

mm
sole:
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
After Bermuda—page 48
Wednesday, April 17, 1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
|GH I'HAM MOTE, one of the most beautiful and - best known
1 moated houses in England, is situated four miles south-east of
Sevehoaks, in Kent. >
Part of Ightham -Mote dates from the reign of Edward 111
(1327-137-7)when it was 'built .by Sir Richard Cawne, but its
architecture is of several periods. The large hall, kitchen and crypt
belong to the fourteenth* century. Late. Tudor work is represented
in the chapel, which was probably built between l- r »2O and 1527 in
the reign of Henry ‘VIII, ..The banqueting hall, with oriel window,
looks out on to the large'square courtyard. The drawing room, built
in Kill by Sir William Selby, occupies the whole of the upper
floor, north of the Tower.
During its long history Ightham (pronounced Eyctam) has had
many owners, including Sir John Allen, who was twice Lord Mayor
of London during the reign of Henry VIII,
The nearby village, a cluster of timber-framed houses, is one
of the most attractive, villages in England.. It is dominated by the
fifteenth-century church with a lofty tower. The nave dates from
Norman times and the aisles were added, in the' early fifteenth
century. The church is noted for its magnificent brasses, A notable
monument is that of Dame Dorothy Selby (d. 1641), wife
of Sir William Selby, who has been credited with a part in the
discovery of the Gunpowder Plot. She is reputed to have deciphered
a letter, illegibly written, warning Lord Mounteagle of the intended
plot. On the monument is depicted the sinister figure of Guy Fawkes,
cloaked and hatted, making his way, lantern in hand, to the cellars
of the Houses of Parliament.
Ightham is also associated with Benjamin Harrison, the village
grocer, who gained renown as a great scholar and antiquary and
whose work led to the discovery of flint tools used in Britain a
million years ago.
No. 345: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppeli .
IGHTHAM MOTE, KENTISH BEAUTY SPOT


EARN REGULARLY
AT HOME. IN SPARE TIME.
WRITING
SHOWCARDS & TICKETS
for Shops, Businesses, etc.-
A STOTT TRAINING
will enable you to do this. Anyone
can learn. Drawing ability is not
essential. Read what this student
wrote recently:— “I shall certainly
recommend this Course to others, as
it is an excellent way of earning at
home, and has already paid for my
Course.”
Send for Stott’s Free Prospectus.
inn Russell St., Melliourns ; 1-19 St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Urtsbane ; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., l'erth.
m CVT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
|'< STOTT’S Plp:is<> «purl me, without iinv olill
action, full particulars of your Showcard and
Ticketwriting Course.
MV IS AME
addkess
S.B. 857 AGS
BOOKHCNTER, Bo* 2671, 0.P.0., Sydney.
A service lor reader*. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it ior you— fiction, text boon,
biography, history, etc. Moderate lee only il iue-
cesaful.
The Red Page
NOT FOR GOLD MEDALS
It is extremely pleasing to meet, in
the latest “Southerly” (No. 4, 1956), a
critic who knows how to review an
anthology.
The proper course for a critic invited
to comment on anthologies of bush-
ballads or of Australian or New
Zealand poetry is not, as so many
reviewers have lately done in England,
America and Australia, to seize the
occasion to wipe-out the entire body of
poetry concerned; but, having granted
the premises of the anthology—that
this is a collection of ballads, or of
Australian or New Zealand poetry —to
say whether or not the book satisfac-
torily fulfils its purposes.
Has the editor done his job fairly
within his chosen limits, with
sound judgment? Who’s in; who’s
out?
These are the questions a
conscientious reviewer must ask him-
self before, if he is sure he has the
capacity to go so far, he proceeds to
wider conclusions. He is not asked to
judge the poetry of a nation; he is
asked to judge an anthology. As Mr.
S. E. Lee puts it in “Southerly.”
reviewing the Oxford anthologies of
Australian and New Zealand verse:—
To adapt a thought of Dylan
Thomas’s, quoted by Miss Wright
in the opening sentence of her
introduction [to A Book of A ustralian
Verse], nations do not compete for
gold-medals in the field of poetry.
Therefore I shall refrain from
presuming to judge the relative
worth of the poetry contained in
each volume, limiting myself rather
to an evaluation of each as an
anthology supposedly representative
of what is best in its country’s
verse .... whether the poets are
represented by their best and most
typical work; whether proportion
has been shown by allocating most
space to the best poets; and
whether each poem is of sufficient
merit to warrant inclusion in an
important anthology.
Unless he is extremely knowledgeable
—much more so than any overseas
critic of Australian or New Zealand
poetry is likely to be—the critic who
attempts to go further than this and
compare nation against nation, passing
judgment upon the anthology as if it
fully and accurately represented all that
has been written in the country, is
likely to go very much astray.
Suppose, for an example, some
reasonably intelligent Eskimo,
unacquainted with the general body
of English literature, were asked to
criticise Falgrave’s G o Hen Treasury
as a representative English anthology.
It does not contain “The Canterbury
Tales.” “The Faerie Queene,” “Mac-
beth,” “Paradise Lost,” “The Prelude,”
“Don Juan,” “Epipsychidion,” “The
Ring and the Book” or “Murder in
the Cathedral” —how could our Eskimo
possibly have any idea of the full
weight and splendor of English poetry
outside the anthology?
Anthologies are, at best, shop-
windows; and the critic needs to be
very sure he knows all that is hidden
in the shop before he attempts to draw
general conclusions from them. I am
not suggesting that some Australian
Shakspeare waits for recognition ; but
I do suggest that no critic can properly
judge McCrae or Shaw Neilson from
snippets in an anthology: both created
small lyrical “worlds,” of the very finest
distillation, which the critic must see
as a-whole.
I am not sure that Mr. Lee has a
wide enough knowledge of New
Zealand poetry fully to be able to cope
with the task he has set himself. I
should hesitate to claim such a know-
ledge myself; but I note with some
awe that the editors of this volume,
Robert Chapman and Jonathan
Bennett, have been able to persuade
themselves that Thomas Bracken’s
celebrated “Not Understood” was
inadmissible; and, with more certainty
of regret, I see that they have left out
a good many minor New Zealand
poems I have cherished in memory for
years: Eve Langley’s “Death of Te
Omeka,” J. R. Hastings’s “The Green
Field,” Gloria Rawlinson’s “Tuatara”
and Don McDonald’s “Upon the
benchy hillside.” And, incredibly, they
have not one poem by Arnold Wall.
While agreeing with Mr. Lee that
the New Zealand volume should have
been “reduced by from fifty to a
hundred pages,” I am inclined to think
that the editors, and the critic with
them, have skipped too hastily from
a few representative early figures to
the very lively group of today: whereby
the moderns are given undue promin-
ence and some worth-while figures
outside the Caxton Press coterie
neglected. I am. suspicious of all
anthologies or criticisms in which it is
discovered that the present is the one
period in which poets have really
learned how to write (or painters to
paint): that is the illusion of each
succeeding generation.
Nor do 1 agree with all that Mr.
Lee has to say about Judith Wright’s
Australian anthology. 1 suppose one
must concede that more O’Dowd would
have been, if not exactly desirable, at
least advisable; as certainly 1 agree
that there is too much Bayiebridge, a
writer whom Miss Wrignt haci the
misfortune, after others, to “discover.”
But if I should not care, on the grounds
that poets are not competing for gold-
medais, outright to disagree witn bus
dictum that “Not many responsible
critics would care to rate David
Campbell, William Hart-Smith or
Mary Fullerton above A. D. Hope,” I
would at least, for the present, rank
them equal—very few poets in Aus-
tralia have written anything that lasts
so well as Hart-Smilh’s “Christopher
Columbus.”
I cannot, again, altogether agree with
Mr. Lee in his compliments to the
editors on their lists of “sources” —in
both anthologies the acknowledgments
to “The Bulletin” are incomplete and
inaccurate.
But, apart from these points of
agreement and disagreement, the great
value of Mr. Lee’s lucid and temperate
little essay is—to repeat —that he
understands the principle upon which
an anthology should be reviewed; and
when he proceeds, after his examina-
tion, to such general conclusions as
that the best of the New Zealand
poetry “will bear comparison with
anything being written in English
today,” he has thoroughly established
his credentials.
Which is more than can be said for
any of the overseas reviewers who
have so irresponsibly attacked these
two anthologies. One of the English
attacks, incidentally, a supposedly
responsible literary magazine’s view of
Australian poetry as the work of “a
lot of good cobbers having a go at
poetry,” is likely, judging by the con-
troversy it has aroused, to become
something of a landmark in Australian
literary history.
Douglas Stewart.
(Red Page continued on page 66)


UJ
U 4
UJ
UJ
wsSf W"
Behind the FINE ARTS Pavilion
I
ÜBULAR
STEEL
GARAGE
or SHED
Made to any size light
but sturdy—2 men can erect
framework in half hour.
HUGH-FLY
CAR PORT
The economical way to cover your
car—can be erected easily—can be
used as sun porch when required.
*
Also Manufacturers of HIGH-FLY' Tubular Steel Tank Stands • HIGH-FLY
Automatic Poultry Feeders • HIGH-FLY Stock Ramps • HIGH-FLY Rotary
Clothes Holsts • HIGH-SPAN Tubular Steel Buildings of all Types, Industrial
and Rural.
MACSHIEL RURAL ACCOMMODATION
FOR PARTICULARS AND QUOTES FOR BUILDINGS
OR RURAL ACCOMMODATION MAIL THIS
mam
• Prefabricated steel.
• Insulated against heat and cold in roof and walls.
• Proof against fire, white ants, dry rot and
vermin.
• Approved by Dept, of Labour and Industry.
To
CLEVELAND ENGINERING & WELDING CO. PTY. LTD.,,
Daking House, Rawson Place, Sydney.
Or
CLEVELAND ENGINEERING (TAMWORTH) PTY. LTD.,
145 Bridge Street, Tamworth.
Or
CLEVELAND ENGINEERING (CHARLEVILLE) PTY. LTD.,
Box 180, Charleville, Queensland.
Please send me particulars of Buildings.
NAME
ADDRESS
Type and Size Req’d


The Bulletin
Vol. 78—No. 4027
Wednesday, April 17, 1957
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
POWER VERSUS GABBLE
THE year 1957 is a borderline year
between World War II and the nuclear
era: the year in which it will be
proved whether the United Nations
organisation will live or die ; the year
in which nuclear weaponing and power
reached definitely into ordinary civil
and military life.
One would expect it to be a year of
important and eloquent utterances and
original thinking, but among the so-
called leaders of the world it has
mostly produced shuffling humbug,
evasion and surrender in the inter-
national sphere.
The views of President Eisenhower
and Mr. Dulles are buried in
d o u b 1 e-talk and platitudes. The
Cabinet in the U.K. has mostly left
the back-benches to do the plain speak-
ing on its side of the House. There
are no lucid successors to Lenin and
Stalin at the Kremlin, from which
everything seems to emerge in a palpi-
tating mist of combined vodka and
malice.
Australia has a better Parliamentary
record on its Government’s side. The
debate on foreign affairs in the
Federal Parliament has introduced
more plain-speaking and clear-think-
ing than in any other legislature in the
world over the past few months, and is
worth a wider audience than it seems to
get.
Mr. Menzies, Mr. Casey and Dr.
Cameron, who made one of the most
sensible speeches of the debate, have
all said clearly what the long-hairs
and humbugs and pressure-groups of
the United Nations would prefer to
have been left unsaid, and exposed the
illogicalities and evasions of the
situation without mercy.
There can be no misunderstanding
about Mr. Menzies’s assertion that “he
supposed the U.N. intervention in the
Middle East was a success because
fighting had ended, but Israel had been
made the victim of double standards.”
There is no denying the truth of his
vivid reconstruction in a sentence of
all the busybodying of Mr. Hammar-
skjoeld and his queer crew of hench-
men over the past six months: “The
U.N. has been bowing to Colonel
Nasser with whispering humbleness
and Israel has no protection.” Many
people in the highest places apart from
the Prime Minister must be unable to
see that this is a “triumph for inter-
national justice,” but they are very
backward in saying so.
Mr. Casey as the official spokesman
of the Government seems to be unique
among Foreign Ministers in having a
programme to deal with the situation.
He says, rightly, that the “present
dramatic turmoil” in the Middle East is
“based very largely on racial antipathy
of the Arabs against the Jews, rather
than on any political or economic
disagreement,” and that the
arrogance of Nasser and his pressure-
group of the Afro-Asian satellite bloc
is given strength by the intervention of
the Kremlin, still engaged in its age-old
drive towards the warm waters of the
Indian Ocean—a matter, incidentally,
which led to the break-up of the great-
hearted friendship which had developed
between Hitler and Dr. Evatt’s pen-
friend Molotov in 1940. Casey is clear
in his mind that the situation, in view
of its racial and religious implications,
is “unlikely to yield to any quick and
easy resolution or form of words
devised by a majority of the United
Nations” —“You cannot submit a
deeply ingrained emotional complex
to logical political treatment.”
He calls for a “cooling-off period,”
to be followed by the use of “the good
offices of one or more of the great
Powers .... under benevolent but
powerful chairmanship, to achieve “a
permanent solution, and perhaps the
prospect of appreciable economic aid
when such a solution has been
reached.”
The key word, in fact, seems to be
“powerful.” Dr. Cameron amplified
this by saying that “there can be no
real solution in the Middle East unless
it is based on adequate power”:—
In whose hands does power 1ie?....
Not in the hands of the United Nations
Organisation, which is weak, but in the
hands of great nations such as the
United States. And great countries have
great responsibilities.
Mr. Casey, too, holds that the great
nations as distinct from U.N. must be
“prepared to exercise power, even in a
military sens£, to ensure that the situa-
tion in the Middle East and elsewhere
does not finally lead to a world war.”
And he says further that “it was not
envisaged that these responsibilities
should be submerged in the voting of
80 countries in the General Assembly.”
The Australian Government’s view
is “that there is a compelling need,
inside the United Nations and outside
it, for the great democratic Powers to
assert joint leadership directed
towards peace and stability which is
entirely consistent with the Charter of
the United Nations.”
Dr. Evaft, on the other hand, holds
that the Middle Eastern trouble is due
to the internecine wars of greedy
capitalist monopoly and could be
settled by forcibly (it would have to
be forcibly) internationalising oil—
that is, in practical effect, by giving
Russia access to it. But Nasser and the
Arabs must not be forced to behave.
That would be aggression, and in fact
was aggression when Britain and
France used power to stop the Israel-
Nasser war and prevent Israel wiping-
out Nasser.
As Dr. Cameron pointed out, how-
ever, it is paradoxical that internation-
alisation that would give the free
world a renewed hand in the . manage-
ment of the Suez Canal (which is just
as much a world facility as> oil) is
anathema to Dr. Evatt. That strange
plumage - changer, whose speeches
included a tirade against Fascists whom
he chides the free world for not
destroying, prefers to leave the canal in
the untrammelled control of the worst
example of Fascism the world has seen
since Hitler—the Egyptian Govern-
ment, which gained it by the brutal
force which Dr. Evatt pretends to
abjure.
What emerges from the opposite
sides of the discussion is that whatever
the objective, and however people like
Khrushchev and Dr. Evatt may give
lip-service to the potency of gabble,
they admit, when it comes to practical
politics, that power, and the use of
force if necessary, are the essentials.
Most of the small Governments which
led the hunt against the “aggression” of
Britain and France in Egypt were
created either by threat of military
force or actual bloodshed.
The police, whether national or
international, would be a hopeless farce
without power and firm use of it when
necessary.
On Other Pages
Page
Plain English 6,7, 56
Political Points 12, 13
“Heth’s” Page 17
Finance 20, 21, 22, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31
Sundry Shows 24, 26
What Holds Queensland Back 32
Short-story 34
Low’s Autobiography 36
Uncabled Additions 48, 49, 50, 51
The Other Fellow’s Mind ... 52, 53, 54, 55
The Man on the Land .... 58, 59, 60, 61


THE YOUNG LADY OF MARTIN-PLACE


PLAIN ENGLISH
Concessions for Britons
Britain’s new Budget follows a series of
by-elections in all of which there was
some drift from the Conservatives, or else
the abstention ol sizeable blocks of voters
on each side.
Most of the concessions which are
the main Budgetary features are aimed
at the average citizen. The removal
of the shilling “Suez” tax on petrol
is the item with the most direct and far-
reaching results. It brings the price
of petrol back to ss. 2d. a gallon, of
which nearly half is direct fuel-tax.
There is a mite for the housewife, and
particularly the young housewife, in the
cuts of from 15 p.c. to 30 p.c. on floor-
coverings and certain other household
furnishing needs.
Removal of taxes on “live” sports and
on pictures goes right into Labor's voting-
field, and there is a sop for the old in
tax-relief for over-65’s, though not
as much as what the old grumble at in
Australia.
The Briton bears a backbreaking
burden of taxation, very largely without
a murmur. In income- and capital-taxes,
taxes on outlay (entertainments, betting,
petrol, alcohol and purchase-tax —plus
national insurance contributions, rates
and other imposts), the British popula-
tion of all ages is mulcted of about £llO
a year a head.
Theoretically, taxation policy over the
post-war years has been to hold down
consumer demand for both services and
goods as a check on inflation. At one
stage, five or six years ago. Budgets were
designed as a check on investment as
well.
The feature of the Budget of greatest
interest to Australia was that touching
profits in overseas trading. Home-
controlled companies trading overseas
will be exempt from tax on profits earned
abroad —though dividends so earned
won’t be—but shipping, banking and
insurance companies won't benefit. This
concession will need further clarification
before even the U.K. and Australian
tax authorities are sure of its implica-
tions. On its face, it seems designed to
make the profits of British companies
come home, but this will not always be
easy.
\
The Banking Set-up
[From CHi>b<*rra]
Those hailing the new banking reforms
as a victory for small-“i” liberalism and
another nail in the Country-party coffin
should tread warily.
The Country party has suffered a blow
in that it was opposed to any alteration
in the banking set-up, but several aspects
the Prime Minister has left in abeyance
suggest that the blow isn’t nearly so
grievous as some observers believe. The
rural credits department is to remain
with the central bank.
Only the final decision on the Cpm-
monweaith Savings Bank, the Mortgage
Bank, the Industrial Finance Department,
and the details of the reserve-deposits
system will gauge the actual degree of
loss the C.P. has suffered.
Central-bank control of the extensive
savings-bank funds is the last ditch on
which the Country party is making its
stand.
If Dr. Coombs, who remains governor
of the central bank, continues to control
the £740-million accumulated funds of
the savings-bank, the C.P., advocate of
the tight Treasury grip, will be satisfied.
And the big argument in favor of
central-bank control is the necessity for
that bank to seek «avings-bank assistance
regularly to support loans and the bond-
market.
Although the substitution of a system
of reserve deposits for the present special-
accounts procedure can be regarded as
another, win for the private trading-banks,
they won't be happy until they hear the
actual details of what control the central
bank will maintain over their liquid
assets.
Naturally, the measure of reform
decided upon is still painful to the C.P.,
but one sobering thought is that, because
the reforms neither meet all the desires
of the separationists nor alienate the C.P.,
there is a good chance that the new
system will operate to the national
advantage.
That the Government appears to be
achieving these reforms without arousing
acute political controversy is a tribute to
clear-thinking on both sides of the
coalition.
■» 4
Bolte Sits Firmly
Despite predictions by Sir Herbert
Hyland, leader of the Country party, that
an election is likely in Victoria soon, the
Bolte-Rylah combination gave every in-
dication of being solidly entrenched when
the autumn sittings resumed.
As Bolte claimed a few days before the
opening last November, the Government
has achieved just on all it purposed when
it went to the country, and in less than
two years. It has been lifted by Bolte
from a tailpiece to Parliament of 11
members to an absolute majority of one
in a House of 65, with no sign of its
popularity waning; and the Country
party, which could embarrass the Gov-
ernment only in the Legislative Council,
might find itself even more insignificant
in the Assembly if an election was forced.
One of the soundest yardsticks to
measure the strength of a Government
at Spring-street is its dealings with the
press. The confidence of the current
regime is exemplified by an open-handed
attitude; weak Administrations, fearful
of additional criticism, are usually reti-
cent. Bolte enjoys an excellent press.
He is lucky with his team. There has
been no evidence of any jealousy about
portfolios, or backbiting, and Arthur
Rylah, his Attorney-General and deputy,
is a prodigious worker and the driving-
force of the team ; he is less easygoing
than Bolte.
He travels by train so that he will have
time to study the reports he takes along;
on country trips his schedule is timed to
the minute, and secretaries pick him up
en route: Even his meal-breaks on these
trips are timed.
The Labor Opposition is weak.
There is, within the Opposition, great
impatience with John Gain’s leadership,
now getting old-fashioned and nostalgic.
But his sincerity and solid achievements
during his terms as Premier have en-
trenched him with swinging voters who
wouldn’t tolerate the flamboyant Labor-
ites of the northern States; and there
is no one within his party to equal his
political tonnage, which is also greatly to
Bolte’s advantage in politics as they exist
now.
The Import Problem
[.From. “Turner,’’ Canberra]
The suggestion that Cabinet was
seriously divided on relaxation of import*
restrictions (B. 3/4/’57) is absurd to any-
one who knows anything about Cabinet
procedures. Import-restriction was
adopted as Government policy by 21
Ministers. Last July those same Ministers
agreed on relaxations, and decided on a
ceiling of £7OO million for the current
financial year. They decided recently
that further relaxations were necessary
in accordance with the principles adopted.
Therefore they discussed the most
appropriate figure for 1957-58, taking into
account all relevant economic circum-
stances and trends.
As a basis of discussion two depart-
ments submitted proposals. The Trade
Department obviously based its estimates
on the hope that seasons would remain
favorable, overseas export prices would
be maintained and Nasser would remain
docile. The Treasury, which receives the
blame if Government policies bring
unfavorable repercussions, naturally
adopted a more conservative role. In
any case, informed people say that the
difference between the two estimates sub-
mitted was nearer to £25 million than to
the £4O million quoted by the Canberra
correspondent, and in.a guess for 1957-
58 over a field which involves more than
£7OO million a difference of £25 million is
comparatively insignificant.
No experienced Minister would
jeopardise his position or his reputation
by insisting or rigid acceptance of mere
estimates when he knows that Cabinet is
united in principle and is only concerned
with the most appropriate figure. Fadden
has broken the Australian record for his
term as Treasurer and has probably
broken the world record, despite
criticisms and attacks on his policies over
a long period. At least he can be credited
with experience, and it must be conceded
that a man who has retained the confi-
dence of his own party in leadership for
16 years and of various Governments as
Treasurer for more than eight cannot
be the fool implied by the Canberra
correspondent.
To be fair to all parties, it must be
recognised that composite Cabinets rarely
.divide on party lines, even on major issues
like banking and appreciation of the
pound. In the latter contests it is well
known that, regardless of the merits of


the opposing arguments, Liberal as well
as Country-party Ministers sided with
Fadden in the process of seeking a
policy binding on the Government as a
whole.
Chickens to Roost
[From “Ek Dum"]
Last week Mr. Dulles and President
Eisenhower were both engaged
in strange double-talk, after all
their assurances about the “right of
innocent passage” through the Gulf of
Akaba, which the United Nations had
declared years ago to be legal passage,
and with which the Egyptians were
ordered not to interfere. Mr. Dulles sud-
denly remarked that perhaps the Inter-
national Court might be asked to give a
ruling on the question.
This seems amazing in the face of the
fact that President Eisenhower had said
as far back as February 20 that “we
should not assume that... .Egypt will
prevent Israel from using the Suez Canal
or the Gulf of Akaba,” and that “any
attempt to do so must be dealt with
firmly by the United Nations.” More-
over, there was an earlier statement of
February 11 in which Mr. Dulles made it
clear that if there was any appeal to the
International Court the onus for it must
1)6 on the aggressors against substantive
U.N. action. (Saudi Arabia is now assert-
ing territorial rights in the Gulf of
Akaba.)
At present British, French, Dutch and
other countries have been warned by their
Governments to avoid the Suez Canal.
The U.N. Emergency Force has
now moved its field headquarters into
Gaza, and Mr. Hammarskjoeld has met
the force’s “seven-nation advisory com-
mittee,” which has “noted with satisfac-
tion the progress so far made in prac-
tical arrangements for the functioning of
the force in the Gaza strip.” The com-
mittee consists of delegates the majority
of whom are Brazilians, Colombians,
Indians and Pakistanis.
General Burns, the U.N.E.F. com-
mander, has just advised the Israelis to
put up barbed-wire, with mines in
between, to stop the Egyptian com-
mandoes raiding. This seems to belie
Mr. Hammarskjoeld’s conviction about
the effectiveness of the force.
However, the force has achieved some-
thing, according to official U.N. hand-
outs: “Advance orders for the stamps
issued on April 8 have already been so
heavy that the U.N. Postal Administra-
tion has placed with the printers in
London an additional order for two-
million 3-cent and one-million 8-cent
stamps.” The design depicts “the circular
badge worn on the arm-bands and
helmets” of the force, no doubt to sym-
bolise the circumlocutory habits of Mr.
Hammarskjoeld and the facing-both-ways
attitude of his instructor, Mr. Dulles.
Middle Eastern chickens are steadily
coming home to roost. Syria was Nasser’s
jackal, but it is quickly coming round to
an understanding of what Russian help
means. In Jordan, having kicked-out the
friendly Glubb and held an election
which put power temporarily in the hands
of pro-Communists and at the disposal of
Egypt, young Hussein is discovering that
he has spawned a monster, apart from
losing the substantial British subsidy. It
looks as if he may in time find himself
a refugee in England, where he was
educated, if the Arab Legion, British-
trained, doesn’t stick to him.
After Salisbury
[From Westminster]
Lord Salisbury’s resignation, which
caused some observers to forecast a
precipitate decline of the Macmillan
Government, is now seen in a less
unfavorable light. It is even being argued
that, so far from debilitating the Prime
Minister’s strength, the resilience which
he has shown has added to his stature.
For Lord Salisbury’s putative influence
was almost mystical: elder-statesman,
power behind the scenes, traditional High
Tory, kingmaker and a Cecil, too. He
resigned, and the Prime Minister batted
not an eyelid!
In its internal affairs, the Conservative
party is notoriously and distinctly U,
with never any exhibition of personal
envy or acrimony and, emphatically, no
washing of dirty linen in public. Since
this attribute, amounting almost to a
virtue, is the direct consequence of having
people of the calibre of Lord Salisbury
in its inner councils, the whole story
behind his resignation won’t be heard.
But there are significant pointers. Why
did he, after supporting the Suez policy,
resign over such a comparatively trivial
issue as Makarios? And why didn’t
others follow him?
The surmise is that he has become
impatient with the Macmillan line of
policy, vexed because of lack of
enthusiasm for reform of the Lords, and
. dismayed, like so many of the older
generation, at Britain’s loss of world
power. And, since his rather formidable
hauteur denied him personal popularity,
it is unlikely that his action will provoke
the backbenchers into rebellion. Nor
would he wish it to.
The Qantas Strike
In considering the case of the Qantas
pilots and their strike, the comparatively
short term during which an officer flying
large aircraft can be employed, and the
need to provide for his later years, has
to be taken into account; but he has
superannuation and insurance which
anybody in any profession at any level
would envy. Also, every year flying be-
comes safer, responsibilities of individuals
less onerous, and safety routines more
mechanised and electronised. -) Further,
the active life of the aircraft-captain is
being lengthened every decade, and the
types of flying extended in which he can
engage for years after he has deserted the
passenger-lines. And, with the growth of
air-travel and freightage into big busi-
ness, the descent of an aerial captain
from his pilot’s cabin doesn’t mean the
end of his professional career. A variety
of appointments are open to him.
Pilots in Qantas service numbered
245; Qantas employees nearly 1000
aircrew and 6000 others. They range
from probationary officers (who are paid
about £1350 a year) to senior check-
captains whose salary is £3BOO. These
rates were fixed by the Arbitration Court
in 19541 The company has offered a range
of increases, maximum £354, which
would have given senior captains total
rises amounting to £9OO since the award
was originally made. A strike of officers
threatens the livelihood of all under them.
But the company’s offers were rejected
out of hand and a sort of Ned Kelly
ultimatum was issued that increases,
which worked out at £747 for first officers
and £IB4O for senior check-captains, be
paid—or else.
The basis of these demands has noth-
ing to do with the economics of
the Australian air-industry, the develop-
ment of which is something of which the
country can be vastly proud, but is
based on the fact that pilots of some
other countries draw more than Aus-
tralians.
If this principle were accepted in Aus-
tralian arbitration (which the pilots have-
professed to adopt as the means of
having their, wage regulated) every
unionist in Australia, and especially every
man whose work takes him overseas,
might reasonably demand pay according
to United States or other international
standards which have no relationship to
the Australian economy.
Qantas is justified in making a riposte
as drastic as the pilots’ own action.
Stopping Wester-evaporation
Earlier official reports from the Com-
monwealth Scientific and Industrial
Research Organisation of encouraging
results from the Mansfield process of
saving water-evaporation by spreading a
film of cetyl-alcohol over the surface
from a raft have now been supplemented
by an official announcement of the suc-
cessful application of the Mansfield prin-
ciple to large, rough, windy stretches of
water.
The new means of spreading the cetyl-
alcohol over great areas is by means of
flexible pipes, and the convincing test,
at Stephen’s Creek Reservoir, Broken
Hill, prevented the evaporation of 200-
million gallons'of water (or six weeks of
Broken Hill’s summer water-consump-
tion) in a 14-week test.
Mansfield’s discovery will save at least
37 per cent, of any storage area. The
raft process has been on the market for
some months. The process for the larger
bodies of water is still being improved.
It isn’t readily available, but the young
scientist, William Mansfield, who works
in the C.5.1.R.0.’s division of industrial
chemistry informs The Bulletin that he
will give what help he can to urgent
requests for information and assistance.
One of his greatest handicaps is the
same old one —when it comes to scientific
research —lack of staff. It is a practical
example of the scientist’s struggle in Aus-
tralia, mentioned recently by Sir lan
Clunies Ross, the C.5.1.R.0. director, in
his plea for more science students.
(Plain English continued on page 56)


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
'TOUCHING the Queen’s visit to Paris,
for once I believe word of the
rapture which the dailies are reporting.
I was in Paris just after the Queen had
visited Australia and there was hardly
a soul I talked to, amongst waiters, taxi-
drivers, landladies, actors, writers and
officials, who didn’t ask me the question,
had I seen her. I had? —ah, rapture!
It was about the only subject that did
warm their cold, froggy hearts ; and I
formed the theory that they have never
forgiven themselves for guillotining Marie
Antoinette —sacred and adored relics of
whom ar? everywhere in Paris —and that
they still long for a queen of their
own.—“S.”
+> *X* ♦>
“Slendar”: It took a while to realise
that she wanted information about birth-
control, because her inquiry was for
“child-guidance.”
❖ ♦♦♦ *X*
“Carlyle”: The “Horsham Times”
(Vic.) informs me that the neighboring
shire of Dunmunkle’s newly selected
shire-engineer has accepted the appoint-
ment “subject to his wife's approval.”
First man I’ve ever heard publicly admit
it.
❖ ❖ ❖
“W.P.T.”: It’s, common enough to
see firms styled “Blank and Sons,” but
I've never yet heard of a firm called
“Blank and Daughters.” Is it because men
do not take their daughters into business
or is there some legal reason? Nearest
I’ve seen to it was a small shop in one
of Sydney’s western suburbs where a
business was conducted by “The Four
Daughters.”
*l* *t* *i*
“Lorna Doone”: I can back-up “Old
Opencut” (B. 3/4/’57) with his remarks
on garish lounge-suites. In our emporium
I viewed a ghastly monstrosity, then re-
marked to the assistant, “How people
do love autumn-tones! Whoever’d buy
that?”. “Buy it?” he queried. “Lissen,
we don’t even have to sell ’em, they just
walk out of here!”
*X*
“Wusslean”: How does an object which
in its natural surroundings is entirely
bereft of intrinsic beauty acquire the
charm of an objet d’art in a drawing-
room? Broken, weatherworn scraps from
the beach become “driftwood-composi-
tions,” trailing bits of creeper become
“wall-decoration.” Mrs. W. has suc-
cumbed to creeper—a length of dark-
green ivy adorns our lounge-room. It
has no odor, produces no flowers, and
apart from putting forth a couple of tiny-
leaves has shown no sign of life or
attempt to please the beholder, but Mrs.
W. thinks the world of it. Why do they
spend most of their working-week sweep-
ing rubbish out, and then devote their
spare time to bringing it in?
+Z+
“Zake”: While agreeing that the Anti-
Vivisection Society should be invoked
on behalf of poor, suffering oysters
speared on the forks of junketing oyster-
conventioneers (B. 10/4/'57), 1 fail to see
the need for R.S.P.C.A. intervention
simply because the oysters were en-
tombed alive. They slid into the same
repositories as the beer and sauterne with
which they were washed down —any self-
respecting oyster would take pride in so
glorious a drowning.
“Narumee”: Lord Altrincham, who
resigned from his office in the Victoria
League because of the alleged color-bar
at the League’s London hostel, was
referred to in the Melbourne “Sun” as
“An old Estonian Conservative peer.”
Maybe a Balt from the Blue, like?
♦l* ❖ <*
“0.W.W.”: Paid 15s. for a seat to see
an overseas touring company in Welling-
ton (N.Z.) Grand Opera House. When
the curtain rose, a damsel sitting next to
me nudged her boy-friend in the ribs
and loudly wailed: “You never told me
it was a stage- show! ”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Emtee”: Reading has been breeding
some queer habits among readers out our
way. One fellow regularly souvenirs a
copy of. a health-magazine from a news-
agent’s counter, returning it some days
GUILT OF THE GINGERBREAD
“Mrs. P. Chard, winner of Sydney Show's
prize for the most original iced cake, said she
had iced a block of balsa-wood, as the rules
allow, because the icing took two months,
during which time a cake would have
deteriorated.”
The prize for the Show’s most original
cake
Has gone to the ice on a balsa-wood
fake,
Though what’s new in this is not easy
to see—
They all taste like sawdust to me,
To me,
They all taste like sawdust to me!
The sponge for the standard iced-cake,
I have found,
Is bought in a cakeshop for sixpence a
pound;
Wives ice it up nicely for afternoon-tea,
But it all tastes like sawdust to me,
To me,
It all tastes like sawdust to me!
So ... a cake made of wood : what’s
original in this?
Well, the lady’s admission decidedly is,
Enabling all husbands to say, openly,
“It all tastes like sawdust to me,
To me,
It all tastes like sawdust to me!’’
N.S.VV.
S WILLIAM.


later by post. Another pinched my neigh-
bor's evening paper, causing him
to spend a fruitless ten-minutes looking
for it in the dark. Wasn’t until next
morning he found, instead, four pennies
stacked on a ledge near the paper-
receptacle.
*:« ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ i
“Earache”: During a much-advertised
ocean-cruise within Australian waters
courses were served with a flourish of
silverware and much Sirring and
Madaming. Two bright young things
were overwhelmed with attention. Last
day, ship back in port, passengers’ last
luncheon in progress, the young steward
was in obvious haste to get ashore;
“Sirs” and “Madams” reduced to a
minimum ; bright young things ordered,
in muffled tones, to “Get stuck into it.”
❖ »> ❖
“H.A.L.”: It wasn't only the Tsarist
jail-bird who went dressed in trousers
with legs of different colors (B. 27/ 3/ ’57).
Many of Australia’s early colonists went
dressed in “magpies” —suits of trousers
and jacket with one side bright-yellow
and the other black. But if a man was
trying to get away a couple of magpie-
suits were taken apart and one black half
was joined to the other, making an all-
biack outfit. America issued suits of
pi .son-clothing with stripes of grey and
black running horizontally, which de-
feated everyone until a bright lad thought
of black dye.
“Phillipa”: A Sydney restaurant serves
chicken-in-the-basket —very good if your
stomach’s empty, wallet not. Ordering
for two sets a problem: should one re-
quire “Two chickens-in-the-baskets,”
thereby implying each gets two, or “Two
chickens-in-the-basket,” making it plain
you w'ant both of ’em in the same
receptacle? Perhaps the solution is simply
to ask for “two basketed-chickens,” but
only if you can say it clearly.
»:< *> *
“S :s Were A”: “Abi Tonus” (B.
27/ j 7) makes quite a chapter on the
cleansing of the bagpipes. But back in
the olden, golden days of Kalgoorlie,
when Irish whisky sold at 7s. the quart-
bottle, Sandy McAffer did it much
more simply. After a preliminary rinse-
through of salt-and-water, Sandy next
poured in a cupful of the dew of the
bogs. Nor was the guid whusky entirely
wasted, for considerable of it cahie out
the other end . . . And, mon, were the
pipes fine to blow for a week after the
sousing!
❖ * •>
“Bo”: It is gratifying that' in the
nationwide search for Australia’s five
best-dressed men to be conducted by the
Federated Clothing Industries Council
. the goats, as it were, will be separated
from the sheep, and politics will be one
of the five groups judged. The wearer of
a plum-colored suit, well-lined, with an
unobtrusive cut, should be a monte for
the Oscar.
“A very ordinary type, really. She's had more kids than husbands."
“Secretary”: When the boss of a Mel-
bourne firm checked the business-report
waiting to be sent to print, he was no
little put out by the paragraph that
read:
During the absence of Mr. J. Snr.,
Mr. J. Jnr. will take over his cuties.
* *!♦
“Ta.bba”: Some irate southern tourist
has expressed in two words his opinion
of North Queensland roads in red
Scotchlite on a signpost which should say
“Bowen,” but which, in the night-
travellers’ headlights, states in fiery
letters: “TO HELL.”
❖ ❖ *>
“Mac Hoots”: The Russians must often
find Tolstoy’s War and Peace strangely
prophetic. Napoleon’s retreat from
Moscow was so like Hitler’s, of course ;
and then take this simple little sentence,
when the soldiers are yarning by the
campfire: “‘I say, that son-of-a-bitch
Petrov has sneaked off, it seems,’ said a
sergeant.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Postscript”: Letter-sorters aren’t
obliged to read addresses on mail-matter
backwards (B. 3/4/’57); they simply
read the country and/or State and/or
town (according to which section of mail
they're sorting) and tests have proved
that these catch the eye more readily at
the extreme bottom. In suburban offices,
letter-carriers only are interested in
streets and street-numbers —they sort or
arrange mail to suit their beats.
*>
“M’Lou”: Some magazines go out
because of no public support, but
evidently there is a deeper-dyed villainy
at work in the publishing-world, some-
thing like the Kiss of Death: contributors
to “Quiz,” the Sydney comic monthly,
have received this circular:
Following the Unfavorable Support
Accorded “Quiz” it has been Decided to
Discontinue Publication.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Q.F.”: The girls of “Sister ElleH’s’*
par. (B. 27/3/’57) were fortunate to get
uniforms, stamped or not. In ’43, we
were tipped from rookie-school to a
Townsville ack-ack station with only
khaki armbands branded “A.W.A.S.”
For three months we flitted about our
duties in civilian shorts. Eventually the
gunners’ eyes ceased to bulge ; but the
inspecting colonel from H.Q. took one
disbelieving look as several dozen pairs
of naked female legs paraded the gun-site,
then jumped the 500yds. to the orderly-
room. “Infernal hill swarming with
women in scanties!” “P-p-pardon, sir,
shorts.” Telephone was all but wrenched
from the wall as the big-shot riposted:
“Bloody short shorts, some of ’em.”
Madam, of A.W.A.S. H.Q., was not
easily intimidated. Uniforms were being
prepared for us, same would be issued in
due course. Good-bye. The colonel had
us marched to the male Q.M.S. and each
issued with an X.O.S. pair of overalls. The
legs ran 18in. or more underfoot ; with
sleeves it was a case of “Look, Ma, no
hands!” and the seats could easily have
accommodated ours, plus a couple of out-
size pumpkins. Forbidden, on pain of
instant court-martial, to alter them by so
much as an inch, shorn of glamor, mere
shapeless bolts of navy material, we
flapped helplessly about our duties, while
the hill resounded with raucous male
guffaws. Echoes eventually reached
Madam. In a trice, we were whisked
the town-billets, and issued with the works
from doovers to hat, khaki fur-felt.


TV/CAKING a pilgrimage to the grave
_ * of Henry Lawson, I had difficulty
in finding it. Inquiries from those in the
cemetery drew: “Never heard of him” ;
“Who was he?” When I did find the
grave I was further depressed—the in-
scription needed attention. Some of those
making capital out of the poet should
attend to this and arrange for signs
directing visitors to the grave, as has
been done in the Uralla cemetery for
“Thunderbolt” the bushranger.—“G’pa.”
♦*4-
“Kesem”: The Queen, it seems, has
been saved an awkward experience during
her visit to France: “French women do
not as a rule drop curstys,” “The
Women's Weekly” advises. Had it been
the redoubtable Queen Bess I, the French
ladies might have heard a few royal
curstys dropped as they should be
dropped.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Croid”: Should you ever have an
urge to have a look at the old home where
you were born, my advice is—don’t!
You’ll find the building much smaller, the
paint peeling off the walls and the noses
broken off the cupids on the cornices.
The once-spacious verandas will be
partitioned-off with fibro into
each occupied by large families of New
“Do you take these Women to be your lawful wedded wives ?”
Australians. The front fence will be at
an angle and the gate hingeless. What is
left of the spreading lawns will be the
remnants of a miniature golf-course
overgrown with weeds.
* * *
“Kelvin”: On the morning of my
young hopeless’s party, my wife had a
ring from the mother of a lad who, by
direction of the host, had been excluded
from the invitation-list: what kind of
rig should her son wear? When my son
returned from a shopping mission his
mother asked: “Why did you change
your mind about inviting Billy Bones?”
The kid hesitated: “Because he gave me
this, and because he promised me another
one tomorrow if I didn’t invite him!”
This was an outsize in black-eyes. Young
Bill was the all the young
hooligans who attended, and although
he instinctively raised his right in the
direction of a fellow-guest once or twice,
it was a relief to see that he never
menaced his host.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Arbee”: Audience interpolations?
During the screening of that frightful
opus “The King and 1” one of the king’s
wives comes to Anna and pleads with
her to go to “he’s Majesty”—“The King
is dying,” she says. Then follows that
long, dramatic pause to let us feel with
Anna the shock of those momentous
words. Down from the gods a bored
voice rolled, “Must have been something
he et.”
❖ *X* ❖
“A 1 Pal”: Ever noticed how some
people take cars for granted when giving
directions? Ted had to visit a Sydney
suburb to inspect chairs for the club-
room. Some oaf told him the place was
“in the first street on your left after you
pass the council chambers.” It was a hot
summer’s day and Ted and his mate were
on Shanks’s pony. Luckily they met a
bloke he knew, outside the chambers,
and went by taxi. As he said later, “It
was the first turn on the left, all right, but
it was about three bloody miles away!”
“Stan”: Noticed a motor-scooter in
Bourke-street, Melbourne, with a paint-
ing of a naked aboriginal girl on the
rear mudguard, and under her the
caption: “A genuine Australian body.”
“Jock”: What’s in a name? The presi-
dent of the Crows Nest (Sydney)
Chamber of Commerce is Ernest E. Tree.
♦I« ♦> *
“Jay-R.”: Last assignment of a
widowed friend, emergency-housekeeper
with the C.W.A., was to care for a
farmer and his three pre-school nippers
whilst Mum collected a further addition.
Driving back from the hospital, Dad’s
favorite, an engaging moppet of four,
snuggled up to the housekeeper: “I like
you,” she said ; and added the generous
rider, “You can sleep with my Daddy
tonight. Only” (wistfully) “if you don’t
really want to, I’d like to.” Things would
have been easier all round, reports Friend,
if Dad’s severe reprimand, plum-purple
countenance and loudly hurried re-
marks had not added 'tension to an
already-embarrassed atmosphere.
TOUJOURS L’AMOUR
“Let the killjoys face it: the drive-ins offer
unexampled scope for love-making. And what's
wrong with that?” —Letter to Sydney daily.
Some canoodle on the beach,
When the sun is at its height;
Lip to lip, bereft of speech,
Lost in amorous delight.
Others seek to grasp Romance
In the slow and dreamy dance,
Or even where the rock-an’-rollin’s
hectic,
As the waxen floor they pound
And they sling each other round
Till they reach the stage of looking
apoplectic.
Many a dart has Cupid fired
In a moon-drenched sylvan glade ;
Tender passions have transpired
From a stroll in fun-arcade.
You can make love on a bike,
At a picnic, on a hike,
Or even up a ladder, if you’re willing.
But if heart you would transfix,
Well, there’s nothing like, the flicks
In which to do your cooing and your
billing.
Long have back-stalls been the shot,
In the very last row, too ;
Overlookers there are not,
Interruptions there are few.
Oh, the darkened fillum-house
May be rated extra-grouse
For cuddle-up purposes, despite the
scoffers.
Inhibitions you may shed.
Yet there’s something to be said
For the advantages the drive-in offers.
To yourselves you’ve got the place.
You’ve a feeling so remote
You might be in outer-space,
Or on some far sea afloat.
And it’s very nice to know,
If with mushy sport you grow
Quite bored and that is something
that could happen —
You can once more look ahead,
And pick up the story-thread
By reaching for the sound-track switch,
and snap on!
n.s.w.
S. W. K.


Tanemahuta
By
DOUGLAS STEWART
Moss, logs, and the supplejack-vines tattooing
The dark still face of the forest; but the track turns
And suddenly you stand before us, vast and shining.
Like a crag of stone, like a tower of mist from the ferns ,
Through the tall trees and into the light like honey,
O mighty Tanemahuta, ambush of Tane,
Tree beyond all the trees ! —the great roots crawling
Far in the dark and buttressed against it like waves,
The shouldering branches shaggy with lichen and kiekie,
The grey bole soaring to the high green cloud of leaves,
So huge a shape it seems outside of Nature,
Past all belief, the huge, still, living creature.
As if, as the Maoris thought, here was a god
(O mighty Tanemahuta, ambush of Tane)-
Who wore this woody flesh, no shadow like a man
But clear in the light, and colossal; a thing so holy
They could but worship, and laid in the shade beneath
Konini bell and the white clematis wreath.
As I have laid mine, O mighty Tanemahuta,
And felt myself no more than a fantail, a leaf
Lost in your shadow ; for in this familiar bush
Where lancewoods leap and rimus grow tall enough
Always you soar too high for thought to climb,
Out of our dark leaf-mould, out of our time,
Into some solitude of the world’s beginning
When the earth dreamed of trees, and trees only,
And kings arose like you, all silent together,
O mighty Tanemahuta, ambush of Tane.
Time’s gone, and its monsters; and you survive;
And while you breathe ho\v many centuries live!
Twelve hundred years you thought on one calm thought
That in your branches sang a sweet green song
Like silent chimes of tuis, and in your bole
Moved year by year more massive and more strong —
One long cool thought of growing into a tree ;
And so will think through all the years to ber.
Who rose, who fell ? Who shook a baby’s rattle
Or shook the world and thought himself important ?
What cities burned in Europe ? What canoes
Came sparkling from Hawaiki over the water ?
Tanemahuta, twelve long centuries,
Had one huge thought, to be the king of trees.
O royal kauri towering above the throng
Of treetops bowed and ferns’ green wings unfurled,
The parasites thicken, the sharp-leaved kiekies crowd
On your great arms that could uphold the world ;
Time’s little teeth are at you and the sky hides
Lightning and wind like blows from rival gods.
Not here, not even in you, stand those vast shapes
For which we hunger, immortal through calm and storm ;
Yet never did life and the power that moves through life
Gather and stand in more majestic form
Than there where you tower in the sunlight like eternity,
O mighty Tanemahuta, ambush of Tane.


POLITICAL POINTS
Casey described Evatt’s foreign policy
as neutralism. Not quite right. The Doc.
has only one policy, at home or abroad
—Evattism.
• •
Seiffert’s protest on Ministerial trips
abroad isn’t the first time the member for
Monaro has taken an independent line
against the bosses of the N.S.W. Labor
party. He was one of four Labor
M.L.A.s refused endorsement in 1950
for allegedly voting against the party-
ticket in a “secret” ballot at a Legislative
Council election. At the next election he
stood for Monaro as an unendorsed Labor
candidate and won. After the poll he
was admitted to caucus on the ground
that he hadn’t opposed an endorsed Labor
candidate. The only reason he hadn’t
done so was that the executive had been
unable to find anyone game enough to
accept endorsement against him.
• •
Victorian Country-party members,
chewing over again Hoilway’s coup in
renaming the Liberals the Liberal-and-
Country-party, at their annual meeting
came up once more with the notion of
suing the Libs, and of making other
threats ; but Jack Hines, of Marnoo, had
a brainwave: “Why not call ourselves the
Country-and-Liberal-party?” he sug-
gested. And then, of course, there would
be the Labor-and-Country-party, and the
Labor atoms and assorted Country
parties. The Country party would really
be bushed.
• •
Questions asked by Darby, M.L.A., in
the N. S. Wales Assembly elicited some
interesting information regarding Sydney
Harbor Bridge finances. Last year’s
surplus of tolls over expenses was
£398,776 —a record. The accumulated
surplus at June 30, 1956, was £1,978,213,
most of which is invested in securities
bearing interest at 4j and 5 per cent.
These funds are to be used to
amortise the debt on the bridge.
There is no intention of reducing the
rates of toll, as this would increase the
period over which tolls must be collected.
The toll charge has not varied since the
opening of the bridge, so in effect users
are now paying less than half the original
value of the charges.
• •
History as simplified by Clyde
Cameron, Labor M.H.R. for Hindmarsh
(S.A.): “It was because Hitler could not
get a job as a papefhanger that he became
the leader of the Nazi party.”
It’s now legal to bake bread in Sydney
between the hours of 10 p.m. on Good
Friday and 6 p.m. on Easter Saturday,
but as the Breadcarters’ Union has
banned deliveries on the Saturday it looks
as though most Sydney folk will have to
make Thursday’s bread last through to
Easter Tuesday.
• •
From the relentlessness with which
Eddie Ward pursues Petrov, one would
think the man had betrayed Australian
secrets, not Russian ones.
e •
Heating of Australian homes by solar
energy was advocated by the retiring
chairman of the Canberra division of the
Institution of Engineers. He said the sun
could provide all the heating needed for
residences in Canberra or elsewhere, a
remark which may surprise those people
in the Southern Tablelands now suffering
from the chilling blasts off the early
winter snow on the Alps. It probably
won’t interest the politicians ; they have
their own steam-heated building and
provide enough hot-air themselves,
anyway.
• •
“Lee”: Don’t tell me the railways
aren’t doing good business. Tasmanian
Railways staff-superintendent Tom
Barnes, in Perth on a wage-claim hearing,
tried to get back to Melbourne by train.
There wasn’t a berth available for weeks;
he went by plane.
• •
Following an announcement by
Nationalist Chinese Minister Dr. Chen,
there’s a move afoot to bring in
Formosan tea —green whole-leaf or the
traditional black —at what amounts to
cut-rates for the housewife. Trade
Minister McEwen has assured Parliament
that import-licences will be forthcoming
if anyone can arrange for shipments of
the tea. A little Chinese lady in Mel-
bourne is doing just that. Retail price
looks like being ss. Id., against 7s. for
blends now sold here.
• • '
Lang’s “Century” couldn’t be more
praiseful of Les Haylen if it was written
by the former editor of the Labor
“Standard.”
• •
“Lobby”: Has the Prime Minister
insulted the United States and Nationalist
China by failing to include a brief visit
to Formosa in his Far East tour? Several
backbenchers say “yes,” but protocol
experts say a visit to Free China would
be out of the question.
Firstly, Menzies was not invited;
secondly, it would not have been diplo-
matic etiquette to solicit an invitation.
Thirdly, a visit might be construed in
South-east Asia and Britain as additional
“proof” that Australia has tied itself
irrevocably to the apron-strings of U.S.
foreign policy.
• •
Joske, Liberal M.H.R. for Balaclava
(Vic.), has introduced a private bill pro-
viding for a Federal divorce law. His
bill more-or-less adopts the majority
view of the States on the various aspects
of divorce. Australian domicile is sub-
stituted for State domicile. If the bill
is passed Joske suggests that it should
come into force next October but that
existing rights under State . laws should
remain in force until the end of 1958.
• o
“Civic”: The 1100 Melbourne public
servants transferring to Canberra from
early 1959 won’t be disappointed with the
standard of housing provided for them.
Houses and flats will be of “superior
quality and-finish” and will have such
mod. cons, as garbage-chutes, central-
heating, hot-water service and car-ports.
Naturally there is a slight snag.
According to Interior Minister Fairhall
approximate rents for a one-bedroom
flat will be £5 55., for two bedrooms
£6 ss. and for three £7 ss.
• •
Labor aldermen of Sydney City
Council are getting wanderlust again.
Last time they contracted the disease it
took them —at ratepayers’ expense —on a
tour of America, where they found out
some useful facts such as “Washington
is the capital of the United States.” This
time the suggestion—it comes from
Lord Mayor Jensen —is that a party
should visit other States and New
Zealand “to investigate housing
scherhes.” The bhoys are reported to be
enthusiastic about the idea.
• •
Objecting to the terms “assimilation”
and “New Australians” as applied to
migrants, the president of the Victorian
Employers’ Federation, Lewis C. Burne,
suggests that “integration” is a far better
word because it suggests a unifying com-
pleteness. Migrants probably couldn’t
care less, but there’s more meat in another
suggestion of Burne’s. He is urging every
school, office, club, church, sporting
body, trade association—in fact, every
collective group—to put newcomers on
committees and sub-committees in the
proportion of roughly ten per cent.
Representation of migrants in this pro-
portion, he says, at some future industrial
conference, would be a real community
achievement.
• •
Chief Justice Owen Dixon is reported
to have declined to nominate Percy
Spender, Australian Ambassador in
Washington, for the next vacancy on the
International Court of Justice at The
Hague. External Affairs Minister Casey
says that Sir Owen did this “on the
ground that he should not be concerned
in the nomination of an individual who
has been a member of the Government.”
The explanation shows a nice point of
legal delicacy. No one,'least of all Sir
Owen, would be likely to suggest that


Sir Percy’s own experience of the law
may not have been regarded by the
Chief Justice as outweighing that of, say,
Professor Julius Stone, dean of the faculty
of law at Sydney University, and now a
distinguished visitor at Harvard.
• •
Kahibah went back to the official
Labor party as a result of Saturday’s
N. S. Wales Assembly by-election. On
Monday J. J. Stewart (Lab.) with 9426
votes had an overall majority of 1073.
Other scores: Richley (Lib.), 4400;
Daley (D.L.P.), 2520; James (Ind.), 1433.
The D.L.P. tally fell considerably short
of the party’s expectations, based rather
optimistically on the Burwood figures.
There was no official Labor candidate at
the Burwood by-election. But the win
doesn’t justify Labor claims that the
D.L.P. is a spent force. They haven’t
the numbers to win many seats at a
general election, but on the Kahibah
figures they could certainly make Labor
lose a lot.
• •
Ebasco is said to be recommending the
removal of a number of seats from every
Sydney railway-carriage so as to make
more standing-room. Why leave any?
Better still, why not remove the carriages
and let everyone walk? There wouldn’t
be any revenue that way, but there
wouldn’t be any expenditure either.
' • •
Having survived last week’s meeting of
the Q.C.E. with what amounted to a
guarded rebuke, Gair now faces Thurs-
day's meeting and a threat to expel him
from the A.L.P. for not legislating
for three-weeks’ leave. In Sydney on a
visit Gair said he didn’t expect to be
expelled. Asked on Packer’s TV-station
what he would do if he were expelled
he replied, “If I told you that on TV, a
lot of people would be as wise as I am.
And I don’t want them to be as wise as
1 am.”
• •
Sensitive people could easily take
offence at the willingness of Qantas pilots
to fly monkeys but not humans. And
mightn’t it give the monkeys a false idea
of their own importance?
• •
m
An inaugural meeting of a movement
aiming at the creation of a new State in
Central Queensland will be held at Rock-
hampton on Tuesday, April 23. The
sponsors complain that although the pro-
duction of their district per capita is 75
per cent, higher than in any other section
of Queensland the region gets a raw
deal from the State Government. Pro-
jected name of projected State—Capri-
cornia.
• •
Earle Page, vigorous as ever, didn't
wait for the inaugural meeting of the
Capricornia movement. At the annual
conference of the Queensland Country
party at Rockhampton he said there was
a need for several new States in northern
Australia. The paucity of population
north of the 30th parallel was a
disgrace. He advocated local self-
government as soon as possible;
attraction of overseas capital and experts;
continuous co-operation between State
and Federal Governments; the handing-
over to private enterprise of some
Government undertakings.
At the same conference Treasurer
Fadden said uniform taxation was killing
the Federal system —as Labor had
intended it should. He said his ambition
was to abolish uniform-taxation and
restore to the States the responsibility
for their own tax-expenditure and their
own financial policy.
It is now nearly five years since
Menzies announced that his Government
was “abundantly and promptly willing”
to discuss the return of taxing powers,
and Fadden expressed hopes that a simple
workable scheme could be evolved which,
while giving the States back their taxing-
powers, would retain the advantages of
one return and one assessment. The
position is still unchanged, but Bolte’s
High Court challenge is due for early
hearing.
• ©
Bolte’s Victorian rail-chiefs have just
got a bargain—a brand-new railway-
station for a shilling. It wasn’t in a
raffle, either. A station built by Vacuum
Oil for the Altona oil-refinery nine miles
out of Melbourne has been bought by
the Railways for one shilling as the com-
pany no longer wants it. It’s no ghost-
town, either ; 10 electric trains will stop
there daily for the refinery staff.
• •
Professor Bland’s public - accounts
committee has been examining the
Department of the Interior’s land trans-
actions and is rather critical of certain
aspects. They recommend a careful
review of the functions of the depart-
ment in respect of acquisition and dis-
posal of land. Many properties have not
been used for the purpose for which they
were acquired, and there seems to be little
systematic action to dispose of unwanted
properties. This last point has been the
cause of much heartburning; State
authorities, as well as Federal, are far
more expeditious in resuming land than
they are in disposing of it should it turn
out not to be needed for their purpose.
• • •
Largely owing to increased competition
from rail- and road-transport the
quantity of general cargo carried on
Australian coastal vessels declined last
year, remarks the report of the Stevedor-
ing Industry Authority, adding, “Unless
freight-rates are kept within reasonable
economic limits, more of this trade will
be lost.” High freights aren’t the only
reason for the decline. Slowness and
uncertainty of delivery are other factors
causing shippers to switch from sea-
transport.
• •
From Westminster:
On the whole, Britain’s Defence White
Paper has been well received. At least,
it comes to terms with realism and with
the practical limitations of Britain’s role
in defence. To think in terms of the
past is all sadness: the battleship as
symbol of world protection ; little
patches of red on the map as strategic
points or garrisons ; regimental foreign
service—all are gone, or nearly gone.
Even the R.A.F. is to be reduced to a
token force, and the sum total of
Britain’s armed services to little more
than a posse.
And, most distressing of all, Britain
is not only vulnerable but indefensible
against the H-bomb.
These are hard and heavy deliberations,
but they must be faced. They are in-
escapable. Still, there is some apprehen-
sion over the sweeping reduction in so-
called conventional weapons (including
forces), for the very deterrence of atomic
warfare has the effect of provoking local
wars. In other words, isn’t there a danger
that Britain may become another Holland
or Denmark?
THE JUDGMENT OF JOSKE


There's oTA
flight to suit YOU!
Whenever you travel, wherever you travel, there’s always a
TAA VISCOUNT flight to suit you. For your convenience,
TAA operates daily round-the-clock Viscount flights, between
all states. From as far north as Cairns, to Hobart in the south,
right across the nation to Perth in the west, you can fly TAA Viscount.
,
m
More people fly TAA —Me friendly way
Reservations: TAA Booking Offices in all States or any authorised Travel Agent.
PERSONAL ITMES
Passed on in Melbourne, T. T.
(“Mick”) Seppelt, of the famous wine
family. A director of the firm, and a
grandson of the founder, he went to Vic-
toria from S.A. in 1917.
• •
America-bound this month, R. I. Mac-
donald, winner of' the first Sisalkraft
travelling-scholarship. Worth £lOOO, it
will be an annual award to an Australian
architect under 35 years of age ; the idea
is to give outstanding young architects
overseas experience in management and
organisation. Young Macdonald, who
studied at the Royal Melbourne Tech.
College and Melbourne University, won
another travelling - scholarship (the
Haddon, awarded by the Royal Vic-
torian Institute of Architects) in 1949, on
which he went to Europe for three years.
He is a partner in Eggleston, Macdonald,
and Secomb, the firm which last year
designed the quarter-million-pound
Beaurepaire Centre at Melbourne Uni-
versity.
• •
“Doormat”: After 18 years as
secretary of Melbourne Cricket Club,
Vernon Ransford has retired because of
poor health. Brilliant outfield and left-
hander of other days, he repped for Aus-
tralia in 20 Test-matches between 1907
and 1912 ; in 38 Test innings aggregated
1211 runs, with a highest score of 143
n.o. (against England at Lord’s in 1908),
and an average of 38 ; and in the five
Tests of that tour under M. A. Noble,
topped the batting averages with 58.83,
although one of his team-mates was
Victor Trumper! Wisderis put him in
the five cricketers of the year for 1909:
“No safer catch or more untiring worker
in the deep field has ever been seen.”
Now 73, V.R. is a life-member of the
M.C.C., a former Victorian selector, and
was awarded 0.8. E. during the Queen’s
visit. Interested in football, too, he’s been
delegate for Melbourne to the Victorian
Football League.
Ross Radcliffe’s father and grand-
father were both factory-managers for
W. H. Burford and Sons, and Ross, now
managing-director of the Adelaide
branch, has held the same job: the
family’s combined service is 110 years.
The firm (now controlled by Uni-
ADELAIDE MANAGING-DIRECTOR
lever) was established in South Aus-
tralia in 1839 and has an interesting his-
tory. On one occasion, when the founder
went through the hoop, members of his
church bought the business and gave it
back to him R.R. is 44, took-over his
present job last year, and relaxes sailing
■—he’s commodore of Grange Sailing
Club.
The new Presbyterian Chaplain-
General in the C.M.F. is the Rev. nugn
Cunningham, a Scot, of Eastwood
(Sydney). He was formerly senior Pres-
byterian chaplain in New South Wales,
a post now occupied by the Rev. John
Malyon, of Chatswood. Both served in
the last war, the C.-G. in Malaya (he was
a prisoner of the Japs) and the Rev.
Malyon in the Middle East and the
Islands.
• •
“Lobby”: Bill Campbell, principal
Parliamentary reporter, has retired aiier
34 years’ service with the Commonwealth
Parliament. His last nine years as “Han-
sard” No. 1 man in Canberra have been
eventful and strenuous, taking-in the en-
largement of Parliament in 1949, and the
introduction of the daily “Hansard” in
1955. Bill Campbell’s staff were recently
complimented on the verbatim report of
the proceedings of the Seato conference
—Australia’s first, big, international con-
ference.
Campbell took to journalism 49 years
ago, when he was 16, and had his ground-
ing at Broken Hill, then very much a
frontier town. In 1913 he went to
Adelaide, where he worked on metro-
politan dailies before joining the South
Australian “Hansard” staff, and was
appointed to the Commonwealth Parlia-
mentary reporting staff in 1923 ; he was
the only member of that latter-day staff
who had reported Federal Parliament
when it sat in Melbourne.
• •
H. C. Behan, editor of debates at the
N.S.W. Parliament, has called it a day
after 32 years as a “Hansard” reporter.
• •
Melbourne Anglicans and others gave
Archbishop Booth a rousing send-off on
his retirement from the See ; they spread
out over the stands of the Olympic Pool,
gave him a substantial cheque on a silver
salver (which is the most any man, even
an archbishop, can expect), and Sir
Dallas Brooks and his deputy at Govern-
ment House, Sir Edmund Herring, were
among those present to wish him well.
Dr. Booth, who has bought himself a
house in East Malvern, a Melbourne


suburb, isn’t packing-up at Bishopscourt,
because he will continue as administrator
until the Church of England selects his
successor.
Only a day passed before there was
another tribute from Archbishop
Mannix, at a Roman Catholic Com-
munion breakfast: “In peace-time and in
war-time he has given all that he had in
the service of his own denomination and
the service of the whole community. At
all times he has been dignified, restrained
and broadminded, and he now retires —1
don't know why—with the esteem and
the good wishes of the whole
community.”
Dr. Booth was 15 years archbishop and
is 70. the stipulated retiring-age for
Anglican clergy, which he has always
upheld. Dr. Mannix has been coadjutor
or archbishop since 1912, is in his 94th
year, and is clearly determined to die in
harness. Comparatively, Dr. Booth is
a lad, and it is plain Dr. Mannix thinks
the Anglicans are Unfair to Archbishops.
• •
“Judee”: Wally Yeates, dashing left-
hander with St. George (Sydney) cricket
club, has given the game away. He’s been
playing cricket for 25 years, 20 in first-
grade. Wal holds one record he’s proud
of: he beat Sir Donald Bradman’s record
with the club—scored more than 5000
runs in grade (3000 for St. George), top-
ping Sir Don’s aggregate for that club.
Yeates started playing with Petersham
as a schoolboy, and after the last war was
a member of the Australian Services
team.
• •
Sir Edwin Tooth (his knighthood came
through in the 1957 New Year list) was
born in Queensland, and most of his
BRISBANE KNIGHT
benefactions have been in that State: sub-
stantial help for the St. John’s Cathedral
Memorial Fund ; £35,000 for a lecture-
hall and research-laboratories at Brisbane
Hospital; £20,000 to bring out medical
teachers of world reputation . . . Appro-
priately, he was sketched by Lambart in
Brisbane. Founder and chairman of
Austral Motors (which, with its sub-
sidiaries, handles some £7-million of
business a year), he was also chairman
of Tableland Tin Dredging for some time.
He’s a great-great-grandson of the Rev.
Samuel Marsden, and a War I M.C. In
War II he did a lot of work for the Red
Cross, and he's addicted to gardening,
fishing and shooting.
• •
Made a start at the University of
Western Australia, Irwin Lewis, believed
to be the first aboriginal youth to attend
a university. He is 17, the son of a rail-
way-worker at Perenjori, and will take
Arts. Irwin won a scholarship to Christ
Church Grammar School. Another of his
race, Margaret Williams, also 17, enrolled
as a fresher at Queensland University this
year.
• •
One of Melbourne's best-known stayers,
Ferdinand Henry Wright, who has
held an Army commission for 40 years
and has been a personality in insurance-
offices in the city almost as long, flew
off the other day to lead the Australian
delegation at the biennial congress of
the International Chambers of Com-
merce in Rome and Naples. He’ll leave
Italy to represent Melbourne at the
British Chambers of Commerce gather-
ing in London in May. A veteran of
these affairs —he was at the 1927 gather-
ing at Stockholm, at Copenhagen in 1939,
and at Montreux in 1947— he told The
Bulletin, before he went, that this one
will be the thorniest: the congress will
discuss preferences within the Empire.
His first visit abroad was to Gallipoli,
with the 14th, in 1915. Wright is chair-
man of Godfrey Phillips and on the
boards of, among other companies, Felt
and Textiles, Bradford, Burlington and
Associated Securities.
• •
“Ailsey”: Killed in a Sydney street-
accident, Dave Ryan, one of the greatest
players ever to appear with Collingwood
Australian Rules club in Melbourne.
After coming to N.S.W. he was State
coach for some years. Ryan, who was 72
at the end, had worked for Mark Foy’s
for more than 30 years, and was a shop-
inspector.
• •
Thomas L. Thomas, the tall Welsh-born
baritone from the U.S., has a polished
technique over a wide range of song and
an engaging platform - personality.
Remarkable how a few words can bring
the house down, given the right spark.
As, for instance, when Thomas had a shot
at his accompanist Jacob Hannemann the
other night in Sydney. A preamble to the
Welsh folk-song “Counting the Goats,”
and the singer explains that there are
several kinds: “A black goat, a white
goat, and” —he pivots slowly, turning
to his florid-faced collaborator—“a red
goat.”
Simple stuff. But the ability to put it
over successfully is rather rare. Thomas,
who had the effrontery to turn-down a
seven-year contract with the Metropolitan
Opera after winning its Audition of the
Air. because he preferred the freedom of
U.S. BARITONE
concert-life to the restrictions the opera-
house would necessarily impose, has
appeared as a soloist with most of the
major orchestras in the United States.
He sings his way from coast to coast
every year, through an average of 60
countries, and has a number of radio- and
TV-commitments. Australians with names
like Llewellyn, Jones, Owen and
Griffiths should be interested in his sing-
ing of Welsh folk-songs.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 82, Charles Campbell, prominent
in Masonic circles. A Mason since 1903, he
was a Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge
of N.S.W., and from 1935 to 1950 was Grand
Treasurer of the United Grand Lodge.
In London, at 75, Dr. Isaac Eastwood Jones,
Principal Medical Officer to the London Metro-
politan Police Force. Born at Bendigo (Vic.),
he graduated with distinction at Melbourne
University, and went to England in 1913.
In Melbourne, at 51, F. J. Dean, member of
Melbourne Stock Exchange; with Vinton
Smith, Dean and Dougall, sharebrokers, for
more than 20 years. Brother of Mr. Justice
Dean, Chancellor of Melbourne University.
In Adelaide, at 60, Ivor Bren Green, M.V.0.,
South Australian Police Commissioner.
At Timaru (N.Z.), at 75, John Fitzsimmons,
nephew of the great Bob. He held the N.Z.
middleweight title, and some good pugs emerged
from his boxing-school at Timaru,
In Melbourne, at 63, Henry Edwin Sloan, who
won the M.M. and two Bars in World War I.
He was with the Bth Bn. and also served with
the Fifth Divvy Sigs.
At Auckland (N.Z.), at 71, Hector Gray,
probably the most successful jockey produced
by New Zealand. He had a string of winning
mounts in France, Belgium, England, and in
New Zealand, where he steered several home
ahead of the famous Gloaming: the Melbourne
Cup winner Sasanof, at Riccarton; Desert
Gold, at New Plymouth; and Thespian, in
record-time for the mile, at Ellerslie.
In Perth, at 85, John Fitzgerald, station-
manager, and, for many years, one of the best-
known identities in the Murchison (W.A.)
district. Before settling at Mullewa, about 25
years ago, he had managed Edah and Badja
stations.


ABORIGINALITIES
MUOGAMARRA
A COUPLE of miles north of Cowan,
on the Pacific Highway (N.S.W.),
are a pair of double-gates on the left,
with a road leading through them into
the bush.
They don’t look like magic gates, being
of iron pipe and netting fixed with a
chain and padlock, but they lead you to
a region where you find you have
suddenly stepped back 200 years.
Out on the Pacific Highway there are
howling semi-trailers, plush sedans with
automatic gears and other things of 1957
—but where that side-road leads is pre-
Captain-Cook.
The side-road takes you into Muoga-
marra Sanctuary. That is Awabagal-
tribe language for “preserve for the
future,” which brings up the point of
this story.
The founder of the 2000-acre
sanctuary, and its honorary curator, Mr.
J. D. Tipper, is battling uphill to preserve
it for the future.
His enemy is fire.
In most other reserves around Sydney
fire has repeatedly obliterated everything,
killing-off tiny rare plants and the native
animals and birds. These reserves have
plenty of foliage on them today, but
most of it is modern stuff.
Muogamarra has had its fires, too.
Luckily, they have been localised ones.
The place has never had a fire right
through it, and so it contains very rare
plants and very rare animals that are
nothing to do with 1957.
The sanctuary nearly went up in
smoke quite recently.
When he saw what was likely to
happen Mr. Tipper told officials these
things: Some fishermen had lit a little fire
on a Hawkesbury River foreshore near
the sanctuary and had not put it out; the
wind had got it and carried it into one
of the quietest parts of the sanctuary;
that was the place most favored by
the koalas and the rare marsupial mice,
lyrebirds and other creatures ; some of
the foliage they had moved about in
was unique to those few hundred acres
of the earth’s surface.
Officialdom wouldn’t budge. The fire
swept through that quiet part of the
sanctuary. The animals and birds that
were left escaped with others on the
sanctuary to a valley which seemed to
them safe.
I walked with Mr. Tipper .to a cliff
"I shot the beast at Poona. Obviously a cross-breed of some sort."
overlooking the valley that night, and
he was a very unhappy man when he
forecast what might happen in the morn-
ing. The fire was a red ribbon about a
mile long, rising and falling with the hills
near one end of the valley. It was burn-
ing quietly enough in .the cool of the
night.
But morning could mean a very
different thing, Mr. Tipper said. The
winds forecast for the morning could fan
the fire into the valley, making the place
an inferno.
Mr. Tipper said the officials had been
sympathetic when he told them his fears.
But they told him the Army was the only
place he could get the number of men
he needed in a hurry to put the fire out,
and the Army was called in to fight fires
only when life and property were in
danger.
The officials pointed out that, after all,
it was just bush burning.
“Just bush,” said Mr. Tipper, and was
silent.
Some police did come out to the
sanctuary that night to see Mr. Tipper-
two of them, the only police available.
And as they explained: “Our patrol
in our car stretches from Hawkesbury
River Bridge to Gordon, Mr. Tipper.
There are a lot of people living in that
area. It’s a main highway and there are
often bad accidents on it.”
Mr. Tipper quite understood. The
policemen could not forsake all their
other work to try to put out a fire one
mile long in rugged country where no
lives were in danger, except those of
animals, birds and plants.
Mr. Tipper said he was not sure, but
that he thought in some countries the
official view might be different. Some
countries might feel that a place that
was unique, and doing something for
science, should be preserved for the
future even if it contained no human
life or property. He thought that some
countries might call out their National
Guard or something similar in the
circumstances.
The next morning came, and some of
what Mr. Tipper feared did happen, but
it was not as bad as it could have been.
There are still big areas of Muoga-
marra untouched by fire, and if you have
never seen bush of that kind the place
is well worth a visit. It is lush. The
growth and variety of plants is
unbelievable.
And the next fire could wipe it all
out. Then, when you go in off the
highway, Muogamarra would be just like
any other reserve that fire has been
through. Nice and bushy, but charcoal
everywhere. A place exactly the same
as hundreds of square miles anywhere in
the State.
What is Muogamarra sanctuary? The
sanctuary’s official pamphlet explains it
this way:
In the cooling and shrinking of the earth’s
surface, wrinkles are formed, as might be seen
on a drying apple. One of the depressions of
these wrinkles extends mainly from Nowra in
the south to Gosford in the north, approximately
150 miles, and from some place in the Pacific
Ocean to Lithgow in the west, in width from
Sydney about 80 miles.
Into this depression recently (in geological
time) flowed waters from some age-old




"Hey! Where's the rest of me order?"
mountains (long since levelled down) carrying
sands and mud forming successive layers of
sand- and shale-beds many thousands of feet
thick. The sands, through time and pressure of
superimposing layers, have become solid rock
known as Hawkesbury sandstone.
In the exposed decomposing surface of the
sandstone, shales or more fertile volcanic soils
there developed plants and trees individually
peculiar to them. Most of the existing flora of
the Hawkesbury Sandstone Region is quite
different from any other to be found elsewhere
in Australia, or even on the remainder of the
globe. Individual species might be limited to
an area of a few acres only.
Owing to its isolation the site of Muoga-
marra remained in its former wilderness.
About 1923 Mr. Tipper, believing the
area to be the last hope for retaining an
example of “this wonderful natural
fairyland,” conceived the idea of conserv-
ing it.
The first section of Muogamarra—
about 600 acres—was granted to Mr.
Tipper in 1934 by the State Government.
The sanctuary was reserved by the Gov-
ernment on June 12, 1953, and a trust
was formed. Mr. Tipper is president
of the trust. On October 29, 1954,
Muogamarra was dedicated by Parlia-
ment.
Today it covers about 2000 acres, and
is the result of about 50 years of Mr.
Tipper’s specialised study and personal
effort.
Its value? Well, Professor Burges,
formerly Professor of Botany and Dean
of the Faculty of Science at Sydney
University, put it this way: “A very
valuable scientific asset.”
Until something official comes along
to help them, Mr. Tipper and the
scientists will worry about Muogamarra.
They have put 44gal. drums of water at
strategic points. They have equipped a
fire-tender. But they know well that if
a bad fire got going they could not do a
thing to stop it.
DON JORDAN.
'THEY’RE telling this one in the West.
A steward at the trots, seeing an
owner place a small object in his horse’s
mouth, bore down upon him and
demanded to know what he had given it.
“Only a lolly,” said the owner suavely.
“No, it wasn’t,” snapped the steward. “It
was dope.” “It was a lolly,” insisted the
owner, and from his pocket took two
more. “Perfectly harmless. Look, I’ll
eat one myself. You have one, too.” The
steward did. Later, giving the driver his
final instructions, the owner said, “Get
out in front and stay there. Only things
that can pass you will be me and the
steward.” —“Sagittarian.”
* * * #
“Kesem”: A hire-purchase firm in the
dairying-belt of coastal Queensland has
gone back to old-time business-methods.
Three pigs in good order and condition
were taken as a deposit on a refrigerator ;
a milking-cow was accepted as payment
for a utility-truck, and an incubator was
considered a good enough deposit on a
washing-machine. A gate ensured the
delivery of another, and farmhouse-
furniture was taken as a deposit on a
tractor. A spare pair of dentures as
deposit on a mincing-machine, or a photo
of Grandpa in his long beaver, as final
payment on an electric-shaver could well
be a possibility from now on.
* * * *
“George B.”: The boss was in town
for the day, leaving his young bride,
fresh from the city, at the homestead. A
caller asked if the boss had any horses
for sale. “Well, I don’t know about
horses, but I know he’s got a few broody-
mares down in the horse-paddock,” she
said helpfully.
* * * *
“Woorarra”: I don’t suppose much
pace is needed to catch oysters; at all
events, unlike many waders, the sooty
oyster-catcher is a sluggish fowl, both
on the wing and on the hoof. A biggish
black bird, with conspicuous orange beak
and pink legs, Sooty belongs to the plover
family. In contrast to its closest relative,
the pied oyster-catcher, which frequents
sandy beaches, the dusky-hued fowl
favors rocky reefs, and generally fossicks
for food right at the water’s edge. It
moves, of course, with the tide, prospect-
ing a restricted area with great diligence
rather than roaming around. Probably
Sooty consumes only young and tender
oysters ; the adult mollusc might be a
bit tough for even his powerful beak.
* * * *
“Nancy Mac”: Our old outback neigh-
bor retired after living on the property
over 50 years. As water was scarce on
the place the young purchaser began
sinking dams. “B well mad!” said
the old bloke. “If / had the place I’d
put down a bore.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: He looked like a cross
between a cicada, a Christmas-beetle and
a cockroach: l|in. long, fin. at the widest
part of the body ; abdomen light-brown,
thorax darker; the two wings, folded
tight to the body like a cockroach’s, are
semi-transparent; four segments cross the
underside of the abdomen and look very
similar to the “drums” of a cicada. He
has six legs with “elbow”-joints and
“wrist”-joints, and dainty two-pronged
“hands.” The antennae measure lfin.
long and curl back and around in grace-
ful arcs from just beneath the compara-
tively big, black eyes till they touch the
body. Two tusklike nippers suggest that
the beetcadaroach could look after
himself. Anyone identify him?
* * * *
“Box 312”: After grumbling for
months about the thistles in the home-
paddock the boss bought a donkey ; for
the kids, he said. It grazed about the
paddock, and it was a week before some-
body noticed that the thistles were
untouched. Disgustedly, the boss set-to
with tractor and mower, and in a few
hours the spiky weeds were laid low.
Next day we were surprised to see the
donkey wading into the wilted thistles.
There was a world of resignation in the
boss’s “Ah, well, that’s what I got him
for.”
* * • •
“Swelpme”: On a trip down the
N.S.W. South Coast my New Aus-
tralian mate was interested in the word
“creek.” I defined: “A small water-
course not big enough to be a river.” We
came to a typical creek ; a signpost said
“Macquarie Rivulet.” Twenty-odd miles
farther on we came to Gerroar, with its
lagoonlike stretch of water which, within
a mile of the sea, fizzles to a mere swamp.
It, my bewildered New Aussie discovered,
is Crooked River. Some weeks later,
going north, we came to a noble stream
fully 100yds. wide which flowed into Lake
Macquarie. “This would be a river, yes?”
received my assurance that it would. It
was Dora Creek.


“Cactus Claude”: The sarge in our
little border-town has the golf-game
sewn-up. He h'fs-off from the tee, then
“Remember me at the Tech ?"
hops in the side-car while his offsider
pilots the police motorbike up the fair-
way. Arrived at the approximate loca-
tion, Sarge makes a leisurely selectiori of
his next club while the cop is sleuthing
the pill in the tiger-country.
* * * *
“Papalangi”: Another fish highly-
prized by the ancient Romans (B.
6/3/’57) was the red-mullet or sur-
mullet, brilliant red in general color-
scheme, with yellow longitudinal stripes.
Most of its genus, the Mullidae, are
tropical fishes, some of them otherwise
gorgeously colored, and all that I’ve
sampled have been excellent in flavor.
They’re plentiful around many of the
Pacific Islands, and several species are
common in Barrier Reef waters, though
they’re seldom found to the south of
the Queensland border.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: The yoke-stick with the
coolie in Scorfield’s cartoon (B. 13 /3 / ’57)
wouldn’t be shouldered even by our local
dim-sim hawker. No self-respecting
member of the Carriers (Unmechanised)
Guild would pad his piculan. On each
shoulder, close to the neck, he wears a
notable bulge of occupational muscle.
A piculan (in ser-finn a flattened oval) is
a very personal implement, and the user
will work on it with a piece of broken
glass for hours to ensure that his stride
and the bendings of the wood under
normal load are in workable rhythm. No
hooks on the ends, please—just grooves
cut in the wood, because, to keep your
piculan nice and straight, you turn it
over on alternative days.
* * * *
“Bitie”: Investigated what I presumed
to be a frog with whiskers in the half-
light, and found a hind-leg and foot of a
younger frog protruding from each
corner of its firmly closed mouth. As I
have always had an affection for frogs,
I’ll be disillusioned if the verdict is canni-
balism. Or was it swallowing its young
for protective reasons? It was just
before a heavy downpour of rain.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: He drove the sleekest
taxi in the small country-town—a gleam-
ing red streak of streamlined perfection.
He was never late ; available day or night,
in fair or foul weather ; sober, courteous
and obliging; helpful to . all, and
extremely popular. Stolid and unimag-
inative, he was not young or handsome ;
a shabby dresser; and never exceeded
30 m.p.h. His local sobriquet: “Speed
Gordon! ”
* * * *
'THERE seems to be a fairly widespread
notion that rats and mice are not
indigenous to this country, and that we
owe their presence to the first European
ships that came here.
Actually, the Australian Zoological
Region, which includes New Guinea and
some of the East Indies, has representa-
tives of only one of the 20 or more
families of rodents ; but of that family,
the Muridce (rats and mice) we have more
than 20 genera, and more than 100
species. Some of the.u are very large, the
Hercules-rat, of New Guinea, growing
to an overall length of 34in.; some are
very small, the pygmy-mouse being full-
grown at 4|in., very little larger than
the tiny European harvest-mouse.
The largest of our mainland rats is the
Queensland water-rat, which in appear-
ance and habits closely resembles the
water-rats of the southern States, but
grows to a length of 25in. It has
developed a taste for domestic ducks and
fowls, and is strong, fierce and active
enough to give any small rat-killing
terrier a ding-dong go.
Though the imported house-mice have
often appeared in enormous numbers in
some wheat-districts, the only native
species to appear in destructive migrating
swarms, as far as I know, is the omnivor-
ous long-haired-rat of the drier parts of
Central Australia and the N.T.
Grey’s-rat and the allied-rat are both
accused of raiding root-crops and fruit-
crops, but any of our native species are
only minor pests in comparison with the
three omnivorous, cunning, versatile and
apparently ineradicable importations, the
grey- or brown-rat, the black-rat, and the
common house-mouse. .
EX-PED.
THE BROKEN AXE
Mundaboree of the Kamilaroi
Fondled his blues tone axe with joy ;
The sunlight streamed through the stringy-
bark trees
On the fluttering wings of native 'bees,
A floating veil of silvery lace
About their nest in the sheer rock-face.
The bees had chosen their refuge well,
In the sheltering gloom of their sand-
stone cell;
Heedless he cut and thrust and battered,
The smooth blade splintered, cracked and
shattered.
Fretful he hurled his axe to the ground,
Disgustedly turned himself around.
And, chagrin writ on his broad black face,
Mooched back to the tribal squatting-
place . . .
Should you doubt this tale, you still may
see
The wild bees fluttering busily,
The axe-marks pitting the sandstone face,
And grey chips littering the grassy place
Where the blue stone axe of Mundaboree
Lies shattered beneath the stringy bark
tree.
N.S.W.
HILTON BARTON.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. .KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO- LTD.
FIRE M A RINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established ISIS.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Mild Investment Boom
T>ROPOSED legislation to
A separate the Common-
wealth Trading Bank from the
central bank is already being
misinterpreted by some busi-
nessmen, especially by those
who are finding credit-restric-
tions onerous. It must be said
at once that the proposed
change in Commonwealth Bank
relationships cannot be ex-
pected to have any bearing on
credit policy during the present
financial year, and maybe very
little in 1957 at all.
The alteration in banking
policy will, at this juncture, be
one of change in control rather
than change in central-ronk
policy; its long-run implica-
tions, however, could be very
much more important. When
the new system of trading-
bank deposits lodged with the
central bank is in operation
there may be more elasticity in
trading-bank policy ; but that
also remains to be seen.
In the meantime, the
economy is being affected far
more by the improving
balance-of-payments than by
legislation, proposed or other-
wise. For the nine months to
the end of March, Australia’s
favorable trade-balance was
£206 million, compared with
an adverse balance of £77
million for the same period of
the preceding year. This
remarkable recovery has been
partly responsible for the
easing of import-controls to the
extent of admitting another
£75-million-worth of overseas
goods a year, but, in keeping
with its anti-inflationary policy,
the Federal Treasury has not
felt disposed to relax its
attitude towards credit-control.
And, generally speaking,
rightly, though there are always
individual cases of hardship
and injustice. Arbitrary
controls always have innocent
or unintended victims.
But the force of the improved
trading position, which is
largely the result of sustained
demand for wool, is being
noticed on the Stock Exchanges
in spite of generally poorer-
trading results by listed com-
panies.
We are going through a mild
(though selective) investment
boom in the midst of a reces-
sion in domestic trade. Business
generally is tough at the
moment, especially in fashion-
goods ; city retailers are feel-
ing the pinch. The Govern-
ment’s aim of curbing expendi-
ture on consumer-goods seems
to have been accomplished for
the time being.
But in the sharemarkets the
pressure of wool income and
the like is creating a rather
extraordinary demand for
front-rank stocks, or shares in
which there are interesting
take-over possibilities.
Dull business conditions
alongside a keen, selective
sharemarket represent just one
of the many anomalies of the
Australian economy today.
The Commonwealth Bank
TN the decision of Federal
Cabinet to make a clear
separation of the central
bank from the Commonwealth
Trading Bank, with a separate
board of directors for the
latter, the Menzies Government
has honored its 1949 promise
in respect of banking-reform.
It is especially to be com-
mended for doing the correct
thing after so long a delay,
which was caused by differences
of opinion within the coalition
and among the Government’s
advisers.
There remain several facets
of the proposed legislation to
be illuminated, . including the
.position of the savings-bank—
whether it is to remain with
the central bank or to pass , to
the Commonwealth Trading
Bank- and also the future
f unction ing of the special-
accounts system.
Legislation to effect the
Government's policy is not
“The increase in union dues is necessary because of great
administrative expansion."
likely to be brought down
before the Budget session, but
Mr. Menzies has stated that
the rural credits department
will remain with the central
bank.
“Important matters of detail
concerning the future of the
mortgage bank, the industrial
finance department, and the
~. - • e,, C,
relaionsmp of the Common-
wea th Savings Bank are being
worked out in the light of the
complex technical problems
involved, said Mr. Menzies.
Now that a decision has been
reached by the Government
there will be no doubt about
the co-operation of Sir Arthur
Fadden in implementing the
policy. Whatever his views ais
leader of the Country party,
Fadden has always been a
loyal and enthusiastic Minister.
The U.K. Budget
p RO M the Australian in-
-T vestor - s viewpoint the
rnost interesting thing about the
U.K. Budget was the exemp-
tion from U.K. income-tax of
companies owned and con-
trolled in Britain but operating
abroad—they are exempt to the
extent of their profits earned
abroad.
How Australian income-tax
policy will react in respect of
U.K. companies operating in
Australia isn’t clear; but
the immediate response in
Australia was a sharp rise in
the shares of Consolidated
Zinc and New Broken Hill
shares ; and there was a firm-
ing also in some of the
London-controlled Australian
goldmines.
It appears that companies
trading partly in the U.K. and
partly overseas will have to
form overseas subsidiaries to
keep their external earnings in
separate compartments for
taxation purposes.
British shipping companies
'are to have their investment


fel •
My Dad is smart...
I'll say he fc! Soon after he opened an A.N.Z.
Cheque Account, he and Mum began something
they call a Budget the A.N.Z. man helped them
get it going. It certainly has made a difference ——
there are no more arguments about money.
My Dad says that he banks with the A.N.Z. because
he likes their friendly service. Mum and I agree
with him; we both have A.N.Z. Savings Accounts
at the same bank. Isn't that a good idea?
AN*Z
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK' LIMITED—“-Cheque Accounts
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAYINGS BANK LlMlTED— Savings Account
—— ' 1 1 1 1 Inr ANZ373 IT »■■
allowance for capital-expendi-
ture on new ships increased
from 20 p.c. to 40 p.c., in order
to assist them to compete with
foreign shipping-lines.
The Budget makes some pur-
chase-tax and “Suez-tax” con-
cessions, and grants some
income-tax relief to the long-
suffering £2OOO-£lO,OOO-a-year
earners ; there are also some
entertainment-tax concessions
in view of the impact of TV
on the theatre. But the Budget
really does nothing particularly
new or startling to (or for) the
average Briton.
Canada’s Budget, presented
last month in Ottawa, made
few income-tax concessions.
The principal one was that for
the 1957 year individual tax-
payers will be allowed to claim
$lOO deduction without sub-
mitting receipts for medical
expenses, charitable donations,
trade-union dues and profes-
sional membership fees. Those
with larger claims will file
receipts as before. ,
Some excise and sales-tax on
minor items is being removed.
Pension payments are being
raised from $4O a month to
$46.
The Australian and New
Zealand Budgets are not. due
until the second half of the
calendar year.
Ernest Hiller Holdings
AN issue at par of 200,000
ss. shares by Ernest Hiller
Holdings, Ltd., opened and
closed on April 4. Under-
writers were Hordern, Utz and
Bode, of Sydney ’Change. The
new money is wanted to
finance expanded production
and distribution.
The business was established
as Ernest Hiller Apparel Pty.,
Ltd., in 1947, mainly making
men’s sports-coats ; in 1950 a
reorganisation took place, with
a change-over to the manufac-
ture of men’s suits, and since
then quality and sales-service
have been steadily improved by
the introduction of skilled
overseas technicians. As a
result, the business has cashed-
in on the swing-over in men’s
fashions towards ready-mades
in the past 10 years.
Turnover and profits have
expanded as better-class retail
outlets have been established
in the main capital cities.
Profits expanded from £984 in
the year to June, 1952, to
£26,944 for the term to June,
1956. Funds employed rose
from £9075 to £50,998 in the
same time.
At December 31 last funds
employed were £63,138,
exclusive of pref. capital
(£20,000 in 8 p.c. cumulative
redeemable prefs.). For the
six months to Dec. 31, net
profit was £22,752 (after tax).
On March 15, 1957, Ernest
Hiller Holdings, Ltd., was
formed to take over the 37,250
£1 ords. in Ernest Hiller
Apparel Pty. for 400,000 ss.
fully-paid shares in the new
co. After revaluing land and
buildings as at Dec. 31, 1955,
and plant, etc., as at Dec. 31,
1956, and allowing for the
present issue of 200,000 ss.
shares, net tangible, assets
behind each ss. holding-co.
share works out at 4s. lOd.
On the basis of the proposed
paid capital of £150,000, and
allowing for pref. divs. by the
operating co., past profits
indicate that the proposed
10 p.c. div. should be a com-
fortable matter, even allowing
for a possible setback in .turn-
over in keeping with current
problems in the retail trade.
Though the clothing trade at
present is having difficulties,
there is no question about the
fact that good-quality ready*
made suits with established
outlets in multiple fittings have
a particularly steady demand.
The trend has spread from the
U.S.A. to England and Aus-
tralia.
On the Ernest Hiller Hold-
ings board are Ernest Hiller,
N. A. Pardoe and R. M. J.
Williams.
Rutile Corporation
r T'HE prospectus of the Rutile
A Corporation of Australia,
Ltd., suggests that the board
hasn’t made up its mind about
several things. But it is offering
the public 800,000 shares of
2s. 6d. each (£100,000), and
says the minimum amount
which may be raised by the
present issue is £26,500.
That would merely provide
for preliminary exes., some
of the vendors’ considera-
tion, and £lO,OOO of “working-
capital.” And already 443,204
shares have been issued for
consideration other than cash
“by way of directors’ qualifica-
tion shares and vendors’
consideration.”
Even if the full £lOO,OOO of
new money is subscribed by
the public, it appears that it is
required “to enable the com-
pany to carry out further geo-
logical test-boring already
commenced by the vendors, and
to provide for purchase-
monies, preliminary expenses,
including brokerage or com-
mission, and a sufficiency of
working-capital prior to the
installation of primary and
secondary treatment-plant.”
Exactly how or when the
treatment-plant is intended to
be financed isn't made clear in
the prospectus, but the co.’s
consulting-engineer is quoted
as saying that “for a capital-
expenditure of £38,600 it would
be possible to commence min-
ing operations immediately at
the rate of between 1000 and
1300 long tons per year.” But
the directors “are confident
that further testing will quickly
show the necessity for install-
ing a much larger plant.”
The co.’s mineral - sand
options are spread down the
eastern coast of Australia, and


§
m
%
m
3fn
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Blanches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O'Connell Sts.,
Sydney.
H. V. La wry,
Manager.
NoV you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
SS'i
rout hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for FREE Literature
BARR HUE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3ko, 243 Elizabeth .St., Sydney
in some cases are several
hundred miles apart. “An
estimated tonnage in excess of
20,000 long tons of rutile” is
spoken of rather indefinitely,
and it isn’t clear in the pros-
pectus as to how much the more
particular estimates of
“proved” rutile overlap. But in
the Palm Beach (Q.), Cudgen,
Mooball and Ballina areas
(N.S.W.) the co. speaks
definitely enough of “a mini-
mum of 3045 long tons of
rutile.” There are other areas
at Innisfail, Mackay (ilmenite)
and Cooktown (Q.).
The prospectus says, as to
price, “Three- to five-year con-
tracts for advance supplies of
rutile are readily available at
around £9O per ton.” When the
co. starts seeking such con-
tracts it may find them harder
to arrange than it seems to
anticipate.
The co. is buying mining
leases and/or authorities-to-
enter, applications, etc., from
Tweed Rutile and Minerals,
Ltd., at (a) Mackay for £2500 ;
(b) at Cudgen, Mooball,
Ballina, Innisfail, Cooktown,
etc., for a royalty of £8 a ton
on all rutile mined, in respect
of which 328,000 f.-p. shares
have been issued and £7OOO
in cash is to be paid, both
payments “to be deemed to be
advance of royalty in full on
the first 6000 tons of rutile to
be recovered.”
In respect of the Pottsville
(N.S.W.) area, J. T. Waterton,
a director of the present float,
has contracted to pay T. G.
Ellendon a royalty of £2 ss. a
ton on “rutile proved to exist.**
The co., in acquiring the option
from Waterton, has agreed to
pay £8 a ton on “rutile proved
to exist,” and 103,200 2s. 6d.
shares have already been issued
to Waterton (and a payment of
£3OOO in cash is to be made),
both “to be deemed prepay-
ment of royalty at the rate of
£3 per ton on an estimated
tonnage of 5300 tons ”
To say the least of it, pre-
payments of royalty and
advance royalties on the scale
mentioned in the prospectus
are remarkable, even where
payable largely in shares, and
the difference between what
Mr. Waterton is paying in
royalty and what he is to
receive from the company
strikes the eye immediately.
This prospectus, like some
other rutile prospectuses com-
mented on previously in The
Bulletin, is vague and
scrappy, and its royalty
arrangements are extraordin-
ary. The financial plan behind
the enterprise is too indefinite
for serious analysis. For
example:
Once the options and agreements
for sale of mining rights already
referred to have been consolidated
and exercised, and further test-
boring has been carried out to prove
ihe much larger reserves indicated
as existing, it is intended to install
plant and equipment for mining
rutile and its minerals.
The company will, if necessary,
make an additional issue of shares
lor this purpose.
On top of that, it is casually
mentioned that “the directors
have the right to accept over-
subscription [to the present
issue] to the extent of 400,000
shares.”
On the board are John
Thomas Waterton, Lance Sly,
and Claude R. Varley. Brokers
to the issue are Claude R.
Varley and Co., who get 74 p.c.
on all shares - in the issue
allotted by the co.
Menzies’s Visit
[ I'rom Canberra]
Af R. MENZIES’S official visit
to Japan isn’t just another
junket. After the pleasant
speeches and official functions
he has allowed for some hard
administrative work. Part of
the P.M.’s job will be to try
to hasten agreement on the
terms -of the proposed
Australia-Japan trade treaty.
Mr. Menzies will have top-
level talks with Japanese Prime
Minister Kichi, who only
recently left his portfolio of
International Trade and
Industry Minister, a post from
which he set in train the pro-
tracted negotiations for : the
treaty.
Meanwhile, talks are con-
tinuing in Canberra between
Japanese delegates and an Aus-
tralian team led by Trade
Department assistant-secretary
Dr. Westerman.
The Japanese are anxious to
get an agreement that would
assist them to overcome their
huge trade deficit with Aus-
tralia. -At present the deficit
is increasing and is now
running at about £lOO million
a year. Japan is arguing for
most-favored-nation treatment
in its trading with Australia
and has a chance of getting it.
At present the highest rates
of duty are levied on Japanese
imports which, if given m.-f.-n.
treatment, would come into
Australia on a tariff only
slightly higher than Imperial
preference.
If Japan gets m.-f.-n. recog-
nition, scores of top-quality
Japanese goods, such as
cameras, optical instruments,
and electrical equipment, will
soon be on the Australian
market. Australian manufac-
turers have already been
alerted to look to their laurels.
Power and Transport
■pOR several years The
Bulletin has been drawing
attention to the virtual collapse
of efficient transport in Aus-
tralia, partly as a result of
Government control of rail-
ways, partly because of trade-
union domination of all trans-
port.
It is interesting to hear the
views of Dr. Harold F. Bell,
economist to the A.M.P.
Society, on the subject. (He
has made a special study of it.)
The following remarks, on both
power and transport, were part
of his address to the First Aus-
tralian Plastics Convention in
Canberra, which was entitled
“The Economics of Secondary
Industry.”
With h o m e - p rod u c e d
materials (said Dr. Bell),
stability of wages, if
achieved, will in turn help to
keep material costs down, but
there are two other factors
entering into production-costs
over which industry also has
very little control. I refer to
power and to transport. There
are great power developments
going on in this country ; there
has been a marked change in
the relative importance of
power-sources, with even
greater changes predicted for
the future. There is little
doubt that power resources are
going to be materially boosted,
and that industry may expect to
benefit from this greater avail-
ability. What, however, is far
from clear at this stage is the
relative cost of the various
power media. It may be that
present predictions of the'
future pattern of power-utilisa-
tion may need to be modified
in the light of the emerging
costs, and resultant charges.
On transport, I must confess
I am gravely pessimistic. Our
isolation from world markets
on the one hand, and the
grossly skew dispersion of out-
own population, are both
factors which make it inevitable
that our transport - system,
internal and external, should
be a very costly one without
necessarily being an adequate
one. In so far as this is a con-
sequence of our physical
environment we can do little
to change it. But I fail to
accept that, in addition to these
inescapable difficulties, our
transport-system should also be
an inefficient one. From a
recent study I made of this
problem (a study which I may
say left me very depressed) I
was forced to the conclusion
that transport represents one of
the largest costs in Australian
industry and, further, that it
is the cost about which we
seem to be doing least.
“It is to me,” said Dr. Bell,
“the gloomiest spot in an
otherwise not - altogether -
unhopeful outlook for costs in
secondary-industry _ develop-
ment in this country, and I
think that secondary industry
will be making a good invest-
ment if it uses all its influence
to achieve a truly national
policy on transport. There are,
admittedly, enormous political
and Constitutional difficulties ;
but the magnitude of the task,
in my opinion, is far out-
matched by the rewards which
a transformation of our trans-
port-system could bring.”
Lustre Hosiery’s loss of
£198,734 was caused mainly by
slow sales. But it includes a
£ IOO.OCO write-down of stocks.


“This one we made-up from leftovers ."


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME CO CRT OF NEW
SOITII WALKS.— Is Divorce.
TO REGINALD MANFRED NORRIS
formovlv of Manly.—TAKE NOTH E
that STELLA MARIK NORRIS has filed
a. Petition for Divorce No. 2388 of
1956 on the grounds-of desertion for
three years and upwards without just-
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office, Supreme Court Kins?
Slieet Sydney l>v 28tli of .June 19.>7 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from IV. I). SCHRADER k
DUDLEY, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney,
New South Wales. —Ji DOUGHAN,
Registrar*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW'
SOUTH WALES. —Iv Divorce.
TO MAURICE GEORGE SC H A DEL
formerlv of Rozelle and Wagga.—TAKE
NOTICE that JOYCE MABEL KATH-
LEEN SCH A DEL has tiled a Petition
for Divorce No. 522 of 1957 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at ‘the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 2Sili of
June 1957 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from W. It.
SCHRADER k DUDLEY, 113 Pitc
Street, Sydney, New South Wales. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.—Is Divorce.
TO JOHN ERIC HARRIS late of
Oorrimal.- —TAKE NOTICE that . EDNA
HARRIS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2682 of 1956 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 7th June 1957 and obtain, a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. MADDOCKS COIIKN &
MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 38 Martin .Place,
Svdnev, Cilv Agents for MESSRS.
MAGUIRE & McINEIINEY, Wollongong,
Solicitors for the Petitioner. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Nicolai Malko
Nicolai Malko, the Russian-
born American, made his bow
as musical director of the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra in
the A.B.C.’s subscription series,
and the programme was a
searching test of his capacity.
Among his chief character-
istics is benignity, seemingly
born of confidence—certainly
not misplaced in this- case —
that all the knotty problems
were unravelled in the
rehearsal-room. But he can call
upon plenty of forcefulness
when he becomes the big-
climax builder, and, without
benefit of score in the
orchestral works, he pounces
on individual instruments for
entrances like a cat on a mouse.
He began with a reading of
Frokofieff’s “Classical” Sym-
phony which coruscated along
every bar. Written before the
composer returned to the
Soviet from self-exile, this gay
little mixture of seriousness and
satire, applied in 20th-century
terms to the strictly-classical
forms of Haydn and Mozart, is
a gem of its kind. The high
violins chortled with engaging
lilt and gaiety.
Ricardo Odnoposoff was
soloist in Sibelius’s Violin
Concerto. Of all the Finn’s
works, this is probably the least
typical. Though of rugged
strength, there blow through it
none of the bleak northern
winds such as mark his sym-
phonies from No. 4 on; it is
all mellowness and warmth
and might have been written
by a southern Italian or a
Viennese. It was a beautiful
performance by both solist—
who could scarcely contain
himself from using his fiddle
as a dancing-partner in the
intoxicating rhythms of the
final movement and the
orchestra, the weight-balance
being trimmed with expert
touch by Malko.
The third piece, Rimsky-
Korsakov's “Scheherazade”—
the most richly colored
Oriental suite extant —brought
out individual playing of a high
order. The voice of the plead-
ing Sultana supplied by Ernest
Llewellyn’s violin, Calender’s
narration from Gabor Reeves’s
clarinet, Alan Mann’s softly
breathed horn and Walter
Black’s bassoon, John Robert-
son’s trumpet and the trom-
NICOLAI MALKO, new musical director of the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra, as seen at rehearsal by Dubois.
bone-fanfares—all made rich
contributions. -
❖ *l* *
“Martine”
Sydney’s Genesian Theatre
fell rather short of its usual
standards with its opening
performance of Jean Jacques
Bernard’s “Martine” —a play
of thinnish but delicate and
undeniable charm about a
young soldier back from the
wars whose passing flirtation
shatters the little world of a
peasant girl.
Despite evidence that pro-
ducer James Lang knew what
he wanted, he rarely got
it. There was a mis-
placed enthusiasm about the
acting that obscured the human
and quietly logical pattern of
the story, afrd the players often
lacked the subtlety to bring out
its overtones of wistfulness and
occasional irony. Patricia Mc-
Carthy, for instance, worked
very hard and gave quite an
impressive demonstration of
acting but, in (he early passages,
her peasant girl was only
Giselle with a simper and
didn’t spring naturally from the
country ; later she suggested
too much twanging emotion—
the feeling that hysteria was
just around the corner—when
a much more muted pain
(animal suffering, almost) was
needed.
Lewis Luton’s young man
had the air of a manly approach
to picking flowers. There were
textbook manners rather than
real hunger in his love-making
as the young returning soldier,
and what should have been his
casualness with the love-
stricken Martine manifested
itself as an incredible boorish-
ness altogether out of character
with the sensitivity of the role.
• There was more calculated
gentility than any natural
and spontaneous charm in
Barbara Maxwell’s portrayal of
the wife, and her acting didn’t
always follow the cues her
lines offered her; William
Crocker’s farmer had a rough
honesty, but either he or
audience-laughter—it was diffi-
cult to decide which —evoked
crude bucolic comedy where
the production desperately
needed the simple truths of the
earth.
“Time Remembered”
Brisbane Arts Theatre
opened their 1957 season with
Anouilh’s “Leocadia” Eng-
lished as “Time Remembered.’’
A young prince tries to
recapture his past excitement
with a dancer, Leocadia, who,
following the unfortunate
tradition of Isadora Duncan,
strangled herself, with a flam-
boyant gesture, with her own
scarf. Viennese cafe, taxi, ice-
cream stall and wayside-inn—
all his former haunts with the
dancer —are purchased and set
up in the grounds of his estate.
The final piece of recon-
struction is made possible when
his imperious aunt detects in a
Parisian midinette a. physical
resemblance to the late
dancer and imports her into the
scene. There she is trained to
walk in the Leocadia gait and
to peer at strangers like a
demented Borzoi, only to
destroy the preposterous artifice
by the force of her own
natural personality.
Sets by Rene Vance were
exciting in an Alice-in-
Wonderland manner (one felt
that Anouilh must have known
his Lewis Carroll). Berys
Marshall was a delight as the
heroine, and in an otherwise
excellent otudy of the motivat-
ing aunt, Jean Jarrett over-
looked the significance of her


I
POST THIS COUPON
Please send illustrated
pamphlet on National
prefab cupboards.
Name.,.
Address
DAVID JONES'
Box 503, G.P.0., Sydney
mm > *
/
m.
■y
I *
if
r
nii mii if
... .
'
NATIONAL PREFABRICATED CUPBOARDS
solve your storage problems the economical way
National prefabs are constructed of timber, kiln-dried to a moisture content of between 12
and 15% to ensure that your cupboards will never warp. All doors slide to conserve space
drawers are dovetailed for greater strength. David Jones' have the largest range of National
prefabricated cupboards in Sydney. Come in and see them, or post the coupon above for an
illustrated pamphlet. Let D.J's help to solve your storage problems. Prefabs on the Third Floor.
SIZE RANGE OF NATIONALS
National prefabs can be combined in various widths
to make a complete storage wall ... a linen cupboard
. . . a wardrobe. They can be fitted with as many
or as few drawers or partitions as you need for
your particular requirements. The range is from 2'
to 9' wide and 8' high. If the 8’ is too high, you
can have them 6‘ 4" high without top cupboards. Or
we'll cut them in width to suit- your requirements.
PRICE RANGE OF NATIONALS
2', £l9/3/6; 3', £22/10/-; 4', £25/1/6; s*.
£3O/12/-; 6', £33/6/6; B', £4l/13/-; 9’, £46/16/6.
Partitions, 42/9; drawers, 20/-; shelves from I 1/6;
and shoe racks from 14/9. Complete with all hard-
ware, an instruction sheet and accessories. Buy your
Nationals on David Jones' easy terms . . . save pounds
on the total cost. Ask D.-J's experts to tell you just
how much money you do save. B 0664 for enquiries.
D.i'S FAMOUS GUARANTEE: COMPLETE SATISFACTION OR YOUR MONEY BACK


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—Is Divorce.
TO TOM ALLAN MINCHAM late of
Broken HiII.—TAKE NOTICE that
PHYLLIS MAY MINCHAM has filed
Petition for Divorce No. 3383 of 197)6
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 14th June 1907 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. W. C. BEER-
WORTH & CROWLEY, Solicitors. 297
Argent Street, Broken Hill, or their
Svdnev Agents, MR. JOHN H.
PEOPLES, Solicitor,' 77-79 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGIIAN,
Registrar.
key-remarks that she had spent
a lifetime “improving upon
Nature.” A Frenchwoman,
under this policy, would never
become the English “eccentric”
of this performance.
Val Vallis.
❖ ❖ *
“Hippo Dancing”
The stage of the Princess is
one of the largest, if not the
largest, in Melbourne, but it is
none too big for Philip Stain-
ton, who is the short, stout,
bald-headed, bellowing and
shouting middle-aged hero of
the half-French, half-witted
Robert Morley comedy “Hippo
Dancing.’*
Hippo is an irascible Covent
Garden wholesale fruit-
merchant who for 23 years has
got up at 5.30 in the morning
to go to his business, returning
early to his main form of
relaxation, which is finding
fault at the top of his voice
with his French wife, his half-
French children and * Mrs.
Waggs, the help, who is the
only person who knows how
to deal with the poor chap.
When Hippo isn’t roaring up
some member of his domestic
circle he is soliloquising across
the footlights a la Hamlet,
though in somewhat less
exalted language. His strange
form of compensation has
driven one of his sons into the
arms of a seductive foreign
princess and into the art of
dress-designing, and the other
to taking flight from the tyrant.
His wife is able to maintain a
sweet composure, having found
solace in the arms of a middle-
aged lover early in their
marriage.
Mr. Stainton is just the man
for the part of Hippo. From
the mere physical point of view
the deafening clamor he keeps
up from the rising of the cur-
tain almost until its final fall is
most impressive and indicates
remarkable lung-power. He
is not continuously amusing,
however; there are some arid
patches which Nicolette
Bernard, as his wife, and Lily
Moore, as his mother, and
Noel Howlett, as the lover,
endeavor to fill-in with senti-
mental conversation without
much success.
Artbursts
Contemporaries
The Contemporary Art
Society paintings at David
Jones’, Sydney, are mostly
large, lurid and abstract. If
they look alive they also look
derivative and repetitive.
Dahl Collings’s “Cabra-
murra” is lurid and simplified ;
William Fish’s “War Bird” is
lurid and full of interesting
wings and wheels; Elwyn
Lynn’s still-life and industrial
landscapes are lurid and
energetic ; F. Dzintars’s “Rock
Fisherman” is lurid and
dramatic ; and all of these may
be looked upon with some
profit.
Because it is not lurid and
has a nice grey face, so also
may Judy Cassab’s “The
Student” ; and the thin intima-
tions of landscape by George
Laszlo ; and a pale, macabre
watercolor of “Death Land”
by an artist named Benno
—who is presumably no rela-
Jack Palance, Lee Marvin and Eddie Albert in “Attack,”
at Sydney Plaza.
tion to the famous character
of Fact’ry ’Ancls.
The show is illuminated by
a “construction” by Margel
Hinder which, ingeniously
propelled by invisible
machinery, and made of shining
wings of galvanised-wire,
rotates like the turning earth
above the dais. It is hardly
more than the modern version
of a chandelier, but at least
indicates the decorative poten-
tialities of this ephemeral form
of art.
+*♦ ♦♦♦
Macquarie Galleries
Easter offerings at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries are a
mixed and mild little show in
which a soft warm landscape
by Lloyd Rees, a sketch by
Russell Drysdale, a report on
Chinese junks in the style of a
Chinese scroll by Elaine
Haxton and an unusually lively
account of his favorite tene-
ments by Sali Herman are the
most attractive items.
Lithographs
Fifty lithographs by British
artists, members of the Sene-
felder Club, are on display at
the N. S. Wales National
Gallery until the end of April.
Films
“Attack”
Hollywood, so often given to
overstatement and senti-
mentality in its war films,
comes up with an exception in
this one, at Sydney Plaza.
It is a well-knit variation on
the cowardice-theme. An
infantry captain in the U.S.
Army is ordered by his
battalion C.O. to take and hold
an outpost of an apparently
deserted village during a vital
phase in the Battle of the
Bulge in 1944. The captain,
who tries to hide his cowardice
behind a bold front, sends a
platoon under a game
lieutenant to do the job.
Before setting out the loot
grimly warns his captain that
if any call of his for support
goes unanswered —as it did on
a previous occasion with con-
sequent heavy casualties —he’ll
come back and get him.
The village turns out to be
strongly defended with con-
cealed armor, and casualties
result from the captain’s failure
to respond to an urgent call for
supporting attack. The two-
pipper pulls out with his few
survivors, hell-bent on ven-
geance. The denouement is
fast and exciting.
The character-drawing is
sharp. Lee Marvin is suitably
cynical as the C.O. who knows
he should court-martial the
captain but keeps him in his
job, because he intends to make
use of his political influence
after the war. Eddie Albert
mixes bluster and fluster to give
a convincing account of the
panic that seizes the captain
when the heat is really on.
And Jack Palance turns from
his usual role of wolfish
killer to give a strong por-
trayal of the tough lieutenant
who is forced to execute the
orders of a man for whom he
has the greatest contempt.
Combat-scenes carry com-
plete conviction and the black-
and-white cameras have been
used with imagination—no-
where better than in the ruined
village just before the uncanny
silence is shattered by bloody
and sudden contention.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Tea and Sympathy”
Robert Anderson’s screen-
version of his own play for
M.-G.-M. has the benefit of a
sensitive and intelligent per-
formance by Deborah Kerr as
the college-housemaster’s wife
who dispenses sympathy more
liberally than tea to the young
man who, unjustly regarded as
effeminate by his fellow-
students, establishes his mascu-
linity in the age-old way. The
director has handled a delicate
subject with polish and dis-
cretion.
John Kerr portrays the frus-
trations and awkwardness of
adolescence, and the problems
of a youth different from his
fellows. There is also sound
work by Lief Ericson, as the
booming husband contemp-
tuous of a young man who
doesn’t measure up to his own
standards of masculinity, and
by Edward Andrews, as the
father ashamed of a son who
prefers classics to clashes.
Other Sydney Releases
“Highway Dragnet” (Greater
Union Theatres): Innocent
man, arrested for murder,
slugs cops and beats it for
points west, hitching a ride
from guess who? Still, a
meed of excitement.


A Group of Experts to Manage
YOUR ESTATE
IliLl M j
a
Cm
M
Wm
%
The duties and responsibilities of a
Trustee and Executor are far too onerous
for any one person. Only expert advice
and wide experience can ensure that your
estate will be handled iust as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee
Company to look after your affairs you
are appointing not one but a group of
experts. Unlike an individual ;!ie Com-
pany js permanent, devotes all its efforts
to your interests, and gives security no
individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview
one of our Executive Officers in confid-
ence and without obligation; or write lor
our free booklet —"Trust Estates and
Their Management.”
BOARD OF DIRFFTORS:
G. B. Kater (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
( Vice-Chairman )
A. E. iiond
F. B. Fleming
J. R. Favipll
C. //. Locke
Manager: !\. L. Shine
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretory:
P. H. Andrews
Chip/ Trust Officert
M. A. Foulcher
Vrnianwil Trustee
COMP A IVY OF iV.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O'Cohiicll Slreet, Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ctrl.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
AUSTRALIANS as a whole have been
going in for life-assurance in a big
way over the past few years, and figures
released by the Commonwealth Bureau
of Census and Statistics show that over
half a million new policies (excluding
annuities), assuring £392.8 million, were
issued during the year to December 31
last. The sum assured under “new”
policies in 1953 was £279.1 million,
increasing to £304.5 million in 1954 and
£356.8 million in 1955. The number of
new policies issued has declined slightly,
but the practice of issuing one “blanket”
policy for company superannuation-
schemes makes comparison with earlier
years somewhat misleading.
Inflation has been partly responsible
for the increased value of individual
policies, but the growth of co.-super-
annuation and a greater recognition of
the investment-value of life-assurance
(prompted in part by considerable tax-
concessions) have helped the big life-
offices to write record amounts of busi-
ness in recent years.
The National Mutual, one- of the
leading mutual life-offices, completed its
87th term on September 30, a term dis-
cribed by the chairman as “the most
successful year in the association’s long
history.” Good bonuses, sound finances
and competitive rates have enabled the
National Mutual to take full advantage
of the increasing interest in assurance,
and in less than six years the sum
assured under contracts with the co. has
doubled, reaching a record £467,449,349
last term.
Maintaining a rate of growth well
above.the average for all life-offices, the
co. wrote policies assuring £79,464,240
last term. This £13,140,861 increase in
new business followed a lift of
£16,820,574 in the 1955 term:
, Year to Sept, 30 ~
New business— 1954. 1955. 195 G.
Policies .. 57,318 61,872 71.431
Amount . . £49,502,799 £06,323,373 £79,404,2.40
Total income .. 16,101,018 18,019,906 19,740,412
Total assets .. 107,708,457 116,997,240 126,531,000
Factors contributing to the higher figures
include a new series of whole-life policies,
the (continuing) growth of superannua-
tion-business and the 20 p.c. average
increase in bonus-rates announced early
last year.
After deducting reassurances and
certain taxes, etc., income for the year
jumped by £1,726,506 to £19,746,412,
interest, dividends and rents accounting
for £4,885,032 (up £462,480):
Added
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Life Fund.
£ £ £ £
1952.. 13,599,413 5,412,564 1,691,119 ]
Written off assets, £155,000 .. ( ,
Exchange adjustment, £24,042.. I °’ oUD ’‘ Z<>
To contingencies res., £650,<100 J
1953.. 14,663,089 5,798,347 1,797,657]
Written off assets, £59,346 . . }- 6,768,163
Exchange adjustment, £249,576 J
1954.. 16,101,018 0,432,307 1,931,673]
Written off assets, £17,812 .. ) 7,341,911
Exchange adjustment, £347.315 )
From tax reserve, £150,000 .. |
1955. .18,019,906 7.077,431 2,121.855)
Written off assets, £60,660 .. ) 8,409.960
Exchange adjustment, £20’),000., (
To contingencies ns., £300,600.. ]
1956. .19,746,412 7,550,605 2,394,838 1
Written-off assets, £29,075 .. , 9,733,744
Exchange adjustment, £38,150 .. )
* Includes licences, fet s aivd contribution to staff
fund. etc.
The co. saw more for each £ of expenses,
the expense-rate dropping from 11.76 p.c.
to 11.45 p.c. of total income. The addi-
tion to the assurance-fund was a size-
able £9,733,744, raising it to £118,580,659
and made after writing-down assets by
£29,075 (down £31,585), sending £90,836
to staff funds and meeting an extra
£473,174 of claims. The assurance fund
is supported by contingency and other
reserves totalling £4,105,061.
Greater mechanisation of accounting
and actuarial work has helped to keep
expenses in check as. well as facilitating
the introduction of annual actuarial
investigations. Last term’s valuation of
liabilities disclosed a surplus of
£3,788,996, excluding the £201,949
carried forward from the preceding
term:
Triennial Valuation, Annual
t A N Valuation.
30/9/’f»2. 30/9/’55. 30/9/’56.
Brought forward.. £258,622- Mi 279,101 £201,949
Total surplus .. 5,709,409 8,824,784 3,788,990
Appropriation—
Bonuses .. 5, OSS, 984 8,101,942 3,528,054
Oontii ig. reserve .. 050,000 300,000
Carried forward . . 279,107 201,949 402,891
Of the surplus £3,528,054 (including
£13,054 allotted as interim bonuses) was
used to provide compound reversionary
bonuses, on the same scale as in 1955, the
balance being carried forward. The
chief source of surplus (or policy-
holders’ “profit’") is the difference between
the rate of interest actually earned and
that used in calculating policy liabilities.
Last term the net rate of interest earned
increased by Is. sd. p.c. to £4 7s. 9d.,
while a 2} p.c. rate was assumed in the
valuation of liabilities.
The National Mutual ended the term
with assets of £126 million, £8,225,709 of
the £9,533,820 increase going into loans
on mortgage including home-purchase
loans, which, through the associated life-
.policy, contribute to both premium and
investment incomes. Shares, etc. (up
£715,169) include a £2,455,097 holding
of building-society shares. Funds are
invested in this form:
r~ 1955 N 1956 >
£ p.c. £ p.c.
Freeholds .. 4,088,014 3.5 4,460,307 3.5
Govt. securities* 51,255,970 43.8 51.887,211 40.0
IVbenturcs .. 5,484,314 4.7 6,111,783 4.8
Mortgages .. 39,410,499 33.7 47,636,208 37.7
Deposits building
society .. 1,013,000 1.4
I.oaus on policies 5,855,571 5.0 6,618,389 5.2
Slnres other cos. 6,869,365 5.8 7,584,534 6.0
Other assets .. 2,420,507 2.1 2,734,028 2.2
Total assets. .11 (>,997,240 100.0 120,531.060 100.0
Liabilities? .. 4,045,264 3,845,340
Met assets ..112,951,970 122,685,720
* Includes semi-Government loans, etc.
? Excluding liabilities under policies.
There was little alteration to the holding
of Government and semi-Government
securities, which continue to provide a
sound base for the co.’s investments while
additions to mortgages and shareholdings
promise a continuation of the growth in
investment-income.


Malco Industries, Ltd.
TRENDING the appearance of Malco’s
-*■ interim report the sharemarket has
taken the precaution of marking-down
the price of its f.-p. £1 ords. from 265.
to 235. 6d., for a return of 8,5 p.c. on the
basis of a 10 p.c. div.
The engineering and building-material
trades have been passing through a slack
period, and for some cos. it has meant
smaller profits and reduced dividends
for shareholders. Malco follows the
practice of making only one distribution
a year on its capital, after the end of
the term in June.
The co. produces malleable iron-
castings, malleable cast-iron pipe-
fittings in a wide variety, and material-
handling equipment, which it manufac-
tures under licence from the Link-Belt
Co., of America.
It started off in Sydney in 1950 as the
holding co. for 35-year-old Malleable
Castings, Ltd., and its subsidiary Link-
Belt Co. Pty., and E. W. Fittings, Ltd.,
which had begun its career in 1925 as
Edward Weir, Ltd. Shareholders in
Malleable Castings swapped their
152,520 shares for 285,715 f.-p. £1 ords.
in the new co., and E. W. Fittings share-
holders got £114,825 of new ord. scrip
for their 131,964 shares.
The alliance with Link-Belt has been a
very profitable one for the business. In
1953, to carry out substantial contracts
for material-handling equipment in
South Australia, the co. set up a new
subsidiary, Link-Belt (S.A.) Pty., with
Adelaide engineers J. R. Tregoning, Ltd.,
as the principal manufacturing sub-
contractors. During the 1955 term a
share-exchange was arranged, under
which Tregoning’s became a wholly-
owned subsidiary. Cost to Malco was
100,000 f.-p. ord. shares.
Since then the business has been
reorganised and expanded, and the
directors have expressed their satisfaction
with results.
Any measure of benefit from this
acquisition last year, though, was largely
offset by heavier taxation and deprecia-
tion charges, and a recession over the
closing months of the term in other
sections of the organisation, especially in
the demand for some stock lines of
malleable castings.
Depreciation, up £3060, took £22,380
and co.-tax, £49,768, an extra £5334,
leaving aggregate net earnings of the
group £4750 lighter at £83,058:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. t Dividend N serves, serves.*
1951.. 45,655 8 p.e. = 34,000 11,655 183,465
Unexplained addition, £350 .. .. 183,815
1952.. 63,509 8 p.c. = 40,000 23,509 207,324
Written-off intangibles, £3002 . . 204,322
1953.. 81,485 8 p.c. = 40,000 41,485 245,807
Written-off intangibles, £24,302 .. 221,415
Assets revaluation reserve, £136,527.. 357,942
1954.. 81,051 8 p.c. = 40,000 41,051 398,993
Add reserves J. R. Tregoning, Ltd.,
£24,828 423,821
Tax overprovided, £624 .. .. 424,445
1955.. 87,808 10 p.c. = 60,000 27,808 452,253
To staff fund, £9500 .. .. .. 442,753
1956.. 83,058 10 p.c. = 60,000 23,058 465,811
* Subject to intangibles, £121,642 at 30/6/’56.
As a percentage of paid capital, it was
13.8 p.c., as against a return of 14.6 p.c.
in 1955, and 16.2, 16.3, 12.7 and 10.7 p.c.
for the four preceding years. Repetition
of the 10 p.c. div. called for 72.2 p.c. of
the profit.
Balance-sheet movements also reflect
the difficulties encountered as the end of
the year came up. Debtors were down
by £4683 (to £239,943) and stocks of
materials finished goods and work-in-
progress (£674,277) were £33,243
lower:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital ..£500,000 £600,000 £600,000
Reserves .. .. 398,993 442,753 465,811
Mortgage .. .. 50,000 95,000
Overdraft . . .. ' 75,253 42,378
Creditors . . .. 302,553 482,768 422,883
Tax provision .. 69,092 51.552 49,833
Dividend .. .. . 40,000 60,000. 60,000
£1,441,933 £1,762,326 £1,735,905
Freeholds, plant.. 527,527 685,543 686,572
Stocks .. .. 477,710 .707,520 674,277
Debtors, etc. .. 176,573 244,626 239,943
Cash .. .. 7,186 2.995 13,471
Intangibles .. 121,642 121,642 121,642
£1,441,933 £1,762,326 £1,735,905
At the same time the co. was able to
improve the liquidity of finances. With
less money tied up in debtors and stock
and with the assistance of the second
£50,000 instalment of a £IOO,OOO loan
from the A.M.P. Society, it clipped
£32,875 off the overdraft and reduced its
debt with other traders by £32,875.
When accounts were ruled off working
capital was £67,029 stronger at £352,597.
Expenditure on new equipment at
Marrickville (N.StW.) and Adelaide was
relatively light. Only £1029 more was
added to fixed assets than was written-
off.
According to the chairman at the
annual meeting in mid-November, there
was a “decided improvement” in trading
operations over the opening months of
the current term. Export opportunities
in the Near East and South Africa were
being explored, and, following a visit to
the United States by Malco’s managing-
director, the co. hoped to be able to
expand its range of products.
Net tangible asset support for the scrip
is 31s. 6d. a share.
Marrickville Holdings, Ltd.
T>UBLIC interest in this nearly 50-year-
old business dates back to 1951, when
Marrickville Holdings, Ltd., was formed
to take-over the ord. capital of Marrick-
ville Margarine Pty. and Nut Foods
Pty. The co.’s earnings have almost
doubled over the last four years, and the
ord. div.-rate has risen from 8 p.c. to
15 p.c. Reserves include £132,600 from
asset-revaluations and share-premiums,
the market pricing the f.-p. £1 ords. at
725., to return 4.2 p.c. from a 15 p.c. div.
The £365,000 ord. capital of the original
subsidiaries cost the holding co. £821,250
in scrip, the public putting-up £225,000:
£150,000 share-capital and £75,000 in
premiums. The A.M.P. Society exchanged
its £200,000 interest in a subsidiary for
200,000 £1 4| p.c. redeemable prefs.
The group’s products, many of which
carry the well-known Eta brand, include
table- and cooking-margarine, edible-
and industrial-oils, nut-products and
grocery lines. An Australia-wide market
is supplied from the main Marrickville
(Sydney) works and from a recently-
opened plant in Brisbane. A 50 p.c.-
owned New Zealand co., Eta Foods,
Ltd., produces and merchandises nut-
products in the Dominion.
Australian production of table-
margarine, one of the group’s main pro-
ducts, increased by 32 p.c. during the year
to June 30 last although there was a
drop in the output of other types of
margarine:
Australian Production
(Tons).
Year. Table. Other.
1938-39 3,325 13,938
1948-49 8.529 20,789
1953- 9,762 22,294
1954- 9,809 21,951
1955- 12,952 19,368
Margarine-production was stimulated
by the war-time shortage of butter, and
the demand for the lower-priced product
has increased steadily in the last 10
years as rising prices threaten the rather
delicate balance of many domestic
budgets. Legislation by State Govern-
ments limits the quantity of margarine
that may be produced, and an increase
early last year in N.S.W. quotas was
strongly criticised by members of the
dairy industry.
A Queensland subsidiary of Marrick-
ville Holdings went into production dur-
ing last term (to June 30) and contributed
to group earnings, which, aftei; providing
an extra £45,738 for taxation (£249,585)
and £127,880 (up £27,976) for deprecia-
tion, increased by £1932 to £260,650:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. f Ord. N serves, serves.*
4 jf p.e.
£ £ £ £ £
Share-premiums, £75,000 .. .. 533,625
Preliminary expenses, £11,194 .. 522,431
’51.. 98,380 9500 8 p.c. = 58,819 30,061 552,492
Profit sale shares, £1968 .. .. 554,460
’52..134,015 9500 10 p.c. = 97,125 27,390 581,850
’53..232,734 9500 12$ „ ~121,406 101,828 683,678
’54..243,862 9500 134 „ ~131,119 103,243 786,921
’55..258,718 9500 15 „ ~145,688 103,530 890,451
’56..260,650 9500 15 „ ~145,688 105,462 995,913
* Subject to intangibles, £456,250 at 30/6/’55.
There was no difficulty in maintaining
the 15 p.c. ord. div., earnings covering
the pref. div. and 25.8 p.c. on ord. capital,
following 25.6, 24.1, 22.9 and 12.8 p.c.
back to 1952.
A branch of Nut Foods Pty. was
opened in Perth during the year, and, with
the completion of the Queensland factory,
expenditure on land, buildings and plant
added a net £198,054 to the book-value
of fixed assets. Freeholds are shown
mainly at 1950 valuation or subsequent
cost, less depreciation:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref. .. .. £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Ord 971,250 971,250 971,250
Reserves .. .. 786,921 ,890,451 995,913
Notes .. ..
Overdraft.. .. 105.941 473,231 187.352
Creditors .. .. 402.490 417,548 434,062
Tax provision .. 270,872 225,509 278,409
Final divs. .. 72,844 72,844 72,844
£2,810,318 £3,250,833 £3,539,830
Land, buildings .. 619,365 794,280 833,479
Plant .. .. 385,550 498,533 057.388
Investments .. 33,505 80,347 86,560
Stock .. .. 955,884 1,070,747 1,062,154
Debtors .. .. 358 093 442,284
Cash .. .. 1,671 1,624 1,715
Intangibles .. 456,250 456,250 456,250
£2,810,318 £3,250,833 £3,539,830
Future plans include the erection of a
factory on land owned by the co. near
Melbourne, and to finance the continuing
expansion of the group and augment
working-capital £400,000 was borrowed
last term on 6y p.c. notes maturing in
1960. Proceeds of the note-issue and
retained earnings helped the group to


DAVTKS & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neye, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patent* and
Trade Marks.— AnvT.
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines).
L. F. THORPE. MANAGER.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers :
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water filters. Steam Valves,
etc.
1.., muii.iJica 1868
Contractors to Government. Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
t
jACK>ON
osm.irvvv
a, mutt «
iCo S
lackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New YorU
LEFIEKPRESS AND OFFSET PRIMERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRIMERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS. EMBOSSER
PHOIO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS t ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
'leiegrams and Cablet
“JACKSUL.” BRISBANB
carry an extra £93,232 of debtors
and to cut the overdraft by
£285,879. Working - capital,
drawn on rather heavily in the
preceding term, improved by
£301,195 to £533,486. The
£434,062 (up £16,514) shown
against creditors includes undis-
closed “provisions.”
The directors report that all
subsidiaries operated “satis-
factorily” in the first half of
the current term, and that the
volume of sales and production
has been maintained. An interim
div. at the 15 p.c. p.a. rate was
paid this month.
At June 30, 1956, the con-
solidated accounts showed net
tangible assets of 31s. Id. for
each f.-p. £1 ord.
L.N.C. Industries, Ltd.
SHAREHOLDERS in L.N.C.
known as Larke, Neave and
Carter, Ltd., can thank the
popularity of the Volkswagen
for the excellent performance
put up by their co. in the last
two terms.
Publicised by its success in
various road-trials in Aus-
tralia, the German vehicle has
taken an increasing share of the
market for cars and trucks since
its introduction in early 1954.
Here are figures showing
recent registrations of the Volks-
wagen in N.S.W., together with
those of the Rover car and
Land-Rover, the two other
vehicles distributed by L.N.C.
Industries in this State:
N.S.W. Registrations.
Year to June 30 Six
f A — to
1955. 1956. Dec.,'s6.
Volkswagen—
Cars .. 1211 2505 1946
Trucks .. 334 785 561
Rover . . .. 451 “>“S on
Land-Rover .. 1012 1286 694
Source: Commonwealth Bun.. of
and Statistics, Canberra.
The co. also handles Perkins
diesel-engines, Wrigley light
trucks and Atco motor-mowers.
The Volkswagen is put
together in Melbourne (by a
subsidiary of Clyde Industries,
Ltd.), and assembly of the
Land-Rover is carried out at the
Enfield (Sydney) factory of the
Pressed Metal Corporation, Ltd.,
in which the Australian off-
shoot of the Rover Co. recently
became a substantial share-
holder. Plans are held to raise
further the Australian-made
content of the Volkswagen (at
present about 46 p.c.) and to
manufacture the Land-Rover
entirely within Australia, which
should mean progressively
fewer problems for distributors
like L.N.C. on account of
import-controls.
Because the restrictions fall
hardest on fully - assembled
vehicles, fewer Rover cars were
handled last year. Bigger sales
of the other vehicles, though,
took care of this and higher
operating costs [including
£24,888 special depreciation,
which lifted the year’s provi-
sion to £37,180 (£13,118)]:
Parent and Subsidiary.
Re-
June, Profit. Pref. f Ord. , serves.
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £
Tax overprovided, £15,000 .. 165,911
’52.. 67,170 1500 20 p.c.= 24,000 207,581
From stock-fluctuation prov’n,
£75,000 282,581
’53.. 79,583 1500 20 p.c.= 24,000 336,664
Assets revalued, £37,025 . . 373,689
Reserve capitalised, £60,000.. 313,689
Unexplained addition, £10,0.00 323,689
’54.. 85,452 1500 20 p.c.= 30,000 377.641
Add reserves, £8134 . . . . 385,775
Assets revalued, £79,413 .. 465,188
Share premiums, £48,210 .. 513,398
Less excess of cost-price over
par-value of shares in sub-
sidiary, £45,913 .. .. 467,485
’55.-193,030 1500 20 p.c.= 46,011 613,004
Reserve capitalised, £47,992 565,012
’56..197,233 150 C 20 p.c.= 60,021 700,724
On the average paid-up amount
of ordinary capital, increased
during the term by bonus and
cash issues, the £197,233 profit,
after allowing for pref. divs.,
was 65.2 p.c. The 20 p.c. div.
on the bigger capital was thus
easily maintained, and the co.
has repeated the 10 p.c. interim
div. this year.
The gift-giving, on a one-for-
three basis, was the third such
handout within five years. In
May, 1951, the co. made a one-
for-three bonus capitalisation
(£30,000) and in June, 1954, a
one-for-two issue (£60,000).
The cash issue, one-for-three
at par, put another £96,017 ord.
capital on the register. The
new money will help finance the
increased business arising
mainly from the Volkswagen
franchise.
Balance-sheet figures indicate
the extent of recent expansion:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 195. r >. 1956.
Pref £30,000 £30,000
Ord 240,110 338,601*
Reserves .. .. 613,004 700,725
Creditors .. 667,044 704,479
Tax provision .. 113,000 183,000
Final div. .. 24,011 31,211
£1,677,169 £1,988,016
Freehold property 307,243 403,328
Plant, etc. . . 88,646 109,384
Shares .. .. 40,000 40,000
Stock .. .. 581,390 709,046
Debtors .. .. 561,198 527,174
Cash, bonds .. 98,692 199,084
£1,677,169 £1,988,016
* Includes £2490 calls paid in advance.
Last year the co. completely
redesigned its Camperdown
service-station and opened a new
branch at Fivedock. A used-car
department established at
Camperdown will specialise in
Volkswagens. And to make it
easier for customers to buy, a
new subsidiary was set-up during
the year to provide them with the
necessary credit.
Following me general relaxing
of import-restrictions earlier in
the month the Federal Govern-
ment last week announced its
intention to increase motor-
vehicle quotas by an extra £ll-
- to £6O-million a year,
and to base the issue of licences
on the extent of demand for each
make of vehicle. Under the old
system distributors of less
popular models weren’t making
full use of their quotas.
The co.’s f.-p. ss. ords. last
traded for 12s. 6d. At that price
the return is an attractive 8
p.c. on the basis of a well-
covered 20 p.c. div. Net tangible
asset support is 14s. 2d. a share.
Western Titanium, N.L.
A ONE-FOR-THREE par
issue is to be made by
Western Titanium, N.L., next
month to meet the cost of exten-
sions to plant and to cover the
excess of capital-expenditure
over original estimates. Of the
£240,000 of new capital involved,
£95,000 is earmarked for work-
ing-capital, issue-expenses and
modifications to existing plant,
the balance going into addi-
tional plant designed to increase
production and enable the
recovery of rutile, zircon and
monazite.
Increases in the cost of plant
and labor, delays in the delivery
of equipment and a more exten-
sive testing programme than that
originally contemplated caused
the capital shortage.
In addition to the 720,000 ss.
shares now offered to share-
holders, Aberfoyle Tin, N.L.,
and Commonwealth Mining
Investments (Aust.), Ltd., are to
take-up a further 240,000 shares
at par. The new-issue scrip will
be called to 35., a final call of
2s, being planned for next
August or September, to give the
co. a paid capital of £840,000,
all in ss. ords.
A rail-link with the port of
Bun bury, about 22 miles from
the co.’s workings at Capel
(W.A.), was completed last year,
and the treatment-plant went


'-* 1 * v'
,V
:>w;-:^Y-;
. ;
, s''' i
W>M7-
:■■: .' : •
P£fi ANNUM
registered
F\RST
mortgage
DEBENTURE
STOCK
OTHER TERMS
AVAILABLE
2 YEARS TO
20 YEARS
SEE
PROSPECTUS
Fixed quarterly income free of
exchange.
Principal paid in full on maturity.
Principal paid in full before
maturity in certain circumstances
—refer Prospectus.
The largest asset backing of all
finance companies in Australia.
Assets exceed £40,000,000.
Underwriting Brokers to the issue:
lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne,
Sydney and Canberra.
Trustee for the Debenture Stock*
holders: The Perpetual Executors
& Trustees Association of Australia
Limited.
Requests for a Prospectus may be made to
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES and all Branches of the E.S. & A. BANK
LIMITED, NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA Ltd., and
Australia’s Leading Hire Purchase Organisation
U. 4
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
M COLLINS PLACE. MELBOURNE. MF4121.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .* ... 2/-
Yearly Subscription22/6
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a trac.
lion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
• Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd,
• Vardon Price Ltd.
. Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
Into operation a few days before
the end of 1956 with 12 of the
24 separators on order installed.
(The remaining separators were
installed in the current term.)
By the end of January 10,000 tons
of sands had been treated for
the recovery of tons of
ilmenite. The non-magnetic
residue, containing rutile, zircon
and monazite, was stored for
treatment by the proposed
secondary treatment-plant, which
the co. hopes to have working by
next September.
It is anticipated that the sale
of these minerals will contribute
to earnings in the current term.
By the end of March 6350 tons
of concentrates had been (or
were about to be) shipped to
buyers in Europe, Japan and
Australia, and a production of
76,000 tons of ilmenite concen-
trates was expected by the end of
the term (January 3, 1958), rising
to 100,000 tons p.a. when
modifications to plant are corn-
pleted. According to the board,
working costs are “of the order
of £3 per ton f.0.b.” and sales
already made “indicate that an
average of. over £6 per ton will
be realised.”
The co.’s first accounts, cover-
ing the period from October 20,
’55, to January 31 last, were
released with the announcement
of the new issue. Revenue from
the first five weeks’ production is
given as £20,965 (apparently
estimated), operating costs taking
£11,556, to leave a net profit of
£6646 after writing-off £2763
from mine-development account.
At the end of the term there
were current assets (mainly
cash, etc., and concentrates) of
£57,752 and liabilities of £42,429.
Fixed assets at £570,816 included
£140,447 for mine-property and
£47,503 against mine-develop-
ment. Preliminary expenses
were in at £20,507.
Forward contracts have been
arranged at “satisfactory” prices
covering that portion of the 1957
output “which could prudently
be committed.” In view of the
recent rises in the price of
ilmenite the directors have not
entered into any long-term
contracts.
The bulk of Australian-pro-
duced ilmenite goes to European
or Japanese buyers for use in the
manufacture of paint-pigments,
but it has been suggested that
the oxide may replace rutile as a
major source of titanium.
Since the announcement of the
new issue buyers have lowered
their bids for the co.’s f.-p. ss.
ords. from 7s. 3d. to 6s. 9d. The
scrip reached a “high” of 9s. 7d.
in 1956.
Consolidated Tin Dredging
'T'HIS big Melbourne-based
holding co.. was formed in
1951 to merge the interests of
nine Australian-owned tin-
dredging cos. operating in
Malaya and Thailand. The fall
in tin prices from the boom
levels ruling when the co. was
formed has affected earnings, as
have the difficult conditions pre-
vailing in part of Malaya and
the lack of sufficient payable
ground. Losses were reported
for the years ending June 30,
’52, and ’53. .
A 6d. div. paid this month
brings the total of divs. per f.-p.
10s. share since formation to 2s.
Paid capital, all in f.-p. 10s.
units, amounts to £2,730,495. The
sharemarket values the co. at
something like £750,000, pricing
the scrip at 2s. 9d.
Three dredges were idle for
the whole of last term and
another was closed in November,
1955, being sold (for a net
£33,629) last September. Negotia-
tions are in progress for the sale
of a second dredge. (The sale of
Tongkah Compound No. 5
dredge was reported two years
ago.) The work available last
February for the five operating
dredges would keep them busy
for periods ranging from a
possible 22 months (Tongkah
No. 4) to four years (Satupulo).
Consolidated accounts show-
ing the position of the group as
a whole aren’t published, and
inter-co. shareholdings, etc.,
must make an accurate assess-
ment impossible as far as many
shareholders are concerned.
The parent received £93,714
(down £112,023) in divs. from
the subsidiaries last term, show-
ing a net profit of £91,280 (down
£112,088), a mining-profit com-
ing from all of the five operating
dredges. The 6d. div. took
£136,525, drawing on previously
unappropriated profits.
Prospecting in Malaya has
been restricted by • terrorist
activities, and no new payable
areas have been located either
in that country or in Thailand.
Renison Associated Tin
'T'HE Australian offshoot of the
A big Rio Tinto group has
terminated its investigation of
leases at Renison Bell held by
Renison Associated Tin Mines,
N.L. There were hopes that the
investigation would lead to large-
scale development of the area.
Renison Tin sent out the first
div. for four years last January,
and the directors claim that the
mine is now on “a profitable
working basis.” New ore-bodies
have been opened-up and
development in one sector has
indicated sufficient ore for five
years’ production at current
rates. Plans for greater pro-
duction are now being pushed
ahead.
Sellers are currently asking
around 6s. for the co.’s ss. shares
paid to 4s.


MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
are going t° London
A with a considerable part
of the future prosperity of New
Zealand in your hands,” the
Prime Minister, Mr. Holland,
told Maoriland’s trade mission
before it left for Britain.
The 16-man mission has no
time-limit, and it will be
most reluctant to return home
till it has got something sub-
stantial from the British
Government. Its leader, the
Minister of Agriculture, Mr.
Holyoake, when asked on
arrival in London how long he
was prepared to stay, laugh-
ingly replied, »Well, off the
record, we have a general elec-
tion in November!”
There will certainly be
some hard bargaining and
some straight talking. The
chairman of the N.Z. Meat
Producers’ Board, J. D.
Ormond, can be depended on
for that. Some years ago he
made headlines with the sug-
gestion that N.Z. should “twist
the Lion’s tail.”
Before he left this time he
said: “If Britain insists on
importing from foreign
countries to the detriment of
our trade, then we may in
turn be forced to look increas-
ingly elsewhere for our export
and import trade.”
In other words, if N.Z. can’t
sell its produce to Britain at
payable prices, it will have to
try to sell it elsewhere, and, in
order to do so, it may have to
buy more from the countries
which offer it new markets and,
consequently, less from Britain.
The logic of this attitude
seems unanswerable. Put
forward by Britain’s fifth-best
customer it must rate serious
consideration.
✓
Com’wealth Trade-relations
There isn’t much room for
sentiment in Commonwealth
trade - relations nowadays.
Whatever concessions N.Z.
manages to get will be got on a
basis of mutual advantage. The
British Government naturally
wants to keep food prices
down, but it might be better
for the housewife to pay a
little more for her food and
maintain a market for the
goods which her husband
produces.
Under a subsidy system
which costs the taxpayer £245
million to produce a net farm-
ing income of £334 million,
British home production has
been expanded by 60 per cent,
since before the war. Un-
economic though it is, the sub-
sidy is there to stay. The result
is that the share of the British
market available to exporting
countries has been materially
reduced.
The N.Z. mission has taken
with it figures which show that,
if foreign countries attain
their pre-war level of exports
to the U.K. market, it will be
impossible for total supplies
to be absorbed at prices
remunerative to the N.Z.
producer. The main fear at the
moment is of the effect on
N.Z.’s lamb exports if Britain’s
“ It’s all off between us, Joe. We Weren't meant
for each other."
failure to restrict imports of
foreign beef results in a market
collapse.
New Zealand will seek more
protection. If it fails to get
it it will have to consider
cutting the substantial pre-
ferences granted to U.K.
imports. This would not only
facilitate its entry into foreign
export markets, but would
also reduce costs in both its
primary and its secondary
industries.
But N.Z. doesn't want to be
driven on that course. As Mr.
Ormond put it: “We want to
know whether the principle of
Commonwealth economic
preference is going to be dis-
carded, or whether it will be
preserved and translated into
terms of current international
trade so far as New Zealand
is concerned.**
Pay-as-you-eam
Legislation providing for
the introduction of Paye
income-taxation on April 1
next year is expected to be
introduced during the final
session of Parliament, which
opens on June 26.
While the system no doubt
has some advantages, the one
about which most talk is heard,
“painless extraction,” is not, in
fact, an advantage at all, but
a serious disadvantage.
Just as the human body is
provided with nerves to warn it
of impending danger, so the
body of taxpayers needs a
sense of pain to keep it alert
to the depredations of
extravagant Governments. As
one critic has remarked : “To-
day the only tax that con-
sciously hurts is income-tax,
and, with this pain removed
by Paye, the anaesthesia will be
complete.” When the taxpayers
are blissfully unconscious,
heaven knows how much of
their blood will be drained
away.
The president of the Wel-
lington Chamber of Commerce,
A. R. Sim, said that the
restraints placed on the private
sector of the economy had not
been applied with equal
earnestness by the Government
to its own expenditure. “This,”
he said, “is not the example
which the business community
is entitled to expect. It smacks
of humbug.”
A.N.Z. Bank, in its quarterly
review, pointed out that, if
each successive modification of
the pressure on manpower and
materials was offset by expand-
ing public expenditure financed
by Reserve Bank credit,
monetary policy was unlikely
to be effective.
The Sharemarket
The outstanding feature of
the N.Z. investment market is
the buoyancy of share prices,
which are going to peak levels in
spite of falling company profits.
Commenting on an analysis
of public-company results, the
Reserve Bank states that in
1955-56 business conditions,
which were particularly good
during the previous year,
changed -significantly, the
effects of credit-restrictions and
more competitive trading
being increasingly felt.
Turnovers continued to rise,
but at only two-thirds of the
iate of the previous year.
Gross profit mark-ups and net
profits both declined slightly.
Results of companies which
have completed their financial
year since March 31, 1956,
show that turnovers generally
were still rising, but in some
industries, such as electrical
goods and the textile trade,
there were substantial decreases.
The gross profit mark-up
and rate of stock turnover were
both substantially lower than
in the previous year, but the
rate of debtor-collections fell
very little.
Net profits were down,
indicating an increased diffi-
culty in passing rising costs on
to consumers.
The ratio of current assets to
current liabilities was stronger.
The main sources of funds
were, as in 1955-56. retained
profits, partly obtained through
the sale or revaluation of fixed
assets, and long-term loans,
with debentures, mortgages and
preference shares becoming
more important relative to
ordinary shares.
The additional funds
obtained have been used to
reduce overdrafts, to increase
stocks, to reduce “sundry
creditors” slightly and to
acquire fixed assets.
Changing business conditions
have had the effect of damping-
down expected capital expendi-
ture and making businessmen
more cautious about plans for
expansion. Less money has
been invested in fixed assets
since the middle of 1955, and
returns from a few companies
relating to the latter part of
1956 indicate that this trend
is continuing


WHAT HOLDS QUEEHSLAND BACK
TyrORTH Queensland recently had a
visit from the Prime Minister, who
told the folk there of the illimitable
future ahead of their State and fore-
cast that overseas capital would soon be
pouring in to develop the mineral
resources of the north. In Canberra
Senator Spooner, Minister for Develop-
ment, spoke in a similar strain, visualis-
ing a time when atomic-power stations
would supply electricity to smelt the
bauxite deposits on Cape York
Peninsula. If an overseas investor had
happened to drop into Brisbane last
week with the intention of discussing
with the State Government the possibility
of opening-up a new industry, he would
have found it necessary to tone-down
the glowing picture painted by Menzies
and Spooner. He would, in fact, have
had firsthand evidence of why Queens-
land, potentially the richest State in the
Commonwealth, was lagging behind some
of its less endowed sisters in develop-
ment.
He would have found that the State
Government had just passed an Act
severely circumscribing the activities of
the oil companies, most of them repre-
sentative of the overseas capital the
country allegedly needs. He would have
found that the same Government had
passed another Act giving itself power to
interfere with appointments to the
academic staff of the University of
Queensland—a power not claimed by any
other Government in the British
Commonwealth. He would have found
Premier Gair at loggerheads with his
Deputy Premier Duggan and also with
the Q.C.E., the latter body claiming, as
it has always claimed, the right to dictate
policy to the State Labor Government.
“Democratic Socialism”
If the visitor, relying on the published
statements of the Q.C.E., in relation to
the Motor Spirits Bill and the Univer-
sity Bill, felt that perhaps the deposing
of Premier Gair might mean a new and
more tolerant Labor Government, a little
study of the recent history of the Q.C.E.
would soon disillusion him on this score.
Executive members voted with the rest
of the Federal Conference last month to
reaffirm Labor’s platform of Democratic
Socialism. They also voted for a resolu-
tion condemning monopolies—a term
which in Labor’s elastic dictionary can be
stretched to include any concern which
has built itself up sufficiently to become
an object of envy to democratic Socialists
who couldn’t run a pie-stall at a football-
match without a Government subsidy and
a guarantee that every patron and player
would be compelled to buy a one-brand
pie whether he wanted it or not.
It would probably also seem
strange to the visitor that although the
Queensland sugar industry was crying out
for migrant labor the Q.C.E. was support-
ing the Federal A.L.P. complaint that
the Menzies Government was bringing
out too many New Australians.
Particularly strange when the two most
prominent members of the Q.C.E. were
Old Australians Bukowski and Schmella.
By this time the stranger would,
probably have decided to take his pounds
or dollars elsewhere for investment, but
if his thirst for experience delayed him
longer he might hear queer charges about
the Oil Bill; that the Leader of the
Opposition had claimed knowledge of a
tape-recording of a mysterious telephone
offer to have the bill withdrawn for a
payment of £75,000 ; that 'Mr. Joseghson,
the Premier’s partner in the about-to-be-
bom National Oil Co., had claimed to
have been offered (by “oil interests”) a
million dollars to wind-up his company;
that the Premier had claimed that only
two months ago Q.C.E. president
Bukowski had written in the “Worker”
an article urging the banning of one-
brand stations ; that Bukowski, on being
told this, had replied that he couldn’t
very well be expected to remember what
he said two months ago. The apparent
inconsistency of this is quite consistent
with the rest of the picture. Deputy-
Premier Duggan called the bill “the
rottenest piece of legislation ever brought
down in the State Parliament” —and then
voted for it. A few days later, at a
Q.C.E. meeting, he voted against it and
against his leader, supporting a motion
that the bill (already passed) should be
withdrawn and redrafted.
Three Weeks’ Leave
If the visitor still had any room left for
wonder someone might tell him that the
Q.C.E. squabble with Gair wasn’t over
the two bills at all, but was part of a long
quarrel involving the granting of three
weeks’ annual leave, desired by the Q.C.E.
and refused by Gair on the ground of
lack of funds. That this, too, was merely
a side-issue, and that the real fight was
part of the Left-wing-Right-wing warfare
which had resulted in the formation in
Victoria of the Anti-Communist Labor
Party and in N S. Wales of the Demo-
cratic Labor Party. All this would be
largely true, but overlaying it is the fact
that politically Gair is unable to escape
from his past. Not his personal past, but
the past that is compounded of forty
years of Labor political control in
Queensland.
At this stage, thrusting his investment
plans well down in an inside-pocket and
buttoning his coat securely, the would-be
backer of Queensland’s future would
probably be impelled to ask how it was
that the electors had kept Gair and Co.
in office for so long, when he’d heard
that the State consistently returned a
majority of anti-Labor members to the
Federal Parliament.
He would then learn that this result
was obtained by a peculiar reversal of
most of the electoral practices that Labor
stands for elsewhere in Australia. In the
Federal arena and in five of the States
Labor policy concedes only slight modi-
fications of the principle of one-vote, one-
value. In Queensland, however, it sticks
to the belief, elsewhere condemned by
the party as reactionary, that the rural
vote should be given a greater weight
than the metropolitan vote so that
country interests won’t be swamped by
those of the numerically stronger city
electors. Owing to geographical and
geological differences the same argument
that is used to keep the South Australian
L.C.P. Government in power in a State
where the country vote is “truly-rural”
also serves to keep Labor in power in
Queensland. Nature dotted the Queens-
land outback with pockets of ore which
provide a living for small communities of
miners (good A.W.U. members to a man)
who, with the A.W.U. stockmen on the
pastoral holdings and the railwaymen,
form a regimented body of voters whose
short-term interests are identical with
those of the industrial centres and who
can outweigh the real “country” vote
of the farmers and graziers. In the
coastal sugar-districts a similar condi-
tion applies. The votes of the canecutters
(again, A.W.U. men), sugar-mill
employees, meatworkers and wharfies
become the rural voice, and the districts
have perpetual Labor representation in
the Brisbane Assembly.
The Voting System
The system is assisted by a refusal to
adopt the Federal electoral rolls as has
been done in every other State, and it is
commonly alleged that when a seasonal
worker arrives in an electorate his A.L.P.
friends are very solicitous about getting
his name on the State roll, but that when
he goes away again they’re not nearly so
careful about having it removed. More
than that, say the cynical, they even
carry friendship to the degree of seeing
that after his departure (whether for
another electorate or another world) he
still gets his vote —or at least that the
party still gets it. A third point of
difference with general A.L.P. policy is
the rejection of preferential voting.
Both the Gair faction and the
Bukowski faction of Queensland Labor
dismiss these allegations as foul slanders,
but they offer no sound explanation of
the apparent anomaly that while Queens-
landers, voting at Federal elections on
Federal rolls, return 13 Liberal and
Country-party M.H.R.s compared with
five Labor M.H.R.s, and at Senate elec-
tions, under proportional-representation,
elect six Liberal and Country-party
Senators to four Labor Senators, the
same people voting on State rolls with
State-drawn electoral boundaries choose
49 Labor members and only 24 Liberal
and Country-party men. In the northern
“rural” zone Labor holds 10 of the 13
seats, and in the western “rural” zone
nine of the 10 seats.
With this strength, however gained, it
is no wonder that Queensland Parlia-
mentary Labor carries on as though
assured of perpetual tenure of the
Treasury benches and the Q.C.E. adopts
the role of arrogant kingmakers.


ENTHUSIASTIC FARMERS EVERYWHERE ARE SAYING
IH
>' s '
888!
ss
K<a»
$
*:•*
* :
?«/*
' ■ :
m
m
-•■:■
> t fi
>WO** .*
Jvvsifoijku}te}&e^"x’;
w
Mr. D. G. Berwick, President of the Wheat and Woolgrowers*
Association of New South Waies, who has been an Ampol
user for 14 years, says —For our tractors and farm machinery ,
we use Ampol oils and greases exclusively , and I am convinced
that no other lubricant could stand up to the gruelling work so
well. 1 can sincerely recommend Ampol to tractor users”
Use the best . . . Australia's own
k
"top
k
3J
oc
POWER KIROSISIE
pi us Ampol Distillate 9 Lighting Kerosine
9 Petrol and a full range of farm lubricants*
4FM12.53


By JACK LUSBY
-rEVER climb through
[VI windows,” Evan said.
JL \| “Even in midnight
moonlight. Especi-
ally in midnight moonlight!”
Joe grinned. His hands
rested relaxed, alert on the
wheel. The engine-hum and
rush of air were steady and
soothing. The road sang under
the tyres. Sleeping beach-
suburbs slid by.
Joe felt the car lift under
him as the road soared over
a headland. Down on his
right lay the polished pewter
of the sea; ahead another
cluster of fiats and bungalows
in a wash of moonlight,
joe j e j j7 van ’ s remark play
arounc j his palate, savoring it.
jj ere anc j there in the racing
moon-shadows a splash of
mu ted yellow drew his eye.
ttT ... .. , .
Inviting, though—some of
them „ } £ said . ■■Especially
in midnight moonlight.”
“Some of the windows?”
“The lonely ones, still lit.
That waiting, hoping look.”
“Like welcoming beacons?”
“Like welcome and shush!”
“Like welcome and crash !”
“You aimed too high, Evan,”
Joe reminded him.
TT happened on a New Year’s
Eve. There was a flat
jammed with gay strangers.
Car-doors slamming outside.
A windblown chestnut girl
with a laugh like champagne
bubbles. She’d bubbled over
at Evan’s murmured entreaty.
“Oh, yes! Just tap on my
window! ” the chestnut girl had
said.
Evan had hung by his boots
from a roof-guttering three
floors up and tapped on the
window. Then they were pick-
ing him off the pavement.
Afterwards his eyes never got
right back into focus, but he
could still drive the firm’s car
in the daytime. He drove
around the metropolitan area
getting shop-orders for Austral
Tobacco. Cigarette-orders.
He got into the habit of
having Joe drive him on
nocturnal occasions. Joe
would drop Evan home ; then
take the car on to his own flat
and return with it in the morn-
ing. Then Evan would drive
Joe to where Joe sold cars in
the city.
“I was pushed, you know,”
Evan mused without rancor.
“She opened the window and
pushed. Strange behavior,
that!”
“Strange behavior going
visiting upside-down! ” said
Joe.
“You always say that,” Evan
laughed, “and I always
say”
“For every man there’s a
fatal window,” Joe finished it
for him. “For two years, every
time we have a night out you
say that. It’s an obsession.”
“Then let it obsess you,”
said Evan. “Here we are!”
r pHE white road slowed
-*• beneath the wheels and
stopped. Evan’s small
bachelor-bungalow slept in
moonlight and shadow.
“Don’t forget the parcel in
the back,” Evan said from the
pavement. He waved a grace-
ful farewell.
Joe’s next halt was before a
large house standing on shaven
lawns. Here the road ran near
the beach and he could hear
the surf. He leaned over and
tapped the shoulder of the girl
curled asleep on the back seat.
“Jenny—this your place?”
The girl sat up drowsily, then
came awake in a flash, shot a
dark-eyed glance at Joe and
flicked it to her surroundings.
Relaxed.
“Ohh—aren’t I disgusting!
This is marvellous of you!
You’re Joe, aren’t you?”
“Joe Hobey. This your
place?”
“Yes. I hardly remember
telling you. Oh, I feel good
now. The sleep. And home!
Some party!” She leaned for-
ward impulsively and put her
arms round Joe’s neck and
kissed him.
“Goodnight, Joe, and
thanks!”
“Thank you /” Joe told the
slamming car-door and clicket-
ing heels on the pavement.
He lit a smoke and calmed
down.
Along the side of the big
house a light came on, breath-
ing life through a curtained
window on to the moonlit
lawn. Joe looked at it, thought
at once of Evan and grinned.
Windows!
Someone at the party had
said, “Hey, Evan, Joe —this is
Jenny. Lives out your way.
Could you run her home when
you go?”
To Evan, these days, “the
parcel in the back.”
Joe sat there smoking, trying
to unfasten the parcel. A
mighty warm kiss, but a quick
get-away. Perhaps a mighty
nice girl. As nice as Anne?
Joe jerked out of the reverie,
dumped the smoke and started
the car. In the rear-vision
window the big house receded
and the light in the window
went out.
A FEW mornings later, a
morning when there was a
hot sun-sparkle on the sea, Joe


Never Climb through Windows!
spotted Jenny waiting for a
city bus. He braked his two-
toned demonstration-model to
a squelch'y stop beside her.
“Know me in daylight?”
“Joe! Hullo! ”
“Hop in. Going to work?”
Joe slipped into the city-bound
traffic again.
“Yes. But I’ll be terribly
early! ”
“Feel like a dip? We could
stop at the next beach.”
“Goodness! Do you often
stop for a surf going to
work?”
“On warm days.”
“What shall I wear?”
“There’s a costume in the
boot about your size. And
towels.”
“You do come prepared!”
“Why drive by twenty miles
of beaches every day and not
use ’em?”
“I mean the costume about
my size.”
“It belongs to a friend.”
Friend! Anne was a hell of
a lot more than that. She was
everything. If you totted up
all a woman should have, Anne
tallied. And she’s promised to
marry me! What am I
frightened of? That I won’t
measure up? Scared that Anne
won’t walk hand-in-hand with
strife? Funny thing about
this girl Jenny—she’s like
Anne with the brakes off . . .
Joe switched back to here-
and-now. Anne’s pale-yellow
swimsuit fitted Jenny like a
skin. Jenny had a mane of
dark-brown hair and a dark-
eyed look of mischief. Untried
mischief. Like a kid wonder-
ing what it’s like to skip school
and steal watermelons, Joe
thought.
He stood drying on the warm
sand and watched her come in
on a wave like a mermaid.
“Time to go?” she laughed
at him.
“Time all good little bundy-
punchers were on their way,”
Joe said.
“Isn’t it dreadful —being a
good little bundy-puncher!”
“I don’t know,” said Joe
honestly.
He was dressed and waiting
in the car when Jenny came
out of the changing-rooms
swinging Anne’s costume
around to dry it.
“She must be exactly like
me,” Jenny said, “the way it
fits!”
“She’s a different color,
that’s all,” Joe said. “That
swimsuit’s my favorite shape.”
“You use it as a kind of
measure? A test?”
“You pass with full marks,”
Joe said.
“You prefer shapes to
personalities?”
“Every time!” He dropped
Jenny, off in front of a big
insurance building in the city.
QURE about Anne, he was
perturbed that the Jennies
were still unsettling. He
phoned Anne.
“Joe dear! How are you?”
“I need some Anne. Some
Annetidote!”
“You’ve met some lustrous
brunette?”
“Well —on the rebound I
want to meet you. For lunch.
Right?”
“Right, Joe dear. Now go
and sell a car. I’ll be hungry! ”
Lunch over he drove Anne
back to the publicity-block
where she illustrated fashions.
Stood at her shoulder for a
minute or two watching her
warm up to her work, amazed
as ever at her skill, and watch-
ing the bold assurance of her
brush, and amazed at the
gentleness in her.
Joe felt reassured. Anne was
the one. To hell with the
Jennies. He drove back to the
showroom.
“Looks nice,” said a man,
running his eye over a sleek
car. The man looked
financially untroubled.
“That car’s nice all through,”
Joe said, swinging smoothly
into action. “Cave to drive
it?”
“Would you mind?”
“What it’s here for!”
When Joe got back there
was a message to phone Evan.
“Important do Friday night,”
came Evan’s lilting voice.
“Important indeed. Stag.
You’re eligible. Feel up to it
and do the driving?”
“Sure, Evan. Meet you for
dinner.”
“Friday! ”
“Roger.”
\I7TTH calculated timing Joe
’ ’ plucked Jenny off her bus-
stop again on Thursday morn-
ing. Another morning in
harmony with surf, sand and
the swing of seagulls.
Jenny had her own swimsuit
in her bag.
“You see? Now I’m pre-
pared!” she laughed.
The swimsuit was a two-
piece, a grudging concession to
convention.
“It just about leaves your
soul bare,” Joe told her on the
beach.
“Does my soul look nice?”
“I’d hate you to get it
burnt!”
“Sunburn or hell-fire, Joe?”
“That suit wouldn’t stop
either.”
Jenny was radioactive. Feel-
ing like an over-ticking geiger-
counter Joe dived into the
champagne-colored shallows,
swam out to where they were
breaking and cooled-off wait-
ing for a shoot.
There, in the blue-green
deeps where every shadow
below looked shark-like, Joe
relaxed and felt safe again.
Some girl, Jenny. Some girl,
Anne! Even so, can’t lurk here
all day, evading it! He kicked
on to a wave and came in.
Joe often faced-up to realities
and more often over-ffaced-up
to them, making them more
than real. He painstakingly
erected attackable windmills.
Mostly the windmills won.
Drying on the sand Jenny
told him some unimportant
things about herself. She lived
with her parents, liked Stein-
beck and Disney and violent
paintings devoid of meaning. A
thoroughly conventional girl,
the words say, but the sound is
mating-music.
“Time we headed for town,”
Joe said suddenly..
The ruthless jungle-run of
city-bound traffic calmed him.
He dropped Jenny at her office
and drove on to the show-
room.
“ ’Morning, Mr. Hobey. I
was here the other day.”
“Of course, Mr. Fleisch-
man.”
“Well, you’ve sold me a
car!”
“Blame our cars, Mr.
Fleischman. They sell them-
selves. But I’m glad to hear
it. This 57’s a crackerjack
{Continued on page 62)
“Jenny had her own swimsuit .... ‘It just about leaves your soul bare,’ Joe told her
on the beach”


Low's
Autobiography
Flashes of the post-war years .. . Nuremberg .. . U.N.0.. . .
Presidential-election touring with Truman . . . Hollywood . ..
And, winding-up his story, David Low sacking himself from
the “Evening Standard” and setting-up as cartoonist to the
world at large, cartooning for 250 papers scattered round the
globe.
25
( Continued )
D* i -~Tg|N the days of Britain's
gi “finest hour,” under
1 the full burden of
| bombardment, th e
§ British people had
Hi risen to unparalleled
heights of patience,
endurance and unity. The
British spirit of cheerfulness
under pressure had made
history.
Now the war was not yet
decided, but the desperate peril
had receded. The mood
changed. Once it became
evident that Hitler definitely
had overplayed his hand the
compelling force of unity
weakened.
People found less to admire
in one another. The emotional
exultation had worn off, leav-
ing only the personal tragedies
and the chores, the shortages
and the discomforts.
The British have always
fancied themselves in the
character of growlers. The
Spartan spirit was not lor
them once the pressure was
removed.
THE wind changed for me.
While the war picture was
active, sensational arid
picturesque, I had been
flattered and, complimented to
the point of embarrassment.
“Thank God for Low,” had
said a London vicar from his
pulpit. “Low is one of the
three forces that hold us
gether,” said somebody else,
meaning as the two others
Churchill and J. B. Priestley,
whose Sunday-evening broad-
casts had the ear of the whole
nation.
I was not used to being
written and talked about as
though I were a national hero,
and this and what I observed
happening to other people
filled me with dark suspicion
about the fortuitous nature of
greatness. When I felt called
upon to say that people were
eating too much and using too
much petrol, not workingNiard
enough and shooting off their
mouths too much it was a
different story.
The bad - tempered years
began. Cheerfulness turned a
little sour. Latent disagree-
ments began to reappear.
Political party quarrels began
to reappear, not only about
future developments and direc-
tions of foreign policy but
particularly about the blue-
prints of post-war reconstruc-
tion and the use of the oppor-
tunity to rebuild “a Britain
worthy of our splendid
people.”
Doubtless because of the
comparatively quicker impact
of pictorial over literary
expression. I came in for more
than my fair share of atten-
tion, acrimonious and other-
wise. For a time T became a
sort of lightning-conductor.
26
FRUGALITY and discipline
was no rousing call for a
general election. The
immediate post-war policies of
Britain were dictated by dire
necessity. But there was room
for difference of opinion about
the future.
Churchill’s advisers gave the
Conservative chances away by
relying on the negative
emotional appeal, the reductio
ad absurdum of the case for
planning.
The electorate was not pre-
pared to repeat the “Victory
Election” of 1919 and the
miserable procession of events
that followed World War I.
The voters preferred the Labor
party, and it took power for
five years.
Beaverbrook and his news-
papers loyally had upheld
Churchill and the Conserva-
tives and I had consistently
supported the Labor party.
Not for the first time the
“Evening Standard” and I had
been in flat opposition.
Yet, as should be in a
politically civilised community,
Opposite page—some of
Low’s “Bulletin” sport-
ing personalities.
that made no difference to
personal relations. It was a
stimulating experience to spend
one night at Cherkley listening
to Beaverbrook and Brendan
Bracken (both notoriously
concerned with the planning
of the Conservative campaign)
and another with Harold Laski
admiring his collection of old
seventeenth-century pamphlets.
MANY years before, I had
gone to dinner at H. G.
Wells’s flat. The other guests
were two talkative young
fellow's I had never met before
—Harold Laski and George
Catlin. Both of them talked
a lot. Sometimes unstoppable ;
so that H.G. could hardly get
a word in, and I had to retire
behind my knife and fork,
moaning “Heavens, will these
fellows never shut up?”
Curiously, although they
differed on many things, I lived
to enjoy cordial friendship with
both of them.
1 would be sitting at lunch
in some restaurant when the
small rosy face of Harold
Laski would appear over my
shoulder, earnest and a little
perspiring, eyes shining through
big spectacles—“ David! Oh,
David, you would be interested
to hear what Ernie Bevin said
today about your Wednesday’s
cartoon . . .” and from there
Harold would gossip on with
a monologue of chapter-length
on some aspect of current
public affairs which had noth-
ing to do with me or my
cartoon from any conceivable
angle.
Harold Laski’s platform
manner and utterance —feet
wide apart, unexpectedly strong
nasal voice—“Mistah Chah-
man . . .” were easy to parody,
and there were very few of
the bright boys who did not
include him in their imita-
tions. “And Frank said to me,
Harold . . .” “So I said to
Winston . ,
I had a warm spot for
Harold. Who, among those
who knew him, hadn’t? He
had no ambitions in active
policies. He was a teacher and
took pride in it. Like most of
his friends I treasure a heap
of correspondence in his
microscopically small hand-
writing about all sorts of things,
from the education of my


Sol Green, “wearing
his just-in-from-the-
country air.”
James Scobie, for over
half-a-century one of the
greatest trainers in the
land. Trained the winners
of four Melbourne Cups;
eight Victoria Derby
winners, four A.J.C. Derby
winners; 12 winners of the
Ascot Vale Stakes, and the
winners of 10 Bendigo
Cups. As a cross-country
jockey he won both G.N.
Hurdle and Steeple.
W. H. McLachlan, one
of Australia’s greatest
jockeys of any time, and
still a regular visitor at
Rand wick meetings. In
the 1909 season he dead-
heated in the Caulfield
Cup (on Aborigine), won
the Melbourne Cup (on
Prince Foote), the Wil-
liamstown Cup (on Kerlie),
the Sydney Cup (on
Vavasor), the Adelaide
Cup (on Medgalia), and
the Moonee Valley Cup
(on Kerlie). He rode two
other Melbourne Cup
winners—Comedy King
(1910) and Westcourt
(1917).
Jim Hackett; the original
Jim —the name’s still out
there in the Paddock.
“Well, blokes, I must admit this Cup has got me beat"
“Once [said an earlier
“Bulletin” caption ] the
greatest figure in the
bookmakers’ ring in Aus-
tralia.”
John Wren (above).
RIGHT: Frank
Dempsey, in the
season when, as a
15-year-old, he won
the Caulfield Cup on
I wendo. Today
Frank starts ’em in
Kiel bourne.


daughters to the private life
of Mr. Justice Holmes.
TT OOKING around the
political scene I felt old.
After the world war there
could be only anticlimax in the
return to home affairs, how-
ever interesting might be the
plans for social improvement.
To me Westminster lacked
the stimulus of novelty. There
were few of the ageing actors
on the Parliamentary stage I
did not know inside out. 1 had
seen most of them enter the
House of Commons raw, had
witnessed their making or
their marring.
As for the younger fry, I
had been hanging around
Westminster before some of
them were even born. It
seemed as though the curtain
was going up on my Second
Time on Earth.
I had exhausted the possi-
bilities of Churchill and there
was no longer pleasure in
drawing him. Eden had shaken
down to an unsensational
formula; Bevin had grown
too like his own caricature to
incite effort, although, irritat-
ingly enough, he resented my
version, and that t thought
ungrateful.
Attlee I had never been able
to get to know more than
slightly, which accounted for
my failure to abstract his
essence. From the day at
Margate when the party made
him leader, my impression was
of a tight-buttoned little man,
shy of ridicule. Someone had
told him I was an Australian,
so whenever we met he con-
fined the conversation to
cricket.
FOR the next year or so I
was restless and took every
opportunity to see at first-hand
what was happening in the
world. I had been vividly
conscious of the process of
change, not merely in the dis-
tribution of power but in the
organisation of human society.
The past was gone. Hitler had
not been far out when he fore-
told that the war would end
the old empires. There was
a new deal. The atom-bomb
had blown-up far more than
Hiroshima.
An acute observer present at
the time of the invention of
the wheel should have been
able from that point to deduce
the course of Man —the
development of industry, trade
rivalries, the rise and fall of
nations, power groups, <world
wars and readjustments, the
conquest of space, of time, of
life itself, and so on.
So far as the people of my
century were concerned, the
next chapter evidently was to
include two items: (a) the
rebirth of Asia ; and (6) the
development of forces which
could make a fool not only of
war but also of peace.
Was the centre of the world
destined to move eastwards?
Would the community of
nations control the bomb?
And if that miracle were
accomplished, and the new
energies were diverted to peace-
ful ends, how long could we
expect the wages system of
a “free” society to survive?
Would the Communist system
be insulated from embarrass-
ment, with its total control?
On the other hand, were not
Lend-Lease and Marshall Aid
hints that even hardshell capi-
talists could make revolu-
tionary readjustments to keep
their wheels turning? I was
curious to see how Man
would approach this future.
LIFE became a travel-
sketchbook with occa-
sional sidelights on the pros-
pects for democracy. Here is
a drawing made in a shattered
German town right after the
war. Streets heaped with
Again —that confounded bench of High Court judges!
First, On the say-so of Serle, it was 1 here stated (B.
6/2/’57) that Powers, ]., of the bench drawn by Low, was
“first Solicitor-General” for the Commonwealth. Next,
a polite, and persuasive, letter from one in Canberra
certainly in a position to know, pointing out that Sir
Robert Garran held that office from 1901 to 1932.
“ Correction” duly made (B . 20/5/’57). Next after that,
a note from another high authority in Canberra mildly
pointing out that the position of Solicit or-General was not
created until 1916, in which year R. R. Garran, C.M.G.,
appointed to the office, he having been from 1901
Secretary to the Attorney-General's Department and
Parliamentary Draftsman. To which all that needs to be
added is that this correspondence is now closed — unless,
of course, there is in Canberra an even higher authority
who niay know better, still.
rubble. I walked in a straight
line for half an hour; Every
house blasted. Nothing in
London like it. Hunched
young men with dead eyes,
sulky eyes, resentful eyes.
Obviously too early to draw
conclusions about the future.
The respect with which
somebody stopped the traffic
for me at a crossing was no
doubt a tribute to the strange-
ness of my war-correspondent’s
badge. Might have been
somebody important. Shops
with nothing in the window
but advertisement-cards. I
was struck by the number of
people trying to live on their
talents—artists particularly.
It was like trailing through
a cemetery followed by some-
one mumbling “Sketch your
portrait, Mister?”
This sketch was drawn on
my way to the Nuremberg
trials, via Frankfurt, in a
busted windowless railway-
carriage behind a lame engine,
sitting bent on a broken seat
in the dark surrounded by a
sinister company of black
shapes, fitfully lit by an occa-
sional station-lamp in passing.
The train broke-down four
times, cold as hell, snowing,
no nice cup of tea. Arrive at
last, am posted to what was
once a millionaire’s castle,
where I find all the special
correspondents of all the news-
papers I had ever heard of.
Aaaaah! Milk and sugar,
thank you.
*1 p v HERE is a story of a car-
toonist who, on seeing for
the first time in real-life *a
statesman whom he had been
drawing for years, asked:
“Who’s that?”
I recognised the men in the
dock at Nuremberg instantly,
but there were some things
about them that were unex-
pected. After what had hap-
pened I did not look, of course,
for a set of puffed-up speci-
mens of the Master Race in
fearsome uniforms with padded
shoulders, swastikas and high
heels ; but, on the other hand,
this lot seemed rather inade-
quate.
Very ordinary-looking, in
fact. If you saw them sitting
opposite you in the train you
would think all were normal.
Also they were much too
small. As we know, Nazi
leaders used to attach great
importance to their personal
“presentation,” and under their
rule the camera has evidently
become the most efficient liar
yet evolved.
Where is the great Goring,
the jingle of whose medals
used to keep the world awake
at nights? Tall, broad-
shouldered Hess, the very
pattern of Nazi body-culture?
Burly Streicher, who trod
millions under his sadist heel?
Well, Goring turns out to
be about sft. Bin., still fat
despite weight lost in ptison ;
jolly, you would say, until
you noticed the cruel cut of
his mouth; vital, with periods
of rumination when the
countenance is sicklied o’er
with desperate worry.
Goring stands out by a mile
as the boss in this company.
He is a restless prisoner, lean-
ing this way and that, flapping
his pudgy little hands about,
patting his hair, stroking his
mouth, massaging his cheeks,
resting his chin sideways on
the ledge of the dock.
Goring is not permitted to
make speeches, but he manages
to get a good deal of expres-
sion across with facial action.
Nods, shakes, and eye-play
suggestive of innocent li’l
Hermann wrongfully accused.
Sketchbook in hand, I was
examining Goring meticulously
when he turned his gaze and
hooked my eye. After about
twenty seconds of mutual
glaring it dawned upon me
that he was trying to stare me
down. 'The childish vanity of
it! How silly! (1 won, by the
way.)
*TPHE appearance of Hess
took me aback. Down to
skin-and-bone, going bald,
with eyes set in deep-sunken
cavities, he has a nervous
twitch and jerky movements.
If, as he now insists, he is
not mad, all I can say is that
he looks it.
Streicher, the obscene Jew-
baiter. Is that him? No
loathsome ape, but another
little man with another nervous
twitch. He has a trick of
throwing his head right back
and contemplating the ceiling
with an air of preoccupation
with Higher Things. In prison
Streicher has grown a fluff
of hair over his horrible bald-
ness, and this, catching the
light, gives him a kind of halo.
In a white nightgown he could
look a somewhat repulsive
saint.
In London once we used to
know as German Ambassador
one Ribbentrop. Later we
heard of him as the bawling
bully that gave Poland its
death-notice. Here he is now,
changed surprisingly into a
meek person like a family
solicitor, with disordered hair,
pursed lips and large spectacles,
fussing shakily with a sheaf
of papers.


*TT HE most pitiful figure in
the company is Funk.
Funk is the picture of funk.
With the earphones clamped
like horns to the fat, sick face
sagging into the small, dumpy
body, he is the perfect model
for a gargoyle. In color he
is light-green.
The coloring of the
prisoners, by the way, is to me
not the least revealing indica-
tion of the various emotional
states.
Rosenberg, for instance, is
yellowish; Frick, patchy
brown. If one were painting
the historic scene, one would
have to use a palette of drab
pigments.
It is remarkable how little
color there is in this spectacle
of the so-called “blond beast”
on trial.
The only reds I could find
in the composition were Seyss-
Inquart’s rusty hair and cheeks,
Jodi’s nose and the rims of
Goring’s eyes,
‘TpHE next most frightened, I
E should say, is Sauckel. He
is the cartoonist’s fat-necked,
square-headed German, but
on a small scale. His uneasi-
ness is painful to see.
To make up for him, at his
elbow is Baldur von Schirach,
the ex-pin-up boy of the Hitler
Youth. Still good-looking,
with his scornful, pitiless eye
and mean mouth like an
inverted V.
Runners-up for the “most-
perturbed-person” prize are
Frick, of the corrugated
countenance, and Schacht, who
is worried to pieces, too, lsu(
in a more refined way.
Papen looks more than
ever like a fox, shifting bif
tiny close-set eyes about the
room.
Opinions might differ
the award of “nastiest-person-
present,” but I should choose
Somerset Maugham, one more of the many superb caricatures in
David Low’s “New Statesman” series. In a recently arrived issue [?]
“Times Literary Supplement” refers to a book on Maugham for
collectors as “the first workmanlike guide to the published output
of the most widely collected of living English authors”


unhesitatingly Frank, the
butcher of Warsaw. He wears
a fixed sneer and mutters.
The proceedings in court
were prosaic and undramatic
while I was there, which was
how they should have been to
my way of thinking.
MO need to go far for the
next scene in the world
drama, for the United Nations
Organisation had thoughtfully
arranged to hold its first
Assembly at Church House,
London, just around the corner.
Tap, tap. Shoosh! The
Assembly is in session. Enter
the President, cherubic M.
Spaak. He’s dark-haired and
open-eyed, but otherwise he
could pass for Winston
Churchill’s younger brother..
He sits at an angle of 75
degrees, plump face on plump
hand, beaming at the delegates
of fifty-one nations airing
their eloquence for peace.
Here, or outside in his long
overcoat, a flat broad hat
pancaked on his head, he is
made for the cartoonists.
The - layout of delegates
follows no discernible plan.
The Poles, the Turks and the
Arabs have the best seats,
middle of first row. The
Americans sit to the extreme
left alongside the U.S.S.R. and
behind the U.K. “Ah, good
morning, Mr. Byrnes.” “Good
morning, Tom. Where the
heck did you get to last night?
Good morning, everybody.”
The Americans make noises
when they meet. Not like the
Russians, who greet silently, or
the British, who just nod and
growl “Hullo.”
Byrnes isn’t at all the English
idea of an American. An
unsensational figure, spare,
small, dignified, just a sugges-
tion of perkiness. With his
coat-tail curled, he could be
drawn as a bird.
TIN front the United Kingdom.
Our Bevin, of course, is our
“big” British personality,
physically and otherwise. He
looks as though he were about
to enter the ring for an all-in
wrestling-bout. Man-mountain
against all comers.
When “Uncle Ernie” has
something to say he champs ;
and when he is indignant he
snorts. Close to Bevin, his
second, Noel-Baker, the tall,
thin, eager idealist, and the
picturesque pocket-size red-
head Ellen Wilkinson.
The nearest thing to the
eyeglassed spatted Englishman
of American comedy is Sir
Alexander Cadogan of the
Foreign Office, who watches
the proceedings impassively
with a globous light-blue eye.
MEXT to the Americans kre
the Russians for contrast.
Unsmiling, solemn.
Gromyko looks surprisingly
youthful. Whatever he may be
like at home, in public he
seems a gloomy character.
They call him “Mr. Mourn-
ful.”
Vyshinsky, the Soviet top
man, is greyed blond with a
tight mouth, like Bevin in
build, except that he walks
with a proud chest, whereas
Bevin rolls like a battleship
from his knees. Behind
Vyshinsky’s thick - rimmed
glasses are pale little eyes that
don’t miss, much.
Manuilsky, of the Ukraine,
old Bolshevik friend of Lenin,
a nugget resembling Lloyd
MASARYK
George, with all the Gallic
movements.
Jan Masaryk, of Czecho-
slovakia, a large languid man
with a wistful look in his eye.
“Well?” I said to Jan, my
good friend.
“I don’t think they will,” he
said, leaving who and what to
be guessed.
AFTER conference hours I
went to cocktails with
Molotov. Surrounded by well-
brushed satellites, all wearing
glasses, he held on to my hand
and proceeded to run into what
seemed to be a short sermon
suitable to the occasion.
“What did his Excellency
say?” I asked.'
“He was very compli-
mentary and advised you to
go on as you have been going,”
answered an interpreter.
Since I had been kicking
Soviet policy soundly in the
pants, I could only conclude
that even a superman can’t
attend to everything, and he
hadn’t seen the papers.
TTT will always be interesting
“ to speculate on what might
have been had Soviet Russia
and the United States met in
genuine co-operation after the
war.
Optimists like myself might
reasonably have expected the
impact of the old culture on
the new to stimulate the best
and depress the worst in both.
Many problems of humanity
might have been solved with-
out tears upon sensible lines at
last.
On the most material plane
the junction would certainly
have been mutually profitable,
besides incidentally raising the
standard of living for the
whole world. The end of
nightmare-bombs and the be-
ginning of atomic prosperity.
But no. These are the con-
ceptions of sentimentalists
concerned with the promptings
of the heart. The “practical”
men must have
their “hard facts”
for their hard
heads.
Yet even on the
lowest plane, view-
ing the world as
a chessboard for
cunning play to win
group-advantage, a
genuine Russo-
American associa-
tion in 1945, with
America in friendly,
generous, admiring
mood, had better
possibilities for
Russia than for
America. But the
automatic chess-
player had been set
long before for a
different line of play. The
Stalin policy had been to
ensure Soviet security by form-
ing a chain of buffer States
across Europe. The world
might change, the policy might
be outmoded, but it remained.
Any intelligent political
tipster ought to have been able
to foresee the consequences
that had inevitably, as night
follows day, to flow from the
Russian immutability: the
replacement of goodwill by
suspicion, the bedevilment of
the peace,, the cold war,
rearmament, Nato and the
rest. For a space the Iron
Curtain became formidably
solid, with the propaganda-
screen so transparent as to be
almost ludicrous. The decade
of Utter Humbug was upon
us, when step by step it be-
came more necessary for each
side to pretend that the other
had no virtue but only villainy.
WHILE the air was in-
creasingly filled with
denunciations of warmonger-
ing hyenas on the one hand
and bestial tyrants on the
other; while the rights and
wrongs of “incidents” were
disputed in make-believe as
though the aims were to serve
justice and not some extraneous
strategy ; and while the scene
teemed with the comings and
goings of “peace-loving” dele-
gations whose love of peace
partook too much of one-sided
sacrifice, I never found any
Communist I met that made
a dead secret of the “line” in
private.
I hooked Bill Rust, for
instance, editor of the “Daily
Worker,” at a party.
“What’s the idea, Bill?” I
asked. “Your people aim
eventually to spread right
across Europe to the
Channel?”
“Of course,” said Bill, giving
me a pitying look.
TURN the page. I am in
beautiful Prague with my
daughter Prue for company,
being made a fuss of,,a guest
of the Government.
This is not quite behind the
Iron Curtain yet, but halfway.
Everybody seems to be talking
politics, indoors, up the street,
all hours of the night. The
Minister of Information de-
livers a speech of welcome to
me and makes me an official
presentation of a pile of books,
and glass-
ware. (Applause.)
So thai tneie should be no
mistake, I made a speech, too,
explaining that all my own
poor efforts had been directed
to a victory for freedom of
thought and expression. My
host’s face of smiling approval
does not change a muscle. I
learned later that he did not
understand English.
I took Prue out to dinner
with Jan Masaryk, who was
then Foreign Minister in
that uncomfortable Czecho-
slovakian set-up. A grand-
piano took up more space than
the table in one of these two
rather untidy rooms (bed and
reception) which Jan used for
living in behind the imposing
staircase, halls and bare cold
offices of his Ministry at the
Czerny Palace.
“Are you happy?” he said.
“Well, I’d be happier if I
had a good cigar,” I said.
“Wait,” he said, going down
and groping under the bed and
coming up with a cigar-box.
(Funny place to keep cigars, I
thought, and how much more
interesting history would be
if it were illustrated with
unconventional portraits of the
butt-ends of Foreign Ministers
o Continued on page 57)


THE SKOWPLACES
€F AUSTRALIAN RACING
THE AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB'S
UP-TO-DATE AND COMFORTABLE
RACECOURSES
WORLD-FAMOUS
RANDWICK
Three miles from the
heart of the City.
Saturday - 20th April
Monday - 22nd April
Thursday - 25th April
Saturday - 27th April
WARWICK FARM
Australia’s most modern
and best-appointed Race-
course, set in delightful
surroundings on the Hume
Highway, near Liverpool.
Wednesday - Bth May
Wednesday 29th May
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
'THE A.J.C. will distribute at
least £62,000 in prizemoney
over the four days of its
autumn carnival, which opens
next Saturday with the running
of the £6OOO Doncaster Handi-
cap, the £5OOO Sires’ Produce
Stakes, the £3OOO St. Leger,
and the £2500 Autumn Stakes.
The £12,500 Sydney Cup will
be decided on Easter Monday.
As Anzac Day this year falls
during the currency of the
fixture, the third day of the
carnival will be Thursday
(April 25) instead of the usual
Wednesday.
It is eight years since a Don-
caster favorite won the race —
Bern brook (4-to-l), in 1949.
The only other winning
favorites in the mile over the
past 25 years were Kingsdale
(1943), Gold Rod (1939), Hall
Mark (1935) and Winooka
(1933). Only five Cup favorites
have scored in the past 25
years; Sailor’s Guide, last
autumn, was one of them.
For the Doncaster: Kingster,
1 ; King’s Fair, 2 ; Decisive, 3.
For the Sydney Cup: Even-
ing Peal, 1 ; Lycidas, 2 ; Monte
Carlo, 3.
Teranyan had his first win in
seven months when he
narrowly defeated the late-
finishing Fire Dust and Gentle
Lu in the Warwick Farm Liver-
pool Handicap. It was an
improvement on prior displays;
a drop in weight and a more
suitable distance were strong
factors in the success. A
brilliant track-gallop at Rose-
bery 10 days before the race —
one of the best trials for
months —was a pointer to
Saturday’s effort. Teranyan is
popular for the Doncaster
Handicap, but in the past year
or so he has been unlucky in
big races, both in Brisbane and
ift Sydney.
N.Z.-bred and -owned horses
are again likely to play a big
part in the Randwick prize-
distribution ; on form, they’re
well represented. Two of the
beaten division at Warwick
Farm could be interesting Don-
caster runners King’s Fair
and Decisive. The former was
the medium of a late betting
move for the Liverpool Handi-
cap ; he quickly firmed from
10’s to third favoritism at 9-
to-2. Jumbled-up in a tight
field in the last furlong, he
failed to get a clear run and
wound-up sixth. But the run
was one to be noted for Rand-
wick, especially should the
going be holding. Decisive,
forced to travel wide in the
Cabramatta Handicap, was
right back in the field after a
couple of furlongs, then
finished a close sixth, not far
from winner, Yes Please. He
had 9.1 (topweight), and drops
to 8.7. in the Doncaster, in
which he finished third last
year with 8.2.
In most . years a class
three-year-old strikes the
right form to compete with
success in the A.J.C. St. Leger
(If mile), then tackle all-
comers in the two-miles Sydney
Cup. Sailor’s Guide won both
events last season, and Monte
Carlo is expected to land the
St. Leger next Saturday, then
make a bold bid for the Cup
two days later. Other three-
year-olds to bring-.off the
double include Carbon Copy
(1949), Lucrative (1941)* Mosaic
(1939) and Winalot (1928).
• • • •
A few weeks ago the
imported five-year-old stallion
Lycidas, son of a noted stayer
Alycidon, was just another
moke around town ; but
quick all-the-way wins at Rose-
hill (If mile ; restricted com-
pany, with 8.6) and Warwick
Farm (If mile; open class,
7.5) brought him right into
Sydney Cup calculations.
Trained at Rosebery by
Norman Brown; Lycidas is now
fully acclimatised—and he is
bred to stay the two miles. His
7.5 at the Farm represented
five pounds over handicap-
weight ; but the stable wanted
his usual jockey, Barry Modn,
in the saddle, and Moon got
him up in brilliant style. Lycidas
has 7.1 in the Sydney Cup and
Moon may have to again
declare up to four pounds over.
Redcraze, idol of the Aus-
tralian racing crowd, was
easily defeated into third place
in the w.-f.-a. Chipping Norton
Stakes over the Warwick Farm
mi 1 e-and-a-quarter. There’s
some consolation in the fact
that other champions have been
tossed when they looked to
have a mortgage on a weight-
for-age or handicap-event;
Phar Lap and Ajax, for
instance. And there was no
fluke about the win of Mac’s
Amber at the Farm. The Mel-
bourne galloper led all the way,
and ran record time for the
course —2.3 9-10. When Mac’s
Amber won the Alister Clark
Stakes the critics lauded the
heady riding of Arthur Ward ;
on Saturday Jack Thompson
was given a burst for a fine
judgment of pace ; but, maybe
Mac’s Amber, after all, isn’t
such a bad moke.
The Warwick Farm Sappho
Stakes —three-year-old fillies ;
level weights, 8.7 —drew a
smart field of 12, and prompted
keen wagering between
Sandara, Lady Orator and
Notre Pride. As winner of the
V.R.C. Kewney Stakes (1-j-
-mile) Sandara was entitled to
favoritism, and she won in
good style. Notre Pride failed
as a miler, but Lady Orator’s
third was a fair effort; she
should do better over the extra
distance of the Adrian Knox
Stakes. She was the only
winner at 12 furlongs in last
Saturday’s field. Lady Orator,
trained at Randwick by Jack
Green, won the Perth Derby in
December last—something to
remember when the Adrian
Knox Stakes comes up.
Banned because of bad
barrier manners from racing
in the Sydney metropolitan
area, The Corsican worked his
passage via wins at Wagga and
Corowa to Moonee Valley last
Saturday. After carrying up to
10.6 in his country victories,
he appreciated the drop to
8.10, and was untroubled to
defeat a smart field of sprinters
in the Mentone Handicap. At
time of writing, his connections
are trying to have the ban
lifted to enable him to contest
the Doncaster. Should that
appeal fail, he’ll be a popular
choice in the 7-furlongs Vic-
toria Handicap next Saturday.
Racing against his own age,
the three-year-old Inner Spring
hasn’t been out of a place in
his last five starts. His victory
in the Eltham Handicap last
Saturday showed that he
possesses courage as well as
ability. Badly pocketed on the
turn, he was pulled to the
outside and responded well to
Barclay’s vigorous riding. He
will now tackle open company
in the Sandown Cup on
Easter Monday. Inner Spring
is by Ottoman out of Miss
Thaura, and as the Ottoman-
stock improve with racing, he
may prove more than useful.
Next season, for the first
time, geldings will be eligible
to run in the Derbies. A sound
staying performance in the
Balwyn Handicap indicated
that Good Summer, a showy
chestnut by Summertime out
of Good Sense, might be Derby
material. He ghowed all the
stamina of the Summertime
breed by running past the well-
performed Sports Quiz, who
had led clearly into the short
Valley straight. Good Summer
will have a further staying test
in a mile event at Flemington,


s» •
■’
try iff...
you'll like iff!
A/PW
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH A CO LIMITED
K8.167.1S
and will then be spelled until
the spring.
* * *
A field that included some
of the best harness-horses in
Australasia toed the line at
Sydney’s Harold Park on
Saturday night in the Harold
Park Free-for-All—final hit-out
for Thursday night’s Lord
Mayor’s- Cup. Despite the
quality of the field, the dash-
ing Enzedder Caduceus was
sent out, in his record-break-
ing fettle, at 9-to-4-on, favorite.
Slow to move, he was never-
theless eased by driver Watts
into what looked a formidable
position ; but when he came in
the last lap of the 11| furlongs
to take-on the pacemaker, Sky
High, he found the task, in a
gruelling two-horse finish, a
head beyond him. Sky High,
victorious in recent weeks over
some of the best local talent,
raised his brilliance in his first
test against class horses to a
level that stamps him the best
prospect in years.
They put the trip behind
them in 3.7 f —a 2.7 f bat. Sky
High’s pace was sizzling;
driver Binskin’s judgment was
superb. Sky High goes from
the scratch mark in the Lord
Mayor’s Cup furlongs) ;
Caduceus is asked to stand him
36yds. Radiant Venture,
who, after an early knock, did
well to finish six lengths away
third in the free-for-all, is on
12yds. in the Cup, and from
there looks Sky High’s hardest.
A winner of three Trotters’
Cups at Harold Park carnivals,
Para Rip was handicapped on
108yds. in his fourth attempt
on Saturday. He shied and
broke early, then unwound one
of the gallant finishing bursts
that have made him a Harold
Park idol, but could finish only
third to the Victorian mare,
Carlotta’s Pride, and former
N.Z. mare Sandan. Carlotta’s
Pride, who went from 24yds.,
is, when she decides to trot, one
of the best exponents of her
gait in the business ; and in the
Cup she trotted as if she’d
never made a mistake in her
life, and won well.
4“ 4“
Results of a few more
Heads-of-the-Rivers, rowed
last Saturday. Melbourne, at
Henley -on - Yarra: Geelong
College (for the third successive
year), 1 ; Scotch, 2 ; Xavier, 3.
Adelaide, on Torrens Lake: St.
Peter’s, 1 ; Scotch, 2. Tas-
mania, on the Derwent:
Hutchins School (first win in
15 years), 1 ; St. Virgil’s, 2.
* * *
Sydney Rugby Union’s
second-round match -of - the -
day, between Gordon, last
year's premiers, and Eastwood,
was a walkover for the power-
ful Gordon side, 37-0. Gordon,
which in the two rounds has
piled-up 65 points to 3 against,
scored eight tries against East-
wood ; and its tally could have
been greater if its two goal-
kickers, Graham and Clinton,
had not each several times just
failed to put it through (six of
the tries were in the corner).
It’ll take a good team to beat
the Tartans. Eastwood held
Gordon to 9-0 at half-time, one
try only, scored just on the
interval; but a try by Jim
Phipps in the first minute or
two of the second half, when
he ran through half-a-dozen
Eastwood men without having
a finger laid on him, was the
pattern for the rest of the game.
Second-row forward Barry
Clinton, central figure in the
“He plays for us ; no, he plays
for them; yes, he plays for
us” residential argument which
had kept him out of Gordon’s
first-round game, played solidly
if doing nothing spectacularly ;
apart, that is, from a spanking
penalty-goal from over half-
way. In the other games,
Manly beat Parramatta 21-17,
East just held off Drummoyne,
11-6, Randwick had no great
trouble with North, 17-5, and
St. George toppled University,
15-5.
* * *
The second round of Sydney's
Rugby League comp, was a
lively one. In the Sydney
Cricket Ground match-of-the-
day last year’s premiers, St.
George, took a thorough
hiding from the boys of the
Western Suburbs, and, into the
bargain, had their hooker and
captain, Ken Kearney, sent in
for first-use-of-the-showers for
rough play. At this point the
Saints were properly rattled by
the precision of the Western
Suburbs play. For the winners,
Patch struck a purple patch of
form, and was a .tireless
forward ; O’Shea and Charlton
showed dash and initiative;
the entire backline functioned
smoothly; and the try that
full-back Darcy Russell scored
was a fitting reward for a fine
exhibition of full-back play.
In other matches, Newtown
ran wild, 42-7, against Parra-
matta ; Norths played con-
structive football to toss
Souths, 17-9 ; Manly, a premier-
ship hope, overwhelmed Bal-
main, 20-5 ; Easts put Canter-
bury away, 15-11.
DUNLEAVY'S GYM
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
(Continued)
DRE-WAR, Dunleavy’s
A always seemed full to burst-
ing. Dick Humphries, black-
browed, limber, with his dark
hair parted in the middle, shoot-
ing out a rapid left-hand. Dick,
cne of Dunleavy’s pupils, had
his first pro. fight in 1934, and


won the State welter’ title the
following year.
Also, there then the
Alabama Kid; Kingfish
Dixon, the colored American
welter,, wandering in with a
pipe ; and the less-well-known
boxers, such as the American
Red Farmer, who did nothing
special in the ring when he was
out here, but impressed me by
showing me his deputy-sheriff’s
badge and telling me that in
his home-town he always
carried a gun.
These days, Jack more-or-
less concentrates on amateurs,
among them a number of
schoolboys.
He had always had school-
boys. Mothers liked him. And
his reputation as a trainer of
amateurs goes back a long way.
At one Australian amateur
championship tournament the
winner of every division but
one was trained and seconded
by Dunleavy: in the exception,
Dunleavy’s candidate was
narrowly beaten in the finals.
Jack pointed out items of
interest on the walls. Jack
Dempsey, on a poster, look-
ing aggressive. He’d seen
Dempsey lose a home-town
decision to Willie Meehan in
San Francisco. Dempsey was
on the way up then. What did
he think of him? “Pretty
crude.”
Kearns made Dempsey
—made him use his left hand.
Kearns used to bring fighters
out to Australia.
On the wall, too, Eddie
McGoorty . . . Young Sam
Langford. “I fought Young
Sam Langford in America,”
said Jack. Was he anything
like the great Sam Langford,
whom Jack Johnson beat but
refused to fight again? Jack
smiled and shook his head. No,
nothing like that.
It was a scrappy conversa-
tion, because now the amateurs
were drifting in. “Hey,
Jack . . .” And Jack would go
to attend to this or that. “Mind
you, boxing is cruel when two
men are badly matched,” he
began promisingly, and was
called away.
We wandered along the
walls. A batch of old-timers —
John L., Jake Kilrain, Paddy
Ryan, James J. Corbett ; and,
as contrast, a “Joe Palooka”
comic - strip in which a
recognisable Jack Dunleavy
and this same gymnasium
appeared.
A photograph of Tod
Morgan, addressed to the “best
second in the world.” The
clever American, a junior light-
weight champion of the world,
trained here and had a very
high opinion of Dunleavy as a
second.
So did Maxie Rosenbloom ;
and so, apparently, did
Ambrose Palmer, because in
1931 Dunleavy was seconding
Palmer in a fight with Fred
Henneberry. Palmer won. The
year before Haines had
AMBROSE PALMER
collapsed in the ring when
fighting Palmer (Dunleavy says
he was sick and shouldn’t have
fought) and was taken to
hospital. He never fought
again, but, in 1931, Haines and
Dunleavy were getting £4O a
week giving sparring-exhibi-
tions in city theatres. Others
there: Tommy Fairhall, who
had won the welterweight
championship from Wally
Hancock, retired undefeated ;
and another Dunleavy pupil,
Alf Blatch (later lightweight
champion).
Maxie Rosenbloom . . . how
did he train? Was he really a
playboy?
Jack grinned broadly. Maxie
was smart. If anyone saw
Maxie with a glass of beer in
his hand, it was because Maxie
wanted it seen. And he might
hold the same glass of beer all
night. ’ ’
Now a couple of boys were
shadow-sparring in the raised
ring. Other figures moving
around, working. The ratatat
of the speed-ball, the whine
of a skipping-rope, the creak of
chain as someone banged the
heavy bag, making the over-
head rafter shudder. Cheerful
sounds.
We had a yarn with Johnny
Norton, who had been training
with particular intensity. Every
time he lashed out, shadow-
sparring, or hit the bag, lie
gave a kind of whoop.
Johnny is z 6, a policeman
(Safety Bureau), middleweight,
amateur, and was training for.
trials ‘ for the South African
trip. He started competitive
boxing at 16, had his first
tuition early—in fact, Jack had
him on the diagram when he
was eight.
A lifesaver, Johnny was
sweep of the Dee Why crew,
Wasn’t that bad for boxings—
different conditioning of
muscles? He grinned, adjusted
the lifesaving-cap on his sweat-
ing head. Well, it was a sport,
He liked boxing. He liked
the surfboat, too.
No, he didn’t drink or smoke,
Was always fit, more-or-less.
What about training? There
he was guided, by Jack, day by
day. He might come in and
do 10 rounds, hard. On the
other hand, if he put on the
gloves with Barnes, for
instance, Jack might tell him to
knock off after a short bout.
Four rounds with Barnes, on
some days, might be harder
than 10 rounds training.
Heavyweights and light-
heavies . . . why didn’t Aus-
tralia produce them, someone
wanted to know. By now the
talk had become general. The
majority opinion was lack of
competition. In America, a
heavyweight could get all the
fights he wanted. “Take Bruce
Farthing,” said Johnny. “In
my opinion he’s a really good
iight-heavyweight. But he
couldn’t get fights here, and
had to go abroad.”
In Dunleavy’s room at the
JOHNNY NORTON “training with particular intensity ."
Catholic Club in Castlereagh-
street the subject of heavy-
weights came up again.
“There’s population—more
competition,” Jack said. “In
the United States a heavy-
weight might be fighting once
a week; he'might even fight
more often. And big men, you
know, they’re often self-
conscious.”
“Self-conscious?”
“Yes. Kind of shy. They
don’t let themselves go.”
Well, of course, competition
would do that . . .
I had gone to the club in
the evening, at Dunleavy’s
suggestion. It was easier to
talk ; he kept his scrapbooks in
his room. The building had
been the old Gaiety, he told
me, where he had had his first
professional fight,
Who were the best fighters
he had seen? He listed them:
“Jack Johnson, Mike Gibbons,
Les Darcy, Jack Haines, Ron
Richards.”
There was talk of matching
Darcy with Gibbons. In the
scrapbook there is a letter from
Dunleavy to W. F. Corbett,
printed in the “Referee,”
giving his first impressions of
Gibbons, when they both
boxed in exhibitions in the
same hall: “He is certainly a
speed-ball, and as , clever as
they claim him to be ; but you
can’t get a line in exhibitions.”
Johnson—a master . . . The
famous knockout by Willard,
was Johnson shamming?
“No, I don’t think so. He
was past it then. And didn’t
he send a message to his wife
to leave, just before the end?,
He knew.”
I mentioned anothef
champion.
“No. He was knocked about,
shows signs of it now. So you
couldn’t say he was a great
boxer, could you?”
But, then, maybe that fighter
had the one fight too many.
[To be concluded)


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The Royal Easter Show is on again
with all its staple features as well as many
new attractions (which include stream-
lined pigs and walking fish). Jt was said
that the numbers were down last Saturday
on last year’s figures, but it did not seem
so to this Letter as she was borne on a
tide of human beings up the steps of the
Handcrafts Pavilion (the erstwhile French
Pavilion) and became becalmed behind
what she thought was a sturdy child but
which turned out to be a cypress-pine in a
tub.
However, on the upper floor there was
ampie room to see the exhibits, now
beautifully displayed in well-lit cases. At
the decorated cakes, to be sure, the con-
gestion was intense, but a little patience
and refined shoving brought one
wondrous glimpses of a Noah’s Ark with
a giraffe's head through the roof, a gay
merry-go-round, a peacock, a trio of
cakes that spelt out M-U-M, and, of
course, the prizewinning jewel-case with
lacy fan.
Many of these designs are done on
wooden blocks “because they take so
long to do, and the cakes may deteriorate
before they are finished.” Somehow this
does not seem quite fair, because no
matter how beautiful a cake is, it fails
its purpose if it cannot be eaten. Perhaps
the section should be called “Iced wooden
blocks’’ and the real cake-icers, who are
speedy as well as deft, would have a
better chance.
It was interesting to see that a boy-
doll won the prize for the best-dressed.
He was certainly well-turned-out in
smocked shirt, pants and stitched-hat by
Miss E. Higgins. There is a pretty little
Snow Queen from “Swan Lake,” a
beautiful big doll dressed as a Victorian
Lady whom one seemed to recognise as
having been a peasant last year (she has
come up in the world), and a charming
setting of old-fashioned ladies in a hat-
shop.
The champion piece of embroidery was
Miss M. Marsh’s tray-cloth, and for
modern embroidery Mrs. P. M. Hotchin
carried off the prize with an exquisite
piece of applique work representing the
Olympic crest.
A new section for entries done by
people over 60 years of age brought some
impressive entries.- —Mrs. J. Holland’s
knitted-work won applause. Many of the
viewers seemed to think that the work
had to be over 60 years of age, an error
that might have been pardoned had
it been applied to some of the too-often-
shown baby-clothes.
There are more demonstrations in the
Handcrafts l J avilion this year, at the New
Australians’ interesting exhibit, the Red
Cross basket-making and the pottery-
exhibits (all in subtle, subdued colors).
These demonstrations attract much notice
and are well worth the attention.
The Peter Pan Dinner Dance at
Prince’s brilliantly opened Sydney’s gay
Easier social-season. President Mrs.
Norman Hill, looking very handsome in
black lace draped with an ice-blue stole,
welcomed the guests, who included
English visitor Lord Hereford and about
300 of Sydney’s well-knowns. Highlight
of the evening was the blind-date dance
at midnight, when people sought their
partners by numbers, and Tivoli dancer
Julia Darvas awarded a prize to the most
attractive couple dancing. Noticed
Gillaine Lindsay-Bell among the finalists,
also Beth Campbell, who with her. hand-
some partner looked a certainty to win,
but when the music changed to a Charles-
ton Beth's impressive display could not
compensate for her partner’s not being
able to do the steps at all, and the prize
went to Phoebe Macarthur-Onslow and
Duncan Osborne. Proceeds of this func-
tion are in aid of the Peter Pan Free
Kindergarten.
Cornelia Brain, one of Sydney’s most
gifted young pianists, is giving a farewell
recital at the Conservatorium on
Monday, April 29. She leaves for London
shortly to further her studies, having won
the Pedley Woolley McMenamin Scholar-
ship for two years at the Royal College of
Music. When she graduated from the
Conservatorium with the Performer's
Diploma she won the prize for the most
distinguished student of the year, and she
was a Commonwealth finalist in the
A.B.C. Concerto Competition last year.
Cornelia is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Vivian Brain of Killara (her papa is an
authority on atomic power). Her’photo
is by Norton Trevaire.
At the Peter Pan were Mr. and Mrs.
Michael Jones, whose baby daughter
Lisa was to be christened the following
day at St. Joseph's, Edgecliff. The babe’s
godfather, Tom Reynolds, was also in the
party with fiancee Jennifer Roche,
Gordon Stewart and Adelaide visitor
Rosetta Angas-Parsons, whose prowess at
the Charleston and rock-and-roll was
somewhat spectacular.
f* i* ii
The old-fashioned word “scrumptious”
came to mind at the sight of the dishes
prepared by members of the St.
Margaret’s Hospital social-committee for
their luncheon at the Sheridan,
Woollahra, on Wednesday. There was
probably a great exchanging of recipes
after the party, at which hypnotist
Franquin was guest-of-honor, and some
lovely furs were heroically paraded (it
was 88 degrees!) by Mrs. J. Farrington,
Mrs. Bob Mclnerney and Miss Loretta
Stevenson. Hostess to the 70 guests was
Mrs Garth Hay.
☆ ☆ ☆
Flaving dashed from the St. Margaret’s
luncheon and Franquin's hypnotic eye,
this reporter nearly went into a state of
trance gazing at Margel Hinder's “Con-
struction” at the Contemporary Art
Society's Show at David Jones’ Gallery.
This is a most fascinating object, a huge
metal ball, intricately constructed, that
shifts and changes all the time. Architect
Harry Seidler, the opener of the show,
spoke against frames lor modern pictures.
But if they are abandoned, what will
happen to the auctioneers who say "The
frame alone is worth the money”? There
was not a particularly large attendance
at the opening. Perhaps it was too hot
for contemporary-art, which is really
very exhausting and problem-type.
# #
The Manx Community of N.S.W., who
are about 100 strong, gathered twice
on Sunday to hear talks on the folklore
of the lsfe of Man by Mr. S. Jackson
Coleman, who with Mrs. Coleman
stopped-off at Sydney for two days of a
world tour. The meetings were held at
St. Jude's Hall, Randwicx, as the presi-
dent of the community, Mr. J. E.
Kneale, is the verger at St. Jude's. He
and secretary Theo Quine, with treasurer
S. Senogles, are themselves founts of
information about affairs of the- isle of
Man, which apparently has an impressive
number of "firsts” of quite diverse nature
—for example, the first Derby (run in
the time of James 1) and the first Sunday-
school in the British Empire.
* ☆ ☆
Mrs. Leslie Bury received three posies
at the party given for her husband and
herself by the Liberal Party Conference
at the Monash Hut during the week. One
of tuberoses she pinned to her deep
guipure-lace collar, while she held the
bouquet of roses presented by one of the
600 guests. The third posy, a Victorian
arrangement of flowers from the top of
Mt. Kosciusko, had been specially made
by Mrs. Millard Hagon. Mr. Bury, the
member for Wentworth, and Mrs. Bury
were introduced to the guests by
conference-president Jock Pagan, assisted
by Mrs. Pagan and Mrs. Jane Bernays.


MELBOURNE
At the second of the receptions given
at Government House by • Sir Dallas
Brooks and Lady Brooks before their
leaving for England in the Iberia next
Wednesday (April 24) her ’- Excellency
chose a white satin gow'n sprigged with
tiny pink flowers ; the fitted bodice
featured a wide neckline, and the wide
skirt had the fullness drawn to the back.
It was worn with a diamond-tiara. Mrs.
Henry Bolte, wife of the Premier, wore
a full-*skirted gown of white pure silk
appliqued with a black motif. A beauti-
ful pink ostrich-feather fan was carried by
Mrs. Dolly Guy Smith, whose gown w'as
of pastel-pink chiffon. Mrs. Everard
Baillieu’s pale-blue delustred satins were
patterned in tiny blue flowers ; the draped
bodice of deeper-blue taffeta bared one
shoulder and finished in a floating drape
which formed a stole.
Mrs. Norman Robinson’s striking
gown was of white satin patterned in pink
roses and green leaves. Mrs; Peter
Hovvson’s pastel-pink satins were
embroidered w'ith matching satin motifs
outlined with pearls and sequins. Mrs.
Leo Curtis chose dove-grey satin
embroidered with silver sequins. Lady
Wackett’s grey gown was embroidered
on the bodice with moonstones and
silver-sequins. Mrs. Reg Ansett chose a
short frock of finely pleated organza over
pink, and the skirt had a short overskirt
of pink lace.
Mrs. John Carrodus was attractively
gowned in silver-grey satin. Mrs. Paddy
Moran's wide-skirted gown was of apple-
green silk-taffeta.
Younger guests included Mrs. Robert
Gardiner, whose hydrangea-blue satin
frock was slim with a wide pleated hem-
line ; Marion McPherson, who wore
petal-pink satin ; twin sisters Elizabeth
and Patricia Mildred, both in satin, the
former white, Patricia’s pastel-blue;
Elizabeth Trumble, in white tulle ;
Patrizia Serafini, her white silk frock pat-
terned in tiny red flowers, and with red
velvet finishing the strapless bodice.
V # #
The Dorchester was the setting for a
party for 300 given by Capt. J. A. Gage,
U.S. Naval Attache, and Mrs. Gage, and
Lieut. Robert Brumsted, Asst. Attache,
and Mrs. Brumsted. The gathering gave
the opportunity for guests not only to
bid farewell to Lieut. Brumsted and his
wife, who leave for San Francisco in the
Orcades on April 24, but to welcome
Lieut. Brumsted’s successor, Lieut. John
C. Marsh. Mrs. Gage wore a short frock
of smoke-grey chiffon in which she pinned
a spray of gardenias. Mrs. Brumsted’s
choice was a frock of deep-jadergreen
self-patterned tie-silk.
Among the guests were U.S.- Consul-
General Gerald Warner and Mrs.
Warner, Chief Secretary Arthur Rylah,
Lieut.-General Sir Sydney Rowell and
Lady Rowell, U.S. Consul William Bush-
waller and Mrs. Bush waller, Netherlands
Naval Attache Capt. F. G. H. van
Straaten, M.R.C. secretary John Reilly
and Mrs. Reilly, Dr. and Mrs. Arnold
Richardson, and Mr. and Mrs. W. Tresise.
Mrs. John Buckland of Brighton, who
has been secretary-companion to Lady
Brooks for more than two years, is a
great favorite with the many people who
regularly go to Government House. Her
husband John, an honorary A.D.C. to
the Governor, was formerly in the
R.A.A.F., and his adventures as a p.-o.-w.
in Italy are recorded in his book,
“Adriatic Adventure.” Mr. and Mrs.
Buckland have two children, Anne and
Marie Louise, both at school.
Although Melbourne Grammar School
crew were eliminated in the heats of the
Head of the River, it did not dampen the
spirits of the Old Boys at the dance held
in the University’s Union House. Colored
lights illuminated the shrubs, greenery
and autumn flowers. Four models of
racing-eights, complete with crews and
oars, were set against the walls of the
buffet, and streamers and balloons in
Grammar colors were used in the decora-
tions. An amusing touch was provided
by the many sketches (the “1 Hate Skool”
motif) which" Pam Smith had done. The
committee responsible for the decora-
tions was headed by Marilyn Cottrell and
Margaret Adamson.
President of the committee, Rodney
Davidson, received the official guests, who
included the secretary of the Old Mel-
burnians, Air-Vice-Marshal W. Ander-
son, and Grammar’s Headmaster, B. W.
Hone, and Mrs. Hone. Sue Pitman and
Norman Carlyon were ticket-secretaries.
Guard-of-honor for the 400 guests was
supplied by the school cadets. Among
the many pretty girls at the dance were
Noelle Davidson, whose short frock was
patterned in red roses outlined with
matching sequins,; Angela Foster (Evan-
dale, Tas.), wearing a bouffant frock of
watermelon-pink silk-organza ; Marilyn
Cottrell, in a lovely frock of powder-blue
Swiss-embroidered organdie ; Prudence
Elder, her pale-lilac silk-faille frock hav-
ing a cluster of violets and white roses at
the back of the waist; Helen Gibson, her
short strapless frock of. white crochet-
lace ; and Penny Lane, whose white red-
spotted short frock had push-up sleeves.
☆ ☆ ☆
Many of the guests at the luncheon
given by Mrs. S. P. Kroussos (assisted by
her sister, Mrs. Z. A. Economou) for
Mrs. W. K. Burnside—who leaves shortly
on a world-trip—are members of the
Royal Melbourne Hospital Almoner-
ambulance auxiliary, of which Mrs.
Burnside is president. The reception-
rooms of Mrs. Kroussos’s Parkville home
were massed with autumn flowers. The
guest-of-honor wore an anthracite-and-
lavender brocade-faille suit, and similar
colors were used in her swathed satin
toque. Both hostesses wore black
ensembles. ' Among the guests were
Mrs. Burnside’s daughter, Mrs. David
Raeburn Brown, of Rosewood (N.S.W.),
the Lady Mayoress (Lady Selleck), Lady
Warner, Lady Bridgeford, Lady Teasdale,
Lady Coates, Lady Angliss, Mrs.
Geoffrey Macartney, Mrs. R. F. Fogarty,'
Mrs. George Sheppard, Mrs. Ralph
Bryant and Mrs. Sydney Brunning.
/ ☆ ☆ ☆
The Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
(Sir Frank and Lady Selleck) gave a
dinner-party at the Hotel Australia for
Mr. and Mrs. W. K. Burnside before they
leave for abroad. Present also were the
son-in-law and daughter of the host and
hostess (Mr.- and Mrs. Geoffrey Tolson),
and another daughter, Mrs, David
Raeburn Brown ; also Sir Arthur and
Lady Warner, Mr. and Mrs. Earl Daum,
Mr. and Mrs. L. L Dooling, and Mr. and
Mrs. Norman Strange.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Bryan Foster, of Toorak, is in
Sydney for six weeks with her son-in-
law and daughter, Mr. and Mrs. Colin
Venables* of Clifton Gardens. On her
return Mrs. Foster will go on a holiday
to Singapore with her brother and his
wife, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Main, of Mt.
Eliza, and Mr. and Mrs. Eric Duckett,
of Malvern.
CANBERRA
An interesting meeting was that of the
Professional and Business Women's
Club ; Mr: L. C. Key, deputy-librarian
of the National Library, gave an address
on Pakistan, where he was for some time
library consultant to its Government,
on loan from Australia under the
Colombo Plan. Senator Agnes Robert-
son, of Perth, was among the visiting
P. and B. club-members. It was decided
at the meeting that Miss Betty Jackson,
M.8.E., M.V.0., founder and first presi-
dent of the local club, be presented with
the gold International Federation Badge
in recognition of her work. The club has
just marked its third birthday," which was
celebrated by a cocktail-party arranged
by the president, Mrs. R. L. Hawke, and
her committee at Lawley House.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. — In Divorce.
TO LESLIE ALFRED WINDON late of
Second Avenue Willoughby Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that EVA MARY
ELIZABETH WINDON has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 940 of 1957 on the
ground of desertion by you without
just cause or excuse during three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 21st June 1957
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from GERALD EDWARD
QUINN, Solicitor, 52 Phillip Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGH AN, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copies of the following:
British Imperialism and Australia, by
Brian Fitzpatrick; History of the
Eight Hours' Movement (2 vols.),
by W. E. Murphy; William Lane
and the Australian Labor Move-
ment, by Lloyd Ross; Injustice
Within the Law, by H. V. Evatt;
Charting a Continent, by G. G.
Ingleton; Australian Discovery (2
vols.), by Ernest Scott. —6498.
To buy Sylvester Thomson’s
Calculus Made Easy and Dobbin
and Walker’s Chemical Theory for
Beginners. —6494.
To buy copy of the edition of
Coast to Coast (possibly 1954) con-
taining the story, “The Legend of
Sister Merry Christmas,” by Lyndall
Hadow.—649s.
Student wants to buy children’s
and adults’ books in Japanese. —
6496.
To buy copy of Denning’s Inside
Parliament. —6497.
Information Sought
Brief biography of Catherine of
Braganza, who married Charles It?
The following is the thumbnail
sketch of her life, as given by
Everyman’s. Encyclopedia:
“Catherine of Braganza (1638-1705),
daughter of King John IV of
Portugal, and wife of Charles II of
Great Britain. Catherine brought
Charles an enormous dowry,
together .with Bombay and the
fortress of Tangier in Africa, but
the marriage was exceedingly
unpopular in England. It was also
very unhappy, for Charles treated
his wife with contempt and
indifference, and heaped insult
upon her. He, however, took her
part twice against his infamous
Court. After a miserable life as
‘a stranger in a strange land,’ she
returned to Portugal in 1693.”
* * * *
Was New England {N.S.Wi} once
known as Beardy Plains ? How did
that name arise ?
In an article written for the Royal
Australian Historical Society in
1922, J. F. Campbell quoted to the
following effect William Gardner,
an American who settled at
Armidale around - the 1840’s and
who left maps of, and notes on, the
district which are now in the
Mitchell Library: “Two stockmen,
Duval and Chandler, who were
assigned servants to Captain
Dumaresq, were in charge of his
cattle at Tilbuster —his station five
miles from Armidale, and at that
time (1835) the furthest-out station
in New England. These two men
had every opportunity of being the
first to see any extensive country to
the north, hitherto unexplored by
white men. When stations came to
be in demand in New England by
gentlemen who wished to remove
their stock to that district, these
men were first called upon to point
out the most favorable situations for
stations, being generally well
rewarded. They wore long beards,
and gentlemen from Sydney or else-
where who wanted such suitable
situations for stations were recom-
mended to apply to the ‘beardies.’
Hence the name ‘Beardy’ as applied
to the so-called plains.” (“So-
called” because it is hilly country
corrugated by numerous streams.)
The name Beardy Plains, Campbell
then goes on to state, soon fell into
disuse.
* * * *
I would like to publish a song.
Is it essential that 1 copyright the
song before having it published ?
What would this cost ?
From the Australasian Performing
“Somebody souvenired the starter's gun”
Right Association, Ltd., 66 Pitt-
street, Sydney:
In all countries which are party
to the Berne convention on copy-
right (and these include members of
the British Commonwealth) no
formalities are necessary to the
enjoyment of copyright. It is there-
fore not necessary to register a
composition in this country. If,
however, a composer intends sub-
mitting his manuscript for publica-
tion in the United States, it is
recommended that he obtain a form
from the American Embassy for the
purpose of registering the composi-
tion with the Registrar of Copy-
rights, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.;
the U.S. is not bound by the
Berne convention.
As an added protection, some
composers take the precaution of
first registering their works with the
registrar at Canberra. Although
this is not essential, it does establish
prima facie evidence of ownership.
The charge for this optional
registration in Australia is, we
understand, 10s. per title, and the
cost of registration (which is advis-
able) in the U.S.A., at Washington,
is $4.
Australian composers may assign
their public-performing right to this
Association, and we will collect
royalties on their behalf for all
public performances of their works
—past, present, and future —in all
countries where we are affiliated
with the national performing-right
body. No dues or entry-fees are
payable far membership of this
Association; administration-costs
are deducted from our annual
income prior to the distribution of
royalties among members.
Of the four rights in copyright,
A.P.R.A. alone controls this right
of public performance, which means
that we collect royalties for per-
formances of our members’ composi-
tions at concerts and on broadcast
and televised programmes. As far
as recording right is concerned, we
understand that the mechanical
royalties (5 p.c. of the retail price
of the record) are divided equally
between the writers and publishers
of the musical number concerned.
Royalties on works which are inter-
polated into a dramatic production
are the subject of a domestic arrange-
ment between the publisher and the
composer. With regard to publish-
ing right, the average arrangement
so far as the payment of royalties is
concerned is for 10 p.c. of the
retail selling-price to be paid to the
composer on each copy sold.
(The above-quoted percentages
are flexible, and we would suggest
that further inquiries on aspects of
copyright other than performing
right—in which this Association is
solely concerned —should be directed
to one of the prominent publishing-
houses or recording-companies.)
* * * *
How to feed bees?
(This question was referred to
“B-herd,” who advises.)
The best way to feed a colony of
bees is to leave them their share
of the harvest. This varies. In a
place like Queensland, where the
winter is short, a full half-depth
over the brood-chamber suffices.
Where the winters are long, a full-
depth of sealed honey should be
left.
It’s no loss: the bees will use
only their needful portion. The
migratory man is in a different]
category; he usually takes a big
s\yipe at the surplus on each flow,
then moves on.
Artificial feeding serves two pur-
poses : it will • save the life of a
colony left with inadequate stares;
oi it will take the place of outside
stimulant when the beekeeper aims
to build the colony to gathering
strength prior to his main flow. If
for the latter purpose, the bee-
keeper needs to calculate pollen-
availability and time necessary for
at least two. cycles of brood-hatch-
ing. Midwinter-feeding, for instance,
could result in adult-bee loss due to
outside foraging brought on by
artificial feeding, even inside the
colony. For hive-survival, the bee-
keeper should assess the stores in
the colony in the autumn, then, if
necessary, feed.
The „ method of actual feeding
differs in the two operations. For
brood-stimulant, a sugar-syrup made
with one part of sugar to two of
boiling water can be prepared and
fed slowly. (The bees tend to store
if it is fed fast.) Rate of feed is
governed by the tiny holes punc-
tured in the lid of the inverted tin
used for feeding. A 71b'. syrup-tin
(containing about a dozen holes) or
a powdered-milk tin is handy size,
and obviates constant disturbance
of the colony if a smaller receptacle
—a 21b. jar, for example—is used.
Place the tin lid-down over- the
cluster of bees; raised slightly to
allow bfee-access to the holes. The
syrup won’t run out if a frame-
nail is used for puncturing. The
bees suck the syrup; you can watch
them, half a dozen or so round each
hole and with their tongues out,
feeding. It shouldn’t be necessary
tc add that the feed-tin is placed
in an empty hive-body set on the
colony and the lid replaced.
Robbing must be avoided. Bees
will take to the wing in clouds,
prying into every crack and crevice
-—even into near-by homes—if
honey or syrup is left uncovered
round the apiary.
Feeding is an individual-hive job.
Beekeepers in the U.S.A. feed a tray
of dry sugar; it’s easier, but the
syrup comes nearer to the normal.
Someone there has remarked that it’s
a good way to get rid of sugar.
Feeding sugar for profit here hasn’t
been tried that I know of —it may
not be profitable even if the sugar
v.ere free; but feeding bees for the
above-mentioned reasons must pay
dividends.
Brief Answers
L.H.H.: (From the Timber
Development Association of Aus-
tralia.) Many measurements are
used for timber measurement,
several of which are: the Hoppus
system (used in most countries); the
Brereton system (used in Australia,
North America and the Pacific);
the Petrograd standard (Scandin-
avian countries and the U.K.); the
cubic-foot (some British countries);
tonnage - measurement (Malaya,
Sarawak and other Pacific
countries); the load (the U.K. and
western States of Australia); the
metric system (some Continental
countries). Information on ail
foreign measures won’t be found in
any one book, but the'following will
be helpful on the subject:
Matheson’s Australian Sawmillers’
Complete Log and Timber Ready
Reckoner; Laver’s Principles of Log


ms.
m
pf r
, 'I
V L t
i&r U
P l !
//I
v
a (m m
m
Js*
IV/
wWSj
\
BOWLERS’ BLAZERS
And they’re made by Stamina!
That tells the whole story of their excellence.
Here’s a blazer you’ll be proud to own and wear.
It’s made in Regulation Blue Crusader serge,
fully art silk lined and it will wear, and wear,
and keep on wearing for years.
Available in a full range of sizes, it’s complete
with your own club’s monogrammed pocket.
BOWLERS
BLAZERS by
1
TAILORED
FROM CRUSADER
CLOTH
88A.113
Measurement; Australian Timber
Handbook, by N. K. Wallis....
Inquirer: Mrs. Mirabel Topham is,
of course, the boss-lady at Ain tree
at the present time. The TJ.K.
information Office has been unable,
through its London office, to trace
any connection between Lord Set ton,
Lord Derby and the course. It
suggests that you contact Messrs.
Wcatherby and Sons, 15 Cavendish
Square, London, W.l, who act
at. secretaries for the National Hunt
Committee and the Jockey Club....
K.W.: A diet which excludes all
starchy foods and those contain-
ing sugar is best. Gluten-bread,
bran-cakes and almond-biscuits
should take the place of ordinary
bread and the diet should include
green vegetables, fat of meat and
cream; but there should be no
sudden change in diet. Since
diabetic coma is always a danger,
carbohydrates should be resumed if
there are any signs of drowsiness,
insulin is injected when the dieting
F insufficient to keep the blood-
sugar normal and to prevent its
presence in the urine. Beyond that,
you should sec a doctor.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted;' and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered jor publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered us the Editor
thinks necessary.
P.M.: Your “Warble” wobbles.
....8.M.: Both dose. It's always
perilous to. introduce alien images,
like the witches and the priests of
the Nile, into an Australian setting.
. ...S.F.M.: “The Laugh” didn't
raise one... .L.A.: We locked the
door and threw away “The Key.”
. ...M.8.5.: “Hoof Beals” echoing
down the corridor on its way out.
. ...0.Y.: “They say my verse has
an indefinable something.” “lndelin-
able” is so apt... .E.W.R.:
“Whither went my Poppy?” P'raps
your Poppy’s withered F.T.Y.:
You should have called “The Whal-
ing Ship” “The Wailing Ship”....
W.S.M.: Your “Meat” was our
poison... .A.McA.: Keep trying.
. ...L.T.H.: Too too melancholy.
. ...8.G.D.: We won’t have beauti-
ful young women disillusioned so in
our pages T.P.: “The Librarian”
shelved... .A. V.: Legible as a
handwritten music-score....
S. You'll have to bolster-up
Jim's grammar.... M.S.: Those
“dusky crenellated*battlements bask-
ing in the evening light” are now bask-
ing jn the basket....F.F.: Reads
.like a pop-tune... .G.T.: Story on
angling cast 0ut....A.W.: Out, but
definitely... .L.S.G.: Story about
the Show not a prize exhibit....
M.S.: “Elizabethan Elegy” would,
perhaps, have interested the
Elizabethans.... W.A.: Lurches
along like a drunken sailor....
T. : Lacking in humor....
S. “The Faery" drifted gently
to rest.... D.H.: “I hardly know
where to begin.” You’d probably
do best to end before you start....
T. : That would have been all
light if you'd let the characters
speak for themselves... J.J.:
"Triumph” trite....L.F.L.: Reads
like something written in school.
FLB.: “Ode to a Pastepot”
came to sticky end.... A. A.:
Doubtful... .F. M.: Send it to a
parish-paper.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
AFTER BERMUDA
npHE Bermuda conference
between President Eisen-
hower and Prime Minister
Macmillan, as seen, optimistic-
ally or with some misgivings,
by the British and U.S. press:
London “Financial Times” :
“The outcome of the Bermuda
conference does at first sight
seem to be very encouraging.
The American attitude appears
to have been helpful and co-
operative on all the major
matters with which Britain was
concerned. Indeed, one’s only
regret may be the harm that
would have been averted if
President Eisenhower had
been willing to accept the same
conclusions ttvelve months ago.
“The crucial question, now
as then, is the Middle East. In
the discussions at Bermuda the
Americans reaffirmed the
Security Council decision of
last October as the basis for the
future of the Suez Canal. That
provides a practical, formula
for the joint Anglo-American
policy.
“At the same time President
Eisenhower by agreeing to par-
ticipate actively in the work of
the Military Committee of the
Baghdad Pact will have
strengthened the position of
the pro-Western Governments
of the Middle East.
“The Bermuda attitude to-
ward Colonel Nasser seems to
have been refreshingly realistic.
Both countries agreed to a
policy of supporting proper
safeguards in the Gulf of
Akaba and the Gaza Strip in
so far as they can be obtained ;
they also seem to have agreed
to the building of a new pipe-
line for Middle Eastern oil
which would reduce Europe’s
reliance on the canal.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian”:
“The declaration on con-
tinued testing of nuclear
weapons will cause dismay to
people already uneasy about
the hazards to public health.
It is impossible to share the
declaration’s confidence that
there will be no harmful con-
sequences while testing con-
tinues ‘with due restraint,’ if
only because there are so
many unknown elements.
“The one consolation is in
the offer to permit limited inter-
national observation of the
tests, although that is condi-
tional on the Soviet Union
doing the same.
“On. the Far East it is evi-
dent that the two Governments
are not altogether in harmony
with each other, and on the
Middle East there are obscuri-
ties. It is good that a joint
stand is taken on compliance
with the Security Council’s six
points of mid-October, which
set out the essential require-
ments for operation of the
Suez Canal, but it is not clear
whether a common front will
be held on payment of tolls if
Colonel Nasser insists on his
own terms.
“And it is questionable
whether the association of the
United States with the military
committee of the Baghdad
Pact will be of any benefit. It
will cement the misplaced
friendship of .India and Egypt,
and it implies once again, as
with so much of the Eisen-
hower ‘doctrine,’ a mistaken
concern with direct Soviet
aggression when the immediate
danger is subversion or indirect
attack. It suggests a lack
of acuteness in the analysis at
Bermuda of Middle Eastern
nedds.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph ” :
“What has been attained at
Bermuda will be judged by the
‘follow-through’ in Washington
and in London. The two chief
tests will be the negotiations
to give effect to the American
promise to make guided-mis-
siles available to us [Britain]
and the shaping of joint policies
in the Middle East.
“The most significant indi-
cation of conversion to realism
in American Middle East policy
is the decision to join the mili-
tary committee of the Baghdad
Pact. From this the United
States has hitherto held back
for fear of displeasing Nasser
and King Saud. The latter has
already given general approval
to the Eisenhower Doctrine, of
which the new Baghdad align-
ment is an expression, so that
this is a challenge directed
straight at Nasser. If he joins
the united front against ex-
ternal Communism, he will
qualify for American support.”
* * *
London “Spectator” : “These
meetings ‘at the summit’ are
necessarily deceptive. The
danger of them is that, in the
forced atmosphere of public
joviality, disagreements get
plastered over with a veneer of
public-relations patter and
agreements are differently in-
terpreted by each side. More-
over, artificial cordiality soon
cools. Meetings between heads
of States are really no substi-
tute for day-to-day co-opera-
tion between officials on a
lower level. If that side of
Anglo-American relations can
be restored to its old state the
effect of Bermuda will be a
permanent improvement in
understanding. Otherwise its
positive results are all very well
as far as they go, but judging
by past experience, the momen-
tary glow of Atlantic warmth
will be in some danger of going
out for lack of fuel.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post”: “The
United States decision to join
the military committee of the
Baghdad Pact also is another
blow at mischief-makers in the
Middle East. We may judge
the value of this decision quite
accurately by the sharpness of
Moscow Radio’s attacks on it.
The Russians do not like it and
there are very good reasons
why they should not; it will
impose a powerful brake on
Moscow’s intrigues in a highly
inflammable region.”
* * *
London “Economist ” : “It
would probably be a mistake
"London “Daily Express”
“BY ALLAH! SOMEBODY'S OPENED ONE OF HIS EYES!”
to assume that this further
American step in the direction
of full membership of the
Baghdad Pact diminishes the
existing danger of war. The
danger is in the Arab South of
the Middle East, among the
neighbors of Israel, who refused
to join the Baghdad Pact and
who have reacted bitterly
against it since its inception,
treating the one Arab member
of the pact, Irak, as an enemy
and a traitor.
“Led by President Nasser,
the majority of the Arab
League States have acquired by
now the fixed habit of com-
bining a vendetta against
Israel with an attitude of
defiant hostility to the West.
An alliance directed against
Russia and associated with the
Western interest can clearly not
attract them or influence them,
unless adversely. How. then,
are they to be influenced?
Not, it is to be hoped, by the
blind eye that would allow the
state of war against Israel to
continue, as the convenience of
Arab politics requires ; for that
would put a heavier weight on
U.N.O.’s protecting shield
than it can possibly carry.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail” :
“ ‘There is now little difference
between the U.S. and the
British evaluation of Nasser,’
says Mr. Dulles. Welcome
words! The Americans have
learned much about the reali-
ties of a complex situation.
“They want a fair deal for
all canal-users. If Nasser
makes trouble a programme of
new pipelines and big tankers
will be rushed through. These
will surely be needed whatever
the situation at Suez.”
* * *
“London Daily Express ” *
“The Americans agree to send
intermediate - range ballistic
missiles to Britain. These
weapons, a glimpse of the
ultimate in rockets, will be
operated by joint Anglo-
American teams. But the
atomic warheads which give
the missiles their unique deter-
rent power will be stocked
here under American guard,
“The missiles in fact can
only be used on American say-
so.
“Regrets at the overriding
American control of the mis-
siles should also be tempered
by understanding of the limits


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME .... .....
ADDRESS
*
!• • • • • ••••.' • • • • e •' •' •
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
**The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £B/18/6 Foreign .... £3/«/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
London “New Statesman”
“I’LL STOP MY TESTS IF YOU STOP YOURS, I’LL STOP MY TESTS IF YOU
STOP YOURS, I’LL STOP MY TESTS IF ..."
imposed on the President by
Congress. Eisenhower cannot
hand out control of American
warheads without altering the
atomic-security system of his
country.
“But so long as Britain does*
not produce missiles of her
own a situation must be en-
visaged in which the country's
existence could, in effect, de-
pend on an American decision.
“That situation could never
be tolerable.”
* * >]:
New York “Herald Tribune”
editorial comment: “In the
crucial field of international
relations in the nuclear age,
President Eisenhower and
Prime Minister Macmillan ex-
tended both an invitation and
a challenge to the Soviet Union.
In effect, the joint communique
expressed a willingness to
permit limited international
observation of nuclear
tests, provided that the Soviet
Union did the same. Moscow’s
refusal to accept genuine inter-
national observation of such
tests has been the stumbling-
block to effective co-operation ;
once more the Soviets have the
opportunity to display the sin-
cerity of their demands for
arms-controls.”
* * si:
Walter Lippmann in New
York “Herald Tribune” : “We
may say, I think, that at
Bermuda the British conceded
that Western policy in the
Middle East should, for the
present, follow the line laid
down by the President and
Secretary Dulles. This accep-
tance of American leadership
was not, however, unreserved.
Whatever may be said of
Britain’s loss of influence in
the Arab world, it is a British
vital interest to have access to
the oil of the Persian Gulf
area. Although there were no
warnings or threats of any
kind, there was a distinct im-
plication at Bermuda that
Britain would follow American
leadership in dealing with the
Arab States as long as its vital
interests are not sacrificed —
but no longer than that.”
* * *
Don Cook in New York
“Herald Tribune” ; “The main
difficulties which this con-
ference did not resolve now
centre on the sort of tactical
questions which arise out of the
mission of United Nations
Secretar y-General Dag
Hammarskjoeld to Cairo. The
British and Americans are in
agreement that Egypt’s Presi-
dent Nasser is a bad man who
ought to be put in a box. In
other words, they agree
strategically. But on how to
put him in that box the
tactics, that is—they are not
in agreement.”
* * *
E dinb u r§ h “Scotsman”:
“The Bermuda communique
speaks of the right of the
German people to early reuni-
fication. It is also clear enough
that Britain and the United
States are agreed on the rights
and wrongs of the Hungarian
situation. They can do nothing
about the latter without resort
to force and they do not
propose to use force. Can they
do anything useful about the
former? It must be hoped that
they are at least agreed on the
policy they intend to follow.”
* * *
“New York Times”: “In
general, and in line with
the Eisenhower-Mollet com-
munique [of February], the
Bermuda decisions place
greatest emphasis on the neces-
sity, of defending and strength-
ening the free world against
the aggressive designs of Soviet
Russia and its puppets and
partners everywhere, including
the Middle East. To that end
the United States and Britain
again join France in stressing
the value of collective-security
pacts and the special import-
ance of the North Atlantic
alliance as the cornerstone of
Western defence.
“These alliances, it is again
made plain, are not aggressive.
They operate within the frame-
work of the United Nations as
instruments of permitted self-
defence and, if need be, as
potential enforcement agencies
of the United Nations.”
The Australian
Economy—U.K. View
Offering an “apology to Aus-
tralia, a country which has
always given me a statistical
headache,” Nicholas Daven-
port writes in London “Spec-
tator” that he had previously
stated that “no country put so
high a proportion of its gross
national product to investment
as Canada. (The Canadian
figure for last year was 26j per
cent.)”
“Now,” Davenport com-
ments, “I have it on the
authority of Sir Douglas
Copland, the distinguished
Australian economist, that in
the financial year 1955-56 the
proportion of investment to
gross national product in Aus-
tralia was 28 per cent. And
29.7 per cent, in the previous
year! Apparently the average
since 1951 has been over 25
per cent. This is a very
remarkable achievement having
regard to their [Australia’s]
chronic capital shortage and
the periodic deficits they run
into with their balance of pay-
ments.
“In fact, the recovery which
the Australian economy is now
enjoying is attracting no little
attention in the City [London’s
financial centre], where the
investor is presently in an
‘emigrating’ vein, and I feel
that a few cautionary comments
are called for.
After noting that, “as a
primary producer Australia is
still mainly dependent upon the
world demand for wool,” and
pointing out the extent to which
wool-production depends on
the seasons, Davenport adds
that “the secondary industries
are making rapid headway and
this certainly makes for greater
confidence in the future of
Australia” :
“According to the index of
factory-production compiled by
the Australia and New Zealand
Bank (there are no Government
figures), output has risen by 32
per cent, in the three years to
1955-56. In steel, output has


doubled and a further increase
of 50 per cent, is planned. The
Broken Hill Proprietary Com-
pany, which holds the steel
monopoly, produces the
cheapest steel in the world.
There is no reason why Aus-
tralia should not capture, in
due course, some of the U.K.
export-trade in manufactures to
the underdeveloped countries
of South-east Asia.
“In minerals Australia is rich
and the potential output is
incalculable. The lead-silver-
zinc mines at Broken Hill and
the goldmines at Kalgoorlie
are in full-scale production,
but the mountain of copper at
Mount Isa, the bauxite deposits
in Cape York Peninsula (said
to be the largest in the world),
the uranium at Rum Jungle in
the Northern Territory and at
Mary Kathleen in Queensland
—these are all awaiting
development.
“Consolidated Zinc and
British Aluminium have excit-
ing plans to exploit the bauxite.
If only oil could be discovered
in commercial quantities! So
far the drilling has been dis-
appointing— except perhaps in
New Guinea and in this
respect the mineral wealth of
Australia falls sadly behind that
of Canada.
“But no one can doubt the
increasing pace of the expan-
sion of the Australian economy.
Population, now nearly 10
million, has been rising at the
rate of 2\ per cent, per annum.
About 1 per cent, is due to
immigration. Public investment
to cope with this growth
in fuel and power, irriga-
tion, transport, communica-
tions, schools, hospitals, etc. —
is now accounting for about
one-third of the total invest-
ment and to finance it —at least
up to 70 per cent. —the Federal
Government is budgeting for
an annual surplus.
“But Australia needs capital
from overseas in ever greater
quantities. She is paying from
6 per cent, to over 7 per cent,
to attract it, and nearly £A6O
million flowed in during the last
half of 1956. On the recent
showing it looks as if American
capital is going to fill the gap
to a greater extent than British.
“With the terqps of trade
moving against her it is not
surprising that Australia
resorted to import-controls to
correct her balance of pay-
ments. The Menzies coalition
is not too conservative in
matters of financial control. She
is now getting back to a surplus
and has already relaxed her
import - restrictions from
January I—to1 —to the delight of
our own [British] exporters. I
see that Sir Douglas Copland,
in the ‘Financial Times,’
estimates that Australian over-
seas reserves (held in London)
will probably have risen to
£ASOO million by June 30
against £A3SO million at June
30, 1956.
“If so,” Davenport con-
cludes, “it will be a remarkable
recovery—to which I doff my
statistical cap, even if I do
not bow, for the moment, my
investment knee.”
Britain's Strikes
Commenting on the U.K.’s
industrial troubles, London
“Time a*d Tide” observes that
possibly the “most alarming
thing about the wave of strikes
is everyone’s eagerness to settle
them —the theory loftily pro-
pagated by newspapers and
Government alike that a dis-
pute is better settled unjustly
London “Daily Mail ”
MORE!
than not settled at all. If
we suppose this to be a victory
for commonsense, we are
deceiving ourselves”:
“The pattern of a five per
cent. wage - increase [the
increase granted to railway-
men] all round is now the very
least that can be hoped for.
Indeed the shipbuilders and
engineers consider five per cent,
a rise which can be taken for
granted, leaving them free to
see how much more they can
extort in the course of negoti-
ations. This means another
dose of inflation ; there can be
no two "ways about that.
“Industrial optimists talk
happily about higher produc-
tion and fewer restrictive prac-
tices. Such promises have been
given before with little or no
result: the wage-increases
remain, the restrictive practices
never diminish. But, even if
restrictive practices could be
done away with altogether,
would the saving compensate
for a five per cent, wage-
increase? In a good year it
might, but it certainly could
not go on doing so: yet the
employers are being asked to
to face a regular annual
increase in their wage-bill of
at least five per cent. And the
unions are not prepared to
accept even that. The ship-
builders will not guarantee a
wage-standstill for a single
year unless they get more than
five per cent. now.
“In such circumstances the
loss to the country and the
inconvenience to ordinary
people caused even by a pro-
longed strike could hardly be
as great as the effect of a
compromise settlement. It is
simply not worth buying off
the strikers. If there still existed
any doubts about this, Mr.
Frank Cousins, General Sec-
retary of the Transport and
General Workers’ Union,
should have dispelled them.
There was a particular virtue in
winning this strike, he said,
because ‘if we don’t win this
one, we shall not win the
next.’ '
“ ‘Splitting the difference’
whenevef the unions ask for
more money is tantamount to
complete surrender to an
accelerating inflation. It looks
as though this surrender has
been made again. Within a
few weeks, there will be a
general rise in the proportion of
wage-costs to industrial income,
another increase in the cost of
living, a further limitation on
necessary reinvestment in
industry and greater difficulty
for Britain in retaining her
share of the world’s markets.
“This is the cost of a wage-
settlement which might last a
year. There is no evidence that
it will produce the slightest
increase in production and
absolutely no reason to suppose
the whole process will not
begin again in twelve months’
time.”
Trade with the
Communists
The optimism which sprang
from the trade-talks when
Bulganin and Khrushchev
visited Britain last year does
not appear to have been
justified by results, which, a
London “Financial Times”
writer comments, “have been
disappointing.”
The writer points out that
“when the Soviet leaders came
to the U.K. they produced
a ‘shopping-list’ which was
worth £BOO-£lOOO million
covering a five-year period.
This list covered a variety of
goods, from ships, high-
frequency electric furnaces and
machine-tools, to copper, gal-
vanised plates, tin-plate, wool
and cocoa-beans.
“Since 1949 there has been
an embargo on the export of
‘strategic materials’ to the
Communist bloc, but it was
estimated that between half
and three-quarters of the
shopping-list was not affected
by strategic control.
“In July, 1956, a technical
delegation headed by Maly-
shev spent three weeks in the
U.K. meeting representatives
of British industry. Optimistic
reports about future contracts
were given by a number of
companies, but no large Soviet
orders have as yet been
announced though Mather
and Platt, the Manchester
engineers, have gained a
£250,000 contract.
“Probably,” the writer adds,
“the political repercussions of
the Hungarian revolution can
be blamed partly for this, but
there are other reasons. In the
first place, there is a possibility
that the list was in part, at
least, propaganda aimed at the
British embargoes. This view
was strengthened recently when
Pervukhin, head of the Soviet
current economic planning
administration, stated that
‘trade with West Europe was
increasing, but that obstacles
raised by the individual
capitalist countries were
hampering development.’
“Against this view, there is
the fact that the Russian
market presents special diffi-
culties to U.K. exporters. Little
direct representation can be
established and as a result
consumer-contacts are generally
impossible. In addition,
trading with Russia can be
precarious as a result of the
rapid changes in Soviet
economic and political —-
planning.”
Noting that “a high demand
at home and in established
foreign markets has given
British industry little cause to


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO SIMEON CHARLES COCK late of
Nyngan.—TAKE NOTICE that ANNIE
FLORENCE COCK has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 855 of 1957 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
24th June 1957 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from J.
BIRNIE JACKSON & COATES, Soli-
citors, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
m
w*
xv
its
■i
£
m.
m
S&S&
- .is-v ..-s;
2V-'-;SV.-Vr-
ir-astt"-.::-!!
ar
o*<
i
€«
*£*s
°/ tKc »r
CELIAR
Mtirmi
Origin.*! Recip*
1742
,>
flwst
"ferfßea—•
■^sgWp.SLK
tDn»«w -J
»»! *•• ITatumo m tun***
R 35
WHITE HORSE
co u rse!
No other drink satisfies more
than a fine Scotch . . . and in
White Horse, Scotch
Whisky reaches pure
perfection.
seek trade with Russia,” the
“Financial Times” commenta-
tor goes on to say that, “as a
result it seems that Anglo-
Soviet trade will follow the
pattern of the two previous
years.”
He concludes that “trade
with the Soviet Union
accounted for no more than a
few per cent, of U.K. total
exports and imports in 1956.
Although it is possible for an
increase to take place—for
example in the supply of goods
to assist the Soviet housing-
drive —it seems unlikely that
it could be great.
“The Soviet Government
would never allow the Soviet
Union to become dependent on
imports from the West, and as
a result trade between the two
countries seems certain to
remain relatively small.”
On another aspect of trade
with Communist countries —
with Red China—London
“Economist” notes that “the
gulf between Britain’s com-
mercial-minded wish to bring
the embargo on China into line
with that on Russia and the
Americans’ stem political nega-
tive still seems wide”:
“America’s concern to avoid
a gesture that might enhance
China’s prestige is supported
by a powerful economic
argument. The Soviet bloc is
in critical economic difficulties.
There are not enough inves-
ment goods to carry out its
plans. It hardly seems the
moment for the West to help
it out, aiding China in its
economic race with India.
“Britain, however, can also
muster strong arguments. The
economic one can simply be
turned upside-down. Britain
has always sought to lever
China and Russia apart, and
the bloc’s economic diffi-
culties might be used
to serve that end. In
January the Chinese
leaders bought continuing
Russian aid with a political
obeisance, but they have no
more liking than the Poles for
this dependence. An easing of
the embargo, the China hand
can argue, would strengthen
China’s bargaining position in
Moscow.
“The embargo is in any case
leaking more and more,” the
“Economist” adds. “Em-
bargoed goods are not
only shipped to China
via Eastern Europe; the
exceptions procedure, which
was designed to let through a
trickle of samples and small
orders, has become the channel
for a stream of goods. It is
difficult to substantiate the view
of many British businessmen
that the Japanese, French and
German authorities apply the
procedure more generously
than the Board of Trade. But
French exports to China more
than trebled last year, with
embargoed steel and tractors
playing an important part, and
the Japanese, who have held a
trade-fair in China and sent
many technical missions there,
doubled their exports.
“Even American manufac-
turers, like Mr. Henry Ford,
have begun to criticise the em-
bargo, tempted by the pros-
pects. China, unlike many
Communist countries, can
afford to pay. Its trade with
Western Europe was in deficit
last year, but its export-drive
in South-east Asia is piling
up sterling reserves. In the first
eight months of last year it
had a trade-surplus with the
free world of over £5O million,
If it cannot spend this direct in
Western Europe, it can use it
to buy embargoed goods
through Eastern Europe and
South-east Asia. The embargo
may or may not be prudent,
but it is clearly anomalous.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Drinking Dangerously
“Doynest” (B. 3/4/’57) may
be correct when he states that
“liquor-interests get a pretty
good press in this country,” but
neither Dr. Dax nor Mr. Justice
Sholl was critical of drinking
itself. Rather, their minds were
directed to the case where a
person drinks so excessively
that he neglects his natural
domestic obligations and
becomes a potential danger to
the rest of the community.
Theoretically, the only differ-
ence between the heavy drinker
and the man who likes an
occasional glass is a difference
of degree. Practically, the irre-
sponsible drunkard is in a class
apart. Yet the community and
the courts have shown a
marked reluctance to dis-
tinguish this group. If a
drunken man beats his wife or
drives his car so recklessly that
he kills or maims some
innocent pedestrian he will
tender the excuse that he was
too drunk to understand what
he was doing.
This explanation deserves no
sympathy. Although it may
explain the beating and the
dangerous driving it does not
excuse the equally culpable
reckless disregard for his
obligations to his family and
the community. Fortunately
the consistent drunkard is com-
paratively rare in our com-
munity. There would be less
criticism of innocent drinking
if the enormity of his offence
was more justly and less merci-
fully punished.—Mac D. (Vic.).
British Migrants
Listen to any recorded inter-
view with British migrants and
you will hear nine out of ten
frankly admit to coming here
because of greater opportuni-
ties and a higher living-standard.
And yet it seems to be not the
British migrant who is seeking-
out and making use of those
opportunities. New small
factories and other business
enterprises appear to be almost
exclusively the province of the
New Aussie, while the Britisher
—who has the least social re-
adjustment to make —appears
to expect us, as “Sparks” says
(B. 3/4/’57), to regard him with
suitable deference.
Fundamentally, of course,
we differ in that the average
Australian knows a great deal
about U.K. people and their
historic island, but the reverse
is not true. The British citizen
knows practically nothing
about us except what has been
gleaned from the carping
criticism so loudly-voiced by
visitors returning to England
from this country.
I lately interviewed a newly-
arrived English-woman in her
late forties about a job. She
asked without any trace of
embarrassment whether Aus-
tralia had participated in
World War I. She followed this
by saying that she understood
Australians objected to work-
ing with “Pommies.”
Another English-woman of
my acquaintance uses every
opportunity of expressing her
intense dislike of everything
about the kookaburra
especially the “coarseness” of
his laughter!
Until British migrants can
take the trouble to adjust their
preconceived prejudices, to do
some private reading, and to
realise once and for all that we
are not “Colonials,” they will
always get the Aussie back up.
—Kemberry (A.C.T.).
Foreign Doctors
The Australian medical
fraternity seems very agitated
over the question of easing
restrictions on the admission
to practice of foreign doctors,
particularly in Victoria and
N. S. Wales.
The B.M.A. places an
extremely , high value on the
qualifications of all its mem-
bers in Australia, and un-
doubtedly the profession has
moved a long way forward
since the barber-leech days. On
the other hand, it is open to
question whether the ordinary
run-of-the-mill general prac-
titioner is as good an all-
rounder as his counterpart of
50 years ago. Those men,
because of the absence of fast
transport, had to undertake all
sorts of work, both surgical
and medical, and were all the
better for it.
These days the tendency is
for the g.p. to make what he
can of a case and then pass it
along to a specialist—and there
seems to be a certain amount
of teamwork here.
In the smaller towns there
are an increasing number of
“His Work is like a hobby to him."
young men who are quite satis-
fied to do that, with the result
that they get almost no
surgical experience. A few
Government appointments and
the flocks of pensioners under
the social-service scheme keep
them quite comfortable
financially, but so far as their
skill is concerned they are
rusting away.
The result is that after a
few years of such practice they
have lost any desire they may
have had to qualify as first-
class medical men. A certain
amount of laziness creeps in
with a desire to avoid weekend
work, and there are other
undesirable features. As with
drivers of cars, once they get
their licence to practice (with
the barest minimum university
degree) there is no subsequent
compulsory test of their skill
or acquaintance with the
latest developments in
medicine.
Small towns within 25 miles
or so of the larger centres have
their doctors (and how they
love that word despite only
an M.B. degree) who, as a
matter of routine, spem to pass
their patients on to the hos-
pitals and doctors at the bigger
centre. They then have no
further interest in the case and
don’t seem to mind.
The result of all this will be
a general lowering of standards
in a large proportion of the
profession. I am not referring
to the really good men, who,
by and large, are equal to any
in the world, but it is absurd
to maintain that the whole
range of doctors in Australia
is of first-class professional
standing. Many of them are
by no means equal to the
foreign doctors whom their
association is so keen on limit-
ing to men in the top rank.
In medicine, as with most
other things, some outside
competition could do a lot of
good. It’s too much of a close


Fuit/i in the
Future
Christendom comes again to the great festival
of Easter. The message of Christ’s triumph is
carried in eternal echo across the world.
The history of close on 2000 years is toned to
its proclamation. When nations now flourishing
were still unformed, the Resurrection was being
cherished as a tremendous truth. It is still the
centre of our Creed, the source of our spiritual
faith. To the end of time, Easter will be a cause
of Christian joy and celebration.
It will go on in endless season, the force of its
reality expelling human doubts and giving a mean-
ing to Man’s earthly existence.
Life is not lived in an atmosphere of shining
splendour. Sorrows and anxieties come in to test
us. Turbulence rises among the nations. It was
ever so.
The disciples who saw and heard and talked
with Christ had their problems, just as we have
ours today. The Master Himself, in His Passion,
had to endure the cruellest trials of all. Roman
Caesars were astride the world of His time, and
He was born and lived and taught and died in a
subject land.
That has its lesson for our own age, when so
much depends on the continuing Faith of men ;
on their acceptance of reverses not as defeat but as
a challenge to the spirit within them.
Without the Resurrection the story of Christ’s
life might have been written as that of a gentle
Prophet. He might have gone into history as an
obscure Martyr to the claim that He was God ;
for that was the very charge on which His accusers
brought Him to judgment and crucifixion.
By His rising again he gave stupendous proof
of all He had claimed and foretold. And the
whole power of the religion He founded —the
inspiration for its works, the fount of its
philosophy —is in the events of that first Easter;
in the fact that he showed Himself God.
7
preserve at present, as evi-
denced by the prices asked for
quite, ordinary practices.—
Henri le Cheval (Vic.).
London Exchange-rate
The announced relaxation of
import - restrictions, coupled
with the Prime Minister’s
declaration that the Govern-
ment’-a ultimate aim is to get
rid of restrictions altogether,
is expected to cut the cost of
living—largely because of the
extra competition which is
expected.
So far so good, but isn’t it
about time that we heard some-
thing more about our old
friend the London exchange-
rate! It will soon be 26 years
since the Commonwealth Bank
announced that it was pre-
pared to buy exchange on Lon-
don at the rate of £125 Aus-
tralian for £lOO sterling and
to sell at the rate of £125 10s.
Australian for £lOO sterling. A
little earlier, in 1931, the rate,
without official control, had
reached £l3O.
Whatever the state of our
London balances in the inter-
vening years since 1931 that
fictitious rate of 25 per cent,
has remained unaltered. That
it is fictitious is proved by the
fact that in 1950 the London
funds had reached astronomic
proportions and recently got
down to dangerously low levels,
yet no change was made in the
rate.
It’s very nice for farmers
and local manufacturers faced
with competition from over-
seas, but very expensive for
Australia as a whole, including
the Government faced with the
necessity of paying interest on
overseas loans.
When the rate was fixed
farmers were sadly in need of
some artificial bolster, and no
doubt the Country party has
had quite a lot to do with
seeing that the rate, once
imposed, was not lifted. The
time of deepest depression,
however, was about the middle
of 1932, but export-prices
began to rise in May, 1933,
and of recent years nobody can
claim that the primary-pro-
ducers have been in real need
of the artificial rate still quoted.
Nevertheless there it sticks.
Surely the proper thing to do is
to make gradual reductions
until such time as parity with
sterling is reached. In the old
days, before there was all this
tinkering with natural laws of
supply and demand, the Aus-
tralian pound was more-or-less
on a par with the English.
When a tendency arose, either
one way or the other, for the
need for correction, then gold
was shipped. In other words,
when the rate got to a figure
where it was cheaper to ship
gold, that was done. It was
known as the “gold-point.”
And a very good thing it was
too, but, like so many others,
it has disappeared down the
drain.
An adjustment of the Lon-
don rate should be a no more
ticklish job than sudden and
large easing of import-controls,
but it is, I suppose, too much
to expect that it will ever be
tackled while the C.P. holds the
balance of power. Until
economic necessity forces a
showdown we’ll see the mail-
boats leaving for abroad
packed with farmers and their
sisters and their cousins and
their aunts all making the
grand tour.
There will also be room in
the first saloon for those lucky
manufacturers who have the
“protection” of a high tariff,
an artificial London rate and
import-controls.— Ceg (Vic.).
Victorian Liquor Poll
Admittedly Victoria is facing
“problems posed by the six-
o’clock swi 11 -hou r ’ ’ (B.
3/4/’57), but there are many
Victorians, like myself, who
will quarrel with the accom-
panying observation that these
are problems “which a misled
electorate had refused to
rectify.”
The facts of the last Vic-
torian liquor poll are that the
electorate was given the oppor-
tunity to register its opinions
as to whether or not the exist-
ing liquor-selling hours should
be retained unaltered or
extended until 10 p.m. By a
very substantial majority, the
electorate plumped for reten-
tion of the existing system.
All sections of the com-
munity were at liberty to
express their views on the
subject beforehand—the press,
the radio, public meetings and
ditect canvassing for votes were
all extensively employed by
those parties interested in the
outcome of the poll, and
certainly nobody could claim
that voters had been kept in
ignorance of the issues at
stake.
I do not recall any previous
referendum where the issues
were more frankly and openly
discussed by the general public,
or where the opposing factions
were so ready to submit their
arguments to the test of public
debate.
How, then, can it be said
(Continued on next page)


that the electorate was “mis-
led”? If the alternatives with
which the electorate was con-
fronted were not exclusive—if,
in fact, there were other and
better solutions to the liquor-
problem that were not sub-
mitted to the electorate —that,
surely, was not the electorate's
fault, but that of those respon-
sible for framing the
referendum questions.
The electorate, in brief, had
only two courses open to it.
Its decision was not a refusal
to rectify an admittedly un-
satisfactory system, -but a
refusal to put in its place a
system which—in the majority’s
opinion—would be still more
unsatisfactory. Doynest
(Vic.).
The FIO4 Starfighter
1 see that the Lockheed FIO4
Starfighter is to be made in
Australia. Some facts about
this plane have been released
and printed in American pub-
lications ; essentials are,* of
course, top-secret.
The FIQ4 Starfighter, de-
signed by the Lockheed Air-
craft Corporation, was first
test-flown in February, 1954.
It is small as jet-fighters go —
pencil-slim with a long garfish
nose and beak. It is 54ft. long,
has a 22ft.-wingspan and is
13ft. to the top of the tail. The
wings are short and thin with
knife-sharp leading-edges which
have to be covered with felt
protectors on the ground for
safety of groundcrew. Lock-
heed designers say it is the
strongest airframe they have
ever built and, being small,
costs but half the price of con-
ventional lighters.
For the Starfighter, the
General Electric Company de-
signed a new jet-engine, the
J 79, which in terms of thrust
per pound of weight is claimed
to be the most powerful engine
yet built. The engine has an
after-burner and develops half
its thrust as a ram-jet. Here
we have a slim aircraft of low
drag given the high thrust
needed for very high speed.
It is said that the Starfighter
is capable of 2000 m.p.h. in
level and climbing flight. The
world’s speed record is 1132
m.p.h. (British). Top speed of
the Starfighter is a well-guarded
secret, but the handout says
the Starfighter is capable of
Mach 2 speeds, level and
climbing. Mach 2 is more than
1500 m.p.h. at sea-level.
The fighter normally flies
at supersonic speeds and its
operation-altitude is the upper
stratosphere—above 50,000 ft.
To do this it has a new and
secret control-system involving
automatic equipment to aid the
pilot w'ho is now flying at
speeds which outdistance his
ability to respond. The Star-
“No!"
fighter has been called a
“guided-missile with a man in
it.”
Unlike the guided-missile,
however, the Starfighter must
slow-down for landing the same
as any other piloted plane.
This slow-down is achieved by
flaps on both leading- and
trail ing-edges and by a special
secret device. The plane is
practical for ordinary runways
used by jets.
The FIO4 is versatile. It can
be adapted to ground-attack
and tactical support and can
carry bombs and wing-tanks.
It is a fully operational aircraft
for squadron duty and would
be ideal for Australian
defences.— Gyro Joe (N.S.W.).
The Police
What better deterrent is there
to crime than the sight of
stalwart, uniformed policemen?
The vicious outbreak of
crime in Brisbane has drawn
attention to the lack of uni-
formed men, and to the amount
of time policemen have to
spend reporting piffling car-
accidents. Often nobody is hurt
and the damage to vehicles is
negligible. Other young police-
men have to spend hours
walking up-and-down sections
of city streets with a piece of
chalk trying to enforce park-
ing-bans.
Praise is due to suburban
police for the good work done
at peak-hours at busy shopping-
centres, when many thoughtless
drivers are checked from speed-
ing and endangering the lives
of people going and coming
from work, and children
getting in and out of buses
and trams on their way to
school.
Ghost-cars and utilities flit-
ting from place to place at night
are no doubt necessary to help
quell brawls, chase stolen
vehicles, or stop drunken
drivers. But they will
never take the place of police-
men doing a beat, who can
watch and investigate any
suspicious characters haunting
the city or suburbs. It is dis-
turbing to read of the number
of night-robberies and the
number of unsolved crimes.—
A. G. R. (Q.).
Space Fiction
Anvone who remembers
H. G. Wells’s War of the
Worlds can testify that the
treatment of the subject was
satisfactory even if you hated
space-stories. The reader was
entertained by a vivid imagina-
tion and a competent crafts-
man, and if you like this kind
of thing which I do you
were suitably fascinated by the
details, both mechanical and
technical, given in theoretical
support.
There are now many writers
of some stature, such as Robert
Henlein, serving up “science-
fiction,” and many of them are
extremely readable, although
it is an acquired taste.
On the other hand, there is
a large school who merely
utilise what is, after all, quite
a subject as a vehicle for third-
rate gangster tripe, by the
device of fitting the usual
framework of tough private
eyes, hick cops, dumb blondes
and corpses into a period where
we are supposed to take inter-
stellar space-drive and free-fall
as matters of daily routine.
The scope and extent of the
murders are vastly increased
of course, what with pocket-
blasters and ray-guns and so
forth, but the frightfully bad
writing is the same, and so
is the interest-value, because
the real subject is just dragged
along as a prop and there is
no attempt made to feature it
beyond a maze of pseudo-
technical jargon. .
This rubbish is cheating of
the lowest literary kind. If a
book describes itself as
“science-fiction,” I expect to
read all about weird adventures
on Mars, or some reasonably
intelligent planet full of
peculiar and horribie traps for
the unwary. But, above all, the
story must deal fairly and as
factually as possible with the
imaginative development of
horizons beyond our ken.—
R. H. G. (W.A.).
Country Art Show
A one-man exhibition put on
at Cowra (N.S.W.) by artist
Reg. Campbell (abetted by his
wife) drew the remarkable
attendance of 350 at the open-
ing. Most of the pictures were
painted locally (landscapes,
homesteads, scenes around
Wyangala Dam); the artist has
local connections and it was
widely known that he was
working in the district. Those
factors possibly had something
to do with the roll-up, but it
still proves that there are oppor-
tunities for the enterprising
painter outside the cities.
Red tags blossomed freely
on the opening-night (prices
ranged between two and 35
guineas, with the general run
about 10 or 12 guineas). The
artist also collected a number
of commissions to paint
favorite scenes on local pro-
perties.
I belong to the “I-know-
what-I-like” school of amateur
critics, so my views are virtually


valueless; but I found the
work competent, with, I think,
studied avoidance of any
extreme in style. Several tinted
sketches of local churches are
such drawings as the architect
produces when he wants to
show you what he imagines the
building will look like on com-
pletion.—lcinit (N.S.W.).
Trees
Australians are very similar
to the Chinese and Koreans.
We love to cut down trees.
And then, having cut one
down, we omit to plant a new
one.
Wood in Australia has
always been the main fuel for
heating and cooking because
of its cheapness and the ease
in obtaining it. For the
majority of those living in the
cooler States it is still the main
heating agent. A few do use
gas or electricity for that
purpose but their numbers are
negligible. In country districts
throughout the Commonwealth
wood is still very much the fuel
used for cooking.
The time is approaching—it
may have arrived already—
when we must find some alter-
native to wood, and use it. At
the rate we burn wood it will
not be long—particularly with
the increase in our population
—before we have denuded
Australia of trees. As the
forests have gone up our
chimneys, the rainfall has been
disturbed and floods have
become more devastating.
With the floods has come
erosion and through erosion
the destruction of invaluable
farmlands. And once the top-
soil—on which the world lives
—has been swept down the
flooding rivers it will take
many, many years to replace
it.
The world is crying out for
food while we are reducing our
fertile acreage. At this rate our
civilisation will not last much
longer. And to the number of
trees that are burned in Aus-
tralian fireplaces must be
added those, burnt in bush-
fires and those used in building
and other purposes.
The price of firewood in the
southern cities is now so high
that there is no real advantage
in using it instead of gas or
electricity. With suburbs being
pushed farther and farther into
the country, woodlands are dis-
appearing and the fuel-
merchants are having to travel
greater distances for their
supplies. This one factor alone
has caused the price to sky-
rocket in the last few years.
We must stop using wood in
our fireplaces and stoves. If
we cannot produce sufficient
coal to supply us with gas,
electricity and household coal
we shall have to import coal
from overseas until such time
as Australia will be using
atomic energy for domestic
purposes. But it will be better
for us to import coal than to
reduce our productivity any
further.
Even so, coal is not the solu-
“You said your husband upstairs Would pay—he said
the money s in your purse—you said you left your purse
on the kitchen table—he said Nonsense’—now it’s
YOUR move!”
tion for heating. We all know
that 75 per cent, of the heat
from an open fire goes up the
chimney and that one’s back
remains frozen whilst one’s
toes are scorched. Central
heating is really the only
answer, with an' oil-burning
furnace in the cellar and hot
air coming up through gratings
in the floor. But how many of
our ( suburban homes have
cellars, let alone an oil-burning
furnace?
Australians, as a rule, don’t
like the idea of living in flats
where the whole building could
be centrally heated, so what
can be done? We must either
do without fires in our houses,
which is absurd, or we must
use some fuel other than wood.
It would make very little
difference, really, which fuel
one chose as they are all very
expensive. But anything rather
than wood. It is the most
primitive, most inefficient and
most wasteful fuel there is.—
Yakipan (Vic.).
Adelaide's a Big Girl Now
Adelaide, whose width
of petticoat is limited by
her four restraining
terraces, is now stretching sky-
wards.
The old lady is no longer
esteemed for her pubs and
churches. A few of the old
beer-houses have vanished, but
in the matter of churches, if
respectability is judged by
numbers, then Adelaide is now
a wicked old hen.
The decline in the city
residential population forced
the issue. Occupying valuable
sites, the surplus churches now
function as factories and
business-houses.
Some hide behind modern
facades. Others stand “as was”
with the new business described
on the original notice-board!
Big-business and entertainment
have pushed west down
Hindley-street, the city’s old
“hot end," to where it.meets-
up with the migrants' business-
section. Here Continental shops
of all types supply the tradi-
tional wants of N.A.s.
TcpLSEWHERE in the city
modern office-blocks are
completed and occupied. One
gem is H. C. Sleigh’s building.
Designed in the architecture of
a couple of centuries back, it is
a delightful change from the
upended rectangles and glass
tomato-houses.
Four additional skyscrapers,
going-up to the maximum
height, are being built. The
“Advertiser” announces a fifth
to replace its 98-year-old build-
ing on the corner of King
William-street and Waymouth-
street.
The biggest is the Da Costa
building, owned by the Church
of England in Grenfell-street.
It will provide arcades for 38
shops on the ground-floor, with
13 floors of offices above, and
will cost £2 million. The
A.M.P. is lending half.
The story is that Da Costa,
a Roman Catholic pioneer, left
his cheaply acquired city acres
to the “Bishop of Adelaide” to
educate the young. A court
subsequently ruled that as the
R.C. diocese was an arch-
bishopric the only legal Bishop
of Adelaide was the C. of E.
head.
the facts, the
Bishop got the legacy,
and a big slice of the city’s
most valuable land is now
owned by the church.
St. Peter’s College is probably
the world’s richest diocesan
school.
The s.-e. and s.-w. residential
areas were taken over by
migrants. They are now being
ousted as their houses are
acquired by commercial
interests.
Even the few professional
lad res have moved. The stigma
associated with certain streets
has been replaced by the aura
of commercial rectitude.
In the main, Adelaide has
changed her trimmings from
pubs and churches to service-
stations and banks, with
insurance supplying the new
topdressing. If seven or more
industries set-up in one area
you can bet the oil people will
promptly collar the four nearest
corner-sites. The banks will
follow with smart branches in
new or remodelled buildings.
The city business-congestion
has created serious traffic
problems. The aged City
Fathers mumble in their beards
with the hesitancy of doubt.
They leave their cars home and
travel on free tram-passes.
However, they are sending the
Town Clerk abroad to see what
goes on in other places with
similar limitations to lateral
expansion. Old Opencut
(S.A.).


The Man They Wouldn't Hang
When the Cain Government, in January,
1953, commuted the death-sentence on
William John O’Meally for a cold-
blooded murder of a young Victorian
constable who had caught him interfer-
ing with parked cars, it appeared a gross
miscarriage of justice, and events have
shown that it was.
The first jury to try O’Meally found
him guilty, and the State provided funds
for appeals to the State Full Court and
even the Full High Court. They were
rejected, and it was then disclosed,
before the incoming Labor Government
decided his fate, that he had a career of
violence and had been convicted four
times for assaults on the police as well
as for other crimes.
In commuting the sentence, the
Executive Council decreed he should have
no remissions and stay in jail for life,
but no reason other than Labor “policy”
was advanced for the misguided clemency
to a callous murderer.
In the year after his appeals had
failed, O’Meally proved an intractable
and surly prisoner, and in September,
1954, a riot began at Pentridge at
3 p.m. and didn’t end until O’Meally,
under the influence of drugs or drink,
was locked in his cell. The riot followed
attempts to burn down the jail buildings.
Within another year O’Meally, with
four other dangerous convicts, including
John Henry Taylor, a gunman, had
escaped. Most of them were soon re-
captured and given a safe escort back to
Pentridge.
In their latest escape from Pentridge,
with the aid of a gun that had been
smuggled into the prison, O’Meally and
Taylor were at liberty for only a few
minutes, until the utility which they had
seized from a garage opposite the prison
was disabled, and although they were
still armed, the warders considerately
spared their lives by risking their own
in the capture.
O’Meally’s records, before and after
his murder of P.-c. Howell, show the
unquenchable, homicidal hate for
authority ; and Labor’s “policy” carried
out without an excuse has made him a
constant menace to warders, whose
morale has fallen since his incarceration,
and to other long-term prisoners.
The Bolte Government now proposes
to build a prison within Pentridge itself
for the worst criminals. Attorney-
General Rylah might also consider an
Act defining degrees of murder and their
punishment, investing its operation in the
Supreme Court and freeing politicians
from the burden of deciding who should
die, thus giving the worst murderers the
hope that they won’t hang because it isn’t
Labor “policy.”
Dimming the Lamps of
Learning
The Gair Bill for the appointment of a
University Appeals Board was not
sought by the University of Queensland
or any of its staff. On the contrary, it is
strenuously opposed by everyone con-
nected with the University on the
ground that it flouts the well-based
principle that a true -university must be
self-governing and free from outside
control, especially political control.
The University Staff Association holds
that the Appeal Board is objectionable in
principle and unworkable in practice. It
would permit appointments to be made
in the last resort by a Government-
nominated chairman of the board. (The
votes of the University representative
and the appellant’s representative would
cancel one another out.) As the chair-
man is appointed by the Government the
door is open to political influence. It is
feared that under such a system scholars
of high standard from other States and
from overseas would be discouraged
from applying for positions at the
University of Queensland.
A further danger would be that staff
members whose promotion depended on
the decision of a Government-nominated
chairman wouldn’t be inclined to engage
in that free expression of opinion which
is essential to a university. Standards
would inevitably suffer. A university
isn’t part of the public service, and a
system of appeals which may be suitable
for the public service is not suitable for
a university which must be free to recruit
its staff from all over the world if it is
to maintain the highest standards.
Government or political interference
with the internal management of a
university is something that cannot be
tolerated. If the Gair Government’s new
law is put into force the University of
Queensland can give up any hopes it may
have held of raising its standards and its
status in the eyes of the academic world-
at-large. The mere passing of the Act
may already have done it irreparable
harm.
"The Border Patrols"
[i rom J)r. Ji. A. Fairley, Corowa, N.S.W.I
The only wise remark (to me) in the
article “Border Patrols” (B. 27/ 3/’57) is
that regarding the need for a Common-
wealth Agriculture Department instead
of separate State departments.
1 understand Victoria has allocated
£90,000 a year for the last three years
for the control of fruit-fly alone —apart
from other departmental expenses N.S.W.
figures would be small in comparison.
Two N.S.W. inspectors have been in
Corowa over the past six weeks. Two
Victorian inspectors have been working
in Wahgunyah (just across the Murray).
There has been the closest co-operation
between them —all men of intelligence.
In Corowa the destruction of not one
single tree has been ordered. Two tall
pear-trees had to be lopped so that spray
could reach their tops.
In one household block (60ft. x 1601't.)
29 trees were counted. That householder
was advised to thin these to ensure
proper care of the remainder.
1 have found the N.S.W. inspectors
painstaking to a degree. They have re-
turned time and again for repeat-inspec-
tions of trees and fly-traps. They have
shown intense interest not only in fruit-
fly control but in all the facets of the job
—advising householders on pest- and
disease-control, soil-fertility, etc.
If these “departmental factotums” are
a fair sample of the department’s per-
sonnel, then N.S.W. is fortunate. What
is needed is more finance.
There is always the “personal element”
to contend with. If the department could
supply men to do the spraying and remove
trees where necessary—and charge the
householder with the cost —one would
make sure of success in a fruit-fly
campaign.
“ Congratulations— you are now under United Nations protection !”


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
reaching under beds.) “I got
these from the Turkish
Ambassador.”
Jan Masaryk was an easy
and engaging personality, more
an artist than a statesman. All
he ever wanted to do, he said,
was to play the piano, and I
believed him. A statesman by
the accident of being his
father’s son.
My Government hosts pro-
bably counted this as a routine
visit for me, but I had known
Jan of old. He was glad to
see me and we had a grand talk
about art. In the privacy he
spilled some political beans,
too. “Czechoslovakia a bridge
between East and West? No
fear! People walk on bridges! ”
The year was 1947. He
didn’t think much of the ability
of his Communist colleagues in
the Coalition Government, but
he would remain in it as long
as he could to help keep things
going ... he himself was for
the Marshall Plan, but Czecho-
slovakia was next-door to
Soviet Russia, and, he said, he
had to think of that ... he
hoped the Communists would
not be beaten too badly at the
coming elections, as seemed
likely, because if they were the
Russians might find some
excuse to interfere.
We sat at the open window,
I puffing the Turkish Am-
bassador’s cigar, looking out
across the balcony at the quiet
moonlit square. Prue made
an idle remark about the
ancient Czech custom of dis-
posing of enemies by “defenes-
tration.” Poor Jan. No
shadow marked the spot where
in a few short months he him-
self was to lie there broken
and dead on the stones below.
27
THE war had changed a
lot of things. The face
of Humanity. The
“Evening Standard.” Me.
With trade-unionism strong
and well organised and
Socialism shelved for the
reformism of the now univer-
sally approved Welfare State,
a new phase was opening
The old box of cartoonists’
dummies, fat, top-hatted,
white-spatted “Boss,” down-
trodden . “Worker,” ragged
“Unemployed” was obsolete.
Into the waste-basket.
The question was no longer
whether to make a better
world, but how. In that light
the political alignment Labor
against Conservative was as
out-of-date as Whig against
Tory or Roundhead against
Cavalier. The only contrast
that would have made sense
and might have produced use-
ful interplay was a Freedom
party against an Order party,
but that was too much to
expect. I grew sick of the
make-believe of the old party-
politics, and bored with the
many chaps who were so
terribly anxious to go “Left”
that they bent in a semicircle
and were coming back on the
“Right” without knowing it.
“Those damned words Right-
ism and Leftism!” as old
H. G. Wells would say. “In
the most vital human concerns
there is no right or left at all,
but just straight forward.”
time came when I
found myself helping to
write the last page in the story
of H.G.
When he died at 80 and his
friends met at the British Asso-
ciation for a memorial meet-
ing it was appropriate that
speakers should estimate his
character in sedate and
measured terms. But even as I
conformed to propriety my
thoughts returned to the little
asides and irrelevances that
give the public statue warmth
and humanity.
H.G. slapping a ball ; at a
party dressed-up fantastically
for a charade ; relating with
glee a story against himself
(H.G. and Charlie Chaplin
waiting at Bishops Stortford
platform for a train, when up
comes a local with autograph-
book. H.G. takes it, but owner
wrenches it back. “Not you—
-7m!”)
I think of the fun he was,
his rudeness (“I have never
had a bad oyster, but if I had
had, it would have been like
Hoover,” he says cheerfully
to a Republican Senator, of all
people, at an Anglo-American
dinner, of all places); I think
of his dissertations, expostu-
lations, sometimes followed
by his. full-arm swipes of
correspondence, which could
never damage in the least our
friendship.
I think of his high-pitched
voice explaining the meaning
of the war during the blitz,
discovering undemocratic inter-
ferences in public affairs by
the Royal Family, exposing
General de Gaulle.
It rings in my ear still,
vibrant with his endless eager-
ness to put right single-handed
the foolishness and stupidities
of mankind that obstinately
would not be put right.
next twenty pages of
my sketchbook are full of
the American Presidential elec-
tion of 1948. I went to Butte,
Montana, where I was to join
the Truman train en route
campaigning across the contin-
ent.
I had flown-in the night
before, and I spent the spare
time getting local reactions.
This was to be really a first-
class box-seat from which to
sample the condition of
democracy.
Butte was what they called
an “open town” —gambling-
joints and amusement-houses
open for business on the main
street with everybody free to
sin if he felt like it. A few
years ago it would have been
like an old-lime Western-
movie town. But the levelling-
out process had set in. The
cowboys wore their decorated
high boots and patterned
shirts, but they -wore no guns
and their ten-gallon hats had
come down to uniform fawn
quart-size.
My own hat was black and,
by comparison, wide-brimmed
—a social error, for only
crooked professional gamblers
wore hats like that, I learned
later. That hat generated
suspicion. The townsmen did
not loosen-up so readily.
I had an instructive time
wandering around listening to
the local worthies grappling
with world problems and pre-
paring for the arrival of the
President. Plonked down in
the copper-belt far from
friends, followed by question-
ing eyes at that blasted hat,
and with what seemed only the
most casual contacts with the
Presidential entourage, I felt
like anything but Two-gun
Low, the terror of the craps-
tables.
AT last I set off, carrying
my suitcase, to take my
place at the railway-station.
What a hope! Crowds blocked
the entrance. I had no ticket
in my lapel like other Import-
ant Persons. I had forgotten
the F. 8.1. Strong-arm guards
seemed to be everywhere, all
suspicious of my hat, obviously
fearing the bomb in my suit-
case, unwilling to listen to
explanations.
At last, steeled by necessity,
I bailed-up the most obvious
Secret Service man in sight and
shoved my passport under his
nose.
“Say, you aren’t Low, the
British cartoonist in the ‘New
York Times’?”
It turned out he was a fan
of mine.
So there I was now among
the local V.I.P.s waiting in
state to receive Mr. President.
What luck! Thank God for
syndication.
*TpHE President is of the
people, but, by virtue of
his office, a being apart. An
American among Americans,
but not to be held lightly.
Although the President’s
public character was that of
the “ordinary man,” the
journey was as royal a progress
as could be compatible with
popular democracy.
The President seemed a very
likeable man, free of what we
British call “side”; willing to
play ball with the press and
to co-operate with the photo-
graphers to make a good
picture. That was very import-
ant. My impression was that
the people wanted to look at,
rather than to listen to, the
President. This is the visual
age.
Cruising alongside the train
like a Rival Power were a
couple of trucks containing
photographic machinery and
the picture-men. They were
the important people, a tough-
looking bunch with set mouths,
restless eyes and wearing caps
and leather coats with an air
of desperate resolution, as
though there were a war on.
Fortunately the Trumans,
Harry, Bess and Margaret,
made a photogenic family-
group.
“In America we bank heavily
on the Family,” said a picture-
man to me, as he shot four
bulbs at Margaret’s bangles,
ignoring her father’s argu-
ments.
THE spectacle of Mr. Presi-
dent at half-past six in
the morning (Truman was an
early riser) alighting to pick
o Continued on page 64)


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE KOJONUP DISTRICT
17-OJONUP, right in the
centre of the clover-belt,
may w'ell become the richest
district of Western Australia in
not too many years.
Kojonup. the town, is 160
miles south-east of Perth on a
first-class bitumen-road, and is
the -centre of a thriving and
prosperous community.
The land, covered with
savannah-forest and -grassland,
is undulating, with few large
hills, and varies from the rich
red earths in the valleys and
on flats to a gravelly laterite
on ridges and hills. Some of
the richest soils under cultiva-
tion carried, in the virgin state,
open forest of moitch (E.
rudis). This tree has the
advantage of improving its
growth when in a topdressed
pasture-field and not robbing
the soil, as does the wandoo
( E. rednnccelata), which grows
in thick formation over much
of the Kojonup district.
Other timbers are jarrah,
raspberry, jam (Acacia
acuminata) and redgum (E.
calephylla). The limit of a
soil-type is defined by each type
of tree.
World consumption
of wool in 1956 was
the highest for any
year since the war. In
all wool-using coun-
tries the demand is
greater than ever
before and Australian
glowers can look for-
ward to unprece-
dented prosperity. To
derive m a x i m u m
benefits from wool’s
universal popularity
losses in lambs should
be carefully guarded
against. One way to
do this is to use Elas-
trator Rubber Rings
for marking and
tailing.
As a result of the variation
in soil-types, the size of farm-
paddocks varied considerably
in the early surveys. As a result,
a rich area of “jam” country
may be surveyed into 100-acre
lots, whereas a poorer soil-type
containing much gravel is seen
as a paddock of 600, 700, or
even more, acres. The average
size of paddocks is from 160
to 240 acres:
For many years the district
was held back by the huge
stands of “poison” (oxylobium
and gastrolobiuni), and the
hard work and heavy expense
of clearing the heavy timber.
Today, bulldozers have over-
come the clearing problems,
and poison has ceased to be a
problem of economic signifi-'
cance.
Until a decade ago, farmers
were worried by the difficulty
of establishing pasture on some
soil-types, and it was in this
district that the use of
zinc as a trace-element was
pioneered. Deficencies are now
corrected at the first-seeding
stage of development by means
of zinc-superphosphate, copper-
super., or manganese-super.,
depending on the soil-type.
Zinc for whitegum-land, copper
for moitch-soil, and manganese
for laterite-gravels.
Following success of trace-
elements, pasture-improvement
went ahead quickly, and the
acreage of sown improved-
pasture has increased sixfold.
Subterranean-clover and annual
dressings of 901 b. of super-
phosphate have provided the
key to a bountiful harvest in
all phases of agriculture.
Under an annual average
rainfall of 24in. that is spread
mainly from May to October,
the clover-pastures have lifted
carrying-capacity from 1 sheep
to 5 acres to H sheep to the
acre. The watershed of the
district is to the west and south-
west, and the lesser rivers and
creeks flow into the Balgarup
or the Beaufort, which, on
joining the Arthur from the
north-east, becomes the Black-
wood River, one of the longest
waterways in the State. Along
these rivers is to be found some
of the richest soil in the south-
western part of W.A.
Plentiful rainfall and sub-
terranean-clover have increased
the number of sheep in the
district tremendously. Wool
is the district’s real wealth.
An idea of the wool-yield
can be gained from the fact
that the State average-cut of
greasy-wool per head is 9.11 b.,
whereas the average-cut of
greasy-wool shorn in the
Kojonup district is 11.41 b.
Only one other district in
W.A. Gascoyne Minilya—
has more sheep, and here the
area is roughly 16 times that of
Kojonup.
Not only does Kojonup cut
more wool per head than other
districts, the wool is fine—6o
to 64’s. That’s the average
“I suspected they were 100 good to be true —
they're falsies."
count, but many flocks of even
finer types are now making
their appearance, under the
stimulus of the better prices.
As may be expected, the use
of superphosphate and clover
has so increased the nitrogen-
fertility of the soils that
pastures have, in many cases,
grown quite rank, with the late-
spring growth up to 1 Sin. high.
Dangerous, of course, when it
dries-off, and many farmers
have begun running a few head
of cattle to keep down the
rank growth.
Some of the larger farms
have already herds of 200 head
or so of good beef-cattle—
Herefords, Shorthorns and
Aberdeen Angus. Apart from
anything else a move towards
a more balanced pastoral usage.
The district is suited to just
about all dry-country agricul-
ture: wheat, oats, barley, fruit
(choice apples, pears, peaches,
and cherries). Flax has been
grown for a number of years in
the western section of the
Kojonup district, whence
it is hauled to the mill at Boyup
Brook, 50 miles to the west.
Pigs, poultry and turkeys have
always been profitable sidelines.
The acreage of wheat, oats
and barley has increased, and
three years ago bulk-handling
facilities were installed. Six-
row barley is by far the largest
quantity of grain exported.
Although more oats are
actually grown, part of the
crop is usually retained on
farms as sheep-fodder, to tide
over the three very dry feedless
months of February, March
and April. Two-row barley of
the Maltworthy variety is
grown for the Perth market.
Brewers prefer Kojonup barley
to barley from other parts of
the State.
The district doesn’t grow a
lot of export-wheat, but
farmers grow enough for their
own needs. The Yalta variety,
from New South Wales, has
won favor ; if yields well, and
can stand the wet winter. This
writer has grown crops of
Yalta (wheat) yielding 51
bushels to the acre, Avon
(oats) yielding 63 bushels, and
Maltworthy two-row barley
yielding 57 bushels. If and
when a variety or varieties are
specially bred for the wetter
districts, some phenomenal
results may be^expected.
The town of Kojonup, with a
population of 1081, is well-
placed on a bitumen highway,
and is at a cross-roads of
another bitumen road from
Katanning (a flour-mill town


PET ROt
€±=sa
n
m
r\
i
B
3fc
More for your money 1n style . . .
More for your money in action, too /
More, far more than just lovely to look at, Holden’s a thrilling car to drive.
For Holden offers you the kind of performance that’s ideal for Australian
conditions. You have the quiet smoothness of six cylinder power at lowest cost.
Hills flatten as though by magic when challenged by Holden’s surge of 70 gross
brake horsepower—wherever you go Holden performance is there whenever
you need it.
You’ll find more than simply engine performance in Holden, too. There’s
the magnificent way Holden’s re-circulating ball steering responds to your
slightest wish ... the way its steady rid« holds firm and true on the roughest
road you travel.
Take a Holden out on the road for yourself, discover the hidden charm of
Holden, see for yourself how much more Holden offers you for your money.
Convenient GMAC hire purchase terms are available.
There are two “Air Chief ” Car Radios specially designed for Holden. *
HOLDEN 11 ’ Australia’s Own Car
*regd. From £9lO plus Tax.
8206
General Motors-Holden’s Limited • Brisbane • Sydney • Melbourne • Adelaide • Perth
-25 miles east) to Boyup Brook,
Bridgetown, and Bunbury, the
south-western port. Bunbury
is 104 miles west.
The Kojonup area is well
served by an imaginative and
progressive local Road Board,
which not only has a large
plant of its own but is contri-
buting on a £-for-£ basis to the
Main Roads Department
scheme for the bitumen-surfac-
ing of secondary roads. As a
result, Kojonup has a network,
of roads, a number of which
are partly bitumised. So most
farmers are within 15 miles of
a decent road.
Until 1941 Kojonup was
badly served by rail, the line
being a loop from Katanning to
Picton Junction, four miles
from Bunbury and site of the
superphosphate works supply-
ing this area. Stock-trains with
one coach attached took 18
hours to Perth, as against four
hours by road. In 1941 a bus-
service was commenced, and
within a year had made £2OOO
profit, a sure sign for the need
for it. Since 1946 another bus-
service from Katanning to
Bunbury links-up with a fast
train to Perth.
Stock-trains to Perth still run,
and the line pays its way with
the heavy quantity of freight;
but most farmers with their
own trucks cart stock to the
saleyards themselves. Fat-
stock sales are held at Midland
Junction, near Perth. Stores
are sold in Kojonup saleyards,
or at Katanning, where there is
a big buying power from
farmers up and down the Great
Southern Railway.
The C.5.1.R.0.- Research
Station, Glen Lossie, a mile
from the town, is the site of
much of the C.5.1.R.0. research
in W.A.
With the rise in wool-prices in
1950, the town went ahead
dramatically. It now has a
brickworks and two timber-
mills, a seed-grading and
-distribution factory, and
numerous new business-
premises, including four banks.
The Kojonup Co-operative Co.,
which has 450 farmer-share-
holders, makes around £20,000
profit for the year, after pro-
vision for taxation.
The town has a 15-bed
hospital, and, as a result of a
district referendum, a new rate
for three years will, on a £-for-£
basis, provide a new wing of
seven additional beds, to cost
£30,000.
Sporting activities are well
catered for ; within the last
four years, a fine bowling-club
has come into existence with
large dam, 16 rinks, debt-free
licensed club-house, and fine
gardens. New cricket- and
hockey-ground, tennis-courts
and football-field have -been
levelled, ready for laying to
grass. Other sports are catered
for by a golf-club, rifle-club,
and newly-formed gun-club.
The wave of prosperity in
wool has ironed-out, and costs
largely caught-up with income.
In this district a lot of money
has been put back into the
land: many hundreds of
acres of new clearing, earth-
tanks of 1500 to 2500 cu.-yds.,
steel-woolsheds, new fences,
new machines.
When it is realised that the
average price of improved land,
with buildings, is about £l2 an
acre, and that it costs £lO to
pasture an acre —an undertak-
ing requiring 6001 b. super, over
a period of four years, plus
clearing-costs of varying
amount before it pays any great
amount in return —it will be
seen that improved land is a
cheap investment.
A number of farmers are
making a good living from 700
acres, but the general “living
area” is twice that, and some
farms are up to 3000 acres.
It wouldn’t be advisable for
a young man to start on a
virgin farm today unless he
had at least £5000; £IO,OOO
would be better.
But, all the same, the
Kojonup district, despite the
area of land in production, still
has much uncleared country.
The prosperity of the district


will obviously be increased
when this, too, comes into
production.
B. D. RAVEN.
Freak Lambing
“Foxy”: Lambing season
commenced with a flutter on
S.A.’s west coast (Eyre
Peninsula). One owner’s 11-
year-old stud Merino ewe, after
producing offspring twice a
year for several seasons and
at least 20 lambs in her life-
time, surprised herself and the
greybeards this season by pro-
ducing triplets. At last report
the family was doing well.
Another, less happy, report
from the same area of the death
of a prized ewe from an
unknown disease. On post-
mortem it was found she
was carrying six well-developed
lambs. The expert who carried
out the p.m. said he's heard of
twin-pregnancy disease, but
hexa-pregnancy was a new one
to him.
Better Beef
“Bob”: Inland cattlemen
can now send their young
beasts south to be fattened ; a
better proposition than putting
condition on them up north
and walking it off again on
the way to market.
This policy has been helped
greatly by the tremendous
advance of pasture-improve-
ment in South Australia —
nearly 2,500,000 acres in 25
years.
Another factor has been the
increased use of good bulls in
the north and the outlawing
of scrubbers.
Nevertheless, to take full
advantage of these develop-
ments, better transport is a
necessity. The diesel-electric
loco, has been a great help,
but there are still big areas —
particularly at the back of
Queensland —where more rail-
roads would result in more
quality beef.
New Flax Varieties
“C.A.A.”: Two new fibre-
flax varieties produced by the
Victorian Department of
Agriculture have given im-
proved yields and have success-
fully resisted rust.
Named Curr o n g and
Standard, they are the result
of trials which have gone on
since the early war-years. A
test-crop of Currong grown at
Mt. Gambier (S.A.) last season
produced 72cwt. to the acre and
was entirely free from rust,
which has been a serious draw-
back with the imported variety
Thai Crown, hitherto widely
used here.
Plots of Standard tried in
Gippsland (Vic.) yielded up to
87cwt. an acre and also resisted
rust. In addition, both new
varieties have shown resistance
to flax-wilt.
Starting Pastures
“Patho”: The more thor-
oughly the land is prepared
for paslure-seedings the more
successful the improvement-
project is likely to be. .It is
very well to talk about intro-
ducing sub.-clover into natural
grasses by spinning the seed
out with the super, at topdress-
ing-time, but, although cheap
and easy, this is eventually a
very slow way of doing the
job.
As germination is usually
poor, the rate of seeding should
be higher than when the job is
done from a drill or combine
into fallow.
Best results from broadcast-
ing can be expected when the
natural sward has been eaten
to the ground before the
spinner is used, and the job is
followed by “tickling” the soil
with the grass-harrows or disk-
harrows to cover the seed.
Although this cover is
essential especially with a
plant like sub.-clover which
buries its seed naturally—it can
be overdone when pasture-seed
is mixed with the super, and
sovyn at the normal depth for
cereals. If it is impossible to
avoid mixing pasture-seed with
the super., do the mixing as
near as possible to the time of
sowing.
When establishing pasture
With a cover-crop, the only sure
way is to use a seed-attachment
which drops the seed on the
surface. Light harrows or a
chain are sufficient to cover it.
Most pastures do belter if they
can be established without a
cover-crop, but a cereal helps
to finance the job. In addition,
cereal-straw protects young
pasture-plants during their first
summer and early autumn. If
the cover-crop is grazed in the
winter, make sure the sheep do
not eat the young pasture-
plants or destroy them by
pugging.
If the land to be sown can-
not be fallowed for long, grow
a summer-crop of rape on it
and work the land for autumn-
ln many cases com-
paction of the soil by the sheep
grazing the rape helps greatly
in establishing the pasture.
Locating Lice
“Boga”: Although lice are
very small —about 20 of them
to the inch —and creamy, they
can be found on a sheep fairly
easily if you go about it in the
right W'ay.
They are usually in the wool
on a sheep’s shoulder and side.
Grasp the sheep firmly by the
fiank and apply upward and
outward pressure. Put one
hand under the sheep's neck,
lift, and sit the animal on its
rump, leaning on your legs.
In this position a sheep
rarely struggles, and the
shoulder is near at hand. Sheep
should be examined in a good
light, but not in strong, glaring
sunlight. Part the wool at
several places on the shoulder
and down the side. Even a
light infestation can be seen
and subsequently controlled
before it causes much damage.
Tobacco-spraying
Machine
“Moore”: The constant effort
of spraying tobacco-crops with
a knapsack-spray may be a
thing of the past. Jn February
this year a prototype tobacco-
spraying machine was designed
and built by K. Nowland and
S. Bayley, of Inglewood (Q.),
where much tobacco is grown.
It could revolutionise the
work of controlling tobacco-
pests. With about 6000 plants
to the acre and an average of
six acres to control, tobacco-
growers, spraying 10 or 12
times during the three-months
growing-period, walk dozens
of miles operating knapsack-
sprays.
The self-powered unit is
built on the tricycle principle,
is 1 Oft. long with rear-tracks
Bft. wide, and is able to clear
tobacco-plants 7ft. high.
Mounted on rubbers, it has a
4-cylinder 10-h.p. motor, and
a road-speed of 30 m.p.h.
With an independent
hydraulic-braking system, the
machine can turn in a circle of
20ft.
On the crop it sprays at a
speed of 14 m.p.h. or more,
so is capable of spraying four
or five acres an hour. The
boom-spray is adjustable over
a width of 40ft., or 10 rows of
tobacco, in one sweep from the
storage-tank, which holds 90
gals, of spray.
Tested in the field, the
machine has a Jot of interest,
and a second machine is being
built: a Holden motor to
provide more power for the
fitting of hydraulic-equipment
for scuffling and scarifying will
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford
Wool Type Card. This Card
has many uses—as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered—in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed,
or in the paddock, with a
type, perhaps, outside the
main run of your experience.
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing.
A comparison study, using
the Bradford Wool Type
Card, eliminates the possi-
bility of error. Your name
and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to
“The Bulletin” will send one
on its way.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(4/4/’57)
Moderate rains, mainly below normal, are indicated for
Queensland during May, although the peninsula, north-west
and far west may get only poor rainfall; but the far south-
west and southern border may receive fairly heavy rains.
General rains, above average, throughout N.S.W. during
May, with the heaviest falls on the coast, and particularly on
the north coast, where there is a likelihood of severe
flooding.
Good general rains, too, throughout Victoria during
May, but rainfall should be moderate during June and July.
Widespread heavy rains are indicated in South Aus-
tralia during May, but these are not substantiated on the
Main cycle, which suggests no good rains until July.
With the exception of poor rainfall in the Kimberleys,
heavy general rains are likely in Western Australia during
May, with very heavy falls on the coast from Geraldton
southwards.
LENNOX WALKER.


make this machine capable of
three jobs.
Contract-spraying will be
undertaken next season, and
machines will be made for
sale to large growers in the
area.
Irrigation-channels
“Billjim”: In constructing
irrigation-channels, see that
they have a continual fall, with
the bed at, or near, ground-
level. They will then drain out
after each watering and be
much easier to keep free from
weeds. Placing of extra earth
on the channel-line during pre-
liminary grading may be neces-
sary to achieve the desired
level. In making a channel-
stop, see that the wings are
embedded at least a foot
into the cha n n e 1-banks
(f. urther in sandy Soil)
and extend a similar distance
below the bed of the channel,
with the bottom of the opening
at bed-level.
Crossbred Hens
“F.”: Australorp - While
Leghorn crossbred fowls out-
laid all others in a breed pro-
duction-trial in Queensland.
In a 48 weeks’ laying-test, a pen
of 80 returned an average of
189 eggs a bird.
If this production is calcu-
lated over a full laying-year, it
comes to over 200 eggs a bird.
The group’s score would have
been higher but for losses
due to cannibalism. Six
of the eight birds lost died
as the result of cannibalism.
In the trial, which was con-
ducted at the Kairi regional ex-
periment-station, the opposite
cross —White Leghorn-Austra-
lorp birds—recorded the next-
best performance. The aver-
age of this group was 179.4
eggs a bird. Purebred Austra-
lorps laid an average of 176.6
eggs a bird, and purebred
White Leghorns 156.1.
In terms of food-efficiency,
the White Leghorn-Australorp
cross had a slight lead in
ability to convert food into
eggs. They required 7.381 b. of
food per dozen eggs, while the
opposite cross ate 7.411 b.
Purebred Australorps needed
7.661 b. of food per dozen eggs,
and purebred White Leghorns
8.291 b.
An interesting sidelight of
the trial was the fact that the
same Australorp and White
Leghorn sires were used to
produce both purebred and
crossbred stock/ This was
made possible by the use of
artificial-insemination.
During the laying-trial, a
check was kept on the inci-
dence of broodiness in all
groups. This was done be-
cause it is known that the Aus-
tralorp-White Leghorn cross is
more prone to broodiness than
the opposite cross.
The frequency of broodiness
in the Australorp-White Leg-
horn groups, however, was no
greater than in any other
breed-group. The reason for
this is linked with the fact that
the Australorp parents of this
cross had been selected against
broodiness for years.
Human Error
“B ell bird” : The main
reason why diseases and pests
persist, despite modern develop-
ments, is the human error on
the farm.
For instance, the way to
control footrot in sheep has
been known for many years,
yet the disease still causes an
immense amount of damage.
The main reason is some small
fault in doing the job on the
property: maybe inadequate
paring because of fatigue ;
possibly insufficient footbath-
ing ; or perhaps careless
management in allowing clean
sheep to come into contact with
a diseased mob.
Again, research-workers can
control many orchard-pests
and -diseases, but orchardists
often strike trouble, even when
they think they are doing what
they have been told.
Perhaps the critical time to
do the job came at the weekend
and Monday’s spraying was too
late, or the power-spray-
machine was moving at 8 m.p.h.
instead of the recommended
5 m.p.h. ; and so the chemical
wasn’t applied as recommended
to each tree.
Research-workers, in making
their recommendations, can
only allow for a reasonable
margin of error at the other
end. The moral is to follow
advice to the letter, not accord-
ing to convenience.
Reclamation Fencing
“Boneo”: Where patches of
soil are being reclaimed it is
important to protect*them from
erosion and from damage by
salt. The principle is the same
in each case—establish, and
keep, a strong vegetative cover,
and manage the grazing care-
fully by fencing the area.
Against erosion, a thick
sward of grasses and clovers
not only covers the bare area
but also helps to rebuild
fertility ; hence producing the
type of soil which can resist
"No, no, dear! Let Mother keep it on the mantelpiece for you."
washing and blowing much
better than one which has been
overcropped or overgrazed.
Reclaiming salt - affected
country, it’s essential to main-
tain a strong growth of tolerant
plants, whose roots and leaves
help to keep the saline-solution
away from the surface, where
it gets more concentrated, and
therefore dangerous, by
evaporation.
Best species to try are straw-
berry-clover, sea barley-grass,
paspalum, Wimmera ryegrass,
and even lucerne. Give them
plenty of super., graze them
lightly, and don’t forget to
fence them in.
Round Seed
“Orrorroo”: Potato-growers’
prejudices against round seed
should be ended now the
Victorian Department of
Agriculture has established that
there is no advantage in cutting
sets: especially as varieties
now are relatively free of
virus-diseases, which were
probably responsible for
small tubers, from round seeds
in the old days.
It has been shown that
cutting seed is not only a
waste of time and money but
increases the chance of such
diseases as blackleg in the
crop.
Results of six years’ experi-
ments at the Healesville potato-
research station show that, with
one exception, there’has been
no difference in the yield of
No. 1 grade potatoes, whether
from round or cut seed. In
the exceptional year, round
seed yielded 24 tons an acre
better than cut seed.
Round seed produces the
greater number of tubers within
the 14oz. to 12oz. range. There
is no difference in the total
weight produced within this
range or above or below it.
Within the Hoz. to 3oz. and
3oz. .to 12oz. ranges, round
seed produces a more even
run of tubers.
Round seed produces plants
with the greater number of
stalks.


model. You’ll like her. Shall
we pop into, the office and
clinch it before she gets away?”
“This one won’t get away
from me !” Mr. Fleischman
was drunk on Joe’s enthusiasm.
Joe had an easy knack of
selling cars. He knew cars
inside-out. He’d turned them
inside-out. But never with
fatal results ... He was a good
driver, had been a racing-
driver ... A good driver but
accident-prone. The crashes
had been well spaced-out, but
regular. His hard good-looks
included a broken nose and a
crescent scar on his forehead.
None of which would have
mattered had he not carried
his accident-proneness into all
his affairs. He couldn’t out-
grow an occasional —almost
seasonal urge to do the
dangerous thing. Mostly he
got away with it.
It was this tie of remembered
recklessness that bound Joe and
Evan. The war-time days when
they’d been teamed in clandes-
tine stunts were distant and
dim round the edges. But the
tie held.
Evan was steadying faster
than Joe. A three-story fall is
a good steadier. So is marriage.
For Joe, Evan was pinning all
his hopes on Anne,
TT was a hard party on Friday
night. Hard businessmen
drinking hard liquor, red-faced
over red-shelled sea-foods,
Blue floor-show in a blue spot-
light. Hard handshakes and
husky belly-laughter. Over-
proof goodfellowship sucked-
in.supercharged. A hard party,
Joe summed it up at first
glance and took it easy, but
still got a skinful. Evan
summed it up and held out his
glass for more. After all, Joe
was driving.
Joe steered Evan through a
forest of farewells to the car.
It would have seemed a sound
idea for Evan to sleep in the
back. But the back was
chockful of cigarette-samples,
and a couple of suits Evan had
collected from a cleaner were
spread neatly over the smokes.
So Evan slept alongside Joe in
front.
Under any conditions driv-
ing was a pleasure for Joe.
Again the beach-road sang
under the tyres and the air
whoomed over the streamlined
shape of the car. The dingy
smell of the stagfest was
washed away by the salt wind
from the sea. The drinks Joe
had had begun to give him a
delayed good feeling. He lit
a smoke and drove on, touch-
ing 70 along the straights.
He half-roused Evan at the
little bungalow and helped him
in.
“No parcels in the back?”
Evan murmured.
“No.”
“Good. No head-on prangs,
No windows even, indeed.
Goo’-night, Joe.”
“Goodnight, Evan.”
WINDOWS! Approaching
™ the big house on its
shaven lawns Joe switched-off
and coasted. There was a light
in a side-window. Jenny’s
window. He let the car roll
to a standstill. Got out and
walked over the lawn to the
window. Tapped.
“Who’s there?”
“Joe.”
“Go away, Joe!” in k tense
whisper. “Come for a swim
tomorrow ! Mummy and
Dad”
Joe raised the window and
went in.
Jenny was as scared as a
good girl should be, and more.
The effort of pianissimo pro-
motion and proposition used
the dregs of Joe’s alcohol
energy. He passed-out in an
armchair.
Accepting the situation as
the best she could achieve with-
out making a noise, Jenny, too,
slept. Her father and mother
slept. The big house slept.
It was two-o’clock in the
morning . . .
TOE woke suddenly at five,
J heard a crash of glass and
another crash of glass.,
Shoes off, coatless, and full
of hazy guilt, he leaped to the
window.
Men round the car, smash-
ing into it. Evan’s car! Bloody
thieves!
Joe went through the
window and over the lawn and
found, try as he would, he
could go no further. The thick
arms of two plainclothesmen
embraced him.
“Is this your car?”
“Well, no —but”
“Did you park it here?”
“Yes, but God! What
are they smashing it for?”
“It’s been on fire. Can’t
you even see the fire-truck?”
“Fire-truck?”
“Can’t you see the smoke or
smell it?”
“I’ve just woken up.”
“You live here?”
"No ! God, no! ”
“You’ve spent the night
here?”
“Look what the hell’s
happened?”
“To the car?”
“Yes.”
“Someone’s chucked a
burning cigarette-butt into
a stack of smokes in the
back and set about two
thousand cigarettes and
the inside of the car on
fire. Only the closed
windows cut out the air;
stopped it reaching the
tank. The car’s had it,
anyway. Where did you
get the car — and the cigarettes?
And the clothes in the back?”
A VIOLENTLY pyjama’d
man who looked like
Bismarck and a hurriedly-
gowned woman who looked
like Lady Macbeth skull-
dragging Jenny between them
interrupted the interrogation.
“Do you know this man?”
said one of the detectives, jerk-
ing a semi-clad and still dazed
Joe around to face the new
arrivals, and shining a torch on
him.
“Ohhh—yes!” said Jenny
with V.C., unthinking heroism.
She must have really liked
Joe. In that she was alone.
Elsewhere hostility increased
in geometric progression.
“Did he spend the night with
you?”
The policeman’s words
crashed like elephants’ feet
through the brittle situation.
“Who is he?”
“A friend. Oh, just a
friend! ”


The silence made more noise
than the sizzle of fire-
extinguishers. Jenny’s parents
were drawing breath. The
police were drawing con-
clusions.
“You’d all better come along
to the station,” said the senior
plainclothesman.
“1 intend to,” said the father
of Jenny. “I’ve charges to lay
against this man! ”
“You’ve got charges!” said
the policeman.
Joe’s early mutterings on his
own behalf had been inhibited
through considerations for
Evan, whose firm owned the
burnt-out car, and for Jenny,
who now owned a sort of burnt-
out parental relationship.
His incoherent replies to
run-of-the-mill queries reeked
of theft and rape-attempt to the
police. He was in a spot.
Thoughts of Anne's reaction to
the likely publicity made the
spot a bed of nine-inch nails.
OO Joe was startled at the
police-station when a
friendly voice came through
the spate Of accusation. It came
from a detective-sergeant with
whom Joe had shared social
occasions :
“What’s all the strife, Joe?”
Joe clutched him like a straw
in mid-Atlantic.
“Look, Mike, for a start it’s
Evan Davies’s car—he let me
use it to get home after I’d
dropped him home.”
“What’s Evan’s address?
We'll go and get him.”
“He’s asleep now.”
“We can handle that.”
“Ptchah! Grunchhh!” said
Evan.
“Your car’s been destroyed.
We want you to come”-
“Not my car Austral
Tobacco's,” said Evan.
“Know the manager’s
address?”
“Card in coat-pocket—there
on the chair.”
“Good. We’ll bring him
along too.”
“Aw, leave it till the morn-
ing!” Evan advised them with
a dull- groan.
They dragged him out of
bed. There was no Jeeves-
technique in the putting-on
of Evan’s clothes. A shade
more courtesy was shown in
the dawn-awakening of Evan’s
boss. But even so it didn’t
leave him favorably disposed
towards Evan, or, in fact,
towards anyone.
The two new and unwilling
recruits to the general chaos
were hustled to the police-
station. When mystified or even
puzzled, the police leave no
stone unturned. Never, Evan
was wont to say later, mystify
or puzzle the police. It be-
came, for some reason or other,
almost an equal obsession with
“Don l go through windows/’
All Evan got out of this
episode was a brace of brand-
new “Don’ts.”
*
BACK at the police-station
Jenny’s parents were
vociferously demanding to
charge Joe with breaking and
entering, loitering with intent,
and straight-out seduction.
Sergeant Mike sorted that
one out.
“He was admitted to the
house by your daughter. He
was a guest."
Austral Tobacco’s manager
said, “Mr. Evan Davies is
our employee. He has our
authority to use the company’s
car to return home after work.’"
“Mr. Joe Hobey,” said Evan;
“is a friend of mine. Tonight
he used the car with my per-
mission. The fire that destroyed
the car is just one of those
things!”
Nobody knows what Jenny
said, because Joe never saw
her again. We do know what
Joe said.
“Look, Evan," he said, “I’m
bloody sorry. Did you get the
sack?”
“Of course. Indeed. And
deservedly. And you?”
“What you said.”
“Do you feel windows, joe,
are now out of your system?”
“I do!"
‘Then life for us should from
now on flow more smoothly.”
TAESPITE the lurid press-
*** reports of the episode, all
Anne had to say was “Yes,” or
“I do,” as the case might be.
Whatever it is the Annes
have, Joe used to reckon after-
wards, you don’t have to go
through windows to get it.
EVE
VICTORIA.
The leaf, aflame, twirled between his fingers
And the dark bird trilled among the elders;
Flowing, her hair wafted gently to the end
And stars broke again as on the fourth day.
The kino snuffed the candle and motioned
Toward the moonlight. Her golden hair
Rose slowly and traversed one glittering gem ;
Gravely a spirit turned upon the wax.
In the shaded brake her eyes scaled down air
And wonder softly came by the ancient paths
To leafage and tendrils and sea-field of his hair
And then, night and day spun on again.
NOEL MACAINSH.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 430
Across
I—-Strode into this country. (6)
4—Nonsense before 500 off the fairway. (8)
10 — Not lodgings in an igloo where announcements might be
posted.- (6-5)
11— Pastry cookery. (3)
12 — Yours Truly gets up flowers. (6)
13 — Minor planetary body makes Doris eat. (8)
15 — Do I annoy the relatives of the
fuel gaiter. (11)
18 — It’s human. (3)
19— Box office takes a reptile. (3)
21 —Rubber stomach comes to a
candle tea. (11)
24 — Tee about 1000 lost blood and
shook. (8)
27 —Employments warble in the
United States. (6)
29 — High-priest of Shiloh. (3)
30 — An electorate vehicle shut up an
operatic number. (11)
31 — They bridge an English queen in
the middle; (8)
32 — Pole who composed a cutlet at
home when called. (6)
Down
1 — Dipping a colored ruler. (7)
2 Fresh hearing in the smashed
trailer. (7)
3 Fighting shy of Esmond dealing
with Wrigley’s. (9)
5 A slur can be expected in the
mountains. (5)
6 Small anchor. (5)
7 Admonish a cloth and wander. (7)
8 — Who fears the pence peruser? (7)
9 Recede. (3)
14 —Silly figure towards the ship’s
rear. (4)
16 — Knowledge about a famous
Shakspearian. (4)
17 — Coward’s reason for scratching
the Colin’s disorder. (5, 4)
19 —Spreads bread rams and billy-
goats. (7)
20 —A first person objectively fired a
Galli-Curci. (7)
22 — Not able to tear a witch’s spell.
(7)
23 — Go without the seaman stigma.
(7)
25 — Essayist who has got a degree
with study? (5)
26 Mistake. (5)
28 —A sign of convenience. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 429


a dewy rose from a railroad-
track garden for the benefit of
the photographers was an
affecting sight.
But the privilege was not
to be trifled with, and there
were limits. Mr. President was
nobody’s mug.
For instance: it was Mr.
President’s custom to pass
along through the corres-
pondents’ car now and then
to greet old friends and
encourage new arrivals. Two
solid bodyguards were always
right behind him, but Truman
was so matey one didn’t notice
them.
One morning a knot of the
boys were recreating with a
game of poker, when in popped
Mr. President, particularly
frolicsome. He paused to talk
to Bob over the shoulder of
one of the players at a.hand
of cards.
“Uh-huh! ” says he. “What’s
here?” Digging into a trouser-
pocket he produced and play-
fully waved a handful of
dollar-bills. “What will you
take for that hand, Oscar?”
Click! The shutter of a
camera.
Whoosh! The camera
whipped out of the photo-
grapher’s hands by the body-
guards, the film removed and
exposed to daylight. Quickest
thing I ever saw.
What a picture that would
have made! A circle of hard-
boiled gamblers, coats off, dis-
arrayed in neckwear and
suspenders, concentrated, grim,
chips piled high, with the
President of the United States
leaning over flashing a handful
of dollars, like the boss of
some joint. What political
repercussions! A picture to
alter world history.
THE mechanics of the tour
were almost routine. The
flag-wagging reception on the
rear-car platform, tiny-tot with
presentation flowers, Governor,
prominent citizens, male and
female, handshakes, back-
slappings, “a few words,”
‘‘your friend and my friend,”
jokes, presentation fishing-
rod ... all (me, too) into a
fleet of cars for progress to
town centre for official speech,
back again to train and off.
So far as speech went Harry
was demonstrably better “off
the cuff” than reading from a
script, which was a great worry
to a curly-headed gentleman
who sat secluded away all day
carefully writing out the Right
Things for him to say accord-
ing to wherever we were. The
Boss was apt to forget and
come out with something
chipper extemporised on the
spur of the moment to loud
applause.
AND now on to democracy
at work, a Republican
Convention at Philadelphia.
“Who will be nominated?”
I asked.
“Dewey, of course.”
But the preliminaries had to
be observed.
A British stranger to Ameri-
can politics might have been
excused for mistaking in the
milling parades, the singing,
buttons, cardboard-elephants,
waving portraits and slogans,
the comic hats and the
unstoppable band just a con-
fusion suggestive of Boat Race
night and Derby Day held
together in the Albert Hall.
But sitting aloft in the feverish
heat, I was in the right place
to discern a certain order in
the proceedings. At intervals
a hush fell and distinguished
statesmen made keynote
speeches or named favorite
sons, viewing with alarm and
pointing with pride, adjusting
sectional interests and giving
clarion-calls. These were
listened to with due respect.
But obviously the interludes
were the thing.
All around me sat perspir-
ing experts making abstruse
calculations. The duration of
ovations, timed with stop-
watch, the movements of key
persons, their expressions, their
visitings, their tic-taC signals,
each had its significance to be
carefully watched, added, sub-
tracted and multiplied. The
method of repetitive and
eliminative voting lent itself
to involved negotiation and
the grand strategy.
The negotiations were con-
tinued even more sensationally
after the conference adjourned
for the day to the smoke-filled
back-rooms.
And at last there was Mr.
Dewey on the rostrum, every-
body’s unanimous choice,
promising to love, honor and
obey. Small head and large
carnation.
My impression was that the
whole thing could have been
settled over the telephone. All
the same, I enjoyed it. There
is no reason why politics
should not be a holiday.
Tp OR contrast I went to
Hollywood. I had only
ten days and I chose to spend
them visiting the big execu-
tives of the film-industry, the
producers, directors —the chaps
who told the other chaps what
to do.
I had heard and read for
years of this fabulous land of
make-believe where stars of
the silver-screen dwelt in
luxurious homes surrounded
with polo-ponies, halls of
mirrors and swimming-baths.
But in summer, 1948, Holly-
wood was making heavy
weather. The weather was
sweltering, the outlook was
blue. Big operators had just
unloaded film interests and
bought into television.
The hospitable and generous
American magazine “Life”
had arranged for me to live as
its guest at beautiful and sooth-
LASKI
ing Santa Monica, in the
Yacht Club, a luxurious hotel
converted from a splendid
house built originally by W. R.
Hearst and once occupied by
Miss Marion Davies.
I had the suite which, I was
reliably informed, had been
the night-apartment of Miss
Davies herself. The sitting-
room was large enough to
house a public meeting, and
when I retired for sleep into
the farther room I felt as lonely
as Orphan Annie.
IT INSPECTED the Holly-
wood institutions of the
time: Louis B. Mayer’s enor-
mous desk, which I had heard
had a telephone at each end
so that contact might not be
cut (a gross exaggeration); the
M.G.M. Staircase of Sighs
with the two endless files of
minor hierarchy, those blessed
going up, those damned going
down ; Daryll Z a n u c k ’ s
luxuriously furnished Torture
Chamber, and the very riding-
whip with which, I was assured,
he thrashed yes-men that
turned.
Sam Goldwyn’s big car
which, they said, ran by his
side as he walked home for his
health in case he swooned. The
legendary Sam in real life
proved to be a genial per-
sonality. It was quite true that
he consistently misquoted
names. “Glad to see you, Mr.
Lee. Take that chair, Mr.
Lord. A cigar, Mr. Lincoln?
Well, how do you like the
coast, Mr. Langworthy?”
Fascinated, I felt he might call
me “Mr. High” at any
moment.
The. salient features were
explained to me as we went
along. This, said my guides,
is where the top men of 20th
Century Fox meet for their
luxurious luncheon, the very
place where Warner Bros.,
Jack and Harry, reduce their
top men to pulp with their
comic cross-talk.
I sat at a modest repast with
about a dozen austere and pre-
occupied shadows. I saw
no Bacchanalian debaucheries.
Rather was I impressed by
signs of apprehension concern-
ing the Johnson Office. I
detected in the conversation
an exaggerated striving after
convent ion a 1 respectability.
There must be no whisper
WHEN I visited Cecil B.
de Mille I found him
surrounded in a picture-gallery
of designs for one of his Old
Testament epics, worrying out
bosom - covering “improve-
ments” to the costume of
Minoan females, to square with
the Johnson Office’s prejudice
against “cleavage”; and at
another studio with an invest-
ment of nine-million dollars in
an epic “Joan of Arc” I found
consternation brought about by
some influential columnist
having said their Joan had sex-
appeal, as was proved by the
fact that she had to wear
armor when doing business
with priests and courtiers.
circumstances did not
seem propitious for ques-
tionings as to the moral
responsibilities of the film-
industry. Had I expected to
illuminate the point Should the
Public Have What it Wants or
What is Good for it? I was
disappointed.
The evidence accumulated
from somewhat confused con-
versation with eight chief
executives, six producers and
three directors left me feeling
that the problem, of raising
cultural standards is one that
must be solved by persuasion
rather than by force. As Joe
Schenck said, coming to the
heart of the matter, “You must
please sixteen millions or it's
no good.”
I could not leave Hollywood
without doing the rounds of


the studios to see for myself
the people who divert my daily
leisure-hour at the cinema. I
met a great number of lovely
women and clever men. I noted
that the stars looked less
appetising eating their lunch
than on the screen ; and that
the glamor lies in the lens of
the camera ; and that it’s the
director who does the real job.
To an inveterate movie-fan
like myself it should have been
a delightful experience to hob-
nob with companies of my
dreams come alive. But I don’t
think I liked it. How could I
ever again take these beautiful
people seriously as thugs,
gangsters, adventuresses as
anything, in fact, but people?
I agreed with Hazlitt—actors
should never be seen out of
their frame.
AS a parting clasp to the
United States we went
to be dined by the National
Cartoonists Society. The
company, which numbered
about two hundred, was the
nearest thing to a trade-union
artists have ever had.
Although I did not quite sub-
scribe to the collective prin-
ciple applied to the arts, it was
a jolly evening, meeting the
well-known names. Mostly
comic-strip men. The hall was
hung with flags, seemingly of
all nations, Britain, even
Ethiopia, too.
“What’s this?” I said. “You
have some link with the United
Nations?”
“No,” said my host. “The
flags represent the places in
which we market our pro-
ducts.”
To) ACK in London my own
private affairs came to the
boil. Paper shortage had kept,
and seemed likely to keep, the
British newspapers scant of
space indefinitely. The “Even-
ing Standard” could no longer
afford the room for full-sized
political cartoons, and my past
had spoilt me for settling down
tamely to a life of making small
drawings that gave me no
pleasure.
Anyway I had been in one
place too long. Was I not the
young man who once vowed
he would never take root? Were
there not new facets of life?
I grew tired of security. I
yearned for another taste of the
struggle for existence, the spur
of uncertainty and the sweet
taste of surprise.
The technical point decided
the issue. No more would I
work for one paper alone. I
would arrange a home base,
expand my foreign connections
and take on “special” jobs
abroad. A foreign newspaper
had just described me as having
become a British institution
like the Nelson .Column or Guy
Fawkes, which seemed to me
not quite the right idea. I
wanted to be universal. I
would cut out the local trivia
and adopt the supra-national
viewpoint of a citizen of the
world.
In this elevated mood I went
home and sacked myself from
the “Evening Standard.”
The consequences were
interesting. My business
friends concluded I had been
offered more money. My
political friends concluded I
must be after more power.
Stoopids who had always
thought of me as one of
rich Beaverbrook’s leg-men
assumed that I must have lost
favor and been banished, and
they fell away overnight.
Beaverbrook, from Jamaica:
Dec. 9, 1949.
Black Friday.
My Dear Dow,
Your letter is an unwelcome
message.
I always look over my letters
liere before opening them myself,
for I have no Secy, or Typist.
Then I select the pleasant-looking
lot and read them. The rest I put
off until after lunch.
Your letter was in the first batch
because I expected to hear that
you wished me well for Christinas
or that you and Mrs. Low would
visit Jamaica or that you hail
changed your mind about
Churchill. Instead I got the worst
letter first. That’s the way life
has treated me far too often.
Your decision is a disaster. It is
unnecessary and inadvisable.
That’s what I think of it....
Don’t forget your old friend.
Yours ever,
i BEAVERBROOK.
/TUREEN fields and pastures
new. To start with, a new
association with my old friend
Percy Cudlipp seemed to hold
agreeably difficult possibilities.
Percy, who was now editor of
the “Daily Herald,” the mouth-
piece of industrial and political
Labor, thought the same, and
this newspaper became my new
headquarters.
As to overseas fields, it was
fun to illustrate the serial-form
of Churchill’s memoirs in
America, to “do” Japan for4he
Tokyo “Shimbun,” and to
make cartoons for foreign
newspapers on faraway
great occasions.
But there were several mis-
calculations about my original
plan. My agents signed-up
250 newspapers in all parts of
the world, but the reproduction
methods of some of them were
primitive and made me squirm.
I had intended continuity of
publication for the cartoons,
but too many editors made
their own selection, and that
on entertainment value.
Then, again, too many news-
papers negated my universality
by giving my cartoons the
heading “A British Point of
View.” It seemed the hardest
thing to convince anyone that
in a “free” press in a “free”
world there could be a free
observer.
THE pattern of my private
life had changed, too. My
children married and departed
for the ends of the earth. I
remained, but still with the
same adored wife, in a flat on
the top of a tall building in the
heart of London, with an
excellent view if ever anyone
decides to drop a hydrogen-
bomb. Up here I have time to
think.
I started out to be a comic-
artist. Curiosity to find out
how the wheels went around
led me to the world of ideas
and I became a graphic
satirist. Circumstances made
me a political caricaturist.
There was a touch of the
inevitable about what followed.
A life of disputes, quarrels and
crises, in a world of infinitely
varied opportunity for expres-
sive draughtsmanship concern-
ing the hopes and fears of plain
men and women fear of
living, fear of dying, fear of
what was around the corner,
fear of what might happen,
fear of having an atom-bomb,
fear of not having an atom-
bomb.
The contrast of what-could-
be with what-is that is implied
in all good satire arises
naturally in such touchy
matters. It was fitting that they
should provide my material
and proper that I should oppose
shifts and evasions, cruelties
and stupidities where I found
them. It was equally to be
expected that I would receive
praise and dispraise according
to the passions and prejudices
of onlookers.
Coming from overseas, unin-
hibited by reverence for the
institutions and traditions of
the Old World, I had to be a
•nuisance, “irresponsible” to
those who understood
“responsibility” to mean
loyalty to their established
code ; and a whiteheaded boy
to those who saw gaping imper-
fections in the status quo and
Chafed at delay in their repair-
ing.
Fortunately for my happi-
ness, in the process-of-becom-
mg I had grown enough
self-confidence to be perfectly
sure that those who disagreed
with me were always wrong.
So I survived. e
And so at length I found
myself on a ringside seat at a
crisis of humanity, with a close
view of the champions engaged
and even a small towel to wave
in one of the corners.
IF happiness lies in doing
what one wants to do as well
as one can do it, mine has been
a happy life. Not being
troubled by a strong possessive
instinct or a lust for power, the
preservation of my secret
integrity was never any
problem to me. I could always
make enough money to live on
and there was no sensible
reason why I should betray
myself. I can take no pride
in affirming that my errors have
been due entirely to ignorance.
Although I alone (and I only
imperfectly) could know by
how much I succeeded or failed
to become either the kind of
artist or the kind of satirist, or
even the kind of man, 1 wanted
to be, it was obviously a
stimulus to be living and work-
ing during one of the most
inspiring ancf agonising epochs
of history.
If I were asked whether I
would rather have had my life
in any other period of time, I
should say “No, it has been
good to live at a turning-point.”
But if I were asked whether I
would live it over again, I
should say “No. I've done that
bit Give me the few human
relationships without which I
cannot imagine myself having
any existence, and put me
somewhere else. But let it be
where things are on the move
—and let me be able to draw.”
The End


A Different Vance Palmer
Professor Allan Edwards in a fore-
word to his selection of Vance Palmer’s
stories in The Rainbow-bird (Angus
and Robertson) admirably searches out
and displays for us most of the
qualities to be found in them.
There is Palmer’s “easy command
of Australian speech” and keen ear
for its phrases and rhythms. There
is—more doubtfully, but still with an
element of truth —his ability to “tell
a good stoiy in the authentic manner
of the outback storyteller like
Lawson and Dyson.” There is the
contrast with Lawson, that Palmer is
“more thoughtful, more deliberate,
composing in the studio with skilful
craftsmanship.”
There is his wide range of Aus-
tralian subject-matter. There is his
tendency towards the sociological
approach, which Professor Edwards
skims over rather briefly as his
“sympathy with the plight of the out-
sider”; and, in the summing-up:—
Quiet, unassertive, unemphatic,
avoiding the passion, the drama, the
gestures, the attitudes and the
rhetoric of more highly-colored
writers, he impresses us by his
sensitive and percipient understand-
ing of ordinary, unaffected, yet
profoundly human people.
It is, most readers would agree, a
very fair summary of the general effect
of Vance Palmer’s stories. But one
has a notion that Professor Edwards
arrived at it after a consideration,
necessary for the present book, of the
whole of Palmer’s work; and the odd
thing about this excellent selection is
that it leads one to a very different
view of Palmer: that when he is at his
best he is not an outback yarn-spinner,
not sociological, not very much con-
cerned with the understanding of
ordinary people but profoundly con-
cerned with only one thing: his own
personal vision of beauty, of the frail,
ephemeral but infinitely rewarding
grace of life. And when he writes
about that he is assertive, emphatic,
passionate and dramatic. Look, for
instance, at his. first glimpse of
“Mathieson’s Wife,” * dropping down
upon him “out of a cloud”: —
How well I remember that morn-
ing when the fair-haired young
woman who had come to live with
old Mathieson made my heart jump
by dropping from the mulberry-
tree to the grass beside me! A
rustle of the branches, a soft plop—
and there she was as if she had fallen
right out of a cloud. I stumbled
back a pace or two and the billy of
milk I was holding nearly slipped
from my hand. It was partly the
shock, partly the look of her as she
stood laughing down at me, her
blue eyes dancing and the mulberry-
stains red on her lips. The blood
crept up my neck, and I tried to
stutter out something, but my voice
lost itself in the furry depths of
my throat.
* This is hardly “unemphatic”; it is
sensuous and lyrical. Of course it
could still be said that Mrs. Mathie-
son shows Vance Palmer’s interest in
ordinary people; and that would be
partly true. But it is also true that she
is a symbol of that all-but-unattainable
loveliness which it is his chief concern
to celebrate and which he symbolises
again, with equal if less sensuous
intensity, in “The Foal”: —
And then again the queer whinny!
She sat up in bed, a flicker at her
heart, staring out through the fly-
netting. Near the woodheap she
could see the thick form of Dozy,
standing quite still and looking
enormous against the rising ground
in the dim light, her winter coat
puffed out with cold. Her head was
sunk low, her heavy forelock had
fallen over her eyes, she seemed
rooted in the waxy earth. But
round her flickered something
wavery and uncertain, a small,
glimmering shape like her shadow in
water, and from it came a light
whickering. Fully awake now, the
little girl sprang out of bed....
“Dad! Dad! Come and see, Dad!
Dozy’s got a foal.”
Professor Edwards does, of course,
touch on this poetic, this visionary
element in Vance Palmer’s writing. He
says—not quite correctly, for we do
not think of a poetic little girl so much
as of a poetic Vance Palmer—
“ Ordinary Australians are not angels,
nor yet poets and philosophers, but
Palmer knows that they are often more
angelic than they admit to being, and
have more poetiy and philosophy in
them than they would willingly confess
to”; and, going right to the crux of
the matter, he says:—
He is strongly drawn to those
who from time to time come to a
halt in their routine tasks, pulled up
sharp perhaps by a flash of a
rain bow-bird’s wings . .
But the little girl who sees the
rainbow-bird is not exactly halted by
it in the midst of her routine tasks; as
an individual she hardly exists—it is
the image of beauty that counts; and
perhaps a better way of expressing the
idea would be to say that Palmer him-
self is fascinated by those moments in
life when he has perceived the flash
of a rainbow-bird’s wings.
It is astonishing how often in “The
Rainbow-bird” he presents, in one dis-
guise or another, this single theme of
vanishing loveliness. It is in the title-
story; it is probably the theme he was
groping for in “The Little Duck,”
where the poetic identification of bird
and woman becomes lost in a rather
flat back-to-the-bush conclusion; it is
possibly what he was after in two other
uncertain stories, “Tobacco,” with its
glimpse of masculine triumph, and
“Travelling,” with the poetry of the
wild outback in the cook’s refrain of
“We’re' the blokes that brought down
the Rainey River cattle”; it is clear
again in “The Foal” and in “The
Branscombe Sisters” (which is a more
prosaic version of “Mathieson’s Wife”);
it is implicit in the contrast between
the real and the angelic small girl in
“Josie”; it is particularly clear and
strong in “Mathieson’s Wife”—“But
for a long time I dreamed of her quite
often, and gradually without bitterness,
as a radiant figure in the far sky”; and
if it seems altogether absent from
“Jettisoned,” one of the best of the
stories, the peculiar effectiveness of this
portrait of an “outsider” is precisely
because Slug Corkery represents the
opposite of Palmer’s vision ... a nasty
fellow who, when he sets fire to his
hidden stack of timber, bums not only
mateship but the whole beauty of the
world; a lost soul if ever there was
one.
Each reader, no doubt, will find his
own favorite amongst these stories of
lost or elusive delight. This reviewer
inclines to “The Foal” as the surest
and clearest affirmation of life—•
Palmer does not have to slay the foal
to make a poetic symbol of it, as he
has to shoot the rainbow-bird and lose
the Branscombe sisters: it stays alive
and warm, attainable beauty, “as if it
was the one thing fully alive on the
whole earth.” But for richness and
variety “Mathieson’s Wife” has a very
strong claim; as also, for a powerful
contrast, has “Jettisoned.”
DEATH OF THE MONSTER
The beast they lopped down at the knees
Under the high and Gothic trees
Dropped forward on his broken face
Among their early obsequies
Who mocked him for his recent rage.
They felt his death might then assuage
All their communal pangs of guilt
And lugged his body in a cage
Slowly into the market-place,
Where every pallid cardboard face
Saw his fate as remedy
For inward stirrings of disgrace.
They stormed the dais where he was
shown
And pelted him with peel and stone,
Hating their captive image there;
Then, of a sudden, with a groan,
He rose up unexpectedly
Upon two bloody stumps of knee,
Gathered his wits and then expressed
Himself in measured poetry.
VICTORIA.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE.


Two delightful and entertaining new novels just arrived
THE EYE OF LOVE
Margery Sharp
OFF WITH HIS HEAD
Ngaio Marsh
From all
Booksellers
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
Ready
Now
FREDDY LONSDALE
Frances Donaldson
The biography of the extraordinary man who wrote “The
Maid of the Mountains,” “The Last of Mrs. Cheyney,” etc.
At all booksellers - - 26/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
LATEST AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
THE RAINBOW-BIRD and Other
Stories by Vance Palmer,
selected by Allan Edwards. The author’s
simplicity, tenderness, humanity and sense
on form are shown in each of his stories.
“Together they give a satisfying picture of
Vance Palmer’s range, ability and unob-
trusive power.” (Sydney Morning Herald.)
13/0 (post 3d.)
HISTORY TRAILS IN MELBOURNE
by W. Lloyd Williams, who has chosen ten
streets or street corners and toid the story
of each, as it was a hundred years or more
ago. The stories are based on early news-
paper paragraphs or accounts given by
citizens or visitors who knew Melbourne
in those early years. Illustrated.
15/- (post 5d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD..
89-9 B Cnstlereaffh Street, Sydney. Tel.; B 0363.
60-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. C.l. Tel.: MF 6163
Awards and Prizes
The International Theatre Institute
has offered a fellowship valued at
$409 to assist a member of the
theatrical profession in Australia
(author, actor, producer, stage-
designer, etc.) to visit a country of his
choice this year and to stay there for
a while “in order to further his pro-
fessional knowledge by contact with the
theatre of that country.”
Candidates should apply for details
to the Secretary, Australian National
Advisory .Committee for Unesco. Box
3879, G.P.0., Sydney. The closing
date for applications is April 26, 1957.
This year’s Sydney Journalists’ Club
Award of £730 is offered for the best
short-story of ud to 3000 words (£2OO
prize) and the best poem up to 500
lines (£lOO prbe). The competition
will close on September 30. Derails
from the Manager. the Journalists’
Club, 166 Phillip-street, Sydney.
Too True Love
Fabers have republished 'Helen
Thomas’s two little chronicles that
shocked the ’twenties. As It Was and
World Without End in one volume, her
monument to her essayist-poet husband
Edward, killed in World War I.
“As It Was” is the story of her
gradual seduction, she a well-brought-
up young girl, he a tall serious young
student with the best intentions, during
visit after visit to the English country-
side. It is a beautiful story, beautifully
told; and when she is going to have
a baby he marries her, and the piece
ends with the birth of the baby. A
familiar enough story to present-day
readers, it was considered unsuitable
in the ’twenties for a married woman to
tell as autobiography—as maybe it
would even today.
“World Without End” continues the
marriage. The young student develops
into a literary gent, so anxious to shine
that he refuses his father’s offer to get
him well placed in the British Civil
Service, and lives, as so often happens
with people seeking the free life, a
slave to hack-work and occasionally-
accepted essays—in short, he hasn’t
quite got what it takes.
He contracts black moods and goes
out into the dark with a loaded
revolver, leaving his wife to wonder
if he will ever come back again. They
live in pretty but insanitary country
and village houses, from hand to mouth
and in debt. He goes to London or
Oxford to see people or get material
for his commissioned books, and a
beautiful girl hiker friend of his comes
to visit them and there is an extra-
ordinary nocturne of the wife’s realisa-
tion that the girl loves him, accentuated
by her husband’s telling her in front
of the girl that he is sick of her (the
wife) and the children. They all go
out to hear the nightingale; the women
kiss, and the wife makes her husband
kiss the girl—probably they didn’t like
that in the 1920’s either.
Reviewed Briefly
- A Pictorial History of American
Literature: Van Wyck Brooks and
Otto Bettmann (Dent). The surprising
thing about this attempt to present
literary history and criticism in a
popular potted form is how very
respectable an attempt has been made.
It is quite impossible to resist the lure
of the photographs—from Walt Whit-
man to Ezra Pound and E. E. Cum-
mings; the illustrations from books
have their own interest; and the text,
if enthusiastic, does not lack proper
critical balance. It would make an
admirable gift-book for the intelligent
young reader, but its appeal is by no
means restricted to a juvenile audience.
Michael Redgrave, Actor: Richard
Findlater (Heinemann). Familiar to
Australians only through the films,
Michael Redgrave had at least the
courtesy to be baptised in this country
—at Melbourne, where his father,
“Roy” Redgrave, was playing one of
his romantic heroes. Roy remained
here for some years, but Michael, with
his mother, returned to England at the
age of three. At eight he was writing
plays in which J. M. Barrie and the
critic of the “Pink ’Un” saw promise.
Mr. Findlater describes his dis-
tinguished career in appropriately
distinguished prose; performing, by
quoting adverse press-criticisms and
making some of his own, the rare feat
of giving the highest praise without
being fulsome. He is particularly
interesting on Redgrave’s controversial
Hamlet —which at least steered clear
of the CEdipus-complex —and on his
triumphant Antony at Stratford in
1953.


: uoifnqujsiQ
iiss*s|f}a] way
howm 'H 3ufio ] 'ojpojl 'pawdsnbj 6siia®p ijijd] 'jopnjj, 'spiuj, "jh^
m
v ":
I
••••':
&r
a; . v’
mm
m
mm
>■ ‘J - v* 1
«
' >•■■
* S
S|
1
m
ADH3N3 JO UNO 3HI iOHI 1(3
ERG BATTERIES Pty. Ltd., 156 Goulbum St, Sydney.
KEEP BROS, and WOOD Ply. Ltd.-, 200 Latrobe St.,
Melbourne.
ERG BATTERIES Pty. Ltd., 32 Barry Parade, Brisbane
DAVID L. PRESCOTT, 91,95 Flinders St., Adelaide.
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, 14 Cameron St., Launceston.
