

mm»>
Straight draw
Bay gelding by Faux Tirage-Sunbride. Five years.
WINNER OF MELBOURNE CUP, 1957
Mr.
Owner :
E. NORTON.
Trainer :
J. M. MITCHELL.
Jockey:
N. McGROWDIE.
Weight: Bst. 51b. Time: 3 min. 24| sec.
/
gfllrfM'
6WEET OR DRY
/K
The Bulletin
Pearls Before a Tortoise—page 34
Wednesday, November 20, 1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


STORY WRITING
Learn how to write Stories
that sell
Stott’s Course in Short Story Writing will give
you a thorough foundation knowledge of how to
write marketable Short Stories.
Freelance Journalism
The Stott Course in Freelance Journalism gives a
thorough training in every branch of the subject.
tt XT it
These Stott Literary Courses present an outstand-
ing assemblage of knowledge gleaned from years
of experience by the best Professional writers.
The tuition imparted is the most practical that
has been prepared in Instructional form, and the
Stott method of training is the simplest ever
devised. Students testify to this.
Stotts Correspondence College
30<i luissell St., Melbourne; 149 CustlereaKh St.,
Sidney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli
tration, your Prospectus, and full particulars o!
your Literary Courses.
MY ftAME
AIiDKESS •
S.B. 2257 AGE .".","...
110*014 HUNTER, Box 2671. G.P.0... Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult ro
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fictiou,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
A SLIM YOLUME
There are some happy moments in
Sir William Slim’s Courage and Other
Broadcasts (Cassell) when the author
says “Long ago in the First World
War” or “Once from the safety of a
well-dug command-post,” and then you
get some soldiering reminiscence that
really makes you sit up and listen.
Illustrating moral and physical
courage, for instance, there are the two
V.C.s: the nervous officer in World
War I who kept waking the author up
to see if he had been overrun by the
enemy and then “a few days later won
the V.C. by a superb example of leader-
ship and courage”; and the young
Gurkha in World War II who, shot in
the hand, the shoulder and the leg,
walked in the open to within thirty
yards of the Japanese tanks, because
that was the range at which he was
sure he could hit them with his Piat.
There is the most rewarding story of
Sir William, as a young subaltern,
ordered by his colonel to salute the
R.S.M.’s cane (stuck in the ground) for
ten minutes because he had failed to
return a soldier’s salute properly. There
is the tremendous picture of the gun
in the African bush that kept firing,
five rounds per gun per minute,
throughout an aerial bombardment: —
The first stick of bombs fell
around the gun I was watching.
Some of its crew were hit. The dry
bush roared into flame, which spread
instantly to the camouflage-nets
over the gun. It vanished from my
sight in smoke and flame. Yet from
the very midst of that inferno, at the
exact intervals, came the flash and
thud of the gun firing. Five rounds
per gun per minute. Never a falter,
never a second out.
There is the anecdote of how he
moved the tables together in the mess-
room in India, trying to unite Hindu
and Moslem —next day the little gap
between them reappeared. There are
many vivid glimpses of the war in
Burma and a most interesting forecast,
grim but faintly reassuring, of all-out
nuclear war (“which God forbid”)
following somewhat the pattern of the
Burma campaign:—
Small formations had to act on
their own, find their own way, look
after themselves, infiltrate, outflank,
get behind and remain behind the
enemy—and not to fear being cut
off.. . .It will be only such tactics
that will enable land forces to
. function at all.
Mixed with these anecdotes are wise
and resolute words about “Liberty and
Discipline,” “The Australian Child,”
“The New Citizen,” “War Cemeteries,”
“Universities,” “The Press,” etc.:
subjects on which Sir William has
broadcast in England, America and
Australia. It says much for his forth-
rightness of mind and style that he can
make such public utterances both
interesting and stimulating; but the
anecdotes are really the thing.
" Brigalow "
The novel most like R. S. Porteous’s
Brigalow (Angus .and Robertson) in
recent Australia)! writing was Tom
Ronan’s “Moleskin Midas”; and if the
two are put together they make a
curious contrast.
Ronan, telling the story of a mean
cur who made a fortune out of cattle,
was out to debunk the outback. Raw-
ness, harshness, cruelty, avarice, theft,
cowardice, crude fighting and feuding,
crude drinking, crude sex, drought,
flies and desolation—nothing was
spared and everything was emphasised
and overemphasised to make a
devastating exposure. He wrote out of
a passionate indignation which, if a
bitter dose of medicine, gave a, force
to his novel which has rightly led some
reviewers to value it as a lesser
“Capricornia.”
Porteous, telling how Bob Anders,
his narrator, pulled together a cattle-
station that was falling to pieces
through neglect and inefficiency, is out
—you could not say to glamorise the
outback but at least to appreciate it
with all the warmth of nostalgic
memories and the conviction of its
value as a way of life. There are still
drought and flies and the ticks, the
stockmen still go on sprees, and their
love-affairs, though mild compared
with those of Ronan’s stockmen, are,
until Anders gets married at the end,
not exactly respectable. There are still
cattle-stealing, fighting and feuding; but
the emphasis is on pride of horseman-
ship, long days in the saddle and songs
and yarns round the campfire at night.
In Ronan’s novel the outback, to use
an appropriate cliche, is a hell on
earth; in “Brigalow” it is a kind of
tough paradise where youth is rewarded
by adventure.
Both novels have a touch of propa-
ganda; or at least a slant, a bias.
Renan is the social satirist or “realist,”
remorselessly determined to debunk.
Porteous takes his motto from Gordon,
“Oh. the hardest day never then
too hard,” and his outlook—if not from
his own experience on the land and at
sea—is from Conrad: men should be
satisfied with doing the job well for its
own sake. Both novels have an over-
riding sincerity that carries conviction.
Which of the two novels—to a
reader a thousand miles away—is on
the whole the more convincing?
It would be easy at once to say
“Brigalow”; for Ronan, even if it is
not quite fair to say he is debunking
the whole of the outback, when his
essential concern is to set down the
ruthless portrait of one miserly cattle-
man. obviously overemphasises the
squalor. But the answer is not
altogether so simple, for a novel must
depend ultimately on its pictures of
men; and. even though he dips his pen
in acid, Ronan. on the whole, draws
with a finer line than Porteous; he
searches more deeply for the essential
and ultimate truth. Porteous’s villain,
Albert Newton, the trusted permanent
hand who lets the station go to pieces,
is only lightly sketched-in; the station-
owner’s wife hardly exists; the station-
owner himself, though amusing and
thoroughly convincing, is not investi-
gated much beneath the surface:
whereas Ronan’s characters are just
about flayed alive.
But when allowances are made for
this—the different slant; the different
purpose; the difference in depth—
Porteous’s picture on the whole is still
far the more convincing. It is a matter
of balance. Whether it is in the land or
the people there is always room in
“Brigalow,” as there hardly is in
“Moleskin Midas,” for humor and for
the heroic. Even in the drought, to
take the most convenient illustration,
there is always Bike-handle Bertha:—
When the lagoon first became a
dangerous bog we had fenced it in
and moved the cattle to Number
Two Bore. We moved them every
day for a week and each time they
(Continued on page 58)


There are few industries not served by DAVID BROWN products
/
* s*.
W W v., J •.J
COMMONWEALTH RAILMYS
'
t;
- $
»' -r
DAVID BROWN
a« d the
Darwin -Larrimah Rail Service
Among the many products for which David Brown is famous, pride of place must go to gear
manufacture. David Brown gears are in demand for ships, factories and vehicles throughout the
world. The air-conditioned rail cars that operate a bi-weekly service from Darwin to Larrimah
incorporate transmission gear boxes manufactured and supplied by David Brown from the famous
Park Works at Huddersfield.
No less famous in their own field are the David Brown Tractors, whose rugged and dependable
performance in all conditions is matched by their unprecedented economy in operation. The range
includes eighteen wheeled and crawler models from 12 to 70 H.P. and over 60 matched implements.
You name the job—David Brown will do it.
COVENTRY GEAR DIVISION
COVENT Rr
D 818.107
NOJSIAia NII&VW NOis*
TRACTOR DIVISION
MELTHAM. +SOOERSFIELD
RADICON WORM REDUCERS
fURBINE GEAR UNITS
HELICAL SINGLE REDUCING OR INCREASING GEAR UNITS
Helical double or trifle reducing gear units ''
MARINE DRIVES
SURAL BEVEL UNITS
GtfTOMOBILt AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLE GEARBOXES
RAT ENT ED WORM GEARS
GEARS Of ALL TYPES
ROLOIO GEAR PUMPS
COVENTRY GEARED MOTORS
tCEIGHLEY STOCK SPUR GEARS
PROP tig GROUND HOBS AND GEAR GENERATING CUTTERS
PATENTED FLOATING REAMERS
LONDON GEAR DIVISION
LONDON
FOUNDRIES DIVISION .
PENISTONE. NEAR SHEFFIELD
AUTOMOBILE GEARBOX DIVISION
HUDOERSHEIO
GENERAL GEAR DIVISION
HUDDERSFIELD
TOOL- DIVISION
HUDDERSFIELD
THE DAVID BROWN GROUP OF COMPANIES
Garrison, mcgregor i guest
LTD.
LEIGH. LANCS.
JACKSON DIVISION
MANCHESTER .
GttlET GEAR DIVISION
WUODERSH€LD .
MACHINE TOOL DIVISION
MANCHESTER
TRACTOR OiviiiG*.
SCOTTISH .BRANCH'
ECHNBURGH
lagonda Division
PEITHA.Mr i
RADICON DIVISION .
HUODERSPI6LO .
JteS l FIXTURES
GEAR JESTING EQUIPMENT
HYDRAX PRODUCTION GEAR MOBBING MACHINE
SPUR AND HELICAL GEAR AND SPLINE MOBBING
MACHINES
GEAR SHAVING MACHINES
> RELIEVING LATHE
ALLOY And carbon STEEL CASTINGS
AIRCRAFT STEEL CASTINGS
AIRCRAFT QUALITY STEEL CASTINGS
PRECISION CASTINGS
TAURUS BRONZE CASTINGS
HEAVY DUTY GEARS
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL TRACTORS
fNDUSTRIAL AND MARINE ENGINES
FARMING IMPLEMENTS
ASTON MARTIN CARS
lAGONDA CARS
DAVID BROWN (A/ASIA) PTY. LIMITED
Cnr. Derby and Wetherill Streets, Lid com be, N.S.W.
Australian associate of the world-famous DAVID BROWN CROUP OF COMPANIES


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Nov. 20, 1957
Vol. 78—No. 4058
The National Australian Newspaper
* Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’ Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
A delaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
MOSCOW GAINS GROUND
THE Kremlin must be delighted with
its past six months of demoralisation
of Western public opinion. It is now
engaged on a full-scale campaign for
control of the world.
It succeeded in dividing the Western
world over the Suez crisis, thus
weakening it immensely and driving out
of the Middle East, in which it particu-
larly desired to operate, the only
Power with any real influence there,
apart from the influence of money
and force. It brought about a sudden
loss of face for Britain, the only real
stabilising Western influence, and
encouraged the United States in its
blundering paternalism at the expense
of the French and the United Kingdom.
Then it used the implications of
Washington’s deployment of the
Sixth Fleet to establish the idea of
American colonialism in volatile Arab
minds, and has ever since been setting
little nation against little nation in the
area with a view to breaking up the
Arab bloc, while at the same time
trying to intimidate Turkey with a view
to wrecking the Baghdad Pact and to
build up its own base in Syria, which
for all practical purposes it has taken
over.
In the Balkans it has been more than
busy against the background of
Hungary, whose atrocities it regards
as a salutary lesson to the other
restive satellites of Eastern Europe and
an indication to Turkey and Yugoslavia
of what might be expected to follow
if they incurred the wrath of Moscow.
Meanwhile, Western opinion having
been softened by a carefully prepared
attitude on the part of Peking and with
the help of miserable trade-union
delegations and gullible ‘'capitalist”
newspaper - correspondents of the
English-speaking press of the world,
Khrushchev and Mao have come
together again in implicit unity, their
old objectives unchanged, the old 1953
plan of world-revolution applied to
South-eastern Asia taken out of moth-
balls once more.
At present the partners are obviously
angling to draw India, Ceylon and
Burma directly into the fold of Com-
munism along with Indonesia, which
is in a satisfying condition from the
Kremlin viewpoint—under martial law
since March, press freedom, except that
of the Left (which supports Soekarno),
suppressed, and a steady pressure in
being to promote the final destruction
of Western influence through a cam-
paign for the annexation of West New
Guinea.
Those who are fomenting this move-
ment at a time when the Indonesian
Government has so much else to think
about are showing the cunning of rats.
It suits Soekarno to have it in being
to channel unrest into a compartment
in which he can promote unity and
divert agitation from local differences to
a national objective. And it suits the
Communists to have repeated in
Indonesia for the benefit of the Afro-
Asian bloc the atmosphere of Suez
last year.
In the South-east Asian sphere
Russia is rapidly Capitalising the
bankruptcy which is following in the
wake of the withdrawal of the British
and Dutch. Afghanistan, Burma, India
and Indonesia have all been the recipi-
ents of loans in the past two years,
apart from the money provided for
satellites to enable them—Czechoslo-
vakia in particular—to offer long-term
credits to countries wishing to buy arms
for war against the West.
The whole policy aims at the destruc-
tion of Nato and Seato by the paring-
off of one country after another and
then isolating the broken-off fractions
by involving them in quarrels with each
other and in economic tribulations
which will eventually drag them behind
the Iron Curtain,
The most dangerous feature of what
is going on is the readiness with which
the Western press and the Western
peoples respond to the Russian lead
and propagate the ideas which the
Russians wish to propagate. American
radio-stations accepted an obviously
malign-intentioned but suave personal
broadcast by Khrushchev—when it
suited him. It was a scoop and a
sensation, a coup which never could
have been operated in Russia, where
anybody attempting it would have been
shot; but it was distributed without
regard for its effect on world opinion.
The launching of the space-satellites
was achieved in just the atmosphere
the Kremlin wished.
There has been no organised and
generalised effort in the West to bring
it home to the average man and woman
that in Russia war and world-revolu-
tion are the primary national objectives
and that to the promotion of ultimate
decisive world-war of conquest by
Communism everything is subordinated.
There has been a hysterical campaign
directed involuntarily to the idea that
Russia has advanced in science, both
in quality and quantity, beyond the
West by reason of the dominating
genius of Communism; whereas
Russian science is a cuckoo science
built on the foundation of centuries of
Western progress and is a specialised
and destructive science only.
In the West science has been devoted
almost entirely to the growth of comfort
and leisure. Steam, gasoline, large-
scale land- and air-transport and
communication of every sort, modern
engineering, automation and elec-
tronics, are all in the West the servants
of improved conditions of living and
the promotion of happiness and leisure.
Defence is a subsidiary—a Cinderella
—objective entered on reluctantly in
civilised countries as a sordid necessity
to which the mass of the population
are bitterly reluctant to resort, pre-
ferring optimism as their shield and
stretching their imaginations to
persuade themselves that even the most
abusive enemies are human like them-
selves and ready to conciliate.
In Russia none of the official
scientific effort that is noticeable is
devoted to establishing what would
elsewhere be considered normal living
conditions. The average Russian, save
in a few showplaces, lives under condi-
tions reminiscent of Europe a century
ago. Few have their own houses—
they live cooped in family rooms; none
has control of their own destinies.
Modem comforts—and then on a
limited scale—are the rewards of
conformity and servility, and not the
right of every individual who can earn
them by hard work.
The main business of Russia is
world-conquest for Communism, as Mr,
Macmillan, the U.K. Prime Minister,
has pointed out, though his words have
been half-lost in the sentimental clamor
about the sputnik dog, and deprecated
by Mr. Aneurin Bevan and others of
his kind who still profess to believe,
in the face of the experiences of
Hungary and the wholesale murder and
repression which has taken place in
China and other Communist countries,
that the Russians are rather good
fellows, if a little ruthless, and that it
is the fault of Western Governments
that they are not our bosom-friends.
, The only stability in Western
countries at the moment is in the
English-speaking nations and a few
small but sturdy backers and allies like
the Scandinavians and the Dutch and
Belgians.
It is therefore something that at last,
if perhaps late, their Governments, at
any rate, are beginning to see the
absolute need for unified measures to
counter the Russian success with the
West’s own natural propaganda
machinery.


DROUGHT WEATHER


PLAIN ENGLISH
Defence Co-ordination
Attacks on ' the Government, and
particularly savage ones on Menzies,
P.M., in relation to defence by a Sydney
newspaper which seems to have revived
an old personal vendetta againsj the
Prime Minister, were followed during the
week by some constructive criticism by
Air-Vice-Marshal Bostock, M.P., which
follows on the lines of Bulletin
comment over a number of years and
puts a finger on the weakness of defence
organisation.
He did not support fully the charges
of the Sydney newspaper, some of which
were obviously far-fetched, and he
acknowledged, as any man of his experi-
ence would, the difficulties of a situation
of rapid change and competition both in
weapons and in the international
publicity of strategic bluff.
But he pointed to the weaknesses
which again and again have been dwelt
on in this paper—the primary one being
that there are four Service Ministers,
three of whom, if they are worth their
salt, must devote themselves to the thesis
that their own service should come first :
Each ohief-of-fctaff a<lvisies his own .
Minister, and each Minister presents to
Cabinet a conflicting view on vital matters
which affect the effectiveness of our fight-
ing forces. The Minister for Defence is
supposed to co-ordinate these. But he is
dependent, on the same chiefs-of-staff —the
Defence Committee —chaired by a civilian
who is expected to present the Civilian
picture to the co-ordinator, the Defence
Minister.
The speaker suggested—as he did as far
back as 1951 —as an urgent matter the
integration of the defence forces with a
single Minister responsible for military
advice to the Cabinet, on the system in
vogue in the United States and Canada ;
also the amalgamation of the four depart-
ments, which would undoubtedly save a
considerable amount of civilian staff now
employed. He suggested that there should
be one chief-of-staff, and that he alone
should channel- service views to the
Minister.
The Opposition naturally made capital
out of this speech, and Senator McKenna
said that, if the newspaper charges were
true, the Government was “disgraced and
dishonored and should resign.”
Nobody said a word in retort about
the disgrace and dishonor of the Labor
Government of 1941, which sept entirely
untrained troops to Malaya, some of
them not even capable of loading or firing
a rifle, or those landed in Java without
ammunition. It would be interesting to
know how many Australians went to their
deaths at that time through the incom-
petent ignorance of the Curtin Ministry,
the story of whose unbelievable
incapacity has yet to appear in any
official history.
Following Air-Vice-Marshal Bostock’s
speech, Mr. Menzies announced the
appointment of a committee headed by
Lieut.-General Sir Leslie Morshead,
formerly G.O.C. of the 2nd Australian
Army, with the president of the Public
Service Board, Sir William Dunk, the
secretary of the Defence Department, Mr.
Hicks, and the acting-secretary of the
Prime Minister’s Department, Mr. E, J.
Bunting, to review the organisation of
the defence group of departments.
It is a pity that the committee majority
did not consist of persons outside the
public service aryl the departments under;
criticism.
The Comintern Agam
Behind the scenes the Western commands
have been taking events inside the Iron
Curtain more seriously than has appeared
publicly. In Paris during the week
Admiral Jerauld Wright, Supreme Com-
mander in the Atlantic, warned a gather-
ing of members from 15 Nato nations of
the vast Soviet preparations for naval
warfare, including the building of the
greatest submarine fleet known to history,
designed to paralyse both Britain and
Europe. The long-range bombers of the
U.S. Strategic Bombing Command were
on the alert armed with H-bombs through-
out October, with a proportion of
machines in the air day and night.
The summoning of all the world
Communist-party leaders, including Mao,
to Moscow, had an ominous appearance
when linked with the huge military
displays whch advertised the Soviet
Union’s “peace - loving” policy on
November 7, the anniversary of the
Bolshevik revolution.
Not the least ground for fear lay in
the revival of fhe proposal to reform the
Comintern, which has been “dead” since
1943,- and which could be expected to
operate through its branches as a Russian
agent in every country opposed to the
Communist bloc, to weaken defence and
sabotage industry according to a
concerted plan.
Russia has been pushing this idea
since last February, though it has met
with a cold reception, particularly from
the Chinese, who are not anxious to
have a Russian spy-system legally estab-
lished in Peking. The Australian Com-
munist party, however, has made no
protest, and, as usual, can be expected to
be completely servile.
If any attempt is made in Australia to
re-establish the Comintern, which in
1940 transferred its headquarters from
Moscow to Vienna, from which it acted
in aid of Hitler so long as Stalin was in
alliance with his bloody partner, the
Federal Government should ban it. It
could only exist for treasonable purposes,
and, like the old Comintern, which denied
control by Moscow and then was
suddenly abolished by Moscow, every
overseas section meekly and promptly
accepting annihilation, it would be a
danger to the country and a threat to
industrial and other kinds of peace.
An organisation of this kind becomes
doubly dangerous when it represents a
Power which has built a vast submarine
fleet. It is quite bad enough under the
circumstances that the seamen and
wharflaborers of Australia are so blind
to the safety of their mates at sea that
they permit their affairs to be managed
by Communists, who (as shown at the
inquiry of the N.S.W. Industrial
Commission into Comrade Eddie
Thornton’s activities) take their
orders from the committee of the Com-
munist party. The C.P. as a Comintern
section would come directly under the
orders of Moscow —if it is not already
under Khrushchev's orders.
A Worm i* the Bud
When Tom Dougherty, general secretary
of the A.W.U., accepted the Labor
nomination for a vacancy in the N.S.W.
Legislative Council a short tirpe ago
someone inconsiderately asked him
whether this meant that he had changed
his mind about the abolition of that
Chamber. He replied that he was
accepting nomination with an open mind,
and that he would determine his course
of action when the time came. Last
week, when he made his maiden speech
as an M.L.C., he left his colleagues in
no doubt that he had come to bury the
Legislative Couuncil, not to praise it.
Dougherty criticised the Cahill Gov-
ernment —and its predecessor—for not
having carried out the plank of the
A.L.P. platform calling for abolition of
the Council. This, he said, had been
Labor platform since the 1890’s —and no
one had done anything about it. He
conveniently forgot that Jack Lang did
his best to wipe-out the Upper House by
swamping it, but was foiled through some
of his nominees valuing their new-found
privileges more than their promises.
While Dougherty professes to regard
the Council as a “restrictive House” and
speaks of “its rottenness cluttering up
democracy,” some of his fellow-Labor
M.L.C.s probably regard his attitude as
a little out of date. Labor has come a
long way since 1894. To the Labor men
of that day the Council was very much
a House of Privilege, presenting a
formidable barrier to their chances of
translating their political beliefs into
practical legislation. That can hardly be
said of the N.S.W. Legislative Council
today, when Labor has a clear majority
and is certain of retaining it for several
years irrespective 6f what may happen in
the Lower House.
It seems likely that the real reason why
the A.W.U. boss and those Labor men
who support him are raising the banner
of abolition is that they feel that
membership of Sydney's best club
has softened some of the trade-
union leaders who have been elevated to
it and that the militancy of their unions
has suffered accordingly. Perhaps it is
to guard himself against this insidious
influence that Dougherty, while accept-
ing the tenner-a-week “allowance” that
goes with the other perks of the job, has
asked his union to reduce his screw by a
similar amount. The dubious morality of
getting the taxpayer to subsidise the
A.W.U. to the tune of £5OO a year
apparently causes Tom’s conscience no
qualms.


Keep Off, by Order!
The Bulletin respectfully congratu-
lates Mr. Justice Pape, who so quickly
after his elevation to the Victorian
Supreme Court bench has condemned in
simple and lucid language the high-handed
attitude of the Taxation Department.
Without discussing the legal merits of
the case —nor are they considered here
—the judge said he was shocked by a
“pay-now” demand by the department
against a former bookmaker for £189,000
which the department alleges is due for
arrears of tax between 1940 and 1956.
It also horrified him that a man should
be forced to sell valuable assets at a
discount to provide money for tax which
may or may not ultimately be held to be
owing; and he also was critical of the
department in failing to send the book-
maker’s objection to the assessment to
the High Court, as he had requested,
because the department seemed, he said,
quicker at demanding money allegedly
due than assisting the taxpayer to have
his rights determined.
This income-tax power is, of course, a
deep inroad on civil liberty, and could
be used by a hostile officer, Minister or
Government to ruin a citizen ; and the
judge pointed out the pride the English
had taken in their hard-won personal
liberties, making this retrograde power so
shocking.
After his forthright remarks, the judge
thereupon stalemated the department by
exercising his discretionary power and
granting the taxpayer a stay of execution.
The decline of personal liberty has
been a sad and accelerating feature of
Australian life in recent years, and Mr.
Justice Pape’s comments are all the
more surprising and refreshing.
The courts —other than the police-
courts —do uphold personal liberty, but
simply as a matter of course ; and it is
suggested here that judges would be
upholding the British, rather than the
totalitarian, way if their judgments in
similar matters were enlivened by more
Warnings to overzealous officials in plain
words and phrases that newspaper-
reporters can make clear to the mass
reading-public.
Commonwealth Ships
[Front Canberra]
The disclosure that the Australian
National Line, controlled by the Aus-
tralian Coastal Shipping Commission,
made an operating profit of £1,139,296
(subject to tax, £492,304, and superannua-
tion £126,600) after a trading period
covering only four-and-a-half months
upset the critics who had been demand-
ing the sale of Commonwealth ships. The
result was excellent, though conditions,
especially away from the Australian coast,
are now becoming tougher.
The commission was appointed in 1956
to take over and manage the vessels
formerly under the control of the Aus-
tralian Shipping Board, and the transfer
of ownership of the fleet, comprising 41
ships with a total deadweight of
235,882 tons, began on January 1.
Since then the commission has sold
two vessels, and the fleet now comprises
25 steamships and 14 motorships.
The line enjoys no trading advantage ;
it is financed by public moneys, and must
pay company and other taxes. It must
also debit the same rate of depreciation
(£368,672 last year, with £300,000 for
surveys), and face the same sort of
problems as beset any Australian public
company engaged in the business of ship-
owning.
The coastal carriage of bulk cargoes
forms a main part of the business of the
line, but tramp voyages have been made
overseas.
Out of the operating profit it is pro-
posed to pay £433,064 to the Common-
wealth as a dividend of 6 per cent, on the
capital of the commission.
In seeking, like other lines, to compete
with inter-State road-hauliers, the com-
mission has found that in one Australian
port, at least, it costs as much to move
a motor body 50yds. across a wharf
as a road-haulier charges to carry the
same body 50 miles!
An Undesirable Import
At a time when the Australian National
Shipping Line is reporting a decline in
coastal shipping due to competition from
road- and rail-transport, the Red-con-
trolled Waterside Workers Federation is
indulging in tactics which can have no
effect other than to injure it further.
Healy’s Sydney mob have been staging
stopwork-meetings in protest against the
alleged victimisation of a man deregis-
tered by the Stevedoring Industry
Authority for drunkenness. Minister for
Labor Holt last week read the Reps, this
man’s record. Here it is in brief:
Registered on the waterfront in April,
1955. Within a month suspended and
warned about his working-record. In
August, 1955, fined £2 by the union. In
September dismissed for. being under the
influence of alcohol. Later given the benefit
of the doubt and reinstated. In January,
1956, suspended for drinking on the job.
April, 1956, suspended and given a final
warning because of his bad working-record.
Again fined by the union. October. 1957,
dismissed for being drunk on the job.
This “victim” is a Yugoslav named
Krespi, who came to Australia in 1949
and is not naturalised. Between August,
1952, and June, 1955, he Was in court on
several occasions on charges of larceny,
wilful damage, resisting arrest, indecent
language and assaulting a female.
On the occasion of his last dismissal he
returned to the wharf and alleged he had
been assaulted by two foremen. He then
so conducted himself that the police were
called and he was convicted in court next
morning.
This is the man on whose behalf the
W.W.F. is threatening a nationwide stop-
work meeting, although neither he nor
the Federation has lodged an appeal
against his deregistration. Holt observed
of Krespi, “He seems to be one of our
least desirable imports.” He also seems
to be an import we could very well
re-export.
“Our scientists are flat-out in the race for scientific superiority.”


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS”
TTNCLE doesn’t think much of the
bikini-girls on the Gold Coast. He
says his biggest thrill was his first mixed-
bathing party 40-odd years ago where
the women all wore neck-to-knee affairs.
“Heavens,” he says, “we thought we were
regular devils!” —“Noore.”
❖ ❖ *&
“Tom Trout” (London): Overhearing
two Lincolnshire fen-farmers in a village
boozer having a burry argument as to
whose “shout” it was so upset my previ-
ous assumption that this was a solely
Antipodean expression I resorted to the
experts. In The Australian Language
Sidney Baker merely records its
emergence “in gold-rush days,” while
the Shorter Oxford Dictionary indicts it
as Australian slang of 1859-vintage.
Funk and Wagnall, while admitting it as
Australian, also claims it as American
slang, which is denied by omission by the
Nebraska University professor who in
1934 published a Dictionary of American
Slang, and his precursor of 1889 who
compiled Americanisms Old and New.
Eric Partridge, in his Dictionary of
Slang, opines “Australian, hence New
Zealand.” I'm sorry now 1 didn’t ask
those fiatlands cockies where they got it
from. Perhaps it’s simply the influence
of those Aussie-set films now doing a
sputnik around the wide-screens of the
world.
❖ *:♦ *
“Pelga”: “Dolphin’s” story of the
Happy World in Singapore (B. 6/11/’57)
reminds me of my one and only visit to
its sister-dive the New World. The belle
of the taxi-dancers was a ravishing
creature ; one of her partners displeased
her ; she picked up a beer-bottle from a
nearby table and threw it at him while
they were still dancing. There was instant
pandemonium, not quelled until the
manager and his chuckers-out arrived.
And was the fascinating beauty chucked
out? No—but her partner was!
*t* ❖ ■*?<■
“Blanc”: Up-to-date! The secondary
pupils’ annual debate between Moss Vale
and Crookwell: “That Sputnik is more
important than Columbus.”
❖ . •&
“Apemantus”: The outside-broadcast
announcer had to fill-in an unprogrammed
two-minute silence at the pompous alder-
manic opening of a municipal utility.
Whispering gently into his hand-hidden
microphone he described the beauty of
the scene, the devotion of the crowd, the
dignity and solemnity of the ceremonial
“Coming clearer now ?”
until a harsher, higher whisper cut pasf
his right ear straight on to the air:
“Move over a bit, mate! I must get a
picture of this bloody schemozzle.”
♦J
“Tabba”: To qualify for a driver’s
licence while I was in South Oss you got
a list of questions and answers from the
police-station, studied it, then went back
to answer five questions picked from the
list. If you got them right you got a
licence. A New Australian bought a
small car in Adelaide and asked the sales-
man, “Show me the number-one gear
and I take her home.” He showed his
brand-new licence and drove off down
the Port Road in bottom gear ; the first
time he’d been behind the wheel of a
moving car!
❖ ♦>
“Orthos”: Northern Rivers (N.S.W.)
regional news: “A schoolboy got an
X-ray instead of his lunch yesterday ;
he swallowed a sixpence and was rushed
to hospital for X-ray ; but was allowed to
go home, as the doctors didn’t expect any
change.”
♦> *
“Swanee”: The most memorable fire
in our quiet village was when the big
grocery- and produce-store
was destroyed one night. We
hadn’t yet arrived at the
luxury of a fire-brigade ; a
hastily - organised bucket -
brigade drew water from
the few galvanised - iron
rainwater-tanks attached to
the neighboring shops. The
fire threatened the adjoining
cafe, and the proprietor’s
wife —a big, buxom, black-
haired Venus—appeared on
the scene in a flimsy night-
gown carrying a bucket of
water. Against her husband’s
frantic importunings she
mounted a pair of steps
standing in the passage
alongside the cafe and
hurled water at the blazing
rafters of the store. There
were loud and ringing
cheers from the spectators
when the incensed husband
seized another filled pail
and threw the contents over
his wife, drenching her com-
pletely and making the
nightgown a delightful trans-
parency. She cursed him
loud and long, but manned
the steps, oblivious of the
many “misdirected” buckets
of water that played upon
her, and stayed there until
assured that their cafe was
no longer in danger. “Ma,”
the rough diamond with the
heart of gold who owned the
pub in close proximity to
the burning store, went out
on her upstairs-veranda to
watch the progress of the
fire. In her excitement she
had a heart-seizure and died.
VIRTUOUS RESOLUTION
“Customs officials in Melbourne have seized
a Ford Thunderbird sports-car valued at more
than £3000.”
I think I'll join the Customs
And seize myself a car —
That way you get a good one
If you’re particular.
Or else Fit join the Council
And tow away a truck —
That way I’d get away with it
With any sort of luck.
For when I take them on my own
The cops get on my trail;
They call me a delinquent child
And put me into jail .
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


r T''HE changeover from beer-bottles
to beer-cans may have a lot of
merit (B. 6/11/’57), but I don’t know
what the effect will be on Australian
Diggers in the next stoush, if any. A
few weeks ago the Canadian Trade Com-
missioner, at a civic reception at Wanga-
ratta (Vic.), said that on a recent visit to
London he met a Scottish colleague who
took part in the 1914-18 scrap, to whom
he was extolling the good qualities of
the Australian Diggers, saying that when
his regiment was alongside the Aussies in
France if the blighters wanted to open a
bottle of beer they would simply take the
top off with their teeth. The Scotsman
replied that the C.T.C. must have come
in contact with some of the sissies in
the A.I.F. “Why, when I was in the
Black Watch alongside the Diggers,” he
said, “when they wanted to open a bottle
of beer they would simply pull out their
shirts and open it on their navels.” It’s
going to be more difficult with beer-cans.
-“Ex-Banker.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Baksac”: I’ve had to resign myself to
the gaudy colors and ridiculous garb
shamelessly flaunted by the modern
youthful male, but I still shudder at the
sight of the not-so-young following in
Junior’s footsteps. And it’s happening.
Grey heads and Honolulu shirts worn
outside the pants are no longer incom-
patible. And I flagrantly stared at the
middle-ager I saw sporting what I have
since established was a Sinatra-red
sweater, Guy Mitchell-blue pants and a
belt bearing legends that my amazed eyes
read as: “Hound Dog,” “Elvis,” “Tutti
Frutti,” etc. The only thing missing
that would have brought him right up-
to-date seemed to be a Bing Crosby bride.
*J» «£♦
“Pelga”: In an old book of bousehold-
hints I found a recipe for pomade: 1
Mutton-suet, beeswax, lard, and oil-of-
cloves. The factory-made preparations on
which so much money is spent today may
have equally noisome ingredients, but at
least they’re so well camouflaged that it’s
impossible to guess what variety of un-
pleasantness one is putting on one’s skin.
❖ ❖ *;♦ ,
“Sevenelms”: Sharing rural prejudice
against city-dwellers who dump garbage
on our rustic roadsides, our cop had
little to start on except that a large two-
tone American car was reported to have
dumped a boot-load of junk on Sunday
morning. In the best Sherlock H.
tradition he found in the debris two
theatre-ticket butts and with the co-opera-
tion of Russel] Street traced them as a
cheque-paid booking. So we were grati-
fied to see the two-tone car not only
bringing its owner to our court to be
fined but being reloaded at the scene of
the crime with its smelly freight.
❖ *X*
“Spin”: Typists and junior office-
workers in W.A. have been coming under
fire from managers, schoolteachers and
professors. Seems they can’t spell; and
it’s been suggested that the fault may be
rectified if the school leaving-age were
“Don't worry, honey—I've got your Wavelength .”
raised. I dunno. A letter I received the
other day contained “wittness,” “greatful”
and “plorsible” ; and it was written by a
bloak just finashin his furst year at
yewnivursity.
“Narumee”: The kids had done their
General Science homework—a sectional
diagram showing the parts of a flower
clearly labelled “Sepples,” or “Sepils,”
“Fetels,” or “Petils,” “Stammens,” or
“Stamins,” “Pistol,” or “Pistle,” and
“Oviary” (both), “Stile” (both), and
“Stigmer” (both). I told them the correct
spelling, and suggested they had better
alter the labels. They regarded me with
astonished scorn: “What for? We don’t
lose marks for spelling as long as we get
the names right! ”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sousa”: The Irish Guards, whose
band is now touring Australia, were
formed in 1902 at the wish of Victoria in
recognition of the services of Irish regi-
ments in the South African war. The
Queen didn’t live to see them, but the
blue plume of St. Patrick worn in their
bearskins commemorates the regard she
had for Ireland. Only the Welsh Guards,
formed in 1915 with the Prince of Wales
as Colonel-in-Chief, are younger. A
hundred years separate the youngest from
the oldest of the seven regiments of the
Household Brigade, the Grenadier
Guards, of which our present Queen is
Colonel-in-Chief. The Grenadiers’ title
is a reward for their services at Waterloo
in 1815.
K*
“Archaen”: Helping to revise an
encyclopaedia the most surprising infor-
mation I picked up was the ease
with which a Doctorate in Divinity
from an American theological college can
be secured by the ministers of some
denominations, while in the Catholic,
Anglican and Presbyterian churches it
must be one of the hardest of all degrees
to secure. I interviewed one eminent
churchman on the subject, whose thesis
for the D.D. took all the spare time of
10 years to compile. When it was


finished, 50 copies of it were duplicated
and sent to as many theological colleges
for comment. Onl/ when all those
umpires had reported that it was un-
doubtedly an original and scholarly work
did he get his degree. One can excuse
the bitterness with which he commented:
“To judge by the ease with which some
people get those same letters after their
names when they go to America, they
must give them away at Sunday-school
picnics! ” The really good U.S. universi-
ties, such as Harvard, Princeton, Yale
and California, are now trying to do
something about it.
♦♦♦ *** *
“Pelham”Travelling home on our
bus we picked up a workman who had
been celebrating pay-night just enough to
make him oblivious of his fellow-
passengers. He removed a shoe, withdrew
from his pocket his pay-envelope, and
from it two crisp pound-notes. These
he folded and placed under his inner sole.
Then, carefully replacing his footwear,
he up and off the bus, leaving behind
him gales of laughter and many con-
jectures on what tale he would tell the
missus.
»!♦
“Maitri”: I attended a wedding-service
recently where the bride’s favorite hymn
was sung; it’s the first time I’ve noticed
its aptness to the marriage-rite: “Abide
With Me.”
♦♦♦ *> ♦>
“Bo”: A more frustrating place than
a doctor’s reception-room I’d like to
know. You select a comparatively
late-model mag. —say, a 1949 “New
Yorker.” Just when you’re about half-
way through a gripping short story the
receptionist appears with the summons
to enter. With her eye on you you can’t
very well reef the page out; you’d look
a fool coming back after the consulta-
tion and finishing it; it will be lost
for ever if you don’t do something
drastic ; so you slip the mag. under the
bottom of the pack in case anyone else
pinches it and book up for an appoint-
ment for the following night on some
pretext or other. Doctors should be
compelled by the B.M.A. to run lending-
libraries in conjunction with their
practices.
“Tauvu”: My daughter has a new
swim-suit. It’s a very good one from a
practical as well as an ornamental point
of view ; nevertheless it was reassuring
to read on the maker’s printed ticket
attached that the garment is washable and
that “little or no ironing is necessary.”
<(i »:<
“Mullbong”: The pioneers of our
seaside village playfully called their
weekend-shacks Ittldo, Duzzus, Here-
weare and Thistledome. Hospitable new-
comers continued with Dodropin, Rest-
awile, Kuminsyde, Idleawile, Havarest
and Ynot. Dammit and Noah’s Ark
expressed the owners’ indignation at their
street, which floods in wet weather and
remains flooded for long periods.
Navillus might have stirred my long-
forgotten Via Latina had I not known
the owner to be an Irishman who had
reversed his monicker. Gnu Gnu stonkered
me. I thought the owner might have
been an African, a retired keeper from
Taronga Park or simply an animal-lover.
He scoffed at my surmises. “It’s the
place I came from, up Tamworth way,
Goonoo Goonoo.” Jack Lang on another
cottage causes some amusement from
passing strangers, but we initiated know
that the nameplate is worth hundreds of
votes for the shrewd councillor-owner at
election-times.
❖ * ❖
“Rosedale”: Sydney department-store
had a glamor-girl in the window advertis-
“Well, I got his number!”
ing an innerspring-mattress on which she
reclined in , pyjamas. She plugged its
slumberous qualities over a public-address
system ; inviting men passers-by to join
her, she called them by Christian-names,
hoping to hit on the right ones now and
then —which she did. Mate of mine" doing
a road job outside the shop-window has
never been allowed to forget it by his
workmates.
♦J*
“Tom Trout”: The young priest who
attempted conversational solace during
my internment in an Italian hospital,
though ignorant of English, knew enough
of our literature to deplore the wishing
of the Stratford bard’s quill into the
fingers of “Baconi.” But what really
shocked him was that the barbaric
countrymen of the world’s greatest play-
wright should demean his name to a
disyllabic “Sheksbeer,” while Italians
accord it the full polysyllabic euphony of
“Shah-kess-peh-ah-reh! ”
»Z*
“P.0.M.C.”: “C.P.R.” (B. 6/11/’57)
needn’t be too depressed that Melbourne
banks are ousting Melbourne pubs from
city streets, except that roller-skates or
scooters are becoming virtually a neces-
sity for pub-crawling. Licences aren’t
demolished with licensed premises but
transfer to new sites sometimes a few
miles instead of a few yards as the crow
flies from the G.P.O.
❖ ❖
“Doynest”: Latest in the way of self-
service in Melbourne is a clothing-store
where no sales-staff are employed: cus-
tomers are given baskets similar to those
used in the self-service
groceries, in which they
carry their selections to the
cash-wrap counters after,
if they wish, trying them
on. One drawback is the
difficulty of preventing pil-
fering. Although notices
displayed state “the man-
agement reserves the right
to inspect all packages
taken out of the store,”
checking over clothing worn
by a departing customer
presents a rather ticklish
problem. And how is the
woman customer going to
make up her mind without
someone to murmur,
“Madame looks exquisite
in that style”?
❖ ❖ *
“Backdrop”: The Nash
or National Amphitheatre
(about which information is
sought, B. 23/10/’57) was
also known as the National.
It stood where the Mayfair
Theatre is now. The old
Tivoli was close behind it.
In the days when New Zea-
land was known to all pros,
as “Fuller’s Earth,” so
many theatres there being
Fuller’s, the Nash, also Fuller’s, was
in its heyday, and “a bob’s-worth of
hangover” meant a good seat in the vast
amphitheatre. Amateur trials were a
popular weekly feature, the audience being
the sole judge. By World War 1 its
reputation was somewhat on the wane,
and because of the peanut-shells apt to be
found littering it, many a bygone patron
had another name for it—“that garbage-
bin ! ”
♦j*
“B. A. Ker”: It took a very stylishly-
dressed, good-looking young mother to
prove to me that a phrase I never quite
liked could be extremely apt. Her
strident voice vibrated the bils as she
upbraided her toddling offspring, stressing
the salient points with resounding
smacks. She rounded off with: “And
shut up that bawling or I’ll give you
something to howl about, you little ison of
a bitch.” Nobody disputed it.


“J.T.”: Letter from an Australian
friend who had just moved into his new
quarters in Pittsburgh (U.S.A.) tells roe he
applied to a telephone company for a
phone to be installed. The company
representative asked him C “Are you in
a hurry?” Remembering that when he
applied for a phone in Australia he had
been told he would have to wait three
years, my friend replied: “Yes, I am.”
“0.K.,” said the voice of the company,
“we’ll be out right away.” That was at
2 p.m. At 4 p.m. the same day the phone
had been installed and my friend was
making his first call.
«* * »*
“Raven”: On holiday at the coast, I
returned to dress after a swim, and in the
dressing-shed met a talkative lass. She
talked about the holidays and how awful
it was to go back to work ; then she
astonished me by remarking: “In a way,
I’ll be glad to go back. You see, I miss
my boy-friend. I read the romance-comics
and think of him—that’s all you can do.”
‘'Alf”: Can go one better than “Bicky”
(B. 6/11/’57). Earlier this year, one of
the typists in my office arrived with
green-mascara’d eyelashes! 1 was unwise
enough to remark that she looked as
though she was peeping through ferns.
* * *
“Roomy”: The small country-town
of Ampthill, England, having been pro-
vided with ultra-modern, concrete street-
lamps, indignant residents have un-
veiled a commemorative plaque on the
wall of a house. “These incongruous
“Competent enough , I grant you, but what does it signify—what
does it MEAN?”
lamp-posts, which detract from the
beauty*of this historic town, were erected
by the Urban District Council against
the advice of the Royal Fine Art Com-
mission.” Melbourne’s suburban councils
needn’t worry about being pilloried thus
—residents here would welcome any
lamp-posts, however hideous, that would
provide street -lighting as opposed to the
present token-glimmers.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“D.A.”: It appeared in the familiar
copperplate chalked on a Sydney foot-
path—the word “Eternity.” By next day
an additional letter in another hand had
been added, making it “MEternity.” The
morning after that the offending—and
cynical—addition had been carefully
rubbed out. *
❖ ♦♦♦ *l*
“Nedrium”: It’s all very well for
"F.0.M.C.” (B. 30/10/’57) to complain
about science extracting ingredients from
flour for profit while failing to produce
bread that keeps fresh for a day or two.
It’s a bit hard blaming science for flour-
millers. Besides, Britain’s “New Scien-
tist” reports that deep-frozen bread can,
under laboratory conditions, be kept for
as long as 12 weeks, but, it says,
bread frozen on a large scale doesn't look
terribly hopeful, as loaves are too cheap,
though frozen cakes are likely soon.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Orb”: Redecorated Park Street
(Sydney) cafe, with murals and every-
thing, is entitled in big letters across its
frontage, “The Spartan.”
❖
“Wusslean”: In 1951 a man who failed
to answer a charge of having played an
unlawful game was sentenced, in his
absence, to two months’ imprisonment.
A detective, formerly of the consorting-
squad at Victoria’s Russell Street head-
quarters, now stationed at Warrnambool
(Vic.), recognised the wanted man at the
Warrnambool showgrounds the other
day. He had last seen him at an agricul-
tural show at Horsham (Vic.) in 1949.
The frequenter of shows is now serving
his long-delayed sentence.
v »j*
“Jock”: Letter from a First A.I.F.
cobber visiting England tells me he’d
been round all the old London haunts;
could hardly recognise Horseferry Road
(A.I.F. H.Q.). He added: “I couldn’t see
the joint where we paid a bob a night for
a bed—and put a bed-post in each boot
to make sure it was there in the morning.”
Well, well! Horseferry Road (some
Diggers called it Cowpunt Road as a
diversion) was “home” to almost every
Digger who served in France. Wonder
what became of all the Jewish shop-
keepers who would repair an Aussie
tunic, or, better still, provide a new one
a I’officer, plus a pair of (unauthorised)
Fox puttees, at the flick of a Bradbury?
VALE!
“Sydney smallgoods interests report that the
saveloy is coming back into favor, exorbitant
prices having caused the demand for sea-foods,
the revellers’ traditional favorite, markedly to
shrink.”
He who had had a skinful once
Cared little how he splashed his bunce.
Outsize crustacean
He loved to drag upon a string
While homing from his roystering
Because libation
Seemed somehow not complete until
Strong armor’d yielded to his skill,
And of its flesh he’d had his fill —
A consummation
Which gave to him an extra glow.
Ah, me !
But that was quite some time ago.
Although the lobster,'prawn and cray
He’d subject, in his beery way,
To slow dissection,
Into his eye there often welled
A glistening tear, because he held
Them in affection.
With life and love they once had
throbbed,
Of both they had been foully robbed
For his delight. That’s why he sobbed
In deep dejection.
But economic facts are hard.
And now
Lobsters and such the drunk has barred.
But can the mystery-saveloy
Displace in gastronomic joy
Sea-viands delicious
Whose tough hides challenged him to
beat
Before he got through to the meat
So white, nutritious ?
A sav., in drab brown overcoat!
To such a thing could drunk devote
His post-beer soul ? A chance remote.
Although capricious
Het is! Nor could he with it weep.
Ah, well!
It has one virtue —it is cheap !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


POLITICAL POINTS
Those who accuse Menzies of Jslindly
following U.S. examples must be wonder-
ing why Eisenhower’s appointment of
Adlai Stevenson to an important post
hasn’t led Bob to send for Bert.
• •
References to the N. S. Wales Legisla-
tive Council as the world’s best club will
probably bring indignant protests from
members of other legislative chambers
who consider their own refuge more
worthy of the title. The term was
probably first applied to the House of
Commons.
Despite their undoubted privileges these
Parliamentary club?” suffer one dis-
ability ; they can’t blackball a prospective
member.
• •
Bolte’s mileage-tax on heavy transports
which the High Court by a four-to-three
majority held to be valid a short time ago
surmounted the final hurdle last week
when the Judicial Committee of the Privy
Council refused the road-transport organi-
sations leave to appeal.
• •
As a sequel to the upholding of the
validity of the Victorian transport legis-
lation other State Governments are rush-
ing ahead with plans for similar bills.
Cahill’s bill is already prepared and will
come before Parliament at an early date.
Like the Victorian Act it imposes a tax
of one-third of a penny a ton-mile on
goods carried by commercial vehicles with
a load-capacity of four tons or more.
Tax will be based on the tare weight of
jthe vehicle plus 40 per cent, of its load-
capacity.
Queensland has similar plans, and its
Transport Minister Chalk visited Mel-
bourne last week for talks with Vic.
Transport Minister Warner. South Aus-
tralia is also expected to fall in line.
An essential point of the High Court
decision on this tax is that it must not
discriminate against inter-State hauliers
and that the proceeds must be used for
the upkeep of roads. Any attempt to
use the money to bolster-up railway
revenue may expect an immediate
challenge.
• •
Every time Melbourne trammies hold a
stop-work meeting during business hours
they drive more car-owners permanently
off the trams. “Cars,” lamented Trans-
port Minister Warner, after last week’s
two-hour stoppage on nine routes, “cost
only fourpence a mile more, give door-to-
door travel, personal prestige and don’t
talk back.”
The trammies’ complaint is about early
broken rosters, but compensations are
provided in their award. It is depressing
to see men accelerating the decay of their
dying means of livelihood.
• •
Weipa mission-station, situated in the
heart of the bauxite-country soon to be
developed on Cape York Peninsula, is
not to be moved. The Presbyterian
Aboriginal Missions Committee has
accepted an offer by the Queensland
Government and Consolidated Zinc to
excise 60 acres from the mining lease for
an aboriginal reserve. The company
agrees to build a model village there at
a cost of £40,000 to £50,000 and the Gov-
ernment will build a trade school, provide
a teacher and offer scholarships right up
to university standard for promising
aboriginal children. In addition 3000
acres in the Spring Creek area, about 30
miles from Weipa, will be reserved for
pastoral purposes.
* •
Apart from losing the party one of its
most able and popular Ministers, the
death of Eddie Graham sets the N. S.
Wales Labor Government a couple of
awkward problems. Roger Nott, who has
been sworn-in temporarily as Minister
for Agriculture, will probably be con-
firmed in the job, but there’s likely to be
considerable competition—not entirely
friendly—for Nott’s Lands and Mines
post.
The by-election for the Wagga seat sets
Labor a problem it hasn’t had to face for
a long time. Graham’s personal popu-
larity in the district made the seat a safe
one for him —last year his majority was
3507—but on Federal figures any other
Labor candidate would have his work cut
out to hold it. Moreover, the D.L.P. has
been very active in the district and seems
almost certain to put up a candidate.
On the Opposition side, too, Wagga
presents a problem. Before Graham won
the seat in 1941 it had been held by a
Country-party man, Matthew Kilpatrick,
for many years. The Country-party con-
tested it in 1944 and 1947 and both the
Liberals and the Country-party ran can-
didates. in 1950 and 1953. On each "of
those two occasions the Liberal man
polled better than the C.P. candidate,
and in 1956 the field was left to the Libs.
In the present state of affairs on the
Opposition benches it seems likely that
both parties will try their luck in Wagga,
in which case the by-election will
probably be a four-cornered fight.
• •
A large number of Queenslanders hold-
ing land on perpetual lease will be given
the opportunity to convert to freehold
title as a result of a bill introduced by
Lands Minister Muller last week. The
change will not affect the vast pastoral
leasehold areas (which total about 350-
million acres); it concerns land held
under town-leases (up to half-an-acre),
suburban and industrial leases (up to five
acres) and country leases (up to 2560
acres). About 24,000 properties, involv-
ing a little under 7 million acres, are
affected.
Leaseholders will be given three months
to decide whether to convert ; unimproved
values will be decided by the Land
Court; terms will be granted for pay-
ment of purchase-price. '
• •
One sentence, at least, of Tom
Dougherty's attack on the N. S. Wales
Legislative Council is worth preserving—
“ All the members do is beat the air with
their tongues.” But with some members
that’s an exaggeration ; the tongues of one
or two of them haven’t given the air a
single beat for years.
• •
Seven months after his Cabinet
colleagues first expressed opposition to the
plan, N. S. Wales Housing Minister Landa
has been instructed by them to drop his
dream of a Minto satellite-town and to
unfreeze the nine square miles of dairy-
ing land earmarked for it.
Announcing the decision, Premier Cahill
said Cabinet had decided there was not
enough money available to carry on
ordinary home-construction and build the
sputnik town as well. He tried to soften
the blow by blaming the Federal Govern-
ment for lack of funds, but also pointed
out that it would cost £4} million to pro-
vide water and sewerage for Minto and
that such services already existed in
established centres to which industry
could well be attracted.
• •
Arthur Calwell, who is getting more
awful predictions printed in Melbourne
these days than the Doc. does in Sydney,
has come to light with the curious asser-
tion that the only motive behind the
Bankers’ Plot is to divide, weaken and
neutralise the Commonwealth Bank
because the Privy Council and High Court
decisions had ruled out any possibility
of nationalising the banks. Arthur isn’t
promising his party won’t try to
nationalise the banks ; he’s sighing and
turning the other cheek—while in
Opposition.
• • -
The necessity for properly addressing
mail is emphasised by the rather startling
fact that 2,856,000 articles were handled
by Dead Letter offices throughout Aus-
tralia during the year ended June 30, 1957.
One of the contributing reasons is failure
to indicate a return-address on the covers
of articles posted. When such articles are
undeliverable they must be forwarded
to the D.L.O. for treatment, involving
opening of the article, a search for the
sender’s address and the re-enveloping for
return, as well as double postal trans-
mission.
Postal officials say that a publicity-
campaign for clearer addressing of mail,
launched a year ago, has met with a fair
measure of success.


Calling all Fairfaxes! Last Saturday’s
“Sydney Morning Herald” reported that
“Crowd,” a Sydney sex-and-horror
weekly, had been banned in Queensland.
(The “Sydney Morning Herald” is an-
other Fairfax-controlled publication.)
• •
Cosgrove’s bill to legalise (and tax)
football-pools was thrown out by the
Tasmanian Legislative Council. In the
eyes of Labor this no doubt represents
another attempt by an anachronistic
Upper House to clog the wheels of pro-
gress.
• •
There’s to be a re-examination of the
new diesel-fuel tax. Under the original
plan users of diesel-fuel for purposes
other than transport on public roads were
to be exempt, but only such users whose
annual consumption exceeded 20,000
gallons were to be granted exemption-
certificates; users of smaller quantities
were to pay the tax and then claim a
rebate. . It is now anticipated that
exemption-certificates will be granted to
much smaller users.
• •
Replying to allegations that 5000 Hun-
garian refugees were roaming the country
in search of work, Senator Henty,
Minister for Customs, said that on Nov. 1
there were 290 Hungarians awaiting place-
ment in employment. Of that number
175 had been in Australia less than a
month and 61 less than two months. In
all, over 10,000 Hungarian refugees had
been accepted since the rising.
• •
Khrushchev, Evatt and Sharkey are now
so much at one in advocating peace by
negotiation on the basis of Russian good
faith —and American bad faith —that they
form almost a new set of Three Muske-
teers. Evatt’s latest cliches are (1) that a
lot of so-called “free” and democratic
nations are neither free nor democratic
—as a friend of Russia this shocks him
so much that he forgets to say that most
of them were his mainstay supporters
when he was a leading-light in U.N.; (2)
that it is a capitalist lie to' say that the
sputnik satellites constitute a warlike
threat. If that is so then the lie was
invented by Moscow, which has been
pointing-out their warlike implicafions for
months.
• •
As a sequel to the joint statement of
the Australian and Netherlands Govern-
ments on future co-operation in New
Guinea, a Dutch expert on New Guinea
administration will be stationed in Can-
berra. The idea is to speed-up co-opera-
tion between the two countries on New
Guinea affairs.
• •
Earle Page hasn’t dropped his old love
—New States. At the annual conference
of the Country party, which he chaired,
he suggested that the dangers of the
Atomic Age increased the necessity for
dispersal of population. He claimed the
optimum size for cities was between
50,000 and 250,000, within which limits
modern social amenities and economically
run industries could be maintained.
World experience, he said, indicated
60,000 to 100,000 square miles as the
optimum area for good administration of
a State. The four projected new States —
New England, North and Central Queens-
land and the Riverina —roughly con-
formed to this model.
• •
U.S. scientist Dr. Hynek, urging a
change of thinking on education, suggests
the use of scientific fairytales. The
suggestion seems rather a retrograde step.
For years the American papers have been
full of scientific fairytales. What is
needed is scientific facts.
• •
When a brewery sustains a loss, that’s
news. Grafton Brewery lost £82,000 last
year, and it attributes most of this to
the fact that the two big Sydney breweries,
through bulk-loading contracts with the
N. S. Wales railways, are able to under-
cut the local product on the N. S. Wales
north coast, with the result that publicans
have an incentive to “push” the sales of
Sydney beer as against Grafton beer.
Because of this-, the Grafton company
claims, it has been forced to deliver its
bulk beer free of all freight charges and
to reduce its wholesale price by 4d. a
gallon.
A spokesman for the railways main-
tains that the Sydney breweries get no
concessions that aren’t available to anyone
else contracting to take the full space jf
a truck, and that the Grafton brewery was
offered considerable concessions, but pre-
ferred to use road deliveries. To this the
chairman of the brewery replies that his
company has never been offered any con-
cessions ; and it does not seek any. It
merely asks that its competitors should
be given none.
From this complaint and as a result of
appeals from the Grafton Labor League,
a committee of the A.L.P. is asking the
State executive to put an end to the “tied-
house” system. It might as well ask for
the sputnik—or the moon itself.
• •
The oldest trick in the bag of the hire-
purchase salesman is to concentrate the
prospect’s thinking on the weekly pay-
ment, not on the total cost of the.item
to be sold. “It’ll cost you only 14s. 9d. a
week” is the line that clinches hundreds
of sales every day. Councillor Luke,
chairman of the Cumberland County
Council, is using the same technique to
“sell” his scheme for financing express-
ways by increasing car-registration fees
by £1 10s. He says he doesn’t think any-
one will object—“the increase will only
amount to l\d. a week.”
• •
TV entails big money in any language,
in the U.S. in the black and in Britain
and Australia in the red. According to
Sir Arthur Warner, a director of GTV9,
Melbourne, the four Australian television
companies have lost about £150,000 apiece
since they began operations.
When they began, the actuarial value
of a licence in Melbourne and Sydney
was £1 million. No doubt it is less now,
and probably will drop further before
any real money starts to be made in TV_-
broadcasting.
THE BARRAGE OF THE BOOKS


PERSONAL ITEMS
Charles Moihi Bennett, former C.O. of
the Maori Battalion, who was appointed
controller of New Zealand’s Maori Wel-
fare Division last year, is off to Oxford to
work for his Ph.D. under Professor Evans-
Pritchard, of the Institute of Anthro-
pology. A New Zealand report claims he
will be the first Maori to go to Oxford —
if so, this makes another “first” in the
family: his father, the late F. A. Bennett,
Bishop of Aotearoa, was the first Maori
bishop. Now 43, Bennett prepared the
recommendation for the posthumous V.C.
to Lieutenant Ngarimu, in whose memory
the scholarship was established.
•' •
Back from America, Olaf Ruhen
(B. 13/11/ ’57) dropped into The
Bulletin the other day. The first thing
the editor said was “Come and have
lunch with me.”
• •
John Alexander Barton, inspector for
Queensland of the Bank of New South
Wales, was born at Proserpine in 1908,
joined the Wales at Maryborough,
in 1924, and two years later transferred
to the inspector’s office, Brisbane. Ten
years later he was chief clerk
there, and after two years he went
to Cairns branch as accountant. While
in that job, with Arthur Lowndes, he
toured Northern Australia for the bank,
investigating conditions and prospects of
the pastoral industry. Southing to
Sydney, he was relieving accountant
there for a time, staff-inspector in
1948, and then was relieving inspector for
Victoria for a while in 1951. He was
appointed inspector for Queensland last
BANKER
year. In his younger days a Rugby
Union footballer, amateur wrestler,
and rower —he repped for Brisbane
in the Queensland eight-oar championship
—nowadays his main recreation is
gardening. He takes a keen interest in
public affairs, is a committeeman of the
Brisbane Chamber of Commerce and
Brisbane Development Association, and
is chairman of the Queensland branch of
Associated Banks. His father, another
John Barton, was a Bank of New South
Wales manager in various parts of
Queensland.
* •
From Professor Harvey Sutton: Clay-
ton Edginton Davis, passed away suddenly
at Yaleowinna station, Cooma (N.S.W.),
at 66, was born in Melbourne, a second-genera-
tion Australian and elder son of Arthur H. Davis,
a leading equity barrister. He took a first-class
in Classics in the senior public examinations in
1910, and went from Melbourne Grammar to
Trinity College, Melbourne University, winning
the Henry Berthon Scholarship. He completed
his Law course in 1915, graduating 8.A., LL.B.
with second-class honors, enlisted as a private on
April 24, 1915, and served in Egypt, France and
Belgium with the 29th Battalion, rising to the
rank of captain and winning the M.C. and
D.S.O. with a mention in dispatches.
He was three times wounded, twice seriously.
He was awarded the Military Cross for bravery
at Morlancourt. The Official War History
records that in the operations under General
Monash in August, 1918, Vativillers was won by
a brilliant piece of work. The officers of the
centre company had become casualties. Clayton
Davis, in command of the right company, had
been temporarily knocked-out by a bullet-wound
in the neck, but recovered to lead both com-
panies.
He was, I believe, recommended for the V.C.
Instead, he was given a D.S.O. —an unusually
high distinction for a lieutenant.
Soon after his return to civil life he set up as a
solicitor at Jerilderie (N.S.W.). When the Second
World War broke out he at once enlisted and was
appointed to the command of an engineer-train-
ing depot, with the rank of lieutenant-colonel.
Later he became C.O. of the 2/2nd Pioneer
Battalion, served with the battalion in Queens-
land, Morotai and Tarakan, and was evacuated
from Tarakan ill as the result of his strenuous
efforts.
He joined the Legal Service Bureau after War
11, and in 1947 was appointed to the responsible
position of Chairman of the Fifth War Pen-
sions Assessment Tribunal. His training and
experience and sympathetic character made him
an ideal chairman, and when he retired early in
1957 there was regret on all sides. Some while
before his retirement he had become interested in
station life, and it was there that his keenness
proved too much for his heart. The returned
Servicemen of Cooma accorded him a military
funeral. He was a fine gentleman and a
gallant soldier.
• •
About the last thing you’d expect at
10.30 on a Wednesday morning is to meet
a Tasmanian orchardist who has carefully
preserved a signed first-edition of James
Hebblethwaite’s Meadow and Bush (The
Bookfellow, Sydney, 1911: dedicated to
A. G. Stephens); but that is the sort of
thing that does occasionally happen at
The Bulletin office. Hebblethwaite, who
was a schoolteacher at the Friends’ School,
Hobart, and afterwards a Congrega-
tionalist, then a Church of England
minister, came here from Lancashire with
an introduction to Dr. H. Benjafield, who
DR. E. MORRIS MILLER, Professor
Emeritus of the Tasmanian University,
sketched in Sydney last week. As noted
on this page (B. 13/11/’57), he had been
attending a meeting of the Humanities
Research Council in Canberra.
himself had emigrated from Lancashire in
1872, The poet had a pointed beard and
whiskers “like Captain Kettle.” Eric
Benjafield, who brought the book in, is the
doctor’s son ; and has, besides his orchard
at Nubeena, a stream running through his
property where you can catch trout up to
four-pounds and at the mouth of which
they have been known to get four lorry-
loads of salmon (53 tons) in three hauls
of the net.
• •
Journalist Denis Warner, who has been
at Harvard (U.S.) as a Nieman Scholar,
is back in Australia. He’ll be guest-
speaker at the annual Thanksgiving Day
luncheon of the S.A. Australian-American
Association, in Adelaide Town Hall,
November 28.
• •
Edgar Hugh Graham, who died at
Wagga at 60 last week, had been N. S.
Wales Minister for Agriculture since
1944 —the longest term of any Minister
for Agriculture in Australia. He took
over an efficient department, and his pre-
decessor in office was a capable man: but,
with those allowances made, there can be
no doubt that he was an outstanding
Minister. Under him the department
extended its activities, a decentralisation
plan brought specialist services nearer to
the man-on-the-land, and* a vigorous
policy of publicity gave primary-
producers in N.S.W. a steady flow of
useful information.
He was born at Lake Albert, in the
Wagga district, worked on his father’s
farm when he left school, and opened a
butcher’s shop in Wagga when he was 20.
In 1932 he founded the Kinilibah stud-
pig farm —pigs from Kinilibah were sold


in every State and won prizes at Royal
shows —and he became well known as a
livestock judge, judging at Royals in
every State. In later years he raised fat-
lambs and Poll Herefords on his pro-
perty, Whyanawah, on the Murrumbidgee
near Wagga.
He went into Parliament with the swing
to Labor in 1941, but in his electorate —
Wagga—he always had a large personal
following. He was a very active Minister,
not only administratively, but in the
opening of country shows, field-days and
the like ; at these his manner was not so
much that of a politician, or even of a
Minister, but a practical land-man
among his peers. His practical bias
accounted, no doubt, for a good deal of
his popularity with farmers and graziers
of all shades of political opinion, and was
a healthy influence in administration.
* ®
James Saville Wiley, a 21-year-old med.
student who has temporarily switched to
science (a not uncommon procedure), has
been selected as N.S.W. Rhodes Scholar
for 1958. A former G.P.S. miler, he has
a Blue for athletics. He intends to read
for an honors B.A. in animal physiology
at Oxford, then complete his medical
course at Sydney.
• •
Few men give voluntary service in a
host of capacities as unstintingly as did
Sid Kennedy, passed on in Sydney at 60 ;
and all of it was squeezed-in between busi-
ness activities which, by themselves, would
test the ability of most men. Born at
Mudgee (N.S.W.), he came back from
War I when he was 22 and began building
in a small way in the Sydney suburb of
Eastwood, where he settled. Within 10
years he was well up the big-operator
ladder, founding with his partner the firm
of S. D. C. Kennedy and Bird, of which
he was managing-director. He was a past-
president of both the Builders’ Associa-
tion of N.S.W. and the Building Industry
Congress, a commissioner of the N.S.W.
Housing Commission, a councillor of the
Commonwealth Immigration Council,
employers’ rep. on the Commonwealth
Reconstruction Scheme, and a C.5.1.R.0.
councillor. His community service
included work for Rotary, the R.S.L. —of
which, among other things, he was hon.
building adviser; in fact, he had a hand
in practically every movement for the
betterment of returned Servicemen —and
he was a life-governor of Sydney Hospital.
• •
B.H.P. directors have invited Mariannus
Adrian Cuming to join the directorate,
and he has accepted., It is a hallmark
reserved for industrial leaders who are
distinguished in some way apart from
their business brains. He is a Melbourne
B.Sc. who studied in London at the
Imperial College, after he took his degree,
and later entered the family business.
Cuming Smith and Co., Ltd., of which
he is now chairman, was a recent popular
float as a public company; it has many
associated companies. He is also a
director of 1.C.1.A.N.Z., and, in
Melbourne, of A.M.P.
At least one member of the South
African goodwill mission to Australia
was no stranger to this country. This
was D. H. C. du Plessis, who has been
general-manager of the South African
Railways for the past five years. Ten
years ago he was in Perth as a member
of the Royal Commission which investi-
gated the working of the Westralian rail-
ways. The commission recommended the
setting-up of the three-man control which
the Westralian Government has just
scrapped to revert to administration by a
single commissioner.
• •
Persuading The Bulletin’s Sundry
Showman to provide a personal para-
graph about anyone is always a difficult
business, so it was rather surprising when
ACTOR
he suddenly announced: “You should
have something about Peter Aanensen.”
“Who’s he?”
“Actor in ‘The Multi-colored Umbrella’
at Sydney Royal.”
“What about him?”
“He’s good. Should have a future.”
“Yes, but personal details?”
“Victorian. A pharmacist. Been with
Melbourne Little Theatre two or three
years.”
“What’s he like?” ~
“Big; fair. Forceful and natural.
Makes you think of Henry V, Ned Kelly,
Falstaff, and a lot more.”
“Yes, but off the stage?”
“Nice bloke. Likes acting, beer and
Australian Rules.”
“Well, what about a paragraph about
him?”
“You’ve got it.”
• •
Queensland Rhodes Scholar for 1958
is Queensland University civil-engineering
student Thomas Baxter. At Oxford he
will concentrate on the structural side of
civil engineering. In 1953 he won a
Commonwealth Scholarship to the Uni-
versity. Baxter, five-eighth in the Uni-
versity’s Rugby Union XV, has played in
the centre for the Queensland State team.
• •
“Ailsey”: For the first time the Vic-
torian Police Force has appointed three
superintendents first-class. They are the
Chief of the Traffic Branch (Supt. Rupert
Arnold), the Chief of the C. 1.8. (Detective-
Supt. Hugh Clugston) and the Chief of
Melbourne District (Supt. Frank Simp-
son). The officers have the biggest and
most responsible jobs in the Victorian
force, apart from the Commissioner (Mr.
Porter).
• •
After 44 years in the tobacco industry,
chiefly manufacturing, Ernest J. Baster
is retiring (to Victoria’s country-
gentleman district, Mt. Macedon) as
sales-director of Philip Morris (Aust.l,
Ltd., although the board will still have his
advice as a director. He isn’t retiring from
cigarette-smoking; while the doctors
argue, he complacently smokes his two
large packets a day.
He has been associated with all the
big tobacco concerns —with Snyder and
Abrahams which became the public com-
pany G. G. Goode, Ltd., which merged
with Carreras, which sold out to W. D.
and H. O. Wills ; with Godfrey Phillips;
and, in the last few years, with Philip
Morris. He captained Victoria at
baseball 45 times and once led Australia.
• •
The man to summon Victorians to the
jury in future will be Henry Bride, new
Supreme Court Sheriff, who has been
affably arresting ships, absconders, reluc-
tant witnesses, cordially executing
warrants and commitments, and cheer-
fully providing a hangman on the court’s
order for 34 years as an officer of the
Crown Law Department in the sheriff's
office. If their appeal fails, one of his
first acts may be to provide a man to whip
O’Meally and Taylor, the gunmen, for
shooting a warder in an attempt to
escape. He used to be a keen bowler, but
now takes his sport in the stand, watching
cricket and football.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 74, W. R. Richardson, chair-
man since 1955 of Repco, Ltd. He began work
in his father’s engineering business, A. T.
Richardson and Sons (now incorporated in
Repco), and joined Repco in 1937.
In Perth, Eddie Thompson, league-footballer.
He was in the team which won Perth club's
first premiership (1907), and was in the 1908
W.A. carnival side.
In Melbourne, at 71, Maurice Boyce Duffy,
former secretary of Melbourne Trades Hall
Council and member (1930-45) of the Common-
wealth Bank Board.
In London, at 43, Alan Wood, Australian-
born author, lecturer and journalist. At the time
of his death he was a columnist on London
“News-Chronicle.”
In Melbourne, at 83, F. H. Lewis, one-time
jockey and (from 1904 to 1956) holder of a
V.R.C. trainer’s licence. A brother was former
top jockey “Bobby” Lewis.


ABORIGINALITIES
TN “Aboriginalities” (B. 30/10/’57)
•*- “8.A.K.” ascribes to James Tyson
what that well-known station-owning
oddity Scotty Macßean did. I wrote ot
him years ago, as he was a friend of
Father’s and we knew him well. It was he
who refused “tucker” without a return
of some kind —such as one man riding
on a gate, and another man swinging it
for an hour or more. -
It was through such a gate opened and
held still for us to drive through that we
more than once went to dinner at the
homestead.
Also, I have seen the grindstone* turned
for no purpose, and the man at the wood-
heap chopping logs to chips of a given
smallness —big chips were not allowed.
Sitting on an old moke, face to tail, I
also remember.
James Tyson had no oddities like this.
But one story William Lane used to tell:
When collecting for the ’9O-’9l strike he
asked Tyson, whom he knew and liked,
for a donation. Tyson gave him a cheque
for £5O, and told him that a certain Angli-
can clergyman had asked him for a
donation towards building a church:
Tyson also gave him a cheque for £5O,
and the recipient looked at it, and said:
“I expected you to give more than this,
Mr. Tyson.” Tyson put out his hand,
“Let me have it back,” he said, “and I
will alter it.” When he had the cheque he
tore it up. • He gave more generously to
those in need than people knew, but he
did not like the greedy or unthankful.
Tyson stayed at our place when I was
about fourteen. Father and Mother liked
him, and said half the stories about him,
as being mean, were not true. My own
recollection is of a simple, unaffected
man, who very much went his own way,
but was likeable.
MARY GILMORE.
“Kenyas”: It must have been a coin-
cidence : all the same it’s worthy of note
that early on the morning of a friend’s
birthday, Puss jumped on to her bed and
placed on the pillow a newly-slain mouse.
* * * *
“Harry L.” r From the tree above my
tent I could hear a whistle like that of a
kite-hawk, followed by a cat-call. It
turned out to be Spotty the bower-bird.
Earlier in the day I had made some
44cal. rifle-bullets and left them on a bag
near the fire. Shiny like newly minted
shillings, they were just the thing for his
playground. As I watched, Spotty came
down, took one and made off with it.
He got only about 10yds. and lost it. He
went into the tree again, but after a while
was back for another, and the same thing
happened. After the fourth try he made
it—at least he got out of sight with it.
He never attempted to pick up the bullets
he had lost. Always he came back for a
fresh one. Now, how is it he couldn’t
handle the bullet so well, seeing that his
favorite toy —the glass stopper from, a
sauce-bottle, which is a tricky shape—
gives him no trouble at all?
“Starter”: The Irongate Cheese Factory
on the Darling Downs (Q.) has closed
down after more than 40 years’ activity.
Its cheese won prizes all over the world,
and its manager, Moran Daly, was recog-
nised as one of the best men in the game.
The factory was named after the old
iron gate in the station-fence which
divided the hill-country from the plain on
Tyson’s run.
* * * *
“Erah”: Tell lan Healy (B. 30/10/’57)
that Wauchope admits of a number of
pronunciations. A New Zealand lass
coming to that N.S.W. town made it
“Wa-u-cho-pe,” which lent to it quite a
Maori flavor.
* * * *
“M’Lou”: - A man near Horsham
(Vic.) runs about 25 sheep on his 2\
acres. He also breeds bulldogs, which
have proved, with a spot of training, to
be surprisingly good at working and
mustering his miniature flock-
• K- * *
“Swanee”: Frantic preparations were
made at the last minute to provide water
for the cuppa to be given N.S.W. Educa-
tion Minister Heffron and official visitors
at the twenty-months-deferred opening of
the Umina Public School on October 25.
The rainwater-tanks had run out several
days before, and the 180 children had to
depend on buckets of water placed on
the veranda at the doors of the class-
room. They could drink from the mug
but there was no hand-washing. The
department was willing to provide a
spearpoint pump to tap the abundant
supply of underground water on which so
many of the residents depend, but the
shire health-officer objected on the
ground of possible pollution. In the
meantime the water is being drawn from
the pump of a neighbor, wogs or no
wogs.
• * * •
“J.J.A.”: I put a bee-box over a sawn-
off stump that held a bees-nest, and
'robbed it. Beginning at the bottom of
the stump-cavity, the bees built their
comb upwards, there being no support
on which to hang the comb except
the bee-box, which they didn’t enter. I
have read Edwardes’s The Lore of the
Honey Bee, in which the author, an
experienced bee-man, states that he had
not seen any deviation from the normal
suspension except in three instances, only
one of which he gave, where the bees
built upwards. Apparently my hive is
on this very rare construction. Can any
Aboliar report a similar case?
* * * •
“Ceg”: Talking of camels, has any-
body ever seen one walk backwards? I
know of only one in Australia that per-
formed the rare feat. Trained by a patient
young cowboy, it would take 17 steps
backwards, and nothing would induce it
to take more or less. It eventually became
a circus-act, but was not a success as
most people were unaware that they were
witnessing anything out of the ordinary.
* * * *
“Tabba”: We were down the paddock
on foot when Kilkenny, the Shorthorn
bull from next-door, loped towards us
from among our own quiet herd. The
nearest tree was far away, so I told the
young hand to stand perfectly still while
I took the bull’s attention with the whip.
Not that I felt too confident; Kilkenny
had one goring chalked up against him.
He stopped about 6ft. away and started
pawing and horning up the turf. After a
few ineffectual flicks of the whip I put
one just in front of his eyes. Kilkenny


IN LOW GEAR


moved back about a yard and started it
again. Cautiously I followed and repeated
the eye-treatment twice. Suddenly he
broke off and galloped back to the cows.
The hand had gone, too, when I turned to
speak to him. Later I told him he should
have stood still; that the movement might
have caused the bull to charge. “Well,”
said Bill, “when he put his head down 1
figured he’d be looking at the ground
and wouldn’t see me, so 1 shot through!”
* * * *
“Pip”: I have noticed that immediately
before the white-faced heron (or blue
crane) strikes at his prey—one has had a
whale of a time in my garden among the
jackie-lizards—his long neck takes on such
a shivering and a quivering that it appears
to be made of a system of very fine
springs. Whether he is trying to imitate
a harmless bough or reed shaken by wind,
or whether he is working black magic, I
wouldn’t know. But when at last his
beak streaks for the victim he never
misses.
* * * *
“H.R.M.”: Tradition decrees that a
new publican coming to Bogan Gate
(central N.S.W.) shall be accorded a
special welcome: a snake (it can be dead
or alive) parked in the cellar.
* * * *
“Dryblower”: I was in Kalgoorlie
about 1912 when the vanguard of rabbits
from the eastern States arrived after
having crossed the Nullarbor. I caught
quite a few of them, alive ; it was easy
on the wide goldfields flats to run bunny
down with a bike. Kept them in a cage
to please the kids, who had never before
seen a rabbit. And, believe it or not,
those rabbits, after generations of travail
crossing the waterless desert, had for-
gotten what water was, and had lost the
desire to drink. Water in their cages
would be ignored ; such moisture as they
required was obtained from succulent
roots ; in captivity radish and carrot took
the place of the small desert sand-yam on
which they undoubtedly had subsisted.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I’ve seen an abo.
start a fire by the twirling-stick method
(B. 16/10/’57). He used a short length
of spearwood—a species of tea-tree—and
spun it in a slight groove in a piece of
redgum, or marri, a greyish-colored wood
that smoulders well. Before starting he
ground a piece of bark almost to powder
and placed it in the groove as tinder, and
after a couple of minutes of twirling he
began to blow lightly at the thin wisp of
smoke. As soon as the tinder was
smouldering he transferred it to a heap of
kindling and blew until it flamed. The
natives in Ceylon do it easier. Using a
bow with a loose string they take the
string once around the stick, and, holding
it down with another piece of wood, move
the bow back and forth in a sawing
motion. In both cases the tinder seemed
to be the principal agent.
“Mrs. J.R.”: The tawny frogmouth,
resembling one of the dead twigs on
which he was perched, remained immobile
from daylight until midday. Back-
scratching from a cautious hand resulted
in nothing more* than the partial opening
of a bleary eye. To a swearing magpie,
two dive-bombing butcher-birds, and the
raucous insults of the currawongs he was
completely indifferent—and immovable
for hours. Then, as the midday whistle
blew, he flapped sluggishly into the thick
cover of a pine-tree and we saw him no
more. Other night-flyers become stupi-
fied when daylight overtakes them and .
will often remain crouched in the one
place until dusk. Is it true also of the
frogmouth?
„ + # #
“Macquarie”: Small-time builders
were hard men in the 1930’s—they had to
be to survive. And their varying degrees 1
of toughness earned for most of them
appropriate nicknames. “Rabbits” got
his through the stock alibi reeled off by
“Fifteen pounds of prawns — oh, and tell the Inspector not to forget to
come home early— We have a crowd coming to play baccarat .”
his wife when battling subcontractors
came around trying to extract money
due: Sorry, but he’d gone away rabbiting
for the weekend. “Sharp Pencil” always
encouraged healthy competition amongst
price-cutting travellers for builders’ hard-
ware by advising them ominously:
“You’ll want to keep a pretty sharp point
on that pencil, y’know.” “Ten Before”
derived from its bearer’s custom of calling
tenders for his brickwork, then scaring
each job-hungry tenderer into chopping
the price even lower with the grim infor-
mation: “The lowest’ll get it—and there’s
been ten before you." Another was
“Sund'y Mornin’ ” ; he came around the
corner, found his laborer standing still,
and sacked him. “And when the ’ell,”
roared the ex-employee, “am I s’posed
to get splinters out . . . Sund’y mornin’?”
“Maitri”: It was at the opera. Lohen-
grin had come down the river riding on
his swan and had met and married Elsa
on condition she never asked about his
name ; if she did, he’d have to leave her
for good. It was an impossible situation,
and the poor dope should have known
that no self-respecting woman would put
up with it. Inevitably Elsa asked, where-
upon, amid much pained, loud singing,
the swan drew up again at the quayside
and Lohengrin prepared to depart. But
he lingered too long over his last words,
and in the meantime something went
wrong with the mechanics ; as he turned
to -mount his feathery steed he saw the
bird already sailing off through the wings.
All on stage looked at one another with
a helpless what-do-I-do-now? sort of air,
till the house was brought down by a
stentorian voice from the gods: “Next
swan, five-fifteen!”
* * * *
*
“Ceg”: Mention of James Withnell,
pioneer of gold-discovery in the Roe-
bourne district of W.A. (B. 10/7/’57),
recalls an entry in Vol. 1 of the Weslra-
lian Historical Society’s journal. Dealing
with the departure of the Withnell family
from Fremantle in the early ’sixties in the
100-ton sailing-vessel Sea Ripple, it says
that they took with them, as well as a
miscellaneous collection of stores and pro-
visions, 1000 sheep, six cows, 10 draught-
horses, a saddle-horse and a Clydesdale
colt. It must have been as roomy aboard
the little craft as on a peak-hour city
tram.
* * * *
“Diddillibah”: Between Cairns and
Mossman (Q.) the narrow road hugs the
coast. On one side the mountain rises so
steeply even a goat wouldn’t tackle it;
the other side drops so far and so fast
you wouldn't have time to worry. On
the most hair-raising bend a friendly
fingerboard, with a neat arrow, informs
the motorist: “Nearest telephone, 10
miles.”


“Swelpme": The Gunga Din of our
working-bee parked his two water-
buckets under the standpipe-tap near the
front gate, marched up to the house, and
politely requested permission to take a
few gallons of drinking-water. The New
Australian occupant couldn’t understand
—until he sighted the buckets, then he
was all hands and hospitality. A few
hours later he came over to the job and
tried to tell Gunga something. After the
fourth “What was that again, mate?” the
Old Aussie beamed, nodded agreement,
and said: “I ain’t got a clue about what
y’re sayin’, mate, but I suppose it’s all
right.” Just before lunch he went to fill
the billies, found the water cut off but the
key on the cock, and turned it on. Thirty
seconds later a furious New Aussie came
storming out of the house. He looked as
though he had been squirted squarely in
the chest with a fire-hose. That was
what he’d been trying to say—he’d turned
the water off while he changed a tap
over the sink!
* * * *
“Glen Park”: Someone rang the local
stock-ranger to report that there were
horses loose on an unfenced piece of
council land. Hurrying to the spot to do
his duty, he found a merry-go-round being
erected.
* * * *
“Kelms”: The brush-tailed phascogale
—the wambenger of W.A. —is a roost
ferocious customer . . . sudden death to
"Not only is he old-fashioned in dress, but he insists on Working hard
for the full eight hours.”
mice and young rats and small birds.
But its very ferocity keeps its numbers
down. The young remain suspended on
the teat, in what is only a very rudi-
mentary pouch, for close on 10 weeks, and
while they’re there, and the mother lives,
they’re safe ; but as they grow they
become an increasing impediment to the
hunting mother, and in greater danger of
being dislodged. If that happens they
simply become other moving creatures to
be killed and eaten. Phascogales have
eight or 10 teats, and often when the
young are born there aren’t enough teats
to go round. Yet usually only a couple
from each litter reach maturity.
* * * *
STATIONED at Thursday Island early
in the First World War, I noticed that
invariably the natives gathered at the
jetty hours before the arrival of a ship.
That was before wireless, and we had
little or no warning of ship-movements.
We engaged a local “boy,” ostensibly as
a batman for Milman Hill Fort, but
really to function as a sort of early-
warning device for shipping.
Milman Hill is a cone-shaped peak
that rises some 370 ft. above sea-level. It
has an uninterrupted view for miles.
A conversation would go something
like this:
Boy: “Ship he come. Boss.”
Me: “Which way he come?”
Boy: “Him come along south,
Boss.”
The lookout would move towards the
telescope, and the boy would say, “No
catchem smoke yet, Boss. Maybe two-
three hour.” And in a couple of hours
or so we would pick up a steamer’s smoke
on the southern horizon. The boy
always knew whether the ship was just
passing through or was a coaster. If the
latter he would give the name of the ship
and the names of any locals on board.
Later I was appointed Censor, and this
entailed a daily trip to the post-office.
One morning I noticed that a boy
who always greeted me affably stood
mournful and forlorn outside his shop,
so I asked what was the matter. He
replied: “Me very sad pfeller, Boss,
brother belong me him die.”
Me: “When him die?”
Boy: “Las’ night eight-o’clock.”
Me: “But nobody sick in hospital.”
Boy: “Him not in hospital. Him die
island belong me.”
Me: “Where island belong you?”
Boy: “Him stop Murray Island.”
About three days later the Murray
Island lugger arrived at T.I. with the
news that the boy’s brother had died, and
at eight-o’clock that night.
During the last war I had to revisit
T.I. as chairman of a very hush-hush
committee. We chartered a civilian
plane, wifh strict orders to the airline
co. that our names must not be men-
tioned. On arrival at Horn Island ’drome
we were met by the local manager of the
co. An old friend, his greeting so lacked
any note of surprise that I remarked on
it. “Oh,” he said, “I knew you were
coming—the boys told me. They couldn’t
remember your name, but described you
so accurately I knew it must be you.”
Now I’m wondering whether, with
education and the rest of it, the Torres
Straits Islanders will lose that always
amazing gift of second-sight.
G. P. M.
THE NEW TRAWLER
From the wet rocks, in company with
shags,
/ watched the gala * trawler, glad with
flags.
Prance, a white pony gay with scarlet
reins,
Over the sea’s clear hills and secret plains.
The girls were brighter flags that flew more
gaily
And all the sea from there to Jerry Bailey
Showered in the gay confetti of their
song "
Thrown -by the dancing wind as it sped
along.
The men strummed mandolins. The seas
were rough,
But Seppe raised his voice, and sure
enough
“O Sole Mio” raced the wind and tide
And sent the fishing eagle floating wide.
Next morning in the harbor long and long
They weighed and packed their fish. And
still a song,
“Maria Marie,” sang Seppe as he toiled
Till all the decks were washed, the ropes
all coiled.
Then home the lithe brown men went
from the sea,
Backs turned on fish, and shouting
happily,
And on the water, sun-turned polished
brass,
The trawler swayed, a pony put to grass
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.


JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES FOR
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
FOR
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of
residence at St. John’s College and an allowance of up to £lO per annum,
payable at the discretion of the Trustees,
_ OR
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £175 per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under
the Will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are
insufficient to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science and must
satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the University of Sydney, or
of Entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be.
Forms of Application (whiQh must be returned duly completed not
later than the 9th December, 195 7, in the case of Bursaries tenable at
the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, and not later than the 20th January,
19r,H. in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney), and further
particulars may be obtained from: —
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A .D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with tho
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
Business.Rollery. ETE.
AUSTRALIAN GYPSUM, LTD.
A FTER more than a quarter-
century of stabbing in the
dark as to the quality of the
investment behind the poker-
faced accounts of Australian
Gypsum, Ltd., shareholders
were recently treated to a one-
for-two bonus-issue, and now
the accounts (to June 30 last)
have been published in an
attractive form that should
provide information adequately
to most of the critics.
Furthermore, apart from the
form of accounts, the figures
themselves are gratifying from
the shareholders’ point of view.
Australian Gypsum, Ltd.,
holds a two-fifths interest in
Australian Gypsum Products
Pty., Ltd., and its wholly-
owned subsidiaries. (Victor
Electric Plaster Mills, Ltd., also
owns two-fifths and Peninsula
Plaster Co., Ltd., one-fifth.)
The principal subsidiaries of
Australian Gypsum Products
are Australian Plaster Industries
Pty., Waratah Gypsum Pty.,
Insulwool Products Pty., Bellco
Pty., and Australian Plaster Co.
Pty.
The group mines gypsum
(which is used for the making
of plaster-of-Paris, as an
ingredient in Portland cement,
and as a soil-improver) at
Kowulka and Stenhouse Bay
(S.A.), Ivanhoe (N.S.W.), and
in the Victorian Mallee. It has
plaster-mills at Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Thevenard
(S.A.), and Auckland (N.Z.),
and these produce fibrous-
plaster sheeting, piaster-board,
hard wall-plasters, and dental
and surgical plasters.
Perlite, a new development
in lightweight building-
materials, is mined at
Nerang (Q.) and processed in
Sydney; it is used for fire-
proofing and insulation 'of
modern buildings, and the
expanded ore is used as an
aggregate with plaster or
cement. Insulwool is an insula-
tion for homes and commercial
buildings, as well as for
appliances requiring tempera-
ture-control; it is also used as
an acoustic. A wide range of
other acoustic products is
turned out, including the plaster
Perfotile. School chalks are
also produced under the name
of Bellco, and others by
arrangement with Reeves, of
London,
Away from the plaster
business, the group makes
Burgess micro-switches to
provide automatic control of
many operations.
With such a wide spread of
activities (mostly relying on the
building and construction
industries) the group last year
found economic conditions
pretty much to its liking.
Though homebuilding was
down a bit, commercial and
industrial construction reached
unprecedented figures, and the
Gypsum group notched a
further record in its (undis-
closed) turnover, which was 9
p.c. higher than in the preced-
ing year.
No previous years’ figures
are available for comparison,
but the group on this occasion
showed a strong profit-earning
position.
After providing £124,259 for
depreciation, £75,000 for in-
creased cost of plant-replace-
ment, and £243,242 for income-
tax, »net group profit was shown
at £264,648.
But if the tax-provision is
any guide, the group has
provided for tax liability on a
profit (after tax) of about
£405,000. On this basis it would
appear that the group at least
is doing much to l#ok after
the problem of replacing assets
at the higher costs prevailing
at the present time.
On the basis of profit as
claimed, the share belonging to
Australian Gypsum, Ltd., the
co. listed on Sydney ’Change,
was equal to about 20 p.c. on
its capital, after allowing for
its own directors’ fees, etc.
However, the operating group
passed on less than half the
claimed profit, and Australian
Gypsum maintained a comfort-
able 10 p.c. p.a. to its share-
holders on its bonus-increased
capital.
Australian Gypsum, Ltd., has
a paid capital now of £525,000
in £1 ords. following the
bonus-issue of 174,350 £1
shares to its shareholding
public, based on a revalu-
ation of assets by the
operating group and a total'
bonus-issue therefrom to the
three holding-cos. amounting
to £375,000. A.G.’s holding in
the group is 550,000 £1 ord.
shares, Victor Plaster the same,
and Peninsula Plaster 275,000.
Australian Gypsum Products
Pty. thus has a paid capital of
£1,375,000. Reserves, including
£75,000 appropriated last year
as increased" cost of plant-
replacement, aggregate
£1,362,580. Various creditors
and income-tax provision
amount to £694,082.
Assets include freehold and
leasehold land and buildings (at
cost or valuation), £1,061,789,
machinery and plant (cost),
£1,475,154 both items less
depreciation, £989,782, in at
£1,547,161 net. Investments in


fa
*
I'll travel one day...
Like my Uncle Charlie, I’m going to see England and
America when I grow up. Already I’m putting my
pennies away in an A.N.Z. Savings Account. Uncle
Charlie started it for me with 5/~.
He says I should use my A.N.Z. Savings A<.count to
save for other things, too. By the time I’ve grown
up, I want to have a lot of money in the bank, »*.•
B’m taking his advice. My A.N.Z. Money Box is nearl/
full already.
I A’N-Z
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED —Cheque Accounts
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LlMlTED —Savings Accounts
“ANZ34S*
associated cos. (cost) figure for
£74,382, stocks at £580,066,
debtors at £551,673, cash at
£92,703, deposits and deben-
tures £482,000, Government
securities £103,677.
All told, the figures suggest
earning-muscle and financial
liquidity. Though a new
plaster-mill is to be erected in
Melbourne, the plaster-board
factory is being extended, and
additions are being made to the
Ins u 1 wool plant, “cash
resouices available should be
ample to cover the anticipated
expenditure.”
This has been undoubtedly a
year of pleasant surprises for
shareholders in Australian
Gypsum and the other public
cos. associated with the group.
The last occasion on which the
group’s affairs received as much
prominence ,was during the
depression, when bad times
forced the merger of the
working-assets of the present
three holding-cos. Since then,
a long-term job of rehabilita-
tion has resulted in the present
happy position, where share-
holders in Australian Gypsum,
after last June’s one-for-two
bonus-issue, can see net
tangible assets of over 435. for
every £1 share they hold, and
with the earning-power of the
group at a high level.
At 38s. in the sharemarket
Australian Gypsum shares yield
5.3 p.c. on the present 10 p.c.
div. basis.
[Listed on Melbourne
’Change, Victor Plaster, with a
similar holding ( 550,000 shares)
in Australian Gypsum Products
Pty., Ltd., has a similar paid
capital {£525,000, in £1 shares)
to Australian Gypsum, Ltd.
Peninsula Plaster has half the
holding and half the paid
capital of the other two. The
holder of 100 shares in any of
the three public cos. has an
equal equity in the operating
co.]
The £3O-mi!lion Loan
'THE £3O-million Common-
wealth cash loan now
current is in three types of
security:
(1) 4 per cent., maturing: May 15,
1960, issued at £99.
(2) 5 per cent., maturing: February
15, 1967. issued at par.
(3) 5 per cent., maturing: February
15, 1973, issued at par.
The loan opened on
November 6, and closes not
later than November 26.
Applications for 4 p.c.
securities will be received in
amounts of £lOO or multiples,
and for 5 p.c. securities in
amounts of £lO or multiples.
Interest will be subject to
Commonwealth taxation, but
will not be subject to any
income-tax under the law of
a Stale. For the period during
which no income-tax is levied
under the law of a Slate, a
rebate of Commonwealth
taxation of 2s. in respect of
each pound of interest from
this loan will be allowed.
Under the Trustees Acts of
the several States, trustees are
authorised to invest in the loan
whether its price is above or
below the redemption value of
par.
Bonds and transfers of stock
will be free of Commonwealth
and State stamp-duty.
On the Stock Exchanges,
brokerage at ss. in the £lOO is
charged on sales.
Exchange will not be charged
by banks in Australia on
cheques ii> payment of sub-
scriptions dr on warrants and
coupons in payment of interest.
Proceeds of the loan will be
used for public works and
services of the Commonwealth
and the States and, as may. be
necessary, for redeeming
securities maturing on Novem-
ber 15, 1957.
Horst:
{From 1,. Owen]
A QUEENSLAND corres-
pondent has written ask-
ing if my quoting ( B.
23/10/’57) of E. A. Webb’s
paper on the oil prospects of
the Permian in Central
Queensland indicates that I
am in agreement with the
“Hgrsl .und Graben” (or up>-
lifted-and-downthrown block)
explanation of the Central
Queensland structure as illus-
trated in Fig. 9 of the cited
article.
I have no wish to derogate
Mr. Webb’s ingenious inter-
pretation of the earlier geo-
logical history of the Arcadia-
M Orel 1 a - Rei d’s Dome
structures, but I would point
out that it does not fit in with
the known borehole and
surface data when these are
collated on a three-dimen-
sional basis. Structural
geology is, essentially, a three-
dimensional study, on top of
which time may be considered
as a fourth dimension.
Melbourne Building
TtfELBURNIANS’ faith in
the large and immediate
expansion of the State was
emphasised by the announce-
ment by Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society, Ltd., that
it would demolish its present
noble but uneconomic building
at the corner of Elizabeth and
Collins Streets to erect a
£3-miUion office-building on the
site; and by David Martin,
managing-director of Tivoli
Freeholds Pty., that the old
Lyceum cinema in Bourke
Street and the hotel it backs
on to (the Hunt Club, in Little
Collins), would be replaced by
a commercial centre, chiefly
littJe shoos.
Much of the Hunt Club-
Lyceum frontage, on Royal
Lane, is as seedy as the older
parts of Sydney, but the
C.M.L. building, built by the
Equitable Life of New York
which later withdrew from
Australia, is one of the archi-
tectural gems of the 1890's,


CHATEAU TANUNDA
Stories of the Coastal Lights No. 11
Wollongong Light
Wollongong has the newest major light on the New South
Wales coast. It was built in 1936 along lines similar to a
wheat silo, its white circular concrete tower rising ;o 130 ft.
above sea level. The tower, which is 83 ft. high, is actually
the tallest on the State’s seaboard.
Due to an unusual series of events, this tower was com-
pleted a considerable time before its electrical lighting
apparatus became available. The apparatus had been pur-
chased overseas, but when it was given tests at Melbourne
certain parts were found to be faulty.
Tile tower had been completed in October, 1936, and
in July the following year it was decided to install a temporary
acetylene gas light since replacement of parts for the electrical
plant was extrefnely slow. The permanent electric light was
not exhibited until October, 1938.
The lighthouse shows two lights—a white light of 200,000
candle power and a red light of 80,000 candle power.
Visibility is 17 miles.
The electrical apparatus is controlled by a spring time
clock, which is manually wound and set each month by a
visiting officer. An acety ene gas standby light switches on
15 minutes before sunset, and after running for 15 minutes
goes off and the electrical lights come into operation. At sun-
rise the electrical apparatus switches off, and the acetylene
light runs for 15 minutes before closing down.
A six-volt alarm bell s connected to the Assistant Harbour
Master's premises about 100 yards away from the lighthouse.
If, for any reason, the electrical system should fail., this alarm
bell will ring and th' acetylene gas light will automatically
come into operation.
More than a dozen wrecks —most of them during the last
century —have occurred in the area, at least four of them
with losses ot lives. One of the largest of these vessels was
the 827-ton barque “Qusen of Nations,” lost off Wollongong
on May 31, 18HI, when bound from London to Sydney.
The position of the light is latitude 34° 25’ south, longi-
tude 150“ 56’ east. The Wollongong light is about 40 miles
-.outh of Sydney by sea.
You can have confidence in the quality
oj this pure grape brandy
CHATEAU TANUNDA
N.SW Agents
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors or fine spirits for 119 years
imposing and beautifully
portioned, as a great life-office
should be.
The society has little option,
however, but to replace its
current 40,000 square feet of
usable office-space with the
new building, which will pro-
vide 275,000 square feet, since
the site, dividing the retail and
financial section of the city,
is one of the most valuable in
Melbourne.
Most Melburnians will regret
the passing of this landmark,
especially as they can still see
opposite St. Paul’s, on one of
the world’s busiest corners, the
little old hostelry where Mr.
Young and Mr. Jackson
flourished,
i(rr . . , ~ „ . .
The Age s Problems
CJOME shareholders in David
Syme and Co. received a
jolt from the harsh realities
of newspaper-publishing these
days when the annual accounts
were presented in October,
The closing of “The Argus,”
the traditional (though hardly
recognisable) competitor of
“The Age,” was an ill wind
so far as profit-earning was
concerned during 1956-57.
Out of it all “The Age”
received an embarrassment of
circulation. Old “Argus”
readers switched to “The Age”
in numbers which surprised
newspapermen in Melbourne,
but with newsprint at about a
shilling a pound (and with a
pound of newsprint in a Satur-
day “Age,” sold for 4d.), circu-
lation without a corresponding
increase in advertising revenue
can be a losing proposition.
As it was, the economic
squeeze was already affecting
advertising revenues in the
second half of 1956 and early
1957, and “The Age” reported
“a material decrease in
revenue.”
Newsprint went up in price
at this point, and then “The
Argus” expired.
Greater consumption of
newsprint at the higher prices
followed, and distribution (and
other) costs which the two
papers previously shared had
to be borne by “The Age”- on
its own.
Advertising charges' were
raised by “The Age” in order
to meet the situation, but
though these are now having
effect, during the financial year
the full impact of the sudden
changes following the demise
of “The Argus” showed up in
a steep drop in profits:
t Dividends— Rd*
Jmv. Profit. Pref. f Ord.—, serves.*
5 p.c.
£ £ }>.e. £ £
Profit sale assets, £3970 .. 185,877
Loss on investments, £9348. . 176,534
Kxcess tax provision, £5963. 182,497
’537.121,239 20,000 7 = 70.000 213,736
Profit sale ‘ assets, £2782 .. 216,518
’54,.232,739 20, (tOO 9 = 90.000 339,257
W/off intangibles, £34,243. . 305,014
Profit sale assets, £ 4049... 309,063
’55...233,806 20,000 8 80,600 442,869
Long-Service prov’ll, £36,000. 406.869
Profit sale assets, £3006 . . 409,875
’56..192,221 20.000 8 = 80,000 502,096
Profit sale fixed assets, £421 502,517
’57.. 89,599 20,000 6 = 60,000 512,107
* Reserves subject to goodwill
(£150,000) at 30/6/’57.
After charging £59,831 for
depreciation (previous year
£49,052), and setting aside
£56,750 for income tax (against
£125,250), net profit from
trading and investments was
£102.631 lower at £89,590, and
equal to 6.9 p.c. on ord. capital
(after allowing for the prefs.)
compared with 17.2 p.c. and
21.3 p.c. in the two preceding
years.
The ord. div. was dropped
from 8 p.c. to 6 p.c., and only
£9590 was carried to reserves,
compared with £92,221 in the
preceding year. But reserves
were already a fairly stout prop
tor capital, the result of a con-
servative dividend policy since
flotation as a public co. in
1948, though they are subject
to £150,000 of goodwill.
The swift changes in the
morning-newspaper field in
Melbourne, as well as the
harder times in publishing
generally, caught David Syme
and Co. when it was in the
awkward process of reconstruc-
ting the Collins Street building
and installing new printing-
plant, as well as plunging into
the uncertain business of TV-
broadcasting.
A fourth printing-press was
installed and another five-unit
press has been ordered. “In
addition,” the directors report,
“funds were applied to increase
your company’s shareholding
in General Television Corpora-
tion Pty., Ltd. (GTV Channel
9), although since balance-date
this substantial investment by
your co. has been reviewed and
reduced to an amount more in
line with your directors’ policy
of retaining sufficient funds to
meet the development pro-
gramme of ‘The Age’ business.”
The heavy outlay on fixed
assets during the year, and the
higher price of newsprint, are
reflected in this comparison of
balance-sheet figures:
Paid capital— 1956. 195 T.
Pref £400,000 £400,006
Old 1,000,000 1,000.060
Reserves . . 502,096 512,167
Overdraft .. 155,627 695,714
Sundry creditors 98,816 159,764-
Income-tax prov. 125,532 56,957
Long-service leave 36,000
Final div. . . 50,000 70,000
£2,363,071 £2,894,539
Freeholds . . 678,840 866,984
Plant . . . . 670,188 651,33*
Stocks .. .. 382,369 534.479
Debtors .. 361,969 386,944
Investments .. 102,143 2.86,617
Cash 17,562 18,177
Goodwill .. 150,000 150.009
£2,363,071 £2,894,539
The jump of £184,473 in invest-
ments appears to be mainly in
respect of the TV venture. (No
TV-station is yet making
money.) The bank-overdraft
rose by £540,087 in meeting the
general expansion in balance-
sheet figures.
In the midst of the commo-
tion and “squeeze” during the
year it was decided to end
publication of “The Leader,” a
century - old farm - and - stock
weekly, in order to apply mote
resources and efforts to “The
Age,” which has always been
the mainstay of the business.
During the current year
trading is reported to have
improved, but it seems clear
that the co.’s capital commit-
ments and other problems will
prompt the directors to con-
tinue a conservative financial
policy for some time to come.


“Blast the Piano! JUMJP!”


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Adler and Malko
Larry Adler brought the
mouth-organ to full status as
a virtuoso instrument in Aus-
tralia when he appeared with
the Sydney Symph oji y
Orchestra under Nicolai Malko
in a performance of Berger’s
Concerto for Harmonica the
first written in the form.
Caribbean rhythms, both lazy
and lively, dominate this
attractive contemporary work,
the scoring for the solo
instrument including spec-
tacular double - octave and
arpeggio work, all embellished
with a filigree of tricky cross-
rhythmic devices and figures
which leap from individual
orchestral instruments to the
soloist and back to a different
one. The effect is one of gaiety,
slightly restrained in the
middle slow section.
The final movement is
remarkable for a long and
intricate cadenza, and the
tone-color Adler was able
to inject into this was astonish-
ing. At times he achieved a
note strikingly like the oboe,
at others he produced one of
flutelike sweetness. In this
work the writing for the wood-
winds is outstanding.
•The Symphony was Sibelius’s
Second, a big drama of light
and sunshine, and the perform-
ance had no little majesty, with
the slow movement carrying a
fair degree of the prescribed
mystic content and the muted
strings and bassoons doing good
work in creating the illusion.
The other works were “Sieg-
fried’s Journey to the Rhine”
—a smoothly wrought reading
in which the softly-breathed
brasses lent an atmosphere of
brooding twilight—and Four
Dance Episodes from Aaron
Copland’s ballet-suite “Rodeo,”
which, one suspects, owes more
to borrowed folk-tunes of the
West than to the invention of
the composer.
***
“Rhythm Express”
Star of the current show at
Sydney Tiv. is Shirley Bassey,
who, so the proeramnie notes,
hails originally from the Tiger
Bay district of Cardiff. She
is really good—a sultry wild-
kitten with a ten-thousand-volt
purr which can suddenly scorch
up to sixty-thousand.
She sings sweet or sour, cool
or hot, soft or strident, and
her hands and arms, caressing,
writhing and stabbing, effec-
tively clarify any small points
her voice leaves to the imagina-
tion. When she sings that
a ■ “girl should have the
looks of an angel and the
mind of a Marine,” she softens
the blow with “it’s my body
that’s important, not my mind”;
and when she entreats for
someone to help her “burn my
candle at both ends,” half the
audience chivalrously reaches
for matches; but when she
sears the stalls with
If girls can’t get the men they want
God help the men they get
the lesser souls in the’ front
rows look like beating a
thoughtful retreat to the circle.
Miss Bassey’s appearance
comes at the end of a fast, well-
dressed show which includes
comedian Bobby Limb work-
ing furiously on pretty thin
material; singers Johnny
O’Connor, Daryl Stewart and
Alwyn Leckie—who looks as
good as she sounds ; the
Dalrays, who evoke amusement
and amazement with their
mixture of comedy and acro-
batics ; Jimmy Jeff, who does
some intense and spectacular
juggling While casually
balancing on one foot on the
slack-wire; Alan Rowe, who
juggles his vocal chords to
imitate everything from a storm
at sea to a train through
Wynyard; the Three Winds,
who put most of it through
harmonicas with remarkable
effect; Dorothi Neal, who gets
even more remarkable effects
by painting faces on naked
torsos ; and Lili Berde, whose
“Marihuana Dance” is a hot
and glittering business which,
incidentally, might be even
more so if it were done against
a simple drop and without
the present distracting setting
and story.
The bill also includes Joe
Lawman and Joy, and in case
one hasn't noted before that
Lawman is a very funny man,
the oversight is hereby immedi-
ately corrected His acts are
all familiar, but are nonethe-
less funny for that, and, if his
humor doesn’t catch the
sophisticates, there’s an honest,
hard-working enthusiasm about
it that gets the rest in.
He seems in particularly good
fettlb in the current show, and
his Roman-soldier number,
with a couple of wandering
billycan-lids for breastplates,
is really an excellent bit of
clowning ; his facial and vocal
contortions in his cowhand's,
account of looking after ,cows,
goats, pigs and snakes were
sufficient for this commentator
to join with the others in the
audience who yelled for more.
Mr. Lawman, in fact, had ’em
in Tits at the end of that number,
and if he’d given it another
minute or so he would have
had ’em in the aisles. His
humor is in the old Tiv.
tradition, and shouldn’t be
underrated because something
smoother and smarter has been
bred out of radio and night-
clubs.
Artbursts
Melbourne Exhibitions
A varied collection of
art shows includes the
frescoes painted by Le n
Annois for the boardroom
of the Federated Pharma-
ceutical Service Guild of Aus-
tralia, ceramic murals designed
by Laurence Daws' and
exhibited at the Melbourne
University school of architec-
ture, and an aboriginal exhibi-
tion at the A.N.Z. Bank.
At the Tasmanian Tourist
Bureau gallery Paul Schnieder,
a one-time South African
planter who used to provide his
dusky labor force with fresh
meat by big-game hunting and
who now lives in retirement in
the Apple Island, shows Tas-
manian landscapes painted in
pastel direct from Nature inter-
spersed with memory pictures
of the rhinos, elephants, giraffes
and other fauna he has
hunted.
At. the Gallery of Contem-
porary Art Danilo Vassilieff is
showing stone sculptured into
shapes which can’t be found in
the external world. On the
other hand, the Belmont Group
at the Victorian Artists, all ex-
pupils of Max Meldrum, rely
entirely on their visual observa-
tion. All their work is
measured according to the scale
used by their master; conse-
quently their pictures all tend
to look alike, but they also
often look surprisingly like
Nature.
It might be retorted that this
isn’t art but reproduction, and
that the camera can do the job
ever so much better. That it
can’t is shown by the exhibition
of international photography at
the National Gallery.
The Obehme Group at the
Athenaeum all depict the Vic-
torian landscape according to
much the same prescription.
Stanley Ballard has caught the
appropriate mood in
“Approaching Storm” very
nicely.
*t* *x* ❖
Lymburrier
Reporting from abroad at
the David Jones’ gallery,
Sydney, Francis Lymburner is
much what he was before ; or
perhaps a little less so. Clowns,
ponies, ballet-scenes, carnival ;
slight, witty, charming in color.
There is much to please the
e/e, much to disappoint it, and
little to hold it; but such
lovely bits qf color as “Man
with Flowers” or “Apollo and
Daphne’’ would look decorative
on anybody’s wall.
A. &
V V V y •
Adelaide Show
Udo Sellback and Karin
Schepers, at the Adelaide Royal
Society of Arts, are showing
oils, lithographs, tempera and
gouache. It sourtQs like a juicy
mixture, and so it- is, particu-
larly in the exuberant colors of
Miss Schepers’ gouaches. Yet
for all their sure and lively
technique, these pictures, are
disappointing. They lack a
subject. They flounder some-
where between the sensuous,
familiar world, and the bleak
space of the abstract intellect.
Mr. Sell bach’s “Bather” and
“Show People” are purged of
humanity, just as Miss Schepers’
snails seem to be in search of
their shells. A symbolism like
Graham Sutherland’s shows
signs, but no more, of emerging
in these paintings. There is no
doubt that something exciting
will emerge from both of these
artists when they find subject
worthy of their technique,
whether they be animal, vege-
table or mineral. Outside the
gallery, Miss Schepers is Mrs.
Sellbach ; he is art master at
St. Peter’s Prep., and they are
both fairly recent arrivals from
Germany.
Geoffrey Dutton.
+s♦ I
Blake Prize
Closing-date for entries for
the next Blake Prize (200gns.)
is noon, February 12, 1958, at
Mark Foy’s Gallery, Sydney.


41k.
m
I
*5
<€ LYSAGHT
RURAL PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY,
sn
& -
K
rv-
* on your property
• Heavy gauge galvanized steel sheets
e Easily erected permanent
• Rodent and weatherproof
• Hinged type bag bolder
on 1000-8500 Bushel Silos
• Steel earth rings and ,
loading platforms are
available as extras If
required
• Prompt delivery ,
LYSAGHT
Grain Silos
EARTH RING
An earth ring, which is an extra
ring of corrugated steel sheets
filled with earth or sand, is a
most effective and economical
method of erecting an elevated
base for your Lysaght Silo. The
use o f an earth ring reduces the
risk of underground seepage.
Full details are available on
request.
AUGERS
A completely new type grain
auger is now available to fiil
and empty Lysaght Silos.
Write for further information to:
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. in all Capital Cities or
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED. NEWCASTLE WORKS
S26AC
Films
‘‘Saint Joan”
Graham Greene's screenplay
follows Shaw’s text very closely
and cleverly uses a series of
flashbacks from the Epilogue
in which Joan and some of the
other characters at her trial,
some since dead, some alive,
gather 25 years later around the
bed of Charles, the King whose
crowning in Rheims Cathedral
flowed from Joan's victories
over the English armies. The
device lends clarity and
cogency to the play, which is
distinguished by a trial-scene
of notable calmness and
dignity.
Seventeen - year - old Jean
Seberg, while failing to present
a portrait of heaven-sent
military genius, does capture
fairly well the spirit of
dedicated service and shining-
eyed martyrdom, but the film’s
great attraction is its gallery of
brilliantly - drawn character -
studies.
The best of the dialogue and
speeches have been retained,
and director Otto Preminger
has caught with great fidelity
the ironic spirit of Shaw’s
play. At Sydney Embassy.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Heroes Are Tired”
An absorbing French film
which, basically, concerns two
ex - fighter - pilots, one Free
French and one Nazi, who are
pitted against each other by
their diamond - smuggling
employer, but who, in all the
decay and rottenness of a newly
independent African republic,
find that they have something
in common in the remnants of
the superb human spirit that
made them great in war-time.
The film makes its point
unobtrusively and the direction
is rather like the acting, which
skilfully touches in aspects of
character germane to the
story, flickers over a dozen
other incidental facets of
human behavior, and leaves the
immensely satisfying suggestion
of depths unexplored. One to
see.
At Sydney Savoy.
& A.
“The Delicate Delinquent”
Jerry Lewis calls on his
whole range of comic facial
expressions in this bright slap
at the cult of side-levers, fancy
hair-dos and exaggerated
clothes favored by the lairs and
louts who kick around in gangs
trying to demonstrate how
tough they are.
Lewis, as B a harmless janitor
in a tenement-building, is
accidentally involved in a
springblade-knife fight between
two gangs of bodgies and is
lumbered by the cops, who
regard him as a terror. His
“rehabilitation” at the hands
of a soft-hearted cop, who
is assisted by the city council’s
beauteous social - reform
research-officer, makes for a
good quota of laughs. At
Sydney Prince Edward.
*> ❖ ❖
“Full of Life”
The trials of expectant
motherhood coupled with
house-repair and in-law up-
roars are the basis of this
delightful comedy, which,
despite the presence of Judy
Holliday, owes most of its
success to a richly humorous
performance by 20st.-odd Salva-
tore Baccaloni, as her tyran-
nical Italian father-in-law.
The comedy gets an added
boost from his insistence that
daughter-in-law Judy, who has
been married in a' registry-
office, should be respectably
churched before the happy
event, with the result that the
“bride” barely makes it from
the vestry to the maternity-
ward.
At Sydney State.
❖ * ❖
“Steel Bayonet”
A handful of survivors from
a British infantry company
severely mauled in the
Tunisian desert in 1943 were
ordered to hold a farm-outpost
against an expected German
attack until newly arriving
heavy armor could be deployed.
The story of the gallant action
is realistically told in this
British film, with Leo Genn as
the phlegmatic, determined
Major who directs the defence
making a good fist of the
assignment. At Sydney Plaza.
*> ❖ <*
“Oh, for a Man!”
Jayne Mansfield, the most
artificial specimen of the female
species in celluloid captivity,
inhabits this comedy mainly for
the purpose of swinging every
swingable part of her well-
nourished anatomy on every
possible occasion. The good
parts of a curate’s-egg film are
supplied by Tony Randall, as
a harassed young advertising
executive, and by the snappy
cracks at the hooey surround-
ing TV and radio commercials.
At Sydney Mayfair.
*> ❖ ♦>
“Checkpoint”
Melodrama on the big-time
car-racing circuit in Italy, with
Anthony Steel as a daredevil
driver menaced by a murderer
with a gun while he is shooting
along at around 120 m.p.h.
There is the usual wealthy,
urbane manipulator of crooked
doings (James Robertson
Justice), and the sweet young
thing (Odile Versois) who does
doughty deeds to foil him and
his works. At Sydney Lyceum.


BRADFORD COTTON MILLS LIMITED
Head Office: "Bradnull House," Cnr. Missenden and Parramatta Hoads, CAMPERDOWN
Speech of Mr. S. M. Wreford (Chairman) to Shareholders at the Thirtieth Annual General
Meeting of Bradford Cotton Mills Limited 1 , held on the 30th October, 1957, at 12.30 p.m.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
As is customary, printed copies
of the Financial Statements and
Reports of the Directors relating
to them were sent out to Share-
holders with the Notice of Meeting.
With your permission I therefore
propose to take them as read.
CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS
The total value of sales tor me
year and the Profit Before Tax were
both all time records.
It js the Profit Before Tax which
really shows the progress of the
Company on the profit making side.
Governments by increasing the rates
ot tax payable on profits,, however,
tend to obscure the position and can
show results in a different light.
For the year under review, how-
ever, there has been no increase in
taxation. In fact, there has been
a decrease, but this was not taken
into account when making the
provision shown in the accounts.
During the year expenditure of a
capital nature, almost entirely on
new plant, totalled £266,000. The
value of obsolete plant either sold
or scrapped totalled £104,000, which
brought the cost value of the
installed plant and equipment in all
of our mills at 30th June last to
£5,356,000, against which deprecia-
tion totalling £2,457,400 has been
provided. It is interesting to note
that over the past six years expendi-
ture on plant, equipment and other
capital items has amounted to
£2,376,110. These funds have been
found from our own resources —no
mean effort.
Total depreciation provided in the
accounts for the year under review
amounted to £323,099 compared
with £297,703 for the previous year.
Investments in outside companies
totalled £453,000, which was approxi-
mately £37,000 less than last year.
The reduction is due to the writing
off of the balance outstanding in
the Plexon Company.
In the Directors’ Report and
Company’s printed Balance Sheets
mention was made of the increase
in the value of stocks at the 30th
June last compared with the previous
years, and to the fact that the
increase was due to the heavy stocks
ol raw cotton on hand at 30th June
last. There is nothing unusual about
variations in raw cotton stocks.
These increase in quantities and
value just after the making of pur-
chases and fall away again as they
are consumed, until the occasion
necessitates obtaining further
supplies.
The Bank Overdraft had been
reduced by the 3Qth September by
£300,000. The reduction, as was the
case with the increase, is accounted
for in the variation in stocks of raw
cotton.
Sundry Debtors and amounts out-
standing have increased by approxi-
mately £155,000. To some extent
these figures have followed the
increased sales, but there is nothing
unusual about them.
Creditors stand at £1,478,000 com-
pared with £1,079,000 for the
previous period. This figure too is
largely affected by acceptance against
raw cotton purchases.
PRODUCTIVITY
In spite of the substantial increases
which have taken place in wages
and salaries since 1950, the cost con-
tent of these items for each £ of
goods sold has not increased. In
fact, with the exception of one year
when special circumstances existed
and when there was a very minor
reduction, the figures for 1957 are
less than for any of the previous
eight years.
An analysis of the wages and
salaries paid by the Company and
the relative production figures over
recent fy'ears indicates the steady
increases which have taken place in
productivity.
All other operating costs and
amounts paid for taxation have
increased substantially.
LONG SERVICE LEAVE
It will be noted that a sum of
£44,000 has been set aside to meet
long service leave. Recent legisla-
tion, as it is well known, provides
for the giving of three months’
special leave to employees who have
completed tVventy years’ service, with
proportionate payments for those
who have served for varying periods
between ten to twenty years. Pay-
ment for the leave accrued
immediately became a liability on
the passing of legislation, although
some of it will not be paid out for
many years. In any case, the pay-
ments will be spread over a long
period. However, the liability has
been incurred and provision for it
has accordingly been made.
Similar provisions to meet long
service commitments as they become
due will be made annually in future.
OVERSEAS COMPETITION
The types and styles of fabrics
produced in Australia by Bradford
Cotton Mills Limited continue to
come into the country from overseas
in substantial quantities. Compara-
tive figures for recent years seem to
indicate that import restrictions have
had little or no effect on this com-
petition, as was pointed out in my
address l&st year. The importations
cf canvas and duck totalled 8,236,000
square yards for the period under
review, compared with 8,043,000
square yards for the previous period.
Imports of denims for the same
period were 1,825,000 compared with
2,172,000, and for drills, dungarees
and jeans 4,510,000 for the year
ended 30th June last, compared with
5,057,000 for the previous period.
CHATTANOOGA TUFTED
CARPETS PTY., LIMITED
This Company is now well estab-
lished. It was officially opened by
the Hon. Harold Holt, Minister for
Labour and Industry, at a function
which was held at the Mill on Bth
April, 1957.
This method of producing carpets
is completely new to Australia and
all personnel employed at the plant
had to be trained for the work. The
products of the Company have been
well received and it is now operat-
ing on a profit making basis, in spite
of the fact that the floor covering
industry is not by any means in a
prosperous condition in Australia
at the present time.
Bradford Cotton Mills Limited
has supplied the yarn required by
this Company, which has now
become an important customer.
PLANT IMPROVEMENTS
AND DEVELOPMENTS
The looms which have been
operating at Austral Silk and Cotton
Mills for approximately seventeen
years were replaced during the. year
b> new looms, with very marked
effect on production, productivity,
quality and profitsvof that Company.
The looms in the Weaving Mill at
Footscray, which were installed
about the same time as those by
Austral Silk and Cotton Mills, have
also been replaced by new looms for
producing canvas and duck, with
equally satisfactory results.
Ancillary equipment at the various
mills has also been kept up to date
either by modernisation or by com-
plete replacement where obsolescence
has made it less effective than new
equipment coming on to the
market.
The mills of the various Com-
panies are all working either two or
three shifts on full production, with
the exception of certain sections of
three units at Maitland, which are
operating on a three shift basis for
four days a week. It is hoped that
the reduced working period at these
plants will only be temporary, but
it is quite impossible to forecast,
with any degree of accuracy,
economic conditions which will pre-
vail during the year, as these are
affected by outside conditions over
which the Company has no control.
GENERAL
All the service departments of the
Company—personnel, training, pro-
duction and methods sections,
safety, medical and such like —are
working well and their contribution
towards the efficiency and profit
making capacity is considerable,
even though it may be indirect.
The plant has been well main-
tenanced and kept in proper working
order and all stocks have been care-
fully scrutinised item by item to
ensure that they are priced at
minimum values permissible.
The Company continued to make
steady progress throughout the year
and to consolidate its position in the
textile field generally in regard to the
types of textiles we produce. Sise
by side with the improvements which
the figures show, there has also been
developed improvements in all sec-
tions of mar<agement and control,
resulting in greater efficiency, greater
productivity and such like, which go
toward pioviding insurance towards
future success.
JAPANESE TRADE
AGREEMENT
In common with other industrial
enterprises in Australia, your
Directors have been concerned about
the possible effect on the operations
of the Company because of Japanese
Cade resulting from the Agreement
iecently entered into between the
Commonwealth Government and
Japan. To what extent this will
affect our operations during the
current year it is impossible to fore-
cast. The Management has been in
ciose touch, directly and through
organisations with which it is
associated, with the Government and
the departmental officers administer-
ing the departments most concerned.
The picture is still ffir from clear,
but there is no doubt the Govern-
ment and the departmental officers
are of the opinion that the condi-
tions of the Agreement itself and
other assurances which they have
received will ensure that no worth-
while industry will be seriously
injured. We can do no more and no
less than accept these assurances.
THE CURRENT YEAR
The conditions of trading for the
quarter ended iUth September have
been eminently satisractory. Sales
are well ahead ot the same period
last year and the profits which go
with them are equally satisfactory,
and in spite of some clouds on the
horizon your Boaid is confident that
whatever difficulties arise during
the coming year means will be found
to overcome them and minimise
their effect.
As you will be aware from the
newspaper reports, Bradford Cotton
Mills Limited has made an offer to
acquire all ordinary shares in Bur-
lington Mills (Australia) Limited not
now held by them, on the basis of an
exchange of one (1) Bradford Cotton
Mills Limited Ordinary share for
two (2) Burlington Mills (Australia)
Limited Ordinary shares. The
Directors of your Company feel that
if sufficient Burlington Mills (Aus-
tralia) Limited Shareholders are
agreeable to make the exchange ot
shares on this basis, it will be in the
interests of both companies.
I do not propose at this stage to
go into any turcher detail from the
point of view of Bradford' Cotton
Mills Limited, as the Directors
intend that the Shareholders of»this
Company will have an opportunity
of ratifying the arrangement in the
event of a sufficient number of the
Burlington Mills (Australia) Limited
Shareholders accepting the proposal.
In conclusion, I would like to
express my appreciation and that of
the Directors, and I am sure the
Shareholders, for the work of
Management, Staff and work force
generally through the year.
The Managing Director, Mr. R. J.
Webster, spent four months overseas
on the business of the Company.
The periodical visits which circum-
stances necessitate his making to
other parts of the world have always
proved to be of great benefit to the
Company. The speedy completion
of arrangements which it is not
possible to handle by correspondence
and knowledge acquired about the
latest developments in plant and
machinery and of textile processing,
enables the Company to keep up to
date with most of what is new in
other parts of the world.
BRADFORD COTTON MILLS
LIMITED
S.M. WREFORD
Chairman
Sydney
30th October, 1957


The Man on the Land
needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who will conserve
his Estate for those whom, under his Will, he desires to benefit
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY has for over sixty-five
years successfully managed country estates. The Company’s
extensive organisation and wide experience ensures that the
interests of its clients will receive every safeguard attention.
Ensure for your
Estate the benefit of
this experience and
obtain for your
beneficiaries the pro-
tection of capital
and assets exceeding
£1,000,000.
SB
i a>
Sl* \^'y*V l i
?■• tV
Write for a free explanatory booklet .
board of directors*
G. B. Kater {Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
{Vice-Chairman).
/. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming. C. H. Locke .
Lieut.-General Sir John Northcoit ,
K.C.M.G. , K.C.V.0., C.B.
Manager: F. R. Garland.
Assistant Manager: M. A. Foulchet .
Secretary : P. H. Andrews.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O'Connell St., Sydney
Associate Company*
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
FT. 11 ST? I>>
The WILDCAL
COLUMN
Davis Gelatine Consolidated, Ltd.
TCJRST listed in 1955, scrip in Davis
Gelatine has been well supported on
Australian ’Changes over the past two
years, the f.-p. £1 ords. currently bringing
395. 6d., to return buyers at that price
a modest £4 Is. Od. p.c. from an 8 p.c.
div.
The foundations of the Davis Gelatine
organisation were laid in 1881 with the
establishment of a small glue-factory in
Auckland, N.Z. Production of gelatine
was begun in 1913, the original co., after
meeting local requirements, developing
e’xport markets in Australia and Canada.
In 1917 the first Australian factory was
erected (in Sydney), and in subsequent
years subsidiaries were formed to handle
distribution of the co.’s products in
Canada, South Africa and the United
Kingdom. A 70 p.c. share-interest was
obtained in South Africa’s sole gelatine-
producing co. in 1951, and the organisa-
tion now occupies a dominating position
in the gelatine industries of Australia,
N.Z. and South Africa, enjoying in
addition a considerable export trade.
As well as edible gelatine, used in
numerous foodstuffs and domestic pre-
parations, the co. also turns out industrial
gelatine, agar (vegetable-gelatine), glue
and adhesives, with oil, tallow, bone-
filter-material and fertiliser being
produced as readily saleable by-products.
Davis Gelatine Consolidated, Ltd.,
was formed as a holding co. in 1955,
300,000 £1 ords. being offered to the
public at par to bring paid capital to
£1,500,000, all in ords.
A well-covered 8 p.c. div. (tax-free in
1956) has been paid from earnings of
each of the last two terms, and, despite
the conservative book-value of fixed
assets, accounts at June 30 last show
30s. 4d. in net tangible assets for each
£ of paid capital. Tax-free funds were
drawn on for 59.4 p.c. of last term’s
distribution, but are now practically
exhausted.
Group turnover rose by approximately
8 p.c, last term to a record but undisclosed
figure, all subsidiary cos. operating
profitably over the year. The organisa-
tion as a whole turned in a net profit of
£256,483 (up £14,667), after deducting the
share applicable to minority shareholders
and providing £174,583 (down £1802) for
taxation at current rates and £78,610 (up
£18,334) for depreciation:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. t Dividends serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £94)7 .. .. 248,777
1955. .298,802 298,802 547,579
Profit sale assets, £826 . . . . 548,405
Leas adjustments capital reserve, £2290 546,115
1956. .241,816 8 p.c. = 120,000 121,816 667,931
Profit sale assets, £854 .. .. 668,785
To prov’n long-service leave, £31,946 636,839
Reduction intangibles, £1372 .. .. 638,211
Unexplained addition, £1470 .. 639,681
1957. .256,483 8 p.c. = 120,000 136,483 776,164-
The div. took less than half of the earn-
ings, which represented a return of 17 p.c.
on share-capital, following 16.1 p.c. and
19.9 p.c. in 1956 and 1955 respectively.
To bring earlier provisions for long-
service leave up to the estimated liability
(£53,417) an amount of £31,946 was trans-
ferred from reserves.
Substantial additions to the Botany
(Sydney) plant w'ere completed during the
year to June 30 last, a separate division
being established for the production of
synthetic-resin adhesives to the formulae
of a leading U.S. manufacturer. A large
section of the Christchurch (N.Z.) factory
was also reconstructed, the cost-less-
depreciation value of fixed assets rising
by a net £217,520.
Debentures, amounting to £135,198,
issued by a subsidiary were redeemed
during the year, and to finance the capital-
expenditure and higher stocks (up
£165,029) and book-debts (up £66,872),
it was necessary to reduce holdings of
cash and bonds by £374,308 and borrow
a further £63,7i29 from the bank. Slipping
by £95,405 the term, working-capital
still appears quite adequate at £1,064,648:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1955. : 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £1,560,000 £1,500,000 £1,500,000
Reserves .. .. 547,579 667,931 776,164
Ontside interests.. 95,281 107,029 120,955
Debentures .'. 135,909 135,198
Overdraft .. 28,270 37,791 101,520
Creditors .. .. 262,562 276,162 269,840
Prov. long-service
leave, etc. .. 15,061 19.204 56,820
Tax provision .. 221,918 212,109 195,620
Final div. .. 75,000 75,000
£2,806,580 £3,030,424 £3,095,919
Fixed assets .. 1,042,427 1,109,640 1,327,160
Investments .. 26,256 26,790 17,172
Stock .. .. 765,905 879,532 1,044,561
Debtors .. .. 351,905 416,626 483,498
Cash, bonds, etc... 620,057- 597,836 223,528
£2,806,580 £3,030,424 £3,095,919
The board states that negotiations
aimed at widening the group’s “sphere of
influence and trade” are now in progress,
sales for the first four months of the
current year being “comparable” with
those of the corresponding period last
term. >
Rocla Pipes, Ltd.
A MANUFACTURER of reinforced-
concrete pipes and other concrete
products, Rocla Pipes, Ltd., has come
a long way in the last eight or nine
years, net earnings increasing by over
300 p.c. since 1951. The second distribu-
tion of gift-scrip in less than three years
—a one-for-10 issue financed by capi-
talising existing, reserves—will be made
to shareholders on the books at November
30 next.
The development of new production
techniques, coupled with a strong demand
for concrete pipes (mainly for use in
extensions to water-supply, sewerage and
drainage systems) has contributed to
Rocla’s success, while the export of
equipment designed by the co. and
royalties from licensees in various parts
of the world have also helped to swell
earnings.
The main manufacturing unit is located
at Springvale (Melbourne), but over a
dozen plants have been established in
the three eastern States and South Aus-
tralia, pipes required under a contract
with the Lower Hutt Drainage Board
being supplied from a plant at Welling-
ton, N.Z. A South African offshoot in


which the co. holds a 50 p.c. interest was
formed in 1956 and commenced produc-
tion last term.
To finance the increasing volume of
new business and the initial development
of the South African co., 106,457 £1 ords.
were issued at par last March in the
proportion of one new share for every
four held. Paid capital, all in ords., will
total £541,214 on completion of the forth-
coming bonus-issue. There has been no
difficulty in paying a 15 p.c. div. from
earnings in each of the past five years,
lifting the average rate over the last
decade to 12.4 p.c.
Contracts obtained during the year to
June 30 last included one for
£1,100,000 (involving the construction of
a 30-mile pipeline for the N.S.W. Govern-
ment), sales for the term being “sub-
stantially above” all previous records.
Output rose by 15 p.c. (volume), and
although increases in the cost of steel,
cement and labor were absorbed, earnings
increased by 23.8 p.c., partly as a result
of large exports of plant, which, the
board warns, “are unlikely to be a regular
feature of future operations”:
To Re- Re-
June Profit. Dividend. " serves, serves.
30, £ £ £ £
1952 .. 65,870 124 p.c. = 32,259 33,611 69,690
Share premiums, £B7B .. .. 70,563
Profit sale patents, £26,685 .. .. 97,248
1953 .. 85,119 15 p.c. = 42,904 42,215 139,463
1954 . . 87,482 15 „ ~ 44,836 42,646 182,109
Assets revalued, £97,658 . . . . 279,767
Reserve capitalised, £53,984 ... . . 225,783
1955 .. 87,864 15 p.c. = 47,797 40,067 265,850
Proceeds sale patents, £16,808 .. 282,(158
Share premiums, £10,849 .. .. 293.507
Intangibles written-off, £5OOO .. 288,507
Profit sale assets, £136 .. .. .. 288,643
1956 .. 100,209 15 p.c. = 57,834 42,375 331,018
1957 .. l5 „ ~61,826 62,299 393,317
Representing a return of 30.2 p.c. on
average share-capital, as against 25.9,
23.2 and 29.2 p.c. back to 1954—net
profit advanced by £23,916 to £124,125
after providing £103,000 (up £20,000), for
taxation and making a particularly heavy
charge for depreciation (£55,000, up
£20,000). A 15 p.c. div. on capital as it
will stand at the end of this month would
call for £Bl,lBl, or £42,944 less than last
term’s effort.
Introduced late in the term, fresh
capital, with undistributed profits, pro-
vided over half the funds needed for last
year’s all-round expansion, the balance
coming from short - term deposits
(£30,085) and the bank (£29,988), while
the amount owing to creditors increased
by £95,924; At balance-date current assets
exceeded current liabilities by £374 940
(up £101,083):
1955. 1956. 1937
Paid capital .. £377,886 £385,556 £492 013
Reserves .. .. 265,850 331,018 393.317
Overdraft .. .. 71,630 83,827 113,815
Deposits .... 30,085
Creditors, etc. .. 129,172 159,014 254 938
Tax provision . . 52,139 83,137 103,285
Final div. .. 25,380 28.917 32,909
£922,057 £1,071,469 £1,420,362
Land, buildings .. 148,636 187,091 192 273
Plant, etc. .. _ 205,885 .238,818 269,931
Shares Rocia Africa 16,808 48,186
Stocks, etc.* .. 268,420 286,762 453,986
Debtors, etc. .. 274,744 320,714 412 994
Cash, etc. . „ 19,372 21,276 42’992
Intangibles .. 5,000 H
£922,057 £1,071,469 £1.420,362
* Less advance on contract, £104,780 at 30/6/’57.
Higher book-debts (up £92,280) and
stock, etc. (up £167,224), reflect the
growing volume of business handled by
the co., new plant accounting for most
of the £36,295 increase in the book-value
of fixed assets (revalued in 1955). A
further 25,000 £1 (S.A.) ords. were taken
up in Rocia Pipes (Africa) Pty. during
the year, bringing the total investment to
£48,186.
With a steady increase in population a
strong demand for the co.’s main products
seems likely to continue, and a “consider-
able” quantity of work was in hand at
the beginning of the current term. First
royalties on pipes produced in Pakistan
are expected this year.
Including the bonus-scrip the f.-p. £1
ords. have a net tangible backing of
325. 9d.,' buyers at 625. 6d. cum div.
obtaining an effective return of £5 ss. 7d.
from a 15 p.c. div.
Gordon Edgell & Sons (N.S.W.)
A FTER the period of pace-at-a-time
expansion which followed the co.’s
war-time reorganisation, Gorden Edgell
and Sons has shown a quickening of
tempo, in the past three years earnings
more than doubling to last term’s peak of
£159,865:
Pref. To Re- Re
June Profit. 65 p.c. Ord. serves, sen es.
80, £ £ £ £ £
1950.. 69,607 3900 8 p.c. = 27,200 38,507 210.150
1951.. 70,411 3900 8 „ „ 27,200 39,311 249,461
Excess tax provision, £12,500 .. 261,961
Share premiums, £32,538 .. .. 294,499
1952. . 51,263 3900 .64 p.c. = 26,552 20,811 315,310
Capital profits, £12,219 .. .. 327,529
1953.. 38,288 3900 6£ p.c. = 31,005 3,383 330,912
1954.. 78,730 3900 8 ~ „ 38,160 36,670 367,582
Share premiums, £2550 .. .-. 370.132
Capital profit, £5019 . . ~ .. 375,151
,1955.. 89,130 3900 8 p.c. = 41,878 43,352 418,503
Capital profit, £361 .. .. .. 418,864
Share premiums, £l5OO .. .. 420,364
1956. .154,045 3900 10 p.c. = 65,295 84,850 505,214
Capital profit, £2839 .. . .. .. 508.053
Share premiums, £2500 .. .. 510,553
1957. .159,865 3900 10 p.c. = 66,300 89,665 600,218
Calculated after allowing an ample
£130,650 taxation provision and £78,638
for depreciation, the net profit more than
adequately covered the ord. and pref.
divs., leaving £89.665 as a very useful
addition to reserves at a time when sub-
stantial additional capital is required.
The earning-power of average ord.
capital has also been increasing steadily,
comparative percentages for the last five
years being 7.2 (1953), 16.5, 16.3, 22.9
and 23.5 (1957).
In its dual role of primary-producer
and food-processor, Gordon Edgell has
canneries and ancillary agricultural
stations at three main centres —Bathurst
and Cowra (N.S.W.) and Devonport
(Tas.). During the term modernisation
and enlargement of the Devonport estab-
lishment was completed at a cost originally
estimated around the £83,000-mark. This
centre is mainly concerned with the pro-
duction of green peas, Edgell’s most im-
portant single item, and its increased
capacity further the co.'s
activities, mitigating the effects of adverse
seasons. Work is also proceeding on both
N.S.W. canneries, and, with the construc-
tion of pea-vining stations at Blayney and
Mudgee, in the same State, the estimated
final cost of these extensions is £66,000.
Well-sited and irrigated from reliable
local water-supplies, the co.’s own farms
last term produced crops which were
generally prolific and of good quality,
although heavy rain in October resulted
in light yields of asparagus and early
peas. Later losses in mainland pea-crops,
due to the prevailing dry spell, were com-*
pensated by an excellent yield in
Tasmania.
On the selling side, Gordon Edgell is
rapidly exploiting the potential of its
quick-frozen products which are chan«
nelled through the exclusive agency of
Birds Eye Foods (Aust.) Pty., a Unilever
subsidiary, and during the year these
sales virtually doubled.
Two major share-issues within the last
three years have brought in.most of the
additional capital needed to further the
co.’s growth ; a one-for-three issue of
159,000 £1 ords. at par in March, 1955,
and a one-for-four issue of 165,750 ords.
at par last June, which is now fully
subscribed.
Last term a Sydney mushroom-spawn
laboratory was bought, 5000 £1 ords.
being issued to the vendors at a premium
of 10s. a share as part-consideration.
With the latest issue, paid-up share-
capital will now stand at £888,750:
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref £60,000 £60,000 £60,000
Ord. *. . .. 637,849 658.000 775,866*
Reserves . . .. 418,503 505,214 600,218
Mortgage .. 250,000 229,000 300,000
Overdraft .. 148,817 390,491
Creditors, etc. . . 145,004 131,898 181,357
Tax provision .. 54,593 126.672 130,650
Final dhs. .. 27,133 41,430 35,100
£1,593,082 £1,901,031 £2,473,082
Freeholds .. 474,865 546,934 OPI
Plant . . .. 398,572 427,144 J 01
Stocks .. .. 486,496 713,919 1,219,132 .
Debtors . . .. 167,770 212,190 218,231
Cash, etc. 65,379 808 1,058
£1,593,082 £1,901,031 £2,473,682
* Includes application money, £112,806.
Correlative with the heavy increase in
stocks held (£1,219,132, up £505,183) at
the end of June, bank-overdraft jumped
by £241,674 to £390,491 and trade and
other creditors were also up £49,459,
while debtors showed little change. The
excess of current assets (£1,425,521, up
£511,193) over current liabilities (£737,598,
up £288,781) gives a working-capital of
£687,923, solid enough, despite the heavy
stock-holding, which could prove to be
a very good asset if the unfavorable
season forecast for the current term
materialises.
An additional mortgage-loan during the
term brought long-term liabilities to
£300,000.
Sharemarket interest in Gordon Edgell
and Sons continues to be well-maintained,
the £1 ords., convincingly supported by a
net tangible asset backing of 345. 6d.
(taking new-issue scrip into account),
currently changing hands at 325. 3d., to
return 6.2 p.c.
While in the past Edgell’s sales-
potential has tended to outrun its produc-
tive-capacity, some slackening in demand
was noticed in the last three months of
the term, and the co.’s immediate policy
is to curtail expansion and concentrate
on sales-promotion, which may attenuate
future profit-margins. In the long-run,
however, the changes in selling-techniques
introduced by the supermarket, and the
predilection of the working-housewife
for time-saving packaged foods, should
offer the co. an expanding market for an
ever-widening range of products.


Lake view and star,
LIMITED
• (Incorporated in England)
FINAL DIVIDEND NO. 85
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that
the Directors have decided to recom-
mend at the Annual General Meeting
of the Company to be held on
December 19, 1957, payment of a
FINAL DIVIDEND of ONE
SHILLING AND NINEPENCE per
share sterling in respect of the year
ended June 30, 1957, less United
Kingdom Income Tax at EIGHT
SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE in
the £. (EIGHT DECIMAL POINT
NINE TWO FIVE PENCE per
share), the net amount of Dividend
being ONE SHILLING DECIMAL
POINT NOUGHT SEVEN FIVE
PENCE per share sterling.
Subject to confirmation at the
Annual General Meeting the Divi-
dend will be paid on December 20,
1957, to all shareholders registered
on the books of the Company at the
close of business on NOVEMBER
18, 1957.
The Transfer Books will be closed
from NOVEMBER 19 to 21, 1957,
both days inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of Divi-
dend will be calculated at the rate
of Exchange ruling on November 18,
1957.
For LAKE VIEW AND STAR
LIMITED
R. J. AGNEW,
ATTORNEY
FIMISTON,
November 8, 1957.
m
>
How
about nuj
Urt
L ASSURANCE x
Remind Dad about • Child'*
Advancement Policy. A small premium wHI 100k ffl after
my education or launch me on a career.
"The Metropolitan" hat a number of suitable policies.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.«
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY. BW 6061
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant super-
vision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
1« Spring Street, SYDNEY - - - BU 3445
JOB Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - 510 4081
Mt. Morgan, Ltd.
V/fT. MORGAN, LTD., sold
•***- considerably more copper
last term than the amount
actually extracted from ore
won during the year, giving the
co. the “very fair profit” fore-
cast by the chairman some
months ago. Nevertheless,
abnormally low grades, shrink-
ing copper prices and a
reduction in mill-throughput
made operations at the open-
cut (Mt. Morgan, Q.) far less
profitable than they had been
in the two preceding terms.
Improved metallurgical tech-
niques enabled the satisfactory
treatment of refractory slime-
concentrates produced in
previous years, and the board
claims that the bulk of the
profit (cafcul a ted on an
average-price basis) came from
smelting these and other con-
centrates cm hand at the
beginning of the term.
To keep expenditure more
in iine with the lower income,
advance removal of overburden
on the uppermost benches was
halted, 1,508,014 tons going to
the dumps, compared with
2,512,736 tons in the preceding
term. As a result the ratio of
overburden removed to ore
mined (743,321 tons, down
98,185 tons) was more favorable
at 2.02 to 1, as against 2.98 to 1
in the 1955-56 term:
Sulphide
Waste Ore , Assay ,
June, Discarded, Treated, Gold, Copper,
Tons. Tons. Dvvt. p.c.
1953. .2,521,004 834,200 2.45 0.92
1954. .2,878,046 824,050 3.02 0.96
1955. .2,675,298 930,500 2.14 0.87
1956. .2,512,736 829,800 1.78 0.93
1957. .1,508,014 738,300 1.60 0.81
There is little opportunity for
selective mining in an open-
cut, and the co. was unfortunate
in striking a patch of extremely
low-grade ore during a year of
falling copper prices, average
head grades dropping from
0.93 to 0.81 p.c. copper and
from I.7Bdwt. to I.6odwt. gold.
As a consequence of the lower
grades and smaller throughput,
mill production of copper-in-
concentrates fell by 1369 tons
to 5467 tons. (Values have
improved in the current term
and metal production is said
to be at a “satisfactory” level.)
Of the 6155 tons (down 533
tons) of blister copper which
came from the smelter, 858
tons was produced from con-
centrates stored at the com-
mencement of the term,
including 16,985 tons of slime
concentrates:
r Metal Content- N
Blister, Copper, Gold, Silver,
Tons. Tons. Oz. ' Oz.
1953 .. 6£37 6154 61,640 24,220
1954 .. 5474 5402 61,945 1.8,195
1955 .. 6765 6678 67,815 21,185
1956 .. 6688 6604 47,655 20,520
1957 .. 6155 6Q79 45,545 22,050
The depressed state of the
metals market has made even
more urgent the co.’s need to
find markets for its pyrites,
11,485 tons (down 43,965 tons)
of the sulphide being produced
last term of which only 8610
tons was sold.
The Federal Government
has attempted, by means of
bounty-payments, to encourage
the manufacture of* sulphuric
acid from locally - mined
pyrites but, as yet, its efforts
have met with only limited
success. Earlier this year the
limit placed on total bounty-
payments was removed and
provisions of the Sulphur
Bounty Act extended to cover
sulphuric acid manufactured
from indigenous materials other
than pyrites. Following this
move the board is investigating
the possible uses of waste gases
from the smelting plant which,
it claims, now have a “great
potential value,”
Ore-reserves at June 30 last
were down 727,000 tons at
15,000,000 tons, and included
an “appreciable quantity” of
marginal ore, the value of
which is dependent on the
development of a market for
pyrites.
Slocks of metal were reduced
by 23 p.C. (weight) over the
term, the co. selling 7383 tons
of copper (up 1236 tons) or
1304 tons more than the
smelter-output. The average
price realised, however, was
£368 per ton, as against £470
in the preceding term, revenue
from mine-products slipping by
£645,000 to approximately
£-,755,000:
T . „ A n- rd *
Jne., Income. Exes.f Profit. Div.*
so p.c.
*6l 1,699,9.45 1,829,288 870,707 280,000
20 p.c. ,
’52 2,453,023 2,067,445 385,578 280,000
’53 2,658,043 2,210,017 448,026 280,000
’54 2,738,837 2,298,192 440,645 280,000
> 25 p.c.
’55 3,295,104 2,610,784 684,320 300,000
’56 3,4i0,342 2,828,809 581,533 28<f,odo
is p.c.
>57 2,755,000t2,369,9511395,049 210,000
* Piets, received 7 p.e. p.a. in addition.
f Includes depreciation and taxation, etc.
t Approximate figures.. '
To emphasise the effect of
lower prices and throughput on
earnings, the customary work-
ing-account has been replaced
in the published accounts by
a summary of the sources of
profit, the board attributing
£23,808 to the treatment of
ore mined during the year
(after charging depreciation,
£lOO,OOO, down £100,000),
£319,720 to the treatment of
concentrates obtained in earlier
and £114,291 to the
“reduction in metal stocks.”
From this total (£457,820)
£62,771 was deducted, repre-
senting the book-value of plant
written-off during the year,
to leave a net profit of
£395,049, a fall of £186,484.
In view of the
none-too-
promising outlook for the
current term, as well as the
, ’ , ,
lower net profit, the ord. div.-
rate was cut from 20 p.c. to
if
1 -’ P- c -
The book-value of the mine
, 106 V u r Acn
was written-up by £1,050,000
and a three-for-one bonus-
,ss 9 e made in 1952 after
diamond-drilling had disclosed
the sugarloaf extension of the
* *tu _ i r _
OIC-body. The SUgarloal OTC
has a high pyritic content and
its value is now affected by the
poor demand for pyrites. Paid
capital is in 2,800,000 f.-p. 10s.
ords. and 2,000,000 10s. 7 p.c.
prefs., the latter redeemable
over the 10 years to 1972, or
convertible into ords. in 1960
in the ratio of two ords. for
every three prefs.
At balance-date current
assets (including metal stocks,
£707,255, and stores, £705,550)


FOR A
RISK-FREE
INVESTMENT
with a High Net Return
* LOOK TO
COMMONWEALTH
UAHS! A
The advantages of a steady income and Government guaranteed repay-
ment of capital at full face value on maturity are further enhanced for
taxpaying holders of Commonwealth Securities by an Income Tax
rebate* of 2/- in each £1 of Commonwealth Loan interest included in
their taxable incomes. Lodge your application now through any bank,
savings bank, or stockbroker. You may subscribe by cash or by
instalments. * Not exceeding the amount of tax otherwise payable.
3V*% COMMONWEALTH SECURITIES
issued in 1941 and 1942, which matured and became due
for repayment or CONVERSION on NOVEMBER 15,1957
Holders of these securities are invited to convert them, through any
bank, savings bank, or stockbroker, into new Bonds or Inscribed Stock
on the terms offered for the Cash Loan now open.
YOU MAY SELECT FROM
jod |o panss|
siumndis %S
Maturing
February 15,
1967
February 15,
Minimum Subscription, £lO
4% SECURITIES
Issued at £99/-/- per cent yielding
£4.8-6%
(Approx.)
per
annum
I Maturing
May 15. 1960
Minimum Subscription £lOO
A
INVEST NOW
THE
NEW
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT IN ALL STATES
oy mu oniiiionwealth treasury.
305L2.113
totalled £1,591,461, exceeding
liabilities and the final div. by
£970,525.
With the copper-market over-
supplied, higher production can,
at the best, be only a short-
term counter to the decline in
earnings of copper-producers,
and in the industry generally
emphasis is now being placed
on greater efficiency rather
than production.
At 12s. 3d. the 10s. ords.
would return £l2 10s. p.c.
from a 15 p.c. div. or £8 6s. Bd.
p.c. if the rate were lowered to
10 p.c. The convertible prefs.
yield £7 7s. 4d. at 9s. 6d.
Mining Corp. (Aust.), N.L.
A FTER subscribing for
640,000 ss. ords. in Mining
Corp. last term, Pan-American
Ventures, Ltd. (Canada), and
Consolidated Gold Fields, Ltd.
(U.K.), have apparently
decided against exercising their
joint option to take up a further
128,000 shares at par.
A base-metal prospect not far
from the big Mt. Isa deposit
is the most interesting of the
two-year-old Mining Corp. s
various leases. Some low-
grade copper has been
encountered in the area, but
test-drilling has, so far, failed
to locate the richer copper and
lead-zinc ore sought by the co.
Two of thppe cobalt prospects
(Cambourne and Comstock, Q.)
are to be abandoned and
operations have been suspended
at the third, Mt. Cobalt (Q.),
where underground work wiil
be necessary to determine
indicated grades and tonnage.
The co. is also interested, with
South Alligator Uranium,
in a uranium lease at Hela-
fells (Q.). -
Expenditure on diamond-
drilling and prospecting
generally last term added up
to £58,033, administrative
expenses claiming another
£7071 and directors’ fees £736.
After allowing for sundry
income (£3737) and charging
£2767 for depreciation, the
prospecting account showed a
debit of £126,955, an increase
of £64,870 over the year.
Current assets, mainly short-
term investments, amounted to
£128,706, or £126,325 more
than all liabilities, at June 30
last. Paid 'capital, £377,300, is
subject to share discounts of
£63,000.
The f.-p. ss. shares sold last
week at 3s.


, MEN, TOO, CAN LEARN
SHORTHAND
IN TWO HOURS!
In a few short hours yon can be an expert shorthand writer!
Guaranteed Miracle Method the sensational Shorthand System that
swept America, enables men and women of all ages and all walks
of life to gain better positions and more pay.
The Quickest, Most Inexpensive System Ever Devised
You benefit immediately with Miracle Method —no old-fashioned
symbols to learn. Uses simple converted longhand which you
already know! We GUARANTEE jou will write good shorthand
in two hours and 120 w.p.m. in fifteen hours ! Full details can
be yours FREE and without obligation. WRITE NOW TO:—
Dept. 85, MIRACLE METHOD SHORTHAND,
Box 155, P. 0., North Sydney.
By Appointment
to H. M. King
JFrederik IX
By Appointment
to the late
King George VI
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Gustav VI Adolf
By Appointment
to H. M. the
Oueen of the
Netherlands
;, C*l4 4 |«| CUm MW*
CHERRY
till* f fCERIWC °COPEMM*«£*
alw
Cherry
Heering
.lines 1818 Denmark's
liqueur delight
for your after
dinner enjoymenf
(flff* M
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—SWIFT & MOORE PTY. LTD.
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
AT a dinner-party a while
ago I asked my neighbor,
then a senior master at a
famous public school (and now
about to become headmaster of
a grammar school) what he
thought about English as a
subject for a degree. “Not
much,” he replied ; “it makes
people into eccentrics.”
After all, a headmaster’s
prime duty is to make of every
pupil a good, useful and
successful citizen. And modern
life, especially business life,
calls for discipline, orthodoxy
and personality (e.g., mental
stamina and the ability to mix).
There are, too, very compli-
cated selection procedures,
including psychological tests,
which weed out the misfits and
tend to favor the unexcep-
tional, intellectually at any
rate. (What kind of answer
does the man of affairs give to
such questions as “Are you
keen on literature or music?”
or “Do you daydream?”)
So, it seems, poets, authors,
dramatists even journalists
and critics—are a queer lot.
Individualistic, undisciplined,
outspoken, nonconformist, re-
bellious and, to crown all,
eccentric in appearance and
habits.
And what, it may well be
asked, is wrong with eccen-
tricity? Other spheres—the
board-room and conference-
chamber included—have their
“characters.” But personality
(of the kind needed for
advancement in a well-estab-
lished organisation) and idio-
syncratic quaintness are
obviously irreconcilable.
This notwithstanding, per-
haps there is still room for the
few who are eccentric enough
not to be frightened of being
dubbed eccentric —at least,
until the world becomes an
ant-hill.
Writers’ Cramp
As a base from which to
Wage a vituperative campaign
against class-consciousness, the
Establishment, upper- and
middle-class complacency and
philistinism, Royal Family
idolatry and all the venerated
traditions, Sloane Square would
seem to be an incongruous
choice. It just happened that
way because the English Stage
Society operates from the
Royal Court Theatre. The
principal object of this society
is to find new indigenous play-
wrights and put them on the
map. Its first and most notable
discovery was John Osborne,
whose two plays “Look Back
in Anger” and. “The Enter-
tainer” are making fortunes
for both parties.
Osborne has something in
common with both the young
Noel Coward and H. G. Wells.
Like Coward, he has great
natural talent and delights in
shocking his audiences. He
appears to share the same
prejudices that Wells was
unable to shake off during his
long life —horror of poverty,
suspicion of wealth and anti-
pathy towards religion and
Royalty.
That other young men and
women, smarting from
reformist fervor or intellectual
champing, should mass behind
him is natural and a healthy
antidote to cultural wishy-
washiness.
But their manifesto, “Declara-
tion,” was doubly unfortunate.
The several contributions are
vague, confused and do not
always make sense. And the
ceremonial send-off was a flop
because at the last minute the
English Stage Society refused
to allow them to use the Royal
Court Theatre. It did not wish
'its name to be associated with
the venture.
Since the society is extremely
broadminded* the directors’
decision can only have been
reached after careful delibera-
tion and some embarrassment,
particularly as the Earls of
Harewood and Bessborough,
and others who might qualify
for “Establishment,” are on the
board. This apparent snub,
coming from the most
enlightened patron of the arts
of recent years, besides aliena-
ting some of their followers,
must have severely shaken the
intellectual rebels.
Mime AH the Time
Marcel Marceau is a 34-
year-old Alsatian who has the
build of a Rugger forward, the
grace and precision of a
ballerina and the artistry of a
sculptor. He is now at the
Cambridge Theatre with his
own small company prepara-
tory to a tour of the U.S.A.
and Canada in a repertory that
consists entirely of the classic
art of mime.
That he stands paramount in
this immensely difficult art-
form soon becomes clear from
the standard of performance of
his fellows, the best of whom
no more than approach his
dazzling technique. Conse-
quently, the so-called “mimo-
dramas” seem overlong and
lacking in punch.
But his own “Pantomimes
of Style” are remarkable.
Whether as a woman trying on
clothes in a dress-shop, as a
statue which descends from its
pedestal in a public garden to
impersonate a score of regular
habitues, or as his own
creation, Bip, Marceau’s simu-
lation is uncanny. Not onfy
does he people the entire stage
with diverse and quickly-
recognisable types but by
muscular control he also con-
trives to suggest their surround-
ings. Bip is a Chaplinesque
Pierrot who battles, not always
successfully, against worldly
hazards and who is seen trying
to persuade a lion to jump
through a hoop, chasing—and
becoming a butterfly and
alternating, with quite astound-
sleight of posture, between
David and Goliath,
The evening might be more
hilarious if the performers
played down a little, circus
fashion, but they steadfastly,
and no doubt worthily, refuse
to prostitute their art.


Scientists Sound-off
WHEN it is considered that one of the
strongest arguments put forward by
leading Australian scientists in their cam-
paign to awaken the community to the
need for inducing more youths to enter
the professions of science and engineer-
ing is the spectacular strides made by
Russia in that field, it is a little ironic,
though altogether fitting, that the biggest
fillip to their case has probably been given
by the Russians themselves.
The arguments put forward by Pro-
fessors Messel, Oliphant and others have
no doubt been having a steady and cumu-
lative effect on Governments and private
industry. But success on the scale the
professors want calls for more than that —
it demands a change of attitude on the
part of the whole community.
The Australian scientist lives in a kind
of halfway world. In academic circles
there is a tendency for those whose
interest and attainments are in the field of
arts and letters to regard him as a kind of-
not-so-superior tradesman. On the other
hand a large section of the general public
looks upon him as a learned crank, quite
out of touch with everyday affairs. Most
Australian universities are- controlled by
humanities men who are naturally predis-
posed towards their own faculties. What
is even more important is that most head-
masters of high school and private
secondary schools are also humanities
men. When it comes to steer-
ing bright children towards a scientific
career their attitude is, at the best,
negative.
Status and Rewards
The attitude of the general public may
be exemplified by the experience of a
Sydney woman who recently mentioned
to an acquaintance that her son had begun
studying for an engineering degree. Said
the other woman, “Oh, not engineering,
dear. Why don’t you put him into a clean
profession, like medicine? A doctor’s got
so much more status, you know. And
there’s more money in it.”
Leaving cleanness out of it and the
question whether a lad should be “put”
into a profession he doesn’t want, she was
quite right about status and money, as a
recent survey taken by Melbourne Uni-
versity showed. According to the Mel-
bourne survey doctors and lawyers, as a
class, had the highest incomes among pro-
fessional men —and that is a reflection of
their status in the eyes of the community.
In the long-run a community pays its
servants what it thinks they deserve, and
it is obvious that the com-
munity is most concerned with keeping
its body in good health and its legal
affairs in good order —and it pays
accordingly. Unless the scientists and
engineers can convince the com-
munity that it needs them as much as
it needs doctors and lawyers, they will
never get what they consider their just
deserts. What is more important, they will
never recruit newcomers to their ranks in
the numbers they feel are needed for the
good of the country.
For that reason the two sputniks may
have done more for Australian scientists,
present and future, than they could
possibly have done for themselves. The
average person isn’t very impressed by
facts and figures if their lesson runs
counter to his own preconceived ideas.
But the Russian earth-satellites are a
moving-picture anyone can understand.
“Tragically Hindered”
The report of the Australian Academy
of Science, presented to the Prime
Minister last week, has been a year in pre-
paration, but it could hardly have been
completed at a more opportune time. It
warns the Government that this country’s
most serious shortage is in scientists and
technologists and that unless something
drastic is done to remedy it the develop-
ment of Australia will be “tragically
hindered” and living-standards lowered.
The Academy urges the Federal
Government to set up a committee of
inquiry to report on
1. The state of development of science and
technology in 1 elation to present and
future needs.
2. Methods of overcoming difficulties such
as manpower shortages.
3. Incentives to choose science or tech-
nology as a career.
4. The possibility of a migration plan for
scientists and engineers.
5. The state of teaching of science and
mathematics in secondary schools.
6. The adequacy of Australian industry
to make full use of Australian discovery
and invention.
Emphasising that Australia produces, in
proportion to population, only half as
many scientists as Britain or Canada,
between a quarter and a third as many as
America and only a quarter as many as
Russia, the report says that many of these
drift to other countries—between 1954
and 1956 about 50 chemists and metallur-
gists a year were thus lost, despite the fact
that Australia’s population increased by
migration by about 250,000 in that period.
Realising that the proposed inquiry
would take some time, during which the
position would further deteriorate, the
report recommends that immediate steps
be taken to
1. Increase the proportion of science enrol-
ments at universities by 50 per cent.
2. Reduce failure-rate among first-degree
students.
3. Increase at least threefold the proportion
of graduates proceeding to the Ph.D.
degree.
4. Attract to teaching more graduates with
high academic degrees, by fostering
recognition of the importance of
mathematics and science teaching.
5. Improve university facilities for teaching
science.
6. Make provision for increasing numbers
of students at university level ; extend
existing universities and set up new ones.
7. Provide adequate facilities for science and
engineering graduates in universities and
Government institutions where there is a
serious loss of efficiency through lack of
adequate equipment.
In general comment the report says that
the Australian philosophy has favored
a trend towards equalisation in social
conditions and that consequently margins
for skill, enterprise and energy are less
here than in most countries. “The
Academy does not wish to criticise this
trend, but it has a duty to direct attention
to certain consequences.” The conse-
quences are, of course, a shortage of
trained men, which must be reflected in
a fall in productivity and lowered living-
standards.
The report puts it mildly. If the
Academy really believes what it is preach-
ing, it should criticise the trend towards
equalisation. Its whole case is based on
the belief that skill and ability must be
paid for and its trump-card is that even
the Workers’ Fatherland has been
forced to recognise this and, in
so doing, has secured remarkable results.
Margins for Skill
The Academy naturally does not want
to intrude into politics, but the same trend
towards equalisation has been commented
on in the Federal Arbitration Court when
margins for skill have been under con-
sideration. For several years after the war
the skilled tradesman saw his advantage
over the unskilled worker whittled away
with each successive increase in the basic
wage, with the result that the incentive for
lads leaving school to become apprenticed
to a trade became less and less.
To many youngsters it just didn’t make
sense accepting several years of low-wage
apprenticeship when unskilled jobs at
high wages were available for the asking.
Trade-union policy, through the A.C.T.U.,
gave lip-service to skill, but under the
influence of the mass-vote of its unskilled
majority pursued a policy of higher
margins for all.
The Arbitration Court in its margins
judgment in Jvlovember, 1954, said,
Our purpose in prescribing new and higher
margins for the skilled employees in this
award has been to restore to some extent
their marginal status in relation to the
unskilled. It is obvious that to give the
same proportionate increase of existing mar-
gins to the unskilled as to the skilled would,
generally speaking, destroy that purpose.
Although the court regarded this as
“obvious” and held that no case had been
made out for an increase in the margins
of semi-skilled and unskilled workers the
A.C.T.U. and the A.L.P. continued to
campaign for “wage-justice” for these
classes of workers.
The “equalisation” of which the
Academy speaks is really the policy of the
Labor party, which represents roughly
half the electors, including the majority of
the unskilled workers. It is significant that
this pandering to the unskilled has always
received the support of the Australian
Communist party and Red-controlled
trade-unions, although it is the reverse of
the pcflicy practised in Russia.
The report of the Academy of Science
is now being studied by the Federal
Government. There is reason to hope
that, thanks to the sputniks, it will be
given higher priority and a more favorable
reception than would have been the case
even a few months ago.


REVOLUTIONARY NEW
Multi-purpose Grease
resists heat, cold, water, rust and corrosion!
.
■
/-■; r : ';
■mn
1111
& ;
n
m
'
-;:v. '
. :
ill
:
PP*
■
mm
Pumps freely after 36 hours at —2°F. — still stable after 48 hours in boiling water!
Q3b
jsodMnd-mnw
EHijm.'i'ia
■ ■
lOdWb
«MO
„ m f ®
Here’s the new red wonder grease that’s so
tough ... so versatile it practically eliminates the
need for a wide range of lubricants in industrial and
mobile equipment.
Ampoi Multi-purpose Grease provides these out-*
standing advantages:
0 Complete protection—stays in bearings longer.
0 Prevents misapplication of lubricants.
0 Maintenance and store-keeping simplified minimum
dispensing equipment.
£ Pumps freely even at low temperatures.
Coloured RED for positive identification
AMPOI
MULTI-
PURPOSE
GREASE
ONE grease • • • in place of many
• • •


Pearls before a Tortoise
By STUART MCDONALD
PAUL ROEDER admitted
no fear of consequences
when he carried gems.
He talked freely.
“In between buying pearl-
shell and trochus and beche-
de-mer,” he boasted, “I’ve
been buying and selling gems,
especially pearls, for twenty
years, and carrying them
about with me. And I’ve never
lost one ; and I’ve never been
in any physical danger.”
“But haven’t any attempts
been made to steal them?”
asked the platinum-haired
girl (Miss Guilder) opposite
to him at one of the hotel
dining-tables.
“A couple of times I’ve
been bothered,” Roe d e r
admitted. “But the thieves
haven’t shown much ingenuity
and have been arrested. This
talk of the clever criminal is
all hooey. They may have some
clever ones in London or New
York, or Chicago. But I’ve
never met one. , In any case,
everybody knows . everyone
else in the Far North. Take
this place, for instance. A pearl
thief couldn’t bring off a
robbery here; he'd be picked
up immediately. In a big city
he could disappear; there’s
safety in numbers, perhaps.”
“You may have been lucky,”
j observed.
~,„ . , ,
1 m not so lucky, retorted
Roeder. “But I’m not careless,
that’s all. I just take ordinary
precautions. Of course I don’t
go about dark lanes with a
pocketful of gems. Nor do I
leave them lying about to be
picked up.”
“What do you do with them,
Mr. Roeder?” asked the plati-
num-blonde, with great simpli-
city. And then, when he
didn’t answer, she giggled and
put her hand to her mouth,
and everybody laughed.
“Of course,” agreed the be-
spectacled young man,
Smeathe, who sat beside her,
“people who look for trouble
usually fall in.” He was pale
and slight, fair-haired, but
with a sparse thatch. He was
not impressive until he spoke,
when you realised that he was
no shrinking violet. His voice
was sharp, had an edge to it;
and he spoke like a man of
the world.
“Take my own experience,”
Smealhe continued. “I’ve been
travelling all over Australasia
for a jewellery firm. In my
attache-case I’ve carried as
much as a thousand-pounds
value, and more, of jevvcls and
mountings. My boss told me
when I first went out: ‘Never
act as though your case con-
tained anything extremely
valuable. If you take it into a
train with you place it in a
rack or at your side. Don't
show that you are anxious
about it or adopt noticeable
precautions. You’ll only draw
attention to it.’ I followed
that advice, and I’ve never
been bothered by thieves.”
“And have you given up
travelling in that line?” asked
Roeder, his dark, prominent
eyes shining. He had a passion
for handling gems and
jewellery. '
“No. But I am taking a few
days’ holiday here,” replied the
young man, and by the tone of
his voice he gave an impression
of caution. And then he spoke
with more freedom. “I came
to meet my fiancee,” he nodded
towards Miss Guilder.
The lady smirked and
mustered something like a
blush, although it was an effort.
She was a handsome girl, but
hard. Although this impression
was probably given, I thought,
by the meticulous sleekness of
her platinum-hued head. She
was holidaying, too, she said ;
taking her annual leave from a
merchant’s office in Towers-
ville. The swish of the palms,
the ozone from the Pacific and
the coral-pool atmosphere of
Rosswell attracted many such
visitors.
\II7HEN the fair-haired young
couple went upstairs
towards their rooms, it was
noticeable that the young man
carried an attache-case, and
that he didn’t handle it
casually; rather did he hold it


with every indication that its
contents were of great value.
This was not lost on Paul
Roeder. He was a big man ;
dark, fat, oily. His greedy
eyes followed the young man
and his girl as they went up
the stairs. He had plenty of
his own ; but he must 'covet
another man’s goods the
blonde Miss Guilder included.
The woman looked back as
she paused on the first stair-
landing, and her eyes beamed
„out an invitation. Not to me,
but to Roeder.
I wondered at this. Roeder
was not all that handsome.
And her fiance, although he
seemed a brittle type, at least
had youth on his side, while
she herself, beneath the plati-
num veneer, had quite a deal of
physical charm that could
command admiration among
the younger generation.
“What are you interested in
most, Mr. Roeder?” I asked.
“Is it the girl or the attache-
case? I’ll bet you could be
happy with either, eh!”
He turned and scowled at,
me.
“Now look, Paul,” I .said,
getting matey. “How about
giving me a little of your time?
I have something I want to
show you.”
“Ah!” he said, his eyes
lighting up again. “My room.
Have a cigar.”
He showed his teeth, but not
with pleasure, bit the end from
his cigar and spat it out in the
hallway.
I showed him my pearls in
his room. He sat on a sea-
grass chair and the gems were
spread on a black velvet cloth
on the bed.
“Where did you get ’em?”
he asked, lowering hS eyelids
to disguise the admiration
shining from his eyes.
“Never mind ; I got ’em,” I
said. “I don’t ask you where
you get your money from.”
“True,” he answered softly.
“But money talks.”
“Yours is not talking aloud
at the moment,” I snapped.
He was looking at the blue
one: it had a bluish tinge.
When I looked at that one I
was all for it. But the other
one, the satin-white, could be
just as fascinating. They both
gave out that soft glow, almost
a caress to the eyes, that
denoted the thoroughbred in
pearls.
I had been doing a job as
tender on one of the pearling-
boats up towards the tip of
Cape York, in between sessions
as a diver. The blue one had
stuck to my fingers one day
when I had helped to clean the
shell. I had often helped like
that; but it was the first time
I had struck a pearl worth a
small fortune.
The white One, too, was a
beauty. I had caught the
Torres boy on the boat attemp-
ting to hide it below deck. I
caught his wrist and whispered.
“You know the boss will break
your neck if I tell him.”
I gave him £2O for it. He
knew someone was losing on
the transaction. But for the
time being he had more money
than he was used to, and I had
the pearl.
I had some other pearls to
offer; but their value was
small beside that of the two
that Roeder was fondling. He
turned each one over and over
on the palm of his pudgy
hand ...
"D OEDER named a figure
that made me laugh with
rage. I doubled the sum. He in-
creased his offer by a hundred.
He bumped it up another
hundred, then two-hundred.
But I kept on laughing
until he came close to the
highest sum I could expect.
Finally I got him to split the
difference between his last
figure and mine.
It was a formula between
us. But never before had the
purchase-price been nearly so
large.
I was being robbed, of
course ; but I wouldn’t say too
much about that. Roeder
would sell for twice as much
as he was paying. But there
again, he was a safe buyer ; and
I was not too safe while l
carried the pearls. While I had
them no one had a clear title
to them, and down on the
waterfront a bullet or a knife
might decide their ownership.
Once Roeder held them they
became legal ; he was a
“respectable” pearl-buyer.
There was a hitch in the
transaction. He wasn’t carry-
ing enough money to make it
wholly a cash deal—he couldn’t
have been expected to know
beforehand the -size of the
deal, and the banks were shut.
I saw reason in this and
accepted a hundred in notes
and a crossed cheque for the
balance. I knew his cheques
didn’t bounce, although I
would have preferred cash.
Now I accepted the cigar and
had a drink with him. Then
I asked him to have one with
me, out of his bottle. We
parted for the night on good
terms. Comparatively, that is.
We knew what we thought of
each other.
Roeder had said he was
going to have an early night.
But it was a hot night. No
breeze came from the sea, and
there was a smell of dead coral,
such as comes to the nostrils
only on the very still nights. I
went down and walked along
the beach and tjien up the main
street of Rosswell. The Greek
cafe was open, and also the
town hotel, with its rambling
verandas and swinging doors.
I had a couple of drinks there ;
chatted with some of the
fellows I knew. Most of them
had worked on luggers from
the Hinchin brook to the
Torres; and some of them
were from boats then in the
harbor.
T CAME back along the
beach. A slight breeze
tempted me to keep walk-
ing towards the point, south.
But I grew tired and turned
back again, going up through
the sand to a rear entrance to
the hotel. The coral-tree, from
which the hotel took its name,
was in full leaf and threw a
huge shadow as the moon rose.
Somewhere in that shadow
was Atlas, the big tortoise.
Said to be from the Galapagos
Islands, Atlas had been
brought to the Coral-tree Hotel
by its original proprietor, a
retired ship’s captain. It was
of great size.
A dark mound underneath
the tree moved and lurched
forward clumsily . . , Atlas »it
was. i
The young man, Smeathe,
emerged from the side-door
and went towards the tree-
shadow. I was about to
detour round the kitchen
building; but I stood for a
moment.
Dimly, I could see Smeathe
• going towards the tortoise.
He bent down and held out
his hand. Yes, he was feeding
it. Plenty of the guests at the
hotel fed Atlas. But only one
extremely fond of shell-backed
reptiles would go out late at
night to do it. After all,
Atlas didn’t lack' food.
The best of the bedrooms
opened out on to a wide
veranda and faced the sea.
My room was at the end of
the veranda. Ready for bed,
I went out and sat on a canvas
chair for a final smoke.
I noted that Roeder was
speaking with the gilded
blonde. He was standing in
his doorway with a silk dress-
ing-gown over his pyjamas.
She was standing in the shaft
of light that streamed out from
his room. Her hair glistened
and, at the distance,/She looked
very attractive. But I’ve been
put through the hoops by
blondes; I think brunettes are
safer.
They were still talking when
I turned off the light and went
to bed. But I didn’t go to sleep
for some time. I heard the
conversation droning on, and
then it was muffled, as though
the girl had moved into the
room.
Young Smeathe had his room
next to mine. When he came
in he moved around a little and
then there was silen c e.
Probably he was listening to
the voices coming from
{Continued on page 56)
EVENING DANCE OF THE JABIRU
Older than Petrouchka; in a
vast room
More than a palace, still as a
museum,
Jabiru on his coral-red sinews
Stands in sky amid the lilies
of rose.
The long crook of-neck has
composed acceptance
Upon the shoulder’s sombre
green plumage;
The slagiron beak that returns
the figure
Described the angle of a mortal
view.
But glass dissolves; a real wind
sighs; he turns
To heaven. In motion the beak
lags open
As if to take a star when the
head is back
And so pends, and recovers
' „ with a clack.
There is no witness of the head
to this;
But below, time-laden, there
moves, remiss
To his respectful eyes, one
stilted leg
That brings its neighbor to a
thoughtful jig*;
Just one corner of an armless
quadrille,
High, stiffly. Plashed rings ride
through soft petals;
A part succeeding to deeper
waters
Blends and communes with the
growth of shadows.
Then, the sequence declared,
grave levity
Retires for the formal pose. As
the day,
Jabiru settles from discharge of
will.
The silence mirrors. He is very
still.
VICTORIA.
NOEL MACAINSH.


SUGAR—NO HANDS!
By R. S. PORTEOUS
AFTER his initial gasp of
astonishment at the
vastness of the new
bulk-sugar storage-shed
at Mackay (Q.) the visitor’s
next impression is one of
masterly inactivity. He must, he
fears, have chosen the wrong
day. No-whirring machinery, no
bustling activity of workmen;
in fact, the only man in sight
is the gatekeeper, who glances
at the visitor’s pass and gets
on with the absorbing business
of rolling a cigarette.
A door, dwarfed to a mere
mouse-hole by the towering
end wall of the storage-shed,
is shut and plainly marked “No
Admission.” Alongside the
main pier an bverseas ship is
made fast, but here again
there is no sign of the activity
one usually associates with
ship - loading no wharf -
laborers, no laden trucks or
rail-wagons, not even a solitary
derrick swung outboard. .
A few crew-members hope-
fully dangle fishing-lines over
the stern, and outside the galley
three others peel potatoes to
their own version of “Rock
and Roll.” There is no deck-
officer in sight to superintend
loading, and the huge gantry
seems to establish only a very
disinterested connection be-
tween ship and shore. The
solitary figure perched aloft
on the gantry’s latticed arm
might be studying the squawk
ing gulls . . .
Those were our impressions
as we went off in search of a
guide. ■ >
“Loading?” Mr. Burkitt, the
manager, said in answer to my
question. “Oh, yes, we started
on that ship at seven this
morning and we’ve put more
than 1800 tons into her
already.”
I glanced at my watch. The
time was five minutes past ten.
Eighteen-hundred tons in
three hours, 600 tons an hour
or 10 tons a minute! And the
plant was not working to its
full capacity. Compare this
with the old loading-rate for
bagged sugar, when the best
gangs averaged 15 tons an
hour. Taking stop-work meet-
ings and occasional showers of
rain into account, it took any-
thing from 12 days to three
weeks to load a 10,000-ton ship.
Now the same ship loads in
two days.
Under the manager’s guid-
ance the reason for the
apparent inactivity soon be-
comes apparent. Only 17 men
are employed at the Terminal,
and since raw sugar is apt to
absorb the moisture from the
sea-air everything is completely
enclosed and doors are kept
shut.
In the receiving-station a
truck stood on the weighbridge,
and behind it two others were
awaiting their turn. Each
carried two of the big silver-
painted boxes now so familiar
to the people of Mackay. Each
box holds six tons of raw
sugar. Two men unlatched a
door in the side of a box, an
overhead electric crane tipped
it gently, and a stream of sugar
tumbled down into the receiv-
ing hopper. On the other side
of the hopper a string of rail-
wagons was waiting to dis-
charge the sugar from its boxes.
Since seven mills consign their
output to the Terminal, all
sugar is weighed and recorded
as it arrives, and samples are
taken at regular intervals. The
rate of intake is 275 tons an
hour.
_ , , , ,
From the unloading-shed an
electrically -driven conveyor-
belt carries the sugar to the
top of the storage-shed and
lets it pour down on to the
stack. That stack, when we
entered the shed, looked
enormous. It towered above us
in a mass 70ft. high, and it
took up the full 150 ft. width
of the shed, so that it was
impossible to see how far back
it extended. A little over half
the 995 ft. length df the shed,
the manager informed us. The
capacity of the shed was
150,000 tons, and at that time
he estimated the tonnage of
the stack at 78,000.
Judged by any standards it
was an enormous heap of
sugar
At the foot of the stack two
electrically-driven grabs fed the
sugar on to the conveypr-belt
that ran under the concrete
floor and out to the ship-four
tons a time for each grab-
maintaining a constant flow of
600 tons of sugar an hour.
Between storage-shed and ship
the sugar is again weighed, an
automatic machine weighing
and recording it in 15-ton
“You can say THAT again.”
batches without interrupting the
flow.
We boarded the ship and,
leaning over the hatch coam-
ing, watched the stream of
sugar pouring into the hold.
We seemed to be the only ones
interested, for there was na
ship’s officer checking the trim,
and the view of the gantry-
operator was~ completely cut
off by his machine.
“Who does keep a check on
the loading?” we inquired.
“The gantry-operator and
one of the ship’s officers,” we
were told.
The gantry-operator was
equipped with a television-set.
But it wasn’t presenting a
cowboy-and-Indian drama; it
was giving him a view of the
hold, letting him see where to
direct the stream of sugar until
wings and corners were filled.
With a telephone connected to
the mate’s cabin he could, at
any time, tell that officer how
the trim was and what tonnage
had gone into the hold.
From a seaman’s point of
view bulk sugar is an ideal
cargo. Unlike grain, which
needs elaborate precautions to
prevent it from shifting in a
seaway, raw sugar settles itself
into a solid mass that even
the heaviest seas fail to move.
And what do the millers
think of the innovation? They
have been put to considerable
expense in equipping their mills
to handle bulk sugar, and they
are being levied to help pay
for the Terminal. They are
nearly all in favor of it. Their
handling expenses have been
reduced by the new method,
and they no longer have to buy
bags. But the greatest advan-
tage is the sense of security
they now enjoy—a freedom
from the threat of waterfront
hold-ups.
In past years this threat was
a constant worry to them. With
their limited storage - space
filled to capacity a wharf strike
could force them to suspend
crushing until the lumpers
chose to resume work. Now
the mill storage-sheds are
almost empty and the Terminal
is handling the sugar as fast
as it is produced.
Mackay’s Bulk Sugar
Terminal is the first of its kind
in Australia. It cost more than
£1,600,000 to build, and it will
handle the whole of the
district’s annual sugar crop,
estimated this year at over
280,000 tons. Its storage-shed
is the biggest in the world.
Undoubtedly it has set the
pattern for all Australian sugar
ports.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COHFANT LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Last of the Cups
APPROPRIATELY enough,
Sailor’s Guide, who has
been Victoria’s best and most
consistent galloper throughout
the spring carnival, easily won
the Williamstown CUp—last of
the season’s Cups. First prize
of £2700, plus the £3OO trophy,
lifted “Sailor’s” earnings to
£55,544 and placed him fifth on
the list of Australia’s top stake-
winners.
• • • •
South Australian Pat
Glennon was brought over to
ride the Bendigo horse, and
rode a race reminiscent 1 of his
Melbourne Cup success on
Comic Court in 1950. Glennon
believes in letting a horse that
is going well have its head, and
in last Saturday’s race he
dashed Sailor’s Guide to the
lead three furlongs from home.
Thereafter, the race was a pro-
cession, with “Sailor” being
eased down to win by five
lengths from Te Totara and the
consistent Pandie Sun.
Sailor’s Guide’s record
proves that he is a top-class
horse, but his easy win in the
Williamstown Cup just a week
after Tulloch had toyed with
him in the C. B. Fisher Plate
emphasised Tulloch’s extra-
ordinary ability.
The speedy grey Misting,
W'ho has been kept busy
throughout the spring carnival,
won his second race when he
scooted away with the Rawdon
Stakes, at Caulfield. At his
previous two starts Misting had
run second behind the two best
youngsters of the spring,
Gabonia and Sandhurst. He
appreciated the drop in class
in the Rawdon, and cantered
horfie many lengths clear.
• • • •
Misting’s speed kept him
ahead of a nasty smash halfway
down the straight. Neron, who
was running third, clipped
Astounding’s heels and came
down in front of a packed
field, and horse after horse
piled up in what looked like
being one of Victoria’s worst
race crashes ever. By the
greatest good fortune none of
the jockeys was seriously
injured. Alan Yeomans and
Peter King each sustained a
broken collarbone ; Williamson
escaped with a shaking.
Hhtchinson received nothing
worse than a shock, and was
able to ride again in later
races. M.R.C. stewards sus-
pended Noel McGrowdie
(rider of Astounding) for two
months.
The Melbourne Racing
Club, which conducted the
Williamstown Cup meeting,
inaugurated a new event, the
mile Sandown Guineas for
three-year-old fillies, the Mid-
stream filly Orient winning
narrowly from another Sydney
filly, Goldenway. Not many
of T. J. Smith’s horses win at
Orient’s price—10 to I—but
stable supporters have found
“Now can I see the footballs ?”
the filly a costly proposition in
the past. This time she was
made to do her best by promis-
ing Queensland apprentice Mel
Schumacher, who used a lot
of vigor to get her up, right on
the line.
• • • •
Despite her Oaks perform-
ance, Amneris was again sent
out an odds-on favorite in the
Sandown Guineas. Something
is amiss with that filly; she
was struggling throughout the
race, and finished well down
the running.
• • • •
Next Saturday’s Melbourne
racing will again be at Caul-
field, where the V.A.T.C. will
stage the Eclipse Stakes. A
£3OOO event run over a mile
and a quarter, the Eclipse is
regarded as a consolation race
for horses that haven’t landed
one of the big races of the
spring. Indeed, when instituted
in 1934 it was known for three
years as the Consolation Stakes.
Flemington trainer Theo
Lewis has revealed that his
close friend Arthur (“Scobie”)
Breasley, leading rider in
England this season, will return
for a visit to Melbourne next
week. His record for the
season just completed in
England reads: 167 winners,
132 seconds, 89 thirds —388
placings from 639 mounts.
The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment has given the V.R.C.
the honor of staging the only
race-meeting the Queen Mother
will attend during her Aus-
tralian visit. Reason for the
Commonwealth decision to
favor the V.R.C. stems from
the Queen’s liking for cross-
country racing. The V.R.C. has
rearranged its autumn pro-
gramme, and on March 1, date
of the Royal visit, it will stage
the £lO,OOO Queen Elizabeth
Stakes and a £2OOO steeple-
chase, the name for which has
yet to be submitted for the
Queen Mother’s approval. It
is likely that the Royal party
will see wonder colt Tulloch
race in the Queen Elizabeth
Stakes.
* * *
Champ., and Others
With no further travelling
ahead of him for several weeks,
champion three-year-old
Tulloch will now have a
thoroughly earned, but brief,
let-up from racing, and he’s
certain to appreciate the rest.
Even though he hasn’t been
over-raced in the pursuit of
riches he’s done a lot of
moving round by air and by
road. His typically easy
Queensland' Derby success last
Saturday broqght his total
earnings to £51,647, and he
became the first to win the
A.J.C., V.R.C. and Q.T.C.
Derbys.
In the autumn Tulloch will
run in the V.R.C. and A.J.C.
St. Legers and maybe in the
Q.T.C. classic. The £lO,OOO
Queen Elizabeth Stakes at
Flemington is also to be
included in his tentative pro-
gramme. It is likely his total
prizemoney at the end of the
season may never be beaten
for a horse at two and three
years.
• • • •
Brisbane trainer Fred Best
paid 725gns. for the Mainbrace-
Classform colt at the New
Zealand yearling - sales last
January. Now racing as
Admiral Brace, the youngstef
won the First Sapling Stakes at


Largest Australian Coy
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
/tranches and Agencies throughout
the World.
Setween
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
the Q.T.C. Derby meeting.
Classform is by Inflation.
Mainbrace was a New Zealand
champion. He won 23 races
- 17 in succession and
£28,985 in stakes. He filled a
place at each of his only other
two outings.
• • • •
Earlwood, winner of the
Second Sapling Stakes in Bris-
bane, is from a sister to former
Caulfield Cup winner Buzalong.
The colt is"by Boxwood (imp.)
and is from Honey Buz by The
Buzzard (imp.). H. H. Cook
trains Earlwood for W. J.
Jones, who bred the youngster
at his Woodonga Stud, Canning
Downs (Q.).
Last Saturday Randwick
trainer T. J. Smith had winners
in Brisbane (Tulloch, Q.T.C.
Derby), Melbourne (Orient,
Sandown Guineas at Caulfield)
and Sydney (Talker, Two-year-
old Maiden, and King Delville,
Campsie Stakes, at Canterbury).
Tulloch’s prize was £2450,
Orient’s £l3OO, Talker’s £699,
King Delville’s £740. As most
trainers, or many of them,
receive 10 per cent, of stake-
money won, Smith’s cut in
that way for last Saturday’s
results would be upwards of
£5OO. A passable afternoon.
• • • •
Veteran sportsmen remem-
ber The Fortune Hunter, a
top stayer of the First War
years, when he won several
long-distance events, including
the 1917 Sydney Cup and the
A.J.C. Summer Cup. His name
figures in the background of
Talker’s pedigree. Talker came
from last to first in the Canter-
bury Park Two - year - old
Maiden Stakes for colts and
geldings. Costing 1500gns. as
a yearling, he is by Newtown
Wonder (imp.) from Miss
Chatterbox (unraced) by Talk-
ing from Deep Purple by
Marconigram (imp.).
• • i • •
King Delville was the first
of the Delville Wood’s to be
sold at the Randwick yearling-
auction in 1955. He realised
2600gn5., the bid of his part-
owner and trainer, T. I. Smith,
but he didn’t win until the
latest Canterbury Park fixture,
when he cantered in with the
Campsie Stakes (11 furlongs
and 65yds.). King Delville,
now a four-year-old, may go
on to better things ; he belongs
to a .good winning family. It
has included Forest Beau
(Q.T.C. Derby and St. Leger),
Waterlady (V.R.C. Oaks) and
Desert Gold (36 wins, £23,133).
King Delville’s dam, Best
Wishes, was got by Agincourt
(imp.) from Happy Returns by
Chief Ruler (imp.).
While parading prior to the
running of the Frank Under-
wood Cup at Canterbury the
grey Aqua Boy took the eye
for fitness, as did Half Hennesy,
and they finished first and
second. The favorite, Yes
Please, who missed a place,
looked a bit on the big side,
allowing for the fact that he’s
solidly built. Half Hennesy
came late on the scene; he
wasn’t suited by the slow pace,
but his winning turn seems
close at hand. Kalimah was
a surprising third. Aqua Boy
is a Persia five-year-old gelding
from Orostream by Oro from
Windstream by Windbag, so
it’s no wonder he can stay.
W. Dunlop, member of the
Q.T.C. committee, bred both
Orostream and Aqua Boy. The
grey has now won eight races,
and will be set for the Summer
Cup at Randwick on Boxing
Day.
Amanullah’s win in the
Belmore Stakes at Canterbury
was not out of his turn. In
20 previous starts he had had
only one win, but had filled
minor places on 13 occasions,
including eight seconds, most
of them in succession. Amanul-
lah exploded the idea that
horses find it hard to win from
an outside barrier at the 7{-
furlongs start.
Considered a good thing and
backed at odds-on Miss Oriel
had every chance in the Two-
year-old Maiden for fillies at
Canterbury; she wasn’t good
enough. Empress Fay, who
won it, is raced by D. J. Colburt
and his three sons, for whom
she is trained at Rosehill by
Tom Kennedy. She is by
Emperor (Fr.) from Fayastra
by MacArthur from Princess
Clare by Treclare (imp.). It
was Empress Fay’s second start
in public, so she could develop
into a more - than - useful
galloper.
• • ♦ •
Flames is the right sort of
galloper to have in a stable.
Her last four appearances have
resulted in wins, first of them
at Hawkesbury, and the last
three at Canterbury. A four-
year-old mare, she is trained at
Randwick by Frank Selkrig for
his wife and is ridden in all
races by their son Ray. In
each of the four wins the mare
has been well fancied, and she
was ridden perfectly by her
young rider at her latest outing.
Emperor (imp.) has sired
seve na 1 brilliant sprinters,
among them French Fable, The
Corsican, High Spot and Gul-
lungun. He had two more
winners last Saturday, Empress
Fay at Canterbury and Marie
Antoinette, winner of the Two-
year-old Stakes at Newcastle.
Landslide, the dam of Marie
Antoinette, is by Landlaw
(imp.) from Queen of the Blues
(imp.) by Bachelor’s Double.
A former jockey in New
Zealand, where he won
upwards of 50 races, Alf Toki,
now a young trainer, is hoping
to win races with a team he*has
brought from the Dominion.
Main reason for the change-
over was difficulty in getting a
run in Maiden company
because there is a surplus of
non-winners in New Zealand.
However, not many Maiden
events are programmed at our
city meetings, either, though
non-winners can compete in
Graduation Stakes races at a
set weight (7.12; with allow-
ances for fillies and mares).
Toki eventually will have a
team of about a dozen. His
plan and progress will be
watched with interest.
+ +
Sporting Dragnet
The 1957 Australian Open, played
on the Kingston Heath course
(Melbourne), was won by 25-year-
old N.S.W. golfer Frank Phillips,
runner-up in the Pelaco tourna-
ment the previous week, with a 72-
bole aggregate of 287 (68, 70, 75,
74). The last two rounds, last
Saturday, were played in appalling
conditions, with a 40-m.p.h. gale
blowing. Tying for second, on 288,
were South African Gary Player and
Ossie Pickworth, and fourth, on 289,
was Peter Thomson. Kel Nagle,
leader after the first and second
rounds, finished on 290. The 1956
winner, Bruce Crampton, went
round in 294, while the leading
amateur, Doug Bachli, was on 295.
In tennis Australian singles title-
holder Ashley Cooper easily defeated
left-hander Neale Fraser 6-4, 6-3, 6-3
in the final of the N.S.W. singles-
title. The win confirms Cooper’s
> ating as Australia's “No. 1 amateur.
Fraser has played his way into quite
a few important singles-finals, but
hasn’t yet won a really big title ;
his best two wins have been the
1955-56 South Australian title
(unexpectedly defeating Hoad) and
the 1956 Queen's Club tourney in
England, defeating Rosewall. He
was runner-up to Rosewall in the
N.S.W. titles last year.
The N.S.W. doub’les-title went to
Rose and Anderson, who in a drab
final defeated last year's winners,
Cooper and Fraser, in four sets.
(Ihese four players, with Emerson,
constitute the five so far named
for the Davis Cup squad.
The doubles-pairings have been
changed.) The women’s singles was
won by Victorian girl Lorraine
Coghlan, who defeated the tall, fair
English lass Angela Mortimer, in an
exciting final, 6-4, 10-8, and thus
reversed the win against her when
the pair met in the recent Queens-
land singles-final.
The Australian cricketers came
through fairly satisfactorily their first
encounter with South African Test-
bowlers Adcock, Heine and Tayfield.
They defeated Transvaal by nine
wickets. After a mid-innings
collapse, Simpson (103) and David-
son (100) put on an excellent 176
for the seventh wicket, carrying Aus-
tralia’s first-innings total well beyond
400.
With the first two days’ play
curtailed by rain, Victoria beat W.A.
by 178 runs on the first innings in
their Sheffield Shield match (Nov.
8-12). Features of the game, Vic-
torian left-arm bowler lan Quick’s
6-65 in W.A.’s first innings (it was
his Shield debut) ; among the bats-
men, good knocks by Victoria’s
Huntington (a century) and Shaw,
and W.A.’s Vernon (in the first
innings, a practically solo effort) and
Rutherford and Meuleman (second
innings).
Following their defeat by Oxford
University, the Australian Rugby
Union Wallabies were given a
further football-lesson by Cambridge
University, 13-3. Then, on famous
Twickenham, they drew 9-all with
another strong combination. London
Counties, which toppled the 1947
Wallabies and 1951 Springboks.
Each team’s nine points came from
a try and two penalty-goals. Aus-
tralia’s try, by five-eighth Summons,
was a brilliant solo effort.
At Sydney Stadium, on Nov. 11,


Faith in the
Future
When the Queen was in America recently,
Washington and New York gave her a welcome
which, I believe, will go into record as one of the
most significant events of the 20th century.
The crowds that acclaimed Her Majesty were
not her subjects, as we were when we cheered her
in Australia in 1954. The whole historic sentiment
of the United States, in fact, was sprung from
revolt against a former occupant of the British
Throne, King George the Third.
Yet in the streets of the world’s most powerful
Republic, that King’s successor has been hailed
and Union Jacks were waved to greet her.
Here is surely one of the most interesting
examples of how the spirit of mankind, in goodwill,
can rise above divergences on political system.
The U.S.A. is no less staunchly republican,
Britain and her Commonwealth partners are no
less firmly joined in allegiance to the Crown. In
friendship they stand closer today than ever before.
Australia has a very real part in this union.
In the first place, we are one of the major countries
remaining in complete membership in the British
Commonwealth; Canada, just across the border
from the U.S.A., is another. We are also at the
edge of Asia, with all the opportunities this presents
for advancing the democratic cause among nations
of the East.
And secondly, we share a Pacific interest with
America, whose west coast increases yearly in wealth
and importance to the U.S. economy.
So we stand in special relation to both Britain
and the U.S.A., whose unity was so movingly
symbolised in the Queen’s American tour.
It is plain to me that Australia’s place is being
made for it —in a triangle, with Britain and
America, that will form the pattern of leadership
and influence in the free world. And I believe that
all our thinking on this country’s future should be
directed to preparing well for the fulfilling of that
historic role.
Australian lightweight Russell Sands
scored an easy points win over
Mexican Sapo Ortega. Sands domi-
nated the fight, but , the Mexican
always came back gamely. At
Melbourne Stadium on Friday night
Sydney lightweight Charlie Smith
easily defeated on points Italian
Franco Rosini.
* * *
“Kejokada”; A full round of
pennant-cricket is played in
Melbourne each Melbourne
Cup day. South Melbourne
opening-batsman Bruce Vaw-
ser is probably beginning to
wish it wasn’t. He’s been dis-
missed first ball for a duck on
each of the last two Cup days.
Would he have wanted to see
the Cup?
“Severas”; That Aussie Rules
footballer Lloyd Laidler
(B. 6/11/’57) is not the only
long-playing sportsman of that
name. St. George (Sydney)
cricket - club wicketkeeper -
skipper Ernie Laidler began
with Saints’ first XI in
1928-29, at the age of 16. Since
then his more noted team-
mates have included Sir
Donald Bradman, Bill O’Reilly,
Fairfax, Morris and Lindwall.
Laidler has never been dropped.
South Africa had a visit from
England last season, and has
the Australians this year. Then
no Test-team will visit S’Africa
for seven years. Reason, of
course, is apartheid, which
prohibits tours from West
Indies, Pakistan or India.
“Veryl”: As Keith Miller
wrote recently, W.A. skipper
Meuleman, who hails from
Victoria, was unlucky in his
Test-cricket, which was limited
to one Test against N.Z. (in
1946) and to being 12th-man in
the first two 1946-47 Tests
against Hammond’s M.C.C.
team. But Miller’s crossfire
was slightly off the wicket when
he said Meuleman lost his
drink-waiting job to Merv
Harvey. Actually it was to the
Victorian pace-bowler Fred
Freer, who piayed in the
second Test when Lindwall was
hurt, and, faring creditably
enough, was rewarded by being
made 12th-man for the third
and fourth Tests. Meuleman
was dropped altogether. Merv
Harvey was brought in to open
with Morris in the fourth Test
when Barnes was out injured,
and in turn carried the drinks
in the fifth. Meuleman, having
been confined to the pavilion
for so long without match-
play, lost form, and had a bad
run of outs when he went back
to Shield-cricket; and he was
never returned to the Test fold.
But he’s been making a lot
ot runs in recent years for
W.A.
# * *
Little-known By-law
“Old Rep.” on a little-known
international Rugby Union
rule:
the return of a weii-known Welsh
footballer to the Rugby Union lord
after a season of League in tne norm
oi England has raised a rumpus that
has spread to the touring Vvanabies,
involving the status of lock-toi ward
Lddie t'urkiss (who played League
as a schoolboy) and apparently some
lew others oi the Australian side.
Ihe fuiminations of some of the
Lnglish sports-writers seem to be
directed towards a little-known by-
law ot the International body, which
countenances the acceptance of a
player who has taken pai t in the
thirteen-a-side game but debars him
from international contests.
this by-law is not known in Aus-
tralia or N.Z. There have, of
course,'been instances in Australia
where men who have played League
have been taken back into Union
ranks, but these are few (in the
cities, anyway); and very
lew, if any, across the Tasman,
whore the N.Z.R.U. has always
remained adamant. Indeed, in N.Z.,
as tar back as 1909 a wnoie batch
of senior players, including a
number of representatives, were put
out tor lile lor playing League
(then known as Northern Union) in
an exhibition game ; and since then
a heavy hand has always been laid
upon defaulters irom the older code.
In Australia a large number of
country players in N.S.W. and
Queensland play League because
there is no Union club close at hand
and gieat distances would have to be
travelled to play Union. Naturally,
it any such player moves back to a
part of the country where Union is
piayed, he should not be, and usually
is not, debarred from rejoining its
tanks, more especially if he piayed
League as an amateur.
In the U.K. and Ireland there are
plenty of anomalies with regard to
players under the two codes, particu-
larly in connection with the Services.
Soccer and Rugby Union are the two
games played by members of the
Navy, Army and Air Force ; and it
frequently happens that Rugby men
from League areas in Northern
England play Union in the® Service
games regardless of amateur or'pro-
fessional status. A prominent
League man, like Bi-liy Boston, the
international League winger, often
finds himself taking a pass from a
dyed-in-the-wool Union inter-
national. In such cases as this, no
action on the part of the governing
bodv is possible.
The attitude of the Rugby Union
in England is, of course, under-
standable, for the League is ever on
the lookout for noteworthy recruits
irom Union particularly from
Wales ; and now that there is a
three-years’ ban on importations
fiom Australia and N.Z., no doubt
the quest for the home-grown player
will be intensified, unless South
Africa can help fill the gap. In this
latter connection a start has already
been made by the St. Helens League
Club, which has signed on Van
Voilenhoven, the “flying policeman”
who was here with the South African
team in 1956.
The present disturbance will not
in any way affect either the course
ot the Wallabies’ tour or the spirits
oi participants, or of Purkiss in par-
ticular, who, if he deserves Test-selec-
tion, will be picked, manager
McClenaughan has announced.


FOR SAFE
Sydney Morning; Heralds, 1850 to
1910, bound and in good order.
Also Scrapbooks and Collections
of some thousands of Theatrical
Personalities:
JAMES ROGERS
211 Bulwara Rd., Pyrmont
Phone MW 1604
Divorce Notice
TO VERA GLADYS HADDOCK for-
merly' of Melbourne Victoria. —TAKE
NOTICE that your husband MAXWELL
DESMOND HADDOCK has commenced
proceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for Divorce
on the ground of desertion by you for
a continuous period of three years or
more and be is seeking the exercise of the
Court’s discretion pursuant to Section
27 of the Matrimonial Causes and Per-
sonal Status Code 1948-1954 IF you
desire to defend such proceedings you
must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within FORTY clear dayg from the date
of this publication In default of your
so doing the cause may proceed and the
Court will pronounce judgment and
make orders against you in your
absence. —DATED this 12th day of
November, 1957.—G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar.
FRED CURRAN & FERRIER, of
Forrest Place, Perth, in the State of
Western Australia, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Crew and Lemy’s The
Genetics of the Budgerigar; S. R.
Crockett’s The Black Douglas;
E M. Curr’s Australian Race:
Origin, Language (Vol. 4 —Atlas —
only); Daglish's Dachshunds; W. J.
Dawson’s The Travellers’ Guide to
Western Australia (Perth, 1952); and
Charles Dickens’s Hunted Down.
—6623.
To buy one secondhand entomolo-
gical cabinet (for displaying butter-
flies). —6624.
To buy copy of Casanova’s
Memoires. —6625.
Will any heirs, or anyone knowing
of any heirs, of Steele Rudd please
get in touch with Miss Beatrice
Davis, c/o Angus and Robertson,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney?
Letter received from Barcelona
(Spain)—The Editor, The Bulletin,
Sydney. Dear Sir, 1 am an Aus-
tralian citizen holding passport
number 2625, I was born in Sydney,
but for most of my life my residence
has been in Barcelone. I have much
pleasure in informing you that 1 am
lor many years established mysell in
this city, and 1 should be very much
obliged if it should be possible for
you, to addressed me to somebody
who was so kind to send me old
newspapers, in order to be informed
that is happened in Australia, my
loved country, already for the low
exchange of the peseta, it is not
possible for me to be subscribed in
any newspaper. I should pay any
expenses that can cause these
envoices to the kind person who can
send me these newspapers. 1 am to
your disposal and shall be happy to
reciprocate in like circumstances.
With my thanks in anticipation and
awaiting your kind reply, 1 remain
Dear Sir, Your faithfully, Cony
Reull Oliver, Consejo Ciento 243,
Barcelona (Espana).
Does Anybody Know?
Anything of an old-time illusionist
named Maskelyne (of Maskelyne and-
Devant)?
Information Sought
Brief biographical note on Vernon
Sylvaine, the English playwright ?
The following is taken from the
1957 Who’s Who: Born Aug. 9,
1897, educated at the College of St.
Francis Xavier (Sussex), he served in
World War I, being invalided out in
1917. Since 1917 he has concen-
trated on a stage-career, as actor,
playwright and producer, mainly in
London and New York. His plays
include “The Phantom Fear” (1928),
“The Road of Poplars” (1930),
“And a Woman Passed By” (1935),
“Aren’t Men Beasts?” (1936),
“Worth a Million” (1939), “Women
Aren’t Angels” (1940), “Madame
Louise” (1945), “One Wild Oat”
(1948), which had a season in Aus-
tralia, “1 Married Two Men” (1950),
“Will Any Gentleman?” (1950),
“There’s Something in the Cellar!”
(1951), “As Long as They’re Happy”
(i 953) and “Three Times a Day”
(1955).
• * * *
What is the Mulesing operation,
and how did the word “Mulesing”
come into the language ?
A South Australian farmer, J. H.
W. Mules, conceived the idea of
removing the wrinkles from the
y;utch of sheep by cutting them off,
and so producing a plain-breeched
animal less likely to be struck. This
operation is now known as the Mules
operation. Research by C.5.1.R.0.
officers indicated that a more radical
operation could be successfully
carried out. “Mulesing,” as this
improved operation is also called,
is now performed in all Merino-
breeding areas, and is the recog-
nised answer to fly-strike. In B.
23 /3 / '55, on the Land page,
“C.A.A.” stated that, “If combined
with correct tail-docking at marking-
time and one crutching per year, the
Mules operation is now regarded as
being 99 per cent, effective.”
* * * *
(1) In what years were Disraeli
and Gladstone in the British Parlia-
ment ? (2) What years were each
Prime Minister ?
(1) Benjamin Disraeli, Earl of
Beaconsfield (1804-81), entered
Parliament in 1837 for Maidstone,
and remained in the House until his
death. W. E. Gladstone (1809-98)
entered Parliament in the first
Reform Parliament in 1832, and sat
in the house until bis retirement at
the dissolution in 1895, except in
1846, when he was Secretary of
State for the Colonies. (2) Disraeli
became virtual leader of the Con-
servative party in 1846 ; in 1852 he
was leader of the House and
Chancellor of the Exchequer. After
serving in two or three Administra-
tions, in 1868 he became Prime
Minister, in succession to Lord
Derby ; but resigned at the end of
the year. In 1874 he became Prime
Minister again, remaining in office
until his defeat at the 1880 election.
Gladstone served in the Ministries
of Peel, Palmerston, etc., and
succeeded in 1867 to the leadership
of the Liberal" party ; he became
Prime Minister for the first time on
Dec. 9, 1868, remaining in office
until Jan., 1874. He then resigned
leadership of the party for a time,
but after the 1880 election Lord
Hartington resigned in his favor,
and he succeeded Disraeli as Prime
Minister (June, 1880, to June, 1885).
He returned for a very short third
term in 1886, and in 1892, in his
83rd year, he had his fourth term,
which lasted until he resigned office
on March 3, 1894.
Brief biography of Sir James
Martin, former N.S.W. Premier and
Chief Justice ?
Born at Middleton (County Cork,
Ireland) on May 14, 1820, he was
brought to Sydney by his parents in
1821. In 1848 he was elected to the
Legislative Council for Cook and
Westmoreland, but the election was
declared void ; at a new election he
was returned unopposed. In 1856
he was elected to the first N.S.W.
Parliament under responsible govern-
ment, and in August that year was
made Attorney-General in Charles
Cowper’s first Ministry. Immediately
there was a great outcry from Parlia-
ment, press and bar because Martin
was not then a barrister ; and the
Government was defeated. However,
when Cowper formed his second
Ministry in 1857, Martin was given
the same position, having meanwhile
qualified as a barrister, and he
proved himself a good administrator.
In Nov., 1858, he resigned his seat ;
re-entering Parliament, he formed
his first (and very short-lived)
Ministry in Oct., 1863. In Jan., 1866,
Martin became Premier again when
he made a coalition with Henry
Parkes, their Ministry lasting nearly
three years and passing important
measures. Knighted in that time,
he was Premier for the third time
from Dec., 1870, until May, 1872.
In Nov., 1873, he became N.S.W.
Chief Justice. He died on Nov. 4,
1886. Towards the end of his life
the British historian J. A. Froude
said of him that had be been Chief
Justice of England “he would have
passed as among the most dis-
tinguished occupants of that high
position.”
Brief Answers
F.H.J.N. and A.J.J.: (1) Write
Department of Territories, Common-
wealth Building, Circular Quay West,
Sydney. (2) Victoria River Downs,
Brunette Downs and Alexandria
Downs, all in the N.T., were
administered from 1864 to 1910 by
South Australia and since 1911 by
the Commonwealth. (3) To F.H.J.N.
only—Don’t rightly know, pardner,
but guess the biggest would be down
somewheres in Texas, U.S.A
V.H.N.: The secretary of the N.S.W.
Board of Health states that, from
your figures, the water of which the
analysis was made has a somewhat
high mineral-content, and is quite
soft, and no objection could be taken
to it on those grounds. However,
before it could be classified as fit for
drinking, it would need to be
examined bacteriologically to prove
it free from pollution. If such
investigation is desired, contact the
Queensland Department of Public
Health... .L. 0.: Whether or not it
is a good idea to put away stamps


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COUKT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO LINDA MARY THERESA ATKIN-
SON of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
CLARENCE LLOYD ATKINSON haa
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3655 of
1957 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court House
King Street Sydney by the 16th day of
January 1958 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from THOMAS
LESLIE BLATCHFQRD, 81 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—Is Divorce.
TO ROY STEWART SYMONS known as
JACK STEWART late of 12 Dudley
Street Paddington.—TAKE NOTICE that
IVY EMMA SYMONS known as IVY
STEWART has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3796 of 1957 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 23rd January 1958 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from HUNT & HUNT, Solicitors, 15
Bligh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
o°°%
Lr^l
o
0
*
'V
\
DONT LET YOUR
OVERSEAS
REPRESENTATIVE
PINE FOR HOME
SEND HIM A SUBSCRIPTION TO
“THE BULLETIN”
AS A CHRISTMAS-GIFT FROM THE FIRM
Every other day alert-looking men call at “The Bulletin”
office and repeat a familiar phrase "I'm going overseas
for a period but I MUST KEEP IN TOUCH send me
‘The Bully' every week.” Reasonable? Very. There is
no better way; in fact* there is no other way.
Not only does the Australian overseas receiving
“The Bulletin” keep in touch with national affairs, but
he breathes the wide open spaces and feels the sunshine
every time he opens an issue. Every overseas business
representative deserves this privilege. He can’t come to
Australia, so send Australia to him. He’ll appreciate it
more than that bonus I
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
ELSEWHERE
IN THIS ISSUE _
<
*\
572.
2^
iff
%
Y
depends purely upon the individual.
It is impossible to state whether
stamps will gain in value in any given
time. This depends upon supply and
demand for particular stamps. It
is possible to redeem stamps at the
G.P.O. in each State. These redemp-
tions are subject to a discount from
face-value of stamps of 10 p.c. up to
£1 ; 7~f p.c. up to £3 ; 6 p.c. up to
£5 ; and 5 p.c. over £5 H.A.Y.:
Thanks for information. Your item
was not used, as it tallied closely
with Tnvem's” (B, 13/11/’57)
C.; Will be interested in seeing your
poems Angus Bob, J.A.L., H.T.P.
and K.N.McG.: Write Mitchell
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
... .Cinquanteneuvieme : Can t help
you on either query. Write the Vic-
torian Shiplovers’ Society, which
might be able to help
3.M.: The answer is one-
sixteenth K.S.: (1) It would
definitely contravene the law. (2)
See a solicitor... .N.C.: Queensland
has an area of 670,500 square-miles.
Just over one-half (359,000 square-
miles) is in the tropic zone. Length
of the Queensland coastline is
approx. 3000 miles S.R.C.H.:
Get in touch with the Superintendent
ot Mails, G.P.0., Martin Place,
Sydney G.S.: Write W. E.
Savage, Green Farm, Red Hill South
(Vic.), re Russian comfrey... .S.S.:
Question was referred to the;
Regional Director of the Depart-
ment of Defence Production, who,
however, says the department has no
information relating to the building.
P.D.: (1) The following horses
won the Sydney Cup in the follow-
ing years—Mermaid, 1871 ; Specu-
lation, 1874 ; Imperial, 1875 ; A.T.,
1876 ; Cunnamulla, 1882 ; Norm-
anby, 1885 ; Frisco, 1887 ; Carbine,
1889, 1890 ; Tricolor, 1897 ; Mer-
ioolas, 1889 ; Street Arab, 1903.
(2) The following won the Caul-
field Cup—Blink Bonny, 1884 ;
Grace Darling," 1885 ; Ben Bolt,
1886 ; Chicago, 1888 ; Vengeance,
1890 ; Paris, 1894 ; Waterfall,
1895. (3) Impudence won the
Adelaide Cup in 1876... .A.W.:
‘Fuscous” (from Latin fuscus,
dusky) means greyish brown or
black, sombre, dark. Ivor Brown,
in / Give You My Word, says of
“Fuscous” : “It is strange that so
expressive a word should have been
limited mainly to the technical lingo
of Natural History. Weather and
hill-scenery in rain often strike me
as fuscous, but they are never
called 50”... .J.C.P.: No, you can’t
saddle the Doc. with that. (2) Dr.
Hyatt's, main works include T he
King and fjis Dominion Governors,
Rum Rebellion and Australian Labor
Leader .... J.A.: (l) ida Lee (Mrs.
Charles Bruce Marriott) wrote,
among other works, The Bush Fire
and Other Verses (1897), and, prose,
Ihe Coming of the British to Aus-
tralia 1788-1829 (1906), The Log-
books of the “Lady Nelson ” (1915)
and Early Explorers of Australia
(1925). (2) No information....
R.W.: (l) and (2) Under Section 92
of the Repatriation Act, a Service
pension is payable only to residents
of Australia or any Territory of the
Commonwealth. (3) They are run
by the War Veterans’ Home
Honorar y Board of Directors, which
consists of representatives of the
R.S.S.A.LL.A. (N.S.W. branch) and
of Legacy. (4) Application for admis-
sion to the Homes should be made
to the Administrator, War Veterans’
Home, Rickard House, 84 Pitt Street,
Sydney 1.X.L.: (1) Audited mem-
bership of the R.S.S.A.I.L.A. as at
31 /12/’56, 237,408. (2) Not known
and doubt if accurate assessment
could be obtained. (3) Yes. For-
ward a statutory declaration to the
(WWI) O.C. A.I.F. Records. Can-
berra (A.C.T.). (WW2) Central
Army Records Office, Albert Park
Barracks, Melbourne, Victoria, with
a postal-note for 2s. 9d. Declara-
tion-forms may be obtained from
R.S.L. H.Q., Anzac House. 26/36
College Street, Sydney. (4) No. (5)
Yes. (6) Yes. Ex-Servicemen may be
invited to join Legacy and be
prepared to serve as required.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
aH MSS. No liability is under-
taken ie contributor ; voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered far publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
H.M.: “Heat” left us fairly cool.
T.G.: That’s a terrific subject
to tackle... .T.K.: It has the
singular (and solitary) merit of being
the only poem in human history ever
written about the Bradford Wool
Type Card J.F.H.: “Below my
seventh for your inspection.” Sug-
gest you beget about 700
A. 8.: Your “Bushfire” went 0ut....
i. 8.: Too many words to the
bird I.B.: Though you do better
with them than usual, they’re very
large subjects... .N.A.T.: Sputnik
circling back to you E.V.T.: The
Religious Editor shuddered....
K.T.W.: Try it on the girl... .P.V.:
Why “with which they belong”? .....
H.J.S.: “By hell 1 like that girl!’
So we gather... .E.F.: Take a
breath occasionally. Use the full-
stop,.. .A.E.C.: “Kitty” would
amuse bowlers... .T.S.:
To those who passed unheeding .
This picture on the wall.
To them I say “Damnation l
Have you no soul at all ?”
These are very strong words, -but
many an artist has longed to utter
them J.H.: “Spondee” has the
merit of being short
Poems about the sun are interesting
at the moment, on the off-chance
that the Russians will emigrate to it,
but even now you can’t rhyme “sub-
lime” and “thine” R.K.: They
don’t quite come off, but you have
ideas, phrases and, occasionally,
melody J.P.: We have inspected
the beach-girls T.T.H.: It would
be as well to avoid “Nuclear War.”


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S.-U.K. PARTNERSHIP
ALTHOUGH the com-
***- munique which followed
the Washington talks between
President Eisenhower and
British Prime Minister Mac-
millan was not particularly
communicative “eloquently
uninformative” (London
“Time and Tide”) or “all the
old, tired generalities strung
together with a little bit more
than the normal elegance”
(Walter Lippmann in N. Y.
“Herald Tribune”) London
“Daily Telegraph” notes that
at least “one reason for feeling
some hope on this occasion is
quite simply that the Americans
need, and feel they need, our
[Britain’s] help”:
“They have been humbled
by the Soviet scientists, out-
witted by friend and foe in the
Middle East, confused by their
own rriilitary uncertainties.
“For once, it seems, a British
Prime Minister was negotiating
from strength, and the results
have been practical. There is
to be a real division of labor—
and free communication of
results —in basic defence
research as a result of modify-
ing the [U.S.] McMahon Act.”
Both Lippmann and London
“Time and Tide” also have
rather more to .say beyond
their initial terse summaries of
the communique.
Lippmann, commenting on
“pooling and co-operation,”
notes that “It is hardly argu-
able that in the field of basic
science and technology the
more pooling and co-operation
there is the better for all con-
cerned.
“But this general idea, when
it is applied to the race of
armaments, contains within it
certain political and military
implications which may be very
far-reaching. For when the
scientists and engineers pool
their knowledge and co-operate
in the designing of the new
weapons, like the big missiles
with nuclear warheads, the
crucial fact is that all, or
almost all, of' the hideously
expensive devices are going to
have to be financed and pro-
duced in the United States.
“This means that we cannot
also be expected to maintain
conventional forces, or forces
with tactical nuclear weapons,
of decisive importance, and at
the same time to subsidise
balanced military establish?
ments from Korea and Japan
and Taiwan to Pakistan and
Turkey and Western Europe.
The inescapable corollary of
co-operation is a division of
labor—an understanding, in
short, as to what we are to
attend to and what the other
Allies are to attend to.”
In other words, if the U.S.
is to “keep ahead with the new
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune”
“YOU ONLY GOT HALF THE PICTURE”
weapons,” it “cannot also sub-
sidise at the present level the
military establishments of all
[its] allies in the whole network
of pacts with which [it] is
involved.”
“Time and Tide's” summing-
up of the possible result of the
talks between the two Western
leaders doubts that “the Anglo-
American alliance is back on
the old footing of mutual'
confidence which was estab-
lished between 1942 and 1945,”
but allows that “a great deal
of the misunderstanding and
mistrust, of which Suez was a
manifestation rather than the
cause, has been removed”:
“This has happened under
the compulsion of a shared
need ; and it is only now, when
we are face to face with that
need, that we can recognise
how deep, how nearly disast-
rous, the breach has been. The
Americans, having come to
consider Britain as an ally of
second-rate importance, un-
trustworthy and supremely
envious of their own pro-
ficiency in the techniques of
nuclear warfare, chose to rely
on themselves alone. The
British were able, on the whole,
to disregard the undertones of
contempt in the American
assessment of their work and
turned to building Alder-
marston and trying out their
own nuclear weapons at
Monte Bello and Christmas
Island —with an impressive
degree of success.
“But the breach showed itself
not only in differences over
defence techniques and security
but over strategy and foreign
policy. When British influence
and authority collapsed in the
Middle East the Americans
stepped heavily in, sure that
they would triumph where the
British had failed. They are
now in virtually the same
plight because ironically
enough—their appreciation of
the Middle East was based on
a similar pattern of misunder-
standing.
“Russia’s explosive entry
into the consequent power-
vacuum, combined with her
melodramatic assertion of
apparent superiority in long-
range, nuclear war, swung
attention back, on both sides
of the Atlantic, to the old,
harsh truth that neither of us
can go it alone. American self-
confidence in the past month
has taken a severe shaking—
in its moral impact almost as
severe as the slump of the early
1930’s or Pearl Harbor. Isola-
tion has suddenly seemed
potentially dangerous ; and the
swing of Britain back into
toleration, if not into high
esteem, in the United States
became inevitable. Britain has
the skill, it has been realised
once again, if not the produc-
tive capacity.
“On the sharing of nuclear
knowledge and development, a
certain amount of progress—
on paper—has been made. How
it will work out when the
President’s admirable hopes are
put through the filter of Con-
gressional scrutiny, and when
either the amendment or repeal
of the McMahon Act is on
Congress’s Order Paper, it is
difficult to predict. The names
of Fuchs and Pontecorvo are
not forgotten in Washington ;
and they act as useful stalking-
horses for old suspicions and
old resentments.
“It was in the field of what
might be termed strategic
diplomacy that most was
effected. Nato, that most valu-
able of all international instru-
ments, which seemed to be
sadly in cold-storage for the
past 12 months, has been
resuscitated and new, vigorous
life breathed into it. The pro-
claimed intention of both the
President and Mr. Macmillan
to attend the next meeting of
the Atlantic Council in person
is extremely welcome, if a little
tardy. It can do much, both
symbolically and practically, to
establish Nato’s authority and
influence ; and the decision
itself Serves to put the Anglo-
American talks in their proper
perspective.”
Exit Zhukov
Press-comment on Khrush-
chev's sudden dismissal of
Marshal Zhukov from his post
as Soviet Minister of Defence:
Sir David Kelly, formerly
British Ambassador in Moscow,
writing in London “Sunday
Times”: “His [Zhukov’s] re-
moval from the military com-
mand is a most serious step for


I.J
Use cool, clean lather + Super-sharp Blue Gillette Blade + Gillette quick-action razor
for the quickest slickest
mostrefrcsliinq shave of all time!
Line up the ideal combination of a beard soft with
lather and the sharp Blue Gillette blade that slips
deftly from dispenser into your quick-action razor,
then feel the smooth, effortless glide of a razor always
kind to your skin. Wonderful! Leaves your face sleek
as a billiard ball and so stimulatingly refreshed.
QUICK-FEED
DISPENSER m
Dispensers may be purchased
separately in 10 and 20 blade
sizes 4/4 and 8/8.
ROCKET
SET
12'-
"Goocf mornings 11 begin with Gillette


Kll? mom SAFE/
SANDERS
Correspondence, invoices,
statements, etc., filed in the
"‘Sanders” can be securely
bound and converted info a
perfect book of reference at
the en<f of each month ftf
any other period.
Mr-'* v
avs
Price* »nd fur»
lh«r infornutioß
«pot> *ppiic*t»oa
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
tHirribmtlng Agent* —
MELBOYTKNt , , . Norman ftrtw. Ftj. Ltd.
ADELAIDE i , , Vtrdon Prk« Ltd.
lEKIH • • • (Mkcl Book C«*. Uut)
Khrushchev to have taken, and
is perhaps the greatest surprise
we have had for some years.
Khrushchev had this summer
eliminated all his known rivals,
and had deliberately associated
himself with the most popular
public figure in Russia, whose
only political activities have
been in public defence of
Khrushchev himself, and who
has been assumed to be, like
all Russian officers, a good
party man, primarily interested
in his military profession.”
* * *
London “News Chronicle
“Khrushchev, surrounded by
ambitious men among whom
the memory of murder is green,
dare not be less of a dictator.
He must gather more power or
lose all. As Secretary of the
Communist party he has struck
at the institutional rivals of the
party as well as his personal
competitors. The secret police,
the Ministerial bureaucracy and
now, it seems, the Red Army
have been shown who is
master.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “Mr.
Averell Harriman’s guess is
that Marshal Zhukov was
released because he was
threatening the power of
Khrushchev. ‘The Russians,’
he said, ‘are familiar with
Napoleonic history, so the
politicians get rid of the
generals before the generals get
rid of them.’ ”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post”: “Khrush-
chev, elated by his recent
propaganda successes and dis-
posed to cock a snook at the
Western Powers, may see in
the dismissal of Zhukov a way
of administering a rebuff to
President Eisenhower. When
the Russian Marshal was
promoted to the Presidium,
Western opinion saw in this a
hopeful sign. It was recalled
that the Soldier-President of
the United States and the man
who halted the Germans at the
gates of Moscow were war-
time friends. Mr. Eisenhower
has expressed his admiration
of Zhukov as a brave and
honest man with whom he
would be happy to discuss
agreement. Could the present
sudden announcement of
Zhukov’s dismissal be Khrush-
chev’s reply to the ‘declaration
of common purpose’ by Presi-
dent Eisenhower and Mr.
Macmillan?”
* * *
London “Daily - Telegraph”:
“Only one thing can be said
with any conviction about
Marshal Malinovsky, the new
Soviet Defence Minister: he
is the least distinguished senior
soldier available for the job.
To the Moscow man-in-the-
—London “Daily Mail”
“OI DON’T LIKE IT—OI DON’T LIKE IT AT ALL. THEM GUIDED-MISSILE
LADS’LL LIKELY BE TURRIBLE GOOD AT DARTS!”
street he is virtually unknown ;
among his brother-officers he
is more famous as a bon vivant
than as either a brilliant com-
mander in the field or an out-
standing military administrator.
His war record was solid
without being spectacular, and
for the last six years or so he
has been hidden from view in
the Far East. Compared with
his celebrated predecessor,
Marshal Zhukov, who is prob-
ably the most popular man in
the country, the new Minister
is a virtual nonentity.”
The same: “Stalin, of course,
made a similar decision after
the war when he virtually
banished Zhukov from public
life. In one sense it is a
measure of Mr. Khrushchev’s
strength that he feels himself
in a position to dictate to the
Army in the same arbitrary
manner as his . mighty pre-
decessor. But a regime that
cannot tolerate more than one
strong man in a position of
real authority is neither stable
nor secure. It would be foolish
for the West to draw excessive
comfort from the spectacle of
continued and intensified inter-
necine quarrelling in Moscow.
Nevertheless, the fact that Mr.
Khrushchev feels more and
more compelled—or tempted—
to surround himself with
nonentities shows up the weak-
nesses of Communist society
quite as clearly as Sputnik
demonstrates its strength.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“The appointment of Mali-
novsky as successor to Zhukov
is in keeping with the Khrush-
chev policy of surrounding
himself with second - rate
personalities; it is similar to
his earlier action of appointing
Admiral Gorshkov as Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Soviet
Navy instead of the indi-
vidualistic Admiral Kuznetsov,
whose fate is still a mystery.
Although Mr. Khrushchev has
strengthened his own position
internally, he is weakening the
structure of the Communist
party. By surrounding himself
with mediocre men he is lower-
ing the average intelligence-
level of the leadership of the
U.S.S.R.”
* * *
London “Economist”: “Even
if Mr. Khrushchev has suc-
ceeded in removing another
powerful competitor, thus
claiming many more casualties
than Stalin could claim a 4 a
corresponding period after
Lenin’s death, his position can
still not be compared with
Stalin’s. Mr. Khrushchev is
dealing with a more articulate
and more exacting Russian
public. To consolidate his
position he has now to win the
loyalty of the Russian people.
Indeed, he must rapidly trans-
late into higher living-standards
the technological progress
the Sputnik so dramatically
illustrates. Success in this will
have an important bearing on
the Soviet Union’s external
position as well as on its
domestic political future.
“If the Soviet economy were
to move forward rapidly while
the. economy of the Western
world was retarded by a slump
the attraction of the Soviet
regime would make itself felt
beyond the underdeveloped
countries. But such an advance
in the material conditions of
life could not co-exist for long
with a Byzantine political
system ; some less crude and
antiquated means of assigning
power would have to be found.
‘Khrushchevism’ would quickly
become as obsolete as Stalin-
ism.
“Hard as it is to forecast
what will come, one thing is
clear: the pace of change —
political, as economic—in the
Soviet Union has not slackened.
The half-century of the Soviet
regime will be celebrated in a
country very different from the
Russia of today.”
House of Lords
Reforms
Commenting on changes
proposed for the British
House of Lords, London
“Economist” selects them in
order of importance: “Pay-
ment of expenses, creation of
life-peers, and the admission
of women”:
“The payment of expenses is
aimed at curing the erosion of
regular attenders on the Labor
side which is the main danger


THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Registered Office; 271-279 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30th SEPTEMBER,
1957
LIABILITIES
AUTHORISED CAPITAL—
-20,000,000 Ordinary Shares of £1
«ach 1’M,000,000
ISSUED CAPITAL—
-5,589,037 Ordinary Shares of £1
each, fully paid 5,589,037
7,200,060 Ordinary Shares of £1
each, 12/6d. paid 7,200,000
£12,789,037
Paid-Up Capital 10,089,037
Reserve Fund, including Share Pre-
mium Account £1,008,904,
(used in the business ) ..' ... 7,500,000
Final Dividend Proposed 454,007
Balance of Profit and Loss Account 566,166
Total Shareholders’ Funds ... 18,609,210
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other
Liabilities (including Provisions for
Contingencies) .. 272,576,124
Notes in Circulation 47,478
Balances due to Other Banks ... 255,835
Balances due to Subsidiary Bank-
ing Companies now in course of
liquidation ... ... 286,371
291,775,018
Liabilities under Letters of Credit,
Guarantees, Forward Exchange
Contracts, etc. 29,451,070
£321,226,088
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at
Bankers
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks
Balances with and due from Other
Banks ...
Treasury Bills
Australian Government
Public Securities (at or under market
value)
(j) Australian Govt. Securities
(ji) Other Govt. Securities
(iii) Local and Semi-Governmental
Authorities’ Securities
Special Account with Common-
wealth Bank of Australia
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in Transit
t
13,716,930
6,010,162
971,633
12,000,000
27,858,488
1,361,500
339,792
53,837,000
21,465,094
137,560,599
Loans, Advances and Bills Dis-
counted (after deducting provision for
debts considered bad or doubtful) ... 142,413,811
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites
(at cost less amounts written off) ... 8,253,592
Shares in wholly owned Subsidiary
Company (at cost). (The Company
has made neither profit nor loss) ... 2,000
All Other Assets > 3,545,016
291,775,018
Liabilities of Customers under
Letters of Credit, Guarantees,
Forward Exchange Contracts,
etc. —as per contra 29,451,070
6321,226,088
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR YEAR ENDED 30th SEPTEMBER, 1957
(The Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Figures are stated in Australian Currency, adjusted to the nearest Pound)
To the Shareholders of THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the balances on the books at the Head Office
and with the certified returns from the branches. We have obtained all the information and
explanations we have required and we are of the opinion that the Balance Sheet and Profit and
Loss Account are drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company's
affairs and of the results of the business of the Company for the year according to the best of our
information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books of the Company.
Melbourne, 25th October, 1957.
J. R. BISHOP, F.C.A. (AUST.)\
SHERRARO WARNOCK, F.C.A. (AUST.)/
'Auditors.
before the House now. The
sessional allowance of £3 a
sitting-day for all peers, started
last summer, will not solve this
problem (there are rarely more
than 100 sitting days a year);
and one suspects that the House
will soon be impeded from
functioning properly unless a
score or so of regular attenders
on either side are paid a full
salary of £l5OO-£2OOO a year,
and never mind the rest.”
On the creation of life
peerages, the “Economist”
adds, “The importance is not
mainly that it will clear the way
for the enrolment of a few
people who might refuse a
hereditary peerage on grounds
of principle ; there are fewer
people actually in that category
than claim to be in it. The
importance of the proposed
system is that under it any
Prime Minister will feel freer
to recommend the creation of
more new peerages each year,
without cluttering up future
generations with too many
people entitled to call them-
selves lord. It is because of this
expected higher rate of ennoble-
ment that debates in the House
of Lords are likely to come
gradually to be dominated
more by members who have
made their own mark in this
generation, and less by
members who have merely had
noble ancestors.”
Meanwhile “Manchester
Guardian” gives editorial
notice to an “interesting
scheme” put forward by Mr.
Anthony Wedgwood Benn:
“Quite simply , it is that the
Privy Council should become
the Second Chamber. The
House of Lords would cease
to have legislative functions;
whether to dispense with the
paraphernalia of titles and
other ceremonial trappings
would then be a subsidiary
matter (though it might still
arouse deep feelings).
“The case for the Privy
Council is strong. It has an
even longer history than the
House of Lords, so that tradi-
tionalists should be satisfied.
With 300 councillors it is about
the right size. The quality of
its present membership needs
no arguing; incidentally it
includes about 120 peers, so
that continuity from the old
House would be assured.
“There would be no problem
about recruiting new members ;
there would be the flow of
former Ministers leaving the
Commons (those Privy Coun-
cillors remaining in the
Commons would naturally be
excluded from attending) and
the prerogative power to create
new members would remain as
at present.
“Not least among the advan-
tages would be the right of
Privy Councillors from other
Commonwealth countries to
attend. As a revising Chamber
it would be fully as competent
as the present House of Lords.
As a forum for informed
debate it should be even better.
“Perhaps the idea is too
radical for the existing Govern-
ment. It ought surely to appeal
to a future Labor Ministry
which will probably have even
greater need of another
Chamber to relieve the pressure
on the Commons but can
scarcely condone the continued
existence of an unreformed
Lords.”
Various Voices
Prime Minister Macmillan:
“Nobody nan deny that it has
been the West’s possession of
the bomb which has deterred
and still deters the Soviet Union
from open aggression. Even
the most recent developments,
however startling, have not
altered this strategic fact.”
* * *
John Boyd- Carpenter
(Minister of Pensions in
Britain’s Conservative Govern-
ment): “We can employ all the
clever men in the world to
devise ingenious (pension)
schemes, but they will all
depend on our ability to pro-
duce and sell in the markets of
the world the right goods at
the right prices on the light
delivery-dates.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Pay and the Professions
There is another angle from
which the matter of pay and
the professions (B. 18/9/’57)
can be viewed
Young men who study at
schools and universities to the
age, say, of 22 have to be kept
in food, ~ clothing and shelter
partly at the expense of their
parents and partly by the rest
of the community. They only
enjoy this privilege because
other young men are at
work producing goods or
wealth, and without a
sufficient number of pro-
ducers the burden could not
be carried. In other words the
professional man has had a
large amount of money spent
on him and has given nothing
in return, in contrast to the
tradesman, who has had to
earn his keep.
When the professional man
compares his position with
that of a tradesman he ignores
all the disadvantages of the
artisan, who has no permanent
employment. Yet the lowest-
paid agricultural scientist at
£1560 a year receives 50 per
cent, more than the average
tradesman, and a lot of extra
privileges as well.
To state that the disparity
between the unskilled and the
professions is less today than
in the past only indicates that
those in the professions were
too highly paid in the bad old
days.
In these days of pressure-
groups it would be well for
professional men, particularly
teachers, to remember that the
world will not take them at
their own valuation. As a
tradesman I cannot get paid for
what I know, but only for
work that I actually perform.
—Carpenter (N.S.W.).
Sales-tax on Cars
Sales-tax on cars has a
number of objectionable
features —it is an indirect tax
the incidence of which is
seldom recognised by the con-
sumer ; it presses hardest on
breadwinners with young
families ; and it results in many
business firms becoming un-
paid tax-collectors for the
Government
If there must be sales-tax,
however, it is grossly unfair to
discriminate against the motor
industry. Chief Justice Mar-
shall of the U.S.A. is credited
with the dictum, “the power to
tax is the power to destroy,”
and this has become very
important to the industry.
The sales-tax of 30 per cent,
on cars (and 16 per cent, on
commercial vehicles) has not
only reduced sales, but has
“The remarkable part , Missus, is the Way they meet dead in the middle”.
also caused widespread un-
employment among skilled
workers in the industry.
It is difficult to reconcile this
with the Government’s pro-
fession of faith in free enter-
prise and its encouragement of
expansion of the motor
industry (in which more than
£ 100-million capital has been
invested in Australia). Aus-
tralia urgently needs capital for
the development of industry
and public works, but overseas
investors will be apprehensive
if the Government stifles an
industry after £lOO million has
been invested in it.
The cost of road-transport
is an important part of our
cost-structure. When the Mel-
bourne Board of Works drew
up its master-plan four years
ago it made a detailed survey
of transport and stated that
one-third of the entire income in
Victoria was spent on road-
transport for the movement of
people and goods. Subjecting
the motor industry to heavy
sales-tax thus has a seriously
adverse effect on our economy.
—Fragmos (Vic.).
Disposals
Not only the Defence
Services are guilty of needless
buying (B. 30/10/’57). The
N.S.W. Railways Department
recently called tenders for the
purchase of approximately
240,000 super-feet of hemlock,
an imported timber usually used
for case-making, and not a bit
better for any purpose than
locally-grown Monterey pine.
Possibly the sale follow's on
the recent Ebasco inquiry, but
why should such a quantity of
timber that obviously was never
really needed have been
purchased from any source, let
alone from dollar sources? —
No Go (N.S.W.).
Paperbacks
Despite the distractions of
comics, TV and such publi-
cations as “Weekend” and
“Crowd,” Australians are still
reading plenty of good litera-
ture.
I noted with pleasure the
remarks of the sales-director
of Pan Books, Ltd., Ralph
Vernon-Hunt, who said on a
visit to Australia that Aus-
tralian readers were “showing
an increasing interest in good
books and a growing reluc-
tance to buy trashy literature.”
He said that Australia was
the biggest overseas market for
Pan books* and added that he
thought paperbacks (which
include Penguins, Pelicans, etc.)
were- bringing good books to
thousands of readers not
interested in buying dearer
books. — Kejokada (Vic.).
Australia and the U.S.
“H.A.F.’s’’ comparison of
U.S. and Australian living-
standards (B. 23/10/’57) is a
mighty oversimplification, and
his ideas of international
exchange and economics are
somewhat' elementary if he
believes that “a working-man
in the U.S. takes home three
times as much as his Australian
counterpart for the same
work.”
To start with, the value of a
man’s pay-packet is its pur-
chasing-power where he lives.
The average skilled worker in
Australia draws somewhere
between £2O and £25 a week.
If that man were doing the
same job in Pittsburgh or San
Francisco he would un-
doubtedly pull down about
one-hundred dollars per. But
“H.A.F.'s” list of what can be
done with a hundred bucks in
the U.S.A., 1957, is a little off
the beam.
Whereas a car in Australia
costs the skilled man roughly
a year’s pay, it is granted his
American opposite can buy a


■v)
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
PURVEYORS OF MOTOR LUBRICANTS
CC. WAKEFIELD 8 CO LTO. LONDON W. 14
The Chairman said ...
“Recently, a report of the Co-ordinating Research
Council in the U.S.A., described the results of ex-
tensive road tests on 295 cars of 16 makes. The
object was to investigate cam and tappet wear
which had become troublesome in the U.S.A. and
elsewhere. The results of this elaborate investiga-
tion proved that zinc dialkyldithiophosphate is the
best preventive of cam and tappet wear.
Your Company manufactures this additive and I
am pleased to disclose that it has been used in a
suitable proportion in Castrol for the last eight
years * •
Extract from a statement submitted at the
40th Annual General Meeting of C. C. Wakefield & Co. Ltd *
by the Chairman of Directors, Leslie W. Farrow, C.B.E,


new vehicle for approximately
half his annual income. The
American is also able to
acquire certain electrical
devices for a smaller ratio of
his year’s haul. But —and this is
a big but —the same bloke is
not as well off as his Aussie
counterpart when it comes to
the basic necessities —food,
clothing and shelter.
If “H.A.F.” doubts this, let
him drop into a New York
butcher and order a “nice”
steak for dinner. Or, perhaps,
buy an equal value off-the-
hook suit. He will get a shock.
And that’s not mentioning the
costs of building a house in the
U.S —a home capable of with-
standing the freezing winter
which envelops more than half
the country.
It’s true that the 160-odd-
million citizens of the U.S.A.
produce a prodigious amount
of steel, motor-cars, TV-sets,
etc. It is also true that those
gigantic mills keep the
American citizen hopping from
the cradle to the grave, with a
wary eye on the Joneses down
the street. If he doesn’t trade-
in the “old ’57 heap” next year
for a longer, snappier job ; if
the TV-mast isn’t quite as high
as the Empire State building ;
or if the deep-freeze won’t hold
two steers and a paddock of
peas—well, in that neighbor-
hood he’s slipping. But it’s
certainly great business for the
mills!
As for taxes, Australians
don’t come off too badly, even
with their share of the
Colombo Plan. At least they
don’t have to “lob-in” to keep
half the world in guns and
butter.
I hope and believe that Aus-
tralia will continue its progress,
but certainly not to ' that
“summit Paradise” with which
“H.A.F.” credits the U.S.A.
—A. H. R. Cann (N.S.W.).
Exams
Many Queensland school-
teachers are inclined to abolish
school examinations, but to
those of us outside the teach-
ing profession it seems that
such a move would mean the
dropping of standards. Will it
be fair to let loose on the
employing community half-
baked “scholars” who have
simply “gone to school” and
who will leave without any
sort of a certificate? An
examination at least sets a
standard.
Courts and public offices
exact a high standard from
those with whom they deal. Let
a professional man make one
small error in a document or
form, and back it comes from
the judge, t the magistrate or
C.P.S. The high standard
demanded in these places is
only achieved by passing exami-
nations.
Today’s young people have
so many outside distractions
that they need the competitive
spirit of examinations to act as
an incentive to concentration
on school-work. The average
16-year-old today,, even with
a pass in English in the
Junior examination, invariably
drives the boss crazy with
mistakes in spelling.
How much worse will it be
if these ex-students are foisted
upon him after merely sitting
in a class for several years?
They may get away with their
ignorance for a time, but
sooner or later they will go
out into the unemployment
queue. —S. C. (Q.).
Surfers' Paradise
Having lately spent three
weeks at Surfers’ Paradise at
considerable expense, 1 can’t
altogether agree with “Waddlin’
Willie’s” wholesale enthusiasm.
What about the night-club
where one must supply one’s
own beer, but pay a “corkage”
fee of 2s. 6d. a bottle for the
privilege of having a waiter
remove the cork? What about
the place that advertises “no
cover-charge’’ for meals, but
adds a 10s. surcharge—working-
out at £2 10s. extra for a
dinner for five?
The climate is near enough
to perfect, the setting is
wonderful, and if you like
gaiety, glamor and glitter, the
place should satisfy you. But
there is as much fleecing there
as at any other resort, and it
will continue until visitors
refuse to patronise the places
and people who practise it. —-
D.M. (Vic.).
Blood-tests
Blood-tests for alcohol might
carry weight in Victorian
courts (B. 16/10/’57), but I’ve
had legal advice that Sydney’s
petty sessions ignore them.
As the Black Maria recently
conveyed me to Sydney Central
Police Station I gleefully
dreamed of spending the
damages I’d surely get for
wrongful arrest and false
imprisonment.
In the chargeroom I care-
fully noted clerical errors made
by booking officers; then I
settled back in the drunks’ cell
while my wife„and two friends
pointed out to the station
sergeant that if I was under the
influence, so were they, for
they’d also had two glasses
each.
N. S. Wales law is that
drunks must be kept in pro-
tective custody for a minimum
of four hours, and that every-
body taken into custody must
be fingerprinted. However,
Mum and my friends were such
nuisances that I was out in two
hours without being printed.
Three hours and 20 miles
from the arrest I dragged a
drink-hating doctor and his
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 461
ACROSS
I—Not once (but twice) in the outback. (5, 5)
6 —American editor is employed. (4)
10— Will it be a suiting material? (5)
11 — This makes a black walk slowly into a country town
in N.S.W. (9)
12 — Swings from a course in verse. (5)
13 —Gas the favorite part you
associate with a thousand. (9)
15- —Short-shadow time makes one tin
do. (8) _
17 —Confuse cowboy Tom of many
years ago—l,oo9, to be precise.
13)
20— lurku is another name for this
Finnish place in black. (3)
21 — Region which makes Diana very
firm and severe in policing rules.
(8)
24 — He might pilot one into the cattle
isle. (9)
25 — Town near Calcutta to closely
embrace 51. (5)
26 A five-pointed star to write a
label on a wootgrower. (9)
27 Though serve be bad
The point is had.. (5)
28 — Elizabethan dramatist and author.
(4)
29 — -Buck’s hen character immortalised
by Fenimore Cooper. (10)
DOWN
1 — Feature of Australian nomen-
clature by whidh Vienna’s meat
is minced. (6, 5)
2 It helps to give variety to one’s
sound Sinatra fight. (5, 3)
3 The electoral officers keep such a
fine car. (5)
4 A prankish adventure with the
spade ace. (8)
5 The essential element of the
ego. (6)
7 Begotten in South Australia, and
put to the sword. (6)
8 — Kick the bucket ;it helps to make
an impression. (3)
9 Father Roderick and I rue the
waggish corrupter of other’s
writings. (8)
14—Ben ever a climber. (11)
16—Air biles irfto a town by the Sea
of Galilee. (8)
18- Simone changed an inappro-
priate name. (8)
19 — Meggs half of 28-across is given
in a cautious soft-stepping
manner. (8)
22 — Miss Berger is between five and
fifty of the spring. (6)
23 Back me against Queen Elizabeth
and the Earth goddess, and come
out. (6)
25 A sort of house companion of
Hume is curtailed. (5)
26 — Circuit upset the old man over
fifty, friend. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 460


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines).
L. E. THORPE, MANAGER.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSON &
-O’SUIUvXN
-. pm™ ~
'Sem
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
* Printers, Paper Merchants,
\ Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
I TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
wife, a nursing-Sister, from
bed and demanded that they
take the blood that would prove
my sobriety. Both stated that
they would willingly make a
statement in my favor.
The pathologist whd de-
Aected a “negligible” amount
of alcohol in the-blood-sample
advised the doctor that his
experience in similar cases was
“If they're going to request books, I wish they'd
collect them."
such that he would have to be
dragged to court to defend his
analysis.
Next morning a barrister
with 30 years’ experience
behind him advised me not to
defend the charge, as it was
practically impossible to beat
it in a Sydney court, despite
my three medical and three lay
witnesses.
“Forfeit your ten-bob bail
and try to forget it,” he said,
“If you plead not guilty it’ll
cost you about £lOO and a
week off work.”
I wonder if that’s how
Sydney’s policemen reach their
set quotas of arrests?
Lionel Barrie (N.S.W.)i
* ime-payment
This t.-p. (B. 9/10/’57) might
be all right in its place, and
admittedly many people today
are having things their fore-
fathers would never have had
the money for, but surely the
retailers are forcing the pace
too much.
Once retailers always gave
the cash-price in their adver-
tising—indeed it was featured,
with the deposit and weekly
payments near by as a kind of
second method of purchase,
Today the reverse is the case,
The ss. weekly is featured, the
deposit near by (but much
smaller), and the cash-price
almost hidden if advertised at
all.
Only recently, while thinking
of buying a secondhand car
and looking through the classi-
fied advertisements one Satur-
day, I found the majority of
secondhand-car dealers men-
tioned only the deposit and
weekly payments.
Aren’t we going a little too
far with the t.-p.—or are
retailers finding that money-
lending pays better than
merchandising? Waddlin’
Willie (Vic.).,
W. M. Hughes
In discussing the late W. M.
Hughes’s flamboyance with the
truth (B. 6/11/’57) “M.H.E.”
recalled to me the chapter
entitled “Wide Bay” in the
former Prime Minister’s Crusts
and Crusades.
Well to the north of
Tewantin, in land “flat as a
pancake,” for example, he
could (he says) perceive “in the
far distance, miles away, the
Glasshouse Mountains.” The
fact is that between Tewantin
and those mountains lie miles
and miles of the higher
Blackall Ranges, a very rugged
part of _the Queensland coast.
According to Billy’s account,
he could see what would be
about 60 miles away, whereas
at Nambour, a mere 20 miles
away, only the tops of Glass-
house Mountains are per-
ceptible, and then only if high
hills are climbed.
I grew up among those
ranges, and that item from
Crusts and Crusades made a
very unfayorable impression as
to W.M.H.’s veracity as a
raconteur. — Map,k Heim (Q.).
The A.B.C.
As M. F. Dixon says
(B. 16/10 / ’57), men who
started their broadcasting
careers as sporting - com-
mentators now hold the highest
administrative posts in the
A.8.C., but there are good
reasons for that. The men
concerned came in on the
ground floor during the
formative period, when the
A.B.C. had little to broadcast
other than music, drama and
outdoor events like sport,
Anzac Day marches, and so
on.
Another potent reason was
the ability of the men
mentioned, which was proved
again and again during their
upward climb. At the outset,
very few full-time members of
the A.B.C.’s staff had had any
executive experience.
On the cultural side, the
commission had to lean very
heavily on the universities and
the education departments,
with the result that for some
years it was in danger of
becoming a university-ridden
show.
When I joined the A.B.C. as
a news-commentator in 1933, a
professor of the State uni-
versity was doing regular
weekly commentaries on
current news. When, a few
years later, pending the estab-
lishment of the commission's
independent news - service, a
stop-gap service made up of
items from the dailies rewritten
for broadcasting was instituted,
another professor, inexperi-
enced in journalism, was put
in charge of this work.
The foregoing applied only
to my own State, and the
position described did not last
very long. A vestige of the old
system may be noticed in the
daily note s s on news s given by
various university characters
whose knowledge of the
matters discussed in no way
transcends that of the commis-
sion's journalists, many of
whom are also university
graduates. — Pip Tok.


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
COUNTRY WOOLCLASSING-STORES
TN 1955, having spent some
years in Sydney woolclass-
ing and sorting, at both
repackers’ and woollen mills, I
decided to go to the country
and open my own classing and
pooling store. It was to be a
small edition of the city
repacking stores and run on
similar lines. I’m sure, on
results, it proved to be as
efficient.
The idea received little con-
structive support, but being
from the country myself I was
acutely aware of the help that
the small woolman needs in the
preparation of his clip for
market. Too often he is left
at the mercy of a classer, or
is dependent on city repacking
stores. These stores do a good
job, but they are remote from
the grower and his problems
during the
grower doesn’t want to be
treated as an abstract figure ; he
is a very individual and
interested person who has
spent 12 months’ thought and
care in the growing of his clip,
and he feels that not to be
Whilst excellent for
combatting - lice and
keds and as protec-
tion against blowfly
strike dieldrin and
aldrin sheep dips do
not destroy itch mite.
Pest-control experts
are therefore advising
a return to arsenical
dips in addition to
dieldrin or aldrin
dips until a suitable
all-purpose dip is
introduced. The most
progressive graziers
also recommend
Elastrator Rubber
Rings for marking
and tailing lambs.
The Elastrator
method cuts down
losses arising from
shock and loss of con-
dition due to set-back
and disease.
active at the coup de grace of
his year’s work is unsatis-
factory.
I chose the Cowra-
Canowindra (N.S.W.) district as
a suitable place to begin opera-
tions. The district is an excel-
lent woolgrowing and fat-lamb-
raising area, giving a propor-
tion of Merino and crossbred
wools necessary for the effi-
cient running of the store. The
first difficulty was to find a
shed large enough to allow for
a free layout of wool-bins. A
wool-and-skin-buyer in Cowra
said part of his building could
be rented. On thinking the
matter over, he reduced the
shed-space to such a small area
I decided to look elsewhere.
The only shed of any size
was at Billimari, a small town-
ship between Canowindra and
Cowra. It was out of the way,
a serious disadvantage, but its
cement floor, loading-facilities
and proximity to rail convinced
me that I would find nothing
better. If I didn’t allow a build-
up of bales there was adequate
room for bin-space, and for
classing and sorting.
The public had to be made
aware that the store existed,
and this was not easy because
there was nothing to show until
the general shearing started.
Even then there was a certain
diffidence among farmers. The
problem was to get some
farmer fo start the ball rolling
—it’s not easy to be different
from your fellows!
Circulars giving full
particulars of operations and
charges were posted to
growers, and it’s proof of the
interest farmers have in such
a scheme that they kept the
circulars for ages. I also
advertised in the local press
and in the window of the one
store in Billimari.
Orders came in, and the first
year netted 300 bales of wool,
which was very satisfactory.
Most of this wool came from
small clips, but there were a
few larger clips. The store
suited the small man.
Having the wool-store close
to the grower was one of its
main attractions. Growers
could come and discuss theiF
wool problems —and the time
of day if they wished. Better
still, they could see their wool
classed and sorted and follow
the basic principles that had
escaped them before. Being on
the spot, I could work
smoothly into their shearing-
schedules.
The understanding of the
man on the land about the
handling of his clip when it
goes to a repacker or is blended
is usually limited. I was
astounded at the ignorance of
men who were keen business-
men in other aspects of their
farm-management, but who
"Th' nuts an' bolts'll come in handy , and th' rest
We can sell for scrap."
blindly consigned their wool
to a store and thought no more
about it.
Preparation of wool for
market is a real and vital
problem to the grower, and I
feel that the real answer lies in
country classing - and - pooling
stores, which will be links and
information centres between
the grower and preparation of
his wool for market on the one
hand, and the woolselling
broker and the sale of wool on
the other hand.
The question is often put to
me, “Does the idea of a
country classing-and-pooling
store work?” I can say “Yes”
to that without any hesitation.
- The main reason-is that all
wool passing through the store
comes from a localised area. It
has grown under the same
seasonal conditions, and, com-
pared to the variety of wools
from all parts of the State
handled by city repackers,
variation is reduced to a
minimum. This minimum of
variation allows more bif lots
of wool to be made, and helps
in the elimination of star-lots,
which- are worrying the wool
trade today.
In the Billimari wool-store
I did the work myself: weigh-
ing into store and out, classing,
weighing into bins, pressing
and so on, and I lent a hand
to put the wool on rail. And,
of course, there were the usual
figures and accounts to keep
abreast of. But the work was
interesting, and I enjoyed it.
This personal attention to
detail was another major factor
in the success of the store. Any-
one who has worked in city
repacking-stores knows the
endless conflict between over-
lookers of different sections
who are sending wool into
common pool-bins. The more
people introduced into a system
of that type, the greater the
possibility of error.
I firmly believe there is a
future for country classing-
and-pooling stores, especially
ip conjunction with shed-class-
ing or buying. And I know
from personal experience that
the man on the land has a very
real interest in them.
P.V.
Keeping Dingoes Out
“San Luis Rey”: Quite a few
people in western Queensland
have been using the electric-
wire around their netting to
keep out dingoes. As I have
been using the device for two
years now, perhaps my experi-
ence may be of help to others.
It’s no use slinging a wire


EARTH-MOVER
SAW BENCH
ROTARY HOE
WINCH
SPIKE
TOOTH HARROW
>e
TRANSPORTER
DISC PLOUGH
BUCK RAKE
P
-GRAIN-DRILL
EARTH SCOOP ■ MOULDBOARD PLOUGH
Anywhere power can be used
FIUS THE BILL
n
RIGID
MULTI
TINE
CULTIVATOR
PURPOSE
SPRAY
MOWER
m
The Prime Mover in
6 models from £BlO
upwards - and a
range of over 100
Impiemenfs and
Attachments to
choose from!
With the FERGUSON SYSTEM you get:
# Efficiency of operation.
# Power without inbuilt weight.
# Simplicity of handling.
# Flexibility and manoeuvrability.
# Maximum economy.
9 The most advanced hydraulics
yet introduced.
# Scientifically designed, quality
built implements.
# Low initial cost high resalo
value.
# On the farm service second to none.
r Ask for a demonstration and you, too, will be convinced.
BRITISH TRACTOR & IMPLEMENTS
PTY. LTD,
Sydney Street, New Farm, Brisbane. ’Phone: LW 1011


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque / money-order for
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
RECIPIENT: .
ADDRESS ..
DONOR: .
ADDRESS
GIFT SUBSCRIPTION: If the above is a Christmas gift
an appropriate Greetings-card will be sent direct to the
recipient announcing your gift and signed on your behalf.
SIGN CARD :
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques
around the boundary and
sitting back waiting for the
dingoes to become discouraged.
For the first six months one is
nearly driven crazy by the,
shorts caused by pigtails of
wire on the netting-fence
touching the live wire—it is
hard to belieye there are so
many; and every animal in the
bush seems to be in conspiracy
to knock the wire off the
insulators. But, after a time,
all the pigtails have been found,
all the animals have been stung,
and shorts only occur occasion-
ally.
The electric-wire won’t keep
dingoes from climbing over a
fence unless you electrify the
top wire as well. This is quite
simply done by insulating the
top wire (usually barb) front
the rest of the fence and bring-
ing a cable from the live wire
up to the top wire. West of the
Divide, if hardwood posts are
used no insulators are needed.
Another thing, west of the
Divide you must have a
metallic earth that is “earthed”
to the netting: a ground earth
is useless.
Steel posts are placed about
60yds. to 80yds. apart, a foot
from the netting, and the
electric wire must be about a
foot from the ground.
The insulators are placed
facing the netting—this facili-
tates cultivating around with
a two-way disk.
Either a switch or a break-
able joint is made in the wire
every two miles to facilitate the
finding of shorts.
One would naturally think
that once a dingo was stung
he wouldn’t go near the fence
again" They know the bite is in
the wire and they will go, to the
river-crossings, or wherever
the wire doesn’t cover the fence.
So look to those river-crossings.
We use double - banked
cypress-pine logs. Those
barriers at the crossings have
to be good.
Pasture Worries
“Pat O’Day”: Here on the
N. S. Wales south-west slopes
(including Gundagai and
border-Riverina districts), at
time of writing, things don’t
look so good. Not nearly as
bad as in some other parts of
the State, of course, but, even
with the approximate 60 points
just fallen, natural grasslands
can’t last much longer without
substantial rain. There is very
little “supered” country around
here, a marked contrast to the
Albury-Holbrook-Culcairn dis-
trict, where, even in the good
years, land has been methodi-
cally supered annually.
Junee, a nearby district
where a good deal of pasture-
improvement has been done,
although it hasn’t a sub.-clover
rainfall, has some good fat-
lambs. I’m thinking particu-
larly of R. Hughes’s property.
Before the drought really sets
in—that is, assuming the fore-
casts for good rain in Decem-
ber are proved correct —Mr.
Hughes will have his property,
and stock, in pretty fair shape.
He is sending his lambs up
into the Batlow hill-country,
This, normally orchard-
country, can carry six sheep to
the acre in parts; especially
where there are turnips (a
failure to the growers but a
boon to the grazier). Last year
Batlow had lOOin. —but that, of
course, was an abnormal
season. The yearly average, I
suppose, would be around
40in.
Southdown lambs that were
in only medium condition this
year on Mr. Hughes’s property
have picked up wonderfully in
a few weeks, approaching
really prime condition.
Around Gundagai graziers
are putting their sheep, off-
shears, on the road to spell
their overstocked country. The
Government reserves at Batloyy,
and the higher country at
Tumbarumba, are a drover’s
dream. But the sheep have to
be kept moving, and more
mobs will clip the stock-routes
pretty drastically. Anyone with
some good high country leased
is lucky.
Graziers in the Gundagai
district rarely need to inocu-
late, but now their sheep are
moving into a different type of
country they have to inocu-
late before the sheep go on
the roads.
Three to four months should
give this country a good
spell. Then, if rain comes in
December, sheep put back in
February should do fairly well.
They’ll be in medium-store con-
dition by then, from travelling,
but should rapidly improve in
their home paddocks.
Lambs for London
“Bolivar”: Westralia is
making something of a name
for itself in the handling and
transporting of Jivestock en
masse.
There is the Air Beef scheme,
which is getting ready to
expand into something bigger,
the Kimberley road and- 'rail
undertaking, which has sent
some 3000 cattle 1500 miles
from the Port Hedland area to
Perth in the last-three months,
and now L. J. Stacey has turned
up again with his annual con-
tribution of a train-load of
export lambs, all oil the one
property.
Stacey was the first to start
this bulk movement, in 1942.
He and his sons, Bryant and
Peter, farm at Quairading, in
the wheatbelt. On October 15
their sixteenth train-load of fat-
lambs, 5210 of them, were
slaughtered for export at
Robbs Jetty, near Fremantle.
This tally was very slightly
below that of 5275 for the
previous year, which was their
record.
Over the 16 years the
Staceys have bred, fattened and
exported a total 62,706 lambs,
which must be an Australian
record for production from one
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(7/11/’57)
Queensland should get good general rains during
December, and there is a likelihood of flooding in' many
areas. Rainfall may again be below normal during 1958.
There is a likelihood of further good rains in northern
N.S.W. during the last week in November, followed by
general rains during December in most of the State, with
the heaviest falls in the northern areas.
Moderately good rain is likely in Victoria’s central
division, Gippsland, north-east and western division,
although the Mallee, Wimmera and north country may be
confined to light to moderate, patchy rains.
Apart from variable storms, rainfall should be poor in
South Australia during December. However, some variation
could occur, as one cycle indicates a wet month.
The Kimberleys of Western Australia should get
general rains, mainly below normal, in December, and good
rains may occur on the goldfields and south-west. Rainfall
should be light elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


PC
IW
U
ec
LviyiW*
*
-0
o
ould
you like good
whisky better?
If whisky is really good,
made in Scotland—can one
ask for anything more ? We
think you can—that it
should bear the name
‘Belt’s’. We are independent
distillers. Independent to
go on making the finest
whisky our long experience
can produce. Buy a bottle
of Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
Taste it critically and see if
it is not Scotch Whisky at
its spirited best.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELL’S
010 SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur Bell <t-Sons Ltd., Distillers,
Perth, Scotland. Established 1825
property, and may well be a
world record.
The whole operation reflects
a lot of credit, not only on
the Staceys, but on the often-
maligned W-A. Government
Railways, which transported
the lambs, and the W.A. Meat
Export Works, which treated
them.
The lambs were drafted off
the ewes on the morning of
Monday, October 14, and by
the middle of the following
afternoon they had been loaded
into the special train of 43
trucks, transported 145 miles,
slaughtered, dressed, wrapped,
and stored in the cool-
chambers.
These lambs are not bred
and fattened on the lush
pastures of the south-west:
the rainfall for the last two
years at Quairading has been
less than 7 in. a year.
The breeding - ewes are
Romney Marsh-Merino and
Border Leicester Merino. They
are joined to Southdown rams,
and the lambs marked run at
about 90 per cent.
The excellence of the
organisation ensures that the
lambs do not waste and lose
their bloom, nor is there any
bruising of the flesh or staining
of the skins. Over the 16
years of operations not a single
lamb has been lost.
Mr. Stacey (senior) inspected
the killing and grading of the
lambs. He was pleased with
the weights and the general
condition, though he thought
that if they had been sent in
a week earlier they might have
been a little better.
The grading worked out at:
2723 first-quality, 52 per cent. ;
1600 second-quality, 31 per
cent.; 811 third-quality, 16
per cent. ; 76 rejects, 1 per cent.
The average weight was
33.71 b. This was a fraction
lower than last year, but there
was a considerable improve-
ment in the grading.
Accent on Qualify
“T e r m i t e”: Flourmillers
and < -"Tsumers have every
reason to be pleased with Aus-
tralia’s two new wheats- —
N. S. Wales’s Winglen and
Victoria’s yet-unnamed “Z 22”
—of which the quality of grain
is as good as any of
southern Australia’s commer-
cial varieties. Victorians are
told that Z 22 has the best
combination of yield and
quality of any of the State’s
wheats to date.
Winglen matures a week
later than Winter Minflor,
The Bulletin, November 20, 1957
which it is expected to replace,
and has the added advantage
that it is more frost-resistant
than any of the other varieties
generally grown in north-west
N. S. Wales. It also resists
flag-smut and many kinds of
rust. Its grain does not
shatter much when threshed.
The variety has a prostrate,
early growth, but it tillers well
and develops plenty of foliage
later. Its yield is similar to
Celebration, Panther and
Sabre.
Z 22 is a full brother to
Olympic (Baldmin x Quadrat),
which was named a year ago.
It matures early, has a creamy
straw, threshes well, and has
other good agronomic
characters. Its popularity will
depend on the incentive which
growers are given to grow
quality grain.
If producers continue to be
paid for quantity alone, Z 22
has a big task to replace
Insignia, which is grown on
about three-quarters of the Vic-
torian Mallee’s wheat-acreage
and nearly half of the State’s
wheat-acreage.
Mustard
“Bilwon”: A new crop is
being tried-out in Queensland
on a commercial scale for the
first time. Over 100 acres of
mustard have been planted this
year on the black - soiled
Darling Downs.
Farmers are hoping the crop
will pay-off better than wheat.
There is an excellent demand
for the seed, from condiment-
manufacturers all over the
Commonwealth.
Four varieties of mustard
have been planted White
Mustard, Montana Brown,
California Trieste, and Trowse.
The first three have been
tried in Australia before, but
seed for Trowse had to be
brought here from England.
It has been a hard year on
the Darling Downs, and Trowse
did not stand up to the dry
weather as well as the other
species. The best varieties so
tar seem to be the dwarf White
and the tall Montana Brown.
Harvesting has started. The
better varieties are expected to
yield up to scwt. per acre. In
a favorable season, 9 to lOcwt.
wouldn’t be an overestimation.
The crops have all been
giown in well-worked black
soil. The seed-drill was set to
plant roughly 61b. of seed to the
acre. Planting was shallow,
with 6in. intervals between the
drills. The paddocks were
rolled after planting to consoli-
date the seed-bed and give an
even germination.
The deep-rooting plants were
able to withstand the dry
weather better than shallow-
rooting crops, and reached the
flowering stage with no set-
back in growth or damage from
insects. Aphis invaded the
paddocks as the seed was
setting, but a boom-spraying
with Gammexane 7 soon
dispelled them.
It will be interesting to
follow the progress of mustard
as a commercial crop. Apart
from the demand for the seed,
which can be harvested with
the ordinary header, the plants
are relished by stock, particu-
larly growing bullocks.
Serrated Tussock
“Congress”: Already a
major problem in South
America, New Zealand and
N. S. Wales, serrated tussock
has been found in two areas
within 20 miles of Melbourne ;
it could be colonising other
parts of the State to which it
has been carried by stock.
Vigorous and aggressive, the
tussock holds little food-value
for stock, which don’t like it,
anyway. Burning seems to do
it more good than harm. Small
patches can be exterminated by
costly spraying, but the best
answer seems to be the estab-
lishment of improved-pasture,
using good seed-mixtures and
plenty of super., plus whatever
other materials (such as
molybdenum) the soil may lack.
New Zealanders have found
that establishing pasture after
cultivation is much more satis-
factory than seeding from the
air, especially where soil-
fertility is low. In N. S. Wales,
too, best results have come
from ploughing the weed under
and establishing a good pasture
on top of it.
Reploughing increases the
danger of bringing the seeds
back to the surface. From
experience elsewhere, Vic-
torians would do well to use
every possible way of prevent-
ing the weed from gaining a
hold. Prevention is still much
better than cure.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Twenty nationalities were represented
at the Christmas-party (the first of the
season) given by the Good Neighbor
Council of N.S.W. at the Feminist Club
early in the week. Mrs. Gertrude
Melville, M.L.C., vice-president of the
council, welcomed the guests, and secre-
tary Mrs. Margaret Watts sped the after-
noon’s entertainment along. Musical
items were given by Lilian Temperley and
Olga Pijols, and special exotic biscuits
and almond chocolate-cake had been
made for the occasion by Mrs. J. Szekely
and Mrs. 1. A. Listwan.
☆ ☆ ☆
The grounds of Loreto Convent
(Kirribilli) looked especially lovely for the
garden-party held to celebrate the con-
vent’s golden jubilee, the jacarandas in
full bloom combining with the pink
oleanders against the beautiful Harbor
setting. The guest-of-honor, Bishop J.
Carroll, was welcomed by Mother
Superior Can ice, and greeting the ex-
students was Mother Philomena Heaton,
whose father had purchased the original
Milson home which is still part of the
convent buildings. Among those present
were Dr. and Mrs. Tom Bateman (who
assisted Mother Superior in entertaining
the official-party at afternoon-tea), Mrs.
A. Naish (who was the first president of
the ex-students), and Mr. and Mrs.
Murray Curtis, of Mudgee.
V- V V
English actress Margaret Rutherford
and her husband Stringer Davis gave
poetry-readings at this month’s literary-
luncheon in aid of the N.S.W. Society for
Crippled Children. Miss Rutherford,
who chose poetry by Walter de la Mare
and D. H. Lawrence, included an original
verse by her husband, “The Freedom of
the Desert.” Mr. Davis said that he had
written some verse as a contribution to the
theme “Our Changing Cities” when he
and his wife had opened Caltex Art
Exhibition the day before ; “But nobody
asked me to speak!” The verse began:
So green grew the rushes the rJshcuttcrs cut
In those sylvan and solitary days of
pre-Sput . . .
Needless to say there was a particularly
good attendance at the luncheon, and
worth adding that it was a particularly
well-dressed one, too. Noteworthy was
Mrs. Bob Shaw, who wore a “sack” in
cream linen and looked very smart in it.
V V V
Shirley Bassey, star of the Tivoli’s
lively new show, comes from Wales, and
is said to be Britain’s answer to Eartha
Kitt, whom she certainly resembles. At
the party given for her during the week
by David N. Martin and Philips
Industries (who record her songs) she
said that she was very fond of swimming,
but had heard that there were lots of
sharks here and couldn’t go surfing,
because her manager wouldn’t let her
“do anything dangerous.” Very young
(scarcely 21), Shirley Bassey has a voice
of great expressiveness and strength. With
her on the programme is Greek dancer
Lili Berde, to whom the Greek com-
munity of Sydney made a presentation
on the opening night—two floral arrange-
ments, 4ft. high, in the letters L.B.
Beatrice Audet telephoned from London
fo announce to her mother, Mrs. L.
Audet, of Killara, that she has become
engaged to lan Hamilton, whose parents
are Mr. and Mrs. Syd. Hamilton, of
Brisbane. Beatrice, who went abroad
recently, is continuing her ballet studies
in London, where her fiance is attached
to an advertising firm. Photo by Norton
Trevaire.
Tt seems scarcely likely that fairytales
with a scientific slant, as suggested by
an American scientist during the week,
would survive long. The element of the
wondrous unknown would be missing.
The only scientific fairytales that could
survive would follow a period of destruc-
tion and a Dark Age of ignorance. Then
men and women, emerging from this
Age, would repeat to their little ones
tales remembered from their grandparents
of a time when a little dog called Laika
flew round and round the earth in a
moon ; and the scientific analytic minds
of the new Age would discount such
fairytales.
V
Hints, for Christmas decorations given
by Mrs. Wilfred Arlom in her talk to
the Garden Club on Thursday included
weleome-wreaths made from wire coat-
hangers (bent round into a circle) and
decorated with ivy, camellia- or
magnolia-leaves. Matchboxes and lip-
stick-containers wrapped in red cello-
phane make miniature gift-packages and
bon-bons to hang on the wreath, and
glitter can be sprinkled on the leaves
here and there. Another hint was to beat
up Lux flakes with a little water and
scatter it on logs in the fireplace for
snow. Mrs. Arlom said that she found
white agapanthus a splendid basis for
the Christmas-table itself, especially when
decorated with red and white tapers and
red roses.
V V V
Larry Adler, who has made himself a
virtuoso of the mouth-organ (“Not
harmonica, I think the word is too
prissy,” he says) impresses one as a man
who would make a success of whatever
he set his mind to. He is slim and dark
with quick movements and lively eyes.
At the reception given for him by the
Symphony Orchestral Committee he was
welcomed by president Mrs. Arnold Hirst,
and greeted several old friends, including
Mrs. Hans Tronser, who had appeared
on the same programme with him in
1937. He does not believe in children
following in father’s footsteps, and says
that his are the only mouth-organs in his
home. Of course, his children may be
better disciplined than most, but the ques-
tion is: how do you keep a child away
from a mouth-organ?
V V v
The Governor, Lieut.-General E. W.
Woodward, set the. foundation-stone of
the St. George district Legacy House at
Hurstville on Sunday and appealed for
continued support for Legacy in the work
it does in caring for the children of
deceased ex-Servicemen. The president of
Legacy, Mr. Justice R. Le Gay Brereton,
said that in the past four years the scope
of Legacy’s work in the St. George
district had nearly doubled, rising from
567 to 1070.
# # #
And on Saturday the Governor had
set the foundation-stone for a new Boys’
Club at the Lorna Hodgkinson Sunshine
Home at Gore Hill. This home is unique
in this country in that it provides a
permanent home for people from the ages
of four to 60, but whose mental age is
below eight. The purpose of such a
home is twofold ; first, to give the
mentally subnormal “child” a permanent
and congenial home ; and, secondly, to
free the remainder of his or her family to
lead a normal life. Greeting his Excel-
lency at the ceremony on Saturday were
Mrs. K. M. McCaw, Mrs. A. E. Shaw
and Mrs. A. Distin Morgan, with their
husbands, Mr. McCaw, M.L.A., Aider-
man Shaw (Mayor of Lane Cove) and
Dr. Morgan (chairman of the Sunshine
Home Board).
☆ ☆
Nicest idea of the week was the
Adelaide (S A.) plan for a floral welcome
for the Queen Mother next year. The
Premier, Sir Thomas Playford, said that
instead of elaborate street-decorations


with bunting a flower-day would be
staged.
MELBOURNE
A pair of bronze bookends with a
kookaburra on one and a kangaroo on
the other were gifts of the Australian-
American Association given to departing
U.S. Consul-General Gerald Warner and
Mrs. Warner at a late-afternoon party at
which more than 300 guests were received
by Mr. and Mrs. Warner and the president
of the association, Sir John Latham, who
was accompanied by Lady Latham.
To her full-skirted dress of China-blue
Mrs. Warner added a little navy platter,
while Lady Latham’s wide-brimmed straw
hat was of navy-blue to match her silk
dress, which was made with floating
panels. Guests included Sir Wilfrid and
Lady Kent Hughes, Lady Myer, Sir
Frank and Lady Selleck, Lieut.-General
and Mrs. E. K. Smart, Mr. and Mrs.
Ronald Nott, Mrs. Wallace Mitchell,
Mr. and Mrs. L. J. Dooling, Mr. and
Mrs. Angus Jones, Mrs. Rupert Downes
and Mr. and Mrs. Aubrey Gibson.
The party served also as a welcome
to new Consul-General Graham Hall
and Mrs. Hall (she wore a silk dress
patterned in jade-green and white and a
small white straw hat).
ft ft fr
St. Peter’s, Eastern Hill, was beautifully
decorated with flowers for the wedding
of Helen McDougall and Ernest Collard
Haisman, at which Rev. Canon Farnham
E. Maynard officiated. With her dress
of pervenche-blue and
chiffons, the bride wore a picture-hat of
blue tulle and carried white orchids.
Matron-of-honor Mrs. John Buckland
and bridesmaid Alice Adcock (the bride’s
cousrn) wore French rose-pink chiffon
dresses with swathed bodice and swirl
drapings on the harem-skirts. Their hats
were of matching pleated French-straw.
Suzanne Carrodus, the little flower-girl,
was very pretty in her full-skirted dress of
pale-pink organdie trimmed with rose-
buds. Best man was Roy Dixon, grooms-
man John Buckland. Mr. W. K. Burn-
side, who gave the bride away, was
present with Mrs. Burnside at the recep-
tion given later by Mrs. Charles Day at
her Caulfield home. Mrs. Day, who
received the guests, wore a cocktail-dress
of black French-silk.
Other guests included Sir Frank
Selleck (whose friendship with the bride-
groom goes back to their schooldays in
Shepparton) and Lady Selleck ; Mr. and
Mrs. Len Dooling (they also have a
special interest in the Goulburn Valley);
Mrs. M. Pugliese, of Sydney, who flew
over specially for the wedding accom-
panied by Mr. Albert Bryk, and whose
cocktail-dress of mist-blue chiffon was
worn under a full-length coat of deep-
blue and silver French-brocade ; Mr. and
Mrs. Garnet Carroll; Sir Arthur and
Lady Warner (her black chiffon dress had
a pleated fichu); Mr. and Mrs. John
Ka\ifman (she in garnet-red crepe);
Madame Vigano, who covered her black
sequrnned-net and velvet dress with a
white ermine stole; Mrs. Roy Dixon,
whose small feathered cap was of the
same silver-grey as her guipure-lace
dress ; Mr. and Mrs. A. T. Smithers and
Mr. Jack Wedgwood (whose wife,
Senator Ivy Wedgwood, is away on a
seven-weeks’ tour of India with the Com-
monwealth Parliamentary delegation).
Mrs. Graham Hall, wife of the newly
appointed U.S. Consul-General, has
already made many friends in Melbourne
since her arrival. An Arts graduate of
Columbia University, New York, Mrs.
Hall has travelled widely, especially in the
Far East in the capacity of secretary to
her father, a Methodist bishop. Meeting
and marrying her husband in Little Rock,
Arkansas, where he had a legal practice,
they made the town their home for 25
years, until Mr. Hall entered the diplo-
matic service in 1951. Mrs. Hall, who is
now a grandmother, is very interested in
community-welfare work and was co-
founder of a nursery-school and a Visiting
Nurse Association in Little Rock. She
finds time in her busy life to take an
active interest in art (during her husband's
appointment in New Delhi she spon-
sored exhibitions of the work of young
Indian artists) and is looking forward to
delving into the works of Australian
painters.
To entertain cadet midshipmen of
Flinders Naval Depot before their
passing-out ceremony, a buffet-dinner and
dance was held last Saturday at the home
of Mr. R. H. Cunningham, chairman of
the Introduction Committee of the Vic-
toria League. Senior girls from several
colleges were also invited, and made a
particularly charming picture in their
dainty party-frocks, with the blue of
uniforms an effective foil. Mrs. Guy
Bakewell, chairman of the league, wore a
pale-green cocktail-frock. Mrs. Donald
Northway (secretary) and Mrs. Ronald
Austin (vice-president of the committee)
assisted in entertaining the young guests.
The hostess’s dress of green-shot taffeta
was made with a portrait-neckline.
fr fc ft
An all-white wedding was chosen by
Miss Barbara Elizabeth Fitchett when she
married Michael' John Hall Best at St.
John’s, Toorak, on Saturday. The second
daughter of Mrs. J. C. Fitchett, of Toorak,
the bride looked graceful in a gown of
chalk-white duchesse-satin, made with a
high neckline and modified bell-shaped
skirt which finished in a short train.
Matron-of-honor was Mrs. David. Hurley,
and Miss -Felicity Fitchett bridesmaid.
Their dresses were of white linen, of
street-length, and finished with bands of
white satin on the hemlines. The bride-
groom is the only son of Sir John and
Lady Hall Best, of Sydney, Sam Cullen,
also of Sydney, was best man, and Alec
Shand groomsman. Reception was at
Menzies’ Hotel.
CANBERRA
Dutch Territories Minister Mr. G. P.
Helders had a busy few days in Canberra
on his first Australian visit, but took
time off from his Ministerial affairs to
meet many people. Among the enter-
tainments arranged in his honor was a
late-afternoon reception given at the
Royal Netherlands Embassy residence by
the Ambassador, Mr. H. J. Lovink, and
his charming wife (who chose an attrac-
tive cocktail frock in muted-gold silk).
Those attending this reception included
many Cabinet Ministers. Noted the
Minister for External Affairs, Mr. R. G.
Casey ; the Minister for Territories, Mr.
Paul Hasluck ; Mr. J. O. Cramer, Army
Minister; and Defence Minister Sir
Philip Mcßride. Also present were Mr.
P. S. McGovern and his wife, she smart
in bronze taffeta ; the dean of the Diplo-
matic Corps, Mr. G.-E. L. Alderton, and
Mrs. Alderton —her frock of green-and-
white patterned silk ; Mrs. A. R. Cutler
wearing a white straw sou’-wester with
her navy silk suit ; Dr. C. van Beukering,
attache to the Netherlands Embassy, and
his wife —she elegant in a grey lace frock ;
Dr. and Mrs. O. Burchard of the German
Embassy; the second secretary to the
Netherlands Embassy, Mr. B. C. Peyra,
and Mrs. Peyra ; and Sir Leslie and
Lady Melville.
☆ ☆ ☆
An interesting collection of water-
colors and oils is shown at the seven-
teenth annual Exhibition of the Artists’
Society of Canberra. The exhibition was
opened at Riverside Centre by the
Minister for the Interior, Mr. Alan Fair-
hall, who was welcomed by the society’s
president, Mr. G. M. Duncan. Mr.
Fairhall conveyed a message of regret
from Dame Pattie Menzies ; she was to
have opened the exhibition, but was called
to Melbourne through family illness.
The Minister said he hoped the day was
not far distant when Canberra would
have a worthy art-gallery.


Roeder’s room, next to his own.
Miss Guilder’s was toward the
far end.
What had it to do with me?
Nothing! Apparently it was
one of those triangular
problems. Smeathe should look
after his girl, or else . . .
Now there was a soft breeze
coming from the east and the
sound of the sea on distant
reefs was soothing. I slept.
But the breeze died down
and the air became oppressive
again. Not sleeping, 1 got up
and lit a cigarette. There was
movement in the next room.
Smeathe was awake, too.
After a while someone came
out into the back corridor and
down the stairs, but very
quietly. Smoking, I glanced
e icily out of the side-window of
my room, which overlooked the
yard. And there, once again,
was a moving shadow-shape
under the coral-tree, and one
which was evidently fraternis-
ing with Atlas the tortoise. It
must be Smeathe again ; a
queer young fellow. Feeling
cool again, and sleepy, I
returned to bed.
A BOUT four-o’clock in the
morning I was awakened
by a resounding commotion.
Lights went on. Doors opened
and shut. Feet pattered and
thumped on the veranda and
in corridors. Most of the vocal
uproar came from Roeder, w ho
was waddling about like an
angry sea-lion.
“I've been robbed! ” he
roared. “Where's the police?”
He was glaring at the man
Smeathe, who was staring at
him with eyes that looked
absurdly fishlike without their
usual guard of spectacles. The
girl, Guilder, was a little further
along the veranda. The pro-
prietor of the hotel and his wife
were there, too, and the party
was being reinforced every
second by fresh arrivals either
of boarders or staff.
Now Roeder made a
grotesque figure in his pyjamas,
and 1 advised him to camouflage
his bulging charms with a dress-
ing-gown. He did that, but
when he returned he held a
small revolver in his hand.
“You're not getting away
with this,” he declared, seizing
Smeathe by the shoulder with
his left hand and waving the
revolver in his right. But
Smeathe belied his frail
appearance ; knocking Roeder's
grasp away, he seized the big
fellow by the right wrist,
pulling him forward, at the
same time dropping his own
right elbow and driving it into
Roeder’s stomach. Roeder let
out a great gasp and stood
stock-still with his mouth
open.
“Be your age, man,” rasped
Smeathe. “If I’d robbed you
what would I be doing here?
I've been robbed, too. My
attache-case has gone, and l
had some rare jewellery-samples
in that.”
“ ’Course it's not cricket — it's ART!”
Roeder at last found his
voice again when the constable
arrived ; he demanded that
everybody's room be searched.
“I want this girl's room
searched first,” he said. “I was
foolish enough to show her
my pearls.”
“Why, you dirty old man!”
said Miss Guilder. “You've
been trying to make a pass at
me all night.” Her voice had
an old blade-razor edge, and
her demeanor was waspish.
“I've a good mind to lay a
charge against you.”
The constable was hard put
to it in preserving order
between Smeathe, Roeder, the
girl and myself. Later he had
the backing of his sergeant,
who came over from the
nearest town.
Roeder’s large wallet was
found among some shrubs at
the back of the hotel —empty,
of course. Smeathe’s attache-
case, rifled of whatever it had
contained, was also found
near by. Personally I never
believed it had contained any
jewels.
It was when the police
examined the contents of my
pocketbook, at Roeder’s insist-
ence, that I first began to feel
a sense of loss.
“What’s this?” asked the
sergeant, as he looked at the
cheque Roeder had given me
the night before.
“It’s stopped,” screamed
Roeder. “He won’t collect on
that!” He grabbed at the
cheque, but I chopped down
hard with the edge of my flat
hand and numbed his wrist.
“It’s your cheque,” said the
sergeant, handing it back to
me. “For what it's worth,” he
added.
And then another loss was
discovered. Atlas had gone.
Old Jack, the hotel-rouseabout
and custodian of Atlas, pointed
to the marks of its clublike
feet along the beach. He had
always found the tortoise
averse to the salt v/ater. Having
lived to a great age on land, it
had preferred to keep its feet
on something solid. But now
it had been somehow shocked
out of its mundane existence
and forsaken, the coral-tree and
all its works.
“Making back for the
Galapagos Islands,” I said
facetiously to Jack.
“Someone did something
drastic to that tortoise,” he
said. “It wouldn’t budge from
the hotel otherwise. I used to
feed it from the palm of me
hand.”
“Perhaps it got away with
the jewels,” I said, still trying
to be humorous.
Old Jack stroked his beard:
“Could be,” he said. “You
could hide a parcel in Atlas’s
roof.”
“His carapace!” I said.
“That’s what the highbrows
call it,”, he mumbled.
‘“CIND the tortoise?” I asked
him next day.
“No!” he said. “But there’s
a man who might find him.”
He pointed to where Smeathe
was walking along the beach
toward the southern point,
where the reef joined the coast-
line. There the coral stretched
out for a mile or so, forming
a rough but effective break-
water for the little port.
Smeathe was fully accoutred
for spear-fishing.
“Where’s his lady?” I
queried.
“She went this morning. I'm
glad to say.”
Old Jack indicated all too
plainly that he would much
prefer to have his tortoise than
any gilded blonde.
All that day Smeathe
pottered about the reefs. And
the next. And then 1 left.
The lugger that was to take
me up the coast towards
Thursday Island was waiting
forme. I was to do the diving.
I’d have to dive good and
often, too, for Roeder had
stopped his cheque. And I’d
lost the cash he gave me
playing hazards. I couldn't do
any good on land. It was back
to the sea for me.
As our auxiliary motor
chug-chug-chugged us out to


the sea I saw Smeathe still
questing around the reef. That
day he had on a pair of wading-
boots and was carrying a long
spear. He had left behind
the underwater-apparatus he
had been using. I watched him
kick off the waders and dive
into a pocket between two
clusters of coral.
“I wouldn’t do that for all
the tea in China,” I said to
the skipper.
“Neither would I,” he
replied. “Not amongst coral.”
TT was about a year before I
put into Rosswell again. I
was then in partnership with
the owner of a Bermuda-type
cutter, the Lynx.
We were going to fish around
the adjacent reefs for trochus-
shell and beche-de-mer, with
pearls as a possible turn-up.
The Chinese were still paying
big prices for beche-de-mer.
They love to make soup from
these long slugs.
Old Jack was fishing near
the reef as we came in. I
had been cut off from local
news. Naturally our conver-
sation turned to our last meet-
ing. Had Roeder’s pearls ever
been found? Had the police
ever made an arrest?
“No,” said Jack. “They
never got anything or anyone.
Roeder never came back. He
was no good, anyhow.”
“And that young fair-haired
fellow?” I quizzed.
“He soon disappeared, too,”
he said. “Just went out one
day and never came back. Had
his spear-fishing gear with
him ; left his clothes behind.
But I think that was just a
blind.”
“What happened to him?”
“Well,” said Jack, “we all,
and that includes the police,
all came to the same conclu-
sion: that he made a get-
away. Picked up by a car
down the coast a bit, where
the road comes close to the
beach. Probably his girl-friend
arranged it. I’m sure he had
those pearls hidden some-
where.”
“Pretty shrewd, eh! ” I
observed.
“Yeah,” said Jack laconi-
cally, as he baited another
hook.
“And did Atlas ever turn up
again?”
“Never again,” he said rue-
fully. “Old Atlas must’ve got
a terrible fright and cleared
out to sea. That young fellow
must’ve carved a hole in his
shell. It’s funny it hasn’t been
seen. Probably dead some-
where among the reefs. Them
big tortoises can’t swim
much.”
We worked around Rosswell
and the reefs for some time.
And there was plenty of
trochus and soup-slugs. It
was a payable visit. And the
port was pleasant to relax in.
And then one day, as I was
diving for shell in a channel
between the reefs, l came upon
the resting-place of the late
Mr. Smeathe.
])OWN about 20ft. on the
seaward side of the coral
wall forming the south-
easterly barrier to the port, I
saw the skeleton. There
Smeathe stood ; or at least his
skeleton stood. It was trapped
against the entrance to a deep
hole slanting into a coral wall.
One bony foot was im-
prisoned in a tangle of coral;
the other hung loose. The free
leg swung gently in the current
of the channel. The skull
nodded grotesquely and, the
waving foot accompanying it, I
wouldn’t have been surprised
at all if the whole set of bones
had broken into a dance. A
marine-minuet or a coral tap-
dance.
Maybe the body, or shell of
the tortoise was in that hole.
But the opening was dark, thick
with weed and laced with coral.
I was about to turn away.
One could be trapped in such
a hole. But I thought of the
pearls and took the risk.
Sure enough, Atlas was
there. At least, his shell was
there. The little fishes had
long ago eaten his carcass, too.
I took the shell to the surface
with me.
The tender who unscrewed
my helmet jerked his thumb
toward the great shell which
I had put down between my
legs.
“You’ll be shifting garbage
next,” he said, sniffing. “Don’t
you dive for pearlsheil no
more?”
“I want this tortoise-shell for
making cigarette-cases,” I
said.
He laughed ; thought I was
a fool; he knew that it’s turtle-
shell that makes the best
“tortoise-shell,” if you know
what I mean.
In my cabin I cleaned the
shell and searched closely
among those overlapping layers
of leaflike scales that make up
the top surface.
Yes, there was one joining
rougher than the others.
Immersion in the salt water
had outlined the plastic glue
that held the patch in place. I
had no difficulty in prising it
off with a knife. There, in the
cavity hollowed out by the late
Mr. Smeathe, I expected to
find . . .
But the cavity was empty.
~NTOT long afterwards that
Old Jack, the rouseabout
of the Coral-tree Hotel, died,
Contrary to general expecta-
tion, he didn’t die poor.
No! As Police - sergeant
Magoffie told me: “The old
chap had quite a big bank-
balance and some extensive
real-estate in Townsville: all
acquired in the course of a year
or two.”
“I didn’t think he had a
razoo,” I said. “Where do
you think he’d get money
from?”
“You never know,” said the
sergeant. “He might’ve won a
lottery.” He was about to
wink ; but straightened his
face and added: “In any case,
the State gets the lot. Wa
can’t trace any relatives.”
I made appropriate but not
very intelligible noises, and
was about to go when Magoffie
said: “By the way, Diver. Up
to the time Old Jack died I
always thought you had got
away with those pearls of
Roeder’s.”
And that made me think of
that quotation about casting
pearls before .. . say, a tortoise.
ABDUL’S RACEHORSE
rptsURING the First World
IJJJ War Australia was urged
to increase her produc-
tion of copper, and, as a youth
from the School of Mines, Mel-
bourne, I was sent post-haste
to do my underground
experience at Mt. Hope Copper
Mine, in western N.S.W.
Seeing me off at Central Station,
Sydney, to travel to Condobolin
(then the end of the western
line) were my father and
mother. Mother said: “Always
keep your head up, Eric.” And
Father added: “Don’t, son,
you’ll fall down a bloody
shaft.”
Over the hundred miles of
sand a two-horse coach con-
nected “The Hope” with Con-
dobolin. The town comprised a
mine, a couple of hundred
miners, a pub, a few stores, a
few women, and an Afghan or
two. It had everything which
goes with a western mining
town —kindly miner who wrote
and spoke endless verse ; the
Lilly Brothers, “the fastest
truckers outside of hell” ; the
technical and managerial staff
of the mine.
It was in the days when s.p.
was not as well organised as it
is today ; the local sergeant of
police did not bother with any-
one unless he was a thief, wife-
beater, or murderer; the State
had not yet made a monopoly
of lotteries. The indigent, and
professional collectors of coin,
would organise raffles, with the
prizes anything from a pram to
a broken-down sulky. Every
week there was a raffle for
something or other.
One of my intimates was a
Hindu storekeeper named
Abdul, who taught me how to
smoke a hookah and to speak a
little Hindustani. He also gave
me a lesson in economics.
Now and again there were
horseraces at the old, played-
out goldfield of Gillgunnia, and
by some means Abdul had
become the possessor of a
“racehorse.” The quadruped
had probably been given to
Abdul by one of the miners in
payment for a pound of
tobacco, but Abdul looked
upon his “racehorse” as a
potential winner at the Con-
dobolin races, and watched him
demolish chaff and oats
brought from some 200 miles
away. _ Then came the
“drouth,” and Abdul looked
at the heat dancing on the
plain around “The Hope” with-
out hope at all.
“He’ll eat your store, and
your house and your turban
too,” says I.
“I have my plan,” replied
Abdul, with his cheerful,
monkey-like expression on his
leather face.
Abdul organised raffling his
horse, and the long and ficti-
tious bloodline of the mare —
which, too, the mare’s previous
owner had given Abdul —was
on each raffle-ticket. Even in
the drought Abdul sold 29
tickets at a £l, and with due
solemnity the winner’s name
was drawn from the hat.
The careless and generous
miners had bought the tickets
because they liked Abdul, not
because they wanted the horse.
The winner turned out to be a
miner who had been on one of
his periodic drunks, and had
been missing a few days.
During the blackness of the
moonless nights the miner and
his mate would always find
their way over the hill and
down to their camp by way of
direction from a sheet of iron
which led them away from the
earth-tank that kept the mine
in water. This time, though,
stock or the wind had shifted
the sheet of iron, and in the
western blackness of night the
two miners got into the tank,
and, later, were found there,
drowned,
“That is a pity,” said Abdul.
“There is my racehorse without
an owner. We will have
another raffle.” And he did.
ERIC BEDFORD.


returned, some to stand bellowing
hopelessly outside the fence, others
to break through the wire and bog
on the edge of the thick, evil-snielling
water.
The most outstanding of all these
pertinaceous old battlers was Bike-
handle Bertha, named by Wonga
because her horns curled up and
back like bicycle-handles. Six times
in six days we pulled Bike-handle
Bertha out of the bog, stood her up
and watched her totter unsteadily
away. Her rescue became a feature
of the day’§ work, and we would
have been disappointed at not find-
ing her sitting in the mud, patiently
awaiting our arrival. And what a
haggard old baggage she was, with
mud caked all over her sagging .hide!
Yet we grew quite fond of her, for
it was impossible not to admire her
fighting spirit and the endless
patience with which she awaited her
daily rescue.
Which of the two novels, then—
since one has thus started to compare
them —makes the better reading?
Well, you can take your pick.
Ronan’s is the more striking, and,
dealing more with man against man,
has the more dramatic story. Porteous’s,
though lighter in story-interest—the
sustaining quality is in the love of
outback life and the descriptions of
mustering and horsemanship rather
than in the love-affairs, the feud with
Albert or even the rehabilitation of the
property —is both more convincing and
much more pleasant.
Take it by itself, without compari-
sons. and “Brigalow” is indeed a very
sound and pleasant piece of reading:
still compelling, even to a reader
familiar with outback literature,
because of the warmth and authenticity
of the descriptions; with remarkably
effective accounts of the drought and
the great bushfire. the camps by the
lagoon in kinder seasons and the wild
rides after scrubbers through the bush;
and no less pleasantly authentic in its
portraits of the stockmen, particularly
the youth who. rather late in the story,
comes in full of eagerness to learn to
be a man and a stockman.
“Bulletin” readers, of course, have
already made acquaintance with it as
a serial.
A Great Engineer
By chance to read a painter’s
biography after the biography of
lsambard Kingdom Brunei by L. T. C.
Rolt (Longmans) is to see such an
engineer as Brunei in his true setting,
as an artist, with style, with tunnel,
bridge, railway and steamship periods,
all complete.
His father. Marc Brunei, had fled
the French Revolution and arrived in
England, via New York, to give the
English their first taste of automation
with a machine that would make ships’
blocks. He married an English girl
and persuaded the English that what
was required was a tunnel under the
Thames.
His son. Isambard, was thus born
to engineering. He was apprenticed to
watchmaking under Breguet of Paris,
the finest watchmaker in the world;
and back m London he studied
engineering at the works of Maudslay.
Sons and Field of Lambeth, the world’s
finest engineers at that time.
From this he went on to take a very
practical part in his father's tunnel-
construction, paddling about inside the
tunnel on rafts when the river forced
its way through, once coming near to
being drowned, studying the breaks
from the river-bed in a diving-bell and
learning to handle men.
When financial difficulties and
general despair forced a suspension of
tunnel-construction young Brunei had
a season of dejection from which he
roused himself for his first great
project, the design of a suspension-
bridge at Clifton. Bristol. He won,
with a cliff-to-clift’ design, over a com-
petitor who wanted to interpose two
Gothic towers; but then it was dis-
covered that there was not enough
money to build the bridge—in fact, it
was not completed until after his
death.
The publicity of the bridge-design
brought Brunei to the notice of Bristol
worthies who wanted one of these new-
fangled railways to run from London
to Bristol; and so he became engineer
of the Great Western Railway: his
first job to survey it; his next job to
lay rails and build its bridges; and
next, since he would never agree to
divided control, to choose and order
locomotives and rolling-stock. He
chose badly; his engines wouldn’t hold
enough water, but he got a very good
lieutenant named Gooch; and when
the time came to justify the wide
gauge of seven feet which he had
argued would increase speed and
stability against Stephenson’s 4ft.
gauge, Gooch put such a shot of power
into the old engines with their 7ft.
driving-wheels that they won hands-
down. When eventually it was seen
that wide-gauge must give in to narrow-
gauge it seems to have been because
there was so much more narrow-gauge
than wide-gauge railway laid down.
The railway necessitated most of
Brunei’s great bridges. He had the great
man’s adaptability, whether he built
in wood, stone or iron; his stone
Maidenhead Bridge has the flattest
arch ever attempted; his masterpiece
is considered to be the Royal Albert
at Saltash, on the line extending broad-
gauge west of Plymouth, and Rolt has
a very good account of the scene
when the first 1000-ton truss was
floated-out to the piers from which it
was to be raised 100 ft. above high-
water with the raising of the piers,
already 70ft. down in the stream. But
perhaps the greatest of all his works
on this railway was the two-mile
tunnel at Box. on which sometimes as
many as 4000 men worked 16 hours a
day. doing in five years then what
modern machinery can shorten only to
four years.
But Brunei’s most exciting railway
experience was the leading of an army
of 2000 hastily recruited navvies
against a contractor who. after some
disagreement with the company, had
stopped work. The “Battle of Mickle-
ton.” fought with fists and sticks, was,
says Rolt. “surely, without parallel in
England since the days of the private
armies under the medieval Lords
Marcher.”
Perhaps the most interesting chapter
of this biography is that on the “South
Devon Atmospheric” railway, which
was also about the worst of Brunei's
failures; but there must be very few
people who know that around 1£47
Britain had trains drawn over long
pipes, the train attached to a plunger
in the pipe, which was drawn along
it by the suctioY of powerful pumps at
the various stations . . .
Since 1835 Brunei had been
interested in steamships. The Great
Western Steamship company was
formed as an acceptance of his
challenge: “Why not have a steamboat
go from Bristol to New York and call
it the Great Western?” And on
March 31, 1838. the 236 ft. paddleboat
sailed from Bristol, docking in New
York fifteen days and five hours later.
At that she was beaten by the little
Sirius, an Irish Channel packet,
chartered to make sure that Bristol
did not take the first steam-crossing
of the Atlantic from Liverpool. But
as a demonstration of the practicality
of Atlantic crossings, the Great
Western’s 1340 tons (gross register)
were more important than the Sirius’s
703; and the fact that the Great
Western docked with 200 tons of coal
unburned served to confound the
ingenious mathematician. Dr. Diony-
sius Lardner, who had dogged Brunei
all his life with mournful calculations.
Dr. Lardner had contended that the
larger the ship the less able would it
be to carry enough coal for a long
journey.
Brunei’s next ship for the Great
Western company was the Great
Britain, a 389 ft. iron ship, screw-driven.
On August 26, 1845, she set out on
her maiden voyage to New York and
arrived in 14 days 21 hours, the first
screw-driven ship to cross the Atlantic.
In 1846 she went aground, and Brunei


had to be especially ingenious to get
her off; in 1852 she began the first of
32 voyages in 23 years on the
Australian run; after which she served
as a troopship, a sailing-ship and then,
until 1933, a storage-hulk in the
Falkland Islands.
By 1852 Brunei was making the
sketches for his greatest and most
tragic creation: the Great Eastern. He
had in mind a ship of between 600 ft.
and 700 ft. and 20,000 and 30,000
tons—then an almost unimaginable
size. The final measurements were
692 ft. and 32,000 tons. She was to
have both paddles and a screw, and
the Eastern Steam Navigation Com-
pany, which made Brunei engineer-in-
charge, gave the contract to the ship-
builder John Scott Russell. This,
according to Rolt, was the mistake. Up
to now, he says, Brunei had been
superlatively well served by contrac-
tors he could trust; but J. S. Russell
skilfully bled the company of money
while the work did not progress, went
bankrupt and left the completion and
launching of the ship to Brunei at
tremendous added expense.
The account of how Brunei super-
vised the sideways-launch, the ship-
yard on the first day rioting with a
drunken mob, men being cut to pieces
by flying winch-handles; the months
of waiting for new machinery and
propitious tides, the shipyard rent
mounting in thousands of pounds, is
the -great moment of the book.
Brunei went on tour to Egypt when
he finally got the ship floated, and
while he was away the company gave
the completion of the vessel to none
other than the persuasive Russell. But
Brunei had still the complete charge;
he was on board on September 5,
1859, when he suffered a paralytic
stroke, so that when the Great Eastern
sailed on her trials on September 9
he was in bed waiting for news and
Russell was giving the orders, although
he said afterwards that he was merely
looking on. No one subsequently
could be quite sure why steamcocks
which should have been open were
closed; but the huge forward funnel
suddenly jumped into the air above a
burst of steam: —
The forward part of the deck
appeared to spring like a mine
There was a confused roar amid
which came the awful crash of
timber and iron mingled together
Blinded and almost stunned by the
overwhelming concussion, those on
the bridge were reminded of the
necessity of seeking shelter by the
shower of wreckage—glass, gilt
work, saloon ornaments and pieces
of wood, which began to fall like
rain in all directions.... .There
presently stumbled -upon the litter-
strewn deck nightmare figures, their
bodies boiled a leprous white. A
passenger ran forward and caught
one by the arm only to find the flesh
came away in his hand ”
They tried to keep it from Brunei,
lying waiting for news of his triumph;
and then they told him, and he died on
September 15, within a week of the
accident.
He was a small man, but quite Tear-
less. There is the story of how he
climbed out of a basket on which he
was being drawn on a wire rope across
the deep Clifton Gorge and swarmed
along the rope to release a stuck
pulley; but the mqst memorable story
is of how he was doing conjuring-tricks
and a half-sovereign stuck in his throat.
Forceps failing, they cut a hole in his
throat, and that was no good, either.
Then, with the hole in his throat (and
no anaesthetics) Brunei drew a board,
pivoted between two uprights, on
which he could be strapped and swung
head-over-heels—and at a second
attempt this dislodged the coin by the
application of the theory of centrifugal
force.
In all its detail, which is very little
suggested in these remarks, the book
makes one of the most fascinating
biographies of recent years.
The Great Deterrent: Sir John
Slessor (Cassell). These lectures by
the Marshal of the R.A.F. cover a
variety of subjects, but whether they
deal with defence in Europe, Asia or
the Middle East, all necessarily lead
up to “The Policy of Deterrence” by
nuclear weapons which Sir John
supports. He says that the West does
not need “great superiority” in nuclear
capacity—only enough bombs to do
the job of deterrence —but that “we
should be in mortal danger if Russia
were to get ahead of us in the means
of defence against the manned bomber
or in the development of the really
long-range guided-missile.” Assuming
a balance here he does not think that
“atomic stalemate” will stop minor
wars; nor that, even if atomic weapons
were used, these minor wars need
necessarily blow-up into global war.
"A Critic in Reply"
Since Vincent Buckley (R.P. 30/9/’57)
has referred to my inconsequential
ramble among the soursobs as “a piece
of passionate muddle,” I should like
to point out that this did not appear
quite as I wrote it.
The last paragraph, a footnote
explaining the history and appearance
of the soursob, was transposed to near
the beginning. The references to such
Melbourne writers as Fumley Maurice
and his Victoria Market with its “drift
of cabbage-leaves” (leading up to the
last gentle gibe at the “Cabbage
Patch”) were omitted.
Still, I must have expressed myself
badly, as I don’t think anyone who
knows me would accuse me of anti-
intellectual snobbery. And where does
he find me saying that a man who is
a member of a university is therefore
“outside any real literary discussion”?
I would not be guilty of any such
sweeping generalisation. The “worlds
of the university and the sheep-station”
have met, most profitably, in such
writers as the South Australian
Geoffrey Dutton. What I am against
is a return to the academic outlook of
some years ago, the university prejudice
against Australian writing, which is.
fortunately, now becoming rare.
However, all this is beside the point
of his main ground for complaint:
namely, that I had not read his essays
carefully and was “patronisingly
uninformed” of his views.
The fact is that I had not read them
at all, or even seen his book. It was
no doubt unwise and unfair to make
deductions at secondhand from reading
a review (I thought I made it clear
that this had been done) and from
hazy impressions of earlier magazine-
articles. For this I am sorry.
My article was meant to be general
and not an attack upon Mr. Buckley’s
ability or integrity as a critic; though 1
still think he is biased, as most of us
are.
One more point: as I had not then
read his book, I was not aware of the
nature of the attack he had made upon
my own work. And, by the way, the
poem partly quoted did not appear
first in “The Bulletin,” though it may
have been wrongly acknowledged in
“Australia Writes.”
The phrase “patronisingly unin-
formed” might justly, I think, be
thrown back at him. This small verse
is not typical of my writing, as it has
appeared in “The Bulletin” or else-
where. And there was nothing of
personal pique behind my “attack,”
which has drawn forth such a pained
“defence.”
Perhaps Mr. Buckley’s sensitiveness
could be attributed to a critic’s uncom-
fortable awareness that he has been
unkind, and even (though consciously
he might scorn such an old-fashioned
notion) unchivalrous to a woman and
a fellow-writer.
Nancy Cato.


PROVED IN INDUSTRY
'
The MAM
Rubber lined
Split casing
PUMP
for Slurries o Mud o Chemicals o Solids
* Simplicity of Design
* First Class Materials
* Maximum Efficiency
* Immediate Parts Service
mean
Low Operating and Maintenance Costs • Reduced downtime
a
%
w
<o
m
Chech these main features
• 4 Heavy duty Roller Bearings.
• 4 Position delivery.
• Alternative arrangements for shaft
sealing.
• Meehanite alloy main castings.
• 5 point clamp of bowl and liners.
• Wearing parts of special metals
for special liquids.
• 2 - 3 - 4 - 8 vane impellers.
• Replaceable rubber or alloy steel
Liners.
• Sizes 2 in. to 8 in. delivery.
The MARS 8/6 Model U.D.F. Pump
If you are pumping anything but pure water you can’t
afford to go past MARS PUMPS
MARS
Machine Tool
Manufacturing
CO. PTY. LTD.
Bridge St., Valley, Brisbane, Q,
Write for details NOW
Name.
Address
SJ 1187
•.■wwn—
