

Wb
e
e
A >1 (3 >T O 133 A
ouaios
The Bulletin
THE AUSTRALIAN POLITICAL SCENE PAGE 4
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 78—No. 4023
Wednesday, March 20, 195?
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
No. 34!: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
RYE'S MERMAID INN HAS SHELTERED MANY A SMUGGLER
THE well-known song, “There’s an old-fashioned house in an old-fashioned
street,” is said to have been written of Mermaid-street, in the Sussex town
of Rye. 63 miles from London.
This cobblestoned street, which is sometimes claimed as the most
picturesque street in England, drops down the steep western slopes of the
town to the site of the vanished Strand Gate and the old harbor. The roadway
is lined with attractive houses., which have been reprouduced in countless
paintings and sketches by artists whose ambition has been to capture the
mellow atmosphere of Elizabethan England.
Here stands the Mermaid Inn, which remains substantially unaltered since
the 16th century. It was known to at least one of Shakspeare’s contemporaries,
the dramatist John Fletcher, who was born at the Old Vicarage in 1579. Other
literary figures who lived in Rye were Henry James (1843-1916) and the late
E. F. Benson, the author of the standard work on the life of Charlotte Bronte.
The Mermaid Inn is believed to have,been built in the early 15th century
and at that time it covered the whole of Mermaid Passage. In coaching-days
it was used as a hostelry and the horses were accommodated in stables behind
the inn. It was a popular resort of smugglers and highwaymen and much
evidence of their visits was discovered in the form of booty when structural
alterations were being made to the building. During recent years the inn
has been thoroughly restored and the decorations which were carried out
by James Guthrie, the noted artist and printer, have added much to the
medieval atmosphere of this ancient inn.
In Elizabethan days Rye was one of the chief cross-Channel ports and
Mermaid-street led directly to the quay and the harbor. After the massacre
of St. Bartholomew's Day (August 24, 1572) hundreds of French Protestant
refugees poured into Rye, which for many years became the centre of a large
Huguenot community.
Rye received its charter of incorporation as a borough in 1289 and the
Mayor is entitled to the rare privilege of two maces, one as mayor of the
borough and the other as the Queen’s bailiff.


WRITE STORIES
. . . and EARN
in your SPARE TIME!
If you have the urge to write, you can
learn to write successful Short Stories,
Articles, Written Sketches, Radio Talks,
Paragraphs, Verse, etc. There is a large
demand for well-written MSS. Read these
extracts from STOTT Students’ letters.:—
During the past six months my Acceptances
have returned me over £200.”
“I am pleased to report further Successes since
Les. 10. This makes £53 in hand with more
to come.”
“I list hereunder my Acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
£ “My earnings from my Writing total almost
“I very much enjoyed my Freelance Journalism
study and more than paid for the Course with
Articles accepted.”
“During the Course I sold five Stories, which
more than paid for my fees.”
nmifi
mm
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereash St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 (’-renfeil
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
—CtfT AND MAIL THIS COUPON—
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 657) AGE
£lOO PRIZE
SHORT STORY
COMPETITION
CLOSING DAY 30th JUNE, 1957
25 0 0 words.
Write for particulars to:
MESSENGER OFFICE,
7 Lansdowne St., Melbourne, C. 2, Vic.
BOOK-HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if sue*
cessful.
The Red Page
MYTHS OF THE MAORIS
Of all the heretical religions which
lead, presumably, to damnation, none
is more tempting than that of the
ancient Maoris. Sir George Grey, in
his Polynesian Mythology, newly
reprinted by Whitcombe and Tombs
after an incrediole lapse of years,
says these beliefs are puerile , but
not so Janies Cowan in The Maoris
of New Zealand :
There is something very grand in
the ancient Maori cosmogonies. The
Maori could conceive of uncount-
able asons of Chaos and primeval
Darkness, these gradually giving
place to light until the Ao-marama,
the World of Light, was evolved.
Ages upon ages of Nothing, as e
old tohungas recite, preceded the
gradual Dawn of Life and the coming
into being of the Heavens and the
Earth. It is a stupendous concep-
tion.
, Perhaps it is significant that in
Cowan, who, of course, had Grey’s
work and that of others to draw upon,
we get a far more complete, though
more compact, account of the Maori
beliefs than in Grey; not only in his
discussion of 10, the First Cause, the
Supreme God (with the natural com-
ment on the resemblance between this
name and Devus, Deus, Zeus, etc.),
but also in his relation of that marvel-
lous genealogy which traces mankind
back from Tiki, the first human being,
through Rangi and Papa, the Sky-
Father and Earth-Mother, to those
“uncountable aeons of Chaos” revolv-
ing in their cycles of darkness and
light, thence to the stars and beyond
the stars to 10.
After its origin from 10, said the
Maoris, the successive cycles of dark-
ness and light, female and male,
through which the world evolved were:
Te Marama (the Moon); Te Ra
(the Sun); Te Po-nui (the Great
Darkness); Te Ao-nui (the Great
Light); Te Po-roa (the Long Dark-
ness); Te Ao-roa (the Long Light) ;
le Po-papakina (the Darkness That
Can Be Felt); Te Ao-papakina
(the Light That Can Be Felt)....
Te Po-whero (the Red Darkness) ;
Te Ao-whero (the Red Light); Te
Ao-ma rthp W whitp Da nSht? • ’
Po-pango (the Black Darkness) - Te
Ao?pango (th e B Black Light) •’ Te
Po-whakarum (the Darkness
Agitated); Te Ao-whakaruru (the
Light Agitated)
and so, through the Darkness to the
Left and the Light to the Right, to
Rangi and Papa; and their children
who were gods—Rongo of cultiva-
tion, Tane of the forest, Tu of war-
and at last to Tiki, Thor Heyerdahl’s
friend, who was bom from the union
of Tane and Hine-ahu-one, the “Earth-
formed Maid” into whom the god
breathed life.
It is indeed a stupendous concep-
tion; and has the unique advantage of
offering to us some information how-
ever unreliable, as to the behavior of
the cosmos in its most remote infancy.
It must have made the universe a very
comfortable, homely sort of place for
the Maoris to live in.
But Grey, when he called this dance
of light and darkness “puerile,” was
merely making the correct mark for
an Englishman of his period. Obvi-
ously he didn’t believe what he was
saying, since he took the trouble to
collect the legends. And, in fact, read-
ing his preface to the first edition which
is reprinted in the Whitcombe and
Tombs book, one marvels again at the
wisdom and patience of this great
man ... as, reading his notes on
Greek, Chinese and Maori music in one
of the appendices to his second edition
Of 1855 (not reprinted), one marvels
at his erudition.
Here was this British soldier, pioneer
explorer of Westralia, then Governor
of South Australia in the difficult days
of a slump, suddenly transferred to
govern New Zealand in the still more
difficult days of the Maori wars; and
perceiving, as he said, that “I could
neither successfully govern, nor hope
to conciliate, a numerous and turbu-
lent people, with whose language,
manners, customs, religion and modes
of thought I was quite unacquainted”;
and so for eight years, in the midst of
warfare and intricate negotiation,
undeterred by a fire at Government
House which destroyed his notes,
patiently acquiring a knowledge of the
Maori language and beliefs, eventually
to be set down in print. The 1854
edition of his book was printed entirely
in Maori; the 1855 with both the
Maori version and an English transla-
tion.
And they are, if later research has
amplified them, a most interesting set
of legends he collected: a little about
the cycles of light and darkness; Tane
standing on his head to push Rangi
and Papa apart with his feet, so that
earth might be separated from heaven;
Maui, the great cosmic trickster, arising
like Venus from the ocean and snaring
the snn, doing great deeds with his
grandmother’s jawbone and —most use-
ful of all his pranks —fishing up New
Zealand from the sea; the stories of
the dissensions in Hawaiki and the
nasty tricks the warriors played on their
enemies; the great canoe-voyages from
Tahiti to New Zealand, with the
intimate details of how Tama-te-kapua
made love to the high priest’s wife and
how Turi, after snoring at the mouth
of the Waingongoro, landed at Patea
with only eight kumaras left for
planting; a few stories of the lively
red-headed fairies; and the lovely tale
of Hinemoa and Tutanekai which gave
Alfred Domett a poem and Alfred Hill
a cantata.
Surprisingly, at this stage of anti-
podean scholarship, the present edition
lacks the learned foreword and notes
one would expect and does not even
make adequate reference to the varia-
tions from earlier editions the
dropping, for instance, of the long tale
about Paoa’s wife, who ran away from
her husband after a quarrel; as a
compensation for which omission there
is included, incidentally, a translation
by William Bird of a story which Grey
left untranslated. There are some
illustrations, slightly too tubular and
hairy, but nonetheless striking and
imaginative, by Russell Clark; and
the general intention seems to be to
present this New Zealand classic in a
popular edition.
Rarotongan Poet
Sooner or later all good things in
literature swim into view; and if
Alistair Campbell’s Mine Eyes Dazzle
(Pegasus Press, Christchurch), first
published in 1950, has had to wait for
its third edition before being seen in
Australia at least it has the stability to
withstand the delay.
Mr. Campbell has one unique claim
to distinction: he must surely be the
only poet in history to have been bom
in Rarotonga. It would be pleasing
if he took a trip back there and told
us something about that delectable
island instead of leaving it all to Rupert
Brooke and his Tahitian girls.
But that is only an accidental distinc-
tion. Mr. Campbell is domiciled in
New Zealand and it is in that country
where his fine landscapes and love-
poems are set. By far the best of his
book is the opening sequence, an elegy
for a friend killed in the New Zealand
alps: a poem which in its stony coldness
would make a strange contrast with
the st,eamy Sydney of Kenneth Slessor’s
“Five Bells.”
In the assurance with which Mr.
Campbell handles such wicked rhymes
as “talked” and “hawk,” in the spartan
language (influenced here arid there by
Yeats), in the dramatic New Zealand
imagery and in the undertone of
threnodic music it is in every way an
admirable poem:—
Now he is dead, who talked
Of wild places and skies'
Inhabited by the hawk ;
Of the hunted hare that flies
Down bare parapets of stone,
And there closes its eyes;
Of trees fast-rooted in stone
Wind bends but cannot break ;
Of the low terrible moan
That dead thorn-trees make
On a windy desolate knoll;
Of the storm-blackened lake . . .
Some of the other poems, such as
“At the Great Water’s Edge” and “At
a Fishing Settlement” are also excel-
lent, and all have quality. Altogether
it is a very pleasing book to come
across; but surely—he is still writing
in “Landfall”—Mr. Campbell is due
to have a new collection published.
9
A Long Tow
The things seamen do for a living do
not, even in these days of steam, fail to
surprise the landsman; for sheer
virtuosity Kenneth Ainslie’s account in
Pacific Ordeal (Hart-Davis) of how
he towed (in a tug) four minesweepers
across the Pacific from Manzanillo,
Mexico, to the Philippines, would take
a lot of beating.
The value of the wooden mine-
sweepers was in their 200-h.p. diesel
engines. Their propellers and shafts
had been taken out and the stern-
glands sealed. The four-boat tow had
been rigged, Captain Ainslie is careful
to say, by Another. The tugs were
fitted with bridles of 2jin. steel wire
that ran round both sides fore and
aft, and they were attached to each
other by lengths of llin. Manila-rope
“as thick as a man’s leg,” which, as
Captain Ainslie says, would appear to
the landsman strong enough to tow a
battleship.
Well, they were not. Again and
again and again someone would notice
the tug’s engines running smoother and
looking astern would report one, two
or three minesweepers detached. And
then to the difficult job of landing men
aboard the minesweepers in a small
flat-bottomed boat from rough seas full
of sharks was added the frightful strain
of getting in the broken Manila—Boo
feet of Manila, wet, hanging straight
down into the sea ; a weight of about
two tons ... A dozen breaks and
mends, and they were halfway across
the Pacific when the tug’s oil was nearly
gone. The tug slipped the tow, leaving
the radio-operator and two seamen on
one of the minesweepers, and ran for
Palmyra Island to refuel.
The oil gave out just as they
approached Palmyra; they drifted
towards the reef ; and were saved from
the surf by seconds with hurriedly-
rigged patchwork sails. Finally at
Palmyra, they refuelled and set out to
rejoin the minesweepers, but had to
come back without them. In Palmyra
again the tug’s crew was poisoned by
a meal of fish. After attending to them
Captain Ainslie went in a plane to
search the ocean for his minesweepers,
to no avail. The U.S. Air Force made
the search an exercise ; no less than
twenty-four P.B.Y.’s and Liberators
disgorging “enough aircrew and ground
staff to man quite a sizeable front-line
base.” Then the Air Force discovered
that they were using contaminated fuel,
and called the search off; but not
before one of them had picked-up a
likely radio-signal,
At last on the tug’s radio. Captain
Ainslie himself picked-up the mine-
sweeper’s call-sign ; then a Liberator
found two of the minesweepers;
Captain Ainslie collapsed after the
strain ; and his Philippines second-mate
took the tug out and brought back the
wireless-operator and the seamen,
Two of the minesweepers had sunk, the
wireless-operator said, the two middle
tows. It was a curious affair: the men
on the first minesweeper were chopping
away at the ropes that held the dead-
weight of the two sunken ships.
Suddenly the ropes pulled away, and
the weight of the two middle ships
drew the fourth minesweeper towards
the first at “about twelve knots.” She
missed them by about two feet,
Captain Ainslie rigged the tow for
the remainder of the journey himself;
rest of the trip to the Philippines
hardly news.
Columbus Sails Again
The noise of World War II drowned
some big Columbus debuts, Mada-
riaga’s biography (1939) and Samuel
Eliot Morison’s “Second Voyage”
(1939) and “Admiral of the Ocean Sea”
(1942). In a preface to a post-war
edition of his biography, Madariaga
alludes a little acidly to Morison’s
work as a “yachtsman’s biography”;
and although one has not seen either
of Morison’s previous works, it seems
probable that ‘yachtsman’s biography”
might be even more applicable to his
newest production, a short life,
Christopher Columbus, Mariner
(Faber).
Of course Madariaga’s work was
something of a virtuoso-study, an
attempt to prove that Columbus was a
red-haired Jew whose family had left
Spain to settle in Genoa. There was
not a little wicked and impish wit in
the proposition itself, but as a study
of a man, as an exposition of a life’s,
drama, as a closely-reasoned thesis, it
had qualities for which one may look
in vain in Admiral Morison’s sober
prose.
Neve rthel e s' s, a “yachtsman’s
biography” of one of the world’s
greatest seamen has certain solid virtues
which Madariaga himself could hardly
supply. In a longish introduction
Admiral Morison gives the story of
how he sailed in the wakes of
Columbus, first, in 1937, in a 57ft.
yawl, and next in 1939 in “a derelict
three-masted schooner-yacht which we
renamed Capitana and re-rigged as a
barquentine.” ,' ;
We sailed under the American
Yacht Ensign. The Harvard banner
(on a field gules three open books
clasped and edged or, inscribed
Veritas) flew at the main truck
[Admiral Morison is a professor ; his
naval rank derives from his history
of the American Navy in War ll]
‘the wavy blue-and-white burgee of
the cruising Club of America at the
fore and the old house-flag of my
China-trading ancestors at the
mizzen.
As Admiral Morison gets on with
the history of the four Columbus
voyagers he is thus able to add realism
to seascapes, sunsets, coastlines, etc.,
which could well have been the same
for Columbus as for him. It is interest-
ing to observe that Columbus’s ship-
wrights made boats which could travel
quite as fast—ll knots and more—
as contemporary yachts, and had little
to learn from them except in
manoeuvrability.
Then, again, what delight when dis-
cussing Columbus’s third voyage, where
Columbus sailed between Trinidad and
the South American coast into the
{Continued on page 35)


BOX 2712, G.P.O.
ANTHONYHORDERNS
PHONE B 0951
PRINTING OFFER
Obtainable only at A.H 9 s
Special printing offer exclusive to Anthony Horderns’. We
/ . '
can print for you on 100 sheets of good quality note paper,
your name and address and also
supply 100 envelopes to match,
also printed with your address on
the flap. This is all supplied
complete in a plain box for only 35/-. Delivery time 10 days
Mail and ’Phone Orders are accepted on the stationery
STRATHAVEN.
MARKET n OAO
K lU-ARA
MRS BRoWlji
jtrathave n'
MARKfT AD,
KILLARA
Introducing
Biro 9 s sensational new ink 9 ends-blotting and smudging
Anthony Horderns’ have a wonderful new range of Biros with Birene. This is an exclusive new Biro ink discovery. With
Birene there are no more inky fingers; it washes off so easily! And no blots or blobs, no smudging, no fading . . . Birene writes
perfectly in any weather. When not in use, the ball seals itself —the point stays clean always, yet Birene writes to the last drop
BIRENE
'
WM
:Wv>
sm
*
* •
6/9
18/6
jj O bUffCSPI FlalCJ lii
im
,-i' _
i~a C 0
e?
>*V
?@S*S*£
,3
i
®
N
-S .
=55-
21/-
Anthony Horderns’
will remake your
down quilt to look
like new, all quilts
are remade by experts
in our own factory.
\(r
! \
Af
\iv
, '')/Y
Wl
n
We specialise in all
types of Lawnmow’r
Repairs. Free deliv-
ery in seven days to
the Metropolitan
Area.
■*
'A s S
t P
3 V
X-:>\
U ;
yi v\ww
<\\ '
"M
A.H’s will repair all
electrical goods.
’Phone for a quota-
tion. We pick up
and deliyer free in
the Metropolitan
Area.
For just 4 /- in the £
deposit you can lay-
by any of the goods
offered throughout
the store. Lay-by De-
partment on the 2nd
Floor.
I
Anthony Horderns’
have a very popular
clothing hospital. It
does®all classes of re-
pair work to men*
women’s and child-
ren’s clothing.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 20,1957
Vol. 78—No. 4023
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
■Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (.opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
CANBERRA'S HEADACHES
THE Federal Parliament meeting this week faces
the most critical session since 1949. Mr. Menzies
has now equalled the reign in office of Mr. Hughes
—seven years and a bit—-and some of his Ministers
who have come up with him and who are older
than him are beginning to falter. The burden of
Government appears to be falling more and more
on the Prime Minister, who, during the past few
months, seems to have submerged the Treasurer in
economic discussions and drawn the fire of the
press personally on questions of pressing import-
ance. His Ministers in moments of strife are all
too ready to efface themselves.
This session will be an especially exacting one
for all parties, but particularly for the Government.
And a great part of the burden on the leadership
will come from the condition of the Opposition, a
band of desperate men, among whom not even the
loyalty of a gang of brigands continues to exist.
Cohesion has almost disappeared save as a pretence.
Mr. Calwell has to be held back by others
from a righteous attempt at assassination of the
reigning monarch of the Labor glen. Mr. Ward
lurks in the shadows, dagger in hand, and the whole
boiling of Leftists, Rightists and careerists who
form the “party” are engaged in a puppy-hunt
against the weak members of the Caucus who have
dared to oppose them —Daly, Morgan and their
congeners—and in a political massacre of those
outside Parliament, one of the current victims being
the mild and popular Gordon Anderson, formerly
M.P. for Kingsford-Smith.
Only one advantage has been gained from the
Labor Opposition by the agonies of the past year.
It has acquired a programme at last after years
of trying to act the chameleon. It is a camouflaged
programme of Socialisation, the dead-spit of the
one with which Curtin and Scullin emerged after
diving into turgid depths of the 1921 trade-union
conference and which Labor conferences have since
professed to repudiate again and again.
It has also acquired with the programme an
induced Red fanaticism with which it has apparently
been infected in a virulent form by association with
the Communists and which it will apply with the
heat of desperation against the Government in the
only cause on which all its members can agree—
the cause of wrecking the Federal Government.
This task isn’t impossible, having regard to
the existence of a press which is devoid of any
political desire, apparently, other than to sell papers
through pandering to the lower strata of public
opinion and exerting pressure to the limit, as the
Packer press has been doing in regard to housing.
Unfortunately, with such allies, Labor will be
in a position, if it plays its cards rightly, to make
the way of the Government very unhappy in the
next few months.
There is undoubtedly deep cleavage within and
between the two Government parties on the ques-
tion of banking. On the one hand, there is irritation
that the pledges of the 1949 election have been
• throughout evaded and that seven years of a
Government which proclaimed itself a “free-
enterprise” Administration have seen only lip-
service given to the principle of strengthening
private finance and weakening the ability of the
central bank to enter into Socialistic competition
with private enterprise.
This is an issue which the Government will
have to handle in the present session without any
doubt. It is not a straightforward problem, since
the attitudes of some members of its joint caucus
are just about as virulent as that of Labor on the
subject of interference with banking. This is
particularly so in the Country party, and the fact
of the existence of such caves explains a lot about
Sir Arthur Fadden’s policy, or lack of policy, and
the reluctance of the Treasury to act, more especially
since the views of Labor and of many senior civil
servants coincide and present a temptation to
consistent “let-be” in bureaucratic finance.
Linked with this question, Parliament will have
to handle the matters of housing and import-
restrictions, on both of which public opinion is
more than a little restive.
On housing, the Commonwealth has done as
good a job as been done in any country in the
world, and the failures in overall execution of
national plans have mainly been due to too much
Socialism and too much bureaucratic control on
the part of the States.
The incentive of the investor to build either
for sale or rent is small in view of restrictions and
of the quality of materials and the sloth of
Communist-controlled building labor, whose unions
squeal all the time for more houses for the workers,
but expect to get them with the aid of a 40-hour
week, go-slow, stopwork and continual rises of
wages which often make estimates for almost any
building a farce within a few weeks of the
commencement of construction.
It seems true that large funds are banked-up
under Commonwealth control which might be
released for housing. It is also true that there is an
overall figure of unemployment in the building-
trade which suggests on its face that more could
be done with the work-force. These apparent
conditions take no accounts of bottlenecks of skill
or of the reluctance to holders of the money to
trust it to the colossal ineptitude and political uses
of blundering Socialistic mastodons like the
N. S. Wales Housing Commission and the mercy of
industrial agitators.
Import-restriction has justified itself in overall
results, but in administrative detail, because of our
“stop-go” economy that is regulated by the price
of wool, it is difficult to establish the efficiency that
goes with a permanent staff and organisation.
Though it is early to free the whole field and allow
the gala of luxury imports which would no doubt
be the rebound frorti a bumper wool season, at a
time when industry is still likely to find it difficult
to pay for developmental machinery and equip-
ment overseas, the necessary piecemeal and
arbitrary regulation of the import business in
general presents the Government with a major
problem.
Lastly, as a foreground problem, comes defence
and foreign policy, closely linked and in the melting-
pot, at a time when the internal dissensions and
economic stresses of Western countries seem to
centre round a battle for control of the world
through oil and when a global strategy on the
military side has become inevitable.
It seems likely that the need for a well-
maintained programme will become more, rather
than less, necessary during the next ten years.
The need is combined with one to effect a
revolution in weaponry and in military means and
methods. Services, arms —every phase of military
preparedness —are in process of rapid change. And
change is apt to mean expense and muddle, v
criticism and resistance from vested interests in
and outside the Services, combat between those
whose service has become outmoded and those who
are to take their places.
What's In a Word?
IT was Lewis Carroll’s Humpty Dumpty who said
that when he used a word it meant just what he
chose it to mean, neither more nor less. Many
people before and since Carroll have refused to let
words be their masters, the most outstanding
present-day exponents of the art of making words
mean what you want ’em to mean being the
Communists, who have given new meanings to
such words as peace, freedom, democracy and
friendship.
The latest local word-twister to try his
hand at the game is F. E. Chamberlain, presi-
dent of the Federal A.L.P., who, in his opening
address at the party’s biennial conference in
Brisbane said that Labor must never depart from
“complete acceptance of Democratic Socialism.”
Sensing perhaps that an audience which had been
told for many years that it believed in outright
socialisation (as laid down in the A.L.P. platform)
and then for many more years that it didn’t believe
in socialisation at all, might find it a trifle strange
to be told it must never depart from complete
acceptance of something it didn’t know it had ever
accepted, Chamberlain hastened to explain that by
Democratic Socialism he meant simply this: —
Security in all its forms in the home. The
breadwinner working usefully in the community
and being remunerated at a level which will
enable him to discharge the responsibilities of
family life. His wife divorced from the drudgery
of housekeeping—as she well can be with the
application of modern science. Their children
well equipped in our schools to play their part in
the years to come in the maintenance and develop-
ment of a human society based upon the principles
underlying the freedoms of the Atlantic Charter.
If Chamberlain’s definition is right there must
be a lot of Democratic Socialists in the world,
although they’re masquerading under a variety of
names. The Liberal party could put its hand on
its collective heart in Canberra (or wherever it
keeps it) and aver its belief in those principles. So
could the Country party and the Democratic Labor
party. So also could President Eisenhower’s
Republicans and Adlai Stevenson’s Democrats in
capitalist America. All three political parties in
Britain could subscribe to the code without
imperilling their immortal souls, and the men of the
Kremlin and the democratically-elected masters of
the Peoples’ Republics would no doubt be prepared
to swear on a stack of Lenin’s works that
Chamberlain was expressing precisely their aims
and aspirations.
Chamberlain was, of course, talking nonsense
in advancing such a definition of Democratic
Socialism. He was merely stating objectives which
can be accepted in a general way by,most political
parties—which, indeed, can scarcely be repudiated
by any party—and implying that his brand of
Socialism is the only way of achieving them.
Early last year, when Labor had its tail down
as a result of its crushing defeat at the Federal
election, Chamberlain issued a statement in which
he called for a return to faith in the Socialist
objective of the party. Emphasising that the Labor
party did not come into existence merely to win
seats in Parliament, he said:—
While it is true that the task of winning seats
and finally the Government is important, it should
only be secondary to the primary task of formu-
lating policy based upon the Socialistic objective.
Over the years it has become increasingly clear
that the activities of the Labor party have
developed along the accepted lines of any other
political party. Success and failure are being
measured in terms of Parliamentary seats. Too
many people have found their way into the Labor
party who are political careerists. Any other party
would have served their purpose —a seat in
Parliament.
He named no names, but probably most Labor
M.P.s were able to run their eyes over their
colleagues and compile a mental list of those eligible
for classification as political careerists. Some of
the franker ones may even have included them-
selves. But whether they did or not they are bound
to have noticed their president’s warning that the
party needed men who believed in its basic
principles and were “prepared, if necessary, to
forfeit a seat in Parliament in protecting them.”
Even some who did not consider themselves
careerists may have thought that was carrying basic
principles a little too far, especially in view of
Chamberlain’s feelings on the subject of the methods
of selecting candidates —“We cannot afford to
continue with popular-boy competitions under the
guise of democratic selection-ballots.”
Six months later, after Professor Arndt had
criticised Labor’s Socialist objective as being out
of date, Chamberlain replied by invoking the name
of Chifley, all of whose actions, he claimed, “were
based upon the 1921 interpretation of the Socialist
objective.” His subsequent remarks showed that
what he had in mind was not the 1921 interpretation
at all but what is known as the “watered-down
interpretation,” rejected in 1921 and for over 3(
years thereafter and resurrected and avowed it
1953. He then described this as Democratic
Socialism and uttered the same pleasant platitude;
about it that he trotted out again in Brisbane las
week.
According to Chamberlain this has always beer
the real meaning of the Socialist objective —tha.
only public utilities and monopolies which are
exploiting the public should be nationalised.
If that is so, then a lot of Labor men since
1921 have been very much mistaken. Most of those
who voted for it in 1921 (when admiration for the
Russian revolution was sweeping the party) favored
a completely Socialist State, and when the Curtin
Government was in power in 1943 (at a time when
admiration for Russia had become temporarily
respectable) an A.L.P. Federal conference recom-
mended that “a nationwide campaign for Socialism
be started immediately.” At several regional
conferences throughout N. S. Wales resolutions were
passed urging that post-war reconstruction could
best be effected “by the implementation of the
party’s policy of socialisation of industry, produc-
tion, distribution and exchange,” and the 1944
conference of the N. S. Wales A.L.P. decided to
draw-up a 10-year plan for socialisation.
Dr. Evatt’s Fourteen Points Referendum, if
carried, would have smoothed the path to Socialism.
It was, however, defeated, and subsequent attempts
to nationalise the airways and banks also failed,
despite Arthur Calwell’s exultant chortle (in 1947)
that “capitalism is collapsing and we are taking
over we will pluck the fowl.”
Under the Evatt leadership the habit has been
to shy-off any reference to the Socialist objective;
in the 1953 election campaign Evatt said that
“because of the decisions of the High Court,
socialisation is a completely dead issue.” But the
corpse refused to accept decent burial and, revived
by Chamberlain, it appeared in Brisbane in its new
folksy Pleasant Sunday Afternoon garb, designed
to attract even Bob Menzies, provided he didn’t
examine it very closely. The change has been
accomplished by the simple process of inserting the
word “democratic” in front of “socialisation” in
the A.L.P. objective and interpreting it by an
elaboration of Chamberlain’s alleged definition.
“Democratic” is surely a remarkable word in
Labor thinking. Manning and Kane put it in front
of “Labor” and it degrades the word. Chamber-
lain put it in front of “socialisation” and the effect
is purifying!
The New Look objective was unanimously
accepted by the 36 delegates and spoken of
approvingly by Dr. Evatt and Arthur Calwell, who
presumably will now pluck all his fowls demo-
cratically or else guarantee to put the feathers back.


ROBIN EVATT AND HIS NOT-SO-MERRY MEN


PLAIN ENGLISH
True to Form
Everybody concerned appears to have
run true to form so far in the develop-
ments following Israel’s withdrawal from
the Gaza strip and the Tiran Straits
on receiving a very clear assur-
ance from the United Nations that law
under the Charter of U.N. would be
observed, that border peace would be
guaranteed b.y General Burns’s strange
Emergency Force, and that there would
be no interference with the “innocent
passage” of ships through the Gulf of
Akaba.
Nasser didn’t even wait for the with-
drawal before his commandos began
infiltrating into Israel and committing
outrages of the type which precipitated
the Israeli invasion of Egypt. The
Emergency Force seemed powerless to
interfere even if it wanted to. Most of its
members outside the Canadians come
from nations which have been support-
ing Egypt all along and whose policy is
dominated by Russia. They include
Colombians, Indians and Indonesians
(whose Government is in the pocket of
Moscow). The Scandinavians only want
to go home. And there have been
suspicious circumstances connected with
the Yugoslavs who are believed in some
quarters to be actually in connivance with
the Egyptians.
Meanwhile, Nasser has impudently
appointed a military Governor of Gaza.
His press and radio have made it clear
that Egypt will allow passage for Israeli
ships neither through the Suez Canal nor
into the Akaba Gulf, in which he is acting
in direct contravention of the 1888 con-
vention, the U.N. Charter and the orders
of the Security Council, not to mention
his supposed arrangements with Mr.
Hammarskj oeld.
His threats have been reinforced by
those of King Saud and other barbarous
rulers of the Arab bloc with whom the
policy of the destruction of Israel
remains.
President Eisenhower, who obviously
is much more sick than is admitted, is
away on another holiday. But Wash-
ington, which now seems to be in com-
plete control of the policy of U.N.,
appears to have adopted the stand that
Nasser has the right to do anything he
likes. In fact, it becomes clear that
little matters there save the struggle
between Russia and the U.S.A. for the
control of the Middle East and its oil.
The surrenders of Yalta are being
repeated, for the Russian bloc is firmly
behind the Arabs and has threatened
Israel in brutal language and is obviously
playing, without opposition from Wash-
ington, the same game that it played in
the Far East: that of arming and back-
ing the forces which it believes it can
later put into power.
The Israelis have announced that if
U.N. does not act they \yill fight again.
If they do, it will need direct intervention
by the United States to prevent them,
since the U.N. Force could scarcely stop
a Sunday-school picnic.
If that happens the spectacle will not
be edifying, nor the moral authority of
America enhanced.
In Search of a Policy
Labor, now advocating the filling of this
fair land with New Australians who are
not British, has gone back to the advo-
cacy of British immigration—by which it
means immigration of types which have
served their trade-union apprenticeship in
one of the Leftist British industrial
centres and who are not likely to view the
Australian trade-union policy of loaf, go-
slow and as little work for as much pay
as possible with the same bewilderment
as some Continentals, to whom hard
work, on payment by results, represents
Heaven.
The decision of the conference to call
for abolition of court-controlled union
ballots, however, was the most stunning
performance. Dr. Evatt and all his
followers for years have loudly taken
credit for this provision to their baby
introduced by the Chiflcy Government.
It has been their guarantee that they—
not “the cuckoo Menzies”—took the
heroic measures which have ousted the
Communists from control of many
unions.
Now, openly and brazenly, the Queens-
land conference has given the game away
and adopted the Communist-party line on
the ballots which it also follows in
demanding the withdrawal of Australian
troops from Malaya, even though it pays
lip-service to the need for barring Com-
munist expansion in S.E. Asia. It goes
back to its opposition to compulsory
military training even on the present
limited scale, wiping-out the plank sup-
porting it which was inserted in the plat-
form in 1951, and settles for “building up
the national economy” as a sufficient
form of defence. The Judd Socialists,
Jock Garden and the Communists used
to talk like that in 1920.
Most significant of all its “reforms,”
apart from the dropping of the frank
expression of the White Australia policy
(thus carrying the party’s ideals back
before the days of Lambing Flat and the
1860’s), was the decision in which com-
pulsory unionism was consigned to the
dust-heap because Mr. Chamberlain says
that it “does not assist in building up a
virile, voluntary union organisation in
which people became unionists because
they believed in it” and in “bad times
would enable unsympathetic Govern-
ments to conscript members into tame-
cat unions.”
It is no wonder that rumor is whisper-
ing that Mr. Cahill proposes to escape
from Labor politics and become a
Governor and that Dr. Evatt proposes to
escape from Barton, where he will have to
fight all hands and the cook next election,
and become (once more) a judge.
Compulsion To Be Voluntary
The decision of the A.L.P. Federal
Conference to abandon the compulsory-
unionism plank in its platform was a
sane one ; it was a case of jettisoning
something which was of doubtful legality,
of very little use, and which was the
antithesis of what trade-unionism is
supposed to stand for. How a move-
ment which honors as martyrs the Dorset
laborers who were transported for assert-
ing their right to join a trade-union could
consider it just and right to force a man
to join a union against his will is a
paradox that has puzzled, many people
outside as well as inside the Labor party.
Now that the governing body of the
A.L.P. has changed its mind on the
subject it will be interesting to see what
happens in N.S.W., where compulsory-
unionism is not only Labor policy but,
since 1953, the law of the land.
When E. C. O’Dea, secretary of the
Shop Assistants’ Union in N.S.W., heard
of the new decision he said that what the
Federal A.L.P. conference decided was a
political matter. “Industrial organisations
are not bound by the political decisions
of the Labor party.” He might have
added that sometimes the reverse was
the case, and that Cahill’s Compulsory
Unionism Bill was an example of this.
O’Dea himself was one of the prime
movers in bringing Trades Hall pressure
on Cahill to introduce compulsory-
unionism ; the general belief was that it
was the pay-off for support in the 1953
election. After various denials and dis-
avowals a bill was introduced in
October, 1953, for “absolute preference to
unionists” —a polite way of describing
compulsory unionism.
Some trade-unions, notably the A.W’.U.,
opposed the idea right from the start —
not from any high moral principles, but
because they saw that if everybody was
forced to come in they would lose the
right to kick anybody out. There was the
further'realisation that men joining their
union under compulsion wouldn’t be very
likely to cherish any great feelings of
loyalty towards it, or towards the Labor
movement.
It’s a safe bet that Tom Dougherty and
his colleagues were solidly behind the
Brisbane motion, which for them served a
dual purpose —it reversed a policy they
didn’t support and it promised to
embarrass the Cahill party. Principle
doesn’t seem to have come into it; the
plan apparently is to strive for 100 per
cent, unionism by other means, including
“job action,” which means strikes or
refusal to work with non-unionists. What
makes the union-leaders think that men
forced into joining by such methods
would be any more loyal than those
forced to join by Government decree has
not been disclosed. R. Geitzelt of the
Miscellaneous Workers’ Union was on
the right track when he said “Unions
have to show the workers that they can
gain by joining a union.”
Jail For the Worst
Since a country family of five, driving
home quietly and apparently safely at
night, were wiped out last year by
another car, Victorian police have been
on the watch zealously (not to overstate
it) for drunken drivers.
It is, and remains, a strong human
reaction to a shocking tragedy, and has
proved even more stimulating to the
Force than official exhortations to catch
offenders.
As a result, charges of drunken-driv-
ing have increased considerably, and so
have convictions; but the offences con-
tinue almost unabated ; charges and con-
victions may waver slightly in a period,
but the graph is ever upward over the
years.
The reason, according to police sources,
is that £25 fines, which are the general
punishment for a first offence, are
inadequate. The police want more first-
offenders imprisoned to discourage the
demon drivers who have not yet been
caught or convicted.
Drivers now have the right to elect to
have their cases tried by a judge and
jury, and juries have shown the strong
reluctance to convict that magistrates in
the police-courts have demonstrated as
a rule. Recently in the law-courts juries
convicted only one of 15 motorists who
were charged.
The police case in a drunken-driving
case seems overwhelming, but the defence
is often convincing, too, and juries won’t
convict —rightly—in a serious case such
as drunken driving if there is a reasonable
doubt.
There is, however, a strong case for
the police claim that drunken driving will
not decline appreciably unless more
offenders are jailed if they are convicted.
It is significant that few drivers are
convicted a second time for the offence,
and ■ there can be no reasonable doubt
that the formidable deterrent is the pro-
vision for a second offence of three
months’ imprisonment.
Not enough distinction is marked in
the punishment for first offenders in the
lower courts between the driver over-
cautiously hugging the kerb on his tipsy
way home and the reckless criminal who
crosses double-lines and collides with a
car travelling in the opposite direction.
A fine of £25 in the first case is adequate ;
the driver has a conscience. In the second
case it is futile; the driver is a reckless
killer.
There is scope also for firmer punish-
ment in the cancellation of licences. The
licences of all degrees of first offenders
are invariably suspended for a year, and
it is mandatory for them to behave them-
selves in the meantime and apply to the
court for a restoration; but longer sus-
pensions of the right to drive would also
emphasise the courts’ determination to
make the punishment for the offence
more irksome over a long period.
Anthony's Eden
If you belong to history the spotlight
follows you, whether to Elba or Otehei
Bay. But it will be a pretty distant spot-
light that shines on Sir Anthony Eden
now that at last he has got away from
Waiwera and his fever.
Russell itself always has a curious air
of being at the very end of the earth;
separated from Auckland by over a
hundred miles of winding road ; cut off
again by the steep seven miles from
Kawakawa, where the valleys and mud-
flats are likely to be flooded every time
rain and high-tide coincide ; and cut off
finally by the Bay of Islands, which you
must cross by the car-ferry from Opoua.
You wind a few more miles through
the hills, come round the bend at
Matauwhi, where there is a fish-factory
and a flowering gum-tree somehow
strayed from Australia, a few boats on
the mudflats ; then round another bend
to a few houses on a strip of shingle.
That’s Russell.
Otehei Bay is a few miles further still
into nowhere. By launch from the wharf
at Russell where they weigh the sword-
fish and where the small boys catch
yellowtail at night in the glare of the
electric light, using a bare hook with a
bit of wool on it ; round the point
towards the distant sea where the Nine-
pin rock juts up like a shark’s fin, nine
miles out and sometimes a good spot for
swordies, always for kahawai; past the
green slopes of Tapeka, where Mrs.
Wardell’s pigs sleep under the two big
Norfolk pines ; then away up into the
bays of quiet water, past islands where
an English Army man grows pine-trees,
and islets where nobody lives, and
islands where Maoris grow sheep, and
white beaches where little wild creeks
trickle out of the flax and you can fill
a bucket with cockles in half-an-hour;
past the end of the world to Otehei Bay,
where there’s no township, nobody,
nothing—only a few selected swordfisher-
men, the hairy pohutukawa-trees and the
water.
And what’s to do there? Swim? You
can walk straight out into the warm,
calm water anywhere and swim as far
out as you like: nobody is ever bitten
by a shark. Sunbathe? It does rain a
bit, but the climate is as warm as Sydney.
Fish? It’s just round the corner to the
waters between Cape Brett and the Nine-
pin where the swordfish and mako run
and where, even if you don’t land any of
the big ones, the sea sometimes teems so
thick with shoaling kahawai, snapper,
trevalli and mau-mau that you could
almost walk on them ; but you’d never
need to go out of Otehei Bay itself to
catch all the snapper you wanted.
There used to be some history round
about there long ago: at Russell, when
Hone Heke started the War in the
North, burnt the town and made the
musket-holes you can still see in the old
weatherboard church; and across the
water at Waitangi, where, as Wiremu
Tamehana put it, “seven old men whom
the pakeha bribed with blankets” gave
the province of Waikato away—but
where, anyhow, a reasonable treaty was
made with the Maoris, guaranteeing them
their lands and their liberty.
But that was a long time ago ; and
not, even then, at Otehei Bay. People
and places alike can do with a rest from
history for a while.
Seato's Weaknesses
[liy “Ek Dam”]
The results of the Seato conference sound
fine in print, but mean little. They add
nothing to the cold physical facts of
world defence against Communism
except the reiteration of assurances.
The “three-point plan,” made to sound
so revolutionary in the handouts, is
merely part of the now-forming global
plan which would have taken on flesh
if Seato had never been heard of—
“maintenance of the defensive capacity
o Continued, on next page)
NEW SIZE, NEW SHAPE
Next weehfs issue of “The Bulletin” will he of a new size and
shape more convenient to the reader and lending itself to
the better display of blac\-and-white art.
The overall size of the page will be nf inches by 8f- inches,
and the printed-matter will be inches by 7i inches.
In the new-size “Bulletin” there will be 68 pages, instead of
the present 36.
The change is the result of several years planning and
preparation, and involves a complete changeover to new presses
and stereotyping plant. The printing-units took over two years to
build, and were made in Australia to “The Bulletins own
specifications. They weigh 80 tons.
All “The Bulletins” present features will be maintained, and
new ones will be added from time to time.
The paper will continue to appear in its traditional cerise cover.
Readers should make sure of getting their Bulletin” next
wee\ by ordering it in advance.
Price, ONE SHILLING, as usual


of treaty-members to deal effectively with
armed aggression.”
All members are doing that anyway.
Then comes “extension of the pro-
gramme to detect, appraise, expose and
combat subversion from outside the
treaty-countries” millions of words
about the details of Communist infiltra-
tion and subversion were written before
Seato ever existed. “Development of
the economic resources of member-
countries, particularly the Asian members,
by measures inside and outside Seato”
is the final item.
What with the Colombo Plan and U.S.
aid and British aid and placatory techni-
cal aid, this sort of thing has been going
on for years accompanied by a chorus
from humble Western agents begging the
Asians to forgive the wicked British for
their imperialist colonialism, which gave
them their Constitutions and protection
and nearly everything which makes it
possible for them to begin their independ-
ence on a civilised basis instead of as
Asian barbarism.
The net result of it in Egypt and India
is plain for all to see: in the latter
country a whole State —the State of
Kerala—seems on latest advice to have
gone Communist at the elections as an
earnest of the success of Colombo Plan
efforts.
Indonesia is in a state of rebellion on
the Communist issue. North Vietnam
has been handed trustingly over to the
tender mercies of the Reds, and Laos and
Cambodia seem to be on the way behind
the Iroh Curtain, while Siam is infil-
trated to the back-teeth.
It is governed by an Administration
which has been seated in office by a
series of coups d’etat, including one in
which the present ruler, who presides
over a half-and-half despotism in which
50 per cent, of the Assembly is nominated
by the Government, abolished the fruits
of his own previous original coup d’etat.
He has survived a kidnapping, a couple
of attempts to shoot him and an essay
at poisoning. And his kingdom is to
be held up to the world as the centre
from which Democracy will distribute its
rays of Western light through Asia.
It has yet to dawn on Western leaders
that in their present states of mind
South-east Asiatics prefer slogans to
butter.
The bribe with which the Japanese
bought the break-up of Indonesia was
not economic aid but the word
“Merdeka”; and some other instances can
be found. Cliches like “colonialism” and
“imperialism” are more powerful spells
than gifts of railway-engines and wheat,
since gifts as between Asian tyrants have
all through the ages been the currency
of hypocrisy and bluff and the material
of empty royal bragging and covert
indications of superior wealth and
power.
Seato is an organisation on which
judgment can well be reserved. It is as
weak as its weakest parts—the small
Asiatic countries in which its facilities
and organisation are to be centred. A
much better plan for eastern defence
against the inroads of Communism would
be a combination of the British-speaking
peoples with the limit of Communist
infiltration marked-off along their frontal
arc and a strong ring of defences to
back the warning: “Thus far and no
farther.”
This plan would be far more effective
than the present one based on appeals
which have little effect on the Asian who,
as ever, is out to play both sides and then
join the most violent and lawless.
History doesn’t seem to mean anything
to Seato, because it doesn’t mean any-
thing to Washington, which is its
dominating ingredient.
POLITICAL POINTS
What color was that beacon lit in
Hobart two years ago and seen shining
brightly in Brisbane last week by A.L.P.
president Chamberlain?
• •
When the bells rang at 2.55 p.m. yester-
day to summon Senators and M.H.R.s
to their places in preparation for hear-
ing the speech of Governor-General Slim,
opening the new session, it was almost
five months since they had assembled.
Workmen had worked through the week-
end to prepare the House for them, after
the topsy-turvydom of the Seato con-
ference. A few members arrived in Can-
berra a couple of days early to meet
some of the conference delegates ; they
included two who are especially keen on
defence matters —Wentworth and Kent
Hughes. At one stage during the con-
ference they enjoyed a yarn in the centre
of King’s Hall, feeling safe on their own
ground despite the discomfort of the
security guards, who had been told the
area was reserved for delegates.
• •
The Eddie Ward housing- inquiry
finished inquiring last Friday. It is now
studying the evidence and trying to make
it fit the conclusions Eddie and his
colleagues arrived at before the inquiry
began.
• •
Labor is complaining that New Aus-
tralians voted against it at the last elec-
tion. How it found out no one knows,
but one thing is certain —it was Old
Australians who chucked Labor out of
office in 1949. Moreover, unless it
wakes up to itself most of the present
New Australians will be Old Australians
before it gets back again.
• •
An intriguing sentence in Calwell’s
speech at the A.L.P. conference was his
assurance that there was no thought of
changing Labor’s leaders or deputy-
leaders in the Reps, or Senate. Now,
who’s been saying there was?
e •
Two significant housing facts the N. S.
Wales Government should consider.
Westralia, which has relaxed rent-
control more than any other State, now
has the smallest per capita housing short-
age. South Australia, which from the
start followed a policy of selling a large
proportion of its Housing Commission
homes instead of using all its housing
funds for rental properties, has built
more houses in proportion to population
than any other State. On both counts
N. S. Wales comes at the bottom of the
list.
• •
“You play Ball with us and we’ll play
Ball with you.”
• •
Repeating the opposition it voiced in
Hobart two years ago, the A.L.P. Bris-
bane conference has condemned the
presence of Australian troops in Malaya
as “unnecessary” and calculated to
“injure Australia’s relations with its Asian
neighbors.” It declared that Australia
should use “ideological and economic
weapons rather than armed force to help
Malaya in its internal fight against Com-
munism and Fascism.” That’s Labor’s
viewpoint. The Government of Malaya
apparently has a different one. Its Chief
Minister Abdul Rahman has several
times expressed his appreciation of the
help given by Australian troops and
planes.
• •
Packer’s new “Telegraph Pictorial”
(Sydney) looks rather like a “Week-End”
with trousers down.
• •
Burton’s plan for working-out Labor
policy: “Detailed policy would be what-
ever was determined from time to time
by organised rank-and-file discussions
under the leadership of .the party placed
there by rank-and-file action.” Who
constitutes the rank-and-file? Judging
by his pamphlet and the Brisbane resolu-
tions, Burton does.
• •
In the exchanges of diplomatic repre-
sentatives between Ceylon and Russia,
the Ceylonese Ambassador-elect to
Moscow wins—by one letter. He is Dr.
Gunapala Piyasena Malalasekera; the
Russian man in Colombo will be Mr.
Vladimir Georgievich Yakovlev. Never-
theless it’s a safe bet that the Russki will
be able to find out a good deal more
about South-East Asia than the Ceylonese
envoy will be allowed to discover about
Russia.
• •
Melburnians who have been be-
wildered by the ruthlessness of the City
Council in unnecessarily banning even
the briefest stops at city kerbsides, the
speed at which parking-meters were
installed and the restrictions on parking
even on the city’s limits, now have the
answer. The council wishes to spend
£li million on parking-stations, and, not
to alarm ratepayers, has had to own-up
to its annual parking-revenue—just short
of £150,000.
• •
Defending his compulsory-unionism
four years ago Cahill said that widows’
pensions and family-endowment were
opposed by anti-Labor forces when first
introduced but were “now accepted as
EYELESS IN GAZA
part of Australia’s life.” As an analogy
the comparison was about as apt as try-
ing to compare a Sunday dinner and
Magna Charta, but in view of last week’s
Brisbane decision Joe will probably be
expecting the next A.L.P. conference to
abolish widow’s pensions and child-
endowment.
• •
“In the Act”: With the announcement
that Percy Spender may be translated
to the International Court at The Hague
an intense wave of speculation has
started in Canberra concerning his
successor as Australian Ambassador
in Washington. The appointment is one
of the plums, being well paid and with
a high allowance, but it calls for a man
with special abilities and qualifications.
This is taken to rule out most politicians.
Hottest tip is Allen Brown, secretary of
the P.M.’s department, who recently
instituted an efficiency campaign in his
department. The suggestion is that he
wants everything neat and tidy for his
successor.
• •
“Doormat”: At the opening of a
memorial library at Canberra, papers
reported with apparent surprise that Dr.
Evatt “joined heartily in the hymn-
singing and did not need to refer to the
hymn sheet for ‘Onward Christian
Soldiers.’ ” But surely he looked a little
self-conscious while beefing-out the lines
“We are not divided. All one body we.”
• •
“Actin’’: When the Seato security
guards were being briefed on their duties
in Canberra they were told that it was
principally for the benefit of the
Americans, who claimed that in the past
poor security in British countries had
resulted in vital secrets becoming known.
During the conference it was suggested
that U.S. reluctance to hold general press
interviews was because passes for Parlia-
ment House had been issued to two
representatives of the Communist
“Tribune.” Anyway, the “Trib.” blokes
were conspicuous by their absence from
briefing and other gatherings.
• •
Hawke seems to be the only Labor
Premier still on-side with the Federal
executive. Abolition of compulsory-
unionism was a slap in the face for
Cahill and Gair; so was the reaffirma-
tion of belief in uniform-taxation.
Rejection of State aid for denominational
schools hit Cosgrove directly—-he had
just pushed a Bill authorising such aid
through the Tasmanian Assembly,
though it was later rejected by the
Legislative Council and indirectly
Cahill and Gair.
• •
Britain’s Suez action, so returning
travellers say, has divided U.K. families
in fierce controversy almost to the extent
that TV has done.
• •
Sydney Sunday papers and parsons
commented on reports that Cahill pro-
posed to nominate himself as Governor
of N. S. Wales in succession to Sir
John Northcott. Joe, interviewed at
Surfer’s Paradise, on the Queensland
Gold Coast, had nothing to say except,
“I might even be in Queensland looking
for a Governor.” Perhaps he’s arranging
a swap with Gair, who has also been
accused of having his eyes on guberna-
torial honors.
• •
There’s nothing new in the Cahill-for-
Governor story. Jack Lang’s “Century”
has been featuring it—disapprovingly—
for two or three years.
• •
Thomas Armstrong, Independent
Labor member for Kahibah in the
N. S. Wales Assembly, who died at
Lambton (N.S.W.) at the weekend, won
his seat at the by-election following the
resignation of former Mines Minister
J. G. Arthur after the Doyle inquiry.
Arthur’s father gained the Labor nomina-
tion for the seat, and Armstrong, a
B.H.P. ironworker and a former Lord
Mayor of Newcastle, stood as an Inde-
pendent Labor candidate and topped the
poll in a field of four. He retained the
seat comfortably at the general election
last year.
• •
What happens to Cahill’s land-tax if
the Doc. wins the next election and brings
in a Federal land-tax?
• - •
Another “Youth Festival” is to be held
in Moscow next July, and in the House
of Commons Foreign Secretary Selwyn
Lloyd warned that it was being held under
the auspices of two international
Communist-controlled organisations, the
International Union of Students and the
World Federation of Democratic Youth ;
and; like the five preceding festivals, was
“intended to exploit young people for
the purposes of international Communist
propaganda.” All previous festivals have
been held in countries with Communist
Governments, and discussions and reso-
lutions have been concerned mainly with
current Soviet propaganda themes. It may
be well to warn some susceptible Aus-
tralian youth about the dangers of the
next gathering.
® •
From Seato, via the daily press,
emanated the amazing news that
Australia was now to receive the latest
atomic weapons. The impression was
given by some of the reports that this was
part of Seato’s luscious bounty; but it
is the natural consequence of 12 years of
close co-operation in atomic- and guided-
missile development between the United
Kingdom and Australia.
This programme is reaching its pay-off
with the intended explosion of a
hydrogen weapon this year at Christmas
Island by the British, following the minor
explosions at Maralinga last year.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITWIMBLES INKS"
AS an attender at theatrical first-nights
I am often hurt in the heart by the
stratagems forced upon orchestra-con-
ductors to get from the pit to the stage
for their share of the applause. Some-
times you see them, coat-tails fluttering,
making their run across to a side-door ;
other times you are not aware that they
have left until you notice that a
subordinate has taken over the baton, a
chink of light behind the door under the
stage being the only suggestion of their
exit.
Vanishing from below-stage is merely
the beginning of their trouble ; they then
have to wait hidden in the wings while
the complete cast troops on-stage and
receives with pretty confusion its ovation,
and has cellophane-packages of flowers
distributed at its feet. At last someone,
often the heroine, looks first to one side,
then to the other, with growing and
beautifully-acted distress. A barb of
sorrow has wounded her happiness: Ah,
if only Dadda were here!
Then the face of the heroine brightens.
There is Dadda—how like him!
modestly savoring the family joy from
the wings! Careless that every eye in the
theatre is upon her, she rushes across the
stage, vanishes a moment, and reappears
dragging the fiercely-resisting conductor
by the arm, as though she were Venus
roping a clergyman into a house of
assignation. But once he is properly out
in front of the audience the conductor
desists from his protestations, unhands
himself and adjust his tie; and as he
bows to the thunderous applause the
“Where'd you buy these eggs ?”
heroine retires unnoticed to her place in
the line-up. The cast joins in the
applause; it is not that the conductor
can have them hired or fired, or make or
mar them musically; it is just that he is
such a fine and modest character, and
they all love him for himself.
It seems an affront to human dignity
that a conductor should have to undergo
all this merely to receive the puzzled
plaudits of the folk out front, most of
whom place him as the property-man or
noises-off. \ hope that Sydney’s opera-
house at Benelong Point may be the first
to do justice to conductors, with a winch
installed in the roof just in front of the
proscenium-arch from which a rope may
be lowered at the close of a performance
to lift the conductor straight up and
suspend him like an angel in a beam of
light above the level of the bowing cast.
Whether the rope 1 should be hitched to a
harness round the conductor’s chest or
adjusted round his neck in a simple slip-
knot might be left for the audience to
signify.—“Nunk.”
❖ »> ♦;«
“Mac Hoots”: lam not at all surprised
to learn that Betsy, the Baltimore chimp-
anzee, has been painting pictures which
sell for a good price in the U.S. Her
work would get enthusiastic notices
from those people who are employed by
Australian daily newspapers to write their
art-criticisms. After all, why not a
chimpanzee to do that sort of art-
criticism?
❖ ❖ ❖
“S.S.”: I wndr wht N. Aust. thk whn they rd
the clsfd ads. for RI. Est and Mtr Crs? Phps
they thk “cone pths” are a fm of hdless pyhn
and “sep sew” a new knd of sewg m/c. Do
thy thk “hdy all facs” a new kd of Qz Shw?
Mybe. Wht they mk of “Chev 51 reg 12 mths
wl shd” I hte to thk. “Cit 49 sed” mght wl
be a czy cnvsn btwn furn slsmn and “Mxd
Bus—SNAP—gd pfts L.U. tkg £250 bk dwell
sr” is smthg tht even a bna fd Eng spkr cd
scrh his hd abt.
“Articulator”: Crime
does not pay, indeed!
I was routed from the
cinema by a couple of
policemen who had copped
two teenagers draining
my petrol-tank. Turned
out that these two kids had
driven fifteen miles across Sydney to do it.
As they had only two four-gallon drums,
their maximum take for the night could
be only about £2 gross. Having spent
some time at other cars before mine,
their total working-time would be nearly
three hours —6s. per hour per man ; all
of which allows nothing for expense of
car or getting caught-out. And one of
them, at least, knocked-out £l7 a week
at his normal job!
Hjjt
“Tackline S”: Heard a seaman say that
with overtime he averaged £45 a week.
Looking at some grog-cargo he remarked
that his preference was for French claret.
“But that’s for the higher income-
bracket,” he added ruefully. Where’s the
dividing-line between pauper and high
income?
*l* ❖ ►>
“Sister Ellell”: A patient appeared, all
of a twit, his right hand encased in
a bloodstained hanky. “I think there’s
glass still in it,” he stuttered. He was
shaking so aspenly that I offered a
brandy, which he accepted. I dressed his
hand, a cut an eighth of an inch long,
but no glass; and still the shakes'
persisted. Binding the dressing, I said
“Why don’t you drink your brandy?”
He replied, “I can’t drink left-handed!”
I never thought I’d live to see the day
“Doynest”: An advertisement for the
“Gothic” bra. sent me scurrying to the
dictionary; it’s certainly the last-word
I’d have chosen —my book says
it denotes “a style of architecture with
high - pointed arches and clustered
columns.”
♦l*
“Blufire”: A tie at a Melbourne store
had at one end a label: “75 per cent,
wool, 25 per cent, rayon.” On the other
end was another label: “65 per cent,
wool, 35 per cent, cotton.” The advertise-
ment simply said: “Pure wool.” There’s
nothing like knowing what you’re getting.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Sunray”: Mention in “Business,
Robbery” (B. 6/3/’57) of the sale of the
Leura estate in Melbourne’s Toorak
brought back memories. A lot of our
flight (Waafs) were billeted at Leura. It
was a gracious place even as a barracks,
and the freedom of its gardens was some-
thing to come home to after the rabbit-
warrens we worked in as clerks
all day. There were glass-houses
where orchids grew (the officer
sported one occasionally) and long walks
bordered by espalier fruit-trees. There
were rock-caves and grottos at the
bottom of the garden in a wilderness of
roses and shrubs gone wild, and a pond,
and a weeping-elm. There was an ancient
Rolls Royce in a locked garage, and the
stables looked magnificent from the
outside. Inside the house there were acres
of polished floors and panelling; a
magnificently carved sideboard, and
bathrooms big enough to house a family.
The polished floors will be remembered
by all those girls who had to turn to on
“panic-nights” and rub them up. The
main bedroom housed eight of us, and
we had room to spare.
♦♦♦ +*♦
“5 G.R.”: A very tactful doctor in my
regiment had an ambulance arrive, and
men carry out the captain with great care
and slide the stretcher in. “Officers’
measles,” one man commented.
❖ *i*
“G.M.”: Reports that a Brisbane
doctor had £6500 in notes in a tin under
his house and another £7OO in a radio-
gram, and that a Dalby man found
£lB,OOO in the upholstery of an old car
he bought, reminded me that at the end
of last year the Australian public held
£380,397,000 of the £432,469,000 bank-
notes on issue, as against a mere
£52,072,000 locked in bank vaults. Just
how much of this is salted-away against
investigation by the Taxation Commis-
sioner is anybody’s guess. But consider-
ing there are still, among other large
denominations now out of use, 490
hundred-pound notes and 1276 thousand-
pound notes in circulation, the figure
must be substantial. And it must have
been that way for a long time.
❖ ❖ i«
“Alma”: Those New Aussies that
“Deejaitch” (B. 20/2/’57) found running
a Gelateria must have come from the
south of Italy, where the warmth makes
one dreamier and lazier, so that many of
the southerners almost drop the last
syllable of words, keeping the cadence of
the phrase but not the full words. I don’t
remember seeing a Gelateria as such in
Italy, but I do remember licking many
a luscious gelato. Italian ice-cream is
really something special, sweet and
creamy, and sold in a variety of flavors.
It seemed strange that it was so much
better than the confections of the big
dairy-producing countries.
❖ *Z* ❖
“Ailsey”: Most public buildings have
a foundation-stone, but the Soldiers'
Memorial Hall at Belmont (N.S.W.) has
two and both laid by women. The
stones were declared well and truly laid
in 1921, one by the mother of a deceased
soldier, the other by a local woman
whose generosity enabled the hall-
committee to acquire the site. The old
building is to be sold at auction, and the
proceeds will help finance improvements
and extensions to the Belmont R.S.L.
Club’s premises. The club took over the
hall in 1944 and lifted the debt, but post-
war membership has swollen so greatly
that the new building could not meet
accommodation-requirements.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Ranji”: Noticed the first difference in
the Melbourne “Sun” since the “Argus,”
which pioneered colored news-photo-
graphy, ceased publication. The “Sun’s”
weekly comic-section, which used to be
in full color, is now a drab black-and-
white.
♦l*
“Emtee”: One Government depart-
ment that can’t be accused of sleeping on
the job is the Tasmanian Electoral
Office. Recently it sent a letter to a
Hobart voter only a fortnight after he
had moved into a new house, asking why
he hadn’t notified his change of address
within the 21 days allowed. Another
Hobartian was rocked by a notification
that he would be fined if he didn’t hurry
and get himself on the roll. And he had
been thinking that as he was only 19
years old, he still had a couple of years
yet in which to enrol.
❖ ♦!<
“Bo”: The mystery of how Sydney’s
beer-barons gained exemption from the
provisions of the Weights and Measures
Act—it seems that they can half-fill the
bottles if they can get the public to, as it
were, swallow it —has till now defied solu-
tion. The reasons for the exemption were
committed to a Government file; but
when Chief Secretary Gus Kelly, seared
by the awful thought that the barons,
might be getting an unfair advantage,
called for the file, what do you know—
it had been swallowed-up by the froth,
sunk without trace! Fortunately, as
acting-temporary-assistant records-clerk
in the Department of Backing and Filling
at the time, I distinctly remember the file
and the four reasons given for the
exemption:
(а) Because the leveller the simpler, and
therefore the more willingly.
(б) Because any subsequent licensing of
lion-tamers might have a deleterious effect
on the breeding of prawns in estuarine
waters.
(c) The stamping of the content-measure
on the bottle might cause the buyer to
develop carbuncles on the carotid artery,
schizophrenia, or “pink toothbrush.”
(d) It could lead to nutmeg-juice becoming
a drug on the market, with a consequent
serious effect on our oversea funds.
THE IDEA!
“You can build a home on a bank-loan of
£2500. But it won’t be much of a place—four
walls, a place to sleep, and somewhere to cook
and eat.” —Sydney “Sun-Herald.”
You can build a home for two-thousand-
five-hundred,
But it won’t be much of a place ;
Outside it will look as if someone had
blundered,
Inside, a positive disgrace.
Be satisfied, dear friend, to earn your
bread-and-butter
In the new offices built for you to
work in; 1
Spend healthful nights in the outdoor
life of the gutter ;
Don’t build a jerry built cottage to
lurk in.
If you must have a roof, why not take a
flat ?
There are plenty available for those
who seek;
You don’t need two-thousand-five-
hundred and all that—
All you need is twelve or fifteen guineas
a week.
N.S.W.
SWILIAM.


'T'HE Melbourne Olympics are fad-
ing into history, but one “event”
connected with the Games has not yet
been decided. In spite of intensive
advertising "spread over four months,
Tattersall’s “Olympic Special” lottery has
not yet been filled —and this despite the
management’s plea that no other lottery
in the world offers two chances to win
£lOO,OOO. I fancy it will be a long time
before Tatt.’s run another flutter at a
fiver a ticket. —-“Bookie’s Dog.”
❖ *X* *X+
“Cygnet”: As to “P.O.M.C.’s” query
(B. 27 /2 / ’57) on the letter that took three
months to travel 500yds., I’m assured that
"Have a nice time at lodge, dear?"
the address was all right; possibly it had
the same experience as half-a-dozen
letters I found inside a large packet of
papers with open ends a couple of years
back. Frequently I lay such packets
aside for future opening, but this time
I dealt with it straightaway, to have the
aforesaid letters tumble out. They were
addressed to. Launceston business-firms
—one was to a lawyer—and had evidently
got inside somehow during sorting
(after postmarking) and been placed in
the bag for the country town in which
I lived. I forwarded them with an
explanatory note, but had I placed the
stowaway’s hideout in my “future-
action” box the letters might have been
tossed out for the incinerator. A few
months ago I found a pictorial folder
from South Australia carrying a letter-
passenger addressed to a firm in N.S.W.
* ♦> ❖
“8.A.H.”: With State Governments
saying that lack of money is the only
cause of the lag in housing, and the Prime
Minister adamant that the trouble is
shortage of labor and materials, what
does this ad. in my local paper prove?
I give free or very cheap accommodation
of three rooms to that person who lends
me some money to complete a dwelling.
♦♦♦ *t*
“Tom Trout”: Wasn’t contemplating
suicide —hadn’t been inside, so I had no
pressing reason to! —but I did take a
stroll on the high terrace outside the
Monte Carlo Casino. Across the way,
on a lower level, an open-air picture-
show had a row of view-baffling boards
facing the gaming-joint. I guess the
gambling millionaires are like us dfter
all —not above taking a free peek over
the fence.
* ❖ ❖
“Ragot”: When a spruiker at a micro-
phone in the window of a Perth-shore
store ended his footwear-patter with an
invitation to the gaping crowd to step
inside for a free pair a stampede
followed, and those who had battled
their way in came out each clutching a
ripe, juicy pear.
♦> ❖
“Doric”: “Spenton” was lucky to get
a seat at that Brisbane picture-theatre the
night he heard the interjector announce
that Bambi’s mother was “out with
a Yank” (B. 6/2/’57). No building could
house the number of people who have
told me the same story, but the explana-
tion seems to be that it happened all over
the world, wherever the picture was
shown.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Uramao”: Such a pother among the
Scots of Christchurch, N.Z.’s most English
city; the Paddies have decided to form
a pipe-band. Christchurch has no fewer
than eight bagpipe-bands, far in excess of
the number in Presbyterian Dunedin.
The Irish National Society will fit-out
its pipers with instruments differing from
the Scots’ pipes. Paddy will sit down
when extracting tunes from his weapon
while Jock, tossing his sporran, marches
back and forth expanding his cheeks to
breaking-point. For marching the Irish-
men will substitute the one bass-drone
and one tenor-drone of the Irish pipes
for the Scots’ warpipe with its one bass-
drone and two tenor-drones. Jackets and
doublets will be black and the dress-
plaid green. Green hose and buckle-
brogues without spats will sheath the
Irish legs.
“B. A. Ker”: With April Fool’s Day
this year I’ll come of age as a humble
Bulletin scribe, my first published effort,
a piece of bush jingle, having been
printed on April 1, 1936. At the time 1
had just finished reading Jeffrey
Farnol’s The Broad Highway, was tickled
with Granfer’s ambition to outlast the
rusty old hook in the ceiling from which
a former tenant had hanged himself, and
myself conceived an ambition equally as
ridiculous and quite befitting April
Fool’s Day. It seemed utterly impossible
at the'rime, but I pasted dial item into
scrapbook and marked it No. 1.
latest par. is numbered 1926. If the go
iifSv P of the date on
the page.
* * *
“Tom Trout”: The . unexpected
Cam bridge-accent of the guide gave the
right astrmgency to the debunking o
“ I'm afraid the bureau cant accept you as a sitter."
Hollywood concepts of catacomb-history
when I visited the narrow coffin-
emplacements of San Callisto. There is
scarcely room to draw a bow, despite
all those epics of cowering Christians
being slaughtered by Roman bowmen in
vast caverns. Never more than
cemeteries, these storied galleries were
cut so deep in the soft rock merely to
conserve agricultural land. Plundered
by barbarians, forsaken and forgotten
by centuries of later Christians, and now
only partly refound, they are thronged
alike by the devout and the curious,
whose inclination (if any) to ape the
barbarians the Church stills with solemn
notices declaring excommunication of
pilferers.
♦> ❖ *
“Ceg”: The information (B. 6/3/’57)
that “clients were once dependants or
hangers-on of the Roman patrician
famihes is interesting, since banks, among
others, are now very fond of referring
to their customers as clients, despite the
Bills of Exchange Act, which sets out the
relationship as that of banker and
customer. However big his overdraft, a
bank-customer might not like to think
that he was the descendant of a freed
Roman slave, a poor citizen, or a home-
less refugee from some other city. Yet
this use of the word “client” is spreading ;
I find a beauty-parlor proprietor making
great use of the word, where “patient”
would surely be more appropriate.
* ❖ ❖
“Maitri”: Travelling through one of
Sydney’s least prepossessing suburbs,
street after street of dismal cheek-by-jowl
tenements and shops, I suddenly felt
better: jammed between long rows of
ugly two-storied buildings was an ancient
wooden cottage whose occupants had
brightened it up with pastel-shaded paint.
The present cult of house-painting is
beginning to rejuvenate the drabber
districts. Lately I’ve been impressed with
the improved appearance of formerly
unhappy-looking terraces backing on the
railway-lines within a mile or so of
Central Station. In one terrace there’s
a house painted a vivid blue, its neighbor
is yellow, a third is pink, while a fourth
sports a pale-green coat. With the pall or
smoke hanging over them they wont
stay that way long; all the same, it says
something for the spirit of the times when
people are willing to try things out.
$ *
“Zend Avesta”: A Brisbane freelance
artist was given a man’s hat, among other
things, to illustrate for an ad. The hat
wasn’t returned, and when he was in
the store a few weeks later polite inquiries
were made. He pointed to his head; he
was wearing the hat. The lid was starting
to look a bit battered, so they told him
you' kn”™
cn „ nt t one time selecting that hat in
p Wanted to see what it
tkefliteon Z before drawing it-
wanted to do an extra-good job, he satd.
+;♦ *X* ❖
“Wusslean” • Curse me the reader who
satisfies an urge to.score ‘heauttorby
correc passages
>
“Bunk!” beside them! A book I took
out had been attacked by two such
mutilators : the first, in a pencilled scrawl,
had been critical of the author’s politics ;
springing to the author’s defence, the
second reader had followed-up, in ink,
with “You big Clot!” “See page 65!”
and “Be your age! ” All a subsequent
borrower can do is report the book to the
librarian ; short, that is, of wielding an
indignant red-pencil oneself.
* * ❖
“Buster”: Young lad asked me to give
the once-over to a letter to his latest girl.
He took it very easy till he came to
acknowledge an invitation to tea : “Tell
your mother to have steam-pudding.”
*4 *l*
“Pillo”: One of Melbourne’s chain-
stores cuts keys, the other doesn’t. Out-
side the Little Collins-street entrance of
the latter someone wrote: “We don’t cut
keys, but throats are cut upstairs.” Up-
stairs is where they buy.
* ❖ *
“Yellow Five”: Louie, the%ig Swede,
was the most peaceful, God- and woman-
fearing citizen in the world —until pay-
day ; then, after a riot-day on the grog
he was likely to end-up in anything from
a bottle-fight to the lock-up. It was
following a go-in with the classic
weapon that he was brought by police
and ambulance to my tiny one-woman
hospital in need of scalp-sutures. During
my ministrations he passed-out, and with
the aid of bearer and constabulary I got
him cleaned-up and into bed, blissfully
unaware of anything. Fearing some head-
injury, I pulled a stretcher in beside his
bed and lay down to rest where his
slightest movement would disturb me.
In the dim dawning he awoke, sat up,
looked wildly around, discovered himself
to be in a strange bedroom with a female
in bed not eighteen-inches away. My
bed blocked the door; with a howl of
terror Louie dived for the window. The
last I saw of my patient was a 6ft. 2in.
vision clad in an outsize nightie (all I
could find in the stress and bother of the
night before) high-tailing it up the road
for safety.
* * *
“Pymms”: We were strolling along an
arindinaceous path on the shores of
Noumea when my companion said, “We
can’t go much further. There’s a notice
somewhere here that says Danger
d’amour” “How typically French!” I
thought. “And how considerate. An
undergraduate’s dream of a notice.”
Just then I caught sight of it. Danger de
mort, said the notice. “There’s an
• ammunition-dump beyond,” commented
my friend.
A STRANGE OMISSION
“A public-opinion poll taken on what women
talk about has revealed that domestic affairs
tiead the list with 26 per cent., followed by
clothes 19 per cent., their own health 14 per
cent. Men, fourth, 9 per cent.”
You’ve often wondered, not a doubt,
What women always yap about
When they forgather,
for subjects they are never stumped . . .
Together, likely, you have lumped
The lot as blather.
With weighty subjects such as jokes,
And crook performances of mokes
That wrecked you all,
Women are really not akin,
The reason being that they’re not in-
Tellectual.
You’d think they’d love to speak of things
Like fiscal policies of Ming’s;
Of M.P.’s pensions;
The Seato Pact, what Nato means;
Instead of which, the price of beans
Gets top attention,
Along with how young Benny’s pants
Wear out so fast; the irritants
Next-Doors have turned out;
The blue the old man just put on ;
The bargain got with that cretonne;
Bath-heater burned-out.
Bunions and joint-pains, it appears,
Have less appeal than wide revers
In conversations.
The bitter truth has now been spilt:
That woman’s talk is largely built
On good “foundations.”
It wipes the smug grin from his pan,
In fact, it really stabs a man
Right in his vitals
That, as talking-subject, he
Ranks lower than extempore
Organ-reiitals !
Well, anyway, we glean, at least,
Just what Eve thinks of Man the Beast
As natter-fodder.
And yet, this poll, you’ll all agree,
Lacks one statistic —and to me
There’s nothing odder.
Being one well-versed in the ways
Of Deirdres, Dorises and Fays
You’ll pick it, brother:
There’s nothing in the estimate
Of the percentage that they prate
A bout each other !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Fly to any capital city by
/
NPV422
Pressurised propeller-turbine TAA Viscounts
are the finest, fastest and
most comfortable airliners
serving all Australian capital cities.
RESERVATIONS: TAA BOOKING OFFICES IN ALL STATES
or any authorised Travel Agent.
TAA
PERSONAL ITEMS
Retired today (March 20) after 46 years
with the National Bank of Australasia,
. R. Mackenzie, the National’s chief
inspector since 1946, before that manager
for Westralia; earlier, sub-manager in
Sydney and London.
• - •
New head of the Australian Joint
Service Staff in the U.S. from next July
is to be Air-Vice-Marshal W. L. Hely,
who will take-over in Washington from
Major-General R. E. Wade, now getting
a senior Army post in Australia. Air-
Vice-Marshal Hely, a Duntroon graduate,
got his permanent commission in the
R. in 1930, and in the war was
S. at Darwin, and later director of
Air Staff plans and policy at Air Force
h.q. He commanded No. 72 Wing at
Merauke, Dutch New Guinea, and later
No. 84 (Army Co-op.) Wing, which sup-
ported our chaps on Bougainville. Since
the war he has held several senior
appointments, and is now Air-Officer
Commanding, Training Command. He
holds the A.F.C. and C.B.E.
• •
“Gelt”: 111-health has forced Papua-
New Guinea’s Chief Justice, Sir Beau-
mont Phillips, to call it a day, after 37
years of judiciary work in the Islands.
Admitted to the Bar in 1915, he was with
the A.I.F. and A.F.C. in War I, was
appointed special commissioner to
investigate land-disputes in the Solomons
in 1920, went to the Supreme Court of
the Territory of New Guinea at Rabaul
in 1925 and became Chief Justice in
1938. From 1940 to 1946 with the
R.A.A.F., then back to N.G., to become
C.J. of the new dual-Territory when it
was established in July, 1949. “Monte”
Phillips, as he’s known throughout the
Territory, is a practical down-to-earth
type, and will be missed. Rabaul first
learned something of his extra-judicial
qualities of leadership during the erup-
tion there in 1937, when he organised
the successful evacuation of the town
and calmly and firmly suppressed any
tendency to panic. He was awarded the
C.B.E. for that, and his K.B.E. in 1956
for his work on the Bench.
• •
“J. 8.”: To the list of Sydney Grammar
Old Boys who have distinguished them-
selves in their chosen fields (B.
27/2/’57, 6/3/’57) add John Borthwick,
the Queensland grazier who invented the
rotary shearing-table which has opened
up a new chapter in the wool industry.
• •
The 1956 Rennie Memorial Medal has
been won by Dr. Philip Reid Jeffries,
senior lecturer in chemistry in the Uni-
versity of Western Australia. Admini-
stered by the Royal Australian Chemical
Institute, the award is made to members
under the age of 30. Dr. Jeffries
graduated at the same Uni. with first-
class honors in chemistry in 1948, took
his M.A. (for work on the chemistry of
natural products) and a Hackett Student-
ship in 1951, and then did post-graduate
work at the University of Sheffield for
two years.
• •
Poor health has caused the resignation
of N. E. Kennedy, 11 weeks after his
appointment as Westralia’s first Commis-
sioner for the Prevention of Unfair Trad-
ing. The appointment was authorised by
highly controversial legislation passed by
the Westralian Parliament last session.
His successor, William John Wallwork,
has had much experience of the type of
work he’ll be called upon to tackle. Since
he joined the Westralian public service in
1921 Wallwork has been Clerk of Courts
at Fremantle, Resident Magistrate at
Broome, and deputy-director of the
Farmers’ Debts Adjustment Board, which
the Westralian Government set up to ease
the depression for primary producers.
More recently, he’s been S.M. in Perth
and chairman of the Coal Industry
Tribunal and the Fair Rents Court. The
new appointment will be in addition to
those now held.
• •
“5 G.R.”: Touching the passing of W. E.
Fitz Henry—l had my first letter from
him many years ago, when I was serving
on the North-west Frontier. It was
written in his own hand—a kind of script
—and in it he suggested I amend this and
that in an article I had written about the
Indian Army. Years later he wrote to
ask my occupation, for a list of con-
tributors he was preparing. The list later
appeared in The Bulletin, and the
variety of occupations was astonishing.
• •
The Crown and the Bench, very much
in the takeover business in Melbourne
in recent years, has now nabbed John
Moloney, one of the leading criminal
barristers, as a Crown prosecutor. He is
moving out of Equity Chambers to the
Law Courts. Moloney’s most famous
defence was of John O’Meally, murderer
of young policeman George Howell, who
had found him interfering with cars.
The barrister worked on the case for
months before it opened, and experts
reckon he lost by only a whisker.
Although he was not admitted until 1941,
Moloney lifted his persuasive baritone
for the defence in 40 murder trials, aver-
aging four a year recently. They included
such sensational cases as the headless
body in the Barwon River, as well as the
marathon Bacchus Marsh conspiracy
trial.
• •
Sir Mark Mitchell, Adelaide
University’s Professor of Biochemistry
and Deputy Vice-Chancellor, who was
knighted in the New Year list, is a son of
Sir William Mitchell, former Chancellor*"
of the University (96, and still going
strong). Educated at Queen’s College,
Adelaide Uni., and Cambridge, Sir Mark
joined Adelaide Uni.’s staff as lecturer in
1927, has been professor since 1938
and Deputy Vice-Chancellor for the last
six years. Now 55, president of the S.A.
National Fitness Council (he’s partial-
ADELAIDE KNIGHT
larly keen on bringing sport to the under-
privileged boy) he is also president of the
S.A. Council of Social Services, and
editor of the “Australian Journal of
Experimental Biology,” and likes to wet
a line.
Albert Sherman, sketched by Lusby
when he dropped in at The Bulletin the
other day, paints landscapes as well as
flowerpieces (Angus and Robertson
brought out his Floral Design, with 18
color-plates, last year), but nowadays he
finds the more strenuous parts of land-
scape-viewing a bit beyond him—he’s 75
SYDNEY ARTIST
—and for the same reason has given
away gardening: but he still turns out a
lot of painting. He learned his first brush-
strokes at Truro Technical College, Corn-
wall, served in the Royal Navy in War I,
came to Australia in 1920, has been a
member of the Royal Art Society for
many years (he’s a former councillor),
and has great admiration for that prince
of collectors the late Howard Hinton. “A
real gentleman,” he commented on
Hinton when this interviewer mentioned
a Sherman painting he’d seen in the
Hinton collection at the Armidale
Teachers’ College (the Sydney National
Art Gallery has others). “You know, for
all Hinton’s knowledge and experience,
when he was looking at pictures he
always deferred to the judgment of who-
ever was with him. Not that there was
any doubt in his mind when he liked a
painting. But he would pay the other
person the compliment of asking his
opinion.”
• •
“Judee”: Two brothers who play
first-grade cricket in Sydney make a 120-
mile round-trip each Saturday for a
match. They are Ross Taber, who is
20, and Brian Taber, of the ripe age of
16. They live at Wollongong and play
for Gordon. Ross, an all-rounder, opens
in bowling and batting, and Brian is the
team’s wicketkeeper. The youngsters
can’t take part in the club’s midweek
practice at Chatswood Oval, but that’s
no handicap; they’ve laid down a turf-
wicket on an allotment alongside their
home at Fairy Meadow. And being pnly
seven miles from Bulli, you can be sure
they got a load or two of the world-
famed Bulli soil for the pitch.
• •
East Fremantle footballer Jerry Dolan
is the first Westralian to be awarded the
Australian National Football Council’s
certificate of merit. Former captain,
coach and president of the East
Fremantle Club, on weekdays he’s a
State schoolteacher.
• •
“E.A.”: Victim of a car-accident at
Stanthorpe (Q.), J. S. Lipscomb, Old
Digger, Bulletin paragraphist, and well-
known Julia Creek grazier. He bought
Haddington station after World War I,
and his first love was always the bush,
about which he wrote many short pieces,
as well as the novel Road Going North
with co-author E. M. England; another
novel was in MS. form at the time of his
death. A forthright man, he had a deep
love of fair play. J.S.L. always had a
notion that, as all important events in
his life had happened in August, he
would “go West” (as he put it) in that
month. But a March fog sent him into
the Silence.
• •
New head of New Zealand’s oldest air-
station, Wigram, will be Group-Captain
T. J. M. De Lange (O.C. at Whenuapai),
succeeding Group-Captain F. R. Dix.
De Lange first saw the light at Simla 43
years ago, went to Auckland Grammar
School, and during the Hitler war
collected a D.F.C. in the South Pacific.
After the war he flew the first of the
N.Z.R.A.F.’s Venturas from Honolulu
to Auckland. Before settling-down at
Whenuapai in 1953 he represented N.Z.
in India and Australia.
• •
Pat Lawlor completed his first 25 years
as The Bulletin’s New Zealand repre-
sentative last month. He recalls coming
to Sydney in February, 1932, “jobless
except for a sideline of selling model-
aeroplanes, and very sad at having had
io give up newspaper work, which 1 much pre-
ferred to limping along in the wake of little
bits of air-propelled balsa followed by hordes
of yelling boys. In those depression days the
cheerless seekers of jobs were as many as the
leaves in Hyde Park.”
He asked for an interview with the manager,
and sent in word that he had come to suggest
The Bulletin establish an N.Z. office. Back
came a message that The Bulletin had been
without one for over 50 years, and was hardly
lik,ely to start one now. However, an interview
was arranged for the following day (the manager
agreeing to “shake hands —nothing more”), and
Pat was'put up for the night by a friend living
in the Blue Mountains. Next morning the
friend’s car broke down and Pat arrived at the
office an hour or so late.
“I stated my case as eloquently as had any
Irish patriot from the dock,” he recalls. “I
N.Z. REP.
was nearly through my oration when in came
Billy Albert. Ken Prior turned to him and
said: ‘I would like you to meet Pat Lawlor, he
has just joined the staff as N.Z. rep.’ I left for
New Zealand next boat and have been on the
job l ever since, and hope to be for another
quarter of a century —by which time I’ll be just
about ninety.”
A bibliophile, with one of the most interest-
ing private libraries in New Zealand, Pat was
founder of the P.E.N. centre there (also an
honorary life-member of the London founda-
tion), secretary of the State Literary Fund, and
had been editor of the “New Zealand Artists’
Annual” during its seven years of existence. He
has written several books, of which possibly the
best known is Books and Bookmen.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 83, Leon Leopold Du
Chateau. Born in Bradford (Eng.), and brought
to Australia as a child, he was educated in
Sydney and began a stage-career there, but
moved to N.Z., to make a name as a producer
and teacher of dramatic art in Wellington. He
was the founder and a life-member of the
Repertory Society.
At Hobart, at 92, John Ross Johnston, co-
founder in 1903 of the drapery-firm Johnston
and Miller, and first chairman of directors when
it became a proprietory company in 1923.
In Perth, at 50, Ralph Illingworth, one of the
best-known men in the Gascoyne district. For
several years he represented the Gascoyne
Planters’ Association at Perth Metropolitan
Markets.




ABORIGINALITIES
T SWEAR by the Sutras this yarn is
true. A young married couple,
caravanning in western N.S.W. quite
recently, were camped between the road
and the dry bed of a river when a warby-
looking fellow came along and asked
how far it was to the next township.
They told him about two miles. “Mind
if I use y’r fire for a minute?” “No ; go
right ahead.” He wandered off to the
river and returned with two large smooth
stones. One he placed on the fire, and
while he waited for it to heat took from
his shirt-pocket an ancient red tie which
he laid on the stone that wasn’t being
warmed-up. Then, with sundry curses as
he scorched his fingers, he pulled the
other stone from the flames and pro-
ceeded to press the neck-adornment.
The job done, he put on the tie and
announced, “You know, a chap likes to
spruce himself up a bit when he’s going
to town!” —“Maitri.”
* * * *
“Robbie”: The roof of St. Andrew’s
Church, Warwick (Q.), is being tiled,
replacing the shingles which have given
almost a century of service. The shingles
were hand-cut by the men of the con-
gregation ; the nails were hand-made by
women, and they are still serviceable
today. It will cost as much to tile the
roof as it did to build the church, which
is of freestone quarried near by. Warwick
is known as the Freestone City.
* * * *
“Manamoi”: We were waiting to truck
a trainload of sheep for agistment from a
little siding out in western Queensland. A
blistering day, with no shade in the
trucking-yards. The train, hours late,
eventually dawdled in. A bloke hurried
out of one of the fettlers’ cottages and
spoke to the engine-driver. Then he
whistled-up four greyhounds and several
kids; the fireman uncoupled the engine,
they all piled aboard, and soon it was
chuffing over the horizon. When they
came back an hour or so later we saw on
top of the ’ coal-tender, among the kids
and dogs, three dead kangaroos. Then
they hooked the engine on again and
backed the truck up to the ramp.
“Ninda”: It is impossible to paint up
here in N.Q. without having coat after
coat eaten off by native-bees; even
arsenic-flavored cattle-dip added is no
preventive. They eat the fat off dried
salt-beef, the fat from soap (home-made
especially), and annoy “ringers” by
removing the fat from freshly-greased
hobbles, pack-bags, etc. We even the
score a little by eating their honey and
using their wax for wax-ends in repairing
the saddlery.
* * # * !
“Woorarra”: Announcement of an
open-season for ducks in the Grafton
(N.S.W.) district includes the proviso that
“bags” must be restricted to the black-
duck, grey-teal, chestnut-teal, maned-
goose and white-eyed-duck. Sounds all
right, but I wonder how many rare
species this edict will spare. An
experienced ornithologist can easily
identify ducks in hand, but when the
birds are in water or on the wing even the
expert might be fooled. As for the
ordinary shooter, if he can separate
legitimate from forbidden gun-fodder he
is mighty smart. And for the rest, it
would surely take a heartless magistrate
to convict the bloke who aimed at, say,
a maned-goose and knocked-off some
forbidden specimen.
* * * *
“Mackville”: Can’t concede that any
rot which developed in the timbers of our
early ships was the result of building the
craft in the open air (B. 27/2/’57). In
N.S.W. it is standard practice to build
wooden vessels in the open. The timber
in those keels and frames “left unplanked
for 12 months” might have shown
shrinkage, and there could have been
warping between fixed points, but no
good shipbuilding-timber should have
developed even the first signs of rot
in that time. I recall a 40-footer that
stood unplanked for years ; its timbers
turned grey, then almost black, but there
was no sign of rot in them whatsoever.
Similarly, a hardwood frame of a cottage
may stand uncovered for 10 or 15 years
before rot begins to appear—and then
only in joints or checks where water
could lie.
* * * *
“A.J.S.”: A small country district in
the W.A. wheatbelt is alleged to have got
its name during an outburst of census-
taking. The district policeman, gathering
the information from the scattered farms,
most of them still in a state of nature,
rode up to two toilers taking a breather
by the stump they were digging and
asked: “Who are the owners of this
property?” Two voices answered as one:
“We am.” The policeman had a sense of
humor and filled in the name of the farm
as “Weam.” That was over 30 years ago
and the name still stands.
“Gravelsnatcher”: Scrapping over
territory, a practice of most birds,
follows different patterns amongst
different species. The male bird may select
the territory, and peg it by singing from
prominent features around the perimeter.
This pegging-out may occupy several
days or a couple of weeks, and, apart
from warning off other males, it advertises
the fact that a bachelor has honorable
intentions view mat., and is prepared to
interview members of the opposite sex
similarly unattached and inclined. Since
in this case the choice would lie with the
female, the first to arrive and accept
would claim priority and would fight
“She loves me, she loves me not. ...”
later-comers, not for possession of the
male, but in defence of the territory
which she had accepted the male’s invi-
tation to share. Similarly the male would
attempt—usually successfully—to drive
off any intruding male ; but there’s a code
in these things, and he wouldn’t interfere
in his wife’s battles. The general rule is
that each of a pair is left to deal with
members of its own sex.
* * * #
“Maitri”: Gardeners are easy enough
to come by on Saturdays and Sundays,
when a young army of them invades our
suburb. They’re mostly New Australians
and do a good job— at so many pounds
a day. I can’t help recalling the old days
in England when every big house had a
permanent gardener (generally Mac-
Gregor or MacPherson) who, for his keep
and a few bob a week, kept the place
looking like a picture. If he didn’t get
much money he at least had a lot of
power; in fact, he was an absolute
despot, who stood no interference in his
own domain. He, and he alone, decided
what flowers could be picked for the
house, and woe betide the lady of the
manor if she took it on herself to pluck
a bloom. or two from her own garden
without his permission.
* * * *
“Q. Ree”: lam theoretically a geologist
(armchair-variety), and have been married
to the practical variety for years. Yet I
have only now caught up with the term
“rock doctor.” Even the Fijians use it —
my husband is na vuniwai ni vatu.
# * * *
“Old Mac”: Though I’ve often seen
the tails of “joint-snakes,” “glass-snakes,”
“slow-worms” and “blind-worms” come
unstuck, I’ve never seen any of these
legless-lizards that had apparently grown
a new tail, but many years ago the Bris-
bane Grammar School museum had a
specimen of the little wall-lizard with a
bunch of several distorted tails of various
lengths, which had apparently grown from
a badly-crushed stump. A 6in. lizard
that lived under our kitchen woodbox
grew three new tails at long intervals. Our
cat effected the amputations in each case,
each one being a little further out from
the base. The new sections could easily
be recognised, each lighter in color than
the preceding one.
“Motuku”: There is a great difference
in the table-manners of the five young
magpies that call for breakfast every
morning. No. 1, when the outer-doors
are opened, walks confidently to the
veranda and flies on to my table or the
arm of my chair, sitting there, or on
my bare knees if I let him, to take scraps
of meat or cheese from my fingers; he
doesn’t talk at meal-times. No. 2 stands
back a few feet, lifts up his head and
carols, walking up timidly to snatch a
morsel from my fingers and leap back to
a safe distance. No. 3 stands in the door-
way at the top of the steps rudely squawk-
ing till I throw him a scrap,
which he leaps up to catch
in mid-air. No. 4, the mimic, comes
halfway up the steps and whistles
like a butcher-bird for his share, while
No. 5, a bad-tempered bully with hackles
up and wings down like an old turkey-
cock, struts about on the lawn, ready to
attack any of the others that fly down to
pick up the scraps I throw out on the
grass.
* * * *
“A.J.S.”: Unusual combination of
names in the Badgingarra-Dandarragand
district, one of the old stock-routes on the
lower Midlands now being reopened by
the Midland Railway Company in W.A.:
Flourbag Flat, Dinner Hill, Table Hill
and Cockleshell Gully.
* * * *
an even earlier high-ranking visitor
from Maoriland than Hongi Flika
(B. 6/2/’57) was Te-pahi, a chief of the
Bay of Islands.
With his four sons and two attendants,
Te-pahi travelled on the whaler Venus to
Norfolk Island, thence on H.M.S.
Buffalo to Port Jackson, via Hobart,
arriving at Sydney on November 27,
1805. He and one son resided with
Governor King during their three-months
visit, and the party was shown over the
colony with “every attention.”
The visit was notable especially for the
impact of the chief’s personality upon
King. After Te-pahi left in the following
February, King, covering several pages
of a dispatch with a detailed account of
his doings, commented:
To say that our visitor was merely
civilised, falls short of his Character, as
every Action and Observation showed an
uncommon Attention to decency of
Manners. He was on all occasions
extremely Avaricious in observing and
gaining the complete information respecting
the Origin and use of every thing that
struck his Notice. And there were but few
things of real utility that did not entirely
engross his attention.
In 1794 two other Maoris had visited
Norfolk Island, from where they took
back potatoes to grow. The thought that
similar produce might be obtained from
Sydney was mainly what prompted Te-
pahi’s journey, and he seized every seed
he could obtain.
Before he left for home aboard the
Lady Nelson, placed at his disposal by
the much-impressed Governor, he was
presented by King with a specially-struck
silver-medal commemorating his visit.
KEMBERRY.
ALICE AND MAUD
The Misses Macintyre always lived
together ;
For seventy years they share the same
old house,
And the same longing for Home. Oh far
away,
1 welve thousand miles away across the
sea,
The misty hills of home, the purple
heather.
Said Alice, “It's a crude place, this. The
weather
Knows no moderation, day to day ;
Can’t rain without a flood, or else there’s
drought,
Everything dying, and bushfvres to be
fought . . .
But still, we can endure these things
together.
Yes, at least we have each other."
Said Maud, “I hate the summers. How
they wither
The grassy hills, and burn them white
and brown !
And turn the soft green fields to dusty
yellow,
While you and I are fast becoming sallow
Who had such nice complexions from our
mother."
Yet they and Angus, their tall sandy
brother
(Who left the alien land and went to sea )
Were born in this same country they
decried,
But they were exiles here until they died,
Within a month or two of one another.
And now two trees have grown up
together
Above their common grave, two alien
trees
Bare in the winter, green with every
spring,
With restless murmuring leaves that seem
to long
For different latitudes and other weather ;
But, home at last, the sisters sleep united
With the forgiving earth that once they
hated.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


AN entomologist believes that mos-
quitoes need human blood only
every 25th generation ; it’s one of the
wonders of nature that after 25 genera-
tions they still know where to find me. —
“Tabba”
* * * *
“Roger Mike”: Last year when beer
cost lid. a schooner in Southern Cross
(W.A.), within a few months a penny-
pile grew to almost 3ft. on a core of 3in.-
piping, with an outside layer going up
almost half that distance. Then beer
went up to Is. Id., since when the outer
rim has grown only 6in.
* * * *
“Half-Dirty”: Our smoke-night pianist,
also a magnetic baritone, draws harmony
from the timid and boisterous alike ; and
when the keg takes over he follows, with-
out any loss of melody, any song the mob
happen to be singing. As the lubricated
songsters break-off into solos and duets of
their own fancy he simulates the current
mood by pounding his keys with the
same air of glorious abandon. Meantime,
he has a spare hand for each round of the
jug and misses nothing that the evening
may have to offer. After solemnly
rendering the Anthem, he doffs his hat
as though he had just officiated at a tem-
perance-dinner and briskly departs, with
the satisfaction of being paid for his
evening.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: The blady-grass was
closing-in on the old bloke’s tropical
shack, so he got out the near-
new rotary-mower. With V-belt
disconnected, he warmed-up the
3 h.p. motor, then nonchalantly
whipped-on the belt. My
mechanical experience advised
caution, “It’s 0.K.,” says he,
“I’ve had a good bit of
practice. Saves about fifty
secs, by not stopping the motor.
You check.” I did. But
he missed this time, and the rapidly-
whirling belt locked his hand between
the steel guard and the pulley. Result:
a month in hospital, minus tops of
second and third fingers. Nowadays,
time, as far as a rotary-mower is con-
cerned, means nothing to him.
* * * *
“Wester”: Rising and falling in flight
to the gurgling bubble of multitoned,
flute-like song, the blue-jay headed for
the old mulberry-tree. There it perched
in the shade of the foliage, immaculately
tailored in delicate unrelieved shades of
grey, with black facings, folding its split
coat-tails one over the other incessantly,
an Anthony Eden of the bird clan. The
head moved too, sideways, up-and-down,
fastidiously searching the green larder for
food. He spotted the big grey ’hopper
almost hidden on the far side of a
slender twig, and pounced. Back on his
perch, the morsel was held in his beak,
thoughtfully, for a long time; then,
battered to pulp on the limb with a
lateral whacking motion of the head, was
eaten. After which, the “eyeing” process
began again.
•» * * *
“Woorarra”: Quite a few fowl are
fussy about cleanliness where their babes
are concerned. Removal of faeces from
the nest is a common practice, and this
is usually dropped some distance away,
obviously to avoid tell-tale white
.splashes in the youngsters’ vicinity. In
this matter of nest-cleansing some
remarkable associations between birds
and grubs have been noted. To illus-
trate : the rare and lovely golden
shouldered parrot of Cape York, whose
nest is found in anthills, has its home
kept clean by a scavenging caterpillar,
which lives in the nest and devours the
excrement as soon as it is dropped.
“Cash Count”: Can support
that contention of “Bass” (B.
6/2/’57) that the rabbit-popula-
tion of the Nullarbor varies
sharply with the seasons. When
our unit made the east-west cross-
ing in 1942 the red sand, almost
to the horizon, was obscured by
a seething, gfey mass. The sight
gave me the creeps. When we
made the return-trip two years
later we didn’t sight one bunny.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Plums for home-made jam
can be an abomination (B. 27/2/’57),
but in my boyhood they ran a poor
second to quinces. A Chinese gardener,
bearing the lovely name of Tommy Tie
Tore, used to bring us greengroceries
once a month in a covered van drawn by
two very slow, fat horses. Tommy must
have had prolific quince-trees, for he
offered the fruit “velly cheap.” Mum
bought it by the case, and we had stewed
quinces till we hated the sight of them.
Nor was any relief to be gained by visit-
ing the neighbors for miles around.
Quince-jam, however, we refused to eat
at any price. It was reserved for poison-
ing rabbits.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: Under partial weed-
cover at the edge of the dung-pile, the
bearded-dragon started to sink a diagonal
shaft. With a splayed left forefoot, using
a fast crawl-stroke, she sent the moist
earth flying backwards ; then over to the
right foot; then the rear-feet hooked it
still further Out of the way. Down she
went, every now and then backing-out and
standing, head erect, turning each way,
gold-rimmed eyes unblinking, face mud-
covered, to reconnoitre and rest. Almost
a foot she tunnelled, and at the bottom
laid eight white, soft, elliptical, leathery-
covered eggs about an inch long. Up she
came then, back-flipped some of the soft
loam, then down again. A minute or so,
back out, turn around, fling in more
“Just dump the four bags of wheat in the boot of the car — it's out near the
saleyards—I couldnt park closer to town.”
filling, and down head-first again.
Repeat. Then, as the incubator filled-up,
I saw the pise technique first-hand.
Facing the hole, she stood tensed on all
fours, and her little hard nose peened the
loose earth-globules neatly into place
with a rapid tap-tap, like a riveter’s
hammer. Quaint and intensely human
she looked then, with the soft soil cling-
ing to her face. The hole was now filled,
and neatly she flushed-off the surface to
the sloping angle of the pile, and tugged
and levered with her mouth at the sur-
rounding vegetation till the little hatchery
was camouflaged to her satisfaction
Proudly the friendly little creature stood
and gave the job a last once-over, then
ambled away.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: For a year after
he’d bought the sheep-farm in the Great
Southern district of W.A. he watched
his flock for any signs of poisoning;
but after he’d come through lambing and
a shearing without loss he accepted the
“And next time, perhaps, you'll REMEMBER the pump."
previous owner’s assurance that there
hadn’t been a sign of poison on the
property for years. A few years later
he'd almost forgotten there was such a
thing as poison ; it came back with a rush
when the sheep in the partly-cleared
paddock died like flies, and he found
the plants, young and vigorous, in the
ashes of the fire that had swept through
a few months previously. Thus another
farmer who thought he knew all about
his game learnt something about the fire-
loving native plants whose hard-shelled
seeds will lie in the ground for years
awaiting for the heat of a fire to release
the imprisoned spark of life.
* * * *
“324”: Aunts. During a depression
the city mother writes to her sister on
the farm:
With no work and no money coming in
it's hard to feed the boys. Could you have
them up there until things mend with us?
With them out of the house, I could let
room and that would be a help, too.
You can’t understand what a dreadful place
a city is for a family out of work and
wanting a meal.
A man said he had left the city in like
circumstances to live on an uncle’s farm,
working for food and clothing. He was
not needed- on the place so could' not
expect wages, as the uncle’s sons did the
work and they had no pay either ; but
all had enough to eat and he learned
farming. He never returned to the city,
but got on to the land eventually, “and
I’ve never been hungry since.” Only in
economic crises do men turn to the man
on the land. After destroying his
markets by strikes they still expect to be
fed—for nothing.
# * * * /
“Kelms”: Can someone tell me —from
personal observation —the origin of the
gossamer that occasionally covers my
paddocks and hangs homen^
tree and blade of grass? I know what it
is and its purpose—it comprises threads
of fine spider-web, each thread, or group
of threads, acting as a combination
balloon-and-parachute to transport a
baby spider away from the locality’ of
its hatching. But which spins the thread
—does the mother-spider equip each ot
her brood with its own transport, or is it
the kids’ own first attempt at web-
making?
A FRIEND of mine whose yen has
always been trains realised a life-
long ambition during a world-tour by
travelling on the famous name-trains of
every country he visited —the Chicago-
New York Twentieth Century Limited,
the Flying Scotsman, the Orient Express
and others.
He confessed, however, that no rail-
roading abroad gave him as great a thrill
as we used to get in the old steam days
when the Parramatta-to-Sydney pulled
into Strathfield and a lusty-voiced porter
called importantly along the train, “Red-
fern and Sydney only.”
Being boys then, we became excited
with the thought that our train was now
promoted to the status of express, and
for the next seven miles, ignoring inner-
suburban stations, would be given right-
of-way in a fast dash to the city, racing
country trains on adjacent tracks hauled
by superheated “P’s” and “NN’s.” Rather
than admit that schedules were controlled
by signals and timetables we preferred to
believe that the train-crews really tried
to see who could make the “Bottleneck”
tunnel first.
This was the position one morning
when the Melbourne Limited was flagged
out of Strathfield at the same time as our
train. Excitement ran high at the pros-
pect of our little tank-engine matching
speeds with the big “C 36” hauling the
crack express, and for nearly a mile the
two locomotives kept abreast of each
other gathering speed for a running-start.
Clearing Burwood, throttles were
opened wide and they were then really
racing down the Croydon bank. Fre-
quently the powerful “36,” with its high
drivers pounding the rails, would slowly
forge ahead ; then, with the bit in its
teeth, our little “tank” would accept the
challenge, not pausing till its smaller,
madly-spinning traction had gained it the
lead.
Excitement was at fever-pitch among
us boys as we hung from the carriage-
windows waving to the staid travellers
from the southern city and shouting
derisive remarks' to the driver and fire-
man of the express whenever we drew
level with their engine.
So the race continued as we sped city-
wards, and at Newtown we were a train-
length ahead and considered the race
ours as we roared through MacDonald-
town, hitting sixty-five.
Then the unpredictable happened.
Carriage-brakes squealed and we were
either flung violently against the window-
frames or catapulted from the seats to the
floor. Serenely the express thundered
past, the crew not deigning to give us a
second glance or gloat over our plight.
A broken coupling had parted our train
from its engine and the vacuum-brakes
had stopped the speeding cars with a
vicious jolt, losing us the race almost at
the post.
C. A. L.
JOE THE GREEK
Joe the Greek
Lowers his baggy haunches to the sand,
Scowls an antipathetic reprimand
At gulls and children shrieking by the
brim
Of waves that reach the far horizon rim.
Considers , lunch.
Black knotty ring of metwurst, slabs of
bread.
Bunches of green shallots, half a pig’s
head.
Bottle of rum against life’s usual gloom
To polish blossom nose to rosier bloom.
Ah Joe, my Joe !
That crotchety fellow inside you has no
doubt
It is a lie these people shriek about.
These gulls and children are a needless
bother
The way they wheel splash shout and
chase each other.
Joe, my boy ;
Observe those thin grim maidens by the
rocks!
You wear no coat tie underpants or
socks!
They impale you every time they steal a
look ;
Annoyed that you thus blot God’s copy-
book.
Joe, you convince !
God is most, gentle, humorous and kind
To find a soft spot in His loving mind
For gulls rocks children beach and sand
and sea
The whalebone stiffened ladies; you;
and me.
QUEENSLAND.
W. N. SCOTT.
NEW FARM, BRISBANE
How sod to find New Form
Is nothing hut houses,
When one goes expecting
Pigs, chickens and couses.
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.


£
How much of
Your Estate
will your beneficiaries get?
Specialised experience in the intricacies of
Estate Administration may well prove of con-
siderable advantage to you—and your depen-
dants. Union Trustee’s comprehensive services
—available at moderate charges, limited by
Law—ensure fullest conservation of your assets
and continuous, competent control of your
Estate. Phone, write or call. There is no
charge—no obligation.
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Eslabll»he<2 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
. N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. P. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: A. B. Tilemann. Assistant Manager :A. G. W. Dent.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District Representative
for Newcastle: H. B. Morisou.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT27a
Business, Robbery, Etc
A Bubbling Economy
ALL sorts of stirrings are going
on in the Australian
economy today, which is prob-
ably more akin to conditions in
one of the surging periods of
the last century than anything
seen in the 1900’s.
There is a great deal of pull
Devil, pull baker about the
situation, but under the surface
there is also the potential and
urge for true development.
It is sad, though, that at such
a notable stage of our twentieth-
century development that the
country is handicapped by the
40-hour week and other
obstacles, even though the 44-
hour week is still standard in
a more mature country like the
United Kingdom.
At a similar point in its
development the United States
was probably working many
hours a week longer even than
those now worked in Britain ;
and in Canada, that most pro-
gressive of countries in the
present day, the change-over to
a 40-hour week has been much
more gradual than in Australia,
and more attention has been paid
to the difficulties of a particular
industry under 40 hours than
has ever been the case in the
Commonwealth.
It was impossible to work even
the 44-hour week economically
at sea in Australia ; the 40-hour
week in our maritime industries
is now preposterous.
Last week the National Bank
of Australasia gave support to
what has become almost a
Bulletin cliche over the past 15
years—productivity and export-
promotion hold the brightest
promise for higher standards of
living in Australia.
In striving for greater produc-
tivity, the bank emphasises, no
one sector of the economy should
be held wholly responsible ; and
Governments have a clear duty
to preserve an economic climate
in which efficiency is the main
determinant of the reward. That
is something which needs stress-
ing over and over again in an
economic climate where the
“doctrine of couldn't care less”
has prevailed for at least a
decade.
Our bubbling economy of the
present is throwing-up trouble as
well as other things. Inefficiency
of all kinds is now coming to the
surface in industry, and cases of
poor judgment are being revealed
where supply has more than
overtaken demand in the nation’s
markets.
And so we find a certain
amount of turbulence in most
departments of economic activity.
The Stock Exchanges are a good
indication of this: sharp rises
are occurring in shares of robust
enterprises, while a comparatively
dim view is being taken of
almost anything paving to do
with, say, refrigerators (to
mention only one of a hundred
items or articles which are now
in overproduction).
Underlying the market tone,
however, is the undoubted feel-
ing of great developments to
come in the Australian economy.
This is particularly noticeable in
the low yield accepted on first-
class industrial stocks (such as
A.C.I. and 1.C.1.A.N.Z.) and the
high interest-rates asked for on
fixed-interest securities.
Consolidated Press, Ltd.,
publishers of Sydney “Daily
Telegraph,” (now 5d., too,
incidentally) “Women’s Weekly,”
etc., has, for example, thought
fit to add a participation-right
to the 7 p.c. registered unsecured
notes soon to be issued. The
notes will carry a maximum
rate of 9 p.c. p.a., according to
the rate of distribution to be
paid each year on the present
ordinary capital of Consolidated
Press.
Hire-purchase concerns have
been offering 7 p.c. and 8 p.c.
freely for note-money, and the
semi-Government rate is around
£5 7s. 6d. per cent. Yet some
of the better-class industrials are
priced to yield under 4 p.c.
A.W.A.-Email
Email statement on the
proposed merger with
Amalgamated Wireless is to the
effect that negotiations may take
some months to complete, but
that it is intended to form a
holding co. to take over both
of the present operating cos., and
that discussions are taking place
on the basis of shareholders in
both Email and A.W.A. being
offered one share in the holding-
co. for each share they at present
own in their respective operating
cos.
Email has a present
paid-up capital of £5,532,031 in
21,728,124 ss. ords. and £lOO,OOO
of 6 p.c. cum prefs.
A.W.A.’s capital is £2,225,963
in 8,903,452 ss. ords., but there
is, also £770,000 of convertible
(1962) notes, which, on conver-
sion, would take ord. capital up
to about £3 million.
On the Email statement, that
company’s shareholders would
have the dominating interest in
the holding-co. if eventual
capitalisation were on this basis.
At present, Email has a higher
profit-earning capacity (on dis-
closed figures) than A.W.A., and
on such figures alone the
tentative proposal announced by
Email would seem reasonable.
But the sharemarket, with very
little definite to go on, is still
prepared to pay more for A.W.A.
shares (at 9s. Id.) than for Email
scrip (at Bs. Id.)
Management to the Test
Management and
financial strength are prov-
ing their virtue in the present
potent economy. The textile
industry was first affected —
nearly six years ago. The lolly-
water business was in trouble
almost as soon. In the electrical
trades the props of backlog
demand have now also fallen
away, and there have been
crashes all around. The 10 p.c.
fall in homebuilding activity
has hit the weaker or less
efficient timber-millers, and the
activity in city building has not
helped them as an offset.
Throughout the economy this
trend towards elimination of the
economically unfit will go on as
long as shortages continue to be
overcome and new processes,
new ideas, continue to outmode
old ones. It is a natural develop-
ment and is to be ignored by
the investor at his own risk.
The motor-trade is also under-
going readjustment, and some
manufacturers of builders’ hard-
ware are being put to the test.
Dirk Hartog Island
[From h. Owen]
IT is good to learn that the
“fish,” which had held up
drilling in Wapet’s No. 17b Dirk
Hartog well, was successfully
recovered on March 7 and that
drilling was then resumed.
On March 12 a core cut from
2180 ft. to 2198 ft. penetrated the
Birdrong sandstone, the exact
depth at which the formation
was entered not being disclosed
in the press-release. In any case,
the core showed no sign of
either oil or gas—a state which
could have been anticipated by
the study of data available from
bores sunk to the north.
It has amply been proved in
previous wells that the Birdrong
horizon, normally, is barren of
petroleum substance in any form,
but the news of its absence in
this particular hole has caused
quite unjustified pessimism in
the highways and byways of
oil-speculation. Such manifesta-
tions, in fact, must be expected
only at points in this horizon
where several geological acci-
dents such as caused the unantici-
pated oil-strike in Rough Range
“ Shoplifting , eh!”
1 have occurred in conjunc-
tion.
Failing more definite informa-
tion in Wapet’s press-releases,
and on regional geological
grounds, I assumed that at least
some of the shallow structural
bores had reached the Birdrong
horizon under Dirk Hartog, and
I took this as indicating condi-
tions favorable to oil-accumula-
tion at depth. Even with the
depth as now published, and
making due allowance for
differences of the of the
derrick-floors above sea-level, a
substantial differential elevation
of the Birdrong horizon has been
proved between Rough Range
and Dirk Hartog Island.
It is satisfying to learn, there-
fore, that drilling is to be con-
tinued, although I very much
doubt if the T-20 rig on site is'
capable of reaching anything like
the depths at which commercial
oil might be tapped. I do hope,
however, that a number of care-
fully orientated cores will now
be taken, in addition to routine
coring and electric logging.
At the present juncture it is
highly important —not merely for
Wapet’s sake but for that of the
Australian oil-search as a whole
---to learn every possible fact
as to the nature of the
Cretaceous-Pre-Cretaceous un-
conformity in well No. 17b and
to acquire all possible data with
reference to the extent of the
hiatus below the Birdrong
horizon, its geological history,
and that of the strata underly-
ing it.
W. E. Bramble
AWAY from Sydney, most
N.S.W. industrial activity
these days is in the Port Kembla
or Newcastle areas. Quite often
a concern that had its roots in
Newcastle has hopped smartly
into business in Wollongong-
Kembla as well, though it per-
haps hasn’t bothered to set-up a
branch in the great Sydney
metropolis.
The reason usually is that it
understands coal and steel
people, or that its business is
dovetailed with those basic
industries.
W. E. Bramble and Sons
(Transport) Co., Ltd., is an old-
established Newcastle concern
that has specialised in the carry-
ing business. It, too, has leap-
frogged over Sydney in getting
its feet planted in Wollongong-
Kembla. Now it is branching-
out into a venture far removed
from the carrying trade, but
closely tied-up with the basic
industries of Newcastle and
Kembla. Negotiations have
been completed with Heckett
Engineering Co., Butler, Penn.,
U.S.A., whereby both concerns
become equal partners in
Breckett Pty., Ltd., an Aus-
tralian operating co. which will
recover steel-scrap from open-
hearth slag and refuse under a
10-year contract with the B.H.P.
and Australian Iron and Steel.
Heavy plant-installations are
necessary, and the initial sub-
scribed capital of Breckett Pty.
will be £625,000. To put in its
half-share of £312,500, W. E.
Bramble will transfer the shares
of its South Coast subsidiaries,
W. E. Bramble and Sons
(Wollongong) Pty., Ltd., R. R-
Pierce Pty., Ltd., and R. R.
Pierce (Sand) Pty., Ltd., to
Breckett Pty., Ltd., as well as
paying-in an unspecified amount
in cash.
As part of the agreement,
W. E. Bramble and Sons (Trans-
port) will allot to Heckett
Engineering Co. 320,000 of its
own ss. ords. at a premium of
Is. each.
To provide for some of the
cash portion of its subscription
to the new venture and
additional working-capital 'for
itself, W. E. Bramble and Sons
(Transport) has issued £204,000
in 7 p.c. registered unsecured
notes of ss. each. Heckett
Engineering have agreed to take
up their full entitlement (£48,000)
of the notes.
The notes have a six-year
currency, but after three years
holders will be entitled to con-
vert half their holding into ords.
in W. E. Bramble and Sons
(Transport) at par.
The notes have come on
’Change at a premium of around
2s. 3d.
The Bramble board regards
the present move as a far-reach-
ing one, and is “confident that
the new project will enable
W. E. Bramble and Sons (Trans-
port) Co., Ltd., to increase its
earning-capacity and maintain
its existing leadership in the
general transport and materials-
handling field in Newcastle and
Port Kembla.”
The Bramble parent co. has a
paid capital at present of
£336,525. Consolidated net
profit over the past two years
(before taxation) averaged
£129,485 a year. After taxation
last year, net profit as disclosed
represented 24.6 p.c. on average
capital. For the second year
since listing, a 15 p.c. div. was
paid.
At June 30 last net tangible
assets amounted to £511,872.
Allowing for subscription of the
note-issue, each £1(K) of notes
and unsecured creditors as at
that date would be covered by
£238 in tangible assets.
The sharemarket has a good
opinion of Bramble ss. shares,
paying 135., at which figure
the yield on a 15 p.c. basis is
H P-c.
Grafton Brewing Co., Ltd.,
will miss its interim 1\ p.c. pref.
div. for the December half-year.
Ord. div. was 5 p.c. for 1955-56.
Seasonal conditions affected
beer sales during the half-year,
the board says. For some time
the co. has been the target of
intense competition from the
Sydney breweries.


THIS
DUPLICATOR
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Built entireLy in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold & Co. Ptj. Ltd.
, Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
Vardon Price Ltd.
. Docket Book Co. (Anst.)
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE •
ACCIDENT
MARINE
NEW SOUTH WAL.ES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SIDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4887 (2 lines)
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
My Dad is smart...
I'll say he is! Soon after he opened an A.N.Z.
Cheque Account, he and Mum began something
they call a Budget the A.N.Z. man helped them
get it going. It certainly has made a difference
there are no more arguments about money.
My Dad says that he banks with the A.N.Z. because
he likes their friendly service. Mum and I agree
with him; we both have A.N.Z. Savings Accounts
at the same bank. Isn’t that a good ideas
A-N-Z
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED —Cheque Accounts
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LlMlTED —Savings Accounts
■ANZ37I
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
A
SOUND
INVESTMENT
EARN UP TO
PER
ANNUM
2 years
You Choose
PLAN A
Fixed Period Deposits
8% per annum for 2 yrs.
7i% per annum for 18
months
7% per annum for 12
months
or PLAN B
Deposits Refunded on Call
7% per annum for 2 yrs.
6i% per annum for 18
months
6% per annum for 12
months
4i% per annum for 6
' months
4% per annum for 3
months
INTEREST
PAYABLE QUARTERLY
TERM DEPOSITS
HUNT BROS. (Securities) Limited—
one of the Hunt Bros. Group of
Companies—offers this unique invest-
ment opportunity, made possible by the
continued expansion of Hunt Bros.
(Motors) Pty. Ltd., Hurstville, and
Hunt Bros. (Sydney) Motors Pty. Ltd.,
Parramatta. These well-established
organisations, which enjoy the highest
financial stability, hold direct franchises
for the complete range of FORD
VEHICLES.
Application forms and full details from
Secretary, Hunt Bros. (Securities)
Limited, Crofts Avenue, Hurstville.
Phone LU 2074—0 r any Member of
The Sydney Stock Exchange.
(SECURITIES)
7
LIMITED
CROFTS AVENUE, HURSTVILLE. ‘PHONE LU 2074
BANKERS: Commercial Bank of
Australia Ltd.
AUDITORS: Harrison, Knox & Leslie,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.).
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
ATEW ZEALAND'S Govern-
meht spent £16.3 million
more in the first nine months of
the current financial year than
it spent in the corresponding
period of the previous year.
Receipts increased by only an
insignificant £9OOO.
Expenditure for the nine
months exceeded revenue by
£34 million. In the correspond-
ing of the previous year excess
expenditure was only £lB million.
These are disturbing figures.
Even more disturbing is the
complacency with which they
appear to be viewed by Finance
Minister Watts.
In spite of “rigorous scrutiny,”
there was a continuing tendency
for Government expenditure to
be at a high level, but this
tendency was in accord with
Budget estimates, he said.
It seems plain that “rigorous
scrutiny” is not enough. What
is required is rigorous restraint,
at least as rigorous as that
imposed on the private sector.
Social Services Costly
The biggest expenditure
increase (£4.6 million) was in
social services, including health,
subsidies to hospital boards,
education and pensions. These,
Mr. Watts said, were all items
for which there was a strong
public demand, and it was very
difficult to limit Government
spending on them.
‘ Of course it’s difficult. Every-
one finds it difficult to cut-down
spending, including those who
are forced to do so because of
the credit-squeeze or because of
high taxation. But it can be
done.
Time after time Mr, Watts
has urged the need to reduce
spending.
In his last Economic Survey
he said: “Excessive demand for
available goods and services
remains the principal economic
problem.”
And in his last Budget-speech
he said: “Consumption and
development are now at a higher
rate than N.Z. can maintain with
safety.”
What Is Government Doing?
* The public naturally wants to
know what the Government is
doing about it beyond imposing
regulations, restraints and
controls on others. What is it
doing itself?
Mr. Watts said that one
reason for the increased expendi-
ture was the completion of work
at an earlier stage than was
expected because of greater
availability of labor and supplies.
With credit restraint operating
in the private sector, there had
been a tendency for Government
work to be finished quicker and
for some departments to take on
additional, labor, he said.
Can it Jpe taken for granted
that, in the final three months of
the year, Government spend-
ing will be cut down sufficiently
to make up for the excess in the
first nine months? On past
experience that seems too much
to hope for.
It seems pretty plain that the
credit-squeeze is, to quite a
large extent, simply diverting
expenditure from private to
Government channels. And it is
equally plain that, to that extent,
its disinflationary effect is
entirely nullified.
The squeeze has, in the main,
been accepted fairly readily,
even by those who have suffered
from it, as a measure painful,
but necessary in the national
interest to combat inflation.
From Industry to Government
A squeeze which merely gives
the Government first cut at!
labor and materials and enables
is to step-up its own already
extravagant spending at the
expense of private enterprise is
an entirely different thing, and
is hardly likely to be tolerated
for long.
The opinion is widely held
that the Government could and
should exercise much firmer
restraint over departmental
spending. As far as social
services are concerned, some
people will never be satisfied ;
but probably at least as many
others consider that the illusory
“something for nothing” pro-
gramme has already gone too
far and is due for an overhaul.
There is no reason why social
services should be sacrosanct.
The Government should take its
political courage in both hands
and make that plain. In doing
so it would probably gain rather
more support than it would lose.
Most ardent “something for
nothing” enthusiasts will not
vote for the present Government
whatever it does.
Cost of Borrowing
Meantime the Government is
looking round for more money
and has announced that it is
considering the timing and terms
of a new internal loan. The
market is speculating about the
possible rate of interest.
Yields on current stocks
indicate that a loan offered now
at last year’s rates would not
be successful. A long-term rate
of at least 4\ p.c., against last
year’s 4| p.c., would be necessary
to attract any substantial sum of
money.
Last year the Government
raised £18.4 million on the local
market on the following terms:
Three years, 4f p.c.; five years,
4j p.c.; 11 years, 4f p.c. A £lO-
- issue in June was over-
subscribed by £3,058, 415 and a
£5-mill.ion issue in October was
oversubscribed by £368,870.
Though both issues were over-
subscribed, after a lot of hard
selling by the Government, the
stocks quickly went to a dis-
count. Since the beginning of
December all three have been
priced to yield about 4f p.c.,
sometimes a little more.
The terms of the new loan
might be used to bring about
another upward revision of
N.Z.’s general interest-rate
pattern. This would be in line
with the recommendations of
the Monetary Commission.
Many economists consider that
higher interest-rates are desirable
in any case at present in order
to reinforce credit-restraint.
However, the Government,
which has never quite relin-
quished its attachment to cheap
money, may choose to intensify
its buying support of the market
to bring current yields down and
make another loan at or about
last year’s rates appear more
attractive.
Tasman Paper Loss
Judging by the market reaction
when Tasman Pulp and Paper’s
accounts were issued, the net
loss of £1,750,000 was rather
larger than some investors had
expected. It compared with a
loss of £778,000 the year before.
?
prospects must have realised that
a substantial loss was inevitable
in the last year. As the directors
point out, it takes time for such
a big and new industry to work
up to the required level of effi-
ciency. Another handicap in the
early years is the necessarily
heavy depreciation provision. In
the year under review it was
£1,671,000—£1,123,000 ordinary
and £584,000 special,
Mill-production for the year
wag long tons of news-
prj 22,000 long tons of wood-
] f o r , sa ] e and 10 5 million
board _f ee t of sawn timber (in
e jg bt months’ production). In
terms 0 f ra ted mill-capacity,
newspr i n t production was
a pp rox j m ately 50 p.c. and pulp-
producdon was approximately
60 p.c.
The directors state that the
chemical pu ip. m iU has now
practically reac h e d continuous
operation at full rated capacity,
The newsprint-mill has, on a
»“»*?.<* occasions produced
time P before it does so con _
tinuousl Sawmill operation
restri g ted to one sb jf t tilll
demand for timber improves.
jy.z.F.P.
N 7 F t Products share _
holders will meet on March 22
«° “» dir=c,ors-pro-
fte form
of an issue of 5i p.c cumulative
£f" a 'f existg
preference shares from 5 p.c.,
non-cumulative, to 5| p.c.
cumulative.
It looks as if it will be a
lively meeting, as groups of
shareholders are organising
active opposition to the directors’
proposals.
A letter circulated to share-
holders by the opposition says:
“We consider that these
pro ' ,osals are an
and potentially damaging short-
term expedient designed to
further postpone the now-long-
overdue payment of dividends
in cash to ordinary shareholders.
On this matter the directors
appear to be out of touch with
the views of a large body of
shareholders, and we feel that
it is only by concerted action
that this position can be rectified
and the directors convinced that
the overwhelming majority of
shareholders require a more
positive dividend-policy.”


The Man on the Land...
needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who will conserve his
Estate for those whom , under his Will[ he desires to benefit
fP
, vv»j , o
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY has for over sixty-five
years successfully managed country estates. The Company’s
extensive organisation and wide experience ensures that the interests
of its clients will receive every safeguard and attention.
Ensure for your
Estate the benefit of
this experience and
obtain for your
beneficiaries the pro-
tection of capital
and assets exceeding
£1,000,000.
Write for a free explanatory booklet.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS;
G. B. Kater (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron , 0.8. E.
(Vice-Chairman)
A. E. Bond
F. B. Fleming
J. R. Faviell
Cm H. Locke
Manager: IS. L. Shaw
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary:
P. H. Andrews
Chief Trust Officer t
M. A. Foulcher
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT.HB.IB
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
1.C.1.A.N.Z., Ltd.
MATCHING an increasing demand for
heavy chemicals with an expansion
of production facilities and a wider range
of products, 1.C.1.A.N.Z. finished last
term controlling assets with a book-value
of £40.5 million, or £3l million greater
than the figure of 10 years earlier. The
co.’s expansion programme is by no
means complete, and shareholders are
currently being offered 4,860,000 £1 ords.
at a ss. premium in the proportion of two
for every five held.
The flood of “rights” to new issues now
on the market has not as yet produced
any spectacular bargains, and at 18s. 9d.
the 1.C.1.A.N.Z. “rights” are only
slightly cheaper than the existing ords.,
which at 465. 6d. return 3.9 p.c. from a 9
p.c. div. On September 30 last the ords.
had a net tangible backing of 30s. 7d.
The £1 5 p.c. prefs., tangible backing
£l9 11s. Bd., return 5.8 p.c. at 17s.
A member of the world-wide 1.C.1.
organisation, 1.C.1.A.N.Z. was formed in
1928 as a subsidiary of Imperial Chemical
Industries, Ltd. (U.K.), and is today one
of the largest industrial undertakings in
Australia. The parent co. remains a sub-
stantial shareholder, and although
1,000,000 5 p.c. prefs. were offered to the
public in 1938, ord. scrip was not
available until 1950, when 1,006,505 £1
ords. were issued at a premium of 2s. 6d.
The co., with its 11 subsidiaries
(including four in New Zealand), pro-
duces or imports an extensive range of
industrial and agricultural chemicals,
explosives, alkalis, plastics, drugs, dyes,
paints and slide-fasteners. The range and
quantity of local production has been
steadily increased, and, since 1950,
£10,676,088 of fresh share-capital has
been raised and £6,000,000 borrowed
under mortgage-debentures, while a
moderate div. policy has allowed sub-
stantial sums to be retained for develop-
ment. When the current issue is fully
paid (April, 1958) paid capital will
amount to £18,010,000 and share-
premium reserves to £1,734,563.
Last term (to September 30), sales of
the parent and its wholly-owned sub-
sidiaries totalled £36,723,000, an increase
of 13.2 p.c. Demand for the group’s pro-
ducts was “satisfactory” and in a few
cases greater than production. Higher
operating oosts and increased taxation,
however, claimed a larger share of
revenue, and net earnings improved by
only 1.7 p.c. (£36,490), to £2,164,493,
after setting aside £1,658,106 for deprecia-
tion (up £334,540) and £1,980,735 for
taxation (up £172,154):
f Dividends————,
Pref. Re-
Sept., Profit.* 5 p.c. , Ord. serves.!
Sj £/ £/ & £>
’62.. 1,140,164 50,000 7 p.c. = 618,257 2,133,872
Reserve adjustments, £736,357 net 2,870,229
Added intangibles, £66,482 .. 2,813,747
’63. .1,229,048 50,000 7 p.c. = 705,797 3,286,998
From deferred tax res., £46,600 4,077,525
Unexplained reduction, £51,000 net 3,282,998
’54. .1,722,777 50,000 8 p.c. = 924,750 4,031,025
From deferred tax res., £46,500 4,077,525
Less added Intangibles, £189,899 3,849,010
Unexplained addition, £137,923 .. 3,986,933
’55. .2,128,003 50,000 9 4,971,436
From deferred tax reserves, £43,500 5,014,936
Surplus, liquidation subsidiaries,
£14,896 5,029,832
Reduction intangibles, £5562 .. 6,036.394
Sinking-fund income, £4277 .. 5,039,671
Unexplained addition, £374,131 .. 5,413,802
’56. .2,164,493 50,000 9 p.c. =1,093,500 6,534,795
•Eliminating outsiders’ proportion, t Deducting
intangibles (now £986,069).
Not included in the £2,164,493, adjust-
ments, sundry income, etc., strengthened
reserves by £442,366. The pref. div. took
£50,000 of the earnings, the balance
representing a return of 17.3 p.c. from
ord. capital, compared with 17.1, 14.4,
11.6 and 12.3 p.c. back to 1952. The
ord. div., lifted from 8 p.c. to 9 p.c. in
the preceding term, was maintained at
that figure, earnings being sufficient to
cover unaltered divs. on pref. and ord.
capital after completion of the new share-
issue, with £583,593 to spare.
A new nitroglycerine plant, the largest
of its type in the world, was installed at
the Deer Park (Vic.) works during the
term and a start made on a £1,000,000
office-building in Sydney. With other
additions to plant and extensions to
factories there was a net increase of
£1,428,629 in the book-value —cost or
valuation, less depreciation—of fixed
assets. To help finance the capital-
expenditure, heavier stocks (up
£1,436,166) and an extra £1,511,531 of
debtors, the overdraft was stretched by
£2,283,948 to £2,963,620, and holdings of
cash, etc., reduced by £968,071. —
1.0.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £13,160.000 £13,150,000 £13,150.000
Reserves .. 4,832,757 5,963,067 7,420.864
Debentures . . 6,000,000 6,000,000 6.000,000
Outside interests* 1,389,060 954,234 1,333,754
Overdraft . . 714,008 679,672 2,963,620
Creditors, etc. 4,698,487 5,670,134 6,002,451
Taxation, etc. 3,778,690 3,927,239 3,975.722
Final div. .. 528,505 676,583 677,278
£35,091,497 £37,020,929 £40,523.689
Freeholds, plant,
etc 12,546,095 13,567,600 14,996,229
Stocks .. 11,756,475 12,520,341 13,956,507
Debtors . . 6,010,947 6,404,290 7,915.821
Shares, etc. .. 1,285,372 855,934 956,001
Cash, bonds .. 2,690,876 2,681,133 1,713,062
Intangibles .. 801,732 991,631 986,069
£35,091,497 £37,020,929 £40,523.689
* Includes proportion reserves.
With future expansion plans in mind the
co. bought approximately 1500 acres of
land at Bass Point, south of the
Wollongong and Pt. Kembla area and
roughly 70 miles from Sydney.
Extensions to plant and buildings now
in progress will increase the output of
dyes and plastics and lift production of
alkalis by 15 p.c. The 70 p.c.-owned
B.A.L.M. Paints Pty., is also making
extensive additions to plant, to be
financed from the proceeds of a
£1,000,000 share-issue, the parent draw-
ing on retained earnings, new capital
and a £1,000,000 loan to finance its own
programme.
Earnings should benefit from the still-
increasing demand for the group’s pro-
ducts, and, ultimately, shareholders should
see some reward for the high proportion
of profits reinvested in the co.
Waltons-Sears, Ltd.
INVESTMENT interest in the Waltons-
Sears corporate partnership has
undergone a revival lately. On ’Change
the f.-p. ss. ords., which stood at
14s. 7d. earlier in the year, now bring
16s. 3d. for, a return of only 4.5 p.c. on a
15 p.c. div. basis. The contributing
shares (tenpence uncalled) are at 14s. Id.
The sharemarket first had its imagina-
tion stirred by the prospects of a union
between Waltons, Ltd., of Sydney, and
the American retailer Sears, Roebuck
and Co. in April, 1955, when a joint
approach was made by them to acquire
the business of Foy and Gibson, Ltd.
Their offer was not accepted. Then,
later in the year, it was announced that
Sears had been offered the right to take
up a 50 p.c. ord.-share interest in
Waltons at a cost of IDs. for each ss.
share. The offer will remain open until
December 31, 1960, or until a later date,
if the board considers it necessary, to
avoid overcapitalising the business. In
the event of a new bonus or cash issue to
ordinary shareholders Sears would have
the opportunity to maintain the propor-
tion of its investment on the same terms
and conditions as ord. shareholders. In
return, Sears has agreed to provide in-
formation about its methods of merchan-
dising, personnel-training and store-
planning, etc., at not more than cost,
and to allow Waltons to retail goods
made in Australia under Sears trade-
names or trade-marks.
The initial investment was to be of not
more than £1 million, comprised equally
of capital and premium, all of which
had been subscribed by July 26 last.
Injection of the American capital and
experience promises well for the future
of the co., though Waltons has been a
vigorous expander in its own right. As
it began in 1926 it was a cash-order and
finance house. Later, in 1937, it branched
out into the field of furniture-retailing in
Sydney, and, in the following years,
opened stores elsewhere in N.S.W.,
Queensland and Victoria. Six years ago
it bought the department-store business
of Murdoch’s, Ltd. (Sydney), and pro-
ceeded (even then) to remodel its whole
organisation along the lines of the Sears,
Roebuck chain, where the emphasis is on
big turnovers at a low margin of profit.
Last term, subsequent to Sears’s entry,
the co. followed up its original attempt to
acquire Foy and Gibson with an offer
for the £3,719,000 ordinary capital of
the F. and G. purchaser Cox Bros.
(Aust.), Ltd: of Melbourne. After some
brisk skirmishing between the respective
boards this offer (£2,231,400 cash and
£1,239,666 ord. scrip) was also rejected.
The co. had more success later in the
year when it got control of one of its
Brisbane neighbors, department-store-
keeper Overell’s, Ltd., and Wakes Con-
solidated, Ltd., a Melbourne co. specialis-
ing in mail-order business. Cost of
Overell’s £150,000 of ord. scrip was
£187,500 (par-value) of Waltons-Sears
ords. Terms on which Wakes’ capital
(£123,995 ord. and £90,000 pref.) was
acquired weren’t disclosed.
Mail-orders account for about a third
of Sears’s American ,sales, and it is
planned to develop this type of business
by the Australian organisation.
Reviewing the 1956 term, chairman
N. B. Rydge said benefits had already
been obtained from the change-over to
Sears’s methods though much remained
to be done. All stores recorded more
business, and aggregate turnover rose
£2,750,000 (or about 16 p.c.) to just on
£2O million. In 1950 the figure was £5
million.
After depreciation and taxation, net
profit was written £45,065 stronger at
£477,127. Allowing for the pref. charges,
it was equal to 18.6 p.c. on average
ordinary capital as against 23.4 p.c. the
year before: —
Parent and Subsidiaries.
r Dividends
Ist 2nd To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref.Pref.Ord. Total. serves. serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £ £
’s3f. 266,275 10 6 15 181,270 85,005 286,205
Revaluation assets, £766,018 . • 1,062,223
Reduction intangibles, etc., £6764 . . 1,058,987
Debenture exes., £66,621 .. .. 1,002,366
’54.. 341,294 10 6 15 211,172 130,122 1,132,488
Reduction intangibles, £2201 .. 1,134,689
Unexplained additions, £2ll .. 1,134,900
’55.. 432,062 10 6 15 287,929 144,133 1,279,033
To staff fund, £50,000 .. .. 1,229,033
Added capital reserves, £313,702 .. 1,542,735
Share premiums, £503,650 .. 2,046,385
Less added intangibles, £146,168 .. 1,900,217
Unexplained reduction, £49 . . 1,900,168
’56.. 477,127 10 6 15 390;663 86,474 1,986,642
To staff fund, £35,000 .. .. 1,951,642
•After deducting goodwill, etc., £565,122 at
31/7/’66. f Thirteen months.
For the tenth year in succession the ords.
got 15 p.c. Both lots of div., pref. and
ord., took 81.9 p.c. of the term’s profit,
but the position should appear more
comfortable when the co. has had time
to consolidate recent growth.
Additions of £313,702 were made to
capital reserves, and the Sears share-
holders contributed £503,650 in pre-
miums. To show reserves net of the
co.’s intangible assets, £146,168 has been
deducted, representing the excess of book-
value over par of shares acquired in the
two new subsidiaries.
Most of the year’s growth in the
balance-sheet represents the purchase of
these cos. and the share-interest taken up
by Sears:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Ist Pref. . . £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
2nd Pref. .. 250,000 250,000 250,000
Ord. . . 1,447,326 1,872,690 2,749,493
Reserves . . 1,553,643 1,647,987 2,516,764
Outside interests 40,051 38,700 128,746
Debentures, over-
draft .. 4,642,386 4,816,732 4,964,205
Creditors, etc.* 1,557,986 1,727,047 2,003,233
Pinal divs. . . 110,924 160,452 216,234
£9,752,316 £10,653,608 £12,978,675
Freeholds .. 2,123,841, 2,128,927 2,705,105
Plant, etc. . . 305,910 366,827 *498,242
Deb. sinking fund 59,711 89,188 121,041
Shares other cos. 70,582 62,783 69,514
Stock, etc. . . 2,256,758 1,824,316 1,843,462
Debtors . . 4,475,654 5,729,801 7,150,644
Cash . . ' . . 38,705 32,812 35,545
Intangibles .. 421,155 418,954 565,122
£9,752,316 £10,653,608 £12,978,675
* Includes provisions for taxation and contingencies.
Biggest increases on the assets side of
the balance-sheet were in freeholds and
shop-fittings, etc. (up £707,593), book-
debts (up £1,420,843), and the intangibles
mentioned.
Last month it was announced that a
new “A”-type store, the biggest built by
Sears, Roebuck, will be erected soon at a
cost of £2-million. Land has already
been bought at an undisclosed location.
A new central warehouse is also planned
on an 11-acre site at Chullora. Nothing
has been said about finance but,
obviously enough, for the time being the
most desirable source of funds for
development would be Sears. For every
£ of Waltons-Sears capital subscribed
for by the American, in the terms of
their agreement, also brings in a £ of
premium.
Including the uncalled capital net
tangible asset support for the scrip is
first prefs. £36 155., seconds £2l 95., and
ords. Bs. Id.
Kauri Timber Co., Ltd.
'THE well - established sawm i 11 er,
•*- timber-importer and merchant, Kauri
Timber Co., Ltd., reported a 22 p.c. drop
in net earnings for the year to August 31
last. Kauri Timber Co. and its sub-
sidiaries operate in New Zealand, the
Solomon Islands and all Australian
States, but, according to all directors,
“unfavorable trading” in West Australia
was mainly responsible for the lower
profit.
Although a reduced demand for the
co.’s products in one State seems to have
had a disproportionate effect on overall
trading results, the earning-rate was far
from unsatisfactory, and, even with a
2 p.c. bonus added to the cautious 8
p.c. ord.-div. rate (adopted in 1950),
less than half of the profit went to share-
holders :
Kauri Timber & Subsidiaries.!
, —Dividends— N To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Pref.Ord. Total. serves. serves.*
. £ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1952. .281,109 5 8 85,000 196,109 521,175
Tax overprovided, £35,977 .. .. 557,152
Fire insurance recovered, etc.,
£86,363 643,515
Net addition reserves, £87,500 .. 731,015
1953. .170,276 6 8 85,000 85,276 816,291
Tax overprovided, £1899 .. .. 818,190
Net addition reserves, £123,260 .. 941,450
1954. .321,872 5 8 85,000 236,872 1,178,322
Tax overprovided, £1383 .. .. 1,179,705
Net addition reserves, £26,484 .. 1,206,189
Added intangibles, £38,946 .. 1,167,243
1955. .414,273 5 8 85,000 325,274 1,492,516
Added intangibles, £141,177 .. 1,351.339
Tax underprovided, £3BO .. .. 1,350,959
Pre-acquisition loss, £3232 .. .. 1,347.727
Unexplained reduction, £159,661 .. 1,188,066
1956. .323,211 5 10 158,350 164,861 1,352.927
t After deducting outside shareholders’ interests.
* After deducting intangibles, £1,059,476 at
30/6/’56.
Earnings, down £91,062 at £323,211,
covered the pref. div. and 22.2 p.c. on
average ord. capital, compared with 51.9,
32.4, 12.2, 27 and 40.4 p.c. on the lower
capital of the five preceding years. The
£323,211 was arrived at after providing
£241,253 (up £30,565) for depreciation
and £349,989 (down £84,361) for taxation,
but doesn’t take into account an
unexplained reduction of £159,661 in
reserves.
Kauri has expanded considerably since
the 1939-45 war ; numerous small timber-
mills have been bought, the investment


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Anvi.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
r'ld
7 '7 /v X
"-VV Ua
;]
, r
4 >T,
V
//
fA
: ..:■■■
7
-V
N,
It
11
7.%
■
il
out
i ’ : s
. . . he*s the
best-dressed man
(iriisaftcr
BC&STEBED TOLAOC MMX
See what happens when you ask a tailor
to make you a suit from Crusader cloth.
Look at the difference. It’s so noticeable.
There’s a quality look about that suit,
an outstanding touch of refinement and artistry.
Yes, good-grooming begins
with the cloth you choose.
And if you choose Crusader, you’ve chosen the best.
the finest pure wool cloth ever made in Australia.
So the man who stands out is the well-dressed man
in Crusader cloth. It’s all wool, made in the shades
and patterns you want.
It’s the cloth that people admire.
G UARAN TE E D N EVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
C 8.113
in plywood- and case-manufac-
turing subsidiaries increased and
with the acquisition last term of
the South Australian steel-
merchant, J. Sankey Robinson,
Ltd., the co. has enlarged its
steel-merchandising business in
that State. Newly-acquired sub-
sidiaries include Penola Timbers,
Ltd. (S.A.), and Industrial Pro-
ducts, Pty., (W.A.), while an
existing Westralian offshoot,
Douglas Jones Pty., has taken
over a hardware business at
Albany (W.A.). Coreboard, Ltd.,
formed as a subsidiary several
years ago, recently commenced
production of okal-board (manu-
factured from wood-waste) at a
modern Mt. • Gambier (S.A.)
factory, and the co. is now con-
sidering the manufacture of the
board in New Zealand.
To finance the rapid expan-
sion of the last decade the co.
has retained a sizeable propor-
tion of earnings and issued 7150
£lOO 4 p.c. debentures and
500,000 £1 5 p.c. redeemable
prefs. Late in 1955, however, it
was decided to increase ord.
capital—for the first time in 35
years—and a one-for-one par
issue was followed in less than
twelve months by a one-for-five
issue and a combined 7 p.c.-note
and ord.-share offering. With
130,000 £1 ords. exchanged in
the Industrial Products trans-
action, ord. capital now stands
at £2,180,000, a jump of
£1,430,000 since August, ’55.
The 5 p.c. prefs. have been
repaid to the extent of £66,000
and £33*000 will be returned
annually until 1969.
The balance-sheet movements
reflect the continued growth of
the co., but the £920,425 increase
in the cost - less - depreciation
value of fixed assets was accom-
panied by a big (£938,703)
build-up of stocks:
Consolidates* Balance-sheet.
1955. 1956.
Paid capital ..£1,217,000 £1,984,000
Reserves . . 2,410,815 2,412,403
Outside interests 658,159 694,816
Debentures . . 720,000 720,000
Overdraft . . 2,280,275 2,910,797
Sundry creditors* 1,252,761 1,841.470
Inter-co. suspense 30,682 8,089
Pinal divs. .. 37,500 105,000
£8,607,192 £10,626.575
Properties .. . . 1,353,555 1,629,280
Plant, etc. . . 1,199,641 1,844.341
Shares Other cos. 67,951 67,961
Stocks .. . . 3,264,261 4,202,964
Debtors .. .. 1,511,937 1,563.711
Cash, etc. .. 291,548 258.842
Intangibles .. 918,299 1,059,476
£8,607,192 £10,626.575
* Including tax-provision, etc.
Creditors (including tax-pro-
vision and an extra £322,022 in
deposits, etc.) increased by
£588,709, and by the end of the
term the amount owing to the
bank had risen by £630,522 to
£2,910,797, almost £1,000,000
greater than the then paid
capital. Proceeds of subsequent
share- and note-issues have since
enabled a reduction in current
liabilities. The accumulation of
reserves could hardly have been
expected to keep pace with the
swift growth of share-capital,
and the ratio was further
weakened by adjustments which
reduced reserves by £159,661,
while £141,177 was added to
intangibles, further reducing net
reserves.
Difficult trading conditions
are reported by the timber-
industry in the current term, and
an improvement in earnings on
the scale of Kauri’s 1954
recovery seems unlikely. How-
ever, the board states that, in
future, share- or loan-money
will be raised to satisfy any
“major” financial requirements.
This suggests that the larger pro-
portion of earnings probably
needed in the next few years to
maintain a 10 p.c. div. on the
greatly enlarged ord. capital will
be available for distribution.
Last term’s net profit would
cover the pref. and a continued
10 p.c. ord. div with more than
£BO,OOO to spare.
The consolidated accounts (at
August 31) showed a net tangible
backing of £7 11s. 6d. for the
£1 prefs. and 38s. for each of the
1,500,000 f.-p. £1 ords. issued at
that date. At 265. the ords.
would return 7.7 p.c. from a
10 p.c. div.
Warburton, Franki, Ltd.
T AST year’s setback to the
“ L ' Warburton, Franki organisa-
tion was the first serious thing
of its kind for many years. Long
established in the electrical-
engineering and manufacturing
business, the co. has had a
remarkably good post-war
history.
Shareholders, who got only
moderate dividends during most
of the ’thirties and the later
war years, have had divs.
totalling 147.5 p.c. (ord. and
pref.) over the last 10 years, and
£50,000 of free scrip, handed out
on a one-for-five basis in Sep-
tember, 1954. Simultaneously
with that issue, shareholders
also put up £50,000 of new ord.
money at a 50 p.c. premium,
and in 1956 they were offered
another 70,000 £1 ords., at par,
which raised paid capital to
£420,000 (£150,000, 1947), in-
cluding £20,000 in participating
prefs.
Last term results in the
electrical workshops and the
merchandising departm en ts
(handling accessories, lamps,
tools, instruments and electric
motors) were good, and the
country branches (Wollongong
and Newcastle) also traded well.
The difficulties experienced were
mainly in launching the elec-
tricity-meter manufacturing pro-
ject at North Sydney and slack-
ness in the domestic-refrigerator
business. Meter production got
into full stride over the second
half of the year, and orders on
hand and coming forward will
keep the plant busy well into
the current term.
The co.’s chairman is also
hopeful that the market for
domestic refrigerators won’t be
as difficult this year. Demand
for commercial and industrial
refrigeration is quite healthy.
Including dividends received
from the subsidiary and associate
cos. (in Melbourne and Bris-
bane), and after allowing
unspecified amounts against
depreciation and income-tax, net
earnings were £20,425 smaller
at £41,399:
, Dividends N Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1950.. 67.235 17$ 17$ 33,437 118,495
1951.. 414 17$ 17-1 40,625 148.284
1952.. 345 17$ 17$ 43,750 175.879
1953. 15 15 37,500 199,894
From inner reserves, £12,168 212,062
Assets revalued, £70,590 . . 282.652
Unexpl’d addition, £5000.. 287,652
1954. 15 15' 37,500 306.034
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 256.034
Share-premiums, £25,000 . . 281.034
1955. 15$ 12$ 39,583 303,276
Bonus share-issue from subsid.
Warburton, Franki (Melb.),
Ltd., £53,388 .. .. 356.604
Profit sale assets, £823 . . 357,487
1956.. 12$ 12$ 44,479 354.407
On average capital (pref. and
ord.) the £41,399 profit was 11.6
p.c. It thus just failed to cover
the 12| p.c. div. The items inter-
lined in the fable refer to a one-
ior-one bonus issue made by
Warburton, Franki (Melbourne),
and to a small profit made on the
sale of property at Berry’s Bay
(Sydney).
Value placed on the Mel-
bourne co.’s bonus scrip was
par, a conservative basis of
valuation also applied to the
shareholding in the Brisbane
associate. Last sales of the
respective cos.’ £1 ords. were
at 355. (Melbourne) and 255.
(Brisbane).
In the balance-sheet freeholds
and plant were £34,863 bigger,
representing purchase of new
premises at Wollongong and
Newcastle, less the sale of the
Berry’s Bay property ; stock was
up £37,534; and book-debts
were £13,637 higher, financed
chiefly out of the new share-
P .. .3K. So.
;; " tSSS
Overdraft .. i5i.957 125,986
Creditors, etc. .. 203,869 274,370
wtt L 22,’604
F , &\,0u,d77 £,i,ni,z7S
Shares in’’Subsid. 115’, 756 i69ii43
Due by subsidiary 14,123 n,098
«. 2 2 SSBJ SKU
was J 32 ’ 8 ! 1 b 'BB er - Unless the
"r 0, benefits from the recent
increases in some import-quotas
merchandising activities are
lk^ y to be restricted in 1957.
To . conserve finances for
e^P ansion planned in other sec-
tl . ons tbe business the interim
dlv - tbis term bas been dropped
to 5 P- c - p.c. last year).
Change the £1 ords., ex-
div., are at 335. 6d. (a year ago,
with a new issue in the offing, the
price was 41s. 6d.). On a reduced
30 p.c div. Basis the yield is 6 p ; ,c.
Net tangible asset cover for the
scrip is 375. 9d., and for the
tightly-held prefs., £3B 14s. sd.
Umenite
HTHE establishment of a large
■*- Australian titanium-pigment
industry, to use Westralian
ilmenite, is suggested by the
Bureau of Mineral Resources as
a preferable alternative to the
export of ilmenite in its raw
state.
On the basis of known reserves
the bureau also considers that
ilmenite may eventually be pre-
ferred to rutile as raw material
for a “long-term” metal industry
of the size envisaged by some
metal-producers.
Recent experiments carried
out by the C.5.1.R.0. indicate
that high-grade titanium-oxide
can be produced at a cost com-
parable with that involved in the
use of naturally-occurring rutile,
so that the question of continuity
of supply could be a deciding
factor. However, it seems cer-
tain that at least several years
will pass before any “swing” to
either oxide is established as a
definite “preference,” even if the
bureau’s report has already
tended to give to ilmenite scrip
some of the “glamor” it earlier
took from rutile stocks.
Both Cable (1956) Ltd., and
Western Titanium! N.L., are at
present producing ilmenite in the
wSJiL OiL
. ’ . W ork leases in the
’’ a Y aiso w
same area>
Woodside (Lakes Entrance)
/T . . ,
W° 0 Tc 0 NLhL dS
The Woodside No. 2 hole was
taken to 8862 ft., but failed to
reach the base of the Jurassic
formation. Tests showed no
evidence of flow-oil.
Funds in hand (estimated last
November at £150,000) are
stated to be adequate to finance
the proposed programme of
scout-drilling,
The contribs. last sold at
7d., the f.-p. ss. shares bringing
around .2s.


Women’s Letter
MELBOURNE
Three-hundred guests attended the
Lord Mayor’s reception at the Town
Hall to honor the retiring Chief of Air
Staff, Air-Marshal Sir John McCauley, to
whom tributes were paid by Lord Mayor
Sir Frank Selleck, Mr. R. G. Casey
(representing the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment) and Victoria’s Chief-Secretary
Arthur Rylah (representing the Premier
and Government of Victoria).
Lady Selleck, helping her husband
receive the guests, wore a sage-green,
white-spotted silk suit and a ruby-red
velor cloche. Lady McCauley added to
her grey tailored suit a white satin cap
trimmed with opalescent sequins. A
black ensemble was Mrs. Casey’s choice.
With tier slim black wool frock Mrs.
Rylah wore a cap of turquoise beads to
match her necklace.
Mrs. Alfred Fowler wore one of the
new high-crowned hats, hers of white
felt banded in black to match her black-
and-white ensemble. Mrs. Douglas
Candy (wife of the Air-Vice-Marshal)
wore with a tailored black suit an attrac-
tive high-crowned hat of coral-pink straw
swathed with matching tulle. Other eye-
catching hats were Mrs. lan Connell’s
high and wide storm-grey velvet ; Mrs.
Hugh Syme’s cap of gold lame with its
wide-mesh leaf at one side framing the
face; and Mrs. Leo Curtis’s wide
meringue of black tulle.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the gala-performance of Noel
Coward’s “Relative Values” at the Little
Theatre (it raised £4OO for Prince Henry’s
Hospital) the audience was piped into
the theatre by two kilted Scots. Mrs.
W. K. Burnside (president of the Council
of Auxiliaries/ to the hospital) and her
husband (the hospital’s hon. treasurer)
welcomed the Lady Mayoress, Lady
Selleck, who wore pale-grey silk-taffetas.
A frock of deep-golden-brown Chan-
tilly-lace encrusted with gold sequins was
worn by Mrs. Burnside.
Noted in the audience Lady Coates,
Dr. and Mrs. Hamley Wilson, Dr. and
Mrs. Murray Tallent, Dr. and Mrs. Tom
Crankshaw, Dr. and Mrs. Douglas
Donald, Dr. Bowen Allen and his wife
(her emerald-green Chinese-brocade frock
massed with gold sequins), Mrs. Keith
Hattam (in sheath-frock of deep-cream
guipure-lace), Mr. and Mrs. Eric Lampe,
the Geoff Wilsons and Lady Beaurepaire.
# # V
When Fiona, elder daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. W. G. Main, of East St. Kilda, was
married at Littlejohn Memorial Chapel,
Scotch College, to John Royston, only
son of Mrs. T. E. Moore, of Gardenvale,
and the late Mr. F. R. Moore, she wore
a classical gown of silver-blue self-
patterned French-cotton-satin, the waist-
length ice-blue veil held with a circlet of
the dress-material and finished with a
twist of rhinestones. She carried a trail of
pink gladioli. Mrs. E. M. Jenkins (the
bride’s sister) and Gwenyth Moore (sister
of the ’groom) attended in short frocks of
silver - mauve cotton; they carried
bouquets of pink and mauve hydrangeas
and delphinium. Glen Wotherspoon was
best man. The reception, for 90 guests,
was held at Butleigh Wootton, Glenferrie-
road.
Mrs. Main’s frock of blue-grey
chiffon had a softly-draped bodice; her
close-fitting hat was in blue-grey, and
finished in front with a pink scroll-
ornament outlined in pearls. The bride-
groom’s mother chose a pink frock, a grey
lace coat and a hat in deeper-grey tonings
swathed with feathers.
☆ ☆ ☆
Giro’s was the setting for a luncheon
and hat-parade organised by the Raveloe
auxiliary of the Animal Welfare League.
This was attended by Lady Brooks, who
is patroness of the Lort Smith Memorial
Appeal, and she was welcomed by Dame
Mabel Brookes, who is president of both
the League and the Memorial Appeal.
A slim-fitting fine-woven frock, in mist-
blue was worn by her Excellency with
a small white hat which carried pastel-
toned spring-flowers. Dame Mabel’s
frock was of white-coin-spotted navy
silk ; her cap, of white satin, was trimmed
with posies of gold flowers.
Among the 200 present were Mrs.
David Warlord Mein, Mrs. George
Crowther, Mrs. Louis Nelken, Mrs.
Cyril Trathen, Mrs. Norman Lynch and
her daughter-in-law Mrs. Peter Lynch,
Mrs. Derek Rumbold, Mrs. L. R. Bux-
ton and her daughter Mrs. John Teague,
and Mrs. D. J. S. Mackinnon.
Only close friends and relatives were
at the wedding of Yvonne, elder daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. L. R. Webster, of Tumat
(N.S.W.), and Louis, elder son of Mr.
and Mrs. George Mendes, of East Mel-
bourne. The ceremony was held in the
apartment of the bridegroom s parents
at Cliveden Mansions, and the reception
at Menzies’ Hotel. Yvonne’s frock of
white French organza was appliqued in
a feather-design. A tiny white taffeta
bolero covered the strapless bodice,
which was finished with a waterfall of
white tulle and cluster of lily-of-the-
valley, a posy of which she carried. The
bride’s sister, Mrs. Hedley Ladd, was
matron-of-honor; she wore a frock of
white satin which featured a lampshade-
skirt. The ’groom’s brother Laurence was
best man.
Mrs. Mendes wore royal-blue chiffons,
Mrs. Webster amber-toned satins. Among
the guests were Mrs. Ada Colman, her
son-in-law and daughter {Mr. and Mrs.
Ralph Freedman), Mrs. W. H. Horsfall
and her mother, Mrs. Ladd, Mr. and Mrs.
Jack Mendes, Mr. and Mrs. F. Camp-
bell, Mr. and Mrs. Louis Green, Anne
L’Epagniol, Hedley Ladd and Adrian
Hilford.
Serena Brunton, who will marry Robin
Stansen at St. John’s Church today
(March 20), was guest-of-honor at a
kitchen-cocktail-party given by Eve
Grimwade and Paddy Morse. Serena’s
frock of green-and-silver shot-silk had
knife-pleats, which added fullness to the
skirt. The two young hostesses will be
bridesmaids at the wedding; Eve (at the
home of whose aunt, Mrs. Lionel Grim-
wade, the party was held) chose a printed-
cotton frock in blue and lilac, made on
Princess-lines; Paddy’s choice was a
frock of pale-blue taffeta with a wide V-
neckline, and with the skirt cut on
Princess-lines. Among the 40 guests were
Eve’s sister Rosanne, Janet Cook, Sue
McDonald, Anne Mackinnon, Mary
Jane Gebhardt. Diana Bodycomb, and
her brothers Alastair and David.
SYDNEY
Autumn and Peter Townsend both
arrived in Sydney last week, the former
speeding-up and invigorating people, the
latter stopping them dead in their tracks.
At Warwick Farm on Saturday women
gazed and gazed at le Townsend, forget-
ful of the races, the bookies, the horses
and their own escorts. It reminded one
of the hypnotised staring that took place
during the Royal Tour and, apart from
the impoliteness, indicated how many
people must live their lives at secondhand,
V V #
One of the nice things about Sydney’s
Hyde Park is that it is used so much.
There are few, if any, of those rude “Keep
Off The Grass” notices that spoil so
many public parks, and considering how
much it is used the grass seems to
survive quite well.
The park around the Archibald
Fountain certainly looked very beautiful
on Thursday, when the 25th anniversary
of the presentation of the fountain to
the city by Bulletin founder J. F. Archi-
bald was celebrated. Few people know
that the fountain is a memorial to the
friendly association between the Aus-
tralian and the French peoples, especially
during the First World War. R.S.L.
president W. Yeo, speaking at the cere-
mony, mentioned that every night at the
Menin Gate a French bugler sounds the
Last Post in commemoration of the Aus-
tralian soldiers buried in France.
Present at the ceremony were Lord
Mayor Jensen, French Consul-General
M. de Montousse, French Minister for
the Navy M. Paul Anxionnnaz, and
Madame Anxionnaz, Miss Gladys Archi-
bald (a niece of the late J. F. Archibald),
and French Admiral H. Douget.
☆ ☆ ☆
“The woman who is young and
beautiful will wear her hair short to
draw attention to herself. The woman
not so young and not so beautiful will
wear it long, to draw attention to her
hair.’’ Thus spake M. Audard, member
of the French haute coiffure at the parade
of hair-styles in aid of the Crippled
Children’s Society on Wednesday.
Several women, this Letter included,
thereupon decided that long hair was for
them. Jenny Callaghan, of Mosman, who
was Miss Haute Coiffure for 1957, had
had her hair styled in a short mode and
seemed to have all the qualifications for
it.
V .V. V
There are 80 members of the new
committee for the Mater Hospital Ball,
to be held at the Trocadero on June 12.
Mrs. Tom Bateman is at its head, and the
first function is a parade of hats by
Stella Frankel at Prince’s on April 2.
Some lovely hats, many sporting the
last roses of summer, were to be seen at
the committee-meeting, though beautiful
Mrs. D. Giblin, who is arranging for the
models at the parade, was hatless. Noted
particularly Mrs. Bob Mclnerney’s white
pique Bartok with its enormous pink
spots, and Mrs. Peter Willis’s white
platter-beret with its navy band.
Pretty and talented Nina Cooke stars
in the operetta success at the Empire
Theatre, “Land of Smiles.” An American
(though you could never tell it from her
accent), Nina came to Australia to star
in "Song of Norway” opposite Charles
Doming, to whom she is now married.
Their baby boy, now 12 weeks old, had
just made his bow to the world when his
mother started learning her part (Lisa)
in Lehar’s operetta, and within a matter
of days she had started rehearsals. Nina
says she then often used to bring her babe
to the Empire, but found it didn’t work
out . "I’m afraid he hasn’t his father’s
love of the theatre,” she comments.
Charles Doming is business-manager for
the Tivoli Circuit, and produced "Land
of Smiles” in his spare time. Photo by
Phil Ward.
St. Patrick’s Day, besides being
celebrated by the usual concert, sports,
etc., this year called-up another of the
Aisling Society’s happy gatherings.
President James Meagher, with secretary
Mary Hegarty, welcomed 82 guests to the
buffet-dinner at Alexis, Kensington, and
Mr. Meagher later gave a talk on “The
Two St. Patricks,”
It was a singing evening, items being
given by Mary Blake, Mary Gibbs, Mrs.
G. W. Warnecke, the guest-of-honor (who
with her husband leaves us shortly to live
in Dublin), Mrs. Pat Longstaffe, and
Mrs. P. F. Baulman, to whose piano-
accompaniment everyone sang old tradi-
tional Irish songs. The clergy also made
a contribution, Father F. X. O’Brien, S.J.,
and Father D. Furlong with songs, and
Father McNally with his inimitable
explanations and remarks about things
generally.
☆ ☆ Twf
Sydney is to have a masked-ball this
year, the Elizabethan Theatre Masque on
September 17 at the Trocadero. Prizes,
of course, will be given for the most
beautiful and the most original masks,
but there will also be a prize for the best-
dressed man present. This ought to bring
out the embroidered waistcoats and the
frilled-linen shirts.
V & & ■
Two opening-nights on Wednesday
nearly caused symptoms of split-person-
ality in really earnest first-nighters last
week. Those who chose “The Beggar’s
Opera” at the Elizabethan Theatre were
clad in gala-garments, mostly of the
ballerina type, though wearing the full-
length evening-gown were Mrs. Walter
Bunning, in a froth of silver-grey nylon-
net (she is taking part, by the way, in the
University Students’ revue “Lower
Education” scheduled for March 28), and
Mrs. A. H. Chartres, in an emerald-green
sheath embroidered with cream opalescent
sequins.
Those who went to the Tivoli were
rewarded by seeing that vital personality
Julia ; she and her brother Nicolas were
the only dancers to perform for Princess
Grace and Prince Rainier on the evening
before their wedding. Julia has shown
herself a first-class compere for fashion-
shows. She brought the house down (and
nearly bought the house out!) when she
kept purchasing the things she was
describing at a D.J.’s show last week
(“The place was full with woman,” she
said in describing it). She will also com-
pere the hat-show in aid of the Mater on
April 2.
# #
Prize-winning frocks of the Australian
Wool Bureau will be seen at the
afternoon-tea parades, which began at
Anthony Hordern’s on March 18 and
will continue till March 22. These parades
will coincide with the opening of
Anthony Hordern’s new restaurant, the
Aranda Room, the decor of which is in
aborigine-motif, with pastel-toned walls
and ceiling and indirect lighting.
Aboriginal ceiling-to*floor drapes repeat
the native-motif cleverly designed by
artist Mertpn Moore for the menu-cards.
Namatjira prints, masses of exotic
indoor-plants and fresh flowers complete
this picture.
☆ ☆ ☆
The return of Princess Gourielli to Aus-
tralia after 50 years is not quite a case of
local girl makes good, for the Princess,
who is world-known as Helena Ruben-
stein, head of the cosmetic firm, is Polish
by birth. But it was- in Melbourne at
the turn of the century that she began her
career as a businesswoman. Then 18
years of age, she noted that the com-
plexions of the wealthy squatters’ wives
who came to the city left room for
improvement, so she gave samples to a
few of a simple herb-and-oil lotion which
she had brought from Poland. That was
the beginning of a business which has
spread throughout the world. Now she
owns one of the greatest private art-
collections in history, and she has an art-
gallery in her New York triplex which
Cecil Beaton recently redecorated.
☆ ☆ ☆
Ballet-lovers are counting the days
till May, when they’ll be able to see two
of the world’s greatest ballet stars, Dame
Margot Fonteyn and Michael Soames.
They will appear at the Empire under
J. C. Williamson management, and will
be accompanied by two other top Sadler’s
Wells principals. New Zealander Rowena
Jackson and Brian Ashbridge.
For their two-week season here they
will dance with the Borovansky Company,
at present rehearsing in Melbourne. The
company’s extended seasons in the vari-
ous capital cities will include the full-
length “Swan Lake,” “Sleeping Beauty”
and “Nutcracker Suite,” in addition to
shorter and possibly other full-length
ballets. Many of the stars who delighted
Australian and New Zealand audiences
during the last Borovansky seasons will
rejoin the company.
An interesting fashion-note connected
with ballet is that the traditional
ballerina-skirt of soft diaphanous
material, with its tiny bodice and off-
shoulder line, has retained its popularity
because of the success of a famous prima-
ballerina, Tagliono, in 1832. For this was
the evening-dress of the period, and she
wore it in the ballet “La Sylphide,” a fan-
tasy in which a wood-nymph enchants a
Highlander. Many years later for the
ballet “Les Sylphides” (at first called
“Chopiniana”) the same type of dress was
used, and so set the style for the typical
“ballerina” of today.


HOUSE for SALE
Lifetime investment. Beautiful
Water-frontage Home Unit, (unfur-
nished). best part Darling Point,
Sydney. Four bedrooms, 2 reception,
2 bathrooms, large kitchen, circular
front porch and side verandah.
Tennis court and boatshed. £lO.OOO.
Reply C/o Box 203, Bulletin, Sydney.
Established 1808
Contractor! to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
3ACKSOI**
OSUMJVAK
nxmx
vm
TRADE
MAWR
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers,
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIB STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“IACKSUL," BRISBANE
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
JTO RAYMOND WARRENDER late of
Holdsworthy in the State of New South
Wales—TAKE NOTICE that EDGAR
WALTER THOMAS COOK has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 29 of 1957 on
tlie grounds of your adultery with
ELIZABETH THOMPSON COOK the re-
spondent in the divorce suit If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 31st day of May
1957 anil obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. ADRIAN
TWIGG & CO., Solicitors, of 160 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
CONSERVE ALL YOU CAN IN A
LYSAGHT
HEAVY GAUGE
Wm# ■ '
53:
Four standard sizes range
from 25,000 to 100,000
gallons capacity
MATERIAL: Heavy gauge 5/5" corrugated galvanized
sheets, pre-drilled and curved. Waterproof jointing
material: bolts, nuts, washers and tools. Outlet fitting,
drilled and threaded to suit every pipe size up to 6".
Bolted construction facilitates replacement of sheets with-
out dismantling tank.
Lysaght Tanks are designed
to be erected on concrete
bases (provided by the pur-
chaser). Details of recom-
mended bases, using the
cement penetrant method of
construction, are available
on request.
Special materials for cement
penetrated concrete base are
available as optional extras.
Cement, sand and aggregate
are provided by the purchaser.
USES:
• Water conservation
• Irrigation head tan!
• Industrial water
storage
• Swimming pools
• Town water supply
• Fire fighting
Overflow unit available
at slight extra cost
PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
Nominal Capacity
25,000 gallons
50,000 gallons
75,000 gallons
100,000 gallons
Diameter
23ft. lOin.
33ft. sin.
40ft. 7in.
45ft. 9in.
Height
!Oft. 4in.
10ft. 4in.
I Oft. 4in.
10ft. 4in.
Weight
II tons
2\ tons
2| tons
3£ tons
Price
£3Ol
£425
£533
£604
Prices c.i.f. capital cities available on
10,000-Gallon Water Tanks (tall or squat) an
10.000-GALLON WATER TANK PRICES F.O.
application
» available also
R. NEWCASTLE
14ft. 4in. dia., 10ft. 7in. high
Basic unit, £ll7
19ft. lin. dia., 6ft. sin. high
Basic unit, £93
Write tor further information and Agents' Names to:
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, or John Lysaght (Australia! Pty. Ltd. in
a JJ Capital Cities.
LCI3 AX/56
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“The Beggar’s Opera”
To the London of 1728, fed on
convention-bound Italian opera,
John Gay’s work—which seems
rather less an opera than an
ebullient comedy-farce spiced
with some dramatic touches —
must have come as an invigorat-
ing breeze. And the production
by James Mills at Sydney’s
Elizabethan Theatre had the
same quality of bracing fresh-
ness.
Strictly, it is a lyrical drama,
but Mills rightly stressed its
manifold comic aspects. As an
opera, it is entirely “different.”
Here are no aristos, no mincing
fops, no finely-apparelled ladies
holding court in their salons ;
practically every male character
is a scurrilous rogue, with the
highwayman McHeath’s gang of
thieves, pickpockets and fences
dominating the proceedings, and
with a fine collection of trollops
of the taverns to carry the
feminine banner.
The piece got away to, a crack-
ing start with some pungent
domestic comedy in the Peachum
family— Pere, Mere and fils —
mostly over the filly’s expressed
determination to marry the high-
wayman, the choice of husband
being less a cause for complaint
by Mrs. Peachum than what she
regarded as the morally delin-
quent state of marriage—an
institution which she herself had
scorned. AH this was dispensed
with great verve by John Young,
Wilma Whitney and Jennifer
Eddy. The singing of the trio,
in solos and concerted numbers,
was excellent.
Things were lively from there
on, right up to the betrayal of
McHeath to the law-officers and
his final reprieve. The chorus-
work was adequate if not out-
standing, with enough weight for
the light music.
John Shaw has the physique
and voice for an authoritative
McHeath, but the essence of the
character —a reckless, swash-
buckling pistol-man of the roads
and an irresistible lover —eluded
him. Nor did his booming
baritone get the most out of
the songs allotted him.
John Huson’s Mr. Lockit,
Bettina Benfield’s Lucy Lockit,
and Ereach Riley’s ratlike Filch
were good characterisations.
The bewigged and mob-capped
orchestra, comprising five strings,
two woodwinds and a harpsi-
chord and presided over by
Master Eric Clapham, did
reasonable justice to a score
which, though undistinguished,
falls pleasantly enough on the
ear.
€« * <*
Julius Katchen
At the opening Sydney concert
of his second Australian tour for
the A.B.C. American pianist
Julius Katchen geared dynamic
playing to dazzling technique in
a programme which gave him
plenty of scope for both.
He began with Bach’s “Con-
certo in the Italian Style”—
expansive in structure and of
great melodic and rhythmic
vitality. An almost Handelian
joyousness was extracted from
the opening allegro and the
closing presto, and the interven-
ing andante was a beautifully
controlled flow of lyricism.
Schubert’s spacious
“Wanderer” Fantasia, with its
exploitation of practically every
resource of the keyboard, was
notable for the impact of a keen
musical mind on the lovely set
of variations on the famous song
which comprises the slow
section. The building-up of
tonal masses in the recesses of
the bass in the presto and finale
were instinct with drama.
The other big work was the
Brahms “Variations on a Theme
by Paganini,” and it was in this
that the pianist bent the full
force of his interpretative
maturity and his technical
mastery. The difficult mechanics
which stud every page seemed
not to exist, and the manifold
variety of moods which the
composer built on this tran-
scribed violin-caprice were
faithfully captured.
Mendelssohn’s “Andante and
Rondo Capriccioso” had a full
quota of the fairylike charm
which is its essence. Chopin’s
“Andante Spianota and Polonaise
Brillante, Op. 22” was, in the first
part, all feminine persuasion—
the most placid of night-pieces.
Then, with the Polonaise,
Katchen showed the masculine
side of Chopin, with the savage
urgency, pounding rhythms and
martial vigor played-up to the
limit.
❖ ❖ &
Beethoven Festival
Beethoven is the oddest of
composers to be celebrated in
one of the series of shirt-sleeves
concerts, the novelty of which
makes them popular in the
steamiest of Brisbane summers.
Beethoven’s music generates far
too much heat of its own for
comfort, and even the Seventh
Symphony, which has no soul-
searing message or stormy
passions, left the audience pant-
ing a little in time with the weary
orchestra.
The programmes of this
festival did no justice to Beet-
hoven in their failure to go
beyond the well-tried successes.
There was no “Missa Solemnis”
nor even a Ninth Symphony,
surely the keystone of any Beet-
hoven Festival. Yet within its
limits the performances gave an
essentially accurate picture of the
composer, sturdy and unsenti-
mental.
Conductor James Robertson —
from Sadler’s Wells by way of
New v Zealand, where he runs the
National Orchestra has the
seasoned opera-conductor’s habit
of keeping the music going, and
rarely has any Beethoven been
heard locally with so few
attempts to dwell lovingly and
long over this passage in the
music or that. The result was a
hard-hitting, craggy Beethoven
portrait, showing up well in the
Third, Fifth and Seventh
Symphonies and in the
“Leonora” Overtures (all of
them). But the lyrical Fourth
Symphony had little of the
springy gracefulness it needs in
performance.
The festival concertos were a
different matter. Ricardo Odno-
posoff took a gentle, graceful
view of the Violin Concerto, and
the conductor co-operated faith-
fully. This was the most relaxed
playing of the concerts and it
demonstrated beautifully a more
serene if, at the same time, a
more long-winded Beethoven.
Leonard Hungerford played
three of the piano concertos. An
Australian who has been in New
York since 1945, he has the clean
and forceful style that marks the
best young American pianists.
The First, Third and Fourth
Concertos gave him a variety of
moods to reflect, missing only
the heroic note of the
“Emperor.” Everywhere his
playing was illuminating and
never once perfunctory in
deference to heat that must have
made even the keyboard slippery.
D. J. M.
* $
“Olympic Follies”
Sydney Tiv.’s current offering,
rather quieter than usual, is
notable particularly for the
amiable, unhurried humor of
Richard Hearne, particularly in
a ragshop sequence with an
insistent customer and a bolt of
cloth; for Bob Bromley and
his marionettes, especially the
one on the flying-trapeze; the
acrobatics of the Lane Brothers ;
and Frank Ross, the one-man
juke-box, whose impersonation
of Harry James’s trumpet would
make the Comedy Harmonists
sit up and listen —and also,
probably, Harry James.
Julia, who dances and sings
and can apparently scratch the
middle of her back with her foot,
is the starred songandance
attraction ; Billy Banks offers a
lively patter and curious rendi-
tions of “Swing Low, Sweet
Chariot” and “All God’s Chillun
Got Shoes” ; and the Tiv. love-
lies, bless ’em, are as lovely as
they ever were.
Artbursts
“Paintings”
Who, in the generation after
Eliot, first entitled his poem
simply “Poem,” so that all young
poets instantly had to copy
him?
It-never really helped, and it
always sounded a bit pretentious;
and one notes with considerable
alarm that John Passmore has
entitled his painting in the “Back
Room vShow” at Sydney Mac-
quarie Galleries, with similarly
inspired simplicity, “Painting.”
“Painting’ is, however, quite a
painting. It is a swish of wind,
waves, birds, people and bright
color in his familiar beach-scene
style, and if it does not say any-
thing particularly articulate, it
certainly does swish.
Discarding realism for symbol
and showing his TV-headed
Kelly Gang in attitudes of iron
disaster, Sidney Nolan’s “Aftet
Glenrowan, Siege No. 2” might
also be regarded as a “Painting”
rather than a painting; and it,
too, is effective, in its stage-
design style.
Justin O’Brien’s “Landscape”
is recognisably a landscape;
warm and distinctive.
Les Such
The emergence of Les Such,
whose joke-blocks will be well-
known to all Bulletin readers,
as a serious watercolorist is a
phenomenon to be noted with all
proper joy, welcome, trepidation,
etc. His paintings are hanging
(for sale to the public) at the
N. S. Wales Journalists’ Club,
Sydney.
Mr. Such paints nudes in surf-
boats, nudes in canoes, nudes up
a gumtree (which a happy
woodsman is felling), nudes in
coral caverns, nudes watching
knights in armor, nudes at a
music-hall, nudes at the mirror
... in short, nudes. With, one
should add, a few canecutters
and the like.
The two watercolors which
stand out are “Jungle Queen”
and “Butterfly”: and here is a
point for Mr. Such to ponder—
both are attractive little paint-
ings, and both are exotics. The
jungle queen comes from New
Guinea; the butterfly is Japan-
ese. It seems that when he is
imagining far-off scenes and
people the artist thinks in terms
of art: color, decoration,
poetry. His problem in the other
paintings, if he wants to hang
them in halls more august than
the Journalists’ Club, is to stop
thinking in terms of the joke-
block.
♦ #
At the Gallery
Purchases and acquisitions for
1956 are on show at the
N. S. Wales National Gallery.
They include “Welsh Moun-
tains,” an oil-painting by
Graham Sutherland, Henry
Moore’s tin-hat, and 24
aboriginal paintings collected by
the American-Australian expedi-
tion to Arnhem Land in 1948 and
presented by the Commonwealth
Government.
$ #
Reshid Bey’s annual array of
portraits, still-life and landscape
at Melbourne Athenseum is this
year diversified with records,
mainly landscape, of a European
tour in which the artist took
France, England, Scotland, and
Spain in his stride. “Fishing
Boats, Planes, Costa Brava,” is
a nice sketch, and there is a
limpid quality about “The Pool
of London” and “Outside the
Prado, Madrid.” The Prado, of
course, is the Mecca of every
artist, since it contains a magni-
ficent collection of Velasquez
portraits. There are some signs
that Reshid Bey has been
influenced by the Spanish
painter in some of his own
portraits. He gets more
luminosity into his portrait “Mrs.
Michael Niall” than he does into
the others. “The Clown” is
striking.
Talkies
“The Bespoke Overcoat” (Syd-
ney Paris): An exquisite half-
hour account of a poor, elderly
Jew who is sacked by a flint-
hearted boss in mid-winter, and
who, after dying, comes back
to thank his kind-hearted tailor-
friend who offered him a warm
overcoat, and to tweak the
pocket of his erstwhile boss. The
human little story is richly acted
by David Kossoff and Alfie Bass.
“Julie” (Sydney St. James):
Suspense-thriller, with Doris
Day as a terrified newly-wed
who discovers that her husband
is a psychopathic murderer. Her
efforts to escape culminate in a
sequence in an airliner, which
should bring anyone’s hair to
the perpendicular.


The Black Widow
By NANCY CATO
Toby (“Jug”) jenkins
rolled the Widow out into
the sunlight and ran his
hand lovingly over her
sleek lines. His car had always
been called the Black Widow,
from the days when hfc first
began to race it, long before he
was married; but his wife
couldn’t help feeling that the
name was ominous. Something
happy-sounding, like the Blue
Bird, now . . .
She looked out the kitchen-
window with an expression as
near to spite as could be
registered on her soft young
face. She hated the car ; she was
jealous of the time and money
he spent on it, and even the way
he looked at it... It was as bad
as a mistress, almost. And as
long as he owned it he would
go on risking his life.
She had scarcely seen him for
the past fortnight. He’d been
pulling*the engine down, then
putting it together again, and out
testing up and down the Mad
Mile, then tuning, then testing
again; visiting other stables
where other sleek cars were
being groomed for the big race
next weekend ; and . arguing
interminably about the advan-
tages of torsion-bars and hot
camshafts and other things that
were mysteries to her.
As usual, she was beginning
to feel thoroughly fed-up
towards the end of the second
week, and even dared to inflict
her superfluous feminine pres-
ence on the earnest coterie
arguing out in the garage.
“ that’s all very well, Jug,
but he’ll go through the S-bend
faster than you in the little
Cooper, and even if you keep
catching him on the
straight”
“He’ll blow up. He always
does.” Jug was calm and con-
temptuous. His large Air Force
moustache quivered with con-
tempt for the little Cooper. His
blue eyes were unconcerned.
“Now, if you were to fit a
second blower”
“Do you mind if I interrupt
this /us-cinating conversation?”
said Lucinda sweetly (her figure,
which made up in shapeliness
what it lacked in subtlety, was
usually enough to divert any
group of men, and she was tired
of being ignored), “to ask if you
boys intend to talk all night
without eating?”
“Your dinner,” she said
pointedly to Toby, “has been in
the oven for nearly an hour.
You others had better come in
too, but I warn you I’ve only
got eggs.”
TiyHEN they had gone, having
argued through dinner and
four bottles of beer, and then
gone out to the shed to argue
some more, she turned on him.
She was sick with fear every
time he raced, and at present she
had an extra reason for feeling
nervous. Tension and lack of
sleep, for he rarely came in
before midnight, had put an
edge on her temper.
“Really, Toby!” She only
called him by his right name
when she was angry; he had
been “Jug” ever since he was at
school, because of the size of his
ears. “Do you have to spend
every night, and all the week-
end with that car? Why don't
von bring it in and sleep with
it?”
He looked thoughtfully over
her head. “Door’s too narrow,”
he said.
She wasn’t sure if she was
going to laugh or cry, but what
came from her mouth turned out
to be a laugh, with a note of
hysteria in it.
“Though I must admit you’ve
got nice lines, too,” he said. “No-
one would want to kick you out
of bed.” He gathered her in his
arms and rested his chin on top
of her golden head. “Just the
right height,” he murmured.
Tell you what, darling; after
this race is over we’ll go away
for a holiday, just you and I.”
Without the Black —without
that beastly car?”
For she had been on “holiday”-
trips with him before, wander-
ing disconsolately about strange
towns while Toby and a group
of the faithful pored over the
Widow’s engine, polishing it
until it shone, and talked—-how
they talked! —about differentials
and front-suspensions and inlet-
valves.
‘Yes, dear. Just the two of
us.”
“Three of us, nearly,” she
murmured into his rather grimy,
oil-stained shirt. “You forgot
about Junior.”
“So I did. Hope he makes a
good racing-driver.”
“I hope it’s a girl,” she said
with intensity, “and that she
never drives over forty miles an
hour. Jug, don’t you think you
ought to give it up, after —after
the baby is born? It’s not as
though you had no responsi-
bilities, and”
“Oh, rot, darling. I’m much
safer on the race-circuit than on
a public road with a lot of fools
going both ways.”
She said no more, but she was
not in the least convinced.
the morning of the car-
races the Widow was
unloaded from the trailer with
her black duco gleaming in the
sun, her chromiumed exhaust-
pipes reflecting the blue sky, and
even her aluminium brake-
drums shining. When she was
started-up her engine roared
sweetly in tune.
Lucinda was all in white, with
a blue scarf about her throat.
Her condition was not showing
yet, but her usual morning feel-
ing of sickness came on, made
worse by apprehension. Her
face was pale under its golden
tan, and there were shadows
about her eyes.
Jug, in white overalls that had
been immaculate but were
already lovingly streaked with
oil from the car, strode across
the pit-area on his long legs,
fastening on his helmet. When
he had pulled on the goggles he
would have been unrecognis-
able but for his luxuriant dark
moustache, and the white-
toothed grin he flashed at
Lucinda as he climbed into his
seat.
Lucinda patted the car, carried
away by the general enthusiasm
into a feeling almost of pride
and affection for the thing. It
certainly looked a thoroughbred
this morning. The two
mechanics and several well-
wishers pushed it until it started
and went out on the circuit for
the practice-run.
“He’s lapping at two-point-
thirty-five!” cried Jim, Toby’s
timekeeper, holding a stop-
watch in his hand, his voice
high with excitement. “He got
her going beautifully, eh, Lucy?”
Lucinda smiled faintly. If
accidents happen, it is usually in
practice-runs, Toby had said.
She couldn’t relax until he came
in.
The shattering roar of other
cars revving their engines filled
the air, and more and more
helmeted heads above stream-
lined car-bodies flashed past the
pits. Red, blue, yellow, green,
white; glistening with
chromium, screaming with
power, they came through the
tricky S-bend and flattened-out
down the straight. The Widow
was the only black car, and with
its white number-two could be
picked out easily until lost on
the far side of the circuit where
a small hillock hid the Cannery
Corner from sight.
Lucinda scarcely saw the
other cars, except as a back-
ground of sound and color to the
steady revolving of the black.
When at last it came back to the
pits, she hovered on the edge of
the admiring crowd that had
gathered as Jug, pulling the
goggles down below his chin,
sat and grinned happily at his
mechanic.
“She’s going like a bomb! ” he
said.
first race was for sports-
cars, and Lucinda was able
to enjoy this. The Widow
needed nothing more done to
her. Jug stood to watch the
race with Lucinda. She stood on
a bumper-bar and rested her
hand on his shoulder, feeling the
strength and solidity of him
through the white overalls.
She kissed him quickly as he
went to get in the car for his
first race. “Good luck, darling,”
she said aloud, and “Oh, be care-
ful!” under her breath. She
got a box from the trailer and
stood on it near the fence that
divided the pit-area from the
public.
Looking round as she heard
the fruity roar of the Black
Widow’s engine starting up, she
stared at one of the group of
men helping to push. She
couldn’t see his face, but there
was something strangely repul-
sive about the back of his head.
It was small and bony, above
an abnormally long neck.
The car stalled and started
again, and as he straightened
she looked at the stranger’s
queer, lank figure, clad in a
badly-fitting grey suit. He looked
about a foot taller than any of
the other men, yet when she
turned to look for him again
after she’d watched the Widow
on the track, he was not to be
seen.
It was a scratch race, and Jug
got an excellent start. It was
much safer for him to be well
out in front, and not have to do
a lot of passing to get there. Now
he was streaking out from among
the bunch of cars and down the
straight.
He was still holding his lead
at the end of the first lap, but
when they came round the
second time the little red Cooper
was creeping up on him.
On the third lap the Cooper
was well out in front, with Jug
battling for second place with
an Alfa. Lucinda knew what
that meant; Jug had had a
“moment” somewhere on the
far side of the course—he had
spun, perhaps, or gone into the
straw-bales, giving the Cooper
time to get past and establish
a lead.
Now he was all-out to recover
his lost position. She could
sense the tautness of his frame
as he willed the car forward, and
saw how he left his braking till
the last possible moment before
the corners. As he came through
the S-bend and flattened-out
down the straight for the sixth
time she saw his strong, sure
hands on the wheel as he
repassed the Cooper and shot out
in front.
Men’s hands ; she thought of
them guiding cars and ships and
planes all over the world,
handling the healing knife and
the murderous bayonet . . . She
suddenly felt sick, and getting
down from the box, sat on it.
This was the last lap, and in
two minutes he would be safe.
The clerk of the course was
moving out now with the
chequered-flag. Then the Black
Widow went streaming past,
with a high-pitched note like
tearing silk. It was followed
closely by the Cooper and the
Blue Alfa, with the rest strung
cut behind.
“TAARLING,” said Lucinda as
A-'they were having lunch,
sitting on the ground in the
shade of the trailer, “who’s that
queer thin bloke who was hover-
ing round and helping to push
you out? He gives me the
creeps.”
“Dunno,” said Jug. “All
sorts of queer types gather
round. I never notice ’em. How
the dickens they get into the
pits without a pass is what beats
me.”
“But you must have noticed
this one. He looks about seven
feet tall, with a little bony head
and skinny arms and neck —
horrible! ”
“I didn’t see the bloke. Give
us another chicken-sandwich,
will you, honey?”
After lunch she felt rather sick
again, and went and sat in the
car with which they towed the
trailer. The Widow was oiling-
up her plugs badly, and wouldn’t,
said Jug, have lasted another
two laps. Also a wheel needed
changing. He went off to prepare
for the next race. But though
the mechanics worked franti-
cally, they were not ready in
time, and the black car was
scratched.
Then there came another
sports-car race and a production-
car event. Lucinda had a little
doze in the car. The races didn’t
interest her unless Jug was
driving. She woke with a start
to hear the announcer’s voice
over the amplifying-system,
hollow and resonant:
“Event Number Six. Will
competitors please bring their
cars to the starting-line for the
Thirty-mile Handicap?”
She had been dreaming, some
unpleasant dream which eluded
her —yes, she remembered it
now; she had been dreaming
that she walked up to the thin
man with the queer head, and
when he turned towards her he
had no face, only a bony skull,
like one of the figures in Hol-
bein’s “Dance of Death.”
There was a crowd about
Jug’s car, over near the entrance
to the circuit. He would be off
in a moment, and she hadn’t
wished him luck. She began to
climb out of the car, still heavy
with sleep, and then stopped.
That queer thin man was
standing beside Jug, she could
see his head over the crowd,
which fell back as Jug strode to
the side of the car, climbed in,
and adjusted his goggles. She
watched the thin man drop a
hand on his shoulder for a
moment, before going to the
back to push with the mechanics.
The engine started with a
shattering roar.
TUG held up his hand, and
one of the mechanics bent
close to his mouth as he shouted
something. He cupped his hands
to shout a reply, and Jug
loosened the helmet from one
ear and leant towards him, then
nodded. As Lucinda began to
HIS COUNTRY
Only when the edges of the day appear,
That time of breaking in the silver gums,
Ash in the creek, thin falling of the dew,
Stillness, the brazier time-rusted, sums
Unriddled, years of longing in the bark,
Etched with those lovers, one pierced heart, the year
Written when they had finished with the dark,
Only that time made bright his mind, emboldened
Hope in the shallow ribs, set love to roost,
Laid with each falling beam the ghosts of Europe,
Vaults sonorous with war; slackened and loosed
Tremendous oceans in the thin, sharp trees,
And on his bared limbs by the fishing-pond
Laid scales of plenty with a temperate breeze.
Yet still he longed. On the pale sand inscribed
Images of Danzig and the swarming cobbles,
Sweet linen, bed at snowfall, burning maples,
Mountains hooking the sky; but flesh and troubles
Fatten ; the coffers brim, the heart empties,
And he must sleep . . . so morning half-imbibed
Sprang and consoled for the dead centuries.
He’s touched the land. His children move along
Into its years of thunder; vast and bare
Splintered with white trees, choked with rust and sand,
Silent and inaccessible its stare,
Australia waits, and the bright challenge burns;
Only when looking back he is not strong,
Only ahead the famished country yearns.
N.S.W.
CHARLES HIGHAM.


* vV-loy/}!',
m
<3
•vS%r
vV.v'-V';
5
ii l '
;-'i;-V
C : > .v.
*V*'?'•*- ?>/ ;V;.
1• - ' U'.'-Vo u'-/ v ' - "J' t »'
Vt-
’-Tr
,V«\
c
8.0.A.C. PROUDLY INTRODUCES THE
m
JET-PROP AIRLINER
Now operating 3 times weekly Sydney London
Fastest, smoothest, most spacious jet-prop airliner in the world
Meet the “Whispering Giant” Britannia—now in ser-
vice between Sydney and London ! Its very size is
enough to astonish you—yet it’s so smooth in flight at
nearly 6 miles a minute, you’ll find it hard to believe
you’re moving at all. The standard of comfort is
revolutionary ; the spaciousness of the cabins a miracle
of planning; the service beyond comparison. The
8.0.A.C. Britannia is equipped with the latest radar
for fair-weather flying all the way. At your journey's
end you are as fresh as when you first stepped aboard
. . . and you reach your destination hours sooner !
De-luxe First-class services (fully reclining “Slum-
berettes”) and low fare Tourist service by Britannia on
the Kangaroo Route are additional to “Connoisseur’*
and Tourist Services operated by Qantas Super-G
Constellations. The Britannia also operates on the
Johannesburg-London service and will soon fly or;
other 8.0.A.C. world routes.
See your Travel Agent for trip-
planning help—no charge.
Information and bookings from all
leading Travel Agents and Santas
Empire Airways Limited (8.0.A.C.
General Agents for Australia).
All over the world
V
mmi
takes good care of you
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
A69/AU
run, he let in the clutch and
drove out to the starting-line
on the course, where she could
not follow.
It seemed an agonisingly long
time before his handicap-time
came round. Car after car
roared away and still he sat
rhythmically revving the engine,
apparently calm and relaxed but
really, she knew, with butterflies
crawling in his stomach.
She stood watching with her
fingers crossed, wishing a good
start for him.
Once he was out there “dicing”
he’d be all right, cool and daring,
judging within a split-second how
late it was safe to leave his
braking, how much room there
was to get between two cars—
for you could pass anywhere
on the race-track, on the left or
in the middle or away out in the
dirt; the thing was to get
through.
At last he got away—not a
good start; his wheels spun
uselessly for a second, leaving a
stain of melted rubber on the
bitumen. The three-minute men
were already coming round after
their first lap, and he shot out
amongst them, seeming to leave
the slower cars standing still.
As Jim and the others walked
back to the pits, Lucinda went
up to them. The thin man had
again disappeared.
“We got her going all right
again,” said Jim cheerfully.
“He’s got this one in the bag.
The Cooper’s sure to blow-up.”
“Jim, who’s that queer-looking
thin chap who’s been hanging
round Jug’s car? I don’t like
the look of him.”
“Thin chap? I didn’t see any
thin chap. It certainly wasn’t
me,” said Jim, looking down at
the solid form that bulged
beneath his overalls.
“But you must have seen him
just now, before Jug started.
He’s about seven feet high, and
horribly bony.”
“I guess I was too worked-up
over the car to notice. You look
a bit pale, old girl.”
“I’m worried, Jim. I feel
something dreadful’s going to
happen.”
“What rot! Jug’s too good a
driver to pile-up, and the car’s
going perfectly.”
“Stay with me, Jim!”
“Sure.” He looked at her
quickly, his round, red face
amused and kind. Women got
some queer ideas, especially at
certain times. He wouldn’t be
surprised ...
He went to get the box from
the trailer, and helped her up
on it.
T IMIT-MEN were now
threading through the ruck
to the front, but cars were strung
out all round the course and it
was hard to tell who had lapped
whom.
The Cooper, which had taken
the lead, didn’t blow-up, but it
“Quid in there! Everybody's trying to sleep."
came in to the pits at about the
eighth lap, popping and bang-
ing, and three minutes were lost
before it was circulating again.
Jug’s car wasn’t going at its
best, and the Alfa was pressing
it closely.
Jim gnawed at his fingers and
swore softly.
“I’d rather the Alfa was in
front,” he muttered, as Jug
swung dangerously at a corner
and quickly corrected the slide.
“Why, Jim? Isn’t he safer out
in front?”
“Jug’s got to set the pace, and
he’s pushing her too hard. Be
careful, man! Don’t let him
rattle you. That’s what he’s
trying to do, sitting on your tail
like that .. . God! Who’s that,
I wonder?” /
But Lucinda was wordless,
clinging white-faced to his
shoulder, too weak with shock
to get off the box. Away in the
far corner of the circuit a cloud
of dust had risen; a few seconds
later there rose beside it a
column of smoke.
“Hullo!” the announcer was
saying in a calm, unhurried
voice. “There seems to have
been a spot of bother over on
Cannery Corner. Yes. Well,
we’ll let you know what’s
happened when we know a little
more . . . Now Smith’s Ford
Special is completing the ninth
lap, while”-
The scream of the ambulance-
siren sounded above v his words.
People could be seen running in
the distance, towards the column
of smoke. The cars flashed past,
while Lucinda strained her eyes
until they felt as if they would <
burst from their sockets, look-
ing for the black car and the
black helmet coming round the ;
far side of the course. The <
smaller cars that were being ;
lapped more than once came 5
past; then, out of the dust,
appeared the Smith Special again.
The Black Widow and the blue
Alfa were missing. <
“ Is there a doctor on the t
course?” . 1
The announcer’s voice, with a t
note of urgency overcoming its i
equal tones, broke through the (
thundering in her ears. She j
opened her eyes to find that Jim
was laying her gently on the
ground. She struggled upright. :
“ if there is a doctor on the ,
course, would he please go at
once to the ambulance-tent on ,
the north-east corner.”
“Jim... Jim!” Her lips were j
trembling. . , . j
“Take it easy, old girl. 111 get
the car. It’s not as bad as you
think. I’ll take you round
straight away.”
Lucinda listened to the cars
roaring past on their last laps,
the announcer urbanely giving
their positions, the excited com-
ment of the crowd. It all seemed
to come from beyond a dark
wall.
A girl’s voice said, “Buck up,
Lucy! He’ll be all right.”
HOURS later, it seemed, she
stumbled out of the car near
the ambulance-tent, with Jim’s
hand gripping her arm firmly,
and saw Toby walking towards
her with his helmet under his
arm.
He was smiling rather shakily.
There was a patch of sticking-
plaster on his cheek and one
hand was bandaged. She fell
into his arms and began to cry
with relief.
1 “Who’s hurt?” she asked at
! last. “Is it?” . . .
\ “Poor old Bill’s got a broken
l leg, but he’ll be all right. We
got into a mix-up at Cannery
Corner.”
“Your hand?” . . .
“A bit burnt, that’s all.
j But” He turned his head
x away. His mouth was set.
“What is it?”
s “The Widow. She’s burnt-
out completely. A total wreck.”
“Oh, Jug!”
She tried to look sorry, it was
awful for him, of course . . .
She hid her face against his over-
alls while she fought down a
surge of joy.
“How dreadful!”
As they drove home that
night, with the charred remains
of the Black Widow on the
trailer behind them, she kept
looking lovingly at Jug, full of
thankfulness that he was alive.
A car slowed abruptly in front
of them, and she nearly crashed
into it.
“For God’s sake look where
you’re going,” said Jug irritably.
“We don’t want this car wrecked
as well.”
She looked at him seriously.
“You know, I had an awful
premonition before that race,
she said. “And there was a
queer-looking man hovering
about you, I thought he looked
like Death, a horrible thin man
with a bony head”
“Oh, that bloke. Bad luck for
him ; I promised to let him sit
in the car afterwards. That was
the Pin-headed Giant from the
circus. He’s mad about racing-
cars.”
“From the circus! And I
was so frightened, I imagined
all sorts of dreadful things. But
I won’t be frightened any more.
I’ll really be able to. enjoy the
races when you’re not driving.
Perhaps you could learn to make
model-cars; that would be a
nice hobby. And Junior would
love them. Darling! Darling,
you’re not listening. What are
you thinking about?”
“H’m? Oh, I was just thinking
; about the new Jenkins Special
[ I’m going to build. It’s going
r to have two radiators, and two
carburettors, and a special-type
£ blower” . . .
T UCINDA closed her eyes in
\ •L' despair. If Toby hadn’t
) grabbed the wheel with his good
hand, they would have run into
a bus.
“And don’t tell me it’s danger-
: ous,” he said. “I’m a damned
* sight safer on a closed circuit
where everyone knows how to
drive than on the public high-
- way with you.”


LOW's
Autobiography
Intimate record of the private and public life of the incom-
parable Colonel Blimp, his character, habits, outlook,
philosophy, and famous sayings, with some account of his
calumniators and loyal supporters, here for the first time
veraciously narrated by his closest acquaintance, David
Low . . . Also, a meeting with Lord Halifax, when Low’s
cartoons are considered offensive to Hitler, tripping up to
glory.
“Gad, sir, remember our
family motto, ‘Backward
to the future .’ ”
BLIMP: BORN 1934 (APPROX.) STILL GOING STRONG
(In fact, he would seem to have become twins in this 1957 David Low
cartoon-comment in the “Manchester Guardian” on the recent post-Suez
fraying of Anglo-American relations.)
20
(Continued)
IOR years after I first introduced
Colonel Blimp to public life,
his character, habits and out-
look were defined, denounced
and defended by publicists,
philosophers and politicians the
world over, amply demonstrat-
ing the variety of ways in which one may
be misapprehended.
To begin with, on the slender evidence
of his appearance in a London newspaper,
nearly everyone assumed him and his
qualities to be exclusively British. The
“Times,” London, wrote: “Blimp stands
for that inertia in British policy which
drives the quick-witted to distraction.”
The “New York Times” wrote:
“Colonel Blimp is the symbol of all that’s
dull and stupid in British life.”
J. B. Priestley wanted him kept in
Britain, where he could not harm Anglo-
If
igf
i Gad, sir, lucy
Houston is ri£jjT.
. Tlit only uJay To
deal witty -rties« agitators
is To shooT'em all douJn
and iticn make 'em work.
American relations: “When I read quota-
tions from the American press [about
“British Blimps”]... .leave the Blimps to
us over here, I say.”
But “Blimp is not a result of the
iniquity of mankind but a symbol of
tradition,” said a paper in Shanghai,
seeing a wider horizon.
The Universal English Dictionary
summed-up Blimp as plain reactionary in
its entry: “Colonel Blimp. Figure in
cartoons by Low caricaturing an extreme
diehard type of outlook.”
“The cost of Blimp is too high,” said
a paper in Peru with the same idea.
“To be a colonel, after all, is not
exclusive evidence that one’s a blot,”
sang A. P. Herbert, taking a narrow
view of Blimp as representing a vendetta
against colonels.
Harold Nicolson went to the other
( extreme and opined that he was “a vast
excuse for deriding authority and justify-
ing disobedience.”
To Arnold Lunn, though, he repre-
sented, more modestly, an assault on
“England’s feudal and aristocratic
tradition.” Percy Wyndham Lewis, on
the other hand, wrote him down as part
of a press-plot to foment international
discord and mass murder.
Views differed considerably, but at
first they fell into roughly two categories:
(a) That Blimp was a destructive
representation of something bad and
therefore to be approved ; and
(b) That he was a malicious mis-
representation of something good,
and therefore to be disapproved.
I duly appreciated the friendly intent of
(a) and was exasperated by (b), but one
feature common to both often amazed
me. That was the facility with which
Blimp acquired purely fictitious back-
grounds to fit the romantic requirements
of an argument.
Complete strangers in large numbers
wrote passionately to tell me of his
honorable war-record. “Is it fair to
ridicule men like Colonel Blimp, without
whose steadfast courage we should never
have won the war?” was a frequent type
of comment.
I learned of his supreme sacrifice :
“The comfort and security we enjoy rests,
as it always has done, on the bones of
dead Blimps—Blimps who lacked the
cleverness to see that patriotism and
loyalty were humbug but fortunately did
not lack the fidelity and courage to die
for us,” wrote Arthur Bryant in the
“Illustrated London News” ; and of how
he had rushed to join the Home Guard :
“Those early veterans [of the Home
Guard] included a much-abused, much-
derided individual, Colonel Blimp,” wrote
the author of It All Happened Before,
who also gave details of the good com-
pany Blimp kept: “Any professional
soldier, sailor or airman above the age
of forty and approximate rank of major
was liable to qualify for the opprobrious
name of Blimp if he gave up the inaction
of retirement to offer himself for duty
once m0re..,., men like Wavell,
Alexander and Montgomery... .all could
have been dismissed contemptuously as
Blimps.”
Another knowall told me about
Blimp’s sons in the Royal Air Force.
DT got about that I had founded Blimp
upon the late Field-Marshal Lord
Roberts, which showed what a disgusting
fellow I was, to make fun of a dead man
who couldn’t answer back.
Obliging writers in the newspapers pro-
vided him with complete life-stories.
From Australia, no less, I learned that he
was “well-connected” in the country,
that he had been to a good public school
and thence to Sandhurst, that he held a
command in the Indian Army, that he
now lived in South Kensington, and that
0 Gad.sit*.
[ lord Bunk.
I is WghT. ihe
Goat. ate.
Ctkf'the. edjjjje,
of pn abyss
and Hie.
naton
' march soil’d ly
behind Them*
Col. 1
BUMP'S
UAD
he married the second daughter of the
Bishop of Bath and Wells.
An M.P., Sir Herbert Williams, wrote
to me to tell me that Blimp believed in
racial equality. I replied saying that he
had authorised me to say it was a black
lie.
Sir Herbert wouldn’t accept that and
said that he knew Blimp’s mind on the
subject.
MY brain began to reel. Blimp was
bolting. Had I invented this
buffoon or did he really exist? Was he
a creature of my imagination, his
qualities of mind, his peculiarities of
appearance touched-in according to my
fleeting whim?
If so, who but I had the authority to
create his home life? What right had
others to tell me his source, who or
what Blimp was? Was there someone of
the same name actually living somewhere
hidden away, whom I had unwittingly
traduced? Worse, were there several
Colonel Blimps, all traduced?
Two old gentlemen whom I had never
seen had vaguely threatened to bring
libel suits against me, each claiming to be
the original Colonel Blimp. Were there
others?
TIME rolled on. Out of all this mist
of wild nonsense a new, third,
category appeared:
(c) That Blimp was a misrepresenta-
tion of something good, which was
intended to be destructive, but back-
fired on the artist because the mis-
representation only proved the
goodness.
Lord Elton, a typical exponent,
solemnly deplored my treatment of
Blimp as a subversive “attack upon the
military virtues loyalty, courage,
endurance, discipline.”
His lordship produced the evidence of
some quotations from Blimp to support
his contention, but it transpired that he
had come by these quotations through
cutting some Blimpisms in halves,
printing only the half that suited his
argument.
For instance. Blimp saying: “Gad,
sir, Winston is right. We must have more
armaments,” was quite a different thing
from Blimp saying: “Gad, sir, Winston
is right. We must have more armaments,
not only to uphold international law,
but to protect ourselves from justice and
right.”
I was incensed at the cool butchery
of my performance and I protested in
letters to the press ; but I did not succeed
in convincing his Lordship that when
one cuts a confusion of ideas in halves
one gets more than one end.
When his Lordship produced a further
quotation, a whole one this time, and a
departure from the usual Blimp form:
“Gad, sir, Lord Castlebosh is right. We
must not neglect chemical warfare. The
future of civilisation may depend upon
our making a worse smell than the
enemy” to prove, to his own satisfaction
at least, that I had been the ass and Blimp
the wise one, I retired from the corres-
pondence, mortified by this exposure of
my misguided oracularity.
A NOTHER interesting example of the
same attitude of mind, but in the
political field, was afforded when the
central office of the Conservative party
collected a dossier about Colonel Blimp
and myself, under the impression that for
their party-interest it was necessary to
prove that Blimp was right and Low was
wrong.
A Conservative-party exhibition was
held, for which the promoters mounted
and exhibited clippings of my Blimp
drawings, complete with confused dicta,
and faced them with photographs of Con-
servative leaders with specimen states-
manlike utterances, to prove that the libel
had been foul and there was no real
identity between the two groups.
To me the whole thing was a singularly
futile proceeding, since I had never at


any time given Blimp a party label. But
evidently to others there existed at least
a large doubt.
The incident reminded me of the prank
cruel small boys used to play on their
simpler kind by egging them on to shout
repeatedly what was alleged to be the
Siamese war-cry: “O war ta na Siam!”
Say it quickly several times and you
get the idea.
LIKE other cartoonists, I knew very
well from experience that the suc-
cess or failure (in a popular sense) of a
cartoon depended not only upon the
merits of its execution, but also upon the
receptivity of the beholder.
I worked upon the assumption that
half the effect of a cartoon was con-
tributed by the fellow who looked at it;
so I, for my part, tried to evoke associa-
tions of ideas which would bring him to
see it my way. But I was appalled some-
times at the revelation of what went on
inside the heads of my customer-
collaborators. The inventor of a symbol
may tolerate its misinterpretations, but
to endure censure for them was too much
to be borne.
When it was affirmed that Blimp was
right and Low was wrong, I was tempted
to argue on both public and personal
grounds ; for here, it seemed to me, was
the justification and enthronement of dis-
order ; and here also was the impugning
of my own judgment, for I had
deliberately contrived the disorder.
I turned from the drawing-board to the
typewriter and flew into print to clear the
air.
Was Blimp right? Was Low wrong? I
had contended that Colonel Blimp had
been conceived and sustained by me as a
symbol of stupidity; not of colonels, nor
of stupid colonels in particular; not of
Authority, nor especially of stupid
Authority; not exclusively of the Right-
wing nor the Left; for stupidity had no
frontiers, domestic or foreign.
Boy! Bring me the records!
The files showed that Colonel Blimp up
to the date of my article had made
260-odd appearances, the subject-matter
of his reflections dividing-up as
follows:
Military virtues (and vices) .. .. 7
Feudal-aristocratic tradition .. 3
Home and Umpire policy .. .. 69
Foreign policy 139
Miscellaneous 47
If we permitted ourselves to employ
the unscrupulous deductive methods of
some hostile critics to straighten out the
asinine twist into a positive conclusion,
it seemed that Blimp, though he usually
contradicted himself, was no enthusiast
for democracy (“The only way to teach
people self-respect is to treat ’em like
the curs fliey are”).
He was impatient of the common
people and their complaints (“To give the
unemployed enough to eat is to sap their
sturdy British independence”). His
remedy for social unrest was less educa-
tion, so that people could not read about
slumps.
He was an extreme isolationist, dislik-
ing foreigners (which included Jews, Irish,
Scots, Welsh, and people from the
Colonies and Dominions); a man of
violence, approving war, per se. It was
good for the physique (“Bayonets bring
the best out of a man—and it stays out”);
and for the spirit (“Wars are necessary —
otherwise how can heroes defend their
countries?”).
He had no use
for the League of
Nations (“Too many
foreigners”) nor for
international efforts to
prevent wars (“Shut
up Geneva, so that
people may make war
in peace”). 1
In particular he
objected to any
economic reorganisa-
tion of world resources
involving changes in
the status quo (“Never
shall we yield our
colonies, even if we
have to buy a
geography and find out
where the bloomings
things are”).
He whooped for
rearmament while a
chance of constructing
peace remained to be
sabotaged. The arms
were not for defence of
any ideal or “way-of-
life,” but to protect
the overseas invest-
ments of his friends.
Blimp believed in the
production of these
arms by private enter-
prise strictly according
to the rules of profit
(“We must not stop
our arms-factories from supplying the
enemy, or they might not supply us, and
then what sort of wars would we have?”)
WHEN the dictators menace came
along, Blimp didn’t recognise it.
To him, China, Abyssinia, Spain and
Czechoslovakia seemed to be just dirty
smacks at the “dashed Reds.”
He excused the aggressors (“The
Japanese are only killing the Chinese to
save them from their enemies”), (“How
can we expect Mussolini to behave
Co). BLIMPS NEW DEAL
f■ a t
Gad,sir*, to&s ffi&hT. We should
absorb our UriemployecC by stanTn^^h cm
building concentration camps 'To lock Mfw*
n in.
decently if we object to his dropping gas-
bombs?”), (“Hitler only needs arms so
that he can declare peace on the rest of
the world”); he objected to the use of
economic means to cramp their style
(“We can’t declare a boycott of Japanese
goods because then how could Japan
pay innocent businessmen for the raw
material to make their bombs?”).
He was all for appeasement (“There’s
only one way to stop these bullying
aggressors—find out what they want us to
do and then do it”).
Even when it became obvious that the
British would have to fight he obstructed
collective resistance, especially with
Russia (“Before we can allow Russia to
protect the British Empire we must insist
on her restoring the capitalist system”).
EWAS supposed, by inference and under
the same kind of reasoning, to deny
Blimp’s dicta, to represent his opposition.
(I was responsible for Blimp’s side, too,
of course. But that could pass.) >
Very well. That made me a sturdy
democrat, considerate of the condition of
the common people ; for more education ;
for international co-operation; holding
war, per se, as bad; for the League of
Nations and united efforts to build a
sane international system; for economic
reorganisation of world resources to that
Gad, sir 4 , Lord Beatty is We
musT build a navy
than Ihe enemy
uiil! build uihen
he hears weVe
building a |
navy than
he's building.
SECURITY COL BUMP
end; for piping-down national arms
while hope of constructive peace
remained; for nationalisation of arms-
production, for mechanisation and up-to-
date equipment; for collective defence
with other States against warmongers ;
against the dictators, when they came
along; for cramping them early with an
economic stranglehold ; against appease-
ment ; and, when Hitler showed his hand
plainly, for collective resistance, especially
with Russia.
Well, that suited me. I rested my case.
]7 UNDERTOOK that analysis more as
ii an exercise in clarification than with
any idea of converting the heathen.
Having got it out of my system, I
found, with a faint dismay, that I had
gone far to get Blimp out, too. I had
other fish to fry and my interest in him
was diminishing.
With all “creations” of his kind,
personifications, synthetic types and
symbols of abstractions, there comes ,a
time when they must look after them-
selves. I could not go on keeping Blimp
in line for ever. I still controlled by
copyright his commercial exploitation, and
I still emphatically denied the personal
discredit of his misinterpretations, but
otherwise he could live his own life, like
John Bull, Britannia, Ally Sloper, Old
Bill and the other myths.
WHEN Michael Powell proposed to
make a super-film about him, and
Emeric Pressburger, his script-writer
partner, spun his tale of “The Life and
Death of Colonel Blimp” into my
fascinated ear, I was too dazed with
admiration of Emeric’s phenomenal
power of story-telling (he left Schehera-
zade standing) to find any reason for not
agreeing.
I woke up in time, however, to make
two stipulations: that Blimp had to be
proved a fool in the end, and that they,
Powell and Pressburger, took all the
responsibility.
I enlarged my experience of life watch-
ing from a privileged position behind the
camera the solid work of building-up my
simple symbol into a super-colossal two-
and-a-half-hour feature-film. Amazing
chaps, both blending social ideas with
entertainment in their own medium for
their own public. A different blend, a
different medium and a different public
from mine. I did not interfere.
The product emerged at last as an
extremely sentimental film about a
glamorous old colonel whose romantic
attachments nearly—but not quite-
obscured the conclusion that if Britain
followed his out-of-date ideas in modern
war, we should all be blown to blazes. In
the cinema I am sentimental and I like
films about romantic attachments, so at
the premiere I sat in an obscure seat with
a large cigar and enjoyed it.
WHY not? I did not hate Blimp. I
hated stupidity, but I would have
had a bilious life of it had I hated all
people that were stupid.
Furthermore, my original conception of
Blimp had been as a corrective of
stupidity in general, not exclusively of
that in hateful people, and it seemed to
me useful to drop a hint that even nice
people can be fools.
This view, I was pained to find, was
not shared by some of my erstwhile good
friends and supporters, to whom the
Blimp film was an outrage against their
simple belief that, in political or social
fantasy, hateful ideas must always be
represented by hateful characters.
“Blimp de-Blimped,” “Attempt to
whitewash Blimp,” “Blimp’s answer to
Low,” “Low’s pot-bellied tyrant
rehabilitated” were sample expressions of
this view in the press. “O Low! O Low!
What induced you to offer up your
character to be made unrecognisable
under a thick coating of technicolor sugar,
Col BLIMP pg**W3 Wtootj
Cad.siV, Lansbufy !s
League of Masons should insist
on peace except of course, in I he,
event of uiar*.
to be laughed at, loved and made piteous
as just a dear sentimental doddering old
fool?” wailed the “New Statesman and
Nation.”
Such innocence of the more subtle
forms of persuasion seemed to me to be
itself apt material for a few ripe
Blimpisms.
OTHER eyes saw a different signific-
ance. Linder the heading “Blimp
Film Must Not Go Abroad,” the “Daily
Mail” waxed indignant at a “gross
travesty” of “British officers as stupid,
complacent, self-satisfied and ridiculous.”
It appeared that the depiction of Blimp
as a fine fellow, in keeping with the
expectations of those who thought of him
as a fine fellow, had had a double-edged
merit in that, in their eyes, it imparted
a greater verisimilitude to the whole,
stupidity and all. “We cannot afford,”
said the “Daily Mail,” “to put out a
burlesque figure like this screen-version of
Colonel Blimp to go round the world as
a personification of the regular British
officer.”
Churchill, the Prime Minister, was at
the first night with Eden, his Privy Seal,
and, I heard, formed some pretty definite
ideas about it. According to my “Even-
ing Standard” friends, he talked to his
colleagues in the Cabinet and to White-
hall officials. Then almost every Govern-
ment department sent delegations to view
the film and give their impressions.
Then six high-ups made the decision
that it would not be advisable to let the
film go out as representing the British
Army.
Some months passed before everybody
cooled down,
MOBODY need have worried. The
film got at last to the United States,
but on the way its Blimpish content had
apparently. communicated itself to its
entrepreneurs.
The poster-publicity in New York
showed Colonel Blimp (by an irrelevant
association with a popular character
regularly appearing on the cover of the
magazine “Esquire”) as a lecherous old
bounder leering at leggy females.
That made me wince rather more than
the unauthorised use in the Moscow press
by my old friend Boris Efimov, the
Russian cartoonist, of Blimp as the
personification of British delay in form-
ing a Second Front in World War 11.
The latter was at least in character.
BLIMP’S life as a film-star and a season
on the stage in a revue-sketch did not
affect his life with me.
For the rest of World War II he
cropped-up intermittently in “Evening
Standard” war-cartoons, in which,
(Continued on next page)


naturally, his connection with military
affairs tended to elbow aside his other
aspects.
I could never be quite sure, when I
entered a room where there were Army
officers, whether I was going to find
friendly smiles or bloodshot glares. There
were some awkward moments socially.
A memorable one occurred when my
old friend Edward Thompson, the poet
and novelist, arranged a meeting for me
with Lord Wavell. The Field-Marshal
was about to set out for India to become
WARWICK ARMSTRONG
(The W. G. Grace of Australian
cricket. Test-player over 19 years;
led Australia to eight successive
victories over England after World
War I; scored 2172 against England,
with 74 wickets at just under 31
apiece. Tall, slim when he got his
first Test-place in 1902, he put on a
bit of poundage, but it didn’t damage
his skill.)
Viceroy. When I arrived at his flat I
sensed a vague hostility in the atmos-
phere. I observed that I was not to be
accorded the courtesy of privacy—
another visitor was present, and I soon
found myself frozen out of a conversa-
tion which became very technical on
military matters.
In time the talk switched to the irre-
sponsibility of the press in its comments
on Army matters and I found myself, to
my surprise, faced by a Field-Marshal
with a distinctly unfriendly eye, being
bawled-out about Colonel Blimp and his
alleged part in this wrongdoing.
I got sick of this. I seethed with
repressed indignation. I said, icily: “Sir,
you are misinformed. Colonel Blimp is
not a military, but a political, symbol.
Only about two per cent, of his aphorisms
are concerned with military affairs, and
those ridiculed your own critics. The
only thing military about Colonel Blimp
is his title.”
There was an awkward silence. The
other visitor wound-up his business and
went, leaving me looking for my hat.
The Field-Marshal said: “Aren’t you
going to draw me?”
I said: “Thank you, it is unnecessary.
I will remember all I need about this
afternoon,” and left.
After such an unpromising opening
one would hardly expect subsequent
cordiality. But there was a happy ending
to this story. Some weeks later I was
pleasantly surprised to receive out of the
blue a long and friendly letter from
Wavell at Delhi about features of Indian
life and affairs which he considered
might interest me as an artist. Evidently
the old man had thought again and con-
cluded he had been unjust.
I replied in kind. The correspondence
left a fragrant memory.
WHEN World War II ended there
was just as much mental muddle
in the world —perhaps even more than
before; but Blimp as a
character” had become too
identified with the pre-war and
war years to fit easily into the
post-war chapter. I could
never have overtaken his
military legend.
Sometimes, when, twenty
years after his invention, 1
come across his name in a
newspaper spelt as an ordinary
word without a capital letter
and used as a synonym for
military or administrative
incompetence, I wonder how
he might have turned out if in
that Turkish bath of 1934 I had chosen to
christen him Dr. Blimp, or Bishop Blimp,
usmg the same aphorisms, without the
alteration of a single comma.
Would I have been struck off the
register of the British Medical Council
for infamous professional conduct?
Would I have been excommunicated for
subverting the Established Church?
Perhaps not. After all, it was a great
and good Archbishop of Canterbury,
William Temple, who said that it was not
the ape or the tiger in man that he
feared ; it was the donkey.
21
THE bannings of my cartoons in
Germany and Italy cut both ways.
Although they nipped in the bud my
sparse circulation inside the German
Reich and Italy, the advertisement did
me more good than harm elsewhere, for
reprints in foreign newspapers began to
increase and went on until I had quite a
respectable regular syndication through-
out non-totalitarian Europe and Asia.
German Foreign Office documents
published after the war revealed how the
Nazis took criticism by the British press
in the pre-war years. They complained
repeatedly to Lord Halifax, then Foreign
Secretary. The German Ambassador in
London, Dr. von Dirksen, in drafting a
telegram to his immediate L>oss, Ribben-
trop, on insults to the Fiihrer in the
British Press, recalls that:
On his return to England he [Lord
Halifax] had done his best to prevent
excesses in the press; he had had discus-
sions with two well-known cartoonists,
one of them the notorious Low, and with
a number of eminent representatives of
the press, and had tried to bring influence
to bear on them. He had been successful
up to a point.
It was extremely regrettable that numer-
ous lapses were again to be noted in recent
months... .Lord Halifax promised to do
everything possible to prevent such insults
to the Fiihrer in the future.
Thereby hangs a tale.
the close of 1937 Lord
Halifax visited Germany, ostensibly
to see the Nazi-propaganda International
Hunting Exhibition in Berlin, but mainly
HUGH TRUMBLE
(Spin-bowler of last century and a
bit later, he still holds two records:
most wickets of any Australian
bowler (141) in Tests against
England, and only bowler to have
taken two hat-tricks in England-
Australian Tests. In his last Test—
in Melbourne; March, 1904 —he
bagged 7-28.)
to talk to Hitler and advance the pros-
pects of keeping the peace in Europe.
On his return he met Brigadier (then
Captain) Michael Wardell, chairman of
the “Evening Standard,” and spoke of
the intense bitterness among the Nazi
bosses over attacks on them in the
British press. Halifax said Hitler and
the others were particularly sensitive to
HIT AND MUSS
my cartoons. Every Low cartoon attack-
ing Hitler was taken to the Fiihrer at
once—and he blew up.
Wardell suggested that Lord Halifax
should tell me these things personally.
Halifax agreed. The meeting took the
form of a lunch at Wardell’s flat in
Albion Gate, where we three had a
pleasant and interesting luncheon.
Lord Halifax described the Nazi point
of view, explaining that, partly because
they had no long tradition of Govern-
ment, the Nazis were unable to take
press criticism calmly. He drew verbally
a pretty picture of Goebbels raging over a
selection of my cartoons laid out in a row
on a table. He said the fury and bitter-
ness caused by the “Evening Standard”
C. G. MACARTNEY
(Like Low himself, well and truly
on deck. The “ Governor-General”
of cricket; one of the three (with
Trumper and Bradman) who have
hit a century before lunch in Anglo-
Australian Tests. In England in
1926 he made 133 not-out, 151 (the
“century-before-lunch” innings) and
109 in successive Test-innings. He
made two other Test-centuries
against England, all five being
glorious knocks. In all first-class
cricket he hit 48 centuries.)
cartoons was “out of all proportion to
the motive which prompted their publi-
cation.”
Lord Halifax, I knew, was a good man,
an upright man. He looked worried and
I felt respect and warm sympathy for
one who was sincerely striving for peace
under the most discouraging circum-
stances. At the same time, although I
did not say it, I felt in my bones that
Lord Halifax was not quite the right
person to deal successfully with persons
whose conceptions of goodness and up-
rightness were the opposite of his own.
1 said something about my having a
duty, too, like any other journalist in a
democracy whose work had an educative
element, to present faithfully the sub-
stance of what was happening. I added
that, although I could understand that
the Nazis might find criticism mighty
inconvenient, I had difficulty in believing
they were so volatile that politeness would
cause them to modify their plans.
“Do I understand you to say that you
would find it easier fo promote peace if
my cartoons did not irritate the Nazi
leaders personally?” I asked, finally.
“Yes,” he replied.
WE left it at that, and sitting, on
Wardell’s roof-garden we looked
at Hyde Park below and talked about the
weather.
I had my private sources of informa-
tion, British and American correspon-
dents travelling to and fro between
Britain and Germany, Webb-Millar, John
Gunther, Raymond Daniel, Ed. Keene
and others, to tell me how Lord Halifax
was being taken for a ride; I had just
returned from Austria myself and had
smelt something on the wind; and
Hitler’s last published Budget had given
him away as being headed for war. But
Lord Halifax, after all, was Foreign
Secretary with all the strings in hand,
and maybe I was wrong. Without relax-
ing the critical note, I played it in a less
personal key.
EN Germany, Dr. Goebbels followed up
his lead to Halifax by a dissertation
on humor wherein he told his fellow-
countrymen at what they might laugh.
He approved of jokes against Jews;
Communists (and even Liberals) were, of
course, fair game ; but “a joke,” says he,
“ceases to be a joke when it touches the
holiest matters of the national State” —
that is to say, Hitler, Nazism, the racial
State and presumably himself.
One of the most appalling things about
those confusing days was the sheeplike
docility with which well-meaning people
followed a lead up the garden path.
One expected such brazen nonsense from
Goebbels. But it was horrifying to read a
little later in the “Church Times”:
Good taste, one element of which is
kindness, forbids joking concerning subjects
which are held sacred by others.... I doubt
whether Low’s cartoons make Mr.
Chamberlain’s appeasement path any easier.
A few weeks after my conversation
with Halifax, Nazi troops entered
Austria. Halifax was reputed to have
been at first incredulous, then amazed.
He had been taken for a ride. My polite-
ness had been wasted—if indeed I had
not by softening protests contributed
my mite to a Nazi manoeuvre to weaken
Britain morally before this fresh outrage.
I considered that this let me out and I
dropped my politeness.
THINGS got a bit mixed at times
between me and the “Evening
Standard.” On the main issues of the
day, I believed it was One World, upheld
the League and was for combined effort
to defend peace by economic pressure and
international force.
Beaverbrook didn’t believe it was One
World, thought the League was meddle-
some and that Britain should mind its
own business and develop the Empire.
Cartoons and leading articles often
flatly contradicted one another, scandal-
ising the worthy souls who saw it as a
ROBERT
GARRAN
(Some enterprising
Australian -publisher
might consider a
new Australian work
of reference one
correcting all the
errors in other Aus-
tralian works of
reference. A couple
of million words
might do it. The
suggestion springs
from these pages
having taken Serle’s
word for it that
Powers, J. of Low’s
(Australian High Court Bench (B.
6/12 /’ 57), was “first Solicitor-General"
for the Commonwealth. A friendly note
from a much safer authority in Canberra
points out that Sir Robert Garran held
that office from 1901 to 1932. Powers
was first Crown Solicitor of the Com-
monwealth (1903-1913), a different office
altogether.)


serious defect in Lord Beaverbrook that
he be not one-eyed. Inevitably stories
got around, when for some reason or
other, a cold or a journey, I missed a
cartoon, that I was undergoing “dis-
cipline.” My friend Hannen Swaffer, the
columnist, who had a watchful eye open
for occasions when my cartoon should
have appeared and didn’t, was apt to
draw conclusions at the top of his voice
and headline his suspicions: “Is Low
Censored?”
(§. UCH vigilance would have been a
useful safeguard for me had Lord
Beaverbrook not been the sort of man he
was. But the truth was that his attitude
to my personal charter of freedom
remained impeccable, and the misgivings
I had had on joining his paper had been
long forgotten.
Often he disagreed with me profoundly
and did not fail to say so. Cartoons of
Hitler tripping up to glory on stairs
formed by the spineless backs of demo-
cratic statesmen ; and Hitler demanding
with menaces to know what the same
democratic statesmen would give him not
to kick their pants for twenty-five years,
hardly fitted the Beaverbrook line, but
went into the paper without a word,
except after publication.
There was an occasion when I drew a
doubt as to whether the inclusion of
Japan in the Axis did not show the Hitler-
Mussolini crusade against “godless”
Russia to be a fraud, and a telegram
arrived from his Lordship in Canada to
protest that the imputation was unfair,
since Hitler had not declared himself
against Christianity. But even after he
visited Germany, where he succeeded in
getting the “Daily Express” ban lifted,
but was told frankly that so long as he
kept me as cartoonist the “Evening
Standard” would be banned, there were
no recriminations, but instead a worried
solicitude for my own safety.
Fresh from Dr. Goebbels, and hearing
of my occasional trips to Europe, Beaver-
brook was full of dire warnings that to
show my nose in Germany would be
asking for an “accident.”
The problem of free comment and
personal relations had solved itself long
before, so far as we were concerned.
How fortunate. Since the political scene
would have been notably incomplete
without his busy Lordship, I often had to
draw him, and I never insulted him by
pulling punches just because it was his
newspaper.
One misunderstanding chump said to
me one day: “How Beaver must
hate you in his heart!” I did not men-
tion that I had spent the previous after-
noon in the greatest amity with Beaver-
brook flying around the south coast in
his new airplane.
(To be continued next week)
Low in Melbourne
From C. R. BRADISH
T WAS greatly interested to see
in The Bulletin
(20/2/’57) a comment I made on Low
and the value of Hughes as a subject
which I wrote in the old pink paper in
1918.
At that time I was working in the
Melbourne office of The Bulletin, then
under the care of that supreme English-
man the late Edmund Fisher, and I saw
a good deal of Low, who did most of his
cartoons in Melbourne.
Nearly 40 years have gone by, but I
have a vivid memory of that good-look-
ing, mentally assured young artist infatu-
ated with the theory, to which he later
gave the stature of a deep Oriental
religion, that the newspaper-cartoon
always said more than the written word.
His drawings were then the talk of the
continent, and he was destined to survive
and forget the silly comparisons that
were made between him and Phil May,
who, after his three brilliant years on The
Bulletin in the 1880’s, had departed to
England, there to record in intimate
snapshots of character the Cockney
humor that he knew so well.
Low was not greatly interested in the
May form of black-and-white expression.
The New Zealander’s art had a higher
purpose—the underlining, often with a
subtle ironic emphasis, of the infamies
and idiocies of the international political
scene. I can recall that even in Mel-
bourne 40 years ago the ambition to rock
Whitehall and the Quai d’Orsay and
cause shudders in Washington or Moscow
shone in his indomitable eyes.
Personally he was a little naive, easy-
going, most amiable lad in those fine
days, his greatest vice, perhaps, an
occasional youthful party that terrified
sophisticates with its splendid displays of
cakes and tea.
I remember well the consternation in
EUROPEAN CLOTHESLINE (1933)
SAFETY FIRST (1935)
STEPPING-STONES TO GLORY (1936)
(The above three representative London “Evening Standard" cartoons well illustrate
Low’s uncanny knack or gift of accurate prophetic assessment of Hitler’s intentions.)
The Bulletin headquarters in Sydney
when, owing to the persuasive satire of
The Billy Book, to which at Low’s invita-
tion I had contributed one or two of the
suggestions, the .artist was bidden to go
to London to instruct it in the almost hoiy
purpose of the newspaper-cartoon. The
sight of the late William Macleod (then
managing-director of The Bulletin) in
the Melbourne office of the paper, his
large spectacles almost dripping with his
disappointment as he proclaimed that,
despite strong financial inducements, he
had failed to keep the lad anchored to his
drawing-board in Melbourne, remains an
unforgettable tableau to me.
Years later I was to behold Low in
London, his juvenile simplicities buried
in the aplomb that comes of eating rich
foods and drinking expensive fizzy fluids
with the most important beings in the
realm. Low had become a potentate. He
had physically widened; his mental
attitude had become almost Olympian,
though to me, an old friend on whom
he had bestowed sundry warmly regarded
hospitalities, he was still somewhat
reminiscent in his irreverences of his
early associations on the paper on which
we had both exercised our youthful
pens.
What I missed in those contacts in
London was something of the inveigling
serenity and artlessness that had been
part of his make-up in Melbourne. It is
highly probable that he would have
scoffed at the recollection of a quaint
dream he advertised in Melbourne of
having beheld Shakspeare (though it may
have been Bacon or the 17th Earl of
Oxford) sitting and glowering at him
from the end of his bed. Possibly he
would be equally sardonic if someone
mentioned the queer story of the com-
pact he is alleged to have made with
The Bulletin’s advertising-manager in
Melbourne, the late J. Norgrove, a con-
firmed spiritualist in those far-off times.
Those and other anecdotes of the
inimitable Low and of other artists,
authors, actors, cricketers, capitalists and
scoundrels that I encountered during a
half-century in journalism in Australia,
England and America I have mentioned
in more detail in my recollections, entitled
“Back Seat at the Circus,” for which I
am-now trying to find a publisher.


Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
IJ'H/S
Thanks to
NEO-
BARBERS
No Pads—
No Springs
The NEO - BABREBK
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BA It KE HE DISTRIBUTION CO
(Dept. 3i), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Missing Friend
MARJORY ISABEL STEPHENS
WOULD any relatives or friends of the
above-named (also known as MADGE
ISABEL STEPHENS), who was bom at
Coogee Bay, Sydney, Australia, in 1889,
and was the daughter of ALFRED
STEPHENS and MARGARET ANN
STEPHENS, please communicate with
the PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE, Rotorua,
New Zealand.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN O. LEWIS (Chairman)
F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M.
DOUGLASS. MALCOLM O. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director.
Branches in all States.
Agencies in all Country Centres.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
With Redcraze safely away in
Sydney, it was expected that
Sailor’s Guide would have little
difficulty in winning the Queen’s
Cup on the last day of the
V.R.C. Autumn Carnival. But
carrying the maximum weight
of 9.5 on a heavy track Sailor’s
Guide ran like a tired horse, to
finish second to Sir William.
Apparently his hopeless pursuit
of Redcraze in the St. George
Stakes, Queen’s Plate and Queen
Elizabeth Stakes has dulled his
enthusiasm for racing.
Owners of Sir William, the
Rockman Bros., proprietors of
a Melbourne department-store,
also race third-placegetter Mac’s
Amber. Sir William, a six-year-
Old gelding sired in N.Z. by
' Gold Nib from Silver Coin,
apparently appreciates an im-
portant occasion—in December,
1955, he won the International
Stakes when ridden by Harry
Carr, the Queen’s jockey.
Interesting to note that as a four-
year-old Sir William ran second
to Redcraze in a hack-race at
Wellington.
• • • *1
Despite his succession of
defeats, Sailor’s Guide remains
one of the most popular horses
ever to race in Victoria. Senti-
mentally described by most
racing-writers as a “gallant little
champion,” he actually measures
16 hands and a £in. When the
pressure is on he gallops with
his neck stretched right out and
his head down, making him look
a lot smaller than he is. In
presenting the Queen’s Cup, Sir
Dallas Brooks, Governor of
Victoria, mentioned that most
people at the course had looked
forward to cheering Sailor’s
Guide to victory; and it is safe
to say that he wasn’t thinking
of the betting angle.
• • • •
Racegoers look to the mile
Gibson-Carmichael Stakes, the
season’s first staying test for two-
year-olds, to give a lead to the
spring classics. Certainly Storm
Gleam, who gave weight and a
beating to the colts in last Satur-
day’s race, looks an ideal Oaks
proposition. By Sun Storm
from Crown Appeal, Storm
Gleam, who also won the
Bloodhorse Breeders’ Plate last
Wednesday, is a full-sister to
Arlunya. She is owned and
trained by J. M. Cummings, well
known as the trainer of Comic
Court.
Sandara may prove one of
the few Victorian representatives
capable of winning at the A.J.C.
Autumn Carnival. Her easy vic-
tory in the A. V. Kewney Stakes
earned Sandara a start in the
Adrian Knox Stakes at Rand-
wick. Incidentally, the winning
ride on the filly made Arthur
Ward’s tally of winners in Vic-
toria this season 16 —an extra-
ordinary record for a jockey who
has ridden only at the spring and
autumn carnivals.
Acquilla (by Masthead from
Jalna), who had found the Aus-
tralian Cup journey a shade too
far, relished the 14 furlongs
of the Flemington Handicap.
Admirably ridden by country
jockey Mick Evangelista (making
one of his rare trips to the city),
Acquilla had four lengths to
spare from hurdler Mantel Talk,
with Illoura a head away third.
Favorite in the race was ex-
Sydney stayer Roman Holiday,
who in his last four starts has
mixed two excellent w.-f.-a.
placings with two dismal handi-
cap performances.
Since the distance was in-
creased, in 1948, from a mile to
10 furlongs, the rich (£5000)
Alister Clark Stakes, to be run
at Moonee Valley next Saturday,
has been won by some pretty
good horses; Comic Court,
Chicquita and Hydrogen among
them. There won’t be a starter
in next Saturday’s field to
measure up to that trio. Pos-
sibly the good three-year-old
Lord Gavin will win.
Chateau King, winner of the
Warwick Farm March Handicap
last Saturday, is on the limit —
7st.-=-in both the S.T.C. Cup
“He got cramps in the mile Walk.”
and the Sydney Cup, and this
promising four-year-old, though
only a modest stayer to date,
could have prospects in both
races. He was handicapped at
7st. for his latest success, but
N. McGrowdie rode him at 31b.
over. Chateau King has the
necessary staying-qualifications,
and in most races he has come
from the rear of the field. He
is by Chateau Roussel (imp.)—
a staying-winner in England, by
Bois Roussel, a winner of the
English Derby—and is from
Posmaine by Posterity (imp.)
from Charmaine by Manfred.
• • • «
Summalu cleared out with the
V.R.C. St. Leger, but he’ll find
the opposition much stronger in
the A.J.C. classic at Randwick
on Saturday, April 20, judging
by two sound performances at
Warwick Farm —by dual Derby-
winner Monte Carlo and by
Harnham Hill, who’s still to win
a race. These colts ran excel-
lent races, though defeated ; they
will strip much better for the
St. Leger.
Harnham Hill seemed to be
badly handicapped, for a non-
winner, with 9.3 in the Warwick
Farm Novice. He almost suc-
ceeded, and it was the weight
that beat him in the final half-
furlong. He had to concede
upwards of 141 b. to winners,
and one of them, Medallion,
downed him.
Monte Carlo shared third-
place in the March Handicap,
but he was on the big side,
having only his second run
since his Victoria Derby.
S.T.C. chairman H. Tancred
and vice-chairman W. Long-
worth and their wives race two-
year-old Lord Russett, winner
of the Warwick Farm First
Juvenile Maiden. They are
racing a promising youngster.
He’s a Newtown Wonder (imp.)
s
gelding from Buzgold by The
Buzzard (imp.).
Raced by New Zealand stud-
masters Sir James and J. C.
Fletcher, of Alton Lodge, Te
Kauwhata, two-year-old gelding
By Far came sharply into the
market for the Warwick Farm
First Juvenile Maiden. By Far
was having his first Sydney run,
and his third-placing was promis-
ing. He’s particularly well bred,
being by Gold Nib (imp.) from
an imported mare, Fame, by
Gainsborough. He should soon
win.
Yes Please missed a place in
the Warwick Farm Flying
Handicap; the distance (six
furlongs) apparently too short
for him. His supporters for the
Doncaster shouldn’t have any
worries; the New Zealander
will be better suited by the mile.
Two-year-old Mayfair Belle.,
winner of the Warwick Farm
Maiden for fillies, is by Brueghel
(It.) from Magnificent Lady by
Ajax from Mitebite by Moabite
(imp.), and is closely related to
Fascinating, a speedy Melbourne
winner, and to former Sydney
sprinters Pantomime and Ajixa.
The S.T.C.’s Canterbury Cup
will be staged next Saturday,
and on April 6 its £lO,OOO
Golden Slipper Stakes, This
latter innovation is as good as
certain to be contested by repre-
sentative top-class two-year-
olds from all parts of Australia
and from New Zealand. On
the same afternoon the club’s
£5OOO Cup will also be run.
Tasmanian Racing Club’s
Champion Stakes meeting is set
down for Saturday, May 4. Next
Saturday the club will stage its
37th Doncaster Handicap (one
mile), for which a good entry
has been received by secretary
Brian Osborne. On the same
programme is the Tasmanian
Breeders’ Intermediate Plate.
Mrs. B. McKenzie paid
3300gns. at the Melbourne sales
for a brother to Glitzern. The
colt is by Empyrean (imp.) from
Luminant by St, Magnus (imp.)
from Luminare by Chief Ruler
(imp.), and was bred at L. F.
Aldridge’s Kismet Park stud.
Among Canterbury Park
trainer Jack Denham’s purchases
was a classy-looking colt by
Masthead (imp.) from Oriental
Splendour (imp.).
• • • •
Few races in any part of the
world are run at half-a-mile,
and Gloaming’s 45sec. for the
distance, run at Trentham (N.Z.)
in January, 1921, remains a
long-standing record. The only
other world’s best held by an
Australasian galloper is Gay
Revelry’s 2.81 for 101 furlongs
at Mentone in December, 1942 ;
later (two years ago) equalled at
Warwick Farm by First Century.
Other countries, however, don’t
stage races at 101 furlongs. At
Hollywood Park, California,
Swaps, in winning the £49,330
Sunset Handicap, ran world-
record time of 2.381 for 13
furlongs. The time was one
second better than Ace Admiral’s
record made at Santa Anita in
1949. Australia’s best for the
distance, 2.41|, was made by
Dashing Cavalier in the A.J.C.
Metropolitan Handicap in 1941 ;
equalled two years later in the
same race by Main Topic. In
America, of course, most times
are made from what we’d call
flying starts.
+ +
The first two “Tests” between
N.Z. and Craig’s Australians,
both drawn, went to a pattern.
Australia, batting first, twice
tallied almost the same score
(216, 215), and N.Z. twice got a
first-innings lead. After that, both
times, merely going through the
motions till stumps on the third
day, with no decision in any way
likely ; rain limited play on the
third day of the second Test. The
third and final “Test” begins at
Auckland on Mar. 29.
• • • •
Cricket in N.Z. appears to be on
the up-and-up in standard. N.Z. has
fared badly in recent Test-series, but
is now possibly benefiting from the
experience. Here is a brief summary
of its recent Test-cricket: In 1953-54,
in South Africa, the home team com-
fortably won four Tests, with one
drawn; at the end of 1954-55 Hutton’s
England side to these parts easily won
the two Tests played (dismissing N.Z.
in the second innings of the second
Test for 26, the lowest Test-score in
history); in 1955-56, in an N.Z. pro-
gramme of 12 Tests, Pakistan won
two Tests, with the third, practically
washed out, drawn; India won two
Tests, with three drawn; and, with
N.Z. back home to meet West Indies,
the Calypsos won the first three Tests
and N.Z. the fourth —which was
N.Z.’s first-ever Test-win, in its 45th
Test.
* • • ®
In what now appears to be a
reasonably reliable batting line-up
N.Z.’s two stars are left-hander
Sutcliffe and the skipper, John Reid.
Sutcliffe, with his 107, was N.Z.’s
batting star in the second Test. One
or two of his other recent efforts, in
what has been an outstanding batting
career: In the second Test against
South Africa he made 80 not-out
(seven sixes and four fours) with
wickets falling all round him and
after being cracked on the head, and
nearly killed, by fast-bowler Adcock
-—an innings described by Ray Robin-
son, in Green Sprigs, as “the most
thrilling onslaught on Test-bowling
since McCabe took his hook and
cover-drive into retirement.” In the
first Test v. India in 1955-56 Sutcliffe,
in an N.Z. follow-on, saved the game
with a brilliant 137 not-out, and in
the third Test (also drawn) N.Z. was
able to close at 2-450, with Sutcliffe
230 not-out and Reid 119 not-out. It
may be recalled, too, that when N.Z.
played the three southern States on
their way home from South Africa
(Mar., 1954) Sutcliffe made a century
in each game, with Reid also making
a brilliant 160 against Victoria.
“K.R.”: When he played his last
match the other day after 22' years
with Collingwood, burly Keith
Stackpole, former Victorian Shield
batsman and top-line Collingwood
and Fitzroy League footballer, had as
team-mate his 16-year-old son, also
Keith, who was playing with the
First XI for the first time. This is
claimed to be the first time it has
happened in Melbourne district-
cricket. Sydney grade-cricket had a
f ather-and-son combination —Richie
Benaud’s father Lou (not a bad leg-
spinner, either) was still, I think, with
Cumberland firsts when Richie made
his debut.
* * *
“Emel”: They made their
runs faster, or wet wickets
worried them less, in cricket 50
years ago. In a three-day Test
in July, 1902, at Manchester,
the scores, in spite of the usual
Manchester interruptions by
rain, were; Australia, 299 and
86 ; England, 262 and 120. This
victory for Australia by three
runs was the narrowest win in
Test history. Suspense was well
maintained, too; for when
England, with just one wicket
to fall, needed only eight runs
to win, a hailstorm held up play
for threequarters of an hour.
* * *
“Keima”: Elected as Queens-
land’s second rep. on the Aus-
tralian Cricket Board of Control
(in place of the late Jack Burge),
George Lax has managed a
couple of Queensland Shield
teams on the southern tour.
Another aspirant for the post
(his nomination was ruled invalid
on a technicality) was Dr. Otto
Nothling, a former N.S.W. and
Queensland Shield player (he
played one Test, in 1928) and,
as well, was Australia’s Rugby
Union Test fullback in the
’twenties. Nothling was one of
two medicoes (the Victorian
Hartkopf was the other) who,
tried in different Tests during the
1920’5, were both discarded
after only one Test though both
did well with the bat (Hartkopf
80, Nothling 44)—both were
“big-hitters.” However, both
had been selected primarily as
pace-bowlers, and, both failing
with the ball, were not again
picked for Australia.
** * *
“Geeboy”: Following hard
upon John Landy’s retirement
from big-time amateur running,
comes that of his teacher-
colleague from the same city of
Geelong (Vic.), Don Macmillan.
Compared with Landy, Mac-
millan might almost be called an
unknown, yet he has represented
Australia capably in two
Olympics and at two Empire
Games meetings. Rather ironic
that in Mac’s last competition-
race he should beat Landy in a
half-mile event.
* * *
“Geeboy”: Australia’s greatest
hurdler, Ray Weinberg, has
called it a day. Captain of the
1952 Olympic team, Weinberg
would have been a certainty for
the 1956 Olympics but for
eye-trouble, first noticed in the
110-metres hurdles in 1952. He
holds the Australian hurdle-
records for 100 metres, 20
metres, 120yds. and 220yds.
*’ * *
“Abie”: Harry Miller
(B. 13/3/’57) has been mis-
informed about Griffo. The
celebrated punch-dodger sported
a crumpled left ear, but nobody
ever broke his nose. Also, what
were 26,000 spectators doing in
the Stadium “that night” on the
occasion of the Burns-Johnson
disagreement in 1908? The big
fight was held in broad Boxing
Day sunshine.
* * *
“Lyle”: Neither Jack Kramer
nor Pancho Gonzales favors open
tennis - tournaments. Gonzales
remarked: “We as pros would
have everything to lose, and
nothing to gain, in a tournament
that determines a champion by
one result. I can make more
money on tour than I can by
winning an open tourney, or
by taking the risk of losing.”
Kramer reckoned open tourna-
ments would put him out of
business.
* * *
“Veryl”: It will not, I hope,
be considered either unpatriotic
or unAmerican if I wish that the
Davis Cup will soon be won by
some other country—purely as
examples, say Italy, Germany or
Sweden. Not since 1937 has any
other country but Australia or
U.S.A. been in the challenge-
round, and only Australia (or,
as it was in earlier days, Aus-
tralasia), U.S.A., Britain and
France have ever won the Cup.
Only two other countries, Bel-
gium and Japan, have made the
final. It’s time, though, for the
keeping of interest in the Cup
and the all-round good of tennis,
that Britain, Japan or someone
else did make it again, and win.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/18/6
Foreign ...• £3/0/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JOHN RAE late of Gosford
and 18 Tudor Street Surry Hills.—TAKE
NOTICE that MAVIS AGNES RAE has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 803 of
1957 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under S. 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
16th May 1957 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from KEITH
YOUMAN, Solicitor, 29 Bligh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGH AN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JANOS MESZAROS late of Redfern.
—TAKE NOTICE that OLGA MESZAROS
has filed Petition No. 2820 of 1956 for
Divorce on the ground of habitual
drunkenness during three years and up-
wards and cruelty and habitual drunken-
ness during three years and upwards and
habitually leaving the Petitioner without
the means of support If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 6th May 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. C. PAYNTER, Solicitor,
of 107 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
RRISBANE 775
SYDNEY 19?
mm
MELBOURNE4I2
- ...... J/i
830
LAIDE
AD
/z
/i
- 3
m
B
GMH-333
y .
More for your money in style . ..
More for your money
in low cost tool
The graceful flair of long, low lines is only
part of the Holden story. And first price
is only part of Holden thriftiness.
For Holden combines the three things
that make for really low-cost family
motoring. Outstanding petrol eco-
nomy that goes hand in hand with six
cylinder performance and six passenger
comfort. Low operating costs that
result from amazing durability, ease of
maintenance and ready availability of low
cost parts. High resale value that
protects your investment and means big
and longer wheelbase of 105". In easy,
accurate control with the new re-circulat-
ing ball bearing steering. In fact, Holden
gives you more of all the things that
matter most because it is the one car
designed and built for Australia. More
and more people are buying Holden —
latest registration figures prove that in
1956 Holden outsold the next most
popular car model by more than 4 to 1.
Contact your Holden Dealer let a
beautiful new Holden show you that in
performance, comfort and easy handling
savings when the time
comes for you to buy
a new car.
Holden pays dividends
in other ways, too. In
pride of ownership. In
luxurious comfort with
new front suspension
HOLDEN
REGD
as well as in economy,
you get mote for your
money in Australia’s
Own Car. Priced from
£9lO plus tax, Holden
is available on conve-
nient GMAC Hire
Purchase if you wish.
Australia's Own Car
LIST PRICE FROM £9lO PLUS TAX
There are two ‘Air Chief ” Car Radios specially designed for she new Holden
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
Y 228
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Offer wanted for the following
National Geographical Society maps:
Classical Lands of the Mediterranean;
the Pacific Ocean; Central Europe;
Western Europe.—64 Bl.
To buy a set of naval architect’s
proportional compasses.—64B2.
ti Words of the verse that concludes
For he cannot read his tombstone
when he’s dead.” The first verse goes
something like this:
If with pleasure you are viewing
Any work a man is doing,
If you like him or you love him
TeU him now ;
Don’t withhold your approbation
Till the parson makes oration
And he lies with snowy lilies
on his brow. >
—6483,
To buy a horse-drawn landau or
any other type of four-wheel buggy
or old-fashioned single-horse family-
coach. —’6484.
Information Supplied
In reply to the “Does Anybody
Know?” the meaning of the word
“kawanah” (B. 6/3/’57), J. .Wilkin-
son, New Lambton, N.S.W., writes
that in Rex Ingamells’s Australian
Aboriginal Words “kawana” is listed
as meaning wildflowers.
Information Souglht
Does the N.S.W. Department of
Main Roads assist the financing of
council roadworks ? How ?
Yes, the department gives assistance
—as follows: (a) In the County of
Cumberland the department has
responsibility for the full cost of all
works, both maintenance and con-
struction, on the carriageways of main
roads. On declared “secondary”
roads the cost of maintenance and
construction is generally shared
equally by the department and the
councils concerned. Where a council
wants a bridge on a main or
secondary road in the County of
Cumberland provided with a foot-
way the department is usually agree-
able to contribute 50 p.c. of the cost,
“having regard to the benefit to
vehicular traffic.” {b) The department
provides the full cost of works of
both maintenance and construction of
State highways in the country. The
department assists councils financially
on carriageways of other classes of
main roads with the following grants
(on approved cost): (1) For road-con-
struction, road-maintenance and
bridge-maintenance—trunk roads, 75
p.c.; ordinary main roads, 66f p.c.
(2) For bridge-construction—trunk
roads, 100 p.c.; ordinary main roads,
75 p.c. In towns the department’s
responsibility on main roads is
generally limited to a width of 20ft.
(Arrangements for footways are the
same as for the County of
Cumberland.)
* * * *
How best to clip queen-bees ?
Clipping of queen-bees isn’t difficult
if the apiarist is on hand to watch for
swarming, for then the queen may be
picked up, caged and placed in a box
in which the swarm will eventually
settle. In the hive from which they
issued cut out and destroy all but one
of the largest and most advanced
queen-cells. The swarm is re-hived
on a separate stand, and, with queen
removed, may be returned and
reunited in the original hive when the
new queen is laying. Where a con-
stant watch during the swarming-
season cannot be kept, the laborious
method of cutting out queen-cells as
they appear has often to be followed.
It is not a very satisfactory way of
handling the problem, as small cells
on the face of the combs may be over-
looked in the rush, and swarms will
follow. The work may be lessened
if the apiarist is able to judge with
some accuracy the approach of swarm-
ing in a hive.
* * * *
During his career Jack Dempsey
is reputed to have said: “There is no
fighter like a hungry fighter.” Was
this actual quotation? Where and
why did he say it ?
After Jack Dempsey had defeated
Jess Willard on a t.k.o. in round-
three at Toledo, Ohio, on July 4, 1919,
to win the would heavyweight
championship, he was credited with
saying: “There is no lighter like a
hungry one.” Dempsey had fought
savagely, and gave that answer when
an onlooker asked what made him
fight so fiercely. Dempsey always
fought on an empty stomach.
Brief Answers
8.J.C.: We won’t buy into that one,
but there doesn’t seem to be much
scientific substantiation Norque:
(1) The “ringer” is a fast and expert
shearer; the best on the board. The
“snagger” is the shearer with the
lowest tally up. (2) It should be
“hare-bellied,” not “h/ue-bellied”;
a “bare-bellied joe” is a ewe with no
belly-wool Val: Sorry, but can-
not oblige you in either of your
requests. With regard to the
first, suggest you write to N.S.W.
Public Library, Macquarie-slreet,
Sydney; the answer to the second is
that the list is not now being added
to J.P.L.: No trace has ever been
found of it, as far as we know....
M.K.: Try the Queensland Book
Depot, 61-63 Adelaide-street;
McLeod’s Book Store, 107 Elizabeth-
street; or the Phoenix Book Store, 93
Creek-street —all Brisbane. Or, in
Sydney, try Tyrrell’s Pty., Ltd., 202
George-street, and B'erkelouw, 38
King-street 1.M.L.: If you care to
come in to the office, you may con-
sult at your leisure filed copies of
The Bulletin of that period. We will
also try to dig-up for you some facts
on John Whitton 1.M.M.: Regret
we cannot make available copies of
those published items. Such items are
not indexed, and a proper search
through our files these so many years
later would be a wellnigh impossible
task P.W.: A 12-man all-party
joint-House committee, appointed by
the Federal Government last July,
is at present investigating the Con-
stitution with a view to making
changes. Matters being discussed
include inter-State trade, creation of
new States, territorial waters, indus-
trial jurisdiction. The Federal
Attorney-General (Senator O’Sulliyan),
who is chairman of the committee,
recently (12/2/’57) stated that an
interim report would be presented
to Parliament this year, and that
a referendum to amend the Con-
stitution may be held next year
J.R.E.S.: The series of Old Bush
Songs (words and music) appeared
on the “Aboriginalities” pages of
The Bulletin from March 9 to
May 18, 1955, inclusive. Among
those printed were “The Eumerella
Shore,” “Jog Along Till Shearing,”
“Bold Jack Donahoe,” “The Back-
block Shearer” and “The Old Bark
Hut”... .W.H.: You don’t say what
type of compass, but presume it is
the simple pocket or portable kind.
Set or hold it in a perfectly level
position, dial upwards. The needle
will swing round and point to the
magnetic-north, so turn the compass
to bring “north” exactly under the
needle. The pointer now shows the
northern point of the compass:
diametrically opposite is south, with
east and west as shown on the dial
to right and left. The possession of
the compass will not save you from
being lost in the bush, nor tell you
where to go; you must know your
destination in reference to the
compass-points. Its best use is
obtained when a map is consulted
with it; the method of “orienting”
the map in conjunction with the com-
pass requires fuller explanation than
we can give here. If you intend to
make use of it, you should take some
simple lessons from a surveyor or
navigator. .. .X.X.: No information
available on the singer Len Whitman.
A.P. (From the A.J.A.) You
should investigate the rights you sold
in the first place. If they were first
publication,” then you would have
a full claim for your written material.
However, the practice of most pub-
lishers is to acquire Australian rights.
You should also inquire if the original
publisher supplied to the publishers
of the material the subject of the
complaint. Somebody with copies ol
your story may have sold it to a
second publisher, in which case you
and /or the original publisher would
have a claim against the second
publisher, provided it was not copy
within the category of news 8.8.
(Also from the AJ.A.) You should
obtain a written statement from the
newspaper concerned stating that, the
articles are contributed on the basis
of first-publication rights only, and
that all rights to subsequent publica-
tion remain with the author.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
P.T. “The Terrors of Shorthand”
far too 10ng... .G.S.: Ingenious, but
too academic G.J.K.: “The
Mountaineer’s Mate” teetered off the
edge of the table into the w.p.b
S. : Almost 8.D.: Weighed and
found wanting—in development,
presentation and style R.H.L.:
T. in round-one F.M.: We
won’t “print ‘Carrots’ at the earliest
opportunity” or ever A.W.:
Circumlocution rarely appeals....
K.T.E.: Maybe drovers do talk like
that, but not in our pages... .C.C.:
Anaemic 8.E.R.: Yes, but why
waste 1500 words on a minor
character? M.R.A.: “Ode to
Hyphens” compounded D.F.:
Nope A.J.L.: The basket can have
story about coffee-shop philosophers.
O.T.: Perelman does that sort of
thing much better... :T.R.: There’s
a separate basket for irresponsible
country youths who go to Big City
and make good J.D.: Stick to
pharmacy... .B.O’B.: Your poem
“To Snub, my Cat” snubbed
R.P.P.: Try essays elsewhere
A.F.: King’s Cross is surely not
peopled entirely by “lairy longhairs”
and “bearded bohemians”?
N.C.J.: Toa clever... .P.L.0.: Not
clever enough... .M.N.: Moves with
the speed of a sick caterpillar....
C.P.W.: Your native wood-notes are
certainly wild enough to print here:
ODE TO A TRUE AUSTRALIAN
I came from Karoonie on the Nullarbor
Plain,
I came to the goldfields, my fortune to
I seek 11 not the two-up, I haunt not the
I’d rather the ’roo and the witchety-
grub.
And then to the Perse to get. some
“mun,”
Oh! how I wish I had never begun;
I earn four quid they pay me three
And that’s quite enough, says Jim
Murphy.
And so I’m returning to Central Australia
My life on the goldfields has been quite
a failure;
Oh! I’m glad to return to my home in
the prairie
To my nulla and spear, to my mia and
Mary.
....C.Y.F.: Liked the observation in
“Wondecla,” but the verse lacks co-
hesion; “Noonday” passed unevent-
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and tbe contributor must claim
for payment.]
fully; the other hardly a subject for
poetry—not that kind, anyway....
R.8.C.: Nameless verse named —
“Rejected” D.1.F.: “Bagpipes”
drummed-out... .E.D.: “Frustration”
frustrated, but it’s the best of the
three. Either discipline your verse-
form, or try short-stories... .8J.0.:
“Broken Berlin” platitudinous
Geordie: Scotched “The Scots-Aus-
tralian,” but not before standing him
a stiff Australian scotch... .H.S.M.:
“The Outlaw’s Rest” outlawed with
the rest C.J.A.: We’ll take a.
trickle of “Oil for the Lamps of
Belshazzar” :
In Arabia, that far-off distant land,
Where infidels alive are buried in the
sand,
There is a ruler, cruel, absolute and
proud,
Who wears a flowing beard and shroud.
He cares not a jot for his people or their
lives,
Nor for any of his many wives.
His lechery and vice know no bounds.
Nor does his income, believed to annually
be a hundred-million pounds.
From time to time this man gets into
the news,
With his fanatical, undying hatred of the
Jews.
Whenever he does, he shelters under the
moral umbrella
Of being but an instrument for the
almighty win oi imau.
. ...G.F.J.: If young ladies behave
in that manner, our office-boy just
won’t play... .D.P.K.: Slippery Sam
slipped off J.A.U.: You’ve never
been to the Cross R.Q.: Fo^md
“The Head” a heel R.T.Y.:
F0rced....0.P.: Why not just write
her a letter? L.C.M.: Melo-
dramatic. .. .F.D.S.: ‘‘Passion
hasn’t any 1.T.: Races are won
that way—in dreams; not on race-
tracks M.C.G.: Tedious....
W.D.H.: As euphonious as a con-
versation between a bar-fly and a
bottle-oh T.McG.: The sergeants
mess isn’t an ideal setting for that
type of verse... .R.F.J.: “Whispered
and whispered” —then wilted
T.K.W.: “They say my verse has a
zip.” Fasten it, then.. . .S.P.: Can’t
resist a slice of “Nature”: —
Give me the country which I love to
roam,
Those picturesque valleys I really call
home.
The sunshine surrenders and offers to you
Untold beauty of nature so true.
Shrouded by birds all twittering their
songs, . ...
I’m wrapped in amazement at their
melodious tongues;
Then, smiling affectionately, wait for it
to appear—
That greatest condolence, the sunshine
so clear.
H.F.L,: Getting close
S.D.V.: Rollicks along without really
getting anywhere 0.Y.8.: What
would your mother say? K.H.G.:
So guttural that we’re enclosing with
the verse a packet of throat-lozenges.
... .N.M.8.: “Pretty Girl” too, too
refined F.R.D.: Not in the market
for that brand of blood-and-thunder.


CHATEAU TANUNDA
l
Stories of the Coastal Lights No. 3
»
i
I
m
■
I ip
Cape Byron
Cape Byron is the site of one of our best-known lighthouses.
Standing on a bold rocky headland with a precipitous cliff
on the east side which has a sheer drop of more than 300 ft.,
it is not only the most easterly light in New South Wales,
but one of the most powerful.
It is approached by a road from the town of Byron Bay
which skirts a magnificent panorama of wild coastline.
The lighthouse was built at a cost of a little over £ 13,000
and came into use on Dec. 1, 1901. The original light was
white dioptric—i.e., a light passed through a lens —of 145,000
candle power, showing one flash every five seconds. Later,
it was strengthened to 500,000 candle power by the use of
vaporised kerosene, and in 1922 it was increased to 1,000,000
candle power.
The optic apparatus weighs eight tons and floats in a
circular trough containing 7 cwt. of mercury. The motive
power behind the light is the same principle as that of a
grandfather clock.
The light is 371 ft. above high water and is visible 26 miles
in clear weather. It shines from a circular concrete tower
60 ft. high. When this tower was built, the foundations
were set eight feet below the ground, providing space for a
water tank of 3,000 gallons capacity.
A subsidiary red light of 200 candle power is also shown
from the tower; it covers the dangerous Juan and Julia
Rocks.
The Cape Byron light was to have been opened on Satur-
day, November 30, 1901, but owing to rough weather the
steamer Victoria, on which the Premier the Hon. John See
and some of his colleagues were travelling from Sydney, did
not arrive on time. Because of this delay, the lighthouse
was opened on Sunday, December 1, William Warren was
the first head keeper at Cape Byron.
Cape Byron light is one of 10 manned lighthouses on the
N.S.W. coast. Its position is latitude 28° 38' south, longi-
tude 153° 38' east, 360 miles north of Sydney.
There’s Safety in the quality of
CHATEAU TANUNDA
offie ojf
• •
N.S.W. Agents
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 119 years
CL3!
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BRITISH DEFENCE CUTS
BRITAIN’S proposed defence-
cuts, which are worrying the
countries of Western Europe
and General Norstad, Supreme
Commander of the Allied
Powers in Europe, are, in the
editorial view of New York
“Herald Tribune,” being forced
upon the U.K. because “its
present economic position does
not permit it to maintain a
military establishment which
costs about 9 per cent, of its
gross pational product”:
“So it is going to cut down
its armed forces, both at home
and abroad, by 65,500 men. The
official reasoning is that by
reducing taxation for defence
purposes the country will
eventually become stronger be-
cause more money can be put
into investments and industry.
“Of the 65,500 men to be
returned to civilian life, 42,000
will come from the Army, 6500
from the Navy and 17,000 from
the Air Force. And since 30,000
of the total will be withdrawn
from Germany, the decision is
naturally of great concern to
Nato.
“General Norstad, the
Supreme Allied Commander in
Europe, has already expressed
his worries about this reduction
in the number of men available
to defend the free nations on
the Continent. But the British
plan is to maintain the same
number of divisions —four —in
West Germany by streamlining
them and increasing the fire-
power. Furthermore, the with-
drawals are to be spaced over a
two-year period. This will allow
time for the West German Army
now being formed to fill part
of the gap.”
British press comment:
London ‘‘Financial Times”:
“The central fact which Britain
i s now putting to her allies both
in W.E.U. [Western European
Union] and in Nato is that this
country has been saddled with
a grossly disproportionate share
of the cost of defending the
Western world for far too long,
The matter is urgent not because
of any short-term crisis in
HALL' OF FAME
—London “Daily Express”
Britain’s affairs which might be
significantly eased by reducing
the armed forces by a few
thousand more. The urgency
lies in the need to overcome the
long-term process of economic
atrophy that has overtaken this
country, partly, at any rate,
because of a £ 1500-million
annual contribution to Western
defence.
“When Britain undertook this
burden in the early nineteen-
fifties, it was unfair but unavoid-
able. There was no one else
in Western Eurdpe with the men
or the economic potential
required to do the job. But
circumstances have changed
dramatically since 1950-
51. Those who were too poor to
contribute then, now have large
currency reserves and a big pro-
ductive capacity created by a
process of intensive investment,
which Britain herself has had
to forgo.
“The reductio ad absurdum
of the whole arrangement is
seen in the demand that Britain
should now, with her weakened
gold-reserve, pay Germany the
many millions of Deutsche-
marks that have to be spent to
support the British garrison
there.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail”: “In
1954 we [Britain] promised to
maintain in Germany for 44
years four divisions of troops
and an Air Force —‘or other
such forces as the Supreme
Allied Commander, Europe,
regards as having equivalent
fighting-capacity.’
“Now we are contemplating
a reduction in this force of
about one-third. We under-
took not to do this against the
wishes of our European allies.
They strongly oppose it. Why,
then, are we going through with
it?
“Well —there are two escape-
clauses. The first releases us
from our bond ‘in the event of
an acute oversea emergency.’
We cannot plead that —in spite
of Suez.
“The second says (hat if the
maintenance of our forces
throws too great a strain on our
finances the matter should be
reviewed by the North Atlantic
Council.”
• • • •'
The same: “Four divisions
for 44 years, we said. But then
we added ‘or other such forces
. . . having equivalent fighting-
capacity.’
“Those words are of para-
mount importance. They enable
us to change the shape and for-
mation of our defence-effort,
so long as its fighting-power is
not weakened.
“That is exactly what we
propose. We are moving into
an age when one atomic cannon
could be more lethal than an
army corps.”
* * *
London “Economist”: “Even
if the other members do not
appropriate the British argu-
ments about economic difficul-
ties for their own use* in
whittling-down their own forces,
the awkward fact remains that
the size of the Rhine Army is
important in ensuring that the
powerful German contribution
that has been promised does not
dominate the forces at Nato’s
disposal. Unexpected as it was
that the German Foreign
Minister, Herr von Brentano,
should have made himself the
spokesman of this particular
view, the view has cogency ; it
was the basic reason for the
original British pledge. Even if
this question is left aside, there
is real fear of having, not a
shield, but merely a tripwire
between Western Europe and the
Russians.”
* * *
London “New Statesman”:
“Britain has a strong case [for
reduced forces], both because
she is on the verge of becoming
a nuclear power—which makes
her contribution out of all pro-
portion to those of her European
allies —and because her defence
expenditure, as a proportion of
national income, is as high as
9.3 per cent. (The others average
5.3 per cent.) She can also
argue that the support-cost
problem is still unsolved, and
that it is unlikely that Germany
will be willing to pay more than
£4O-million for the current
year. On the other hand, Nato is
only halfway to the original
target of 30 divisions: there are
five U.S., four U.K., three small
Belgian, one Dutch, one small
French, and Danish and
Canadian groups of brigade-
strength.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“General Norstad, the Supreme
Allied Commander, thinks our
proposals unrealistic, and his
views are known to W.E.U. He
believes, as does Dr. Adenauer,
that the most likely threat to
free Europe will be of a kind
to be resisted in Germany by
adequate conventional forces.
He believes, too —and many
share this view—that out-and-
out reliance on nuclear weapons
is politically dangerous. The
weaker the shield of conven-
tional forces the more likely it
is that Nato will confront the
dreadful necessity of ordering
nuclear counter-attacks against
enemy troops on soil it is
pledged to defend.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian”: “It
is no use pretending that this
does not mean a diminished
battle-strength. General Norstad
has rightly said that it cannot
be explained away by saying
that missiles will give the troops
extra fire-power; the presence
of the missiles and other new
weapons had already been
assumed in the 1954 calculations
on strengths needed in Germany,
and the reorganisation of divi-
sions to provide an effective
basis for fighting with these
missiles has only just taken
place. Now it is largely to be
undone.
“From the British side there
is, however, a sound reply—
though the Government seems
to have been reluctant to make
it publicly. It is that the strengths
projected in 1954 have never
been reached, chiefly through
the difficulty Continental coun-
tries have found in filling their
quota, and that now they never
will be reached.
“Therefore, since the kind of
screen envisaged then cannot be
built-up to protect Western
Europe, a fresh strategy needs
to be devised. This, whether we
like it or not, must rely chiefly
on the deterrent effect of long-
range bombardment. Large
ground-forces in Europe no
longer have a vital part to play.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “As
France has had to withdraw
forces for North Africa, she is
not in a good position to argue
that British forces must stay in
Europe. Germany, for her part,
has been so ungenerous in the
matter of support-costs that she
cannot make out a convincing
case against a diminution of
Britain’s burden. Her own
force will not be ready to play
a full part in the defence of
Western Europe for some time,
and she will press for delay in
the application of Britain’s
defence economies.”
A Bill For Nasser
London “Daily Telegraph”
accounting of British claims
against Nasser:
“These go back to long before
the nationalisation of the Suez
Canal. The Egyptian Govern-
ment, for example, has not yet
paid a farthing of compensation
to the British nationals it dis-
missed as long ago as 1951. It
admits the debt, but does not
honor it.
“Compared with the immense
damage done to this country
[B rita i n] by the wrongful
nationalisation of the canal, for
which, incidentally, the Suez
Canal Company has not been
paid a penny, this is indeed only
a piece of petty bilking. But it
set the pattern, which Egypt has
faithfully followed and expanded.
“Then there is the flagrantly
illegal sequestration of British
assets in Egypt. The sum involved
here runs to nearly £4O million.
“If it comes to adding up the
cost to this country [Britain],
and many other countries as
well, of the closing of the canal
and the present unnecessary
delays in clearing it, the bill to
be presented to Colonel Nasser
is altogether astronomical.
“It goes without saying that
it will never be paid in whole.”
Suez
In his post-mortem on Suez,
M. Georges-Picot, director-
general of the Suez Canal
Company, attributed some of the
responsibility for the debacle to
defects in Anglo-French political
policies in the Middle East, and
to the failure of the company
itself to establish a satisfactory
relationship with the Egyptians
—the Egyptian Government had
too small a stake in the business,
with the result that Colonel
Nasser had no inhibitions about
wrecking it.
Comment ing, London
“Financial Times” notes that
“M. Georges-Picot seemed to
suggest that this attitude towards
Egypt was only one aspect
of a more deep-seated policy,
which affected all those
shareholders who hoped to
make some profit out of the
company. Their interests were
always regarded much less than
the interests of world-shipping
using the canal. It was not only
the Egyptian Government, but
the company’s Ordinary share-
holders in general who suffered
by the policy of keeping both
canal-dues and dividends low.
The director-general did not
suggest that this was the decisive
reason for the breakdown of
the company’s relations with the
Egyptian Government, but he
believed that it contributed
towards it.
“The other factor which he
stressed probably has rather
greater importance. This was the
lack of any obvious and
immediate alternative to the
canal which would set a ceiling
to Colonel Nasser’s bargaining
demands. Such an alternative is
now beginning to emerge.
“Part of it lies in the creation
of a fleet of giant tankers. Part
of it consists in the exploitation
of other sources of supply not


Between
Ourselves
iVL£
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
F*aUi in tf ic
Fuluj*c
Right down the ages, the greatest sources of
human progress have been those areas of Earth
where rivers flow or lakes occur. Water has ever
been the key to Man’s prosperous settlement.
We need only look at the course of our own
Australian expansion to see the truth of that; and
I believe that the peak of this country’s richness
will be reached when water can be brought for the
shedding upon our belts of lower rainfall.
That time may not be so distant.
The Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research Organisation has been conducting tests
in rain-making at Carnarvon (W.A.). It is working
on the theory that rain is induced by the presence
in the atmosphere of ice-forming particles thrown
out by meteor showers, and that similar particles
could be used for the “seeding” of clouds.
To this branch of research Australian scientists
are making a world contribution.
Now we learn from America of advances the
University of California has recorded in the
conversion of ocean water into fresh.
Professor Everett D. Howe, director of the
Californian project, says that within ten years fresh
water from the sea will be produced cheaply
enough to be used for drinking supplies, for
industrial purposes, and for irrigation.
The most economical of several methods now
being tried is one in which warm sea water is
distilled at low pressure and passed through a
turbine. It generates power, and becomes fresh
in the process.
The outcome of these experiments will have
a tremendous bearing on the bringing of water
deep into this continent.
Let us not doubt it. For more than half a
century water has been pumped 350 miles from
Mundaring, near Perth, to the Western Australian
goldfields.
The Mundaring pipeline was laid long before
the atom age; before surpassing performances in
science and engineering widened all our sweeps of
what the Future holds possible.
y
—New York “Herald Tribune”
THE IDES OF MARCH
dependent on the Suez route.
The comparative ease with which
the resources of the Western
Hemisphere have been mobilised
to supply Europe is a lesson
which will not be easily
forgotten.
“The trouble is that the process
of teaching this lesson means
the loss of considerable amounts
of foreign-exchange earnings by
Britain in particular. This
country’s interests will be best
served in the long run by the
use of alternative methods of
transport—giant tankers round
the Cape or a pipeline from
Akaba to the Mediterranean,
avoiding Egyptian territory-
rather than by the creation of
alternative sources of supply.”
West New Guinea
Indonesian efforts to bring
United Nations influence to bear
in transferring West New Guinea
from Dutch to Indonesian
sovereignty were peppered with
such phrases as “colonial
bondage,” “a problem of
freedom versus colonialism” and
“all the inherent and typical
characteristics of colonial oppres-
sion and the suppressions neces-
sary to maintain it.”
All of which drew the editorial
comment from “New York
Times” that “an entirely objec-
tive, impartial and non-political
body of investigators could shed
much light on the problem of
New Guinea”:
“For one thing, they would
certainly reveal the fact that the
issue, far from being ‘colonialism’
versus ‘freedom,’ was nothing of
the sort. ‘Colonialism’ is merely
a good whipping-boy designed
for anti-Dutch feeling in Indo-
nesia in particular and anti-
colonial feeling among the
'Bandoeng group’ in general.
“The Papuans on New Guinea
are ethnically completely
different from the Indonesians.
They have expressed no desire
to be joined with their neighbors
or to be ruled by them. The
differences in languages—there
are several hundred in New
Guinea —and in behavior-
patterns, stages of development,
religions, and social and political
selfconsciousness will not be
bridged by a Javanese assump-
tion of sovereignty. Moreover,
the Indonesian talk about
‘freedom’ for New Guinea has
a strange ring in the face of the
rigidity with which the Javanese
have set their face against local
autonomy.
“These, however, are merely
peripheral issues. What really
matters is the ultimate welfare
of the Papuans themselves and
their own ultimate political
desires and aims. There is an
immense job to be done here in
an immensely complex field. The
Dutch have made a good start
on it. It may be desirable, in
time, to change the ‘colony’ to a
Trust territory, or to make some
other political disposition. But
to make it, now, a colony of
Djakarta will solve neither the
immediate problems nor the
long-range ones. Humane con-
siderations, rather than political
slogans, should be the final basis
for judgment.”
Opportunity State?
One item given conspicuous
notice by a team of nine British
engineers who visited Russia —
and also noted by New York
“Herald Tribune” writer Joseph
Alsop, who is currently turning-
in some excellent first-hand
reports on the U.S.S.R. —is the
extent to which the Soviet has
gone to produce the engineers
it needs for its industrial develop-
ment.
“Engineering - t e a c h i n g,”
comments London “News
Chronicle,” “is now Russia’s
highest-paid profession. With
complete exemption from
military service for students, with
high salaries raised another 50
per cent, for research-work, with
car-, housing- and holiday-
priorities, it is no surprise that
there are more than three appli-
cations for every vacancy.
“Nor should it be a shock that
as a result of this policy Russia
is training 65,000 engineers a
year compared with Britain’s
total of 5000. Even allowing
for the great difference in
population this is still three times
Britain’s rate.
“By making the highest posts
extremely well paid, Russia has
made it worth while for
students, from an equal start, to
reach the top. The principle of
differentials is accepted in full.
“While Britain still pants after
the mirage of equality, which
deadens ambitions and forces
technicians to head the
emigration-queues, Russia goes
ahead as the Opportunity State.”
Touching on the same subject,
"Yorkshire Post” adds that “the
problem of the engineers is only
one aspect of the wider problem
of the technologists in this
country [Britain]”:
“The outlook is in one respect
propitious. In five or 10 years
an exceptionally large number of
children, born during the ‘birth-
rate bulge’ of the 19405, will be
entering work or going to higher
education. They have had un-
precedented advantages in the
way of food, health-services and
education: they may be expected
to prove specially valuable to
the nation. It is therefore
particularly important that their
abilities shall not be wasted.
They are wanted in engineering,
in technology, in the professions.
Can we be sure that they will
go there?
“The answer is that we cannot
be sure. Conditions being what
they are, a certain number (not
necessarily very big, but in any
event bigger than we can afford)
will drift off to less exacting
and in many instances not much
less remunerative work. That is
how taxation works nowadays.
It is what any good Communist
would note down as a typical
contradiction: we want able
people for important jobs and
yet we do not take the steps
needed to get them there.
“The remedy is simple in
theory and not too hard in
practice. It is to lower the tax-
burden until the exceptional man
or woman can earn an excep-
tional income. The cost in
terms of revenue would be
slight and the gain to the nation
would be substantial. There is
probably no single measure
better calculated to raise the
nation’s prosperity ; nor is there
a more equitable one.”
Hardly Cricket!
Commenting on the proposals
of the special M.C.C. committee
set up to inquire into the future
of first-class cricket, “Man-
chester Guardian” notes “one
remarkable admission”:
“Among its [the committee’s]
recommendations is one that the
first innings of each side should
be limited to 85 overs apiece so
as to encourage attacking play
on the first day. It is followed,
however, by a statement that:
“ ‘The committee fully realised
that the proposed limitation of
overs could be exploited and its
object defeated by even more
negative bowling-tactics; and
that it cannot succeed unless
county committees through their
captains insist upon the purpose
of the experiment being pursued
in the right spirit.’
“The committee might just as
well have said that there would
have been no need for its
existence if county cricket had
been played in the proper spirit,
and that its only important
recommendation was that
counties should adopt an attack-
ing spirit.
“When any game is suffering
from the sort of malady that
has emptied county cricket-
grounds, tinkering with the laws
rarely is the answer. As fast as
the reformers think they have
baffled the cunning players they
find that the latter are in fact
even deeper thinkers and soon
contrive a way to rearrange their
defences in the new light.
“Mr. Stuart Surridge, captain
of the Surrey team which has
won the county-cricket
championship for the last five
years by splendid attacking
cricket, has most pertinently
said in a letter to the ‘Sunday
Times’ that the game rests largely
in the hands of the captain and
that there is very little wrong
with cricket that a captain
cannot attend to.”
In further comment, London
“Economist” points out that
“cricket, like the cotton-industry,
is never what it was; and one
has an awful suspicion that the
august committee which reported
to the Marylebone Cricket Club
has merely followed the example
of other committees of inquiry
into declining industries by
searching too keenly for scape-
goats and for gadgety counters
>° wa“en tei
d dom inate’ball, it was
attendances were
f first . dass matches
became people were tired of too
many high-scoring drawn games,
NoWj when ball tends to
dominate bat and when drawn
( exC ept in wet summers)
are fortunately less common, it
1S said that attend ances are
falling because people like to
** b “ tin * bowlers at
a high scoring-rate aU round the
c ■ .
On the committees hope that
the 85-over limit ‘ would induce
batsmen to hit out, the
“Economist” adds that, instead,
it might merely make bowlers
bowl tight ( bes ides killing the
W-spinner, who can delight a
crowd by buying his wickets
q U i c ki y but dearly).
“The committee’s answer to
these fears appears to be to
assume that the only (because
the easiest) form of defensive
bowling is bowling at and out-
side the leg-stump ; it proposes
number and placing 1
on “en ‘
Career”ome“f the very
bowlers (including the best off-
break bowlers) who have been
most responsible for the hearten-
ing resurgence of ball over bat
since the war.
“There is,” the “Economist”
concludes, “always a temptation
f or middle-aged men to thmk
that attendances have fallen
because the young men of today
do not play cricket as brightly
as they themselves used to. do.
But it is not really surpnstng
tba lbc wa; V a ; or t
county matches is Ios ™8 support
in the social and economic cii-
cumstances of today , it is
that mterest in lest-maicnes,
the receipts from which largely
keep the counties solvent, is at
a peak. The remedy for the
counties is surely not to think
up new gimmicks to encourage
-supposedly brighter cricket, but
to have a more intriguing
fixture-list at more attractive
times—and to play all their
games more adventurously.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Delayed Justice
The dubious tradition that surrounds
the processes of law with delay and
exasperation is perfectly illustrated in
Victoria, where each year hundreds of
litigants are finding truth in the
maxim, “justice delayed is often justice
denied.” •
At any time during the year the list
for one month’s schedule would include
some 300-odd civil jury-actions, 150-200
actions in the cause-list, more than 400
undefended and 60-100 defended divorce-
suits and several dozen miscellaneous
cases.
Add criminal-trials and criminal-
appeals to this formidable programme
and it is no surprise that 11 Supreme
Court judges can never dispose of the
work on time. The result is that some
cases are of necessity deferred month by
month from one list to another or settled
by consent of the parties.
The costly delay and its attendant
frustration is felt most in “running-
down” (road-accident) claims. These
have increased rapidly since the war,
and it is not uncommon to find some
such cases two years old before they
finally come into court. The havoc the
time-lag plays with a witness’s memory
can readily be imagined.
The monthly change of jurisdiction is
in itself a source of delay. It is, for
example, pointless for a judge to begin
hearing a four-day case on June 30 when,
on July 1, he wall be acting in divorce,
crime or some other jurisdiction. The
case must go over to the July list or a
later one and be taken by another judge.
In Victoria the practice of a judge sitting
in several jurisdictions might create a
competent “jack -of - all - trades” and
prevent a narrow approach to law, but
it does nothing for speedy justice.
In the face of all this a fair propor-
tion of litigants settle their cases in or
out of court, not infrequently against
their better judgment. In 1954 —and the
position has not materially improved—
Mr. Justice Sholl declared: “I believe it
is only the large number of settled cases
which prevents a serious scandal and
undoubtedly some proportion of those
settlements come about through the delay
in getting to trial.”
First steps in reform should surely
provide more judges and courts, shorten
"Having got my junior certificate, I feel entitled to a life
of my own, Mum.”
the time between case-initiation and its
appearance in court, and lengthen the
court’s actual working-day. Four-and-a-
half hours a day is hardly realistic in
view of the problem.— Xavier (Vic.).
Courts-martial
If there were any way of assessing
how many cases of injustice had been
inflicted by courts-martial due to
inefficient defending-officers, we could
gain some idea of the value of New
Zealand’s legislation, as explained by
“M.S.N.” (B. 6/3/757).
In the A.M.F. during the last show
courts-martial were so numerous as to
warrant the appointment at State head-
quarters and field-formations of officers
with the title Permanent President of
Courts-martial. One officer was a
farmer in civil life, and if other
appointees were chosen with equal care,
how much thought was given to the
appointment of mere defending-officers?
No combatant officer was safe from
nomination for this chore,'"'regardless of
his qualifications, his inclinations, or his
ability, and I know that in most cases
the job was not received with much
enthusiasm.
According to the 1941 (Australian)
edition of The Manual of Military Law
(Chap. V) the accused can himself
arrange for the services of counsel to
represent him, but if he does not do so
and the prosecution obtains counsel, he
must be given another opportunity. It
is also the duty of the convening authority
to use “his best endeavors to secure the
services of a suitable officer.” That
reads nicely in print, but the “best efforts”
in many cases didn’t amount to much.
It is further laid-down in the same
authority that defending-officers have the
same functions, rights and duties as
officers for the prosecution; the latter,
however, always seemed to be legal men
who could easily dispose of uninformed
“nominated” defence.
If New Zealand can introduce such
a progressive change, there’s certaintly
plenty of scope for similar alterations in
the Australian system. Kjemberry
(A.C.T.).
Bell’s Melbourne Trams
Melbourne’s former tram-chief Hector
Hercules Bell was as conscious of his
public-relations as of keeping his trams
moving. Whereas most p.-r« men in
Australia today seem to revel in telling
everybody the good they are doing, Bell
did not seek publicity. Indeed he shunned
it. Most of the publicity he did receive
was from the minority who seemed
obsessed with criticising whatever he did.
“Rigel” (B. 9/1 /’57) claims that Bell
ruined the good relations between the
Tramways Board and the public that
existed in the cable-tram era. But, on
closer study of the city’s trams in the post-
war decade, it is clear that his policy of
sticking to trams and extending their
routes is paying-off handsomely.
Naturally, after the war, trams were
overcrowded, as there had been little
capital expenditure for about five years.
Seeing these trams were so overcrowded
in the city, Bell planned two alternative
routes and fought hard to pilot them
through the Public Works Committee.
The first was the route along William-
street, providing an alternative for the
Swanston-street and St. Kilda-road traffic,
the second was the Latrobe-street line,
easing the Collins-street line. Even after
Bell had received the green-light from the
Public Works Committee for both
projects the critics were still voluble.
. ££e stuck to his guns and went ahead
w^tb the two lines. For a while they
were poorly patronised and did not pay
their way. But the expansion of the big
business-houses to the outer streets of
the city proper (which Bell had planned
for) later gave them the loads which
today make them pay and ease the burden
on the routes they more-or-less duplicate.
Latest organisation to build on the
Latrobe-street line is 1.'C.1.A.N.Z., whose
1500 office-workers will, no doubt, place
an even greater burden on the trams
which, until only a year ago, were hardly
ever full except in peak-hours.
Bell’s public-relations went well
beyond these two lines. He’d come up
the hard way and made his money the
hard way as a cartage-contractor in
Richmond. Years on the Richmond
Council, the majority of it as the council’s
Public Works Committee chairman (he
E a
£"V„ , ' “ ' * he . " r
ZS "£
hfconc h ved l T th0 d m T f mWayS u TrU *P’
r ’7 ld f ° £ a S? rk “5”
m r rkl ? g seople5 e0pIe
to travel there by tram at weekends
Ihe square-mile of Wattle Park today
is perhaps one of Melbourne s best-
appointed parks; it was bought by the
Hawthorn I rust for a song and trans-
tened to the Melbourne Tramways Board
on its creation. The park was one of
Bell’s hobbies for years, yet very few
people realise what he put into it in effort
an planning. When an old cable-tram
n e ?i°K demolished m Fitzroy,
BeH had his men salvage all the wood,
w TlCk L to f ? ke a - I chalet at
Wattle Park. This chalet, with a com-
mandmg view of Melbourne, h a s & n oid-
world charm all its own, and bookings
for social functions there must often be
made up to 12 months in advance.
All around this park there are
reminders to all who knew him that Bell
7 e i the t aCC ' ome y ears ago members
of the Tramways Board wanted to
rename it Bell Park, but the chairman
wasn’t having any. His reward, so he
told me at the time, was to see the
hundreds of happy families enjoying
themselves, “even if they came by car®
Right up to his retirement he was
RYtf.nHmß u , OTr
experimenting with planting Special gums
<•5 , , 6 ~ , F , 6 K , f .
o or t h e e i l f nr W^l ' h r^ZT ed t 0 brmS
, '.
Its obsolete tramway-equipment was
rely so d. Bell had a host of friends in
technical schools who were always ready
o put it to good use. Melbourne s host
of tramway enthusiasts and historians
were always welcome even to the run-
mg of a special Sunday tram for them
to further their interests.
In recent years, since Bell’s retirement,
public-relations has been accepted by
management as one of the essential plat-
forms to successful trading, and one of
the many duties of the p.-r. man is the
“open house”—the factory open to the
public, with staff conducting them around
and explaining various processes,
machines, etc. Bell had an “open house”
at his Preston workshops for years. Each
visitor was shown as much as time would
allow, and business organisations, schools
and tramway enthusiasts all paid regular
visits .to this modern workshop.
All in all, Bell left the Melbourne Tram-
ways a much more efficient organisation
than when he first joined, due to a sound
public-relations programme he planned
and personally supervised. For four years
I called on “the old man” almost daily
when covering western rounds for a Mel-
bourne daily. Naturally we had our
arguments (many of them heated, because
Bell didn’t like the press knowing too
much), but the'four roundsmen thought
so much of him they made him a
presentation on his retirement.
Now in his late 70’s Bell is fit and well,
a delightful/conversationalist; and still as
adamant as ever that Melbourne was
planned for trams, and trams it will be.
—Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Wage-tax Deductions
Working for the Government as an
unpaid tax-collector is an imposition and
a headache
Consider ' the ve ge, a ble-grower. Ia
seas ™ he B rows - f " a fe *
acres of French-beans and his neighbors
Z" St
or fhree, but a small amy of them. They
take on anyone who offers-man, woman
Of child. They may be seasonal workers
dweUing 0D t y his or they may be
casuals from the nearest township. What
j s practically certain is that only a pro-
portion will work continuously for the
one employer; the others will move
aro und from farm to farm as the picking
o g ers
xhe permanent worker is no worry,
He is paid wee kly, and the appropriate
wa g e-tax* deducted from his earnings. The
casuals are a different matter, having to
be id daily because tomor row they
may choose to work elsewhere.
But the Taxation Commissioner insists
that wage -t a x be deducted from their
eara ings. To begin with, this means coax-
ing them to produce dependants’ declara-
tion-forms—if they have dependants and
are taxed j n f u u they howl mightily. Then
tax-stamps and books must be got from
t he post-office. Finally, how much tax
should be levied?
a
-^° r sak< “) sim Phcity, t k
f ic without dependants earning £5
ay T Say ’ for working-week of
w d a y s. He 11 probably work seven days,
bu A.|' or § et l£ rhe tax on £^s £3 ys ‘< A
The grower for whom he has worked
? at h fir ? day d ° es " ot know wk,etl ? er b fj?
be back or not. He can sav to himself,
“So far as I’m concerned at the moment,
this picker has earned five-pounds a week,
and the tax is two -shillings. If he does
come back tomorrow, his rate will rise
to ten . p ounds a week, on which the tax
w j d be e leven-and-sixpence, less the two-
bob I’ve already deducted.” And so forth,
Ifs quite a job to keep the necessa ry
reCQrds if a do zen pickers are concerned,
an d particularly when a really good
picker is likely to change masters as often
a $ possible in the hope of avoiding some
tax.
fhe other method is probably simpler
a nd more equitable, except in the case of
the picker who does only work for a
single day. The grower says to himself,
“Five-pounds a day is twenty-five a week,
Tax, three-pound-seven. One-fifth is
thirteen-and-fivepence. Near enough.”
To an accountant, these calculations
would be child’s-play. To a harassed
f ar mer they’re a nightmare.—Taxsick
(N.S.W.).
? —■
Age
“No Sirrah” (B. 6/3/’57) says that the
shorter working-week is a good thing, as
it gives the worker a chance to develop
outside interests and to indulge his
hobbies. That sounds all right, but hov?


Another reason for Fordson Major's better value ...
6-SPEED TRANSMISSION
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
TO WILLIAM JOHN CRAWFORD for-
merly of Melbourne in the State of Vic-
toria Truck Driver but whose present
whereabouts are unknown. —T A K E
NOTICE that your wife DOREEN AGNES
CRAWFORD has commenced an action
No. 239 of 1957 against you for the dis-
solution of her marriage with you on the
ground of desertion without cause for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend this action you may enter an
appearance in the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane within
Thirty-seven days from the date of the
publication hereof You may obtain with-
out charge a copy of the Writ of
Summons and Petition from R. R.
STEPHENS & SHEPHERDSON, Soli-
citors, 113-115 Queen Street, Brisbane. —
L. CHRIS I'OPIIERSON, Second Deputy
Registrar.
LONGER LIFE/LOWER
FRICTIONAL LOSS
From heayy-duty crown wheel and
spur reduction gear to toughened
half shafts, rear end drive is built to
last longer and apply more power.
SAVES TIME, FUEL
AND ENGINE WEAR
This sturdy constant-mesh gear box
has 6 forward and 2 reverse speeds
giving right gear for every job
whether it’s downright extra power
effort or cruising. The result is faster,
surer manoeuvering and reduction of
power waste and wear and tear
through matching economical engine
speed with desired land speed.
SMOOTH TAKE-UP
OF LOAD
With a large frictional area of 123.75
sq. ins. and nine pressure springs,
the 11 in. diameter clutch takes up
smoothly the high torque provided
by Fordson Major’s power-packed,
tractor-designed Diesel engine. It is
-light to operate, non-slipping in
longest pull and has extraordinary
resistance to road-shocks.
FORDSOIU
MAJOR
Harder working and better
buying are the reasons why
Australian farmers use
more Fordsons
than any
other tractor.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
b
Q
w
m
■iV*
>5
Ffvt2BB-60
tif:^
.
vC
SEE YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
CC*ME I N AND SEE
niany workers can pay their way
by working a 40-hour week?
A New Australian who was
awarded £3500 damages on a
claim for industrial injury put
it bluntly. He said he could no
longer work a 60-hour week and
that, as a result, his weekly
earnings of £2B had been nearly
halved.
An investigation by. one of
those committees which the
Government is so fond of
appointing would probably find
that more Australians work
longer hours than ever before.
Jobs are constantly being
advertised with overtime as an
extra lure. Tradesmen who work
40 hours for “the boss” also
put in long hours on their own
account so that the various h.-p.
instalments and other liabilities
attached to gracious living can
be met. It’s when all this over-
time business cuts-out (if it ever
does) that the h.-p. companies
will start having some real
worries.
All sorts of commitments are
undertaken by the workers,
including house-purchase, on the
assumption that extra v\ork and
overtime will go on for ever.
It’s a gamble which they and the
h.-p. companies are prepared to
indulge in.
If today’s man of 65 is as
bright and energetic as a man
of 55 was some decades ago, he
should be available to the labor-
force, and doubtless would be
only too glad to take-on a part-
time job to help fill-in his retire-
ment, but the means-test, which
limits his total income to not
more than £l5 a week, including
the age-pension, must be keeping
many thousands of men in idle-
ness. It’s no use telling them
they should not take the pension
until they actually need it. They
believe that they are entitled to
it on reaching 65, having con-
tributed to social-service funds
during their working-lives. —
Ceg (Vic.).
Television
Gloomy forebodings about the
disconcerting effects of TV have
so far proved premature. In
spite of the increasing number
of Sydney and Melbourne homes
and institutions which are
equipped with sets, TV shows no
signs of disorganising normal
ho m e-1 if e, disaffecting the
healthy activities of children, or
causing people who have sets to
be unduly haunted by neighbors
and friends who have not.
Granted that programmes are
still mediocre, but Australians
certainly haven’t “gone bald-
headed” for TV as happened in
America and parts of industrial
England. In fact, there are no
indications yet (as there are in
the U.S.) that good films at local
theatres are likely to lose many
patrons to the counter-attraction
of the little screen —not, at any
rate, until present costs fall to
fit ordinary pockets.—P.O.M.C.
(N.S.W.).
W.A. Drydocking
When the Italian migrant-ship
Flaminia needed dry docking and
repairs in Fremantle the migrants
had to be flown east, while the
ship sailed to Singapore.
Fremantle, a regular call for
large liners, with the prospect
of 40,000-tonners, has no dry-
docking facilities other than a
small slipway. Singapore or
Sydney are roughly as far away
as is New York from London.
Westralian Government ships
which need docking load for
Darwin and then sail in ballast
to Brisbane—an awful waste of
Westralian taxpayers’ money.
A large dock could be built in
Cockburn Sound. There might
be obstacles, but wars have
p roV ed that there is no such
word as “can’t” in the civil-
engineer’s dictionary. In peace
or war such a dock would be
0 f tremendous advantage to
merchant and naval tonnage. It
could be financed from defence-
estimates, and then refund its
CO st from merchant-shipping
usa ge.
w A has no steel for large
re p a j rs> but n.s.W. has it, and
a num ber of coastal ships are
i a jd_ U p f or Q f cargo;
seamen and wharfies are unem-
pi 0 y ec j i n large numbers. Dry-
construction and subse-
q Uen t business would ease
Westralia’s unemployment, im-
p roV e the State’s revenue and
offer greater security for ships in
hazard.— Tackline S (N.S.W.).
„ . ~ p .
Preserving the Past
In the present boom of city
building, with old structures
being demolished to make way
for modem towers of concrete,
steel and glass, the need for
preserving the best and most
typical buildings of earlier eras
deserves far more thought than
it is receiving.
On this subject, Professor
Brian Lewis, Professor of
Architecture at the University of
Melbourne, said: “We would be
fools if we tried to preserve all
our old buildings; but it’s up to
us to pass on something of the
past to those coming after us.”
He mentioned, as buildings
worth preserving, the Melbourne
Customs House—located, appro-
priately for commemorative pur-
poses, at the site chosen for a
village” by Melbourne’s founder,
John Batman—and the Victoria
Barracks in St. Kilda-road.
No one wou id quarrel with
these selections as being typical
of some of the finest work of
Melbourne’s 19th-century
architects and builders. The
Royal Mint is another that has
deservedly received mention, and
some of the city’s terrace-
buildings should be spared as
long as possible from the
wrecker. The real difficulty is
to make sure that they will
survive the present vigorous
reconstruction, which looks like
continuing throughout the next
decade.
The first need is to develop in
the community a sense of pride
in such structures: and a real
desire to preserve as much as
possible for posterity. Educa-
tion offers one such means ;
newspapers can do muc
help ; and Govern men
authorities yould assist by set mg
an with butMm* ° v er
winch they have rantrol
Next there is the need for an
authority in which e
tectural profession s o
strongly represented ,
mine which buildings are Y
of preservation and to ac
national trustee for buff i g
purchased for this purpose,
Last, there is the matter of
finance. If the public conscience
were sufficiently awakened it
should be practicable to obtain
funds by public subscription, to
be supplemented where necessary
by Government grants,
Melbourne’s case is applicable
to the other capital cities, and
if one city were to start the ball
rolling by establishing a national
trust others would no doubt
follow suit.—D. J. G. (Vic.).


Best
Mineral
Supplement
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65 % tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
I
Os
CM
IUSW
ftO 0*
»o*»*
V'*
in
J?
'M-Gd-Ck.
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRLCAICIC phosphate
Aay particular* gladly Mppjf**-.
Writ* t* DAVIS OELATINb &fO he KM.
SYONEY • GJ>.O to> <O5B. MELBOURNE • GJtXX
to* lITf. ADELAIDE • GJ>.O. to. 7MK. HUMANE
• GJ>O to, SM. PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE WHEAT INDUSTRY
LAND books come and go,
but A. R. Callaghan's and
A. J. Millington’s The Wheat
Industry in Australia (Angus
and Robertson) is something
out of the ordinary. It contains
all the facts about wheatgrow-
ing in Australia: from its
beginning by unskilled ex-
convicts working with the hoe on
10- to 30-acre patches, unable to
grow enough to feed a few
hundred people, to the 200-
million-bushel-a-year industry of
today, with its modern bulk-
handling systems and giant
terminals, some of which are
capable of pouring wheat into a
ship at the rate of 1600 tons an
hour.
An admirable book, written
with competence and assurance,
full of well - substantiated
information, dispassionate in
criticism and never dull. An
immense amount of documentary
material must have been sifted
for each chapter, yet one feels
that in the condensation nothing
significant was omitted.
Fallowing
Numerous maps and graphs
illustrate the vital role of rain-
fall in the wheatbelts, most of
which occurs in the growing-
season, from April to October.
A wheat-crop, we learn, usually
takes a good deal more moisture
than falls during its growth, and
it leaves the soil in a depleted
state at harvest.
In this section the authors
explode a long-cherished notion
of wheatfarmers that fallowing
conserves moisture. Scientific
investigations have proved that
soil which, in its virgin state,
could absorb rainfall to the
depth of 9in., after frequent
cultivation had its rain-penetra-
tion depth reduced to liin.
In a chapter on wheatland-
soils of Australia we learn how
misleading it is to classify soils
by the old method of original
rock—that is, granitic, basaltic
and so on. The new method of
reading a soil’s geological history
by exposing what is called a “soil
profile” (what we would call a
vertical section) shows how
much climate, particularly rain-
fall, determines the nature of the
particular soil which results from
the weathering of the parent-
rock.
A fact, revealed by the
geological evidence, which may
bring a wistful feeling to many
a wheatgrower in drought-time
is that most of the wheat-country
in the remote past had a very
heavy rainfall. The West Aus-
tralian “podsols” resulted from a
Over a period o£ five
years it has been
shown that open-faced
sheep returned an
average of 7/- a year
ahead more . than
sheep with wool-
covered faces. In
addition to the fact
that its expectancy of
life is greater a lamb
marked and tailed by
Elastrator Rubber
Rings is a better
business proposition
than one marked and
tailed by a knife
because it has a better
chance of maintaining
prime condition.
rainfall so heavy that the iron
and other solubles were leached
out of the surface and deposited
in the subsoil; while the great
plains of the Riverina resulted
from enormous quantities of
water flowing from huge, snow-
capped mountain-ranges, of
which Mt. Kosciusko is only a
midget survivor.
The photographs of the various
wheatgrowing districts, with
their characteristic natural trees,
are as interesting as. those of
water-eroded wheatfields in
N.S.W. and wind-eroded mallee-
lands in Victoria (sometimes to
a depth of Bft.)
The chapter on soil-structure
is impressive, chiefly for its
demonstration of the damage
done by cultivation in destroy-
ing “soil-crumbs,” while that on
soil-nitrogen is the most alarm-
"I'll have to go inside now—the serials about to start."
ing of all. This records, from
the results of a wide range of
tests and experiments, that the
wheatgrowers have quite literally
been “selling their country.”
It is shown that the cost of
replacing the major plant-
sold off Australian
"wheatfarms, as grain, in one
year is £27,360,000. Phos-
phorus, which accounts for only
£3,600,000, is the only one which
is replaced to any extent, by the
application of superphosphate.
Nitrogen, which would cost
£21,600,000 if replaced in the
form of sulphate-of-ammonia,
has never been replaced because,
at £4O a ton, “it doesn’t pay.”
The history of Australian
wheatfarming is really the story
of a ruthless exploitation of
what has never been (by world
standards) a generous supply of
nitrogen.
Tests at the Rutherglen
Research Station have revealed
that over a six-year period of
normal wheatfarming the cost
of replacing the nitrogen lost
would be £53 for each acre;
while the value of the wheat
produced during the period
was £57.
When we consider the other
costs involved it is clear that
wheatfarming by the Australian
method can never pay. Regarded
from the national viewpoint, our
wheat has been sold at a
disastrous loss.
Many of the technical
“advances” in wheatgrowing
have really been devices for
drawing more heavily on the
diminishing supply of nitrogen.
Fallowing, long credited with
getting its superior results by
conserving moisture, has actually
procured its yields by accelerat-
ing the availability of the
nitrogen in the soil; high-yield-
ing varieties have been another
hastening factor; while varieties
which do well on nitrogen-
deficient soil (though yielding a
grain of low protein-quality)
have encouraged the exploitation
to the bitter end.
The section about the nature
of the soil, particularly the
enormously complicated inter-
action of the bacterial micro-
organisms which is going on in
it (making us realise that the soil
is really a living organism), is
full of fascination.
It should engender in every
farmer who reads it a much-
needed respect for his acres. The
warning it gives to every power-
farmer teed-up to interfere with
Nature’s cycles is: “Disturb it
at your peril.” One consoling
fact is that a well-established
subterranean-clover pasture is
capable of restoring nitrogen to
the soil to the value (again in
terms of sulphate-of-ammonia)
of 101 b. an acre annually.
Dry-farming Conference
The chapter about “dry-
farming,” regarded in 1911 as
a revolutionary American idea
which would show the way for
greatly increased yields of
wheat in Australia, is chiefly
interesting for the opinions ex-
pressed at a conference of the
various agricultural experts of
the day.
While many echoed, parrot-
like, the extravagant language of
the American, Campbell, who
had originated the idea, about
“tillage is manure,” “tillage is
moisture,” and “capillary rise of
moisture in the soil,” men like
R. W. Peacock, manager of the
Bathurst Experiment Farm, and
G. L. Sutton, an N.S.W. official
delegate, warned against the
practice with arguments which
are still sound today.
These men were unfortunately
disregarded at the time, but the
authors have done a good
service in bringing their names
out of the departmental file
where they were buried.
Dry-farming methods were
practised by Australian wheat-
farmers, and advocated by
departmental experts, for about
25 years, during which time they
did incalculable damage to
Australian lands. They were
only modified when the evidence
of soil-erosion could no longer
be denied.
Science has now discredited
all the theories of the dry-
farming enthusiasts as applied to
the average Australian wheat-
lands. An exception is the deep
rich “black” soil of part of
northern N.S.W. and southern
Queensland, where, owing to the
remarkable water - absorbing
capacity of the soil, it is possible
to k make use of the heavy
summer-rainfall for the growing
wheat in the low-rainfall winter.
When the writers move from
the wheatfields to an investiga-
tion of the wheat-grain in
laboratory and bakery, nitrogen
again comes to the foreground.
Nitrogen-deficiency in the soil
is the cause of the loss of
protein and thiamen content in
our bread. The writers make the
point that farmers don't get
much financial encouragement
to produce wheat with a high
gluten-content.
Those interested in the
botanical secrets of the wheat-
plant will find them all in story,
diagram and photograph, in-
cluding enlargements which
make the minute wheat-flower
look like a rare orchid. All that
has been done to improve wheat
by selection and by variety-
breeding is explained and
illustrated exhaustively.
There is a brief biography of
that remarkable man Farrar, and
an account of his valuable work
in eliminating many of the
risks of early wheatgrowing by
developing disease- and drought-
resistant varieties.
Again, to glance at another
substantial section of the book—
“ Diseases of Wheat and Their
Control”—we learn the origin
of that now-misused term
“wheat-pickling,” for treatment
of seed with a fungicide. The
earliest method of discouraging
rust actually was pickling—that
is, steeping the seed in a brine-
solution.
It is recorded in the memoirs
of Joseph Holt, dated 1803, that
stem-rust which ruined a promis-
ing crop of wheat was caused
by a fog which lasted for four
days and obscured the sky. After
reading this book we know
better. Stem-rust and the other
fungus diseases are really
parasitic vegetable-organisms.
The remarkable thing about
them is that each disease may
have up to 40 different “races,”
and wheat bred to resist these
diseases may, at any time,
succumb to a hitherto unknown
“race.”
Resistance to disease is, in
many cases, obtained by crossing
the selected variety with the
wheats which can still be found
in various parts of the world.
The Russian
scientist Vavilov
collected 25,000
varieties in several
expeditions. The
drug colchinine
enables a synthesis
of new species to
be carried out
artificially, as an
aid to practical
plant - breeding;
so, with one thing
and another, there
seems to be no
limit to the future
of wheat - breed-
ing.
(t is generally believed that
the bread-wheats originated in
Afghanistan or Persia.
Machinery, Marketing
The coming of mechanical
power to wheatfarming, the
invention and improvement of
special machinery (including the
brilliant success-story of the
farm-boy H. V. McKay); the
odd, makeshift method of
arriving at and selling our wheat
by the f.a.q. (fair average
quality) system; bulk-handling
with the various methods in
each State (including the story of
the enterprising Western Aus-
tralian farmers who devised and
built their own co-operative
bulk-handling system) are all
described.
Australian wheat-marketing is
dealt with in an admirably
objective manner, not usual on
this subject, bristling as it does
with social, political and
economic angles. There is a
chapter on the means of arriving
at the cost-of-production of
wheat on the farm, and even one
on the relationship between the
farmer and his technical advisers,
in which a fictional account is
given of a soil-conservation
officer winning-over a farmer to
sound soil-management by
methods reminiscent of Car-
negie’s How to Make Friends
and Influence People.
While the various historical,
geological, botanical and other
scientific and economic informa-
tion will be of great value to all
sorts of people, the greatest con-
tribution the book will make to
Australian agriculture will be in
assisting our farmers towards
an agricultural maturity.
There is a comparison with the
centuries-long development in
England from the Exploitive,
through the Subsistence and
Rotational, to a system of
Permanent Farming, with its
proper recognition of the need
to conserve the fertility of the
soil.
The authors see hopeful signs
in Australia of progress from
the exploitive wheatfarming to
a mixed system with sown
pastures and stock, though they
are aware that other motives
than consideration for the soil’s
fertility are in many cases
responsible for the change.
Nothing is more likely to
hasten this change towards
mature farming, and make it
permanent, than a general appre-
ciation of the facts contained in
this book.
E. O. SCHLUNKE.
Sandhill Treatment
“Ex-R.S.M.”: There are
methods for locking-up sand-
hills other than those outlined by
“Sundowner” (B. 27/2/’57). The
best in many ways —if it isn’t too
late—is to put a netting-fence
around each one, exterminate
the rabbits inside it, and never
put sheep to graze there.
The native scrub and the
underbrush soon stage a come-
back. Wildflowers grow on it
again and it provides the needed
harborage for insect-eating birds.
Nearly all sandhills lie at right-
angles to the prevailing wind, so
you also get a shelter-belt.
If there is a sufficient area, the
day comes when the firewood-
supply can be cut on those sand-
hills, provided it is done on a
planned rotation. A fire through
the cut-over area causes wattles,
sheoaks and native-pines to
regenerate through seedlings.
Malices and gums grow by
suckers from the stumps.
A few of the old, hollow-
limbed trees should be spared to
serve as bird-nest sites and as
homes for the pygmy species of
possums.
Where drift has gone too far
for the above measures, sow
evening-primrose seed with the
rye. This plant spreads rapidly
and soon locks-up the sand. The
area can then be planted with
useful or ornamental trees.
A deep sandhill gives you an


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KUCHING
RTY. LTD.
3J9 George Street
SYDNEY
o^3My
ROHRY
SUSHI
PAT.' N0.J56596
solves all your
pasture control
problems!
mm: %
NOW USED IN
12 COUNTRIES
CHOICE OF CHAINS, KNIVES
AND PASTURE TOPPING ENDS MAKES IT
WORLD’S MOST VERSATILE SLASHING MACHINE
1. CHAINS. For clearing rough, uneven
ground of regrowth, bracken, thistles, ti-
tree, horehound, onion weed, broombush,
etc. Cuts Bft. swathe at 2-4 J m.p.h.
2. KNIVES. For clearing even ground of
dense, sappy growths or fibrous growths
such as rushes. Cuts 6-7 ft. swathe at
2-4 m.p.h. . . . forward or reverse.
3. PASTURE TOPPING ENDS. For
topping seeds and fleece infesting burrs
and clearing occasional sappy growth in
even pastures where there are no obstacles.
Cuts 7-Bjft. swathe at 3-5 m.p.h.
■fr Chains, knives and topping- ends quickly
interchangeable. ☆ Clears 5-7 acres hr.
for approx. 1/- acre. TV Also ideal for
! draining flood debris, cutting fire-breaks,
; stubble mulching, etc. ☆ Adjustable fric-
tion type coupling cushions shock loads.
TV Disc rides in centre of swathe and auto-
matically controls working height of
chains by following ground contours,
■fr Fits any tractoy P.T.O.
Price, complete with chains and all
fittings, £l9B, F.0.R., F. 0.8., all Capital
Cities. Knives and Topping Ends optional
extra, £l9/10/- complete set.
NOSaox
For further particulars write to the manufacturers •
J. TODD & SON LIMITED
639 South RcL, Edwardstown, South Australia
DISTRIBUTORS: S.A.: Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd.; Power Plant Ltd. VIC.: William
Adams Tractors Pty. Ltd.; Bishops Implements Pty. Ltd. W.A.: Wigmores Ltd. ;
Wesfarmers Co-op. Ltd. N.S.W.: Sun Co. Pty. Ltd., Lidcombe; British Tractors Pty!
Ltd., Rosebery. Q’LD: Day & Grimes, Kingaroy, Gympie, Nambour; Carlisle Motors,
Mackay. TAS.: “Fordson” Dealers. N.Z.: Andrews & Beaven Ltd., Christchurch!
Export inquiries to the Manufacturers.
opportunity to provide the
home with a fruit-supply where
irrigation-water is unobtainable.
It is necessary, however, to plant
the trees twice as far apart as
one would do in a heavy-rainfall
area.
I know a sandhill which, 20
years ago, was starting to drift
badly through the combined
effects of rabbits, fires and sheep.
Today it is a picture to look at
and a source of profit.
Around it runs a rabbit-proof
fence. Along the south-west and
north-east fringes deinse belts of
bamboos serve as windbreaks.
Inside these are apricot-, lemon-,
quince-, fig-, mulberry- and
peach-trees, with lines of vine-
trellises.
All the trees yield well, and the
vines carry exceptionally heavy
crops. Bird-damage is consider-
able, but the home is kept
supplied, and there is often a
surplus for sale locally. The
trees and vines receive no water
except from the 14-inch rainfall.
Pineapple-juice
“Nedrium”: Not seeing why
he should send his Mission
Beach (N.Q.) pines 1000 miles
south by rail to Brisbane for a
not-too-princely return, Utchee
Creek danegrower L. M. Brins-
mead has used them in his own
backyard secondary-industry.
He has started his own pine-
juice bottling-plant, using the
pines from his subsidiary
property, a few miles from his
main holding.
With a home-made plant, start-
ing in January, he has bottled
2500 small bottles, a little under
the standard C.O.D. “Golden
Circle” brand size. His family
has always made its own juice,
but this year they have decided
to launch out on a commercial
scale, backed by his 10 acres at
Mission Beach.
Brinsmead believes he is the
only Queensland grower extract-
ing his own pine-juice. He aims
to move into the production of
crushed-pine for jams. After
that he will see what can be done
with pine-skins, which have some
value as stock-food.
B. W. Muirden.
Lucerne-seed
Harvesting
“South”: Harvesting lucerne-
seed can be a profitable sideline
in many dryland areas, judging
by trials at the Rutherglen
(Vic.) Research Station.
Although lucerne is grown in
most parts of Victoria, with or
without irrigation, and although
the cost of seed is high and
the plant sets its seed freely,
little seed is harvested in the
State.
One of the essentials is that
the stand to be stripped should
be well established. As the seed
does not ripen evenly, it often
becomes necessary to take off
some of the crop earlier than
usual (that is, when the seeds are
yellow, not brown), to avoid
losses when mature pods burst,
A standard wheat-header may
be used with no special attach-
ments, and few modifications:
smaller - hole bottom - riddle,
reduced air-blast, and a slower
drum-speed, with wider drum-
clearances, than for wheat.
Direct heading of lucerne
can be done in one operation,
and is much faster: thus reduc-
ing the risk of weather-damage,
lowering labor-costs, and
minimising losses due to shed-
ding during handling. However,
it has some disadvantages. One
of these is trouble at thresh-
ing because of uneven ripen-
ing; another, the amount of
immature seed in the sample
because of this factor. Which
leads to another disadvantage in
that there is risk of heating in
the bags due to the presence of
unripe grain.
Harvesting by the pick-up
method is, in effect, a mechan-
ised version of the old method
of harvesting, but has the dis-
advantage of involving two or
three operations. In addition,
the pick-up required for the
header is not standard and is
costly for a small farmer. And
there is risk of the dried grain
shedding during the operation.
Main point in favor is that
the material, when threshed, is
uniformly dry, and so produces
the best possible sample. This,
in turn, eliminates the danger
of heating in the bags.
Double-bagging is advisable
if the seed is to be stored for
any length of time, and especially
if it is to be marketed. It goes
without saying that a dry place
is necessary.
Asian Markets
“Yering”: Except in small
localised areas, it appears that
most of Asia except Japan can
grow all the cereals it wants. So
protein-foods are the most likely
exports from Australia to the
Far East. These include milk-
powder, perhaps some of the
pulses, and probably mutton.
There has been quite a good
trade in live sheep to Singapore
for many years. Japan has been
a good customer for our wheat
recently.
And, of course, Japan buys
our wool. Much of this
eventually goes to the Asiatic
mainland ; also to U.S.A., which
offers Japan tariff concessions,
probably for strategic reasons.
Tree-farming
“Big Billy”: Tree-farming is
more than a sideline in the
U.S.A.
A regional forest-tree-improve-
ment committee has been set up
to develop trees that will have
improved form and better-quality
wood, that will mature more
quickly, and give better yields ;
and trees of highest quality are
used for “breeding-stock.”
Scientists are now working on
projects to develop pines and
hardwoods that will grow to
harvesting-size in from one-half
to one-third of the time no
required, and are evolving strains
with increased droug -
resistance. This would permi
planting each planting-season,
regardless of weather-conditions,
and trees could be grown on
soils now considered unsuitable,
High-yielding gum-trees that
are being propagated produce
more than twice as much gum-
fluid (a useful by-product) than
such trees produce now. And
these trees may be hybridised to
give stiff larger yields,
Strains and hybrids are being
developed to grow long and
straight for poles and the like,
The aim here is to produce trees
with few branches on the main
stem and a small crown. This
could lead, also, to more trees
being grown to the acre. Im-
provement is expected in
hardwood-trees for special needs
such as furniture-manufacture,
researchers maintaining it is
possible to develop trees with
a “bird’s-eye” design (popular in
furniture) in the wood.
Woods resistant to insects and
disease are being developed, too.
For instance, a white-pine is
resistant to blister-rust, and a
chestnut is blight-resistant.
Irrigating Potatoes
“Billjim”: Limit the area
irrigated for potatoes from one
bore or water-point to 30-35
acres for a standard day of nine
hours’ pumping.
Use a pump delivering from
200 g.p.m. at 120 ft. to 140 ft.
head. Use iin.-main jet-
sprinklers at pressures of 301 b.
to 401 b. p.s.i. Use 4in.-piping,
and limit lateral length to about
10 chains.
Irrigate paddocks in 10-chain
strips and plant this way where
possible.
Space sprinklers along the
line 35ft. to 40ft., and shift 35ft.
to 52.5 ft. Length of run per
line is then 1} hour to i\ hour
to apply li acre-inches.
Recent research indicates that
maximum requirement for
potatoes is an application every
10 days.
Evening Primrose
“Myall”: A biennial, the
evening-primrose has recently
been given a good deal of
attention as a fodder-plant.
It does well on the poorer classes
of sands and loams within the
20-in.-to-30in.-rainfall belts,
where there is ample drainage.
The seed should be sown in
February and March, at the rate
of from lib. to 21b. an acre, and
lightly covered with soil, as deep
sowing retards germination.
Mix the seed with sawdust or
superphosphate to facilitate even
distribution.
The plant makes its best
growth during the late autumn,
winter and spring, and is a
valuable fodder for both sheep
and cattle. One big advantage
is that it is green when most of
the summer-grasses have dried-
off.
Seed is produced very freely,
so that the plant soon spreads.
The thick, fleshy tap-root pene-
trates deeply into the soil, making
the plant very drought-resistant.
There are at least five varieties
common in the Commonwealth,
several of them grown as
ornamental plants in flower-
gardens.
Table Poultry
“C.A.A.”: Because of the
uncertainties of the egg-export
industry, a South Australian
authority has advised poultry-
farmers to develop their farms on
more diversified lines. Not to
reserve all their baskets for eggs,
so to speak.
There is an increasing demand
in Australia for table-poultry,
and the departmental expert
considers the prospects quite
satisfactory, if the marketing-
side were organised.
Experiments at the State’s
Parafield Research Station
indicate that day-old cockerels
previously destroyed at hatching-
time every season can be
successfully, and economically,
reared for the table.
Crossbreds and heavy pure-
breeds were reared to about 31b.
weight in 12 weeks, and feeding-
costs amounted to less than
ss. a bird.
To show what was possible,
a Murray Bridge farmer had
reared 800 table-birds to a live-
weight of 4£lb. to 51b. and feed-
ing costs had amounted to 9s. 4d.
a bird. Although these costs
could have been reduced (in the
expert’s opinion), the farmer
nevertheless made a substantial
profit from the venture.
At Parafield better results were
obtained by rearing the cockerels
in battery-brooders and battery-
weaners, although the initial
outlay was more expensive than
for floor-rearing.
Plastic Drying-grounds
“Pira”: As well as being
useful in protecting grass-
silage stacks, plastic-sheets seem
to have a valuable use on drying-
grounds in the dried-fruits areas.
Experience in recent years
suggests that the plastic does a
better job than bituminous paper,
which deteriorates quickly.
The experience of E. C. Orton,
of Red Cliffs (Vic.), shows that
plastic-sheeting can preserve
fruit well for at least a couple of
days.
Hessians, still necessary, nave
the advantage of acting as a
sieve for any fine foreign-matter
in the fruit. Although light and
easy to handle, the sheeting
tends to flap in the wind, and
needs extra battening for a
storm.
The plastic tears when pulled
against a sharp object, but can
be mended easily with special
adhesive-tape. It does not rot
or mould.
Victorian Department of
Agriculture experts who have
been looking into the possibilities
of plastic-sheeting point out that
it’s a bit early for the material
to be recommended for general
use: it will need to be tested
over a wide range of conditions.
Farm Hints
“Sundowner”: Tests over wide
areas of S.A.’s Mallee have
indicated that low-rainfall
country will carry pastures. A
mixture of Dwalganup- and
barrel-clovers and Wimmera
rye-grass, with yearly applica-
tions of at least 601 b. of super,
per acre, had given outstanding
results. Overriding advantages
of using Dwalganup are cheap-
ness of seed, early-flowering,
ability to set large quantities of
seed, early growth after germina-
tion, and better regeneration
from year to year.
“Billjim”: Sulphur-dust is very
effective in dealing with powdery-
mildew of vine-crops. It can
be used at all stages of growth,
provided dusters are set fine
to deliver about 81b. of dusting-
sulphur an acre at the beginning
of treatment, and up to 151 b.
finally. Apply only in calm
weather, preferably in the early
morning, and don’t treat wet
vines. Colloidal sulphur-sprays
are also effective, as are dilute
lime-sulphur sprays.
“Sundowner”: First step
towards reclamation of salt-
patches should be fencing-off
from stock and rabbits. Straw
spread over the ground will help
in the regeneration of salt-
tolerant weeds and annual
grasses. As regrowth becomes
more pronounced, a seeding of
Wimmera-rye and sub.-clover,
preferably in the autumn, is
worth trying. If it doesn’t suc-
ceed the first time, the .straw
should be left to form a mulch.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(7/3/’57)
A large part of Queensland should receive reasonably
good rains during April, with heavy falls occurring on the
north and south coasts. Nevertheless, the central coast,
central highlands, Maranoa and southern border may get
only poor rainfall.
N.S.W. should receive general rains above average
during April, with the heaviest falls and some flooding
occurring on the coastal areas. Similar rains should be
experienced during May, with the possibility of severe
flooding on the north coast.
April should be a month of poor rainfall in Victoria,
apart from moderate rain in the north-east, east-central and
west coast.
South Australia should also experience poor rainfall
during April, although there may be some variation, as
one cycle indicates moderate falls in the agricultural areas
and west coast.
Apart from moderate rain on the lower south coast,
April should be a month of poor rainfall in Western Aus-
tralia. But heavy general rains should occur in May.
LENNOX WALKER.


No Bike
By T. K. MITCHELL
EVERYONE had warned
Mum against having the
place too respectable when
the man came.
“No sense in making him think
it’s any better than it actually
is,” Mrs. Jones had said ; and
with a puzzled expression Mum
had agreed.
The puzzled expression was
still there when I came home
from school that afternoon. Mum
was staring fixedly at a pair of
Dad’s old overalls that were
lying across a chair.
“Are you going to do the
washing?” I asked her, thinking
of my dirty Superman sloppy-
joe. I hated to take that sloppy-
joe off for a second.
“No, I’m trying to respectably
untidy the place,” she answered.
“But if I leave those trousers
there I won’t have anywhere to
sit.”
We only had two chairs and
the fireside heater to sit on in
those days. I’ve often wondered
since how even Mrs. Jones would
have gone about untidying, a
place which only had two chairs
in it. For Mum, who was a
naturally tidy person, it was an
impossibility. Naturally I
wasn't surprised that despite her
campaign the place looked
exactly as it did every other
afternoon. Except for the dirty
pants, that is.
“You can’t see very well in
here,” I tried to console her.
“Maybe he won’t notice the
tidiness.”
“I’d thought of that myself.”
She wasn’t consoled. “But I’ll
have to turn on the light when
he comes. Otherwise he’ll think
that we haven’t paid the bill. I
wish your father would get
around to putting in that extra
window.”
I watched her take the three
pottery bluebirds off the wall,
toss the fresh flowers outside,
then put the birds back and pick
more flowers. She went a bit
red when she noticed me and
explained that not having them
didn’t make the place any the
less tidy after all, just character-
less.
“Won’t the Housing Com-
mission give us a new house if
this one looks too good?” I
asked by way of conversation.
“They probably won’t give us
one if it looks too bad either.”
She sighed. “It’s very diffi-
cult.” It seemed that way to
me, too.
After having the obvious
solution of Johnny (he was my
best mate) and me fix things for
her rejected, I made myself
scarce in the mujberry-tree. Dad
said that he didn’t think fat boys
were good conductors of com-
passion, so when the car pulled
up a while later I waited until
Mum had taken the man inside
(he wasn’t so skinny himself),
before I sneaked down after
them.
T GOT outside the window
A just in time to hear him ask
Mum if it was always this
gloomy. I felt sorry for Dad
as she switched on the light.
“There’s only this room and
the kitchenette. The beds are
behind that curtain.” I heard
the rungs pushed aside as she
showed him,'then the scratch of
what could have only been a
post-office nib.
“I suppose you realise that
you should have the landlord
fair-rented? Three-pounds for
this is a disgrace.”
Mum explained how thankful
we’d been to get anything at the
time, and it didn’t seem right
to quibble about costs after-
wards.
Then he inquired about
washing-facilities. I didn’t know
whether to feel relieved or not
and I don’t think Mum did either.
That laundry was unrespectable
enough for anyone.
Until recently we’d always
sat in the tubs and thrown hot
water from the copper over our-
selves on bath-nights ; but a few
weeks previously Mr. Suddern
had given us an old gas-heater on
condition Dad paid the installa-
tion costs, and with the under-
standing that the heater would
be still there when we weren’t.
Practically everything in our
place has a name, and it wasn’t
long before the heater was called
Mischief-maker because when-
ever we lit it the neighbors
complained.
A man from the gas-company
had been to look at it four times.
The first time he had scratched
his head and said it was a
miracle that we hadn’t all gassed
ourselves. The other three times
he’d just looked sort of sur-
prised to see us. Dad was the
only one who ever lit Mischief-
maker. He’d turn on the tap,
stand at the door and throw a
match in the generally right
direction. It was the ensuing
explosion that caused the
neighbors’ complaints and made
everything so untidy.
Saving the washing-facilities
until last had been a stroke of
genius. The man took one look
Every Homebuilder’s Epic
at Mischief-maker, scratched
like crazy in his book and went
away.
“Did he say how long we’d
have to wait for a place?” Dad
asked over his chops that night.
“It’s run on a ballot-system,”
Mum told him. “We may be
lucky and. draw one next month
or we may have to wait the full
nine years.”
From the way she said it I
don’t think either of them was
surprised when we didn’t hear
from the man or his commission
again.
A S it turned out it didn’t matter
anyway. It was Mum who
got the idea first, and when Mum
gets an idea in nothing flat it’s
an action.
“Why don’t we buy a block
of land and forget about the
Housing Commission?” she
asked Dad.
“Why don’t we buy the
moon?” he answered sarcasti-
cally.
Mum didn’t say any more
about it then, but you could
almost hear the little wheels
clicking over.
She dropped the bombshell a
week later: “We have an
appointment at the estate-
agent’s for next Saturday after-
noon.”
Dad didn’t even blink. “Are
we going to buy the moon after
all?”
She picked up the dishes and
headed for the kitchen. Mum
could always talk her way out
of trouble better when she was
working.
“I’ve been doing the rounds
all this week,” she said. “I’d
almost given up when I walked
into this place today and there
it was. Wally, it was put there
especially for us. It’s”
“How much? Where? And
what’s the catch?”
Mum told me once that Dad
isn’t suspicious, really; just
careful.
“It’s at Skyline Heights. And,
Wally! The views! They’re
indescribable!”
“How much?” Dad asked
again.
“Two-hundred down and the
rest over three years.”
Despite the three years even
Dad got enthusiastic when we
saw the land on the following
Saturday. Like a lot of old
married folk Mum and Dad had
always wanted a little cottage
nestling on a hillside with the
blue Pacific or majestic green-
clad mountains stretching away
to the distance. When they saw
how they could have both, the
Pacific at the rear and the
mountains in front, they forgot
the perpendicular cliff we had
just scaled, flopped awestruck to
a rock and contentedly dangled
their legs into eternity.
“Think of the sunrise from
our kitchen - window,” Mum
sighed. “And if we have the
lounge”—she scrambled to her
feet and paced four steps —“here,
you’ll be able to relax with the
sunsets while I’m busy with
dinner.”
Mum’s never up with the
sunrise and except for a few
weeks in the middle of summer
Dad’s never home in time to
see it set, let alone relax in the
lounge with it. But mothers
don’t get that look in their eyes
too often. Besides, something
about the estate-agent’s face as
he sat emptying stones out of
his shoes warned me to keep
quiet.
Dad looked down to where
a waterfall cascaded a mile-and-
a-half below. “Old Jonesy will
be green with envy when he
sees this,” he said.
Our doom was sealed.
'THINGS cruised along calmly
for a while after that. I got
my first hint of a coming storm
the night I heard Mum telling
“Walter” to control himself.
Mum always calls Dad either
“Wally” or “Darling.” “Walter”
inevitably means the worst.
“I tell you I’m not leaving,”
Dad yelled. “We’re not taking
one step out of this place until
we’re ready. And I'm not ready.”
“You know we promised to
go if they ever wanted it back.
And it isn’t as though we
haven’t anywhere, now. There’s
only two more instalments on
the land, remember.”
“What are we going to live
in? A gum-tree?”
Dad yelled some more, Mum
broke a few plates, and it was
settled. We were leaving.
Dad spent the next six weeks
trying to raise finance for a
house. He spent the following
six trying to raise finance for
half-a-house. His boss finally
lent him enough for a garage.
By the time the council had
rejected our plans and we’d
found a builder, the Sudderns
had lost what Dad called their
last vestige of non-existent
patience. Mrs. Suddern was
calling on Mum twice a day
telling her that Dad wasn’t even
trying, and that only fools left
things to men. Mr. Suddern
told Dad that the trouble with
women was that they got
settled at other people’s expense
and didn’t want to shift.
Eventually they moved-in
with their son and daughter-in-
law next door.
“We’ve sold our other three
houses and haven’t anywhere
to live,” they told the neighbors.
The neighbors no longer
spoke to us.
“You’d think the stupid clots
would realise we’re as anxious
to get out as they are to have
us go,” Dad stormed.
But he didn’t really lose his
temper until the day Mrs.
Suddern told him she had had a
coronary occlusion and had a
doctor’s certificate stating that
it was imperative she should
regain possession of her home.
Dad only said that he wished
to God Mum would have a
coronary occlusion, too. I
thought that was harder on
Mum than anyone, but Mrs.
Suddern dropped the spade
she’d been digging the new
silage-pit with and flew inside.
It was out-and-out war after that.
“If you can build this ’ere
garage any quicker than I can,
mate, you’re welcome to try.”
The builder resigned. Dad
tried. Mum watched in agonies
as he fell off the borrowed
ladder and buckled the just-
delivered sink.
As Mum said, it was one
trouble after another, but in
between swearing and hammer-
ing his fingers, Dad sang. “No
more Mischief-maker, no more
paying rent, no more of
Suddern’s nasty looks.”
He was thinking of the paint-
ing and repairing and installing
he had done for others’ benefit.
This time it was strictly for our
own.
WE broke two windows trying
to get the twelve-foot
sheets of masonite fixed to the
ceiling. We decided to make
them six-foot sheets.
“Never notice they’re a bit
skew-whiff after we get some
builder’s tape over the cracks,”
Dad said.
The cracks did show in the
finish, though, while the corners
bulged and the window-frames
looked crooked and the factory
sent odd double-doors. Even so
I could tell that it was a great
moment for,my father and only
a little less so for Mum when
we stood looking into that dusty,
empty, completed garage on
moving-day.
Dad hit me hard on the
shoulder: “We’re ratepayers
now, son,” he said.
I’d never seen him so happy
to be paying for anything before.
Mum had to go out to work
for the next few weeks until we
had the deposit for the lino,
and odd bits of furniture. She
said she hoped I wouldn’t grow
up to be a delinquent because of
it, but if she had to sleep, eat
apd generally live off that
unfloated concrete floor for
much longer, she’d begin to feel
like Hiawatha’s poor relation.
The view atoned for everything
—in the. beginning.
It was Mum who first suc-
cumbed to undeniable facts. If
she hadn’t been working it
probably would have taken her
longer to become aware of the
perpendicular cliff. Dad must
have realised this too, because
he pointed out how she wouldn’t
notice it so much when she was
at home all day; and that there
were plans to have the road
extended, eventually.
He looked guilty, remember-
ing the three-mile hike to the
shops. I cheered silently. Mum
would make darned sure I got a
bike for Christmas this year.
It wasn’t until the night that
they got around to the house-
plans that a hint of disillusion-
ment clouded Dad’s face. He
didn’t seem to mind about the
dozens of picture-windows Mum
insisted on. It was her approxi-
mate estimate of curtaining and
Venetians, plus the fact that it
would be just too silly, even
though it might be a thousand
or so cheaper, to have the
laundry facing the best easterly
position when the bedrooms
built on a second level would
solve all such difficulties . . .
The Joneses’ reactions weren’t
what he had expected either.
They came to visit us one Sunday
shortly after we’d moved.
“You’ll have to plant a wind-
break right around the place if
you want any shelter from these
damned gales,” I heard Mr.
Jones telling Dad.
“There’s not much soil here,
is there? You’re going to have
the devil’s own job making a
decent garden out of this, old
man! ”
He kicked contemptuously at
a stone and didn’t even notice
the cascading waterfall. I
couldn’t stand to see the look
of inward disgust on Dad’s face.
.1 went back inside.
There the awakened misgivings
Dad was having about the
desirability of realised dreams
were, through Mrs. Jones, being
commuted to Mum.
“It’s like living on top of the
world and so inconvenient. Still,
I’ve no doubt you knew what
you wanted.”
To me Mrs. Jones sounded
very doubtful. By the time they
left that made five of us.
t»ECAUSE of Mum’s working
!> no G ne was home the dav
the Sudderns called. They left
a note to the effect that we owed
them seventeen-pounds-ten.
Dad looked convulsive when
he read it, but Mum calmed him
by saying that poor Mrs.
Suddern’s ill-health and its
worries must have temporarily
unhinged their minds,
Then on the Sunday after a
second note had been left the
Sudderns appeared in person,
The first letter they showed
Dad was from a professional
painter saying that Dad had
ineptly painted the interior of
the p i ace> to t h e interior’s detri-
ment
“Without our permission,
furthermore,” added Mrs.
Suddern.
There was another account for
having ruined one sheet of
plaster by unlawfully installing a
gas-heater. Also the small matter
of one missing saucepan,
“ What does seventeen-pounds
mean to young people like you?”
Mr. Suddern asked. He looked
around. “You weren’t long
making yourselves comfortable
here.”
Mum had left her job op the
Friday. We only had the pay-
ments to worry about now-
“lf we liked to take the matter
Ul
hesitation. Probably some more
besides. Mr. Suddern looked
reflective
Tears welled in Mrs. Suddern’s
eves as s b e stretched a trembling
hand towards her husband:
“We’re struggling along on a
mere pittance.”
Her bac k stiffened.
“ We ’re entitled to the pension,
mind . but natura ii y we have
too much ide to accept
charity .”
Even Mum f orgot her any-
thing - to - avoid - unpleasantness
policy then . Dad’s muscles
his arms reached out‘and
dropped. Everyones eyes
reV erted to Mrs. Suddern.
■-y word, that’s a maguifi-
TtZ y °“ ° U ‘ tlw ”
»head(W.
, be ,? ter in S signs left her
SwlL^flfshldd’ered
followed her gaze. He shuddered
Now, Alice, you know I can t
,n any more
land, he pleaded,
er k P s seemea to fold inside
themselves, but her eyes
rema^ned s °f { , a^ a be lo° k cd over
lhe green-dad lulls.
A . Rs SUDDERN had very
M j efl ;a e 7 v ne v e r given away
anvth f n e „ h {“7; life Know-
iedge ?ha the may htve done
„ ‘, 0 „ d named her
S ° n ? W would nave pamea n
she tdthefkneW no’
ed- She neither Knew, nor
T , , , ith in th . m „i ves
and T he lr‘vi ew "and a renewal of
• Jd se ifl sa ti s faction were
th ver Dennv G f seventeen-
nounds len ' t o Mum and Dad
hat Mrs Suddern poc ket
tbe money under a misapprehen-
s j on was beside the point,
without a word Mum moved
towards the tea-canister and
Dad began to multiply and sub-
tract on his fingers. But not
eve n long-multiplication would
make the almost new two-
wheeler in the sports-store less
than eighteen-ten.
It was to be one or the other ;
and Dad’s glance gave me the
privilege of deciding for myself,
They all say it’s better to give
than receive. I agree. Especially
when you may be in the running
for a motorbike in a few more
years.


FRA UDS
fljjichard Al*fiti§|©n
A wonderful historical portrait gallery of hoaxers of
their fellow-men,
At all booksellers - - • 26/- .
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : s AUCKLAND
The Book That Everybody is Talking About
THE TURN OF THE TIDE
Arthur Bryant
The sensational war diaries of Lord Alanbrooke that reveal the inside story of
the conduct of the war will be available soon. COMPLETE AND
UNABRIDGED from all booksellers
Over 75,000 sold already—order your copy now
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
COAST TO COAST
Australian Short Stories of Today
selected by H. Drake,-Brockman.
17/6 (post 9d.)
SUNSHINE AND SHADOW
The Autobiography of Mary Pickford.
Illustrated.
31/- (post 1/6)
PRIMITIVE ART
by Erwin O. Christensen *
Over 400 illustrations, 02 in colour.
83/- (post 3/4)
A BOOK OF BRITAIN
An Anthology of Words and Pictures
compiled by John Hadfteld.
26/- (post 1/4)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlerea gh St., SYDNEY
66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C.l
THE BIBLE AS HISTORY
by
Dr. WERNER KELLER
Translated by Dr. William Neil
432 Pages. 132 Illustrations and Maps
ARCHEOLOGY CONFIRMS THE BOOK OF BOOKS
Retail Price in Australia 37/3 (postage extra)
Obtainable from all Booksellers
HODDER & STOUGHTON LTD.
Gulf of Paria, and claimed to have
seen an island across Trinidad, to be
able to say:—
After a library-navigator had
figured out that he [Columbus]
couldn’t possibly have seen Tobago,
we sighted it in 1940 from the top-
gallant-yard of our Capitana when
in a position very near the Admiral’s
in 1498.
Or again, for the reader to whom
“beating” and “tacking” are barely-
understandables, the set of close zig-
zags going eastwards along the top
of Honduras in the map on page 184
give some idea of what it was like to
sail against a tempest in ships even
less well-equipped for sailing into the
wind than those of today.
On the other hand, Admiral
Morison’s navigational exactitudes are
always showing Columbus up.
Columbus thought that by sailing west
he would strike Japan. He was always
sailing round the islands of the Indies
and annoyingly missing America. It
was not until his third voyage that he
got into the Gulf of Paria, and then it
looked so little like what he expected
of Asia that he refused to believe it
was a continent at all. Finally he
accepted it, but only on condition that*
it was the Garden of Eden' . . . His
geographic theory was all wet; he
miscalculated the size of the world and
the distance from Spain to America;
he miscalculated the distances he sailed
every day ... In all this he was no
worse than others of his times; but it
was not only this —he could set out his
problem correctly and then fail in
adding-up the figures!
And yet Admiral Morison thinks
Columbus the greatest mariner ever,
and for the very good American reason
that Columbus always got there. His
mistakes cancelled each other out or
put him in an even better position; as
he didn’t know where he was going,
it was an advantage to arrive some-
where else; and he was a wonderful
instinctive seaman, as when he told
the overbearing Ovando that it was
going to blow and Ovando jeered, and
it blew and scattered his fleet.
It is in the treatment of the subjuga-
tion of Columbus to Bobadilla and
Ovando, of Ovando’s merciless and
treacherous delay in relieving the old
man marooned on Jamaica, and of
some of the scenes ashore, that one
misses the fiery artistry of Madariaga,
especially in that picture of Columbus
as an inspired prophet, abandoned by
men, that played so well up to
Madariaga’s Jewish theory ...
But one must confess oneself a little
seasick with following Columbus in any
text, except the poems by William
Hart-Smith, which grow better every
year. Before one packs one’s sea-chest
for another four-voyage season in
prose one will need to be assured that
it is to check on a theory that, while
marooned on Jamaica, Columbus
passed the time writing a series of plays
which, dug up a century later by English
buccaneers, were taken to London and
translated as the plays of William
Shakspeare.
Reviewed Briefly
The Great Betrayal: Dorothy
Gardiner (Hammond). Here is a
vigorous Western, a true story of the
Indian wars, based on sound historical
records and related in a sure and con-
vincing manner. In 1864 in the Pike’s
Peak region of Colorado a whole
village of Indians was massacred by
Colonel Chivington and his Hundred
Dazers (soldiers who signed for 100
days). The events that led to this
so-called battle of Sand Creek, the
engagement itself and its repercussions
make enthralling reading.
* * * *
Goonoo Goonoo: Frank O’Grady
(Cassell). The settlement of the Peel
River district in Northern N.S.W. in
the middle of last century is the back-
ground for this naive story of love and
adventure. Frank O’Grady has an
easy, unaffected style and he knows the
sheep-country; but he seems to have no
power to evoke the atmosphere of the
past or to bring to mind with any force
the trials of the pioneers and the
conditions under which they worked.
* * * *
Polo in New Zealand: K. M. Little
(Whitcombe and Tombs). Mr. Little
has a lively introduction in which he
reminds us that Shakspeare was
interested in the dancing horse,
Marocco, which was put to death for
witchcraft; that polo appears to have
originated in Persia; that both the
Chinese and the New Zealanders
(once) have played it on donkeys; and
that Lieut.-Commander A. E. Harford,
who helped to start polo in New
Zealand —the most important influ-
ence was Robert Stewart Savile —was
immortalised by “Banjo” Paterson in
“The. Amateur Rider.” The bulk of
the book, illustrated with photographs,
is a survey of the various N.Z. polo-
clubs and a history of outstanding
players, horses, matches and incidents.
* * * *
Pavilioned in Splendour: A. A.
Thomson (Museum Press). After
Cardus, to whom the book is dedicated,
Thomson is probably the best literary
stylist writing on cricket; and, as in
his earlier books, he again combines
interesting material with graceful
expression. It is, however, mainly of
English cricket and cricketers, and m
particular of his own Yorkshire and
his boyhood heroes from that county,
Rhodes, Hirst and Haigh. Up to the
end of the 1955 English season only,
the book could well have been briefly
brought up-to-date here and there
regarding the 1956 Tests—his forecast,
for instance, that England was going
to suffer severely in 1956 from the bat
of Neil Harvey didn’t, unfortunately,
come true.
* * * *
Dead Man’s Folly: Agatha Christie
(Collins). Somebody did somebody in
ip the boat-house at the garden-party
during a murder-game in which Poirot
was to give the prizes. It is amiable but
all a little watery,
AUTUMNAL
There is no splendor,
No grace, when we
Embrace our hidden
Eternity.
In a moment unsignalled
Death flicks aside
All the long labor,
The passionate pride.
Though pain has tortured,
Or the dark blood flowed,
Dumb are the bugles
By Calvary’s road.
Earth and heaven .
Die better far
With foliage burning
And falling star;
With suns and maples
Scarlet in proud
Processional music
Of lead and cloud,
While liquid-ambers
Their ending proclaim
On bronzen ’cellos
And trumpets of flame.
Death and resurgent
Nature agree
On this autumnal
Conspiracy.
No springtide blesses
Our fleshless bone,
Like the green in the birches’
Yellow foreknown.
Oh a thousand passings
Have elm and sun ;
The lord of the atom
Is doomed to one.
a.c.t.
T. INGLIS MOORE.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 426
Across
I—Emotional1 —Emotional painfuiness makes the
swine swallow nothing given by
a girl. (9)
6—Hazardous for the king-emperoi
by heaven! (5)
8 — This makes one kiss the East
cutter. (3)
9 Starves nothing by an Italian
opera composer set badly above
parliaments. (9)
10 —Possibly a heart action brought in
court. (4)
12 — So a girl hides a sort of opal.
(7)
13 — This makes a famous Indian
faster. (6)
H —Don’t leave a rope one in a pig-
pen. (4)
I"—Obstruction of a stream in People
St. (8) . .
19— Zoologists are interested in such
a turned-in thousand, and all
Kipling’s poem on the East.
(6, 4)
20— A victim of the Pied Piper is
back in the ancient Irish capital.
22 Nine things need an arrangement.
(6) .
23 — Hunter’s catch ends an innings,
but pass the equipment com-
mended to fieldsmen who don t
take chances with a purse. (7>
25 —Nameless back is a girl. (4)
27 Elcorla, an Australian country-
town girl. (9)
28— No one shows low-level spiritual
activity in the Pacific Islands. (3)
29 — Split spice. (5)
30— Continues after spelling sum-
maries. (7)
Down
1 — But the Stock Exchange isn’t
interested in such farm equip-
ment. (12)
2 Drunkenness can be transposed
into Iberian. (11)
3 Knobby without a “shot” of
medicine. (6)
4 Underhand sewers are first, quite
unnecessarily. (10)
5 Country town says differently. (4)
6 Again makes an impression upon
the remainder with a legislator’s
ruffled press-mat. (8)
7 Many a Pole finishes with this
desirable travel equipment at the
pole. (3)
11 —Put a former N.S.W. Premier’s
name on a cheque before you
get older ways for the dumb to
communicate. (4, 8)
14— Buck Williams provides these
notes. (6, 5)
15 — Improper slights for sportswear.
(4, 6)
18 —Mine is made harmless by this
round which is pretty good to a
weathercock. (8)
21 —A name for the nameless one
with no colleague for Bardolph
and Pistol. (3)
24 —Injury obtained when cars are
smashed? (4)
26—Frank king has nothing to do.
O)
Solution to Crossword No. 425


Their dreams have
gone up m smoke, too
Fire has robbed them of their home, their possessions, their
peace of mind. It could just as easily have been an
explosion, a storm or a semi-trailer crashing into their home.
The real tragedy is this. Their dreams need not have gone
up in smoke if they had been adequately insured.
How long is it since you have looked at the Policies you hold for the
insurance of your home and its contents? Have you put it away in a safe
place and forgotten the need to bring it up to date?
Has your insurance kept pace with the rising costs of property, furniture, linen,
clothing and jewellery? Make sure that your home and personal effects are not
*
under-insured by calling in your local A.C.A. representative. He will advise
you of the right amount of insurance to take out and at the same time show
you how to protect your dreams and happiness against the constant threats
and risks to property with an A.C.A. Houseowner's and Householder's Policy.
This flexible policy insures you, at a surprisingly low cost, against the losses
you can suffer from storm and tempest, fire, hail, smoke, impact by vehicles,
breaking and entering and from a large number of other perils.
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(INCORPORATE! IN NEW SOUTH WALES)
HEAD OFFICE: A.CA. Building, 66 King St„ Sydney. 'Phone
BX 2165.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
wm
WmmM
.. : .
■FT j®F
f i« -•‘ v
wi»SP
ym&mm
1
liar *m
9 L»I& . *', '• :
■
■
jU I |
.•■'Or
:
*
#l
If. H
nhi
mm
mmm-
:
Mm H
H
tsiiii
-
a®*®!*/’',
.
V
am -e!»«
££•»s
«i
pi^p' ::> B
i
111 11
■
.
.1 i
A}
iWSS
fig
SKSHS
m
: ■ .
£Sr;£
>■-
ss*?!Sfesv
111 i
nn
#1 '«%£«
I 1 i •
,T:,
BPS; :TX \7.^««"'3Bjj
&'■£'-?£ toko
tfel 'yMx- t* k i i
>1..;
r w
Hf . *
...-'
!>:;• -
mfee
■ ■■■: :
Sill
■:**::
\ a-
■
fißWiil
: j .'A--,
ISH
V 'Xy-4 :'■■'■
• '* • • ■»
..
;:<■ f.vf,-. ■
■
mm
: :
B
i*. j
MwMm
; v-
V- ;; '
*.(.». POLICIES
ARE «OOD POLICIES - GET YOURS TO-DAY!
