

/
e
SOLEHO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
The Battle of the Bible— page 32
Wednesday, September 4, 1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
THE PHAROS, A SURVIVAL FROM
ROMAN TIMES, DOVER,
FOR nearly two thousand years the Roman lighthouse, known
as The Pharos, has withstood the ravages of time, and it has
.survived two world wars. Today it still stands defiantly on
Castle Hill, overlooking Dover Harbour, and is a monument to the
skill of its builders. It is one of the most remarkable Roman
structures in Northern Europe and is probably the oldest standing
building in Britain.
Its original purpose was that of watch-tower and beacon to guide
Roman shipping into Dover Harbour, and it formed one of a pair,
of which the companion was sited on the western heights between
Castle Hill and Shakespeare Cliff. At one time it also served as
a bell-tower to the Saxon church of St. Mary-in-Castra, beside which
it stands; in the background are the towers of Dover Castle.
The Romans settled in the valley beside the River Dour
and built a fortified town about the year a.d. 50 which they called
Dubra. Building operations were under the charge of the Roman
general Aurelus Platus, who imported stone building material from
across the Channel. In order to assist the navigators of these
ships he first built the lighthouse on the hill above and used for
this purpose blocks of the local material called tufa, which was
dug up in the valley of the River Dour, and interlocked with
mortar and tiles made from local clay.
The Roman occupation lasted for more than three and a
half centuries, and following their departure in a.d. 410 little
is known of Dover for 650 years. It was occupied by the Angles,
Jutes and Saxons, and during this period nearly all trace of the
Roman civilisation, except the Pharos, was destroyed. As a result
of the second world war, however, when almost five hundred bombs
and over 2000 shells landed in the city, other Roman traces were
discovered. ,
No. 365: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt .


WIN SUCCESS
AS A WRITER ...
STOTT’S CAN TRAIN YOU AT HOME.
Successful Stott-trained Writers contribute regu-
larly to the press. Note just a few extracts
from Students* letters:
During the last six months my acceptances
have returned me over £200.-”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the amount
of £lO6/10/9.”
earnings from my Writing total about
“I have received another cheque for a story
of 900 words. This puts me about £6 ahead of
the outlay for the Course."
“During the Course 1 sold five stories which
more than paid for my fees."
Leam more about this fascinating and profit-
able spare-time method of earning bv sending
the coupon—without cost nr obligation of any
kind—for Stott’s Free T.itorarv Prospectus
indenceCi
Idn luisspll si., Meioourne: j-ty Castlereairh St..
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St.. Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St.. Adelaide; 254 Murray St.. Perth.
| —’CUT AND HAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without anv obli
Ration, your Prospectus, and full particulars ot
your Literary Courses.
I MY NAME
j ADDRESS
(S.B. 1757) AGE....
BOOKHCNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, ete. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
AUSTRALIAN VERSE
Can you, with propriety, put the
bush balladists (and the light rhymes
of C. J. Dennis) into an anthology of
Australian poetry?
On the one hand the balladists do
exist, and have their virtues, which are
of life and the soil; on the other hand,
as is shown in Judith Wright’s New
Land New Language (Oxford), you do
get a most alarming bump when you
drop, say, from John Blight’s macabre
fantasy of cats and convicts and
cat-o’-nine-tails—
“lt would have done this deed;
remember that,
Convict rat. It would have done,
the same!”
He fondled with steeled heart
Milady’s Cat . . .
to our stout but naive old friend “The
Wild Colonial Boy”:
He was his father’s only hope, his
mother’s only joy,
And dearly did his parents love the
wild Colonial boy.
On the whole it seems that the
balladists should be invited to join the
party-after all, they helped a great
deal to find the food and drink for it
—but they should probably, as they
are not here, be sat below the salt
somewhere, in a separate compartment.
There is too much confusion of values
when all the guests are mixed up
together.
But this is not said altogether as a
criticism of “New Land New
Language.” In her previous, official
anthology for the Oxford University
Press Judith Wright was criticised by
some reviewers for omitting the
balladists, and it would hardly be fair
to reproach her now, in this new
anthology for children, for putting them
in. It is just a matter of finding the
right paddock for them.
This little book does, in fact, atone
for some regrettable omissions in the
bigger anthology—Louis Esson’s “The
Old Black Billy” and Wolf Fairbridge’s
“Consecration of the House,” for
example. And if there are omissions
here—FitzGerald, Kenneth Mackenzie
and A. D. Hope; Gellert, Biggs and
Eric Irvin amongst the war-poets —it
can always be replied that most of
these are rectified in the earlier volume.
It is likely enough, too, that very little
of A. D. Hope’s verse is suitable for
children. But one remains surprised at
the omission of Fitz Gerald and
Mackenzie; and a place should certainly
have been found amongst the balladists
for Will Ogilvie, who was in many ways
the most charming of them all.
But once again one does not wish
to criticise too much; nor to go too far
into the question of to what extent her
pattern of describing various phases of
the national fife in the anthology has
forced Judith Wright into occasional
inferior selections: for on the whole
this is a sound and delightful book
and one that, despite its limitation to
poems that will appeal to children,
should also please adult readers—and
with every justification.
It includes many of the most delight-
ful poems in recent Australian writing:
Judith Wright’s own “Bullocky” and
“South of My Days” (it is time “Wonga
Vine” and “The Bull” also had
an airing in anthologies); David
Campbell’s “Ariel” and “Hany
Pearce”; Rosemary Dobson’s “Detail
from an Annunciation by Crivelli”
(“Child with a Cockatoo” would also
have been most suitable); an extract
(though not the most effective) from
Francis Webb’s “A Drum for Ben
Boyd”; William Hart - Smith’s
“Columbus Goes West”; Hal Porter’s
“The Sheep”; Roland Robinson’s “The
Tea-tree and the Lyrebird”; Eve
Langley’s “Native Bom”; John Mani-
fold’s “The Tomb of Lieut. John
Learmonth, A.1.F.”; Val Vallis’s
“Michael.” And it mingles with these,
as well as Paterson and Lawson, an
equally discriminating selection of old
favorites from Harpur’s “Midsummer
Noon” to McCrae’s “Colombine,”
Shaw Neilson’s “The Orange Tree,”
Mary Gilmore’s ploughland-poem, the
best pieces of Brennan and on to
Furnley Maurice’s “Victoria Markets”
and a rich selection from Slessor. The
standard anthology-pieces are varied
with lesser-known ones, and there are
some engaging surprises such as Peter
Hopegood’s “First Aid” and (though it
really belongs in an infants’ book)
Dennis’s “The Ant Explorer.”
In an official anthology like the big
Oxford one Judith Wright was obliged
to consider all sorts of writers because,
as Mallory said of Everest, “they are
there.” Here she has been free to
enjoy herself; and, because enjoyment
has a great deal to do with the
durability of poetry, she has also been
free to make what may well be a firmer
selection. This is not, of course,
the “final,” definitive Australian
anthology; but, as the excellent modem
poems rub shoulders with the best of
the past, and both rub together
through time, we do begin to get a
glimpse of what the ideal anthology
will look like.
D.S.
Some Penguins
It was a valuable contribution
Bertrand Russell made to philosophy
when he pointed out the difference
between knowledge by acquaintance
and knowledge by description, but it
makes things very awkward for a
reviewer, especially when he gets a
batch of Penguins covering almost
every subject it is possible to imagine.
A reviewer never has the slightest
hesitation in dashing off a review of
a book on Freud before lunch and
another on Einstein before dinner; but
it would never have entered Freud’s
head that he was competent to review
Einstein’s mathematics, any more than
it would have entered Einstein’s head
that he was competent to review Freud’s
theory of the unconscious . . .
Fortunately the present reviewer has
had acquaintance of the subject-matter
of at least one of the new Penguins—
Patients and Doctors, by Kenneth
Walker. Having had a long, intimate
and expensive acquaintance with
doctors as a patient he picked up
“Patients and Doctors” in the expecta-
tion of finding another, like the dozens
he consulted during twenty years of
sickness, still firmly clinging to the
medieval belief in physical causes as
the explanation of the thousand-and-
one ailments with which humanity is
afflicted.
He was pleasurably surprised to find
that Dr. Walker was a most enlightened
member of his profession, as unlike the
myriads of physicians, surgeons and
specialists in ears and noses and the
nervous-system who had drenched and
dosed and sawn him up as well could
be.
As Dr. Walker says, there is some-
thing ridiculous about specialism in
(“Red Page ” continued on page 58)


ANTHONY-?HORDERNS'
PHONE B 0951, BOX 2712.
'‘While ! Live t’il Crow”
WE PAY GOODS TRAIN FREIGHT to any
Railway Station in I.SJ. and guarantee safe delivery
BOURKE
ARMIDAII
KEMPSEY
IAMWORTH
TAREi
BROKEN HILL
DUBBO
IVANHOF
NEWCASTLE
BATHURST
WFNTWORTH
«« «
HAY
CANBERRA
At Bury
COOMA
"What an opportunity to buy that furniture . . . those
furnishings, floor coverings and manchester you've been
wanting but hesitated to order because of the high
freight charges. For one month . . . ALL THE MONTH OF
SEPTEMBER . . . Anthony Horderns’ will pay freight to any Railway
Station in New South Wales, will guarantee you safe delivery, of your
goods . . . Make your list NOW . . : mail it to Anthony Horderns'
«. . and your order will be on its way FREIGHT FREE*
POST ORDERS TO ANTHONY HORDERNS’, BOX 2712, C.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Sept. 4, 1957
Vol. 78 — No. 4047
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathans Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE PHONY LIBERAL
THE implications of the situation of
the Federal Labor party’s leadership
reach far outside the party itself. A
sane man must shudder at the thought
that this desperate totalitarian, catch-
as-catch-can dictatorship could again
secure control of the Commonwealth.
Dr. Evatt’s merit in the eyes of his
immediate admirers, the pretext on
which he has been offered for sale to
moderate men, is that he is a “great
liberal”: one who has always been a
fighter for freedom of speech, religion
and political action.
He has always spoken for what
Labor calls the “underdog” on the
basis that freedom of action, thought
and speech through all the normal
range of living is an inherent right of
human-beings. He has justified the
right of the foreign-directed Communist
to sabotage war-industry, to make
seditious speeches, to plot against
recruiting, to‘ conspire for the over-
throw of the existing system. He has
demanded liberty of action for Com-
munists in particular and for everybody
opposed to authority in the name of the
“British justice,” which those he has
championed desire to overthrow.
The spectacle of Dr. Evatt and his
Prsetorian guard applying his principles
to the case of Dr. Evatt are, therefore,
instructive if not edifying.
In the past two or three years he has
done everything possible to destroy his
party, following an un-Australian line
whenever there is one to follow, offend-
ing large sections of the electors,
alienating the support of men who had
been his most devoted followers. He
has trusted nobody but Molotov and
those who draw (or drew) their
inspiration from him.
He is, in fact, in a situation in which
it might be expected that a Great
Liberal would concede that there was
ample room for difference and debate
about his viewpoints and actions, and
even for an open test—which he need
not fear if his support is solid —of
whether he is still acceptable as leader.
His reactions, however, are no differ-
ent from those which are usually
observable in Moscow in similar
circumstances. At the beginning of the
long' Donnybrook he alleged that a
large religious section which has
always held a powerful influence, and
sometimes the major influence, within
the party was plotting to capture it. So
out with the “clerical Fascists”!
The same applied to men who
differed with him on the . matter of
foreign policy, his own policy being in
line with that of Moscow and that of
his opponents in line with that of the
average, decent Australian, men like
Gordon Anderson, the mild and kindly
ex-member for Kingsford Smith, who
was replaced by the raucous and
ranting Dan Curtin, on whom his
keepers play as on a braying saxo-
phone, since he has no ideas of his own.
Gradually the foes of Evattism have
closed-in and the final scenes are being
enacted. They are not being enacted as
one might expect in the light of Dr.
Evatt’s past (sometimes tearful) profes-
sions of the faith in freedom of speech
and conscience.
They will not be. if he can manage
it, within the precincts even of the
caucus at whose hands he accepted the
leadership.
What is happening is very much like
a scene in a dark street in a slum run
by local bosses with the aid of knuckle-
dusters. The bullies of the A.L.P.
executive, elected bf the most limited
body of inner juntas and in the most
curious fashions, have been called in
to form a ring round the Great Liberal
and lambast his opponents into
servility—or else cast their bleeding
political bodies into the gutter.
On the eve of the meeting of Parlia-
ment these fine large fellows appeared
out of the blue in Canberra, their
leader, Mr. Chamberlain, bellowing
threats. A vote-of-confidence in Dr.
Evatt was passed as a warning to
caucus, which was informed in effect
that its members were not free to cast
votes within Parliament House, or to
choose a leader within Parliament
House, except in accordance with the
specific command of an external
junta. At the same time the Western
Australian A.L.P. executive decided to
refer to the Federal executive the
attack by Mr. H. V. Johnson, M.P.,
on Dr. Evatt, and, no doubt with the
shadow of Mr. Chamberlain, the
Federal president, looming over it, it
passed a vote-of-confidence in the
Doctor. It asked the Federal executive
to exercise its own and its political
leader’s liberalism by reminding the
Federal executive of a Federal-
conference decision conferring on it
powers of punishment of Federal
members. And with this request the
Federal executive hastened to move
into position to comply.
It was obvious from Monday, August
26, onwards that any M.P. who dared
to so much as raise a finger against Dr.
Evatt might pay for it. Such members
as were in Canberra on the Tuesday
had a cowed air and sealed lips after
the Federal executive had delegated its
strong-arm officials to draw up a report.
This is to cover, it seems, alternative
methods of silencing free-speech,
inhibiting free Constitutional action
and punishing disobedience by M.P.s
involved to the orders of their self-
appointed masters.
The first alternative suggested is not
so objectionable, save as it implies
outside control of a body of Parlia-
mentarians. It merely involves the
browbeating, bullying and threatening
of opponents of Dr. Evatt into voting
for him so as to inflict a crushing defeat
on the mover of any motion of no-
confidence—this followed, of course, by
reprisals which will drive the dissidents
out of political life.
The second is to call for the expul-
sion of those who propose to use their
undoubted rights to move in caucus
for the supersession of a leader elected
in caucus, thus depriving them of the
right to enter caucus to move their
resolutions. If this principle is to be
applied to a Labor party which later
holds the government of the country,
then Parliamentary government will be
at an end.
There are two ways in which the
expulsions could be achieved—by
asking the local branches to do it, thus
passing the buck, or by applying Rule
9, which gives the Federal executive
the powers of a dictatorship of the
proletariat—“plenary powers to decide
any matter,” which in the opinion of
at least seven members affects the
general welfare of the Labor move-
ment.
Thus the executive could suspend the
recalcitrants to prevent them putting
forward their motion. This could ruin
them for having even contemplated
action. It could deprive them of all
the rights for which Dr. Evatt has
consistently claimed to fight with every
fibre of his being. (As it turns out, in
the present case the State executives
have been asked to do the dirty-work.)
It is time the press and others who
frame public opinion clarified such
situations so that there should be no
misunderstanding about where the
viewpoint of Dr. Evatt and his strong-
arm men has been cemented into the
political framework of Labor. They
are ruthless totalitarians who will brook
no Constitutional opposition to their
views. They are a danger to the Aus-
tralian Constitution and to the freedoms
of which Dr. Evatt professes to be the
champion and protector.


THE LEATHER-MEDAL


PLAIN ENGLISH
Trade with Japan
It isn’t surprising that the representatives
of the Chambers of Manufactures should
be up in arms against the Japanese trade-
agreement ; that is their traditional atti-
tude towards any move that tends to
increase the inflow of manufactured
goods. Nor is it strange that their fears
should be shared by those trade-unions
whose members are employed in the
industries most likely to feel the impact
of Japanese competition. It is probably
true that the majority of people feel some
uneasiness at the treaty ; partly through
memories of the war and partly through
recollections of floods of cheap, low-
quality Japanese goods which have
invaded this country on occasions in the
past.
The first of these reasons is the less
important; if we see no harm in selling
to our former enemy we can scarcely
quibble at buying from him. The real
reason is the fear that competition from
Japan may run some of our manufac-
turers out of business and cause
unemployment.
The Government was obviously con-
scious of this throughout the negotiations
for the treaty ; hence the safeguards which
Mr. McEwen claims have been written
into the agreement. These have been dis-
counted by the Opposition, but the fact
that there are protective clauses in the
treaty should be reassuring to manu-
facturers and workers for two reasons —
firstly as an indication that they have
not been sold down the river for the sake
of building-up export-markets for primary
products, and secondly because those
provisions in the treaty must make the
Japanese Government aware that if they
want to build-up an enduring export-trade
to Australia they will have to see that no
section of Australian industry is seriously
threatened by imports from Japan.
This is a matter that will not be easy to
determine; there will be difficulties at
both ends. But in his speech on the agree-
ment Mr. McEwen made out a strong
case for giving it a try.
He made the point that Japan had
become so important to us as a buyer
(£425-million-worth in the past five
years, against £65-million-worth sold to
us) that our economy would be very
vulnerable to any violent fluctuations in
that buying. The agreement aims to give
stability to the relationship. The Minister
claims that through tariff and foreign-
exchange undertakings given by the
Japanese Government our wool-market
there has been secured for the next three
years, that wheat, barley and sugar
exports should increase, and that there
should also be openings for other pro-
ducts.
Dr. Evatt and the Labor party have
decided to oppose the agreement in its
entirety. This is an astounding attitude
to be taken by a man and a party who
prate in season and out of season about
lriendship and closer relations with the
people of Asia.
A plea for more safeguards would be
understandable; complete opposition is
not, particularly from a source that advo-
cates increased trade with Communist
China. Dr. Evatt protests against the
treaty on the grounds that Japan is a low-
wage country. What is China? If all
we have been hearing about that country
is true it won’t be long before Chinese
textiles are undercutting Japanese. But
perhaps when Dr. Evatt talks of trade
with Red China he’s only thinking in
terms of li-chee nuts.
Rank Rebellion
The rebellion of suburban shopkeepers
—and shop-assistants—-in Melbourne and
Sydney against the tyranny of union
dictatorships is symptomatic of the times,
and has a deeper meaning, apparently,
than it seems to have on the surface.
Before the war Friday-night shopping
was a sort of weekly family festival.
Then great panjandrums like Alderman
Ernie O’Dea, who combined the offices
of the Lord Mayor of Australia’s biggest
city and the secretaryship of the Shop
Assistants’ Union, got to work, issued
their ukases in Victoria and N.S.W.,
and, with Labor Governments, their word
was law.
At first it was argued that nobody—
not even the shopkeepers—wanted late-
night shopping ; then that to restore it
would be invading the sacred principle
of the 40-hour week.
But gradually the dam has been
weakening. Last Friday two Melbourne
suburbs rebelled against the union edict
and the repressive law, and the denoue-
ment was a riot of record trading. The
crowds were so large that the traffic was
a problem.
It was all, of course, against the law,
which was broken by everybody involved,
including the shop-employees, who
disregarded union orders and discipline.
During the weekend it was announced
that the large Sydney seaside suburb of
NEW ELECTRONIC
WORLD—page 20
Manly was organising a similar rebellion
—news which deeply shocked Mr. O’Dea
and the N.S.W. Minister for Labor and
Industry, Mr. J. J. Maloney.
Mr. Maloney said grimly that shop-
keepers would “run into trouble if they
tried to stay open on Friday nights”:
They can rest assured that the depart-
ment will take legal action if they try it.
Mr. O’Dea is equally grim, or more
so. He says that the public can be sure
that his union “will not take this from
Manly shopkeepers.” By “union” he
apparently means the union’s dictatorship
and not the unionists, who, if the shops
open, will have proved that they certainly
will take it.
Mr. O’Dea adds that “shopkeepers who
permit their employees to break the law
are a bad type of citizen. Such shop-
keepers should not squeal if later their
employees, having been taught to break
the law, take it out of'their employers.”
It is good to have these principles laid
down so clearly. The Employers’ Federa-
tion should have them written on a
brass-plate and presented to Mr. O Dea
and Mr. Maloney in a public meeting,
with an extra copy or two to hand to
the A.C.T.U. and the Trades and Labor
Councils.
State employees, particularly in the
Manly district, where bus-strikes are
standard practice, have been breaking the
law with impunity on the largest possible
scale with the connivance of the Gov-
ernment and union-leadership, and so
have the employees in dozens of other
unions, sometimes to serve the subversive
purposes of the Communists. But neither
Mr. Cahill nor Mr. Maloney, nor even
Mr. O’Dea, has found it necessary to
prosecute the flagrant law-breakers in
the industrial field under the aegis of the
union-leaderships. It is their theory that
these extra-legal juntas make the law,
and that State law is a convenience for
their use and to be enforced only for
their purposes —which are to promote loaf
and discontent and the class-war and
treat the man who wants to work instead
of listening to the races of a Saturday
as a criminal.
Why they should object to Friday-night
shopping till 9 p.m. for groceries and
clothes by a sober family while they
permit and encourage shopping every
week-night—shopping for alcohol till an
hour or so later—logic can scarcely
explain.
The rebellion on Friday-night shopping
is a healthy sign of the times. It is a
sign that the public is once more develop-
ing a mind of its own, even among
unionists, who are growing tired of
Leftist regimentation which cuts down
their earning-power and their living-
standard.
Wealthy Lord Mayors
It is unfortunately true, as an A.L.P.
member remarked without rancor at
the induction of Cr. Frederick Thomas
as Melbourne’s new Lord Mayor, that
only the wealthy (or, rather, the well-off)
can now afford to accept the post, and
that a man’s financial capacity is not an
acceptable criterion for a post of this
sort.
Proceedings in the City Council are
usually gentlemanly, reptile tactics being
confined to election contests between
sitting and non-sitting non-Labor candi-
dates on one hand and the A.L.P. and
D.L.P. on the other; so the A.L.P. man
made it clear he meant no reflection on
the new Ludmayor or the departing one,
Sir Frank Selleck. Labor interest in the
Lord Mayoralty allowance is academic,
since it is very much in the minority in
the council, but it was well-taken for the
governing (Civic) group.
Cr. Thomas is, in fact, just about an
ideal candidate, and he was elected
unanimously without opposition. His
family have been long-established flour-
millers ; he was a Citizen Air Force
trainee, a Group-Captain in the war
(including A.O.C. Townsville during the


Coral Sea Battle); he had a term in the
diplomatic circus at Washington as one
of the R.A.A.F.’s representatives, and he
js now managing-director of the family
business.
Yet he did not get into the City Council
until 1953, and it is obvious that a
number of experienced councillors, with
personal prestige, administrative ability
and years of service, have had to stand
aside because they could not afford
some thousands of pounds from their
private purse to supplement the allowance
of £BOOO a year.
Half of this amount goes each year in
the junketing at the Lord Mayor’s Ball
and banquet, leaving the Lord Mayor
£BO a week to keep the bar and buffet
open and to cater for distinguished
visitors and occasions such as the visit
of the Queen Mother or the Olympics.
The allowance, which was £4OOO in
1947, has not kept pace with inflation,
and unless the councillors devise a less
financially onerous means of dispensing
the city’s hospitality, it may, within a
year or two, be difficult to find a candi-
date for the honored post and the usual
knighthood, which is well earned in
itself by the full-time service to the city.
The Big Noise
It was normal timing that the Kremlin
should come out with its announcement
that it had perfected a monstrous ballistic
weapon of world range at a moment
when it had destroyed the hopes even of
the most naive American negotiators
that a disarmament agreement was
possible. The announcement came on
the eve of savage abuse of the Western
Powers.
This kind of statement from Moscow
has become hackneyed, but never loses
its effectiveness, since the capitalist press
in the main treats it as gospel, and
Governments are compelled to take it
seriously.
At the beginning of the Hitler period
the world began to hear from Moscow
that Russia had the most up-to-date army
in the world, the most powerful air force,
far in advance of any other nation. It
was usual, in the “Moscow News" (the
external propaganda organ of the
Kremlin), round 1936-39, to read stories
of how one of the powerful Red Army
bomber-squadrons could have sailed over
Berlin and in a few moments or minutes
laid the whole nest of Nazism under a
rubble landscape. These tales became
more circumstantial and intensified as
time went on, and they were not exploded
till Russia became involved in war with
Germany.
Russia proved to have few effective
bombers and almost no mechanised
troops. The dying Russian was
Moscow’s secret weapon. The Krem-
lin admitted to 6,115,000 deaths from
all causes in war, plus 14,000,000
wounded, against 3,500,000 German
deaths on all fronts, with 7,250,000
wounded. At least half the German
casualties were on fronts other than the
Russian. The losses of these two nations
compare with the United States 408,000
deaths and 671,000 not mortally
wounded, a total casualty-list of under
1,100,000 among 16,000,000 troops
engaged.
The most significant fact about the
existing situation is that the U.S.S.R. has
&H.P. ANALYSIS—
page 27
succeeded, as usual, in selling the gullible
outside world what it wishes to sell it
by the use of an immense propaganda-
machine, half of it abroad and traitorous
to the countries in which sections of it
are lodged.
It has sold the idea that push-button
war will be the deciding factor, while
at the same time it is building-up
trained reserves, particularly in Russia,
for a manpower-war similar to that with
which it fought against the Germans. Its
weapons are certainly modern, but
nobody in the Western world knows any
more than the Man-in-the-moon what the
bulk of them are.
The Holmesian Touch
Charles Holmes, whose work as
managing-director of Australian National
Travel Association is better recognised in
Victoria because it was formed in Mel-
bourne, but whose efforts have been on a
national scale, retired last week with a
splendid record of getting, on a com-
parative shoestring budget, overseas
visitors to come to Australia.
The current spending by 60,000 overseas
visitors a year is £6 million, and Holmes
went out of office with the wistful remark
that if the Federal and State Governments
provided £150,000 a year, both could be
doubled.
Holmes was the protege of that genius
of travel and publicity, the late Sir Harold
Clapp, chairman of the Victorian Rail-
ways Commissioners, who lived before
his day and was regarded as an eccentric,
if not a freak, despite the vast improve-
ments he made in the railways and his
successful campaigns for primary-
producers faced with a glut.
Clapp established Holmes, who had
successfully inaugurated the Reso (the
first organised) tours of Central Aus-
tralia, in A.N.T.A. just before the depres-
sion ; and, despite the times, it was an
immediate success. A.N.T.A. was one of
the first organisations to establish a
travel-office in the U.S., where there are
now 38 countries represented, most of
which have budgets that make the Aus-
tralian very small beer indeed.
Scorning the £50,000 recently made
available by Canberra, Maurice Nathan,
who led the Sell Victoria mission to the
U.S., estimated on his return that at least
£500,000 should be made available by the
Federal Government to attract tourists,
and that £1 million would not be over-
much, since the Americans spent £5OO
million overseas in tours in 1955, and the
amount was increasing each year.
Probably Holmes during his retirement
will see his successor getting more
adequate funds from Canberra than ever
he could secure (since no one in the
Federal capital would have been down-
graded if he didn’t get a penny).
His achievements have been real,
and he can reflect with some satisfaction
on his own organisations and writings
overseas ; the establishment of “Walk-
about" ; the writing of one of the early
“best-seller" Australian travel-books, We
hud Australia; and the co-discovery, at
least for world-tourists, of the Barrier
Reef, the Gold Coast, Western Queens-
land and beyond, and, of course, Central
Australia.
Glory without Power
September, 1957, may be long remem-
bered in the history of the United Nations
Organisation, for the imminent meeting
of the Assembly should make it clear
whether U.N. is an instrument of
American and Russian policy or what it
sets out to be. The Assembly on
September 10 is to debate Hungary. -
The reputation of the body will stand
or fall by what it does about Hungary and
the Middle East. Its moral force will be
gone if it does not take some substan-
tive action in the face of the report of
its committee on the Hungarian atrocities
and the continual flouting in Hungary and
Syria of every principle that U.N. pro-
fesses to stand for.
Obviously, the controlling authorities
do not expect much action from the
meeting, though th§y are happy about
some minor matters, such as the opera-
tions of the Emergency Force on the
Gaza strip. Nothing is said, of course,
about the U.S. Sixth Fleet, or about the
continual dribble of dissension which
goes on round the borders of Egypt,
Syria, Jordan, Yemeh, Saudi Arabia and
Oman. Nothing about the failure of the
U.N. to stop the steady taking-over of
the area by the agents of the U.S.S.R.
In the light of what has happened, and
is happening—the U.S. Sixth Fleet is at
sea with all its might and has been
ordered to stay that way—U.N. has
become a very secondary affair. And
even the Secretary - General, Mr.
Hammarskjold, seems to recognise this.
Judging by his latest exposition of the
functions of the organisation, he has
invented a new U.N. to suit the helpless
condition of the body.
Glory without power has become the
motto, and the heads of the disunited
U.N. are content to sit back and confine
international discipline to finger-wagging
and the provision of a free political plat-
form for the world’s aggressors. Action
is merely token action from now on. In
the light of the history of the emergency-
troops of the Gaza zone, it will now be
possible to add a new group-term to the
historic ones (a gaggle of geese, a pride of
lions, etc.): a “junket of U.N. forces.”
The U.N. looks mortally ill. If it
cannot deal with the Middle East and
Hungary effectively its day is over.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
A CCORDING to the poetically minded
garden-writer in my daily journal,
songs, signs, flowers and scents already
proclaim the approach of spring. 1 had
noticed an even earlier sign—doubles-
charts from rival bookmaking firms have
been arriving since August 1, suggesting
that the opinion of the Ring is unanimous
that I’m an attractive risk.—“P.O.M.C.”
❖ ❖
“Mac Hoots”: I was delighted to learn
from the admirable Nature-talk in the
A.B.C. children's session that monkeys in
the U.S.A. are now able to operate a kind
of poker-machine. They feed plain disks
into the one-armed bandit, receive in
return various-colored chips which they
can cash in another machine for bananas
or peanuts or bread, and are perfectly
able to recognise the most valuable
counters —red, for bananas. It all
undoubtedly goes to prove that human
beings are as intelligent as monkeys.
❖ * *
“Pip Tok”: One must commend the
militant democracy displayed by Presi-
dent Soekarno of Indonesia in leading the
fatigue-party of volunteers who cleaned-
up the markets of Djakarta by removing
rubbish and rotting vegetables from the
footpaths. One can’t imagine a British
or Australian Prime Minister doing such
a thing—largely because in our non-
progressive capitalistic lands we don't
allow people to dump rubbish and rotting
vegetables on city pavements.
$ $
“Bicky”: Forthcoming visit of the Irish
Guards Band to Australia will be
welcomed by thousands. Military bands
are always fascinating to watch; one
thing that always intrigued me was the
ability of the musicians to play for five
minutes or more from a tiny piece of
music about 4in. by 6in. The secret,
I discovered when I became a bandsman
myself, is that each strain is repeated three
or four times during a performance. In
my first public performance the selection
played was “Over the Waves,” and my
contribution, as second tenor-horn, was
128 off-beat B-flats. Even this tuneful
waltz sounds drab when you have to play
the same note more than 100 times in
succession.
►> *
“Nunk”: It took some courage, but I
was one of the first to break away from
the old underpants that you used to have
to wear with your shirt tucked inside
them ; they had two tape loops on the
front through which you threaded them
to your braces, and so depended them
securely on your pants. The daring new
underpants, a speciality of a Sydney firm
in the early ’thirties, were for wear next
to the skin ; they had tapes through eye-
lets at each side by which they could be
adjusted to the waist; I think the makers
found them handy for using old scraps
of shirting ; 3s. 6d. a pair they were in
those days. I was faithful to these under-
pants long after the tapes had been super-
seded by short strips of elastic, which,
maybe because they were reminiscent of
women’s bloomers, I scorned ; but when
what are called in more delicate creatures
my vital statistics became 40, 46, 40,
something more tensile than tape seemed
necessary. And now the elastic goes all
the way around my underpants, which
also do away for the first time with the
buttons that were always coming loose in
the front: you just pull them on and
there they are. I doubt whether under-
pants can be simplified further—but
what a long time it’s taken to achieve this
finality!
♦>
“Doynest”: Secretaries of associations,
clubs and societies, like me, have all had
the experience—you work like blazes
preparing the agenda and sending out
notices, ringing-up members and urging
them to attend, and then the meeting
lapses for want of a quorum. So I have
a fellow-feeling for the secretary of the
Sheffield Cutlers (England) who spends
a couple of hours at his office on Bank
Holiday in August every year waiting
to record the minutes of a meeting which
hasn’t taken place for more than a
century. An Act of Parliament of 1791,
it seems, laid down that the Sheffield
Cutlers must meet on the first Monday in
August whether they want to or not, and
to date nobody’s got around to amending
the legislation.
"Dearest , for you I'd break through the sound-barrier upside-down
in a helicopter .”
THE SONG OF THE SHIFT
“Paris has ruled-out curves... -The shift-dress,
ruler-straight from shoulder to hem, skips the
bust-line, by-passes the waist and ignores the
hips.”
When lovely woman s fashions are
Tightened-in from top to bottom,
They prove that some have curves to
spare,
Also that others haven't got 'em ;
But plump or skinny, slow or swift,
Are equalised beneath a shift.
Gone is the ladyship of leisure,
For shiftless women will not do;
Girls must exchange the round of pleasure
For day-shifts and for night-shifts, too ;
And friends and followers get short
shrift
Who try to trifle with the shift.
Better to leave them, anyhow :
All bagged the same, the plain and
nifty,
They'll be completely dubious now
Who always were a little shifty —
But who will know unless we lift
The iron-curtain of the shift?
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


/CASTING an eye over a little piece
of printing I always keep beside me
to inform my mind during the TV- or
radio-commercials I came across a stun-
ning piece of information about TV itself.
Did you now that the moving images are
picked up by a postcard-size metal plate
in the camera, containing 315,000
electric-eyes which transmit their own
individual charges of electricity so fast
that they are transformed into 30 com-
plete images a second on the screen of
the receiver? Thus, a televised scene
requires the transmission of 10,450,000
signals a second. All this so that we may
see and hear a boy meet a girl and get a
block of flats for a custard-pie in the
smooch! —“Mugwump.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Doric”: There was a rush of offers
at our plumber’s shop when a New Aus-
tralian woman telephoned: “I vant for
you to send a man to put me in a new
bath.”
♦j*
“Tiddles”: The Yanks, who adapt the
unlikeliest studies to merchandising,
have produced a color-chart to aid paint-
sales by equating colors with occupations,
temperaments and everyday affairs.
Yellow and red are good for marriage-
proposals, blue and green to freeze-off an
undesirable suitor —but these are merely
what might be called “episodic colors” ;
they can proposition me again when they
find a color-combination that will resign
me to being married.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Doormat”: Observed the rector after
many years at it: “Sermons are like
throwing water over a lot of bottles; not
much gets in, especially when corked.”
He could have said “Full!”
»2« »I«
“Bagot”: You can hear it almost any-
where in Australia at nearly every hour:
the screeching of brakes, the screaming
of tyres, the gasping wail of the terrified
driver and the crashing of splintered
glass and mangled metal. Yes, if royalties
are paid, the sound-effects bloke who
created that lone radio car-smash record-
ing must have long since piled up a
fortune.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: Saw a young bank-clerk emerge
from his branch flaunting a sports-coat,
pale-green with large squares outlined
in pale yellow, on the way to do the
morning exchange with the other banks.
He was, of course, hatless and badly in
need of a haircut. Thick black hair was
in a tousled mass on his forehead and a
fag drooped from his lips. I was reminded
of a picture in the historical records of
one of the banks showing the exchange-
clerks of about 1880 setting off for the
bankers’ clearing-house. All were
moustached, some had muttonchop side-
whiskers, and all were equipped with long
frock-coats and top-hats. With all his
informality thrown in, I must confess that
I preferred the 1957 specimen, but he
wouldn’t have suited the old-time banker
who, when one of his clerks turned up
for work wearing a felt hat, inquired
“ That's what he ordered , sir, and home-delivery."
whether the lad was on his way to a picnic,
and ordered him to return home and come
back to the office with a more seemly
boxer or straw-decker, though anything
more picnic-like than the straw-decker
would be hard to imagine.
❖ ❖
“Eureka”: On sale in a Sydney store is
a neat key-ring with the coat-of-arms
of a city called “Sidney.”
♦> *> »>
“Glen Park”: News that amateur radio
enthusiasts (hams) were holding their
annual contest, to honor their fallen
comrades of World War 11, brought to
mind a story of a police-constable of
Wellington (N.Z.), a keen “ham,” who,
working his transmitter in a cell at the
police-station, was accidentally locked-in.
He sent an SOS to another amateur in
Brisbane (1500 miles away). This man
called a third amateur in Wellington,
who at once phoned —the police. And the
constable who had accidentally slammed
the door walked about fifty yards along
the corridor to enlarge the “ham.”
♦2* »!♦ <2*
“C.A.A.”: The municipal elections in
Victoria increased the number of women
sitting on city and town councils.
Queerest result, and the first time in the
Cabbage State, came from Hamilton, in
the Western District, where a woman beat
four men to join her husband on the
council. As he had been mayor, she had
a taste of municipal occasions as
mayoress. In Prahran, husband and wife
opposed one another, with husband just
scraping home.
*> ♦>
“Davey”: Head back, mouth agape,
I trembled with honest cowardice as the
dentist poised to stab home the loaded
hypodermic needle; then I heard a most
unprofessional exclamation. The dentist
confessed: “I always think my patients
are a weak lot when. they yelp at the
injection. Well, I just lanced my thumb! ”
ljg+
“Kerba”: A book that can make the
reader laugh aloud in a crowded train
must be genuinely funny, and three
times, oblivious to everything around her,
the lady emitted spontaneous chuckles.
But in between each overflow of mirth
she repeatedly yawned. Can’t see how
anyone could laugh over a book that
bored her ; nor yawn over a book that
amused. Only explanation I can think of
is that she was reading a bedroom-
comedy.
♦> *x* +;♦
“Sevenelms”: Years ago at Sandakan
the skipper of a sonth-bound Japan-
Australia liner was dining with me and
admiring my Siamese cats. His wife, he
said, wanted one badly, but quarantine
was complex and a heartache. Not
letting on, I told my cook to deliver an
unrelated male and female to the captain’s
Chinese boy at sailing-time late that
night, and so two azure-eyed kittens
gambolled about the commander’s suite


on the homeward voyage. Berthed at
Woolloomooloo, the captain spent a busy
hour tidying-up his ship’s business, then
told Ah Sing to look out no one stole
the kittens and wended his way heavy-
hearted to the Customs-house to discuss
cats with his friend the Deputy Collector,
who proved to be in Melbourne. So
with his troubles unresolved he glumly
caught the tram home to Woollahra —
to receive a rapturous welcome from his
wife and the two Siamese kittens. Ah Sing
had acted on his own initiative and
delivered them in the captain’s soiled-
linen bag.
♦♦♦
“Sunray”: Time 10.30 p.m. Place a
blind hillcrest at .Turramurra (N.S.W.).
As the Humber swept over the top there
was a screech of brakes, a wild swerve,
“ Okay—let her be a model, then, but she's got to keep away
from those Indian princes.”
and shock stop as the driver tried to avoid
a body in the middle of the left-hand lane.
No, two bodies ; two youths, wrestling in
the middle of the traffic-lane. One (the
one on top) waved his hand and both
laughed. The driver doesn’t know if it’s a
new kind of “chicken” or whether they
couldn’t wait to fight it out, but he does
know what it did to his nerves.
❖ *2* ♦♦♦
“Wallboard”: Can’t see much merit in
“R. Jay’s” claim (B. 7/8/’57) that “back-
lag” is a more appropriate term than
“backlog.” “Back” is redundant when
coupled with “lag,” which on its own
connotes a falling behind. A log can be
a .book, a table (used to assess work-time
in tailoring), or a list (as in a “log of
claims”), and in this sense combines per-
fectly well with “back” to make a useful
descriptive term. “Backlag” doesn’t even
rate a mention in my Webster, while
“backlog” is described as “reserve
resources, as of a business house,
especially an accumulation of unfilled
orders.”
*2* *2*
“Col. Puce”: Girls! Are you plain,
not to say repulsive? Then get yourself
murdered and be headlined “Beautiful
Girl Slain.” If you’re lucky you might
even achieve such an accolade as a recent
London lunacy: “Police Not Yet
Identified Skeleton of Beautiful Woman.”
»:♦ ❖ ❖
“Doric”: Once it was imperative for
every little girl, musical or otherwise, to
have piano-lessons, and visitors had to
endure little Jane’s interpretation of
Chopin’s “Butterfly Study” (which
sounded more like the flight of a
pterodactyl) or Mendelssohn’s “Spring
Song” (resembling a dirty night at sea).
Elocution-lessons, dire in effects, made
“Not Understood,” “Lasca” or “Gunga
Din” torture to the listener. Now the
youngsters are emulating Margot
Fonteyn, and however small the room
“The Dying Swan” (reminiscent of an
elephant stampeding through the jungle)
has to be witnessed. By the way, what
happened to the eurythmic classes so
popular about 30 years ago? Can it be
that all these would-be nymphs eventually
met their fauns and that the young
Pavlovas of today are their grand-
children?
*2* *2* *z*
“Bo”: Have you noticed, over the last
few years, that your memory has got
better —and through no conscious effort
of your own, either? It started with the
increase in the number of friends who
acquired cars, and got an added impetus
when the old two-letter Dumber-plates
were superseded by the three-letter kind.
It was dead-easy, in the days when only
about one in ten of the population owned
cars, to remember the numbers of those
owned by your friends ; now it’s one-in-
three —and, after a while, walking or
driving, you involuntarily note the
numbers of passing cars. A dozen pale-
green Holdens will pass through your
suburb’s main street in a quarter of an
hour ; but if AML9O9 heaves in sight you
know right away it’s George’s; that
Vanguard AFZBSO is Bill’s, and the little
Cadet ASM432 is Dulcie’s, and so on.
Whereas a few years back I would have
been hard put to it to remember my own
car-number if asked suddenly, I can now
reel off dozens; in fact I can still
remember George’s that he traded-in for
his new Holden a couple of years ago—
it was FMIBS. Yes, as the cheapest and
most efficient memory-training course it’s
on its own.
ENJOYMENT-EMPLOYMENT
“Pickled pelt classer. Permanent position for
right man.” — “S. M. Herald” positions-vacanl
ad.
If you think .the job you hold
Is too stodgily defined,
Such as clerk or salesman, driver or
technician,
Then why not forthwith be bold?
Toss it in for one you’ve pined
For, some more romantically-named
position.
It’s unlikely that your skull
Will be subject to more strain
Simply because you toil as “pressure-
grouter” ;
Life for you will be less dull;
In your chosen new domain
You’ll feel that you’re no longer on
the outer.
You’ve a choice, in industry.
What a “scabbier” does at work
We wouldn’t have a clue; then
there’s the “boodler”
Sometimes advertised for; he
Might be on a real good lurk ;
A “layer-up” could be a super-
doodler.
Jobs like “tailer-out” they’ve got;
A “stuffcutter,” too, there is ;
“Sponger,” “tilter - and - topper,”
“spacer-and-squarer” —
One of these could be the shot.
Yet there IS one better, viz-'
“Pickled pelt classer” — that’s a real
ensnarer!
He would be surrounded by
Heaps of animals’ overcoats
About whose quality he’d be as
hazy
As the fact that they were “high.”
And his job’s one that denotes
That as the day wore on he’d get
quite lazy.
Even though the hair was coarse
That he handled, unaware
He’d very likely be, his hands were
pickled.
Yet one question here must force
Its attention. This I air:
Will the company pay to get the
classer pickled?
n.s.w.
S. W. K.


RATA
“Curse these birds,” said Rata, “and curse their cousins,
Sandfly, stonefly, dragonfly and gnat,
For there’s no doubt that swarming in their thousands
It’s they who’ve knocked my dearest work down flat,
Or rather stood it up—in these confusions
Of whirring wings and feathers, I don’t know what—
But there, look there, with humming and with trilling,
Some tugging at the crown, some carting chips,
No bird not busy, no beetle that’s unwilling,
The veriest midge with sawdust on his lips,
The hairy kiwi pushing, pigeons pulling,
They launch my tree in air as on the slips,
As from the slips where it should now be sailing!
1 thought to make myself a small canoe
Or large as it might be, good luck prevailing;
It was a simple thing that I could do,
No harm to anyone, no fear of failing,
And take the seas with it where waves are blue,
For we have crouched in forests far too long.
Oh, I’d have seats in it for forty rowers,
Who’d sail with me, my kinsmen tall and strong,
And cut its lines as graceful as the kowhai’s
And carve a god on it with lolling tongue
To lick the waves and scare their salty powers—
So came each day, oh, glad at daybreak came
Through fern and vine and singing enemies
(I thought were happy birds), and by the stream
Chopped down that mightiest tree among the trees
And worked on it; and monstrous, like a dream,
Saw it next morning towering in the breeze
Rebuilt by birds and insects! There it stands,
The tree, the tree, the tree that I cut down,
My dear canoe, the work of my own hands,
That I had shaped and hollowed, all undone,
Growing untouched beside the pebbly sands.
Must I, for birds, do all my work again?”
And bursting from the forest where he’d hidden,
He caught the nearest fantail by the tail.
•—“Master, we do but do as we are bidden;
Canoes are good, and good it is to sail
On far blue seas, but we are Tane’s children
And Tane says no tree of his must fail.
You chop it down: the god says, ‘Put together!’ ”
•—“The sea has also gods, all crisp with foam,
They call me out to meet the wild blue weather.”
—“Then say,” the fantail said, “you cannot come.”
Rata pulled out that little bird’s tail-feather
And scratched his head with it, and so went home.
There is a sweet forgivingness in things,
Say what you will, that does at last relent
When it has stunned us with its bufferings,
For lo next morning when poor Rata went
Once more to strive with all those beaks and wings
That for so long had mocked his best intent,
There his canoe lay shining in the thicket!
Now whether Tane in his vast green mind
Thought prudent to placate his friend the seagod
Whose waves could sweep the island where he reigned,
Or maybe just got tired of being wicked
Or even thought one moment to be kind,
Having so many trees that he could spare
(There is no questioning a wood-god’s morals),
Certain it is the craft lay shining there
And whirling round his head with chirps and carols
And calls and whistles bright as morning air,
The birds begged Rata to forget their quarrels,
For they had toiled to make it all night long;
And there were seats in it for forty rowers
To sail with him, his kinsmen tall and strong,
And sweetly slept its lines among the flowers,
And they had carved a god with crimson tongue
To ride its prow and scare the salty powers —
It shone there like an answer to his prayer.
“Then bless the birds and all their small relations,”
Cried Rata plucking beetles from his hair;
And took the stream and sailed for the bright oceans
And waved goodbye to all his pain and care,
Thanking the gods, although with reservations.
Douglas Stewart.


POLITICAL POINTS
Stratosphere balloons and interconti-
nental missiles were kept well grounded
last week in case they tangled with the
dozens of political kites being sent up
from assorted quarters in Canberra, where
the Libs., the A.L.P. and the D.L.P. were
all holding meetings and making
announcements. Now the skies have
cleared, and conflict is confined to ground-
and underground-fighting in Parliament
House.
t • •
Frank Forde had been thought unlucky
to lose his Flinders seat by seven votes,
but in the final wash-up the margin was
narrower still —disputed votes ultimately
accepted by the returning-officer cut the
leeway down to one. Final count:
Lonergan (C.P.), 1441 ; Forde (A.L.P.),
1440; Kattner (Q.L.P.), 1079; Corney
find. Lab.), 225.
Queensland has had one closer
finish —in 1904 there was a tie
for the Rosewood seat and twice a
seat has been won by two votes (Port
Curtis and Maryborough, both at the
1912 election). More recently there was
a tie in Westralia, where at Pilbara in
1947 the primary count left the Labor
sitting member one vote ahead, with
Service votes still to come. There were
two of these ; one was informal and the
other went to the Opposition candidate,
making the result a dead-heat. The
returning-officer thereupon gave his
casting-vote to the sitting member. On
appeal this election was upset. The
Labor man won the subsequent by-
election by a somewhat more substantial
margin.
Another close finish was that recorded
in Oakleigh (Vic.) in 1950. V. J. Doube
(Lab.) was 79 votes behind at the close
of the primary count. A recount (which
must have disclosed a record number of
mistakes) put him five in front, and a
further recount gave him the seat by
three votes.
• •
There are now three Labor parties in
the Senate —the Doc.’s official A.L.P.
(trying to present a solid front, but with
cracks showing here and there); the two-
man D.L.P. (Senators Cole and
McManus) and the one-man Q.L.P.
(Senator Byrne).
• •
During the Address-in-Reply debate in
the N. S. Wales Assembly, Deputy-
Opposition-leader Askin asked for an
inquiry into the licensing of drive-in
theatres. He said fortunes had been made
from trafficking in licences and he asked
that the issuing of licences should be taken
away from the Theatres and Films Com-
mission and placed in the hands of a
board of three magistrates. His request
isn’t likely to get far, but there’s no harm
in askin’.
What is more to the point than arguing
over who should issue the licences is why
there should be any need for licences at
all. Victoria, which pioneered drive-ins
in Australia, doesn’t find licences
necessary.
• •
In a Sydney court a man who rented
a house at £2 Is. a week and sublet it at
£8 Bs. a week was fined £3O with £l9 11s.
costs for a breach of the Landlord and
Tenant Act. For every offender who is
caught at this rapacious game there are
scores who get away with it. Nowadays
the rackrenter seldom owns the property.
More often he accepts the protection of
the tenancy laws to keep his own rent
down and abuses them by subletting at
high rents to unfortunate people desperate
for a home. Cahill couldn’t care less.
• •
Asked to circulate the full text of the
High Court judgment on uniform-taxa-
tion the Prime Minister said he would see
that any member who wanted a copy
received one.
Mr. Ward: I would like an autographed
copy.
Mr. Menzies: I will give you that with
pleasure. I would add an instruction to
the bank, of course, that it was not
negotiable.
• •
A mighty lot of Liberal supporters
exercised their right of choice and voted
for the Independent Lib. candidates in
Vaucluse instead of the endorsed man
Cox. But in the split-up of preferences
enough of them swung back into line to
give him thie seat by 539 votes. But H. C.
Foster, the runner-up, wasn’t being quite
fair when he claimed that he had been
beaten “because Liberal-party members
had not voted for him, solely because he
was not the endorsed candidate.” After
all, if he had won he would have owed
his victory largely to Labor supporters
who, in the absence of a Labor candidate,
did vote for him solely because he was
not the endorsed Liberal candidate.
• •
The wharfies and miners must be highly
flattered to find the N. S. Wales teachers
following their example by marching to
Parliament House.
• •
“A.U.A.”: Another Victorian who sat
in three Houses of Parliament (B.
7/8/’57) was Sir Robert Best. He was
first a member of the Victorian Parlia-
ment, representing Fitzroy 1889-1901.
When Federation came he was elected to
the Senate (1901-10) and finally served
as M.H.R. for Kooyong, 1910-22.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: If Professor Bland and
his colleagues on the Federal Parlia-
mentary Public Accounts Committee
have done nothing more than make
departmental heads more careful ia
submitting their estimates of expenditure,
they will have performed a most valu-
able service to Australian taxpayers.
Bland has claimed modestly that constant
pressure has made departments formu-
late their estimates “more carefully and
intelligently,” but in fact the committee
has done much more in bringing to light
extravagance and duplication. The next
move should be for the Government to
take some notice of the committee’s
reports.
• •
The Australian Automobile Associa-
tion has been trying to find out why
replies it receives from Commonwealth
departments are sometimes either
undated or bear a date which seems to
indicate that the department has been
tardy in answering. It has now dis-
covered that regulations forbid a typist
to date a letter. That must be done by
the mailing section. Other people besides
the A.A.A. will no doubt be gratified at
this assurance that it isn’t that the depart-
ments are slow in answering correspon-
dence ; it’s just that they take a long
time to post their letters.
• •
South African cricket-captain Clive
van Ryneveld is now an M.P. Standing as
a United Party candidate he won an East
London seat at a by-election for the Cape
Province Parliament. Sam Loxton,
M.L.A. for Prahran in the Victorian
Assembly, is the only other Test-cricketer
at present in Parliament.
• •
“Stromlo”: Promises made under
duress are not legally enforceable. It can
well be asked whether the threat of non-
endorsement at the next selection-ballot
is not duress in the case of Labor members
who mostly are professional politicians,
relying for their living on their Parlia-
mentary pay. Is the “support” which is
“pledged” to Dr. Evatt by Labor men
who know the hopelessness of the party’s
position while it is burdened by the
“Doc.” of any real value to the party?
• •
FitzSimons, M.L.C., has asked N.S.W.
Chief Secretary Kelly to investigate the
operation of poker-machines with a view
to giving club-members “a better run for
their money.” He thinks Parliament
should fix a minimum percentage of pay-
outs on turnover. This was suggested
when the one-armed bandits were
legalised, but the N. S. Wales was then
more concerned about seeing how much
its Treasury could make out of the things.
• •
The D.L.P. has adopted the idea of
interest-free marriage-loans—£soo to
pair of newlyweds, £lOO to be remitted on
the birth of each child. If they’re careful
they’ll have Leslie Haylen accusing them
of pinching his plan—that is to say, the
plan he pinched from Hitler.


It must be quite a pleasant change for
a Government to win a road-tramport
case on Section 92, and all mainland
State Governments will be* feeling happy
at the High Court decision upholding the
Victorian Commercial Goods Vehicles
Act, which was framed after High Court
and Privy Council decisions had upset
previous legislation taxing inter-State
hauliers.
The Bolte legislation doesn’t discrimin-
ate between inter-State and intra-State
vehicles. It taxes on a ton-mile basis
. , , , . ~ c
every truck with a laden weight of more
than four tons, and it provides that the
revenue so raised will be used exclusively
for the maintenance of roads.
™ . . , , ~ ,
These provisions the court upheld by a
four-three majority, though it rejected by
six to one a clause providing for a
registration-fee on inter-State hauliers.
m m
.
In the long-drawn-out fight between
State Governments and road-hauliers
most of the public sympathy has been
"TWINKLE. TWINKLE, LITTLE MISSILE...."
with the hauliers, because the prime
purpose of the Governments has seemed
to be to put the hauliers out of business
in order to bolster-up railway finances.
But so long as road-tax income is devoted
to the upkeep of the roads most people
will agree that it is a fair tax.
• •
It seems likely that the other States will
now copy the Victorian legislation -and
that inter-State road-transports will have
to contribute to the upkeep of the roads
they have been doing so much to knock
to pieces. But where, as in N. S. Wales,
existing road-tax on intra-State vehicles
is credited to railway accounts, this
money will in future have to be spent
on the roads. Otherwise inter-State
hauliers will be entitled to plead
discrimination,
• *
vA 1 !™ cham ,. hard ',° p,ease ’
d ,K hu ?~ tha L WaS „ 3
io S n y “ P H ha £ “f burst Mfcm.llan
ignored rum—that was a rather con-
spicuous silence ...
• •
T , , , .
Labor had a win in Saturday s by-
election for Wallaroo in the South Aus-
tralian Assembly when L. C. Hughes
defeated Liberal candidate L. Dowling,
This means that the Playford Govern-
ment no longer has an absolute
majority—the condition of the House
is: L.C.L., 20; Labor, 16; Independ-
ents, 3. If the Independents line-up with
Labor on any division the Government
will now have to rely on the Speaker’s
casting vote to save it.
It is not likely that Playford will lose
much sleep over the position. He has
had to rely on Independents before now.
On most bread-and-butter issues the
present three vote more often with the
Government than with Labor.
There is not much significance in the
loss of this by-election. Wallaroo has
almost always been a Labor seat, and
L. R. Heath, whose death in a road
accident caused the vacancy, won it for
the Libs, last year on his personal
popularity —and then by only 248 votes.
So A.N.A. passes over to Ansett. Price:
£3,300,000, fly-in, fly-out. Reg Ansett,
managing-director of Ansett Transport
Industries, says the pre§ent plan is to
carry-on the A.N.A. set-up exactly as it
stands. He thinks the great bulk of the
staff of Ansett Airways and A.N.A. will
be, required to cope with the planned
extension of the two companies. There’s
to be no hurry about integration, which
will be “very gradual.”
Included in the takeover are all A.N.A.’s
freeholds and buildings and its fleet of
six DC6s, eight DC4s, twenty'DC3s, three
Bristol freighters and two helicopters.
Ansett’s fleet consists of one Convair
Metropolitan, two Convair 3405, four
DC4s, and two flying-boats. Seven more
Convair Metropolitans are on order (the
first to arrive next week); also three
Lockheed Electra turbo-prop, airliners.
The combined fleet will be easily the
largest in Australia.
• •
There may be changes in the electoral
system for the Senate before next year’s
election. Minister for the Interior Fair-
ball told F. Daly, Labor member for
Grayndler, that the public had been asked
to give its views on electoral change.
Many useful suggestions had been
received and the department was now
examining them.
• •
Vic. Transport Minister Warner won’t
look at a request by the tram-employees
for a public inquiry into the Tramways
Board’s operations; chairman Risson
won’t have a bar of a working-roster the
employees want to work-out for them-
selves ; the employees won’t have a bar
of the board’s roster and have been
staging stop-work meetings and regula-
tion-strikes in protest. A substantial
section of the public and the Melbourne
dailies won’t have a bar of any of them
and are demanding buses—now.
• •
Although the A.L.P. won two seats
from the D.L.P. in Melbourne City
Council elections and secured a majority
in Richmond, the D.L.P. retained some
seats with enhanced majorities. Caucus
and the State executive can be as
unanimous as they like about Dr. Evatt,
but Labor voters aren’t!
• •
All the talk about seeking overseas
markets for Newcastle coal was apparently
so much eyewash; the port facilities at
Newcastle couldn’t cope with the orders if
they were obtained. Labor Minister Holt,
answering a question in the Reps., said
the Joint Coal Board had had to discour-
age inquiries from countries seeking coal
because the loading facilities at New-
castle were fully extended in handling
coal for the local market. Overseas trade
will have to be forgotten until Newcastle
gets the equipment to handle it. And that
goes for the mythical 10 million tons an
American leg-puller was reputed to be
eager to take.


There's ts TAA
flight to suit YOU!
Whenever you travel, wherever you travel, there’s always a
TAA VISCOUNT flight to suit you. For your convenience,
TAA operates daily round-the-clock Viscount flights, between
all states. From as far north as Cairns, to Hobart in the south, _
right across the nation to Perth in the west, you can fly TAA Viscount.
to
More people fly TAA-
Reservations: TAA Booking Offices in all States
the friendly way
or any authorised Travel Agent.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Eben Cowrie Waterhouse, formerly
Professor of German at Sydney University
and now emeritus professor, is one of
those versatile Australians who are known
only in compartments of life in their own
country but are famous abroad. Unques-
tionably Australian —a descendant of
Captain Waterhouse, R.N., who brought
the first Merino sheep from the Cape of
Good Hope in 1797 in H.M.S. Reliance—
he is, as a linguist, equally at home in
French and in German: he was the
author of two or three books on the
teaching of French before he came to
world-stature as an authority on Goethe.
The Goethe Institute of Munich has
awarded him, in his 76th year, the Goethe
Gold Medal for his promotion of the
study of German in N. S. Wales,
in the same year in which the great
volume on the camellia issued by
Urquharts in England acknowledged his
services to the culture and literature of
that lovely plant, which has a growing
number of addicts in Australia, including
Sir John Northcott, till recently Governor
of N.S.W.; Professor Waterhouse is the
author of two famous and beautiful works
on the flower. Hardy Wilson con-
sidered him one of the world’s outstand-
ing thinkers in the realm of domestic
architecture and landscape - gardening,
which are his hobbies. As well as which
versatile roles he’s a stalwart of the more
generalised artistic world as a trustee of
the Sydney National Gallery.
• •
Seen in Fremantle on his fourth visit
to Australia, Sergio Moder, a 42-year-old
Chilean artist with a Vandyck beard, who
was Chilean Olympic at the
Melbourne Games. He stayed in Mel-
bourne four months, got as far as Europe
on the way home, then decided to have
a farewell look at Australia before return-
ing to Chile. A sculptor and painter, he’s
official art-restorer at the Historical
Museum, Santiago.
Tony Rafty is here his own
executioner. For the past ten days his
caricatures of outstanding Australian
personalities have been greeting visitors
to David Jones’ Market Street store with
broad smiles. If the itch to draw hadn’t
interfered with his swing Rafty might
have been a world-class golfer. As it was,
he got his handicap down to two. Says
he’s slipping now ; plays off nine. Tony’s
first venture into art was in The Bulletin
when he was a caddie at Royal Sydney.
In World War II he was in Borneo with
Military History, saw the fall of Singa-
pore and had five months in Indonesia.
Nowadays he’s a newspaperman with a
flair for getting vitality into his carica-
tures and portraits.
• •
Scholarly Frank Woods, at present
Bishop of Middleton in England, is to be
Melbourne’s new Archbishop, succeeding
Archbishop Booth. He will be the fifth
Archbishop of Melbourne, all of ’em
Englishmen. He’s 50, is a chaplain to the
Queen, and has four children ; two sons,
two daughters. Bishop Woods looked-
over Melbourne a few weeks ago on his
way from Singapore to New Zealand ; he
has a brother in both those places—both
of them archdeacons. The new Arch-
bishop should be known to some of our
ex-Servicemen ; he was a chaplain to the
British Forces in the last war.
• •
One of the few remaining links with the
camel-team era was broken with the
death in Adelaide at 84 of Shargoul
Khan, who came to Australia from the
Lahore district of India (now Pakistan)
round about 1890 and worked as a
cameleer on the Westralian goldfields,
around Alice Springs and in Western
Queensland until he called it a day about
15 years ago. Adelaide “Advertiser” said
his death meant that only one of the old
camel-drivers, 82-year-old Jumal Khan,
survived, but R. Priestley, an English-born
Moslem, replied that there were probably
about 30,. including another Adelaide
identity, herbalist Mohammed Allum.
Others are at Oodnadatta, Port Augusta
and Marree in South Australia ;-at Alice
Springs, Perth, Broken Hill, Lismore
(N.S.W.), Brisbane (five or six), Mareeba
(Q.) and on stations in the Queensland
Channel country. The term Afghan was
loosely applied to all camel-drivers, but
most of them came from north-west
India and Baluchistan. The Mohammedan
mosque in Little Gilbert Street, Adelaide,
is a reminder of the days when there were
some thousands of Moslems in these
parts.
• •
“El V.’s” note:
Australia has figured largely in the prelimin-
aries for Malayan independence. The Australian
Battalion in Malaya has contributed greatly to
the final clean-up of the Communist guerrillas;
former Australian Governor-General Sir William
McKell sat on the commission which framed
the Constitution of the new Federation; the
main contribution to the drafting of the land-
laws was made by W. L. Payne, president for
many years of the Queensland Land Court;
Commonwealth Bank officers are taking the


leading part in setting up the central banking
system. And now the first British High Com-
missioner, Geofroy Tory, C.M.G., goes to the
job from Canberra, where he has been U.K.
Deputy High Commissioner. He came to Aus-
tralia in 1954, and, at 45, is young by service
standards for such a position. A quiet, friendly
man whose ability and breadth of outlook is not
apparent on first acquaintance, a painter of the
quality of Churchill, he was private secretary
to the permanent head of the Dominions Office
at 26 and, after several years of war-service,
became Principal Secretary to the Secretary of
State at the end of the war. Later he had
versatile experience in high positions in Canada
and Ireland before coming to Australia from
Pakistan, where he had been Deputy High Com-
missioner. It looks as if the U.K. has
established a policy of using Canberra as train-
ing-ground for, top positions. Tory’s successor,
Neil Pritchard, has come here from the Deputy
High Commissionership in Canada and is
regarded as a man marked out for a great
future.
• •
Sir Frank Selleck, retiring Lord Mayor
of Melbourne, replying to an invitation
to himself and his wife to visit Leningrad,
has told the executive committee of the
Leningrad City Soviet of Deputies of
Working People that they are both very
interested, but cannot leave Melbourne
before next May, or possibly 1959.
Returning Olympic athletes seem to have
convinced their countrymen all over the
world that Australia, especially Mel-
bourne, is a reality.
•
Harold Fraser, of the N.S.W. Soil
Conservation Service, knocked off work
to carry bricks last week: he has retired
from the service, but, in addition to look-
ing after his grazing interests at Wagga
and in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area,
he will be setting up as an agricultural
consultant, pioneering a specialised kind
of advisory service on land-use which will
be a logical development (and extension)
of the work he has been doing for years.
From Hurlstone Agricultural High
School, Fraser went on to Wagga Experi-
SOIL SPECIALIST
ment Farm, then worked as a jackeroo
for a couple of years before being
awarded a Walter and Eliza Hall special
scholarship to Hawkesbury Agricultural
College, from which he emerged with
first-class honors, dux, and with a gold-
medal and a swag of other prizes. Then
a year on George Gow’s property,
Hughenden, in the Barellan district, dur-
ing which time he ran agricultural pages
in local papers and converted his employer
and other graziers to growing grazing
lucerne on old wheatlands.
In 1934 he joined the Department of
Agriculture, as an experimentalist, was at
the Wollongbar Experiment Farm, Lis-
more, and the Grafton Experiment Farm,
and later went to Temora, where he did
important work revising and welding new
techniques to the methods of field-
experiments: his system is still used. He
was at Wagga Experiment Farm for a
time, then put in a couple of years as
Agricultural Instructor on the Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Area and in the south-
west Riverina, with headquarters at
Griffith—his pioneer work in pasture-
improvement will be long remembered in
those parts. In 1939 he was bagged by
the new Conservation Service as a
foundation technical-officer, and next
year established the Cowra Research
Station.
Apart from War II years in the
R.A.A.F., he had been with Soil Conser-
vation from 1939 till last week, and there
are landowners throughout N. S. Wales
who sing his praises. A modest chap,
Fraser is quick to point out that he has
been only one of a team.
• •
Alec Chisholm writes: —-
. Arthur Clinton Morgan, who died in Sydney
at 75 recently, had the unusual distinction of
being the third-generation member of his family
to serve in an Australian Parliament. His
grandfather, James, was an early rep. of
Warwick in the Queensland Assembly, and his
father, Arthur, later held the'same seat, going
on to become successively Premier, President
of the Legislative Council, and Lieut.-Governor,
topped off with a knighthood. Arthur C. (the
Clinton was his mother’s surname) brought
about the Parliamentary hat-trick by winning
the House of Reps seat of Darling Downs in
1929, though he held it for only one Parliament.
He was, in fact, less “at home” in the legislature
than in a newspaper-office.
Starting with his family’s paper, the Warwick
“Argus,” he served on various publications in
Queensland and New South Wales, among
them (after his return from World War 1) the
Brisbane “Daily Mail,” on which he was a
punching leader-writer. In those days, when
Morgan emerged from his den with an especially
amiable grin and a lift of his broad shoulders,
we reporters always knew that he had just
unloosed a heavy broadside at the Labor
Government of the period. But, of course, his
writings weren’t restricted to politics; he was
assured and competent on any topical subject,
and particularly anything touching directly on
the welfare of his home State.
In his later years, much marred by ill-health,
Morgan lived in Sydney; but most of his
thoughts were in Queensland and he liked noth-
ing better than to roam in fancy about the open
spaces of the Darling Downs or the forests of
the Main Range.
His wife, two sons, and two daughters remain;
their sense of loss is shared by many admirers
of a sound, nationally-minded Australian. F. J.
Morgan, retired banker and vice-president of
the Royal Agricultural Association of Queens-
land (who was pictured in The Bulletin of
July 31), is a younger brother of Arthur.
• •
Geoffrey Souter Cox ' (herewith), 42-
year-old new member for Vaucluse in
the N. S. Wales Assembly, is an Eastern
Suburbs Sydneysider who has lived in
the electorate just on 13 years. After
Sydney Grammar, he was with the Coast
Artillery at South Head as a militiaman
before War IT, sailed with the 2/2nd Bn.
(Sixth Divvy), was wounded at Bardia,
but came out of hospital in time to go to
NEW M.L.A.
Crete as O.C. Troops, lonia. More
service with the 2/Ist and 2/7th, and
C. of the 2/4th at the finish, he won
D. and M.C. Later he joined the
C.M.F., commanded a brigade, was
honorary A.D.C. to George VI and the
present Queen, and in 1951 was one of
the C.M.F. members of the Australian
military mission to Malaya. With his
brother he runs a 70-year-old real-estate
business (of late years a travel-agency
has been added), and politically he has
definite views on the housing-problem,
on which he should be worth listening to
when he finds his feet in the Assembly.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 56, William John Fleming, super-
vising technician, P.M.G.'s Department. After
service with the 28th Bn., A.1.F., he qualified
in radio-work and was for many years with the
A.B.C. on the technical side in Perth.
In Sydney, at 91, Benjamin Reuben Denning,
veteran schoolteacher. He began teaching at
the age of 13 and at the time of his retirement
was headmaster of Concord Public School. A
son is Director of Technical Education in
N.S.W.
At Maitland (N.S.W ), John Patrick Enright,
for years a judge of horses at Sydney Royal
Show and Brisbane Exhibition. He made many
shipments of polo ponies to India and the
Philippines, and shipped mounts to the
Malayan Mounted Police and trotting horses
to China, as well as stud Herefords to the
Philippines. .
In Adelaide, at 69, L. C. Sando, D. 5.0., who
was C.O. of the 4th Light Horse in World
War I. He served at the Landing and in France.
In Melbourne, E. M. Christie, active member
of the Royal Historical Society of Victoria and
editor for many years of the “Historical
Magazine.”
At Lymington (Eng.), at 76, Rev. George
Green, a former chaplain of Trinity College,
Melbourne. Served as chaplain of the Ist Light
Horse in World War I.


ABORIGIANLITIES
/'YNE of the four milkmen in the
mining-town • was, I knew, milking
“the cow with the iron tail,” and, as Health
Inspector, it was my job to catch him.
But every time I took a sample his milk
had a full quota of butter-fat.
Then I woke up; his son worked for
the chemist where I bought my Boz.
bottles, and every time an order came
through for them his sire got the tip-
off. So I bought my bottles elsewhere,
and eventually Poppa fell into the net.
Milk-oh was a one-armed veteran of
World War I, and who should be on the
Bench but his old Major. I rightly
interpreted his look at the accused as
.“They’ll prove this old soldier guilty over
my dead body! ”
So the Major tore into me! Analyst's
certificates? Yes, sir. How did I send
the samples by rail to the analyst? Packed
’em in salt and ice in a kerosene-tin, sir,
and had the plumber solder down the lid.
And who took them from the city
terminus to the analyst? Why, a carrier
did that, sir. Aha! (triumphantly) ; and
how could 1 prove that the carrier didn't
tamper with them?
But the tin, sir, soldered down ; the
samples sealed, sir; the analyst's certi-
ficate that they were sound on arrival.
No matter. Not guilty! Next case.
Appeal? Aw, what the heck! It was
115 in the shade, so the solicitors, the
milk-oh and I made for the nearest pub.
Wilko.
* * * *
“Diddillibah”: Rounding a bend on
the road to Broken Head (northern
N.S.W.) our host stopped the car, jumped
out, and went forward to where a 10ft.
carpet-snake was sunning himself. Sternly
he ordered him to nick off, but Joe
turned a deaf ear (which, after all, is the
only kind he has). Next move in the
game was our host nonchalantly giving
Joe’s tail a friendly tug, whereupon Joe
began to mote, but none too speedily at
that. Any other sort would have had the
car skidded over it pronto.
“You can let the sheep in when I'm finished."
A BUS-DRIVER at The Entrance
(N.S.W.), seeing some stranded Boy
Scouts, did his good deed for the day by
giving them a lift. With springs prac-
tically flat under the load of kids and
gear he sneaked his bus along a
tnurderous track through almost virgin
bush, dodging boulders and skirting the
trees. He was returning from the remote
camp, his heart glowing at the fervent
thanks of the kids, when, to a grinding,
rending sound, the vehicle shuddered,
bucked, and stopped. He found that a
tree-branch encroaching on the track had
torn open the roof. Marvellous what
difference the weight of a mob of kids
can make to the height of a bus.—
“Sackville.”
'* * * *
“Spin": A gold-treatment plant is
being established at North Fremantle to
handle dirt brought down nearly 400
miles from Kalgoorlie—not rich ore, but
dirt from which the goldfields’ batteries
have already extracted all the ore they
can. To get the rest the dirt has to be
roasted, and it is—but not primarily for
the gold-content. That dirt from the
Kalgoorlie mines is pyrites concentrates
containing about 40 per cent, sulphur,
which is extracted and used to produce
sulphuric-acid for fertiliser-manufacture ;
but since, after roasting, the gold can
also be won, it’s worth erecting the plant
to do that job—thus lowering the cost
of producing the sulphuric-acid and also
helping the goldmines, which, if they
can sell the dirt they’d otherwise be
throwing away, will be able to work
lower-grade ores at a profit.
•e * * *
“W.P.T.”: Fleard a country bloke the
other day say he’d been walking “from
kookaburra to mopoke"—an expression
I hadn’t heard in years. It has its point.
Kooka greets the dawn only after the
mopoke has said his final greeting to the
night and settled down for the day. The
mopoke doesn't stir until the bloke with
the brushed-back feather-do has tucked-
up for his night’s snooze.
* * * *
“J.K.”: August 25 marked the cen-
tenary of an almost forgotten event; the
marriage of Bully Hayes—“the scourge
of the Pacific” —to Amelia Littlejohn,
widow, at St. Mark’s, Penwortham, 80
miles north of Adelaide. The marriage-
register, still preserved in the church,
records that Bully was a bachelor —
which is questionable. The bride, accord-
ing to one of his biographers, was “a
widow of loose morals.” Why
Bully should go 80 miles from
Adelaide to marry remains a
mystery. Local legend has it
that in addition to the usual
fee he gave the minister a roll of
valuable cloth, no doubt part
of the loot from one of his raids.
Penwortham was founded by
the explorer James Ainsworth Horrocks,
who, dying from a gun-accident on ail
exploring trip, was buried in the church-
grounds in 1846. A memorial cairn
THE CRATER HILLS
Between the dark volcanic hills
Where once the molten lava flowed,
The light of sunset floods and spills.
Rolls the rich pasture; runs the road;
Feed the fat cattle; sing the larks,
Sinking in silence to the grass
Or beating up, with song begun,
Sing up the moon, sing down the sun —
From song to song we seemed to pass,
Song linked with song, and never done !
The crater hills, to left and right,
Were washed about with seas of gold:
A silver light behind us rolled
And, looking back, we saw the moon
And heard the larks, and thought they
might
In moonlight, as in sunlight, swim
About the crater’s crumbling rim
And rise, and fall, and sing all night.
VICTORIA.
C. MAWDESLEY.


All ( £AV (S
IUAT Ufß OM t+hs PiANtT
IS P£AV AL££AVy % "


erected on the road in front of the church
records that S. T. Gill, afterwards to
become “the artist of the Victorian Gold-
fields,” was one of the explorer’s party.
* * * *
“J.M.”: The city-visitor to a station
near Longreach (Q.) wanted to try his
hand at wild-pig shooting, so the boss
slipped one bullet into the rifle and the
remainder of the box into his pocket,
"The dogs cleared-out !”
and they went for a walk up the creek.
When they found a big boar in a wallow
the boss handed the rifle to the visitor,
and a couple of minutes later, from
separate trees, they looked" down at the
slightly wounded and highly annoyed
pig. It was almost sunset before the
visitor managed to catch a bullet thrown
by the boss —it was the second-last one
of the box —and end the siege.
* * * *
“Klord”: That change of color of
“Jabini’s” lagoon from green to red (B.
24/7/’57) is due to the changing angles
with which sunlight falls on the water.
Green slime found on stagnant water
contains abundant chlorophyll, which
appears green by transmitted light and
red by reflected light. Early-morning and
late-afternoon rays pass through the
water, but midday rays, being closer to
the vertical, are reflected. With trans-
mitted light chlorophyll absorbs all colors
but green, and with reflected light it
becomes fluorescent, absorbing sunlight
and releasing it at a greater wavelength
as red light.
* * * *
“Q. Ree”: Didn’t like the burnt-rubber
smell pervading my kitchen; I sniffed
the stove wiring— not that; the iron—not
that. At last I lifted the lid .of the pot
in which my housegirl was cooking what
I thought was tapioca. There, boiling
away in all its repulsive glory, was the
answer to a Fijian housemaid’s prayer—
a flying-fox.
* * * *
“Squinter”: An application for
grazing-rights on two islands in Shark
Bay (W.A.) —Bernier and Dorre—can't
be granted because these islands harbor
the last remaining stands of four
marsupial species: the Warrup wallaby;
banded-hare wallaby ; the barred bandi-
coot ; and Lesueur's rat-kangaroo. These
species are now believed to be extinct
on the mainland, and if they are
it’s the grazing by domestic stock and
other interference to their natural habitat
that's destroyed them. Another marsupial,
the quokka, which thrives on Rottnest to
the extent that it's in danger of over-
populating the island, has become prac-
tically extinct on the mainland, where it
was, once plentiful. Its only mainland
address now is a swampy area where the
undergrowth is thick enough to discourage
stock and imported marauders. Once
that goes the quokka's only refuge will
be on Rottnest. Thus, these offshore
islands can be invaluable.
* * * *
“Myall”: The grub found by “J.R.”
(B. 14/8/’57) in a Queensland-nut was
the caterpillar of the macadamia-nut
borer, Arotrophora ambrodelta. The
moth lays its eggs on the flowers or the
green husks of the developing fruits, and
the larva, when it emerges, penetrates
into the young nuts and feeds on the
kernel. The small hole made by the larva
soon callouses over and is very hard to
detect. Developing into a full-grown
caterpillar, yellowish-brown with a pink
stripe along the back, it eats its way
through the still-soft shell until only a
thin layer of tissue remains between it
and the outside. Changing later into a
moth, it breaks through the thin mem-
branes and escapes. The grub often
causes heavy losses to nut-growers.
* * * *
“Flight”: At sundown I watched a
magpie playfully swoop on a crow
going about his unlawful occasions and
tweak his tail-feathers. Kelly let out a
croak of protest. Maggie took a better
grip, hunched, and jerked him back into
second gear. The crow reckoned it was a
case of assault-and-battery and gave the
general-alarm signal. Maggie knew that
call: she took time off for a swift recco,
and. satisfied no reinforcements were
being deployed, got stuck into the sable
fowl again, and this time she really p U t
the heat on, using every trick in the
aerobatics book. Kelly did the only thing
left—he dived into the nearest gidyea.
I’ll swear 1 saw a grin on Maggie’s dial as
she did a victory side-slip before heading
back home.
* * * *
“Emel”: Our town’s new youth-
centre, according to one citizen, “is being
built because kids have nowhere to go at
night.” “But,” a contemporary reminded
him, “they knew where to go when
Dinny Black, the policeman, met them
on the street. He gave them a boot and
told them to go home!” Crude, maybe—
but we had no trouble with juvenile
delinquents in Dinny Black’s day.
* * * *
“Miss M.”: Woe, alas —Neville Cayley
has let me down. In What Bird Is That?
he says the spotted bower-bird has a
“harsh, grating call” —a description which
all the bird's acquaintances will recognise.
Had he but added, “also a variety of
catlike sounds,” he’d have saved me from
exposing my ignorance by calling them
“feline imitations.” Having had a life-
long conviction overturned by “Saaedi”
and “Phil Anthus” (B. 17/7/’57),. I’m now
thoroughly confused. Are those birds
imitating that baby's undeniably catlike
voice, or merely commenting, in their
own language, on what they believe to
be her attempts to mimic them?
DREAM OF MOONLIGHT
As the cor dived over the cliff’s dark face,
we knew : This is the end,
there is no going back ; no return to our
wild wet garden,
hoirie-streef at evening with last of day-
light reddened,
friend met casually, clasp of a waiting
lover—
just this final swerve — bank, cliff, hidden
bend —
and we conscious of that fractional
shocked hover
before the downward plunge . . . of the
shrinking nerve . . .
wind rushing into our ears like warlock
laughter,
and frantic query flashing: What comes
after ?
But no crash came —only a smooth
emergence,
like Meandering into a park with the crowd
departed.
It was moonlight in Heaven, it was cool
as a well,
with air smooth on the lips as muscatel ;
and as we pressed on through that world
of chrome
under spreading trees, white-boled, with
branches parted
hugging shadows to them lovingly, wt
felt free as foam,
birdlike, enchanted. We were dancing,
enraptured to discover Heaven so like
home.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


MENTION of Wewak and Bill Mac-
gregor by “Cloviski MacOdoacer”
(B. 10/7/’57) brought back memories.
Bill and 1 parted on the Sepik, he to
take our recruits to Madang, I to find a
road through the then-unknown central
strip between the river and the coast.
For some days I camped on the beach
near Boram, then one morning at dawn
heard an anchor-chain running out. The
mud had scarcely time to settle when I
was on board the Mataram by canoe and
making for the bar.
My first gin-sling was being mixed
when the Kiap (Assistant District Officer)
and his wife bustled in. I’d beaten them
by a short head.
After about our ninth pink-gin the
conversation ran something like this:
Missus belong Kiap: “Where is that
friend of yours —that delightful Mr,
Macgregor?”
Me: “In Madang. Waiting for me.”
M. b. K.: “After your long stay in the
bush no doubt you’re pleased to be back
in civilisation and have a change of food.”
Me: “I’m waiting for the breakfast-
bell. Some grilled steak will be number-
one.”
M. b. K.: “Oh, surely you wouldn’t
eat steak for breakfast?”
Me: “Too right. About a pound.”
M. b. K. (calling to her husband):]
“Fred! Fred!”
Fred (staggering from the bar grasping
three gin-slings): “Yes, my deah?”
M. b. K.: “Fred, Mr. Macgregor’s
friend here says he will have a pound
of grilled steak for breakfast. Steak J”
(on a rising note).
• Fred (trying to look sternly at me, and
in his best English accent): “Steak, you
say? For breakfast? My God. old man,
surely not! A kipper at most.”
If anywhere from Wewak to Madang
“Cloviski” is ever asked by an old hand
to have a kipper for breakfast he’ll know;
where the joke originated.
Bill’s Mate.
* * * *
“Zake”: As a fellow tripe-hater—I
have always deplored the humiliation
suffered by such a noble vegetable as the
onion in having to be cooked with the
stuff—I have every sympathy with the
bloke who bitterly described the blood-
less, pallid fodder on his plate as “boiled
knitting.”
* * «* *
“Kenyas”: The feeding-habits of birds
offer strange contrasts. Magpies make no
fuss over theirs; one gulp and it’s gone.
Kookaburras fly off and thrash it against
branches, rocks or fence-rails till they
reduce it to a state fit for swallowing.
Butcher-birds attach theirs to thorns or
dry twigs and tear pieces off as required.
Pigeons treat their ration to the most
involved preparations before they dispose
of it: frequently they throw it high in
the air and then make a concerted rush
at it, though it’s usually the thrower who
misses-out. Silent workers are the
rosellas when helping themselves to
berries on the hawthorns. You’d never
guess they were there if they didn’t
chance to drop bunches of the spoil from
time to time. Last week we were honored
by a distinguished bird-visitor; a grace-
ful, beautifully-groomed crane, the first
we’ve seen here in 40 years of residence.
He looked right out of his element stilting
along among the jonquils and violets.
* * * *
“Volca”: Vesuvius, if I may erupt into
print about it, has exploded some 10
times or so since the famous eruption of
a.d. 79—in 472, 512, 1631, 1794, 1822,
1855, 1871, 1906, ’29 and ’44. Largely
because of the ashes and dust ejected on
the surrounding countryside, the soil
thereabouts is very rich. In particular
there are grown on the slopes of Vesuvius
the grapes from which is made the wine
devoutly known as Lachrimae Christ!.
Because of the richness of the district, a
large population risks living there. For
Vesuviu is, of course, still an active
volcano; but, as with all other volcanoes,
it will eventually become extinct. This is
brought about largely by action of wind
and rain, and running water, so it won’t
be for a long time yet. The disappearance
of an active Vesuvius could result in a
“Why, Charlie Huggup, you've grown a beard!"
real lowering of soil-quality and so, para-
doxically, of tbe neighboring population.
Also, perhaps, of the beforementioned
luxuriant wine-making grape, which, I
think, grows only on Vesuvius.
* * * *
“W FT”- Amonp the sadlv
W.P.T. . Among tn e sady
neglected tombs m old St. Lukes
cemetery at Liverpool (N.S.W.) is that
of Captain Eber Bunker, the pioneer of
the Australian whaling industry. Captain
Bunker, master of the William and Ann
bringing a load of convicts here, was so
pleased with what he saw along the ccasf
that on his return to England he induced
a company to outfit the 362-ton Albion
for whaling in Australian waters. He
was very successful, increasing his catch
until by 1804 he was taking home 1300
barrels of whale-oil for that year. No
claim to fame is made on his tombstone,
which simply reads: “Captain Eber
Bunker, grandfather of the above, who
died 1836, aged 74 years.” The grand-
child referred to was Francis Aird
Blackett, who was aged three years.
* * * *
“Old Phizog”: Old-timer showing me
round his place, and coming to the checks
I asked him if the foxes, plentiful there,
thieved any of his hens. “Not these” he
chuckled, flinging a thumb in the direction
of the little rusty busybody bantams.
“They climb the trees and dig the jack-
asses out o’ the ants’ nests 1”
# * * *
“Liewahlo”: On a pre-war tourist run
to Cairns a precise little old man betook
himself and bis neat goatee to the
stewards’ pantry to inquire the time of
afternoon-tea. He was told half-pasf-
three. Twenty minutes later he was back
with the same inquiry and got the same
reply. About 3.15 the goatee poked itself
around the pantry door, and the tourist
demanded waspishly: “ Steward! When
is afternoon-tea to be served?” The
steward ’ wh ° was contemplating tossing-
m his notice anyway, blew up. Seizing a
fistful of whiskers, he dragged the owner
across the floor, and, between doing a
war-dance of rage and swinging on the
goalee as on a bell-rope, intoned: “Tea,
tea, tea, at balf-pasl-tbree! Get out, you
old ——l”


BRAVE NEW ELECTRONIC WORLD!
XV7 ALTER SCOTT, the
* * Sydney management con-
sultant, has produced, in
A ustralia and the Challenge oj
Change, a provocative, stimu-
lating, somewhat startling, and
undoubtedly fascinating volume
on the brave new technological
and economic world of the
second half of the twentieth
century.
Start it, and you are at
once in the world of electronics,
atomics, automation, servo-
mechanics, petrochemicals and
all the fascinating, rather
stunning research and develop-
ments of the present age.
Productivity
And after 373 well-printed,
well-documented and mostly
very readable pages journeying
through the records of tech-
nological development, Walter
Scott comes to the same con-
clusion as The Bulletin has
long since arrived at, and
which Mr. Scott himself has
previously dealt with in another
book—the challenge to Aus-
tralia of the change that is
taking place is one of produc-
tivity. “The keystone of pro-
gress by every industrialised
country is productivity. The
major aim of every semi-
developed country in the world
is to increase its productivity.
The underdeveloped countries
of the world are awakening to
a productivity call, because
they see in it the one way
whereby their economic
shackles can be loosed.” From
then on, until page 525, Mr.
Scott deals principally with the
Australian aspect of techno-
logical changes. But he also
deals expertly with the
economic and industrial
problems of the Commonwealth
as well.
Electronics and Automation
Scott, early in his book, says
that despite the wonders and
promises of atomics, some of
the foremost thinkers of the
world claim first place in pro-
gress for electronics, and
perhaps for communications
within that sphere. But he is
fully aware himself of the
hazards of attempting to plot
in advance the course of the
Second Industrial Revolution.
He mentions that the tower ot
the Empire State Building in
New York was originally
intended as a mooring-mast and
landing for ’'dirigible balloons.
Today there is not a single
zeppelin afloat in the world.
However that may be, the
revolutionary results already
achieved over the past 10 or
20 years are prodigious in
themselves.
Electronics are described, in
a practical sense, as being the
science and technology which
deals primarily with the supple-
menting of man s senses and
his brain-power by devices
which collect and process
information, transmit it to the
"Say when!"
point needed, and there either
control equipment or present
the processed information to
human-beings for their direct
use.
Pointing out that as recently
as the 1930’s the electronics
industry as such did not exist,
Scott says that “today, wher-
ever there is modern produc-
tion technology, there is elec-
tronics, and this accounts for
the statement that whereas in
the First Industrial Revolution
man’s strength was replaced by
the power of the machine, in
the Second his judgment will be
replaced by electronic controls.
It is little wonder, therefore,
that the electronics industry
today has wide technical,
industrial, social and even
political implications.”
Again, on this score, “Com-
puting-machines and brains
alike store information, but
the storage of information in
the best computing-machine
yet devised does not compare
with that of the brain. Thus
the brain is at its best in the
performance of operations in-
volving a great deal of stored
information and a very complex
synthesis of that information.
The computing-machine or
factory-control machine, on
the other hand, is at its best in
the speedy and accurate per-
formance of relatively simple
operations.”
There are many machines in
operation today which are
automatic save that they cannot
remedy their own mistakes,
such as breaking a thread in an
automatic loom. But, says
Scott, it is now possible'to build
“inspection” into a machine.
Where this inspection-device
indicates that something is
wrong, the machine adjusts
itself automatically through a
process called “feedback.”
Scott quotes John Diebold's
book Automation (1952) for
the best definition of this
(automation) process: “The
integration of machines with
each other into fully automatic
and, in some cases, self-regulat-
ing systems.” Another defini-
tion quoted is “continuous
automatic production.” Mr.
Scott adds: “It is generally
accepted that the word ‘auto-
mation’ is a contraction of
‘automatic operation,” but
someone has pointed out that
it could well be a combination
of the words ‘automatic’ and
‘imagination,’ because these
two words express the im-
portant elements of automa-
tion.”
Equipping for the Future
He also points out that
capital-expenditure on auto-
mation will have to be very
soundly conceived and far-
sighted if white-elephants in
plant are to be avoided, and
considerable assurance will be
needed that the proposed pro-
ducts will be acceptable, and a
steady programme of con-
sumer-education and -condi-
tioning will be required. The
emphasis will be on distribu-
tion. A higher standard of
technical skills and manage-
ment will be called for.
With regard to atomic power,
Scott points out that when
reaction takes place in a
reactor —a pile or a furnace —
for the generation of power or
other useful purpose, the blast
effect is prevented, the radiation
is checked by shields of lead
and concrete, and the heat is
transferred to a boiler. There
steam is made to turn a turbine
and so produce electricity.
Atomic energy does not itself
flow over transmission-lines ; it
merely provides a different
fuel to produce thermal energy.
“There is general acceptance
of the fact,” says Scott, “that
atomic energy could be decisive
in the struggle to bring peace
and plenty to the world. Atomic
power and other atomic indus-
trial applications have captured
the imagination of the world
because of the broad vistas of
economic development which
they seem to open. Many have
been led to believe that the
solution to the problems of the
world lies with these develop-
ments —power to bring pros-
perity and better living-
standards to underdeveloped
nations.”
Petrochemicals
In the realm of petro-
chemicals, there are envisaged
tunnels, bridges, dams, fac-
tories and hotels made of
petrochemicals, and virtually
indestructible. Petrochemicals,
alnfost unknown to the public
in 1940, were developed largely
during the war-time search for
synthetic strategic materials,
such’as rubber. These oil-based
compounds are now the most
versatile products serving man-
kind.
By rearranging the molecules
scientists can transform oil or
gas into raw materials capable
of being made into almost any-
thing and everything man


Cep* r«
\
QUEENSLAND
\
NEW SOUTH WALES f
V f
r^Kl.
victopTT^X
o rttond
"From
Cape York
to
Portland"-
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITFD
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Norman J. Carson,
C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton. General Manager:
John Larritt. Manager: ,C. N. Williams. Resident Officer
for Northern Victoria and the Riverina; S. L. G. MacDonald
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman)*
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman)’
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E.. Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: A. B. Tilemann. Assistant Manager: A. G. W*.
Dent. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District Repre-
sentative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman)*
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon*
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT23
requires, though few may recog-
nise the finished product as
petrochemicals.
Distribution and Exchange
And so from the brave new
technological world of automa-
tion and atomics to the rather
less brave and more confusedly
human one of distribution and
exchange. This is no new
problem. During the depres-
sion of the 1930’s it was
commonly averred that one of
the causes of the depression
was that the means of distribu-
tion had not kept pace with the
means of production.
Mr. Scott now says,,quite
truly., that the urgency of solv-
ing some of the distribution
problems is, if possible, greater
than ever before because of the
advent of automation. “There
is no parallel in the marketing-
area today for tremendous
advances being made in manu-
facturing. In the final analysis,
the success of automation in
the factory will depend upon
the success of the selling-
function in disposing of the
increased quantity of produc-
tion.” He adds that “self-
service stores, where the con-
sumer does everything for
himself except add-up his bill,
are the retail counterpart of the
factory assembly-line, and a
step towards automation in
distribution.”
AND AUSTRALIA
JN that part of his volume
dealing specifically with the
challenge of technological
change to Australia, Walter
Scott emphasises that the
changeover to automation and
other modern capital equipment
is costly—far more costly than
old plant being replaced. The
same sort of thing applies to
new buildings.
This increases the need for
more capital, of which Aus-
tralia is already short. It also
increases the competition for
what capital is already avail-
able, especially in view of the
run-down condition of Aus-
tralian railways and other
transport-systems.
In other words, the need for
capital to keep necessary con-
ventional equipment operating
is high now ; but the cost of
automated plant will make still
further demands.
Scott emphasises that Aus-
tralia cannot stand aside from
the march of world events, but
that it will have some choice
in the speed with which it
embraces technological pro-
gress.
The Technological Race
The whole world is in the
technological race, including
underdeveloped Asian countries
near to us in the north, and
“technological progress will go
on with us or in spite of us.’’
But our capital resources will
constitute a continual brake on
our desires.
As to underdeveloped
countries in particular, Scott
says that Russia’s example to
the underdeveloped countries
should never be underestimated.
Until the post-war period it was
taken for granted that indus-
trial progress by the under-
developed countries would be a
centuries-long process. But
“several things have changed
much of this and have
prompted the awakening of the
underdeveloped countries to
the fact that their standard of
living may be capable of big
improvement quickly and,
what is more, they are going
out after it.”
U.S. and Soviet Aid
The ideological line-up and
the first shots in the economic
cold war have favored the
underdeveloped countries. Both
the U.S.A. and the Soviet have
granted large sums to .under-
developed countries, and, whilst
these are often tied to loyalties
and treaties, “the effect upon
industrial development cannot
be underestimated. By these
means they have provided the
greatest single aid to progress-
capital.”
On this question of capital-
shortage within Australia Mr.
Scott concludes:
(1) Australia faces tremendous
capital -demands in the next
decade, both in respect to govern-
mental development projects and
requirements by private industry.
(2) Capital is thus likely to be
the major Australian headache
in the next decade, and progress,
both in Governments and indus-
try, will be measured according
to the success or failure in
measuring-up to capital require-
men ts.
(3) Beyond doubt the soundest
and most desirable way to in-
crease capital resources is by
greater productivity and lower
prices.
(4) Australia’s future will de-
pend, too, upon the division of
capital resources between the
various bodies, whose demands
are almost certain to be greater
than the amount available. This
will make for difficult political
and industrial decisions.
Scott adds : “Undoubtedly by
far the best way to increase
savings is by increasing pro-
ductivity. To the extent that
this secures a fall in prices
through lower costs of produc-
tion, personal savings can grow,
and therefore capital in greater
amount will be available to the
country, unless it is eaten-up
by greater consumer-expendi-
lure.’
He says also: “Productivity
is one of the biggest single
factors in securing reduction in,
or preserving, costs. It is in
every sense vital to Australia.”
This is especially so, of course,
in respect of defence,
Walter Scott’s book is
thoroughly stimulating and
instructive reading to anyone
interested in current affairs,
Though it deals with the


BY APPOINTMENT TO
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHNNIE
WAMtER
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
J W. 184.1 2
massive developments and
problems of the atomic and
economically complex world of
today there is never a dull
moment in it. It wraps
interesting fact and illuminating
example around its strong
central theme, and is in no
sense dogmatic. Wherever
possible facts and examples are
left to speak for themselves.
Mr. Scott is well aware, as
indicated previously, of the pit-
falls awaiting the too-venture-
some step of the prophet. But
away from any world of pro-
phecy the book is abounding
in the astonishing facts of the
present age, and the conclu-
sions and counsel deriving
therefrom are clearly to be
considered.
Australia and the Challenge
of Change is'a well-bound, well-
indexed volume of 550 pages,
published by the Law Book Co.
of Australia at 755. Unlike
works on similar subjects that
might be published overseas,
Scott’s book is designed from
the beginning to be of use to
Australians.
Imports of Experts i
[From L, OwenJ
VERY country in the world
—at one time or another in
its history—has developed out-
standing skills in specialised
operations. Ordinarily, this is
not due to exceptional intel-
lectual or physical charac-
teristics, but to slow, sometimes
almost imperceptible, improve-
ments in technique, generation
after generation, and to the
environment thus brought
about.
In Australia we have, for
instance, the fast-disappearing
overland drover and the 22-
team bullocky, and we are
rapidly attaining an enviable
reputation in the manufacture
of many classes of manufac-
tured goods.
On the geological side, owing
to special and difficult problems
in ore-finding and ore-winning
and the opportunity of training
amongst those problems, we
have developed a breed of
mining-geologist second to
none. With reference to
petroleum, it is unfortunate
that we lack producing oilfields,
long residence on which is an
essential item in the develop-
ment of the petroleum-
geologist.
It has become necessary,
therefore, to import experts in
this specialised branch to guide
and control the search for oil
in this part of the world.
Enough work has already been
done here to prove that the
difficulties which we have to
surmount before attaining
commercial production are
enormous.
The problems facing us
demand not only many years
of experience in “normal” oil-
fields, but long—and often un-
requited—labor in areas whose
complexities have points in
common with those which face
us on this continent. Such
areas occur, notably, in
Colombia, Venezuela and the
Carpathians (once a happy
training-ground for British oil-
hounds, but now behind the
Iron Curtain).
Some of the oil-companies
operating in Australia have,
very wisely, brought in experts
with long overseas experience.
It is unfortunate that the cost
of such importation is beyond
the financial strength of many
of the smaller cos. Where that
is so, however, such companies
should be out of the oil game,
anyway.
In the case of two recent
visitors—whose tours of the
areas held by the respective
cos. which engaged them were
far too short —it is very obvious
that they fully appreciated the
difficulties ahead. Both of
these experts, in their published
reports and statements, con-
fined themselves, almost
entirely, to noncommittal pro-
nouncements with reference to
the oil-prospects of the
parts they had visited or to
generalities as to the possibility
of striking commercial petro-
leum within the Common-
wealth.
Victoria Regina
[From “Doormat”]
ACCORDING to Premier
Bolte, Victoria’s stability is
the envy of all the other States
of Australia. He can even
show that as a result of the
efforts being put up by his
Government at least half of the
future development of the
Commonwealth will come
about through Victoria’s
efforts.
Apart from Bolte's natural
pride in his own administra-
tion, it certainly does appear
to the most unbiased onlooker
that Victoria is definitely oa
the march. We have even seen
migrants who have gone direct
to other States now wanting to
come to Victoria.
Also, overseas industrialists
with millions to invest have
already taken action to start
new plants there. Some have
even gone to the outer large
country centres. Although
decentralisation was something
quite difficult to achieve, Bolte
seems to be persuading
investors to keep away from
the already-overcrowded Mel-
bourne centre.
A refreshing angle to note
about the Bolte set-up is that it
seems to be almost impervious
to pressure-tactics. Although
there have been threats of
strikes galore and industrial
hold-ups, there has just been the
opposite in fact. There have
been fewer of these things in
Victoria than in any other State.
One of the few stoppages in
Bolte’s time has been a one-
day transport hold-up, and that
affected mainly the metro-
politan area.
Without wanting to appear
tc be pumping any policy-
speech, it is interesting to look
at one of the vital aspects of
qny administration that is,
schools. Before Bolte and his
boys took over, the average
number of new schools built
each year was close on the 500-
mark. But in Bolte’s first year
they reached 800, and halfway
through 1957 over another 800
were already built.
Bolte seems, too, to like to
have a crack at dynamite ques-
tions. In addition to the liquor
referendum, he also had a go
at extended shopping-hours and
petrol-selling times.
Yes, sir—the Scrub State is
growing-up!
The Retail Trade
X/ALUE of turnover in the
* retail trade throughout
Australia moved up in the
March quarter of this year.
All States showed an advance.
This is an improvement on
the December (Christmas)
quarter of 1956, when sales of
hardware, china, etc., recorded
a setback, though other items
moved forward.
The most disconcerting set-
back occurred in the September
(Budget) quarter of 1956, when
clothing, hardware, electrical
goods and furniture and floor-
coverings were all down. Only
food, liquor, etc., were up in
that period.


“But, Father , with all these dollars coming in, surely I can keep a FEW more wives!”


HOWS
Stage and Music
“La Boheme”
Robin Lovejoy’s production
of Puccini’s opera, which
opened the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust’s Sydney season on
Saturday night, lays greater
emphasis on the ebullience of
the comedy than in other per-
formances of recent years, and
this to the general benefit of
the presentation.
The carefree life of the poet
Rudolph and his bohemian
friends was pointed-up
admirably in the first act by
the flippancies which cul-
minated in the importunate
and bibulous landlord Benoit
being incontinently tossed out
neck-and-crop by the quartet
with such realism that one
almost expected a howl of
anguish to be wrung from
John Young. The sheer spon-
taneity of the horseplay
immediately preceding it lent
greater emphasis to the
dramatic entrance of Musetta
in the final act to announce the
imminence of Mimi’s death;
and Lovejoy gave the Cafe
Momus scene good color and
kept the joviality bubbling.
In general the acting and
singing were exceptionally
good. Elsie Morrison’s Mimi
could not but wring sympathy
and compassion ; in the love-
music her lyric-soprano always
had the bloom of freshness
upon it, and in the death-bed
singing she showed the maturity
of her musicianship when she
whittled the tone away until it
was only a shadow of its
former lilting robustness.
Max Worthley, a manly
Rudolph, was initially short of
ardor in both departments, and
this robbed the latter part of
his “Narrative” of some of the
passionate intensity which is the
due of the phase leading to the
climactic high note, but he
made amends later and sang
with style and assurance.
Joy Mammen was a fiery
Musetta, giving a Carmen-like
touch of viciousness and
coquetry to her affaires ; she
sang the big waltz song with
fine verve.
Baritones Neil Easton and
Alan Light sang the roles of
Marcel the painter and
Schaunard the musician agree-
ably and gave plenty of anima-
tion to their comedy. John
Young in the dual roles of
Benoit and the fatuous, elderly
gallant Alcindoro had less need
to call on his considerable
vocal powers than on comic-
character-study, which he
handled quite well. But among
the men singers the honors went
to Neil Warren-Smith, who
poured a rich-quality bass with
telling effect into the philo-
“ When We finish paying for the TV, We'll have to buy some venetian-blinds.”
sopher Colline’s philosophical
farewell to the overcoat he is
about to “hock” to buy
medicine for the dying Mimi.
Of the ensembles, the out-
standing one was the Quartet of
Act 111. Here Puccini excelled
himself, painting a musical
scene with a skill not far short
of that which Verdi drew upon
in his more famous essay in the
form ; in the neatly-interlaced
bickerings between Marcel and
Musetta, and the tender
passages between Rudolph and
Mimi, the four voices blended
attractively, with volume-
balance nicely held.
Joseph Post’s direction of
orchestra and singers was keen
and taut, and allowed not even
a momentary swamping of any
singer’s volume. The incidental
orchestral touches, such as the
descending chord that comically
indicates one of the revellers
tumbling down the garret-
stairs as they depart in the first
act, were stated with the right
degree of emphasis.
❖ ♦> ❖
The Smetana Quartet
This string-ensemble from
Czechoslovakia could scarcely
have caused more raised eye-
brows if they had appeared in
singlets and shorts than when
they trooped on to the platform
-of Sydney Town Hall to sit
without benefit of “desks” and
scores for their three-quartet
concert. This entire playing
from memory—the first in this
writer’s recollection among
visiting quartet players be-
spoke notable self-confidence in
nerve-wracked writing for the
viola and ’cello, lacked nothing
in virility and virulence.
The Fourth Quartet from
Beethoven’s Opus 18 was an
essay in passion in which the
four strings sang with eager
voices and with rising and
compelling excitement the
quartet here gave clear evidence
that they do their most impres-
sive work in the realm of
strong emotions.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Murder in the Cathedral”
T. S. Eliot’s tightly-drawn
argument between Crown and
Church, or Henry and Thomas,
with the people pawns in the
game whichever way the fight
went, was extremely well
rendered by the Melbourne
National Theatre on its small
stage, with vestments -and altar
dressings borrowed from St.
Patrick’s, which rears its stately
all four, and their achievement
showed it was certainly not
misplaced.
The warm sentiment and the
wistful nostalgia which run so
strongly through Smetana’s
“From My Life” quartet were
enriched by the beautiful
cantabile-\ik& playing of the
two violinists, Jiri Novak and
Lubomir Kostecky. The largo
was most devotedly wrought,
and the work of the ’cello
against the agitated chords of
the fiddles in the allegretto was
outstanding.
Janacek’s Second Quartet, an
uneven work in which attrac-
tive lyricism rubs shoulders with
spires into the sky just across
the road from the squat
pseudo-Gothic playhouse.
The pity of it was, seeing that
the play was so well done and
so reverently handled, that it
was not enacted in the dignified
interior of the cathedral, which
the present writer visited before
he dropped in at the perform-
ance. A solemn service was
proceeding, a choir was sing-
ing and a priest was kneeling
at the splendid altar, and, in
outward appearance at any
rate, the scene reproduced, on
a grand scale, the situation in


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
lirectors: THOMAS A. MAGUEY, Chairman ; F. W. Vuesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. G. Parker.
]j. H. MOULTON. Managing Director.
’Phone: BW 8361.
P. BURDON, Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States .
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Sulscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS *.
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £B/18/6 Foreign .... £»/«/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.t Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
the play where Saint Thomas
turns to the altar and waits for
the drunken knights sent by
Henry to plunge their swords
into his dedicated body.
As Thomas, Lisle Jones, a
heavily-built man with a round
Norman head, full lips and
intent eyes, seldom moved and
never acted, but he succeeded
in conveying the feelings of
the predestined martyr,
especially when he mounted
the pulpit and delivered his
last sermon before going to
the slaughter, letting T. S.
Eliot’s arguments take their
own course.
The chorus of Canterbury
women provided a solemn
obbligato. Peter Knight, Peter
Hewitt and Blair Edgar were
singularly innocuous as the
three priests, but Neville Irons,
Nevil Thurgood, Malcolm
Phillips and Ronald Falk were
splendid. As bits of the world,
the flesh and the Devil, they
were as rich and real as a piece
of beefsteak.
♦>
Variations on a Theme
(From Herbert Holman, London]
That most unorthodox and
far-seeking impresario Henry
Sherek is to be congratulated
for introducing Claude
Magnier’s comedy “Odd Man
In,” which, in Robin
Maugham’s adaptation from
the French, is doing good
business at St. Martin’s Theatre.
This comedy is at once in-
genious, effervescent, eco-
nomical, witty and brilliantly
sustained. A cast of three
only, two men and one woman,
and a single unelaborate set
commends it to the attention
of any Little Theatre that is
fortunate enough to possess a
producer with a light,
imaginative touch and three
actors of personality and sense
of humor.
The theme is the triangle and
the basic situation is artificial
comedy’s oldest ally, com-
promise. A sophisticated wife
is somewhat uneasily rustica-
ting in the wilds. Sleeping
badly, she takes a large dose of
sedative. Another old dramatic
friend, the mysterious stranger,
appears from the dusk in search
of a telephone because his
car has broken down and he
doesn’t know where he is.
Thirsty, he drinks up what is
left of the sedative. Hence,
when the husband appears un-
expectedly in the now-darkened
room, the two are lying side-
by-side on the divan and the
triangle is set for amusing and
remarkable development.
This first act is, notwith-
standing the hoaiy situation,
original, inoffensive and
extremely funny. Furthermore,
the author’s invention is
abundant; he sustains the play
by ringing the changes on the
basic theme, alienating each of
the three in turn from the other
two, until finally husband and
wife are reunited and the inter-
loper is left high and, ridicu-
lously, dry.
The comedy suffers a little
in translation, in mood if not
in matter. Except for Derek
Farr’s stupid bore of a husband,
the “Englishness” of the types
denies the full effects intended.
A French actress, no doubt,
would not consider coquetry in-
consistent with wifely felicity.
Muriel Pavlow apparently
does, although in all other
respects her characterisation is
excellent. Donald Sinden, after
high success in films, makes a
distinguished return to the
stage, for he has personality,
charm and presence. In fact,
he is magnificent, though hot
M. Magnier’s odd man in—a
Gallic adventurer whose plausi-
bility and address were not
derived from an English
public school.
Artbursts
Melbourne Exhibitions
Ambrose Griffin, one-time
pupil of the late Septimus
Power, displays his year’s out-
put at the Athenaeum, Mel-
bourne. Every picture is a
reverent tribute to his master,
both in subject-matter and in
treatment. There are the same
grey gums lining the same
enamelled watercourses, and
the same blue hills and warm
sunlight; there are the shaggy
dogs and the glossy hunters
with their red-coated riders
and the same bowls of
chrysanthemums and camellias.
There are even a few Clydes-
dales.
Pictures by Kevin Meynell,
another Septimus Power pupil,
are showing at the Con-
temporaries’ in Flinders Street.
Kevin was killed in a car
accident a few weeks ago. He
was a young painter of
“considerable promise. He
was the genuine article,
always worrying about his art.
He loved and admired his
gruff, kindly old master, but
wasn’t content to remain in the
rut that every kind of training
tends to develop into. The eight
huge abstractions hanging at
the Contemporaries’ represent
his latest attempt to be experi-
mental. They are pleasant
enough, but don’t reveal much
knowledge. They are not to
be compared with one or two
self-portraits painted when he
was under the influence of
another master. It is a pity
these weren’t hung in the
exhibition.
J. V. O’Connor is hanging
pictures at the Australian
Galleries, Collingwood., He is a
barrister who spends his leisure
painting. In his pictures he
doesn’t argue from a brief, as
no doubt he has to when he
is arguing in a court-room. In
the face of Nature he seems
much more humble than most
contemporary painters, who
are so fond of telling Nature
where she gets off in their
pictures. He loves lovely untidy
places like Dudley Flats,
Fishermen’s Bend, the North
Melbourne tip, the old fish-
market and other frayed edges
of the city, and in some cases
he paints them so well that
you can almost smell them, as
well as see the beauty in them.
Having been fortunate .enough
to have had no conventional
training he has nothing to for-
get and can let Nature teach
him. “Smoke” is good, and,
though they seem to owe some-
thing to Daumier, so are his
market sketches.
Melbourne’s Yorick Club is
repeating the art-competition
which has been so successful
over the past four years, and is
once more offering Australian
painters 50 guineas for the best
pictorial entry. This year oils
as well as watercolors will be
admitted. Entries close on
September 14, judging takes
place in the last week in Sep-
tember and the judge will be a
qualified artist. Winning pic-
ture remains the property of
the club, but any dough accru-
ing from sale of pictures at
the subsequent exhibition will
go into the artists’ pockets.
Films
“Three Men in a Boat”
This British comedy, “freely
adapted” from the novel by
Jerome K. Jerome, has, as the
three men, Jimmy (“Take It
From Here”) Edwards, David
Tomlinson and Laurence
Harvey.
Edwards is the bumptious
gentleman long engaged to a


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BAR RE RE
No Pads —
No Springs
The neo - BAR-
rere acts like
a hand wh“n
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, '-control
your hernia with comtort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful •by all who
have tried it.
Write today for Free Literature
Barrere Distribution Company
Dept. 3u, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Legal Notice
BERTHA GUSTAFEINE (or GUSTF-
FEINE) LANGEMEIER (daughter of
HEINRICH FRIEDRICH LANGEMEIER
and DORETTA LANGEMEIER. horn
CASLER (or KASSLER) died in New
South Wales on 16th July, 1945, with-
out having been married.—PURSUANT
to an Order of the Supreme Court of
New South Wales in Equity Jurisdic-
tion dated 13th August 19:31 and made
in Suit (No. 497 of 1954) entitled “In
the matter of the Estate of BERTH \
GUSTAFEINE LANGEMEIER late of
Orange in the State of New South Wales
deceased, intestate, BETWEEN THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Plaintiff, and
HARVEY DERRICK WOOD, De-
fendant, whereby the following inquiry
was directed, namely: who were the
persons entitled, according to the
Statutes for the distribution of Intes-
tate Estates, to the estate of the
said BERTHA GUSTAFEINE LANGE-
MEIER deceased living at her death
and whether any of them have since
died, and if so, who are their legal
personal representatives; NOTICE IS
HEREBN GIVEN that all persons claim-
ing to be entitled under the said inquiry
are to send by post prepaid to the
Public Trustee, O'Connell Street, Syd-
ney, New South Wales, so as to reach
him on or before the 2nd dav of De-
cember. 1957, their full Christian and
surnames, addresses and descriptions and
full particulars of their claims, or in
default thereof they will be excluded
from the benefit of the said Order,
unless a Judge or the Master in Equity
otherwise orders. Claimants must attend
personally or by counsel or solicitor
before the Master in Equity at the
Supreme Court, Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
on the 9th day. ol' December, 1957, at
11 a.m., being the time appointed for
adjudicating upon the claims, and must
then prove their claims by proper legal
evidence. A claimant not residing in
New South Wales must send with par-
ticulars of his claim the name and
address of a person in New South Wales
to whom notices to the claimant may be
sent. Claimants not residing in New
South Wales are advised to post their
particulars of claim by two mails at an
interval of one week, preferably air-
mail. Dated 20th August, 1957.
McMASTER HOLLAND & CO., 129 Pitt
Street, Sydney, N.S.W. (Solicitors for
Public Trustee).
THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
of high-priced Imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Pla nSl
Music, etc.
SEND FOB
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents—
SYDNEY W.
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE »
PERTH
C. Penfold As Co. Pty. Mj*
Norman Bros. Pty*
Vardon Price Ltd.
Docket Book Co. (AosLI
young thing whose ogrelike
mother is demanding that the
question be put; he’s not real
keen. Tomlinson, an old
fiiend, is the dithering married
man a little browned-off with
married -life ; he thinks he’d
like a break. Harvey, a mutual
friend, is an amorous young
bank-clerk who’s having girl-
trouble.
In this compliance of moods
the heads go together, and a
pipe-dream materialises: they
off to spend a few restful weeks
boating on the Thames.
There are some hilarious
situations, and the boys draw
some good laughs from them.
The camera also has a holiday
—soaking up Technicolor lens-
ful on lensful of Thames
country scenery, and not miss-
ing the bizarre blazers and
straw hats of the boatmen or
the inevitable pretty girls.
If the film is somehow never
quite as funny as it might be,
it could be that each of the
funny-men types could have
been a fraction more exagger-
ated. And Jimmy Edwards, as
beefy to look at as his voice is
to listen to, and with pink
cheeks and long moustaches to
boot, doesn’t leave quite the
same impact in the flesh as he
has done with a short-wave
“Gently, Bentley.”
❖
“The Shiralee”
Peter Finch draws character
with refreshing sharpness in
this M.-G.-M. screen-version of
D’Arcy Niland’s novel, show-
ing at Sydney St. James.
He is no soaped-up hero, but
a down-to-earth fellow with his
strengths and weaknesses strung
about him ; a tough character,
a bushman who hits the city
only when he must. When he
casts up at The Rocks under
the shadow of Sydney’s bridge
and catches his wife with her
lover, he beats him up, heaves
his protesting spouse aside,
grabs his small daughter and
makes for the mulga.
The scenes on the track, and
in the small outback towns
where he takes, odd jobs and
leaves his small daughter to
her own devices, ring true
enough, and, though some of
the characters fail to measure
up, there are others who do
ring a bell—such as Charles
Tingweill’s hatter who talks to
his beloved Castlereagh and
spouts poetry at the drop of a
hat,
Dana Wilson, the tough
bloke’s burden, his “shiralee,”
is delightfully natural, with her
missing-teeth grin, her awkward
questions, her cheerful accep-
tance of the disabilities and
hardships of life on the track
and of her father’s gruffness
that hides a growing affection
for her. It is the relationship
between father and daughter
which lends charm to the film ;
the superimposed romance
with the squatter’s daughter is
its weakest feature.
❖ ❖ *t+
“The Lost Continent”
This fascinating record of an
Italian film-expedition through
Malaya and Borneo gives a
detailed and revealing insight
into Eastern customs, traditions,
beliefs and culture.
There is a fearsome ritual
on the brink of a steaming
volcano - crater into which
villagers fling goats and other
sacrifices to appease some
supposedly wrathful god dwell-
ing therein ; a colorful wedding-
ceremony on a sampan ; yoked-
oxen races in which the drivers
have to balance precariously
on two trailed sticks ; a prize-
fight, with fists, feet, knees
and all ; the events leading up
to a young Bornean head-
hunter’s nuptials—these and
other absorbing episodes have
been presented with a natural
eye for artistic effect, retaining
dignity where it is called for
and leavening it with humor
where that is apt.
The sound-track has been
put to shrewd use, and the
running-commentary is on a par
with those in the Walt Disney
nature-study series. At Sydney
Esquire.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Gun-runner”
Wherever there has been a
fight for independence Holly-
wood has discovered that a
brace of red-blooded Yank
mercenaries have always been
on hand willing to
patch up their own differences,
temporarily, for the sake of the
gold to be got from running
guns for the revolutionaries.
The unvarying climax is that,
when they’ve collected, one
will drop the other in a beat-
you-to-the-draw, and that the
survivor must be the one the
girl favors.
All these specifications are
faithfully followed in this case,
with Cuba’s revolt against
Spain as the excuse, and with
Alan Ladd as the man of
inaction. At Sydney Plaza.
+J4 •»£♦ +!♦
“The Bad and the Beautiful”
This Franco-Mexican film,
based on the Sartre novel and
set in a hot, squalid Mexican
village—as sharp a study in
lethargy and decadence as the
fine Clouzet-directed “Wages
of Fear” concerns the
redemption of a drink-sodden
French doctor during an
epidemic of spotted-fever and
under the influence of a young
compatriot whose husband is
the first fatality in the out-
break.
The film derives its strength
from its realism, from the
perfectly maintained atmos-
phere of the village with the
inhabitants’ addiction to inane
pleasures while others are
dying around them, and from
the excellent characterisation.
Michele Morgan gives a
sensitive portrayal of the
widow who, fighting a tempta-
tion to drift along with the
others, is shocked to find that
her bereavement hasn’t caused
her the pain she expected and
is drawn almost against her
will to the derelict doctor,
played with skilful understate-
ment by Gerard Philipe.
Photographed in black-and-
white, with clever use of the
half-gloom of rooms shaded
against the glaring heat out-
side, the film has English sub-
titles thrown on the screen at
a lowered tempo, thus offering
less distraction from the
action than obtains in most
Continental films'.
Greater Union release.
♦l+ +J+ ♦♦♦
“The Spanish Gardener”
This is a fair-enough screen-
version of the Cronin novel
and of its chief characters:
the frigidly-polite British
Consul smarting under the
frustrations of a broken
marriage and his failure to
gain promotion in the service,
and deeply resentful when his
young son turns to the
gardener of the Consular
residence in Spain for friend-
ship ; the gardener, with his
natural dignity, his calm and
polite manner, dissembling the
contempt of which the Consul
becomes maddeningly aware j.
and the sneaking manservant
who tries to play one against
the other.
Michael Hordern, as the
Consul, bores well into the
core of the character; Dirk
Bogarde’s gardener, though
well-enough drawn, makes
him less Spanish than
English ; Jon Whitely gives an
intelligent performance as the
boy who vainly tries to keep a
middle course between his
demanding father and his
friend ; and Cyril Cusack, as
the sly servant, gives the best
performance in the film.
At Hoyts theatres.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
"RESULTS of planning over a long
period are now gaining momentum,
and the mills of B.H.P. and its multi-
farious associates roll on to greater things
each year. Meantime, returns to share-
holders remain modest, large profits being
absorbed in financing the extension of
plant-capacity.
For a period after the war there
appeared to be some hesitancy about the
scope of future operations ; but there is
no doubt now that plans have been well
laid for big expansion. At the present
moment monthly production of ingot-
steel is at the rate of three-million
tons a year, compared with a million
tons in 1939. And the big push of the
new five-year plan is only getting into its
stride.
With its chief subsidiary, Australian
Iron and Steel, Ltd., B.H.P. mines iron-
ore at Iron Knob, near Whyalla (S.A.),
and at Cockatoo Island in Yampi Sound
(W.A.). Pig-iron is produced at New-
castle, Port Kembla and Whyalla ; it has
collieries on both the northern and
southern coalfields of N.S.W., near to
its steelworks ; it has its own shipping-
line to transport iron-ore, coal and lime-
stone ; steel and steel products in a wide
variety are turned-out at Newcastle and
Port Kembla ; and a rolling-mill began
operations at Kwinana (W.A.) in
October, 1956. There are also ship-
building-yards at Whyalla.
Within the past few weeks the long-
planned tinplate works at Port Kembla,
capacity 70,000 tons a year, have come
into operation.
An assortment of important sub-
sidiaries and associated cos. process steel
in various parts of Australia, and are
of great assistance to earning-power.
Main subsidiary, of course, is Australian
Iron and Steel, at Port Kembla, which for
a period outstripped B.H.P. in steel-
production. But last term, with the help
of its No. 2 shop at Port Kembla, B.H.P.
again took the lead in steel-output.
A.I. and S. opened a new continuous
wide hot-strip mill in 1955 ; it produces
the basic strip for the manufacture of
galvanised-iron, car-panels, refrigerators,
washing-machines, a variety of building-
materials and many other items. The
largest installation undertaken by the
group up to that time, it has no doubt
been a useful contributor to profit-
earning since.
Associated cos. produce wire, wire-
ropes, wirenetting, galvanised-iron, steel
pipes, nails, special steels and alloys, stain-
less-steel, hand-tools, tungsten-carbide-
tipped tools, steel fence-posts, cement, oil-
drums and hot-water systems, road-mak-
ing materials and zinc-oxide. During the
past term B.H.P. consolidated its wire-
making interests by acquiring the
holdings of outside shareholders in
Lysaght Bros, and Co. Pty., Ltd., and the
Australian Wire Rope Works Pty., Ltd.
The demand for basic steel by Aus-
tralian industry, and the increasing
requirements of the group’s own steel-
processing plants, sent the combined
tonnage of ingot-steel up 19 p.c. in the
last term, and for the first time Aus-
tralia produced over two-million tons of
pig-iron a year:
Blooming
Coke, Pig-iron, Steel Ingots, Mill,
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
B.H.P. ..1,013,790 972.105 1,386,476 1,013.990
A. I. & S.. 1,012,270 1,112,167 1,315,525 1,283,286
Total,
1957 ..2,026,060 2,084,272 2,702,001 2,297,276
Total,
Uk*<? .. 1£52£01 1,898,197 2,270,522 2,009,5',5 .
B. reports a slight falling-off
in Australian requirements for
some types of steel products, but the
overall demand continues to be heavy,
although at present rather less buoyant.
A limited tonnage of semi-finished
products is being exported at favorable
prices. During the financial year, after
paying freight, these exports netted £2£
million. Volume of exports has since
increased.
Efficiency of new plant has enabled
the group, with the assistance of export-
sales, to absorb increased costs at the
rate of £3 million a year since the last
increase in Australian selling-prices in
May, 1956.
Although the plant-additions completed
in the two years to May 31 are contribu-
ting to the earnings-pool, the tinplate-
works weren’t finished until after the
present term began. So far as the eye
can see in the financial figures disclosed
by 8.H.P., last term showed a momentary
slackening in the momentum of overall
earnings; working-profit and divs.
received from non-subsidiaries (£29.4
million) were up £7.2 million, compared
with a growth of £7.6 million in the
preceding year: —
Consolidated Figures.
(Covering both group and outside interests.)
Gross earnings— 1955. 1956. 1957.
£ £ £
Working profit.. 13,927,358 21,486,751 28,524,106
Divs., etc. .. 681,674 786,738 917,762
Total .. .. 14,609,032 22,273,489 29,441,868
Depreciation .. 6,038,538 6,719,343 7,864,513
Provision plant re-
placement .. 838,000 2,995,000 4,145,000
Taxation .. 4,009,022 5,603,634 9,598,569
Other exes. .. 403,603 475,958 566,776
Total exes. .. 10,289,163 15,793,935 22,174,858
Net profit .. 4,319,869 6,479,554 7,267,010
Profit sale assets.. 21,245 49,452 116,285
After setting aside £7.8 million (up £l.l
million) for depreciation, £4.1 million (up
£1.2 million) for plant-replacement and
£9.6 million (up £4 million) for taxation,
net all-in profit was £854,289 higher at
£7,383,295.
But it is an arbitrary figure, as indicated
by the large increase in the taxation
provision, which is over £2.3 million more
than the claimed profit. On shareholders’
funds the profit declared was equal to
10 p.c., compared with 10.8 p.c. in the
preceding term. On capital it was 20.5
p.c., compared with 23.4 p.c. The div.
was kept at 10 p.c.
The massive consolidated balance-sheet
figures give another striking view of the
business:
CONSOLIDATED FIGURES.
Shareholders’ Funds and Liabilities.
1955. 1956. 1957.
& £
Paid capital .. 26,698,190 28,337,586 35.955,467
General reserve .. 14,614,627 16,416,873 20,880,791
Share-premiums . 6,420,671 7,240,269 8,052,920
Mining plant and
development .. 2,600,000 1,700,000
Excess par-value
over cost of inter-
co. holdings .. 718,636 2,078,636 2,784,814
P. &1. balance .. 1,623,964 1,010,852 1,652,365
Outside holdings
in subsids. ... 2,496,536 2,593,064 2,740,691
Shareholders*
funds .. 62,572,524 60,277,280 73,667,048
Provision plant*
replacement .. 1,690,000 4,685,000 8,830,000
Overdrafts .... 1,862,275 2,743,776
Loan .. .; 6,102,822 6,102,822 6,502,822
Trade creditors .. 4,319,842 6,812,057 6,972,523
Sundry creditors,
accruals and tax
provision .. 19,508,696 23,314,706 30,778,867
Inter-co. suspense 487,112 2,293,121 5,472,694
86,543,271 105,228,762 132,223,954
Assets.
Freeholds, lease-
holds .. .. 1,731,381 1,619,139 1,920,910
Machinery, plant 49,910,638 64,967,267 81,052,526
Shares other cos.' 2,014,116 1,938,023 6,382,456
Stocks .. .. 21,503,971 24,775,399 29,583,358
Debtors .. 6,453,341 8,031,893 9,043,138
Govt, bonds .. 4,929,814 3,897,041 1,688,315
Trade-marks, patents 10
Cash .. .. —' 2,553,251
86,543,271 105,228,762 132,223,954
During a five-year plan initiated about
two years ago, it is expected to spend
£lOO million on expansion by 1960.
Already expenditure is running ahead of
schedule. In the past term the consoli-
dated book-value of plant (£Bl million)
increased £16.1 million after visibly
writing - off £7.8 million, making a
total apparent outlay during the year of
£23.9 million. In the preceding year the
corresponding figure was £21.8 million.
Of the £45.7 million spent in two years,
capital provided £9.3 million and share-
premiums £1.6 million, or together about
a quarter. The rest came from deprecia-
tion provisions, the already-mentioned
(large) provisions for plant-replacement,
substantial ploughed-back profits, little
or nothing in the way of fixed borrow-
ings, a lift of only £2.6 million in trade-
creditors, but an increase of £11.2 million
in an obscure item now almost as
big as paid capital—“sundry creditors
and accrued charges, including provision
for income-tax, etc., £30,778,867.” This
item is 4£ times the size of trade-creditors,
shown separately, and is equal to more
than all the taxation provisions for the
past seven years. It would appear to be
considerably in excess of any liabilities
it purports to provide for.
Although two years is rather a short
period over which to attempt to calculate
an average, it looks as though B.H.P.
may not ask shareholders for more than
£l5 million in new capital over the next
three years, provided capital-outlay in
that time does not exceed £6O million.
That would represent about a three-for-
seven par issue on the present capital.
This is purely a guess, of course, but
it is at least worked-out on the actual
experience of the past two years.
What happens after the five-year plan
is complete is another matter. If capital-
expenditure then tapers-off, higher
dividends to shareholders would certainly
seem warranted with all the new plant


contributing to profits. The decades of
low returns to shareholders might then
be well replaced by something more in
keeping with the earning-power of the
business.
If heavy capital-expenditure is still
required after 1960, div.-distribution is
likely to remain cramped, but with the
prospect of further capital-raising more
likely.
The sharemarket is prepared to wait for
its benefits, and at 565. 6d. the £1 shares
yield only £3 11s. per cent, on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. New capital arrangements may
be mentioned by the chairman at the
annual meeting on September 6.
Minster, Ltd.
Duplication of plant-capacity and
the three-for-four bonus-issue after
the close of last accounts coincided with
the pinch felt in the motor-trade follow-
ing the increase in sales-tax early in
1956 ; and in the figures of Minster,
Ltd., and its operating subsidiaries there
has been nothing like a duplication of
profits for the term to June 30 last.
But as the new plant probably was not
fully helpful for more than half of the
term, in all the circumstances the co.
did well to show a net trading and
investment profit of £248,911 for the
period, up £56,370 on that of the pre-
ceding period and equal to 23 p.c. on the
bonus-increased capital. The 15 p.c. div.
was therefore maintained with ease.
Before arriving at the net profit
£45,041 (up £11,648) was set aside for
depreciation and £167,840 (up £32,700)
for taxation. The record of this vigorous
Westminster-carpet enterprise since it
became a public co. is as follows: —■
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Rjs- Re-
June Profit. Dividend. serves, serves, t
30, £ £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £4BB .. .. 69,482
1953 .. 132,919 8J p.c.=81,583* 51,336 120,818
Preliminary expenses written - off,
£1796 119,022
To stock reserve, £7784 .. .. 111,233
Added intangibles, £10,739 .. .. 100,499
1954 .. 151,888 15 p.c.=79,922 71,966 172,465
Loss sale assets, £4559 .. .. 167,906
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 157,906
Unexplained reduction, £292 .. 157,614
1955 .. 189,044 15 p.c.=80,344 108,700 266,314
Revaluation subsid’y assets, £181,844.. 448,158
Profit sale fixed assets, £3OO .. 448,458
Tax underprovided, £707 .. .. 447,715
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 437,751
1956 .. 192,541 15 p.c.=92,155* 100,386 538,137
Net profit sale fixed assets, £33,521.. 571,658
Three-for-four bonus-issue, £462,512.. 109,146
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 99,146
Written-off intangibles, £9025 .. 90,121
1957 .. 248,911 15 p.c=161,880 87,031 177,152
* Includes dividend paid to former shareholders of
subsidiaries.
f Subject to intangibles, £5OOO at 30/6/’57.
Originally Westminster Carpets Pty.,
Ltd., the enterprise was put on a public-
co. basis in 1952, when the present
(Minster) holding-co. took-over. Chief
product is Westminster rubber-based car-
pet, made at a modern and efficient factory
at Dandenong (Vic.), and used extensively
in the motor-trade. But it has a widen-
ing household use, and only since the
duplication of the plant has supply got
near to demand. The carpet is not
woven, and labor-cost is relatively light.
It has not found the new tufted carpets
to be serious competitors.
Duplication of the plant in the expand-
ing industrial town of Dandenong (where
General Motors are now conveniently
adjacent), as well as other capital trans-
actions, have been largely financed from
earnings retained after payment of the
15 p.c. div. Whitehead Chemical Co.
(Aust.) Pty. is a next-door subsidiary
supplying the rubber-dispersions required.
Other subsidiaries are Rayon (A/asia)
Processing Co. (flock and flock-coated
paper and fabrics), Linatex (Aust.) Pty.
(corrosion- and abrasion-resistant rubber
products) and Sydney Cotton Mills, Ltd.,
the assets of which have been largely
disposed of.
Scrip to the face-value of £530,000
was exchanged for the capital of the
two original subsidiaries, a further 173,367
f.-p. 10s. shares were issued for subse-
quent acquisitions, and last year’s three-
for-four bonus-issue carried paid capital
up to £1,079,196:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £535,625 £616,684 £1,079,196
Reserves .. .. 266,314 538,137 177,152
Outside interests .. 548
Overdraft .. .. 12,275 99,474
Creditors .. .. 65,067 85,511 85,690
Staff fund.. .. 10,000 20,000 30,000
Tax provision .. 117,342 146,483 183,072
Final div... 40,172 46,251 80,940
£1,025,068 £1,465,341 £1,735,524
Freeholds .. .. . 277,480 398,466 445,967
Plant, etc... .. 325.940 499,483 563,668
Shares public co. 75,000
Stocks .. .. 225,878 375,816 473,618
Debtors .. ■.. 92,906 177.550 172,271
Cash, etc. .. 86,053
Intangibles .. 13,811 14,026 5,000
£1,025,068 £1,465,341 £1,735,524
The new item, “shares in company listed
on Stock Exchange, at cost, £75,000,”
would appear to be a holding of 150,000
f.-p. ss. shares in Davies; Coop and Co.
taken in at 10s. each. These shares were
received as part-consideration for the
assets, apart from the freeholds, of Sydney
Cotton Mills, Ltd., acquired by Minster in
the 1955-56 term.
After writing-off depreciation, net
addition to fixed assets during the term
was £111,686. An additional £97,802 of
stocks (£473,618) was carried; debtors
showed little change. Retained earnings
and provisions and £87,199 of additional
overdraft accommodation looked after the
net expansion on the assets side.
Visible reserves are slender at £177,152,
subject to £5OOO of intangibles. But, while
the co.’s muscles don’t obtrude, their
strength in the past has been obvious.
The present period of financial restriction
is likely to be one of consolidation rather
than expansion, but there still seems to be
a wide future ahead, and the Minster
management has shown itself to be right
on the ball.
At 21s. the 10s. shares yield 7.1 p.c. on
a 15 p.c. div. basis.
Kandos Cement Co., Ltd.
IT-ANDOS CEMENT, LTD., is a hold-
ing-company with its interests,
through Australian-Portland Cement Pty.,
Ltd., spread in N.S.W. and Victoria. It
controls the big operating co. (largest
cement-producer in Australia) with Aus-
tralian Cement, Ltd., of Melbourne, each
holding-co. owning a half-interest
of 2,000,000 £1 shares each).
Therefore Kandos can count on equal
participation in the profits earned at
Geelong as well as Kandos, and this
makes for stability from the investor’s
point of view. It is particularly useful at
the present time, when building-activity
in Victoria is at a high level, partly as a
result of the fillip given to industry there
by the paternalism of the Bolte Govern-
ment.
But in N.S.W., too, there has been brisk
activity in the construction industries,
chiefly—as in Victoria —in city building.
Activity in the cement industry, especially
in the two principal eastern States, is being
maintained at a high level, and during the
past year trading conditions have been
buoyant. Reporting on the industry in
April this year the Department of Trade
commented: “In N.S.W. sales have
increased appreciably, and demand is
expected to be maintained for the fore-
seeable future. Demand in Victoria con-
tinues to exceed local production, and
substantial quantities of cement are
obtained from N.S.W., S.A. and
Tasmania.”
However, the Geelong works of Aus-
tralian Portland Cement Pty. are being
enlarged to a capacity of 450,000 tons ot
cement p.a., “which will go a long way
towards meeting the demands of the Vic-
torian market for the time being.” Plant
on order for the Kandos works will be
in operation during the next 12 months,
raising capacity there to around 200,000
tons a year. During the year to February
28 last output of cement by all N.S.W.
producers was 854,000 tons, in an Aus-
tralian output totalling 2,138,000 tons.
For each ton of cement-producing
capacity when all the new plant is in full
swing there will be £4.3 of Kandos capital
(provided no new capital is issued mean-
time). It seems to be a strong position.
The board of Kandos Cement in its
latest report says that “the cement-works
at Kandos and Geelong have attained
record production during the year, but
supplies from the latter works have not
met Victorian requirements.” (All but a
small proportion of the Victorian produc-
tion comes from the A.P.C. plant at
Geelong.) But profit-earning of the
operating company is not disclosed,
though there is evidence over the years
that distributions to the two holding-cos.
have been modest in relation to earnings.
Last term net profit of Kandos Cement
was shown at £4955 higher, and covered
the 10 p.c. div. with £14,700 to spare:
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1950.. 70,098 10 p.c. = 67,386 2,712 529,545
1951.. 69,778 10 „ ~ 67,386 2,392 531,937
1952.. 76,276 10 „ „ 70,883 5,393 537.330
1953.. 83,020 10 „ ~74,859 8,161 545,491
From tax reserve, £7OOO .. .. 552,491
1954.. 83,328 10 p.c. = 74,874 8,454 560,945
1955.. 102,378 12$ „ ~ 93,592 8,786 569,731
Shares in Australian Portland Cement
Pty., Ltd., revalued, £660,000.. 1,229,731
Reserves capitalised, £655,144 .. 574,587
1956.. 150,133 10 p.c. =140,388 9,745 584,332
Special div., A.P.C., £90,000 . . 674,333
1957.. 155,088 10 p.c. =140,388 14,700 689,033
During the year also each holding-co.
received a £90,000 special div. from the
operating co. “out of its accumulated
profits,” and in each case the handout was
used to take-up £1 shares at par in the
operating co. During the year, again, a


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
(icorge Ellison Switch Gear,
cle. Makers of Classitters,
Water l-llters, Steam Valves,
in the
9
Future
The uncovering of new mineral - wealth in
Australia’s north has led to the drawing of a
parallel between this country and Canada.
The Canadians have certainly set a positive
example in supplying the world’s demand for base
metals in, acute shortage. As the recent discoveries
in our own northern areas have shown, it is an
example Australia could well follow.
For years Canada was regarded as a corridor
4000 miles long and not more than 400 miles wide
—in the same way as Australia now is inhabited
largely on the coastal fringe—or I usually refer to
it as the maritime band.
Where the Canadians have shone, particularly
in the last ten years, has been in their ability to
deepen development; to invest both capital and
energy in the realisation of every opportunity their
country offers them.
They went outside the “corridor,” making
exploratory thrusts that led to oil, iron, uranium and
other minerals in abundance in the outlands of
their north.
In doing so they tapped almost unbelievable
wealth, the benefits of which have been shed upon
every province of the Dominion. In a few years
Canada rose to a high rating among the rich and
respected countries of the world.
I saw it there so clearly on my last visit.
Industry has expanded in volume and productive
range. New agricultural methods and intensive
mechanisation have paid off in higher incomes from
farms. A bold policy of seeking, making and
extending trade agreements has opened new markets
for goods and services.
True, there are contrasts in the Canadian
picture—as, for instance, in their huge surplus
production of wheat. But their economy is broad
and varied —in the land, in the mines, the forests,
the fisheries. By their very performance they have
been able to attract foreign capital for the further
development of their resources and industries.
And pervading it all—the actual reason for it
all —is the Canadians’ dynamic drive: an example
of what a nation can do when its people have Faith
in their country, and in themselves.
bonus-issue of 660,000 £1
shares was made by A.P.C.
Pty., and the two operations
bad the effect of raising the
holdings of both proprietors to
two-million shares each.
In the previous term each
bolding-co. had revalued its
1,250,000 shares held by
£660,000 and a bonus-issue of
most of that amount was made
to its shareholding public. Last
year’s bonus-issue by the
operating-co. was not added to
reserves by Kandos, but used
to bring the par-value of the
holdings up to their book-value.
Since 1953, bonus-issues to
the public have made a 10 p.c.
div. worth almost twice as
much, and profits have risen
to meet the demand.
Balance-sheet figures tell
very little of the financial
strength that exists behind the
entire organisation:
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £1,403,880 £1,403,880
Reserves .. 584,332 689,032
Creditors and tax
provision .. 3,402 4,080
Final divs. .. 70,194 70,194'
£2,061,808 £2,167,186
Shares in Aust.
Portland Cement
Pty., Ltd. .. 1,910,000 2,000,000
Shares in Pipe
Linings (A/sia) 5,000 5,000
Due by subsid.. 9,000 9,000
Cash, bonds, etc. 137,808 153,186
£2,061,808 £2,167,186
Apart from the movements in
the holding in A.P.C., explained
above, there is little of
significance there. In the previ-
ous term the other subsidiary,
Pipe Linings (Australasia),
Ltd., made a profit, but did not
pay a dividend. Earnings were
ploughed-back to enable the
co. to line pipes of greater
diameter in the future. This
term it has paid an interim of
10 p.c. p.a.
Although they have an
identical holding in the same
industry, and their own issued
capitals are almost equal, the
sharemarket continues to offer
a higher price (495.) for Aus-
tralian Cement shares than it
does for those of Kandos
Cement. If anything, Kandos
shares seem to have a slight
edge on those of the Victorian-
registered concern, and they
are on offer at 445. 6d., to yield
4.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Howards, Ltd.
npHIS co. has been in the
A motor-agency business in
Queensland for almost as long
as there have been cars on that
State’s roads. Originally the
big money-spinner was the
General Motors’ franchise
(Cadillac, Buick and Chevrolet
cars). In 1930, when that
arrangement was terminated,
the co. took over the distri-
bution of Morris products for
the whole of Queensland and
the Northern Rivers of N.S.W.,
and, a few years back, it got
hold of the franchise for
Wolseley, Riley and M.G. cars
and Nuffield Universal
Tractors.
Queensland rights are also
held for Westinghouse refri-
gerators and other appliances,
and the co. still handles one
American car, the Studebaker,
but in the continuing lack of
dollar currency it has been the
British cars which have pro-
vided most of the grist for the
Howards mill.
If the wheels did grind more
slowly last year, profit was still
a robust 41.4 p.c. on paid
capital, so the 20 p.c. dividend
(the rate paid for the last eight
years now) was in no danger.
With £915,418 of visible
reserves backing the £208,533
capital as an added enhance-
ment, the sharemarket has put
a price of 82s. on the £1 ords.,
to get an immediate return of
4.8 p.c. on the 20 p.c. div.
The drop in sales last term
(down £500,000 to £3,500,000)
appears to have been felt over
all departments of the business,
more particularly, however, in
vehicle turnovers. Surprisingly,
gross profit (£706,630) was up
£62,891, but all of that gain,
and more, was swallowed by
increased expenses (£563,074,
up £94,057). Tax-provision,
£12,528 . lighter at £57,172,
shortened the drop in net
earnings (£86,384) to £18,638: —
Net Re-
June, Profit. < —Dividends serves.
£ £ £
1951. .150,407 20 p.c. = 41,707 513,139
To staff fund, £25,000 .. 488,139
1952. .102,479 20 p.c. = 41,706 548,912
1953.. 99,461 20 „ ~41,706 606,667
1954.. 129,338 20 „ ~41,70.6 694,299
Assets revalued, £14,700 .. 708,999
1955.-140,134 20 p.c. =41,707 807,426
1956.. 105,022 20 „ ~ 41,707 870,741
1957.. 86,384 20 „ ~41,707 915,418
The 41.4 p.c. which the £86,384


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
C.l. Australian and Overseas Patent!
and Trade Marks.— Advt.
Invest in a well-established
MANUFACTURING COMPANY
FERRIS INDUSTRIES
LIMITED (Paid-up Capital £235,000)
MAIN TRADING SUBSIDIARY
FERRIS BROS. PTY. LTD.
will be pleased to accept
Short Term Deposits
8*
7%
6%
per annum for mm YEARS
per annum for | Y E A R
1
per annum for 6 M T H S
INTEREST PAYABLE i YEARLY
Additional working capital
is required to finance the
manufacture of Ferris Tele-
vision Receivers, Ferris Car
Radios, Channel Master
Television Aerials, acces-
sories and component parts.
For further details and form of application
’phone, write or send coupon
To Secretary, FERRIS INDUSTRIES Ltd.,
752 Pittwater Rd., Brookvale, XW 0221.
Please send me details of Short Term Deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
8.49
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
represented on capital compares
with 50.4 p.c. in 1956 and 67.2,
62.7, 47.7, 49.1 and 72.1 p.c.
back to 1951.
Over the first six months of
1957 vehicle-sales in Queens-
land have showed signs of
picking-up, and Howards hold
hopes that the car which British
Motor Corp. has been working
on in its Australian factories
will help to equip it for the
increasingly stiff competition
that can be expected ahead.
Since it brought out its new
Morris-car models, B.M.C.
already seems to have regained
some of the ground lost to other
manufacturers last year.
All new-car stocks were
transferred to a wholesale co.
during the term, and this
° ft,-
accounts for most OI tne
important changes in the
balance-sheet:
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £208,533 £208,533
Reserves .. 870,740 915,418
Creditors .. 178,262 170,396
Unearned interest 23,222 17,381
Staff funds .. 25,000 25,000
Tax provision .. 145,835 131,865
Final divs. .. 41,707 41,707
£1,493,299 £1,510,300
Freehold .. 238,448 242,159
Plant, etc. .. 22,188 33,866
Stocks .. .. 703,869 364,260
Debtors, shares, etc. 466,398 662,827
Cash, etc. .. 62,396 207,188
£1,493,299 £1,510,300
Stocks were down £339,609,
book-debts were up £196,429
and there was £144,792 more
cash in the stocking.
Howards’ shareholders’
equity in the business at June
30 amounted to very nearly
three-quarters of all the co.’s
assets. In terms of net tangible
assets per share (on conserva-
tive book-values) it amounted
to £5 7s. lOd.
Coffs Harbour Rutile, N.L.
f OFFS HARBOUR
RUTILE, N.L., made its
second shipment for the month
of August—223 tons of rutile,
per the Pioneer Jem for the
U.S.A.
During the 13-month period
to June 30 the co. made an
operating loss of £7491, after
charging £4564 to Prospecting
Account. There is an accumu-
lated p. and 1. debit of £7491,
and £10,058 of formation exes.
There is also £95,490 in Plants-
construction and Mining
Account, apart from plant
(£5390) and mining properties
(£30,542).
Production of rutile recently
commenced. A mineral-dressing
plant, capacity in excess of
100 tons a week, has been
erected at Coffs Harbor. Other
mining equipment is capable of
keeping the feed up to the
treatment-plant. The co., says
the board, “has been success-
ful in selling forward the bulk
of its production of rutile for
the following three years at
satisfactory prices, which, it is
anticipated, will result in a
substantial profit.”
The co. was registered on
April 9, 1956, but deferred its
public issue of shares until
November 27, 1956. Paid
capital is £190,575 in 1,270,500
ss. shares paid to 3s! each. The
co. has got promptly to work,
and reports that its properties
are opening-up in excess of
expectations.
Cash and semi - liquids
totalled £39,667 at June 30.
This is fairly close to pros-
pectus estimates.
The 35.-paid contribs. are at
2s. in the market.
N.E. Antimony
7VTEW ENGLAND ANTI-
MONY MINES, N.L.
(N.S.W.), reports that two
inches of rain has fallen at the
mine (near Guyra), and
arrangements are in hand for
a resumption of full-scale
operations on September 9.
During the shut-down period
(since May 24), development
work, including the commence-
ment of a new adit, has dis-
closed the possibility of further
ore reserves above the No. 1
level, the full extent of which
is as yet unknown.
Because of lack of water and
other problems, the co. made
a loss of £6889 during the year
to March 31 last. A 450,000-
gallon dam has been con-
structed in order to stabilise the
water-supply (and earnings).
Much will also depend on
the development of new ore
reserves. For some time these
seem to have been mined on a
hand-to-mouth basis.
Wool Opens Weaker
/"OPENING wool auctions on
August 26 in Brisbane,
Melbourne and Perth showed
some uncertainty in the trend
of values. Winchcombe,
Carson reports that competi-
tion was restricted to some
extent, with the Continent
chief buyer. Bradford appeared
to be holding-off until the
market became stabilised, while
the Japanese purchases weren’t
very large. Values were
irregular in Brisbane, with the
short and prematurely shorn
wools very firm, average
descriptions from par to 2£ p.c.
lower, and best wools 2\ p.c. to
5 p.c. lower than June closing
rates in Brisbane.
In Melbourne and Perth
better-style wools of good
length were firm, while shorter
stapled wools sold in sellers’
favor. Wools in all centres
were mainly Merinos, the small
offering of comebacks and
crossbreds not being sufficient
to give any indication of
possible values for these types.


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. X, FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
How to make the
most of your time
The most valuable thing you
can spend is time! Yet how
often in today’s hustle and
bustle do you let time spend
you physically and emotion-
ally?
September Reader’s Digest
gives you four vital rules to
help you budget your timo
more successfully.
It’s one of a host of stimu-
lating and informative articles
in this month’s Reader’s Digest.
Others include, Secrets of the
sun, Three days of silence that
saved a life and How human are
animals. Also there’s a dramatic
condensation of the inspiring
book A Man Against Insanity.
Enjoy September Reader’s
Digest, on sale now at all
newsagents and bookstalls
only 2/-.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
.CjOME of N.Z.’s dairy-
farmers seem to be living
in a blissful dreamland. They
should wake-up and realise that
there is no fairy-godmother.
They can’t hope, over any con-
siderable period, to get more
for their produce than it brings
on export markets.
That simple fact should be
obvious. It is no use talking
about costs of production. A
guaranteed-price scheme can’t
maintain pay-outs at above-
average market - realisations.
The best it can do is to smooth
out variations in export prices.
Highly industrialised coun-
tries may find it possible and
desirable to subsidise their farm
production; for a country
such as N.Z., which lives by
selling farm produce, to
attempt to do so would be
fantastic.
A good many farmers recog-
nise this. They accept the
fact that, export prices having
fallen steeply, their reward
must fall, too.
Others appear disinclined to
face reality. They have been
critical of even the modest
reduction made in the guaran-
teed price for the current
season. They want their reward
maintained, come what may,
and there is &. strong suspi-
cion that, when the industry’s
reserves are exhausted, they
will be looking to the general
taxpayer for aid. It should be
made plain now that they won’t
get it.
Guaranteed Prices
The guaranteed-price scheme,
amended by recent legislation,
is extraordinarily complex.
Basic guaranteed prices are
calculated as payments to
dairy companies for manufac-
tured butter and cheese. For
the 1957-58 season they have
been fixed by the Dairy
Products Prices Authority as
follows: Butter, 33.1491 d. a
pound (.9864d. down); cheese,
18.5335 d. a ' pound (.7338d.
down).
These prices will, it is esti-
mated, enable efficient dairy
companies to pay farmer-
suppliers the following prices:
Butterfat for butter, 36.25 d.
a pound (1.298 d. down);
butterfat for cheese, 39.25 d. a
pound (1.298 d. down).
The Prices Authority didn’t
have a free hand. It was
required by law to fix a price
not more than five per cent,
below a figure representing
basic cost of production of
butter for the season, as
determined earlier by the
Minister of Agriculture and
the Dairy Board. This figure,
which includes the farmers’
labor reward and is probably
a pretty generous estimate of
true costs, was 34.7918 d. a
pound. The Prices Authority
fixed the guaranteed price 4.7
per cent, below it.
The basic cost of production
of butterfat for the season—
that is, farm costs without the
addition of manufacturing
costs —was declared to be
38.25 d. a pound. The farmer
will receive about 2d. a pound
less than this.
In brief, the farmer’s return
from butterfat for butter will
be 3.5 per cent, less than last
year and 5.2 per cent, below his
declared cost of production.
The World Market
In view of the current state
of the export market the reduc-
tion seems little enough.
In order to cover the new
guaranteed price, butter would
need to sell at 3435. a hundred-
weight in London and cheese
at 208 s. a cwt. These are con-
siderably more than current
prices—310 s. a cwt. for butter
and 181 s. a cwt. for cheese.
In the year to June 30
average monthly realisations in
London were: Butter, highest
3175., lowest 2545.; cheese,
highest 2975., lowest 1925.
At times last season butter
was selling in London at as
much as £lOO a ton below the
guaranteed - price equivalent,
and the current price in
London is at least £3O a ton
below the new guaranteed-
price equivalent.
It is expected that, when all
last season’s butter and cheese
has been sold, total realisations
will be about £lO million less
than the. guaranteed-price pay-
out, and dairy-industry reserves,
which stood at £28.6 million in
1956, will be reduced by this
amount.
The current season appears
certain to result in another
heavy loss. According to one
estimate, if the amount of
butter and cheese exported
were the same as last year and
if prices remained at their
present level, the dairy industry
would sustain a loss of £7
million.
The chairman of the N.Z.
Co-operative Dairy Co., Ltd.,
said recently that, “if losses
continued at the present stagger-
ing rate for another 18 months
the reservoir of farmers’ hard-
won savings would run dry.”
The president of the Federa-
tion of Labor, Mr. F. P. Walsh,
fears that, on present trends, the
dairy-industry reserve account
will have been emptied by
1959 and that taxpayers
generally will then be called
upon to subsidise dairyfarmers
to keep their incomes at arti-
ficially high levels.
Mr. Walsh is himself a big
dairyfarmer, and on this subject
he deserves to be listened to
carefully.
It is generally believed that
the dairyfarmer has been on
velvet for years, and that he
should be prepared to take the
rough with the smooth. One
case was recently reported of a
farmer who. paid a sharemilker
£l2OO a year, while he himself
drew between £2OOO and £2500
a year out of the farm for
doing nothing!
Any attempt to subsidise the
dairyfarmer’s income at the
expense of the general taxpayer
is certain to arouse strong
opposition, and could even
bring about the downfall of
the Government. There are
still many bitter memories of
the favored treatment which the
farming community received
from a Conservative Govern-
ment in the depression of the
’thirties.
The situation was succinctly
summed up by a recent visitor
to N.Z., who is closely asso-
ciated with the dairy industry.
He said that either dairyfarmers
would have to become more
efficient, or they would have to
be satisfied with smaller profits
or they would have to change
to other forms of production.
Pulp and Paper
Tasman Pulp and Paper
shares, which were selling at a
peak of 30s. (N.Z.) about 18
months ago, recently touched
their lowest point since issue,
19s. 6d. Some interesting
figures, probably authoritative
(as they came from the member
for Bay of Plenty, in which
district the company operates),
were quoted in Parliament.
The Kawerau plant, he
said, had a planned productive
capacity of 75,000 tons of
newsprint. In its first year it
produced 34 p.c. of capacity,
and this year was expected to
produce 80 p.c. Planned wood-
pulp capacity was 36,800 tons.
In the first year 22,000 tons
was manufactured, and the
estimate for this year was 83
p.c. of capacity. Capacity-
production of sawn timber was
72 million board-feet, and
this year’s estimated produc-
tion was 61 p.c. of that figure.
The success of the combined
Kawerau enterprise largely
depended on the Australian
market’s absorption of sawn
timber, he said. A £6O-million to
£7O-million industry within the
life of the present generation
was possible, but it would
depend on the expansion of
overseas markets.
Whakatane Board Mills
shares moved up sharply to
235. 9d. on publication of the
year’s results showing a strong
net profit recovery from
£40,000 to £132,000. Dividend
was restored from 5 to 6 per
cent.
For a true appreciation of
the company’s earnings it is
necessary to look at results for
three years, as follows:^—
Profit Tax Deprecia-
tion
£ £ £
1955 113,942 111,801 76,649
1956 40,376 30,185 202,130
1957 131,970 126,677 217,912
Net profit was more than
three times that of 1956 in spite
of heavy and increased depreci-
ation provision, which, inci-
dentally, included £82,691
special depreciation. It will
obviously be easier to earn
increased net profits as special
depreciation provisions
diminish. The directors said
that the year’s results indicated
progress made in overcoming
difficulties associated with the
running-in of the company’s
second cardboard machine. Tho
6 p.c. dividend on ordinary
and pref. shares takes about
£96,000 of the net profit.


The "Baltic
of the
Bible
By CECIL MANN
THE things, they are doing
to the good Book!
What are they not
doing?
Excavators, translators,
commentators, and then their
correcters . . . having a whale
of a time . . . making a lot of
dough out of it,, too, some of
them . . . forward into battle
with their banners and their
shirts out . . . bombarding the
Book and one another with
flying-saucers of antique
sherds and stones, disintegrat-
ing fragments of papyrus and
inscribed pieces of ancient
pillars and pottery found in
caves and holes and excitedly
brought out into the desert air.
Obviously dangerous country
to venture into, even for well-
armed experts, let alone an
unarmed gentle reader . . .
especially in the New Testa-
ment territory of the battlefield:
the Old would now seem
comparatively safe, as indeed
That was in 1836: the real
Battle of the Bible is of much
more recent date, and some of
its results would have aston-
ished even Borrow, including
perhaps the extent to which the
relegation of the Old Testament
to an almost secular and
hence comparatively vulnerable
—status has been further
carried. And having long
since passed the point where
they could go for the Old Testa-
ment with a bazooka and be
hardly noticed, they have now
moved in on the New. Having
proved, and in turn disproved,
that the Old is even more
generally “entertaining” than
Borrow thought, because in the
light of the dug-out we can
now read it as “reliable history”
(as lively as 1066 and All That
and as informative as Gibbon),
they would show by the same
light that Christ was born b.c.,
that Christianity flourished
Inscribed on Hezekiah’s aqueduct, and translated: “The boring
through is completed. And this is the story of the boring: while
yet ...” (Illustrations on these pages are from Werner Keller’s
“The Bible as History”)
it was on the way to becoming
before the excavators and other
searchers and their typewriter
confederates went into action,
George Borrow, setting out to
peddle the Book as public
property in Spain, suggested in
one of his letters to the Bible
Society that
....in these countries, until the
inhabitants become Christians, it
would be expedient to drop the Old
Testament altogether, for if the Old
accompany the New the latter will
be little read, as the former is so
infinitely more entertaining to the
carnal man.
Seeking permission from the
Spanish Prime Minister, he was
inferentially given a political
comparison of the New and the
Old rather different from his
own simple literary one:
I then requested permission to
print the New Testament in
Spanish at Madrid.' He said he
should not grant it, for that the
New Testament was a very danger-
ous book, especially in disturbed
times.
long before its Founder, and
much else just as explosive, if
not more so.
This New Testament
territory of the battlefield,
though, they still find a little
risky, as some of the warriors
have discovered. Here—as, for
instance, Edmund Wilson, the
author of The Scrolls from the
Dead Sea, has had reason to
know —you walk at your peril,
a loose word or even a smile
can be your passport to Val-
halla, and any bush may turn
out to be a camouflaged
Christian, waiting for you
with a couple of bricks, the
second one in the hope that
you will turn the other cheek.
And perhaps it could be an
over-rash turning J of the first
cheek to make passing mention
here of what may be thought
a local retaliatory echo to the
“Development of our alphabet .”
distant skirmishing in this
Sydney suburb an echo
remote enough from the
dust and heat of the
battle, but at close hand a
mighty loud echo nonetheless.
Here —presumably from a
church —on quiet Sunday even-
ings . . . the quieter, the louder
. . . they broadcast a gar-
gantuanly amplified rendering
of the Lord’s Prayer; not
spoken, not prayed, but sung
. . . loud, measured, deafening.
Certainly, considered as an
echo, it must be rated a
resounding success ; and it may
even have its charm for some ;
at all events the pooch on the
hearth sleeps through it undis-
turbed and the budgerigar
folds up his eyes and nods.
And then, perhaps, associ-
ations may make you turn
to noble old Tyndale (the
superb Cambridge Univer-
sity Press reprint of his New
Testament), and read in the
chapter of Matthew where the
Prayer is given:
And when ye praye, bable not
moclie, as the hethen do: for they
thincke that they shalbe herde, for
their nioche bablynges sake.
And you must go on, of
course, from that to read his
rendering of the Prayer itself,
and find that the makers of the
Book of Common Prayer leapt
over the King James Version to
old Tyndale (of 1534) for their
own rendering, and that theirs
is the one that has been
thundering through your valley.
Just where, in these and
the many later translations,
accuracy ends and readable-
Corn silos.
ness or piety takes over
is beyond the knowledge
of the present reader, who
claims no expertness or
authority in the matter what-
ever. But where there are such
vast differences there must be
some huge errors, and indeed
one of the dusty warriors in
this New Testament territory—
Hugh J. Schonfield: The
Authentic New Testament:
Dennis Dobson, Ltd.— has the
grand courage to take on all
comers and (in his very read-
able translation) correct the
lot of them.
On the basis (not new, of
course, though new in his use
of it) that
A number of valuable documents
have fortunately been preserved to
11s from the first hundred years of
the Movement’s [Christianity’*]
existence, histories, letters, treatises
and tracts, which in a selected and
collected form are known as the
New Testament or New Covenant
he asserts that
The records in the original simply
do not read as they are reproduced
to serve the spiritual needs of the
Christian Faith. There is a diver-
sity of style, often an absence of
literary grace, infelicity of phras-
ing, much use of colloquialisms.
There is a passionate fervor as
well as gentleness and moderation,
bluntness and crudity, sarcasm as
well as courtesy, both beauty and
ugliness.... What we have been
accustomed to reading is a largely
idealised interpretation created by
the various schools of Christian
faith and piety.
This, it should be said,
though it has no doubt been
inferred, is a Jewish Nimrod
entering into the fray: they
are still mighty hunters before
the Lord ; and this one in his
translating is calm, dignified,
arresting demonstrating, as
many latter-day translators of
all sorts sadly fail to do, that
the best clear, simple English
of today can still be richly
majestic and readily sufficient
for any purpose. Whatever the
experts may make of him, there
could hardly be a more dig-
nified and readable text from
a purely literary point of view,
nor, apparently, a more
thoroughly complete one.
He, by the way, singles Mark
out (mainly on the grounds of
antiquity) as a most impressive
and valuable witness, “though
the end of Mark is defective


~. .because it was the ends of
the scrolls that suffered first,”
as with the recent Dead Sea
scrolls. In his Matthew the
warning against standing and
praying “in the synagogues and
at street corners,” but instead
“when you pray, enter your
inner compartment and close
the door,” has (with the Echo
still in your ears) a special
emphasis in his strong prose,
which can also provide this
beautiful quiet version of the
Prayer to be thus prayed:
Our Heavenly Father, may thy
name he sanetifled, thy Kingdom
established, thy will obeyed on
earth as it is in Heaven. Give us
today our needful food, and for-
give us our failings, as we too for-
give those who have failed us. And
do not put temptation in our way,
but shield us from harm.
Of course, like practically
all these warriors in the current
Battle of the Bible, the com-
piler of The Authentic New
Testament in places throws his
quota of explosives about
regardless, but, like the battlers
over the Dead Sea scrolls
especially, he does his bit
towards investing the Book with
a fresh, and it could be an
invigorating, excitement.
The same may be said, too,
for one of the battlers with
no claim to prose quality above
light journalism, and no dignity
of any kind that you would
notice, but for all that a very
entertaining battler in his way
•—Werner Keller, the German
author of The Bible as History
(Hodder and Stoughton), trans-
lated by William Neil, and a
joy to leaf through for its
illustrations and its breezy
accounts of the major dis-
coveries and their deciphering.
A subtitle proclaims that
“Archaeology confirms the Book
of Books,” and Keller indus-
triously hurls grenade after
grenade of examples in support.
A few gleanings:
Manna is the product of a
plant-louse ; if you’d like some
for breakfast it’s on the list
of exports from the Sinai
Peninsula; apply to Tamarix
Mannifera, registered in every
botanical index of the Middle
East. “Manna is indeed an
exportable commodity, and, if
it is carefully preserved, forms
an ideal ‘iron ration,’ since it
keeps indefinitely.”
About that cluster of grapes
which needed a couple of men
to carry it back on a pole
from Canaan: fine heavy
bunches of from 10- 121 b. are
still even today no rarity in the
country of the Brook of
Eshcol, which means Valley of
Grapes; the inference being
that, if they can still grow
them that size, it wasn’t a whole
vine but actually one beautiful
bunch which the scouting boys
brought back to the astounded
and hungry wanderers.
“If,” also says Keller, “there
had been patent laws 4000
years ago, the Egyptians could
have claimed exclusive rights
over granaries. • The silos on
Canadian and American [and
our own?] wheatfarms are still
built on the same principle.”
“The Mitanni [forerunners of
whom?] were completely
devoted to their horses, they
were ‘horse-daft.’ They held
the first Derbys in the world
along the banks of their great
rivers. Advice on the breeding
and care of stud animals, direc-
tions for the training of
cavalry horses, instructions on
breaking-in young horses,
regulations for feeding and
training in racing stables fill
veritable libraries of clay
tablets.”
Major C. S. Jarvis (British
Governor of Sinai in the
’thirties): “Moses striking the
rock at the water
gushing out sounds like a
genuine miracle, but the writer
has actually seen this happen.”
Simply, striking the face of
such rocks breaks through a
crust behind which is water.
Many of the handsome mugs
in the finds of Philistine (!)
Philistine jar.
pottery “are fitted with a filter,
and there can be no doubt
about what it was used for.
They are typical beer mugs.”
Guided by the Biblical
information that the first tree
which Abraham planted jn the
soil of Beersheba was a
tamarisk, the Israeli forestry
experts have planted 2,000,000
tamarisks in that area.
And one more, a rather
pretty one, from the Keller
haversack: “The ‘camels'
belonging to her [Rebecca’s]
future father-in-law Abraham
which she watered at the
well were donkeys.” . . .
All very pleasant and
easy and enjoyable skirm-
ishing: a niche in Val-
halla for Pte. Keller —a
happy warrior, as the
author of any bestseller
has some reason to be.
Whether or not such
bestseller signposts
(Keller’s isn’t the only
one), and altogether the
the general current
interest in the Battle of
the Bible, may at all
significantly spring from
the circumstance that,
as in Borrow’s Spain,
these are “disturbed
times,” with perhaps the
fallout of hydrogen-
bombs weighing some-
what in the balance, or
whether the interest in
the Dead Sea scrolls and the
rest may be thought to come
merely from what Borrow
could have called the “carnal”
fascination of buried treasure,
there is no doubt that the
interest is there when so many
books continue to be tossed
back from or round about the
battlefield, with some of them,
like Edmund Wilson’s, making
whodunits look poor relations
in the sales-departments.
Wilson’s The Scrolls from
the Dead Sea is now a Collins’s
Fontana Books paperback
(from Angus and Robertson),
and is going strong in that
form, too.
As most would know by
now, Wilson got in early (in
1955) with his account of the
finding of the scrolls through
a chance pebble tossed into a
cave by a Bedouin boy in 1947,
the subsequent almost cloak-
and-dagger manoeuvring by
interested parties, and, eventu-
ally translated and recon-
structed, the scrolls’ record (or
at any rate Wilson’s interpreta-
tion of the scrolls’ record) of
the rather Christianlike
brotherhood that existed, some-
what before Christian times, in
the monasteries of the
Essenes. Wilson being a very
good storyteller, his narrative,
at least, is as brisk and bright as
anything that has come from
the field; and then, also, he
“It was in a Palestinian tomb of
this sort, with a millstone rolled
across the entrance, that Christ was
buried."
Jias his pack full of deductions
and conclusions which at least-
make a noise like grenades;
e.g.:
It seems obvious that the mon-
astic tradition of the Christians
must ultimately have derived from
the Essenes, and there has always
been a theory that Jesus was
originally an Essene.
Wilson’s book (the core of
it is this “Essene theory”) has
by now been so generally
thumbed-over —in search for
what? —and good soldier
Wilson himself has been so
thumped-over for it, that his
lively story must be familiar to
just about everybody, and be
even, for many, itself a kind of
gospel. “But,” says Theodor
H. Gaster, the latest reinforce-
ment to barge on to the battle-
field, “Wilson’s deductions con-
cerning the bearing of the
Scrolls on Christianity have
been seriously challenged by
specialists.”
Apart from the very
important fact that, instead of
the voluminous writing about
the scrolls which we have had
up to now, Gaster gives, in
superb translation, wha t|
{Continued on page 57)
“Bricklaying with foreign labor in Egypt.”


Ansett’s Acquire An Aerodrome
By B.J.L.
WHEN it took over
Hayman Island
Ansett’s spent many
thous a ad s in an
endeavor to capture a lush
tourist-trade from overseas.
Things didn’t quite work out
that way, and it began to be
whispered about the Whit-
sundays that Hayman was
Ansett’s “only mistake.”
But Ansett’s quickly re-
adjusted their plans and set out
to cultivate the custom of the
ordinary Australian, with an
amended scale of fees and
entertainment. From that day
Ansett’s and Hayman Island
both prospered. To the nearest
aerodrome on the mainland
Ansett planes roared in and
out in ever-increasing numbers,
with a road-clipper making
short work of the 20-odd miles
to the little seaport of Cannon-
vale, where the luxury launches
waited.
Air-services had to expand,
and then arose the question of
modernising the ’drome, to
receive Convairs. But how
was it to be done? Undoubtedly
it was an airfield with a future.
It was also an airfield with a
past.
The scheme to build an
aerodrome at the sugar-town
of Proserpine was launched
about eight years ago. It was
a project long spoken of, but
when the local council moved
in the matter it met with a
mixed reception. Roads in the
shire were being reconstructed
slowly after years of neglect
during the war. Rivers and
creeks interrupted traffic for
months, as adequate bridges
were few and far between.
“Roads first!” was the cry.
“Roads and bridges for the
many. Not ’dromes for the
favored few.”
The fact that roads would be
built irrespective of whether
the airfield eventuated or not
was ignored or denied. The
obvious outcome of a ’drome—
greater traffic-flow; better
roads for the locals —was flatly
contradicted. In fact, it was a
project of contradictions.
Among the objectors were
many known Communist sym-
pathisers. The “Roads-first”
slogan was popular with these
people. At one of the great
creeks in the locality one chap
harangued a crowd of motorists
waiting by the flooded cause-
way. “Now,” he cried, point-
ing to the expanse of water
before them, “what would you
rather have, a ’drome or a
bridge? Take your choice.”
Actually there was no need
for a choice. That particular
bridge was already being
planned at the time, and has
long been completed. A busi-
nessman wrote to the local
paper urging the establishment
of a strip, and to the credit
side he mentioned its possible
future as a defence-link. In
came the Corfirades with a
whoop:
“See? . , . Warmongering!
Planning an airfield for another
blood-bath. This must read
well to the sorrowing war-
widows and orphans of Proser-
pine. The ’drome must be
stopped.”
Some of the town’s adamant
anti - Communist folk allied
themselves with the down-with-
the-’drome movement, on the
ground of needless expense
benefiting a few. The usual
notice regarding the council’s
intention to borrow for the
specific purpose of the ’drome
appeared in the Proserpine
paper. With the customary
thoroughness a petition of
protest, to demand a poll, was
immediately organised. An
imposing list of signatures was
collected, and it looked as if
“You play golf today over my dead body!”
the project would have to
survive a district vote. But the
energetic organisers overlooked
one thing. There is always
a time-limit to presentation of
these petitions. The protest
was handed in one day late.
And, with the backing of over
40 guarantors, the venture
began.
Proserpine is situated on a
slight contour in the middle of
a plain, with ranges to the
east, north and west. A river
and several creeks run down
from the ranges on the western
and northern sides, and flood-
waters swirl over most of the
plain in the “wet.” There is a
break in the ranges to the south,
and eight miles in that direction
is an ironstone area that proved
ideal for a ’drome. It was
almost an all-weather strip
without bitumen.
After a year’s labor the
’drome was opened on Novem-
ber 3, 1951, by C. W. Davidson
(now P.M.G.). T.A.A. began
dropping-in twice a day, and
Ansett’s entered the picture.
The number of landings
thought necessary before Civil
Aviation would take over was
reached and passed, but still the
local authorities had to main-
tain the airfield.
Air-traffic was booming.
Several ’dromes were rapidly
reaching Civil Aviation figures,
and it could be that the depart-
ment became appalled at the
prospect of the expenditure
necessary to take over these
landing-grounds. The remedy
was simple. According to the
council, Civil Aviation
enlarged the conditions
demanded before it would
assume responsibility for any
aerodrome. As one councillor
remarked, “Government depart-
ments can do these things.”
The shire council was losing
money steadily on the proposi-
tion. “We told you so!” came
a triumphant chorus, and,
“Anyway, what about the
guarantors?” One year these
were called upon, but only
about a third honored their
pledge. Ansett’s was one of
those that paid. The council
did not force the hands of
the defaulters.
A public meeting was called
to demand the abandonment of
the ’drome. The anti-airstrip
organising was good, but not
quite good enough ; and once
more the airfield survived by
a narrow margin.
But the project was wobbling.
It struggled on for another year
or two, gnawing away at local
finances, until the council
decided that the strip would
have to be bitumined, at an
estimated cost of £16,000.
Ansett’s offered a loan of
£4OOO towards this amount, but,
as the annual loss on the
’drome was already nearly
£9OO, repayments would be a
problem. Ansett’s therefore
agreed to increased landing-
fees. An approach was made
to T.A.A. for finance, but was
met with a refusal and also an
objection to the proposed
increase in fees.
The final and almost fatal
blow to the improvements fell
when a revised estimate, follow-
ing soil-samples and surveys,
rocketed the cost beyond
£27,000. The council juggled
desperately with its finances,
but still fell £11,250 short of
the target. Then came Ansett’s
next offer: an additional £5625
if they were given exclusive
rights to the ’drome. They
would also build a modern
passenger-terminal. As T.A.A.
had refused to assist, Ansett’s
felt justified in asking for the
exclusive rights, and would
forgo plans to build a strip
on Hayman Island itself.
(Continued on page 57)


■ / ;
✓ s
‘kS'M
| \ -.fv : *. 5 - §
< *'v
A.M.P
news for private company directors
A new plan for key men has
recently been introduced
by the A.M.P. Society
This plan has remarkable advantages in
helping you solve your INCOME TAX and
DEATH DUTY problems.
Contact your A.M.P. Representative, or
a telephone call to the nearest A.M.P*
office will bring you full information.
Ring: Sydney—B 0530 Melbourne—Mß 1781
Brisbane —FA 1981 Adelaide—LA 2372
Perth—BA 2001 Hobart—B 7621
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY • GENERAL MANAGER: M. C. BUTTFIELD


SNOWY WATERS—
Two Premiers Rejoice
... and one doesn’t
\\/HEN the Premiers of N. S. Wales and
’ * Victoria jointly pulled a lever
last week 1700 ft. down in the granite of
the Snowy Mountains, they set off an
explosion which broke-through the last
few feet of rock separating the two
tunnelling-teams which had been work-
ing towards each other for 2\ years to
excavate the Eucumbene-Tumut tunnel,
a major project of the Snowy Mountains
scheme.
The two Premiers had entered the tunnel
by electric lift down the 247 ft. Junction
Shaft, and had been conveyed five miles
along the floor to the firing-point. After
the explosion they went a further 500yds.
through the dust and clambered
up on to the mullock-heap at the break-
through point to clasp each other’s fist
in a symbolic handshake.
The tunnel, 14 miles long, is designed
to divert the waters of the Eucumbene
River, a tributary of the Snowy River,
into the Upper Tumut, a tributary of the
Murrumbidgee. This is part of the overall
scheme for persuading the snow-fed
streams of the eastern side of the Great
Dividing Range, which normally waste
themselves by careering uselessly to the
sea, to adapt themselves to useful work in
supplying electricity to the south-eastern
corner of Australia and irrigation-water
for the thirsty western slopes. The work of
lining the tunnel with concrete has now
begun; the schedule calls for the com-
pletion of the Eucumbene Portal gate
early next year. If things go according
to plan, by the time the tunnel is com-
pletely lined there will be enough water
in the Adaminaby Reservoir to begin the
first westerly diversion of water from the
Eucumbene to the turbines of the Tl,
underground power-station and thence to
the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area.
Cahill and Boite
Adaminaby Reservoir, the gates of
which were closed by Sir Arthur Fadden
at the end of June, will, when full, stretch
along 30 miles of valley, with the greatest
width of 10 miles. It will hold eight times
as much water as Sydney Harbor.
Already, only two months after the closing
of the gates, it is a sizeable lake, with
water extending back 1\ miles from the
dam-wall. T 1 power-station will have a
capacity of 160,000 kw. in its first year
and ultimately 320,000 kw. Irrigation-
water supplied through the tunnel will
amount to 300,000 acre-feet a year.
Bearing these facts in mind, the mutual
congratulations of Premier Cahill and
Premier Boite are understandable. From
an irrigation standpoint N.S.W. is the
chief beneficiary of the Snowy Mountains
scheme, and particularly of the portion
so far constructed. Victoria will share the
benefits of the hydroelectric side of the
project. From Mr. Bolte’s angle the more
important part of the project is yet to
take shape—the diversion of Snowy River
water into the Murray.
In his eyes last week’s ceremony was
no doubt a rehearsal for the break-
through a few years hence of the Snowy-
Murray tunnel—on which occasion he
will undoubtedly be perfectly willing once
again to ring the hand of the N.S.W.
Premier and exchange congratulations.
When that time comes, however, it may be
the occasion for a three-fisted handshake.
It certainly will be if South Australian
Premier Tom Playford gets his way. He
has never felt that N.S.W. and Victoria
should be the only States to benefit from
the Snowy Mountains scheme —he can’t
see why South Australia shouldn’t receive
a few gallons.
Enter Playford
When S.A. Opposition- leader
O’Halloran drew Playford’s attention to a
report that the Victorian Premier had
described as “a major victory for Vic-
toria” an agreement with the N.S.W.
and Commonw'ealth Governments doubl-
ing Victoria’s original allocation of
100,000 acre-feet of Snowy River water,
the South Australian Premier said that
as yet it was “a paper victory only.” He
added that he had so far received no reply
to his request to the Prime Minister for
a copy of the Snowy Mountains agree-
ment, but that if the victory was to be
gained at the expense of S.A., “we will
have to do something about it.”
The “something about it” would, of
course, be primarily a request for a share
of the water, backed, in the event of a
refusal, by an appeal to the High Court
against the validity of the Snowy Moun-
tains agreement in relation to the long-
standing Murray Waters agreement signed
by the Commonwealth, N.S.W., Victorian
and South Australian Governments.
This agreement, which covers the use’bf
the waters of the Murray and all its tribu-
taries, including the Murrumbidgee and
Darling, provides a minimum quota
which must be made available to S.A.
It further provides that “the flow of the
Murray at Albury” is to be shared equally
by N.S.W. and Victoria “subject to any
quantity agreed to be sent down the river
for riparian use and for supply to South
Australia.” Another clause provides
that after the utilisation by the various
States of quantities agreed to “a further
volume may be allotted out of any surplus
over the specified allotments to the State
of N.S.W., Victoria or S.A.,**as the case
may be, such further volumes to be deter-
mined by the commission.”
As originally framed, the Snowy Moun-
tains agreement would have given Vic-
toria only a quarter of the diverted Snowy
water, the other three-quarters going to
N.S.W. Mr. Bolte’s “victory” was pre-
sumably gained by insisting on the fifty-
fifty diversion provided for under the
existing Murray Waters agreement.
Murray and Snowy
If so, Sir Thomas Playford has strong
grounds for urging that his State will be
just as interested in “the flow of the River;
Murray at Albury” after it has been aug-
mented by Snowy River water as it is now.
Also that as the Snowy-Murray water will
be surplus to the amount utilised by the
States under the Murray Waters agree-
ment it must be allocated by the Murray
Waters Commission, not merely by agree-
ment between N.S.W. and Victoria. Once
the water has passed through Hume
Reservoir there will be no way of dis-
tinguishing between “natural” Murray
water and Snowy water that has been
led astray. Furthermore, if the two States
in possession of the waters deny their third
partner’s right to a share in its benefits
they may well find themselves faced in
times of abnormal flooding with a
demand from S.A. that they keep their
Snowy Murray water inside their own
boundaries on pain of being billed for
flood damages further downstream.
It has been argued that N.S.W. and
Victoria, in conjunction with the
Commonwealth, have done all the work
for the scheme, so there is no reason why
S.A. should seek to share in the benefits.
The answer to this is that the two major
States will derive all the benefit from the
hydroelectric side of the plan, with the
exception of the small quantity of elec-
tricity required by the Federal authori-
ties. Construction-costs are being borne
initially by the Commonwealth, to be
recouped from the sale of electricity to
the N.S.W. and Victorian State Electricity
Commissions. The cost of supplying
irrigation-water is to be covered by the
charges for the supply of power.
The Commonwealth Government’s Con-
stitutional right to engage in the scheme is
based largely upon its defence-powers.
When in Opposition members of the
present Government questioned the
legality of this procedure, but on attain-
ing office they forgot their scruples and
pushed ahead enthusiastically with the
project. At the same time Canberra is
not likely to relish having the agreement
tested in the High Court, a fact which
Sir Thomas Playford no doubt well
appreciates.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE —ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
'T'HE Canterbury Guineas,
run at furlongs, is the
feature of the S.T.C. meeting
at Canterbury next Saturday.
While the event has not been
much of a Derby guide, it is
worth close attention in a
season such as this, where the
three-year-olds are strong in
numbers and ability, and every
run tells a story.
Movie Boy, winner of last
year’s Canterbury Guineas,
didn’t compete in the A.J.C.
Derby. Prince Morvi won the
Canterbury Guineas and Derby
in 1953. Delta was successful in
the 1949 Guineas, but was
defeated in the Derby by Play-
boy. Moorland, in 1943, was
successful in both races.
Chatham’s Choice, after scoring
in the 1941 Guineas, finished
third in the Derby.
Three-year-olds won four of
the seven races at Warwick
Farm, and three of them—
Tulloch, Grecian Lustre and
Forest Stream —are set for the
A.J.C. Derby. Tulloch came
through with flying colors
against the older weight-for-
age horses in the Warwick
Stakes, and, at this stage, looks
the big show in the Randwick
classic on October 5. Stable
apprentice F. Leman deserved
the big hand he got for his
brilliant riding on the colt.
Tulloch, who has yet to run
worse than second (his 14 starts
have yielded eight firsts and six
seconds), bumped his record
two-year-old sum (£18,203) to
£19,485 with the Warwick
Stakes reward.
• • • •
Although Tulloch is now the
popular Derby choice, a dash-
ing Guineas win by Todman
could cause a revision of
opinion.
Racing in top form, three-
year-old My Peter has won at
three of his last four starts, and
at the other was narrowly
defeated by Akatarawa. He
turned the tables on that
Enzedder in the Wallacia
Handicap at Warwick Farm.
Trained by Reg Cook, who
owns the colt in partnership
with G. H. Elliott, My Peter
was ridden with the skill that
has made Reg’s brother Bill
Cook famous. Cook is still a
master tactician, and a great
horseman on a free-goer such
as My Peter.
The stable intends to start
My Peter in the Caulfield
"I'd kill that brute if I could hit him!"
Guineas, to be run on October
12. My Peter’s weight in that
mile will be 8.10, and the com-
pany will be much stronger
than he has met so far; but
this fellow is capable of testing
them. In recent seasons
Sydney’s Caranna, Barfleur and
Hydrogen have won Caulfield’s
Guineas.
• • • •
A win in suburban Novice
company hardly seems a sound
guide to Derby prospects, but
Forest Stream (raced by E. R.
Williams) is expected to prove
an excellent second string in
the blue riband for Randwick
trainer T. J. Smith, who pre-
pares Tulloch for owner E. A.
Haley. Forest Stream’s first
success was achieved in the
Warwick Farm First Novice,
run at seven furlongs. The
£738 prizemoney knocked a
little off the colt’s cost as a
yearling 2500gns. Forest
Stream hasn’t done much
racing, but was a short-priced
favorite, and had an easy task.
He is by Midstream (imp.)
from Best Wishes by Agincourt
(imp.) from Happy Returns
(N.Z.) by Chief Ruler (imp.).
His sister, Waterlady, won the
V.R.C. Oaks for Williams, and
his half-brother, Forest Beau,
the Q.T.C. Derby and St.
Leger for the same owner.
Forest Stream had only 7.11
at the Farm, but looks up to
the 8.10 he’ll get in the Derby,
• • • •
Many things are possible in
racing, but few experts wifi
allow a Derby success by a son
of Achilles —a miler, whose
best form, though he won
£14,494 in stakes, was success
in the AJ.C. Epsom Handicap,
the All-Aged Stakes and other
races around the mile. The
experts don’t expect Grecian
Lustre (son of Achilles), a
handsome mile winner at
Warwick Farm, to see out the
Derby mile-and-a-half; con-
nections of the colt have other
ideas.
• •; •
In races to date Grecian
Lustre, who won twice at
Randwick over the Bank Holi-
day weekend, has indicated
staying ability. He could get
stamina from the other side
of his family: his dam, Glisten,
is by Brueghel (It.) from
Silver Sequin by Silvius (imp.)
from Quintanona (imp.) by St.
Frusquin. Stayers in the family-
lines include Feldspar (V.R.C.
Derby) and Santoi (Ascot Gold
Cup). Trainer Harry Darwon
has over the years won his
share of staying events at
Randwick, and he knows what
is required of three-year-olds
over the Randwick mile-and-a-
half.
Rosehill-trained Gay Sierra,
who hasn’t won a race for
close on 18 months, improved
sharply on his performance of
three days earlier at Canter-
bury to finish third, about a
length from My Peter, in the
Warwick Farm Wallacia
Handicap. The withdrawal of
stablemate Pacemaker, a last-
start winner, was a pointer to
something, and the market
quickly showed what.
At Canterbury Gay Sierra
eased quickly in the market
and later returned to 10 to 1 ;
but at no stage was he in the
fighting line, and he wound-up
with the tailenders. Few were
prepared for the sharp change
in form and price at the Farm,
any more than his backers
were prepared for the way he
was taken round the leaders on
the home turn. But he had his
chance if he’d been good
enough; he was just unlucky
to strike two good horses
having a day on. His next run
will be interesting.
When the Sydney Turf Club
included in its Guineas Day
programme a Graduation
Stakes at six furlongs, it was
bound to get a huge entry. No
fewer than 111 horses —
maidens and novices—were
nominated, an indication of
the number of moderates in
training on Sydney courses.
Star Kingdom (imp.), sire of
some of the mighty, sired
Star Shadow, a three-year-old
filly who opened her winning
account by leading most of the
way in the Canterbury Park
(midweek) Second Ashbury
Stakes. The filly, who cost
2000gns. as a yearling, hasn’t
done much racing, but is bred
on sprint lines and could
quickly win in better company
over a short course. Her dam,
Sheba, won several races on
Sydney tracks up to a mile.
She is by Golden Sovereign


Missing Friend
TO GEORGE ALLAN WARE formerly
of C/o D. D. WARD, 5 Warwick Street
Harristown in the State of Queensland
but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife DOROTHY
MAVIS WARE of 50 Sutherland Road
Armadale in the State of Victoria has
instituted proceedings against you for
a Divorce on the grounds of habitual
drunkenness and habitual cruelty during
three years and upwards UNLESS you
enter an appearance in the Office of the
Prothonotary Supreme Court William
Street Melbourne on or before the sth
day of October 1957 the case may pro-
ceed in your absence If you intend to
defend this suit you must file an
answer in the said office on or before
the 10th day of October, 1957. —ALLAN
MOORE, LL.B., of 272 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, Soli-
citor for the Petitioner.
(imp.) from Jembra by
Medieval Knight (imp.).
• • • •
[The Sydney Turf Club’s
annual meeting revealed that
the club paid out more prize-
money (£351,743) than any
other Australian racing club
for the year ended June 30.
Members were told at the meet-
ing of various improvements
made and contemplated at
Rosehill and at Canterbury, of
likely revision of rules govern-
ing each-way betting, and a
change in the present Gradua-
tion Stakes set-up (especially
from the two-year-old angle).
The club conducted 47 meet-
ings during the 12 months, and
had an average Saturday
attendance of 22,153.
•i •] •
Melbourne’s spring racing
gets fairly under way at Caul-
field next Saturday. Interest
will split between the £3OOO
w.-f.-a. Memsie Stakes and the
£2OOO Heatherlie Handicap.
The Heatherlie is a 10-
furlong affair; it carries no
penalty for the Caulfield Cup,
but is regarded as' a sound
guide to the big race. Race-
goers will watch with particular
interest the form of White
Hills, Parvo and Fighting
Force, three well-performed
local horses who have already
met with solid support in early
discussions on the Cups-
double.
• 9' •
The Memsie Stakes is run
over nine furlongs, a distance
which will suit Syntax admir-
ably at this stage of his
preparation. Sailor’s Guide
and Sir William should provide
the main opposition to the
New Zealand champion, but it
will be interesting to see how
Lord Gavin shapes in his first
start this season.
• • •! •
Although beaten into second
place in last Saturday’s mile
Morang Handicap for colts and
geldings, Good Summer ran
well enough to earn a trip to
Sydney for the A.J.C. Derby.
Burdened with 9.2 on a heavy
track, the gelding just failed
to catch the speedy and con-
sistent Well Spent, who had
191 b. the better of the weights.
Good Summer, who ran up a
string of victories in the
autumn, was having only his
second start after a spell, and
is bound to be improved by
the run. He is trained by Stan
Smithers, who also has charge
of Dark Spot, an impressive
winner at Flemington last
Saturday week. Both geldings
were sired in New Zealand
by the Precipitation horse
Summertime, who also got
Summalu, runner-up to Monte
Carlo in last year’s V.R.C.
Derby. The stablemates
represent Victoria’s strongest
challenge to Sydney colts for
this season’s classic honors.
• • •
From a Cups viewpoint no
performance at Moonee Valley
last Saturday was more impres-
sive than the victory of White
Hills in the first division of the
mile Tullamarine Handicap.
Most racegoers reckoned the
distance too short for White
Hills, who has been getting a
long way out of his ground in
recent races. Last Saturday,
however, he was able to keep
in touch with the leaders
throughout, and in the run
along the straight finished too
strongly for the consistent
Sans Delai.
The four-year-old gelding
has only 7.2 in the Caulfield
Cup, and his continued good
form is making him increas-
ingly popular for that race. By
High Peak out of Fiorenzo,
he is a full-brother to the well-
performed Kosciusko and
from, the same family as dual
Moonee Valley Cup winner
Valcurl. Fiorenzo, dam of
White Hills, was by Dhoti
from Italicize by Parenthesis
out of Sister Patience, who
was third-dam of Valcurl.
• • • •
It was suggested here last
May that Royal Djafar might
emerge this spring as a Mel-
bourne Cup horse. The four-
year-old reappeared at Moonee
Valley .last Saturday, and,
although he went out unbacked
at 50 to 1, failed by only an
inch or two to defeat the Well-
performed Hellespride.
No starter in the race this year
will be bred better to stay the
two miles of the Melbourne
Cup. Royal Djafar is by
Djafar, a son of the great
French stayer Djebel, from
Maforte by Massine from Fox
Tor by Fox Law. Massine was
the grandsire of Melbourne
Cup winner Toparoa. On his
dam’s sire Royal Djafar inherits
more staying-blood. His dam,
Royal Myth, won the 14-
furlongs Veteran Stakes at
Flemington, and she was by the
stayer, and sire of stayers, Solar
Bear. Royal Djafar has been
allotted only 7.9 in the Mel-
bourne Cup, the race for which
trainer Peter Fergus has set
him.
•' •' •
It is not often that a horse
has an eight-lengths’ lead into
the short Moonee Valley
straight and loses the race ; but
that was the fate of Tirage in
the six-furlongs Ailsa Handicap
last Saturday. Young Brian
Pulbrook seemed to ride an
over-confident race on the
filly, who started an odds-on
favorite. While he sat quite
“cold” on his mount, Miss
Tippette, ridden desperately by
experienced Ernie Sellers,
gradually bridged the gap to
win in the last couple of
strides. The crowd gave Pul-
brook a hostile reception, and
the lad was on the verge of tears
when he weighed-in. He told
pressmen that Tirage just “died”
on him, and he felt that a cut
with the whip would have
caused the filly to collapse. A
more experienced rider, how-
ever, would have saved the race
by keeping Tirage going with
hands and heels. The stewards
later suspended Pulbrook for
a month for “careless riding'"
-—scant consolation to those
racegoers who laid odds-on.
Although it had been stated
that Sailor’s Guide would not
contest any handicaps this
season, the Bendigo horse was
solidly backed for the Caulfield
Cup at Moonee Valley last
Saturday. Mr. A. C. Dibb,
part-owner of Victoria’s best
stayer, confirmed that the
backing was stable-inspired, and
stated that Sailor’s Guide’s
preparation would be aimed at
the Caulfield Cup.
“Judee”: Three members of
the Flett family, of Manilla
(N.S.W.), are in the racing
game—all trainers —and one
of them wears skirts. She is
Dawn Flett, who has four
horses in training. The others
are her father, Eric Flett (14
horses), and brother Vince
(five). Until recently, all the
horses were stabled in the
backyard of the Flett home,
but now Dad has his string at
Manilla racecourse, where he
has built stables. Dawn, who
is 24, got her licence three
years ago. A second brother,
Pat, trains and drives a string
of trotters ; and, to extend the
link a generation, grandfather
Jack Flett was one of the best
trotting-dtivers in Australia in
his day.
* • *
Penrith (N.S.W.) trainer-
driver Perce Hall, the man who
took the mighty Ribands
through the classes at Harold
Park, looks to have a pacer
above the ordinary in Deter-
mined Boy. Hall secured
Determined Boy only after an
earlier mentor had had some
trouble with the gelding: he
had always shown heaps of
potential, but only when he
wanted to, which was often
when the race was run and
won. Determined Boy has won
at each of the first three meet-
ings of the new Harold Park
season: the first week a 10-
furlong Qualifying, then over
lli (from scratch in a 21-class),
and last week over 13i (from
12yds. in a 21-class) —and in
Friday’s run he was left a
good 50yds. at the tapes, only
to gather his field in, race to
the lead in the second lap and
hold off the challenges at the
business end.
+ +
Football Round-up
'IX/'ITH both sides showing
plenty of fight in more
ways than one, Souths, in the
first Sydney Rugby League
semi at the S.C.G., defeated
Wests 26-13. A fist-’n’-boot
scuffle in which three forwards
(two Wests) got marching-
orders and a masterful fullback
display by Souths’ little master
Churchill were two highlights
in a match of many thrills. ...
In the first V.F.L. semi-final,
Hawthorn, which seems quite
at home, hail or no hail, on the
M.C.G., gave Carlton the blues,
10.11-6.12, and made V.F.L.
history by winning its first-ever
semi-final. Now it’s Melbourne
and Essendon, with the loser to
battle it out with the Hawks.
... .In Sydney’s Rugby Union
semi, it was Randwick on top
of Manly 17-8 at the end, after
a match of fluctuating fortunes.
Ironically, Wallaby rejects
Tooth (fullback captain) and
Cross (breakaway) were Rand-
wick’s best men ; Tooth played
a bottler.
* * *
Thoughts and afterthoughts
on the Wallabies:
Bob Davidson, the skipper, has
had more-or-less to make a come-
back to get in the team. After going
to N.Z. in 1952 and South Africa
in 1953, he was consistently passed
over for the next few years. He was
picked for N.S.W. against the
Springboks in 1956, but was then
the only forward of that N.S.W.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Wm
m
:
: : :S
v :
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign o]
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
fire accident
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England)
N.B.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
pack omitted from the team for
the first. Test. This season he was
passed over again for the early
N.S.W. games, against Q. and
against N.Z., but started on the
climb up when recalled for the
first Test against the All Blacks. He
was vice-captain for the second
Test.
It is usually sound practice to
pick the younger man, but a certain
amount of age (when coupled with
experience) can be very handy.
Sometimes the younger player may
not be able to adapt himself as
readily. For that reason it is a
risk to take two young fullbacks
(Curley, Lenehan) —take one cer-
tainly—and leave behind the experi-
ence of Tooth, who has shown some
skill in other positions also-,
and could be handy as a
goalkicker. A man ‘ fit to lead
Australia in two Tests a month or
so earlier can’t surely lose form so
quickly that he’s not good enough
e\en to get in a touring team.
The greatest weakness of the team
will probably lie in its goalkicking
—the great weakness of Australian
Rugby Union generally. There is
not one really sure kick in the side.
(What wouldn't the selectors
have given for N.Z.’s Don Clarke!)
The best kickers of those anywhere
near in the running were the two
fullbacks Graham, of Gordon club
(Sydney), and Queenslander Vin
Hogan (of Brothers) —and both, of
course, had to be left behind.
Queensland has only three reps
in the team; but on its form in all
the games against N.S.W. this year
.it could hardly expect many more.
A pity though; for Rugby Union
in the northern State should get
every encouragement. The “Aus-
tralian” XV shouldn’t come from
Sydney only; in that connection it
is good to see so many N.S.W.
country players included.
Newcastle five-eighth Ron Harvey
has also played Sheffield Shield
cricket for N.S.W. He now
follows in the boots of former
N.S.W. left-arm pace-bowler Alan
Walker, who went to England as a
centre with the 1947-48 Wallabies.
Harvey had some bad luck in his
Shield cricket last season; 12th man
lor about the first half-dozen games,
when he at last got a game, against
Queensland (after having had to do
without all that actual match-play),
he failed, and was then dropped
altogether. For a time it looked as
if he was going to be unlucky as far
as Wallaby selection was concerned,
too.
Gordon club supporters have
always claimed that breakaway Ken
Yanz has been badly treated by
State selectors (he’s never played for
N.S.W.); they’ve said he’s better
than Keith Cross. Certainly there’s
not much between them; but Cross
has seemed to have had just that
little extra pace and dash. Cross
was acclaimed by some as the best
forward on the field in the second
Test against N.Z. this year; and it
does seem a bit inconsistent for
Yanz to be preferred now —
particularly as they are both the
same age, 28. Gordon’s younger
breakaway Purkiss (also quite at
home on the wing), who’s in the
team, too, seems destined to reach
great heights in the game.
Victoria’s sole representative,
Geoff Vaughan, hails from Sydney,
and played with Drummoyne. On
the matter of Rugby Union in Vic-
toria, World War II set the game
back in that State. In the ’thirties
Victorian Rugby Union was making
steady progress, and Victorians were
regularly and properly selected in
Test-teams (such as Dunlop, Bridle,
Carpenter, etc). Vaughan’s selection
may be a good thing for the game
in the southern State.
* * *
The 1957 Brownlow Medal
was won by St. Kilda and Stale
ruckman Brian Gleeson, with
Roy Wright of Richmond,
runner-up. Wright was a hot
tip to win his third Brownlow,
but it’s a fact that the favorite
rarely wins it. Last (and only
previous) St. Kilda winner of
the Brownlow was Colin
Watson, in 1925.
“Piston Pete”: The question
of allowing final-four teams in
the Victorian Football League
to practise on the M.C.G. has
cropped up again. As usual,
any team wishing to use the
ground must go cap-in-hand to
the august Melbourne Cricket
Club for permission, and it’s
unlikely that any team will do
this. Refusals to Footscray in
1946 and 1954 are enough to
deter most clubs from risking a
snub to a perfectly legitimate
request. Surely during the final
round this ground should auto-
matically become “public”
property to all finalists;
especially this year, when it is
claimed that the relaid Olympic
turf is playing very differently
from other grounds and its own
former surface —which must
give the home side, Melbourne,
a type of advantage that was
once peculiar only to certain
cricket teams.
• • • •
“Atala”: When Port
Adelaide and S.A. full-forward
Rex Johns had to with-
draw from Port’s side against
South on Aug. 17, his place
was taken by 18-year-old
Neil Hawke. It was only his
second senior game, but he
kicked 15 goals, a post-war
record for the S.A.N.F.L. The
following week, against Nor-
wood, Hawke would probably
have been dropped but that
ruckman Dean Trowse was
hurt, and Johns was sent to
centre - half - forward (where,
incidentally, he was at sea, and
was the only Port player
beaten). Hawke kicked 9.4 in
Port’s 26.17-8.8 win. It was
Johns who was dropped the
week after.
* * $
“Veryl”: As well as the two
Peter Boxes (B. 14/8/’57) there
are two Peter Phippses in Aus-
tralian sport today. One is the
Gordon (N.S.W.) Rugby Union
centre or winger, brother of
the better-known Jim Phipps ;
Peter went to N.Z. with the
1955 Australian team, as did
Jim, and was in the running
for this year’s Wallaby tour
until a back-injury stopped
him. The other Peter Phipps
is West Adelaide full-forward,
the leading goalkicker in the
S.A.N.F.L. this year; he was
S.A. centre-half-forward against
Victoria in Melbourne.
* * *
“Ailsey”: Few Sydney
Soccer players reach the 200-
match mark. Latest to appear
in 200 first-grade games
for his club (Granville)
is centre-forward Alan Gar-
side. He joined Granville firsts
in 1951, and has missed few
matches since.
* * *
And Sundry Sports
“Moorapi”: Water - seepage
is worrying the management of
Melbourne’s Olympic Pool: no
explanation has yet been found
for the mysterious loss of a
million gallons in the eight
months since the Olympic
champs, went home. As the
rate of depletion is sometimes
7000 gallons in 24 hours, it can
be assumed that quite a volume
of water got away unnoticed
during the Games. Things
could get tricky if the high-
diving were the last-event on a
long day’s programme.
* * #
“Allan B.”: The Victorian
provincial singles champion-
ship for badminton was won
by 17 - year - old Ballarat-
domiciled Malayan student D.
Balasubramaniam; he won
both the A-grade and open
championships, held at Ballarat.
The locals get around the
awkward monicker by listing
him as D. Bala. Bala comes
from Penang, where many of
badminton’s world champions
have been produced. He says
badminton in his country is a
national sport on the same scale
as cricket is here ; and he can,
by the way, wield a good
cricket-bat.
* * *
Sporting dragnet: At Centennial
Park (Sydney) on Saturday Dave
Power won the 10,000-metres cross-
country run, with Enzedder Murray
Halberg second —thus reversing the
result of the Australian 10,000-
metres title run in Brisbane the
previous Saturday. N.Z. defeated
N.S.W. in the teams race.... Vi-
ctorian 19-year-old cyclist John
Nevin won the Australian road-
cycling title in Hobart, in 6hrs.
smin. 22|sec. Nevin’s two brothers
George and Jim had won the title
in other years Australia's Stuart
Mackenzie won the European
single sculls at Duisburg At Win-
ton (Q.), John Hewie, of Winton,
■won the Australian buckjumping
championship In hockey, in
Sydney, N.Z. Universities defeated
Australian - Universities 2-0....
Ausralian Ashley Cooper and
Neale Fraser won he U.S.
tennis double-title, defeating
Wimbledon doubles-holders Mulloy
and Patty... .Australian Rugby
Union Colts defeated Ceylon 21-0 in
the first “Test”... .Russell Mock-
tidge won from scratch the 116-mile
professional-cycling Midlands Tour
(Vic.).


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
4 ESTABLISHED JSI2. ]
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Newcastle District Representative: L. J. Rochester, 3 Bolton Street.
All Classes Marine, Fire ami Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Mannoer.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copies of the following:
The Assimilation of Immigrants in
Australia and New Zealand
(Canberra, 1953), an annotated
bibliography by W. D. Borrie;
Catalogue of Snakes in the British
Museum (1893, 1894, 1896), Cata-
logue of Lizards in the British
Museum (1887), Catalogue of
Chelonians in the British Museum
(1889)—all by G. A. Boulenger;
Bourne’s Journal of Landsborougli’s
Expedition from Carpentaria in
Search of Burke and Wills (Mel-
bourne, 1862); The Ferns (3 vols.;
Cambridge, 1923-28), by F. O.
Bower. —6576.
Words of the recitation entitled
“Kate's F0a1.”—6577.
To buy Introduction to Anthro-
pology, by Beals and Hoijer.—6s7B.
Does Anybody Know?
Any old hands remember Galvain
(or Galvayne), who was breaking
horses in the south-east of Scotland
around 1890? His advice to young
riders:
Your head and your heart keep boldly
up,
Your heels and your hands keep down ;
Your knees well in to your horses's sides
And your elbows in to your own.
Information Sought
(1) Is it true that a German
businessman was mainly responsible
Jar the unearthing of ancient Troy?
(2) If so, is there any available
account of his life ?
(1) Yes. He was Heinrich
Schliemann (1822-90), son of a
German Protestant pastor of lowly
means. As a child Heinrich became
fascinated by Homer and resolved to
try to unearth the Troy of King
Priam. After struggling for a liveli-
hood as a grocer's assistant, cabin-
boy and clerk, in the process learn-
ing many foreign languages, includ-
ing ancient Greek, he made a
fortune in commerce.(and, later, in
the Californian gold-rush), until, in
1868, retiring from business, he was
able to go about realising his child-
hood dream. In that year he
married a 16-year-old Greek girl
who assisted him in all his excava-
tion-work, and in Sept., 1871, began
to dig at Hissarlik, which he
calculated to be the site of Homer's
Ilium. In spite of a somewhat un-
scientific approach, and in face of
the scepticism of professional
scholars, he succeeded in excavating
muchof ancient Troy (thoughit was an
earlier, “Mycenaean,” Troy, and not
the Homeric Troy he sought), and
so helped to confirm as history what
had earlier been only conjecture and
myth. After several years’ work
at Troy, Schliemann turned to the
site of Agamemnon's capital,
Mycenae, in Greece —Homer’s
“golden Mycenae”—and unearthed
the live “shaft-graves,” probably
his greatest find. He thought he
had actually found the body of the
King of Men—“l have gazed on the
face of Agamemnon”—but the
graves were later proved to be mucti
older than the Trojan-war period.
He also excavated at Tiryns,
discovering a “Mycenaean” palace
there. For thus discovering a “new
world” Schliemann was honored,
“Told y' you Were too extravagant with that hurley!”
more so in England than in his own
Germany, and he did undoubtedly
show the way forward to later
archaeologists. (2) See Emil
Ludwig's Schliemann of Troy (1931),
also The Bull of Minos, by Leonard
Cottrell (1953).'
* * * *
(1) What were the full results of
Davis Cup challenge - rounds
between Australia and U.S.A. in the
first five years after World War 11 ?
(2) In which year after World War II
did Australia first win back the
Cup ? (3) In which years did
Sedgman and McGregor play for
Australia ?
(1) 1946, won by U.S.A. 5-0—
Schroeder defeated Bromwich 3-6,
6- 6-2, 0-6, 6-3; Kramer defeated
Pails 8-6, 6-2, 9-7; Xramer-
Schroeder d. Bromwich-Quist 6-2,
7- 6-4; Kramer d. Bromwich 8-6,
6-4, 6-4; Mulloy d. Pails 6-3, 6-3,
6-4. 1947, won by U.S.A. 4-1 —
Kramer d. Pails 6-2, 6-1, 6-2;
Schroeder d. Bromwich 6-4, 5-7, 6-3,
6-3; Kramer-Schroeder lost to
Bromwich-Long 4-6, 6-2, 2-6, 4-6;
Schroeder d. Pails 6-3, 8-6, 4-6, 9-11,
10-8; Kramer d. Bromwich 6-3, 6-2,
6-2. 1948, U.S.A. defeated Australia
5-o—Parker d. Sidwell 6-4, 6-4, 6-4;
Schroeder d. Quist 6-3, 4-6, 6-0, 6-0;
Talbert-Mulloy d. Sid well-Long 8-6,
9-7, 2-6, 7-5; Parker d. Quist 6-2,
6-2, 6-3; Schroeder d. Sidwell 6-2,
6-1, 6-1. 1949, won by U.S.A. 4-1
—Schroeder d. Sidwell 6-1, 5-7, 4-6,
6-2, 6-3; Gonzales d. Sedgman 8-6,
6- 9-7; Talbert-Mulloy lost to
Bromwich-Sidwell 6-3, 6-4, 8-10, 7-9,
7- Schroeder d. Sedgman 6-4, 6-3,
6-3; Gonzales d. Sidwell 6-1, 6-3,
6.-3. 1950, Australia defeated U.S.A.
4-I—Sedgman d. Brown 6-0, 8-6,
9- McGregor d. Schroeder 13-11,
6-3, 6-4; Bromwich-Scdgman d.
Schroeder-Mulloy 4-6, 6-4, 6-2, 4-6,
6-4; Sedgman d. Schroeder 6-2, 6-2,
.6-2; McGregor lost to Brown 11-9,
10- 9-11, 1-6, 4-6. (2) 1950, as
given above. (3) Sedgman, 1949-
50-51-52; McGregor 1950-51-52, in
1951 representing in the doubles
only. (Rose was the second singles-
player in 1951.)
* * * *
Has a goalkeeper ever kicked a
goal in a first-class Soccer match ?
There is only one recorded
instance of such a happening. At
Roker Park (England) in "April,
1900, in a First Division game
against Sunderland, Manchester
City goalkeeper Charles Williams,
with a strong wind behind him,
booted a goal-kick straight down-
field. The Sunderland goalie, Ned
Doig, a Scottish international, came
out to catch the ball, but misjudged
it, and it carried on past him into
the net.
Brief Answers
F.S.: It seems that it is pro-
hibited to keep these animals, and
there is, anyway, virtually no market
foi the hair or skins... .M.H.C.:
Write J. C. Williamson, Ltd., 51
Castlereagh Street, Sydney
K.E.: Perhaps Wirrabara (tree
place), Teralya (timber) or Peena
(trees); before any other sugges-
tions could be given it would be
necessary to know the type of trees.
.... A.K.McK.: The Seychelles
were discovered by the Portuguese
in 1505 ; captured by the French in
1743, then by the British in 1794;
ceded to Britain in 1814; politically
separated from Mauritius
in 1847; letters patent granted in
1903....R.D.: “Brave Ben Hall,’
“The Death of Ben Hall” and
“Ballad of Ben Hall’s Gang” all
appear in Australian Bush Ballads
(available Angus and Robertson;
price, 305.), edited by Douglas
Stewart and Nancy Keesing..,.
L.8.C.: Joe Louis’s real name is
Joseph Louis Barrow... .N.E.A.:
(1) The works of authoress Mrs.
Eileen Finlay, as listed in Miller and
Macartney’s Australian Literature,
are, The Caravan Passes: a Family
Saga (1941), Galleon—Proudly Sail-
ing (1945), Miniatures of Life (1946),
The Hills of Home (1947), Crying
in the Wilderness (1948), The
Caravan Returns (1949), Journey of
Freedom (1950). Also author, under
name of Mrs. E. F. Bosworick, of
ihe Amateur: Being an Answer to
the Specialist (1943). (2) and (3)
No information... .J.McA.: A
brief account of Patrick Hannan,
discoverer of the Kalgoorlie (W.A.)
goldfield, was printed on the
Service page (B. 10/11/’54) —copy
ol that issue has been posted...,
G.C.: A special article on Mt.
Morgan (Q:), “The Golden


This is
the Suit for ME
That’s what any boy will say when he’s wearing a
Stamina Double Breasted Suit because Stamina
boys’ suits are designed, cut, made and* finished by
master-craftsmen. That means the Stamina suit you
buy for your boy will fit him perfectly, fit him comfort-
ably, and keep on fitting him for years. .. for every
Stamina garment has a generously wide “Grow-tuck”
hem which can be let down as he grows.
So ... if you want the best for your boy
the neatest, smartest Double Breasted Suit
obtainable, ask for Stamina.
ASK FOR
Stamina
■
>
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
8WA.113
Mountain,” by M. FI. Ellis,
appeared in B. 29/7/’53 —copy also
posted... .P.A.F.: The Bystander,
by Randolph Stow (Macdonald),
was reviewed on the Red Page (B.
28/8/'57)... .J.L.: On May 13 this
year three U.S. Air Force Super
Sabre jets flew from London to
Los Angeles non-stop in 13hrs.
49min. This distance (6710 miles)
is the longest non-stop hop by a
single-jet aircraft. The planes were
refuelled by aerial tankers over the
Atlantic and again over the U.S.
P...K.C. : (1) A new trade-agree-
ment between Australia and
Britain was signed in Canberra on
Feb. 26 this year. It replaced the
1932 Ottawa Agreement, and takes
into account economic changes since
1932. (2) Yes and no. It gives more
flexibility to the Australian tariff,
but clearly preserves the principle
ol mutual preference....
R.R.: (1) No. (2) No. (3) No.
You're safe. .. .R.W.G.: His son.
....L.S.: Yes, 450... .N.T.E.:
Write W. H. Paling and Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 338 George Street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
A lame and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributor , voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. slto'uld be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary 7
S.K.R.: You’ve tried hard with
the bullock, but he’s rather synthetic.
. ...J.N.: “Phantom Lover”
ghostly.... J.A.: Thoroughly
approve of the last two lines:
It is a gnawMjme thing, God wot;
And even I am not so hot . . .
. ...E.D.C.: It might have made a
par. to lollow the article on John
Farrell; but as a poem it won’t do
at a11....G.M.: Takes too long to
get to the joke... .F.J.: Descrip-
tive; no more... .C.G.F.:
And the farmer asleep with Nature the
wanton
Moans in his dreaming a little.
Don’t farmers ever stop moaning?
. ...D.T.: We got as far as the
magpie’s “benison of song"....
J. 8.: “On the Road to Alice” is on
the road home... .G.8.A.: “1 am
fully aware that I have laid myself
open to the charge that, so far as l
am concerned, the writing of verse is
patently both undesirable and too
difficult. But nothing venture,
nothing win. There is always the
chance that the editor, though not
particularly impressed, is searching
around for something to fill an
obscure corner.” Well, yes; but
the only thing we keep in an obscure
corner is an umbrella....
P.S.: Come in, as a warning to
all:
THE WORLD? WHAT A PLACE!
Tlif world ? A funny place indeed :
Today a poor fellow you are,
Tomorrow rich as a cake you become.
You never know what’s up your sleeve
Nor can you foresee, foretell or con-
ceive.
I know these things, for wise I am,
I read the papers and thus I can tell
Of a certain fellow full of luck.
■Entirely fortunate was he,
But his brain was elementary.
Three thousand pounds in fact he won,
But before he smelt the scent of it
Another fellow with more brain Ilian he
Advised to have a game and win.
But listen to this: for lack of brain
The three thousand smackers’ he lost
again.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
GERMANY'S SURPLUS
TR7 HAT was popularly
** described as “the miracle
of Germany’s post - war
recovery” is, as suggested by the
following comment on the
country’s growing trade surplus
and reserves of foreign
exchange, becoming more of a
problem than a “miracle.”
London ‘‘Daily Telegraph” :
“Playing Monopoly is perhaps
a bit old-fashioned. But
probably most people will
remember that the game grinds
to a halt if one player acquires
all the cash and then refuses to
lend it out. Something of the
same kind —though not exactly
the same —is happening now in
international finance. The
game is being played with too
little cash in the first place:
since the war, prices have risen
by far more than the supply
of cash, represented by gold
and credits with international
institutions. But so far as the
small supply goes, it is tending
to accumulate in the hands of
two countries, the United
Slates and Western Germany.”
The same: “The Americans
have done their best to mitigate
the effects of this, so far as
they are concerned, by their
programme of foreign aid.
Though it has not been very
regular, the United States has
been making available to the
rest of the world something
like $5OOO million a year for
the last few years. Western
Germany, on the other hand,
has been piling up money in
her reserves which have
doubled in the last two years—
and the effect of this is about
to be aggravated by the steps
being taken by the French
Government. By running down
Fiance’s reserves of money the
French Government has
recently been preventing the
worst effects of the German
accumulation from being felt.
Now not only is the rise in the
German reserves continuing;
the French are being forced to
stop spending abroad for lack
of money.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail”: “She
[Germany] has become the
Midas of Europe. Everything
she touches turns to gold. She
has been sucking in the metal
so voraciously that her reserves
are now second only to those
of the U.S.
“France once had the longest
stocking outside Fort Knox.
But in 18 months her reserves
have been almost halved, while
Germany’s have nearly
doubled. Britain has £B5O
million in the old oak chest.
Germany has £l7OO million.
“This reflects the almost
miraculous recovery of a
N. y. “Herald Tribune”
LID TROUBLE
country which in 1945 was
‘out for 50 years,’ and which,
even seven years ago, was the
one with the hollow cheeks.”
* * *
Hamburg “Die Welf’: “The
attacks of our European
partners against West
Germany’s trade and currency
policies should not be accorded
more weight than they deserve.
The main attack is currently
coming from the British press.
The goal is obvious. They want
to force a revaluation of the
mark. But it is clear that
European payments difficulties
will not be basically solved by
this method.
“The West German Govern-
ment and the German National
Bank realise, of course, that
they must show more imagina-
tion if they are to make a
proper contribution to restoring
health to the European pay-
ments situation. But they are
convinced that the revaluation
of the mark would be the worst
method.
“We would be underestima-
ting the British if we supposed
that they themselves do not
know this. The motive behind
the barrage from London is
something quite different.
Britain and France know that
they themselves must take the
next step if they are to avoid
real trouble. They must finally
take energetic measures to
check their own inflation. Un-
popular measures are required
to achieve this aim. Therefore
it is not surprising if they
propose to cure the healthy
instead of the sick.”
* * *
Edinburgh ‘‘Scotsman”: “It
is only fair to admit that the
surplus position attained by
both Germany and the United
States is largely a reflection
of their economic efficiency,
which enables them to make
large exports in relation to the
foreign products they consume.
Favorable balances on external
account are also due to their
relative success in keeping a
check on internal inflation.
These countries cannot be
expected to place direct checks
on the activities of their
exporters, and their Govern-
ments experience the usual
internal resistance to any move
for worth-while reductions of
import duties.”
* * *
London “Economist ” ; “The
Germans themselves are acutely
aware that the pattern of Euro-
pean trade will be blown apart
if the accumulation goes on
much longer—though German
farmers and other interests still
find it hard to accept the
trading sacrifices that are
needed to slow it down. The
appearance of the European
nations at the German counter
each month handing in, like
good boys, their gold and dollar
payments’ cannot continue
indefinitely, Professor Erhard
has remarked.”
* * *
Bradford “Wool Record
"To a visiting Bradford trade
official who showed astonish-
ment, and not a little envy, at
Germany’s economic recovery
a German businessman said
recently, ‘You must remember
to lose the next war!’
“He was not being cynical;
he was putting his finger on the
greatest single factor behind
Germany’s phenomenally rapid
transition from a destitute
downtrodden nation to its
present dominant status in
Western Europe. Defeat in
war is perhaps the most potent
stimulus to action, especially
for a proud people like the
Germans. It has been a long
and hard road to recovery, but
Germany has reached her
goal.”
* * *
London ‘'Observer”: “The
constantly growing German
trade surplus, calling for heavy
gold payments by her Euro-
pean trading partners, is
certainly creating an awkward
international payments pro-
blem; but no useful purpose is
served by railing at the Ger-
mans for ‘grabbing’ or ‘hoard-
ing’ Europe’s gold. There is no
question of any unfair trade
practices on their part; and
their recent measures —such as
the depositing of £75 million
with the Bank of England as an
advance on repayment of post-
war debts, and the cutting of
their import duties by 25 per
cent, over a wide range of
goods show that they are
trying to behave as good
creditors.”
* # *
London ‘‘Financial Times”:
“It is true that Germany has
already taken certain measures
in the attempt to restore
balance to her international
payments. More are now
proposed accelerated debt
repayments, higher overseas


MEN, TOO, CAN LEARN
SHORTHAND
IN TWO HOURS!
In a few short hours you can be an expert shorthand writer!
Guaranteed Miracle Method Ihe sensational Shorthand System that
swept America, enables men and women of all ages and all walks
of life to .sain better positions and more pay.
The Quickest, Most Inexpensive System Ever Devised
You benefit immediately with Miracle Metiiod—no old-fashioned
symbols to learn. T'ses simple converted longhand which you
already know! We GUARANTEE you will write good shorthand
in two hours and 120 w.p.m. in fifteen hours! Full details can
be yours FREE and without obligation. WRITE NOW TO:—
Dept. 83, MIRACLE METHOD SHORTHAND.
Box 155, P. 0., North Sydney.
JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental
Cream
oeH'**'-
e®° H
CLEANS
YOUR
BREATH
m
mn Vv
p>-#
i
«*&&
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
STOPS TOOTH DECAY BEST!
Scientific tests over a 2-year period show a startling reduction
in tooth decay for those who brushed their teeth with
Colgate’s right after eating! In fact X-rays showed no nesf
cavities whatever for almost 2 out of 3 people.
m
m
m
Keeps children's teeth healthy
Scientific tests showed that the Colgate way
of brushing teeth right after eating stopped
decay for more people than erer before
reported in all dentifrice history. Your
teeth are whiter brighter and you
are assured of round-the-clock protection
against decay-causing enzymes.
Colgate Dental Cream Is Australia's largest
America’s largest the world’s largest selling dental cream
Get the Family Economy Size and save 2/-.
V. j/fc
lending, greater freedom for
imports.
“Measures of this kind, if
pushed through whole-
heartedly, would certainly help
to produce a long-term
improvement in the situation.
But two difficulties arise. The
first is that unpopular measures
—the lifting of agricultural
tariffs, for example—are not
likely to be pushed through
wholeheartedly in an election
year. The second is that events
may move too quickly for long-
term remedies to produce their
effect in time.
“By mid-October, Germany
has to report to the O.E.E.C.
what action she means to take
to help restore equilibrium
in the European Payments
Union. The situation may well
have become critical by that
time —even if emergency help
to France is not necessary
before it. Germany will be
done with her election, and the
way will be clear for radical
proposals. It is noticeable, in
fact, that German opinion
has now caught the note of
urgency.”
* * *
Oscar R. Hobson, in London
“News Chronicle” : “Germany
has added to her reserves sums
similar to those which France
and Britain have lost. She has
done this through hard work
and thrift.
“She is accused of having
♦pinched Britain's and France's
gold. She is the un-neighborly
creditor, the bad boy. She
ought to take steps to put her-
self right. She ought to revalue
the mark so as to increase her
imports, reduce her exports,
eliminate her payments surplus
and bring her hoarding to an
end.
“That is the indictment which
is being brought against
Germany. Is it a just one 7
Well, I am certainly not going
to take up the position of say-
ing that in the modern world
—and among allies —a creditor
country has no obligations
towards its financially weaker
fellow-countries.
“But to concede that much
is certainly not to admit the
justice of the accusation. In
my view, it simply does not
hold water. Germany has not
deflated. She has merely
inflated less than other
countries.
“Her price-level has risen
rather than fallen. From the
millions of a few years ago her
roll of unemployment has been
brought down to only a few
hundred thousands—to barely
2 per cent, of the employable
population. So, far from re-
striction of imports, Germany’s
volume of imports has risen
since 1953 by no less than 80
per cent. —actually by a slightly
greater percentage than her
exports.
“Germany’s shining creditor
position is due to shortcomings
not on her part but on the part
of the countries, including
Britain, that have not been
able to throw off inflation and
now find it convenient to seek
a scapegoat.
“They should consider the
beam in their own eye before
drawing such pointed attention
to the mote that is in Ger-
many’s.”
U.S.-China Talks
While possibly not the
longest discussion on record,
the Geneva talks between the
U.S. and Red China would
seem to be putting in a fair
bid for the title. Now entering
their third year, they are,
comments “New York Times,"’
like “something out of a tragic
version of Alice in Wonder-
land'’:
“Periodically our represen-
tative, U. Alexis Johnson, flies
to Geneva from Prague, where
he is American Ambassador.
Periodically his opposite-
number, Wang Ping-nan, flies
to Geneva from Warsaw, where
he is Red Chinese Ambassador.
Then the two meet to negotiate,
speaking to each other through
interpreters.”
There have been 69 meetings
so far, the U.S. representative
trying to obtain the releases of
all the 41 U.S. civilians detained
in Communist China “on
trumped-up charges of espion-
age and the like.” If that can
be accomplished he “will
seriously discuss a mutual
renunciation of force by Com-
munist China and the United
States in the settlement ’ of
international disputes, such
disputes to include, of course,
the one over Taiwan [For-
mosa].”
For the same number of
meetings, the Chinese represen-
tative has been trying “to
arrange a conference between
John Foster Dulles and Chou
En-lai as a first step towards
diplomatic recognition of Red
.China by the United States and
towards Red Chinese member-
ship in the United Nations.
“He also wants the United
States to relax its embargo on
trade in strategic goods with
Red China. He wants our
[U.S.] consent to all this while
his masters still hold
Americans as hostages, while
they boast of ‘reconquering'
Taiwan by force and while they
remain unpurged of aggression


INSURANCE —for your protection■
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
{lncorporated in the Bnttrh Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £19,800,000. Established 1835.
RWfiiTi N- S . W ‘ Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
BW 8131 (4 lines) W. J. c. PENNELL, Manager.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. — In Divorce.
TO JOHN ALBERT HAYDON late of
Redfern.—TAKE NOTICE that ELIZA
ELLEN HAYDON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2409 of 1957 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the First day of November 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from CHARLES GRIFFITHS,
Solicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth Street, Syd-
ney, New South Wales.—J. DOUG HAN,
Registrar.
II any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
against the United Nations in
Korea.”
The talks have not been com-
pletely fruitless, the “N. Y.
Times” adds, because “during
their course Red China has
released most of the detained
American civilians in dribs and
drabs to keep us at the bar-
gaining table”;
“In fact, only six remain in
Red Chinese jails, two under
sentence of life imprisonment
for espionage. We cannot
abandon them by breaking off
negotiations. So Mr. John-
son keeps flying from Prague
to Geneva and engaging
periodically in tedious,
repetitious and maddening
discussions with Mr. Wang.”
Emigration
London “Daily Telegraph’s”
view of emigration—“the right
way to look at this movement
of skilled men and women from
the United Kingdom to the
Commonwealth countries is as
a supplement to the investment
Of physical capital; both kinds
of .investment are to the advan-
tage of the Commonwealth as
a whole” —is not shared north
of the border, where Edinburgh
“Scotsman” looks with some
dismay at the revelation that, of
1000 students at Edinburgh
University, only 450 expressed
“a definite wish” to stay in
Britain.
Even allowing that many
who talk of going abroad will
not do so, the paper comments,
“the point is that the country
cannot afford to lose any of
these people, not 5 per cent.,
far less 50 per cent.
“In all the plans and White
Papers they are taken into
account as a vital elite group.
They are taken into account
not minus 40 per cent, or minus
20 per cent., but as an intact
100 per cent. They are then
carefully parcelled out among
various occupations and found
still to be too few. Unless this
emigration drain can be stopped
we might as well throw all the
White Papers in the wastepaper-
basket.
“One of the basic freedoms
in a democracy is the freedom
to get out. No British Govern-
ment can or should try to stop
the exodus by direct prohibi-
tion. This in itself indicates
how much a free country is at
the mercy of its own free citi-
zens and particularly those with
ability. The fate of Britain
may yet be settled not by any
Governmental decision but by
the aggregate of many personal
decisions.
“A generation of people now
young may will either the sur-
vival or the extinction of
Britain. If they pass a vote of
no confidence by emigrating, it
is hard to see what any Govern-
ment can save out of the wreck,
London “Daily Mirror"
“WE MEAN BUSINESS ABOUT DISARMAMENT'—Mr.
Selwyn Lloyd
but that they should make this
decision is a terrible comment
on the lack of opportunity in
Britain today.
“It is all very well to say
that they are mistaken —but
what statesmanship can give
them practical assurance of
this by revitalising the whole of
British life before it is too
late?”
"Tight Money"
In the course of a substantial
article (in London “Financial
Times”) on the U.S, fight
against inflation, Harvard
economist Professor J. K.
Galbraith touches on some
aspects of the “tight-money”
policy which would seem to
have their parallels in Aus-
tralia.
“In times of high earnings, w
be notes, “both long- and short-
run investment are relatively
indifferent to movements in
interest-costs. In this situa-
tion should a steel company
jeopardise its share in the
market or a utility its ability
to meet its customers’ needs
because money was costing it
a modest amount more?
Certainly not.”
The “radically unappreci-
ated” aspect of a tight-money
policy, Galbraith adds, “is its
very different effect on differ-
ent parts of the economy. The
discrimination is not between
the creditworthy and the
uncreditworthy, as ordinarily
assumed, but between different
industries and large firms and
small.
“Farmers have for some
years been complaining about
the tight-money policy. Annual
investment in agricultural plant
has fallen from slightly over
$5OOO million in 1951 to $4lOO
million last year. At the latter
rate it barely offsets deprecia-
tion. Investment in residential
housing has also declined last
year, and the fall has continued
this year. Agriculture and
building are both industries of
small-scale firms.
“Meanwhile, investment in
producers’ durable equipment
during the first quarter of this
year was at a seasonally
adjusted rate of $32,000
million annually. This was by
far the highest ever and $5600
million higher than a year
before. Most of this invest-
ment is by large firms in the
highly concentrated industries
—steel, autos, electrical goods,
railroads, nonferrous metals
and oil.
‘"Relating these figures to
the highly audible complaints
of farmers, builders and other
small businessmen—and also
to the general approval of the
policy by the large firms which
do not usually display such
fortitude if they are being
pinched—it is fair to conclude
that the policy has indeed had
a strongly discriminatory effect,
“It has worked for agricul-
ture, residential building and
for other small-firm industries.
It has not much affected the
large and concentrated firms.
These, indeed, may have been
the beneficiaries of investment
funds denied to the industries
of small-scale firms.
“In turn, this discriminatory
effect sets sharp political limits
on the policy [of tight money].
Farmers and small business-
men and their friends and
families still vote, and it is
doubtful if, in a time of general
prosperity, they could be
punished more severely than in
the last couple of years.”
Whatever the effects of the
U.S. Government’s current
moves to counter inflation,
Galbraith concludes, “we will
have learnt that the price-
response to monetary policy
can be months and (if agricul-
ture is excluded from the
indexes) even years delayed.
Or there may be none. And
we will have learnt that it
works first on the small and
weak and last, if at all, on the
large and strong.”


Announcing -
issw,
Motor Ou- A
AUSTRALIAN OWNED®
MOTOR OIL
S.A.E. 20 i
AS PURE AS AN OIL CAN BE
JNow, Ampol presents an entirely
new oil to meet the greater demands
of to-day’s high-speed, high-
compression engines. It is vastly
improved over the oils you have
been using . . . better in many
respects than ANY OTHER motor
oil on the market to-day.
New Ampol is no ordinary motor
oil. Now refined from the “heart”
of the finest, costliest paraffin-base
crudes, it is so superior that in
recent engine tests it out-
performed six other high-grade
motor oils.
Available in all regular S.A.E.
ratings and Heavy Duty Diesel
grades .


THE OTHER FEĹOW'S MIND
A Civil List
Isn’t it about time Australia
had a Civil List similar to that
; in Britain?
Too many people —authors,
poets, musicians, teachers —
who’ve devoted their lives to
matters which bring a race to
maturity and give it lasting
dignity are trying to exist on
pittances in their old age The
nature of their work, their
belief in its- value to the com-
munity, their enthusiasm for
it, made the gathering-in of
money always a secondary
consideration.
The musician, for instance,
has to pay the cobbler to repair
his shoes, but is himself
expected to put his own money-
raising labors aside so that he
may raise funds to assist
charitable causes. One
musician I know, now old,
disabled and trying to live on
next to nothing, was renowned
in this respect. In one year
during the last war he arranged
no fewer than 100 entertain-
ments for the Red Cross, other
charitable institutions and
patriotic efforts. From these
he raised considerable sums of
money, but received not a
penny for himself.
There are several notable
Australians (their names are
household words and they’ve
been awarded decorations)
who are almost entirely
dependent on the age-pension.
One imagines the State might
have done better for them.
Surely they have earned as
large a handout from the
Treasury as the average well-
paid politician?
In Britain many who have
performed distinguished
service in educational,
academic or cultural fields are
placed on the Civil List and so
receive adequate pensions. To
be on the list is considered an
honor —the recipient of the
Civil List pension does not
apologise because he accepts
it. It is an institution long
overdue in this part of the
British Commonwealth. —•
Maitri (N.S.W.).
Diesel Fuel
The statement in “Paying for
Roads” (B. 3/7/’57) that tax
levied on the registration of
a heavy-duty diesel-powered
vehicle has no direct propor-
tion to mileage covered
ignores the obvious. A
prospective operator does not
buy this type of vehicle unless
he has a big ton-mileage to
haul, and collecting extra tax
from him in the shape of higher
registration is the most just
and economic method of collec-
tion.
A diesel-fuel tax would be
hard to administer if only road -
hauliers are to be taxed, and
they only on fuel. Cheap
diesel-power does a lot of
important jobs besides road-
haulage, and it is becoming a
more and more important
factor in the development of
“W hat’s it like in ?”
Australia’s outback. It sows
and harvests most of our crops,
clears millions of new acres,
and pumps thousands of acre-
feet of underground water for
irrigation. If the fuel oil is
taxed overall, as petrol is
today, the profit-margin on a
lot of enterprise will become
mighty slim and, in some
cases, disappear. Road-making
will become still dearer.
Why not turn our State inter-
city highways over to private
firms or, if that’s too capi-
talistic, to a Federal Roads
Commission modelled on the
lines of Victoria’s State Elec-
tricity Commission, empowered
to borrow from Governments
or the public, to exact tolls
and otherwise take charge of
these roads subject only to
compliance with State traffic
laws? —S. H. Cramer (Vic.).
Operation Flood
In 1956 the Q.-N.S.W.
border towns of Inglewood,
Texas, Goondiwindi and
Yelarbon were smashed by the
biggest flood they had known.
The placid plains became a
raging sea. Homes and shops
were inundated, stock drowned
and the richest tobacco-crops
in the State laid waste. After
the mud and debris had been
cleaned away, the bill of
destruction was made up. It
topped £3 million.
Had the raging waters
reached their peak at night, the
loss of life would have
been considerable. Fortu-
nately, people were able to rush
to high ground or cram 100-
strong into small schools built
on high stumps. From there
they could see cattle, sheep,
and houses and their contents
hurtle past on the frenzied
yellow flood waters.
Had there been some way to
warn these people of the
approaching peril, much of this
loss would have been avoided.
Cattle and sheep could
have been moved to higher
ground and homes and shops
emptied of their valuables.
There was no warning, how-
ever, and everyone paid dearly
for it. But they learned their
lesson the hard way and decided
they would never be caught off
guard again. A radio-trans-
ceiving station is being built at
Inglewood. Substations will be
set up at Texas and Bonshaw,
on the border, and at Paisley,
GJenelg and Warroo stations.
These transceivers are really
pint-sized power-stations. They
send and receive messages on a
fixed wavelength,’ and there is
very little that can go wrong
with them. Each unit measures
about 17in. by lOin. by 9in.
Once they are installed they are
locked on a given frequency
and all the operator has to do
is throw a switch to change
from “receive” to “transmit.”
“Operation Flood” will be
swinging into action round
about now. Station-owners and
shire-council employees will
be drilled once a week to make
sure they know what to
do should an emergency
arise. If one does, the
outlying substations feed
reports at regular intervals to
the mother transceiver at
Inglewood. These are sorted
and then transmitted to radio-
station 4WK at Warwick.
From here the warnings will be
broadcast over a wide area of
south and south - western
Queensland and northern
N. S. Wales.
The Burnett River ~<Pasin ii\
central Queensland,
district which knows what
floods can do, has a similar
system.
The idea could be profitably
copied by other districts sub-
ject to sudden flooding.—
Bilwon (Q.).
Government by Regulation
The modern trend of Govern-
ments to rely on regulations
rather than on legislation was
recently under attack by J. T.
Lang in an address to the Con-
stitutional Association of Aus-
tralia. The association shares
Mr. Lang's concern. More-
over, it feels that in N. S. Wales
the position is made even more
serious because of the inability
of citizens to ascertain readily
their obligations under regula-
tions, many of which impose
stringent penalties for non-
observance.
The N. S. Wales Govern-
ment Printer is frequently
unable to supply copies of
regulations because they are
out of print. Further, it appears
that little attempt has been
made to publish from time to
time, in consolidated form, the
regulations made under par-
ticular statutes. In most
instances, when regulations arc
available, all that can be


This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
supplied are a number of loose
sheets of regulations that have
been proclaimed, sometimes
over many years, and which
then have to be compared for
amendments.
The law presumes that every
citizen knows the law, or at
least that he can readily ascer-
tain the law, for surely this is
the foundation for the rule
that “ignorance of the law does
not afford an excuse.” The
present state of affairs in
N. S. Wales makes it frequently
impossible to ascertain the law.
The remedy would appear to
lie in ensuring that an adequate
supply of all regulations is
readily available to the public,
and in the annual publication
of separate sets of consolidated
regulations under each statute
where such -regulations have
been varied in the previous
twelve months. — N. G. Baur,
President, Constitutional Asso-
ciation of Australia, Sydney.
Taxation
My pet aversion in the taxa-
tion business is the manner in
which concessional allowances
are affected by the separate
income of a dependant.
In the case of a wife the
allowance is £l3O, and that
amount is not affected if her
personal income does not
exceed £65. However, for every
pound that her income exceeds
£65 the allowance is reduced
by two pounds. The effective
result is that the husband must
pay twice his ordinary tax-rate
for his wife’s extra earnings.
Thus a man with a net tax-
able income of £lOOO would
pay for his own additional
earnings at the rate of 4s. 4d.
per £1 and at the rate of Bs. Bd.
per £1 for his wife’s income
(in excess of £65). If his net
taxable income is £4OOO his
tax is increased by 19s. 6d. for
every £1 of his wife’s extra
income, and if he is unfor-
tunate enough to be in the
highest taxation-group he will
have to pay 265. Bd. for every
such pound, thus showing a
financial loss for the house-
hold.
It is not uncommon for the
“non-working” wife to earn a
few pounds as beneficiary
under a will or from invest-
ment of some savings. Even
if the husband is rich the wife
seems to attach a special signi-
ficance to her private little
income. She can do with it as
she likes without feeling any
obligation to account for it or
any compunction for spending
it.
A mere husband cannot
safely suggest that the interest
of the household would best
be served by his spouse paying
out the excess over £65
towards, say, an endowment
policy which would give her a
good investment and would
save him anything up to
265. Bd. in the £l. After all,
it’s her money, why should
she, etc.? Bless their little
hearts, there is some logic in
their argument, too.
But that’s not the end of it.
If the wife’s income is derived
from bonds which would entitle
her to a taxation rebate, or,
better still, if her income is
exempt from taxation, the hus-
band must still fork out double
the amount he would have had
to pay had he earned the extra
few pounds himself and had
the exemption or rebate not
been applied.
The queerest part still is
that if one engages a full-time
housekeeper one is entitled to
the full rebate of £l3O regard-
less of any other income of
such housekeeper. The same
problem comes up when a child
or invalid relative has an
income in excess of £52.
Whatever the justification
for such penalising of the
breadwinner the system is not
fair.— Perplex (A.C.T.).
Motor-car Design
I was talking to a motor
mechanic this morning— at
least to that part of him not
buried in the innards of a car.
He is a first-class man who
knows the business from A to
Z, but the trouble, according to
him, is that both the A and the
Z are becoming more and more
inaccessible.
Look in on any motor-repair
shop and see the unfortunate
mechanics in all sorts of impos-
sible attitudes—lying on their
backs, standing on their heads,
balancing in some awkward
position that would trouble a
Houdini, all in an effort to
reach some tiddly-winking part
of the mechanism that should
be easily accessible.
I asked my friend whether
things were improving and his
reply was a derisive snort. He
takes a very poor view of the
draughtsmen responsible for
some of the current sleek and
shining models ; they are, he
says, making things even more
difficult for the repair
mechanics. So long as the
finished car looks well and sells
well, that’s about the end of it.
Ultimately, of course, it all
adds up to higher maintenance-
costs for the car-owner, as
about 80 per cent, of most
garage bills represent time spent
by the mechanic on the job.
Easy access could cut this time
item considerably. —C.E. G.
(Vic.).
Toll of the Road
Since fines are doing little or
nothing towards reducing the
toll of the road, what about
short terms of imprisonment,
with the offenders compelled
to work on repairing roads?
They would, of course, have
to work in the district where
they lived, so that everyone
could see justice being done.
It would indeed be interesting
to see the local butcher, baker,
accountant, or even the local
parson swinging a pick. Local-
government jobs could be
found also for women
offenders, possibly cleaning
trams, trains and buses. —
Eureka (N.S.W.).
Municipal Libraries
“Fairf” (B. 10/7/*57) misses
the point in his criticism of
what I wrote regarding free


municipal libraries. Andrew
Carnegie certainly had the
right idea in giving a fortune
towards the establishment of
free libraries, but these are not
municipal libraries and a drain
on the taxpayer.
My objection is not against
libraries; I simply hold that
the provision of free libraries
is not a legitimate municipal-
council undertaking.
“Fairf’s” statement that the
Fairfield (N.S.W.) Council
allows residents to take out
two books at a time, one
fiction and one non-fiction,
indicates that the council
realises that, if given freedom
of choice, a great majority
would take out two fiction.
Most of the borrowers take out
the non-fiction because they
are compelled to do so in order
to get the fiction.
The fact that Fairfield
Council is spending huge sums
on a trotting - track only
strengthens my argument. This
trotting-track is not being
provided free to residents;
indeed there is a stiff charge of
admission to everything on the
track, even on Sundays, so
that this is really a municipal
investment which will bring in
revenue that might be used
for the repair of roads. The
same council, I believe, is also
“Sometimes I don't think I'm ready for high heels."
about to build a swimming-
pool—and rest assured that it
won’t be free.
The truth is, of course, that
the library is not free. It is
paid for by the ratepayers, and
the cost is far greater than any
similar library - service con-
ducted by private enterprise.
If municipal councils are to
give the people free libraries
there is no reason why they
should not give them free
talkies, beer, buses and sanitary
service. The fact is that
libraries, talkies or pubs cannot
be regarded as legitimate muni-
cipal undertakings.—W. P. T.
(N.S.W.).
The Dollar and the*£
Australian newspapers give
a very inflated idea of the
wealth of the United - States.
It is, of course, very great—
there is enormous wealth in the
hands of a fairly large propor-
tion of America’s 160,000,000
people but the “Monthly
Letter” (of November, 1955) of
the First City National Bank
gives some surprising infor-
mation. It quotes Adlai
Stevenson as saying:
I say that it. is wrong that
14,000,000 of our fellow-Americans
hve in families \fhose income is less
than $lOOO a year....ugly patches
ot poverty and insecurity still
deny dignity, even decency, to the
lives of almost one-fifth of all
American families.
The “Letter” ' also quotes
New York’s Governor, Avereil
Harriman, as calling for a
“war on poverty”:
It is shocking to realise that there
are still 8.000,000 families —one out
of every five —with incomes under
$2OOO a year. Minimum h :alth and
decent living-standards cannot be
maintained on that.
The “Letter” points out that
Governor Harriman’s figures
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 450
Across
I—Playwright1—Playwright whose comic plays attacked hypocrisy
produces the greater quantity about dishonesty. (7)
4—We hold he was in the van and moved in a sweeping
curve unlike a sled cad interrupting those who are
married. (7)
. B—Drink when the daylight’s past an influence on weather. (7)
10 — Some slow bowling slab for those undertaking to
introduce a hobnobber with politicians. (7)
11 — A little devil about to state a foreign river’s big show-
men. (11)
13 —Listener backing this girl. (3)
14 — Cost I varied for one who might
pay a huge price without the
slightest trace of emotion. (5)
15— Sydney drama group, followers of
the patron saint of acting,
introduce O'Neill, Goossens,
Tunney, Craig and Johnson. (9)
19—Marmot to court the Washington
Finn included in the non-metal
cast. (9)
23 —March a little ahead of it. (5)
25 — Yours Truly seen with Mother
Sumac, the singing Peruvian. (3)
26 Subterranean lenses in such con-
dition might be blurry. (11)
27 — He is careless about Queen
Elizabeth, but he comes after her
and before. (3)
28— Like a joint on board a vessel. (5)
29 — Red backing the atom likewise
for the German French epigram
mentioned by a Viennese tenor.
(7)
30 — Had a “yen” rendered fatherless?
(7)
31 — Make dents in a reporter’s self-
introduction. (7)
Down
I—How1 —How Prince Charles might have
spoken of his mother donning
a domino. (7)
• 2—Noel is too spoilt to fret for a
solitary tree. (4, 4)
3 This makes a retired reporter
train Lindwall when at his top. (7)
4 Bills give you the jimjams and the
heeby-jeebies. (7)
5 The ambassador’s office intro-
duces them to a singer, but why?
(7)
6 Load it irregularly when checked
in sailing. (4, 2)
7 Crane says Richard is about to
go wrong. (7)
9 —Headgear overturned it on sm
artist. (5)
12—The forker-out of the redemption
money managed Somers in a
singular style. (8)
16 — In heap-like shapes with you to
lose. (8)
17 — Henry, being over three feet, is
seen on many a flagpole. (7)
18— Fruit by the fatter fattener. (7)
19 — An extra Kelly got something
like the middle-age spread. (7)
20 — Ring joined by a Communist
had a row. (5)
21 — A road journey which ensures
an epitaph on a horse-drawn
vehicle. (3-4)
22 — Baby sleeps in snatches. (7)
24 —Pharaoh’s, daughter made a dis-
covery in such peak-hour hustles,
but she’s after a little football. (6)
Solution to Crossword No. 449


M ighty
Royal
Melbourne
SHOW
Sept. 19 Sept. 28
Australian Agriculture’s Grand Parade of 1957.
Thrilling Spectacle for the Horse Lover.
Novel Equestrian Events: Olympic Jumping.
Unrivalled Exhibition of Beef and Dairy Cattle
and Livestock of all Classes.
Old-time Bullock Team Takes the Arena.
Arts and Crafts: New Australians Display
Their Handiwork.
Army Tattoo. Brass Bands and R.S.L.
Marching Girls.
Wood Chopping Championships. Sheep Shearing.
Sheep Dog Trials.
Mounted Police Musical Ride and
Tent Pegging.
Aboriginal Choir.
The Garryowen: Unique Women Riders*
Trophy.
Interstate Polo Crosse.
Warrnambool Road Race Finish in the Arena.
Country Fire Brigades at Work.
Atomic Energy Exposition.
Homecrafts: Womens Work.
Winning Country Couple Welcomed.
Wool Fashions: 27 Mannequin Parades.
Show Girl Coronation.
The Mechanised Farm.
More and More Machinery and
Motor Exhibits.
Motor Cycle Trick Riding.
as well as
ALL THE FUN OF THE FAIR...
Sideshows, Bags of Samples, Fireworks, Carnival
and everything that Makes the Show
A FAMILY AFFAIR
Special Family Tickets (for Mother and Father and
four children) at ten shillings. School Concessions.
Special Trains. All prices and samples Officially
Checked.
were based on the Census
Bureau’s estimates for 1954;
that the figures for 1955 were
7,500,000 families. According
to a graph of the Census
Bureau, some 1,400,000
families have incomes under
$500; 1,600,000 between $5OO
and $lOOO and 5,000,000
between $lOOO and $2OOO. The
“Letter” also quotes other
sources which show consider-
ably lower numbers in each
class. It also attempts to show
that, after all, $2OOO is not
such a bad income:
It does not follow from a $2OOO
income that a family is grovelling in
poverty. A number of books have
been written advising people how
to live in retirement on modest
Incomes, some of them smaller than
$2OOO a year.
In the 1951 book These Harvest
Years, edited by Janet Baird, an
elderly couple was found to require
$1560 a year to meet all minimum
needs.
Allowance for cost-of-living
increases since 1951 would still keep
the required budget below $l7OO.
Some retired people live comfortably
or. less.
It is important that Aus-
tralians, hearing so much and
so often of the great wealth of
the U.S. and consequently
thinking how badly off we are,
should know something of the
real conditions over there.
This brings me to my real
point. Our papers, when
reporting expenditure in the
U.S., say, for example, “A
bridge in New York is to cost
$20,000,000 (£A9,880,000)” or
“a doctor has put in a bill to
the parents for $l5OO (£A675).”
Now, if the $l5OO had to be
bought in Australia it would
cost £675, but in the U.S. it
would buy, on an average,
about what £3OO would buy
in Australia.
In November last the U.S.
Consul gave me official figures
of the take-home earnings of a
male production-worker with
three dependants in the U.S. in
1955. The average weekly
take-home wage was $70.53.
An Australian worker of the
same class would take home
about £l4. Assuming, as I
believe is correct, that the
standard of living in the two
countries is about the same,
the $70.53 must buy in the
U.S. what, on an average, £l4
will buy in Australia. There-
fore, £1 spent in Australia will
buy on an average what $5
buys in the U.S., making the
$ worth 4s. —each spent in its
own country.
As to the standard of living,
the Consul could give me no
official figures, but he told me
that a U.S. magazine had
found that the cost of living in
Australia was 95 per cent, of
the cost of living in the U.S.
If, as already mentioned,
$l7OO is necessary to provide
a retired couple with the
“minimum requirements,” a
worker with wife and two
children on $70.53 a week can
have very little to spare. It
is reasonable to think that his
state is no better than the
Australian’s on £l4.
As confirmation of the fore-
going figures, Dr. Naylor, of
Queensland, then at a South
Carolina university, wrote (in
Adelaide “Advertiser”) of the
depressed state of negroes in
the south. He mentions a
negress who could earn $12.50
for a five-day week, “equal in
purchasing-value to £2 10s. in
Australia,” and of a farmhand
who might get $25, “which
would buy him as much living
necessities as £5 in Australia.”
The relation between U.S.
and Australian figures is
important for this reason: The
U.S. Government recently gave
away 5000 tons of butter at
43 cents, which the “Adver-
tiser” stated as 3s. 7d. Aus-
tralian—not, apparently, a dis-
turbing price. If the dairyman
here had realised it was
only the equivalent of Is. 9d.
Australian he might have taken
much more interest in the
transaction. And now that the
selling of wheat is not so easy,
we are liable to get a very
incorrect idea of what the U.S.
is doing. L. W. Ferres
(S.A.).
Religion and Politics
Religious influence in
politics on a partisan basis is
certainly undesirable (B.
12/8/’57), but it is a different
matter when a Government
initiates policies which Church
leaders consider morally
wrong.
The Roman Catholic Church
and a strong body of Protestant
opinion, for instance, hold
divorce to be evil. They would
not be acting outrageously in
agitating against a proposal to
make divorce easier. Similarly,
the Roman Catholic Church
would be quite justified in
condemning any Governmental
attempt to make birth-control
compulsory.
The Protestant Churches,
both in Australia and the
United Kingdom, will not
countenance gambling in any
form. They are also against
organised sport and theatrical
entertainments being held on
Sunday. They are not “inter-
fering in politics” by standing
up for these beliefs.
Kanimbla (N.S.W.).


LYS
PROor
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHTS
ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE
WIRE NAILS
m
m
‘•fSa
■
n
'
ra
-m
.
ZINC OXIDE
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
LOOK for Oar MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
QUEENSLAND CACTUS PEST
[By DAVID PETHERBRIDGE, Hon. Sec., “Men of the Land”]
THERE has been some
concern in recent months
about a potentially serious
cactus pest in Queensland. An
article on the subject appeared
in “Living Earth,” the official
organ of Men of the Land,
A new fat-lamb type
of sheep has been
developed in America,
evolved from four
established breeds—
Shropshire, Leicester,
Columbia and Tar-
ghee. The ewes were
chosen purely on their
ability to produce
top - quality lambs.
One way to maintain
top quality in lambs
is to use Elastrator
Rubber Rings for
marking and tailing.
Lambs so marked and
tailed are safeguarded
against set-back and
disease.
and, in order to get all available
information, the society wrote
to the biological section of the
Queensland Lands Department.
The Lands Department very
kindly prepared a statement,
and we can do no better
than repeat it here, not only for
the benefit of Queenslanders
but as a reminder to people in
other States of the dangers to
primary industry of apparently
innocent plants kept, initially,
to brighten a homestead.
But first, perhaps, it would
be as well to quote from the
covering letter by the director
of the biological section, point-
ing out errors in the original
article printed by our society:—-
I might mention that Harrisia
does not spread by means ot
detached segments, which do not,
as in prickly-pear, break off and give
rise to new plants. Secondly,
isolated plants do not have to be
dug out or taproots laid bare to a
depth of a foot in order to destroy
the roots with weedicides; all that is
necessary is to chop the plant
through just below ground-level and
to apply the poison, a much simpler
operation.
The statement from the
Lands Department is as
follows:
“H ar ri si a (Eriocereus)
martinii, a native of South
America, has assumed serious
pest proportions in the Collins-
ville district, inland from
Bowen in North Queensland.
Smaller establishments of this
plant or the closely related
H. tortuosa occur in several
other parts of the State, from
Charters Towers in the north to
Goondiwindi on the N. S.
Wales border; these infesta-
tions are not spreading to a
marked degree. The real
problem is the control and
destruction of the cactus in
the Collinsville area.
“The Collinsville situation
originated from a pot-plant
grown at a station homestead
about 60 years ago. Occur-
rences of Harrisia in certain
other districts can be traced
similarly to cultivated speci-
mens. Until legislation was
passed several years ago to pro-
hibit the sale of cactus-plants
in Queensland, Harrisia was
often sold by city shops with-
out its identity being given, or,
in many cases, apparently
known.
“The plant bears bright-red
fruit with a white pulp, con-
taining as many as 300. small
black seeds. Certain parrots
and other birds feed freely on
the fruit, and so distribute the
seed.
“Wherever the spiny arms
or branches make contact with
the ground they send down tap-
roots. Thus, individual plants
can increase in diameter rather
rapidly, and in suitable loca-
tions scattered plants soon
intermingle to form a tangled,
thorny mass.
“At Collinsville, Harrisia has
spread for a distance of 60
miles from the original point
of establishment. The actual
infestation embraces many
square miles, and includes some
thousands of acres of dense
growth in almost impenetrable
thickets. All the dense areas
are -in brigalow-scrubs and
brigalow-sandalwood tracts ; in
open and lightly timbered
country the cactus is relatively
sparsely established.
“The difficulty and costliness
of destroying Harrisia is due
to the nature of the taproots,
which are rather bulbous or
tuberous, and constrict to
narrow necks at intervals. In
young plants there is one tap-
root only, but as new roots
develop where the branches
touch the ground, there may be
scores of taproots in a large
clump of the cactus. In the
dense areas at Collinsville there
are many thousands of these
roots to the acre. Chemical
sprays which destroy the above-
ground growth rarely circulate
through the whole of each
tuberous taproot-system, any
small surviving portion of which
is capable of producing
regrowth, often from depths of
12 or more inches. Further-
more, this regrowth may delay
its appearance for as long as
2\ years after a plant has
apparently been killed by the
spray treatment.
“Experimental work carried
out by the Lands Department
over a period of many years
has failed to find any type of
weedkiller which, when sprayed
on the growing plant, will
effectively destroy the tap-
roots. Arsenic-pentoxide has
proved to be the most satisfac-
tory destructive agent. But
even spraying with strong
arsenical solutions will not, in
one treatment, destroy more
than a small proportion of the
roots.
“Taproots can be effectively
killed by chopping them
through just below ground-
level and pouring a small
quantity of the arsenical solu-
tion on and around the cut-
through top of the tuber-
system. Certain other weedi-
cides will act similarly. Thus,
younger plants with one or at
most a few root-centres can be


ncuiMdwJtkmk^
mm
Regd.
Easy to use and
simple to operate.
Is draughtproof and
can be used in or out
of doors. Has com-
plete heat control
from silk to serge.
• 4 hours easy'ironing
on only £ pint of
kerosene.
• No wires —no flexes
• Take it anywhere I
• Cannot spill t
• 100% British Made
too I
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores throughout Australia,
In case of difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Oa, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
V
I
OS
CM
I*'
oO*
»oH*
v.' 1
UK* 1 *"
kit.
A
rxi-M-Oi.
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATI
Any farHealart gladly npplhi ■
Writ. t. DAVIS GELATINE: 6AO Im KM.
SYDNEY • GAO. lo> 4051. MELBOURNE • GAO.
Im 712 F, ADELAIDE • GAO. Im ISK MISSAN*
• GAO le> Ml. BERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
completely destroyed in one
operation.
“With large plants and
clumps, taproots are too
numerous to be located and
treated in this manner. It is
necessary to spray the original
growth and subsequent re-
growths annually for three or
four years ; each treatment will
destroy some of the roots and
will decrease the amount of
regrowth. The plant will then
have been reduced to the point
where treatment of surviving
taproots becomes practicable
“ Yes, we need a man —had much to do with horses ?”
and complete destruction
achieved. It must be emphasised
that, except in the case of
smaller individual plants, no
quick method of destroying this
cactus has been determined.
Eradication of large plants and
clumps requires that the
poisoning technique should be
conducted each season for a
few years. However, scattered
plants and patches can be
wiped out by the methods out-
lined, and there is no reason
why landholders should not be
able to rid their properties of
such infestations.
“The extent and density of
the cactus growth in certain
brigalow scrubs in the Collins-
ville district present greater
difficulty. In some areas the
cactus is so thick and matted
that initial spraying cannot be
undertaken until a bulldozer
has cleared tracks through the
thorny thickets, so as to permit
motor - trucks with spray-
equipment to operate; further-
more, taproots are exceedingly
numerous, estimates of 40,000
to 50,000 such roots per acre
having been made.
“The clearing of these heavy
infestations is being carried
out by the Lands Department
at no cost to the landholders.
Gangs of men, equipped with
power-plants mounted on
motor-trucks, are engaged in
spraying the Harris ia with
arsenic-pentoxide solutions,
Operations were commenced in
1951, and have gradually been
expanded. Several thousand
acres of dense Harrisia growth
have now been given from one
to several annual spray-treat-
ments. As a result, over much
of the treated area, the cactus
has been reduced from im-
penetrable masses to light or
relatively light regrowth. The
total cost to date of this destruc-
tion campaign has been in the
vicinity of £175,000.
“o n the question of bio-
logical control, it can be stated
that over a p er j oc i G f ma ny
during prickiy.pear-
.,° K , v
co , n,rol l Australian
entomologists made a general
s *ydy of the insect enemies of
all types ot Cactacex in North
anc *, South America. The
results of this investigation
indicate very strongly that the
prospect of finding a suitable
controlling agent would be
rnost unlikely and would not
warrant the lengthy and costly
overseas operations that would
have to be undertaken. . . .
So there it is. A good illus-
tration of how a home-
cultivated plant can ultimately
become a menace of pest pro-
portions, endangering all prin-
ciples of proper land-use.
Cnrrvma Cnoncitv
Y*’ * Y
..stringer”: Any ideas that
the Victorian Mallee could
carr y as muc j! as a sheep to
(he ' cre under natural rainfall
are eX p|oded by the fact that
51 o£ ' the more progressive
farmers who entered in this


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GJEOJRGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP ( Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOT (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, G. GORDON RUSSELL, A. MURRAY JONES.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
year’s Hanslow Cup soil-
conservation contest couldn’t
run more than a sheep to
acres despite pasture-
improvement, good manage-
ment and a good season.
Incidentally, the average
area per farm was about 3000
acres —a contrast to the 640-
acre and even 320-acre blocks
on which the pioneers were
expected to make a living.
Mechanisation has enabled the
larger areas to be worked
effectively.
In its report the Soil Con-
servation Authority points out
that about one acre in three in
the competition was under
improved - pasture a big
advance on the one acre in
12 of only three years ago.
Although the area inspected
last year was more than 8000
acres above this year’s total,
the 1957 exhibits had 9000
acres extra of lucerne, 18,500
acres of barrel-clover and 3750
of Wimmera-ryegrass. There
was slightly less evening-
primrose and perennial-veldt-
grass this year.
Sheep numbers had increased
by 6500 and cattle by 300..
Mrs. Lindner and Sons, of
Tutye, 1957 winners, carry
800 sheep on 3224 acres, which
include 1400 acres of barrel-
clover, 750 acres of lucerne
and 200 acres of mixed
perennial-veldtgrass and even-
ing-primrose.
About 300 acres of wheat
are sown each year on a six-to-
seven-year rotation.
Small, lucerne stacks of 10
to 15 tons each are a feature
of N. Watt’s property at
Werrap, which gained second
place. Made with an elevat-
ing pushrake, the stacks are
fenced and are opened to stock
only when needed.
Advantages claimed for this
“cafeteria” method of handling
lucerne include saving of labor
in building, safeguarding of
stock if stacks collapse when
undermined, reduction of
wastage and easy handling of
residue.
Differing from many, Mr.
Watt claims it is better for a
lucerne stand to be grazed
methodically than for it to be
cut. One reason, he says, is
that the grazed stalks help to
protect young growth from
scorching summer tempera-
tures.
Random-sample Tests
“Spin”: In an article dealing
with tests being conducted in
W.A. a Perth paper described
chickens taken for the tests
as “the pride” of some of the
hatcheries —and the article
immediately lost all point.
Worse, it may have
strengthened a wrong impres-
sion.
The whole point of this type
of test is that the birds
shouldn’t be the pride of any-
where. They’re chosen at
random, the idea being to com-
pare different strains, reared
under the same conditions as
regards environment, feeding
and general management. The
test should show how they
compare for hardiness, resist-
ance to disease, egg-production,
size and quality of egg, meat-
value and feed-egg ratio.
From the results of these
tests a poultryman should get
a good idea which hatchery
can supply the chicks best
suited to his conditions and
particular needs.
Random-sample tests vary in
Some features. Some select —
or, rather, take —a quota of
hatching eggs; some prefer
day-old female chicks ; but all
agree it is essential that
the birds are representative of
those offered for sale by the
hatcheryman. Some testers go
to the length of having all the
eggs laid by the breeding-flocks
for a three-day period mixed
together and the selected eggs
taken from that. If day-olds
are selected the same care is
taken to see that they’re truly
representative that they're
average and not the pick.
Usually 50 pullets comprise
the team from each hatchery.
They, and all the other teams,
are housed, fed and generally
managed under identical con-
ditions. At about 18 weeks
they’re transferred to laying-
sheds for a year, and accurate
and detailed records are kept.
At the end of the test the
management has a mass of
information which could be
applied to any 50 chicks bought
at random from each of the
hatcheries included. They
know how many could be
expected to live to production-
age, how many eggs they’d
produce, how much feed they’d
eat and how much they’d be
worth at the end of the laying
period.
Spraying Crops
“Sundowner”: When using
selective weedicides make sure
you kill only weeds. While
control of weeds increases
yields by removing a source
of loss —that is, reducing com-
petition from weeds—spraying
at heavy rates to give a better
kill might injure the crop.
Choice of chemical, rate of
spray and time of spraying
must give the best possible
balance between these two
effects.
Of the five hormone-type
weedkillers it’s perhaps best
to use the sodium-salt of either
M.C.P.A. or 2,4-D if these
forms are effective in con-
trolling the particular weeds
in the crop. For crops
infested with wild - turnip,
sodium-salt of M.C.P.A. at
4oz. per acre gives Satisfac-
tory results in nearly all areas.
The cheaper esters are more
liable to cause direct damage
to the crop. Another factor
is the effect on clovers or
lucerne sown with the crop;
less damage is likely with the
use of sodium - salt of
M.C.P.A.
For cereal crops spraying
must not be too late, nor must
it be too early. The decision
largely rests on the amount of
weed in the crop. If there is
any' doubt it is better to spray
before the “boot” stage of the
plant is reached, rather than
run the risk of spraying later.
The general aim should be
to spray during warm, fine
weather without strong winds.
Another important factor is
to apply the recommended
amount per acre, otherwise you
will fall between the two
stools of unsatisfactory weed-
control on the one hand or
almost total weed-elimination
but reduced crop-yield on the
other.
Other causes of poor results
are partially blocked jets,
dirty line - strainers, faulty
pumps and inefficient stirring
of the spray-solution in the
tank, as well as variable or
incorrect speed of the sprayer
and lack of knowledge of the
exact delivery-rate of the spray-
equipment.
The type of cereal also plays
its part in a true assessment
of the safety-factor. Wheat is
less likely to be damaged by
hormone - type sprays than
either barley or oats, but all
are susceptible at some stages
of growth. For instance, wheat
is unaffected by spraying with
either M.C.P.A. or 2,4-D, pro-
vided growth-stage and other
recommendations are observed.
And ester 2,4-D causes no
damage to wheat, but lowers
the yields of both oats and
barley. Again, spraying of any
of the three with 2,4-D in the
ester form before tillering is
well advanced can result in
serious damage.
Stage of growth is also the
chief factor in determining the
spraying of legumes, such as
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(22/8/’57)
There should he general September rains in a large part
of Queensland, heaviest—with the likelihood of flooding-
on the central highlands and central coast. Good falls should
occur in the north-west, Gulf country and north coast during
October, with moderate patchy rains elsewhere.
N. S. Wales should receive moderately good general
rains during September, best on the north coast, northern
tablelands, south-west slopes and Riverina. There si ould be
moderate patchy rains during October and November,
although the coast and tablelands should have good falls.
Victoria should receive general rains during Sep-
tember, with probable flooding in the Murray and tributaries.
Reasonably good follow-on rains should occur in October
and November, with good falls in East Gippsland in October.
September should see reasonably good general rains in
S.A., with light to moderate rains on the west coast and
interior. Moderate patchy rains should occur in the agri-
cultural areas during October.
Good rains should be received in the south-west and
south coast of Westralia during September, with light rain
in the West Gascoyne and goldfields areas; poor elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


TYR
When your Lugs are worn, the greatest part of your original investment remains
DON'T DISCARD THESE
TYRES
Have them put back into service by
VACU-LUG
with
A FULL GUARANTEE
at
HALF NEW TYRE COST
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL DEALER
FOR ‘ON THE FARM SERVICE’
or
IF NO SERVICE IS AVAILABLE IN
YOUR AREA FORWARD YOUR
TYRES DIRECT TO
VACU-LUG
Darling Harbor
and mail your name, address and
instructions. (Keep a record of
your size, make and Serial number.)
They will be returned Freight paid—
Passenger Rail. Discount for Cash
on Delivery.
NOTE: We process tyres for over 5000
clients per year, and cannot carry accounts.
Vacu-Lug puts high grade tough
rubber where you need it—on
the Lugs. Vacu-Lug does not
interfere with the existing
100% bond between base
rubber and the cord body of
the tyre. A Farm tyre cannot
be stripped, as with normal re-
treading procedure. Therefore,
Vacu-Lug does not damage
your casing.
Vacu-Lug Repairs are also Fully
Guaranteed, and are cheaper
than any other type of repair.
Write for further information,
Acceptance Standards, Pricelists,
etc., to —•
VACU-LUG (N.S.W.)
PTY. LTD.,
BOX 16
MASCOT
Remember, Vacu-Lug is World wide, and throughout the World is Fully Guaranteed.
the clovers, undersown to
cereal crops. In no circum-
stances should spraying be
undertaken before the pastures
have reached the four- or five-
leaf stage; better still, wait
till the plants have put out
runners.
To deal with the harder-to-
kill weeds, such as skeleton-
weed, hoary-cress, convolvulus
and saffron-thistle, which are
bound-in with the pasture and
which would need a stronger
grass-killing mixture, try a
compromise at a lower rate
than |lb. per acre of 2,4-D.
This should give reasonable
weed-control and reduce the
risk of damage to the legume.
Seepage
“Capri”: A combination of
C.5.1.R.0.'s Mansfield Process
to reduce evaporation in
reservoirs, tanks and dams, and
a new method to prevent
seepage in the bottom of
earthen channels, could result
in the saving of many millions
of gallons a year from systems
such as the Wimmera-Mallee
gravitation stock-and-domestic
supply, which flows north from
the Victorian Grampians.
Seepage not only wastes
water, but in many cases
makes the land useless for
cropping for upwards of a
chain from the channel. As
pipelines—the real answer to
this problem—are too costly,
a new method of compacting
channel-bottoms may at least
reduce seepage greatly.
Developed in Russia and
tested recently at Natya in
northern Victoria, it consists of
suspending a pattern of
gelignite under the water, a few
inches above the channel-bed,
at 3oz. of explosive to the
square-yard.
This is exploded with the
object of making the channel-
bed impervious to water. The
Natya experiment should tell
us whether this method is
successful under Australian
conditions.
At the same time, drift of
sand into the channel must be
prevented. Good seasons and
better farming methods have
reduced the amounts of sand
to be moved from Wimmera-
Mallee channels, from
12,297,000 cu. yds. in the
1945-46 “dry,” to 910,000 cu.
yds. in 1955-56.
Despite higher wages and
other charges, costs have come
down from £322,827 to £64,830
in the same period, with a low
ol £52,437 in 1949-50.
Farm Hints
“Billjim”: United States
foresters have discovered that
if the lower branches are cut
from young trees they will
develop better-quality, clear,
knot-free wood. A pine at the
16ft. to 25ft. height can be
pruned at four-to-five-year
intervals with 10 ‘minutes of
work.
“C.A.A.”: Greenfeed for
poultry can be increased by
sowing stale areas of yards with
mustard-seed. This plant will
give quick supply of feed, and
help to sweeten the stale soil.
Sow lib. of white-mustard
seed to 40 square yards
of ground, and you can expect
a good cut of feed within six
weeks.
“Sundowner”: Although San
Jose-scale on pear- and apple-
trees is difficult to detect, a
regular winter application of
dormant oil, sgals. in 100,
or superior oil, 3gals. in
100, will control the mites.
If trees have suffered a lot from
this disease, a mixture of pale
oil and sulphur should.be used
at a strength of pale-oil 2{gals.,
lime-sulphur 7gals., and water
90gals.
“Dem”: Milk is a splendid
food for baby chicks. Besides
being one of the best things to
help them grow fast and strong,
it plays a big part in prevent-
ing coccidiosis and other
diseases. Don’t stop giving
milk when the chickens are
three or four weeks old —keep
it up until it can be seen that
they, are definitely established
as strong growing stock.


Women's Letters
SYDN EY
This has been children's week in Sydney.
The trams, stores, parks and picture-
theatres have been overflowing with them.
There did not seem to be any film specially
suitable for children (although the news-
reels have Charlie Chaplin as a floor-
walker), so they poured into “The
Shiralee” and "Man Afire,” neither of
which is quite their cup-of-tea. However,
the acrobatic performances by members
of the Police and Citizens Boys’ Clubs in
Martin Place and their musical offerings
in the Town Hall were really delightful,
the boys’ appearance, vitality and skill
all paying dramatic tribute to the splendid
work of these clubs.
* ☆ ☆
Among the diversions of the week
were the mannequin-parades of children’s
clothes held at several stores. Anthony
Horderns’ had young Dana Wilson, of
“The Shiralee,” and at Mark Foy's six
young models showed how the line of the
littlies’ clothes follows that of the adults,
especially in beach-wear. Three-year-old
Kim Watson (Forest Lodge) looked
especially sweet in the fiat sailor-hats that
every little girl will want this spring.
Julie Youatt (Randwick) and Christine
Simmons (Sans Souci) with Garry and
Glen Kilgour (Maroubra) and Stephen
McDermott (Turramurra), whose ages
range from six to nine, showed that
modelling can be most effective when
done with simplicity and charm.
☆ -ft ☆
The 1957 Grand Opera Season opened
with "La Boheme” on Saturday night
and drew quite a well-dressed audience.
It was. a full-house, and garlands of
flowers decorated the dress-circle in
honor of the presence of the Governor,
Lt.-General E. W. Woodward, Mrs.
Woodward (who wore a flower-patterned
satin dress with a claret-colored chiffon
stole) and daughter Judith (whose dress
was a ballerina in draped blue chiffon).
Mr. Hugh Hunt and Sir Richard and Lady
Boyer welcomed the vice-regal party.
It was rather noticeable that the men
appeared more reluctant to dress-up than
the women, for quite a number of
lounge-suits were to be seen. Yet at the
same time there is a tendency for men’s
evening-wear to be expressed in fancy.
Tucked and frilled shirt-fronts are
becoming quite common ; one man wore
a midnight-blue tuxedo with velvet lapels,
another a flowing opera-coat. Mrs.
Gordon Johnston, who with Mrs. Noel
Vincent will judge the Best-Dressed Man
contest at the Elizabethan Ball on
September 17, was at the opening. Noted
also Mr. and Mrs. Bruce McFarlan, Mr.
and Mrs. Verner Cole, Mr. and Mrs. J.
H. Pelly, Mr. and Mrs. Dot Balt, Mr. and
Mrs. Clement Williams, Mr. and Mrs.
Raymond Beatty.
Jennifer Roche has chosen St. Joseph's
Church, Edgecliff, for her marriage to
Tom Reynolds early in December. This
is “the church next-door” for her family
—already three of her sisters and her
eldest brother have been married there.
Jennifer is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
J. D. K. Roche, of Cranford, Edgecliff,
and her fiance is the son of Mr. W. H.
Reynolds, of New Guinea, and the late
Mrs. Reynolds.
Three attractive lasses decorate the
Independent Theatre’s new production,
"The Big Knife.” They are Diana Perry-
man (not long returned from her tour of
New Zealand with the Liveseys), Janette
Craig (who is noted in radio and a likely
claimant for thp Miss Australia title)
and Wendy Blacklock (free after 100
performances in the Phiilip-street
Theatre's last revue). “The Big Knife”
is about Hollywood life and how it chops
people up and “de-natifres” them, what-
ever that might be. The Elizabethan
Theatre Ball committee had a preview of
this show on'Tuesday night and followed
it up with a champagne-supper in the
green-room, all very bright and pleasant.
* ☆ ☆
Observed that Pixie O'Harris managed
her voluminous gown and four-foot wide
headdress with regal poise when she
appeared as the Queen in “The Vagabond
King,” put on by the Australian Light
Opera Company at Rockdale. This whole
production was fresh and efficient, with
several good performances, handsome
Russell Smith as Villon and Ross Warr
as the comedian making a particularly
strong impact. Mina Shelley was the
producer. John Gardiner created the
character of Louis XI very effectively.
v- & «
Mrs. E. W. Woodward, wife of our
new Governor, made her first public
appearance “on her own” at the 57th
annual meeting of the Sydney District
Nursing Association, held at the Presby-
terian Church Hall, Glebe, during the
week, and said that, for that reason, and
also because of her former close associa-
tion with the organisation’s counterpart
in Melbourne, she will retain an
especially warm place in her heart for
the district nurses.
Miss Elizabeth Teece, who presided,
said that the general public did not know
enough about the work being done by
these nurses, who bring professional care
to the aged and infirm all over the metro-
politan area. Dr. Lilley, chairman of the
Hospitals Commission, pointed out that
to provide the same service that the
district nurses provided a 700-bed
hospital would have had to be built.
Major-General the Reverend C. A.
Osborne was guest-speaker at the meet-
ing ; his subject, Vietnam, and his
experiences there as an unofficial observer
at the conference of the Asian People's
Anti-Communist League.
a a
Mr. Gunnar Myrdal, the eminent
Swedish economist and Dyason Lecturer
for 1957, was guest-of-honor at a recep-
tion given by the Australian Institute of
International Affairs at the Rural Bank,
when Dr. John Andrews and Mrs.
Andrews received the guests. Mr. Myrdal
said that the Scandinavian countries had
always regarded themselves as in contest
with Australasia in the social-welfare
race (who can get the lowest infant-
mortality, etc.); he was astonished to find
that we did not seem to have the same
feeling here. He added, with a twinkle:
“Australia has gone further in some
respects, though. In Sweden we can
still get a dinner after eight-o’clock!”
V V
Scheduled for Monday, September 23,
this year, the International Pageant and
Fashion Parade in aid of St. Joseph’s
Children's Home, Croydon, will include
a musicale and afternoon-tea. Organisers
include president Mrs. C. M. Guinev,
with vice-presidents Mrs. E. Bateman and
Mrs. Paul Nelson.
☆ ☆ ☆
The smartest, though not the most
becoming, make-up at present is the
pallid-look, for which large, darkened
eyes must look out from a practically
colorless face. Now there is news from
abroad that lilac lipstick is on its way.
Truly, the once-comic lines of Pyramus
may soon become quite serious: "These
lily lips, that cherry nose, these yellow,
cowslip cheeks!”
# # V
Sixteen debutantes will be presented to
the Governor, Lieut.-General E. W.
Woodward, and Mrs. Woodward at the
Lady Mayoress’s Ball, to be held at the
Town Hall on Friday, September 20. The
proceeds of this ball benefit eight
charities, six of which receive a propor-
tion each year, while two are nominated
at the Lady Mayoress’s discretion.


The Queen’s slimming diet, “worked
out for her by a Harley Street specialist,”
seems to eliminate all oils, fats, sweets,
alcohol and most carbohydrates. Surely
it does not take a Harley Street specialist
to work that one out!
MELBOURNE
The Irish fashion-parades opened with
a gala presentation and dinner in the
Myer Mural Hall, and net proceeds were
donated to the Royal Women’s Hospital.
Each woman guest present received a
shamrock-shaped green box in which
were a gilt-encased lipstick and small
cakes of soap. Cocktails were served in
the foyer and annexe in a drawing-room
setting of gold furniture with a decor of
green, gold and grey. Large urns were
filled with spring flowers. .
There was a large official party. Lady
Herring, wife of Lieut.-Governor Sir
Edmund Herring, was accompanied by
Mrs. John Buckland and received by Mr.
and Mrs. A. H. Tolley and Mrs. Sidney
Baillieu Myer. Others in the official
party were Minister for Trade and
Customs Mr. McEwen and Mrs.
McEwen ; Minister for Labor Harold
Holt and Mrs. Holt (her flame-colored
silk frock worn under a chartreuse silk-
shantung theatre-coat); Irish Charge
d’Affaires Mr. W. Butler and Mrs.
Butler; Transport Minister Sir Arthur
Warner and Lady Warner (her gown of
white satin hand-painted in a design of
green flowers and leaves) ; the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs.
F. W. Thomas) ; Sir Frank and Lady
Selleck ; and Miss K. A. Syme (president
of the Royal Women’s Hospital).
Among those who attended were Mrs.
Ray Joseph, Mrs. C. Jansen, Miss L.
Wightman (whose gown of brown-and-
gold shot-satin was worn with a sable-
edged matching-stole), Mrs. David Lloyd
Jones (whose short bouffant frock of
ruched black chiffon was mounted on
pink), Mrs. John Grimwade (her gown
of pale sea-green satin topped with a tiny
white ermine jacket) and Mrs. Gladys
Myer (whose sheath-frock was of silver-
birch guipure-lace).
☆ ☆ ☆
Prettiest frock seen at the first night of
“The Chalk Garden” was the short, full-
skirted pale Parma-violet wool frock
worn by Pru Elder. A matching velvet
sash and bunch of Parma violets and a
tiny muff completed the ensemble. Wear-
ing attractive American-beauty wool
coats over simple frocks, Angela and
Robin Tait were with their parents, the
Gordon Taits. Mrs. S. A. Aarons wore
an attractive royal-blue pleated chiffon
frock under a full-length dyed-ermine
coat. Mrs. A. Berger, wife of the Austrian
Consul, favored a gown of gold lame with
a white ermine stole.
At the party which followed the per-
formance were Sir Frank Tait and Lady
Tait (her lovely sheath-frock of white
guipure-lace worn under an aqua-green
velvet coat which had a white ermine
collar); Mrs. Harry Scott and her son
and daughter-in-law, the Alan Scotts;
Mrs. Eric Wahlquist (whose gown was of
pink-and-gold striped silk-organza); Mr.
and Mrs. David Martin ; Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Martin; Mrs. Archie Robbins (her
black tulle gown was mounted on Kelly-
green taffeta); Mrs. Simon Fraser and
Mrs. E. L. G. Cresswell; Mrs. Rupert
Downes, Mrs. Jim Campbell and Mrs.
John Grey.
* ☆ ☆
The R.A.A.F.’s principal chaplain, Air-
Commodore R. C. Russell, officiated at
the marriage of his daughter Margaret
Joy to Barry Rothwell Scott at the
Toorak Presbyterian Church. Group-
Captain G. Thompson gave away the
bride, whose gown of white delustred
satin had a bell-shaped skirt which
featured an embroidered front-panel and
a graceful train. A band of satin held
the French-tulle veil, and she carried a
posy of lily-of-the-valley. Janet Currie
and Norma Jones ’maided in frocks of
old-rose embroidered taffeta, with their
shoes and tiny hats in the same toning.
They carried long-stemmed pink carna-
tions. The bridegroom, who is the only
son of Mr. and Mrs. E. R. Scott, of
Toorak, had David Colquhoun (Albury)
as best man. Richardson Pearson was
groomsman. The reception was held at
the Hotel Windsor.
Mrs. F. W. Thomas, the new Lady
Mayoress, was born of Scottish parents
in Kenya and went to school in Scotland.
After spending a year at the Paris
Sorbonne, she went on to Edinburgh
University and took her M.A. degree,
majoring in Classics and French. After
working in the British Foreign Office’s
codes and ciphers division she went in
a similar capacity to the British Embassy
in Washington, where she met her hus-
band, who was then Group-Captain in
the R.A.A.F. and attached to the Aus-
tralian Mission. Six months later they
married, and at the end of 1944 she
came to Melbourne. The Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress have three sons:
12-year-old twins Robert and Freddie
and 10-year-old lan. Tall and slender,
with short, brown, curly hair, Mrs.
Thomas is a smart dresser.
When in 1929 the 4000-year-old tomb
of Queen Saubad was opened in what
was then Mesopotamia a tricorne-shaped
hat was found in it ; a copy of this, made
of black straw and trimmed with gold,
was included in the hat-parade shown at
Mrs. Lindsay Mildred's Malvern home
in the combined luncheon and parade
organised by the Kurneh auxiliary of the
Queen Victoria Hospital. Mrs. Mildred
made the hat at the suggestion of Mons.
De Kampi, who showed his hats in the
parade and donated one to sell for the
auxiliary. Twin sisters Elizabeth and
Patricia Mildred, Mrs. Gwen Potter, Mrs.
lan Miller, Mrs. John Summons, Mrs.
John Forster and Madame Stonelake
were the mannequins. Among the 130
guests were Lady Hyde (vice-president
of the auxiliary), Mrs. Keith Taylor (hon.
sec.), Mrs. Frank Wilson (hon. treasurer),
Mrs. David Elder, Lady Holyman, Mrs.
Bruce Wenzel, Mrs. Percy Northrupp,
Mrs. Bill Lempriere, Mrs. Bill Plant and
Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh.
CANBERRA
To entertain the president of the
Associated Country Women of the
World, Mrs. A. M. Berry, 0.8. E., the
Canberra branch of the C.W.A. gave a
reception at University College Hall.
Mrs. Berry, a Queenslander from Charle-
ville, is recently back from a conference
in Ceylon and has represented Australia
in 28 countries during her four years’
world-presidency. Patroness Dame Pattie
Menzies was among the official party
welcomed by the Canberra president,
Mrs. R. Lewis, and the secretary, Mrs.
R. Balsom. Countries represented at the
reception were Great Britain, by Lady
Carrington, wife of the U.K. High Com-
missioner, and Canada (where the Country
Women’s movement was founded in
1896) by Mrs. D. M. Cornett, wife of the
First Secretary of the Canadian High
Commission.
Mrs. Berry addressed the gathering and
was tended a vote of thanks by the
C.W.A. group president, Mrs. L. Davis,
of Gunning, supported by Miss M.
Mould, of Cooma.
☆ ☆ ☆
A gay and friendly cocktail-party was
given at the Embassy residence by the
German Ambassador and Mrs. Walther
Hess. To receive the guests with her hus-
band the hostess wore an attractive slim-
skirted frock in green-and-black patterned
brocade. Members of the Embassy noted
were Dr. and Mrs. Burchard ; Dr. and
Mrs. Blank; Dr. and Mrs. Richter;
Baron and Baroness von Groll and Mr. G.
Block. Also among the guests were Dr.
and Mrs. Pat Calvert, she sporting a
suntan fresh from her just-completed
Honolulu holiday ; Sir William and Lady
Dunk ; and Mr. and Mrs. R. W. C.
Anderson.


Promptly Repaid
Short Story by JOHN CARRINGTON
Tony marsden
squinted through the
bright rays of sun at
the tall young man
beckoning to him from the side
of the road.
“Shall we give him a lift,
dear?” he asked his wife Fay.
“Please yourself, darling.”
Marsden slammed on the
brakes of the car and halted
beside the stranger.
“Can we give you a lift?”
“I’d be much obliged if you
Would,” replied the stranger.
Marsden opened the rear
door and the young man eased
his long body into a comfor-
table position on the back
seat.
“This is a bit of luck. Not
too many motorists will give
you a lift around these parts.”
“Going far?” asked Mars-
den, studying the tanned, boy-
ish face of his passenger in the
rear-vision mirror. “My wife
and I are having a weekend on
the Blue Mountains, and we’ll
be glad to take you as far as
Katoomba.”
“That’ll be a great help.
Matter of fact I’m going into
the country to look for a job.
Things have been a bit tough
in the city lately, and the
factory I was working in had to
close down. The beginning of
the slump they’re all talking
about, if you ask me.”
Marsden changed gear for
the first steep hill at the foot
of the Blue Mountains and
thought of his own comfort-
able, well-paid job in a city
office. He always looked for-
ward to these monthly jaunts
up to Katoomba with Fay ; the
change of surroundings and the
relaxation helped to put his
business problems in true per-
spective.
The stra n g e r’s voice
interrupted his thoughts. “Well,
I hope the weather is as nice
down in the Riverina as it’s
been in Sydney lately.”
“Is that where you’re go-
ing?” asked Fay.
“Yes; I think I might be
able to get some work on one
of the properties in the dis-
trict. I believe there’s a big
fencing job on at Biroo Downs
station.”
“Hard work,” remarked
Marsden.
The stranger laughed, and
ran his fingers through his
thick, curly hair. “Yes, I
suppose you’re right, but it
won’t be anything new to me:
I was brought up on a farm.”
Marsden pulled out a packet
of cigarettes and offered one
to the stranger. “What’s your
particular line of work? I’m
in an office myself.”
“Oh, I suppose you’d call me
a jack-of-all-trades,” said the
young man, drawing deeply on
his cigarette. “When I left the
farm at sixteen, I took on
dozens of different jobs: rail-
way-fettler, gardener, wharfie —
in fact, just about everything
you could think of. I couldn’t
settle down. I ended up join-
ing the Army, and volunteered
to go across to Korea.”
“I believe our boys suffered
terrible hardships over there,”
said Fay sympathetically.
“Yes, it was certainly no
picnic. It wasn’t the fighting so
much as the country itself.
Korea is one of those bleak,
mountainous places that get on
your nerves after a while. The
Diggers have a word for it,” he
added with a grin. “Anyway, I
was only a year there, when I
was discharged with a gammy
leg—shrapnel in the thigh.”
“How dreadful,” murmured
Fay.
“Oh, it doesn’t - bother me
much now. It hurts occasion-
ally, but I’m still good for a
hard day’s work.”
TCCARSDEN swore softly to
himself as a low-slung
sports-car shot around a bend
on the steep, winding road and
almost collided with his car.
“These confounded weekend
drivers.” He turned to the
stranger.
“Look, I don’t want you to
think I’m speaking out of
turn, but is there anything 1
can possibly do to help you?
I mean . . . well . . . what I
really mean is that you
obviously haven’t much money,
otherwise you wouldn’t be try-
ing to hitch-hike your way
down to the Riverina. If I
could give you some money
to”
“Thanks very much, but I
couldn’t possibly accept money
like that,” interrupted the
stranger, squirming uncom-
fortably. “Please don’t mis-
understand me ; I appreciate
the gesture, but it’s just that I
prefer to work for any money
I get.”
Fay broke the awkward
silence that followed. “1 know
how you must feel about this,
but please accept my husband’s
offer. We can afford the
money, and certainly won’t miss
it.”
The young man looked ner-
vously at Marsden. “It’s very
good of you people to treat me
like this because, after all, fm
a complete stranger. If I do
take your money, it’ll have to
be a loan.”
“Nonsense,” said Marsden,
as he pulled a crumpled pound-
note out of his pocket. “We’ll
be in Katoomba in five
minutes’ time and I’ll drop you
off at the station.”
The young man produced a
small notebook and pencil.
“If you'll give me your address,
I'll return the money as soon as
I can.”
“All right, son, if you insist,
but it's really quite un-
necessary. We Jive at Hurst-
ville and the address is 74
Carlton Crescent.”
Marsden manoeuvred the
car past the heavy traffic
pouring out of Katoomba.
“Well, here we are,” he said,
pulling the car into the curb.
“That’s the entrance to the
station, on the right.”
The stranger climbed stiffly
out of the back. “I'm not much
good a,t expressing my feelings,
but 1 can assure you I’m really
grateful for your help—thanks
very much.”
“That’s all right, and the
best of luck.”
Marsden let out the clutch
and the car moved into the
traffic. “I hope that pound 1
gave Him will be enough.
These blokes that have fought
in a war deserve all the help
they can get; especially when
they’ve been as unfortunate as
that poor kid.”
“Yes,” said Fay softly, “and
he was very young—only about
nineteen or twenty, I’d say.”
The car swung through the
gates of the big, comfortable-
looking hotel on the outskirts
of Katoomba. “I hope we’re
in time for dinner. This
mountain air gives one quite an
appetite.”
AN the following evening
Marsden helped his wife
into the car and stacked their
luggage in the boot.
“Well, it’s all over—no
sooner here than back again.”
“Never mind, dear,” said
Fay, as she settled back in her
seat, “we’ll be back for another
helping in four-weeks’ time.
Did you notice that ridiculous
hat Mrs. Cartwright was wear-
ing at the golfcourse this
afternoon? She’s really quite
charming when . . .
The car moved off slowly
and Marsden fell into deep
thought. He never tried to con-
centrate on his wife’s conversa-
tion when he was driving at
night. They joined the long
line of holiday traffic return-
ing to Sydney on the Great
Western Highway. They’d be
lucky to get home before
twelve, he thought ruefully.
Three hours later, with a sigh
of relief, he turned down a side-
street for Hurstville. It had
been a long, tiring journey and
he could barely keep awake.
He glanced at his wife. She
was fast asleep.
“Wakey, wakey, darling,
we’re nearly there.”
Fay yawned and stretched
herself. “I must have been
sleeping. Where are we,
Tony?”
“Hurstville.”
“Oh, we re nearly home. I
do hope the milkman hasn’t
forgotten . . . He did last
time.”
Marsden pulled up in front
of a large brick house. ‘Til put
the car in the garage while you
open the front door.”
tIE was closing the garage
door when he heard a
scream. Stumbling across some
loose gravel, Marsden ran
frantically down the garden
path and up the front steps into
the house. His wife was stand-
ing in the hall, her face in her
hands.
“Fay . . . Fay, what's the
matter? What happened?”
“Oh, Tony, look at the place
—we’ve been robbed! ”
Marsden put his arm around
his sobbing wife and glanced
over her shoulder into the
sitting-room. The room was in
chaos.
“They’ve taken everything!
Everything we possess! ”
shrieked Fay. “Eve been
through all the rooms and
there’s not a thing left: all my
furs, our cutlery and linen—
they haven’t left a thing!”
Marsden walked into the
sitting-room. His eyes roamed
over the upturned chairs and
tables until they rested on the
sofa.
Pinned neatly to the back was
a crumpled piece of paper —ft
pound-note.


Legal Notice
Pursuant to an Order of the Supreme
Court of Victoria made in the action
1955 No. 1551 in which THE PUBLIC
TRUSTEE is Plaintiff and JOHN
HENRY REMINGTON is Defendant the
persons claiming to be next of kin (as
brothers or sisters of JAMES CUM-
MING HILL hereinafter mentioned or
as children of brothers or sisters of the
said JAMES GUMMING HILL) to
MARION CUMMING DOUGLAS late of
880 William Street West Melbourne in
the State of Victoria boarding house
keeper deceased (the daughter of the
said JAMES CUMMING HILL and
MARY ANN HILL formerly PEART
who were married at Launceston Tas-
mania on 14th September 1864) living
at the time of the death of the said
MARION CUMMING DOUGLAS on 30th
June 1950 or claiming to be the legal
personal representatives of such of the
Said next of kin as are now dead are
by their solicitors on or before the 7th
day of October 1957 to come in and
prove their claims at the office of the
Master of the Supreme Court Law Courts
Melbourne or in default thereof they will
be peremptorily excluded from the
benefit of the said Order The 14th day of
October 1957 at 11 o’clock in the fore-
noon at the said office is appointed for
adjudicating upon the claims. DATED
the 15th day of August, 1957.—ER1C
S. VANCE, Master of the Supreme
Court.
MESSRS. DESMOND FITZGERALD
CAREY & MORAN, of 396 Flinders
Lane, Melbourne, Solicitors for th*
Plaintiff.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
actually is in them, the general
guidance he adds in his intro-
ductions and notes sets him fair
in the forefront of the battle,
not as Uriah but as the most
formidable warrior to enter the
field up to now. The reader of
his line-by-line translation of
the scrolls, in The Scriptures of
the Dead Sea Sect (Seeker and
Warburg), will have to bend
over backwards to find any-
thing there to support the more
fanciful theories, or to counter
Gaster’s own sharp salvo:
There is in them no trace of any
of the cardinal theological con-
cepts—the incarnate Godhead,
Original Sin. redemption through
the Cross and the like—which make
Christianity a distinctive faith.
In between translating the
various scrolls, Gaster keeps up
a continuous bombardment
with that sort of ammunition,
fighting clean and sparing no-
body. Of the quality of his
translating, a prose example
from the scroll giving “The
Manual of Discipline” for the
brotherhood:
They are concertedly and in all
their pursuits to practise truth,
humility, righteousness, justice,
charity and decency, with no one
walking in the stubbornness of his
own heart or going astray after
his heart or his eyes or his fallible
human mind.
And in verse:
Shapen of clay and kneaded with
water, -
a bedrock of shame and a source of
pollution,
a cauldron of iniquity and a fabric
of sin,
a spirit errant,, wayward and witless,
distraught by every just judgment—
what can I say that hath not been
foreknown,
or what disclose that hath not been
foretold ?
The scrolls are not always
on those elevated levels: some
of “The Manual of Discipline,”
of a less-solemn sound, might
have its points for Canberra: —•
Anyone who interrupts his
neighbor in a public session shall
be m,ulcted [of the communal
rations, apparently] for ten days.
Anyone who lies down and goes
to sleep at a.public session is to be
mulcted for thirty days.
And for the Visitor’s
Gallery:
It’ a man spit into the midst of a
public session, he shall be mulcted
for thirty days.
As a final illustration, Gaster
himself with this full broadside
at the “Essene theory,” and let
the bits fall where they may:
....it must be stated emphati-
cally—particularly in view of
recent exaggerated claims —that the
Dead Sea Covenanters (or what-
ever we may choose to call this
community) were in no sense
Christians and held none of the
fundamental theological doctrines
of the Christian faith.
It has been asserted, for in-
stanee, that the several references
in the Scrolls to the “right teacher”
all refer to a single historical
Teacher of Righteousness—a proto-
type of Jesus—and that a passage
In one of them which speaks
of his having been “persecuted”
but having subsequently
“appeared” to the community on
the Day of Atonement foreshadows
the Christian doctrine of the
suffering and resurrected Saviour.
Even, however, if the interpreta-
tion were correct (which is very
doubtful) this would still be poles
apart from the Christian belief
that the crucified Master was God
incarnate Who by His passion re-
moved a sinfulness inherent in man
through a pristine fall from grace.
Of this basic doctrine of Christian-
ity there is not a shred or trace
in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
Other essential doctrines are also
missing. There is, here, for in-
stance, no vestige of the idea of
Original Sin. On the contrary, the
idea is affirmed constantly in the
“Book of Hymns” that every man
is endowed at birth with the
charisma of knowledge and dis-
cernment and that any sinfulness
which he incurs is due only to
his individual neglect of these gifts
and to his individual submission
to, or entrapment by, the domina-
tion of the evil impulse (Belial).
Moreover, because sin is individual
and not the inherited lot of man,
and because it is incurred by his
own personal disposition, it can be
removed also by his own individual
experience. Once he “sees the
light” by the exercise of his own
God-given powers, he is out of
darkness. In such a system, since
there is no concept of original,
universal sin, there is obviously
no place f#r universal vicarious
atonement. Men suffer their indi-
vidual crucifixions and resurrec-
tions; there is no Calvary.
Theorising and the rest of it
apart, what you get through
Gaster’s entry into this now
rather free-for-all Battle of the
Bible is the amazingly real and
visible presence of that old
dedicated brotherhood, walled
in their intense, devoted,
monastery world ; a world to
themselves, and a strange one,
too, to have come out now at
the bid of a pebble tossed into
one of their caves,
Of course the fight will still
go on . , .
It was decided to send the
shire chairman and clerk south
to see if T.A.A. could arrange
alternative finance, or, if not,
to recommend Ansett’s offer to
the Minister for Local Govern-
ment. Meanwhile Ansett’s
decided on a bold stroke. Their
Convairs were to land by July
1, and land they would—if
the Proserpine Council would
agree to Ansett’s improving the
’drome entirely at their own
expense. No confusion of
loans and so forth. But
Ansett’s did request a 10-year
lease on the area.
It was a gilt-edged offer;
yet once again a section was
roused to a fury of protest.
Monopoly! That dread word,
often so true but so often
astray, rang through the
district. The ’drome that was
showing a loss of nearly £9OO
a year, a project to be
abandoned, blossomed over-
night to . become a prized
possession, never to be allowed
to fall into the greedy, grasp-
ing hand of Monopoly !
Amid a buzz of controversy
the chairman and clerk flew
to Brisbane and drew up a case
to present to Minister for Local
Government E. J. Walsh,
recommending his acceptance
of the plan. To quote the dele-
gates’ report:
The Minister was exceedingly
helpful in resolving on this proposal
and made valuable suggestions for
improvements to the terms of the
proposed agreement.
Came the final paradox of
this unique aerodrome. While
the Minister of a somewhat
Socialist Government was
giving his approval to the
taking-over of a complete air-
field by a private company,
a telegram from the “capitalist”
Country-party member for
Whitsunday arrived, objecting
to Ansett’s being given full
rights to the airport. However,
this member was probably mis-
informed, and most likely now
agrees with the final conditions
for the take-over, which are
that Ansett Airways will
1. Build at its own expense a
modern passenger-terminal on the
Proserpine aerodrome, such build-
ing to remain the property of
Ansett Airways, but the Proserpine
Shire Council may exercise an
option at the end of the 10-year
lease to purchase such buildings at
the cost of their construction.
2. Ensure that the. interests of
the Proserpine public and alt
travelling public are protected at
all times.
3. Have complete control of the
aerodrome and permit T.A.A. and
other operators to use the aero-
drome, but be entitled to charge
these other operators a landing-fee
not exceeding the amount approved
by the Department of Civil
Aviation.
4. Encourage additional airlines
to use the airport, particularly
those operating in the western por-
tion of the State, and on the
northern section to New Guinea.
5. The cost of electrical instal-
lation to the aerodrome will not
be the responsibility of, nor at the
expense of, the Proserpine Council.
6. Be responsible for all the ex-
penses and for maintaining the
aerodrome, and undertake the
maintenance in accordance with
the requirements of the Department
of Civil Aviation.
7. Receive all landing-fees and
any other source of revenue from
the Department of Civil Aviation.
8. Pay to the Proserpine council
an amount to meet the cost of
interest and redemption on old
loans.
This last clause is remarkable.
Ansett’s will even pay off the
existing debt on the airfield!
A jubilant chairman and clerk
returned home with a cheque
for £5OOO, for preliminary work
on the strip. Ansett’s did not
want to wait even for comple-
tion of formalities to allow
them to start work themselves.
They poured immediate
thousands into local, coffers,
and got on with the job.


medical science. It is as ridiculous as
being a specialist in portraiture who
is good on ears but no good on noses,
or to be a landscape-painter who can
paint oaks but is absolutely hopeless
on gumtrees. If there is one thing that
is certain, says Dr. Walker, it is that
the patient is a person, but after the
specialists in a well-organised clinic
have finished taking a patient to pieces
be may never be seen again as a
complete person. The only sort of
doctor who ever saw a patient as a
person was the G.P. or the old-
fashioned family-doctor, but so many
inroads have been made on him by
the specialists that he is in danger of
disappearing altogether, and the
British Health Act is hastening the
process.
Another Penguin volume with the
subject of which the present writer is
not unacquainted is The Art and Archi-
tecture of Russia, but his acquaintance
was limited to a view from a carriage-
window on a fourteen-day journey
from Vladivostok to Petrograd in the
days before the Revolution.
Nothing in the volume indicates that
Russian architecture has altered. There
are the turnip and onion domes of the
cathedrals, churches and monasteries
of Kiev, Novgorod and Moscow which
antedated the Tartar occupation; the
baroque introduced by Peter the Great
after his excursion into Western
Europe; and the pseudo-Renaissance
of Catherine the Second which filled
Petersburg with enormous classical
buildings. There is the vast accumu-
lation of Byzantinian icons which
become more and more academic.
Russia produced an extraordinary spate
of great writers, solely through the
influence of Pushkin, but it hasn’t as
yet produced a great painter.
If only because it was reviewed on
the Red Page when it first came out,
the reviewer might also claim some
acquaintance with The /Esthetic
Adventure, a Pelican by William
Gaunt. This charming book tells the
story of the so-called /Esthetic Move-
ment of the ’eighties and brings in
Whistler and his famous contest with
Ruskin, and Oscar Wilde and his trial
for homosexuality, and recounts the
controversies which raged around them.
The writer brings to life the artists and
writers of the period and their various
obsessions and the society that revolved
about them, which either imitated them
or reviled them.
It was the period in English history
which is colloquially known as the
Naughty ’Nineties. In the ordinary
sense there was nothing extraordinarily
naughty about the ’nineties. Melbourne
and Sydney, 1957, are probably just
as naughty in that sense. There is no
essential difference between the can-
can introduced from Paris to London
in the 'nineties and the strip-tease act
imported from America in 1957, and
there are plenty of long-haired artists
in corduroy trousers and scarlet berets
sitting in the cafes of King’s Cross
and St. Kilda imagining themselves to
be tortured Gauguins, Van <3oghs,
Baudelaires and Verlaines today, as
there were in Paris and London in the
’nineties.
The fact that protrudes from Mr.
Gaunt’s engaging history is that there
was no /Esthetic Movement in the
’nineties. Wilde and Whistler said a
few significant things in their various
media: the rest was fashionable uproar,
as W. S. Gilbert sagely observed.
F.S.
Practical Myths
Aborigines have been exploited on
so vast a scale as to be a bit of a bore
unless they are presented, as Roland
Robinson presents them, telling legends
in which ritual killers are mixed up
with cricket-matches and tribal districts
are limited by railway-lines; or in
studies such as Ursula McConnel’s
Myths of the Munkan (Melbourne
University Press), where the scientific
method, with its introduction, presen-
tation of facts and conclusion, is as
satisfying as its subject-matter is full of
meat.
Miss McConnel’s field is the lower
east coast of Cape York Peninsula,
from the Edward up to the Archer
River. A map on page xviii of the
preface shows how densely this is popu-
lated by the ghostly cult-centres,
Crocodile, Barramundi, Anteater,
Shooting-star, Eagle-hawk, Bloodwood-
flower, Swamp - turtle, Dillybag,
Banana-bird, Water-lily, etc., which
the uninitiated traveller might never
suspect, and which are so important to
the 36 stories in the book.
The point of departure for most of
these stories is that the cult-animal
or plant began by being human:
“Min Kanmula and Min Po:kauwan,
the cuscus possums, were once going
about as a man and a woman”; “Once
the hard yam was going about as a
woman ” The stories then explain
the process by which the leading
characters became what they are today;
and not merely, Miss McConnel points
out, for the pleasure of storytelling.
A story will often perpetuate a recipe:
The elder brother said: “You
cook the stingray while I sing!”
The younger brother picked up
firewood and kindled it. He pulled
out the liver and laid it on a piece of
tea-tree bark. Then he placed the
fish on the coals to cook, turning it
over on each side with his hand.
Then he ran for tea-tree bark and
stripped off hibiscus bark for string.
Picking up the fish he laid it on the
bark, pulled off the skin, removed
the bones for use as spear-barbs,
laid the heart and liver on the paper-
bark and pressed the cooked flesh
round them again and again, with the
heart and liver inside. Then, tearing
off a strip of paper-bark, he tied up
the flesh in the bark and buried it
under the ashes to cook.
Besides teaching cookery, the stories
inculcate good manners; in a manner
strangely reminiscent of the instructions
in Turbervile’s “Booke of Hunting”
(1576) on how a hart should be cut up
and distributed when the Prince
(Queen Elizabeth I) is present at the
kill:—
Then shall the huntsman take his
knife in hande agayne and breake up
the Deare in this sorte... .Firste he
shall take out the tongue, and put
•it upon the Forke, for it appertaineth
to the Prince or to the chief person-
age.... this beyng done, he shall
first take out the right shoulder with
his shoulder knyfe, the which per-
taineth to the huntsman who
harbored him... .The necke and the
chyne beyng taken -from the sides,
reserve the sides for the Prince, the
necke for the Varlet of the kennel,
and the chvne for the Varlet that
keepes the bloude hounde.
In the same way Miss McConnel's
blackfellows go to work on a cooked
wallaby:—
They tear off the skin. The
children eat the meat off the skin....
First they pull off one leg ; now the
other leg. Now they tear the ribs off
the backbone. The son carries the
foreleg and ribs to his mother ; to
his father he carries the lower part
of the back with the meat on it and
the tail. He gives one child a leg ;
the other he eats himself. His
mother shares her portion with the
younger children.
That is from the waterlily story with
its stirring battle when Mai Arika,
root of the swamp waterlily, hit Mai
Tu:'a. root of the blue lagoon waterlily,
on the head with her yamstick—the
Macks are like the Greeks, who. says
Robert Graves, valued the asphodel for
its root, which was to them as the
poiato is to us.
Old as the ages, they are as modem
as the most modern of our sex-change
scandals; in at least two of their stories
their theory of the Creation is the story
of a man who performed an operation
upon his sleeping brother by night, and
in the morning informed the astonished
lad that he has become a woman and
a wife. With such explanations goes a
great deal of implicit tribal-law on
degrees of relationship, taboo, etc.
The book has plates of the blacks
today and some of their ritual arrange-
ments of stones; diagrams illustrating
funeral customs, methods of making
bark-canoes, shapes and ways of swing-
ing bull-roarers, and so on, as described


RIBBONS IN HER HAIR
by DOROTHY LUCIE SANDERS
Author of “WATERFALL”
In this latest novel about the now famous Montgomery family the author
tells the story of the beautiful and tempestuous Laura, cousin of Theodora, who
is the storyteller. We meet the entire enchanting family, feel for them in their
ups and downs and are introduced to their Irish Cousin Danny who is to play
such a large part in the lovely Laura’s life.
Obtainable from all Booksellers
Retail Price in Australia 18 /9d. (Postage extra)
HODDER AND STOUGHTON LIMITED
SCANDALS OF SYDNEY TOWN
by Fit ASK CL USE
In his new book, Frank Clune vividly recounts the notorious sequence of scandals and law
cases that happened between 1880 and 1910—such cases as the Mount Rennie Outrage, the
Buttner Case, the Coningham Case, the Land Scandals. Men still remembered today
featured in these cases; men such as J. F. Archibald, John Norton, Sir Henry Parkes,
Judge Windeyer, Judge Owen, Dick Meagher and Sir George Reid ... 22/6 (Post 9d.).
Available from all booksellers and . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Mr. Moto is back again!
STOPOVER TOKYO
John P. Marquand
A brilliant new suspense story by the author of POINT OF NO RETURN
which reintroduces the mysterious Mr. Moto of Japan who is one of Mr.
Marquand’s outstanding creations, comparable to Monsieur Poirot and Lord
Peter Wimsey.
Ready
Now
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
From all
Booksellers
RADIATION: What it is and How it Affects You
Dr. Jack Shubert and Dr. Ralph E. Lapp
The sober truth about radiation
is here told for the first time for the layman.
At all booksellers 22/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
in the stories; and a foreword by Sir
William Mitchell.
Miss McConnel has not hurried into
print with her findings; the fieldwork
was done in 1928 for the Australian
National Research Council; her studies
of primitive linguistics, which no doubt
produced the spelling and curious new
letters with which she transcribes
aboriginal speech, were made at Yale
University, U.S., while she held a
Rockefeller fellowship, 1931-33. The
C.5.1.R.0. subsidised the preparation
of the book, and the Commonwealth
Scientific Publications Fund its publi-
cation —and most worthy it is of all
these noble patrons.
Reviewed Briefly
William Blake: edited by F. W.
Bateson; Poetry Bookshelf series
(Hcinemann). Selections from most of
the lyrical sections of Blake’s poems
with an introduction and copious
notes; every poem being annotated.
* * * *
7 Days to Never: Pat Frank
(Constable). A very good cloak-and-
dagger novel of Russian saboteurs put
ashore from a submarine. You see
them come ashore; then both sides of
the story are told as American 899
bombers begin to blow-up in the air:
from the point of view of the saboteurs
at work and of investigators in the
Pentagon at Washington.
* * * *
The Romantic Survival: A Study in
Poetic Evolution: John Bay ley (Con-
stable). From Coleridge to Yeats,
Auden and Dylan Thomas. A close-
wrought, thoughtful piece of criticism,
basically concerned to show how the
three modem poets have continued to
make poetry or “magic” out of every-
day life as Wordsworth and Coleridge
set out to do: Yeats by catching-up the
contemporary scene into his world of
heroic symbol, Auden by making a
“mythology” of the types and prob-
lems of the age, and Thomas by
returning, in “Under Milk Wood,” to
the poetic use of ordinary people—
Captain Cat as the equivalent, more-
or-less, of Wordsworth’s Idiot Boy.
* * * *
Bernard Shaw’s Letters to Granville
Barken edited by C. D. Purdom
(Phoenix). Most of these letters cover
the period of the Vedrenne-Barker
management from 1904 to 1911, which
pioneered so many of Shaw’s plays—
at an ultimate cost to Shaw himself of
£5250; small runs and experimental
productions. In 1911 “Fanny’s First
Play” astonished everyone by running
624 performances —the first suggestion
that Shaw would go down with the
English public. But the letters about
the earlier productions show Shaw in
the white heat of casting his own
plays, drawing diagrams of the stages
and wailing over the high cost of Ellen
Terry. How irresistibly insolent he
could be with his actresses may be
judged from a reply to Tita Brand,
who wanted a part:—
Am I Milton, or TEschylus, to find
parts for a great flouncing, super-
heroic rhapsodist like you? Can I
hang you on the wall in “Candida”
instead of Titian’s Assumption....
It is a grand thing to be like one of
Michelangelo’s sibyls..'.. Short of
boiling you in oil for several days
I don’t know how you. can be
brought within practical limits....”
Mr. Purdom joins the letters up with
a well-informed and most efficient
commentaiy.


In Home lighting...
CENTUR
THE FIELD!
WITH A BATTERY THATS
YEARS AHEAD OF
ANY OTHER IN AUSTRALIA
/
Century engineers, working closely with the greatest
battery laboratories in U.S.A., bring you this marvel-
lous new homelighting Battery.
NEW IN EVERY DETAIL—WITH NEW TECHNIQUES
—NEW CONSTRUCTION METHODS—NEW' SUPER
PERFORMANCE.
LOOK AT THESE DYNAMIC FEATURES. NO OTHER BATTERY HAS THEM:
BSILVIUM —the scientific additive
which KEEPS PLATES ACTIVE
WITH MAXIMUM EFFICIENCY;
PREVENTS GRID CORROSION.
ONLY CENTU-RY HOMELIGHT-
ING BATTERIES CONTAIN
SILVIUM.
■ TRANSPARENT . POLYSTYRENE
CONTAINER . . . you can sea
tha acid level at a glance.
■ INBUILT.GRAVITY BALL INDICA-
TORS . . . show state of clia qe
AT ALL TIMES. No man trusty
hydrometer.
■ GLASS INSULATION —gives *•«.
tained power during the BAT-
TERY'S ENTIRE LIFE.
THESE ARE THE PO W ERFU L RE ASO NS WHY CENTURY
BACKS THIS BATTERY WITH A BULLETPROOF
THREE YEARS' GUARANTEE
with SIL.VIUM
; .• & - -- - - - :
FOLLOW THE LEAD OF THOUSANDS OF SATISFIED GRAZIERS
AND STATION OWNERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
DEMAND THE BEST ... BUY THE BEST . • . BUY CENTURYI
SILVIUM Batteries are also available for all cars, trucks, tractors, etc.
DISTRIBUTORS:
yiTIV SOUTH WALKS: Century Storage Battery Co., Ltd., Birmingham St., Alexandria.
Bradley Bros. Ltd., 55-59 & 68-72 Wentworth Aye., Sydney. Grindey Ltd., 247-253 Broadway,
Sydney. Industrial Sales <i- Service (N.S.W.) Ply. Ltd., Parramatta Kd., Lidcombe. Motor
Traders Pty. Ltd., 79 Commonwealth St., Sydney. Advanx Tyre & Rubber Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Neild & McLachlan Aye., ltushcutters Bay. (Sydney Metropolitan Area.)
LOWER RIVERINA: Motor Traders {Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 515 Kiewa St., Albury.
QUEENSLAND: P. H. Phillips Battery Supplies Pty., 458 Brunswick St., Valley, Brisbane.
Plant & Plant ( Machinery ) Pty. Ltd., 323-325 Ruthven-St., Toowoomba. Samuel Allen A Sons,
itd. Towpsville. Wypcr Bros. Ltd., Bundaberg. Advanx Tyre & Motor Service, 61 Sheridan
bt., Cairns. Laurence Motor Company, Bolsover St., Rockhampton'. Corses • & Co. Pty., Ellena
bt., Maryborough. Gympie Machinery A Electrical Coy., Mary St., Gympie, Jas. Croker
Sons, Mackay.
VICTORIA: Century Storage Battery Co., Pty., Ltd.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd.
Bt., Adelaide.
Macaulay Rd„ North Melbourne.
(Sole- Concessionaires), 15 Ackland
■
/•ft
pe=Cr 11 -
(;iiAitANTi;i:i)
Til It III! YEARS
These three gravity ball
indicator* white, red
and green—are clearly
visible through the trans-
parent polystyrene con-
tainer. Their floating
position show* instantly
the Battery * state of
charge.
GET THIS FREE BOOKLET Century's new
Pott this coupon to-day to
CENTURY STORAGE BATTERY CO. LTD.,
Box 52, P.O. Alexandria, N.S.W., for your free
homellghting booklet giving complete detalie
of thie marvellous new batter*,
NAMB*
ADDRESS
/<CPG 100
WESTERN AUSTRALIA} Attwood Motors Ftp. Ltd., 22 Stirling
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: O. C. Boag Batteries, $6 Bathurst St., Hobartl 274
Brisbane St., Launceston.
NORTH AUSTRALIAI Allen Bros (Darwin'} Pty. Ltd., Darwin.
