

mm
vr*
e W
SOLERO
.SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
Buying A Used Car — page 32
Wednesday, August 21, 1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
KILLYLEAGH CASTLE IN COUNTY DOWN
KII.LYI.EAGH, on the south-western shore of Strangford Lough,
in County Down, is renowned as the birthplace in 1660 of
Sir Hans Sloane, the celebrated physician and naturalist, whose
collections formed the nucleus of the British Museum. His name is
also perpetuated in Sloane Street and Sloane Square, in London.
His collection, which included books and manuscripts as well
as natural objects, was valued at £50,000, and which he bequeathed
to the nation conditionally on the sum of £20,000 being paid to his
family. The house in which he was born has been rebuilt, but the
inscribed keystone of the doorway is preserved in the wall of the
present house at 20 Frederick Stregt.
Killyleagh, with a popidation of 1500, is an important linen
manufacturing town and a popular yachting and fishing centre for
Strangford Lough. Nearby is the imposing Killyleagh Castle,
illustrated here, which is the oldest castle residence continuously
occupied by the same family in Northern Ireland. For centuries
this castle has stood on the hill above the town of Killyleagh.
The castle was first built by the Anglo-Norman knight, de Courcy,
in the 13th century, and portions of this original castle can still be
traced in the existing building. One of the oldest parts is the
circular corner tower, which is remarkable for the fact that this
fortress was held by the O’Neills and the MacCartans and was
granted, along with the Clandeboye estate, to the Hamilton family
by James I. Near the castle is the lane with a stile on which
Lady Duffcrin based the poem “The Emigrant’s Farewell.”
No. 363: The Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt .


STORY WRITING!!
MANY STOTT STUDENTS
PAY FOR THEIR COURSE
before completing It. Jt will pay VOU to
study with STOTT’S.
Note these extracts from letters received:—
“Since I started my Course, I have had SIX-
TEEN Stories and -Articles accepted, so von see
the Course has more than PAID EUR ITSELF.”
‘1 have earned more money while taking the
Course than I paid in fees.”
“My earnings from my Writing total almost
£7O (Les. II).”
“During the past six months my Acceptances
have returned me over £200.”
“I very much enjoyed m.v Freelance Journalism
study and more than paid for the Course with
Articles accepted.”
STOTT'S CAN TRAIN YOU AT HOME
Our Literary Prospectus is sent without
obligation to all interested in Writing.
totts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlerea<:h St.,
Sydney ; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
“ CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, aud full particulars of
your Literary Courses,
MY SAME
ADDRESS . ....
(S.B. 1657) AGE
BOOKHCXTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you-fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Redd Page
HUSKY HUSKIES
Antarctic books are as much like
one another as one penguin (the bird,
not the book) is like the next, and it is
much to Robert Dovers’s credit that his
Huskies (Bell) is a bit different.
Not that there is anything wrong with
all the other Antarctic books. It is a
heroic territory and sooner or later
everybody who explores it is compelled
one way or another to do something
heroic. Dovers and his French com-
panions did that when they drove
“weasels” from Port Martin to Point
Geologie through blizzards, across
glaciers and over sea-ice so thin that
the machines kept breaking through:—
We were three days making those
thirteen miles to lie Vert. The
weasels broke through seven times.
.... The last day within the glacier
tongue was certainly the worst. We
had been stopped by bad weather and
a zone of weak ice ahead. The
visibility was limited to a few yards
but now and then in a lull in the
driving snow we could vaguely see
the blue walls of the surrounding
icebergs towering above us.
Dovers, an Australian from Port
Kembla, N. S. Wales—a war-time
commando with subsequent experience
on Heard and Macquarie Islands—des-
cribes in this book his experiences as
Australian observer with the French
Antarctic expedition of 1951-52 and
might have got his touch of difference
by describing the Frenchmen. But,
though they do come frequently into
his story, he settled for the teams of
huskies, of which he had charge.
Huskies are in many ways not nice
dogs. Maru, when he broke loose one
day, killed 150 Adelie penguins in ten
minutes, hastily slaying one after
another for the fun of it while Dovers
was hotfoot after him ; and this, it
appears, was a mere nothing to the
performance of Aspirin, who, a year
earlier at Port Martin, slew five
thousand in an afternoon, a feat that
can only be rivalled by Samson.
They are exceedingly dirty dogs.
Even at this distance, and despite the
refrigeration of the Port Martin
climate, a remarkable whiff blows
through the book from Hobbs and
Aspirin, “two indescribably filthy
Labrador types,” who had their lair
in a mass of old seal-blubber and
unclean bones in which they rolled and
snuggled until “for at least an inch
their fur was impregnated with filth.”
When opportunity offered they ate
each other’s pups. They fought
incessantly and appear to have enjoyed
not only bullying but also being
bullied:—
An unlovely creature, Nick. His
main amusement in life was bullying
Bobby, whom he had reduced to a
state of cringing, defenceless terror.
Each morning he could be seen
launching an attack on Bobby, who
instead of defending himself would
be crouched on the ground, head
between his forepaws, snarling back
half-heartedly and screaming with
pain as Nick savaged him. But as
Bobby could retreat to the length
of his chain which put him well out
of reach of Nick, he must have got
some perverse pleasure out of the
daily savaging, since he chose to put
himself in the way of it.
They are perhaps not to be blamed
for always being hungry but their diet,
when they could get at anything beyond
their official rations, was bizarre and
ferocious:—
Pomme distinguished himself at
one overnight camp by eating my
fifteen-foot sealskin whip. I came
out of the tent in the morning to
find him at the final stage of this
repast. He had managed most of his
fifteen-foot meal, and he stood there
with a dreamy expression in his eyes,
masticating gently, with the butt of
the whip still hanging sadly out of
his mouth.
The whip did not altogether agree
with Pomme; but what happened then,
and what happened after that, had
really better be left for Dovers to tell:
the Antarctic has always bred forti-
tude.
To the reader, able to take a proper
human pleasure in the misfortunes of
others, the huskies’ most engaging trick
is that of, on all possible occasions,
breaking away from the driver and,
with the sledge bounding behind them,
careering madly away over the ice,
sometimes engaging in a mass penguin-
hunt and fighting over the victims,
sometimes just tearing over the moun-
tains for the hell of it, and never on
any occasion stopping until they have
fallen over a cliff or into a crevasse;
whereupon they wait cheerfully to be
rescued. But this, however diverting
to the reader, is, so Dovers says, a
little annoying and even embarrassing
to the driver toiling after them.
Somebody, as Conrad says, has to be
the last of men; and somebody, no
doubt, also has to be the last of dogs:
the bottom-dog, in fact. And whether
the huskies’ utter hopelessness from any
civilised viewpoint arouses the reader’s
sympathy; or whether it is because of
their virtues of courage, endurance and
comedy, their usefulness to man and
their surprising friendships and loyalties
among themselves; or whether it is
because Dovers is an excellent observer
and all animals are worth observing—
and none more so than these indomit-
able half-wolves—it is a fact that by the
end of the book the reader gets as fond
of the dogs as their driver is; and
rejoices to find that the ineffable
Aspirin, he who slept in the lair of old
bones and seal-blubber, didn’t have to
be shot as was feared but survived to
go home to France, where he is now
living in most glorious retirement with
a pastrycook.
An Eye on Us
In Ten Stars South of Asia (Hale)
Don Taylor, editor of the English
magazine “New Commonwealth,” tells
the story of his trip by air to Australia,
New Zealand, Fiji and back through
the U.S. to London,
The book may well interest English
readers more than Australian, since
at the speed Mr. Taylor travels it is
hard to gain more than what must
seem only a superficial view of, say,
Sydney to Sydneysiders. Still, his
general view of Australia’s strategic
position under Asia that dominates the
book can certainly be relied upon to
awaken any dormant Australian
apprehension with the neat little chart
on page 98, a map of Australia, India,
Indonesia, China and Japan. One
little man in the middle of Australia
represents our not-ten-million people;
and the ranks of figures, each repre-
senting ten million, in those other
countries speak their very quiet and
disquieting piece.
When he comes to Brisbane he gets
down to the heart of the matter, prob-
ably the most important object of his
(i Continued on page 58)


BOX 2712, G.P.O,
“While I Live I’ll Crow”
‘PHONE B 0951
For Father 10 ONLY
“SHOPSYHTIIS” £155/16/3
Yes, we’ve just 10 wonderful
“Shopsmiths” Power Work-
shops (5 tools in 1) left at this
price (including Sales Tax)
and exclusive to A.H’s!
It takes just 10 sq. ft. floor
space and can be bought
for as little as 19/- weekly.
rrrrrrrn
. K
mm
6i H or dura” Power hit
A Tool Kit for every
handyman job, with
'saw attachment..
•/01/9H
HSUteh & Decher
UASO6 kit with
a saw attachment.
£33/12/6
Home Worhshop Outfit
Black & Decker Home
Workshop knocks hours
off all home jobs. Price
£5l
ri:
mm
44 Shermatic ”
Two speed J-" heavy
duty power tool kit.
£45/10/6
I jit
mm i
( Wmk
‘K.B.C.” Be Luxe Kit
£56/14/-


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 21, 1957
Vol. 78—No. 4045
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adam*
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
CHICKENS NOW VULTURES
THE chickens born of the United
States and Australian “Labor” policies
at the end of the war are now coming
home to roost —and they are vultures.
Both the Americans and Dr. Evatt,
that consistent follower of the Kremlin
line, were obsessed with a hatred of
British colonialism and with the myth
of Russian idealism and heroism. The
American and Australian (and a large
part of the yellow section of the
British) press were with them. The
Russians did not lose their chance. The
cry, in U.N. and elsewhere, was against
“colonialism.”
Oust the imperialist British, the
greedy Dutch, the conquering French
from their Asian and African colonies,
introduce freedom, make new countries
out of the poverty-stricken polyglot
“countries” which would become
rich and prosperous and self-reliant as
soon as the British capitalist ceased to
“batten” on them and the millennium
would be just round the corner.
So the Russians were given charge
of Manchuria and all the Japanese arms
in it and promptly used the position to
create a Communist-satellite China and
oust their benefactors. The India of
the British split in halves, and the new
free and enlightened members of
Indian democracy, whose leader estab-
lished himself with all the trappings of
a rajah in New Delhi, started slaughter-
ing themselves in border riots and
fights on religious issues.
Burma was given over to chaos and
infiltration ; Korea and Indo-China
over to war; the Philippines over to a
veiled U.S. military occupation ; the
Japanese colonies became a defensive
U.S. fortress-line, and Formosa a
danger-spot holding the armies of
Chiang Kai-shek, which are now a
provocation within sight of Communist
China, though it must be admitted a
useful fighting-force.
In the Middle East the fight (which
the U.S.A. oil-interests sought to
capitalise to oust the British and grab
the Arabian monopoly) has resulted
in throwing the Arab countries from
Egypt northward and eastward into
the Russian lap with the exception of
tough countries like Turkey and those
which realised, before it was altogether
too late, that Britain was their best
friend even in the weakened state which
the Russian-American victory in the
war had left her.
Indonesia was a flank country which
was regarded especially by the
American and “Labor” Australian
Governments as a bad example of
“colonialism.”
During the war its Communists
moved into Australia and were made
heartily welcome, were pampered and
given every aid and facility to plan in
the only country in the British Com-
monwealth where Communists could
do what they liked. And at home its
Quislings and collaborators were used
by the Japanese to the limit.
At the end of the war the Quislings,
the Communists, the Australian
Governments and unions, and to its
shame a large section of the Australian
press, joined in the game of driving the
Dutch out.
Using the backing of both East and
West, tutored by Nehru, President
Soekarno has given every chance since
then for the Communists to take over,
introducing them into the Govern-
ment. visiting Moscow, making it
possible for the Afro-Asian congress to
organise in his territory under the
direction of the cunning Nehru to play
the Communists’ game.
He has built them up until now they
have secured (at the elections within
the past few weeks) control of the east,
central and western Javan provinces,
which are virtually autonomous. They
have in addition a stranglehold on the
trade-unions and a large private army,
and they succeed in keeping the whole
of Indonesia in a ferment, pending the
time when, no doubt. Soekarno, under
licence from Moscow, will become
another Nasser, armed to the teeth by
Moscow.
Then West New Guinea and British
Borneo will become really warlike
issues.
Indonesia is going Communist as fast
as it can, with Soekarno as its bell-
wether.
Much the same conditions exist in
India. Nehru in his early days was
brought up politically on Marxism.
He naturally appealed to Dr. Evatt and
his master, Mr. Ben Chifley, who pro-
claimed him the greatest man in the
world and was prepared to accept him
as his world-leader. Dr. Evatt has
latterly voted him the greatest states-
man in the world.
Nehru has blown hot and cold, ring-
ing the changes over the years,
gradually cementing his relationships
with Red China and with Moscow,
where he was received with flattering
ovations. Lately he has allowed
Zhukov to inspect v Indian military
establishments and to make a surly
tour abusing the British to the people
of what is still professing to be a sec-
tion of the British Commonwealth on
its own terms, which are that it shall
have freedom to cause continual -dis-
ruption.
He has recently told correspondents
that he sees no danger in the fact that
Kerala State has gone Communist, and
has asked the world to believe his
impudent thesis that world-Commu-
nism has toned-down and is losing its
revolutionary complex —this just after
it has armed Syria and Egypt, is bully-
ing the Nato countries in Europe, has
ravaged Hungary with utter ruthless-
ness and is applying the iron heel in
Germany, Poland, Rumania and
Czechoslovakia.
The fact is that Kerala State has
dissolved into disorder. Planters are in
a state of siege, being driven out with
the connivance of the Government.
Police have been told to confine them-
selves to such major crimes as murder
and to leave justice to people’s action-
committees. Economic chaos is just
round the corner, as it is over the whole
of India.
The Indian civil service as a
whole is breaking-down, and the
Indian legislature within the past few
days has been passing anti-strike
ordinances through the Lower House
to enable it to keep control. The whole
of India, indeed, is in an industrial
condition —which has been becoming
worse every month as Nehru traipsed
the world spreading unrest with his
counsel —which is ripe for Communist
action. The Home Minister, Pandit
Pant, during the debate on the Essential
Services Maintenance Bill, declared
that “the income of the average India®
villager did not exceed 200 rupees [a
little less than £Al9] per annum.” He
said that of 1.700.000 Government
employees. 970.000 earned Rs 50
(£A4 14s?) a month; another 420.000
less than double that amount. Only
500 earn more than £9O a month.
Under such conditions, with the
foreign-exchange barrel almost empty,
India seems ripe for dictatorship and
ripe for Communism, which battens on
hunger and misery.
The danger is obvious. The situation
might easily arise which could only be
handled by a dictatorship of force,
which is the kind the Communists best
know how to operate in naked ruthless-
ness.
Rooseveltism, Chifley-Evattism and
the flatulent supineness of the Attlee
Government —the policies of the past
15 years have presented the Com-
munists with all the advantages.


THE FINAL PLUNGE
“After what happened in the Queensland Handicap I’m going to put my shirt on
Redistribution, all-up Opera House.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Communist Drift
Week by week the Communist advance
continues.
Now the command of Syrian “defence”
forces has been taken over by a Com-
munist. It is obvious that Moscow is
largely in control of the tired but trouble-
some country.
As a fighting-force the Syrians don’t
count for much —the national industry
is leaning on a wall following the shade
round. But this won’t worry the
Russians. They will have in it a terri-
torial foothold which commands the
Euphrates routes, puts Turkey in a sand-
wich and gives them fresh access to the
Mediterranean opposite Cyprus. The
turnover of Syria to become a satellite
would at last make the Iron Curtain bloc
a Mediterranean Power, with control
over oil-pipelines.
Apart from surrounding Turkey it
would jeopardise the positions of Jordan
and Israel, since they would have
Russian sympathisers on each side. Egypt
is no longer playing even a double game.
It is being gradually armed to the teeth
by Moscow, which is turning it, like
Syria, into a satellite as fast as it can
be done.
The pity of it is that it has been
achieved through the sheer stupidity of
those who followed the yellow press of
America and the underground saboteurs
of the British Commonwealth in demand-
ing the break-up of “colonial” empires.
A further little-publicised develop-
ment has been the victory of Dr. Jagan’s
Communist —called “People's Progres-
sive”—party in British Guiana, at the
Legislative Council elections.
As a Communist, acknowledged or
otherwise, Japan is a firmer and tougher
colonialist than any British administrator
ever was, and his first objective will
be to establish a colony of Russia similar
to Syria, full of spies and political
workers in the Americas.
There appears to be a comfortable feel-
ing in Australia that if anything
untoward happens the Americans will
take care of it. But America is again
being shown-up as a country whose
foreign policies are guided by selfishness
of great traders in oil and politics, Red-
anted by unstable members of its foreign
population, and divided in government,
so that what the President, in whom the
Legislature appears to have lost faith,
does today, Congress will undo
tomorrow.
President Eisenhower has suffered two
blows Within the past fortnight. One
was an amendment by the Senate of his
Civil Liberties Bill, which was designed
to establish racial equality, by the addi-
tion of clauses which render the courts
almost powerless to discipline those who
appear before them—it prescribes jury-
trials for persons cited for contempt by
judges.
The second (more serious for the Presi-
dent) is the reduction of his foreign-aid
Budget to £1425 million, which is about
£3BO million below his minimum accept-
able figure.
This seems to make the Eisenhower
doctrine, which so far has been mostly
a failure, a complete flop unless Congress
can be persuaded to change its mind.
Injured Innocence
Premier Cahill expressed a kind of
pained disapproval of Opposition criti-
cisms of the latest proposals for redis-
tribution of N.S.W. Assembly electorates.
His attitude was that it was awfully bad
form to criticise the work of a properly
constituted electoral commission.
In similar vein Whitlam, M.H.R., wrote
to the Sydney ‘'Herald'’ expressing sur-
prise that there should be any criticism
at the£ahill Government’s projected plan
for doing away ,with by-elections in
municipal councils elected under pro-
portional-representation. He claims that
“the plan is the fairest way of ensuring
that a vacating alderman's point of view
is still represented,” and he points out that
Tasmania, the only State Parliament
which uses p.-r., employs the same system
for filling casual vacancies.
Mr. Whitlam’s argument is sound
enough as far as it goes—but that isn’t
very far. If the Cahill Government had
a clean record on its alterations to the
Local Government Act it is probable that
no exception would be taken to the latest
proposed change. And if the Premier
could show that any redistribution during
the 16 years his party has been in office
had placed Labor in a weaker position
electorally his indignation at Opposition
complaints might be justified.
It is the background to the council
proposals that arouses suspicion. The
N.S.W. Labor Government does not
believe in proportional-representation for
Parliamentary elections, and it discovered
its liking for them in local-government
elections only four years ago when, faced
with a growing heap of allegations of
graft on the Labor-run Sydney City
Council, it decided to get rid of some of its
own aldermen. The hurried introduction.
of p.-r. a short time before polling-day,
coupled with the abolition of the ward-
system, enabled it to cancel all nomina-
tions and substitute for the previously-
endorsed Labor candidates a team hand-
picked by the A.L.P. executive. The
plan ensured Labor’s domination of the
Sydney City Council ; it also allowed
two Communist aldermen to infiltrate the
council.
Like the 1953 plan, the present one is
tailored to suit Labor's form. Two-Labor
aldermen are known to be anxious to
retire from the City Council, and unless
their replacements are Labor men the
party will lose its control of the council
—a contingency that can’t for a moment
be entertained. If Mr. Cahill resents the
suspicion his proposed change has aroused
he has only himself to blame. The fact
that the provision now thought necessary
wasn't included in the original bill
emphasises that the 1953 measure was
rushed through to serve the expediency
of the moment.
And if the Premier thinks that criticism
of redistribution is directed against the
electoral commissioners he should ask
himself whether Namoi, Ashburton,
Corowa and Lachlan disappeared from
the electoral map at the whim of the
1949 commissioners or whether the terms
of their commission left them little choice
in the matter. It can scarcely be denied
that the demise of those four seats saved
Labor's bacon at the 1950 election.
Changing Hours
Robertson and Mullens, the Mel-
bourne bookshop-proprietors who have
always been hospitable with time to those
who like to browse before they buy, took
the second step towards civilising the city
of Melbourne last week when they
announced the shop would be open in
future week-days until 6.30 p.m., an hour
later than hitherto.
Under the determination on which
the staff operates, the bookshop’s
assistants can work as late as 8 p.m. The
number of volunteers to work the new
hours (from 10 a.m.) surprised the pro-
prietors and bewildered the union, which
has steadily opposed any flexibility in
hours.
A. M. Storey, secretary of the Shop
Assistants’ Federation, darkly sees the
change as (not coining a phrase) “the
thin edge of the wedge” to get later
trading-hours generally for city shops.
If his dark suspicions prove well
founded, Melbourne will be a more
agreeable city in which to work, with a
more leisurely shopping-period, on one
night in all shops, and a thinning-out of
traffic over a longer period on other
nights (if the bookshop’s example is
followed) in the scramble from the town,
chiefly over the inadequate Yarra
bridges.
The first extension of hours in Mel-
bourne since the war was made by the
State Savings Bank, which, alarmed by
the successful launching of the Bank of
New South Wales’ savings-bank, now
God Save the Queen!
God save our gracious Queen,
Long live our noble Queen,
God save our Queen
From lords in hoary halls,
Newspaper free-for-alls,
Kind editorials,
God save our Queen!
Make her more common, and
At the same time more grand,
Than she has been ;
May she have leather lungs
And with the gift of tongues
Speak all our thoughts at once —
God save the Queen!
If being beautiful,
Good, kind and dutiful
Cannot forestall
Sneers at her speech and dress.
Slime from the gutter-press,
Whom can we praise or bless?
God save us all!


opens some branches early in the morn-
ing and late in the afternoon, a service
to depositors presumably not practical
until the advent of private enterprise into
the field.
Restricted shopping-hours since the war
have been a chronic cause of industrial
absenteeism, yet a gathering of shop-
assistants recently in Melbourne voted
even against self-service petrol-pumps,
although slot-machines are available over-
seas also for the sale of handkerchiefs,
stamps, cigarettes, matches, sweets and
other items.
The current stirring to bring in later
hours is more resolute than previous half-
hearted attempts, is better backed by
important sections of the public, includ-
ing the Housewives’ Association, and has
interested the Government.
Employers who want the change are
prepared to meet the union in later
starting and in arranging other leisure.
Staffs to whom the union has not been
able to sell its ideal of one dreary norm
for all humanity may find that changing
hours of duty in an enlivened city has
made workaday life pleasantly varied.
Wanted—an Opposition
[From "Hay Dirt"]
Is the Labor party really trying to find
an alternative leader to Dr. Evatt, and, if
so, is the objective merely to further the
ambitions of a few other elderly politi-
cians, or is it hoped to discover a new
“white hope” for the party? Is the party
attempting to analyse its own shortcom-
ings, and to frame some kind of a policy
which will recognise Australian aspira-
tions and needs, while offering scope for
opposition to the wide-ranging pro-
gramme of the Liberal-Country-party
coalition?
In other words, are the remnants of the
party, licking their wounds in Victoria
and Queensland, making a serious attempt
to shape themselves into the kind of
Opposition which is needed in the Federal
Parliament (and badly needed, as even
R. G. Casey admits), and into the kind of
group which will appeal to a majority of
Australians as an alternative Govern-
ment?
The apparent answer to these crucial
questions is "No.” There are all sorts
of rumors around that groups of the
more-or-less faithful are meeting to
thrash-out these very points, but there is
little indication that any sort of selfless
devotion to ideals and objectives is the
motivating force. Labor still holds the
allegiance of scores of thousands of
voters who have always been beguiled by
the catchcry of “Don’t vote for the
bosses,” although every election proves
that other scores of thousands recognise
the absurdity of this plea for a sectional
and prejudiced vote which takes no
account of current happenings or of “the
true welfare of the people of Australia.”
The ageing “leaders” of the Labor
party, whose names are being mentioned
by all the political columnists as possible
supplanters of the Doc., are making no
bid to rally the unattached voters whose
support would be the only factor in any
successful attempt to regain Federal
power. They may be jockeying for posi-
tion, but the highest post offering seems
to be perpetual Leader of the Opposition
—if Dr. Evatt gets out or is kicked out of
that bad eminence. They are most cer-
tainly not trying to find the sort of policy
which will win votes as a genuine attempt
to grapple with the present and future
problems of this continent and its
Equator-to-Pole territories.
It’s doubtful if the Democratic Labor
Party, with its outside affiliations and
its reported approach to the tough and
experienced Gair crowd in Queensland,
will ever be able to find the kind of money
or policy to make itself into a real rival
to Labor, of the A.L.P. brand (if that
can be defined), as the “official
Opposition.”
The "Tom Ugly" Party
It seems, now that the final results of
the Queensland election are known, that
the Queensland Labor party should
rename itself after Tom Ugly’s famous
parrot, which hadn’t a feather to fly with.
Dr. Evatt has shown a strangely
nonchalant indifference to its fate.
Southern leaders refer to it as if there
were something improper about it. And
in its own territory it has no champion,
no excuses, no anything but the certainty
that it has taken the greatest whacking
ever given to a State Labor party.
Its leader deserted it before the elec-
tion, followed by most of his Ministry
and enough M.L.A.s to form an Opposi-
tion. Its deputy-leader, Mr. Duggan, joy
and pride of the A.L.P., was defeated. Its
deputy-deputy-leader, Dr. Ditfmer, was
tossed out of his seat; also its deputy-
deputy-deputy-feader, Frankie Forde, of
Capricornia—surely the Journey’s End in
political leadership.
Outside, of course, there is the junta.
But the junta was as arrogant and
unrealistic in disaster as it was in its
approach to the election. The poll over
and its defeat and the shattering of its
party assured, it began at once to adver-
tise the extent of the disaster by forcing
the Q.C.E. to inquire into the conduct of
about 25 branches —for a beginning—
which were alleged not to have pulled
their weight in the fight, clearly showing
that there was -no loyalty even in that
part of the Labor organisation which
declared itself loyal.
These alleged dastards refused to take
the inquiry lying down. At Bundaberg,
for instance, the branch-meeting was
called in the A.W.U. headquarters, so as
to indicate to the recalcitrant and inactive
members who was really boss. But the
branch was neither intimidated nor
amused. It began the evening by passing
a string of strictures on Mr. Bukowski,
the president of the Q.C.E., culminating
in an emphatic vote of want of confidence.
Then the branch’s president moved
that Comrade Bukowski be called on to
show cause why he should not be
expelled from the A.L.P. He stated as
the grounds for the resolution, which
was carried, that Mr. Bukowski had done
great harm to the movement and brought
it into disrepute by failing to investigate
the loss of a nomination from Bundaberg
electorate by a schoolteacher, Mr. Barry
Salter.
Comrade Bukowski, who had come to
Bundaberg with the A.L.P. secretary,
Comrade Schmella, to attend the meet-
ing, was accused of conducting a “heresy-
hunt based on character-assassination”
without the full and complete knowledge
of the Q.C.E. It was alleged that one
of the victims of his attack, apart from
the 'principal branch officials, was the
State president of the A.W.U., Mr.
Goding.
There was last week talk of “purges”
in almost every large city in the State,
but the party will have other things to
think of as well.
Mr. Nicklin and Mr. Morris have taken
office with an untried but solid C.P.-
Liberal Cabinet. They wilt have, it seems,
41 seats, against the A.L.P.’s 20, Mr.
Gair’s 11 and two fndependents. Thus
they have an absolute majority over all
parties.
Poofs v. Lotteries
With an unusual touch of acerbity,
Victoria’s Premier announced that the
pools to be run in Tasmania by Aus-
tralian Poofs Pty. on Australian Rules,
Soccer and, possibly, Rugby will be
refused the right to advertise in Victoria
after the Government has passed a bill
in the forthcoming session.
Bolte’s cry of pained surprise is under-
standable from the head of a State which
in the last financial year collected £3
million from TattersaU’s and has netted
£Bi million since Victoria snatched
Tatt.'s from Tasmania three years ago,
partly by covert threats from the then
Labor Government of opening an opposi-
tion lottery in Melbourne.
Of the two forms of shilling-gambling,
there can be no question that the filling-in
of football-pool coupons is more fascinat-
ing and holds all the elements of sporting
judgment for many. English courts of
appeal have held that football-coupons
represent entries in a game of skill; and,
though a mathematician has estimated
that by “investing” 2s. a week an English-
man would probably win a £75,000 prize
once every 500,000 years, the .smaller
prizes are prolific.
The chief interest in the British Isles
pools is in selecting the winners or
losers, or those who will draw, in the
Seven-match Treble Chance, the Eight-
match Treble Chance, the Penny Points
Pool or the Penny Twelve Results, giving
you much more fun for your money than
buying a ticket in a lottery.
The weekly flutter at the risk of a
shilling or two has made the football-
pools the eleventh “industry” of Britain,
and the biggest item in postal revenue.
This new source of income could hardly
be expected to interest the rich uncles of
Canberra, but the possibility of its further
impoverishing the needy nephews in
Spring Street (and such byways) explains
the first cry of alarm.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
TT was one of those female get-togethers
at which everyone stands around
juggling tea-cups, cigarettes, plates, hand-
bags, tea-forks, gloves, table-napkins,
and small-talk. A guest by the door
caught her hostess’s eye:
Guest: “Oh, I’m terribly sorry I’m
so”
Hostess: “That’s perfectly all”
G. : “You see, 1 couldn’t get the
wretched’’-^ —
H. : “How maddening for”
G. : “And then, of course, I discovered
there wasn’t a”
H. : “Isn’t it always the”
G. : “I’ve told Mike again and again
to see that” ——
H. : “Husbands are all the”
G. : “If he’d been going”
H. : “Of course. Were you able
to?”— —
G. : “Luckily. Next-door. But then
every single' light”
H. : “They always are. Just when
you’re in a”
G. : “I thought I’d simply never” -
H. : “You aren't really a bit late, dear!
A sandwich?”
Womanly intuition dispensed with
superfluous words. It was quite obvious
that the latecomer hadn’t been able to
start her car, because there wasn't any
petrol, although she’d instructed her hus-
band to see that the tank was filled ; she’d
borrowed some from her neighbors, and
then been held up by traffic-lights, and
thought she’d never arrive. Obvious, I
should say, to any feminine ear!
Narumee.
“Pflomm”: How can elderly male
courtiers write the kind of words that
would come naturally from the mouth of
a young woman? -Why not let a com-
petent woman write the Queen’s speeches?
❖
I’ve only been in this hemi-
sphere for six years, so I managed the sub-
intermediate French-translation paper
without losing face: “In January, it is
cold. It snows. In February, it is cold.
It rains. In March, the wind blows . . .
and so on, for the twelve months. But
it seems to me that kids might be for-
given for dashing off “In January, it is
hot. The sun shines.” Is there a complete
lack of Australian textbooks?
♦t* ❖ ♦>
“Pig-islander”.: The Symphony
Orchestra visiting our country town
caused great exoftement and prepara-
tion at the hotel; conductor, arriving
first for breakfast, was asked by the
agitated waitress “Are you one of the
men from the band?”
♦♦♦ +t*
“Sister Ellell”: The Returned Sisters’
Annual Dinner in S.A. has just been and
gone, and what a nattering was had by
the hundred Old Grey Mares present!
The proprietor of the pub that always
does us proud, replying to our vote of
thanks to the staff, proffered the nicest
compliment: when he had been discus-
sing the menu with the chef earlier in the
day, he said, they came to the brandy-
sauce for the pudding—“ Reckon we’d
better use the good stuff tonight, Boss,”
said the-chef.
»*«
“Noore”: Rang Smith, Puddlebury
and Jones on some legal matter to find
that there is no longer a Mr. ; he
died years ago ; so did Puddlebury and
Jones. I can only assume the work of
the firm to be carried on by a skeleton-
staff.
❖ ❖
“Doric”: With the hoops that are now
in boom among schoolgirls, not
bowled along, but stepped into and
revolved around the waist with a body
movement, the object is to make them
whirl with the least possible hip-
action. At least, I hope so. It has been
suggested as a reducing-medium for older
women, or maybe a seducing-medium ; I
suppose it all depends on how you look
at it.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Doynest”: Felt pretty sore when the
council insisted on my replacing the home-
made wooden ramp across the gutter with
a concrete driveway which cost twenty-
five quid. I was even sorer when I learnt
that a bloke in the next street got his
driveway built for a mere couple of quid
—the accommodating foreman of a
gang laying concrete gutters in his street
being the “contractor.”
❖ ❖ *l*
“Yani”: A new type of reference is
demanded in a Brisbane “Courier-Mail”
ad.:
Wanted: Housemaid, Private Hotel.
Must be a Christian and experienced.
"It’s a girl—12-11-12."
HIRE THINGS
“Australians owed finance companies a
record £234,381,000 at June 30 for retail goods
bought on hire-purchase.”
Observe the Australian citizen
So snugly housed, so sleekly dressed;
The most self-satisfied of men,
If not exactly self-possessed.
“But who would seek,” the Salesman said,
“To own his home, his car, his wife?
The Man of Property is dead;
Ours is a more religious life ;
“Indeed, were angels, now, from birth,
Acquiring life by loan-technique,
And we can hire a heaven-on-earth
For only thirty-bob a week!”
“But will the Repossessor call?”
“Of course, sir; and you’ll bless the day!
What heavenlier heaven could befall
Than no more thirty-bob to pay?”
n.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


“Sparks”: A Queensland Liberal candi-
date set up his public-address system on
a street-corner and began with an
apology to householders generally and
mothers of young children in particular
for disturbing them with the noise of his
loudspeaker: “But, ladies and gentlemen,
it isn't my fault. If the Labor party
hadn't fought and split up, I wouldn't
have had to annoy you with these loud-
speakers. In fact, there wouldn't have
been any need for me to be here at all.”
«:♦
“Dolphin”: In Boston, U.S.A., '43, two
mates and 1 visiting a servicemen’s club
hovered about a snooker-table waiting
for someone to make a foursome. A
lovely young hostess walked up to us.
“Say, buddy,” she said, “if you guys
want a game we gals [she indicated two
others] will play.” Strictly amateur our-
selves, we nevertheless smiled condes-
cendingly as we offered them first shot.
Well, the original girl stowed her chewing-
gum, cocked one leg on the table like
Lindrum might, and promptly cleared
every ball off the table first go. With
sickly smiles we excused ourselves and
left before they challenged us again.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Kenyas ": In N.S.W., Education Week
started with processions, high-souled
speeches,, church-services and notices all
over the place calling upon pupils to re-
visit their old schools and teachers to
attend protest-meetings which might
result in a strike for more pay,
<s* ♦> *>
“W.P.T.”: For designing the National
Opera House on Sydney’s Benelong
Point architect Utzon received a prize of
£5OOO. For designing the whole city of
Canberra the Chicago architect Walter
Burley Griffin received only £1750. Even
allowing for the decreased value of
money, the designer of the Opera House
must consider himself well paid, but if
he takes a look at Griffin’s plan of Can-
berra and the results to date, he will
surely wonder if his sail-roofed opera-
house will end up with twin-funnels.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Delaney”: I noticed in the Bulletins
of July 3 and July 31 that two correspon-
dents, “Pevin” and “Fordpop,” both had
trouble with car-keys. What interested
me was the number of the keys, one
F 549 and the other FA549. Two years
ago my brother bought a Morris Minor.
This car had an English body. Twelve
months ago 1 bought an Austin A3O that
had been assembled in Australia. It
wasn’t until 1 locked my keys in the car
that. I discovered that my brother’s keys,
although for a different car, were identical.
The reason I write, is that both our keys
are numbered FA549. That was a great
coincidence, but it makes one wonder
how many more keys of the same number
there are in, say, Melbourne.
<•> »> *>
“Miss M.”: Speaking of guffaws in the
wrong place (B. 10/7/’57), when my
former schoolmate and I, born too late for
" It's the Masons and-the Smiths, Dad, and they've brought no beer”
Rudolph Valentino, went to a “Sheik”
revival the Great Lover abducted the
heroine and galloped off with her (“Lie
still, you little fool”) accompanied by our
ill-suppressed giggles ; he entered her tent
and gave her a terrific leer, whereupon she
asked, “What have you brought me here
for?” With further eyeball-rollings, he
replied “Are you not woman enough to
know?” Our self-control in shreds, we
were still filling the otherwise silent
theatre with our peals of mirth when the
lights went up to reveal the rest of the
audience, all middle-aged and elderly
women, Valentino-fans, glaring murder-
ously at us. Ah, well —I daresay some-
thing similar will happen if, in 15 years’
time, there is a revival of an Elvis Presley
film.
❖ .❖ *
“Bicky”: He sat opposite me in the
tram and during the twenty-minute
journey from the city slept like a baby.
Suddenly he sprang to life and, peering
across with bleary eyes, mumbled:
“Wassa time, Dig?” “Half-past nine,” I
replied. “Good! Thash Where I get off,”
he said, and rising rockily to his feet
pulled the bell-cord and disappeared into
the night.
“Ardoyne”: Latest brainwave for safer
night-driving is white gloves with strips
of red tape that glows when light falls on
it attached to both palm and back of the
righthand glove. Drove behind a woman
wearing them: very effective, too, except
that I couldn’t make out whether she was
turning to the right, de-ashing a cigarette,
or merely waving farewell.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tom”: The Parents and Citizens
Association of Blackheath (N.S.W.)
public school has begun a campaign to
raise £2600 to provide the school with a
lunchroom. Seventy years ago the school
itself was built at a cost of £l6O.
❖ ❖ ❖
“P.C.M.”: The Melbourne under-
graduates’ double-barrelled joke on the
road-gang and police (B. 10/7/’57) recalls
one put over the Melbourne police about
twenty years ago. Control-office received
a phone message that a party in a rough
suburb had developed into a brawl. A
patrol-car was directed to the address by
radio; the cops rushed into the party
and seized two men boxing in the centre


of a ring of young fellows barracking. It
was the staff of the suburban police-
station giving a farewell to the sergeant
retiring, and a welcome to the new
sergeant. The retiring sergeant had made
a farewell-speech declaring that at sixty
he was as good a man as his successor, a
mere boy of fifty. The young constables
dared him to prove it with a couple of
rounds in the ring, and the match was
going well when some wag decided to
bring in Russell-street.
❖ * *
“Wusslean”: Now that film-star's set
the fashions in social behavior it will not
be surprising if,
following the lead
of a well-known per-
sonality of stage and
screen who is going
off for a three-weeks
holiday with an ex-
husband, reportedly
with the full appro-
bation of her present
spouse, many others
relieve the monotony
o f marriage b y
spending an occa-
sional vacation with
a former partner,
t suggested to Mrs.
Wusslean that as
neither of us has a
past-partner to have
a vacation with it
might be possible for
me to vary the
monotony of our
marriage by holiday-
ing with a future
partner, whatever
that might be called.
Whereupon she told
me what it might
be called suffers
from an old-
fashioned outlook,
does Mrs. W.
“W.”: Bulletin
Melbourne critic was
wide of the mark
when he said (B.
31/7/’57) that until
Peter O’Shaughnessy
staged “King Lear”
at the Arrow, no
one had had the
courage to put it on in Melbourne
since the days of Alan Wilkie.
John Alden played it at the Comedy
Theatre with a professional cast under
the Williamson banner a few years ago,
and J. Beresford Fowler revived it many
times during the 1930’s and ’4o’s. Three
of O’Shaughnessy’s cast played in
Fowler’s productions. O’Shaughnessy
played Gloucester, Leslie Moxon Edgar,
and Robert Ashton Edmund. Both
Fowler and Alden were particularly good
as Lear.
♦>
“8.J.K.”: Ad. in our town-paper:
WANTED: Domestic Help, for Station
Home near . All slightly damaged but
good wages and conditions.
Sounds like one of these station-families
you meet in saga-novels.
“Pig-islander”: Housewife ringing the
electrician to report a refrigerator on the
blink: “Come over here immediately—
all the milk in my chest’s gone sour!”
❖ ❖ +♦♦
“Bo” : I was being shown over the big,
almost-completed building by the
architect, who stressed that the materials
used in it were as fireproof as science
could possibly make them. “Yet I see that
you still believe in taking no chances, just
in case,” I said, indicating the portable
extinguisher hanging on the wall of the
corridor. He never batted an eyelid, but
jerked a thumb in the direction of the
“But, Stanley, you must have done SOMETHING to
provoke the child.”
door marked Board Room: “It was
just put there as an afterthought. We
considered it might come in handy to put
the language out at their meetings.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bicky”: No doubt some of the minor
prizes won by visitors in State lotteries go
unclaimed; know of a man who won a
consolation-prize, and a £2-cheque chased
him from Perth to Cairns. He didn’t
cash it, but kept it for good-luck, as it
was the first lottery prize he’d won.
&
“F.H.F.”: Like “Greenway” (B.
7/8/’57), I had to learn by experience;
on my visit to the House of Commons,
after listening to dreary questions and
answers for an hour, I crossed my legs
to ease a cramp. An attendant in tails
and a gold(?) chain bore down upon me
and asked me to uncross my legs. When
asked “Whaffor?” he said, “You might
scratch the varnish.” Pointing down to
Clem Attlee, sitting on the front bench
with his feet up on the table, I asked
“What about that bloke down there?”
to which I received the reply, “Ah, 1 have
no control over him, but 1 have over you.”
So I went quietly and refrained • from
putting on a Vivien Leigh act.
*l* ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“P.0.M.C.”: Regularly on Friday
nights in Burwood Road, Burwood
(N.S.W.), a small religious group holds
earnest open-air meetings, what time
members stand on either side of the street
handing-out tracts to passers-by.
Also on both sides of the street, on sturdy
posts some 50yds. below the religionists’
stand, a thoughtful municipal council
provides rubbish-receptacles. Into these
receptacles (almost invariably unread,
alas!) most of the pamphlets go, and next
morning the quantity of them in and
around the receptacles is formidable,
even if the gutters and pavements are
comparatively free. I wonder does this
mean that we, as citizens, are religiously
tidy or just tidily irreligious?
ON THE NOSE!
• “According to a Melbourne psychologist, the
nose can indicate character and talents more
accurately than any other part of the face.”
In dents and ridges, gibbous lumps,
Outcrops and bulges, knobs and bumps
Upon your melon,
Phrenologist will claim to see
Infallible sign that you could be
A saint or felon.
Yet could he not be off the beam
By very positively deem-
ing you curmudgeon,
Simply because he had misread
The corrugation on your head
Caused by a bludgeon ?
All aspects of the human phiz
Psychologists have made their biz.
It’s clear as crystal,
By size and contour of the lug,
To tell the parson from the thug
Who totes a pistol.
The mouth, the jaw, the brow, the eyes
Are clues you simply cant disguise —
They’re in the nuddy;
But, above all, observe the conk !
It’s there, not just to blow and honk
But as a study.
A turn-up nose, yo'u must infer
Reflects Micawber-character —
One of life’s failures ;
Who wears a bulbous snout, it’s clear,
Would be an expert in the sphere
Of glads and dahlias.
Bugles of every size and shape,
All tell their tale — there’s no escape.
And I’m surmising
The nose that has a list to port
Mirrors its owner’s favorite sport:
Frank criticising!
N.s.w.
S. W. K.


After Forty Years —
Old Soldiers Not Fading?
By CHARLES MEEKING
DOES war service, if wounds or
serious illness aren’t involved,
tend to shorten life or increase
the likelihood of disability in
later life? Some organisations of ex-
Servicemen have claimed that it does.
The Repatriation Department, in inquiries
made after the two World Wars, claims
that it does not.
If the department is right, its views
should prove reassuring to former
members of the Services and their
dependants. At the same time, it is
admitted that Repat. hasn’t attempted
any adequate survey of the comparative
health of former members of the Forces
and of civilians. When I questioned the
Minister for Repatriation, Senator
Walter Cooper, on the subject recently
he admitted this, and referred me to a
programme of studies being carried out in
the United States.
In that country, he said, only a com-
paratively small section of the total popu-
lation in the relevant age-groups had been
drafted into the Forces. The programme
had been inaugurated by the Follow-up
Agency of the National Research Council,
in conjunction with the Veterans’ Adminis-
tration and the Army and Navy, upon
the specified advice of the Committee on
Veterans’ Medical Problems.
Senator Cooper suggested a study of the
several monographs already published
by this programme, and undoubtedly this
could be useful as a guide, although not
directly relevant to Australians.
However, the Minister did disclose that
the organisers of an R.S.L. appeal in
Victoria had recently sought information
concerning the differential effects of age-
ing in the ex-Service and civilian popula-
tions. “The principal medical-officer,”
he said, “stated that he had no evidence
that advancing age is causing greater
problems for ex-Servicemen and -women
than those referable to age in other aged
people in the community.”
This guarded statement, by one official,
seems hardly adequate. There are, of
course, factors to be borne in mind. One
is that the members of the Services were
all medically fit at the time of their accept-
ance for service, and were regarded as
remaining in fit condition while on active
duty. Many were in better health and con-
dition at the end of their period of service
than at the beginning. Others were suffer-
ing from disability contracted during
service, and accepted as such. The
civilian population today, on the other
hand, includes many persons of advanc-
ing age who were rejected as medically
unfit for service with the Forces, and
whose disabilities at that time may well
have effects on their general health-
picture today.
It might be thought that disabilities
induced by, or contracted during, service
would have been greater during World
War I than in the later conflict, because
medical science and attention were less
advanced, gas-warfare was used, and on
some fronts the trench-warfare was more
severe on physical and mental health than
most of the fighting in World War 11.
(It would be admitted, of course, that
many prisoners-of-war in World War II
possibly suffered more than any partici-
pants in the earlier war.)
However* a similar inquiry which I
made 22 years ago from the Repat.
Commission produced a similar result.
At that time (in 1935), 17 years after the
end of the war, the commission stated
that the average age of death of men
who had served in World War I,
including even all those suffering from
war-contracted wounds or illness, was
approximately the same as the average
age of death in similar age-groups of
men who hadn’t served.
The commission admitted at that time
that it had no official record of the
number who had experienced the rigors
of front-line service. The chairman
quoted a medical consultant of the com-
mission as saying: “My experience over
the past 20 years has been such as to
prove to me, beyond all possible doubt,
that the propagation of statements as to
early death and the incidence of disease
in ex-soldiers has had a most serious
effect, probably widespread, in increas-
ing invalidity, incapacity and unhappiness
among ex-soldiers.”
The same doctor had added that the
diseases from which ex-soldiers died were
similar in nature and frequency to those
which commonly afflicted the civilian
community at about the same period of
life.
The general question is of importance,
both to former members of the Services
who may feel increasingly that their war-
service may have shortened their expec-
tation of life and to the Governments
who must provide the funds for medical
and hospital treatment of disabilities
accepted as being due to war service. An
inquiry now, twelve years after the end of
the second war, could yield results of
value to former Servicemen of both wars,
the Government, and the community
generally. It should not be left to
Government medical officers, but should
include independent doctors and repre-
sentatives of ex-Service organisations.
The results may or may not differ from
whatever has been discovered on the sub-
ject in the U.S.A. or elsewhere. The real
issue is purely to ascertain the facts of
the situation in Australia and, if necessary,
to initiate action to improve health-
service for war-veterans, and relieve
anxieties which may be felt by them or
their dependants.
“Hullo, Maggie, luv — how many kids We got now ?"


POLITICAL POINTS
Federal Parliament is to have one
week’s rest after every four sitting-weeks
during the Budget session, opening on
August 27, members from both sides of
the Parliament having complained that
they have insufficient time for electoral
matters and that long sessions, with the
regular travel involved, place undue
strain on them.
It’s not many people who get a week’s
holiday on full pay after every month’s
work, but Leader of the House Harold
Holt believes the new system will lead
to more efficient government.
• o
Still, it does appear that Parliament will
have a busy time between now and
Christmas.
First business will be ratification of
the Australian-Japanese Trade Agree-
ment. This will be followed by Fadden’s
“Have What We Hold” Budget, final
details of which Cabinet is working-out
this week. Debate on this and associated
measures will take the best part of five
or six weeks.
Then the Government will introduce
its long-promised banking-reform legisla-
tion, which will separate the central and
trading functions of the Commonwealth
Bank. This will be a bitter debate, with
the Opposition for once being completely
united in its determination to wreck the
legislation.
• •
Motto of some Vaucluse characters
must be: “Lib. and let Lib.”
• •
In the closest finish for more than 40
years Frank Forde lost the Flinders seat
to W. H. Lonergan (C.P.) by 8 votes.
Final count: Lonergan (C.P.), 1440;
Forde (A.L.P.), 1432 ; Katter (Q.L.P.),
1075 ; Corney (Ind.), 224.
Lonergan is a former sheepman who
is postmaster at Kynuna, a very small
town in a very big electorate. His win is
a case of third-time-lucky. He had
opposed Forde on two previous
occasions ; the luck element this time was
the intrusion of a Q.L.P. candidate.
The Flinders upset brought the
Government total to 41 seats. The A.L.P.
holds 20; Q.L.P. 11, and there are two
Independents. One seat, Gregory,
vacant through the death of former Mines
Minister Devries, is still to be contested.
The split-up of Government seats in
the new Queensland Assembly is Country
party, 23 ; Liberals, 18 ; a much closer
representation than in the old Parlia-
ment when the figures were 16 to 8.
Critics of the attempt of the defence
personnel being moved from Melbourne
to Canberra to secure a couple of swim-
ming-pools in Canberra for their exclusive
use have obviously overlooked modern
trends in Australian defence. With the
Antarctic now one of our defence out-
posts, the idea no doubt is to give all
ranks some training in diving into or
through thick ice.
• •
Vic. Parliamentary Labor party was to
choose its new leader yesterday. Acting-
leader Shepherd was almost undisputed
favorite, but voting for deputy-leader
was expected to be quite keen.
• •
Bill Galvin, ex-M.L.A. for Bendigo
(Vic.), can’t be feeling very cordial
towards the Doc. He lost his seat at the
last elections because of the split with
the D.L.P. (then Anti.-Com. Lab.). He
had been Deputy Premier and would
have succeeded John Cain as Opposition-
leader. Results in Queensland have
strengthened the D.L.P. in Vic., and now
even his chances of getting his seat back
next election don’t look too rosy.
• •
Toose, J., told a Sydney women’s club
that on the average there were 152 men in
Long Bay jail for failing to pay main-
tenance to their wives. “These men would
rather be in jail,” he said, “than earn
something to pay their wives’ main-
tenance.” It sounds like a case of going
to jail for a principle through losing
interest. But in Perth W.A. Chief Justice
Dwyer expressed a different view on
broken marriages. He said some young
married women had a new profession—
they went back home to mother, but
expected their husbands to maintain them.
In the Appeals Court he set aside a lower*
court maintenance-order in a case where
this had occurred.
• •
Premier Bolte, suntanned either by the
heat of the Queensland election or by
the sunshine of Surfer’s Paradise, is back
in Melbourne with some details of his
Budget completed. The new session,
from early next month until the first
week of December, will give the Legisla-
tive Assembly three months’ work. The
year’s work-tally so far is two months.
• •
Forde had been regarded as the most
likely choice for Leader of the Queens-
land Opposition. The job has now
gone to L. A. Wood, member for
North Toowoomba, who entered Parlia-
ment by way of the East Toowoomba
seat in 1946, was defeated at the general
election in the following year but made
a comeback (in his present seat) in 1950.
He’s a schoolteacher who put in four years
in the Army and was at Milne Bay when
the Japs landed. His deputy-leader is
Eric Lloyd, M.L.A. for Kedron.
• •
The Banking Bill has proved to be one
of the most difficult to prepare as it
involves amendments to more than 60
lt has been keeping some senior
Treasury officials busy day and night to
complete it in time.
• •
Melbourne trammies, on the orders of
Comrade Clarrie O’Shea, have been carry-
ing on a “regulation strike”; but the
diminishing number of Melbourne unfor-
tunates who have to use the trams have
scarcely noticed it —the service is so bad
even at its best.
• • i
Three stages of statecraft: (1) Vic-
torian Cabinet announces that race-
course-jackpots will not be tolerated.
(2) A West Australian backer wins
£20,000 in one. (3) Premier Bolte, himself
a punter, says thoughtfully that Cabinet
will think about it again.
• •
“Landmark”: The only reason N.S.W.
Railway Commissioner McCusker could
give for rejecting a request for a buffet
on the Glen Innes Mail was that the
facilities already available “reasonably
provided” for travellers.
It is symptomatic of the meagreness of
the existing service that the commissioner
could not commend it any higher than
that it reasonably met requirements.
It seems that the N.S.W. Railways
have only one interest in passengers, and
that is the collection of fares. By cutting-
down services and withholding amenities,
they are playing right into the hands of
rivals who are going all out, by making
their services attractive and convenient, to
consolidate the gain in extra traffic that
is coming their way.
• •
From Canberra:
Despite speculative reports in sections of the
press, Federal Cabinet' in its Budget discus-
sions presented a completely united front on
how far the Government should go in granting
concessions. Senior Ministers described as
“juvenile” suggestions that there were two
blocs in Cabinet—the Country-party Ministers
led by the Treasurer who wanted a “tight”
Budget and the Liberals led by the Prime
Minister seeking widespread tax-cuts and other
concessions.
Ministers say that Fad den told them exactly
what cash he would have to spare, and they
agreed with his suggestions for using it.
The only ordinary people to benefit, it seems,
will be pensioners, although there may be some
slight increase in unemployment-benefits. Pen-
sion-increases of between 7s. 6d. and 10s. a
week are almost certain, with corresponding
increases in Service-pensions.
These increases will cost about £l6 million
a year, and there will be concessions amounting
to about £l5 million a year as incentives to
business.
There will almost certainly be an easing of
tax on industry, and depreciation allowances
may be liberalised in line with recommendations
of the Hulme committee, which presented its
report in June, 1955.
The Hulme committee recommended ah
increase of 50 per cent, in the rates" for property
depreciation for the diminishing-value method—
the increase to apply to existing as well as
future plant and the allowance to apply to all
buildings and property used in earning taxable
income.


N. S. Wales Parliament reopens today
for a session that will last till mid-
December. One of the highlights will be
the tabling of the Ebasco report on the
railways, and the subsequent debate.
Opposition attacks have been prepared
on the proposed redistribution of
Assembly electorates and the bill to avoid
by-elections for casual vacancies on
councils elected by proportional-repre-
sentation.
• •
Eddie Ward, on a visit to Adelaide, is
to stay with Cyril Chambers. The news
should give Senator Fixer Ashley a
chance to return to his old profession.
There should be as many members of
Federal caucus willing to bet that the
pair will be together to plan the downfall
of Evatt as there will be that Ward has
been sent in his capacity as a political
boa-constrictor to swallow Chambers.
• •
111-health has forced the resignation of
New Zealand Prime Minister Sidney
Holland, after nearly, eight years as head
of the Government and 17 as leader of
the National party. His successor is
K. J. Holyoake, his deputy and Minister
for Agriculture and Marketing since
1949.
• •
Commonsense prevailed over irrespon-
sibility and the N. S. Wales teachers
decided not to stage a stopwork meeting
yesterday after all. Anyway, the advo-
cates of the stunt didn’t show much under-
standing of the fitness of things; a stay-
in strike would have been much more in
keeping with the traditions of the class-
room.
• >
Four Country-party candidates have
been given the party endorsement for
Larry Anthony’s Richmond (N.S.W.)
seat in the House of Representatives.
They are J. D. Anthony (the late member’s
son) who is a farmer at Murwillumbah ;
R. G. Gordon, auctioneer and a former
mayor of Lismore ; O. J. Jackson, store-
keeper and shire councillor of Byron
Shire; R. L. O’Neill, storekeeper and
mayor of Ballina. The A.L.P. candidate
is W. H. Smith, a member of the Tweed
Shire Council, who, like Anthony, has
a farm at Murwillumbah. The by-election
will be held on September 14.
• •
Cahill's excuse for his no-by-election
plan is that it will ensure the selection of
a member of the same party or group as
the councillor whose death or resignation
caused the vacancy. R. C. Cotton, presi-
dent of the N. S. Wales Libs., has
exploded this one by pointing out that
except on the Sydney City Council the
only political party putting-up candidates
at local-government elections is the
A.L.P.
• •
The two greatest bits of military news
of the week in the Middle East: (1)
The Communists have virtually taken
over Syria; (2) the U.N. Emergency
Force has “re-deployed” its polyglot force
(which couldn’t fight an ice-cream) in
the Gaza Strip and Sinai Desert. Even
though the Indonesians are going home
the world will sleep more peacefully to
learn from the horse’s mouth that the
remaining Colombians and Yugoslavs,
etc., “keep the line under observation
from their posts by day and patrol it
extensively at night.”
• •
G. S. Cox, Liberal candidate for Satur-
day’s Vaucluse (N.S.W.) by-election, has
criticised the Sydney Water Board’s
system of rating on the basis of capital
values. He points out that this means that
householders using equal quantities of
water pay different amounts in rates
according to the assumed value of their
houses. An even stronger ground for
criticism is the board’s refusal to lower
its rate (as municipal councils do) when
the Valuer-General increases the valua-
tion of a property. This brings-in a
vastly increased revenue without any
corresponding expenses to justify it.
• •
If Eddie says Labor still wants bank-
nationalisation and the Doc. says it
doesn’t and Eddie says Labor can still
win under the Doc. what will Labor’s
banking policy be if it does win?
• •
Few Labor politicians care to recall
that, before World War 11, John Curtin
supported an attempt by a Westralian
Government to export iron-ore from
Yampi Sound to Japan. Now the present
Labor Government of that State has been
trying to get similar permission, to allow
a million tons of iron-ore from another
deposit to go to Japan during the next
two-and-a-half years The Federal
Government has refused the request.
Premier Hawke says the decision “further
emphasises Canberra’s callous disregard
of West Australia’s need for develop-
ment.” What do Dr. Evatt and Co. say
on the subject?
• •
Australia’s trading deficit with dollar-
area countries was £3B million in the
financial year ended June 30, 1957, com-
pared with £53 million the previous year.
• •
A nine-man panel of doctors and pro-
fessors has been appointed in Victoria to
run the rule over the qualifications of
foreign doctors. Five were nominated by
the University Faculty of Medicine and
the University Council and the other
four occupy University professorial
medical chairs in the four chief Mel-
bourne hospitals. The Medical Board’s
right to decide who should practise has
been rescinded, the board, in this
matter, being—er —deregistered.
• •
Unpublished exultation of the Yellow
Press:
We worked the Asian 'flu up to a,scare
Designed to pound the heart and catch
the breath;
Now comes a further answer to our
prayer:
Whacko, and welcome to the “Golden
Death”!
ANOTHER ANCIENT MARINER
Ah! Well a-day! What evil looks had I from old and young;
Instead of a cross the albatross about my neck was hung.


PERSONAL ITEMS
CHANCELLOR
QUEENSLAND University has had
State Governors, Chief Justices, a
former Premier and a medical man as
Chancellors: Now it has an engineer
and businessman, A. E. Axon (above),
of the Brisbane electrical and mechanical
engineering firm of that name. Like his
predecessor in office, the late Dr. Otto
Hirschfeld, a graduate of the Queens-
land University—he holds its degree of
Master of Engineering—and for many
years, as a member of the University
Senate, helping to govern it, he also has
professional and business associations
which reach far and wide in the life of
the State. He played a big part, for
instance, in developing the supply of
electricity to Queensland country towns,
and he has been on the boards of com-
panies concerned with cement, trustee-
ships, metals, and gas. In common with
colleagues of the Senate, and the mass
of graduates, he publicly protested against
the appeal-board provisions of the Gair
Government’s University Act as a threat
to the ’Varsity’s academic freedom.
• •
Collins Street”: Another teenager
escapade! Gillian Gaylard, a 19-year-
old Tatura (Vic.) girl who won a Queen
of the Goulburn Valley contest,
immediately announced she would give
the £250 to a local (Mooroopna) hospital
and was thereupon invited by State
Cabinet to Melbourne. In one day she
had several official morning cuppas,
visited the Royal Children’s Hospital,
lunched with the Lord Mayor and his
wife, modelled lovely clothes in the after-
noon, had dinner with the Premier and
his wife, and went to the theatre. At
the hospital she presented a personal
cheque for £5. For a beauty queen it was
outstanding form.
• •
Well-known Australian author Dal
Stivens astonished The Bulletin, which
thought he was still in London, by blow-
ing-in last week from Tasmania, where
he has been writing a novel.
LV • •
“Mac Hoots”: I am delighted to see
that Paul Haefliger, Sydney “Herald’s”
famous art-critic, goes out in style. He
went round two major exhibitions, dis-
covered that the only good painting in
either of them was a canvas by Michael
Kmit, and uttered the following remark-
able sentence:
Let there be a reasonable doubt in both
exhibitions why some of these are thereby
placating the others.
The “Herald” announced at the head
of his article that he was going away to
live in Paris.
• •
The type of con-
ductor who leaves
his terrific scowls
parked in the - re-
hearsal - room and
wears his best
geniality on the
podium is not, of
course, unknown.
But Efrem Kurtz
has the won’t-wear-
off smile for both
occasions. When
Dubois unobtru-
sively put himself
on the outskirts of
the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra at
rehearsal to do this
sketch, Kurtz seemed
to be enjoying some
secret joke all
through the proceed-
ings ; when the
caricaturist folded
his page and silently
stole away Efrem
was still beaming
over his forces, and
at the Town Hall
concert later his
risible muscles were
still working over-
time.
A vigorous 57,
the long, lean Kurtz
is making his
second tour of Aus-
tralia, this time for
the A.B.C. he
was here 29 years
ago as musical-
director for Pavlova.
In the interim he
waved a baton in
various parts of the
other four continents, and over every
major orchestra in the U.S., which he
has made his home. A native of St.
Petersburg and a pupil of the composer
Glazounov, Kurtz has two brothers who
are musically distinguished: Edmund,
the ’cellist, and Arved, the violinist.
• •
Kenneth Quinn, who has been acting
as senior lecturer in classical studies a°
Melbourne University, has secured the
Dominion Fellowship of St. John’s
College, Cambridge, for 1957-58, and
proposes to devote himself to research
into Roman personal poetry. Quinn,
whose Uni. masters describe him as a
brilliant youngster, is a popular lecturer.
He will get quarters in college and £3OO
a year, fellowships being notoriously slow
in catching up with economic depressions
and inflation.
• •
“Ek Dum’s” tribute:
Major-General Herbert William Lloyd, who
died in Sydney at 74, was one of the
legendary figures of military life in Australia, a
permanent officer whose fame spread through-
out the A.I.F. during World War I, a symbol
of courage, youthful daring and efficiency.
Bertie Lloyd was a Victorian, educated at
Wesley College, Melbourne. Captain and
adjutant Victorian Field Artillery in 1908, he
joined the R.A.A. in 1911, and was one of the
earliest artillerymen in the A.I.F. in 1914. From
a start as adjutant to the First Artillery Brigade
CONDUCTOR


on Gallipoli—he was in the Landing—he rose
rapidly to the command of a regular battery on
FL’lles and in 1916-18 commanded the 22nd
How. and sth and 12th Artillery Brigades,
becoming, towards the end, C.R.A. to the sth,
and, finally, to the Ist Div., A.I.F.
Tall, boyishly handsome, but at the same time
with a look of hard efficiency about him, Lloyd
very early earned a reputation akin to that
of Goddard and his like for utter fearlessness
and tenacity. His brigades were always turned
out in paradeground order, if there was
half a chance for pipeclay and polish, but in
battle they were among the best brigades of
the British Army. Dozens of stories of Lloyd’s
daring came out of the war, perhaps the most
famous arising out of Lagnicourt (March,
1917), where he commanded the advance-guard
of the artillery (Fourth and Fifth Brigades) and,
with Elliott’s brigades, laichdown the barrage.
Then there were the exciting incidents of the
crucial April 12, 1918, when he was caught at
the headquarters of the British 153rd Brigade,
and, while his orderly sniped at the advancing
Germans, helped clean-up the H.Q.—with
bullets coming through the walls. "Realising,”
writes Bean, "that these could have come only
from close outside, they gathered up their
papers and left.” Colonel Dyson, who was
lame, took time to tap on a cottage window and
call to a colleague, “Come on, Dick —it’s time to
be going.” Lloyd, who had returned for
Dyson's stick, left by the front-door as the
Germans came in the back; and under enemy
fire from rifles and machine-guns, the pair sur-
vived by dodging into ditches to fight their way
out of the mess with a little group of dogged
Highlanders.
After the war Brigadier-General Lloyd, highly
decorated—C.B., C.M.G., C.V.0., D.S.O. and
four "mentions”—was attached to the staff of
the Prince of Wales during his Australian tour.
He was at that time Director and Chief Instruc-
tor, Field Artillery, C.M.F., but the Army then
offered little scope for his ebullient energy and
ambition, and in 1925 he went into commercial
life, in which he was a fish out of water.
Fie was a member of* the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly for 10 years, and returned to the
A, my in 1940 as Deputy-Adjutant-General,
became Director-General of Recruiting, was for
three years G.0.C., Second Division, and for a
time commanded the First Division before
becoming G.0.C., Administrative Command,
Second Australian Army, a position he. held
until January, 1946. His name will live as
one of the historic figures of the A.I.F. in
Wo; Id War 1. He was a good companion, an
accomplished raconteur, and no Digger ever
turned to him for help in vain.
• •
“Kros”: South Australia’s new Police
Commissioner, in succession to the late
Ivor Green, is John Gilbert McKinna.
Aged 50, he served in War II in Syria,
the Western Desert, New Guinea and
Bougainville, where he won D.S.O.
leading a counter-attack. He was
appointed S.A. Deputy Police Commis-
sioner in January, 1956, and has lately
returned from studying police methods
at Scotland Yard.
• •
“C. Coral”: Per a returned man I
received in War II a special personal
message from a young fellow I’d known
up North, who’d joined the Forces.
“Great fellow, Charlie Mene,” said the
message-bearer. • “One of my best
cobbers.” Recently I saw Charlie’s picture
in an illustrated newspaper. He was
standing stiffly to attention while the
High Commissioner for the Federation
of Malaya (Sir Donald MacGillivray)
pinned a Military Medal on his uniform.
Corporal Charles Mene was then serv-
ing with the 2nd Bn., R.A.R., in Malaya ;
but the decoration was awarded for
bravery in action while he was on service
in Korea. His old friends on his island
home in Torres Strait will be very proud
of that medal, as are also his white
friends, who remember Charlie when he
was a lad working on the pearling-boats.
His father, Mene, a tall, dignified figure,
was one of the Anglican native church-
wardens of the island of Mabuiag, and
his mother a leading member of the
Mothers’ Union; but it isn’t so very
long since his headhunting forebears
paddled their war-canoes through Torres
Strait on grim expeditions.
A number of the Islanders serving in
the Forces put up splendid records during
the war, by the way. One thing they
strongly resent is being called “Binghis,”
the ignorant white man’s word for tnem.
• •
Present managing-director and boss of
the big chain in the year in which k has
become Australia’s greatest retail organi-
CHAIN-STORES
salion, Edgar Barton Coles (he was born
with Federation) had to do a fairish
climb up, starting as a mere outside-
accountant member of the family of five
brothers (two others died in World War
1), all associated with merchandising.
Until recently Eddie Coles, a plain-
dealing, unpretentious fellow, was
spare, like his brothers, but in the last
year has put on a couple of stone, due, his
cobbers reckon, to sitting in his office
gloating over the chain’s soaring sales.
He began as a clerk in the ’Wales and
loved his life in the bank, although he
got only 355. a week, paid £1 a week
board, and had to buy his suits on t.-p.
He had to persuade his brothers to let
him enter the business after the First
World War, but has demonstrated the
family drive and efficiency since his pro-
motion. One of the few real luxuries
he enjoys, with his wife and children, is
a magnificent house at Mt. Eliza over-
looking Port Phillip Bay, where he leads
an active and sporting life.
• •
Ernest Granville Fairburn, the visiting
U.K. industrialist, had gone a long way
in the public service before going to
Chemical and Insulating Co., Ltd., which
has expanded considerably under his
leadership. Recently a holding-company,
Darlington Chemicals, Ltd., was formed
to control the seven subsidiary companies
including an ■ American subsidiary),
which now comprise the group. Among
his more notable achievements since he
went in for business, Fairbum established
a new industry in Britain for the manu-
facture of Refrasil, a high-temperature
insulant used mainly for aircraft. Start-
ing from scratch on a waste-slag site, he
established a manufacturing unit in the
almost derelict village of Stillington,
County Durham, where there is now a
big factory and a thriving population.
A member of the Executive Committee of
British Chambers of Commerce, deputy
chairman of the Northern Council of
the Federation of British Industries, and
vice-chairman of the Northern Council
of the Institute of Directors, he grows
rare plants for fun and is keenly interested
in horses —the last not surprising in an
ex-cavalry-officer. Trained in law and
economics, he represented the U.K.
at United Nations meetings during his
p.s. career. He'll be tripping between
Sydney, Canberra and Melbourne during
his stay here, and tomorrow —Thursday—
is due to address the Sydney Millions
Club at luncheon.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 46, Lieut.-Commander John
Stuart Mould. He won the George Cross and
George Medal, and a commendation, as a mine-
disposal expert.
In Melbourne, Mrs. M. H. Catlin, operatic
soprano. Under her stage-name of Felicia
Francis, she was one of the stars in the first
season of the National Opera Company.
In Adelaide, at 76, Travers Borrow, author
of papers and essays on the early history of
S.A. He was a grandson of S.A.’s first Premier,
Boyle Travers Finniss.
In Melbourne, at 67, F. G. L. Harding,
chartered accountant and director of several
companies, including Mcllwraith McEacharn,
H. B. Dickie and Henry Berry.
In Brisbane, at 84, H. E. Heers, former
Director of Dairying in Queensland Agriculture
and Stock Department.
In Melbourne, at 14, J. P. Quaine, anti-
quarian-bookseller arid authority on
Australiana.
At Tauranga (N.Z.), at 74, Rev. F. A.
Thompson. He retired from the Presbyterian
ministry in 1950 to devote his time to the
Mission to Lepers, as Dominion secretary, was
first to bold the office of president of the
mission’s N.Z. council, and played a big part
in the rise of funds from £4600 annually to
some £23,000.
In Melbourne, at 76, Rev. H. C. Kent, well-
known Methodist social-service worker and,
before World War I, missionary in Fiji.
In Vienna (Georgia, U.S.A.), at 79, U.S.
Senator Walter George, President Eisenhower’s
special ambassador to Nato.
In U.S.A., at 71, American historical novelist
Kenneth Roberts. His best-known novel was
North-west Passage.


VABOraaNAUTlES
■pIRST vehicle that hove in sight after
a broken car-axle had stopped me
was a ute, a real bomb, and sitting behind
the wheel was the toughest-looking man
I ever saw. The only thing he had on
was a pair of shorts. He told me he was
a woodcutter. •
I asked for a lift back to town.
“Yes, mate ; I’m going to town, jump
in.”
I had some trouble finding a place for
my feet; there were a few floorboards
missing.
After a few miles we halted for a couple
of drinks at a railway-siding pub. Back
in the ute, the woodcutter put his foot
on the clutch and pressed it in and a
snake bit him on the calf of the leg.
I grabbed the snake about a foot from
its tail and flung it out of the truck. The
woodcutter grabbed a tyre-lever and
promptly killed it.
I panicked. “Nick it, nick it,” I said,
“and I’ll suck it.”
“She’s right, mate,” said the woodcutter,
and calmly took a pocketknife from a
pouch on his belt, and put a cut in his
leg about 2in. long and deep.
No need to suck it; the blood squirted
out of it. I tore my' shirt for bandages,
but the woodcutter , wouldn’t let me touch
it until he had lost what looked to me
a quart of blood ; then he let me tie it up.
“We’ll have another drink,” said the
woodcutter.
This time he had a whisky. We started
for town, 12 miles. The woodcutter drove
all the way ; and bled all the way. On
nearing the town I asked if he was going
to the hospital.
“No, mate, ambulance’ll do.”
The ambulance-man made a good job,
stopped the bleeding and put a good
bandage on him and advised him to see
the doctor.
“She’s right, mate,” said the wood-
cutter.
We went to the first hotel, and after a
few drinks, I said good-bye and thanked
him for the lift, and hoped he would be
all right.
A few hours later I was passing the
hotel and went in to see how he was. The
bar was crowded and noisy. He was
sitting at the far end of the bar, with a
glass of beer in front of him, singing
at the top of his voice. I waved to him
and pointed down to his leg. He waved
back and shouted:
“She’s right, mate. She’s right.”
HARRY L.
“Myall": In the 11 months to the end
of May, Queensland’s co-ordinating
board paid-out £38,519 for the scalps of
26,742 dingoes, 80,372 wild pigs and
14,992 foxes. Rates are: dingoes, £1 per
scalp ; wild pigs, 2s. , foxes, ss. Many
graziers don’t claim for the pests they
shoot or trap, which would make the total
of those destroyed even bigger. And this
probably represents only a small portion
of the ravagers.
* * * *
“Swelpme”: How many triple-barrelled
guns are there in Australia? I’d never
heard of such until a New Australian
showed me one. At a casual glance it
appeared to be an ordinary 16-gauge;
underneath the twin barrels, however,
the third barrel nestled—and it was a
rifle! To bring the rifle into action the
“Au), go on with you — I bet you say that to
ALL the girls!”
shooter had merely to flick the breech-
lever in the wrong direction and a rear-
sight sprang up. A weapon combining
shotgun and heavy-calibred (about .33)
rifle should have been made for use in
the Australian bush, but the owner gives
it a more colorful history. He claims it
was made in Belgium specially for the
Kaiser, who used it on his shooting-
preserves. After Wilhelm’s abdication
it became the property of the head game-
keeper, whose wife, an Englishwoman,
took the weapon with her to England
when her husband died. Later she emi-
grated to Australia, where the present
owner, aware of the weapon’s history,
bought it from her. Whether the story is
true or not the gun should still command
a sizeable price, either as a utility-weapon
or a collector’s piece.
* * * *
The old question of what to
do with the “dead marine” has assumed
frightening proportions on Norfolk
Island. TEAL’s new Melbourne manager,
Hunter McNicol, recently back from a
visit there, reports the solving of the
problem by one of the locals who is
building himself a five-roomed house of
bottles and concrete. Ten-thousand
bottles is the estimate, but it makes little
impression on the dump.
* * * *
“Bass”: The old idea that fertilisers kill
native plants isn’t entirely factual —I’ve
had boronia respond to liberal dressings
of blood-and-bone
and super., and some
eucalypts relish a
diet they couldn’t
possibly get under
the conditions they’d
naturally choose. It’s
true, however, that
certain native plants
choose to grow only
in restricted soil-
types. Take Ccesia.
This dimi n u ti v e
eucalypt, with bright
pink flowers and a
powdery-white bark
and dark, almost
blue leaves, occurs
naturally only
around granite-out-
crops. It grows thus
in the drier areas of
W.A., yet it's odd
that Ccesia hasn’t
spread, since culti-
vated plants show it
can grow just as well
in a wide variety of
soils and climates.
The same applies to
ilyarrie, the plant
with the prominent
red bud-covers and
soft yellow blooms.
It can be cultivated
without trouble any-
where, in almost any
country—it’s grown
extensively over-
seas yet in its
native state it occurs
only along the lime-
stone-country of the sou’-Westralian
coastal plain. Why hasn’t it spread
inland? The coral-flowered gum grows
on diorite country from Coolgardie south
to Widgiemooltha, always on rocky
ground ; and the lemon-flowered gum has
a natural range of only a couple of
hundred square-miles along the Trans
line 100 miles or so east of Kalgoorlie.
Both species are popular for gardens
and parks, and they don’t seem at all
fussy about the type of soil. Yet they’re
remarkably selective in the wild. Why?
* * * *
“Ceg”: Not exactly surprising that
some members of a large rural family


' Lock y movw/ -— *
£ar.<?£ &omtf sa£l


didn't know one another (B. 24/7/’57).
Two other cases: A very small boy was
found wandering outside the big-top when
a circus had a one-night stand at our
outback Victorian hamlet. The proprietor
took him to a man surrounded by a mul-
titudinous family in the front seats, and
asked if the child was his. After care-
ful scrutiny the champion sire said, “I
ain’t sure, but I think he’s one of mine—
better ask his mother.” In the other case
an isolated settler in the wild and moun-
tainous part of East Gippsland had a large
family of sons. Some had grown up and
selected land in the same mountainous
district. One day a tall, bearded old man
and a middle-aged cove met on the track.
They stopped and had a yarn about the
weather and this and that, then went
their ways. It wasn't till some weeks
later that the old boy discovered he had
been talking to one of his own brood.
* * * *
“Kros”: Australian and American
scientists are investigating an Australian
theory that dust from shooting-stars
might cause hurricanes. It's a plausible
theory. Shooting-stars, also known as
meteor-showers, appear when the earth
passes through the residue of comets
which have disintegrated ; the com-
ponents of these cometary remains have
only recently been discovered. In 1950
the U.S. astronomer F. L. Whipple found
that the nucleus of comets is a conglom-
erate of meteoritic matter and frozen
gases consisting of water-ice, carbon-
dioxide (dry-ice), ammonia, methane and
cyanogen. Hence the idea that these
meteor-showers help to produce rain-
showers, thunderstorms, gales, and the
like.
* * * *
“Sackville”: The volunteer fire-brigade
made good time to the blaze, but lost
15 vital minutes digging for a hydrant-
box—road-gangs have an annoying
habit of burying them. Connected at last,
the hose filled and bulged, but no water
came. Frantic overhaul of the gear
located and removed the obstruction —a
termites’ nest built over the hydrant had
been forced through the hose, blocking
the nozzle. Two letters in the local rag
followed the episode: one deplored that
the tardiness of the volunteers had caused
the building to be lost; the other com-
plained about the siren disturbing resi-
dents’ slumbers. Truly, the lot of the
volunteer firemen is a thankless one!
* * * *
“Rumee”: The orchard-cocky at the
roadside stall was occupied with the well-
upholstered woman who had clambered
out of the glistening American car-lossus.
“Try one ol these pears, lady,” he urged.
“They’re Keit'ers, with a real pineapple
flavor.” She raised haughty eyebrows:
“When I want pineapple flavor, I'll buy
pineapples. If you haven't any pears that
taste like pears, I'll go elsewhere!”
* * * *
“Jas.”: Fast disappearing from more
settled areas —in N.S.W. at least —is the
firetail-finch. Olive-brown above, dove-
grey and finely-barred black beneath, with
a crimson rump and beak, this attractive
bird dwells mostly in damp places—-
low-lying barren heath and rank grasses
meet its needs, all the more so with a
waterfall in the vicinity. Unlike the very
similar and better-known red-browed
finch, and, for that matter, all other
members of the tribe, the firetail isn’t a
sociable bird, and flocks are rarely
reported. In W.A. an almost identical
fowl —the red-eared finch —is, if any-
thing, nearer to extinction than the
easterner.
“Who gave permission for pole-vaulting in this exercise-yard ?”
“Manamoi”: A characteristic
of some of our ratlike and mouse-
like marsupials, which contrasts
oddly with their small size and
delicate appearance, is their
remarkable ferocity. The useful
little Sminthopsis, which resembles
a house-mouse (though some
varieties are slightly smaller),
feeds mainly on grasshoppers,
beetles and other insects, but will
tackle centipedes and house-mice.
The larger desert-dwelling Mul-
gara, with its soft brownish fur,
large eyes and fastidious habits,
could have hopped out of a
Beatrix Potter illustration, but
when hungry it is sudden death to
mice, rats and small birds. The
brush-tailed marsupial-rat, with
pretty grey fur, is another animal
of storybook appearance, and
useful in that it preys on rats and
mice, but it creates havoc in
poultry-yards, maiming and killing
apparently for sport, and it will
savagely bite interfering hands.
When confronted with one of these blood-
thirsty atoms one feels profoundly thank-
ful that the larger marsupials are herbi-
vorous. A boomer-’roo of comparable
savagery would be truly formidable.
A BOUNDARY NO MORE
A ripple of ground still shows the line
where
a fence once divided this paddock in
two —
the habit of being divided fades slowly
and may not be smoothed out in one
growing-season.
Here where two paddocks shared a
common boundary
that kept corn from wheat and cattle from
sheep,
the limit set to please some farmer’s
business
had now been ploughed over and planted
to crops.
There were stones here once and rabbit-
burrows :
these things belong to the edge of a
paddock ;
and probably wild berries had looped
protection
around the nest where the hen-pheasant
sat,
and rested their vines on the barbed-wire
fence
that stood for authority once in this place
till the wire went slack and the barbs
grew rusty
and posts rotted off and soon nothing was
left
in the wave of the ground but a few wild
roots ...
though lately l found a freshly-dug den
where a fox of the old school, loyal to
his party,
had refused to admit that the fence-row
was gone.
n.s.w.
PAL CLEARY.


AN old by-law that netted £5OOO per
has been ditched with deep emotion
by the Rockhampton (Q.) City Council.
Based on an estimate that each town
m oke used 3500 gallons of water a year
for “drinking and ablutionary” purposes,
it slugged each owner 18s. 6d. It’s a nice
thought that the few old friends of man
left in the town can
now have one “on the
house.” —“Myall.”
• *
“X.C.”: The prize
sow that selected the
smallest pumpkin
in which to shelter
herself and her
litter (B. 24/7/’57)
wouldn’t have cut
any ice with a U.S.
soldier I happened
to travel with in
Queensland during
the war. Any
encountered out-
sized examples in
animal, vegetable or
mineral brought the
invariable comment:
“They’re much
bigger in Texas.”
When a . small
wallaby hopped
across the road I
thought I had got
him at last. “Do
they come bigger in
Texas, too?” He
looked at me quiz-
zically and drawled:
“Waall, I gotta
admit your grasshoppers are a bit bigger
than our’n.”
* * * *
“C.F.”: It was a clear morning after a
cold night. The big black cat came out
of the children’s bedroom, where he had
spent the night, and sat in the kitchen
doorway washing his face. Then he
glanced sideways towards the darker
shadow of the kitchen, and froze.
Something was coming towards
him, something with one large single eye
that glowed and expanded in the advanc-
ing light. As it moved closer, the cat,
hero of many an encounter with snakes
and rats, bolted into another room. The
horror moved forward and revealed itself
as a large brown bush-cockroach, weak
with cold, looking for warmth. The
yellow ring around its head had looked,
like a huge eye in the broken light, and
the shining folded wings had given an
impression of a long snake-like body
following.
* * * *
“A.F.”: As an old hand at following a
plough, I will be obliged if you ask
“Ninda” (B. 12/6/’57) what a Brahman
bull would be doing “behind a plough in
an Indian paddyfield.”
* * * *
“Sack”: “Marvellous how athletic a
feller can get if he’s frightened enough,”
reflected Chick, as we sat toe-toasting
around the log fire. “I remember one
time I was paddin’ the hoof along a
narrow, winding track through thick
blackthorn scrub. All of a sudden a big
white bull comes round the bend. He
gives me one look, then puts his head
down and charges. Well, I didn’t have
room to sidestep, and I’d never won a
race in me life. But, scared stiff as I
was, I still had savvy enough to notice
“I bet you throw your darts away after you've had a go with this."
an ironbark branch hanging over the
track about fifteen-feet off the ground.
That bull was only four-feet off me when
I gave an almighty leap in the air and
grabbed at the branch” Norm the
Nark couldn’t let that pass. “Don’t tell me
you grabbed a branch fifteen-feet off the
ground,” he scoffed. “No,” drawled the
old-’un. “I missed it. But by cripes I
made certain of it when I was coming
down!”
THE DUGONG HUNT
TPHE dugong never does anybody any
harm. She eats the grasses of the
cockle-bed, suckles her young, is a good
housewife who doesn’t slander her sisters,
and allows her husband long vacations
with his friends. She is the fact behind
the myth of the mermaid. Nevertheless,
man is carnivorous as the tiger, and is as
futile in fighting his meat-hunger as the
striped animal.
On a moonlit night, when our souls
should have been satisfied with poesy, we
shuttled silently back and forth over the
cockle-beds bent on the destruction of the
mammal grazing below. Parjoo was a
statue, gliding on the prow of an almost
noiseless craft, his harpoon fixed as he
waited for the sound of the dugong
“blowing” as it came to the surface for
air.
It came about a quarter of a mile
astern, so we abouted and rowed ever-
so-gently towards it. Parjoo raised him-
self on the gunwale, and then dived over-
board, thrusting the harpoon before him.
The harpoon-line ran out as Parjoo
clambered over the stern, having pulled
the pole out of the iron harpoon.
The dugong is a shallow-water animal,
and, generally, when they are harpooned
they do not make for deeper water, where
their natural enemies lie. Usually they
tow a boat at about five knots or more
for some time, even up to an hour, and
then the poor animal rolls over in the
watef, beaten. Once the dugong is
“blown” a turn is taken with a rope
about its tail, and it is hauled up to the
side of the boat, and taken to land.
The next day we carved-up the dugong.
The natives made corroboree, and the
whites found shrivelled apples in a barrel
in the hold and added them to the roasted
dugong, which tasted like a very rich
pork. It was an excellent change in diet
after months of fish, turtle-eggs, aged
beef (curried to hide its age) and tinned
beef. All the natives save Parjoo, who
had harpooned the animal, ate and
laughed.
“What for you no catchem dugong
tucka?” someone asked Parjoo. He
shook his head.
Later Paki told us why Parjoo did not
eat dugong.
“Dugong all same family alonga Par-
joo. Parjoo killem, no more Parjoo
eatem. Parjoo eatem that pfeller, big
pfeller longa moon come down bimeby
and eatem Parjoo!”
So the superstition, magic and medicine
of the Torres Straits boys builds up the
old story of the mermaid once again!
REDRILL.


*
Ql
W
UAL
ATER
*
WATER SOFTENERS
For the home
In Industry
In Hard Water Areas
Steam Raising Plants for Hospitals.
Manufacturing Processes.
Manual, Semi-automatic, Fully Automatic.
Specialised equipment for Farm and Station
Purposes.
FILTRITE Water Filters
Clear, crystal water for
every purpose. The home,
Institute use, Industry,
Swimming Pools, Town
Supply. Specialised equip-
ment for Farm and Station
purposes.
DEIONIZATION
This makes it possible to
obtain a water which is
the equivalent of a triple
distilled water, free from
all dissolved solids, and at
a fraction of the cost of
distillation.
W. G. UTTING & CO. PTY. LTD,.
T. & G. Building,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE. 88998 - 85097
Contractors to State and Commonwealth Governments.
Manufacturers of all types of Water Treatment
Plants, both Industrial and Domestic.
Rusiness.Rollouy.Etc
CAPITAL AND TAXATION
TN his excellent new book,
A ustralia and the Challenge
of Change (to be reviewed in
The Bulletin at length in an
early issue), Walter Scott,
Sydney management consultant,
says, in a chapter on “Taxation
and Its Effects”:
(/) If it is tp be accepted that
the amount of available capital
wull be the main determinant
of our rate of progress, any
[ taxation ] concessions which
assist in the promotion of
capital must be regarded as of
the greatest importance.
(2) As obsolescence will
become an increasingly im-
portant factor [in view of the
world-wide swing-over to elec-
tronics, automation and atomic
power ] there is a strong case
for accelerated depreciation
either by a scheme similar to
that operating in pr i m ary
industry or by some other
special .concessions.
(3) A number of other
countries, seeking the maximum
competitive advantage, have
already made such concessions.
(4) The abolition of payroll-
tax and relief to small industry
through relief from undistri-
buted-profits taxes in private
companies are both soundly
based and would help the
competitive position of Aus-
tralian industry.
(5) The true perspective of
these matters and the urgent
call for action should justify
an examination of the whole
problem in its newer perspec-
tive, and neither opposition by
the Taxation Department nor
the fears of the Treasury should
be allowed to prevent such
examinations.
(6) It is possible that any
concessions made could be
fnanced from savings ulti-
mately made through increased
efficiency in Governmental
services and ventures.
Very well said indeed, and at
an appropriate time. Mr.
Scott, in this volume of remark-
able scope and implications,
quotes J. A. L. Gunn's plan
to overcome the evil of
company over - borrowing
(securing capital by way of
loan rather than by way of
share-capital), and to remove
the double-taxation of company
profits and abolish the existing
distinction between private and
public companies. The scheme
proposed—
(l) Allowing a company a
deduction of all dividends paid
to residents of Australia in the
same manner as private
companies are at present
allowed a deduction of divi-
dends paid in calculating the
“undistributed amount” sub-
ject to undistributed-income
tax. *
(2) Levying a tax at the same
fiat rate on both private and
public companies on the
remainder of their taxable
incomes, after allowing the
deduction referred to in (1)
(3) Levying tax against share-
holders, including companies,
on dividends received by them
without rebate.
Suggestions such as those
made by Mr. Scott and Mr.
Gunn can be ignored only at
the risk of ultimate national
economic disaster. Australia
is, industrially, a backward
country in terms of its strongest
overseas trading competitors
and national fiscal policy
should aim at helping, not
hindering, industrial develop-
ment.
At present taxation methods
are distinctly at odds with the
anti-inflationary aims of the
Treasury, and it is time that
the whole set-up of company-
taxation was reviewed. Up till
now it has operated on the
principle of departmental
expediency, not national
necessity.
Fall in the Franc
[i’rom Canberra]
YT7HILE public attention is
▼▼ being directed to the
possible effects the newly signed
Australian - Japanese* Trade
Agreement wall have on Aus-
tralian industries and employ-
ment generally, the Government
i s very closely watching
developments following the
decision of the French
Government to devalue the
franc.
Although it is yet too early
assess the possible effects, the
Government knows that it
could adversely react against
Australian exports both to
p ra nce and other countries,
—, ... . . , T
. .L he M , ,n,s,£r , for , Trade
McEwen) said last week that
Austral,an ex P orts >?
*“ now Austral,as
lh,rd ; besl customer, comprised
™! n| y w ° ol and sheepskin ,
and " was " ot kno '™ ‘ f
,h . e ” ew French tntport-tax,
whlch was imposed as part ot


4 -
* «•')»
<
a
Jack's a man worth knowing
*
His growing family is no problem to him,
for he has mastered the art of living within
his income. To control his expenses he uses
an A.N.Z. Cheque Account, while the
youngsters are learning the value of thrift
through their A.N.Z. Savings Accounts.*
It’s surprising how living to a plan and
banking your money regularly, can bring
peace of mind and confidence.
* Our free booklet , "Bank Accounts for Every-
one,” is now available at all A.N.Z. Bank
branches. Ask for your copy.
A-N-Z
non
333
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED—Cheque Accounts
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LlMlTED—Savings Accounts
. ... -r r, |eSB ■■■—
the devaluation move, would
aliect those items.
that was one major point
on which the Government was
awaiting clarification.
‘ It has been reported from
overseas in the meantime that
raw-wool imports into France
will not be penalised by the
new exchange-rates. France’s
woollen industry is very
important to its economy.
The Government was also
awaiting further information
before being able to tell what
effect the decision would have
on Australian imports of
French goods.
The mam point exercising
the Government’s mind, how-
ever, is the new system of
multiple exchange-rates on
French exports ot wheat and
flour.
Dealing with this question,
Mr. Mctwen said France had
previously promoted the export
ot these commodities by export-
subsidies.
The effect of these had been
felt by the Australian trade in
various markets, particularly in
the U.K., and tms had been
taken into consideration when
the Austrahan-U.K. Trade
Agreement was drawn-up
earlier this year.
Mr. McEwen said it appeared
the new multiple exchange-
rate system was to replace the
export-subsidies plan.
The Minister commented
that, if this was the
position, it meant that Aus-
tralia's exports of these com-
modities were to be exposed to
the sort of competition that the
use of multiple exchange-rates
Fad made possible, and Aus-
tralia had already had the
unfortunate experience of such
competition in the case of the
Argentine.
Officials in Canberra claim
that the French decisions are
causing the Government no
little concern, particularly as
Australia now seems well on
the way to keeping itself on
the right side of the ledger in
overseas trading.
The Building Trade
TN The Bulletin of August
A 7, in attempting to answer
the question of when business
was likely to pick-up, it was
pointed out that, according to
factory statistics, it had picked-
up q little already, though any
movement either way, except
in specially affected industries,
was mostly marginal.
It appears that over the last
quarter of the year to June 30
last house- and flat-construction
has also picked-up, and at
rather a sharper rate than the
average rise for factory-
production.
Houses begun totalled 17,359
for the quarter, and this is the
highest figure since December,
1955. Houses finished during
the quarter numbered 16,202,
and this was 1130 better than
in the previous quarter, but
hardly better than the average
over recent years.
Though these figures are all
considerably below the 20,000
houses each quarter that was
common during the height of
the post-war building-boom,
the significant thing is that
they are an improvement on
the totals immediately pre-
ceding them, and could hardly
have been influenced by the
Commonwealth Bank’s rather
left-handed relaxation of
finance for housing in its
directive of May last.
In this directive to the
trading-banks the central bank
approved of “some moderate
increase in the volume of loans
for housing,” but only within
a policy of “no genejal increase
in bank loans.”
The most striking increase in
housing-construction recently,
however, has been under the
heading of “flats.” The number
of flats begun in the June
quarter was a record at 1230
and the number completed, 809,
compared with 492 in the pre-
ceding quarter, 867 in the
December period, and 666 for
the September quarter.
In view of the continuing
rent-restrictions in Sydney and
(less onerously) in Melbourne
it can be assumed that a fair
proportion of these new flats
are actually “home-units”
which at the moment are the
spec.-builder’s chief activity.
These “home-units” are sold
outright, not rented ; or they
may be “sold” on . a “loan”
basis by which the builder
escapes most of the taxation
that would be involved in
an outright sale at a profit.
But in any case they are rarely
rented in the normal way.
Until the Landlord and
Tenant Act is altered in most
States there is little attraction in
building solely for the purpose
of letting. And this appl es to
city buildings as well as private
residences.
New houses completed
during the first three quarters
of the 1956-57 financial year
were 15.6 p.c. lower in N.S.VV.
than in the same period of the
preceding financial year and
11.7 p.c. lower in Victoria. In
W.A. the slump was 39.8 p.c.
The recovery in the final
quarter, now disclosed, is there-
fore heartening.
City and industrial building
continued to slacken-off up to
the end of the March quarter,
Later figures are not yet
available.
But, on the whole, it has
been a quieter year in the
building industry. Employ-
rnent in the building-trade
itself showed a drop of 6000
hands during the year to May,
and there was a drop also in
the output of building-materials
during that period,
The building-trade is still one
of the most potent economic
influences in Australia. It is


i
to
£
(or short term £5 per year)
GENERAL CREDITS ™
Offers First Mortgage Debenture Stock
Interest paid quarterly free of exchange. Cumulative
stock carrying compounded on yearly rests with
currencies of 5 to 15 years. Prospectus available all
branches of The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited.
Members of Stock Exchanges and Offices of the company.
SHORT TERM
LONG TERM
12 months..
9 months . 4J
6 months . 4
3 months . 3i
5-10 years
4 years . . 6J
3 years . . 6
2 years . . 5|
72S>6
~ DIRECTORS:
Eric Hughes (Chairman). V. H. Stanley-Low (Man-
aging), J. F. Hughes J. M. Ford, F. G. Men/ies.
C.8.E., H. F. Clarke.
Bankers or the ssue :
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
This is nol a Prospectu and does not constitute an
invitation to subscribe for the debenture stock
mentioned herein.
also a touchy political subject,
made more so by rent-controls
which discourage building for
letting by people with money
to invest, and by the consequent
lamentations of people with
no money to invest in a home
and unable to get the credit
to finance one because of the
inflationary implications.
Until a realistic approach is
made to the letting problem all
over Australia there will be a
shortage of houses and
premises for renting, and, in
consequence, a housing
problem. Not every person is
instinctively a homeowner.
As Through a Glass Darkly
[From 1., Owen]
TTOWEVER convinced one
may be of the logic of
his deductions and of the
correctness of his theories, it
is always a satisfaction to
receive support from other
workers, particularly from
those dealing with problems
distinct from those being
tackled by oneself.
W. G. Woolnough, in a letter
to the press on the reasons for
the lack of snow reserves
and hence of water on the
mainland, points out that Aus-
tralia, in the geological as well
as in its faunal and floral
aspects, is unique.
The lack of permanently-
flowing rivers can be attributed
to the fact that
Australia missed both the Lara-
mide and Alpine mountain-foldings,
but instead was subjected to pro-
longed denudation such as no other
country in the world has e.v-
perienced.
Dr. Woolnough is a veteran
geologist with a wide and deep
knowledge of Australian field-
geology, second to that of no
living person. Incidentally, his
great services to the State have
received a shabby lack of recog-
nition, where men of far less
merit have been placed in
lucrative jobs and allotted
honors.
In these columns I have
often stressed the idiosyncrasies
of Australian geology, and I
have consistently claimed that
the solution of oil-finding
problems is not likely to be
reached by the application of
standard conceptions of the
manner of the occurrence of
petroleum.
The Laramide orogeny—
that is, mountain-building
movement —cited by Dr. Wool-
nough occurred in Late Creta-
ceous times. Its effect was felt
throughout an arc to the north
and east of Australia, extend-
ing from Malaya to New Zea-
land. The main Alpine
orogeny is dated in the Lower
and Middle Tertiary, and was
responsible for the island-arcs
of the Pacific. The structure of
the mainland was not sub-
stantially influenced by either
of these movements.
That is very different from
what happened in U.S.A.,
where the Laramide cycle
formed the Rockies and the
Andes, and in Europe, where
it resulted in the Pyrenees, the
Dinaric Alps, not to mention
the mighty Taurus in south-
western Asia. The main Alpine
cycle threw-up the Alps and
the Carpathians in Europe and
the Himalayas in Asia.
An earlier movement, which
Dr. Woolnough does not
mention—the Nevadan of the
Late Jurassic —caused the up-
thrusting of the Californian
Sierra Nevada, the African
Atlas, the Russian Caucasus,
and the mountains of Japan
and New Zealand ; it was little
felt in the eastern part of Aus-
tralia and had even less effect
in the west. In fact, the faint
reflections of the Nevadan
cycle which reached the Aus-
tralian massif caused little
more than regional elevation
with gentle warping.
In Western Australia, how-
ever, what it did was just suffi-
cient to lead to a costly explora-
tion of the Birdrong sandstone
on the mistaken assumption
that tiie Rough Range oil-show
was derived from Jurassic
source-beds.
As a whole, the geological
history of the Australian main-
land differs so much from that
of most of the petroliferous
areas of the rest of the world
that the guidance obtained
from “normal'’ oilfield experi-
ence can be used only with
great circumspection. To those
who have culled their know-
ledge of oil-finding from text-
books, the Australian search is
professionally dangerous.
The company operating in
Western Australia now agrees
that that State “provides some
of the most difficult problems
ever encountered.’’ It is send-
ing three of its experienced
exploration-men on an
advanced training-tour of three
months in the United States and
Canada, where “they will
study problems similar to
those encountered in Western
Australia.” That is all to the
good, but three months—and
even three years '— is quite
inadequate.
Very different from Dr.
Woolnough’s caution and
Western Australian agreement
is an article, published a few
days later than his letter in
the same newspaper, on the
oil and gas prospects of the
Sydney Basin. This quotes the
Minister for National Develop-
ment as saying that his depart-
ment “had proved the existence
of tell-tale sedimentary deposits
under the Sydney basin and
suggested that seismic prospect-
ing could be successful.”
I have given up trying to
work-out the implications of
that Delphic statement with
reference to the chances of
striking commercial gas—and,
much less, oil—within cooee
of the Harbor City.




WANT A GOOD TENANT?
“Bulletin” journalist, at
present paying 11 guineas a
week for flatette, would like
something bigger, cheaper,
suit two adults, no children,
preferably in inner Sydney
suburb. Must be able to use
typewriter at night. Bundles
of references from satisfied
landlords.
Ring 8U5971,
J. Fountain, 9 to 5.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Music
Joan Hammond
.Joan Hammond, back home
for the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust’s season of opera, showed
at her only Sydney recital that
her voice has taken on
added dramatic weight, and
that her interpretative art has
deepened and mellowed. Her
serene manner makes the most
difficult of arias seem effortless,
and sfcje seems to sing for the
sheer joy of singing.
In “O Silver Moon,” from
Dvorak’s “Rusalka,” strong
emotion and vivid drama were
drawn up into a memorable
climax; and drama also
swirled through “Weep Mine
Eyes” from Massenet’s “Le
Cid.” Also in the operatic
sphere were the anxious “Voi
La Sapete” from “Cavalleria
Rusticana” ; a fully rapturous
“One Fine Day” from “Butter-
fly” ; and the Neva Scene from
Tschaikowsky’s “Queen of
Spades.”
The singer’s easy mastery of
the legato phrase was mani-
fest in the beautifully serene
“If Thou Be Near,” by Bach ;
in the Schubert “Serenade”
(at a lower tempo than many
singers accord it); Martini’s
“Plaisir d’Amour” ; and
Mendelssohn’s “On Wings of
Song.”
Artbursts
Society of Artists
Enormous abstracts so
dominate the N. S. Wales
Society of Artists’ exhibition
at the Education Department
Gallery, Sydney,, that smaller
or more traditional works
have hardly a chance to be
seen.
Yet the very size of these
abstracts is suspicious. They
are well enough so far as they
go ; but only a painter of the
calibre of Lloyd Rees, as in
his massive “Coast and Coral
Trees,” is really capable of fill-
ing a huge canvas with sensitive
Emrys Jones, who takes the leading role (or roles ) in “Double
Image” at Sydney Royal. A Welshman (unless being born in
Manchester disqualifies him), he originated the leading roles in
“Dial M for Murder” and “The Hasty Heart,” has about 40 films
behind him and a stack of TV work in front of him when he
finishes his Australian season.
and durable paint; and artists
such as Lloyd Rees, who spent
years in apprenticeship to the
pencil before he expanded into
oils, do not grow on every
bush.
But under the shadow or
in the dazzle of the abstracts
a few paintings of more assured
quality do contrive to manifest
themselves: Jean Appleton’s
“Big and Little Fish,” Arthur
Murch’s nude, a panel of
Wakelins, Robin Croft’s “Omeo
Mountains,” Nora Heysen’s
“Corner of the Garden,”
Enid Cambridge’s sparkling
“Summer Morning,” Freda
Robertshaw’s “Gum Forest”
and Arnold Shore’s “Cliff
Face.”
A beechwood frogmouth by
Paul Beadle is worth looking
at -amongst the sculptures: it
is one of the few things in the
exhibition that will really look
back.
Watercolors
If genius doesn’t anywhere
knock you down in the Aus-
tralian Watercolor Institute's
exhibition at David Jones’
Gallery, Sydney, the show has
at least a pleasantly even
standard of technical excel-
lence and appreciative observa-
tion.
Frank McNamara’s skilfully
careless landscape; G. K.
Townshend at his best in the
stormy strength of “Cliff and
Shore,” and rather below it in
“Boatsheds”; John Eldershaw
also not at his best but still
pleasing in three landscapes;
Margaret Coen’s delicate
studies of bush flowers with a
touch of brighter color and
luminosity in “From the
Garden” ; Kenneth Jack’s
prismatic “Maribyrnong River,”
which leaves off at about the
point where Frank Hinder and
Thos. Cleghorn begin with
their abstracts; some quiet
studies by Dora Jarret;
Kenneth Macqueen’s glassy
transparencies; Margot
Lewers’s clever abstracts;!
Ronald Steuart’s four decora-
tive “Sea-pool Themes” —all
and any of these are paintings
which suggest they would sur-
vive more than the casual meet-
ing with them in an exhibition.
If, as already noted, genius
nowhere raises its contentious
head, some lesser abstracts in
the exhibition also remind one
that it’s nice to have genius
provided you can paint.
Films
‘‘This Could Be the Night”
A light, fresh comedy, with
Jean Simmons as an unsophisti-
cated young school-m’am, fresh
up from Massachusetts, who
takes a part-time job doing
secretarial work in a night-spot
of no conservative tastes called
“The Tonic.” Adjusting her-
self to an unfamiliar atmo-
sphere in the only way she
knows, she adopts a peremptory
air, which Paul Douglas (night-
club proprietor) loves, but
Anthony Franciosa (his young
partner) doesn’t.
Douglas is a would-be tough
with a heart as big as the head
that sits on a wide pair of
shoulders ; when Miss S. bullies
him in her clipped New
England accent over the food
he eats and his taste in neck-
ties he chuckles like a proud
father. Franciosa, on the other
hand, is young and handsome
and has a flat above the club,
the steps to which are well-
worn by dainty placements of
high-heels. He is not one for
the elegant in females.
Therein lies the comic
element, with the Simmons girl
at first in dire trouble with the
night-spot e'ements; then as
much a part of the place as the
cigar-smoke; then sacked,
resigned and reinstated ; then
protected by each of the pro-
prietors, in turn, against the
other; then —and this is the


Now even faster handling of bulk grain!
LYSAGHT
Groin Augers
A completely new type now available to
fill and empty Lysagbt Silos. Features
include:
• Unique centre drive unit (Patent pend-
ing No. 22636/St) as shown in insert
below.
• Improved capacity.
• All working parts completely encased .
• Adjustable chute tube.
z&z&W- i
OUTPUT
HtHiH
CLEANING
HOl,e AND
COVER
®
mt
DRIVING
PULLEY
01
i l.
■ • ~
INPUT
i
m*
n
-tE
V^x>/sVv£ ; *S
* •
mr.
« si o <;
x«aas
HOW TO SELECT A VERTICAL AUGER TO FIT
A LYSAGHT SILO —CENTRE FILLING ONLY
SILO
ERECTED
SILO CAPACITY IN BUSHELS
1,000 2,000 2,000 3,000 3,500 4,500 8,500
(squat)
Without Earth Ring VI6IO V 2012 V 2412 V 2412 V 2814 V 3214 V 3614
With Earth Ring .... V 2012 V 2012 V 2814 V 2814 V 2814 V 3214 V4OlB
AUGER
PRICE (F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
¥l6lO £l4B
¥2012 £154
¥2412 ..... £l6O
¥2814 £167
¥3214 .......... £175
¥3614 £179
¥4OlB £lB9
SILO AND EARTH RING PRICES
(F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
Write for further information to:
JOHN LYSA6HT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. in all Capital Cities or
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE WORKS
A39C
night! —in love with Franciosa.
All this in a mixture of
Runyonese and the slick
vakkita of “The Moon Is Blue.”
Paul Douglas is comfortably
at home in his role; Jean
Simmons plays the comedy so
well that one wonders if she
hasn’t been wasted in those
numerous throbbing dramas;
and Anthony Franciosa is a
new boy with charm enough to
put Cary Grant out of business.
The support parts —from Julie
Wilson’s sexy singer to the
Indian boy in strife with his
algebra (Rafael Campos)—
are acted with engaging natural-
ness. At Sydney St. James.
♦♦♦ *i+
“Smiles of a Summer
Night”
If this Swedish comedy
more precisely French farce
a la Swede —is to be taken as
a work of art, which, it seems,
as a sort of sequel to “One
Summer of Happiness,” it must,
it is in many ways disappoint-
ing, and only the delicate touch
of producer Ingmar Bergman
prevails. But if it is to be taken
on face-value for a comedy of
morals that fluctuates between
fantasy and near-farce, and for
its skittish naughtiness, it is
quite delightful—Neil Harvey
batting cheekily when runs and
his wicket aren’t important;
cleverly escaping the point of
being rude.
An eminent middle-aged
lawyer is married to a girl still
in her teens ; despite his charm
and experience and the fact
that they each think they are in
love, he is at a loss with the
girl, so that she remains, as
it were, untouched. For advice
on this delicate problem he
goes to his bosomy ex-mistress,
an actress who played his Juliet
in the time between the death
of his first wife and his second
marriage. The ex-mistress
complicates things by having
as her lover a very military
count, whose own wife is very
much in love with him. Add
a saucy chambermaid with a
feeling for her employer (the
lawyer), and the lawyer’s son
(a cleric), the most forlorn
character ever to play comedy,
and you have a plot with frills.
The ex-mistress contrives to
unlace the frills: she invites
them all to her mother’s
country manor, where a lively
romp eventuates, garnished by
a game of Russian roulette, an
attempted suicide, croquet,
affairs in the boudoir, haystack
and outhouse, and an elope-
ment. Out of all this, the
young wife gets her husband’s
son; the countess, rather ironi-
cally, gets her count; the
chambermaid gets a bawdy old
peasant; and the ex-mistress
gets the lawyer,- as she had
contrived.
The acting is of a high
standard: Ulla Jacobsen, as the
young wife, is sweet and
evasive; Gunnar Bjornstrand,
as her husband, is what one
might expect of a turn-of-the-
century Scandinavian lawyer—
most dignified when he is
flabbergasted, a character from
Chekhov improved by his
surroundings *, Eva Dahlbeck,
a determined mistress; Harriet
Anderson, an even more
determined countess; Jarl
Kulle, a count who is militarily
erect, yet debonair and moody.
It is enjoyable to be won


THIS IS YOUR
BEST INVESTMENT
BARGAIN
The investment .world recognises that unduly high returns may
he accompanied by a corresponding lack of security or assurance
of continuing income. Commonwealth Loans offer investors
a good, steady return « • • full protection of their capital,
through an unconditional Commonwealth guarantee of
repayment at full face value on maturity • • • and regular
payment of interest at the stipulated rate for the full period
of the investment. The net yield (after taxation) is considerably
increased by an Income Tax rebate* of 2/- in each £1 of
Commonwealth Loan interest included in an investor’s taxable
income. Lodge your application now through any bank, savings
bank or stockbroker . ,
* Not exceeding the amount of tax otherwise payabls.
YOU MAY SELECT FROM
5% SECURITIES Issued at par
Maturing April 15,
1965
Maturing April 15,
1976
Minimum Subscription, £lO
f 4% SECURITIES
" Issued at £99/5/- per cent, yielding
£4-9-0% per annum
Maturing May 15,
1959
L Minimum Subscription, £lOO4
INVEST NOW IN THE NEW
COMMONWEALTH
SECURITY LOAN
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT IN ALL STATES
CONVERT 3f% COMMONWEALTH SECURITIES which matured August 15, 1957,
into new Bonds or Inscribed Stock on the terms offered for the new Cash Loan
Issued by the Commonwealth Treasury.
295L4.27E
over by the skilful black-and-
white photography of the film,
but just as annoying to be
inconvenienced by the inade-
quacy of the English sub-titles,
especially where one feels that
there is something really worth
hearing. At Sydney Savoy.
*l* ❖
“The Bad Seed”
There is dramatic intensity in
almost every foot of this fine
screen-version of the Maxwell
Anderson play which provo-
catively and plausibly argues
the possibility (denied by the
medical profession) that a
person can be born morally
“blind.”
In this case the fatal defi-
ciency comes down through the
female line, missing one genera-
tion and hitting the next, a
10-year-old girl who, without
arousing suspicion, sends an
old lady toppling down a flight
of stairs and drowns a small
boy. The one-too-many comes
when she sets fire to the bed of
the mentally-defective handy-
man who stumbles on her
secret. The film’s one weakness
is in its melodramatic ending.
The acting is largely in the
hands of the original stage-
cast, and distinguished per-
formances include Eileen
Heckart’s vignette of bitterness
as the grief-stricken mother of
the drowned boy, Henry
Jones’s leering handyman,
Nancy Kelly’s portrayal of the
mother who makes the horrify-
ing discovery of her daughter’s
enormities and desperately
seeks a way to end them, Evelyn
Varden’s fat, talkative and
stupid landlady, and Patty Mc-
Cormack’s cleverly sustained
mixture of premature hardness
and shrewd smooging as the
child. At Sydney Century.
“Paris Does Strange
Things”
Jean Renoir has selected a
poor vehicle for his talents in
this tepid tale of a popular
French general of the ’eighties
who becomes the pawn of two
power-hungry political factions,
one of which co-opts the
charms of an exiled Polish
princess to win him over.
Other than Ingrid Bergman,
who, as the Princess, is always
polished and assured, the
players appear unable to over-
come the deficiencies in the
script. Mel Ferrer, whose role
is never firmly defined, and
Jean Marais, as the general,
seem to be groping their way
through the plot’s complexities
as if they were walking through
a minefield. At Sydney Paris.


The Man on the Land
needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who will conserve
his Estate for those whom, under his Will, he desires to benefit
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY has for over sixty-five
years successfully managed country estates. The Company’s
extensive organisation and wide experience ensures that the
interests of its clients will receive every safeguard and attention.
XV'
ft
#v* ?>
t.
a
■»» v»
r^
I""";". ■•
~ n " — ' - *
Ensure for your
Estate the benefit of
this experience and
obtain for your
beneficiaries the pro-
tection of capital
and assets exceeding
£1,000,000.
Write for a free explanatory booklet.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS)
G. B. Kater (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, O.R.E.
(Vice-Chairman )
A. B. Bond J. R. Faviell
F. B. Fleming C. H. Locke
Manager: F. R. Garland
Assistant Manager: M. A. Foulcher
Secretary: P. H. Andrews
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23*28 O’Connell St., Sydney
Associate Company)
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT.IIBA.IS
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
IX7HILE the improvement in Australia’s
balance-of-payments over the last
financial year added much - needed
strength to the country’s overseas reserves
it did little to help the central bank in its
task of regulating the level of bank-
credit. As a counter to the increased
lending-potential of the banks, following
the improvement in export-income, the
central bank siphoned-off £BO
million from the trading-bank system,
increasing the total amount held in special
accounts from £260 million to £340
million. For the first three-quarters of the
year deposits tended to grow, but the
strictly-controlled advances declined and,
while the last quarter saw a reversal of this
movement, the year ended with tight
money conditions prevailing.
Conforming to the general pattern, the
latest accounts of the 91-year-old C.B.A.
(covering the year to June 30 last) reveal
a substantial increase in deposits (up
£14,230,492) and a relatively small
(£3,155,855) addition to advances:
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
• £ £ £
Preference .. 2,117,350 2,117,350 2,117,350
Ordinary .. 3,052,934 4,105,868 4,105,868
Reserves .. 3,306,559 3,834,998 3,848,0*26
Nctfes .. .. 5,102 5,102 5,101
Deposits, etc.* 190,414,198 190,841,285 205,071,777
Other banks .. 3,023 33,074 2,028,774
Pinal divs. .. 194,994 247,640 247,640
199,094,160 2*01,185,317 217,424,536
Liquid assets.. 55,471,826 60,118,851 63,319,458
Special deposits'
central bank 28,748.000 26,248,000 35,148.000
Advances .. 110,648,088 109,392,210 112,548,065
Bank premises 4,226,246 5,250,684 5,606,378
Other assets .. 175,572 802,635
199,094,160 201,185,317 217,424,536
* Includes bills, provision for taxation and other
contingencies.
The ratio of advances to deposits
slipped from 57.3 p.c. to 54.8 p.c., and
of the extra funds thus available the
central bank called-up £8,900,000, taking
the special account to £35,148,000, and
£3,200,607 went into liquids, the two
combining to equal 48 p.c. of deposits
(against the previous term’s 45.3 p.c.),
liquids alone equalling 30.8 p.c. The
main factor behind the leap in “other
assets” (up £627,063) was the acquisition
early last term of a 45 p.c. shareholding
in the Melbourne-controlled hire-purchase
financier General Credits, Ltd., which has
paid a 10 p.c. div. in each of the last
three years.
With 734 branches and agencies, the
C.B.A. offers banking facilities through-
out Australia and New Zealand, handling
approximately 12 p.c. of all trading-
bank business in Australia. Ord. capital
has more than doubled since 1953, share-
holders, including pref.-shareholders, who
participate in new issues, being offered
2,105,868 10s. ords. at a premium of
7s. 6d. in July, ’53, and two years later
the same number again, this time on a
one-for-three basis at a 50 p.c. premium.
These issues brought paid capital to
£6,223,218, of which £2,117,350 is in
4 p.c. prefs. cumulative to 3 p.c. (a relic
of the bank-crash of the ’nineties). Ord.
divs. have been steady at 10 p.c. since
1949, but as the bulk of the share-capital
was raised at a stiff premium the actual
return to shareholders is considerably
lower.
Gross income, £1,980,339 in 1947, rose
by £293,435 to £7,124,205 last term, but
higher expenses, salaries, etc., limited the
improvement in net earnings to £2601:
Dividends. Written
June, Profit. Ordinaries.* Off. Reserve#.
1951.. 336,012 10 p.c. = 200,000 35,000 2,407,262
1952.. 340,563 10 „ ~200,000 45,000 2,418,131
1953.. 421,345 10 ~ ~200,000 125,000 2,429,782
Share premiums, £750 000 .. .. 3,179,782
1954.. 500.221 10 p.e. - 268,150 435,000 3,192,159
1955.. 554,387 10 „ ~305,293 60,000 3,306,559
Share premiums, £510,000 .. .. 3,816,559
1956.. 555,708 10 p.c. = 402,575 50,000 3,834,998
1957.. . 558,309 10 „ „ 410,587 50,000 3,848,026
* In addition, there has been a regular preference
dividend of 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each year. '
The £558,309 profit, claimed after provid-
ing £798,377 (up £33,151) for income, land
and other taxes, covered the pref. div.
and 11.5 p.c. on ord. capital, compared
with 11.7 p.c. on the preceding term’s
average capital and 15.4, 15.4, 16.8 and
12.8 p.c. back to 1952. On average
shareholders’ funds the return was a
modest 5.4 p.c. The amount written-off
premises was unchanged at £50,000 to
bring the total written-off over the last
five years to £410,000.
At 19s. the 10s. ords. return 5.2 p.c.
from a 10 p.c. div., the £lO 4 p.c. prefs.
at £7 4s. yielding 5.6 p.c. as well as giving
the right to participate in new issues.
Book-values give the prefs. a net tangible
backing of £47 11s. 4d. and the ords.
19s. sd.
A bill to modify the present central-
bank structure and the special-account
system is to be introduced at the next
session of Federal Parliament, and this
may give the trading-banks a greater
degree of freedom, as well, perhaps, as a
chance to obtain a higher return from
their large frozen accounts.
Patons & Baldwins (Aust.), Ltd.
T\ESPITE a 37.7 p.c. leap in net eam-
ings last term, the board of Patons
and Baldwins (Australia), Ltc£, stuck to
the “conservative” div.-policy laid down
in 1951, when the newly-formed co. took
over the Australian interests of Patons
and Baldwins, Ltd. (U.K.). This frugal
outlook is quickly achieving its chief
purpose the buttressing of share-
capital with substantial reserves—s 7.3
p.c. of the last five years’ earnings being
retained in the business, wiping-out
intangibles and adding over £1,000,000 to
shareholders’ funds.
Fluctuating wool prices have been
largely responsible for variations in the
eaming-rate over the co.’s six years of
trading, an extensive writing-down of
stocks in the first term causing the
omission of the ord. div. A 6 p.c. div.
went out in 1953, “bonus” additions
raising the rate to 1\ p.c. in 1956 and
8y p.c. last term.
Patons and Baldwins (Australia)
carries on a business established in this
country towards the end of last century.
Registered in Victoria, the co. operates
a big mill at Launceston (Tasmania)
where locally-purchased wool is con-
verted into high-grade hand-knitting and
embroidery wools, as well as into yarn
for use by the textile-industry. A mer-
chandising section handles a number of
local and imported lines, including


angora yarns, rug- and tapestry-canvas,
knitting-needles, etc.
On formation the co. bought the net
tangible assets of its English parent’s
Australian branch for £3,879,016, pay-
ing £1,000,000 in f.-p. ords. and £1,200,W0
in cash, the balance (£1,679,016) being
regarded as an interest-free loan repayable
in 1976 (although the co. has exercised
its right to earlier part-repayments).
Shortly after formation 750,000 £l5 p.c.
prefs. and 500,000 £1 ords. were offered
to the public at par to make paid
capital £2,250,000.
Demand for P. and B.’s products
strengthened last term (to April 27 last),
resulting in a further improvement in
turnover, while the heavy expenditure on
plant over the past few years facilitated
the necessary. increase in production as
well as leading to greater manufactur-
ing efficiency. The wool - market
remained firm throughout the term, so
there was no need for the costly stock-
adjustments which had affected earnings
on two previous occasions, net profit
jumping by £140,059 to £511,070 after
providing £382,000 * (up £68,800) for
taxation and £68,097 (up £28,940) for
depreciation:
r Dividends \
Pref. To Re-
May, Profit. 5 p.c. f Ord. serves. Deficit.
£* £* jp. p. £
Preliminary exes., etc., £49,727 .. 49,727
Profit sale assets, £8339 .. . . 41,388
1952.. 38,194 29,025 Nil 9,169 32,219
Added intangibles, £203 .. ~ 32,422
Tax overprovided, £30,251 .. .. 2,171
Reserves.
1953.. 37,500 6 = 90,000 202,105 ,199,934
Tax overprovided, etc., £66,454 . . 266,358
1954.. 37,500 6 = 90,000 132,904 399,292
Profit sale assets, £619 .. .. 399,911
Tax overprovided, £7B .. .. .. 399,989
1955.. 161.740 37,500 6 = 90,000 34,240 434,229
Tax overprovided, £2OO . . . . 434,429
1956.. 011 37,500 74 = 112,500 221,011 655,440
Tax overprovided, £3996 .. .. 659,436
1957.. 37,500 84 = 127,500 346,070 1,005,506
The record profit was enough to cover
the 5 p.c. pref. div. and equal 31.5 p.c.
on ord. capital, as against 22.2, 8.3, 14.8
and 19.4 p.c. in the four preceding years.
The 1 p.c. added to the div.-rate (to make
8| p.c.) took an extra £15,000 (or only
10.6 p.c. of the improvement in earnings),
a substantial £346,070 going to reserves.
Capital-expenditure continued at a high
level throughout the term, £232,000 being
added to the conservative book-value
of fixed assets, which, when taken over
in 1951 for £320,314, were insured for
£2,251,672. This “hidden reserve” adds
strength to an already sound financial
structure:
Capital— -4955. 1956. 1957.
Pref £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Ord 1.500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Reserves .. . . 434,229 655,440 1,005,506
Deferred liabilitv. . 1,678,946 1,600,000 1,450,000
Creditors .. .. 135,797 375,906 432,993
Tax reserve .. 103,339 313,639 383,352
Final divs. .. 90,000 131,250 146,250
£4,692,311 £5,326,235 £5,668,101
Freeholds.. .. 316,390 374,991 447,202
Plant .. 295,255 474,984 634,773
Stocks .. .. 1,905,847 1,791,534 2,022,117
Debtors .. .. 1,094,581 1,390,347 1,632,483
Cash, etc 1.080,238 1,294,379 931,526
£4,692,311 £5,326,235 £5,668,101
The board took advantage of the pros-
perous year to reduce the debt to the
parent co. by £150,000 and, drawing on
liquids to the extent of £362,853, ended
the busy term with an extra £230,583 in
stocks (lower of cost or market) and
£242,136 in debtors.
Turnover has continued to improve in
the current term, and, if wool prices hold,
another successful year is indicated.
However, the Australian-Japanese trade-
agreement suggests stiffer competition for
the wool-textile industry, and share-
holders were warned at the annual meet-
ing last month that it would be “over-
optimistic” to expect last term’s earning-
rate to be maintained in the current year.
Book-values give a net tangible cover
of £4 6s. lOd. to the prefs. and 335. sd.
to the f.-p. £1 ords. At 16s. the prefs.
yield 6.2 p.c., the ords. at 345. 6d. return-
ing 4.9 p.c. from a continued 8i p.c. div.
The profit applicable to ord. shareholders
last term represented 18.3 p.c. of the
current market-value of ord. capital.
Swans, Ltd. (Sydney)
A LTHOUGH the rate of home-con-
struction slackened last term, higher
operating expenses rather than a fall in
demand appear to be responsible for the
lower net profit earned during the year to
May 31 last by Swans, Ltd., of Sydney.
The 58-year-old builders’-hardware
merchant has a paid capital of £577,144
(including £25,000 in 6 p.c. prefs.), a one-
for-two bonus-issue (1951) and cash-issues
at par (one-for-two, 1954) and at a 50 p.c.
premium (two for nine, 1955) adding
£351,524 to the total in less than five
years. The co. fared well in the post-
war scramble for building-materials, ord.
divs. averaging 15 p.c. over the five years
to 1951, dropping to 12| p.c. for the four
years following the bonus-issue. Condi-
tions were less favorable during the 1955-
56 term, reducing the return from the
newly-enlarged share-capital and bring-
ing an unexpected cut (to 10 p.c.) in the
div.-rate.
From headquarters in the inner-city,
Swans has operated branches in the
suburbs of Parramatta and Hurstville for
over 20 years, and in recent years has
opened a third suburban store at Chats-
wood, as well as a branch at Wollongong,
on the N.S.W. South Coast.
All branches produced “quite satis-
factory” results last term, and, while
import-restrictions kept certain lines in
short supply, overall turnover improved.
However, operating-expenses, pushed up
by “basic-wage variations,” made-off with
a larger share of gross earnings, to leave
net profit £3787 lower at £79,010, after
providing £10,895 (up £1356) for deprecia-
tion and an undisclosed amount for taxa-
tion :
t Dividends Re-
Mav, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1948 .. 28,427 6 15 15,339 73,874
Premium on shares, £31,333.. 105,207
1949 .. 34,524 6 15 18,223 121,508
Premium on shares, £6266 .. 127,774
1950 .. 44,602 6 15 23,829 148,547
Revaluation assets, £66,071 .. 214,618
Reserves capitalised, £ 101,192.. 113,426
1951 .. 63,787 6 15 36,146 141,067
1952' .. 70,658 6 121 39,227 172,498
1953 . . 68,328 6 124 39,226 201.000
1954 . . 72,442 6 124 39,227 234,815
1955 .. 80,125 6 124 48,642 266.298
Share-premiums, £49,839 .. 316,137
To staff fund, £10,000.. .. 306,137
1956 .. 82,797 6 10 49,862 339,072
1957 .. 79,010 6 10 56,714 361,368
The earning-rate slipped for the third
year in succession, the profit after cover-
ing the pref. div. representing a return
of 14 p.c. on ord. capital compared with
16.8, 20.2, 23.5, 22.1 and 22.9 p.c. in the
five years back to 1952. Ord. div. wa3
unaltered at 10 p.c.
During the year construction of new
premises at Chatswood was begun,
and the building is now nearing comple-
tion, the book-value of fixed assets (partly
’5l valuation, partly cost, less deprecia-
tion) increasing by a net £42,308 over the
term:
Paid capital— . 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref £25,000 £25,000 £25,000
Ord 452,467 552,144 552,144
Reserves .. .. 266,298 339,072 361,308
Creditors .. .. 275,804 238,157 260,201
Staff fund .. 10,000
Tax provision .. 56,130 73,544 62,658
Final divs. .. 32,802 26,488 28,357
£1,108,501 £1,264,405 £1,289,728
Freeholds, plant,
etc 287,193 321,359 363,667
Stocks .. .. 516,676 541,215 571,238
Debtors . . .. 295,643 332,363 322,467
Cash and invest-
ments .. .. 8,989 69,468 32,356
£1,108,501 £1,264,405 £1,289,728
To carry an extra £30,023 in stocks and
cover the expenditure on fixed assets the
co. increased its indebtedness to creditors
by £22,044 and cut into holdings
of cash, etc. (down £37,112), working-
capital dropping by £20,012 to £574,845.
Interruptions to'trading at Chatswood
will cease with completion of the new
building, and improved results can be
expected from this store. Keenly com-
petitive conditions can be expected to
continue in the current term, but a lot
will depend on the extent to which the
co. can keep expenses in check.
The f.-p. £1 ords. have a net tangible
backing of 335. Id. and at 345. 9d. would
return 5.8 p.c. from a 10 p.c. div.
Brooklands (Holdings), Ltd.
1948 the number of motpr-
vehicles on Australian roads has
more than doubled, providing distributors
of automotive spare-parts and accessories
with a rapidly expanding market. In
addition, the development of the local
automotive industry has minimised the
effect of import-restrictions on stocks,
enabling distributors —such as Brook-
lands (Holdings), Ltd. —to take full advan-
tage of the growing market, with conse-
quent gains in both turnover and earn-
ings, Brooklands’ net profit shooting
from £13,405 to £109,993 over the five
years to 1952.
The principal subsidiary in the Brook-
lands group, Brooklands Accessories
Pty., was formed as an offshoot of Allied
Motor Interests, Ltd., in 1923 but out-
grew its subsidiary status six years later,
the public acquiring an interest in 1938.
In 1955 ord.-shareholders exchanged their
scrip on a one-for-two basis, for ss. ords.
in the newly-formed Brooklands (Hold-
ings), which now controls five subsidiaries
handling and servicing motor-vehicle
parts, especially electrical and mechanical
equipment. The subsidiaries operate from
Sydney and Melbourne with seven
country branches (six in Victoria, one
in N.S.W.).
The parent has a paid capital of
£519,719, of which £25,000 carries a
fixed 7 p.c. In the five years preceding
the incorporation of the present holding
co. ord. divs. averaged 17| p.c., the div.-
rate on the more-or-less bonus-enlarged


Invest in a well-established
MANUFACTURING COMPANY
FERRIS INDUSTRIES
LIMITED ( Paid-up Capital £235,000)
MAIN TRADING SUBSIDIARY
FERRIS BROS. PTY. LTD.
will be pleased to accept
Short Term Deposits
per annum for Em Y E A R S
%
1%
per annum for (YEAR
1
yW per annum for 6 M T H S
INTEREST PAYABLE | YEARLY
w %
Additional working capital
is required to finance the
manufacture of Ferris Tele-
vision Receivers, Ferris Car
Radios, Channel Master
Television Aerials, acces-
sories and component parts.
For further details and form of application
’phone, write or send coupon
To Secretary, FERRIS INDUSTRIES Ltd.,
752 Pittwater Rd., Brookvale, XW 0221.
Please send me details of Short Term Deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
8.218
capital now employed dropping
to a well-covered 15 p.c.
Group turnover (undisclosed)
increased “slightly” during the
year to April 30 last, gross
earnings rising by £25,266 to
£606,774, but higher expenses
(up £24,851 to £377,182) took
most of the gain, to leave net
profit only £127 stronger at
£124,018:
Brooklands Accessories and
Subsidiaries.
t Dividends y
Pref. Re-
April, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. ~ serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £
Tax overprovided, etc., £1521 296,700
1953. .111,787 1750 174 38,478 368,349
Tax overprovided, £21,966 390,315
1954.,117,856 1750 174 38,478 467,943
Profit sale assets, £941 .. 468,884
Tax overprovided, £159 .. 469,043
Unexplained reduction, £1978 467,065
1955. .128,356 1750 174 54,969 538,702
Brooklands (Holdings), Ltd., and
Subsidiaries.
Less “goodwill,” etc., on re-
organisation, £164,899 .. 373,803
Profit sale assets, £3292 377,095
Tax overpvovided, etc., £270 377,365
Preliminary expenses w/off,
£.4628 372,737
1956 k.. 3 23,891 1750 15 74,208 420,670
Profit sale assets, £1753 .. 422,423
Tax underprovided, £1643.. 420,780
To stiitt tund, £i5,000 .. 405,780
1957. .124,018 1750 15 74,208 453,840
‘After deducting intangibles, £187,038
at 30/4/’57.
The earnings, claimed after
providing £86,200 (down £700)
lor taxation and £18,347 (up
£1446) for depreciation,
covered the pref. div. and 24.7
p.c. on ord. capital, compared
with 24.7 p.c. in the preceding
term and 40.3, 52.8 and 49.2
p.c. on the Brooklands
Accessories capital in the three
years back„to 1953.
New premises were com-
pleted during the term for the
fast-growing subsidiary, Start-
ing Lighting ’lgnition Pty.,
which holds franchises granted
by two welLknown English
cos., Joseph Lucas Industries-
and S. Smith and Sons, approxi-
mate cost of land and buildings,
etc., amounting to £160,000.
Last term’s share of this
expenditure lifted the book-
value of fixed assets by £78,132,
and, to help finance the capital-
outlay, a £75,000 mortgage-
loan (repayable over 10 years)
was obtained from the A.M.P.
Society. This added liability
was, however, accompanied by
a £107,153 drop in the amount
owing to trade-creditors:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1956. 1957.
Pref £25,000 £25,000
Ord 494,719 494,719
Reserves* .. 436,570 469,740
Mortgage .. 73,750
Overdraft 44,221 41,007
Creditors, etc. .. 311,061 203,908
Staff fund .. 15,000 30,000
Tax provision .. 86,900 139,744
Final divs. .. 50,347 50,347
£1,463,818 £1,528,215
Freeholds .. 279,338 337,375
Leaseholds .. 13,693 13,213
Plant and fittings 102,260 122,835
Stocks .. .. 647,606 624,776
Debtors .. 403,738 412,652
Cash .. .. 1,283 1,464
Goodwill •« 15,900 15,900
£1,463,818 £1,528,215
Efficient control kept stocks
(down £22,830) at “satisfac-
tory” levels, the co. ending the
term with working-capital
£28,788 lower at £545,098.
The board’s plans for further
expansion involve the establish-
ment of additional country
branches, and construction of a
warehouse at Tamworth
(N.S.W.) was recently com-
menced following a successful
year’s trading at the first
N.S.W. country branch opened
at Orange during the 1955-56
term.
Supported by net tangible
assets of 9s. 7d. the f.-p. ss.
ords. sold recently at 13s. Id.
to return 5.7 p.c. from a con-
tinued 15 p.c. div.
John A. Gilbert Holdings,
Ltd.
'THE sustained demand for
Holden vehicles has pro-
tected distributors of the Aus-
tralian car from many of to-
day’s trading difficulties, and,
while strong competition may
trim profit-margins in the
current year, Holden dis-
tributors, in general, can look
forward to yet another success-
ful term and an even larger
share of the new-car market.
In 1955‘ 26.9 p.c. of all new
cars registered were Holdens,
the ratio rising to 34.6 p.c.
in 1956 and reaching 40.3 p.c.
(involving the sale of an addi-
tional 6723 cars) over the first
half of 1957.
One of the four Holden dis-
tributors in the Sydney metro-
politan area, the 31-year-old
John A. Gilbert organisation
has expanded rapidly since it
hitched its wagon to the Holden
star in 1948 and dropped the
title of Reo Motors Pty. How-
ever, the public had to wait
until January, 1955, before scrip
in the parent co. was available
on ’Change, the co. (John A.
Gilbert Holdings, Ltd.) offering
shareholders 416,972 ss. ords.
at par (two-forffive) shortly
after listing and another 464,976
ords. at par in the following
year on a three-for-10 basis.
Paid capital, £557,717, includes
£50,000 in 6 p.c. prefs. partici-
pating with ords. to 8 p.c.
In addition to trading in
new and used vehicles, spare-
parts, etc., the group also pro-
vides hire-purchase and leas-
ing facilities for its clients,
and, through the subsidiary Bus
Lines of Australia Pty., operates
a fleet of buses between a
number of N.S.W. country
centres.
When dealing with last term’s
figures the board dropped its
earlier practice of announcing
the number of vehicles , sold
and merely stated that vehicle
sales “were on a par” with those
of the previous year, when
2550 units were sold, Including
hire-purchase acceptances, turn-
over for the year (to March
31, ’57) rose by £778,956 to
£3,857,520, the finance sub-
sidiary contributing “substan-
tially” to earnings in its first
full year of operation. Higher
costs led to some contraction
in returns from the chief sub-
sidiary (John A. Gilbert Pty.)
and Bus Lines of Australia,
profits, before tax, sljpping
from 6.3 p.c. to 5.06 p.c. of
turnover. Net earnings were
down by £3571 at £112,420
after providing £82,932 (up
£3294) for taxation and
£26,073 (up £10,817) for depre-
ciation :
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends Re-
Mch., Profit. Pref. f~ —Old. y serve*.*
6-8 p.c.
£ £ p.e. £ £
’55..100,345 4000 15 = 39.092' 92.893
Share-issue expenses, £2171 90,722
Profit sale assets, £9322.. 100,044
’50..115,991 4000 16 = 56,426 165,609
Share premiums, £11,308 .. 166,917
Share-issue exp., etc., £2194 164,723
’57..112,420 4000 15 = 62,556 210,587
* Subject to intangibles, £101,351,
31/3/’57.
Ord. div. remained at 15 p.c.


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
C.l. Australian and Overseas Patents
and Trade Mark's.—Advt.
&
H. '
-S'-
\.
"p
:
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
AUSTRALIA'S LARGEST &
MOST FRIENDLY HOTEL
THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
Superb accommodation, fine food
and genuine hospitality make The
Hotel Metropole your “home away
from home”—where your comfort
and well-being have first considera-
tion. Conveniently situated in the
heart of the city, this spacious hotel
offers you service plus comfort —the
opportunity to relax and yet be
within easy reach of theatres,
business offices, transport, etc. Next
time you are in Sydney stay at The
Hotel Metropole and experience this
new service and inspect the improved
facilities —50 bedrooms with private
bathrooms, five newly decorated
banquet rooms, quiet comfortable
lounge, magnificent Dining-room.
The Hotel Metropole
"THE COUNTRYMAN'S
HOME IN SYDNEY"
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
for the fourth year in succes-
sion, earnings covering the 8
p.c. pref. div. and 26 p.c. on
average ord. capital, as against
30.7 p.c. and 36.9 p.c. in the
two preceding terms. On paid
capital as it now stands un-
changed ord. and pref. divs.
would require £79,856, or
£32,564 less than last term’s
showing. The co. gathered in
£11,308 of share-premiums
during the year, following the
issue of scrip at a 50 p.c.
premium as part-consideration
for a suburban business and
freehold.
Part of the new capital intro-
duced during the term went
into the development of
suburban properties and the
replacement of portion of the
omnibus fleet, the cost-less-
depreciation book - value of
fixed assets increasing by a net
£97,730:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957.
Pref. capital .. £50,000 £50,000
Ord. capital .. 364,863 469,185
Reserves .. .. 155,609 210,587
Mortgages, etc. . • 23,355 48,927
Overdraft •• 26.504 97,421
Creditors .. 118,557 115,501
Deposits •• 29,059 28,381
Provisional tax .. 135,925 157,831
Final div. •• 31,061 35,495
£934,933 £1,213,328
Freeholds, etc. .. 102,596 128,807
Plant ... .. 62,928 134,447
Stock .. .. 229,926 291,975
Debtors .. .. 442,743 551,926
Cash, etc. .. 3,986 4,822
Goodwill, etc. .. 92,754 101,351
£934,933 £1,213,328
Amounts due to the group
under hire-purchase agreements
were entirely responsible for
the jump in book-debts (up
£109,183), and to assist in
financing the £269,798 growth
in tangible assets (including an
extra £62,049 in stocks) the co.
borrowed an additional
£70,917 from the bank and in-
creased its long-term liabilities
by £25,572.
A greater volume of Holdens
will be available from the
manufacturers in the current
term and the board expects to
lift vehicle sales by 25 p.c. but
at the same time anticipates
that “intense competition” will
prevent a comparable increase
in earnings.
The f.-p. ss. ords. have a net
tangible backing of 6s. Id. and
at Bs. Id. would return 9.3 p.c.
from a 15 p.c. distribution.
Timor and Westralia
[From Li. Owen]
TNVARIABLY it has been my
policy not to give advice on
methods of attempting to
make easy money by specula-
tion in oil shares, my sole
interest being in the prospects
of commercial petroleum in the
areas held by the several com-
panies and not in the value of
their scrip as gambling-chips.
I have, however, received so
many queries within the last
few weeks with reference to
Timor Oil that I will attempt
to answer some of the ques-
tions in a general way, although
1 feel that I may be skating on
very thin ice near the deep
water of broken resolutions.
To start with, let me say
that there is no logical reason
why Timor Oil shares —nor
those of any oil company at a
similar stage of development—
should command a price above
par. It is obvious that most- of
the people who buy such
inflated stock do so in the
hope that they will be able to
sell them, at a still more
swollen figure, to someone less
discriminating than themselves.
The Australian punter in
petroleum ventures is a whale
for punishment and has a very
short memory !
Can he recall, in November,
1953, when “ozokerite” was
struck in Western Australia,
that the prices of shares in the
company concerned (and in
most other Australian oil com-
panies having not the most
remote geological or financial
connection with it) rose to
many times the par value and
continued at that level in spite
oi official statements that the
strike possessed no commercial
value. Then after the
publication of a belated over-
seas analysis of a sample of the
crude —the shares rocketed
again.
Portuguese Timor- and
Western Australia have much in
common. In both cases it is
very obvious that the
crude has undergone long-
distance migration—with all
that implies. In both cases the
geological structures and the
geological history are com-
plicated. In W.A. it can be
assumed that the buried and
virtually untested pre-
Cretaceous strata have a struc-
ture less complex than that of
the surface-beds at Timor.
Timor, however, possesses
the advantage that the structure
can be studied at outcrop over
a wide area; in W.A. direct
evidence as to the' disposition
of the older beds of the
Carnarvon Basin is limited to a
small part of the eastern fringe
of that structure. From pub-
lished outcrop evidence with
reference to Timor, and from
unpublished sources, the struc-
ture is patently so complex that
any serious evaluation of the
prospects of commercial oil-
production there will require
several years of intensive study.
While there is no reason to
doubt that the recent statement
that “known structures in
Timor are less complex than
anticipated” was made with
the best of intentions, the
wisdom of broadcasting what
must be, essentially, an
expression of opinion at this
early stage of the detailed
geological examination of the
concession—undertaken with
the object of striking com-
mercial petroleum—may be
doubted.
Australian Uranium Carp.
’’T'HE report made by the
A Bureau of Mineral
Resources following a recent
examination of Australian
Uranium Corp.’s uranium-
mine at Adelaide River (N.T.)
doesn't appear —from the co.'s
point of view—to have been
particularly informative or
encouraging. The board
describes the findings as
“mainly a precis of what has
already been accomplished.”
(Lack of working-capital and
other difficulties forced suspen-
sion of work at the mine last
February.)
Ore-reserves have been
estimated by the bureau’s
officers on a “cautious” basis
(no figures have been released)
and a limited programme of
exploratory drilling recom-
mended, prior to “possible”
further underground develop-
ment.
The board is “considering”
undertaking the programme
suggested by the bureau, but
it would seem that the co. is
in very much the same position
as it was before the examina-
tion when it was “investigating
ways and means of bringing the
mine back into production.”
Sellers are currently asking
6d. for the co.’s f.-p. 2s. 6d.
shares, buyers offering 4d.


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NE'O - BAR-
rere acts like
a hand when
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for Free Literature
Barrere Distribution Company
Dept. 3t, 243 Elzabeth St., Sydney
Bwj a WWIKr
QuaHtitf ]
STORM LANTERN
and get value for
money! Gives 12 hours
brilliant light on only
pints of kerosene. Abso-
lutely wind and weather-
proof. A Reflector is
available as an extra if
required.
And 10G% British Made too !
■
Model X 246
300 Candlepower
s(?tie diUeiwcef
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores throughout Australia.
la case of difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
IF current hopes are realised,
uranium-deposits on the
West Coast of the South Island
of N.Z. may prove of far
greater value than all the gold
taken from the district in the
pioneering days.
An expert of the British
Atomic Energy Authority, Mr.
J. B. Richardson, recently flew
to N.Z. and made a survey of
the area at the request of the
Government.
A hint of the result was
subsequently given by Minister
of Mines Me Alpine. He said
the Government, after pre-
liminary discussions with Mr.
Richardson, had every reason
to believe that the national
economy might be entirely
altered as a result of the estab-
lishment of a uranium-mining
industry.
The Government has already
shown that it means business
in its approach to uranium-
development. It has arranged
to send a Mines Department
engineer to Canada to study
uranium-mining methods. It
has secured from the British
Government an undertaking to
assist in the marketing of any
uranium that N.Z. may have
for sale. It has made a con-
tingently repayable advance of
£5OOO to Buffer Uranium, Ltd.,
a newly formed company, with
a nominal capital of £5OOO, to
assist it in proving deposits on
the Buffer River, and it is
spending £12,000 through the
Mines Department on an
access-road to enable equip-
ment to be moved in.
The ore-potential in this area
has been estimated at 20 to 30
million tons, and samples show
a uranium-content of up to 0.5
per cent. A minimum of 0.1
per cent, is required for suc-
cessful commercial exploitation.
This is not the only uranium-
field on the West Coast. A
complete aerial survey was
recently made by scintillometer
on behalf of the Rio Tinto
mining combine, with, it is
understood, favorable results.
Balance of Payments
N.Z.’s overseas exchange
transactions for the year to
June 30 last showed a surplus
of £6.9 million, compared with
deficits of £5.2 million in 1956
and £42.3 million in 1955.
Export receipts improved by
£5 million to £286.3 million.
Butter brought in £12.6 million
less at £39.6 million, cheese
£4.7 less million at £l7 million.
But wool realised £12.5 million
more at £106.6 million, neatly
offsetting the butter fall, and
meat receipts were £2.8 million
up at £74.4 million.
Receipts for the four main
export items were thus in
total slightly down. Other
items, however, tipped the
scales favorably with a rise of
£B.l million to £48.5 million.
These included milk by-
products (£2.3 million up),
wood products, pulp and paper
(£2.8 million up), and scrap-
metal (£1.6 million up). Paper
brought in £1.6 million and
wood pulp £l.l million.
The average monthly rate of
private imports has been in-
creasing over the last 12
months. After declining from
£21.2 million for July-Decem-
ber, 1955, to £18.5 million for
January-June, 1956, it rose
to £19.7 million for July-
December, 1956, and to £2O
million for January-June, 1957.
No Credit-relaxation
These figures support the
view expressed by the Reserve
Bank that the time has not yet
come for relaxation on credit.
First of all, it says that the
symptoms of inflation, though
reduced, have not disappeared.
The number of vacancies
greatly exceeds the number of
unemployed; the short-term
outlook for realisations of
dairy-produce exports, though
improved, is still not good;
and overseas exchange trans-
actions are barely in balance.
The bank points out, and
rightly so, that, even if export
proceeds should improve sub-
stantially, a corresponding in-
crease in spending should be
discouraged till such time as
overseas reserves have been
built up to a more satisfactory
level.
The Government gets a
pretty straight rebuke for over-
spending. The restraining
effects of credit policy have,
over the last two years, been
offset to some extent by the
net effect of Government
finance, the bank says.
The Government’s net
indebtedness to the banking
system has been rising slightly.
While it is inevitable that there
should be a long-term growth
in Government expenditure to
meet the needs of an expanding
economy, it is still important
that the methods used to
finance this expenditure should
help and not hinder the attain-
ment of economic stability.
The present export prices for
butter and cheese are lower
than the guaranteed price paid
to farmers in N.Z., and a deficit
is occurring in the Dairy
Account. As a result, the level
of incomes in N.Z. is being
maintained, while overseas
earnings are lower with
inflationary effects.
Realistic, Not Pessimistic
But the bank’s view is simply
realistic, not by any means
pessimistic. Provided the situ-
ation is carefully handled, the
growth and prosperity of the
country should be maintained
and during 1957-58 may prove
to have reached as high a level
as at any time in N.Z.’s history,
it says.
The need for restraint in
spending will probably remain
for a long time, since the
demands of a lively, expanding
economy are likely to exceed
the resources available. Yet it
is also important that positive
policies and attitudes should be
adopted in relation to future
growth.
The bank’s suggestions: The
greatest possible encouragement
to savings ; encouragement to a
moderate inflow of overseas
capital for suitable pro-
jects ; improvement of
facilities to provide capital
for essential industries;
flexible interest-rates ; technical
education and research to
match modern requirements;
wider use of incentives to effort
and enterprise, with adequate
margins in rewards and
remuneration ; increased efforts
to find alternative export-
markets and provide new
export commodities.


Buying a Used Car
By D. J. HI SLOP
TOT-UP sometimes, as I
did, the number of
secondhand cars offered
for sale in a city daily!
Models varying from the year
1929 to 1955 ; prices ranging
from £2O to £2OOO.
Surely, I thought, in view of
such facts and figures, securing
a good secondhand car must be
comparatively easy, particu-
larly as some advertisers invite
time-payment extending over
three years and deposits as low
as 25 per cent, of the purchase
price, and offer “free” accident
and sickness insurance and, in
some cases, a guarantee cover-
ing the first 3000 miles.
Some are even prepared to
sell a car on no deposit and
easy monthly terms.
That much I learnt from the
daily press. I learnt consider-
ably more when recently I
tackled the nerve-wracking job
of buying a secondhand car.
One of the first things I
discovered was that a second-
hand car is not a secondhand
car at all, bfit a used car.
It sounds a small point, but
there is a psychological signi-
ficance behind that one word
that carries a considerable
amount of weight. Psychology
plays an important part in sell-
ing any commodity today, and
the used-car business is one
where it is by no means
neglected. It certainly comes
into the picture where the
mileage of a car is concerned.
f Tr I HE extraordinary faith
some people place in the
reading of the mile-gauge plays
right into the hands of a dealer
with an accommodating con-
science.
Often, of course, where the
mileage reads incorrectly, the
dealer doesn’t come into the
picture at all. The prior owner
can either adjust it to suit his
own fancy on deciding to sell
the vehicle, or he can discon-
nect the cable once a sufficiently
high mileage, say 20,000, has
been recorded. He does another
40,000 miles, and then decides
to dispose of the vehicle. The
cable is reconnected, a mile-
gauge-conscious customer is
found with comparative ease,
and a month or so later a
gullible buyer is wondering if
perhaps that gauge was right,
after all.
The folly of being guided by
the gauge is brought out when
it is realised that a taxi, work-
ing round the clock, can tick-up
well over 100,000 miles in 12
months, and a vehicle just over
a year old can be showing
50,000 miles on a gauge built
to record only five figures,
whereas the true mileage is
150,000.
The newness of the model,
the spick-and-span appearance
of the average taxi and the
reasonable condition of the
upholstery after just over a
year’s wear are all good selling
points. The 50,000 miles show-
ing on the gauge does not seem
out of proportion to any buyer
not conversant with the history
of the vehicle.
There is the argument,, of
course, that some taxis are well
maintenanced, and though a
number of parts have been
worn-out they have been
expertly replaced, and there is
still a lot of value in a car that
has done 150,000 miles.
That may be so, but it’s a
good idea for a man with a
non-mechanical mind to steer
clear of a car with the possi-
bility of that amount of travel
and wear behind it.
If he’s a mechanic it mightn't
be so bad. He might be glad
of the experience that almost
certainly lies ahead of him.
f TpHE majority of used-car
buyers are not mechanics,
Most of them know very little
of the mechanical side of a
vehicle, despite the easy talk
of the average man about
carbys and diffs and shockers,
as though he was on intimate
terms with all of them.
If he had the money or was
prepared to commit himself to
a more severe hire-purchase
plan than a used car demands,
there is little doubt that he
would buy a new car. But to
the man with not too much
capital, with a not-too-bountiful
income, there’s only one
course. He looks out for a used
job, with his heart in his
mouth and a pretty anxious
grip on that money he has been
a few years accumulating to
provide the purchase-price or
deposit.
He possibly has a mechanic
teed-up who will have a look
at the vehicle and drive it
round the block for him and
tell him if it’s any good or not.
But the things a mechanic can
miss, no matter how good he
is, without the aid of a hoist and
facilities for pulling-down the
motor, might easily run into
£lOO or more.
When I decided to buy
a used car, I wasn’t quite sure
at which end to start. I had
been reading the car ads. for
months and had a good idea
of what I wanted. I was fairly
sure of the model 1 would
finish-up with,
The disturbing feature was
that between some vehicles of
that model and others there was
a difference of £lOO or more,
Being a complete mug,
mechanically, I was not quite
sure how I was to tell whether
a certain vehicle was worth
top price in that class or some-
thing like £lOO less than top
price.
Appearances would mean
something, and the sound of
the motor, and whether all the
odds and ends, like starter and
lights and brakes and gear-
lever, did what they were
supposed to do at the right
time.
But that was only part of the
story.
]7 THOUGHT first of keep-
“ ing away from dealers.
They were in the game to make
a living. The better the living
they could make the better they
liked it. They had to sell cars
or they went broke.
If a dealer had a car in his
yard that had had v a dozen
owners and had been originally
worn-out by a mad taxi-driver
or a speed-happy commercial-
traveller on country roads, or
had been smashed-up in an
accident, the dealer still had to
o Continued on page 56)


Showroom "Twins'
Fs
BACIB
m
■
|K
■■ -
'•S«£
ofr
-jr.
but only one still has ‘new car’ performance
im
m
;
ifl
nm
m
CM
&0T0?-
• • • • . the reason ?
one has been run on “just any oil”
but the other has had the engine protection
only CASTROL can give.
CASTROL
Insist on Castrol - by name !
“THE MASTERPIEC E IN OILS*’-


My Missing Mum
By ROBERTA FIELD
LEO was peeved because
Mum had come along
on our fishing trip, and
when it blew up rough
on the first night out, he showed
the first signs of pleasure since
leaving the jetty. He knew she
hated bad weather. For that
matter she didn’t like boats or
fishing, neither, but that was
Mum all over. She had to come
in case she missed something.
We were right out on the
reef and hadn’t even had a
bite, when it started to blow
from the sou’-east. By midnight
it was so bad Leo decided we’d
better go in.
“Pull up the hook, Cuth-
bert,” he told me ; “we’ll run
for the mouth of the Roger.”
Two hours later, down in the
stinking innards of the little
boat, staring in disgust at the
old engine, he said for the
fiftieth time: “Your Mum’s a
Jonah. Whyn’t you tell her to
stay home?”
And he lifted the corner of
his top lip, showing his long
white fang, because he knew
my Mum never took notice of
anybody.
Leo was thin and ugly, and
his sharp face wasn’t made any
prettier now by that three-
cornered leer and a lot of
crusted salt. He was wearing
a filthy old singlet and an old
pair of shorts that were too
big: they hung off his hips and
drooped around his knees like
a dirty flag at half-mast. One
thing about Leo, though, he
was never scared, not by any-
thing. He braced himself now
against the mad lurching and
rolling of the launch, and, fish-
ing in his hip-pocket, brought
out his tobacco and began
rolling a smoke.
“This bloody engine has got
me beat,” he said. “We’re in
strife. If we have to swim
you can hang on to me,” he
added, his fang glinting again
in the wavering light of the
hurricane-lamp.
“But what about Mum?”
“Oh, don’t worry about her,
she’ll come through. I’d back
your Mum to come through
Hell, in front of the field all
the way,’’ he said sourly.
CHE was sitting up there now,
in the stern, hanging on
to steady herself, her big,
puffy feet shoved into burst old
sandshoes, her thin old print
stuck to her in all water
that was coming over, and her
eyes all red and swollen from
the salt. But she just sat there,
staring out into the dark
at nothing, and chew-
ing away steadily at some-
thing, goodness knows
what. That was just like her.
She’d always find something
to chew, even if the rest of the
world was starving.
We drifted for what seemed
like hours, pitching and tossing,
dragging the hook. About
morning, we hit a rock some-
where off the mouth of the
Roger, and took to the dinghy.
We never had time to grab
anything, just got off with our
skins and left the poor old
boat sinking there in the dark.
She wasn’t mine or Leo’s, but
belonged to a fisherman who
Was in hospital; just lost his
leg, so that was all right.
We never had to swim after
all, but lost the dinghy-just the
same, getting ashore. She got
stove-in at the last minute and
we waded the rest of the way,
hanging on to each other and
making it at last. We crawled
up the sand to where the under-
growth started and huddled
there till daylight.
The storm blew itself out by
dawn and the dawn came clear
and hot. Hot! A real tropical
stinker, it was, with the sun
beating back off the water and
shimmering up in waves off
those miles and miles of blind-
ing white sand. By nine-o’clock
the sweat was pouring down
our faces and arms, and not
a breath of air to relieve us,
Leo took charge as usual.
“We’re on the right side
of the Roger, anyway,” he
said, “but still twenty-mile
from home, and nothing to do
but walk it. We’ll find a drink
somewhere along the way. How
are you on the toe, Missus?”
Mum just scrambled to her
feet and started walking. Leo
tipped me a wink and fell in
behind her. I started in behind
him.
A/fUM wasn’t looking too
fresh this morning, and
before long she was tailing the
field badly. She’d lost her hat
in the night, and the sun soon
had her face redder than red,
and she looked as if she’d been
greased with lard. But she
never said a word, just plodded
along with her eyes closed up
against the fiendish glare.
It wasn’t too long before I*
had a raging thirst and I
started breathing through my
mouth, then my throat got like
sandpaper, and a ball of fire
started to bum in my chest.
Leo walked along in silence,
his head down, and even if
my throat hadn’t been so dry
I wouldn’t have spoken to him,
because he’d start chewing the
rag about Mum for sure.
These tropical beaches,
inside the Great Barrier Reef,
are glorious for a nice camping’
holiday, or a Sunday afternoon
with the kids, but for sheer
monotony of scenery they’re
hard to beat. Especially when
you’re all tuckered-up with
thirst. Those graceful, beckon-
ing coconut-palms you read
so much about, for instance,
just aren’t there. There simply
isn’t anything but miles and
miles of hard-packed, dazzling
white sand, with a point of
rocks every so often sticking
out into all that brilliant blue
water. And on the landward
side, there’s a fringe of thin
undergrowth that crawls up the
endless low ridges, that in turn
give way to scrub-covered hills.
And the heat those beaches can
generate .. .! I felt like an egg
frying on the lid of Hell.
We’d been walking for a
long time when I heard a groan-
ing sound from behind, and
turned round in time to see
poor old Mum, away back,
half-fall and half-lie down on
the beach. I looked at Leo
and he looked at me, and after
a moment, showing his fang,
he turned and we both went
back to her.
T EO walked all round her,
just like a farmer studying
a bogged cow.
“What’s the matter, Missus?”
he said at last.
Mum had her arm across her
face and her voice was sort
of mangled. “I can’t go on any
longer.”
1 looked at Leo, but he was
"It's all right — collision-drill."


mum
r M
fj
?0
m
IHI
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O'Connell Sts., H. V. La wry,
Sydney. Manager.
studying the hills, a long way
back, scratching at the salty
stubble on his chin with one
long, dirty fingernail.
“We’ll find a drink of water
soon,” he said at last, “but we
got to keep going.”
“You two go along,” Mum
croaked. “I’ll wait here.”
“Wait?” asked Leo, his top
lip beginning to twitch.
She sat up. “Yes, wait,” she
said a bit sharply, for her. “I’ll
get up in the shade and when
you find water bring some
back.”
She was looking right at me
and her eyes seemed to be
boring holes in me.
I said, “But, Mum, what will
we bring it back in? We
haven’t got nothing, no tin nor
bottle. Even my hat won’t hold
.water, not for long.”
Her eyes went to my hat and
I knew straight away I’d said
the wrong thing. She held out
her hand.
“Give it to me.”
After a minute I took it off
and handed it over. It was a
good straw hat, only three days
old, and had cost me twelve-
and-six at Sam Yicks’s.
Although it had got sopping
the night before, it had dried
out beautiful, just going to
show that quality always pays
in the long run.
She clapped it on her head
and said, “Find something!”
in a voice that put an end to
the argument.
She hauled and scratched
around in the sand and at last
got on to her feet. She shuffled
up the beach to a bit of scatty
shade made by some old, thin
sheoaks, dropped down there
and turned over on her side,
with my good hat over her
face, and never said another
word.
Leo started off along the
beach again, without looking
back, but I looked back because
I hated losing my good hat,
and I can see old Mum now,
lying there all hillocks and
hollows, her dress stretched
tight, and my hat sitting up
on top of it all, saying good-bye
to me.
T DON’T think we'd been
walking more than a couple
of hours when Leo stopped
and started sniffing the air and
gazing over towards the scrubby
ridge behind the beach.
“Wait here,” he told me.
“Something tells me we’re going
to find a drink here some-
where.*
bo I sat down in a bit of
shade, mighty glad to get a rest,
especially now I never had a
hat on.
After a while he came back.
“Come on,” he said.
We went for a bit of a
scramble back in the scrub.
He’d found a dribble of water
coming down between two
huge mossy rocks and soaking
away into the ground. It took
a long time to get a drink
but at last we were satisfied.
Leo sat back on his heels,
wiping his mouth with the back
of his hand, and said, “Now
you better trot back to your
Mum with some.”
“But, Leo,” I said, “there’s
nothing to carry it in.”
He stood up, hitching up his
raggedy old pants, and began
scratching himself, starting on
his head and gradually work-
ing all over his long, skinny
frame; then he suddenly
started shaking with laughter.
He laughed silently, harder and
harder, till it looked as if he'd
begin dropping apart with the
vibration. When he’d had a
good go, he fetched me a
clout on the back that made me
give at the knees.
“What did she tell you to
do? Find something, she said,
hey? Find something!” And
off he went again.
After he’d got over it,, he
seemed almost in a good
humor, and said, “Well, if we
can’t take the water to your
Mum, we’ll have to bring your
Mum to the water.”
So away we went, back over
our tracks.
It was that hot, and my thirst
soon came up again, and the
glare that bad, that I never
looked up till Leo, who was
walking in front, stopped and
I barged into him, nearly
knocking him down. He was
gazing around in a mystified
way, and I saw now that we
were right back at the spot
where we’d left Mum, only she
was gone.
There were our tracks,
coming down the beach from
the direction of the Roger,
three sets of them, and the
mess of tracks where Mum had
gone down, and there they
were where we’d all gone up
to the old bits of sheoaks, and
the flattened-out mark where
Mum had been lying. And
there were Leo’s tracks and
mine, going off again, behind
us this time, and coming back
again, all there just like a
picture in a book.
But Mum was not there, and
there was not a mark anywhere,
in all that clean, white, wind-
swept sand, to show how she’d
left that place. Not a track,
leading away from those she-
oaks, just nothing. I even
looked up into the sparse old
frees, half expecting to see her
feet in their old sandshoes,
dangling over my head, but
she was not even there.
I walked around and around,
and studied the whole thing
carefully, and the only way I
could see that she had gone
was flew.
At last I went back to Leo.
He grinned. “Find her?”
“Where do you s’pose she’s
gone?”
His grin widened a bit and
he said, “Your Mum was
always tricksy. I dunno where
she is, nor how she got there,
but wherever she is, I bet she’s
sitting up real comfy having
a nice cuppa tea.”
It wasn’t any use poking
around there any more. We’d
had all that walk for nothing,
too, and to top it off, not only
Mum was gone but my good
hat as well.
two years later I
was talking to a man from
Croker Creek, that runs into
the sea way up north of the
Roger. All of a sudden he left
off talking and looked puzzled
for a minute.
Then he said, “Hey, ain’t
Minnie Pointer, what used to
be, your Ma?”
I said, “Yes, that was my
Mum. Dead and gone she’s
been for two year now. Why
you want to know?”
“Dead and gone nothing,” he
said with a grin. “Why, I seen
her the other day.”
“You seen her? Where’d you
see her, then? I thought the
fairies had got off with her.”
“Why,” he said, “she was
over old Mickey Flynn’s place.
Looked real well, she did, too.
You know, over Croker Creek.”
So I got a bit excited and,
the first fishing-boat out, I
waltzed off to Croker Creek.
I got put off in the dinghy and
walked up the beach. It was
just bush and deserted, like all
that coast, only for a couple of
huts thatched with grass, set
right back at the foot of the
ridge, among the sheoaks.
There was an old, dark
chap squatting outside one of
them, cooking a crab in an old
oil-drum. I said to him, “Are
you Mickey Flynn?”
He grinned a wide, old grin
that showed up all the little
black butts of snaggly teeth,
and pointed towards a bit of a
track that wound off up the hill.
I followed it and after a
climb found myself on a
shoulder of the ridge, with an
open view of the sea, free,
gratis, and there, too, was a
little old shack.
It was made of everything:
opened-out tins, bark, scraps
of corrugated-iron, sacks and
wallaby-skins. There was a
smoulder of coals outside the
door, with two black billy-cans
giving out a smell all their
own, and a tiny, bent old man,
with an old felt hat pulled
right down over his nose,
squatting beside them, sucking
a broken-stemmed pipe.
I stepped up to the door,
and inside the shack had been
lined with newspapers that had
been gummed on, but had come
adrift in the wet season, and
hung down in strips like a dirty
snowstorm. The place was
jam-packed with things: a
table, boxes to sit on, bunks,
old blankets, bottles, tins, crab-
shells and a bit of rotten fishing-
net, a pair of oars, one broken,
and an old tin kettle full of
rusty nails. And fair in the
middle, sitting in a chair made
from a discarded barrel, sat my
Mum.
gave me a big smile, and,
just like a queen on her
throne with the world at her
feet, said, as gracious as can
be, “Hello, Sonny.’’
“Hello, Mum,” I said. “What
are you doing here all this
time?”
She gave a box a shove
forward with her foot. “Why,
son, I’m keeping house for Mr.
Flynn, out there. Such a
lovely man, and getting on, you
know.” She lowered her voice
a bit. “He’s gonta leave me this
place when he dies. It’s a very
valuable property.”
She looked around with
pride, her red face shining.
(Continued on page 57)


Varied Opinions On—
“Productivity and Progress”
■COR nearly a quarter of a
century the Australian
Institute of Political Science
has been conducting a Summer
School to which are invited
economists, business and pro-
fessional men, trade-union
leaders, scientists, Members of
Parliament and others interested
in the social and economic
problems of the country.
The extent to which the
project has grown from small
beginnings is shown by the fact
that over five hundred people
drawn from many professions
and occupations went to Can-
berra for the weekend of
sessions last January when the
subject chosen for discussion
was “Productivity and Pro-
gress.”
In order to bring the lectures
and discussions to a wider
audience than those who are
able to attend the school and
lo give them some permanence,
the A.I.P.S. has made a prac-
tice of publishing the proceed-
ings in book-form. Since 1933
more than two dozen of these
volumes have been produced,
covering a very wide range
ot topics. The latest is Pro-
auctivity and Progress (Angus
and Robertson; 255.), contain-
mg the papers read and dis-
cussed last January. On that
occaston those attending the
session heard,.™ addition to
talks by various Austral,an
authorities, three prominent
oversea experts who had been
invited to deliver key papers.
Sir Harold Hartley, a
British scientist and industrialist
who has held high adminis-
trative posts in railways, fuel-
production and air-transport
and is now chairman of the
Energy Commission of the
Office for European Economic
Co-opeiation, contributed a
paper on “Tools, Resources
and Management ; Charles J.
Geddes general secretary of the
British Union of Post Office
Workers and T.U.C representa-
live on the U K. Government
Bconomtc Plannmg Board,
spoke on B tttsh Trade-unions
and Productivity ; and Pro-
fessor Clark Kerr Chancellor
of the Umverstty ot California,
on Productivity and Labor
Relations”
These three papers were
discussed in The Bulletin six
months apo In wneral the
monins ago. in general the
three speakers agreed on the
necessity for co-operation
between management and
labor, on the importance of
the rate of capital investment
and of the need for making
effective use of advances in
science and technology.
The three overseas speakers
had a certain advantage over
the local men in that they
could say their piece unen-
cumbered by any personal
commitments in the Australian
scene. Australian contributors
to the discussion, especially
those with direct links with
industry or politics, were some-
what Handicapped in com-
parison. They had to remember
that when the weekend was
over they would still have to
live with what they had said.
Labor Viewpoint
It is not surprising, for
example, in reading the
collected speeches in Produc-
tivity and Progress to find
Albert Monk, president of the
A.C.T.U., maintaining that the
Australian trade-union move-
ment is doing its best to increase
productivity instancing its
efforts to “maintain and
increase the efficiency of
industry” by advocating higher
pay and better facilities for
apprentices in skilled trades.
He does not mention, how-
ever, that this is merely part of
a campaign for higher wages
for all workers, unskilled as
well as skilled, and as such
cannot possibly achieve the
purpose he ascribes to it. Nor
does he mention that in recent
years the A.C.T.U.'s policy on
margins has seemed to be
dictated more by a concern
for the interests of the mass of
unskilled workers than for those
of the skilled tradesmen on
whom increased productivity
largely depends.
Frank Crean, M.H.R. for
Melbourne Ports, asked to
state the Labor viewpoint,
reminds his listeners (and
readers) that the A.L.P. is “a
Socialist party, a party critical
of the normal operations of
the capitalist system.” He
accepts the need for an increase
in productivity, but is suspicious
of the division of its benefits.
Sometimes there is a subtle
attempt to suggest that in this pro-
cess labor and capital are partners,
when in fact the real situation is
that men are only used because of
their cost as an economic factor and
not as human beings. They are, of
course, wanted as consumers. This
ambivalent approach is well illus-
trated in the story of the Ford
director and Walter Reuther, the
American leader of the United
Automobile Workers’ Union. The
director said, “Not one of these
machines pays dues to the U.A.W.”
Reuther’s reply was, “But none of
them buy Fords, either.”
The Labor party’s attitude,
according to Mr. Crean, is that
the continued application of science
and technology to industry can be
for the greater welfare of mankind,
but that because science and tech-
nology are the heritage of the whole
community there should be more
social control in their application.
The question prompted by
that statement is “How much
more?”
Management
Several speakers stressed the
importance of enlightened and
efficient management in modern
industry. Discussing “Manage-
ment and the Community,”
J. M. Dixon, assistant-general-
manager of Colonial Sugar,
says that he does not believe
that conflict and tension
between the manager and the
managed can be made to
disappear in any kind of
society.
It is not true that management and
wage-earners have nothing or little
in common, but l recognise that
their interests are not identical. It
rs, 1 think, the difference in objectives
and attitudes that need not be so
great. If these can be brought closer
together and confidence in bona
(ides built up, there will b'e more
co-operation and less difficulty from
the clash of interests.
As to the “emergence of a
new profession of manage-
ment” which many American
writers consider inevitable if
prosperity is to be managed
satisfactorily, he says that since
the war there has been much
more attention given to the
training and education of
management. Several large
companies have their own
internal courses; others have
programmes varying in scope
and type. The Sydney Tech-
nical College and similar
colleges in other States run
management-courses ; firms of
management-consultants have
attained considerable status.
The Australian Institute of
Management aims to improve
the standards of management;
so does the newly-founded Aus-
tralian Administrative Staff
College. He thinks the trend
to professionalism will develop.
In itself that will not guarantee
satisfactory management, “but
it is a necessary ingredient of
it.”
Prefacing his criticism with
the remark that he has formed
the impression that the best of
our top managment in this
country can hold its own with
any in the world, but that
perhaps our average standard
is not as good as in some other
countries, J. F. Smith, who is
N.S.W. manager of W. D.
Scott and Co. Pty., Ltd.,
management-consultants, lists
the three main weaknesses of
Australian management as:
(1) Unwillingness to share know-
ledge.
(8) Tack of productivity-con-
sciousness.
(3) Complacency with regard to
the need for management-education
and properly-organised training.
Mr. Smith claims that neither
the top executives in industry
nor the top executives in the
trade-union world have done
enough to bring home to
employees the importance of
greater productivity. It is not
enough to say that the benefits
will be passed on ; how and
when must be explained con-
vincingly. On the third point
the critic points out that
although we insist on the
accountant, the engineer and
the tradesman being trained in
theory as well as in practice,
the manager more often just
grows on the job.
Why should there be a different
rule for the manager than for any
other profession or trade? Why
should we consider that everyone
else should learn the theory and
the practice to be proficient, but
that the manager needs only the
practice?
Apart from his prepared
paper, Professor Clark Kerr
thiew some stimulating
thoughts into the later discus-
sions. Such as:—
I would also argue that the strike
can make a considerable contribu-
tion to society if it is run within
the rules of the game and if it is not
used 100 frequently... .Strikes in
the United Slates cost us in man-
days lost only one-fifth as much as
the common cold, and I would
submit that the strike has done a lot
more for America than the common
cold.
Finally he suggested that
Australians should be stimu-
lated by the thought of the
task confronting them:
It is with some envy that I see
the tremendous opportunities
which you have ahead to work
out the problems of an industrial
society better than they have
been worked out by any other
country in the world in the past
or are being worked out in the
present. It is a very exciting
prospect.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
Empire Fight
SYDNEY fight-fans are, of
course, a cynical lot. Any
self-respecting one will assure
you* on very slight provocation,
that he is awake to all the
gimmicks of publicity and,
when he pays his money to
see a fight, invariably expects
the worst.
So it is inconceivable that all
the newspaper-talk about
mutual threats by George
Barnes, the local lad, and Attu
Clottey, the West African —
“I hate his guts,” and that
line of chat —had anything to
do with the “House Full” sign
being hoisted outside Rush-
cutter Bay stadium a little
after eight-o’clock the night
George defended his British
Empire title against Attu, an
estimated 3000 failing to get
in, and “scalpers” with £2 ring-
side seats being rushed by
gentlemen waving fivers ; and
the patrons who kicked-in
palings in an attempt to get into
the bleachers —and were sub-
sequently discouraged by the
police—were, no doubt, merely
anxious to see for themselves
that their worst suspicions were
justified.
i
Certainly this writer met no
one inside who admitted any
enthusiasm. In fact, a fan sit-
ting behind me summed up
W'hat seemed to be a fairly
general opinion during the bout
immediately preceding the
main one, a four-rounder
between Aldo Collangello, BT3,
in red-and-white shorts, and
.Tony Gatelloni, 8.7, in black-
and-yellow: “It’s a sort of
vaudeville turn they’ve put on,
in case the other one’s a flop.”
The crowd took it all with
sedate approval. The fights,
alternating with sentimental
music, the big lights, the white-
coated ushers, the lollies and
fruit-drinks, the dramatic
announcements: in short, the
atmosphere of restrained
carnival which makes fight-
night in the big, cold stadium
remarkably like an evening at
a circus. Then they all stand,
to watch Clottey come in, his
fuzzy head weaving through
the "crowd. Clottey prances,
and gets a good hand. Then
Barnes, stolid, like a gardener
walking in for a day’s work.
“Sit down in front!”
Celebrities, introduced by the
bioke with the bald head and
the taste for superlatives,
among them Russell Sands,
Dave’s brother, who gets a
tremendous cheer. “The high-
priest of Australian fistiana, Vic
Patrick himself . . .” who will
referee the big fight. Vic,
immaculate in white, grins
BARNES, champ, before and
after
and waves a deprecatory hand.
The chap perched aloft fiddles
with his strings, and the names
and weights come down. Attu
Clottey, 10.4 J, George Barnes,
10.6 J-. George pounds his
scarlet gloves together. Vic
calls them to mid-ring. “This
could be the worst fight ever,”
the bloke behind says deter-
minedly. “It easy could, the
worst ever . . ”
But now they’re moving,
fairly fast. Barnes attacks, but
there isn’t much weight behind
his punches, and a good few
miss. Clottey covers nicely,
and seems content to feel
Barnes out. End of round one,
with no damage done. Round
two, and the two men’s styles
become more obvious. Barnes,
upright, workmanlike, hands
held high ; the colored boy" all
arms and legs, a low guard foil-
ing Barnes’s persistent rips to
the body. Then a right-cross,
and Barnes on the floor, with
an indignant expression. He
stayed there for the count of
eight, and got up looking
disgusted, and carried the fight
to Clottey.
At no stage, for the first few
rounds, did Barnes look like
the best man of his weight in
the British Empire. He seemed
as slow as a heavyweight, and
Clottey repeatedly made him
miss. Several times George
unleashed a terrific right upper-
cut ; Clottey flicked his head
away. The left-rips to the
body were stopped by the low
guard. And Clottey sometimes
had the better of the rallies.
But George kept plugging
away. Lead, miss ; lead, miss.
George kept bobbing up, hands
high. And, gradually, one
could see the imposing of a
moral dominance. George was
determined, and confident. He
thought he would win and, if
the fight went long enough, he
certainly would if, for
instance, it went for 50 rounds.
One could understand, then,
why the crowd liked George.
Slow as he is now, and often
sluggish, he is the stuff of those
old fighters who fought until
the sun went down. But this is
a 15-rounder . . .
* • • •
At the end of the 10th round
Clottey, in this writer’s opinion,
had a clear points lead, and it
hardly seemed possible Barnes
could overtake it. Both fighters
opened the 10th round with
good body-punches. Clottey
forced Barnes to the ropes and
got through with a heavy right
to the body, then hit him hard
in the body with both hands,
kept attacking, and, towards
the end of the round, Barnes
CLOTTEY, the challenger
looked very sick. Then,
seconds before the round
ended, Barnes stopped Clottey
with a heavy right to the jaw..
♦ • • •
After that, the pattern
changed, although Clottey
fought as hard and gamely as
ever. But for the next five
rounds Barnes’s body-punches
were getting through, often
enough to hurt. But, still, any-
thing could happen ... And
there was always the doubt
whether George could catch
the lead. He was still missing,
and, time and time again,
Clottey rallied. But George
came bobbing-up again, unper-
turbed, workmanlike, and the
crowd roared. During the final
round it was one sustained
roar, and after Vic Patrick
crowned him George ran
round and round the ring.
George is strong, and it did
one good to see such oaken
resolution rewarded. But he
should give the game away.
He is slow, now, and easy to
hit, and an importation of the
Freddy Dawson type could
hurt him badly.
J. F.
4* 4*
The Horses
"D AGING at Warwick Farm
next Saturday should serve
as a useful guide to prospects
in the A.J.C. Derby, the
Epsom Handicap and the
Metropolitan. The A.J.C. will
conduct another Warwick Farm
meeting the following Saturday,
and it also should throw a
revealing light on spring form.
• • •
The seven-furlongs Hobart-
ville Stakes, down for Warwick
Farm next Saturday, should
prove the keenest early three-
year-old race in years. Despite
thoughts to the contrary, Tod-
man may not hold something
of a mortgage on the race.
Though he is galloping as
brilliantly as ever, it’s ekpected
he’ll strike strong opposition
from other top-class per-
formers, particularly Prince
Darius, who could prove best
staying three-year-old before
the season is much further
advanced. While Tulloch, best
two-year-old of the recently-
closed season, might be reserved
for the following Saturday,
others that should make the
Hobartville interesting include
Gay Port, Turkestan, Young
Idealist, Cornelius and My
Peter.
• • • •
Jockey A. Ward won his
third Canterbury Stakes when
Prince Jambo, favored by the
conditions of the race, had an
effortless victory over Gentle
Lu and Mandingos. The
previous Saturday Prince
Jambo had been narrowly
beaten at Rosehill by Prince
Darius also at six furlongs,


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established IS7B.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman) F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
SI KUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND. Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
2*
*'
-
-■
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
but with 9.3 against the three-
year-old’s 7.3. Before that he’d
won at Rosehill with 8.11, so
his 8.2 at Canterbury was a
luxury impost. Best bet about
him was even money, which was
quickly snapped up; and one
punter laid £4OOO to £3600 on
-—one of the biggest cash
wagers noticed at a suburban
track for some time. Surprise
of the race was the poor
display by top filly Concert
Star, who began well, was
handy halfway through the
race, but dropped out to finish
last. However, it was her first
outing since the Easter meeting
at Randwick, and she could
quickly show improvement in
a sprint event.
• •
Caesar, who topped the 1956
Randwick yearling-sales at
4000gns., has had only two
starts; but judging by his
fourth at Canterbury Park to
Belyando he might soon land
the money. The gelding
(brother to Prince Delville,
Fort William and Roman Holi-
day) was the medium of a
cleverly-planned late commis-
sion in the Three-year-old
Novice Handicap: his price
dropped from 20’s to 5 to 1.
Although the plunge didn’t
come off, his effort was full of
promise, for he lacked experi-
ence and ran about a lot.
. Among the interesting horses
in work at Rosebery is Harn-
ham Hill, trained by L.
O’Rourke. Now taller, though
he has not filled out much, he
should soon have his first run
as a four-year-old. He will
make a lowly beginning, as he
is still eligible for a maiden
event. If he makes the neces-
sary advance, he could be an
A.J.C. Metropolitan show with
7.12. In Melbourne he has been
rated a high-potential stayer—
with 8.2 in the Melbourne Cup
and 21b. less in the Caulfield
Cup, which is plenty for a horse
yet to win a race. Minor
placings in the A.J.C. Derby
and in the Caulfield Guineas
influenced these steadiers.
The S.T.C., as well as the
A.I.C. (B. 14/8/’57), turned in
an encouraging balance-sheet
for the year just ended. Mem-
bers of the club will meet next
Monday to hear and discuss the
annual report that disclosed a
profit of £21,196. This, a quite
satisfactory sum, was helped
along by fine weather and
by such special attractions
as a match-race between
El Khobar and Syntax and the
staging of the Golden Slipper
Stakes. Upwards of 30,000
attended those fixtures.
Altogether the S.T.C. held 47
race-meetings during the 12
months, 19 of them midweek.
An escalator in the members’
stand will be available at
Canterbury next month, while
other improvements are being
carried on at the club’s tracks.
About 480 horses are in train-
ing at Canterbury, Rosehill and
Rosebery (training - ground
only). The club also paid a huge
tax (£529,050) which, added
to the A.J.C.’s £602,553, makes
a considerable contribution to
State Government finances.
Racegoers invested £3,963,855
on the totalisators at the 47
meetings.
• • • •
Sydney racegoers thought
they had heard the last of old
Booka, until he bobbed-up in
Brisbane, winner of the six-
furlongs Q.T.C. City Handicap.
It was the 10-year-old’s first
start in Queensland: he was
taken there by owner G. B. S.
Falkiner, chiefly as companion
for a number of show hacks —
and he made hacks of the Eagle
Farm field, which included On
Parade and Endius. Booka is
by Boomanullah from Amy
Colugo and was bi*bd by his
owner, for whom he has been
an excellent winner.
• • • •
Sydney Cup winner Electro
has proved his worth in Bris-
bane, and added to stake-earn-
ings when he easily won the
main event at the Q.T.C. meet-
ing, the mile-and-a-half Metro-
politan Handicap; local
galloper Cool Gent and Mel-
bourne representative Farquhar
filled the places. The winner is
to be returned to Sydney, and
may be set for the Mel-
bourne Cup and other
Victorian staying events.
The M.R.C. will stage the
first weight-for-age event of the
Melbourne season next Satur-
day—the seven-furlongs J. J.
Liston Stakes. Form in the
race will affect discussions on
the big spring handicaps.
Caulfield Cup favorite Syntax,
who is galloping well enough
to win first-up, is due to make
his season’s debut in the race,
as -is Sailor’s Guide, whose
programme this spring will
probably be confined to set-
weight events. Sir William will
have the advantage of two runs
under his belt, and is sure to go
well.
Racegoers at Flemington
warmly applauded Royal
Symbol’s success in the 10-
furlongs Anniversary Handi-
cap ; not only because the
horse started favorite, but in
appreciation of his consistent
record. In his last 14 starts
Royal Symbol has won five
times, and notched eight minor
placings. Bill Williamson was
seen at his best on the winner.
Harmonist broke-up the field
by running the first mile at a
smart clip, but Williamson
kept his mount handy to the
lead, and when Harmonist gave
ground, shot Royal Symbol
clear. The break gained by
the move was too big for minor
placegetters White Hills and
Cattegat, who were a long way
out of their ground early in the
race.
Royal Symbol has been up
a long time, and is unlikely to
train on for the Cups. White
Hills, however, confirmed the
staying promise he gave at
Caulfield the previous Satur-
day. For a four-year-old, he is
nicely in the Caulfield Cup with
only 7.2.
With no jumping race on the
Flemington programme, Brian
Smith dashed across to
Adelaide to add the South Aus-
tralian Grand National Hurdle
to his imposing.record. Smith's
uncanny skill played a major
part in the success of Insignus,
who won-the National by half-
a-dozen lengths.
A few disgruntled punters
demonstrated noisily when
Sandule cantered in with the
Belhaven Handicap for three-
year-olds. At his previous
start —at Caulfield last Satur-
day week—the Sandastre geld-
ing finished well down the
running. However, that day,
hock-deep in mud, Sandule,
whose previous form was good,
obviously did not appreciate
the going. There was a lot to
like about his win in the Bel-
haven, and this good-looking
chestnut is capable of boating
much better fields than he met
on Saturday. Dr. J. G.
Sheahan races Sandule ia
partnership with his wife.
A team from the country paid
a profitable visit to Flemington,
with Fiery Lady scoring a last-
stride win in the first Anglesey
Trial. The mare is trained
at Ballarat by T. Granland,
and owned by Ararat publican
Con Delaney, who was a
successful professional runner
and cyclist a few years ago.
Fiery Lady had won a couple
of provincial races so well that
her connections put in for a
big win on her at Flemington,
forcing her price down to 6 to 4.
It was only by inches that she
landed the money, but she
would have been most unlucky
to lose.
• •) •
Reports that N.Z. stayer
Jimmy Flash, who has been
entered for the Caulfield and
Melbourne Cups, will not make
the trip to Australia because
of a leg injury can be dis-
counted following the entry
received by the V.A.T.C. for
Jimmy Flash to run in the
£3OOO Toorak Handicap on
the first day of- the Caulfield
Cup meeting.
* * *
The N.S.W. Trotting Club
staged the first meeting of its
new season at the Harold Park
Raceway on Saturday night, an


Divorce Notices
IN TTIE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. —In Divorce.
TO LORNA MAY KNOWLES late of
Woollahra.—TAKE NOTICE that
PRINCE ALBERT EDWARD KNOWLES
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
4015 of 1955 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend vqu may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 18th day of
October 1957 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from ROY F.
TURNER. K. H. WILSON & CO., of
350 George Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. — In Divorce.
TO DOROTHY MAUDE NEWTON late
of Svdnev. TAKE NOTICE that
CLAUDE ERNEST NEWTON has filed
his Petition for Divorce No. 2337 of
1957 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you intend to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 4th day of November
1957 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MESSRS. N. 1).
THOMAS, ANDERSON k HEAVENER,
Solicitors, 51 Castlereagh Street,
Svdnev.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.—Is Divorce.
TO KEITH PHILLIP LANGTON late
of Geelong.—TAKE NOTICE that
PATSY DAWN LANGTON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1987 of 1957
on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court House King
Street Sydney by the 28th October 1957
and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from HAROLD MUNRO Esq.,
of 81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THU SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS JOHN JONES late of 7
Lugar Street Waverley.—TAKE NOTICE
that BETTY JONES has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2137 of 1957 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and habitual drunkenness and cruelty
during three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you must enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 25th day of October 1957 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from W. U. SMYTH KING k
SONS, Solicitors, of 9 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO PATRICK ARTHUR BYRNE also
known as PETER TAYLOR formerly
of Claremont and Bridgetown W.A.- —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife GLADYS
MURIEL has commenced proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for a di\oree on the
ground of entire failure for three years
immediately preceding the commence-
ment of the action to make periodical
payments of maintenance under an
Order of a competent Court If you
desire to defend such proceedings you
must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court Perth
within forty clear days from the date
of this publication In default of
your so doing the case may proceed
and the Court will pronounce Judg-
ment and make orders against you in
your absence DATED this 6th day of
August 1957. —G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar.
CHATEAU TANUNDA
Stories of the Coastal Lights No. 8
m
Yamba Light
(Clarence River)
The lighthouses at the mouths of the Clarence River (near
Yamba) and the Richmond River (near Ballina) in the far
north of N.S.W. were both established in 1866. They are
memorials to the early days of the State's flourishing coastal
trade before the railways pushed out along the seaboard and
introduced price-cutting competition.
The original light at the mouth of the Clarence River was
of less than 1,000 candle power. It was produced by a wick
oil lamp with a metS reflector. This light shone from a
circular stone tower 1 7 ft. high and was 294 ft. above high
water —a fixed white light that was in the charge of a keeper
for more than half a century. On November 1, 1920, the
original light was replaced by a group flashing white light of
1,500 candle power.
The light to-day is of 26,000 candle power and can be
seen a distance of 18 nautical miles in clear weather.
The fact that the Clarence River light is now automatic
is a reminder that only half the lighthouses on the N.S.W.
coast are manned. At only three of these—the Macquarie,
Cape Byron and Norah Head lights—can children attend
school and still reside at the stations. Because children have
to leave their homes on the other stations to attend school, a
yearly allowance of up to £4O for each child is made towards
the cost of their board and lodging.
The Clarence River lighthouse is only a quarter of a
mile from the popular tourist resort, Yamba.
Among a dozen wrecks that occurred near this light
between the time it was established and the end of the
century was the loss of the steamer Helen Macgregor at the
cost of eight lives. Many of the wrecks in the area late last
century were small coastal ships.
The position of the Clarence River light is latitude 29°
26' south, longitude 153° 23' east. It is 291 miles north of
Sydney by sea.
There’s Safety in the quality of
CHATEAU TANUNDA
N.S.W. Ae«ntt:
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 119 years
CLB
entertaining eight-event pro-
gramme that provided a few
handy yardsticks for later on.
Most significant feature of the
night’s racing was the double
driven by J. D. Watts, who
must be one of the most
knowledgeable men in the
game, on and off the course.
J.D.’s handling of Queen Bee
(a promising young square-
gaiter nursed to victory in her
first H.P. appearance) and
Sibelia (a brilliant little pacing
mare, who rated 2.9} over 11}
furlongs on a dead track to win
the Harold Park Handicap)
was something for the con-
noisseurs.
+ +
And Sundry Sports
■pOOTBALL round-up: In
-*■ Sydney’s Rugby League,
Norths, in a bustling Sports-
ground match -of - the - day,
stoushed Manly 12-10. Out at
Leichhardt, the home team,
Balmain, made nonsense of
East’s reputation with bruising
home-town football, 40-11. In
other matches, St. George got
Newtown 16-10 ; Souths took
Canterbury 25-11; Wests
managed Parramatta 25-5. With
a round to go before the semis,
it’s St. George, Souths and
Manly, despite their loss, in
for sure, and Wests, with
lowly Canterbury to toss next
week, as good .as home for
fourth berth.
Hurdy-gurdy result of Satur-
day’s V.F.L. round was lowly
South’s 11.9-9.17 win over Mel-
bourne, South’s Don Keyter
kicking the winning goal as
the siren sounded. (Last time
they* met, Melbourne had
thrashed South, 17.12-6.15.)
Hawthorn made absolutely
sure of reaching the finals —for
the first time ever —by defeating
Essendon 13.7 - 9.10. The
Hawks are now in second
place. Carlton, level on match-
points with Hawthorn and
lying third, ensured in a tough
game that Fitzroy Lions
wouldn't be doing any roaring
at its expense, 11.13-5.11, while
Footscray, which kicked the
very same winning tally as it
did against Richmond last
time, trapped the Tigers and
put an end to their hopes,
14.14 - 13.11. Collingwood
managed an always - trying
North 13.14-11.13, but, half-
a-win behind Essendon, its only
chance of making the final four
is for Essendon, at home, to be
beaten by Carlton (and itself,
of course, win at St. Kilda).
In the other game St. Kilda
also kicked the same tally as
it had kicked last time it met
Geelong. There was one slight
difference ; last time it was a
losing score, this time it was
a winning one, 10.13-8.10. It
was the Saints’ first win at
Kardinia Park since 1946.
The finalists of Sydney’s
Rugby Union are Gordon, St.
George, Randwick and Manly ;
last Saturday’s final round
decided only the fourth possie,
the other three teams having
already made sure of their
places. East, badly beaten by
Gordon 25-3, failed to make the
semi-finals for the first time
since 1940. Manly needed a
good win over Eastwood—and
got it, 31-3; the Villagers
finished level on points with
East, but got in on averages,
Randwick had to come from
behind to beat St. George 16-11,
University defeated North
17-12, and Parramatta
nobbled Drummoyne 14-11.
Gordon was minor premiers,
and won the club championship,
’ • •
In Sydney F.K. Austria, in its
last game here, defeated Aus-
tralia in the third Soccer Test
5-1, to win the rubber 2-1. Aus-
tralia played a more representa-
five team than usual (from four
States) and was not disgraced,
though clearly lacking the
visitors’ polish and finish.


CUARD/t-
C&44t/ A
Cl/
PROTECTA
6t*niStU HtyiiiUiErig
TILL
Suitable for every type of bus
hII Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appears me. Send for full details
arid literstore to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Di.urHutting Agent* —
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
XNEKTif
m
C. Penfold St Co. P tj. L ii»
Norman Bros. Ptj. Ltd.
Vardon Price- Ltd.
Docket Book €•.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Beaconsfield Bank
Roobery (put out in a one-shilling
cUiuon about 1880). —6567.
To buy copies of the following:
"T tic Australian Museum Magazine”
(Vol. I—Nos. 1,3, 11, 12; Vol. 8
—No. 11); “The Australian
Quarterly” (Nos. 1,4, 6,7, 9-12,
14, 17, 18, 21-25; Vol. 11—No. 2;
Vol. 15—No. 3; Vol. 27—No. 2, 4);
Ihe Wealth and Frogress of N.S.W.,
eu. by T. A. Coghlan (Vols. 3-6, 14
cnwards); "The tmu” (Vol. 1; Vol.
B—No.8 —No. 5; Vol. 12 —No. 3 suppl.;
Vol. 20 —No. 1; Vol. 44); "Minutes
and Proceedings of the Engineering
Association ot N.S.W.” (Vols. 4,5,
7, 18, 21-23, 26, 31); Geological
Survey of N.S.W. (“Palaeontology” —
Nos. 2,6, 7,9); "Mankind” (Vol.
I—Nos. 3,6); N.S.W. Department
oi Mines’ Geological Survey
(“Mineral Resources" —Nos. 1-6,
8-15, 20, 25, 29, 31).—6568.
To buy The Industrial History of
Broken Hill (Frazer and Jenkinson,
Melbourne, 1918), by George Date,
and Ralaello Carboni's Eureka
SiockuUe. —6569.
Information Sought
Simple methods of plucking ducks
ana makes?
unable to suggest any better way
than plucking oy bana soon alter
the buds are killed and still warm,
immersing the carcasses in a copper
or very hoi water is often used lor
iowis, but this rather spoils the
valuable feathers and down of the
water-buds, the hardest' of all
poultry to denude oi leathers. A
lighted taper can be run over the
skm to singe on the last small tutis
oi down and feather. For doing the
work on a large scale for commercial
pui poses, consult the poultry expert
at the N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture, Loltus Stieel, Sydney.
* * * *
(1) Did Captain Cook take posses-
sion of N.Z. ? (2) tiriej account of
furly settlement in N.Z. ?
(1) Yes. Captain Cook first
sighted New Zealand on Oct. 7,
1 /69. On Oct. 10 the same year
he hoisted the Union Jack at
Loverly Bay and took, possession of
the country on behatL of King
George 111. (2) For a long white
auer this the British Government
made no effort to settle N.Z., which
was little else than a base lor whal-
ing operations. The first real attempt
to introduce law and order was
with the arrival of the Rev. Samuel
Marsden in Dec., 1814. In 1825 a
colonising company was formed in
London, composed of many
inuuential men, which received
Royal charter; but this venture
lulled. Much of the early settlement
anu progress in N.Z. were due to
the work and guidance of Christian
missionaries, Marsden and his
successors.
* * * *
A few details of the Young Aus-
tralia League overseas tour for girls
pi oposed for some time next year ?
The Y.A.L. is organising (for 100
girls between the ages of 14 and
19 from all parts of the Com-
monwealth) an overseas tour that
will take in some 30,000 miles’
Uavel. Reservations have been made
loi berths on the Orontes booked
to leave Fremantle on March 28,
1958. The itinerary, planned for a
period of a little over live months,
is shaped approximately as follows;
visits to Italian cities —Naples,
Rome, Florence, Venice, Milan;
then on to Berne; from Switzerland
through Western Germany
Munich, Frankfurt and Cologne—to
Belgium and a six-day stop-off at
Brussels; ihe final six days on the
Continent to be spent in Paris, mak-
ir.p 36 days in all; then on to Lon-
don, where eight days are to be
spent before a tour of the provinces
and Scotland, which includes visits
to Southampton, Salisbury, Oxford,
Stratford-upon-Avon, Birmingham,
Nottingham, Manchester, Liverpool,
Carlisle, Glasgow, Perth, Stirling,
Edinburgh, Newcastle-upon-1 yne,
York, Leeds, Bradford and Cam-
bridge; then a final eight days or
so in London. The tour will be
under the personal direction of the
director of the Young Australia
League, Mr. Jack Cotterill, who will
be aided by a party of experienced
chaperones. Concessions have been
received on account of the size of
the party which make the cost of the
entire tour possible at £B5O (this
includes all fares, travelling
expenses, laundry, and such things
as medical expenses for minor ill-
nesses). Payment may be made on
an instalment plan—£2so to be paid
with the application and the balance
in six monthly instalments each of
£lOO, the last by Jan. 8, 1958. These
costs are based on a departure from
Fremantle; entrants from other
States will have to pay their lares
to Perth. Further details may be
had from J. Cotterill, Director,
Young Australia League. Box E.
219. G.P.0., Perth or F. R. Smith,
Director, Eastern States Division;
Young Australia League, 139 Ann
Street, Brisbane.
* * * *
A simple home-method of binding
copies of The Bulletin?
Large magazines should be bound
in periods of two, three or . four
months; smaller ones in half-yearly
volumes —for ease in handling and
to save breakage by their weight.
For a home job, place the magazines
squarely on top of one another and
pierce three or four holes down the
back edges (about an inch inside
the page), taking the holes through
the group. Tie together firmly with
white or pink legal tape, taxing a
separate piece for each hole. The
volume should then be folded inside
stout brown paper, with a piece of
calico pasted inside the spine for
strength. On the outside of the
spine print the name and date of
contents. Store Daily on a shelf.
* * * *
Some information on the proposed
lecturing lour of Queensland
sponsored by the Commonwealth
Literary Fund ?
It has been announced that three
Queensland-born authors (Vance
Palmer, David Rowbotham and Vat
Vallis) have been chosen to give
a series of lectures in Queensland
on Australian lite r ature. The
lectures, conducted by the Queens-
land Adult Education Board under
Commonwealth Literary Fund
auspices, are being- arranged by the
Adult Education Board Supervisor
(Mr. L. B. Carter) and Adult
Education district organisers at
Cairns, Townsville, Rockhampton,
Maryborough and Toowoomba. A
similarly-conducted tour was under-
taken in Tasmania last year by Kylre
Tennant and Tom Inglis Moore. It
is expected that ihe bookshop-
displays of Australian books that
accompanied the Tasmanian tour
will be arranged for Queensland.
The lecturers will begin their
individual tours on Sept. 2, and will
be revisiting areas that have been
featured in their writing. Vance
Palmer is expected to visit Towns-
ville, Cairns, Atherton, Innisfail,
Matanda, Charters Towers, Ingham,
Mary Kathleen, Mt. Isa, Ayr and
Proserpine. He will speak on “ihe
Australian Short Story” and “High-
lights of Australian Literature.”
David Rowbotham is expected to
visit Toowoomba, Warwick, Stan-
thorpe, Dalby, Roma (or Miles),
Ipswich, Southport, Nambour, Cleve-
land, Caboolture and Redelifie. He
will speak on “Australian Nature
Poetry” and "Henry Lawson's
Land.” Vai Vallis is expected to
visit Rockhampton, Mackay, Sarina,
Mt. Morgan, Longreach (or Cler-
mont), Gladstone, Bundaberg.
Childers, Maryborough, Gympie and
Kingaroy. He will speak on "Aus-
tralian Poetry” and “Plot and
C haracter in Australian Drama and
the Short Story.” Each speaker at
the end of his country itinerary will
deliver a lecture in Brisbane.
Brief Answers
R.H.C.: (1) Suggest you contact
the Public Library. (2) To this there
seems to b* no definite answer.
•The original Merchant Shipping
Act ot lav4 consisted of about 3tx>
pages, and since then there have
been seveial amendments. Whether
it is the longest Act m the u.k.
statute-book, it is diliicult to say. (3)
Try a Constitutional lawyer on tins
one. Ime circumstances of a
specific case are important....
J.ivi.: (1) Land Looking west, by
Malcolm Uren (1948), quoted on the
Service page (B. 31///’5/), was
aesigned, said the author in his
prelace, to "give ampie credit to
James Stilling, who conceived the
idea of the planting or a coiony at
Swan River. Pew founders' of
British colonies so intimately allied
themselves with the success oi their
scheme as did Stirling.” (2) No
details discoverable. J.W.: See
Derek. Stamords Dylan Thomas
(19>4) or John Bnnnnrs Dylan
Thomas in America (1 Jno). Also
Leftover Life to Kill, by ins widow,
Cauiin Thomas, pubhstieu tins year.
IS..A.S.: In 1627 .me botanist
Anan uunningliam, who nau accom-
panied Oxley on his 181/ and 1818
expto. ations of the Lacman and
Macquarie Rivers and actoss me
Liverpool Plains, fought his way
across the Liverpool Range, dis-
covered the Cvvydn, Dumao-sq and
Condamine Rivers, anu pcitei.ated
ihe Darting Downs, beiorc returning
to his staiung-point at me head ot
the Hunter River. In I sew he
expfoicd the sources of me b.isbane
River. He also led sciemnic expedi-
tions in 1822 and in me
country between bathinsi and the
Liverpool Plains... .Auvr.: fl) lire
Ibsen works you cite wete published
in the lonovving years—" Hie Pre-
tende.s” (1864), "Peer Gym” (1867),
"Doll’s House” (187vj, "Gnosis”
(1881), "An tnemy oi the People”
(1882), "ihe Wad Ducx” (1884),
“Hedda Gablet” (1840). (2)
Diliicult to make that assessment.
Critics diner. Some, ot course, are
not realty compatable with others.
"Peer Gym” would lank as his most
intlueht.al and popular diamatic
poem C.L.: (1) "Men crumbled,
man lived on” and “Men, men he
could Hog lor ever, But man was
still exempt” is from Renneth
Slessor’s poem "Heine in Paris,
published in his One Hundred
Foe ms {1919-1939 ). (2) Gle,icoe, by
Douglas Stewart, published by
Angus and Robertson (1947)....
A.G.: John Reginald Halliday
Christie, 55, the Notting Hill
murderer, was sentenced to death on
June 25, 1953, for the murder of his
wife. He was hanged at Pentonville
prison (London) on July 15, 1953.
. ...F.JJ.: Yes, there are available
in English biographies of the Roman
Emperor Nero, by Romans. One
is published in English as The
Reign of Nero, by Tacitus: and one
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(8/8/’57)
General rains in Queensland during September, Heaviest
falls and likelihood of flooding on the central highlands and
central coast, poor rainfall on the Peninsula and in the
north-west and Bundaberg areas.
Moderate to good general rains in N.S.W. during Sep-
tember, best rains on the northern tablelands, south-west
slopes and Rivevina. Rainfall should become patchy during
October and November, with good general rains during
December.
General rains in Victoria during September, with likeli-
hood of flooding of the Murray and tributaries. Reason-
ably good follow-on rains should continue during October
and November.
General rains likely in many areas of South Australia
during September, although the interior and west coast may
be confined to light to moderate rains. Moderate rains in
the agricultural areas during October, with further rains
in November.
In Western Australia, good rains should occur in the
south-west and on the south coast, but, apart from light
rain on the Gascoyne and goldfields areas, poor elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


FLY 8.0.A.C. —THE WORLD-WIDE AIRLINE
*T
8.0.A.C. extends
Services to
the Far East...
BURMA
THAILAND
HONGXON<i
m
lAPA.fi
World leader in air travel
£> /
= /
4*
<\7+
In addition to the Britannia services (3 times weekly) on the Australia/Britain
Qantas-8.0.A.C. “Kangaroo” Route and the 3 times weekly service
from South Africa to Britain, 8.0.A.C. now announces a new Britannia
service, also 3 times weekly, from Japan to Britain, via Hong Kong,
Thailand, Burma and India.
8.0.A.C. Britannia services now link Australia, Indonesia, Singapore, India,
Pakistan, Iraq, Turkey, Switzerland, Germany, Britain Sudan, Kenya,
Rhodesia, South Africa Burma, Thailand, Hong Kong, Japan.
It costs no more to enjoy fast, smooth jet-prop travel by 8.0.A.C. Britannia.
Spacious cabins; service beyond comparison; latest radar for fair-
weather flying all the way. De Luxe First class and Tourist services.
See your Travel Agent for trip planning help no charge.
Information and bookings from all leading Travel Agents and
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. ( 8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia).
BOM
takes good care of you
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
A75/AU
of The Twelve Ccesars of Suetonius
is, of course, Nero... .The following
available from Angus and Robertson
Pty., Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney—G.H.P.: Color Photo-
graphy for the Amateur, by M.
Lillington Hall (price, 265.; post,
Is.); The Color Book of Photo-
graphy (price, 18s. 9d.; post lOd.).
R.S .-.World Bowls, by Dr. John
Fisher (price, 255. 3d.; post Is.).
This Js Australia, edited by Oswald
Ziegler (price, ’ 505.; post, 25.)
T.R.M.: It would be necessary to
know a lot more about your state of
finances (possibly more than you are
prepared to disclose) before any
advice given could be useful....
H.S.T.: (1) Write H. B. Selby and
Co. Pty., Ltd., 254 a George Street,
Sydney. (2) Tax on total taxable
income less tax already deducted
from salary and other sources leaves
tax due—and provisional tax for
the next year....A.G.W. and
G.L.H.: See “Business, Robbery,
Etc.” (p. 22) of The Bulletin for
July 24, 1957.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name ami address must appear on_
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken le contribution, voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. sho'uld be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
A.J.: Very nearly P.T.: Con-
struction loose, grammar p00r....
T.8.M.: Shows slight promise
M.L.: That •’coruscating butter-
yellow teacup” coruscated 0ut....
R.K.: Try for a more natural style.
. ...A.P.: Reads like a soapbox
oration... .M.W.: Twenty - four
pages on a wandering waif! ....
K.R.: Good subject-matter, but
presentation amateurish... .S.D.:
Joe’s nagging wife divorced....
JJ.T.: Condense, strain, and
resubmit... .T.P.: Colorless. ...
W.F.F.: Humor overdone....S.J.:
Grinds along like a giant steam-
shovel .... L.McA.: Poem beginning
“When morning paihts the azure
sky cerise” didn't please... .B.B.:
Tossing words around like that
merely makes for a jagged style....
A.D.: Platitudinous... .C.F.: Just
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.]
nonsense K.T.8.: Smooth as
cactus T.A.: A hit-and-miss
yarn—mostly miss.... W.S.: No
need for that meandering preamble.
E.O.: That's not the way to
build up suspense... .J.E.E.: “1 am,
ot course, aware of the stringent
limitations imposed by your sub-
editors.” Then why not try to
observe them? .... 1.P.: A glimmer
of promise... .AJ.McD.: One or
twc oases in that long, sandy story.
D.J.: Keep those cotfeeshop-
geniuses.. . .R.D.S.: Tangle d-up
with cliches A.C.: Terribie
G.Y.: Wait a few years, and have
another go. . . .E.E.: Your style may
be “cultivated,” but just now it’s
weed-choked.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS-
EGYPT'S YEAR
T>RITISH and American
press - comment on the
anniversary of Egypt’s nation-
alisation of the Suez Canal:
“New York Times” editorial
comment : “From a balcony
overlooking Alexandria’s
‘Liberation Square’ that was
jam-packed with some 250,000
wildly cheering Egyptians Presi-
dent Nasser proudly proclaimed
his ‘glorious’ victory over both
‘Western imperialism’ and the
‘American dollar,’ and exulted
at the acclaim of the masses he
has learned to manipulate as
readily as did Hitler and
Mussolini. His impassioned
two-hour harangue, bristling
with vituperation for the West
and honeyed with praise for
Soviet Russia, marked the
climax of a week of festivities
in celebration of his overthrow
of King Farouk, his seizure of
the Suez Canal and the Open-
ing of his hand-picked puppet
Parliament. He underlined the
meaning of this harangue by
elaborate parades of his Soviet-
armed land, air and sea forces,
which, in man and weapons at
least, are the most formidable
in the Middle East.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“A year ago Egypt com-
manded the willing or unwilling
loyalty of all the Arab States.
Today only Syria backs her
policies.
“A year ago the Egyptian
Army impressed its neighbors.
Today, after its humiliation
by the Israelis, no one takes
it seriously.
“A year ago Egypt’s declared
aim of smashing the Baghdad
Pact was well within the bounds
of possibility. Today, with
the United States k member of
the military committee, the
pact has never been stronger.
“A year ago Egypt controlled
the Gulf of Akaba, denying
free access to Israeli shipping.
Today Israeli ships pass freely.
“A year ago the Americans
still placed great hopes on
Nasser and looked to Egypt
for leadership in Arabia. To-
day the Americans are backing
King Saud and the Eisenhower
doctrine’s principal success has
been to isolate Egypt.”
London “Economist”: “The
attitude of many Egyptians to
the regime after the crisis of
1956 seemed to be rather like
that of a grumbling but still
faithful housewife towards her
husband on the morning after
a big business party. The house
is a mess, the bills have not all
been paid yet, some of those
business friends looked a bit
shady; but these things have
to be done if you are to get on
in the world; for Heaven’s
London "Daily Mirror”
"I SAY, SELWYN, ITS ALMOST THE SAME OLD CROCK
AS OURS.”
sake, though, not another party
for a long time to come. Still,
a big deal was pulled off, and
perhaps it was worth it.
Divorce? Well, it might be
nice to be flee, but you do
need a man around the house,
and the next one might be
Worse. Perhaps this one will
settle down a bit now, look
after the garden, be more
tolerant when the children
chatter, and become less touchy
with the neighbors.”
The same: “How solid are
the economic foundations? Will
they stand up to outside pres-
sure? The two most serious
effects of the Suez crisis were
the sharp reduction in cotton
exports and the continued
freezing of Egyptian sterling
and dollar assets. Imports had
to be cut; economic develop-
ment was slowed down, though
it was not stopped altogether.
The general picture appears to
be one of shortage, strain and
difficulty, but not of stagnation
or impending collapse. Egypt
can probably scrape together,
at least for some time to
come, enough foreign ex-
change for its most vital needs
by a combination of straight
exports, barter deals and
revenue from canal tolls,
perhaps until a financial settle-
ment is reached with Britain.
But it is still cotton that counts
above all in the country’s
economy. And perhaps the
most important single factor in
Egypt’s future economic and
political development is the
extent to which it can increase
its cotton exports and recapture
its lost markets in the non-
Communist world.”
* * *
Marguerite Higgins in New
York ‘‘Herald Tribune” :
“Egypt finds itself temporarily
stymied in the attempt to unite
the far-flung Moslem world in
an anti-Western coalition. But
in Washington’s eyes, this gain
for the West is very much
tempered by the other main
event set in motion by the
Suez affair —the realisation for
the first time in history of the
Soviet Union’s long-held dream
of being an important Medi-
terranean Power. It is a
development which would not
have been possible without
Russian championship of Arab
nationalism against the British,
French and Israelis and with-
out the dependence of Egypt
and Syria on Soviet arms.”
* * *
Michael Adams in “Man-
chester Guardian”: “The
[U.S.] State Department shows
a surprising complacency about
the recent march of events in
the Middle East. King Saud,
the Americans seem to feel,
has been won over to respec-
tability by the courteous recep-
tion given to him when he
visited Washington in January
(even if he still tends to speak
out in turn about the Gulf of
Akaba); King Hussein in
Jordan is pictured as the gallant
defender of his country’s inde-
pendence, whereas, for all his
courage and the astuteness of
his advisers, he remains in
fact the precarious ruler of a
hostile kingdom—and, what
is worse in Arab eyes, an
American pensioner to boot. A
complacent view is taken of
Nasser’s economic difficulties,
which are indeed acute, but
which will never alone bring
him to heel. Even the Lebanese
elections, which, in fact, were
a characteristically Middle
Eastern scramble for office,
were misrepresented abroad as
an expression of popular feeling
against Egypt and in favor of
the Eisenhower doctrine.
“All this is dangerous
nonsense, not only because
Nasser won a clear and
popular victory over the Suez
Canal, not only because he was
able to turn Israel’s military
victory into a diplomatic defeat
which has embarrassed Ben-
Gurion on the internal front,
not only because the Suez
episode raised Nasser’s standing
to a point where the Secretary-
General of the United Nations
had to visit him and return
empty-handed after a week of
negotiation. These are details
beside the central fact that,
whatever the attitude towards
him of the other Arab Govern-
ments (of which only the
Lebanese looks as secure as his
own), Nasser still and more
than ever has a hold on the
minds of the Arab peoples,
many of whom feel a stronger
loyalty to him as the leader of
Arab nationalism than they do
to their own Governments.”
Atomic Submarines
- There are few more impres-
sive reminders of the poten-
tialities of atomic power than
the occasional press references
to Uncle Sam’s nuclear sul>
marine Nautilus and the cruis-
ing distances it has piled up
without refuelling.
Currently noted by London
“Economist” as being in for its
first refuelling “after a highly
successful 60,000-mile voyage
lasting two years,” Nautilus is
the prototype of 13 U.S. atomic
submarines, one of which, the
Skate, has just been launched.
Commenting on this atomic
fleet, which is in various stages
of building, the “Economist”
notes two vessels “of excep-
tional interest —the Triton and
Halibut”:
“The Triton, which will cost


Most economical tyres you can
buy.. GOODYEAR
t 3 J;
•^sss*
No matter where you drive—in tight
city traffic, over rough country roads
or on the touring highway—Goodyear
Tubeless tyres with miracle "Cold
Rubber" bring you superior tyre per-
formance —at lowest cost per mile. It's
being proved every day by enthusiastic
motorists who have fitted the safest,
most economical tyres ever built
Goodyear Tubeless.
good/year
TUBELESS AND TUBE-TYPE TYRES


Between
Ourselves
£■>
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
$lOO million as against the
average price of $6O million for
other nuclear models, is the
largest submarine ever buijt.
This underwater monster will
be versatile enough to hunt
submarines, lay mines, act as a
supply-vessel, . carry beach-
raiding commandos and pro-
vide a mobile platform for
guided-missiles—all in addition
to its main job of giving warn-
ing of enemy ships and aircraft.
Together with the Halibut, the
first submarine specifically
intended for missile-launching,
the Triton represents an
approach towards what is being
called ‘the fourth dimension
of warfare.’
“As outlined by Senator
Jackson, the chairman of the
military applications branch of
Congress’s Atomic Energy
Committee, intermediate-range
ballistic missiles, with nuclear
warheads and ranges of up to
1500 miles, would be fired
under water from a perpetually
mobile launching - platform.
With such an ever-shifting
deterrent fleet, dispersed over
millions of square-miles with-
out any need to refuel, it would
be impossible for the enemy to
eliminate American bases and
American retaliatory power in
a single surprise blow. Mr.
Jackson argued that ‘ballistic
seapower’ would be a strategic
magnet drawing the enemy’s
attack away from cities, and
that it should have a special
appeal to small, concentrated
countries like Britain.
“In face of the economy
drive, Senator Jackson and his
scientific advisers argue that
insufficient priority is being
given to the development of the
new missiles and the submarines
to launch them which this major
strategic function wouid
require. The Navy’s official
answer is that more money and
effort cannot be well spent
until a solution has been found
to the crucial problem of
precise mid-ocean navigation.
On ground missile-sites, range
to specific targets in Russia can
be worked out in advance
during peace-time. But the
accurate launching and
guidance of a missile from a
constantly shifting platform,
even leaving aside the added
complication of projecting it
N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
WHEN THAT NEXT MEAL ROLLS AROUND?
through the two elements of
water and air, present stagger-
ing difficulties.”
Israel and British Oil
Commenting on the decision
"by British Petroleum and Royal
Dutch-Shell to close down their
marketing organisation in
Israel (described as “a com-
mercial step for commercial
reasons”) London “Economist”
says—as nicely as it could be
said—that "the desire of oil
companies to keep clear of
politics is. perfectly sincere, but
the facts of life are often
against its fulfilment.”
Thus, while the reasons
which made oil marketing and
refining unattractive in Israel—
“crude oil is brought to Haifa
not from any Middle Eastern
field but from Venezuela, a
costly haul ; and the Haifa
refinery runs at only 30 per
cent, of capacity, because its
products are marketed in Israel
alone”—may be good com-
mercial reasons, they stem
directly from a political
source: the Arab boycott.
On that reasoning, “Israeli
comment roundly accuses the
British Government, as the
principal shareholder in British
Petroleum, of having approved,
if not instigated, an attempt to
curry favor with the Arabs at
Israel’s expense” (London
“Economist”); London “Time
and Tide” considers that the
decision by the oil companies,
if implemented, will be “a
calamitous capitulation to the
demand of those [the Arabs]
who organise the economic
blockade of that country
[lsrael]” ; whi 1 e Edinburgh
“Scotsman” notes that “a
spokesman for the petrol com-
panies has ‘refused to confirm,’
but can hardly deny, that there
has been pressure upon them
by members of the Arab
League to withdraw their
interests from Israel.”
All of which would seem to
confirm the “Economist”
observation about oil, politics
and the facts of life.
A further significant com-
plication stems from the British
Government’s controlling
interest (51 per cent.) in British
Petroleum. Although th e
Government directors of the
company are instructed not to
interfere in the management
where purely commercial
decisions are concerned, “one
sees quite clearly,” the
“Manchester Guardian” com-
ments, “that, as in the case of
B.P. and its Israeli interests, the
Government cannot avoid
being dragged in whenever
there is a contentious decision,
more especially so if another
country happens to be involved.
The Government is bound to'
be suspected of using its influ-
ence behind the scenes ; even if
people in this country [Britain]
could be persuaded of its
innocence, it is unlikely that a
foreign Government would be
as trusting.”
The warning here, of course,
is against Government invasion
of industry, such as Mr.
Gaitskell’s plan to buy-up
shares in private companies
out of State funds.
Sir Hartley Shawcross, the
“Manchester Guardian” adds,
some months ago warned the
Labor party of the perils it
would run into if it tried to
take over firms like 1.C.1. and
TJnilever, with their vast over-
seas interests.
“Not much notice was taken
of him then, so it is quite likely
that the lessons of the B.P.
affair will not be heeded either.
The Labor party and
especially its intellectual wing
—has always tended towards
an extreme nationalism in
economic policy. Plans are
drawn up without much regard
ever to the way in which these
might be regarded abroad. But
even if they are not troubled by
the complications they may be
landed into internationally, do
the Labor leaders really
imagine that the electorate at
home is going to view things
any differently?
“It is surely naive to think
that a Government is going to
be allowed to wash its hands of
responsibility if a company
over which it has financial
control decides, for example, to
shut down a factory and
declare several thousands of its
workers redundant.”
Nationalism
Italy having reported to U.N.
Trusteeship Council that
Somaliland will be ready to
become an independent
sovereign State by 1959, the
question arises as to how the
country —“one of the poorest,
most miserable areas of the
world” —will support itself.
A survey mission of the
International Bank reported
that Somaliland might need
“exceptional assistance” for 20


f
Ip
M
if \
-
f m
i mm
A: <
I -•
\ i i (.‘Mil
, - PIhIIH
• iLA'A/•;:• Lb g? !
\
\ 5 f
3
&•< p
*•«
8'
! *
K
: >?'
IA
L_L_
!
U
I i
S~-U
ffi:W
1 * g£s*B
i I Si ii'iiJ
; /&!
X x
X, \
I
"xi
Mwww»»'»wvw^|j
Two ways of looking
at a hold-up • •«
It can be a blessing. Take the Stamina hold-up, for example
the elastic waist, self-supporting hold-up in Stamina’s new
style, self-supporting boys’ knickers. Now, there’s something
wonderful! No shirt-waist buttons to worry about; no
troublesome belt; those knickers are adjustable. They
have a button-adjustment on the waist, and a generously
wide hem. They look smarter and they last longer.
ASK FOR
Stamina
ELASTIC (JURIST meaezs
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
years or more, but didn't seem
to think any big loans justified ;
Italy apparently regards it as
U.N.’s responsibility; U.N.,
on the other hand, has no
authority to give direct assist-
ance to national Governments.
In this situation, by no
means unfamiliar, it is cus-
tomary to look to Uncle Sam,
and, as Milwaukee (U.S.A.)
“Journal” puts it, the proposal
“was that the United States, in
its concern with fighting Com-
munism and extending demo-
cracy, might be willing to pro-
vide funds necessary to keep
Somaliland going after 1960.
“For all this questioning and
doubt, no one stood up and
said the obvious: That Somali-
land isn’t qualified to be a
sovereign State and the pro-
gramme for its independence is
a mistake. Because of today’s
enchantment with nationalism
and ‘self-determination of
peoples,’ few world leaders
will dare to express such simple
truth.
“So, come 1961, this poverty-
stricken area, with neither
population nor resources to
support itself, will become an
independent nation, with a full
vote in the U.N. Assembly.
And, for the foreseeable
future, it will have to be
propped up by outside financial
aid.
“Somaliland is the perfect
example of the ridiculous
extremes to which unthinking
worship at the shrine of
nationalism is taking the
modern world.”
Various Voices
Mr. Menzies: “If the [U.N.]
Assembly becomes a battle-
ground of scheming factions it
will soon disintegrate, because
it will serve as an instrument of
division and not of unity and
peace. If the General Assembly
is to enjoy even the name of
‘World Parliament' it must
adopt proper Parliamentary
procedures, including adjourn-
ments where necessary and
adequate opportunity for
informed debate.’’
* * *
Sir Winston Churchill: “The
concept of the United Nations
was a remarkable one, but in
its present form it has shown
itself impotent in time of crisis
and effective only against those
who are prepared to respect its
opinions. To rely solely on
the United Nations Organisa-
tion would be disastrous for the
future.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Opera House Appeal
The financial response at the
opening of the Opera House
appeal in the Sydney Town
Hall must have been disappoint-
ing to the promoters. “S. M.
Herald” gave the result of the
day’s promises as £235,000.
That included £lOO,OOO each
from the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment and the City Council. The
remaining £35,500 consisted of
five donations which totalled
£32,000, leaving only £3500 to
be subscribed by what “S. M.
Herald” described as the
“wildly enthusiastic crowd of
2500 which packed the Town
Hall, stamped their feet,
clapped and cheered.” An
appeal that is to raise at least
£3,500,000 in a few years will
have to tap some hitherto
hidden sources if it is to get the
money in time.
The issue of “S. M. Herald”
in which the Opera House
appeal was given so much
space also contained a letter
saying that the Hammondville
home for the aged at Glebe is
to be closed because £15,000 is
needed to carry out renovations
and the money is not available.
It so happened that on a cold
day a few days before the
Opera House appeal was
launched I inspected six homes
for the aged around Sydney,
and in only one of them was
a fire burning for the comfort
of the inmates. In the others,
although they were clean and
well-conducted, the occupants
who were not in bed sat
huddled in chairs with rugs
wrapped around them. It was
a dull day and too cold to sit
outside. The simple explana-
tion of the lack of heating was
that there was no money to
pay for it.
According to “S. M. Herald,”
Mr. Cahill was “almost over-
come with emotion” as he
opened the Town Hall meeting.
1 wonder what his reaction
would have been had he seen
the scores of aged people
shivering for want of a fire as I
saw them? —M. F. Dixon
(N.S.W.).
Go Slow
Go-slow tactics at Mt.
Morgan (Q.) seriously affected
production to the extent that
the mine management, in an
open letter to the people of
Mt. Morgan, pointed out that
unless production was
increased to over a certain
figure the mine would have to
be closed. At a weekend meet-
ing, virtually to decide the
future of the mine and the
town with it, good sense pre-
vailed and the mineworkers
voted to end the go-slow, and
to accept wage - increases
offered by the company. The
mine has been closed in times
past with painful results for
the town, as there is no
alternative industry—Postie
(Q).
Poachers
The answer to “Anti-
Oyster’s” query, “Why Is
Pearling Case Delayed?” (B.
31/7/’57), is the same as that
given to me in the ’thirties by
a top official at Thursday
Island when I asked him why
there seemed to be so much
inertia regarding prosecution
of Japanese boats which were
poaching pearl and trochus.
A 40ft. Jap sampan laden
with trochus (a quantity of it
undersized) had just been
brought in under escort from
within the Queensland limits,
but the officer told me he
could hold the poacher for only
24 hours unless instructions for
prosecution were received
from Canberra —“and those, if
they come, will not reach me
for a week, long after these
fellows have gone!” he com-
mented bitterly. “Why? Well,
Canberra holds the strings—
Australia must not lose the
sale of wool to Japan!”
That the Government did not
want to antagonise Japan in
any way was evidenced by
various other episodes, as
when one of our gunboats,
after a report of poachers at
work, dashed out from T.I.
with much siren-blowing, but
slowed down as soon as it
cleared the harbor to enable
the sampans to get away.
That sort of thing was a
stock joke up north, although
Torres Strait islanders who
were heavily fined if found
with undersize trochus-shell
in their possession didn't think
it quite so humorous.
Now it looks as though
history is repeating itself in
North Australian waters,
although it must be recognised
that the collection of islands,
reefs and sandbanks in Torres
Strait over which the Aus-
tralian flag waves does make it
difficult to know just exactly
where the three-mile limit runs.
—C. Coral (Tas.).
Decimal Currency
The Decimal Currency
Council’s slogan, “A hundred
to one it’s easier,” neatly pin-
points the advantage of decimal
coinage as compared with our
rather cumbersome present
system. The gains in speedier
calculation and saving of time,
be the transaction a household
budget or an international deal,
are widely recognised, but the
campaign for decimal cur-
rency has made small progress
in Australia over 20 years or
more.
The initial inconvenience of
the change has been a consider-
able factor in preserving our
present system, yet a method of
conversion retaining the value
of existing coins should be a
comparatively simple
manoeuvre for our financial
wizards, and the public would
soon adopt the idea with the
daily use of money.
Other countries have made
the change successfully, the
most recent being India. The
problems involved do not,
therefore, appear insurmount-
able.
But no royal commission
on the subject, please! There
was'one on monetary and bank-
ing systems about 20 years
back and it found in favor of
the decimal.— Xavier (Vic.).
Tobacco
“R.G.V.” is wishful-think-
ing when he suggests (B.
7/ 8 / ’57) that the average
habitual smoker could not
detect cigarettes made of 100
per cent. Australian leaf from
“Australian”-brand (i.e., Vir-
ginia-blended) cigarettes. Pure
Australian leaf is naturally
“dry” and, therefore, too light
when cut fine for cigarettes
unless blended with a moister
leaf. For the same reason, even
when cut coarser for pipe-
smoking, it bites or burns the


You, too, can take
flash snaps anytime, anywhere!
Flasholder
price £3/5/9
Including fittings
KODAK FLASHOLDER MODEL 2
, enables you to get brilliant snaps of family life, parties, social occasions,
on dull days or at night, indoors or out! “Flash time’’ is anytime and
anywhere! The easy-to-use Kodak Flasholder may be used with most types
of cameras and extends your snapshot hobby over the whole year and
right around the clock. It’s fun. Try it this week-end.
* Pan means PANCHROMATIC . . . faster
and more sensitive to colour and tone values
in black and white pictures. New Verichrome
Pan is . . .
YOUR FAVOURITE FILM
NOW BETTER THAN EVERS
m
Nn r ?"'*
ICodiilk DEALERS EVERYWHERE
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD., 379-38! GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Also at NEWCASTLE and KATOOMBA. Branches in ail States
KP3
tongue of the smoker not
accustomed to it. —P. O. M. C.
(N.S.W.).
I’ve smoked a pipe for almost
50 years and started on Vir-
ginian tobacco. I can assure
“R.G.V.” that Australian pipe-
tobacco lacks all the good
qualities of the imported article.
The Australian stuff has no
flavor, is hot-burning and, in
a blindfold test, the heat of the
bowl, quite apart from the
flavor, would indicate which
was imported and which was
Australian.
To break-in a new pipe one
has to buy imported tobacco
or ruin the pipe, and to get
a decent smoke at any time
one has to blend the domestic
product with expensive im-
ported t o b a c c o.— D. Ex. F.
(N.S.W.). /
Pearlshells
Curtains for the m.-0.-p.
industry? Not in your lifetime,
“Shamuseen” (B. 17/7/’57) ;
not while the fashion-world
lasts.
The whole world pants for
shell —for trochus, green-snail,
clam, turtle, m.-0.-p. —and
even worm-infested stuff has
brought the craziest prices
along with small-sized shell,
uneconomical for button-
cutting. Up to £AIO2O a ton
was paid last season in the
market, with many of the
keenest buyers shut out. The
U.K. button industry asked
just how long astronomical
prices were going to last, then
announced that it could not
continue at present figures. But
it still buys.
Though trochus is not so
valuable as m.-0.-p., it still
brings in the money from the
U.K., Germany, Italy, France
and the U.S. New Caledonia
alone last season exported 38-
million Pacific-francs'-worth —
the third export after nickel
and coffee ; Fiji exported 337
tons, worth £F 102,988; and
the N. Hebrides exported 122
metric tons, worth £29,902.
French buyers took 171 tons,
worth £52,571 ; W. Germany
57 tons ; Hong Kong 50 tons ;
Australia 36 tons; Japan 15
tons on top of her allowable
take with her own luggers of
1000 tons in northern Aus-
tralian waters.
One report says Hong
Kong imports at least 100 tons
a month, and the U.K. button
industry has been perturbed
for some time by the huge
amount of shell and buttons
exported to Britain and said to
be wholly of Hong Kong
origin. Japan produces the
cheapest pearl-buttons known.
Gold or black-lipped m.-0.-p.
brings the highest price, being
the thickest and best quality.
Beautifully marked, it reaches
16in. across and cuts up well
in the button industry, where-
as chicken-sized stuff is waste-
ful.
The nacreous, opalescent
eoating, periostracum, is the
third of three layers, pearled
to about an inch from the
edge. Wholly iridescent, the
prismatic layer may be golden-
rayed, rainbow-hued or even
red. Some varieties are moony-
white. All m.-0.-p. is com-
posed of calcium carbonate,
the same essence that forms
the natural pearl. Transparent
at first, the shell hardens and
thickens with age. It is never
shed, for it protects the enclosed
fish; if the shell is damaged,
the fish repairs the break with
its own natural essence,
Classed with the Margaritifeva
linne family of shells (linne ■
for the Swedish botanist Lin-
nasus), it has, according to evi-
dehce from fossils, been in
existence since time began,
Reasons why all shell is in
such demand are: shortage of
c „n„u.-o _ , ~
aUPP ‘“ S W , h ‘ ch ar f . eas (han f
P^-war; the exp citation of
, e in^ustl T by islanders and
dealers in. that any rules for
conservation have been dis-
regarded ; the
taking of spat or chicken shell
before it has reached the breed-
ing stage; the plundering of
trochus reefs ; the shortage of
divers and lack of licences to


fish ; and the rise of clothing
standards.
The wearers of good shirts
in the US. demand ocean
pearl-buttons on their garments
—special tags attached guaran-
tee “Ocean pearl-buttons.”
Women wearing better-class
overcoats and suits also demand
pearl - buttoned garments ;
synthetic buttons will not do
except on lower - graded
clothes. The demand for pearl-
buttons in the clothing trade
has never been as great, and
manufacturers are wondering
just what the cost will be this
season and next. However
high it goes, no m.-0.-p. will be
left over towards the follow-
ing season. There was none
over last year when the selling-
season closed early i n
December.
Experts on trochus and
m.-0.-p. are now taking steps
in the Pacific to conserve this
valuable industry, which
yielded £500,000 to N.Z. alone
in the past five years. Shell has
been successfully transplanted
to suitable areas in various
islands by instructors of the
South Pacific Commission.
A project is under way in
New Caledonia for the Institut
Franfais d’Oceanie, under
fisheries expert Mr. van Pel.
The biology of trochus has been
studied, lectures instituted, a
fishermen’s school started and
the transplantations of spat
have been successfully followed
up. There are new regulations
for the taking of any shell,
and the substitution of aqua-
lung for the usual diving
apparatus is being studied.
Where necessary, the few
months’ season for shell-fishing
will be shortened, while the
size allowed has been raised
from 8 to 10 centimetres (about
4in.). Beds will not be over-
depleted.
,At Manihiki, the allowed
size is increased to sin., and
diving apparatus is not allowed
in the shallower beds. Closed
through 1956, in 1955 Manihiki
produced £123,000-worth of
shell, mostly m.-0.-p. Its
closure was a great loss to
Cook Islanders and dealers. No
lagoon may use more than
six divers each season. Live
m.-0.-p. was transferred from
Manihiki to Rakahanga and
large transfers are arranged for
Puka Puka lagoon.
In the Solomons licences are
now necessary before trochus,
m.-0.-p. and turtle-shell may be
exported to places outside the
sterling area ; new regulations
are apparently designed to
plug currency leakages. Where
licences are granted, exporters
must have payments for such
goods credited to their accounts
with a bank in the 8.5.1. P.
There has been a lot of
queer business in shell, with
itinerant buyers appearing over-
night and departing with big
hauls of shell awaiting legiti-
mate traders. The industry is
a valuable one, a natural asset
which should be preserved,
because, apart from the money
involved, it helps keep island
communities together and gives
the islanders a living, particu-
larly so with the price of copra
down.—H: W. (N.Z.).
i
Slow Reading
When the W.A. Adulf
Education Board announced its
first “Speed Up Your Reading”
course, it had so many
applicants that more had to be
rejected than accepted. I was
one of the lucky ones, and with
the course now finished I
marvel that one should for so
long put up with the handicap
of slow reading.
It seems that, given an
average 1.Q., there is little
excuse for slow reading. Faulty
teaching during early school
years may contribute, but an
adult who realises his slow-
ness should, with a little help
from such bodies as the A.E.B.
or from texts, be able to put his
finger on the reasons for his
trouble. Once this is done, it
is simply a matter of practice
and the breaking of bad read-
ing habits.
The reading techniques
taught during the recent course
are obvious enough when
pointed out, and include the
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 448
Across
I—Mother keeps lousy company —just for spite. (6)
3—Knave who now rules us ducks a station hand. (8)
7—Neatens it the wrong way and pegs out. (6)
9—Put a stone enclosure around a kangaroo—he’s a big
specimen. (8)
12 —Girl who seems to make an inquiry as to mother’s
intentions. (5)
13 — Again becomes associated with
concern for Josephine in the
south. (7)
14— Lamb’s boy. (5)
15— Conservative barracking in the
midst of such fiction. (9)
17 —Wavering vacation shortened by
a sick six-footer. (9)
19 — Cheery, full of hearty fun. (5)
20— Back up a majestic character
exhibiting indigestion in an
unmajestic way. (6)
21 — Esmond the Marxist arrives. (5)
23 — Animal article associated with
last month’s bashes as you can
be seen interrupting seafaring
men. (8)
24 — Friend of a famous Finn who gets
his working materials from a
feller in the forest. (6)
25 — Holds off in favor of Goldilocks’s
pursuers. (8)
26 — Frees which shake like writers. (6)
Down
1 — Car racer’s most important asset?
It works a muscle. (5, 5)
2 Latins in the New World are
about to interrupt a chain-store
magnate. (7)
4 An area on a muscular twitch’s
amorous verses. (12)
5 It sounds like “curtains” for Aus-
tralia’s Miss Nichols, according
to the nark. (7)
6 Woodwind instruments. (5)
B—The8 —The feathers found in societies
like a disappointed over-bidder.
(4, 2,5)
10 — Art of reshaping a nose which
is damaged in the reshaped
python’s lair. (11)
11— The mirth of a monkey’s relative?
It’s worth a sentence. (12)
16—Consoles an island off Florida
lodges. (9)
18 — Honolulu caters for people who
have plenty of this Hawaiian
garland without a doubt. (7)
19 — The spreads manufactured by
James with the heeby-jeebies. (7)
22—State if it’s an urchin. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 447


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
Faith iii the
Future
Among the many millions of people in the
Asian-Pacific sphere, those with the closest cultural
ties to us as Christians are the Filipinos.
The Faith was brought to them by Spanish
missionaries in the 16th Century; their Santa
Tomas University in Manila was founded in 1611,
one hundred and fifty nine years before Captain
Cook sighted the east coast of Australia.
And we have with- these 20,000,000 people,
too, the unbreakable bond that was made in the
Pacific War. It was the Philippine-Australian
bridge that kept open the road leading to victory
for the Allied arms.
So it comes as welcome news—a further
portent of the advancement of Pacific relations—
that Australia is to seek a trade agreement with
the Philippine Republic.
One avenue of increased trade with Manila
that impresses me, becaujse it bears on the develop-
ment of northern and inland Australia, is in the
export of cattle. The Philippines present a valuable
market not only for meat but for livestock. It is,
in fact, a market that has been opened already and
only awaits expansion.
On an official estimate, more than 10,000 head
of cattle will be shipped to the Philippines from
North Australian ports this year. Two ships on
regular service have been taking up to 1500 head a
month from Townsville and Cairns to Manila. And
buyers, offering payment in dollars, are seeking
more cattle from the Gulf of Carpentaria and the
Northern Territory.
I mention this because it demonstrates so
clearly the possibilities that lie in a practical trade
between ourselves and Asian countries.
The thing is to get agreement. The Philippines
recently imposed higher duties on certain imports,
to meet the Government’s financial problems. And
Australia herself in the last few years has been
following a general policy of import restrictions.
A trade treaty would remove at least some of the
barriers to closer trade with the Philippines.
I sincerely hope it will come: not as a cold
bargain, but as one more expression of the
friendship that now exists between us and the
Philippine people.
////(isfu^s
arts of skimming, pre-reading,
phrase-recognition, the exten-
sion of the recognition-span
between fixation-points, and
the avoidance of regressions.
But the aspect that most
surprised me w.as the absence
of any direct relationship
between speed and comprehen-
sion. Possibly one of the main
reasons for slow reading is the
fear of missing something, the
fear that if you start reading
faster you are going to absorb
less. The exercises we were
given quickly exploded this
theory. It was proved to us
that comprehension did not
increase appreciably by poring
over an article compared with
reading it flat out. As one of
the instructors put it, “if you
are not remembering any more
(by slow reading) you might
just as well take less time not
to remember it.”
It is no small satisfaction to
find yourself reading half as
fast again at the end of a 10-
weeks course as you were at
the beginning, and to know
that, if you’re keen, there’s no
reason why you won't continue
to improve.— Geep (W.A.).
Car Thefts
Perhaps insurance payouts
have led to petty-sessions courts
taking a dim view of offences
relating to motorcars (B.
31/7/’57).
Illegal car-users have been
under fire in most States
recently, and in Queensland
the offence is now an indictable
one and punishable by a jail
term instead of a fine on sum-
mary conviction, as in previ-
ous cases.
In nearly all cases of illegal
car-use and drunken driving,
many insurance companies
have made substantial payouts
for damaged vehicles, and it’s
fairly obvious that insurance
companies are in a better posi-
tion to create more fuss and
get things done than are the
ordinary victims of thefts and
similar offences.
With characteristic lack of
logic, the petty-sessions courts
have no doubt interpreted
legislation providing for heavier
penalties for drunken driving
and illegal car-use as applic-
able to all offences in which
a motorcar is mentioned in the
charge or in evidence.
But, quite apart from motor-
vehicle offences, penalties
imposed in petty-sessions courts
for various offences are gener-
ally illogical and indicate a
need for overhaul.
Shortly after the war, a Bris-
bane mam just discharged from
the Army was fined £3O for
raffling among his workmates
a bottle of whisky which had
been presented to him at a
welcome-home party. Next on
the list was a waterside-worker
who had been found smoking
in the hold of a munitions ship,
which carried enough
explosives to blast the city off
the map. He was fined £5.
In other typical instances,
a man who admitted com-
mitting an offence on a small
girl was fined £5, despite his
previous convictions, while
another man, unemployed, was
jailed for three months for
stealing a few shillings’-worth of
groceries to provide some food
for his children. It was his first
offence.
Anomalies such as these are
occurring continuously in petty-
sessions courts, but no one
seems interested in doing any-
thing about it.
Another unhappy aspect of
petty-sessions jurisdiction is the
attitude of many magistrates,
to whom the fact of a person
being charged by police is
apparently conclusive proof of
guilt. Where indictable
offences are concerned, the
same magistrates, irrespective
of the nature of the evidence or
the apparent innocence or
otherwise of the person
charged, seem incapable or
unwilling to exercise their dis-
cretion in deciding whether the
police have made out a prima
facie case in support of the
charge.
Instead of making a decision,
they take what must appear to
be the easy way and commit
the accused for trial, thus put-
ting him to the expense and
worry of a Criminal Court
trial, even when the evidence
would indicate a summary
acquittal.
It doesn’t make any differ-
ence to the magistrate if the
person committed is sub-
sequently acquitted, or if the
Crown enters a nolle prosequi
in the case. The person con-
cerned is, of course, the loser,
for he cannot recover his con-
siderable costs against the
Crown.
A fundamental rule of law 'in
British courts is that “justice
must not only be done, but it
must appear to have been
done.” In 10 years of court-
reporting, I’ve noticed the rule
is frequently ignored.— Sparks
(Q).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
BEEF-CATTLE AT BRISBANE
•THE tremendous pastoral and
agricultural potential of
Queensland’s sprawling terri-
tories has never been given so
triumphant a demonstration as
at this year’s national Royal
Show at Brisbane.
One of the best features of
the Show was the beef-cattle
section. In one of the greatest
showing of stud beef-cattle ever
seen at Brisbane, Queensland
breeders held their own against
strong competition from N. S.
Wales, but it was in the fat-
cattle competitions, showing the
ultimate rewards of good breed-
ing and animal husbandry, that
the most spectacular results
were shown.
The 450 to 500 fats shown
were of a type that fitted the
exacting standards for home
and export trade better than at
any time in the past, according
to the judge, Harry Simpson,
who is one of Queensland’s
best-known cattle-buyers.
Mr. Simpson said the bulk
of beef being exported was far
too old and heavy. It was in
chilled-beef that the beef-
Sheep grazing in coun-
try which is copper-
deficient will yield
better fleece both in
weight and quality if
they are periodically
drenched with a
copper sulphate
drench. This has
been proved by a trial
conducted in a copper-
deficient area in
north-western Queens-
land. But whatever
the type of country
on which flocks graze,
lambs have a better
chance of avoiding
disease and set-back if
they are marked and
tailed by Elastrator
Rubber Rings rather
than by a less
hygienic method.
industry here would find its
salvation, and it was to this
end all must concentrate if
Australia was to survive as a
meat-exporting country.
The man who brought out
some of the best butchers’
steers seen, at the Brisbane
Show for years was J. Sparkes,
who controls the well-known
Lyndley group of Hereford and
Poll Hereford stations on
the Darling Downs. “This
wizard of the cattle game,” said
the judge, referring to the
group’s sensational chain of
championship awards at this
year’s Show, “has produced
stock that meet all that the
consuming public looks for in
good stock. They conform to
all the requirements in trim-
ness and compactness, which in
turn yield a maximum amount
of flesh and finish with the
least amount of waste.”
The Sparkes family showed
the champion steer (lan
Sparkes), reserve-champion
steer (J. Sparkes), champion
female (Mrs. A. G. Sparkes),
champion pen of bullocks (lan
Sparkes), champion pen of
females (Mrs. A. G. Sparkes),
and reserve-champion pen (J.
Sparkes). The champion steer,
a Poll Hereford, was impossible
to fault in conformation, even-
ness of fleshing and finish.
Mr. Sparkes and his family
capped their wins by taking off
the major awards in two live-
stock and carcass competitions
sponsored by the Queensland
Meat Industry Board to en-
courage production of the right
type of beef for export.
This year’s stud beef-cattle
parades were the largest ever
brought out at Brisbane. A
record overall entry of 532
head reflected the capacity of
leading studs of New South
Wales and Queensland to pro-
vide solid breed-foundations,
essential to meeting modern
trade requirements in the pro-
duction of quality beef.
Herefords had their best
showing here yet. According
to the judge, J. Sparkes, of
Lyndley, Jandowae (Q.), the
bulls were splendid types of
sires; not only the tops, but
bulls right down through the
classes, were splendid types.
Senior champion bull, Turee
Instructor, shown by the Turee
Hereford Stud (N.S.W.), had
earlier won the 18 to 21
months’ class—the biggest of
the section —in which there
were 42 contenders.
Instructor was lined-up with
Moorlands Limerick and
Woodlands EarLfor champion-
ship decision. Mr. Sparkes
said: “When you have three
bulls so close as these are it is
a difficult decision to make.
Any one of them was worthy of
a championship in any Royal
Show in the Commonwealth.”
Mr. Sparkes said Instructor was
a magnificent bull, with a
splendid head and outlook, a
good walker, and altogether of
a type looked to for a good
sire.
High praise was paid the
junior-champion bull, Windsor
Winston, owned by Town and
Country Lands Pty., Ltd.,
Windsor, Myall Creek,
Delungra (N.S.W.). “This is
one of the best Hereford bulls
I have seen at any Royal Show
in Australia,” said Mr. Sparkes.
“He has magnificent bone,
beautiful lines, and is the type
so very difficult to produce. He
is a great credit to his breeders.”
Poll Hereford parades were
among the biggest and most
impressive of the Show. It was
not a record showing of this
breed for Brisbane, but the
division brought out the largest
number of Poll Hereford bulls
ever exhibited at an Australian
Royal Show.
It was a great outing for
the breed, said the judge, R. L.
McEarchern, of Strathdownie
(Vic.). The exhibits indicated
that the breeding was being
pursued along the right lines,
and they showed the least “tail”
he had seen in eleven years'
experience of Brisbane Shows.
Lion’s share of the Poll
Hereford awards went to Mrs.
N. P. Wright, of Bickham,
Blandford (N.S.W.). Her wins
included the senior bull
championship with Blandford
Domino. His sire, Lyndley
Souvenir, won the senior
championship for Mrs. Wright
at Brisbane in 1952 after taking
off the junior championship in
1951.
Blandford Domino was
described by the judge as. a
good solid-type bull, with
plenty of bone and scale. He
was very evenly balanced, with
a deep-square hindquarter.
Judge of the Shorthorns,
R. S. Wilson, of Calliope
station, Gladstone (Q.), said top
exhibits of this breed were the
best seen in Brisbane in years.
Outstanding of them all was
the senior-champion bull, Apex
Gothic, entered by C. Parker,
of the Apex Stud, Meandarra
(Q.).
Commendable quality was
present in the Poll Shorthorn
bull classes, but there were not
as many top bulls as at past
Brisbane Shows. The judge,
G. W. N. Bassingthwaighte, of
Woodlands, Greenmount (Q.),
said this, no doubt, was due to
the recent dispersal of two
leading Queensland studs—
Netherby and Prospect.
The senior champion bull was
Lee Royal Duke, entered by
G. R. Lee and Sons, of Noorin-
doo, Surat (Q.).
Judge of the Aberdeen-
Angus section, L. Nicholas, of
Lilydale (Vic.), said there was
a marked improvement in the
breed’s average quality since
he last visited Brisbane three
years ago. Senior bull
champion, Sarum Economy,
was brought out by W. E.
Webster and Sons, of the
Sarum Stud, Kingaroy (Q.). Mr.
Nicholas said Economy was a
very good specimen of the
breed, and fitted the bill well
for quality.
Devons at the top of the
young bull classes would hold
their own anywhere in the
world according to the English
judge, A. N. Paton, of Brig-
water, Somerset.
Northman.
Laying Workers
“B-herd”: Egg-laying by one
of the undeveloped females in
the hive is the death-knell of
that colony ; it never happens
when the hive stands a chance
of survival—that is, when
ordinary larvae or queen are
present.
It is when a state of queen-
lessness has existed for some
time, and the need for larvae
is great, that one of the workers
takes on the task of egg-laying.
But, because she hasn’t been
fed with quantities of the
elixir, “royal jelly,” during the
larval phase of her life, the
worker-bee cannot lay the eggs
which will produce the workers.
Her eggs will hatch, but the
larvas will all be drones.
To the backyarder examin-
ing his colony, this brood, fed
in the normal way, may be mis-
leading, but the professional
picks it at a glance! His
immediate worry is how to rid
the hive of the false queen. For
some queer reason, the
impoverished colony hangs like


Maximum BLOWFLY Protection
KILLS
LICE & KED
S’; '<H
A
/4
X
A
!vX
-(
vV
O*
iik-
MUSTER
0 DIPPING
ONLYQvDIP TO USE
H 2
5*
• SUPERIOR SUSPENSION
• EASIEST TO MIX
• USE IN PLUNGE OR SHOWER
DIPS OR AS A JETTING FLUID
DIELSAN ... 66/6 PER PACK
In the last 12 months, Graziers have been convinced
that DIELSAN gives maximum protection at lowest
cost. Under ljd. per gallon for lice and ked control;
under sd. per gallon for MAXIMUM BLOWFLY
PROTECTION.
m
'A
BOOTS PURE DRUG CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
STDNBY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England, )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 <2 lines).
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
grim death to the impostor, and
any subsequent queens intro-
ouced in the normal way to this
colony will almost certainly be
done to death.
The loyal workers always
attack the strange queen: in
their mixed-up state they
believe they are queen-right
while the laying, worker is
present. Thus, to reclaim such
a colony sets a problem.
The best way out is to pull
the bottom-board off the colony
and unite them over a news-
paper to a colony needing more
bees. If the operator prefers
to save the colony, he first
observes the general state of the
bees ; if the inmates are aged
the colony stands little chance
of rearing a good queen —-
“royal jelly” is manufactured
by bees performing nurse-
duties, and these are about a
week or so old.
If he finds the hive has a
chance, he may pick up the
colony and carry it a couple
of hundred yards away from its
site. Here, he shakes every
comb in the hive free of bees,
bumps all the bees on to the
ground, and returns to the site
with the empty box. The idea
behind this is to rid the hive
of the counterfeit queen ; if she
remains there will be no cell-
rearing.
By bumping the bees on to
the ground in a strange place,
this is accomplished: the forag-
ing workers, familiar with the
landscape, take wing and will
beat the operator back to the
site, but the laying worker,
absorbed in home-duties for
so long she has forgotten her
locality, is bewildered and lost.
Back at the stand, the
operator picks a comb or two
of young brood from a colony
of good reputation, together
with adhering bees (for he
reeds the young bees for queen-
food making), places them in
the old hive-body, replaces
all the combs apart from any
with laying-worker brood in
them, and puts on the lid. As
soon as the hive is back on the
old stand, the searching
workers pour in, and normal
hive-conditions are set up
immediately.
Fodder Angles
“C.B.M.”: “Penola” (B.
10/7 /-’57) raises the whole
broad question of maintaining
and increasing our stock-casry-
ing capacity.
An arresting note in this
regard was recently struck by
the chairman of the Australian
Wheat Board, Sir John Teas-
dale, when he suggested to
wheatgrowers that they swing
over some of their activities to
livestock-raising.
This involves a number of
prime factors, most notably
(but little emphasised) that of
building-up reserves of stock-
fodder of various types. As a
bank-manager of nearly 40
years’ experience, I know its
worth from the national aspect,
as well as from the viewpoint
of the financial status of
individual farmers. These two
components are pretty well
identical, anyway.
Old Man Drought will
always pay his visits at in-
tervals ; and the man —or
community—that is prepared is
best able to weather the bad
times.
Last year I visited a South
Australian farm of 800 acres
in a 15-inch-rainfall area, and
noted the hay and grain in
storage. A large iron barn
built on concrete pillars over
which sheets of flat-iron had
been placed made the structure
mouseproof. Apart from
other grain, about 500 bags of
oats was stored there.
Two large stacks of hay of
about 50 tons each had been
erected at convenient points;
one stack had been raised
on wooden uprights well
covered with galvanised-iron,
the second stack was enclosed
with closely-riveted iron about
4ft. high. Both stacks w’ere
substantially covered with
straw fastened with wire, giving
a protection against the
weather.
This farmer told me—and I
confirmed it by inspection
—that the hay was practically
free of rats and mice, and
shielded from birds.
Rats and mice were entirely
absent from the barn, which
Apparatus shown in these photographs is called the Weighband.
A British invention, not yet on the Ausiralian market, it is
graduated to read live and dressed weight of cattle and pigs.
Welch Perrin, of Melbourne, report that more than 50,000 have
been sold in Europe and America, that the makers guarantee an
accuracy of within 3 per cent., and comment: “Growers of beef-
cattle, as well as pig-breeders, are very much concerned with
weight-gains, as otherwise feeding is a matter of guesswork, and
the Weighband at 355. may prove a useful alternative to platform-
scales at £400 to £500”
meant that a most valuable
supply of barley, Oats and
wheat was held without deteri-
oration pending dry conditions,
Every year, at some stage, the
owner fed some grain to his
flock, giving priority to his
breeding-ewes,
A large iron shed was full
of baled clover, harvested by
contractors. The owner didn’t
consider it sound finance to


The KEROSINE
used by the
ANTARCTIC EXPEDITION
KIROSt
{ lit -%
'■ # ~Av
1v... x^xvx-.:
- '
/a
c
COR
COMLITE
burns WARMER,
CLEANER, BETTER
1
k
KN2OI
* It’s easier and there's
a saving if you bring your
own container.
You can boy* Coralite
Kerosine by the tin where
you see these pumps
• • •
BP
m
su««
ALSO OBTAINABLE AT SELECTED STORES,
C.O.R AGENTS AND DEPOTS
Marketed by THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. an associate
The British Petroleum Company Ltd
of
C5l5*
buy expensive machinery to
do this exceptional work. His
view was that hay-stacks,
preferably of wheaten hay,
together with stocks of corn,
were effective safeguards
against drought. He said he
always cuts a portion of his
best wheaten crop for hay, uses
up some of the oldest each year,
keeping fresh reserves.
Many of the foregoing steps
could not be put into operation
years ago by the early settlers
because of lack of capital;
the old-timers were often forced
to turn production into cash
to carry on even restricted
operations. These conditions, in
my opinion, no longer apply.
The great obstacle in putting
fodder-conservation schemes
into effect is not lack of finance,
machineryjar labor, but apathy.
Another point: over a period
of years, stock-husbandry will
prove more profitable than
wheatgrowing. Costs of plant,
labor and replacements will
weigh increasingly against the
latter, and the market for
animal foodstuffs must im-
prove.
Phoiosensitisafion
“Geep”: Perhaps there is a
shorter common name for
photosensitisation, but if there
is, famous veterinary-
researcher H. W. Bennetts
doesn’t use it in his review of
the disease in a recent W.A.
“Journal of Agriculture.”
It is a type of sunburn, a
painful and unsightly com-
plaint which can lead to con-
siderable stock losses.
Photosensitisation is due to
the presence of foreign pig-
ments in the skin. These pig-
ments may be derived direct
from such plants as St. John’s-
wort and buckwheat, but in
many cases the troublesome
pigment is believed to arrive
indirectly from ordinary green-
feed.
The chlorophyll of green-
feed is broken-down during
digestion into a photosensitis-
ing pigment known as
phylloerythrin. In a healthy
animal this is excreted by the
liver before it causes trouble,
but with many forms of liver-
damage that organ is unable
to cope with the secondary pig-
ment, especially when the feed
is particularly lush. The result
is its concentration in, and
photosensitising of, the skin.
Plants in the West known to
produce liver-damage include
“rattle-pod'” (Crotalaria retusa),
varieties of lupin, wild radish,
caltrop, lantana and heliotrope.
The disease can, however,
develop in animals which have
neither fed on toxic plants nor
suffered any liver abnormality.
In these cases it occurs usually
after green-feed has become
plentiful after a dry spell, the
theory here being that even a
healthy liver cannot success-
fully handle the sudden high
intake of chlorophyll and its
by-product phylloerythrin.
Most farm-animals are sus-
ceptible, though pigs are only
rarely affected. Friesian and
Guernsey cattle, with their
white patches, white-faced
sheep, piebald and skewbald
horses, are most common
victims.
The sick animal instinctively
seeks the shade. Other symp-
toms are restlessness and flinch-
ing and, particularly in sheep,
pain that can cause the animal
10 become frantic. Swelling
occurs when ears, eyes, face,
lips are affected, and straw-
colored fluid oozes from the
surface. Crusts form which
after two or three weeks, failing
complications, fall away, leav-
ing healthy skin exposed.
Treatment consists in keep-
ing the victim as much as
possible out of direct light,
substituting dry feed for green,
and darkening white patches
with a non-irritant stain (such
as Condy’s crystals). •
Autumn Calving
“Milko”: More and more
Australian dairymen have
turned to autumn calving
(instead of late-winter calving")
of recent years. Lactations
which begin in March to June
increase butterfat yields by
401 b. to 501 b. a cow, and last
three weeks to a month longer
than those from later calvings.
Profits are higher because of
milk-bonuses while the milk
is flowing in the winter.
However, for autumn calv-
ings to be successful, general
management must be good.
Instead of cutting-down the
number of milkers in the early
and mid-winter while he goes
for a holiday, an owner must
keep up the handfeeding to
supplement the short pastures.
Northern Hemisphere
farmers put Daisy in the shed
and handfeed her for several
months. We can do the job a
lot more easily and cheaply by
having plenty of warm planta-
tions. Rugs help, but they're
not the real answer.
The final point is mud. Keep
the water moving, put-down
some good concrete tracks,
give internal roadways a good
camber and side-drainage, and
you will go a long way towards
cleaner milk, less mastitis, and
more contented cows.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The gaieties at Scone (N.S.W.), where
the film “The Shiralee” had its premiere
during the week, seem to have dimmed
the radiance of Sydney activities a little,
but there were quite a few things to see
here and quite a few interesting people to
meet.
* ☆ *
It is always pleasant to talk to someone
who has a subtle wit and a cosmopolitan
outlook, so it was most refreshing to meet
Ida Scott-Young, who is visiting Sydney
from Auckland. A Bulletin contributor
(her gay little piece “Atomic Reaction’
appeared on June 19), Mrs. Scott-Young
wrote for many Australian papers, includ-
ing “Smith's Weekly,” when she lived in
Sydney some years ago ; but writing is
by no means her first love. What she
likes best is “going abroad and watching
the cavortings of the international set.”
Her husband, Mr. M. Scott-Young, is at
present out Ayers Rock way on business,
and her daughters, Mrs. W. H. Hind, of
Chiswick, and Mrs. Ted O’Halloran, of
Wollongong, are sharing the pleasure of
her company. Later, a visit to Queens-
land’s Gold Coast is definitely on the pro-
gramme. That bright stretch of country
should certainly suit her temperament,
and perhaps, if we’re lucky, we may read
about her reactions to it later.
# V
The Beril Jents fashion-parade, the
12th annual parade Miss Jents has given
to aid the Royal N.S.W. Institution for
Deaf and Blind Children, was a model of
good production. The 900 women who
filled the Trocadero were all able to see
the lavish dresses shown, and were given
ample time (though not too much) to do
so. Mrs. Sam Lands was the president
of the organising committee, assisted by
Mrs. Bill White, Mrs. Leslie Tidmarsh,
Mrs. R. Kerville, Mrs. R. McDonald and
Mrs. F. Klinger. Noted that Mr. Ken
Noyle (who gave the amusing commen-
tary) begins his variety show “Strike a
New Note” next Friday for the A.B.C.
One of the feature spots of this show
is called “My Friend Mike,” and for it
Ken, before the show, uses a concealed
microphone to record reactions of the
public to certain situations: e.g., a man's
reply when asked to change his hair-style,
a salesgirl's comment on a man buying
a hat for his wife, etc. This should be
amusing, especially if that mike was at the
fashion-show!
☆ ☆ ☆
“An August Attraction” was the name
members of the Black and White Ball
committee gave to their party at the Pick-
wick last Wednesday, and the most attrac-
tive attraction, or at least the one which
caused the most laughter, was the contest
for the most shapely legs (male). Dr. Ken
Hill won it, but all the contestants con-
tributed to the fun. Organisers of the
party were Mrs. Bob Stephen, Mrs. Dan
Osborne, Mrs. Sylvia Quist, Mrs. David
Klippel and Mrs. Douglas Perkins.
Mrs. Frank McCall-Power (Bellevue
Hill) heads the new committee formed to
help raise funds for the Benevo-
lent Society’s Mothers and Babies
£100,000 Appeal. The committee
hopes to arrange at least one large annual
function for the appeal, probably a (lance
at Prince’s. One of the main objectives
of. the appeal is to provide a new labor-
ward at the Royal Hospital for Women,
which is one of the important hospitals
maintained by the Benevolent Society.
Photo by Norton Trevaire.
Last Wednesday night Mrs. Arthur
Davis, president of the Garden Club, was
welcomed home by members of the club
after five months abroad. Mrs. Davis
said that one of the essentials of a success-
ful tour of the Continent is a husband who
speaks the languages, but even Mr. Davis,
who can do that, objected to short trips
across borders and the changes from
“thinking in Italian to thinking in
French.” The party was held at the Aus-
tralia. Hotel, where Mrs. Meg McSperrin,
deputy-president, received the guests.
* ☆ *
One usually expects greeting-cards to
hope you will be happy and gay in every
way, and that sort of thing. Not so the
newest one noted. It showed a knock-
kneed ballerina and the words “Ever
heard of Swan Lake?” On opening the
card up, one saw a lake with ripples and
the words: “Well, go jump in it!”
Sir Earle Page officially opened the
Page Chest Pavilion at the Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital during the week, a
pavilion that has been given his name in
tribute to the work he has done in
the war against tuberculosis during the
past 20 years. It was heartening to hear
that during the past seven years the deaths
from t.b. have been reduced from 25 pet
100,000 in 1949 to 7.6 per 100,000 in
1956. The new pavilion, eight floors in
height, will contribute to the eradication
of the disease ; when that is accomplished
the pavilion will become part of the
general hospital structure.
V V V
Noted with pleasure was the beautiful
color-scheme of the Tivoli’s new show,
“Say It with Stars.” Reds, cream, brown,
caramel and allied shades have been used
with striking effect, the final curtain being
particularly pleasing. Also noted was the
splendid work done by Australian artists
in this show —as well as the overseas
talent, of course. Bobby Limb and Dawn
Lake, Darryl Stewart, Johnny O’Connor,
Alwyn Leckie, the brilliant young Rudas
dancers are Australian entertainers in
world-class.
V V V
Mr. Charles Laseron, author and
scientist, gave a provocative talk on
“Science as Literature” at the Royal
Empire Society’s monthly literary
luncheon this week. “Creative writing,”
he said, “does not exist. You can’t make
something from nothing,” and pointed
out that Dickens and Darwin used exactly
the same methods but with different
material, Dickens having collected infor-
mation about people and Darwin about
animals and plants. Dr. Colin Roderick,
in returning a vote of thanks, really got
into a debate which could have gone on
and on but that the school-bell (or its
equivalent) rang.
☆ ☆ ☆
The model of the Opera House is on
show in the vestibule of the Town Hall.
(Why is it a Town Hall, by the way?
Why not a City Hall?) The crowds,
women predominating, who went along
to hear Joan Hammond’s concert on
Saturday afternoon clustered round the
model before going into the hall, but as
they came out their whole interest and
talk was of the beautiful singing they
had heard. Joan Hammond looked very
handsome in a sheath-dress of jewel-green
shot with gold, panels of plain green faille
floating from the shoulders.
# V
The Guys and Dolls Committee, a
group of bright young things who work
for the Crippled Children's Society, are
arranging a particularly attractive party
for August 30. It is to be held at the
historic old house St. Malo at Hunters
Hill. Mulled-wine and roasted-chestnuts
are promised, while for entertainment
there will be dancing on the patio, and a
programme of operetta numbers by the
Hubert Evans group.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF ~NEW SOUTH
WALES. —In Divobce.
TO BETTY NELL CHADWICK late of 35 Station
Street Wickham in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that LESLIE WILLIAM CHADWICK
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2860 of 11155
on the ground of desertion' without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street- Sydney
by 18th October 11157 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from P. J. GOLDEN,
Solicitor. of 126 Phillip Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
MELBOURNE
As a prelude to Education Week
Lieut.-Governor Sir Edmund Herring and
Lady Herring gave a late-afternoon party
at Government House. Among the 280
guests were representatives of the Uni-
versity and heads of schools and colleges.
Pink blossom and daffodils decorated the
State drawing-room, where guests were
received.
Lady Herring chose a slim frock of
black Italian-satin highlighted by a
large French-rose set on one shoulder.
Her daughter Margaret wore a navy-and-
white-spotted Jacqmar-silk frock cut on
semi-sheath lines.
Among the guests were U.K. High
Commissioner Lord Carrington and Lady
Carrington (her frock of chartreuse
silk-faille worn with a claw-cap in
forest-green); the Premier and Mrs. Bolte
(she wearing a black taffeta frock which
featured a full harem-skirt); Sir Charles
and Lady Lowe ; University Vice-
Chancellor Sir George Paton and Lady
Paton ; Mrs. Arthur Dean ; Director of
Education Major-General A. H. Ramsay
and Mrs. Ramsay ; Professor and Mrs.
W. H. Frederick; Master of Queen’s
College Dr. Raynor Johnson and his
wife ; Headmaster of Geelong Grammar
Dr. J. R. Darling and Mrs. Darling;
Headmaster of Melbourne Grammar Mr.
B. W. Hone and Mrs. Hone ; Miss Myra
Roper (principal of the University
Women’s College); and Miss Mary
Bagnall (principal of Janet Clarke Hall).
* * *
There were three fashion-shows last
week, the first a preview of the pageant
which the Societe Franqaise des Textiles
will present in aid of the Royal Children’s
Hospital. Parades will be at the Town
Hall on September 2, 3 and 4, and mem-
bers of the society have come from
France for the occasion. In the preview
leading French cotton-firms were repre-
sented in more than 70 day- and evening-
gowns made by local manufacturers.
Cotton, so long the Cinderella of fabrics,
was seen in an amazing variety ; it looked
like silk, satin, chiffon, brocades and even
wool. One lovely theatre- or dinner-
ensemble was made in white French pique
threaded with gold lurex. The frock was
cut on Empire-lines and featured a
balloon-skirt. With it went a coat on the
new pyramid-line, made of the frock
material and lined with emerald-green
silk trimmed with gold braid. A proofed
and crease-resistant velveteen in a frock
and in a short jacket trimmed with match-
ing satin was attractive.
The second show, at George’s, indicated
the feeling for chiffon, paraded in
tailored and pleated day-frocks and
glamorous cocktail- and evening-gowns.
With the vogue for the loose, open jacket,
the chiffon blouse is more popular than
the former shirt-blouse. Jackets as well as
coats are well in the fashion-picture.
Small fine checks and the large block-
checks were features.
In spite of the vogue for man-made
fibres, the soft, lovely pure silks are back
in full strength. Famous designer
Madame Carven has arranged to have
her designs reproduced in Australia, and
she has chosen beautiful, glowing flower-
prints on pure-silk taffetas and chiffons
to demonstrate her skill for draping and
design. Colors range from light navy to
palest blue; soft tea-green and pussy-
willow-green ; the flaxen tones, through
to light brown and light grey and
Quaker-grey ; not forgetting the lovely
mauves, through to Parma-violet.
The fashions which George’s presented
were seen at a champagne and chicken-
sandwich party held at the Royal College
of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists,
proceeds going to the Royal Women’s
Hospital. Miss Kathleen Syme, the
hospital’s president, received the guests ;
her smart black suit was worn with a
geranium-red velvet hat and sable stole.
Members of the hospital’s board of
management present included Mrs.
Oswald Bowden and Mrs. Arthur Prytz.
Mrs. G. B. Bearham (president of the
ball-committee) and helpers worked hard
for the function’s success. Also noted at
the party were her husband, Dr. Bearham,
Dr. and Mrs. John Grantley Shelton,
Dr. and Mrs. Desmond Hollywood, Dr.
and Mrs. Harold Hattam, Mr. and Mrs.
W. Napier, Dr. and Mrs. Harry Fried-
man and Mrs. B. Baragwanath.
Dame Sybil Thorndike, returning here
for the third time, will appear, with her
husband, Sir Lewis Casson, and grand-
daughter, Jane Casson, in “The Chalk
Garden" she plays the role of the
eccentric dowager Mrs. St. Maugham, a
part played in New York by Gladys
Cooper and in London by Dame Edith
Evans. To keep her mind alert Dame
Sybil reads the New Testament in Greek
every morning before breakfast, with
brisk walks to keep fit.
To Dame Sybil Thorndike was
entrusted the drawing of a monster raffle
which was organised, in conjunction with
a card-party, by the Lady Mayoress (Lady
Selleck) and a large committee. This
took place before afternoon-tea in Lady
Selleck’s private reception-room at the
Town Hall. Total proceeds were £2700,
which will go to the Lord Mayor’s Fund
for Metropolitan Hospitals and Charities,
Lady Selleck wore a navy wool frock
which had a pleated hemline and a sash
of navy-and-white-spotted silk ; her small
toque was in soft off-white satin. A pine-
green wool frock and jacket were worn
by Dame Sybil with a melusine hat in the
same toning. Mrs. Henry Bolte, wife of
the Premier, was accompanied by 19-yec.r-
-old Gillian Gaylard, of Tatura, who had
just been crowned Queen of the Goulburn
Valley. Gillian and her mother were the
guests of the Premier and Mrs. Bolte for
the day. Others present were Lady Snow,
Mrs. Maurice Nathan, Mrs. John Inkster,
Mrs. L. J. Dooling, Mrs. Ray Buxton,
Mrs. Alfred Fowler, Mrs. Norman Price
and Mrs. E. K. Smart.
* * *
Paul Rogers, his wife Rosalind
Boxall, and Zoe Caldwell, all of the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust’s company
now playing in this city, were guests-of-
honor at the luncheon given for them at
Ciro’s by the English Speaking Union.
They were welcomed by Mrs. W. J.
Wark (who topped a black suit with a
wine-red cloche) and Mrs. William
Banks (her mist-blue suit worn with a
blue-and-white-striped pixie-cap).
Major-General Sir Kingsley Norris,
who presided, was accompanied by Lady
Norris, whose forget-me-not blue wool
suit was worn with a navy toque. A suit
of black wool trimmed with velvet was
worn by Miss Boxall with a white
melusine basin-cloche trimmed with black
velvet. Those at the official table included
Lady Lowe, Lady Davidson, Lady
Dixon and Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Dietrich.
At this luncheon winners of the E.S.U.
Victorian travel-scholarships were fare-
welled—Miss Marjorie Ross scheduled
for London, Mr. Russell Sim for the
U.S. Others at the luncheon were Mrs.
James Alston, Mrs. Adrian Nelken and
Mrs. Currie Johnson.
V sj. V
Members of the Show Jumping Club
met over cocktails at the Oriental Hotel
to discuss plans for their first function,
which is to be a cabaret-ball at the St.
Kilda Palais on August 26. The social-
committee is headed by chairman Mrs.
T. C. King; Lady Disney is a committee-
member, and others are Mrs. David
Wood, of Berwick, Mrs. Colin Kelly, of
Caramut (who will be ticket-secretary for
the Western District), Susan Faull,
Gwenda Beveridge, Susan Mitchell,
Trevor King, Geoff Isherwood and Tony
Graham. Mrs. M. G. Jefferson
(WU 6554) and Anna Robertson
(XW2715) are also ticket-secretaries.
Tickets, which are £4 double, include
casual refreshment, as well as a good
supper and floor-show.


•ell it, and get the best price
he could for it.
The private owner seemed to
me to be the better proposition.
There was every chance that he
had bought the car when
new, had looked after it as his
own personal property, had
not overdriven it, and was keen
to make a satisfactory sale from
the buyer’s viewpoint as well as
his own, to avoid the prospect
of future unpleasantness.
But when I began to read
the advertisements of the
private sellers I realised that
buying the ideal car from that
source had its own little diffi-
culties. They seldom gave the
price of the vehicle; only
rarely did an advert, show a
phone-number, and almost
invariably they lived a long
way from my home.
I soon discovered that most
of them were just as keen to
get top prices as was the
average dealer. Without a
conveyance to run all over the
country in the hope that I
might find my ideal car it
seemed I had but one course
open to me: to embark on my
pilgrimage via the wide-open
gate of the poor-man’s market
the yard of the used-car
dealer.
Since the war and early post-
war years, with their price-
control and"! i mi ted output of
new cars, used-car dealers have
come into their own. I never
quite realised how common
they were until 1 developed my
personal interest in their trade.
In one Saturday morning—the
only spare time available to the
average prospective used-car
buyer—it is not possible to call
on half of them. Even with a
car to get round in it would
still be impossible.
To try to bring some form
of system into my approach I
decided to start on the very
fringe of town, work through
the heart of it and out the
other side, concentrating, on my
first Saturday-morning search,
on the two main streets where
the dealers lived.
*TpHE first yard, surrounded
with a high, wire-mesh
fence, and looking more like a
prison-compound than a.place
of business, belonged to the
agent of the car I was trying to
buy.
Here they did not buy used
cars simply to sell again. They
took them only as trade-ins on
new vehicles. As agents they
had a good reputation, which
I reckoned it would be worth
their while trying to keep. They
also had a yardful of used
cars which I reckoned it would
be worth their while getting
rid of.
As I entered the premises one
of a crowd of salesmen
grouped together m the centre
of the yard came to meet me.
He was neatly dressed,
courteous, friendly.
Later I felt I grew to know
these salesmen. In a way they
all seemed to be of a type —-
at least those of the more
respectable firms.
They were invariably of neat
appearance, co-operative, and
apparently keen to help. I
found no smart alecks among
them. They were all willing
to talk, and not keen to walk-
out on me once they saw they
could get nothing from me.
They explained points about
cars. They treated me as a
fellow human-being with a
problem, rather than as an
ignoramus who knew nothing
about something, for which he
was willing to pay-out any-
thing up to £6OO.
It was, of course, to a certain
extent, part of the training in
sales - psychology, something
essential in the competitive
field from which they earned
their living. But certain basic
qualities in the salesman are
still essential before he can be
built-up to be the pleasant,
co-operative type so common in
the car-houses of today.
Top ROM that first port of call
I began my trek round and
through the city, from yard to
yard, from salesman to sales-
man, approaching each with a
smile and a nod, invariably
returned, and leaving always
with a growing sense of dis-
appointment.
I was surprised to find 'that
usually, when they did not have
the car I wanted, they did not
try to press one of another
make on tq me. One or two
of them did, but that was all.
One man was very keen to
sell me what he called a seven-
year-old car, but which looked
as though it was eleven or
twelve years old. Perhaps it
was just prematurely aged, like
a bald-headed man. He told
me I could take it as it was for
£490, or if I liked he’d get his
mechanic on to it and when
he'd fixed it to make it go, I
could take it for £5lO. I
decided I’d prefer not to take it
either way.
That yard, incidentally, was
full of real “bombs.” Some of
them are like that. Some have
only good cars, comparatively
recent models, others have an
assortment of each, while one
certain class, possibly hindered
by finance, stick severely to the
“bomb” category, anything
between the 1928 and 1940
models, which rattle and vibrate
and bounce and cost a fortune
in repairs, but still seem to
find buyers.
One dealer was delightfully
frank. When he saw me out-
side his depot inspecting his list
of Saturday-morning specials
he came over towards me with
a big friendly grin all over his
face. When I told him my
mission, to purchase a certain
car for something between £5OO
and £6OO, he grinned more
widely still and said, in quite
a friendly, fatherly tone, “I
don’t sell junk, boy. What
do you want something with
all the guts worn out of
it for? I’ve got good _
cars.”
He was what you might call
a down-to-earth motor-sales-
man, a little less polished than
those in the bigger houses,
perhaps, but one who really
belonged in the game, a man
who on the outside was free
and easy, friendly and co-
operative, but obviously with
a shrewd head and a sense of
judgment that could hold a
good business together against
opposition as tight as you’d
find in any game.
I must have called on 15
used-car dealers on that one
Saturday morning. On the way
home I got off the bus and
called at one more; I had
heard through the trade that
he had a car similar to what
I was seeking.
He showed me the car,
invited me to drive it—one of
the first things the salesman
does—and offered in the same
breath to take it to my home
and show my wife that same
afternoon.
We never quite got to the
stage of driving it. There were
a few little things wrong with
the car in any case, but the
major trouble was that it was
painted bottle-green, and
bottle-green is the one color my
wife has never been able to
stand.
concluded my first
Saturday morning round
the trade. It had been an
illuminating tour, in which I’d
had refreshing conversations
with quite a number of interest-
ing people, even if I’d achieved
nothing towards a practical
solution.
Four of the dealers on whom
I called took my name and
phone-number. They were all
quite confident they could get
me the car I wanted within a
week or two. It was just a
matter of being patient.
Subsequently one of them
did ring me, about four weeks
later, but by that time I had a
prospect, whose history. I knew,
temporarily lined-up, and I
declined his offer. From the
three others I heard nothing
further. Possibly they are still
conscientiously trying to get the
right car for me.
The first car to really appeal
I found right at the beginning
of my second tour of inspec-
tion. There were two cars of
the type and price in the yard,
and both seemed reasonable.
The salesman resembled those
I had met previously, friendly,
easy of manner, keen to help.
Right from the beginning he
KING OF THE CASTLE
Hidden away In the wilga-tree
is a prickly person called Deereeree,
King of the Castle, a glittering mound
of leaves in the moonlight
and a lit space around.
Birds that mimic the feudal state
must take it further and feel irate
when from trees diminished in size
by tricks of perspective
come counterclaims and challenges.
Bird calls to bird. They whistle and wait
for the call to return. Faintly, “I’m here, mate!”
And some so far not a thing is seen
of the trees where they chirrup.
And the moon as big as it’s ever been.
N.Z.
W. Hart-Smith.


Missing Friend
TO GEOROE HENRY , STOCKWELL
formerly of Barellan, New ■ South
Wales but now of parts unknown.—
TAKE NOTICE (hat your wife CLAIRE
EUGENIE STOCKWELL has commenced
divorce proceedings against you on the
ground of desertion during three years
and upwards Unless you enter an
appearance in the Office of the Prothonc-
tarv of the Supreme Court at Melbourne
in the State of Victoria on or before
the 14th day of September 1957 the suit
maf' proceed in your absence and you
mav be ordered to pav costs.—ABBOTT
STILLMAN & WILSON, 422 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my . cheque/money-order
for. .. .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—-
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign .... i6B/«/«
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.t Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
let me take over. He did not
go out of his way to praise
either car. He showed me the
cars, invited me to drive them,
and let me make up my own
mind about them.
I quickly passed over the
first vehicle. It was probably
all right as used cars go, but it
made a lot of noise when it
started, and I don't like noise.
I was impressed by the
second car immediately. It had
been recently painted and
didn’t show a scratch. It had
good leather seat-covers. All
tyres showed good treads, even
the spare. When I pressed the
starter, I could hardly hear the
motor running. With me driv-
ing, it pulled up a formidable
hill in top without any effort.
Everything ticked brakes,
lights, gears, windows.
I asked the salesman if he
would be prepared to let me
have the car examined by the
local motoring authority. He
wasn't too happy about that.
He asked me if I had a
mechanic I could get round to
have a look at it.
“That crowd are usually
booked up a few days ahead,”
he said. “There’s always the
chance you might lose a
sale . .
Finally he came round, and
I made an appointment for
three days later to have the
experts go over the car. I paid
£lO deposit subject to their
report.
Three days later I got the
report. Then I had the true
picture revealed to me —the
picture of an attractive vehicle
capable of a good demonstra-
tion performance, now stripped
naked before me. bared of all
its artificial trimmings and
glamor.
The car, they told me, had
been in what had obviously
been a bad smash. The floor-
section, the foundation of the
car, had been cracked and not
completely repaired, and could
prove dangerous. On the hoist,
panel-repair marks were in
evidence practically every-
where.
There were other faults. Un-
doubtedly a number of them
could not be said to be incon-
sistent with the condition one
must expect in a used car, but
they were sufficiently disturbing
to take away any desire I had
had to purchase the vehicle.
I was told that before long
the car would need a top over-
haul and piston-rings ; it needed
decarbonising, and valves
needed reconditioning; a
radiator-pipe was leaking;
several shackles needed renew-
ing ; one wheel was badly
buckled ; four tyres were re-
grooved : and (just to rub it in
a bit) one of them had a nail
in it. Spark-plugs and generator
needed cleaning.
No one expects to get a new
car when he goes to buy a used
one. Several of the dealers told
me that. 1 had expected to be
told that there were a number
of minor defects in the car.
But the whole lot added
together created a disturbing
picture. The regrooving of the
tyres —i.e., the cutting of new
treads into a tyre that has had
the treads worn off it—was
something I could not forgive.
Not only was I turned
against buying the car that had
been reported upon, but all
used cars seemed suddenly to
develop sinister possibilities for
me. The examination had cost
me three-guineas, but I think
it might have saved me any-
thing up to £lOO.
TT BEGAN to wander round
the dealers and watch the
ads. again.
It was almost another month
before I got the car I wanted.
By that time I was thoroughly
fed-up with used cars and
dealers and anything even
remotely connected with the
trade.
My car arrived at the sale-
yards on the same morning
that I arrived there. It was
brought by a man who wanted
to trade it in on a car he
was keen to buy, something in
a higher class-range than what
I was chasing. The firm, which
was keen to sell him the car
he wanted and equally keen to
make it possible for him by
disposing of his old car for
him, was the one 1 had first
called on. With their policy
of only taking trade-ins on
new cars, they badly needed a
third party to complete the
contract.
The car was dusty and dirty,
but it had about it, beneath the
superficial dust and dirt that it
had obviously gathered over the
last few days, something clean
and solid and honest-looking.
Round it went for examination
to the same experts I’d pre-
viously employed. Back came
the report: “A well-looked-
after car, with a few minor
defects [detailed] that £lO will
put right....”
Since then, after two months’
abundant use, I’ve had no
reason to criticise my purchase,
Other reports by people who
ought to know have confirmed
the opinion of the initial
examiner,
But, just the same, next time
I buy a car, I’d like it to be
a new one. That way it would
be a little bit easier on the
nerves.
“It’s a lovely place; small,
perhaps, but convenient!
You’ve no idea!”
“I must say you’re a surprise-
packet,” I said.
She laughed out loud and
winked at me. “Like a cuppa?
Mr. Flynn, dear, knock up a
; . „ Tt-l 1
cuppa tea, do. Then lower-
mg ner voice again, Ask him
to play tor you, after, love. He
plays beautiful, but he does like
an audience.
So after we’d had our tea,
I brought up the subject of
music, and the old bloke
rooted around among the
rubbish and fetched up an
old mouth-organ with half the
reeds broken. He was game,
though, I'll say that for him,
and after he'd worked up a bit
of speed, you hardly noticed
the missing bits. He played, and
Mum hummed, and everybody
had a great time, till all of a
sudden I remembered I was
supposed to get picked up at
the creek at low tide. '
“Here,” I said, “this is all
very nice, but it’s time'l was
off. Wee Boy Barclay don’t
wait for nobody, and if I’m
not at Croker when the dinghy
puts in, I get left.”
“Well,” wheezed the old
chap, all out of breath with his
Paying, its a good fast clip
y° u have to be going at, to
get there before the nde turns
Good-bye, lad” beamed
M -SoViy you can’t stay
, 0 dinner. Mr. Flvnn makes a
lovely stew You ’re really miss-
ing some thing.”
“Can’t be helped. Ta-ta for
now.”
And off I rushed. I
was halfway to Croker Creek
when something suddenly
struck me and I stopped in my
tracks, with my mouth open,
jD come all that Way to ask
-1 Mum a question that had
been nagging me for years, and,
w hat with one thing and
another, I’d forgotten to ask.
So I just clicked my tongue like
a n old lady who’s just spilled
the sugar, and went on walk-
j n g.
I’d probably never find out,
now, what she did with my
good hat.


trip, using a phrase which must seem
rather curious to Australians —“the
American occupation”:—
For myself I thought that the
American occupation—or, rather,
the reason for it —had not only
changed Queensland but all Aus-
tralia’s thought and policy.
A younger man, who had fought
in the Australian forces in the
Middle East, told me, “They say
about two million American Service-
men passed through here during the
war. Never mind what they tell you
anywhere else —we face America on
this side, and Queenslanders saw
their power at first hand. The great
Pacific battles were fought and won
from our ports, battles that saved
us, but have you ever heard of
them in Britain? There’s a bond
between us and the Americans, and
don’t you forget it.”
“But we were fighting to save
ourselves,” I defended. “If Britain
had gone down who would have
survived?”
“That’s what Churchill said!”
was the heated reply. “He was
going to liberate us later —after the
Japs had taken us. And ever since
the end of the war England seems
to have regarded us as expendable
-—throwing us into the arms of the
US.”
A lot. of Australians talk in this
aggrieved way.
And, of course, a lot of Englishmen
talk in Mr. Taylor’s way . . . but
however he would prefer Australians
to act, it is not as Dr. Evatt would.
He saw the Doc. addressing a meeting,
and having breakfast at his hotel: —-
~..I was able to read some of
the Doctor’s views in the newspaper
next morning while he himself
steadily and expressionlessly worked
his way up through breakfast in a
far corner of the room. Not one
head was raised in interest as he
left the r00m... .Imagine Mr.
Aneurin Bevan in the leading hotel
of Manchester or Birmingham,
surrounded by the cohorts of
business, arousing so little emotion
.... Perhaps this is part of the
treatment for keeping politicians
down to life-size.
What intrigued me about Doctor
Evatt’s policy was not so much his
economic panaceas (after all, he
did not invent the strategy of court-
ing the electors with fair promises)
but his assessment of the inter-
national situation. It seemed to me
that his policies would leave Aus-
tralia bereft of allies and open to
the catastrophic results of any
cataclysm in Asia.
So although there is plenty of
jollying-along of Australian industry
and accomplishment in these pages,
you can hardly say that Mr. Taylor is
mealy-mouthed when it comes to a
showdown.
wants to know how many people buy
the paper, not how many read a
particular page, or how many read the
advertisements on that page, or how
many people, having read the advertise-
ment, then go away and buy what is
advertised. It is a fallacious system,
but it is in general use.
In the cruel world of commercial
radio the advertiser wants to know not
how many people listen to the station
at odd times, but how many listen to
the session that is advertising his
products. This leads to all kinds of
complications; and, Mackay suggests,
to the most harrowing injustices.
How, in the first place, do you
discover how many people do listen to
any particular session?
There are, says Mackay, five
methods.
There is the telephone system. You
ring people up and ask them if they
happen to be listening to Bob Dyer,
Jack Davey. “Blue Hills” or “Purple
Patches.” You can also, most unkindly,
ask them if they know the name of the
advertiser sponsoring the session. If
they do not rudely tell you to mind
your own business, or retort that they
are not listening to any station because
they are fed-up with quizzes in which
perfect strangers keep winning Morris
Minors, you may get a fair indication
of the relative popularity of the session
among telephone-subscribers; but, says
Mackay, you learn nothing about “the
large section of the audience who do
not own a telephone.”
Then there is the personal interview.
You knock at people’s doors and ask
them all about their habits. Great care
is necessary in framing questions, says
Mackay, to avoid bias in the answers.
There is the diary method. “Repre-
sentative samples” of listeners in various
suburbs agree to list family listening
over a given period. This seems
a good method provided people
“conscientiously maintain records for
each period of listening”; and provided
families are careful what they put into
their diaries.
There is the mechanical recorder, a
fearful device used in the United
States which comprises an instrument
installed inside the receiving-set which
automatically records the time and
station to which the set is tuned. This
seems at first glance as efficient as the
Gestapo; but, alas, “The cost of such
a survey in Australia would be pro-
hibitive. Also, it would not provide
any information as to the number of
people who may be listening on one
receiver.”
Finally, there is the mail-survey. You
judge the popularity of the session on
the amount of fanmail that arrives.
Fanmail is, of course, very dear to
actors; but it proves nothing. “No one
can determine the proportion of
listeners who write fanmail.”
The methods most favored in Aus-
tralia, says Mackay, are the personal
interview and the diary.
But when, by one or the other of
these devices, you have found the
“rating” of a session, you have still
not got the answer. Who knows
whether the listeners are going to buy
the product?:—
There have been countless cases
in Australia where a programme has
had a comparatively low rating but
has sold the product to the satisfac-
tion of the client. This is because
the audience may be composed of
potential buyers of the product
advertised.... Many imagine that
the programme that attracts the
greatest audience is the best pro-
gramme from a sales point of view.
There is no evidence to justify this
assumption.
It is all very difficult, and it is a
relief to come upon the lordly attitude
of the A.8.C., as outlined by its chair-
man in 1946, that it must not “merely
pursue fleeting indications of public
approval.” But even the A.B.C. since
then has been inclined to pay some
attention to surveys, says Mackay, “for
Radio in Australia
The problems of commercial radio-
advertising are hardly a literary subject,
but they are discussed with such
profound distress in lan K. Mackay’s
Broadcasting in Australia (Melbourne
University Press) as to give a touch
of drama to what is otherwise a some-
what frigid survey.
Newspaper - advertising, Mackay
points out, is allotted simply on the
basis of circulation: the advertiser
BOOMERANG
Behold! wood into bird and bird to
wood again,
a brown-winged bird from the hand
of a brown man.
Elbow of wood from flexed elbow of
bone
to a swift hawk has amazingly grown
that mounts the sky, sun in its wings,
up, up, over the far tree fluttering
where it turns as if seized with doubt
in the air.
Looks back down to the man carved
there
and, afraid of the gift of sudden blood,
beats back to his hand and melts once
more to wood.
N.Z.
W. Hart-Smith.


A gripping story of love and war
CANTON AIRLIFT
Andrew Geer
This thrilling book by the author of THE SEA CHASE (150,000 sold) concerns
the operation of a private airline during the encirclement of Canton by the
Red Armies. The story is told against an authentic background of p.oueer
commercial flying and it never has a dull moment.
Ready
Now
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
From all
Booksellers
THIS IS AUSTRALIA
edited by Oswald Ziegler
Here is an entirely new and up-to-date edition of THIS IS AUSTRALIA, a comprehensive
volume giving an all-round picture of the country and her people. Throughout the book
a running story, written in an easy and entertaining style, covers the subject of each chapter.
Here is an all-encompassing survey of Australia in the past, in the present, and her possibilities
for the future.
More than 700 magnificent illustrations and numerous colour photographs show Australia
before the coming of the white man to the Australians of today, as they are at work and at play.
50/- (post 2/3)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-9 S Castlereagh Street, Sydney
THE
JYSTANDER
RANDOLPH STOW
Widely praised for his first novel, A HAUNTED LAND
{'‘mature,” “poetic,” “evocative,” “graphic” and “promis-
ing” were words that kept cropping up), this young
Geraldton author makes a notable step forward in this
outstanding new book. “ Considerable intensity and force
.. . his people have vitality” — The Times. “Excellent” —
Evening Standard. “Only a poet, and one full of compas-
sion, could have developed this theme as Mr. Stow has
done” —ELIZABETH BOWEN (Tatler).
(Note : This author’s first volume of poetry will be appear-
ing later in the year under the title ACT ONE.) Price, 17s.
MACDONALD
Available from all Booksellers
it is realised that the A.8.C., although
it must always be sensitive to the needs
of listeners, must also exercise with
discretion its obligations to lead and
improve standards generally.”
The author is production-manager of
the Macquarie Network. He gives a
complete and compact survey of Aus-
tralian broadcasting—the A.B.C. as
well as the commercial stations —
briefly relating its history and outlining,
with guarded criticism, its development
in the various features of politics,
music, drama, sport, children’s sessions
and so on. The general reader will
find the book too often lacking in
precise and colorful detail—it reads
like an official report, or an academic
thesis —but it is a useful piece of work
and doubtless will be studied with
interest in the radio world.
Reviewed Briefly
A Difference in Death: Dorm
Russell (Faber). A judge tells the story
of the trial in England of an American
for the murder of a foreign film-
actress. It is a day-by-day account of
the evidence as the judge would hear
it. and as the author signs it at the
end “Easter Vacation. Easter Term,
1956.” it is presumably by a lawyer.
Anyway, when the case has run the
gamut of the actress’s war-time
troubles and the blood found on the
flowers in the American’s room there
is a trick-denouement; altogether
quite a capable job.
* * * *
My Turn Next: Roman Proske
(Museum). Animal-trainer and -tamer
all over Europe, in Africa and
America, Mr. Proske begins with the
story of how Solliothi went on in
Moscow the night after a lion, in its
death-agony from having its neck
bitten through by a tiger during the
performance, had tom off Solliothi’s
scalp. He goes on to how Schneider,
inside the cage, used to crown his act
by throwing to the lions meat which
was handed to him from outside the
cage. Another story is of how Mr.
Proske himself used a broom to sweep
eight full-grown tigers back into a cage
from which they had escaped; and yet
another of how a tigress jumped him
from behind and bit through the calves
of both his legs.
* * * ♦
Barentha Rock: Stanley Rogers
(Allen). This begins with a discussion
by sea-captains of a rock-island in the
Atlantic, some say mythical, others say
subsided. Then the true story begins
of how the Scottish sailing-ship Loch
Earn ploughs through the French liner
Ville du Havre in 1873 at or about
that very place where the fabulous
island was marked on a chart. The
liner goes to the bottom with 200
passengers. The rest of the passengers
are taken aboard the Loch Earn, but,
the Scottish ship being in a bad way,
are transferred to the American
sailing - ship Trimountain, whose
Captain Urquhart has been shown in
the prologue arguing about the lost
island. Later the rest of the passengers
and crew of the Loch Earn abandoned
ship for the American sailing-ship
British Queen. Mysterious rock or no
mysterious rock, it makes a fine story
of the hazards of sea-voyages in those
days; and Mr. Rogers makes sure you
miss none of it by telling it over and
over from the viewpoints of those in
each ship


OST POWERFUL LOCOMOTIVES
AUSTRALIA ARE EQUIPPED WITH
m
3*2
mi
- ;
«$*
•v':
SSBS
S
mf
.
The Unit oft €neAxw
CAR, TRUCK, TRACTOR, RADIO, LAUNCH, MOTORCYCLE,
EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT AND HOME LIGHTING
★ A BANK OF 18 LEAD ACID TYPE BATTERIES IS MANUFACTURED AND SUPPLIED
~ 4sir" .
§is§ imm
ij.i&iij j jjilij
■ \ &■; am- ip? imm
3 wli 110|
< ; WJ
mm lmm
22*
&
.
r~
, 1 , - 1
iiSii
, i je
■■ .~m ~a^±2i
< *■' Jri&:
m
***
imm
s
a
jsS*?
i :V_yrf
mwj jt&fW!
- ■
f —-rr i :
~Ji mil.
■ ■■■ "TJL-
; .a
.• *'•••'•_
«•-' v f '•.'<' - . ? • *•■••• • •'■• - ,\
BY ERG BATTERIES TO THE NEW SOUTH
WALES RAILWAYS FOR EACH OF THEIR
46 CLASS ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES
Distributors:
ERG BATTERIES Pty. Ltd., I 56 Goulburn St., Sydney.
KEEP BROS, and WOOD Pty. Ltd., 200 Latrobe St.,
Melbourno.
ERG BATTERIES Pty. Ltd., 32 Barry Brisbane.
DAVID L. PRESCOTT, 91-95 Flinders St., Adelaide.
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, 14 Cameron St., Launceston,
rw i ii ■■■i.t*.. i • i i!■ .
J. R. ROE and Company, Darwin.
