

/
mo m
sepp e -
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
"A Good Job, Y’r Grace” —page i t
Wednesday, October 2, 1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Guildford’s Great Cathedral
Grows Apace
! 11.1)1-ORD, standing on a hill overlooking the
valley of the Riser YVey,, is a .thriving market
town which draws its prosperity from the sur-
rounding agricultural country. Its name is of
Saxon origin and from earliest times until 1760
the Riser YVey svas' crossed by a ford at this
point. Ihe town is also a busy commercial and
shopping centre and, in recent years, numerous
light industries base beeii established in the
vicinity.
It was not until 1927, however, that Guildford
became a cathedral town. In that year Winchester
Diocese svas found to be too large for administra-
tion as one unit and it svas therefore divided
into three —W inchester, Portsmouth and Guildford.
The modern cathedral, which is only the third
entirely new Anglican Cathedral to be built in
England since the Reformation, stands on Stag
Hill to the west of the town. The foundation
stone was laid by the Archbishop of Canterbury
in |uls, 1936. The foundations were laid on 778"
reinforced concrete piles driven down some fifty
feet into the ground. The last pile svas driven
by the late Queen Mary in April, 1937. The
architect of this imposing, but as yet unfinished,
building is Mr. Edward Maufe, A.R.A., svhose
design svas chosen in open competition. Construc-
tion work was interrupted during the years of the
Second YY'orld War, but the chancel has been
finished in essentials, with the chapels and vestries
on either side, and regular services are held there.
W'hen completed this great modern cathedral will
seat about 2000. Its length will be 365 feet and
the height of its lower, 157 feet.
It was in Guildford that Lewis Carroll, writer
of “Alice in Wonderland” and “Through the
Looking Class,” died in 1898.
No. 369: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


STORY WRITING &
FREELANCE JOURNALISM!
LEARN AT HOME
. . . and EARN in your SPARE TIME
There is a big demand for well-written
work. Read these brief extracts—open for
inspection on our tiles—from the letters
of STOTT-Students:—
“My acceptances in the ‘Border Morning Mail ’
earned me approximately 4 50.”
“My tally of 65 contributions is not bad for
one 60 years old.”
“1 consider your Literary Course the most
valuable thing 1 have ever invested in.”
“Some weeks I have had as many as five
xcceptances in ‘The Bulletin.’ ”
“Since Lesson 6 1 have had quite a steady
flow o) cheques.”
“My writing is a fascinating hobby and brings
in quite acceptable cash.”
lOfl Russell .st., Melbourne: Hy l«rtleiciis:n jjt.,
Sidney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 arenfeii
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Berth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON -
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without anv obii
Ration, your Prospectus, and lull particulars oi
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 1957) AGE
ROOK lIUNTEIt, Bo* 2671, 0.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
BACK TO BIN BIN
Back to 800 l 800 l is the sixth and
final volume of the collected edition
of the novels of Brent of Bin Bin
which Angus and Robertson began in
1950 with “Prelude to Waking”: a
gallant and most useful venture in
publishing since it has displayed to
us fully and openly the achievement of
a writer previously as mysterious as
she was challenging. One says “she”
because obviously Miles Franklin was
largely, if not wholly, responsible for
them.
Like “Prelude to Waking” and
“Gentlemen at Gyang Gyang,” “Back
to 800 l Bool” is one of the lighter,
the softer novels of the series: soft
because it has no firm structure of
character and dramatic movement.
It has the same faults of style as
the previous novels, wobbling uncer-
tainly from the forced Australianism
of “Sir Oswald had skipped quite nifty
social engagements in favor of dinner
with Freda” to the private jargon of
“Instantaneous illiquation removed all
pestiferations till she should know who
was the young man,” to the gush of
“Must it elude him always, suggesting
deep, glad things, or anon threnodic
wistfulnesses, echoes of dead songs
that ere time began have lost their
singers?”
And it has the same fault of
characterisation as the previous novels,
that the author’s crusading fervor
against sex prevents her seeing any
of her people clearly, so that they
are never wholly credible and the
actions in which they are involved are
essentially meaningless.
If you cannot believe that Major-
General Sir Oswald Mazere-Poole in
this novel would fall in love with and
pursue for months the “saucy” but
sexless Freda and that the lusty prima-
donna Austra would pursue and marry
the pallid poet Dick Mazere (who
faints at the “obumbrant danger”
when she makes a pass at him) —and
really it is impossible to believe a word
of it —then the whole story moves
unreally towards nothing.
Essentially it is a winding-up novel:
to take the descendants of the pioneers
back to their homesteads for a “back
to 800 l 800 l week” and for a last look
at the Monaro; to assert that out of
these pioneer families will flower a
great Australian culture (Dick is a
poet; Austra a world-famous singer;
Bernice Gaylord—never a credible
figure—is a painter; and even Bernice’s
bearded hillman Peter Poole turns out
to be a wood-carver “something like a
cross between Grinling Gibbons and
Ruth Bannister”); and finally, after a
great deal of talk about pacifism,
feminism. Christian Science, the politics
of the day and the future of Australia,
to ridicule “the man of Mars unbuckled
before Venus” and. in the grand
pattern of the whole series, once more
to drown young love in the rivers of
the Monaro ... a young pianist this
time, repeating the dealh of Emily
Mazere years before.
The novel must be conceded some
merit as the culmination of a grand
design. Readers who have closely
followed the series may be interested
in following the fortunes of the various
families and the triumphant return of
the celebrities to the wild hills where
it all began. And. if the families get
confusing and the return seems con-
trived, there remain some very good
strokes: the picture of a nagging house-
wife, Blanche, who is not involved in
distorting love-affairs; the robustness,
despite the distortion, of the major-
general and of Austra . . . who. though
the author denies it, is obviously
modelled to some extent on Melba. In
her realistic appearances, when she is
not involved in absurdities, Austra,
the “splendid hippopotamus,” is a
fascinating figure and (surely because
she was drawn from life) by far the
most convincing of the various artists
whom the novelist has attempted to
portray.
But, as a whole, the novel is far too
erratic and propagandist to succeed,
and it does nothing to alter this
reviewer’s opinion that, full of ardor
and goodwill as are the Brent of Bin
Bin novels as a whole, touchingly
fervent in their patriotism, often capti-
vating in their pictures of Monaro
scenery and the legendary outback life
—richly evocative of the past in “Up
the Country”; rising to dramatic force
in the story of the thwarted love of
Ronald Dice and Aileen Stanton when
the child is lost in “Ten Creeks Run”
—essentially everything Miles Franklin
had to say (the beauty of the Monaro;
the impassioned rejection of passion)
was contained and, in spite of its
naivety, said most forcibly and most
memorably in her first novel, “My
Brilliant Career.”
D. S.
"T he Swayne Family”
Writing in the youth of England’s
glory, Shakspeare considered that life
was “like a flower in springtime”; but
the Galsworthian novelist of the
between-wars period of this century,
the Vance Palmer of The Swayne
Family (Angus and Robertson). Mel-
bourne centenary novel competition
winner, first published in 1934. thought
of it as an autumn or winter flower—
at earliest, a last rose of summer;
full-blown and about to scatter its
petals.
Shakspeare did not neglect old men,
and Galsworthy and Palmer have been
good enough on young men—the differ-
ence is one of approach and emphasis.
“The Forsyte Saga” is orientated from
the England of an old man. old Jolyon,
who is finished with life; “The Swayne
Family” from the Melbourne of Digby
Swayne, retired from business and
politics. Both watch what they
consider to be the decay of their
families in a world for which they have
no sympathy and over which they have
no control.
Old Digby S wayne’s lawyer-son
George is overshadowed by the lawyer-
son of his hated brother; George
cracks himself up in a motor-car after
being rejected by a girl who is no
better than she ought to be. Ernest,
not content with going in for art,
goes to jail after getting mixed-up in
a Communist riot. Dorothy marries
a charming Englishman who almost
leaves her for another woman; but
she is reassured by the promise of a
baby. Kathleen, the old man’s
favorite child, runs off to marry an
orchardist, a possible illegitimate.
Most of these happenings are
insulated from the reader, as from
the old man, by the technique of off-
stage reporting. About the only
decisive action the reader actually sees
is George getting bopped on the back
of the head in a Melbourne slum by
the lowly lover of his dubious girl-
friend. The rest is suggested by what
the characters think or tell each other
(Continued on page 58)


Phone B 0951 Box 2712, G.P.O.
“While I Live i Grow”
m
wm
4
i
*
:
W)
'
II
V..;:" ■:■ • ■ • ■
< t - &Tn
: : Ij: ’.: i.. ; \ : I ; :-:- : \
m
mz
■•■■■■
1,; !
1
***
SEASON’S STYLE
by Hutton of England, Packard, Hans man, Saxon e
. . . your fitting . . . your size . . . your new season’s colour.
They’re all here in your favourite shoemaker’s streamline
best. Come in whilst this amazing range is at its best.
All fractional sizes . . . Men’s Centre, George Street.
Hangman’s ‘New Yorker,’
2 hole tassel tie, 'mocc.
vamp, corded band. Avail-
able in ‘Calabash’ analine
calf. Priced at ISO/-.
Saxone ‘Piccadilly,’ plain
vamp 2 hole tie derby in
latest shade of tobacco
suede; also olive green. A
versatile shoe. At 130/-.
Hutton’s ‘Playboy,’ suede
or calf derby with repair-
able crepe soles. Dark
brown, sambur, olive green
suede or tan calf. 168/-.
Packard’s ‘Florida’ banded vamp and 2
hole tie derby. Super Willoflex construction.
Mahogany or black analine calf. 129/6.
WHY NOT OPEN A NON-STOP CREDIT BUDGET ACCOUNT?


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 2, 1957
Vol. 78—No. 4051
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
DEFENCE AND THE PUBLIC
THERE are at present connected with
defence (a) plenty of chagrined arm-
chair critics, and (b) plenty of problems
which tie-in with the world scene in
politics and with world strategy and
tactics.
In the past 10 years defence every-
where has been in the melting-pot or in
the playground of theorists who are
very fine and up-and-coming research-
scientists but whose ability to envisage
the essential needs of the military
machine in the application of their
inventions is very limited.
And, well aware of this, the push-
button-warfare idea is possibly the
most dangerous ingredient in Russia's
insidious and well-thought-out cam-
paign which catches mug reporters,
frightens mug readers and listeners
and induces in young men who might
be making defence a career a sense of
futility: a doubt whether the defence-
forces as now organised are not playing
an outmoded game like the old type
of Chinese war, which was mostly noise
and bungers.
The lessons of the Eastern Front in
World War II and the Korean cam-
paign have largely been lost on the
politicians of the West for two good
reasons—firstly, their susceptibility to
public opinion and their inability to
think-out problems without the
pressures of external emotions:
secondly, their inability to regard
individual men, as do the cold-eyed
planners of the Kremlin, merely as
expendable weapons.
It was a Russian sneer during the
Korean war that the Americans were
prepared to lose two guns to save one
man. and the outlook behind this jibe
is born of the Russian tacticians’
conviction that if the Soviet Union has
a sufficient margin of killable man-
power over that owned and onerable
in the field and factory by Western
foes, reserves, not weapons, will be
the decisive factor.
In other words, they believe logically
that the age-old axiom that it is the
final reserves that win wars still holds
good. And they also have to their
advantage the knowledge that the
Western politician shrinks —and has to
shrink if he values his political skin—
from getting any more killed than he
can- help, whereas a stony-hearted
dictatorship in the Kremlin or Peking
does not need to care.
In both the Eastern European front
and in Korea later Communist battles
were won or stalemated again and
again by the use. of huge numbers of
ill-armed troops who were sent to be
slaughtered by modern-armed German
troops or by American ingenuity,
which was presently choked to exhaus-
tion by the endless task of killing. Ill-
defended aerodromes were kept in
operation in Korea against the most
modern aerial attack by the antlike
effort of numbers, and wellnigh
impregnable defence positions were
produced by the clawings of Asiatic
hordes without a bulldozer to their
names.
While the Russians are telling the
outside world, and with the help of
the glamorised and conceited inventors
in the university-laboratories persuad-
ing Western public opinion, that this
is an age of war in giant nuclear
helpings, Russian military leaders are
instructing their own people in the
doctrine that man-numbers are vitally
important, and that trained manpower
will, in the end, be the decisive factor
—though this is combined with
emphasis on the power to move' and
disperse, and on maximum weaponing
and concentration of aerial-attack
forces for long-distance operations
against armament and commissariat
sources and communications.
There are no fewer than six separate
commands-in-chief in Russia, the
Asian ones having about half the 175
troop-divisions, and the rest, about
75-80 divisions, being concentrated on
the relatively short Western front
from the Black Sea to the Baltic.
The main strength of air-power is
against America—two of the three
Soviet long-distance striking air-forces
are reported by usually reliable
authorities to be stationed in the Polar
regions as part of the main strategical
air-concentration.
In the light of the disposition of
Russian forces and the nature of
Russian—and Chinese Communist—•
theory, Australia’s defence policy is
peculiarly difficult to formulate and
publicise effectively, especially in the
face of the existence of a press many
of whose outstanding writers are under
Leftist influences, and a Federal
Opposition which takes its tune from
Moscow.
The main factors which should
influence it are that all war must be
global and that therefore probably
centralised more than any other war
in history. Russian attacks of intimate
interest to us would probably consist
of disrupting, but not lethal, feints on
outlying allies to keep their forces at
home, and a massive strike with land
forces, preceded by “barrages” of
guided and ballistic weaponry, against
Europe, since there mortal attacks can
be driven home by the shortest route,
and the moral effects of Western defeat
would be greatest. The aerial war
would be a strategic war mainly
directed against the United States
industrial production, while, equally,
the American attacks would be aimed
against the now widely dispersed
Russian war-production centres, not
easy to get at nor to be destroyed in
a week or a month of Sundays.
In the war of the giants the Com-
monwealth can play little part, save
in the preliminary stages of experi-
ment of the type now going on at
Maralinga, for which Australia’s empty
terrain has great advantages. On the
military side the most it can do is to
produce the basic kernel for expansion
of internal defence-forces—the strength
of our economy will not bear a greater
weight in peace-time. The kernel of
expansion must be integrated into the
overall plan of Seato, and particularly
into the US. plan of weaponry and
functions which is the basis of the
master-plan. This is true in relation
to the whole East Asian and West
Pacific plan.
Above all it is necessary to develop
a defence morale like that of the old
A.I.F. Thinking at present is
dangerously confused by a press which
appears to feel that because the Gov-
ernment has not entered the millionaire
competition of the great Powers by
buying a dozen or so Starfighters—
which might disappear in an hour in
a single dogfight—-the Commonwealth
might as well lie down before the
steamroller with all four legs in the
air and its tail tucked in.
It is hard for the Government to
clarify the position and state the needs
of the situation for the average man,
particularly since the overall Western
plan is only now taking shape from
strategy down to weaponry and the
functions and even the form of troop-
units.
It is a marking-time period. But
more could be done with public-
relations in defence. It is vital that
they should be improved. For it is a
sad fact that with all the attractions
now offered in Australia by a military
life, even the tiny regular force repre-
sented in the Army by a nucleus
brigade-group and its attendant and
sister-services, the manpower, particu-
larly the officer-power requirement,
neither as to quality nor quantity is
at present being adequately filled.


THE UNCOMFORTABLE FAKIR


PLAIN ENGLISH
Retreat to Hunter
Dr. Evatt has at last decided on retreat
from Barton.
Every election since 1951, when he
beat Nancy Wake by only 243 votes in
a 41,600-vote poll, has meant a narrow
escape for him. If the Liberal party
had put up a male candidate of outstand-
ing quality he -would have long since
ceased to adorn Parliament.
This possibility has been well in the
mind both of himself and his organisers
for a long time, but the trouble has been
that nobody* could ' be found loyal
enough to make way for him in a
surefire electorate.
This is not the first time that it has
been mooted that he should go to Hunter,
the old seat of the late Matt Charlton,
whom Scullin succeeded as leader.
But Rowley James, the present occupier,
was not the dog to give up a bone
easily, and the fact that an undoubted
attempt was made to secure the New-
castle nomination, and to displace young
Davy Watkins—he and his father have
held the seat since the beginning of
Federation—shows that Mr. James had
to be somehow prised-off his bit of easy
living.
Previously there was talk of the leader
going to Cunningham, where the
incumbent (the veteran Davies) was ill,
and also to Werriwa, then held by
another chronic invalid, H. P. Lazzarini.
But it is astonishing that, vaunting their
leader as. onexof the greatest statesmen
this side of Ulan Bator—where Comrade
Molotov now resides—there has been no
anxiety to claim him in any safe seat in
preference to a newcomer to politics.
He has now been chosen, at least by
the reigning local junta, as the hope of
a seat which does not need much
representing.
All the junta cares about is that who-
ever sits for Hunter should be an extreme
Leftist and completely obedient in local
matters. If anybody attempts to oppose
the wishes of the controllers of the
electoral council he will find his liveli-
hood in serious jeopardy. The com-
missars of the coalfields are as relentless
as those of the Kremlin, and for the
leader there can be no plebiscite.
While the Great Liberal will now be
in a safe seat, the fact doesn’t either
add to his prestige or strengthen him
in his leadership, for which he has had
to face more than one challenge.
Dr. Evatt’s own hatchet-men in pre-
carious seats, like Mr. Haylen, who have
been faithful to him and his Kremlin-
loving line to the point of danger, will
feel uneasy. They are now apparently
being left to perish politically, as they
assuredly will, in the heat of battle, which
he proposes to conduct by loudspeaker
from a nice, quiet dugout with an assured
Labor majority of his own.
Already there is considerable unrest
in the party, more particularly since the
scuttle for cover follows the bitter attacks
of Chambers and Johnson, one of whom
has been purged.
The change from Barton to Hunter is
a tacit admission that Labor can’t win
the next Federal elections. If Barton
could not develop enough swing to
make sure of a supposed world figure
holding it, Labor certainly cannot carry
enough marginal and near-marginal seats
held by the Liberals and C.P. to put
the A.L.P. into power.
SJy-loaf Bakers
Which is the more important duty of a
Government —to see that the people get
good bread, or to make sure that bakers
are prosecuted if they bake outside
stipulated hours?
The N.S.W. Government doesn’t
hesitate ; it places hours before quality.
A bill to make it easier for inspectors
to nab malefactors in the act of commit-
ting the heinous offence of before-hours
baking—it would enable them to force
entry to a bakehouse and would compel
bakeries to have an access to a public
street or lane —was recently prepared.
When some caucus-members expressed
disapproval it was referred to a sub-
committee.
This subcommittee expressed the
opinion that the proposals were too
bureaucratic and suggested an extension
of baking-hours, but the Minister for
Labor and Industry, J. J. Maloney, told
the members they did not have the power
to suggest amendments. ' They could
only deal with the proposals before
them.
By this he apparently meant their only
function was to approve Cabinet’s
decisions. No agreement could be
reached, and the subcommittee adjourned
to chew the matter over, probably find-
ing it almost as tough to chew as
Monday’s cut-lunch made with Friday's
bread.
Even as at present enforced day-baking
ruins Sydney’s bread in two ways.
Deliveries have to be made straight from
the oven without giving the loaves time
to cool, and the consequent “sweating”
in the confined carts causes a tendency
to go mouldy. Secondly, especially in
summer, there is the problem, almost
impossible of solution, of trying to keep
bread fresh throughout the weekend.
Night-work, at appropriate rates of
pay, is permitted in most industries.
Why should it be a crime when under-
taken by bakers?
Sterling and Russian Gold
The increase in the bank-rate from 5 per
cent, to 7 per cent., combined with other
steps to defend sterling, demanded the
public courage which the British Govern-
ment never lacks in crisis.
The measure was severe when
combined with a tightening of the credit-
squeeze and the cutting of both public
and private investment, but so was the
need.
Mr. Thorneycroft did not exaggerate
when he said that there had been “heavy
speculative pressure against sterling," and
this was the prime reason for the sudden
and drastic move of the Treasury, apart
from the support-which it must give to
its other measures. The pressure began
during the Suez crisis and was a full-scale
attempt to force Britain to devalue the
£ or exhaust its gold-dollar reserves.
There was a very heavy call on sterling
in August, some of it a bit mysterious;
and this developed dangerously with the
devaluation of the French franc, followed
by a natural retreat of funds into West
Germany. On the eve of the meeting of the
International Monetary Fund in Wash-
ington, it was thought necessary to act
quickly, so that a dangerous inflation
might be guarded against. As Mr.
Thorneycroft said, “it will not be possible
to check the rising cost-of-living and main-
tain the worth of sterling it we try to
spend more or live better than our
resources allow or our production
justifies." And living and all public and
defence-service costs in the U.K. show
signs of rising in consonance with the
lift in wages and other inflationary
factors.
The measure is drastic and extreme,
and it comes at a time when there is a
fear that the Kremlin might come into
the world money-market with a bank of
its own and a load of gold which it has
been piling-up at the rate of about £BO
million sterling a year, and has so far
used very conservatively.
There have been hints from Moscow
that this could happen over several
months, and such a move cunningly
planned and with gold of £4OOO million
to £5OOO million, used to take-over
exchange-control of Western countries
Operating a free gold-market, could create
great uncertainty and embarrassment,
apart from the political effects if it were
used as bribes to Arab kingdoms and to
India, which is at the end of its exchange-
tether, and Japan, which is parched for
foreign exchange.
Money, indeed, might be more danger-
ous to the West than war if the Russians
were able to make skilled and deliberately
destructive use of their gold hoard on an
ebb-and-flow basis for purchase and
resale of sterling and dollar-exchange and
for remaking the financial pattern of the
present areas; this especially as the
speculators who have been “dealt a
severe blow”—the view of the “New York
Times” —by the decisive British action
might be prepared to play. It is
suggested that a Congressional Committee
may investigate the reports of Moscow’s
intentions.
Henry Laws©ra Alloaf
Melbourne is a cultured city. Every
year when it holds its Moomba, besides
showing three miles of bad paintings in
the Fitzroy Gardens, it has a book-fair in
the Town Hall basement. Mr. Menzies,
who is a cultured citizen, opens it;
authors talk at it; and thousands of
people go to it and buy books.
Sydney is—well, Heaven knows what
Sydney is; but in this year’s Waratah


Festival there is also to be a festival of
Australian books.
Perhaps the most pleasing thing about
it is that “Henry Lawson and his
Characters” are to float down George
Street in a procession, as will also D’Arcy
NHand’s “The Shiralee”; but the more
solid and meaningful display is to be at
David Jones’s art-gallery from October 8
to 12, when Australian books will be on
sale and display, with hopeful authors
attending to autograph them and other
authors reading their own works on
gramophone-records.
Further, the Mitchell Library will dis-
play Australian books; the A.B.C. will
broadcast Australian plays and talks on
books ; and authors and critics will give
talks at the Royal Empire Society’s
lecture-room.
Thus Sydney, as well as Henry Lawson,
floats on ; and a very good thing, too.
Sledgehammer Contempt
Two just -on - perfect non - sequiturs
followed the announcement in Melbourne
of the judgment of Mr. Justice O’Bryan
in the case in which the Trades Hall
Council sought legal power to evict the
Democratic Labor party from Room 2
—the old A.L.P. room which the D.L.P.
seized at the time of the split—in the
Trades Hall.
Simple folk may have presumed the
learned judge had set the D.L.P. up in
cheap premises for years when he ruled
that the Trades Hall Council had no
power to evict them ; but half-an-hour
after the delivery of the judgment
officials began smashing-down with
sledgehammers the wall into the room ;
and when they finally got in they found
the D.L.P. had vacated it, anyway.
Nobody can understand why the
D.L.P. vacated the room on the eve of
yictory, after long years of siege. The
Trades Hall hints it needed a glass-door
in the dividing-wall, but it looks mighty
like the first time the Victorian Supreme
Court has been subjected to contempt
wiih sledgehammer blows.
The Executive Acts
Early on the morning of September 21 an
oily mobile-crane arrived outside the new
glasshouse offices of Humes, Ltd., in
William Street, Melbourne, picked up a
2i-ton sculptured stone from the terrace
and took it to the industrial suburb of
Footscray, where it was unloaded, of
all places, on the floor of a quarry.
Humes, no doubt fondly imagining this
would dispose of the controversial object,
touche i-off, instead, a furious wrangle
among traditional and modern schools of
artists of all branches.
„ Employees in the building who had
been fascinated by it, in the rather
peculiar way cobras attract watchers,
called it The Thing; but the managing-
director of Humes was rather more
definite, as may have been expected from
a man who had to foot a £5OO bill, and
"In future you can do your own brainwashing .”
asserted that a couple of Hume pipes
would have been just as decorative.
The work was sculptured by George
Allen, who was an official war-artist and
is head of the sculpture department of the
Royal Melbourne Technical College. He
had not previously startled Melbourne
with any Things, and it was merely his
conception of a contemporary piece of
free form-sculpture which the architects,
Bates, Smart and McCutcheon, wanted,
but Humes decided they did not.
Traditionalists see the unceremonious
dumping of the work as a Revolt
Against Art Anarchy, linking it with the
refusal to hang a modern portrait prize-
winning entry at Wagga. They are out-
numbered roughly three-to-one in the
newspaper correspondence - columns,
probably because they feel that, unlike
their art-adversaries and The Thing, they
are sitting pretty.
The U.M. Smokescreen
The United Nations Assembly meeting
in New York has done nothing effective
save replace Prince Wan, whose country
was in a state of military revolution
during the proceedings, by Sir Leslie
Munro, the New Zealand delegate, as
president.
Apart from that the organisation has
issued a smokescreen of propaganda to
justify the existence of its inflated civil
service, which is more expensive even
than that of Canberra.
The harassed propagandist of the U.N.
is adjured modestly in its pamphlet to
tell its adversaries or inquiring friends
that its primary purpose is to “save
succeeding generations from the scourge
of war,” that the “road to follow in
seeking this objective is clearly laid
down,” which is that member-States
involved in an international dispute likely
to endanger peace “are enjoined to look
for a solution by peaceful means.” It is
stated solemnly that:
The United Nations, too, tries to promote
peace by promoting peaceful methods.
But if “such piecemeal methods fail, the
United Nations can take collective action
to maintain peace.” That is, if Mr.
Dulles will let it and agrees that Uncle
Sam will pay the cost and do most of
the fighting.
As an example of the work it has
done in this direction it quotes as one
example its achievements in the Middle
East last year.
The U.N. sees great significance in
the fact that within a period of a little
more than a year “the U.N. membership
increased by one-third,” so that “the
U.N. became more fully representative
of the world community....” “There
are now 81 members,” while before the
recent admission of 21 “nations” the
membership had stood at 60 for more
than five years. There had been a long-
standing deadlock about admissions since
the beginning of the Korean war which
was broken on December 14, 1955, when
“sixteen nations were voted in one after
another at a single meeting.”
Admission is made for the most part
on the basis not of the fitness of the
country-candidate for membership but
on that of a series of sordid bargaining
for pair-votes between the Communist
bloc and the West. If the Kingdom of
Heaven were proposed for membership
the Russians would use their veto unless
Outer Monoglia or the Indian State of
Kerala were also let in to balance the
voting.
The first 16 new States admitted
included Hungary, which the Russians
almost immediately began to savage.
Italy, Albania, Bulgaria and Rumania
also were allowed in, along with
Jordan, Ireland, Portugal, Austria,
Finland, Nepal, Libya, Cambodia, Laos
and Spain. The next batch consisted
of the Sudan, Morocco and Tunisia,
followed by Ghana, “comprising the
former Gold Coast and the former
United Nations British trust territory of
Togoland.”
The entry of this gaggle of half-
baked, and in many cases blood-soaked,
snippets of the earth’s surface is held up
by the U.N. as “an historic stage in the
evolution of the United Nations,” a
“decisive step” towards “universality.”
When Doodlakine and the republic
of Borroloola have been inducted the
world will have become one great big
United Nations brotherhood.
But it is to be hoped that its brother-
hood will be a different kind from that
displayed last year in, say, Hungary.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
AFTER having read Diana Barry-
more’s Too Much Too Soon, and
Gypsy Rose Lee’s memoirs, I can well
understand why stars hate and fear maga-
zines like “Confidential” and “Whisper”
getting in first with their life-stories and
hijacking their royalties.—“O.W.W.”
♦> ♦>
“Bagot”: “I have heard some stories in
this court but that’s the best yet,” said a
Westralian magistrate when he handed
out a hefty penalty in a drunk-driving
case. The driver’s plea: “Your worship,
I was trying to find a friend’s house ; that
was why I was weaving from one side of
the street to the other.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Have you, like me, men-
tally fidgeted at the seemingly intermin-
able number of times the dial is flipped
in American films in making an automatic
telephone-call? Well, some of you will
be obliged to control your impatience
when a combination of seven numbers is
introduced on the Cronulla (Sydney)
exchange-system after November next.
*;♦
“Tom Trout”: Americans gave us the
term “hitch-hiking,” but I credit the
Italians with distorting an English word
into a more pungent description of the
operation. They call it “auto-stoppa!”
*:♦ * »j+
“Lorna Doone”: Show-day snippet in
South Australia: Mumma with two small
boys and oodles of other show-impedi-
ments : “Don’t leave go me hand ; don’t
move ; and don’t pop those bloody guns!”
❖ * ❖
“R.D.”: Since big-time newspapers
integrated with commercial television, a
new horror, and a journalistic crime, has
been forced on readers: fob-offs of tele-
vision-plugs as news ; illustrations, head-
lines, interviews and all. As one who
almost-never listens to commercial radio
because the fatuous “commercials”
exasperate me, and who turns down his
set while the plugger is drooling his dope,
I feel had, for one can’t turn off a well-
disguised printed plug. Did newspaper-
ethics die with the birth of the cathode-
tube?
❖ ❖ *>
“Sister Ellell”: New causes for old
illnesses are constantly arising in this
present day and age; a lass complained
of a painful nose ; asked the cause, she
replied off-handedly, “A joker up a
ladder dropped a spanner down on it.”
►> *> *>
“Curie”: I have just read for the first
time Joseph Furphy’s Such Is Life. I
enjoyed it very much. But really! Was
he having a gentle crack at the emascu-
lated modesty of the age, or did they
really write “ ” for “trousers,” and
“b—d” for “bed” in those days?
❖ ❖ *>
“Tabba”: I hadn’t realised there were
so many saints until Laurie took a wager
that he could keep off the grog for six
weeks. By the end of the week he was
wavering, “Is Sunday exempt?” he asked.
His challenger big-heartedly agreed.
Next time he wavered Laurie said, “Treat
Saints’ days as Sundays?” The challenger
agreed—and regretted it. Every time the
urge was on him Laurie pored over his
little book and came up with a martyr
we’d never heard of. Not that he thirsted
much; he found a saint for almost every
day of the next five weeks!
“Doric”: Was surprised to find the
cyclorama still going in Europe.
Remember, as a small child, being taken
to see one at Sydney's Railway Square, on
the site of what was later to become the
now-deceased Glaciarium, an endless
circulating strip of oil-painting which one
viewed from a platform in the centre ;
this one depicted an incident in the Boer
War. Well, there’s one still going at
Waterloo outside Brussels, depicting that
famous battle, and at Lucerne we were
shown an epic of Swiss history in the same
medium.
*'* <♦ ►>
“Bicky”: He’s one of the regulars in
our compartment on the 8.15 a.m. train
to the city, and more often than not he’s
in the throes of a hangover when he
greets us. He looked a most dejected
figure when he boarded the train the other
day and wearily plopped down on the
seat. “You don’t look so good,” I ven-
tured. “No,” he sighed. “Must’ve over-
eaten at breakfast —had five aspirins with
my half-cup of tea and cigarette this
morning.”
“He's never been the same since Hillary spoke to him.”
WISE GUYS
Radioactive substances
May be why mental powers thrive
In kids, a doctor tells the press,
Born since 1945.
It seems more proper to infer
From what the scientists let fall
That children would be cleverer
If they had not been born at all.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Tom Trout”: I skidded off my scooter
dodging a car dodging an ox-cart on a
narrow Italian road, sustaining gravel-
gashed arms. The car sped on ; the ancient
bullocky repeatedly demanded was I all
right, but stayed perched on his cart. The
crowd that materialised from nowhere
were quickly quarrelling with each other.
A French youth offered a lift on the
pillion of his motor-bike, despite my
obvious inability to hold on
to anything; a practical Swiss
frau told me to stay put while
she motored to the nearest
town to 'tell the doctor. A
young Italian countered this,
offering to take me 'and
wrecked scooter in on his
camionetta, and was supported
by a section of the crowd who
said I’d wait all day for the
doctor to come. Police finally
whizzed me into hospital
while I dripped blood over the
upholstery of their beautiful
car. But I enjoyed that ride
under a wailing siren:
the casual Italian citizenry, who love
strolling along the crown of the road,
and who had only laughed whenever I had
burped my scooter-horn at them, actually
ran to eet out of the way of the speeding
patrol-car!
❖ ❖
“1.H.P.”: There was a three-tone car
displayed at a country show, “Ardoyne”
(B. 18/9/’57), pink, blue and cream. It was
certainly an eye-catcher, but the agents
thought of it more as a publicity-stunt
than a seller. Within the hour a man
rushed up, grabbed the attendant, said
“That’s the car for me and don’t you
dare sell it to anyone else. When can I
have it?” As for using patchwork- or
rainbow-effects, I did see a car the other
day with a tartan panel to offset the cream
body, so your predictions may not be
so far out.
“P.0.M.C.”: A live-wire car-selling
acquaintance says the color-schemes
of motor-cars are influenced by, and
quickly follow, color-trends in men’s
clothes. He dates the two- and three-tone
pastel effects on models beginning around
three years ago to the season that Saville
Row, Bond Street and Fifth Avenue
sanctioned china-blue, both pale- and
dark-green, dapplecl-grey, orange, tomato-
red and even pink as manly colors ; not
merely for accessories but, in some in-
stances, for suits. Consequently, of
“Ardoyne’s” alternatives for the future —
single all-over color or patchwork, or
rainbow-effects—the premise (judging by
current window-displays of clobber for
he-men) undoubtedly favors rainbow.
♦Jt
“Y. Mee”: Doctors’ bills! (B.
14/8/ ’57). We’ve come a long way since
Lord Chief Justice Kenyon in 1791 ruled
that “no action lay for a physician’s fees
. . . .” and expressed doubt whether the
profession would have it otherwise. Let
the old boys of the 18 th century
speak for themselves; the majority of
medical men of the early part of the
present century took a dim view of that
"What time did you leave Kosciusko ?”
judgment and sought means of getting
around it. My clients, instead of suing
for “fees for professional services ren-
dered,” averred in the plaint that the cause
of action was for “work and labor done.”
Indeed, in the case of one doctor who
compounded his own mixtures, the cause
of action was described as “for work
and labor done and for sold and
1 delivered.” It always worked. I know —
I’m a bad-debt collector.
* * *
“Dorian”: It was Dr. Arne’s bad luck
to have lived while London’s ears were
resounding to massed choirs and orches-
tras bleating Handel’s freshly minted
oratorios. In the realm of 20th-century
art, it appears that Betsy, a simian inmate
of America’s Baltimore Zoo who gets up
to £5O per painting (what she does with
the cash is anybody’s guess), is being fast
overshadowed. Her rival is a chimp,
named Congo, who resides in London
Zoo. Might be an idea to bring Congo
and Betsy together ; their offspring could
turn out to be Dalis or Picassos. The
only trouble would be a possible clash
of artistic temperament.
♦j« *
“Ardoyne”: For the first time for
15 years a Victorian court has
awarded damages, to the tune of £lOO,
against a woman in a breach-of-promise
suit —a Greek girl who had promised to
marry a young Greek migrant. On the
strength of her written promise, he had
sponsored her as a migrant; they hadn’t
previously met, and three days after her
arrival in Australia she jilted him and
subsequently married another man. The
presiding judge ruled that the plaintiff
had suffered no real humiliation —he had
married another girl—but was entitled to
get back what he had spent plus “a small
amount to recompense him for un-
pleasantness.”
“K.A.R.”: An artist friend of an artist
friend of mine paints day and night, find-
ing an occasional job only when neces-
sary. His wages are spent solely on paints
and canvas, for he has trained himself to
eat little and, having no home, to sleep
anywhere. His only clothes are those he
wears. He walks barefooted, carrying his
shoes in his pocket, and these he’ll slip
on if (for instance) you invite him inside
for a meal. However, knowing they’re
probably the last pair of shoes he’ll buy,
he’ll remove them again the minute he is
outside your gate.-
&
“An Chuidh”: Confusion over the same
surname was easily avoided in Scotland
(B. 11/9/’57), though there are, for
instance, some 80,000 MacDonalds. A
man is simply called by the name of his
holding, be it “Seaforth” Mackenzie or
“Boghole.” Surnames or clan-names are
a possession, not a means of identification.
Unlanded men are generally known by
their nickname —I still think affectionately
of the time I was simply “lain Ban.” It
wasn’t until I was looking for a shop
owned by a Macree in Ullapool that it
sank into my skull that the only other
surname in the town is Mackenzie! Still,
it’s worse in China, with only ,1000 sur-
names divided amongst the population and
marriage with the same surname
forbidden.
❖ ❖ *>
“G. 8.”: Mention in the Sydney press
of the Cockney actor George Dean, who
spoke the first lines when Sydney’s
Criterion Theatre opened in 1880 and the
final words from the same stage at the
last performance in 1935, reminds me of
Alexis Malachoff, a Russian soldier who
fought against the French soldiers led
by Napoleon, at the Battle of Borodino,
before Moscow, on September 7, 1812.
He was captured by soldiers of the French


Old Guard ; but was released. In Decern-
ber, 1840, when the British Government
returned Napoleon’s body to France,
Malachoff visited Paris, where he laid a
wreath on Napoleon’s tomb. On Septem-
ber 7, 1912, still hale and hearty at 120
years of age, he attended the centenary
celebrations held in St. Petersburg, to
commemorate Borodino. Tsar Nicholas
II said at the accompanying banquet that
Malachoff “was the first soldier in history
to have fought in a great battle and also
to have been present at its centenary.”
“The trouble is, Women are spoilt these days. We always managed to
get along without a dish-washing machine."
“Dicky”: Beautifully dressed, char-
coal suit, pink shirt, bow-tie, brief-case,
air of distinction and all, he got into the
train at a suburban station, strode with
purposeful dignity to a window-seat, sat
down and unzipped the brief-case with a
businesslike speed. No, not legal papers,
nor weighty sheafs of notes, but a steamy
bundle of fish-’n’-chips, which he ate with
obvious enjoyment, licking slim, mani-
cured fingers, and reading the headlines
which had been thoughtfully wrapped
round his meal.
* * ♦>
“Arpee”: Shabbily dressed and a bit
on the grubby side, they were still at the
short-pants stage, but no female passer-
by under 40 was spared their rapid
appraisal and raucous comments. They
were apparently the acknowledged wits of
their school, too, and a rowdy group of
older mates in the other compartment
kept up a hot barrage of insults which
drew some wonderfully penetrating
retorts. It was getting to the stage where
in another country one would have
expected the conductor to impose a little
discipline, but peace and quiet came in a
wholly unexpected way. The tram stopped
outside the T.P.I. hostel and a blind
Digger tapped his way towards the door
of our compartment. Without a word,
the two terrors were on their feet, guid-
ing him to a seat, asking him how far
he was going. He travelled the half-
dozen sections into town, and there was
never another peep from the brats. They
got off at the same stop, helped him down,
and gravely escorted him across the busy
intersection.
“Old Crab”: I always thought our
taxation-wallah a staid old codger until
the day they handed him a note to a rela-
tive deceased, sent, not to the address for
service, but to another address. The
Taxation Office said they had “reasons to
believe he had changed his address.” The
old boy did them over in one sentence:
“As the taxpayer has died, I don’t know
his address and I doubt jf any taxation
official does, either.”
4 * 4
\, * *
Alma : A glance through the Situa-
tions Vacant” in the morning paper often
” e wondering. What, for instance,
r u answering a nted. Able man.
Must be able ,0 P l^
_ * *
“V.M.”: It’s all very well to shudder
and think strange thoughts about the
rhyming in Kendall’s “Bellbirds” (Red
Page 28 /8 / ’57), but for a 13-year-
old schoolboy the cantering rhythm and
easily-worded rhymes were as manna from
heaven after “Who steals my purse steals
trash,” and “This is the forest primeval,
the murmuring pines and the hemlocks,”
of Shakspeare and “Evangeline.” I could
remember Kendall, letter-perfect, for a few
weeks quite easily ; but for writing “He
who steals my purse,” I once led out half
the class to get two cuts apiece. We were
never flogged in bulk about the Australian
poets 50 years ago.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“P.0.M.C.”: According to “Granny”—
she’s 128 this year, so allowances may be
made —a bloke who had just bought a
829 Superfortress said:
When I get it I’ll spend a dew hours
finding out how it works. But whether the
Dept, of Civil Aviation will let tercon-
tinental ballistic missile claims as nonsense.
Russia is pretty well along with missile
development.
Of course, it may be abstract art-
criticism for those who don’t know any-
thing about what they like and don’t like
jvhat they know.
DUMB INSOLENCE
“Witness said that when her husband accused
her unjustly of taking money he had won at
the dogs she didn’t answer him; he had then
attacked her.” —Court report.
There could swim into your ken
A bookie who had had
To give the game away because the
punters
Had again, and yet again
“Picked the programme,” or the lad
With appetite thrice that of Billy
Burner’s;
Convict scorning his release;
Hero of film not bulletproof;
A modest, shrinking-violet legislator ;
Or the motorist, when police-
Car he sights, takes not his hoof
Automatically off accelerator.
A conductor you might meet
Who will raise a merry laugh
As you pay your tram-fare with a
dozen pennies;
A cop with smallish feet;
Or a short, bull-necked giraffe ;
Poorly requited “amateurs” of top
tennis;
You might even strike a Bung
Who could, in his spare time, talk
Against the evils of excessive
drinking —
But the dame with lung and tongue
In good order, yet who balks
A t snap-retort’s sorer than these, I’m
thinking.
Yet if this could be a fact —
That she wasn’t merely stunned
By the charge, so that her larynx
wouldn’t function ;
That aggressiveness she lacked
And contention s bone she shunned,
Fearful, perhaps, of conjugal dis-
junction —
Then a pearl of price is she
Quite beyond compare, a gem
Of womanhood, and one who’d be
beholden
To none. Yet it could be
That her lord would swift condemn
Her silence then as guilt rather than
golden !
N.s.w.
S. W. K.


“Y ' Done a Good Job... "
By DON JORDAN
THE City Hall was busy laying out
its red carpet, polishing its glass-
ware, checking on its cellar, hang-
ing out its flag and ordering the
oyster-patties. t
The Mayor, bless him, was in his
room looking at a typed sheet of paper.
It was his speech. His press-secretary had
just handed it to him. From long
practice he would be able to plant enough
of its facts in his mind for the frame-
work of what he would say. He would
weave the color and eloquence when
the time came.
“Your Grace . . .” he murmured. After
a while he put the paper down. It was
pretty heavy weather. He would look at
it again later.
The Mayor put on his hat and went
out and stood in the sun at fhe side of
the City Hall. He was shivering a little,
and his head ached.
He got into his car and talked to his
driver, but that seemed to do no good.
He needed a full-blooded rum to set him
up.
So upstairs again he went. He- noted
the “To the Reception” placards being
placed along the passageway. He went
into the reception-chamber and helped
himself to a rum. One of the attendants
told him he looked a bit off, and he took
his rum over to the mirror. He did look
off. His face was damp, his eyes dull
and red and wet. He looked at his watch.
The reception was coming up in 45
minutes. That meant early guests in
about 15 minutes. He looked around the
reception-room and the white tablecloths
and shining glasses dazzled him. He
looked in the mirror again. He looked
putrid.
“I’ve got the ’flu,” he told himself, and
he was right.
Back in his office, shivering, he lifted
his phone and dialled. After a time he
spoke:
“Charlie, it’s all yours. I’m crook.
Going home. You’ll have to do it for
me. Come over quick, Charlie.”
He put down the phone, and at this
stage the Mayor leaves us.
Into his place, in a little while, comes
Charlie, the Deputy Mayor, breathless
with haste after running three blocks
from his fruit-shop ; nervous, too, for
this has never happened to Charlie before.
Charlie had stood-in for the Mayor at
many a council meeting, and handled
them admirably, but he had never
stood-in for him at any reception, let
alone a big one.
Charlie needed a drink, too. The
attendant selected whisky without a word,
poured, and handed the glass to the
Deputy Mayor.
Charlie sighed.
“That’s better,” he said. “A lot better
—a hell of a good drop, in fact.”
The Mayor’s press-secretary, he found,
was tapping his elbow and offering him
a typed sheet of paper.
“This is the Mayor’s speech,” the
secretary was saying. “He told me before
he left to give it to you. He suggested
that you should just read it out and not
“You're putting on Weight !”
bother to say it off the cuff. He said
that with all the rush you would probably
rather read it.”
The secretary felt he had handled this
rather tactfully.
It was not that Charlie was a poor
hand at making a speech. He was mag-
nificent, in his way. He had a voice like
a bull. Down near the railway they would
stand in the rain to hear him when he
bellowed for their votes near council-
election times. People from the plushier
parts of the city had yet to hear him.
The guests began arriving, and
Charlie left for the Mayor’s room to
clean-up.
One could notice among the guests a
big proportion of clergymen. There were
also some professors from the uni-
versity and their wives. Education was
rife. The reception was to honor a
highly placed cleric, who hailed from
England.
Into the reception-room came a top
staff-man from one of the city’s news-
papers. The guests were pretty thick in
the hall now. Near the door they parted
and formed a lane. Charlie and the
visiting cleric entered.
Charlie led the cleric about the hall,
introducing him. The reception went on,
and then at last an attendant rang a little
tinkling bell.
Silence. There was the cleric in a bit
of open space near the big mirror. Beside
him stood Charlie. Reaching into his
hip-pocket, Charlie produced a sheet of
typed paper. Beside Charlie stood the
secretary.
“Your Grace . . Charlie started,
in a voice that roared around the hall.
The university men shook themselves.
The clergymen’s eyes were wide.
“Y’ done a good job, y’r Grace,” roared
Charlie.
The secretary winced.
Charlie read on, how his Grace had
organised many worthy things in
England in the Blitz, and, as he read,
Charlie became lost in admiration.
Wherever a particularly notable
performance was recorded Charlie would
underline it:
“Oh, y’ done a good job, y’r Grace!”
Charlie was speaking from his heart,
and down there a spade was a spade.
Charlie had finished, and the visiting
cleric replied, but he was following an
orator whose effect had been stunning.
What the cleric said just couldn’t register.
The reception broke up, the guests
went their ways, Charlie went back to his
fruit-shop.
The newspaperman was good at telling
a story, and his story of the reception
became a favorite. When he came to
“Y’ done a good job, y’r Grace,” you
would have sworn it was Charlie. He
told it so well that he was often asked to
relate it.
Then one day he fell ill; like Mr.
Menzies, he had to have his tonsils out,
and the doctor, leaning over him as he
came to and asking how he felt, heard
him mutter croakily, “Y 5 done- a good
job, y’r Grace.”


POLITICAL POINTS
If the A.L.P. boys are convinced that
the Doc. couldn’t win Barton, how on
earth do they expect him to win a Federal
election for them?
• •
Melbourne Board of Works’ new rule
disqualifying firms which lobby for con-
tracts will call for some ticklish decisions
on where lobbying begins or ends. In
the Canberra and State Parliamentary
lobbies, business will continue as usual.
• •
Reported difficulty of the Queensland
Industrial Court in deciding the exact
nature of a crumpet suggests that the
court should call as an expert witness a
lass who was plaintiff in one of Errol
Flynn’s extra-marital court-cases a few
years ago. In the course of her evidence
she testified that the film-star used to call
her his “little strumpet.” Plaintiff’s
pounsel interposed that she meant
“crumpet.” “No, I don’t,” protested the
lass. “I mean ‘strumpet.’ It’s a kind of
English muffin.”
• •
The S.A. Electricity Trust and the
P.M.G.’s department are continuing
experiments in producing electricity by
wind-driven generators. The idea is to
use them for providing power for
telephone-exchanges in areas not serviced
by power-stations. It is expected that 10
generators will be established in South
Australia before the end of the year.
• •
Les Haylen represents Parkes, a
Sydney suburban electorate which gives
him a shaky majority. Five-sixths of
his speech in the Budget debate was
devoted to the problems of the coalfields.
The Doc. was offered his choice of two
safe coalfields seats. He accepted one.
Three guesses who’s got his eyes on the
other 1
• •
Cahill is going to run mammoth operas
to finance his Lottery House. Or some-
thing like that.
• •
A gainer from the current outburst of
late-closing should be the bloke in the
little corner-shop. He’s the regular prey
of O’Dea’s snoopers, ever on the lookout
to catch him selling half-a-pound of butter
or a packet of tea after hours —half the
fines, of course, go to the informer’s
union. Now that the snoopers have turned
their attention to organised breaches, the
freelance after-hours man can breathe a
little more freely for a while.
Deputising for Cahill at the opening
of a new industrial plant, N. S. Wales
Minister for Labor J. J. Maloney seized
the opportunity to sing a little song of
self-praise about the amazing industrial
progress the State had made under the
Labor regime. It has made progress all
right, but in comparison with other
States the rate is not flattering to Labor.
Opposition-leader Morton in the course
of the Budget debate quoted figures
issued by the Commonwealth Statistician
showing the value of factory-output in
1938-39 and 1955.-56. Between the two
periods output in N. S. Wales rose by
less than in any other State but Queens-
land. Actual figures: S.A., 784 p.c.;
Tasmania, 751 p.c.; W.A., 695 p.c.;
Vic., 645 p.c.; N.S.W., 611 p.c.; Queens-
land, 564 p.c.
Morton also pointed out that the
Cahill State’s rate of population-increase
is the lowest in the Commonwealth and
the increase in home-building smaller
than in any other State except Queens-
land.
• •
Bukowski, president of the Q.C.E. of
the Labor party, hasn’t put in an appear-
ance in the Gregory by-election campaign.
His absence led ex-Premier Gair to 'tell
a Longreach meeting that there was a
strange similarity between Bukowski and
Evatt. “Neither is wanted, but they
can’t keep Evatt out and they can’t get
Bukowski in.”
• *
In Northcote, John Cain’s old seat in
the Vic. Assembly, his A.L.P. successor,
Frank Wilkes, just won outright; but the
A.L.P. vote sagged from 60.9 p.c. in 1955
to 56:6 p.c. while the Democratic Labor
vote rose from 16.5 p.c. to 21.4 p.c. and
the L.C.P. was almost static at 22 p.c.
The Liberals, nonetheless, are very
happy about it. They are confident of
getting the bulk of D.L.P. preferences in
the election next year, and have hopes
that this factor may again return Bolte
with his majority of one, although it’s a
mighty • task to win with three other
parties in the field.
As for the A.L.P. —“We are not
worried,” says Tripovich, Victorian
secretary, bravely.
• •
South African Airways will open a
fortnightly air-service between Johannes-
burg and Perth, via Cocos Island, on
November 25. This will dovetail-in with
the fortnightly service Qantas Empire
Airways already maintains between
Sydney and Jo’burg. Q.E.A. planes are
at present routed through Darwin, but
will shortly switch to Perth as their last
Australian port-of-call.
• •
Only 700 wharfies (about a seventh
of the membership) turned up at a stop-
work meeting of the Melbourne branch
to denounce the shipowners’ log of claims
which Attacked Wages and Conditions
Which Have Taken Years to Win, and so
many of these became bored they walked
out, leaving just enough for the 480
quorum.
As a result the Comrades were able to
get through a revision stipulating 100 a
quorum, although the Groupers protested
that this meant a handful of men could
do anything with the union’s business.
But what’s to stop the Groupers
attending?
• •
Sydneysiders who are in the habit of
cashing their yearly tax-refund cheques
at the corner-pub had better make sure
they’re well known before they pass ’em
across the counter this year. Three men
and a girl have been charged with stealing
200 cheques from the Sydney Taxation
Office.
• •
“A.U.A.”: Cyril Chambers’s forecast
on his expulsion from the A.L.P., that
the Adelaide seat might be captured by
the Liberal party at the next election,
revives memories of past factional fight-
ings for this seat. At the 1919 election
Teddy Yates lost Adelaide to Reg
Biundell, wfio had been a member of
the Crawford Vaughan State Labor
Ministry but had lost his Labor ticket
because of his support of conscription.
Yates regained Adelaide in 1922 and
held it until the 1931 depression election
swept him and many of his colleagues
out of Parliament. Fred Stacey, carrying
the Joe Lyons banner, beat Yates, and
held Adelaide until 1943, defeating in
the meantime strong A.L.P. contestants
as Ken Bardolph (nowadays an S.A.
Legislative Councillor) and Edgar Dawes,
a 1930-33 S.A. Assemblyman and since
1945 the vice-chairman of the A.B.C.
Chambers regained Adelaide for Labor
in 1943. In rejecting him the party risks
losing the seat again.
• •
Barley outstripped wheat last year to
become South Australia’s chief grain
crop. Respective totals for the two were
barley, 34 million bushels; wheat, 31£
million bushels.
• •
“Hay Diet”: My income depends
almost entirely on the postal services—-
what I post and what I receive by post,
including occasional cheques. If the
postal-workers go ahead with their strike
proposals my income may cease entirely.
In that case I’m going to sue the union
for damages—and I think I’ll win.
• •
Judging by the definition in the Aus-
tralian Communist - party’s “Marxist
Glossary,” the party has not the same
high opinion of “social democracy” as its
defender, Dr. Evatt. It appears that its
history is marked by “timidity, legalism
and consistent betrayal of the working-
class.” However, that view was approved
by Stalin; so perhaps s.-d. has now
beetome respectable in Communist eyes.
Which might explain the enthusiasm of
certain Australians for it.


As part of his familiarisation course
as a miners’ rep. the Doc. is paying a
visit to Lithgow.
• •
The Prime Minister has asked Federal
Ministers to keep a close watch on
departmental expenditure, especially
administrative costs, overtime and the
need for taking on new staff. But aren’t
they supposed to have been watching
those things ever since 1949?
• •
Polling in the by-election for the
Gregory seat in the Queensland Assembly
Will take place on Saturday. The vacancy
was caused by the death of former Mines
Minister Devries just after nominations
had closed for the general election.
Gregory has long been a safe Labor
seat —Devries had an easy win in 1956
and was unopposed in 1953—but the
Labor split has made the present contest
very open. The late member was a Gair
man and the Q.L.P. candidate will be
Kevin Smith. J. Duggan, who led the
A.L.P. for the brief period between the
expulsion of Gair and the loss of his own
seat, Toowoomba, is trying to make a
comeback in Gregory, and the two
Government parties are backing Country-
party candidate W. Rae.
• •
Criticising the Playford Government,
Labor member Lawn said that it was
“a one-man band and there was too
much deadwood in the Cabinet.”
Apparently he wants to cut down the
woodwinds and have a bit more brass
and strings.
• •
Dr. Evatt on Major-General Legge’s
charge that the St. Mary’s munition
project was entered into against the
advice of the Chiefs-of-Staff: —-
Blame must be sheeted home to Mr.
Menzies, Sir Philip Mcßride, Mr. Howard
Beale and the former Minister for
Defence Production, Sir Eric Harrison.
Exactly. The truth need not be ascer-
tained. Just sheet home some blame
for the political purposes of the A.L.P.
In Dr. Evatt’s eyes any charge made
against the Government is automatically
proved.
• •
Dave Watkins, Federal Labor member
for Newcastle, who recently offered to
stand-down for the Doc., was expected
to come in for some strong criticism at
the meeting of Newcastle A.L.P.
Electorate Council on Sunday. Not for
his offer to Bert, but because of doubts
of his capacity to carry on with the job
—he has been a sick man recently.
Watkins beat the critics to the draw by
announcing that he wouldn’t be contest-
ing the preselection next time.
Watkins’s decision means that at least
four Labor seats can prepare themselves
for new occupants—Hunter, .where
Rowley James is making way for Evatt;
Kalgoorlie, which Johnson leaves
through criticising Evatt; Adelaide, from
which Chambers has been banished for
the same reason ; and Newcastle.
Presenting a Budget which was largely
prepared under the Gair regime, Queens-
land Treasurer Hiley estimated a deficit of
£ll million. He claimed that the chief
factor contributing to the deficit was the
fact that he had charged to Consolidated
Revenue losses on State coalmines and
other enterprises which under Labor Gov-
ernments were charged to trust and loan
accounts.
Hiley compared the practice of
“storing-up losses in the form of debit
balances in the trust and special funds”
with a housemaid who sweeps the dust
under the carpet.
• •
PI ay ford is pushing ahead with his
threat to challenge the legality of the
Snowy Mountains Agreement on the
grounds that it impinges on South Aus-
tralia’s rights under the Murray Waters
Agreement. His chief contention is that
the diversion of the Tooma River will
lessen the supply of Murray water by
about 330,000 acre-feet a year for the
next five years (until later~stages of the
plan restore an equivalent quantity from
other sources), with serious effects to
South in the event of drought.
Senator Spooner is reported to have
little doubt that the legality of the agree-
ment will stand up to a High Court test,
but Federal Ministers have very often
been wrong on points like this. Federal
participation in the Snowy Mountains
Scheme rests largely on the defence-
powers, and when the Chifley Government
began the project many members of the
present Government, then in Opposition,
expressed doubts.
The difficult thing to understand is why
South Australia has all along been
excluded from discussions which seem to
vitally affect its interests.
Wool-exports for the first two months
of this financial year were valued at
£50,452,000, compared with £43,880,000
for the corresponding period of last year.
It looks, however, as if the clip for this
year will be lighter than in the 1956-57
season. The National Council of Wool
Selling Brokers forecast in July that it
would total 1603 million lb. of greasy
wool (1565 million lb. last year), but
the continued dry conditions since then
have caused the trade to think that that
estimate was too high.
• •
N. S. Wales Local Government Depart-
ment has circularised councils instructing
them that loan-money may be used only
for purposes stipulated in the circular.
Storey, Liberal M.L.A. for Hornsby,
protested in the Assembly that the
directions went too far and amounted to
bureaucracy run mad. He said that if
the present trend continued councils
would be reduced to a status about equal
to that of progress associations.
This is merely another the
Cahill policy on municipal affairs which
for more than a decade has steadily
worked towards taking the “local” out
of local-government.
• •
An offer by the Federal Government
to contribute £400,000 (roughly one-
third) towards the cost of sealing the
roads from Canberra to Bateman’s Bay
and from Canberra to Cooma seems to
have taken the N. S. Wales authorities
by surprise. Both roads can well do with
the attention, but so can most country
roads in N. S. Wales, and the Main
Roads Board probably has quite a
number listed higher on the priority-list
than the two Canberra has nominated.
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST LOTTERY


there's a
flight to smt YOU!
Whenever you travel, wherever you travel, there’s always a
TAA VISCOUNT flight to suit you. For your convenience,
TAA operates daily round-the-clock Viscount flights, between
all states. From as far north as Cairns; to Hobart in the south, _
right across the nation to Perth in the west, you can fly TAA Viscount.
as
At ore people fly TAA-
Reservations: TAA Booking Offices in all States
the friendly way
or any authorised Travel Agent.
NPVSI7
PERSONAL ITEMS
Off to America via London, Arnold
James Cook, who has been lecturer in
economics in the Westralian University
since 1950. Blind at 18, he took his B.A.
in 1948, winning a Hackett scholarship
which enabled him to do two years’
further study at the London School or
Economics. An extra-mural achieve-
ment was his work in introducing the first
guide-dog to Australia. His eyes in
crowded London streets were Dreena, a
black Labrador retriever. She’s still with
him and will accompany him on the new
trip, which has been made possible by a
Fulbright grant and study-leave. While
in the U.S., he will do post-graduate work
at Harvard, specialising in banking and
economic theory.
• •
“F.W.”: There’s a new native member
of the Papua and New Guinea Legislative
Council, Mahuru Rarua-Rarua, who
replaces Merari Dickson (the new Council
still includes our old friends Simogun
Peta and John Vuia). Maljuru Rarua-
Rarua lives in Port Moresby, where he’s
secretary of the Federation of Native
Associations. The Federation is the
central buying agency for Papuan native
co-operatives, and Rarua’s long contact
with the co-op. movement means that
he’ll bring to the Council discussions a
wide knowledge of native groups through-
out Papua.
• •
“A.U.A.”: The apt use of words by
former Chief Justice Latham on his 80th
birthday (B. 11/9/’57) was matched by
the aptness of the words he used 21 years
ago in giving judgment in the case of
Trautwein v. the Taxation Commission.
The Chief Justice said that “in the absence
of some record in the mind or in the
books of the taxpayer it would be quite
impossible to make a correct assessment —
the assessment would necessarily be a
guess to some extent and almost certainly
inaccurate in fact. There is every reason
to assume that the legislature did not
intend to confer upon a potential tax-
payer the valuable privilege of disqualify-
ing himself in that capacity by the
simple and relatively unskilled method
of losing either his memory or his books.”
• •
Before he went to England in 1949
Dal Stivens was Well up among our best
story-writers, and had, as well, the name
of being one of the most enterprising
DAL STIVENS
freelances in Australia ; he’s done extra
well since. After 18 months as press-
officer for Australia House he branched-
out on his own, and was able to manage
very comfortably. His first book of
stories, lhe Tramp, was published in
1936, when he was 25. Since then he
has turned out The Courtship of Uncle
Henry, The Gambling Ghost, Ironbark
Bill and a novel, Jimmy Brockett. Dal
returned to these parts early this year,
has been living in Tasmania, but is now
back in Sydney. Angus and Robertson
are bringing out a new collection of his
stories, The Scholarly Mouse, in Novem-
ber, and a new novel, The Wide Arch,
will be published next year. He is a mine
of information on the freelance market
in Britain and America.
• • -
To Singapore as Australia’s Assistant
Trade Commissioner, R. W. (Bob)
Holberton. The job should be to his liking
—he knows selling and he knows the
East. Born in Brisbane of Irish-Devon-
shire strains and educated at Brisbane
Grammar, he joined the R.A.A.F. and
won an observer’s wing in Canada. He
kept Hudsons on track around the U.K. ;
then flew to Africa and India. In India
during the building-up for the British push
back to Burma, he was set to work select-
ing and laying-out sites for-airfields. On
this job Holberton covered thousands of
hot Indian miles and learned much about
what lies behind Oriental market-places.
1 he work brought him a squadron-leader’s
bars. In 1944 he was back in Britain,
where he married an Ayrshire girl whose
tongue still has a good quota of
Lowland burr. After the war Holberton
joined the sales staff of Lever Brothers in
Brisbane and promotion was again
quick—city-traveller, Darling Downs rep.,
N. S. Wales sales chief.
• •
“Maitri”: Tasmanian - born tenor
Raymond McDonald hit the headlines
when the sudden indisposition of Ronald
Dowd gave him the part of the Moor to
the Desdemona of Joan Hammond in
the Elizabethan Trust Opera Company’s
production of “Otello.” Acclaimed for
his handling of the part, McDonald was
by no means a tyro as an opera-singer.
After gaining places in Australia’s
Amateur Hour, in the A.B.C. Concerto
and Vocal Competition and in the Mobil
Quest, he sang for some time with both
the Victorian and the N.S.W. National
Opera Companies.
As a five-year-old he sang a solo at
a Sunday-school anniversary at Ulver-
stone, on Tasmania’s north-west coast,


but before he gained celebrity status he
worked on milk-runs, was employed as
a message-boy and as an apprentice-
carpenter and served for years in the
Navy.
Now the critics (press and otherwise)
are predicting world-fame for him.
However naturally gifted a singer may
be he will not get far without sound
vocal training, and it is refreshing to hear
the tributes McDonald pays his teacher,
Gwen Selva, well known a couple of
decades ago for the artistic quality of
her many recitals; quite a few Aus-
tralians, too, can recall her memorable
performances as Gilda and as Marguerite
and in other famous roles at London’s
Old Vic. Among her teachers were the
great lieder-singer Elena Gerhardt and
the delectable Maggie Teyte. McDonald
is keen to continue working to Gwen
Selva’s guidance for at least another two
years before going abroad.
• •
#
Harold Hooper wanted to be a sailor,
but was persuaded to settle for a job in
the shipping-department of Elder, Smith
and Co. Now he’s the firm’s shipping-
superintendent for Australia, Most of his
business life has been spent in Elder’s
Westralian branch, where he was a
Fremantle Harbors Trust Commissioner,
several times chairman of the Overseas
Shipping Representatives Association and
(during World War 11) Deputy-
Director of Shipping and Ministry of War
Transport rep. In Adelaide since 1953,
he is now S.A. chairman of Overseas and
HAROLD HOOPER
Interstate Shipping Companies. He hasn’t
been entirely shorebound, but his trips
to England, Malaya and around the Aus-
tralian coast have always been as a
passenger; they include two ocean
journeys with the First A.I.F. Nowadays
he usually travels by air.
“Mick o’ Melbourne”: Because of
poorish health Rabbi Jacob Danglow,
C.M.G., 0.8. E., is retiring after 52 years
as minister of the St. Kilda Hebrew
congregation. Born in London 77 years
ago,. and educated at Jews College, he
came to Melbourne in 1905, and, apart
from service as a chaplain in two World
Wars, he has remained here ever since.
In addition to work in his own com-
munity, he was a vice-president of the
Deaf and Dumb Institution for many
years, and his interests have also included
Scouting, Rotary and Freemasonry. He
holds the rank of Past Deputy Grand
Master of the Victorian Constitution, and
is a Past Principal of the' Royal Arch
Chapter. It is his hope while on the
retired list to continue with many of his
activities. Ministers of all churches in
the district turned up recently at a meet-
ing of the St. Kilda Council, at which
Rabbi Danglow was' presented with an
illuminated address —a fitting tribute to
a good citizen.
, • •
“K.R.”: A Brisbane engineer, Sydney
Schubert, still on the right side of 30,
has won a bursary for a year’s study of
highway-engineering and traffic prob'ems
at Durham University, England. The
International Road Federation provides
the bursary, and Schubert had to face
international competition to win it.
Graduating from Queensland University
in 1950 with a civil-engineering degree and
first-class honors, he’s been doing research
and planning with Queensland’s Main
Roads Department.
• •
From “H.H.,” in London: It is not
unusual for theatre-folk to assume a
name other than their own, but it is
rare for one of them to appear profes-
sionally under two different names.
Lawrence Lott, born 34 years ago on a
Tasmanian farm, alternates between
grand opera, under his real name, and
playing leads, as Laurie Payne, in musical
comedy. If a certain German opera
director had not died on the eve of the
signing of a contract, Lawrence would
have been singing at Bremen. Instead,
he’s playing Alexander Obolski in “Oh,
My Papa!” A forbidding part to cast:
“You need to be Caruso, Cinquevalli,
Fred Astaire, Chaliapine and Laurence
Olivier rolled into one.”
After the R.A.A.F., Melbourne Con-
servatorium and the National Opera
Company, he studied for a year in Italy
and was soon to find engagements in
London. From “Billy Budd” at the
Garden he went to Her Majesty’s for
“Paint Your Wagon,” and then was
chosen for the lead in “The Water
Gipsies.” He still talks about Sir Alan
Herbert’s Boatrace party, with fellow-
guests as dissimilar as Lord Montgomery
and Charlie Chaplin.
He married the stage-manager, a
Cheshire girl. Olivier phoned her one
day and said, “If you can manage one
Australian you can manage seven.” Now
she’s in backstage charge of “The Doll.”
His most thrilling experience singing
Amonasro in “Aida” opposite Marjorie
Lawrence. Is virile, zestful, down-to-
earth, and looking forward to returning
home “later on”—doubtless when engage-
ments permit.
• •
Richard Beynon, whose play “The
Shifting Heart” will be put on by the
Elizabethan Theatre on Friday (October
4) in Sydney, is, like the author of the
now-famous “Doll,” an actor. He’s from
Melbourne, was in J. C. Williamson’s
“Kiss and. Tell” before going to England
RICHARD BEY NON
in late 1946, and, now 29, has seen 34
countries and had considerable stage
experience. A newspaper-clipping, sent
to him in England, about the suicide of a
migrant in Melbourne was the genesis
of the play, which is set in a Melbourne
suburb and is centred around an Italian
family’s adjustment to our soil. The
play won first-prize in the Sydney
Journalist Club competition, 1956, and
third-prize in the London “Observer”
competition. Alec Guiness, one of the
judges in the “Observer” competition, was
particularly taken With it, and already
several offers for the play have come
from overseas —six from England, two
from America, and one each from
Germany and Holland. Beynon is
currently working on another play (also
inspired by a newspaper-cutting), set
in the N.S.W. North Coast.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 59, jeweller Sam Lands. Badly
wounded in World War I, he gave widely to
charity, supported ex-Servicemen’s organisations
and had many sporting interests.
At Bath (Eng.), at 77, William Ferguson
(“Fergie”), famous in the cricket world as
scorer, baggage-man and general factotum for
over 50 years to touring Test-teams from his
native Australia and from just about every other
cricketing country. In 1951 he was awarded
B.E.M. for his services to cricket. His auto-
biography, Mr. Cricket, was reviewed on the
Red Page (B. 18/9/’57).
In Sydney, at 81, Joseph Hartland, of the
well-known photo-engraving firm Hartland and
Hyde.
In Perth, at 83, Harman Willoughby Lance,
former Westralian Government Apiculturist.
With the A.I.F. in World War I.
In Sydney, at 86, Russell Charles Rox-
burgh, solicitor with the bowler-hat and kindly
manner; a stalwart of the Pioneers’ Club.
In Brisbane, at 57, Inspector Roy Gordon
Walker, officer-in-charge of Petrie Terrace
police-training depot.


ABORIGINAHTIES
THE Religious Editcfr- may be gratified
•*- to learn that the Northern Territory
buffalo which are going to Borneo are not
all destined for feasting . . . some are
to be instruments in the suppression of
caper-cutting teenagers. The Dyaks
live communally in “long-houses,”
and to keep the young bucks in order
codes of behavior towards the saronged
sex are clearly defined, with penalties to
discourage any breaches. Any brash lad
“Stop barking !”
offering a drag on his cigarette to a girl
not his sister can cop a fine of one
chicken ; he can be mulcted one pig if he
forgets the rules and romantically drops
a frangipani-blossom down the back
of her sarong. In the should-be sleeping-
hours of the “long-house,” where the
sexes occupy opposite sides and are “feet
to feet,” if he is caught playing footies
with his opposite-number, he, for his
serious breach of decorum, is slugged one
buffalo. —“Sevenelms.”
* * * *
“Ringer”: Whatever put it into
“Wippegong’s” head (B. 14/8/’57) that
Jimmy Tyson was a snooping slave-
driver? That long and lean bushman
knew what work was ; he insisted on a
return for his wages ; but he was no
sneak. He set an example. If his men
wouldn’t keep up with him they ceased
to be his men. Good men swore' by
Jimmy Tyson ; loafers swore at him. He
detested waste—in labor or in money. He
liked to make use of the last portion.
As an instance: One day he was having
lunch with one of the Lethbridges, of
Forest Home—an old pastoral family.
He remarked to Lethbridge: “You’ll
never be a rich man, Lethbridge. You
waste too much. It takes twice as much
to feed you as it does to satisfy me.” They
were each eating a bunch of grapes. “See,
Lethbridge,” he continued, and
exemplified his point: “You spit out the
seeds and the skin of the grapes. I eat
the lot.” In spite of that, Jimmy fed his
men well. He held, and rightly so, that
it was false economy to pay a man for
his work and then stint his rations to such
an extent that he wasn’t able to work well.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Although they are popu-,
larly known as “gumleaf-players,” actually
few abos. who make music from a leaf
held between the lips use gumleaves.
Much preferred are the leaves of the
wild-lemon, Moreton Bay fig or camphor-
laurel, which have a bigger surface-area.
* * * *
“Ovis”: Sally, a 24-year-old crossbred
ewe, though black, and worthless long
since, is still profitable to her Wimmera
(Vic.) owner. This year she cut 121 b. of
wool, and ever since she was bought as a
two-tooth in Naracoorte (S.A.) saleyard
she has consistently produced twin
lambs.
*** --*
“Q. Ree” (Fiji): Our wide Mba River is
spanned by a long, narrow bridge, on
which traffic is not allowed to overtake
or pass. An Indian rode a horse on to
the bridge. He had gone only a few yards
when a motorist drove over from the
other side. The Indian refused to turn
back. Likewise the motorist. Then they
could not as others drove up behind them.
Soon there were two long opposing lines
of vehicles, separated by the horseman,
and the air rang with argument in several
languages. Eventually the police arrived,
debated the problem, and made all
vehicles facing the horserider reverse well
off the bridge! Then the rider, followed
by his cortege, rode slowly and trium-
phantly across.
* * * *
Years ago, on the backwater
of our dam there used to grow a plant
which we knew as nardoo. The drab
green leaves, rather like a • four-leafed
clover in shape, floated on top of the
water on long, threadlike stems. Our
horses loved it; almost every afternoon
saw them wading knee-deep feeding on
the leaves. In dry times the plant shrank
to a dry moss clinging to the hoof-marks
in the dried mud. Have never come
across the stuff since, but am told it is a
Marsilea, one of the nardoo family, the
spores of which the blacks used to grind
for flour. Our species had clusters of
tiny brown spores under the leaves, but it


IF TENNIS TANTRUMS SPREAD TO CRICKET...


would take vast quantities to make a
worth-while amount of flour. Did the
blacks really use the spores, or was it the
roots they ground?
* * * *
“Roger Mike”: In the controversy
about the nutrition of Westralian natives
one case was quoted of a 10-year-old
who weighed only 421 b.—less, it was said,
than the informant’s 18-month-old son.
Health-clinics give the average weight
for an infant of that age as between
23|lb. and 271 b. I have known 10-year-
old white boys who weighed around the
three-stone mark on a normal diet and
were quite healthy. In any case it isn’t the
age-weight ratio that the experts consider ;
in such studies they compare the measure-
ment around the chest with that around
the upper arm. This gives a reliable
putritional index, and some such system
" You cant get near her since Dior came out with the sack-look !”
should be able to decide whether our
natives are sufficiently fed or not.
» * * *
“Villefair”: Can’t help “Macann” as
to why the term “nailrod” was applied to
tobacco in the old days (B. 11/9/’57),
but “boggabri” is abo. for “many creeks,”
not “pumpkins.” “Fifty-niners” were
undoubtedly old gold-rush miners, just
as in America a “forty-niner” was an old-
timer from the ’49 rush. At a guess I’d
say a “long colonial” was synonymous
with a “long-sleever,” which was a man-
sized drop o’ beer. And a “brammer”
chook was a Brahma —a very heavy
table-bird with feathered legs. Utility
birds combining a fair egg-output with a
good body-size have ousted the Brahma
these days, but a few are still bred for
show-purposes.
* * * *
“Splodger”: The safest place for sheep
in a bushfire is in a mob and in a corner
of a paddock—which is contrary to old-
time beliefs. But there never was a
corner yet in which there were not sheep-
pads, which thin the grass ; heavy foliage
is needed to make a fire strong enough to
burn sheep. Moreover, it is easier to
hold them in a corner than anywhere
else. And a mob means safety—the fire
dies under their trampling trotters. It
is when sheep are strung out in units that
the fire gets an open go at them.
* * * *
“Ninda”: Regarding dog-immunity to
snakebite, I tender the explanation of
a medical-science researcher who paid
our Peninsula (Cape York) a visit.
Snake-killing dogs, he said, usually make
a habit of it, unless the dog gets killed
in the very early stages. Probably, early
in the piece, the dog gets himself a
glancing bite without overmuch venom.
His blood reacts with antibodies to quell
the invader, and this allows the dog to
stand a greater dose next time, and so on
until immunity is reached. Should a
young pup be bitten his life would
probably be saved with the injection of a
few ccs. of the blood of the old immune
dog. This would be only a temporary
measure, however, and Master Pup would
receive no permanent immunity.
■f’
“Far-North”: Having always called
myself a Queens/cmder and scorned the
Queensl’nd of the radio-men, I slowly
became reconciled not only to this but
also to bushl’nds, parkl’nds and even
wastel’nds. Still, when our news-
announcer proclaimed, “Here are the
head-l’n’s,” I had to sit back and work it
out.
* * * *
“Noore”: At Alice Downs, Blackall
(Q.), there is a plaque in the shearing-
shed telling of Jackie Howe’s record tally,
321 with the blades. His son calls his
property “321,” and a Whippet car which
passed through his hands had a traffic-
plate which finished with those numerals.
Incidentally, it was that same car in the
upholstery of which a lucky fellow
found £17,000 after he had bought it in
its old age for £3O. Howe bought a new
truck recently, and the terminal-numbers
on the plate are —yes, you’ve guessed it I
• * * *
“Simon”: That same S. T. Gill who
was at Bully Hayes’s marriage-party, and
afterwards became “the artist of the
Victorian goldfields” (B. 4/9/’57), pulled
some artistic boners (some of his canvases
have been reproduced in Fifty Famous
Australians). He gave a mob of bullocks
all uniform handle-bar horns, whereas
actually they run in all shapes. In his
picture “YVool Drays,” drawn by
bullocks, he shows a heavy load balanced
on the yokes of shafters —an impossible
proceeding. For wool or other heavy
loading four-wheel wagons were needed
to take the weight off the horses’ backs.
Again, he shows a bullocky wielding
a long contrivance like a bamboo fishing-
rod that would not be flexible enough to
deal with offsiders. The real bullock-
whip had a five-foot handle fitted with
a keeper and greenhide thong and fall,
and sometimes a cracker when Bullocky
Bill wished to wake the echoes.
* * * •
“S.S.”: It was a South Aussie police-
sergeant named Kohler who, in pursuit
ol his task of giving road-safety hints to
the kids, cast-up at a small bush school
and introduced himself to the teacher.
Chalkie grinned and said “It's a wonder
we haven’t got together before.” “How’s
that?” asked the sergeant. “Well,” said
Chalkie, “my name happens to be
Coker! ”
THE WORLD OUTSIDE
Smooth as a ship that takes
A silken sea I ride
Into the half-forgotten world
Of earth and sky outside.
Nothing there is too small,
Too large to hold and press
Deep, deep into the warm cocoon
Of my new-born consciousness.
White hens with scarlet combs
Treading the roadside grass;
Tatters of gold on totem-trees;
Clouds splintered like mirror-glass ;
And. startling as a shout,
A yucca late in flower.
Lifting on high pale bell on bell,
A trembling carven tower.
O •tree of ivory!
O image of delight!
A warm effulgence now will fill
The darkest depths of night.
For beauty’s shape ensnared
In a moment’s joy lives on
/Is the song of a bird stays in the air
When the song is done.
victoria.
MYRA MORRIS.


“R.A.McC.”: Touching on “A 1 Pal’s”
query about the originals of various
“Banjo” Paterson characters (B. 11/9/’57),
I knew the poet intimately, extending
over many years; his father and my
father were close personal friends, and I
think I have copies of everything he ever
had published. “Banjo” very seldom used
the name of any known living character,
but it is quite possible the footballer
referred to by “A 1 Pal” was the man he
had in mind, although “Banjo” spelt the
name differently. As far as I know the
only other living characters were those in
“T.Y.5.0.N.,” “Tommy Corrigan,” “How
Gilbert Died” and “Only a Jockey”—
“The Man from Snowy River,” “The
Man from Ironbark,” “Saltbush Bill,”
“Mulga Bill,” “Clancy of the Overflow”
and “Magennis Magee” and many others
were all mythical. “Banjo” used many
place-names, such as “The Castlereagh,”
“Dandaloo,” etc., but he did not always
confine his writings to the locality men-
tioned, especially with “The Overflow,”
which he frequently used in many places.
“J.M.”: Residents of the Corryong
(Upper Murray) district swear to Jack
Riley’s having been “The Man from
Snowy River.” I heard his life-story from
bushman and farmer Herb Barlee, whose
property is at the top of the Swampy
Plains River valley. During the early
’nineties Paterson visited Walter and Peter
Mitchell at Bringenbrong, and while there
heard from them stories of Riley and
some of his daredevil mates who used to
run in wild horses from the ranges and
break them in for sale. It is believed in
the district that “The Man from Snowy
River” is a fusion of several of these
characters, but with Riley predominating.
Riley is buried in the Corryong cemetery,
and the spot is marked by an unusual
headstone, erected by Tom Mitchell. A
granite cylinder about three - feet in
diameter, it was one of the capping-stones
left over after the construction of the
bridge over the Murray at Jingellic. It
bears a small marble tablet, with the
inscription:
In Memory of
THE MAN FROM
“SNOWY RIVER”
MACK RILEY
Buried here
16th July 1914.
* * * *
“Tabba”: Notice recently removed
from a creek on the Bruce Highway be-
tween Marlborough and Sarina (Q.): “If
this board is submerged move back to
high ground.”
LITERARY DOGS
Abo. paragraphers and others have told
from time to time fruity little tales about
dogs—l recall in particular one that used
to be a favorite with Frank Tate, out-
standing Director of Education in Victoria
in his day—but curiously in a country
that’s devoted to the outdoor dog, rela-
tively few extended yarns have been
achieved.
Twenty-three years ago Dorothy
Cottrell (who died recently in U.S.A.)
had published in England a charming
“See what I mean? With coconuts half the size of mine he’s
got all the customers."
doggy tale termed Winks, and more
recently lon Idriess wrote in Horrie the
Wog-Dog a full-dress yarn of a stray pup
that served with Australian troops in the
Middle East. Those are the only two
dog-books of Aussie origin known to me,
and I have them alongside Sir Percy
Fitzpatrick’s African classic of 1907 and
later, Jock of the Bushveld.
In the shorter category there are the
products of two eminent naturalists of
other days, E. J. Banfield’s “Dogs That
Have Been” (in Last Leaves from Dunk
Island ) and Donald Macdonald’s
“Nobody’s Dog” (in The Brooks of Morn-
ing), and, of course, Henry Lawson’s
“Loaded Dog,” “That There Dog of
Mine,” and “Two Dogs and a Fence.”
Lawson’s sketches are well known;
those of Banfield and Macdonald much
less familiar than they should be —enter-
taining and endearing tales both, they
ought to have places in every prose
anthology in the land. Moreover, we
shouldn’t lose sight of Dasher, the faith-
ful hound of Crete whose story was told
in Active Service (1942), a book written
by the Australian Forces in the Middle
East.
Since all those sketches belong to
earlier decades, I was beginning to lament
the current lack of appreciations in kind.
Accordingly, I rejoiced recently to find
Sir John Medley rallying to the cause, in
the Melbourne “Age,” with a modern
contribution, “A Dog and His Master’s
Voice —on Television,” a diverting
account of how the household pooch pro-
tested violently when he beheld and heard
his' boss on TV.
Incidentally, has any scribe, American
or Australian, ever given a spot of
biography to Vicksburg, the nondescript
doggie that was smuggled by Yank troops
from Vicksburg (Mississippi) to Australia
in 1942, and, after serving as a battery
mascot, was sent to the canine heaven at
the age of two years through colliding
with a truck at Southport (Q.)?
Vicky, it is true, is commemorated by a
quite handsome stone-memorial (beside a
road near Tambourine Mountain, where
his men were camped), but he ought to be
on printed record, so ranking with those
other four-legged Army camp-followers,
Horrie and Dasher of the Middle East.
PHIL ANTHUS.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
SETBACK IN SHARES
TTHE crash on the Australian
Stock Exchanges on Sep-
tember 24 was due to a number
of factors, one of which was
the speculative undertone of
the market itself, but Sydney
brokers spoke freely of the
publicity given the day before
to the drought conditions in
many parts of rural Australia
as being an outstanding factor
in the wave of selling.
In view of the fact that
much sharemarket support has
been coming from the wool-
grower, to talk of drought is to
talk in his language; and it
could be that drought-talk
crystallised in his mind a
picture that had been taking
shape for some time. Drought
rather points the need for ready
money by the man-on-the-land.
But it is most unlikely that
drought, however serious a
prolonged one would be to the
Australian economy (already
dry weather has seriously
affected wheat prospects), was
the principal factor in sharp
reverse in the market last week.
More likely it was a reaction
from the continuing rise that
has taken place in front-line
stocks this year, and the low
yield (for several years ahead)
that is indicated from the
holding of most of them.
The Bulletin has attempted
to analyse the £35-million rise
in B.H.P. shares over the past
six months and the low return
that shareholders are likely to
receive pursuant to the
dividend-policy outlined by the
company’s chairman. This
highlights some of the weak-
nesses of the entire market—
the overpricing, in terms of
dividend-income, of many lead-
ing industrials, and the long
wait that will be needed to
justify them should market
prices return to a rational
“yield-and-prospects” basis.
In the crash on September
23-24 B.H.P. sold as low as
545., compared with a “high”
of 60s. recently. On September
26 there was recovery to 565.
But on the 27th there was a
weakening again.
At present prices there can
be no assurance of stability for
these highly-priced stocks in
view of the fact that there are
very few grounds for believing
that the market itself can justify
higher prices for the leaders
as a whole. When speculative
interest wanes a market is in-
clined to drop back rather than
stay stable. The speculator is
not interested in a static market.
Something that seems bound
to affect investment prices in
Australia during the next few
years is a shortage of capital
which is likely to grow more
acute.
It has been said overseas
recently that international
capital may not be so readily
available as hitherto, and if
that is the case Australia may
have to depend even more on
its own resources.
Put in another way, that
seems to indicate, under a
domestic money policy which
aimed at countering inflation
and diverting funds to essential
production-plant and public
works, that money will not
readily become cheaper, and
that the person with money to
invest will be able to pick and
choose his investments and
ask a higher yield.
Obviously, too, a great deal
will depend on the course of
wool prices this year, since
our wool-cheque has always
been a great help in providing
international funds that would
not otherwise be available.
As balance-sheets to June 30
continue to come out there is
bound to be movement in
share-prices something on the
lines of an army tattoo —some
going forward, others back-
wards. But it could quite con-
ceivably and logically —be
that stocks going forward are
good second-liners which have
shown the quality of their
management over the past 12
months, and that the glamor-
stocks of the past few months
will Be those coming back.
insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK. Manager.
ANGRY IMPORTERS
'T’HE traditional importer in
Australia, on the voices,
seems to be getting a crazy
deal from the Department of
Trade.
“Forget about your conscience , son—look on it as a case
of private enterprise versus State monopoly .”
An indication of this is to
be gathered from the fact that
the term “traditional importer”
itself has significance in the
terminology of the department,
and a “traditional importer” is
entitled to certain considera-
tions. But though a merchant
may have been an importer
of a particular commodity for
the past 50 years (except one),
he can be excluded from the
“traditional” category if the
year in which he did not import
is the one selected by the
department as the vital one.
This is quoted as an example
of the peculiar departmental
rule-of-thumb which so fre-
quently operates.
Natural justice seems in the
department to be overborne by
this rule-of-thumb.
Astonishing anomalies are
arising already from the
resumption of trade with Japan
on a most - favored - nation
basis. One would have expected
that the traditional trader with
Japan fin pre-war years would
have good standing with the
Department of Trade as regards
quota.
But this is not so. Quite the
reverse, in fact. Under the
circumlocution of the depart-
ment’s highly paid and multi-
tudinous officials, the people
who are copping the trade with
Japan are those who dealt with
countries other than Japan
during certain post-war years.
They can switch their trade
to Japan on quotas established
in respect of, say, France during
the past few years, when little
or no trade with Japan was
permissible, and when, con-
sequently, the trader with
Japan was unable to establish
a direct quota.
Some of the worst cases of
this occur in A-category goods,
which are supposed to bo
essential to the existence of the
Australian economy.
It will be admitted by all that
to administer, import-licensing
successfully firmness is neces-
sary. But a high degree of
efficiency, as well as a broad
background of the problems of
industry as well as of the
national* economy, is also
needed. It would appear that
these two essentials are usually
conspicuous by their absence.
Time and time again The
Bulletin has heard of some
small or medium-sized trader
having to provide the depart-
ment with the usual detailed
and elaborate returns in
order to establish a basis for
his claim to a quota or an
increased quota, only to find
that the man he dealt with last
week has now been transferred
to some other section and the
file has been mislaid. So the
whole case has had to be set
out again—and maybe again
and again. This, let it be
repeated, seems to be almost a
tradition of the department—-
the Department of Lost Returns
and Blind Alleys.


•fm,
mm
I
jS|
W
m
KM
\vv\v
all
LYSAGMT
RURAL PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY
/
i
mt -
Vour own
grain storage
saves time-money
• Heavy gauge galvanized steel sheets
« Easily erected permanent
• Rodent and weatherproof
• Hinged type bag holder
on 1000-8500 Bushel Silos
• Steel earth rings and
w loading platforms are
available as extras if
♦ required
• Prompt delivery
mm
& LTSAGHT
Crain “
EARTH RING
An earth ring, which is an extra
ring of corrugated steel sheets
filled with earth or sand, is a
most effective and economical
method of erecting on elevated
base for your Lysaght Silo. The
use of an ea'th ring reduces the
risk of unoerground seepage.
Full details are available on
request. v
augers
A completely new type grain
auger is now available to fill
and empty Lysaght Silos.
Write tor further information to:
JOHN LYSA6HT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. in all Capital Cities or
LYSAGKT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE WORK?
S2SAC
Whatever the reason, it is a
fact that import-licensing, as
administered, seems to have
had the result of creating in
business a class of spivs, go-
betweens and newly-fledged
importers who are having a
much happier run than many of
the men who know their busi-
ness and their products
infinitely better than the
Johnnie-come-lately who has
developed more as a speculator
and a contact-man than a
merchant. The amount of
time wasted by Australian
industry in coping with import
problems seems to bear a
direct relation to the growth
in the staff and payroll of the
department.
A huge amount of importing
is still being <jone on the “rake-
off” basis. Some newcomer to
the importing field has neither
the resources nor the organisa-
tion to handle all the quota he
has somehow managed to
acquire, so he imports for a
merchant who is short of quota
only. For this service he gets
his rake-off —usually a sub-
stantial percentage on the cost
of the goods, thus adding to
the general price - inflation
within Australia.
The Import-licensing Review
Board has already done a good
deal to rectify departmental
injustices in individual cases.
But the fact that so many
injustices demand rectification
is a pointer to the chaos that
exists in import-control, and to
bitterness —sometimes cold fury
—that exists among traditional
importers.
CRYING-OUT FOR CAPITAL
/~\VER the past 20 years (it
takes a decade or two for
major economic and political
trends to work themselves out)
The Bulletin has addressed
itself rather persistently to the
matters of costs, inflation,
productivity and the lack of
capital and capital-equipment
in Australia.
All these matters are closely
related to each other, but each
has been in the public eye as a
“separate” problem at different
times.
While costs and inflation are
still major problems, at the
present time Australia’s lack of
capital, and its inadequate pro-
ductivity, are more in the public
eye than hitherto.
Limited Overseas Help
This is especially so when
reports from overseas are con-
sidered. These are to the effect
that international capital is
unlikely to be so readily avail-
able in the future, which means
that Australia will need to
create more of its own capital
if it is to carry out the develop-
ment so badly needed in this
country.
Both Australia and New
Zealand are in urgent need
of capital for private enterprise
and for public works, most
particularly for the purpose of
increasing national produc-
tivity and for facilitating trans-
port.
Australia in particular is a
big country with extensive
public works required to cater
for its widespread population.
It has very big transport
problems, with long hauls made
more costly by inefficiency and
trade-union nonco-operation.
Yet efficient transport is
almost as necessary to the
national economy as efficient
production.
Youth and Capital
A new enterprise or a new
country usually needs some
borrowed capital to start-off
with. Nearly every new busi-
ness has a bank-overdraft. But
if it is well-run and business
conditions are reasonable it
starts making profits and
creating its own capital.
Australia had the help of
considerable borrowed capital
during the 1920’5. It has had
the help of further overseas
capital since World War 11. It
has attracted private capital as
well as loans from the World
Bank and from national-institu-
tions in other countries. But
it has by no means been able to
find, from all sources —domestic
or foreign—enough capital to
carry-out the plans necessary
to cope with the demand for
increased productivity and
better transport.
Creating Our Own Capital
It is clear that in Australia
and New Zealand we have to
give more attention to the
creation of capital by our own
efforts. And the more capital
we create ourselves, the easier
will it be to attract capital from
overseas.
For capital is like that. The
more you have, the easier it is
to create it yourself and to
attract it.
Which brings us to the ques-
tion, What is capital?
Capital is an accumulation
of undistributed profits, uncon-
sumed earnings and other
savings—personal, institutional,
governmental.
Production creates capital,
personal consumption reduces
the rate of its creation. A high
standard-of-living does not
necessarily mean a high rate of
capital-creation. It may mean
the contrary —a high rate ot
consumption if a high level of
capital-creation has not already
been established.
A high rate of personal con-
sumption means that less pro-
duction —or productivity —is
left for capital purposes.
Capital and Living-standards
Australia is in the position
of never having reached the


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony oi Hong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £19,800,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 813 1 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
An intimate portrait of
HER MAJESTY
THE QUEEN
She’s intensely devoted to her
family yet dedicated to her
inexpressibly difficult job. What
sort of person is this young
woman? Just what is her
character? How does she act?
October Reader’s Digest gives
you an intimate pen portrait
of Queen Elizabeth 11, now
making a state visit to the
United States and Canada.
Also in your October Reader’s
Digest there’s a host of inter-
esting- and informative articles,
including How a car is born,
Eye care up to date and Near
life, near death, near God. Enjoy
October Reader’s Digest, on
sale now only 2/- at all
newsagents and bookstalls.
stage of high indigenous capital-
creation as in the more
advanced countries overseas.
On the other hand it has estab-
lished, as a fetish, a theory of
high living-standards which
has impeded our independent
creation of capital on a scale
commensurate with our needs.
Australia and New Zealand
can in no sense afford the 40-
hour week when each country
is so short of capital. In order
to compete with the tooling-up
of more mature countries we
should be working more hours
each week than they do until
our mechanisation is equal to
theirs in terms of population.
And because of the under-
developed nature of its wide-
spread resources, and its high
migrant intake, Australia at
present is in need of a particu-
larly high rate of capital-
development.
“Social Security”
On top of a lag in produc-
tivity that places us at the
mercy of fluctuations in the
terms - of - trade —that is, our
export prices compared with
our import costs —Australia has
gone in for an elaborate system
of social security. This accele-
rates the rate of consumption
compared with the rate of
production, and makes the
surplus available as capital even
less than it would be merely
from a state of inadequate
productivity.
In short, there are so many
charges of a consumer nature
made on the inadequate pool of
productivity that the problem
of deriving a sufficient supply
of capital from the same pool
has become quite out of the
question.
The problem with which we
are now faced is becoming
increasingly acute. In the
simplest of terms it calls for
greater production and more
savings for capital purposes—
for more diligence and greater
thrift, to use the more homely
terms of another age.
Germany and Russia
It is significant . that the
countries which suffered most
destruction in World War II
Germany and Russia are
today probably the countries
most diligently building-up their
capital resources. Japan is
running them very close, of
course, and if it did not suffer
the same war-damage as the
other two, it was one of the
defeated nations of that war.
The United States is well
ahead of any other country
of the world in industrial terms,
but it had a long start both in
the development of natural
resources and in the achieve-
ment of industrial know-how.
With the exception of
Canada, which is surrounded
by special economic circum-
stances and a close relationship
with the U.S.A., the rest of thev
English-speaking world has
been too inclined to relax in
the comforting view that it won
the war and as a result was
entitled to some sort of a “new
order,” with emphasis on leisure
and “social security.”
In adhering to this view British
Commonwealth countries
have been left behind in
economic rehabilitation and
expansion because a harder
view of economic realities has
been taken in such countries
as Western Germany and
Japan.
Effect on Investment
The Australian investor is
sure to note the effect of our
capital-shortage more acutely
in the near future. Australian
Governments and taxation
authorities have given little
heed to the problems of capital-
erosion through inadequate
depreciation-allowances. And
incorporated industries are
finding it necessary to retain
more tax-paid profits in order
to finance plant-replacement
and -additions.
This need for capital has
cramped B.H.P.’s dividend-
style for many years past. It is
having the same effect on the
distributions to shareholders in
many other expanding com-
panies.
Apart from inadequate pro-
ductivity, one of the deterrents
to the creation of capital has
been lack of incentive to save.
The chief discouragement to
saving has been the effect of
inflation on the investment of
saving. And though ordinary
shares in industrial companies
have not shown quite the
same disastrous record as
fixed-interest securities, the
average investor has fared
badly indeed over the past 20
years.
Capital today is not only a
matter of domestic politics ; as
the U.S. and Russia are showing
in their foreign economic
policy, it is international politics
as well.
Ampol’s New Grease-plant
OFFICIALLY opened last
Wednesday by N.S.W.
Minister for Labor and
Industry J. J. Maloney, the new
Ampol grease-plant at Balmain,
Sydney, is claimed by the
company to be capable of
supplying more than 50 per
cent, of Australia’s grease
requirements. It will con-
centrate on the production of
multi-purpose grease which is
designed to replace all the co.’s
specialised greases at present
used for transport, agriculture
and industry.
The plant, which was
designed by Mead Cornell, an
American designer of automatic
processing-equipment for oils
and greases, is fully automatic
and has been brought into
initial production under the
supervision of Gerthel French,
lubricants-consultant to Union
Pacific Railways.
Ampol’s managing-director,
W. G. Walkley, describes the
new plant as “a compact
integrated machine of revolu-
tionary design, which insofar
as efficiency is concerned, is
matched only by a somewhat
similar plant operating in
Toronto, Canada.” Although
the design is American, 95 per
cent, of the equipment was
manufactured in Australia.
It is claimed that the new
greases produced at the plant
will give greater water-resist-
ance ; high-temperature bear-
ing performance; low-
temperature “pumpability” ;
greater chemical and
mechanical stability ; increased
resistance to oxidation ; com-
plete protection against rust
and corrosion.
They are supplied in two
types—one with a lithium base,
designed to meet “all normal
lubrication needs,” and one
with a bentone base, described
as “a non-melt grease for use
wherfe continuous operating
temperatures exceed 350° F.”
At a demonstration at the
opening of the plant visitors
saw samples of both greases
suspended in water which was
boiling furiously without any
apparent effect on the sample.
Another test simulated condi-
tions in a wheel-bearing of a
vehicle doing 60 m.p.h, for
6 hours ; there was no apparent
melting. At the other extreme
a grease-gun encased in iced
pumped the grease with ease.
Associated Freney Oilfields
THRILLING and field opera-
tions cost Associated
Freney a total of £150,335 last
term, general administrative
costs amounting to £22,966.
After allowing for sundry
income (£3241) and a capital-
profit of £1563, the p. and 1.
debit increased by £168,497
over the year to £500,548.
Last term the co. took-up
1,000,000 ss. shares in Papuan
Apinaipi Petroleum, and, in
addition, made arrangements
for the sale of its National 55
drilling-rig to the co.
Associated Freney holds
permits to prospect for
petroleum over areas totalling
570 sq. miles in the Fitzroy
Basin (W.A.), and, in addition,
has taken over a permit cover-
ing 12,000 sq. miles in the
Carpentaria district previously
held by Associated Australian
Oilfields.
At the end of the term
(March 31 last) the co. owed
sundry creditors £23,759 and
had £222,394 in current assets
(cash, etc., £110,815; stores,
£91,613 : debtors, £19,966), and
£344,250 (cost) in fixed assets.
Investments, including
£53,000 in short-term deben-
tures and the Papuan Apinaipi
scrip (£100,000), then paid to
25., totalled £155,000, while
intangibles were shown at
£1,192,761.
Fully-paid vendor shares
account for £625,000 of the
co.’s £1,890,625 paid capital, the
balance being in 10s. shares
paid to 3s. 9d., the contribs.
currently fetching around lid.




Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO JOAO GONCALYES TIBERIO late
of 23 Palace Street Ashfield in the State
of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that CATERINA TIBERIO has filed
Petition for Divorce No. 1037 of 1957
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Sixteenth day of De-
cember 1957 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from K. G.
ALLARS, Solicitor, 162 Great North
Road, Five Dock, New South Wales,
or from his city agents, DENSLEY &
DOWNING, Solicitors, 149 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUG H A N,
Registrar.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursts
Portrait Prizes
After making news one week
with his portrait of Dame
Mary Gilmore, the next week
Dobell came swashbuckling
again into the N. S. Wales
National Gallery to win the
£l5OO first-prize in the “Aus-
tralian Women’s Weekly” com-
petition with his portrait of
Helena Rubinstein.
There is no doubt about his
power to arrest attention, with
the public as well as with judges
of competitions ; and. it can-
not be merely because he paints
what might conveniently be
called “shockers.” This exhibi-
tion is full of shockers of one
kind or another, from the
experimental to the comic ; but
no other portrait has the same
power not merely to arrest but
to hold attention.
It is indeed a fascinating
work, striking in its design (in
which some distortion is used
at once to give weight to the
body and distance and mystery
to the head), sumptuous in its
barbaric coloring of crimson
and black set off by the opaline
jewellery, and finally compel-
ling, as true portraiture should
be, by the sensitive painting of
the head and the absorbing
interest of the character
revealed in it.
The only point of doubt
about it, once you’ have
accepted the distortion of the
forearm, is a sort of veil, a mist,
a fuzziness which makes the
features rather difficult to get
at: a treatment exactly the
reverse of the clear statement
of the Mary Gilmore portrait.
Possibly it was a technical fail-
ing ; possibly it is intended to
convey the mists of time and
the tribe. It certainly adds to
the mysterious force of the
portrait.
The £5OO prize for the . best
painting by a woman was
deservedly won by Vilma
Kotrbova - Vrbo v a , from
Czechoslovakia, with an
intriguing portrait of a child in
somewhat turgid paint.
Among the rest of the 138
entries this commentator found
himself pausing longest before
the paintings by Frank
Hodgkinson and Phyl Water-
house ; noted with pleasure the
solidity of two portraits by
W. E. Pidgeon; and found
moments of quality in the
works by Charles Bush, Thora
Medhurst and John Rigby.
*l* ♦>
Twenty Melbourne Painters
The Twenty Melbourne
Painters who have been holding
their 39th annual exhibition
at the Athenaeum Gallery, Mel-
bourne, are, of course, not
precisely the same twenty who
held their first annual exhibi-
tion in the same gallery in
1918, but collectively there is
little to choose between the
work of the present score and
their predecessors.
This is not necessarily a dis-
advantage. Ron Crawford
applies Max Meldrum’s teach-
ing very skilfully to a self-
portrait, and George Colville’s
“Crisp Morning” has feeling,
while Elizabeth Colquhoun has
solid matter in her still-life
and portraits. Alma Figuerola
shows sensitiveness in “At the
Seashore, Phillip Island.”
❖ ❖ ,❖
The heaviness of paint in Elsa
Russell’s show at the Bissietta
Galleries, Sydney, suggests
greasepaint, and possibly that
is not inappropriate in an
exhibition largely concerned
with circus subjects. It is her
smaller lighter paintings that
Miss Russell does best, achiev-
ing a slight charm and hints
of character and atmosphere.
Her larger canvases are painty
rather than painterly.
Stage and Music
Infantine
In his current Sydney recitals
robust Italian tenor Luigi
Infantino is singing much the
same songs as he sang here a
couple of years ago — which
points-up his limited repertoire.
Even in the Italian opera in
which he specialises he rings
the changes on comparatively
few arias—Canio’s big outburst
ol grief and vengeance in
“Pagliacci”; the well-worn
“Questa O Quella” ; Federico’s
Lament from Cilea’s
“L’Arlesiana”; a handful of
Puccini and Donizetti; and a
few more. He offers nothing
from the greater Verdi of the
late operas.
He did include one Mozart
aria, the “Dalla Sua Pace”
from “Don.Giovanni,” but it
wasn’t a happy choice; the
special demands it makes on
delicacy and subtlety in inter-
pretation found Infantino’s
equipment overlarge for the
task. Also, in songs which call
for a smoothly flowing legato,
such as Bizet’s “Agnus Dei”
and Pergolesi’s “Nina,” the
phrasing left something to be
desired.
Those qualifications aside,
the tenor’s recitals have been
first-rate. He turns tremen-
dous power on and off as by a
tap, and he commands a tone
of singular beauty right along
the gamut. With programmes
consisting of about 90 per cent.
Italian operatic excerpts and
Neapolitan folksongs, his
popular success is assured.
No voice can hold an
audience so completely as a
robust tenor soaring up to high
C and swelling that note out to
a great climax. Infantino can
do that a couple of dozen times
a night and at encore-time is
still tearing strips off the welkin
" without any suggestion of dry-
ness or weariness.
“The Mikado”
Another season of Gilbert
and Sullivan started off to a
cheerful tempo af Her
Majesty’s, Melbourne, with
“The Mikado,” and with the
evergreen quips of the evergreen
Pooh-Bah expertly dropped
across the footlights by the
portly Richard Watson.
Helen Roberts was a weevy-
wavy and tuneful little Yum-
Yum, her aiders and abettors
in the Gilbertian conspiracy to
sentimentalise the geisha being
Jane Martin (Pitti-Sing) and
Roslyn Dunbar (Peep-Bo). As
the formidable Katisha, Muriel
Brunskill was, as usual, Muriel
Brunskill, and Richard Walker
was terrifying as the Mikado.
. If a better Ko-Ko than
Grahame Clifford were needed
he would have to be invented.
Mr. Clifford is a tiny, extra-
ordinarily nimble and
thoroughly relaxed profes-
sional jester who makes every-
thing seem funny, even Gil-
bert’s dullest moments. There
was something slightly
deciduous about the Nanki-
Poo of Terence O’Donoghue.
Traditionally the son of the
Mikado is a matinee idol
and a rich, warm, lifting
tenor. Mr. O'Donoghue was
neither.
A. A. A.
V V
The Irish Guards
Bagpipes wailing, trumpets
blaring, kilts and bearskins
swaying, and their red coats,
gleaming buttons and rigid
regimental half-stride making
them look rather like painted
toy - soldiers, her Majesty’s
Irish Guards marched into the
Olympic Pool in Melbourne.
A leak in the concrete having
let out all the water, they
emerged without a stain on
their spit-and-polish and, sitting
down with the same military
precision, they played “Waltz-
ing Matilda” in an arrangement
by their director, Captain C. H.
Jaeger, Mus.Bac., L.R.A.M.,
A.R.C.M., p.s.rri. and, as he
remarked himself, Y.M.C.A.
It didn’t sound much like
“Swan Lake”
It is now some.years since
the National Ballet presented
the full-length “Swan Lake,”
and although memory’s a fickle
jade, it seemed to the present
viewer that, on their opening
night in Brisbane, Borovansky's
principals, Elaine Fifield and
Kenneth Melville, just fell
short of Lyn Golding
and Henry D a n t o n in
the ballroom scene, when the
prince, excited by the presence
of Odile, should seem to dance
for the sheer joy of it. Not to
be outdone by him, the evil
Odile trumps his virtuosity
with her own.
Miss Fifield and Melville
were altogether too reserved in
this competition, but the same
reserve proved to be Miss
Fifield’s greatest asset in the
rest of the role. With her,
there is no resorting to facial
emotion, no confusion of
theatricality and the dance, and
her. performance takes on a
real grief in its classic calm —
no mean achievement in one
of the most romantic ballets
in the repertoire.
VAL VALLIS.


A.M.P.
news for private company directors
A new plan for key men has
recently been introduced
by the A.M.P. Society
This plan has remarkable advantages m
helping you solve your INCOME TAX and
DEATH DUTY problems.
Contact your A.M.P. Representative, or
a telephone call to the nearest A.M.P.
office will bring you full information.
Ring: Sydney—B 0530 Melbourne—Mß 1781
Brisbane —FA 1981 Adelaide —LA 2372
Perth—BA 2001 Hobart—B 7621
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY • GENERAL MANAGER: M. X C. BUTTFIELD


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
rirectors: THOMAS A. MAGUEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White ; A. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. • P. BURDON, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all Status.
“Waltzing Matilda” to the
present commentator, any
more than the Bach sounded
like Bach, the Wagner like
Wagner or the Puccini like
Puccini in the arrangements
played later; but it didn’t
sound like band music either.
If anything, it seemed to be the
illegitimate offspring of a
liaison between a mouth-organ
and a symphony orchestra.
That is not to say that it was
unpleasing. A pianoforte trans-
cription of Beethoven’s Ninth
Symphony by Liszt isn’t a bit
like the Ninth Symphony,, but
it can nonetheless be enjoyed
as a new piece of music. Some
of the Irish Guards’ items
could be enjoyed in the same
way, but very much in modera-
tion. The present commentator
must confess that on the whole
he appreciated the band’s
marching better than its play-
ing, and best of all the pipers’
dancing to the skirl of their
pipes.
The band consists of 39
musicians, five drummers and
12 pipers, and there are virtuosi
among them—a cornet solo
was near perfection. The
bandsmen’s scarlet tunics
emblazoned with gold, con-
trasting with the green cloaks,
tam-o’-shanters and saffron
kilts of the pipers, and the
magnificent bearskin caps with
their St. Patrick’s blue plume
of cut feathers, made & brilliant
kaleidoscope of color, and it is
a pity there wasn’t any water
to provide a reflection.
It is to be hoped that the
Pool architects will find the
leak before their next visit, if
only out of respect to their
Colonel-in-Chief.
+T+ *
Music in the Red
[From London]
Nothing except State
patronage can save British
orchestras from disaster.
Although similar gloomy
prophecies have been made
time and time again and
orchestras have somehow
managed to carry on, there is
an indisputable finality about
the present state of affairs.
The Yorkshire Symphony
Orchestra enjoyed only a short
life, having to give up the fight
when municipal grants were
withdrawn. Bournemouth, at
the last gasp, just survived, but
only because of the enterprise
of its concerts manager in run-
ning a nation-wide motor-car
competition which brought in
£6ooo—a comparatively small
amount, but sufficient, with
other receipts, to keep the
orchestra in being for another
year. The London Phil-
harmonic had to drop its
pension scheme. And so the dis-
tressing tale goes on.
A recent pay award, adding
from £BOOO to £lO,OOO a year
to the annual cost, has caused
the manager of the Halle to
make a statement (ironically
enough, at the beginning of the
Edinburgh Festival) to the
effect that this extra amount
cannot be earned at the box-
office. And this is in spite of
The fact that the Halle, by hard
work, has turned the 1951
deficit of £16,000 into a reserve-
fund of £30,000.
There is no question'-of
extravagance. Most leading
orchestras are giving an
average of two concerts a week,
which leaves them inadequate
time for rehearsal and
prejudices both the quality of
performance and the enlarging
of the repertoire. Moreover,
the disparity between the cost
of putting on a concert and the
receipts is staggering: the
respective figures for a large
hall are £BOO and £4OO.
Other factors, too, are
depressing to musicians. The
gradual decay of sound-broad-
casting, coupled with the high
cost of television programmes,
will probably force the 8.8. C.
to economise with its 13
orchestras. And it may well be
that recording for the gramo-
phone is no longer as remunera-
tive as formerly: not only is
serious music now well-covered
(with very many duplications)
but competition from foreign
orchestras, artistically the
richer because of State sub-
sidies, is much keener.
Last year’s subsidy to music
was £835,000, of which about
half went to Covent Garden.
Since the cost of maintaining
a full orchestra is at least
£lOO,OOO a year this does not
leave much over for 18
orchestras, to say nothing of
innumerable minor calls on the
Arts Council’s funds.
Films
“One-man Mutiny”
In the late ’twenties a far-
sighted U.S. general, Billy
Mitchell, was convinced of the
coming importance of air-
power, and, in despair at the
open antagonism to this branch
of defence by the reigning top-
brass, he took the extreme
step of strongly and publicly
criticising his superiors so that
he could use the court-martial,
which he deliberately invited,
as a means of arousing
public attention. This film is
based on his court-martial, the
verdict of which was that he
should be dismissed from the
Service.
Douglas MacArthur, not then
a general, was one of the
members of the court-martial
who were favorably disposed
to the forthright and sincere
Mitchell, but he was one of a
small band outvoted by the
conservatives, headed by the
presiding general (authorita-
tively played by Charles Bick-
ford). •
The greater part of the film
is devoted to the actual court-
martial, and a fascinating study
in polemics it is, with opposing
counsel in the'hands of two
skilled actors: Ralph Bellamy,
as the Senator appearing for
the defence, and Rod Steiger
tor the prosecution. There are
none of the roarings and
bangings which too often mar
films on American justice;
here all is calm dignity and
reasoned argument.
Gary Cooper, as Mitchell —
who, among other correct
predictions at his court-martial,
named the Japanese attack on
Pearl Harbor and the form it
would take —conveys very well
the general’s strength of
character, and for one who
mostly deals in silence or
monosyllables, he talks a lot
with quite an air.* At Sydney
Plaza.
❖ *z*
“The Baker of Valorgue”
Fernandel, the horse-faced
comedian, does about 80 per
cent, of the work in this
French-made farce about a
village baker. When one of the
local lasses names his son —
then absent on Army-service in
Algiers—as the father of her
baby, and most of the
inhabitants heartily and glee-
fully endorse the claim, he
stubbornly refuses to believe it
and, narked at the believers,
withholds his services from
them.
This touches-off a chain-
reaction when the postmaster
retaliates by refusing him
mail-service, and the comic
internecine strife continues
until the son returns and
cheerfully admits paternity. All
is forgiven and the dough-
basher, . unabashed, fatuously
dandles his grandson at the
wedding (effected without
benefit of shotgun) and leads
the resultant jollo and general
reconciliation.
As the baker, Fernandel, a
cheerful comedian, puts his
homely dial through a
wondrous range of expressions
and throws himself into the pro-
ceedings with enormous gusto.
The life of the little French
village, with all its excitable
arm-wavers, is depicted with
delightful realism. At Sydney
Vogue.
*
“The Ride Back”
This is a Western which tries
by honest concentration on a
simple theme to be different,
and succeeds. A lawman
(William Conrad) goes all the
way to Mexico to bring back a
man (Anthony Quinn) wanted
for murder. The long ride back
constitutes the film ; the con-
trast in Quinn’s laconic, sneer-
ing runaway, and Conrad’s
openly frightened lawman
determined to make this the
one accomplishment in his life,
provides the drama. Both
characters are well drawn.
Lita Milan happens along as
her ladyship. .At Hoyts’
theatres.
* ❖ ♦>
“Pay the Devil”
Once again the incorruptible
sheriff is trotted out for an
airing, in this case being
stacked-up against a cattle-
baron who makes and
administers his own laws on
his huge ranch. When the
ranch foreman overdoes the
job and murders the young
admirer of the trump’s
daughter, instead of just doing
him over as a caution, every-
thing from political influence
to strong-arm stuff is used to
dissuade the sheriff from his
inquiries. The resultant action
adds up to a fair meed of
excitement and suspense.
Orson Welles pours a lot of
his rich personality into the
role of the ruthless tycoon, and
Jeff Chandler is the sheriff. At
Sydney Capitol.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
far the largest producer of wrapping-
papers and cardboard in Australia, the
big A.P.M. set new production records
last term, lifting its output of paper and
board by 13.3 p.c. Further progress in
the current term is promised by the com-
pletion, announced recently, of the new
board-mill at Petrie (Q.) with an initial
capacity of over 20,000 tons of paper-
board a year.
A.P.M. was formed in 1926 by Aus-
tralasian Paper and Pulp and Cumberland
Board Mills, the parent cos., which held
all the ord. capital, amalgamating in 1948
and going into voluntary liquidation in
1954, when shareholders in the old co.
exchanged their scrip for shares in
A.P.M.
Keeping pace with the heavy capital-
outlay, which has benefited earnings in
recent years, the co.’s paid capital has
jumped from £3.2 million in 1948 to £l7
million, 6 p.c. prefs. accounting for £3.5
million.
With completion of work at Petrie and
the acquisition of Western Paper Mills
(Perth) the co. now operates seven mills,
four of which are in Victoria. Part of its
pulpwood requirements come from the
wholly-owned subsidiary A.P.M. Forests
Pty., while another offshoot, Maddingley
Brown Coal Pty., supplies coal to the
three mills in and around Melbourne as
well as to outside customers.
Recovering quickly from a sharp fall
in earnings in the 1953 term (when the
ord. div. was cut from 8.9 p.c. to 4.5 p.c.),
A.P.M. has reported steady improvement
in both turnover and earnings over the
past three years, the ord. div.-rate rising
from 6.5 p.c. to 7.5 p.c. in 1955, and, last
term, to 8 p.c. After regarding the co.’s
f.-p. £1 ords. with some caution over the
past few years the sharemarket cur-
rently prices the scrip at 255. lOd. (com-
pared with 235. 3d. a year ago) to return
6.2 p.c. from an 8 p.c. div. At 19s. 9d.
the £l6 p.c. cumulative prefs. give a yield
a shade better than 6 p.c. Consolidated
accounts give the prefs. a net tangible
backing of £6 4s. and the ords. a cover
of 265. lid.
Most of the output from the co.’s 17
machines (many of which operated on a
continuous seven-day-week basis last
term) goes to package- and container-
manufacturers for use as raw material,
and with import-restrictions helping to
increase demand for the local product,
sales of paper and board last term rose
by 15,098 tons to 225,869 tons:
t Production N Sales.
Wood Paper and Paper and
Year to Pulp, Boards, Boards,
June 30, Tons. Tons. Tons.
1953 .. .. 36,307 102,317 96,143
1954 .. .. 61,609 166,276 168,976
1955 .'. .. 73,245 196,008 188,358
1956 .. .. 76,900 206,557 210,771
1957 .. ... 87,898 234,220 225,869
By value, sales were £2,460,788 higher
at £24,944,961, an increase in selling-
prices late in the term combining with
the greater volume of sales to produce
the improved result.
Excluding the proportion due to out-
side shareholders, net profit for the year
to June 30 last was £142,210 stronger
at £1,868,734, the higher figure being
claimed after setting aside £1,492,800 (up
£139,600) for taxation and £2,020,166 (up
£247,340) for depreciation:
Parent Only.
Dividends.
Net Prefs. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. 4.5 p.c. serves. serves.
•££ £ £ £
1953.. 549,426 159,956 575,500 3,109,961
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 3,099,961
Reserves capitalised, £492,859 ..2,607,102
Tax overprovided 1953, £95,000 ..2,702,102
Unexplained reduction, £8765 .. 2,693,327
6.5 p.c.
1954. .1,476,708 190,312 893,363 393,033 3,086,360
Unexplained reduction, £6BOO ~3,079,560
7.5 p.c.
1955. .1,690,089 210,000 1,010,611 469,478 3,549,038
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Added on consolidation, £53,444 .. 3,602,482
Tax overprovided, £21,111 .. ..3,623,593
From contingency reserve, £5780 ..3,617,813
7.5 p.c.
1956. .1,726,524 210,000 1,010,611 505,913 4,123,726
Share premiums, £lBB9 .. .. 4,125,615
From contingency reserve, £6120 .. 4,119,495
8 p.c.
1957.1,868,734 210,000 1,180,000 578,734 4,698,229
As in previous years, the tax-provision
was calculated after utilising portion of a
provision for deferred tax (created during
the years when special allowances were
granted on initial depreciation), an
additional £96,400 (unstated in previous
year) being taken from this account last
term. It would appear, however, that tax
has been provided for at the old (Bs. in
the £) rate.
The higher (8 p.c.) ord. div. was com-
fortably covered, earnings being sufficient
to pay the pref. div. and equal a return
of 12.3 p.c. on ord. capital, compared
with 11.2 p.c. in the preceding term and
(parents’ accounts only) 10.9, 9.4, 3 and
11.7 p.c. back to 1952.
Work on the Petrie mill was respons-
ible for a major part of the £2,098,953
put into fixed assets over the year,
depreciation, etc., limiting the increase in
the book-value of these “earning assets”
to £344,657:
Consolidated Balance-sheet. '
Paid capital—- 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref. .. £3,500,000 £ 3,500,000 £3,500,000
Ord. .. 13,474,812 13,474,812 13,500,000
Reserves .. 3,602,482 4,123,726 4,698,229
Minority interest 23,670 25,187 26,397
Debentures ... 3,250,000 3,250,000 3,250,000
Mortgages »„ 512,965 615,002 653,162
Deposits .. 82,574 750,634
Overdrafts .. 1,882,746 2,144,047 1,702,604
Creditors .. 1,603,216 1,391,379 1,325,332
Tax reserve .. 1,934,595 2,259,071 2,307,527
Staff funds .. 395,780 497,323 598,685
Final divs. .. 711,367 711,367 780,000
£30,791,033 £32,074,488 £33,092,570
Fixed assets .. 22,055,605 22,977,061 23,321,718
Stock .. 4,465,745 4,428,184 5,118,953
Book debts .. 4,247,783 4,646,743 4,629,399
Cash, bonds, etc. 22,500 22,500 22,500
£30,791,633 £32,074,488 £33,092,570
Scrip issued (at a premium of Is. 6d.)
in connection with the purchase of
Western Paper Mills added £25,188 to
paid capital, total shareholders’ funds
increasing by £599,691 to £21,698,229. In
addition to reserves, share-capital has
the support of £3,250,000 of relatively
cheap debenture-money, £2,250,000 of
which carries interest at 3J p.c. and
the balance at 4 p.c. A big increase in
deposits held at short call (up £668,060)
enabled a £441,443 reduction in over-
drafts last term, and, with retained earn-
ings, helped to finance the capital-
expenditure and a 15.5 p.c. increase in
stocks. Despite the higher turnover and
an extra £203,368 in loans to employees,
total book-debts fell by £17,344.
Further additions to productive
capacity are planned for the current term
with the establishment of a mill in South
Australia—to be jointly owned by
Cellulose Australia, Ltd., and A.P.M. —
likely as the next major development.
It is intended that this mill will utilise the
softwood timber available in S.A., the
Government of that State agreeing to
advance a third of the estimated £1.5
million capital-cost. A.P.M. expects to
finance its share, £500,000, from internal
funds.
With the relaxation of import-restric-
tions the co.’s prosperity is dependent, in
part, on the degree of protection granted
to the industry, and a Tariff Board inquiry
into the rates of duty on imported paper
and paper products was completed
earlier this year, but the board’s findings
have yet to be published.
Carrier Air Conditioning, Ltd.
OPURRED-ON by the high level of
commercial building and the accept-
ance of air-conditioning as a reasonable
amenity—-rather than a luxury—Carrier
Air Conditioning, Ltd., has expanded pro-
duction, turnover and earnings at a
remarkable rate over the last few years,
completed sales jumping by 167 p.c. and
net profit by 100 p.c. since 1954.
To provide the funds needed for this
expansion shareholders were offered
85,000 £1 ords. at par, on a one-for-two
basis, early in 1955, while, only 18 months
later, issued capital was doubled by a
one-for-one par issue. Despite the large
increase in capital, the 12£ p.c. div.-rate
adopted in 1955 was maintained without
difficulty in the ’56 and ’57 terms.
Formed 25 years ago, Carrier manu-
factures an extensive range of air-condi-
tioning equipment at factories in Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide,
installing its products in all parts of the
country. The public obtained an interest
in the co. in 1937, and, although three of
the next 10 years were dry ones, as far as
ord. shareholders were concerned, the
div.-rate reached 9 p.c. in 1950 and 10 p.c.
in 1953, averaging 9.8 p.c. over the last
decade. Scrip issued last term became
fully paid at the end of last month, lifting
paid capital to £535,000, all in £1 ords.
The 50,000 £1 5£ p.c. prefs. issued by the
co. in 1948 were exchanged for 7 p.c.
notes late in 1955.
Production at the new Seven Hills
(Sydney) plant, the co.’s largest, exceeded
expectations last ferm (to June 30), new


records being established in all depart-
ments. The value of completed sales rose
from £983,630 to £1,422,978, the board
claiming an increase in actual turnover
of 100 p.c. The increasing volume of air-
conditioning business available has drawn
several new competitors into the field, but
while competition has narrowed profit-
margins, increased turnover has
compensated for the reduction, net profit
last term improving by £27,273 (34.8 p.c.)
to £105,567 ;
June Re-
-30. Profit. f Dividends N serves.*
5 p.c. Pref. Ord.
1952.. 28,827 2500 9 p.c. = 15,300 100,932
Written off intangibles, £ISOO . . 99,432
Surplus sale assets, £3OOI .. 102,433
1953.. 48,133 2500 10 p.c. = 17,000 131,066
Written off intangibles, £11,796 .. 119,270
Surplus sale assets, £329 .. .. 119,599
1954.. 52,712 2500 10 p.c. = 17,250 152,561
Tax upderprovided, £49 .. .. 152,512
Surplus sale assets, £382 .. .. 152,894
1955.. 66,626 . 2500 12>}p.c.= 25,157 191,933
Surplus sale assets, £1444 .. .. 193,377
Debenture issue expenses, £4757 .. 188,620
1956.. 78,294 333 12Jp.c.= 31,355 235,226
1957.. 105,567 l2| „ ~45,158 295,635
* Subject to intangibles (£11,796 at 31/6/’s3j,
rubbed out of the accounts in the 1954 term.
Claimed after larger provisions for both
taxation (up £25,000 at £80,000) and
depreciation (up £10,228 at £27,362), the
earnings equalled a return of 29.2 p.c. on
the average share-capital employed, com-
pared with 31, 30.6, 29.1 and 26.8 p.c. in
the four preceding years. An unaltered
12} p.c. div. on share-capital as it will
stand at the end of September would call
for £66,875, less than 66.5 p.c. of last
term’s net profit.
The heavy capital-expenditure over the
past two years has paid-off sooner than
anticipated by the board, and with the
proceeds of last term’s share-issue, there
was a big improvement in the co.’s liquid
position over the year. As a result,
holders of the 150,000 7 p.c. notes (matur-
ing in 1960) have been invited to redeem
their holdings at par-p/ws-interest at date
of redemption. Cash at bank, etc.,
climbed from £12,865 to £381,361 over
the twelve months, and at the same time
an £81,921 overdraft was eliminated:
Paid capital—> 1955. 1956. 1957.
' Pref £50,000
Ord 218,750 £262,500 £466,875
Reserves .. 191,933 235,226 295,635
Unsecured notes .. 150,000 150,000
Overdraft .. .... 19,174 81,921
Creditors, etc. 164,132 194,750 199,301
Tax provision .. 42,009 73,435 78,000
Final divs. .. 16,407 19,688 28,629
£702,396 £1,017,520 £1,218,440
Freeholds .. .. 151,687 278,102 N 328,106
Plant, etc. .. 71,633 103,277 195,975
Stock .. 316,077 356,104 7,569
Debtors .. .. 152,113 267,172 305,429
Cash, etc 10,886 12,865 381,361
£702,396 £1,017,520 £1,218,440
Most of the fresh capital gathered in dur-
ing the term (£204,375) went into fixed
assets, the book-value of freeholds
(partly valuation, partly cost) increasing
by £50,004 and the cost-/ew-depreciation
figure given for plant, etc., by £92,698.
Although stock and work-in-progress rose
by £470,726 (to £1,590,465), claims against
uncompleted contracts reduced the net
figure to the £7569 shown in the foregoing
table. Assuming that noteholders avail
themselves of the co.’s offer, current assets
exceeded current liabilities by £238,429
at balance-date.
There are signs of a slackening in the
tempo of commercial building activity,
but, to date, overall demand for air-condi-
tioning equipment has been well main-
tained and the co. is currently seeking to
develop and extend the market for
“packaged” air-conditioning units.
With all scrip regarded as fully paid, net
tangible assets at June 30 last were
sufficient to provide a cover of 31s. Id. for
each £1 ord. The 15s. contribs. sold
recently at 435., the f.-p.s bringing 48s.
to return 5.2 p.c. from a 12} p.c. div.
Metropolitan Cement
■ji/fETROPOLITAN Portland Cement is
a vessel of wrecked investment hopes
that continues to sail on under wind
raised from the Rural Bank of N.S.W.
According to the co.’s latest accounts all
the shareholders’ capital and £113,438
more has disappeared in trading losses
and establishment charges. And if the
investment principle that assets are
worth only what they can be made to
earn still applies, the remaining tangible
assets of the co. may be subject to further
discount on book-values, because in its
eight years of existence the co. has never
made a profit.
Last year’s loss was £177,061, as
against £256,840 in the preceding year.
Before arriving at the loss bank and
debenture interest of £177,694 was
charged (£159,363 previous year) and
£83,964 depreciation (£83,379).
Total losses now aggregate £787,714,
and other intangibles total another
£330,030 —together they amount to
£1,117,744, against a paid capital of
£1,004,306. <
The amount owing to the Rural Bank
rose from £3,625,642 to £3,932,520 during
the term.
The co. points out that, in incurring the
latest loss, operations in the second half
of the -year were more favorable than in
the first half. But the mentioned the
same trend in the preceding year, and yet
that comparatively favorable trend was
not maintained throughout 1956.
The board has made arrangements with
an outside firm of engineering consultants
for management of the works, and im-
provements are reported and more
expected. But the management, whatever
form it takes, has to carry the burden of
past misconceptions, mistakes and bad
planning, the disadvantages arising from
the purchase of second-hand plant (from
the U.S.A.) to start with, and from diffi-
culties (including excessive wet-weather
early in the piece) that could have hardly
been foreseen.
In addition to financing the hole left
in the accounts by heavy annual losses,
the colossal overdraft has been partly in-
curred in adding new equipment to the
cement-works in order to make economic
the original outlay on plant, and to en-
deavor to bring the various units into
balance with regard to output.
But fundamental problems remain
with the co., and chief of these is the high
cost of transport. Each year the board
comments on it. Coal has to be brought
from the co.’s colliery at Berrima and
lime from its quarry at Marulan to the
cement-works at Maldon (near Pictoti,
N.S.W.). *
Cartage of raw-materials has become
the biggest single item in the co.’s costs,
whereas the plan which inspired the enter-
prise to begin with was rail-freight
advantages (through anomalies in railway-
charges) by manufacturing near the
metropolitan area. How badly this plan
has backfired is shown by the fact that an
alteration in freight-charges by the
N.S.W.G.R. last term is said to have
given the co.’s competitors an advantage
of Bs. a ton over Metropolitan, and to
have added to its loss for the year.
The co.’s output of cement has un-
doubtedly been of help to the N.S.W.
-building industry during times of short
supply. But now it is finding conditions
very competitive, and the many favors it
received from Labor Governments, both
in Canberra and in Sydney (from alloca-
tion of dollars for purchase of the plant
to price-control favors during the period
of cement-scarcity, not to mention the
extraordinary overdraft-accommodation
from that N.S.W. Government agency the
Rural Bank), are of little avail at the
present time.
The actual output of cement by the
co. each year is not mentioned, but if it
amounted to 125,000 tons a year it is
clear that interest and depreciation
charges (both of which appear to be
moderate) would represent £2 a ton by
themselves. Excessive transport-costs on
top of that make the going heavy indeed.
The queer financial set-up, and how it
has been developing, is clear from this
comparison of balance-sheet figures:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital ..
Debentures • .. 100,000 100,000 100,000
Overdraft .. .. 3,278,3'65 3,625,642 3,932,520
Creditors .. .. 66,521 74,999 113,796
£4,449.192 £4,804,947 £5,150,622
Freeholds .. : . 139,912 137,795 136,046
Cement works,
quarry, colliery,
plant, etc. .. 2,964.928 2,994,103 2,982,262
Shares sub. co. .. 226,844 226,844 226,844
Shares other cos.,. 5,265 5,265 5,265
Stock .. .. 292,938 372,482 533,928
Debtors .. ... 136,150 127,495 148,163
Cash .. .. 312 280 370
Intangibles .. 330,030 330,030 330,030
P. and 1. debit .. 353,813 610,653 787,714
£4,449,192 £4,804,947 £5,150,622
As indicated before, the spirit, in the
shape of shareholders’ capital, has,
on those figures, now left the
body, but repeated transfusions
from the Rural Bank keep the con-
cern going. Last term another £67,384
was spent on plant, which,, because of
depreciation provisions, has remained in
the books at a fairly stable figure over
the past three years.
The undertaking is heavily overcapi-
talised in relation to its competitors, and
it is overburdened with costs. This year
much will depend on the directors’ claim,
following the change in management, that
“very definite improvements” have been
made in the “manufacturing-capacity of
the plant and the methods employed.”
The sharemarket offers 2s. for the
co.’s £1 ords. No div.-yield is in sight,
and net tangible backing is minus.


v.» 'i.ff T i
o
H
f^fNT
IFfoatf has this symbol to
do with your income?
The answer is everything. The
Sydney County Council—distribu-
tors of electricity to over 1,200,000
people in the metropolitan area—
offers you an opportunity to profit
by its expansion.
Your money will go on gaining 5£
per cent annually for 5, 10 or 20
years as you wish. Not only will
you earn almost double savings bank
interest, but your investment will be
secured on the annual income of the
S.C.C. (over £22,000,000 in 1956).
Every Loan investor immediately
gains from Sydney’s ever-increasing
reliance on electricity in factories,
shops, offices and homes. Familiar
throughout the U.S.A. as the
emblem of these sweeping changes,
the "Live Better Electrically” sym-
bol is now becoming recognised in
Australia as the pointer to this
easier, more rewarding way of living.
Everywhere—in industry and com-
merce as well as in homes—elec-
tricity is "going places.” Now you
can benefit from this irresistible
trend by putting your money into
the S.C.C. Loan. Your investment
will be quickly arranged at the
nearest —
• Commonwealth Trading Bank;
• Australia and New Zealand Bank
Limited;
• Bank of New-South Wales;
• The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited;
or through any Stockbroker.
■ft*.
THE SYDNEY
COUNTY COUNCIL
ELECTRICITY LOAN
nci
s'/4%
Underwritten by Ralph W. King & Yuill (Members of The Sydney
Stock Exchange), 113 Pitt St., Sydney; Grafton ond Armidale.
SC 117.57
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422. Collins Street, Melbourne,
C.l. Australian and Overseas Patents
and Trade Marks. —Advt.
Wilke and Co., Ltd.
■yolTH the aid of the new
* * offset printing-plant at
Clayton (Melbourne), Wilke
and Co., Ltd., was able to im-
prove its trading results last
term, but expenses and losses of
a non-recurring nature over
the year kept the net addition
to reserves down to £4560,
after providing for an un-
changed 8 p.c. div.
Controlling a printing, book-
binding and stationery-manu-
facturing business originally
established in 1896, Wilke and
Co. was converted to a public
co. in 1948, paid capital reach-
ing £538,850 in June, *55, when
113,750 £1 ords. were offered
to shareholders at par in the
ratio of 35 for every 100 shares
held. The English printing-
house Hazel, Watson and
Viney, Ltd., ‘acquired 10,000
ords. at a premium of 16s. each
in 1950, while the M.L.C. holds
50,000 £1 6| p.c. redeemable
prefs., another £50,000 in 5
p.c. prefs. taking pref. capital
to £lOO,OOO. In 1954 £130,000
was raised by the issue of 6
p.c. notes, which, at the option
of the holder, are convertible
into ords. at par on maturity
(June, 1960). The ord. div.-
rate has remained steady at 8
p.c. over the past five years.
Operating from premises at
North Melbourne and the Mel-
bourne outer-suburb of Clay-
ton, the co. has printed the Mel-
bourne Telephone Directory
for some years and, since 1955,
the Australian and New Zea-
land editions of the “Readers’
Digest.”
Competition was keener
during the term ended June
30 last, but a greater volume
of business was obtained, net
earnings advancing by £5246
to £55,272 despite heavier pro-
visions for taxation (£62,400,
up £11,650), depreciation
£57,610, up £14,866) and
amortisation (£9356, up £6664)
and a “more conservative
valuation of work -in - pro-
gress” :
, Dividends N Re-
Jne., Prft. Prof. ( Ord.— —serves.
5 p.e.
£ £ £
’53..43,569 2500 8 p.c. = 26,000 134,876
Profit sale assets, £439 .. 135,315
To staff fund, £2500 .. 132,815
Prelim, exp. w’off, £3709.. 129,106
’54..59,054 2500 8 p.c. = 26,000 159,660
Profit sale assets, £1487 .. 161.147
Tax overprovided, £11,780 .. 172,927
Prelim, exp. w/off, £3095.. 169,832
A Pref. B Pref. Ord.
5 p.c. 6 J p.c. 8 p.c.
£ £ £
’65..50,349 2500 686 26,758 190,237
Profit sale assets, £592 .. 190,829
To staff fund, £2OOO .. 188,829
’56..50,026 2500 3250. 35,108 197,997
Net capital loss on plant
scrapped or sold, £4533.. 193,464
Provision for long-service
leave, £BBB4 .. ..‘ 184,580
Tax overprovided, £3563 .. 188,143
’57..55,272 2500 3250 35,108 202,557
After covering the pref. divs.
the earnings equalled a return
of 11.2 p.c. on ord. capital,
compared with 10 p'.c. and 14.1
p.c. in the two preceding terms,
but a £BBB4 provision for long-
service leave and losses arising
from the scrapping of obsolete
plant swallowed a large part of
the surplus remaining after
payment of divs.
Total liabilities to bankers,
creditors, etc., were reduced
over the term by £40,998, work-
ing-capital increasing by
£65,618 to £143,945:
Paid capital— 1956. 1957.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 438,850 438,850
Reserves .. 197,997 202,567
Notes .. .. 130,000 130,000
Overdraft, etc... 243,567 288,854
Creditors .. 131,127 44,842
Long-service pro-
vision .. 4,500 13,384
Tax provision ... 51,031 62,400
Dividends .. 22,623 22^623
£1,319,695 £1,303,510
Freehold .. 244,835 235,747
Plant .. .. 543,685 491,715
Stock .. .. 312,027 408,527
Debtors ~ .. 218,705 167,068
Cash .. .. 443 453
£1,319,695 £1,303,510
Although a greater turnover
was recorded, stocks rose
sharply (up 30.9 p.c.), while
book-debts fell by £51,637 or
23.6 p.c. After heavy expendi-
ture on fixed assets over the
three preceding terms, deprecia-
tion and amortisation reduced
their book-value by £61,058,
and, with operations at Clayton
now fully established, sale of
premises at Yarraville (Melb.),
used prior to the erection of the
Clayton works, is proposed.
Trading conditions appear
likely to remain strongly com-
petitive in the current term,
and, with the object of making


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Maßnettimir Machines,
(icorg,) Ellison Switch. Gear,
etc. Mahers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
full use of the modern and
efficient plant at its disposal,
the board is continuing its
policy of increasing the types
of production undertaken.
At balance-date there was a
net tangible cover of 295. 3d.
for each f.-p. £1 ord. and
£l4 16s. 7d. for the 5 p.c. prefs.
At 235. the ords. would return
7 p.c. from an 8 p.c. div., a
yield of 6.5 p.c. coming from
the 5 p.c. prefs. at 14s. 9d.
Sellers are asking around
2s. Id. for the options attaching
to the convertible notes.
Melbourne Steamship Co.
ENJOYING a comparative
freedom from industrial
disputes, the inter-State vessels
owned by Melbourne Steam-
ship Co., Ltd., operated more
profitably last term and, with
satisfactory results from the
trading departments and en-
gineering subsidiaries, the co.
was able to recover most of
the ground lost in the preced-
ing term.
However, according to Mel-
bourne Steamship’s chairman
(D. York Syme), “the diffi-
culties surrounding" the inter-
state shipping trade are
certainly not diminishing.”
Despite legislation passed last
year intended to encourage the
development of private ship-
ping-lines and the subsequent
placing of orders for new
vessels, competition from land-
and air-transport (aided by a
long history of waterfront
strikes and stoppages) has re-
duced the quantity of general
cargo available to shipowners,
while only a modest return can,
on present indications, be
expected from the very heavy
outlay required to replace the
ageing coastal fleet with more
modern (and competitive) types
of vessels. Standardisation of
the Melbourne-Sydney rail-
link, although scarcely out of
the believe-it-when-you-see-it
category, could also affect the
volume of cargo carried by
inter-State shipping.
Sale of the cargo-vessel
Mernoo early last term re-
duced the Melbourne co.’s
fleet to the 22-year-old pas-
senger-vessel Duntroon, a 36-
year-old freighter and several
tugs, lighters, etc., the gross
tonnage under the control of
the co. dropping from 23,295
in 1951 to 15,605 at the end of
last term. By way of contrast
the co.’s subsidiary activities
have considerably extended
over the past five years, en-
gineering cos. in Sydney (1952)
and Fremantle (1953) being
added to the older subsidiary,
Hobson’s Bay Dock . and
Engineering Co. Pty., of Mel-
bourne. In addition, the parent
is associated, through its
trading department, with four
stevedoring cos., holds several
agencies and acts as booking-
agent for a number of shipping-
lines and airlines. Paid capital,
£366,000 (including £26,000 in
6 p.c. prefs.), has remained un-
altered for almost 40 years,
*ord. divs. over the last decade
averaging 8 p.c.
One of the factors behind
the improved shipping results
last term was the co.’s deci-
sion to run cruises to the Pacific
Islands during the winter
months in place of the less-
profitable voyages to West
Australia. The Duntroon’s
capacity on these cruises was
fully booked, and, although
maintenance- and operating-
costs continued to rise, net
profit from all sources during
the year ended June 30 last
increased by £16,520 (42.7 p.c.)
to £55,210, after providing
£31,630 (up £15,190) for taxa-
tion and an almost-unchanged
£48,733 for depreciation. A
further £30,442 capital-profit
resulted from the sale of the
Mernoo:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
—Dividends l Re- Re-
Jne., Prft. Pref. Ord. tained. serves.
6 p.c. 8 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
’52..37,568 1560 27,200 8,808 329,655
Net reductions res., £14,527 . . 315,128
’53..47,928 1560 27,200 19,168 334,296
Net reductions res., £7631.. 326,665
9 p.c.
’54..61,591 1560 30,600 29,431 356,096
Tax ovepirovided, £7500 .. 363,596
To provision for overhauls,
£12,500 351,096
Net reduction res., £264 .. 350,832
’55..58,186 1560 30,600 26,026 376,858
Tax overprovided, £4682 . . 381,540
Net addition res., £l5 ~ 381,555
To staff fund, £4738 .. 376,817
8 p.c.
’56..38,690*1560 27,200 9,930 386,747
Profit sale vessel, £30.442.. 417,189
Net reduction res., £2198.. 414,991
’57..55,210 1560 27,200 26,450 441,441
* Includes £Bl,OOO transferred from
provision for overhauls.
The actual improvement in
earnings was even better than
the figures indicate, as net
profit in the preceding term
was bolstered by an £Bl,OOO
transfer from provision for
overhauls. The ord. div., cut
from 9 p.c. to 8 p.c. in 1956,
was maintained at the lower
figure, earnings covering the
pref. div. and 15.7 p.c. on ord.
capital compared with 10.9 p.c.
and 16.6 p.c. in 1956 and 1955
respectively.
The smaller fleet, along with
other fixed assets, figured in the
accounts at £1,282,364 (mainly
at cost), provision for depreci-
ation (£840,999), reducing the
net figure to £441,365, a fall of
£51,933:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1956. 1957.
Pref £26,000 £26,000
Ord 340,000 340,000
Reserves ~ 386,747 441,441
Creditors .. 615,081 489,320
Overdraft .. 6,393
Overhauls pro-
vision, etc. .. 116,092 121,134
Tax provision ..... 16,440 31,403
Suspense account 7,495 12,292
Final divs. .. 14,380 14,380
£1,522,235 £1,482,363
Ships, freeholds,
etc 493,298 441,365
Shares .. .. 63,945 74,075
Stocks .. .. 132,748 158,365
Debtors .. 560,873 552,084
Cash, bonds .. 271,002 256,272
Intangibles .. 369 202
£1,522,235 £1,482,363
The amount owing to creditors
was reduced by £125,761 over
the year, an additional £25,617
going into stock and £10,130
into investments, the surplus of
current assets over liabilities
(including provision for over-
hauls) increasing by a pleasing
£92,497 to £292,001. Referring
to this improvement, the chair-
man stated that the co. was
building-up its resources “so
as to be in a position to seize
a favorable opportunity for ex-
pansion should one present
itself.”
At 245. the co.’s f.-p. £1 ords.
would yield 6.7 p.c. from a
continued 8 p.c. div., the prefs.
at 18s. 6d. returning 6.4 p.c.
Consolidated accounts show a
net tangible backing of
£3l Is. Id. for the prefs. and
455. lid. for the ords.
Raub Australian Gold
Mining Co., Ltd.
TTAMPERED iri the preced-
ing term by an irregular
power-supply, Raub ran into
further trouble last year, a
strike of all non-staff employees
dislocating operations from
December, ’56, to June, ’57.
Largely as a result of the strike
the co. failed, for the fourth
year in succession, to show a
profit; a net loss of £28,660,
calcu lated after allowing
£26,051 for depreciation, being
reported for the year to March
31 last.
Raub, which mines gold and
a small quantity of scheelite in
Pahang, Malaya, last paid a
div. in 1941, the Japanese in-
vasion of Malaya forcing
operations to be suspended for
almost five years.
During the five-and-a-half-
months period between resump-
tion of power-supplies from the
main Sempam generator and
commencement of the strike
the mine showed an operating-
profit of almost £20,000,
despite a drop in the overall
recovered grade of ore. The
tonnage of ore treated over the
full term fell from 69,836 to
54,273:
1956. 1951.
Treated, tons .. 69,836 54,273
Av. head- grade,
dwt./ton .. .. 5.74 4,86
Av. recovered-grade,
dwt./ton .. 4.82 3.96
Extraction 83.5 p.c. 81.5 p.c.
Gold: realisation,
fine oz 17,432 12,974
Av. price, fine 0z... £l7/7/10 £lB/18/4
Scheelite-production was a
little higher at 15.5 tons
(against 13.75 tons in the pre-
ceding term), but the average
price obtained per long-ton
unit fell by 51s. to 2355.
No development-work was
undertaken in the last quarter
of the term, but proved ore
reserves increased by 9840 tons
to 26,270 tons over the year,
and probable and possible
reserves from 46,770 tons 4o
50,780 tons, the estimated
overall grade improving from
s.2dwt. to s.3dwt. per ton.
As could be expected the
continued losses have strained
the co.’s finances, the balance-
sheet showing current assets
of £16,684 and investments of
£9897, against current liabilities
(including unstated provisions)
of £34,462.- It was necessary
to request postponement of
certain repayments in connec-
tion with the rehabilitation loan
(received by the co. after the
war). However, the balance
owing under this loan was
reduced by £22,503 to £180,027
over the year. Mine property,
plant, etc., were in the accounts
at £459,470, accumulated losses
(£36,723) reducing net reserves
to £47,893.
Paid capital, £200,000, is in
f.-p. ss. shares, recent bids for
the scrip falling to Is. although
buyers are asking 2s.


iE HAS A
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The neo - BAR-
rere acts like
a hand when
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for Free Literature
Barrere Distribution Company
Dept. 3w, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LILY FITZELL late of 29 Black-
stock Street, Liverpool, England.—TAKE
NOTICE that HENRY GEORGE
FITZELL has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2724 of 1957 on the ground of
desertion without cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street' Sydney by 17th January
1958 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. COL-
REAVY, O’LEARY & McGINTY, Soli-
citors, of 26 Bridge Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGH AN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN WILLIAM JOSEPH ADAMS
now or formerly of Dubbo in the State
of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that BETTY PATRICIA ADAMS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1456 of
1957 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 29th day of
November 1957 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. MADDOCKS COHEN &
MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 38 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
m
.
'' . ■
I
$1
Em
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
13Y offering to convert now
£2l-million of stock not
maturing till February, N.Z.’s
National Government has
indicated that it is confident of
surviving the coming election.
Had it been otherwise it might
have chosen to leave arrange-
ments for dealing with the loan
as an early headache for its
successor.
Terms for the new £22-
million loan, which is offered to
cash subscribers as well as to
holders of stocks maturing in
November and February, are
the as for this year’s
£2O-million Progress Loan.
The rates of interest, how-
ever, are below those now
ruling in the market. When
the Progress Loan was issued
in June its terms were in line
with ruling rates, but since then
yields have risen.
Stocks with three years to
run can now be bought to
yield 3s. to ss. per cent, more
than the £4 10s. per cent, which
the Government' is offering.
Stocks with six or 12 years to
run can be bought to yield
Is. 3d. to Is. 6d.-more than
the Government's offer of
£4 15s. per cent.
However, though the small
investor may feel that he can
do better, the rates offered for
the new loan are not un-
attractive to the large gilt-
edged investor, who could
expect to see yields fall if he
sought to buy a big block of
stock on the market.
The new loan will also be
welcomed by all those who wish
to obtain death-duty stock,
which cannot be bought in the
market. This stock is accepted
at full par-value at any time
in payment of death-duty,
income-tax or social-security
tax on a deceased estate.
Productivity
A fall in N.Z.’s standard of
living is “a real possibility”
Unless there is an improvement
in terms of trade or in produc-
tion or productivity. This is
the opinion of the Department
of Industries and Commerce,
expressed in its annual report
to Parliament.
_ Population-growth and the
need to develop industries and
basic services will, it is expected,
create a demand for - imports
increasing at an annual cumu-
lative rate of at least 2 per
cent, over the next 20 years.
Volume of exports, on the
other hand, may not rise by
more than 1.8 per cent, a year
if the experience of the last
eight years is taken as a guide.
The dangers of the apparent
gap are aggravated by an
adverse trend in terms of trade.
Terms of Trade
Between 1955 and 1956
N.Z.’s terms of trade deteri-
orated by about 4 per cent., a
reduction to which lower export
prices and higher import prices
contributed nearly equal shares.
Through the four quarters of
1956 there was a steady fall in
the terms-of-trade index.
The department urges special
efforts to increase exports of
manufactured goods and
promises continued assistance
and encouragement to manu-
facturers attempting to develop
markets overseas.
Incidentally, proposals are
now being considered for a
national trade conference to be
held in February or March and
to be followed by a trade-
mission to Australia. The idea
is to bring together all interests
commerce “and industry,
marketing organisations, ship-
ping and banking—to study
with the Government the
problems of export - trade
development. The mission to
Australia, if it comes off, will
have full Government support.
There is no likelihood that
N.Z.’s timber exports for
1957 will reach the record
1955 total. The probability is
that exports of sawn radiata-
pine, principally to Australia,
will equal those of last year,
which were about 6.4 million
board-feet down on the 38
million board-feet exported in
1955.
The director of forestry, Mr.
A. R. Entrican, in his annual
report says that the apparent
reason for the setback has been
a general decline in timber-use
throughout Australia, though
a deeper reason is that radiata-
pine is still regarded as a
marginal timber by most Aus-
tralian users other than box-
makers.
The increasing production of
locally-grown pine in all the
eastern States means that N.Z.
exporters now face greater
competition from within as well
as from without Australia, he
says.
He notes that there is con-
siderable room for improve-
ment in export-grading. Too
much timber is still reaching
Australia in a condition which
makes it susceptible to deteri-
oration either before or in use.
In an endeavor to overcome
the trouble the radiata-piiie
division of the Dominion
Sawmillers’ Federation has
called on all members to kiln-
dry construction-grade timber
and eliminate pith before
export.
Balance-of-Payments
N.Z.’s balance-of-payments
has recently been showing signs
of deterioration and there have
been suggestions that the
credit-squeeze may be intensi-
fied before long.
In the year to the end of
June net overseas assets
recovered by £13.4 million to
£113.1 million, but by the end
of August they were down
again to £97.9 million, only
£4 million more than in August
last year.
Foreign-exchange transac-
tions for the 12 months to the
end of August showed a deficit
of £1.9 million, only £500,000
less than the deficit for the
previous year to August. For
the month of August alone the
deficit was £9.1 million, com-
pared with only £2.7 million in
August, 1956.
Export-receipts are falling,
as usual, in the second half of
the year, but private imports
have been rising and are con-
tinuing to rise.
In the calendar-year 1956
private imports fell by 6.8 per
cent, to £230 million, an annual
figure which was still generally-
regarded as too high. But in
the first eight months of this
year they have risen by 11
per cent, over the comparable
figures for 1956. For August
alone they were £24.3 million,
£3.3 million more than in
August, 1956.
Many factors, including
higher incomes, relaxation of
controls, investment activity,
the normally rising demand of
an increasing population and
higher import prices might be
contributing to an upward
swing in imports, says the
Department of Industries and
Commerce in its annual report.
An additional reason, it says,
may lie in the fact that the
economy is becoming adapted
to the demands of credit-
restraint and increased stocks
are now necessary. Over-
buying, which resulted in
excessive stocks in some cases
one or two years ago, has been
restricted and stocks have in
general been reduced to the
minimum for working require-
ments 4
Any increase in stocks by
firms at present seems to be
a response to higher turnover,
and there are no indications
that there will be excessive
stocking in the immediate
future, the department says.
Credit-restraint has induced
close stock-control, and it is
doubtful whether it can signi-
ficantly reduce stocks further
without endangering produc-
tion.


A SHORT STORY
“YOUR MOVE, BOSS”
By J. P. CARROLL
IT would not be quite fair
to ascribe Wily Bill’s name
to a natural craftiness,
Plainly his character was
the victim of holding-down his
job as boss of the outstation
loco running-shed.
Nevertheless, this was little
consolation to Baldy Jack, the
roster-clerk. Begrudgingly he
admitted the bosses administra-
tive difficulties, but, equally
resentful, he bemoaned that
somehow when Wily Bill faced
a problem he, Baldy Jack, fell
for the solving of it.
So now, try as he would to
act detached, Baldy Jack knew
the argument in the office
between the boss and the
loco-union secretary would
soon swing his way.
“Then it’s agreed that Rogan
does the seven a.m. pilot,”
said the union-secretary.
“All right,” conceded Wily
Bill. “Since you quote the
award, I suppose it has to be.”
“That last bit is for my
benefit,” swore Baldy Jack to
himself. “He’s saved face on
the deal and now passes the
buck to, me.” He brooded over
his position as the other two
chatted the business to an
amicable conclusion—so far as
they were concerned.
In fact Wily Bill’s geniality
was just a little too much in
contrast with the darkness of
the roster-clerk’s mood.
This made Baldy Jack sourer
and soon exchanged his mount-
ing cynicism for an angry
refusal to be any longer a
football kicked between depart-
mental heads, shed-bosses and
union-secretaries.
By coincidence, Wily Bill
fired the first shot.
“Arrange for Rogan to do
the seven a.m. pilot tomorrow,”
he said cheerfully.
“Sure!” replied Baldy Jack
sarcastically. “Nothing to it.”
Then, addressing the union-
secretary, he continued the
attack.
“What about the light-duty
man I have to find a day-shift
turn for?”
. “I do my business with the
boss. For my part it’s all
settled,” the union-secretary
countered with a shrewd grin.
Not for him the trap of arguing
with a roster-clerk. “See y’
all,” he bowed out smartly.
TVDW left to face Baldy Jack
alone, the boss shifted
uneasily, for, like the rest of
the shed, he was never on sure
ground about rostering. He
knew it to be a specialist field
and, consequently, in having
the roster - clerk under his
control, only managed to hold
down the supervision, by a
shaky margin.
“Well! What about the light-
duty man?” Baldy Jack shot
out aggressively.
“Just work it out for Ihe
best all round. It’ll be right.”
The boss tried to pass over
the question and headed for
the door.
“I can’t work it out, sir!”
Wily Bill stiffened. In a
running-shed the courtesies of
address are as evident as paint
on the smoke-stained round-
house walls, and when anyone
called the boss “sir” it meant
Wily Bill had to be on his
guard.
“Can’t work' it out?” the
boss exclaimed, falsely amazed
and sparring desperately for a
break.
“Can’t work it out!” Qaldy
Jack repeated blandly, yet
determined not to break.
“Really,- now. You’re not
telling me the job is too big
for you.”
A slight point in favor of
the boss. But Baldy Jack stuck
to his guns. S
“Well, look here. We have
one day-shift shunting-job and
five day-shift road-jobs. One
driver is entitled to the shunt-
ing-job by rotation, but the
other has to have it as light-
duty by direction of the
medical-officer. Now! Who
goes on the road?” Baldy Jack
challenged.
When cornered never make
a decision was Wily Bill’s code
for a case like this. Answer
the question with another
question.
“Now!" You look here!
You heard the union-secretary's
threat that if Rogan doesn’t
get his rotation-shift we’ll be
up for an award breach. You
heard him also say that the
light-duty man is a depart-
mental liability and must get
a minimum of forty hours’ pay
even if he’s not found full-
time duties. Didn’t you?”
Baldy Jack, though, was
awake to the boss not commit-
ting himself, so countered with
the stalemate:
“And who,” he asked
decisively, “will answer the
blister for the light-duty man
being paid forty hours’ pay
for thirty-two hours’work?”
Trapped, Wily Bill had only
one way out. Substitute
aggression for reason was the
last resort of his code. So he
gave it his best.
“You’re the roster-clerk!
You’re supposed to be able to
handle these things,” he
shouted ; then thumped his fist
on the table and hopefully
rounded-off, “Is the job too big
for you?”
“No!” roared back Baldy
Jack. “But your bloody
thick-headed skull is.”
('Continued on page 57)


Australian Paper
Manufacturers Limited
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
HEAD OFFICE: Aikman Street, South Melbourne, Victoria.
Mills at Melbourne, Broadford, Fairfield and Maryvale, Victoria;
Botany, N.S.W.; Petrie, Queensland; and Bayswater, W.A.
HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE 1957 ANNUAL REPORT
(Forthe 12 months ended 30th June, 1957) X
Sales
7 per cent up on last year at 225,869 tons.
Production ....
«
Employees ....
Profit
Dividend
Selling Prices
Development..
Progress .
Papers and Boards 234,220 tons produced (up 13
per cent.).
Woodpulp - 87,898 tons (up 14 per cent.).
No production time lost through industrial stoppages. Big
improvement in safety record. Training programmes .
extended at all levels.
£1,858,959 £146,908 higher than last year. Profit as
a return on stockholders’ funds of £21,583,331, was 8.6
per cent., as compared with 8.2 per cent, in each of the
two previous years.
Dividend on ordinary stock raised from 7i per cent, to
8 per cent.
Rising costs offset materially by improved operating
efficiencies. Towards close of financial year necessary to
increase selling prices of some products.
Erection of the board mill at Petrie, Queensland, nearing
completion. Subsidiary Company, Western Paper Mills
Pty. Ltd. formed to purchase and operate a small mill at
Bayswater, W.A. A.P.M. joined with Cellulose Australia
Limited in a project, supported by South Australian
Government, to use softwood forest resources of South-
east of South Australia.
Company continued to increase its share of growing
market for paper and board in Australia. Sales office in
Perth completed chain in all mainland States. Close co-
operation with customers helping to extend use of paper
and board for packaging in many fields. More progress
with research and instrumentation. Forestry activity,
including development of both pine and eucalypt tree
farms, continued on an expanding scale.


The Fosj Tjat
got Away
By DOUGLAS STEWART
OF course it is always the
biggest and best fish
that get away; and
anyone who maintains
otherwise and disbelieves an
angler when he says he has lost
a trout of half-a-ton knows not
the running streams and the
wiles of their inhabitants.
They get away simply
because they are so big, these
escaped monsters that haunt
our dreams. They leap and the
hook tears out. They race for
rapids and waterfalls, down
from one pool to another fifty-
yards away, and the frail cast
breaks when you try to check
them. They are old and cun-
ning and live among snagsfrom
which no angler can extricate
them. They have been hooked
before and know the exact pro-
cedure for circumventing you.
Or do they? Certainly it
seems so. There was that dis-
astrous day at Fred’s on the
Badja—Fred’s is the name of
a pool; and the Badja is near
Cooma —when, to start the
day’s disasters, a fine big
rainbow rushed straight under
some submerged rock-ledge
and instantly cut the cast.
There was the day when,
even more determinedly going
through what seemed a long-
established routine, that
brown-trout, no more than a
three- or four-pounder but
wonderfully strong and speedy,
dashed upstream from the pool
where I hooked him in the
Tangatara long ago, whizzing
uncontrollably through the
shallow rapid, to the tangle of
a fallen tree, where of course
he broke me.
But I cannot quite believe
that fish, even those battle-
scarred old ten- and twelve-
pounders that are sometimes
caught, bristling with flies
snapped off in their former
victories, remember being
hooked and what they did to
break free.
There was a kahawai, the
sea-fish miscalled “salmon” in
Australia, which, hauled flap-
ping ashore at the mouth of the
Awakino where the river
curves through the black sands
to meet, past the headland, the
creaming breakers of Tara-
naki’s west coast, provided me
once with a remarkable
illustration of the short
memories of fish.
In a little rock-pool I had
half - a - dozen . live herring,
themselves apparently little
disturbed by their recent
transfer from the river,
swimming about for bait.
These are the kahawai’s
natural food ; and when I put
my fine green kahawai into the
pool he at once, obviously
without a thought for the
experience of taking a hook,
being hauled ashore and
travelling 100yds. or so over
the sands, set about chasing
those herrings up and down and
around the pool until he had
gobbled the lot.
Apparently the one thought
in his fishy brain, if it can be
called a thought, was that
kahawai eat herring. I had
to knock him on the head and
operate on him to retrieve my
bait.
Of course any fish of the
ocean is but a pobr relation of
the trout, coarser in habit,
dimmer in wit. But I recall in
that same river a trout —and a
rainbow at that whose
memory seemed equally short.
Those were the glorious days
of late summer when, far up
the river where it runs through
scrub into the ridges of the
wild pigs, there were apples and
green beetles dropping into the
water all day long; and when,
though hardly interested in
apples, the trout rose con-
tinually for the beetles.
We had learned, George
Palmer and I, that the fly
known as Peveril-of-the-Peak
was more acceptable - no
doubt for its greenish body
rather than its black-and-white
wings—than the official imita-
tion of the green beetle ; and
at a bend of the stream where a
rapid flung its shining ripples
into a backwater I hooked
with my Peve r i 1 a four-
pounder: a leaping, flashing
great rainbow which broke
free just when I was bringing
it to the net. Half-an-hour
later I came back to the rapid,
fished the same spot again with
the same fly, hooked the same
fish—l have no doubt what-
ever about that; and of course
every angler has had the same
experience—and, this time,
landed it.
EUT then, if trout have no
recollection at all of
having been hooked, how is
one to explain the conduct of
those titans which, so it seems,
have grown too wise ever to
rise to a bait?
There were four or five
wonderful brown-trout, six-
pounders each of them, if not
more, at which, when I lived
in New Zealand, we used to
gaze from the road-bridge over
the Kaupokonui every Sunday
on our way out to fish the
more generous waters of the
Tangatara, the-Mangahume or
the Waiau. Nothing, when we
tackled them, would induce
those fish to move: no fly, dry
or wet, no spinning Devon or
Wisden, no “creeper” from
under a stone, not the fattest
worrti from the fowlyard.
Had they been hooked a
hundred times and become
utterly scornful of all the
clumsy mechanisms of fisher-
men? Could they instantly
detect in their dim underworld
the sheen of an all - but -
invisible gut cast, the shaft of
the tiniest brown hook? Was
it, as I am more inclined to
believe, that we never tried
them with the rigjjt bait at the
right time? Or was it, since
they lived immediately below
the Kaponga dairy-factory and
fed on curd—a deplorable
habit of Taranaki trout —that
they were so bloated with this
degenerate diet that they were
never interested in anything
else?
One answer is as good as
another; but there they
remained, perhaps there to this
day they remain, those
colossal, shadowy fish in their
pool below the cliff, sombre,
mysterious and uncatchable.
And how they do haunt the
mind, these fish that were
never landed! In fishing it is
as in any other art: mankind
demands a conclusion to its
dramas so that, at least within
the limited area selected for
the battleground, the universe
may make sense. The hero and
the heroine of the romantic
novel must be married; the
master criminal must be
caught and, offstage, hanged ;
even Hamlet must kill the
king at last: and the fish, if
he is not to wander for ever in
limbo, floating loose to the
surface of dreams, must be
brought to the net; and, I
think, for we partake of the
nature of the cat —not to say
the lion —not merely grassed
but brought home to be
admired and devoured by the
spouse and the children.
Even a sea-fish, if it is
large enough or lost in circum-
stances sufficiently bizarre,
haunts the mind like an un-
finished symphony, like
“Kubla Khan,” with romantic
unfulfilment.
I remember a gigantic
coral-cod, twenty pounds, per-
haps, or sixty for all I know,
which a gallant lady-angler,
from our tourist-launch rock-
ing in the swell „ off an
outcrop of the Barrier Reef,
hauled up inch by inch until,
just as 'll was near enough to
the surface for us to glimpse,
it straightened the hook and,
ghostly and gigantic, sank
back to the depths again like
the Old Man of the Sea.
I remember some fish un-
known (a kingfish I always
hoped, for I have never caught
one of thak noble tribe) which,
superbly powerful and heavy,
raced away with my line


through the blue waters off
Red Head at Russell until it
reached that point I dreaded
where (to my eternal shame)
there was a tangle on the reel;
and, straining prodigiously on
the line for a moment while I
waited for the inevitable to
happen, snapped the strong
cuttyhunk and away.
I remember a stout snapper
at Kawhia, not an outsize for
those waters where I once saw
an ugly grey twenty-pounder
caught on a set line off the
jetty at night, but a noble red
twelve- or fourteen-pounder
all the same, which when it
broke free and swirled back into
the ocean came near enough
to taking me with it. . .
You could only fish from the
Beacon at Kawhia at dead low-
tide, ; otherwise
the pull of the sea, pouring
into the great flat bottle of the
harbor through those narrow
heads, was too strong ,to let
you keep a line on the bottom.
But round the point from the
Beacon was a tiny bay, sheltered
by rocks from the tide, and
there, filling-in time till slack-
water, I hooked my snapper.
The deep water, where an
occasional fish would wander
past on its way to the sub-
merged mussel-reef off the
Beacon, lay over a steep sand-
bank ; and in the excitement I
hardly noticed that my hand-
line was cutting deeper and
deeper into the sand as I
pulled one way and the snapper
the other. It cut in so deep at
last that it stuck fast, just where
the hooks were tied. The fish
was anchored to the sandbank.
I * could see it weaving in
the green water, huge and pale.
Instead of giving it some slack
line, when I daresay it would
have pulled itself clear, I
heaved on the line till I broke
it at the top hook —there were
three big hooks in a row, about
nine inches apart. I said good-
bye to that fish ; but there he
still was, incredibly, swirling
about on the bottom hook, still
anchored to the sandbank. I
rushed waist-deep into the
water, plunged my hand down
to grab that line bristling with
hooks, wrenched it free of the
sand and for a moment stood
holding the fish on the line at
the edge of the bank. He looked
enormous ; it was like holding
a wild horse.
Then with a mighty flurry,
wrenching at the line in my
grasp, he straightened the hook
out and disappeared into the
green depths; and it was only
then, or afterwards recapturing
him on the edge of sleep, that
the interesting possibility
occurred to me that if he had
heaved just a fraction harder,
making the line slip in my
hand where I grasped it between
the two top hooks, he might
well have hooked me, too ; and
both of us could have gone
together from the sandbank.
How you would fight your
way back to the shore hooked
to a twelve-pound snapper in
deep water, I don’t quite know ;
but —like some of the big-game
fishermen who have occasion-
ally got themselves tangled with
a swordfish at Russell —it would
have been a great catch for the
fish.
But if a snapper or a
potential kingfish, hooked by
blind chance in the obscure
immensity of the ocean, can
thus sometimes make himself
memorable, how much more so
is the solitary trout, whose
capture, if you are not just
insipidly dangling a worm, is
the drama of one man against
one fish, seen rising or feeding
in his clear element and fished
for with all the skill and finesse
at your command—scared by
a single rash movement, the
stumble of a foot, the shadow
of the rod, a crinkle of the
cast or the tiniest splash of the
fly upon the surface ; capricious
in his choice of food needing
infinite care, in the midst of
all the excitement, to bring to
the net with your light tackle ;
never safe even then, until he
is lifted clear out of the water
without fumbling or clumsi-
ness, then unhooked with a
firm grip in his gills well up
the bank away from the rushes
through which he can still
wriggle back to the river . . .
always notable in his capture
and doubly so if you lose him.
There are the trout that (more
legitimately memorable than
the sluggish monsters at
Kaponga, which took no
interest in fishing) rise once to
look at the bait and then are
seen no more: like that hugest
—or so I believe ; and I will
swear to it with my hand upon
the holy book of Izaak Walton
—that hugest of all my losses
which I saw once and never
again one golden morning in
the Tangatara.
I dropped my worifi that
morning into the head of a
small pool, just above the
shallows where the cattle
crossed ; and, as I watched the
bait go slowly turning in the
current to where the pool
deepened against the yellow
clay bank, something so
enormous rose up, floated up,
loomed up leisurely from the
bottom, with mouth agape,
with brown fins gently waver-
ing on the vast pale spotted
body that I could hardly believe
it was a trout. It looked
altogether fabulous: ten pounds,
twelve pounds, I could not have
denied that it was a twenty-
pound fish such things are
possible.. And as it rose, stead-
fast and fabulous, there was no
doubt whatever that it meant
to take the bait.
Somehow I moved. I twitched
the rod with the slightest
involuntary movement; the
worm twitched with it, just the
slightest jerk away from the
mighty jaws that were even then
closing upon it; and down,
slowly down, without flurry as
befitted his dignity, but irre-
vocably down and down, fading
out of sight again, sank that
great fish for ever.
I cast again and again. I
crept upstream and—reputedly
an infallible device —simulated
a flood by stirring mud into the
current, down which I let my
worm float as if newly washed
in from the bank. I tried what
flies I had ; I tried the minnow.
But never again that day or
any other day could I rouse that
triton from the depths.
Then, too, there are the fish
that go further than this vision
of the Tangarakau and,
momentarily before you lose
them, take the worm, the fly
or the spinner and calmly spit
it out again ; or, hooked for
one wild second, break free in
the first leap: like that delec-
table rainbow I lost high up the
Awakino, the day I caught a
six-pounder.
I do not, I am relieved to say,
claim this fish to have been a
twenty-pounder. But whether it
was two pounds lighter than my
six-pounder or, as I swore at the
time in the first agony of losing
him, two pounds heavier, he
\Vas a notable fish; and the
way he appeared and vanished
makes him a peculiarly
poignant memory: for away
up there among the ranges,
wading down the silver waters
through the bush, I floated a
locust lightly down the current
and, just where the stream
divided at a big rock, bang
went the locust, high in the
air behind the rock as the reel
screamed leapt the beautiful
shining trout —and that, as he
tossed the hook out, was the
o Continued on page 56)


WILL WE BE ABLE TO MAKE
CUSTOM-BUILT RAIN?
IT has always been one of
Man’s chief criticisms of
Nature that it does not exercise
much care or discrimination in
the distribution of rain.
Attempts to obtain a
distribution more nearly related
to what men consider their just
needs have been made in most
countries, in varying manner —
by prayer, propitiation, witch-
doctor magic and by firing
cannon at clouds. Success has
been claimed for all methods,
though usually unassociated
with any scientific proof.
It is only in recent years that
scientists have turned their
minds to tackling the
problem systematically on a
long-term basis. In Australia
this means conducting experi-
ments in years of “normal”
rainfall to see if some way
can be devised of inducing
unwilling rain to fall in time
of drought. There is reason to
believe that in this respect Aus-
tralian “rainmakers” are prob-
ably ahead of most of the
world, though unfortunately
they have not yet reached the
stage of being able to deliver
a custom-built inch of rain to a
client’s order.
The. possibility that the
country may be about to
experience a drought after a
long succession of good seasons
has focused attention on the
experiments of the radiophysics
division of C.5.1.R.0. which,
under Dr. Bowen, has for
several years been making an
intensive study of the clouds
which produce rain in an
endeavor to determine the con-
ditions necessary for artificial
rainmaking. Dr. F. W. G.
White, deputy-chairman of
C.5.1.R.0., said recently that
when the experiments began
there was very little precise
knowledge of the actual process
by which Nature produces rain.
Everyone, of course, knows
that clouds consist of water-
vapor which under certain con-
ditions falls as rain. The
problem was to find exactly
what those conditions are and
how, if at all, they can be
aitificially produced.
The old idea of firing cannon
at. clouds was apparently based
on the assumption that a
cloud was a kind of bagful of
moisture which had only to be
punctured and it would spill
out its rain.
C.5.1.R.0. research has
shown that before natural rain
can occur it is necessary for a
very large number of the tiny
droplets the diameter of
which is less than one-
thousandth of an inch —to be
converted into a smaller
number a hundred or more
times bigger. This doesn’t
happen through any. desire of
the droplets for closer
acquaintance with each other ;
it’s largely a matter of tempera-
ture. And even the bigger
droplets don’t necessarily fall
as rain. In fact they seem to
have the ability to stay liquid
at well below freezing-point—
and to remain aloft *in what is
called a supercooled cloud.
It is only when they are
transformed into ice-crystals
which grow—by collision —into
snowflakes that rain becomes
imminent. These, falling
though the warmer layers of
the cloud, melt into drops big
enough to fall as rain.
Elementary school lessons?
Not quite! It used to be
thought that the freezing and
melting was an automatic
process, but the researchers
have found that a necessary
condition is the presence of
“freezing nuclei” in the cloud.
These are minute impurities
(specks of matter) on which the
ice-crystals can form. Dr.
Bowen thinks that the most
important source of these is
meteoric dust provided by the
showers of meteors which enter
and are disintegrated in the
earth’s atmosphere. He claims
that periods of world-wide high
rainfall occur about 30 days
after intense meteor activity.
The technique of “rain-
making” as practised by the
C.5.1.R.0. consists of providing
the clouds with artificial
nuclei. One “starter” that has
been proved effective is dry-
ice (frozen carbon-dioxide).
When pellets of dry-ice
(temperature minus-80° Centi-
grade) are dropped from a
plane into supercooled clouds
each one produces millions of
tiny ice-crystals. Rain can be
induced in this way, but at a
hopelessly uneconomic cost. A
much more likely answer is the
use of silver-iodide crystals,
which have been proved
capable of starting ice-crystal
formation at a temperature of
minus- 5° C. The importance
of this is that “natural” ice-
crystal formation seems to
require a temperatufe at least
as low as minus- 15° C., so that
it is reasonable to assume th it
rain which falls from clouds
of a higher temperature than
minus-\s° C. after seeding
with silver-iodide would not
have fallen without the seeding.
Although it is possible to
induce rain artificially from
warm clouds, no economic
method has so far been dis-
covered, and the C.5.1.R.0.
men are concentrating on
supercooled clouds. They
have satisfied themselves
that on hundreds of occasions
rain has fallen from clouds
they 'have seeded. How-
ever, from the viewpoint of both
the scientist and the practical
man that is scarcely enough, as
there is no proof that rain
would not have fallen from
those clouds later, even if they
had not been doctored. For
reason the long-term
experiment being conducted in
the Snowy Mountains area is
very important.
In 1955 two areas, each
about 1000 sq. miles in extent,
were selected, as nearly similar
as possible in topography and
natural rainfall. Since then
the southern area of the two
has been periodically seeded
when conditions have been
favorable—that is, when cloud
conditions over both areas are
good and when the wind is
blowing from the west, ensur-
ing that the silver-iodide
smoke will be carried over the
southern area only. No seed-
ing is done over the northern
area, which is merely the
“control” area. The occasions
for seeding are chosen at
random from those deemed
suitable this enables the
normal chance variation in
rainfall to be allowed-for in
the analysis of results. The
experiment has been carried on
through three winters and the
results are described as
“distinctly promising,” though
a longer period will be needed
for a final verdict.
In addition to this long-
range project, short-term experi-
ments have been conducted with
the C.5.1.R.0. Anson aircraft
and R.A.A.F. Dakotas in many
districts, in co-operation with
the State Agricultural Depart-
ments. Areas recently seeded
in these emergency operations
include the Darling Downs in
Queensland ; Tamworth, Gun-
nedah and Parkes in N. S.
Wales ; Nhill in Victoria and
the Mt. Lofty Ranges and
Lower North areas of South
Australia.
These should be regarded
as emergency measures. If
drought conditions continue
there will probably be 'many
more of them and the degree of
their success will naturally vary.
It will, however, be completely
unfair to those engaged in the
work to judge the whole pro-
ject by tbe success or failure
of these attempts to alleviate
local distress. The main
experiments will continue and
data collected from the other
flights will no doubt be of
value to the rainmakers even if
the results are negative. It
will never be possible to pro-
duce rain out of a blue sky, but
what the scientists are aiming
at is to harness the clouds
which even in time of drought
appear in the sky, raising the
hopes of a thirsty land and then
pass over without offering it a
drink.


DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents^
SYDNEY w. C. Penfold St Co. PtJ, Ltd.
MELBOURNE • Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE * . Vardon Price Ltd.
PERTH • Docket Book Co. (Anst.)
DERBY
DAY
AT RANDWICK RACECOURSE
SATURDAY, sth OCTOBER
SEE THE BEST THREE-YEAR-OLDS COMPETE
IN THE FAMOUS CLASSIC EVENT
Special tram service into the Course from Circular
Quay and Railway
Special buses will leave Bondi Junction at
frequent intervals
Racecourse gates will open at 10 a.m.
MONDAY, 7th OCT.: THE METROPOLITAN
WEDNESDAY, 9th OCT.: GEO. MAIN STAKES
SATURDAY, 12th OCT.: CRAVEN PLATE
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses—Sydney
'T'HE A.J.C. will distribute
approximately £52,000 over
the four days of its spring
racing carnival, due to begin
next Saturday with the running
of the £lO,OOO Derby, the
£5OOO Epsom Handicap, the
£2OOO Breeders’ Plate and the
£2OOO w.-f.-a. Colin Stephen
Stakes.
• • • •
Next Monday’s programme
features the £6OOO Metropoli-
tan Handicap and the £2OOO
Gimcrack Stakes, the season’s
first race for two-year-old
fillies.
• • • •
Tulloch’s toughest opponents
in next Saturday’s A.J.C. Derby
appear to be Turkestan (he won
the mile-and-a-quarter Rose-
hill Cup against older horses),
Young Idealist (third to Red-
craze and Timor in the Hill
Stakes) and Prince Darius (he
didn’t race at Rosehill on
Saturday).
Turkestan’s performance was
full of merit: he carried 7.7
(21b. over) and ran the distance
in close to record time, after
overcoming difficulties in the
straight. He had to be extri-
cated from tight pockets to
land the money, which he did
in style suggesting the extra
two furlongs of the classic
distance won’t trouble him. His
stable is more than quietly con-
fident.
Trainer Frank Dalton, Young
Idealist’s mentor, seems equally
confident after that colt’s run
at Rosehill, and here it’s im-
portant to consider that the
rangy New Zealand colt has
been trained specifically for the
Derby.
The best recommendation
that Prince Darius has for the
Derby, outside a swag of good
form that includes a w.-f.-a.
win over Redcraze, is his liking
for Randwick. The Prince
attacks the Randwick straight
with more enthusiasm than the
average moke attacks his oats
—which gives him a solid
chance of making a race of it
at the business end of Satur-
day’s mile-and-a-half.
Landy shared favoritism with
the winner, Teranyan, in the
Rosehill Theo Marks Handi-
cap, and though he finished
only fourth, he lost no follow-
ing for the A.J.C. Epsom
Handicap. The bulky chest-
nut appeared to be travelling
comfortably all the way, and
was less than a length from
Teranyan at the finish. A.s he
carried 9.4 at Rosehill and
drops to 8.7 in the Epsom,
Landy has only to retain fitness
to be the big noise in the
Randwick mile. A drop of
1 lib. means a lot in the Epsom,
one of Australia’s toughest
miles.
• • • •
Weight-for-age form as a
guide to handicaps has been
confusing since time was. But
Timor’s performance against
Redcraze in the Hill Stakes at
Rosehill was so good that it
has to be given weight as an
Epsom guide. In second place
after doing all the heavy work,
he hung grimly to the cham-
pion to be beaten only a half-
length.
Timor met Redcraze on level
terms —each carried 9.4 ; in the
Randwick mile Timor drops to
Bst. —lSlb. less on his back.
Before the Hill Stakes Timor
had won three middle-distance
races (one a dead-heat).
• •
Had Todman been the sound
horse he was when winning
his sequence of races he would
not have missed a place in the
Hill Stakes at Rosehill. But
a champion, as much as any
ordinary moke, needs to be at
the top of his fettle to produce
his best; and on Saturday
Todman was a long way short
of his best.
At no stage of the race did
he look a winner. When Sell-
wood sensed the position he
eased the colt to the line, a
tired horse.
• • • •
Redcraze, on the other hand,
was given a Melbourne Cup
reception: the win made him
Australia’s record stakes-
winner, with £66,931. Rising
Fast’s £66,765 was best before
the running of the Hill Stakes.
Redcraze has now had 79 races
for 30 wins, and he should add
the Colin Stephen Stakes to
his list next Saturday before he
trips to Melbourne with the
Cup his mission.
• • • •
Surprise of the Rosebery
two-year-old trials was the
defeat of Mighty Kingdom by
Murchison, a Fair’s Fair geld-
ing from T. J. Smith’s stable.
Carrying the colors of Adolph
Basser, Mighty Kingdom was
regarded a certainty after an
easy win in a Randwick
barrier - trial. However,
Murchison, who gave him
several lengths start from the
three furlongs, came home well
to beat him in fine style. The
time, 48isec., was a second
slower than that made by two
other winners—Man of Iron
and Andabri. Man of Iron had
the advantage of first use of
the track, but he came through
his trial with flying colors. A
good-type gelding by the new
sire Flying Missel (Am.), he’s
out of Canvas Back (imp.), and
so is a half-brother to the
brilliant Kingster.
Best filly of the trials was
Andabri, to be raced by Mrs.
B. H. Crowley. A filly by Star
Kingdom, (imp.) from Elmshall,
she is being trained at Rand-
wick by Jack Green. Her
equalled the time of
Man Of Iron, fastest of the
colts and geldings. She should
be hard to beat in early races
for her sex. Cherry Bank, a
McCarten-trained filly, who
had won a Randwick trial,
repeated the performance at
Rosebery; she could develop
into a smart galloper.
Brothers and sisters of the
mighty Shannon have won
races, but very infrequently.
Bernbrook did, however, win
the A.J.C. Doncaster and
Lysander the City Tattersall’s
Cup ; another, Canute, proved
a poor relative. Streamy,
youngest racing member of the
family—by Midstream (imp.)
from Idle Words by Magpie
(imp.)—has made a useful start.
She had her initial success in
a Warwick Farm midweek
three-year-old Maiden for
fillies (worth £517), and held
off Lady Damnos in a tight
finish.
•• ] •
—and Melbourne
AT Caulfield last Thursday
Syntax won the w.-f.-a.
Underwood Stakes in a hand
canter. He accounted for much
the same field as Sailor’s Guide
SPRING FANCIES
Epsom : LANDY, 1 ;
Timor, 2 ; Teranyan, 3.
Derby: TULLOCH, 1;
Turkestan, 2; Young
Idealist, 3.
The Metropolitan:
CARANNA, 1 ; Book Link,
2 ; Macdougal, 3.


had defeated at Remington the
previous Saturday, and with
equal ease. The clash between
the two champions in the Turn-
bull Stakes at Flemington next
Saturday is sure to attract a
large crowd. Both stables are
confident of success. The
result will have an important
effect on Caulfield Cup dis-
cussions. In this writer’s view
Syntax will again prove too
good for the Bendigo horse.
Racing at Moonee Valley
last Saturday partially
answered the question posed
here two weeks ago: How good
a galloper is Top Fred?
Following his effortless victory
in the mile Chandos Handicap
_ (his sixth win in only eight
starts) it is apparent that the
five-year-old* Frederick John
gelding has ability much above
the average.
With the exception of Ray
Ribbon, who has some preten-
sions to class, the field he
defeated on Saturday was not
of much account; but Top
Fred coasted home six lengths
ahead of Ray Ribbon, with
the rest of . the runners
straggling. Bookmakers were
sufficiently impressed by the
run to lift Top Fred to fourth
place in Caulfield Cup discus-
sions, with only the champions
—Syntax, Tulloch and Sailor’s
Guide —preferred to him ; a
meteoric rise for a horse whose
price a few weeks ago was a
new car to, a fiver.
» • • •
The question remains
whether Top Fred can get the
Caulfield Cup mile-and-a-half.
On his sire’s side he is bred
well enough to win anything.
He is by Frederick John, whose
sire John James was by
Buchan, an outstanding dis-
tance performer on English
courses, out of Compote, a
daughter of 1920 Melbourne
Cup winner Poitrel from
Comedienne by Comedy King
(winner of the 1910 Melbourne
Cup) # On his dam’s side Top
Fred is much less fashionably
bred. In fact, his dam, Top
Court, is not in the stud-book.
She is by the Heroic horse
Top Hole from Full Court by
Double Court. With only 7.6
to carry, Top Fred is entitled
to respect in the Caulfield Cup.
This year’s Invitation Stakes,
run at Caulfield last Thursday,
went to the four-year-old mare
Luire. The result surprised
most racegoers, who conceded
ability up to six
furlongs, but believed she would
be found wanting over the last
furlong of the race. West Aus-
tralian jockey Frank Treen
rode a heady race on the
winner, using her early pace
to get a rails run throughout,
and holding the mare together
over the last 100yds. when a
determined challenge came
from Neville Sellwood’s mount,
Mac’s Amber.
Victoria’s hopes for success
in this year’s classic events
were dampened with the
running of the £2600 mile
Moonee Valley Stakes. The
race was considered an A.J.C.
Derby trial for Good Summer,
who went out an odds-on
favorite. The gelding could
do no better than a distant
“ Wouldn’t it! Took our lust Worm!”
third to Gay Saba and Well
Spent, and has now forfeited
the Sydney trip.
Trainer Stan Smithers is
probably right in his opinion
that Good Summer does, not
measure up to the Sydney
colts, but Saturday’s run was
not a true guide to the Summer-
time gelding’s ability. He was
all at sea in the heavy going,
and indeed was lucky to keep
his feet around the .slippery
turn. He will do better over
the roomy stretches at Fleming-
ton.
As stated here after his
previous win, Gay Saba’s
owner, Bill Balloch, is another
who considers the Sydney form
too good to tackle. Gay Saba
will stay at home for the Vic-
toria Derby. Incidentally,
Balloch also won the Moonee
Valley Stakes 20 years ago, with
Lochiee.
There are few better sprinters
in the land than the South
Australian Matr i c e, who
lumped 10.9 on a holding track
to an effortless victory in the
first Nulla Nulla Welter at
Moonee Valley, a performance
more remarkable when it is
remembered that the Masthead
horse was having his first start
for seven months. Matrice has
weak front joints, and trainer
Des Judd is anxious to keep
him away from handicaps in
which he would have to carry
heavy burdens. It is likely that
the horse will be given his
chance against the champions
in the £3OOO Caulfield Stakes
on the middle day of the
Caulfield Cup meeting. Matrice
has won in stakes the hand-
some sum of £25,090, unusually
good for a sprinter ; he’s had
25 wins in 41 starts.
Next Saturday at Flemington
the new colts and fillies wiil
step out in public for the first
time in divisions of the Mari-
byrnong Trial Stakes. One
heat is for colts and geldings
(they carry 8.9), the other for
fillies (weighted at 8.4). With
no form to guide them, most
punters will follow the market,
a pretty reliable pointer in these
races,.
South Australia’s'star three-
year-old filly Cherete will begin
her spring programme in the
Edward Manifold Stakes. She
is expected to make a clean
sweep of the set-weight events
for fillies this spring, and will
certainly be the popular choice
in next Saturday’s race.
The V.A.T.C. has published
its annual report, which reveals
that the club showed a profit
of £15,830 from 15 meetings
—satisfactory enough in view
of the heavy burden of taxa-
tion the V.A.T.C. bears in
common with all racing clubs.
The club distributed £170,675
in prizemoney.
And Sundry Sports
SPORTING dragnet: Stan
Bonney, of Richmond (Vic.),
won the Warinambool-Melbourne
professional road-cycling race.
Bonney, who had also won in 1949,
became the first cyclist to win the
event twice. Fastest time in this
year’s race (6hrs. 6min. 12sec.) was
by Russell Mockridge, oft scratch —
Mockridge, who also had fastest
time last year, is in great form....
At New, York, in a tough, slogging
match, former world welterweight
champion Carmen Basilio out-
pointed “Sugar” Ray Robinson to
win the world middleweight title.
In Feb., 1951, Robinson, by
knocking out Jake La Motta, had
similarly stepped up from the
welter division to head the middle-
weights Port Adelaide won its
fourth successive Adelaide Aus-
tralian Rules premiership, defeating
old rivals Norwood 15.15-13.16 in
the grand-final. In the V.F.A. pre-
liminary-final, between other tradi-
tional rivals, Port Melbourne easily
sank a very watery Williamstown
18.12-6.12; the Seagulls thus miss-
ing-out on their chance of a fourth
successive premiership In N.Z.,
at Rugby Union,Taranaki beat Otago
11-9 to win the Ranfurly Shield.
.... Maitland won Newcastle’s
Rugby League premiership, defeat-
ing Kurri 17-12 Balgownie beat
Granville 1-0, to win the Association
Soccer Sydney Cup.... Olympic
walker Ted Allsopp won the Vic-
torian 50-kilometres championship,
in 4hrs. 23min. 38sec., a new Aus-
tralian record and only 2jmrn. out-
side the world-record. In an
athletic meeting at Northbridge
(Sydney) between four G.P.S.
schools, the first three place-getters
in the mile-run (wen by H. Rouse,
of King’s) all bettered the G.P.S.
mile-record In Melbourne South
Australia won the Australian basket-
ball championship, beating runner-
up Victoria 83-52 in the final
match At Wembley (Eng.), m
professional tennis, Rosewall beat
Segura in a match, 1-6,
6-4, 3-6, 6-4 in the singles-final.
Segura had earlier beaten
Gonzales in another tussle.
The doublcs-title was won by Hoad-
Rosewall, defeating Segura-Kramer,
3-6, 6-8, 6-2, 6-1, 6-2.... The Aus-
tralian land-speed record of 146.7
m.p.h., set in 1930, was broken by
two drivers at the C.O.R. speed-
trials at Coonabarabran (N.S.W.).
Top speed was A. Davison’s 152.5
m.p.h., in a Ferrari.
* * *
A scorching mile by North.
Sydney Tech.’s 16-year-old
John Lucas capped a swag of
good performances at this
year’s C.H.S. Athletics Carni-
val, held at the Sydney Cricket
Ground last week. Lucas, who
had the day before run an
amazing 1.57 to take the open
880, left the mile behind in
4min. 23.65ec. Seven other
records were broken on the
same afternoon. On October
12 the G.P.S. Athletics Carnival
will be held on the S.C.G., and
this, too, promises to be an
afternoon of record-breaking
athletics.
* * *
“Nedrium”: At times it’s
not far short of a dogfight
between the three football
codes in North Queensland, all
of them striving for a larger
slice of public support. Rugby


S (8
1
m. tm
■
m
m
1
■
■ V
£
1
n
/ n
. ,
What a
•c* . *
difference
they
make!
SELF-SUPPORTING AND
HAVE RUSTPROOF BUCKLES
EVERY SEAM IS
SERGED WITH AN OVERIOCK STITCH
You can see that difference. The first time you wear Stamina
Self-Supporting Trousers, you’ll know they are the most com-
fortable, attractive slacks you’ve ever had. That’s what happens
when fine fabrics are expertly cut and handsomely finished by
tailoring craftsmen. They fit perfectly. They look smarter.
Try a pair. See what a difference they make to you.
'them
uduxt]
• VX;.
A*
X
H
Available in all
the most wanted
shades:
Light Green Zircon
Nutmeg Fawn
Harbour Blue
Dark Green Reseda
Mist Grey
CLOTHES
alii
■ .
TA.113
TAILORED PROM CRUSADER CLOTH
League, well entrenched, sits
prettiest because it was first in
But Soccer, drawing new
strength from migrants, and
’Rules, a relative newcomer now
drawing confidently on the
large population of migrants
from southern States, are offer-
ing strong opposition. None of
this seems to worry 20-year-
old Jim Kennedy, of Towns-
ville : he started playing centre-
forward in Soccer, switched to
Rugby League (cenl re-three-
quarter, on Sundays) and then
had a run with an Aussie Rules
side (fullback, on Saturdays).
He’d be in a dilemma if chosen
for a Foley Shield (League) and
Nielson Cup (’Rules) rep. side
in games to be played on the
same day.
“R.A.C.”: East Fremantle’s
Jack Clarke, who won the
W.A. Sandover Medal (B.
25/9/’57), after a count-back,
from East Perth’s Graham
Farmer (last year’s winner), is
a 26-year-old, 6ft. 3in. ruck-
man ; a farmer at Jennacub-
bine, about 100 miles from
Perth. He has to travel to
matches and training each week
by car. One of the best players
against the Victorians this year,
he has been given an all-
Australian blazer. Jim Con-
way, the last East Fremantle
player to win the medal, also
won on a count-back from an
East Perth man, Frank Allen.
Conway has lately been coach-
ing a country team in N. S.
Wales.
“A.U.A.”: This year’s
rivalry between S.A. ’Rules
sides Norwood and Port
Adelaide is not new. The
A d.e lai d e “Advertiser”
recorded a near-final game in
1907, in which Norwood
defeated Port Adelaide 7.14-
6.6, and noted among the best
players for Norwood three
who were later to make
a name for themselves
in other spheres. Essington
Lewis became during World
War II Director-General of
Munitions, Director-General of
Aircraft Production and chair-
man of the Aircraft Advisory
Committee ; Lionet Hill became
S.A. Premier in 1926-27 and
1930-33 —the only A.L.P man
to be twice Premier of S.A.;
and Bruce Townsend, with pacy
bowling and lusty batting,
gained several years’ selection
in the State XL
If any 44 Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.


The OVERLANDER SONG
BOOK: 58 songs with music. Aus-
tralian folk songs, including songs
of the Shearers, Drovers, Bush-
rangers, Diggers, Station Hands,
Convict Days. 127 pages,
illustrated. 8/- post free.
GEORGIAN HOUSE,
Publishers,
Box 52, Albert Park, Vic.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established. 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
fChairmarl) F- W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
SIRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND. Managing Director. N E. MANiON, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy the following: copy of
I lota of South Australia (Part I,
second edition), by J. M. Black; a
third-farthing piece, to complete a
set of coins.—6s93.
To buy copy of Tobruk, by
Chester Wilmot. —6594.
Information Supplied
Two answers to the Service Page
inquiry of B. 28/8/’57 —“Where in
Sydney was the old Coffee Palace,
and anything of special interest
about it?”
From W. H. Watson, 28 Rose-
mont Street, Wollongong (N.S.W.):
Gripps’ Coffee Palace was at the
Circular Quay end of Pitt Street.
Gus Buckham’s Oriental Hotel was
on the corner of Pitt Street, opposite
the Commissary Stores, where all
the stones had cut into them the
numbers of the convicts who shaped
them. Alongside the Commissary
Stores were H. S.. Bird and Co.,
shipping providores, then Mitchell
and Co., ships’ chandlers. They had
a frontage to George and Pitt
Streets, which was used as a public
thoroughfare. Next door was
Dynon’s crockery-shop, and then
Gripps’ Coffee Palace. Next along
was H. P. Gregory, and then Crane
and Sons —I think they owned every-
thing up to Underwood Street,
opposite the old Bulletin office in
Pitt Street. There was a fire at
Gripps’ Coffee Palace in 1887 and
again in 1900; they cleaned-up both
properties. Incidentally, it was
nothing for one of the boys of the
village to come in and say, “Your
pigs are over in Pitt Street feeding
on the grass along the footpath.”
1 might add that I was born at
Watson’s Paragon Hotel in 1875.
From “Ballyhoo”:
The Coffee Palace was in Clarence
Street, not far from King Street.
Later, acquiring a liquor licence, it
was called The Grand Central and
was a favorite haunt of country
folk, especially North Coasters.
Fifty years ago one could get a bed
there for 2s. a night and a very
satisfying meal for Is. 9d. One night
there was a spectacular blaz© next-
door in Stedman’s sweet-factory,
and about 30 rooms of the Coffee
Palace were burnt.
Information Sought
What is the present Australian
Rugby League rule on the play-the-
ball ?
Section 12, sub-paragraph 4 (n),
on “playing the ball alter tackle,”
reads as follows: “When a player is
tackled and brought to the ground
he must be allowed to immediately
regain his feet with the ball in his
possession. He must face bis
opponents’ goal-line. The tackled
player must immediately drop the
bail in front of him, and, after it
has touched the ground, it may be
played in any direction by the foot
of either player in the play-the-
ball movement. Neither player can
raise a foot off the ground until
the ball has - reached the ground.
After the ball has been played with
the foot and comes clear of
the players in the play-the-ball
movement, it may be played by any
player of either side who is on-side.
One opposing player may stand
immediately opposite the tackled
player. A player of each side, to
be known as the acting half-back,
may stand immediately behind his
own player taking part in the play-
ing of the ball: All other players
are on-side if they are more than
three yards behind their own player
who is taking part in the playing
of the ball. The’distance of three
yards shall be measured from the
rear foot of the player playing the
ball to the foremost foot of any
player on his own side.”
.* * ♦ *
(1) When was Ghana admitted to
the United Nations ? (2) Was it the
last State admitted before the
latest session ? (3) Other countries
admitted about the same lime as
Ghana ?
(1) On March 8, 1957, Ghana
became the 81st member-State of the
United Nations. The U.N. General
Assembly unanimously approved a
resolution sponsored by seven
members of the British Common-
wealth (Great Britain, Australia,
N.Z., Canada, Ceylon, Pakistan and
India). (2) Yes. (3) Morocco,
Tunisia and the Sudan were
admitted as members during the
opening sessions of the 11th session
of the U.N. General Assembly
(Nov., 1956), and Japan was
admitted on Dec. 18, 1956.
* * * *
(1) Is it true that the remains of a
ship, supposedly Noah’s Ark, have
been found on Mt. Ararat ? (2) In
what modern country is Mt. Ararat
situated ?
The matter is discussed in The
Bible as History, by Werner Keller
(for which see “The Battle of the
Bible,” B. 4/9/’57). Nothing con-
clusive has been proved. The
inhabitants of the little Armenian
village of Bayzit, at the foot of
Mt. Ararat, have for generations,
says Keller, “recounted the remark-
able experience of a mountain
shepherd who was said to have seen
one day on Ararat a great wooden
ship.” In 1892, after a journey in
those legions, Dr. Nouri, Arch-
deacon- of Jerusalem and Babylon,
reported seeing the wreckage of a
ship in the ice on the mountain.
In World War I a Russian airman
announced that he had seen from
his plane the remains of wreckage
of a fair-sized ship on the south of
Ararat, and Tsar Nicholas II
immediately dispatched a search-
party, which was reported not only
to have seen the ship but to have
photographed it; but, says Keller,
“all proof of this, however, perished,
presumably in the Revolution.” In
War 1] Russian and American fliers
again reported seeing a ship in the
snows. In 1951 the American
historian and missionary Dr. Aaron
Smith, with 40 companions, spent
12 days on the ice-cap of Ararat —
to no purpose; though, he states,
“my confidence in the Biblical
description of the Flood is no whit
the less.” In 1952 a young French
explorer, Jean de Riquer, also
climbed the peak without finding
anything. (2) It lies in eastern
Turkey, near the borders of Russia
and Iran.
* * * *
Same information on Thunderbolt
the bushranger?
Most authorities on the bush-
rangers agree that “Captain
Thunderbolt,” self-titled, was Fred
Ward, who operated in N.S.W.
north of Newcastle from Dec., 1864.
Usually with one or more various
companions (who regularly were
captured), he stuck-up and robbed
mail-cars, inns and travellers over
a period of sf) years; early in 1866
he operated for a time in Queens-
land. His end came in May, 1870,
when, after sticking-up a Uralla
publican named Blanche, he was
shot and fatally wounded by Con-
stable Walker as he was trying to
get away. With his death, bush-
ranging practically ceased in N.S.W.
In opposition to this viewpoint,
Annie Rixon, in The Truth about
Thunderbolt (1940), claimed that
“Captain Thunderbolt” was not
Ward at all but was one Fred
Britten, a “gentleman” bushranger
associated with Fred Ward in one
or two of his exploits, and who left
Australia for U.S.A. and oblivion
soon after Ward’s death.
* • * *
(1) What are the different gauges
of the railways in Britain ? (2) How
many miles of railway are there in
Britain ?
(1) With the exception of the 27
miles or so of narrow-gauge track
open for traffic, all the British rail-
ways are of standard-gauge (4ft.
The Great Western rail-
way was originally the “broad-gauge”
7ft., the gauge favored by Brunei,
and there were also for a time one or
two other gauges, which did not last
long. In 1846 an Act of Parlia-
ment prescribed the standard-gauge
for all new lines except extensions
of the Great Western railway. Even
with only two gauges there was a
lot of inconvenience, and Great
Western began to convert to
standard-gauge in 1869, completing
the changeover in 1892. (2) At
Dec. 31, 1953, railroad-mileage
(standard-gauge) was 19,222; tracK-
mileage, 51,607.
* * * *
Is there to be a display in Sydney
in connection with this year’s Navy
Week?
Yes, the R.A.N. plans to be “on
show” in Sydney during Navy Week.
On Oct. 12 the public will be
invited to visit some of the Navy’s
most modern ships, to inspect the
Garden Island Dockyard and work-
shops and to witness the firing of
anti - submarine “squids” and
torpedoes by a destroyer. Ships
open to visitors will be the aircraft-
carrier (flagship of the
Australian fleet, the most modern
carrier of her class afloat), the
Daring-class ship Voyager (a
modern welded vessel fitted with
modern offensive and defensive
electronic equipment), the fast anti-
submarine frigate Queensborough
and the aircraft-carrier Sydney (at
present commissioned as the general
training-ship of the fleet). As well
as the firing of “squids” and
torpedoes by the Warramunga, there
will be diving displays by the Royal
Navy submarine Aurochs in
Captain Cook Dock, a massed
exhibition by divers and frogmen, a
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(19/9/’57)
Good rains are likely in ike north-west, Gulf country
and north coast of Queensland during October; apart from
reasonably good rain on the central coast, the rest of the
State may have only light to moderate, patchy rains.
In N.S.W., moderate rain should be received on the
coast, tablelands, north-west slopes and plains, and south-
west during October. Mainly below normal, with the best
rains on the north-west slopes and plains and northern
tablelands. , Rainfall should also be patchy in November,
with good general rains during December, heaviest in the
northern areas of the State.
Moderate to good rains likely in Victoria during
October, although part of the Mallee confined to light rain.
Best rains in East Gippsland. Similar rains should occur in
November, although rainfall should become patchy in
December.
Moderate rains, mainly below normal, in the agricul-
tural areas of South Australia during October, with the
Murray Valley, upper north, interior and west coast areas
confined to light rains.
Rainfall should vary from moderate to good and above
average in the south-west and south coast of Western
Australia during October, with light, patchy rains in the
remainder of the State.
LENNOX WALKER.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divobce.
TO ALFRED CASSIDY (otherwise
known as ALFRED BANKS) of Sydney.
—TAKE NOTICE that BETTY HELEN
CASSIDY (otherwise known as BETTY
HELEN BANKS) has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3176 of 1957 on the
ground of desertion without just causa
or excuse for three (3) years and up-
wards. If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King. Street
Sydney by the 6th day of December
1957 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from RICH Sc SOLAKI,
Solicitors, 188 George Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Y I
jfV t—d
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—~
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
sea-air rescue by a helicopter and
the rescue of a pilot from a burning
aircraft. On Oct. 19, the public will
be allowed to visit H.M.A.S, Watson
(the South Head Naval establish-
ment), where they may see modern
radar and other equipment used in
navigation and in fighting aircraft,
surface-ships and submarines.
Organised visits by parties of
schoolchildren to Naval establish-
ments in the Sydney area will form
part of the week’s programme.
Brief Answers
J.0’8.: (From the N.S.W.
Rugby Football League.) (1) The
player outside the five-yard radius
would be allowed to play on, pro-
vided that this instance occurs in
general play. (2) The scrum: “To
form a scrum not more than three
forwards of either side shall inter-
lock arms and heads and create a
clear tunnel at right-angles to the
touchline. Not more than two
second-row forwards on each side
shall pack behind their respective
front rows by interlocking arms and
placing their heads in the two spaces
between the hooker and his prop-
forwards. The loose forward of
each side shall pack behind his
second-row forwards by placing his
head in the space between them.”
M.G.: According to some
recent figures, Tokio is now the
world’s largest city (8,471,637
inhabitants in 769 square-miles).
London has 8,346,137 in 693 square-
re iles, while New York has a popula-
tion of 7,771,509 in 319 square-
miles... .K.R.: (1) V. J. Keily,
secretary of the N.S.W. Lawn Tennis
Association, states that, as far as
is known, Henner Henkel, the
German Davis Cup player, was
killed in action during the last
war, (2) Henkel represented Ger-
many in Davis Cup matches from
1935 to 1939 inclusive K.E.:
The following may be closer to what
you want: Currawarna, Binderaga,
Maroong, Alukea—ail meaning
pme-tree; Uambi, pine-scrub;
Karawatha, place of pines; Bunya-
Bunya, pine-tree providing fruit;
Coolooli, cypress-pine; Corowa,
pine-wood for spear W.E.W.:
The following are as close as our
references come to the words given
Burren, big creek; Burren Burren,
plenty of quail; Burra, wait or stop;
Buna Burra, very large stones;
Burrima, swan; Burumin, grey
opossum; Buromi, wind; Warrah,
rain falling (or start, go); Warawara,
far away; Warara, long way off;
Warrawee, come here; Waree,
canoe-paddte ; Warri, wind ; Wairoo,
kangaroo.... R.B.McfC.: Write
H H. Green and Co. Pty., Ltd.,
A and N.Z. Bank Chambers, enr,
Pitt and Hunter Streets, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contribution voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should, be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
J.L. : Too forced... .E.M-H.: That
breathless style will get you nowhere.
.. . .T.F.: A few scattered grains of
interest... .R.E.: Seedy reminis-
cences not for us F.J.N.: Jules
Verne got there first... .W.M.:
Quarter-baked S.N.D.: Has a
certain bounce, but it rarely comes
down to earth S.T.: Put in a
cool, dry place for a few years....
A.C.: Mumbling shearer sent west.
... .L.K..: A hair’s-breadth miss....
C.T.8.: Stumbles N.P.: Ultra-
dry. .. .S.G.W.: “Oh Land of
Mine” is warmly patriotic, if little
else H.J.J.: Wildly rhymed....
E.S.: Cluttered with “faeries,”
“sprites of the night,” etc
R.D.: Innocuous E.F.: Fails on
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.]
all counts N.M.G.: “If not
used, would you please destroy it?”
Certainly HJS.: For the sake of
the tourist-trade, then: —
V.K.: Yes, but what’s the point
of it all? T.T.: The “sledge-
hammer smashings” of the smith’s
forge .were altogether too jarring.
W.E.J.: Slender plot A.E.:
Smooth as a Hindemith sonata
P.T.: Sugary... .A.F.R.: It reads
very nicely backwards... .B.O’B.:
Never seen worse verse M.F.:
“He jumped on his horse and fell
off.” So did the story PR.:
Cynicism is the second-lowest form
of wit.... D.G.G.: Incoherent
meanderings N ,T.: Construction
too tight 8.D.P.: Seventh-rate.
. ...V.F,: Lounge-gossip E.W.:
You’d have to do more than
“alter the punctuation”... .P.L.F.:
“Midnight Ramble” dark and
rambling Claude: Gawd,
Claude T.L.M.: Devoid of vigor.
C.K..: You’re bushed H. 8.:
Hopeless J.S.: Formless....
M.T.F.: Could have done with a
little more polish P.N.:
Meanders along like a daydream-
ing window-shopper W.S.G.:
“Lunar Ramble” plunged earth-
wards S.G.: Too dry W.M.:
Has a semblance of unity; your
rhymes are too obvious... .A.W.:
So a “lignitic red-topped rectangle” .
is a matchbox! G.S.: Try for a
clearer and less wordy approach
1 .T.: Reads like a seventh-rate
sermon M.E.: Almost....
E.A.W.: Fleabites... .N.S.: Your
escalator seemed to be trying to
go up and down simultaneously
S.G.: Never rhyme “moon” with
“gloom” H.C.: Bright and light
M.A.: Faeries and spangles and
“crying the moon” and “a-sigh”—
come, come... .C.W.: Well, they’re
cinquains H.A.S.: That
orchard-poem needs spraying
P.S.: You elude us C.T.:
“Let me go full force as Shaftesbury
did, Let me fight for right with
might.” Very well; we permit you.
There’s no need to drag
in Niagara and the Appian Way just
because you’ve seen wild geese.
Stick to the geese J.S.R.: Give it
a singe S.M.: Stopped at
“Nature’s alchemy” G.C.G.:
Glad to hear from you again, but
not accompanied by the Fairy
Queen IM.M.: “Rugged?
Beautiful?” Rugged S.F.: But
what’s her innocence doing shining
by “life’s early vine”? Climbing it?
J.C.: “Whither” went.,..
A.D.: Fair enough. But why the
armada? J.H.: But have you
really studied with due patience,
reverence and goodwill that which
you are criticising? S.S.:
“Billows bounding on devastation
bent, By forces diabolic driven” —
ah, a storm at sea Pandora:
Keep it in the box.
TASMANIA’S SCENIC BEAUTY.
Tassie’s isle your bushland lures me.
To cross the Tasman Sea,
And view your scenic beauty.
As it appeals to me.
I’d trek through your forests
Of wattie, gum and bark.
I’ll hear your singing skylark,
From early mom till dark.
I’ve read about your flora,
In valleys where they grow,
And all the native fauna,
That only bushmen know.
Ben Lomond, and Mount Boland,
Majestically they stand,
Mount Wellington, Cradle Mt„
The highest in Tussie’s land.
Port Arthur convicts used to roam.
Captives branded from home,
To a life of bitterness and hate.
Death unfortunately was their fate.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
AMERICA AND THE MIDDLE EAST
£6iT is perhaps not generally
* realised that the one
common denominator linking
the views on American
Middle Eastern policy of
many friends and foes
of the United States, of
neutralists, of a multitude of
Arabs and Israelis alike, is that
they profess not to know just
what American policy really
is Nor is their confusion
always to be. wondered at, in
view of the backing and filling,
the tightrope-walking—some of
it admittedly unavoidable in
which we have indulged in this
complex and supersensitive
part of the world. In fact, one
of the serious weaknesses of
American policy has been a
too-frequent failure to take this
sensitivity sufficiently into
account. Sometimes the manner
in which a policy is carried out
is of even more importance
than its substance.” “New
York Times.”
The foregoing “N. Y. Times”
comment was well illustrated
by reactions to America’s
hastened deliveries of arms to
Jordan as an answer to the
Russian build-up in Syria.
The most common criticism,
of course, accused Uncle Sam
of starting or accelerating a
Middle East armament race,
this view being typified by the
London “Observer” comment :
“For the United States to
reply to the Soviet arms deal
with Syria by demonstratively
speeding up its own arms
deliveries to some of Syria’s
neighbors is logical ; but it is
the logic of two men wrestling
on the slippery edge of an
abyss.
“Probably Russia, and cer-
tainly the United States, has no
intention of starting a con-
flagration in the Middle East ;
each is using arms supplies as
a means of aiding its Arab
supporters in their political
struggles to maintain or recover
local domestic control. Yet, as
Mr. Hammarskjoeld’s report
has just reminded us, this is
an area where concerted out-
side efforts are required to
restrain nationalist passions;
if the Great Powers continue
instead to pour in weapons on
a competitive basis, another
explosion is almost bound to
follow sooner or later and
the more the principals commit
their prestige, the more likely
they are to be involved.”
A second popular criticism
was of the “I-told-you-so ’
variety. Thus London “Daily
Express”:
“America hustles military
aid to troubled Jordan, while
the Sixth Fleet stands ready.
This realism is welcome. But
it would have been even -more
welcome 10 months ago when
Britain and France were
LONDON “DAILY MAIL”
(This, and the following, are typical examples of British car toon comment
on Uncle Sam’s Middle East problems .)
struggling to prevent the drift
to disorder in the Middle East.
“Instead, these two nations
were reviled for using gunboat
diplomacy.
“The United States deserves
full support for her endeavors
in the Middle East. But if
Britain’s position had been
sustained there last year, there
would be no alarm-bells in
Washington today.”
Also “Yorkshire Post”:
“While approving the sense
of urgency which our American
friends are showing in this
perilous situation, we in
Britain find it hard not to
whisper at the present moment:
‘Eden told you so.’ If only Sir
Anthony’s words when Colonel
Nasser seized the Suez Canal
had been heeded across the
Atlantic, how much less
alarming the outlook might
have been by this time! How
grievously wrong earlier
American judgments on the
realities of the Middle Eastern
problem have proved!
“There would have been no
necessity now for hastening
United States arms to Jordan,
and possibly committing
American Servicemen to
hazard, if 10 months ago
Britain and France had not
been halted by American
reactions when they intervened
in the Egyptian-Israeli war and
sought to give Soviet Russia a
timely warning that her
intrigues would not be allowed
to succeed in the Middle East.”
The main problem, of course,
is to suggest alternatives to
the American action, and there
are plenty of suggestions,
ranging from more talks with
the Soviet to the proposal that
Britain should disentangle
itself completely from the
Middle East. The least un-
reasonable one would seem to
be that put by London “News
Chronicle” and others: ,
“There should be simul-
taneous offers to help the
Middle East in other ways
than by arms. Congress is
obviously in no mood at the
moment to hand out largesse.
But this is where Sunfed (the
Special U.N. Fund for
Economic Development) could
establish itself with tremendous
impact.
“The average Arab, like any-
one else, is more anxious to eat
and prosper than to fight. If
the U.N. could, without strings,
start the Middle East along the
road towards even a mild
prosperity, the chances of
stability would increase—and
the Arab politicians would have
less success in whipping up
hatred.”
As opposed to most of the
foregoing critics, however,
London “Daily Telegraph”
points out that “those who
criticise the dispatch of arms
to Jordan by the Americans
should ask themselves two
questions” :
“If the sending of arms is
futile, whether as a military
act or as a diplomatic gesture,
why do the Russians do it?
And if we are not to watch
with folded arms as Com-
munism builds up in Syria a
situation of strength, a political
base, what reply is to be made
to the neat coups de main with
which it always rounds off years
of careful conspiracy? More
important than this small
delivery of weapons is the fact
that they could be quickly,
boldly and visibly flown into
the heart of the Middle East.
To call this a sprint in the arms-
race is misleading. It is rather
a sign that the West is learning
slowly from the Russians the
technique of cold war.”
Further, the “D.T.” com-
ments, “social reform, economic
planning, aid for development
[are not] answers to the kind
of coup that has succeeded in
Syria but was squashed in
Irak, Libya and Jordan.
“Watchful, strong, reliable
and ruthless friends are the
short-term answers and the
whole problem of American
and British Middle East policy
is to make them and keep them
without leaving Israel at their
mercy. By comparison the
Russians’ task is easy ; they can
make friends simply by arming
Arabs against Israel and by
merely promising long-term
economic aid. We have to face
the fact that the cold war is
now on in the Middle East ;
that we cannot negotiate our
way around it ; and that we
must endure tensions and
crises to win it, just as we did
in Europe.”
Disarmament
Although his subject is
mainly Dr. Adenauer, Salvador
de Madariaga, writing in Lon-
don “Time and Tide,” raises
some interesting afterthoughts
to the London disarmament
talks which lately “ground to
a dismal close” (“N. Y.
Times”).
Classing the West German
Chancellor as “the only states-
man who has never swerved
from an accurate view of events
of our day” Madariaga com-
ments that “those mere poli-
ticians who lead the other
Western nations have often
been led astray by two irrele-
vant considerations: the vote-
catching value of ‘peace’ and


Faith •tS'tr i&i'G’
Future
k
Influence, when you come to think of it, is
almost as great a force as life itself: it reaches past
the span of Man's few given years, and makes its
stirrings felt in the lives of countless others.
This thought came back to me when I read
of the death of Monsignor Ronald Knox in
England recently.
Coming as it did a few months after the
passing of Professor Gilbert Murray, it meant that
this year —1957 —has seen the passing of two
great men whose cultural contribution to humanity
will go echoing down the centuries in the world they
have left.
There was remarkable parallel in what they
strove for and achieved: Professor Murray, the
eminent Greek scholar whose love for the spirit
that was Greece had led him to bridge the chasm
of time between ,that ancient civilisation and our
own; and Monsignor Knox, the sparkling wit and
writer of fiction who added to the already brilliant
display of translations of the Bible —a work
monumental both in its labour and in the simple
beauty of its language.
1 am not a member of the great Christian
communion to which Ronald Knox, as a young
man, became a convert. I go to Service in the
Church of England. But I honour Faith in all its
forms, believing that service is the expression of
man’s highest endeavour. And I pay my own
tribute now to a noble Churchman and a
brilliant mind.
Gilbert Murray’s life and work have long held
me in admiration. I have read every available word
he wrote, have listened intently to every broadcast
word he uttered.
These two men, twin servants of history in
their time, have entered into a silence dared
and even broken by the living works of
their performance.
Add to the greatness of our age that they
lived and wrote and translated as they did; that
in the future estimate of these years it should be
held to account that their scholarship helped to
keep the spiritual and cultural lamps burning in
a world that needed all the warmth and light that
was shed by their influence.
the persistent error of viewing
the conflict across the Iron Cur-
tain as a pure struggle for
power.
“Hence a chain of ideas, all
inadequate and in fact wrong,
to wit: that the adversary of
the West is ‘Russia’; that
‘Russia’ is fearful for her
security and that her policy is
dictated by a fear of an attack
from the Western Powers;
that a compromise can be
patched up on the basis of give-
and-take and zones of in-
fiuence ; that an agreement on
disarmament is possible and
desirable ; and that the position
is two-sided, so that Russia’s
‘mistrust’ of the West is a mere
LONDON "TIME AND TIDE ”
reflection of the West’s ‘mis-
trust’ of Russia.
“The strength of Dr. Aden-
auer’s thought as a statesman
has been proved by the way in
which he has resisted the two
causal errors and their several
consequences. He has under-
stood from the first that the
problem of ‘peace’ cannot be
really solved until the problem
of liberty has found a solution,
since the nation with whom
you want to make peace must
be at peace within herself for
that peace with you to be worth
the paper it is written on.
(What would be the value of a
‘peace’ with Mr. Radar’s Hun-
gary today?)
“This is the true sense of
Dr. Adenauer’s insistence on
subordinating a European arms
agreement to German reunifica-
tion. For German reunifica-
tion is a misnomer, since it
amounts in fact to East Ger-
man liberation ; and Dr. Aden-
auer, unlike many of his Socia-
list and non-Socialist, German
and non-German critics, knows
full well that, without East
German liberation, there can
be no unification and that, with
East German liberation, reuni-
fication will come about of
itself. Therefore, to represent
Dr. Adenauer as harboring a
hope of forcing reunification
by military power seems to me
the acme of partisanship,
“Dr. Adenauer has also
seen more consistently than
any other world leader that the
East-West conflict is no mere
struggle for power in the
19th-century style so dear still
to Washington and London,
He realises that, though this
may be so entirely for the West,
it is only so functionally for
the East. Moscow seeks power
not for its own sake (as do the
Western nations) but as a mere
instrument for the spread of
Communism.
“That is why Dr. Adenauer’s
policy has been singularly free
from the muddle-headed ideas
which have confused not only
Mr. Bevan’s articles and
speeches but Sir Anthony
Eden’s endeavors to conjure the
spirit of Geneva and make it
hover over the snow-covered
steppes of Russia. No pure
muddie-headedness either, since
it was determined by a desire to
say to the crowd what the
crowd wanted to hear.
“None of this demagogy is
in Dr. Adenauer’s foreign
policy. The German Chancel-
lor realised that the adversary
of the West is not Russia, but
the Communist party; and
that Russia has never been
afraid of Western aggression,
for the Communist party that
controls her destinies and gags
her people knows full well that
Western democracies are in-
capable of unleashing a war;


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign o]
George 111,
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(England)
N.B.W. Branch:
8 Spring: Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A, FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
and that therefore a compro-
mise cannot be patched up be-
cause the Communist party
will never compromise, since,
unlike the Western nations, it
has a political faith.
“In these conditions, how can
a statesman attach substantial
importance to disarmament?
Can we ever expect an agree-
ment on weapons when no
agreement is possible on the
tension which forces us to be
armed? Can we agree to re-
move or even to attenuate the
effect without having agreed
on the cause?”
Hungary
It was never expected that
the U.N. debate on Russia’s
suppression of the Hungarian
revolt would have any material
effect; the propaganda-value
of a motion of censure was
about all that could be hoped
for, and press-comment follow-
ing the debate draws some
small consolation from the 60-
nation vote against the Soviet
and its supporters:
Ed in burgh “Scotsman” :
“Sixty members of the United
Nations have condemned
Russia for her action in
Hungary ; and her disgrace is
shared by the Hungarian
Government of Mr. Kadar.
LONDON “ OBSERVER”
Hungary, Soviet Russia and her
satellites, with Yugoslavia,
voted against the resolution in
the Assembly and 10 countries
abstained from voting, among
them India. It is plain that
nothing further can be done
to provide a remedy for injured
Hungary except at the cost of
a war which even the strongest
opponents of Russia have no
intention of embarking upon.
Thus the United Nations by
a vote of three-quarters of its
membership can condemn, and
justly condemn, but will do
nothing further against a
powerful aggressor.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian”: “The
very fact that the Soviet rulers
and their associates were so
anxious to avoid this debate
showed that they are not im-
pervious to the effect of world
opinion. Even among the
people they dominate questions
are being asked which they
must find discomforting.
Among the younger people in
Russia, it seems, there is some-
times unbelief of the official
explanations for the brutal
attack on Hungary. There is
some disquiet of conscience in
Russia, and perhaps still
greater questioning in countries
such as Poland. Some know-
ledge, at least, of the views
expressed in the United Nations
debate will percolate into
Eastern Europe and Russia, and
in the end it will help.”
New York "Herald Tribune”:
“The inability of the Soviets to
change the Assembly Vote in
any important respect—except
to their own disadvantage—
may exercise a restraining in-
fluence upon them. Certainly it
is no invitation to undertake
new adventures in repression.
To hold an unwilling satellite
at the expense of demonstra-
ting to the peoples of Asia and
Africa that the Soviet Union
is the brutal, expanding,
tyrannising colonial Power of
this era was not just a crime,
it was an error.”
* * *
“New York Times”: “The
Russians may continue to deny
that they are where they are,
that they did what they did,
and that they are doing what
they are doing, but the evidence
to the contrary will remain
available in every country
where there is a free press.
In this battle of truth against
falsehood, of honor against
dishonor, the Russians have
lost.”
Suez
London “News Chronicle”
on “two points that come out
clearly” from General Sir
Charles Keightley’s account of
the Suez invasion:
“The first is the muddle that
preceded this abnormally poli-
tical assault. The 10 days’
notice, previously accepted for
the start of operations, which
in the event became 10 hours,
the anxieties over the presence
of the U.S. Sixth Fleet and the
complications involved in using
troops based on Britain,
France, Malta, Cyprus and
Algiers, must have made this
a military nightmare.
“The second point is the use-
lessness of Cyprus as a base.
One of the Government’s main
arguments about Cyprus is
now officially and authorita-
tively thrown down. Owing to
the lack of harbors and air-
fields, and the desperate short-
age of landing-craft, the main
operation had to be mounted
from Malta, six days’ sailing
from Port Said.”
“Another lesson,” noted by
London “Daily Telegraph,” “is
that current ideas on psycho-
logical warfare need re-examin-
ing. The evidence of Egyptian
belief in British assurances that
only military targets would be
attacked may be very flatter-
ing ; but the Russian-inspired
order that Port Said must be
defended like Stalingrad, while
Britain and France were being
‘attacked with rockets,’ was
much more effective. How
different events might have
been if the cease-fire in Port
Said, arranged with the local
commander, had been main-
tained. It was ruthless, cun-
ning propaganda that prevailed
in the Suez operations, not
gentlemanly, inhibited pub-
licity. And that kind of pro-
paganda still pours out from
Cairo Radio.”
Russian Propaganda
An interesting sidelight on
the kind of Communist
propaganda—and mentality—-
with which the Western Powers
are faced is given by Godfrey
Meynell in London “Time and
Tide.” Meynell, who was at a
Moscow University discussion
during the Soviet’s World
Youth Festival, notes that “it
was the aim of the Russian
Government above all things to
impress delegates from Africa.
By welcoming them as brothers,
by showing that here at least
there was no racial discrimina-
tion and by expressing
‘solidarity’ with them against
their Western rulers, the
Russians were hugely success-
ful. A few level-headed
Africans and West Indians
paused to think, but the rest —
small blame to them —came


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Sulscription Dept',
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. .. .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“Tlie Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/18/6 Foreign .... £B/6/*
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
back from Moscow as from
some new Jerusalem, with a
message of hope, joy and . . ,
violence.
“I sat through two after-
noons of this [university] con-
ference. I heard much that was
true, besides much that was
palpably false. Everybody
knows that all is not perfection
in our colonies—or those of the
French. But nothing good was
mentioned ; not one hint was
given that any Englishman, for
instance, had ever gone to a
British dependency with any-
thing but extortionate greed in
his heart. One after another,
from Cyprus, from all over
Africa, from South America
the ‘delegates’ heaped abuse on
Britain and France, while
others from Bulgaria and
Rumania asserted their
‘solidarity.’
“Nor was America excused ;
a North Korean told us of the
fearful hardships endured by
his countrymen of the south,
made worse by the heavy toll of
America’s aggressive war
against his own country. In the
Philippines and Cuba, too,
American hypocrisy was dis-
played, while the Eisenhower
Doctrine in the Middle East was
only colonialism in disguise.
“A lack of sympathy with
Mr. Dulles made me disinclined
to pull American chestnuts out
of the fire. But the assertions
against us grew more and more
monstrous, until a Bulgarian
announced that Ghana’s
freedom was a hoax and a West
African said that 43,000
Africans had been ‘executed’ in
the past three years in Kenya.
“Comic relief was provided
by a gentleman in a red dress-
ing-gown, I think from
Turkestan. His speech was a
stout defence of colonialism in
the form of endless statistics
about the benefits brought by
Russia to central Asia. The
argument I was to hear later
—that no amount of material
benefits could compensate for
lack of freedom —would have
had no effect on him. He
trotted out his statistics until
signals from the platform
eventually silenced him. (One
glanced round for a Hungarian
or Latvian delegate to follow,
but this we were spared.)
“When my turn came I was
too conciliatory. I admitted
that great mistakes had been
made, and said that I disagreed
with my [British] Govern-
ment’s policy on Cyprus. Then,
however, I spoke of the moral
tone taken by the Soviet
Union in the. matter and men-
tioned a number of specific
imperfections within her sphere
of influence. My tone was too
moderate, though, compared
with what had gone before.
“Then I mentioned briefly
the advantages we [Britain]
had brought to our colonies ;
their material progress, health
improvements’, the very politi-
cal ideals which I had heard
put forward. I denied that we
had ever claimed that we went
—London “Daily Mail”
“ WHERE’S THAT VACCINE?”
there ‘in order to civilise
them.’ We had gone there for
trade at the first instance, but
these benefits had come as a
result. With the utmost
delicacy I hinted at the condi-
tion of these countries before ;
was there much ‘liberty’ then?
“I ended on a flat note, try-
ing to answer too many allega-
tions on which, to my shame,
I was not adequately informed.
In conclusion I said that
freedom was the avowed aim
of our Government for its
colonies and that emotionalism
and falsification of the facts
could only worsen the atmos-
phere in which it might be
gained. I also suggested certain
conditions, such as internal
divisions, in which it might
be unwise to grant liberty
immediately.
“The rest of the meeting
was uneventful. There was
great cheering when a Cypriot
thanked me for my support
but said he believed that no
nation should decide when
another is fit to govern itself
and called on Britain to
relinquish all her colonies at
once. I was criticised by others,
too, but on the question of
Russia’s shortcomings there
was silence.
“Afterwards I met the West
African lawyer whose remarks
had seemed so particularly
outrageous. He proceeded,
before a crovyd of admiring
Russians, to demolish my argu-
ments to their complete satis-
faction, while a friend of his
contributed to the victory by
distracting my attention with
sheer bad manners and
personal abuse.
“The position was intoler-
ably difficult, first because such
people have a raging inferiority
complex and the merest hint
that the * white settlers gave
them anything useful, or were
in a position to do so, throws
them into apoplexy. Secondly,
they take up a position which
allows no room for reasoned
discussion.
“It should be possible to
admit that European colonists
arrived with self-interest in
view and that this has led to
much that is evil; nevertheless,
the British conscience has now
been in operation for many
years and much genuine effort
has been made to improve the
colonies for their own sakes.
With this background the
problem of the future may be
approached objectively.
“None of this was clear to
my accusers (for they were no
less). To them and to the
Russians who fan their
emotions, the only aim is to
rouse every native of their
countries, into a ferment of
violence and resentment.”
Various Voices
Sir Harold Caccia, U.K.
envoy in America : “Neutralism
and isolationism have become
military absurdities. The West
is either united or defence-
less.”
* * *
German rocket expert, Dr.
Saenger: “You won’t be able
to stop a manned rocket. That’s
pretty certain. It’s easier with
an unmanned missile travelling
on a fixed course. To stop a
fast-travelling missile is a
matter of chance, a gamble
with the odds against the
defenders.”
* * *
Herr Willy Bretscher (editor-
in-chief of the “Neue Ziircher
Zeitung ”); “Nato in its present
state and with its present equip-
ment is ill-fitted if not down-
right incapable to cope ade-
quately and effectively with
many of the situations which
may arise in the near future.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Education and Religion
Although there is a good
deal of truth in the statement
that “the best preventives
against vandalism are educa- ,
tion and enlightenment of the
younger people” (B. 18/9/’57),
the prevalence of vandalism
when there is such high spend-
ing on education makes me
think that something more than
purely secular education and
academic enlightenment is
necessary to produce well-
balanced and responsible
citizens.
We can’t expect children
brought up in a religious and
moral vacuum to conform to
the community’s moral
standards standards which
have been established very
largely through the centuries
on a religious basis.
In Victoria, until recent
years, “free, compulsory and
secular” education, with
emphasis on secular, has been
provided in our State schools.
By amendment of the Educa-
tion Act, religious training is
now a recognised feature of
State education, but whether
such training is given sufficient
prominence as yet is open to *
question. It is interesting to
note, however, that in two of
the technical schools main-
tained by the State full-time
chaplains have been appointed
by decision of the school
councils, their salaries being
paid from funds raised by
public appeal.
These appointments repre-
sent an innovation in State
education in Victoria. They
have been made because of a
growing feeling that technical
training, without moral and
religious background, is inade-
quate to produce good citizens.
—D.J.G. (Vic.).
Murray Waters
Back in the 1870’s the S.A.
Government of the day passed
a bill giving an English com-
pany authority to build a deep-
sea port at the Murray mouth,
near Goolwa, in exchange Tor
land-rights over adjacent areas.
Since the overland railway was
under construction at the same
time a clash over this two-way
transport-system was inevitable.
The bill was never repealed ;
just oonveniently forgotten
apparently, since the records
are silent on the matter. The
English company must have
been appeased somehow, and
no doubt the interests control-
ling the already established
port of Adelaide, and well
represented in the Legislative
Council, did some quiet under-
ground engineering.
In the intervening years the
heavy haulage over the Mt.
Lofty Ranges has cost plenty.
The net result is the loss of
much of the State’s south-
east trade to Victoria. The
deep-sea harbor at Portland
(Vic.) is booming.
Now S.A.’s interests in her
end of the Murray are again in
jeopardy over the Snowy River
Waters Agreement, from which
this State has been excluded.
Riparian rights can go by the
board and S.A. can get too
little or too much water at the
whim of the eastern States.
Premier Playford is very
upset about the position, and
anyone knowing Sir Tom can
rest assured he'll gO to the
highest court to protect State
rights. If this fails he’ll most
probably throw a dam across
the river at the border fence
and do his own controlling in
a typical “that’ll-show-’em”
manner. — Old Opencut (S.A.).
A Hand for the Local Lad
I was impressed on reading
the other day that Electronic
Industries, Ltd., does not believe
in engaging experts from over-
seas, but relies instead on
sending its own staff abroad
for the necessary training and
experience.
The company’s chairman
and managing-director, Sir
Arthur Warner (also Victorian
Minister for Transport), said
his firm had this policy because
the Overseas man, “no matter
how expert he is, doesn’t know
local conditions or require-
ments. His ideas might be
totally wrong for Australian
needs.”
On the other hand, when “our
own men come back they can
apply their overseas knowledge
to local conditions because
they know them.” Against
bringing out an overseas expert,
too, are the jealousies and
frictions which seem inevitably
associated with him, however
unassuming he may be.
Every Electronic Industries
executive has had training
overseas. There is always at
least one future top man
stationed in England.
This policy is a sound one,
and could well be followed by
all big industrial firms of
national worth and importance.
—Kejokada (Vic.).
“The Battle of the Bible”
In his article on Werner
Keller’s The Bible as History
(B. 4/9/’57) Cecil Mann
tacitly assumed that writings
of a secular nature are
to be treated , differently
from sacred writings, so
far as the study of them
is concerned. But surely the
problem of any student of
ancient writings of any sort is
to find the answer to three
questions: (1) What did the
author really say? (2) What
was the significance of his
message in his own day? (3)
What is its significance to us?
This applies to the Bible as
to any other literature of
antiquity. Biblical scholarship
is no new development. It is
practically as old as the Bible
itself, and considerably older
than the more recent parts of
it. It should not be surprising
that new knowledge in other
fields should be used by
Biblical scholars in an effort
to shed light on their problems.
Incidentally, it is quite
possible to pray not only
audibly, but to a musical
setting. That is nothing new —
Christians have been doing it
for many centuries, while the
Jews did it long before Christ,
and it is common in most of the
religions of mankind. It is
therefore meaningless to say
“not spoken, not prayed, but
sung.” It is wrong, too, to
say that “The makers of the
Book of Common Prayer
leapt over the King James
Version to old Tyndale (of
1534) for their own rendering.”
The fact is that the English
Book of Common Prayer first
appeared in 1549, while the
Authorised Version (commonly
called the King James Version
—although once misnamed
the St. James Version by
President Truman) was not
published until 1611, 62 years
later.
Again, in his laudatory
remarks about Schonfield’s
Authentic New Testament,
Cecil Mann did not seem to
recognise that there is nothing
novel in that author’s statement
that “there is a diversity of
style, often an absence of
literary grace, infelicity of
phrasing, much use of collo-
quialisms” in the Greek
“Third one down!”


Yet MORE new Fordson Major features!
fti/Ep.T.O. and
HYDRAULICS
f„1 ■ ’ 1
V --
, "1
— -
, 1 - V. ■ J • ’ i
So simple
so convenient—so efficient
Change gears without stopping the
Power Take Off or Hydraulic Pump.
With the pedal up, both Transmission and
P.T.O. drive clutches are engaged. Press
pedal hallway down to disengage the trans-
mission clutch, and to change to neutral or
other gears, your P.T.O. is still being engaged
to deliver full power continuously to your
machine. Full depression of the pedal will
disengage the P.T.O. also. Available as
optional equipment, this latest Fordson
Major advance increases speed and ease of
operation of driver and hydraulic equipment
and enables fullest use of Fordson Major’s
ample power.
FORDSON
MAJOR
Your Fordson Dealer will give you full details.
NO OTHER TRACTOR HAS SO
MANY FARM-RIGHT FEATURES-
YOUR FORDSON DEALER WILL
SHOW YOU ALL OF THEM !
$
Y lvib22-40
See your local Fordson Dealer
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HIJNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP ('Chairman'), STR EDWARD R. KNOT ( Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, G. GORDON RUSSELL, A. MURRAY .JONES.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
Between
Ourselves
~V>-
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mother* vaft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
original. Scholars have long
known that the New Testament
was not written in classical
Greek, but in the “Koine,” the
everyday language of the
Hellenistic world that came into
being after the exploits of
Alexander the Great.
There have been other and
probably better modern render-
ings of the New Testament,
notably by Monsignor Wilfrid
Knox and Dr. J. B. Phillips,
not to mention partial transla-
tions like E. V. Rieu’s The
Four Gospels. Cecil Mann
says, “Where there are such
vast differences, there must be
some huge errors.” Actually,
scholars are now pretty well
agreed on the text of the New
Testament, and the differences
in the better translations are
relatively slight. There must
always be some difference of
opinion about accuracy of
translation see how many
versions there are of Dante’s
Divine Comedy —and no trans-
lation can be identical, with
the original, but by a com-
parison of various renderings
we can better understand the
original meaning.
The trouble is, of course,
that Biblical scholarship is a
highly technical field, and tech-
nical books rarely become best-
sellers. Since only 14 per cent,
of Englishmen (and probably
fewer Australians) take organ*
ised Christianity very seriously
today, it is interesting that a
number of such books in the
field of religion have now
entered, that category—and Mr.
Mann has done well to call
attention to several of them.
It takes, they say, a genera-
tion for an idea to seep down
from the great thinkers to the
rest of us, and perhaps by 1980
it will no longer seem surpris-
ing that Christianity is intel-
lectually respectable and its
claims deserving of serious
consideration whether we like
them or not. In the meantime,
the writing, publication, sale,
and reading of such books helps
in the seeping process.
Not everyone can be an
expert in technical matters, but
it is imperative that there be
some means of making avail-
able to us the conclusions of
experts. Perhaps Mr. Mann’s
article will move someone who
"No, no! For a Waltz it's ONE-tWo-three —ONE -two-three.
has both the expert knowledge
and the ability to put it into a
language “understanded of the
people,” apd some publisher to
make it available to us with
reasonable hope that, if it does
not become a best-seller, at
least he will not lose by it. —
L. C. Bailey (Q.).
Then and Now
The meagre Federal Budget
concessions caused me to look
back at the policy announced
by Mr. Menzies when he was
seeking office in 1949. He
denounced, it can be recalled,
“the Socialist State, with its
subordination of the individual
to the universal officialdom of
government.” He attacked the
illusion of prosperity which
reduced the incentive to effort.
He promised “a resolute reduc-
tion in the burdens of govern-
ment.” He announced there
would be a review of the
incidence of indirect taxes-
(“which are a huge though
sometimes unrecognised item
in Australia”) on the basic
wage and cost-of-living items
and housing-costs (I wonder if
such a review has ever been
made, and, if so, what if dis-
ci osedi).
On the subject of the public
service he admittedly walked
a little gingerly, conscious like
all politicians of the immense
voting power wielded by those
gentry and their kith and kin.
He did remark, however, and
should be reminded of it now,
that the rapid growth of
Socialist ideas and practices in
Australia was transferring far
too many people from produc-
tive to administrative activities,
and that this represented “a
grave danger to our future.” He
promised to “check this un-
healthy expansion,” to re-
organise departments, to
rationalise their work, to cut
out overlapping, to reduce
red-tape.
That, of course, is what a
strong and strongly Liberal
Government would do now.
What about it, Mr. Menzies?—
Hay Diet (N.S.W.).
Railways
There were some familiar
arguments in the revived
support (in the N. S. Wales
Parliament) for completion oT
Maryvale-Sandy Hollow rail-
way.
Predictions that the line
would open up valuable
country, encourage closer-
settlement, increase production
and aid decentralisation were
the main points in the clamor
that preceded the building of
most of the offshoot lines that
today serve the outback areas
of N. S. Wales.
Just how far these expecta-
tions have been realised —along
with the profit-earning capacity
that was always visualised —
is evidenced by the fact that,
after years of operation, not
one of these lines is a paying
proposition. More than that,
in one or two instances, the
annual loss was such that the
tracks were torn up and the
whole thing abandoned. The
Ballina - Booyong connection
was a case in point.
The Maryvale-Sandy Hollow
line will certainly bring in some
new business, but it is a fore-
gone conclusion, such are the
limited potentialities, that the
revenue will be very much
below operating costs. To the
inevitable loss must be added
the interest on the loan-money
spent on the project.
The proposed line may have


some merit as an alternate
route from north to west and
Sydney, and also as a defence
installation, but even allowing
for some warranty on those
two accounts, nothing is more
certain than that its opening,
if it eventuates, will be one
chance less of the N.S.W. Rail-
way Department wiping out its
deficit. — Landmark (N.S.W.).
Most N. S. Wales users would
agree with “Van” (B. 18/9/’57)
about railway inefficiency
some furniture-retailers in
country towns have their stock
sent by air, because they have
found that the lower breakage
rate more than compensates
for higher freight.
What “Van” was told about
losing other concessions if he
sends his wool by road is no
idle threat. A grazier took a
mob of sheep from Moree to
Inverell (N.S.W.) by rail, a
distance of 90 miles, and
regretted it when he saw how
badly the trip had knocked the
sheep about. Having kept them
the statutory three months, he
applied for the restockers’
rebate of freight, but was told
this would not be granted, as
“inquiries had shown” that his
wool had been sent to market
by road-transport the previous
year.
No doubt this was intended
to show him the error of his
ways in taking business away
from the railways. What it did
show him" was that, in the
absence of the concession, it
would be cheaper" and less* hard
on the sheep either to drove
them or move them by motor
transport.
Whatever the rights and
wrongs on both sides, every
businessman knows that poor
service, high charges and
antagonising customers do not
make for higher profits.—
Manamoi (N.S.W.).
About six months ago I
pointed out that the Victorian
Railways’ announcement that
“in February 83 per cent, of
suburban trains ran on time,
and in January more than 85
per cent.,” meant that one
train in six was likely to be
late - scarcely a reassuring
thought for Melbourne’s com-
muters.
Now the railways have come
under fire again. This time they
claim that 70 per cent, of
suburban trains keep within a
couple of minutes of scheduled
times, adding that passengers
will notice a difference in the
service as more of the new
“Harris” trains are put on the
lin6s.
A drop in six months from
85 per cent, to 70 per cent, on
time, or three out of 10
behind schedule, is certainly a
perceptible change. At that rate
of progress commuters will
shortly feel like celebrating
the occasion whenever they
arrive at the office on time. —
Wusslean (Vic.).
The Road Toll
According to Inspector A. H.
Robinson of the Victorian
Police, many accidents placed
solely at the door of speed
could have been the result of
mechanical failure. “It is
remarkable,” he declares, “the
condition of vehicles that some
people drive. So long as a
car keeps going, they just keep
putting in petrol, oil and water
and don’t worry about its fit-
ness otherwise. Such people
don’t seem to realise the
danger they are running.”
In Victoria this risk is being
convincingly demonstrated to
motorists. Within one month
police checked 15,700 vehicles
on the roads and issued 1654
repair orders for defects affect-
ing safety, all of which could
have been detected by any
normally competent mechanic.
Most danger arises from
faulty headlamps, brakes and
steering mechanism. Worn
tyres and dirty windscreens
involve other risks. A film of
dust on a windshield can cause
dazzle, particularly in the after-
noon sun, and visibility may be
lost altogether if the dust is
thick enough and the sun
strikes at a certain angle.
Garagemen could help
educate motorists in the care
and use of cars. Often enough
only a mechanic sees beneath
a motorist’s vehicle, and what
he sees, and repairs, could save
lives. A garageman, too, being
a stranger to a car, is more
likely than its owner to notice
if the footbrake is “down” and
whether it needs adjusting.
The issue of repair orders
might be taken a step further
and be followed by a com-
pulsory monthly check at recog-
nised service-stations. The issue
of an appropriate certificate
or sticker, in much the same
way as a licence is issued and
renewed, could serve to main-
tain efficiency and safety.—
Xavier (Vic.).
Municipal Voting
As if compulsory ratepaying
at today’s high rate-assessments
wasn’t enough for the average
citizen to worry about, the
Moorabbin City Council (Vic.)
has decided to petition the
Governor-in-Council for com-
pulsory voting in the city’s
municipal elections.
At least three-quarters of
Victoria’s local - government
authorities get along quite
happily with voluntary voting.
Moorabbin’s move was
prompted by the revelation
that only 30 per cent, of
eligible citizens went to the
polls at the August elections
of councillors. What is to be
gained by insisting upon
enrolled voters going through
the formality of registering
their “votes”—which may be
informal if they so choose —
is not apparent.
The council would do better
if it tried to stimulate * some
real interest in local affairs.
—Doynest (Vic:).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 454
Across
I—Charity1—Charity Workers with whom Jolson gets 1000 singles. (8)
s—-He’s5 —-He’s prankish millinery when off its head. (6)
B—Change the country one way, then the other, and so on.
(11)
10 — Jolson deserting the rural play by Capek. (3)
11 — Pumped up steam-yacht used A. G. Bell’s invention to
make contact. (8)
12 —Injuries in Wales. (5)
14 —Famous radio entertainment
organisation painting our fleet’s
article. (8)
16 —Embarrassing to a billiardist
short of chips. (4, 2)
18 — Cayenne expels a long-distance
Russian runner about no whips.
(6)
19 — He pesters the two Queens
Elizabeth. (8)
21 — The disorderly Senor Sniffer. (5)
22 — Hue and cry, or some such
hubbub, in a foreign state. (8)
25 — Utensil to criticise one in a
postal note piper of myth. (3)
26 — It helps any artist to produce the
natural chest-expander. (11)
28— State cast off with ribbons. (6)
29 — Spiced Kelly’s oceans. (8)
Down
1 — A ewer not entirely closed. (4)
2 Australian comedian belonging to
the old fashioned second person
with lepidoptera. (5)
3 Blow General Lee’s enemy
festival. (5-6)
4 Authenticity makes Sal sneer. (8)
5 Low moustache on a duck. (3)
6 Oil firm and I and the Queen get
a medicinal plant. (9)
7 A good round ego food for
Cerberus is to age a H.Q. of
French musical culture. (5, 5)
9 —Federal electorate. (4)
12 —We have a unit of heat and a
footnote of the corresponding
charts in the papers. (7, 4)
13 —Parts of the necks of an Aus-
tralian V.C., a cheeky chap. (10)
15—How the poet might apostrophise
the shingle figures. (9)
17 —Compress an edible bird with a
refrigerant. (8)
20 —Services are very good, just
in ; case. (4)
23 — rne smaii David Jones hotel
offers a fiery spirit. (5)
24 Eat up, girl! (4)
27 —Penniless drop off a signal of
agreement. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 453


**oof
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
5 Q ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE
WIRE NAILS
mm
■ ■
1
I
.
BARBED WIRE
ZINC OXIDE
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants , Storekeepers and Agents
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road.
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAG HT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
U.S. FARM PRODUCTION
By S. A. DEVESON
TOURING the last 10 years,
farm mechanisation and
the use of applied agricultural
science have resulted in a
tremendous increase in agri-
cultural production of all types
in the U.S.A. Even with a
The removal of
worms from sheep is
comparatively easy
but how can reinfes-
tation be avoided?
Keeping sheep that
have been freed of
worms from reinfesta-
tion is greatly aided
by putting them on a
paddock which has
been spelled for three
or four weeks. This
allows time for larva
worms expelled by
earlier flocks to die.
An excellent way to
avoid sho ck and
disease arising from
marking and tailing
is to use Elastrator
Rubber Rings on the
lambs rather than
the knife. Being
bloodless the Elastra-
tor System of mark-
ing and tailing offers
little, if any, attrac-
tion to germ-carrying
flies.
population of 180 million to
feed, there seems little hope of
ending farm surpluses in
America for the next decade.
One has only to fly over the
Middle West of the U.S.
—commonly called the Corn
Belt and consisting in the main
of Minnesota, lowa, Wisconsin,
Illinois and South Dakota—to
realise just what a huge tract
of flat, fertile land there is,
enjoying a good rainfall and
having an abundance of water
for irrigation from streams,
lakes and underground water-
supplies. One can readily
assess then just how much food
could be produced in the U.S
if needed.
The United States Govern-
ment has stepped in with
stabilised marketing of primary
produce, and a system of sub-
sidies aimed at maintaining the
fertility of much of this land
and, at the same time, deducing
the acreages of each of the main
crops sown. This system- is
known as the Soil Bank. Sub-
sidies are divided into three
groups:
Conservation Reserve (limit
$l5OO per year per farmer):
This applies to all general crops
such as maize, oats, barley,
etc., which are grown on a
controlled acreage-per-farmer
basis. If a farmer wants to
reduce the acreage he is allotted
to plant he is paid $ll
(approximately £5) per acre per
year for not planting that crop.
If the farmer decides to take
his land out of production for
three years, then he must sow
this land down to grass or
lucerne.
Soil Conservation Payment:
An additional amount of $9
(approximately £4) per acre is
paid for the sowing-down of
lucerne in connection with the
service programme, and is pay-
able provided that 2801 b.
0/20/20 fertiliser is sown with'
this seed. (0/20/20 is 20 per
cent, potash and 20 per cent,
phosphate.)
The two foregoing can be
combined, giving a total subsidy
of $2O per acre if a farmer
decides to take an area of land
out of corn or wheat produc-
tion and sow it down to lucerne
for three years.
A creage Reserve: This is
paid to farmers for reducing
their allotted acreages on crop
land and is in a direct propor-
tion to what they would be
expected to receive as profit on
each individual crop. For
wheat land, $l4 per acre per
year is paid, and for maize land,
$35 per acre is allowed. There
is g limit of $5OOO per year
on this particular category.
In some instances, farmers
are allowed to take the whole
of their land out of production
of crops and sow it down to
pasture or lucerne, and special
arrangements are made with
the conservation authorities to
have this programme sub-
sidised.
Under Australian conditions
this seems like a real gift for
not working, but in America
it shows to what extent the
Government wishes to build up
its reserve of fertile soil against
an occasion when production
may have to be stimulated
—as in the event of war or
any other similar emergency.
In actual fact, the amount
of surplus grain held in storage
from year to year is not exces-
sive, when related to the con-
sumption of this grain per
month, but there seems to be
only a limited amount of
storage facilities for excess
grain. It is common to see
at each railhead large numbers
of small U.S. Govern-
ment storage-bins for the
storage of farmers’ corn. An
arrangement is now being made
with farmers which provides
for a payment of 16 cents per
bushel per year to allow the
farmer to store his own corn.
Another arrangement is being
made whereby the Government
sells the storage-bins on a time-
payment basis to the farmer,
who pays for them out of the
storage costs of tjie grain that
he receives from the Govern-
ment. ,
Here are a few other facts
which affect the economics of
farming in the U.S.
Depreciation: Depreciation
on farm plant can be written
off between five and 10 years,
at the discretion of the farmer.
Up to 40 per cent, depreciation
can be claimed for the first
year on farm plant. Barns,
hay-sheds, etc., depreciate over
20 years, and fences depreciate
over 10 years.
Dam and Pond Construction:
The United States Government
Service Programme pays up to
60 per cent, of the cost of
farm dams, if approval is given
by the conservation authority.
This authority plans the con-
struction of the dams in the
same way as our Water Con-
servation Irrigation Commis-
sion. The maximum allowable
under this scheme is $l5OO per
farm for any one project.
Taxation : Personal taxation


RUSSIAN COMFREY
Symphytum Peregrinum
Giant Webster Strain
A fodder upon which all stock and
poultry thrive. Get the right strain
for protein (33.68% protein has been
obtained) and bulk (124 tons an acre
in Kenya and 99 in New Zealand in
1956). Send stamped, addressed
envelope for price list and my intro-
ductory booklet giving my farm experi-
ments with this crop to pioneer grower.
W. F. SAVAGE,
Green Farm, Red Hill South,
Victoria.
Weight Without Scales
with
K
3
11l
Merely pull the Weighband
taut around the girth of the
animal and read off the
weight. Guaranteed accurate
to within 3% the Weighband
is simple to read and can be
carried in the pocket.
Only 35/-
Post Free
Gives Live & Dead
Weight of Pigs and
Cows by Girth
Measurement...
Save time, save money,
save trouble. Send for
your Weighband today.
A vailable from:
WELCH PERRIN
& CO. PTY. LTD.
48-56 Queen’s Bridge St.,
South Melbourne, Vic.
The DAKEN
CORPORATION
PTY.
LTD.
22-24 King Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
is much lower in the U.S.
than it is in Australia, but I
believe this is made up for in
other ways.
Capital Gains Tax : Fifty per
cent, of capital gain is treated
as non-taxable, while the other
__ A .’ ■ ~ .
50 per cent, is taxable in the
normal manner. This particulat
tax law has had the effect of
preventing many farmers from
selling their properties, and has
to some extent reduced the
development of some of the
unimproved or partially un-
improved land left in the United
States. To me, there appears
to be a considerable amount
of semi-fertile land in reason-
ably good rainfall areas that
is awaiting the kind of develop-
ment now being applied in
Australia.
Wool Subsidy : One of the
most interesting of the United
States Department of Agri-
culture’s subsidies-programme
is the enormous subsidy paid
for the production of wool,
Woolgrowers are paid a sub-
sidy of 110 per cent, of world-
parity prices for the wool they
produce. In many of the
mixed-farming areas there is
little knowledge of wool-
production, and a general feel-
ing exists among farmers that
you really have to know a lot
about sheep before you try to
raise them,
My general impression of
United States farming is that
the American farmer is not
allowed to go broke. On the
o * h . ei ; hand - stabilised pnces
and taxation laws prevent him
from making a lot o£ money .
•j [ le av er a ge American farmer
lives more comfortably than
the average Australian farmer,
w j t h more of the modern con-
veniences than we have avail-
able in many of our settled
cities. But were he to relate
bis profits against his capital
outlay on land, buildings and
equipment, his balance-sheet
wou ld hardly entice stock-
exchange investors to buy
shares in his undertaking,
Americans do not look to the
farming community to provide
overseas funds, as we do in
Australia. The high standard
of living, with its resultant
high wage-levels, results in
high - priced primary pro-
duce too high for world
export-markets. Consequently,
America looks to its farmers
to feed America and feed it
well, which they do admirably
at the moment,
The Soil Bank is an assurance
that they will continue to do
so, even when the U.S.A.
population reaches 300,000,000.
SILAGE MADE CLEAR
By “P.H.R.”
SO you’re going to have a
crack at ensilage this year?
Let’s have a last-minute run-
through of the points to watch
and the mistakes to avoid. A
little thought now may be
worth pounds later on when
you open-up.
A few first points: On most
properties, silage is best made
as well as hay—not “instead
of’’ it. Its chief advantages are:
conservation is possible early in
the season when rain is likely ;
well-made silage retains more
food-value ; equipment needn’t
be costly; its succulence
encourages milk-production ; it
prevents-unwanted seeding.
Its chief disadvantages are:
silage is heavy to trans-
port; difficult to buy and sell;
more care is needed in making
it; conservation is usually
slower; feeding-out is more
laborious; wastage can be
excessive.
But on to the job. The
chances are you’ll be using one
of four machines to do it:
buckrake, forage - harvester,
rotary - chopper or pick -up
baler.
Buckrake
If you want guaranteed first-
class silage using a buckrake,
here’s what you must do:
Before you start, check that
any bent tines are brought into
line. See that the heel of the
rake is about 2in. clear of the
ground. Have tines clear of
rust and paint so that material
can slide right up.
Mow close to the ground, so
that, when you come to rake,
the tines don’t get tangled in
uncut crop. For short crops,
rake across the swathe ; for long
crops, rake in the same direc-
tion as the crop was mown.
Build the stack preferably
downhill, on well-drained
ground with easy access. Aim
to keep travelling distance down
to about 400yds. maximum.
Build a bun-shaped stack for
preference—that shape, it’s less
easy to fall off! Besides, if you
roll it well and cover with a
couple of inches of earth,
wastage is almost nil. However,
watch out it doesn’t keep grow-
ing and growing. Roll I'ne
stack frequently to exclude air
and keep temperature under
control.
If you have no level ground,
make a wedge-shaped stack.
But watch how you roll it with
the tractor. The edge can slip
off, taking the tractor with it.
Rolling is essential to reduce
wastage. Six inches of waste
round an average wedge-shaped
stack can mean a loss of 20
per cent, of silage. A wedge-
or bun-shaped stack will usually
settle to within a third of its
original height, so build it good
and high.
Good silage can be made with
the buckrake for anything from
10s. to £1 a ton.
Forage-harvester
Making silage with a forage-
harvester is easy. You simply
drive around until the trailer is
full, then empty it. The most
important factor is temperature-
control in the pit or silo. You
can make high-protein silage
only if the temperature is kept
between. 70°F. and 113°F.
during fermentation. If it
ferments below 70°F. you get
a butyric silage with a nasty
smell. And you lose up to 40
per cent, of your precious
protein as ammonia. If the
material ferments above 113° F.
it becomes indigestible and you
may lose 75 per cent, of your
protein.
Take the temperature of the
pi , or sjlo frequen ,i y . K the
temperature stays low hold off
ens.hng until it has heated-up
f “ * ct !, ‘ o ° hot >. com^ ct ,
to seal OU ‘ fV'T" 1 ~he. ,he
wb > ch al ows . b K u ™"g.
Chopping the material helps to
f Ol ? ,rol temperature particu-
“s'. in P reventln * from over ‘
neatlnB-
- can store silage made
with a forage-harvester either
m a permanent silo or tower,
° r Y ou can store xt underground
in a pit, bunker or trench. Any
these is more effective in
keeping out the rain and air
that quickly spoil even the best-
made silage.
And here’s a handy way to
unload a trailer into a pit: Get
a piece of wire-netting the same
width as the inside of the trailer,
Fix to the rear end of the
. trailer, lay along the floor, con-
tinuing'up the front side. It
should project about 18in. and
be fitted with a piece of timber,
To unload, tie the projecting
end by rope to a tree or post.


OTION
i
n
i
Effect all your Insurances with
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
Insurance Company Limited
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY'
'Phone: BWlOll, BWIOI2, BW 4991
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
AH types of General Insurance
V
Directors:
STRUAN ROBERTSON (Chairman)
JAMES H. STEPHENSON
S. E. A. STIRLING, R. G. GALE
A. C. MAITLAND
Managing Director
N. E. MANION,
Manager
Branches and Agencies ifi all Slates.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
As you drive away, the netting
rolls the load off the trailer.
Silage has been made with a
forage-harvester for 16s. a ton,
using 0.7 man-hours.
Rotary-chopper
The preceding hints also
apply to ensilage with a rotary-
chopper. This type of machine
cuts the crop with a high-speed
drum to which hardened blades
are attached by short chain.
Revolving at around 1000
r.p.m. they hurl the cut
material into the trailer as they
cut it. With some varieties,
trailers can be self-emptied in
half-a-minute.
Silage with a rotary-chopper
can be made for as low as 14s.
a ton.
Pick-up Baler
Silage with a pick-up baler
appeals to the man with a baler
who has no wish to add to his
equipment. Its advantage over
other methods is the ease of
feeding-out. Twine round each’
bale stays intact, and the bales,
of 60-701 b., are easily handled.
This way, feed can be rationed.
And, in baling, the bale-counter
tells just how much feed you
are storing.
For best results watch these
points:
Unless using a side-delivery
rake, fit an inside swathe-board'
to your mower. Follow at once
with the baler unless wilting is
necessary because of excessive
sappiness. Use a twine-tie baler
adapted according to the
maker’s recommendations to tie
a short bale (normal-sized bales
are too heavy for silage).
Use less tension on the bale-
chamber, because very tight
bales heat too slowly. To cut-
down manhandling, fit a load-
ing-chute from baler to trailer.
Stack in a trench with sloping
walls. Don’t overlap the bales
like bricks, otherwise feeding-
out will be hard. Fill gaps
between bales with loose green-
stuff to prevent mould and
overheating.
Roll each layer lightly with
a tractor to help fill crevices.
If temperature rises above 115°,
roll more heavily. Fill to above
ground-level and cover with
loose material, then soil. Roll
daily for a week.
Using a pick-up baler
is usually more expensive than
other methods, but this may be
partly offset by ease of feeding-
out. A recent survey in Vic-
“ Peaceful , isn't it?"
toria put the cost of a ton of
edible silage made with pick-up
balers at £ 1 12s. a ton. Cost of
silage with buck rakes in the
same survey came to 14s. 9d.' a
ton.
So that’s the 1957 silage
story. Machinery has taken
most of the guesswork and
backache out of the job. Your
skill and commonsense can do
the rest.
Land-judging
OTOCK-JUDGING compe-
titions are a regular feature
of young-farmer activities at
shows and field-days. Why not
go further and hold land-
judging or land-evaluation
competitions to help young
people to become better
farmers? *
In the U.S.A. such competi-
tions started in 1941 when the
first land-judging school and
contest was held for 25 farm
boys in Oklahoma. Since then
the idea has spread throughout
most of the 48 States.
Land-judging is designed to
teach soil- and water-conserva-
tion (in the broadest sense) in
a way similar to livestock
judging. Score-cards are issued
so the contestants can mark
all their decisions.
Much as in dairy-cattle
judging, for example, four
different paddocks are generally
allotted for comparison. The
judging is based on the partici-
pants’ understanding of land-
classes and the soil’s ability lo
produce vegetation, just as
dairy-cattle judging is depen-
dent upon the judge’s under-
standing of factors related to
good milk-production.
In land-judging you look for
differences in the soil that will
affect crop-yields over a period
of years, and for management-
practices that are best suited
to the type of land.
A contestant learns about
these facts at judging-schools
held in advance of the contests,
when he is introduced to
recommended treatments for
different classes of land. In
4he contest he must make his
own decisions, based on obser-
vation of the paddocks con-
cerned and his previous train-
ing and experience.
Soil characteristics and
limitations are considered first.
The contestant must decide the
depth of the topsoil and sub-
soil ; by handling it he must
determine its texture, per-
meability and condition. By
observing the topography of the
paddock he determines the
slope. Next he examines the
topsoil to see how much has
been removed by erosion, and
classifies the damage. Then he
reports on surface-drainage
conditions.
Finally the contestant must
decide which of the major
factors (texture, permeability,
depth, slope, erosion and
drainage) are most important;


But! a YtUtVr
Qua&bf
STORM UHTERN
and get value for
money! Gives 12 hours
brilliant light on only
pints of kerosene. Abso-
lutely wind and weather-
proof. A Reflector is
available as an extra if
required.
And 100% British Made too!
-"-"7
i
Y 300 Candlepower j
\ l
Model X 246
‘SfCifo Mieimce!
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores throughout Australia,
In ease of difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to •
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE :
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
then he determines the land-
class of the paddock.
Standard classifications of
land are used:
Suitable for cultivation.
Class 1. —Few or no per-
manent limitations.
Class 2. —Moderate per-
manent limitations or moderate
hazard to its maintenance.
Class 3. —Severe permanent
limitations or frequent hazards
to its maintenance:
Class 4. —Very severe per-
manent limitations or very
frequent hazards.
Unsuitable for cultivation.
Class 5. —Suited for per-
manent vegetation, grazing or
forestry, with few or no
permanent limitations or slight
hazards.
Class 6. —Similar land with
moderate permanent limitations
or moderate hazards.
Class 7. —Similar land, with
severe permanent limitations or
severe hazards.
Class 8. —Land that has such
extreme limitations or hazards
that it is not suited for cultiva-
tion, grazing or forestry use,
but only for wildlife, recrea-
tional purposes or watershed
protection.
Next the contestant con-
siders recommended land-
treatments. These are divided
into five broad groups on the
land-evaluation score-card
conditioning, improving, con-
serving, fertilising and cropping
practices.
For example, a sign will be
erected in each paddock show-
ing results from a soil-test and
he must decide which
fertiliser-treatment is needed
from a number of choices
on the score-card. Similarly
he has to choose the appro-
priate vegetative treatment.
Some of those listed would
be: controlled grazing,
strip-cropping, soil-conserving
and improving crops every
third or fourth year, and so
on.
Finally the score-cards are
collected and graded according
to the official placings of the
judging-committee and the
scores tabulated, a perfect
score for each paddock being
60 points.
Land-judging is designed so
that teams of four can compete
from such organisations as
school groups and young-
farmers’ clubs. Alternatively
the competition can be for
individuals only, and such
contests are frequently held for
adults.
Judging is followed by dis-
cussion between contestants and
committee.
Fundamentally, those who
participate in land-judging conr
tests have an opportunity
to understand basic soil-
differences ; to know how soil-
properties affect crop-growth ;
to learn why soils respond
differently to management prac-
tices ; to realise the influence of
land features on production
and land-protection ; to select
suitable soil- and water-
conservation practices ; and to
determine proper use and treat-
ment of soils.
J. E. Slee.
Footroi 1
“Wickliffe” : A compara-
tively dry and sunny winter has
given sheepowners a chance of
reducing footrot in their flocks
now instead of having to wait
until the summer.
The Victorian Department
of Agriculture recommends a
preliminary paring followed by
regular footbathing as the best
attack on the disease during
early spring. Paring is easiest
while the hoof is soft.
Experiments at Glenormiston
(Vic.) show that a walk-through
footbath can check footrot if
it is used often enough. Portable
footbath trays at Glenormiston
(6ft. by 3ft.) cost only £3 each
and are easy to make and
install against a fence. Hurdles
can be placed along the un-
protected sides of the baths and
angled at the end to direct
sheep into the trays.
Best results in the experi-
ment were obtained by walking
the sheep through a five-per-
cent. formalin bath twice a
week. Fortnightly and monthly
bathings were not nearly so
successful.
Pumpkins
“Myall”: Pumpkins are a
splendid fodder for both stock
and pigs, which devour them
with relish. The production of
dairy cows is sustained on the
diet, while pigs fatten on
it. It is advisable to cut the
pumpkins into slices before
feeding to stock.
Pumpkins want a rich, friable
loam for successful cultivation,
but most soils will produce big
crops provided they are well
worked and judici o u s 1 y
manured. Animal manure is
best, and a very heavy dress-
ing should be evenly spread
over the surface of the field
and ploughed well in. Other-
wise, use a commercial fertiliser
rich in potash at the rate of
from l|-2cwt. per acre.
One to two pounds of seed is
sufficient to sow an acre.
Growers of large areas usually
sow this through the combine,
blocking-up the runs so that the
drills are about sft. apart.
When the young plants have
developed a few leaves they are
thinned-out to stand 4ft. apart.
Pumpkins want plenty of water
during dry spells.
When the fruit is mature it
should be gathered and stored
in a cool airy place. An open
shed is ideal. The pumpkins
will keep in excellent condition
for a long time if stacked on a
low platform made of. slats
set widely apart.
Most growers now grow the
table varieties in preference to
the big cattle types—the price
of the first is often very
attractive when the crop is
ready and the farmer can thus
supplement his income.
Farm Hints
“Big Billy”: There’s nothing
new about the “roll-away” type
of poultry-nest, but it has been
modified to suit modern
requirements. The principal
change is the placing of straw
between the bottom of the nest
and the wire-floor in which the
eggs are laid. The short lengths
of straw projecting up between
the mesh attract the birds into
the nests to lay. A thin layer of
straw is also placed on the
wire floor to induce the birds
to occupy the nests, and is
removed once the birds are
accustomed to laying there.
“C.A.A.”: Pigs need green-
feed just as urgently as do other
livestock; it enables them
to resist many infections.
Where greenfeed isn’t to be
had, a legume-hay (lucerne or
clover) is advised. Very young
animals may not be able to
digest fibrous*hay, so any of
the available supplements
should be used.
“Tiddles”: To save fuel,
operate the tractor at the
correct iooling-water tempera-
ture. Check by a mercury
thermometer inserted in the top
tank. Adjust shutters to
maintain 190° F. in cool weather
and 180°F. in warmer weather.
Stop fuel leaks by remaking
joints. Avoid engine-laboring
by changing to a lower gear.
A laboring engine wastes fuel,
and loss of revs, means slower
forward speed.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
North Shore train-passengers who had
come to believe that the aspidistra had
gone out with Gracie Fields were startled
to see potted arrays of them, mingling
with bamboos and staghorns, on the
stations nearer to the Harbor Bridge.
They were there for the North Sydney
celebrations. But further up The Line
the private gardens celebrated spring in
their own traditional way. The perfume
of flowers—especially stocks —on the first
warm evenings after winter’s end pene-
trated even the train-carriages after they
left Wollstonecraft on the way to Rose-
ville, Killara and Wahroonga. The famed
floral cottage in Marion Street, Killara, is
just now perfection.
# # #
Of course, it was North Sydney’s Spring
Festival Week and there were all sorts of
celebrations afoot and afloat, for a jazz-
band played off Kirribilli wharf on
Saturday night and fireworks lit up the
general gaieties. There was a mannequin-
parade in the staff dining-room at the
new M.L.C. building (the staff, in-
cidentally, seemed to find the bikini swim-
suits uproariously funny!) and the
Mayoral Ball was also held in this beauti-
ful room with its parquet floor and wide
doors opening to roof-gardens overlook-
ing the harbor.
A gala preview was another of the
festivities. Held at the Crow’s Nest
Metro, it featured “The Little Hut” and
was honored by the * presence of the
Governor and Mrs. Woodward. They
were received by Mr. H. G. Carter, chair-
man of the Royal North Shore Hospital
(which benefited by the preview) and
Mrs. Eric Goulston, who represented the
president of the ladies’ committee, Lady
Nock being abroad. The Mayor and
Mayoress of North Sydney, Aid. and
Mrs. J. Lincoln, were present, Sir Charles
Blackburn, Professor and Mrs. L. Dods,
Mrs. Persia Porter, Dr. Wallace Freeborn,
Matron E. Sturt and the George Prattens.
* * if
Spring on the North Shore Line
contributed to the afternoon party held
by the Women’s Auxiliary of the Royal
Empire Society, the rooms being
embowered .in camellias, carnations,
sweet-peas, golden poppies and sweet-
scented stocks. These were sold for the
benefit of the Dr. Barnardo Homes in
Australia, to which the proceeds of the
party were also donated. Mrs. Harry.
Twigden arranged a delightful musical
programme, and those who were present
included Lady Berryman, Sir John and
Lady McLaren, Miss Betty Archdale,
Mrs. Rupert Scammell, Lady Morshead
and Mrs. Louis Scott.
# Q #
Madame Helene Burollaud wore the
first-to-be-seen-in-Sydney backless cock-
tail-gown (Dior designed it) at the party
given in her honor at the Australia on
Friday. Madame Burollaud is here from
Paris to launch the Harriet Hubbard Ayer
cosmetics on our market. She is very
interested in contemporary art, so it was
not surprising to see some well-known
artists at the party, including Margot
Lewers (who with husband Gerry gave a
party for Madame B. during the week-
end). Harriet Hubbard Ayer was an
American who was responsible for writ-
ing the first modern-type beauty-articles,
and her cosmetics have been beautifying
the feminine population since 1886.
Elizabeth Harrower, whose first book,
“Down in the City,” has just been
published by Cassell, is a Sydney girl
at present living in London. After
leaving Fort Street Girls' High School
in 1951 Elizabeth went to England with
her mother and stepfather, Mr. and Mrs.
R. Kempley, and studied for her Arts
degree at London University, specialis-
ing in Greek, ancient and modern. In
her writing her six years in London have
been very productive, as her second book
is already in the hands of the publishers
and she has just finished her third.
Despite its author's long sojourn abroad,
“Down in the City” has a thoroughly
Australian atmosphere and is set in
Sydney’s Eastern Suburbs. Photo by
Vernier (London).
Though a seven-o’clock-onwards party,
the My Fair Lady Soiree at the A.C,I.
Ballroom on Friday seemed to be a very
“hatty” affair. Everyone was examining
hats, trying them on, exchanging them,
winning them, criticising them and so on.
Naturally it was all very lively—hats are
so controversial! Twenty-four Sydney
milliners, from the 10s. 6d. to the 40gns.
grade, each donated a hat to be paraded
and raffled in aid of the Old People’s
Welfare Council and Food for Babies’
Fund, for which the soiree was held. One
of the most striking hats was a golden
straw for the beach, the ties under the
chin being like two doll’s plaits. Shanny
Stening wore it and looked very cute in
it. Diana Field forsook glamor to dress
up as Eliza Doolittle before beautifica-
tion ; Derek Cassidy was her father with
a beautiful black moustache. Mrs. Jack
Cassidy was president of the committee
which beguiled 500 people into coming to
this rather different party and raising
some nice funds for the charities
concerned.
* ☆ *
Success for two members of the
Women Writers’ Society was announced
by president Mrs. Gwen Morton
Spencer at this month’s meeting. Mrs.
Dorothy Catts’s biography of King
O’Malley has just been published, and
Miss Joyce Cocks, who is at present in
London, has had some sketches accepted
by the 8.8. C. The speaker at the
luncheon was U.S. Information Officer
Richard Joyce, whose subject was
“Similarities in Australian and American
Way of Life.” General talk at the party
seemed to revolve around the merits of
William Dobell’s portrait of Dame Mary
Gilmore and why Dame Mary was
wearing white gloves with an indoor
costume.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Begum Durrani, wife of the High
Commissioner for Pakistan, looking
very beautiful in a white silk sari, was
the compere for a parade of international
costumes at the Trocadero in aid of
St. Joseph’s Children’s Home, Croydon,
and Mrs. Max Cornelius compered the
parade of furs and hats which followed.
It was interesting to compare the colorful
design of, for instance, the Indonesian
costume (which goes back 1000 years)
with this season’s hats and furs, which
make last year “just so dated!”
an a
The Big Show of this week will surely
be the gala opening tonight (Oct. 2) of
Mike Todd’s “Round the World in 80
Days” at the Paris Theatre. It is to be
followed by a Divertissement a Minuit
(translated as “a diversion at midnight”?)
at Mark Foy’s ballroom, 11 p.m. to 2 a.m.
a a a
The big changeover from trams to
buses in Pitt and Castlereagh Streets is
now under way. There seemed to be a
somewhat muted air of carnival as
citizens tried out the buses and spent
sixpence on a few stops to see how it
went. Attendants waited at each stop
to give advice, and they at least seemed
to be very happy in their jobs, finding
hearty amusement in the act put on by
a lady who had waited 35 minutes for
a Bondi bus, and in the despair of
another, who had to climb the hill to
get a tram to Botany. However, the
buses seemed to flow along Pitt Street
quite freely. The lines have been
smoothed out here (workmen toiled all
the weekend to effect this), and it made
one think of an elderly dame having her
face smoothed but so that she could live


a faster life. Of course you can’t please
all the people alt the time, but it was a
surprise to hear a seasoned trammie
sighing for the old toast-rack type of
tram —“The best type of all for moving
the crowd and easiest for the conductors
except in wet weather.”
MELBOURNE
At the annual meeting of auxiliaries
to the Royal Children’s Hospital the
report showed that all previous records
had been broken ; including gifts in cash
and kind, the magnificent sum of £35,626
had been raised. This money, auxiliary-
president Mrs. A. J. Mclntosh pointed
out, had bought furnishings for 39
nurses’ bedrooms, two library- and
writing-rooms and one visitors’ lounge
in the new nurses’ home now nearing
completion. It was also noted that a
section of the Greek community had
become affiliated with the auxiliary and
already had regular days for helping in
the hospital canteen. Two new vice-
presidents were appointed: Mrs. Mark
Clements (she is president of the
American Women’s Auxiliary) and Mrs.
K. Chisholm, of the Sandringham section.
Mrs. E. G. Hale was appointed honorary-
treasurer.
ft * ft
Ten uniformed members of the visiting
Irish Guards Regiment were guests-of-
honor at the monthly luncheon of the
Young Contingent of the Victoria League.
The 60 guests were received by Pamela
Middleton, president of the Y.C. Repre-
senting the senior league were vice-
presidents Mrs. Guy Bakewell and Mrs.
Ronald Austin. Younger guests included
Margaret Herring, Barbara Hewitt,
Marjorie Tatnall, Joan Taafe, Winsome
Dane, John Kuschade and Peter
Mapleback.
ft ft ft
October 19 has been chosen by the
committee of the Raveloe Auxiliary of
the Animal Welfare League for the In
the Pink supper-dance to be held in the
Toorak home of Mrs. T. Trevaskis. The
pink theme will be carried out in the
flowers, supper and decorations. Two
pink elephants will greet guests as they
step on to the porch, and pink l'airylights
will illuminate the garden. Mrs. Richard
Linton (BY 3110), Joy Donoghue
(UY 7655) and Pamela Middleton
(BY 3998) are the ticket-secretaries.
☆ ft *
Barbara Vernon, an announcer with an
Inverell (N.S.W.) radio-station, will be
at the Little Theatre this Saturday, when
her play “The Multi-Colored Umbrella”
(it won second-prize in the Playwrights’
Advisory Board competition) is given its
premiere. Invitations have been issued by
the directors of the Little Theatre to a
supper-party in the foyer after the
premiere, at which Barbara will be guest-
of-honor.
ft ft ft
Miss Edith Fountain, who has come
from England to be headmistress of the
Melbourne Church of England Girls
Grammar School, was guest-of-honor at
a reception held by the council of the
Royal Society of St. George at the South
Yarra clubrooms of the English Speaking
Union. The reception also served to
welcome home a past-president of the
council, Mr. A. Stanley Ridley, and his
wife, who are just back from a world
tour. Dr. Norman Long, president of the
council, assisted by his mother, Mrs.
Florence Long, received the 100 guests,
among whom were Dr. and Mrs. Arthur
J. Day, Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Newton,
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Wilson and Mrs.
Horace Stevens.
☆ ☆ ☆
That the various auxiliaries of the
Queen Victoria Hospital raised more than
£ll,OOO over the past year was revealed
at the 33rd annual meeting of auxiliaries.
The money raised was used to buy
medical equipment, endow beds and
furnish a new visitors’ room. Once again
Mrs. A. D. Wenzel was elected president
of the auxiliaries; Mrs. H. R. Hamer
and Mrs. Norman Price were elected vice-
presidents and Mrs. A. G. Hunter
honorary-treasurer and -secretary. Pre-
ceding the auxiliaries’ meeting Dame
Mabel Brookes, president of the Q.V.
Hospital, presided at the 60th annual
meeting, when prizes were presented to
four nurses. Lady Paton was the guest-
speaker.
Mrs. Norman Strange, of East St.
Kilda, is the wife of the former Director
of Posts and Telegraphs. With her hus-
band, she was a member of the small
committee which organised the dinner at
the Hotel Australia in honor of former
Lord Mayor Sir Frank Selleck and Lady
Selleck. Mrs. Strange is on the board of
management of the Queen Victoria
Hospital and is vice-president of the Ada
Mary A’Beckett Free Kindergarten at
Fishermen’s Bend. Also, for her work
with the Adult Deaf and Dumb Society
Mrs. Strange was made a life-governor .
Mrs. Guy Bakewell, senior vice-
president of the Victoria League, with
vice-presidents Mrs. Ronald Austin and
Mrs. Frank May, received Canadian High
Commissioner T. W. L. Mac Dermot at
the late-afternoon party given in his
honor in the league’s clubrooms; there
were 80 guests, among them members of
the executive and working-committees,
and bowls of deep-pink and white
blossom, daffodils and camellias decor-
ated the rooms. Mrs. Bakewell wore with
her black frock a small white satin cap
edged with black sequins. Among the
guests were Canadian Commercial Coun-
sellor T. G. Major, Rear-Admiral and
Mrs. R. S. Wellby, Mrs. Hamilton Clegg,
Mrs. Frank Hobill Cole, Mrs. Robert
Hamilton, Mr. and Mrs. Morris Sloman,
Mrs. Frank Menzies, Mr. and Mrs. Rex
Oldham; and Mr. and Mrs. Michael
Maddock, Pamela Middleton, Marjorie
Tatnall, Joan Duckett and Beverley West.
& V- V
Of town-and-country interest is the
engagement of Elizabeth Jane, youngest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Chirn-
side, of Moorallah, Carranballac, to
Raymond, only son of Mr. and Mrs.
Raymond Bolwell, of East St. Kilda.
Jane is an “old girl” of Clyde, Woodend,
her fiance is an old Geelong Grammarian.
Plans are for a wedding late this year.
* ☆ *
As well as their primary object of rais-
ing funds for the Helping Hand Associa-
tion for Mentally Retarded Children, the
Robin Hood Committee encourages
young painters. Mr. Eric Westbrook,
director of the National Gallery, opened
the second of the Robin Hood's competi-
tions at the A.N.Z. Bank in Queen’s Walk,
which drew a record number of entries
from all over Australia.
The names of the first and second prize-
winners and the next best 10 will be
announced at the Bohemian Ball, which
the Robin Hood committee will hold in
the Royale Ballroom this Friday, Octo-
ber 4. In the meantime, the public is
invited to choose from the 100 paintings
on view at the bank the ones they con-
sider the prizewinners. The person whose
selection coincides with that of the three
judges will receive a sherry-set.
Over 150 guests attended the opening
of the show; they included U.S. Consul
W. Bushwaller and Mrs. Bushwaller, last
year’s prizewinner lan Bow and Mrs.
Bow, president of the Helping Hand Asso-
ciation Frank Byrne and Mrs. Byrne.
The guests were received by R.H. presi-
dent Mrs. James Alston and her husband,
and joint-secretaries Mrs. Robert Park
and Mabel Lincoln.
☆ ☆ ☆
A pleasant but cold day at Moonee
Valley brought out a rash of tweed coats,
suits and furs. Lady Burston entertained
at luncheon after the first race and wore a
deep-mauve tweed suit with a matching
hat. Her guests included Lady Wells (her
fine-wool suit in deep-rose-pink tonings
worn with a beige melusine toque), Lady
Selleck (in smart navy frock and small
white hat), Lady Warner (her frock and
threequarter-length coat in black wool),
and Lady Lienhop, who wore with her
topcoat of grey-and-black tweed a mush-
room-shaped beige toque.


end of him ... A four-, a six-,
optimistically an eight-
pounder, silver and rosy as
the rainbow from which he
took his name, who looked at
me once over the top of a
rock: so I remember him.
Again, there are the fish,
whether large or merely
respectable, that you lose in
freakish circumstances: like
the three-pound brown which
Fin Maslin hooked with a bee
from the road bridge high
above the huge green pools of
the Maunganui and which he
lost most lamentably after he
had played it from the bridge
and clambered down the cliff
into the water to lead it up-
stream to a landing-place;
and like the three-pounder I
myself lost in the Tangarakau
when it raced downstream in a
swirling, flood-yellowed rapid
and dived through a barbed-
wire fence.
There are the fish which
you lose at the last moment
through some folly in beach-
ing or netting: like the four-
pounder in Pound Creek which
lies so heavily upon my
conscience, for it was David
Campbell’s fish and I knocked
it off his line for him.
Pound Creek, running flat
and shallow and tiny between
tussocks and rushes to join the
Badja at Countegany, is
supposed to be teeming with
trout. Perhaps at times it is, if
the fish come up it from the
river to spawn; or perhaps
that is only a legend born of
the fact that one quite un-
catchable six - pounder is
always to be seen in the first
pool you come to, while
another big fish, about four
pounds, also utterly immune
from temptation, invariably
leaps clean out of the water,
half-a-dozen times during the
day, from the gleaming round
reedy pool, which is the next
you encounter.
The stream, so far as my
experience goes, never lives up
to its promises; but there is
one pool, far downstream
across the boggy flats and
broken-down granite spurs,
where I have taken, on
occasion, a few pretty fish:
and it was there, where the
long pool lies under the high
red bank, sandy at the run-in
and wide among reeds and
watercress at the tail, that
David Campbell hooked his
four-pounder. So far as I
remember when, perched
above the stream on a granite
boulder, he brought it flapping
to the backwater beside his
rock and asked me to net it
for him, I simply scooped it
into the net and thbn tipped it
out again. Well, I always did
think that was “my” pool . . .
At any rate, out went the
trout; and, grieving for his
loss and in a desperate attempt
to retrieve it, down with a
mighty splash, waist-deep into
the water, leapt the poet. I did
myself once catch a trout in
New Zealand by sitting on it—
I fell over when trying to
beach it with my foot —but
exactly what David Campbell
hoped to accomplish by jump-
ing on his four-pounder in
deep water I have never been
able to determine. However,
it was a memorable sight, like
a waterspout . . .
But far worse than merely
losing another man’s fish for
him —most grievous and most
beautiful of all except for the
occasional glimpses of a
dream-fish like the monster in
the Tangarakau are the
really big fish you lose after you
have fought them long enough
to be reasonably hopeful of
landing them.
I do not know which of the
two fish—David Campbell’s
in the long pool where Mica-
long Creek meets the Goodra-
digbee at Wee Jasper, or my
own in the vast glittering
circle of Fred’s in the Badja
—was really the bigger (mine,
I trust): but Lord, what fish
they were!
Campbell’s—all fair-minded
men must admit —was at least
an eight-pounder. And fish
were scarce that time at Wee
Jasper. He spotted it beside a
rock, far out in the ice-cold
water, and he fished for it,
with hardly a break for food
and sleep, for two whole days.
He tried it with every fly in his
box as I, lower down the
stream, was trying every fly
I had on a modest three-
pounder, until at last it took
a March Brown. And so, too,
at last, did the big one rise to
a fly, and leapt, and flashed
in the afternoon sun, and raced
up the pool and circled and
leapt and raced again: and
then, for no good reason and
when its capture seemed fairly
sure, broke free and was gone.
After two days of fishing for
it—and eight pounds if it was
an ounce!
I had not fished for my own
immortal giant in Fred’s for two
solid consecutive days ; but I
had known him longer than
that, and so lamented him all
the more.
I knew his habits. I had
watched him feeding along the
fringe of waterlilies by the
shore, at the top of the pool
where the stream rippled out
from the overhanging tea-tree
and suddenly widened into a
waterhole shining and
enormous. 1 had fished for
him before with never the
remotest sign of interest from
him—following him and trying
to anticipate his rises as he
cruised along the lily-bank. I
suspected that he lived on
water-beetles. I knew he was
a big fellow though who
could have dreamed, who could
have dared to dream he was as
big as all that?
1 fished for him that last
bright morning, seeing no rise
but knowing where he ought
to be. I crept up to the edge
of the backwater and dropped
my Tup’s Indispensable over
the Jilies; and with one
almighty swirl he took it—
and there he was racing across
the pool, that magnificent
seven-pound rainbow, only a
few ounces lighter than David
Campbell’s, if that; leaping—
six limes in all he leapt, with
my heart in my mouth each
time for fear I should lose him ;
rushing away out over the
perilous submerged rocks,
across to the far bank where
the dangerous wattles dipped
their branches into the water,
back to the centre of the pool
with such a weight and drag
on the line he was a nine-
pounder by then —that I was
certain the cast would never
stand it; leaping again with
his gigantic body silver over
the blue water, racing off once
more until there was barely
ten feet of line left on the reel
—and I had ifo backing.
Slowly he began to come in,
inch by inch, ounce by ounce
—I really do think he may
have been up to ten pounds, but
hardly more. I was afraid of
the snags near the edge— nasty-
looking submerged logs ; I was
afraid of the waterlilies; I
wondered however I could fit
him into the net.
But I needn’t have worried
about any of those things ; for
when he was so close that I
could see him plainly, swim-
ming in about six feet of water,
a colossal shadow, dark-backed
and silver-flanked, suddenly the
line went slack.
And that was my fatal
mistake. 1 thought he was off,
and he wasn’t. He had taken a
sharp little run towards me,
incredibly swift and sudden, and
when I swung back the rod
to pull the fly out of the water
he was still on. But one wag
of his head, with the grip of
the hook loosened by that
momentary slacking, and he
was gone indeed. I sat on the
bank and I shook.
If only I had not let the
line go slack —if only I had
allowed for his great power
and speed even when he was
coming to the net. . . But the
sun shone on the white sally-
gums and the wide blue pool;
and was I so sorry after all
that he had got away? He was
the most wonderful fish I have
ever lost ;• and roughly, I
should say, a twelve-pounder.
SATURDAY-AFTERNOON FOOTBALL
Waiting we construct our reverent anthology
Of new giants and gods, our modern mythology.
And now with annunciation of trumpet and drum
To prelude their appearance our heroes come.
Here then is our escape into Saturday heaven ,
Our visionary flight out of humdrum living.
Now we are the chorus for grief and agony
At the half-hearted tackle or intercepting felony,
The choric voices to dramatise desire
That sharpens our shout when hope lifts higher
At the momentary flash of gold or red or green —
Our colors painting a tense, indelible scene.
Adding crisis to crisis, the pulse speeds up its tempo
Thudding to the climax, the deafening crescendo.
Ecstatic after union in the scoring movement
The heart beats even, in time with the denouement.
Driving home dazed, watching bumper-bars relay
Time past in a flashback —all that heroic play —
We are entranced through the dry-cleaning of emotion by
The triumphant goal or tragedy of the lost try.
n.s.w.
J. S. ROWLAND.


TUST the opening Wily Bill
** was looking for. He grasped
it with both hands.
“I’ll not stand here and be
spoken to like that. If there
is any discrepancy at the end
of the week it’ll be due to bad
rostering.”
Wily Bill’s parting - shot
carried him out of the office in
a flash.
Safely reclining in a
secluded corner of the shed-
store, the boss sighed with
relief. Nothing solved. No
face lost. One day, however,
he thought fearfully, the
roster-clerk would pin him
down properly. What then?
Meanwhile Baldy Jack
cursed himself. Another five
minutes, had he kept his head,
the boss would have been
forced into a blind alley. But
what now?
Baldy Jack knew that for
the rest of the day Wily Bill
would be missing. Remind him
tomorrow what had taken
place and the beggar would
frown and scratch his head and
ask plausibly, “Now, what was
the story on that business
again?”
Tell him word for word and
he would be astonished:
“Now! Now! You’re surely
mistaken I said that. Really,
I was anxious to give you my
utmost co-operation, but it
seems a heated moment created
a little confusion. Most unfor-
tunate. Perhaps we could dis-
cuss it again, now that cooler
minds prevail, eh?” All the
time knowing that, in matters
of rostering, yesterday’s prob-
lems are beyond discussion.
Closing his eyes, Baldy Jack
relieved his feelings by pictur-
ing the satisfactory use to
which he might put the heavy
ruler that had found its way
into his hand. He relaxed into
a smile ; for a soothing thought
had come as he remembered
something about tomorrow.
r T'HE following morning
when Wily Bill approached
the roster-clerk’s office he felt
a little apprehensive. Still, the
usual act had never failed him.
But, to make sure, he would
put an extra vim into it. So
he opened the door with a
magnificent flourish and
shouted almost with ecstasy:
“Good - morning? Good-
morning! A very good-morn-
ing to you alt.”
It was all so unnecessary,
because Baldy Jack came for-
ward and greeted him with a
warmth that suggested every-
thing about yesterday had been
forgotten.
“A most charming morning
indeed,” the roster - clerk
beamed. “And you, my good
man? How does it find you ?”
The boss was badly shaken.
He prided himself as a master
of laying on the ’dust. Yet
here was a challenge. Gamely,
but still suffering from the first
blow, he fought back.
“And what is it, my dear
fellow, that imbues you with
such a magnetic personality
this fine morn?” Corny and
a bit weak, he knew, but he’d
get better as he wound up.
“Today, my good man, is
the anniversary of an event
that stimulated the intelligence,
enriched the culture and
bestowed a human greatness on
this hitherto inglorious world
of ours.” Baldy Jack paused
dramatically and placed his
hand on the boss’s shoulder.
“Today is my birthday.”
“Excellent ! Excellent ! ”
Wily Bill was coming up to full
height. “Most certainly a day
that is entitled to recognition
from a grateful posterity.”
Wily Bill felt he was gaining
ground, but somehow still felt
a little uneasy.
“I am delighted you share
my elation,” Baldy Jack was
still the pacemaker. “A day
that should not be spent in
such mundane pursuits of com-
mercial significance?” His
eyes danced the query.
The boss was finding the
pace hard, but gave his best.
“No! No! A most distres-
sing atmosphere for a day of
celebration, I insist you should
be in a more fitting place ; per-
haps . . . Now let me think”
He turned to Baldy Jack
and asked with a magnanimous
gesture, “What shall we say?”
“Right. Thanks,” Baldy
Jack replied sharply.
“What?” jerked out Wily
Bill.
“You just gave me the day
off.”
“Hey! Wait a minute.”
The boss was all mixed up.
Baldy Jack didn’t wait. He
was gone.
“What about the crews?”
the boss ran shouting after him.
But the roster-clerk was out
of sight. Yet the boss swore
he heard a faint echo from
somewhere in the roundhouse,
“Stick them all on the seven
a.m. pilot.”
Now the boss was not only
faced with having to make out
the roster but also to puzzle why
Baldy Jack had to use such a
subterfuge to get the day off.
WILY BILL felt himself
’ failing. He always
reckoned he was cunning, yet
why couldn’t he work out why
Baldy Jack didn’t just ask for
the day off and be done with
it? One thing he knew:
Baldy Jack was no fool.
“Well, in the meantime I’d
better have a go at the roster.”
Wily Bill stared disdainfully
yet timorously at the roster-
sheet. It was only a piece of
white ruled paper, but the sight
of it was an instant enlighten-
ment and caused him furiously
to ring the shed-bell and
summon the caller-up.
“Get up to the roster-clerk’s
house,” the boss bellowed to
the boy on the bike. “Tell him
his day-off is cancelled and he
must report back here at once.”
“So that’s it!” Wily Bill
swore bitterly, yet with a tinge
of admiration.
Wily Bill could see it all
now. He could imagine the
blister from head office: “Why
was it so arranged that your
driver on light duty was not
employed for forty hours to
balance the forty hours’ pay-
ment he must receive?” And
Baldy Jack replying: “I was not
responsible for the full period
of rostering concerned. I had
one day’s leave at the sugges-
tion of the depot-foreman,
who arranged the roster on that
day.”
Such was Wily Bill’s
dilemma. With the roster-clerk
off he, the boss, was party to
the offence. Thus he had to
get Baldy Jack back on the job
and make him responsible for
the whole week’s rostering-
period.
For a long time the boss sat
and worried; not so much
about blisters, but about losing
his grip. It had never occurred
to him that anyone would try
to beat him at his own game.
There was a knock on his
office-door.
“He’s not home,” said the
caller-up.
“Not home?” roared the
boss.
This was serious.
“Well, get out and search
for him. He must be around
somewhere.”
As the caller-up sped off,
Wily Bill tugged at the shed-
bell and summoned the sub-
foreman. It was a matter of
principle now.
“Every man in the shed that
can ride a bike is to comb the
town.” The boss went on like
a general issuing a last do-or-
die order: “The roster-clerk
must be found.” Then, coming
down to earth again, he
added, “The man who finds
him gets the rest of the day
off.”
This incentive sent thirty
grids, bearing thirty toil-dirty
hunters, out of the shed as
though the word had got round
that a demented publican was
serving free beer.
/CONSEQUENTLY the track-
ing down of Baldy Jack
was only a matter of time.
And, further, Wily Bill was
feeling a lot more confident;
for he had searched the regu-
lations and found something
that gave him the edge on
Baldy Jack if the manhunt
failed. The book said:
An officer on leave of
absence must advise his
superior if he intends to leave
the district. Otherwise he must
assure himself at noon each
day that a message may be
left at his residence by the
department.
In fact, Wily Bill felt his
ego properly restored. When
the phone rang he took the
call himself.
“Hello, Boss-sh!” said Baldy
jack
“You’re drunk,” yelled Wily
Bill.
“Sure, Boss-sh. Is there any
regulass-shun say a man can’t
get boozed on hish day off?
I’sh my birthsh-day—’mem-
ber?”
Wily Bill froze.
“Say, Boss-sh! There ish a
regulass-shun saysh y’ can’t
sign a drunken man on duty,
though. Ishn’t there?”
Then Wily Bill heard it:
“Your move, Boss-sh.”
PRISONER
Therefore, said the prisoner, a single window
is enough. The warder’s footsteps, hard
and monotonous, vanishing with the clash of keys*-
leave a luminous rectangle over my head
which, even though fretted with netting and
crossed with bars,
allows me the pure motion and communicable
peace of the stars.
N.Z.
W. Hart-Smith.


or remember; and the result is a book
of evenly interwoven texture, in which
everything is represented with ingenious
and evocative economy, and nothing
seems of real importance.
Galsworthy dramatised his main
work with a backbone of social
criticism: his theme was the decay of
the idea of property in his own times.
Maybe that same theme may be found
unstated in “The Swayne Family” as
it can be found stated in another
Australian novel of those times, “A
House Is Built”; and to the extent that
it deprecates the value of human effort,
this overriding theme of the ’twenties
and ’thirties finds -a rather curious
commentary in the feverish Australian
building - programmes of the late
’forties and present ’fifties.
But whether present times would
produce a young-man’s novel the
general scarcity of Australian novels
affords little opportunity (to paraphrase
“Rasselas”) of ascertaining.
Arabs and Oil
Translated from the French by
Denis Weaver, Arabian Destiny, by
Jacques Benoist-Mechin (Elek), i§
guaranteed to put the general reader
wise to the Arabian situation. But it
is especially interesting as the
biography of a man who, with thirty
followers, made himself a king in 1901,
the opening, of a century not very
kindly to royalty, and by the exercise
of wisdom and strength reunited
Arabia, altered its centuries-old way
of life, made the desert flower, turned
its subterranean oil into royalties of
£50,000,000 sterling a year and died
in 1953 one of the richest and most
assured and absolute rulers in the
world.
At the end of his first hundred pages
of largely Gibbonese history, Benoist-
Mechin introduces Abdul-Aziz, bom
in 1880 at Riyadh, in the middle of
an Arabia disintegrated under the
overlordship of the Turks, son of
Abdur-Rahman, Imam of the Wahabis,
with a “prophet and several kings
among his ancestors,” right back to
Abraham. When the boy was ten his
father had warning of the intention of
the Shammar Bedouins, proteges of
the Turks, to destroy his family. He
invited the Shammar leader to his
palace, and when the Shammar leader
said the words which were to precipi-
tate the slaughter, Abdur-Rahman’s
own retainers cut the Shammar guards
to pieces and threw their leader down
a well. The boy, held on the lap of a
huge black slave, saw the whole thing
and was splashed by the blood, a
lesson in statecraft he never forgot.
But the Turkish Government was
resentful. Abdur-Rahman fled to the
stony desert of Rub-al-Khali with his
son, and then was given sanctuary by
the Emir of Kuweit. In the ensuing
years young Abdul-Aziz saw Kuweit
beat off the Turks, and himself endured
the obloquy of one known to be seek-
ing a kingdom and considered unlikely
to get it. But when he was twenty-one
he succeeded in worrying out of the
new ruler, Mubarrak, thirty camels,
thirty old rifles and 200 riyals of gold,
and set out with his handful of volun-
teers to conquer Arabia. And, indeed,
with only twenty of his thirty followers,
he took Riyadh.
For the next five or six years he had
to defend this conquest against the
Shammars of Hail. In 1904 he
defeated Obaid, who had killed his
uncle in 1890; and he got down from
his horse, drew his sword and hit
Obaid three considerably and
even fatally surprising him.
By the age of twenty-seven Abdul-
Aziz had surprised Rashid, chief of
his Turkey-subsidised enemies, asleep,
and, with the parade of Rashid’s
head through the streets of Riyadh,
could count himself safe in that city.
He then set out to bring all Arabia
under his rule; he did clever things
like sentencing nineteen assassins to
be decapitated and pardoning one at
the last moment, to tell the story, which
is said to have somewhat impressed
thoughtful Arabs; but his most brilliant
stroke was to persuade the nomadic
Bedouins to settle around oases and
till the soil, a departure frpm the
habits of hundreds and hundreds of
years which he had great difficulty in
justifying to their religious leaders but
which formed stable communities all
over Arabia: the Ikwan, which in five
years totalled 50,000 members, the
basis of a permanent army.
As Ibn-Saud, he was ready, with this
army, to proceed against Hussein,
who held the Hejaz, and was Sherif
of Mecca, as a vassal of the Turks,
when World War I began. Ibn-Saud
signed a convention that he was
officially on the British side, and was
promised £5OOO a month; but Hussein,
in his much more important position
flanking the Red Sea, got £20,000 a
month for going over from Turkey to
Britain; and Hussein took advantage
of this to the extent of deliberately
insulting Ibn-Saud, knowing that the
British would back him up for the
sake of expediency.
And also for the sake of Colonel
T. E. Lawrence. This book being by a
Frenchman gives a detached, if often
malicious, picture of British Middle
East negotiations and negotiators.
Benoist-Mechin considers that, in back-
ing Hussein and having his family set
up to rule in Transjordan and Syria,
Lawrence was on the wrong horse, It
was a duel between the persuasive
Lawrence, who had # the genius, and
St. John Philby, who recognised in
Ibn-Saud an Arabian Cromwell—and
Lawrence won.
But Ibn-Saud was patient, and in
1924, when the time was ripe, he
moved on the Hejaz, exiled Hussein
and his Hashamite family and became
Sherif of Mecca. Having done all
this rather in spite of the British than
because of them, Ibn-Saud was less
reluctant to break the British monopoly
on oil in those parts by granting a
concession to the Standard Oil Com-
pany of California, in 1933. Over
British protests against the breaking
of an international agreement, this
concession has been continued, with
reshuffles of ownership. In 1955
Aramco was producing 965.041 barrels
a day; and America had in 1950
invested 1800 million dollars in Arabia.
Ibn-Saud dedicated his royalties,
which in his last years were about
160,000,000 dollars a year, to the build-
ing of roads, railways, palaces and
gardens, the purchase of motor-
vehicles (22,000 in 1951), electrifica-
tion of main towns, installation of
airfields, etc.
It is an almost fabulous story;
maybe only a small oasis in the desert
of Arabian history but enough to set
the reader turning back, before putting
the book aside, to Map II of the Arab
Empire of 750 A.D., which covers all
Persia, all Arabia, all North Africa,
all Spain and part of France.
Soursob Tour
Cherry-blossom tours and almond-
blossom tours are an accepted thing,
but no one seems to have thought of a
Soursob Tour to South Australia.
It doesn’t sound particularly attrac-
tive, and the alternative or botanical
name for this lovely flower—oxalis—
is not much better.
The oxalis was brought to South
Australia, like many other pests, by
IN SUMMER
As the long afternoon went drifting on
Words took their pattern in an ordered
dance
Until, at last, the low red sun had gone
And all things by some quiet ordinance
Shared the one shade.
A flood of indigo
From peak to plain set off the western
glow
While dusk obscured the pine-trees
standing near
And fell between the talkers and their
beer.
Vic.
Chris Wallace-Crabbe.


BOSWELL IN SEARCH OF A WIFE
1766-1769
Edited by Frank Brady & Frederick A. Pottle
“Many readers will find this the most entertaining volume in the Boswell series
since the first sensational LONDON JOURNAL.” — New York Times
Illustrated
At ail booksellers - - - 37/3
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE ; : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
MARRIAGE AND THE FAMILY IN AUSTRALIA
edited by Professor A. P. Elkin, the eminent anthropologist. Chapters discuss:
a statistical picture of family structure and stress; studies of the family and
marriage in relation to Australian class structure; changing social and person-
ality-building function of the family; causes of strain and failure in marriage as
they have become apparent to the Marriage Guidance Council of N.S.W. and
the deprivation suffered by children in unsatisfactory homes.
In a final summing-up Professor Elkin gives a general description of the
present position of marriage and the family in Australia, emphasising the trends
of change. 27/6 (post 7d.J
Available from all booksellers and
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
A moving story of great courage
GUERILLA SURGEON
Lindsay Rogers
A graphic account of the experiences of a New Zealand surgeon working
with the partisans in Yugoslavia during the war.
“It is altogether a most moving book, extremely well written.”
—“MANCHESTER GUARDIAN”
Ready
Shortly
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
From all
Booksellers
the first settlers. The flowers, in pots,
sold at 2s. 6d. each. Then the Anti-
podean sunshine went to their heads,
and they spread wildly over the
paddocks, preferring once-ploughed or
grazed land. Their bulbs and fleshy
stems, full of oxalic acid, can cause a
serious blood-deficiency in stock.
Children seem to chew them with
impunity, and make floral chains out
of the convolvulus-shaped, cadmium-
colored flowers. They close at once
when brought in out of the light.
Not being a true wildflower, they
are not even listed in the wildflower-
books, so that they remain virtually
unknown in the eastern States. Yet the
soursob is surely the nearest approach
to Wordsworth’s daffodils in Australia.
“Ten thousand saw I at a glance” is
no exaggeration, for at this time of
year they cover the paddocks in an
unbroken expanse of pure yellow.
For two years a neighboring vineyard
has been left unploughed and
unplanted, and in this time the sour-
sobs have established themselves.
Wading through this sea of yellow
flowers, after reading the review of
three books of Australian criticism
(R.P. 14/8/’57), I was struck by the
fact that few poets (or critics) in the
other States would know what a sour-
sob was. while every Englishman knows
a daffodil.
Geography, then, in such a vast and
varied country as Australia, must
influence schools and condition the
responses of critics.
It is surely significant that John K.
Ewers, who champions the Jindy-
worobaks, is a West Australian, a
State whose capital is an outpost on
the edge of the desert; while Vincent
Buckley, the Victorian, biased towards
Hope. McAuley, classicism and intel-
lectualism, comes from Melbourne,
that most urban (or should it be
urbane?) of Australian cities.
Still, it is an oversimplification to
ascribe the present schism developing
in Australian poetry to geography
alone: David Campbell and A. D.
Hope both hail from Canberra. The
division is rather between the worlds
of the university and the sheep-station,
and may be found even here in S.A.,
where there are more sheep than
professors to the square mile.
However, we are influenced to a
certain extent in what we write, by
where we live. (The vigor of recent
Australian writing, in a young and
growing country, compared with the
tired productions of England’s weary
young men, is a case in point.)
This could lead to a healthy
regionalism, not to be confused with
parochialism. It has already done so,
notably in Douglas Stewart’s evoca-
tions of snow-country and the Sydney
sandstone, Roland Robinson’s cycle of
Centralian poems, Max Harris’s
spiritual re-creation of the south-east
of South Australia and its legends,
David Campbell’s landscapes of light
and air, Judith Wright’s New England.
The list could be multiplied, and it
embraces some fine poetry with its
roots in the earth, not in some shadowy
classical Hades peopled by marble
figures.
The flower-pieces of Stewart and
Robinson remain valid for us all,
though the nodding-greenhood and the
purple hyacinth-orchid are as exotic in
South Australia as “the gaudy melon-
flower” in England.
Harsh landscapes of the Inland have
been rediscovered by some of what
Vincent Buckley calls “the ‘Bulletin’
school” of poets, since the Jindyworo-
baks pioneered the way. Adelaide,
Sydney and Perth are nearest by
geography and communications to the
dry outback; “the far North” or “the
far West” have always haunted the
imagination of poets in these cities.
Or they have turned to the sea at their
doors.
But in the cultivated Cabbage Patch
the Yarra flows softly and even wild-
flowers are scarce.
Nancy Cato.
Mystery Stories by 25 Famcus
Writers: Edited by Ellery Queen (Pan
Giant). Hemingway, Galsworthy.
Aldous Huxley, Maugham, Runyon.
Steinbeck, Thurber, de la Mare.
Sinclair Lewis, Wells —the two crimes
in this book are to libel both these
writers and the honored name of
“mystery.” Considered as mystery-
writers, these famous contributors are
inferior to Erie Stanley Gardner, Rex
Stout, Dashiell Hammett and even to
a whole host of mystery-writers of the
second rank; while to treat Heming-
way’s “The Killers” or Huxley’s
“Giaconda Smile” as a mystery-story
is much like earmarking Sydney’s
projected Opera House for a picture-
show.


in home lighting...
CENTURY
WITH A BATTERY THAT'S
YEARS AHEAP OF
ANY OTHER IN AUSTRALIA
Century engineers, working closely with the greatest
battery laboratories in U.S.A., bring you this marvel
lous new homelighting Battery.
NEW IN EVERY DETAIL—WITH NEW TECHNIQUES
—NEW CONSTRUCTION METHODS—NEW SUPER
PERFORMANCE.
LOOK AT THESE DYNAMIC FEATURES. NO OTHER BATTERY HAS THEM:
DSILVIUM —the scientific additive
which KEEPS PLATES ACTIVE
WITH MAXIMUM EFFICIENCY;
PREVENTS GRID CORROSION.
ONLY CENTURY HOMELIGHT-
ING BATTERIES CONTAIN
SILV'UM.
Q TRANSPARENT POLYSTYRENE
CONTAINER . . . you can see
the acid level at a glance.
B INBUILT GRAVITY BALL INDICA-
TORS . . . show state of chaige
AT ALL TIMES. No more messy
hydrometer.
IS GLASS INSULATION— gives sirs,
tained power during the BAT*
TERY'S ENTIRE LIFE.
THESE ARE THE POWERFUL REASONS WHY CENTURY
BACKS THIS BATTERY WITH A BULLETPROOF
THREE YEARS' GUARANTEE
with SILVIUM
FOLLOW THE LEAD OF THOUSANDS OF SATISFIED GRAZIERS
AND STATION OWNERS ' THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
DEMAND THE BEST . . . BUY THE BEST . . . BUY CENTURY!
SILVIUM Batteries are also available for all cars, trucks, tractors, etc.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Nrw SOUTH WALES: Centura Storage Battery Co., Ltd., Birmingham St., Alexandria
(vafr? Br r°*J h l d '\ 0 6 ? 9 \ °®-‘ 2 Wentworth Ave., Sydney. Grimley Ltd., 247-253 Broadway,
Sydney. Industrial Sales & Service (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd., Parramatta Rd„ Lidcombe. Mo,l
L S i a/t L l d r l{ i Commonwealth St.,-Sydney,. Ad'rnnx Tyre d- Rubber Co. Pty. Lid.,
Aeild & Mcl.aehlan Ave., Rushcutters Bay. (Sydney Metropolitan Area.)
LOWER RIVE RINAMotor Trdders (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 515 Kiewa St., Albury. •
PhnbTpfnnrif/ Ph J l !, ips Battery Supplies Pty., 458 Brunswick St., Valley, Brisbane
Ltd Ml Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Samuel Alim &■ Sons.
H VPf Bros. Lid., Buudaberg. Advanx Tyre & Motor Service, 61 Sheridan
S" M r'T ° Company, Bolsover St., Rockhampton. CWr d- Co. Pty.. Kllena
A-Sons, Mrckay ' ° ymple Muchmerl J & Electrical Coy., Mary St., Gympie. Jus. Croker
SOUTH 1 AVstrati 4 Slo r, a9e , Battery Co., Pty., Ltd., Macaulay Rd., North Melbourne.
St , Century Batteries (5..4.) Ltd. (Sole Concessionaires), 15 Ackland
GUARANTEED
7HIM;I! YEARS
These three gravity ball
indicators white, red
and green—are clearly
visible through the trans-
parent polystyrene con-
tainer. Their floating
position shows instantly
the Battery s state of
charge.
GET THIS FREE BOOKLET
Post this coupon to-day to
CENTURY STORAGE BATTERY CO. LTD.,
Box 52, P.O. Alexandria, N.S.W., for your free
homelighting booklet giving complete details
•f this marvellous new battery.
wsn *
NAME.
ADDRESS.
Cl>U 100
\XES'I ERjN AUSTRALIA : Attwood Motors Pty. Ltdi. 22* Stirling
St., Perth.
TASMANIA C. C. Boag Batteries, 86 Bathurst St., Hobart"; 1 274
Brisbane. St., Launceston.
NORTH AUSTRALIA: Allen Bros (J)o/rwiiti) Pty . Ltd., Darwin.
