

i
epp
eltt
SOLERO ;
SWEET OR DRY
XS
The Bulletin
Melbourne Show Preview
Wednesday, September 11, 1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered iu Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
DULWICH, FAMOUS LONDON COLLEGE
ry’LWICH College, one of England’s well known public schools,
is situated in the Metropolitan borough of Camberwell in
south-east London.
I he origin of Dulwich College reaches back to the' early 17th
century when it was founded as the old “College of God’s Gift” by
Edward Alleyn in 1619. Alleyn was the keeper of the Queen’s bears
on Bankside, an actor, theatre proprietor and a personal friend of
Shakspeare’s ; he amassed a considerable fortune and bought the
entire manor at Dulwich. , There he built the College for twelve
poor scholars and alinshpuses for sixteen old people. Subsequently,
Alleyn added to the educational facilities in order to accommodate
80 boys. Following an Act of Parliament in 1857 further alterations
and improvements were made and two entirely new buildings were
constructed. The Upper School, which is the Dulwich College of
today, was designed by Charles Barry, the son of the architect of
the Houses of Parliament. This imposing group of buildings in the
North Italian Renaissance Style stands near the original foundation
and was opened in 1870 by King Edward VII (as Prince of Wales).
One of the proudest possessions of the College is the boat in
which the great Arctic explorer, Sir Ernest Shackleton, an old
Alleynian, made one of the outstanding voyages in the history of
navigation. The famous story is told on the bronze tablet which
bears (he inscription “In this boat Shackleton, with five comrades,
made in 1916 his famous voyage over 800 miles of Antarctic sea to
South Georgia. This voyage resulted in his saving the lives of 22
members of the Endurance expedition who were marooned on
Elephant Island.” Ihe sails and the gear used for the voyage can
still be seen.
No. 366: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt .


BOOK HUNTER, Box 2(571, G.F.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you- fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
A NOVEL OF MELBOURNE
Martin Boyd’s Outbreak of Love
(Murray) is very much a novel of
manners —the manners of Melbourne
in 1913. Perhaps necessarily, for only
a novelist with the scope of Dickens
or Tolstoy dare attempt to paint the
whole range of society in a single
volume, it is limited to one tiny
segment of Melbourne: with the
advantage, no doubt, of concentration.
Boyd ignores here the whole popular
and Bohemian life of the period as it
is reflected in the rhymes of Dennis,
the poems of Wihnot and the plays of
Louis Esson. Sydney, Perth, Adelaide
and Brisbane do not exist; and the
enormous mass of the continent, except
in the barest references to one of the
characters who lives on a sheep-station,
is blanked out. The whole thing centres
upon one minute group of “aristo-
cratic” Melbourne families, living
around Toorak and fluttering about
Government House, whose entire
conversation, endlessly repeated, is
limited to the one topic: the social and
cultural disadvantages of Australia
and the superiority of England or the
Continent.
One must be careful, when this sort
of talk becomes irritating, not to
identify the author with the attitudes
and opinions of his characters. If he
seems at times to participate in them
—“This was the kind of mistake Aus-
tralians were apt to make” , . . “It was
Elsie who had the brilliant future, as
far as was possible for an Australian
girl in her own country’’--one must
remember that such comments as these
are supposed to be made by Boyd’s
first-person narrator, not by the
novelist; and on the whole the view-
point is balanced.
Boyd specifically declares that the
1914 waf “finished” this kind of life.
He praises the essential Australia
reflected in the paintings of Walter
Withers. And indeed it appears that
the whole purpose of the book,
symbolised in the love-affair of Diana
von Flugel, who doesn’t, in the end,
run off to Europe, is to paint the decline
of the European-minded Australians,
spiritual as well as actual descendants
of the first colonial families, and the
emergence of the later, “indigenous”
Australians who are content, with
proper respect for Europe, to make
their homes and find their values in
their own country.
The book must be read as one in the
series of semi-historical novels which
Boyd is writing. It does not take place,
as it seems to, almost in a vacuum, but
in the stream of those novels. It is
not —or not meant to be—a snobbish
book but a picture, part sympathetic,
part satirical, of snobs . . . and of
others from the same social circles who
are not snobs.
There will be readers, and this
reviewer is among them, who, after
calming down the nationalistic and
democratic hackles which Boyd’s
characters are so expert in arousing,
will still find the conversations about
Europe tedious, the scope too limited,
the central love-affair insipid.
Boyd does not do very well with Mrs.
Montaubyn, the one irruption of the
common touch into his glassy world of
Toorak, who has an affair with the
musician Wolfie von Flugel. She is
sumptuously painted; a fruity and color-
ful still-life; but it is difficult to believe
that she would get so drunk at the
Government House ball or that, having
got drunk, she would lapse into
cockneyisms such as “My toes aren’t
half itching, all the same” or even into
such alleged Australianisms as
“Thanks, ducks. That was good-oh.”
This is far from good-oh. It is not
creating a character but pasting on a
label ... or a libel.
The central love-affair, between
Diana von Flugel and Russell Lock-
wood (an expatriate revisiting Mel-
bourne), is so unconvincing, without
one touch of passion or even of honest
lust, that it is almost a little indecent.
And the youthful narrator (who sees
much more of the action than is legiti-
mate or plausible in a first-person
observer) is at best only mildly interest-
ing in his vague attempts to escape
from the devotion of his aunt to
flirtations with the insolent twins.
But, then, in the midst of the most
tedious conversations there is occa-
sionally a piece of really interesting
thought, as when it is remarked that
“all great literature has the imagery of
agriculture”—a most useful observa-
tion at the moment when agricultural
imagery in Australian literature is so
much criticised. In the midst of many
unsupported claims that the characters
have wit there is occasionally, as when
Freddie the aide-de-camp successfully
works out on paper the harrowing
problem of dividing £lO,OOO by two,
a stroke that is genuinely amusing. Mrs.
Montaubyn is at least delightfully
human when she reproaches the
musician for coming to bed with his
socks on; and the central affair, if
unreal and embarrassing, is acceptable
as a symbol—Diana’s withdrawal from
Europe; the establishment of Aus-
tralian values.
Overall is the picture of manners.
If this is how a certain group of people
talked and behaved in Melbourne in
1913 by all means let us learn about
them. If it is a little like being shut
in on a wet afternoon with Proust or
Trollope when you would sooner be
out in the sun it has its compensations.
This reviewer, along with many others,
has frequently asked for a middle-class
Australian novel for a change from
slums and the outback; and now, if
the ladies of Toorak will forgive one
for saying so, we have it.
Arms and the Clergyman
Novels about the war in New Guinea
are forced to follow the pattern set by
T. A. G. Hungerford in “The Ridge
and the River”; that was how it was,
as may be seen again in the very able
account of mountain-climbs, river-
crossings, ambushes, etc., of V. H.
Lloyd’s The Hidden Enemy (Angus
and Robertson).
Successors must always import some
novelty into their novels, and Lloyd’s
novelty is that the platoons under
Captain Grant are no mere patrol but
are charged in the early stage of the
war with the escort of a missionary and
nineteen women, wives of plantation-
owners or managers and some nurses,
some from as far up as Borneo.
It is perhaps not stretching coinci-
dence too far that one of the women
should be a girl the captain might have
married; and, given this, it is maybe
not surprising that the captain and the
girl should make up for lost time
during a long encampment on the hills,
or that one of the private soldiers
should rape one of the escorted women.
But unlikelihood piles on unlikeli-
hood; the captain’s mother had killed
herself and her daughter because of
marriage outside her church; the
captain hates the missionary because he
is a priest; the priest demands that the
guilty private soldier be punished, and
this precipitates a battle of fisticuffs in
which the captain strangles the priest
just as the Japanese attack, leaving
him in the mud to be discovered and
buried without comment after the
attack has been repulsed.
The rest of the action shows the
captain, badly wounded and invalided
out of the Army, being harried by an
Army inquiry instituted by the church,
and being lied-out of the accusation by
his loyal sergeant. The whole business
is too bizarre to be convincing.
A " Grammar" Headmaster
In School Is Out (Angus and Robert-
son) F. G. Phillips, a former head-
master of Sydney Grammar School,
remembers a life of teaching and travel.
He went from Sydney University
straight to Grammar in 1902, but two
(Continued on page 58)


MIGHTY TRUCKS
the International AS-160 series
m
If you are looking at medium—heavy duty trucks,
see the compact International ASC-160 Cab-Forward
Models and the International ASW-160 Four Wheel
Drive for difficult off-highway work. There is an
'lnternational truck to exactly meet your job require*
meats .
INTERNATIONAL AS-162 WITH
TIPPING BODY
INTERNATIONAL AS-160, k
TRAY BODY f
** *. whichever way you look at them!
V*
f JL
INTERNATIONAL AS-162 SEMI-TRAILER
Truck operators who have been struck by pro-
hibitive running costs should closely examine the
International AS-160 Series as dependable, money-
makers. You can expect maximum reliability from
the AS-160 Series because these trucks have been
hammered through “Trial by Torture” tests, tbo
toughest engineering tests in Australia. You can
expect —and get —more work willingness and econ-
omy from their Australian Black Diamond Engines.
Whichever way you look at the International
AS-160 Series Trucks —as a maintenance man, «
driver—or in the credit balance in your account
books —they are a mighty proposition.
Can we back our statement with facts and figures T
Certainly ! Call at the International Harvester
Office or your nearest I.H. Dealer and we'll giv*
them to you with pleasure.
ALL TRUCK-BUILT FROM THE GROUND UP!
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY.
LTD.
FMT


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Sept. 11, 1957
VoL 78—No. 4048
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521;- Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 259 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide,
Westralia: 33 Barrack - Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathans Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
UNEASY BALANCE
THE Federal Budget ran true to fore-
casts; it “leaked,” and was received
with only mild interest.
It was a superficial, tentative Budget
which bumped over the rather startling
problems of this atomic-economic age.
Treasurers in these days have the
consciousness of balancing on a surf-
board on the topmost peak of a frothy
wave of prosperity and give the impres-
sion of never knowing from moment to
moment when they will wake-up at the
bottom of a dumper with a mouthful
of sand and seaweed. There is no long,
visible stretch of smooth water ahead.
Allowing that Governments are
content to be the victims of industrial
circumstance, the factors which most
count are the price of wool (which can
only be guessed from year to year, and
which makes very nervous guessing in
the light of the history of the last seven
years), and the export-import position,
which is painfully sensitive and con-
tinually needing control.
The real factors which the Govern-
ment could control to some extent are
left to correct themselves. The most
dominant factors in the economic
situation are undoubtedly the 40-hour
week and the restrictive operations of
the Communist-run transport, engineer-
ing and fuel unions and the squander-
mania of State Governments; but these
influences are treated at top-level as
inherent in the nature of the country.
The memory of the Bruce regime,
which tried to get some order into the
industrial community, is. in circles of
Liberalism, still recalled with a
shudder. The Government policy is
to tag along in the rear of the real
policy-makers and adjust national
spending and collections to the
pattern which they and the arbitration
courts (when heeded) decide, taking
care to keep their fingers out of any
places in which they might get burnt.
The same policy seems to be pursued
in the field of borrowing, which has
become of vital consideration with the
approach of a bleak period of large
conversions.
The Budget follows on a fortunate
year in which overseas trading had it
both ways—an increase in exports of
£2OB million, an enforced reduction
under regulation in purchases over-
seas of goods of £lO3 million—and in
which the rate of increase in gross
domestic expenditure was slowed-up
considerably, as was the expenditure on
private investment in fixed capital
equipment. This was slightly lower
than in the previous year in an economy
in which the gross national income
increased by 6 per cent.
The dictum that “we have, in brief,
reached a state of substantial balance,
both internal and external, at a high
level of trade and industrial activity.”
is, however, subject to the qualification
that the “problem now, as always, is
to preserve such a state of balance, and
at the same time keep up an adequate,
though not excessive, rate of growth in
terms of population, industrial capacity,
living standards and defensive strength.”
This sounds simple when you say it
quickly, but in a country dependent for
its solvency, much less its prosperity,
on the vagaries of two or three bulk
overseas markets, budgeting bears a
generic relationship to tightrope-
walking—especially in view of the fact
that there is an ever-rising population
largely obtained by immigration, and
that unemployment is political dyna-
mite with which an unscrupulous
Opposition loves to play.
Moreover, in the background looms
the defence problem on a large scale,
and the provision which has been made
with humdrum regularity over the past
few years might easily have to balloon
overnight, a possibility which is a vital
brake on the generosity of Govern-
ments inclined to be lavish in distribu-
tion of tax-reductions, pension-rises
and concessions to industry.
Of course, also, the Commonwealth
is to a degree at the mercy of the
States, whom it must at least placate if
it cannot satisfy them; because on its
treatment of the States depends to a
large extent the electorate’s view of its
policies at the next Federal elections.
The tax-concessions in the present
Budget are not large. Families get
a sop in increased dependant-allow-
ances; age-allowances are increased in
consonance with rises in old-age
pensions of 7s. 6d. a week; war-
pensioners and war-widows gain a little;
the scope of gift-tax concessions is
widened in respect of half-a-dozen
institutions; company-tax is reduced
6d. in the £.
Also, certain recommendations of
the Huime Committee on rates of
depreciation have been adopted. The
main one represents an increase of 50
p.c. in depreciation-rates applied on
what is called the “diminishing-value
method.” These depreciation allow-
ances will provide little benefit in the
current year, but about £26 million in
a full year. Payroll-tax exemption is
to be raised from £6240 to £10,400 a
year, wiping-out the liability of about
16,000 out of the present 39,000
employers who are bound to make
returns. " There is some small relief in
estate-duty, and about £4 million a year
is to be wiped-off various items of
sales-tax, mostly to do with furnishing
a home.
The only new taxation is on diesel-
oil consumed by hauliers, which will
equalise the position of diesel-users
with those burning petrol and help
maintain the highways, and the same
equalisation method is to be applied in
the aviation field.
On the whole, it could scarcely have
been expected that in a rapidly growing
and fermenting economy in which
everything is slimed with class-war
politics, the Budget would be much
different from what it is.
Resilience to markets, to changes in
defence needs, to industrial conditions
and to loan requirements and the
behavior of the States make it neces-
sary for Federal Treasurers to keep
their resources well under rein and
to be ready to use acrobatic agility if
any of the dozen things that can go
wrong do go wrong.
At the same time, it is disappointing
that Governments fail to face realities.
The real essences of the Australian
economic problem, as has been said
before, are productivity under the
restrictive 40-hour week, plus the state
of the wool-market, plus the acute
shortage of capital.
The Welfare State and growth of
hire-purchase in post-war years have
had the effect of increasing consump-
tion at a time when productivity has
been hamstrung by the 40-hour week
and other handicaps. Productivity, too,
has tended to concentrate on consumer-
goods. with the result that capital does
not accumulate on its old scale, and
interest-rates, both for Government and
industry, are high.
It is no wonder that the Treasury is
worried about reconversion at normal
interest-rates when time-payment firms
are freely offering 8 p.c.. 10 p.c. and
even 12| p.c.—firms which write their
own ticket with borrowers, but which,
as Mr. George Davidson pointed out
in B. 31/7/’57. don’t even have to
comply with the laws which have put
such thrift-institutions as the deposit-
banks virtually out of business.
The main feature of the present
Budget, as of most Budgets in these
days, is the shirking of the issues of
national productivity and the creation
of real capital with which to go ahead
with the development of the country,
at the same time incurring a minimum
of the inflation which has dogged our
footsteps since the beginning of World
War 11.


THE "STABILISERS"


PLAIN ENGLISH
More Scientists Needed
So much has been said in recent years
about the shortage of scientists and tech-
nologists in Australia that most people
have probably taken it for grafted that
by now something is being done to over-
come the deficiency. How little has been
done is demonstrated by the fact that
despite the establishment of the N.S.W.
University of Technology the proportion
of students enrolling in the faculties of
science and technology in N. S. Wales
in 1955 was practically the same as in
1939.
The deficiency is in a sense self-
perpetuating. As only a proportion of
science-graduates enter the teaching pro-
fession, and as the number of students in
secondary schools is increasing rapidly,
there is not much chance of increasing the
percentage of science - undergraduates
unless something drastic is done. That,
at any rate, is the view of Professor
Messel, and it has inspired the Summer
School for Science Teachers which his
Nuclear Research Foundation is spon-
soring at Sydney University next
January.
It is usual with courses of this nature
to charge a fee to cover expenses. This
Summer School reverses the procedure.
Attendance is free, and expenses incurred
will be reimbursed up to £2O (£4O for
teachers from outside the Sydney area).
It is proposed to invite approximately
100-110 science-teachers to the school.
Ten vacancies will be allocated outside
N.S.W. (two to each State). The remain-
ing vacancies will be allocated on 4|he
basis of 60 per cent, to departmental
schools and 40 per cent, to private schools.
With names like Oliphant, Titterton,
Bowen, Martyn, White, on the list of
lecturers, as well as Professor Messel and
the staff of his Sydney University School
of Physics, there should be no dearth of
applicants for attendance. And if those
men can’t inspire science-teachers to
inspire their students it’s doubtful if
anyone in the world can.
Moscow- and Syria
The breaking-down of the disarmament
conference in London after months of
wrangling has been received in official and
press circles as if it were a surprise.
Actually it would have been a miracle if
it had made any real headway.
There has never been a discussion of
the sort at which the Soviet representa-
tives have not followed their normal
tactics of flow and ebb. First suggest an
expansive and generous agreement, so as
to persuade the unthinking that Moscow
is taking the lead to wipe-out armies and
particularly atom-bombs. Then stage a
sudden boorish retreat accompanied by
abuse and threats, with a few side-forays
calculated to weaken Western will to
defence and the morale of the people of
the free nations.
Each such conference leads more
clearly to realisation of what an evil thing
Communism is, and how heartless and
cruel. At a moment when the Australian
Communist party is plastering Sydney
with leaflets demanding the banning of
the continuance of nuclear experiment at
Maralinga—but not, of course, in Siberia
—Moscow is loudly exulting at the
manner in which it claims to have out-
stripped Western development of nuclear
weapons, particularly ‘ weapons of
surprise.
It is difficult to believe some of the
Kremlin’s claims, which seem fantastic
when read beside the reports on the back-
ward technology as shown by exhibitions
of industrial goods. If they are accurate,
it means that Russia is placing offensive
weapons before everything.
The Moscow papers in the past couple
of weeks have been full of boastful
articles from official sources picturing the
increase in the U.S.S.R.’s destructive
potential.
It is strange that while this boasting is
in progress a plan is put forward to out-
law force in the Middle East in Notes
sent simultaneously to the U.K., U.S. and
France accusing them of a war of nerves
against Syria, which has just been armed
to the teeth with modern weapons served
by Russian technicians.
It is only action by the Western allies
which has prevented the trouble spilling-
over into other Arab countries and push-
ing everything from Egypt northward
behind the Iron Curtain. As it is, the
Syrian position is extremely serious, and it
isn’t yet certain whether Russia intends
to face the challenge of the U.S., which
is hastily arming adjacent Jordan, and
take over there.
The next three or four weeks will be an
anxious time calling for clear-cut unity
among the Nato nations backed with
determination to see that Communist in-
roads have reached their limit in the
Arabian area. Another advance, even of
a few miles, could end in large-scale war.
Banking Changes
Plans for the reconstruction of the Com-
monwealth Bank outlined by the Federal
Treasurer last week go a long way
towards satisfying Government back-
benchers and others who felt that the
earlier separation of the central-banking
and trading functions of the Government
bank did not go far enough to fulfil the
promises of 1949 and that the powers
left in the hands of the governor of the
bank still made it possible for a Govern-
ment with Socialist proclivities to freeze-
out the private trading-banks and bring
about nationalisation of banking by
stealth.
Central-bank functions will be taken
over by a new institution to be called the
Reserve Bank of Australia, which will
also retain the note-issue and rural-
credits departments of the present bank.
The main difference in its method of
credit-control will be that instead of the
special-accounts there will be a system of
reserve-deposits under which the Reserve
Bank will be empowered to require the
private banks to deposit with it up to 25
per cent, of their Australian deposits, this
percentage not to be exceeded without 45
days’ notice being given.
All the other activities of the present
Commonwealth Banks will be placed
under the overall supervision of a new
Commonwealth Banking Corporation,
under which there will be the Common-
wealth Savings Bank, the Commonwealth;
Trading Bank and the Commonwealth
Development Bank. The last of these
three will include the present Industrial
Finance Department and the Mortgage
Bank Department ; it will provide assist-
ance to primary and secondary industry,
paying more regard to the prospect of
an undertaking succeeding than to the
value of the security offered.
The Reserve Bank will be under the
control of a board constituted on the
lines of the present Commonwealth Bank
Board ; it will be managed by the
governor. A board of 11 men will
control the Commonwealth Banking Cor-
poration. They will comprise a managing-
director, a deputy-managing-director and
the Secretary to the Treasury and eight
directors drawn from outside the corpora-
tion itself and of the public service.
Directors or employees of the Reserve
Bank and other banks will not be
eligible. Each of the subsidiary banks
will be controlled by a committee of
five members of the corporation board,
of whom one will be the managing-
director, who will be chairman.
The proposed set-up removes two of
the main points of criticism from Gov-
ernment supporters —it does away with
the special accounts and it ends one-man
control of the central and trading depart-
ments of the bank. It has been found
quite impracticable, says the Treasurer,
to separate the savings- and trading-banks.
Hpwever, a limit has been placed on the
amount of funds that may be diverted
from the savings- to the trading-bank.
This will apply to the private savings-
banks as well.
Laurel-sifting
[ I'rom “Collins Street"]
The sense of complacency which has
settled on the Victorian Cabinet in recent
months was reflected in the opening days
of the new session. Parliament met on
Tuesday, adjourned for a day to respect
the memory of John Cain, and on
Wednesday the Assembly presented the
appearance it usually has when a parish
matter is being dealt with on an off-day
at the end of a sitting.
At this writing the Government’s pro-
gramme for the session consists of a bill
to prohibit the publication of the names
of victims of unnatural sex-acts ; a bill
to iron-out some anomalies in the law
relating to divorce and insanity; a
measure to transfer some lagoon-land at
Port Melbourne; and (by thunder!) a
bill to make the Exhibition Trustees
certain of their tenure because someone
has some misgivings about the existing
Act, which has endured for 50 years.
The State Budget to be presented this
week may cause some ripples to disturb
the Cabinet’s tranquillity, but the Premier
has become rather hard to disturb
recently. There was a clear undertone to


his statement before the session that the
Government had, really, accomplished all
that it had promised to do before the
election.
It has, in fact, carried out most of its
promises; and, indeed, it has done a
thoroughly good job. But it had a signal
failure in one of its chief aims—to
produce a Bread Reform Act. It produced
an Act, with no reform, due, of course,
to the lobbying of the master-bakers and
the treachery of the Country party.
Assertions by the members of the new
C.P.-Lib. Cabinet in Queensland that they
propose to follow the successful lines of
the Bolte Government, and visits by them
to Melbourne to learn from the old
political blasters (of two-and-a-half years’
standing), have hardly been calculated to
instil a sense of inferiority into the
Cabinet.
It will be a pity if a Government with
such an excellent record at this stage is
content to rest on its laurels.
The Indestructible
The final act —until the next one—in the
Federal caucus campaign against Dr.
Evatt was a fine illustration of how Labor
parties are run in twentieth-century Aus-
tralia by the war-time champion of the
Four Freedoms.
It is scarcely possible to speak to any
one of more-than-twenty members of the
Labor Federal caucus without having to
hearken to a blast of vituperation against
Dr. Evatt as leader and his support of the
Communist party’s policies. Members
profess to burn to voice their opinions,
which are obviously genuine, and to take
part in his ejection from the leadership of
a body whose platform is no more like
the platform which he professes to
support than the Kingdom of Heaven is
like the other place.
Mr. Chambers, of Adelaide, and
Mr. H. V. Johnson, of Kalgoorlie—the
latter a man with a strong following inside
the A.W.U. and throughout Labor
branches in the West—were even ready to
voice their opinions publicly. A dozen
clamoring voices in Canberra last week
were ready to swear support to these
would-be executioners.
But the A.L.P. Federal executive soon
put an end to that. It announced the
forthcoming political execution of any
member who dared to attempt interfer-
ence with Dr. Evatt’s dictatorship. There
were threats of suspension of any
members who did not obey the junta.
When it came to the point, only one
man had the courage of his convictions.
Mr. Chambers, not normally a strong
man, went ahead with his resolution. Not
one of his craven supporters had the
courage to back him. And Mr. Johnson
sat back muttering something about there
being more to come. Mr. Daly, of
Grayndler, and his backers, who agree
with every word that Mr. Chambers
uttered or tried to utter, let him be
sacrificed.
It remains to be seen whether the
Federal executive will deal with Mr.
Chambers and throw him out of the party
for opposing (inside a party which has
declared Communism to be subversive)
the penfriend of Molotov, one who has
consistently constituted himself the
defender of Communists in the name of
freedom of , speech and action which he
has as consistently denied to his own
party-members.
It is now clear that the leadership of
Federal Labor exists on the same
principles as the leadership of Soviet
Russia. It is exercised through political
terrorism, and free will is dead’.
Mew Deal for Shoppers
Since December 14, 1955, when cigarettes,
tobacco and a wide range of foodstuffs
could be bought legally at all hours of the
day and night, and hours of trading for
petrol were extended, including a Sunday
interval, there has been an increasingly
strong demand in Victoria for better
shopping conditions, and developments in
the last three weeks now make it appear
irresistible.
Premier Bolte has in fact promised to
introduce legislation permitting the
staggering of trading-hours provided they
do not exceed nine in one day ; of allow-
ing one late-shopping night a week ; or
of legislating for unrestricted times for
opening and closing.
Surveys by pollsters in all States in
recent months have shown that a sub-
stantial majority of citizens want a late-
shopping opportunity, and the accuracy
of the polls have been emphatically
demonstrated in Victoria in the last
fortnight by the response to those shops,
suburban shopping-centres and markets
which opened.
Although the officials of the Shop
Assistants’ Federation are still fighting a
rearguard action against any change, it is
clear the members of the union (and non-
members who have been given the chance
to work) have been pleased to change
the monotony of their week, especially
when it provides, as it does in some cases,
an opportunity to earn overtime, or,
failing that, a leisured week-day morning.
Although a Trades Hall gathering of
assistants voted overwhelmingly against
later trading, the meeting was attended
only by those who opposed it.
Bolte has promised to safeguard the
interests of shop-assistants in his legisla-
tion, and one of the provisions will be
that assistants cannot be worked longer
than nine hours in any day. This will
receive public endorsement and will
reassure those who fear the new deal for
shoppers will prove a bad one for those
who serve them.
German Elections
[From Canberra}
The Department of External Affairs will
be watching closely the trends in next
Sunday’s vital German poll.
It will be the third time since the estab-
lishment of the Federal Republic in 1949
that the German people have been called
on to elect a new Bundestag.
At least 494 Bundestag members have
to be elected, and 35-million, people are
entitled to go to the polls.
Under Adenauer, the Government has
been able on several occasions to enter
into agreements which have been most
favorable to Australia.
Not the least important of these was
the immigration agreement which ensured
a steady flow of Germans here when the
northern European immigration-pool was
fast drying-up.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
AT s : \teen, just promoted to a suit
with Long pants, I was junior cleric
in a bank in one of Melbourne’s industrial
and slummy suburbs when there arrived a
document known as a Demand Order,
drawn by some optimistic person on a
gentleman well known to the police. The
manager told me to present it for either
payment or answer. The drawee’s
criminal record included vitriol-throw-
ing ... the street in which he lived was of
the type where the houses get worse —
and he lived in the last. 1 knocked at the
door, prepared to do my duty—
after all, the bank was paying me
something over £1 a week, and that
was money. The door was cauti-
ously opened by a crone who, in
a gin-sodden voice, inquired my
business and admitted me to the
parlor, where after some time my
quarry appeared: small, very dark
and sinister-looking. He greeted
me with a pleasant smile. I handed
him the Demand Order. He
glanced casually at it and tossed it
back to me, reaching at the same
time for a bottle on the sideboard.
I got ready to duck, expecting my
facial beauty to be marred for ever.
But he merely asked me to join him
in a glass of wine. I can only
assume that he recognised my fears
and need of a little Dutch courage.
We drank the wine, shook hands,
and l left. I hope that later on,
when he was hanged, some kind
person offered him a glass to help him
on his way.—“Ceg.”
ij+ ♦J-
“Kenyas”: “I remember you,”
remarked the announcer to a man com-
peting in a talent-quest; “you were on
this session before. You’re the one that
had the job on a pig-farm. Are you still
working among pigs?” The would-be
Caruso paused a minute, and then he
said, “Well, as a matter of fact, I’m
employed now at the City Council.”
❖ * *
“Doynest”: At Cheltenham East (a
Melbourne suburb) this year’s council-
election fell on the day of a fete at the
State school, where the ratepayers were
required to register their votes. Result,
a record profit of £S(X).
*l* ❖. *z*
“El Arem”: When I take my wife to
the pictures I like to choose an “A” film
—not for its greater appeal to the baser
senses, but because, although they’re
neither better nor worse entertainment
than the “G” films, at least some parents
keep their kids away from such shows,
and the volume of hysterical noise being
therefore several decibels less, a bloke
stands an even chance of getting some
sleep undisturbed.
*i* *z*
“Carlyle”: When young Carlyle found
a purse containing 30s. on a lonely back
road his honest parents directed him to
the police-station, where he was told that
if the purse were not claimed within three
months he would be kicking a new foot-
ball. When it was still there a month
later his hopes ran high, but then some-
one claimed it. I queried this with a
constable who is a fellow-golfer, only to
be told they knew the woman who had
claimed it wasn’t the owner. Yes, it was
poor encouragement to youngsters to be
honest, but such mysterious leaks did
sometimes happen.
*£♦ +J- »*»
“Dolphin”: Was visiting aboard an
American destroyer in the Pacific. A
Negro leaned over the side-rail moaning
and “throwing his voice.” A near-by
white Gob laughed. “You still a land-
lubber, Eddie?” he jibed. “Indeed Ah is,”
the Negro groaned, “and the less Ah see
ob it the more Ah lub it.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Ballyhoo”: The ward-Sister in our
Queensland hospital came in, looking
half-dead after working all day for the
losing side in the election. She was
greeted with: “You lost, Sister!” “Ob,
no,” she said ; “1 voted Liberal.” How
does the female mind work?
*Z* *Z* *l*
“Sunray”: Brought up in a large
family, 1 was used to the small economies
which go to make up good housekeeping,
like saving the vegetable-water for soup;
getting the last of the egg for custard out
of the dish by pouring some of the hot
milk on to it . . . if bread got stale it
could be used as bread-and-milk, or in a
bread-and-butter pudding, the final stage
being to dry the crusts out in the oven
and then put them through the mincing-
machine for breadcrumbs. But until 1
saw the breadcrumb machine at a large
bakery it hadn’t occurred to me that it
was just a household-economy magnified
—taking whole loaves of bread, crumb-
ing them under heat, and distributing the
result to the packeting-department.
❖ *Z* +;*
“Sanasi”: A voluminous-skirted young
woman swept on to our tram and sat
down, occupying the space of two people,
“Ditch me, Would you?"
CLARION CALL
“N. S. Wales Transport Commissioner, Mr.
Shoebridge, has appealed to Government trans-
port staff to ‘help wia back passengers to our
services/ ”
Tramguards! No more “Up and at ’em!"
Passengers need all your guile;
Don’t offend ’em ; don’t high-hat ’em ;
When you take their money, smile!
Though you pick them off the gutter,
Treat them like your family ;
They provide your bread-and-butter —
Why not serve them morning-tea?
Proof that we’ve been getting lax is
Found when bandits shrink from us,
Travel to their banks in taxis
Rather than by tram or bus!
Treat them with more circumspection
Now that money’s getting scarce ;
Soon they’ll be the only section
Left, that can afford our fares!
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


and carefully arranged the mass of
material around her to hide her canary-
legs. It was too much for the drunk
sitting next to me. “Blimey,” he hic-
coughed, “these modern young sheilahs
look like a lot of pregnant emus!”
£« *
“Sevenelms”: Mrs. Beeton twitched
slightly in her vault when “Pelham” (B.
28/8/’57) described a dowager having
“a chain with many keys” round her
waist. This was the chatelaine, the
essential insignia of the Victorian house-
wife, individual chains suspending
scissors, watch and pencil as well as the
keys of the tantalus, “guest” tea-chest and
biscuit-cupboard. It had two good
features. Its tinkling meant that the cat
was well belled ; and as convention ruled
against its being worn after noon and you
knew your way around Mama’s bedroom
you had a fair chance after school of a
dip in the tin of Huntley and Palmer’s.
❖ *> *l*
“Imperial 55”: It seems that the days
when stationery-travellers spohe condes-
cendingly of deliveries that might come in
and quotas'that might be filled and favors
that might be granted are coming to an
end. 1 was approached by a sleek gentle-
man who produced a box of carbon-paper,
• whipped the lid off, and there reposing on
top of the carbon was a cellophane-
packaged pair of stockings. He smirked
at my surprise and said there was one with
every box of 200 sheets sold ; likewise a
pair with every dozen typewriter-ribbons.
My telephonist, who wrecks a pair of
stockings every few days, was all in
favor.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Curie”: The cad’s best weapon and the
beginner’s most unnerving experience in
golf is, when the beginner takes a swing
at the ball and misses, to count in a loud
voice, “One!”
V V V
“Imperial 55”: Bibliophiles may be
interested in a limited edition just printed;
the thirty-fifth report of the Commis-
sioner of Taxation: 860 copies;
approximate cost of printing and publish-
ing, £1990. The price for such a col-
lector’s item is only 235. and the statis-
tically-minded can have a lot of fun
speculating upon the identity of the two
doctors whose income-range is £20,001
and over, the one accountant-ditto and the
two “other” professional men in the same
bracket. “Others” covers artists,
veterinary surgeons, architects, musicians,
etc. The production is a credit to the
Government Printing Office, but a vital
comma has been omitted from Schedule
No. 1 (22), where a sub-heading reads, as
printed:
Percentage Income Distributions of
Number of Taxpayers, Taxable Income and
Loss for Year by Sex.
♦♦♦ *** *
“Beam”: The fellow in the bar was
becoming a nuisance, ignoring cold-
shoulders, snubs, and a straightout request
to scram. Finally he began pawing at his
“ Nonsense , you old silly! Seventy-seven is just the right age to
marry —for a financier .”
victim, clutching at coat lapels and
sleeves. This was too much. There was
a short sharp jab with the right, a piercing
scream, a very swift awakening . . . For
the rest of the night the poor fellow was
trying to explain to his wife that he was
having a dream, he didn’t mean to hit her
in the back, and he was really very
sorry.
♦> .> .>
“Margo”: Notice on a pylon:
To touch these wires means instant death.
Anyone found doing so will be prosecuted.
♦♦♦ JU.
V V V
“Dunno”: I agree with “Tom Trout”
on the Riviera beaches (B. 14 /8 / ’57),
although my carp is about a piece of
strand that didn’t seem to be private.
Stopped deliberately overnight at Nice to
see whether the place had anything on
Bondi. Strolled next morning down the
Promenade des Anglais, and had to
admire that coastline, with the “Meddy”
bluer than Reckitt’s, under a pale blue
sky. But the “beach” below the
Promenade was a curve of gibber-country,
a level layer of stones, the stuff you’d
put in a mix for a concrete path.
♦j*
“Kate”: Melbourne’s Plaza Theatre is
delightfully furnished with old tapestries,
small marble- and tile-topped tables,
antique furniture, two baby-grand pianos,
Spanish shawls and heavy iron lamp-
stands ; but it was the huge china wall-
plaques that took my eye. One, about
3ft. across, had what I took to be Arabic
writing and lettering done in china all
over it—it looked to be hundreds of years
old. I asked the only theatre-gentleman
1 could buttonhole, but he just said, “Oh,
it’s a funny old place. No, I can’t tell
you anything about those plaques.’*
“They look so old; that one in par-
ticular,” I said. “Yes,” he said, “it is.
We’ve had it thirty years or thereabouts.”
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Kenyas”: A brother and sister, both
octogenarians and both hard of hearing,
are all that remain of a once-large family.
He lives in Britain, she in N.S.W., and
every month or so he makes a point of
speaking to her by telephone. Neither
can hear a word the other says, but each
gets a huge kick out of just knowing
who’s at the end of the line.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Pip Tok”: When the Smiths and
Joneses hyphenate their names, they are
merely avoiding confusion. Consider the
embarrassment of a Perth member of the
Smith clan who went ipto the court-
house, gave his name, and was haled
before the magistrate on a d. and d.
charge. His first-name was different
from that of the man figuring in the


“Let’s go over and have a look at Elvis."
charge-sheet and explanations revealed
that he had merely called in to report a
minor traffic-accident. In Georgia
(U.S.A.) it was found that every man of a
detachment reporting for duty at an Army
post was named Jones ; they were posted
to different platoons. During the Spanish
Civil War four freighters, each skippered
by a Jones, were waiting in a French
harbor for an opportunity to run
Franco’s blockade. Each Jones was nick-
named after the cargo he was carrying.
The best-remembered was a Welshman
with the temperament of an Elizabethan
sea-rover—“ Potato” Jones. And wasn’t
there a persistent political aspirant in
Sydney, in the larly ’twenties, who called
himself “The Only Jones”!
❖ ❖
Latest tip for the preven-
tion of business-ulcers: keep a bowl of
goldfish on the office desk. A. psycholo-
gist asserts that “the smooth, unflustered
movements of the fish influence the
people around them.” I don’t know how
he knows, but it sounds very much as
though a closely guarded top-secret of the
public service has got out at last.
❖ ❖ *
“Regal”: “Bookie’s Dog’s” par. (B.
14/8/’57) about women punters picking
winners at random reminds me that a man
of my acquaintance on the eve of the
Stradbroke received a prize geranium
“R. Pritchard” in the mail. A photo of
Kingster in that same night’s paper
showed and named the strapper holding
the bridle as R. Pritchard. A bet was
made. I won £7 on Kingster.
& £«
“Tabba”: Until recently it was the
custom of night-duty police in a Queens-
land town to indulge after closing in a
few quiet drinks at the out-of-town hotel
where I stay. When the assizes were in
town we were in the bar well after time
one night yarning with two police-
sergeants and the superintendent. I
watched the clock carefully, wondering
what would happen when the squad came
to close the bar. The phone rang. Loud
and clear from the office we heard, “Just
a minute, I’ll see if they’re still here.” A
pause ; then a head came round the door.
Another pause ; then, “They’re still here,
Bill. I’ll. give you a ring when they leave.”
As I said, it was the custom until
recently . . .
* ♦>
“ ’Arvey”: Noted a remark by Don
Taylor quoted from his book, Ten Stars
South of Asia, on the Red Page (B.
21/8 / ’57). Mr. Taylor marvelled that
fellow-diners in a Queensland hotel took
little notice of Doc. Evatt stolidly eating.
Imagine Aneurin Bevan receiving similar
treatment in England, he says, and implies,
“Not likely!” But I saw something just
like that happen in London. Travelling
on the Underground from Charing Cross,
about two years ago, I was surprised to
see Bevan, complete with mop of unruly
grey hair and unpolished shoes, sitting
opposite me. Sure enough, he got off at
Westminster and not a single head had
been turned in his direction the whole
time.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Apemantus”: My butcher is a good
bloke who believes in a fair go. So,
when he advertises that he will supply
top-quality meat and carry the increase
during the seasonal shortage, that’s busi-
ness and I’ll take his word for it. But
when he assures me in an ad. in our W.A.
paper of “continued high competitive
prices” that, dear customer, is truth-in-
advertising and I know he means it.
❖ <♦ ❖
“Swelpme”: Because a traveller on
N.S.W. Railways, may book a seat for
the forward journey but
can’t reserve the return until
he reaches the distant
station, I had given my wife
the return-half of my ticket
to book on her arrival a
day earlier. Passing through
the barrier on Sydney station
I was stopped with the
request to produce the
return-half of my ticket.
The porter insisted that he
couldn’t let me board the
train until I produced the
return. I asked. how I
could produce the return
when it was at the other end
of the 80-odd mile journey.
We’d reached a deadlock
when the porter called over
a big man, obviously a
plainclothes detective. He
was more 'tolerant. Yes,
technically it was a breach,
but under the circumstances
. . . I’m still trying to work
out how I would have been
cheating the Commissioner
if I’d bought that .return-
ticket with the secret inten-
tion of not coming back.
WHISKY—GOO’ LOR'!
“In a Maryland (U.S.) zoo a tiger which had
been moping on its own after its mate had given
birth to a cub was brought back to its normal
good temper with doses of whisky.”
We know exactly how you felt,
Licking forlornly at your pelt.
On this you’d cotton :
You’re just the father, nothing more;
A kind of joke ! So you felt sore
At being forgotten.
Mumma and babe the spotlight hold,
While you’re left slinking in the cold —•
And then some busy
Keeper gave you a decent shot
Of Scotch. Now, Homo sapiens is not
A bad bloke, is he ?
At first it looked suspiciously
Like that damned medicine, as he
Tilted the bottle.
And then you got that gorgeous glow
After the grog began to flow
Down past your throttle.
Tige, we rejoice you didn’t get
Urges to ribaldry, as beset
Some humans, after
They’ve had a session on the stuff.
The famous smile was quite enough
For you, not laughter.
“Tiger, tiger, burning bright
In the watches of the night,”
They now appease you.
Put on an act and earn a “snort.”
But tell us off the record, sport —•
Did hiccups seize you ?
And those big stripes you liked to flaunt
When in your erstwhile jungle-haunt
You went a-killing,
And at them hunters took their shots —
To trade ’em all in now for “spots”
Will you be willing ?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Thay Called Him Mary
By W. J. DUNCAN
HE was born in Brisbane, educated
in New Zealand, and went to
War 1 with the New Zealand
forces. He then joined the R.A.F.
and by the end of that war had been
awarded D. 5.0., M.C., D.F.C.
And they called him Mary.
He added an A.F.C. to his array in
peace-time flying ; and he had gained a
C.B. while commanding a group in the
Battle of Britain when, in September,
1941, he went to the Middle East. He
was given a collection of fighter and light-
bomber squadrons, which he welded into
the Desert Air Force in a hard training-
programme under his close personal
supervision. D.A.F. was ready for action
when the Eighth Army opened the second
Libyan offensive in November.
At that time the military still retained
fhe pet excuse in explanation of reverses
—lack of air-support. Before the cam-
paign opened, it said: “If we can rely
on the Air Force to give us just three days
air-cover we’ll drive Rommel out of
Libya.”
So D.A.F. gave the Eighth Army, not
for just three days, but for over three
weeks, an air-cover much more effective
than the Army had ever dreamed of, and
D.A.F. was beginning to complain of lack
of ground-support.
In the second Benghazi road-race,
which followed the battle, D.A.F. con-
tinued to give air-cover, moving as rapidly
as the Army, and with its ground-parties
mostly up with the armored-car screen.
During this period Mary formulated his
principles of mobility based largely on
the application in practice of experienced
recommendations from No. 3 Squadron,
R.A.A.F.
Then Rommel chased the Eighth Army
halfway back. At the Gazala Line both
sides settled down to prepare for the
next round.
In the three-months’ lull Mary moulded
the Desert Air Force until it was a reflec-
tion of his own personality, vigorous and
vital, confident and unconventional.
D.A.F. was often known as Mary’s Air
Force.
He aimed at maximum flexibility,
mobility, and ruthless aggression. He got
this by inculcating his principles to the
extent that every man could be counted on
to act accordingly, while at the same time
allowing wide scope for initiative ill
adaptation.
He believed in the personal touch, and
moved about so much among the units
that his long figure, clad in shorts and
bush shirt, was a familiar sight to every-
one. . At first he travelled by car; until
one day the Army captured intact a light
German aircraft, the Fiesler Storch,
which Mary grabbed for his own use. To
the repeated orders of Middle East H.Q.
that the Storch was to be sent back for
expert examination Mary reacted as did
Nelson putting telescope to blind eye.
Meanwhile Mary flew all over the place in
the plane.
The Storch could land and take-off in
a very short run, so Mary had a private
airstrip constructed within his own H.Q.
He could step out of his caravan into the
Storch and fly off to pay an unannounced
visit to the office or mess of any unit. He
once landed it in a street of Tobruk
when he went there for a conference.
Consistent with the personal touch, all
orders within D.A.F. were given verbally,
by telephone, or occasionally by signal.
Never was there the fetish of confirma-
tion in writing. So complete was the
confidence that no one ever queried the
verbal orders, even when Mary demanded
land usually got) the impossible; but,
of course, Mary knew that his boys
would display the initiative required by
the occasion, and, if necessary for the
success of an operation, even disregard
the order.
Mary never tolerated so much as a hint
of red-tape. One day a staff-officer wrote
" Nothing like a few bumps and circuits before the W.R.A.A.F.s arrive."
a letter to another staff-officer on a
routine matter. When Mary discovered
this he said: “If my officers have to get
down to writing letters they havg no
proper understanding of the job out here.”
Back to Cairo went, the offending staff-
officer, unwanted in D.A.F., but probably
not knowing why.
TT N speech and manner, Mary was decep-
tively gentle, a steel wire with satin
sheathing. No one knew why he had been
given the nickname of Mary, though it
was conjectured to have been because of
this characteristic. But anyone who
judged on a surface impression was soon
shocked into realising that the import of
his words revealed his utter lack of
scruple in getting what he wanted for
prosecuting the war-effort, and his ruth-
lessness in so doing.
Middle East H.Q. never dared to post
an officer to D.A.F. without first getting
Mary's approval; if they did, it was
almost certain the officer would be sent
back to Cairo by return-mail. The only
person who could give Mary an order
with reasonable expectancy of its being
obeyed was the C.-in-C. himself, Tedder
(and he should have known what to
expect, because he appointed Mary to the
job).
Typical of Mary’s manner was his
attitude to his senior administrative officer
when planning operations. In the highly
mobile operations of D.A.F. supply was
a vital factor; but, in his planning, Mary
never asked first of all whether supplies
would be available. They just had to be
available, even when his plans called for
quick operations from an isolated airfield
200 or 300 miles out in the desert.
After Mary had told the staff of his
plan and set out his requirements, he
would turn to the S.A.O. and ask in an
almost plaintive way: “Can we do that?”
But the small-voiced query was not ask-
ing “If . . .” ; it was merely ensuring that
the S.A.O. thoroughly understood what
was required. How the job was done,
Mary never asked, nor by what means;
if it involved highway robbery, grabbing
Army supplies and trucks, or forcing the
job through at the point of the gun, it
was all according to the rules of D.A.F.
All his senior staff, as well as his opera-
tional commanders, were hand-picked:
Mary trusted them, gave them his confi-
dence, and never interfered with their
methods of doing their jobs. And he was
never let down,
TW7 ARY trained his Desert Air Force to
iMI be ready for anything. In April,
1942, while the lull continued, he called
(Continued on page 49)


POLITICAL POINTS
There must be some truth in the report
about the Soviet long-range missile.
After all, Malenkov has already been
fired 2000 miles to Ust Kamenogorsk and
Molotov 3200 miles to Outer Mongolia.
• •
Chambers’s no - confidence motion
against the Doc. fizzled-out when no one
rose to second it. Plenty of caucus
members were seconding it in their hearts,
but their heads told them the time wasn’t
ripe. Or perhaps it wasn’t so much a
matter of heads as of seats.
v # *
Last year in his Budget speech Tom
Playford said he was “most reluotant”
to increase rail- and tram-fares and had
avoided doing so. Since then he has
overcome his reluctance. Tram- and
bus-fares went up a couple of months
ago and rail-fares are to jump 12| per
cent, on September 15. Water-rates have
also been given a steep rise.
The S.A. Budget—Playford’s 19th—
provided for an expenditure of £71.6
million (up £5.8 million on last year) and
a deficit of £520,000. This Budget,
incidentally, in money-figures is as big as
a pre-war Federal Budget.
• •
Ngo Dinh Diem, president of Vietnam,
received all the official invitations a minor
Royal personage receives during his visit
to Melbourne, and accepted them; but
the press relegated him to the back page.
There was obviously something lacking,
and it was soon recognised. He took tea
at the University with a bevy of pretty
Vietnamese commerce students, and made
the front pages.
• •
Queensland’s two Labor parties are in
rather a quandary over the seat-insurance
fund they set-up when they were a happy
band of brothers. This fund, to which
State Labor M.P.s contributed, was meant
to provide lump-sum payments of £250
for defeated Labor members. Since the
split in the party the fund has been frozen
and 19 A.L.P. and Q.L.P. members who
lost their seats last month are waiting for
their party bosses to decide who owns it
and what’s to become of it.
• •
“Dollars” Daly, Labor M.H.R. for
Grayndler (N.S.W.), no doubt thought he
was scoring a brilliant point when he said,
“It costs me nearly as much to board my
dog while I’m in Canberra, as old-age
pensioners get a week to live on.” The
remark was meant to illustrate the miserli-
ness of the provision for pensioners, but
it could have results unlhtertded by the
speaker. Plenty of people, for example,
would feel envious of the wealthy politi-
cian who can afford to board his pooch
out at £4 7s. 6d. a week. On the other
hand it might be suggested that Daly
would find it cheaper to stay at home and
send his dog to Canberra. As long as it
came to heel when the party-Whip cracked
no one would be any the worse off.
• •
“New State” interest is flourishing again
in central Queensland. The chairman
of the Capricornia New State movement
told a meeting at Emerald that it was
hoped the objective would be achieved
within three years, with Emerald as the
capital.
• •
It is estimated that live buffaloes from
the Northern Territory would fetch £5O
a head in Borneo if they could be
caught and shipped. The buffaloes,
increasing at a rate which makes them a
serious pest, are reported to be needed
in Indonesia as beasts of burden, for meat,
and as a means of barter or for discharg-
ing debts.
• •
Illustrating the rate of progress his
State has maintained since the war, Play-
ford said that whereas Australia’s popula-
tion had increased by 31 per cent, in
the past 12 years, that of South Australia
had grown by 40 per cent. Much of the
difference was explained by migration.
Migrants had accounted for 20 per cent,
of the South Australian increase, com-
pared with 12£ per cent, of the increase
of the Commonwealth.
• •
Hart, M.L.A., the lawyer who defeated
Dr. Dittmer for the Mt. Gravatt seat in
the Queensland Assembly, wants to see
a permanent Law Reform Committee
established. He’s particularly concerned
at the position of the judiciary in
Queensland, and claims that under Labor
Administrations the independence of the
Bench has been seriously weakened.
Reminding the House that Lands Board
chairman Creighton had been sacked on
a party vote, he said that under existing
laws the same thing could happen to a
judge. He suggests a provision whereby
a judge could only be removed from
office by a three-fourths or four-fifths
majority of Parliament.
• •
Final figures in the Wallaroo (S.A.)
by-election: L. C. Hughes (Lab.), 3385 ;
H. A. Dowling (L.C.L.), 2613. Majority
for Hughes, 772.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: Discussions on redevelop-
ment of some of the inner areas around
Melbourne, now largely depressing and
depressed slums, suggest that there is
scope for replanning around most Aus-
tralian capitals. The Melbourne talks,
called by Housing Minister Petty, included
the Building Industry Congress builders
and architects, and semi-Government
bodies. The general suggestion is that
private capital may redevelop areas on
land bought from the Government after
it had been acquired by the Housing Com-
mission and the existing buildings
demolished. High-density development
near the city would be a great help to
traffic and other problems. Sydney might
take a look at similar schemes for the
’Loo, Darlinghurst and Redfern. These
areas may yet become fashionable again.
.Why not?
• •
“Wusslean”: No one can say there’s
no civic pride or progress in Melbourne.
A bridge over Moonee Ponds Creek,
dedicated to the memory of the pioneers
of Essendon and Brunswick, and provid-
ing a much-needed link between these, two
municipalities, was opened recently. The
need for the bridge was first suggested a
mere forty years ago.
s • •
There’s no doubt Eddie Ward and his
mob in the N.S.W. section of caucus
would like to depose Arthur Calwell
from the deputy-leadership of the Federal
Opposition, but they haven’t yet got the
numbers or the nerve to try. There’s
plenty of sniping going on, and Calwell’s
life probably isn’t especially happy. Dan
Curtin objected the other day to the fact
that Calwell and the Leader of the House
(Harold Holt) arranged the business of
the Reps, in conferences “behind the
Chair.” He declared, in a fine piece of
bluff, that it was time the Opposition “told
the Government what to do,” instead of
being told what could be done. Calwell
retorted mildly that he had acted in good
faith, and thought he got the best pos-
sible opportunities for the members of the
Opposition.
• •
Melbourne City Councillor Maurice
Nathan, who led the “Promote Victoria”
mission to the United States, was invited
last week to give Queensland Cabinet the
lowdown on his tour and its results.
"There's a move afoot in Queensland to
emulate the experiment. Nathan, who
is holidaying up north, told Nicklin’s
Ministers that he was all for promotion
schemes of that sort. What benefited one
State benefited all Australia. There was
a limit, he said, to what Government
agencies could do, and it was up to
private enterprise to represent itself.
• •
Initiated by the Communist-led Sea-
men’s Union and endorsed by other
maritime unions, the policy of boycotting
vessels built for the Australian coastal
trade unless an Australian crew is sent to
England to bring them out has been given
the blessing of the A.C.T.U. Latest
victim is the C.S.R. Co.’s new Rona.
The maritime unions try to get it both .
ways. They maintain this attitude in
regard to new ships yet when an old one
is sold to overseas buyers they also
demand the right to man it to its desti-
nation, with wages and expenses paid
until they return to Australia.


The bullet in the back of the neck hav-
ing gone, out of fashion for discredited
political leaders in Russia the Kremlin is
hard put to find jobs for the fallen.
Shepilov, former Foreign Minister, has
followed Malenkov and Molotov on the
Far Eastern trail; he’s reported to be
teaching in a commercial institute some-
where in Siberia. Kaganovitch is said to
be bossing a cement-factory in Sverd-
lovsk. What Russia really needs is a
House of Lords.
• *
Despite the posturing of Labor poli-
ticians and allegations that the Budget-
rise of 7s. 6d. is an insult to pensioners
it is doubtful whether anyone really
expected any more than that. The
wisdom of the flat-rate increase is very
dubious. The money might be better spent
in improving the lot of pensioners in
really desperate circumstances —single
persons without means or relations —as
suggested by Professor Downing a few
months ago.
• •
The nine shopkeepers who stayed open
on Friday night in an attempt to do a
modem G ocher-act for Manly will have
many well-wishers. But it is doubtful
whether the man who, according to one
shopman, “drove from his home in
pyjamas and dressing-gown just to con-
gratulate us” was doing the cause much
good. After all, a bloke who apparently
gets ready for bed by 8 p.m. isn’t a very
strong witness for the necessity for a
late-shopping night.
• •
“Big Tom” Dougherty, Federal boss
of the A.W.U., has for years been advo-
cating the abolition of the N. S. Wales
Legislative Council and criticising Labor
Governments for not getting rid of it.
Now he is Labor’s nominee for a vacant
seat in the august Chamber.
Dougherty claims his acceptance of
the nomination doesn’t mean he has
changed his mind, but that experience as
a member will give him practical
experience of the value or otherwise of
the institution. Unless this experience
causes him to change his mind he thinks
he may be able to persuade other M.L.C.s
to work for the abolition of the Council.
In the meantime, of course, he’ll pocket
the £5OO a year that goes with the other
perks of the job.
• •
B.H.P.’s bonus-issue of one-for-4}
brings nothing immediately tangible to
shareholders —only more scrip, and the
promise of a lower div. on new capital-
raisings. Div.-rates will be adjusted to
give a shareholder around the same
annual cash return from his 122 shares
that he previously got from his 100. That
is for the present, anyway, and while the
reduction operates new capital raised will
cost less to service than it did when the
10 p.c. rate was being paid. The bonus-
scrip is to be financed out of share-
premium reserve—premiums paid in by
the shareholders- in the past under terms
imposed by the co. itself or by Capital
Issues Control. Charging premiums On
shares is an undesirable and misleading
practice, and B.H.P.’s present action will
make amends.
• •
Our eloquent legislators:
N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture Graham
(to Opposition-leader Morton): You have
more butt than a biilygoat and only half
the biains.
Mr. Morton : It’s a pity I didn’t butt you.
Speaker Lamb: Order!
• •
When the Queen opens the Canadian
Parliament next month she will ride
through the streets of Ottawa in a carriage
which was built in Melbourne more than
half-a-century ago. It was made for Lord
Hopetoun, first Governor-General of
TALKING US TO DEATH
Australia, and he later passed it on to
Lord Grey, who became Governor-
General of Canada in 1904. When Lord
Grey finished his term in Ottawa he left
the carriage there.
• • -
Nominations for the Gregory by-
election in the Queensland Assembly will
close on Friday. At the weekend the
executive of the A.L.P. was still trying to
decide whether Duggan could be given the
nomination instead of A. Watson, who
was carrying the party’s banner when the
death of Mines Minister Devries (Q.L.P.)
caused the postponement of the Gregory
poll.
• •
The cold wind seems to be blowing on
the road-hauliers. Close on the heels of
the High Coui;t judgment declaring the
Victorian ton-mile tax valid came the
Budget slug of Is. a gallon on diesel fuel.
As both taxes are to be used for the
upkeep of highways they are likely to meet
with general public approval, as the
heavy transports have been the biggest
offenders in cutting-up the roads.
• •
Melbourne City Council claims its rate,
based on net annual-value, is the lowest
of any Australian capital city. It was
2s. sd. in 1950-51 ; 2s. 8d„ in 1951-52;
2s. 9d. in 1952-53; 2s. lid. in 1954-55, and
a rise of 2d. is expected in the next esti-
mates. So, like the fox, the council is
catching-up fast.
• •
The effect of the expansion of oil-
rehning in Australia is shown by the
figures for oil-imports for the financial
year 1956-57. Imports of crude and
refined petroleum products totalled
9,546,000 tons, of which only 1,218,000
tons represented refined products. This
was 13 per cent., compared with 27 per
cent, in the previous year. The output of
Australian refineries increased by 27 per
cent, during the year and exports of
petroleum products (mostly to New
Zealand) rose front 637,000 tons to
733,000 tons.
• •
“Joe Bee”: Close elections (B.
4/9/’57)? In the early ’thirties Corowa
was won by one vote. The primary votes
gave sitting-member Ball (C.P.) a lead of
several hundreds, but short of an abso-
lute majority. The Labor “how-to-vote”
card advised voters to vote 1,2, 3 up the
card, Quilty being the Labor candidate
and Creed, the other man, Country party.
Fortunately for Ball, the Labor Leagues
in the western portion of the electorate,
Tocumwal, Finley and Jerilderie, refused
to vote that way and brought out their
own cards with Ball No. 2. When the
preferences were distributed Ball was
ahead by one vote. In the recounts —
there were two—for every paper the
Creed scrutineer suggested might be
admitted the R.O. could show him a
Ball paper rejected for the same reason.


PERSONAL ITEMS
First foreign Head of State to visit
Australia, Ngo Dinh Diem, President of
the Republic of Vietnam, stepped from
his Constellation aircraft at Fairbairn
airport, Canberra, into brilliant sunshine
and a stiff, cold breeze. Not since the
Royal Tour had the airport witnessed
such pageantry. Governor-General Sir
William Slim, Prime Minister Menzies,
heads of diplomatic missions and top
military brass were there to do the honors.
The diminutive President wore colorful
blue national dress and was obviously
impressed by the welcome.
Son of a high-ranking public servant
under the French colonial regime, one of
a family which has been Christian for two-
hundred years, Ngo Dinh Diem is an
ardent nationalist who in turn refused co-
operation with the French, the Japanese
and the Communists. He came to power
in 1954, after the fall of Dien Bien Phu.
At the time he was not given much chance
of saving Vietnam from the Reds, but so
far he has done very well. On October
23, 1955, the people of Vietnam approved
by national referendum the deposition of
Emperor Bao Dai and the proclamation
of a republic with Ngo Dinh Diem as
President.
After the Canberra visit, which included
an exchange of views with Ministers on
political and military developments in
South-east Asia, the President went on to
Melbourne and Sydney, and inspected the
Snowy Mountains Scheme.
• •
Mr. Justice Russell Le Gay Brereton,
president of Sydney Legacy, is a nephew
of the Professor J. Le Gay Brereton
whose name will always be associated
with a historic period in Australian
literature, and with The Bulletin ; for
all that, the subject of Dubois’s sketch
denies any literary ambitions or accom-
plishments, although he admits to a little
BENCH
sub-editing experience on “Honi Soit”
when he was an Arts student; and, with
other students of his vintage, he has lively
memories of his famous uncle.
At the Bar his practice was fairly general
—common law, some divorce, a little
equity—with the last three years (before
his elevation to the Bench) as Crown
Prosecutor. He joined the A.I.F. as a
private in 1940, served with the 2/2nd
M.G. Bn., was commissioned in Cairo in
1941, and, apart from his two years as
A.D.C. to Morshead, was with his unit
from go to whoa.
Questioned about his interest in child-
welfare, and particularly in problems of
juvenile delinquency (he’s chairman of
the Child Welfare Advisory Council), he
said that this was associated with, but
in some respects emphatically separated
from, his work with Legacy. In Legacy,
he said, problems of juvenile delinquency
arose very infrequently ; the basic idea
of Legacy was that these, and other ills,
should not arise; but, of course, the
general work of Legacy, with its emphasis
on family welfare, interlocked with this
other interest in child welfare. Asked
what, in his opinion, was the major
factor in juvenile delinquency, he said
“discord in the home —particularly
between the ages of two and seven.”
• •
Melbourne “Herald” shook the news-
paper world last week with the announce-
ment that Duncan James Riddle, its
director of advertising, and Philip
Frederick Jones, its general-manager, had
been appointed directors of the company ;
newspapermen on newspaper boards
almost seem oddities.
Phil Jones was in the Federal Treasury
until Keith Murdoch nabbed him for the
“Herald” in 1951. Jim Riddle, who had
been an agency personality (among them
Catts, Patterson ; Griffith Shave ; George
Patterson and Samson Clark, whom he
represented for a time in London and
New York), is an expert on modern
merchandising and advertising.
• •
Home after 3y years as chief medical
officer for Australia in Britain, Dr. J. B.
Mathieson, whose work included screen-
ing British applicants for migration,
liaison between British and Australian
health bodies, and representing Australia
at various national health conferences.
Next February he will take up a new
appointment as Commonwealth Director
of Health in Westralia. He is no stranger
to the West; he was quarantine-officer in
Fremantle between 1938 and 1941.
• •
Geoffrey Dutton dropped into The
Bulletin office in the course of a motor-
trip, camping by the wayside, from
Adelaide to Sydney and back —a mere
flea-hop to a writer who in 1951 drove
from England to Australia. Dutton, who
is with Max Harris and Bryn Davies co-
founder and co-editor of a new literary
magazine, “Australian Letters,” is a
lecturer in English at Adelaide University.
Fie has published several travel-books and
novels and this year expects to have two
new books out: his poems from Edwards
and Shaw under the title Antipodes in
BOOKS
Shoes and a set of essays on America
from Chapman and Hall under the title
States of the Union. He is a member of
the well-known pioneering and pastoral
family which was established near Yass
(N.S.W.) by W. H. Dutton in the 1820’s
and moved to Anlaby (S.A.) in 1838.
• •
Harold Gatty, dead in Fiji at 54, was
an Australian airman who did most of
his flying abroad. Born at Campbell-
town (Tasmania), and educated at St.
Virgil’s, Hobart, and the R.A.N. College,
he became famous in 1931 when, as navi-
gator to Wiley Post, he shared the honors
on a record round-the-world flight-
eight days and 15 minutes. After that he
was a senior air-navigation officer with
the U.S. Army Air Corps for five years
and from 1935-39 was Australasian,
representative of Pan-American Airways.
In recent years he owned and managed
Fiji Airways. With Wiley Post Gatty
wrote Around the World in Eight Days.
He also wrote many technical papers on
air-navigation, a handbook on ocean-
survival (the U.S. Armed Forces adopted
it) and at the time of his death had another
book being prepared for publication in
London. America awarded Gatty a
Distinguished Flying Cross.
• •
“C.S.”: Sir John Uatham, forgier Chief
Justice of the High Court, who could have
been Prime Minister but stepped aside
for Joe Lyons, became an octogenarian a
week or so ago, but he is still lecturing
and writing, and walking round Mel-
bourne with his characteristic precise


tread, as neat as his syntax. At 80,
Latham, as always, knows exactly what he
is doing, and looks like it.
His chief interests now are in associa-
tions conceived to broaden the Australian
outlook, such as the Association for
Cultural Freedom and the Australian-
American Association ; but he also serves
Red Cross, the Elizabethan Trust and
various scholarship committees. He has
no official ties, but he is probably Mel-
burnian No. 1.
“I’m determined to keep living as long
as I’m alive,” Latham said on his birth-
day, and “Although 1 have retired, 1 am
not tired yet,” puns that a few years ago,
in office, would have rock-’n’-rolled him.
• •
“Uramao”: Like his predecessor (Sid
Holland), K. J. Holyoake, N.Z.’s new
Prime Minister, was in his youth a sport
of no mean order. A Rugbyite, he
packed in the scrum, a topnotch hooker,
and was still in his prime" as a footballer
when he entered Parliament in 1932, as a
youthlet (for there) of 28 ; he didn’t give
up the game till five years hater, and for
a time was vice-president of the N.Z.
Rugby Union. The Holyoake family was
at one time so numerous and keen on
football that K.J. captained an All-
Holyoake seven-a-side team. Tennis and
deerstalking were also in his energy list,
and as well he was a prominent cyclist.
F. G. (Sanely) PHILLIPS, former Head-
master of Sydney Grammar, whose
“School Is Out ” is Red Paged in this issue.
Off to Malaya on an assignment for
U.N.O.’s Food and Agriculture section.
Dr. J. Legg, former Director of Research
with the Queensland Department of Agri-
culture and Stock, is a world-authority
on cattle-tick biology and tick-fevers:
during his 42 years with the department
he made these his special study. His work
was rewarded in 1928 with the rare degree
of Doctor of Veterinary Science and last
year by the Gilrulh Prize.
• •
J. L. Skerrett, the man who directed the
rush war-time job of establishing the
Adelaide-Darwin telephone-link, is now
Director of Posts and Telegraphs in Vic-
toria. Trained as an engineer, he was
with the P.M.G. engineering division until
1948; thereafter with the construction
branch as principal buildings-olficer and,
from 1955,. Director of Buildings. He
told a press-conference in Melbourne on
taking up his new post that the depart-
ment intended to make greater use of
mechanical aids in both underground and
overhead cable-laying. Objective: over-
taking the backlog in phone-connections.
• •
Passed through Fremantle on his way
tojlritain to work for London University’s
doctorate of philosophy in political
science, 47-year-old David Williams,
former Queensland farmer and war-
blinded ex-Serviceman. The blindness
resulted from privations suffered in
Changi. Obliged to give up farming in
1951, Williams, with the help of Braille
teachers, overcame his blindness and
jentered the Queensland University, taking
his B.A. degree in 1954 and his M.A. last
year. Accompanying him on the trip are
his wife and young son, a tape-recorder
and Braille typewriter. A Gowrie scholar-
ship, a travelling - fellowship (together
worth £l2OO a year) and the shipping
company’s free passage for selected
graduates, have fipanced the trip.
• •
New Commander:
Lieui.-General Reginald George Pollard,
C.8.E., D. 5.0., is ihe fourth G.O.C. Eastern
Command since World War II and the first
New South Welshman among them —the rest
were two Victorians and a Queenslander. The
new G.O.C. is an alert, pleasant officer with the
look of a Lighthorseman (his manner is
reminiscent of Chauvel).
Born in Bathurst m 1903, he was commis-
sioned from Duntroon in 1924 and appointed
Adjutant and Q.M. to the 17th Battalion (the
derivative of a famous fighting A.I.F. unit of
France, with St. Quentin its culminating glory).
Sent to India to the Royal Fusiliers and Yorks,
and Lancs., he graduated to the staff on his
return and had just finished his course at
Camberley in 1939, at 36, when war broke out
and he was appointed assistant Australian
liaison-officer in London. After service with
the B.E.F. in France during the stirring times
of 1940 he became successively Brigade Major
25th Brigade, A.1.F., and G.5.0.l with the
Seventh Division, with which he saw service
in the Western Desert and Syria, transferring
during the Syrian campaign to command of
the 2/31 Infantry—mentioned in dispatches.
Afterwards he raised the first A.I.F. (M.E.)
Staff School to Jbe established by the Australian
Aimy.
A period in service with the British Ninth
Army and Middle Eastern H.Q., A.1.F., was
followed by special duty in India and as
G.5.0.l at the A.l.F.’s Ceylon H.Q.; but in
1942 he became G.5.0.l with the Sixth Division,
went lo New Guinea with George Vasey, and
served with the Sixth, Seventh and Ninth
Divisions, gaining his D.S.O. during the Papuan
campaign.
For a time after the war he was chief i rv.tr uc-
tor at the Staff College at Queenscliff, and, after
a course in air-support in England in 1946,
became Deputy Commandant of the School of
Land/Air Warfare and then Directof of Per-
sonnel Administration, A.H.Q., took a refresher
course at the Imperial Defence College, and was
successively director of Military Operations and
Plans and chairman of the Joint Planning Com-
mittee. He was military representative of the
External Affairs Department at the inaugural
meeting of the Anzus Council at Honolulu in
1952, was Military Adviser to the Prime Minister
at the Prime Ministers’ Conference in 1953, and
in July of that year took over command of the
BARRACKS
Australian component in the British Common-
wealth Forces in Korea. In 1954 he became
Q.M.G. and Third Member of the Military
Board. He has served as A.D.CUbolh to King
George VI and to the Queen, and is one of the
most experienced of senior Australian officers,
with a modern outlook, but with firm views
about the role of the Army in the defences of
the atomic age.
• •
Victorian Anglicans are hard to toss
when it comes to digging up the appro-
priate (and historic, of course!) blessing,
especially when it relates to food and
shelter. It isn’t so long since Archbishop
Booth came up with an historic blessing
for the fishing-fleet and bestowed it at
Queenscliff. Now Canon G. F. Smith,
vicar of Bairnsdale, has revived “the
blessing of the fleece” at John Blenner-
hasset’s property, Spring Vale, near
Bairnsdale, reviving an ancient English
custom. A Merino was shorn by Donald
Blennerhasset during the service, and the
fleece was given to the local Legacy. The
canon made it clear to the congregation
that religion wouldn’t be shut away from
industry if he could help it.
e •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, Connie Antill, wife of composer
John Antill and mother of Jill.
In Sydney, at 80, John Thomas Partridge,
superintendent of Royal Maval House, Sydney,
from 1920 to 1951.
In Melbourne, at 92, B. J. Parkinson, Mel-
bourne’s oldest practising solicitor and “father
of amateur athletics"’ in Victoria —he founded,
in 1890, the Melbourne Harriers, Victoria’s first
amateur athletic club.
In Adelaide, Rev. A. C. Stevens, who served
in Congregational churches in S.A., Victoria and
N.S.W. Past president of the Congregational
Unions of S.A. and Victoria.
In Brisbane, at 72, Philip Lewis Day (M.E.
Cornell University) of Underhill and Day.
Widely known in Queensland engineering.
Jn Melbourne, at 60, Lawrence Myers Dug-
dale, one of Australia’s greatest authorities on
Shorthorn cattle. He had been vice-president of
the Royal Agricultural Society of Victoria
since 1953.


ABORIGINALITIES
I’D put the limit of a snake’s dash at a
bit under 200yds.; after that it gets
winded. The idea that Joe can slide at
lightning-pace is hooey. I’ve never yet
seen a snake that could make me run —
and I’ve had a 16ft. python both chase
me and try to get away. I’d put top
pace at about 5 m.p.h. It might exceed
that slightly for short sprints, but over
100yds. it slows to snail-pace and
wallows in its stride. And at the end of
that burst it’s in no condition to fight—
its reflexes are too slow. —“Ophir.”
< * ♦ .* ft
“Amdee”: Bedarra Island, near Dunk
Island (N.Q.), home for a score of years
of artist John Buist, has been sold to a
Wealthy Victorian. I now humbly enter
the scene as caretaker of this tropic
paradise. Showery windy weather made
visitors unlikely, so I settled down to a life
free from civilised complexities. An extra
heavy rain-squall woke me one night.
Did I replace cockpit-cover of the boat
after using it? was my first thought. A
dash down to the beach confirmed my
doubts, so an unpleasant job had to be
done in pouring rain. The walk
back to the island house was pleasantly
warming to my nude body, but my
temperature dropped to below zero as I
shone an electric-torch beam up the path
and saw two glowing eyes staring at me
from the open bedroom door. It was
only a cattle-dog from the west end of
the island who had come trotting over
to see the new caretaker, and keep
him company. Conan Doyle, living in the
Island of England, must have experienced
the same moment of terror, that didn’t
quite kill me, when he wrote “The Hound
of the Baskervilles.”
* » * *
“Manamoi”: New Guinea official, in
the course of an inquiry, questioning an
old miner of limited but high-voltage
vocabulary, reproved him for unparlia-
mentary language. The old hand
explained: “Listen, when I like a bloke,
I call him a b ; when he is a b ,
I call him Mister. Good day to you,
Mister ." *
* * * *
“Macann”: Bush terms I’ve puzzled
over in stories written in the ’eighties,
’nineties and thereabouts, but which seem
to have gone out (if they were ever in
general use), include “boggabri”: my
guess is that it denoted pumpkin—but,
if so, why? Another is “nailrod” for
tobacco: where does it come from? Yet
another is “fifty-niners”: who were they?
And while we’re on the job, exactly what
"He WILL keep on pawing me!”
were the ingredients of a “long colonial”
and what sort of chook was a
“brammer”?
* * * •
“OG”’ Our suburb too has a three-
f B TO take him
t ‘IV Vfi a J• i ?
[ £ to wak f' up , to an , old A ? e . lurk ’
he S ets tlred he leaas
2 P •
* , * „
“Eureka”: In a nicely produced book-
let, “Nor’-west Horizons,” issued by the
N.S.W. Department of Tourist Activities,
there is a good description of the Moree
artesian-bore baths, fed by waters forced
up through man-made bores. Says the
letterpress: ‘Tittle wonder that the abo-
riginal people knew the district as Moree,
meaning a spring.” Actually, the abos.
knew the place as Moree long before
there was such a thing as an artesian
bore, and how would they know there
was artesian water underground waiting
to be tapped? This sort of thing makes
one doubt other meanings given to place-
names. Often the alleged aboriginal
meaning is fitted in with something with
which the aborigines could have had no
knowledge whatsoever.
* * * #
“Uramao”: Tests in Germany and
Switzerland on pink-pine from the State
forest at Ahaura (N.Z.) might start some-
thing. The pine is said to provide an oil
similar to that of the ambergris exten-
sively used in the manufacture of high-
grade perfume. Collected by fossickers
along the beaches, ambergris once
brought N.Z. a rich harvest, which the
pink-pine oil could renew if it can be
economically extracted —the pine is
plentiful enough.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Homes built of beer-
bottles have their drawbacks (B. 21 / 8 / ’57).
I visited a small house made of them
in a northern N.S.W. township 20-odd
years ago. Tomatoes could have been
grown inside it in winter, whilst in mid-
summer you could almost have roasted
a joint simply by putting it on the kitchen-
table. Presumably air in the bottles isn’t
an insulation.
* * * *
“A 1 Pal”: Mention of an English
Rugby Union team that played here in the
long ago under the Rev. Mullineaux rang
a bell somewhere, and presently it dawned
on me that the rev. gent, was the self-
same person immortalised by “Banjo”
Paterson in a poem of the same name—
“l’d reckon his weight as eight-stun-eight,


(kx&y, tr
L&oks a &r


and his height at five-foot-two . . .” Here,
then, was to be found, with Paterson, a
link with the past. Having spent an hour
or so with the “Banjo’s” collected verse,
I fell to wondering how many of the
people, places, incidents, written into
his works were real; except, of course,
the obvious ones. Was there a “Saltbush
Bill”? Did “The Man from Ironbark”
really have —“one hit before 1 go”?
Perhaps there is a record of sorts set
down on paper, or in some men’s minds.
Is there?
/'AKARITQ, a New Zealand town mori-
bund for many years, gave up the
ghost recently when its last habitation, the
Royal Hotel, was burnt down. Ninety
years ago, when the West Coast was
purchased from the Maoris for 300gns.,
Okarito looked to have a glowing future.
It was a port-of-call for ships from Aus-
tralia in the gold-boom era ; in its 25 pubs
10,000 miners held revelry by night. After
the destruction of the hotel a temporary
licence was granted, but, the pros-
pects being dismal, the few settlers had a
final beano, then folded their tents and
melted away, leaving Okarito to the rare
white herons which make it their breeding-
ground. It was the first part of N.Z.
sighted by Abel Tasman. —“Uramao.”
* * * •
“Kerba”: Not long after I’d been
driving a bulldozer my wristwatch turned
it up. The watchmaker could find noth-
ing broken, loose or bent, and was a bit
puzzled until he found out what I did.
Then light dawned. He pointed out two
wheels stuck together, and explained:
“It’s simple enough. A jolting, vibrating
’dozer generates electricity, though
in such minor quantities that you
couldn’t feel it. Your hand picked up the
current from the levers, conducted it up
your arm and into those wheels. They’re
held firmly together by electro-
magnetism.”
* * * *
“Wire-buster”: The theory put forward
by Clive Morton (B. 14/8 / ’57) that hops
from the local brewery, used under the
soil of the show-ring, has assisted many
jumpers to reach extraordinary heights in
Cairns (Q.) is one of several I’ve heard.
Another was that the air of the balmy
north put the spring into horses’ hooves —
quite serious, this one. Some years back
a connection of Thumbs Up told me that
jumpers were assisted by the springiness
in the ring created by the thousands of
old tyres thrown in the swamp over which
the show-ring was built. Another
informant insisted that the way the jump
is faced towards a low saddle in the
ranges was the reason. Perhaps the horse
thought he had to get over that as well.
It’s a shame we can’t get the horse’s
opinion of why he jumps higher at
Cairns. Then we’d all know. But what
a dull world it would be then ... no
theories.
# * # *
“324”: Apartheid isn't confined to
humans. When a black sheep is shorn
and let into the yard its mates promptly
step aside, and it moves forlornly in an
ever-widening lane for perhaps an hour,
or even a day. Never, at first, will white
sheep, themselves shorn, let a black one
touch them.
• * * *
“Paddy Doyle”: The camel that
savaged Upfield’s driver (B. 10/7/’57)
would have treated a kindly master in
similar fashion. You can put your best
effort into grooming, ticking and feeding
him, but you’ll never dim the oont’s hate
of humans. It is unusual for the crankiest
of horses not to display some docility to
at least one rider: not so with your ship
of the desert. Unlike the equine, it is the
bull-camel that comes in season, and
usually in winter, not spring. Then, a
careless rider is unsafe even mounted,
as some rogues will snake their necks
round for a ration of ankle. They don’t
just snap and let go, but hang on grimly.
A few lusty slugs with a pick-handle on
the sweat-pad at the back of his head
make the most effective deterrent.
“Cowyard Kate”: The long, solemn
dial of a moke can dissemble a wild sense
of humor. Rocky, our pensioned-off
hack, delights in waiting until you’ve got
your head down milking; then he’ll
quietly nose up and nip the cow on the
rump. While you, the cow, the stool, the
bucket and the milk are mixed-up he’ll
trot off with the nearest thing to a horse-
laugh you could imagine.
* * * *
“Runcie”: My father acquired a three-
barrelled shotgun (B. 21/8/’57) whilst
serving in the cruiser Brisbane in German
East Africa during the 1914-18 war. It
was made by Krupp. It, too, is 16-gauge,
heavily choked on the right-
hand barrel, sufficiently so to
down a rabbit at 85yds., and with
an 8.8 x 57mm. rifle underneath.
In this case a breech-lever,
flicked to the right, directs the
left-hand hammer down to fire
the rifle. Beautifully engraved
with grouse on one side and deer
on the other, and with the wal-
nut woodwork pistol-gripped
and chequered, the gun is still in
good order and is still used by
my brother at Wilcannia
(N.S.W.).
“Moorapi”: A W.A. cocky who was
into the Taxation Department for over
£5000 in unpaid taxes explained to the
Bankruptcy Court that his crops had been
ruined by emus; thieves had got away
with 700 sheep and a trotting-horse worth
£1000; and the white-ants had put the
kibosh on the whole thing by eating his
only book of records!
THE MUSHROOM PADDOCKS
In lowland pastures like a Flemish
landscape,
Under a swinging bell of pale sky,
Cloud-muffled clapper of gold sun,
The sallow-painted mushroom paddocks
lie
Ringed in a slanting wall of hyacinth
ranges,
Dark slope of trees, green of the black
cock’s wing,
And, flowering a long hillside, forgotten
orchards
Bough-deep in grass, snow-drifted in
warm spring.
The autumn blackberries leap in a scarlet
tartan
Across the crouched land. I have startled
the racing hares
From still-bent tussocks; watched a
crane’s slow rise
And solemn burlesque of flight; the
ghost-faced steers
Brushing the glittering morning; and,
each year,
—The gentle irony of conjuring earth ;
Small coolies bowing to celestial sun —
Orchid-pink, owl-flecked, the cockhat
mushrooms come.
VICTORIA.
JESSIE G. ALDRIDGE.


BUSH MATES
THE bush —the real bush, such as you
find in the Kimberleys and the
western Northern Territory ; the nearest
post-office somewhere around 300 miles
away—seemed a lonely place when I
first saw it.
1 had taken a job as pumper during the
drought. My bore was 3b miles from
the station homestead, and might as well
have been 300 miles, for I had no means
of transport other than my legs. There
were about 3000 head of cattle on the
bore, and my job was to keep the pump
going to give them all the water they
wanted.
As the modern diesel-engine is prac-
tically foolproof, my day's work con-
sisted of starting-up the engine at 4.30
a.rn. and closing it dowm at 6.30 p.m.,
the whole operation, including refuelling,
taking about 15 minutes at the most. The
rest of the time was my own.
Now, you can’t spend the whole day
reading—l know, because 1 tried. What
you want most is a mate to talk to, and
I pretty soon found 1 had all 1 could
wish for. They were all around me, in
the trees, in the scrub and drinking at
the trough.
T GOT the gardening fever and spent
much time, sweat and toil digging up
the virgin ground around the bore and
planting seeds —melon, pumpkin, lettuce,
corn, etc. It was a great success, particu-
larly with the wild-lite.
Two early mates were a couple of
white herons, Napoleon and Josephine.
While 1 was digging they would be all
around me ; anything that wriggled or
walked was grist to their mill, and they
had no fear of man or beast. Nap. had
a hell of a temper.
■pVERY morning when I got up 1
would go to the tank and from around
the edge get anything from two to twenty
assorted bats that had fallen in the night
before. There must have been every type
of known Australian bat in that tank
during the three months I was there,
except the flying-fox. Big browns, little
browns, blacks of all sizes, a couple of
near-whites and some very vicious little
black fellows whose bite was not to be
sneered at.
When I rescued them from the tank
I would hang them on my fingers, one to
a finger, and they would start cleaning
themselves like cats. Hanging by a hind
leg they would use the other as a cat
uses her forepaws to wash herself.
I put a small rail at the back of the fly-
tent and would hang the rescued on this
when they were cleaned and dry. Here
they would stay all day, and at night
they would fly away. All except one
little brown fellow. He had me worried.
When all the other bats had flown he was
still there on his perch.
I took him in the palm of my hand and
stepped outside, but he refused to fly
away, so I placed him back on the perch.
Next morning he was still there. I
couldn’t see the object in saving his life
to have him die of hunger, so I mixed a
concoction of sugarbag honey and
powdered-milk, which I managed to get
into his mouth with a matchstick.
This business went on for three days
and nights ; on the fourth night I awoke
in the small hours and Jimmy had gone.
It was with some surprise that I found
him hanging on his perch again next
morning. I thought I must have been
mistaken the night before, and sat up
that night to make sure. When darkness
was really settled in young Jimmy merrily
flew away into the night, and was back
on his perch again before I awoke next
morning.
I gave up the special feeds, but for three
weeks he continued to fly away and return
to the roost; then one night he flew
away and never came back.
I still don’t know' whether a sense of
security kept him coming back for so
long, or whether he just liked the milk
and honey.
Actually, he wasn’t as secure as
appeared. This was the cause of an
argument I had with Napoleon.
One morning 1 w'as lying on my
swag in the fly-tent when Nap. walked
in, walked over my chest, and, just like
a woman at the butcher's, paraded up
and down in front of the bats, made his
selection and swiped one.
I grabbed Nap., rescued the bat and had
to listen to the most abominable screech-
ing for the next five minutes. It was sheer
rage. He stood on my swag and cursed
me for every known and unknown devil
in the bird vocabulary. I hung a mos-
quito-net over the entrance after that.
'T'HERE were birds of every descrip-
tion around that bore, but very few
of them became as tame as those I have
mentioned. One that did was the
bush-turkey I called Grandpop. He
was big, even for a cock bird, and came
in with two hens. At first they would
walk away whenever I came near, but
one day 1 came around the tank as they
were drinking and they merely gave me a
glance and carried on.
I started throwing them currants and
raisins. The old fellow would come and
pick them up and carry them to the hens.
Eventually he started taking them out of
my band, and came when he felt hungry.
THERE was one other waif rescued
-*-■ from the tank. It was five-o’clock, at
night; I looked in the tank and there was
a chicken-hawk, half in the water, cling-
ing with his talons to the corrugated side.
I picked him out and got a hefty bite for
my pains, but that bite must have just
about taken all the go out of him. He
became very limp and could not even
balance on the sleeve of my leather
jacket.
There didn’t seem much I could do for
him, when I remembered I had a half-
bottle of whisky which some tourists had
left with me. I took half-a-spoonful
of this and added half-a-spoonful of
water, prised open his beak and let the
liquid trickle down his throat. For a few
seconds he was quiet, then the whisky
must have reached his tummy. He jerked
up, let out a screech, and lay down on
his- side.
I thought I had killed him, and put
him outside the fly-tent with the inlention
of burning him in the morning. When I
got up I lifted him to put him on the fire,
but noticed he was still warm and soft;
looked a bit closer, and he was moving
his wings and his eye seemed to roll. I
knew just how he felt —it knocked me
that way, too ... a 100-per-cent, hang-
over. He, also, got over it.
After the rain I joined the stock-camp,
and six weeks later went to the bore.
Even the butcher-birds —tamest of all —
failed to recognise me and flew away in
alarm.
GEORGE GAPE.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
{lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with tha
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office (or Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
DEPRECIATION AND TAXATION
r T'HE Federal Government is
J making a circuitous
approach to the very real
problem of Australian indus-
trial productivity. It appears
that the Canberra civil service,
though growing valiantly in
numbers and cost, is not going
to be flustered or pushed by
any representations from those
outside the exclusive precincts
of the A.C.T. After all, those
people outside Canberra merely
provide all the national income
of the Commonwealth and all
the indigenous capital that is
created on this broad continent.
Certainly the Government
iself is hampered by Constitu-
tional considerations galore.
But judging by the number of
lawyers in Parliament, surely
legal ingenuity can do some-
thing about that .
Hulme Piecemeal
Industry will be grateful that
in Sir Arthur Fadden’s latest
Budget some real help will be
granted to it through further
piecemeal implementation of
the Hulme report on rates of
depreciation allowable for taxa-
tion purposes. The cost to the
Treasury of the increase of 50
p.c. in rates of depreciation
applied under the diminishing-
value method is not incon-
siderable —£26 million in a full
year, This is being accompanied
by a cut of 6d. in the £ in the
standard rates of company-tax
at a cost of £144 million ; but
as an extra shilling in the £
was imposed as recently as
March, 1956, for the purpose
of curbing inflation rather than
boosting revenue, the “cost” to
the Treasury in this case can
hardly be regarded as any sacri-
fice.
An additional recommenda-
tion of the Hulme Committee
now being implemented is that
which relates to written-down
plant being sold at a profit on
book-value. The profit-surplus
may now be used to write-down
other plant, in which case
there will be no immediate
impact of tax on this book-
profit.
So Far, No Further
The Treasury has not yet
decided to implement the
Hulme recommendation that
depreciation be allowed on
buildings used in the produc-
tion of assessable income, or
that, in order to provide for
obsolescence, taxpayers be
given options, within prescribed
limits, to take rates of depreci-
ation above the standard rates.
And at the outset of its
report the Hulhie Committee
made it clear that certain
matters raised at the hearing
were outside its terms of
reference, and were not
reported on. These included
(!) the vital matter of an allow-
ance by way of depreciation to
provide for the estimated cost
of replacement of an asset, as
against the present basis of
depreciation calculated on the
original cost of the asset, as
well as (2) special initial depre-
ciation, and (3) the question of
an investment-allowance on the
cost of new plant, as allowed in
the United Kingdom.
Nothing has been done about
other matters not included in
the terms of the Hulme report
but equally pressing. One is the
unfair and economically inhibit-
ing system of taxing private
companies. Another is absence
of any provision to encourage
mining companies along the
lines now operating in Canada.
This Canadian provision,
which has been of notable
assistance in the phenomenal
development of Canada’s
mineral resources, gives a
mine a tax-free period of three
years on initial production.
After that it allows all proper
expenses to be deducted from
mine revenue, including the
writing-off of the plant and
all pre-production development
expenditure. From the resulting
profit-figure a further deduc-
tion of a third is allowed for
depletion before net taxable
incomp is arrived at. Tax-rates
of 20 p.c. on the first $20,000
and 47 p.c. on the excess are
then applicable on the net
taxable income,
The Background Economy
Australian income-tax laws
are mostly rule-of-thumb laws
that ignore the background
economy of the country and
which in the long-run may
prove to be disastrous laws in
consequence.
In European countries (and
in dynamic Canada) much more
consideration is given to the
effect of Government financial
policy on industrial productivity
and export problems than is
ever to be seen in Australia.
And an examination of taxa-
tion policy will show that in
very many cases where Aus-
tralian tax-laws are amended
the chief thing that has hap-
pened is that collection of tax
is thereby made easier for the
Taxation Department.
As the next few years go by
it seems almost certain that
competition from the larger
overseas manufacturing
countries will be an increasing
menace to Australian industry,
This is because of the fact that
Australia is lacking in the
capital and other resources with
which to match the tooling-up
of countries even in the
category of, say, Sweden,
Canada, Holland and Belgium.
Capital Requirements
The Australian political
attitude is to ignore the require-
ments of capital-production.
Governments and civil servants
never create capital. But they
can do much towards helping .
industry to create capital.
The remarkable thing is that
industry in Australia has gone
on creating capital for so long
during the past 18 years, in
most cases the investor in Aus-
tralian industry has got very
little out of it. Rarely do his
“benefits,” whether in the shapo
of dividends, new issues,
bonus-issues or sharemarket
“appreciation,” offset the
depreciation in money that has
occurred and which has been
more than acknowledged in
the basic wage.
“Capital Erosion”
There must be a change in
the Commonwealth Treasury's
stand on the problem of creat-
ing capital within Australia.
Because of the still-unsym-
pathetic attitude towards what
has been appropriately called
“capital - erosion” we see
B.H.P. forced to increase the
price of its steel so as to get
12s. in the £ of the resulting
extra tax-paid profit in order
to finance its steelworks expan-
sion. Yet a more realistic


A word to the wise
For people who don’t take risks with
money, interest-bearing deposits with the
Bank of New South Wales offer an attrac-
tive balance between a comfortable return
and absolute security of capital.
The manager of the nearest branch of
the Bank of New South Wales will be
pleased to show you the advantages of
interest-bearing deposits for short- or long-
term deposits. ,
Rates of interest at present are:—
3|% per annum for 24 months
2|% per annum for 12 months
2\ / per annum for 6 months
2|% per annum for 3 months
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Oldest and largest trading bank in Australia
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5738C
altitude towards depreciation
allowances in respect of assets
having a higher replacement-
cost today would have kept
increases in the prices of steel
products down to a minimum—
surely a most important
achievement in inflationary
times like the present.
The Bulletin repeats most
emphatically what it has said
cn several occasions in the past
decade —in Australia there is
not enough production, not
enough efficiency, not enough
profit, not enough saving, not
enough investment.
It is true that the whole con-
ception of the Welfare State,
including the fantastically ill-
timed 40-hour week, has been
against the creation of adequate
capital.
But Governments have not
been helpful. The fact that
the Federal Government has
been so slow in correcting
anomalies and injustices of the
income-tax laws is a measure
of its apparent unawaieness of
the national problem.
Only in a gingerly fashion
are any Governments game to
talk about productivity. And
few are prepared to consider
the question of creating capital
at all, though every Govern-
ment is keen to get its hands
upon it once it is created.
Bamboo Creek Gold
Bamboo creek gold
MINES, No Liability, is
being floated on the results of
diamond-drilling on four of a
number of leases and options
comprising the major portion
of the Bamboo Creek field,
Pi 1 bar a Goldfield (W.A.).
Bamboo Creek is about 40
miles n.-e. of Marble Bar, and
135 miles by road from Port
Hedland.
The Bamboo Creek field has
been worked from time to time
over the past 60 years, mostly
selectively, and above the 50ft.-
level (though some work-
ings have gone down to 275 ft.,
before faulting took place),
the old idea being to pick
the best stone even if from
narrow veins. Up to 1936
38,292 tons was crushed for
53,6370 z., an average of loz.
Bdwt. For the whole field
records show 64,566 tons
crushed for recoveries of about
an ounce to the ton.
By 1936 most of the ore-
bodies had been lost through
faulting, a characteristic of the
field.
The Prophecy Syndicate has
for the past year been engaged
m a programme of diamond-
drilling on a subsidised basis in
conjunction with the W.A.
Mines Department.
The prospectus says that con-
tinuity and consistency of the
ore-bodies are shown by the
fact that six boreholes all
intersected the ore-body at
widely spaced intervals. The
work done in interpreting the
flat pitch of the ore-shoots and
faulting of lodes, with the
information obtained from
diamond-drilling already under-
taken, “has entirely altered the
outlook of this field.” The
piomoters believe that the
general behavior of the ore-
bodies is now known, their
presence at substantial depth
has been proved over a long
line of country, and values dis-
closed in drilling “have been
entirely satisfactory,” showing
“a reasonable correspondence
as to widths and approximate
values of ore-bodies at depth
with those worked on the sur-
face.” The ores are free-
milling, and readily respond to
treatment.
F. G. Forman, consulting
geologist, considers the field to
be “an excellent mining risk.”
The co. intends to continue
an exploratory-drilling pro-
gramme to assess the ore-
potential and then to plan the
plant and development pro-
gramme. A State battery on
the field will crush the ore at
10s. 6d. a ton until the co.’s
own plant is operating. On the
basis of a throughput of 3000
tons of ore a month, the pros-
pectus quotes an estimate of
working-costs at £6 a ton.
Mr. Forman summarises ore
prospects as being of the order
of 1140 tons per vertical foot,
averaging 15dwt. to 16dwt.
Water-supply and timber are
two problems in the area—
which, of course, is notoriously
hot in summer. But drilling is
expected to overcome the
water-supply problem. It is
a very real problem neverthe-
less.
The public has been offered
800,000 ss. shares, payable
2s. 6d. on application, and
136,000 shares are reserved for
application at par by the
Prophecy Syndicate within the
next two years. The syndicate'
also takes £40,000 in cash,
while £2300 is earmarked for
extension of options and £2200
is to be reimbursed to the
Mines Department for
diamond-drilling.
Working-capital left from
the first payment of 2s. 6d. a
share will be £45,000, with
£lOO,OOO uncalled to provide
for further expenditure, if all
options are exercised, £30,000
is payable in cash.
A Withholding Tax
IN STEAD of the present
long-drawn-out and vexing
method of taxing overseas
shareholders in Australian
companies, at the rate
appropriate to their incomes,
th e Commonwealth Govern-
ment intends to introduce a
flat-rate “withholding tax” bn
the lines in force in the U.S.A.,
Canada and South Africa.
Sir Arthur Fadden has
commended the withholding
tax for its simplicity, certainty
of liability and promptness of
payment, and says that the
Government believes that
overseas investment in Aus-
tralia would be encouraged
and administration would be
simplified by the adoption of
the method. Overseas it is
“favored by both Govern-
ments and investors alike.”
The matter of the rate has
yet to be determined.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. —In Divorce.
TO RAYMOND WILLIAMS late of 5
Burns Street. Campsie in the "State of
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
DUUCIE WILLIAMS has Died a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 970 of 19. r >7 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 4th November 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from H. Q. SLARKE & CO.,
Solicitors, of 129 Phillip Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
THE «U BRITISH
inc tut •oiuiiam
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
1
A
Prices from
29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
Oil Subsidy ‘
|Fr«M« li. Owen]
A FTER more than a decade
in which oil-searchers in
and around Australia have
proved that they can carry on
-—as they should do —without
direct financial aid from the
Government, the oil-subsidy is
to be reintroduced, /
It may have been necessary,
in pre-World-War-ll days, as
an inducement to drilling which
—owing to the paucity of essen-
tial information —could be
described only as “wild-cat.”
Since that time, however,
responsible companies have
carried out so much ground-
work that public money could
be better diverted into other
channels.
la the pre-war days, the oil
funds were administered by an
Oil Advisory Committee. It is
to be hoped that the revived
subsidy of £500,000 will be
allotted under a similar control
and that the responsible com-
mittee will include members
with adequate experience in oil-
producing areas-. In any case,
the responsibility is too onerous
for an individual to handle, and
multiple-control would avoid
danger of dictatorship or per-
sonal preferences.
It may be recalled that it was
stated, at a shareholders’ meet-
ing of a company affected, that
the organisation had been
forced, in 1940 —by a threat to
withhold the £-for-£ subsidy—
to drill over 2000 ft. of volcanic
rock in a well being sunk for
oil. This drilling was carried
out against expert and experi-
enced technical advice on the
field.
The subsidy, naturally, will
appeal chiefly to small com-
panies who find it difficult to
meet the cost of employing
experts possessing the training
and experience required in the
oil game; the wisdom of
encouraging the survival of
such companies may be
questioned.
As every member of the
public—by virtue of the sub-
sidy—becomes, willy-nilly, a
shareholder in the company
subsidised, it should be
demanded that, at least, all
data produced in the applica-
tion for funds should be pub-
lished. When the aid sought is
granted, all drilling and other
information obtained sub-
sequently should also be gener-
ally available.
At present, the several
Government departments con-
cerned are reluctant to supply
such details without the consent
of the company concerned.
Canada's Oil Indmibiy
TN 1956 the Canadian
-*■ petroleum industry con-
tinued the rapid growth which
was begun by the Leduc
(Alberta) discovery of
February, 1947.
Prior to the drilling of the
Imperial Leduc No. I well, oil-
production in Canada was only
19,000 barrels a day from about
400 wells, and oil reserves had
just reached the 72-milhon-
barrels mark. At the end of
1956 there were 10,587 wells in
western Canada ; the year’s
average daily production
amounted to 469,959 barrels ;
and liquid-hydrocarbon reserves
had grown to 3129-million
barrels. The size of the industry
in 1956 could also be measured
by such statistics as annual
production (172,005,206
barrels), oil-pipeline mileage
(5807 miles), petroleum -
refinery capacity (700,050
barrels a day) ; and domestic
demand for all oils (719,697
barrels a day).
The increasingly large
supplies of western Canada
crude oil have enabled Canada
to improve its oil self-sufficiency
position during the past 10
years from less than 10 per
cent, to over 65 per cent., in
spite of a threefold
increase in domestic demand
for petroleum.
Alberta continues as the
major crude-oil producer. In
1956 Alberta’s output con-
stituted 83.7' per cent, of the
Canadian total, compared w th
87.3 p.c. and 91.3 p.c. in 1955
and 1954 respectively. Saskat-
chewan’s increase in produc-
tion gave this province a 12.2
p.c. share of total Canadian
production, compared with
8.8 p.c. and 5.6 p.c. in 1955 and
1954 respectively.
Value of production, at the
well-head, was $408,367,230 in
1956, compared with $305,640,-
057 in 1955 and $19,575,682 in
1947. Crude petroleum retamed
first-place in value among
■ minerals, its value being $llO
million higher than that of
copper, which was in second
place in Canada’s mineral
industry in 1956.
A number of important oil-
discoveries were made, but the
year’s increaseyn liquid-hydro-
carbon reserves of 372,685,000
barrels, after allowing for 1956
production, was due in con-
siderable part to further growth
of the Pembina field of Alberta
and the enlargement of new
fields in s.-e. Saskatchewan.
Drilling activity reached an all-
time high of 3359 holes in 1956,
70 p.c. of these being com-
pleted successfully as otiwells.
Market-expansion in 1956
consisted of a 13 p.c. growth
in domestic demand and a
threefold increase in crude-oil
exports.
Oilfield production-potential
during 1956 was greatly in
excess of actual production,
and bigger market-outlets for
Canadian crude-oil continued
to be an important objective
of the industry. Export markets
are being developed in the
States of Washington, Minne-
sota, Wisconsin and Michigan.
Montreal, with one-third of
Canada's refinery-capacity, has
not come within the orbit of
western Canada oil-supply,
although plans were completed
in 1956 for extension of* the
inter-provincial pipeline to
Toronto. Three-quarters of the
foreign crude-oil imports
delivered to Montreal and
Halifax in 1956 came from
Venezuela, and the remainder
from the Middle East, United
States and Trinidad.
Canada, with 3 p.c. of total
world production, was eighth-
largest oil-producer in the
world in 1956, following United
States, Venezuela, U.S.S.R.,
Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Irak
and Iran. Canada’s oil industry
recorded a 30 p.c. increase in
production in 1956. compared
with 14} p.c. for Latin
American countries, 6 p.c. for
Middle East countries and 5
p.c. for the United States.
There was a slight decrease
in geophysical activity in
western Canada during 1956.
In 1947 a total of 161 crew-
months accounted for all
seismic work done; subse-
quently, steady increase in
seismic work took place, and
by 1952 crew-months totalled
1923 ; since then there has
been some reduction in
activity, with the 1955 and
1956 totals being 1495 and
1397 crew-months respectively.
Gravity-work is carried out on.
a much smaller scale: 41 crew-
months were worked in 1947;
in 1955 and 1956 the totals
were 103 and 87. There is very
little, if any, magnetometer-
work being done now in
western Canada. Thus total
geophysical work, which
reached a peak in 1952, declined
rather sharply.
Geological survey-work was
actively continued during 1956.
Federal and provincial Govern-
ment survey-parties were in
the field in Alberta, British
Columbia and in the Terri-
tories. Most major oil-
companies with holdings in
these regions also had one or
more parties in the field.
The complex structural con-
ditions of the Foothills and
eastern margin of the Rocky
Mountains must, in the final
analysis, be worked-out by
geological methods. Geo-
physical techniques, which find
their most widespread employ-
ment on the plains, have limited
use in western Alberta and
north-eastern British Columbia
in areas of tight folding and
extensive faulting.
Approximately 32 surface
geological parties were in the
field in Alberta during the
summer, with 18 others in
British Columbia and eight in
the Territories.


“Ready? The first phrase of the problem is, ‘Brothers and sisters have I none..."


Divorce Notice
IN TflE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. —In Divorce.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction in
Matrimonial Causes.
TO WILLIAM WOODWARD late of 18
Phillip Street Balmain.—TAKE NOTICE
that EILEEN PHYLLIS WOODWARD
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3966 of 1956 (under Victorian law) on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Court King Street
Sydney by 6th November 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from R. O’CONNOR & 00.,
Solicitors, 401 Darling Street, Balmain,
or their City Agents, MESSRS. J. A.
MEAGHER & DE COEK, 107 Liverpool
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUG H A N,
Registrar.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“The Chalk Garden”
As far as could be gathered
from the rosy fog of the Mel-
bourne Comedy presentation,
this play by Enid Bagnold is
an attempt to illustrate Oscar
Wilde’s dictum that all men
kill the thing they love.
The display opens with Miss
Madrigal, .a grim - looking
spinster, applying for the job
of looking after a screaming
neurotic with homicidal
tendencies which are giving
her grandma, Mrs. St.
Maugham, as much concern
as she is capable of feeling for
any other creature besides Mrs.
St. Maugham. It turns out,
after she gets the job, that Miss
Madrigal has been tried for the
murder of a stepsister, found
guilty and sentenced to death,
a reprieve being the explana-
tion of her continued existence.
This doesn’t come out, how-
ever, until the very judge who
presided at the murder trial
turns up and recognises
her. Mrs. St. Maugham
promptly throws a fit and
wants to sack her. In actual
fact, however, Miss Madrigal
is the only wise person
in the play and the only
one who can identify
herself with the neurotic girl
and understand her problem.
Having been through the mill
herself, she can feel the wheels
grinding in the psyche of Miss
Laurel, She asks the judge to
define law and justice, and to
state which he stands for, and
the judge squirms. It has
never occurred to him to ask
himself such a question, and
here he is being asked it by a
woman who, if he had had his
way, would have swung from
the end of a rope 15 years ago
for a crime which, he admits,
he doesn’t know she had com-
mitted.
Thus Miss Madrigal calmly
gains power over the grand-
daughter’s psyche, which makes
Grandma’s alleged authority as
innocuous as her love for her
garden, which has reduced it
to as hopeless a wreck as her
relationship with her family.
Grandma’s idea, and the
judge’s, of social inter-
course is: You keep off
my pet corns and I’ll keep
off yours. Her grim experience
has taught Miss Madrigal the
contrary doctrine, and she
treads on their corns with
quiet determination. It all ends
with Miss Laurel being recon-
ciled to the mother whom she
feared she might kill, just as
Miss Madrigal allegedly killed
her stepsister.
As Miss Madrigal, Patricia
Kennedy held the part well,
despite the extraneous farce
going on around her. As
Laura, Jane Casson acted
the neurotic girl with a con-
centrated fury which contrasted
oddly with her grandma’s
amiable imbecility.
As the stage grandmother,
Miss Casson’s grandmother,
Dame Sybil Thorndike, gave a
magnificent demonstration of
the virility and concentration
that reposes in a leading actress
well into her second half-
century of mumming. As the
judge, her 85-year-old husband,
Sir Lewis Casson, was equally
impressive.
It would have been a benefit
if a more subdued light had
been thrown on the noisy
garden room of Mrs. St.
Maugham’s house in Sussex.
❖ <* ♦>
“The Big Knife”
Since most things that go on
in or come out of Hollywood
seem rather larger than life,
or melodramatic, it is not
surprising that even a fierce
attack on the film capital, such
as Clifford Odets’s “The Big
Knife” (current at the Inde-
pendent, North Sydney), does
not altogether avoid that
quality.
The central character of the
play is Charles Castle, whose
moral values and artistic
integrity have been gradually
eroded by living and working
in Hollywood, and who, in a
rather shaky triumph of matter
over mind, smothers his con-
science with the fleshly com-
forts and delights that stardom
makes possible. In this he is
aided and encouraged by his
producer and that gentleman’s
henchman,, by his business
manager, and by the inevitable
hangers-on. On the other hand,
his wife—they are on the verge
of separation—and an author
friend with no illusions about
Hollywood are fervently trying
to persuade him to relinquish
film-work and success and go
elsewhere in search of his old
and better standards.
The crisis crystallises in the
signing of a 12-year con-
tract with his producer.
He has practically decided
not to sign when the pro-
ducer and henchman black-
mail him with the memory of
a hit-and-run accident in which
he killed a child and for which
the blame and jail-sentence
were smartly transferred to his
publicity man. When, sub-
sequently, a witness to the
accident —a vapid little blonde
whose silence has been bought
with a minor film-contract —
threatens to talk and the pro-
ducer’s henchman begins
arranging for her murder, the
actor, like Macbeth, sees him-
self trapped in a progression of
crime and, unlike Macbeth,
revolts against it. He throws-
over his producer and contract
and is about to leave Holly-
wood with his wife when yet
another escapade catches up
with him, so that he finally
solves all his problems by
cutting his throat.
There is no doubting the
sincerity of Mr. Odets’s attack
on Hollywood in all this, but
he, too, is guilty of an artistic
lapse in throwing the blame for
the actor’s destruction too
heavily on Hollywood. The
tragedy which is what the
play purports to be would
have had greater human
validity if it had dwelt more on
self-destruction than on the
extraneous influences contribu-
ting to the film-star’s final
suicide.
Still, it is excellently pro-
duced by Nigel Lovell, who
misses nothing of its value, and
admirably acted by a very able
cast, in which Wayne Polzin,
John Gray, Ken Wayne, Louis
Wishart, Max Osbiston, Doris
Fitton, Diana Perryman,
Wendy Blacklock and Janette
Craig all distinguish themselves.
“Bonaventure”
If it is vaguely bewildering
to encounter in the intimacy of
the Sydenham Pocket Play-
house, Sydney, a whodunit, it
is as pleasantly enlightening to
study the machinery .of
Norman McVicker’s canny
production, through the
enthusiasic acting of the young
cast, exploiting Charlotte
Hastings’s mystery-thriller for
the utmost of its fresh
approach.
Although the play’s basic
situation is an old crime-and-
detection recipe rather well
contrived, it is in some aspects
of its development ingenious
and, even, forceful drama.
Almost all the inhabitants of
three surrounding villages have
been forced by floods to take
refuge in a convent. Among
them is a young artist who,
while there on a commission to
paint murals for the local
church, has been convicted of
the murder of her alcoholic
brother who has followed her
there.
The compassionate Sister
Bonaventure, acting on an
impulse, sets herself the task
of proving the girl innocent in
the time before she can be taken
to the gallows.
The play’s effect depends on
the portrayal of the role of
Sister Bonaventure to an extent
that would be embarrassing to
an actress able to offer it less
than Patti Assange ; her per-
formance was excellent. To-
gether .with Kathleen Mc-
Cormack, delightfully spon-
taneous as the simple-hearted
Sister Josephine, she gave a fine
exhibition of character subjec-
tivity.
Though one might have pre-
ferred Barbara Eather, as the
artist, to have relied less on the
weight of her voice in such a
small theatre, she handled a
difficult part bravely. Of the
others, Donald Smith’s Dr.
Jeffreys, if a little bland, was
convincing enough; Ellen
Bland’s stoic Mother Superior
a trifle harsh ; Michael Corrie’s
mentally-retarded Willy a clever
portrayal; and Graham Corry’s
Milling a fair character.
R. A.
+J* *1*
“Otello”
Verdi’s music-drama was
given a production of strength
and beauty by the Elizbethan
Opera Company under the
practised hand of Arnold
Matters, who kept the fires of


mm pp
iilllll
SHaG
[V ,i.-X'X<
I ?
pm
>.
. • ■
: i '•;'-./
SS'&S
m::
m
Cane-ite keeps costs down
in new gymnasium
In 1955, eight gymnasiums like this were
completed in Sydney schools. They are
very large —95 feet-by 40 feet —to allow
for most competitive games.
The large area of the roof (4,000 sq. ft.)
made it advisable, to choose a heat-insulating
material for the ceiling. Cane-ite was chosen,
both because it-is an excellent insulator, and
because it gives a handsome appearance at
a comparatively low cost. The resulting cool-
ness of the building during the summer
months has been greatly appreciated by
both teachers and pupils.
Three types of Cane-ite are available . . .
natural buff . . . primed (ready for painting)
and Ivory Cane-ite, which is excellent for
light reflection.
Available 6,7, 8,9, 10 and 12 feet long by
3 or 4 feet wide.
Manufactured by
The Colonial Sugar Refining
Co. Ltd.,
Building Materials Division
love, jealousy and vengeance
burning fiercely throughout.
His crowd-scene in the first act
was most animated and
well handled considering the
inadequacies of space; the
choruses were the best heard
in any opera in Sydney for
years; the settings by Louis
Kahan had taste and imagina-
tion, with richly colorful
costumes for the principals;
and the performance was
greatly enhanced by the high
standard of the orchestral
playing under Joseph Post.
In the whole range of opera
there is, orchestrally, no open-
ing so electrically charged with
violence and drama as this one,
with its crashing tutti that
accompanies the storm-swept
Moor to his landfall, and it
sets the mood perfectly for the
violence and drama that are to
follow. On its heels comes the
only light touch in the whole
work, the “Brindisi,” although
even this rousing drinking-song
of lago’s (capitally sung by
John Shaw) has the fore-
shadowing of evil in it.
Joan Hammond, mixing
serenity with an undercurrent
of bewilderment, sang magni-
ficently, her “Willow Song” a
gentle lamentation, and the
noble, “Ave Maria” which
followed it devotional and
pure.
Ronald Dowd, a splendidly
commanding figure and a fine
actor, showed only one his-
trionic fault as Othello a
tendency to thrash about too
much in Act 111 when he is
convinced of the perfidy of
Desdemona and Cassio. In
-his singing he has succeeded in
bleaching out of his tone the
nasal quality once so pro-
minent. Though lacking the
full power of a robust tenor,
he nevertheless produced suffi-
cient volume to lend weight
to his dramatic numbers, in
particular to the great duet,
“We Swear By Heaven and
Earth,” in which he and lago
take oath never to rest until
the guilty pair have been
punished. He and Miss
Hammond, too, combined well
in the beautiful love-duet which
closes the first act.
John Shaw cleverly drew
an lago compounded of
vanity, weakness, cynicism and
subtlety. The virility of his
catlike movements was
matched by that of his resonant
baritone, which he used with
excellent judgment in the
superb and difficult “Credo,”
that free adaptation of lago’s
last speech with Cassio in Act
II of the play in which he
boasts of the evil creed by
which he lives.
Dowd and Miss Hammond
enacted the death-scene with
moving conviction, a fitting end
to the good work that had gone
before. The overall effect of
this opera is that it is not just
one “based” on Shakspeare—
it is Shakspeare. The 74-year-
old Verdi, getting to work again
after the 16-year silence follow-
ing his “Aida,” was fortunate
that he had the services of one
of the greatest of all librettists.
And the audience, leaving after
this most satisfying presenta-
tion, must have thought so, too.
❖ ❖ +t+
“The Tales of Hoffmann”
The fantasy which is the
essence of Offenbach’s delight-
ful comic-opera was fairly
emphasised in the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust’s Sydney produc-
tion by Stefan Haag; in
particular the Act I episode of
the doll-automaton was well-
contrived, a revolving stage
being effectively used to switch
quickly from the workroom
scene of the doll’s inventor
Spalanzini to his guest-filled
reception-room.
Anne Fraser’s settings were
artistically satisfying and effec-
tive. In the Luther’s Tavern
scene of Prologue and Epilogue
the fantastic was cleverly
suggested by a slowly rising
painted scene which gave the
effect of a building being hauled
skywards until it revealed the
tavern-cellar with Hoffmann
and his fellow-revellers.
Chinese soprano Florence
Pong, though not always land-
ing flush in the centre of her
higher coloratura, nevertheless
sang her “Doll” song with
freshness and spirit. A dainty
Olympia, she managed the
“running-down” of the doll
convincingly.
The Giulietta of the Venetian
episode was Joyce Simmons.
Her duet with the Nicklauss of
the piece, Wilma Whitney, was
an attractive blending of tone
and lent to the famous
“Barcarolle” a languorous
quality in keeping with the
Venetian Canat-side scene and
the sensuousness of the action.
It is an accepted convention
of opera that consumptive
heroines may sing as strongly
to within a minute of their
death as may the hero with
several inches of steel buried
in his vitals, so it wasn’t sur-
prising that Madge Stephens
gave to the Antonia of Hoff-
mann’s final love-affair (before
he renounces women for ever
in favor of his art) no little
virility, though she did succeed
in fading her soprano away
artistically just before she fell
victim to the deviltries of Dr.
Miracle.
Traditionally, the villain of
the show, the nark who puts
a sprag into each of Hoffmann’s
three wheels of romance, is
sung by the same baritone.
Alan Light, who has a flair for
injecting dark menace into his
voice, sang the roles of Cop-
pelius, Dappertutto and Dr.
Miracle, his most impressive
vocal effort being his “invoca-
tion” to the diamond with
which he buys the soul of the
good-time girl Giulietta.
Hoffmann was sung by
Victor Franklin, who made an
impressive debut in a major
role to Sydney audiences. His
lyric tenor is of excellent
quality, easily produced, with
a nice ring to it in the heights.
His “Legend of Kleinzach”
caught the rollicking spirit,
while “ ’Tis She,” sung as he
beholds the mechanical doll
through the magic lenses,
given a fair measure of lover’s
ardor.
John Young moved easily
from the frothy hilarities of
the role of Spalanzini to the
overwrought father of Antonia
of Act III; Raymond Mac-
donald etched-in a neat piece of
characterisation as the deaf
servant Franz.
The Sy d ney Symphony
Orchestra under Eric Clapham
gave a nice lilt and lift to the
livelier parts of the score,
while the woodwinds did
notable work in the gentler
sequences.
Artbursts
Contemporary Group
By far the most solid painting
in the Contemporary Group
exhibition at Sydney Macquarie
Galleries is a small landscape
by Lloyd Rees a bending
road, a bending fence, a storm-
bent an appropriately
bent pedestrian and it is
particularly interesting as
possibly marking a new
development in Rees’s style,
being richer and smoother than


Missing Friend
F. J. LEGG
Write Solicitors, Africa,
or Peter, Sheffield, New Zealand.
URGENT.
the small landscapes he was
showing a few years ago and
much more substantial than the
strange white paintings he
more recently brought back
from abroad.
Jean Appleton’s two still-lifes
have a vibrant quality and
warmth of color, though the
total effect is rather thin: the
more so when one sees this
artist getting her effects from
pink lozenges of paint while
Grace Cossington Smith, as
she has been doing for years,
continues to get much the same
sort of effect from gold and
yellow lozenges. A mannerism
can be at once a distinction and
a trap.
Alison Rehfisch has richer
color and a more imaginative
composition than usual in her
“Window in the Sky” ; George
Duncan combines his two styles
—one severe and one lavish —
to get a strong but very sombre
result in “Old Cottages,
Berrima” ; J. Carington Smith
is dimly pleasing in grey ;
“But they don t mean a thing to me, Maggie — it's all part of me job!”
Margo Lewers is reasonably
vivid and compact in abstracts
and semi-abstracts ; and Roland
Wakelin in “Beaumaris
Pastoral” repeats, though
perhaps with a fresher light,
what he has often said before,
*** ♦> +>
-. , Havekes
Gerard Havekes
Gerard Havekes, a Dutch
painter showing at David
Jones’, Sydney, is just about the
opposite in every respect from
the Dutch painter this corn-
mentator likes best—Vermeer,
Vermeer’s paintings are small,
Those of Havekes are large.
Vermeer is blue; Havekes is
black. Vermeer is concentrated ;
Havekes diffuse. Vermeer is
quiet; Havekes is loud. Ver-
meer is luminous ; Havekes
opaque. Vermeer is solid ;
Havekes is loose.
The comparison is perhaps
unfair. But it does suggest
itself and it does make the
point that Havekes, like so
many of the wilder con-
temporaries, is painting too
facilely, trying to make a
splash by mere size.
There is warmth of color
in some of his landscapes and
his Rouault-like figure-studies,
imprisoned in heavy black bars,
have a certain force.
❖ ❖ ♦>
There is something vaguely
irritating about the abstractions
of Ronald Millar which sing in
shrill colors from the walls of
the V.A.S.’s gallery in Mel-
bourne. It is not so much the
strange shapes—some of them
dimly suggestive of natural
objects like men and houses —
as the juxtaposition of daubs
of crude color bearing no tonal
relation to one another, but
merely expressing some whim
of the painter. It is this dis-
harmony, a disharmony which
we never see in Nature, which
probably gives the observer’s
eye the willies. Max Meldrum
used to say that all colors
harmonise when they are in
the same tonality, and Mr.
Millar might find this simple
truth worth trying next time
he sets out to paint an abstrac-
tion.
Films
“Man on Fire”
Bing Crosby, taking his
second plunge into drama,
draws quite a convincing pic-
ture of bitterness and frustra-
tion in this story of a father
bull-headedly determined to
fight every inch of the legal
way against his ex-wife’s moves
(with the aid of her lawyer-
husband) to gain custody of
their 11-year-old boy. The
strong bond that has grown
between father and son; the
mother’s natural rights to some
of the boy’s affection these
and other issues are analysed
very lucidly and concisely in
one of the screen’s most im-
pressive judge -in - chambers
scenes.
Other satisfying aspects of
the film are the naturalness of
the domestic scenes, and the
easy relationship drawn
between the father and his son,
played with no hint of precious-
ness by Malcolm Broderick ;
the absence of maudlin senti-
ment ; the keeping of the con-
tention at an enlightened level,
with admirable restraint shown
by the parties to it; and
dialogue which is always right
to the point.
Only the ending—in which
Crosby suddenly sees the
futility of* continued bitterness
(an insight hastened by the
adoring look bent on him by
an attractive young lady-lawyer)
and yields up his son to the
mother—has the air of being
forced. Sound performances
come from Mary Fickett and
Richard Eastham, as the ex-
wife and her new husband
respectively. At Sydney
Liberty.
*X* ❖
“Man Afraid”
A muscular young parson,
surprising a burglar in his
young son’s bedroom, heaves
a blunt instrument at him with
such force and accuracy that
he kills him. He is exonerated
by the Law, but the burglar’s
derelict father starts a menacing
campaign against the family
which the cops stubbornly
refuse to believe. The terrorism
k of the milk-and-water variety
and it is spun-out to inordinate
length. In the end the man-of-
the-cloth nobly saves the
menacer from a watery grave
in a good-for-evil act, and
thereafter all is sweetness and
light. George Nader is the
cleric with the strong biceps
and Tim Hovey the small boy.
At Sydney Lyceum.
“Monte Carlo”
This has Marlene Dietrich,
who, when she isn't being
exaggeratedly slinky as a
sophisticated habituee of the
gilded gambling joints of the
Riviera, is being exaggeratedly
coy and simpering as the quarry
of a bold fortune-hunter. The
basic set-up concerns two near-
broke but affluent-looking
gamblers, who, each thinking
the other wealthy, make the
matrimonial pitch; when
financial disillusionment comes
they find that true Luv is the
supreme compensation. The
hero is Vittorio de Sica, whose
main cinematic asset is a hand-
some face. At Hoyt’s Theatres.


That I Perplexing Problem!
EQ*
The Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTD.
lataiporaUd la Vittorio ia 1878
TR54.34
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
—how will my Estate he administered?
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. Executor of
your Will, you obtain the benefit of an impartial Executor with over
three-quarters of a century’s specialised experience in the Administration
of Estates, and the assurance that the interests of your legatees will be
safeguarded until the Trusts are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such permanence, security or experience.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
A Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLI6H STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, (972,912.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones;
J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; W. E. M.
Campbell; T. L. Webb.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Herfer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
VJGITH advances strictly limited by
1 ’ " central-bank policy, and interest
allowed on statutory deposits with the
central bank a token figure, the Commer-
cial Banking Co. of Sydney can thank its
young subsidiary, the C.B.C. Savings
Bank, for the small improvement in
earnings achieved last term.
Mainly as a result of the highly-
successful wool-selling season and cur-
tailment of imports, over £2OO million was
added to Australia’s overseas reserves
during the last financial year, the conse-
quent increase in deposits held by the
trading-banks adding considerably to their
lending-capacity. However, as,a check to
internal inflationary tendencies, the
central bank immobilised an additional
£BO million of trading-bank funds, lifting
the amount held in special accounts to a
little over £340 million. As a result,
while deposits accumulated over the first
three-quarters of the year, there was a
steady fall in advances, and although
there was a reversal of this trend towards
the end of the year (continuing into the
current term), bank-credit, genefally,
remained particularly tight.
Following this general pattern the
accounts of the C.B.C. for the year to
June 30 last show a £10,787,959 increase
in deposits, advances, etc. (down
£3,607,774), slipping from 55.4 p.c. to
50.5 p.c. of all liabilities to the public. Of
the funds made available by these move-
ments the central bank called up
£8,600,000, taking the special account to
£38,600,000, which, when added to the
£70,674,493 (up £7,900,384) of liquids,
gave a total equal to 50.2 p.c. of deposits,
liquids alone equalling 35.9 p.c.:
Parent Only.
1955. 1956. 1957 .
Paid capital £6,000,000 £6,000,000 £6,000,000
Reserves .. 5,176,827 6,735,091 6,755,274
Owing to sub-
sidiary .. 1,000,000 3,238,604
Notes .. 13,491 13,490 13,350
Deposits* .. 199,609,165 188,723,837 199,511,796
Due other
banks .. 1,149,964 745,517 1,158,266
Final div. 270,000 270,000 27 0,000
, £212,219,447 £203,487,935 £216,947,290
Liquids .. 70,644,110 62,774,109 70,674,493
Special a/c 34,400,000 30,000,000 38,600,000
Advances .. 102,925,556 104,622,764 101,014,990
Premises, etc. 1,828,298 2,226,475 3,140,849
Shares sub-
sidiary .. 1,000,000 1,002,000
Other assets 2,421,483 2,864,587 2,514,958
£212,219,447 £203,487,935 £216,947,290
* Includes provision for contingencies.
Deposits, etc., made with the parent by the
Savings Bank (with £2OOO owing to the
newly - formed Commercial Nominees
Pty.) increased by £2,238,604, practically
all of the subsidiary bank’s £17,925,798
of assets (except £146,111 of advances)
being in highly liquid form.
Most of the C.B.C.’s branches (there
are something like 400 of them) are in
New South Wales, Victoria and Queens-
land, the bank handling approximately 14
p.c. of all trading-bank business in Aus-
tralia. Paid capital reached £6,000,000 in
1954 following a one-for-four par issue
(the co.’s £25 shares being paid to £1.2 10s.,
with the uncalled capital regarded as an
ultimate reserve). The div.-rate, steady
at 8 p.c. for the six years to 1954, was
lifted to 81 p.c. in 1955 and 9 p.c. in the
following year.
There was a slip of £13,081 (to
£635,183) in the earnings of the parent co.,
last term, but the Savings Bank, in its
first llj months of business, turned in a
profit of £31,657, to put the combined
figure (£666,840) £18,576 in front of the
previous term’s showing:
Written
June, Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ ' £
1951.. 451,699 8 p.c. = 379,121 25,000 4,808,660
1952.. 443,843 8 „ „ 379,121 25,000 4,848,382
1953.. 4 70,625 8 „ „ 379,121 25,000 4,914,886
Surplus sale shares, £43,308 .. 4,958,189
1954.. 528,777 8 p.c. = 379,121 25,000 5,082,845
1955.. 627,296 8J „ „ 508,314 25,000 5,176,827
Inner reserves revealed, £1,500,000 .. 6,676,827
1956.. 648,264 9 p.c. = 540,000 50,000 6,735,091
Consolidated Accounts. -
1957.. 666,840 9 p.c. = 540,000 75,000 6,786,931
The consolidated profit, calculated after
unstated provision for taxation, was
11.1 p.c. on paid capital, compared with
10.8, 10.4, 11.1 and 9.9 p.c. in the four
preceding years. On average shareholders’
funds the return was a moderate 5.2 p.c.
The unchanged 9 p.c. div. took £540,000
and, after writing-off £75,000 (up £25,000)
from bank premises, £51,840 was added
to the already sizeable reserves.
Legislation to come in the present
session of Federal Parliament is expected
to give the trading-banks a little more free-
dom of action, but full details of the pro-
posed changes have not as yet been made
public. The trading - banks, however,
appear pleased after a preliminary study
of the proposed changes.
At £2l 12s. the £l2 lOs.-paid shares
would return 5.2 p.c. from a 9 p.c. dis-
tribution. Net tangible cover (consoli-
dated accounts) is £26 12s. 9d.
Millaquin Sugar Co.
TyrORE-OR-LESS in the same breath
■*■*-*- in which the co. told of a record-
breaking season, Millaquin. Sugar had to
report that, because of drought conditions
in southern Queensland, the 1957 cane-
crop is expected to run to little more
than half the 1956 harvest.
Furthermore, the world open-market-
price for sugar is now practically back to
where it was a year ago, before the Suez
crisis, so no extra gleanings can be looked
for there.
In its present mood, however, the share-
market sees no cause to discount the 10s.
ords. below recent quotations on ’Change.
At 355. they return an even 5 p.c. on the
basis of a p.c. div.
In addition to its two crushing-mills
and refinery, Millaquin draws an income
from a sizeable holding of shares and
public securities (entered at June 30 last
at cost at £545,513), and its subsidiary,
Bundaberg Distilling Co. This co.
managed to pay a 10 p.c. div. again last
year, though, because of the high duty on
the spirits, sales of rum remain low.
Given excellent growing weather during
the season and practically ideal condi-
tions while the cutters were at work, the
districts assigned to the co.’s mills at
Millaquin and Qunaba shipped a record
525,884 tons of cane (429,369 tons in


1955), which yielded 69,280 tons (54,763
tons) of raw sugar.
Production of refined sugar and syrup
isn’t disclosed, but sales were slightly
better than in the preceding 12 months.
The co. handles a small portion of the
Queensland crop not refined by C.S.R.
As from May, 1956, the Australian
wholesale price of refined sugar was
increased, and the season’s export of
raws (mainly within the framework of the
British Commonwealth sugar pact) fetched
more, too. About half of Australia’s
raw-sugar exports receive guaranteed
prices, which are negotiated annually
under the British scheme. The balance
is- sold in the free market, subject to
imperial preferences.
Reflecting the bigger crushing and
better prices obtained, net profit was
written £23,104 stronger at £184,916:
, To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1948.. 84,844 11 p.c. = 65,000 '29,444 425,500
1949.. 104,638 13 „ „ 65,000 39,638 465,138
1950.. 87,918 13 „ „ 65,000 22,918 488,057
1951.. 88,557 13 „ „ 65,000 23,557 511,614
From inner reserves, £20,000 .. 531,614
1952.. 85,465 13 p.c. = 65,000 20,465 552,079
1953.. 97,799 15 „ ~ 75,000 22,799 574,878
1954.. 146,094 Hi „ „ 87,500 58,594 633,472
1955.. 139,055 17i „ „ 87,500 61,555 685,027
Assets revalued, £250,000 .. .. 935,027
Reserve capitalised, £250,000.. .. 685,027
1956.. 161,812 15 p.c. = 112,500 49,312 734,339
From inner reserves, £150,000 . . 884,339
1957.. 184,916 17Jp.c.= 131,250 53,666 938,005
That was after providing £98,898 (down
£2321) for depreciation and whatever was
considered necessary for taxation and
contingencies, which may or may not
become a real charge on the business.
At the same time provisions totalling
£150,000 previously set aside (principally
in connection with the co.’s rebuilding
and reconditioning programme) and con-
sidered excessive or no longer required,
were transferred to reserves. The 2% p.c.
added to the div. (1 1% p.c.) was in the
bonus (5 p.c.) which, as a matter of
prudence in the present circumstances,
shouldn’t be regarded as permanent.
Allowing for the £150,000 of provi-
sions added to reserves, creditors, With
which they are entered in the balance-
sheet, appear to have increased by
£185,361. Added to the £53,666 of profit
not divided among shareholders, they
provided most of the finance needed to
complete additions to the mills and
refinery (up £77,498 net), carry an extra
£44,463 stock and £22,281 book-debts and
turn the bank overdraft into a cash surplus
of £75,613:
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £500,060 £750,000 £7s„,udo
Reserves .. - .. 685,027 734,340 . 938,006
Overdraft .. .. ' 33,512
Creditors, etc.* .. 1,039.856 1,009.742 1,045,103
Final divs 62,500 75,000 93,750
£2,287,383 £2,602,594 £2,826,859
Freehold, mills,
refinery, etc. .. 1,253,102 1,571,241 1,648,739
Investments .... 598,671 606,055 ' 610,465
Stocks .. .. 360,805 386,552 431,015
Debtors .. .. 65,862 38,746 61,027
Cash .. .. 8,943 75,613
£2,287,383 £2,602,594 £2,826,859
* Including taxation and contingencies.
Next season (1958) it is expected that the
bulk-sugar terminal at Bundaberg’s new
deep-water port will be ready for use. One
of a series being constructed along
Queensland’s coast, the new terminal
is expected to reduce substantially hand-
ling costs. At Mackay, where the first of
the terminals is already in operation, there
has been a startling improvement in the
rate of loading of sugar-cargoes.
Gerrard Company of A/asia, Ltd.
VVfELL-DEVELOPED .earning - power
** (further confirmed by the latest
accounts) and vigorous expansion, which
takes the form of branching-out into new
activities as well as consolidating old ones,
have increased investment interest in this
Melbourne-based engineer.
A year ago its 10s. ordinary shares
were changing hands at around 14s.
Lately, following the announcement of a
new share-issue, the price of the scrip has
approached nearer 225.
Shareholders who were on the register
on September 6 are being offered 500,000
ords., at par* on a one-for-two basis.
Half the new money is wanted by the
close of applications on September 30,
and the remainder by July 1 next year.
The scrip will receive a quarter of the
next interim div. and half the final.
After that old and new shares will rank
alike.
The issue is Gerrard’s third within the
last two years. In 1955 the co. offered
shareholders 100,000 ords. at par, one for
three. Then in January this year, to
acquire all of the issued capital of Bennett
Chain Co. Pty., old-established Brisbane
chainmakers, Gerrard issued to nominees
of Melbourne sharebrokers lan Potter
and Co. 200,000 ords. at a premium of
ss. 3d. a share.
When the present issue is fully paid-up
Gerrard’s ordinary capital will be
£750,000. There is, in addition, £120,000
of 5 p.c. cumulative preference shares.
Part of the £250,000 currently sought
has been earmarked for the purchase of
E. Fielding Pty., a spring-manufacturing
business in North Fitzroy (Melbourne).
Funds are also needed for expanding
the co.’s other operations. Gerrard has a
strong hold on the manufacture of
tensional - strapping machines and
materials, and it hasn’t stopped there. Sub-
sidiary cos. in Australia and New Zealand
also turn-out machinery, tools and wire
and metal products, and the new acquisi-
tions indicate that a continued widening of
interests can be expected whenever the
board spies the opportunity.
The co. has been listed on Melbourne
’Change only since 1951. For those not
acquainted with it the following table is
an admirable introduction:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
t Dividends To Be- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. { Ord. — N serves. serves.*
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
Sale assets, £4699 .. .. .. 26,672
1953.. 60,505 6000 7 p.c. =21,000 33,505 60,177
Sale assets, £675 .. .. .. 60,852
1954.. 81,734 6000 8 p.c. =24,000 51,734 112,586
Revaluation assets, £18,245 .. .. 130,831
.Exchange adjustment, £8400.. .. 139,231
Less increase in intangibles, £6000.. 133,231
1955- 91,890 6000 10 p.c. =30,000 55,890 189,121
Exchange adjustment, £2400 .. 191,521
Share-issue expenses, £966 .. .. 190,555
1956.-102,100 6000 10 p.c. =35,833 60,267 250,822
Exchange adjustment, £4BOO .. 255,622
Share-issue expenses,' £3966 .. 251,656
Share-premiums, £52,500 .. .. 304,156
Less increase in intangibles, £38,368 265,788
Unexplained reduction, £4OOO .. 261,788
1957.. 6000 10 p.c. =50,000 74,743 336,531
* After deducting intangibles, £221,478 at 30/6/’S7.
Last term’s £130,743, claimed after pro-
viding an extra £4067 depreciation
(£34,003) and £25,322 co.-tax (£98,341),
covered the pref. div. and was 24.9 p.c.
on the ords. as against 26.8 p.c., 28.6 p.c.,
25.2 p.c. and 18.1 p.c. back to 1953.
Again, with the needs of the business fore-
most in mind, the co. decided to leave the
ord. div. at 10 p.c.
A comparison of balance-sheet figures
suggests the new capital will find ready
employment:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
*Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Ord 300,000 - 400,000 500,000
Reserves .. .. 189,121 250,822 336,531
Mortgage .. .69,424 74,164 73,200
Overdraft .. .. 21,067 111,792 169,659
Creditors and tax-
provision .. 223,129 209,236 243,095
Final div. .. 18,000 20,000 25,000
£940,741 £1,180,014 £1,467,485
Freeholds .. .. 203,979 282,691 385,757
Plant . . . . 320,733 359,490 478,816
Unlisted shares .. 7,125 9,625 5,708
Stock . . .. 262,070 386,128 388,380
Debtors .'. .. 146,045 147,999 208,726
Cash, bonds, etc... 789 81 98
£940,741 £1,180,014 £1,467,485
Last term’s additions (freeholds, up
£103,066, plant, up £119,326, and debtors,
up £60,727) represented mainly the
Bennett Chain acquisition.
At 225. for the f.-p. shares the rights
to the new issue should be worth around
Bs.
On an ex-rights footing at 18s. the old
shares would return 5.5 p.c. while the
div. is at 10 p.c., or a shade under 7 p.c.
on a 12j p.c. basis.
Dominion Breweries, Ltd.
T>ECAUSE the New Zealand Treasury
(which has its eye fixed on the
priorities of national development) still
has the final-say in these matters, plans
by Dominion Breweries, Ltd., to raise
additional capital in the near future
remain, for the present, on a rather tenta-
tive footing.
A year ago the co. sought permission to
approach shareholders for £200,000 of
new ordinary capital at a premium of
100 p.c. It got approval for an
issue of 80,000 shares at 60s. each.
Not much encouragement there for the
average investor, but the scrip has been
heavily backed notwithstanding. Current
price for the £1 ords. is 110 s., and the
return, on a 10 p.c. div. basis, only 1.6
p.c. (All figures are in New Zealand
currency.)
A couple of terms ago, following the
scattering in 1952 of £200,000 of bonus-
scrip, the co. made a second gift of
400,000 £1 ords. At the same time it let
it be known that the assets of the business
were still worth about £BOO,OOO more
than they were shown in the books.
Main stimulus, however, to the share-
market’s present interest has been the
technical achievements of the co.’s
research department, and the attention
which they have attracted among brewery
concerns abroad.
One development, news of which was
given last year, was the discovery of a
brewing-technique which gives a beer of
much greater shelf-life and stability. The
other, a complementary process
announced recently, is a new method of
brewing by continuous fermentation.
Patent-rights to both processes have


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
C.l. Australian and Overseas Patents
and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Complete Security!
5%%
GOVERNMENT-GUARANTEED
FOR 6 YEARS OR MORE!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
LOAN
NOW OPEN!
COMPLETE SECURITY
The N.S.W. Government unconditionally guarantees
payment of half-yearly interest, and full repayment of
principal after 6, 10 or 20 years.
TRUSTEE INVESTMENT
The Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.,
Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
HALF-YEARLY INTEREST
may be credited direct to your barfk account.
NO EXCHANGE
Loan investments, interest and repayment at maturity are
free of exchange in terms of the Prospectus.
INSTALMENTS ACCEPTED
If you do not wish to make a cash investment you may pay
10% on application and the balance by 31st December, 1957.
APPLY TODAY at any branch of —
© Commonwealth Trading Bank;
O Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
9 Bank of New South Wales;
© The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited;
Through a Stockbroker;
Or at the Sydney Water Board offices.
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
MW 116-57
been secured or applied for in
all the main beer-producing
countries, and agreements com-
pleted with two overseas
brewers for the use of the
discoveries on a royalty basis.
Rights for Canada and the
United States have been sold
to Canadian Breweries, Ltd.,
and for the Philippines, Hong
Kong, Spain and Morocco to a
Manila concern.
Negotiations with brewing
interests in other countries are
proceeding.
Cost of adapting existing
plant to the new processes
evidently isn’t very great; the
stabilised-wort method has
already been in use in D.B.’s
own brewery at Otahuhu for
some time.
Where the attitude of the
Capital Issues Committee has
upset plans has been by putting
tight limits on projected new
hotel-construction and the
extension of existing properties.
Like its Australian counter-
parts, the co. depends to a
large degree on the “tied-house”
to maintain its share of the
trade. Just what that amounts
to at present is not divulged,
hut the progress of beer-con-
sumption in the Dominion over
the last decade can be seen
here:
New Zealand Beer Production.
Gallons. Gallons.
1947 .. 29,230,000 1 1952 .. 36,778,000
1948 .. 30,731,000 | 1953 .. 37,375,000
1949 .. 31,816,000 1954 .. 40,888,000
1950 .. 33,944,000 | 1955 .. 43,485,000
1951 .. 34,928,000 | 1956 .. 45,006,000
Source: Customs Department, New
Zealand.
Together with what fresh
capital has been put on the
register since the war, pretty
effective use has been made of
held-back earnings and help
from outside (the bank, etc.):
f Dividends Re-
Mch., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1952.. 109.304 13 13= 75,331 418,581
Profit sale fixed assets, £9527'428,108
From provisions, £95,310 .. 523,418
W/off investments, £26,435. 496,983
1953.. 13 13= 91,000 585,189
Profit sale fixed assets, £4740 589,929
Assets written up, £ 16,969... 606,898
1954.. 484 13 13= 91,000 713,382
Profit sale fixed assets, £1496 714,878
1955.. 408 13 13= 91,000 831,286
Profit sale fixed assets, £3303 834,589
From contingencies, £87.330 921,919
Reserves capitalised, £400,000 521,919
1956.. 202 10 10=110,000 630,121
Share premiums, £160,000.. 790,121
Profit sale assets, £16,478 . . 806,599
From contingencies, £34,693 841,292
1957.. 726 10 10=110,722 950,296
* All figures in New Zealand currency.
Last term, after setting aside
£147,017 for depreciation and
£278,252 for income-tax and
social-security charges, net
profit was written £1524 ahead
at £219,726. That figure leaves
out a payment of £74,982
representing part of the con-
sideration paid by Canadian
Breweries for the Canadian and
American rights mentioned
earlier, and other items inter-
lined in the profit-and-loss
table.
On the average amount of
capital (pref. and ord.) in use,
the £219,726 represented 19.8
p.c., the same as the previous
year.
In addition to undistributed
profit and the share and
premium money gathered in
over the final quarter of the
term, the co. raised a further
£34,088 on mortgage, went to
its bankers for £41,035 and
owed creditors, etc., an extra
£62,282:
Paid capital— 1950. 1957 .
Pref. .. ' £40,000 £40,000
Old 1,060,000 1,140,000
Reserves .. 630,122 950,298
Mortgage .. 526,994 561.082
Overdraft .. 139,035 180,070
Creditors, etc... 393,446 455,728
Tax provision . . 326,468 286,008
Final divs. .. 55,000 55,722
£3,171,065 £3,668,908
Land, buildings,
plant, etc. .. 2,111,833 2,388,351
Investments . . 92,015 135,984
Shares, subsid... 25,015 25,015
Stock .. 471,847 536,439
Debtors .. .. 432,745 467,659
Cash ~. 37,610 115,460
£3,171,065 £3,668,908
All figures in Zealand currency.
The new money went mainly
into additions to freehold land
and building (up £227,139)
and plant (up £36,557). When
the year ended there was
another £20.687 (up £7022) of
work in various stages of com-
pletion, and commitments
existed for further expendi-
ture of £65,000. Cash on
hand (£115,460) was £77,850
stronger, and there was an
extra £64,592 of stocks and
£34,914 book-debts. Out-
siders’ interest in the business
isn’t unduly large. For every
£ of shareholders’ funds at
March 31 borrowed money
amounted to 11s. 3d.
The Hub, Ltd.
T OOKING the position over.
The Hub’s board decided to
recommend acceptance of an
offer from Buckingham’s, Ltd.,
for the whole of the co.’s sub-
scribed capital.
The proposal put to share-
holders is that Buckingham’s
should allot two-and-a-haif
f.-p. ss. ordinary shares and
pay ninepence cash in return for
each of the 206,668 f.-p. £1
shares held. Terms of acquisi-
tion for the 1000 10s.-paid
shares (all held by one
individual) will be settled later.
At the governing market-
price of 7s. 3d. for Bucking-
ham’s own scrip the offer is
equal to 18s. lOd. for shares
which earlier in August were
bringing only 1 Is. 6d. each.
Over the last two terms The
Hub, which leases a four-story
building at 393-397 Pitt Street,


Investors'
Opportunity
s
(NEWCASTLE) LIMITED
now accepting fixed loans at the following rates of interest:
3 YEARS 12% P.A
2 YEARS 11% P.A.
1 YEAR 10% P.A.
SHORT CALL LOANS: 7%% P.A.
Up to £5OO On Call-£5OO-£l,OOO 21 days' call
(in excess by arrangement)
Interest paid free of exchange quarterly
CONVERSION OF SHORT CALL LOANS
If desired, after six months without call, the sum loaned may be
converted for a further six months fixed, making twelve months
in all at nine per cent. p.a.
Priority is given to depositors over shareholders .
NEWCASTLE;
SYDNEY;
BRISBANE:
BANKERS:
AUDITORS:
SOLICITORS:
OFFICES FOR ENQUIRIES
H. & S. Credits (Newcastle) Ltd., Civic Square. B 4202
R. M. Griffiths (Broker for the purpose of the loan)
C/- Incorporated Finance & Investment Pty. Ltd.
468 Hunter Street, Newcastle. B 3075
H. & S. Credits Pty. Ltd.
163 Clarence Street. BX I 170, BX 1603
or Roy F. Turner, K. H. Wilson & Co. (Solicitors)
350 George Street. BL 2766, BL 3292
A. R. Shaw (Solicitor), 99 Pitt Street. BL 3081
H. & S. Credits Pty. Ltd.
95 Bridge St., The Valley, Brisbane. Enquiries: Phone L 1339
The Commercial Bank of Australia Ltd.
Civic Branch, Newcastle
Gibson & Davies, 26 O'Connell St., Sydney
Roy F. Turner, K. H. \A7ilson & Co., 350 George St., Sydney
MAIL THIS COUPON
for further details, to
H. & S. Credits Pty. Ltd.,
163 Clarence St., Sydney.
To: H. & S. Credits Pty. Ltd., Sydney.
Please send me further details of your 12%
Loan. This request places me under no obliga-
tion whatsoever,
NAME
ADDRESS......
i
B. 11/9/’ST
Sydney, has had increasing
difficulty in holding-up its sales,
partly explainable by a discern-
ible drift of custom from its
part of town (neighboring
Horderns’ and Foy’s have had
the samejkind of trouble), and
also by the fact that the co.
hasn’t tried to compete with
other traders in offering to do
business “on tick.” Apart from
lay-by sales, the enterprise has
. always been conducted on a
cash basis, and the board said
last year that it had been reluc-
tant to do otherwise.
By making it part of a larger
organisation v Buckingham’s
evidently thinks that the store
can be put back on to a sounder
profit-earning basis.
Last year, after making an
unspecified provision for co.-
tax, and writing-down fixed
assets £ll5O (in 1956, £1212)
and leasehold improvements
£ll4B (unchanged), net earn-
ings (£7652, down £13,030)
amounted to only 3.2 p.c. oh
present capital, and the co.
didn’t get beyond paying an
interim div. of 3 p.c.:
„ t Re-
Feb., Profit. —Dividends serves.
£ £ £
1952. . 17.2G3 7 p.c. = 14,467 77,310
To staff fund, £3984 .. 73,326
1953.. 28.011 8 p.c. = 16,534 84,803
1954.. 28.133 8 ~.,,16,534 96,402
From doubtful debts*, £2500 98,902
1955.. 25,477 8 p.c. = 16,574 107,805
1956. .2Q,682 8 „ ~ 16,574 109,691
1957.. 7,652 3 „ „ 6,215 111,128
* Subject to goodwill, £122,500 at
7/2/’57.
Declaration of Buckingham’s
final div. for the term recently
ended is still waited for, but a
reduction in the interim pay-
ment from 6} p.c. to 5 p.c.
suggests that the co. has decided
to keep the distribution for
the full year to 10 p.c. (11| p.c.
in 1955-56). On that basis, then,
The Hub would need to show
a profit of at least £13,842 to
be self-supporting in the matter
of dividends. That makes no
allowance for interest on the
cash-payment involved (£7825),
or for appropriations to reserves
for further development.
Goodwill is in the books at
£122,500 (£14,372 higher than
reserves). It is exceeded on the
assets side of the balance-sheet
only by stock, in at the lower
cost or market-value at
£126,978 (down £16,866):
1956. 1957.
Paid capital ... £207,168 £207,168
Reserves .. 110,802 111,128
Creditors, etc. .. 77,183 41,816
Final div. 8,287
£403,440 £360,112
Leasehold .. 6,980 5,832
Plant, etc. .. 22,991 21,903
Shares .. .. 6,231 9,029
Stock, etc. ... 145,475 128,724
Debtors ... .. 18,681 17,969
Cash ... 80,582 54,155
Intangibles .. 122,500 122,500
£403,440 £360,112
Working - capital (£168,061)
appears to be adequate.


HOUSES
VICTORIA, NS.W.
Hill
TRI
BILT
TRIBILT
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
SITE BUILT READY TO LIVE IN
Prices absolutely predetermined; no extras at all. Complete
with slow combustion stove and hot water service
SEVEN WEEKS FROM ORDER!!
In certain Northern areas cypress pine framing and flooring and concrete stumps available at NO extra cost
OVER 4,000 OF THESE HOUSES HAVE BEEN BUILT IN THREE STATES
No delay —the Tribilt way and cheaper by hundreds
Ask the man who owns one
TRIBILT
PTY. LTD.
119 NOTT STREET, PORT MELBOURNE
MJ 1131 (5 lines)
FOR LATEST FREE
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
AND FIRM PRICES
PHONE, WRITE OR SEND
THIS COUPON
NAME
ADDRESS
Bulletin Show Issue


MELBOURNE SHOW
PREVIEW
NEARLY 750,000 attended Melbourne Show last year,
and the annual income of the Royal Agricultural
Society of Victoria was £250,000.
The emphasis this year will be on making it a
people’s exhibition, with concessions for family or school
parties, and, given the usual Show weather of sunny days and
cool nights, the upward trend of the figures will, it is hoped,
be continued.
Although the society’s Council, which is chiefly composed
of men engaged in country pursuits, sees steadily its primary
purpose—the improvement of agriculture—they have readily
accepted the broad vision of an Australian exhibition of all
industry and activity of today, and typical of the
all-embracing outlook this year will be the atomic-energy
research exhibit and a substantial contribution of New
Australian crafts.
About 25,000 entries have been received, and £20,000 in
prizes will be distributed in the 10 days from September 19
to 29. The entries include about 5000 horses, 1000 dairy -
cattle, 1000 beef-cattle, 1000 sheep, 1000 pigeons and cage-
birds, 2500 dogs, 800 pigs and poultry.
Other competitions will be held for fleeces of wool,
shearing championships, hay and fodder, wheat and other
types of grains, wines, homecraft exhibits, Young Farmers’
exhibits, fruit-picking competitions, and similar activities.
The Australian shows differ from those in other parts
of the world in that they have become more of an exhibition.
Overseas shows usually do not include the vast variety of
stalls and exhibits, and few provide the number of sideshows
and children’s amusements.
The R.A.S.V. is, however, a society whose purpose is
the promotion of agriculture. Farmers regard a prize won
at the Show as a hallmark: a quality of great importance as
competition for overseas markets grows keener.
This incentive to. compete with others, and to beat them,
results in a steady improvement in general standards. The
living exhibits at the Show are more than a lot of fancy-
looking animals. They are there for a purpose: to exhibit
quality.
TN their efforts to make this-
year’s Show a memorable
family outing, without financial
stings for the breadwinner,
officials have surveyed a con-
siderable part of the basic
costs.
Family tickets, at 10s.,
admitting both parents and up
to four children, will be on
sale, and officials have checked
sample-bags to ensure that the
contents are fair value for -the
money. No valueless bags will
be permitted.
The price of food has been
JUDGE NORMAN MITCHELL is president of the Show
this year for the first time, although he has been a member
of the Council since 1940 and was senior vice-president until
his unanimous election last March. He is also a committee-
man of the Yarra Glen and Lilydale Hunt Club, and is head
(privately) also of a sporting family; his wife is a breeder
and judge of dogs, and his youngsters are competitors in the
arena events.
checked by competent referees,
and during the currency of
the exhibition both raw
and cooked food will be
periodically inspected.
Members’ tickets have been
on sale for some weeks, and
will be available at gates. An
ordinary member’s ticket,
which includes admission of
one lady, is available at £4 45.,
and a single associate’s ticket
at £2 2s. Additional women’s
tickets, up to two, may be
bought by full members or life-
members at a guinea. The
tickets admit to all arena-
stands as well as to the Show-
grounds.
The Arena
Almost all the public events
and exhilaration for the
onlookers take place in the
arena, and every year, of
course, efforts are made to pro-
duce new thrills and to improve
some of the sections.
New or improved displays
this year will include races
with hose - vehicles by the
Country Fire Authority; a
mounted-police competition of
tent-pegging with lances;
triangular polocrosse (as it
suggests, a blending of lacrosse
and polo) with teams from
South Australia, N.S.W. and
Victoria ; an Army tattoo, with
the famous Southern Com-
mand band; a featured fire-
works display; the R.S.L.
Marching Girls; motor-cycle
stunting; and new Olympic-
style jumping, including jig-
saw and six-bar jumping-
contests.
Equestrian rides for boys
will be introduced for the first
time, too. Riding was given a
sharp stimulus by the Olympic
Games, although the horse
section was held over a three-
day meet at Stockholm.
Yet Australia competed and
ran fourth among 19 countries,
and young riders now are
imbued with the ambition to
ride for Australia in a future
Olympic.
Sheepdog trials will be pre-
sented on the arena programme
to allow peak-crowds to see
them ; and some will follow the
grand parade and similar arena
attractions.
On September 27, the last
Friday of the Show, the feature
of the trials will be a demon-
stration by a 10-year-old, Ron
Laird, of Calival, near Mitiaino,
with his Border Collie bitch,
Girnigo Bessie, a sheepdog
which has been worked at
previous Show trials. The
boy is a grandson of D. C.
Laird, of Werribee, a pro-
tagonist of the Sheep Dog
Association.
September Flibbertigibbet
Already the pace is quicken-
ing at the Showgrounds, the
characteristic broad down-
turned hats from the Western
District are in town, the hotels
are filling-up. Spring is in
Melbourne, and the Show
round the corner, although it
is never a reality until the first


stimulating smell of it at the
grounds themselves.
In recent years efforts have
been made to induce the
Council to change the Show
date from September to March,
when Melbourne usually enjoys
the best weather of the year,
since many sections could be
prepared almost simultaneously
for both Sydney and Melbourne
Shows.
The Council, however, has
decided to ride -again the
flighty filly, September. She’s
a flibbertigibbet, but they
know, by now, or think they do,
the farthest she can kick.
A Widening Appeal
In recent years the Council
has spent about £500,000 in
capital works and improve-
ments, on stands, rest areas and
new picnic-places, in its con-
tinual effort to make the Show
comfortable, attractive and all-
embracing for each generation.
More space is being found
for stands each year, particu-
larly for those presenting
action displays with educa-
tional interest, and there is, of
course, a leaning to displays
showing the processing or
manufacturing of primary
products.
Schools have responded
enthusiastically to education-
displays in recent Shows, and
long crocodiles of school-
children have moved all over
the Showgrounds to inspect the
glistening machinery and
animals, farm developments,
including new soil-conservation
methods and the secondary
stages of the products.
Almost all these children
are asked to write essays within
a day or two on some of the
nation’s activities which they
have seen demonstrated, and
the Council, in appreciation of
this widening of knowledge,
has dropped the charge for
admittance to a nominal six-
pence for scholars accompanied
by their teachers.
Dairy Display
The dairy-industry display
may be one of the most com-
prehensive yet seen. In addi-
tion to its economic possibilities
for the producer, it is also very
popular with the .Victorian
public.
This year there will be
ingenious machinery,
new devices and appli-
ances in refrigeration
and modem working-
plants ; and demonstra-
tions will be more
detailed.
The Garryowen
One of the most fascinating
events at the Show is the con-
test for the Garryowen Trophy
among outback and city
women from, usually, all
States, an equestrienne event
in which are judged horse,
equipment and riding ability.
It is a memorial event to
Violet Farmer (Mrs. W.
Murrell), who was at least one
of the country’s greatest horse-
women and cross-country
riders. She lost her life
attempting to rescue Garry-
owen, her champion saddle-
horse, from a blazing stable.
The Garryowen was insti-
tuted in 1934, when there were
18 entrants, and the numbers
have increased steadily until
today the Garryowen is one of
the breathtaking spectacles of
the Show for horse-lovers, as
the attractive riders, precisely
equipped on their burnished
mounts, parade before the
judge.
ATOMS FOR INDUSTRY
U.K. EXHIBITION S>IOWS
APPLICATION OF NUCLEAR
ENERGY
In the Centenary Hall at" the Mel-
bourne Royal Agricultural Show, to
be held September 19th to 29th,
the public will see a unique exhibi-
tion, demonstrating by models the
advances made by Britain in the
peaceful use of the atom. Organised
by the British Board of Trade and
the United Kingdom Atomic Energy
Authority this exhibition shows the
industrial application of atomic
energy.
IT BEGAN IN 1848
r pHE Show began from the
- intensity of feelings of a
handful of earnest farmers
about the disgraceful state of
agriculture. They formed, in
1848, the Port Phillip Farmers’
Society at Moonee Ponds,
lamenting the bad and back-
ward .state of the colony’s agri-
culture, especially the tillage,
which was unworkmanlike,
they complained, ploughing
slovenly, “amounting to noth-
ing more than a mere rooting
of the ground here and scratch-
ing of it there,” and “it seems
as if there are few men in the
colony calling themselves
ploughmen who could, or,
rather, care to, go straight
forward, every furrow being a
perfect zigzag.”
No doubt the pioneers'
indignation led to exaggera-
tion there, but they resolved to
make an attempt to effect
improvement by having an
annual ploughing-match and
offering' a few premiums for
the best teams of cattle at work
on the field, raising their funds
by an annual subscription
from the public.
Moonee Ponds
The first match in the colony
was held on the farm of La
Rose, Moonee Ponds, in 1848,
and to these, and shows of
working-stock, were gradually
added grain and implements,
and, in 1855, prizes for many


Inspect
many
New
Ideas
at the
Melbourne
Royal
Show
For the Man on
the Land who is
interested in
• IRRIGATION
• FORAGE '
HARVESTING
• SILAGE
MAKING
• DAIRY
FARMING
and everything else
connected with
primary production
WELCH PERRIN
& CO PTY 'LTD
48-56 Queen’s Bridge St., Sth. Melbourne
100 Years' .Service ,to the Man on the. /Und
kinds of stock and produce
.Were offered.
In that year the Farmers’
Society reported that the
number of ploughs attending
the matches and quantity of
stock and grain shown had
gradually increased, but the
greatest improvement had been
effected in the style of work
done and the quality of the
stock, ploughs and gear and
other implements.
Like every other activity,
farming suffered when the gold-
digging fever spread. Attend-
ances at the shows were: 1848,
17 ploughs; 1849, 21 ; 1850,
24; 1851, 33 ; 1852, 29 (the
first show after the gold-fever
gripped the colony); 1853, 31 ;
1854, 42.
Many left their farms and
went to the diggings. Others
left tilling and put their teams
on the roads to carry stores to
the diggers, since prices of
farm-produce had been low for
some time—£3 10s. for a ton
of hay and 7s. to Bs. a bushel
of wheat—while high prices
were paid for every kind of
labor.
The society was almost lost;
but it was the finest hour of
the few who had not left their
farms. “We seemed likely to
be extinguished as a class
unless we exerted ourselves,
being shown no favors by any
class as we were too poor for
them to get much out of*
whether they were diggers,
squatters, Government or the
commercial class,” wrote one
of them.
“The chief support of the
society left were a few farmers
who managed to make a good
muster and so conquer the
gold-fever. They reaped the
benefit, since the great rise in
the price of farm-produce, and
these prices have led to a
marked improvement in our
working-stock, implements and
general management.”
Prosperous, and perhaps a
little complacent by the reward
of their steadfastness, It Was
Unanimously Resolved that a
Deputation to consist of the
President, Donald Kennedy,
Esq., M.L.C., William Nichol-
son, Esq., M.L.C., Mr. David
Duncan, Mr. A. C. M’Cracken,
Secretary, be appointed to
wait upon his Excellency Sir
Charles Hotham, K.C.8., to
solicit his Excellency to become
Patron of the Society.
The Port Phillip Farmers’
Society used as its Show-
grounds an area in Parkville
(perhaps 15 minutes’ brisk
walking from the Elizabeth
Street P.O. of today), some-
where near where Fawkner
Park is now. It had successful
and poor shows until 1870,
when the venue of the shows
was changed to St. Kilda Road,
where the police-barracks now
stand. The ’ society was then
renamed the National Agricul-
tural Society.
Ascot Vale
Die St. Kilda Road area was
used until 1883, when the
present site at Ascot Vale was
selected, and every show has
since been conducted there, on
the far side of Flemington
Hill. In 1890 Royal assent was
given for the use of the name
“Royal,” and the title was
changed to the Royal Agri-
cultural Society of Victoria.
The original area occupied
by the society at Ascot Vale
was 30 acres. It is now 72
acres, across which run seven
miles of streets (three miles
festooned), four electrical sub-
stations built by the society,
sewerage - works, gas, tele-
phones and all modern
facilities.
Running the Show
During the Show the society
employs 700, including 70
cleaners who cart away, by
mechanical equipment, 150
tons of rubbish every night
and 200 cubic yards of manure.
Before the Show there is an
immense amount of organisa-
tion required, as each entry is
carefully checked and num-
bered, a space allotted for
its accommodation, judges
appointed from many parts of
the world, stall-holders allotted
and contracts arranged, caterers
appointed, trophies and sashes
bought, arrangements com-
pleted with transport .depart-
ments aiid all practical facilities
provided for the owners of
exhibits and for the public.
Aside from the State and the
University, the society has, of
course, contributed most in
Victoria to the advancement of
agriculture. The continual
improvement in quality and
quantity is apparent when
pictures of the cattle and sheep
exhibited years ago are com-
pared with the present-day
animals.
There are not only improve-
ments from the visual point of
view, but also the benefits
which have come from the
emphasis at the Show on the
ability to increase production.
Officers of the society point
out frequently that one of its
main objects is to promote
agriculture, and that it has a
special duty to ensure that this
is faithfully carried into effect,
because visitors to the Show
look chiefly for light entertain-
ment. Yet much of the staff’s
year is occupied in promoting
the interests of these (among
other) animal-breed societies:—
Commonwealth Clydesdale Horse
Society; Equestrian Federation of
Australia; Australian Pony Stud
Book Society; Shorthorn Society of
Australia; Australian Poll Here-
ford Society; United Stud Beef
Cattle Breeders’ Association of Vic-
toria; Ayrshire Cattle Herd Book
Society of Australasia; Red Poll
Cattle Breeders’ Association of
Australia; Friesian Cattle Cluh of
Australia; Dairy Shorthorn Associ-
ation of Australia; Australian
Jersey Herd Society; Australian
lliawarra Shorthorn Society;
Guernsey Cattle Society of Aus-
tralia; \ ictorian Herd Improve-
ment Association.
Goat Society of Australia; Aus-
tralian Society of Breeders of
British Sheep; Australian Corrie-
dale Association; Australian Pis
Society; Kennel Control Council;
Victorian Working Sheep Dog
Association; Poultry Control
Council; Chamber of Agriculture of
Victoria; Senior Young Farmers
of Victoria; Artificial Breeding
Association of Victoria, and the
Farm Competitions Association.
The administrative work for
all these associations is carried
out by the R.A.S.V. For prac-
tically all of thmi, pedigrees
and registrations (together with
certain promotion work) are
regularly and continuously
under the care of-the society’s
staff.
Some of these societies are
both Commonwealth- and
State-wide, and have up to
8000 members on their own
account, and the society’s staff
are likely to regard the ques-
tion, “What do you do when
there is no Show on?” as
rather frivolous.
The society, in its efforts to
improve the quality of farmers
themselves, has, especially in
recent years, given special
attention to young farmers.
Roy Pendlebury, of Day
Dawn, Cavendish, Victoria,
won this year’s R.A.S.V.
travelling-scholarship to New


WOOL PRESSES
WE CAN SUPPLY ALL YOUR NEEDS
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
THE
NEW AJAX
MODEL B
By use of an ingenious framework the
New Model B does away with the hard
work of lifting the monkey in and out
of the press, thus making it easier and
faster.
In effect, the framework acts as a false
top box and allows a greater topping up
of the wool —so much less wool to tramp.
EVERYMAN’S WOOL PRESS
is
THE AJAX MAJOR
Two Box ALL STEEL WooSpress
Already acclaimed by many hundreds of Australian
graziers from two to twelve stand sheds. You will be
proud to show the good heavy square bales from this
press. (One man, 35 to 45 bales per day; two men,
65 to 70 or more.)
• Completely Portable on its own Two Wheels.
• New Patent Hoist for Effortless Lifting.
• Captive Monkey always in top box Eliminates
Lifting.
• New Two Speed Action on Roller Bearings fo£
Faster and Easier Pressing.
AJAX
THE FIRST CHOICE
FOR YEARS OF MANY
THOUSANDS OF
AUSTRALIAN SHEEP
FARMERS
Ask Your WOOLHOUSE or MACHINERY MERCHANT
AGENTS IN ALL STATES
Manufacturers and Patentees: DONALD PATENTS LTD., 390 CLENMORE RD., PADDINGTON, SYDNEY, N.S.W


TIE WIRE-NETTING
GERRARD
AUTOMATIC
RING FASTENER
GUN - - - 60/- Getch
GALVANISED FASTENERS
..... 11/. per 100(8
THIS EASY WAY-
(2S yds. per minute)
Ring Fasteners are sold
in packets of 1000
J
lAs fast as you can squeeze Its
easy-working handles, this self-
feeding gun effortlessly clamps the
14 Gauge cement-adhered staples into sturdy in. rings, which are automafU
(catty ted tntp the jaws. There is rto wastage—the job is quick, neat and strong
Available from ALL WOOL HOUSES and
GENERAL STORES
Manufactured by Gerrard Engineering Pty. Ltd., 18 Ireland St., W. MELB.
Zealand from a strong team of
entrants.
Mr. Pendlebury, who is 34
years of age, is married and has
three children. He spent four
years in the R.A.A.F., being
discharged with the rank of
sergeant. He is farming on his
own property of 676 acres in
the Western District on the
main Cavendish - Coleraine
Road, raising fat lambs and
vealers, and also running a
Merino flock for wool, as well
as cattle.
The winner of the scholar-
ship learned farming on the
property of his father, who was
an Anzac of World War I. He
is a member of the committee
of the Hamilton Pastoral and
Agricultural Society and a
member of its sheep com-
mittee: he is also a membe'r
of the Australian Primary Pro-
ducers’ Union.
The scholarship, which is
made practicable by a gift of
£5OO on the part of the Com-
monwealth Bank, was devised
to enable a Victorian farmer
to study farming, with
particular reference to fat-
lamb-raising, in New Zealand.
It is tenable for about three
months. The £5OO provided by
the Commonwealth Bank will
provide travelling and living
expenses: the Royal Agricul-
tural Society has arranged with
leading farmers’ organisations
in N.Z. to provide opportuni-
ties for the study of produc-
tion, selling, killing and
packing methods used in N.Z.
Pendlebury will be given an
opportunity to attend the
Show, and will leave for N.Z.
in time to arrive in the last
week of September.
During the tenure of the
award, Mr. Pendlebury will be
required to devote all his time
to a course of practicable study
approved by the R.A.S., after-
wards resuming residence in
Victoria. He wilL co-operate
with the society in publicising
his experiences and will submit
a written report to the advisory
committee on his work in N.Z.
* * *
Reports from departments at
Ascot Vale, where activity has
increased each day in the last
few weeks, are optimistic.
Entries in the Victorian
Fleece Championships indicate
the prospect of an outstanding
exhibition of fleeces.
In the last four years the
society has created for this
competition a reputation as one
of the outstanding fleece tests
in the Commonwealth.
New championship-awards
have been provided to
encourage exhibitors from
soldier-settlers and members of
the Young Farmers’ Organisa-
tion. These will compete in
the general classes, but the
championship-fleece will be
selected on a restricted basis
and will be judged irrespective
of how the soldier-settler or
Young Farmer exhibiting fared
in the general classes.
The conditions provide for
exhibits from any part of
Australasia. Already the
strongest entry ever has been
received from New Zealand,
and entries from every State
of the Commonwealth except
Western Australia are to hand.
In view of the success of
Victorian exhibitors in the
national championships held
this year in association with the
Brisbane Show, Victoria must
be represented in much stronger
proportions in the forthcoming
fleece competition in Victoria.
To encourage this, the society
has provided for special
championship-awards restricted
to Victorian exhibitors. These
comprise nine individual
championships to a total value
'of 120gns. in trophies—the first
time the society has provided
such an attractive array of
trophies in sections restricted to
Victorian woolgrowers.
A total of £250 in prize-
money, which has been donated
by the Commercial Bank of
Australia, has been provided
for the fleece competition. The
champion fleece of Victoria
(i.e., restricted to Victorian
growers) canries a trophy
of 30gns.
All fleeces in these competi-
tions will require to’ be skirted.
Ihe competition provides an
excellent opportunity to
growers who have exhibited at
recent sheep shows, and who
have shorn their top stud sheep,
to add to the list of -their
achievements.
The judges in the fleece com-
petition will be leading wool-
experts from the Melbourne
and Geelong Woolbrokers’
Associations.
Melbourne Show’s reputa*
tion as the best wine exhibition
in the Commonwealth seems
hkely to be sustained this year.
For it 663 entries were
received in the sections cover-
ing wines, spirits, cider,
liqueurs and aerated waters —
Un all-time Australian record
for a non-championship year,
and, in fact, well above the
entries (637) in Melbourne’s
last championship year, 1956.
The championships are
decided successively at the
annual shows of Sydney,
Adelaide and Melbourne, in
that order, so that Melbourne
is not due now for a champion-
ship Show until 1959. The
wine-entries for the Melbourne
Show this year are a marked
increase on those of the last
comparable (that is, non-
cnampionship) year, 1955,
when they numbered 486.
The judges were: R. Buller
(Continued on page 40)


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
VfyfHILE Tulloch and Tod-
man, other good-class
three-year-olds, the best of the
older w.-f.-a. gallopers about
and horses with an engagement
in the A.J.C. Epsom and Metro-
politan appear in the noms. for
the feature event of next Satur-
day’s Tattersall’s meeting at
Randwick —the w.-f.-a. nine-
furlongs Chelmsford Stakes —
it’s difficult, at time of writing,
to say what talent will face the
starter. Generally, though, it’s
a race in which a fair bit of
the cream is left to float about.
Other events of interest on
the card are the seven-furlongs
Tramway Handicap, an Epsom
guide, and the 10-furlongs
Spring Handicap, where
Metrop. fancies may go
through their paces.
Last September Advocate
(second favorite) won the
Chelmsford from favorite
Caranna, with Somerset Fair
third. Redcraze, an outsider
on that occasion, finished
fourth. Teranyan won the
Tramway from Gentle Lu and
Cuirassier; Blazeaway rele-
gated Half Hennesy and
Roman Holiday into the minor
places in the Spring Handicap.
Some of the best of them are
included in the list of Chelms-
ford winners. Delta and
Limerick each had three suc-
cesses. Rogilla was a dual
winner. One of the easiest wins
in the event was Gloaming’s
romp in 1918. With 6.11 to
carry and Des O’Connor (still
a regular at Sydney meetings)
to steer, Gloaming beat Rebus
(9.4) and Kennaquhair (9.0).
When Delta won the race for
the third time he ran the nine
in 1.49}, an Australian record.
Advocate’s 1.49} last spring
just nudged under that to
create new figures.
i I®- Al L9J •
Phar Lap, beaten by Molli-
son the previous year, scored
his win in the event over Night-
march in 1930. Both Night-
march and Phar Lap galloped
many times at Rosebery, where
they more than once had the
writer’s watch ticking in
yvonderment.
• • •’ •
The racebook for the corres-
ponding meeting in 1929 shows
that the Chelmsford (then
worth £1250, - now worth
£2000) was won by Mollison
(9.4) from Phar Lap (7.6) and
Winalot (9.11). Phar Lap, then
a three-year-old raced by
owner-trainer Harry Telford,
a few weeks later won the two
Derbys and was an unlucky
third in the Melbourne Cup to
Nightmarch and Paquito.
Great discussion followed that
year’s Cup.
• •" '•] •
“Follow the three-year-olds”
has been the advice given early
in the season by many sound
judges of Sydney racing—and
how well it’s working out! No
less than five of that age got
away with races on the eight-
event Canterbury card on
Saturday, one of those, of
course, the Guineas won by
the brilliant Todman.
Those who were so eager
earlier in the youngster’s career
to write-off Todman as all
right for a short sprint
are one by one being silenced
by the mounting performances
of the freak chestnut. He went
to the post on Saturday a
3-to-l-on chance in the 91-
furlongs Canterbury Guineas,
and even the majority of his
critics were prepared to allow
that he would be too brilliant
for his opponents around the
Canterbury saucer.
• •]' t«r •
What they were not prepared
for was his ridiculously easy
win: only two lengths clear of
his nearest pursuer at the turn,
he raced away in the straight
to bolt in by eight lengths, with
another six lengths to the next.
Todman managed the distance
in 2min., surprising time, con-
sidering that there appeared to
be no pace on at all in the first
seven furlongs.
• • • •
Where Todman goes from
here it is difficult to say; but
since on Saturday he appeared
to surprise even his trainer,
McCarten, who has claimed all
along that the colt would get
the Derby distance, there is no
saying where his run of suc-
cesses will end. One thing is
certain, however; his clash
with Tulloch, which may now
not be until the Derby, will be
one of the greatest lures to a
racetrack in years.
i The Nagel family of Queens-
land, who have been racing
horses for many years, were
truly in the limelight at Canter-
bury. Mrs. A. C. Nagel won
the First Ashbury Stakes with
New Kingdom, a stylish-looking
chestnut by Star Kingdom,
who could develop into a top-
hole sprinter. Her son, Gordon
Nagel, won the Campsie
Stakes with Ranchipur, a
brother to dual Derby winner
Morvi’s Pride. Although it
was Ranchipur’s first win, the
run was a good trial for the
A.J.C. Derby, as the Canterbury
race was over 11 furlongs and
65yds.—the longest distance
any three-year-old has accom-
plished this season.
• • • •
The backing of Evening Peal
for the A.J.C. Epsom in
doubles ending with her stable-
mate Macdougal for the Metro-
politan was justified by the
mare’s splendid fourth in the
Canterbury Flying—her second
outing since a holiday. Last
early and still there at the
home-turn, she unwound a
punishing sprint to get near the
placegetters. She is still as
plain-looking as ever, but has
not lost the ability to gallop.
Australian racing folk are
anxious to see N.Z. stayer
Rhythmonic in action. He’s
among the noms. for next
week’s Chelmsford and Spring
Handicap. Rhythmonic has
8.11 in both Caulfield Cup and
Melbourne Cup, and with
first-class form in the Dominion
to recommend him, he's a
popular order for both events.
Stablemate Zariba, another
classy New Zealander, also
figures in the nominations for
the Tattersall’s meeting. The
grey has had-a couple of starts
in Sydney w.-f.-a. events, and
is fast getting into top race
condition.
The annual two-year-old
trials, conducted from barrier-
stall starts under actual race
conditions, will be run at Rand-
wick on Tuesday, September
17, and at Rosebery on
Friday, September 27. Last
spring 18 trials were decided
at Randwick and 13 at Rose-
bery. Interesting to note that
among the trial winners were
Tulloch, Prince Darius, Con-
cert Star, New Light, Flying
Kuranna and Court Slipper.
Other trial winners that had
owners pouting their chests at
the time, only to fall down on
that early promise, included
Light Touch, Ronern, Lucky
Clue, Thou Swell, Staircase
Star, Showpiece and Wonder-
way. Some competitors in
those special trials have yet to
be seen with the colors up.
And this year’s trials . . . Who
knows?
•• •' #1 ~ •
Spring racing in Melbourne
got away to an exciting start
last Saturday at Caulfield when
Syntax and Sailor’s Guide
staged a head-and-head struggle
over the last two furlongs of
the Memsie Stakes—the verdict
to Syntax by a short half-head.
There were some who rated
Syntax’s run slightly disappoint-
ing, believing that the New Zea-
lander should have won more
decisively to justify his posi-
tion as short-priced favorite for
the Caulfield Cup, in which he
has to concede Sailor’s Guide
31b. This writer had a close
look at the Victorian horse in
the mounting-yard, and believes
he has never looked better nor
more eager to race. He is now
a five-year-old, at which age


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
many horses have reached their
prime. In the last two seasons,
Sailor’s Guide has had the
heartbreaking task of racing
behind two outstanding horses
•—Rising Fast and Redcraze ;
and he seems doomed to suffer
the same fate behind Syntax
this season.
• • • •
New Zealand opinion rates
Syntax second only to Kinder-
garten as the best horse bred in
the Dominion this generation.
That view is not extravagant.
Syntax has all the attributes
of a champion—looks, ability,
and, perhaps most important of
all, courage, which he showed
in abundance in last Saturday’s
punishing finish.
• • • •
Although it was over-
shadowed by the performances
of Syntax and Sailor’s Guide,
Good Summer's third placing
in the Memsie Stakes was a
notable run. This handsome
chestnut has a lot of quality
and may provide stiffer opposi-
tion to the Sydney colts in
this season’s classics than is
generally believed. Trainer
Stan Smithers confirmed after
the race that Good Summer
will go to Sydney for the A.J.C.
Derby.
It’s doubtful if the winner of
this year’s Caulfield or Mel-
bourne Cup was seen in last
Saturday’s Heatherlie Handi-
cap. The race went to Sum-
malu, Victoria’s best colt of
last season. The winner put up
a good performance in that
he was a long way from the
lead at the half-mile, and went
to the line very stoutly. After
the race part-owner Denis
Leonard stated that he con-
sidered Sumrnalu’s run a first-
class Caulfield Cup trial, and
that the horse would now miss
handicap events in order to
avoid a penalty for the Cup.
While Summalu’s stamina is not
in doubt, he may lack the
brilliance demanded of a Caul-
field Cup winner.
The same can be said of the
Queenslander Book Link, who
finished a good fourth in the
Heatherlie after being tailed-off
a long last at the half-mile.
Perhaps Book Link will be
better suited in the Melbourne
Cup, but he has 8.10 in the
two-mile race, and may be too
close in the weights to the
better-performed horses.
Although his colt Gay Saba
scored a comfortable first-up
victory in last Saturday’s mile
Warriston Handicap for colts
and geldings, Melbourne
master-baker Bill Balloch was
not optimistic that Gay Saba
could win a Derby for him this
season. He should know what
is required of a classic winner ;
he owned Alister, last Victorian
colt to win the two Derbys.
Gay Saba has been nominated
for the A.J.C. Derby, but Mr.
Balloch expressed doubts about
the colt making the trip. Gay
Saba has the bloodlines to win
a classic, being out of Dun-
murry by the imported N.Z.
sire Sabaean, a son of English
Derby winner Blue Peter.
• • • •
Reg Heather rode his first
metropolitan winner following
a short-lived retirement when
he scored on Wide Awake in the
seven - furlongs Glen Eira
Handicap for fillies at Caulfield.
Although he had announced
when he made his comeback
that he would not ride under
8.10, he wasted to 8.4 for Wide
Awake, and still displayed all
his former strength to land
the filly a winner from an put-
side barrier.
Wide Awake has won at three
of her last five starts, and pro-
bably represents Victoria’s best
chance in the classic events for
fillies this season. However, the
success of Cherete at Chelten-
ham (S.A.) last Saturday sug-
gests that the flying Adelaide
filly who proved too good for
the Victorian colts last
autumn, and who has won at
her last eight starts, will sweep
the board in the classic events
for fillies this spring.
Flemington trainer Phil
Burke has a reputation for try-
ing and for placing his horses
well, and any stable-lead for a
“Burke” horse is quickly
followed by the public; and
yet, at Caulfield last Saturday,
Burke prepared the roughest
double to win on a metro-
politan course for many a day.
He won the mile-and-a-half
Doona Handicap with the 100-
to-1 Gay Piper, whose form had
been atrocious, and the six-
furlongs Whittier Handicap
with the 66-to-l shot Western
District, who was having his
first start after a spell.
Nobody could have antici-
pated the success of Gay Piper,
who had not run within cooee
of a place in four previous
trial - company starts, but
Western District had shown
good form last time up, and had
in fact scored impressively at
his most recent start before
being spelled. It was an
excellent performance for the
three-year-old to win in open
company, and Western District
should do well in the sprint-
events for youngsters during
the spring. He is by High Peak
out of Lhenga, an unraced
mare, by Dhoti from All Frills
by Beau Fils.
Feature race at Moonee
Valley next Saturday will be
the mile £2OOO John F. Feehan
Handicap, known in previous
years as the John F. Feehan
Stakes. The race has attracted
a useful but not first-class field.
Main interest will centre
around the form of Lord Gavin,
equal second-favorite for the
Caulfidd Cup, who is due to
have his first run for the season
in the race. The New
Zealander Humber Hawk is
another interesting entrant.
Fighting Force will need to run
well to hold his place in the
Melbourne Cup market.
• • • •
The Melbourne Racing Club,
which at present depends on
the good offices of the other
three metropolitan clubs to con-
duct its meetings, is pushing
ahead with work oh its own
course being constructed at
Sandown, some 15 miles to the
south-east of the city. Build-
ing tenders have been let for
approximately £250,000, and
the club hopes the course will be
ready for racing by 1960. Club
secretary Jack Reilly inspected
courses all over the world
before plans were drawn up for
Sandown, and the completed
course .will offer some features
novel in Australia.
“R.A.C.”: Mallant (Nilo-
Constant Belle), carrying top
weight of 9.4, easily won the
1957 Kalgoorlie Cup. Very
highly regarded as a three-
year-old when he won the 1955
-W.A. Derby, Mallant then
developed leg trouble and was
sent out for a long spell. Likely
to be heavily weighted in
future handicaps, he will race
only in w.-f.-a. events, or may
go east.
* * *
Determined Boy did it again
at the Harold Park trot-fixture
on Friday nighL Since there
was no 19-front event on the
programme, trainer Hall was
lorced to start the gelding
from 24yds. in the 21-class, a
difficult mark. Moving safely
from the mark, he was given
time to settle down, then
sprinted from last to first, to be
one outside Rushon, moving to
the front at the bell. He held
off the challenges like a good
horse to record his fourth win
in the four meetings conducted
in the new Harold Park season.
His 3.38 for the furlongs
was good time for the track,
by no means fast in its present
state.
♦ • • •
“R.A.C.”: The crowd at
Perth’s Gloucester Park on
August 31 began to cheer
Beau Don when he raced to
the lead in the back straight.
He went on to win-his 15th
free-for-all, bumping his stake-
winnings to £22,130. Now a
nine-year-old, “the Don” is
something of a freak. He is
locally-bred, by Don Sebastian
from Nellie’s Vin —both com-
parative unknowns ; the dam
reputedly a mere milk-round
horse. Beau Don, however, is
a horse in world class. He
would only need to step on to
the track in his heyday to
gain the warm acclaim of the
crowd. As a four-year-old, he
was considered unbeatable,
and must have been unlucky
not to have won the 1953 Inter-
Dominion at Perth. Unknown
to his driver (F. W. Foy), he
cast a shoe before the Final,
lost about 60yds. at the start,
and still finished in the middle
of the field. His many triumphs
include two Trotting Cups.


m
NEW "RADAR-EYE
II
ON QAN lAS
Constellations
plots t9t« W9<stfa«f 100 miles ahead
far smoother, more comfortable Hying
This latest addition to the world-famous
Qantas Super-G Constellation provides even
smoother flying for world travellers. Qantas
Super-G Constellations enjoy a reputation
based on millions of miles over inter-
continental routes.
Fly high in the smooth upper air and enjoy
the highest standard of air travel in the world
today. The modern, convenient rest-rooms
and full-length, soft, foam-cushioned chairs
are all well-known features of the Qantas
Super-G Constellations. For the utmost in
luxury air travel to Europe, America, Asia
and Africa, fly Qantas.
AUSTRALIA'S OVERSEAS AIRLINE
OaeiPds fitter* Airways Limited (Inc. in Q’ld.) in association with 8.0.A.C. and TEAL
<? 40.82,47
Football Round-up
CJT. GEORGE “Dragons”
breathed the fire of grim,
take-no-chances semi -final foot-
ball on the Manly “Seagulls” in
Sydney's second League semi,
and finished on top 21-7. The
game was marked by tough,
tight forward play, in which the
battering-ram St. George pack
fairly revelled. Souths and
Manly meet next week to decide
who'll have the Saints on in
the grand-final .... Essendon
defeated Melbourne by 16
points, 12.11-8.19, in the
second V.F.L. semi-final. The
Dons won in a devastating
second quarter, when they put
on 9.3 to 0.2. The Demons
fought back, but couldn’t
bridge the gap. Melbourne had
won the teams’ two previous
games this year, once con-
vincingly, the other by one
point after that still-contro-
versial free-kick. This Saturday
it’s Melbourne v. Hawthorn.
ln Sydney’s Rugby Union
it was St. George again on top
—ll-5, Gordon the sufferers.
St. George’s victory, their first
in six years over Gordon at
Chatswood Oval, puts them
into the grand-final; next
week’s Randwick-Gordon clash
will decide their opponents.
Gordon, it must be noted,
played Saturday’s game nine
shy of regulars —they’ve been
hard hit by Wallaby selections
and injuries.
* * *
The 1957 Magarey Medal,
S.A.’s “Brownlow,” was won
by West Adelaide centreman
Ron Benton, with South
Adelaide skipper Jim Deane,
winner of the Magarey in 1953,
runner-up—for the third time.
Benton is only the third 19-
year-old to have won the
Magarey, the other two being
Phil Sandland in 1901 and
Lindsay Head in 1955 ; and
he’s the first player to win the
medal without representing the
State. The last West Adelaide
Magarey Medallist was Jack
Sexton, in 1931.
••• • X
“Atala”: I wrote the par.
on Port Adelaide’s two full-
forwards Rex Johns and Neil
Hawke (B. 4/9/’57) before the
story had reached its rightful
conclusion. Johns was dropped
for Hawke, as I said, in the
last minor-round game against
West; but at threequarter-time
Hawke had been held to one
goal, Port was trailing by 13
points— and Port selectors
tendered Johns what amounted
to a public apology by sending
him on and giving Hawke the
bird. Johns then kicked three
beauties, helping Port to put
on 12.4 in a dazzling last
quarter. Johns, incidentally,
came third, only two votes
behind the winner, in the
Magarey Medal count.
* . * *
And Sundry Sports
SPORTING dragnet: In an all-
Australian final of the U.S. singles
tennis-title, Mai Anderson, who now
looks very likely to have a Davis
Cup singles berth, defeated Ashley
Cooper, 10-8, 7-5, 6-4. He was the
first unseeded player to win the
title. It was “all-Australian” last
year, too, when Rosewatl beat Hoad
in four sets. Althea Gibson won
the women’s title... .Victorian
Laurie Whitehead, in a Volkswagen,
won the 10,500-mite Mobilgas round-
Australia car-trial; Volkswagens
filled the first six places... .Murray
Halberg won the Victorian 10-mile
cross-country run (in 52min. 18sec.),
with two other New Zealanders in
the places. In Sydney, at times
against gusty headwinds, Dave
Power won the “modified” 15-
mile marathon, in his first run
over a distance greater than 10
miles. In London, Alan Lawrence
won an invitation 3000-metres race.
Les Cook, of Victoria, won the
132-miles Bankstown to Wollongong
and back professional cycling-race,
in a record time of 6hrs. 3min.
9sec.; Bob Leach, of N.S.W., was
second, half-a-wheel behind... .The
Japanese champions Tanaka and
Ogimura defeated Australia (repre-
sented by Jennings and Peters) m
two table-tennis “Tests,” one in
Melbourne, one in Sydney; each
time it was five rubbers to nil
In Brisbane Rugby League, Valley
beat West 18-12 in the final, and
meets Brothers in the “grand” this
Saturday. At Colombo, Australian
Rugby Union Colts defeated Ceylon
ir. the second “Test” 37-3. In
Sydney Australian Rules, East won
its fifth successive premiership,
defeating Sydney Naval 12.18-9.18.
....At West Melbourne, Australian
featherweight champion Bobby Sinn
was decisively outpointed by Vic-
torian lightweight boxer Max Carlos.
At Liverpool (Eng.) British boxer
Pat McAteer retained his British
and Empire middleweight titles by
outpointing a former Danish
champion, Martin Hansen, now a
naturalised Briton. In London
British welterweight boxer Peter
Waterman knocked-out German
Brnst Zetzmann, in the sixth round.
At Manchester. South African and
Empire lightweight champion Willie
Toweel defeated Spaniard Bobby
Ros on points in a non-title bout.
* * *
Young South African Gary
Player will brighten Australian
golf for a few months when
he plays a series of exhibition
matches with Australian Open
champion Bruce Crampton,
Later this year Player will go
to Japan, where he will team
with countryman Bobby Locke
in the Canada Cup. Australia’s
reps, there will probably be
Peter Thomson and Bruce
Crampton or Thomson and
Kel Nagle, who teamed to
win the Canada Cup in 1954.
• # • •
“Sandgroper”: Playing in
the annual country-week four-
ball event in W.A., Bob
Meecham, former president of
the Brookton Golf Club, hit
the ball on to the Royal Fre-
mantle Golf Club roof with his
third shot at the bogey-five
18th. Darkness was closing in
when Meecham, herein personi-
fying the Keen Golfer, was
heard to ask where he could
find a stepladder.
“N.A.8.”: Keep an eye on
North Sydney student
Michael Downie, who won
the open event at the school-
boys’ golf-carnival at Katoomba
(N.S.W.) the other day.
Michael, at the ripe old
age of 13, returned a nine-
over-par 78.
* * *
Clive Stewart (11.6) got a
points decision in his latest
Sydney Stadium appearance, a
12-round affair with American
negro Billy Hester (11.5). Con-
sidering that he had to over-
come his opponent’s southpaw
style, his effort in coming home
strongly over the last five
rounds was encouraging, but
nothing to write home about
in the light of the way his
opponent tired to the point of
exhaustion in those five rounds.


p u bV» ca
t\ons
th e
, tO» Cl
ae
,a^ c
a
nu.«.'* wl * I '*-
, \ e a° ng • vv
lh e ' *«~ c V^ ey
\sv
Mla c
a vA«*
ung
p tt n
ttv
&
* LO
LtO-« '*
&
W»
I^'
aevs
K-
ijea
lA* cV *
Ht\^°
I
BTi
as
gg©
and G. Graham, of Ruther-
glen, and D. Seabrook and
R. A. Smith, of Melbourne,
with J. Brown, of Milawa, and
B. M. Coulter and J. H.
Walker, of Melbourne, as
associate-judges (wines and
cider); T. Fogarty, H. T.
Houston and C. W. Simmonds,
of Melbourne (spirits
hqueurs), and J. Elliott, of
Carlton, and C. Wallman, of
Melbourne (aerated waters).
One of the problems every
year is the housing of the
cattle. Cattle are growing
numerically every year
throughout the State, and in
quality as well as quantity
commanding increasing atten-
tion. The breed-societies are
growing in numbers all the
time, and the entries in the
cattle section are increasing
accordingly.
The problem was compli-
cated this year by the large
entries in the cattle section, of
Jerseys in particular. The
Jersey entry is 588. Although
this is not the biggest entry
ever received, it is not far
behind the record entry of 621
of 1955.
The figures for most of the
livestock, and other important,
sections, with last year’s totals
in parenthesis, are:
Horses: Clydesdales (122),
129; farm and lorry (16), 24;
Arabs (24), 22 ; trotters (52),
52 ; Galloways (66), 72 ; ponies
(201), 245 : saddle-horses, etc.
(1469), 1711 ; harness-horses,
etc. (156), 180 ; riding-competi-
tions (1046), 1120; novelty
horse events (355), 246; jump-
ing-competitions (1226), 1 175.
Cattle: Shorthorns (140),
144 ; Poll Shorthorns (25), 14 ;
Herefords (98), 85 ; Poll Here-
fords (117), 128; Aberdeen
Angus ( 199), 179 ; Devons (16),
18 : Red Polls (63), 59 ; Dairy
Shorthorns (164), 187 ; fat
cattle (40), 62 ; lllawarra
Shorthorns (200), 176 ; Ayr-
shires (221), 205 ; Jerseys (549),
588; Guernseys (163), 159;
Friesians (246). 213.
Goats: (147), 166.
Sheep: Lincolns (8), 8;
Border Leicesters (144), 149;
English Leicesters (28), 39 ;
Romney Marsh (93), 50 ;
Cheviots (81), 130; Dorset
Horns (225), 229 ; Shropshires
(7), 5 ; Southdowns (145), 145 ;
Suffolks (24), 30 ; Ryelands
(143), 160; Hampshire Downs
( —), 5 ; Corriedales (69). 56.
Pigs (561), 590 ; Poultry
(2058), 1691 ; Pigeons (626),
997; Wines, etc. (637), 663 ;
Farm Produce (213), 198;
Dairy Produce (308), 264.
Apiculture (69), 85 ; Home
Crafts (2509), 2412; Sheep-dog
Trials (78), 117; Wood-chop-
ping and -sawing (1002), 982;
Trolting-races (542), 717;
Fruit- packing competitions
(114), 96; Young Farmers’
competitions (349), 229.
THE NUCLEAR EXHIBITION
THE nuclear exhibition by
the Uniled Kingdom,
which has already been
shown in Sydney and
Brisbane, will be seen in the
Centenary Hall at the Mel-
bourne Show.
This unique exhibition,
demonstrating by models the
advances made by Britain in
the peaceful use of the atom,
has enhanced significance with
the recent British announce-
ment that the U.K. is in a posi-
tion to export almost anything
required for an atomic-energy
undertaking.
Organised by the British
Board of Trade and (he U.K.
Atomic Energy Authority, this
exhibition shows the industrial
application of atomic energy,
especially in the production of
electric power.
Models of the Dbunreay
reactor and a section of the
atomic heart of Calder Hall
station’s actual reactor are
included, and are illuminated to
show how they operate. The
display contains a scale model
of the first atomic power-station
at Calder Hall, which was
opened last October. Calder
Hall power-station is also
shown in the process of con-
struction, demonstrating how
more than a thousand firms,
spread throughout the United
Kingdom, were involved,
building-up a new industry for
Britain.
The exhibit also shows that
the United Kingdom Atomic
Energy Authority has, in addi-
tion to the well-known Harwell
establishment, 14 factories and
research - establishments in
Britain ; and something of what
goes on in them is pictured and
explained. There are 12
different types of research-
reactor now in operation or
under construction in Britain:
some of these are very advanced
types.
The display also shows how
Britain is collaborating with


Mail This Coupon UQW
For This New ALL PURPOSE
Fishing Knife
THE ANGLER'S KNIFE
• Made of the famous Solin-
gen stainless steel with
folding gaff.
• Large cutting blade.
• Second blade containing
hook remover, scaler and
bottle opener.
• Fluorescent handle turned
for grip.
B. 11/9
SWIFT MAIL ORDERS,
Bo* 7051, G.F.0., Sydney.
Please supply
for which I enclose £.
NAME ....
ADDRESS -
283 Elizabeth St., Sydney,
Phone: BM 3102.
C.O.D. charges extra.
Price 39/0
post free
-WwTWTT
other nations throughout the
world in the techniques of
developing nuclear power and
how it is making its experience
available to Australia, training
a number of its scientists, and,
in fact, assisting in the produc-
tion of a research-reactor for
Australia.
The designers of the visual-
aids which picture the industry,
together with the models of the
reactors, have aimed at making
the exhibition the next-best
thing to a visit to an actual
atomic plant. The gnodels of
the reactors are opened up to
show how they operate.
One unit reveals the interior
of a sphere which envelopes the
new reactor nearing completion
at Dounreay. This is the vast
liquid-metal-cooled reactor —
the “breeder” which will
create more fuel than it con-
sumes. The steel sphere at
Dounreay is larger than the
dome of St. Paul’s Cathedral
in London.
The £3350-million pro-
gramme for atonuc power in
Britain will be described in
the display.
The exhibition will show the
extensive studies devoted to the
effects of radioactivity on the
health of the individual and
also the application of radio-
active isotopes in beneficial
techniques in medicine, agri-
culture, and industry generally.
Britain’s achievement in the
use of radioactive isotopes has
been so successful that the
United Kingdom atomic-
energy industry now exports
more of these tracer-elements
than all the other countries of
the world combined. The
exhibition is planned to present
“atomic energy” in a simple
and direct way to provide
general as well as technical
interest.
Just eleven years after start-
ing from scratch, Britain was,
this summer, in a position to
make the announcement about
exporting almost anything
required for an atomic-energy
undertaking.
Nearly 500 firms are known
to be concerned in atomic-
energy development, every
aspect of which has present or
future interest. The latest
British success was the
announcement that Britain
would supply the uranium fuel
for Norway’s first atomic
reactor.
Export of atomic-energy
material, from reactors to
radio-isotopes, is by no means
the whole account. Britain
takes part and it. is in a
commanding position to do so
—in almost every international
atomic-energy conference in the
free world.
Its experts are at the dis-
posal of any country which
may wish to gain by their
knowledge and experience, and
so are its training-schools.
Orders for nuclear plants or
research-reactors have been
placed, or are actively
under negotiation, in Germany,
Italy and Japan, as well as
Australia.
The first experimental reactor
to be exported from Britain is
the 10,0()0KW plant erected
near Sydney ; more than 30
scientists worked at Harwell
on the design, and a British
firm supplied the complete
.nudeowe instrumentation and
control circuitry for it.
Germany has already ordered
a £ 100,000 Merlin-type
research - reactor from a
British firm. (Another Merlin-
“swimming-pool” reactor is
under construction at Alder-
maston, and will be completed
before the winter.)
In addition, it is constructing,
near Cologne, a £2-million
British Dido, a high-flux
heavy-water research-reactor
which is also designed for radio-
isotope production. At the
same time the German sub-
sidiary of a British firm is
planning to build an atomic
reactor at Oberhausen to pro-
vide heat for industry and
housing.
Japan is expected to buy a
Calder Hall type of power-
reactor of 140 MW capacity at
a cost of £l5 million, as also is
Italy. Denmark has given a
British firm a contract for a
Pluto (heavy-water) research-
reactor, similar to those under
construction at Harwell and
Dounreay. Here the U.K.
Atomic Energy Authority will
supply the necessary enriched
fuel-element.
By the end of next year
U.K. manufacturers expect
that they will have received
orders from abroad worth
between £l7O and £195 million
for atomic-power plant. By
1960, orders should be worth
more than £3OO million, and
these are expected to exceed
£5OO million by 1965.
Aside from actual reactors or
nuclear-power plants, Britain
is the world’s largest exporter
of radio-isotopes for industry,
agriculture and medicine. In
the year to September, 1956,
U.K. radio-isotope production
reached the record figure of
22,069, 37 per cent, of the
total number of consignments
being exported. Forty-seven
countries bought, including
Germany, France, Sweden,
Japan and Rumania.
In the year to last March, the
proportion for export, now to
52 countries, rose to 56 per
cent.
There are agreements with
the United States. General
information is being ex-
changed ; and firms of the two
countries are co-operating in
the designing and building of
nuclear plant in Common-
wealth and other countries.
A 10-year atomic-energy
pact with Belgium has been
signed, one sequel being that
British atomic industry is to
give handsome support for
U.K. participation in next
year’s Brussels International
Exhibition.
Britain and South Africa
concluded an atomic-energy
pact in July, and Spain is
greatly interested in Britain’s
atomic progress.
Finally there is the part
played by leading British
experts in international con-
ferences on atomic energy.
Sir John Cockcroft will be
chairman of the Paris con-
ference on radio-isotopes this
month; and he is the U.K.
member of a seven-nation
advisory committee which has
agreed on a provisional agenda
for the second International
Conference on the Peaceful
Uses of Atomic Energy to be
held in Geneva next year.
Sir Ben Lockspeiser is presi-
dent of the Council of the
European Organisation for
Nuclear Research (0.E.R.N.)
and Britain is expected to take
an active part in research con-
tributions to the International
Atomic Energy Agency, which
has now come into force.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WAR AND WEAPONS
AS changing weapons bring
changing strategies, the
common, though by no means
universal, prediction at the
moment is that future wars will
probably take one of two
forms: big, total and thermo-
nuclear, or very small, local
and conventional.
This, comments London
“Daily Telegraph,” means that,
“since major wars will be
fought with nuclear weapons
only three Powers today are in
a position to wage them”:
“But it is much less widely
understood that since local wars
must now be kept as restricted
as possible they can safely be
waged only by the small
Powers. While, therefore, the
great Powers more and more
monopolise the thermonuclear
field, they are at the same time
less and less willing to
monopolise local tactical
responsibilities. The H-bomb
age, in short, while absolving
small Powers from thermo-
nuclear defence planning, has
placed upon their shoulders far
more responsibility in local
defence planning.
“How does this affect the
organisation of Commonwealth
defence? The broad principles
are now clear. Britain and the
United States between them
provide the thermonuclear
umbrella, and the white
Commonwealth countries them-
selves increasingly undertake to
meet the needs of conventional
and local war. This, at least, is
the British aim.
“The difficulty is that Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, both
countries with small popula-
tions and expanding economies
hungry for manpower, can ill
afford large standing armies.
However sympathetic Aus-
tralian and New Zealand
Ministers may be to the new
needs of Imperial defence, they
cannot ignore the political
difficulties involved. Progress,
therefore, cannot be anything
but slow.”
Also commenting on two
kinds of war, and new strategies
developing with new weapons,
“New York Times” notes that,
“until recently, Western, in
particular American, military
thinking had been dominated
by the concept that we must
have the greatest possible
military force deployed along
the danger lines to meet a first
attack, and that this force must
be backed up by strategic air-
forces capable of ‘massive
retaliation’ with our biggest
atomic and hydrogen-bombs.
The idea behind this concept
was to deter aggression if
possible, and to win a war
against it if necessary.”
The merit of this strategy,
the “N. Y. Times” adds, is “that
it has worked thus far” :
“Despite periods of high
international tension, it has
prevented a major conflict, and
no possible revision can ever
—London “Daily Express"
"WE SHALL FIGHT THEM ON THE BOURSES, IN THE BANKS, AND IN THE
CASINOS. WE SHALL NEVER SURRENDER
eliminate ‘massive retaliation’
as the final and most effective
weapon of both deterrence, and,
if need be, of victory. The
nightmare menace of the
hydrogen-bomb is still the best
guarantee of world peace.
“Now, however, science is
developing new weapons which
tend to reduce the danger of
any armed conflict turning into
a wo rid-wide disaster. It
thereby permits, as an alter-
native to ‘massive retaliation,’
a more flexible strategy which
can take into account the
possibility of having to fight
limited ‘little’ wars in order to
avert the greater catastrophe.
This new alternative strategy,
which would limit war rather
than arms, has been approved
by both President Eisenhower
and the ‘National Security
Council, and the Whole military
set-up is now being adjusted
accordingly.
“The new arms’aie the small,
tactical atomic and nuclear
weapons which pass out of the
category of ‘weapons of mass
destruction’ and can be
employed against primarily
military targets for strictly
limited military purposes. They
thus become a new kind of artil-
lery irrespective of whether they
are delivered by cannon, air-
craft or guided-missiles. In
that sense they are becoming
‘conventional’ weapons for a
limited but still nuclear war
for strictly limited objectives.
But being nuclear, they also add
so much to fire-power that not
only the units handling them
but the whole armed force are
held capable of substantial
manpower reduction without
impairing our [U.S.] defence
posture.”
As a result of these new
concepts of war and of
pressure “to prevent military
spending from bursting through
the budgetary ceilings”—
London “Economist’s”
American Survey notes that “a
stream of decisions or predic-
tions of decisions has been
pouring from the [U.S.]
Defence Department in an
attempt to cut costs without in-
flaming the chronic conflicts
between the .Services.” A
“shotgun wedding” is to be
arranged between the Jupiter,
the Army’s version of the inter-
mediate-range ballistic missile,
a ' i]? e r Force s candidate,
the Thor—the most successful
component of each being incor-
poiated in the standard
weapon.
“Seventy - nine ships have
been laid up. The last of the
B-36’s, the original super-
bombers which the Navy once
described as ‘billion - dollar
blunders,’ has been scrapped.
Deliveries of the Air Force’s
newest pride and joy, the B-58
bomber, and its latest aerial
tanker have been postponed.
Civilian employees have been
laid off in arsenals, shipyards
and supply installations, with a
pointed ‘request’ to private air-
craft contractors to reduce
their payrolls also to cut down
their soaring costs; the only
manufacturers to be exempted
are those working on missiles
and electronic systems.”
Meanwhile, the same survey
adds, “the need for hard think-
ing about doctrine has been
dramatised by the very con-
siderable impact of a prolix
and at times rather obtuse, but
nevertheless most ingenious and
thought - provoking, book,
Nuclear Weapons and Foreign
Policy, by Dr. Henry Kissinger.
“The book is being eagerly
read and discussed by policy-
makers in Washington” and
“has already provoked an
extended reply from Professor
James King, of Johns Hopkins
University, in the pages of the
‘New Republic’ magazine.
“Basically, the discussion
stems from the realisation that
the United States has become
committed to using nuclear
weapons of some sort in limited
as well as in all-out wars. Dr.
Kissinger welcomes this,
because he thinks it will be of
advantage to the West, while
Dr. King does not.
“Both of them feel, quite
rightjy, that the military and
political implications of limited
warfare, whether nuclear or
conventional, have not been
fully worked out, or explained
to the American public. Both
of them think that a doctrine
of limited warfare, provided it
was thought out in advance and
provided there could be tacit or
actual agreement with the
Russians, could be applied in a
conflict between the great


NOTHING EQUALS
RB Warmray's Amazing Efficiency fl|
warmra y
TRIPLE-PURPOSE, SLOW-COMBUSTION,
AIR-CONDITIONING HOME HEATER
m
mm
! <■
Model No. 3
Super De Luxe
•fa Large Capacity
Over 8,000
on, ft.
Special large
firebox for long
burning without
attention.
JL Extra large
hotplate for
cooking.
Installs in Rooms
toith or without
Fireplaces.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray"
ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING
Model No. 2A
4r Heats ®v # r 5,000
cu. ft.
•fc Modern artlstio
cream porcelain
enamel on solid oas*
iron,
■fc Ho dirty fireplaces
to clean.
fa Full vlaw of blazing
Are through open
or closed front.
fa Lights in seconds
warms entire room
In minutes.
fa No smoke or dust to
soil furnishings.
★ Reduces fuel Mil at least 75 per cent.
Your appraciationof Vto™^
and tUe worlds <g»«ggW j ;
4 most imitate tiOHEHtATER : :
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL—REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
tiWRSI
i
WAkMkAT
HEATING
TUBES
The secret «t Warmray'# Amazing Effieleney Is
the Patented Heating Tabes (illustrated above),
which are built into the firebox. The air In the
room passes through these tubes continuously,
thus maintaining an even warmth in every part
of the room.
Jl- BURNS ALL SOLID FUELS
WOOD IS CLEANEST.
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
BUT NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturer* and Wholesale Distributors,
Challls House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: “Warmray.” BL JSIT.
If unobtainable locally, phone, write or call
for illustrated Brochure and name of nearest
agents.
Powers as well as in a ‘brush-
fire’ situation.
“They differ in that Dr. Kiss-
inger wants the distinction to
be between limited and all-out
use of nuclear weapons, while
Dr. King feels there are so
many gradations between the
types and the uses of nuclear
Weapons that the only possible
clear-cut division is between
nuclear and conventional arms.
“Some official speeches con-
tinue to stress that American
forces are ‘dual purpose’ and
that the United States is not
going to be trapped into a
choice between using nuclear
force or backing down. It is
Dr. Kissinger’s thesis that the
United States should* cease this
coyness about its intentions,
and that its diplomatic efforts
should be directed to breaking-
down the exaggerated idea of
the differences in awfulness
between nuclear and other
weapons. He thinks this could
be done provided there was
mutual understanding between
East and West that the use of
the nuclear weapons would be
exclusively tactical and that the
aims of the war were a diplo-
matic solution which did not
involve unconditional sur-
render by either side. Thus,
stumbling into a local war
would not spell the suicide of
civilisation.
“Dr. King, on the other
hand, holds that, once nuclear
weapons are used at all, the
stakes are so high that in the
confusion of battle miscalcula-
tions about the other side’s
intentions are exceedingly
probable. Dr. King therefore
argues for an attempt to keep
warfare conventional, main-
taining that the ever-present
fear of a switch to nuclear
weapons would oblige both
sides to limit any war.”
Cutting rather sharply across
the foregoing theoretical dis-
cussions, Marshal Vassilevsky,
noted elsewhere by the
“Economist,” “has come into
the limelight with an article in
the Soviet Army paper.”
Russia’s First Deputy Minister
of Defence, V assilevsky
“attacks violently an article by
Admiral Burke, the United
States chief of naval operations,
which apparently suggested that
the United States could destroy
Russia, whatever Russia might
do in the first phase of a war.
“Marshal Vassilevsky asks
rhetorically whether the
Admiral’s ideas about an easy,
distant war —‘which would
make any intelligent lieutenant
blush’—are the result of irre-
sponsibility or ignorance? How,
he asks, can the American
intelligence Services keep their
superiors in such oblivion of
Russia’s power of retaliation?
“The basis of Vassilevsky’s
argument is that it is now an
illusion to think in terms of
‘small’ or ‘limited’ wars in
which the ultimate weapons
will not be used. ‘ln a future
war,’ he argues, ‘one must
expect the existing means of
destruction to be used to the
full.’ He also dismisses the
idea of maritime supremacy.
The American fleet would
come under the fire of Soviet
submarines, rockets and
bombers. In any case it could
not protect the United States.
The Soviet Union, in his
opinion, has the guided and
nuclear weapons to strike at the
enemy’s nerve-centres, how-
ever distant they may be.
“At one stage the Russians
maintained that the next war
would spell the ‘doom of
capitalism’ only. Marshal
Vassilevsky has no such illu-
sions ; he treats a future war
as a threat to the whole of
mankind. His article, like
previous Soviet pronounce-
ments on this subject, ends with
a plea for an absolute prohibi-
tion of nuclear weapons. But
his warning is couched in more
specific and harsher terms than
had been used before.”
British Farmers
Two reasons why, in the
opinion of “Manchester
Guardian,” the U.K. Govern-
ment should reconsider its
annual expenditure of £250
million “on subsidising farmers’
incomes”:
“First, there is the new out-
look on defence. Once granted
that no protection against
nuclear weapons is possible, it
no longer makes sense to plan
in terms of a long war under
siege conditions. The impli-
cations of this are only now
beginning to penetrate. But
among them surely is that the
so-called strategic case for sub-
sidising agriculture fails. In
the past it was proper to say
that special support for agri-
culture was justified as an
insurance against the interrup-
tion of supplies in war ; that
argument no longer holds with
anything like the same force.”
Second, “insistence on pro-
tecting the British farmer looks
like becoming a major obstacle
to the creation of a European
free-trade area. The Govern-
ment says that it favors
abolishing tariff - barriers in
Europe, but only for industrial
goods; food and tobacco, it
says, must be kept out of the
arrangements. The trouble


PRESSURISE
Your Domestic Water Supply
i £
Hi
BATHROOMS,
KITCHENS,
GARDENS, etc., all
can be given water at
20 to 1001 b. pressure.
Also ideal for other
purposes where a pres-
surised water supply is
an advantage.
The AJAX Type A 2
outfit illustrated is
proved and com-
pletely reliable.
To install it is only
necessary to attach the
suction pipe to the
pump. and plug in the
electric lead.
Components comprise the famous AJAX A 2 Self Oiling Plunger Pump*
thriven by a 1 H.P. electric Motor with Thermal overloads. A 36 by
18 inch Galvanised all-welded Steel Pressure Cylinder tested to lOOlbs.
Cylinder walls are 3/16in. with |in. end plates.
Mounted on steel base plate. Other fittings include Pressure Switch, Air
Volume control, Relief Valve, Air Snifter Valve, Check Valve, Pipe
fittmgs, Vee belt, etc. Capacity of unit is 420 gallons per hour. Price
£215 (nett.) F.O.R. Melbourne. Crate £2 extra. Sales Tax (124 per cent,
jf applicable).
Send for your post free copy of the Ajax Pump Catalogue .
tersons
It 4.
546-566 Collins Street, Melbourne, and at Sydney,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
with this is that for a number
of Continental countries the
chief attraction of a free-trade
area would be the chance to
increase sales of farm produce.
Unless they are promised
greater scope for this they may
well decide to back out
altogether.”
While there are good reasons
for helping British farmers to
some extent stable prices
make for improved efficiency ;
a certain volume of local food
output is an insurance against
a sharp rise in import costs ;
and a prosperous agricultural
community helps to stem the
drift to the cities—the question
is: to what extent?
The present system, the
“Manchester Guardian” adds,
“does not simply guarantee
prices ; it also aims to provide
farmers with a minimum
income”:
“It is hard to find any con-
vincing reason why this should
be continued. For one thing,
it is extremely wasteful ; two-
thirds of the subsidies that are
paid find their way into the
pockets of farmers who are
considerably more prosperous
than the average wage- or
salary-earner. What is needed
is a radical change of approach.
The aim should be to fix
minimum prices . which the
Government wmuld pay only
in the last resort —if there were
a flood of cheap imports and
the bottom fell out of the
market.
“Any additional assistance
for agriculture should be by
way of special grants designed
mainly to improve efficiency,
but also to preserve small
ILLINGWORTH, IN LONDON "DAILY MAIL.”
farms which are on the margin
of economic existence. Given
this, there is no reason to think
that agriculture would contract
unduly ; certainly the best
British farms can well stand
up on their own.”
U.K. Air Defence
Publication of Britain’s Air
■Survival, by Sir Roy Fedden—
“a man who should know” and
who states categorically “that
Britain will cease to be a major
Power within 15 years unless a
workable blueprint is drawn up
lor military and civil air
development’’ (London “Daily
Telegraph”)—has produced a
fresh round of press criticism
of U.K. aircraft and missile
programmes.
Disappointment over the un-
successful Swift fighter -
“Orders for the Swift fighter
plane, which cost the country
£4O million, were kept up for
a year after it was known that
the plane was a failure”
(London “Daily Mirror”) —has
already been widely expressed ;
the latest criticism is directed at
the Fireflash, the “Daily
Mirror” noting again that
“Britain’s first air-to-air guided-
missile, the Fireflash, has been
turned down —except for train-
ing. It cost £15,000,000.”
London “Daily Telegraph,”
however, sees no cause for
“great alarm or despondency
about the Air Ministry’s
decision not to proceed with
Fireflash”:
“This [guided-missiles] is a
field in which new develop-
ments take place quickly, and
it is difficult to strike a balance
between putting a not-so-good
weapon into immediate mass-
production, and waiting in-
definitely for something better.
Once fired, Fireflash depends
for its direction on the nose
of the fighter, which has to be
kept on the target. This means
that the pilot will not be able
to take evasive action immedi-
ately after having fired his
missile.”
Therefore, the paper adds, a
valid reason for the Air
Ministry's decision “lies in the
potentialities of Firestreak,
which is now undergoing its
acceptance trials. Firestreak
will not depend on the fighter's
nose for its direction, but will
have its own homing device.
Indeed, the latest modifications
of Firestreak may make it con-
siderably preferable to Fire-
flash. If that is so, and if the
present delay is not unduly
prolonged, the Air Ministry will
have been justified.”
U.S. Foreign Aid
London “Time and Tide”
comment on the tightening U.S.
attitude towards foreign aid:
“There can be no doubt that
the lavish ladling out of dollars
to foreign countries is now


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.—In Divorce.
TO IVY MAY DOBSON late of 266
Richardson Street, Middle Park, Mel-
bourne, Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE that
GEORGE WILLIAM JOHN DOBSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce-No. 430
of 1957 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and is asking for the euer-
cise of the Court’s discretion under
Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Register Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Fourteenth day of
October 1957 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from ANTHONY
MARKHAM & BAYNE GEIKIE, Soli-
citors, of Warwick House, George Street,
Liverpool; or their Sydney Agents,
HILLIARD & BERRY, Solicitors, 17
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.— J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
„ f iiiiiSiiUXiWiitiitZ '»' * ;' /
m
Him
nit
(111
arn?'s
SEtrr
I /
I'l B„M ‘II IL
fa
f xmu/m
i s-sns
“cj / /,7i
•MmniJ
&SZjeBr
\ y m
Pay Day
KSS
SSSBS
*vs
ss?
V
?< V>ssir'
(J®
-A
Pay DAY is a busy day for the Bank. Money flows out for
the payment of wages, bills and commitments of every kind;
thousands of customers in every walk of life transact business
at Head Office or at one of the many branches of the Bank;
but to wise families Pay Day has another meaning. It is the
day which gives them the opportunity to add to their savings.
The C.B.C. SAYINGS BANK
offers every member of your family
a simple means of making money
grow.
‘
Open a C. B, C, savings
account at any branch of
the Bank next Bay Bay .
Deposits in the C.B.C. Savings
Bank are guaranteed by the parent
Company.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
deeply unpopular among
ordinary Americans. Most of
them may simply be tired of
paying taxes and getting noth-
ing in return, not even grati-
tude ; but there are also some
extremely intelligent and well-
informed opponents of foreign
aid who disapprove of it
precisely because they are inter-
nationalists. They are not in
the least surprised that aid to
the underdeveloped countries
creates resentment.
“The Americans who
administer foreign aid on the
spot naturally live by American
standards and by doing so they
bring a practical and painful
illustration of the enormous
gap between American wealth
and Eastern poverty. A minor
American official enjoying all
modern amenities, including a
car driven by a native, may
think he is doing a good and
beneficent job, but to people
who are still living in extreme
poverty and squalor it may
look very different. Neurotically
sensitive, they can easily put
down to purse-proud arrogance
what is only an unconscious
manifestation of the famous
American way of fife.
“American liberal economists
have another objection to
foreign aid. If the object of
foreign aid is enlightened self-
interest, as the President has
often said, they ask if enlight-
ened self-interest is served by
prompting a socialised
economy. If Americans believe
that free enterprise is the only
i basis for a free civilisation,
I where is the sense in subsidis-
ing a Statist economy by
| Government - to - Government
grants, when such grants are
laying the foundations not of
a capitalist but of a Com-
munist society? These critics
are quite convinced that foreign
aid is playing straight into Mr.
Khrushchev’s hands. Their view
is fast gathering support, which
will not make things easier for
Mr. Nehru.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Labor-party Control
There is a tendency in many
quarters, particularly among
members and ex-members of
the Australian Labor Party, to
blame Dr. Evatt for the plight
in which the party finds itself
today. Yet neither Dr. Evatt
nor any other individual could
arrest the decay which has
been going on within the
Labor party for the past 30
years—at least the Doc. has
tried to deal with some of the
causes of that decay.
The Labor party was
founded in the first place by
idealists, intellectuals and the
first stalwarts of the trade-
union movement, then in its
infancy. Today, in Queens-
land (and in other States), the
trade-unions have absolute con-
trol of the A.L.P.; the idealists,
the intellectuals and even the
politicians having been ousted
from any position of authority
within the party. The trade-
union controllers will not
tolerate any Parliamentarian
unless he bows the knee ; the
electors, now that they are
realising the true .position, will
not vote for such candidates.
How, then, can the Australian
Labor Party survive?
The acquisition of absolute
control by the trade-unions has
been _a gradual process, so
gradual that only recently
have the union bosses in
Queensland felt themselves
strong enough to exercise that
control to its full extent —with
disastrous consequences to the
Parliamentary section of the
party.
The triennial convention of
the A.L.P. is, according to the
rules of the party, the ultimate
authority within the party, and
Labor leaders claim that dele-
gates to convention are demo-
cratically elected. In practice
this is not so. In Queensland
there are 75 electoral delegates
to the convention, one from
each State electorate. In addi-
tion to - these, the affiliated
unions appoint delegates
according to their numerical
strength, and the union dele-
gates now almost equal the
electoral delegates. Not only
that, but in the appointment of
the electoral . delegates, each
member of an affiliated union
in the electorate is entitled to
a vote, whether he is actually
a member of an A.L.P. branch
or not. In selecting the union
delegates, unionists of course
vote again, so that trade-
unionists have two votes each
in the election of convention
delegates as against one vote
each by A.L.P. members who
are not also members of an
industrial union. What chance
has the idealist, the intellectual,
the small farmer or storekeeper
with Labor leanings under
those conditions?
The convention itself then
elects 11 delegates to the
“Bob down , Bertha — you’re spotted !”
Queensland Central Executive,
which is the controlling body
in between conventions. The
State Parliamentary Labor
Party, which must represent
approximately 50 per cent, of
all electors if it is to govern the
State, is allowed to elect one
delegate only to the Q.C.E., and
the Federal Parliamentary
Labor Party also has one repre-
sentative. The unions then
elect delegates direct to the
Q.C.E., again on a basis pro-
portionate to their membership,
and at the time of the expul-
sion of the Premier of the State
in April last there was a total
of 55 members of the Q.C.E.
elected direct by the unions as
against a total of 13 from the
convention and the Parlia-
mentary section of the party.
There is also a rule of the party
which lays it down that in
no circumstances must the
Q.C.E. consist of a majority of
members of the State Parlia-
me T nt * .. - , ,
In the printed rules of the
Australian Labor Party (State
of Queensland) there is a
clause which it is to be hoped
is unique m such publications.
ft 1S not a rule, but is pub-
fished as a footnote to Rule
32, and this is its wording: •
.Decision of 1956 Convention:
Rigid disciplinary measures shall be
taken by the Queensland Central
Executive against any member ot
the party who, by word or deed,
does anything not in strict con-
formity with the party’s objective
and platform, or does anything
which would be detrimental to the
interests of the party.
Rule 32 itself empowers the
Q.C.E. “to interpret the planks
of the platform or any of these
rules or any resolutions or
decisions of convention which
may at any time be in dispute
and to expel from membership
of the party any member who
refuses to abide by such inter*
pretation and/or decision.”
While the central executive is
appointed on present basis
and continues to interpret the
rules of the party in the way it
has done lately, there is small
chance of the A.L.P. being
returned to office in Queens-
land,.or in the Commonwealth,
and that applies whether Dr.
Evatt or anybody else is the
Parliamentary leader in the
Federal sphere. In fact, by
criticising Dr. Evatt, Labor
members are diverting atten-
tion from the basic causes of
the decline and fall of the
Australian Labor Party and
delaying the action that must
be taken if anything worth
while is to arise, from the ashes.
—W. M. (QJ.
Third-party Insurance
Once again the N. S. Wales
motorist is threatened with a
substantial rise in compulsory
third - party insurance pre-
miums. It used to cost the
motorist £1 Bs. a year, but today
it j s mo re than five times that
amount. The reason given is
that the State Government
Insurance Office has again
h c„hstnntial 1n««
snown a substantial loss.
Surely the time has arrived
to place some sort of limit on
the amount that a im*v pan
f" e f! U \ Can
award to a claimant. The scale
of Service pensions might be a
useful guide.
It would be better to limit the
amount for which a motorist
could cover himself—say, £5OOO
—making the guilty driver
responsible for any additional
amount that a jury might
award. This would make
motorists realise that they still
had a financial responsibility. —
T. T. N. (N.S.W.).
Unfair Trading?
Westralian magistrate W. J.
Wallwork has been a busy man
in his new capacity of Unfair
Trading and Profit Control
Commissioner. His carte
blanche investigatory access to
any business concern’s affairs
has some people in the West
very worried —not that they are
necessarily profiteers; they
simply feel that to be investi-
gated will leave an ineradicable
stigma.
Opponents of Premier
Hawke’s Labor Government
are protesting, too, that the
very existence of such a
commissioner militates against


the Government’s drive to have
more industries established in
the State.
One of the first businesses
in Wall work’s sights was the
Cockburn Cement and Swan
Portland Cement arrangement
which was regarded as creating
a monopoly. Cockburn
Cement unsuccessfully fought
in W.A. courts and in the High
Court to loosen Wallwork’s
grip, pleading that they hadn’t
raised the price of cement to
the public. But the commis-
sioner is to proceed because a
monopoly has been set up.
The Retail Grocers’ Associa-
tion has just enlisted the
commissioner’s aid; it is
perturbed at the dire effect of
ffce growth of “supermarts”
and self-services in Perth and
suburbs on the small grocer.
The small men are in danger of
being wiped out, as the supers
buy in such large quantities,
receive discounts and put out a
good proportion of their wares
cheaper than the small man can
buy them.
The commissioner will
examine the super’s motives in
selling at low prices. Do they
aim to wipe out the small
corner stores and then, with the
field to themselves, gradually
raise prices? Or is it a war of
attrition between the three or
four big buying combines?
Can the little man survive (his
goodwill has already vanished)
in the hope that the big
combines will overreach them-
selves?
The Retail Grocers’ Associa-
“An so crook this mornin' I don't know which
Way to turn."
tion feels that many more small
traders will be bankrupt before
Wallwork ties up all the ends,
but it is consoled to know that
he is on the job.— Wilkie
(W.A.).
Hearing Aids
One of the benefits from the
last war of particular value
to me and many others is
electronic aid to the hard of
hearing. Developments in wire-
less have made it possible for'
sound-engineers to produce an
aid of remarkable power.
I was afflicted with deafness
when 10 years old, slight at
first but progressively worse
as the years passed. .All manner
of remedies were tried. The old
wives’ cures were useless; a
hearing-horn concealed in a cap
with rubber tubes leading to
each ear was discarded ; an
ear-trumpet, the popular aid
then, was of no use to a boy
in the bush ; a queer-shaped
contraption—a sounding-board
to be held in the teeth—-was
another unsuccessful experi-
ment.
Years later came the carbon
hearing-aids, operating on the
same principle as the telephone
transmitter. The good ones
were of some value in certain
types of deafness. Then came
the wireless-valve aid, and at
last a new world opened to the
deaf. The only drawback was
the weight and the constant
replacement of batteries, cost-
ing a fair sum over the year.
Finally came the transistor aid,
which is all that can be required
by a deaf person—although, of
course, there are certain types
of deafness no aid can help.
The transistor aid is small, light
and cheap to run.
There is a large fly in the
ointment, however. The prices
of the aids today call for some
explanation. They range from
£4O 19s. to over £lOO. This has
me puzzled, because a portable
transistor-wireless can be had
for £4O. It would seem that
price is governed by one’s
necessity either pay up or
continue to be a lonely person
in the crowd and a nuisance to
friends and family.
Deaf people do not have so
many opportunities as others to
succeed financially in life, and
the cost of an aid is a matter
of considerable importance.—
Tim (Vic.).
Coal
A new £500,000 polystyrene
plant is being built in N. S."
Wales by C.S.R. Chemicals
Pty., to produce polystyrene
plastics materials.
The Australian coal-industry,
which is in a bad enough way
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 451
Across
I—Kcik1 —Kcik recoil of a gun what is touched fiy him who shouts
a footballer. (8)
s—Behaved5 —Behaved like a mustang editor after money. (6)
10 — Cereal for a sweet strike by one with love to the
chartered accountant. (7)
11— Leave out backing your correspondent of St. Paul. (7)
12— One quack is enough for a Welsh hero. (5)
13 —African city where 11-across, 5-
across, 2. down. (8)
15 —Recover trom drinking blubber,
and turn pure. (5, 2)
18 —Russian Parliament’s novelist.
(5)
20 — Sneer not entirely concealed by
eagles. (5)
21 — The wrong devour the East when
behind schedule. (7)
22 Confess a thousand can be found
in an opening of a mine-shaft.
(5)
23 — Australian soldiers, coming back,
encountered with an expression
of gratitude a “Gondoliers”
girl. (8)
27 —King of Lotharingia with plenty
tresses. (7)
29 — Excite love and therefore
change our name. (7)
30 — Part of the atom unopposed to
weight. (6)
31 — Emphasises the South hair. (8)
Down
1— A little cat arouses seabirds. (10)
2 A capital French one between
100 and 500 is rugged. (11)
3 Behaves like wind punches. (5)
4 See the mad acquaintance of
Alice fight gossip. (10)
6 Not yet in form. (9)
7 Carson equipment. (3)
8— Doris's 500 affirmations. (4)
9 Check stalk. (4)
14 —‘Stormy Sydney suburb and an
artless successor of the Tudors
ring us. (11)
16— Arts graduates can fuss, because
of the whip. (9)
17 — I’d interrupt the present White
House incumbent. (9)
19 —Laurel state’s state brothers like
Lippi and Angelico. (9)
24 — Famous English left-hand bat has
lemonade (according to the
lemon’s autobiography). (5)
25 — Strike upset cobbers. (4)
26 Fish in early days.
(3)
28 —Brace. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 450


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Auitmli*a
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
etch week
—even though, in some
measure, this is its own fault —
could well expect to benefit
from a new industry like this ;
but apparently it will not.
For the stage of processing
the raw materials (coal and oil)
in the production of poly-
styrene is to be done overseas.
It would surely have been
possible, and would have been
much better, for this process
to have been done in Australia,
with Australian coal. In this
connection a chemical plant
somewhere on the N.S.W. coal-
fields would greatly help to
keep such communities pros-
perous.
As regards coal in general, it
is, of course, an inevitable
modern, progressive trend for
industry to abandon coal for oil
and, later, for atomic power. In
recent years many industries
have switched to diesel-power
—not so much because of
coal-strikes, but because, in the
main, coal-production, though
a record, couldn’t satisfy
industry’s demand. Now, with
resultant lessened demand for
coal, the mining industry has
struck trouble.
Reliance on oil, however, is
at present most unwise, in
view of the unsettled Middle
East, cost of transport of oil
to Australia, etc. For some
time to come, at least, Aus-
tralian industry should favor
coal for its power-supply.
Where possible, a return to
coal of those industries which
have- forsaken it would be
desirable'.—K. R. (N.S.W.)r
Outback Roads
In Queensland today the out-
back man has two particular
bugbears—local-authority rates
and motor-car taxes. A
selector who leases land from
the Government rarely com-
plains about rent; the spear-
point of his attack is directed
at high local-authority rates.
Need shire councils be such
expensive community neces-
sities?
Motor-car taxes, ever on the
up-grade, are a sore point with
“little” men on the land—and
if anyone wants to argue that
there are now no “little” men on
the land let him make a tour
of some of the dairyfarms in
this district, where some
families are living in what can
only be described as shanties.
To such as these a car is
a necessity for getting into
market and so forth. If they
got something out of high
registration-fees—if the money
went eventually towards
improving roads —there would
be some compensation. But
main-road activities hardly
extend to outback selections,
and the farmers must go on
shaking their insides in their
old rattletraps, the possession
of which is an ever-increasing
liability.
"The fellow in the city who
sails around on bitumen roads
has little to complain about
car-taxes in comparison with
his brother in the bush who has
to spend hours under his
“bomb” trying to remedy
damage caused by the pot-holps
and bumps that constitute his
roads. —S. C. C. (Q.),
Children on Roads
Safety - first lectures to
children by policemen (B.
28 /8 / ’57) are now supple-
mented in Victoria by the
actual practice of traffic rules
and courtesies. In more than
one Melbourne suburb, young-
sters owning any transport
from billy-carts and scooters
to pushbikes are directed by
patient constables over a maze
of curved and intersecting con-
crete paths on land set aside for
the purpose.
If these tfaflic schools save
only a few lives annually, the
cost has been more than justi-
fied. Victoria’s police depart-
ment has wisely realised that
the lectures, to be fully effective,
must be supported by practical
demonstration. —Arthur Falk
(Vic.).
Third-party Insurance
The statement (B. 17/7/’57)
that Victorian motorists pay
£ll for third-party insurance is
not correct. The rates are
private/city, £9 2s. ; business/
city, £lO 17s. 6d.; and private/
country, £4 7s. 6d. —J. P. (Vic.).
Postmen
I miss the old postmen who,
by their astuteness, public-
spiritedness and skill, un-
ravelled freak addresses and
went to no end of trouble to
see that the mail always got
through.
At one time, illegible writing,
mutilated and vague addresses
—sometimes none at all-
stirred the ingenuity of post-
men, and the extraction of clues
was only matched by the per-
severance with which each one
was thrashed out to the limit.
Not until this had been done
was the job given up as hope-
less.
So renowned was the old-time
postman for his enthusiasm
and diligence that, in sporting
challenge, an artist in a Sydney
suburb used to send out an
occasional letter with the
address put in the form of
a picture-puzzle. It was a
tribute to the skill of both
parties that all of those letters
were delivered, 'and without
delay:
These days, if the address is
not accurate and precise in
every detail, it is fired back to
the sender, even when it is
plainly apparent for whom the
letter is intended. Many of
the rejections are totally un-
justified and sometimes seem to
be actuated by a type of
cussedness. How else explains
the non-delivery of a letter
because the name “Stevens”
was used instead of “Stephens,”
or “Maine” instead of
“Mayne”? In the same category
is the turning back of a letter
addressed to the secretary of a
well-known sporting organisa-
tion because the post-office
box-number was not quoted.
And, as an outstanding
example, there was the letter
addressed to “No. 22” in a
certain street being flung back
at the sender with the endorse-
ment “Try No. 21.” —J.
Mcßon (N.S.W.).
Minority Rile
The movement towards ex-
tended retail shopping-hours
is spreading like a rash
throughout Melbourne and
suburbs. Unlike most infec-
tions, it will be welcomed by
nearly every section of the
community, not only because
people want the opportunity to
shop outside the present
restricted hours but because
this movement represents an
overdue revolt against the
tyranny of union bureaucracy.
No one disputes the right of
Government to intervene in
matters of trade when such
intervention is necessary to
protect some group from unfair
exploitation. On the other
hand, few can see that extended
shopping-hours must inevitably
involve the serfdom of shop-
assistants. Even the assistants
themselves can’t see that.
Yet even if it could be shown
that a majority of shop-
assistants were opposed to any
alteration of shopping-hours
what right have they to dictate
to their brethren with different
ideas? More important still,
what right has any Government
to dictate closing-hours to the
one-man or family business?
There is no violation of social
interests involved in extended
shopping-hours. Let the cash-
registers decide whether the
new hours are justified.—FiAr
Justitia (Vic.).


Larges! Australian Coy
Conducting all classes of
fire,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
Circular Charts for all types
of Recording Instrument*
for any dan of Michintif
or Equipment
METER CHARTS • Specialty
ACCURACY GUARANTEED
O’SULLIVAN P4l«
JAC
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Sulscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. .. .months’ subscription to "The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
\
British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign .... £3/®/*
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Bos 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
his staff to conference and said:
“We know that the Army is
preparing another campaign to
drive out Rommel. But we
know our Army, don’t we?
We know they have an un-
fortunate tendency to mess-up
their gears, and go in reverse
instead of forward. So, to be
ready for any emergency, I
want you to prepare a plan of
retreat.”
Away went the staff and
prepared the plan, preparing it
in such detail as to designate
the officers who were to carry
out specific jobs. When it was
ready, Mary passed the plan
on to the unit commanders with
instructions to study it and
then lock it away in the safe.
Rommel opened the battle in
May. So conscious had he
become of the Desert Air Force
that, in the two. weeks prior to
the battle, the Luftwaffe did its
utmost to wipe out D.A.F.
Every night and all night the
Luftwaffe bombed the airfields,
but D.A.F. took little notice.
The aircrews were sent each
night to camps on the beach
so that they could have uninter-
rupted sleep ; the remainder of
D.A.F. stayed at home. So
high was the morale that mess-
parties went on just as usual,
a party- transferring itself and
its beer to the slit-trenches
when the bombers came close,
there to jeer at the Luftwaffe.
The battle opened and
swirled around in the dust.
D.A.F. went into intensive
operations. For a while Eighth
Army seemed to be winning,
but then it fell back a little
from the Gazala Line. One
morning the Melo9's of the
Luftwaffe became too attentive,
and Mary telephoned through
to the fighter-group (the tele-
phone-system of Air Forma-
tion Sigs never broke down at
any time). To the group-
commander, Mary said: “The
one-o-nines are getting a bit
above themselves. I think -they
must be using the Gazala Strip.
Send some of your boys to pay
them a call.”
Off flew a wing, which
included 3 and 450 Australian
squadrons, and found that once
again Mary had guessed
correctly—the Luftwaffe were
on Gazala Strip. But the Luft-
waffe had made a mistake that
Mary never made; it had out-
distanced its supply-columns,
and all the aircraft were sitting
on the ground waiting for
petrol. Once, twice, and a
third time the D.A.F. Kitty-
hawks flew across the strip,
shooting-up everything, and
with no return fire. There
wasn’t even an a.-a., gun.
The German fighter force was
wiped-out, and thereafter the
Luftwaffe had only negligible
effect on our retreat all the way
to the Alamein Line.
In a typically swift stroke,
Mary had achieved complete
air-mastery.
THE retreat-plan came into
operation when the Eighth
Army was losing and its head-
quarters had withdrawn 100
miles. D.A.F. Headquarters
stayed where it was always
located alongside the fighter
squadrons. However, Mary
did strip his H.Q. down to
essentials so that it could be
instantly mobile.
One afternoon a large
German column came along
the road from El Adem towards
the D.A.F. airstrips, and there
was a shot-by-shot description
of its progress from an R.A.F.
armored-car. It was a thrust
too strong to be taken lightly,
so Mary telephoned to Eighth
Army H.Q. to ask the score.
Back over the 100 miles of
line came the reply: Eighth
Army had withdrawn its forces
from El Adem and was in
retreat, and sorry! but Eighth
Army had forgotten to tell
D.A.F. So, except for some
rearguard units, there was
nothing between the enemy
column and D.A.F. with its
a.-a. cordon.
Even in its supreme self-
confidence, D.A.F. never really
believed that, on its own, it
could defeat the army of
Rommel. At 4.30 p.m. D.A.F.
units were told by telephone to
get out the retreat-plan and act
on the first stage. By 6 p.m.
every unit had moved from
the airstrips, which were
occupied during the night by
the enemy.
Thereafter, D.A.F. was
forced to withdraw with every
movement back of Eighth
Army, but always in planned
stages. Never was there any
disorganisation, nor any let-up
in the intensive air-effort. And
at each stage Maty flew his
Storch around the units, still
maintaining the personal touch.
So much did he fly, and with
so little regard of the risk of
being shot down, that finally
the C.-in-C. had to give a direct
order that he was not to fly
without a fighter escort.
i TpHE final stage of the retreat
was at Daba. From there,
D.A.F. operated at maximum
intensity to help an army corps,
including the New Zealand
division, to break out of
Matruh, where it was almost
encircled.
During the afternoon, when
the battle was at its peak, Mary
said to his senior air-staff
officer: “George, I’m going
down to the beach for a swim.
I’ll be there for the next two
or three hours if you want me
for anything special.”
So efficient was the Desert
Air Force, so high its morale,
and so machinelike was it in
operation, that its commander
could take time off'for an after-
noon on the beach! He
needed relaxation, because he
had shown signs of strain, but
what commander, other than
a man like Mary, could so con-
fidently go off at the height of
battle? It was perhaps the
greatest moment of his career
that he could go for a swim
at the time when Churchill was
telling the House of Commons
that the Battle of Britain was
being re-enacted in the desert
skies.
Mary went on to further
successes. He was knighted
after the Battle of Alamein,
he commanded the First Tac-
tical Air Force in the Medi-
terranean, and the Second
T.A.F. in Europe. Like his
famous contemporary, the
Seventh Armored Division,
Mary went all the way from
the desert to Berlin, and proved
himself the greatest exponent
of tactical air-warfare in any
Air Force.
Mary was another one of
the Anzacs who climbed to
fame in the world arena . . .
His name? Oh, yes. He was
the late Air-Marshal Sir
Arthur Coningham, K.8.E.,
C. 8., D. 5.0., M.C., D.F.C.,
A.F.C.
But to those who served in
the Desert Air Force, so many
of them Australians, he was
always Mary Coningham.


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
"THE MIGRATING CORRIEDALE"
By “Riverina”
CJHEPHERDS of Biblical
times roamed the plains of
Israel herding their flocks of
fat-tailed sheep from marauders
and winter cold. That was over
2000 years ago. The fat-tailed
Sheep and the shepherds still
roam the hills, but they have
been joined by a sheep of a
luodern generation, on.e evolved
in our time and bred in
Australasia.
The sheep is the Corriedale,
and the man responsible for its
introduction to Israel is Dr.
Solomon Goldberg. This story
has been treated briefly before,
but few people realise that the
work started by an airlift of
Corriedales over four years ago
Was but the beginning, not the
end.
And very few sheep indeed
can boast a special fort and
sub-machine-guns for their
protection!
Also, because of the fore-
sight and initiative of Dr.
Goldberg, the wasted, eroded
Tests have been made
to decide the advan-
tages of light surface
insecticide spraying to
protect sheep from
fly-strike, as against
normal jetting.
Results showed that
spraying used two to
four times as much
insecticide to obtain
results equal to jet-
ting. However, spray-
ing is a much quicker
job. So far as lambs
are concerned, excel-
lent protection against
fly-strike is provided
when Elasfrator Rub-
ber Rings are used
for marking and
tailing.
plains are being coaxed and
bulldozed back to lush produc-
tivity.
In January, 1951, Dr.
Solomon Goldberg, a quietly
spoken but dynamic man, and
a noted Australian surgeon,
stood gazing over a certain
part of the countryside of
Israel. He saw the land was
gutted and scarred with
erosion, but he saw also
abundant growth, ideal for the
feeding of sheep, going to
waste.
The doctor had returned to
the land of his birth while on
a world tour. He had passed
through the towns and villages
and had seen many poorly clad
people. He had learnt that
they were starved for meat,
their ration being 4oz. a week.
He had learnt that the small
number of textile-mills were
working at only one-third of
their capacity because the
country did not have' the
foreign currency to buy raw
materials.
Troubled in mind, he won-
dered how he could assist, and
a scheme of great imagination
slowly unwound itself. The
plan: to start a farm on these
plains and transport sheep
from the flocks on his own
property in Australia. If this
could be done successfully it
would solve the country’s prob-
lems of raw materials for the
mills and meat for the people.
His 3650-acre farm, Carmel,
at Benerembah, 10 miles from
Griffith in the Murrumbidgee
Irrigation Area, produced rice,
hay, oats, sorghum and silage,
and carried 10,000 stud Corrie-
dale and Merino-Corriedale
cross flocks.
The Corriedale, he was
certain, was best suited to
Israel’s climate. He knew the
breed well, with its dual
capacity as a producer of high-
quality mutton and wool, and
its adaptability to all climatic
conditions. He knew also the
ewes were excellent mothers,
strong in natural instincts and
good milk-producers.
Since Biblical days the sheep
of Israel had been the Awasi,
a fat-tailed variety used mainly
to produce milk. Its wool
coarse and rough, fit only for
making carpets.
When Britain gave up her
mandate in Israel and withdrew
her troops the Arabs and Jews
began their skirmishes, and,
in 1947, the war known by the
Jews as the War of Libera-
tion was fought. Before this
there were 500,000 sheep in
Israel, but afterwards the
majority of the shepherds, who
were Arabs, left the country
and took their flocks, with
them. The eventual number of
The Corriedales being reloaded after a break from the
plane at Karachi.
sheep left was in the vicinity of
46,000.
Qnce the plan of the project
was firmly cemented in his
mind Dr. Goldberg moved
quickly. The Israeli Depart-
ments of Agriculture and
National Development were
both astounded and pleased
with the idea, and after a
thorough examination of the
plan, promised full co-opera-
tion. With experts from the two
departments, Dr. Goldberg
was driven for thousands of
miles over various parts of the
country looking for the best
position for the farm. The
officers eventually selected and
allocated the project 1000 acres
10 miles east of Ghaza at a
place called Dorot, on the
plains of Negev (the “plains of
the south”).
The southern part of Israel,
low and undulating, with a
15in. rainfall, seemed ideal for
raising sheep; also, the
reticulation of water to this
part of the land was already
in progress, the water being
pumped from wells 60 miles
away in the north,
Unable to finance such a
project on his own, the doctor
flew to England to co-opt the
assistance of his two friends,
Israel Sieff and Sigmund
Gestetner, who were whole-
heartedly for the idea. With
their consent he then flew to
put the proposition to an
American friend, multi-
millionaire Y. D. Markson, of
Los Angeles. Markson was
intrigued and interested, and
so became the third financial
associate to the amount of
$50,000. This money was
mainly used for American
machinery and equipment.
Returning to Israel, Dr.
Goldberg realised that the first
great task, before any sheep
could be brought to the land,
was cultivation and planting.
Israel’s foremost problem—•
soil-erosion—also had to be
tackled.
For 2000 years the land had
been badly farmed. There had
never been any attempt to con-
serve, preserve or irrigate, and
the practice of the shepherds
since Biblical days was to drive
their flocks to a suitable spot
and stay until the ground was
bare of all vegetation.
At the close of 1951 Dr.
Goldberg returned to Aus-
tralia ; he still had many diffi-
culties. He first approached
the Government for a permit to


• WOOL-STOCK
• INSURANCE
• MERCHANDISE
• TRAVEL
• FINANCE
Deperti
JDalgetys
Y
export a certain number of
sheep and permission to trans-
fer some of his own funds and
equipment to Israel. In these
and other requests he was given
the utmost consideration, help
and advice, but the official
translation of ideas into
material facts takes time, and
it was nearly 1953 before the
go-ahead signal was given.
The first consignment was to
be 119 Corriedales, but because
of «the Suez prohibition on
ships to Israel, it was decided
that the sheep would be flown
in. Arrangements were made
with 8.0.A.C. for a plane
some time in August. This air-
craft, a converted Lancaster
known as the York, had to have
specially constructed pens and
a special air-conditioning plant
for use when the plane landed
at tropical ports en route.
It then fell to the manager of
Carmel, Claude Anderson, to
select suitable sheep from the
flocks. With the assistance and
advice of officers from the
C.5.1.R.0., he constructed a
model body similar to that of
the inside of the chartered air-
craft. The sheep were selected
and their training and prepara-
tion began. For days before
their departure they were
loaded and unloaded repeatedly
from the model and bedded-
down and fed in it. Their
special diet consisted of 50 per
cent, lucerne-hay, 25 per cent,
oaten-hay, 25 per cent. oats.
Weights were checked con-
tinuously.
The plan was to take the
sheep in one semi-trailer from
Carmel to Melbourne, from
there by boat to Singapore,
where they would board the
aircraft. Stopping-places would
be Calcutta, Biran, Karachi,
Nicosia and the Israelian air-
port Lydda.
Before and during all this
planning and preparation, con-
struction, cultivating and plant-
ing was taking - place on the
fanm at Dorot. This work was
supervised by David, son of
Dr. Goldberg, who had
graduated as a doctor earlier in
the year.
On August 5, 1953, at 5.30
p.m., after a break in the
Weather, the 119 Corriedales
were loaded and “Operation
Golden Fleece,” as it had been
named by the doctor, was
under way. First stop: 100yds.
down the property road, where
the semi bogged-down. But
that was the only real trouble
On the whole trip. From
Carmel to Melbourne, by boat
to Singapore, by plane to
Lydda, the sheep remained in
excellent condition. Only one
was lost.
On arrival at Lydda, 60 miles
from Dorot, the sheep were
quarantined for seven days,
and, beginning here, and for
the rest of their days at the
farm, they were to receive
“special protection.” While
they were grazing on the plains
or bedded-down in the big
sheds at night, men, accustomed
to the swift, stealthy attack of
the Arabs, stood guard with
sub-machine-guns and rifles.
With the first air-lift suc-
cessful and the first stages of
the experiment over, a larger
consignment followed. In
January, 1955, 204 Corriedales
were taken from Australia to
Aden by sea and from there by
air to Israel. Again the sheep
arrived in excellent condition
and with the loss of one.
The sheep have acclimatised
well in their new surroundings
and climate, producing good
fat lambs and averaging over
121 b. of wool per sheep.
It is not intended to cross
the sheep with the local Awasi
breed, as it has been found that
the Corriedale is standing up
to conditions better than the
native. The farm is self-
supporting, with crops of oats,
lucerne, wheat, sorghum and
industrial beet, and such has
been the rapid growth that
part of the capital has been
returned to Australia in the
form of dollars.
At all times the venture has
had the active support and
advice of a member of U.N.0.,
who saw it as a means of raising
living standards in the Middle
Dr. Find (third from left), Minister for Agriculture in Israel , and
officers of his department, inspect one of the first Corriedale
rams to arrive at the farm at Dorot.
East and also as an answer to
Communism.
Now back at his practice in
Sydney, Dr. Goldberg reports
the project as so satisfactory
that he has received a request
from Israel for more sheep,
and arrangements are being
made to send a further 1000.
This time, for economic
reasons and since the farm is
being operated on a com-
mercial basis and the proving
stages are over, the sheep will
be sent by sea all the way—the
cost, £l5 a sheep as against
£6O for the first lot. To avoid
passage through the Suez
Canal they will be landed at
the newly constructed seaport
of Elath, which is part of the
Gulf of.Akaba. ■


DEVELOP YOUR PROPERTY
icwm/Muy with
HCMES
Kewroaceo c owe# erf
r*s.
\
Ji
Humes centrifugally spun reinforced concret®
Troughing is practically everlasting. Among its
advantages are the ease of erection, needs no
maintenance, resistance to fire and cannot rust.
Available in lengths of 8 feet at competitive prices.
HUMES LIMITED
43 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. 8X4165
FACTORIES IN:
Adartistown, Grafton, Harden, Lismore,
Queanbeyan, Rydalmere, Tom worth. h 3
Since 1955 many changes
have taken place on the now
well - established, modernly
equipped farm. Permanent
concrete buildings include a
three-story fort equipped with
searchlights and gunnery,
operated each night and all
night because of the ever-
present danger of hostile Arabs.
Only a small number of sheep
have been stolen or “killed in
an action.”
The farm is now carrying
over 800 sheep. Dr. Goldberg’s
aim is to see it stocked to its
capacity 4000. This, he
believes, will be achieved in
two years.
Electric-fences
“Agricola”: More and more
farmers in Queensland are
using electric-fences to strip-
graze their crops and pastures.
They say it pays, by saving
feed and cutting costs.
The latest electric-fence units
are well fitted up. They are
housed, complete with battery,
in a metal carrying-case. The
wire is rolled on to a strainer,
which makes it easy to fasten
the wire and strain it at the
same time.
The fence-line is easy to
erect. A man can run a line of
steel posts across a paddock
of average size in less than an
hour. Some steel posts have a
flange near the base ; by push-
ing on this with your foot
you can drive the post into the
ground. Others are knocked in
with a heavy hammer, or back
of an old axe. Whichever
method is used will depend on
the type of soil. Dry, black
soil will demand a hammer or
axe.
Before running the line, it
is necessary to fix the area of
the strip. There’s no hard-and-
fast rule for this. It all depends
on the state of the crop and
the size of the herd. One
lesson farmers have learnt: it
doesn’t pay to graze the strip
for more than two days at a
time. If the strip is grazed too
long, the crop will be
in, and regrowth will be slow.
If the crop is poor and the
herd large, a bigger strip will
be necessary than if the crop
were thick and lush and the
herd small. One thing is
certain: the strip should be
large enough for one day’s
grazing and not more than two.
Having decided on the size of
the strip, drive in the line of
posts. Although the fence is
only temporary, keep it as
straight as possible—the wire
will be easier to strain.
Once the posts are in, fasten
one end of the wire to an
insulator fixed on the side-
fence. Run the wire across the
paddock, and fasten the
strainer to an insulator on the
opposite fence. Strain-up the
wire, and fit it into the rubber
insulators on the posts. Then
hitch-up the unit. A special
lead from the unit clips on to
the fence-wire; there is no
need to solder wires together.
A good; earth is necessary.
Drive a length of galvanised-
piping into the ground. A
piece of |in. piping is ideal.
Clip the earth-wire on the unit
to this pipe, and connect-up the
battery. It should start working
at once, and will run unattended
for as long as the battery is
charged. If the ground is dry,
pour a bucket of water around
the earth-pipe. A moist earth
gives a better impulse of
current through the wire.
Because the battery will run-
down in time, farmers are
finding it pays to have two
batteries; one to use while
the other is being charged.
When the strip has been
grazed down, another one will
have to be enclosed. Leave the
fence where it is, and run
another line above this one.
This totally encloses the new*
strip, with no danger of the
stock feeding-back on the old
strip and eating off the
regrowth as fast as it comes.
As this area 1 is eaten down,
leapfrog the back fence over
the last line erected, advancing
each line over the other as
successive areas of the crop or
pasture are grazed down.
The units are reasonably
priced, and if looked after will
last a lifetime. The battery
should be charged before it
runs flat. It will last longer
if it is. The best wire to use
is tie-w’ire ; it is easy to work,
and is cheaper than heavier
gauges. The shock keeps the
cattle at bay, not the thickness
of wire.
Once the stock become aware
of the fence they develop a
healthy respect for it. Many
farmers find they can save their
batteries by turning the current
off for part of the day, only
turning it on when young
heifers enter the paddock or
strange stock come into the
herd.
Anything that cuts costs and
saves feed is worth a trial on
any farm, and this is what
these fences are doing in
Queensland. Because the
cattle can’t roam over the
paddock, picking out the more
succulent plants and tramping
the rest into the ground, the
crop goes further. Regrowth is
denser and more succulent
because it gets a chance, to
grow before the stock get at
it again. The grazing-hours
from the one paddock have
been increased as much as 40
per cent, in some cases, with
a corresponding increase in the
milk-yield.
Farm Hints
“C.A.A.”: There are three
ways to deal with earth-mites.
One is to use low-volume
boom-spray and apply 4oz. of
pure D.D.T. (one pint of a
20 per cent, emulsion in 10 to
15 gallons of water); this will
cost about ss. 6d. an acre. The
other method is to topdress with
super, containing lindane, 2oz.
to the acre ; ready-mixed, this
costs about 4s. 6d. an acre'
above the cost of super. The
third method is to topdress
with super, and D.D.T. using
4oz. D.D.T. an acre, mixed as
a dry powder with the super.;
this extra cost is only about
3s. an acre, but the mites are
not killed as quickly as with
lindane.
“Sundowner”: Pea - crops
will fail on new land unless
steps are taken to build-up the
nitrogen-content of the soil.
Best method to ensure success
of these crops on newly
developed land is to inoculate
seed and apply molybdenum-
super. rather than use nitro-
genous fertilisers. On land
where pea-crops have done well
before, production will be
maintained by the application
of molybdenum and super,
alone.
“Bfondie”: If ticks are in
evidence, don't whitewash the
fowlhouse until the pests are
cleaned out, as whitewash tends
to scale, providing additional
habitations for them. Home-
made kerosene-emulsion is
easy to make, and is an effective
spray. Shave lib. of laundry-
soap into a gallon of boiling
water, when dissolved cool-off,
then stir while adding a
gallon of kerosene.


Paint It or Leave It?
By J. B. BLAIR
ipAINTERS the domestic
-*■ and utilitarian type, not
the Bohemian and aesthetic
variety—are under fire from
two totally different directions
in New South Wales. On the
one hand they are threatened
by an organised body which
proposes to force them to paint;
on the other by a Govern-
ment authority which forbids
them to paint. Midway between
the two dictators the citizen
stands irresolute, paint-brush
in hand, undecided whether to
throw it away or to go ahead
and slap some paint on a wall.
Whichever action he takes is
bound to be wrong in some-
one’s eyes.
The move towards compul-
sory painting comes from the
N.S.W. Local Government
Association, which is recom-
mending an amendment to the
Local Government Act to give
councils power to compel
owners to carry-out mainten-
ance work —mostly painting-
on their homes. The suggestion
is that if an owner refuses to
paint his house when ordered
to do so the council should be
empowered to do the job itself
and recover the cost from the
owner.
Do-it-yourself
From the councils' viewpoint
this no doubt seems an excel-
lent idea. If fully enforced it
would ensure that their muni-
cipalities present a neat picture
of street after street of well-
kept homes, with never a sus-
picion of shabbiness or neglect
m offend the aesthetic sense
of aldermen.
The ideal of a neat-and-tidy
suburb, pleasing to the eye, is
a worthy one, and it is not the
exclusive dream of councillors
and aldermen, as is demon-
strated by the amount of work
the average homeowner puts
into the upkeep of his house.
But that the councils should
have the power to compel a
man to paint his house is a
shuddersome thought. Worse
still that they should be
empowered to do the work and
then bill him for the cost.
Nowadays most homeowners
do their own painting ; the cost
of having the job done by con-
tract is almost prohibitive. This
trend has become so marked
that the Australian paint-trade
now caters more for the do-it-
yourself man than for the
master-painter. In contrast to
20 years ago modern paints are
easy to apply and require little
or no mixing. Given time and
patience any able-bodied man
can paint a house, and most
owner-occupiers do keep their
homes reasonably well-painted.
The eyesores which have
occasioned the move for com-
pulsion are mostly tenanted
houses or are owned by elderly
people who are incapable of
doing the job themselves. In
either case the chief reason
they stay unpainted is
economic.
At today’s prices and with
fixed rents, for a landlord to
engage a housepainter is equiva-
lent to doing without rent for a
couple of years. The councils
have said nothing about amend-
ing the Landlord and Tenant
legislation to enable owners
to recover the cost of painting
in increased rents, and they are
not likely to seek to extend
their desired powers to com-
pel tenants to do the painting.
Even the most puffed-up aider-
man would consider that was
going a little too far. As to
elderly homeowners, many of
these are in the pensioner class
and have not the means to pay
a house-painter's bill, no matter
how long the council duns
them.
It may be that the councils
will plead that they have no
intention of engaging outside
labor, but intend to use their
own staff.
Such evidence as is available
suggests that this would be
more costly still. If details pub-
lished a few months ago of the
cost of painting some of the
house property of the Sydney
City Council are any guide, a
householder might find it
cheaper in the long-run to
hand-over his title deeds to the
council rather than accept a bill
for painting his house. The City
Council’s estimate for painting
one block of flats was £15,020.
As the annual rentals were
only £3742 this means that the
cost of painting would absorb
more than four years’ rent.
Where Does It End?
But there are deeper implica-
tions in this high-handed
scheme. If a council is to be
able to order the painting of
a house it must obviously work
on some rule less capricious
than the whim of a mayor or
council engineer. The most
likely plan would be to fix a
statutory period as the
maximum lifetime of a coat of
paint. From this would follow
disputes on quality and types
of paint, leading inevitably to
the fixing of statutory standards
and, ultimately, to dictation
by the councils of the type of
paint to be used, possibly even
the color. By that time, if the
householder had not already
given-up the struggle in exas-
peration, the councils would no
doubt bring in a by-law pro-
hibiting private painting and
insisting on all painting being
done by council labor.
Years Behind Schedule
This may sound far-fetched,
but the precedent for it has
already been set by the
N. S. Wales Education Depart-
ment, which, as a sequel to
complaints by the Operative
Painters’ Union, has forced a
group of citizens who were
painting some schoolrooms by
voluntary labor during the
school vacation to cease work.
It used to be considered a
laudable thing for people to
band themselves together in a
working-bee to give their labor
gratis in order to perform some
useful service to the community.
Many Australian towns can
point with pride to children's
playgrounds, clubrooms,,
kindergartens, gymnasiums and
creches which are the legacy
of such community efforts. In
N. S. Wales, however, it’ seems
that this sort of work is no
longer permitted. Instead of
being something to be admired
and encouraged it must be con-
demned as anti-social.
This attitude is most illogical.
It is common knowledge that
the maintenance programme of
the N. S. Wales Education
Department is so far behind
that no one can see the back-
log ever being overtaken unless
there is a drastic change in
the method of financing it.
Some schools haven’t seen a
paintbrush since the war, and
any headmaster or Parents’
and Citizens’ Committee can
testify that the standard
answer to requests for painting
is that the work will be done
when finance is available. It
is understandable that with, the
huge increase in the number of
children of schoolgoing age,
due partly to a higher birth-
rate and partly to the immigra-
tion-programme, priority has
had to be given to the building
ot new schools and classrooms.
The upkeep of old schools has
had to suffer. Moreover, like
the private householder, the
Education Department has
found that when it is a matter
of paying someone to paint a
building, a lot of money goes
a very little way.
In these circumstances it
might be thought that the
department would welcome the
assistance of the P. and C. Asso-
ciations. These people are not
interested in the politics of the
matter nor in the intricacies
of departmental finance. They
merely want to see the condi-
tions under which their
children are taught made a
little more agreeable. If the
department is unable within the
foreseeable future to do this,
some of them are prepared to
do it themselves. They are
interested in getting it done
now, while their children are at
school, not in ten years’ time.
Some useful work has already
been done. In one large boys’
high school the Assembly Hall
was admitted by the depart-
ment to be badly in need of
painting, but repeated requests
met with the reply that funds
were not available. One firm
quoted £l9OO for the job. With
voluntary labor, borrowed gear
and concession-rate paint, a
group of parents did it for less
than £lOO.
The argument of the Opera-
tive Painters’ Union —accepted
by the department (or more
likely by the Minister and
Government) —is that this
practice throws its members out
of work or robs them of wages.
This is not so. It is not a
question of choosing between
the alternative of having the
work done free by parents or
having it done by paid labor.
The choice is between having it
done free by parents or not
having it done at all. It will
be a sad thing for Australia if
the principle is accepted that
there is something shameful in
being willing to give an occa-
sional day’s work to the com-
munity without expectation of
being paid for it. ,


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Spring-blossom and fragrant pink
stocks decorated the State drawing-room
at Government House when the Lieut.-
Governor, Sir Edmund Herring, and
Lady Herring held another of their small
and intimate late-afternoon parties. Lady
Herring wore a deep-blue silk-shantung
frock, the softly draped bodice of which
extended into a sunray-pleated skirt.
Margaret Herring assisted her parents
and chose a navy-and-white spotted silk-
organza frock. With the Premier was
Mrs. Bolte, she wearing pine-green silk-
taffeta with a small matching hat trimmed
with pink roses. Among the guests were
Lady Lowe; Dr. J. E. Shilliday and.his
daughter Mrs. Bruce Nelson, of Geelong ;
Dr. and Mrs. Arthur Joyce; Dr. and
Mrs. Harry Furnell ; and R.A.A.N.C.
Matron-in-Chief, Miss J. E. Bowe.
* * ☆
Luigi Infaotino, visiting Italian tenor,
was the guest-of-honor at a late-
afternoon party given by Italian Consul-
General the Marchese Serafini and the
Marchesa Serafini in their Toorak home.
The Marchesa wore a slimly draped
cocktail-frock of shimmering gunmetal
tissue trimmed with black velvet. Daughter
Patrizia chose a sleeveless frock of black
velvet. Guests included Lady Selleck
(whose smart black frock was worn with
a mink stole and a gay little flower-hat);
Mrs. Aubrey Gibson ; Austrian Consul
A. Berger and his wife (she chose a
hunter’s-green tweed frock and beige hat)
and their son Peter; Mr. and Mrs.
Herbert Pacini ; Dr. and Mrs. Ivan
Maxwell ; Dr. and Mrs. Paddy Moran ;
Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Cooper; Mrs.
Harold Holt; Mr. and Mrs. N.
Rothfield.
ir ☆
The first important reception given at
the Town Hall by the new Lord Mayor,
<Cr. F. W. Thomas, and the Lady
Mayoress was in honor of Vietnam’s
President, Ngo Dinh Diem. His Excel-
lency proved a charming guest and
delighted other guests with his easy
friendliness. His national costume —a
royal-blue frock-coat worn over white
trousers and topped with a black
mandarin-cap—was a note of gay color
in the reception-room as he moved about
and met, at his own request, all the guests.
The Lady Mayoress wore a slim
accordion-pleated black wool frock, which
featured a simulated jacket at the front
of the bodice. The Premier's wife wore
with her smart black barathea suit a high-
crowned black hat banded with white silk
braid.
Among the guests were Sir Frank and
Lady Selleck, Cr. Les Coleman and Mrs.
Coleman, Cr. Bernard Evans and Mrs.
Eivans, Cr. and Mrs. Tony Luxton, Cr.
and Mrs. H. Lyall, Cr. R. Solly and Mrs.
Solly, University Vice-Chancellor Sir
George Paton and Lady Paton, Legislative
Assembly Speaker W. J. F. McDonald and
Mrs. McDonald, Dr. and Mrs. E, E.
Dunlop, Mr. and Mrs. L. J. Dooling, Mrs.
T. J. Ryan, Sir Thomas'and Lady White,
Mr. and Mrs. Guy Bakewell, N.Z. Trade
Commissioner Bob Inglis and Mrs.
Ingl is. Italian Consul - General the
Marchese Serafini and the Marchesa
Serafini, Swiss Consul Mons. Paul Enlde
Cattin and Madame Cattin, and Austrian
Consul F. L. Berger and Mrs. Berger.
Anne Robin, daughter of Mrs.
Leonard Milne, of Toorak, has
announced her engagement to Paul,
younger son of Mr. and Mrs. Norman
Lynch, also of Toorak. Educated at St.
Catherine’s, Anne has made fashion her
career;. Paul, an old Xavierian, is a
partner with his father in a large catering
firm.
A curtain-raiser to Air Force Week was
the cocktail-party given at the R.A.A.F.
officers’ mess at Albert Park. The 180
guests were received by the mess-
president, Wing-Commander W. F. Feint,
and Mrs. Feint, and Wing-Commander
and Mrs. lan Allen. Large bowls of
wattle, stocks, gladioli and poppies were
used in the decorations. Among the
guests were Lieut.-General and Mrs.
A. R. Garrett, Air-Vice-Marshal and
Mrs. R. Acton, Air-Vice-Marshal and
Mrs. E. C. Wackett, Air-Commodore F.
Headlam, Major and Mrs. J. B. Trenerry
and Mr. and Mrs. B. Chadwick.
☆ ☆ ☆
In Irene Mitchell’s production of
“Romeo and Juliet’’ at the Little Theatre
the fencing-sequence had a special touch
of realism, due to the coaching of the
adversaries by Julius Pollack, manager
and captain of the Australian Olympic
fencing-team. Valerie Grieg, of the Ballet
Guild, did the choreography of the ballet
danced by Elke Brand, Judith Banks
and Margaret Godfrey, and the plainsong-
chanting was recorded by the choir of
the Gregorian Society of Melbourne.
Irene herself was responsible for the
subtle lighting of the stage.
In the audience were Mr. Justice and
Mrs. Spicer, and Mr. and Mrs. Massey
Burnside, Mrs. Rupert Downes, Mrs.
John Casson, Mr. and Mrs. Eric Thone-
man, Mr. and Mrs. Robert Currer, Mrs.
Gwen Potter and her daughter Caroline,
Education Minister John Bloomfieid and
his daughter Joan, Mr. and Mrs. R. F. G.
Fogarty, Mr. and Mrs. Peter Randall, and
Mr. and Mrs. George Fairfax.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sir Norman and Dame Mabel Brookes
arrived home in time to join in the cele-
bration of the coming-of-age of their
granddaughter, Marion Gengoult Smith.
1 his took the form of a dance given by
her parents, Sir Harold and Lady Gen-
goull Smith, at their South Yarra home.
The guest-of-honor chose a short strapless
frock of blue chiffon finished wdth blue
sequinned bows in front and a sari-drape
at the back. Marion wore gifts she had
received: a pearl necklace from her
mother, a peai) brooch from her father,
and a diamond-and-sapphire ring from
aunt, Mrs. Dyer Hanson. Lady Gen-
goult Smith wore a long-sleeved frock of
black chiffon, cut low at the back and
embroidered with black guipure lace.
Guests were mostly Marion's University
friends.
CANBERRA
The celebration in Canberra of
Malaya’s independence was marked by a
ceremonial unfurling of the new State’s
flag at the Legation offices, where
members of the High Commissioner’s
staff in rich red-and-gold sarongs and
black satin jackets contrasted with the
formal morning-dress worn by heads of
diplomatic missions. The High Commis-
sioner for Malaya and Mrs. Gunn Lay
Teik welcomed the guests ; in the official
party were the U.K. High Commissioner
and Lady Carrington and the Minister for
Territories, Mr. Paul Hasluck. The pro-
clamation of Independence, inscribed on
a scroll handed to him by the small
daughter of the Second Secretary, was
read by the Malayan High Commissioner
and the flag unfurled as a band played the
Malayan National Anthem.
Later, the Governor-General, Sir
William Slim, was present at a reception
given at the Hotel Canberra by the
Malayan High Commissioner and Mrs.
Gunn Lay Teik. Large Malayan and
Australian flags with massed floral
arrangerrffents decorated the reception-
rooms. The host and hostess received a
large number of guests, who included the
American Ambassador, Mr. William J.
Sebald ; the N.Z. High Commissioner,
Mr. G. E. L. Alderton ; the German
Ambassador and Mrs. Hess ; the Japanese
Ambassador and Mme. T. Suzuki ; the


Minister for Brazil and Senhora Borges
da Fonseca ; the High Commissioner for
Canada and Mrs. McDermot; the French
Ambassador, M. Renaud Siven; the
Indonesian Ambassador and Mrs. Helmi;
the Commandant R.M.C., Major-
General Wilton, and his wife, and Group-
Captain and Mrs. Steege.
The toast to his Majesty the King of
Malaya was proposed by Mr. Hasluck.
and honored in champagne.
SYDNEY
There was varied fare for the socially-
minded and the seekers of entertainment
this week, from the two opera-openings
(at which one noticed seasoned opera-
goers Mr. and Mrs. Erik Langker) to
the luncheon and garden-party given by
the A.O.C. and officers of the Home
Command R.A.A.F. at Lapstone on
Sunday, when Air-Vice-Marshal A. L.
Walters and Mrs. Walters received as
guests-of-honor Air-Marshal Sir Richard
Williams and Lady Williams.
V # V-
Most formal function of the week was
the reception given by Lord Mayor Jensen
for the Governor, Lieut.-General E. W.
Woodward, and Mrs. Woodward. The
receiving-line, which also included the
Lady Mayoress, Premier J. J. Cahill and
Mrs. Cahill, were still smiling after having
shaken hands with the 1100 guests who
had gathered in the foyer and filed past
to the flower- and pennant-decorated hall.
Silk brocade was worn by all three ladies
in the receiving-line, Mrs. Woodward and
Mrs. Cahill choQsing grey and Mrs. Jensen
flame.
It was a representative gathering and
attractively dressed. Lady Lloyd-Jones,
in navy taffeta, was among those who
wore ballerina-length dresses. The Law
contingent was headed by Chief Justice
Sir Kenneth Street with Lady Street.
Judge Redshaw, just retired from the
Bench, was chatting with Judge and Mrs.
G. J. O'Sullivan. Mr. Justice Dovey and
M rs. Dovey commanded attention.. There
were doctors by the dozens, Sir Herbert
and Lady Schlink among them, Mrs.
Tom Bateman in a brilliant red coat, Mrs.
C. M. Guiney in champagne satin. Civil
servants, of course, abounded. Had an
interesting chat to Dr. and Mrs. R. J.
Noble (he heads the Department of
Agriculture), and learned from Retail
Traders’ secretary Griffin that Friday-
night shopping is on the agenda.
Mrs. J. S. Morell wore one of the most
beautiful dresses, an ice-blue satin sheath
embroidered with crystal, and Mrs.
Lionel McFadyen’s classically - draped
chiffon was also outstanding.
☆ ☆ ☆
It has been suggested that Melbourne
is fast becoming “the Paris of the
Southern Hemisphere” because of her
flourishing fashion-business, but Sydney,
too, seems to be putting in a claim for
this title. It is the increasing number of
beards to be seen on authors, actors,
artists, radio-men and so forth that gives
rise to this theory. Corduroy jackets are
common, sandals are frequently seen.
Can it be that the spirit of Toulouse-
Lautrec is abroad? Adding further
evidence is the new “bistro” which
Johnnie Walker has opened in the Pitt
Street Rhinecastle cellars, where anyone
with yearnings for the last time they saw
Paris can yearn in suitable surroundings.
Wine' can be quaffed at the same time,
and exotic dishes prepared under the
direction of Madeleine Thurston will free
one from the pie-and-potato mind-set so
hostile to the international feeling.
Phillipa Curlewis, whose engagement
has recently been announced, is one of
Sydney’s popular young girls. She is the
daughter of Judge and Mrs. Adrian
Curiewis, of Mosman. Her fiance is
Adrian Poole, son of Mr. B. Poole, of
Dural, and the late Mrs. Poole. Photo
by Norton Trevaire.
Fashion-note of the week was the intro-
duction of Dior’s “sack.” When a
mannequin wore it in Liverpool Street
comments were varied, but one young lass.
thought it “utter heaven.” So
Smart young people
Used to hate
Mother’s fashions
Of ’2B.
Used to shudder
Even more
At Mother’s figure
Of ’24.
Thought the tunic
Just a line
Plaved for laughs
In '29.
Now “the sack” is
Utter heaven
The laugh’s on them
In ’57.
V V #
Talking of beards . . . there were quite
a few at the opening of the Contemporary
Art Society’s show at the Macquarie
Galleries during the week, while at David
Jones’ Gallery the one man who was
having the one-man show, Gerard
Havekes, sported a red beard. The
C.A.S. had sherry at their opening,
Havekes had Mr. J. M. Pringle (until
recently editor of the “Sydney Morning
Herald”).. Both shows were well
attended. Mr. Havekes is a Dutchman
who has lived in Indonesia and has been
in Australia for seven years. But he
doesn’t paint Australian scenes or people
who, he says, “do not inspire me at all.”
Perhaps he needs to go down to Johnnie
Walker’s bistro! There were some
smartly dressed people at this opening;
Mrs. Neville Rowlands wearing a spring-
sprig of lilac on her dark suit, with Mrs.
Gordon Wharton and Mrs. John Bovill
and her young daughter Sandra.
☆ ftr *
William Clauson, the singer of folk-
songs and ballads, who gave his first
concert at the Town Hall on Saturday
night, is a good-looking and lively young
man who apparently thinks that folk-
singing should be entertaining, for he
fenders each of his ballads as a little
drama, being funny in funny songs and
sad in sad ones. He also seems to be able
to play the guitar. Most people strum a
guitar, but he plays it with a good deal of
vigor. Whether all this emphasis on enter-
taining one’s audience will be welcomed
by sombre folksong-lovers or not is a
question. As far as this Letter is con-
cerned the only thing not to be approved
of regarding Mr. Clauson is his coining
of the word “balladeer.”
V V &
There must be a record number of
“do’s” this year to defray expenses for
the Black and White Ball, which is
scheduled for October 8 at the Trocadero,
The one nearest in time is the gala pre-
view of the Phillip-street Theatre’s new
revue, “Cross Sections,” tonight (Wednes-
day). The tickets for this are £2 25., the
proceeds, of course, going to the Royal
Blind Society.
Rather more spectacular (in price at
least) will be the premiere of “Round the
World in 80 Days” at the Paris Theatre
on October 2. A double-ticket for this
costs £lOO and includes “a fabulous party
afterwards.” You can also go to the
premiere for £5 (single) and just read
about the fabulous party. It’s all in three
good causes: the Opera House (50 per
cent.). Legacy (25 per cent.) and the
Royal Blind Society (25 per cent.).
☆ ☆ ft
The garden of Maurice Chevalier was
one of those visited by Mrs. Arthur Davis
on her recent trip abroad and described
for members of the club at Thursday’s
luncheon. Mrs. Davis kept her eye
open for new ideas on gardening while
overseas; from this Letter’s “rusty-
fingered” view of gardening, the best idea
was: “Maurice Chevalier’s brother does
all the actual work!”
☆ ☆ ☆
Interesting events coming up for the
next week include the matinee premiere
of Gladys Lister’s play “The Little Round
House” at the Independent on Saturday.
It is an Australian fantasy in fwo acts
with music by Judith Yardley, and is our
latest contribution to first-class theatre for
children.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Settlement and Development oj
the East Coast, North Island, New
Zealand (Auckland, 1949), by E. E.
Bradbury; Highway Robbery Under
Anns, by J. Bradshaw; Reminis-
cences of the Goldfields and Else-
where in N.S.W., by M. Brennan;
any other books by M. Brennan;
Narrative of a Voyage from Sydney
to Tones Straits (Sydney, 1863), by
W. E. Brockett ; Brockman’s Aus-
ti a Turn Expedition.—^-6580.
A letter from Spain: “We are
two Spaifish girls of 25 who would
like to correspond with some Aus-
tralian young man. We are interested
in literature, music (modern and
clas s i c) and sport, especially
swimming. Montserrat Bertran,
Aragon, 333 Barcelona ; Esperanza
Mil las, Pje Maluguer 9-25.-la,
Barcelona.”
To buy a print of Saint's “Adver-
sity” (represented as a tlower-por). —
6582.
To buy copy of Winning Hazard,
by Noel Vvynyard: puonshed in
England about 1945. —b 583.
Information Sought
A recommended whitewash?
The -folio wing three methods are
given in Handy Hints for the Farm.
(1) Take 201 b. lime (unstaked), 31b.
common salt, alum. Slake lime
with boiling, water to consistency of
thin cream. To increase antiseptic
qualities, add a half pint of crude
carbolic per bucketful. (2) To bait
a bucket of lime add two handfuls
of common salt and two of tallow.
Slake slowly with cold water, stirring
ali the time. This gives two buckets
of wash that will be very adhesive
and unaffected by rain. (3) Slake
brne with water and add sufficient
skim-milk to bring it to the
consistency of thin cream. To each
gallon add loz. salt and 2oz. brown
sugar or molasses dissolved in water.
The germicidal value of the latter
two methods can be increased by the
addition of Fib. chloride-of-lime to
every 30gal. of wash. For a
serviceable whitewash at no cost,
mix half a kerosene-tin of wood-ash
and a jam-tin of old flour into the
consistency of paint. Applied with
a whitewash-brush, it's just the thing
tor sheds and other buildings. Rain
won’t wash it off, and it won’t flake
off. Apply two coats.
v * * *
Some details of the Nuffield
Foundation Dominion Travelling
Fellowship for 1958 ?
Seven awards will be available,
including two in medicine, two in
natural sciences and two rn
humanities and social sciences. The
foundation wishes the awards (for
men and women) to be open on as
wide a basis as possible, and
applications from people with
degrees in such fields as dentistry,
veterinary science, engineering and
architecture are welcome. Candi-
dates must be Australian nationals,
normally between the ages of 25
and 35, and must be university
graduates holding, preferably, a
Master’s or Doctor’s degree, and
having subsequently had a year or
more of teaching or research experi-
ence on the staff of a university or
comparable institution. A Fellow-
ship will normally be tenable for
one year, but in exceptional cases
may be extended. It will provide for
return travelling expenses (at tourist
rates) of.a Fellow between his home
residence and the U.K., and, if he
is married, similar expenses for his
wife. An adequate allowance will
be made for living and travelling
expenses in the U.K. and for
academic fees, books and oilier
incidental expenses, as well as a
personal allowance. The total value
of an award, including all travelling
expenses, varies, but will in no
case be less than £S9OG. A Fellow
will, of course, be expected to
resume residence in Australia on
ihe completion of the Fellowship.
He will as well be required to carry
out, at centres approved by the
trustees of the foundation, a pro-
gramme of research-work and train-
ing. Other work, paid or unpaid,
may not be undertaken without the
permission of the trustees. During
the tenure of the Fellowship a Feilow
will not normally be permitted to
prepare specifically for, or to take,
examinations for higher degrees or
diplomas by bodies in the
UJK. A Fellow will be required to
submit to the trustees, at the end
of the Fellowship, a report on his
work during the period of Fellow-
ship. Should the trustees at any
time -find that a Fellow neglects or
has neglected the obligations of the
appointment, they shall have power
immediately to terminate the
Fellowship. The Fellowships will
be awarded by the trustees of the
foundation on the recommendation
of its advisory committee in Aus-
tralia. Applications for Fellowships
to begin in 1958 should be submitted
rot later than September 12, 1957,
to the Secretary, the Nuffield
Foundation Australian Advisory
Committee, University of Mel-
bourne, Carlton, N. 3, Victoria, from
whom copies of the application-
form may be obtained.* Applications
must be accompanied by a pro-
giamme of intended work in the
United Kingdom in as specific terms
as possible.
* * * *
Some information on English
author and skier Sir Arnold Lunn?
Born in Madras on, April 18, 1888,
the eldest son of Sk Henry Lunn, he
was educated at Harrow and Balliol
College, Oxford, where he was
secretary of the Oxford Union
Society ahd edited the “Isis*” He
is an ex-president of the Ski Club of
Great Britain and founder and ex-
president of the Alpine Ski Club,
the Kandahar Ski Club and the
Oxford University Mountaineering
Club. A member of the committee
of the International Ski Federation
from 1939 to 1949, he was also
chairman of the International Down-
hill Ski Racing Committee (1946-49).
in War 11 he served as a press-corres-
pondent in the Balkans, Chile and
Peru. Editor of the British Ski Year
Book since 1919, he has as well
edited Georgian Stories (1922, 1924,
1925) and contributed to the
Encyclopcedia Britannica. He was
knighted in 1952. Sir Arnold has
published quite a number of books,
vbeir subjects embracing in the main
skiing, philosophy, religion and
travel. They include The English-
man in the Alps (1912), Skiing
(1913), The Alps (1914), Was
Switzerland Pro-German ? (nom-de
plume, Sutton Croft ; 1918), Cross
Country Skiing (1920), Roman Con-
verts (1924), A History of Skiing
(1927), The Flight from Reason
(1930), Is Christianity True? (with
C. E. M. Joad ; 1933), A Saint in the
Slave Trade (1934), Science and the
Supernatural (1935), Communism
and Socialism (1938), Whither
Europe! (1940), Come What May.
An Autobiography (1940),
Mountains of Memory (1948), From
Memory to Memory (1956).
* * * *
Some information on the old
Hunter River steamer Sophia lane?
Was she the first steamer to ply
betM’een Sydney and Newcastle ?
The story of the Sophia Jane is
told in J. H. M. Abbott’s The New-
castle Packets and the Hunter Valley
(1943). Built in 1826, of some 250
tons burthen, 126 ft. in length and
with 50-h.p. engines, she was at
first employed on a passenger-run
between England and France. In
May, 1831, she arrived in Sydney
Harbor, the first steam-vessel to
enter the port; on June 12, 1831,
she sailed from Sydney to Morpeth,
at the head of the navigable waters
of the Hunter, to inaugurate the
regular passenger-and-cargo service
between Sydney and Newcastle. The
Sophia Jane was probably one of
the fastest steamers of her day; she
averaged eight knots, and covered
the distance from Sydney Heads to
Nobby’s (60 miles) in under eight
hours. She was on the run till
broken-up in 1846, when her engines
were put in a new vessel, the
Phoenix, which in 1850 was wrecked
on the North Head of the Clarence
River.
* * * *
Brief biography of Australian poet
Brum Vrepo in ?
“Brian Vreponl” was the nom-
de-plume ot Benjamin Arthur
frueb ridge (1882-1955). A
wanderer and man of many pans,
he began his working life as a
violin-teacher at Melbourne’s Uni-
versity Conservatorium, spent 14
years in N.Z., and also lived at times
in N.S.W. and Queensland. He
roamed Australia on horse, bicycle
and foot, and was, among other
things, axeman on the N.S.W. North
Coast and book-salesman at Angus
and Robertson’s. He wrote Plays
ana Flower Verses for Youth (1934),
2 He Miracle (1939) and Beyond the
Claw (1943), all poetry,, and The
Time Has Come, a novel yet to be
published. His longest poem, “The
Miracle,” is on the theme of man’s
rape of the earth and the consequent
disaster of soil-erosion. His “The
Apple Tree” was once described by
a Bulletin reviewer as "one of the
loveliest short poems ever written in
Australia.”
* * * *
Rats under the floor of a house
in the country that we visit about
once a fortnight have just about
taken control of the place■ Traps,
poisons and cages have proved use-
less. How can we get rid oj them ?
S. L. Allman, Chief Entomologist,
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture,
suggests the following. The most
successful way to clear the rats out
cl the building is to use rat-baits
containing the relatively new
poison, warfarin. These are readily
available under various trade-
names. Warfarin baits must be
freely available to rats in their run-
ways, near their nests and water-
supply (this latter spot is important)
continuously for at leas* three
weeks. It is important that it be
left about in large quantities,
because if it runs short and they
do not feed on it for 48 hours, they
can throw off the effects of the
poison. Probably 101 b. of the
mixed bait would be sufficient; but
it the rat population is severe and
the area large, up to 15-2018. will
be needed.
* * * m
Were any Russian awards made to
R.A.A.F. men in the last war?
What Mere they, anti how do they
compare with our own awards ?
(From H. R. Rayner, R.A.A.F.
Public Relations Officer.)
Only two R.A.A.F. men
received U.S.S.R. awards in
the last war. They were F/Lt. J. H.
Dixon (of Joncho, Qld.; awarded
the Medal for Distinguished Battle
Service)- and S/Ldr. Donald H.
Smith (a South Australian; awarded
the Medal for Valor). Dixon was
attached to an R.A.A.F. P.R.U. and
flew to Russia via the Shetlands as
one of the R.A.F. lads keeping tabs
on the Tirpitz and Scharnhorst when
they were in Norway. The success-
ful midget-submarine attack against
the Tirpitz was planned from his
pictures. His decoration is awarded
by the Soviet to “those who in the
fight against enemies of the Soviet
State, by their initiative, skill and
daring deeds, with risk to their lives,
contribute to the success of the
fighting operations on the front.”
Smith, who later commanded aE
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(29/8/’57 )
General rains are likely in a large part of Queensland
during September, although poor rainfall is indicated in
the Peninsula, north-west and possibly the Bundaberg area.
Heaviest rains, with the likelihood of flooding, may occur on
the central highlands and central coast.
N.S.W. can expect general rains during September, with
the best fails on the north coast, northern tablelands and
south-west slopes and Riverina. Moderate patchy rains are
likely during October and November, and good general rains
during December.
General rains are also likely in Victoria during Sep-
tember, with the possibility of flooding in the Murray and
tributaries. Reasonably good follow-on rains should continue
during October and November.
Apart from light to moderate rains on the west coast
and in the interior, there should be general rains in South
Australia during September, and moderate patchy rains in
the agricultural areas during October.
The south-west and south coast of Western Australia
should receive good rains in September, hut, apart from
light rains in the Gascoyne and goldfields areas, rainfall is
likely to be patchy elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


jßaiiJt ist the
Fultil*C
We can all agree that this is a very
wonderful age.
Never before in history have a few years
produced so much to make for the happiness and
comfort of the human race; or have there been
such developments in research and engineering,
such a quickening of discovery upon discovery,
such a flowering from the buds of knowledge that
came to us from other centuries.
Now, all this must gear our present activities
and our future plans.
And —applying it to the national task that is
ahead of us in Australia—l believe that we’ve to
start learning how to live ahead of the times.
We cannot be content to accept events as they
come; we’ve to anticipate them, prepare intelligently
to meet them, and refuse to be stopped or staggered
by the incidental problems that rise before us on
the way.
There are cardinal things to consider. More
food must be produced for ourselves and for the
world, more homes built, highways formed, water
stored —and so on. In our market dealings we
must respect competition, and go out to meet it.
Here is the rich balance of it all: In an age
of performance that will open up still greater
marvels in man’s conquest of the earth under God,
we are the fortunate few to whom it has been
given to “conquer a continent.”
Were we to fail in making the most of this
opportunity there could be no excuse of time or
gift or breed.
But failure is a term unthinkable so long as
we have the spirit, the determined will, to give
Australia the love and loyalty it commands.
That is contained in one word—Faith. It
implies a belief in our mission in life, in those
around us, and in the work we share in common.
And it is something quite different from the
slow presumption that would say, “Enough for
today, let tomorrow look after itself.”
////asf^z
R. Spitfire squadron,
destroyed two JUBS’s, «an Mejo9
and other aircraft over Malta in
July. 1942. It is extremely difficult
to compare decorations with those
given by other countries—all have
their different standards and reasons
for awards. The usual procedure
between allies is an agreement for
mutual interchange of awards on a
numerical basis.
Brief Answers
To J.J.R., whose query regarding
the horse Great Performance was
answered in B. 19/6/’57: If you
contact. The Bulletin, yos will hear
something to your advantage—.
S. The use of this gum in
ice-cream is a recent practice in
Australia, and is being watched by
the health authorities. It is not
exactly objectionable, but is more of
a tiller than a good food. Manu-
facturers are unwilling to make any
statement regarding quantities, etc.*
so you should experiment for your-
self. If making ice-cream for sale,
you must consult the food experts
ol the Pure Foods Department in
your capital, as it may be forbidden.
For home use, would prefer not
to use it. It has been used in the
past in the making of gum-pastilles,
and as an excipient in medicine. For
further information, consult a good
work on confectionery in your
public library... .V.J.S.: The
man on that particular horse is none-
other than Eddie Ward
H.W.K.: fl) The annual subscrip-
tion is £l. (2) 10s E.K..C.:
(From Arthur Yates and Co. Pty : ,
Ltd.) Suggest spraying wTui
a white oil called Albarol. The
best method of using this is with
lib. washing-soda to 4gals. spray.
First mix the quantity of oil
iequired, then for every 4gals. of
made-up solution add lib. washing-
soda. Dissolve the soda in boiling
water and mix with the spray solu-
tion. No matter if you spray it on
hot. Do this about twice in a fort-
night, and it will clean up all the
pests on your trees. If you can’t
get Albarol. you can use the wash-
ing-soda on its own—2lb. to 4gals.
of water, dissolved in boiling water
and sprayed on hot. Cost ol
Albarol is 2s. lid. a half-pint. A
leaflet on the cultivation of citrus
fruits has been forwarded.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
blame and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contribution ; voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
J.A.M.: At least that is the
only poem this week to open with
the line, “They have burned my
umbilicus with a torch”... . I.McV.:
“Waltzing Matihja” needs no extra
verses.. . .L,RJB.: Wehad asuspicion
that after the “breeze” you would
get to the “trees”.... A.K.l Can-
not understand your strange com-
plaint at being forced to sit on the
floor to listen to the gramophone.
. .J.N.: Yarn about creaking
floorboards and poltergeists of no
earthly value.... P.T.: Slender....
E.L.F.: Rewrite in third-person.
. ~.M.W.: “Fly away, ’flu” has
f1ew....L.G.E.: The characters
never really come to life... .8.K.:
“If not used, could I have the MS.
back?” With alacrity S.P.D.:
Unpolished, but there are a few
sparkling grains... .G.G.: Slenderer.
A.H.L.: Enthusiastic but
ragged.. ...M.N.: Tumbled off the
editorial scales into the basket....
A. 8.: Palsied.... R.K.N.: Stutters
along like an adding-machine,...
S.T.: “Charlie’s Damper” cold and
flabby... .W.M.A.: Fistfuls of
superlatives will get you nowhere.
.... JJ.: Stilted.... P.N.F.: “When
morn’s gold fingers slice the eastern
sky” was a promising start, but the
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.]
next nine stanzas! ... .K.G.: Wait
a few centuries, and try again....
F.E.: Too racy A.P.R.: Needs
more vigorous treatment... .M.T.:
Just missed... .W.K..: Wobbly as a
half-set je11y.... Y.S.: Declined
your jubilant whoops of “Aus-
tralia wilt survive!” A.W.:
Murky construction.... D.P.:
Uninteresting... .H.D.: Terrible.
M.I.: Go easy on those'adjec-
tives... .T.T.E.: That plot’s older
than the hi 115.... 1.G.: One. or two
touches of realism.... H.J.:
Declined your song about the “dew-
oappled fir-trees” and the “gambol-
ling centaurs”...-C.J.R.: Almost
made it W.L.L.: Change metre,
stir well and resubmit N. 8.:
Slides along like a recalcitrant snail.
R.D.: Just missed.. . .O.B.:
Must you rhyme “frieze” with
“breeze”? .... L. 0.: “Beach Etude”
overstrung... .V.N.: Hard to
swallow.... E.Q.: Junk-collector’s
item S.G.: “1 am open to
detailed criticism.” Wide open..,.
E.L.R.: “The Forest Creek”
trickled out J.K.: Paltry
A.F.H.: By the time you've
oescribed the surroundings, etc.,
there’s little left worth saying
M.M.: Clatters along like a Coogee
tram D.J.: Fourth-rate
UVD : The rest of your story
failed to match the racy opening.
S.S.: Underwater grapplings
with giant stingray not for u 5....
t M.: The gremlins got that MS.
A.J.H.: This much, for the
cause of Alt:
... .R.C.: “Bluey’s Famous Stew”
is a fearsome concoction... . K.R. :
The time is appropriate for a bit of
your panegyric:
This blameless woman, set on England’s
throne
by England’s people and the Common-
wealth,
crowned with a diadem that signifies
not empty pomp alone but pageantry
dear to ns alb why not ?
N.HJ.: Just a sort of swish-
swash Rico: Three lines,
then:
Barrow, barrow,
Small and narrow.
How the motorist you harrow . . .
1.8.: “Outback Summer” very
empty... ,E.S.: Well enough for
private circulation; slight for
publication.... D.M.: Thin.
SUNDAY SUNSET
With mingled joy and sorrow
The different views you’ll find,
Some are thinking of tomorrow
Back to the daily grind.
Then there are they
To whom it means—artistic inspiration.
They’ve waited for it through the day
In patient hesitation.
They climb on to the highest peaks,
With them they bring their oils,
The Nature-lover’s he who seeks
To capture Nature spoils.


years later went overseas to observe
and study, mainly in the University at
Berlin and at the Sorbonne in Paris.
He came back to Grammar, marriage,
a housemastership, ten or eleven years
at a Chatswood prep.-school; then
back again in 1924 to Grammar, where
for the next 24 years he remained,
with a break m 1939 for anotber tri P
abroad which gives him four more
cnapiers.
On his return he was made head-
master following the death of Dett-
mann in 1940; and the following three
chapters, on schoolmastering in one of
Australia’s foremost schools, are
perhaps the best in the book. Rather
quiet and obviously hard to shock, he
shares the general amazement of an
older generation at at least one mani-
festation of the new:-
Once when walking through the
big schoolroom I passed a group of
small boys talking animatedly.
“What’s the trouble?” I asked. The
reply was surprising. “X says we’re
getting too much Sibelius and not
enough Brahms.”
He defends private schools from
accusations of fostering snobbery,
SOCRATES
By Francis Webb
Daylight calls me to birth; above nry pallet
The new, ancient voice dispels the wheed-
Jings of sleep.
Tight to the breast of cold dark upright
night
Cleaves the immanence, the Form, of living
light
As light is of the returning immortal soul.
Sisyphus heaves again at the sun: Furies
huddle eastward: „
Watch that miry cloud working, glistering in
a sweat:
Thumping heart and lacerated hands.
His naked pitiful flesh, so knotted, so
engrossed,
Bulges past bars of cold dark upright night:
A moment he leans and gasps against nry
wall.
He warrts no pity, he knows all, he is
possessed
By tire immense rolling tumbling ball of fire.
His eyes sparkle: O, this time all!—and
lightning.
Listen, he gropes for breath, for a purchase
in lazy air—
Arid thunder in the dawn.
So they wake, wander, are born; they know
all, they ask no pity.
Tight to the breast of cold dark upright
night
Cleaves the immanence, the Form, of living
light
As pain is of the returning immortal soul.
Make these four walls a summer: I am
leaving
For the dark cold upright wars, must have
your grace
Slutrg on nry shoulder. Or another little war
In the mild climate of your arms; I front the
grieving
Song of the long spear that is your lifted
voice,
And coolly read the outcome in your eye,
my star.
Our years together have goldened as the corn
Offered to Diana, grain by sweet-smelling
grain.
Rue and thyme are the priestly words; the
Huntress warms
Your veins for action. O yes, I shall return
To the wars, that knapsack on my back
again,
And I must have you always bearing arms.
Tight to the breast of cold dark upright
night
Cleaves the immanence, the Form, of living
light
As Icve is of the returning immortal soul.
Chains grapple with me gently, as old
friends,
The subtle iron lends its tinklings to my
strove.
And it is all of love; for I see Andromeda
musing,
Given back to entire music, swathed in frail
silver links:
They chime, climb or sink with gain or fail
of pulse,
And all about, incurious hulls and the long
long flutes of the sea.
Tight to the breast of cold dark upright
night
Cleaves the immanence, the Form, of living
light
As sound is of the returning immortal soul.
Anger in Heaven: earth quakes, the seas are
rising;
The temple reels like a drunken giant on
the plain,
A ship turns over and over.
What are these nine men doing? See, they
pass
From one to another dates and figs and wine.
Cinders are falling, waves dash themselves to
pieces,
The sun glares red.
See, the nine murmur, gesturing with the
hand, as if today
Were another day of the pigeons wheeling
prayerfully
Along alleyways of heaven above the market-
place.
Hour after hour after hour they sit and talk
Till all Olympus rolls over gently and sleeps,
Till earth heaves one dispassionate sigh and
lies still,
Till ocean returns to his nuptials with pale-
breasted land.
The nine have examined the soul; towards
them a hawser-
jerks back one faithful wretch from his
broken ship:
He splutters and whimpers of miracles,
coughing salt;
The sun smiles simply
Upon pillars reared up proudly, bravely
windward.
Tight to the breast of cold dark upright
night
Cleaves the immanence, the Form, of living
light
As words are of the returning immortal soul.
Those last long days; the city drank deeply
of rumor and fear and hate,
And yet I would not drink.
The song of that ribald group: let me stitch
it together for them.
Xanthippe is a shrew.
Her portly husband comes
Broadside into view
With passage on the drums:
Be they water or air or earth or fiery heat.
Pot-bellied husbands wipe their strutting
feet.
All sophistries are true,
We live on casual crumbs,
I argue God with you,
Our child is doing sums.
But alter treading all the nonplussed street
Pot-bellied husbands wipe their strutting
feet.
Together—a likely two:
She croaks, he ha’s and hums,
Their faces turning blue
With argued odiums:
“You save your soul, I darn this something
sheet.”
Pot-bellied husbands wipe their strutting
feet.
Tight to the breast of cold dark upright
night
Cleaves the immanence, the Form, of living
light
As laughter is of the returning immortal
soul.
The sun made for my childhood’s eyes a
temple
Heaped with pure offerings, a history
Of kind white lambs absorbed in games, the
simple
Hide and seek of flower or pride of tree.
Clouds came to him, flowers wasted pale and
old,
Lambs bled and bleated, storm railed bitterly
At colors —yet I rode the travelling gold
Of lightning, bleeding, weeping, singing, free.
A candle. Words of the judges have undone
My humble secret. Let it be said aloud
That while I wrestled with the sum, the sun,
Mortality came to him like a clouds
I confess connivance, weeping, on my knees:
My heart sang with you, Aristophanes.
Tight to the breast of cold dark upright
night
Cleaves the immanence, the Form, of living
light
As irony is of the returning immortal soul.
Words of Crito will hover above the hour of
death
And I must take and drink;
I think of beauty and last sayings.
They warn that the free foot, made for stout
leather and the road,
Grows deadly heavy, as an . ancient very
tiresome thing
Out of the box of the crooning old mother
with her simples. „
And next the faces, the tongues of love, all,
all
.Withdraw into stillness, are elided by a
darkness.
Tight to the breast of cold dark upright
night
Cleaves the immanence, the Form, of living
light
As silence is of the returning immortal mIL


RIBBONS IN HER HAM
bij DOROTHY LUCIE SANDERS
Author of “WATERFALL ”
In this latest novel about the now famous Montgomery family the author
tells the story of the beautiful and tempestuous Laura, cousin of Theodora, who
is the storyteller. We meet the entire enchanting family, feel for them in their
ups and downs and are introduced to their Irish Cousin Danny who is to play
such a large part in the lovely Laura’s life.
Obtainable from all Booksellers
Retail Price in Australia 18 /9d. (Postage extra)
HODDER AND STOUGHTON LIMITED
Book buying is easy at GRAHAME’S
If you enjoy browsing, when you buy books, you should pay us a visit
because we have books by the thousands, on all subjects, arranged for
quick reference and handy selection.
If you prefer to discuss your book requirements, whether they be books
for leisure, books for study or books for gifts, our trained assistants will
be pleased to help.
If unable to call our Mail Order section is at your service. Mail orders
and magazine subscriptions receive prompt attention.
®pg||THE GRAMME BOOK CO.
Pty. Ltd. Cnr. Elizabeth Street and
n
'wsm-:
r
Pty. Ltd. Cnr. Elizabeth Street and
Martin Place, Sydney. BW 2261
BOOKS
MAGAZINE
SUBSCRIPTIONS
L.P. RECORDS
MUSIC
records his pleasure at discovering that
his end-of-year talk, on the “Three
L’s” —language, liquor and lasses—
was paralleled by that of the head-
master of a girls’ school in another
State on the “Three R’s”—rum, rouge
and risk. He takes a tolerant view of
the problems of youth in the speaking
of English:—
When I explained to a boy that
“he and I” should be “him and me”
[in the sentence “It isn’t possible for
he and I to go out together”] he
remarked ingenuously and respect-
fully, “I suppose you’re right, sir,
but I wouldn’t like to say that in a
drawing-room.”
Deeply convinced of the value of
religious teaching, he has a completely
obliterating answer to criticism of
Sydney Grammar as a non-defiomina-
tional school: —
I was interested in a remark made
to a visiting clergyman who wished
to find a school for his ward from
overseas. He was advised by a
prominent local clergyman to place
the boy at the Grammar School,
“which,” he said, “sends us more
applicants for Holy orders than any
of the church-schools.”
The book is completed by extracts
from the author’s radio-addresses and
speeches to school-dinners, Sydney
Rotary, the Headmasters’ Conference,
etc.; but, alas, the talk on “The Three
L’s” is not among them.
Australian Place-names
A Guide to the Pronunciation of
Australian Place-names (Angus and
Robertson) is a book prepared for the
A.B.C. by its Standing Committee on
Spoken English under the chairman-
ship of Professor R. G. Mitchell, who
contributes an introduction. It lists
some 3500 towns in all States, from
Abbeville to Zillmere, supplies a
double guide to pronunciation (in the
forms of phonetic symbols and also
phonetic spellings in ordinary letters)
and, for the most part, is sensibly based
on local pronunciations.
It is no use, for instance, telling the
inhabitants of Tonkley Onkley that
they ought to pronounce themselves
Tonkley Onkley. They call themselves
too-klee ong-klee, and that is how this
book advises that the word should
be pronounced.
The list is chiefly intended for broad-
casters here and abroad. But it should
also be of some value in clarifying, or
adding to, the bewilderment of New
Australians, who must learn to pro-
nounce Coogee in New South Wales
as cu-jee (“u” as in “pull”) and Coogee
in Westralia as coo-jee; and the
ordinary reader, though the book
hardly purparts to cater for him, may
be interested to browse through it.
It is surely pleasant to know that
we have such places as Amamoor,
Angorichina and Araby; Baan, Bam-
baroo and Bumberry; Carrawabitty,
Cathundral and Coocooboonah;
Jackadgeiy, Jiggi and Jilliby; Widgee,
Willie Ploma and Wirha; and perhaps
it is useful, if only to win a bet, to
know that Wangi Wangi is pronounced
(of course) wonn-jee wonn-jee.
Professor Mitchell’s introduction
briefly touches on the romance of our
place-names—the “wry humor” of “The
Perisher”; the names that perpetuate
the memory of historical happenings
or personages, such as Benelong Point
and the Hume Highway—but this, with
the meanings of the aboriginal words,
could easily be expanded into a book
on its own. There is no place here,
for example, for all the colorful creek-
names which, so precious was every
drop of water to the pioneers, are
unique to this country.
Reviewed Briefly
Lost Person: Valerie White (Heine-
mann). A not-very-mysterious mystery
competently written by an author who
is also an actress, a dress-designer and
a 8.8. C. broadcaster. It is about the
rich, fashionable international world
and is itself glossy, superficial and
fairly entertaining.
* * * *
The Spiral Road: Jan de Hartog
(Hamilton). The life of a young doctor
in the Dutch East Indies health-
service—in scenes which range from
Amsterdam to the deep jungles of
Java, Papua and New Guinea—is the
direct theme of this long, gripping
story. It is also an impressive psycho-
logical study of the effect of the jungle
on the mind.
* * * *
Cape Summer: Alan Ross (Hamish
Hamilton). Alan Ross wrote “Aus-
tralia 55,” labelled by some critics as
the best book on the 1954-55 English
cricket-tour of Australia. This one,
sub-titled “and the Australians in
England,” deals with Australia’s 1956
tour and England’s visit to South
Africa straight after. The second part,
in the main of the Tests in South
Africa, is perhaps of the more interest
now to Australians, in view of Aus-
tralia’s own visit to South Africa this
season. Intermixed with the cricket
are elegantly worded thoughts and
asides of the country through which
he passes, shipboard life, etc.


DIESEL ENGINES
for Immediate Delivery
THE MOST ATTRACTIVELY PRICED DIESEL IN AUSTRALIA
Slow speed with large
cylinder bore
Rosch type fuel equipment
•
Dynamically balanced
crankshaft and fly wheel
with minimum vibration
•
Easy starting in all
weathers
Maximum power with low
fuel consumption
•
Heat treated “Meehanite”
alloy castings throughout
m
m **
mm
MARS
5 H.P.
Low fuel consumption
All wearing parts easily
detachable
Mass produced factory
replacements always
available
•
Mars Overhaul Kit provides
Cylinder Liner, Piston
rings, pins and bushes
fitted ready for use
•
Almost vibration>free with
minimum wear and tear
•
Automatic Thermostat
Temperature Control
SELF-SERVICE REBUILD. KITS AVAILABLE
SOLD & SERVICED BY THE MANUFACTURERS
MARS
MACHINE TOOl
MANFG. CO. PTY. ITD.
BRIDGE STREET VALLEY BRISBANE
W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd.. Perth. S.A.: W. H. Butler & Co.. 134 Waymouth St.. Adelaide. TAS.: Perkins Pty. Ltd.. 345 Collins Street.
Hobart. INDIA (Bombay Province): R. S. Mehta & Co.. Ali Chambers. Port Bombay. PHILIPPINES: The Eornshaws Dock & Honolulu Iron Works.
Manila;
