

i
ml
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
<~L2>
The Bulletin
Beginning —DUNLEAVY’S GYM-MM 42
Wednesday, March 27, 1957
Price I.'-
THE AUSTRALIA!! NEWSPAPER
Bettered in Australia for transmission by post ns a nowspoper.
, MEMORIES of Charles Dickens, the great novelist, may be eiiconnKied
% SSSmSS*; Borough
Of Holborn, London.
The house now serves ns a library and museum of Dickens’ relics and
is the headquarters of the Dickens Fellowship.
Among the man, rare be 2S
street is a page of the immortal !C I n the same room can be seen
in the actual room where it was wri ■ ood » on the day before
the fable at which Dickens was writing Edwin Drooo
o . u , ctroptc have been renamed and buildings
Although some of the neaiby ■ - _| aces associated with
» s -a srs -wss* -r r
Charles Dickens, the son of a navy »
February 7, 1812, at PoTlsea. 1‘ From 3 827-28 he picked up
London, where he later recent c i e rk but later turned to
S3SW- -porter f
ZZXS. Dickens died
pn June 9, 1870, at Gadshill in Kent.
No. 342: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppclt.
DICKENS' HOUSE, 48 DOUGHTY ST., LONDON


£lOO PRIZE
SHORT STORY
COMPETITION
CLOSING DAY 30th JUNE, 1957
2500 words!
Write for particulars to:
MESSENGER OFFICE,
7 Lansdowne St., Melbourne, C. 2, Vic.
BOOK HUNTER, Bo* 2671, G.U.0., Owe*.
A service for reader*. That difficult to obtain
relume, let us find It for you— fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if *□<*
cessful.
The Red Page
THE FACE OF SYDNEY
The advantage of Morton Herman’s
The Architecture of Victorian Sydney
(Angus and Robertson) is to present
the reader with a pair of new eyes.
For years, for example, this reviewer,
borrowing Norman Lindsay’s old
studio, lived nextdoor to No. 10 Bridge-
street, Sydney, yet never once realised
■ —or not in so many words—that this
venerable pile “shows ornate cement-
rendered brickwork.” So, upon inspec-
tion, it does. And Phoenix House, just
down the street a little and looking at
the moment as if it has been bombed,
has a couple of sculptured figures
roosting high on the facade; which
also, unseen, must have been there for
years.
Mr. Herman makes the point, which
indeed must have occurred to many a
city stroller who happened for once to
raise his eyes from the pavements and
the hordes of happy shoppers all trying
to knock him down, that Sydney exists
on two levels. There are the modem
shop-fronts which in more ways than
one deceive the eye; there are the
awnings and verandas which Mr.
Herman, like all other connoisseurs of
architecture, objects to—they spoil the
shape of the buildings, and it would be
better for people to get cooked on hot
days and drowned on wet. And, above
the shopfronts and the awnings, is the
real Sydney, the genuine face of the
buildings, decorated with every
possible squiggle of brick and cement,
scooped into arches, chopped into
squares and triangles, ornamented with
rams, Britannias, symbolic nudes and
strange disembodied heads, luxuriant
as a tropical forest.
It is, says Mr. Herman, still a
Victorian city; surrounded by Vic-
torian suburbs:—
Here and there in the commercial
centre appears a towering building
of steel and glass somewhat like a
gold tooth in a discolored Victorian
mouth. A few tattered early colonial
buildings, like pale ghosts from a
vanished age, still have useful lives ;
but elsewhere the town halls, the
cathedrals, many of the hospitals,
houses, and most of the office build-
ings, came into being while Queen
Victoria lived .... Stretching mainly
westward from the centre of the
city is a core of Victorian
suburbs ....
Whether Mr. Herman is altogether
a public benefactor in thus giving us
new eyes to see our Victorian city is
open to question. It cannot be said—
though there were wonderfully high,
cool, spacious rooms and cedar stair-
ways in those old, buildings—that No
10 Bridge-street really looks much
more beautiful for our awareness of its
ornate facade; and the more one con-
templates the Town Hall in what Mr.
■ Herman himself calls its “magnificent
ugliness,” the more one wonders why
and how such a conglomeration of the
“Gothic .revival” ever came to be put
together. If there is any particular
reason to admire the Night Refuge and
Soup Kitchen, 529 Kent-street—except
as a possible refuge; for soup—it will
elude most observers; and likewise—
except again as a possible refuge; for
beer—with the Harold Park Hotel at
Forest Lodge, which Mr. Herman
modestly describes as “another
curiosity of Victorian architecture.”
But then it is at least interesting to
learn who built the Town Hall, if not
why he did it. It was started in 1866
by one J. H. Wilson—as the result, it
is alarming to be told, of an architec-
tural competition. Wilson was only
one of many architects who had a hand
m it at different times: Albert Bond,
f. Bradbridge, E. Bradbridge, David
Mcßeath, Charles Sapsford, John
Hennessy and George Mcßae.
It is pleasant to see the fat round
belly of one’s favorite pub in Woolloo-
mooloo reproduced in one of Mr.
Herman’s photographs; and it is
intriguing to learn about, and to see
photographed, the group of houses in
Johnson-street, Annandale, decorated
with piercing spires and known as “the
witch houses”—“they show just how far
architectural whimsy can go in a
romantic age.”
And—we must never underrate
our grandparents; where else did we
get our own brilliance?—there are also
the triumphs and delights of Victorian
architecture: whether it is a panel in the
iron gates of the Colonial Secretary’s
office, flowering like a frozen sun-
flower, or the larger attractions of the
University buildings and the muscular
strength of St. Mary’s cathedral—
which, says Mr. Herman, William
Wardell, who built Melbourne’s St.
Patrick’s, worked on for twenty years;
the towers were not completed until
this century, and the spires are still to
come.
Besides Wardell, the most important
name to emerge from Mr. Herman’s
survey is that of Edmund Blacket,
famous for his churches and also
responsible for Mort’s colossal wool-
store at Circular Quay. Blacket, who
settled in Sydney by accident on his
way from Yorkshire to New Zealand,
“was to become, under much more
competitive conditions,” says Mr
Herman, as important as the great
colonial architect, Francis Greenwa?”
assemble the material for hi s
?omn^'5 erman says he “viewed”
-o,oo° buildings inspected 6000 and
photographed 700. He travelled
within the confines of Victorian Sydney
1 00 miles by car and 83 on foot The
research writing and proof-reading of
the book took “1086 author-hours”
This reviewer took four hours to read
it, another two hours to review it and
walked 75 yards to’have another look
at 10 Bridge-street; and is profoundly
grateful to Mr. Herman for every
reviewer-minute of it.
The Bolshoi Ballet
Ballet in Moscow Today, by Helene
Bellew (Thames and Hudson), is an
account of the Bolshoi company by a
dancer and writer well known in Aus-
tralia—she is, of course, Helene
Kirsova.
Mrs. Bellew, who now lives in Paris,
visited the Soviet in 1956 to gather the
material for this book, and is claimed
to be the first Western ballet-authority
to have been given complete access
behind the scenes at the Bolshoi
Theatre.
What she found was, in brief, superb
dancers in a stupendous theatre, the
stage “dwarfing” most Western
theatres; and a repertory strangely con-
fined to the repetition of the classics...
“The whole vast field of ballet-produc-
tion has been almost completely
untouched since the departure of
Diaghilev.”
The handsome book, illustrated with
many photographs, contains a survey
of the dancers—Ulanova gives the
observer the feeling of “watching a
devoted believer at prayer”—and of
the ballets; some of which, though they
may be classics in Russia, will be new
to many Australian balletomanes.
Coast to Coast
The jacket of Henrietta Drake-
Brockman’s edition of Coast to Coast,
1955-1956 (Angus and Robertson),
with a remark on “the ironic accent
and emphasis that have become an
inherent quality of Australian writing,”
startled the reviewer with a sudden
feeling of being seen as others see.
Having read as contributions to
“The Bulletin” some six or seven
thousand Australian short-stories in the
past eight years, and having caused
most of the short-stories in this
{Continued on page 66)


There 9 s a New Name in Restaurants
THE ARANDA ROOM
*
mm'M
! I
mWr\
mw m
c>
•■: V
||
«.\ 3f •<£ -
rr* 4 '>:
, r'Nhlati&ar«
9
X
■ . .mi
IT<
HP
rv- \
M
T% A* l
twa#
s
sV. 'la (
r ~
/. I afet
m
»■
fmro#.
/
8
o
3a
te
(VC
fXv'iFi
«.w(
C*>P
'•&X
r x
$
fii
& ■
it
vmsmsmm
Mk !
M
r
n
«
wife
LI
> . :v>
£
?*&, b
J£
. *
/'
-/
XfUt
V
w.% <■ v ~
X/r-V-
-<*• _
ri v <
To-day, high up and away from the noise and dust of the city streets, our magnificent new “Aranda
Room” Restaurant is open on the sth floor. Served by 6 fast electric lifts from the Pitt Street entrance,
The “Aranda Room” is the type of restaurant you’ve been looking for. Quiet, quick, yet with a
smart club-like atmosphere, where you can gossip over a cup of tea or talk business over a perfectly-
prepared meal—enjoyed all the more for wines and ales served
at the correct temperature —make it your next rendezvous in town.


The Bulletin
Vol. 78—No. 4024
Wednesday, March 27, 1957
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
DEFENCE URGENCY
THE most important feature of the
Parliamentary session (outside the
economic sphere) promises to be
reorientation of defence policy.
If what the daily press agrees was
told privately to the Government
caucus in Canberra last week is true,
the position isn’t good. The Minister
for Defence, it is alleged, outlined the
proposed changes in defence arrange-
ments: a reduction in the intake of
National Service trainees from 39,000
to 12,000, the objective being to relieve
a large number of regular troops
employed in training for other purposes,
and to transfer some of the expendi-
ture on citizen-training to the purchase
of newer weapons, which seem to be
all aerial and spectacular and
American.
It is “believed that announcements
are imminent” of the purchase by the
Commonwealth of the huge Cl3o
Lockheed Hercules transports, which
are capable of carrying over 90 fully-
equipped troops, and of 30 Lockheed
FIO4 Starfighters, which are “believed”
to be capable of travelling at up to
2000 m.p.h., “in both level and
climbing flight.”
Air Minister Fred Osborne is at
present in the U.S. discussing aerial
defence, the discussions allegedly
including such matters as the right to
manufacture these complicated gazelles
of the air, which some observers are
inclined to regard as showpieces,
spectacular but of indefinite practical
use in actual warfare by reason of the
limitations of human brains and the
increasing electronic accuracy of
mechanically-aimed and radar-guided
missiles. These already are at the
stage at which they are capable in
theory (and in elementary practice, at
least) of pursuing and destroying an
aircraft no matter what its speed or
how complicated its course.
The United Kingdom is scrapping
much of its fighter-building programme
developed over many arduous years.
British bombing programmes are
going the same way as the fighter pro-
grammes, save, for the present, in the
Navy, and nearly all of the new
programmes are based on guided
missiles and atomic warheads and
bombs carried automatically, aimed
automatically and steered auto-
matically; on fantastic fire-power of
new automatic self-propelled weapons
and nuclear artillery.
When it is remembered that in the
period of the war during which Hitler
used the V-weapons nearly 15 years
ago he.succeeded in inflicting enormous
damage at long range on English cities
and industrial-centres and in killing
50,000 people in an age when such
missiles and electronics and radar-
guidance were only in their infancy,
there is obviously a grim prospect
ahead in this line, and one which calls
for special consideration in relation to
countries (like Australia) of small
resources and wide areas.
Its special problem is defence that
calls not for reductions of trained
military manpower but for increase and
spread so that there can be no import-
ant strategical or tactical centre which
has not a nucleus of people specially
trained in techniques of dealing with
the emergencies of atomic attack.
Because of the existence of the
Rocket Range and its experimental
adjuncts and of the concentration of
the bulk of the population of the
continent in a huddle of large, luscious
and complacent cities on the east coast
dependent on two or three main sources
of power and industry, Australia is
among the easiest countries in the
world for anybody within range of
it to cripple in short order in atomic
warfare.
Also, it is one of the most tempting
of targets, since the taking of it would
outflank the ring of defence which is
being built globally within range of
the main centres of Russian and
Chinese power. The establishment of
an enemy base here would dislocate
world arrangements. In the light of
these facts, it is essential that every
aspect of the new global tactics and
strategy should be most carefully
estimated before any plans are made.
Russian submarine fleets, especially
if they can be operated from Indonesia
and Antarctica, are a threat to Aus-
tralia and New Zealand cities, ports
and communications; and Soviet “anti-
colonialism” pressure has already been
a successful weapon.
Soviet military and diplomatic
advances have had an effect on both
India and Ceylon. Bandaranaike has
already announced that he is meditat-
ing laying claim to the site of new
British aerial Indian Ocean bases —the
Maidive Islands.
To prevent Britain holding these is
a natural corollary to Russian suc-
cesses, accomplished with the help
of the United States, which have taken
Suez out of the control of the great
nations of the world and placed it in
the hands of a pliant and dishonest
Moscow tool, an adventuring dictator
of the worst and most unreliable type,
and achieved the destruction of British
and French influence in the Arab
countries.
Australian defence rests on much
more than the provision of some
fighters of spectacular speeds and
rocket-launching sites and a few
thousand half-trained men backed by
a couple of Army brigade-groups with-
out anchorage to anything larger in
the way of manpower.
It calls for a bigger population and
labor-force. It calls for provision of
adequate sea-transport independent of
others for building and maintenance.
It calls for some general training,
which might begin in schools, for
atomic emergency, which is the kind
of danger that civil populations will
undoubtedly most have to fear in the
first stages of any war, especially since
the only kind of war which is likely to
menace us is global war.
It calls for a plan to live isolated
from the rest of the world if such a
war comes and for the kind of action
which will be vital if invasion, aerial
or otherwise, should be achieved. It
also calls for a scheme of defence
which will be absolutely integrated in
world defence and will not be
dependent on the “toothless grin of
Seato,” in which there is—as yet—•
little communal strength.
At present there is nothing to indicate
that there is any real planning at
Ministerial level on these points,
though it would be unjust to deduce
that there isn’t in fact.
Still, it is a matter about which
the country is entitled to know the
broad outlines, since, despite the com-
placency of a lot of people, all the
symptoms suggest that the Communist
plans for world attack are growing
daily and that Moscow is finding
temptation in the division of the
Western world, which it has been
successful in achieving through the sub-
version of the Arab countries and the
naivete of Mr. Dulles and his associates.
It is an aim for which it has worked
for many years—fruitlessly until now—
as a condition precedent to world war.
It is to be hoped that when Mr.
Menzies. makes his statement on
defence it will cover the broad issues
and not merely the mechanical side
of the question. It is not satisfactory
that defence policy should reach the
public through leakages from party
meetings and the surmises of the press.


BARNACLE BURTON
“I’ll come down and let you in-
I’ll come down and let you in..."


PLAIN ENGLISH
Joe for Governor
When the American election-season is in
full swing posters such as “Bloggs for
Governor” are familiar features of the
landscape and no one gives a hoot —
except those who are shouting “Scraggs
for Governor.” Political? Of course it’s
political. In U.S.A. a State Governor-
ship is a political appointment. On elec-
tion-day Bloggs wins, or Scraggs wins.;
then life goes on quietly for another two
years.
In Australia we don’t see any “Bloggs
for Governor” posters. The nearest we
get to it are puff-pars hinting that
General Phizackerly or Sir Reginald
Oldsort is likely to be her Majesty’s
choice for State Governor, followed by
short items in a rival paper opining that
the appointment of the general can’t be
taken as a foregone conclusion, he being
a strict Parsee and the Queen an Angli-
can.
Polite papers don’t go much further
than that, but Jack Lang’s “Century, ’
not overpolite when discussing Premier
Cahill, has on many occasions in the
last few years accused him of having
Government House ambitions. Little
remarks such as this one (at the time the
vice-regal allowance was increased);
“That extra thousand for the Governor?
Gould it be that Joe has his eye on the
big castle in the Botanic Gardens?” Or
this (following a comment that the
Premier was getting a little tired of the
burly-burly of Labor politics): “His
main concern will be to see if he can’t
wangle himself the State Governor’s
job.”
Such comments as these a Premier can
ignore without much difficulty. One
isn’t forced to admit that one reads the
“Century.” But ten days ago the Sydney
Sunday papers brought up the subject—
and even a Premier can’t deny that he
reads the Sunday papers, if only for the
racing-results and the comics. Conse-
quently Mr. Cahill told the press last
week that at no stage had he ever con-
sidered being recommended for the post
as Governor. He said that the matter of
the appointment of a Governor was one
between himself and the Secretary of
State for Commonwealth Relations.
This disavowal is at least an assurance
that during the recent visit of the Earl of
Home no such conversation as this took
place:
LORD HOME: Got any good ideas
about your next Governor?
PREMIER CAHILL: Yes, me.
LORD HOME: Oh!
It did not, however, give any assurance
that no such conversation would occur
between now and August 1, the date on
which the term of Sir John Northcott is
due to expire. Asked whether it meant
that he would not be in the running for
the position, Mr. Cahill replied, “I am not
going to say that. I am not going to be
bound down.”
What sort of double-talk is this?
The only way Mr. Cahill can become
Sir John Northcott’s successor is by
recommending himself, either personally
or through Attorney-General Downing
(who “would know my views and could
speak for me”). On the Premier’s own
say-so he regards the appointment as a
matter between himself and the Common-
wealth Relations Office, so .there would
be no question of an affront to the Queen
or anyone else if he issued a simple state-
ment that his own name would not be on
any list submitted.
Federal Opportunities
The Federal session opened with a little
more pomp and entertainment than
usual, which wasn’t a bad thing,
especially seeing that Canberra was full
of overseas visitors on missions and
inquiry-bent.
The Governor-General’s speech, on the
whole, was sober against the back-
ground of a soaring wool-market, a good
season, a building-boom in the great
cities, and spending generally which is
only curbed by a tight Governmental
hold over the economy.
It emphasised that though the
improvement in the balance-of-payments
was satisfactory, it did not permit com-
placency. It admitted arrears in housing,
but promised that the Government would
do its utmost to catch up with any lag,
paying attention to the various govern-
ing factors —material supplies, money,
labor and costs of construction.
There was a promise that the Govern-
ment would actively pursue its objective
of an overall settlement in the Middle
East and an assurance that it was
essential that the differences between
Israel and Egypt should be disposed of
and the future of the canal settled—
objectives which seem unattainable save
by disposal of Nasser, a feat which
nobody seems brave enough to essay with
the menacing might of the Soviet Union
looming in the background.
There will be “special efforts to develop
the most efficient defence system that
Australia can sustain with its resources,”
with emphasis upon “mobility, hitting-
power and modern equipment.” The
programme is looked forward to eagerly
in some quarters and with apprehension
in others.
Air-links are to be strengthened with
the United Kingdom and the United
States—as they undoubtedly are being
already—and there is to be an “active
and balanced” immigration programme.
The Government will exercise its “lively
sense of the needs of the social services
and particularly of the pensioners of all
types who had no other sources of
income,” and would continue to review
its legislation.
But the speech was striking in not
making any forecast of major legislation,
save some dealing with wheat-research
and a five-year plan for the dairy-
industry, which has to be socialised a
little more.
On the whole, the programme is bare
enough to allow time for a really
thorough debate on the Estimates, the
structure and manning of departments
and the alarming growth of the public
services, Federal and State. Also, a very
thorough debate should be possible on
economic controls, import and otherwise,
and taxation in general, which needs an
airing, and the appalling financial condi-
tion of transport, which is rumbling to
disaster.
It was estimated a few days ago by
the Australian Chamber of Automotive
Industries that the Commonwealth stands
to spend a minimum of £1,624 million
within a decade on mere essential road-
making and repairs. That position alone
should merit very important discussions.
The Border Patrols
The depredations of the fruit-fly, which
refuses to recognise State borders, have
caused the Victorian Government to
stick an anti-social pin in the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture for allowing
the pest to penetrate Mildura orchards
and vineyards.
A few weeks ago at Corowa, on the
N.S.W.-Victorian border, would -be
fruit-fly killers of the N.S.W. Department
swooped on the town and ordered
destruction of backyard fruit-trees, or
the fruit thereof, en masse. To prove
that Federation only exists for Custom-
duties and income-taxes, the departmental
factotums said: “It’s only political, you
know.”
“Only political?” they were asked.
“Aren’t there flies in the New South
Wales fruit?”
“Of course there are, but it’s only
political.”
Which was no answer at all, except
that it threw into relief the battle which
is waged between one State department
and the same department in another State.
This departmental putting of one’s head
in the sand when another State’s welfare
is concerned is one big vote in favor
of Commonwealth control of agriculture
and stock. In the meantime, each State’s
officers are pointing into the heavens and
exclaiming: “That’s not our fruit-fly,
that’s yours,” or something to that effect.
THIS ISSUE
Today’s issue of The Bulletin is
of a new size and shape designed
for easier handling, easier reading
and a better display of black-and-
white art, for which The Bulletin
has always been noted.
The story of the change-over
appears on page 32. It remains to
be added that this issue of The
Bulletin, the national Australian
newspaper, is printed on paper made
in New Zealand, and on a press
built in Australia to Bulletin
specifications by Bell and Valentine,
a firm of Melbourne engineers
associated with R. Hoe and Crabtree,
Ltd., of London and Leeds.
This issue involves the first full-
time run of the new plant. So it is,
in effect, a “running-in” issue.


Falling Stones
The showers of stones which have
allegedly been falling on the Donaldson
property at Pumphrey (W.A.) have
evoked comparisons with similar
phenomena reported in the past. The
Guyra “ghost” has been unwrapped from
its shrouds again, and the Tarcutta
milking-machine which a few years ago
achieved notoriety by throwing its
disks at passers-by is suspected of having
some mysterious link with the Westralian
pebbles.
There was really no need to go back
so far ; the tie-up is with much more
recent happenings—current ones, in fact.
The Pumphrey stones —particularly the
ones which fall in tents or on places
where hoqses aren’t —are part of the
shower that is being thrown in connec-
tion with the housing-stortage. There
are so many of them that it’s no wonder
some have gone astray.
Even the throwers haven’t been quite
sure of their target. A few weeks ago
Senator Spooner was the main target;
then the Prime Minister began to receive
some of the fire, especially from the
Sydney press. In Pumphrey an attempt
was made to put the blame on one Penny,
who promptly obliged by making himself
scarce, hoping the stone-throwing would
cease. In Sydney (and Canberra) not
pennies, but pounds—millions of ’em —
were the alleged cause. And it wasn’t
their presence but their absence that
occasioned the shower of stones.
As the time approached for Menzies
to make a statement in the Reps, the
Sydney stones were all directed against
him. Spooner, it appeared, was doing his
best to get the millions, but Menzies
wouldn’t play. Menzies made his state-
ment, which merely said what he’d said
before. Then, surprisingly, just at the
time when Penny left Pumphrey, the
stones stopped falling around Menzies.
N. S. Wales Premier Cahill began to cop
them instead. A few were even seen
bouncing around Dr. Evatt, first because
he was allegedly going to open a book-
shop for Dr. Burton’s wife, and then
because he didn’t.
On Monday, although the weather was
fine, Cahill was protecting himself with
an umbrella. And in the West, despite the
departure of Penny, stones were falling
again on Pumphrey.
Blood Will Tell
It has proved a bad season for the
medical profession in Victoria. The
Medical Board has been under continual
criticism for its failure to register all but
a few Australian doctors ; the Govern-
ment has decided to by-pass it under its
new legislation ; and now the magistracy
has opened fire with some broadsides
against doctors’ reluctance to take blood-
tests of allegedly drunken drivers.
Doctors in public hospitals and others
in private practice dodge taking blood-
tests in these cases if they possibly can do
so, and their reasons are not pure pro-
fessional cussedness, as might be sup-
posed from Chief Secretary Rylah’s
assertion that the Government was
entitled to full co-operation from the
public hospitals “because of the grants
given them.”
In public hospitals blood-tests are taken
by the doctors on duty in the casualty
department, and this means that they are
not available instantly, as they should be,
for accident and urgent cases. If the
driver and his police escort are asked
to wait until it is safe to take the test
without interruption, the driver will have
sobered a little in the meantime.
But the doctors’ main concern is the
court hearing. The doctor making £he
test must be at the court of petty sessions
at 10 a.m. on the day the case is heard
and stay until it is ended, or until the
magistrate excuses him. Drunken-driving
cases are among the most serious heard in
the police-courts, and usually relegated to
the end of the list, which may mean an
afternoon hearing.
After he has given his formal evidence,
a doctor is liable to be cross-examined.
Such cases are fought tooth-ahd-claw.
The defence will attempt to discredit him.
After a few experiences of this
exasperating waiting and ordeal in the
witness-box, doctors are, naturally, chary
of such cases when they are brought into
the hospitals, or, if they are in private
practice, into their consulting-rooms.
It means that on the day of hearing
the hospital will be short-staffed, or they
will be without sleep, or that the private
practitioners’ patients will suffer. There is
also some embarrassing hedging by the
court in public about the doctors’
expenses, which are never adequate.
By the end of the case the doctor feels
that he, and not the fellow in the dock,
who may not have gone into the box,
has been on trial.
The Bermuda Conference
IBy “Ek Dura”]
The Bermuda Conference between Presi-
dent Eisenhower and Mr. Macmillan
ended after secret development. The
President went home at the weekend,
leaving Mr. Macmillan behind to meet the
Prime Minister of Canada, Mr. St.
Laurent. The “results” were announced
to the press by the secretary to the Presi-
dent. They have come out in 11 points,
which is three less than President Wilson
contrived ; and the U.S, apparently has
condescended to admit that Britain is
still a great Power and to treat it as an
equal. But it is quite likely that any
really important agreements have not
been revealed.
Little is said about what the U.K. is to
provide for the United States, but it
appears that the U.S. will provide Britain
with an intermediate guided missile with
a range of 1500 miles, which will be
handled in Britain by joint U.S.-British
teams —so far as existing legislation will
allow. Presumably the U.S. part of the
team will have to handle the war-heads.
Washington has agreed that it should
recognise the joint responsibility of the
two countries to co-ordinate their foreign
policies in the interests of peace and
justice, and there emerged a joint agree-
ment to keep down fusion and fission
explosions to a point at which the radia-
tion-content of the atmosphere would not
become dangerous, with a hope that
Russia would adopt the same policy. The
President and the P.M. agreed on a will-
ingness to allow Russian observers at
nuclear-bomb explosions, provided that
Russia would return the compliment,
(i Continued on page 13)
“They say we must leave here so they can explode a hydrogen-bomb to protect as from future aggression.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITWIMBLES INKS"
TN these days of enlightened
journalism there’s only one paper a
man daren’t take home —“The War Cry.”
If he does his wife is bound to accuse him
of hanging round the pubs again.—
“Jachris.”
♦j> *5
“Mac Hoots”: The "baby that was bora
on Sydney Harbor Bridge is to be called,
alas, not Bridget but Pauline. Pity it
wasn’t a boy when it could, of course,
have been Archie . ..
♦> *2*
“Mutton Jeff”: Tinpotty public
servants in Queensland have cars and
trucks, but stipendiary magistrates have
to bus and train their way around. One
of them told me a few years ago that
when he was on the southport court he
didn’t rake -the train from Brisbane,
but would get out on to the Pacific
Highway and thumb a lift. Why?
Because, he told me, you can get the best
pie-and-peas-for-a-shilling you ever had
in Beenleigh, on the road to Southport.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Sister Ellell”: Mention of Army
stamp of “D-D” on everything “troops
for the use of” did cover everything!
Even the panties for us gels. An oyster
shade was found suitable and
economical—for both the grey of the
Nursing Service, and the khaki of the
Awas; and most unattractive and
unfeminine they were . . . But it’s all
comparative; and until someone had
something more glamorous we took no
notice of them and accepted the position
as was ; besprinkled with the “D-broad-
arrow-D,” they were always known as
our “dee-dees.”
*
“Sam”: Sydney Grammar School
appears to be the eighth in seniority of
Australia's independent schools. In Dr. C.
E. W. Bean’s Here, My Son, the authorita-
tive work on the Australian G.P.S., the
dates of the oldest existing schools are
given as follows: Launceston Church
“He gets a new model every year.”
Grammar School, June, 1846 ; Hutchins
School, Hobart, August, 1846 ; Pulteney
School, Adelaide, May, 1848; St. Peter’s
School, Adelaide, 1849 ; Scotch College,
Melbourne, 1851; St. Patrick’s College,
Melbourne, 1854; Geelong Grammar
School, October, 1854; Sydney
Grammar, 1857. The King’s School,
Parramatta, was founded at the begin-
ning of the 1830’s, but later closed, and
was refounded in 1868. Australia’s oldest
existing State school is Fort-street, which
dates from 1849.
“Steve Hart”: W. M. Hughes with his
call to “populate or perish” would cer-
tainly rejoice at the country’s population-
progress. The first million took 71 years
after the arrival of the First Fleet; 2nd
million 19 years, 3rd million 12 years,
4th million 16 years, sth million 13 years,
6th million 17 years, 7th million 14 years,
Bth million —1939 to 1949 —took 10 years,
and the 9th million (1954) 5 years.
❖ ❖ i*
“D.A.”: lam enraptured to note that
Sydney “Herald,” teetering meretrici-
ously between Jonathan and Jonathon
as the hero of the first instalment of its
£2(XX)-prize serial, has decided (at
the 24th instalment, anyway) to stick by
Jonathon, even though he was obviously
born out of wedlock. David, King of
the jews, had a boy-friend named
Jonathan ; Fielding created a character
named Jonathan Wild ; Jonathan Swift
wrote Gulliver’s Travels; and the
Oxford Dictionary of English Christian
Names finds no place for Jonathon at all.
So, if any choice is to be permitted in
the matter it is simply that some prefer
a Jonathan apple to a Granny Smith or
even a Granny “Herald.”
♦j« *i* ♦>
“Smithy”: Passing the way of the
church in which I acquired a ball-and-
chain, I began feeling rather sentimental
and decided to have a locfk. Didn’t cross
the street: its contours have been bashed
about a bit and its chalice and baptismal
font have been replaced by a petrol-
bowser.
♦*4 ♦♦♦
“R.H.Q.”: Correction for “J.L.S.” (B.
6/3/’57). “Ciao Bello!” means “Hello,
good-looking,” not “Hello, beautiful.”
Bello is masculine of bella. Not the sort
of greeting we’d use, of course, but when
our unit was in Italy we noticed that no
Italian soldier could ever pass a jeep or
a truck without looking into the driving-
mirror and running his comb through his
hair and readjusting his cap. Literal
translations aren’t always the thing,
though. On a morning when I was under
the weather from the night before an
Italian asked me how I was. I racked my
brain for the translation of “half-dead.”
Judging by the chuckles and the
frequently-repeated phrase mezzo morto
throughout the day, I must have said
something very funny at a time when I
felt far from humorous.


“Ugh! Repellent !"
“Mugga Way”: Some of the ghosts of
Holyrood may decide to remain in the
cellar for ever now that Sir Edward
Stevenson, Keeper of the Queen’s Purse,
plans to serve Australian wine in the
Palace. The decision follows an Aus-
tralian wine festival in Edinburgh, in the
course of which a least 80 more
retailers were pursuaded to stock Aus-
tralian wines.
♦>
“Helldud”: The day before my wife
left for a holiday up north she asked me
to wire her sister. Since then (three
weeks ago) I’ve had two letters, in which
I have been addressed as “Dear Sir,” and
containing only instructions re accounts
to be paid, fowl-feeding, etc. In her latest
epistle, a real freezer, she wrote “I’ll
discuss your wire when I return.” I’m
wondering what she meant. All I put
in that wire was: “Incubus leaves Day-
light Express tomorrow.”
“Jade”: Drew-up at ray usual petrol-
station and asked for two gallons. The
proprietor inspected my petrol-gauge and
said firmly, “You don’t need petrol;
there’s nearly threequarters-of-a-tank
yet.” I live in Queensland,
*** * *
“D.J.G.”: Why pick on the egg-
merchants (B. 13/3/’57) for “gnomic
utterances?” Most impressive advertis-
phrases turn out to be meaningless:
Up to £4O allowed on your old
fridge,” ice-chest, wringer, etc. I’ve
wondered why they don’t make it a round
£lOO. “Up to” reduces the most magnani-
mous trade-in offer to the dealer’s
valuation, as scrap, of your cast-off
equipment—which is fair enough, of
course. Or take “from.” When sports-
coats are “from £5,” the one illustrated,
that you think you wouldn’t mind having,
is generally £l5.
“Sparks”: An American marriage-
certificate shown to me has, in addition
to the usual questions and answers, the
query “Color?” and “Number of
Marriage?” In this case the answer was
“First.” I suppose the Yanks would
consider that little more than calf-love.
f * ❖ ❖
“Imperial 55”: Reading through a
Customs by-law dealing with medicines,
drugs and chemicals, I was struck by the
task it must have been for the proof-
reader to cope with so many long words.
Among tongue-twisters like Allylisopro-
pylacetylurea, Chlorobenzylpyrrrolid-
ylmethylbenzimidazole, Dietbylamino-
methylbutylaminochloroquinoline, Lau-
roylphenyloxyethylbenzyldimethylammo-
nium, and Phenyldimethylpyrozolonme-
thylaminomethane, it was a tremendous
relief to come across something so simple
and homely as Bee-venom.
♦> »> ❖
“Sonron”: The Adult Education
Department of Queensland began classes
in basketry •in our town. Fifty
enthusiastic matrons enrolled, and before
long they couldn’t spare a word for any-
one as they plaited and wove and
unpicked and replaited and rewove.
Attendance has dropped off a bit; a home
CALYPSO
“Drawing ‘The Perfect Girl’ in King-street,
Sydney, Heino Zeisig, an Esthonian, said that
in Europe pavement-artistry was a profession
which ‘brought art to the man-in-the-street.’ ”
She doesn’t belong to a newspaper-faction,
She hasn’t got lost in artistic abstraction,
She isn’t a lady who’s walking a beat,
She’s a beautiful girl for the man-in-the-
street.
She isn’t the kind with which critics can
pander
To people of fashion who can’t under-
stand her;
She isn’t a mystery for the elite,.
She’s a beautiful girl for the man-in-the-
street.
No matter how handsome the men who
go past her
She stays on the pavement and works for
her master;
She earns him the money to live and to
' eat.
She’s a beautiful girl for the man-in-the-
street.
¥
She isn’t a one to outweary a lover,
She's the sort that lies down and lets
people walk over;
She fades in the night under thousands
of feet,
The beautiful girl of the man-in-the-street.
She doesn’t have children, she doesn’t
need housing,
She’s never heard arguing, nagging or
rousing ;
So silent, so patient, so good, so discreet,
She’s a beautiful girl for the man-in-the-
street.
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


can only take just so much in the way of
baskets, can’t it? A couple of households
had a really good bonfire last Guy
Fawkes’ Day, getting rid of Mum’s junk.
Cake-icing was another class which
tapered-off. If you have highly-decorated
iced cakes for tea every day, they become
unremarkable and not worth the trouble
of making. Now, the handicraft-con-
venor at the C.W.A. has announced that
she is going to teach members to make
doorstops. I suppose they’ll go on until
they come to shrouds.
*
“A. Fraser Mac”: We loved the cover-
picture of the Bonnie Prince’s monument
(B. 27/2/’57). It’s a far cry from Inver-
ness to “The Blinman,” but a Scot’s a
Scot the world over. It was the night of
the Hielan’ Ball; my cream-filled cakes
would surely be the piece.de resistance.
Disaster befell as I hurried up the
dark, stony street of the Flinders Ranges
township. Such a mess! But the
Mclntosh, Laird of Gum Creek, behind
me putting things to rights, muttered,
“Tut, tut, lassie, ’twas wor-r-se at
Culloden.”
❖ *
“Anyndah”: I am surprised that no
Bulletin reader has pointed out that
Lord Beaverbrook, whilst doing his
physical jerks in Low’s memoirs, could
not possibly have lain “prone on
his back.” The defending counsel
in a W.A. murder-trial asked a
medical witness how the body was
lying when he first saw it. The
doctor, a man of few words, said “Prone.”
“But,” pursued counsel, “was it on its
“I Want you to meet Sandra—she's JUST returned from Honolulu
six Weeks ago."
side or on its back?” “If it had been on
its back,” the doctor said, “I would have
said ‘Supine.’ ”
* »:« ♦>
“Fairlight”: The “Women’s Weekly”
has discovered a new kind of sympathy-
pain in the form of a beard:
“My husband, without warning, began to
cultivate a ginger fuzz last November. It
has passed tnrough an uncomfortable
toothbrush-bristle stage to a quite respect-
able ginger-brown beard, which, I have to
admit, has grown on me.”
A A
V V v
“J. 8.”: If “Heth’s” girl-friend (B.
6/3/’57) can have foam-bath, Turkish-
bath, massage, reducing-treatmeut, hot
shower, mud-pack, shampoo, perm, set
and pedicure all in the short space of two
hours 35 minutes, as shown by the clock,
then the beauty-parlor the wife patronises
is loafing on the job.
*** ❖ ❖
“Vingter”: Lusby’s kids enjoying a
window-view of a domestic row (B.
27/2/’57) brought no joy to a newly-
married friend. His wife had for weeks
ignored his protests that the bedroom
curtains were too flimsy, and to settle all
arguments he offered to peep from the
footpath. The wife accepted the
challenge. She made sure that he
wouldn’t win the argument from memory
by varying the undressing procedure and
throwing-in an ad lib hula-dance —just as
a bibulous stranger rounded the corner
and joined her up-till-then jubilant
spouse. The stranger gazed for a minute
before announcing: “That sheila must be
hot. Often see her getting ready for
bed, but I never thought she knew . . .
Looks as though she’s deliberately turn-
ing it on!”
❖ ❖ <*
“M.C.M.”: Nice going in today’s mail:
an invitation to have my house painted
—on time-payment. Point under dis-
cussion : in case of default, would all
or part be scraped off, and would
defaulter be billed for expenses incurred?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Xavier”: Perhaps “Moorapi’s” par.
(B. 13/3/’57) about the actor in “Witness
for the Prosecution” borrowing from the
High Court the bucket-of-water cooling-
hint is true. As a court-reporter, I saw
one High Court judge appear consistently
minus wig, a Supreme Court honorable
gentleman wearing odd sox and another
of the same jurisdiction who often
delayed proceedings (discreetly, of course)
while his associate handed him the latest
Test-scores relayed from the near-by pub-
broadcast.
♦♦♦ *!♦
“Bo”: They may constitute, in the
words of O. Henry, “a nomenclatural tin-
can tied to the tail of one’s self-respect,”
but those seaside-weekenders “Y Wurrie”
or “Y Wurk” at least express a pleasant
philosophy. But “Y Not” had me
puzzled. Was the occupier defiantly
referring to the architecture? Or to the
herd of kids who were playing outside
the front gate? I eventually discovered
that he was a Greek who thought his
own name, Tony, not tony enough.
A PLEA FOR TOLERANCE
“Despite, a popular impression held by many
laymen, hot ail geims aie uniriendly to man.”
—Medical magazine.
Before you jump on, spray or slog
Impetuously some little wog,
Recall that he
Could likely be
An amiable bacillus,
Full of goodwill to man, his pal;
Benign, gentle, congenial,
Who’d be distraught
At any thought
That he was out to kill us.
Though easygoing be a germ.
On one point he is very firm ;
If he can sense
A feeling tense, s
Or any deep suspicion
Of his intentions by his host,
His bleeding heart gives up the ghost.
Unless there’s trust
He simply must
Relinquish his position.
I had a germ, a friendly soul,
With whom I sometimes took a stroll.
A nd this I swear:
He loved his share
Of glassful or of plateful.
The fond look that he’d bend on me
Was quite a touching thing to see,
Reflecting pride
In mateship tried —
And he was really grateful!
Oh, let the friendly creatures roam
In arteries where they’ve made their,
home !
Borne on the stream,
They’ll idly dream
Among the red corpuscles.
There let them live on good rich foods,
And raise in peace their happy broods,
To romp and play
In living clay
’Mid fibres, veins and muscles.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Co., Limited
F. T. WIMBLE
Printing Ink Manufacturers Since 1867
AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND
Congratulate “The Bulletin
on its new format
It has been our pleasure to serve “The Bulletin” with all its
printing-ink needs since its first appearance on January 31st, 1880
“Swaddie”: What did the first Sydney
beach-inspector modelling beachwear at
Sydney Town Hall say to the second
ditto, ditto, as they stood powerlessly by
while Queensland Gold Coast girls
paraded in Bikinis? “They wouldn’t do
that if we’d brought our beach with us! ”
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Spenton”: Sign in a suburban sweet-
shop and grocery, “Easter Eggs, Lay-by
Now,” suddenly made me aware that
Australia’s biggest lay-by organisation is
the Egg Board.
*3*
“Kesem”: Girl teenagers are imitating
Tsarist jail-fashions with pants-legs of
different colors, though you’d think the
good old English broad-arrow or the
universal straitjacket would be more
appropriate.
♦I 4
“Ex-Ped.”: A couple of examples of
clauses similar to “like 1 do” in recent
“B.” pars followed closely on the criticism
of a contributor to a leading American
journal: “You should not say, ‘like I do’;
you should say, ‘as I do’ or ‘like me.’
Don't you know that ‘like’ is a preposi-
tion?” Like ... 1 do?
❖ *X* *l*
“Helldud”: All seats on the Narrabeen
(Sydney) bus were occupied, and the
conductor was exhorting a dour-looking
rail-hanger to “move down that centre,
please.” The dour one moved forward a
few inches only at each request. The
conductor kept nagging him until he had
him well jammed at the front end of the
bus. Then the silver-snatcher tore it.
“Will you move down that centre,
please!” he called again. The dour one
glared at him and yelled, “Just a second,
you bloody sardine-packer, and I’ll
climb in with the driver.”
❖ ❖
“Telluride”: Queensland’s pub penny-
piles originated in Kalgoorlie, where most
of the 36 hotels had them. One rose to
6ft. lOin. and was surmounted by a £5-
note given for the privilege of wrecking
the pile; it took 2\ hours to restack the
pennies ; a total of £36 raised in six weeks
for spastics. Queensland charity-
organisers got advice from Kalgoorlie
when they sought Government sanction
to start the piles in that State.
❖ ❖
“Sebak”: In most Sydney suburbs the
iceman has had his day, a victim of pro-
gress and his own arrogance in refusing
to deliver to the ice-chest and callously
leaving his wares to bleed to watery death
at the front-gate. But there is still one
place where he is in demand —the holiday
camp. You can’t pack a fridge in with
the camping-gear; but an old ice-chest
can be filled with miscellany and shoved
in thFback of the bus. On the camping
site it serves its turn, then is often left
behind as junk well disposcd-of. Waif
ice-chesis are becoming a feature of
camping-areas.
❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Red-blooded films from
Hollywood are setting a new fashion in
scorned women who, far from exhibiting
the traditional fury, accept their fate
laconically and unconvincingly. It would
seem that the average modern actress
doesn’t like the part and muffs it. Scorn
a woman in real life and she’ll either
blow her top on the spot or fix your
clock somehow, even if it takes her years.
♦> ♦> ❖
“Lorna Doone”: The implication of a
phrase is all a matter of age, it seems.
A six-year-old lassie was at a picnic ; and
after a while she came crying to her
granpa: “A boy got me into trouble;
1 was on the shee-shaw with him, and
when I got to the bottom, I got off, and
when he got to the bottom he told his
Mummie!”
❖ * ❖
“8.A.K.”: Some things just too stag-
gering for belief. Today 1 saw a young
fellow, without any abject apology or
suitable humbling of himself, hand a
Sydney tram-conductor a fiver for a
ninepenny ticket. The trammie gave
him the pound change in silver and four
fiddlies, and —you’ll never believe it —
said “Thank-you” as he handed the ticket
across.


POLITICAL POINTS
With 2997 days to his credit Artie
Fadden on Saturday passed Ben Chifley’s
record for the longest term as Federal
Treasurer. He’s also just about the widest
Treasurer we’ve had.
• •
The Cahills struck a great blow for the
workers when they made former Federal
A.L.P. president J. A. Ferguson chief of
the N. S. Wales Milk Board. With the
latest rise of id. a pint, Sydney house-
wives now pay 1 lid. a pint bottle. Prices
in other capitals are: Brisbane, B|d.;
Adelaide, 9d.; Melbourne, 9d.; Perth,
9d.; Hobart, lOd. Sydney consumers
thus pay from lid. to 3d. more than those
in other States. Just imagine what they’d
be paying if Ferguson wasn’t there to look
after their interests!
• •
From Singapore comes the discovery
that silence is the secret of women’s
power over men. They’ve certainly
managed to keep it a secret.
• •
A conference of State Housing
Ministers in Melbourne decided to ask
the Federal Government to provide addi-
tional money to the States immediately
for homebuilding. As in all cases of
asking the other fellow, especially Uncle
Arthur, for money, the decision was
unanimous ; and the atmosphere of the.
four-day gathering was so cordial, and
so courtly to the Press, it seemed the
unanimity was known well in advance
and the meeting was held merely to
express it as publicly as possible.
• •
Shipbuilding in South Australia is to
receive a double boost. At the launch-
ing of the freighter Lake Torrens at
Whyalla on March 19 the general-
manager of B.H.P. announced plans for
extending the shipyard at that port to
cope with orders for two 14,000-ton ore-
carriers. A few days earlier Premier
Playford told of a new shipyard which
would build tugs and small vessels at
Port Adelaide.
• •
According to Brisbane “Courier-Mail”
Professor Griffith Taylor places Aus-
tralia’s maximum population at 30 to
40 million people—“an opinion I have
held for 50 years, and I see no reason
to change it.” Griffith Taylor’s views
on this subject have always commanded
respect, and have been a valuable correc-
tive to dreamers who see no limit to this
country’s possible population. Still, it is
rather surprising to see him returning to
his original estimate despite the proving
of additional fuel-reserves and of develop-
ments in the agricultural and pastoral
industries. In 1921 the professor
suggested 62 million as the number
eastern and south-western Australia could
support.
• •
Killen, M.H.R. for Moreton (Q.), the
flattered subject of frequent attacks in
Labor and Leftist journals, suggested in
the Reps, that Burton’s latest pamphlet,
“Labor in Transition,” should be renamed
“The Light Grows Redder”—an allusion
to the former Burton opus, “The Light
Grows Brighter,” which, Killen recalled,
contained the imprimatur of Evatt and
Chamberlain. Killen remarked that if
every person in the country could peruse
it they would all know precisely where
the Australian Labor Party was going.
“Here, in unashamed form,” he said, “is
calculated Marxism,” and stressed his
belief that in its preparation there had
been collusion between Burton and
“some leading member of the Opposi-
tion.”
• •
Provided the Commonwealth Govern-
ment approves an agreement reached at
a meeting of the Australian Transport
Advisory Council in Canberra last week,
Sydney and Melbourne will soon have a
standard rail-link at a cost of only £lO
million. The proposal is that a single
standard-gauge track should be built
alongside the existing sft. 3in. line from
Albury to Mangalore (Vic.) and that one
of the two sft. 3in. tracks from Mangalore
to Melbourne be converted to standard
gauge. This would enable N. S. Wales
rolling-stock to run right through to
Melbourne. There’s a catch, though.
Both State Governments seem to assume
that Canberra will put up the dough.
• •
Long delay in starting up the opera-
tions of the Export Payments Insurance
Corporation was attributed over the
months to the Government’s inability to
find a suitable commissioner. One has
now been found, at least for the initial
stages, in R. A. Freeman, who has a
record of ten years’ service with the U.K.
Exports Credit Guarantee Department
and has been head of the general-policy
branch. A year ago he advised the Aus-
tralian Government on export-payments
insurance, and thus assisted in the pre-
paration of the broad features of the
Australian scheme. His appointment is
for the initial stages and the selection of
staff. He’s now in Australia, and will
shortly represent this country at export-
insurance meetings in Switzerland and
the U.S. The new corporation’s firsl
office will probably be in Sydney.
• •
An echo of the Burton pamphlet:
Senator Pearson (asking for a definition
of Democratic Socialism): I would like
some Labor member to tell us what, in fact,
it does mean —whether it means capital
levies
Senator Hendrickson: Can the honor-
able senator tell us what is wrong with
capital levies?
Sen. Pearson: If Senator Hendrickson
has £lOOO tucked away somewhere, and I
believe he might have, my interpretation of
a capital levy would b'e that some one could
go along and take a fair portion of that
sum from him.
Sen. Hendrickson: What is wrong with
that?
Sen. Pearson : Does the honorable
senator think it would be all right for him
to take it?
Sen. Hendrickson: Yes, I do.
Sen. Pearson : I do not believe the honor-
able senator when he says he would
welcome somebody coming along and
lifting half his savings.
Sen. Hendrickson: I say I would not
mind, because I haven’t got it.
“Where to, Guv’nor-Opera House or Government House?”


which seems unlikely for a variety of
reasons.
Most of the rest of the points are
platitudes. But two of real interest were
an agreement “on the need for the speedy
implementation of recent resolutions of
the United Nations General Assembly
dealing with the Gaza Strip and the Gulf
of Akaba.” What this means in plain
English is not revealed. It should mean
that the U.S. and U.K. are at one in
determination to see that Israel is not
molested by Egypt, and that the entry to
Akaba Gulf is not hampered in defiance
of the U.N.; but with Mr. Nixon, Mr.
Eisenhower’s Vice-President, walking
round North Africa adroitly stirring up
feeling against the British, whom he has
been branding as aggressors in the Suez
affair by inference and trying to win the
Sudanese into the Washington colonial
camp with speeches about the grandeur
of their history, the magnificence of their
resources and the importance of their
strategic position, one never knows.
Except by the fact that Nasser always
appears to get his way it is impossible
to find a starting-ground from which to
deduce the realities of U.S. foreign policy
in the Egyptian area. From the nebulous-
ness of the detail of the announced
Bermuda agreement it might appear that
Uncle Sam feels some embarrassment
in being clear, since it might involve the
revelation that he has had to do a lot
of retraction of heated words about
British policy in tlje light of recent
events.
A rumor which was about the world
while the conference was on that the
great Republic of Panama, one of
United States’ equals in both the Ameri-
can Association of Nations and in U.N.,
was contemplating applying U.S. plainly-
expressed moral principles regarding the
ownership of international canals to the
Panama Canal no doubt helped every-
body in Bermuda to be coy.
The U.S. has, however, agreed to join
the military committee of the Baghdad
Pact, with which, despite urgent advice
from the British over a number of years,
it has hitherto refused to do. This does
not mean that it will join the pact in
all its aspects.
The arrangement leaves it free
to follow its own course and take
little or no responsibility for pact policy,
while dictating it. It seems to be involved
in the embryo of a plan to build road
and rail and pipeline connections bypass-
ing the trouble-areas of the Middle East
through Turkey and Anatolia, the road to
run to Pakistan from the Mediterranean.
The route picked on is a difficult one in
terrain and climate and would be under
threat for its whole length from Russia,
which parellels its flank not so far away
—in fact, both flanks, if the Russians con-
tinue to be able to increase their influence
and strength in Syria and the other Arab
countries, where a fight is very much on
between Moscow and Western influence.
Meanwhile, Egypt appears to continue
to do what Nasser likes regarding the
canal, which is reported to be approach-
ing the point at which ships of substantial
tonnage can pass through. The world will
soon have to decide whether it will con-
tinue to put up with the dilly-dallying of
Mr. Hammarskjoeld and Mr. Dulles and
whether the canal is to be abandoned as a
world waterway or put into full use.
If Israel has much more provocation
and the dam of its indignation bursts
there will be nothing to stop its little
army in its rush to the canal and Cairo
save the U.S. Sixth Fleet.
The use of that would have implica-
tions which would probably be too big
a load even for Mr. Dulles to carry in the
circumstances.
At the time of the N. S. Wales Liquor
Commission Judge Maxwell commented
that the advocacy of 6-o’clock closing by
certain “temperance” witnesses would
carry more weight had they not admitted
that in reality they were in favor of pubs,
not opening at all. Similarly, Ward’s
plea for a temporary reduction in the
migrant intake would be more convincing
if one could forget that Eddie has always
been opposed to immigration.
• •
Gair’s Housing Commission has dis-
missed 450 men through lack of funds,
the Federal Government, of course,
copping the blame Yet in seeking his
housing-money allocation at the last Loan
Council, Gair deliberately asked for
£i million less than for the previous year.
• •
Those mysterious stones that have been
thrown in W.A. by no human hand are
obviously some leftovers Frank
Chamberlain brought back from the
A.L.P. conference in Brisbane.
• •
Nasser published his terms on the
opening of the Suez Canal on March 20.
He “undertakes to respect the spirit and
the letter of the 1888 Convention” ; but dues
must be paid in accordance with the agree-
ment between the Government and the
Egyptian canal authority in advance either
to an Egyptian agent or in Egypt.
Compensation and claims arising out of
nationalisation “can be called by direct
agreement or through arbitration”; Egypt
will “establish a special fund into wmch
a specific percentage, not lower than the
amount set aside by the old company,
will be paid to cover improvements to meet
increasing traffic.” And finally the Colonel
thinks “that the decision of the Egyptian
Government shows that Egypt, in spite of
great losses caused by aggression, continues
to pursue in a loyal manner the bona fide
principle of co-operation within the
comity of nations.”
That sentence shows how much his
promises are worth.
• •
“No Sirrah”: Talking of banks, the
Commonwealth Bank is making itself
unpopular with local authorities in
Queensland by the number of buildings
it is erecting, so the authorities say, to sub-
standard specifications. The councils say
that because the bank is a Government
organisation they are unable to compel it
to build up to standards which they
enforce on other businesses. In one or
two towns the P.M.G. is causing similar
concern.
• •
Fears expressed at the A.L.P. con-
ference that the New Australian vote
would be hostile to Labor are probably
well based—and with good reason. Of
the scores of thousands of them now
eligible for the vote, a big proportion
remember bitterly that in their birthlands
it was Socialist regimes which softened-
up for the Communists to take over.
• 9
There’s been much talk about reform-
ing the Constitution, and an all-party
committee of the Federal Parliament has
heard loads of evidence on proposals
to that end —but the public isn’t much
the wiser for all that. Earle Page moved
last week for the publication of the
evidence so as “to educate the people on
the subject before they are asked to make
any decisions by referendum.” The P.M.
said he’d see what could be done.
9 9
Senator O'Byrne (Labor, Tas.)
describes the Menzies Government:
It is like a rider on a young horse. It has
a curb bit, a heavy bridle, a martingale, a
throat lash, a surcingle, a girth, a kneepad
saddle, a crupper and a pair of 4-in. spurs.
It is holding in the horse by the head, but
driving in the spurs and wondering why the
animal cannot respond. That illustrates
the way the Government is going. It has
knocked down every hurdle on the track.
As a matter of fact it is not in the race
and hardly even on the race-track as far as
sound Government goes.
Wot, no blinkers?
9 9
Asked by Fairbairn, Liberal M.H.R.
for Farrer, shen the Northern Territory
was likely to be given Statehood, Terri-
tories Minister Hasluck said that that time
would come sooner if there were a move
by a larger North Australian community
wishing to integrate. Later he said that
what he had in mind was a North Aus-
tralian State to include the Kimberleys,
the north of the Northern Territory and
north-western Queensland. On its own
the N.T. would not have sufficient popu-
lation for a long time.
9 9
“Wusslean”: Answering criticisms con-
cerning trains not running to schedule, the
Victorian Railways announced proudly
that in February “more than 83 per cent,
of suburban trains ran on time, and in
January more than 85 per cent.” Like
most statistics, these figures can be looked
at another way which is not nearly so
impressive: for to admit that once in
every six trips a traveller is likely to be
on a train that runs late is hardly cal-
culated to make people depend on subur-
ban trains to get them to work on time.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Sir John McCauley, who retired from
the post of Chief of Air Staff last week,
had greatly impressed the Yanks and
other representatives at the Seato meeting
in Canberra the week before. Apart from
a variety of administrative jobs, in War
II McCauley led the four R.A.A.F.
squadrons from the more-or-less secret
airfield near Sumatra, Palembang (which
was never captured until it was
abandoned), and saw service on every
major war-front, including the second
battle for France, in which he was
attached to Monty’s command and
helped direct 70 squadrons.
He wasn't well known outside Service
circles until comparatively recently—
he was 40 years in the Services and 33
in the R.A.A.F. —but when he did begin
to get around he was very popular. He
was apt to recall, emphasising his faith in
air-power, that the Battle of Britain
decided the fate of the free world, and
that the first R.A.A.F. aircraft had a
minus-speed in a stiff breeze!
McCauley has settled on Surfer's
Paradise for his long-leave holiday, but
returns to Melbourne next month to
lead the Anzac March —the second post-
war airman to have the honor.
• •
James McGee, a 36-year-old Yank who
has recently come to Sydney as general-
manager of Pfizer Pty., Ltd., Australian
subsidiary of Chas. Pfizer arid Co., Inc.,
the 100-year-old chemical and pharma-
ceutical concern which is the world’s
largest manufacturer of antibiotics, was
here last year as the parent-company’s
eastern-area sales-promotion manager
and, earlier, lived for 11 years in Mel-
bourne: his father was in the southern
city for Vacuum Oil, and young McGee
attended Wesley College ; so he should
know something about our tribal
customs.
Not a scientist—he got his University
ANTIBIOTICS
of New York B.Sc. in Business Adminis-
tration—McGee can nevertheless tell a
tale of antibiotics, in both medical and
animal-nutrition aspects, which is quite
fascinating ; as he said, it’s his business
to know the essentials of what he’s
selling; the company has plenty of
scientific talent on tap —at Terre Haute,
Indiana, for instance, a 750-acre research-
farm—and, anyway, it’s a fascinating
subject. Early in War 11, he recalled, as
a result of a personal appeal from
Churchill to Roosevelt, Florey and a
team of British scientists went to the
United States, where they conferred with
opposite-numbers with a view to mass-
producing penicillin. Three American
drug-houses, of which Pfizer’s was one,
took on the job, thereby sub-
stantial contribution to the Allied cause.
McGee, around this time, was con-
tributing as a Naval flyer. Attached to
the U.S. sth and 3rd Fleets, he went into
the drink during the first Battle of the
Philippines (he was a dive-bomber pilot),
but was fished out to see quite a bit of
action in the central Pacific.
• •
One of the best-known of Australia’s
younger generation of career-diplomats,
J. K. (Keith) Waller, is to be the new
Australian Ambassador to Thailand, in
succession to D. O. Hay. The appoint-
ment is of some significance in view of
the headquarters of Seato in Bangkok, and
Waller will be an admirable man for the
task of envoy in those parts. He entered
the External Affairs service in 1936, and
has served in China (including nearly
three years in Chungking during the war),
Brazil, the U.S., the Philippines (Consul-
General in Manila from 1948-50), and
London. He was delegate to the recent
Seato conference in Canberra.
• •
After half-a-century in the newspaper
game, first with the “Timaru Herald,”
and for the last 40 years on the “New
Zealand Herald,” Auckland, J. M. Hard-
castle reckons he’s entitled to a rest. He
was director and chairman of the N.Z.
Press Association, served on committees
of the Newspapers Proprietors’ Associa-
tion, was chairman of the N.Z. section
of the Commonwealth Press Union, and
had been closely associated with the
Journalists’ Association.
• •
R. O. Giles, T.A.A.’s first manager in
Westralia, has h%d to resign, at 48,
through poorish health. He began his
association with flying 27 years ago,
while a member of the literary staff of the
“West Australian,” qualified as pilot in
1929 at the W.A. Royal Aero Club,
became full-time secretary and instructor
of the club in 1935 (and more recently
life-member), joined the R.A.A.F. in
1940, and had a Squadron-Leader’s rings
when he was demobbed.
WILLIAM R. BELL, managing-
director of Bell and Valentine Pty.,
Ltd., Melbourne, makers of The
Bulletin’s new press ip. 32)-
probably the largest, and certainly
the most advanced, printing-machine
designed and built in the Southern
Hemisphere.
• •
New president of Victorian Royal
Agricultural Society is Norman Frederick
Mitchell, the County Court judge who
read with the P.M. after having been a
master at Melbourne Grammar.
The Mitchells are townies ; they live
at Croydon (once a country district,
though now an outer-Melbourne suburb),
but the judge is a committeeman of the
Yarra Glen and Lilydale Hunt Club, has
been a judge at dog-shows, helps to run
trotting in Victoria and has been a
member of the R.A.S.C. since 1940 ; and
his wife is a descendant of the Deniliquin
(N.S.W.) McLaurins, the pioneer pastoral
family.
Mitchell, who was a judge-advocate
with the R.A.A.F. during War 11, has
represented Victoria in cricket and led
Uni. and Old Melburnian footballers ; in
his early fifties, now, judicial
wisdom, he plays tennis with the family.
• •
Perth editor Ivor T. Birtwistle has
given away the blue-pencil after 49
years with West Australian Newspapers,
Ltd. Since he joined the “West Aus-
tralian” in 1908, he has been editor of
the “Western Mail” and, later, of the
magazine-section of the “West Aus-
tralian,” director of studies in journalism
at the University of Western Australia,
and cadet-counsellor. He is president of
the W.A. Historical Society (which he
helped to found in 1927), president of
Perth Y.M.C.A., and past-president of
the Boy Scouts’ Association, Perth
Legacy, and the W.A. Surf Life Saving
Association. Served overseas with the


22nd Bn., First A.1.F., and did impor-
tant work for the Ministry of Informa-
tion throughout War 11. Awarded 0.8. E.
in 1952.
• •
Ronald Keith Thomas, of Perth, is
first to get the Australian Music
Examination Board’s overseas scholar-
ship: it’s worth £BOO, spread over two
years, and is awarded for the best
instrumentalist between the ages of 16
and 19. Thomas, who is 17 and plays
the violin, already holds a State
scholarship worth £3OO. He will put in
two years at the London Guildhall
School of Music getting polished by
Professor Max Rostal.
• •
George Patterson, whose Life Has Been
Wonderful was Red Paged a couple of
weeks ago, is head of
Australia’s largest adver-
tising-agency, built up, as
he tells in his book, from
small beginnings. Sixty-
seven this year, he is
turning his energies more
and more to the arts ; a
collector of paintings for
many years, he has lately
been doing landscapes
himself —a couple hang
in his office in The
Bulletin building, with
a Gruner and an early
(and very good) Namat-
jira—and he has three
plays in MS.; the theatre,
and music, are other in-
terests of long standing.
He went to New York
before World War I to
get further experience in
his chosen field, found it
a very hard city for
ambitious young men
from Australia, but
rewarding in business
education. Thence, a
rush home to enlist: he
held a commission in the
militia, but the medical
board knocked him back
because of an old
foot-injury and lack of
weight (“In those days
they wanted Adonises,”
he recalls). He went to
a Melbourne gymnasium,
built himself up and
eventually arrived in
Egypt with a medical
unit. Determined attempts to get into
an infantry battalion were frustrated; he
spent some time in the limbo of a general-
details camp ; then was attached to 4th
Division H.Q., where, with the rank of
sergeant, he was responsible for a
tremendous job of checking equipment.
Invalided out in 1917.
Profits from the book go to the Red
Cross; he’s deputy-chairman of the
N.S.W. branch, chairman of the (same
State) ex-service welfare committee, and
usually attends to some Red Cross busi-
ness during his frequent business trips
overseas. On that side, he’s also chair-
man of the Australian Gillette company,
deputy-chairman of Peek Frean (Aust.),
and is on the Colgate-Palmolive and
Hartford Fire Insurance boards.
An enthusiastic trout-fisherman, he has
some excellent films of the beautiful
Upper Murray and Monaro country,
where for years, with kindred souls, he
has escaped the bustle of big business,
• •
“Uramao”: The memorial at Dunkirk
will be unveiled by Queen Elizabeth, the
Queen Mother, in June next. The
engraved-glass window of the memorial
was designed by a New Zealander, John
Hutton, educated at Wanganui Collegi-
ate School and Victoria University
College, Wellington, who also did the
windows for the Runnymede memorial
and for Coventry and Guildford
cathedrals.
AUTOBIOGRAPHY
“Doormat”: Waverley (Sydney)
Methodists’ globetrotting minister, the
Rev. Alan Walker, is currently visiting-
lecturing on Homiletics and Evangelism
at the Boston School of Theology,
U.S.A., and will continue on that job
until July. Then he will conduct missions
through Germany, and on to Great
Britain ; he’s not due back in Australia
till next February. Since heading-off last
year he has been leading missions
throughout America on similar lines to
the Mission to the Nation here—he was
invited by the Methodist Church in
America to show how it’s done. The tour
has also included Canada. In Melbourne
last year he broke new ground when ho
addressed many thousands during a break
in a big football final at the M.C.G.
• •
Harry (Arnot Henry) Tolley is now
chairman of the Myer Emporium, Mel-
bourne, the biggest department-shop in
the Southern Hemisphere. He isn’t the
first non-Myer to run the big shop—
E. Lee Neil was chairman for a brief spell
between Sidney, the founder, and Sir
Norman, the expander—but he’s been
in charge of the till for most of his 35
years with the Myers. Last week the
company announced a record half-year.
That, plus a profile similarity, i» prob-
ably why he used to be known in the
shop as the Iron Duke, but his off-duty
interests are the arts (chiefly literature
and music) and saddle-horses, which he
keeps near his Balwyn home.
Tolley’s people were English, and
orchardists. They sent him to Caulfield
Grammar, a small school which some
judges claim is the best in Australia, but
he was a sergeant, no less, at 18, no
more, at Armentifcres, didn’t like the
orchard when he returned, and went into
Myer’s in 1922 as a student-accountant.
He is a tall, handsome fellow who has
retained a trace of English reserve, but
it melts as he talks.
• •
- Alex Hill, Melbourne’s new chief
stipendiary-magistrate, will be one of the
most popular for some time. He is sensi-
tive about court-etiquette, has a resound-
ing voice, and is given to occasional
homilies or personal reminiscence, but
on the all-important matter, justice, his
decisions are notably sound. He has
never been a harsh man, and court-
reporters have noted his interest in
youngsters in trouble and have suspected
a soft spot, too, for Old Diggers whose
patriotism isn’t professional.
His absorbing interest is cricket, and
he was for a long time scorer (a pretty
thankless task) for the district Firsts at
St. Kilda. His son, Jack Hill, is the
Test-cricketer, a spin-bowler, and a
respectable footballer and football-coach,
too, up in the Dandenongs, where the
Hills live.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 79, Richard Alexander Kerr,
headmaster of Ipswich Grammar School for 30
years until his retirement in 1945. His great year
was 1918, when the sixth form produced three
Rhodes Scholars, a future professor, two
subsequent headmasters of grammar schools and
other notables.
In Adelaide, at 72, Frederick Alexander
James, whose successful appeal to the Privy
Council in the Dried Fruits case 1935-36 led to
an attempt by the Commonwealth Government
to amend Section 92 of the Constitution and,
subsequently, occasioned a series of judgments
concerned with this section. A fruit-merchant,
James began his fight against Government-
control in 1927, when he oversold the quota
fixed by the S.A. Dried Fruits Board and was
prosecuted. He retired in 1937.
In Perth, at 73, Henry Edward Braine, pioneer
of wheat bulk-handling in Westralia. Born in
Essex, he came to W.A. as a young man, after
spending a year in Japan, and had some
experience with sheep in the south-west before
joining Westralian Farmers’ Co-op. He
organised the State’s voluntary oats-pool, was
for several years manager of the Westralian
Barley Board, and remained managing : trustee
of the Wheat Pool until his death.


ySne&s W 1 of^caJ
THc cmtl* Fez. i


ABORIGINALITIES
M ereti
■VCERETI giggled when, myself not long
here in Fiji, I passed the open door
of her corrugated-iron bure. She was
squatting before her broken mirror,
flicking the long teeth of her wooden
comb through her fuzzy black hair. She
wore her best dress, which she had hand-
sewn with amazing rapidity, and she had
a light touch of powder on her face.
lire giggle was an invitation to ques-
tion, though she never minded even
personal ones, such as, “Aren't you
married?” when her two children clung
to her skirt.
So I asked, “What is on, Mereti?”
“My boy-friend, he come home from
hospital tonight,” she said,, tossing her
head, and grinned, displaying the gap
where her front-teeth once dwelt.
So that was the reason for the whisper-
ing, the giggling and the hair-dyeing of
the day before.
I was glad Eremasi was coming back
at last, and watched for him during the
afternoon, as Mereti’s “tonight” meant
any time after the noon-whistle. 1 had
never seen him, but his courage was the
admiration of all on the mine.
Some months before, Eramasi and his
mate had drilled into an old hole, setting-
off an unexploded charge. Both were
badly injured, but Eramasi, who was
almost blinded, walked on a shattered leg
the length of the drive where they were
working, climbed a swaying ladder up a
rise into the main drive, then walked to
the plat, to get help for his friend.
Native medical-practitioners rushed to
their assistance, but Eremasi’s friend died
on the long drive to the hospital.
We had come here soon after the
accident, and Mereti had come to work
for me. She worked no weekends, and
asked for money in advance that she
might visit Eremasi in hospital.
He made rapid progress. His shattered
leg was mended with steel plates. The
ghastly mess that was an eye was cleaned
up, the other eye stitched, and the lacera-
tions healed quickly. Now, after months
in hospital, during which Mereti had for-
feited all her wages and promised many
hours extra work to make up for time
taken off, he was due back.
gUDDENLY I heard loud laughter and
cries of “Mai! Mai!”
Two men and Mereti and her friends
were talking and laughing loudly to a big
Fijian. His long black hair standing
fuzzily on end made him appear even
bigger. He wore starched white shirt and
sulu, and black sandals. Sunglasses hid
his eye and sightless socket, and he
walked with a barely perceptible limp.
He looked a fine figure of a man.
Next day, being Sunday, Mereti did
not come in all day. The bure door and
two shutters were closed, and I presumed
she had gone to visit her family in the
village four miles away.
At dusk the door was opened, and two
figures were barely discernible in the dim
interior. Mereti and Eremasi had spent
the hottest part of the summer day
closeted in the small, unlined, iron bure.
No sound of voices or the rattle of mugs
and plates had broken the quiet.
I wondered what they could have eaten
until I saw in the bin a pile of shells of
the freshwater-molluscs they gather from
the creeks. So I presumed they lived on
love, fresh fish and foul air.
pOR a time Eremasi visited Mereti
regularly on Sundays, though I rarely
saw him or heard his voice ; and some
months passed before i realised that
Mereti was visiting her village again.
1 could not imagine that they would
have quarrelled so soon, so I asked,
“Where is Eremasi, Mereti?”
“He go walk to New Zealand,” she
said.
“Why?” I asked.
“He get glass-eye. He no see good
with good eye,” and she felt in the air
with her hands to illustrate how bad it
had become. “They make eye better,
maybe.”
Soon after, I noticed that Eremasi’s
photograph was no longer in her bure.
The next Saturday she announced that
she was going to Taralala. She usually
went to the dance, but this night her hair
was resplendent with hibiscus-blossom.
Next week 1 noticed a strange boy
about the place a lot. Mereti observed
my curious glances and came to me.
Giggling shyly, she said “Marama, my
boy-friend come to stay with me.”
“That’s all right, Mereti,” I said.
“But,” 1 added, “what about Eremasi?”
"Oh,’ 1 she said earnestly, “I wait for
him.”
M. T. Pezet.
* * * *
TTWO escapees were recaptured recently
after five years in the hills in the Hol-
brook district (N.S.W.), not very far from
where the bushranger Morgan used to
hide-out. They were caged and exhibited
at a hospital-fete, and the staring public
had to part-up a bob to guess the weight
of wool carried. Merino wethers, one cut
521 b. and the other 44ilb. There was no
break in the wool, which was clean and
bright and ranged from 18in. on the
shoulder to lOin. on the bellies. They
had camped in caves. —“Peter B.”
* * * *
“Simon Scrawler”: Swallows, as
someone noted here, do nest in noisy
places. In Bright (Vic.), one pair reared a
family on the loudspeaker at 'the tele-
phone-exchange. But for the other


extreme I’d nominate the ones that
summer on Connors Plain, 4000 ft. above
the Macalister Valley in Gippsland. They
build on the blankets in the entrances to
fire-protection dugouts provided for
timber-workers. These entrances are L-
shaped tunnels, and the blankets hang in
frames a few feet in, on the second leg of
the tunnel. The nests are built close to
the wall which gets the least light.
Temperatures at that point are several
degrees lower than at the tunnel-
entrance —if that explains anything.
* * * *
“Kesem”: The Geographical Society
in Queensland is staging a Bunya Nut
Festival at this time of the year in the
Bunya Mountains, where the blacks
used to hold triennial barbecues, and if
there wasn’t enough meat to go round
were empowered by aboriginal law to
pick one of the feasters. But the
Geographical Society’s motto is strictly
“Nuts to you!”
* * * *
“Chooker”: Lex MacLennan (B.
6/3/’57) doesn’t give Jack Rice much
credit for his great achievements. Of
the horses he mentioned Mosstrooper is
the only comparable one. “Old Jack”
carried 12st. when the Australian
Steeple was a four-miler, and he was
beaten only half-a-length by Cuffs (9st.),
who cut 9|sec. off the record. I should
know —£2000 to £2 (Roisiel-Jack Rice)
was dough those days for a youngster.
It stayed with the bookie.
* * * *
“8.A.H.”: Our pistol-club had blazed
30 shots before it was noticed that a pair
of willy-wagtails had nested on one of
the wooden cross-pieces just above the
target. And despite the barrage, Mother
had stayed-put on the eggs, even though
she was looking a bit annoyed when we
woke-up. On the other hand, we then
noticed that Pop was most agitated,
hopping about on the ground below.
Target at once declared out of bounds ;
and in due course two little blokes.
* * * *
“Miss M.”: Not all modern youngsters
are machine-mad. A 14-year-old in our
district saved his pocket-money for a
year to buy himself a horse. Some weeks
after he’d acquired a mare he returned
after having tied her up for an hour or
so to find she had given birth to a
premature foal and had died—the result,
it was found, of a snakebite on the lip.
Two days later the foal also died. Now
the boy spends his out-of-school hours
doing odd jobs round the town, to earn
the price of another horse.
* * * *
“Cash Count”: It is past midnight,
and my wife in bed two rooms away has
called out, “For Heaven's sake stop ham-
mering that typewriter!” Anyone explain
why the bloke perpetrating a noise is the
one least affected by it? Sitting on top
of these keys I’m scarcely aware of the
tapping ; a pneumatic-drill operator
seems immune to its racket; the weekend
builder appears to enjoy his pound-
ing; and I'm sure a train-driver revels
in the blast of his whistle.
* * * *
“Jasby”: Plenty of swimming-clubs
would probably dispute P. Morath’s
claim (B. 13/3/’57) that the Balmoral
1500 yd. swim is the longest “open-water
race” in Australia. Several S.A. annual
events outdistance the Balmoral race.
From memory, the Largs Bay-to-
Semaphore swim used to be reckoned
at lm. 40yds.; the Henley-10-Grange a
little longer, and the Glenelg-to-
Brighton * about the same. The Swim-
through-Port Adelaide would probably
be called “closed-water” ; also the Swim-
through-Port-Pirie, but if Balmoral
qualifies as open water, then so does
Port Lincoln, which also has its annual
swim-through. There’s a link between
these South Australian swims and Bal-
moral, though. Well over half-a-century
ago Dick Cavill swam from Grange jetty
to the .Semaphore jetty—about nine miles
—through very rough water. His family
later ran baths around the bay from
Balmoral beach ; the site is now occupied
by Balmoral Naval Depot.
* * * *
“Obat”: Jack Kee, the old Chinese
market-gardener, pulled-up at the home-
stead just as Mrs. Obat was hang-
ing the floor-mats over the veranda
—among them an authentic tiger-
skin rug. Sighting the blocked head,,
the old chap asked excitedly would
I sell him a couple of “wisikers” olf
it, for medicinal purposes. I handed
over, but, with a look of disgust,
he returned them. “No good,” he
said. “Pig’s wisikers!” They were,
too —the originals no doubt having
been souvenired, for “medicinal pur-
poses,” and the pig’s sprouts substituted
somewhere between jungle and here.
* * * *
“Ceg”: In Ayers Rock in Centralia
(Bill Harney will be its first custodian)
we have one of the greatest monoliths on
this globe. Superimposed on the city of
Melbourne it would block-out the area
between Spencer-street and the Exhibition
Building over a width of about a mile.
The mass of rock is eight times taller
than Melbourne’s tallest building, and is
almost six miles in circumference. There
are reservoirs- of water at its base, the
water trapped from the cascades which
flow down the rock during periods of the
4in. annual-rainfall. Miniatures of these
reservoirs may be seen in Paddy’s Ranges,
near Maryborough (Vic.), where the
aborigines used smaller rocks to make
their “blackfellows’ waterholes.”
* * * *
“Tabba”: The emu was grazing
quietly until he heard the Landrover, then
he lit out fast for the scrub. He must
have been doing 30 m.p.h. when he hit
the new fence and catapulted back into
the paddock, while the fence twanged like
a banjo. Sorting himself out, he glared
at the approaching Landrover, backed
off a few yards, laid his neck horizontal
and launched himself at the wires once
more. After a sharp, savage scuffle he
drummed triumphantly into the scrub,
leaving a badly-shaken but still-intact
fence. I have yet to work out how he
got all that bird between taut wires only
9in. apart.
* * * *
“Icinit”: The main street of our town
has gone gay; most offices and stores
are content with cream set off by blue,
yellow, or red trimmings ; one store has
arrayed itself from parapet to pavement
in turquoise-blue ; pastel-blue is favored
by one bank and two pubs; another


THe buU-;_
~„,cK.n9’ > ' e
o«e> * eO,C
Bt a &
?V <■
Vi'
. co^ cV, ° n
*B°* ,n AsS oc\oteS
tb
\,fO.
the‘ f
* » 0t
0 '
TO to* 00 *'
r V .fX' t - a V
&CR ~„
ed or'd b °'" .y, spe ed
tbe
r\e^
co
mo9°
i'^ e p '
ress-
itt**
p-fV.
2\o*
Sou 1
*b
,ne
SS3
Bs
* *
R
bank prefers pastel-green, as do the
council-chambers. But what has really
set the seal of approval on this trend to
color is the blpssoming into a coat of
daffodil-yellow of one of our oldest
buildings, occupied by our oldest, most
sedate, almost Dickensian firm of
solicitors.
* ■» * *
“Sarsen”: Touching on the term
“ringer” referred to in recent pars, here,
it crops-up in a forthright ad. in the
“Longreach Leader” (Q.):
I require young, active man with common-
sense and ability to take charge outside
stock-work. Must be good horseman and
bushman, able break-in and shoe horses.
Essential he be able to handle men and
see that cattle and sheep worked in correct
manner. A knowledge of mills and station-
machinery desirable. No drunks, drongoes,
synthetic Yanks, Queen-street ringers need
apply.
• • • «
“J. 8.”: We used to feed a few kooka-
burras raw meat, but the news spread on
the avian grapevine, and jackies arrived
in such numbers we had to discontinue
the handouts as the alternative to going
broke. Several months later, as an
experiment, we set the hills ringing with
cries of “Jacko! Jacko!” and soon no
fewer than seven birds, all chortling glee-
fully, were tucking-in as hard as if
there’d never been any estrangement
between us.
“Jockteleg”: I accompanied a man not
long here from Scotland on a Sunday-
afternoon stroll around our suburb. Mac
pulled up with a sharp snort. “So ye’ve
Jacobites out here!” He pointed to the
three pine-trees growing in a front garden.
“That’s the hallmark of those who still
think the present Royal family has no
right to the throne,” he told me. “Every
Jacobite puts three pine-trees in a row
before his house.” Half-a-mile farther
on we came across another home with a
similar sign. Later inquiries showed that
the trees at the first house had been
planted by a man named McDonald
40 years ago, while the second lot had
been put in by one named Grant. But
Mac couldn’t tell me just how three pine-
trees came to be used as a Jacobite sign,
and I’ve sought in vain through the
reference-works.
{ * * * *
/ “Sackfair”: My nomination for the
strangest sight ever seen on a farm:
Near Avondale (N.S.W.), a chap riding
one horse and driving another that was
pulling the harrow. Still can’t make up
my mind whether he was the laziest
cocky I’ve seen, or the most intelligent,
* * * *
“Sandpatch”: The “N. T. News”
reports that of the 19 Intermediate-
examination passes from the Darwin
High School, seven went to Chinese boys
and girls, while of two passes in the
Leaving, a Chinese girl, Miss Joyce Ah
Toy, from Pine Creek, secured the
higher, and achieved a faster speed in
shorthand (with 120 words a minute)
than any previous student in the
Territory.
PRINCESS CHARLOTTE BAY
Cairncross, Waterwitch,
Day after day
There are pearl-luggers working
In Princess Charlotte Bay.
Bubbles rise up
Where two currents join
Under noonday sun
Like a round bright coin.
Shark-fin sail cuts the arc of sky
Where white clouds scud
And gulls hover high.
Shining days
And quiet nights
Away from women, ,
And grog, and fights.
Camp-fires burn
On Cairncross beach.
A Torres Strait pigeon and a turtle-steak
Each.
Moon silver-bright
Makes night like day.
Pearl-luggers anchored
In Princess Charlotte Bay.
QUEENSLAND.
W. N. SCOTT.


A
3
• • • congratulates the Sydney Bulletin and is proud to be associated with Bell and
Valentine Pty. Ltd. in supplying . . .
THE COMPLETE ELECTRICAL DRIVING &
CONTROL EQUIPMENT
for the new Bulletin Press,
The main motor is one of our world famous ASEA infinitely variable speed A.C.
Commutator Motors, used on printing presses the world over,
ASEA ELECTRIC (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE: 431 Victoria Street, Abbotsford. JA3121.
SYDNEY: Pacific Highway, St. Leonards. JF4221.
BRISBANE: 116 Wickham Street. 1.241 ft.
Agents in Adelaide and Perth.
Business, Robbery, Etc
"MONEY, MONEY, MONEY!"-AND HOUSING
JJOUSING remains one of
Australia’s most regrett-
able problems. The shortage
ot homes is the cause of a
good deal of domestic disaster,
and it has, undoubtedly, an
adverse effect on the whole
economy, restricting the
mobility of labor at a time
when labor should be
thoroughly mobile. But the
housing shortage is really a
national problem, lying in
the hands of the people
as a w hole, not merely
one for the Federal Govern-
ment to solve through the
waving of a monetary wand,
even acknowledging that at the
present time Canberra’s atti-
tude towards housing is prob-
ably no more perfect than it is
in several other respects.
But the irresponsibility of
the campaign in N.S.W. against
the Federal Government be-
cause of the effect of its credit-
restrictions on the housing
shortage was probably best
exemplified by the heading to
a Sydney “Daily Telegraph”
editorial, which read: “Mr.
Menzies, the people want
houses—NOW!”
There wasn’t a suggestion
anywhere in the editorial that
the “Telegraph” meant any-
thing but what it said literally
—the want was NOW, and the
inference was that anyone
wanting a house should be able
to get one built tomorrow,
Almost everything else in
the article was in keeping with
the same importunate unreal-
ism—merely “guarantee the
loans of instrumentalities
interested in building” and
“the money for homes would
appear as if by magic, and
homes would sprout across the
countryside.”
Premier Cahill and his
Housing Minister, Landa, talk
in terms almost as irrespons-
ible.
The fact is that at present
any additional money that
could be made available for
homebuilding (without aggra-
vating inflation) would be
marginal in its effects on the
housing situation.
It is doubtful indeed whether
the rate of housing-construc-
tion could be restored (regard-
less of inflation) to its 1955
inflationary level of 80,000
homes a year without straining
the resources of all the obsolete
and inefficient as well as
There he goes again—tryin' to kid us business is rotten."
efficient—sawmills, brickyards,
tileworks, etc.
There is ample cement now,
in most States. There is plenty
of water-piping. And, for those
who want it, there are stacks
of galvanised-iron. Also, at
the present rate of construe-
tion (about 72,000 home-units
a year) there may be full
supplies of bricks, tiles, timber
and other building-materials.
It is probable, also, that
members of building-trades
unions may not be over-
employed at the present time,
and it is undoubtedly true that
some master-builders are slack
or out of a job.
Whilst all these matters call
for careful consideration, the
mere fact that they exist and
that there are people uncom-
fortably or inadequately
housed does not mean that
they can be solved by a
splurge of cheap money,
There is rather a harlotish
demand for “Money, money,


There are now
1000
Branches and Agencies
of the “Wales”
serving
every State of Australia,
New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and
New Guinea,
with two branches in London
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
Oldest and Largest Commercial Bank
in Australia and New Zealand
A GREAT AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5708C
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
money!” from a variety of
authorities on behalf of the
ill-housed, regardless of the
underlying facts.
Sydney newspapers and
other loud-mouthed spokesmen
of the moment are no more
temperately concerned about
the situation of the ill-housed
than is the Government of
N.S.W.
Housing is a political foot-
ball. Its true economics are
avoided by most of those who
speak so vehemently about it.
Economic commonsense and
plain truth go overboard when
pressure-groups and garrulous
spokesmen pour out their
propaganda.
One reason fob the plugging
©f the housing problem at the
moment is the fact that the
retail trade is in the doldrums
in the eastern States. In the
rag-trade and elsewhere “busi-
ness is bad.” And every back-
yard economist knows that the
way to give the whole economy
an inflationary spending-boost
is to stimulate the building-
trade. For every man em-
ployed on a housing job, several
more are employed in the
supporting industries.
State Labor Governments
have done nothing construc-
tive about the housing position.
They avoid the truth of the
situation like the plague. Yet
the fact that money is not
readily forthcoming from pri-
vate sources to finance all our
housing needs explains why
the Federal Government is not
prepared to expand credit to
help finance housing.
If a big additional housing
programme were sound eco-
nomics the money now lying
in deposits in banks and
savings-banks would far more
readily flow into homebuilding,
either for home-ownership or
home-letting.
But a big additional housing
programme is not sound
economics for a number of
reasons.
However it may be possible
to enlarge the housing pro-
gramme by a marginal amount,
any large increase is not justi-
fied by the manpower or
overall supply of materials
available.
Unemployment in Australia
Is minute, and in materials
there are bottlenecks. At
local-government level there
are further bottlenecks.
Today, also, money-supply
has to be related to produc-
tivity.
Productivity, because of the
40-hour-week, increased annual
leave, long-service leave, etc.,
is not nearly high enough to
support safely a big housing
programme at a time when the
demands for social security are
eating into the already-
inadequate productivity.
Many master-builders went
insolvent when homebuilding
activity was at its height ; they
were bankrupted by the rise in
costs that accompanied the
housing boom, not by lack of
jobs to do.
Today, city building activity
has taken up much of the
slack in the construction
trader, and we can’t have both
programmes going full lick at
the same time.
Until landlords are
encouraged, by State Legis-
latures, to build homes for rent-
ing, we will always have people
who are not as thrifty as their
fellows having home-finance
difficulties. Many people have,
because of a “fair”-rent legis-
lation, been “low”-rented out
of house and home. Yet they
would cheerfully pay a higher
(fairer) rent to be relieved of
the bother of homebuilding.
There are many problems
associated with housing, princi-
pally of a national social
character. But a pressure
programme of “Gimme, gimme,
gimme!” isn’t a solution.
Oil-seeps and Pay-sands
[From It. OwenJ
Ti/fOST of the early wells
sunk in the search for
petroleum were drilled at or
along-side surface oil-seeps.
As petroleum - exploration
became more and more under
geological control, however, the
presence or absence of surface-
manifestations assumed less and
less importance. The number
of failures in wells drilled near
seeps without geological
guidance, and in some cases
with it—was, in fact, so great
that a common axiom on the
oilfields stated that petroleum
was not where it was found on
the surface.
Like most generalisations,
that represents only a part of
the truth, but it is so often
correct that the factors influenc-
ing the success or failure of
seepage - locations are well
worth study by all petroleum
geologists, particularly by those
working in non-standard areas.
An oil-seep, under any condi-
tions, unequivocally points to
reservoir-leakage. The leak-
age may have been so great
that it has depleted the reservoir
below commercial value. The
size of the seepage is not,
necessarily, a measure of
underground conditions, but
depends largely on the perme-
ability of the feeding-channel
and on the period over which
the seep has been active. A


I
:, - X
:S •
: -
:v>
A
-
'YyY.-:
•••:••• :•:•••■,
V
registered
FIRST
mortgage
debenture
STOCK
/
/o.
o
Pe *AN
NUh
f Or
Y£ *ns
wMtmteeJ
OTHER TERMS
AVAILABLE
3 MONTHS TO
20 YEARS
SEE
PROSPECTUS
Fixed quarterly income free of
exchange.
Principal paid in full on maturity.
Principal paid in full before
maturity in certain circumstances
—refer Prospectus.
The largest asset backing of all
finance companies in Australia.
Assets exceed £40,000,000.
Underwriting Brokers to the issue!
lAN POTTER A CO., Melbourne,
Sydney and Canberra.
Trustee for the Debenture Stock*
holders: The Perpetual Executors
A Trustees Association of Australia
Limited.
Request* for a Prospectus may be made to—
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES and all Branches of the E.S. A A. BANK
LIMITED, NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA Ltd., and
Australia’s Leading Hire Purchase Organisation
l«J
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH HOBART
large seep may have originated
from a small pool and a small
seep may connect with a large
pool.
The character of the seep-
petroleum and the geological
environment of the seep-area
will give valuable clues as to
the commercial oil-prospects of
the region. The variation of
the chemical and physical
characteristics of the petroleum,
from point to point, will
indicate—when properly inter-
preted—the direction in which
the oil has travelled and, hence,
the direction in which the
more prolific “pools” should be
sought.
The fact that such clues are
not commonly utilised is
reflected in the high percentage
of uncommercial wells drilled
in the exploration and exploita-
tion of oil-seep areas,
Woolworlhs
"D ATE of profit-earning by
-*v Australia’s leading chain-
stores, as well as by other
“take-over” retailers, is being
steadied by the increase in
capital-accounts. G. J. Coles in-
dicated a lower rate dividend
on its bonus-increased capital
in 1957-58, and the board of
Woolworths, when announcing
the new one-for-two issue of
ss. ords. at par—quite a high
gearing of new capital—said
that “as some time will elapse
before this new capital becomes
fully income-producing, and as
the cost of developing new
stores has risen so substantially
with inflation during recent
years, the board does not
anticipate that the ordinary
dividend-rate after May 1,
1957, will exceed 12} p.c. until
all new stores in hand and
awaiting development have
become fully productive.”
Ordinary dividend for the
year to January 31 last was
maintained at 15 p.c.
The present issue will bring
in the substantial sum of
£2,887,330 and will take paid
capital up to £8,936,991,
including £275,000 of pref.
money.
Presumably the new money
is for general expansion under
the co.’s own steam, which has
been the pattern of develop-
ment in the past. The last issue
of shares to the public was one-
for-four in October last year,
while in November 650,000
ords. were issued to nominees
of J. B. Were and Sons at a
premium of 11s. 2}d. a share.
Those who look-up these
shares (full price 16s. 2}d.) can
now see them at a cura-rights
price of 21s. 3d. (books close
May 15). Those who pay that
price are prepared to accept a
return of lower than 4 p.c.
until the effective div. lifts
above the expected 12} p.c.
The Captain Told the Mate
[From I«. OwenJ
T HAVE already commented
(B. 19/12/’56) on the danger
of allowing a partly-technical
article—in which the facts are
ever-so-slightly exaggerated—
to appear in the less-responsible
“popular” press.
A typical example of this
occurs in a London weekly, ’
which prints, on its front page,
a rehash of a “popular” Sydney
Sunday-press “feature” dealing
with a routine expedition into
the Canning Desert Basin. A
few excerpts will illustrate the
point:
Seven Australian prospectors have
returned to civilisation after spend-
ing six months searching for oil in
the unexplored Great Sandy Desert
of Western Australia. Their trek,
covering 10,000 miles of empty
unmapped waste nearly twice tne
size of Britain, was one of the
longest and most dangerous in Aus-
tralian history. Lack of water or
the breakdown of their vehicles
might have meant disaster
They lived mostly on canned food
and damper, which is a sort ot
unleavened bread baked in aslrs
Occasionally, they were able to add
a kangaroo or «x bird to their
monotonous diet
During their long sojourn in the
wilderness they were astonished to
meet a solitary white man, driving
cattle, who celebrated their meeting
by killing one of his bullocks for
food. But for weeks they had the
uncanny feeling of not being alone
in the desert. Smoke signals showed
that hidden aborigines were keeping
a watch on them....
I recall an old-time music-
hall ditty which proclaimed:
For the captain told the mate
And the mate told the crew
And the crew told me
So it must be true.
Friday-night Trading
ly/TELBOURNE retailers • are
dickering again with the
possibilities of opening shops
again on Friday night. The
Cain Government put a stop to
the nonsense of prosecutions
against nurserymen who sold
plants to motorists in the hills
on Saturday afternoons and
Sundays, and Premier Bolte
has announced that, of course,
he will legislate, if necessary,
for used-car agents to sell on
Saturday-afternoons.
Now that shops close at 5.30
p.m. working people have to do
their shopping on Saturday
mornings, and close to 9 a.m.,
too (so enormous has Satur-
day-morning trading become),
if they want to get served in
reasonable speed. Trouble is
the shop-assistants don’t like
Friday-night trading.
Though Fleet-street hasn’t
yet felt the effect of TV com-
petition, mass - circulation
magazines in the U.K. have
been hit. “Picture Post” sold
over 1,400,000 copies a week
a few years back; for the six
months to December last the
average weekly circulation was
down to 739,000. “Illustrated,”
which once sold over a million
a week, now sells 717,000
“Esquire,” the lush U.S. sex-
plus magazine, has stopped
printing in the U.K. and now
distributes from U.S. printings
again. Women’s mags, in the
U.K. go from strength to
strength, and, significantly,
sales of the “Manchester
Guardian,” the “Observer” and
the “Sunday Times” are on
the up-and-up, as are those of
the weekly reviews like the
“New Statesman and Nation.
In the U.S.A., between the
squeeze of TV competition and
the higher cost of publishing,
there has been quite a deathroll
among magazines, most notable
being “American Magazine,
“Colliers,” and “Woman s
Home Companion.” __


Be assured of
a successful yield
every year!
wMwMm§s
XX: X. XXX-XXXi,
:■■•*-;
m
•'/.y/.-y/.y.-j
XV
WM
WmwWm
m
mm
■M
m
<xx
< :•
SsSSSJ
■ .
gw
** i
1
■ -:;■
■ '
*
V,
t
ktMjMSI
Be assured of a successful yield this year, and every year irrespective of what
the elements may bring. Know with absolute certainty and accuracy what that yield
will be, and when to expect it. Put your idle money to work, earning a guaranteed interest
yield in National Bank Interest Bearing Deposits, available from 3 months to 2 years.
Throughout Australia, men on the land favour these Deposits, because they ensure that their
money is not tied up for longer than need be because they enable them to maintain inter-
est bearing reserves which are immediately available in cases of urgent need. There is no
safer investment with a guaranteed fixed return unaffected by market fluctuations.
If you have money lying idle, discuss New Higher Interest
Bearing Deposits with the manager of your local National
Bank. He will show you how your idle money can be put
to safe, convenient and profitable use.
472 T /r 5 /?6C
FREE
Monthly Summary of
Australian Conditions
including regular notes on
the Wheat Industry available
at any Branch or post free.
NATIONAL BANK
SAFE AS THE
NATIONAL BANK
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(incorporated in victoria)


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Sydney Symphony
Orchestra
Like Haydn’s music, that of
Handel is healthy and instinct
with cheerfulness, and prac-
tically all his essays in the
concerto grosso a form he
inherited from Corelli and
improved to the point where
his own are incomparable—
are heavily impregnated with
these qualities. The Sixth of
0p 6 __ with wh i c h the Sydney
Orchestra under Sir Bernard
Heinze opened its first sub-
„ • .. 1 . * „ cf »., sn n
script.on-concert of the season
IS *? ro L i . .la force
was played by the reduced orde
with a suitably joyous li t.
The , Symphony was Elgar s
Second, so awfully Lng i ,
frightfully correct, so starchily
respectable and, really, so du .
It has nothing so vulgar as
excitement, and if the orchestra
was enthusiastic it didn t show
it.
It was a different story, how-
ever, with ' Rachmaninoff s
Concerto No. 2, with Julius
Katchen at the keyboard. This
is undoubtedly the finest
piano-concerto composed this
century—a ceaseless flood of
distinguished melodies in'Jer-
laced with rich harmonic
effects. The orchestra responded
to the inspired playing of the
soloist with alert, beautifully
timed and balanced collabora-
tion.
Lyndall Barbour and Stewart Ginn, and Richard Meikle and
Lola Brooks, in “Come Back, Little Sheba,” at the Independent.
Stage and Music
“Come Back, Little Sheba”
William Inge, who appears
to be enjoying something of
the same popularity as his
contemporary Americans
Tennessee Williams and Arthur
Miller, shares with them the
penchant for putting a small
slide of human misery under
the microscope and pushing
it around for the best possible
view. Lacking the lurid color
of Williams or the hard force-
ful line of Miller, he is inclined
to sentimental melancholy and,
possibly with an eye on Holly-
wood, seems over-eager to dab
a happy ending on to his
observations.
He is, however, a pretty
good observer of human-beings
and that stands him in good
'stead in “Come Back, Little
Sheba,” currently offering at
the Independent, North Sydney.
The main characters, a
reformed alcoholic and his
slovenely wife, each of them
acting like a corrosive on the
character of- the other, are
acutely observed and recorded.
Both are starving for love and
respect and neither can give it
to the other; the woman's
frustration manifests itself in
idle regrets for lost beauty and
in grieving over the loss of her
dog, Sheba ; the husband lives
with his own personal tensions
complicated by his feelings for
a young girl, their boarder,
which he works off in splenetic
hatred of her boy-friends.
Neither is a particularly
attractive character, and
indeed one feels that the
author himself could not alto-
gether conceal his irritation in
attempting to draw a sympa-
thetic picture of them. Jn the
acting of it, Stewart Ginn, as
the husband, comes out best—
he suggests all sorts of suppres-
sions in his quieter moments,
and his explosion into alcoholic
violence is quite a tremendous
thing.
Lyndall Barbour makes few
concessions to sympathy and
suffers for it, and, whereas she
does an excellent job vocally,
she is inclined to decorate the
role with too many fussy
mannerisms. She is quite
impressive, however, and had
the role led to more substantial
conclusions one would not
have questioned her build-up.
May Hollinworth's production,
crisp and well-paced as it is,
seems to fall into the same
trap by giving the piece the
weight and force of tragedy
when, really, there is nothing
there to justify it.
Lola Brooks and Richard
Meikle, as the boarder and her
boy-friend, are both fresh and
convincing.
+*«* +5*
‘‘The Way of the World”
Congreve’s masterpiece is
generally credited with being
the wittiest comedy in English,
and the most difficult to pro-
duce. Nothing daunted, Rhoda
Felgate gave it the full
resources of her Brisbane
Twelfth Night Theatre, and
with complete success. After
making some allowance for
the slower pace that the
rhythms and cadence of Aus-
tralian speech must impose
upon a work conceived in
terms of the crispest English,
it is difficult to imagine a
better performance.
The sets by Queensland
artist Quentin Hole would
have graced a West End pro-
duction, and the costuming was
generally imaginative. The
exception was Mr. Mirabel],
who appeared to be a kind
of Dr. Johnson in Lincoln
Green, and acted with too
much of that gentleman’s
solemnity of manner.
As Millamant, Gwen
Wheeler has never appeared to
better advantage, and if lack-
ing just a trace of the lovable
warmth that underlies the
gentle raillery of her lover,
she displayed with' consider-
able skill the other glittering
facets of this deservedly
famous heroine.
It was the minor characters
who gave the most delight. In
particular, Stuart Benson’s Mr.
Witwood was a model of style
against which others, includ-
ing the principals, had to be
judged. Looking for all the
world like a well-tonsured
French poodle, he had com-
plete command of his role,
Others spoke their lines, adding
an appropriate curve of the
hand or action. Benson’s
remarkable performance was
tme
ol the theatre—a rare amalgam
of gesture, word and action,
each stemming from the same
central root of the character’s
personality.
Marjorie Mant, Therese
D’Arcy, Jeremy Buir-Smith,
Blanche Lath.er, Lionel Jones
and Dawn Rees all presented
intelligent conceptions of their
difficult roles, making the first
play for the Brisbane season
a challenge to all repertory
groups and to more than one
professional visiting company,
VAL VALLIS.


Parrenin Quartet
Following its admirable
policy of using noted overseas
ensembles to whip-up enthusi-
asm for chamber-music here,
the Musica Viva Society began
its 1957 season with the
Parrenin Quartet, a young
French team consisting of
Jacques Parrenin (first-violin),
Marcel Charpentier (second-
violin), Serge Collot (viola)
and Pierre Penassou (’cello).
Their playing at the concert
at Sydney Con. was so good
and so effortless that it
smacked almost of mental-
telepathy they gave the
impression that if each had
been placed in a separate
cubicle the result would have
been the same.
They began with Haydn’s
“Sunrise” Quartet, Op. 76,
No. 4, a summation of all the
composer’s craftmanship and
experience in life and art. It
reflects in full his calm and
cheerful spirit, his optimism
and his inexhaustible fund of
hard-wearing themes. Its pulse-
beat is strongly rhythmic, and
it was that feature which
received meticulous treatment
from the players—that and the
smoothness of legato in the
beautifully tranquil adagio.
Beethoven’s F Major
Quartet, Op. 135, the last com-
plete work from the master’s
pen, was notable for the play-
ing of ’cello and viola in the
sombre moods ; elsewhere the
two upper strings contributed
the few flashes of wit and
gaiety which bring the needed
balance. The cantabife of the
third movement was an essay
in deeply-felt emotion.
Artbursts
Gallery Pieces
On the whole, 1956 seems to
have been an abstract and
aboriginal year in art, at least
as it is represented in the
acquisitions of the N. S. Wales
National Gallery, now on
show; and those who doubt
that abstractists and aborigines
are among the world's greatest
painters will just have to squat
upon their heels like John
O’Brien’s parishioners and
chew a piece of bark.
The bark-paintings collected
by the Austrahan-American
Arnhem Land expedition, of
dugongs and crocodiles in
pretty patterns of dots, are, all
the same, very pleasant. Nine-
tenths of the charm goes out
of them when, like about half
the exhibits, they are done on
paper and cardboard.
Those on bark are genuine
primitive works of art ; and
bark itself is a nice earthy sub-
stance. Once the aborigine
starts self-consciously to paint
pictures on cardboard he
enters into competition with
Rembrandt: and he has a long
way to go to catch up.
Except for one painting by
Margo Lewers, “Wreckage,”
which has movement and some
space for the mind to move
behind its thrusting design, the
Australian abstracts are a poor
lot: clever-enough designs,
maybe, but shallow and im-
penetrable.
The chief interest lies in
“Welsh Mountains,” by the
English painter Grahame
Sutherland, whose striking
canvas of black rocks and pink
skies, though remote enough
from reality to be called an
abstract, has at least some force
about it. At the same time it
seems facile and shallow —it
could quite well have been
made of strips of pink and
black paper, and could repre-
sent a battleship as readily as
a mountain—and it seems
strange that the Gallery should
have bothered to buy this early,
experimental work (painted in
1936) instead of an example of
Sutherland’s later development.
Henry Moore’s “Helmet”
has been noticed before. Some-
times it looks like a bogey,
and sometimes it just looks too
easy. Once again the Gallery
has acquired an indifferent
w'ork by a man who has had
much more interesting things to
say.
In the meantime, while the
ancient and modern primitives
have thus been expressing
whatever they have to express,
William Pidgeon has painted
quite a charming portrait of
Miss Whitely, David Rae (a
young Travelling Scholarship
painter) has done a
promising “Station Blacks”
in the manner of Drysdale,
G. K. To w nsh end has
painted a “Storm, Jamberoo”
with his accustomed mastery,
and Jean Appleton
neither abstract nor repre-
sentational but happily in
between —has done a very
fresh and lively lot of apples
and fish in rose-red.
❖ ❖ *>
Lionel H. Taprell
Feeling and facility fight a
battle for supremacy through-
out Lionel Taprell’s show of
watercolors at David Jones’
gallery, Sydney, and leave the
result uncertain.
All the paintings are suave
and harmonious in their soft
greys and fawns; all show
dexterity in the handling of a
fluid wash with firm draftsman-
ship underlying it; all the
Johnny Puleo, Burt Lancaster and Gina Lollobrigida, in
“Trapeze,” at Sydney Regent.
subjects, whether of a Sydney
street-scene, buildings in Spain
or odd-looking flourmills or
oat-houses in the gentle English
countryside, are attractive.
Yet there is a sameness about
the paintings ; an evenness. Few
come decisively alive with a
click. They are a shade too
competent.
How the artist is to paint
a click this commentator does
not know; but Mr. Taprell
has done it in “Old St. Peters”
and “Ramsgate on a Cold
Day.”
Pottery by Ivan England is
also showing at David Jones’.
It is mostly rather plump and
heavy for this commentator’s
taste ; but tastes differ and it
is all well-executed.
Clifden Pugh
Clifden Pugh’s exhibition at
the Victorian Artists’ was
probably the most successful
one-man show held in Mel-
bourne since Arthur Streeton
sold out 40 years ago at the
Athenaeum. Dealers and
collectors bought most of the
big canvases brought back from
the Centre. Daryl Lindsay
marked a family-group down
for Canberra University, as well
as one for his own private
collection.
Pugh is more fortunate in
one way than most artists —
he hasn't merely one, but two
patron§ prepared to back him,
and his recent trip to the
Never Never, where he found
the subject-matter for most of
the pictures, was financed by
one of Melbourne’s biggest art
benefactors who imposes no
conditions: His proteges can
paint where, when, what and
how he likes, and the results to
date have keen good, on the
evidence of these lively pictures.
Films
“Trapeze”
If not the most spectacular
of circus-acts, the triple-
somersault from the trapeze is
undoubtedly one of the most
difficult and most hazardous.
Alfredo Codona —who began
his trapeze career in Australia
with Wirth’s in 1913 —was the
first to master it, after several
others had killed themselves
trying or had been scared out
of it. Not many have suc-
ceeded him —possibly about
half-a-dozen, including the
husband-and-wife team, the
Concellos.
The comparative rarity of
the act is understandable—the
flyer must hurl himself from
the bar with enough force to
spin his hunched-up body three
times with something like the
speed of an express-train, and
he must come out of it with
such perfect timing that his
hands meet those of the
catcher with split-instant
accuracy.
It is obviously a good sub-
ject for a film, and director
Carol Reed makes good use of
it in “Trapeze,” currently
showing at Sydney Regent. The
core of the film is the story
of a young trapeze-artist (Tony
Curtis) who goes from New
York to Paris in search of the
only man (Burt Lancaster) who
can teach him how to master
the triple.
The older flyer has long since


V\>
> >.
I,** i r«T •i" 'V> .» , A'
4* - .I- ■ ■h'Mm
WubTP
have the "know how" to effect correct
insurance for the man-on-the-land
Lumley’s are insurance BROKERS. That means they are
equipped to effect the CORRECT insurance for you with the greatest
efficiency and economy. Lumley’s specialise in farmers’ and graziers’
insurance. They have specially trained advisors who concentrate in this
particular field. These advisors are not insurance salesmen, they are
professional men who have acquired the “know how” to meet the complete
insurance requirements of the man-on-the-land.
• Why not visit Lumley’s while
you’re down for the Show and
discuss your insurance matters
with them. An enquiry costs
nothing ... in fact, it will save
you money.
LUMLEY’S ADVISORY SERVICE IS QUITE FREE
p
WYNYA
STATIC
J l
ac46a
1 E
GEORGE STREET
r WSJ'*
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS (N.S.W.) PTY., LTD.,
Insurance House, 263 George Street, Sydney. Phone: B 0538
Also at Newcastle, Lismore, Waffffa, Wollongong and all Capital Cities.
mastered the triple, but, after
being injured in a fall, has
given the game away and
become a circus-rigger. After
a considerable amount of per-
suasion he consents to teach the
young fellow, and the bulk of
the film takes it from there.
To add popular appeal to the
tale a steaming crate of sex
(Gina Lollobrigida) is intro-
duced as a performer from a
trampoline number who
schemes her way into the
trapeze-act and plays one man
off against the other for the
sole object of focusing the
spotlights more surely on her-
self. This aspect of the story
has not a great deal of depth
to it but, since the circus itself
has produced far more unusual
stories, it can hardly be
criticised on the grounds of
credibility.
In any case, the main attrac-
tion lies in the glossy, sweep-
mg views and intimate glimpses
of circus life and in the trapeze-
act itself, where the director
expertly builds-up his tension
to the culminating triple-somer-
sault. The camera, too, sweep-
ing and poising above the rink
for different views of the
trapeze-team, is a most useful
contributor to the doings.
Lancaster is the most
important performer in the
story, and a very human actor
he is. Curtis handles his part
of the act capably, and, as an
animated mating-call, Miss
Lollobrigida is all that could
be imagined.
A. A. A.
V V V
“The Harder They Fall”
This, sighted at Sydney
Capitol, is a forceful expose
of the methods of a hard-
driving, ruthless fight-promoter
who stacks comparatively raw
pugs up against “class” boxers
and gets them belted about
unmercifully, then tosses them
on the scrap-heap when they
have earned him all they can.
It is the late Humphrey
Bogart’s last film and provides
him with a role tailor-made for
his talents. As a sports-writer
for a paper that has just folded-
up he takes an attractive
assignment with a fight-
promoter (Rod Steiger) to
build-up the publicity for the
latest addition to his stable—a
gigantic young South
American. To the practised eye
it is soon obvious that the big
fellow has a powder-puff
punch, a glass-jaw, and insuffi-
cient mentality to improve
much —a pushover for even a
second-rater.
The promoter stage-manages
a succession of successful bouts
in which previously “bought”
opponents take well-timed
dives. When, through rigged
fights and Bogart-directed
publicity, the big pug is in line
for really big-time stuff even
the tough publicity-man is
sickened. He has developed a
sort of pitying affection for the
intended victim, particularly
when he discovers the pro-
moter is systematically robbing
him.
In a world-title bout the
challenger is cut to ribbons by
the unbuyable reigning champ,
and his share of the 100,000-
dollar gate is whittled down to
49 dollars through out-
rageously stacked exes. Bogart
quixotically puts the battered
wreck on a plane home and
gives him his own share of the
spoils, and then, despite threats
from the promoter-gangster, sits
down at his typewriter to
hammer-out the story for a
publisher.
The fights are well staged,
the final slaughter horrifying,
and Steiger's version of mental
savagery is of noteworthy
intensity.
♦♦♦ *** 4*
Other Sydney Releases
“The Feminine Touch”
(Sydney Embassy): English
film on the tribulations of
trainee-nurses in a big hospital,
with an outstanding perform-
ance from Diana Wynyard as
a strict but human matron . ..
“Phoenix City Story” (Sydney
Palace): Realistic and exciting
account of the breaking of a
crime-tsar’s grip on a terrorised
city . . . “The Sharkfighters”
(Sydney Esquire): Victor
Mature menaced by rubber
sharks while testing repellent
for the U.S. Navy. _


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
A. J. Veall Electrics, Ltd.
TTP to March 19, 30,538 TV-receiver
licences had been issued in N.S.W.
(10,425) and Victoria (20,113). Production
figures are only available as far as the
end of December, when 46,310 receivers
had been made. A few sets had also been
imported. Due allowance must be made,
in correlating the number of licences
issued with sales of receivers, for the fact
that only one licence is required by an
owner of more than one set.
Over the final quarter of 1956 produc-
tion of refrigerators, washing-machines,
food-mixers, radios (other than portable
models, in which the decline was smaller)
and radiograms fell sharply compared
with the same period in 1955. The
numbers of electric toasters and fans
were also down. Only in the manu-
facture of vacuum-cleaners, hand-irons
and hot-water jugs was output raised
above the previous year. With the excep-
tion of TV-receivers, the biggest falls
were felt in the costlier range of
appliances, such as refrigerators and
washing-machines.
The smaller demand was noticed by
Melbourne electrical-goods wholesaler,
manufacturer and retailer A. J. Veall
Electrics, Ltd., especially over the second
half of its term. Sales for the whole year
were again over £2,500,000, but in the
squeeze exerted on the one hand by
competition and on the other by increas-
ing costs the co.’s margins were finer, and
trading profit dropped £23,800 to
£107,790. Thanks to the much bigger
return from investments (up £62,504 to
£180,680), however, consolidated net
profit after taxation (£44,841, down
£2054) was written £38,182 stronger at
£245,683:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , Dividends— N serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £
1953.. 65,100 9 p.c. = 45,000 20,100 349,<74
Profit sale assets, £275 .. ..
Less subsidiaries’ reserves, £BB6O .. 341,189
Intangibles written-off, £BISO .. 333,039
From investment reserve, £3774 .. 329,265
Unexplained reduction, £58,726 .. 270,539
Pref. Ord.
6 p.c. 10 p.c.
1954. .103,287 6,650 60,000 46,637 317,1 <6
Profit sale assets, £129
Assets revalued, £517,250 .. ' *
Unexplained reduction, £9197 .. 825.358
20 p.c.
1955.. 204.925 12,000 10U.000 92,925 918-283
Reserves capitalised, £500,000 .. 418.283
Loss sale assets, £32 fon’c-77
Tax overprovided, £25<6 .. ..
Written-off intangibles, £10,195 .. 41.0.632
1956.. 245.683 25.340 125,000 9a,343 00^97»
* Subject to intangibles, £345,033 at 30/6/ e 6.
After covering the pref. div. (jacked-up
1 p.c. to 7 p.c.) the £245,683 profit was
26.4 p.c. on mean ord. capital, which was
doubled during the year by a one-for-one
bonus-issue financed from a revaluation
of shares in the associate investment and
hire-purchase concern Corartie Pty., Ltd.
The 15 p.c. distributed to the ords. was
thus equal to 30 p.c. on capital as it stood
before the gift.
Last term Veall invested another
£300,000 in Corartie and its subsidiaries,
bringing its total shareholding in the cos.
to £1,300,000 (par-value), all in £1 prefs.
which now carry a fixed cumulative 15
p.c. (previously 10 p.c.) a year. Book
valuation of the holding is £1,800,000.
Over a whole term the return from
this source alone will be more than
enough to cover the entire dividend, at
present rates, on Veall’s pref. and ord.
capital. .
Partly to finance the operations ot its
own operating cos. and partly to provide
for the increased investment in the h.-p.
associates (who handle Veall s terms-
sales) the parent put out £250,000 of new
pref. scrip in January, all but £2250 ot
which had been gathered in by terms
end:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1*
J Pref 1 .. .. £200.000 £200,000 £447.7i>0
Ord .. .. 500,000 500,000 1,000,000
Reserves .. .. 317,573 918,283 505,97 a
Mortgage .. .. 36,276 35,770 107.034
Creditors, etc. .. 987,293 337 ,440 292.27
Due associate co. —■
Tax provision .. 48,098 44 -8 44
Final div. .. 31,650 56,000 90,504
£1,643,812 £2,814,247 £3,186,988
Freehold .. .. 70,481 196,533 224.227
Plant etc .. 65,558 79,184 82,214
Shares .. .. 412,447 1,508,280 1.808,305
Stock .. 435,124 438,480 465,233
Debtors, etc. .. 309,918 242,190 256,632
Cash, etc 4,751 4 ,047 4 - 8^
Intangibles .. 345,533 345,633 34a,u33
£1,643,812 £2,814,247 £3,186,988
For every £ of shareholders’ funds there
was 11s. 3d. of borrowed money in the
business. Current liabilities, including
short-term deposits, exceeded the value of
stock, debtors and cash by £399,520 .
On ’Change the co.’s f.-p. ss. ord. scrip
fetches around 9s. for a return of 8.4 p.c.
on als p.c. div. basis. The 20s. prefs.
stand discounted at 18s. 3d. to return
7.6 p.c. Net tangible cover is £3 11s. Bd.
the prefs., ss. lOd. the ords.
United Insurance Co., Ltd.
FOR almost 90 years, the Sydney-con-
trolled United Insurance Co., Ltd.,
confined practically all its underwriting
activities to the fire, marine and accident
risks handled by its Australian and New
Zealand branches. However, since the
co. re-entered the London marine and
fire-reinsurance markets in 1948 and
1952 respectively, branches of this 94-
year-old office have been established in
South Africa, India, Fiji, Hong Kong and
New Guinea. The co. has been active on
the home-front, too, and there are now
83 Australian and 34 overseas branches
(including 21 in N.Z.), as against a total
of only 18 branches in 1954.
Net-premium income has more than
doubled in the last six years, and total
assets have jumped from £1,906,629 to
£3,808,851 over the same period.
To help finance this expansion, share-
holders were offered 200,000 £1 ords. at
par in June, 1955, on a two-for-five basis,
and another 297,681 ords. (three-for-
seven) in August, ’56. Paid capital,
£500,000 for most of the 1955 term, will
reach £997,681 when the latest issue is
fully paid next August. Issued capital,
originally in partly-paid £lO shares, is
now all in £1 ords.
Net-premium income continued to
increase last term, and, although the rate
of growth was a little slower, the addi-
tion amounted to a pleasing £146,889:
Net Ex- Loss Expens*
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
£ £ £
1951.. 003 632,209 650,910 39.9 „ 48.8 M
1952.. 1.687.609 716,716 778,876 42.4 „ 46.1
1958.. 381 759,014 902,235 41.8 „ 49.7 „
1954.. 204.046 1,007,173 908,392 45.7 „ 41.2 »
]956.,2,425,092 1,057,257 1,134,357 48.6 „ 46.8 „
1956.. 2.571.981 1,190,909 1,212,845 46.3 „ 47.1 ..
Losses made-off with a larger share of
premium income, the loss-rate increas-
ing by £2 14s. p.c. to 46.3 p.c., while non-
recurring branch-establishment expenses
accounted for most of the 6s. p.c. rise
in the expense-rate (47.1 p.c.). The net
underwriting surplus dropped by
£10,589 to £109,471 after a much smaller
(£58,756, down £54,662) addition to
reserves for unexpired risks. This reserve,
at £1,123,277, equalled 43.6 p.c. of net
premiums compared with the 40 p.c.
ratio usually considered adequate.
Although the previous term’s accounts
showed an increase of nearly £150,000 in
Government securities, mortgages, etc.,
income from investment improved by
only £ll7 (to £67,344), and net profit for
the term, to September 30 last, was down
£10,472 at £176,815:
To Re- Re-
Scpt., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ ££ £
1952.. 93,789 12J p.c. = 62,600 1 21 28 9 1.291.412
To staff fund, £IO,OOO .. J
To unexpired risks, £50,289 .. 1,341,701
1963. .146,276 12J p.c. = 62,600 i 78,776 1,416,476
To staff fund, £10,000.. 1
To unexpired risks, £156,286 •• 1,671,762
1954. .185,596 15 p.c. = 75,000 1 10 0,596 1,672,358
To staff fund, £IO,OOO J
To unexpired risks, £118,418 •• Vooa’nan
1955.. 187.287 124 p.c. = 76,000 112,287 1,898. 68
To unexpired risks, £58,756 • •
1956. .176,815 124 p.c.= 87.600 89 5? H 3 nt,’ 1 at
* Includes reserve unexpired risks, £1 .iza.iii a*
30/9/’56.
The net earnings, calculated after an
unstated provision for taxation, repre-
sented a return of 25.2 p.c. on capital
(15.6 p.c. underwriting, 9.6 p.c. invest-
ments), as against 27.7 p.c. in the previous
term. On paid capital as it will stand at
the close of the current term the return
would be 17.7 p.c. The div.-rate was
unaltered at \2± p.c.
Sixteen new branch offices were opened
during the year, and, including property
previously owned by a now-liquidated
subsidiary, the conservative “cost-or-
under” valuation of freeholds increased
by £273,186 :
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £500,000 £700.000 £850.345
Reserves' .! !! 1.672,358 1,898,063 2,046.134
Provision for claims - 324,671 304,083 425.375
Owing subsidiary —.- .H'Wa
Creditors* • • 847,554 432,692 420,832
Final divs, etc. •• 53,750 43,750 43.750
£2,898,333 £3,378,588 £3,808.851
Freehold, etc. .. 717,869 1,004,236 1,277.422
Shares subsidiary 89,758 39,758 50,000
Govt, securities, etc. 101,668 174,618 177, <62
Shares debentures 80,000 82,988 95.490
Mortgages j. 551,274 619,330 649*015
Cash, bonds, debtors 1,407,764 1,457,658 1,569,162
£2,898,333 £3,378,588 £3,808.851
* Includes provision for taxation.
Investment income should be
strengthened by the additional £12,502
in shares, debentures, etc., and £29,685 in
mortgages, but there was a fairly sub-
stantial (£100,874) increase in cash and


debtors, combined in the above table with
Government bonds. A subsidiary,
Canberra Insurance Co., Ltd., was
registered in the A.C.'T. during the year,
the £50,000 paid capital being subscribed
by the parent co.
Including provision for unexpired
risks and uncalled capital, there were
net tangible assets of 645. for each £1
of share-capital issued at September 30
last. At 58s. 3d. the f.-p. ords. would
return 4.3 p.c. from a p.c. div. The
contribs., paid to 10s., last sold at 455.
William Crosby (Holdings), Ltd.
'THE shipping and agency business con-
trolled by William Crosby (Holdings),
Ltd., originated in 1853, when William
Crosby and his two sons went into
business, in Hobart, as shippers and
shipping-agents. Over 70 years later the
firm was converted into a proprietary co.
The holding co. —a Melbourne-based
three-year-old —exchanged 370,000 f.-p.
£1 ords. for the £IOO,OOO capital of the
pty. co. early in 1954, and, shortly after-
wards, offered a further 130,000 ords. to
the public at par. A one-for-five par-
issue halfway through last term brought
in £112,000, while extensions to the
group’s interests in Tasmania and West
Australia l involved the issue of 84,000
ords. and lifted paid capital to £756,000,
all in f.-p. £1 ords.
Although the group now has a wide
spread of interests, many of its activities
stem from the early association with
shipping, and four of the eight subsid-
iaries are shipping-, Customs- or
insurance-agents (in the southern States
and W.A.), while the parent’s investment
portfolio includes scrip in a number of
stevedoring, salvage and ship-repairing
cos. Subsidiary cos. are also engaged
in the merchandising of building-
materials, the export of fresh fruit
and the production of concrete pro-
ducts (Hobart), chocolates (Melbourne)
and blueprints (Sydney). Last term the
co. acquired the paid capital of Frank
Hammond Pty., Tasmanian cartage-con-
tractor and Customs agent, and the fruit-
exporting business of Doyle, Momber
and Co., of Perth.
Despite increased costs, the effects of
import-restrictions and a loss from the
fruit-exporting subsidiary (T. E. Butler
and Co. Pty.), last term’s before-tax earn-
ings were slightly (£1806) above those of
the preceding year. The higher rate of
co.-tax, however, necessitated a larger
provision for taxation (up £6696 at
£36,296) and an extra £4291 (to £13,215)
was set aside for depreciation, leaving
net profit (for the year to June 30, ’56)
£4920 lower at £57,522:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. f Dividends- \ senes, serves.*
1954.. 59J30f 84 p.c. = 33,542 26,188 7 -7
Less preliminary expenses, £0967 .. l,uio
Tax overprovided, £737 • • .. 2, «_»«*»
Pre-acquisition profits, £5912 .. 8,007
Reduction intangibles, £3255 .. Jl-822
1955.. 62,442 84 P-c. = 46,667 15,775 27,d9i
Tax overprovided, £2405 .. ..
Share-premiums, £BOOO • • •• 88,002
* Added intangibles, £11.971 .. .. 20,031
Share-issue expenses. £lsll .. *• 24,520
1956.. 57,522 8J p.c. = 51,500 6,052 30,5« 2
* After deducting intangibles, f Five months only for
parent co.
Earnings equalled a return of 9.3 p.c.
on average paid capital, as against 11.6
p.c. in the preceding term, the unchanged
8| p.c. div. taking all but 10.5 p.c. of the
profit. An 8j p.c. div. on the full £756,000
capital would require £63,000, or £5478
more than was earned last term, but
80,000 shares don’t rank for divs. until
July 1, ’57. These shares were issued, at a
2s. 6d. premium, with 84,383 £1 7 p.c.
notes, as consideration for the share-
capital of Frank Hammond Pty. The
notes are repayable, by the par-issue of
scrip or in cash, in annual instalments
over the next eight years.
The share-issue and the method of
payment for the new subsidiary enabled
the group to show a substantial increase
in working-capital (£117,362 higher at
£205,344), and, although the long-term
debt rose by £113,883-to £223,883 fixed
assets, at “valuation or cost, less deprecia-
tion,” increased by £192,336:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital .. £500,000 £560,000 £756,000
Reserves .. .. 20,221 36,733 51.679
Minority interest 7,334 7,078 6,725
Mortgage .. .. 30,000 110,000 139,500
Notes ....
Overdraft .. .. 790 132,716 97,651
Creditors .. .. 93,390 166.382 139,857
Tax-provision .. 35,055 29,950 43,122
Final div.. .. 33,542 46,667 61,500
£720,332 £1,089,526 £1,370,417
Freeholds .. 170,008 397,695 515,532
Plant, etc. .. 32,591 58,347 132,846
Shares other cos. 147,202 152,051 155,258
Stock .. .. 160,259 261,609 303,825
Debtors .. .. 81,471 201,216 233,145
Cash, bonds, etc... 110,498 9,472 8,704
Intangibles .. 18,303 9,136 21,107
£720,332 £1,089,526 £1,370,417
Creditors were reduced by £26,525, and
the overdraft cut by £35,065, debtors
increasing by 15.8 p.c. and stocks by
16.1 p.c. over the term.
There is still little in the way of reserves
to support the earning-rate on share-
capital, the consolidated accounts show-
ing a net tangible backing of 20s. lOd. for
each f.-p. £1 ord. The scrip last sold at
20s. 3d. to return 8.2 p.c. from an 8| p.c.
distribution.
F. J. Palmer Holdings, Ltd.
VJGHILE the big department-stores have
’’ been engaged in their spectacular
merger dealings, some of the smaller
shopkeepers have been busy consolidat-
ing, too.
One of the more enterprising of them,
F. J. Palmer Holdings, Ltd., has widened
the spread of its N.S.W. business and
extended operations to Queensland,
Victoria and South Australia, all within
the last six years, and almost through
the process alone of taking-over existing
businesses. Today it has 60 stores and
factories at Sydney, Maitland (N.S.W.)
and Prahran (Vic.).
The business kicked-off in Redfern
(Sydney) in 1880 as a hatter and men’s-
outfitter (boys’-wear was added later).
Incorporation was sought in 1918, and in
1950 the present holding-co. was formed.
Then followed the acquisition of
Blarney’s, of Wagga (1951). the 14-store
business in N.S.W. of Coo-ee. Clothing,
Ltd. (1953) and, in 1955, Snows Men’s
Wear, Ltd., with 20 stores in Victoria
and S.A. Cost to F. J. Palmer of Snows’
issued capital of £360,000 was £374,000
(face-value) of its own pref. (£150,000)
and ord. (£224,000) scrip. The same year
the co. bought the , N.S.W. country
businesses of Lamrock and Lound
(Orange) and Mackley and Downs
(Dubbo).
Last term four new stores were
opened in N.S.W., and the £125,000
ord. capital of men's-wear retailer
Haslams, Ltd., bought for £93,750 (par-
value) of F. J. Palmer ords. The 13
stores in Haslams chain were all located
in Sydney suburbs. To provide additional
working-capital and finance the construc-
tion of new shops, the co. made its first
cash share-issue since 1927. Offered at
par on a one-for-two basis to ord. share-
holders it brought in £426,930, and with
the scrip handed to Haslams shareholders,
raised paid capital to £1,593,391, of
which £30,000 was in 9 p.c. prefs. and
£191,489 in six-percenters.
Turnover of the group jumped 16 p.c.
to £5,800,000, but after meeting all
expenses and providing £54,806 (up
£5539) depreciation and £197,311 (up
£23,956) tax, combined net earnings were
declared £4349 lower at £300,759:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
t Dividends To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Prof. Ord. serves. serves.*
9 p.c. 12 i p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
1953..117,156 2,700 62,812 61,644 328.813
Profit sale assets, etc., £17,854 .. 346,667
From pre-acquisition res., £9893.. 330.774
9 & 6 p.c. 174 p.c.
1954. .211,832 5,212 97,279 109.341 446.115
From depreciation prov’n, £57,095 503.210
Written-off goodwill, £18,949 .. 484,201
Profit sale assets, £586 ..
To pre-acquisition reserve, £141,566 626.413
1955. .305.108 13.902 J 148,7691142,437 768.850
Tax overprovided, £4003 .. ..
Assets revalued, £504,506 .. .. 1,277.3._>9
Had debts written-off, £27,580 .. 1,249.7<9
To pre-acquisition reserve, £59,310.. 1,309.089
1956. .300,759 14.199 J 240,541 f 46,019 1,355.108
• Subject to intangibles, £72,328 at 31/7/’5O. •
t Includes dividends on shares in subsidiary awaiting
transfer to holding-co. J Includes 7 p.c. pref. divi-
dends paid by subsidiary.
After taking care of pref. shareholders,
the co. showed 20.8 p.c. on its average
ordinary capital, as against 34.5 p.c. in
1955 and 37.2, 22.8, 18.8 and 20.8 p.c.
over the four preceding terms to 1951.
Maintenance of the \l\ p.c. div., there-
fore, was no easy matter, and this term
it has been thought prudent to put the
distribution on a 12| p.c. basis. “We have
[says the chairman], like every other co.,
been sorely hit by rising costs, particu-
larly wages.” The reduction in the basic
wage in February, then, was a welcome
reversal of form following the resump-
tion of wage-adjustments in all States
last term, except S.A. and Victoria, where
they were suspended again in October,
but land-tax will have to be paid in
N.S.W. this year.
Here is the balance-sheet:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955.
Pref £71,875 £216,802 £221.459
Ord 555,875 843,781 *1,372.632
Reserves .. .. 446,115 768,850 1,355.108
F. J. Palmers (Vic.) 7,565 2.8“4
Mortgages .. 231,500 277,000 287,250
Overdraft .. 95,421 183,061 544.802
Creditors, etc. .. 184,973 404,193 215.667
Tax provision .. 138,197 175,158 201.843
Final divs. .. 55,588 75,080 120.;>55
£1,779,544 £2,951,490 £4,322.200
Leaseholds, etc. .. 9,486 91,196 77.630
Freeholds.. .. 631,567 914,271 1,671.419
Plant, etc. .. 135,38 0 3 41,17 4 540.767
Shares .. .. 1,002 ' 250 3jO
Stock .. .. 820,967 1,220,291 1,500,6.3
Debtors .. .. 159,827 351,283 452.13<
Cash .. .. 2,029 3,678 6.896
Intangibles .. 19,286 29,347 7!.3~s
£1,779,544 £2.951,490 £4,322.200
•Includes £730 application money.
Most of the growth in the figures reflects


DAVIES & COI.LISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Aovt.
m
■ V
JACK
ARTS
Circular Charts for all typej*
of Recording Instrument!
O’SULLIVAN P 4.1
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
Fnil/i in IJi c
Fuism
Less than two years from now—in 1959 —
Queensland will have entered upon its centenary
year. The last of the Australian States will have
come of century age.
It should be observed in a manner worthy of
a wonderful State.
Within its 670.500 square miles Queensland
wraps so many diverse resources of soil and
minerals—and more importantly, it has people of
the calibre to work and to win them.
Any assessment of this country’s future must
take well into account the greatness of a State that
contains, in higher-than-average quality, between
22 and 23 per cent, of Australia’s total area.
We can all pay tribute to Queensland’s worth
fairly and faithfully, whatever our home State;
there are no borders to the sharing of national
prosperity.
What lay to the North was so little appreciated
100 years ago that the original line for the
Separation of Queensland —it was later amended
—was drawn to include in the new State a large
part of the rich Northern Rivers district of New
South Wales.
That is history, and it has its lesson for us
now. Much as we may think we know today of
Australia’s resources and latent wealth, the wonder
in future years will be that so little of its real
capacity was foreseen in our time.
It must be so. There are all the new sciences
of this age, the revolutionaiy improvements to
soil and plant-life, the modern methods of
engineering and earth-moving and mineral recovery,
to compress more into mere years than was achieved
in the hot, hard ground-work of a century.
So I say the approaching jubilee of Queensland
should be a cause for celebration through the
whole of Australia. The State’s creation started
us on our 40 years’ march to Federal nationhood.
This centenary will be another sign of our
maturing, and should be honoured accordingly.
the Haslams purchase, the ord.-
share issue and the writing-up of
freeholds “on a sound market
basis” by £504,506. When the
term ended the liquid surplus
(stock, debtors, cash, less all
current liabilities) was £139,029
stronger at £876,789.
Announcing the smaller
interim div. (dropped from 8|
p.c. to 6! p.c.) the co. said sales
and profit for the half-year to
January 31 were down on the
previous corresponding period,
due chiefly to slacker trading in
the city-located stores. The news
was anticipated by the share-
market. On last sale of 9s. the
let urn from the ss. shares on a
32| p.c. div.-basis is 6.9 p.c. Net
tangible asset backing for the
ords. is 9s. Bd., and for the
lightly held prefs. £l3.
Swan Portland Cement, Ltd.
OHARING a reduced West-
ralian market for cement
and cement products with a
newly-formed competitor, Swan
Portland Cement, Ltd., experi-
enced less favorable trading-
conditions last term, and net
earnings dropped by 39.1 p.c.
Swan was formed 30 years
ago. To finance extensive addi-
tions to plant (completed last
year), in 1951 shareholders were
offered 173,737 £1 ords. at a 10s.
premium, on a one-for-one basis.
Paid capital, all in ords.,
amounts to £347,474.
Australian production of
cement increased during the
1955-56 financial year, but a
drop in demand was registered
in West Australia, where the
boom following the (subse-
quently disappointing) oil-strike
has gone very flat, and the co.
was unable to take full advantage
of its new plant and increased
productive capacity. The out-
put of cement for the year to
June 30 last (undisclosed) was
below the previous term’s record
of 140,085 tons, and well under
installed capacity.
The appearance of the new
local competitor (in August, ’55)
led to a reduction of 18s. 9d. a
ton in the price of cement, so
that, despite a big (£61,681) cut
in the provision for depreciation
(£38,937), net profit tumbled
from £112,347 to £68,382:
Re-
June, Profit. f Dividend serves.
£ £ £
1952.. 22,434 111 p.c. = 23,617 150.857
Share-premiums, £22,362 .. 173,219
Loss sale assets, £26 .. 178,193
1953.. 52.462 12j p.c. = 40,720 184.985
Profit sale assets, £lB5 .. 185.120
1954.. 89.458 15 p.c. = 52,120 222,458
Profit sale assets. £534 .. 222,992
1955.112,347 17J p.c. = 60,808 274,531
Profit sale assets, £897 .. 274,928
1956.. 68.332 10 p.c. = 34,748 308,502
Earnings, claimed after an un-
stated provision for taxation,
equalled a return of 19.6 p.c. on
share-capital, compared with the
previous term’s 32.2 p.c. and
25.7, 16.1, 10.6 and 17.3 p.c. back
to 1951. The dividend-rate, lifted
from 15 p.c. to 17! p.c. in 1955,
was lowered to 10 p.c., giving an
average 13! p.c. for the last five
years.
Designed to increase pro-
ductive-capacity and to lower
costs, additions to plant, planned
several years ago, were com-
pleted during the term, and the
cost-/eM-depreciation value of
fixed assets jumped by £216,468
or 52 p.c.:
1954. 1955. 1,956.
Paid capital £347,474 £347,474 £347,474
Reserves .. 222,458 274,531 308,562
Overdraft .. 96,859
Creditors . . 68,378 108,513 93,863
Tax provision 77,489 113,877 36,515
Final divs. 34,747 34,747 17,374
£750,546 £879,142 £900,647
Land, buildings,
plant .. 395,088 414,070 630,538
Debentures 151,247
Stocks .. 122,024 125,930 179,409
Debtors .. 139,380 140,472 89,145
Cash, etc... '94,048 47,423 1,555
£750,546 £879,142 £900,647
The heavy capital-expenditure
affected liquidity, and after
allowing for an extra £53,479 in
stocks, working-capital fell from
£91,435 to £42,872. Holdings of
cash and debentures were
reduced by £197,015, and the co.
ran up a £96,859 overdraft, but
reduced its indebtedness to
creditors by £14,650.
Demand for cement in the
West has shown little improve-
ment in the current term
(although building activity in
that State has increased slightly
over recent months), and the
board has warned shareholders
against expecting an early
improvement in turnover. How-
ever, the 10 p.c. div. was well
covered last term, and the
market prices the f.-p. ords. at
245. 3d., to return 8.2 p.c. on a
continued 10 p.c. basis. Net
tangible asset backing at June
30 was 375. 9d.
Television Corporation
'T'HOSE whose investment
•*- vision prompted them to
take up shares in Television
Corporation, Ltd., in August,
1955, are now peering into the
murky future and wondering
what the programme for them


Invest in a well-established
MANUFACTURING ORGANISATION
FERRIS INDUSTRIES
LIMITED (Paid-up Capital £235,000 )
MAIN TRADING SUBSIDIARY
FERRIS BROS. PTY. LTD.
will be pleased to accept
Short Term Deposits
per annum for « YEARS
2
7%
A
per annum for
6^
o
6
per annum for yM T H S
INTEREST PAYABLE i YEARLY
Additional working
capital is required to
finance the manufacture
of Ferris Television
Receivers, Ferris Car
Radios, Channel Master
Television Aerials, acces-
sories and component
parts.
For further details and form of application
’phone, write or send coupon
To Secretary, FERRIS INDUSTRIES Ltd.,
752 Pittwater Rd., Brookvale, XW 0221.
Please send me details of Short Term Deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
B 27/3
7
E f«fEr£o PE S
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
“JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5j ins. x 3i ins.,
61 x 3i and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson i O’Sullivan [2;
Envelop* Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304.306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
is going to be. The co.’s station,
TCN., Channel 9, was first to
operate in N.S.W., and its broad-
casting, from the technical point
of view, was of a high order
right from the start. But from
the entertainment point of view
all Australian TV has a long way
to go (cricket and other sports
events are by far the best). The
number of TV-receivers operat-
ing in N.S.W. is not much
greater than 10,000, and from
the advertiser’s point of view that
doesn’t represent much of a
cover—about the same as the
circulation of a suburban free
daily.
Revenue of the commercial
TV-stations in Australia will be
solely from advertising, as in
the U.S.A. The shareholder in
commercial TV in Australia has
at present three main factors to
ponder over: (1) the huge
revenue of U.S. TV-stations ; (2)
the huge losses incurred by the
U.K. commercial station ; and
(3) the limited population of
Australia and the slow rate at
which TV is taking on.
The TV-manufacturing in-
dustry is planning on sales of
300,000 sets this year. If it
achieves that figure it will make
the path of the TV-station con-
siderably easier, because its
advertising-cover will be more
valuable. But those 300,000 sets
have still to be sold. In the
meantime Television Corpora-
tion has not yet found it neces-
sary to make a final call on its
issue of 1,900,000 10s. shares at
present paid up to 7s. 6d. each.
But the market takes a dimmer
view of the situation than it
did when Channel 9 first started
operating. Then the shares
moved to around paid-up par.
Now they’re selling at around
ss. 9d.
Shares in Television Corpora-
tion look like a long-term spec,
for the Australian investor. But
the co. has big financial interests
backing it.
U.D.P.
T'YIFFICULT terrain and low
copper prices have brought
to a halt the copper-prospecting
venture announced by Uranium
Development and Prospecting,
N.L., late last year.
Some drilling has been carried
out in the Mt. Hardy (N.T.) area,
but the board considers that
altered circumstances have made
the proposition uneconomical.
U.D.P. holds 750,000 2s. 6d.
shares in Australian Uranium
Corp., N.L. (currently seeking
finance to enable operations at
Adelaide River [N.L.] to be
recommenced), and 400,000 ss.
shares in South Alligator
Uranium, N.L.
The f.-p. 2s. 6d. shares in
U.D.P. last sold at Bd.
Copper-refining
AT a time when low copper
prices makes copper-mining
less profitable it is opportune
that C.5.1.R.0. has made con-
siderable progress with experi-
ments into the economical
“fluidised-solids” methods of
extracting copper from sulphide
ores.
A patent is being sought to
cover improvements to a
recently-designed roaster-plant
in which copper concentrates
are converted into a compound,
soluble in dilute acid.
Previous attempts to “roast”
sulphide minerals, to give soluble
compounds suitable for electro-
lytic refining, have had little
success, and in many cases the
pure metal is got by refining the
“blister” copper obtained by
furnace-treatment of the concen-
trates.
The new process is particu-
larly suitable for the medium-
scale production carried out at
most important Australian
copper-mines, giving it a further
advantage over the orthodox
method, which requires large-
scale production i'or maximum
efficiency.
Mt. Morgan, Ltd., Mt. Lyell
Mining and Railway Co., Ltd.,
Mt. Isa Mines, Ltd., and Peko
Mines, N.L., are co-operating
with C.5.1.R.0. in the experi-
mental programme.
- That rugged and reliable in-
vestment personality, Newbold
General Refractories, Ltd.,
which took under its wing the
small but old-established and
profitable tile- and brick-making
concern of Goodlet and Smith
Ltd., in 1955 and made a one-
for-four bonus-issue the same
year, recently declared an
interim of 6| p.c. (12| p.c. p.a.)
on its million of capital, com-
pared with 10 p.c. for 1955-56.
The co. has built-up its business
on firebricks and general retrac-
tories, and has expanded as the
steel and glass industries have
developed. It has works at May-
field (near Newcastle), Port
Kembla, Thirroul and Coniston.


lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
k 100% BRITISH.
k SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
k HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
V BURNS 12 HOURS ON I* PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
k 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
/
F MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE: '
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 MT: ALEXANDER RD.. ESSENDON, VICTORIA
. • " - ■■'trr-s ■■ . . '
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
'THE Government’s stock,
which has declined with
consistency, may not yet
be at its lowest. One recent
week was especially black in
by-election results. Labor,
represented by Megan Lloyd
George, captured Carmarthen
from the Liberals, who had
Conservative support. Wed-
nesbury was a resounding
defeat and, as if to rub in the
salt, Warwick and Leamington,
which Sir Anthony Eden held
for 31 years, was explosive in
its expression of disfavor, the
Conservative majority falling
from 13,466 to 2,157. And at
Bristol West, held the same
day, the Conservative majority
fell by 8,000.
The Warwick result is the
cruellest shock yet, represent-
ing a 12 per cent, swing to the
Socialists. If this were to
happen at a general election it
would mean a Labor majority
in the House of Commons of
about 450!
Of course, the circumstances
were exceptional. Eden’s 1955
majority was swollen by local
pride in him as Prime Minister.
There was no Independent
candidate to absorb the votes
of the Tory discontents. And
this constituency, once a rather
classy retreat for gentlefolk,
has changed in character with
the second industrial revolu-
tion. Not only does it house
many workers in the depressed
motor-trade, but the finer
houses are now owned by the
new elite executives, key-men
and technocrats generally—who
bitterly resent the high taxation
and other lack of incentives
about which so much is being
heard at present.
By-elections are of particular
interest to the political observer
because they are unaccountable
and capable of so many
different interpretations. Their
chief fascination, perhaps, is
they are utterly unreliable
as a means of forecasting the
trend in a general election.
Catch-as-cateh-can
The Opposition is noisier
and more derisive than ever.
Encouraged by these results, the
campaign of yah-booing will
intensify. Shrieks of “Resign”
and other backyard impreca-
tions will continue to degrade
the Mother of Parliaments;
and it is to be expected that the
proceedings will suffer votes
of censure on every possible
occasion from matters of high
policy to minor legislative
reforms.
In the same week as the
by-election results, both sides
of the House went near to
making themselves look ridicu-
lous over Sir David Eccles’s
alleged Budget-leak. What
amounted to an innocent, if
careless, slip of the tongue was
magnified to a major indiscre-
tion, comparable to those of
J. H. Thomas and Hugh
Dalton. Once again Gaitskejl
showed his haste to grip the
Government by the throat and
was primarily responsible for
wasting 4| hours of the
Chamber’s time. And the
Chancellor of the Exchequer,
in seeking to defend his col-
league, made the most inept
showing to the House since
Morrison’s unhappy tenure as
Foreign Secretary.
A change for the better,
however desirable, is remote
in the extreme. It remains to
be seen whether the Budget, on
April 9, will prove to be a
turning-point.
Castle in Spain
Henry de Montherland,
though famous in his native
France, is virtually unknown
as a playwright in England. It
is courageous of Donald
Wolfit, now apparently deploy-
ing his unique talents on plays
about religion, to introduce him
to London audiences.
“The Master of Santiago”
(Lyric, Hammersmith) is
plainly a long remove from
show - business. Production
costs are so drastically cut as
to evidence a versatility
unknown in the commercial
theatre: not only do the
general-administrator and the
business-manager act in the
literal sense as players, but the
stage-manager is assistant
producer to Donald Wolfit
who, in turn, is principal actor.
This economy of resource,
while utterly commendable,
unfortunately does less than
justice to the complexity of the
play. For Montherland is no
facile theatrical practitioner.
Rather does he seem to be an
idiosyncratic and slightly
predous - sounding man-of-
letters. This play is not only
overwritten but so overstocked
as to need the detachment of an
independent producer to break
it down.
In concept, it is an epic of
religious chivalry in which the
hero, Don Alvaro, quixotically
tries to uphotd an ancient but
moribund order, rebels against
the worldliness of his com-
panions, influences his daughter
away from the sins of the
flesh (that is to say, from lawful
wedlock) and, finally, with her
at his side, kneels before the
white light of purification. But
execution sadly belies concept.
Don Alvaro, after his saintly
uprightness in the first act,
becomes insupportable, un-
scrupulous and cruelly single-
minded—an Edward Moulton-
Barrett of New Worldly Spain,
Except for the naturalness,
both in puzzlement and in
innocence, of Mary Pat
Morgan’s Mariana, the acting
is either inadequate or too
smooth. For all his restraint,
Donald Wolfit is unable quite
to avoid pomposity and a
velvety pile on the wrong kind
of fabric. Yet, notwithstanding
the cheeseparing, the self-
conscious purple of the writing,
the quaint religiosity and the
unintended dramatic red-
herrings, a certain grandiose
dignity emerges. The play
deserves success, if only to
prepare the way for the next
production, “Malatesta,” by the
same author and with, it is to
be hoped, ampler resources.
Penthouse Pent
“Subway in the Sky" (Savoy
Thea(re) is a lhril , er about
American Armv mainr
American Army major
<?> cha ;y S? 011 ’ w , ho . becaus °
of past Communist sympathies
ana worse ls A.W.O.L. He
ielurns lo hls skyscraper apart-
ment to find it occupied
temporarily by a soft-hearted
English divorcee (Margaret
Lockwood). She conceals him
from a Bob Hope-ish detective
(Nigel Stock) of extraordinary
rudeness and quite incredible
stupidity. The British author,
lan Main, simulates the down-
town idiom and sustains the
interest well. His denouement
is rather flat but, all in all, you
get your money’s worth, in-
eluding two deaths, a noble
paternal self-sacrifice and act-
ing which gives a good deal
more than it receives.


A New Size and Shape
TODAY’S issue of The
Bulletin is of a new
size and shape that is the
result of several years’
preparation.
Why The Bulletin was ever
the particular size that has
been familiar to readers for the
past 77 years no one in this
day can say. It was an unusual
size among newspapers and
magazines.
The first eight-page issue of
The Bulletin had exactly the
same depth and width of read-
ing-matter as that of last week’s
issue—that is, deep by
wide, with an overall size
of 17in. by lOfin.
A historian has recorded
that “in its earliest infancy
The Bulletin did not own a
workable press of its own. The
papers were printed by an out-
side firm and carried back to
the office to be folded.”
Actually The Bulletin did
have a press on its premises
when the first issue was printed
—a machine, records W. H.
East, who helped put the first
issue into type, driven by “the
quaintest curiosity of a gas-
engine ever built. This engine
stood vertically, and every time
combustion took place the
explosion and vibration
extinguished all neighboring
gaslights.. . .The press was of
German origin, and had been
in use at the Garden Palace
Exhibition.”
But on the eventful occasion
of The Bulletin’s first issue,
“put to bed” by the audacious
John Haynes and J. F. Archi-
bald, the machine wouldn’t
work, and the first two issues
were printed at the office of the
“Freeman’s Journal.” The
printed sheet in the early days
was folded by hand and
trimmed with an ordinary
butcher’s-knife—the first fold
being made in the office, the
second out on the footpath
when the papers were handed
to the newsboys.
Even the extraordinary gas-
engine didn’t always succeed
in turning The Bulletin’s
press, and more often than not
it had to be turned by hand,
which was a laborious job,
until W. H. Traill, the manag-
ing-editor, conceived the idea
of attaching a cart-wheel,
which made the turning easier.
Many new presses were
required over the past 77 years
to print The Bulletin, and
they were all made to The
Bulletin’s own size and
design. But the size was never
changed, such being tradition
and custom.
Black-and-white Art
Though The Bulletin has
always been a leader in the dis-
play of Australian black-and-
white art, the x
page has been a problem to an
artist doing a full-page cartoon
or illustration. The page was
too deep for its width. Hence
cartoonists drawing, say, a
group of politicians around a
Cabinet-room table have found
that they were cramped for
width but had far too much
head-room, which it was almost
impossible to fill-up.
David Low, who, because of
his magnificent caricaturing
ability, mainly drew people
rather than “subjects” in his
cartoons, in an interior scene
found the elongated Bulletin
page exasperating. So he drew
all his famous “crowd” scenes
sideways—he made the right-
hand side of the page the
bottom of it for his purposes.
“The Circus Leaves For
Home,” “Speak To Him In
Welsh, David,” and other
famous Low cartoons dealing
with W. M. Hughes were
always “sideways” cartoons.
Sometimes Phil May and
“Hop” (Livingston Hopkins)
got over the problem by using
a double-page spread as one
page.
Artist Percy Leason used to
overcome the difficulty
imposed upon him by the
narrow page by drawing
“bird’s - eye - view” cartoons —
that is, by looking down on the
scene as from a height, and
was able to fill up the top of
the cartoon with an interesting
background, which was almost
of the same prominence as the
foreground. He was able to
get masses of figures in by
this means, but the method was
essentially one for humorous
detail, not for the dramatic
cartoon or illustration com-
posed from ground-level.
It was with these problems
in mind, and with the public
demand for a handier size than
that of the 1880-1957 Bulletin,
that The Bulletin manage-
ment approached the problem
of installing a new type of
printing-press and stereotyping
plant.
After study and experiment
with different sizes, it was
decided that a page, when
trimmed ready for sale,
of llfin. by 81in. overall, and
with type-matter (and full-page
cartoons or illustrations) of
lOJin. by 7£in., seemed to be
the most handy and attractive
size for the reader.
An outline plan was there-
upon prepared by Mr. H. K.
Prior, managing-director of
The Bulletin.
In 1954 inquiries were sent
to Great Britain and Germany
as well as to Bell and Valentine
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, seeking
quotations for a new rotary
press.
Subsequently, after confer-
ences between Mr. H. K. Prior,
Mr. Charles Crabtree, of the
Crabtree organisation and Mr.
William R. Bell, the order was
placed with Bell and Valentine,
and arrangements made to
build the entire machine in
Melbourne, using ink-pumps,
stitcher-mechanism and print-
ing-cylinders to be. procured
from R. Hoe and Crabtree,
Ltd., London.
Construction took two years.
The press, comprising two 48-
page printing-units, four-color
cover-unit, and high-speed
folder with stitcher, along with
a variable-speed 70/7h.p. ASEA
electric driving - motor and
complete stereo-plant, was
installed in Sydney during
January and February.
The press is capable of pro-
ducing at 30,000 copies an hour
48-page publications with eight-
page four-color cover. The
maximum size is 96 pages, plus
cover. There is provision for
two colors on 24 pages
throughout the paper.
Color will be used mainly in
the “Australian Woman’s
Mirror”
Technical Details
The unifs are six pages wide, with
four pages around the cylinders;
the ribbed stereo-plates are seven-
sixteenths of an inch thick, and
impression cylinders carry automatic
felt blankets. Three rubbered forme-
rollers with three oscillating drums
and six distributors provide inking.
Ink-feed is by means of the Hoe
standard ink-pumps as on news-
presses.
Six Hoe portable color-pumps are
fitted, which, with turner-bars and
“bay-window” device, provide for
two colors on one-half of the pro-
duct of one unit. Collating, prior
to folding, is on the ribbon-type
principle, the webs from each six-
page-wide unit being slit into page-
width ribbons which are brought
together by angle-bars. Provision
is made to alter the sequence in
which the ribbons are led to the
folder, so as to provide for the
pages carrying two colors to be led
to varying positions in the
publication.
“Nip-and-tuck” folder with “3-2”
collecting device is included, an
additional transfer-cylinder being
provided so that the ribbons are
cut to length prior to being led on
Ihe collecting-cylinder needles. Hoe
high-speed stitcher is fitted, and the
completed copies are projected on
to conveyor, fold-first, by means
of reverse-type rotary-1 an llyers.
The cover-deck, to two pages
wide with two-and-a-halt printing-
units, is arranged to pass the web
twice through the printing-cylinders,
thus printing four colors on lace
and one on back, of the sheet. This
provides for eight-page four-color
sections and also when required lor
two four-page four-color sections.
When the folder is collecting,
the cover-unit will turn-out twice
the number of covers required;
therefore arrangements are made to
run the cover-unit hall-speed and
“on-setting pick-up” is provided to
apply covers as required to the
collected sections in the iolder.
Stereo-plates on the cover-unit
can be registered independently, and
a novel arrangement, consisting of
a knurled key engaging in the
bevelled edge of the stereos, is fitted
to allow for twisting the plates when
required.
lhe entire press and folder is
automatically lubricated by the
“pump-and-gravity” method. There
are no plain bearings, and all gears
and shaiLs are tolauy enclosed.
Power to drive the machine is
from the 70/7 h.p. commutator
ASisA motor with complete auto-
matic control. Instead of the usual
chain-drive, V-belts are fitted, result-
ing in exceptionally quiet “inching.”
Eighty Tons of Machine
1 ne total weight of the press
and equipment is 80 tons. The
machine, partly dismantled, was
transferred to Sydney by
Yellow Express Carriers in
loads of about 12 tons.
The machine is possibly the
largest and certainly the most
advanced printing-machine
designed and built in the
Southern Hemisphere. Great
credit is due to The Bulletin’s
managing-director, Mr. H. K.
Prior, who conceived the
general idea and paved the way
for the machine to be built in
Australia.
Details of the design were in
the hands of Bell and
Valentine’s chief draughtsman,
Mr. Howard F. Wannan, under
the guidance of their managing-
director, Mr. William R. Bell.
The Bulletin believes that
the new presentation of its
traditional features, with others
added, will be appreciated
by its readers.
The Bulletin was the first
newspaper in Australia to use
process-engraving as a regular
thing for the reproduction of
black-and-white work ; it was
early in its use of the linotype
for typesetting; it was first in
Australia (1933) to use “The
Times” new Roman letter
which now appears in most
Australian and (sometimes
modified) overseas publica-
tions ; arid, in co-operation
with Bell and Valentine Pty.,
Ltd., the makers, it believes it
has achieved something in
construction of this modern
Australian high-speed multi-
color magazine-press.


or Speed and Service
m m u j
■TfX'iT'msfry yy ; yr
r-\; •
'
4M
.w v
.
mmtkMm ' mmm
.. ■ ,
■'•• &
«2*i
r®
******
- *****■. -4 ' **r ',,*«*pi ,**■
WILHELMSEN LINES
Regular service to the Middle East, the Continent
and Scandinavia.
Refrigerated as well as general cargo space avail-
able. Limited first-class passenger accommodation
available in double- or single-deck cabins.
AMERICAN PIONEER LINE
Rapid service of modern refrigerated Cargo
Vessels from Australia to U.S. and Canadian
Atlantic Coast Ports, and Trinidad via Panama
Canal. Vessels carry a limited number of
passengers in saloon accommodation.
AUSTRALIA-WEST PACIFIC LINE
Serving Manila, Hong Kong and main Japanese
ports —returning via New Guinea and Island
Ports. Regular sailings by Milos, Delos, Aros
and Citos with general and refrigerated space
available; also special mechanical ventilation for
Fruit, Vegetables, etc., in ’tween decks.
Luxurious passenger accommodation in single- or
two-berth cabins.
Fly Xv#X
SCANDINAVIAN AIRLINES SYSTEM
ON THE NEW POLAR SHORT-CUT ROUTE TO EUROPE
• Tokyo to Copenhagen via Anchorage, Alaska.
• Two Flights each way every week.
• Mighty DC-7C “Global Express” Airliners, the newest and finest Douglas Aircraft
in the world today!
• “Royal Viking” First Class and “Globe-trotter” Tourist with new staggered “Comfort
Line” seating, exclusive to SAS.
• SAS —first over Pole from Los Angeles to Copenhagen, now first again with this
new POLAR SHORT-CUT —which saves approximately 20 hours and some 2300
miles against the Southern Middle East Route.
WfISASIM/IV/V/VW/UMWVIQT
full details concerning the above
contact your local agent
WILH„ WILHELMSEN AGENCY Pty. Ltd..
~~ • '" lw ' 1 ■ ' ■■■ ■
51 William Street., Melbourne—-MB 3536
66 Pitt Street, Sydney BU 6301


An Affair of Clowns
".... administered a stinging blow to Lucy's rear.”
I WAS Lucy’s confidante and
wailing-wall when she fell
in love with what, in arty
circles, is called an Out-
sider. I—and half Sydney,
that is, because Lucy took the
phrase “publish the banns” in
its widest sense. But that's
typical of an artist, who not
only wears his heart on his
sleeve, but waves it like a flag
from the housetops.
Lucy painted, and, in spite of
the fact that no woman painter
has ever set the world on fire
since Rosa Bonheur, Lucy was
imbued with a “sense of
mission,” and had dedicated
herself to the easel for life.
But she had a whopping
inferiority-complex about one
thing—the inability of people
to take her seriously. Her burn-
ing intensity about everything,
from spilling the salt to the
death-rattle of a relative, only
a r,s ”sed uproarious amusement
among her friends. She could
never understand how minor
tragedies in the lives of other
people became farce when they
happened to her.
So, as a defence against the
hurt of irrelevant laughter,
she kept the cap-and-bells on
for all occasions. And when-
ever some solemn longhair
chided her: “Aren’t you ever
serious?” Lucy said: “I don’t
want to be serious. I’m afraid
of being laughed at.”
It was like that, anyway,
until Pauli.
I’ll never forget her racing
into my room at Darling Point
one evening, where I was lying
on the sofa just starting Man
the Unknown (the book, I
mean). She sat down, smiling
in a ghastly way, and looked
at me. I looked back, bracing
myself instinctively. It was a
kind of reflex you got with
Lucy.
“I’m in love,” she said, in a
tone more suited to “Crossing
the Bar” than “The Song of
Solomon.”
If she had said: “I’ve just
taken poison,” I could have
accepted her wide, tragic eyes
and drawn face without such
a wild impulse to giggle. Some-
thing had made Lucy forget
her role. But knowing her yen
to be taken seriously, I sat up,
jerking my head at the side-
board.
“All right, pour us a sherry
while you tell me.”
VX/L settled down to our
sherries.
“But it’s terrible,” Lucy
raged, glaring at me as if I
were responsible. “Such a type.
He’s Hungarian, and just all
nerve-centre and drumming
pulse, if you know what I
mean. No Mind at all.”
And, of course, one almost
saw the mighty frontal bones
start out from Lucy's brow,
positively bristling- with Mind.
“I can’t resist him,” she
deplored. “It’s like an
irresistible pull. I try to fend
him off, but I’m helpless.”
I held out my glass. “What
are you going to do?”
I quelled a pang of envy.
The only irresistible pull I had
ever felt was at the dentist’s.
Lucy passed me my refill.
“Will you look at him for
me?” (I was a bacteriologist).
“Tell me what you think.
Perhaps I’m too close to see
clearly.”
“Trot him along,” I said,
“Only it’s the first time I’ll
have had a Hungarian under
the microscope. Aren't you
afraid he might be catching?”
Lucy was too far gone even
to grin. She said fervently:
“Oh, Patty, if only he were!
Only I’m terribly afraid I see
something in him no one else
does.”
What she saw was as old as
Adam, but that was Lucy—
everything happened for the
first time when it happened to
her.
“You know, it’s mostly all
glands with you,” I told her
wryly. “You ought to get them
looked at.”
She brooded into her glass.
“Imagine me with a grand
passion—damn you!—l mean
grand passion. Clowns don't
have passions.”
Ah, well, she was young, and
Chaplin hadn’t been revived
then, or she’d have known
better.
I had an inspiration. “Can’t
you paint him out of your
system?”
I must confess that as regards
love we often used our arts-
and-crafts as a kind of cistern
to flush the noisome emotion
away.
“That’s it!” she stormed.
“I’ve dried up, or I’d have got
rid of him before this, like I did
when I thought I was going
overboard for that ambulance-
driver. You know, Patty, it
can’t be love, because love is a
Creative Force, which opens
the floodgates.”
“Well, he must be good,” I
said, “to dry you up.”
r T' , HE bacteriological test
-*■ was set to take place at
my next party.
There was a schoolteacher,
young and degenerating, who
arrived in bare feet, several
young writers who looked like
curates, some sailor the school-


By
THELMA
FORSHAW
teacher had brought with her
a stoker, in fact, who was
quite quaint in that setting—
and Lucy and her Fate. A good
mixture, even for a Darling
Point apartment Science,
education, art, the Navy and a
Grand Passion.
Well, he was a boy, the
Hungarian. Good-looking in
the romantic style, if you like
your eyelids needing match-
sticks, a curly mouth and hair,
and a brown, satiny chest which
showed when he slowly un-
wound his scarf. I focused on
the chest, which had a texture
you don't see on Bondi Beach.
Yes, I saw what Lucy saw,
and I wasn’t a painter. Only
1 wasn't disgusted, as she was.
Pauli didn’t say a word all
night, just leaned back on the
sofa—everyone else was on the
floor —and pretended to sip at
a glass of sherry, which stayed
like those trick bottles in wine-
shop windows, perpetually full.
1 opened fire. “What do you
think of Gauguin?”
“Yes,” he said, “for shoes
and handbags, very nice. And
now for coats they use it also.”
1 paused a moment, and then
went quietly. “Yes, grosgrain
is versatile. You’re in textiles,
are you?”
His teeth were white, tropical
in his dark face. Yes, I quite
saw . . .
“Lucy is designing for us a
summer material I think will
sell very good here. We just
start, my family and I . . . and
next week we leave the
farm”
“Farm?”
Lucy, Lucy, how you have
strayed!
“Chicken-farm.”
“Oh,” I said dully, noticing
his soft, brown hands.
Yes, a dish fit for an Eastern
queen.
Lucy looked at me with
despair, as my microscope
brought up a juicy specimen of
Streptococcus Sex-appeal.
“You see?” she said hope-
lessly.
After the party, she agreed
to stay the night with me, but
the beautiful bacillus gave her
an intense dark look, and she
went off with him, buckling
visibly at the knees.
I sat on my couch with a lone
sherry.
“Well, Bonheur,” I said into
the spirit world, “don't move
over yet—if ever.”
DEVELOPING very
robustly, the infection
moved into the virulent stage
of furious quarrelling.
I nursed Lucy through the
first brawl, with copious sherry
and a copy of Lust for Life,
hoping Van Gogh would pull
her together. But the title alone
seemed to make her shudder,
and she only raged up and
dowm my room, weeping
analytically.
“If only he was someone, it
might be worth it. But he isn't
even a Person. He’s still at the
biological stage.” She veered
off pettishly. “Imagine him
trying to pick my friends for
me. He says you’re all
decadents.”
“That’s not his word,” I said
shrewdly. “You've been talk-
ing.”
Lucy paused to cope with a
guilty look. “He says all arty-
craftics are decadents. Pattv,
what can I do to get rid of
him! ”
She turned to me with a grin
like a sabre-toothed tigress:
“I know! You give another
party”
“Thank you!” I retorted.
“and I’ll behave so badly.
he’ll despise me. He’s fiercely
conventional.”
1 shot her a nervous look.
“I had a lot of trouble getting
this room, Lucy”
“Yes, yes ; what I mean is,
you all play-up to me so that
the worst comes out”
“In other words, you want
this declared a disorderly
house?”
“No, only me.”
CO I invited a couple of fiends
over from the Uni. whose
banners were bawdiest and
whose antics the most police-
worthy during student proces-
sions, and I primed them before
Lucy and her Fatal Illness
arrived.
When she catapulted in that
evening, one of the Uni. stooges
caught her in his arms and said
earnestly: “Hello, darl, got a
reefer?”
Pauli glowered, sauntered up
to him, said nothing very
eloquently, then snatched Lucy
to his breast with a snarl. At
that moment I envied her
deeply.
Lucy fought free, and clung
to Rodney, gasping out her
feed-line: “Do you remember
that night in the cemetery ...?”
so unconvincingly I was
appalled.
——“when we fell into an
open grave,” he panted. “What
an experience! Just that extjfa
titillafion needed to whoop-up
jaded senses . . .”
This necrophilistic remini-
scence started a low rumble in
Pauli's satiny chest. He lifted
his hand and administered a
stinging blow to Lucy’s rear.
She fell away from Rodney
like a full-fed leech, and Lover
Boy had no more trouble with
her all that evening. It was a
woeful fiasco, and I had to
pay-off the Uni.-boys with two
bottles of sherry.
The worst of it, Lucy told
me later, was that Pauli hadn’t
understood one word. The
only impression he got was
that she was weak with men
and needed firm restraint.
IVfHAT had all the elements
of a grand passion
developed into a zany kind of
Human Bondage with the
Marx Brothers in the leading
roles.
Gradually, Pauli revealed a
histrionic flair matching Lucy’s
own. He was a slow starter,
but, once he caught on, he
stole every scene.
Lucy reeled in every other
evening with the latest bulletin,
in which I detected a new
chagrin at being outdone.
“He banged his head against
the wall of the porch because
I said I wouldn't see him again.
He kept on banging and bang-
ing, thinking I’d stop him. And
when I didn’t he tore open his
shirt and clawed a diagram for
naughts and crosses on it with
his nails, and —isn’t it awful,
Patty!—l wanted to laugh.”
“But if you did it ...” I
said pointedly.
“Yes, that’s what I mean. I
know he’s not putting it on.
He feels it because he’s foreign.
Oh, we feel it, all right!”
“A little thinking might be
a novelty among all this feel-
ing,” I suggested. “Where’s it
going to end?”
“ Anywhere, so long as it
does,” Lucy said fervently. “It
can’t last much longer now.
I’m all-in, and he’s beginning
to look a little peaky himself.
The thing is to run him info
the ground and thert he’ll just
creep away and lick his
wounds, and I’ll be free.”
Then one evening she
tottered in and flung a sheet of
paper at me.
f( Took at that?” she said.
A letter written in his own
blood.”
A CTUALLY, it was only
two lines, but I peered at
the pale, watery script and
said: “This doesn’t look like
Pauli, unless he’s got anaemia.”
Then she burst out: “That’s
what / think. It’s probably
chook’s blood.”
And she burst into tears.
“Oh, yes—the farm,” I said
thought* ully. “Well, you’ve got
to admit he’s resourceful. Why
use your own when”——
Its just terribly humiliating
to be made love to in chook’s
blood, that’s all,” she sobbed.
‘‘l’ve got no objection to plain
ink. Why does he make it into
a farce?”
“He’s got to keep up with
you somehow,” I said, “and you
do go for the blood-and-
th under”
“Don’t talk about blood to
me,” Lucy said bitterly.
I had an inspiration. “Of
course! He's trying to be arty
Medieval-romantic. His cool
business-brain hasn’t impressed
you. The dumb, stricken reac-
tion which is natural to him
didn’t work either, so”
But Lucy said: “All I know
is Real Love shouldn’t be like
a—three-ring circus—an affair
of clowns .. . .”
I could see she was running
down and I looked at her
solemnly.
“You know what? Marry
him. You might as well get
your first over and done with—
that is, unless it turns out to
be chropjc.”
“A good idea,” she said
gratefully, “I’m all-in.”
Just as though marriage
were an Eventide Home for
weary, battle-scarred lovers.
CHE married Pauli, and it
turned out to be chronic.
Lucy became very able in the
textile-designing field, and so,
as Rosa Bonheur no doubt
gets to say quite often, “another
Injun bit the dust.”


LOW's
Autobiography
H. G. WELLS
(Looking soulful, according to
Low’s book-caption.)
“Disciple that I was” is how David Low describes his
association and friendship with H. G. Wells, frankly recording
here something of Wells’s later days . . . Americans Sinclair
Lewis and Thurber in London . . . Valentine Castlerosse,
“liveliest social columnist of his generation” . . . “The New
Rake’s Progress” . . . Mosley and suchlike outbreaks of the
bewildered ’thirties.
21
(Continued)
HjpjT has always been
something to be on
| the H. G. Wells’ visit-
sj ing-list, and the grace-
| ful hospitality of Jane
brought us among
some congenial people
—the Will Rothensteins, the
Richard Nevinsons, Richard
Gregory, Denison Ross, J. B. S.
Haldane, the Harold Laskis,
the Frank Horrabins, George
Catlin and Vera Brittain, the
Julian Huxleys, as well as the
occasional meteor from the
open sky, Chaliapin, whose
wonderful voice surged out of
H.G.’s flat and filled Whitehall
Court with delight at a memor-
able party. Apart from that,
he sticks in my memory only
as a boisterous, chesty,
emotional chap, whose talk I
couldn’t understand.
These occasions, and others
more private, were valuable
for me mainly because they
kindled H.G. to hold forth.
A stimulating and evocative
talker is no remarkable pheno-
menon; but Wells had the
rare ability to make himself
clear, to make difficult ideas
assimilable, to excite curiosity
and to prompt inquiry.
Willingness to dispense en-
lightenment does not always
connote the power to do so,
in our age of popular educa-
tion. Through H. G., who
seemed to me to be himself a
symbol of this age, both pro-
duced by it and producing it,
millions of my generation
could glimpse for the first
time the possible excitement
and entertainment of history
and science.
He had little patience with
those who talked and wrote
only for their own' esoteric
kind, and to him the label
“journalist” was no term of
belittlement; and though he
himself was an artist, he came
to have even less patience
with virtuosity merely. The
man of talents who used them
without social purpose was
like a motorist who ran his
car in the garage and never
ventured on the roads.
He well knew that ignor-
ance is the enemy. And to
combat it he was at one and
the same time specialised and
comprehensive, the genius and
>the ordinary, the bridge over
which commoner men could
struggle through their own
confusion towards under-
standing of the affairs that
rule their life and death.
Scientist, novelist, sociologist,
prophet—but primarily the
co-ordinating link between all
these and the ordinary man,
who, without his like, must
live forever in darkness of
mind. I was an admiring
audience.
H.G. was most effective in
print, and more effective
among a private company of
half-a-dozen or so than at a
public meeting. That was a
trouble, because frequently he
liked a public meeting, and he
just hadn’t the equipment.
The vibrant baritone of his
writing came out a peevish
soprano in his speech. The
handicap of a high-pitched
voice that squeaked when he
got wound-up was easily imi-
tated and ridiculed. “If only
he could change the needle,
what that guy could be.”
When, after losing a
contest for the Lord Rector-
ship of Glasgow University to
Lord Birkenhead, he made an-
other attempt on London Uni-
versity, I faithfully sat in the
front row to hear him address
the students. It was soon
evident that we were in the
presence of a mistake. They
were listening to his voice, not
to what he was saying. “You
shouldn’t have come, David,”
said he, mortified at my
witnessing his bad show.
CONVERSATION with
H.G. called for more listen-
ing than speaking, but in its
nature discouraged passivity.
Disciple that I was, there
were some things upon which
I disagreed. I didn’t believe in
his scientific Samurai, for in-
stance the technical elite
"I LOVE LIFE ” SAID PARAMUZZI
(Low tells in this instalment how identities had to be changed or
disguised in H. G. Wells’s “The Autocracy of Mr. Parham,"
which Low illustrated. But there wouldn’t have been much
doubt about Paramuzzi.)


that, according to him, were
to take over the future
running of the world.
I can remember only my
own disapproval. “I should
have to be very careful indeed
of your damned supermen
with their damned oil-cans,
H.G., arranging everything
for us boobs whether we liked
it or not,” I said. “I have use
for Socialism only so far as it
helps us all to grow to our full
stature mentally as well as
physically, and I might have
to stand Samurai, too, up to
a point. But by God I would
keep an eye on them.”
I could never repose the
sublime trust he did i n
scientists, who seemed to me
a remarkably simple-minded
set of people apart from their
specialities.
WE had a bit of a
difference over a
cartoon I drew of a little wee
Hitler defying the universe,
standing on a big hand reach-
ing out of the clouds. H.G.
said it was the hand of God
and I was fostering -super-
stition. I, a bit sore, replied
that I wasn’t religious about
not being religious, like some
persons I knew.
Our discords were few and
friendly, but enough to try
H.G.’s patience and to make
it clear that he could be
sensitive to criticism. No one
becomes completely imper-
vious, I thought when I wit-
nessed his irritation at a guest
who repaid his weekend
hospitality by printing an
article entitled “The Failure of
H. G. Wells.”
H.G. never talked to me
about his attitude to sex or
his widely-advertised love-
affairs, although of course I,
like forty-seven million other
people, knew all about them.
I was probably not a sym-
pathetic-looking prospect for
such confidings. For one thing,
as a New Zealander, in whose
country women’s rights had
been accepted long before,
doubtless I had insufficiently
realised the infuriating stupid-
ity about sex against which
H.G. had ranged himself
twenty years before. The
assertion of principles by
flaunting example is one thing.
But an individual search, by
trial and error, for perfection in
the sexual act is another,
narrowly personal with nothing
particularly admirable about it.
Then again, although I my-
self am incurably romantic
in my approach to women,
the actual means whereby the
species is perpetuated always
struck me as richly comic, and
I cannot help laughing in the
wrong places at Romeos who
want to romanticise their bio-
logical urges.
Undoubtedly it is just as
well that the machinery of
reproduction provides such an
enjoyable sideline, for if it did
not, Lord knows what many
people would think, plan and
talk about. But I see nothing
but childish humbug in trying
to salvage dignity by con-
fusing the ideas of “love” and
love. The two are as
essentially different as taking
and giving.
And there were other
interests in life, after all. There
were times when, like the
paperhanger in the funny
story, “If it’s all
the same to you,
mum, I’d rather
have a pint of
beer.”
WELLS rather
'ancied him-
self as a drawer
of “picshuas” in
delinquent - chifcl
style. Sometimes,
when I seemed to
be becoming a
public scandal, I
had a feeling
that he thought I
had a better
medium for
scoring off people
than he had.
He was always
interested in what
I was doing, but
his suggestions for cartoons
were generally unprintable.
Writers cannot usually be
of much help to artists, for
makers of words and makers
of pictures don’t think along
the same lines, both naturally
adjust themselves to the limit-
ations of their respective
techniques and each makes a
different balance of statement
and suggestion. What may be
a delicate hint in a picture
becomes a roaring assertion
in .words, and vice versa. But
if the chances o f happy
collaboration are at least as
rare as those of a happy
marriage, there will always be
plenty of optimistic attraction
about both.
So H.G. wrote a novel
which was in effect a political
cartoon and had me decorate
it with a series of political
cartoons which were in effect
illustrations. “Nash’s Mag-
azine” gave me eight double-
page spreads and we ran off
the serialisation of The Auto-
cracy of Mr. Parham in style.
It was a lark, even if it did not
quite come off.
I was accustomed to
presenting living persons and
situations in the exaggerative
terms well understood and
accepted as proper to the
forms of political caricature,
But in association with H.G.,
to whom as a novelist any
comparable freedom was un-
usual, possibly deplorable, and
therefore likely to attract libel
suits, even my own freedom
became risky. We both had to
restrain, to tone-down to
remove sting.
There was an angry fuss
when H.G. had to be stopped
from making his characters
identifiable as the editor of
the “Spectator,” Curzon,
Beaverbrook, Castlerosse, two
WELLS AND LOW EXCHANGE HATS
well-known society ladies,
et al.
I had to disguise the like-
nesses in my pictures into mere
non-committal resemblances
except in the cases of named
headline politicians, and in
one way or another H.G.’s
publishers were saved a
million-pounds’-worth of libel
actions.
Even so, questions arose
here and there as to who was
who, various nobodies gave
themselves the credit of being
H.G.’s originals, and “Time
and Tide” started to build up
a controversy which might
have been inconvenient. H.G.,
swearing under his breath at
the irony of life, had to
weigh-in with crushing affir-
mation of his own innocuos-
ness. Damn and blast it!
THIS combined operation
proved not particularly
happy, but before long H.G.
had another idea. I ran into
C. B. Cochran at a dinner one
night.
“How’s the opera coming
along?” he asks,
“Opera?” says I, hiding my
puzzlement. “Oh, fine, fine.”
It appears that H.G. in an
expansive mood had pro-
mised, he to write a kind of
revue-comic-opera and I to
do the ddcor with effects un-
specified but new and remark-
able. A grand idea, if only I
had known what it was all
about.
All I could get from H.G,
was that he had Cochran
enthusiastic, that it was to be
a great revue of a decadent
world with Noah as the central
figure, full of Wellsian politics
and satire and that the staging
was to be in the style of ancient
Greek comedy, with the actors
wearing masks turning them
into caricatures of living poli-
ticians and other nuisances.
That was to be my depart-
ment.
Cochran was properly sold
on the general idea. I got a bit
tired of dodging embarrassing
inquiries about how we were
getting on with it every time I
met him. Something had to
be done. So H.G. and I met
one night at his flat in Chiltern
Court, and after a hearty
dinner we drew up easy-chairs,
one on each side of the fire-
place, clean scribbling-pad on
knee, pencil in hand.
We sat looking first expect-
antly, then angrily, at one
another, waiting for the
lightning of inspiration to
strike. Nothing happened. The
clock chimed twelve. I went
home to bed and the subject
was never mentioned again.
Occasionally i trailed
around after H.G. as a
sort of attendant shadow to
o Continued on next page )


his public as well as private
occasions. We showed up in
pomp at the premiere of the
film based on his book Things
ta Come, and it was not all
pleasure to sit next to H.G.
sweating and cursing audibly
at the mangling of his ideas,
and afterwards to be mobbed
by people with autograph-
books as we scrambled into a
taxi.
EINSTEIN
(Possibly cleverest caricature of all in Low’s brilliant series
published as special supplements by the “New Statesman.")
H.G. perversely signed
“Low,” so I signed “H. G.
Wells,” and we both sat back
with easy consciences, feeling
that if collecting autographs
were anything like collecting
stamps these “errors” would
inevitably become very valu-
able to their owners,
night when H.G. was
in his most irritating
mood we called on Beaver-
brook. Lord B.’s political all-
in wrestling-match with Bald-
win was in full swing, and he
sat alone at his fireside looking
like Man-mountain Max in his
corner waiting for the next
round to tear his opponent
apart. On his knee was a copy
of next day’s “Daily Express,”
full of Peace, Prosperity,
Liberty, Equality, Fraternity,
Empire, Justice and Damn’-
foreign-entanglements quite
a sufficient body of doctrine to
persuade Beaverbrook that he
was politically active.
“Why don’t you do some-
thing, Max?” shrilled H.G.
“A man like you, with your
power! Why do you waste
your opportunities?”
Lord B. looked taken aback.
Shortly afterwards he began
the Empire Crusade. I do not
claim that there was any con-
nection. I merely suggest that
two and two make four.
]7 IVING in a flat, H.G. got
less exercise, wa xe d
plumper, and had to arrange
for “fitness.”
I am no good at games. I
make an appearance of con-
tending, but I always lose,
because I could never care a
damn one way or the other.
That made me, in one
respect at least, an ideal con-
tender with H.G., who always
liked to win. So every Thurs-
day morning for a while my
wife and I were willing sacri-
fices at badminton to H.G. and
a variable fourth, and great
were the leaps and smashes
and shouts of “No!”
H.G. was good, especially on
his home ground, not so
infallible away. I don’t remem-
ber his ever losing at any game
he had invented himself. But
when my wife and I organised
a brand-new game ourselves at
our house—“Pfff,” played with
a ping-pong ball on a very
wide table, four aside blowing
their heads off —it was a
different tale, and he did not
do so well. However unjustly
he accused her of blowing
off-side, even fragile Sylvia
Lynd could soundly beat him.
SOME notable
American writers
came over during these
disturbing times, prob-
ably to sample our
latest crisis for them-
selves.
My introduction to Sinclair
(“Red”) Lewis took place in
Harold Laski’s lavatory. He
was not well and had had an
exhausting day.
“Red, meet David Low,” says
Harold.
“Glad to —” says Red, and
was immediately violently ill.
Later we met again at
another party, but Red sat
silent through the first two
courses of dinner. Suddenly,
without warning and apropos
of nothing, he rose to his full
height and declaimed Chester-
ton’s “Don John of Austria”
from start to finish in loud
ringing tones. It made the
occasion, which up to then had
been a bit formal.
THERE was something
different about these
Americans. Distinctly not in
the English tradition. They
reminded me of Australia.
I was driving James Thurber
home after a party, he was
telling me about his own car,
and I asked him: “Don’t you
find having only one eye a
bit of a disadvantage when
driving?”
“Not much,” he said. Then
the conversation got around
to glass-eyes, and he told
me of a chap who had
had a special one made for
himself with the American flag
on it. When in company and
afflicted by bibulous bores,
he would turn aside, effect a
rapid switch with his everyday
regular model, and the bore
would find himself withering
under the impersonal glare of
the Stars-and-Stripes. The
effect usually was to reduce
him to such teetering uncer-
tainty as to his own condition
that he reached for his cloak
and retired.
By gum, I thought, blessed
be the light of heart. If I
were not me, I’d like to be this
guy Thurber.
nWAS fortunate, in having
at tnis time unusually con-
genial associates in Fleet-
street. Percy Cudlipp was that
rare phenomenon an editor
who knew what a political car-
toon was and how to present it.
A writer himself, he had also
intuitive grasp of pictorial
expression combined with a
naturally satiric wit. Unique
in my experience of editors,
Percy would have been a bit of
luck for any cartoonist. He
was made for me. We were,
so to speak, on the same wave-
length. • With him ideas
flowed. When we met for a
mug of tea once a week, sparks
flew.
Life was not all politics.
I had resumed the “Low and
I” line of articles about
London from the old “Star”
days, under a new title “Low
and Terry,” with a new
partner, Horace Thorogood.
Horace was another bit of
luck. Spending myself too long


and too deeply about foreign
politics, Nature demanded
relaxation. Horace had an
abiding love of country walks,
which meant that whatever
our assignment, Limehouse,
the Dog Show or a Piccadilly
night - club, we always
approached it via Rickmans-
worth or Epping Forest after
a leafy ramble and lunch at
some old country pub.
That suited me well. Our
Tuesday excursions came to be
a weekly holiday to which l
looked forward as occasions
upon which I could be taking in
instead of giving out, mixing
pleasure with our business of
“covering” the social scene,
not only at home, but some-
times abroad for a change.
Under the meekest of
exteriors Horace had a John
Bull heart. There was the
nightmare occasion in Vienna
upon which we had strayed in
search of local color into a
tough night-spot and become
involved in a dispute about
the bill which it seemed to me
coulu only end by Doth of us
being tied in sacks and thrown
down a trapdoor into the
Danube. Horace threatening
four big brutes in indignant
English was an inspiring sight
-—and successful, for we each
got out in one piece, except
for the loss of our hats.
Horace had the peculiar
qualities which I found restful
and congenial. A dry w'it, not
cynical, based upon a concep-
tion of essential decency, a
willingness to argue intermin-
ably about fundamental
principles, a liking for a good
big cigar and the cinema. Our
expeditions invariably ended
with two seats in the front
row, bang up against the screen
because we liked to see the
faces of the actors, and we
found that position best for
‘audience participation.” So
were formed the habits and
customs of an enduring friend-
ship.
THE cinema was a n
important adjunct of our
association. At this time 1 had
just discovered the uses of
films as an anodyne - a
precious aid to detachment and
recuperation of the mind in
that flat period after the end of
an exhausting labor and before
one is readjusted to face the
world anew.
Its value did not occur to
me until one evening when I
was too exhausted at the end of
a gruelling ten-hour day to go
straight home and had flopped
into a news-theatre for a sit-
down. That was just what
Nature was calling for —a seat
in the dark, cigar, music, a
picture of something going on
that invited but did not demand
attention, if one preferred to
doze.
So after that I went every
night to a different cinema for
one hour before dinner and
derived great benefit thereby,
in addition to becoming, in due
course, perhaps the world’s
champion collector of film
fragments, beginnings, middles
and ends.
This nightly dose of films
for health purposes was
additional to my weekly
homage to the full art of the
screen with Horace, because
he was irritated at what he
thought was an affront to all
concerned in making the films.
In his opinion, one should see
beginning, middle and end in
that sequence.
In vain I protested that,
considered quite apart from my
physical needs, the effect of my
way of film-viewing was more
representative of real life, since
in real life one is always
barging into the middle of
some story and leaving before
the end to go home to dinner.
SUITABLE recreation was
very necessary to me at
this time, because 1 was cer-
tainly overworking.
Acting on the principle that
the way to cure a headache is
to hit one’s head with a
hammer, I had embarked on a
lovely new job on top of my
newspaper cartoons.
In the spring of 1925 I had
spent a family holiday at
Biarritz. The Prince of Wales
was there, a beautiful piece of
character in his golf-suit,
getting persistently in my line
of vision, set up by Providence
as a model for me. As I played
a round of golf with a friend
right behind the Prince's four-
some on the local links, a
bright idea struck me. Why not
use him as a peg upon which
to hang a pageant of London
life of the time, in all its
variety, with all its person-
alities and characters?
I planned it there and then,
EVOLUTION
(Further captioned by Low “A protest against the trend towards uniformity and the
discouragement of minorities.”)
walking under the trees. But
it was not until 1933 that I
got to work on the twelve
color-plates.
Unfortunately when it came
to the point inspiration would
have been cramped and
publication impossible had the
figures, especially the central
figure, been too readily identifi-
able, so I had to tone down
the likenesses and scramble the
situations.
As it turned out I disguised
it all so well that it became
almost completely unrecog-
nisable and changed into some-
thing else, which wasn’t the
intention at all. Served me
right.
I had to abandon the original
conception and pull the whole
thing together again on some-
what different lines, remaking
the central character (who by
now had nothing to do with the
Prince). Finallv I called the
series The New Rake’s
Progress. To my delight
Rebecca West was persuaded
to write a beautiful satiric
commentary to go with it.
The New Rake's Progress
was an enormous labor that
kept me working early and
late without holidays, but I
enjoyed every minute of doing
it. So much so that when a
rich American offered me
fifteen-hundred pounds for the
twelve originals I could not
bear the idea of their being
stowed away in some private
gallery so far away and 1
refused and kept them for
myself.
this behind me, I
"V ought to have been
stimulated when there arose
in 1936 the domestic crisis
which culminated in the
abdication of King Edward
the Eighth,
But in the intervening few
years I had become too deeply
interested in the development
of affairs abroad to find the
crisis inspiring. My contribu-
lion to the matter was only
re f °f * our ‘L artoo 'l s a .^ out
Baldwin s rebuff to Cupid, a
midnight scene of mysterious
figures getting away with the
throne, crown and sceptre, and
a new addition to the world s
great love-stories.
More than a century had
passed since the ribald days
when Gillray used to stop the
traffic in Piccadilly with carica-
tures of the Royalties hanging
m print-shop windows. The
evolution of the British
(Continued on page 64)


i
*
m '
'■Pv
m
m
A:M
X
W
* '
:
' , M
w
s*y*x*2
Gillette
QOfCtr/W/Otf
fIZOR SET
w
Whether you choose the
handsome “Aristocrat” at 42/6 in '
its satin-lined case or the stream-
lined “Rocket” at 12/- you still get
smoothest and fastest shave. See for
yourself how quickly you can load the
quick-action one-piece razor with
a Blue Gillette Blade from the
quick-feed dispenser. Ah . . .
that’s Superspeed Shaving
for you!
ROCKET
SET
12'-
SEE THE SMART RANGE \
OF MODERN GILLETTE RAZOR SETS
NOW SHOWING EVERYWHERE
V
m
1
%
sS
I
I
728
w/aMCffOA'Mzee... w/oc-f&o g/veg


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
T OCAL horses had a lean
time at the Victorian
autumn carnival until Mac’s
Amber won the Alister Clark
Stakes last Saturday; main
credit for the victory, however,
must go to Sydney jockey
Arthur Ward.
• • • •
Mac’s Amber had always
been ridden from behind, so
Ward risked censure by urging
his mount to the front at the
half-mile. The break gained
by the move was just sufficient
to stall-off Golden Doubles,
attempting his sixth successive
win. Emphatic was inches
away third, threequarters of a
length in front of the favorite,
Lord Gavin, who was never
comfortable on the tricky
Moonee Valley circuit.
• • • •
There was a pleasant touch
about the presentation-
ceremony after the Alister
Clark Stakes. The late Mr.
Clark, after whom the race is
named, was a noted rosarian.
Bouquets of red roses from
the gardens he established were
presented to the Rockman
Bros., who own Mac’s Amber,
and to trainer Roy Shaw and
jockey Arthur Ward. Norman
Rockman received the hand-
some rose-bowl trophy; the
previous week his brother Phil
had accepted the Queen’s Cup
won for the partnership by Sir
William.
• • • •
The Tasmanian filly Bird
Note, unbeaten in two starts
in Tassie, has inherited the
speed of her sire, Meadow
Mist, but in her mainland
engagements has weakened at
the business-end of her races.
At Moonee Valley she led
clearly into the short straight,
but failed to hold off Sports
Quiz (by Blue Booklet from
Broadcast). Narrowly defeated
by Ardent Gene at his previous
start, Sports Quiz was bred by
V.C.-winner R. V. Moon, who
races him in partnership with
A. J. E. Withers, grazier at
Mulwala (N.S.W.).
• • • •
Tasmanian sprinter Nerang
Lad’s victory in the Woodlands
Handicap, final event at
Moonee Valley, meant that
horses from New Zealand and
every Slate except Western
Australia had shared the prize-
money at Victoria’s autumn
carnival. Nerang Lad had
presaged his win by an excel-
lent sixth in the Newmarket.
Although he is by 1948 V.R.C.
St. Leger winner Lungi, six
furlongs is as far as he likes.
• • • •
The V.A.T.C. committee has
decided to increase'stakemoney
for this year’s Caulfield Cup to
£12,000, believing its feature
race should rank third in
national prizemoney as well as
prestige. Interesting to see if
Doomben will raise the ante.
• • • #.
Melbourne Cup winner
Evening Peal, Australia’s best
staying-mare, last Saturday won
the Canterbury Cup the hard
way. She had topweight, 9st. —
plenty of weight for a mare —
and she had to travel wide most
"Trouble is youse blokes don't know when I'm beaten .”
of the way. It was her will to
win that landed the money. As
Mrs. Peter Lawson, wife of
the trainer, said after the race,
“She never gives up. She
always gives her best.’’ Despite
a penalty for the win Evening
Peal could take a lot of beating
in the mile-and-a-half S.T.C.
Cup at Rosehill next Saturday
week. It was evident in her
Canterbury win that Evening
Peal’s rider there, George
Podmore, thoroughly under-
stands her.
• • • •
The Cup meeting at Rose-
hill will be a record S.T.C.
prizemoney-day, with the
£lO,OOO Golden Slipper Stakes
to be run for the first time. At
the moment it looks nice money
for unbeaten Tod man. The
prize overshadows any pre-
viously given for a two-year-
old contest. The w.-f.-a.
Rawson Stakes, run over nine
furlongs the same day, will see
the return to Sydney racing of
the best performer in training
among the older horses, Red-
craze. He should continue his
winning way.
Evening Peal is now top
stakewinning mare in Aus-
tralia. The £l3ll for last
Saturday’s Cup took her
winnings to £30,834. Flight
had been at the top of the
table with £30,627, which had
beaten Tranquil Star’s £29,690.
Chicquita won £28,285.
• • • •
Four Canterbury winners of
Graduation events —Nile River,
Denvid, Greater and Arun-
brook —will not be eligible for
similar company in future, but
all seem certain to make their
mark in open class. Greater
might find it a job to win
beyond sprints, but Denvid and
Arunbrook should manage a
bit of distance. Denvid is on
the limit, 7st., in the Sydney
Cup, and he might have some
sort of show, having just won
over 11 furlongs with 8.12,
even though in modest com-
pany. He’s by Foxbridge
(imp.), and should have no
trouble in running the two
miles of the Sydney Cup, as his
dam, Rudabeh, was got by
Nizami (imp.) from Rippling
Waters by Chief Ruler (imp.).
In events using the new 9s-
- start at Canterbury
horses on the inside can save
ground in the first couple of
furlongs. Generally, though,
the start gives every horse a
chance. When, however, fields
are of maximum strength in
events using the 7|-furlongs
start there is usually a fair
amount of scrimmaging inside
the first furlongs. Horses
drawn close in at the 71-
furlongs have a decided
advantage.
* * *
Brilliant N.Z. pacer Cadu-
ccus, having the previous week
avenged his Inter-Dominion
defeat with a 15yds.-victory
over Radiant Venture in an
11-furlongs free-for-all (he went
a record 2.7$ gait), last Satur-
day chose to leave a field of
Victorian pacers in his wake.
In Saturday’s 12$-furlongs
March Free-for-All, he strolled
home 12yds. and 10yds. to the
good of Gay Knight and Lady
Rolleston (third also in his
Wayville run), this time to rate
2.75, which shattered Rib-
bands’s Melbourne show-
grounds record.
Next in line across the
continent for Caduceus is
Sydney, the Lord Mayor’s Cup,
and the toughest opposition of
the trip. A fine, bold-going
little bay, he will make things
hot for the locals, no matter
what yardage he is allotted in
the Cup.
• • • •
At Friday night’s Harold
Park trot-fixture two important
cavalry-charges took place,
when in heats of the 1957
Sapling Stakes two battalions
of trim-hoofed two-year-old
pacers made their sally; first
five home earned a run in next
week’s £2OOO Final. Quite
obviously the long-range pro-
gramme of country classics
(some subsidised), increased
prizemoney generally, and the
resultant progress in breeding-
activities has paid-off. The
youngsters showed great
potential to a horse.
• • • •
The last three races at Harold
Park trots have for the past
two weeks appeared on
simultaneous television, and
they have, according to reports,
come up very well. Winning the
third-last and main event both
nights, Sky High has become
quite a TV-star. Both of the
wins have called for the pacer’s
brilliant best; and driver
Binskin’s reinsmanship would
pass any screen-test. The two
wins qualify Sky High for the
Lord Mayor’s Cup, in which
he is capable of making things
very interesting.
• • • •
Two of the fairer sex skipped
home winners in Friday’s other
two televised events: little black
mare Balkan Princess weaved
neatly from a ruck to race away
with the Grafton Handicap;
stocky brown mare Magic Eye
sat on ihe lead and sprinted to


What do you mean
by ‘Scotch’?
•/If T \
if mmasd
BELtS
fycotdr Wl
100% SCOTCH
wsmito and
'.IK SCOTLAND
D| STSUERS"«™SCOT
9 ‘
There are many very good
Scotch Whiskies. But when
a connoisseur thinks of
‘Scotch’ he thinks of Bell’s
Old Scotch Whisky. Bell’s
are an old firm of independ-
ent lndependent
to go on producing whisky
possessed of all the skill and
knowledge of generations.
Try some yourself. Savour
the smooth, elusive flavour
of a whisky carefully blend-
ed, well-matured. If you’re
a connoisseur Bell’s Old
Scotch Whisky will delight
you.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur BeU & Sons Ltd.
Distillers, Perth, Scotland
Established 1825
victory in the Casino Handi-
cap. Both won and were driven
very nicely.
* * *
Around the Arenas
Becoming the third Aus-
tralian to run the mile in under
4min., Victorian Merv Lincoln,
in a paced attempt at Mel-
bourne University, ran 3min.
59sec. Landy’s first under-
4min. mile was his run at
Turku (Finland) in June, 1954,
when he set the world-record
time of 3min. 58sec., while the
other Australian, Jim Bailey,
set his time (3min. 58.65ec.) in
beating Landy in a race in
America in May, 1956.
Landy (twice) and Lincoln
are the only two to have run
under 4min. in Australia.
Lincoln won comfortably his
heat of the Olympic Games
1500-metres, but in the final
was handicapped by a foot-
injury. However, despite last
Saturday’s great effort by
Lincoln, the runner who will
topple Landy’s world record
seems more likely to be 19-
year-old Westralian Herb
Elliott, who ran a spanking
race (winning in 4min. o.4sec.
and beating Lincoln hand-
somely) in the Australian mile
championship at Olympic Park,
Melbourne, a week or so ago.
* * •
Ashley Cooper won the 1957
Australian hardcourt title by
defeating Neale Fraser in four
sets, 6-2, 4-6, 6-3, 6-3, at Rock-
dale (Sydney). In January
Cooper had also had a four-set
win over Fraser, to bag this
year’s Australian grasscourt
title. Cooper won the 1956
hardcourt title, too, that time
defeating Merv Rose, now
regularly winning tournaments
over in the Americas. Cooper,
paired with young Queens-
lander Rod Laver, also won the
1957 hardcourt doubles-title.
* * *
That 1500yds. open-water
swim at Sydney’s Balmoral
Beach (brightly heralded by P.
Morath in her article “The
Gentle Fifteen Hundred,” B.
13/3/’57) duly came off on
March 17. Result: Geoffrey
Berry, 1 ; Clem Morath, 2;
Basil Harris, 3.
Berry, a young-’un, won the
Fifteen Hundred by about
syds. in the final sand-sprint
up the beach ; but it was still
a triumph for Clem Morath,
who not only has been swim-
ming in the event ever since it
was first raced—way back
before Puss was a cat and
Chloe wore matadors —but
who also taught Berry to swim
as a little fellow only so high,
and on top of that trained him
for this year’s race! As well as
Clem, two other original
veterans again gave it a fly—
Lou Morath and Jack Demp-
sey. The young-’un who won
could have plenty Fifteen
Hundreds ahead of him —he’s
a well-salted 12-year-old.
* * *
“Nundah”: As well as those
“only four survivors” of the
famous Rugby Union Walla-
bies of 1908 there’s yet another
—Charles E. Parkinson, who
retired not long since from the
Queensland Department of
Water and Irrigation. He’s an
“old boy” of Brisbane
Grammar.
* * *
Darby Brown (10.8 J) kept
his Sydney Stadium date with
South African Benny Nieu-
wenhuizen (10.7|), and, after a
lively 12-round argument,
earned the ref.’s pat. Early in
the piece Darb did little but
chew leather from Benny’s
clipping straight - left; but
tradesman that he is (no one
could shape more like a fighter),
Brown worked his way into the
picture. In the middle stages
it was pretty even going, with
the heavy guns that Brown
once or twice brought into
play not worrying the Benny,
who was still pestering his man
and making clever use of the
ring. Over the last few rounds,
by when both fighters had cut
eyes (Brown got his first),
Brown, peppering with his
straight-left, boxed to what
must have been a narrow
poinls-decision ; but the boy
with the monicker could have
been unlucky.
* * *
DUNLEAVY'S GYM
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
A NYONE in Australia who
knows anything about
boxing has heard of Dun-
leavy’s gymnasium. Jack Dun-
leavy’s, in Sydney —a pleasantly
vague' address. A breath of
distances about it, a whiff of
salt-water and saltbush
sharpening the conventional
atmosphere of leather, liniment,
and dedicated athletics ; history
on the walls.
Raw country boys and no-
less-raw city boys have been
coming to Dunleavy’s for years,
and some of them became
champions of Australia. No
world-champions but, then,
Larry Foley only produced one
champion of the world, Fitz-
simmons: and Fitz had to wait
until he was nearly 35 before
he was given a crack at the
heavyweight title, although he
had won the middleweight
championship six years earlier,
when he astonished every box J
ing follower in America by
stopping the Nonpareil Jack
Dempsey in the 13th round;
and remarked, as he left the
ring, “Now what about
Corbett?”
Perhaps Dunleavy had world-
championship material in
Jack Haines, who was hailed as
a second Les Darcy. If Haines’s
health hadn’t broken-down, if
he had gone to America at his
peak and, there, had been
given the chance to fight the
right people. If . . .
Anyway, Dunleavy has had
his share of Australian
champions. He had three —
Jack Haines, Tommy Fairhall,
and Biily McAllister —in his
stable at the one time.
Not to mention champions
like Ron Richards, who,
although they weren’t trained
by Dunleavy, worked at Dun-
leavy’s when they were in town.
Overseas boxers galore—
from the U.S.A., the British
Isles, France, Italy, the Philip-
pines, Canada, South Africa,
New Zealand, even Germany
--skipped and shadow-sparred
and boxed at the celebrated
gym., punched the ball and
the heavy bag and hissed and
sweated, as an amateur named
Johnny Norton was doing
when, after a fair lapse of
years, I looked in there again
ihe other day with artist Jack
Lusby.
Years later, the name of a
street can fade from a man's
mind. Sydney is near enough,
as it probably was when
Foley’s pupils Jackson,
Slavin, Fitzsimmons, Griffo,
Jem Hall and the rest —were
demonstrating the precision of
their schooling on the best
pugs the world could offer.
Dunleavy’s, too, has changed
location —without losing its
character. It started as a
cramped one-roomer in
Darlinghurst, on the corner of
Victoria-street and Oxford-
street, moved with growing
custom to larger premises in
Flinders-street, then to Liver-
pool-street.
For a good many years now
it has been in George-street,


not far from Central Railway,
but closer to the Town Hall.
Anyway, on this losing track
of an address, who now can
name the site of Larry Foley's
White Horse Inn—except that
it, too, was in George-street?
Jack Dunleavy doesn’t know
it; and Jack has a pretty strong
sense of history, of continuity,
within his profession.
He couldn’t be sure within a
block or so, when I asked him ;
nor, off-hand, could J. E. Webb,
former Bulletin editor and
enthusiastic student of the
golden age of Australian
boxing.
But what really matters is
Foley’s place in the history of
the Ring ; and, through Foley,
Dunleavy’s.
To go back a bit on this
long trail of Ring history, in
1860 Tom Sayers, champion
of England under the old Prize
Ring rules, sft. B|in. tall and
lOst. 121 b. at his heaviest,
held the magnificently built
American John Heenan, five-
and-a-ha!f inches taller and
three-stone heavier, to a draw.
The fight went 42 rounds,
and after the fifth round
Sayers’s right arm was useless.
There have been longer
prize-fights, but this was not
one of those marathons in
which the fighters waltzed
around staring at each other
implacably, then dropped at a
tap when one or the other
wanted a spell.
It was a hard fight; it
aroused the enthusiasm of the
nation ; and good writers have
left their impressions of it.
One round lasted 13 minutes.
After the fight Sayers retired,
more-or-less by popular
demand. An editorial of the
day (supposed to have been
written by Thackeray) suggested
that the Queen take cognisance
of the affair by sending Sayers
to the treadmill (since prize-
fighting was illegal) and knight-
ing him on the prison-steps as
he came out.
The Sayers-Heenan fight
seems remote now, but at the
time the English prize-ring—
there was no other worth
mentioning—already had 133
years of tradition behind it.
James Figg, a handy man
with broadsword, cudgel or his
fists, won the first champion-
ship in the presence of such
notables as Sir Robert Walpole,
Pope, and Swift. Exhibitions
of swordsmanship preceded the
main event, and in these a
preliminary boy called John-
son, uncle of Sam, gave a good
account of himself. No rules
to speak of, but, still, a
beginning.
Jack Broughton, who set out
the rules which later became
the London Prize Ring Rules,
was the next notable champion.
Broughton was beaten by Jack
Slack, Jem Belcher’s grand-
father.
There were quite a few
champions before we come to
such comparatively familiar
names as Tom Johnson,
Humphries, Daniel Mendoza,
Gentleman John Jackson (who
convinced the aristocracy that
no man was a true Englishman
who couldn’t use his fists,
thereby building-up a steady
flow of paying pupils ; Byron
was one), Jem Belcher, Hen
Pearce, Tom Cribb (who beat
the first of the American
invaders, the ex-slave Moli-
neaux, with the hearty co-
operation of the crowd, the
JACK DUNLEAVY
weather, and the referee;
Molineaux’s great-great-
nenhew, John Henry Lewis,
light-heavyweight champion of
the world, got a very different
reception when he visited
England), John Gully (who
became rich and an M.P.). Tom
Snring,. and Bendigo (after
whom the city in Victoria was
named).
Jem Belcher became cham-
pion at the turn of the century.
The Sayers-Heenan fight was 60
years later, and the end, or
almost the end, of an era.
When Sayers retired Sam
Hurst, the Staleybridge Infant,
fought Paddock for the title,
won, and in 1861 was beaten
by Jem Mace, who had been
in Sayers’s corner the previous
year.
Mace was a welterweight
when he beat Hurst, who was
6ft. 3in. and weighed 17sl. Like
Sayers, Mace was never more
than a middleweight, and con-
sistently beat heavyweights.
He was the last of England's
great bare-knuckle fighters,
and the great pioneer and
teacher of boxing under the
new Queensberry Rules.
He was a seasoned fighter at
14, and fought as a youngster
at the Rum-Pum-Pas Club,
where the pugilists thumped
and threw each other while the
gentlemen dined.
There, one night, Mace
kno c k e d-o u t four tough
opponents before the plum-
pudding was removed from the
table.
Allowing for gargantuan
appetites, or the story being
only half-true not every-
thing on record is gospel—it
throws an interesting light on
the later, popular, conception
of the Jem Mace school as
single-minded practitioners of
the straight-left. No one could
do that sort of thing with a
straight-left alone. Dempsey,
with his full battery of hooks
and swings, probably couldn’t
have done it.
It reminds one of John L.
Sullivan’s barnstorming tour,
on which, in less than eight
months, apart from bouts with
sparring-partners, he met 59
ambitious fighters scattered
across a continent and con-
tracted to knock them out
within four rounds or pay
sums up to a thousand dollars.
Sullivan, as Nat Fleischer
points out, went into the ring
with no advance knowledge of
his opponents’ separate style
and record, tired from travel
and under the strain of this
obligation, and knocked-out all
59.
Jem Mace went to America
and established the game there
—incidentally, almost casually,
beating the American champion
(born in England), for which
he collected a purse of 10,000
dollars.
And, coming a bit closer on
this track of historv—of Ring
continuity, with Jack Dun-
lea vy’s at the end of it here —
before he went back to
England (to fight in a benefit
at 64 and die at 80-odd) Jem
Mace had taught Larry Foley
in Australia and discovered
Bob Fitzsimmons (later Foley’s
puoil) in New Zealand.
Larry’s pupils, Peter Jackson
and Frank Slavin, fought each
other in London in what has
been rated as one of the
greatest of heavyweight fights,
after both had failed to get
a with Sullivan.
Something of the feeling in
Anst r alia in that decade can
be gathered from the following,
; n a Sydney paper, when
S’dlivan left with his “Honest
Hearts and Willing Hands”
company. Commenting on the
fact that Sullivan had not made
the “barrels of monev” he
had expected, the editorial
continues:
Tf he had landed in Australia on
a knocking-out expedition, travelling
from city to city with a boxing-
show, as he did in Great Britain and
America, he would have made a
little fortune, and he would have
been the idol of the sporting com-
munity.
The fact of the matter is simply
this: the populace had heard for
years past of Sullivan, the man of
magical quickness and terrible
dexterity with the gloves. They had
longed to see him in action; for of
all the boxing people alive, none are
so enthusiastic as the populace of
Australia. Should Sullivan ever
come this way again, and come in
his true guise, with his grand
physique in perfect trim, his brawny
muscles braced for action and
gloves on his hands, with an oiler
pasted on his portmant au to “stop
any man in the country in lour
rounds,” then 1 venture to predict
that he will not find halls big
enough to accommodate his patrons.
He has been marching through
a hostile country, to a certain
extent; and here, where Jackson,
and Slavin and Goddard are looked
upon as invincible, Sullivan has
been regarded as the only man on
earth who has a chance of lowering
one or all of them.
But Sullivan, with charac-
teristic self-confidence, was
toying with the idea of prov-
ing himself the best man in the
world in another field. Edwin
Booth was getting old. Why
shouldn’t John L. Sullivan be
the new Hamlet? Not the
only one of us with that sort
of ambition . . .
“I got an awful raw deal in
Australia,” Sullivan com-
plained when interviewed in
San Francisco, on his return.
“I never saw such a mean lot
in my life. They had it in for
me because I didn’t have time
to fight Goddard, I guess.”
True, when Sullivan issued
his challenge which led to the
fight with Corbett (beaten in
his turn by Foley’s pupil Fitz-
simmons), and to the title
changing hands, he gave pre-
cedence “to Frank P. Slavin,
of Australia, as he and his
backers have done the greatest
amount of blowing.”
But he demanded a bet of
IC,OOO dollars, and while Slavin
and his friend Mitchell were
trying to raise the money, the
theatrical manager Billy Brady
came forward with it and
nailed the match for his boy,
Corbett.
So Foley’s other pupil,
“Paddy” Slavin, missed the
match and, almost certainly,
the world-championship. By
the terms of the challenge—
“l will not fight a negro. I
never have and never shall”—
yet another, and probably the
greatest, of the Sydney-taught
fighters, Peter Jackson, was
excluded . . .
(This story of the famous
gym., and of some of the
splendid fighters of Dunleavy's
day, will be continued next
week)


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
The Governor and Lady Brooks
attended St. John’s Church, Toorak, for
the wedding of Elizabeth Anne Spraggett
and Dr. Clive Keith Coogan. The bride,
who is the only daughter of Colonel
Richard Spraggett, private-secretary to
the Governor, and Mrs. Spraggett, wore
a gown of white French-lace, the bodice
cut with a deep rounded neckline, the
skirt finishing in a long train. Her full-
length tulle veil was caught with a circlet
of flowers, and she carried a small sheaf
of white roses.
Her attendants (Mrs. Stuart Calder,
Mrs. Sydney Thornton, Ruth Austin and
Mary Lou Kent Hughes) wore full-
length gowns of white faille patterned in
turquoise-blue flowers ; at the back of the
sleeveless bodices were bows of turquoise-
blue ribbon with sash-ends.
The bridegroom, who is the only son
of Mr. and Mrs. Rupert Coogan, of
Sydney, had Peter Nicholson, of Sydney,
as best man and Dr. Leigh Mitchell as
groomsman.
The reception was held at The Cottage,
Government House. The bride’s parents,
with the Governor and Lady Brooks,
received the guests. Lady Brooks wore a
full-skirted white faille coat, which had a
navy collar and lapels, with a small
matching hat. Mrs. Spraggett’s frock
was of mist-blue pure-silk-taffeta, her
small cap of white satin. Mrs. Coogan
added to her navy silk-shantung frock a
wide-brimmed pastel-pink straw hat.
After being received, guests moved into
a marquee on the lawn, where dinner
was served. White, pink and soft-blue
hydrangeas and pink gladioli formed the
decorative scheme here. The tall bridal-
cake, made by the chef at Government
House, stood on a flower-decorated
table. In a delightfully witty speech Sir
Dallas Brooks proposed the toast of
bride and ’groom. Among the guests
were Minister for Labor Harold Holt and
Mrs. Holt, Dr. and Mrs. Paddy Moran,
Lady Snow, Sir Robert and Lady Knox,
Sir Wilfred and Lady Kent Hughes, Mrs.
S. Baillieu Myer, Lady McConnan, Sir
Roy and Lady Dowling and their
daughter Sue, Dr. and Mrs. W. Littlejohn,
Mr. and Mrs. John Buckland, Sir John
and Lady Jungwirth, Mr. and Mrs. John
Carrodus and Mrs. Norman Sheppard.
☆ * ☆
The Governor and Lady Brooks went
on from the Coogan-Spraggett wedding
to the Comedy Theatre for the premiere
of “Janus,” starring Jessie Matthews.
Lady Brooks had changed into a pastel-
blue satin frock and theatre-coat. Also
in the audience were Sir Frank and Lady
Tait, Daphne Kaufman (wearing a
watermelon-pink satin theatre-coat), Mrs.
S. Aarons (royal-blue chiffons), Mrs. W.
McDermott (her white silks patterned in
autumn flowers), Mrs. James McGaurin
(whose full-skirted deep-mauve faille
frock was scattered with rhinestones),
Mrs. Keith Hattam (her cream guipure-
lace sheath-frock worn under a silver-
grey taffeta coat), Mrs. Dorothy Gitsham
(Christian Dior jewellery with her black
frock), and Mrs. A. G. Silk (her choice
a short white satin frock).
Pamela, only daughter of Mrs. W. M.
Greenall, of Caulfield, and the late Prof.
F. Greenall, way educated at the M.L.C,
and made her first stage-appearance in
the National Theatre Drama Festival,
where she played Charmian and under-
studied the role of Cleopatra in “Caesar
and Cleopatra.” Next she was Titania in
“Midsummer Night’s Dream” Three
years ago Pamela joined the Union
Theatre Repertory Company, with which
she has toured playing Louka in Shaw’s
“Arms and the Man."
Colonel E. J. Bowe, Matron-in-Chief of
the Royal Australian Nursing Corps, has
been appointed Honorary Nursing-Sister
to the Queen —her Majesty is, of course,
Colonel-in-Chief of the R.A.A.N.C.
A trainee of Royal Melbourne Hospital,
Colonel Bowe, who was a member of
the A.A.N.S. from 1939 to 1948, served
in the Middle East, the Islands and
Borneo. After the war she worked in
Vienna for two years with the Inter-
national Refugee Organisation. After a
year as matron of the Austin Hospital
Colonel Bowe joined the R.A.A.N.C.,
taking over the position of Matron-in-
Chief in 1952.
☆ ☆ *
Having opened the Red Cross Fair in
the Town Hall, Lady Brooks made a
round of the stalls, her purchases includ-
ing caat-hangers, lavender-bags, home-
made cakes, fruit, vegetables and hand-
knitted garments for her two grand-
children, Christopher and Jennifer Byrne.
Chairman of the Victorian division of
Red Cross Colonel A. Spowers and vice-
chairman Mrs. Eccles McKay welcomed
her Excellency, who is president of the
division.
Among the many well-stocked stalls
was one of tropical fruits and flowers
(named the Sunshine Special), which had
come by plane from Queensland Red
Cross. On the Greek stall were the
cakes, biscuits and pastries which arc a
speciality of Greece, and on the
Ukrainian stall were finely embroidered
mats, guest-towels and book-marks. The
Red Cross Youth Groups organised the
lavender-stall, at which pretty Diana
Laurens, Carolyn Fairley and Diana
Mackay, wearing old-world frocks and
with posies in their hair, did a brisk
trade.
CANBERRA
For the first time a formal evening
reception was given at Parliament House
to mark the ceremonial opening of the
second session of the Twenty-second
Parliament by the Governor-General, Sir
William Slim. King’s Hall was alive
with gaiety and color; arrangements of
autumn-toned flowers were banked high
along the walls, and, adding to the gala
atmosphere, a band from the Royal
Military College, resplendent in white
gold-trimmed uniforms, played soft back-
ground music. Hosts were the Prime
Minister and Dame Pattie Menzies, the
President of the Senate and Mrs. A. M.
McMullin, and the Speaker of the House
of Representatives and Mrs. J. McLeay.
Dame Pattie chose a full-length gown in
vivid emerald-green faille. Their Excel-
lencies the Governor-General and Lady
Slim were present; Lady Slim wore a
full-length bouffant model gown in
cherry-red duchesse satin.
Among the many diplomats present
were the High Commissioner for the U.K.,
Lord Carrington, and Lady Carrington,
she wearing a striking gown in deep-
turqqoise silk, the skirt, straight and slim,
featuring a matching rose at the waist;
the High Commissioner for N.Z., Mr.
G. E. L. Alderton, and Mrs. Alderton ;
the West German Foreign Minister, Dr.
H. von Brentano; the Minister for
Brazil, Senhor L. A. Borges da Fonseca,
and his wife, her gown a Jermaine model
in black silk. Also noted were Lady
Wunderly, wearing a graceful gown in
pale-grey satin ; Mrs. Harold Holt in a
vivid pink taffeta frock featuring tiny
bows from neckline to hem ; and Mrs.
John Howse wearing a slim-skirted gown
in electric-blue. Among the Service chiefs
present were Vice-Admiral Sir Roy
Dowling, and the Commandant R.M.C.,
Major-General lan Campbell.
The 900 guests were entertained at
buffet-supper in the members’ dining-
room.


SYDNEY
Tt was a newsy week. The spotlight
was busy touching well-known people
of various kinds. Jack Davey fell off his
motor-scooter; Mrs. C. T. Lorenz
resigned, for health reasons, from the
National Opera Company, which will
probably be merged with the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust; Mr. Menzies said “I deny
a crisis, I deny a slump”—a rythmical
phrase of the type that goes down in
history.
☆ ft ft
Stones falling from the skies in Pum-
phrey (W.A.) provided one of the most
fascinating topics.of the week. Scientist
Dr. Stewart Pennycuick, when consulted,
said that everyone has his own radio-
wave which is his and his alone. Perhaps
the gods did not care for the programmes
that the aborigine Cyril Penny was put-
ting on, and pelted stones as a protest.
In any case, the occurrence provides a
guide on “What to do on odd occasions,”
so:
Suppose, instead of hail and snow
Jt started raining stones and brick,
You’d make poor Cyril Penny go
And call in Doctor Pennycuick.
f ft a ☆
Among the personalities who came to
notice during the week was 15-year-old
girl rider Diane Bennit, who has come
from Perth with her horse, Ocean Foam,
to compete in the Easter Show.
Ocean Foam was champion hunter at the
Perth Royal in 1955 and 1956, and is
always ridden by Diane, who also won
13 first-prizes at the last Royal Show in
Perth. She is the great-great-niece of
Rachel Henning, whose letters were
published in The Bulletin in serial-
form and then also published in book-
form by The Bulletin, with Norman
Lindsay’s illustrations.
ft ft ft
Fashion-parades are rampant at the
moment, as people naturally want to
know how they ought to look for winter,
’57, even if they have to be content with
the old sports-skirt and twin-set, the suit
and the top-coat which were bought for
their good-wearing qualities two years
ago.
* ft ft
The wool-fashions shown at the
Aranda Room of Anthony Hordern's
certainly demonstrate that Australian
designers can wield a nimble thimble.
How one longed to be able to wear the
bulky cardigans (one stretching right
down to the knees —truly) with the
narrow, tapered, ankle-length pants which
the willow-slim models showed as being
“suitable for TV-watching”!
* * ft
Also this week came a showing of
fabulous furs at the Hotel Australia.
Bruno and Renee Stern brought them up
from Melbourne for us to see. Particul-
arly interesting was the use of color, a
violet suede jacket with violet fox-collar
took the eye as being just the thing to
wear to a Symphony Concert. In fact,
someone did wear it to the concert on
Wednesday.
ft ft ft
This concert, by the way, the opening
one of the 1957 series, was rather like
Old School Week ; most of the familiar
faces to be seen in their fixed places, and
the familiar voices to be heard in the
coiridors. The non-smokers assemble in
the vestibule at interval and appear there-
by to be a cut above the nicotine-addicts.
Mrs. Julius Katchen was the most
glamorous-looking person present, her
red-gold hair successfully harmonising
with a Chinese-red silk coat over a white
guipure-lace dress.
ft ft ft
The Harbor Bridge had its 25th anni-
versary during the week, and those who
would admit remembering anything about
its opening (though the tiniest of tots at
the time) had some amusing anecdotes
to recall. Among the best was that of the
suave radio-announcer, pausing in his
description to say, in shocked tones: “Oh
dear, oh dear, a most unfortunate
contretemps has occurred” ; the contre-
temps, of course, being Captain de
Groot’s cutting of the ribbon.
it. ft ft
Apropos of fashion, Sydney designer
Beril Jents has been asked to represent
Australia with three outfits for a big
charity-show at the Waldorf Astoria in
New York (“With patrons and
patronesses from the highest society,” so
the letter said). As Norman Hartnell will
represent England, Givenchy France,
Rodeiiguiz Spam and so on, Miss Jents
seems to have hit “the highest society,”
too.
There may be a little heart-scalding
about this, as it was announced over
the weekend that Germaine Roc her was
to be the Australian representative. Let
us hope it will not cause any unfortunate
contretemps!
■9 j? V
The literary luncheons which are held
on the third Thursday of each month
at the Royal Empire Society, in co-
operation with the Committee of the
Chair of Australian Literature Fund, are
proving most successful. Speaker last
week was Mr. Donald McLean, his
subject the poetry of Lex Banning. A
feature of the lecture was the reading
of the poetrV by Mrs. McLean, who has
an unaffected and attractive voice.
☆ ft; ft
* A decorative and talented addition to
Sydney life is Pamela Trethowan, wife of
Professor W. H. Trethowan, Professor of
Psychiatry at the University. A former
professional actress in England, she is
producing the S.U.D.S. original musical-
revue “Lower Education,” which opens
at the Union Hall on Thursday, March
28 (tomorrow, in fact), for a two-weeks
season. “Lower Education” includes
numbers such as “Big Brothers of the
Press” (“Please, teacher, tell us all about
love”), which sounds amusing, to say the
least.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Gwen Morton Spencer is this
year’s president of the Society of Women
Writers. The first meeting of the 1957
session is tomorrow (March 28), when
the speaker will be Mr. John McGhee,
winner of the “Herald” novel-prize. It
should be an interesting luncheon, as
Mr. McGhee is not only talented but
handsome and likeable.
ft ☆ ftr
The Annual Ball of the Loreto
Kirribilli Ex-students’ Union celebrated
the golden-jubilee year of the school—
-50 years at Kirribilli. Needless to say
there was a very good attendance at the
Trocadero for the event, for Loreto,
Kirribilli, though a comparatively small
school, has a particularly large following
of loyal and devoted daughters. There
were 28 debutantes this year, presented
by Mrs. P. Barrett, of Brewarrina, her-
self an ex-student and mother of one of
the debs. Air-Vice-Marshal A. L. Walters
and Mrs. Walters were the guests-of-
honor.
V V V
Housing has vied with “Who'll be the
next Governor?” as chief topic of con-
versation, so a friend’s letter from
America is of timely interest. She says:
“Houses, such as we were looking at in
Australia [i.e., a £5OOO house], and which
sell for round 8000 to JO,OOO dollars, are
put up en masse by firms for their
employees, who are given the oppor-
tunity to buy them at 350 dollars down
and the rest as rent. But the majority of
people won't buy anything under 18,000
to 20,000, and it must be solid, pure
plaster, and mahogany and birch wood,
with oak floors and such things.” This is
in lowa, in fairly small towns. The
position may be different in big cities.
☆ ft ft
The Black and White Ball Committee
never grow-s smaller. This year there are
102 members so far, and still more to
come. Mrs. M. Dekyvere is again presi-
dent, but accepted the office on condi-
tion that she had what she called “a very
unconventional thing,” two deputy-presi-
dents. They are Mrs. Dick Allen and
Mrs. Noel Vincent.
☆ ft ft
Meg Degotardi is another of the week’s
personalities. Her news is that she will
marry David Podger on May 18. Meg
is one of the Degotardis of St. Ives, a
family which fairly glitters with academic
stars, her sisters Betty and Joan both
being doctors, as well as three of her
brothers. Her youngest brother is an
engineer, and she herself is a soliticor,
and has established her own firm in the
city. In the Arts course which she is
doing at night Meg won the prize for
English I, while her fiance won the prize
for English 11. This year they have taken
different subjects to avoid competition
(wise couple!). David is the son of Mr.
and Mrs. John Podger, formerly of East-
wood, and now of Victoria.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £ 1 /4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £B/18/6 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.—Is Divorce.
TO GEORGE HARRY FINNEMORE
late of Cooma.—TAKE NOTICE that
RITA MAVIS FINNEMORE has filed a
Petition in Divorce No. 3578 of 1956
on the ground that you have during
three years and upwards been an
habitual drunkard and habitually left
her without means of support If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 22nd May 1957 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. McCAW JOHNSON & Com-
pany, Solicitors, of 75 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wanti
To buy copies of the following:
“Banjo” Paterson’s Old Bush
Ballads (bookstall-format); A Guide
to the Snakes of Uganda (1938), by
C. R. S. Pitman; South Australians
and Their Environment (Adelaide,
1921) and What of Our Aborigines ?
(Adelaide, 1944), by A. G. Price;
Reise nach Neu Wallis (Berlin,
1790), by Arthur Phillip; “Cane-
growers’ Quarterly Bulletin” (vols.
1-8; vol. 9, part 4; put-out by the
Queensland Bureau of Sugar Experi-
ment Stations). —6485.
Some old-fashioned rose-cuttings,
particularly La France, Gloire de
Dijon and Fortune’s Yellow. —6487.
To sell six volumes (as new) of
Winston Churchill’s The Second
World War. —64B6.
To buy copy of Handy Hints for
the Farm. —64BB.
Information Sought
Some information on the' poet
Cecil Day Lewis?
Cecil Day Lewis was born in
Ireland in 1904 and educated at
Sherborne School and Wadham
College, Oxford. With W. H.
Auden and Stephen Spender he
formed what has been described as
“the political-cum-poetical trium-
virate of the ’thirties.” With Auden
he edited Oxford Poetry in 1927.
On leaving Oxford he became a
schoolmaster in turn at Oxford,
Helensburgh and Cheltenham. Dur-
ing the war he was with the
Ministry of Information; since, he
has been writing, lecturing and
broadcasting. Day Lewis a large
output—the best of his poetry con-
tained in Poems, 1929-1936 (1948),
Overtures to Death (1938), The
Georgies of Virgil (1940), Word
Over All (1943) and Poems, 1943-
1947 (1948). Outside his verse he
has written novels — The Friendly
Tree (1936), Starting Point (1937)
and, his best-known, Child of Mis-
fortune (1939); and he has an out-
put of detective-fiction (under a
pseudonym) and stories for children,
the most recent example being The
Otterburn Incident (1948). Hi?
criticism includes A Hope for Poetry
(1934), Poetry for You (1945) and
Poetic Image, the published form of
his Clark Lectures at Cambridge in
1946. Stephen Spender has conrv-
mented that he is a poet “who is
least sure of himself when he writes
for immediate feelings,” which
Kenneth Allott answers with: “As
a personal lyric poet, it is true, he
sometimes fumbles and provides
blurred or trite effects. His
abilities as a translator or as a
narrative poet —a good specimen is
‘The Naraba,’ from Overtures to
Death —can rarely be questioned in
this way In brief it may be said
that Day Lewis’s failures are verbal,
his successes rhythmical.”
* * * *
What is the explanation of the
three balls in front of a
pawnbroker’s ?
The Encyclopedia Britannica
says: “In England the pawnbroker,
like so many distinguished person-
ages, ‘came with the Conqueror.’
From that time, indeed, to the
famous legislation of Edward 1,
the Jew moneylender was the only
pawnbroker. Yet, despite the valu-
able services which the class rend-
ered, not infrequently to the Crown
itself, the usurer was treated with
studied cruelty—Sir Walter Scott’s
Isaac of York was no mere creation
of fiction. The barbarities, by
diminishing the number of Jews in
the country, had . long before
Edward’s decree of banishment
begun to make it worth the while oi
the Lombard merchants to settle in
England. It is now as well
established as anything of the kind
can be that three golden balls which
for so long have been the trade-
sign of the pawnbroker were the
symbol which the Lombard mer-
chants hung up in front of their
houses, and not, as has been sug-
gested, the arms of the Medici
family. It has, indeed, been con-
jectured that the golden balls were
originally three flat, yellow effigies
of byzants, or gold coins, laid
heraldically upon a sable field, but
that they were presently converted
into balls, the better to attract
attention.”
* * * •
(1) What were last season's figures
for the production of the principle
vegetable-crops for human consump-
tion in N.S.W. ? (2) How does the
total acreage taken to grow these
crops compare with that of previous
seasons ?
(1) For 1955-56 the figures, as
listed by the Government Statistician
under “New South Wales, Statistics
of Agriculture,” were: Potatoes
(tons) 44,162; carrots (tons), 6228;
pumpkins (tons), 14,782; tomatoes
(half-cases), 1,495,503; beans
’.bushels), 821,685 ; peas (bushels),
1,161,670; cabbages (doz.), 404,397;
cauliflowers (doz.), 346,182; lettuce
(cases), 298,358. (2) Figures for the
last eight seasons were as follows:
1948-49, 78,256; 1949-50, 77,634;
1950-51, 69,135; 1951-52, 74.607;
1952-53, 71,848; 1953-54, 60,439;
1954-55, 58,780; 1955-56, 66,918.
Information Supplied
From L. L. Robinson (Bundaberg,
Q.) on the “Brief Answer” to
H.J.J. (B. 13/3/’57) re the wreck at
Lady Elliott Island:
About 1862-64 Capt. J. W.
Robinson, of Hobart, worked the
guano-deposit on Lady Elliott
Island, loading the barque Isabelle
end shipping the guano to Hobart.
He was probably the first to do so,
and while there erected on the island
the first signal-light (on a 75ft. spar)
for his own use. This was after-
wards taken-over by the Island
Government, and a proper light-
house was erected not long after he
left there. The brig Harp was
wrecked at Bird Island, or near Lady
Elliott Island, about 1861. Later the
brig Wolverine was wrecked there.
The barque Golden City (Capt. Bell)
was wrecked at Lady Elliott Island
about 1862.
Brief Answers
E.C.D.: Papier mach6 is most
unsuitable for your purpose: it is
only paper and glue boiled to a
pulp, with a little plaster-of-Paris
added, and would crack quickly
under damp and wear. The
“unsatisfactory” cement was prob-
ably wrongly applied; it is the only
real method of repair. Make-up a
mixture of 3 parts clean sharp sand
and 1 cement, rather wet; have the
cracks scraped out cleanly in an
open V-shape; spray with water, to
stop absorption from the repair-
mixture; liil-in quickly and
smoothly. Keep damp for a day or
two by watering frequently with a
fine-hose spray ; rapid drying is fatal.
A little lime added to the mixture
strengthens it... .E.K.C.: To both
questions, no. The human skin
is a highly complex substance, and
any attempt to coerce it might make
the condition worse than before.
Flexibility or slight stretching might
be achieved by massage with simple
vegetable-oils or cold-creams. A
little contraction can be obtained
by the use of safe astringents (they
are well-known jn today’s cosmetics,
and can be bought at any chemist’s
shop). If either condition is
abnormal and not due to advanced
age, a doctor should be asked to
advise... .M.K.: (1) Can obtain no
information on the suppliers of this
oil in Australia, where its use is
very rare. Italian fruit-shops in
your district may be able to help.
You could make a useful extract by
crushing the bulbs in water, boiling
until they are soft, then straining the
juice into hot sterilised jars or
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(14/3/’57)
Heavy rains are indicated on the north and south
coasts of Queensland during April, and reasonably good
rains should occur elsewhere, though the central coast and
highlands, Maranoa and southern-border areas are likely to
have only poor rainfall. Good rains are likely in the south-
west during May; moderate elsewhere.
Good general rains should occur in N.S.W. during
April, with fairly heavy rain and some flooding on the coast.
General rains are also likely during May, with the possibility
of heavy falls and severe flooding on the north coast.
In Victoria April is likely to be a month of poor
rainfall, apart from moderate rain in the north-east, east-
central and west coast. General rains should occur through-
out the State during May.
South Australia, too, could have a month of poor
rainfall during April, with relief-rains during May; but
considerable variation is possible, as one cycle indicates
moderate rain in the agricultural areas during April and
no worth-while rains until July.
Western Australia is also likely to have an April of
poor rainfall, but heavy general rains are likely during May.
LENNOX WALKER.


Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
FIRST NEW FILLING SYSTEM IN A DECADE!
5 Rl 51
FSIiLS Oi AMAZING
N
W
oto
r ■
Ilk
#/
%\
UZ *
4
lO|
V
To fill—
just a twist of
the wrist on the
top of the barrel
fills the new
Gnoto "K" A
Absolutely
no rubber or
other perishable
material used
in the filling
system
f Everything
guaranteed
completely
noncorrodible
in new filling.
V system .
f Transparent \
' section in barrel \
ensures you are j
never caught /
with empty or J
failing pen /
' Amazing >
new nib
flexibility that
puts character
back into
handwriting .
other pen sold
in Australio, but
has slender .
\ lines /
NO OTHER PEN AT ANY PRICE can offer you all the advantages of the
amazing new Onoto “K.” The iridium-tipped 14-carat gold nib gives effort-
less writing with a flexibility that adjusts itself to any pressure. The
new Onoto “K” is undoubtedly the most advanced pen available in
Australia today. Now at leading stores in black, grey, blue and maroon.
OHOTO “K" PENS FROM 57/6 TO 130/-. PEN & PENCIL SETS TO 198/6. OTHER ONOTO PENS FROM 28/1
Thomas Do La Rat & Co. Ltd., London. Distributors: Norman Baker 8 Longhurst Pty. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne.
K2.es
bottles, sealing with white wax, and
storing in a cool, dry place. Con-
tainers should be small to prevent
the loss of a large quantity on
opening and through delay in using.
(2) Tyrrell’s Bookshop, 202 George-
street, Sydney; I. Berkelouw, 38
King-street, Sydney J.R.D.:
Arterial degeneration is really * a
normal progressive condition due
mostly to advancing age, and no real
cure has yet been discovered; some
people develop it later than others.
The only amelioration is to live
quietly on a simple, rather spare
diet with little alcohol, and to avoid
excitement. The usual plain meals
served in most Australian homes
constitute a suitable diet, with as
much fresh fruit as possible at any
time during the day. A pinch ot
Glauber’s salt in the early-morning
cup of weak tea is- often recom-
mended ; it is safe and harmless.
For the chest pains, a doctor should
be consulted... .G.M.: The 3 Jd.
Universal Postal Union stamp is
worth 5d M.W.: Contact the
Australian Veterinary Association,
53 Martin-place, Sydney... .G.H.:
Henry Lawson: A Chronological
Checklist of His Contributions to
The Bulletin, 1887-1924, pre-
pared and published by Walter
Stone, 64 Young-street, Grcmorne
(N.5.W.).... A.F.: William Dargie
first won the Archibald Prize in
1941, with his portrait “Sir James
Elder, K.8.E.”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
alt MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
J.H.G.: Quite the most boring
girl of her type that we’ve encoun-
tered L.F.D.: “The Librarian”
will have to turn over a new leaf.
. ...S.Y.: Science-fiction yarn
might interest a Mars paper
G.S.S.: “Ode to a Bullfrog”
croaked.... A.W.T.: There’s music
in you; keep trying P.L.J.:
Slash “The Barber” T.Q.:
Sugary D.0.K.: “Fresh” stale.
....WJE.T.: “Never Never” never.
....H.L.D.: That sixpence each-
way should at least be raised to a
bob each-way to comply with cost-
of-living standards... .P.L.R.S.: “I
don’t think you’ll have read a story
like this before.” We’re quite sure
we don’t ever want to read a story
like that again... .V.R.T.: Senti-
mental poppycock R.V.: Close.
F.O.P.: You say “flawless”;
we say clueless... .D.W.E.: “The
Ferryboat” sank... .H.McM.: Send
it to Mary-Anne... .L.M.: “Ode
to Pickled Gherkins” indigestible.
P.T.: Too bloodthirsty....
W.1.A.: Liked Ahdy, but Ellen
inconspicuous... .K.T.: .“The Love-
sick Bison”* gingerly escorted Off the
premises J.A.: It’s been done
before, and better.... M.N.:
Rejected lovers fighting it out in the
w.p.b P.S.P.: Had to stop-up
our ears with cottonwool to escape
“twenty-five seven-inch turret-guns
crashing and pounding”....
B.O’M: Barmaids are overworked.
J.S.-R.: Can thtand only about
thith much of “Thniffles”:
Jonny hath/, a co’dd in d’ nothe
Becord he di’nt wear warm clothe.
Ilith nothe is wunny,
Itsth wed and . funny,
And poor Jonny sthniffles.
Thniffle, thniffle, thniffle.
J.N.: “Her fingers were
delicately shaped, not unlike pea-
pods.” With or without peas?....
M.M.: Well, it has a certain
boisterous charm —but very little
else R.F.G.: All moonlight,
aspidistras, cliches T.L.K.: Stop
foisting grudges on to us F.A.:
Scant C.J.A.: The start of
“Year of Grace, 1957” will be quite
enough, thank you:—
It is now still the start of Nineteen
Fifty Seven
And everybody’s that much nearer
Heaven.
....“Whiskers”: You must have'
enjoyed “Lunching Out”:
Blue and mouldy is the bread,
The butter can hardly stand,
A game ant struggles among the dead
Of his comrades in the jam.
Jock, the old black sheep-dog,
Oppressed by age, heat, and flies.
Starts out from the shadow of his log.
And rolling in a dead sheep lies.
Under the shade of an old river-gum.
A youth, fodder poised ready to con-
sume,
And with a dead stick Jack’s advances
shun,
That’s how a jackeroo spends his noon.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BUB AND EGYPT
TT was not so long ago that
A British and Israel troops were
killing each other while
Americans like Ben Hecht were
proclaiming “a song in their
heart” every time a British
soldier was killed in Palestine.
By one of those peculiar
historical reversals, it has lately
fallen to the U.S. to force
Israel to withdraw from the
Gaza Strip, while the British
papers have been full of sym-
pathy and admiration for
Israel’s holding-out against
United Nations and Uncle Sam
for certain conditions before
any such withdrawal would be
contemplated.
And where, not so long ago,
the responsibility for Palestine
—or Israel —was one of John
Bull’s heavy and thankless
tasks, it would seem now, as
the following typical press-
comment indicates, that the
load is falling squarely onto
Uncle Sam:
London “Time and Tide” :
“The American Government,
Mr. Eisenhower, Mr. Dulles
and Mr. Cabot Lodge have
brought it [lsrael’s withdrawal]
off, in a manner which else-
where than in power-politics
would be regarded as dis-
ingenuous—to put it mildly.
They have therefore assumed
towards Israel (as they did
towards Britain and France
when pressure was exerted to
bring about the end of the
Suez operation) a heavy
responsibility, some of which —
but only some of which—they
may be able to off-load on to
the United Nations.
“The fact is that Israel has
now made a major act of faith.
The internal strain thus pro-
voked was obvious. It is
heartening to think of Mr. Ben-
Gurion, with indefatigable
courage, subduing the anger of
his opponents in the Knesset;
but any praise of the Govern-
ment and people of Israel must
be balanced by a realistic
appreciation not only of the
moral and spiritual cost to
Israel of this decision, but of
the burden of responsibility
which falls inevitably on those
who enforced it or tacitly
supported its enforcement.
“The greater share of this
responsibility lies upon the
shoulders of Mr. Eisenhower
and his * Government.”
* * *
“New York Times” : “Tech-
nically, Israel’s withdrawal is to
be “unconditional,” which
,
complies with the General
Assembly resolutions and wil l
President Eisenhowers tmist-
cnee that no nation invading
?"°! h<:r lhe fac <; °f United
Nat >° ns disapproval should set
conditions for its withdrawal,
est ' r 'testroy the foundations
of .*c United Nations
But.:as its :statement before
1e General . .
emphasises, Israel s undertaking
lo withdraw is predicated on
certain assumptions which
make ft an act or taith m the
assurances given by Mr.
H ammarskjoeid and by the
United State 4 and some other
p owers
* * *
Lon don “Daily Telegraph” :
« We j- the « D x.”] do not know
or certa j n what assurances the
Israelis have received that
Egyptian forces will not
eventually reoccupy the areas
in dispute. AH that can be
said with certainty is that if
such an eventuality materialised
the United States would forfeit
every vestige of goodwill and
trust that they at present enjoy
in the Western world. For
whatever the formal or legal
position may bp, Western public
opinion assumes without any
question that the United States
are morally committed to pre-
vent Egypt once again resum-
ing her harrying tactics in these
two crucial areas.”
* * #
London “Daily Mail” : “For
years Israel has suffered an
Egyptian blockade of her ships
through the Gulf of Akaba and
attacks upon her people from
the Gaza Strip. In recent fight-
ing she gained control of both.
“Nevertheless, Israel with-
draws on the understanding
Vicky in London “New States[?]”
THE GAZA STRIP
that U.N. forces'will occupy
the places she vacates, that
Gaza will not be turned over
to Egypt unconditionally and
that she will have guarantees
at the peace-settlement. It
would be inconceivable if,
after all that has passed, Egypt
should in future be allowed
to impose such handicaps on
Israel as she has done hitherto.
If there is a world-justice this
would surely prevent it.”
* * *
London “Economist”:
“Most of those countries
[around Israel} are Israel’s
bitter enemies ; and the United
States is in course of embark-
ing on a concerted diplomatic
action in the Middle East
designed to win their friendship
in order to steer them clear of
the influence of Soviet Russia.
This is the overriding genera!
aim of American policy ; and
though the pursuit of it in the
Arab world takes forms that
Britain cannot be expected to
like, in the world at large we
have reason to be thankful that
it is being resolutely pursued.
“Mr. Dulles, the chief
executant of that policy, has
made it clear that in his eyes
such local questions as the
security of Israel’s frontiers,
navigation in the Gulf of
Akaba, and even the control of
the Suez Canal, are of minor
importance in the world-
struggle against Communist
power.
“It is, in fact, a standard and
recurring problem of American
policy: how to persuade the
Governments of smaller
countries to accept that their
national concerns are
secondary.”
* * *
London “Observer":
“President Eisenhower’s efforts
—made at some risk to his
domestic popularity —to secure
Israel’s compliance with United
Nations resolutions on with-
drawal were essential if in the
Arab countries the voices of
sense and reason, rather than
those of Russia and extremism,
were to become effective on the
Suez Canal problem and other
questions. And, even now, the
concessions with which Israel
has been able to hedge her
undertaking to withdraw have
made the American task in this
respect much harder.”
•* * *
‘‘Manchester Guardian " :
“What, in all this, is America’s
best hope? Once Israel with-
draws, the morality-play in
which Israel was cast as the dis-
turber of the peace will be
over, and the United States will
have to get down to the
diplomatic job of gathering
support for a settlement and
countering Arab opposition to
it. One way is to keep the
Assembly session going and
persuade—or press—the Asian
countries to support something
like the Canadian proposals for
a lasting settlement.
“The other is to go on pre-
tending that the February 2


"hvm
V3M
100 M
WOh
<©
y
tff*
«*
i
WHEN IT'S OFfTL
Dalgetys
they're so dependable!
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
resolution is adequate, deploy
the U.N.E.F. along the border
and on the Gulf, and then try
to keep this expedient in being
by diplomatic pressure outside
the United Nations.
“Either way there is one step
which the United States can-
not avoid—the assertion of her
own power and influence in the
Middle East to secure fair deal-
ing and keep the peace.”
* * *
"Yorkshire Post”: “It
remains to be seen how far
Egypt will permit a genuinely
free flow of traffic through the
canal. Will she seek to dis-
criminate against British,
French and Israeli shipping?
The present Egyptian reply is
that the canal will be open to
all ships paying the canal-tolls.
But this at once raises the vital
question: To whom should
these dues be paid? Will Cairo
seek to insist on their being
paid to the nationalised com-
pany? That would create
another deadlock.”
Britain's Atomic
Power
Following closely on the
visit to the U.K. of repre-
sentatives of Euratom —the
proposed European organisa-
tion for the pooling of atomic
knowledge and resources —the
announcement of Britain’s
revised atomic - power pro-
gramme emphasised the con-
siderations affecting the U.K.’s
attitude towards joining the
European body.
The new programme for
Britain means, as London
“Daily Telegraph” puts it, that
“instead of the 12 stations
which, two years ago, were
planned to be built by 1965
there are now to be 20.
Though the capital cost will
rise from about £3OO million
to more than £9OO million,
capacity will be treble what
was hoped for in 1955. Indeed,
so rapidly is technology still
advancing, so encouraging the
experience of operating Calder
Hali, that even this estimate
may be conservative.”
By 1956, the “Daily Tele-
graph” adds, “demand for
electric power, it is estimated,
will have risen to the equiva-
lent of 65-million tons of coal.
The new atomic programme
will produce by then the
equivalent of 18-million tons
—only about one-quarter, that
is to say, of the total demand
for electricity.
“If from 1965 to 1975 the
next programme can provide
three times as much again it
will do no more than satisfy
the estimated increase in
demand for electricity in that
decade. The whole of the rest
of the demand for power dur-
ing the next 20 years—itself
much the larger part and itself
increasing—will still have to
be met from coal and oil.
“Besides putting the atomic
programme into its right pers-
pective, this calculation demon-
strates how far the programme
is from being a substitute for
increased production of coal.”
Or, as London “Economist”
notes, “by 1965, the six-million
kilowatts of base-load atomic
power-stations will represent
about 15 per cent, of the
country’s total generating-
capacity ; because they are
working on ‘base-load,’ close
on 24 hours a day, they will
probably be supplying about
a quarter of the country’s
electricity. If building then
continues at the same rate, by
1970 atomic power should be
supplying 40 per cent, of the
country’s electricity capacity.”
Of other significant aspects
of the new British plan, “Man-
chester Guardian” comments
that “by now the merits of the
Calder Hall type of power-
station are tested, if not
proved. And they are so great
that it is possible to base the
new plant entirely on this kind
of power-station— not to install
a variety of types as the old
plan assumed necessary.
“This will mean that less
new design-work and less
research must be carried out
before construction can be
started. In 10 years the build-
ing of a nuclear power-station
will be no more novel an
engineering job than building
one of the kind with which we
are familiar.”
Meanwhile. international
implications include what
London “Daily Express” des-
cribes as “the certainty that the
Suez Canal will become ever
less vital to this country
[Britain]. Soon supertankers
will by-pass it. With atomic
engines they will later be able
to do so even more economi-
cally, and faster.
“And eventually Britain’s
dependence on the oil they
carry will be much reduced
anyway. The factories will be
powered by the atom,
“It is a reassuring prospect.”
In view of these consider-
able developments and pros-
pects there are, Edinburgh
“Scotsman” adds, “two main
reasons for Britain’s refusal to
join [Euratom]:
“Firstly, since Euratom
indirectly controls “the atomic
programmes of members by
controlling supplies of fissile
material, Britain’s freedom of
action in matters bearing on
defence would be to some
extent curtailed. (France is
free to make atomic weapons,
but must share all information.)
“Secondly, the members of
Euratom are at an early stage
of atomic development. With
bitter memories of war-time
co-operation, Britain took an
independent line, and built up
a . distinctive type of organisa-
tion, which could hardly work
so well if the restrictions of an


Notice to all Sheepowners
William Cooper and Nephews
(Australia) Pty., Limited, have
developed a new spray race which
takes full advantage of the proper-
ties of the newer insecticides.
Sheep can be treated in this
"run-through” race straight off
shears for lice control, and at
any time of the year for blowfly
control.
We would welcome your inspection
of this new equipment in the
COOPER PAVILION
at the forthcoming
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
international body were placed
upon it.
If Britain joined Euratom,
it would have to be on terms
which recognised her special
Obviously, however, some
sort of co-operation is neces-
sary and inevitable, and,
London Economist” notes, the
representatives of Euratom
who visited Britain “went
home fairly well satisfied”:
_ . . Euratom, the link with
Britain is less vital than that
with the United States, which
will be its main supplier of
enriched uranium fuel. But
the British knowledge and
experience of atomic energy
are very important to the Con-
tinent. Euratom has been
promised not only knowledge,
but help in training scientists ;
and as in the United States, a
joint technical group is being
set up to work out the details
of further co-operation.
-The visit> too> was
encouraging for the sections of
British industry concerned with
atomic development. What
they saw in this country made
it clearer to the Euratom
experts that if the six
countries are to install atomic
power-stations quickly they
will have to make a start with
the Calder Hall type, which
the British can build. So a
prospect of European orders
for British construction-groups
is opening up.”
Britain’s advantage in that
respect is further underlined
by London “Financial Times”
in pointing out why the U.K..
has forged ahead of the U.S. in
the development of atomic
power-stations:
“There [the U.S.] fuel is
extremely cheap; it is plenti-
ful ; and the oil that is
obtained from abroad —mainly
from South America —is
imported for reasons of con-
venience, not of necessity. The
Americans have a great deal of
know-how in atomic energy,
but no pressing need to apply
it. That fact has shaped their
whole scientific and technical
approach to the problem.
There is none of the urgency
about obtaining large supplies
of electricity derived from
atomic energy that is felt on
this side of the Atlantic. It is
no accident that it is Britain
which has achieved the first
nuclear power-station on a
commercial basis.
“That is, of course,
Britain’s great selling-point.
The representatives of Eura-
tom left no doubt that they
regarded this fact as a major
incentive for doing business
with this country. The only
possible reason why they might
prefer to turn to the U.S.,
rather than to Britain, would
be that the Americans were
ready to offer them much more
attractive terms.”
German Defence
Costs
In the negotiations over the
German contributions towards
the support of British troops
in Germany it would seem that
the German attitude was con-
siderably affected by the pros-
pect of a cut in the number of
British troops. At any rate,
the agreed-upon amount of
£5O million was, from the
British viewpoint, a welcome
increase on last year’s £34
million and, as London
“Economist” notes, the British
negotiators were “on the
whole, and rightly, satisfied”:
“In theory the Germans are
offering to pay only £l7 mil-
lion —half of last year’s contri-
bution —towards the upkeep of
Rhine Army, the second
Tactical Air Force, and the
Rhine Flotilla during the
next twelve months ; and that
sounds comforting to the sen-
sitive German taxpayer. In
practice they have agreed to
make it £l6 million more than
last year by allotting another
£33 million for the same pur-
pose under the more palatable
title of Defence Aid.
“Naturally enough, they
have emphasised that the


NOTHING EQUALS
■ WARMRAY'S AMAZING EFFICIENCY ESI
warm ray
TRIPLE PURPOSE
SLOW COMBUSTION
AIR CONDITIONING
ROOM HEATER
latest Model (No. 2A) ha*
over 5,000 cu. ft. heating
capacity, and give* full view
of blaming fire through open
or closed front. Modern
artistic appearance finished
in cream and walnut porce-
lain enamel and reasonably
priced.
■X
-■> H ■ ■■:
n
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray" ACTUALLY
COSTS NOTHING
fit
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Model Ho. 3 Super j
De luxe
if I,an;c Capacity Oreti
8,000 cu. ft.
if Special large firebox fori
long burning without!
attention.
if Extra large hotplate fori
cooking.
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THI*.
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROO\S
HEATER OF THEM ALL REGARDLESS OF PRICEIj
WARMRAY
HEATING
TUBES
The secret of Warmray’s efficiency is the patented Heathi*
Tubes (illustrated a bore), which are built into the firebox*
The air in the room passes through these tubes continu-
ously, thus maintaining an even warmth in every part of
the room.
BURN WOOD FOR GREATEST EFFICIENCY
AND CLEANLINESS
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and Hardware
Merchants everywhere.
BUY NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.I
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributor*,
CbalUs House, Martin Place, Sydney,
Trie-grams: “Warmray.” 8L2217.
It unobtainable locally phone, write or caU for
illustrated Brochure and name of nearest agents.
agreement should not be con-
sidered to have set a prece-
dent. It does, however, set a
good precedent in two ways
—first, by transferring the
whole question of defence-
support in Germany from the
old framework of the relation-
ship . between an occupied
country and the occupying
Power, to the new framework
of the Nato alliance; and,
second, by substituting the
rule of what is right and
necessary for the rule-of-thumb
by which occupation-costs
were formerly shared out be-
tween the three allied Govern-
ments.”
At the same time, London
“Daily Telegraph” notes, the
German Government “has
agreed to two other financial
measures which will ease our
[Britain’s] balance -of - pay-
ments”:
“By depositing £75 million
here against future debt-repay-
ment, and by increasing by £lO
million the bank-balance it
uses for arms-purchases, Ger-
many will be lending us an
appreciable addition to our
foreign - exchange reserves
threequarters of it in the
equivalent of gold. This is
not only a reminder that the
British balance -of - payments
will be strengthened over the
next few years by exports of
arms to Germany: orders for
|5O million out of a possible
total of £lOO million have
already been placed.
“It also constitutes a vote
of confidence in sterling. No
Government would buy £75
million of sterling now, to
pay debt-instalments running
at £7\ million a year, unless it
were reasonably sure that it
would not be able to buy the
same sterling at a cheaper rate
later on. That the German
Government should do so is
remarkable.”
A £40-million Failure
London “Financial Times”
post-mortem on the Swift—
“an aircraft which might be
called the groundnuts-scheme
of the (British) defence-
programme”:
“As a result of an expendi-
ture of £4O-million, the Royal
Air Force took delivery of
129 “flyable” aircraft, none of
them matching the original
specification, and 28 of them
specifically subject to opera-
tional limitations.
“In December, 1950, one
month after the first order had
been placed, the Royal Air-
craft Establishment made an
assessment of performance for
the Swift which corresponded
to the aircraft’s actual achieve-
ment at the time early in
1955 when it had finally to be
rejected. The first warning
of the aircraft’s weaknesses
was therefore given at a time
when no heavy expenditure had
been incurred.
“The second warning was
given in November, 1952. The
United States evaluation-team
at that date reported that the
Swift was not an aircraft
which could be recommended
for offshore purchases by the
United States. The defects
noted in the evaluation-team’s
report were the same as those
disclosed by the original
Royal Aircraft Establishment
assessment and as those which
eventually led to rejection by
the R.A.F.
“This objective oufside-
report should have resulted in
some hesitation in pressing
further expenditure on the
Swift. In fact, however, the
Ministry of Supply, on the
request of the Air Ministry,
placed additional orders for
110 Swifts.
“The system of control which
ajlowed a project with so little
hope of success to be kept
alive so long was obviously
grossly defective.”
Various Voices
Viscount Massereene and
Ferrard: “If Moses had been
a committee, the Israelites
would still be in Egypt, which
would have saved us a great
deal of trouble today.”
Mrs. Clare Boothe Luce:
“All this talk in and out of the
U.N. about the immorality or
morality of firing the first shot
seems to me to fly in the face
of history, commonsense, logic
and patriotism. The cardinal
principle of a statesman is
that his nation has a right to
survival, and if survival de-
pends on its getting there
‘firstest with the mostest' for
the sake of its own nationhood
it must take the offensive.”
John Biggs-Davison, British
Conservative M.P.: “There is
too much croaking against the
young Britons who have
swarmed to the Dominion
migration offices. Since 1945
only about 30 per cent, of the
migrants to the overseas
Commonwealth have been
British. Too much non-
British stock could change the
national character of Aus-
tralia. The British Common-
wealth is a society of nations
and not a cosmopolitan melt-
ing-pot.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Opera or Irrigation
At a recent meeting of the
Murrumbidgee Valley Water
Users’ Association it was stated
the Snowy waters would be
coming down the Murrum-
bidgee in 1959. The N. S.
Wales Government, however,
has done nothing on the works
necessary to use this water.
The construction of a weir
at Gogeldrie and supply-
channels from this weir would
mean the opening -up of
thousands of acres of desolate
land for irrigation.
The meeting also resolved
that, if the Government is not
prepared to pay for this work,
then either the World Bank or
private enterprise should be
asked to help.
It is a pity that a State which
talks of spending million
on an opera-house is not pre-
pared to invest far less in a
scheme that would pay for
itself in a few years. — Senni
(N.S.W.).
N. S. Wales Housing
To a large extent N. S. Wales
Premier Cahill himself is res-
ponsible for the shortage of
housing-money in his State.
By increasing timber-royalties
and rail-freights on housing-
materials, and by restoring
wage-adjustments, his Govern-
ment has added hundreds of
pounds to the cost of erecting
a worker’s cottage, with the
result that available housing-
loans do not now build so
many homes.
Before Cahill’s inflationary
measures workmen were able
to buy their own homes
through building-societies at
weekly rates little higher than
rentals. The Socialists first
killed the wicked landlords;
now they have destroyed the
capacity of the average wage-
earner to pay for a new home.
These are the chief causes of
the drop in home-building.
Since Labor took office in
N. S. Wales in 1941 it has
wasted enough public money
to have built 20,000 homes.
Over £lO million has been
wasted on abandoned public
works, and more than twice
that amount has been wasted
on go-slow day-labor methods
instead of employing big con-
tracting firms, like those
which have been so successful
on the Snowy scheme.
Since the Menzies-Fadden
Government forced the Miners’
Federation to accept mechani-
sation we have got more good-
quality underground coal than
we can use. The millions spent
by Labor on open-cut coal-
mining were unwarranted
waste. Costly handouts to
striking miners over the years
have upped the price of coal,
building-materials and almost
everything else without gaining
another ton of coal. Hundreds
of thousands were wasted buy-
ing oil-burning locomotives
from overseas to save coal.
Four years ago State
railway-officials told the Cahill
Government how to save - a
million a year by using the
punched - card system and
cheques to pay employees.
Now Mr. Cahill has engaged
the American firm of Ebasco
to tell him the same thing.
The N. S. Wales Govern-
ment has wasted money, but
when funds ran low they
blame the “Canberra squeeze.”
Unfortunately, many people,
including the Sydney daily
press, appear to believe them.
—K. Me. (N.S.W.).
If more housing-loans be-
come available in N. S. Wales
.as a result of current moves,
the money should be handled
mainly by the building-
societies. There should be no
extension of housing-com-
mission building. Rather,
thousands of commission
homes should be sold on an
announced date, with the
tenant merely getting first
preference.
In the few years after 1945
many returning servicemen—•
and civilians who had to give
up homes to Digger-owners
collecting their families again
were humanely allotted
tenancy, generally after serv-
ing an “apprenticeship” in a
housing - settlement hut, and
only after investigation showed
they had young children and
not a big income.
That's getting on for 10
years ago. In the housing-
commission area where I lived
until recently, however, there
was not a dependent .child in
the street, but there were a
dozen £1250 cars, and in
several cases wives were work-
ing. Some households had an
£BO-a-week income.
For some years almost any
of these tenants have had
various sources from which
they could get finance to build
or buy a home. But it did not
pay to do that—their rents, on
the 1946 basis, are often as
low as £2 Bs. a week for a
brick bungalow.
There should be a reassess-
ment of the tenants’ financial
set-up, and those not entitled
to State largesse—and the
business is run at a loss—
should be told their homes are
to be given to someone more
needy or sold at auction. —
Domesticus (N.S.W.).
“Drink up—plenty more in the creek!”
Sporting Attendances
The Australian Athletic
Championships held at Mel-
bourne’s new Olympic Park
over the Labor Day holiday-
weekend attracted 13,000 spec-
tators, and that despite good
weather, the Moomba spirit
and the presence of most of
our Olympic competitors.
Amateur officials are down-
cast. They expected the
enthusiasm generated by the
Olympic Games to burn
brightly for years. Their
optimism was never justified.
Up to 100,000 people have
jammed the M.C.G. to see a
Test-match, and will do so
again. An inter-State game of
nearly the same standard may
attract less than 5000.
It is a ritual for many people
who could not tell oats from
chaff to be at Flemington on
the first Tuesday in November.
It’s not the standard of a
sport that brings the crowd,
it’s the importance of the
occasion socially or historic-
ally. And there may be a
lesson there in public-relations
for amateur officialdom. —
Bookie’s Dog (Vic.).
Adelaide and Art
No sooner had Melbourne’s
Moomba ended than Adelaide
began its own modest festival
of the arts.
In B. 6/3/’57 it was noted as
“inexplicable” that no other
capital city had imitated Mel-
bourne “Herald’s” open-air
art-show. For the second year
running Adelaide “Advertiser”
has held a highly successful
outdoor show on the banks of
the Torrens. Floodlit each
night, with Adelaide’s new
fountain playing in colored
lights in the background, it
drew crowds who would nor-
mally be frightened away by
the word “art.”
This year the Governor
(Sir Robert George) exhibited
three of his own paintings
among the 600 accepted.
Unfortunately w e
borrowed some of
Melbourne's weather
as well as its ideas,
and everything from
hot winds to cold
rain-squalls were
experienced during
the week —it had not
’ rained for more than
70 days before.
The open-air
theatre in the Uni-
versity grounds
suffered from the un-
certain weather on
its opening night. With a
background of floodlit cloisters,
Schiller’s tragedy of “Maria
Stuart,” translated by the


The famous
Solingen knives
*
BOWIE
\\
YA
A
r.
• The Bowie knife is of the
original design made by Colonel
Bowie during the Indian fighting
days of U.S.A. Strong, rugged
and a beautiful blade perfectly
weighted. Staghorn handle.
Fringed leather sheaths. Length
1 2 in. Price 75/-. Post free.
• The Stag Hunting Knife, Eagle’s head pommel, staghorn
handle, blade etched in three colours. Leather sheath.
Price 50/-. Post free.
• The Rhine Maiden Hunting Knife, with hammer-forged blade,
splendid balance. Beautifully sculptured metal handle, gold
finished. Length with metal-tipped dress sheath.
Price 50/-. Post free.
• The famous Black Forest Hunting Knife with metal tipped
dress sheath. Price 65/-. Post free.
• Also the TORCH KNIFE. Pre-focused torch in handle.
Price 45/-. Post free.
ALL C.O.D. CHARGES ARE EXTRA
RIP OUT AND POST
SWIFT MAIL ORDERS, Box 7051, G.P.0., Sydney. B 27/3
Please Supply
For which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS I
283 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. PHONE: BM 3102
Reader in German at Adelaide
University (Dr. Derek van
Abbe), was presented for four
nights.
Settings symbolical of
fortress-battlements and grim
prison-bars were designed in
cardboard by South Australian
artist S. Ostoja-Kotkowski, and
their shadows were projected
by colored lights to give an
effect of depth and mystery
yvithin the pillared arches.
“Fritz for lunch again , I see, Ludnick ."
Different colors, from cold-
blues to reds full of menace,
were used to underline the
emotions of the play.
Another New Australian
artist, John Olday, contributed
a series of lectures on the
history of folk-music, from
early German battle-songs to
the present day. The lectures
were illustrated with lantern-
slides made from 200 of his
clever line-drawings, including
a few delightful digs at the
A.B.C. and its visiting
celebrities.
A display of Indian art,
handicrafts and literature in
the Public Library, two
separate one-man art-shows,
and a summer festival of light
music by the S.A. Symphony
Orchestra in the Adelaide Town
Hall, completed a week of
unusual entertainment in a city
where “going to the pictures”
used to be the only alterna-
tive to staying at home. —
Nancy Cato (S.A.).
Transport Economy or
Service
It may be true, as “Wusslean”
asserts (B. 6/3/’57), that “fares
are now so high that public
transport is often not much
cheaper than travel by private
car.” It is unreal, however, to
consider the question as
though there were a choice of
two alternatives. Nobody can
completely evade our transport-
system, and the car-driver, like
any other taxpayer, will be
forced to liquidate any deficit
which public transport incurs.
Fewer people would quibble
over present fares if they were
assured of comfortable and
reliable transport. Unfortun-
ately the monopolistic trans-
port bodies have tried to meet
private competition with
repression rather than with the
challenge of improved services.
—Mac D. (Vic.).
Perth’s Olympic Pool
For some reason not clear
to the average citizen, the pro-
vision of an Olympic Pool in
Perth has become the most
important problem in W.A.
today, and the Battle of King’s
Park is on again. The defenders
(i Continued on next page )


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Trieo
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
appear to be winning, and the
Perth City Council has resorted
to pleading with the people and
Parliament for just 30 acres on
which to build their pool.
They’ve got £230,000 ear-
marked for the project, pro-
vided they’re allowed to build
it in King’s Park.
They haven’t said how
they’ll use the money if they
don’t get the 30 acres, but the
ratepayers who provided it have
come up with some suggestions.
One, and probably the best,
is to install sewerage connec-
tions throughout the city area
and dispense with the insanitary
pan-system which operates in
parts of the council’s domain.
It’s hard to imagine sanitary-
carts patrolling the streets of a
modern capital city, but that’s
the position in Perth, where
the city council is trying to
borrow £50,000 to do away
with them. Meanwhile it has
£230,000 in the kick, but that’s
for an Olympic Pool.
Another suggestion worth
considering is that the council
provide reasonable habitations
for the unfortunate native
families who camp along the
river not much more than a
mile from Perth Town Hall.
The council’s argument that
this is a State concern is
countered by the suggestion
that an Olympic Pool is a pro-
ject for the whole of the
metropolitan area —not the
City Council.
There are other suggestions,
mostly from the people who
provide the council’s finances
or from those who are being
asked to relinquish part of their
park. Meanwhile, just across
the river from Perth, and
actually inside the council’s
area, there’s an island —
Burswood where over 300
acres coufd be levelled and
prepared for sp.orting-fields at
comparatively little cost. The
island —it’s really an isthmus,
cut off by a canal dug as a
short-cut in the early days of
river-traffic —is crossed by a
railway, and in the Stephenson-
Hepburn town-plan there’s pro-
vision for a bridge to carry one
of the main arteries from the
city over it; so as a sports-
"It’s for you!"
ground it will be ideally
situated as far as traffic or the
movement of crowds are con-
cerned.
Over the new bridge it will
be only a mile-and-a-half
from the centre of the city, yet
it’s well away from residential
areas, and it’s big enough to
contain the major ground for
every sport, including hockey,
football and cricket. There’s
already a racecourse on the
island —not included in the 300
acres —so Perth citizens could
take their pick of all sports
in the one centre.
That’s about half the story.
The other half is told in
another stretch of several
hundred acres of river-edge
leading to the island, which
could be, and one day must be,
reclaimed. Added to the
island, this could provide a
series of sports-fields totalling
up to 1000 acres, perhaps
more, practically in the heart
of the city, but surrounded —
or flanked by—a broad river.
There isn’t another capital
city in the Commonwealth with
comparable prospects, yet the
City Council is haggling over
30 acres of park which the
people very rightly refuse to
part with. — Gravelsnatcher
(W.A.)
Soaking the Sick
The Queensland Govern-
ment expects to raise another
£2 million a year from unused
fees for private and inter-
mediate wards in the State’s
“free” hospitals.
It would, of course, have
been possible to raise that sum
by gingering-up the railways,
or by insisting on a good day’s
work in all Government
departments, but the Govern-
ment preferred to play safe by
taking it from the fellow in the
slightly-higher income-bracket
who usually has had the fore-
sight to take out medical-bene-
fits insurance against illness.
—Warrakoo (Q.).
Productivity
Is Professor Clark Kerr right
in saying (B. 6/2/’57) that pro-
ductivity is a goal in its own
right?
Increased production is a
desirable aim provided there’s
enough money to buy the
goods produced.
Those of us who suffered
unemployment during the
depression through no fault of
our own tend to survey full
shelves in retail shops with a
certain amount of dismay.
And a recent announcement
that automobile companies are
planning to build more cars
than ever before in the United
States this year coincided with
a picture of a “junkyard” in
New York in which cars —
obviously in far better con-
dition than any I could hope to
buy—were stacked six-deep to
keep them off the road, to
make room for the new
models.
That is production gone
mad, and although I complain
and fight every time I come up
against Government interfer-
ence with my life, I can’t help
thinking that something should
be done to stop this waste of
limited natural resources. —No
Sirrah (Q.).
Fluoride
If dental caries captured the
same headlines,
and conse-
quently the
same public
interest, as has
polio, then
fluoridation of
c o m m u n-
ity water-
supplies in
Australia (B.
1 3 / 3 / ’57)
would be well
on the way.
Polio has
had every-
thing : sudden
crippling that
hits without
warning,
emergency treatment,
Sister Kenny, and life-
and-death headline stuff that
made Salk’s appearance (and
rightly) the answer to every-
one’s prayer. By comparison,
the simple process of adding
a common element to drinking-
water has been too colorless.
Its advocacy in Australia
has been left largely to the
dentists and, understandably,
they are not setting them-
selves up as pedlars of
miraculous prevention of
decay. They will give
interested communities all the
data they wish, form advisory
committees for them, and
guide their efforts, but they
refuse to push-in to the extent
where their business is to
defend fluoridation. They say,
“If you really want it, you get
it.”
So the position is that,
while almost every health-
body has approved fluoridation,
only a handful of Australian
centres are seriously consider-
ing it at present. — M’boro
(Q-).


♦
#
M'.
THE ROYAL EASTER
HOW
12th April to 23rd April, 1957
Don’t miss the greatest spectacle of the year. At the 1957 Koval
Easter Show you will see our finest stock on parade, cattle judging, wood
chopping, primary and secondary industry exhibits and a
feature-packed programme of special ring events, including trotting.
Come to the 1957 Royal Easter Show at the Showground, Sydney.
OttHß
O>N
»W**2!E
lU i«


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE SYDNEY SHOW
OYDNEY ROYAL, the
biggest show of its kind
in the world, runs from April
12 to April 23—10 days and
eight nights. Xt R.A.S. head-
quarters in Macquarie Place,
and out at the Show-
ground they have been prepar-
ing for it since the last day.of
the 1956 Show; on this scale
of reckoning, it has practically
arrived ; and indications are
that this 1957 Show will be a
particularly interesting one,
from all sorts of angles.
Last year’s attendance was
1,220,515—a tidy number, but
As rabbit hair for
making men’s hats is
in short supply
American headgear
manufacturers are
pushing the sale of
all-wool caps. Here is
still another reason
for the constantly-
growing demand for
wool by Industry—
and another reason
why lamb care is so
important. When
marking and tailing,
Elastrator Rubber
Rings should be used
to reduce the risks of
set-back, fly-strike and
germ infection.
below the record attendance of
1,232, 413 in 1947. Whether the
record is broken this year or
not, it seems highly probable
that more people will see certain
sections of the show this year
than ever before, because these
will be televised. The telecasts
will be made by the national
station ABN (Channel 2) and
the two Sydney commercial
stations, ATN (Channel 7) and
TCN (Channel 9). Sydney
Show will be the first “Royal”
to be televised, and no doubt
councillors from other States —
of whom a representative roll-
up can be expected—will keep
an interested eye on the experi-
ment.
At time of writing, with more
entries to come, total entries
are 28,330 —not far below the
1953 best-ever figure of 30,239.
There have been record entries
for wine and spirits, cats,
poultry, arts and crafts, wood- -
chopping, and trotting.
Emphasising the dual nature
of the show —what gives it its
special character as a national
shop-window—the value of
purebred livestock and of
industrial exhibits at the show
will be about the same:
£2 milliorl each. The £2-
million-worth of industrial
exhibits will be staged by some
500 exhibitors.
There have been 3094 entries
in the cattle section, including
1351 in beef-cattle classes, in
which the breed split-up is:
Shorthorns, 206 ; Poll Short-
horns, 244; Herefords, 438;
Poll Herefords, 148 ; Devons,
66; Aberdeen Angus, 236 ;
Galloways, four; Santa Ger-
trudis, nine.
R. S. Wilson, of Calliope
station, Calliope, Queensland,
will judge the Shorthorns ;
H. W. Thiemann, of Con-
cordia, Missouri, U.S.A., will
judge the Poll Shorthorns;
S. B. Reynolds, of Moorlands,
Rosalie Plains, Queensland,
will judge the Herefords ; and
two other Queenslanders —
E. W. G. McCamley, of
Eulogie Park, and E. B. Joyce,
of Eidsvold—will judge Poll
Herefords and the Santa
Gertrudis respectively. M. F.
White, of Belltrees, Scone
(N.S.W.), is the Aberdeen
Angus judge, and H. R.
Trethewie, of Whisloca, North
Esk (Tas.), will look after the
Devons, S. B. Reynolds
will judge beef-cattle paraders
(41 entries), live steers will
be judged by their respective
breed-judges, and G. Tancred,
he Sydney master-butcher, will
judge the carcass classes.
There’s a total of 1502 entries
in the dairy-cattle classes:
Australian Ulawarra Short-
horns, 391; Ayrshires, 184;
Jerseys, 385 ; Guernseys, 221 ;
and Friesians, 321. Judges are:
A. 1.5., S. T. Phillips, Sunny
View, Kingaroy (Q.); Ayr-
shires, W. Lohoar, Wester
Balrymonth, St. Andrews,
Scotland ; Jerseys, F. Tre-
vaskis, Ballara, Tongala (Vic.) ;
Guernseys, J. Dawson (who
also judges the dairy-cattle
paraders), of Rochester (Vic.);
Friesians, J. W. Rainey,
Flaxton, Kaiapoi, New Zea-
land.
The R.A.S. has been obliged
to restrict entries in some of the
younger dairy-cattle classes.
Dual-purpose cattle will be
judged by L. M. Dugdale, of
Noorilim, Murchison East
(Vic.), who will look after the
Red Polls, and J. W. D. Ward,
of Flinders (Vic.), who will
judge the Dairy Shorthorns.
D a i r y-p r o d u c e will be
judged by J. T. Dickson, of the
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture (butter for local con-
sumption), R. C. Hottes and
J. McGahey, of the Common-
wealth Department of Primary
Industry (export butter and
cheese, dried milk), G. M. D.
Carse, of the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture (hams,
bacon and lard), and H. Silver-
sides, of the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture (cheese for
local consumption). Entries in
the dairy-produce sections
have been brisk, too—higher
than for any Royal Sydney
Show since 1940. The main
feature has been the increased
entries for cheese.
Fat-lamb carcasses were
judged last month ; also wine
and spirits. The fat-lamb
results have been announced,
but the wine-and-spirit awards
will be announced when the
show opens.
Pig entries, at 751, are 44
more than last year, and the
third-highcst on record. Out at
Moore Park quite a bit of work
has been going on at the Pig
Pavilion, improving accommo-
dation. Berkshires top the list
with 370 (335 last year), Large
Whites are next with 150 (129
last year), and Tamworths 121
(101). But Wessex Saddle-
backs, with 49 entries (57 last
year), Large Blacks, with 14
(28), and the pork and bacon
entries (47 compared with last
year’s 55) are down.
J. B. Snell, of Bolivar (S.A.)
will judge the Berkshires ; C. T.
Harrison, of East Side, Porn-
borneit (N.S.W.), Large
Whites; A. Downie, Herne Hill,
Geelong (Vic.), Tamworths ; C.
J. Toner, Rosebank, Bardwid-
gee Creek, via Myrtleford
(Vic.), Wessex Saddlebacks; J.
E. Treacy, Gunbower (Vic.),
Large Blacks ; and the commer-
cial classes will be judged by
L. A. Downey, of the Victorian
Department of Agriculture.
There is a new trophy in the
pig section—the Denis P.
Hayes Memorial Trophy for
boar-progeny group. Denis P.
Hayes was vice-president of the
N.S.W. branch of the Aus-
tralian Pig Society. The
trophy was presented by his
son, D. M. Hayes, of Hillsia,
Warral, Tamworth (N.S.W.).
Entries in the goat section
are fewer than last year—lso
compared with last year’s 195.
The judge will be Dr. H. G.
Belschner, more widely known
as an authority on sheep
(author of Sheep Management
and Diseases, former head of


Vie "Fatonebs Boy"
tk'-> \ ■■/Z-'?.
:, ■ '
% v.*
. *«SS
m
* -
ii@yiK
Ploughing with
.Farmers’ lioy Major.’
<?r*v o r n ] thousand “Farmers’ Boys” aie in use in Australia giving trouble
free service.
Miow ;i models of these multi-purpose light tractors are offered for
your choice.
The “Farmers’ Boy Series II”
] for ploughing, rotary hoeing.
V rotary scytliing or cutter-bar and
J cultivating equipment, etc.
and introducing
Tlie "Farmers’ Hoy Minor” powered by 1.2 h.p. Villiers engine, with
rotary hoe —attachable front or rear; the revolutionary reciprocating hoe
to replace the old hand weeding and chipping; also rotary scythe for
grass cutting.
3 machines in one —for use around every home.
As we cannot obtain space at the It. A. Showgrounds we invite Show
Visitors to inspect our Display at address below during otlice hours and
on Easter Saturday.
Do not fail to see the new "Major” spray which at low cost can save
time and many backaches to the orchardist and smaller owner.
If in N.S.W., please send attached slip to: —
HUBERT STOKES & CO. PTY. LTD.,
32 WHITING STREET, ARTARMON, N.S.W.
Telephones: JF 4386, JF 1180 Telegrams; "Stokesagencies,” Sydney,
for demonstration or literature stating Whether interested in the
“Farmers’ Roy Major,” "Series II” or “Minor,” and in which accessories.
Name
Address
Please post literature or demonstrate (strike out words not required)
Victoria:
Sth. A list.:
(Vlaml:
Tasmania:
W. Aust.:
OTHERWISE
Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 00 William St.. Melbourne. M1J8551.
M. S. McLeod Ltd., 170-1 *0 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 15.11.
Buzacotts (Qlil.) Ltd.. 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA2681.
Cameron & Sutherland Ltd., 115 York St., Launceston.
Latin. 2045. 173 Murray St., Hobart. 822G4.
Western Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd., 404 Murray St., Perth.
BA 2405.
x<v-
*s>T;
rut
r^ T
tr£A
ive
rit!l
A?
S&i
Obtainable
from
Veterinary
Surgeons
and
Butter
Factories
MACLAREN LABORATORIES PTY., LTD.,
152 Fulham Rd., Alphington, Vic. JX4354
Russian Comfrey
1. Gives the world’s heaviest fodder
yield (over 100 tons an acre in
0-8 cuts each yedrl).
2. Has the highest protein of any
crop in the world having reached
33.<>8% protein.
3. Produces heavy cuts through
dry Summer conditions as well
as in Spring and Autumn.
4. Persists for up to 40 years with-
out deteriorating and yields up
to one ton per day from only
J 4 acres.
5. Is preferred by cows and poultry
to grass.
0. Stops scouring, prevents and
cures digestive troubles in stock
and poultry.
7. Boosts Summer milk and is
ready early to prevent milk
decline.
8. Is relished also by other live-
stock, including horses, sheep,
pigs and goats.
9. Is very high in minerals and
vitamins.
10. Is good human food also and
is useful in treatment of gastric
and duodenal ulcers.
11. Has no Insect pests, and rabbits
will not touch it.
Autumn planting gives best
results. W rite for free booklet
giving story of first farm experi-
ments with Russian Comfrey ever
to be carried out in Australia.
Roots available from farm-tested
plants anil arrival in fresh con-
dition guaranteed by pioneer
grower
W. F. SAVAGF,
RED HILL SOUTH, VICTORIA.
Phone: RHS 207.
the division of animal industry,
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture, now senior lecturer in
animal husbandry at Sydney
University) but also, one learns,
an authority on goats and
author of a book on the
subject.
Wheat entries are up—l4l
compared with 94 last year.
Strong-wheat classes have
attracted 42 entries (32 last
year), medium 88 (59), and
weak 11 (three).
Oats entries are 10 (16),
maize 134 (145), and apiculture
110 (130).
There have been 400 entries
in the Commonwealth district
competition, compared with
390 last year. The northern,
central, western and southern
N.S.W. districts and the More-
ton and Downs districts of
Queensland will again compete.
A number of champion
hacks of other Royal Easter
Shows will be put through their
paces at the showground again
this year. They include Sky
Gold, entered by Miss R.
Emery, of Nowra (N.S.W.);
Mica (J. S. and Mrs. Boyd.,
of Young, N.S.W.); Avalanche
(Mrs. R. A. Pye, Coonamble,
N.S.W.); Dark Beau (Mrs.
G. B. S. Falkiner, Warren,
N.S.W.); and Vanity (Miss A.
Swadling, Sydney). All these
horses have won either the
Colonel A. V. Pope silver-cup
for the best 12st. or 14st.
hack showing thorough-
bred qualities, or the F. L.
Crane perpetual trophy for the
best mare over 14.2 and not
exceeding 15.2 hands, showing
thoroughbred qualities.
M. Worboys will be sending
down a team from Gunnedah
(N.S.W.), including several
which have collected “firsts”
at the Sydney Royal. Mr.
Worboys has been a leading
exhibitor in hack and pony
classes at Sydney for several
years, exhibits regularly at
shows in the northern part of
State, and was the most suc-
cessful exhibitor in saddle-
horses and galloway classes at
last year’s Sydney Royal. Mrs.
A. McMillan, of Holbrook,
(N.S.W.), after an absence of
a couple of years, has entered
two horses in every jumping
event. And W. M. Tweddle, of
Dirranbandi (Q.), who was
prevented by floods from
bringing his horses down last
year, has entered several hacks.
One of these, Valiant, won the
first-prize for novice heavy-
weight hacks when F. Middle-
miss owned it; another took a
third-prize for a galloway
hack at Melbourne Royal.
Polo, of course, is one of the
more colorful features at the
Sydney Royal. This year a
team of Americans will fly here
to play matches against Aus-
tralian teams during the show.
L. C. Smith, the captain, is a
Californian, and is western
governor of the U.S.A. Polo
Association. Two other
members of the team, Manduk
Baldwin and Gordon Vantemp-
sky, are pineapple-growers
from Makawa Mauri, in the
Hawaiian Islands. Baldwin is
rated at five goals outdoor and
six goals indoor, Vantempsky is
rated four goals outdoor and
five goals indoor, and Smith
is rated at one goal outdoor
and two goals indoor.
Local teams competing will
include Goulburn (last year’s
winners), West, North-west,
and Dungog.
Colonel V. D. S. Williams
and Mrs. Williams, of East
Burnham Park, Farnham
Royal, Btjcks., who will judge
some of the horse events, are
two of the best-known eques-
trian authorities in Britain.
Colonel Williams was one of
the founders of the British
Show Jumping Association in
1922, also had a hand in found-
ing the Pony Club, and was the
first Englishman to be invited
to judge dressage at the
Olympic Games. He was
responsible for the planning of
the British three-day-event and
dressage teams fof the 1956
Olympic Games (the first won
a gold-medal).
Mrs. Williams won the Prix
St. Georges, the highest award
for dressage in England, and
(Continued on next page)


TIE WIRE-NETTING
GERRARD
AUTOMATIC
RING FASTENER
GUN - - - 60/- each
GALVANISED FASTENERS
- - - - - 11/- per 1000*
SE
A
k
(25 yds. per minute)
Ring Fasteners are sold
in packets of 1000
> r
As fast as you can squeeze Its
easy-working handles, this self-
feeding gun effortlessly clamps the
14 Gauge cement-adhered staples into sturdy J-
cslly fed into the jaws. There is no wastage—the
in. rings, which are automati-
job is quick, neat and strong.
Available from ALL WOOL HOUSES and
GENERAL STORES
Manufactured by Gerrard Engineering Pty. Ltd., 18 Ireland St., W. MELB.
NUCIARfIIS
SOLUTION
Of
Calcium
Borogfucosafe
lor treatment of
MILK
FEVER
in dairy cattle
and sheep
Distributee! by
Veterinary Surgeons
and Butter Factories
was the first woman to repre-
sent England in dressage at the
Olympic Games.
At the Sydney Show,
thoroughbreds will be judged
by J. H. Ashton, of Sydney,
and C. E. Barnes, of Canning
Downs, Warwick (Q.); Arabs,
and girls’ riding contests, A. J.
McLean, Walla Walla,
Narromine (N.S.W.); trotters
and pacers, E. A. Birch, Castle
Hill [N.S.W.) ; ponies (stud and
hackney), D. Palmer, Gundagai
(N.S.W.); Shetland ponies and
saddle-ponies, G. C. Mitchell,
Liddleton station, Hartley
(N.S.W.); Clydesdales, Pcr-
cherons, and draught-horses in
general, A. J. Longmine,
Glenclg, Narrandera (N.S.W.);
and hacks, police-horses,
police-musical-ride, and gentle-
men’s equipment, Colonel
Williams.
M. Moore, of Whakatutu,
Gisborne (N.Z.), will judge the
ladies’ equipment events; B. B.
Haydon, Greenkeyes, Mur-
rundi (N.S.W.), the polo- and
polocrosse-ponies, station-hack
and -pony, walking-horse and
pony, and gentlemen’s riding
competitions ; R. R. Ashton, of
Checkers, Cargo (N.S.W.), and
J. A. Sharp, of Sydney, will
judge the novice dressage;
Mrs. Williams and R. R.
Ashton will judge the
elementary and medium dres-
sage, and Miss A. Campbell and
J. A. Sharp will judge the
trained-pony test. Mrs.
Williams will also judge the
ladies’ riding.
Mrs. A. F. Cameron, of
Calton Hill, Dungog (N.S.W.)
will judge the boys’ riding
contests and pony-club events ;
A. E. Elvy, of Sydney, will
judge the harness-horses,
harness-ponies and business
turnouts ; J. A. Walsh, Sydney,
will judge the trotting events ;
C. A. Rogers, Warrnambool
(Vic.), will judge hunting events;
David W. R. Knox, Gunda-
main, Nagambie (Vic.), jump-
ing ; and B. B. Haydon, I. J.
MacCallum, of Scone (N.S.W.),
and M. F. Quinlivan, of
Pooraka (S.A.), will tot up the
score in the rodeo and camp-
drafts.
This year the rodeo
programme is enlarged, with
record prizemoney of £3303.
The Australasian buckjumping
championship alone has prize-
money of £ll6O, with £6OO for
the winner. The total amount
of prizemoney this year is a
record, too —£36,888.
This year an equestrian
three-day event will be held for
the first time in Australia. It
will be based on the three-day
event held during the 1956
(Continued on page 60)


s\A
nV
m
m
&
pfi
mm
%
You've probably
never shaken
this hand
... but you should!
It’s the hand of a man who does more to boost your
wool cheque than almost anyone else you can mention.
He's a man who has spent his life in the wool game,
developing skill and judgment to ensure that your
wool sells at its true value. (
He is one of the reasons that you will find your
neighbour recommends the Jimac Wool P 001... he is
one of a team of true "professionals" who put that
little extra into their jobs so that wool prepared for
our clients brings the maximum return when sold
through a broker.
BRIDGLAND BROWN PTY. LTD.
174-150 DOWLING ST.. EAST SYDNEY, and HANNEL ST.. WICKHAM. NEWCASTLE


me vom mmen
HOOFS AND HORNS
lor their BIRTHDAY or for CHRISTMAS
It is the Best Gift you can give them
“HOOFS AND HORNS” brings you the
whole horse world every month; complete
coverage of Shows, Polocrosse, Hunting,
Pony Clubs, Polo and Rodeo.
Subscriptions:
6 months ... . . . . 15/-
12 months . . . . . . 30/-
24 months . . . . . . 55/-
Send to:
“HOOFS AND HORNS,”
Box 101, G.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia.
"LONGHORN"
MR WM
The Brand of Quality
BRAND
Where HORSES and AUSTRALIANS
get together
OR PLEASURE ... FOR WORK ...
Show Ring
Hunting
Polo
Polocrosse
Rodeo
With Cattle
With Sheep
On Station
On Farm
In Stockyard
sLLIAMS' GEAR WILL BE REPRESENTED
ON THE MAN AND ON THE HORSE
Boots, Saddles, Clothes, Leather, Rope and
Canvas Goods of HIGH QUALITY—
made to stand the most exacting tests.
jSED BY MEN WHO KNOW QUALITY
illustrated brochure and self-measurement forms
available from—
R.IVI. WILLI AMS Ltd.
5 Percy Street, Prospect
South Australia
’Phone: ML 1191 Wire: “Longhorn,” Adelaide
Olympic Equestrian Games at
Stockholm, in which Australia
came fourth in a field of 19
nations. The R.A.S. one will
be held in Centennial Park on
April 15 and 16 and in the
Showground on April 17.
Entries for the thoroughbred
and stud-trotting classes close
this Friday (March 29). The
R.A.S. is keen to get some
good entries of thoroughbreds ;
from the spectacle point of
view this is very understand-
able. Officials point out that
all sorts of care will be taken
“ ’Struth, I DO feel obsolete this morning !”
that the "valuable and excitable
fellows won't hurt themselves
or one another. The thorough-
breds will be paraded and
judged in the main ring on the
afternoon of Thursday, April
18.
The ring will be cleared
before they are brought in,
they will be taken to and from
the arena in their own floats,
and they can be taken home as
soon as the judging and parade
are over.
Cats are in the record class —
280 entries. Dogs are slightly
down in numbers (231 Q|
compared with 2313 last year),
in 67 different breeds (64 last
year). The most popular breed
this year, as for several years
past, is’ the cocker-spaniel,
Other breeds which have im-
proved in representation are
border-collies, bulldogs,
German Shepherds (otherwise
Alsatians), smooth fox-terriers,
and boxers. But this is but a
selection from the better-known
breeds. Also on show,
Samoyedes (27), Schnauzers
(five), Alghan-hounds (17),
Doberman Pinschers (four),
Basenjis (one), bloodhounds
(one), and Chihuahuas (two).
Also Scottish deerhounds, Shi
Tzus, and Weimaraners. But
there are only 98 Australian
cattledogs, compared with 104
last year, and 47 kelpies (63
last year).
Dogs, cats, goldfish . . . Yes,
there will be goldfish, too—
classes , and eight classes
of tropical fish. Workmen
have been building aerated fish-
tanks m the Horticulture
Pavilion. More and more, the
R.A.S. caters for a variety of
to another
Arts - and Crafts. This
Continued on page 62)
yt>


Be Sure to See Our Stand at the Show
%*\- ,
HUGIHHFLY
..'Af.M-
TUBULAR STEEL GARAGE or SHED
Made to any size light
but sturdy—2 men can erect
framework in half hour.
MOM-FLY
CAR PORT
The economical way to cover your
car—can be erected easily—<an be
used as sun porch when required."
•jVrr,
sv •'
\"- r ? '
Also Manufacturers of HIGH-FLY Tubular Steel Tank Stands • HIGH-FLY
Automatic Poultry Feeders • HIGH-FLY Stock Ramps • HIGH-FLY Rotary
Clothes Hoists © HIGH-SPAN Tubular Steel Buildings of all Types, Industrial
and Rural.
MACSHIEL RURAL ACCOMMODATION
y
■*-
mm
• Prefabricated steel.
• Insulated against heat and cold in roof and walls.
• Proof against fire, white ants, dry rot and
vermin.
• Approved by Dept, of Labour and Industry.
FOR PARTICULARS AND QUOTES FOR BUILDINGS
OR RURAL ACCOMMODATION MAIL THIS
To
CLEVELAND ENGINERING & WELDING CO. PTY. LTD.,
Daking House, Rawson Place, Sydney.
Or
CLEVELAND ENGINEERING (TAMWORTH) PTY. LTD.,
Or
145 Bridge Street, Tamworth.
CLEVELAND ENGINEERING (CHARLEVILLE) PTY. LTD.,
Box 180, Charleville, Queensland.
Please send me particulars of Buildings.
NAME ..
ADDRESS
Type and Sire Req’d


IUILDI
IN EASY, STANDARDISED, INTERCHANGEABLE
STEEL BUILDING UNITS
IX
IfllliSS. I
THE FAMOUS
STEEL-FRAIM
Ready-to-Erect
Shearing Sheds
This is only one of a number of shearing shed
layouts a team of handy men can erect econ-
omically and rapidly using the well-known
STEEL-FRAIM Standardised building units.
Everything is made easy to follow by painting
the various foundation, wall and roof memben
distinctive colors—even the doors are complets
with locks and hinges ready for bolting.
If you want a larger shed, or a smaller shed, or
a different arrangement of pens, shearing board
and wool room, let us show you how simple il
is with STEEL-FRAIM. '
BOWAS CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.
Manufacturers of the famous Sidney Williams Steel-Fraim buildings
Williams Parade (Off Constitution Rd.), Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. LMS2Q4, LM7886
In Qld.: 108 Colchester St., South Brisbane. J 4833
Combat #
‘" VO Wit£
SON
~pO I
■fesa*
o lcHi>i
05~- -
Obtainable
of
Butter Factories
and from
Veterinary Surgeons
will be housed in its own
pavilion this year (last year it
was in the Horticulture
Pavilion), which is the new
pavilion built for the French
Exhibition. A very popular
section, this, with entries from
Queensland, Victoria, Tas-
mania, South Australia and
Western Australia. This year
there will be a photography
section—the first for 39 years—
and, besides competitive entries
(including six from a 16-year-
old boy from Alice Springs,
Peter Jones), there will be an
exhibition put on by the
N.S.W. Professional Photo-
graphers’ Association.
In fact, something for every-
one. Poultry, 884 classes
(including pigeons, cage-birds
and whatnot); and a mutton-
and lamb-grading demonstraT
tion put on by the Australian
Meat Board, between 10 a.m.
and 4 p.m. on Tuesday, Wed-
nesday and Thursday, June 4,
5 and 6.
And, hard on the heels of
the Show itself (a good example
-of the continuous nature of the
R.A.S. activities), comes the
fat-stock show and sales. There
are 31 classes for steers or
classes of any beef-breed or
crosses of two pure beef-
breeds, divided into three
sections: pasture-fed, un-
restricted, and Junior Farmers’
entries.
This year the age-limit has
been tightened—beasts must
have not more than four teeth.
Entries close on Monday,
April 29. Total prizemoney is
£2500—£200 more than last
year.
Unthriftiness
“Dartmoor”: Poor-quality
feed and possible cobalt-
deficiency are the most likely
reasons why weaners and other
sheep are not doing as well as
they should at this time of the
year.
After a long dry summer,
paddock-feed is definitely not
good enough, even though it
may have enough bulk. In
other words, it is filling, but
not satisfying, the sheep. Once
weaners get a check, they arc
easy marks for worms which
pull them down quickly.
In addition, if weak they
often suffer from cobalt-
deficiency in areas where
they do not normally show the
trouble when they are in good
condition. With cobalt-
deficiency, weaners don’t do
well, their skins become
tender, and they may even die.
The best answer is to hand-
feed weaners —grain or good-
quality hay is best and
drench them every two months
with phenothiazine, for a
start, then with the same drug
or the cheaper bluestonc-
nicotine.
Use an cesophageal-tube
attachment on the drenching-
gun and make sure it hasn’t
any sharp edges. Where
cobalt-deficiency is diagnosed,
immediate drenching with
cobalt-solution and topdressing
with cobaltaliscd-super. is the
present answer. The use of
recently - developed cobalt
“bullets,” which will give sheep
enough cobalt for life, should
solve the problem when they
become available.
“C.A.A.”: Pick pears before
they start to turn yellow if you
want them to last in storage
and to keep their flavor.
Another danger with late pick-
ing is that they are more likely
to develop sunscald and core-
breakdown. ' Best storage-
temoerature is between 65 and
70 degrees.


The above Illustration shows
example of compacted earth.
typical
PUT UK BACK
into your soil
and pastures!
Autumn Cultivute NOW
Compaction kills your soil life just as surely as a 10-year
drought. Now is the time to check your own soil and
pastures by making this simple, practical experiment.
Dig a "spit" of earth 8" deep from your pasture and poke your
finger into it. Break it open and if it is like the illustration on the
left, the actual root system of the clovers and grasses will be
shallow with a very limited feeding lone.
See also ho* close to the surface are the nodules—the nitrogen factories. This
pasture may appear good, but in reality the soil is dead. Its very "life"—from
the smallest single cell bacteria to the largest earthworm—has disappeared
completely. Denied air, moisture and warmth, the three essentials for soil life,
these soil "workers" have died and the fertility cycle of tha soil has ceased.
Life, death and decay must be re-established to bring fertility back to the soil.
m
4k
‘rV.
The remedy is so simple and
economical. The Graham, with
its exclusive "jack-hammer”
effect, easily breaks up the
hardest compaction. Reaching
down into this dying soil to a
depth of |Jj" to 2" just below
the root lone, the Graham pro-
duces complete and rapid aera-
tion and a terrific re-build-up of
the soil "life."
These earthworms were taken
from Graham-plowed land
which, 3 years previously, was
fhln and sick.
Now is the time to do your autumn cultivation and bring
about this rapid soil development. Contact your local
agent—he can supply the correct size Graham for your
tractor now.
9 Penetrates compacted soil or plow tales.
9 Deep aeration quickly builds soil fertility and
allows the complete absorption of all rain.
9 Produces healthier pastures and better crop yields.
9 A UNIQUE GUARANTEE PROTECTS YOU
COMPLETELY. The frame is guaranteed for
fwo years and the coiled oscillating spring
mechanism and all other components
for one year unconditionally against
faulty manufacture.
The genuine GRAHAM Chisel Plow Is patented
throughout the world and manufactured In Aus-
tralia under licence from the Graham Plow
Company, Amarillo, Texas, U.S.A., by:
YEOMANS
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
537 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
'Phone MX 2515
• Builds a mulch into tha soil and doubles subsoil
moisture.
0 Requires no maintenance—not even greasing.
0 The patent coiled oscillating spring is the
perfect stump-jump and shock
absorber mechanism.
0 Seven easily fitted attach*
ments all-purpose culti-
vating implement.
Post tin's coupon f
To Yeomans Proprietary Limited,
537 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Please send your "Graham Plow
Cultivation" Brochure and Seeder
details to:
NAME
ADDRESS.
m
YEOMANS HIRE PURCHASE TERMS ARE TE£


monarchy from a political
to a symbolic institution and
a corresponding merging of
the individual importance of
Royal personages in the idea
itself, accounted for the
change.
In 1936, thanks to the care-
fully adjusted “treatment” of
the press about the intimate
private life of the Royal
Family, the public knew noth-
ing of discord until it was far
advanced; and even then it
watched the agonising comings
and goings of Mr. Baldwin and
the spiritual wrestlings of the
Archbishop of Canterbury
with sentimental interest but
without anxiety, knowing that
there was, if necessary, another
and obviously model king
around the corner.
There was for me some
personal disillusionment. I
had not so far lost my over-
seas simplicity as to doubt that
“Our Smiling Prince” really
had had the affection of the
populace. I was slightly
shocked to find it was only
skin-deep. There was some-
thing revolting in the revela-
tion of insincerity about
“demonstrations of love” for
Royal individuals which could
be turned on and off iike water
from a tap, according to an
official steer.
Jt*
WHEN editor Percy Cud-
lipp, with some idea of
giving the paper a good shake,
assigned Valentine Castlerosse,
the liveliest social columnist of
his generation, and me jointly
to fill a page of the "Evening
Standard” with whatever we
could find, I was a little appre-
hensive.
Expansive, exuberant and
inexhaustibly cheerful, Castle-
rosse knew the idle rich from
the inside. But he was a dis-
locating chap to work with.
I arrived at 11 a.m. at the
rendezvous, his club, to find
him sitting in the front door-
way watching the people pas-
sing in the street from behind
a bottle of champagne. He
always began the day on
champagne.
“Always start the day with
champagne, Low. Good for
the liver.”
I dislike champagne. Think
it a woman’s drink.
“Come,” I said, “let's go to
the football-match.”
“Football?” says he.
“What’s that?”
At ha If-past-three we were
still lunching at the American
Club arguing the point with a
mixed batch of lords and
Americans about an historic
character called Old Parr who
was buried at Westminster
Abbey after having been con-
victed of rape at the age of
ninety. It was getting late for
the football.
“Let’s go to Westminster
Abbey, then,” 1 said.
We set out in his enormous
car, one of the first —if not the
first —to be fitted with a radio.
Its blare of “You are My
Heart’s Delight” was much
appreciated in traffic-blocks.
He occupied four-fifths of the
back seat, I the other fifth, both
of us sporting ten-inch cigars
and for a whimsy wearing
one another’s hats. Altogether
we were just right for West-
minster Abbey.
We removed the hats respect-
fully and passed through
panelled doorways into a
chamber where sombrely-
dressed men of ascetic appear-
ance were sitting around. But
this was not the Abbey, We
were at Ladbroke’s, the book-
makers, listening in solemn
silence to somebody with a
voice suggestive of the dean
of all denominations announc-
ing the number of a hymn,
retailing from a telephone the
progress of the Cambridge-
shire.
“Come on!” I said. “The
Abbey!”
“Ah! The Abbey!” said
Castlerosse. “Waiter! Cham-
pagne ! ”
Again we set out, the car
playing “The Love Call” from
“Rose Marie,” and again we
overshot the Abbey . . . This
austere office with the formid-
able safe in the corner was, I
gathered, the sanctum of
Castlerosse’s pet moneylender.
That was a sad interlude.
There was a depression in the
money-lending business, and
Castlerosse promised to sow
more wild oats in future.
The expedition finished-up
at half-past-two in the morn-
ing sitting in Castlerosse’s flat
disputing vaguely about social
justice.
“I must go home,” I said.
“Don't you ever work?”
“My dear Low,” he replied,
“don’t be blasphemous.”
T 7 ONG after he was dead I
stood, alone and ruminat-
ing, before the remains of his
ancestral seat in Ireland, burnt-
out during the “thrubbles.”
Before me, ruins and a
mountain-stone, behind me
whispering trees, under me the
cobbled stones of a courtyard.
I thought what a lovely sight
it would be to see Castlerosse
in armor riding up on a big
white horse, calling out:
“Waiter! Champagne! ”
A likeable soul. How strange
that this should be his environ-
ment.
22
DN times of real anxiety
about public affairs, most
people find relief in sign-
ing and joining. The busier
ones rush about drawing up
manifestos, letters to the press,
petitions to Parliament, etc.,
and forming “Progressive
Groups,” “Peace Fellowships,”
“People’s Unions” and so on.
The others sign and join.
Therein lies a temptation for
the overwilling. I knew one
zealous chap who was known
as the president of the Joiners’
Union because he joined every-
thing.
I had been to a limited extent
a signer, but rarely a joiner. It
seemed to me that a public
commentator should be
unattached, a being sitting
apart, perched in the blue. I
had never felt called upon to
join any party: I was positively
uncomfortable in crowds, and
I felt no need to pump up my
own enthusiasm with mass
emotion.
Parties there had to be if
aims were to be realised, but
my place was always on their
flanks, doubting, careful lest
loyalty be perverted from the
ideas to the organisations
which existed only to carry out
the ideas.
Being sceptical, particularly
of ideology identified with the
permanent success of one
party organisation exclusively,
I was unsympathetic to those
whose reaction to the brutali-
ties of the Nazi party and the
Fascist party was to pop head-
long into the Communist
party. If the ideas of the first
two were misconceived and
fallacious, the Communist
faith seemed to me to have
obvious flaws both in diagnosis
and cure.
No doubt the capitalist
system had within itself the
seeds of its own disintegra-
tion, as the Marxists said; but
so had all systems —if they
didn’t burst new buds now and
then. It was too simple to
imagine that Capitalism had
no adaptability whatever. I
had my doubts whether Com-
munism was the medicine at
all for a political equalitarian
society, already highly indus-
trialised, that could make the
necessary blend of individual-
ism and Socialism.
I banked cm the British
political genius for mixing oil
and water. 1 thought H. G.
Wells was right when he said:
“Someone should shave that
fellow Marx.”
IF the first step to Public Life
is writer’s-cramp, the second
is platform-sitter’s spine. When
the oracles speak there always
has to be a row of supporters
behind them to sit with stiff
dignity “dressing” the plat-
form.
As a platform-sitter I under-
went my share of the occupa-
tional discomforts, but I met
some nice people who looked
as admirable from the rear as
they no doubt did from the
front. I was glad to form part
of the background to Lord
Robert Cecil, Gilbert Murray,
Henry Nevinson, Norman
Angell, Maynard Keynes.
There were golden moments,
too, .as when one portly
speaker, after a magnificent
address, sat down on his
glasses without the least
sacrifice of dignity.
The third step is making the
speech oneself. To platform-
sit is one thing, to make the
speech another. I had learned
to make a bumbling after-
dinner speech to a sympathetic
company and to deliver a set
address from a script; but I
had not made more than two
or three political platform-
speeches before I perceived
that there was a big difference.
The conditions of this kind
of public speaking demanded
a long and arduous apprentice-
ship, especially for me. My
habits of thought and expres-
sion were against me. I could
not think fluently without
pondering now and then. My
crushing rejoinders were too
slow. The artist feels and
expresses himself in images.
The talker thinks and expresses
himself in words.
That kind of politics was
not for me, I decided. To cele-
brate my retirement I went on
the platform for a swan-song,
in the company of Stafford
Cripps, Nye Bevan, J. B.
Priestley, Victor Gollancz and
others, at a bumper meeting of
protest at the old Queen’s Hail
about the Government’s supine
attitude to foreign intervention
in Spain.
The meeting was packed to
the ceiling, and when the chair-
man called me up to speak the
audience applauded for a solid
five minutes. A new and warm-
ing experience . . . direct hot
contact . . . What a pity, I
thought . . . What am I doing
here? ... Not my line.


That was my final appear-
ance as a political platform-
speaker.
To)ETWEEN these steps there
112) were the exhibitionist
interludes with a political
undercurrent; in my case,
chalk-talks at the village
schoolroom blackboard, draw-
your-portrait stands at garden-
parties-for-the-cause, and so
on.
There was one uproarious
occasion when, ostensibly to
raise money for a London
hospital, I was publicly put on
mock trial at the London
School of Economics over a
cartoon entitled “Nursemaids
in the Park.”
I was charged, under the
Government’s new and highly-
contentious Incitement to
Disaffection Bill, with seduc-
ing from his allegiance a young
soldier, who turned out to be
Kingsley Martin, editor of the
“New Statesman and Nation,”
in disguise.
The court, including A. P.
Herbert, Philip Guedalla and
a brilliant “Bar,” succeeded in
having me sentenced to trans-
portation for life to the
National Portrait Gallery.
THE interludes were some-
times grim. At the high-
tide of Mosley’s Blackshirt
movement, when public
opinion was being shocked by
the brutality of his supporters
against dissenters, and even
against those who omitted at
Fascist meetings to “salute
the leader,” I became an
“observer” for a society con-
cerned with popular rights, for
one night only, to attend a
Fascist rally at the Albert
Hall.
I was one of several whose
“observations” were to form
the substance of a report on
the conduct of the meeting, to
be sent to the Home Secretary.
I went. The meeting was
most successful, the Albert
Hall was packed. Sixty per
cent, of the audience looked
like middle-class people who
had come out of curiosity, with
a backing of 30 per cent, of
honest British morons who had
apparently decided that Mosley
represented the British way of
life, and 10 per cent, of paid
bruisers, who would have
bashed anyone for five-
shillings.
Looking across, I saw an
acquaintance of mine, one
who had prided himself on
being an anti-Socialist, clap-
ping his hands off. What the
infatuated ass thought he was
doing there, goodness only
knows.
The hall darkened, Mosley
entered in full limelight with
a bodyguard which trailed
him along the full length of
the hall between two lines of
his troops all with hands out-
stretched in salute, the bands
playing crescendo, the audience
(excepting me) saluting, too ...
Hooray! Hooray! Hail, the
Leader! It occurred to me
that what I had seen at the
meetings of Father Coughlin
and Father Divine in New
GEORGE ROBERTSON
(The original Bulletin caricature
today hangs in the Angus and
Robertson picture-gallery. Co-
founder —with David Angus —
George Robertson launched
and developed the firm’s pub-
lishing policy of priority to
Australian work.)
York was not so un-British,
after all.
Mosley spoke effectively at
great length. Delivery excel-
lent, matter reckless.
Interruptions began, but no
dissenting voice got beyond
half-a-dozen sentences before
three or four bullies almost
literally jumped on him, bashed
him and lugged him out. Two
such incidents happened near
me. An honest-looking blue-
eyed student-type rose and
shouted indignantly: “Hitler
means war! ” whereupon he
was given the complete treat-
ment.
I took copious notes of this
damnable outrage to British
liberty and shook the dust of
such brutal foolery from my
feet.
MOSLEY had begun as an
imitator of Mussolini,
and neither of them had
thought of using Jew-baiting
until Hitler came along. But
Hitler so identified Nazism
with anti-Semitism as to make
it an article of faith for up-to-
the-minute would-be dictators.
The call of race-hate brought
immediate results as a means
of increasing and consolidat-
ing Mosley’s following, and
once again anti-Semitism be-
came an active element in
British politics.
Hating people because of
their race was to me as childish
as hating people because they
had blue eyes or curly hair.
In general I found Jews like
anybody else, good, bad and
indifferent. All the same, I
decided, a spreading social
movement was not to be dis-
missed without even a glance
to see what it was made of.
Although in my lifetime I
had observed various forms
of aberration, I had never
looked closely at a race-hater.
Choosing from among many
anti-Semitic importuning, I
answered four correspondents
who seemed comparatively
rational, in terms calculated to
draw out a more detailed
exposition of charge and
evidence. Nothing intellectual,
just sensible.
Unfortunately, out of the
resulting rather mad corres-
pondence came little illumina-
tion. Plenty of individual
instances, but nothing ethno-
logical that was not sheer
bunkum. Flat assertions to
which the answers were so
obvious that I did not trouble
to make them.
One man who wrote to me
in sedate terms, presenting a
formidable indictment on note-
paper with the heading of a
very respectable club, I invited
to tea at the National Liberal
Club, to tell me quietly why
the Jews were worse than other
people.
He- proved to be a pretty
ordinary-looking chap, bald,
eyes disappearing into his
head, glasses, a flat voice.
Right away he began about
the Protocols of Zion.
“Look,” I said, “supposing
we skip the old P.o.Z. One of
your friends and I just cleared
that one up. Tell me about the
thousands of secret Jewish spies
pouring into Britain.”
He had already put me to a
lot of trouble Investigating a
story he had sent me about the
landing of two-thousand Jew-
on given dates at Southamp
ton. His brother had actuallv
seen them disembark. The
official view, however, wa-
that it was six-hundred Czechs
and that this chap’s brother
not only couldn’t count but
evidently couldn’t tell a Jew
from a Slav.
He gave me the story again
with all the trimmings.
“Official records don’t tally
with your story," I said.
“There are plenty of Jews
in the civil service to doctor
the records," he replied.
“You think your brother
would know a Jew when he
saw one?” I asked.
“You can always tell them,"
he said.
“Look,” I said, “there are
two Jews sitting in this room
right now. Point ’em out to
me.”
He pointed out the club’s
most distinguished Scotsman
and a Welsh divine in mufti.
HE passed to his sweeping
assertion that Jews were
bad citizens.
"Well, now, that should be
capable of proof,” I said.
“Criminal records, I suppose.
What have you got?”
He passed that over and went
on to tell me that 95 per cent,
of the brothels in Berlin were
run by Jews.
“Now, that’s very interest-
ing,” I said. “So neat. From
what police-files did you get
that figure?”
“You don’t get figures like
that from police-files,” he
replied.
“Well, where did you get
them?” I asked. “You have
reliable friends who checked-
up? Am I to assume that you
went around yourself?"
He was insulted.
“I am not accustomed to
having my word doubted,” says
he, trembling.
“You are trying to convince
me without evidence," says I.
“I can’t condemn a whole
people on your say-so."
“I could never convince
you,” says he, “because you
are a Jew.”
His voice throbbed with
passion. I looked into his eye
and caught a glint of red mad-
ness. The poor chap was per-
fectly sincere. I had never
seen so clear a case of pre-
conceived idea coloring all
associated thoughts.
(To be continued next week )


anthology to be first printed in this
paper, one is forced to face, as a
judgment, what was before one’s
casual contention—that the distinguish-
ing Australian characteristic is irony,
sardonicism; some form of literary
biting, anyway and to wonder
whether that is a good idea, or whether
one should have procured some other
characteristic.
But, of course, that last is vanity. As
the many in “The Bulletin” building
who have read short-stories will say,
there is no difficulty in picking first-
class stories—it’s the “borderliners”
that give you the trouble; nor can you
pick this first-class story and not that;
you grab anything first-class on sight.
Still, it is a curious thing that
although the Australian reader laps-up
syndicated love-stories in our glossy-
paper magazines, the Australian writer
doesn’t write them. In this anthology,
for instance, love means to Vance
Palmer a mordant moment when a
trooper having an affair with a black
girl gets shot in the pants; to Judith
Wright the casual affair of a young
lad with a lonely woman on a vineyard;
to David Campbell the anguish of a
young husband brought to realise that
the baby is not his; to Lyndall Hadow
the discovery that the sedate Govern-
ment Resident’s lady is his black house-
keeper; to Ethel Anderson the farewell
of a ghost to his remarried wife . . .
And then again, although the love of
the Australian reader for detective-
stories rivals his interest in beer, Aus-
tralian writers do not write detective-
stories —or only very bad ones:
fortunately you do not know how bad.
In general, the Australian writer can
give you a scene or a person as well as
any writer in the world, but to alter
them a little so that they fit into a
story with a beginning, a middle, a
turn, a combat-of-wills and an end—
no; that would be fiction; that would be
living a lie! And so, indeed, irony or
sardonicism is the main characteristic
of our writers. It has changed a little
since World War 11.
Before that it was the irony of the
Hopeless End, the Black Future, the
Meaninglessness of Life; today it is
a smiling irony of acceptance, or a
sarcasm of profound insight, as in
E. O. Schlunke’s short-story “Alfred,”
with its uncanny and deadly diagnosis
of what goes on in the head of that
dear little orphan child, or the sharp,
hard etching of a houseful of women as
in David Rowbotham’s “Chiming
Doorbell,” or the brilliant analysis,
draped in verbal gusto, of an imitative
halfcaste in Hal Porter’s “Everleigh’s
Accent,” or the terrible farce, so care-
fully worked-out, of John Morrison’s
“The Battle of Flowers,” in which two
sisters and their gardeners advance
from rivalry to war and the ruination
of their prize gardens—very properly
called an allegory on the jacket, but
an allegory of what it would be hard
to say.
Against this sombre background
Mena Abdullah makes her debut, to
the accompaniment of Ray Mathew,
playing English prose as with an exotic
violin into a lyric for whose effect, as
with the effects of the finest of
violinists, it is impossible to account.
Perhaps it is a trick of perfect phras-
ing; take the first two sentences: —
The whole day—the trip to town,
the nigger word, the singing kettle
—was because of the ruzilla. It had
flown away.
Two other newcomers to this
anthology venture a similar joy in life;
Thelma Forshaw, with her gay picture
of a Viennese family in a Sydney milk-
bar; and Clive Morton, with his won-
derful Queensland kids, the best comic
kids seen in Australia since Norman
Lindsay’s “Saturdee”; in this category
also are Gavin Casey, in his best vein
of humor with “The New Australian
Dog”; and also, for all its grimness of
subject, the clear, salt-water picture of
a wreck, “The Promise,” by R. S.
Porteous.
Mrs. Drake-Brockman has put
together a good book. One has seen
it reviewed as representing a poor two-
years, but if the stories by Mena
Abdullah, Hal Porter, David Campbell,
Ethel Anderson, John Morrison and
E. O. Schlunke, any of which would
stand out in a lesser collection, repre-
sent a bad season, then a good season
would be better than any Australia has
had so far.
R. McC.
Nancy Wake
Russell Braddon’s Nancy Wake, the
Story of a Very Brave Woman (Cas-
sell), is enough to scare anyone out of
the bravery business. Nurse in an Aus-
tralian lunatic-asylum at 18, journalist
in Paris at 22, married in 1939 to Henri
Fiocca, a Marseilles businessman, she
might have settled into the plush life
of a French society-woman but for the
French defeat, which drew her by
degrees into organising the escape of
British airmen from Marseilles and,
when things grew too hot, her own
escape; and then made her into a
British agent, parachuted into France
to take command of an army of
Resistance fighters, some seven
thousand men, whom she helped to
manoeuvre against, at one time,
22,000 S.S. troops.
What impresses the reader is not so
much the picture of a woman organis-
ing a battle, or car-driving with German
planes machine-gunning the road, or
screaming at young French lads unused
to fire in an ambush “every foul oath
she had ever heard in the days of her
blackmarketing in Marseilles, when
Henri had taught her the correct
responses to the vile abuse of market-
traders,” or raiding German Gestapo
headquarters in Montlucon at midday,
or walking among bullets at the bridge
when 300 Maquisards took that town
from 3000 Germans and held it for
three days, or even cracking a German
sentry’s neck as she had been taught in
the British commando - course when
they went to sabotage a factory.
The bravery of the secret agent is a
colder, more delicate matter, as when
Madame Sainson, giving a group of
American escapees an airing on the
beach at Marseilles, had three Italian
Garrison troops pose at the back of
the group for a snapshot; and it is some
of Nancy Wake’s earlier adventures in
Marseilles, when the Germans hadl
christened her “The White Mouse”
although they didn’t know who she
was, that the blood runs cold ; for
instance, when she was shepherding four
escapees by bus and train, and at the
same time carrying a blackmarket pig-
let in a suitcase. Having at one point
left the bus and ski’d across-country to
avoid a German check-point, and
having rejoined the bus, and got aboard
the train, the four men she had helped
escape being in another, compartment,
she struck up a conversation "with a
German in her own compartment who,
for all she knew, might have been a
Gestapo-officer, to such effect that she
was able to make him carry her bag,
with the illegal pig, along the station
at Marseilles and up to the Customs-
officer. Sure enough, the German
produced a Gestapo-card and walked
through the barrier, bag unopened.
To do such a thing once would be
something for an ordinary man to talk
of for the rest of his life; but Nancy
Wake was doing it constantly, and it is
no wonder that her husband decided
it was time she left France herself.
Curiously enough, as she was about to
escape, she was arrested as one of a
trainload and taken to Toulouse, where
the Vichy police beat her up, although
they had no idea who she was, and
tried to pin on her the blowing-up of a
Toulouse picture-show. From this she
was saved only by the effrontery of the
British agent O’Leary, who demanded
to see the Commissaire, told him Mrs.
Nancy Fiocca was his lover, mentioned
that he was a friend of Laval’s and,
when they said they would ring Laval,
shouted that they couldn’t do it because
Laval had gone to Paris and wouldn’t
be back for weeks. To have the poise
to make so thin a story stick is bravery
raised to the level of art; and beside
it the dangerous escape that follows,


across the Pyrenees into Spain, is almost
a picnic.
• t^ 1 \ has made a smooth
job of what, from remarks he drops
here and there, seems to have been a
dilhcult assignment—Nancy Wake is
obvicusly not a born collaborator.
His detailed reconstructions of scenes
and actions are very satisfying. There
is a and a set of illustrations very
much to the point.
Reviewed Briefly
My Two Worlds: Nora Wydenbruck
K (Longmans). The autobiography of an
w US 5 a «r C0 T untess: Vienna before
World War I, the financial crash of
the 1920 s; poverty in London, where
Countess Wydenbruck still remains of
£ en ~ nencc that she is able to write
\ A SH?* ? s “ Tom -” She has
translated Rilke into English and Eliot
into German. A quiet, simple, bookish
sort of book.
* * * *
The Birth of Rowland; An exchange
of letters in 1865 between Robert
Lytton and his wife, edited by Lady
Emily Lutyens (Hart-Davis). Robert
Lytton who wrote under the name of
fy vcn Meredith and became viceroy
;Ol India, was the son of Bulwer
Lytton. During 1865 he was first-
secretary in the British Legation at
asbon; his wife had returned to
London for the birth of their first child,
it here is a little Portuguese scenery in
|ne book; quite a few celebrities,
i eluding glimpses of Browning; but
e leal charm of it is the exchange
love-letters which are ve?v
tanning indeed.
* * * *
Mortal Pageant: Johan Fabricius
[einemann). The rather overworked
nod of the 1347 Great Plague year
Italy is the setting for this corn-
tent historical romance. A wealthv
:rchant of Florence takes his
vants and friends to his summer
ate m the hills to escape the plague,
t intrigue, jealousy and death
sue them there inevitably Not
ch new here, but the characters
c individuality and the background
convincing. 6
* * * *
tote of Sand: Lawrence Morgan
, Mr - Morgan, previously
author of a book about a farm in
les has been studying the dancing-
; of the Ouled Nail in the wastes
oases ol the northern Sahara,
se girls, at the age of twelve or
een, leave their parents’ tents for
villages of the oases, where they
their dowries by dancing and
table love - affairs; thereafter
ng down as respectable married
women and. in due season, sending
them own daughters to the oases. Mr.
organ describes their lives intimately,
conveying a general impression that
they are charming, not altogether
squalid, and hard as Nails.
*'* * *
Canaris: K. H. Abshagen (Hutchin-
son). Ihe story of Admiral Canaris,
head of Germany’s military intelligence
who was executed by Hitler for his
complicity in the 1944 bomb-plot. It
Js a pro-Canaris book, conflicting wit]
some other pictures of the man; rathe
diy and factual, but, like all the
accounts of Nazi intrigue and brutality,
a fascinating, repellent and moving
revelation ,• of the depths to which
modern man can sink . . . “Several
other prisoners were assembled there.
Jne harsh, reviling voices of the SS
men cut through the silence. Then a
sharp word of command. ‘Strip.’ A
sure sign that the prisoners were to be
hurried off to execution. The SS
‘March.’”" the ' r ViCt ‘ mS naked '
* * * *
ioai n ln^- C m, | ,onvvta,fh and Empire,
1901-1955: Paul Knaplund (Hamilton).
History by a Norwegian-born U.S.
professor who has specialised in British
history. The theory behind it is that
tne partial disintegration of the
Empire and its replacement by the
Commonwealth was “an inevitable
result of the transplantation of British
institutions ; and for the future with
a warning of a possible Japanese
resurgence, the belief that “the new
nations which are taking shape within
the British Empire are cast in a British
mould. Herein lies the most valid
assurance of their future success ”
Apart from minor errors—Sir Apirana
Ngata is printed “Ngato”—it is
generally accurate and well balanced-
a plain, compact and useful summary*
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 427
1 Ti Across
| i'*h= o cS,£m d mliL°o: , 7 ) u ' lc SUch " u ' rdorous ,andl »' ds
f KSsness dlr n) 0 ” Wl ' ich is a Parent “use of
9—Enome. (7)
10 -Way to regret. (3)
11- A stickler is likely to introduce the French by gum! (7)
12 Talk where a beard may grown
on a humorist. (7)
13— German playwright who rings the
bell. (6)
14— Mrs Horan changed the spiral
fossil a woolgrower fleeced. (8)
1 / A,- J? aii - co acn driver may sound
io o . H ro P e ap n'ver's prickle. (8)
Spanish parliament causes a set-
n-s an oil-company. (6)
22 Mothers broken vacuum-flask of
. , a famous brand. (7)
o fnTo° k b e ed WhiC ( h 7) PlltS a man
26 —The kings according to the
Italian dudgeon. (3)
il Fiuit sure to change forms. (7)
28 (7) mai U f ° r a dci ‘ ensive force.
29—Kindergarten equipment walking
I like a very young user thereof is
a constant cause of error. (9, 5)
. . Down •
1—Cracks these fellows. (5)
2 ~X rU i t Siyen first if Leslie may
be fired. (3-6)
3 Outwit the French current which
is small and slow. (7)
4-Gavc a dirty look because the
side' mi (6) St j ° inS the shelt ered
5-—Corporations. (7)
>—Restore the newness of a French
boy opposite to East. (5)
A middlemen which are
used m detecting the presence of
other chemicals. (8)
~ A G erma n river to kiss and
cuddle a Moabite city. (6)
Constable refers to that section
ot a newspaper responsible for
race predictions. (8)
15— Cheaply dismissed from the office
15 of a brace. (3, 3,3)
16— Goddess as an alderman has a
critical time. (6)
™~~? orin ? dr ollls °n the tom-tom. (7)
society bid at auction? (3, 4)
21—O Neill character who cometh
into the cinema. (6)
therefore the tea-plant pest.
25—Get on the trail of the tea-
stretcher. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 426


in home lighting
WITH A BATTERY THATS
YEARS AHEAP OF
ANY OTHER IN AUSTRALIA
Century engineers, workmg elosely marvel-
battery laboratories m l .h.A., i>rmg
lows new homeligliting Battery.
PERFORM ANCE.
tool AT THESE DYNAMIC FEATURES. KD OTHER BATTERY HAS THEM:
*ts,«l ‘S
WITH MAXIMUM EFFICIENCY,
PREVENTS GRID CORROSION.
ONLY CENTURY HOMELIGHT-
ST BATTERIES CONTAIN
lILV'UM.
transparent polystyrene
CONTAIN 6 * • • • ' ,O ! J c
the acid :l#v«l at a glance.
inbuilt gravity ball indica-
tors show cnaicjc
AT ALL TIMES. No morf me»»
hvdrcmeter.
GLASS INSULATION -
twined power dunng the »*>'
TERY'S entire life.
THfSt ARE THE POWERFUL REASONS WHY CENTURY
,"l*\ "l. l*TT««t WITH A BULLETPROOF
THREE YEARS' GUARANTEE
4tlW
A .HV the IIST . . . «UY CENTURY!
DEMAND THE iEST . . . »UT THE UST
JtIVIUM - hr *" C *"' ' ,UCK <r *' ' '
. wtr „. <**,„ JSSTSToZ tefflg:
S) i ? 5. ,i si2 w « a.ui»o
iIISIHrS fBSWSKy*^
*
m
mm
c
(ill Alt ANT 1:1:1)
Til 111: I: YI.AIIS
im.
These three graHty ba\\
indicators — v»hifc, •*<*
and green—ar4 ciear'V
visible tbiougb jne trans-
parent polystyfne con-
tainer. Their I floating
position shows! instantly
the Battery s |state of
charge.
get this free booklet
Post this coupon to-day to
CENTURY STORAGE BATTERY CO. LTD..
Box S 2 P.O. Alexandria, N.S.W., for your free
hcmelighting booklet giving complete deta.ls
of this marvellous new battery.
NAME
ADDRESS.
Cwtort's new
?*■»’ v, MiVH;M
