

* lp«*J
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
"The Man in the Big Hat”— page 32
IWednesday, August 7, 1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
CAERNARVON'S ANCIENT WALLS
CAERNARVON’S history is rooted deep in (he long distant past
and lew other towns in Britain can boast ot a continuity of
habitation for over two thousand years,
Evidence of the Roman; invasion of Wales can be seen in the
fort which thev established on the hill above Caernarvon between
the years 75-80 A.D. and which they named Segontium. Fot about
three hundred years a unit of the Roman occupation,army, consisting
of 800 men, was stationed at the fort, and to the local inhabitants
it must have seemed that the enemy occupation would never end.
Following the Norman Conquest of 1066, William the Conqueror
granted North Wales to Hugh Lupus at a rent of £4O per annum.
To secure his possessions, he built several castles across the
country, one of which was at Caernarvon between the years 1088
and 1098. The Norman occupation of Wales, however, ceased
about the end of the 11th century, and Caernarvon was subsequently
administered by the native Welsh princes.
The military importance of Caernarvon was recognised by
Edward I (1272-1307) when he established a great fortress there on
the site of the old Norman castle. In 1284 he granted to Caernarvon
its foundation charter which stipulated that the constable of
the castle was ' also to be mayor of the town, and that the
townsfolk were to elect annually from amongst themselves two
bailiffs to assist the mayor —a custom which was maintained until
1835.
Fortifications were built around the town, and although
Caernarvon has long since, outgrown its encircling walls and towers,
they still remain as outstanding features of this ancient town.
Near the castle is a bronze statpe of the Right Hon. D. Lloyd
<George, which was unveiled by Mr. W. M. Hughes, when Prime
Minister of Australia.
No. 361: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


STORY WRITING &
FREELANCE JOURNALISM
LEARN AT HOME
. . . and EARN
IN YOUR SPARE TIME!
Successful STOTT-Trained Writers contribute
regularly to the press. It will pay YOU to
study with STOTT'S—Australia’s leading
coaches in Authorship.
Mrs. J. Penna earned £7O for Short Stories
whilst still studying her Course. Another
Student earned over £2OO for Acceptances
during six months.
Our Literary Prospectus is sent without
obligation to all interested in Writing.
MAIL THE COUPON TODA Y
ll—Si
ion Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfeii
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without arte obli
gat ion, your Prospectus, and full particulars ol
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 1557) AGE
BOOKItUNTKR, Box 2fi7l, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us fmd it for you-fictioa,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
ANCIENT NEW GUINEA
Evelyn Cheesman has long been
cherished in this reviewer’s memory
for a book with the absurd title of
“Six-legged Snakes in New Guinea” in
which alone and indomitable she strode
that wild country knocking the forests
down to make lanes for her moth-
screens, damming and diverting the
rivers and chopping chunks off the
mountains. If anybody, has left their
mark on New Guinea it is Miss Chees-
man.
And here she is in Things Worth
While (Hutchinson) still magnificently
striding the earth, much of it close to
Australia, racked with malaria, lamed
by her arthritic hip damaged in a
railway accident, but unconcernedly
floating up cliffs never scaled by man
before, being bitten by ants and spiders,
camping alone amongst ghosts, debbil-
debbils, typhoons and mysterious flash-
ing lights, peering into the boiling
craters of volcanoes and, at frequent
intervals being eaten —or very nearly—
by the cannibals of Papua and the New
Hebrides.
This is her autobiography, and first
she is a small girl in Kent wading neck-
high through a patch of nettles because
she was dared to, then being drowned
because she was dared to wade out to
a boat in a pond. She was haunted in
nightmares by the spectre of a duck-
billed platypus (a fearsome animal at
any time) and was also in considerable
peril from her uncle Jim. who —a point
too complicated to explain here—was
an elephant. She had a dog which
caught trout and she kept snails, glow-
worms and cockchafers in her bedroom.
Next she is at a school in Germany,
teaching English to the hapless small
girls of that disciplined country who
started the day’s work at 4 a.ra. and
kept going till long after dark. The
schoolgirls seem to have been too dis-
ciplined to do anything but faint but
small boys from neighboring schools
incessantly committed suicide by hang-
ing or drowning. Miss Cheesman,
devoted to Nature ever since she was
baptised with the nettles and pond-
weed, liked the cart-wheels which Ger-
man peasants put on top of their houses
to attract the storks to nest there;
though if the storks had known what
was to happen to the infant population
it is not to be believed that they would
have nested within a thousand miles of
the place.
Miss Cheesman wanted to be a vet.;
but vets, were not considered ladylike
in those days, presumably because they
would learn the facts of life, so she
became a canine-nurse, which was the
same thing under another name. She
gave pills to bulldogs, noting that “a
bulldog’s throat is such a narrow slit
that giving a pill is like posting a
letter.” She was bitten from time to
time. But she developed a high opinion
of the intelligence of dogs and met
several which perfectly understood
human speech. One. a dachshund, after
hearing its “stupid mistress” announce,
“It's no good, he can’t recover. Mr.
Sewell says he must be destroyed,”
instantly began to howl and kept it up
for two days until he was removed to
a better world. The climax of Miss
Cheesman’s canine career came when
she was asked to console the last hours
of a fox-terrier formerly owned by
King Edward VII. which bore upon its
collar the proud legend, “I am Caesar.
I belong to the King.”
Hopping, as it were, from dogs to
their attendant insects, she took charge
of the Insect House at London Zoo
(where the present reviewer not long
ago had the pleasure of watching, alive
in a cross-section of its tunnel, the
famous funnel-web spider of New South
Wales—why hasn’t Sydney Zoo got
an insect-house?); and there she intro-
duced to Londoners the butterflies,
bi%s and beetles of their own
immediate neighborhood and
also provided such exotic delicacies as
the bird-catching spiders of South
America—which (of course) bit her.
She also learned of a dreadful mistake
which giant centipedes, accustomed to
feed on mice, are liable to make when
exploring a sleeping human.
She found that ants, like dogs,
though perhaps not able to speak
English, were much more intelligent
than the scientists who believe only in
“instinct” will give them credit for. Her
ants were occasionally given a dead
mouse to eat; and once, being
precariously balanced on the edge of
their mound, it rolled into the moat
below when they were tunnelling under
it to take it into their nest. Several
ants were drowned with it and others
were heroically rescued by their com-
patriots. This made such a good show
for the public that the next mouse was
similarly poised precariously above the
moat; but Miss Cheesman’s clever
little friends, to stop another disaster
occurring, dug a ditch beside it so that
it couldn’t roll down.
The next step, naturally, was" to go
off round the world to collect insects
and any other nasty but beautiful
creature that might offer itself. The
snake that Miss Cheesman stunned on
the island of Gorgona, near Colombia,
came to life again in her pocket. It
took her an hour to file her way out
(with a nailfile) from the web of the
bird-catching spider into which she
wandered on the same island. The
curious marine lizards which she
caught on the Galapagos and after-
wards skinned on the ship stank so
much that she had to be very severe
indeed, while seasick herself, to stop the
passengers hurling them overboard.
In the Marquesas, following the goats
up one of her favorite unscalable cliffs,
she fell over a precipice and hung for
some time in mid-air reflecting “They
won’t even find my bones.”
But the only thing wrong with that
trip from Miss Cheesman r s point-of-
view was that, though she collected a
lovely exhibit of earthworms, earwigs
and woodlice from the Tuamotu Atolls,
(Continued on page 58)
A LETTER
By DAVID CAMPBELL.
Dear Maurice, Sure I understand:
You lost your bearings, like you told.
I’d not be reared here, on the land,
And doubt you. Nights are cruel cold
And fogs come sudden. Peaks are clear,
And the next turning, for my life,
I’d not kuow man from fox or hare—
And you were company for the wife.
While writing this, this minute, night,
Near twelve o’clock, against the pane
A moth came tapping in the light;
And snap! a nighthawk drops, as plain
As day, and snaffs him. This, of course,
Is by the way. Sincerely yours . . .


□22U33
BOX 2712 G.P.O. ’PHONE B 0951
“While 1 Live 1 Grow”
TRADE-IN YOUR OLD STOVE
waLSTOM slow combustion cooker & water heater
The famous Wellstood Stove not only cooks abundantly for
a large family but supplies 110 galls, of hot water for the entire
household per day ABSOLUTELY FREE. Convert your pre-
sent H.W. system to a Wellstood NOW. Priced at £ 122/15/-.
Hot Water Storage Cylinder £29. 40 gallon capacity. Easiest Terms.
’Phone and Mail Orders
m
m
mi
.
m
■Amp a a
Hot water tap for wash-
ing-up & kitchen chores.
G-o
Piping hot baths at any
hour of the day or night.
*.©
jxury of running hot
iter in your laundry.
OPEN A BUDGET ACCOUNT AT ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FOR NON-STOP CREDIT.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 7, 1957
Vol. 78—No, 4043
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
•HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathans Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
PROGRESS AND INFLATION
DURING World War II “The
Bulletin,” recognising that military
needs would stimulate many manu-
facturing activities in this country, dis-
cussed Australia’s prospects after the
war under the heading of “A Post-
war Vision Splendid?”
In asking the question and dis-
cussing it it had in mind the develop-
ment that occurred in Australia during
World War I and in the years that
followed it. Oddly enough, this
stimulus to Australian manufacturing
was revived in a number of industries
during the depression of the early
’thirties, when shortage of overseas
funds led to currency-devaluation and
automatic restriction of imports.
As it turned out. World War II did
stimulate Australia into new industrial
activity, but the pattern of the earlier
war and post-war period was not
followed. Political influences had a
strong bearing on economic activity,
and restrictive practices, both at
political and trade-union levels,
hampered the development that one
might have expected in the years
following the war. Then in 1948 the
40-hour week cut the man-hour
potential by 10 p.c. at a time when
commodities were extremely short and
inflation was a disrupting factor in all
productive activities.
To add to industry’s problem,
the burden of war on Australia,
economically, had been much heavier
than during 1914-18. and no English-
speaking country outside the United
Kingdom had to undertake such
heavy tasks in proportion to popula-
tion. But the misfortunes of war were
in no way responsible for the very
slow recdvery in coal production after
the war, or for the fact that the steel
industry was unable to work at full
capacity. They were principally the
result of restrictive trade-union prac-
tices that were aided and abetted by
the “cold war” then particularly
evident in international affairs. In
other words, by the very effective
industrial - sabotage efforts of the
Communists.
A change of Federal Government in
1949 had a salutary effect on the
position. But Federal powers are
limited, and progress has been impeded
where State Governments are doc-
trinaire rather than economic-minded.
Significantly, States where economic
welfare and industrial progress are
given a high priority hdve been the
most progressive since the end of the
war. The outstanding example of this
is South Australia. And since the
Bolte Government took over in Vic-
toria the acceleration of industrial
activity in that State (particularly by
comparison with N.S.W., where there
has been no change in the Labor
Administration for the past 16 years)
has been most marked.
Since the Menzies Government came
into power in 1949 there have been
two principal occasions when restric-
tion has been considered necessary in
national economic affairs. The first
time was in 1951, when taxes were
increased and credit was curtailed.
The second occasion was last year,
when the same sort of method was
resorted to. Each time imports were
restricted, and each time the methods
adopted had counter-inflation as their
principal objective.
In the involved economic methods
available to the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment under the Constitution it has
achieved something by its economic
restrictions, though at the cost of a
good deal of wasted effort and frustra-
tion on the part of private enterprise
and the civil service.
In a period when the population has
grown from just under 7,000.000
(1939) to 9.600.000 (1957), which
represents an increase of about 40 p.c.,
there has been a considerable increase
in our output of basic materials. In
spite of the swing-over to alternative
fuels, coal production has slightly more
than kept pace with the growth in
population, while present output of
steel is two and a half times the 1939
average. This improvement in steel-
making has been a long time coming,
but now that it is under way it is still
going on. Output of lead is much the
same as before World War 11. but zinc
is about 50 p.c. higher, while copper
production has more than doubled.
Cement output is within striking-
distance of being three times as high
as in 1939. and sawn native timber has
doubled. Output of bricks is much the
same as in 1939. but substitute materials
have taken their place—there has been
a great increase in the demand for
fibro-cement sheets, and output of all
types of roofing-tiles, both terra-cotta
and cement, is nearly three times the
1939 average.
The consumption of electricity has
increased phenomenally—by about 250
p.c. Demand for gas has more than
doubled.
In the textile industry most advance
has been made by the cotton and
rayon sections. The woollen and
worsted industries have shown very
little growth over the past 18 years.
There has been great expansion—-
to the point of overexpansion—in the
production of domestic appliances and
electrical goods. There is now a
recession in most of these figures.
Output of foodstuffs, for the most
part, has not been in keeping with
growth in the population, but probably
indicates that exports are lower than
before the war. Beer-consumption is
up 150 p.c., with cigarettes and
tobacco 100 p.c. higher.
Outstanding in the Australian
economic scheme of things has been
the maintenance of the importance of
the wool clip since World War 11. This
has increased by about 50 p.c., but an
export price averaging at least six times
that of the 1939 figure is now being
received for it.
In estimating our progress since the
end of the war 12 years ago the
influence of the wool-cheque in our
economy should not be underestimated.
For the past season it brought in nearly
10 times the average cheque for the
three-year period preceding the out-
break of war, and the big export
income from wool has been a factor in
enabling the community to be supplied
with imported goods that our own
factories have been unable to make.
The wool-cheque, since the end of
war-time marketing, has thus had the
effect of disguising the deficiencies of
some other parts of the economy; and
it can be admitted at once that the
general progress we have achieved in
the past 12 years has been flattered to
that extent.
Summing-up, Australia can say that
it has made considerable post-war
progress, but even now the “vision
splendid” remains a vision, not quite
a reality. Our effort in the task of
production has not been our maximum,
and a good deal of that effort has been
wasted. In matters of transport we
have slipped very badly.
At present we face a prospect of
considerable world economic change,
and as a young country with untapped
natural resources we have another
chance of making good. Industrially
we are more stable than we were a
decade ago. There is more willingness
to work for our prosperity. But there
are still pressures aiming at doing the
national tasks in front of us simply by
“creating credit.” As “The Bulletin”
has warned before, it is one thing to
have progress with some inflation as a
concomitant. But it is another—
disastrous —thing to have inflation
without progress.


THE RETREAT FROM BRISBANE


PLAIN ENGLISH
New Brooms for Queensland
Before counting of votes in the Queens-
land election had gone very far on Satur-
day night it became clear that Labor’s
long reign was over and that a Country-
party-Liberal coalition under Nicklin and
Morris would control the new Parlia-
ment. Their majority will not be as big
as might have been expected in view of
the Labor split, but in the present condi-
tion of the Queensland electoral map and
rolls only a suicide-pact of the sort
engineered between the Gair and Duggan
factions could have given the former
Opposition parties any chance at all.
Counting is still incomplete —in all
Queensland elections the decision in one
or two seats hangs in the balance until
the last boxes come in—but on Monday
the C.P.-Lib. team was leading in 40
seats (24 in the old Parliament), the
A.L.P. in 21 (24) and the Q.L.P. in 11
(25). The two Independents in the old
Parliament retained their seats, but none
of the 18 new freelances was successful;
in three seats, however—Rockhampton,
Keppel and Hinchinbrook —they drew-
off enough votes from the Liberal candi-
date to save the sitting Labor member’s
bacon.
Dr. Evatt’s c'omment on the voting was
that it was a magnificent result for the
A.L.P. on the grounds that his party
had scored two-to-one over the Gair
breakaway party and had won 21 seats to
the Q.L.P.’s 11.
If the Doc. is really satisfied with that
he’s getting very easy to please. His
Federal Labor party threw everything
it had into the tight on Duggan’s side,
yet it lost more than a third of the party’s
voting-strength to Gair. It turned all its
big guns on Gair and his deputy-leader
Walsh. Yet both retained their seats.
On the other hand both Duggan and his
deputy-leader Dittmer look like losing
theirs.
It was obvious that Labor never
expected to win the election. But it did
hope virtually to wipe out the Q.L.P.
The A.L.P. executive was counting on
winning 27-29 seats, and did not expect
the Q.L.P. to hold more than six or
seven.
With Gair and Walsh out of the way,
overtures would probably have been made
to bring these back to the fold, thus form-
ing a strong Opposition in a fairly evenly
divided Parliament. Instead, they wrested
only two seats from the Gairs and lost at
least five of their own to the Opposi-
tion. As a result the A.L.P. will hold no
more than 21 seats in the new House and
the Gair group remains a compact centre-
party of 11,. with a strong possibility of
adding one more at the Gregory by-
election.
Far from being a magnificent result for
Labor, Saturday’s poll was the biggest
defeat the party has suffered since Dr.
Evatt first split it asunder. A little more
of such magnificence and the Doc. will
be without a party.
The victors, Nicklin and Morris, face
a difficult task in taking over the Govern-
ment after 25 years in the wilderness.
Their team will be completely lacking in
administrative experience, and in routine
matters will be largely dependent on
departmental chiefs who have spent most
of their working - lives under Labor
Ministers. They will have to learn as they
go, but in the present state of Queens-
land politics they will probably start-off
with the good wishes even of many of
those who, out of habit, voted against
them on Saturday.
In Defence of Haylen
[From “Ha.v Diet”]
Many people, including the Minister for
External Affairs, have rushed in to
denounce the self-appointed Labor
spokesman, the Federal member for
Parkes, Leslie Haylen, for his attack on
the address by the new U.S. Ambassador
concerning relations with Red China. Let
one voice at least be raised herewith in
Haylen's defence.
Consider first of all the background.
Has Haylen ever been even a Labor
Minister? No. He missed out, to his
great disappointment, under Curtin and
Chidey, in spite of determined efforts to
prove himself a caustic wit. (The effect
of his earnest endeavors to be funny
was summed-up by one Liberal member
of distinction who said, “Whenever
Haylen speaks in the House he seems to
have a dewdrop hanging on the end of
his nose.”) An unfortunate episode when
Haylen was editing a Labor paper called
“The Standard” seems to be still
remembered by people who might other-
wise be impressed by him. Admittedly,
he got a long and expensive tour.abroad
during the Labor regime, looking at
immigration prospects, or something, but
if he ever made a report it has long since
been forgotten. That is enough to make
anyone sour, even one so determined to
shine as a barbed comedian.
Then, above all, there is the desperate
frustration induced by the utter impos-
sibility of Labor reaching office in Can-
berra in the foreseeable future. This has
seriously affected brighter intellects on
the Labor side than Haylen’s, and in
some cases has actually persuaded Labor
members that they can't ever think of
winning while saddled with the Doc.
Haylen is still by the side of the Doc.
(didn't he get the Doc. to endorse his
attack on the Ambassador?), but even
he must be aware by now that the
prospect is hopeless for the party and him-
self. This can’t tend to sweetness of out-
look, and must be offered in part
extenuation of the outburst which has
caused such a stir. In fact, he might be
well termed “Hopeless Haylen,” provided
the adjective was regarded more as a
description of his outlook than of his
attainments.
Another mitigating circumstance is
that Haylen had just returned from a trip
to Peking and adjoining parts, where he
had been convinced that things were much
better, that the Mao regime was hardly a
Communist one, that China’s professions
for peace and goodwill should be accepted
without question. Surely his willingness
to believe all this offers proof of his
Innately guileless nature, his pleasing
readiness to believe what he’s told (from
one side, at any rate), his sympathetic
Outlook so well suited to politics—inter-
national, Australian and Labor-party
alike. ■*
Let us therefore all praise Mr. Haylen
instead of criticising him ; let us show
true understanding of his misfortunes
which perhaps have affected his judg-
ment ; let us seek to free him from the
burdens of Parliamentary representation
which may be proving unduly onerous.
Let us pity rather than blame him. Even
when he does attain some temporary
publicity it doesn't seem to do him much
good. Poor Leslie Haylen!
Overseas Spending
[From Canberra]
The Federal Government has decided to
allow another £2,500,000 to £3,000,000
go out of Australia annually on expendi-
ture other than for imports.
Reapers of the greatest benefit from
the Government’s decision will be
travellers who decide on a jaunt overseas.
Their spending-money which the
Government allows them to take out of
the country is to be stepped up from
£1250 to £1625 in any 12 months, of
which up to £312 10s. can be spent on
private travel in the dollar area.
In addition to this type of increased
overseas expenditure, the Government
will also raise the amount of money
which relatives in Australia can send to
their kin overseas, while currency-restric-
tions on a number of other items, mainly
relating to entertainment, have also been
eased.
Total cost of the relaxations will be
almost £3,000,000 in any 12 months.
The Government's decision follows on
a remarkable trade year, in which Aus-
tralia showed a trading credit with over-
seas countries of about £270 million—•
the best for many years.
It is the second step taken by the
Government in the past few months to
ease the restrictions on money leaving
the country.
Earlier this year the Government eased
import-restrictions to the tune of about
£75 million a year.
Millions for Auld Clang Syne
One of the blessings Melburnians will
enjoy from the current high prosperity
is the gradual elimination of the
tramway-system. The boom has enabled
so many to buy small cars and escape
from the wretchedly packed trams, or to
become independent of poor services,
that the system has run at a £l-million
loss in the last year, and is currently
heading into a greater deficit.
It is characteristic- of official thinking
that the announcement of the Tramways
Board's defeat by a hitherto impotent (for
economic reasons) public was made by
chairman Risson on the ground that
tramways now cost £120,000 a mile to


build. ; It is not the public’s manifest
dislike of the street-railways that has
brought about the change after 31 years.
In that time successive chairmen and
boards have clanged various Govern-
ments off the road. Country-party Gov-
ernments have been indifferent; Labor
Governments have been ready allies in
any tramways expenditure at the dictate
of unions with vested interests in trams ;
and Liberal Governments, despite
promises to overhaul Melbourne’s
passenger road-transport, have weakly
fallen, in time, into the Tramways Board
groove.
The dominance of successive Govern-
ments by the board is illustrated by its
ability to get a £90,000 Latrobe-street
connection, on which only a few trams
run daily, and the electrification of the
Bourke-street line to Northcote, at a cost
of £2| million, effected since the war,
a period in which all Governments have
been aware that the days of street-
railways has passed.
Risson estimates the tramways assets
at £3O million, all built-up since the
middle-’twenties, when electrification
began because private buses were taking
much of the 15-m.p.h. cable-trams’ loads.
This amount could have provided the
city with the tube-railway traffic
authorities now admit is the only
permanent solution to the mass-movement
of citizens through the city at peak-
hours.
The tramway story in Melbourne is a
salutary lesson on the expensiveness of
the pusillanimity of Governments under
the thumb of a public-service authority
itself committed to a “policy.”
Australia as Atomic Leader
[ From Canberra]
Because it is the most advanced country
in atomic-energy techniques either in
South-east Asia or this part of the
Pacific, Australia has been nominated as
a member of the first Board of Governors
of the International Atomic Energy
Agency.
The board will be elected after the
first meeting of the general conference
of the agency, to be held in Vienna in
October.
The Minister for National Develop-
ment, Senator Spooner, during the week
revealed that Australia, along with
other countries, had deposited its
instrument-of-ratification for the agree-
ment setting-up the international agency.
That Australia is in the forefront in
the atomic-energy field is in no small
measure due to work being done not only
by the Government, but by universities
throughout the country.
Already, as a result of this work,
Australia has been able to supply over-
seas countries with information as to the
best methods of treating certain types of
uranium-ore.
The application of atomic energy is a
most complex technical matter, and it
promises little benefit to underdeveloped
countries unless they have access to
technical information, special materials
and sound advice on the most efficient
means of meeting their problems.
This is where the International Atomic
Energy Agency comes in.
The agency’s function will be to
organise the exchange of information,
advice and materials, but it won’t be
done on any charitable basis.
The agency will impose a “reasonable”
scale of charges with which the contri-
buting nations will be reimbursed.
Australia expects to be in the forefront
of the contributors as a result of inten-
sive research being undertaken here.
As Senator Spooner says, atomic energy
must be used for peaceful means because
there will not be sufficient conventional
power resources to meet future needs.
He said: “There is a rapidly multi-
plying world demand for power. Coal,
hydroelectricity, and other conventional
sources will not suffice to meet it
economically over the coming decades.
However, unless it can be met, indus-
trial expansion could be choked in
advanced countries, and underdeveloped
countries could be condemned to low and
even falling standards of living.”
The challenge is there for Australia and
all other nuclear-minded countries to see
that this demand for power is met.
Killarney
[From “O’Hoots”]
It's a bit late to stop Killarney
being sold to an American syndicate,
for the deed has been done;
but, begorrah (which I never heard any
Irishman saying), if I don’t protest I’ll
burst; so here goes.
It’s the greatest injustice and sorrow
to Ireland since Cromwell.
It’s not to be believed by those who
haven’t lately seen the place how the
Americans have destroyed the entire con-
tinent of Europe. They saved it, true.
But why did they have to trade with it?
Why do they have to plaster it from one
end to the other with their horrible
hoardings advertising soap and Coca-
Cola?
I thought I had touched bottom when
I got to the Coliseum in Rome, tier upon
tier of ancient hallowed stone, the glory
of the Caesars, the playground of the
Citizens, the bane of the gladiators and
the Christians, and there met a man
with a Coca-Cola stand. But I had yet
to see Venice, and the monstrous soap-
advertisement plastered on a bridge
across the Grand Canal, dwarfing the
palaces of the Doges and reflected in the
waters where Byron was rowed to his
lady-loves.
It is not to be believed, again, how all
over Europe everybody sets out to rob
you; or, rather, 1 suppose it is to be
believed, because we “cater for tourists”
ourselves.
But in Ireland there are no hoardings ;
no Coca-Cola ; no soap at all, I trust.
And nobody robs you.
Well, a little in Dublin, perhaps;
where, as I was warned, “they see you
coming.” But five miles out of Dublin
in the Wicklow Mountains my hotel-bill
was half what I expected it to be. When
I asked to have a thermos filled at a road-
side cafe and offered to pay, the woman
said “What? Charge ye for wather!”;
and when I left Mrs. Fitzgerald's hotel in
Sneam, instead of my tipping everybody
right and left—though I did give the
orphan-boy two-bob to help him buy his
pair of boots—Mrs. Fitzgerald gave me
a bottle of Jamieson’s.
And now is it all to be commercialised,
vulgarised, ruined entirely?
The only thing that consoles me a trifle
is that Killarney, given over to the tourist,
was pretty well lost anyway. Over-
crowded, filled with hilarious asses in
jaunting-cars going off to see the lakes,
every second house a guesthouse. It was
as bad as Katoomba.
I took one look at it and shot over the
mountains to Sneam, where there was
nothing but the geese in the village-
square, and the boy with the donkey-cart,
and the mighty salmon waiting for a
fresh under the stone-bridge, and the tiny
white beach where the coral washes in on
the Gulf Stream, and the priest who
caught the sea-trout, and the admirable
Mrs. Fitzgerald and her Jamieson’s.
But even Killarney was cheap, kindly
and free from soap and plumbing. It
may be that the syndicate, being Irish-
Americans, won’t ruin it any more than
it is already ruined. And it may be that
they will. I can only say the O’Hootses
are watching them.
Subsidy for Cool Exports!
A suggestion made periodically by
officials of the Miners’ Federation that
the Federal Government should subsi-
dise coal exports is about as impudent as
anything could be.
The federation has resisted mechanisa-
tion to the limit, has struck against it in
specific cases, and has thinned-down the
working-week till it is only the ghost of
a working-week. The Seamen’s Union
and the wharfies have chimed-in with
their contributions. Vessels which put
into Newcastle for overhaul or merely for
trade do so at their own peril. They will
get away when it pleases the unions and
at a cost to satisfy the unions.
The State does its part. It has left
Newcastle port under the control of a
multiplicity of authorities, has denied it
modern coal-loading plant, has kowtowed
to every union whim and has connived
in making the northern coal-
fields the home of loaf and inefficiency
and out-of-dateness. Latterly it has
wakened-up a little in the light of the
knowledge that Gladstone, in Queens-
land, through the installation of modern
coal-loading, has, though several hundred
miles further away from the market,
been pinching N. S. Wales’ trade.
The average price of coal at the
colliery-month, free on rail, for 1954-55,
was 595. sd. a ton, and the worth of a
year’s production at the colliery-mouth
was £43-million odd ; the £l6| million
collected by the State in royalties adds
about 225. Id. to this by the time it is
f.o.b. Newcastle —a few miles away.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
FRANTIC cries of “My purse! My
purse!” from an alighting passenger
halted a Perth bus until, from a forest of
arms groping around floor and under
seats, emerged Mum’s darling little Perce.
—“Bagot.”
* ❖ ❖
“Sparks”: Few legal documents are
more tiresome, solemn and full of com-
plicated redundant verbiage than a last
will and testament drawn up by a solicitor
or trustee company. After years of
struggling with these documents in the
probate stage, I appreciated the will of a
Brisbane butcher who managed without
legal aid. Bequeathing his estate to his two
children, he concluded the document with
the words: “So here’s good hunting.
Remember, everything is to be shared
equally, and no arguments. Hoorah!”
The will was written a month before his
death, and it is impossible not to admire
the spirit in which he discarded the gloom
usually associated with will-making.
<s► ❖ *
“Bug”: Scorfield's stork (B. 17/7/’57)
would be overworked if it were possible
to exchange babies. I’m thinking of all
the very new mothers who, on being told
the sex of the child, say blearily “Are
you sure you haven't made a mistake,
Doctor?”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Greenways”: Like Vivien Leigh, I
was once for a brief moment the focus
of all eyes in the Mother of Parliaments,
though my performance was given not in
the Lords, but in the Visitors’ Gallery of
the House of Commons. Listening to
Question Time, I decided to jot down the
names of members who spoke, to include
in my next letter home. I had hardly
placed pencil to paper, when the serjeant-
at-arms appeared and escorted me from
the chamber. I didn’t know that writing
of any description by visitors was
absolutely forbidden.
♦:« *:♦
“Femin”: Assessing the cash-value of
wives (B. 17/7/’57), they seem to come
dear in Horsham (Vic.). A bachelor
speaker in a club debate —“Wife, an
Asset or Liability?”—maintained that the
cost (in his estimation, £7000) of court-
ing, marrying and providing a home made
a wife a decided liability.
“J.J.A.”: Footnote to the value of a
wife at £3900. Some years back a
Dunolly (Vic.) man bought his wife for
a bag of flour. That was before the days
of inflation.
* * ❖
“Fell Maken”: I’d nominate “defi-
nitely” as the favorite word among Aus-
tralians today. And yet, how indefinite
most of us are! Just go around asking
a few direct questions, and see how few
times you get “Yes” or “No” for an
answer. You’ll get “I think so,”
“Probably,” “Maybe,” instead of “Yes,”
and “Oh, I don’t know,” instead of “No.”
In conversation people will say “Joe was
telling me,” instead of “Joe told me,” or
“Mary was saying,” instead of “Mary
said.” Yes, we're definitely not definite
in our speech, whatever our opinions may
be.
❖ *>
/‘A.O'K.”: “Tom Trout” (B. 26/6/’57)
on the modes of locomotion of Con-
tinental clergy reminds me that the
customs of the religious in Europe differ
somewhat from ours. A common sight in
Austria is to see nuns working in the
fields wearing heavy, men’s boots and
with their habits hitched about their
knees. I’ve seen them riding on haycarts,
trundling wheelbarrows, and herding
cows. The most amusing sight was to see
a good Sister late one afternoon, pitch-
fork in hand, leaning through the window
of an inn. Whether she was merely
having a conversation with someone
inside or indulging in a well-earned glass
of the famous Gosser beer, I have always
been sorry I never found out.
“Apemantus”: Played with pepped-up
jalopies and just for fun, there’s no
future for the game of “Chicken!” It
won’t draw the crowds and the cash until
it’s cleared of amateurism and organised
as a spectator-sport for professionals
mounted on mobile power-saws.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Becks”: After the suburban doctor
had sent the sixth little girl off to hospital
for observation as a suspected appendi-
citis case he began to doubt his diagnosis;
appendicitis doesn’t usually come in
epidemic form. Further investigation
revealed the real trouble. Hoops! The
latest craze of keeping cane-hoops revolv-
ing by wriggling the hips had exercised
hitherto unused stomach-muscles. Result:
tummy-aches.
<* ❖ *
“Sparks”: According to a Brisbane
daily, one of the ultra-modern features of
a new luxury car is a “foot-operated
hand-brake.” It had me puzzled for a
while, and then I woke up! The idea is to
leave the hand free to operate the hand-
operated foot-brake which will undoubt-
edly be a feature of next year’s model.
♦> ♦> *>
“Sunray”: The letter began “Dear Sir,
I wish to point out a typical error in your
letter of . . .” On looking through the
files 1 found the writer was probably
right as I dredged up these:
Appropo of your communication ... He
was oft' work with optical sepsis of the
retinue ... A donation was made to the
British Emporium Bible Society . . . Give
details of insurance of swelling and
contents . . . Wheat-crops were patchy this
season, but there was a good crop of
ohts . . . Do you want us to hold these
dentures in safe custody? . . . This scheme
appears sound, but has an Archiles heal . . .
The shortage of potatoes last year was due
to the climactic conditions . . . Small attend-
ances can have a determental effect on the
business . . . This account has been virtu-
ously closed since July 31 . . . The year
under revue ...
Which all goes to show that what we
need in offices is not more dictionaries
but typewriters that can spell!
♦j+ +s►
Gordon Thomas: Not that it matters
much, but just to keep the record straight,
the good ship Vendetta (B. 3/7/’57) did
not collect me with the “28 Allied
prisoners-of-war” on September 6, 1945,
as the story suggests. As civilian inter-
nees we were kept separate from p.-0.-w.
It was on September 13 that the first Aus-
tralians, under Major Charlie Bates, of
A.N.G.A.U., contacted us in the Sacred
Heart Mission concentration-camp at
Ramale, inland from Kokopo, where
the four of us had been placed on


August 19, after release from the Jap
Tunnel Town at Namari. Arriving in
Rabaul, we enjoyed our first whisky for
three-and-a-half years at the headquarters
of Major-General Eather. In the
mission-camp at Ramale there were 327
internees of varying color and nationali-
ties, including 38 priests (also Bishop
Scharmach), 28 Brothers, 74 European
Sisters, sundry seminaries, schoolboys,
half-castes and a few European planters,
not forgetting Anglican Padre James
Benson, of Gona (since deceased). Let
me add to “Old Crab’s” remarks (B.
24/7/’57) that John Murphy is now
District Commissioner at Daru, in the
Western Divison of Papua.
♦j* .*♦
“R. Jay”: I’m puzzled at the mention
(B. 24/7/’57) of Rolls Royce, Ltd., and
their “backlog” of orders. What has an
accumulation of orders unfilled to do
with an open fire and its backlog? Supply
lags behind demand —there is a back-
lag. Then, why not "backlag”?
❖ ❖ *
“Lyle”: What Old Sydneians think of
their school has been strikingly shown by
the amount collected from “old boys” for
Sydney Grammar’s centenary appeal. In
10 weeks’ canvassing about £102,000 was
gathered-in. Two-hundred “old boys”
visited all former pupils in the Sydney
metropolitan area, in the course of the
campaign. The organising director claims
that no other Australian school has
raised so much money in so short a time
by an appeal confined to former pupils.
Before the end of this year, it is hoped
to raise at least another £lOO,OOO from
“old boys” and friends in N.S.W. rural
areas and in other States.
❖ *>
“X.C.”: Any list of famous buglers
must include the Mascot wonder of 1942.
People living in the vicinity of the race-
course when it was occupied by an A.M.F.
Labor Company (Australia’s own
Foreign Legion) were frequently startled
by loud and inexplicable noises issuing
from somewhere in the stands. The com-
pany consisted of about 20 nationalities,
but only one elderly gent, claimed any
knowledge of the art of bugling. For
“Reveille” he used his trumpet to blow
a Macedonian funeral-march lasting at
least five minutes, and it was obvious he
loved every minute of it. Similar per-
formances took place on other official
or unofficial occasions. Visiting brass
heard one performance through the
the orderly-room window and asked what
the fellow was practising. He wasn’t
practising at all. He was rendering his
own version of “Retreat.”
“Kenyas”: The headmaster’s wife was
showing a visitor round the school. She
pointed out a medieval-looking throne-
like chair in the Assembly Hall.
“Nobody but the headmaster has ever sat
there,” she announced importantly. I
couldn't resist a grin as 1 thought of the
dozens of small boys I’d rooted-out of
that seat of learning.
“Plebus”: Our growing awareness of
world-politics was demonstrated after an
equestrian victory over pre-atomic forces
when a runaway baker’s horse manceuvred
a staff-car carrying Brasshats into
collision with a Randwick tram-standard.
The coup-de-grace was administered when
the ex-Digger bakerman arrived. Sur-
veying the embarrassed officers standing
amid his scattered loaves he asked.
“What’s Seato up to now, mates —
starting a canteen?”
<s• *> •!*
“P.E.8.”: Snigger- words (B.
10/7,/’57)? Take the dictionary of any
7th-grader in my school and out of it will
drop a length of paper which the owner
will claim is a letter in secret code. “1-3,
5-9, 4-6, 37-18,” etc. Ask him to decode
it for you and he’ll tell you he's lost the
master-copy. You can save him the
trouble by asking for his dictionary. With
a red face, realising the game is up, he’ll
produce it. Yes—all the snigger- words
in the book. Copies are highly sought-
after by 6th-graders coming up each year.
■£+
“Eureka”: Said the radio-commen-
tator: “In the background you can hear
the noise of the musicians.” I listened
a while. He was right.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Anley”: Tell “Warick” (B. 26/6/’57)
that there is another Brisbane —in Cali-
fornia, U.S.A. So many American letters
were being misdirected there that the post-
master (or whatever he is called in the
States) thought it worth while getting a
rubber-stamp made to mark them “Mis-
sent to Brisbane, Calif.” before speeding
them on their way to Australia. It was
suggested a few years ago, as part of the
publicity for a City-of-Brisbane loan, that
the Lord Mayor of Brisbane (Australia)
send greetings to his counterpart (possibly
not a Lord Mayor, though) in Brisbane*
Calif.
❖ <♦
“Wallboard”: Latest in university
circles is the story about the economics
graduate who visited his old professor
and was shown a copy of the examina-
tion-paper. “What a strange coincidence,”
the graduate exclaimed. “These questions
are identical with those I sat for thirty
years ago.” “That’s not a coincidence,”
replied the professor ; “we always set the
same paper.” "But don't the students
know what questions to expect?” asked
the visitor. “Of course—but that doesn’t
help them. In economics the answers
change every year;”
♦> *
“D.W.”: A Balmain (Sydney) hotel
displays a notice in its gents.’ toilet;
“Please do not use bad language, as our
Beer Garden adjoins.”
❖ ❖ *l*
“Paddy Doyle”: Long ’Un, full-
blown trooper, 6 A.L.H., became a strong
convert to old-school-tie values after his
experience in Moascar boob, where he’d
been stiff enough to cop 28 days. One of
the old school’s bright scholars was a
fang-snatcher with the local dental unit
and, hearing of Long ’Un’s plight, got
a quiet signal through, suggesting severe
toothache during his tour as Orderly
Dental Officer. Prisoner duly delivered
between a pair of fixed bayonets, 0.D.0.
BENELONG POINT
A pity it will cost so much
To build at Benelong . . .
How odd we cannot build a house
For singing for a song.
n.s.w.
IAN HEALY.


examined and silently admired the per-
fect teeth, then dismissed escort for
estimated hour for treatment. Hospital
brandy and cigarettes were produced
while the patient lounged luxuriously in
the dental chair. Three further similar
professional visits did much to break the
dull round of field-punishment.
* ❖ ❖
“Tom Trout” (London): Having men-
tioned to a couple of the Italian citizenry
that I’d done some acting in Australia,
they asked with interest: “Stage or
films?” When I said: “Radio,” they
looked at each other blankly. My
attempt to describe the status of radio-
acting in Australia was obviously taken
as some kind of down-under leg-pull.
Can it be that the civilising influence of
soap-opera has by-passed the benighted
land of Dante?
“Roger Mike”: If ours goes down in
history as a prurient age obsessed with
sex it will be partly the fault of our
popular magazines ; not so much their
content as their display. In the news-
agent’s I saw a monthly with sensible
articles about the welfare of the child,
but the front-cover urged, in gaudy
letters and large: “Read about ‘The Sex
Life of Little Children’! ” Cost me every
bit of two-bob, too.
❖ ♦> ♦♦♦
“Mick o’ Melbourne”: A Melbourne
“Age” heading, “Bishop Lyons for Sale,”
had people guessing, but the item it
covered made sense. Sale, in Gippsland,
is the episcopal centre of a Roman
Catholic diocese and Bishop Lyons had
just been appointed to the see in succession
to the late Bishop Ryan.
"Don't tell me you've Wrecked the car , John — we're going out tonight."
“Marg”: Outside a plumber’s shop:
We stand behind every shower we install.
Further along in a cake-shop window:
Shortcake —Take it home and berry it.
* ❖ *
“W.E.H.”: Twelve-year-old Danny,
sampling boarding-school, on hearing he
was to be isolated for a few days because
of eye-infection, tearfully protested that
he couldn’t possibly sleep alone in a room,
for he had never before slept alone even
in a bed. Big-brother Peter pooh-poohed
the statement, but Danny-boy stuck to his
guns, insisting that Pete knew very well
that until boarding-school claimed them
both of them had always slept with Mum,
and still did in the holidays. Dad, he
explained, slept in the cellar. Fifteen-
year-old Peter, with flaming cheeks,
vanished before any further details of his
sleeping-habits could be divulged by a
guileless Danny to an amused nurse-in-
charge.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Nimrod”: A Westralian publican,
charged with drunken driving, pleaded
that he was tired after a day’s stock-
taking.
>*♦
“Willie Nillie”: One should perhaps
be hesitant in telling “Yakipan” (B.
17/7/’57) that the other end of Mel-
bourne’s Collins Street is called the West
End because the Occidental is up at the
Oriental end.
“Xavier”: There’s a rash of “news-
papermen” among Victoria’s prison
fraternity. At Pentridge we have the most
ambitious news-magazine, “Stockade,”
but “Progress” (Bendigo), “Singing
Cicada” (Langi Kal Kal), “Neptune”
(McLeod prison-farm) and the “Flat
Rock Bulletin” (Beechworth) also have
their eager, if limited, readers. One con-
vict columnist wrote recently: “This is
not my first literary attempt. I have
previously written three poems of 10
verses and three cheques of £lO. All
equally full of verve and bounce, but
strangely unacceptable.”
❖ ♦>
“Geep”: A French visitor to Scotland
has recorded her reactions on first hear-
ing the bagpipes. “We must be thank-
ful,” she wrote in her diary, “that they
do not also smell.” It is regrettable that
her reactions when first she met the haggis
face to face have been denied us.
KINSHIP OF THE COLOSSAL
“A club called Overweights Anonymous will
be launched in Sydney. Its founder, Mrs. Dita
Cobb, believes that getting to know other over-
weight people is important for women, for they
will then feel that there will be others to give
them moral support in the constant battle to
reduce.”
Those who fall for fancy fare,
Tempted by the rich cream-puff
Unable to resist the cake-with-icing
Or the chocolate-eclair,
All too weak to cry “Enough!”
To viands so provoking and
enticing —
Heart up, sisters! For no more
Will you need alone to fight
An appetite that’s grown perhaps
too lusty
In the grim-fought spare-tyre war,
They’ll be with you, day and night;
Moral support will be your weapon
trusty!
To gregarious bent give rein!
Get together with your kind;
Discuss your diet-chart, vital-
statistic.
Curves may not seem such a bane
As they did. Also you’ll find
Reason perhaps for being optimistic:
Things more relative will seem;
Prospects won’t be quite so dark
When you feel you must look
skinny by comparison
(Even though you tip the beam
At around the twelve-stone mark )
With Mrs. Higgins or with Mrs.
Harrison.
Wage the Battle of the Bulge!
Fight the Fiend of Avoirdupois
Beneath the Overweights Anonymous
banner!
*Gainst temptation to indulge
Oh, the force of fat deploy
And march against the foe in fear-
some manner.
But it surely must be plain
That each Amazon’s dream will be
That soon the beefy ballast will
have vanished
In the heat of the campaign;
And it follows she will be
From O.A.’s ranks incontinently
banished.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


WE PLAYED WOODEN TRUMPETS
...ADRIAN WINTIE
A LITTLE over two years ago Tony
and I were walking along a corri-
dor in Sydney’s Conservatorium
when little old Miss Mulligan
stopped us. Miss Mulligan was in charge
of costumes for all Con. productions. She
was beloved of all.
“Look here, boys,” she said, gripping
my arm, “1 need a couple of young chaps
like you for an opera we’re putting on
—l’ll fix you up with costumes and so
forth.”
I wasn’t particularly keen: piano-
exams were drawing close, and I needed
all my spare time for practice. Besides,
I’d never graced a stage before . . .
“All right, Miss Mulligan,” Tony said.
“We’d be pleased to do it.”
Miss Mulligan beamed. Her grip on
my arm tightened. “Will you, boys?
Well, can you come to the props-room
this afternoon at three? We’ll fix you up
with costumes.”
Exit Miss Mulligan, beaming, fragile
as delicate china. It was vaguely alarming
that she should have confidence in me.
My knowledge of the theatre was slight.
THE opera—a modern edition of an
Egyptian drama —was to run for two
nights.
That afternoon we presented ourselves
at Miss Mulligan's costume-cluttered
room. She told us we were to be “pages”
(or the Egyptian equivalent), our func-
tion being to lead a string of soldiers,
guards, eunuchs and the Chorus onstage.
It would have been O.K. if that was all
we had to do —but we were issued with
“trumpets” ; long trumpet-shaped blocks
of wood painted gold, which Miss Mulli-
gan said must be played. Play wooden
trumpets? . . .
Things sorted out the next afternoon,
when Miss Mulligan took us down to
the Hall to run through our part.
Our cue was when the pianist (who
was orchestra and conductor combined)
played a series of loud ascending arpeggi.
We would then march slowly onstage,
leading the Chorus, sundry soldiers, etc.
When we reached the footlights, we were
to raise our “trumpets” and make as if
we were blowing. At that instant the
piano would cut-out, and a real
trumpeter, secreted in the orchestra-pit,
would send up a burst of sound. Then
we had to lower our “trumpets,” turn,
and proceed to opposite sides of the
stage.
Obviously the trick lay in co-ordinating
our wooden fakes with the real McCoy—
so that at least the people in the last few
rows of the Hall would be fooled.
Later in the week we had a couple of
rehearsals with full cast —no trumpeter,
though. He’d sent word he’d be along at
the dress-rehearsal. So we practised
marching on and, when we raised our
“trumpets,” merely imagined a smooth,
golden tone.
At the dress-rehearsal gnomelike Miss
Mulligan was everywhere: now standing
out front listening critically, now flitting
backstage to advise a principal on stage-
movement . . . Backstage, in our golden
page's robes and rope-sandals, Tony and
1 waited for our cue.
Everything went well. At the given
time we marched on, raised our instru-
ments and “blew”: a shrill trumpet-yelp
shot out from the orchestra-pit and
bounced otf the walls of the empty
auditorium.
CAME the first-night. The Hall filled
to capacity.
Teeth glaring whitely from grease-
painted faces, Tony and I chatted to a
couple of Egyptian soldiers —splendid
fellows with helmets, breastplates, clank-
ing brassy armor and silver-painted
wooden spears. Several eunuchs were
lounging near by, smoking cigarettes.
We peered out from behind a back-
drop. The friendly, empty Hall had
turned into a congestion of hostile faces.
1 felt small.
The contralto finished her aria. Tony
and 1 advanced to the edge of the back-
drop. Miss Mulligan appeared, script in
hand, and collected all the eunuchs,
soldiers and Chorus.
The pianist was diving up and down
the keyboard. Then —a rushing, upward
arpeggio. Miss Mulligan excitedly
whispered, “Now, boys!” Tony and 1,
hearts pounding, faces slightly sweaty
beneath the cloying greasepaint, stepped
out and started our journey.
A sea of faces. 1 kept my eyes fixed
on the Exit-door at the far end of the
Hall.
We reached the footlights ; the piano
slowed, cut-out. We raised our trumpets,
took a deep breath and “blew.”
Nothing happened! I went hat and
cold. What to do? I glanced at Tony ;
he’d lowered his trumpet. I lowered
mine.
Suddenly a beautiful doubl e-forte
trumpet-burst sprang out of the orchestra-
pit. There was a titter from the audience.
Dear Miss Mulligan! How she, too, must
have suffered!
The next night there was no trumpeter.
The piano did the job. Although it
wasn’t as realistic, at least it was perfectly
in time with us.
SUNDAY SUNSHINE
...DON JORDAN
SUNDAY afternoon, and the air is
full of the drone of rotary-mowers,
Up and down the street families
are burning their fallen leaves, or
carting them off to compost-heaps —
there are two schools of thought On it.
People are standing around with rakes
or are down on their knees with trowels.
A wheelbarrow squeals, a mattock
thumps, and a high voice from some
near-by garden says: “But irises need
sunlight, darling.”
Me, I’m hiding from all this in a small
corner that has all the sun in the world,
and the privacy of a paling fence, an
ideal spot for a drowsy skirmish with a
book.
Little voices, much more entertaining,
start coming through the palings from
next-door.
“Pussy . . . we’ll see if pussy’s sick,”
says one.
The second, apparently the doctor, and
fully four years old, a young lady doctor
at that, turns on the professional manner.
“Pussy, lie down. Open your mouth.
Say Ah-h. Mmm. Pussy’s got tonsillitis
and German measles. She’s got urti, too.”
“Oh dear,” says the cat’s mother.
“Will she need a polio needle?”
The cat is saved from this fate when
the doctor spots something else and cries
out: “Look! Pussy’s got a tick!”
“Where?”
They are silent for a bit, and only a
steady purring sound comes through the
palings.
Then the “mother”: “You silly! That's
not a tick. That’s her bosom.”
THEY go off somewhere. Much later
I start up. Nearly dropped off that
time. Still on page 286. No headway at all.
The doctor, it seems, has now put away
her clinical manner and has just emerged
in her very best rigout.
Her mother calls out after her: “Don’t
get in the mud. I’ll be ready to take you
in a minute.”
A door shuts. Silence. Then the little
voices again.
Ist voice: “That’s a pretty dress. My
one’s got flowers on it, too. We went
to Sunday-school this morning.”
2nd voice: “I go this afternoon. I’ve
got fourpence to put on the plate.”
A bit of whispering here. Suspicious.
Mention of paddle-pops as an alternative
to the plate.
Then, Ist voice, envious: “I haven’t
got a hat like that.”
2nd: “It’s straw. The flowers are
arflcial.”
Ist: “Oh! . . . My shoeS are cleaner
than yours.”
2nd: “These are my old shoes.”
Ist: “My old shoes are cleaner than
your old shoes.”
Sounds dangerous for a moment, but
they get on to a safe topic again.
Ist: “You’ve got gloves on!”
(This I must see, so I peer through the
palings. The little neighbor on her way
to Sunday-school is immaculately turned-
out, really the cat’s pyjamas.)
2nd: “White gloves.”
Ist: “You’ve got a hole in the finger.”
2nd: “I know. I bit it there. That’s so
I can pick my nose.”
Her mother rings down the curtain by
starting her car and calling: “Come on,
we’ll be late.”
Back in the book I find I’m still on page
286, so I give up and have a little rest.


POLITICAL POINTS
Sunny Queensland’s vaunted winter
climate didn’t get a very good advertise-
ment from the Evatt election visit.
Bukowski was too sick to attend Bert’s
Brisbane meeting and the Doc. himself
was put to bed after his first sniff of
Bundaberg.
• •
In their final radio appeals on Wednes-
day night Messrs. Gair, Duggan and
Nicklin-Morris were agreed on only one
thing—that their own particular party was
the only one capable of giving Queens-
land true democratic government.
Gair, fighting a strong rearguard
action, presented the election as a choice
between democracy and totalitarianism,
with his own party as the standard-bearer
of democracy. Duggan didn’t see it that
way. His listeners were told that the real
danger today was not Communism but
“the rising tide of Fascism.” In this
he seemed to be echoing the Evatt charge
of “clerical Fascism” against Gair, but the
Country-party and Liberals were also
apparently suspected of Fascism. Nicklin
and Morris in their radio-statement
reiterated promises made in their policy-
speeches and urged the necessity of the
electors giving them a clear majority “to
replace Labor misrule.”
• •
Because of the Prime Minister’s
delayed return from London the intro-
duction of the Budget will be deferred
for a week. The final draft was to have
been drawn up by Cabinet on August 6,
then sent off for printing ready for presen-
.tation on August 28. As most Ministers
want the P.M. to have a say in the final
.drafting this, will now be delayed a week,
with a corresponding lag in presentation,
thus postponing . Budget Day till
September 4.
• •
Cabinet has reportedly decided to
present another “hold-on to what we’ve
got” Budget, and keep possible vote-
winning tax-concessions until next year’s
Budget, which will precede a Federal
election. Some minor concessions to
companies, with possibly a slight easing
on sales-tax on a limited number of
goods, will probably be forthcoming this
-year. Beyond that—the mixture as
before.
• • -
The by-election to fill Murray Robson’s
Vaucluse seat in the N. S. Wales
Assembly has been fixed for August 24.
Nominations close on Friday.
• »
George Lawson, 76-year-old Labor
M.H.R. for Brisbane, reacted just as
strongly to Gair’s suggestion that he
would stand down in favor of Duggan at
the next Federal election as Rowley
James did to similar rumors bestowing
his seat on Dr. Evatt. The old Boer War
veteran made it clear that anyone who
wants the Brisbane seat will have to chuck
him out first.
e •
Some trade-union organisers in Sydney
are to take time off from organising to
hold a stopwork-meeting for the purpose
of organising themselves into a separate
organisers’ union. Seems that they’re
so busy looking after the interests of other
unionists that they get no time to look
after their own and such is man’s
inhumanity to man that no one gives two
hoots what happens to them. But the
proposed union itself presents problems.
If it is big enough it will eventually need
organisers, too. Who'll look after the
interests of the Organisers’ Union’s
organisers?
• •
Deposits in Australian savings-banks
increased by £86.4 million in the year
ended June 30, compared with £67.1
million in the previous year. The Com-
monwealth Savings Bank registered £9
million of this, State and Trustee savings-
banks £9.1 million and private savings-
banks £68.2 million. At the end of the
year deposits in all savings-banks totalled
£1227.4 million, which represented £l2l
per head of population.
'# # ‘
For some years during the war the
House of Representatives was enlivened
by the presence of Dr. Gaha, a Labor
man from Tasmania with some indepen-
dence of outlook. In the early ’thirties
Gaha was Government leader in the Tas-
manian Legislative Council, and he is
now a member for Denison in the House
of Assembly. He is now seeking Labor
endorsement as a Senate candidate, and
if he gets in he will be the first Aus-
tralian to have occupied seats in four
Houses of Parliament. Not many have
sat in three, but one of them is
R. G. Menzies, who likes to describe him-
self as “an old boy of the Victorian
Legislative Council” and who was also
a member and Minister in the Victorian
Legislative Assembly before entering
Federal Parliament.
• •
Trade - talks are pending with the
Philippines and Ceylon, and there is a
possibility of a pact with both countries.
The talks with Manila will be accelerated
as a result of tariff increases in the
Philippines, which are affecting adversely
a considerable range of Australian
exports. In Colombo the Department of
Trade is concerned at the inroads made
by Indonesia into the Australian tea-
market—also the threatened imports
from Formosa.
• •
The old “unemployment-pool” myth,
which Labor propagandists have been
trying to tie to the tail of the Federal
Libs, since 1949, was dragged-out by the
Bukowski-Duggan Labor party last week.
Instead of libelling Professor Hytten they
ascribed the story to Professor Paish, “a
guest of the Australian trading-banks,”
with, of course, a tie-up with “the
reactionary Liberal and Country parties.”
For good measure Sir Otto Niemeyer was
resurrected from 1930, and from that
stage onward the A.L.P. advertisement in
the “Courier-Mail” could have been
pinched from an Eddie Ward speech.
• •
“Advice”: Some soul - searching
inquiries are going on to find out why
the Government was so badly misled on
the question of the right type of air-
craft for future use by the R.A.A.F.
Prime Minister Menzies and Defence
Minister Mcßride both stated that their
“defence advisers” recommended the
FlO4 Starfighter as the answer to the
R.A.A.F.’s prayers, yet on return from
the United States Mcßride announced
that the Starfighter was “too technical”
for the needs of the R.A.A.F.
If this is the real reason for the Govern-
ment’s decision not to buy Starfighters,
why didn’t the Government know this
from its “advisers” before Mcßride left
for America?
- Or is it that he was unable to bring-
off a deal with America because the U.S.
wanted spot cash?
• •
“Phizog”: Saturday’s Queensland elec-
tion brought in the usual crop
of informal votes, but I wonder if any
ballot-papers were marked like the one
handed in at our polling-booth last
time. Thus: “Bloggs (sitting member).
Too old. Dobbs (challenger). No bloody
brains.”
• •
The A.C.T.U., after listening to Miners’
Federation officials on the subject of
retrenchments on the N. S. Wales coal-
fields, agreed to support an approach
to the N. S. Wales and Federal Govern-
ments with suggestions for solving coal-
fields problems. Points in a projected
plan include reduction of the working-
week to 35 hours; higher pay ; more
annual leave. Perhaps the A.C.T.U. is in
earnest; more likely it is just playing
politics.
The problems of the N. S. Wales coal-
industry are largely problems of high
costs. How they can be solved by increas-
ing the cost of winning coal is perhaps
clear to Albert Monk, fresh from a coursd
in Chinese economics, but it isn’t likely
that the Joint Coal Board, the colliery-
proprietors, the Arbitration Court or the
State and Federal Governments will be
able to understand it.
• •
New registrations of motor-vehicles in
1956-57 totalled 205,229 (143,979 cars
and 61,250 commercial vehicles), com-
pared with 229,218 (158,191 cars and
71,027 commercial vehicles) in the previ-
ous financial year. This represents a drop
of about 10 per cent., and can no doubt
be attributed, in part at least, to the
increase in sales-tax in March last year.


What is the author of Australian Labor
Leader writing in his own memoirs this
week?
• •
With a considerable number of votes
still to be counted the Country-party-
Liberal partnership held the lead in 40
seats on Monday and were assured of
being able to form the next Queensland
Government. The A.L.P. was in front in
21 seats ; the Q.L.P. in 11 and there were
two Independents. No polling took place
in Gregory because of the death of Mines
Minister Devries (Q.L.P.) after nomina-
tions had closed.
At that stage the Q.L.P. had lost
Fortitude Valley, Kurilpa, Merthyr,
Nundah, Sandgate and Windsor to the
Liberals; Mulgrave, Nash, Roma, Somer-
set and Tablelands to the Country
party; Bulimba and Keppel to the
A.L.P. Of these, Tablelands, where
Minister for Agriculture Collins trailed
Gilmore (C.P.) by 54 votes, was the only
doubtful seat.
The A.L.P. had lost Buranda and
Kelvin Grove for certain to the Liberals
and probably Toowoomba (A.L.P. leader
Duggan) and Mt. Gravatt (deputy-leader
Dittmer) also. Only a last-minute
recovery in Balonne could save it from
going to the Country party. Offsetting
these two were the two seats gained from
the Q.L.P.
No sitting Liberal or Country-party
member was defeated, but preselection
troubles lost the Liberals three possible
seats. Alderman Pilbeam, last year’s
Liberal candidate for Rockhampton, lost
the preselection and stood as an Indepen-
dent for Keppel, while his wife stood as
an Independent for Rockhampton. Both
polled strongly, with the result that Rock-
hampton was narrowly won by the Q.L.P.
man and Keppel by the A.L.P. Similarly,
P. Curro, on missing the Liberal nomina-
tion for Hinchinbrook, stood as an Inde-
pendent, polled very well and saved the
day for A.L.P. member Jesson. If Labor-
leader Duggan scrapes home in
Toowoomba he’ll have Alderman Vera
Lacaze to thank for drawing-off
enough Liberal votes to make it possible.
Still, the Libs, can’t grumble. After all,
first-past-the-post enabled them and the
Country party to win. But they’ll be wise
to bring in preferential voting among
other electoral reforms before the next
election.
• •
Is it a case of “Uncle Sam, pick oop
tha Muscat!”
• •
Most of the changes proposed by the
N. S. Wales Electoral Districts Commis-
sion are in the metropolitan area—44 of
the 48 city electorates are affected, against
only 13 of the 46 country seats.
Many of the alterations are minor only,
but two seats in the inner suburbs will
disappear through amalgamations dnd
two new ones will be created in the outer
areas. Paddington and Waverley will be
amalgamated; so will Croydon and
Ashfield. A new seat, Cronulla, will be
hacked out of the swollen Sutherland
electorate, and Merrylands will reduce the
size of Blacktown to manageable *
proportions.
On balance Labor seems to be the
gainer on the new boundaries, and
Liberal-party protests are expected to
fall thick and fast, mainly on the score
of too little regard having been paid to
“community of interest.” If the new
map stands it will mean quite a deal of
reshuffling of sitting members. Health
Minister O’Sullivan is expected to retire
at the end of the present Parliament, so
the disappearance of the Paddington seat
will present no problem to Labor. One
of the two Liberal members in the
Ashfield-Croydon merger will, however,
have to miss out.
Blacktown becomes a borderline seat
for Labor, but the sitting member will
probably try to switch to the new Merry-
lands seat which adjoins it; similarly the
Liberal member for Parramatta may find
it safer to try his luck in Blacktown.
Sutherland, a Liberal seat, looks like
being a better bet for Labor, but the new
Cronulla will probably be a near-certainty
for the Libs. North Sydney, through
accretions from Neutral Bay, becomes
risky for Labor; Ryde and Concord
safer.
In the overall result the new boundaries
are not likely to make any great change
in party-strengths. Earlier redistributions
had already given Labor about as much
advantage as the electoral rules per-
mitted ; six years ago the wiping-out of
four country seats made all the difference
between victory and defeat for the
Government.
• •
If Duggan and Dittmer are both
defeated it could mean a strange come-
back for Frank Forde, former Prime
Minister and High Commissioner in
Canada, now M.L.A. for Flinders.
There’s a dearth of leadership material
in the Queensland A.L.P. and Forde
seems a likely stopgap leader But he
has to win his own seat first; on Monday
his lead was only 160, with about 1000
votes still to come.
• •
Even medicoes in Melbourne are now
calling it “ ‘Sun-Herald’ ’flu.”
• •
The Graziers’ Federal Council has
asked the Federal Government to lift the
ban on the export of Merino sheep, which
has been in force since 1929. The
Graziers’ president said that the ban
was introduced through a fear that
synthetic fibres might restrict the world
market for wool. This had not happened.
Demand still exceeded supply and the
danger now was that shortage of pure
wool might accustom the world to the
use of synthetics.
Now that the woolgrowers have added
their voice to that of the stud-men there
seems no argument left for continuing the
ban. Some sheepmen claim that but for
the ban there might have been a more
powerful wool-industry in the United
States and that in consequence not so
much encouragement would have been
given to the development of synthetics
there.
• •
Victorian Labor-leader John Cain,
head of the party since 1937 and three
times Premier, who died in Townsville
on Sunday, at 70, had been a member of
the Victorian Parliament for 40 years.
Well-liked by members of all political
parties, he had the misfortune to see
one of his Governments wrecked by
Chifley’s Bank Grab and another by
Evatt’s Hobart Split. In himself he wae
kindly and hospitable.
IT 'S THE BROADWAY MALADY!


There's m
flight to suit YOU!
Whenever you travel, wherever you travel, there’s always a
TAA VISCOUNT flight to suit you. For your convenience, v
TAA operates daily round-the-clock Viscount flights, between
all states. From as far north as Cairns, to Hobart in the south, t v
right across the nation to Perth in the west, you can fly TAA Viscount.
©u
More people fly TAA the friendly way
Reservations: TAA Booking Offices in all States or any authorised Travel Agent.
NPVSI7
PERSONAL ITEMS
Last Thursday morning, in a Sydney
fresh with the morning sun after night
rain, Lieutenant-General E. W. Wood-
ward, escorted by 22 mounted police,
drove from Victoria Barracks to the
Botanic Gardens. There, braided
shoulders set to the mould of
a G.O.C. Eastern Command, he was
greeted by the Lord Mayor (Aid. H. F.
Jensen), reviewed an R.A.A.F. guard-of-
honor, and made a brief speech of thanks.
Then to Government House, where, in a
brief ceremony at noon, Sir William
Owen (Senior Puisne Judge) administered
the oath,, the first report of a 17-gun
salute boomed, and Lieutenant-General
Woodward was the new Governor of
N.S.W.; the 31st and the first
Governor born in the State.
• •
First life-membership in the Victorian
branch of the Association of Architects,
Engineers, Surveyors and Draughtsmen
has gone to a former Pole who could
speak only a -few words of English when
he arrived here just before the war —Icko
Tenenbaum, now a senior officer of the
Department of Civil Aviation, an affable
fellow whose voice is still slightly
accented. Tenenbaum was determined to
become an aircraft engineer and a
Bachelor of Science, and so poor was his
English he had to have the help of an
interpreter when he first started at Mel-
bourne University. Lecturers and
students helped him through. Since
he took his degree he has represented Aus-
tralia in Canada at a civil aviation
conference.
• •
Home again to fill engagements in
Perth, pianist and composer Ray Hartley.
Born at Kellerberrin (W.A.), he took his
A.Mus.A. at Sydney Conservatorium
and went on to the Royal Academy of
Music, London, where he passed the
L.R.A.M. examinations twice. Back in
Perth for four months, he left in 1953 to
study at the Julliard Musical College,
Columbia University, N.Y. Several of
his hit-tunes have become popular in the
U.S. He will return to America in
September.
• •
Herewith Victor M. Segal, hon.
treasurer of the Benevolent Society of
New South Wales, the man mainly con-
cerned with the society’s current drive
FUNDS APPEAL
for funds. Target is £lOO,OOO, the greater
part of which is earmarked for a new
labor-ward and' pathology-block at the
Royal Hospital for Women ; money is
also needed for Renwick Infants’ Hospital
at Summer Hill. The Benevolent Society,
which was established by Governor
Lachlan Macquarie in 1813 (the year
Blaxland, Wentworth and Lawson crossed
the Blue Mountains), also runs Scarba
Home for children, Bondi, and Rest-
awhile, for mothers and babies, Home-
bush. This is the first time the society
has made a public appeal for funds. The
familiar reason—rising costs.
The treasurer, who is head of an
importing firm, is 57, served in the
British Army in War I, and came to Aus-
tralia in 1919; a militia artilleryman
between wars, he served in the R.A.A.F.
in War 11. Other interests include the
A.J.C., assessing public speaking (vice-
president of the Rostrum Clubs of
N.S.W. for 25 years), and gardening.
• •
Sir John Northcott retired as Governor
of N. S. Wales last Wednesday, and on
Thursday morning Sydney “Herald’s”
columnist confidently predicted that he
would become chairman of Butler
Transport, Ltd., towards the end of the
year:—
Sir John told me yesterday that he would
riot consider any civil appointment until
“at least October or November.” That’s
when the annual general meeting of Butler
Transport will be held.
Friday’s “Herald” carried a news-
item that Sir John had been appointed to
the board of Wormald Brothers
Industries, Ltd. Personal journalism has
its pitfalls.
• •
Leonard Ernest Samuels, B.Met.E.,
M.Sc., senior scientific officer of the
Defence Standard Laboratories, Supply
Department, Sydney, won the 1957
David Syme Research Prize. The prize
carries a bronze-medal and about £lOO,
and it is regrettably true, as the
Melbourne “Age,” published by David
Syme’s successors, claimed in announcing
the winner, that it is one of the premier
awards for scientific research in Australia.
Most of the awards for scientific research
in this country carry no more than a
medal; but the David Syme award is
treasured because it has been won by
illustrious scientists over the decades.
Leonard Samuels, who graduated in


metallurgical engineering in s 1942, in
Melbourne, has lately been chiefly
occupied with the nature of polished
metal surfaces.
• •
“Judee”: Died recently at Waratah
(N.S.W.), at 74, William Edward Clegg,
former general-manager of the Common-
wealth Steel Co., Ltd., Newcastle.
Apprenticed as a fitter and turner at the
Newcastle steel firm of A. Goninan, Ltd.,
he finished-up as general-manager. For
50 years associated with technical educa-
tion, Clegg was chairman of Newcastle
Technical Advisory Committee. The
N.S.W. University of Technology con-
ferred an honorary Doctorate of Science
on him, and the W. E. Clegg School
of Trades was named in his honor.
• •
Walter Pemberton Fooks, new
managing-director of Motors, Ltd.,
Adelaide, started on the ground-floor at
that concern —with a broom, when he
wasn’t washing cars—soon after he left
St. Peter’s College. While still in his teens
—he’s now 51 —he worked in car-plants
in England and America, and drove a
T-model Ford from Detroit to San
Francisco. He’s been Deputy Commis-
sioner for Boy Scouts in South Australia
for the past 21 years, ran an Army work-
shops unit in the Middle East and else-
where in War 11, and is president of both
the Australian Road Federation and of
the (S.A.) Chamber of Automotive
Industries. Any spare time is spent potter-
MOTORS
ing around with lathes in his home
workshop.
• •
M. F. Dixon: The retirement of W. G.
(Bill) James from the post of Director of
Music of the A.B.C. leaves only one of
the original senior Federal officers
appointed in 1936-37 still on deck. He is
Keith Barry, the commission’s Controller
of Programmes. I happened to be one
of the original appointees in 1936, and
during the past year or two have been
followed into retirement by Frank Clew-
low (Director of Drama), who died in
Hobart a few weeks ago, Rudy Bronner
(Director of Youth Education) and B. H.
Molesworth, head of the A.B.C. talks
department. Now Bill James has also
stepped down.
There has been a thinning-out of the
commission’s State managers, too, in the
last couple of years. Con. Charlton
(W.A. and Victoria), Ted McCann (Tas-
mania) and now Basil Kirke, who
vacated the managerial chair in Perth
recently to be succeeded by Eric Scholl.
Eric, who resigned the post of Controller
of Administration at head-office in Sydney
for the W.A. managership, is one of the
originals of national broadcasting, having
been associated with the service when it
was managed by Major Conder. He also
served as manager for Queensland for
some time before being appointed to the
third-highest administrative post at head-
office a few years back.
As an example of how the national
broadcasting service has grown, the job
which Sholl has just vacated in Sydney
was. worth only a little over a thousand a
year 10 years ago, but it has been
advertised outside the service at £3250
per annum!
• •
Bad cooking, bad coffee, and generally
poor accommodation in hotels, have
played havoc with New Zealand’s tourist
trade, says Dean Jack Eyre, Minister for
N.Z. Tourist and Health Resorts and
Housing. Coffee —“abominable mixtures
of coffee and chicory”—and “the dressed
cabbage and kumera seen on menus from
North Cape to the Bluff” are among the
worst features of a country comparable
with any in the world, scenically, he says.
Still, he thinks hotels throughout the
Dominion are steadily improving,
although “they have a long way to go to
satisfy the needs of overseas visitors.”
After a couple of years’ law at Auck-
land University College, Eyre worked for
a motor-firm, then, at the age of 22,
started his own importing business, and
for several years was agent for well-
known makes of household appliances.
When supplies were cut off by import-
restrictions in 1938 his American
principals offered him the territory of
Hawaii, where he lived for two years.
He and his wife and small son were in
Honolulu at the time of Pearl Harbor.
He joined the R.N.V.R. at Halifax*
Nova Scotia, served mainly in escort-
ships, in a variety of seas; his wife
staying at San Francisco, working as a
welder in the Kaiser shipyards. After the
war he went back to New Zealand and
reopened his business. One of the first
TOURISTS
officials of the Junior National Party—
chairman of the Remeura branch
in 1938 —he was elected M.P. for North
Shore in 1949, and has held the seat since.
He became Minister of Industries,
Commerce and Customs in 1954, in early
1956 exchanged these for Social Security,
Tourist and Publicity, and, early this
year, when W. Sullivan resigned from
Parliament, took-over Sullivan’s port-
folio (Housing) and gave up Social
Security. He’s 43, and a keen yachtsman.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, Keith Llewellin Bennett, formerly
director of S. Bennett, Ltd., and Associated
Newspapers, later grazier at Coolah (N.S.W.).
Left with reinforcements for the 2nd Battalion
in 1915 and lost a leg in July, 1916,
In Brisbane, at 92, A. J. Mason, master at
Brisbane Boys’ Grammar School for 51 years
(1889-1940). Many distinguished Queenslanders
passed through his hands. M.B.E. in 1955.
At Palmerston North (N.Z.), at 66, George
Frederick Bertrand, 0.8. E., very well known
as a teacher at New Plymouth Boys’ High and
as a soldier in both world wars. C.O. of the
first battalion of the Taranaki Regiment in War
I, he was 2 i./c. of the Maori Battalion early in
War 11, and later C.O. of a Maori training
battalion.
In Melbourne, at 86, J. P. Crichton, a Port
Melbourne councillor for 51 years and live
times Mayor.
In Sydney, at 57, Joseph Patrick King, N.S.W.
president of the Australian Workers’ Union.
In Adelaide, at 79, Sir George Jenkins, who
held Cabinet posts in various S.A. Ministries.
Entering the S.A. Parliament in 1918, his longest
and most important Ministerial office was as
Minister of Agriculture and Forests (1944-54).
In Melbourne, at 70, S. W. Gadsden, chairman
of directors of J. Gadsden (Aust.), Ltd.
In Sydney, at 91, Michael Thomas Sadler, a
director of Sydney Hospital from 1932 and a
vice-president since 1936.
In Adelaide, at 73, H. D. (Dave) Smith, one
of S.A.’s outstanding footballer-athletes at the
turn of the century. West Torrens and State
centreman, and twice winner of the Bay Sheffield.
In Paris, at 77, Sacha Guitry, famous play-
wright, actor and film-producer.


ABORIGINALITIES
TX7E tried to introduce the milkers to
silage by putting some in their
troughs in the shed. Not one touched it,
and it went out to the pigs. We tried
again; same result; so we gave up and
decided the whole pit of silage would
have to go to the pigs, A barrow-load
of the stuff was left outside the milking-
shed ready for the grunters. On the way
in every milker grabbed a mouthful and
ate it with relish. No wonder they’re-
called cows! —“Tabba.”
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Painkiller, the old-time
tipple-cwm-elixir, was popular from
farthest outback to the Torres Straits,
stockmen using it both as a cure and a
pick-me-up, and the earliest of the white
dress-divers in the roaring days of the
Thursday Island fleets using it as an
embrocation against the “screws” and,
internally, as a restorer of warmth
after a spell in the chilly depths. Several
other well-known medicinal preparations
owed their high consumption-rates in par-
ticular localities to virtues other than
those advocated by their makers, and not
unrelated to the kick they carried.
“Jacana”: I claim that some birds are
intelligent. For instance, a noisy-miner
of my acquaintance. Mick knows his way
about this house as well as 1 do. He will
enter a closed room through a narrow
aperture left between the sliding windows,
or find his way to the kitchen via the
sleepout and bedroom. He has come to
us now for several years, and brings the
kids, too. And how could you explain the
habit of wild butcher-birds soaking hard
bread-scraps in the bird-bath, except as
intelligence?
* * * #
“Vingter”: Against the possibility of
Asian ’flu spreading from Dutch New
Guinea to Papua-New Guinea, authority
is preparing a series of isolation hos-
pitals. I hope the efforts meet more
success than did those of the Torres
Strait Islands Administration during the
1919-20 pneumonic-influenza epidemic.
On Badu Island all suspects were put
into a hastily-constructed hut, which was
declared out-of-bounds to the rest of the
population. With the idea of building-
up their resistance the suspects were fed
medicinal foods, with condensed-milk,
rice and sugar figuring largely on the
diet. News of this munificence on the
part of Gubmint quickly spread, where-
upon the official making early-morning
rounds found the greater part of the
supposedly-healthy village either installed
"One of my ancestors —reputed to have been a very hard man .”
in or fighting for a place in the
“isolation” hospital.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: When our rabbits’
ancestors came from England there was
some doubt about whether they’d survive
in Australia, and they nearly didn’t.
They weren’t suited to even the milder
parts, and it took them nearly 50 years
to become thoroughly acclimatised in
N.S.W. and Victoria. They couldn’t make
the grade in sou’-Westralia, where the
early settlers tried repeatedly to breed
them and failed so completely that 80
years after Stirling founded Perth there
wasn’t a wild rabbit west of the Nullarbor.
Latterly bunny has thrived where his
ancestors couldn’t possibly have lived ;
now he’s even competing with the native
fauna for the Dead Heart.
i * * * *
“Kros”: One of the first investigators
of sunspots was a German chemist and
amateur astronomer, H. / S. Schwabe
(1789-1875). In 1826 Schwabe began to
count the number of sunspots day by
day. He was looking for the transit of a
planet with an orbit within Mercury’s—
there isn’t any such planet, of course.
However, on the knowledge then existing,
Schwabe justifiably thought there might
be, and so, with remarkable patience
and application, he counted sunspots
every day for 43 years in succession. He
no doubt realised after a few years that
the planet he looked for did not exist.
It was Schwabe who discovered the cyclic
variation of sunspots, and, although his
announcement of it attracted little notice
at the time, the importance of his dis-
covery has since become evident.
* * * *
In Australian folksong there
is almost a complete lack of industrial
ballads. Some half-a-dozen have been
found, as against several hundreds of
bush ballads. I collected an interesting
fragment recently from Mudgee fiddler
and singer Tom Blackman, whose father
learned it years ago from a half-caste
fiddler:
I’m a nipper, I’m a clipper,
Tm a navvie on the line.
I get four-and-twenty bob a day,
Besides me overtime.
The navvies like the ladies,
The ladies like the fun,
There will be plenty young navvies
When the railway is done.
Does anyone know the remainder of this
one?
* * * *
“M.W.”: Either Australian breeders
have not learned a lesson from the
United States, or the scientists have made
some new discoveries since 1952. Early in
that year Texas hog-breeders discovered
that injections of female sex-hormon®s
into hogs caused a rapid rise in the rate
and quantity of weight-increase. The
profits for the enterprising breeders were
rolling in when Texan physicians became
concerned at the sudden number of male
patients consulting them about some


* Ih£ fKick « AM ABOUT Td pcmonstratG t
? LADIES AMP GeNTueMEM, WAS fiGv£AL£P TO Mg
6y PNG OP the Greatest
coHJuaoas on the
CortTtN£f4~T~
rr has MySTiFieo people in
Eußßy COUNTRY OF THE WORIO.
AMP HAS & BEN PEMONGrRATEP
before the courts of Europe
ThE PtZtNCE OF WALES ASk£P
for. several repeat performances
UJHEN it WAS PLAyEP FOR. HIM 6/
the great Svengali '
AMP THE OF SIAtA
THE HONOR.
OF THS ORPER. OF Th£
Twin, Elephants on svehgau
Because of it.. —-
I wJSEIF HAVE PIaYGQ it'
MAoiy T//W6S before
PtSTiNGUiGHEP PtfIVATS'
AuPIEtNCES
A N<? -jHAVS been con g ratxjlptEp
By High court Judges a np members
Of= p/\fZi-tAMEnt fapM. Both StOE£
op the house
I am , umes
££nTl£M£N j that I will. Mystify
you AS { HAV6" AUZBAPy //
My STiftßP 'THOUSANDS 1
V
lull At ASOot


highly undesirable changes in physical
characteristics. Inquiry showed that these
customers were considerable eaters of
pork and ham —and the breeders of the
hogs were advised to drop their new
methods. Now that the Australian Meat
Board has announced that hormone treat-
ment for cattle and lambs in this country
is proposed, to stimulate animal growth,
we should have some assurances about
after-effects on consumers.
* * * *
“Moorapi”: Trying to save the koala
population from extinction the Victorian
Fisheries and Game Department has
resumed mass-migration of them. More
than 100 have been moved from Phillip
Island to more suitable districts —to escape
cyanide-poisoning from the young shoots
of burnt gumtrees! Method of dislodg-
ment was by gentle lassooing and dropping
into stretched sheets. Five-thousand
koalas have been shifted from Phillip
Island and French Island in 30 years, but
now new gums are to be planted in the
hope of later restocking the area with the
“bears.”
• * * *
“Fell Maken”: Willabalangaloo is un-
doubtedly mellifluous (B. 17/7/’57), but
for the easiest to slither off both tongue
and typewriter I’ll nominate Pallamallawa
(N.S.W.). Try it and see.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: “There’s nothing like a cat
around the place if snakes are plentiful,”
Charlie declared. “Cats don’t generally
attack, but Joe will always shoot-through
when he sees one.” For once Fitz, his
yerbal sparring-partner, agreed. “ ’S’fact;
"Id like to catch the culprit who tampered with the identification-board !”
which to place the uplifted foot, and
they vary the stance occasionally from
foot to foot. Perhaps foot-rails are just
what the abos need to ensure their real
assimilation in our civilisation.
* * * *
“E. &0. E.”: About a month back an
invasion of Tassie by mysterious birds
caused some excitement. As far as I can
make out from the descriptions they were
white ibis. Oddly, the Speck has no native
ibis, and this seems to be the first time
migrants answering the descriptions have
appeared ; they are not even mentioned
in local bird-books, though both Littler
and Sharland cite their cousins the straw-
necked and glossy ibis as rare or
“accidental” visitors.
I had a beaut. When you saw old Tom
starin’ into the grass with his back up
and fur bristling you could bet your
braces he had a longtail set. One dinner-
time the newchum rouseabout happens to
glance out the window ; next second he
jumps up, nearly knocks the table over,
and hollers: ‘The moggy’s got a snake
hypmerised!’ He grabs the gun and
rushes out. I hear the shot before I get
to the door.” “What was it, a tiger?”
Charlie asked. “Nar,” Fitz answered
quietly. “A tortoiseshell —the flamin’
idiot was too excited to aim straight.”
* * * *
“Wallboard”: Tell “Big End” (B.
12/6/’57) that the ability of frogs and
similar creatures to withstand fairly solid
charges of electricity is well known.
Probable explanation is that the natural
wetness and tough skin of a frog causes
the electricity to-travel round its body
rather than penetrating to the flesh and
muscles. But 2400 volts is stretching it
somewhat! Perhaps “Big End's” electri-
cian meant 240 volts —the more usual
rating for domestic use in this country.
Incidentally, most trouble in substations
comes from mice and rats, which get into
spots thought inaccessible and cause
“shorts,” but usually suffer just retribution
by cooking themselves.
* * * *
“Mugga Way”: Those scientists needn't
have gone all the way to the Northern
Territory to investigate the problem of
resting on one leg (B. 24/7/’57). In any
Australian city and in country towns
full-blooded whites can be found at most
hours of the day doing exactly the same
thing. Admittedly they use a rail on
RECONCILIATION WITH THE
SPARROWS
For many years 1 have resented sparrows,
Blaming them for the dispossession of
birds
Native to these high hills, and brighter
and better —
Better as songsters, and brighter in
variegated
Plumage and habits: nobler in size, form,
worth.
Yes, what were sparrows but another
instance
Of evil importations, prickly-pear,
Burrs, rabbits, sidera retusa, crofton,
groundsel?
Drab sparrows . . . chatterers . . . larrikins
of the city . . .
Noisy, gregarious proletarians
Fighting and thieving together, utterly
useless —
Never migrating to leave the year part-
free.
Truce now to all of this . . . They come
not back,
Green lorikeets, blue-mountains, pink
rosed as,
The dawn-saluting butcher-birds and
magpies,
The gaily-colored wren, the wonga
pigeon,
Grave heron and hilarious kookaburra.
They never will return here . . . The city
spreads
And with it spread the sparrows who are
clever
At adaptation, survival. Through all
difficulties
Remaining their chirpy selves, they
multiply.
Tear up our lettuce-patches into shreds,
You muddy urchins indestructible
In your vivacity—scornful of mere men!
Give us your cheek and tease us with
your tricks!
Amuse us with your wordy, hedge-long
battles!
Yes, you are drab, but how much drabber
would be
A world that’s turning everything into
cities
Were you not here to symbolise real
birds?
QUEENSLAND.
MARTIN HALEY.


“There's no talking to Ako since he Was elected best-dressed man in the village."
HOW often have we laughed at the
drunken drover who lost his sheep
in the bush ballad “Drover’s Dream”? I
saw it actually happen recently near
Wallah (N.S.W.). On a Sunday-afternoon
drive we met a mob of several kundred
sheep coming along the road toward us.
There were no dogs, and no one in charge
of the sheep. Over the hill, about a mile
further on, was another mob, about the
same size, travelling in the opposite
direction. They were in charge of a couple
of efficient-looking dogs. Another half-
mile, and we came upon two drovers, a
horse and sulky, and an array of empty
wine-bottles in the shade of a roadside
ironbark. “How’m I going? Who wants to
know?” was the belligerent reply to my
opening gambit. I moved quickly on to
the vital topic, and disbelief tinged with
dismay spread over two flushed faces.
They took some convincing, and as we
drove away were still muttering: “Oh,
no, Darky wouldn’t do that. He’s a
brainy dog!”—“J.M.”
* * * *
“Allan B.”: At present prices, if you
can dig up 60 tons of copper your collect
would be about £20,000 —and an amateur
family salvage-group has been after just
that in a century-old wreck off the coast
near the Victorian-S.A. border. The mine
is the 360-tons all-steel steamer Admella,
wrecked with the loss of 100 lives on the
seabed at Carpenter’s Rock, near Cape
Northumberland. She was carrying 90
tons of ingot copper at the time, mined
in South Australia and smelted at
Kapunda, but just after the wreck about
30 tons Whs salvaged.
* k- * *
“J.H.”: Standing at the edge of the
dam on a dark night I heard the familiar
splash, ripple, quack and tail-shake of
ducks alighting, and shone the torch
on a pair of black-duck. They showed
no alarm; in fact, after a good look
they came swimming towards the light
on a zigzag course. Right up to my feet
they suddenly took fright and left the
water, one flying into me, to be caught.
Next morning my mate asked how I’d
got the duck. “It flew into my arms,” I
told him. “Yes,” he scoffed. “Knew we
were tired of ’roo-tail stew, I suppose.”
Later he asked me again, and I told
him I’d shot the duck at 200yds. with my
pea-rifle. “Good shot,” he said. “I
knew you were pulling my leg before.”
* * * *
“8.A.H.”: Reflecting-tape has proved
helpful to scientists of the C.5.1.R.0.
wild-life-survey section at Gungahlin,
near Canberra. Possums under study are
picked-up at night with a strong spot-
light turned on the small, marking square
of tape.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Victoria and Tasmania look
like agreeing to suspend fishing for
school-shark for one month a year—
November—and S.A. is to consider it.
Reason is that school-shark figures
prominently on the Australian menu and
is in danger of being fished-out, sharks
being comparatively slow breeders.
Some females don’t produce their first
brood until they’re about 12 years old,
and on the average only about 30 young
are born at a time —a very low fecundity
for denizens of the deep. Add to this
that each female produces only every
second year, and take into account the
high natural mortality in the marine
world, and it’s obvious that the present
colossal take of shark in Australian
waters can’t last, unless some form of
protection is introduced. Incidentally,
baby-sharks are “pups.”
* * * *
“Brick E.”: Having a go at carrying
two baskets of tomatoes per Chinese
market-gardener’s yoke-stick I progressed
like a drunken sailor in an earthquake.
Yet for years I’d carried the white man’s
burden —a hodful of bricks. It’s all a
matter of national gait: there’s harmony
between spring of stick and Celestial
amble; the European stride com-
pletely upsets rhythm and equilibrium.
Incidentally, the old-time hoddy
developed the trapezius muscle on
the shoulder until it became as hard
and as strong as a motor-tyre. But
hoddies are a dying race, the Building
Laborers’ Union having banned the use
of “the monkey.”


Business, Robbery, Etc.
THE COLD MARGINAL BREEZE
T>EOPLE are still asking,
“When do you think busi-
ness is likely to pick-up?”
According to statistics, it
has picked-up a little already
in the manufacturing industry.
But even there the recovery
has been spotty, and follows
the pattern shown in Stock
Exchange quotations of the
present time. That is, key
industries are faring best, on
the whole.
Almost the whole move-
ment, away from flourishing
key industries and depressed
home-appliance factories, is
marginal one way or the other.
There isn’t really a very pro-
nounced movement down or
up.
But in the face of increasing
costs and tight credit, calling
for stock - reductions and
operating economies, the mar-
ginal movement has been
enough to cause some furrow-
ing of brows during the 1956-
i 57 financial year.
For the last six months of
that financial term there was
an indication that business was
picking-up slightly in some
lines. That is assuming that
manufacturers’ output was
related to demand. But the
only types of business to show
really striking progress were
among those regarded as key
industries.
Key Industries Improve
Among these, iron-and-steel
and cement were prominent,
and so was copper. There was
higher production also of lead
t and zinc, with a drop in tin.
Gold production “was up a
little.
Output of coal was slightly
higher, while the production of
electricity, both hydro and
thermal, exhibited a consider-
able growth.
Away from cement (which
is going in large quantities
into city buildings and heavy
construction!, there has been a
quietness throughout the
building - materials section.
Bricks and tiles are down a
little, and so is fibro-cement,
but not much either. Timber
output seems to have varied
only slightly.
Builders’ Fittings
Bath-heaters are generally
down, while stoves are selling
better. Demand for baths has
dropped, but production of
sinks, particularly the stainless-
steel variety, has continued to
move upwards.
Coarse chemicals have
generally been in greater pro-
duction, with a steady demand
for paint until quite recently.
There is a continuing
demand for floor-coverings,
with output up 14 p.c. during
the 11 months to May 31. But
there are many new manufac-
turers in the carpet industry,
and some are not doing well.
Soap Output Down
One of the most striking
declines in output has been in
the soap industry. Soap,
soap-powders and cleansers
have all been meeting with a
reduced inquiry.
Orders for pedal-bicycles
have fallen-off noticeably ;
prams and pushers are not
meeting with the previous
year’s demand, either.
There has been a drop also
in output of fractional-horse-
power motors which go largely
into domestic appliances, and
sales of refrigerators are still
falling, as is demand for
washing-machines, radios and
radiograms. But there has been
a big lift in output of
vacuum-cleaners, and in May a
record output of TV-sets—
-18,790 was registered.
Demand is still below original
expectations. Handirons and
toasters are still selling well.
The Clothing Trade
Australian-made clothing is
finding a mixed market. Out-
put of basic cotton and woollen
yarn and fabric is up, but
demand for men’s clothing is
generally down. Generalising
again, it seems that sales of
women’s clothing are fairly
stable, with the exception of
hosiery and corsets.
Shortly before the close of
the financial year the Common-
wealth Department of Trade
reported that market conditions
have been better in 1957 than
in 1956, but “buyers at all
levels' remain cautious, and
competition is keen.” In most
industries production was-
closely linked to sales or orders,
though some manufacturers
were holding production below
sales-levels in order to reduce
stocks. Others (mainly in the
plant, equipment and
machinery group) have main-
tained production above
current level of orders, thus
reducing their backlog of
unfilled orders.
Consumer-Spending
The Department of Trade,
in its survey of manufacturing
activities, said that consumer-
spending continued at the
relatively high level of a year
ago, “though the pattern has
been influenced by changes in
the demand for individual
products.” Reduced competi-
tion from imports was help-
ing some industries.
“There is no shortage of
hire-purchase funds for financ-
ing or consumer purchases,”
the survey went on. “How-
ever, overtime earnings over
award payments have been
reduced, and buyers are show-
ing more discrimination betwen
products and exercising more
caution in their spending.
With rural incomes at a high
level and increased earnings
following the recent [April]
basic-wage decision, consumer-
spending could lift moderately
over the next few months.”
Increased rural incomes have
been reflected in better sales
of farm-machinery, pumps,
irrigation-equipment, fertilisers
and steel products.
Costs Still Rising
Against a generally patchy
background for production
and sales, costs continue to
rise, though at a reduced rate.
Manufacturers have been
generally able to offset the
inflation by efficiency or
economies, and price-increases
have been few, while there
have been some price-reduc-
tions. Higher prices for wool,
though, have been particularly
difficult for the textile industry
to absorb, and have in some
cases been passed on.
“Costs of overheads, trans-
port and services have con-
tinued to increase,” says the
survey. “Inter-State shipping-
freight rates increased in
October, 1956 (but some reduc-
tions in road-transport charges
were reported). Electricity
charges in N.S.W. increased
slightly. Overseas shipping-
freights increased by about 14
p.c. in February, 1957.
Increases in land-tax and
municipal rates were reported.”
Keener Competition
Summarised, the position
seems to be one of keen com-
petition except in key raw-
material industries, but with
overseas competition for some
lines slackening a little (though
the Japanese factor is still an
unknown quantity); on the
other hand, costs threaten to
increase, and will require off-
setting by more efficiency or
greater economies if profits are
not to suffer.
The present policy of credit-
restriction is aimed at curb-
ing rising costs, but at the
same time it has been a factor
in making buyers more
cautious. Still, though unem-
ployment is a little more
noticeable than usual, there is
not much to indicate that the
consumer-spending boom has
been more than checked, with
buyers becoming more prudent
and selective. This is necessary
to the health of industry as a
whole. It tends, when effective
in good time, in preventing
overexpansion of ventures like
President Consolidated, that
unfortunate refrigerator-manu-
facturer.


£
' 1
How much of
Your Estate
will your beneficiaries get?
Specialised experience in the intricacies of
Estate Administration may well prove of con-
siderable advantage to you—and your depen-
dants. Union Trustee’s comprehensive services
—available at moderate charges, limited by
Law—ensure fullest conservation of your assets
and continuous, competent control of your
Estate. Phone, write or call. There is no
charge—no obligation.
u nTo n
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(incorporated in Victoria) Established IMS
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
b corral Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riierina;
S. L. G. MacDonald. Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE;
The Hon Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E.. Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish: Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: A. B. Tilemann. Assistant ManagcrrA. G. W. Dent.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District Representative
for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher. 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT27a
Steel Exports
STEEL has become an im-
portant income - earner
among our exports. For 1956-
57 the value of
shipped abroad was £27 million,
against £7 million in the pre-
ceding year.
Just at present the volume of
Australian steel production is
approaching three-millon tons
a year, a large increase on the
figure of two years ago.
Steel exports in 1956-57 were
almost the same as the export-
value for sugar and for butter.
Zinc brought in £lO million,
lead £37 million. Titanium
and zirconium at £lO million
equalled the value of zinc
exports.
The 1957-58 financial year
has begun with the price for all
metals down.
The Balance of Payments
[From Canberra]
TAESPITE the fact that over-
seas shipping companies
dragged £ll5 million out of the
pockets of Australians for
freights during 1956-57, the
Commonwealth succeeded in
increasing Australia’s overseas
reserves by £2lO million in that
period.
Authoritative circles in Can-
berra believe this to be no
mean feat, especially as a
further £6B million went out of
Australia in remittances for
films, insurance charges and
other outgoings of money.
This buoyancy of the
economy, as revealed by the
Federal Treasury, indicates
that there may be a further
easing of import-restrictions
from the beginning of the next
calendar year.
Already this year the
Government eased restrictions
to the tune a of £75 million, and
a further easing will probably
bring Australia’s imports bill
next year to about £BOO million,
while exports are expected to
top the £ 1000-million mark.
A break-up of Australia’s
overseas dealings last financial
year reveals some interesting
transactions,
Mainly because of a big
increase in wool earnings, Aus-
tralia’s exports rose to the
record figure of £9BO million
for the year, a jump of £2OB
million on the previous year.
With imports down by £ll2
million to £717 million, this
left a balance on the “current
account” of £263 million —the
first favorable balance for more
than four years.
Then shipowners and others
stepped in, however, to take
£lB3 million in freights, remit-
tances and the like, leaving a
balance of £BO million.
Thanks to loan-raisings over-
seas, and capital investment
both by companies and
individuals from overseas, Aus-
tralia netted another £l3O
million, bringing the total
improvement to £2lO million.
In the previous year the
movement was a reverse one of
£73 million.
On June 30, 1957, Australia’s
accumulated overseas funds
stood at £565 million, against
£355 million a year earlier.
Tine Lesson of Yanrey
(From L,. Owen]
A FTER the Yanrey well had
been spudded-in, 1 made
an analysis of its oil-prospects,
pointing out that —in my
opinion they were poor.
Yanrey, however, beat me to
the gun by striking “unpros-
pected metamorphic” base-
ment rock at 1395 ft. without
passing through any sand-
stone and without encountering
even a whiff of gas or oil. To
avoid the suspicion of attempt-
ing to appear wise after the
event, I had to modify my
article by including the news
that the well was dry.
Some time previously I had
questioned the soundness of the
technique adopted in the search
for oil under the Carnarvon
Basin (B. 16/1/ ’57), and I
had asked “why north-east, and
why is the surface trend of the
major axis of the Rough
Range dome being followed?”
That question has not been
answered, but both the Rough
Range 10 and Yanrey wells
have shown that the official
interpretation of the structure
at depth was in error. The
writing on the wall should
have been obvious enough with
the absence of the Birdrong
sandstone in Cape Range 3.
At the very least, that hiatus
was proof that the pre-
Cretacecus landscape —on
which the Birdrong sandstone
was deposited had not
attained the “old-age” stage of
erosion, although it may have
reached maturity.
Now, Yanrey has proved the
survival of quite considerable
hills on the pre-Cretaceous
surface.
Such accidentation is to be
anticipated, of course, near the
edges of a depositional basin
of the Carnarvon type, and it
is remarkable that data from
gravity-meter and seismic sur-
veys had not been more criti-
cally analysed in view of that
possibility.
Misinterpretation of geo-
physical anomalies, produced
bv buried landscapes, as due
to geological structure is not
uncommon. Within my per-
sonal experience it happened in
the late 1920’s when a company
by whom I was employed spent
—against my advice—what was
then a very considerable sum
on a torsion-balance survey of
a coastal swamp area,
From extensive fieldwork at
outcrop, I was satisfied that the
down-faulting of the area m
question had occurred after


Holders of Commonwealth
Bonds and
Semi-Government Loans
lh%
Are you satisfied with the 3i% to 4| % you are
at present receiving? You CAN receive l\ c /c per
annum. £l,OOO invested at I\ % earns £375 in five
years. At 3i% it earns only £156. Why not have
the extra £219?
The Commercial Credit Corporation of Australia
Limited (established 29 years) will purchase your
Commonwealth Treasury Bonds at FULL FACE
VALUE provided the amount is lodged on fixed
deposit with the Corporation for five years at 7-2 %
per annum.
Semi-Government Loans and other below-par stocks
may be acceptable. Write giving full particulars of
your holdings.
PAID UP CAPITAL £250,000
ASSETS EXCEED £500,000
The Commercial Credit
Corporation of Australia Ltd.
Union Building, Bond St., Sydney.
(ESTABLISHED 1929.)
THE SECRETARY,
COMMERCIAL CREDIT CORP. OF AUST. LTD.,
Box 4044, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please forward particulars of your plan to pure-base Com-
monwealth Bonds at full face value.
Name
(Mr., Mrs., Miss)
Address
any possible oil-beds had been
eroded from the old surface,
Unfortunately, my interpreta-
tion proved correct, and the
drill entered the highly dis-
turbed strata of the old, down-
faulted landscape immediately
below the blanket of recent
beds, but without meeting any
trace of the oil-sands which.
were producing not far inland,
In fairness to the torsion-
balance surveyors, who worked
under very difficult conditions,
I should state that the dis-
turbed beds were reached at
depths not differing very greatly
from those at which they had
predicted domes and basins,
en echelon.
It is to be hoped that the
failure of the Yanrey well to
live up to unwarranted expecta-
tions will not lead to the
abandonment of the search for
oil under the Carnarvon Basin,
On the contrary, it is trusted
that, with its customary
courage, the company con-
cerned will again re-examine
and revalue all the geological
and geophysical data available
to it. The Carnarvon Basin —
as I have held consistently and
still firmly believe —is still the
most promising oil-prospect on
the Australian mainland.
I would stress —with all the
emphasis possible that the
tectonic conditions which led to
long periods of non-rhvthmic
deposition (B. 27/2/’57) over
restricted areas of the Carnar-
von Basin should be investi-
gated thoroughly. As an aid,
the current hydrometric investi-
gation of the Birdrong sand-
stone bores will be useful.
Even more importantly, inten-
sive and exhaustive studies at
outcrop of the pre-Cretaceous
strata are essential. The cost
of such an investigation, even
if it increases the present
geological expenditure four-
fold, wilt still be under a
quarter of the amount allotted
to geophysical surveys.
Air Transrort
T>ROBLEMS encountered by
Australian National Air-
ways over the past year which
led to the negotiations for a
takeover by the Common-
wealth Government, and later
with Ansett and other interests,
add interest to the Federal
Treasury’s analysis of the
whole industry, made available
last week.
In the nine months to
March, 1957, the weight of
freight carried by air in Aus-
tralia was about 12 p.c. less
than in the corresponding
period of 1955-56. The posi-
tion seemed to be growing
worse as the period advanced:
in the March quarter the
freight carried was almost 18
p.c. down on the March
quarter of 1956, and pre-
liminary estimates for April
and May suggest a drop in
those months also.
Passenger traffic, on the
other hand, improved.
The number of passengers
embarked and the number of
passenger-miles flown in the
nine months to March 31 were
respectively 3.7 p.c. and 6.7
p.c. greater than in the
corresponding period of 1955-
56. The number of passengers
embarked and the number of
passenger-miles flown were
respectively 1.4 p.c. and 5 p.c.
greater in the March quarter
than in the corresponding
period of 1956, and preliminary
estimates show this trend to be
continuing.
Overall, however, it is clear
that the year to June 30 last
was not an easy one for the
airways industry, especially in
view of rising costs and the
high capital outlay required for
aircraft-replacement.
The M.L.C. Building
T>ULKING above the sky-
line, and surmounting the
arch of the Sydney Harbor
Bridge, the new head-office
building of the Mutual Life
and Citizens’ Assurance, from
its vantage-point on the sand-
stone outcrop of North Sydney,
has a sweeping, unobstructed
view of the whole Sydney
metropolis,
The “Top-of-the-Mark,” on
Nob Hill, in San Francisco,
isn’t in it.
The M.L.C. building cost
over £4 million, and its 14
stories provide a floor-space of
about 10 acres. It is the largest
commercial and professional
building in the Commonwealth,
and will be officially opened by
Prime Minister Menzies on
August 22.
The rest of the North Sydney
area, apart from the modern
buildings of the A.M.P.
Society, becomes, structurally,
an anachronism alongside the
M.L.C. building, and full
executive and staff amenities
(“inbuilt") have been provided
accordingly in the building
itself. The staff cafeteria is
large, modernistic and readily
convertible into a concert-hall
or ballroom.
Office-partitions are remov-
able for re erection without
disturbing the ceiling or floor,
and te’ephone- and power-con-
nections are available at 6ft
intervals all over the vast floor-
space.
A special room (almost a
department) is set aside for the
electronic computer which will
do much of the calculating-
work which is an essential part
of a life-office’s operations.
Curiously, the A.M.P.
Society, another life-assurance
office, took the first tentative
step over to North Sydney,
and erected one of the first new
office-buildings in'the post-war
period. It is now completing
another alongside. But it wiil
erect its new -head-office at
Circular Quay.
All these new life-assurance
buildings have, or will have,
splendid views of the harbor.
In its issue of 17/7/’57 The
Bulletin published a Mc-
Gregor joke-block in which
a clerk was depicted saying to
his boss: “I’m not concerned
about the money, sir, but I
was wondering if I might be
promoted to a desk with a view
of the harbor?”
The morning the issue
appeared the A.M.P. Society
phoned to buy the original.
It was hardly off the phone
when the M.L.C. rang with the
same request.


"Don’t damage his skin, Ulrig, or I'll have nothing to wear!"


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK. Virutorr.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursts
Sherry at Macleay Street
Because of an unfortunate
misunderstanding, this writer
arrived at Terry Clune’s new
art-gallery at 59 Macleay
Street, Potts Point, Sydney, too
early, or too late, to see much
of the pictures, but in plenty
of time to drink sherry and
to view a rich collection of
Sydney art-lovers, columnists,
social writers, artists, celebrities
of one sort and another..
Hal Missingham, Director of
the National Art Gallery,
opened the show ; the paintings
(or perhaps the artists) were
nominated by James Gleeson,
a daily-newspaper art-critic;
young Terry Clune is the son
of Frank Clune, popular author,
genial host, and something of
a patron of the arts. People
kept crowding in from Mac-
leay Street, shaking the hand
of Mr. Frank Clune and Mr.
Terry Clune, being handed a
glass of sherry, and merging
within, until the scene was not
unlike a gay and elegant
Asiatic atrocity: too many
people in too small a space,
and more remorselessly arriv-
ing.
Not, to be fair, that anyone
seemed in actual distress ; and,
of the crowd itself was
proof of success. But among
so many distinguished and
animated human faces it was
a little difficult to sort out the
pictures.
Of these there were a great
many, and most of them were
abstract. Since abstract art is
not this particular writer’s glass
of sherry, it would, perhaps, be
fairer not to comment on them.
They were, perhaps, very
stimulating ; or meaningless—•
depending entirely on the eye
of the beholder, as with a blot
of ink in a well-known psycho-
logical test, or a savage’s reac-
tion to a sunset. Assorted sun-
sets or ink-blots, they were too
crowded —which seems legiti-
mate criticism.
Behind Mr. Erik Langker’s
tall head this writer did glimpse
a rich glow of red brick —Sali
Herman’s “After the Rain-
storm, Bathurst,” which, as far
as he could see, seemed quite
the best thing in the gallery ;
and behind Mr. Jim Mc-
Dougall’s buttonhole, a pair
of small paintings by William
Dobell, “The Thatchers” and
“Portrait of a Lady.” Both
were in this artist’s “dim”
style, and neither could be
classed as equal to his best, or,
indeed, the general average level
of his work. But the portrait
had a certain cobwebby charm.
But the interesting thing
about the exhibition is that it
serves as a sort of official intro-
duction of a new gallery to
the public; if a small per-
centage of the public who drank
sherry there on Friday after-
noon buy paintings, it is, no
doubt, amply justified.
J. F.
*l* *** ❖
Arnold Shore
“Forty Years Seek and Find”
is the title Arnold Shore has
given to his retrospective
exhibition at the Australian
Galleries, Collingwood, and the
pictures hung have presumably
been selected to illustrate the
title.
Shore went first to the
National Gallery school in
search of beauty. Dissatisfied
with what it taught, he went to
Max Meldrum. Meldrum
sought Nature’s accent and
taught a method by which he
believed that accent could be
attained to. The influence of
Meldrum is apparent in Shore’s
early pictures painted between
1917 and 1930, a self-portrait,
“Mandarins,” “Chinese Figure”
and “The Circus” —which was
hung in his first exhibition at
the Athenaeum in 1929 —and in
“Ranunculi,” hung at the Salon
d’Automne.
Subsequently Shore left
Meldrum to open the Bell and
Shore art school in George
Bell’s studio, Toorak. During
this period “Belladonna” was
painted. Other influences are
apparent in his later pictures—-
Matisse, possibly, as much as
any.
Max Middleton has been
casting an eye over Spain,
Holland, Italy and G. 8., and
the fruits of his survey are on
exhibition at the Tasmanian
Tourist Bureau’s gallery in
Melbourne. His Italian oils,
for some reason or other, don’t
look as well measured as his
Dutch and English, though he
gives some of the bustle and
excitement of “Street Market,
Granada.” He is more subtle
in “Boat Builders, St. Ives”
than in “The Roman Forum.”
“St. Ives,” another study of that
charming seaport, is a nice
sketch.
Stage and Music
“Double Image”
This play, by Roger Mac-
Dougall and Ted Allan on a
story by Roy Vickers, is com-
posed of a series of situations
which are at once comic and
bewildering, with overtones of
menace.
It would be interesting to
see it all played with the
light approach of “Arsenic and
Old Lace” or “Kind Hearts and
Coronets” a thought
prompted by the ending of the
play, which particularly lends
itself to a certain “zaniness” in
the principal player’s final exit,
which is made with the
devastating aplomb of someone
obviously as mad as a hatter.
The play is not written for the
denouement of the regular
“whodunit,” and a treatment
of the “high fantastical” would
give it sparkle, which it notably
lacks.
The performance has already
been reviewed on this page by
The Bulletin’s Melbourne
commentator, who was appro-
priately bewildered by the ques-
tion of whether Ernest Fan-
shaw was murdered by his
nephew Julian, or by Julian's
twin, if he existed. The present
writer was equally confused.
Graceful if a trifle colorless
performances from Emrys
Jones and Bettina Welch are
pleasantly entertaining—
although the Scotland Yard
man, the publisher-uncle and
his clerk, as played by Grant
Taylor, Noel Howlett and
Robert Levis respectively, each
shows the make-up of his
character more clearly than
do either of the two principals.
Emrys Jones, however, con-
veys without flashy histrionics
the obvious differences between
the two characters he plays,
and Bettina Welch, delicately
dressed to suit her coloring, is
a pale ghost of a woman —•
almost a subdued Elvira
strayed out of “Blithe Spirit”
to float in and out of a domestic
set-up that has lost its meaning.
The production by William
Rees is somewhat slow, appar-
ently deliberately, so that the
story proceeds at a very gentle
pace, and the old-fashioned
office and the old-made-new
fiat are effectively contrived by
J. Alan Kenyon and Cecil New-
man so that they can be shown,
when required, together on
the ope stage.
+> ❖
Efrem Kurtz
Making his second tour of
Australia —he was last here 29
years ago with Pavlova —-
Russian-born conductor Efrem
Kurtz presented Shostako-
vitch’s Symphony No. 10 as
the chief work of his first
Sydney concert.
Composed four years ago,
the Tenth is objective music on
an epic scale, set in the mould
of tragedy. Like Beethoven,
the Soviet composer has sought
to lighten in part the heaviness
by dropping in a scherzo, but
whereas the master of Bonn
offered bursts of cosmic
laughter, Shostakovitch merely
presents a solemn jester in cap
and bells. In this very short
section the agitation of the
high strings took on almost a
frenetic quality. The first
movement, though overlong (as
is the introduction to the
finale), contains very good
material, the playing of it
being notable for the splendid
work of clarinet and bassoon,
and the beautifully balanced


Position Wanted
LADY, refined, pleasing personality and
appearance, seeks position to manage
home for gentleman. Prefer to live
as a member, of the family. High social
references. Box 55 a, G.P.0., Melbourne.
■
.<&>&■.^i-VSAGHT
mi
r
grain storage \
saves time-money 1
• Heavy gauge galvanized steel sheets
• Easily erected permanent
• Rodent and weatherproof
* • Kinged type bag holder
on 1000-8500 Bushel Silos
• Steel earth rings and
loading platforms are
available as extras if
required
• Prompt delivery
icets
J
LYSAGHT
Grain Silos
EARTH RING
An earth ring, which is an extra
ring of corrugated steel sheets
filled with earth or sand, is a
most effective and economical
method of erecting an elevated
base for your Lysaght Silo. The
use of an ea-th ring reduces the
risk of underground seepage.
Full details are available on
request.
AUGERS
A completely new type grain
auger is now available to fill
and empty Lysaght Silos.
AND AUGERS
PRICES (F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
Write for further information to:
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. in all Capital Cities or
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED. NEWCASTLE WORKS
S2SAC
accompaniment by the pizzi-
cato violins and violas.
The other symphony was
Mozart’s 29th in A Major.
This effervescently gay product
of, the composer’s 18th year is
a good example of how genius
can take the most disarmingly
simple of themes and build
to an exquisite work of
art. The orchestra comprising
only strings and horns revelled
in the graceful figurations
which interlard the chief
melodic threads. The playing
of the muted fiddles in the
andante was something to
remember.
A wrist-injury having
precluded the programmed
appearance of pianist Carlo
Busotti, the conductor’s wife
Elaine Shaffer filled-in with
Mozart’s Flute Concerto No.
1, K 313. Commanding a fine,
pure tone, the soloist shone in
the more spectacular work of
the cadenzas.
❖ ❖ *t*
Organ Society
About 100 organ-enthusiasts
rolled-up to the Chapter House
adjoining St. Andrew's
Cathedral for the opening of
the Sydney Organ Society’s
two-day convention.
Sir Bernard Heinze did the
honors, and everyone trooped
into the Cathedral for a recital
by David Barkla Boyce’s
Introduction and Trumpet
Tune, with the heavy reed-stop
pitted against a network of
silvery diapasons ; Arne’s lilting
Gigue from the Concerto in
B Flat; the solemn C Minor
Fantasia and Fugue of Bach ;
a Vierne Intermezzo, and
Herbert Howells’s Rhapsody,
Op. 17, No. 2—the pianissimo
ending somewhat marred by a
squeal of bus-brakes from
George Street. Last on the
programme was Mulet’s
Carillon (played once and for
all, last year, by Fernando
Germani).
Next day, the convention
moved uptown to St. Barnabas’
Church, Broadway, where
Neville Stephenson set the ball
rolling with a recital of Baroque
organ - music Buxtehude’s
Prelude and Fugue in E was
given a lucid reading, despite
some uneven timing. In the
Siciliane and Fugato of Mathias
Van Den Ghein the organist
didn't maintain a smooth flow,
but the next three items, one
a wistful bit of Couperin, were
played thoughtfully.
Two Brisbane Plays
Both of the two works
currently presented by Bris-
bane Repertory Theatre and
Twelfth Night Theatre are
significant modern plays.
The political implications of
the theme of “The Crucible” —
the Salem witch-hunt —are very
mych still with us, as its author,
Arthur Miller, has himself
experienced. The Tennessee
Williams “Glass Menagerie” is
neither his most publicised nor
his most violent, but it is
certainly his finest contribution
to theatre so far.
Production of “The Cru-
cible” varied. The first act had
a flatness the text does not
suggest—perhaps a misunder-
standing of the role of the
negress Tituba caused this, as
well as the monotony of set
and lighting. In the second
and third acts Gwen Wheeler
gave, as Elizabeth Proctor, her
best performance yet, and in
a vein far removed from the
modernism she generally
assumes so easily. As her
husband, Don McTaggart was
adequate when he was not
confusing vocal and histrionic
powers.
“The Glass Menagerie” was
presented by the Twelfth Night
players in a small theatre they
have made out of a disused
church. In some ways this is
a chamber-music play; four
players in all, and theirs is
modern music. Few moments
of harmony—instead, each un-
bearably fiddling on the limita-
tions of his finely-tuned string,
until the total cacophony takes
on the strange beauty of
despair.
The plot is simple. The
mother, a silly Southern belle,
now jangling out of tune with
her age, hounds her son into
bringing home a workmate to
be a “gentleman caller” upon
the plain, crippled daughter of
the household. The encounter
is a failure simply because the
caller already has a “steady,”
and he leaves, but not before he
has shown the girl that she
need not have been the frail,
glass-menagerie piece of her
own imagining.
Stuart Benson may have
been excellent as the brother,
Gwen Harris very moving as
the mother (if not enough of
the faded silly woman that the
part suggests), but fair con-
sideration of these players was
impossible beside the inexpres-
sibly tender portrayal of the
daughter by Lenore Nicklin.
VAL VALLIS.
Films
“Othello”
Failure to acknowledge any-
where in the credits-list that
Shakspeare had anything to
do with the text is only one of
several deficiencies in this
Soviet film.
Those in the acting depart-
ment include an lago (A.
Popov) of blatantly melo-
dramatic villainy—he takes the
Moor aside, looks around to
see if he is being observed, then
hisses in his ear. Rather than
a sly injection of jealousy, he
pours a dipperful of it over
the Moor’s head.
Sergei Bandarchuk, a
strikingly handsome and
almost jet-black Othello, emotes
mightily when the full impact
of jealousy strikes him, but he
is more convincing in the
scenes of remorse, and in those
immediately leading to his own
destruction.
Irena Skobtseva rarely goes
to the heart of Desdemona’s
sweetness and patience, and
she overdoes importunacy on
behalf of Cassio, but the
mounting terror on her death-
bed is a fine piece of work.
The English voices excel-
lent except for the too-thick
tones allotted the Moor—have
been skilfully dubbed-in,
the superb settings are in
color, and the cameras have
been used with imaginative
artistry. The incidental


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established, 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
‘DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman) F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Divorce Notices
TO WILLIAM GEORGE COLLIER for-
merly of Kalgoorlie and Mt. Ida Western
Australia.—TAKE NOTICE that your
wife KATHLEEN MAUDE COLLIER
has commenced proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia for Divorce on the grounds of
desertion If you desire to defend such
proceedings you must file, your defence
in the Cenlral Office of the Supreme
Court at Perth within FORTY clear
days from the date of this publication
In default of your so doing the case
may procei d and the Court will pro-
nounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. DATED the
27th day of March, 1957. —G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar.
WALSH, M \ ZZA & HEYDON, of Perth
and Fremantle, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOI TH WALES. — In Divorce.
TO CATHERINE ETHEL CSINTALAN
formerly of Redfern.—TAKE NOTICE
that FRANK WILLIAM CSINTALAN
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1047 of 19.70 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 18th October
1957 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from N. A. A. PRIM-
ROSE, Solicitor, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGIIAN,
Registrar.
Public Notice
WOULD ANY PERSON KNOWING
ANY PARTICULARS especially regis-
tered number and/or owner and/or name
of driver of a semi trailer travelling
from Holbrook along the Hume High-
way in the direction of Sydney at about
7.15 a.m. on the morning of Friday,
10th May, 1957, which is believed to
have caused an accident involving a
1947 Holden sedan car about 10 miles
north of Holbrook at that time, kindly
write to MESSRS. KESSELL, BROWNE
& CO., Solicitors, 117 Pitt Street,
Sydney ?
DUPLICATOR
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Has all the finest features'
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typinq, Writing, Plans,
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold St Co. Pty. Ltd,
• Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd,
• , Vardon Price Ltd.
• Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
score by Khachaturian rises
above mediocrity on only a few
occasions.
<* ❖
“Reach for the Sky”
This screen-version of Paul
Brickhill’s biography of
Douglas Bader follows the
book with admirable fidelity,
and is in line with the best
Service films which have come
from British studios. It is also
an example of excellent casting
—it would be hard to find any
actor more suited than
Kenneth More to portray the
indomitable wing-commander.
The film is free of mawkish
sentimentality and conscious
nobilities. Bader is shown, in
fact, as distinctly earthy and,
in the early part of his flying-
career, as somewhat brash ;
More manages to impart the
devil-may-care air and the
swagger, making him always a
thoroughly likeable fellow ; and
he shrewdly superimposes on
this the air of easy authority as
his responsibilities grow.
The battle-scenes, aided by
actual shots from the R.A.F.
library, are good, and those of
the prison-camps have a ring of
authenticity. The badinage and
the humor are of the kind that
have lent distinction to so
many British films of Service
life.
The film ends with the great
fly-past over London at the
war’s end, which Bader was
given the signal honor of lead-
ing
Muriel Pavlov adds a charm-
ing touch of romance as the
girl he married.
At Sydney State.
♦jt
“The Great Man”
Intense and cynical drama
about a radio-reporter who,
commissioned to gather
material for an obituary on a
radio “personality” beloved by
millions of listeners and
viewers, uncovers instead a
heap of unsavory facts about
the late one’s life. Jose Ferrer,
who also directed the film,
gives another of his clever
character - studies as the
reporter who whimsically
decides to satisfy a sudden
craving to tell unvarnished
truth whatever the cost. He
gets good backing from Dean
Jagger, as the razor-sharp
trump, and Keenan Wynn, as a
hard arid hard-drinking radio-
executive without one illusion
or one scruple left in his
locker. A Greater Union
release.
“Silk Stockings”
This frothy confection at
Sydney Liberty is a remake of
“Ninotchka,” tunefully em-
broidered by Cole Porter. The
droll tale is of an unsmiling,
trusted girl party-member who
comes out of the Soviet to
order home three under-Com-
missars who have failed to
persuade a Soviet musician to
return and write ideological
music in Russia, only to fall
herself for the irresistible charm
of Paris in spring and a
capitalistic dancer.
Fred Astaire, as ageless as
ever, partners Cyd Charisse in
some imaginative dances and
brings an easy natural manner
to the role of a talent-seeking
theatrical-producer.
The three off-the-chain
Russkis supply most of the
comedy, including one glorious
skit on the benefits of life in
Siberia.
♦j*
“II Grande Giuoco”
In this French-Italian film,
showing at Sydney Savoy, a
young French shyster-lawyer
bolts to Algiers when his own
and his mistress's extravagance
put him outside the law. She
fails to follow as arranged, and
he joins the Foreign Legion “to
forget.’’ Four years later he
returns from chasing the wild
heathen to meet her again in
Algiers. This time she is a
camp-follower of the Legion,
and after some trouble in
getting her to recognise him he
lives with her for the next year
until he is discharged. Then—
his original mistress casts-up
(doing very nicely as someone
else’s mistress, thank you) and
the poor fellow realises he has
been tricked into living with
her double. So what does he
do but rush back into the
Legion to bash sand for another
five years at a couple of sous
a day—which proves that he’s
no more right in the nut than
those who could swallow such
roaring nonsense. But Gina
Lollobrigida, in both roles,
certainly decorates the Parisian
salons and the Algerian sands.
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Gun Glory”
This follows the now-familiar
pattern of the gun-slinger who
would forget his prowess and
settle down to vegetate some-
where, but who is forced reluc-
tantly to reach for his trusty
gat when some aggressive
hombre heaves up and insists
on testing his mettle. To this
set-up is geared the time-
honored situation of the ruth-
less cattle-baron who would
ride his beef roughshod over
the peaceful citizenry, among
whom the six-shooter-fancier is
then numbered. Naturally the
latter, in the person of Stewart
Granger, .emerges from all
these proceedings unpunctured;
but the film has pace, and the
climax has suspense worked
into it with some skill.
♦> ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Foreign Intrigue”
Following the sudden death
of a European millionaire, his
secretary (Robert Mitchum)
declines without thanks the
cynical young widow’s offer to
transfer her accommodating
affections to him, and goes to
Sweden on a self-imposed
mission to find out the source
of his late boss’s income. It
turns out to be blackmail, his
several victims being Hitler-
paid Quislings of countries in
which the Fiihrer’s armies got
no foothold. The resulting
adventures, into which Intelli-
gence of four interested
countries intrude, add-up to a
fair meed of excitement, though
at times the doings become
rather obfuscated.
Mitchum looks like an
amateur beside the two women
in the cast: the French
Genevieve Paige, as the vicious
widow, and' Swedish Ingrid
Tulean, who brings a fresh
charm and naturalness to the
role of the daughter of one
of the blackmailer’s victims.
Hoyts circuit.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“An Alligator Named
Daisy”
This, a J. Arthur Rank
offering at Sydney Lyceum, is a
rank outsider. Donald Sinden,
given a pet alligator, no more
knows what to do with it than
the director knows what he’s
doing with him (a budding
composer)—or Jean Carson (a
Welsh lass fond of anermools),
Diana Dors (the girl he is to
marry), James Robertson
Justice (her wealthy father) or
Stanley Holloway (Sinden’s
retired-colonel grandfather). It
is the amazing aspect of the
film that Daisy, a rather like-
able little creature, is able to
maintain her poise under the
duress of so stagnant a script;
she would have been quite
justified in polishing-off the rest
of the cast, with, preferably,
Miss Dors as a light entree.


The WILD CAL
COLUMN
William Adams & Co., Ltd.
SOME interesting figures were collected
in Canberra a few years ago relating
to tractors on Australia's rural holdings.
They showed that of the 170,237 wheeled-
or crawler-tractors in use on March 31,
1954, 52.3 p.c. were less than five years
old and 75.4 p.c. were less than 10 years
old, emphasising the rapid increase in
numbers since the war. In Victoria and
Tasmania, where William Adams and Co.
has its tractor-sales and -service business,
the respective percentages were rather
higher. The co. has never disclosed its
own contribution to this growth, but with
the well-known brand-names of Cater-
pillar and John Deere on its machines, it
can be said to have been a fairly important
one. Recently, with the maturing of the
first stages of the Caterpillar co.’s plans
to manufacture in Australia, some of
the problems associated with import-
controls, and, more especially, with dollar
goods, have begun to recede a little into
the distance. Initially an investment of
£6-million on its 100-acre Essendon (Vic.)
site is contemplated by the American co.
At its end William Adams has
modernised plant and buildings and
widened the reach of its tractor-sales and
-service depots. Last year, with £297,114
of fresh capital, £67,948 retained profit
and £31,171 of the bank’s and creditors’
money to spend, it completed a new
tractor service-station at Horsham (in
Victoria’s Wimmera), made additions to
the tractor-establishment at East Oakleigh
(Vic.), and, in connection with the
parent’s business, extended the Eagle
Farm (Brisbane) bulk-store and put up
a new steel warehouse at Fremantle
(W.A.). It also held £313,984 more
stock:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £725,000 £725,000 £1,167,114
Reserves .. .. 900,224 1,081,407 1,036,101
Overdraft.. .. 503,164 687,288 712,579
Creditors*.. .. 914,899 1,024,009 1,029,889
Final divs. .. 65,250 65,250 91,800
£3,108,537 £3,582,954 £4,037,483
Freeholds.. .. 377,920 518,189 066,040
Mailt, etc 165,341 210,255 229,466
Shares .. .. 34,447 38,464 42,313
Stocks .. .. 1,432,583 1,759,111 2,073,095
Debtors .. .. 1,058,322 1,025,677 1,025,190
Cash, bonds . . 39,924 1,258 1.379
£3,108,537 £3,582,954 £4,037,453
* Including provision for tax and contingencies.
Shortly, a start is to be made on re-siting
the Melbourne branch of the parent co.
at Brooklyn. To help finance this and
other construction work £200,000 has
been borrowed from the A.M.P. Society,
which will be repayable over 20 years,
and arrangements made for the loan of
another £200,000, before 1960, on similar
repayment terms.
Including the £297,114 subscribed last
year, permanent share-capital raised by
the co. since 1945 totalled £752,114 at
the end of April. Simultaneously with
last term’s cash issue the co. capitalised
and handed-back as a gift (one-for-five)
to shareholders £90,000 of share-
premiums gathered in during the preced-
ing decade and a £55,000 surplus arising
from a revaluation of assets. The issue
brought capital account to £1,170,000,
and it had the support of a further
£1,036,101 of reserves. Reckoning the
year’s average paid-up capital at £960,000,
the return was 22.1 p.c. A 15 p.c. div.
was maintained:
t Dividends
P'-ef.* To Re- Re-
April, Profit. 7 p.e. , Ord. ——, serves. serves.
£ £ p.e. £ £ - £
1951. .190,723 875 15 - 108,750 81,103 479,946
1952. .195,749
1953.. 176,291
William Adams and Subsidiaries.
Added on consolidation, £8543 .. 643,029
Tax overprovided, £26,535 .. .. 669,564
1954. ,200,686
Added insurance reserve, £4682 .. 766,182
Tax overprovided, £IO,OOO .. .. 776,182
1955.. 232,792
To insurance reserve, £6024 .. .. 906,248
Asset revaluation, £ 55.000 .. .. 961,248
1956 .228,909
Share premiums, £9981 .. .. 1,091,388
Reserves capitalised, £145,000 .. 946,888
Tax overprovided, £16,000 .. 962,388
To insurance reserve, £5765.. . .. 968,153
1957. .211,948
* £1 7 p.e. prefs. converted into £1 ordinary
shares, August, 1950.
The £211,948 (down £16,961) profit
claimed was written after allowing an
extra £5624 (£59,264) depreciation and
£197,054 taxation.
Bad weather and “extremely tight”
import-controls let down sales of the
tractor subsidiary, William Adams
Tractors Pty. The parent co. appears to
have had a satisfactory year. It has a
Commonwealth-wide business distribut-
ing steel, machine-tools, industrial
supplies, tubes and fittings, portable
electric-tools, etc., and taking orders for
power-generating equipment made by
Newcastle-on-Tyne (England) C. A.
Parsons and Co.
At 60s. for the old shares the
immediate return to the investor on a
15 p.c. div. basis is 5 p.c. The scrip is
secured with net tangibles of 375. 9d. a
share.
Prestige, LtcT.
CONSIDERING the fright representa-
tives of the rayon-textile industry
have been trying to give the Tariff Board
lately, shareholders’ reaction (to the
awaited sharpening of Japanese competi-
tion) has been mild enough. With one
exception the scrip of listed rayon-
weavers and piecegoods-makers has held
steady on. ’Change, perhaps because the
market considers that it has already taken
sufficient account of the likely con-
tingencies, or that the Commonwealth
Government will intervene if the
industry’s welfare is in danger.
Giving evidence at the board’s inquiry
into the request for increased protection
for artificial-fabrics, a spokesman for
the Rayon- and Cotton-weavers’ Associa-
tion of Australia said in Melbourne
last month that the position was the
most serious that had faced him in his
25 years’ experience in the textile-
industry.
In pointing out what the Australian
manufacturer is up against, he claimed
that wages in the Japanese industry were
only a sixth of wages paid by local mills.
He went on to say, also, that because of
the impact of their competition, most
European countries still maintain import-
licensing restrictions against woven rayon-
piecegoods from Japan.
Following the relaxation, earlier this
year, of Australian controls, a general
increase in textile imports can be expected
from other directions, too.
The situation prompted Prestige’s
chairman, Geo. G. Foletta, to include a
caution about the current year’s business
in his address to shareholders on July 31.
Last term a downward turn of the
import-screw gave Australian manufac-
turers their chance, and Prestige increased
its own fabric sales considerably. Hosiery
turnover, despite difficulties, was well
maintained.
Profit claimed, after excluding outside
shareholders’ interests and setting aside
substantially more depreciation (up
£64,787 to £202,850, including £19,561
special depreciation) and £44,953 extra
tax (£151,339), fell only £9716 short of
1955’s £182,599:
Prestige and Subsidiaries.*
r Dividends To Re- Re-
Mar., Loss. Pref. Old. serves, serves, f
£ p C < £, £,
1952.. 65,062 8 &5 5 p.c. = 46,762
Share premiums, £7,588 .. .. 821,100
Met addition reserves, £12,578 .. 833,678
Profit.
1953.. 620 8& 5 = 70,892 69,728 903,406
Net addition reserves, £5149 .. 908,555
1954.. 209 8& 5 74 p.c.= 70,892 92,317 1,000,872
Tax overprovided, £2513 .. ..1,003,385
Net reduction reserves, £2918 ..1,000,467
1955-185,499 8&5 9 p.c.= 81,422 104,077 1,104,544
Lose sale assets, £7446 .. ... 1,097,098
Tax overprovided, £3229 .. .. 1,100,327
Unexplained reduction, £2963 .. 1,097,364
1956.. 182.599 8 & 5 10 p.e.= 98,440 84,159 1,181,523
Tax underprovided, £BOB .. ..1,180.715
Loss sale assets, £4830 .. .. 1,175,885
From plant reserve, £183,621.. .. 992,264
Intangibles written-off, £19,384 .. 972,880
Unexplained additions, £2776 .. 975,656
1957-172,883 8 &5 10 p.c.= 98,632 74,251 1,049,907
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
1 Subject to intangibles, £93,513 at 31/3/’57.
But in comparing results, in addition to
the bigger provisions mentioned, some
weight should also be attached (in the
opposite direction) to the effect of the
transfer of approximately 73.6 p.c. of the
share-capital of H. G. Foletta and Co.
Pty., and Follco (Aust.) Pty., to Prestige,
Ltd. The purchase became effective at
the end of September, and all profits
earned from October 1 on were included
in last year’s consolidated accounts.
Cost of the shares was £635,878,
which was satisfied by the issue of an
equivalent amount of 1\ p.c. unsecured
notes. They will be redeemable on
September 30, 1966, or, should the co.
decide, at any time after September 30,
1964, on six months’ notice.
On the same amount of capital then,
the £172,883 of profit covered the two
lots of pref divs. and 20.8 p.c. on the
ords., more than adequate cover for the
10 p.c. div. paid. In preceding years the
gathering on ord. capital was 22.2 p.c.,
23.8 p.c., 20.6 p.c. and 17.4 p.c. back to
1953, and dividends averaged 8| p.c. The
loss that showed up in 1952 occurred in
two of the subsidiaries, Prestige Fabrics,*
Ltd., and Dapco Pty., and was due chiefly


to the uncontrolled flow of imported
rayon-piecegoods into the country in that
year. In the light of experience gained
since then in handling our affairs,
however, a repetition of those events
seems pretty remote.
Incorporation of assets and liabilities
of the new subsidiaries seems to account
for most of the movements in group
finances between balance-dates :
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref £303,050 £478,050 £478,050
Ord. .. .. 701,978 701,978 701,978
Reserves .. .. 1,104,544 1,181,523 1,049,907
Outside interests.. 231,171 61,932 61,667
Loan .. .. 475,000 450,000 425,000
Notes ~ ..
Overdraft .. .. 774,205 751,231 474,789
Creditors .. .. 290,711 270,697 333,375
Tax provision .. ' 121,097 162,549 176,708
Final divs. .. 61,085 68,510 68,702
£4,062,841 £4,126,470 £4,406,054
Freeholds .. .. 733,415 713,402 899,944
Plant .. .. 1,353,625 1,322,561 1,124,894
Shares .. .. 70,730 70,730 47,587
Stocks .. .. 1,538,160 1,614,848 1,524,354
Debtors .. .. 340,041 383,349 642,749
Cash, bonds .. 7,486 2,196 73,0.13
Intangibles .. 19,384 19,384 93,513
£4,062,841 £4,126,470 £4,406,054
For the rest, book-values of plant and
equipment were further reduced by the
transfer to depreciation provision of
£183,621 from a reserve for the estimated
higher cost of building- and plant-replace-
ment, and £19,384 written off intangibles.
The item (£93,513) now represents the
difference between the cost of sub-
sidiaries’ shares and their net assets on
acquisition (formerly the excess over
share par-value).
Since early this year the price of the
ss. ords. has fluctuated within very
narrow limits. At the present figure of
6s. lOd. a buyer can see a return of 7.3
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
£1 prefs. stand at 235. and 15s. to
yield 6.9 p.c. and 6.6 p.c. respectively.
Net asset cover is £4 9s. sd. the prefs. and
11s. lOd. the ords.
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
THE first alteration to the paid capital
of Burns Philp (South Sea) Co.,
Ltd., since it was formed 37 years ago
took place this month, when applications
were received for 250,000 £1 ords.
(Fijian currency). Rights to the issue
fetched from 225. to 225. 10d., but many
shareholders, including the parent, Burns,
Philp and Co., took up their share of the
new scrip, which was offered at par on a
one-for-three basis. The new shares will
miss-out on the interim div. (October),
but will participate fully in subsequent
distributions.
Most of the fresh capital will go into
the development of “valuable freehold
sites” at Suva (Fiji) and additions to
the fleet of small inter-island vessels.
The co., with headquarters in Fiji, has
built-up substantial reserves, both visible
and otherwise, since it took over (for
£500,000 in scrip) the parent’s trading and
shipping business in the South Sea
Islands. Burns, Philp holds two-thirds
of the paid capital. After kicking-off
with a 10 p.c. div. the board waited until
1950 before returning to that rqte of dis-
tribution, divs. averaging 6.1 p.c. for the
20 years to 1940 and 7.8 p.c. in the follow-
ing decade. A continued 10 p.c. div. on
the enlarged capital (£1,000,000) would
require £IOO,OOO, or £36,509 less than the
net profit claimed last term.
The British Ministry of Food contract
for the purchase of copra (at prices well
above those now ruling on the open
market) expires at the end of this year,
and terms of the new contract or arrange-
ment replacing it will have considerable
bearing on trading conditions in the
Islands next year. If the contract is not
renewed, Bums, Philp has stated that it is
prepared to undertake the organisation
of an orderly marketing scheme.
The accounts don’t distinguish between
earnings from various sections of the co.,
but the directors reported further
improvement in the volume of merchan-
dise sales last term, gross profit from
all sources rising by £75,916 to £709,806.
Expenses, including an unstated amount
for taxation, took an extra £44,462
(at £436,371), and the amount written-
off for bad debts and losses increased
from £7346 to £30,159, the board claim-
ing a net profit £9659 stronger at
£136,509, after providing £94,696 (down
£1573) for depreciation:
Net To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. f —Dividends serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1950.. 96,702 10 p.c. = 75,000 21,702 848,897
Unexplained addition, £44,111 .. 893.008
1951.. 99,573 10 p.c. = 75,000 24,573 917.581
Unexplained addition, £16,463 .. 934,044
1952.. 90,441 10 p.c. = 75,000 21,441 955,485
Unexplained addition, £9563 .. 965,048
1953. .106,831 10 p.c. = 75,000 31,831 996,879
Unexplained reduction, £4865 .. 992..014
1954. .100,924 10 pte. = 75,000 25,924 1,017,938
Unexplained addition, £11,384 .. 1,029,322
1955. .1i3,137 10 p.c. = 75,000 38,137 1,067,459
Unexplained addition, £23,738 .. 1,091,197
1956. .126,850 10 p.c. = 75,000 51,850 1,143,047
Unexplained addition, £20,031 . . 1,163,078
1957. .136,509 10 p.c. = 75,000 61,509 1,224,587
The earnings, the highest yet recorded,
equalled 18.2 p.c.- of paid capital com-
pared with 16.9, 15.1, 13.4 and 14.2 p.c.
back to 1953, the return from share-
holders’ funds amounting to 6.9 p.c. There
was no change in the (10 p.c.) div.-rate.
Unexplained additions to reserves are a
regular feature of the accounts, and have
added £120,425 to shareholders’ funds
since 1950, last term’s share being
£20,031.
At the end of last term (January 31,
’57) reserves exceeded paid capital by
£474,587, and there have been no
revaluations since formation of the co.,
fixed assets going into the balance-sheet
at cost, less depreciation:
1955. 1956. 1957.
Capital .. .. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Reserves .. .. 1,067,459 1,143,047 1,224,587
Owing to subsidiary Q 88,912 664,942 679,024
Creditors, etc. . . 886,168 1,052,766 1,220,900
Final div. .. 37,500 37,500 37,500
£3,430,039 £3,648,255 £3,912,011
Properties, shipping,
etc 297,088 392,046 460,870
Shares subsid. .. 314,960 314,960 314,960
Investments .. 942,162 941,958 969,333
Stocks, etc. .. 1,254,407 1,160,629 1,224,691
Book debts .. 488,233 608,470 716,353
Cash .. .. 133,189 230,192 225,804
£3,430,039 £3,648,255 £3,912,011
A small (600 tons deadweight) vessel was
added to the fleet during the year, the
book-value of fixed assets (freeholds,
shipping, etc.) increasing by a net
£68,824, while working-capital improved
by £99,523 to £908,548.
Including the new issue, the £1 ords.
have a net tangible backing of 445. 6d.
(Fijian), the old scrip at 445. (Aust.)
returning 5 p.c. from a 10 p.c. div., at
current rates of exchange.
Robert Harper & Co., Ltd.
A GOOD recovery was made by Robert
Harper and Co., Ltd., last term, earn-
ings returning to the level achieved in the
. successful 1953-54 term despite a fall in
profit from the milling and handling of
rice.
Fluctuations in the quantity and
quality of the rice-crop have caused
“considerable anxiety” to the manage-
ment of this long-established manufac-
turer and importer of foodstuffs, and last
year the board decided to discontinue
milling the cereal, assets of the partly-
owned Echuca Rice Milling Pty. being
sold “without loss of the capital
invested.” In future Harper’s will
merchandise rice “in the normal course
of trading, avoiding the risks of serious
loss and the employment of substantial
funds.”
It was mainly a low-quality rice-crop
that caused the sharp contraction in
earnings in 1955-56, when net profit was
the lowest in the 44 years since the public
obtained an interest in the business (then
almost 50 years old). By way of contrast,
last term’s showing was the best yet (if
one ignores depreciation of the currency),
but, on the whole, variations such as this
have been rare, and a basic 8 p.c., with
bonus-additions in better years, has been
maintained for almost 40 years. Last
term’s 10 p.c. div. brought the average
rate over the last decade to 9.2 p.c.
The co. manufactures, imports and dis-
tributes grocery lines, including break-
fast-foods, jellies, flour, starch, spices,
essences, etc., factories in all States except
Tasmania supplying an Australia-wide
market.
Turnover appears to have grown at a
faster rate than earnings in the post-war
years, increased expenses, wages and
transport costs cutting into profit-
margins. Last term, however, improved
production methods helped reverse the
trend, and, although sales of products
other than rice were higher, total turn-
over (undisclosed) fell, while net profit,
claimed after providing £47,000 (up
£27,000) for taxation and £33,934 (up
£3050) for depreciation, jumped from
£22,676 to £63,792:
Dividends x
A B
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. senes, serves.*
£ £> £■ £ £ £>
1950.. 41.249 10.500 19,200 2400 9,149 575,725
Unexplained addition, £6813.... .. 582,538
Profit, sale freehold, £100,932 .. 683,470
10 p.c.
1951.. 37,581 10,500 24,000 2400 681 684,151
Unexplained addition, £942 .. .. 685,093
Profit, sale assets, £5321 .. .. 690,414
8 p.c.
1952.. 32,138 10,500 19,200 2400 38 690,452
Profit, sale assets, £5555 .. 696,007
1953.. 36,407 10,500 19,200 2400 4,307 700,314
Profit, sale assets, £504 .. .. 700,818
To long-service leave provision, £9,000 691,818
10 p.c. 6 p.c.t
1954 63,104 10,500 26,400 1200 25,004 716,822
Profit sale assets, £1714. .. .. 718,536
1955.. 58,930 10,500 28,000
To long-service leave, £3228 .. .. 735,738
Profit sale assets, £lB3 .. .. .. 735,921
Tax overprovided, £12,010 .. .. 747,931
8 p.c.
1956 22,676 10,500 22,400
Tax overprovided, etc., £3126 .. 740,833
10 p.c.
1957.. 63,792 10,500 28,000
* Subject to goodwill, £BO,OOO. f For six months.
A 2 p.c. bonus, dropped in the preced-
ing year, was added to the 8 p.c. div.,


DAVIES & COLLTSON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
C.l. Australian and Overseas Patents
and Trade Marks. — Advt.
ISIS
sßHSisia
aii-
Si
SiSi!
i..
iii
ill
4 >
HMf
A FINANCIAL 1
BULWARK.
for thousands
of Australians
FOR ALL CLASSES
OF LIFE ASSURANCE
AND PERSONAL
ACCIDENT INSURANCE
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. ,
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY. BW 8061
* *
DIRECTORS: E. W. Robinson, Esq., Chairman;
Col. R. S. Goward, C.8.E.; P. H. Phillips, Esq.;
T. Keith Smith, Esq.; C. W. Rothe, Esq.;
S. J. Gandon, Esq.
Gen. Manager: W. J. Cooksey, B.Sc., F.F.A.
C jhfaC u
UT WATER 5
WATER SOFTENERS
Tor the home
bi Industry
In Hard Water Areas
6 Steam Raising Plants for Hospitals.
• Manufacturing Processes.
• Manual, Semi-automatic, Fully Automatic.
• Specialised equipment for Farm and Station
Purposes.
*4
FILTRITE Water Filters
Clear, crystal water for
every purpose. The home,
Institute use, Industry,
Swimming Pools, Town
Supply. Specialised equip-
ment for Farm and Station
purposes.
DEIONIZATION
This makes it possible to
obtain a water which is
the equivalent of a triple
distilled water, free from
all dissolved solids, and at
a fraction of the cost of
distillation.
W. G. UTTING & CO. PTY. LTD,.
T. & G. Building,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE. 88998 - 85097
Contractors to State and Commonwealth Governments.
Manufacturers of all types of Water Treatment
Plants, both Industrial and Domestic.
earnings covering the pref. div.
and 19 p.c. on ord. capital,
compared with 4.3 p.c. and
17.3 p.c. in the ’56 and ’55
terms. Sizeable reserves
(£336,125 greater than share-
capital) were employed to
achieve this earning-rate, the
return from total share-
holders’ funds amounting to
a modest 5.3 p.c. Paid
capital, including £150,000 in
7 p.c. prefs., has remained
unchanged at £430,000 since
1931, but 46,000 £1 B ords.,
with limited div.-participation,
were replaced with fully-
participating scrip in 1953.
Finances are comfortable —
and have been for quite some
time —last term seeing an
improvement of £19,456 in
working - capital (£335,772),
following a £61,895 cut in the
overdraft and a reduction of
£24,282 in the amount owing
to creditors:
Paid capital— 1956. 1957.
Prcf. .. £150,000 £150,000
Ord 280,000 280,000
Reserves .. 737,707 766,125
Overdraft .. 75,010 13,115
Creditors, etc. ~ 118,366 94,084
Tax provision .. 20,000 63,881
Staff fund .. • 24,442 25,432
Final dividend.. 11,200 16,800
£1,416,725 £1,409,437
Freeholds .. 415,888 431,382
Plant, etc. .. 311,157 304,975
Investments .. 43,996 43,996
Stocks .. .. 357,970 351,684
Debtors .. 166,424 173,143
Govt, securities,
cash, etc. .. 40,940 24,257
Goodwill, etc. .. 80,350 80,000
£1,416,725 £1,409,437
To keep pace with the expand-
ing (and competitive) home
market, the board has plans to
increase output and to intro-
duce further improvements in
production and handling pro-
cedures. A new warehouse
and office will be erected
shortly at Granville (Sydney),
financed with proceeds from
the sale of an inner-city pro-
perty, while plans are being
prepared lor a factory to be
built on a 14-acre site near
Melbourne and purchased in
the preceding term.
A sound, if unspectacular,
stock, the f.-p. £1 ords. have
a net tangible cover of 695.
(including an investment
reserve), and at 325. 6d. would
return 6.1 from a 10 p.c. div.
Southern Motors Holdings
A LTHOUGH new-car regis-
' trations are still below the
level ruling when the “Little
Budget” was announced (in
March, ’56), distributors of
Holden vehicles can look
forward to selling an even
greater number of cars in 1957
than the record 49,440 they put
on the road in 1956, figures
released by the Acting
Commonwealth Statistician
showing that 28,225 new
Holdens were registered during
the first half of this year,
compared with 21,502 in the
corresponding period last year.
The popularity of the Aus-
tralian car is behind the pros-
perity of Southern Motors
Holdings, Ltd., which, in the
two years since it was formed
to take over one of Melbourne’s
four Holden distributors, has
woi> profits equal, in total, to
92.7 p.c. of its paid capital.
The holding-co. paid
£lBO,OOO in scrip for the share-,
capital of the 26-year-old
Southern Motors Pty., founda-
tion-shareholders putting up
£50,000 to take paid capital to
£230,000. Shortly after these
transactions the public snapped-
up 320,000 ss. ords. offered for
sale at par by existing share-
holders.
Revaluation surplus and un-
distributed profits taken-over
were worth a net £68,137, giving
reserves a good start, and,
despite a p.c. div.-rate,
each f.-p. ss. share had a net
tangible backing of 9s. 2d.
on April 30 last: —
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £230,000 £230,000
.Reserves .. ... 125,261 193,207
Creditors .. 155,570 159,778
Tax provision .. 77.450 69,817
Pinal div. ... 23,000 23,000
£611,281 £675,802
Freeholds .. 208,691 227,652
Leaseholds .. 1,156 1,999
Plant .. .. 25,014 25,054
Stock .. .. 106,263 130,792
Debtors .. .. 144,466 149,011
Cash, etc. ~ 125,691 141,294
£611,281 £675,802
Extensions to the main service-
station at North Melbourne
contributed to the £18,961
increase in the book-value
(mainly 1955 valuation) of free-
holds last term, while a second
used-car lot was opened in the
suburbs, this time at St. Kilda.
Stocks, shown “at the lowest
of cost, market or replacement
value,” increased by £24,529
(or 23 p.c.) over the year, but
this didn’t prevent an improve-
ment in the liquid position,
cash, etc., increasing by £15,603
to £141,294.
The board doesn’t disclose
either turnover or the number
of new vehicles sold, but,
although strong competition
was experienced in the new-car
market last term, demand for
the Holden and Pontiac
vehicles handled by the co. was
well maintained, and net earn-
ings (to April 30 last) were
a little (£2635) stronger at
£108,079. However, the lower


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting: Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
provision for taxation, down
£7295 at £69,817, suggests a
slip in taxable earnings, pro-
vision being made in the pre-
views term (and subsequently
utilised) for tax on a profit
same what larger than that
actually claimed:
Parent and Subsidiary.
Re-
Apr., Profit. / Dividends serves.
£ £ £
Prelim, exp. w/off, £4996.. 63,141
Goodwill written/off, £3074 60,067
’60..105,444 174 p.c. 40,250 125,261
Tax overprovided, £ll7 .. 125,378
*67.. 108,079 p.c. 40,250 193,207
The earnings equalled 46.9 p.c.
on paid capital, compared with
45.8 p.c. in 1956, shareholders’
funds, as they stood at the
beginning of the term, return-
ing 30.4 p.c.
A greater number of new
Holdens will be available from
General Motors - Holden’s,
Ltd., in the current year and
the board is confident of
“successfully merchandising”
the increased quota —any reduc-
tion in the rate of sales-tax
applicable to motor - cars
making their task so much
easier.
At 13s. 3d. the f.-p. ss. ords.
would return 6.7 p.c. from a
\l\ p.c. div.
Mt. Isa Mines, Ltd.
Af OUNT ISA MINES, LTD.,
has taken a prospecting-
concession area of 884 square
miles about 80 miles n.-w,
of Townsville (Q.), skirting
the western side of the
Seaview Range 34 miles
to the headwaters of Running
River and, more or less, follow-
ing the south side of that river
as the southern boundary for
26 miles. The area is on the
Kangaroo Hills Mineral Field.
The concession is a general
one, the field having produced
lead, copper, silver, tin,
wolfram, scheelite, antimony
and a little gold much the
same as more northern fields —
and the present examination
may locate other metals or
minerals.
R. L. Jack in 1892 and J. H.
Reid in 1931 reported on the
Running River silver - lead
lodes, other reports being made
by geologists Cameron,
Shepherd, St. Smith, Connah,
etc., on copper, tin, wolfram,
etc., the latter two on tinmines
around Ewan, including the
Sardine, now producing a
copper-tin ore.
Broken Hill Proprietary in
1941 checked the alluvial-tin
prospects in the upper portion
of Running River, and, it is
believed, also inspected areas
further north and to the west.
Deep tin-leads are being
worked at Fifteen - mile
(Kalanda), and lode-tin near by
in the Waverley area, as well as
lead west of Ewan and
wolfram up Running River, but
the field generally has been at
a low ebb for many years.
N.A.U.C.
THE tone of last week’s report
from the N.A.U.C. board
leaves little room for optimism,
and “the prospects of an early
return to shareholders” referred
to halfway through last term
appear to have evaporated with
the further examination of the
Milestone (N.T.) reservation.
Testing of the most promis-
ing prospects is either com-
pleted, or nearing completion,
and, with the exception of the
Cobar 2 prospect, where a
quantity of pitchblende ore was
discovered, has been unreward-
ing—or, as the recently recon-
structed board rather quaintly
puts it, “demands a negative
appraisal.” The area is now
regarded as one of “dispersed
mineralisation” in which the
existence of ore-bodies of
economic importance to the co.
is considered “most unlikely.”
The low-grade ore located in
the Alligator River region
(Sleisbeck) earlier proved
insufficient to justify erection
of a treatment-plant, and open-
cut extraction of this ore is now
in progress, “for the present
time restricted to a 16-week
schedule,” with cartage to Rum
Jungle arranged. Earnings
from this source, however, will
be limited.
A reassessment of future
operations in the co.’s permit-
areas is therefore considered
necessary, and reports will be
obtained from three additional
consultants. If these reports
are unfavorable (and the board
appears to expect they will be),
the co. is faced with the pros-
pect of taking-up new prospect-
ing ventures or going into
liquidation.
Immediate sharemarket
reaction to the report was to
mark-down the co.’s f.-p. ss.
ords. from 3s. 3d. to 2s. sd.
Ravensthorpe Copper
'T'REA'i MENT of dump
material from the Elverd-
ton copper-mine (W.A.) has
proved less profitable than
anticipated, and contrib.-share-
holders in Ravensthorpe
Copper Mines, N.L., are being
asked for another shilling a
share—to make the 10s. shares
paid to 6s.
The £77,188 involved by the
call is needed to continue the
development of the old Elverd-
lon mine, and it is hoped that
by November substantial ton-
nages of underground ore will
be available, the mine reaching
full production during the first
quarter of 1958. An eventual
throughput of 10,000 tons per
four-weekly period is planned
—the treatment-piant went into
operation last April.
Arrangements were com-
pleted some months ago for
sale, at satisfactory prices, of
the first year’s production of
concentrates, but the depressed
copper-market makes the out-
look somewhat uncertain. The
board estimated last year that
profits could be won with
“copper not less than £3OO per
ton.” Spot prices on the Lon-
don market last week dropped
to £A3IO a ton, about £26
below the Australian price.
Adelaide Ship Construction
CIR THOMAS PLAYFORD,
S.A. Premier, announced
in March that a company to be
called Adelaide Ship Construc-
tion, Ltd., was being formed
to build tugs and small craft
at Port Adelaide.
The co. was registered in
July, and the parties interested
in the project are Seawork, Ltd.,
the principal U.K. licensees for
the hydroconic form of ship-
construction, and the Adelaide
Steamship Co., Ltd.
With the hydroconic form of
hull, bending and rolling of
steel plates is reduced. The
patentees claim greater effi-
ciency with this type of con-
struction than with conven-
tional hull-lines, particularly
with tugs. Simplified construc-
tion leads to a saving in labor
costs and time, and the new
co. is confident that this method
of building will result in more
economical production of
small craft in Australia.
S.A. Harbors Board officials
have in recent months closely
co-operated with technical
experts, and the new shipbuild-
ing yard will be established at
the Port Adelaide slipway-site
at Birkenhead. Developmental
work is now in progress, with
the object of making an early
start in construction of the first
tug.
It is felt there is a large
potential market in Australia
for tugs and small craft.
Already inquiries have been
received from likely clients.
Dominion Breweries, Ltd.
Shareholders in
Dominion Breweries, Ltd.
(Auckland), were pleased with
what they learned at the annual
meeting on July 26. The shares
sold later at £5 10s., the buyer
accepting a yield of only
£1 16s. 4d. per cent, from the
10 per cent, dividend.
The company has now
developed a new continuous-
fermentation brewing method,
complementary to its stabilised-
wort process, announced last
year. Full patent-rights cover-
ing all the main brewing
countries of the world have
been applied for.
Through a Canadian sub-
sidiary, Dominion Breweries
will draw a dollar income from
rights to its new processes in
the United States and Canada.
Rights for the Philippines,
Hong Kong, Spain and
Morocco have been sold to a
Manila brewery, and negotia-
tions are proceeding with
brewing interests elsewhere.
It has been made plain that
the sum of £74,982, shown in
the last balance-sheet as a
deposit with the company’s
Canadian bankers, does not
represent by any means the
whole of the consideration for
the Canadian and American
rights. Incidentally, no part
of this sum of £74,982 was
included as profit in the last
accounts.
The announcement at the
annual meeting that Dominion
Breweries will seek authority
to issue more capital was no
surprise.


AN INTEREST
RATE OF 4
is worth your
interest
GENERAL CREDITS ™
offers first mortgage debenture stock
LONG TERM
5-10 YEARS
4 Years ... 6J
3 Years... 6
2 Years ...
SHORT TERM
Per cent.
12 MONTHS
9 Months..4|
6 Months.. 4
3 Months.. 3|
Interest paid quarterly free of ex-
change. Cumulative stock carrying
6}% compounded on yearly rests with
currencies of 5 to 15 years. Prospectus
available all branches of The Commer-
cial Bank of Australia Limited.
Members of Stock Exchanges and
Offices of the company.
DIRECTORS :
Eric Hughes (Chairman), V. H.
Stanley-Low (Managing), J. F.
Hughes, J. M. Ford, F. G. Menzies,
C.8.E., H. F. Clarke.
Bankers for the issue: THE COM-
MERCIAL BANK OF AUST. LTD.
This is not a Prospectus and does not
constitute an invitation to subscribe
for the debenture stock mentioned
herein.
Underwriters:
J. B. WERE & SON
7295
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
T7INANCE MINISTER
Watts’s Budget, presented
on July 25, appeared to be
designed to win friends and
influence people at the coming
general election.
If he had been able to dis-
regard the election hurdle and
consider only the true economic
welfare of the country, Mr.
Watts would no doubt have
brought down a rather different
Budget. But maybe he regarded
the winning of the election as
the first essential —and maybe
he was right. A sound dis-
inflationary Budget which put
the Government out would only
lead to rampant inflation under
Labor.
25 p.c. Tax-rebate
The big popular feature of
the Budget is the lifting of the
rebate on personal income-tax
from 10 per cent., with a
maximum of £4O, to
25 per cent., with a
maximum of £75. It isn’t quite
as generous as it looks at first
glance, because it was only last
year that the rebate was reduced
from 20 p.c., with a maximum
of £75.
This major concession is
estimated to cost the Govern-
ment £5.9 million. Other minor
tax-exemptions and additional
social-security benefits and
pensions will cost another £2.8
million. The wisdom of putting
an extra £8.7 million of private
income into circulation in a
time of inflation can be ques-
tioned on economic, if not on
political, grounds.,
If the Government were
going to leave the taxpayer
more, and spend Jess itself, that
would be another —and most
remarkable —story.
But in fact it intends to spend
millions more than ever before.
The omission of any indication
that the Government realises the
need to check its own spend-
ing is probably the most un-
satisfactory feature of the
whole Budget.
But Record Revenue
Even after it has made its
gesture to the electors, the
Government will, it expects,
collect in tax from all sources
a record total of £260 million,
£7 million more than last year.
This amounts to £llB 9s. 9d.
a head, against £ll5 4s. lOd.
a head last year.
Consolidated Fund expendi-
ture is expected to rise by
another £6 million to £209
million, leaving an estimated
surplus of £600,000.
Paye Taxation
Paye taxation will start on
April 1 for individual tax-
payers, estates, trusts and
companies incorporated in
future, but not for existing
companies. All taxpayers under
Paye will be exempt from
income-tax and social-security
charge for the year to March
31, 1958. They will pay their
tax for the year to March 31,
1957, in February next, and in
April will start Paye for the
year to March 31, 1959.
Income-tax and social-security
charge will be calculated in
one amount. Not till he ceases
earning will the taxpayer or
his estate obtain the benefit of
the year’s remission.
Wage- and salary-earners
receiving less than £lO4O a year
(£2O a week) won’t in future
have to furnish returns of
income unless their assessable
investment income is more
than £l2 a year. (The first £l2
will be free of tax for every-
one.) These taxpayers will also
be exempt from social-security
charge on the first £2 a week of
their earnings.
This last discriminatory
handout is a most objectionable
feature of the Paye plan. It
would have been far better to
give a concession on the first
£2 of overtime or spare-time
earnings and thus encourage
people to help themselves, and
the country, in its labor
shortage.
The whole Paye scheme is
wide open to the objection that
it relieves the lazy, shiftless
and improvident of practically
all responsibility. Under a
system of painless taxation,
demands for State spending
will increase, and, if taxation
rises, there will be a tendency
for workers to look to em-
ployers to maintain take-home
pay.
Nothing for Industry
For business in general the
Budget contained nothing but
the promise of an “early and
comprehensive reassessment’’
of depreciation rates for taxa-
tion purposes.
Provided the “reassessment”
is realistic, however, it could,
as the president of Associated
Chambers of Commerce has
pointed out, be of more help
than tax-reduction in putting
business on a sounder footing
and promoting industrial effi-
ciency.
In recent months many com-
panies have drawn attention to
the inadequacy of depreciation
allowances, and a number of
them have made extra provision
out of tax-paid earnings.
Wilson’s (N.Z.) Portland
Cement, for instance, set
aside £60,000 over and above
ordinary and special depreci-
ation for last year. The
chairman pointed out that,
unless the proper amount of
depreciation was charged
against profits in each year,
neither the true cost nor the
true profit for the period was
ascertained.


The Han in
the Big Hat
By ERIC BEDFORD
The younger Randohh Bed-
ford known to Will Dyson.
THE man in the big hat
marched down George
Street, Sydney. He did
not walk, he marched ;
great barrel of a chest held
high, feet striking the street
with decision and purpose,
moustache as wings to a nose
which spoke of an eagle, and
eyes laughing, or of battle, as
thoughts took him.
Once more he had returned
to his beloved Australia. He
was the Chesterton of Aus-
tralia ; drinking, living, laugh-
ing, anecdoting, irrepressible
human-dynamo Randolph Bed-
ford.
That morning he had
stepped ashore from the ship
after another journey to
foreign parts. He was hurry-
ing, as he always did, to The
Bulletin office, where he
would use his stentorian voice
to call forth the journalists and
artists (who were gathered for
the most popular weekly ritual
of payment) to immediate
withdrawal to the caravanserai,
The Bulletin pub, The Star,
next-door.
“Welcome back, Randolph!
What’s it been this time? A
new company
on the Tiber
with the Pope
ydur chairman
of directors, or
a plan to bottle
moonbeams ?”
asked David
McKee Wright.
“I’ve formed
a Poets’ Union.
You’re chair-
man, David,
and I’m treasurer. We’ll corner
the market in good poetry,
which means you and I just
have to down pens, march to
the pub, and dispatch yards
of garlic-sausage and beer.
Come, David . . . There's Tom
McMahon! How are you,
Midas?”
“Fine, Randolph, fine! It’s
good to hear your dulcet tones
knocking the rafters about.”
“I’ll see Mr. Prior, and the
non - wassailers, when I’ve
shaken the London fog from
my feet in the pub. Come
along, David, we’ll commence
to spend the Poets’ Union fees
... Ah! Percy! Is Lionel in
town ? The Lindsays ought to
paint a huge canvas with real
Australian light to act as a
backdrop for the London
scene. It would cheer the Eng-
lish up no end, or no doubt
they would emigrate in
thousands to the land of sun-
light. Come, Percy, we’re about
to tread the sacred boards of
The Star.”
“Randolph, you’re like a
sunrise on the Hawkesbury
after a heavy night! ” said
Percy Lindsay, his mischievous
face dissolving into the familiar
warm grin.
“And where’s D’Artagnan,
our Lionel?”
“He’s away in Melbourne.”
“Away? I wrote to him I
was coming.”
“When?” •
“Weeks ago. The silver-
As David Low, later on, saw
him.
tongued Apollo should be
here! ”
“It’s well he isn’t. When you
two get together you're like a
couple of priests in conclave
on the sins of the poor.”
THE three men left The
Bulletin office, and went
next - door to The Star;
Randolph leading with David
McKee Wright, the white-
haired, gentle-voiced man who
would declaim louder as the
beer intake increased. Percy
Lindsay followed, throwing in
a verbal barb as they pro-
gressed up the narrow passage
to the back bar, sacrosanct to
the writers and artists, and the
enlightened wool- and
insurance-brokers who came to
listen and to laugh.
Within a few minutes the top
of the bar was a battlefield of
pickled-onions, garlic-sausage,
bread and cheese, and tankards
flowing with beer.
“Ah! Home LYe drinkers of
soda-pop and eaters of buns,
who fill yourselves with wind
and self-righteousness, pull
your long black hats over your
heads and shudder at the sight
of men who enjoy the
gastronomy of the tavern, and
not the gas of the bilious mind.
Heart up! He who never failed
never grew fiqh!”
“And what have you been
doing, Randolph?”
“I did call in on the Pope
at Rome.”
“No!”
“I did. And he laughed and
gave me half-an-hour. I got
enough out of him for two
columns, while half the ex-
kings of Europe and the
agents for crowned heads for
dispensations sat in anterooms
and chawed their nails. He’s a
fine Pope, and we laughed
together as I told him of Aus-
tralia, and he blessed all Aus-
tralians, even though I’m not a
Catholic, and he even blessed
you, Percy, so you see I’ve
been trying to do something for
your immortal soul.”
“And what else, Randolph?”
“I’ve been trying to form a
company for the largest cattle-
station in the, world in the
Northern Territory, but the
money-men, or the men who
get money, can only think of
a cattle-station like some farm
in Sussex. I told them the
Northern Territory was three
times the size of France, and
they looked at me with a
jaundiced, non-believer’s eye.
But to hell with the frost-
bitten English! Apart from
Maurice Hewlett and Ches-
terton their brains haven’t
enough adventure to take their
feet to a land of light and
freedom. They like the splay-
footed Cowards and Bernard
Shaws because they are
literally duck-footed. The
English laugh with great' diffi-
culty.”
‘‘Please, Randolph, the Eng-
lish have produced most that
is worth while in literature.”'
“Yes, David, but they’re all
dead. You Pig Islanders under-
stand them better than men
of a continent. The New Zea-
landers are more English than
the English, save that you’ve
had more beef and beer, and
your climate is a little better.”
“We’re larger than the
British Isles.”
“Oh, yes about three
perches. And if you don’t look
out we'll disband the Poets’
Union. What's the latest,
Percy?”
“Had a funny experience
with George Lambert. I was
trying to tell him something.
You know how difficult that is
when George is in his Across
the Black Soil Plains mood. I
tried to get a word in . . . he's
worse than you, Randolph . . .
but George kept on stroking his
beard and looking up at the
heavens . . . the pub - ceiling
. . . and gazing around him as
if he was on his own. I got
tired of it, and asked him:
‘Why are you so proud of
your beard, George?’ and,
before he could answer, I said:
'When it grows wild around
your . . . chest! ’ ”
“And what did Lambert do?”
“Held his superior air and
asked: ‘And you were saying?’
. . . I told him not to be such


a superior crab, and came
down here. I think George
won, though.”
A S the beer went around, the
top of the bar became a
battlefield upon which lay the
slain. Pig’s-trotter bones, cheese
rinds, garlic-sausage skins and
crusts were there as evidence
of the human locusts’ devasta-
tion.
The man in the big hat was
now the centre of a large group
as he anecdoted; talking in
broken accents of the Austrian
musician who bought a milch-
cow during the depression in
the ’nineties, or of happenings
on a dozen outback Australian
tracks, or of the night and its
stars. And long, shy Henry
Lawson came to lean on the
bar and drink beer, and wipe
the suds from his long
moustache, and sigh as a sick
man watching the healthy one
live every full-blooded moment
of his life.
There was Randolph Bed-
ford drawing life to him as
the sun draws the dazzling
colors of tropical day, and
Henry Lawson sinking further
and further into his Norse-
man’s isolation, as though the
last Viking’s ship has sailed
away, and he was upon a desert
island. Soon the beer would
warm him and when he had
the warmth his blood-line
could not give him he would
venture onwards to some other
caravanserai, to be lost in the
city.
Lawson the pessimist went
on alone, and Bedford the
optimist, as big and noisy and
fullblooded as his own land,
orated to the bar his belief in
Australia:
“What is the sum of all this
greatness, this lonely spacious-
ness? Its future is big, and in
such times events do not tarry
their full term in the womb.
For Australia the future is
about to be delivered, and no
child can be named until it is
born.
“Fools, mostly imported, tell
us we have no history because
we have no tradition tradi-
tion, the fact of the liar and
the holy writ of the charlatan!
Had we this thing called tradi-
tion we would be torn to pieces
as Europe is today. The oldest
country in the world, we are
the youngest. Fate does not
reserve such a jewel for nothing
greater than accident or caprice.
Fortune did not, without aim,
protect this land by four-
thousand leagues of sea, until
the older world could learn that
statecraft is as hollow a
mockery as priestcraft, and
that in good government there
is no mystery.”
WHEN a generation grows
up it looks back and says:
“Ah, the characters are not like
they were in the old days,”
forgetting that they have grown
away from life, and do not mix
with the characters of the new
generation.
Memory’s fields are greenest,
and its characters all larger than
life, and not dwarfed by their
failures in living. Luckily,
memories belonging to healthy
normal humans retain the
image of a maiden without
flaws and men who were all St.
Georges. Little things do not
persist as permanent images.
It is so that you remember
Randolph Bedford, brilliant,
vital, trying to cram two lives
into each day and two-thirds of
the night, and big and bustling
to get through what he believed
he should do before life’s blind
was drawn. Men who are
bursting with energy and
intelligence are usually much
more conscious of the blind-
ness of death than the weakly
who are somewhere on the way
to it and slide peacefully into
the chasm.
The Man in the Big Hat
attempted to thrust many lives
into his one. Journalist,
novelist, mining-engineer,
dramatist, explorer and
politician, he did all of them
well, and could have done any
one of them magnificently.
He wrote at white-heat, he
raced from one end of the
globe to the other shouting
“Australia!” at the top of his
great, bass voice. One month
he was finishing a novel, and
the next floating Mt. Isa Pty.,
Ltd., to help finance the great
silver-lead deposits, now Aus-
tralia’s most important and
growing mineral development.
He was Socialist in concept
and belief, and he used his vast
vocabulary of sonorous English
to give the Queensland Parlia-
ment, and all who were within
listening-range, many lessons in
oratory. Too quick of wit for
the orthodox politician, he
slayed them with his repartee
when anyone, stung by
Randolph’s forthright
Socialism, had the temerity to
interject.
THERE is a story of his
going up Bourke Street,
Melbourne, on the “dummy”
car of the cable-tram when he
was contesting the Bourke seat
for the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment in 1906.
To test out how he was pro-
gressing with the public at
large, he asked: “And how do
you think the election is
going?” .
“I don’t know, but there’s
one thing certain,” said the
elector sitting beside
Randolph ; “I’m certain I’m not
going to vote for that Socialist
Bedford.”
“Oh, you aren’t, eh?”
“No. Certainly not!”
“Then get off my bloody
tram,” said Randolph, helping
the elector on his way.
“I didn’t mind him objecting
to Bedford,” said Randolph
later, “but I could not sit there
and listen to him objecting to
my brand of politics. Anyway,
he had such a craven look
about him I think he must’ve
been imported.”
To') ANDOLPH’S politics were
of the two revolutions,
French and American. He
carried Carlyle wherever he
went, and he wrote a play on
Abe Lincoln which never hit
the boards. But his was a good,
healthy, rebel spirit, which was
Norman Lindsay's heartfelt comment on himself, brother Lionel
and A. G. Stephens dumbfounded by Randolph's eloquence—
which must have been torrential to have overwhelmed any
one of them.
assisted, if not activated, by the
deported wastrels from English
homes who were “sent out to
the colonies to make a man of
them.”
“Thank the Lord,” said
Randolph, “that when the
English dumped her forgers,
her poor poachers and her
petty thieves at Sydney Cove
she put in a great number of
English, Scotch and Irish
rebels. Rebels are the salt of
the earth. If a man will be
banished a country because he
will do well by it politically,
then he is a good man. The
Scotch and the Irish saved the
English from being found out,
anyway,” Randolph would
conclude, to put in the barb
against the inane English
Governors that Australia had
suffered for half of last century.
Of course Randolph was
English in extraction. His
father and mother were York-
shire people who came to Aus-
tralia well over a century ago.
“We must thank Lord Castle-
reagh for being such an oppres-
sive beast. He gave us the
Englishmen of the Reform
Association, and the Irishmen
and the Scotchmen who refused
to bend the knee to the
English - sponsored Irish
Lords! ”
He was not anti-English, but
so pro-Australian that all
things which might affect the
future of his beloved land—
imperialism, free-trade, inter-
national cartels, foreign wars,
foreign thinking were
bracketed as “anti-Australian”
in his thinking, and he roared
them down with a spirit which
made those against him in
thinking speak in whispers and
label his Socialism as Conn
munism, and his pro-rebel feel-
ings as pro-Irish, pro-Catholic,
and anything but pro-
Australian.
(Continued on page 49)


TURNCOAT
By "GOOSEWING"
Lieutenant sung
came aboard one tropical
afternoon in Sasebo just
before we sailed for
further west-coast patrol-duties.
For a South Korean he was
a tall man —tall for any Asiatic,
for that matter, but the little
signalman - cum - servant who
worried along behind him
averaged out the combination
by being very small.
“Yessss,” with a stiff little
bow of uncertain servitude,
“Wong here he spiks no Eng-
lish, only Korean, but I am
also interpreter too and
liaison also.”
Or so we understood the
sibilant sentence to mean.
Yes, please, he would like
to see captain. His rank?
Lieutenant first-grade in
Republic-of-Korea Navy. No,
he had not been in British
destroyer before. Yes, he
thought he was very thankful
to all peoples helping his so
small country. Yes, a wife.
A small beer only, yessss?
Thereafter he seemed to
become part of the ship;
seldom visible, seldom required,
and surprisingly difficult to find
when he was. The signalman
disappeared completely, but,
we were told, was always
“somewhere” on board. Any-
way, we were all too busy after
the first day to think about
them unless they were required
for interpreting or interroga-
tion, so they had the run of
the ship with no one to say
them nay.
Young Tanner, the navi-
gator, found time from his
busy duties to look after Sung,
and there appeared to spring
up between them some bond
of sympathy and understand-
ing. Pilot was always quiet
and reserved, and seemed to
take pleasure in being able to
put the Korean at his ease.
Sung was obviously very lost
on board —he had only two
years’ naval service behind
him, we learnt, and none of
that afloat —and with that and
his rather unreliable grasp of
our language, was often so
embarrassed by things that
even his emotionless face
showed it.
He welcomed Pilot’s few
kindnesses as a lost puppy
welcomes its finder, and was
often to be seen trotting along
in his wake just as the puppy
would. They were a queer
mixture. Sung, ramrod-backed,
proud-featured, grey-haired,
jungle-green clad, and Oriental
to the marrow ; Pilot, young,
cherub-faced, laughing, dressed
in white shorts and sandals,
and British as they come.
/'YUR patrol, a few days after
we reached the west coast,
took us close enough to the
mainland, dodging through
treacherous sandbanks and
past forbidding rocky islands.
Sung was full of useful
information, provided we could
find him and understand him.
Our chart became covered with
pencilled notes in Pilot’s hand-
writing: “Strong N.K. garrison
here,” “Batteries reported here
—75m.m.,” “Communist air-
field behind these hills,”
“Machine-gun placements on
cliffs,” and so on.
We added some of our own
too: “Possible submarine
depth-charged. here,” “Battery
of 4 guns, range 7 miles, on
headland,” “This island still
held by R.0.K.,” and so on.
On the Saturday afternoon
we were boarding and search-
ing a few junks. They had all
turned out to be friendly—
unhappy South Koreans with
their families and all their
worldly possessions heading
rather hopelessly south in
search of food and shelter.
After a quick search of their
evil-smelling holds we sent
them packing, with dire warn-
ings to keep going south or we
would sink them. We were
worried at that time that
the Communists might
commandeer all the junks for
trooping or mining, as indeed
they did do later with those
that remained.
“What of that headland,
Sung? Any guns there?”
asked the captain, indicating a
low promontory near which
an orange-sailed junk was drift-
ing quietly. “Safe for me to
close that junk?”
“I think yessss,” we were
told. “That place no good
for guns—only small engine-
guns perhaps.”
By which we inferred that
only machine-guns were likely.
It came, then, as rather a
shock to see the column of
water, yellow-tinged and drift-
ing, on our port quarter some
minutes later. A number of
the hands had never seen a
close shell-burst before, and
even those of us who had were
a little slow in realising what
it was, by which time only a
thin wisp of spray remained.
But plenty more came over
to revive our memories, and
after the first frantic minute of
getting our guns into action
with their raw crews, we found
ourselves settling down to quite
a duel. We had closed to
within a few thousand yards,
so the Old Man took us out
pretty smartly to a more
sensible range, from where we
proceeded methodically to
smother the headland with
H.E.
The Communist gunners
were doing well, though, and
their shells were falling all
round us. We were hit three
times —nasty hollow-sounding
smacks, followed in two cases
by a shuddering explosion
down inside us. The third hit
was right under the bridge.
A horrible moment of
suspense followed the clang as
the shell struck home, and the
moment stretched into seconds
before we realised there had
been no explosion. A full
minute passed before a rather
white-faced stoker-petty-officer
from the damage-control team
reported to the bridge that the
shell had failed to explode and
had just been thrown overside.
■yHE got clear not many
** minutes later, having
expended a considerable
amount of ammunition at the
battery, which had not fired
again after that last dud shell
hit us. Their sudden stop was
probably explained by the full
broadside we had dropped on
to them just after they fired ;
for- it touched-off their
ammunition-dump and lowered
the hill by a few feet. We lost
two good men, several
wounded ; and a storeroom, a
bathroom and a shaft-
compartment were partly
Sung was most apologetic
afterwards. Nobody seemed to
have seen him during the
action, but a few minutes after
we broke it off he was hissing
his regrets to the captain for
having misled him. Not that
anyone paid much attention to
him —we had other things to
do, and the incident was all in
the day's work.
WHEN mail came on board
for us, which, if we were
lucky, was once every week or
ten days, Sung used to be
included, too odd-looking
letters addressed in a spidery
hand, one or two for him every
time.
We asked him whether they
were from his wife, but he only
smiled politely and said his
family were “not known what
happened ; in Seoul perhaps.”
This intimation that he had
lost touch with his wife and
relatives when the Communists
overran his country was not
unexpected, I suppose, but we
felt embarrassed and apologetic
and left him alone to his letters
after murmuring our regrets.
The weeks sped past quickly
in the early days of the war.
We had a plentiful variety of
jobs, bombarding, blockading,
patrolling, with an occasional
single enemy aircraft, or at the
most two, that had to be
dissuaded from pressing an
attack home too closely. They
were not good pilots, though,
and we escaped anything worse
than a good drenching from
the nearest near-miss.
In those early, fluid times
much of the blockade-work
included the stopping and
interrogating of junks. We
would put ourselves alongside
them, grapple them close
aboard, and send our boarding
party swarming down into their
holds, looking like modern
pirates with their rather mixed
rigs and tommy-guns swinging
at their hips.
Clarkson, one of our
lieutenants and the proud
possessor of a massive red
beard, was boarding-officer,
and with him leading the way
the effect was complete. Sung
went, too, to interpret; and
that usually led to a lengthy
conversation with the junk
skipper, with much gesticulat-
ing, while Clarkson looked on
pretending to have control of
{Continued on page 56)


m
t§i&
A new plan for key men has
recently been introduced
by the A.M.P. Society
This plan has remarkable advantages in
helping you solve your INCOME TAX and
DEATH DUTY problems.
Contact your A.M.P. Representative, or
a telephone call to the nearest A.M.P.
office will bring you full information.
Ring: Sydney—Bos3o Melbourne—Mß 1781
Brisbane—FA 1981 Adelaide—LA 2372
Perth—BA 2001 Hobart—B 7621
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE! 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY • GENERAL MANAGER: M. C. BUTTFIELD


Strikes, Plain and Fancy
By J. B. BLAIR
EXCEPT for those whose own interests
are directly affected it is probably
true to say that the instinctive feeling of
most Australians towards men on strike is
sympathetic, or at any rate tolerant.
This stems, no doubt, from a natural
tendency to sympathise with the under-
dog, and it goes back a long way to the
days before industrial arbitration when
employers had an unrestricted right to
hire and fire and were at liberty to offer
what wages they pleased. In such circum-
stances the strikers were in most cases
very much the underdogs.
Moreover, in taking strike action they
faced very considerable risks. A strike
was not a thing to be lightly undertaken ;
it exposed the striker (and his family) to
certain privation ; to a very great risk of
losing his job for good; in many cases
it brought him face to face with starva-
tion. Very little of this applies to a strike
under present-day conditions, yet the
tradition of the underdog lingers on.
Virtually no strike today is a simple
matter of a dispute between employer and
employees; almost always it involves an
award of the Arbitration Court. Very
often the employer is a Government
department, run by a Labor Government
which the trade-union concerned has
helped to place in office. The changed
situation is best exemplified by recalling
the coal-strike of 1949, when Prime
Minister Chifley, a Labor man all his life
and himself a one-time striker, found
himself obliged to Freeze trade-union
funds, jail some union officials and even
put troops into the mines.
Left-wing Tactics
The Communist party, of course, has
exploited the strike-weapon for political
ends, using phony industrial issues as a
smokescreen to hide its real purpose. The
coalfields and the waterfront have been
the Reds’ chief interest, but through their
control of key unions they have also
been able to make plenty of trouble in
other industries—in the early post-war
years in the power-houses and gasworks ;
more recently in the metal trades, in
Government transport and in the build-
ing industry. Officials of unions not
under Red control have often allowed
themselves to be goaded into strike action
against their better judgment, rather than
be thought non-militant.
Traditionally the Labor party recog-
nises the right to strike (though not the
corresponding right to lock-out, nor the
right of an individual not to strike) and
the A.C.T.U., while often opposed at
heart to the use of direct action in a par-
ticular case, throws its weight behind the
striking union rather than risk losing its
support.
In recent years the tactics of Left-wing
trade-unions have been to organise small
sectional strikes rather than big ones.
Key men a r e withdrawn from one or
more workshops on some pretext or
other, with the object of bringing work
to a stimiVill without actually “pulling-
out” the whole work-force. If demands
so made are granted, the tactics are
repeated elsewhere in an attempt to make
the gains general throughout the industry.
These rolling-strikes, lightning-strikes or
whatever other name the fashion of the
moment gives them are designed to get the
benefits of direct action “on the cheap,”
while still retaining all the benefits and
protection of the arbitration system to
which the trade-unions give lip-service.
Bus Strike
Morally it is difficult to defend such
tactics. Arbitration is the accepted
policy of all political parties represented
in Australian Parliaments. Only the
Communists oppose it outwardly. The
wages of the majority of Australians are
determined by State and Federal Arbitra-
tion Courts on the basis of the capacity
of industry as a whole to pay them. Any
gains made outside the courts are made
at the expense of the rest of the com-
munity, which must, in the absence of any
increase in productivity, pay them in
terms of rising costs.
This is particularly unfair where the
tactics are applied to Government
utilities, as in the case of the 28
mechanics at Brookvale (Sydney) bus-
depot who went on strike in an attempt
(partly successful) to blackmail the N. S.
Wales Transport Department into grant-
ing a claim which had already been con-
sidered and rejected by the court. Their
action had its intended effect of bringing
bus-services in the Manly-Warringah
area to a standstill —that area having
been chosen by the union because buses
were the only form of public transport
available so that the maximum degree of
discomfort could be caused to the public
and consequently the maximum degrees
of pressure could be exerted on the
department. The ultimate gains were, of
course, shared by mechanics in all other
depots where action had been confined
to a “regulation” strike and financial
assistance to the strikers. In this type
of strike the strikers cannot be said to be
risking anything.
The real victims are the public
who pay in the first place by having
their transport system thrown into chaos ;
in the second place by having to pay for
alternative means of transport; in the
last place by having to pay (through
taxes to meet transport-deficits) for the
losses sustained by the service during the
strike and the higher wages eventually
conceded to the strikers and their
colleagues.
Building Hold-ups
Different tactics are being currently
used by the Building Workers’ Industrial
Union, whose spokesmen are very vocal
about the housing shortage and the need
for more schools and hospitals, yet who
indulge in all sorts of irritation tactics
which contribute to rising costs in the
building industry. Last week an organiser
of the union admitted in the N.S.W.
Industrial Court that hundreds of stop-
work-meetings had been held on building
jobs in recent weeks, some lasting as long
as an hour in working time. Asked
whether his union was indulging in direct
action, he said it pursued a policy of
improved wages and conditions “not
necessarily in opposition to the arbitra-
tion system.” To another question the
organiser replied, “On numerous
occasions direct action has been taken,
and I have no doubt it will be taken in
the future.”
The policy of the Building Workers’
(and of other Left-wing unions) is to get
as much by arbitration as possible, then
to squeeze some more out of the employer
by direct action. But in reality the “bit
extra” doesn’t come out of the employer’s
pocket at all. He passes it on, thus increas-
ing building-costs. As with the bus-
mechanics it is the public who pays for
the standover tactics.
Price of Eggs
Standover tactics of a different sort, but
every bit as irresponsible, are those of the
Transport Workers’ Union in relation to
Woolworths’ eggs. In this the union
attempted to dictate price-policy and buy-
ing-policy to the chain store. What’s
more, its action was endorsed by the
Sydney Trades and Labor Council. The
president of the N. S. Wales Industrial
Commission said of this:
I can’t see that the business of distributing
eggs and the policy of the Egg Board is the
business of the unions. Neither the Labor
Council nor the Transport Workers’ Union,
as powerful as they may be, are above the
law. .
The position is that many trade-union
leaders do in fact consider themselves
above the law and many Labor M.P.s,
even Labor Ministers, encourage them in
that belief by supporting them in their
illegal acts, or at least not opposing them.
No Government would for a moment
countenance the interference by one busi-
ness concern with the deliveries of
another. Yet the Transport Workers’
Union was able to declare a ban on
deliveries to Woolworths’ bulk-store and
enforce it by picket-lines, threats to
drivers and contractors and other illegal
means.
Among other industrial hold-ups,
plain and fancy, current or projected, are
the Bellbird stay-in strike and the sug-
gested Postal Workers’ strike —apparently
a repeat-performance of last year’s effort.
Crowning all is the bright suggestion that
the A.C.T.U. should agree to a levy on
every trade-unionist in Australia for the
purpose of building-up a massive strike-
fund.
Under modem conditions almost every
strike is a strike against the community,
and there are signs that the community
is beginning to realise that power-drunk
union-bosses have been misusing the
words “loyalty” and “solidarity” too long.
In most of the so-called struggles for the
rights of the underdog the real underdog
is the innocent bystander.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
T'v E S PIT E her imposing
record, many racegoers
doubted Peuro Pride’s
ability to win last Satur-
day’s Godfrey Watson
Steeple over two miles three
furlongs with the prodigious
weight of 12.9. Although she
started favorite, supporters of
tne big mare were able to
obtain liberal odds about her.
As it turned out, she had one
of the easiest races of her
career, and notched the fifth
success from her last six starts.
Although she covered the last
half-furlong of the race at half-
pace, on the line she had 20
lengths to spare from the
second horse, Providore. As she
drops 31b., to 12.6, for the
Australian Steeple, that race
seems to be at her mercy.
• •; •; •
The Australian Steeplechase, to be
decided at Caulfield next Saturday,
dates to 1882. Run over three-and-
half miles, it is Australia’s longest
race.
Prior to 1924, its companion
race, the Australian Hurdle, was
run over a similar distance. Up
to that year, three horses —Colonel
Shilinski, Les Pidington and Roisel
-—had completed the double ; no
mean feat to win two races over
a total of seven miles on succes-
sive Saturdays. Since the Hurdle
distance was reduced, Sir Alogy and
Mosstrooper have also won the
double.
Brian Smith, peer of present-day
cross-country hoops, has the best
riding record in the Australian
Steeple, with four wins. As he has
the mount on Pedro’s Pride next
Saturday, he is likely to add to
that score.
Weight-carrying record for the
race stands to the credit of the
mighty Redleap, who lumped 13.12
back in 1892.
• • • •
For the Australian Steeple:
Pedro’s Pride, 1 ; Akanriver, 2 ;
McKenna, 3.
• • • •
Only six horses contested last
Saturday’s Australian Hurdle —
the smallest field in the race for
13 years. On form and breed-
ing two starters, King Rheo
and McKenna, stood out from
the other runners. The pair out-
classed the opposition to stage
a thrilling finish —the verdict
to King Rheo by a short half-
head. At 10 to 9, the winner
was the shortest-priced favorite
to score in 50 years. It was his
third successive -win over
hurdles. He gets his jumping
ability from his sire, the David
horse David Kingsburgh. His
dam, Rheola, was by Give-
away from Gimcrack by
Manfred.
McKenna has been the
unlucky horse of this jumping
season. A mistake at the third-
last fence cost him this year’s
Grand National Hurdle, and,
by an unfortunate coincidence,
his rider lost his irons again
at the third-last jump in the
Australian Hurdle. Like King
Rheo, he is bred well enough
to win a Cup: he’s by Derby
wiener Precept (a son Of dual
Melbourne Cup winner Peter
Pan) from Miss Caress by dual
Sydney Cup winner Mosaic.
First horse to win a race in
Melbourne with the aid of
blinkers was the aged stayer
Te Totara, who scored in the
mile - and -a - half Balaclava
Stakes at Caulfield. Possibly
many more trainers will now
“I’m sure he Wants you to take it out, Reggie .”
seek permission to race their
charges in blinkers, as Te
Totara’s win was his first
placing in his last eight starts.
The Underwood gelding raced
very truly, and it is quite likely
that blinkers encourage a
horse to take an opening he
would otherwise shirk.
• • • •
With the start of the new
season, racegoers are alert for
any performance with a bear-
ing on prospects for the big
spring events. Most sig-
nificant win at Caulfield was
Better Boy’s success in the 10-
furlongs Gardenvale Handicap.
Carrying 8.6, the English-bred
horse scored comfortably.
Although the field he defeated
was not of much account,
Better Boy drops to 8.2 in the
Caulfield Cup, and as a
Hotham Handicap winner he
has the class to run well in
the Cup if he can hold his form
until October.
• • • •
Gippsland owner - trainer
H. O. Norton has done a
remarkable job to convert the
aged Empyrean gelding Sir
Pyrean from a crock to one of
Melbourne’s best sprinters.
Saturday’s win in the six-
furlong Moondah Plate was
Sir Pyrean’s third successive
victory. As a two-year-old, the
gelding was a very smart per-
former, but since then has
broken down several times. He
now appears to be quite sound,
and on Saturday defeated a
smart field in the good time of
I. 9/10.
♦ • • •
Garnet Bougoure, who had
his share of riding success on
Victorian tracks some years
ago, is back in Melbourne
after a long spell riding in
Singapore and Malaya. He
had several mounts at Caul-
field on Saturday without
having the luck to ride a
winner. At a time when Mel-
bourne racing is suffering from
a dearth of senior jockeys,
Bougoure’s experience and
skill will be in keen demand.
*1 •] •
A.J.C. handicapper Ken
Goodwin made it even racing
at the first Sydney fixture of
the new season: there were
five photo-finishes from the
seven Randwick events.
• • • ®
Earlier in the day Goodwin
caused a surprise in his assess-
ments for the Free Handicap (a
theoretical handicap arranged
by the Bloodhorse Breeders’
Association for three-year-olds
over a mile). He allotted both
Tulloch and Todman 9.5 at
the head of the list. They
were rated 81b. superior to
Prince Darius (8.11), with
Adelaide’s brilliant filly Cherete
on 8.8. Goodwin’s assess-
ments were the result of
collaborations with the other
principal handicappers.
• • • •
Tulloch easily defeated Tod-
man in the seven-furlongs
A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes.
Todman has yet to win beyond
six furlongs. Tulloch, who
also won the Sires’ Produce at
Flemington and Eagle Farm,
was best staying two-year-old
of the season. He is the over-
winter favorite for the A.J.C.
Derby and has 7.8 in the Mel-
bourne Cup against Todman's
7.6. Ace High—in the Free
Handicap on 8.7, and fifth on
the list —was rated best of the
Melbourne colts. Diamond
Vista comes in on 8.7; he
showed bursts of brilliance at
Sydney meetings in the season
just ended. The compilation
is interesting, and could prove
quite accurate: handicappers
know their way about.
•" • • •
The wearing of blinkers in
races didn’t get off to a very
fine start in Sydney. Two
Randwick runners —Sunus and
Arden —wore the headgear, but
neither got into the money nor
looked like doing so. While
Sunus wasn’t in the betting,
Arden was second-favorite for
his race; and where Sunus
apparently didn’t benefit from
the hood (he didn’t race as
straight as expected), Arden
took kindly to the gear but was
beaten before the serious part
of his race began. Blinkers
worn by horses on the various
Sydney tracks in the early-
morning gallops have in most
cases had the desired effect.
f. .9} L#J •
Randwick trainer Cec Ryan
races three-year-old filly Merry
Miranda and her four-year-
old brother Passbook —both
successful at the Randwick
meeting. It was a unique
double, as, in addition to being
brother and sister, the two
winners were both ridden by
G. Podmore, are raced and
trained by Ryan, and scored in
successive events. The main
difference was that Merry
Miranda started equal favorite
for her race (the three-year-
old Maiden for fillies), while
Passbook eased sharply in the
betting from 12’s to 20’s, for
the Novice Handicap ; a rally
brought him back to 16’s.
Merry Miranda cost Ryan
950gns. as a yearling and
Passbook 425gns. They are
by Persian Book (imp.) from


There’s
* / W////
tjlHb
P>
O A.
*-o
r©
>0 JO
’*<W.<*- :
a3/v\3W®
& SHi@
in
every
glass!
a glass
of Sheaf
puts new
life
into you!
STOUT
Divorce Notices
TO PATRICK JAMES RODREGIS for-
merly of Alice Springs, N,T. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife LAUREL MAR-
GARET RODREGIS has commenced pro-
ceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for Divorce
on (he ground of desertion by you for
a continuous period of three years or
more and she is seeking the exercise
of the Court's discretion pursuant to
Section 27 of the Matrimonial Causes
and Personal Status Code 1948 IF you
desire to defend such proceedings you
must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
.within FORTY clear days from the date
of this publication In default of your
so doing the cause may proceed and the
Court will pronounce judgment and
make orders against you in your
absence. DATED this 25th day of July,
1957.—-G- J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
FRED CURRAN & FERRIER, of
Forrest Place, Perth, Western Australia,
Solicitors for tlje Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. —In Divorce.
TO REGINALD RAYMOND BRIDGE
late of 10 Lion Street Crovdon. —TAKE
NOTICE that THELMA BRIDGE has
filed Petition for Divorce No. 4144 of
1956 on the ground of desertion for
three . years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may file an appearance hi the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 14th of October
1957 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from LESLIE BUNDLE
k H. M. TAUT?MAN, 66 King Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUCHAN, Registrar.
Passion Star by St. Andrew
from Passion by Sion from
Barmaid’s Blush by Magpie
(imp.).
• *1 • •
In the w.-f.-a. six-furlongs
Canterbury Stakes, to be run
on August 17, and the w.-f.-a.
seven-furlongs Warwick Stakes,
down for August 31, Sydney’s
best sprinters will be seen in
competition. The staging of
these races indicates the close-
ness of the spring round. The
first real clash of class three-
year-olds in their own age-
group will be in the £l5OO
Hobartville Stakes (seven
furlongs), at Warwick Farm
on August 24. Some of the
contestants may be sighted in
next Saturday’s Three-year-old
Handicap at Rosehill.
• • • •
Having his first start since
last January, when he was
competing in staying events up
to two milest, Cardigan, as
could only be expected, found
the six furlongs of the A.J.C.
Neutral Bay Handicap much
too short, and finished last;
he was never closer than
eighth in the field of 14.
Cardigan carries the Redcraze
colors, is a five-year-old gelding
by Ruthless (imp.), and is a
popular line for the more
important distance events later
in the year. He has 8.9 in the
A.J.C. Metropolitan, 8.11 in
the Caulfield Cup and 8.10 in
the Melbourne Cup. He won
over 12 furlongs at Canterbury
(N.Z.) in November, and later
finished second, beaten half-a-
head, in the two miles Welling-
ton Cup, with N. Setlwood
on top. The winner of that
race, Sombrero, ran the
distance in 3.21, a race-record.
Cardigan carried 8.1.
An interesting runner in the
second division of the Rand-
wick Maiden Three-year-old
was the costly Cscsar, a 4000gns.
yearling at the Randwick
April sales last year. Caesar —
-there was a former smart
sprinter of that name —is a
gelded son of Delville Wood
(imp.) and Eternal City
(imp.), raced by W. J.
Buchanan and trained by
T. J. Smith. He is a full
brother to Prince Delville,
Roman Holiday, Fort William
and Redeswood all Rand-
wick winners. In his first race-
start he caused no furore, but
made up a little ground in
the straight ; he is certain to
benefit from the experience.
N.Z.-bred By Far stood up
to a strenuous two-year-old
season, during which he filled
a number of minor places. He
began the three-year-oid term
successfully, winning on the
first day of the 1957-58 season
in Maiden three-year-old com-
pany at Randwick, carrying
topweight, 8.7. J. Thompson’s
clever horsemanship was a
factor in the gelding’s success:
“The Professor” waited for a
rails opening that came just
when he wanted it—at the top
of the straight. The hooded
Sun us veered slightly off course
and Thompson filled the gap.
By Far is a gelded son of Gold
Nib (imp.) and Fame, an
imported . mare by Gains-
borough from Tilly by Charles
O’Malley. He is related to
Welloch, a winner of the 15-
furlongs Port Adelaide Cup,
and has the makings of a
stayer.
4-
And Sundry Sports
A T Sydney Sportsground on
** Saturday G.P.S. beat
C.H.S. 22-6 (five tries to
one), after leading 11-0
at half-time. This was only
the second time the annual
game between the two sets
of schools had ranked as
the major schoolboy fixture ;
earlier G.P.S. I used to play
Duntroon, while C.H.S. met
G.P.S. HI. Last year G.P.S.
won 17-0; this year it was
again the stronger side, though
High Schools kept trying and
had even held its own for the
first 20min. (it might
have scored the first try if the
final pass to winger Patterson
in a good movement hadn’t
been thrown to him a fraction
too soon). G.P.S. included
seven players from St. Joseph’s,
the G.P.S. premiers—justifiably
so, too, on their form. Singling
out for mention only one or
two backs, winger McCann,
who in the seven G.P.S. games
this year scored 21 tries for
Joey’s, was very fast, ffiough,
on the whole, held by Patter-
son ; Joey’s fullback Ryan has
a most powerful punt and
played very well in attack and
defence ; while the best back on
the field was probably centre
Blomfield, of King’s, who
scored a try and “made” a
couple of others.
With two rounds to go,
Sydney Rugby Union’s first
four are Gordon, St. George,
Randwick and East; the first
two must make the finals, and
the second two should be able
to hold on. On Saturday
Gordon beat St. George 17-11
in an even, hard-fought, mainly
forward struggle; Gordon’s
last three points came from a
penalty by fullback Graham


IE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BAR RE RE
No Pads—
No Springs
The NEO - BAR-
BER® acts like
a hand when
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for Free Literature
Barrere Distribution Company
Dept. 3s, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
The KEROSiNE
used by the
ANTARCTIC EXPEDITE
m
* KCKGSrI
/A
)
c
COR
CORAUTE
ROSINE
burns WARMER,
CLEANER, BETTER
KM*
* It's easier—and there's
a saving if you bring your
own container.
You can buy* Coralite
Kerosine by the tin where
you see these pumps . • .
Sr
BUPIR
ALSO OBTAINABLE AT SELECTED STORES,
C.O.R AGENTS AND DEPOTS
Marketed by THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD, an associate of
The British Petroleum Company Ltd CSISW
as the bell sounded. Randwick
beat Drummoyne 16-8, Uni-
versity got the cane out on
Manly, 30-14, East and North
met, and East is still East, after
tearing North in twain, 22-8,
and Eastwood —not that its
win was of any great matter-
beat Parramatta 11-6.
* * #
Saturday’s V.F.L. round pro-
duced some interesting results,
one or two of them “topsy-
turvy,” and a fair bit of the
rough-and-tough stuif. “The four”
is unchanged (Melbourne, Carlton,
Essendon and Hawthorn), but Mel-
bourne and Carlton were both
bowled over. Four “away” teams
won. On the wide M.C.G., which
proverbially gives the Demons at
least a two-goal start in any game,
Hawthorn overcame that handicap
to win, 10.13-8.18. The Hawks'
strong defence, particularly inter-
state back-pocket Hughes, had the
Melbourne forwards floundering.
Melbourne’s defeat proves how
lucky the Demons really were to
get away with their draw at
Collingwood and their one-point
win against Essendon. Coiiing-
wood, now the team nearest the
four, won down at South in a
brawl, 12.19-9.13. Essendon sur-
mounted the hurdle of Footscray at
’Scray, 12.11-7.8, while St. Kilda,
also far from home but certainly
not too fagged-out, had a four-
point win over North 14.9-13.11
after putting on seven goals in the
last quarter. North for a while
was a final-four contender, but has
now done its dash. TThe two main
topsy-turvy results came from
Geelong and Fitzroy, both of which
were roundly and ignominiously
thrashed the week before. The
Cats badly scratched and clawed
Carlton, 11.19-6.7. When the seem-
ingly more man-eating Richmond
Tigers went after the apparently
woebegone Fitzroy Lions, it was
the Lions who, in a tooth-and-nail
contest, did most of the eating,
13.13-13.13.
* * *
Sydney’s weekend round of
Rugby League provided all
thosp Brands of football to be
expected in a competition so
cuaciy i ought rougn, tough,
grim, fierce, fast, spectacular ; and,
into the bargain, a nice old turn-
up in the S.C.G. match-of-the-day.
Perhaps it was no great surprise,
though, that Easts should score 23
points to 13 by comp.-leaders St.
George. The Tricolors got dowm
to business early, stuck to their
guns when the Saints made their
lally, and, inspired by the vigor and
initiative of their leader, fullback
Paskins, ran out well-deserved
winners. At Redfern Oval the
South Sydney Rabbit-ohs and their
Seagull (Manly) opponents played
football that made their respective
industrial and seaside barrackers
delirious. Souths, taking the breaks
that came their way, got the verdict
19-10. In other matches, Wests,
with forwards O’Shea and Patch
terrifying, tossed Balmain 17-4;
Newtown, with capiain Poole a
driving force, managed North
Sydney 17-11; and Canterbury, in
a match that virtually decided the
“wooden-spooners,” beat Parra-
matta 18-11. St. George still heads
*he ladder with 24 points up, Manly
remains second on 19, Souths have
elbowed to third on 18 (ready for a
last sprint?) and Wests, with 17,
bring up the four. Newtown, Easts
and Balmain—all on 16 —have a
chance if they make all the right
moves. Norths, on 13, have the
job ahead of them.
* * *
Dragnet: In two Soccer
Tests ptayed in Sydney over the
past week Perencvaros
(Hungary) twice walked over
Australia, 6-1 and 9-2—the
Hungarians would have won in
any case, but it did help them
somewhat by stacking-up new, fresh
players in the ,second halves. On
Sunday, at Wallsend (N.S.W.),
Hungary finished its Australian tour
by drawing with Hong Kong 2-all
....The Australian 125-miies pro-
fessional road-cycling race, over the
Olympic • course at Broadmeadows
(Vic.), was won by titleholder
Russell Mockridge, of Victoria,
who “burned oil” most of the
field, in 6brs. 24min. 35sec In
Perth S.A. won this year’s Claxton
Shield, with W.A. runner-up. It
was S.A.’s first win of the Shield
since 1936. This year's series were
noteworthy for the heavy defeats
suffered by N.S.W In Moscow,
at the Russian Festival Games on
July 30, Australia’s Alan Lawrence
came a very creditable and very close
second behind Russian Olympic
runner Bolotnikov in the 10,000-
metres race.
* * *
Carrying out operation in
the New York Polo Grounds,
Floyd Patterson —22-year-old
world heavyweight-champ., in
his first defence of the title —
performed a mild cyclone on
Tommy (Hurricane) Jackson,
and kept the crown. The pair
had previously traded blows in
June last year,, when Floyd,
working for the most part with
a broken bone in his right, got
a 12-round affair on points.
Their latest get - together
resulted in a more lop-sided
tangle ; the Hurricane couldn’t
get off the receiving end. On
the canvas in the first, second
and ninth, Jackson arose, put
down his head, bored in for
more —and got it. In the tenth,
by that time carrying labels
from every punch in the com-
prehensive Patterson reper-
toire, the Hurricane, almost
blown right out, earned the
ref.’s sympathy; that gent,
stopped the slaughter amidst
the traditional cries of “We
wuz robbed.”


Missing Friend
PURSUANT to an order of the Supreme
Court of Victoria made in the Action
1950 No. 56 The Public Trustee Plaintiff
and Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
Defendant the persons claiming to be
entitled as Uncles or Aunts or first
cousins of MARY ALICE CUBLEY late
of Mont Park in the State of Victoria
(who died between the 28 th December
1913 and the 3rd January 1944) who
was the daughter of WILLIAM HENRY
CUBLEY (born 1826 Bow Middlesex
England) and his wife DELIA formerly
YIENDE (born Winc-hcombe England
about 1836 the child of EDWIN
YIENDE and MARY ANNE YIENDE)
by their marriage in Victoria in 1861
or the legal personal representatives of
any such next-of-kin who have died
since the 28th December 1943 are by
their Solicitor on or before the 25th day
of November 1957 to come in and prove
their claims at the offide of the Master
Law Courts William Street Melbourne
or in default thereof they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit
of the said order.
The Second day of December 1957 at
Eleven o’clock in the forenoon at the
said office is appointed for hearing and
adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated this 23rd day of July, 1957. —
MASTER.
HOAD & BONELLA, 101 Queen
Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGUEY, Chairman ; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred 8. White; A. G. Parker.
fl. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8301. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States. 1 •
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF MEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NORMAN ALFRED GEORGE
CRAIG laic of Byrock.-—TAKE NOTICE
that YVONNE ESME CLARE CRAIG
has filed a Petition lor Divorce No.
1623 of 1957 on the grounds of deser-
tion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Sth day of
October 1957 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO MARIE JOAN HUGHES late of
Muswellbrook.—TAKE NOTICE that
EDWARD DESMOND HUGHES has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 651
of 1957 on ilie grounds of your adultery
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the Sth day of October 1957. and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor,
107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.- —J. DOUG HAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THELMA JOAN PEARSON late of
15 Ferndale Street Normanhurst.—
TAKE NOTICE that EDWIN MALCOLM
BRYDEN PEARSON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2119 of \9t>7 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
11th October 1957 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from S. J.
BULL, SON & SCHMIDT, Solicitors,
of 34 Martin Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUGUAN, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy three copies of Golf Sho'ts,
by Jim Terrier. —6563.
To buy copy of Land Utilisation
in Australia, by Wadham and
Ward. —6564.
To contact anyone knowing the
v/hereabouts of William Noble, late
of Bishop Auckland, Durham,
England. Reply direct to Miss
E. M. Robinson, High Fell House,
Selkirk Crescent, Durham, England.
Information Sought
(1) Aboriginal words for a group
oi people gathered together ? (2)
Suitable aboriginal name for a farm ?
(1) Kanyanya, Milpera, a gather-
ing of people. Canberra and
Gumbooya (or Gumb'uya) mean
meeting-place. (2) Many aboriginal
words would provide a suitable
name. For a really good choice,
physical features of the farm or of
the district would need to be
known. Your selection could, of
course, also depend on your per-
sonal liking for a word, even if it
is in no way appropriate. How-
ever, here are a few words and their
meanings—Abminga, snake-track;
Acbilpa, wild cat; Akeringa, on
ihe plains; Alawoona, place-of hot
winds; Algona, mountain; Apa-
murra, fresh water; Arilaringa, man
belonging to sandy country; Bam-
bara, forest country; Barregowa,
middle of a hill; Belubula, stony
creek ; Booborowie, spring of water ;
Callemondah, plenty of hills;
Coomurra, wax of native bees;
Coora, bluegum-lree; Elouera,
pleasant place; Eramalgo, honey-
comb ; Illabunda, place of swallows;
Kalawar, flat country; Kallara, tea-
tiee; Karingat, happy camp;
Mootwingee, grass; Mutooroo,
grass-snake or food place;
Nentoura, secluded ; Tatiara, beauti-
ful country; Unkulara, valley;
Any statistics that reveal whether males or females hold the greater
percentage of capital in the CJ.S.A. ?
(The following ligures were supplied by the U.S. Information Service.
They are taken from a publication entitled “Share Ownership in the
United States,” by Lewis H. Kimmel, which was picpared at the request of
the New York Slock Exchange and published by the Brookings Institution,
Washington, in 1952.)
Common stocks: estimated shareholdings in all publicly-owned issues
classified by type of holder.
Shareholdings Shaves Average no.
Type of Number (in P.c. of Number (in P.c. of of shares
Holder thousands) total thousands) total per holding
Men .. .. 10,163 37.0 1,696,794 36.7 167
Women .. 10,302 37.5 1,248,528 27.0 121
Joint accounts 3,269 11.9 350,445 7.6 107
Fiduciaries .. 2,985 10.9 516,134 11.1 173
Institutions and
foundations 307 .8 110,876 2.4 535
Brokers and
dealers .. 47 .2 29,710 .6 631
Others .. .. 453 1.7 676,816 14.6 1,495
Total .. 27,426 100.0 4,629,303 100.0 169
Preferred stocks: Estimated shareholdings in all publicly-owned issues
classified by type of holder
Men .. .. 11,016 36.4 1,762,985 36.3 160
Women .. 1,103 39.0 59,720 26.4 54
Joint accounts 268 9.5 13,692 6.1 51
Fiduciaries .. 465 16.4 31,178 13.8 67
Institutions and , „
foundations 46 1.6 8,777 3.9 189
Brokers and ,
dealers .. 5 .2 1,153 .5 ~
Others .. .. 87 3.1 45,544 20.1 5-6
Total .. 2,826 100.0 226,254 100.0 80
Common and preferred slocks combined: Estimated shareholdings in all
publicly-owned issues classified by type of holder
Men . .. 11,016 36.4 1,762,985 36.3 160
Women .. 11,404 37.7 1,308,248 26.9 115
Joint accounts 3,537 11.7 364,136 7.5 103
Fiduciaries .. 3,450 11.4 547,312 11.3 159
Institutions and
foundations 254 .8 119,653 ■‘-•5 471
Brokers and _ .
dealers .. 52 .2 30,863 .6 590
Others .... 539 1.8 722,360 14.9 1,339
Total .. 30,252 100.0 4,855,557 100.0 161
Wiribanta, to milk; Yerta, earth or
ground; Yurlondi, spring up, come
forth.
* * * *
What is the name of the wildflower
which / have seen growing in the
Blue Mountains (N-S.W .) with long
red pendulous flowers ?
This would be the native fuchsia
or fuchsia heath (Epacris longiflora ),
of which Thistle Y. Harris’s Wild
blowers of Australia says: “Native
fuchsia varies in habit from a
straggling shrub to a tall, erect plant,
up to sft. In the axils of the
rigid, heart-shaped, sessile leaves are
the long tubular flowers, red, tipped
with white. It is a very beautiful
shrub of the sandstone ledges of
the coast and Dividing Range of
hi.S.W. It flowers in winter and
early, spring.”
$ * *
By popular demand, a few previous
“Service Page’’ answers —(1) tanning
skins by the sulphuric-acid-and-bran
piocess (last printed on Apr. 25,
1956) and (2) a hop-beer recipe
(July 25, 1956).
(1) Pour five quarts boiling water
over two quarts bran, let stand a
quarter-hour, then strain. Make
about an equal quantity of sait-
water by putting into blood-warm
water about as much salt as will
dissolve in it. Mix the bran-water
with the salt-water, and when the
mixture is lukewarm, but not
warmer, add to every gallon
loz of sulphuric-acid. Immerse
the skins, stirring them about
occasionally until tanned (about
20min.). Rinse in clean water; hang
in a shady place to dry. If, before
tunning, the skins are very dry, soak
them until soft.
(2) Assemble 4oz. hops, 71b.
treacle, loz. whole ginger, s|gals.
water, 1 cup brewers’-yeast. Mix
all but the yeast, and bring to the
boil; keep boiling gently for two
hours. Transfer to a non-metal tub,
and let cool. Add the yeast and
stii well; let stand for 16 hours.
Then put in a barrel slightly
canted; bung lightly, hit to use in
a week.
Brief Answers
Scribe: Write Press Feature
Service, 149 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney; and get hold ol a Writers
and Artists 1 ear Book, 1957 (.cost,
15s. 9d.).. K.J.E.: Your friend
can sue the motor-cyclist who struck
Inm. Whether or not the police-
charge succeeded is of no con-
sequence at all VJ.: (1) and
(?) Write Royal Australian Historical
Society, 8 Young Street, Sydney.
t 2) lhere are probably several
claimants for both “firsts.” Doubt
whether any accurate nuormation
could be found P.P.: Write
Commonwealth Public Service
board, 119 Phillip Street, Sydney....
Shellback: Double-spacing is always
preferable in MSS. Suggest you
buy a Writers arid Artists' > ear
Book, 1957, and swot-up on the
subject... .Subscriber: Suggest that
you look for a solution in the
“Plain English” article of that issue
entitled “Australia’s Opportunity."
H.M.: (1) Write the Editor,
“Hobbies Weekly,” Dereham, Nor-
folk, England. (2) Write the Editor,
” Jhe Humanist” (this was “Literary
Guide”), 40 Drury Lane, London,
W.C.2.... W.H.C.: The N.R.M.A.
advises that efficient filters are avail-
able for the treatment of larger
quantities, but for two gallons the
lelt-pieces method (as in sketch for-
warded) is reliable. Three or four
pieces of -}m. felt are placed on
wire-mesh about a loot from the


This is
the Suit for ME
That’s what any boy will say when he’s wearing a
Stamina Double Breasted Suit because Stamina
boys’ suits are designed, cut, made and finished by
master-craftsmen. That means the Stamina suit you
buy for your boy will fit him perfectly, fit him comfort-
ably, and keep on fitting him for years ... for every
Stamina garment has a generously wide “Grow-tuck”
hem which can be let down as he grows.
So ... if you want the best for your boy
the neatest, smartest Double Breasted Suit
obtainable, ask for Stamina.
ClOTMt*
ASK FOR
Stamina.
suns 2’Q SAGS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
m Q\A/A 441
top of a kerosene-tin or oil-drum;
the contaminated oil is allowed to
filter slowly through to the bottom
of the drum, Which contains a 2in.
depth sludge-trap and a draw-off
tap.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contribution . voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stumps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
J.W.: We’ll have a piece of your
. ...D.H.: Might make a pop.-song.
....K.L.: Rough... .A.R.: Nearly
made it.,..P.K.: “The Wave”
crashed... .0.R.: If writing is
your hobby it’s a very knobby
hobby A.R.8.: The best thing
you can do with “The Mouse” is
give it to the cat....N.5.: “Winter
Drought” came close... .J.H.
(Vic.): “Waiting” the nearest....
N.S.: Just a slice of “Chicken”:
An eighty-mile-per-hour kid
Fnnu petrol-engines drawing power
As a girl her glamor from a stolen
flower
In a screeching rubber-scorching skid
Round corners does announce he’s here:
Hero of the macadam, cigaretteer,
Hot-rod mogul to a chariot hoard
Of widgies a-worshipping the bantam
lord.
R.G.: “The Ballad of the
Football Widow” disappeared in the
scrum.... M.B. (Buenos Aires):
They both have a certain bounce.
JACKEKOO
Could never tell the time of day,
Nor a wether from a ewe,
Would never listen or obey,
That was the jaekeroo.
Couldn’t drive a tractor,
Couldn’t cook a stew,
Wasn’t one good factor
Concerning the jaekeroo.
Mustered all the cattle into the water-
hole,
Raced old Mollv miles just before she
had her foal.
Nearly killed a stationhand around at
the eastern mill,
Then he had the nerve to say he was
indispensable.
Burnt the stable down while lookin’
for a bridle.
Killed me prize Merino; I never knew
him idle.
Tried his hand at shearin’, nearly cut
the sheep in two, <
Fused the lighting system, did the
jaekeroo.
I found the taps all runnin’ in the
middle of a drought.
He left the stock-gate open so the sheep
could all get out,
Shot old Spot, me sheepdog, while out
shootin’ rabbits ;
I had to put me foot down about his
shootin’ habits.
He did the books awhile till I wondered
what was doin’
Accordin’ to his figures in three months
I'd he ruined.
He looked the fuel-drums over with a
naked flame,
Took the pump to pieces, it’s never
been the same.
Loved to go out fishin’, sank me rowin’
boat,
When he bust the press I nearly cut
his throat.
It’s not that I disliked him or ignored
his good intent,
But ruinin’ me station, that I did
resent.-


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony ot Bony Kony.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £19,800,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 81 3 1 (4 lines)
W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FULL EMPLOYMENT AND INFLATION
“HTHE writing on the bank-
rupt’s wall—a neat, pre-
cise little summary of what in-
flation means,” is how London
“News Chronicle,” commenting
on fresh threats of inflation in
Britain, describes the warning
contained in the U.K.’s
“Economic Survey” published
in April.
The survey, the paper adds,
showed that last year’s wages
had risen by 8 per cent., prices
by 5 per cent., company profits
by 4 per cent., and total pro-
duction by 1 per cent., and in-
dustrial production not at all.”
Meanwhile, “blueprints appear
for vast schemes of capital-
expenditure. The consumer
buys more and more with each
rise in wages. The Government
takes more and more to catch-
up with its current expenditure.
It is a rat-race to disaster.”
In the “News Chronicle”
view, “the simple answer, how-
ever harsh the implications, is
to restrict the amount of
money in the country and to
limit the demand, including that
of capital”:
“If a nation lacks the
resources to build power-
stations, schools, hospitals and
roads as well as help for
example—lndia and Ghana,
then some of its plans must be
scrapped. On the wages front
-—once the principle of full
employment has been accepted
•—nothing less than a circus feat
is needed. Those mettlesome
horses, wage-restraint and in-
creased production, must some-
how be harnessed and ridden
together.”
On the same subject, London
“Daily Mail” comments that
“A mild degree of steady in-
flation need not be harmful.
Indeed, it seems to be the pre-
requisite of- full employment.
Better to have inflation and
everyone at work than defla-
tion and 3,000,000 unemployed.
“Provided you can control
it. That is the question of the
hour. Can inflation be kept
in hand? Once it begins to
gallop, the bottom drops out
of everything. Remember
Germany, 1922.”
America, too, is by no
means free of the same
economic complaint and, in the
course of a thoughtful com-
ment in New York “Herald
Tribune,” Walter Lippmann
notes “a non-violent but never-
theless revolutionary change in
the inner principle of our own
[America’s] social economy” :
“This is the new principle
which goes by the prosaic name
of ‘full employment’ the
imperative that the Govern-
ment must use the fiscal and
other powers of the State to
keep the demand for labor at
least equal to the supply.”
Government acceptance of
this principle, Lippmann
adds, “has brought about
a revolution in the West
which has made the
Communist revolutionary pro-
paganda irrelevant and anti-
quated.” The Government, in
effect, has underwritten the
bargaining-power of Labor,
thus causing “a decisive change
in the balance of forces within
our society.”
After noting that voters who
have learnt that unemployment
can be prevented will not
tolerate any Government
which does not prevent it, Lipp-
man'n concludes that “we have
not begun to see the full con-
sequences of the new prin-
ciple. But, in all probability,
it is the real reason why it
appears that the inflation in
which we find ourselves cannot
be stopped by the orthodox
devices of tight money and a
balanced budget.
“It may well be that a
gradual inflation is the in-
separable accompaniment of the
policy of full employment, and
that the two together will
gradually but inexorably work
a great transformation in the
American way of life.”
Making the most
of small talk
Most of us talk a lot. But put
us with strangers at parties or
business gatherings and we
have to struggle to find some-
thing to say.
Vance Packard, in August
Reader’s Digest, shows how
you can make these affairs
more rewarding by using
“small talk” to bring out the
best in people.
Other absorbing features in
this month’s Reader’s Digest
include Poland’s quiet revolu-
tion, The perils of promiscuity
and The mystery of Amelia
Earhart’s last flight. All are
condensed from leading cur-
rent magazines and books to
save you time. Enjoy August
Reader’s Digest today. On
sale at all newsagents and
bookstalls only 2/-.
Britain in the Middle
East
Further to John Connell’s
lament for Britain’s Middle
N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
THE NEW PATIENT
East policy (quoted here
B. 17/7/’57), Lieutenant-
General H. G. Martin com-
ments in a letter to London
“Daily Telegraph” that “in
contrast to the Russians and
Americans, we [Britain] have
never had a policy in the
Middle East”:
“It follows that we have
never held the initiative. Always
we have been pushed around,
steadily losing ground.
“Before World War I the
Turkish Governor of Palestine
ran his province comfortably
with two reserve battalions and
1000 gendarmes. By 1946 we
were making heavy weather of
it with nearly three divisions
and 18,000 police.
“In 1946, too, we were still
planning to keep our Middle
East reserve in the Negeb. This
reserve was to have been the
6th Armored Division, which
was to have come from Italy.
So we had prepared three
brigade camps for it —at Nuser-
rat, el Bureign and Mughasi, in
what is now the Gaza Strip.
The bedouin who looted these
camps were to be the sole bene-
ficiaries.
“At the same time we were
planning to organise the whole
depth of Africa in readiness for
another war. Already there
was talk of a main base in
Kenya, whence reinforcements
could be flown into an
advanced base in Egypt. How
familiar all that sounds! And


Faith in the
Future
So many aspects of Australia’s expansion are
engaging attention now that it seems we are
obscuring our own sight to one of the most pressing
needs of the future.
I refer to the wider training of men and women
in science and technology. It has been mentioned
before. It is a problem that confronts Britain, the
United States and other countries.
But do we realise how vital it is that Australia
should try to channel more of its student strength
into the study of science, engineering, agriculture
and veterinary work?
Let us take a practical example. On official
reckoning Australia’s mineral resources in a few
years could be earning us as much as wool. That
is a stimulating thought. It shows a trend to
diversification —to the spreading of our reliance on
more than one great industry to sustain the
national economy.
But how can the minerals be fully won to
wealth without the geologists, mining engineers and
other highly trained workers? For that matter,
how can the wool industry itself keep up its
standards without reinforcements for the research
workers who have done so much for its
advancement until now?
We could go through all our industries —large
and small, rural and manufacturing—and the same
truth would apply:
To maintain our standards, increase production,
reduce costs, promote trade in an ever more
competitive world we must keep abreast of
scientific and technical progress.
So it can be said again, and with emphasis.
Many more students will have to be encouraged,
by suitable recognition and reward, to the learned
side of our vital industries; and no less importantly,
more graduates will have to be encouraged to
their teaching.
It is the responsibility of commerce and
industry, no less than of Governments and
the Universities.
For. look proudly and expectantly as we may
upon our natural resources, these will avail us only
so long as we have the trained minds and the
skilled hands to work them.
7
the British and Egyptian
Armies were to be standardised.
“By 1947 our troops were
moving out of the Delta into
the super-Butlin camp that
had been rushed up in the
Canal Zone. At the same time
the base in Kenya [Mackinnon
Road] was actually launched.
That, too, was a rush job ;
for now we were busy also
getting out of Palestine.
“According to schedule,
Mackinnon Road had to be
ready not only to receive from
the Middle East by September
1, 1949, 182,000 tons of
engineer stores —the priceless
output of three years of war
—but also itself to function
as a base within four months of
the outbreak af another war.
At the outset, however, there
were no maps, no housing for
troops or labor, no water.
“Road and railway facilities,
too, were hopelessly inadequate.
And as the post-war army
contracted, the lack of skilled
labor grewso 500 skilled
Italian workmen had to be
flown in from Rome. Costs
rose astronomically. Then,
when all was nearing comple-
tion, the Kenya base was
abandoned and the jungle
swallowed Mackinnon Road
once more.
“So we come to the long
tussle with Egypt over the
Canal Zone which ended with
the Anglo-Egyptian Agreement
of October, 1954. The new
plan was to base Middle East
Land and Air Forces on Cyprus
and Libya ; so the War Office
and Air Ministry launched
large building programmes in
Cyprus. Cyprus, we used to
be told then, was ideally placed
both to protect our oil interests
in the Middle East and as an
air- and guided-missile base.
“Early last year our troops
evacuated the Canal Zone as
agreed, leaving behind them
the contractors’ organisation
and stores worth none knows
how many tens of millions. The
intention was to return and
reactivate the Canal base in the
event of war. And last autumn
our troops did indeed return—
but not to reactivate the base,
for Nasser then appropriated it.
“Now, it seems, we are to
think again about Cyprus and
Libya. ‘There is no doubt,’ Mr.
Sandys tells us, ‘that emphasis
has shifted south of the Suez
Canal.’ For the new head-
quarters of the Middle East
Commands the choice, he tells
us. lies between Aden and
Kenya. So, for the time being
at least, no more building
contracts are to be given in
Cyprus. Already, however, we
have completed or undertaken
about half of the £25-million
building programme. As for
Libya, where we had planned
to station the 10th Armored
Division, that division has now
been broken up.
“The latest casualty is our
alliance with Jordan. We have
now left Akaba and Mafraq—
with nothing to show for the
£BO million that we have sunk
in Jordan since the war.
“So in the past 10 years the
wheel has turned full circle. Let
us hope that, this time, our
base in Kenya —or is it to be
Aden? will be a well-con-
sidered project, carried through
in an orderly manner.”
Disarmament
British and U.S. press-com-
ment on the London Disarma-
ment Conference:
“N e w York Time s” :
“Marshal Zhukov accuses the
West of ‘stalling’ on disarma-
ment and announces that as a
result the Soviets are ‘forced to
do everything in their power
to strengthen the defence poten-
tial of the Soviet State and the
might of its armed forces.’
“The falsity of Marshal
Zhukov’s accusation is evident
from the record. As Sir
Winston Churchill has pointed
out, it seems clear that only the
American atomic bomb saved
Western Europe from a like
fate [subjection to Russia].
Even here the West sought dis-
armament to the point of com-
plete prohibition of the atomic
bomb if the Soviets would
disarm their mass armies as
well.
“But the Soviets would have
none of this. They demanded,
complete elimination of atomic
and nuclear weapons without
inspection or control and with-
out simultaneous conventional-
armament reduction. What is
more, they continued their
policy of expansion, which first
threatened to engulf Greece,
then did engulf Czechoslovakia
and China, and led to the
Korean war.
“It was only then that the
West, seeing itself in mortal
danger, reversed its one-sided
disarmament policy and started
to form its alliances and to
rearm. It is not the West, but
Soviet Russia, that has been
‘stalling’ on the disarmament.”
# * *
London “Time and Tide ” :
“Up to now the delegates [to
the conference] have signally
failed. The primary reason is
simply mutual distrust —neither
side has any confidence that
agreements would be kept—but


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of*—»
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:-*»
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—*
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
there are lesser reasons, too.
In the first place the several
Governments have never taken
up positions clear enough not
to require explanations and
modifications.
“This has been true of all of
them, but has of late been
particularly true of the
Americans, whose representa-
tive, Mr. Stassen, has spent
nearly a fortnight explaining an
American policy which shifts
steadily and on which there
are differences of opinion
within the American Cabinet,
within the American Services
and within Congress. In the
second place and Mr.
Stassen’s exposition is a glaring
example—the conference has
wandered very far from its
task of obtaining ‘partial agree-
ment’ and has discussed all
sorts of things on which agree-
ment is not only impossible, but
at this stage scarcely even
desirable.
“But two points of agreement
have been reached. The first is
the level to which armed forces
should be reduced as a first
step ; the second is the desira-
bility of suspending nuclear-
test explosions. But there is
no agreement yet on the period
of suspension: the Russians
have suggested two to three
years ; the Americans stick at
ten months. The Russians want
it linked to a destruction of
stockpiles ; the Western Powers
to a ‘cut-off of manufacture
of fissionable material for
military purposes.
“Both sides want some sort
of inspection and control, but
no scheme has been pro-
pounded which looks workable.
The Russians are inclined to
say that insistence on control
and inspection implies lack of
faith and have sharply refused
the British proposal that
experts. should begin to study a
control plan for the ‘cut-off.'
The position is further Compli-
cated by the disagreement of
scientists on whether control
could be made effective. If a
hydrogen-bomb can be con-
cealed in a kitchen cupboard
what inspection system can
survey every kitchen cupboard
from Seattle 1o Miami or from
Riga to Vladivostok?
“There is not the slightest
sign that there will be anything
to report except failure. Last-
minute concessions may save
the situation but at the moment
the picture is one of five men
who are unanimous in thinking
there should be a ‘partial agree-
ment’ but quite unagreed about
what should be in it.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph":
“Mr. Zorin, the Soviet delegate,
has been remarkably single-
minded. He wants, above all
else, a long-term ban on nuclear
tests. No doubt this choice of
priorities has been picked
partly for propaganda reasons.
It fits in admirably with pre-
vailing fears about the danger
of continued tests to world
health. But there is more to
it than propaganda.
“The Soviet Union appears
to have woken up to the threat
of more and more Powers
developing their own nuclear
weapons. A long-term ban on
tests, by preventing any country
that has not yet produced its
H-bomb from joining the
thermonuclear club, would go
a long way towards meeting
this threat. The Western
Powers, for their part, are also
extremely anxious to prevent a
crop of small countries pro-
ducing their own bombs. The
dangers of such a development
are only too obvious. But the
Soviets are particularly anxious
on this score, more so even
than the United States, because
they realise that the countries
most in the running for thermo-
nuclear status—France and
London “Daily Mail”
THE HOUSEWIFE’S
BURDEN
Germany—are both in the
Western camp.”
* * *
Joseph Alsop in New York
“Herald Tribune”: “The
primary Soviet objective has
not been disarmament at all.
It has been ‘limiting the nuclear
club/ to use the conferees’
cant phrase.
“The ‘club’ at present has
two full members, the Powers
possessing a full panoply of
nuclear and thermonuclear
weapons, the United States and
the U.S.S.R. It has one half-
way member, Great Britain.
“Halting further nuclear and
thermonuclear weapons tests
will close the club books to
further members, since no
nation can hope to become a
serious member of this fear-
some club without exhaustive
weapons-testing. Closing the
club-membership books with-
out further delay is in fact the


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
. EX CELLENT . CLIMA TE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A, FISHER, 8.A.. B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
WHY SUFFER FROM
RHEUMATISM
OR
ARTHRITIS
THIS WILL INTEREST YOU
When Mr. R. A. Stratton was given an old Indian formula for
the relief of Rheumatic complaints some 30 years ago, he had no
idea that one day he would be sending the Powder around the
world to relieve sufferers. “Naturally, as a strong, robust youth,
I thought little about it at the time,” said Mr. Stratton, “but in
later years I became a chronic Arthritis sufferer myself, so I had
the formula made up by a chemist and took a course of the
Powder for some months, which effected a complete cure.
“I naturally sympathised with anyone else who had been
similarly afflicted, so I decided to have the Powders prepared
in commercial quantities so I could help the numerous sufferers
from Rheumatism and Arthritis, and I must confess the results
have been amazing.”
The Company started selling the
Powder some 3 years ago, and for
a start its sales were limited to
this State, but, as a result of its
success, it was quickly acclaimed
a WORLD DISCOVERY and its
fame spread throughout Aus-
tralasia and Overseas until we now
have a world-wide clientele of
over 20.000 and we have .obtained
an enviable reputation for our
ability to bring relief to all types
of RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS.
This result, we are proud to say,
has been achieved without the use
of harmful drugs or painful injec-
tions.
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC and
ARTHRITIS POWDER, by a
unique combination of its drug-
free ingredients, can only do good
and cannot harm the system, and
in addition to its other qualities is
an excellent blood specific, laxative
and diuretic, and by stimulating
the organs and promoting a better
circulation and purer blood supply
will eradicate the cause of your
complaint from the system in a
natural and effective manner. No
other medicine is, necessary. It
cannot harm the heart, nor will it
interfere with any other course of
treatment and will further assist
you to attain a better state of
health.
Both mild and severe cases have
been effectively treated, and per-
sons who had been almost para-
lysed and crippled with hands, feet
and joint pains can now use their
limbs with perfect freedom from
pain, and numbers of cases have
been reported where men are back
at work as a result of the use of
our Wonderful Remedy, and note—
this has been accomplished by the
use of only one teaspoonful of our
Powder daily—nothing could be
simpler.
Prepared from the purest and
finest ingredients, the Powder is
a NATURAL REMEDY and NON-
HABIT FORMING, contains NO
DRUGS and can be taken with
perfect confidence by young and
old alike who are afflicted with
complaints of the RHEUMATIC
GROUP.
Sufferers who have had Cortizone,
A.C.T.H. Gold Injections, Ray
Treatment —all alike have found
relief with our proven remedy, of
whose record we are justly proud.
Thousands have found relief from
suffering. WHY NOT YOU?
A ... 4 WEEKS’ SUPPLY CARTON, Instruction Pamphlet,
TREATMENT ADVICE and SPECIAL CONCESSION
RATE VOUCHER if your complaint needs further
treatment . . . costs only £1 POST FREE. Send to: —
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER Pty. Ltd.
9 BARRACK ST., PERTH, W.A.
single point on which an
absolute identity of interest
now exists between the United
States and the Soviet Union.”
* * *
Roscoe Drummond in New
York “Herald Tribune *: “He
[Zorin] said the Soviets
wouldn’t stop making fission-
able material for nuclear
weapons unless there was an
agreed ‘ban on the use of
nuclear weapons.’ The catch
is that there is absolutely no
way to guarantee the enforce-
ment of a ban against using
atomic weapons. You can’t
inspect a state of mind. You
can’t enforce something that
you can’t know about until it
has happened.
“The use of nuclear weapons
is already ‘banned,’ as far as a
treaty commitment is con-
cerned, as a means of aggres-
sion, since aggression is illegal
under the U.N. Charter.
“And for the United States
to proclaim in advance that
it will never use atomic
weapons to defend itself means
striking from the hands of the
West the one deterrent and
military counterbalance we
have to the vast superiority
Communist nations have in
military manpower.
“There can be no safety in
a disarmament provision which
is unenforceable, and an under-
taking not to use nuclear
weapons is totally unenforce-
able.”
M.P.s' Salaries
Taking a rather kindly view
of the increase in salaries of
British M.P.s to £1750, the
British press seems largely
agreed that members were
more than due for a bit extra.
Thus: “the new figure seems
to do no more than compensate
them for the rise in living
costs” (Edinburgh “Scotsman”);
“there is no doubt that many
M.P.s and particularly Junior
Ministers have come tO be
seriously underpaid” (London
“Observer”); “this increase is
only the fifth since 1911, and
the first for the past 10 years”
(London “Financial Times”).
As an interesting variation,
London “Daily Mail” notes
that when Lloyd George intro-
duced payment for M.P.s in
1911, one of the grounds on
which he justified it was that
Parliament had come to
include members of “the
laboring population” as well as
the traditional members of the
great county families and the
legal profession.
“Labor M.P.s then rarely had
private means or other spurces
of income. It was not Seemly
that they should be sustained
at Westminster (as some were)
by passing the hat round at
home. This was one big reason
for that £4OO a year.
“That was a big change—
but see what has happened
since. Today it is sometimes
those from the ‘great county
families’ who have no visible
means of support.”
Another aspect of the new
payments (three guineas a
day attendance - money for
members of the House of
Lords) has, comments London
“News Chronicle,” “raised ‘The
Times’s’ eyebrows ; there is a
discernible twitch of the nose”:
“ ‘Payment for peers,’ ‘The
Times’ laments, ‘is a complete
innovation and there is some-
thing distasteful about it....’
It is as if a whiff from the
kitchen (or the odors of the
cuisine) had drifted upstairs.
“Yet one of the inescapable
facts of today is that the
peerage, whatever its political
coloring, is feeling the draught.
Peers have to extract half-
crowns from the public in
exchange for a glimpse of their
homes. Where largesse used to
be distributed, it is now openly
collected.”
The most common criticism
of the increased salaries is that
summed-up by London “Daily
Telegraph” :
“Perhaps the most disturb-
ing feature of the decision by
Members of Parliament to vote
themselves higher salaries is
that the disease of which it is
a symptom may itself be aggra-
vated.
“During the past 10 years
M.P.s have failed in one of
their primary responsibilities:
to preserve the soundness of the
currency. In this period the
pound has lost more than a
third of its purchasing-power.
Not only are M.P.s indemni-
fying themselves against this
failure ; they are also weaken-
ing their moral position for
the future.
“It will be more than ever
difficult to persuade wage-
earners not to ask for greater
increases in wages than is justi-
fied by the rise of productivity.
And the mere suspicion of this
will serve to undermine still
further external confidence in
the soundness of sterling. It is
more than ever necessary that
Parliament should come to the
assistance of the pound.”
Various Voices
British Chancellor of the
Exchequer Thorneycroft: “If
a nation pays itself seven per
cent, more for doing no more
work, price-increases will follow
as night follows day.”
* * *
Commentator A iclan
Crawley: “The problem of
pensions is always with us,
and their real value constantly
has to be reviewed; but has
any trainer yet won a contest
by encouraging his team to let
their minds dwell primarily on
retirement? Are we to lead an
era of expansion by creating
a generation of gardeners on
half-pay?”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Administrative Injustice
When the Victorian Housing
Commission compulsorily
acquired for £195 a block of
land admitted to be worth
£2OOO it drew from the cautious
lips of Judge Cussen the
tempered criticism “It seems a
bit hard.” Most people will
consider this a typically
judicial understatement.
Perhaps there were other
factors involved in this par-
ticular case to explain the
apparent injustice. Neverthe-
less it is symptomatic of a
more general problem. Modern
legislation is investing Govern-
ment officers with an increasing
amount of discretionary power.
The arbitrary exercise of that
power is incompatible with
democratic conceptions of
justice.
Yet some Government
officers seem to consider that
they are only limited by the
legal boundaries set to their
authority. There is no clear
recognition of the fact that
within the area of discretion
that remains they are expected
to reach reasonable and just
decisions.
Interference with private
rights is inevitable if the social
policies underlying legislation
are to be realised. However,
it is not inevitable that such
interference will result in
injustice.
It may be too much to
expect that whenever a
tribunal is set up with exten-
sive powers over private rights
the chairman of such tribunal
should have legal training.
However, it should be possible
to train important administra-
tive officers in elementary legal
procedure and the basic legal
concepts of natural justice.
Apparent injustice will dis-
credit a Government as much
as injustice itself. If the
Administration exercises its dis-
cretionary powers unwisely
justice will demand that it be
hobbled with more extensive
legal restrictions. Fiat
JUSTITIA (Vic.).
“Commonwealth” Talks
All the newspaper and other
critics who once again re-
peated their monotonous com-
plaints about the cliches of the
communique which marked
the end of the Commonwealth
Prime Ministers’ conference
failed to give any thought to
Sir Eric Harrison’s earlier sug-
gestion that the “white” nations
of the Commonwealth might
find it useful to have some
separate powwows. Admit-
tedly, the present attitude of
South Africa might make its
exclusion desirable, but there
is a lot to be said for some
good talks between Britain,
Australia, New Zealand and
Canada.
There would be nothing
derogatory in such talks to the
other nations which still be-
long, for various reasons, to
the Commonwealth associa-
tion. Ghana and Ceylon and
India, and even Pakistan, could
take no exception to such a
gathering, at which there could
be a degree of frankness not
now possible. Admittedly the
present conferences include a
good deal of behind-the-scenes,
talks, but these are not official
or representative of all the
nations with common interests.
More and more people are
wondering what the “Com-
monwealth” means, and what
the future relationships among
the present members, with their
diverse loyalties and varying
views on the most basic issues,
are likely to be. How much is
gained from it? Is it slowly
dissolving, and are any steps
desirable in an attempt to pre-
serve it? — Whither Now
(N.S.W.).
Mining and Taxation
Stressing the need to make
North Australia attractive to
both capital and workers, the
Australian Institute of Politi-
cal Science has advocated con-
siderable remission of taxation
for people in that area.
It’s a good idea. Goldmining
is free of taxation and is also
subsidised to some extent
according to costs of produc-
tion. The small-scale producer
of 5000 z., worth £7BOO a
year, receives a subsidy of 30s.
per ounce, making a total
£B5OO, all free of tax. That
action is necessary, particularly
so as a mine on the borderline
is both difficult and costly to
reopen once closed. In fact,
moves are afoot to increase the
assistance.
But what of the base-metal
producers? The larger ones
attract and keep population in
areas where previously there
were only odd inhabitants ; the
smaller ones rarely reach an
annual production of £8550.
If that amount, free of taxa-
tion, is considered the mini-
mum amount for a goldmine
to operate, why shouldn’t the
same amount, or say £lO,OOO,
apply to small-scale base-metal
producers? Many goldminers,
working gold ores with base-
metal (lead) values, were dis-
heartened when the latter
attracted taxation.
The prospector on foot is
still an integral part of mineral
exploration, so why not en-
courage him? —Ex (Q.).
U.N.O.
Churchill has voiced the
suspicions of most of us:
“Don’t place overmuch reliance
for security on the U.N.0.”
U.N.O.’s fatal blunder was
in succumbing to U.S.A.
influence to move its head-
quarters to New York. It
thus forfeited its air of im-
partiality. Americans no doubt
love to have it there, and
Britishers and Europeans can
tolerate the location well
enough if any good is to come
of the organisation. But who
can believe that the curtained
countries will ever regard
U.N.O. with anything but
suspicion so long as its head-
quarters are in U.S.A. territory?
Better, far better, it had
remained at Geneva; or, if it
had to move, then why not to
Greece, the birthplace of
democracy, ideally situated
and, most important, free of
suspicion of powerful local
national influence? Myrjlo
(N.S.W.).
Handwriting
One of the largest inter-
national firms operating in
Australia has reverted to hand-
written dockets, invoices, state-
ments and office records.
With resources in the multi-
million range, they success-
fully introduced automation in
the factories, followed by com-
plete office-mechanisation. The
machines installed comprised
special dispatch-slips and in-
voice typewriters, electric-card
and ledger posters, master-card
"He must've lost the scent."


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Establi;hed 1808 in Reign oj
George 111 .
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.S.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
and journal computor-posters,
address embossers and printers.
Delayed and frustrated by
machine breakdowns, operator
hysteria and culpable absentee-
ism, the general office became
a centre of erupting tension.
Investigation showed that all
problems could be solved by a
redesign of stationery; more
printed data ; fixed wholesale
prices instead of varying dis-
counts, with interest added to
overdue accounts.
All printed forms were
planned for handwriting-in of
details as tests showed a girl
could write a name and address
and fill-in sales details whiie
the average operator was fidget-
ing with the paper in one of
the special machines. The
girls generally proved to be
excellent writers and capable
of clear figure-work. Simple
adding-machines were supplied
to assist computation. Win-
dow-type envelopes eliminated
the addressing-machines.
The scheme was tried for
two months. It worked. No
delays; overtime not neces-
sary ; no abnormal absentee-
ism ; monthly records up-to-
date with two days in hand.
The key travelling document
is the goods-dispatch note.
There are no other carbon-
copies. Zoned in districts for
deliveries, one girl looks after
each color-coded area’s docu-
ments in a simple rotary filing-
system.
There is now a quiet air of
efficiency, diligence and staff-
contentment not seen In a busy
office for many a day.
The summation? An impos-
ing assortment of modern
machines, resting under their
covers, awaiting buyers.— Old
Opencut (S.A.).
I agree with “Xavier” (B.
10/7/’57) that well-formed
italic script is legible and easy
on the eyes, but I am yet to be
convinced that the conven-
tional style is not the best of
all.
Strictly, script is not hand-
writing, but hand-printing.
Whatever speed it attains, it
must lack the graceful flow of
handwriting, as most of the
letters do not join so naturally.
Continuity is one of the prin-
cipal virtues of handwriting.
Moreover, carelessness and
illegibility are as possible in
script as in handwriting. I’ve
waded through pages of italic
script which have made the eyes
ache.
All children should learn to
write in a fluent, well-propor-
tioned business hand after
script-writing has given them
the grounding in letter-forma-
tion. — Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Car-thiev es
Victoria’s humanity to car-
thieves (B. 3/7/’57) strikes me
as bordering upon inhumanity
to car-owners. Also, while
admitting the difficulties con-
fronting magistrates in finding
punishment to fit the crime,
to single out car-theft as a
minor offence seems the surest
way of aggravating its inci-
dence.
No responsible community
sends its youths and young men
to jail willy-nilly, but car-
owners are entitled to full pro-
tection and, when the clemency
of bonds and fines fails, the
severer penalty of imprison-
ment should be imposed.
Sydney magistrates found that
sentiment in respect to the
average car-thief simply
encouraged him; that’s why
most magistrates today are
sending all but the first-
offender to prison.
Actually, costs of policing
and compensating make car-
theft a major rather than a
minor crime. Reformers not-
withstanding, it is difficult to
find a mitigating circumstance
condoning the illegal use of a
car —nine times in 10 it’s theft
pure and simple while the
sufferer at all times is the
already overburdened owner.
Victimised house-owners aren't
further exasperated by the too-
sentimental treatment of house-
breakers ; neither should car-
owners be exposed to the
probable illegal use of their
cars by kid-glove handling
of apprehended thieve s. —-
—P. O. M.C. (N.S.W.).
Balanced Education
There are 800 students
enrolled for subjects in the
law course at Melbourne Uni-
versity, but this huge number,
and the small number of full-
time teaching staff, still lack
any building which can be
described as a law school—
quite apart from a question of
a building which would pro-
vide adequate facilities for
teaching. Instead, the law
faculty has to lean on the
generosity of other faculties
and use lecture-theatres and
accommodation quite unsuited
to legal training.
To some extent this is a
problem common to all Aus-
tralian universities and arising
from their straitened circum-
stances. However, the root
causes lie much deeper. In
post-war years -the humanities
have suffered from the huge
expansion that has taken place
in scientific fields, and the
limited finances available have
been appropriated to the more
apparently pressing claims of
technical development.
No one will hope to reverse
the trend, but most will hope
for a more equal balance.
There is a tendency to forget
that development only has
meaning when it is related to
human needs and desires. The
scientist is no better equipped
than the laborer to devise
effective schemes for the con-
trol of atomic power or to
translate the dreams of men
into peaceful realities. Man
is gaining a more complete
mastery of his destiny, but
technical training will never
aid him to exercise that power
wisely. A training in the
humanities may. MacD.
(Vic.).
Tobacco
As a tobacco-farmer, I can’t
pass over the remarks of
“Nicodemus” (B. 10/7/’57)
and others with reference to
Australian-grown leaf. Aus-
tralian tobacco, especially that
from Ashford and Riverton in
N.S.W., and that from the
sandy-type soils in the
Mareeba-Dimbulah district in
North Queensland, is equal to
the world’s best in every
lespect.
A blindfold smoking test
conducted by any reader


among his smoking acquaint-
ances, using so-called “Aus-
tralian”-brand cigarettes and
North Queensland cigarettes
produced of 100 per cent. Aus-
tralian leaf, should convince
him. Cigarette-smoking is a
habit, and addiction to any one
brand is mostly habit, too. So-
called Australian brands have
had percentages of Australian
ieaf increased over the years,
besides having Virginia leaf
substantially replaced by
Rhodesian leaf-tobacco, which
is considerably inferior to Aus-
tralian flue-cured. References
to the taint of eucalyptus are
too absurd for comment.
A photograph of the first
commercial lo&d of tobacco
which left Mareeba in North
Queensland showed a placard
reading: Smoke good Aus-
tralian leaf and sprag that
Virginian bluff,’ something the
farmers are still trying to do.
As to the inclusion of
crushed tobacco-stems, this
practice was introduced during
the war-years without any song-
and-dance from smokers on the
rapid deterioration of the
smoke. In America in some
factories the whole leaf, stem
and all, is pulverised and
processed to make up sheets of
homogenised tobacco-leaf
which is cut-up to give the
illusion of long threads of leaf
without waste or fines. ’
Any suggestion that the con-
centration is on quantity, not
quality, is utter poppycock,
The grower who does so will
find himself with a bulkshed of
unsold leaf on his hands. The
call is for light, thin-textured,
sweet-smelling tobacco, and
growers are finding it increas-
mgly difficult to sell even good-
quality “leaf” i.e., leaves
from over halfway up the
plant—at a satisfactory price.—
R. G. V. (Q ).
-p
0 , , t- * ~
. The State Forest Comm:a-
-!!° n , s n “ r ? e 7 <?• 10 / 7 { 57 > at
, Wall . <Vl f> ~a lso distributes
trees for planting, and last year
sold 130,000 tree seedlings,
o s 11 y to jVXsllcc 3.nd
Wimmera farmers, who now
realise more fully the value of
trees grown on farms,
This nursery, started by
A j. Gray in 1945 to p rov ide
the trees most suited to
10-15 in.-rainfall areas, now has
350 different species, and an
expert there advises buyers—
who, at the mile-square
nursery site, can see these trees
in all stages of development-
which varieties will best suit
their needs and the conditions
j n their districts,
The seedling trees, grown in
wooden tubes, pack easily,
transport safely over distances
and can be planted without
any check from root-disturb-
ance.
Seed collected at Wail is
also distributed widely, not
only in Victoria and near-by
South Australia but in the
Northern Territory (the
Administrator in Alice Springs
has in front of his home a tree
that came from Wail); the
seed goes also to Israel and
India; and the demand is
growing. Sales revenue, which
goes back into nursery develop-
ment, last year was £6700, a
great increase on the £672 for
1948-49.—M’Lou (Vic.).
Sydney’s Opera House
Of Course it will be hard to
justify Sir Bernard Heinze’s
proposal for a Federal enter-
tainments tax to help pay for
Sydney’s opera house (B.
24/7 / ’57). I’m a fervent
admirer of our musical knight,
but I’m hanged if I can see
why the public should be
forced to contribute to a
scheme which many don’t
favor. And why should those
who’ve already made handsome
donations to the project be
expected to hand-out still
more every time they wish to
see a show?
There’s another point: are
we to acquire a cultural centre
at the expense of those excel-
lent institutions which have
worked long and painstakingly
in the cause of our cultural
development? Such bodies
are faced with difficulties
enough as it is. Rents of halls
continue on the up-and-up;
you can’t hire a piano for a
concert under £lO (I remem-
ber the days when firms were
only too pleased to lend their
best grands for free, provided
you acknowledged the loan on
the programme); and fares are
a fantastic slug.
Anybody with experience in
the running of these organisa-
tions will tell you it isn’t young
people you depend on to keep
them alive. The best bets in
this connection are the elderly
—retired teachers on super-
annuation and other folk on
small pensions. Train-fares
alone now amount to more
than the entire sum one
formerly allowed for a night
out.
Expense piled on expense is
rapidly pushing a number of
useful and desirable societies
out of existence. Several went
into “recess” a year or two
back and have had to stay
there. Last week I attended a
meeting of a group which
boasted a hundred or so
members in the not-so-distant
past: I found an audience of
exactly 12 gathered in a small
out-of-the-way room.
If the suggested tax is
imposed we’ll probably get the
opera house, but we’ll also deal
the death-blow to some worthy
institutions which have cer-
tainly played their part in
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 446
Across
I—Christmas1 —Christmas doesn’t mean much to this Christmas dinner. (6)
4 —Give a performance fitted with cogwheels with the corners
turned up. (3-5)
8— A versatile medico surrounds a Sydney cliff whose victims
are usually beyond medical attention. (3)
9 A dipt which includes venison. (9)
11 —Warm-hearted Communist relations. (7)
12 — Infuriate a long-term member of
the Spanish Armada. (7)
13 — Grating is usual with such an
eccentric girl. (6)
15 —Shelling removes them. (3-4)
19 — Sort 150 quadrupeds. (7)
20— Let give it a wave! (6)
23 —Klemperer relative of ape furni-
ture who might be found in
1-across. (7)
25 —A woolgrower, according to the
very young Phoenician god
accompanying a medical
graduate. (3-4)
27 —Sick horseshoe digs lights. (9)
29 Run into an ash-container. (3)
30 — Bears giving us back blemishes.
(8)
31 — Where glances go after Margaret
who has suffered an amputation.
(6)
Down
1 — “The Man in the Iron Mask” was
thought to be this melodious
chirping. (8)
2 Anger deformed this Shak-
spearian. (5)
3 Former railwaymen who are
entitled to credit overseas? (9)
4 It makes an impression cross the
Styx. (3)
5 Electric light is visible about the
girl; nonetheless, she's in the
midst of it. (5)
6 City mother of a bounder. (9)
7 Fish of the French marker of
wrong answers in quiz shows. (6)
9—Dyer is hiding in part of Sydney.
(4)
10 —Firesides for the single. (6)
14 —Legends about an archer who was
able to split apples and peaches.
(9)
16— A pure term, (anagram) (9)
17— A noted American Quaker on a
kind of flag. (6)
18— Pink fish sheltering horses. (8)
21— Roy Rene competes with films. (6)
22 I encore a wading bird. (4)
24—Mother goes to the doctor on a
snake. (5)
26 —Invalidate. (5)
28 —East has a manuscript consisting
entirely of German city letters. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 445


MIS love for the imagery of
the little green men of the
Irish walked about in the form
of Irish-Australian poet Victor
J. Daley. Whilst Randolph had
a fine house in Grey Street,
East Melbourne named
White Feather after the
Western Australian mine which
gave him the riches to build
the house —Victor Daley lived
in a poor, rented cottage in
Collingwood near by. When
Daley would not come up to
help drink a bottle from the
Bedford cellar, Randolph
would go over to Victor’s and
sit on a box (there being an
obvious lack of chairs) and
drink a bottle of wine with the
gentle Daley.
After Daley died in 1905
Bedford told the story of how
the Sisters of Mercy at Waitara
(Sydney) had been trying to
coax that gentle soul to eat.
“Oh, Mr. Daley, you must
eat something! Look at those
lovely chops, and nice green
peas. Sister has gone to so
much trouble to have them
beautifully served for you.”
“I’m sorry, Rev. Mother,”
Daley had said, “but I could
not eat them even if they
were off the lamb of God.”
And Victor Daley had
written:
And dreaming how we twain
some day,
Careless of map or chart,
Will both take ship, and sail
away,
Into the sunset’s heart .
Victor sailed shortly after-
wards.
Randolph’s great heart was a
bulwark against unhappiness
for such men. He always
wanted to make a million and
give it away. He made several
fortunes, and all over Australia
there were men who took from
his generous hand. For that
reason he was ever chasing
mines, ever finding new ways of
making money; sometimes
making it, and always giving it
away.
When I was in New York in
1936 I often met Frank
Nankivell, the mezzo- and
aqua-tinter who came from
Creswick, Victoria, as did the
Lindsays.
“I’ll never forget Randolph
Bedford,” said Nankivell.
“When he was here in 1923 I
needed a few hundred dollars.
I needed it very badly. I did
not know Randolph was short.
He gave me the money. Later
I found out he’d cancelled his
berth on a good ship, and had
gone home to Australia in a
tramp, so that I could have his
few hundred dollars.”
building-up the public’s interest
jn literature, art and music.—
Maitri (N.S.W.).
Union Ethics
The “N.T. News” of
2/7/’57 reported that a wharfie
had been fined £5O for the un-
“Observe the thwarted expression on THAT
driver's face."
lawful possession of an ice-box,
Mr. S. Dodds, S.M., saying that
he made the penalty heavy as
a deterrent to others. Those
who have had any experience
of the activities of pilferers on
the Darwin waterfront will
applaud his action.
In an editorial, the paper
said that the “vigilance officer”
from the North Australian
Workers’ Union had called the
previous day and demanded
that the report of the case be
deleted from the paper, giving
as his excuse that to publish
the report would be “to chop
the head off a worker.” He
threatened the paper with re-
taliatory action if the report
were published. The executive
officers of the union were not
available for comment.
It is to be hoped that this
information reaches the Minis-
ter for the Territories, and that
he will take drastic action
against any person who
attempts to suppress the free-
dom of the N.T. press on any
future occasion.—Sandpatch
(N.S.W.).
Pensions and Politics
In Mr. Menzies’s electorate of
Kooyong (Vic.) and in Yarra,
Cairns, M.H.R., has been busy
collecting signatures to a
petition for £l-a-week increase
in pensions. He knows there
is no hope of such an increase.
He is supposed to be an
economist but ignores the most
elementary law —you can’t take
more out of a pool than you
put in.
Mr. Cairns’s belated interest
in the plight of pensioners is
remarkable in view of Labor’s
record during its long tenure of
office. Even a half-crown
increase was a remarkably
generous gesture on the part
of the then Labor Government.
I’d like to see the comparative
figures of pension . increases
during the Labor Government’s
reign and that of the present
Government. Perhaps Mr.
Cairns or Mr. Ward will ask
for them when Parliament
meets!
Mr. Menzies, who does not
suffer fools gladly, has put
Cairns in his place more than
once in the House, hence the
petition in the Kooyong
electorate. It will be a poor
election subterfuge, for, with
Evatt riding the uncontrollable
Moscow moke of Democratic
Socialism, you can' write your
own ticket on the result. —•
Tim (Vic.).
Council' Rates
Because baby-clinics are free,
“Maitri” (B. 19/6/’57) is mis-
led into thinking that they are
for poor people who can't
afford to pay a doctor.
These clinics are for the
guidance of all mothers in the
feeding and general manage-
ment of healthy babies. Sick
infants are referred to a doctor.
Rare is the doctor these days
who deals in infant-feeding.
I agree with “Eureka” (B.
19/6/’57) that councils should
supply a reference library (with
a classical section) and that
the fiction side is unnecessary.
Even teenagers can afford to
pay their sixpence or shilling
per book for their general read-
ing-matter these days.
On the other matter of high
rates in our garden suburbs, it
is certainly a pity to see the
beautiful gardens disappear
and the gracious homes left in
small allotments or divided into
flats.
But I have as much sym-
pathy for a man who can
afford to turn down £2OOO for
part of his half-acre as I have
for the man who complains of
the amount of tax he pays on
£lO,OOO a year.— R. O’Donnell
(N.S.W.).


f Roor
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHT’S
WIRE NETTING ® FENCING WIRE
WIRE NAILS
ESTABLISHED 1884
BARBED WIRE
ZINC OXIDE
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
m
m
mm
■
a
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Keg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Hoad,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
GETTING THE SHEEP SHORN
r pHERE are three ways of
A getting your sheep shorn:
1. Station shearing—organis-
ing it yourself.
2. Cost -plus system—by the
big co-operative shearing com-
p an i es
3. The private shearing
contractor
As a safety measure
all arsenic sheep dip
containers should be
burned after use. It
should also be remem-
bered that discarded
liquid dip is a danger
and steps should be
taken to destroy it.
Another wise precau-
tion is to use Elastra-
tor Rubber Rings for
marking and tailing
lambs.
Station shearing can be the
cheapest, and also the dearest.
In the “off” season, between
Christmas and June, it’s no
trouble to go into any fair-
sized country town and
pick-up a team from cook
to woolpresser. You ' may,
of course, get a team of
“snaggers” (very slow men), or
a team of no-hopers who lie in
the huts for days with alcoholic
“flue.” The shearing may drag
on interminably, with the final
cost per sheep way above that
of the other two systems.
In a casual pick-up, too,
there is always the chance of
getting a professional malcon-
tent in the team, one of whose
suitcases is chock-a-block with
Commo literature. This loud-
voiced character usually
becomes union rep. and starts
disputes over trifling imperfec-
tions in the accommodation,
organises meetings every day,
and delivers one ultimatum
after another . . . Again, it’s a
long, bitter and expensive
shearing. But, of course, you
may get a decent team of men
out for a quick quid, and you
will save money on your
shearing.
In the main shearing-season
—July-November—it’s pretty
hard to organise a good station
shearing. The good men are
all in good runs of sheds.
A lot of owners use the
second system—several pence
per sheep above all costs,
according to the number of
sheep. These owners maintain
it works out quite a few pence
per sheep cheaper than with
a private contractor, and there
is not the worry of station
shearing.
But owners who stick to the
private-contract system say
that in the height of the general
shearing, with dozens of sheds
“going off” (starting) together,
in the scramble for good men
the cost -plus contractor often
gets what’s left. They also say
the cost -plus sheds sometimes
start with two or three shearers
short, but with a full team of
shed-hands on the payroll ;
again, costs soar. They criticise,
too, the method adopted in the
four-, five- and six-stand sheds
of the overseer doing several
jobs—boss of the board, expert,
classer or woolroller. There’s
a natural tendency, they point
out, for the wool to be
“slummed” when one man tries
to do too much.
Another bottleneck is the
shortage—in the general shear-
ing—of competent, experienced
overseers. The cost -plus people
are often forced to send out
brash youths fresh from the
Tech. Old hands among the
shearers resent being chipped
by youngsters, and will “cut
themselves out of it” (force the
sack), often taking a couple
of mates with them. Again,
costs rise.
The professional shearer is
suspicious of the cost -plus
system: “They try to keep you
poor,” he says, by what he
considers excessive travelling
between sheds. Shearers also
resent what they call a
“Gestapo” system of reports by
overseers to head-office, not
only on shearing ability, but
on behavior in shed and town
and degree of A.W.U. zealous-
ness.
But these are specialised
viewpoints: undoubtedly,
under good conditions full
team, no “blues,” and no pro-
longed wet weather —the cost-
plus system is cheaper than the
private contractor.
Dougherty, of the A.W.U.,
calls the private contractor “an
industrial cushion”; he pro-
bably shears the majority of
sheep in Australia.
Since War II there has been
a mushroom growth of con-
tractors. Every fair-sized town
has several. Many of them, 10
years ago, were shearers,
kicking-off with a mobile two-
stand plant, “dropping the
wool” for very small cockies.
Now they have become large
employers, with dozens of
bigger sheds.
They employ local labor,
often relatives and cobbers.
For many months of the year
they can keep these men fully
employed (shearing, crutching,
lamb-shearing) within weekend
striking-distance of home. This
development of “suburban
shearing” has reduced by a
great deal the hardship of the
game Being home with Mum
each weekend is the shearer’s
ideal ; better than months of
exile out on the Paroo. Some
contractors have helped their
“gun” shearers build their own
homes.
These local shearers, realis-
ing they are on a good thing,
rarely “jack-up” over any-
thing ; always vote the sheep
dry, and put up without protest
with poor accommodation and
“contractors’ ” —cheap—cooks.
This guaranteed, smooth,
trouble-free, “cushioned” shear-
ing costs the grazier plenty. A
fair lump of a shed with, say,
10 shearers, taking a month,


Buu a tlttflfcr
Quality
STORM LANTERN
and get value for
money! Gives 12 hours
brilliant light on only l£
pints of kerosene. Abso-
lutely wind and weather-
proof. A Reflector Is i
available as an extra if J
required. I
And 100% British Made too I \
300 Candlepower
Model X 246
the diUekncef
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores throughout Australia,
In ease of difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE :
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
will yield a “cop” to the con-
tractor of between £lOOO and
£l5OO.
A contractor remarked, “I
like to lose a day’s work in a
shed through rain. It only sets
me back a few quid, and the
cocky, seeing the rousies lying
round the huts eating their
heads off, congratulates him-
self on being smart enough to
get his shed done contract.”
The contractor says he has
earned this big money. He has
backed a winner—there have
been many losers in these last
few, very wet, years, disastrous
to contractors “punt in g”
against a lot of rain.
The contractor reckons
handling a big mob of shearers,
full of life and temperament, is
as arduous as managing a
national opera company.
Owners paying full price for
their shearing—sometimes up
to nearly 4s. a sheep—are often
remiss in not insisting that the
contractor employ a full com-
plement of experienced shed-
hands. A 14-stand shed in
western N. S. Wales this year
had two piece-pickers and three
woolrollers. The pieces were
“dumped” and the fleece-lines,
through appalling overskirting,
were nearly halved in quantity.
It’s even more important to
the owner that the woolclasser
supplied by the contractor is
keen and competent not a
local man (to save fares) who
once read the first few pages of
some woolclassing correspon-
dence course.
Bluetongue.
"Value of Silage"
Hold hard there, “J.J.A.” I
wasn’t slinging-off at farmers
because they pile-up expensive
hay, but because they ignore
cheap silage.
The whole purpose of my
contribution (B. 12/6/’57),
showing that my silage cost
15s. a ton, all up, by contract,
and tested as high as 19 per
cent, protein, was to ram home
to the 99 per cent, of Aus-
tralian graziers who have
seldom seen and never made
silage that grass-silage is a good
deal cheaper than hay. It can
be cut weeks earlier, and gives
one a chance to spin-out the
harvesting period several weeks.
One doesn’t necessarily
make silage instead of hay,
but, rather, as well as hay.
“J.J.A.,” in his final paragraph
(B. 17/7/’57), hits the nail hard
on the head: “For myself, I’d
make silage when I could, then
turn the rest into hay.” That’s
it, my boy! That’s just what we
want. Silage is better than hay
only in so far that the crop cut
is higher in protein, because
it is less mature. Silage is
much cheaper than hay,
protein-unit for protein-unit, if
it is made in the paddock where
it was cut.
The twine alone for a ton
of hay costs nearly 15s; 15s.
will pay all the costs (other
than depreciation and repairs)
of making two tons of hay
with the forage-harvester my
contractor used.
I know that some of the
American ranches are making
cheap hay in small stacks, but
that is not happening here.
Here are the facts, checked
and repeated. The actual
contract charge for baled hay
cut, baled, carted and stacked
is within a few shillings of
£4 15s. a ton in my district
[Menzies Creek, Vic.]. My
contract-cost for silage cut,
stacked and rolled was 15s.
a ton. The dry-matter of my
silage was 37 per cent.
The actual protein-content of
my silage was between 16 per
cent, and 19 per cent, (on a
dry-matter basis). The average
protein-content of hay in Vic-
toria is about 8 per cent., and
the protein-content of good
cardboard can be as high as
6 per cent. So that comparison
was not as far-fetched as it
may have seemed.
K. G. SCHOEFFEL.
Lambing Percentages
“Bolivar”: It is remarkable
that Australian stockbreeders,
over the years, have spent an
enormous amount of time,
energy and care, as well as
sizeable quantities of money,
improving the quality and
weight of wool, the beef and
milk yield of cattle, and the
like, but no one has done any-
thing about increasing the
fertility of sheep; or, if some-
one has, he has kept remark-
ably quiet about it.
The average lambing-rate of
our flocks is absurdly low. It
is no excuse that a great number
of sheep are run on big pastoral
holdings, on which it is not
possible to give sheep all the
care they should have for
optimum welfare. They should,
at least, receive the care at
lambing which the employment
of shepherds would give them.
That is only one point: the
position in the agricultural
country is no better; and
many stud-breeders have little
to be proud of, in this respect,
when they look at their lamb-
ing-averages.
We have made little advance
in lambing-averages. Thirty
years ago the man who marked
80 per cent, of his lambs from
crossbred sheep was well
pleased with himself; and so
is his son today if he marks
the same percentage.
Most breeders still reckon
a lambing of 80 per cent, is
good. A man who owned the
biggest purebred flock of an
English breed of sheep in this
State [W.A.], and who was
highly regarded as a breeder,
got no more, and expected no
more.
Yet this man was breeding
sheep descended from flocks
which, in England, under no
better conditions of food and
climate, averaged from 120 per
cent, to 150 per cent, of lambs.
What had happened was that
the fertility of the flock had
been bred out. This has
happened all over Australia,
and is a major reason (there
are others, such as bad hus-
bandry) for our low lambing-
percentages compared with
New Zealand and the U.K.
What has been bred out can
be bred in again,'if sufficiently
intelligent care is given to con-
trolled breeding, but if the
problem is to be solved it must,
first of all, be recognised by the
stud-breeders.
If, by careful breeding, it is
possible to eliminate horns
from cattle, to fix a type and
color, and to improve the
quality and yield of wool—as
has been done most spectacu-
larly in Australia —it is equally
possible to increase the fer-
tility of sheep. Fertility is
inheritable, and can be fixed.
If breeders would take the
trouble to put a distinguishing
mark on those ewes which give
birth to twins or triplets, keep
track of the lambs and breed
from them, and then inbreed,
they would soon raise their
percentages.
This argument has been dis-
puted: at least one Australian
sheep authority, a university
man, has flatly condemned the
argument, because, he said,
there is nothing to prove it.
Any stud-breeder of British
sheep, in fact, any breeder of


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
MI
-V,.
.
Wriie for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOT (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, G. GORDON RUSSELL, A. MURRAY JONES.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager,
any sheep, can prove it if he
liked to take the trouble.
A ewe that has given multiple
births is likely to do so aga : n,
and her lambs inherit the
characteristic, both male and
female. Breeding and inbreed-
ing on these lines could bring
the productivity of our ewes
to the level of other countries.
J. Martin Lenthall, of Brid-
port, Dorset, is the owner of
the famous Bradstock stud of
Dorset Horns, and in purchas-
ing Australian Dorset Horns to
include in his English flock
has acknowledged that, in some
respects, we have improved on
the English sheep.
But he said: “I think Aus-
tralian breeders have done
away with some of the charac-
teristics of the old breed and
lost one or two assets, such
as milk quality, lambing per-
centages, and the strong, broad,
pink nostril. At home, a 150
per cent, lambing is not unusual
and at times I have averaged
over 170 per cent. One way in
which I explain these high
lambing percentages is that I
never use a lamb unless it is a
twin lamb.”
According to “The British
Farmer,” a Mrs. Stephenson, of
Wolsingham, County Durham,
runs a small flock of Wensley-
dales as a sideline: “She
manages to maintain a lambing
ratio of about 200 per cent.” It
can fairly be suggested that she
does not achieve this result
by accident.
The writer once owned a
small flock of Romney Marsh
in South Gippsland (Vic.).
These were all descended from
a few ewes originally imported
from New Zealand, and all of
these were known to have bred
twins.
In one season he had a
lambing of 200 per cent.:
“Someone’s just landed on the moon —looks like the
damned Russians!"
every ewe had twins except two.
One of these had a single lamb,
and the other had triplets. The
flock included the original ewes,
some of which, by that time,
were 10 years old.
Merinos, in comparison with
the British breeds of sheep,
have always been regarded as
light breeders, but where they
have been bred and culled
intelligently they give results
equal or superior to many cross-
bred flocks of ewes.
A farmer at Trayning (W.A.)
in a 12-inch rainfall has two
flocks of Merinos that he has
been breeding with care and
intelligence for 20 years. A
couple of years ago he had a
lambing of 98 per cent, from
one flock, and of 94 per cent,
from the other.
Every sheepbreeder has heard
or read of results such as these,
but in almost every case he
regards them as isolated
instances which could have
little bearing on his own lamb-
ing-records.
The academic investigator
into the fertility of Australian
sheep seems inclined to rely on
hormone injections and the like
to make the rams more rammy
and the ewes more useful.
It has remained for the
Stellenbosch-Elsenburg College
of Agriculture of South Africa
to tackle the problem in the
proper way, and the results of
the work conducted over the
last five years are remarkable.
P. 1. van Rensburg, chief of
the sheepbreeding experiments
at the college, was particularly
impressed by the lamb-produc-
tion of two German Merino
ewes. These two ewes v have
lambing-percentages of 260 and
250 per cent, respectively over
the past five years.
Van Rensburg claims that his
experiments nave proved that
it is not only possible to breed
an abnormally high wool-
bearing capacity (we have done
that in Australia"), but that
abnormally high fertility can
also be inbred.
Both these ewes were related
to Ram 15, the sire which
raised the fertility of the
Stellenbosch-Elsenburg flock
by 60 per cent.
The following is the record
supplied for each ewe:
Ewe 243/715; born 1952: first
mating 1953.
1954 (ewe’s weight 1721 b.);
I iplets, two rams and one ewe.
1955 (weight 1691 b.); twins, two
rams.
1956 (weight 1811 b.); triplets, two
ewes and one ram.
1957 (weight 1911 b.); twins, two
ewes.
Ewe 51.22/14.15; born 1951; first
mating 1952.
1953 (ewe's weight 1861 b.); twins,
one ram and one ewe.
1954 (weight 1921 b.); triplets, two
ewes and a ram.
1955 (weight 1801 b.); twins, one
ewe and one ram.
1956 (weight 1771 b.); triplets, two
ewes and one ram.
1957 (weight 2001 b.); triplets, two
rams and one ewe.
It should be pointed out that
each of these ewes bore twins
or triplets at its first lambing,
and that, weighed when mated,
they did not lose any weight
over the years.
In the case of twins, the
lambs weighed from 101 b. to
121 b. at birth, while the triplets
weighed from 71b. to 10|lb.
Ewe 51.22/14.15 produced
13 lambs in five lambings, all
well formed, and the majority
of stud-book quality.
She was sired by Ram 15,
which was mated with one of
his sisters and the result should
be sufficient proof of the value
of intelligently controlled in-
breeding.
The South African report is
necessarily brief and does not
give any information about the
total number of sheep under
experiment, but as it states that
most of the lambs were entered
in the Stud Register it would
appear that it was conducted
on a reasonable scale, and that
the two ewes quoted are the
outstanding examples.
When it is considered that the
Australian lambing average is
something like 60 per cent., it
is obvious that there is a great
need for some similar work


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Sulscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. .. .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £*/l*/« Forelcn .... «/•/*
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.i Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
to be undertaken by the appro-
priate research bodies here.
In the meantime, if breeders
mark and keep their ewes
which give multiple-births, and
the lambs from those births,
and never sell a ewe of that
kind, they can do much to help
themselves.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(25/7/’57)
Queensland is likely to have only light to moderate
patchy rains during August, although reasonably good rain
is probable on the central highlands. General rains in Sep-
tember, with heaviest falls and a likelihood of flooding on
the central highlands and central coast.
The central and southern tablelands, central west,
south-west slopes and Riverina should get reasonably good
rains during August, light to moderate, patchy rains for the
remainder of N.S.W. Moderate to good general rains in
September.
Victoria should get good general rains during August,
with likelihood of flooding in the northern half of the
State. Similar conditions in September.
Reasonably good rain likely in South Australia during
August, although the Murray Valley may get only light to
moderate rain, with light rain in the interior. The Main
cycle indicates excellent rains in the interior during August,
so that better rains may come.
In Western Australia good rains are likely in the De
Grey, Gascoyne, Fortescue and goldfields areas during
August, with general rains in the south-west agricultural
areas.
LENNOX WALKER.
First Australian-made
Crawler-tractor
“T.”: The first crawler-
tractor to be produced in Aus-
tralia, the Oliver OCI2 (which
is identical with the wholly
imported OC12), was listed as
“available from distributors”
in luly. A new company,
Oliver Australasia Pty., Ltd.,
was formed to handle produc-
tion, which was carried out in
association with British
Standard Machinery Co., Ltd.
Britstand equipment, both
tractor-attached and tractor-
drawn, was already available
for the Australian Oliver
002, including a new toolbar-
bulldozer combination and a
new front-end loader, which
will shortly be added to the
range of Australian-made
equipment.
Harvester-ant
“Myall”: The harvester-ant
has become a great pest in
many parts of the Darling
Downs (Q.). One farmer has
estimated his loss from harves-
ter-ants ’ at £lO,OOO over the
past three years.
The ants gather small seeds,
such as canary, linseed, and
millets of various kinds, from
the drills, and store them in
their Cmderground nests. Wheat
and sorghum, being too large
to be carried away, are de-
voured in the drills, which
necessitates the replanting of
the crop, with the resultant loss
of seed, fuel and labor.
Dieldrin 2 per cent, dust has
proved very effective against
the pests, seed that has been
treated being left untouched.
The best method of applying
the dust is through a seed-
grader, in the same manner that
seed is pickled, about 4oz.
being used to the cwt. This
gives complete coverage, but
many growers sprinkle the dust
over the grain as it is poured
into the combine-box, and mix
it thoroughly just before sow-
ing. Dieldrin dust is poison-
ous, so take care when mixing:
do it in the open, where the
breeze will clear the fine dust
away.
Seed dusted with dieldrin has
given excellent “strikes” in land
heavily infested with the ants.
Mallee Shelter
“Pimpinio”: The mallee-
eucalypt is possibly the most
neglected of our native trees.
It has been cleared from mil-
lions of acres and mined for
its “roots,” which make excel-
lent fuel, but it has rarely been
developed for shade, shelter
and beauty.
Even on farms in the
Mallee, owners have preferred
the leggy sugar-gums as
shelter-trees. But now, thanks
to keen nurserymen such as
W. Wood of Warracknabeal
(Vic.), the mallee-eucalypt is
getting more attention. Its
advantages include bushiness
—in contrast to some of the
taller, introduced eucalypts—
and the fact that it is acclima-
tised to the dry conditions and
light, limey soils of the
northern country.
Most mallees are compara-
tively easy to raise from seed.
Some get a bit "straggly with
age, but they respond to prun-
ing and shaping when young.
As a shade tree by itself, the
bull-mallee ( E. Behriana ) takes
a lot of beating. Other good
mallees for shade and shelter
include the oil-mallee ( E.
oleosa ) and the green mallee
( E. viridis).
Good Fallows
“Nilma”: Although fair
wheat-crops have been grown
in the recent good years on
land which has been fallowed
later, and more roughly,. than
in the past, there’s no doubt
that the really well-cultivated
fallow still pays good dividends.
This is most obvious during
a dry spring, when crops on
good fallows withstand the
critical period much better than
those on poorly worked land ;
but it acts in other ways, too.
For instance, the Victorian
Department of Agriculture
experiments at Walpeup have
shown greatest infection by
root-rots in plots which have
not been fallowed ; lighter
attacks in plots which have
been fallowed late and those
which have been sheeped
instead of worked ; and little
damage in well-cultivated
fallows.
In addition, there are the
traditional advantages of good
fallows: better weed-control,
storage of moisture and plant-
foods, and seed-bed prepara-
tion.
!
Farm Hints
“Billjim”: To control gully-
erosion, plant willow- or
poplar-poles in pairs, about a
chain apart, along all water-
channels, including those higher
up which carry water only after
heavy rain. The poles should
be Bft. to 10ft. long, 3in. to 4m.
in diameter, and from vigorous
ttees. Regrowths from previous
loppings are ideal. Plant firmly,
2ft. to 3rt. deep, and at least
lft. above flood-level on each
side of the watercourse ; protect
from possums and stock if
necessary. If a start is made
along the deep courses, and the
planter works upwards, suit-
able planting-material will
become available for further
plantings in the smaller water-
courses as time goes by.
“J.”: Watch out for drib-
bling cows in the herd.
Examine the mouth by holding
the tongue half-out and keep-
ing the mouth open with a
block of wood. Sometimes a
thorn, or a piece of wood or tin
stuck between the teeth or
embedded in the cheek, is caus-
ing the trouble; mouldy hay
also sometimes produces this
state. In any case, the cure
is easy—unless, as sometimes
happens, the slobbering is part
of the symptoms of foot-and-
mouth disease.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
The week brought farewell to Sir John
Northcott at Government House and
welcome to the new Governor, Lieut.-
General E. W. Woodward. It was also
welcome to Mr. Joern Utzon, designer
of the much-debated Opera House, and
his partner Mr. Erik Andersson. They
brought with them a model of the build-
ing, which will be on display in the
vestibule of the Town Hall on Wednes-
day next, when the public appeal is
opened by the Lord Mayor. It is nice
to note, by the way, that one of the
first contributions to the appeal has come
from a Melbourne resident —more than
usually this is “not so much the gift that
counts as the thought behind it.”
There were two gay champagne-parties
during the week. The first, at Usher’s
Hotel, was to celebrate the one-year’s
run of the Phillip-street Theatre’s
“Around the Loop.” This is the longest
run that any revue has had in Sydney.
You could have seen a variety of our
city’s press, theatre, .radio and TV faces
there and heard a variety of accents,
from host Bill Orr’s undeniable Scotch,
through Hugh Hunt’s respectable English,
the soft inflection of Emrys Jones (of
“Double Image”), Queenie Ashton’s
well-known tones and a number of Aus-
tralian accents covering the whole range
from plum-in-the-mouth to the Summer-
of-the-Seventeenth-Doll.
The second champagne-party was given
by Mrs. Max Murray to celebrate the
publication of her 150th novel. (Her
publishers, Collins, told her it was her
150th ; she had lost count.) Mrs. Murray
writes under the names of Jennifer Ames
and Maysie Grieg, and the latest book is
called, rather inappropriately, Girl
Without Money. About 80 guests milled
in and out of her Vaucluse home on
Friday night all bent on congratulation,
and her son Robert, who is at school at
Rose Bay, wrote a poem in French for
the occasion.
# # V
Most spectacular ball of the week was
the International, which drew nearly 1000
dancers to the Trocadero. The president,
Mrs. C. M. Guiney, in a grey chiffon dress
of classical lines, with Dr. Guiney
received the guests-of-honor, Sir William
and Lady McKell. The honorary
organiser, Mrs. Florence Broadhurst
(wearing a glittering black sequinned
sheath), compered the pageant, which
featured the national costumes of the
nations of the world.
The pageant sped by a little too rapidly
for the beauty of the costumes to be
fully appreciated, but as the Japanese
kimonos, the Korean brocades, the
Indian saris, etc., flashed in and out
among the dancers later they made the
ball very colorful. Outstanding in interest
were the new Australian national
costumes, a picture-hat with a wattle-
embroidered short dress for the girl and,
for the man, moleskin pants, elastic-side
boots and rolled-up shirt-sleeves. Also
adding to the vividness of the ball were
the brilliantly-decorated tables, which had
been organised by Mrs. R. Lay.
A promising newcomer to Sydney’s
repertory stage is Marlene H or sell, of
Croydon. Although she has been seen
in only one important role, that of Emily
in the Genesians' current production of
“Our Town,” she has been war[?]ly
received, and her future performances will
be looked for. A stenographer in the city,
she devotes most of her spare time to
teaching elocution. Photo by Sltalian
Studios.
At “Duelling Without Tears,” in which
students Of fencing showed types of hand-
to-hand combat from the Stone Age to
the Olympic Games (1956), there was a
good deal of knockabout both on-stage,
off-stage and in the gallery, so the
polished effect was a little marred. But
the sketches were amusing and the com-
mentary (which was 1066 and All That,
and Then Some) was witty. Martin
Corbett was the professor, Owen Wein-
gott and Joan Beck produced the color-
fully-dressed show, and Miss A. Lampard
provided a dramatic interlude as Joan of
Arc.
* ☆ ☆
Skipping between Sydney and Mel-
bourne at the moment is an interesting
visitor from the U.S., Miss Faith Water-
man, who with her mother, Mrs. Arthur
J. Waterman, has come to Australia —
her first visit —specially to see Miss
Karen Denise Waterman, of Darling
Point, just four months old and their
niece and granddaughter respectively.
Faith has the interesting job of doing
critical research-work with authors, and
has worked with Dorothy Thompson,
Anita Daniel, Vincent Sheehan, Margaret
Truman and (briefly) Mary Pickford.
She is at present engaged on research for
author Agatha Young on the women's
organisations in America during the Civil
War. Enthusiastic about most things
Australian (her brother has settled here
with his family), she has one ’very
pertinent criticism to make: that we
seem to have a mania for cutting-down
trees!
☆ ☆ ☆
The engagement of the week was that
of popular Marcia Moses, of Woollahra,
to Phillip Gibson, of Kalonga, Keith
(S.A.). Marcia, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
R. Moses, of Woollahra, is wearing an
unusual diamond-and-pearl ring.
* tt ☆
Legacy’s president, Mr. Justice le Gay
Brereton. welcomed nearly 1300 of
Legacy’s helpers to an afternoon-tea and
musicale during the week, and Rear-
Admiral W. H. Harrington was the guest-
speaker. It was interesting to note that
the Admiral, at the close of his talk on
Chinese ways and customs, suggested
that our children, who never learn Asiatic
history, should be taught something of
what the Asiatics do and think ; for later
in the week Sir Richard Boyer, speaking
at a luncheon at the Royal Empire
Society, stressed the importance of our
learning to understand the way the people
of the East think, and especially to learn
more about their religions.
Miss Lorraine Kloppman held her
audience enthralled at the Garden Club’s
luncheon during the week, for, although
her subject, “The Flowers at the Queen's
Coronation,” might seem to have been
exhausted by this time, she had much to
tell that was fascinating. As head of
Constance Spry’s decorating department
at the time, she knew every little detail
about it, and it was amusing, and rather
homely, to hear how Raphael tapestries
were borrowed “to cover up the shabbiest
spots in Westminster Hall,” and how
the cloth-of-gold tablecloth was plain
white nylon painted (quite a hint this,
for gala occasions). Miss Kloppman has
returned to Australia to stay and will
open a business in Albury.
* ☆
At the Elizabethan Ball committee-
meeting during the week it was welcome-
home to president Mrs. Dekyvere, who
has been basking in sunshine at Surfers’
Paradise, and to Mrs. Armstrong, who
has just returned from Tahiti, while fare-
wells were said to Mrs. lan Jacoby (about
to take-off for a visit to America) and
Mrs. Mueller (who is returning to
Germany with her husband).


MELBOURNE
Lieut.-Governor Sir Edmund Herring
and Lady Herring were in the first-night
audience at the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust’s production of “Hamlet” at the
Comedy. Lady Herring chose a slim,
graceful gown of black velvet, the bodice
highlighted with a shawl-collar of rose-
point lace. They were welcomed by Sir
John Latham (president of the Trust),
and Lady Latham, whose short frock of
cinnamon-toned Chantilly-lace featured
a finely-pleated skirt. The Trust’s Vic-
torian representative, Mr. Aubrey Gibson,
was with his wife, who contrasted her
emerald-green satin gown with scarlet
satin shoes. The Lady Mayoress (Lady
Selleck) wore a mist-grey silk-organza
gown, the bodice of which was heavily
beaded. Others in the audience included
Sir Robert and Lady Knox, Sir George
and Lady Knox, Vice-Admiral Sir Roy
Dowling and Lady Dowling, and Sir
Arthur and Lady Warner.
☆ ☆ ☆
Over 700 attended at the St. Kilda
Palais when the R.A.A.F. Headquarters
officers’ mess held their annual ball. The
guests were received by the mess-
president, Group-Captain D. W. King-
well, and Mrs. Kingwell, whose gown
was of white Swiss-organdie embroidered
in lemon and grey. A large gilt eagle
and crown were superimposed on the
mirrors in the foyer, and in the ballroom
the squadron- and unit-insignia hung
from the pillars.
The official guests included Air
Minister F. M. Osborne and Mrs.
Osborne : Chief of Air Staff Air-Marshal
F. R. W. Scherger and his wife (she wear-
ing a brilliant-red silk-organza gown and
matching stole); Lieut.-General Sir
Henry Wells and Lady Wells ; Air-
Marshal Sir John McCauley and Lady
McCauley (her deep-green satin gown
highlighted with matching velvet on the
deep neckline and the long torso bodice) ;
Air-Vice-Marshal Daley and Mrs. Daley
(she wearing pastel-pink satin-brocade,
with the pattern outlined in gold beads) ;
Sir Lawrence and Lady Wackett (her
choice a sweeping satin gown in forest-
green tonings with mauve taffeta form-
ing the shoulder-straps and extending
into a huge bustle-bow at the back) ;
and Air-Marshal Sir Richard Williams
and Lady Williams.
Among the dancers were U.S.
Assistant Air Attache Major L. Donnelly
and his wife ; Mr. and Mrs. Earl Daum ;
Squadron-Leader Ray Ellerton and his
wife (she attractive in a gown of pale-
silver lace over orchid-pink satin); Mr.
and Mrs. Walter Lindrum (her graceful
gown being of aqua-blue satin) ; and Mr.
and Mrs. Dudley Gordon (her choice a
slim gown of dove-grey chiffon, with
the shoulder-straps and bodice trimmed
with clusters of grey beads and mounted
on pale-pink chiffon).
* ☆ *
Mr. and Mrs. Garnet Carroll (she
wearing a short white silver-beaded faille
frock and a mutation-mink stole) received
a large official party at the premiere of
“The Diary of Anne Frank” at the
Princess Theatre. The party included
Minister for Forests Gordon McArthur
(representing the Premier) and Mrs.
McArthur; Lord Mayor Sir Frank
Selleck and Lady Selleck; the Arch-
bishop-Administrator (Dr. J. J. Booth)
and Mrs. Booth ; the Rev. Dr. Watson
(representing the Moderator of the
Presbyterian Church) and Mrs. Watson ;
West German Vice-Consul Dr. M. Jovy
and Mrs. Jovy ; French Consul M. Le
Bas de Plumetot and his wife (her tiny
black ostrich-feather-trimmed theatre-
hat was outstanding) ; and Austrian
Consul A. Berger, his wife and son
Peter.
In the audience were Sir Lewis Casson,
his son John and granddaughter Penny ;
the James McGaurans; Dr. and Mrs.
Ken Hadley; Mrs. Norman Watt
(wearing a full-length mink coat over a
black gown) ; Mrs. John Heath;
Patricia Heath and her fiance, Graeme
Law ; Mr. and Mrs. George Laurens (she
wearing a lovely rose-pink beaded jacket
with a black velvet skirt) and their
daughter Diana ; Mrs. Keith Fairlie and
her daughter Carolyn ; Cr. and Mrs. Leo
Curtis; Captain and Mrs. Charles
Burge ; and Group-Capt. and Mrs. R. P.
Beare.
Diana, elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
George Laurens, of Toorak, is a member
of the Wool Ball committee. Educated
at St. Catherine’s, she is now in first-year
Law at the University. Diana, who is
tall and blonde and has a graceful figure,
is a member of the All Australia
University tennis-team.
The Robin Hood committee for the
Helping Hand Association for Mentally
Retarded Children invites entries for its
second art-competition. There are prizes
of £5O each for the best oil-painting and
the best watercolor. The best 100
entries will be hung in the gallery of the
A.N.Z. Bank, Queen’s Walk branch, for
public viewing from September 27 to
October 9, between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m.;
they may be purchased. The best 10 will
also be hung in the foyer of the Royale
Ballroom at the Bohemian Ball on
October 4. For entry-forms and con-
ditions of entry apply to the president of
the Robin Hood committee, Mrs. James
Alston, 25 Coolullah Avenue, South
Yarra.
* ☆ ☆
The Wool Ball, a great success, drew
1100 to the Royale Ballroom ; proceeds
go to the Ramsay Mailer Opportunity
Club for Boys and Girls. Miniature
wool-bales stamped with the names of
well-known properties were set on the
tables. Behind the official table was a
life-sized stuffed sheep, while the table
was flanked with two gold papier-machd
sheep’s heads. Colorful posters lent by
the Wool Bureau, and amusing ones
drawn by Margaret Harry, were on the
walls. Committee - president Jane
Hennessey, who wore a graceful gown
of Ming-blue satin with a fichu neckline
extending to a long floating back-panel,
received the guests with vice-presidents
Mrs. John Barrett and Patricia Mildred
and secretary Marigold Baker.
Among those at the dance were
Margaret Atkinson, wearing a long gown
of scarlet silk-organza ; Gail Challings-
worth, whose choice was black Chantilly-
lace; Elizabeth Trumble, in a bouffant
frock of white tulle ; Diana Laurens, her
frock made from a lime-green sari beauti-
fully embroidered in gold and colored
stones; Wendy Pisterman, who wore
guipure-lace; Penney Lane, her short
frock of honev-toned faille having a
swathing of white faille just above the
hem of the full skirt; and Jenny Strat-
man, whose short white nylon frock was
embroidered with silver coin-spots.
☆ ☆ ☆
News has come from U.S. Consul-
General Gerald Warner that Mr. Henry
E. Stebbins, who with his wife Barbara
made a host of friends when he was
Consul-General in Melbourne, has been
promoted to Career Minister in the U.S.
State Department. At present he is on
detail in West Germany as Foreign
Service Inspector.
CANBERRA
Senator Agnes Robertson, of Perth,
flew into Canberra for a two-day visit
last week. The 70-odd-years-young
Senator celebrated her birthday here
and was entertained at luncheon by the
American Ambassador and Mrs. Sebald
at the Embassy. The object of her visit
was to attend a meeting of the Parliamen-
tary Foreign Affairs committee, of which
she is a member.
☆ ☆ ☆
Victoria’s model-of-the-year, Marion
Leidloff, who plans to leave Australia
shortly for a tour of America, will be
one of the models at a Spring Preview of
Fashion arranged by the Business and
Professional Women’s Club of Canberra
at Lawley House on August 17. Diana
Gregory, who has just taken up a public-
relations job with Rothman's, Sydney,
will be compere. Fashions shown will
come from the Sylvia Parsons salon, hats
from “Helene R,” and jewellery by Beth
Chandler.


the situation, but in reality
quite lost.
_lt invariably ended with an
assurance from Sung that the
craft was friendly and its crew
innocent South Koreans an
assurance I now rather doubt,
in view of the hostile junks all
the other blockading ships
seemed to be finding, and the
realisation in later months that
many of them had been
engaged in minelaying.
We had a brief few days,
after a couple of months of
the war, in a pleasant Japanese
port farther from the scene of
things than Sasebo, our usual
base. While there we, needless
to say, had as gay a time as
possible ashore. Most of us
made a point of taking Sung
along' with us, since otherwise
be would have felt very much
out of things. He was patheti-
cally grateful for these runs
ashore, and I particularly
remember him one morning
after a riotous party.
We had taken him with us
to an Army mess, where he
had finished-up by giving a few
of his national songs, which
no doubt were of anything but
the drawing-room variety. Next
day the combination of a hang-
over and perplexed gratitude
to us for bothering to look
after him were too much for
his Oriental calm, and he began
in his lisping English to make
a speech of thanks, coupled
with the presentation of a large
bunch of flowers to the ward-
room. Heaven knows where
he got them, but we suspected
they were from the Army mess
of the previous evening.
Pilot as usual made Sung his
own responsibility, and more
than ever did he become the
faithful puppy. He seemed to
be losing much of his shyness,
but there was a troubled look
on his face which I sometimes
saw, and which I was unable
to understand until much later.
A FTER our rest in that
pleasant port we settled
down to some more solid war-
fare, and it quickly became
obvious that a big counter-
attack was brewing.
The Army was holding on
all fronts now, and the Navy
was being built up by ships
from all over the world. The
American, British', Australian,
Canadian, New Zealand,
Dutch and French Navies all
had their representatives,
and more were on their way.
We soon heard the details of
the intended thrust—indeed, it
was common knowledge in the
Japanese cabarets that Inchon
was to be the target for a
large-scale amphibious assault.
We, however, had a different
task. With two other destroyers
and some South Korean patrol-
craft, we were to carry out a
separate landing—a feint, I
suppose one could call it —just
before the big landing, with
the idea of confusing the
Communists about our real
intentions. Two or three of
these feints were planned, at
widely scattered points, and
our little affair was to be
aimed at a place called Yong-
hang.
We knew the area well, and
realised at once that it would
be no easy job to carry
through. There were several
miles of shallow, island-
studded water in the approaches
to Yonghang, and then just
before one reached the harbor-
proper there was a narrow
isthmus jutting out from the
mainland. The channel made
it imperative for us to pass
within half-a-mile of this
headland, which was bound to
mount several gun-batteries.
We expected to be able, with
our combined gunfire, to deal
effectively with this trouble, but
there was another big worry
—mines. Without a doubt
there were plenty there, and
unless we could find some way
of dealing with them the out-
come of the operation would
not look very bright.
We went ahead with our
plans. For a week we studied
and rehearsed all the finer
points of the operation, and
exercised and drilled our ship’s
company till they were at
concert-pitch. The landing was
to be carried out by a combined
force of Korean Marines,
Royal Marines, and U.S.
Marines, with some of our
sailors driving and manning the
landing-craft. Like the main
Inchon landing, the touchdown
would be in daylight, at high-
tide, but the plans differed in
that we would not have a low-
water earlier the same day
during which we could mine-
spot. Somehow we had just to
find our way in, and that still
seemed the hardest part of the
whole game.
Then, the day before the
landing, we got our lucky
break. A helicopter arrived out
of the sky and lowered down
to us some last-minute orders
and intelligence, among which
was a comprehensive descrip-
tion of the minefields off Yong-
hang harbor. This document,
a brief covering note told us,
had been captured from the
Communists only that morning
and was being sent straight to
us, still untranslated, to save
time —our Korean interpreter
could, of course, translate it
for us. It looked as if it would
solve most of our problems,
and we quickly searched out
Sung and set him to work on it.
The mines, it appeared when
he came up with his translation,
were laid in a very simple
manner. Just three big groups:
the first on the port-hand of
the channel as we entered, but
extending well past the centre-
point ; the second on the star-
board-side, and the third on the
port-side again. So that all we
had to do was hug the star-
board sandbanks, zig over to
port at the right moment, zag
back to starboard, and there
we were, inside the harbor!
/ r '\UR D-Day turned out to
be dull and overcast,
with intermittent rain but
fortunately hardly a breath of
wind.
Ten a.m. was the time for
the first touchdown, so by
seven we had breakfasted,
cleared for action, and were
nearing the outer islands of the
approach-channel. We were
leading the other destroyers in,
with the South Korean craft
and the landing-craft, packed
now with the combined Marine
Force, a respectful mile or so
astern of us.
The first opposition came
just after eight, when two
Storm a v i k attack-aircraft
appeared suddenly out of the
clouds on our starboard-bow
and came in at us in what
appeared to be their version of
a glide-bombing attack. Our
starboard Bofors were on to
them even before the bridge
could give the alarm, and it
was probably those early
bursts of chattering, red-streak-
ing fire that saved us.
Although they were wide of the
aircraft at first, they obviously
rattled the pilots, and the leap-
ing columns of water that rose
a few seconds later were well
clear to port and did not even
wet the upper deck.
An accurate stream of fire
from the pom-pom as the first
aircraft passed overhead was
rewarded with a scatter of
fragments, like feathers from
a duck, and then a gradually
growing rope of black smoke
trailed the red-starred bomber
to its end among the shallows
a mile to port. The second
aircraft made off into the
clouds and was not seen again.
The sheathed and untried
fangs of Marelchi Point now
lay ahead of us. This was the
headland that controlled the
final approach to Yonghang,
beyond which lay the mine-
fields. All eyes and every gun
roamed its slopes as we crept
in, the three ships disposed
in quarter-line so that all guns
could bear. Five miles ; four-
and-a-half ; four, and still no
sparkle of enemy fire.
At three-and-a-half miles, for
good measure, we laid down
five quick broadsides along the
summit of the headland, then
held our fire until we had a
definite target. Three miles;
two-and-a-half ; two point-
blank range, and still no sign
of enemy batteries. Could it
be that there were none?
Perhaps the bombing the Super-
forts gave it yesterday had
silenced all opposition.
Eighteen-hundred yards, fifteen,
and we opened up again with
everything we had main-
armament, pom-pom. Bofors,
spraying the hillsides and
summit and drenching the
beaches.
And this time they rose to
the bait. A flickering line of
red sparks on that crest, a
couple more on the point, and
then sudden whispering noises
all round us in the stillness
between our broadsides and a
line of brown-lined splashes a
cable’s length beyond us. Again
the red flashes, mingling with
the exploding shells from three
destroyers’ main batteries, and
this time they had the range.
The ship shook slightly, then
shuddered under her own guns’
salvos, as if to show how little
the enemy’s shots meant to her.
All was noise now ; the relent-
less, controlled clang of fire-
gong, roar of broadside of our
big guns, the chatter-chatter
and bop-bop-bop of the close-
range armament, and the hiss,
clatter, crump of the enemy
shells. A lonely ping or two,
sounding presumptuous among
the general cacophony, pro-
claimed that snipers ashore
were joining in the fight, so
close were we. A hit on our
forecastle ; a battery obliterated
ashore ; another hit on our
waterline aft; a whole
mountainside, or so it seemed,
thrown skyward on the bluff.
Gradually the enemy guns
were silenced, and the flotilla’s
guns could pick and choose
their targets.
' Again that whisper of
approaching shells, a sudden
blinding shake, clouds of
smoke, blinding, choking,
drifting. Drifting away, reveal-
ing the bridge a shambles of
twisted metal, smoking paint-
work, and writhing forms. The
captain still on his feet, speak-
ing quietly down the voice-pipe
{Continued on next page )


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
to the wheelhouse: a messenger
standing waiting, with scared
eyes and bleeding arm, with
nothing to do but wait for the
next hit or the next message to
run. *
And on the deck beside him
a still body, twisted and bent.
Pilot, the cheerful and youthful,
had laughed for the last time.
A smothered cry from Sung,
and he was on his knees beside
the still body, his face twisted
cruelly with repressed emotion.
The captain swung the ship
hard-a-starboard, to enter the
mine-bordered channel.
CUNG was on his feet, listen-
ing, looking, agonised
indecision in his eyes. He leapt
to the captain’s side, jabbered
and pointed. The captain
waved him back, then stopped;
listened intently.
“Midships, hard-a-port! ”
came the cool order, and the
ship paused, heeled, and headed
for the port-bank. “Starboard
twenty!” and again she swung.
The captain looked intently and
nodded his head as if to him-
self, and turned again to his
task, conning the ship in safely
through the minefields, leading
the way for the others close
behind, but in precisely the
opposite way to the course
he had planned. They followed
unquestioningly past the silent,
broken slopes of Marelchi
Point, and behind them came
the assault-craft.
Only four of us knew the way
through the mines, the way
described to us by Sung. One
of us is dead. Tine captain, I
think, understands it all now,
and will never speak of it.
Sung will not.
As for myself, I think I had
begun to suspect some time
before that Sung was a Com-
munist, planted in the South
Korean Navy to sabotage our
efforts —until, you see, some-
thing changed his mind.
Need for Rural Universities
By H. A. LINDSAY
SEVERAL Australian uni-
versities are growing
beyond the ideal size, and
in any case are short of
land for expansion on their
present sites. The upper limit
for efficiency in a seat of higher
education is reached when the
roll of students is around the
10,000-mark; the cost per
student is excessive with an
attendance of less than a
thousand.
The problems of overcrowd-
ing and of classes which have
grown to an unwieldy size can
be solved only by creating new
universities. These should be
rural ones.
The experience of other
countries, particularly the
U.S.A., shows that such rural
universities have some out-
standing advantages. There is
less tendency to neglect the
liberal arts, fewer distractions
for students, more opportunities
for research.
A rural university, too, is of
great benefit to the town and
district where it is established.
Local people become interested
in its activities, and in return
it acts as an adult-education
centre for the surrounding area.
A fine example of the bene-
fits conferred when a university
is established anywhere is pro-
vided by Canberra. The whole
atmosphere of the place has
changed for the better since
the establishment there of two
separate institutions, the
National University and
Canberra University College.
HN actual rural universities,
N.S.W. has the University
of New England, which, begun
in a small way as a college, has
made steady, if somewhat slow,
progress.
A start on founding a second
rural university was made five
years ago, when 72 shire
councils in N.S.W. and
Victoria, together with the
Murray Valley Development
League, sent delegates to a
meeting at Narrandera
(N.S.W.).
A Riverine Councils’ Univer-
sity League was formed, with
Dr. A. W. Merrylees, of Carra-
thool, as president—its basic
aim the establishment of a
rural university on a site in
northern Victoria or southern
N.S.W.
To facilitate research into
agricultural and pastoral prob-
lems, it was considered advis-
able to build this proposed
rural university on a property
of at least 10,000 acres, in a
locality where work under
natural conditions of rainfall
and climate could be studied,
as well as under irrigation. It
is visualised as a parent body
which would set the examina-
tions and confer the degrees.
In other areas colleges would
be set up, working under the
direction of the headquarters
and placed where there were
good opportunities for prac-
tical work in mining, geology,
botany, zoology, , forestry,
hydraulic - engineering, soil-
chemistry and specialised
forms of primary production.
The Riverine Councils’ Uni-
versity League forwarded to the
Prime Minister a 60-page docu-
ment setting out particulars of
the scheme. In reply, it was
informed that the Common-
wealth Government was “not
prepared to take the initiative”
in the matter, but support was
promised when a practical
beginning had been made. Since
then Dr. Merrylees and his
colleagues have been engaged
in raising the necessary funds.
THERE are at least two other
areas in Australia which
need universities and can offer
outstanding advantages. .
The first is North Queens-
land, with Cairns as the obvious
site. The coastal strip there
provides all the typical low-
land tropical conditions for
agricultural studies.
Within a few miles, and
rising to elevations of over
3000 ft., lies the Atherton Table-
land, providing conditions
suitable for studies in tropical
highland agriculture and
forestry. Within distances
ranging from 20 to 450 miles
lie some of Australia’s most
valuable mineral deposits.
Cairns also offers unrivalled
opportunities for the study of
tropical medicine. During the
last war the Army establish-
ment there made most valuable
discoveries in the prevention
and treatment of tropical
diseases.
The other site with many
advantages is the south-east of
South Australia, an area where
primary production has already
reached high figures, and where
potentialities have no foresee-
able limits. By raising
soil-fertility with superphos-
phate, trace-elements and the
growing of clovers, combined
with inexhaustible underground
water at a depth of a few feet
for irrigation, it can become
another Holland or Denmark.
It also has our most efficient
forestry enterprise.
JUST what can be done in
the way of establishing new
institutions of this kind is pro-
vided by the Waite Institute,
an independent branch of the
University of Adelaide.
It began in 1924 when Peter
Waite donated 300 acres of
grazing-land, a fine homestead
and a financial endowment of
£58,450. Since then there have
been many other handsome
donations or bequests, notably
from members of the Mortlock,
Darling and Melrose families.
Today the Waite Institute
is one of the world’s leading
agricultural-research establish-
ments ; there is really no yard-
stick by which jts great value
can be measured. Its dis-
coveries concerning the part
played by trace-elements in
soil-fertility are among the
most important contributions
to science the world has known.
Any new universities estab-
lished in Australia must have
their own Faculty of Arts, with-
out which a seat of learning
is liable to be little more than
a glorified technical school.
Three things are necessary
before a new university can
come into being. The first is
a body of public-spirited local
people who will work to that
end, refusing to be dis-
heartened by the many diffi-
culties, a surprising number of
which are man-made.
A clear-cut ruling has to be
obtained from the Federal
Treasurer, and published, set-
ting out in simple language
how benefactors can receive
income-tax exemptions on all
gifts towards the establishment
and endowment of the univer-
sity.
Finally, and most important
of all, there must be wealthy
people of the type of Peter
Waite, who, realising that you
can’t take it with you, are
willing to put up the money,
conferring a great blessing on
posterity, and also ensuring
that their names will long be
honored.


there were other scientists and pas-
sengers to be considered; and her real
passion in life, since first she burst
through the nettles, was to march and
be bitten alone.
So she starved in London for a while,
occasionally eating a potato, joined the
staff of the British Museum of Natural
History, and set off in solitary splendor
for the New Hebrides. She got on well
with the natives by believing all their
ghost-stories instead of trying to correct
them; and, if she reasoned a little with
Chief Ringapat over his slaughter of a
German and slaughter and eating of
three of her native acquaintances, she
reasoned reasonably and saw his point-
of-view: they were all bad hats one
way or another, and people had to be
eaten so that their ghosts wouldn’t
come back and haunt you. Apparently
you ate the ghost.
She saw a miniature Stonehenge in
the New Hebridean mountains— a relic,
maybe, of Thor Heyerdahl’s stone-
shaping redheads from Peru. She tact-
fully persuaded Ringapat not to send
a broken alarm-clock (his chief
treasure) as a present to King George,
but a native spear instead. She ate
flying-foxes, had wild pigs burrowing
under her bed, started a bushfire
and, looking into the volcano, got
bombarded all the way home again:—•
It is difficult to run fast down
a slope of scoria-rocks like cinders
giving at every step ; the roar came
after a short interval but I was able
to induce Karkil to stand calmly and
watch the rocks, thus dodging those
likely to fall near. It was the only
reasonable course and I was able
to make Karkil see it. His exalted
look when we circumvented the
biggest boulders by simply estimat-
ing where they would fall was
amusing. It kept us very alert to
dodge and run. Twice on that race
down the slope we had to stand and
outmanoeuvre the falling rocks.
Cheered by this exhilarating
experience, which was further enlivened
by bouts of malaria ancP bronchial
asthma, Miss Cheesman, after the
briefest possible return to London,
dashed off to New Guinea to stroll
over the Kokoda Trail and catch moths
in the Owen Stanleys. This is where
we met her before, but if one seems to
remember that the encounter with Jack
Hides was in the other book, and also
the giant squid which occupied prac-
tically the whole of Fak-Fak Bay (for
some odd reason Miss Cheesman didn’t
collect it; and it didn’t bite her), there
is plenty of new stuff in her next trips,
after World War 11, aged about 70, to
New Caledonia, Lifu and the Loyalty
Islands. The chief who was feeding-up
his dog in the hope that it would grow
into a horse is particularly pleasing;
and so—if Miss Cheesman probably
found her greatest pleasure in being
blown around Doz Bay by the cyclone;
or, on yet another trip, being bitten to
death by Simuleum flies on Aneityum
(“Only those who have experienced
this pest can possibly imagine the con-
tinuous acute discomfort”)—is what
must be this review’s final glimpse of
the author . . . climbing among the
branches of a live fallen tree with a
bushknife and a knapsack, escorted by
willy-wagtails;—-
A family of these haunted the
clearing and were never afraid of
me ; but when I scrambled among
the branches they were settling on
my arms and a few inches from my
face, twittering to one another con-
versationally. Perhaps they thought
I was learning to fly.
It is an excellent and a fascinating
book; and these arduous peregrina-
tions, held together in any case by the
author’s modest and invigorating per-
sonality, have an unexpected unity,
for they are all, in the end, part of one
great scheme to investigate the origin
of Pacific flora and fauna, once thought
to have migrated principally from Aus-
tralia but now, if one has read Miss
Cheesman rightly, chiefly to be traced
to a sunken continent which long ago
connected New Guinea with Asia and
which still exists in “a series of broken
mountain-chains on the northern coast
of the Netherlands Territory of New
Guinea, consisting of very ancient rock,
pre-Cambrian, some of which had
never been submerged.” Miss Chees-
man, of course, has fallen off these
rocks.
Stevenson in Brisbane
Nobody who saw the lavish de-luxe
edition of “Robinson Crusoe”
illustrated by the Queensland artist
William Bustard, published a few years
ago in Brisbane by Jackson and
O’Sullivan, would have any fears about
its successor, Stevenson’s Treasure
Island, now illustrated by the same
artist and published by the same firm.
With its sumptuous color-plates and
large format “Robinson Crusoe” was
really a remarkable venture in Aus-
tralian publishing ; and the new book
in every way comes up to expectations.
If there are a few points one could
criticise, regarding it as a fine-art
publication—the dropping into small
type halfway through the introduc-
tion; the double-column typography;
the submerging of the black-and-white
illustrations in the text; the unneces-
sarily large format—it is still a
wonderful production for children, and
the richness of the color-plates is a
considerable compensation for all
minor blemishes.
A book, however it is illustrated, is
still a book ; and it would be a pity to
be so dazzled by Bustard’s pirates and
parrots and palmtrees as to forget
Stevenson.
The books that enchanted our youth
don’t always last so well; that is, under
critical examination. Doubtless they
still suffice for the young. “The Swiss
Family Robinson,” for instance, even
in my youth struck me as too pious
and too cruel, if not too impossible. I
never could bear the father’s incessant
sermons nor the scene where Ernest
hit the poor dog such a whack that he
bent his gun-barrel double. But I
loved the tree-house, the wonderful
array of animals and, particularly,
for some odd reason, the scene where
they tamed the wild ass by biting its
ear. Now the book seems altogether
outrageous.
It is far too flagrant a steal from
“Robinson Crusoe.” The father is
a prig and a bore beyond belief, the
heavy Victorian Papa made heavier
than ever by a nasty Germanic streak
of gluttony and arrogance. The
discoveries of wild animals, all lifted
from encyclopaedias without any regard
for the probabilities of geography —
they even find kangaroos!—become
ludicrous.
Even “Coral Island,” though the
underwater cave remains for ever
delightful —I suppose Ballantyne took
it from “Mariner’s Account,” the
authentic Tongan story which has
also been useful to the poets Byron
and Robert D. FitzGerald —is not
quite what it used to be. It, too,
borrows too much from “Robinson
Crusoe”; and Ralph and Jack and
Peterkin don’t stay nearly long enough
on their island. When the hero goes off
to wander around the South Seas the
book, except for a couple of scenes
with the cannibals, is finished.
But “Treasure Island,” like
“Crusoe,” stays as firm as ever: and,
though I wouldn’t put it in the same
class as “Crusoe” for solidity of
narrative and invention, it remains,
like “Crusoe,” “Alice” and, in Aus-
tralia, “The Magic Pudding,” one of
those basic children’s classics which
once and for all cover a certain field
so that nobody else can enter it without
imitation. You can’t write a book
about living on a desert island without
following Defoe; you can’t do a
pirate-story or a treasure-story without
following Stevenson —and every year,
without improving on him, without
equalling him, dozens of writers do
follow him.
True, there are times when, looking
upon his book with as cool a critical
eye as so great a stylist deserves,
Stevenson has some surprising lapses.
I am never quite sure that Long
John Silver really comes off as a
character —sometimes he seems meant


THE SHORT REIGN OF PIPPIN IV
JOHN STEINBECK
BOOK SOCIETY CHOICE
John Steinbeck’s new book is a delightful extravaganza
about French politics and various other matters.
At ali booksellers - - - 15/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
A new book from one of the world’s foremost novelists
WITHOUT LOVE
Gerald Hanley
A powerful theme which tells of the attempts of a man. an Irish intellectual who in his
youth tangled with Nazism and later turned to Communism, to finally come to grips with
life. A Sydney reviewer says “There are not many writers about of the calibre of Gerald
Hanley. He has an efficient tautness of style, a great intelligence, wide and obvio'usly
profound knowledge. Everything he writes is worthwhile.’’
Ready
Now
COLLINS —PUBLISHERS
From all
Booksellers
THE HIDDEN ENEMY „ j
By V. H. Lloyd
In .the early days of the Japanese invasion John Grant was sent with his infantry company to
rescue a group of women at a mission in New Guinea. At the mission he found two people
who brought back again the dormant bitterness of his past life and whose presence roused
Grant’s most deadly enemy—the enemy within himself.
THE HIDDEN ENEMY is a novel of conflict, both moral and physical, of a man who is
goaded to crime and yet whose courage and endurance stand between his companions and
death; of a woman whose love was not strong enough, and a friend whose loyalty defied the
claims of law and justice, all bound together in the nerve- 17/- I’nost 7d )
racking tension and sudden violence of war in the jungle. / \tr •/
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
to be a fallen gentleman, sometimes he
seems like a valet, sometimes like a
tough, and sometimes like nothing at
all —and I really can’t see why, the
most villainous of all the pirates,
deserving of the worst fate of all. he
was allowed by Stevenson to escape in
the end to live in happy and opulent
sin with his negress. 1 suppose it was
good policy for boy-readers, who
could thereby become pirates in
imagination, sharing the lives of both
the estimable Jim Hawkins and the
disreputable Long John with no fear
of a nasty ending whichever'role they
favored ; but it was not, for Stevenson,
good art.
Ben Gunn, again, is a very vague
and wobbly old numskull. And of all
the outrageous devices and situations
which the use of the first-person method
forces upon the novelist I really don’t
think there was ever anything quite so
lamentable as Stevenson’s popping
Jim Hawkins into the apple-barrel to
overhear the pirates’ plans. We are
used to first-person heroes listening at
keyholes, peering through window's,
lurking in ditches and so on, as Jim
Hawkins constantly has to do, but
hiding in an apple-barrel is about the
limit. I don’t believe anyhow, now I
come to think of it, that pirates ever
ate barrels of apples—why didn’t
Stevenson put him in a keg of rum?
But all that, of course, doesn’t
matter. Stevenson’s superb flow of
narrative, clear, steady and serious,
overrides all bbjections.
He never introduces unnecessary
complications ; he never adopts forced
humor or a false tone of voice; never
misses a moment that can heighten the
adventure; never goes beyond the
proper limits of his story into facile or
unscrupulous terror ; never fails to set
his scene convincingly ; and obviously
exults, perhaps overdoing it a trifle,
in accurately describing the seaman-
ship. He has everything a good pirate-
story needs—from the parrot to the
marvellous map ; from the counting of
the treasure to the marooning of the
three desperadoes at the end—and he
abounds in the most vivid and memor-
able situations: the captain flapping
his hand for silence at the inn ; the
terrible blind man, old Pew ; the some-
what Crusoe-like manifestation of
Ben Gunn.
It stays very good indeed ; and if it
is slight beside “Robinson Crusoe” at
least it is not overloaded ; a simple
boy’s-book, and not pretending to be
anything more.
One advantage of its compactness
is that the present publishers have not
felt obliged to cut it—a liberty they
took with “Crusoe” —and indeed it is
hard to see where a cut could be made.
About the only thing missing from the
present edition is the little introductory
poem Stevenson wrote for it and. if
space might well have been found for
it, there is the compensation of a short
introduction on Stevenson’s life and
works. This, incidentally, could have
put more emphasis on Stevenson’s
South Seas novels and stories. Though
his South Seas letters and diaries are
not better than “Travels with a
Donkey” and the American travel-
notes—just equally captivating—it
was in Samoa that, in fiction, he found
himself. “The Master of Ballantrae”
and "Catriona,” no more than latter-
day Scott, are pale beside the vividness
of "The Ebb Tide” and “The Beach at
Falesa.”
An appropriate vividness is, as the
publishers claim, the distinguishing
quality of William Bustard’s illustra-
tions. Bustard seems from time to time
to fall down on characterisation. His
Jim is a strange and monstrous-look-
ing youth beside the firm and convinc-
ing portrait drawn by N. C. Wyeth in
the excellent Cassell edition of 1911.
Jim’s mother, a’faintly comic, Dicken-
sian character as Stevenson set her
down, so foolishly avaricious that she
will rifle the dead captain’s chest in
the face of all the -pirates, could surely
not have been the beautiful young
brunette that Bustard has painted.
His paintings have not the subtlety of
Wyeth’s oils, which, though uneven,
have at their best a tonal quality
recalling some of Norman Lindsay’s
piratical watercolors. But if you want
the skeleton that Captain Flint laid
out with the compass to point the way
to the treasure, or if you want color-
ful scoundrels and the gorgeous tropic
scenery of the plate on page 93—the
doctor in his improbable visit to heal
the wounded pirates—Bustard is the
man for you. Though he is represented
in the Queensland National Gallery we
don’t seem to hear much of him in
“serious” Australian art; but he is
certainly a magnificent illustrator.
D.S.


w 'Ss,.
m
M
m
»«■
mm
mm
m
■
-
i ■
'MV, ■
.
mm
X-/::
m
■
Jm
vm
£
-
\ ' : **
mt X> :
M
SJSS
>*V-
L
„: : :
AMAMBUIAME- Qc/fCt/
BUT IT WILL PROBABLY BE TOO LATE. It’s a long
drop down there a sudden drop into eternity.
Someone said he was careless took the bend
too wide. Really the road was to blame. The
bend, is too tight - the corner blind. This road
a proven killer, should stretch away into the
haze, straight and wide.
Australia’s outmoded road systems are studded
with hazards like this. Sudden bends, dangerous
crests, deep potholes and crumbling edges, badly
placed rail crossings they are all an unfortunate
and expensive part of your daily living. Not only
expensive in lives but in wasted time and money,
Bad roads can’t take all the blame for the
increasing toll of dead and maimed, but think
what straight, wide roads would mean in greater
safety and in quicker more economical
transport.
Every time you tell your M.P. that a National
Roads Authority to control our highways is
essential every time you talk of the need for
such an authority at meetings and among your
friends you are doing something constructive
towards making Australian roads better, safer.
CATERPILLAR
GlO4
’caterpillar and cat are
REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OF
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO., U.S.A.
When you think of
better roads, think of
the big yellow machines
that help build them.
iiiilis
36
x : ‘ >
¥£s*% '
s . fi i'• »
• •• • ' :
CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
DIESEL ENGINES . TRACTORS . MOTOR GRADERS • EARTHMOVING EQUIPMENT
