

t
wm
e
&
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
"The Sentimental Bloke”— page 2
July 10, 1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia tor transmission by post as a newspaper.
CANTERBURY'S FAMOUS “GREY FRIARS" RUINS
THE cathedral city of Canterbury, in Kent, is full of interest to
the student of history, architecture, religion, literature and
kindred subjects. From the very beginning of English history
Canterbury was a place of considerable importance. By the Saxons
it was designated Cantwars-byrig, meaning the fortress of the men
of Kent,'and it was in the Saxon era that St. Augustine entered the
city and started his teaching.
Although the glory and the chief attraction of the city is the
great cathedral, there is much else to interest the visitor. Among
them are the picturesque ruins of The Grey Friars, illustrated here.
They represent the last monument of the Grey friars or Franciscans,
once the most popular of the monastic orders. It is a little house
which occupies no ground, for it is built on arches over a branch
of the River Stour, and its slender supporting pillars rise from the
river-bed.
It was in 1224, during the lifetime of the founder of the Order,
that a small party of the Grey Friars, or Little Brethren of St.
Francis of Assisi, landed at Dover and journeyed the 15 miles to
Canterbury. They were first established at the Poor Priests’ Hospital,
but, in 1267, they were given by. Alderman John Bigge another site
over the river which crossed the marshy islet; a site now known as
the Franciscan Gardens. " ’
In later years the total holding was increased to about 18 acres
with orchards and gardens. They built there Friary Church, refectory,
chapter house, library, informary and other offices. The High Altar
in the choir was dedicated to -St. Francis. Extensive remains can
still be seen today and include parts of the old boundary walls and
the structure, built on arches spanning the river, which has been
carefully restored.
No. 357: the Homeland Series hy the House of Seppelt.


BOOKHLJsTJEB, Box 26(1, C.P.O.,. Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for vou—fiction
text book, biography, history, etc' Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE
Somebody asked me, on hearing that
Angus and Robertson’s new edition of
The Sentimental Bloke had reproduced
Hal Gye’s original illustrations, what I
really thought of the propriety of
decorating all those little larrikins with
wings so that they look like Cupids.
The inquirer was an artist, and it
might have been better for me to ask
him what he thought about them; but
my own opinion is, and always has
been, that they have such a delightful
impropriety that it would be a crime
to leave them out.
But were they not, in the original
edition, just a trifle more improper
than they are now? It cannot surely,
at this date, be prudish censorship that
has deprived them of what no Cupid
would willingly lose, I suspect (without
looking-up the first-edition, lest all
illusions be lost) that the original draw-
ings have been mislaid and these have
been reproduced by some photographic
process in which detail has been
blurred. They seem —not to be too
particular in this delicate matter—
rather to have been nipped in the bud.
But it is good to have them, even
so. They seem to belong inextricably
and inevitably to the poem itself,
almost a part of the writing, like
Dore’s illustrations to Rabelais,
Norman Lindsay’s to “The Magic
Pudding” and Tenniel’s to “Alice.”
They are sacrosanct and should never
be dropped. It is possible, and I think
very likely, that they contribute a
great deal to the total effect of the
poem.
Not that I am suggesting that Hal
Gye is a Dore, any more than I could
suggest that Dennis (whose values were
very conventional) was a Rabelais. But
the drawings have great charm and
humor; they add a note of lightness,
of fantasy, of naughtiness indeed to
the poem; and without them it would
be a lesser thing. Wherefore by all
means let Hal Gye be honored along
with Dennis when this new edition is
appraised—as, for his “Father” short-
stories, written under his other name
of James Hackston and almost as rich
an overflow from the Lawson tradi-
tion as Brian James’s, he will also be
honored in due course: when he can
be bothered to put them together in a
book.
I very much doubt—if the fantastic
drawings need to be defended—
whether Hal Gye could have got much
fun, or much charm, either, out of
illustrating “The Bloke” realistically.
Surely the burly larrikin and his diner,
and even the Stror-’at Coot, could
never have looked so amusing in literal
drawings as they do as Cupids. And
a fantastic approach to the story was,
in fact, pretty well forced on the
artist: for Dennis’s larrikin is himself
wholly a fantasy.
That was one of the things that
struck me most forcibly on rereading
the poem; how totally unreal and
unconvincing as any kind of portrait
of a larrikin Dennis’s hero is.
What kind of person would he have
been in real life? I am afraid that he
would have been just a nasty, hulking
brute.
We are told, for instance, that his
favorite amusement before he met
Doreen was “stoushin’ coppers.” He
has even done a stretch for it. Surely,
on reflection, even if policemen are
only doubtfully human, this is not a
nice thing to do. We are told that,
when he catches the Stror-’at Coot
with Doreen, he jabs his elbow in his
ribs and then, so he says, “spanks”
him: the world must be full of nice,
stror-’atted coots —many of them, no
doubt, most ardent readers of Dennis
—who would regard it as positively
outrageous to be jabbed and spanked
by hoodlums in the public streets . . .
Of course we are also told that the
Bloke, after he meets Doreen, reforms;
he develops a heart of gold and in the
last section of the poem—without any
proof that he has ever done a single
kindly action to a neighbor—sings the
praises of doing good to others. But
here he seems to me to depart
altogether into fantasy. I don’t believe
that larrikins who bash policemen have
hearts of gold at all (you ask the
policemen!): I think they have hearts
of pig-iron. I think the real larrikin
Dennis set out to portray—the cop-
stousher—would have finished up
married to a harridan in the slums,
with frequent holidays in jail; or
possibly, in New South Wales, an
honorable career in politics.
What are we to believe, then? That
the Bloke didn’t mean it when he
bashed the cops? That it was only his
fun? That larrikins do reform? And
that, despite the entire lack of evidence,
he did spend the rest of his life doing
good deeds to his neighbors? I think
we can only believe that he was not a
larrikin at all, but a fantasy; having
his only validity as a symbol of the
normal male, as we all like to think of
ourselves and as Burns most convinc-
ingly portrayed him, who sometimes
gets tight on a Friday night and
annoys the little woman, but is a pretty
good fellow underneath: one of the
best, in fact, and a very proper
recipient for beef-tea after he has had
a night-out with the boys.
I must admit that at this date, after
he has so long been hallowed in the
role, it seems heretical to suggest
that Bill was never a larrikin. There
is no doubt he was accepted as such
in his period. We have Henry Lawson’s
word on that, in the pleasant, senti-
mental little foreword reprinted in this
edition, going on about how Dennis
had created a better larrikin than any
Henry did himself.
There might be some truth in that;
for Lawson, borrowing his outlook
from Dickens, didn’t do his city types
nearly so well as his bush people; but
surely the Bloke could not remotely be
compared, as a portrait of a larrikin,
with the achievements of Dyson and
Louis Stone.
And, in fact, when you reread
Dennis’s poem, it is amazing to discover
how very few pictures of larrikin-life
there are in it. We have the two
references to stoushing coppers; we are
told that Bill was addicted to “gettin’
shick” and “ ’eadin’ browns” and that
he had a “barrer”; we are told that
Ginger Mick was a rabbit-oh. There
is the Bloke’s outburst of “Put in the
boot!” at “Romeo and Juliet” (and a
nice sentiment that is, for a reformed
character!). We are told that he spends
his night-out playing two-up. And
that, really, is about all. No copper-
bashing is ever described ; no
rabbit-ohing ; not even the game of
two-up. The whole thing depends, for
its impression of being a picture of
larrikin-life, on these few touches, on
a few local references to “Little Lon.”
and the like (which would be better
understood in the period than they are
now), on Hal Gye’s illustrations of the
larrikin neckerchiefs on his Cupids,
and, of course, on the slang—itself
obviously, though with many authentic
touches, an invented language. What
larrikin ever spoke like this? —
Sure of ’is title then, the champeen
Day
Begins to put on dawg among ’is
push,
An’ as he mooches on ’is gaudy way,
Drors tribute from each tree an’
flow’r an’ bush.
An,’ w’ile ’e swigs the dew in sylvan
bars,
The sun shouts insults at the sneakin’
stars.
Basically, as a larrikin-poem, I think
it rests almost entirely on the know-
ledge and sentiment of the period. It
was enough, when it was first
published, for Dennis to label his
character “Larrikin” and put in a few
tiny brush-strokes to indicate the back-
ground; and the public, eager to
romanticise the larrikin as a kind of
city version of the ever-popular outlaw,
took the Bloke to its heart and believed
in him. But it was with more than a
few quick dabs like this that Paterson
(Continued on page 58)


MIGHTY TRUCKS
the International AS-160 series
** * *
f A
INTERNATIONAL AS-162 WITH
TIPPING BODY
INTERNATIONAL AS-160, K
TRAY BODY V
If you are looking at medium—heavy duty trucks,
tee the compact International ASC-160 Cab-Forward
Models and the International ASW-160 Four Wheel
Drive for difficult off-highway work. There is an
International truck to exactly meet your job require-
tnentt.
ff
mg
a
** *. whichever way you look at them!
tSm
INTERNATIONAL AS-162 SEMI-TRAILER
Truck operators who have been struck by pro-
hibitive running costs should closely examine the
International AS-160 Series as dependable, money-
makers. You. can expect maximum reliability from
the AS-160 Series because these trucks have been
hammered through “Trial by Torture” tests, the
toughest engineering tests in Australia. You can
expect —and get —more work willingness and econ-
omy from their Australian Black Diamond Engines.
Whichever way you look at the International
AS-160 Series Trucks —as a maintenance man, a
driver—or in the credit balance in your account
books —they are a mighty proposition.
Can we back our statement with facts and figures ?
Certainly ! Call at the International Harvester
Office or your nearest I.H. Dealer and we’ll give
them to you with pleasure.
ALL TRUCK-BUILT FROM THE GROUND UP!
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY.
11
LTD.
FMT-755/36


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 10, 1957
Vol. 78—No. 4039
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
CHAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queens \nd : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Vestralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
"DISARMAMENT"
THE Prime Ministers’ conference has
been sitting during a period in which
the international machinery designed
in the later years of World War II to
save the universe was showing its most
depressing aspects.
The report of the United Nations
Committee on Hungary had shocked a
world inured to horror, without
shocking the U.N. into action. It
didn’t even shock the cynical Kremlin
into a serious denial or excuse. The
feeling in the multi-millionaire U.N.
building in New York, with its crowds
of long-hairs and idlers, seemed
to be that September would be soon
enough to talk about it all, though Mr.
Menzies in London was urging the
British Commonwealth to try to put
some teeth into the flaccid abstraction
which seems to be losing its voice as
well as the little power to bite which
it had.
In Europe, the Soviet grip on the
Eastern satellites grows tighter and its
influence is slowly inching into Africa,
while its submarines and cruisers
flaunt the Red Flag in support of
Nasser, whose aggresion has been
victorious with U.N. aid.
Nehru consolidates his seizure of
Kashmir, secure in the knowledge that
he has the backing of the Kremlin in
anything that will humiliate the
Western Powers and weaken Pakistan.
He has, however, obviously lost even
the pretence of leadership in South-
east Asia to Mao. who no longer even
troubles to dispute the fact that he has
liquidated hundreds of thousands of
Chinese in the process of establishing
the Communist Government, but is at
the same time attracting heaps of fat-
heads to Peking with the bribe of free
trips and junketing.
But at the same time this “peace-
ful” China, so eager to enter the ranks
of the United Nations, has been flout-
ing every agreement involved in the
Korean armistice and building-up in
North Korea a force utterly at variance
with the solemn treaty entered into by
the Communist nations.
It can have.no other purpose but the
ultimate invasion of South Korea or
of being used as a threat to Japan.
Communist policy obviously aims for
the day when Syngman Rhee must
disappear—and that cannot be far off,
since he is 80 —and then it will try to
win over the South Koreans through a
common policy of enmity to Japan—
a common force both in the Northern
and Southern Korean regions.
While all this is going on and
Russian purges are in progress and
Soviet intrigue ferments in every
little country in the Middle East and
poisons the air of Africa and
Indonesia, the do-gooders in the inter-
national field continue their Five
Power disarmament talks.
The discussions have raged for
weeks, as before that they have raged
over years, covering the same ground
of forces-reduction. policing of
territory, “open skies,” inspection of
“defence” facilities—which on one
side are purely and professedly aggres-
sive, since Communism which controls
them is determinedly aggressive and
must remain so as long as it remains
Communism.
A few days ago Mr. Dulles was
solemnly explaining the United States
disarmament plan—obviously on lines
which Russia would never be likely
to accept in a generation of elephants.
He stated “specifically that the
American proposal for a suspension of
nuclear tests was dependent on a
parallel'agreement by the U.S.S.R. for
a controlled reduction of the amount
of fissionable material devoted to
nuclear weapons.” But only a week
before President Eisenhower had
stated that he would be “perfectly
delighted” to agree to a temporary
suspension of tests, “subject only to
arrangements for inspection already
proposed by Moscow.” All the
enthusiasm for “getting somewhere
fast” which had marked Mr. Dulles’s
and President Eisenhower’s utterances
in mid-June had disappeared.
The same sort of confusion exists
between the scientists and Communist
propagandists who have been fighting
for the suspension of nuclear tests
because of the “horrible dangers of the
fall-out,” with the new claims of the
same scientists and propagandists of
each country that they have devised a
“clean” bomb with less fall-out than
any rival. In fact, in the United States
the claim now is that American bombs
are so clean that there is practically
no fall-out at all.
On the same day that Mr. Dulles
began to hedge, the Russians became
more eager for a peaceful and
immediate arrangement and more
condemnatory of brutal Western
aggressors who are anxious to shed
the blood of the innocent —any of the
sea of blood which Russia has shed
and persuaded other people to shed
over the past few years being of course
not innocent, since it belonged to people
unfriendly to Russia’s policy of world
revolution and the establishment of
permanent peace through the use of
bomb and gun.
When the almost worn-out American
proposals for reduction of manpower
in the forces came forward —United
States and Russia beginning with
2,500.000 and reducing to 1,700.000
in three years ; Britain and France
reducing from 750,000 each to 650.000
in the same period—they had a cool
reception from the Kremlin. There was
no mention, of course, of Chinese
levels, which are a vital factor, since
the Chinese own the greatest reservoir
of Communist manpower.
Actually, the position seems to be that
the Russians would welcome general
cessation of nuclear tests, because they
are behind the Western world in that
matter and are surrounded and a
central target. They would be willing
to revert to a position in which old
methods of war ruled, with the West
bound by a nuclear-power agree-
ment which it would keep, while they
themselves would, as in Korea and
before that in Manchuria and Western
Europe, keep any treaty which
they made only while it was expedient
to their purpose. Moscow has never
been at a loss for an excuse to
flagrantly break its word.
Whenever there is sign that an agree-
ment may be made it is the United
States which now. in contrast with the
position a little while ago, shows signs
of reluctance to go into the cold water.
Presumably it has learned by
experience that an agreement with
Russia is more dangerous than no
agreement, since it involves accepting
the Kremlin’s good faith, which doesn’t
exist, and pledging its own, which does.
However, after the atomic discussion
had apparently ended in futility,
Mr. Stassen persuaded the Western
delegates on July 1 to make a
new offer to Russia about atomic dis-
armament —“the biggest yet,” namely,
to “halt nuclear tests for ten months if
Russia would agree to negotiate an end
to nuclear-bomb production.”
It is about time the British Common-
wealth, now possessed of its own
nuclear weapons and with deterrent
power as strong as any country, stepped
out of the undignified sham-negotia-
tions and went about its own business.
Keeping the peace, building-up its own
economy and nuclear defence, minding
its own business, it should leave
the ambit of Power-politics manoeuvre,
which is all that the debates of U.N.
and Power conferences on disarma-
ment now represent.


THE DOGFIGHT IN THE TUCKER-DOX
(Home Thoughts From Abroad)


PLAIN ENGLISH
Growing Co-operation
The Prime Ministers’ Conference closed
in London in a better atmosphere than
for many a year, although the com-
munique issued was in the main of the
usual type.
The most important discussions of
the conference were completely secret.
But there is no doubt that defence
arrangements have taken a new turn and
that the ability of the U.K. to offer the
Dominions as sound a nuclear defence
as the United States had a profound
effect in tightening the links and making
for an overall Commonwealth plan.
Discussions have been started to
reorganise trade relationships. The
Canadian Prime Minister has said that
he would like to see about 15 per cent,
of Canadian buying' in the United States
transferred to the United Kingdom, and
the ground is being prepared for dis-
cussions with Mr. Menzies when he visits
Canada at the end of July for expansion
of trade with Australia.
The most important factor which has
been revealed, however, is the accord
between Messrs. Macmillan, Menzies and
Diefenbaker, who are all men of con-
siderable stature in any company, and
who have displayed the faculty to plan
in unison. For the first time in years
at a conference the heads of the three
great countries of the Commonwealth
have been thinking along similar lines
and towards the same end. It is obvious
that the greatest influences in bringing
this about have been the swing away
from subservience to the United States
and towards closer relationship with the
U.K. in the Canadian attitude, and the
disappearance from British policy of the
tendency to international busybodying and
adventurism which marked the reigns of
Churchill, Attlee and Eden. All of those
three preferred meddling in foreign fields
to consolidation in the national and
Commonwealth fields.
Macmillan, and with him Menzies and
Diefenbaker, are content to remake the
Commonwealth rather than attempt the
hopeless task of remaking the universe.
Set-to in Queensland
The Liberal-Country parties, which
form the official Opposition in the
Queensland Parliament, have their last
chance of getting control of the Gov-
ernment at the State elections on August
3. It is to be hoped that it isn’t spoilt
by the intrusion of adventurous inde-
pendents who have no chance in the
world of winning, but who are prepared
to take a fly at a long shot.
It goes without saying that in selected
seats Labor will do its best to see that
there are independents in the field to sap
the Liberal or C.P. vote, and electors
will have to beware of these dark horses.
If Labor wins again, whether it is
Gair Labor or Bukowski Labor —or both,
since reconciliation is not beyond the
bounds of possibility for at least some
of the Gair lot —its members will profit
by the fright they have had and take
every measure to see that the Labor
dictatorship is never again threatened.
The Opposition is putting a strong
speaking-team into the field, including a
number of Federal members ; but it is
unfortunate that Menzies won’t be home
in time to turn his guns on Bukowski
and his minions. These are leaving no
stone unturned, no matter what happens
to be underneath it.
The speeches of both Nicklin (C.P.),
the official leader of the Opposition, and
Morris, leader of the Liberal remnant,
were unusually vigorous. Nicklin has
made no bones about the methods by
which Labor has retained power—
“entrenched behind unassailable barri-
cades of blatantly-rigged electoral
boundaries and backed by an auxiliary
force of ghostly voters.” He has stressed
the fact that “the Q.C.E. has not hesi-
tated to say that while a Labor Govern-
ment is in power the Q.C.E., not Parlia-
ment, should govern,” and that Mr.
Duggan has “acknowledged publicly that
he will bow to the Q.C.E.”
It is too early to see the trends or real
issues which count as yet. The only
certainty is that the campaign will be
about the hottest and roughest since
Ryan and Theodore attained office in
1915.
Bankers May Be Sorry
[From Canberra]
There’s more than a twist of irony in the
latest decision to separate the Common-
wealth Bank activities, for which the
private banks have been lobbying for the
past six years.
Barring miracles (it’s too late for the
private bankers to make a tactical with-
drawal, and, anyway, they have already
announced they are standing pat) the new
bank legislation, which will become law
before Christmas, will make the Common-
wealth Trading Bank more powerful than
ever. This is just what the sponsors of
the legislation were aiming against. They
wanted to break the Commonwealth
Trading Bank’s growing power by
separating it from the all-powerful
Central Bank, which controls the £735-
miflion assets of the Commonwealth
Savings Bank —the third “arm” of the
“people’s bank.”
They are achieving separation, but
unwittingly have left the way open for a
future Labor Government to put them
out of business in the manner forecast
boastingly by Deputy Opposition-leader
Arthur Calwell: strangulation through
unfair discrimination. This would be
bank-nationalisation the easy way. No
problems with the High Court and the
Privy Council: no long legal wrangles
between Dr. Evatt and learned judges.
The continuous demand for separation
has resulted in a separation not merely of
powers and functions but of funds. The
C.T.B. will, by a decision believed to have
been made in London recently by Mr.
Menzies, have £735 million to play with
in its bid to operate in fair competition
with the private banks, subject to the res-
triction on savings-bank lending. Under
Sir Arthur Fadden, or any other
Treasurer of his political hue, a restrain-
ing hand will be placed on the C.T.8.;
legislation will limit the use to which the
bank may use the money to whip-up
business.
But how easy for the next Labor
Government to amend that legislation!,
A Blow to Bolte
No satisfactory explanation for the sub-
stantial win—and there is no disguising
the fact that the Liberal vote was less than
any of the four contesting parties expected
—of the Country party in the Gippsland
Province by-election for the Victorian
Council is tenable other than that
Gippsland, despite the rapid industrialisa-
tion of parts of it, remains a stronghold
of the Country party. It is chiefly a
dairyfarming area, and Victorian cockies
are traditional C.P. voters.
The Liberals, aside from campaign-
propaganda and the boosting of party
morale, were genuinely confident of win-
ning the seat, increasing their strength in
the Council and checking the more
avaricious demands of the Country party
as well as, of course, settling the
Government itself more firmly in the
saddle and deterring the secret manoeuvr-
ing for a Labor Government with C.P.
support.
This could be achieved only by the
defeat of the Government on a vital vote
in the Legislative Council, but there can
be no doubt it has been anticipated by the
recent decision of the Labor organisation
freeing Cain to form a Government with-
out a majority.
The vote, however, doesn't indicate that
the Bolte Government has passed the peak
of its popularity in the electorate. Much
of its legislation has been directed to city
problems, which may have been resented
by the more parochial Gippslanders; the
winner, R. W. May, is widely known
throughout the province, and the Liberal,
R. B. M. Gerrand, although popular,
suffered no doubt from the electoral dis-
ability of being a member of a well-off
grazing family.
Inter-State Hauliers
Although all State Governments had
been —and still are —awaiting the High
Court judgment on the validity of the
Victorian and South Australian Road
Transport Acts, with its vital bearing on
their capacity to levy taxes on inter-State
traffic, they had apparently not reckoned
on the possibility of a successful
challenge to the existing N. S. Wales
regulations.
Collier Garland, Ltd., a Brisbane
haulier, had appealed against its convic-
tion for having allowed one of its
vehicles to be driven in N.S.W. without
being registered in N.S.W. The High
Court, upholding the appeal in a
unanimous judgment, said that the regu-
lation requiring registration lay outside


any conception of “a permissible regula-
tion consistent with the freedom of inter-
state intercourse assured by Section 92
of the Constitution.”
The immediate effect of this judg-
ment was to throw the N.S.W. Transport
authorities (and, to a lesser degree, those
of some other States) into a flat spin.
N.S.W. Transport Minister Enticknap
said it seemed that the States couldn’t
touch inter-State hauliers in any way,
no matter how much damage they did
to the roads. The High Court had already
ruled-out taxing them, and the latest
judgment meant that they couldn’t even
be charged a 255. registration-fee. He
felt that the only solution was a Federal
referendum asking for taxing-powers over
the vehicles. Attorney-General Sheahan
expressed a similar opinion, and a spokes-
man for long-distance hauliers also
favored Federal control.
A closer examination of the judgment
suggested that they were taking too pessi-
mistic a view. The judges seem to have
been faulting the framing of the regula-
tions, not the principle behind them.
They pointed out that although in prac-
tice N.S.W. did not require vehicles
registered in another State to re-register
in N.S.W., the terms of the law said they
must do so. (The vehicle involved in the
test case was not registered in any
State.) Moreover, the regulations did not
give a visiting vehicle any right to be
registered in N.S.W. But the judgment
continued, “Had the law been brought
into conformity with what is seen to be
the practice, there is no reason to suppose
that its validity would have been open
to the present attack.”
On the face of it, it would seem to be
a simple matter to accept the hint and
redraft the Act and regulations. The deci-
sion concerns registration only ; the
bigger question of taxing inter-State
transports still awaits the verdict of the
High Court.
That Brisbane Cabinet
[From Canberra]
When Sir Arthur Fadden announced that
he proposed holding a meeting of Federal
Cabinet on his home ground, Brisbane,
there were whispers in the lobbies
in Canberra that “good old Artie”
was taking a rest-cure —the Cabinet-meet-
ing was just a stunt to give Ministers a
spell in Queensland’s sunshine.
Anyone who read his daily news-
papers on June 25 and 26 knows that it
was no holiday. In those two days
Federal Ministers announced six major
decisions —(1) Australian agreement with
the U.S. State Department request for a
U.S. air route over the Antarctic (the
quid pro quo for the Qantas round-the-
world service across America), (2) rejec-
tion of Australian National Airways’ pro-
posal for a new Authority to run domestic
airlines, (3) sale of the Commonwealth’s
50 p.c. shareholding in Commonwealth
Engineering, (4) more money for co-
operative housing societies, (5) temporary
cessation of the Salk anti-polio immunisa-
tion programme, and (6) a refusal to raise
the butter-subsidy by £500,000.
Not satisfied with these items of
national interest, Cabinet sat down to
prove that the first Federal Cabinet meet-
ing in Brisbane for 17 years would be well
remembered. Decisions of local interest
provided for research into prawn-fishing
off the Queensland coast and the early
extension of TV to Brisbane.
One Minister, in the carnival atmos-
phere following the rising of Cabinet,
offered the pious hope that the Budget-
talks due to begin soon might be held
away from the procrastinating tempo of
the national capital.
Khrushchev Tighfens-up
[By “Ek Dam"]
In essence, what has happened in the
Kremlin is that the old guard of Stalinists
whom Khrushchev thought it prudent
not to sack while they were prepared to
help him get rid of their own rivals in the
Stalinist section have been finally jet-
tisoned. Khrushchev has now completed
the work of getting rid of potential rivals.
Molotov, S h e p i 1 o v, Kaganovich,
Malenkov, Saburov and Petruvkhin have
gone, for “anti-party activities.” It is
the old game of the purges of the 1930’s
over again—one lot of doomed were put
into the police to wipe out another lot;
then another lot were put on the bench
to wipe out the police faction; and,
finally, the bench itself was smoothly
liquidated almost to the last man. The
principle of “divide and conquer” is well
understood in the Kremlin.
Bulganin remains chairman of the
Council of Ministers. All the four “first-
deputy-chairmen” of Cabinet appointed
after the Twentieth Congress of the Com-
munist Party have been sacked save
Mikoyan, who was the senior, an old and
cunning Stalinist, yet the only one closely
associated with Khrushchev in recent
years. And Malenkov was removed from
the list of minor deputy-chairmen.
Five old members of the Communist
Party’s Presidium of 11 have disappeared,
along with one out of six “canaictate” —
i.e., substitute —members, Shepilov.
The emphasis in the management of the
party has shifted back along Stalinist
lines to the secretariat. Khrushchev, first
secretary, is more tightly in command.
His six assistant-secretaries, beginning
with Aristov and ending with Suslov, are
now all in the senior Presidium. The
chairman of the Party Control Com-
mittee, Nikolai Schvernik, who is virtu-
ally Chief Justice and Chief of Police
and head of discipline, goes into the
Presidium.
The emphasis has been moved from the
economic to the military. Mikoyan, who
has been preserved, is an Armenian who
gave up the Nestorian priesthood for
Comrfiunism. He was one of Stalin’s most
trusted men, also one of Khrushchev’s two
chief cronies. He was a member of the
Politbureau as far back at 1936, when
he was first senior Soviet Minister to be
allowed to visit the United States. He
is an authority on foreign resources ; and
he has always, in effect, been Chief Com-
missary of the Red Army.
Zhukov, who moves up into a command-
ing position, is commander-in-chief of
the whole of the armies of the Communist
bloc in Europe. Bulganin and Voro-
sbilov, both marshals and aggressive in
policy, remain. Kuusinen is a Finn, with
an expert knowledge of Scandinavia, in
the defence of which Moscow has
recently taken a special interest.
Schvernik is the labor expert, the handler
of the trade-unions ; Suslov is a foreign-
affairs and strategy expert; Ignatev is a
heavy-industry man. The real new
control —as far as it is new—-consists of
Khrushchev and his surrounding secre-
tarial assistants, and a group of revolu-
tionary and military world strategists, the
basic organisation of war and foreign
subversion.
The Reluctant Firemen
Melbourne Fire Brigades Board gave
no reason whatever for refusing to pay
a £3 fine imposed on one of its employees
for crossing a corner against a red light
to get to a fire smartly, and no tenaole
one exists.
The only reasonable excuse the board
could have made was that the acceptance
of the responsibility for the fine left the
board vulnerable to actions where more
serious charges might be laid ; but there
was no legal bar to the payment of the
fine without prejudice.
As it is, the firemen’s union has in-
structed its members to observe traffic
by-laws on its way to fires, and in one
instance, where an engine could have
gone round three banked trams on the
wrong side of the road, it halted, and its
crew raced on, on foot, to the scene to
discover the small fire had been controlled
by another detachment.
The firemen, though, forgot union
directions, and the police waived traffic
rules, when two small fires, indicating
arson, broke out almost simultaneously
in the State Theatre in Flinders-street.
They were smartly on the job, getting to it
on the wrong traffic-lane, showing their
hearts were in the right place, and,
incidentally, increasing public support of
their cause.
Instigated Murder
One of the chief forms of American
culture, horror comics, received long-
overdue notice in Victoria last week when
judge, jury and Bar joined in condemna-
tion of their effect on adolescents during
the trial of a 14-year-old lad who had
killed his 17-year-old sister with 48 stab-
wounds with a double-edged hunting-
knife, the handle of which was in the form
of a naked woman.
Violence of some form with whip, gun
or knife appeared on every page of some
of his comics shown to the jury, and the
import of the narratives was summed-up
by one character when he said, “Fluman
life is one of the cheapest things in the
world” ; so that it was impossible not to
feel full sympathy with the boy’s counsel
when he held up a sheaf of them and
asked, “Who should be in the dock—this
boy or the purveyors of this violent,
perverted filth?”
Last year two youths accused of tortur-
ing and terrorising eight Footscray
(Continued on page 13)


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
TF you want to see the last
place on earth go to Liverpool,
N. S. Wales, and have a look at the
cemetery, right on the main road. They’ve
had a bushfire through it —Heaven knows
what state of neglect it was in to sustain
a bushfire —and all those blackened tomb-
stones tottering in the black earth . . .
Really ! I can only hope that the inhabi-
tants are used to the smell of smoke. —-
“Mac Hoots.”
* ►:«
“Dorian”: About 200 miles south of
Brisbane, purring along the Pacific in an
inter-State coach, a woman began to com-
plain of the cold. Soon the whole bus
knew she was almost freezing ; eventu-
ally a middle-aged gent, a couple of seats
down from me got to his feet, struggled
past his companion and, snatching his
overnight-bag from the luggage-rack, un-
zipped it and produced a bottle of Scot-
land’s best. Bottle in hand, he made his
way along the lurching corridor and said
to the iceberg, “If you can find a cup or
a tumbler you can have a swig of this.”
She thawed and began rummaging. When
I looked around a minute or two later
she was lapping the spirit from a souvenir
ashtray.
v
“Jadas”: Aftermath of the “Argus”-
closure: Old-time publishing hand, 26
years on night-work, now has 9-to-5 day-
job. Can sleep only between 6 p.m. and
10 p.m.; gets up dying of hunger around
2 a.m.; and at 10 in the morning wants
to sleep. Talk about daylight-saving up-
setting the chooks!
❖ ♦♦♦
“Mcßon”: Waking to find he had been
carried past his station a traveller on an
N.S.W. night-express dived for the
emergency-chain and stopped the train.
Railway officials reckoned he had acted
illegally and a magistrate handed-out a
£3-fine. The culprit invited his own con-
viction with the excuse that he didn’t have
enough cash to pay his fare back from
the next stopping-station. He probably
knows now that in such circumstances he
would have been allowed to travel back
free of charge.
❖ ❖ *!♦
“Kate”: “Ah, someone wanting to see
themselves taking life easy!” I thought
as I read this notice in one of our daily
papers: “Wanted to Buy: a full-length
mirror and a rocking-chair.” It reminded
me of my sister’s wedding, when one of
his relations gave my sister, as a wedding-
present, a mirror, along with these words:
“Here, work for your living or watch
yourself starve — he’ll never keep you.”
“Doormat”: No doubt for females
only ; sign on a country roadside gate:
“Day-old chicks for sale, any age.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Allan B.”: A little country school
ran a pet-show with about £5O as target,
for new school equipment, and finished-
up close on the £2OO-mark, the winner
getting nearly 7000 penny-votes for his
guinea-pig. A close second was a galah,
others along the line with votes including
a one-legged magpie, a turtle, a fish, a
goat, and two Alsatians.
❖ ❖
“Roger Mike”: I note that the 8.8. C.
allows the Duke of Edinburgh to speak
on a TV session without a script. Things
must be different in England. When /
gave a radio-talk our own Broadcasting
Commission wanted not one script, but
four —and looked mighty critical at the
typing on the quadruplicate copy.
+X+ *X* ♦♦♦
“Tabba”: “Ye tak’ the high-road and
I’ll tak’ the low-road, and I’ll be in
Scotland before ye!” was apparently
intended to rhyme with Loch Ore, which
name appeared in the early version of the
song. “Loch Lomond” seems to have
come into general favor after the song
topped the hit-parade for 1745. Does
anyone know why the latter name should
have greater appeal?
♦> *j*
“Xavier”: An undergraduate observ-
ing a Melbourne road-gang at work
phoned police that a bunch of students
masquerading as City Council' employees
were digging-up a thoroughfare using
picks, drills and shovels. Before the Law
appeared the hoaxer advised the work-
men that students disguised as police were
“How many , Sweetie?"
THAT’S EXTRA!
“Visiting American speech-expert Dr. R. T.
Oliver says: ‘From listening in trams and feriy-
boats I would say that the lower-salaried Aus-
tralian articulates slovenly, and that s a very
bad thing.’ ”
We’re just a lot of b blobs
Working for the b —7 nobs ;
Our ideel, if we have one, s a
Fair day’s work for fair day’s pay,
With extra if we work in dirt,
And compo. if were killed or hurt.
And if we do the job correct
That’s all the b s can expect;
Maybe a bale looks better hooked
With little finger nicely crooked,
But stylish labor’s not assured
Unless it’s wrott in the award.
If ears attuned to dassy prose
Find our yabba on the nose
The b s know what they can do —
Shove a speech-loading on our screw :
Free-speech that's bonny speech can be
A damn’ sight bonnier for a fee.
Then there would be no more “go-slow,"
But rather: “Please ! Adagio /”
No cries of “Strike!" No shaking fist,
But “Gentlemen, let us desist.’’
But one will have to stay an oaf
Until one’s paid to use one’s loaf.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


en route to halt their labors. When
gendarmes did arrive there was a brief
but colossal misunderstanding and a near-
brawl.
❖ ❖ ❖
“N. 8.”: He was reluctant to again
ring the builder about a start on his
garage, but his wife, hitherto disinterested,
said he was being imposed upon and she
would ring. It seemed to be a long and
vigorous argument .and presently she
returned triumphant: “You have to
stand over them. I said the bricks must
be here on Tuesday without fail -and he’s
agreed.” Hubby took the easy way out
•—he didn’t point out it was a fibro-and-
timber construction.
❖ * ❖
“ ’Ermit”: Miss 14-year-old’s placing
of air-conditioning in the office as the
first requisite in selecting a job (B.
29/5/’57) seems to be part of the new
trend; the number of air-conditioned
office-buildings in Sydney is rapidly
increasing—maybe too late to do indi-
vidual firms any good, because if the
first half of this year’s winter is any
criterion the whole climate’s being air-
conditioned.
“Sister Ellell”: “Mick o’ Melbourne’s”
“Home for Falling Women” (B. 29/5/’57)
revives memories of being camped at the
Showground, 1939-45. We were billeted
in an erstwhile nurses’ call-depot, taken
over by the Army, and always known as
“Flo’s.” At the gate a brass plate shone
for all to see: “Florence Nightingale
Home. For Trained Nurses and Pro-
fessional Women.” Our less-worthy
escorts for leisure-hours proclaimed that
“Anyone can see the nurses were only
amateurs! ”
♦> * ♦>
“L.R.M.”: To keep the kids off our
new basketball court until the bitumen
set anyone who trespassed had to put in
a spell on the roller. The teacher who left
a team of law-breakers hard at it came
back to find an entirely different team
at work and the leader of the first gang
standing back with watch in hand.
“Forty-five seconds!” he declared,
“You’ve still got five second*
And the roller yrss Tusheo by the queue
jiad Hned-up to have a go at making
the fastest time up and down the court
pulling the roller.
*s♦
“Chipper”: The Flying Grannies who
made the air-hop to visit the American
side of the family didn’t lose their sense
of humor when the going was tough
over the Tasman. On the return trip the
girls thought it was Journey’s-end as the
plane heaved and bucked over a stormy
sea.. “Are you prepared to see your
Maker?” quoth one of the more religious.
Back came the reply: “Now I’ve had a
second look at Elmer I’m prepared to see
anybody providin’ he don’t chew tibaccy.”
♦> ♦♦♦
“8.J.L.”: Bugle-calls (B. 19/6/’57):
one of the few praiseworthy features of
our “dills, drunks, and drongos” unit,
newly formed at Tidworth Park in
England, was our classic bugler.
“Gabriel” was so worth hearing that the
C.O. decided to have him give a demon-
stration of all the bugle-calls. “All of
them, sir?” echoed the astounded
bugler. “Yes, every one,” affirmed
the colonel; “I presume you know
them?” “As a matter of fact 1 do,” said
“Gab.,” “but, excuse me, sir, there’s
two-hundred-and-fifty-odd in the book.”
So the programme was curtailed, although
“Defaulters” was given an extended
airing. “Gabriel” had a rare opportunity
some weeks later when the urgent notes
from his bugle shattered our slumbers
that fateful night in September, 1940. I
wonder w how many living buglers can
claim to have sounded the “General
Alarm” in grim earnest?
♦♦♦ ♦> ❖
“Narumee”: John Redwood A ",u*fson*s
Almanac and Poems, pub-
lished jw Macdonald and Co., London,
iccSlCednigh praise in the Melbourne
“Age” literary supplement:
Mr. Macdonald is regarded by critics in
both Britain and the United States as a
great narrative poet and technician. This
latest collection of his poems reveals the
width of his range and the tenderness and
power of hjs many-sided work.
Ah, to be as well-known as Mr.
Macdonald!
“8.J.L.”: Like “Ceg” (B. 19/6/’57) I
once guffawed in the wrong place
and Mrs. B.J.L. threatened to
leave me before she became Mrs.
B.J.L. We were attending that
epic, “Song of Russia,” starring Mr.
Robert Taylor ; and the sight of him and
a glamorous guerrilla lass, immaculately
permed despite the struggle through mud
and vine, shattering a German armored
column with only an elephant-rifle, was
too much. Mind you, Mr. Taylor didn’t
blow off a mere track here and there each
time he put his shoulder to the gun. Oh,
no! The entire tank exploded in a sheet
of flame. Give me Alec Guiness: when
he's funny he means it.
* *• ❖
“C.W.”: I don’t want to provide an
excuse for adding another penny to
postage-stamps, but the flag that flutters
above the Hobart G.P.O. is a sad and
sorry rag indeed, with more holes than
stars on it.
* * *
“Doormat”: Our history-teacher at the
high school showed us fathers a young
hopeful’s exam.-paper, where “the
notorious sea captain retired with ; '
fame spread all over the marit rf ’ f
***
At a busy street-crossing in
Sydney an elderly woman clutching a
little girl by the hand made to cross the
road against the upraised hand of the
constable, who waved her back imperi-
ously to the footpath. When her turn
came to cross she passed with her charge
close to the cop. He bent over, patted
the toddler on the head and remarked,
“Look after Grannie, dear!”
♦♦♦
“Comadai”: The shortest telephone-
conversation I’ve had consisted of three
words. Attached to our office was an
outside staff whose job it was to pay
household calls. Each morning they col-
lected their visiting-lists, and at various
times rang us for any further calls that
had come in. The last of these times was
4.55 p.m.; any extra work then was not
relished ; and this night when Viggers
rang he said, “Viggers.” 1 said, “Noth-
ing!” He said, “Good!”
* ♦> *
“M.S.N.”: Are the blokes employed
by the United Nations Organisations
riding their hobby-horses too far? Some


samples from U.N.O.’s March issue of
the “Monthly Bulletin of Statistics” deal-
ing with conversion-coefficients and
-factors: 1 metre = 3.280833 ft. ; 1 square
metre = 10.763865 sq. ft.; 1 cubic metre
= 1.307943 cu. yds.; 1 metric ton-kilo-
metre =0.611556 long ton-mile. After all
this, and much more, it’s a relief to dis-
cover that 1 cubic metre equals only
0.353 register-ton. Perhaps the calcula-
ting-machine had packed up, or the
statistician had swallowed 14.636985 pints
and was feeling tired.
{4 4>J» 5*
“P.M.”: Crossing Burwood Park
(Sydney) the morning of sharp showers
after the phenomenal dry-spell, I
spotted a glint on the ground, and
extracted a sovereign dated 1907
embedded edgewise in the turf. Years
previously, while walking along the Leich-
hardt (Sydney) canal, I struck a poorer
vein, a half-sovereign, Victoria vintage,
in precisely the same maimer. Now I’m
wondering would suburban couhcils con-
sider issuing me with prospecting rights?
“We shouldn't visit them when We KNOW they're mean."
“Bo”: The Aiß.C.’s morning-news
announcer, touching on the opening round
of the British Open: “Peter Thomson
started off confidentially.” This attribute
can only, of course, be acquired by pros.,
the long sessions at practice and in
tournaments putting them on terms of
easy familiarity with the ball. Mug-
golfers like myself are forced to address
the pill loudly, sternly and at times dis-
respectfully. Peter can get a much more
telling effect, it seems, with a mere
whisper.
“Sevenelms”: Would any of these
haggis-promoters from the Highlands tell
an ignorant Sassenach why the kilt-
ensemble, hallowed by tradition and
authenticated by centuries of function-
alism, involves, on the Filabeg Cealt, the
apparent anachronism of a modern four-
inch nickel-plated safety-pin?
* »;•* *
“Old Digger”: It’s agreed that stamp-
ing -the foot on coming to a halt (B.
22/ 6/ ’57) has become very overdone in
our Army, but what is worse is the present
system of swinging the arms whilst
marching. It is particularly noticeable
when Women’s Services are parading;
they, being unarmed, exaggerate the
action. It may be beneficial to bust-
development, but it looks bloody awful.
❖ *•> ♦>
“XX”: “Hewi” (B. 26 / 6/’57) has got
astray about the Hall of Memory —not
Honor—at the Canberra War Memorial.
I live within sight of the building and
have made frequent visits to view progress
of the work. The public is refused entry
only when it becomes necessary to shift
the 80ft.-high mobile scaffolding so that
the fixers can get at a new piece of wall.
It’s a dangerous process in the restricted
space. As for the souveniring, a few
pieces of mosaic were prised out early
in the game, but now that the special
white-cement mixture between and behind
each tiny fragment of tessera has
thoroughly dried, anyone so inclined
would need to take along a miniature
jack-hammer. The artist, one-armed
Digger, Napier Waller, works in Mel-
bourne and sends the designs in conveni-
ently sized pieces to Canberra, where
skilled artisans fix them to the wall-
surfaces in accordance with Waller’s
master-plan. Completion date: about
next Christmas. The area to be covered
in mosaic equals six tennis-courts ; the
individual pieces number over six-million.
♦♦♦ *l*
“Sunray”: It is not only on the Con-
tinent that the clergy have taken to the
motor-scooter (B. 26/6/’57). Residents
of Kirribilli and Lavender Bay, where the
terrain is mostly very much up or very
much down, have now become used to
the sight of the Reverends scooting about
their duties ; but at first it turned every
head. One of the celestial Mounties
wears a beret and goes flat-out, but the
other I’ve seen sticks to his soft black
hat and travels more slowly upon the path
of righteousness.
THE NEW DECREE
“Fashion-dictator Christian Dior has decreed
that girls will look slinky but demure this
■ summer.” .
Fair Helen, whose face launched the
thousand ships,
And Cleo, who wrecked the two Roman
bods —
With strong realism they came to grips;
They got their men and they beat the
odds.
They knew every possible trick, you’d
guess,
In the age-old art of sex-allure.
But it’s highly improbable their finesse
Included the subtly-created dress
To make them slinky and yet demure.
How a gal’s to achieve this twin effect
Is a rather difficult thing to say.
In homespun or sack she may be decked,
In silks or satins or nylons gay.
They’d be moulded tight so she’d qualify
To be classified slinkily curvature;
But what of the madestly-downcast
eye —
Wouldn’t that the other -falsify ?
Yet she must be slinky and yet demure.
Two quivers should go with every bow.
With those (like the many-reciped
CQok)
She’ll lancTin * b' u: °th g'Jfl steal the show,
She must never stick iu fhesinglg look.
Two widely-divergent things she must'
mix:
Sophisticate and the immature.
If she doesn’t her chances might well be
nix.
So, sister, go! And the heart transfix
By being both slinky and so demure.
The gubernatorial ukase goes
Out io the world, and the girls obey.
They’d no more dream Dior's will to
oppose
Than go to their wedding-tryst in a
dray.
It’s abundantly clear to this paragon,
This Master of Feminine Contour,
That, though it may seem a phenomenon,
It’s as simple as buttering a bun,
To at once be slinky and yet demure.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


SNIGGERWORDS
BY HUGH CAMPBELL
NOTHING disconcerts the young
teacher —or the old one—more
than being suddenly confronted
with a sprinkling of knowing,
half-concealed smirks or outright sniggers.
The situation is made worse by the fact
that it usually crops-up when the teacher
can’t with dignity even admit that he is
aware of a joke, much less that he under-
stands it. And when the teacher happens
to be a woman, I shudder even to imagine
the scene.
Of course, most kids play fair, and
keep their features shamefacedly straight,
but in every class there is the handful who
let their thoughts show enough to pro-
duce an atmosphere of murky discomfort.
Fortunately most school subjects and
their accompanying textbooks can be
confined in an almost clinical isolation,
surrounded by set phrases and cold
formulas, so that the only possible source
of contamination is an occasional slip of
the tongue.
But Literature is Life, they say—and
in it the facts of life in warm vernacular
obtrude themselves all too often.
Granted Victoria died more than half'
ago. But there are still some
phrases you hesitate to explain under the
fascinated gaze of 30 or 40 suddenly avid
15-year-olds in a mixed class.
For instance, every teacher knows the
hollow feeling that comes when some
inquirer, with an air of innocence that is
even occasionally genuine, finds that
“maiden” seems to mean more than simply
“a young girl” in a particular context.
Bearing in mind the assortment of sex,
degree of development and family back-
ground of the average class, you have to
skirt the issue, but you can't do it and
still feel honest, especially as you note
the punctured way the balloon of expec-
tation before you subsides.
Some of these situations are compara-
tively easy to handle, once the teacher has
made up his mind to handle them, because
they are straightforward and obvious, and
at least he can be forewarned. For
example, everyone who has read Shak-
speare knows that many of his characters
bestowed their paternity injudiciously,
and that even editors of school-editions
do not always replace Shakspeare's word
by “base born.”
Faced with this hurdle, the teacher has
first to decide on pronunciation, and
on who is to do the pronouncing. I
remember how the young lady who taught
me my first Shakspeare excited nothing
but scorn by taking over the reading at
the beginning of the offending speech and
giving us an emasculated, literary “bass”
instead of the broad, derisive “bah” we
had been led by common usage to expect
as our right.
Still, I suppose she found that less
embarrassing than the self-conscious
stammering of a shy boy trying to read
the word for the first time in cold blood,
because that was in the days when a boy
was careful where he swore. As a matter
of fact, the problem does not really exist
now, when any boy, and many girls, will
roll the word round savorously before
spitting it out with all the aplomb of a
truck-driver.
Nor is the meaning difficult. The “base
born” of the notes means less than the
word itself, of- course, but it is easy
enough to pick where the first snigger will
show, stare the boy down, and explain
legitimacy.
Practically all the other poets of action
rush to join Shakspeare in using “bloody”
“ Please, J.B ., let's keep talking about credit-control and import-restrictions."
literally, and it is not till you catch the
look in an adolescent eye that you realise
just how frequently the expletive meaning
is quite as applicable as the literal one.
It happens for the first time to everyone ;
generally, I suppose, by way of “The
Ancient Mariner”:
All in a hot and copper sky,
The bloody sun at noon
Right up above the mast did stand . . .
I’ll never forget the effectiveness of
another of my teachers, more robust this
time, who before explaining the force of
the metaphor turned our smirks into
healthy guffaws with his own crushing
fourth line:
So did the bloody moon.
There is no doubt that with this word
the direct frontal attack is the best. At
least, no offended parent has so far told
me otherwise. •
As I said, in a few cases the teacher
can be forewarned, so that he knows how
to stop the snigger before it starts.
It is the unexpected that causes con-
fusion, depending as it does so much on
adolescent fashion, which has catch-words
often unknown to the teacher until too
late, so that what looks quite harmless
becomes suddenly galvanic. In my day
a phrase like “scanty knowledge” used to
make it impossible for our proper young
woman to face us, and she used to have
to turn and write hastily on the black-
board. Today any reference to “false”
seems to be a reliable keyword, but there
are others no one can predict.
Strangely, the intentional earthiness in
such bawdy passages as Charmian’s
reference to an inch more “not in her
husband’s nose,” or the by-play about
kissing the hole in Wall, passes over the
heads of all but the very brightest, the
ones who are too bright to show what
they are thinking. It is rather the odd
sound or the sexy connotation of the
unexpected word that excites sniggers.
(For instance, the only snigger in this
year’s “Antony and Cleopatra” came
from the innocent “Off, pluck off” from
an anguished Antony.)
Apparently a long tradition of expur-
gated editions and careful selection has
led youngsters to believe that all writing
that teachers consider to be worth while
must be ipso facto pure, spiritual and
uninteresting. It often seems to me that
children will not see the significance of a
“blue” passage because they cannot bring
themselves to believe that such a joke
could be in such a place.
Expurgated editions are finished, by
(Continued on page 49)


POLITICAL POINTS
Rowley James came out with a quick
and definite denial of the rumor that he
intended to retire at the end of the present
Parliament. The story was given out at a
meeting of the Cessnock branch of the
A.L.P. when a resolution was passed
inviting Bert Evatt to accept endorse-
ment for the Hunter seat instead of
risking his future in shaky Barton.
James, who has held Hunter since 1928,
says he definitely intends to stand again,
though he may make the next term his
last. He said he thought Cessnock should
have had the courtesy to approach him
before making its announcement.
Courtesy? Rowley must be getting soft!
• •
N. S. Wales Opposition-leader Morton
has found one point of agreement with
Premier Cahill —they both want to see
the end of payroll-tax.
• •
Queensland is used to having hordes of
Federal M.P.s swoop down upon it during
the Canberra winter recess, but has never
seen anything like the present invasion.
Usually they’re just following the sun,
but this winter droves of ’em have been
rostered for duty in the State election
campaign. N.S.W. Labor members in
particular are scurrying north to speak
on A.L.P. platforms, the word having
been passed around that the last one over
the border is a Grouper.
• •
Motorists in N. S. Wales have been
warned to prepare for another slug —an
increase in third-party insurance-rates.
The warning comes from one who should
know —M. G. Cooke, general-manager of
the Government Insurance Office, which
carries about 80 per cent, of this busi-
ness and loses heavily on it. ' Currenf
rate for private cars is £7 14s. 6d. Vic-
torian motorists pay £ll and there seems
to be an inexorable law in such matters
that to achieve parity the lower charge
is always raised ; never the reverse.
• •
With an export-cheque of £994 million
(why couldn’t someone scrape up a few
more bales of wool to make it round
figures?) Australia’s trade-balance for
1956-57, before allowing for freights, in-
surance and other invisible imports, was
a surplus of £276 million. Imports for
the year were down by £lO2 million and
exports were £213 million higher. In-
visibles will considerably reduce the
surplus—last year they took £lO7 million
—but Fadden is probably right in saying
it should restore the loss of reserves
incurred in the two previous financial
years.
There has been a fractional increase in
the price of milk in Victoria —the first in
four years. At Melbourne still gets
its pint of milk 2d. cheaper than Jacky
Ferguson’s Milk Board supplies it to
Sydney.
• •
Nicklin is advocating a sort of Declara-
tion of Human Rights for Queensland, to
be embodied in the State Constitution.
N. S. Wales Opposition-leader Morton
made a similar suggestion at the last
election in his State. It’s an idea that
sounds attractive until it is examined
more closely, but in practice its effect
could be quite the opposite of what is
intended. By defining rights and liberties
you also place limitations on them.
• •
N. S. Wales Transport Minister
Enticknap, explaining why his railways
lost £5,785,000, which was nearly £2
million more than the Budget 1 estimate,
said that Railways Commissioner
McCusker had told him that this was
caused partly by “an inescapable
passenger-resistance to increased fares.”
The falling-off in the number of passen-
gers carried bears this out, but shouldn’t
that factor have been considered in the
original estimate?
Meanwhile, the South Australian
authorities, whose trains and trams have
been losing heavily for years, are said
to be contemplating putting up the fares,
which have been stationary since 1955.
They’d better watch that fellow
passenger-resistanc®.
• •
C.5.1.R.0. rain-makers have been
getting the thanks of graziers and farmers
following two inches of rain over a wide
area of western Queensland. Good luck
to ’em! But it’ll be no good their trying
to make excuses when flood-time comes
round.
• •
Whether the expulsion (or resignation)
of N.S.W. Taxpayers’ Association presi-
dent Sind el is a direct result of his publi-
cised urging of taxpayers to claim fares
to and from work as a deduction in their
income-tax returns, or whether he had
other reasons for disagreement with his
council, there’s a lot to be said for the
justice of such a deduction, although the
Taxation Commissioner has always dis-
allowed it. The executive of the asso-
ciation apparently recognises this, but
objects to Sindel’s way of going about
it.
Latest advice from the association,
given after a conference with the commis-
sioner, is that taxpayers should not claim
this deduction when compiling their
returns, but should wait till their assess-
ment (and refund) is received. Then they
should apply by letter for re-assessment.
Sort of eating your cake and then trying
to get it.
W. J. Smith, former managing-director
of Australian Consolidated Industries,
who is generally credited with being able
to see further through a piece of glass
than any other man in Australia, has been
asked by Cahill to advise on means of
providing alternative permanent jobs for
displaced miners. He’s already visited
the coalfields, but isn’t talking till he’s
collected more facts. Cahill also wants
Smith to go overseas to attempt to attract
new industries to N. S. Wales. At least
he'd have more chance of success than
one of Cahill’s wandering Ministers.
V •
“N.A.8.”: Since the electrification of
the railway from Sydney to Lithgow the
97 miles is covered in 2\ hours ; in steam-
train days it took nearly four. All-electric
trains run to Lithgow, where steam-
locomotives take up the running to points
farther west. The Railway Department
claims that electrification will save nearly
£1 million a year, the greatest economies
being in goods haulage over the Blue
Mountains. But Lithgow motorists are
finding it ia better —and quicker— to leave
the car in the garage and go to the city
by train. The 80 miles to Parramatta
can be carved-out in good time, they say,
but inner-metropolitan traffic holds them
up so much that the train does a speedier
job.
• •
“E. &O. E.”: Tasmanian football-pools
(B. 3/7/’57)? In addition to the usual
tongue-in-cheek excuse that these will
help the hospitals, Dr. Turnbull, Treasurer
and Minister for Health, says that
“football-pools require some skill.” So
do lock-picking, forgery and many other
occupations fed by the desire for easy
money.
• •
“In the ACT”: Japanese diplomats
and traders are showing keenest interest
in an area which should also attract Aus-
tralian interest but doesn’t —the republics
of Central and South America. Relations
between Japan and Brazil have been close
for many years, and many Japanese have
emigrated to Brazil. The latest develop-
ment is a Japanese survey of Brazilian
ocean fisheries in the Atlantic on an
unprecedented scale, to begin in Decem-
ber. At the same time efforts are being
made to extend relations with Panama
and the Caribbean countries. Japan
appointed a special Ambassador to attend
the inauguration ceremonies of the new
President of Panama, and is undertaking
an active drive in that republic and the
adjoining area.
• •
“Poor Mug”: As tax is grabbed in
advance, by pay-deductions or the in-
fliction of “provisional tax,” why can’t
the Government be compelled to pay
interest on it? A charge of 10 per cent.,
no less, is made on late payment of tax.
It is about time the bloke who pays was
given some return and some encourage-
ment. And why, as few people ever
handle the money taken from them as
tax, isn’t the total tax itself a legitimate
deduction on a tax-return? As it is we
are taxed on our tax.


children were products of horror comics
and gangster films, according to the
investigating police ; and there are many
cases in the children’s courts of some-
what lesser cruelties of which citizens hear
nothing because children’s courts are
closed to the press.
The comics frequently get past the
Customs Department as micro-films. In
some form or another the comic-copy gets
through perhaps two-hundred times
before one copy is detected; the
purveyors and their agents then find
another lurk.
Country-party candidate May won the
Gippsland by-election for the Vic. Legis-
lative Council which Bolte’s L.C.P. had
hoped to take from the Cockies. Primary
figures were: May (C.P.), 22,553 ;
Gregory (A.L.P.), 15,668 ; Gerrand
(L.C.P.), 13,069 ; Hansen (D.L.P.), 6996.
Although the D.L.P. man tailed the field
he polled over 30 per cent, of the .com-
bined Labor vote. On that basis Cain
Labor would have Buckley’s chance of
winning an Assembly election —and there's
to be one within the next 12 months.
• •
A.N.A. hasn’t yet decided whether to
chance it with Ansett.
• •
The Philippines is the latest country to
assert itself against U.S. practices which
Washington would dub “colonialism” if
practised by Britain. It has demanded the
return of two American Servicemen who
were hurriedly sent out of the country
when threatened with trial for breaches
of Philippine law.
• •
Policies aren’t likely to count very
much in the Queensland election, but
for all that, tradition demands policies
and policy-speeches. All four leaders
have now stated their cases.
At Maroochydore Country-party and
Opposition-leader Nicklin pledged his
party to a policy of decentralisation and
development. It was rather a new-broom
policy and included promises to over-
haul the machinery of government, have
a thorough investigation of the State’s
transport-system, especially the railways,
and to encourage investment in new
industries. Other moves by a Nicklin
Government would include the appoint-
ment of a Minister for Development, a
review of land-tax and succession duties;
the resumption of soldier-settlement and
a vigorous roads policy.
• •
Nicklin naturally concentrated more
on the rural policy of the Liberal-
Country-party alliance. Liberal leader
Morris, speaking at Brisbane City Hall
the following night, gave the rest of the
programme. Rebutting charges that the
Opposition sought a longer working-week,
he affirmed his support of the 40-hour
week, promised to strengthen the
authority of the State Industrial Court
and to bring down a law for court-
controlled secret ballots on the lines
of the Federal system. Hospital services,
he said, would remain free and would be
improved; expert attention would be
directed to housing and there would be
a vigorous campaign to improve the
schools position.
• •
Duggan, A.L.P. leader, also spoke at
Brisbane City Hall. He pledged his party
to three weeks’ annual leave, though he
didn’t say immediately ; said he’d look
into the possibility of establishing a State
Savings Bank; promised to set-up a
traffic commission and a legal-aid
bureau and to carry out a thorough
investigation of the Police Department.
Gair was scheduled to have his say on
Monday night.
• •
The N. S. Wales Parliamentary caucus
during the week voted “overwhelmingly”
for building the Sydney opera house—
to cost £3| million on present estimates,
which means, according to precedent,
about £2O million if the job is done by
State enterprise. Cahill hopes the
Treasury will not have to put up a “penny
more” than £lOO,OOO, and that Lord
Mayor Jensen will raise most of the
balance. He hasn't decided yet whether to
launch special lotteries to help. What
about auctioning fruit-barrow licences
for the foyer? Some Sydney aldermen
might be interested.
• •
One effect of the new trade-agreement
with Japan is that quota limitations on a
big range of goods have been lifted. Previ-
ously a merchant with a non-dollar quota
could import only 25 per cent, of hi.s
quota from Japan ; he may now spend the
lot in Tokyo if he chooses. The
Trade Department says the agreement
contains safeguards against cheap goods
which might threaten Australian industry
and that if necessary the Government
“will err on the heavy side” with emerg-
ency duties.
Some manufacturers are already crying
calamity, but it should be obvious that
we could not keep up for ever the lop-
sided export-import relationship of the
last few years. As Confucius might have
said, “All sell no buy no last velly long.”
KREMLIN WEATHER-REPORTING


#© suii YOU!
Whenever you travel, wherever you travel, there’s always a
TAA VISCOUNT flight to suit you. For your convenience,
TAA operates daily round-the-clock Viscount flights, between
all states. From as far north as Cairns, to Hobart in the south,
right across the nation to Perth in the west, you can fly TAA Viscount.
EX
More people fly Inn — the friendly woy
Reservations: TAA Booking Offices in all States or any authorised Travel Agent.
NPVSI7
PERSONAL ITEMS
CHEMICALS, ADELAIDE
TTEREWITH Felix Arthur St. Hill,
first 1.C.1.A.N.Z. manager in S.A.
Born in Tasmania 42 years ago, he never
wanted to be an enginedriver—possibly
because his father was Railways Commis-
sioner there—but otherwise he conformed
to the normal pattern of boyhood, taking
some smart slip-catches at Hutchins
School and, later, at the University of
Tasmania, where he specialised in indus-
trial chemistry for his B.Sc. He.joined
1.C.1.A.N.Z. in 1938, spent most of War II
making munitions, went to the parent
company in England in 1947 for
experience, and to New Zealand in 1951
as Technical Director. In addition to
reading and walking, he likes gardening,
which is just as well —he’s had to establish
gardens in three new houses in eight
years.
• •
Passed on at 66, John Allan Broad-
bent, very well known in Sydney. He
left the Bank of N.S.W. to join the First
A.1.F., sailed as a sergeant with the 20th
Bn., won the M.C. at Pozieres, and came
back with an ambition to grow Merino
wool; which he did, for 10 years, in the
Riverina, before taking on the job of
secretary of the Imperial Service
Club in Sydney. He was on The
Bulletin advertising staff just before
War 11, and joined the R.A.A.F. as a
flight-lieutenant in August, 1939, was
with the first squadron to go overseas,
and came back via Sumatra and Java to
become C.O. of No. 4 S.T.T. at Adelaide,
with the rank of Wing-Commander. He
was secretary of Elanora Golf Club after
the war until his retirement last year.
• •
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: During the next 10
years Port Moresby sawmiller T. Flower
will be busily harvesting some 50-million
super.-feet of prime timber from the
Brown River area, about 25 miles north
of Moresby. He is required, under the
tender just accepted by the Government,
to establish his sawmill in the area within
a year, and is limited to six-million super.-
feet in any one year. He's been interested
in the building, logging and sawmflling
industries of the Territory since 1926,
and before the last war was exporting a
lot of N.G. walnut to the U.S. He is now
working in the Mt. Lawes territorial
forest, next-door to the Brown River
permit-area.
• •
Lord Morton of Henryton, currently
tripping between Sydney and Melbourne
before he attends the convention of the
Law Council (July 15 to 21) in Melbourne,
has heard all Australian appeals to the
Privy Council since he was appointed a
Lord of Appeal in 1947. He is here, with
Lady Morton, as the guest of the council.
Tall, spare, friendly, tweedy, he had some
nice things to say about Australian
jurists and the lesser legal fry who
have appeared before him in London. He
served on the Royal Commission on
Marriage and Divorce, won the Military
Cross in War I, and is 70.
• •
lan Potter, who has become the first
Australian sharebroker to underwrite the
loan of an external Government (Fiji),
has since 1938 built-up lan Potter and
Co. into at least one of the two largest
Australian broking-houses. After the
SHARE-FLOATS, MELBOURNE
depression, when he was one of Dick
Casey's bright young men in the Federal
Treasury, he left to open his business,
taking into partnership the benign, notable
raconteur, H. A. Pitt, who had been
State Under-Treasurer, and who proved


a valuable asset to the hustling, rather
opinionated, young economist.
Potter first won national attention when
he appeared in London in 1946, spon-
sored by the Chifley Government, offering
British manufacturers capital if they
opened plants in Australia. He won a
large share of the semi-Government-loan
underwriting business after the Federal
Government raised the bond-rate and
shook other underwriters’ confidence.
He also handled more post-war con-
versions and “placements” by proprietary
cos. than any other single broker in
Australia. A handsome and distinguished
six-footer, Potter used to be a keen
yachtsman and tennis-player, and a golfer
of sorts, but lately— at 54 —he is more
interested in the theatre and art, parti-
cularly the affairs of the National Gallery
Society.
• •
Seaman-turned-cartographer Ivan Bird,
a councillor of the W.A. Historical
Society, has made and presented to the
Battye Library of W.A. History a large
and unusual map showing the sites of
hundreds of wrecks along the Westralian
coast, with a table giving particulars;
four years’ research went into the job.
Bird, who is now 64, went to sea in 1909
and swallowed the anchor in 1931. He
served as an R.N.R. Lieut.-Commander
in the Kaiser’s War, and, in 1918, was
given the freedom of the City of London
for rescue work off Mesopotamia.
• •
Keith (Mick) Shann, whose editing of
the United Nations report on Hungary
has been highly praised, particularly by
newspapermen accustomed to combing
through . interminable paragraphs of
official prose for information, is a
nephew of the Edward Shann who wrote
the Economic History of Australia: so
perhaps the clear, straightforward style
of the report, and the deft marshalling of
a massive body of facts, are not as sur-
prising as they might otherwise have been.
The Shanns altogether are a scholarly
crowd —Frank, Keith’s brother, is head-
master of Essendon Grammar (Vic.).
Keith, born in 1917 with ginger hair
(now fading), was literary dux of Trinity
Grammar, where his late father had been
headmaster, did Arts at Melbourne
University, and was one of the first gradu-
ates to go into the public service when
it was decided to take a quota each year.
He was with the Bureau of Statistics and
the Department of Labor and National
Service before R. G. Casey picked him
for the Department of External Affairs.
He became Australian Minister to the
Philippines in 1955.
• •
Died in the U.S., Australian author
Dorothy Cottrell. A victim of infantile
paralysis when she was six, she was
educated privately and also became a
student at the Royal Art Society, Sydney.
Her first book, Singing Gold, a story of
outdoor life in Queensland, appeared as
a serial in the “Ladies’ Home Journal”
and was published in America in 1929,
was reprinted twice within a month, went
into an English edition and has recently
been republished. Her next book,
Earth Battle (Tharlane in America)
was also based on pastoral life
in Queensland. A story about an Aus-
tralian terrier came out in 1936, and
another, about a kangaroo, in 1940: the
latter was published in both Australia and
America, and a film was made of it. The
Silent Reefs was published in 1952.
• •
In the early ’eighties of last century
Harold Morgan, as a boy at Sydney’s
Newington College, learned the Latin for
a sound mind in a sound body, that classic
prescription for length of days and an
honorable career. As Prior shows, and
the lawyers know, Harold Morgan was
endowed with the rich inheritance, to-
gether with a sunny disposition and a
sense of humor. Enrolled on November
30, 1889, and, with two sons (another
Harold and Alfred) as associates, he long
ago became the State’s oldest practising
solicitor, and as head of the firm is a
busy man still. Though he is approach-
ing 93 there has been no failing of
powers. He remains equal to the require-
ments of clients who seek his advice, while
occasionally sparing time for a chat with
a contemporary who, like himself, is a
member of the Pioneers’ Club.
The veteran knew all the political cele-
brities of his young manhood in Sydney,
among them Parkes and Dibbs, Barton
and Reid, and practically all those of a
LAW, SYDNEY
later vintage, notably Crick, Meagher,
Nick Willis and John Norton —sad dogs
to opponents but interesting fellows all.
He never himself figured in the
Macquarie-street House, but was chosen
Mayor of Newtown nine times.
• •
R. D. McLuckie, president of the
Brisbane Chamber of Commerce since
August, 1956, who was elected senior
COMMERCE, BRISBANE
vice-president of the Associated Chambers
of Commerce of Australia this year, is a
son of the late W. K. McLuckie, formerly
very well known in commercial, Rotary
and Masonic circles, and for many years
president of the Queensland Crippled
Children’s Society. R.D. was born in
Brisbane 51 years ago, and has lived in
the northern city all his life. He started
his business career with Dalgety’s, but
resigned in 1934 to branch out as a
manufacturers’ representative—he’s a
partner in McLuckie Bros., importers and
manufacturers’ agents, and a director
of Brisbane Supply Co. Pty., Ltd. A
better-than-average performer in several
branches of sport in his younger days—
athletics (decathlon), surfing, tennis —-
nowadays, when he can spare the time, he
likes to wet a line.
e •
“P.A.L.”: Best-known bookman in
the N.Z. trade, E. V. (Ernie) Chaffey has
been made a Fellow of the N.Z. Book-
sellers’ Association. He resigned recently
from Whitcombe and Tombs, after many
years of service as book-manager in
Christchurch, Auckland and occasion-
ally in Melbourne.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Heidelberg Militaiy Hospital, at 65, retired
Superintendent Sam Williams, Victoria's most
decorated policeman. He held the Police
Valor Badge (the Force’s highest award), Bronze
Medal and Bar, and the Military Medal.
In a road-accident in Tasmania, at 60, Harold
Bourne Watts, Australian manager of the Sun
Insurance Office.
In Sydney, Miss Clara Violet Lindrum, sister
of Walter and mother of Horace. She resumed
her maiden-name after divorcing her husband,
and Horace, the world snooker champion, took
the famous Lindrum name.
In London, at 6f>, sixth Earl Nelson, great-
great-great-nephew of Horatio Lord Nelson. He
served with the Australian forces in World War
I, and was for a time a gold-prospector in
Australia.
In Sydney, at 55, Ambrose Sylvester Tunchon,
stipendiary magistrate in Sydney and N.S.W.
country centres.
In Melbourne, at 24, after a car-accident,
Ken Smith, Collir.gwood footballer-cricketer.


ABORIGINALITIES
r T'HE rough, tough widow and her
daughter, who ran an outfit in the
wildest part of Central Queensland, hired
a jackeroo. Not seeing him around after
a week or so, a neighbor asked the dame
where he had got to. “Sacked the useless
b !” she rasped. Daughter chimed
in, “At least he was real polite.” “Polite,
yairs,” drawled Ma ; “but I don’t trust
them blanks what’s always rammin’ chairs
under y’r backside every time y’ bend at
the knees. ‘Watch ’em!’ I says. ‘Watch
’em 1 ’ ” —“W-H.P.”
* * * *
“Emel”: A man in our Victorian neck
o’ the woods, who has made a lifetime
ftudy of mallee-hens, confidently pre-
dicted to surrounding Cockydom that
early-winter rain would come on a named
date, basing his contention on past
observation that Jupiter P. opens-up on
time just three weeks after, the fowl start
home-building. J.P. didn’t let him down.
Pure fluke? Or could there be some-
thing in the hens’ meteorological re-
corders that’s denied our bureaux?
* * * *
“Fair Mac”: A tough, fleshy leaf
identifies as a member of the cactus
family the shrub known as “The Tree of
Life.” The leaf, about 4in. long and 3in.
wide, has a scalloped edge, and tiny
brown spots where the scallops meet are
the seeds. In late autumn the shrub
sheds many of these leaves while still
green, and they will remain fresh-looking
even after having lain on the ground for
weeks. The seeds germinate, and, taking
sustenance from the moisture in the leaf,
put roots down into the soil. Only when
it’s a sturdy, firmly established plant does
the seedling release its grip on the parent-
leaf.
* * * *
“Bagot”: In his Inside Africa John
Gunther claims that there’s little affinity
between the camel and its master: “I
never came across anybody who said a
camel recognised him even after months
of riding it.” But Arthur Upfield, in
Follow My Dust, tells of a camel-driver
who constantly ill-treated one member of
his team. After an absence of three years
he returned—to be scalped and pounded
to pulp by the long-memoried beast. Any
former cameleers able to testify?
* * * *
“Territorian”: It seems the pestivorous
buffalo, originally introduced as a
help in the N.T. in the early half of last
century, may prove a financial windfall.
A man from Borneo who has been visit-
ing Darwin, one Haji Mahali, says the
animals are worth £5O on the hoof in his
parts, being needed for carrying burdens,
providing meat, and acting as negotiable
securities in barter agreements. Some
half-a-million are roaming around in
northern Australia, and with the low price
of hides discouraging the pro. hunters
they are multiplying in peace and moving
southward to the possible danger of the
cattle-industry on the Barkly Tableland.
The Haji says he is going to ask his
Government to seek Canberra’s permis-
sion to ship live animals to Borneo. The
sooner we agree, and get the traffic mov-
ing, the better. What about also sending
some . . . But no —buffaloes will do for
a start.
* * * *
“Kate”: Our woodman has for com-
pany two willie-wagtails that follow him
everywhere. They hover around his head
waiting for the grubs he puts in the crown
of his hat!
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Afraid “Niiden”
will never see that ostrich-emu cross (B.
12/6/’57) because the birds don’t even
belong to the same order, the ostrich being
the only surviving member of the order
Struthioniformes, while the emu is of
the order Casuariiformes. But “Niiden,”
seeing emus and ostriches in flocks to-
gether, might be able to settle a long-
standing argument —which bird is the
swifter? I’ll back the Australian bird to
clock 10 m.p.h. faster than the African.
* * * *
“Siosal”: Mother doesn’t approve
certain aspects of the march of biological
science. “It’s all wrong,” she declared.
“They are getting their rams from stud
bulls through artificial anti-semitism.”
* * * *
“Doormat”: Half-a-million trees every
year to be distributed for planting in
Victoria is the aim of the Natural
Resources Conservation League. In the
last 10 years over a million trees have
come from the league’s nursery, most of
them given free to soldier-settlers and
for council community-plantings.
• * * *
“Kelms”: A report has come in from
Lake Camm, out near the eastern limits
of agriculture in south-western W.A.,
that banded-stilts are massing on the lake
preparatory to nesting, and that’s news to
Westralian ornithologists; to any orni-
thologists, for that matter, because these
birds are world-famous, and for years,
until 1930, a hunt for their nesting-sites
was on from Rottnest Island to the Arctic.
They have been regular visitors to Rott-
nest as far back as records go; they’re
even known as Rottnest-snipe, and with
their long red legs and barking call like
the yapping of a dog they’re the sort of
bird you can’t miss ; but towards winter
they vanish so completely that for a long
time they were regarded as summer
migrants from the Arctic, like some of
the dotterels to which they are related.
In 1930 a colony nested at Lake Grace,
in the southern district, and then it




became apparent that they’d nested in one
or two other spots in the lake-country,
but hadn't been seen by anyone who
appreciated the significance of the event.
They’ve been reported a couple of times
since then at Lake Grace, and from Lake
Callabonna (S.A.), but there’s still a lot
of guesswork about where they nested in
the intervening years. Seems certain they
normally nest well inland, in the desert-
lakes.
* * <I *
“Lyle”: There was a sequel to the
finding of gold near Roebourne in 1888
by the late James Withnell, pioneer of
gold discovery in W.A.’s north-west (B.
12/6/’57). Then 15, he and a brother
were fencing on the family-property when
he saw a crow investigating their tucker-
bag. Jimmy picked up a stone to scare
it away with, and noticed on the stone a
bright stain that wouldn’t rub off.
Suspecting gold, the pair looked -about,
and found the same stain on other stones.
The Withnells brought a selection of
them into Roebourne. There was no
doubt about it, and Colonel Angelo, the
local magistrate, hurried to his office
to telegraph the news to the Colonial
Secretary in Perth. He opened with:
“Jimmy Withnell picked up a stone to
throw at a crow,” but in his excitement
he omitted to add anything further.
Came the reply: “Did he, really! What
happened to the crow?”
* * * *
“Brick E.”: Louts, the curse of all
builders, had attacked our job over the
weekend, knocking hundreds of bricks
off “green” walls in senseless, wanton
destruction. On Monday morning we
bitterly surveyed the mess, then rang the
trump, who lodged a complaint with the
police. Three days later a police-sergeant
arrived to investigate a report that 500
bricks had been stolen. 1 assured him
that no bricks had been stolen, but we
had complained about vandalism. At
first he seemed mystified ; it didn’t tally
with the complaint. Then he took a
wake-up: the boss had reported that 500
bricks had been "knocked off.”
A FEATURE of St. Martin’s Model
Settlement at Mudgee (N.S.W.) will
be a replica of Henry Lawson’s old home
at Eurunderee, which was demolished
some years ago. Plans have been pre-
pared from old photographs, and a
supply of the old vertical hand-hewn
slabs has been donated. The foundation-
blocks were laid ©n the 90th anniversary
of Henry’s birth. St. Martin’s will pro-
vide accommodation for old-age pen-
sioners, widows and distressed persons ;
the Lawson home, when completed, will
be reserved for the use of any itinerant
improvident family who may be stranded
in the district. —“J.M.”
* *
“Maitri”: Never can I recall such a
display of autumnal pageantry as we’ve
been treated to on our Sydney North
Shore line this year. One reason is
because tree-lovers continue to plant more
and more deciduous trees —liquid-amber,
golden-elm and poplar, ash, maple,
“An' McGinty says she'll cost me very little to feed ,
'cause she's got no teeth."
sumach ; another is the season’s long spell
of warm, windless weather, which has
persuaded foliage to hang on weeks
longer than usual. Not all trees have kept
their leaves: our persimmon took just
one week to bare itself a month ago, but
the liquid-amber completed its divestment
only after two months of strenuous
shedding. Until last week the Japanese-
maples were a riot of unbelievable scarlet;
next dav there wasn't a trace of the color
left bn them, but the ground below
glowed like the molten lava I’ve witnessed
in Vesuvius. All the same, hosts of trees
(which normally would have lost their
leaves in mid-April) still flaunt myriad
banners of crimson, scarlet, gold.
’ &
* * * »
„ _
Q. Ree : Fiji-born people in mixed
communities speak not only their own
language but usually have a working
knowledge of the other two—English
and Hindi. Because of this, many
newcomers assume they understand us
better than they really do. My house-
girl, who spoke English well enough to
attempt our idioms, told me of some
foolish people: “They have lost the
screw,’’ she said, and tapped her head
significantly.
* * * *
“Noon”: We’re wary of eating at some
of the places we get to in the bush. At
one of our calls a distracted housewife
wondered if we’d take a look at the liver
of the sheep they’d killed for household
use the night before. She was wondering
if it were safe for the pet kookaburras!
* * * *
“Bottle Jaw”: When a Darling Downs
(Q.) farmer noticed a boggy patch in
the middle of his cultivation paddock he
dug down a foot or so and water began
to flow freely. The flow has increased
and is now hard to control —experts
estimate it at thousands of gallons a day
—and that when the Downs is in the
grip of one of the worst droughts for
years. Local residents credit an earth-
tremor with releasing an underground
stream,
* * * *
* ,» • • ~ x „
1 wakened 1* our d,strict
h t , H . ,• nig^lt by a stranger,
J?" ,ol t b ° w h h,S . f r , had ,
b t ' . j ?JP lm , Woo j"
Kr.agf .. tk • ’r? i be , d and
“1 hell f V '" ed
, P , * V. aS somo
d !| ,a ?“ bac , k * rom , ,he Woolbales turn-
off, and needed extensive repairs. It his
host would just drive him to the highway
he would get a lift into. Sheepville and
engage a mechanic. The grazier saw his
guest picked-up by a passing motorist and
got back to his muttons. Later that day
the Sheepville police rang to say they had
SONG OF THE FRUITGROWER
Few things in the world are sweeter
Than to lean against a rail,
Counting up your stout Merinos
Fleece by fleece and bale by bale;
But I love my orchard trees
Leafless in the snow.
Some rejoice to see their cattle
Wheeling through the dusty plain ,*
Some delight in fenceless acres
All a-sway with windy grain ;
But I love my orchard trees
When the blossoms blow.
Browns for timber which, in falling,
Shakes the hillside with its force ;
Jones’s soul is filled with rapture
When he gazes at a horse;
But I love my orchard trees
Where the cherries grow.
N.S.W.
JOHN THOMPSON.


a customer in the lock-up, and would
Woolbales, J.P., officiate? The defen-
dant, on a vagrancy charge, was his over-
night guest—no distressed motorist, but a
confidence-man with 30 previous convic-
tions, bringing the benefits of civilisation
to the outback.
Wewak (Whacko!) That Was
COME off it, Jack Lusby (B.
12/6/’57)! Trying to put Wewak
That Is on the same plane as
Wewak' That Was —before that
ancient civilisation was destroyed by
the war —is like comparing Athens
that is with Athens that was.
What, for instance, can you set against
the Sqaire of Boram of earlier days? A
host in the grand manner, he was none-
theless a stern, unbending character with
one fixed idea on the subject of temper-
ance. He would not indulge in drinking
after dinner, or countenance that practice
at the plantation house. An earlier, in-
formal meal was taken for convenience,
but the official function of dinner at
the plantation occurred some lime (any
time) after midnight. Some of the guests
might have been under the table, but the
host was always in his place at the head
of it . . .
The social clubs were Willy’s trade-store
by the beach, or any of the establish-
ments in Chinatown, where the customer
was welcome to grog-on until dawn
rattled in the streets and the milk-carts
broke above the eastern sea ; and where
the management was only too pleased to
pit its wily Oriental wits against him in
the sudden-death card-game of Jimmy
Coon, wherein fabulous stacks of New
Guinea shillings changed hands every
long night.
On one occasion some shipping hold-up
caused stocks of grog in these establish-
ments to run low, until one night an
acquaintance of mine was reduced to
drinking of the last bottle in the place, a
concoction labelled Creme de Banana.
He somehow got back to the hill, and I
went to his succor on hearing a dull crash
in his room, to find him face-downwards
on the floor. He assured me he was quite
all right; it was only that the bed was
going around the room express, too fast
for him to focus it or catch it.
“Just hold me on my feet, Cloviski old
boy . . . Next time it passes, yell ‘Now’
and let me go.”
I complied with his instructions and he
caught the bed on its next circuit; but
he swore-off for two weeks, during which
time he wore dark glasses.
Then there was the time Bill Mac-
gregor (a War I Light Horseman) was
riding past the house of Ted Allen (later
a War II casualty), when Ted called out
an invitation to come in and have a
drink. Bill said, “What’ll I do with my
horse?” Ted said, “Bring him in and let
him have a drink, too.” Like a courteous
guest, Bill led the horse up the steps and
into the house. The splendidly managed
horse politely took only a sip of beer to
be sociable and remained a well-behaved
“Swings a good right , the Duchess."
and quietly-spoken member of the party
until the visit was over.
'T'HERE was also the official whose par-
ticular aversion was natives wearing
long lap-laps. He was a tall, stately
figure, his white suit and his pukka white
tiger-shooter helmet always immaculate,
and he had the distinctive feature (unusual
in the Administration) of a neat white
mountain-goat beard.
The always-obliging tame natives
entered into the spirit of the thing—
evidently deeming it some mad whiteman
sporting-fixture—and, when hailed by
him, would never wait or come to him
as they would if hailed by any other
white official. Down they’d go on the
starting-blocks and off at their very best
speed, with the helmet, the beard and the
wildly brandished walking-stick in full
cry behind them, midday sun and all.
To see this phenomenon flashing across
the plateau at high noon was far from
being the least rewarding experience to
be had from a visit to the Wewak That
Was. The natives were fleet, and it was
not uncommon for the quarry to out-
distance his own lap-lap, thus giving him
greater freedom of movement and an
unfair advantage over the booted,
helmeted, bearded pursuer; great sport
that he was, he never altered the rules of
the game to disqualify the competitor who
shed his lap-lap ; no lap-lap was better
than a long lap-lap, in his book.
TTHERE was current at that time what
I suppose would very correctly be
called a drinking-song (though any song
at Wewak was a drinking-song), which
began “The Wewak Boys are happy, the
Wewak Boys are free.”
Spree rhymed faithfully and inevitably
with free further on.
This beery ballad —bawled allegro
furioso —provided the musical theme for
many a riotous function down below the
heights, and if there are any ghosts in
Wewak this will be their eerie form of
ghostly utterance.
There came an occasion when a nun
was seriously ill at Wirui mission (a few
miles from Wewak) and the medical-
officer invaded a bachelor social gather-
ing to collect two blood-donors. It
happened that the two belonging to the
desired blood-group were two of the
toughest-looking, beeriest-looking speci-
mens present, and they expressed mis-
givings about the collar of froth likely to
be on their blood at that moment.
The M.O. assured them that this would
be all right.
Later, a bearded American missionary,
receiving a polite inquiry as to the health
of the patient, replied that she was on
the mend, and added that the Mother
Superior knew the Sister had turned the
corner when she recovered consciousness
and immediately started to sing “The
Wewak Boys are happy . .
This, of course, was a complete exag-
geration on the part of the missionary—
and in Wewak there wasn’t really any
need ever to exaggerate.
T}AR above the kaleidoscopic scene, the
Great Tamsun looked over all with
serene benignity, stepping down to exert
his weighty and effective authority only
when that became really necessary. He
was a truly great specimen of the vanish-
ing genus empire-builder, and —though
those who did not know him well might
not suspect it —he had a polished and
delightful sense of humor. His memoirs
would surely be a best-seller if he could
be persuaded to write them . . .
But what more evidence of the weak-
ness of my learned friend’s case could be
wanted than his need to bring in a story
of the confusion of a houseboy over a
white female’s unintelligible pidgin and
pink pants? If you want pink pants, why
go to Wewak?
No, Mr. Lusby, the frontier must have
receded beyond recall, by this time. You
might as well try to say that they still
shoot from the hip in' Tombstone,
Arizona, or that the angels they still fly
high in Mobile, in Mobile. Pink pants,
indeed! On behalf of all the Wewak
Boys Who Were Happy, I say “Down
with pink pants!”
CLOVISKI MacODOACER.


0 WATER SOFTENERS
For the home
In Industry
In Hard Water Areas
• Steam Raising Plants for Hospitals.
• Manufacturing Processes.
• Manual, Semi-automatic, Fully Automatic.
• Specialised equipment for Farm and Station
Purposes.
lUAL
VATER
*
NITRITE Water Filters
Clear, crystal water for
every purpose. The home,
Institute use, Industry,
Swimming Pools, Town
Supply. Specialised equip-
ment for Farm and Station
purposes.
DEIONIZATION
This makes it possible to
obtain a water which is
the equivalent of a triple
distilled water, free from
all dissolved solids, and at
a fraction of the cost of
distillation.
W. G. UTTING & CO. PTY. LTD,.
T. & G. Building,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE. 88998 - 85097
Contractors to State and Commonwealth Governments.
Manufacturers of all types of Water Treatment
Plants, both Industrial and Domestic.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
"IF WINTER COMES..."
CJHELLEY, the poet, it was
who asked: “O wind, if
winter comes, can spring be
far behind?” And many busi-
nessmen who are at present
feeling the cold draught of
falling turnovers are asking
questions as to when the
present wintry condition of
business affairs is likely to end.
Business conditions are
partly influenced, of course, by
general economic conditions.
But sometimes a marginal
movement in general condi-
tions has a much severer
particular effect on certain
businesses.
Credit-restriction, following
the decline in our overseas
balances during 1954-55 and
1955-56, with accompanying
import-restriction, affected the
home-building (and associated)
industries, as well as importing
firms. Repercussions have
since extended throughout
industry, and it is doubtful
whether the importing industry
at present could sell anything
like its old-time quotas of
goods except on the basis of
price-displacement of locally-
manufactured goods.
After several years of expand-
ing turnovers, city retailers,
on the whole, are feeling a
pinch. Some of their turn-
over has been taken by
suburban stores, which have
attracted shoppers’ attention
more since fares on public-
transport systems were raised.
Overall, turnovers are probably
not down very much, but the
incidence of change in trading
conditions has been very dis-
concerting in some cases.
Household fittings and
domestic appliances are in
slower demand, and the effect
has been seen in the figures of
companies like General Indus-
tries and some electrical con-
cerns. Taken in with the
setback in homebuilding
(though city building activity
is at the highest point for many
years) there has been a fair
amount of shift in employ-
ment, a little more unemploy-
ment and a cutting-out of some
overtime.
This marginal movement in
employment has induced a
more cautious attitude in hire-
purchase commitments, while
making existing hire-purchase
obligations more difficult to
meet. In some cases a man has
found his overtime cutting out
at a time when his wife has
lost her job, and realised that
his own income is not enough
to meet the instalments on the
car, the fridge, the radio and
maybe the TV-set.
How long present wintry busi-
ness conditions will continue
will depend on particular busi-
nesses. It would seem that, in
the absence of severe drought
conditions, or further, steeper,
falls in export prices, business
as a whole will continue on a
fairly even keel. But the public
is likely to hesitate about buy-
ing overpriced products (like
TV-sets), and to be selective as
to what and where it will buy.
The keen businessman will
probably do all right. There
will be casualties among those
who fail to interpret the
changes in public demand, and
among those manufacturers
who are not as efficient as their
competitors.
The Sharemarket View
The sharemarket, in this
period of doubt, is favoring
shares in key industries as it
has never done before. The
big companies are attracting
by f ar the most investment
attention. B.H.P. shares last
week soared to 545., and A.C.I.
t o 68s. 9d. Other companies
which are largely the masters
D f the industry in which they
are engaged, like Davis
Gelatine, have also had strong
rises. The rest of the market
has a very ragged appearance,
It j s indeed to be hoped that
the sharemarket at present is
not an accurate reflection of
Australian economic condi-
tions. Much of the genius and
initiative in our economy
springs from the second- and
third-line companies, not to
mention the thousands of pro-
prietaries, some of which every
now and again startle the in-
vesting public by what they
have to show when lan Potter
or some other sharebroker
presents a history of their
activities to the public prepara-
tory to the making of a “place-
ment” in order to get the
smaller company the same
taxation advantages as the big
company.
This frequent changeover of
proprietary companies to
public-company status in recent
years makes nonsense of any
Treasury argument that private-
company tax is really no burden
to proprietary cos.: that its
incidence can be overcome by
paying undistributed profits
out in dividends and then
putting them back as capital.
The disadvantage under
which the proprietary company
suffers in comparison with the


mm
••
; >
tySASHT BARM
m
O R
LYSAGBT
Grain Silos
permanent
on
inent asset
your property
• Heavy gauge galvanized steel sheets
• Easily erected permanent
t • Rodent and weatherproof
’ • Hinged type bag holder
on 1000-8500 Bushel Silos
• Steel earth rings and
loading platforms are
available as extras if
required
• Prompt delivery
t I
ilos J
re J
/
EARTH RING
An earth ring, which is an extra
ring of corrugated steel sheets
filled with earth or sand, is a
most effective and economical
method of erecting an elevated
base for your Lysaght Silo. The
use of an earth ring reduces the
risk of underground seepage.
Full details are available on
request.
AUGERS
A completely new type grain
auger is now available to fill
and empty Lysaght Silos.
AND AUGERS
PRICES (F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
Write for further information to:
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. in all Capital Cities or
LYSAGHT'S WORKS PTY. LIMITED. NEWCASTLE WORKS
S26AC
big fellows is shown by the
ease with which some of Aus-
tralia’s biggest concerns are
financing (quite legitimately
and understandably) millions
of pounds’-worth of capital-
expenditure by ploughing-back
undistributed profits which
have borne tax at Bs. in the £.
A smaller proprietary
company endeavoring to do
the same (on a lesser scale, but
just as legitimately) would have
to pay an additional lOs.-in-
the-£ tax on all but a limited
amount of the retained profit.
“Not Excessively Liquid”
PERHAPS a guide can be
obtained by those seeking
to learn the future shape of
credit policy from the quarterly
survey of the A.N.Z. Bank.
It says: “Against the back-
ground of threatening drought,
it is necessary for the Aus-
tralian banking system to hus-
band its resources. In the
light of all these requirements
the liquidity of the banking
system cannot be regarded as
excessive.” One of the other
demands likely to be imposed
on liquidity mentioned by the
bank was the increased flow
of imports ; another was move-
ment in Treasury finances dur-
ing the final months of the
financial year.
Cement-share “Arbitrage”
WHICH should one do—
buy Kandos Cement
shares or sell Australian
Cement shares? Or do both of
those things?
The question arises from an
anomaly in the prices for the
shares in these associated com-
panies, pointed out in The
Bulletin on appropriate
occasions over the past 20
years, but at present more
striking than usual.
Except for minor invest-
ments and cash-holdings,
Kandos and Australian
Cement hold the same sort of
asset —a half-share each in Aus-
tralian Portland Cement Pty.
Kandos has a paid capital of
£1,403,880, Australian Cement
£1,421,649, in each case now
in £1 units. (Kandos shares
used to be 16s. counters.) The
companies are near enough,
for investment purposes, to
being identical twins, showing
almost identical profits now
that balancing dates have
been brought into fine. Both
pay 10 p.c.
But in Sydney last week
Kandos £1 shares were on offer
at 40s. In Melbourne Aus-
The Bulletin, July 10, 1957
tralian Cement £1 shares were
being bought at 475. There has
been a similar discrepancy in
the market for some time.
Unless there i s some
remarkably well - concealed
difference between these
almost-identical twins invisible
to the ordinary investment eye,
then Kandos shares are a mile
better buying at the moment
than are Australian Cement
shares.
Timbrol’s Merger
r T'HE merger arrangement
A between Union Carbide
Corporation, of the U.S.A.,
and Timbrol, Ltd., of Sydney,
was not on terms which Aus-
tralian sharemarkets immedi-
ately appreciated. On rumors
of the proposal Timbrol £1
shares jumped from a “low”
of 395. 6d. this year to 50s.
last week. On announcement
of the actual terms, they fell
back to 445. 6a., then recovered
to 48s.
Union Carbide operates at
present in Australia only
through a group of subsidiaries,
the principal of which is
Eveready (Aust.), Ltd., makers
of dry-cell batteries. The group
earned profits of £287,651 in
Australia last year, compared
with Timbrol’s £117,503 con-
solidated earnings in Australia
and N.Z.
The Union Carbide offer is
for the two interests to merge
on a 60-40 basis (Timbrol to
have the smaller holding).
J. G, Peake, chairman and
g.m. of Timbrol, in recom-
mending the merger, said that
the new co., Union Carbide
(Aust.), Ltd., would have free
access to modern techniques
developed by the U.S. company.
That, in these days of spec-
tacular (and highly competitive)
chemical research, is most
important.
Exports £995 Million
AUSTRALIAN exports for
1956-57 just missed reach-
ing the £lOOO million. As it
was, they were still a record
figure at £994.9 million, beating
by £13.1 million the £981.8
million of 1950-51, when wool
was at its highest and wheat
and other exports were also
high in a sellers’ nTarket.
The export boom of 1950-51
preceded the slump of the
following year, when credit-
restriction was accompanied by
a fall in export prices all over
the world.
The present record exports
have been achieved during a
period in which credit-restric-
tion is already in force, and
has been so for over 18 months.
Imports are also restricted,
recently on a somewhat easier
sca^e -
Higher production of wool,
accompanied by better prices,
was the chief single factor in
last year’s record exports ; but
towards the end of the season
there was a small decline in
wool prices, and dry conditions
in many parts of Australia
raise queries as to the quality
and quantity of the 1957-58
clip.
Exports of B.H.P. iron and
steel were a surprise factor in
last year s exports.
Recently non-ferrous metal
prices have fallen, as well as
overseas markets for meat and
dairy produce.
The favorable trade-balance
for the year just closed was
£276 million, compared with
a debit of £32 million in the
preceding year and a deficit of
£69 million in 1954-55. lm-
ports for last year were £719
million.
It is not officially considered
that Australia’s reserves of
overseas currency are sufficient
yet to warrant widespread
easing of import-restrictions.
’Wales Hire-purchase Link
YY7HEN the Bank of N.S.W.
” formed the B.N.S.W.
Savings Bank many people
thought that Yhat would be as
far as it would go in trimming
its sails to new competition in
the world of banking and
finance. But it has now
followed other banks into the
hire-purchase field by acquiring


INTEREST PAYMENTS
ON THIS OUTSTANDING
INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITY
ARE GUARANTEED
BY THE
STANDARD INSURANCE
LITHGOW
WOOLLEN MILLS
LIMITED
£250,000
CENTENARY DEBENTURE ISSUE!
APPLICATIONS ARE INVITED FOR
FIRST MORTGAGE
REGISTERED
DEBENTURES
SECURED BY
ASSETS IN EXCESS OF £500,000
5 YEAR
TERM at
jFfaefe
PHONE 8X1603, BXII7O FOB FURTHER INFORMATION
a SEND THIS COUPON FOR PROSPECTUS g
To: H. & S. Credits Pty. Ltd., 163 Clarence St., Sydney.
Please send me a copy of the Lithgow Woollen Mills Ltd.
prospectus which, I understand, places me under no
obligation.
MY NAME IS
ADDRESS
a 40 p.c. interest in Australian
Guarantee Corporation, one of
the solidest of the terms-finance
concerns.
The ’Wales has taken-up
2,490,000 £1 ords. at a premium
of 12s. 6d. each in the A.G.C.
The £4,046,250 involved has
been used in “permanent reduc-
tion of the corporation’s bank-
overdraft and limits.” The
issue thus will not provide addi-
tional lending-money to the
A.G.C. On the other hand,
the amount provided by the
’Wales will not restrict it in its
usual trading activities, and it
has simply turned one
customer’s overdraft into a
capital item,
The deal has been well
received by shareholders in
both institutions. ’Wales shares
went to £36 10s. before settling
at £36 7s. 6d. A.G.C. rose to
465. 6d., 14s. a share above the
figure paid by the Wales.
_. -
Hough Range Wo. 1U
I From ° wenJ
A S anticipated here, Rough
Range No. 10 bore has
pierced the Birdrong sandstone
without encountering com-
mercial quantities of petro-
leum.
The Birdrong was found at
a depth of 3659 ft., which is
some 55ft. lower than when
it was met with in Rough
Range 1 and la, assuming that
the respective derrick-floors
(from which the depths are
measured) are at approximately
the same height above sea-
level. In any case, the top of
the Birdrong horizon is struc-
turally quite definitely below
its elevation in Rough Range 1.
In Rough Range No. 3
about 3000 ft. north-east of No.
1 the Birdrong sand was
struck at 3731 ft., which was a
drop of about 125 ft. from No.
1 well. The pro rata drop to
No. 10 well from No. 1 (again
assuming that the derrick-floor
elevations were approximately
the same), a quarter of' the
distance of No. 3 away, should,
therefore, have been about 30ft.
only.
Even as they stand, without
correction for differences in
derrick-floor heights (which
useful information is never
made available in Wapet's
press-releases), the figures are
sufficient to prove the falsity of
the conception of the local
structure as illustrated in
certain Sunday-paper maps.
I doubt if these maps were
directly inspired by Wapet—
they were certainly not issued
by the company as a routine
thing.
More Questions
[From L.. Owen]
TN contrast to anonymous
voices over the phone, it
is a pleasure to receive signed
letters asking for information,
even when the inclusion of a
stamped and addressed envelope
for the reply has been over-
looked.
Some letters merely ask for
tips as to how to obtain quick
profits on the oil-share market.
To such inquirers I would
point out that I never give
advice on buying oil-shares. In
any case, the market reaction to
good or bad news from the
oilfields is usually so illogical
that any rise or fall is un-
predictable by careful analysis.
The main factor is controlled
by the Go'd of Chance, so it is
cheaper, anyway, to buy a
lottery-ticket.
One correspondent asks me
why Wapet has only recently
accepted the Rough Range oil-
manifestation as a seepage up
a fault, and adds:
Surely the characteristics of the
oil must have meant the same thing
to their experts as it did to you
....that it was migratory, but
hoped that a lot had accumulated.
My own impression, from
several talks with Wapet experts
in 1954, was that they refused
to consider the Rough Range
oil as migratory. As a counter
to that hypothesis, they pointed
out that Sumatran crude had
similar characteristics, dis-
allowing the fact that I was
only one of many geologists
with long field experience who
claimed that Sumatran oil was
an example in which migration
had achieved commercial
dimensions. No statement has
been issued which indicates that
Wapet accepts Rough Range
oil as “a seepage up a fault/’
What it does now allow is that
the Rough Range structure is
faulted and that a small oil
“pool” has accumulated against
the fault. This is not equivalent
to admitting that the petroleum
migrated up the fault.
Another question:
Why is Wapet (which is fairly big-
time) still testing the Birdrong sand?
Do you think that they will drill for
a fault between the two Ranges?
It seems obvious that Wapet
still hopes to produce some-
thing of value from the Bird-
rong horizon. A recent release
states that a hydrodynamic-
survey party is to operate ih a
300-mile stretch of country
from the Shark Bay area north-
wards. It will study all wells
reaching the Birdrong—some of
which were sunk over 70 years
ago—and will map the water-
table contours (including, where
the bore is flowing, the height
above sea-level which the water
would reach). It will also deter-
mine—in my opinion essential
—the density and salinity of the
bore waters. I trust, also, that
these waters will be completely,
analysed. The pity is that this
survey was not undertaken
when the geological work was
in the reconnaissance stage.
Whether Wapet intends to
define the hade and strike of a
fault (or fault-zone) running
between Rough Range and
Cape Range, I have no
information, but I’d like to
have a hand in the location of
these structure-wells, as it is
patent that my conception
differs widely from anything
which Wapet has published—
either directly or indirectly.
Custom Credit Corp.
It took only five days this
time for Custom Credit
Corporation to present its
accounts. The books closed on
June 30 (Sunday). On Friday
the figures were published.


"If has all mod. cons., in a good area, and I bought it for a song!”


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATER
'MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Amelia Goes to the Ball”
This one-act opera, produced
by Alan Seymour for the
Sydney Opera Group at the
Con., is in the same modern
idiom as Gian-Carlo Menotti’s
other two operas (“The Consul”
and “The Medium”) heard here
in recent years, but whereas
those two were tragedies with a
strong thread of irony running
through them, “Amelia” is a
joyous comedy—also with an
ironic touch..
The sharpest accent is on
character (the composer is his
own librettist), and although
Menotti’s music is not dis-
tinguished for its melodic con-
tent —at times it is almost
unmusical—it is uncannily apt
as applying to both situation
and character.
Amelia, a bird-brain of a
woman, is determined to go to
a ball; her husband is equally
he is not going to
take hef. He dashes out after
the barney au?«t it, returning
to find her lover with her. The
cuckold eventually accepts this
situation with more compla-
Eefies than his spouse deems
proper, "and - she ragefully
crowns him with a fIovTST-pat,
When the presentable police-
chief arrives to disperse the
crowd of rubber - necking
neighbors and to probe the
mayhem, the wife double-
crosses her lover by charging
him with robbery with violence.
Hubby goes out feet-first on a
stretcher; lover departs in
handcuffs ; and Amelia goes to
the ball with the gallant p.-c.
This little puffball of a plot
was blown along at good pace
and with a deal of exuberance.
Valerie Ryan was a spiritedly
exasperating Amelia, and she
included in some good
soprano-singing a well-judged
leap to a very high note on the
half-voice, and a well-meshed
duet with mezzo-contralto
Mary Blake, who was her
friend and confidante.
Capital comedy was supplied
by John Heffernan, as the
brassily-bold lover (though his
tenor lacked quality and
weight), and by John Brosnan,
as the slyly gay police-chief,
his resonant and powerful bass
being of excellent timbre. Ross
Whatson was rather too stagey
as the husband, but he used a
good baritone with style.
The Sydney Ballet Group
provided the first half of the
programme with the second act
of “Casse Noisette,” danced
rather short on technical assur-
ance but with a feeling for the
charm and restrained gaiety of
Tschaikowsky’s music. There
were also “Etude,” a short
ballet in the symbolic idiom,
with choreography by Joan
Halliday to portion of Cesar
Franck’s “Symphonic Studies” ;
and “The Hypnotist,” a
cleverly-devised skit in which
a hypnotist, after having put
all his stage-subjects through
the hoop, is himself hypnotised
by the last one.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Les Oiseaux de Lune”
The University of Sydney
this year began its International'
Drama Festival with an entree
from the Department of
French: the first Australian
presentation of Marcel Ayme’s
hlodcfp cpmedy, “Les Oiseaux
de Lune.”
Modern, perhaps, but no
dernier cri in comic situation*
Ayme’s 'C eme d y revolves
around the newly-discovered
ability of a precipitate young
man (Valentin: devotee of
Jules Verne and the Countess
de Segur, and son-in-law of a
coaching-college director, M.
Chabert) to change people into
birds. Since he is in love with
Chabert’s secretary, Silvie, he
begins simply by using this
ability on her other admirers.
But when he exercises the
power to other ends and a cat
eats one of the birds (sus-
pected to be Madame Chabert),
and police-inspectors begin
investigations, the comedy
warms.
The climax is reached when
the scorecard metamorphose
reads: 24 policemen, 17
teachers and 295 parents, with
hordes of pupils willing to
undergo the change in an
endeavor to dodge work. And
here it lulls to a conclusion
when, with the changing of the
moon, Valentin’s powers
decline, and his subjects appear
again as humans, in the process
of getting dressed —one, a
policeman, in a barrel.
If this is fantasy approaching
farce, it is farce applied with
a delicate trowel. While
another playwright might have
conceived such a situation only
in the light of an ulterior
political or sociological motive,
Ayme has let his fantasy
develop along the lines of pure
comedy, the effect a genuine
timbre frangais ; and where an
English author, having created
the situation, might have
grovelled and minced to extract
something more than an “Oh,
dear” from his perplexed
characters, Ayme, through a
reliance on the Frenchman’s
semi-acceptance of the ridicu-
lous, has been able to preen his
fantasy with quaint colorations
of wit.
Much of the weight of the
University production fell on
the shoulders of Antoine
Denat, playing Chabert, and his
performance was estimable. His
expressive gestures and flurried
then reconciled bewilderment
were nicely timed.. Unfortu-
nately, though, the rest of the
cast found it beyond them to
keep the pace that he tried
hard to dictate, so (hat he was
often allowed, or rather forced,
to dominate scenes in which
he should have been no more
than a moving part in a tear-
away turmoil.
David Rossell’s Valentin was
disappointing: one would have
preferred a Valentin i*ore
diabolically pleased with his
results, rather than a character
inclined to the profond et
reveur. Of the rest, Julie
Keirath (as Valentin’s wife,
Elisa) was jolie but unrespon-
sive ,' Yola Glass (Silvie) was—
sr4 the F.Tqch must have a
better word for- itr— seductive,
perhaps, but even less rcspQn-
sive to the pace of the comedy ;
Kenneth Dutton (Martinon, a
pupil) at least sensed, and tried
to keep, the pace ; and John
Beeston was an entertaining
L’lnspecteur-General, both in
and out of the barrel. The
budgerigar,- however, who
played Madame Chabert en
oiseau,, chirruped so sweetly
that it almost stole the show.
♦♦♦
“The Willow Pattern Plate”
This play for children is a
combination of wit, prettiness,
fun and charm. Owen Wein-
gott, who is “not so good at
being bad as a bad man ought
to be,” John Parker as Chang,
the young lover, Betty Ben-
field as a beauteous villainess
with a fluty voice, John Bluthal,
“not a cabbage, but a rniddle-
aged mandarin,” Leon Thau
and Rhonny Gabriel, respon-
sible for most of the knock-
about fun so dear to children,
and Maree Austin as the
mandarin’s daughter, all do
very well.
The music by Dot Mendoza
is appropriate and lively and
the costumes cleverly blended
in tones of blue. The small
stage and the unimaginative
lighting rob the play of some
of its magic, and the two
immortal pigeons fail to make
their appearance, but on the
whole it is a delightful produc-
tion.
At Sydney’s Phillip - street
Theatre.
❖ ❖ ❖
Schubertiad
Schubert’s first great song-
cycle, “Die Schone Mullerin,”
is not often heard in its
entirety, still less often sung
by a tenor. The two rarities
were combined in the N.S.W.
Schubert Society’s concert in
which Max Worthley was the
singer and Vivienne Tuck the
accompanist.
Muller’s poems are no more
than gentle sentimentality, the
outpourings of a miller’s love-
sick apprentice who is moved
from the wildest station to the
deepest gloom as his amatory
fortunes sway, until, a green-
clad hunter supplanting him
in the damsel’s affections, he
seeks surcease from the pains of
calf-love at the bottom of
the mill-stream. Schubert’s
inspired settings transmogrified
these artless lines into songs
of acteptable sentiment, and
the bucolic scene, with its
chattering brooks and its
racing millwheels, is conjured
with unerring touch in both
melody and accompaniment.
Worthley’s good - quality,
well-controlled lyric tenor, to
Waivh Jhe can impart warm
expression, ~p?sVed admir-
able for these 20 songsTf
and Miss Tuck’s work at the
piano was alert and sympa-
thetic.
❖ ❖ *t*
“Our Town”
Thornton Wilder’s allegory
on life and death in a small
American town seems a little
dated at this moment, but, a
milestone in its time, it is
always worth seeing, and the
Genesians’ production is
stylish and controlled. Out-
standing in a cast that is
generally good (and good-look-
ing too) is Marlene Horsell,
who gives a moving perform-
ance as Emily. Evelyn Wood
has done an effective job of
producing, though it is a


\
I
The CLOTHES
that put you on top
of the world
That’s exactly what a Stamina Suit does for you. It
puts you right up there on that well-dressed level where
a man feels at his best.
Only a finely tailored suit will do that for you a
Stamina Suit. The Stamina organisation takes infinite
pains to ensure that every garment has that “ hand
tailored” look for which the brand has become so
famous.
What’s the secret? What are the ingredients, the formula?
Top quality cloth that’s where it begins Crusader
pure wool cloth, of course, plus the pure craftsmanship
of long-experienced tailors. It adds up to Stamina.
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
paradox that the absence of
props and scenery as “un-
essential” has resulted in an
excessive amount of irritating
and distracting mime.
Artbursts
Flower- and bird-paintings
by Eugenie La Gerche are up
for inspection at the Athenaeum
Gallery in Melbourne. Painted
in isolation from their environ-
ment they have a charm of their
own —like good fashion-plates
printed on white paper. They
only look stiff and unconsidered
when an attempt is made to
relate them to surroundings of
some sort, like an expanse of
sea and land, or a drawing-
room.
Films
“Heaven Knows,
Mr. Allison”
Based on the novel by the
late Charles Shaw of The
Bulletin, this 20th Century
Fox production generally
follows each twist and turn of
the story ; director John
Huston has got it all con-
vincingly on to celluloid, and
under his guidance the players
bring the characters to vivid
life.
also had a hand
in writing the screen-play, had
some considerable problems.
For all but about seven of
the film’s 107 minutes running-
time he has only two characters
before the cameras, their
dialogue one of the sparest
ever written and a lot of it
confined to “Yes, Ma’ams” and
“No, Ma’ams,” from Allison
the Marine, and equally
staccato and formal lines from
Sister Angela, the nun who
is marooned on the island with
him. He also had to skate
delicately around a touchy basic
set-up and make the most of
opportunities for tension and
characterisation.
He has managed these things
very well, and the tensions
stretch like the strings of a
concert-grand. The film opens
suspensefully as the Marine
drifts ashore in his rubber raft
not knowing whether or not
the silent jungle is stiff with
Jap troops, and it continues in
similar vein when the enemy
does occupy the island and the
Marine and the nun have to
take to cave-life . . . when,
raiding a Jap food-storeroom
at night, he is trapped while a


couple of enemy soldiers dally
there . . . when he stabs the Jap
who comes on him as he lifts
a couple of blankets for the
sick nun . . . and when finally,
during the bombardment of
the island by his own corps,
he spikes the Jap guns.
The two characters are
drawn with insight and clarity,
Robert Mitchum is Allison to
the life—tough, resourceful,
virile, inherently chivalrous,
groping for self-expression, and
coming to understand some-
thing of the nun’s strong faith
and unswerving determination.
Deborah Kerr, too, scores
well in the difficult part of
Sister Angela, her best effects
gained (as with Mitchum) by
underplaying. Projecting an
easy dignity and a serene con-
viction that her nun’s habit is
sufficient buckler against
anything untoward that might
come from either the Marine
or the enemy, she goes right to
the core of Charles Shaws
character.
And there is charm and
matureness in the gaily-turned
little jig she does with Allison
in their enormous relief to see
the Japs departing the island.
The small Pacific island on
which the film is set appears
to be exactly what Shaw
visualised, and the photo-
graphy, in De Luxe color and
C'inemaScope, does full justice
to the tropical setting.
Starting tomorrow (Thurs-
day) at Sydney Regent.
* ❖ ❖
Film Festival
The sixth Melbourne Film
Festival, held at the Uni-
versity’s Union Theatre, has
ended its international banquet
of 100 dishes from 30 countries,
and a dazed critic, stuffed with
an astounding variety of sauces,
condiments, seasonings and
hors d’oeuvres from Hungary,
Mexico, Togoland, Poland, the
U.S.S.R., Britain and Australia,
is faced with the necessity of
making judgments without
prejudice—which is about as
impossible as having an
unprejudiced opinion about
flying-saucers.
Take Sergei Youtkevitch’s
rendering of Shakspeare’s
“Othello” in rich Sovietcolor.
Youtke frees the Moor from
the traditional stage shackles
and sends him abroad fighting
the enemies of Venice and per-
forming in actual fact the
heroic exploits which
Shakspeare left to Desdemona’s
imagination. This may have
been a gain in one direction,
but it had the unfortunate effect
for the present commentator of
completely denaturing
Shakspeare’s poetry, so that his
words (which came in perfect
English from the lips of the
Russian actors) lost all their
magic and sounded as irrelevant
as a guide-lecturer’s description
of a Rembrandt painting.
A different phenomenon was
observable in “Lhidercurrent,”
a modern Japanese film on the
universal problem of the hus-
band, the wife and the girl-
friend, and the inability of all
parties to reconcile their tradi-
tional beliefs with their several
feelings. The husband is a
young university professor
engaged on research into the
Scarlet fly, whatever that is ;
the wife is the traditional
Japanese home-builder and
family-minder ; the girl-friend
is what is described in Western
'parlance as a career-girl.
The wife dies and the girl
renounces her love for the pro-
fessor for precisely the same
reasons as Helene did hers for
Rene in Anatole France’s
Jocasta. Although the plot
could have been lifted from
any one of a dozen Hollywood
examples and is worked out in
a curious mixture of Western
and Japanese conventions, the
film has a more living quality
than most of the films from
other countries.
The dullest of them was “On
the Bowery,” a camera explora-
tion by three young Americans
of the famous street of drunks,
derelicts and no-hopers. As is
the way with documentaries, it
gives the facts without the
feelings.
Australian contributions
were documentaries, the best of
them being “The Penguins of
Macquarie Island.”
+:♦ ❖
Other Sydney Releases
“Joe Butterfly” (Sydney
Lyceum): Bright nonsense
concerning the shifts that the
staff of a U.S. Army magazine
are put to to get the rag out on
deadline in immediate post-
war Tokyo. The accent is on
the accommodation problem
and the duck-shoving by
various units; there is a price-
less bit of work by Burgess
Meredith as a Jap con.-man
and blackmarketeer, and some
good humor from Fred Clarke
as a harassed colonel in the
process of raising a crop of
stomach-ulcers.
* * *
“Lost” (Sydney Embassy) :|
Below-standard British film
about a kidnapped child, with
red-herrings dragged across
the trail every so often to spin-
out the unlikely doings.
* * *
“Back From Eternity”
(Sydney Esquire): The plane-
load of people who survive a
crash-landing in a South
American jungle are characters
of wondrous artificiality, and
the action is clogged-up by
Anita Ekburg drifting with
deliberation and sultriness
through it. Robert Ryan, as
the pilot-with-a-grudge, is
better than the rest.
Australia’s Forgotten Dramatist
By ARUNDEL DENE
T ONDON’S critics are wide
■*“' of the mark when they
acclaim Ray Lawler as the first
Australian playwright to
achieve a success in the great
metropolis (with his “Summer
of the Seventeenth Doll”).
That honor belongs to one
originally described by Bernard
Shaw as a “rough-and-ready
playwright with the imagina-
tion of a bushranger—but it is
imagination and it suffices.”
This was Haddon Chambers,
Whose first effort, “Captain
Swift,” was produced with-
astonishing success by Beer-
bohm Tree at the Haymarket
Theatre.
Haddon Chambers left
N.S.W. for the Old Country
when a very young man. He
had rooms over a Bayswater
milk-shcp and made a pre-
carious living by writing
magazine-stories. But he moved
in many circles and, at a
chance meeting in Panton-
street, Tree said casually,
“Ever thought of writing a play
for me?” A stock remark, it
was taken seriously ; “No, but
I will.”
There were no agents for
dramatists in those days
(1888), and to make a contract,
or even a contact, with a
theatrical producer was a pro-
blem for uncertified authors,
When he finally cornered the
great actor - manager and
insisted on reading Captain
Swift,” Tree was asleep at the
end of the second act. Seeking
restorative treatment, Tree
left for a Turkish bath. But,
according to Hesketh Pearson,
“the man who had rounded up
refractory cattle in Australian
prairies was not to be defied by
a London actor.” Chambers
followed Tree to the Turkish
bath and finished reading the
MS. in the hot-room.
The play was concerned with
an ex-bushranger making good
—converted from evil by stay-
ing in a nice English home
where people maintained old-
fashioned virtues. Rehearsals
were conducted amid a choras
of argument. One episode
survives.
Robert Pateman, playing a
butler’s part, nervously asked
the manager: “Mr. Tree, must
I say that word?”
“What word’s worrying
you?”
“Must I say bastard?”
“Well, what would you
suggest instead?”
“Love-child.”
With some amusement Tree
said he thought that the
stronger epithet would be more
appropriate to a vindictive
man-servant.
The play was excellently
staged, and to emphasise the
moral of the piece all the pro-
grammes and advertisements
were headed by a Shakspearian
quotation:
1^74- ul OfBOOd ‘
Haddon Chambers continued
to write plays until 1918, his
successes including “The Idler,”
“The Saving Grace,” and “The
Awakening.” He deserted the
melodramatic writing of
“Captain Swift” for comedies
°f manners, written with a light
an d graceful touch. His finest
P^ a Y w as certainly “The
Tyranny of Tears,” a delight-
comedy, with underlying
seriousness, about the plight of
a charming, good-natured hus-
and whose wife submerges
mm by dissolving into tears
to her way.
, Chambers obviously
developed considerably from
the “ r °ugh-and-ready” play-
WHght described by Shaw.
vf?nP n cr h* c A. B.
Walkley chief of his craft and
° f P r ? casians ’. compared
inferentially with
Addison, whose prose pro-
lessors revere,
a ~n ® ,P. y ’ ‘Passers
** y ’ 1S s 1 " e d in reserve by
repertory and amateur
s ? ciet l es ’ was delightfully
played by Irene Vanbrugh,
w *\° VJSlt ed Australia,
an P d du Maurier. Irene
Said the play gave Gerald
won derful opportunity for his
v . arymg , tonal . mfle . ctl °ns. “A
sincere play, she said, and that
was a sinc f re comment from
°, ne , wp ayed in several of
v* 6 bnPla ” t ’ brittle, tongue-in-
*he " ch f e J_ c ® medles
Somerset Maugham.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
A HIGHLY successful term, in which
improved local and export prices for
sugar contributed to a 17 p.c. lift in
earnings, preceded last month’s announce-
ment by C.S.R. that the co. would make
a one-for-three bonus-issue financed
partly from share-premiums and partly
by revaluation of Fijian assets. Earlier
in the century bonus-issues by C.S.R.
were a comparatively common occur-
rence, but 23 years have passed since
shareholders last received anything in the
way of gift-scrip.
Reflecting the rapid growth and pros-
perity of the co., previous handouts were
on a generous scale, adding almost £lO
million to paid capital between 1907 and
1934. After the 1934 (one-for-one) issue
the div.-rate was dropped from p.c. to
6| p.c., but averaged 7.7 p.c. over the
next 10 years and 9.7 p.c. in the last
decade. The board expects an 8 p.c. div.
on the bonus-enlarged capital, as against
last term’s 10 p.c., the new rate equalling
approximately 10.6 p.c. on pre-bonus
holdings. The last cash-issue was in 1950
when, for the first time in 43 years, share-
holders were asked to contribute new
capital, 117,000 £2O ords. being offered
at £27. Paid capital, all in £2O ords., will
total £18,720,000 on completion of the
bonus-issue.
One of the largest industrial organisa-
tions in Australia, C.S.R. was formed in
1855 (13 years after Edward Knox
founded the Australian Sugar Co. from
which it developed) and for many years
the co. has refined and (as Government
appointee) marketed all but a fraction of
the country’s sugar output. In addition,
it is the sole refiner of sugar in New
Zealand, owns all of Fiji’s five sugar-
mills, seven of Australia’s 34 mills (the
latter turning-out about 20 p.c. of all
locally produced sugar), three general-
cargo vessels operating between Australia,
New Zealand and Fiji, and distilleries in
Melbourne and Sydney which produce the
bulk of the methylated spirits used in this
country, as well as excellent rum and
numerous other products.
Although sugar is the main source of
income, C.S.R. has invested
like £8 million in its building-materials
division and a 60 p.c.-owned subsidiary,
C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. The building-
materials division manufactures Cane-ite
and other wallboards, asbestos-cement
products, floor- and ceiling-tiles, building-
plaster, etc., and controls asbestos and
gypsum mines. The chemical offshoot
produces a large range of industrial and
pharmaceutical chemicals, supplying
Courtaulds (Aust.), Ltd. (in which the
parent has a large shareholding), with
cellulose-acetate flake used in the manu-
facture of acetate rayon. C.S.R. Chemi-
cals recently announced that, following
negotiations with the Dow Chemical Co.
of U.S.A., Styron would be added to the
list of polystyrene plastics produced by
the co. at its Sydney plant.
Australian production of raw sugar in
the 1956 season was 52,000 tons higher,
at 1,187,000 tons, than in the previous
season, despite a cyclone which caused
heavy crop-losses in some areas and
limited C.S.R.’s share of the increase to
2200 tons, v The world market-price for
sugar firmed during the year, and, when
applied to a greater volume of exports,
was a major factor behind the improve-
ment in earnings. There was less sugar
from Fiji, however, floods and unfavor-
able weather causing considerable
damage to crops, production there falling
by 28,600 tons, the co.’s total output of
raw sugar dropping by 26,400 tons:
1954. 1965. 1956.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
Australia .. .. 255,900 231,000 233,200
Fiji 133,000 163,100 134,600
Total .. .. 888,000 394,100 867,700
Sales of sugar and syrup from the five
Australian refineries last term were lower
(by volume), amounting to 485,000 tons
against 492,000 tons in the preceding year.
Sales in N.Z. were a little (700 tons)
better at 99,700 tons.
Demand for some building-materials
was lower during the term, but the value
of sales in this sector remained “much
the same.” Reports from Australian Blue
Asbestos, Ltd., mining asbestos at Wit-
tenoom, W.A., were, at last, more en-
couraging, and it is intended to step-up
production by more than 100 p.c. in the
next two years. C.S.R. Chemicals also
made good progress, turnover increasing
by 14 p.c.
It all added up to a £291,722 improve-
ment in net profit, £1,971,358, but, frus-
tratingly, earnings from investments,
subsidiaries and trading are all lumped
together in the accounts published by the
co. And, while the directors’ report men-
tions the provision for depreciation and
replacement (up £175,034 at £1,684,562),
the amount provided for taxation is not
revealed:
Tear Replaee-
Eudi d ment, etc.,
Match, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
9 p.c.
Share premiums, £273,000 2,768,393
From inner res., £3,498,514 6,266,907
1953 .. 1,866,394 1,228,500 6,404,801 11,710,311
1954 . . 1,417,943 1,268,600 6,659,144 12,807,355
12 p.c.
1955 .. 1,676,901 1,684,800 6,450,245 13,949,946
10 p.c.
1956 .. 1,679,636 1,404,000 6,726,881 15,209,992
Profit, sale vessel, pineapple cannery,
etc., £80.162 . . . . 6,806,033
1967 .. 1,971,858 1,404,000 7,373,391 16,380,751
The div., unchanged at 10 p.c., was well
covered by the earnings which represented
a return of 14 p.c. on paid capital com-
pared with 11.9, 11.2, 10.1 and 10 p.c.
in the four preceding years. An 8 p.c.
div., after the bonus-issue, would require
£1,497,600 or £473,758 less than last
term’s net earnings.
The big co. continues to expand at a
remarkable rate, the book-value of total
assets increasing by over 43 p.c. since
1952. Last term’s additions to fixed assets
amounted to £2,239,120:
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £14,040.000 £14,040,000 £14,040,000
Reserves .. 6,450.245 6,725,881 7,373,391
Depreciation re-
serves .. 13,949,946 15,209,992 16.880,751
Creditors, etc. 11,111,462 16,316,452 14,715,474
Overdraft .. - 1,483,971 725,794
Debentures .. 7,000,000 7,000,000 7,000,000
Employee de-
bentures .. 138,670 156,810 136,870
Final div. .. 1,053,000 702,000 702,000
£53,743,323 £60,635,106 £61,074,280
Refineries, mills,
etc 29,110,072 30,971,163 32,720,174
8h, P* •• -• 446,589 729,931 1,134,568
Distilleries .. 1,087,673 1,174,208 1,249.385
Premises .. 818,5 S» 382.281 392,576
Stocks.. .. 11,075,966 10,225,670 18,835,479
Book debts, etc. 6.489,176 12,506,347 7,101 987
Investments . . 4,828,868 4,593,958 4,612,194
Cash and de-
posits .. 886,894 51,648 27,917
£63,748,323 £60,635,106 £61,074,280
After a sudden jump in the previous
term, book-debts (down £5,404,360) re-
turned to a more appropriate figure,
releasing part of the funds absorbed by
the increase in stocks (up £3,609,809),
capital-expenditure and the reduction in
outside liabilities (down £1,379,095 in-
cluding final div.). The £7 million in
5 p.c. debs, more than earns its keep.
Prospects for the current term are
good. With the exception of the Bunda-
berg (Q.) district, rain has fallen over
most sugar-growing areas, and Australian
raw-sugar production is expected to rise
by 63,000 tons to 1,250,000 tons. The
mill-peaks, or quotas, of several mills
have been increased for the current season
and the co.’s mills will receive top-price
for an extra 5500 tons of raws.
The British Commonwealth Sugar
Agreement was extended for one year (to
December, 1964) last November, and the
“negotiated price” for 1957 increased
from £stg4o 15s. per ton to £stg42 3s. 4d.
Australia’s quota at this price was reduced
from 314,000 to 300,000 tons, but the
total quota under the International Sugar
Agreement, increased last year from
600,000 tons to 619,177 tons, is un-
changed. (Quotas under the latter agree-
ment are inoperative for the time being
as the world market-price for sugar
exceeds limits laid down in the
agreement.)
The f.-p. £2O ords. in C.S.R. have a net
tangible backing of £53 16s. 9d. and are
currently selling around £52, to give an
«jc-bonus price of £39, excluding
brokerage, etc., and a yield of 4.1 p.c.
from an 8 p.c. div.
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
in the less-crowded sec-
tions of Sydney appear to have been
more troubled by the swing to suburban
retailing (and trading problems gener-
ally) than their more centrally situated
competitors.
Latest of the uptown Sydney retailers
to report lower earnings, Mark Foy’s,
Ltd., trades from a large freehold
bounded by Liverpool, Castlereagh and
Elizabeth Streets. The public first
obtained an interest in the business back
in 1909, and the co. enjoyed considerable
success in the next 20 years, and, after
some difficulties in the ’thirties, in more
recent years.
However, the co. lost ground in the


1955-56 term, when the ord. div.-rate
was reduced from 15 p.c. to 124 p.c., and
last term earnings tumbled by a further
28.9 p.c., although the div.-rate was main-
tained at the lower level.
Accumulating strong reserves in pros-
perous times, Mark Foy’s has built-up a
solid financial structure, and with little
alteration to share-capital over the past
30 years a reasonably high div.-rate has
been possible, ord. divs. averaging a shade
over 12.9 p.c. in the post-war period.
Tighter financial conditions a.nd import-
restrictions slowed-down the growth in
total retail sales last year, and early in
the term the co. reported a lagging turn-
over, with traffic tangles, parking pro-
blems, high fares and sheer distance
(from new outer-suburbs) diverting
shoppers to suburban centres. Never-
theless there was an improvement in gross
earnings (up £40,346 at £1,311,426), but
expenses, including higher salaries, State
land-tax and £19,817 for depreciation
(down £6532), swallowed an extra
£79,429, to leave net profit for the year
(to February 28 last) £39,081 lower at
£95,825<
t Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£, £, £,£,£>
1951.. 212 16,374 15 p.c. = 81,056 54,782 469,771
1952.. 16,374 12* „ ~67,546 52,037 521,808
1953.111,193 16,374 10 „ ~54,037 40,782 562,590
Profit sale assets, £7OO .. .. 563,290
1954.. 16,374 124 p.c. = 67,546 49,247 612,537
Unexplained addition, £875 . . 613,412
1955.-163,867 16,374 15 p.c. = 81,054 66,439 679.851
Unexplained addition, £ 1282.. .. 681,133
1956.. 16,374 124 p.c. = 67.546 50,986 732,119
Unexplained addition, £230 .. 732,349
1957.. 95,825 16,374 12* p.c. = 67,546 11,905 744,254
The earnings, claimed after providing an
unstated amount for taxation, covered the
pref. div. and 14.7 p.c. on ord. capital,
as against 21.9, 27.5, 21.6 and 17.5 p.c.
in the four preceding years. On
shareholders’ funds the total return was a
jot over 6 p.c.
Share-capital is well supported by
reserves —both visible and invisible —fixed
assets going into the accounts on a most
conservative cost-Zess-depreciation basis,
and the stock figure appearing after de-
ducting a “very substantial” provision:
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref £272,902 £272,902 £272,902
Ord 540,367 540.367 540,367
Reserves .. .. 679,852 732,119 744,254
Overdraft .. .. 192,122 194,480 221,572
Sundry creditors* 281,282 306,630 359,705
Tax reserve .. 192,835 154,323 123,942
Final divs. .. 55,408 41,960 41,960
£2,214,828 £2,242,781 £2,304,762
Property .. .. 822,043 843,226 846,761
Plant, etc. . .. 88,000 95,000 90,000
Stocks .. .. 1,082,739 1,095,987 1,086,971
Book debts .. 202,779 189,498 258,928
Cash, etc 18,308 19,070 22,102
£2,214,828 £2,242,781 £2,304,762
* Includes internal provisions, etc.
Both debtors (up £69,430) and creditors
(£53,135) increased during the term and
there was a small improvement in
working-capital, up £13,400 at £620,562.
At the annual meeting earlier this
month the chairman told shareholders
that he expected turnover and gross
earnings to be maintained in the current
term, despite the effects of unseasonable
weather on sales of winter clothing, etc.,
but that net results would again be
adversely affected by heavy Govern-
mental charges.
Several years ago a property was pur-
chased at Parramatta, but the board is, as
yet, uncertain that the opening of branch
stores is necessary to offset what it con-
siders may well be a temporary setback.
The board is also anxious to preserve the
co.’s present financial strength, consider-
ing that an easing of credit- and import-
restrictions and some improvement in the
parking problem could stimulate trade.
The f.-p. £1 ords. have a net tangible
cover of 475. 7d. and at 395. 6d. would
return 6.3 p.c. from a 124 p.c. div.
Moulded Products (A/asia), Ltd.
T OCAL production of synthetic resins
is, according to the Department of
Trade’s latest manufacturing survey, fast
making Australia independent of over-
sea supplies of most of the materials in
common use in the plastics-moulding
industry. Development is widespread and
active not only in extensions and
expansions of existing plant but also
with planning of new projects. One of
the most important of these is the plant
being erected by Imperial Chemical Indus-
tries at Botany (N.S.W.) for the produc-
tion of polyethylene, a waterproof and
chemical-resisting plastic not at present
made in this country.
With its 17 subsidiary concerns, the
largest manufacturer of plastic goods in
Australia is Moulded Products (Aus-
tralasia), Ltd. Products include flexible
sheeting, wires and cables, upholstery-
and packaging-material, hose, agricul-
tural and chemical piping, rainwear,
laminated sheets and tubes, floor-tiles,
lighting, hardware and household articles,
brushes, toys and games.
Originally the business was an offshoot
of Dunlop Rubber. In 1936 it passed to
private hands, and, three years later, the
public was asked in. Since then paid
capital has soared from £24,502 to
£1,359,813, of which £408,125 is in 64
p.c. prefs. The last £258,237 of ord.
capital to come in (in 1956) represented
payment of the final call on the contribs.
and scrip set aside for employees and
issued to acquire a minority interest in
Flexible Plastics Pty., and the £387,101
ordinary capital of Pierwood Plastics,
Ltd., a Sydney-based injection-moulding
co. which got into difficulties a couple of
years ago. Pierwood shareholders got
one ss. share in Moulded Products for
each three of their own f.-p. ss. ords. The
prefs. weren’t in on the deal.
In terms of working assets, stock,
debtors, etc., the merger added £788,842
to group balance-sheet figures:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital—- 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £273,125- £408,125 £408,125
Ord 515,836 693,451 951,688
Reserves .. .. 474,502 679,043 1,012,987
Outside interests . 25,597 24,829 101,250
Mortgage . . .. 11,650 104,293 252,986
Debentures .. 250,000 250,000 250,000
Unsecured notes .. 251,687 251,687 251,687
Overdraft .. .. 312,642 397,491 566,760
Creditors .. .. 413,795 419,687 584,208
Tax provision .. 189,504 285,837 340,092
Final divs. .. 48,002 57,555 89,463
£2,766,640 £3,571,998 £4,809,246
Freeholds, etc. .. 320,894 542,269 867,487
Plant, etc. .. 739,240 814,836 1,095,807
Shares subsid. .. 4,147 4,147 83,131
Stocks .. .. 1,102,964 1,455,725 1,653,398
Debtors .. .. 597,819 749,531 1,078,105
Loan, etc. .. 1,576 5,490 31,318
£2,766,640 £3,571,998 £4,809,246
The rest of last year’s growth was mainly
accounted for by additions to plant and
buildings at Mentone (Vic.), where the
co. has nearly completed plans for the
consolidation of most of its manufactur-
ing, storage, distribution and administra-
tion activities in Victoria.
Excluding turnover of the new Sydney
offshoot, sales were again approximately
20 p.c. greater last term, but costs were
heavier, especially indirect charges, which
for the most part were not passed on.
So, after providing £224,244 depreciation
(up £44,699) and £201,674 tax (up £16,104)
the co. reckoned its net earnings at
£268,910 (up £46,292), after pref. divs.,
equal to a little less than 26 p.c. on
average ordinary capital as against 36.7
p.c. in 1955 and 27.9 p.c. in the preceding
term:
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
t i)i vidends-
Pref. Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 5 p.c. 14 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1952. .115,090 1600 12,656 69,251 31,583 301,922
Share premiums, £36,363 .. .. 338,285
Sale fixed assets, £544 .. .. .. 338,829
Note issue exes., £7147.. .. .. 331,682
1953. . 154,662 1600 12,656 70,825 69,581 401,263
Profit sale fixed assets, £2148 .. 403,411
1954. .156,816 1600 12,656 71,469 71,091 474,502
Profit sale fixed assets, £2603 .. .. 477,105
Share-issue expenses, £9382 .. .. 467,723
Share-premiums, £84,395 .. .. 552,118
Pref. Ord. To Re-
Dec., Profit. 6* p.c. 14 p.c. serves. Reserves.
1955. .222,618 17,248 78,445 126,925 679,043
Profit sale fixed assets, £7689 .. 680,732
Share-premiums, £60,698 .. .. 747,430
Pre - acquisition profit, Pierwood
Plastics, Ltd., £21,010 .. .. 768,440
Add difference between par-value and
cost of shares in subsid., £120,290 888,730
Unexplained addition, £12,392 .. 901,122
1956. .268,910 26,528 130,517 111,865 1,012,987
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
The £268,910 doesn’t take into account
£21,010 of Pierwood’s profit earned
before the change in ownership became
effective and sent to capital reserve, or
the other interlineations in the table.
The div. remained at 14 p.c. (including
2 p.c. bonus). Just when anything extra
can be expected will depend on what
plans the board has for further expansion.
Probably no other industry in the world
is growing as fast as plastics, and new
fields of application are still being
opened-up.
At present the f.-p. ss. ords. fetch
around 16s. on ’Change. At that price
the return on a 14 p.c. div. basis is 4.4 p.c.
The option certificates are quoted at
6s. sd. On June 30 next year option
owners will have the right to take up one
ss. ord. share at a 2s. 6d. premium for
each certificate held.
Bennett & Wood, Ltd.
\X7HEN shareholders in Bennett and
** Wood, Ltd., sold 100,000 of their
shares as a preliminary to Stock
Exchange listing towards the end of 1955
the premium demanded on the scrip
seemed a pretty stiff one. At the time
clients of the broking firm were offered
the f.-p. 10s. shares at 255. 6d. each, plus
charges. Currently they can be had for
225. 9d.
Since then the motor-industry has lost
a lot of its earlier buoyancy, due to sales-
tax increases, the credit-squeeze and other
factors, and Bennett and Wood’s dividend
for the term ended February 28 last was
reduced to 15 p.c., compared with 174
p.c. in the preceding term, the div.-rate


The KEROSINE
used by the
ANTARCTIC EXPEDITION
wm
SI
CRB
ICORAUTE
ROSINE
burns WARMER,
CLEANER, BETTER
&
KNm
* It’s easier and there’s
a saving if you bring your
own container.
You can buy * Coralite
Kerosine by the tin where
you see these pumps . . ,
SUPER
ALSO OBTAINABLE AT SELECTED STORES,
C.O.R AGENTS AND DEPOTS
Marketed by THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD, an associate of
The British Petroleum Company Ltd CSI7W
indicated in the sharebrokers*
circular.
Trading conditions during
the year were said to be diffi-
cult, but a tight grip was kept
on expenses, and the slip in net
earnings, after sending £16,750
(£21,810 in 1956) to deprecia-
tion provision and £91,000
(£86,000) to tax-provision, was
only £10,707:
Re-
Feb., Profit. f —Dividend—serves.
£ £
To stock provision, £20,000 1,062,611
1956.. 17-J p.c. = 98,462 1,110,381
To stock provision, £20,000 1,090,381
To staff fund, £20,000 . . 1,070,381
1957.. 15 p.c. = 84,396 1,121,510
On capital the £135,525 was
24.1 p.c., as against 25.9 p.c. in
1956, and an average return of
24.3 p.c. claimed in the three
years before the public became
interested.
■Good as it appears, last
term’s profit leaves out of
account £20,000 laid aside to
cover possible fluctuations in
stock values and a similar
amount for long-service leave
and superannuation (the whole
of which, however, mightn’t be
attributable to 1957). At the
end of the term visible accumu-
lations were heaped £11,129
higher, to £1,121,510. Of that
figure tax-free reserves, from
which dividends have been
paid in the last two years,
represented £139,546, equal to
24.8 p.c. of issued capital.
The business has made very
sound connections in its par-
ticular lines of trade (auto-
motive-parts and accessories,
garage - and service - station
equipment, motor-cycles and
motor-scooters, bicycles and
industrial lubrication - equip-
ment) since it began in Sydney
75 years ago ; it also manufac-
tures the well-known Speedwell
bicycle. Head-office of the co.
is at the corner of Pitt- and
Bathurst-streets and there are
nine branches scattered over
the rest of the State. In 1955,
to develop the Queensland end
of the business, a branch was
opened in Brisbane.
A contraction of £97,081 in
stocks (partly explained by the
increased provision) and
£87,176 in the overdraft and a
growth of £16,946 in debts were
the chief movements in balance-
sheet figures last year:—
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £562,636 £562,636
Reserves .. 1,110,381 1,121,511
Overdraft .. 438,905 351,729
Creditors, etc. .. 496,392 494,689
Final div. .. 49,231 42,198
£2,657,545 £2,572,763
Freeholds, lease-
holds . . .. 693.312 691,607
Plant .. .. 95,094 92,474
Stock .. .. 1,100,665 1,003,584
Debtors' .. 766,779 783,725
Cash .. .. 1,695 1,373
£2,657,545 £2,572,763
Working-capital was £15,455
stronger at £900,066. Accord-
ing to the chairman, the
difference between the book-
value of freehold properties
and the latest V.-G. valuation
is now only £38,000. On the
strength of an unofficial assess-
ment made in 1955 Bennett
and Wood wrote-up land and
buildings by £468,227 to
£688,350, £194,441 in excess of
the V.-G. Then, while still a
pty., the co. capitalised all but
that part of the surplus not
represented by the difference
(£273,786) together with cer-
tain tax-free profits, and dis-
tributed it to shareholders as a
gift. That brought paid capital
to its present figure. Other
fixed assets are conservatively
valued at cost less depreciation.
Supported by 30s. of visible
net tangibles the £1 shares, at
225. 9d.‘, return 6.6 p.c. on a
15 p.c. div. basis.
Hopkins Odium, Ltd.
Hopkins Odlum and Subsidiary.
, Dividends— Re-
D’c.,Profit. Pref. , ——Ord. serves.
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £
Tax overprovided, £8536 .. 719
’52 18.311 171 8 p.c.*= 6,000 12,859
Tax overprovided, £10,000.. 22,859
’53 31,953 1,250 8 p.c. =16,000 37,562
’54 52,693 582 10 „ „ 20,000 69,673
’55 53,406 10 „ ~20,000 103,079
’56 37,736 10 „ „ 20,000 120,815
* For period 14/8/’52 to 31/12/’52.
A T the annual meeting, earlier
in the year, shareholders in
Hopkins Odium, Ltd., belting-
manufacturer of Melbourne,
were told that the fall in their
co.’s earnings last term was not
quite as great as it would
appear from the published
accounts (and the above table).
The real drop in earnings,
according to the chairman, was
about £7670, rather than the
£15,670 shown above, when
allowance was made for the
retrospective application of in-
creased rates of co.-taxation.
The accounts, unfortunately,
give no indication of the need
for this adjustment which
would reduce earnings of the
1954-55 term by “approximately
£4000” and increase last term’s
figures by the same amount.
Turnover during the term (to
December 31, ’56) rose by
roughly 8 p.c., but higher
expenses, including those
related to a selling-campaign,
and costs pushed pre-tax earn-
ings down by £12,843 to
£70,563 after making a larger
(up £4625) provision for depre-
ciation. With the exception of
one item, prices were un-
changed. Taxes charged against
income totalled £32,827 (up
£2827), including the previous


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
C.l. Australian and Overseas Patents
and Trade Marks. — Advt.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Kapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Matrimonial Causes No. 172 of 1957.
TO JESSIE GORDON BRUCE some-
time of Boulder Western Australia and
Darwin Northern Territory married
woman.—TAKE NOTICE that your
husband JAMES JOSEPH BRUCE has
commenced an action and filed a claim
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia (Matrimonial Causes
No. 172 of 1957) for divorce on the
ground of desertion for a continuous
period of 3 years If you desire to
defend the said action you must within
40 clear days after the date of this
publication file your defence in the
Central Office of the said Supreme
Court at Perth In default of you so
doing the action may proceed and the
Court will pronounce judgment and
make orders against you in your
absence. —DATED the 28th day of June,
1957. —G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
PARKER BTASS & SCHLAM, of 15
Howard Street, Perth, Western Aus-
tralia, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. —In Divorce.
No. 2594 of 1956.
TO THOMAS AUBREY PUGH late of
Sydney (present address and occupation
unknown). TAKE NOTICE that
LORNA MARGARET PUGH has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2594 of 1956
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise
of the Court’s discretion under Section
19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899 If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 2nd day of September
1957 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from RALPH S. B.
SILLAH & MADDISON, Solicitors, of
11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. — In Divorce.
TO DOUGLAS STEVENS late of 67 Fig
Tree Road Moynt St. Thomas via
Wollongong. TAKE NOTICE that
MARY AILEEN STEVENS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1613 of 1957
on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise
of the Court’s discretion under Section
19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899 If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 10th September 1957 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from S. J. BULL, SON &
SCHMIDT, Solicitors, of 34 Martin
Place, Sydney. J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
underprovision mentioned by
the chairman, leaving net profit
at £37,736.
Formed in 1952 (as Hopkins
Odium Holdings, Ltd.), the co.
sent out an 8 p.c. div. in its
first complete term (1953), and
earnings have easily covered
the 10 p.c. divs. paid in sub-
sequent years. Last term’s net
showing equalled a return of
18.9 p.c. from paid capital
compared with 26.7, 26.1, 15.4
and 9.1 p.c. in the four preced-
ing terms.
Paid capital reached £250,000
last month, additional working-
capital coming from a £50,000
par-issue, the new scrip being
offered to shareholders on a
basis. A 10 p.c.
div. on the larger capital would
require £25,000 or £12,736 less
than the profit claimed last
term.
The business controlled by
the co. was founded in 1890 and
centres around the manufacture
of conveyor- and transmission-
belting, products carrying the
well-known Brammer and
Apex brands. An operating
subsidiary, Apex Belting Pty.,
supplies an Australia-wide
market.
Erection of- an amenities-
block and additions to office-
buildings were behind the
£40,289 increase in the book-
value (’52 valuation) of free-
holds last term, a net £7141
going into plant. The financial
structure looks sound enough,
shareholders’ funds equalling
over 70 p.c. of total assets, but
there was a decline in liquidity
over the year:
J
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1955. 1956.
Paid capital ..£200,000 £200,000
Reserves .. .. 103,079 120,815
Mortgage •• •• 28,500 27,500
Creditors .. .. 16,165 25,257
Staff fund '.. 6,125 6,078
Tax provision .. 61,178 62,478
Final div. .. 12,000 12,000
£426,047 £454,128
Freeholds .. 119,188 159,477
Plant, etc. .. 65,767 72,908
Shares ..‘ .. 1,132 1,132
Stock .. .. 147,116 150,589
Debtors .. .. 55,880 59,667
Cash, bonds .. 36,964 10,355
£426,047 £454,128
The capital-expenditure, which
may have little or no immediate
effect on earnings, helped to
reduce working-capital from
£145,492 to £114,798, holdings
of cash, etc., shrinking by
£26,609, while creditors were
waiting for an additional
£10,092.
Selling activity last term
resulted in “the opening of
many new accounts,” and the
board claims an increase of
24 p.c. in turnover during the
first two months of the current
term compared with the corre-
sponding period last year.
The f.-p. 10s. ords had a net
tangible backing of 16s. Id. on
December 31 last; the scrip
at 12s. 9d. yielding 7.8 p.c.
from a 10 p.c. distribution.
New England Antimony
/"OVERCOMING the lack of
working-capital which
forced it to suspend operations
for almost half of last term,
New England Antimony Mines,
N.L., recommenced produc-
tion in January this year to
face a water-shortage which
forced a second close-down
only four months later.
The co. was formed in Mel-
bourne towards the end of
1953, paying £51,750 (£35,000
of it in cash) to vendors of
certain plant and property, in-
cluding the Magword antimony
mine, near Guyra, N.S.W.
Plant and development costs
made-off with most of the co.’s
funds, and in 1955 Common-
wealth Mining Investments
(Aust.), Ltd., came to the rescue
with a £20,000 mortgage-loan,
later increased to £27,500 ; but
low production-figures, low
grades and insufficient water
caused further trouble, and
working-capital ran-out last
August when, as mentioned
earlier, production was sus-
pended.
To raise fresh capital, the
par value of the f.-p. ss. shares
was increased to 7s. 6d., and a
call made of Is. a share. A
450,000-gallon dam was con-
structed after the resumption
of work in an attempt to im-
prove the water-supply, but,
ironically enough, rain delayed
its completion, and subsequent
falls have been inadequate,
causing work to cease on May
24 last.
During the little over six
months’ production obtained
last term, 3020 tons of ore was
treated for 426 tons of con-
centrates and 103 tons of prill
ore. Corresponding figures in
the previous term (10 months’
work) were 3424 tons ore, 447
tons concentrates and 62 tons
prill ore. The co. doesn't
indicate the grade of the ore
handled.
The sale of 523 tons of con-
centrates and prill ore brought
in £41,096, but this was in-
sufficient to cover mining and
administrative charges, which,
with suspension and plant-
rehabilitation costs of £9022,
totalled £47,860. After allowing
for stock variations, net loss for
the year (to March 31 last)
was £6889, compared with a
deficit of £13,365 in the pre-
ceding term. Development costs
of £6981 were capitalised.
A probable offshoot to the
main vein was located early in
the term, and an examination
of areas previously worked
revealed that “much payable
ore” still remained. In recent
months two new shoots have
been located, but the only
indication of ore reserves given
in the accounts is a statement
that “it would seem that ore
reserves above the No. 2 level
are quite adequate for a mini-
mum of another year’s opera-
tions.”
Immediately prior to the
latest stoppage the rate of
throughput had passed 600 tons
a month, and the board
claimed that the profit-margin
had reached that “envisaged in
the prospectus.” (Estimates in
the prospectus gave a taxable
profit of £6200 per month from
400 tons of 20 p.c. antimony.)
At the end of the term
current assets, £10,630, ex-
ceeded current liabilities by
£6596, fixed assets (mainly
plant) were in the accounts at
£BO,lOB, and there was £20,000
owing to Commonwealth
Mining Investments under
mortgage. Mine property,
development costs and sundry
intangibles amounted to £80,442
while the p. and 1. debt stood at
£20,254.
Paid capital, £167,400, is in
7s. 6d. shares paid to 65., the
scrip selling recently at Is. 3d.
Kalgoorlie Goldfields
Petroleum, N.L.
A FTER taking a second look
at current rutile prices
the board of Kalgoorlie Gold-
fields Petroleum has decided to
abandon the co.’s options, over
rutile-bearing areas on the
South Coast of N.S.W.
At the end of last term
(October, ’56) the co. had cash
and deposits amounting to
£55,349, against liabilities of
only £125. These funds are
“being preserved until some
proposition with more prospect
of success (than the rutile ven-
ture) is forthcoming.”
Paid capital is £93,977.
Bidders are currently offering
3d. for the ss. contribs. paid
to Is. 6d. but sellers are hold-
ing out for 6d. Net current
assets at balance-date were
worth 11s. 9d. for each £1 of
paid capital.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS EDWARD FIELD late of
50 McDonald Street Erskineville.—
TAKE NOTICE that HARRIETT
LOUISE FIELD has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1726 of 1954 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
10th September 1957 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
GILBERT CHARLTON MURDOCH,
Solicitor, of 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Sulscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
"pROPOSALS of far-reaching
•*- importance to the New
Zealand economy have been
announced by the Govern-
ment, which will spend £256
million to double the country’s
power-generating capacity in
the next 13 years.
The programme provides for
the rapid development of geo-
thermal energy, the building of
a new hydroelectric station
larger than any at present in
the Southern Hemisphere, and
the laying of a Cook Strait
cable connecting the systems of
the North and South Islands.
The plan has the approval of
both the Government’s experts
and the electric-power-supply
authorities, and has been wel-
comed by industry, which has
been plagued by recurrent
power-shortages for years.
Financing the Scheme
Though the cost —nearly £2O
million a year—is huge for a
small country such as N.Z., it
is essential that it be faced. A
comprehensive, long - term
scheme, initiated now, will cer-
tainly in the end be more
economical than continued
attempts to deal with the
problem on a piecemeal
basis.
The president of the Elec-
trical Supply Authorities
Association, Mr. W. S. N.
Rennie, summed it up when
he said: “The effect of
shortages of electricity is much
more serious to our economy
than the cost of providing an
unrestricted supply.”
The knowledge that steps are
being taken to meet expanding
demand for power will enable
industry to plan ahead for the
increased production required
to meet the needs of a growing
population.
Part of the huge capital-cost
will have to be met out of
revenue, the Government and
the supply authorities have
properly decided. This will
mean an addition to charges for
power, over and above normal
increases. The average
domestic consumer, it has been
estimated, will have to pay
between 15s. and 355. a year
more on this account. As
present charges are among the
lowest in the world, this should
be no hardship.
Japanese Trade Pact?
A Tokio delegation may
come to N.Z. to negotiate a
trade pact as a result of pre-
liminary talks held in Welling-
“Put up a good show this lime and I’ll see about
getting this of your back."
ton between officials of the
two countries.
One of N.Z.’s principal aims
will be to obtain from the
Japanese an assurance that
buying will be regular, not
sporadic or as surplus exchange
becomes available. Japanese
imports will probably be con-
fined to a fairly narrow list in
order to protect local industries.
Japan will, it is expected, press
for full most-favored-nation
treatment.
In the last two years trade
each way has exceeded £2
million. Imports from Japan
cover a wide range, the most
important single item being
textiles. N.Z.’s main export to
Japan has been wool, but the
meat trade is expanding. Other
exports include hides, tallow,
casein, sugar-of-milk and scrap.
Meantime, representatives of
N.Z.’s three major export
industries wool, meat and
dairying—have been converg-
ing on Japan. The chairman of
the Wool Board, Mr. S.
Warded, accompanied by
another member, has spent a
week there, and a senior officer
of the Dairy Products Market-
ing Commission is joining two
representatives of the Meat
Producers’ Board to study
market possibilities.
Japanese private enterprise
is also taking a hand. Three
5700-ton motor-ships, with in-
sulated space for refrigerated
cargoes and specially designed
for a monthly service between
Japan and N.Z., are being built
for the Nitto Line of Tokio,
which has operated a regular
cargo-service between Japan
and N.Z. for the last four and
a half years. Pending delivery
of the new ships, some of the
existing vessels in the trade
have been fitted with limited
insulation for the carriage of
frozen beef.
Trade with U.S.A.
Prospects for the develop-
ment of N.Z.’s export meat
trade with the United States
are also being discussed in
optimistic terms.
The secretary of Federated
Farmers, Mr. A. P. O'Shea,
who recently returned from a
four-months’ visit to the
U.S.A., said there should be a
good opening for N.Z. lamb
at the time of the year—
December, January and Feb-
ruary when American pro-
duction was short. He pointed
out that New Zealanders ate
661 b. of mutton and 81b. of
lamb a head each year, while
Americans, in 1956 for instance,
ate only 4.31 b. of lamb and
mutton combined.
Entry to the American
market would have to be
handled delicately and with the
co-operation of the American
farmer. The lamb would
probably have to be pre-cut for
supermarket selling.
Two representatives of the
Standard International Import
and Export Co., Chicago, who
have Visited several N.Z. meat-
works and conferred with the
Meat Producers’ Board, say
that N.Z. can have a steady
and increasing market for its
meats in the United States.


Freedom
is a
Rainlow
By
STEPHEN KELEN
AT this early hour the
streets were wellnigh
empty. The broken
shop-windows, with the
goods left in them, presented
another strange —and noble —
aspect of the revolution.
The first news the regime had
broadcast on the radio was
about “Fascist hordes plunder-
ing the city.” For that reason
the people participating in the
struggle resolved not to touch
a single item. Almost all the
shops were State-run and con-
sidered enemy property. Yet
the rebels left everything intact
in the broken windows. In
some cases the goods were
deposited with caretakers, and a
note left telling managers
about the removal. There
were receipts left in the vacant
spaces, saying “Goods fully
received, Manager.”
In some instances when food
ran short the freedom-fighters
took away provisions, leaving
promissory-notes stating their
names and addresses. Later
these acknowledgment - slips
became evidence against them.
In other places buyers left
the purchase-price for goods
taken away. But honesty did
not stop with these gestures.
The intellectuals took-up a
collection for the orphans of
freedom-fighters. At a busy
intersection they stuck a
hundred-florin note (the highest
denomination in the country)
to the wall, and placed a
box underneath. “The im-
maculate aims of the revolution
allow us to collect in this
manner for the orphans of our
fallen heroes,” read a declara-
tion pasted next to the big
note.
Money quickly piled up in
the box. It was all there,
exposed and vulnerable to
thieving hands, but no one
plundered it.
With the Russians and the
Avos it was a different story.
As Lovas’s truck passed a
big department - store, its
windows smashed, and the dis-
play-space cleared out, the tired
men spoke for the first time.
“It’s the work of the cursed
Avos,” one remarked.


“I reckon,” another said,
“the Russians did it. We shot-
up a couple of their armored-
cars yesterday morning, just
before I went to Tisza Kalman
Square. When we looked inside
the cars, one was packed up
with the best suit-materials I’ve
seen for a long time. The other
crew were diligently collecting
tinned-food and cigarettes.”
“And I’m still willing to bet
you that the Avos plundered
the place, as they do, all over
the city, to discredit us. Do
you know that some of our
men are forced to do police
duty to protect the shops?”
“That’s a joke,” another man
said. “You mean to say
we’re defending property that
actually belongs to the
regime?”
“Why not?” An optimist
joined the conversation. “When
this is all over everything’s
going to belong to us. But
you,” he turned to the man
willing to bet that Hungarian
Reds were the culprits ; “what
makes you think the Avos did
the job at the store?”
“Because it’s not burnt-out.
The Avos are just as sure of
victory as you are, my dear
boy.
“They want to keep the build-
ings intact. So they only
plunder to give us a bad reputa-
tion. But the Russians? There
you have a different story. They
don’t give a damn about any-
body’s reputation. They just
take what they can store away,
and then burn or hack the place
to pieces. They always liked
a bit of a destruction. That
shop-window was undamaged,
save for the big broken plate-
glass scattered all over the
place; so I maintain it was
an Avos’ job.”
The truck dropped Lovas a
few hundred yards from his
villa, in another street. Nobody
asked names, no one wanted
to know where the others lived.
He had to walk only a short
distance, but he felt like a
marathon-runner on his last
mile.
As he walked through the
garden, hoping he would be
able to get to his door, Paula
and Tamas ran out of the
house, their faces bright. Lovas
looked at his wife ; it was a
long time since he had seen
her so radiant. And Tamas,
always calm and quiet, now
laughed, shouted:
“Father, Father, the Rus-
sians are leaving for sure!”
“Imre Nagy announced it;
Radio Budapest told us. There’s
an agreement between the
Soviet commander and the new
Government. The Avo to be
dissolved right away! We’ll be
free, Gyula, free!
Man and wife embraced, cry-
ing like children.
TN the following days Lovas
lost his sense of time. He
hardly noticed whether it was
morning, day or night. He
lived in a whirl of hopes and
enthusiasm.
Was it Monday or Friday,
1956 or 1848? What did that
matter? Imre Nagy broadcast
that the Avo was going to be
disbanded; March 15, the
anniversary of the revolution of
1848, again a national day.
Most important of all, the
Soviet sought a truce and was
willing to parley, withdraw
from Budapest, leave Hungary
altogether!
A unit from the Columbia
Broadcasting Corporation
asked him to ’ act as a guide
to Uri-street, where Carainal
Mindszenty’s residence was.
The Americans came from West
Germany, chasing “the biggest
scoop of the year.” They
bombarded Lovas with ques-
tions about himself, the revolu-
tion, his adventures, sym-
pathies ... He tried to under-
stand and answer, but his
English was poor.
A great crowd had assembled
in front of Cardinal Minds-
zenty’s residence. At the gate
soldiers from the Regular
Army checked the Americans’
papers and searched them for
weapons.
Suddenly the realisation that
Cardinal Mindszenty was free,
after eight long years of Red
imprisonment, came to Lovas.
He was a Protestant, but he
could have sung and danced
with joy. He followed the
Americans and joined the
crowd around the Cardinal.
He wondered just how much
the Reds had broken the man's
spirit. He elbowed his way
through the crowd, and stood
face to face with the Cardinal.
The determination was still
there; the eyes smiled.
“Your Eminence,” Lovas
himself asking Cardinal
Mindszenty, “what do you
think about these wonderful
events?”
“What can I tell you, my
son?” Cardinal Mindszenty
answered. “I don't really know
what goes on around me. I
don’t even know who this
soldier here is.” He pointed
at one of the men guarding him.
“I was locked away. I had no
knowledge of events in the
outside world. I can’t tell you
anything till I speak with the
proper authorities.”
Others demanded Lovas’s
place. Religious and political
differences were cast aside.
Lovas drifted away from the
Palace, eager to carry the good
tidings all over the city:
“Mindszenty is free. I saw him
healthy and in good spirits with
my own eyes.”
The curfew was lifted.
Freedom - fighters, regular-
police and soldiers took control
of the capital. The streets
became “comparatively safe,”
and Paula said to her husband,
“Let’s go visiting.”
Lovas looked at Paula as if
she had lost her senses. Paula
smiled.
“I mean it,” she said. “Maria
is home, she can look after the
children. Just before the
revolution started we promised
to go and see Mariska and her
husband. How about it?”
At first Paula’s suggestion
sounded absurd, but slowly it
became tempting. The very
idea of “going visiting” con-
jured a feeling of peace,
pleasant social contacts.
“Why not?” Lovas agreed.
“We can thumb a ride easily.”
Mariska Farkas and her
husband lived in a huge, six-
storied apartment-house in
Raday-street, on the other side
of the city. The Lovases were
lucky to get a “straight lift,”
and arrived a full hour earlier
than they expected.
A group of freedom-fighters,
some of whom knew Lovas,
travelled on the truck.
“This is a coincidence,” one
of his acquaintances said. “We,
too, are heading for Raday-
street, to smoke out a hornets’
nest. A dozen Avo families
retreated to the upper floors of
an apartment-house, and they
are ready to fight it out to the
finish.”
The trouble was in the very
house where the Farkas family
lived . . .
“And just now, when we got
rid of the Russians, and could
live in peace, these cursed Avos
have to make trouble in this
house,” Mariska complained
bitterly.
“As soon as they sensed
trouble,” Farkas said, “the
tenants from the upper floors
were thrown out, and the Avos
moved in with food-supplies
and weapons. The people they
threw out moved into their
flats, but this doesn’t solve our
problem. We must get them out
of here. Eliminate them!”
“Why not save further blood-
shed?” Lovas said. “Fight
them, and we lose our own
men. It would be much simpler
to cut off their water-supplies.
Sooner or later they’d have to
give up.”
“That’s not soon enough,”
Mariska said. “These Avos
know everyone in our house ;
they have a complete list of the
men who fought the regime.
They are trying to fast through
this lean time, and wait till the
Russians return. Then we're
going to get it right in the
face.”
“What makes you think the
Russians will come back?”
Paula asked uneasily.
Mariska shrugged.
“I don’t, but they do. I’d
better go and make you some
coffee. We have no cake. You
mind?”
Mariska tried to ease the
tenseness her remark created.
Earlier instalments of
this tense, dramatic no\ el,
factually based on the
revolt in Hungary (last
October-November) against
the Soviet tyranny,
movingly depicted the
spontaneous rising of the
Hungarian people.
Temporarily victorious,
they now briefly enjoy the
illusion of having won
back their national free-
dom : and then, the Soviet
counter-attack : the action
throughout centring mainly
on Gyula Lovas (drawn
perforce into an active part
in the freedom fight), with,
as other chief characters
in the drama, his family
and relations, among them
Paula, Maria, and the
children Judit and Tamds.
“It’s all very well for you
to suggest we should use softer
methods to get them,” Farkas
said. “You live in a villa with
other members of your family.
You don’t know what we have
to go through here. This place
is full of headhunters. One of
the Avos, Gombos, a few days
before the fight, boasted to me
that this month he earned an
extra two-thousand florins for
five heads he delivered to the
secret-police. Imagine, now, if
the regime regains power and
they are let loose on us!”
CTX days of relentless fighting,
of anxiety for lost and
dead relatives, of fears that the
revolution might fail, had
seemed like eternity. Now time
was rushing; Budapest again
belonged to her people.
The Russians were moving
out. Isolated Avo pockets still
defended themselves, but it
didn’t seem to matter. There
was time now to starve them
from their holes.
Lovas said to his wife, “It'll
take some time and trouble
to move those Pullman-coaches
from Hay-square!”
The transformation of the
freedom-fighter into the civilian


who likes his city neat and
tidy, and demands reliable
communications, had begun
already. Maria came home,
without her “guitar,” and
changed from slacks and the
heavy sweater she wore during
the fights into normal clothes.
To see her as she used to be
brought back the tragic loss
of Albert, although no one
mentioned his name. But
whenever an announcer spoke
on Radio Budapest, Maria grew
tense, her expression not of
grief but of hope, expectation.
What did she hope? Perhaps,
that Lovas was wrong, that
suddenly her husband’s voice
would come on the air, telling
her he was still alive, coming
home when his shift was over?
Judit was more a realist. One
day Lovas overheard her talk-
ing to Tamas.
“I know my father died for
our freedom,” Judit said. “I
am very proud of him. Just
like Kossuth, Petofi and
General Bern. Without
freedom-fighters, like my father
was, we still would have the
Communists and the Russkis
pushing us around.”
Budapest was becoming her
old self again. Through the
purgatory of the Second World
War, the great battle that
raged within her walls during
the Nazi retreat, the Russian
occupation, the Communist
regime and this terrible fight
which destroyed her for the
second time in hardly more
than a decade, it promised to
be a better place for her people.
The signals to pick up the
threads of the old life were
ali apparent.
Newspapers appeared again.
But they were no longer the
“Szabad Nep” (“Free People”)
type, or others approved by the
regime. They resembled, in a
cruder and more earthy form,
the great liberal papers of the
pre-war days, the first to be
suppressed when the Hungarian
Nazis came into power.
The Hungarians, especially
the Budapesters, were avid
publishers and readers. The
slightest opportunity, coupled
with provocation, and, presto !
there was a new daily, weekly
or monthly. So the new era
began with an avalanche of
daily papers! The problem for
Lovas was which paper should
he buy? The “Hungarian
Independence,” “Hungarian
Freedom,” “Hungarian World,”
“Hungarian Youth,” “Free
Word,” “Small Paper” or the
“People’s Will”?
It was a joy to see those
papers sold on the streets, to
read political arguments, to
notice divisions of opinion on
most things and the absolute
agreement on one point:
“Hungary must become an
independent, neutral country.”
It was evident that the Com-
munists had not succeeded in
eliminating the old political
parties. The Democrats, the
National Peasant Party, the
Independent Small Landholders
sprang into the open, publish-
ing their own newspapers.
Lovas, interested in all
opinions, had a great problem.
This was the end of the month,
his wages had run out, and
his domestic budget did not
allow him to spend the four-
and-half florins necessary to
read all the parties’ “true
intentions.” With some friends
he organised a newspaper-pool,
but that was not really neces-
sary. Strangers in the streets
stopped each other, saying: “I
have a ‘Free Word’ ; what have
you got?”
“I have a ‘Hungarian Inde-
pendence,’ ” the other might
say, and exchanges were made.
“Which party should I
favor?” —Lovas was on the
horns of a delightful dilemma,
forbidden by the former
regime.
T OVAS had faith in Imre
Nagy : others had not. Had
Nagy called in Soviet troops to
help the Comrades? The pso-
Nagy faction argued it couldn’t
have been the “old man,”
because the Soviet troops went
into action before he came to
power. But eight long, bloody
days had passed, and he made
no attempt to clear himself of
suspicion. Now, on Wednes-
day afternoon, October 31,
1956, Nagy stood beneath the
Kossuth Monument facing the
tremendous crowd which
waited for his answer.
Later, when it was all
over, even Lovas's chartered-
accountant mind was unable
to remember all the exact
dates, but this Wednesday,
when he stood in the crowd
holding Tamas’s hand and
feeling Paula half-squashed
against him, fixed itself clearly
in his memory.
There were no guards to
protect the Prime Minister, no
microphones in front of him.
Nobody attacked him, and his
voice sounded clearly, and with
great slrength through the
length and breadth of Lajos
Kossuth-square.
“Fellow-citizens,” he said,
“I did not ask the Soviet for
help. My Government asked
for the immediate withdrawal
of their troops. The call for
Soviet help was sent without
my knowledge. But these ques-
tions will be cleared up, especi-
ally now that we are terminat-
ing the Warsaw Pact.”
Independence! At long last
Hungarians would not be
forced to side with ideologies
strange to them, nor to fight
for Nazi or Soviet masters.
And Lovas thought: We stand
as one man behind Nagy.
The crowd thundered its
approval. But:
“Whatever happens, I stick
to my guitar,” a freedom-
fighter, patting his automatic,
said to Lovas. “What Nagy
says is one thing, what the
Russians will do another.”
“You’re right there,’ Lovas
agreed. At the same time he
resented the pessimist. It was
good to believe in the future.
He wondered how many of his
colleagues would be back at
the Ministry when work
resumed.
TN the past Lovas had resented
the radio. The home-
stations had broadcast Red
sermons, twisted news-items,
Soviet-inspired drama and
music. The loudspeaker was a
vicious mouth, saying with a
relentless tongue: “You must
be what we want you to be,
you must, you must* you must!
Or perish.” He used to listen
to Western stations, which
broadcast in his own tongue
(special Magyar hours), and in
German and English, which he
understood a little. But now
the free transmitter “Kossuth”
m Budapest, the “Petofi”-
station from Gyor, spoke of
hopes, great changes . . .
True, the Russians were still
in Hungary, but they had
retreated from the capital.
Radio Nyiregyhaza and a
number of other country
stations were sending reports of
suspicious Soviet troop-move-
ments. The Russians were not
leaving Hungary ; on the con-
trary, they were bringing in
reinforcements . . . “But,”
Radio Budapest reported,
“Andropov, the Soviet
Ambassador, assured the
Government that Russian
troop-movements only involved
regroupings, and there was no
intention to fight the victorious
revolutionaries.”
The indicator on the radio-
dial moved right and left, left
and right . . . Bitter Hungarian
voices already talked about the
attacking Russian forces.
The Nyiregyhdza announcer
reported a battle between
Hungarians and Russians
within that city’s limits . . .
Still, Radio Budapest and the
official Russian news-service
insisted that the truce-talks
were progressing successfully,
the main theme being the ways
and means of withdrawing the
Russian divisions from
Hungary. . .
Bewildered, Lovas sat in
front of his radio. Tamas,
sleeping on the sofa, stirred un-
easily. Paula came out of the
bedroom.
“Are you coming to bed or
staying up all night?” she asked
sleepily. “It won’t make any
difference whether you listen
to the radio or not.”
“Just a few minutes longer,
Paula,” Lovas said. “Let’s see
what the West knows.” Through
the static and confusion of
blurred voices in many
languages suddenly, and quite
clearly, came this announce-
ment :
“The London ‘Times' in its
leader to-day says that it seems
the Russian Goliath has decided
to trample the Hungarian
revolution in blood.”
Tamas woke up with a shock,
and asked: “What is it, what
happened?”
“Nothing, go back to sleep,
darling,” Paula said.
Tamas, reassured, turned
away from the light towards the
wall. Soon his deep, even
breathing showed that he was
asleep again.
“No,” Lovas said, “they
wouldn’t dare to turn openly
against the revolution. Not
even the Russians could do
that. I walked the streets of
Budapest today; I could not
see a single face that was
gloomy, or expressed doubt in
our victory . . . All those people
—how could they all be
wrong?”
The thought of leaving
Hungary had never occurred
to Lovas. The poet Voros-
marty said: “Be blessed or
cursed by Fate's hand—here
you must live and die.”
He always looked with con-
tempt at “renegades” who fled
abroad. “If we all go, all who
resent the regime,” he said to
Paula every time they heard
that a friend or acquaintance
had fled to the West, “soon
there’ll be no one here to
oppose them when the time
comes.” And the time arrived
without a war. The time was
here.
But it was passing, bringing
no change, only deeper despair.
By November 3, Budapest was
surrounded and cut off from
the outside world by heavy
Soviet troop - concentrations.
The people in the city still
o Continued on page 41)


ENTHUSIASTIC FARMERS EVERYWHERE ARE SAYING
Ampol for Me!
-
■m
i m
i: safe
&
WSjSI fej
i
m
mm
W 9
mmm
Wi
i;W.Xv
; Li l
KwisyvSS
in
»
SS
g®BB
Mr. D. G. Barwick, President of the Wheat and Woolgrowers*
Association of New South Wales, who has been an Ampol
user for 14 years, says —“ For our tractors and farm machinery,
we use Ampol oils and greases exclusively, and I am convinced
that no other lubricant could stand up to the gruelling work so
well. / can sincerely recommend Ampol to tractor users
Use the best
Australia's own
Hi
fillip
Oi
o o
a
POWER KEROSINE
Plus Ampol Distillate 9 Lighting Kerosine
• Petrol and a full range of farm lubricants.
AFM12.33


Coal, Cahill and Cessnock
WHETHER the sudden decision of the
Cahill Government to find £150,000
for roadworks and other projects to pro-
vide employment for miners retrenched
from the Aberdare colliery at Cessnock
will contribute much towards a long-term
solution of the displaced miners’ problems
remains to be seen, but it is almost certain
that it has set the pattern of action for
the Miners’ Federation whenever an
attempt is made to carry-out the Joint
Coal Board’s plan for the closing of
uneconomic pits. The belief that a stay-
in strike will bring immediate results has
now been established—and it will be very
difficult to scotch.
As part of the Cahill plan the owners
withdrew for three weeks the notices
which had been served on the 260 miners
involved and as a quid pro quo the Gov-
ernment authorised the purchase by the
N.S.W. Electricity Commission of 65,000
tons of previously unsaleable small coal
lying at grass. This part of the “settle-
ment” underlines the whole problem.
Does it make sense to keep a mine open
to produce a class of coal nobody wants,
merely to provide employment for men
who could be found remunerative work
elsewhere? And does it make sense for
the Electricity Commission to increase its
costs by using inferior coal when better
stuff is available —again for the sole pur-
pose of keeping the men in their old job?
Coal Board policy and Electricity Com-
mission policy until last week Said, “No”
—and Cahill agreed with them. But under
pressure from the Miners’ Federation and
the A.C.T.U. he reversed his opinion.
On recent past history of the closing-
down of pits there is no reason to
believe that serious unemployment faces
the Aberdare men. Every time an
unprofitable mine has been closed in the
past two years industrial Labor has
raised the cry of mass-unemployment and
distress and has urged the nationalisation
of the mines as a panacea. In the two-
year period June, 1954 —June, 1956, the
number of men employed in the N. S.
Wales coal-industry dropped by 2276, yet
at the end of the period the number of
mine employees registered for unemploy-
ment-benefit was only 29, and three weeks
later it had fallen to 9.
Last January more than 350 men lost
their jobs through the closure of pits. It
was then arranged for the Hunter Water
Board to provide work for them, but
many were able to find more attractive
employment and the board had some
difficulty in recruiting the numbers it
required. A fortnight ago only 22 men
were looking for jobs in Cessnock.
Mechanisation
For some years it has been the stated
policy of the Joint Coal Board to en-
courage the mechanisation of mines with
a view to reducing operating costs and
thus putting coal on a more competitive
footing with other fuels. A necessary
corollary of this has been the closing of
uneconomic pits and a reduction of the
labor-force of the industry. All these
facts have been accepted by the mine-
owners and the Miners’ Federation, and
re-employment committees representative
of all sections of the industry have been
established to cushion the effect of the
changeover.
The foregoing figures show how
effective the committees have been down
to the present. Most displaced miners
. have been re-absorbed into the industry,
the overall decline in numbers employed
being accounted for by fewer recruits
entering the industry to replace normal
retirements and resignations. For some
time the books of the Miners’ Federation
have been closed except on the expand-
ing southern field and for the necessary
engagement of youths and essential
tradesmen for whom, with increasing
mechanisation, there is now a bigger
demand.
The Real Trouble
The reason given for the dismissal of
the 260 Aberdare men was that reduced
Melbourne orders for gas-coal had made
a reduction of output necessary. This is
a sequel to the development of the Lurgi
process for the gasification of Victoria’s
brown-coal, and the loss to the Cessnock
field is permanent. But the real story
behind the decline of the Cessnock area
is told in two tables contained in the
1955-56 Joint Coal Board Report, which
give details of production, employment
and output per man-shift on the various
coalfields in the years 1947-48 and
1955-56.
In the whole industry the number of
employees increased by 3.2 per cent, in
the nine-year period, but production
increased by 26.9 per cent. On the Cess-
nock field there was a decline of 3.2 per
cent, in the number of miners, but a far
greater decline (11.5 per cent.) in produc-
tion. In the same period the western
mines, with 7.5 per cent, fewer men on
the job, increased their output by 19.3
per cent. On the other fields employment
rose, but output rose much more. Actual
figures: Newcastle, 3.7 per cent, and
29.1 per cent. ; Southern, 19.2 per cent,
and 78.6 per cent. ; North-west, 1.2 per
cent, and 101 per cent. Mechanisation
and the opening of new, easily worked
mines largely explains the disparities.
Similarly, in the nine years, the output
per man-shift in the industry rose Jfrom
2.92 tons to 3.59 tons, but in Cessnock
it remained almost stationary—2.69 in
1948 (even then the lowest rate) and 2.61
(more than a ton below Newcastle, the
next lowest in man-shift output) in 1956.
The report remarks:
It will b'e seen that, in all areas except the
Cessnock area, .the increase in output has
proceeded at a much faster rate than the
increase in employment. It is to be noted
that, on the South Coast, which is
undoubtedly destined to be the biggest pro-
ducing district in N. S. Wales, the pro-
duction-rate has increased by nearly 80 per
cent. Similarly in the North-west, i.e.,
between Singleton and Gunnedah, produc-
tion has doubled in the nine-year period
with virtually no increase in employment.
By sharp contrast with these improvements
the production from the Cessnock mines
has fallen at a greater rate than the drop
in the number of employees.
This is not to say that the miners in the
Cessnock pits work less than their mates
on other fields ; they may work harder.
But it is obvious that they are working
in an uneconomic section of the industry,
which cannot pull its weight against com-
petition from oil and other fuels or
against the more efficient pits.
A few days before the Aberdare stay-
in strike a deputation waited on Premier
Cahill. Representing the A.C.T.U. and
the Miners’ Federation and Jed by J. T.
Kenny and coalfields M.L.A.s, it asked
for the nationalisation of coalmines ; a
35-hour week in State mines ; a limitation
on oil-imports and the setting-up of
industries to promote wider uses for coal.
All this is A.C.T.U. policy ; the Aberdare
dismissals presented a convenient occasion
for bringing it up.
Not surprisingly, Mr. Cahill rejected
the proposals. A “spontaneous” stay-in
strike followed a Cessnock protest meet-
ing and Cahill’s promise of £150,000
followed (and ended) the strike.
Not Realistic
Most of the proposals put forward by
the miners’ representatives lack reality.
A nationalised coal-industry would still
have to push on with mechanisation (as
in England and America) and would still
have to close uneconomic pits. Its primary
function would still be to produce and
sell coal, not merely to provide jobs.
Reduction of the working-week to 35
hours would increase costs by approxi-
mately 12} per cent., with a consequent
rise in coal-prices that would wipe out
most of the gains made through
mechanisation.
The building of a power-station at
Maitland might help the Cessnock field,
but only at the expense of more efficient
mines elsewhere. For this the public
would pay in dearer electric power. The
question of whether the large-scale pro-
duction of chemicals from coal is a
payable proposition is one on which the
experts are still arguing. The Joint Coal
Board has studied a report prepared by a
research team from the N.S.W. University
of Technology, but has not reached any
final conclusions. Such a scheme would
require the co-operation of big concerns
such as 1.C.1., Courtaulds, B.H.P. and
C.S.R., and the Joint Coal Board’s last
word on the subject was that it intended
to discuss the matter with these and other
interested groups.
All in all, the future of the N. S.
Wales coal-industry as a whole is no
matter for gloom. In a long-range survey
of market prospects prepared in May,
1956, the Joint Coal Board envisaged that
the decline in 1955 sales compared with
1954 would be recovered in 1956 and that
“quite a considerable rise” could be
expected in 1958 ; further, that with the
planned expansion of steel-production
and electricity - generation “it seems
reasonable to assume further large in-
creases after 1958.” At this stage these
expectations seem fully justified.


Write Now to
C. T. LORENZ
the"S?®eictfist in
CAMERA
MAIL
ORDERS
We are shortly expecting the
arrival of a shipment of
VOIGHTLANDER and
AGFA Cameras. This stock is
in short supply ! Prominent,
Vitessa L and Vitessa T with
interchangeable lens. Veto B
and Veto BL. AGFA Silette
and Super Silette Many
accessories.
Large stocks of LINHOF and
BELL & HOWELL equipment.
To be certain ORDER
NOW!
All goods personally
guaranteed by
C. T. LORENZ
185 PITT ST..
Sydney 8L3431
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
Brisbane’s mid-winter racing
carnival concludes this Saturday
with the B.A.T.C.’s £lO,OOO
Doomben Cup, run over 11
furlongs less 22yds. The big
stake has attracted a bright
array of horseflesh from most
Australian States and New
Zealand, and it should be a
lively affair.
Fair Chance, runner-up to
Prince Delville in the Carnival
Handicap at Doomben last
Saturday, was successful in the
Doomben Cup last winter,
defeating Farquhar and Teran-
yan. His time, 2.14 y, was close
to the lace-record 2.13£ made
in 1949 by Rio Fe and later
(1955) equalled by Persian
Link. The Fair Chance stable
is confident he will win his
second Doomben Cup, while
other trainers have other ideas.
For the Doomben Cup:
Prince Delville, 1 ; Fire
Flash, 2 ; Mac’s Amber, 3. ■
Sydney jockey N. Sellwood,
who is to ride Prince Qslvjlle
in the Doomben Cup next
Saturday, won the race in 1952
on the McCarten-trained Toss-
ing. Visiting jockeys have won
the last five Doomben Cups.
Maurice McCarten holds the
riding honors with three wins
—Pentheus (1933), Whittington
(1934) and Beaulivre (1940). G.
Moore, who won the first leg
of the Doomben double on
Teranyan, won the Cup on
French Echo in 1953 and on
Rio Fe in 1949.
Teranyan, unlucky horse of
last winter’s Brisbane round—
hewa? second in the Strad-
broke Handicap, third in both
the Doomben Ten Thousand
and Doomben Cup, then a few
weeks later second in the
A.J.C. Epsom Handicap
atoned for those defeats by
brilliantly carrying off last
Saturday’s Ten Thousand. A
courageous little galloper, h®
had earned a change of luck.
Teranyan is now to attempt the
double achieved in 1946 by that
grand galloper Bernborough,
who won the sprint with 10.5
and a week later the Cup with
10.11.
Aspect, dam of Teranyan, has
proved a top-class broodmare.
Teranyan’s sister Lelspec was
successful at the last Warwick
Farm meeting, his half-brother
Newspec has won several races
for Teranyan’s trainer L. J.
O’Sullivan and others to win
from the mare included
Numidia, Horizon, and Scotch
Aspect. The dam, who didn’t
race, is an Eastern Monarch
(imp.) mare from Perspective
by The Welkin (imp.).
The first Grand National Steeple-
chase was held in 1866, but the race
was run irregularly until 1881, when
the Grand National Hurdle was
instituted. Since then the big jump-
ing double has been the highlight of
Victorian winter racing.
In the 76 years in which the feat
has been possible, only two horses
have won the double: Redleap
(1892) and Mosstrooper (1930). Red-
leap lumped the prodigious weight
of 13.3 in his Steeple win, a feat
never again equalled. Last century,
the race was frequently won by
horses carrying better than 12.0, but
the faster pace at which steeplechases
are nowadays run favors the light-
weights, and the only horse to win
with more than 12.0 in the last
35 years was the great Redditch;
he carried 12.3 in 1933, and ran the
3 miles and 1 furlong in 6.5, at that
time a record. In 1943, Victory
March reduced the time to 6.2.
Tim Corrigan, last century, and
Frank Dummett have the best rid-
ing-record in the race, having both
won it three times. Dummett also
rode three National Hurdle winners,
and has the best record for the
double.
For the first this season
racegoers saw Pedro’s Pride
defeated; the big mare
unexpectedly ran out of a place
in the Kensington Steeple. She
is naturally a free-goer, and it
was a surprise to see jockey L.
Moore hold her back in the
field, until well past the last
jump. But it was her first start
over the Flemington country,
and Moore may have felt that
she needed a careful look at
the big Flemington fences.
She carried 12.2 on Saturday,
and drops to 11.12 in the
National Steeple. Around the
12.0 mark, every pound means
a ton,, and if she takes her
place in the National field next
Saturday, the Don Pedro mare
will give a good account of her-
self. Lord Jeff,, who won the
Kensington comfortably, is not
entered for the National.
For the Grand National
Steeple: Pedro’s Pride, 1 ;
Allaw, 2; Providore, 3.
• • • •
The man most entitled to be
satisfied with the result of this
year’s Grand National Hurdle
is V.R.C. handicapper Davis.
With the thre miles of the race
completed, only three lengths
separated the first four horses.
Win or lose, the big crowd
enjoyed the race as a spectacle.
•They saw all 10 runners com-
plete the course and give a
wonderful display of jumping,
while the slogging finish over
the last two furlongs provided
excitement enough for any-
body. As expected, the
brilliant Law Pursuit cleared
away to a long lead, and with
less than a mile to travel had
a break of a good fifteen
lengths on the field. He was
* still in command over the last
jump in the straight, tiring
badly. Paid-Up, ridden a
masterly race by Brian Smith,
was hot in pursuit, and looked
certain to win until the South
Australian jumper Felcatch,
responding courageously to
Sanderson’s vigor, got up on
the inside to win in the last
stride. McKenna, who lost
several lengths when he
bungled a hurdle six from
home, - finished on stoutly to
cut Law Pursuit out of third
place.
Felcatch, who carried 9.13,
is an aged gelding by Felcrag
out of The Catch. He was
hailed as a National hope last
spring when he easily won a
hurdle race at Caulfield. How-
ever, his form in two recent
jumping starts was poor, and
his improved showing in the
National took most people by
surprise.
• • • •
-Dsly the lads from Erin
cheered the AfictOTw OlLConlan
A Bu in the first
the Myross Handicap, an event
run over five furlongs for two-
year-olds. At his previous start
the Beau Cheval gelding had
been beaten in a maiden event
in the country. However, on
Saturday he was able to match
the city speedsters, and fight
on for a narrow win. The geld-
ing is raced by Mr. and Mrs.
J. Mulcahy, hotel proprietors,
who took the name from the
family crest —in Gaelic, Conlan
A Bu means “Victorious For-
ever.”
• • • •
Bill Williamson, certain to
win the jockeys’ premiership
in Victoria again this year and
now chasing his own record of
67 wins in a season, rode a
double at Flemington. In
winning a division of the Two-
year-old mile, on Highfire, he
gave the lads opposed to him
a riding lesson. He had his
mount perfectly positioned all
the way, shot it to the lead on
the turn, and used only hands
and heels to get the best out
of it in the run down the
straight. Highfire is a most
promising colt: he has won two
of his last four starts and been
second in the other two ; he
can stay, and is up to weight.
Mr. C. O. Fairbairn, who races
Highfire (by Empyrean out of
Zaimis from The Mace),
believes the colt is Derby
material. He could be right.
Reg. Heather, who announced
his retirement only last week,
has “done a Melba” and
already staged a comeback. He
will probably ride at the Hunt
Club meeting at Moonee
Valley today (Wednesday) but
only if offered mounts weighted
at a minimum of 8.5. He refuses
to waste, but will offer his
undoubted skill to owners of
heavily-weighted horses.
Flemington’s 10-event pro-
gramme revived memories for
Sydneysiders of the pony
days. On one occasion at
Ascot, 19 races, including a
dead-heat run-off, were decided
at intervals of about 22 minutes.
The first bell rang at 9.30, the


Missing Friend
IN THE.SUPREME COURT ;
OF -*r
Divorce anji MX™7moN!al Causes
Jurisdiction.
39,57. No. 440.
TO HOWARD STANLEY HARDING
formerly of 3 Petrel Street Geelong in
the State of Victoria and now. of parts
unknown. —TAKE ' NOTICE that your
wife OLYVA MARY KATE HARDING
has instituted divorce proceedings
againsr you on the ground that you
have without just cause or excuse wil-
fully deserted her and without any
such cause or excuse left her continu-
ously so deserted for a period of three
years and upwards UNLESS you enter
an appearance at the office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court at
Melbourne in the State of Victoria on
or before the 14th day of August 1957
and also file an answer in the said
office on or before the 23rd day of
August 1957 the suit may proceed in
your absence.—DOY,LE &■ KERR. 108
Queen Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for
Pel itiorer.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.— In -Divorce.
TO DONALD FURNER late of 103
Wilson Street Newtown. - TAKE
NOTICE that EDWARD GRANT SCOTT
has filed a petition for divorce No.
2009 of 1954 on the ground of adultery
by LORNA MARGARET SCOTT
(formerly LORNA MARGARET
FURNER divorcee) with yourself If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 10th day of September 1957 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from C. W. ROBINSON, Solici-
tor, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.'— J.
DOUGIIAN, Registrar.
first race started at 10, and
racing concluded at 4.30.
Faux Tirage (imp.) has sired
jnany winners, both in New
Zealand and in Australia, with
Knave one of the most
prominent. Knave won in
America last Saturday over a
mile, starting favorite in a
$20,000 contest. Altana
—surprise winner of the first
event at Flemington, the First
Two-year-old mile is a
daughter of Faux Tirage and
Golden Chime, and was bred at
Karamu Stud, Hastings (N.Z.).
Golden Chime is a Golden
Souvenir mare fiom Kath-
bella by Beau Pere (imp.).
Kathbella was a good-class
mare in the Dominion,
where she won 10 races and
£3325 in stakes. Her progeny
have won just on £20,000 in
stakes.
Flemington trainer J.
Lewis paid only 285gns. for
Ammonite, speedy winner of
the second division of the
Myross. the client
for whom he purchased the filly
had his freart set on a colt, and
Lewis subsequently sold
Ammonite to suburban coun-
cillor R. Cornwell, who
races her in partnership with
his wife. They have good
reason to be satisfied with their
purchase, as this w'as Ammo-
nite’s second successive win.
The Gaekwar’s Pride (imp.)
colt Funicular, easy winner of
Canterbury Park First Two-
year-old Maiden Handicap,
traces to Cat bine on the dam’s
side. He is from Carriole, a
speedy mare of some seasons
ago, she a daughter of
Harinero (imp.) and Hansom
(imp.) by Six Wheeler from
Sauda by Trespasser. A
number of stayers appear in the
pedigree, including Jovial Lad
(Perth Derby), Queen’s Shilling
(a two-miler), and Hansom
(winner at 12 furlongs). Funi-
cular, trained at Rosehill by
"Maybe he Is bigger than you , but don't forget YOU
got the brains !”
J. Daniels, was bred at Mary-
lands Stud, Castle Hill, and
wasn’t offered for sale as a
yearling.
All distances come alike to
lightweight jockey Noel
McGrowdie, who, though he
has ridden only 19 winners in
the Sydney city-radius this
season, has ridden many others
at provincial and inter-State
fixtures. McGrowdie added
three to his tally at Canterbury
when Funicular scored in the
First Two-year-old Maiden,
blew Duke in the First Belmore
Stakes and Bidgee Stream in the
Canterbury Park Handicap.
New Duke’s win was his first
in the city, though he had
shown ability at other fixtures:
earlier in the week he won at
Hawkesbury and a few weeks
previously at Forbes ; he won
his first race at Orange last
March. Now that he has proved
equal to a victory in the metro-
polis, he’ll be given further
opportunities in better-class
events.
Since the introduction of
emergency-acceptors by Sydney
clubs, many owners have won
stakemoney when scratchings
of horses after the declaration
of acceptances have enabled
them to get a run. This
happened at the last Canter-
bury meeting when Coal won
the Welter Handicap and Chieti
finished third in the same
event ; they were the only two
emergencies. The Coal stable
was anxious for a start, because
the filly has shown a liking foi
Canterbury, and was successful
there earlier in the season.
As well, the filly had recorded
smart track-times at Rosebery
during the week. She is one of
A. F. (“Nipper”) Berry’s team,
and was piloted by country
jockey R. Mclntosh, who rode
a clever race to have her with
the lead all the way, to take
charge after turning into the
straight.
Grafton Cup time is round
again. The popular Rivers
carnival embraces a number of
local fixtures, with the
C.R.J.C.’s double Ramornie
Handicap (six furlongs; July
17), and the Grafton Cup
(about 10 furlongs; July 18)
as main attractions. If the
handicapper has been a bit solid
on the better-class horses, indi-
cations are the fixture will still
attract some tidy fields.
4 4
For the second successive
year it was an “all-Australian”
singles-final at Wimbledon. In
1956 it was Hoad and Rose wall,
with Hoad winning fairly comfort-
ably in four sets, 6-2, 4-6, 7-5, 6-4.
This year it was Hoad and Cooper,
with Hoad again winning—very easily
in straight sets, 6-2, 6-1, 6-2. It
vyas one of the fastest Wimbl ✓.on
finals, taking only 56min.
It wasn’t that Cooper played
badly—he wasn’t given much
opportunity to play at all. He was
overwhelmed by sheer power-tennis.
The pace and strength of Hoad’s
shots were “unbelievable,” jn
Cooper’s own word. It was the
first time an Australian had won two
successive Wimbtedons, and the first
“double” since Donald Budge in
1937-38.
His win represented a great
achievement for Hoad, whose back
was in plaster a few months ago
and who had been “written-off” by
many when, in his fight back to the
top, he’d lately gone under to one
or two comparative second-raters.
And with that achievement Hoad
left the amateur ranks.
Throughout the tournament Hoad
dropped only one set —to Australian
Mervyn Rose, in a quarter-final. On
the whole Australians did fairly well.
1 hree of the four semi-finalists were
Australians—first lime this had
happened. (It was also the first year
since the early 1920’s that not one
U S. player reached the semis.)
Three AustralianidgaJjlsi-eombiha-
ttons 3145 7mal, though only
tflT? ‘won. Hoad-Fraser were
expected to defeat the veteran
Americans Mulloy and Patty—which
would have meant that the doubles
were won by an Australian combina-
tion for the eighth successive year—
but didn’t; and Mrs. Long and
Mrs. Hawton went down to
Americans Althea Gibson and
Darlene Hard. Rose and Miss Hoad
won the mixed doubles from Fraser
and Miss Gibson.
One or two other Wimbledon
points: Althea Gibson, defeating
Darlene Hard 6-3, 6-2 in the
women’s final, became the first
regress to win Wimbledon; while
English 16-year-old girl Christine
Truman had earlier become the
youngest women’s semi-finalist since
1887.
* * #
Making a second notable
Australian sporting victory was
young sculler Stuart Mac-
kenzie’s winning of the
Diamond Sculls at the Henley
World Regatta. In the final he
defeated the Russian Ivanov
by 4ft. in Bmin. 25sec.
Mackenzie thus reversed the
result of the final of the
Olympic Games single-sculls
on Lake Wendouree last
November, when the also-
youthful Ivanov (who must be
a good-’un, nonetheless
Mackenzie’s win reflects the
Australian’s world-rating) did
benefit from Mackenzie’s mis-
taking the final marker-buoys
and easing-up too soon.


There’s
in
every
glass!
f
&
<«r»
if)
V-
-0
O
Y
a glass
of Sheaf
puts new
life
into you!
STOUT
Crev- and bottled by
Golfer Peter Thomson,
attempting to win his fourth
British Open, failed by three
strokes to make it a really big
week for Australians in
England; South African
Bobby Locke was his con-
queror. Thomson’s final round
of 70 set Locke the task of a
final 72 or better, and Locke’s
70 won the day.
* * *
F.K. Austria, which had
unexpectedly been beaten by
Australia in the first Soccer
Test at Wallsend the previous
week, showed itself ihe equal of the
Austrian Rapid club, which had
toured Austiaha in 1955, by an easy
win over Australia, 8-3, on a heavy,
muddy S.C.G. in the second Test on
Saturday.
The visitors took a while to settle
down, and Australia scored tirst,
lOmin. after the start, from a drive
by Queenslander Kitching; the
Austrians took 15min. to equalise.
Ten minutes later Australia again
led, when skipper Marston, from a
penalty-kick, had goalie Ondreicska
diving the wrong way; but Austria
had levelled at 2-all by half-time.
The second half was altogether
different, with the visitors, in almost
complete mastery, of the conditions
and of the Australian detenders
(despite that Marston and goalie
Ruyters both made great saves),
scoring at, for a time, regular tive-
minute intervals.
All the scoring in the second half
was done by the visitors, though in
one rare Australian attack a drive by
Siewart did hit an upright. The
eighth Austrian goal came a couple
of minutes from the end, straight
after which, the play coming down
to their goal, an Austrian defender,
Rappel, dreamily (and somewhat
farcically) headed the ball into his
own net to give Australia its third
goal.
* * *
“R.A.C.”: Ted Whitten, the
crack centre-half-forward from
Footscray, who won the Simp-
son Medal for best and fairest
in the W.A.-Vic., game, moves with
the speed and grace of a ballet-
dancer. Effortlessly eluding or
marking above opponents he
repeatedly put the Vies, into
attack.
Victorian handball is of a
different class from W.A.’s. The
Victorians handball to a man on
the run in a better position than
themselves. W.A. often hand-
balled to a player flatfooted sur-
rounded by a nest of Vies, ready to
pounce.
One feature of this Vic. team was
its great pace. Often W.A. players
with a 10yd. break on the ball were
beaten by their much faster
opponents. Perhaps it’s the colder
climate in Melbourne, or something?
Victoria trounced W.A. 15.25 to
6 12 (margin, 67 points) in the first
of two inter-State games in Perth
(June 29, 1957). Jack Sheedy, W.A.
captain, was the only player to line-
up who took part in W.A.’s great
carnival win in Hobart in 1947. (In
the return game an injury-hit
Victoria again won easily, 17.20-
11.7.)
• •’ • •’
After Saturday’s V.F.L.
round “the four” again slightly
rearranged itself, and is
now Melbourne, Carlton,
Footscray and Essendon,
which gets back in by a good
win over Collingwood, 12.16-
10.13 —the Magpies’ final-four
hopes are now pretty dim.
(They meet Melbourne this
Saturday.) North, with a
brilliant seven-goal final term,
staggered Richmond 17.15-
10.13. Carlton, the only team
in the round to win away from
home, knocked Hawthorn out
of the four for the first time
this year, 8.13-7.10. Mel-
bourne, in top gear, kicked the
highest score of any club this
year in its 14-goal margin over
Fitzroy, 24.14-10.14. The
Demons had also kicked the
previous-highest (154 points,
four points less) against
Geelong, on Queen’s Birthday.
Footscray had an exciting one-
point win in a ding-dong battle
with Geelong, 9.11-9.10. South
beat St. Kilda in the “Lakeside
premiership,” 11.15-9.17, being
fitted with slightly the straighter
boots.
* * *
In Sydney’s Rugby Union on
Saturday, Gordon, which has
been beaten only once this
year (by University), experi-
enced its first draw of the
season—also when in opposi-
tion to the Students. It was
6-all after a gripping, hard-
fought game which did not see
either line crossed. Gordon
skipper Bob Davidson set a
club-record by playing his
138th first-grade game. In
other games Randwick, held to
a draw last time they played,
easily beat Parramatta 24-3 ;
St. George, with international
winger Stapleton scoring four
tries, smashed through North,
34-14; Manly reversed the
decision of their previous meet-
ing against Easts, 17-14 ; and
Drummoyne again beat East-
wood, 12-9.
• • * •
“K.R.”: Also included in the
“Rugby News” of 17/6/’57
(which I referred to in B.
26/6/’57). is a news-item to the
effect that Rumania, which has
been playing Rugby Union for
50 years, wants to have the code
included in the next Olympic
Games. A vice-president of the
Rumanian Rugby Federation,
Alexandra Guia, who played
fullback for Rumania pre-war,
is the main plugger for Olympic
Rugby. On a recent visit to
London, he stated that this
would help to spread Rugby,
and that other European
countries were in favor. How-
ever, his proposals were poorly
received in England, one writer
being quoted as saying that the
Home Unions were “strongly
against attempts to make it a
world game.” .Why is this?
I've always thought the
administrators of every sport
were interested in getting other
States and countries playing,
and that the more universally a
game is played the better for it.
“Old Rep.”: Australian
representative teams were not
outclassed by this year’s All
Blacks. As a matter of fact,
the individual standard here
must have pleased most
followers of the code, despite
successive defeats. Beyond all
doubt, the N.Z. forward pack
was as good as, if not better
than, any bunch of forwards
ever seen in this country, Union
or League ; and no one who
has seen them should wonder
at their conquest of the Spring-
boks last season. The back
division, however, although
fast and heady, was individu-
ally or collectively no better
than their Australian
opponents; but these All
Black backs did show, as N.Z.
threequarters have done for
half-a-century, that to take the
ball flat-footed is a mortal sin.


ilmSdutimmAi'
mm
Wohon
R.gd.
Easy to use and
simple to operate.
Is draughtproof and
can be used in or out
of doors. Has com-
plete heat control
from silk to serge.
• 4 hours easy ironing
on only $ pint of
kerosene.
• No wires no flexes
• Take it anywhere I
• Cannot spill!
• 100% British Made
too i
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores throughout Australia»
In case of difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
THIS
DUPLICATOR
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Hotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents—
SYDNEY W. C. Penfold St Co. PtJ. Ltd.
MELBOURNE . Norman Bros. Fty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE . . Vardon Price Ltd. 1
PERTH • Docket Book Co. (Anet.)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Billis and Kenyon’s
Pastoral Pioneers of Port Phillip.—
6541.
To buy early N.S.W. or Tas-
manian almanacks, gazettes and
calendars, issued by Howes, Bent,
Ross or Melville before 1850. —6542.
To buy J. McDouall Stuart’s
Explorations Across the Continent of
Australia (Melb., 1863); H. M.
Suttor’s Australian Milestones (2
vols., 1925); Swain’s The Timbers
and Forest Products of Queensland;
G. Taplin’s The Folklore, Manners,
Customs and Languages of South
Australian Aborigines (Adelaide,
1879); Watkin Tench’s Relation
d'une Expedition a la Baye
Botanique (Paris, 1789). —6543.
To buy “Journal and Proceedings
of the Royal Society of N.S.W.”
(Vols. 1, 3-8, 49, 67—to date); “The
Journal of the Soil Conservation
Services of N.S.W.” (Vols. 1-5 ; Vol.
6—Nos. 1,2, 4; Vol. 7—Nos. 2,3;
Vol. 8; Vol. 9—No. 2; Vol. 10;
Vol. 11—Nos. 1-3); “The Australian
Museum Magazine” (Vol. I—Nos.
1. 3, 11, 12; Vol. B—Nos. 1,2, 11).
—6544.
Wanted, copies of C.5.1.R.0.
pamphlets Nos. 1,4, 5,7, 8, 10, 13,
17, 24, 25, 32, 36. 39, 42, 44-50,
53, 55, 73, 77, 84, 92-94; C.5.1.R.0.
Bulletin Nos. 1-17, 19-23, 25, 26, 28,
30-36, 38-43, 46, 49-51, 54, 55, 57,
61, 64-66, 72, 77, 80-90, 93, 94, 112-
116, 125, 127, 148, 156, 172, 191,
198, 205-207, 219, 231, 233, 236,
240.—6545.
Will sell or exchange, for any
other interesting Lawson item or
first edition, a copy of the edition
in Hebrew of Henry Lawson’s
Selected Stories, published in 1947,
in Palestine.—6s47.
Information Sought
A few aboriginal words for (1)
o'ld-man saltbush; (2) on a hill;
(3) by a river; or, in each case, for
something similar ?
(1) Nilpena, old-man saltbush;
Bahlaka, Dandiri, Mamb u 1 u ,
Palkalara, saltbush. (2) Aperta,
Banool, Madrawona, Morelia,
Tepko, Wanpani, hill; Bangalla, a
low hill; Attunga, high place;
Barregowa, middle of a hill;
Callemondah, plenty of hills. (3)
Adaluma, river; Adnamira,
Akoonah, Akuna, Wyong, flowing
water; Bealiba, redgum-tree creek;
Cabarita, by the w'ater; Culbara,
sandy creek; Dirkala, bank of a
creek; Iterala, by the bank (of a
creek or river); Larapinta, creek
with running water; Narrabri, big
creek; Paringa, place at the river;
Warrenparinga, windy river place.
• • * •
What is an ephemeris ?
An ephemeris is a diary or journal.
Specifically, in astronomical matters,
it is. a publication giving the com-
puted places of the celestial bodies
for each day of the year, or for
other regular intervals, with other
data for the astronomer and the
navigator. There are four great
astronomical ephemerides in the
world —the “National Almanac,”
the ‘‘American Ephemeris,”
“Connaissance des Temps” and
“Berliner Jahrbuch.”
* * * *
What are the separate uses of
boiled and raw linseed-oil, from the
point of view of the home painter ?
The composition of oils is
extremely complicated, and it is
quite unnecessary for the home
painter to be concerned regarding
their merits. Directions on paint-
tins should be followed carefully,
especially with the newer resinous
and synthetic paints. Raw linseed-
oil, as the name implies, is that
which is expressed from flax-seeds:
it is slow-drying and used mostly as
a thinner. Boiled oil is linseed-oil
which has been subjected to high
heating under a current of air, with
possibly a drier added. It is heavier
than the raw oil, and is extensively
used in paints which give a skinlike
covering to wood, etc. For further
information, consult an encyclopaedia
>n your public library.
* * * *
Can l, as a Service-pensioner, get
a wireless-licence at the reduced rates
allowed old-age pensioners ?
The Broadcasting and Television
Act provides that broadcast
listeners-iicences and television-
licences at the reduced rates may be
granted to any person who is in
receipt of one of the following
pensions, and who lives alone or
with another person or persons in
receipt of one of the pensions men-
tioned. (a) An age- or invalid-
pension under Part 111 of the Social
Services Act; (b) a widow’s-pension
under Part IV of the Social Services
Act; (c) a “Service” pension, or a
pension in respect of totally and
permanently incapacitated under the
Repatriation Act ; (d) a pension in
respect of totally and permanently
incapacitated under the Repatriation
(Far East Strategic Reserve) Act. It
should be noted that the expression
“Service pension” does not include
all pensions granted to ex-Service
personnel, but is a particular type of
pension, the grant of which is sub-
ject to a means-test similar to that
which applies in the case of age-,
invalid- and widow’s-p ensi o n s
granted under the Social Services
Act. Actually a “Service” pension
relates to a pension granted to:
(n) men who have served in a
theatre of war and have reached
the age of 60 years; ( b ) women who
have served in a theatre of war, or
abroad, or who embarked for
service abroad, and who have
reached the age of 55 years; (c)
those who have served in a theatre
of war and who are regarded as
permanently unemployable, in which
case there is no age-limit.
♦ * * *
How to clean bullock’s tripe for
domestic consumption ?
Thorough scouring is all that is
really necessary. Open the paunch,
empty out the herbage, wash
repeatedly in changes of clean
water, then lay out on a bench and
scrub the honeycomb side well with
a stiff brush; wash again. To
blanch it before cooking, place in
cold water and bring to the boil;
strain off the water, and begin
cooking in cold water according to
accepted recipes. It is usual to cut
the tripe in pieces measuring about
lin. by 2in.
* * * *
Could you advise if the postal
services operate any method of direct
posting of first-day covers?
The Postmaster-General’s Depart-
ment maintains a first-day cover
service. Clients may lodge standing
orders at the Philatelic Bureau, Mel-
bourne, and may either provide their
own self-addressed envelopes or
order the departmental standard-
type envelope, to be addressed as
required. Envelopes other than the
standard cannot be provided, nor
will the department buy special
envelopes from outside sources on
behalf of clients. A full list of
philatelic societies is shown on page
306 of the “Australian Stamp
Monthly” for May, 1957, which is
available from all postage-stamp
dealers and leading stationers, or
may be obtained direct from the
publishers (Box 1944, G.P.0., Mel-
bourne; cost Is., plus postage). It
is also suggested that you write to
the Officer-in-Charge, Philatelic
Bureau, G.P.0., Melbourne, for
further particulars.
* * * *
A method of tanning kangaroo-
skins, retaining the fur, by a
wattlebark process ?
Clean the edges of the skin by
clipping away torn parts and pieces
of flesh. Place in cold water and
wash thoroughly. Rinse and leave
in water while the tan is being
mixed. Take 51b. chopped wattle-
bark, pour over it l|gal. hot
water and leave overnight. Mean-
time, take 31b. alum and 21b. salt,
dissolve in 2gals. hot water and
allow to cool. Strain the wattle-
extract, and mix with the alum-
and-salt solution. Mix 21b. flour
into a paste, add pint neatsfoot-
oil, add to the other mixture and
make up to 4gals. Apply this with
a brush to the flesh side of the
skins, about |in. thick. Then
fold up, leave for a day or two,
repeat once or twice and hang to
dry. Pull into shape while drying
and rub with a pumice-stone as it
becomes quite dry. (There are
many different bark methods, some
of them taking a very long time to
tan the skins. The above is a
simple and fairly quick method,
which, however, requires experi-
ence for good results. For further
information, see also the answer in
The Bulletin for June 12, 1957.)


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BAKKERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The nbo - BAR-
rere acts like
a hand when
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for Free Literature
Barrere Distribution Company
Dept. 3p, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
suffer from—
RHEUMATISM
OR
ARTHRITIS
THIS WILL INTEREST YOU
When Mr. R. A. Stratton was given an old Indian formula for
the relief of Rheumatic complaints some 30 years ago, he had no
idea that one day he would be sending the Powder around the
world to relieve sufferers. “Naturally, as a strong, robust youth,
I thought little about it at the time,” said Mr. Stratton, "but in
later years I became a chronic Arthritis sufferer myself, so 1 had
the formula made up by a chemist and took a course of the
Powder for some months, which effected a complete cure.
“I naturally sympathised with anyone else who had been
similarly afflicted, so I decided to have the Powders prepared
in commercial quantities so I could help the numerous sufferers
from Rheumatism and Arthritis, and I must confess the results
have been amazing.”
The Company started selling the
Powder some 3 years ago, and for
a start its sales were limited to
this State, bnt, as a result of its
success, it was quickly acclaimed
a WORLD DISCOVERY and its
fame spread throughout Aus-
tralasia and Overseas until we now
have a world-wide clientele of
over 30.000 and we have obtained
an enviable reputation for our
ability to bring relief to all types
of RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS.
This result, we are proud to say,
has been achieved without the use
of harmful drugs or painful injec-
tions.
One lady in South Perth who had
suffered from Rheumatism for
years and could not even open
her hands, and had been declared
incurable, can now move her hands
quite normally, and with perfect
freedom from pain.
Another Perth lady had been a
sufferer for years and was com-
pletely crippled for 7 months out
of every 12. She sought relief in
Europe and America, had gold in-
jections and Oortizone—all to no
avail. She was advised to try the
mud baths in N.Z.. and still
found no relief, yet after she had
taken a course of our Powder she
was able to go dancing. Her age
was 65. This well-known Hotel
Licensee has subsequently been
pleased to recommend our Powder
to numerous sufferers who have
long sought a reliable remedy for
the relief of their complaints.
Recently a loyal Danish subject
who declared himself cured of
Rheumatism and Lumbago by the
use of our Powder, asked us to
send 3 cartons to King Frederick
VIII of Denmark, who suffers from
Lumbago, and we were pleased to
accede to his request. The
addresses of the above mentioned
can be seen at our Office, as well
as hundreds of original testi-
monials.
Prepared from the purest and
Snest ingredients, the Powder is
a NATURAL REMEDY and NON-
HABIT FORMING, contains NO
DRUGS and can be taken with
perfect confidence by young and
old alike who are afflicted with
complaints of the RHEUMATIC
GROUP.
Sufferers who have had Cortisone,
A.C.T.H. Gold Injections, Ray
Treatment —all alike have found
relief with our proven remedy, of
whose record we are justly proud.
Thousands have found relief from
suffering. WHV NOT YOG?
FOUR WEEKS’ SUPPLY CARTON complete with Instruc-
tion Pamphlet. TREATMENT ADVICE and SPECIAL
CONCESSION RATE VOUCHER if your complaint needs
further treatment costs only £1 POST FREE Send to:
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER Pty. Ltd.
9 BARRACK ST., PERTH, W.A.
refused to believe that the end
was in sight. The free papers
still appeared. The general
strike was to end ; on the
following Monday the workers
were to return to the factories,
the clerks to their desks.
Another era of reconstruction
was to begin . . . Rebuild
Budapest, the free capital of
neutral Hungary!
T OVAS slept uneasily. He
dreamed he saw young
David with a shanghai in his
hand facing Goliath, who stood
behind a heavy gun . . .
Now he heard Tamas cry-
ing aloud. The doorbell was
ringing violently. Tamas
screamed in the darkness.
Lovas jumped out of bed, and
put the light on. The bell went
on ringing. It reminded him
of the day the phone rang with
the same persistency.
(To be concluded next week )
long been waiting for a new twist.
. ...J.A.: Story about the smoker
who gave it away only to find him-
self in the throes of narcotics too
terrifying T.R.G.: Hardly a
subject for poetry... .S.F.G.:
Found your “Heretic” emetic/...
8.C.: Your sonnetary tussle with
Kant too one-sided L.N.O’D.:
Try to make it go tra-la-la
S.A.D.: Old plot not made any
more readable by a too-rapid
staccato... .N.K.: “Pearlseekers”
too precious M.S.: That type of
story about the Wild West generally
goes west... .G.J.W.: Strong as
dishwater... .S.L.E.: Her “glisten-
ing golden tresses, touched with
iridescent light,” are now adorning
the basket F.F.: “Ode to a Coal-
scuttle” scuttled M.P.: Crawls
along like a sluggish centipede....
R. : Doomed from the second
stanza... .8.F.M.: Might interest
caterpillars D.C.: Your idea of
a short-story is our idea of a novel.
. ...W.N.: “Gun-running” still
running... .M.S.: “Frost” i 5....
K.R.: Liked Sir Figtree Bridge, but
the other characters incoherent....
S. Not enough local color.
.'. ..T.R.: “What ho! Gannets and
gulls!” What ho, what ho, but
what hope? .... A.M.: Where else
could you place it? Well, there’s
the bottom drawer... .H.N.: All
those tall stpries fell short... .P.T.:
Stick to bushwalking... .0.P.: Your
“Buccaneers” have walked the
plank.
Brief Answers
W.M.: A further article to the
one quoted (B. 26/6/’57) on pro-
ducing energy from tidal movement
appeared in the scientific journal
“Discovery” for Feb., 1957 —
“Energy from the Sea,” by J. H. M.
Sykes C.L.: Yes, both from
Coleridge—“ Thou soothest the sad
wood-nymph, Solitude” from “Lines
to a beautiful spring in a village”;
“Praise, praise it, O my Soul!” etc.
from “Reflections on having left a
place of retirement’’....
. ...K.S.: Yes, it was announced
recently that the P. and O. liner
Flimalaya will be given a trial trans-
pacific run in March, 1958, as a test-
voyage for a regular trans-Pacific
service jointly planned by the P. and
O. Line ana the Orient Line, to
begin in 1960. Each company is
building a new liner for the pro-
posed service... .A.R.C.: (1) The
“Theodore Plan” was put to the
Premiers’ Conference in Feb., 1931,
advocating, among other things, the
granting of unlimited credit for
“sound enterprises.” The plan,
impracticable and grossly inflation-
ary, was not accepted. (2) It was
the historian Lecky who wrote it,
not Leacn—but we couldn’t print
a thing tike that C.W.F.R.: (1)
The time taken would depend on
the individual painter. There’s no
answer to such a question as “How
long does it take to write a novel?”
(2) See The Book of Harrow, com-
piled by E. D. W. Chaplin (1948),
which commemorated the 850th
anniversary, in 1944, of the con-
secration by Anselm, Archbishop of
Canterbury, of St. Mary’s Church
on Harrow-on-the-Hill. (Harrow
school was founded in 1571.) (3)
Sir Winston Churchill is an old
Harrovian... .E. 8.: Merino sheep
were imported into Australia in
1796 by Captain Kent, R.N., on the
order of John Macarthur....
J.M.: See the C.5.1.R.0. brochure
“The Soils and Land Use Potential
of the Lower Burdekin Valley,
North Queensland,” by G. D.
Hubble and C. H. Thompson.
Published in 1953, it summarises the
results of a survey made in 1948-50;
the area examined stretched from
the apex of the delta, about 12
miles south-west of Ayr, to the
junction of the Burdekin and Bowen
Rivers, 50 miles upstream. The
extent of the survey was 1270
square-miles, covering the valley-
floor, the lower slopes of the valley,
and isolated upland areas... .E.J.:
The story “The Biggest Station in the
World,” by Dal Stivens, appeared
in B. 21/11/'51 —copy has been
posted S.G.: Emifie Dionne, one
of the quintuplets, died on Aug. 7,
1954, aged 20... .L.J.8.: (1) No.
(2> Listed on the N.Z. Stock
Exchanges. (3) Whakatane Board
Mills, Ltd., took-over all the
“active” assets of Matea Forests,
Ltd., in 1947. (4) A bit tough going
at the moment, but has promise of
increased earning -power....
J.M.: (1) £5OO. Officers of the
Legislative Council get higher
salaries. (2) Write N.S.W. Registrar-
General’s Department, Chancery-
square, Sydney. (3) T. Dougherty
is not a member. (4) E. J. Ward.
....S.McK.: (1) It was recently
announced that Eugene O’Neill, who
died in 1953, had been awarded his
fourth Pulitzer Prize for his play
“Long Day’s Journey Into Night.”
It was the first time the Pulitzer had
been awarded posthumously. O’Neill
had originally intended that the
play, an autobiographical drama,
should not be published for 25 years
after his death; but his widow
decided not to abide by his wishes,
and had it printed. (2) Henry
Handel Richardson was the Aus-
tralian novelist to whom a memorial
plaque was unveiled in Britain at
the beginning of May.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
5.0. D.: Try reducing your poly-
syllables to a ratio of one in four.
. ...F.S.M.: No biz. for “Liz”....
A.McA.: Morbid... .0.T.: Tedious.
. ...G.H.F.: A chill wind of cliches
blew through “The Valley”....
L.J.C.: Nothing original in that
0ne.... 8.Y.U.: Getting c105e....
W.P.E.: Couldn’t accept your
“Apologies” L.8.M.: Just
another racecourse coup that didn’t
come 0ff....A.5.: That tale has


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE FLOWERS THAT BLOOM...
"ORITISH and American
press-comment on Mao
Tse-tung’s February speech,
released nearly six months
later:
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“Because Poles, in the strangely
liberal atmosphere of Warsaw,
have been arguing eagerly over
extracts from a speech made by
Mao earlier this year, we have
now been given from Peking
the full text with significant
amendments. But the passages
of doctrine which are known
to have irritated and
embarrassed the keeper of the
Communist party’s conscience,
Mr. Khrushchev, remain to
baffle Marxists and Stalinists.”
The sam%: “Mao is retreat-
ing from excessive brutality,
from over-rigorous control,
exercised by party officials
many of whom jumped on the
band-wagon seven years ago.
He will not advance towards
liberalism unless he is sure that
it will pay in political calm
and economic advance. This
regime and its plans of indus-
trialisation will not take risks
for the sake of liberty. What is
significant is that Mao is
publicly emphasising the errors
of the 40-year-old Soviet revo-
lution while the Chinese revo-
lution is still so young. It will
be some time before we can
be sure that he has the skill
and courage to put into
practice his recent rhetorical
sally: ‘Let all flowers bloom;
let all schools of thought con-
tend.’ ”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian”: “It
[Mao’s speech] shows that
nearly all the many striking
pronouncements on many sub-
jects which have appeared in
the Chinese press in recent
months stem from this master
document. It has been the
grand directive on which every
Communist dignitary has
based himself. Its total effect
is to show Chinese Communism
as now thoroughly empirical.
The leaders of the Communist
State, though raised to power
partly by the impulse of Com-
munist doctrine, will now trim
that doctrine. They will regard
it as an important factor which
the politician must take into
account —but as one among
other factors. Similarly in the
West during many centuries
the temporal power has used
and adjusted the Christian
ideas.”
The same: “What is the
reason for the changes? A
totalitarian Government does
not make even a restricted
liberalisation without being
prompted by forces outside
itself. One which is impelling
Mao Tse-tung is almost cer-
tainly the events in the Com-
—London “Daily Mirror”
“RIDICULOUS, THERE AIN’T NO SUCH ANIMAL!”
munist world elsewhere. Mao
and Chou En-lai have an
imaginative grasp of political
trends, even though in the past
they have often worked on
limited or wrong information.
The untameable quality of the
human mind in Hungary and
Poland must have impressed
them, even though they
formally approved Russia’s
methods of reasserting Com-
munist power in Budapest. The
Chinese Government may have
decided that the best way of
avoiding a convulsion in China
is not to continue for too long
the absolutely inhuman
apparatus of the Communist
State.”
* * *
London “News Chronicle”:
“China is unlike any other
country in the world and its
600-million people have never
thought as others do. It is
entitled, if it wishes, to find its
own road to Communism.
But what Mao has just said can
influence Communism every-
where. Most of all will it affect
the Soviet satellites, where
China’s attitude has already
started a smouldering crisis.
The Poles are as delighted as
the official Hungarian Govern-
ment is furious. In Bulgaria
and Czechoslovakia the
authorities have so far even
banned discussion of the
Peking brand of Communist
thought.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “The
Chinese want to avoid the con-
sequences of repression which
were exemplified in the Hun-
garian rising. But even if the
Hungarian rising had not
occurred —with wiser men at
the helm it might have been
avoided—Mao’s doctrine of
contradictions and his advocacy
of letting all the flowers bloom
together might have been pro-
pounded all the same. The
Chinese Communists have
always been empirical. It was
by rejecting the Stalinist
doctrine and building-up their
strength on a basis of peasant
support that they were able to
defeat the Kuomintang.”
* * *
London “Economist” ; “The
key to Mr. Mao’s argument lies
in his distinction between the
conflict with the ‘enemy’ and
the conflict ‘among the people.’
Contradictions, he holds, can
exist even in a Socialist society,
and even between the people’s
Government and the governed.
But coercion should be reserved
for the real enemies of the
regime. One need not be a
cynic to argue that the dividing-
line between the ‘people’ and
the ‘enemies’ is elastic; any
dissenter need only be branded
as a counter-revolutionary to
justify giving him the rough
treatment. The speech does,
however, contain other indi-
cations that the Chinese leaders
now genuinely desire to avoid
domestic conflicts, because
‘once the struggle starts it is
liable to get out of hand.’ ”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“Mao's personal genius has
never been in doubt. The in-
genuity and imagination of his
military tactics defeated the
Kuomintang in China and the
French in the ominous battle of
Dien Bien Phu. The ingenuity
and imagination of his political
tactics have given him
tremendous prestige from
Djakarta to Warsaw and
enabled him to avoid Stalin’s
worst mistakes in the socialisa-
tion of his own country.
“Optimistic Western corn-
mentators are once more trying
to draw their two favorite con-
clusions. The first detects a
growing split in the monolithic
Communist bloc and suggests
that we need only play China
oft against Russia to find most
of our work done for us.. The
second infers that China has
now taken the lead in a policy
of liberalisation which makes
the regime quite acceptable in
civilised company.
“Unfortunately neither con-
clusion is justified. Mr. Mao
Tse-tung is far too wily a
statesman and far too passion-
ate a Communist to allow any
real break with Russia. He is
probably a more distinguished
expositor of Marxist philosophy
than any to be found in the
Soviet Union today. He is
perfectly able to distinguish
between his allies and his
enemies in the great task of
promoting the World Revolu-
tion and it does small credit to


Fuil/i in th e
Future
A recent issue of the Sydney Morning Herald
carried a splendid' supplement under the title
“Australia Unlimited.”
With articles contributed by national leaders
in their line, it gave a faithful and most
authoritative survey of this country’s resources and
opportunities.
We need more of this type of national appraisal
to help us realise what a gift and a blessing we have
in possession of this land.
For one thing—and this was brought out
admirably in the comprehensive report to which I
refer—we are getting more of a Northern direction
into our national thinking.
The emphasis in development until now has
been in areas where people have settled in their
numbers ; in cities and towns along the coast, or
in provinces that sustain themselves well in agri-
culture and stock-raising.
And all the time, as we have been reminded by
the dramatic discovery of minerals up near the top
of the continent, very much more awaits the finding,
the working, the investing.
This striking of a broader balance in settle-
ment and production does not surprise me. With-
out wishing to pose as a prophet, I believe I can
claim that this column has anticipated much of
what is beginning to unfold in Northern Australia.
For some time now, it has been a constant theme
of mine in these articles.
Without the slightest fear of straining predic-
tion, I would say that even greater things are
ahead—minerally, industrially, and in every
resultant way—than is held now in such brilliant
promise for the tropical half of Australia.
Many of the present generation will live to see
large centres of population raised in parts of the
North which are now-in wilderness.
And the wealth of their winning will shed its
benefits to the west and south and east, because
Australia is one, and her prosperous advancement
is ours for a common sharing.
// //cisT^f^
his sincerity to suppose that
Western diplomacy could turn
him into an apostate.
“ ‘Let all flowers bloom
together’ is not the vacuous
liberal slogan some people have
assumed it to be. Mao himself
makes a strict distinction
between ‘fragrant flowers and
poisonous weeds.’ As one of
his aides explained when the
new policy was first declared:
‘Writers must have complete
freedom to choose their own
subjects. They must be free
either to praise the new society
or to criticise the old.’ ”
* * *
Roscoe Drummond in New
York “Herald Tribune” : “Is
Mao really softening the
Chinese dictatorship—or only
talking about it? Note this
paragraph from his partially
reported speeches of last Feb-
ruary :
“ ‘ln dealing with enemies it
is necessary to use force. We
in China also have used force
to deal with enemies of the
people. The total number of
those who were liquidated by
our security forces numbers
800,000. This was the figure
up to 1954. Since then we are
no longer using methods of
terror.’
“Here Mao blandly con-
dones terror against those who
disagree with Communism. If
the rest of his statement means
anything, it means that the
Chinese Reds sheathe the use
of terror only when they are
sure that other methods of
‘persuasion’ will be adequate.”
* * *
“New York Times”: “Any
Government that is obliged to
massacre four-fifths of a million
persons to stay in power can
hardly be said to have a
popular mandate.
“The mass killings, according
to Mao Tse-tung, were stopped
in 1954, and since then the
regime has resorted to ‘per-
suasion.’ This is a euphemism.
A major part of the ‘persuasion’
is what the Red Chinese call
‘reform through labor.’ Chou
En-lai stated some time ago
that ‘more than 80 per cent, of
criminals detained have been
given work in agriculture or
industry.’ This means, in short,
that ‘persuasion’ is recruitment
for slave labor. Conservative
estimates place the number of
persons in this category at not
less than 10-million.
“Mao Tse-tung has admitted
that his regime has come to
power through government by
massacre. It is being sustained
through government by en-
forced slavery, in the. name of
’persuasion.’ ”
The same: “Three facts
emerge clearly from this
speech:
“First, there is now a great
amount of discontent in Com-
munist China. Mr. Mao tries
to minimise this discontent, but
that reality is clearly what
prompted this speech.
“Second, Mr. Mao and his
colleagues have concluded that
this discontent cannot be
quelled by physical repression
and murder such as were used
earlier. There are hints in his
speech of a fear that a return
to all-out brutality could spark
a catastrophic explosion.
“Finally, in Communist
China at least, Communist
leaders have had to face up to
the fallaciousness of a key
myth of modern Communist
ideology. This is the myth that
the bureaucratic Communist
State is identical in interests and
objectives with the mass of
exploited people who are its
subjects.”
Disarmament
Two views on disarmament,
with particular reference to
nuclear weapons and the test-
ing of them :
London “Economist”: “The
state of world relations in 1957
does not justify any expecta-
tion of large, magnanimous
measures of disarmament.
“Nato, its armaments and its
infrastructure, and the stock-
pile of American nuclear
striking-power that lies stacked
behind it, have not been built
up for trifling reasons. The
impelling motives of self-
preservation that caused them
to be built up are still there to
urge, insistently, that they
should be maintained. What,
we may—indeed, must—-ask,
has changed since 1949?
“One change has been
recognised in the new British
defence policy that seeks to
offset the cost of the new
weapons by -savings in the
numbers of men under arms—
though, admittedly, those
reductions have so far been
unilateral, without any
disarmament agreements.
Another change is that, the
two super-Powers having
accumulated stocks of nuclear
weapons, it has begun to be
asked whether the further
accumulation of their destruc-
tive devices will augment the
security of either.
“Britain has joined the race ,
if it goes on, how many other
Powers will join it? The two
super - Powers may be
approaching the point at which
they have a common interest
(their interest still being,


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
essentially, their self-preserva-
tion) in calling a halt. If so,
then they can safely defer to
the pressure of general human
opinion, alarmed by the
uncharted dangers to the
earth’s atmosphere from unre-
strained nuclear tests. But can
they?
“Obviously, neither of the
changes in the climate of the
armaments race would con-
ceivably justify the Western
alliance in throwing away, or
weakening in any essential,
either its military strength or
its strategic position.
“In conventional armaments
the West is still very much the
weaker side ; there is no case
for large demobilisations. In
nuclear armaments the West is
still almost certainly the
stronger side. It needs to keep
its preponderance; and this
requires swift improvement of
the means of delivering nuclear
explosives.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“The whole world would
breathe more freely if the
[nuclear] tests could be ended,
and the world would be right.
“Scientists still disagree
violently about the degree of
medical and genetic danger
involved in these tests. A
number of German scientists
have flatly refused to have
any more to do with making
nuclear weapons. Some two-
thousand American scientists
have expressed grave alarm
about the consequences if tests
continue and called for their
abolition. Other scientists,
equally sincere, maintain that
the increase of harmful radia-
tion in the earth’s atmosphere
has been grossly exaggerated.
The layman is in no position
to judge between them. But
that grave dangers exist seems
certain and, other things being
equal, it would be the merest
common sense to avoid the
risk.
“Unfortunately other things
are not equal. Nuclear weapons
have been and still are the
chief barrier between the
Western world and its enemies.
Those good people who say
that the dangers of radiation
are worse than anything our
enemies could do were given
yet another in a grim series
of answers by Mao Tse-tung.
He told Chinese party-leaders
that his security forces
‘liquidated’ 800,000 persons
between October, 1949, and the
beginning of 1954. This is a
conservative figure, taking no
account, for instance, of the
thousands who died in prison
and forced-labor camps, but it
is surely impressive enough to
justify taking very considerable
—London “Daily Mail ”
HEAT WAVE
risks in order to prevent
similar liquidations in other
countries.
“To stop the tests and
simultaneously to stop the
production of nuclear material
for military use might be one
thing: to stop the tests while
allowing the accumulation of
nuclear weapons to continue is
quite another. The Russians
are demanding the abolition of
tests, but have so far refused
to halt manufacture. By
putting hydrogen-bombs out
of sight and out of mind, this
might allay public fears, but it
wculd not necessarily decrease
the much graver danger of a
nuclear war. The risks involved
in tests are clearly to be pre-
ferred to any increase in the
risk of war.
“A similar difficulty under-
mines suggestions to stop tests
by agreement for any con-
siderable period of time. A
totalitarian State with absolute
control of its scientific labor-
force could keep its teams of
atomic scientists and tech-
nicians together and in a high
state of readiness for a period
of time during which the
defences of a free society would
disintegrate.
“Could any responsible
Government take this kind of
risk under present conditions?
For the fundamental difficulty
goes deeper yet. Disarmament
is not an end in itself. It must
be related to the general risk
of war, and the world can
never be free from tension
while the rulers of a third of
its surface proclaim their in-
flexible determination to
destroy the society which sub-
sists in the other two-thirds.
The Western nations are forced,
contrary to their inclination
and their financial interest, to
maintain a high level of
armaments against the possi-
bility of direct attack by an
enemy who already foments
and subsidises armed insurrec-
tion in their colonial depend-
encies and seeks by organised
subversion to wreck their
internal economies.”
Australia and Japan
On the assumption that the
trade discussions in Tokyo will
result in Australia according
Japan “most-favored-nation
status, thus placing her on the
same tariff-levels as France,
Italy, Western Germany, Bel-
gium and other European pro-
ducers,” Bradford “Wool
Record” forecasts rather
gloomily that, while British
goods will retain the advantage
of Empire Preference, “it is
likely that these margins will
be reduced in the course of
time, for Australia gave notice
last year of her intention to
reduce the preference our
[Britain’s] goods at present
enjoy in the Commonwealth
market”:
“Thus we may see British
exports to Australia caught in
a pincer-movement, with Japan
moving in from one side with
the benefit of lower production-
costs and m.-f.-n. tariffs and
our Empire Preference margins
being shorn on the other side.
The Australian Government
will probably take good care
that domestic industries do not
suffer in the process, as they
undoubtedly would if cheap
Japanese goods flooded into
the country. It is obviously the
intention to let Japan capture
trade from other countries
supplying the Australian
market, and it does not look as
if many tears will be shed if
one of the first victims is
Britain.
“The British wool-textile
industry has, quite rightly,
made a strong protest against
the Australian Government’s
attitude. It objects to the im-
plication that Japan’s purchases
have been responsible for the
buoyancy of the wool-market,
when Britain’s purchases have
been larger and more
consistent. Australia has
always acknowledged the debt
she owes the British industry
for being her leading wool
customer for a century-and-a-
half —ever since the first bale
of Merino fleece left Botany
Bay.
“Now Japan is challenging
our supremacy, and this season
the value of her purchases is
not much less than Britain’s
(in the 10 months ended April
this year the comparative
figures were £A96 million and
£A79 million respectively). The


■
vA
MSUMI'IIV Mi
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
Prices from
29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
G 0 K W A V I T I f I 8 T A 8 1. 1 TO. I • I I • •
indications are that Japan’s
astounding expansion of wool-
usage during the last 18 months
will be continued in the future,
though at a declining rate of
increase.
“Naturally, Australia wishes
to keep her custom and offer
a quid pro quo. There is a
yawning gap in the trade
between the two countries:
last year Australia sold £AIO6
million worth of goods to
Japan but bought in return only
£A 16 million worth. The great
increase in Japanese purchases
of wool has without doubt
helped to put Australia back
on her feet, and the trade rela-
tions between them are develop-
ing to a stage at which Australia
will be bound to grant Japan
the same trading rights as other
non-Commonwealth countries.
“At the same time, we see
no reason why Japan should
be hailed as the saviour of Aus-
tralia’s wool-trade. Britain is
still the mainstay of the market
and, with Western Europe, will
remain Australia’s best and
most reliable customer for
many years to come. Japan’s
threat that she may have to
turn elsewhere for wool is a
bluff that the Australians
should easily see through.”
South African
Color-bar
Commenting on the South
African Government’s decision
to close the Universities of
Cape Town and Witwatersrand
to non-white students —and on
the protest by the Convocation
of Oxford University against
such a distinction “York-
shire Post” suggests that
“there may be a few criticisms
of such a move at home [in
Britain] ; there, will certainly be
some in South Africa”:
“Some objectors will refuse
to see that it is the business
of a University [Oxford] in a
land far away, that ‘does not
know the problems’ (the
favorite escape - clause), to
meddle in affairs not its own.
But when academic freedom is
threatened, it is the vital con-
cern of everyone who believes
in it to speak out.
“One of the chief obstacles
that is supposed to face the
acceptance of the colored native
in South Africa as a citizen
with rights of equality is his
comparative lack of education.
To deny him that education
is to try to preserve the uneasy
status quo ; but the inevitability
of progress, and the hunger
of those waiting to be taught,
can brook no specious denial.
— N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
“TRUST IN GOD AND KEEP YOUR POWDER DRY.”
“Another objection will be
that such a gesture, from so far
away, can have no practical
value. With this also we dis-
agree. For some time now—
much to the discomfiture of the
South African Government —
world attention has been fixed
on the conduct of affairs in that
country.
“The Universities of South
Africa have already made their
own courageous protest against
the Government’s policy, by
protest marches and demon-
strations. It must be abundantly
clear that university opinion
there is against such racial
discrimination.
“But the voice of one of the
world’s great Universities,
raised in disinterested protest,
is certain to be heard above
the hubbub. Oxford has made
a stand for the right.”
Commonwealth Trade
London “Financial Times’s”
plea for “major consideration
of Commonwealth trade”—
occasioned by the Prime
Ministers’ conference in
London:
“European trade since the
war has been expanded despite
most serious difficulties,
despite the chronic weakness of
France, despite the division of
Germany, despite the continu-
ing high .rate of unemployment
in Italy.
“A major reason for that
achievement has been the
creation of two European
economic institutions, the
European Payments Union to
deal with exchange, and the
Organisation for European
Economic Co-operation to
integrate and strengthen Euro-
pean economic policies.
“There are people in Britain
who have been so impressed
by the success of these bodies
that they beilieve Common-
wealth economic expansion to
be a doomed cause, and would
have Britain concentrate on
Europe alone.
“A much more justified
policy would be to give the
Commonwealth the advantages
that Europe has had and has
thrived on. It should after all
be a matter for shame that
all the Commonwealth ties
should not have been rein-
forced by the most obvious
agencies of economic co-
operation.
“Commonwealth economic
expansion will indeed not be
achieved by the tardy and
irregular consideration which
is all that it now receives.”
Various Voices
General Norstad (Com-
mander-in-Chief Nato forces in
Europe): “The Soviet foe must
always face the decision, ‘lf
I deliberately start a war I will
be destroyed.’ I think he is
faced with that today and it
is something that we ought
to be very certain we always
keep him faced with. It is not
dependent on whether or not
he has atomic capability, as
long as we have the capability,
the known capability, and the
will to use it.”
Vice-President Nixon: “We
must never assume that dis-
armament on even a large scale
will remove the danger of war.
A lasting peace cannot be built
on the foundation of disarma-
ment alone. We must continue
to work unceasingly to remove
the tensions which have made
the world an armed camp. We
know that we can have real
peace in the world only when
we have understanding among
people as well as among
diplomats.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Politics and Banking
The Leader of the Opposi-
tion in the Victorian State
Parliament (Mr, Cain) has been
making very trenchant remarks
about the position of the
Bolte Government and what he
describes as its imprudent
handling of the State’s finances.
As an ex-Premier of Victoria
Mr. Cain should know what he
is talking about, and when he
refers to Victoria’s drift to-
wards bankruptcy he no doubt
expects his remarks to be taken
seriously.
The Victorian Government
is guarantor for approximately
£262 million of deposits in the
State savings-bank, a fact
stressed by the commissioners
of the bank on every possible
occasion.
Mr. Cain’s disturbing obser-
vations regarding the State’s
financial position were broad-
cast by the A.8.C., and one
wonders how they were
received by all those people
who hold State savings-bank
passbooks. They certainly
would not be comforted to
hear about a drift towards
bankruptcy on the part of their
guarantor.
The State savings-bank has
already lost considerable busi-
ness to other banks in the
savings-bank field, and when
politicians (of any party) raise
doubts as to the solvency of
a State Government which
stands guarantor for a savings-
bank they should consider
what could be the result of
their remarks.
The Royal Commission on
Banking (set up by the Chifley
Government) had this to say in
dealing with the failure of the
Government Savings Bank of
New South Wales: “The
failure does not reflect dis-
credit upon the management of
the bank. The cause of the
failure was political rather
than financial, and the respon-
sibility must be borne by those
whose conduct created appre-
hension in the minds of
depositors.”
Those observations are very
much to the point at the
moment. —C. E. Gardiner
(Vic.).
A Real Labor Policy”
By and large, I have no
quarrel with “Reveille” (B.
12/6/’57). A political move-
ment rooted in sectarianism is
worth watching what has
happened in the past can con-
ceivably happen in the future —
but an infusion of religion into
politics is needed the world
over.
Whatever their adherents
practise, all Christian sects
enjoin tolerance, charity, and
fair dealing between man and
man, and morality in public
life. We need rulers with those
virtues.
“ What's new?"
“Reveille’s” par. reached me
on the day that Brisbane
“Courier-Mail” reported the
closing scenes- of Queensland’s
current Parliament. It exposed
what must surely be the lowest
level to which Parliamentary
debate has ever sunk in this
country, and cast doubts on the
mentality of the people who
elected those oafs to represent
and govern them year after
year.
The present dust-up is part
of the war between Com-
munism and Catholicism for
control of the Labor party,
with the other “isms” stand-
ing by, too proud or something
to fight. I believe Mr. Santa-
maria to be a starry-eyed
crusader, but he has a camp-
following of professional
politicians who may bog the
campaign down. If not given
adequate support (or stiffening)
these will presently make some
kind of peace with their
opponents, and “Labor” will
be “united” again before the
next Federal elections.
Compromise with traitors,
industrial saboteurs and
grafters is too great a price to
pay for unity.
If “Reveille’s” anti-“ism”-ists
miss this admirable oppor-
tunity to have a good spring-
cleaning, then in three or four
years’ time we shall probably
find Communism - cum - gang-
sterism firmly in the saddle
again in most of the States and
in Canberra. If there were no
other alternative I would prefer
Catholicism ; but there are
other alternatives.
In the article to which
“Reveille” refers, I outlined
what seems to me best and
most practical—two-way co-
operation between the Catholic
Right-wing and moderate non-
Catholics, with a new Labor
platform and policy.— Jas.
Macansh (Q ).
Municipal Libraries
If “Eureka’s” condemnation
of free municipal libraries
were justified (B. 19 /6 / ’57),
then Andrew Carnegie was a
fool —and fools do not
generally make huge fortunes.
In my father’s time Carnegie
advertised that he would pay
a large monetary reward for
the best suggestion as to how
he could spend part of his
fortune for the benefit of the
masses —without doing some-
body harm. The suggestion he
chose as the best resulted in
the Carnegie libraries spread
throughout America and
Britain.
. Since “Eureka” objects to
municipal libraries on a much
more parochial plane by quot-
ing Fairfield Municipality
(N.S.W.), I’ll present the rest
of the picture.
The Fairfield municipal
library allows residents to take
out two books at a time: one
fiction, the other non-fiction.
The fiction, far from merely
“providing free murder-
mysteries, romance and the
like,” includes the best authors ;
and the non-fiction covers a
sweeping and highly interesting
range. The books favorably
reviewed on The Bulletin’s
Red Page and elsewhere gener-
ally appear in the local library
within two or three months,
and the fact .that there is a
waiting-list for most of them
answers “E.’s” statement as
to the kind of literature
demanded.
Perhaps the mobile library
was premature ; still, it caters
for the people in the outlying
districts and, after all, they
are the greatest sufferers if the
service eats up money that
could have been spent improv-
ing some bad roads. It is worth
noting, too, that the teachers
of those schools “farther out”
laud the mobile library.
Good roads, of course, are
desirable in any community,
but if no other municipal
advancement may be under-
taken while there are bad roads


in a district, why single out
one form of recreation for
curtailment? Cricket- and
football-fields cost councils
considerable sums in initial out-
lay and upkeep, but no
sensible person would suggest
they be sacrificed. Exercise of
the body is a fine thing, but
surely no more important than
exercise of the mind!
Strangely, although “Eureka”
attacked Fairfield’s libraries as
a' drain on funds that should
be used on improving roads,
he did not mention that the
municipal council spent, and is
still spending, huge sums of
money on a trotting-track
which probably has no interest
for many residents and rate-
payers who derive pleasure
from the libraries. Those people
could say, with just as much
truth: “If that money had
been spent on the roads, there
wouldn’t be a bad road in the
municipality.”
Every ratepayer is entitled to
some return for his money.
Why shouldn't a council
provide facilities for mental
recreation as generously as
for physical?— Fairf (N.S.W.).
Bankruptcy
Many small businesses are
doomed to bankruptcy before
they start (“Xavier,’" B.
22/5/’57).
The end of World War I saw
a revival of the “domestic
industry” type of business.
Small shops of every kind,
founded on limited capital and
with limited potential, were
started by men because they
“hated working for a boss.”
It’s the same sort of urge
that drives people on to poor
land “because they always
wanted to be farmers.”
Most of these businesses
haven’t a chance. The depres-
sion killed them off in hundreds
and now the same thing is
-happening again. The large
chain-stores and drive-ins, with
outstanding presentation and
choice of goods, are pushing
more and more small shops out.
The usual result is the Bank-
ruptcy Court, because the
owners hang on to the death
and won’t give in.
A recent American survey
showed that out of every 100
small businesses started each
year, 25 were doomed to failure
before they got going. A
further 50 closed down before
the owners went bankrupt.
The remaining 25 plugged on
in the face of intense competi-
tion from larger organisations.
An analysis of these 25 showed
that net returns never worked
out to a working wage when
compared with the overtime
worked by the owners. They
would have been better off
working for a boss.
In my town there are 15
empty grocer-shops alone, as
well as the ghosts of many
other businesses. The owners
knew enough about the game
but dwindling trade caused by
competition from the “cash-
and carry’s” closed them.
These men were wise. They
saw the writing on the wall and
got out.
An ignorance of business
fundamentals is one cause of
failure, but it’s no good trying
to push back the tide. Want-
ing to be in business is not good
enough if the business isn't
there. — Robbie (Q.).
German Industry
There is plenty of evidence
of West Germany’s intentions
of challenging all and sundry
for supremacy in world
commerce. During the first
quarter of this year, no less
than eight Cabinet Ministers
from Bonn took flight to other
parts of the globe and. whether
or not their normal jobs were
connected with trade, their
journeys were almost entirely
concerned with the furthering
of their country’s commerce
with the outside world. The
old Nazi slogan of Drang nach
CEsten is again in practice, but
this time the push eastwards is
not for possession of the
Ukraine or of any other
territory, but to the markets of
the East —Middle and Far.
At the highly successful
Trade Fair in Hanover, of the
74 countries represented by
buying groups, 11 were from
the Far East. Senior Ministers
or officials of the Bonn Depart-
ment of Trade had already
broken the ground with these
Asian countries ; and it was
made certain that almost every
country from Burma to Korea
had delegations at the Fair.
At the moment, the West
German Government is foster-
ing every effort of the ship-
yards in the north to enable
them to increase their output
of freighters pari passu with
the astonishing increase in the
country’s exportable surplus. It
is on the cards that before the
end of this decade the Govern-
ment will have achieved this
ambition and may even lead
the world in freighter-construc-
tion.
These results will have been
accomplished not only by the
resolution and vigor with which
the German Government and
people have attacked the
apparently heartbreaking
problem of rehabilitating their
dismembered and shattered
.country, but by two othei
factors, less spectacular but of
equal importance.
First, there has been a con-
sistent and systematic building-
up of the scientific and technical
branches of education to main-
lain the supply of personnel to
industry.
Second, for several years
past the labor-problem of
West Germany has been
relieved to a great extent
through the inflow of German
refugees from the Soviet zone
These people have been pour-
ing into the Western zone at
from 3000 to 5000 weekly
during the past year the higher
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 442
Across
I—Ehca1 —Ehca gives a good reason for not bowing. (8)
s—Crazier pigment. (6)
9 Nommag is game. (10)
10 — In place of the evil habit. (4)
11— Art isn’t to be found in this crossing. (7)
12— Clubs are taken in hand by’ such when the bounder
croaks. (7)
14 —Surrenders. (6)
16 —A fortification article after blush-
ing about a lion-tamer. (5)
21— Don’t stop barring the river
wandered turning Pytheas's
friend. (5)
22— Finn associated with this timber-
worker. (6)
24 —Mount which makes Adamson’s
mother relax. (7)
26—Transfixes the little devil with
beers. (7)
28— This makes a Norse god love
pandemonium. (4)
29— Weight for the King Island diary
to crash headlong into me. (10)
30— Aromatic plant initiating hot
yellow sparks shooting over
Palestine. (6)
31 — Tune equipment for fishing
communications. (8)
Down
1 — Rigging q comment on the last
elections. (8)
2 — Flower has much in common
with 18-down. (8)
3 — Watchdog crushed sugar. (5)
4 — African laughter with a tiny
creature. (6)
6 — Giant - killer makes coppers
voracious. (5)
7— Gives a wide berth to the little
Esmond jaw-actions. (7)
8 — Encroaches upon another’s game
post-office pains. (7)
13 —Drop a show which is no comedy.
(5)
15 —A famous English bowler who
might wish to get a duck? (5)
17 — One side of a shilling rabbit. (7)
18 — Clemency is to be expected from
such bike-riders. (8)
19 — On behalf of others they manage
corrosion in the driving places. (8)
20 — 54 in the manner of those with
nothing to do furiously. (7)
23—It turned up the first volume;
variety is to be expected in it. (6)
25 —Film producer’s rows. (5)
27 —By the Italian danger. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 441


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
1
Hi
4:
■ :
m
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE —ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies In all Country Centres
figure has been nearer the
average number of Germans
who have taken risks in order
to get away from the Soviet
zone. Among these are large
numbers of skilled and semi-
skilled men and women, whose
addition to the labor-force of
the West has been of con-
siderable help to the economy.
This obvious intention of
Western Germany to follow a
vigorous trade policy in the
Far East, together with the
U.K.’s new policy towards Red
China, makes one ask how
Australian trade policy pro-
poses to face-up to the threats
confronting our protected
industries. Are we to remain
in stagnant satisfaction with
the present protected home-
market, or will we go after
lome of the ever-expanding
markets of the near North
—and go after them in earnest
before the Old World resumes
its domination of half a
century ago.— Fred Aarons
(N.S.W.).
Is Hard Work Necessary?
Ever since I started work
more than 30 years ago I’ve
been told to work hard. Mostly
I have, although there have
been some periods in my life
when I’ve loafed a little. This
has happened both when I’ve
been working for a boss and
when I’ve been my own master.
Generally I like my work,
which is partly creative, but at
times I get fed up with it, and
wish that economic necessity
and the imminence of old age
didn’t drive me quite so hard
Just at the moment I’m in
the kind of situation, with
family illnesses and so on,
which makes it needful to earn
all I can, and so I’m going flat-
out five days a week, and doing
a good deal on the other two
days. (This is one of the periods
when I’m on my own, so there
are no legal or union restric-
tions.) I don’t like this. Apart
from the fact that I tend to get
a bit stale on the job, I think
“I've found a REAL little boy from Mars, Dad!"
it isn’t the way man was
intended to live.
All the economists tell us
the country must produce more,
that people must go at things
more energetically, that men
and machinery must increase
output. They say, and they’ve
been saying for years, that
hard work will reduce costs and
allow this country to compete
with others in the competitive
markets of the world. No one,
of course, is really spurred on
by the idea that his country is
going to reap the economic
benefit, so that its top public
servants, including the afore-
said economists, can get a bit
more each fortnight.
The real urge is more money
to buy more things, and this is
where I begin to think the
whole system is haywire. I
believe the axiom that posses-
sions mean worry, and that
simplification of life is the real
road to happiness provided
one can afford, in the simple
life, one or two luxuries like
books and beer. I can make
do with plain food, early nights,
no car or TV, and a minimum
of clothing needs. (It will be
realised that my family has
grown up and left the roost,
and that I have a wife with
similar tastes, except for beer,
to my own.)
I don’t think that hard work
is the answer to anything. Good
work, when work is needed, is
essential, and plenty of time for
thinking is also required. There
should be more time for the
simple pleasures of outdoor
living when the climate permits,
of reading, of yarns around the
fireside with a bottle or two,
and of contemplation. In my
present preoccupation with
work, most of these things are
denied me, and I’m finding that
the pace of business is getting
more and more feverish, that
plenty of my compatriots are
contracting ulcers or worse,
that reading, and even con-
structive thinking, are reduced
to a minimum by the combined
demands of business and what
is termed “pleasure.”
Surely a country like Aus-
tralia should be able to show
the world something better,
and perhaps surprise itself and
everyone else by producing, in
consequence, some really
constructive ideas for the world
in general. Possibly, when I
get time, I’ll come up with
one or two myself. —Simpleton
(N.S.W.).
Tobacco
Australian tobaccos need not
be “dry, rank and coarse” (B.
29/5/’57). The best Australian
leaf compares favorably with
the world’s best in texture,
moisture-content, etc., and
samples from the Texas and
Mareeba districts of Queens-
land have won many prizes in
international shows.
The taste is another matter ;
it is not worse than the
Virginian and Turkish
varieties, but it is certainly
different. There are many
theories to account for this,
the most popular being that
the Australian leaf is flavored
by a taint of eucalyptus in the
soil; but many years ago one
of the Agriculture Departments
imported some hundreds of
tons of soil from the U.S.A.
and grew some tobacco in that.
It still tasted different.
A more recent and more likely
theory is that the Australian
conditions cannot quite repro-
duce the light, sandy soil and
long succession of cloudy,
humid days that are found in
the U.S.A. Another factor is


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
s
jACKbOM $
o'suixivAisr
. vnua ~
Jackson & O'Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•‘JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
the way. And it is no use call-
ing the books Cadet Editions
and hoping to fool the kids that
way. When The Cruel Sea
came out, with an approving
foreword by a Bishop, our
library edition was not much
thumbed. But it did lead to the
reading of the adult version by
a group of teenagers who
would not otherwise have
bothered to find out what the
Bishop was so glad to see
omitted. What is more, the
kids freely admit why they
scorn the gelded version.
Altogether it is a frank age.
Sometimes the printer still uses
a euphemistic “d n” or
“b b but it is not
hard to know the boy who will,
in reading aloud, fill the blanks
with an accuracy that never
astonishes me.
What does astonish me is
that some teachers can still
marvel at the wealth of surrep-
titious misinformation a 15-
year-old boy has amassed.
That brings me finally to the
polite fiction all teachers and
pupils maintain among them-
selves ; that in spite of statistics,
common sense, and the fact
that a girl occasionally leaves
school in a hurry, everyone
must pretend that every child
is an individual of unexampled
innocence and purity. It is, of
course, the only logical stand
to take, but if the teacher
believes it, English literature
has not made much impact on
him.
Meanwhile, it takes much
more than erudition to teach
Shakspeare—or the modern
and outspoken writers who are
now making minor incursions
into approved school texts.
the inclusion in locally-made
smokes of the crushed tobacco-
stems, which by themselves
taste much like straw and
certainly do nothing to improve
the flavor.
Yet another reason is the
growers’ concentration on
quantity rather than quality,
but this problem is not con-
fined to Australia, for the
Governments of most tobacco-
growing countries now have
subsidy - schemes based on
acreage rather than quality
produced. Nicodemus
(N.S.W.).
Comics
Summing-up the comments
of several writers on this page
over a long period for and
against the general effect of
comics on the child mind, I
suggest that comics:
Harmlessly amuse children
of tender years ;
Entertain and often
encourage the habit of better
reading in children of the
middle group, while sometimes
adversely affecting a child of
lower than normal mentality ;
Inspire criticism in older
children which usually leads to
their abandoning them
entirely.
It seems, therefore, that
addiction to comics is merely
another phase of modern child-
hood and as such (always bar-
ring the odd vicious type) leaves
no marked or lasting impression
one way or the other upon the
average child.—P. O. M. C.
(N.S.W.).
Handwriting
For the benefit of countless
clerks, typists, business execu-
tives, editors and others, a
reform in handwriting is long
overdue.
Conventional copperplate
round-hand does not meet the
demand of modern usage. The
result is that, notwithstanding
the typewriter, all too many
have to puzzle over outlandish
hieroglyphics which defy the
most intense efforts at inter-
pretation.
By contrast, even
moderately-well-written italic
is legible and time-saving.
Using a pen with an edge
instead of a point and holding
it at a. wider angle to the paper,
the thick and thin strokes come
“Hoping this finds you as it leaves me. .."
more naturally without pres-
sure. However fast it is written
it need not become formless or
unreadable.
Italic handwriting may be
applied to any good-quality
paper. An edged pen gives a
beauty of gradation, but a com-
petent writer can write fluently
with a pencil or bail-point pen.
Skilled or novice, a writer can
acquire legibility and he need
not be slow.
Nerve-centre of the italicists
is in London, from where the
Society of Italic Handwriting
has spread its influence to £uch
widely-separated countries as
Norway, Uganda, South
Africa, America and Australia.
The society claims that the
essential legibility of italic
script saves both time and
money' in commerce. It
numbers among its adherents
the names of Viscount Samuel,
Sir Edward Bridges, Lord
Tennyson, Sir Francis Mey-
nell, Walter Lippmann and
Walt Disney.
The style is no stranger to
some Australian schools, par-
ticularly in Sydney and Mel-
bourne. A number of Vic-
torian schools have taught the
system in recent years with
encouraging results, and a
Melbourne branch of the
society is now being con-
sidered. —Xavier (Vic.).
[ln support of “Xavier’s” plea
—any plea, in fact —for better
handwriting, it may be aoted
that the combined efforts of
two sub-editors, two proof-
readers and a linotype-operator
finally deciphered this hiero-
glyphic from a Bulletin
contribution —as “percussion.”]


Russian Comfrey
For' Farm, Garden or Small-holding
1. Has been authoritatively rated
with Italian ryegrass for feed-
ing value.
2. Thrives in Australian sunny
conditions and yields up to one
ton a day from only 15 acres
with good management.
3. Outyields all other fodder crops
with 100 tons an acre, and has
exceeded all other crops in pro-
tein (33.08%).
4. Has very great drought resist-
ance. and persists for up to 40
years without deteriorating.
Does not seed, sucker or get
out of control.
5. Is valuable calf-rearing food,
and cows and calves love it!
6. Produces great quantities of
feed when pasture is scarce,
and causes heavy milk-flow.
7. Does not scour or bloat, ban-
ishes intestinal and digestive
troubles. Has low fibre con-
tent for pigs and poultry.
8. Is palatable to sheep, goats
and horses also, and is mineral
rich owing to very deep root
system.
.9. Has no insect pests, is not
touched by rabbits, and is very
hardy.
10. Is easier to establish, longer in
cut and higher in yield than
lucerne. Is tasty vegetable.
Send for introductory booklet giving
my farm, experiments with this crop,
and book for Spring planting with
pioneer grower.
W. F. SAVAGE,
GREEN FARM, RED HIDE SXH,
VICTORIA,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
YEAR OF PROGRESS
'T'HE Water Research Founda-
tion of Australia, a
research-organisation supported
by donations from private
individuals, pastoral interests
and industrial concerns, is now
a year old. Details of its aims,
objectives, and organisation
were given in a previous issue
of The Bulletin.
As the foundation is con-
cerned with research into
“The supply, use, treatment,
control and disposal of water
in Australia,” there is a com->
munity of interest with all those
working on the land or lfi the
industries associated with it.
The work which the foundation
has done and is planning to
do is of value to the whole of
the Commonwealth as well as
to its own members.
In the year since its incor-
poration as a non-profit-making
company on June 21, 1956, the
research-committee of the
foundation has prepared a
programme covering some of
the unsolved problems con-
cerning water in this country,
Until recently the pro-
cess which removed burrs
and seed from wool
before it could be spun
into yarn not only weak-
ened the fibres but also
caused a wool-loss of
about eight per cent. As
the result of a new tech-
nique loss has now been
reduced to only three
per cent, and the fibres
are much stronger. It is
estimated that the in-
creased annual value of
Australian wool so
treated will be nearly
£1,000,000. Better tech-
niques in the wool in-
dustry are constantly
being evolved. One
which is of considerable
benefit to the grazier is
the Elastrator Rubber
Ring method of marking
and tailing lambs. When
correctly applied these
rings are protection
against loss, fly-strike and
other diseases arising
from germ-infection.
and has made a start on this
programme. It is realised that
large sums of money are
required for many research-
projects, and as the foundation
is limited by donations received
totalling £15,000 to date, it has
restricted itself to those fields
which promise quick and useful
results.
A statement last month by
Sir lan Clunies Ross, chairman
of C.5.1.R.0., is interesting:
It is true that we cannot as yet
see our way to overcoming the effects
“’ Struth! He IS superstitious !”
of drought over much of the
continent.
There is much, however, that we
can already do. The work of
Geddes, at the McGarvie Smith
Animal Husbandry Farm, and of
Yeomans, at Richmond, has shown
how we may overcome the uncer-
tainty of rainfall: On the one
hand, by conserving for irrigation
purposes all the water that falls on
the land and, on the other, by
ensuring that all the rain goes into
the soil rather than down creeks and
rivers to the sea.
This comment, which
appeared in a Sydney “Herald”
supplement on June 19,
1957, is relevant to the
foundation’s . first achieve-
ment : Research Bulletin
No. 1, by John R. Bqrton, on
the “Engineering Aspects of
Water Harvesting and the
Keyline Plan.” This bulletin is
a comprehensive description
and evaluation of the two tech-
niques of Water Harvesting and
the Keyline Plan. It should
assist landholders to develop
their properties along secure
and profitable lines.
Water Harvesting is a self-
contained irrigation project
which keeps portion of a
property in a relatively un-
developed state so as to act as
watershed and give runoff
which can be stored in farm-
ponds. The water is drawn
from these storages at appro-
priate times so as to intensively
irrigate the balance of the
property.
The Keyline Plan, on the
other hand, is a system of
progressive land-development
based on the improvement of
soil-structure and fertility by
using a novel pattern of culti-
vation. It incorporates soil-
an d pasture - development,
water-conservation and irriga-
tion, erosion-control, tree-
planting and farm-planning.
These techniques may well have
many applications in other
parts of Australia than those
where they have already been
tried.
The foundation is also pro-
viding funds for work on the
following projects:
Water Harvesting: Funds
have been provided for a
research Fellow at Sydney Uni-
versity to investigate the further
development of water-harvest-
ing. The technique of water-
harvesting has been applied by
H. J. Geddes at Badgery’s Creek
and is a practical example of a
self - contained irrigation-
system in an area of low and
unreliable rainfall. The founda-
tion considers that a research-
worker on this project will
develop these techniques
further and advance this useful
field of knowledge.
Land Treatment: A research
Fellow has been appointed to
the N.S.W. University of
Technology to look into “ the
efficacy of land treatment in
water-conservation and flood-
mitigation.” Bulletin readers
are probably well aware of the
effects which crops, tillage,
fertiliser, forests, etc., have
upon the amount of water
which is retained in or runs off
from the land. However, it is
essential to evaluate the effec-
tiveness of these land-treatment
methods. The N.S.W. Depart-
ments of Conservation and
Agriculture will co-operate with
the foundation on this very
important project.
Green Algce: A research
Fellow has been appointed at
the N.S.W. University of Tech-
nology to investigate ‘‘the
growth of green algce in sewage
as a method of sewage-treat-
ment.” No one will deny
that some methods of sewage-
disposal are wasteful of water
and valuable plant-materials.
This research proposes to grow
water-weeds in sewage as a
means of purifying it and
obtaining a useful stock-food.
Pilot-plants on this process
have shown great promise
overseas, and it is with full
confidence that the foundation
is co-operating with the Metro-
politan Water, Sewerage and
Drainage Board in an attempt
to adapt it to Australian con-
ditions. This could revolu-
tionise systems of sewage-
disposal in country towns as
well as in capital cities.
Self-spillway Dams: Funds
are to be provided for a
research Fellow at Melbourne


IMWmHnP'!
mmm
m
*' ...;.......J
■-
An Ames engineered “Roto-Rain” rotary
sprinkler system will give you rain to
order ... a uniform, natural application.
This brings fullest results in crop
stimulations, effective use of fertilizers,
and maximum benefits from avail-
able water supplies. In short,
super yields every year! Ames
Irrigation is engineered to suit your
own farming. Climate, soil, water
source, crops, available labour and power
are all studied and co-ordinated. Ames
highly portable, lightweight aluminium
piping, famous self-sealing ABC couplers
and a bigger range of irrigation equip-
ment than any other manufacturer can
offer, ensure you of a well-balanced,
water-saving, labour-saving system.
Plan now for
SUPER YIELDS
with
7/
*T«tU>« MMH
*
■
Don't be satisfied
with enough rainfall.
Get thicker crops—
even two crops where
you once got one, with
Ames "Roto-Rain."
IRRIGATION
OTHER AMES SYSTEMS:
• "Tow-a-line" and "Wheel-O-Rain" — highly
portable "Roto-Rain" sprinkler systems.
• "Perf-O Rain" low pressure, overhead
sprinkling.
• "Lo-Nead"—Gated Pipe for controiied-
furrow watering.
ABC Coupler locks Itself
—g ires 22° flexibility at
each joint. No hooks, no
clips.
ft
\
IRRIGATE
NOW!
YOU OWE IT
TO YOUR FUTURE
MAIL TODAYS
IRRIGATE NOW—You »w« Hto grout futor«l MAIL TO-DAT
easy terms available
Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
VICTORIA :
QUEENSLAND :
SOUTH AUSTRALIA :
WESTERN AUSTRALIA :
TASMANIA r
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD., 10-14 Young St., Sydney, BU 5095. And
at Lismore, Wagga, Hay, Young and Orange.
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH (VIC.) PTY. LTD., Stubbs Street, Flemington,
Melbourne.
LEVIN & CO. LTD., Margaret Street, Brisbane. WILLIAMS OF ROCKHAMPTON.
DALGETY & CO., Townsville and Cairns.
Levin & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers Ltd., Perth.
H. D. Cruickshank, Hobart.


60% EVAPORATION CONTROL
IS NOW POSSIBLE WITH THE
jum-awmooM
f;
m
im
§;■-
tm&mmm
s.
m
>•-
w
WllM°
SEAL
RO
M
Mm
Wilcox Mofflin have pleasure in announcing their
appointment as Australian distributors for the Alcet
Anti-Evaporation Raft, the raft which tests have proven
can restrict evaporation by from 25% to 60%.
Simply place 2£lbs. of Wilmo
Si-Ro-Seal (hexadeconol) in
the Alcet Raft. Next suitably
position the raft or rafts in the
dam and anchor with the
nylon lines provided. A thin
invisible film of hexadeconol
is then exuded oveV the surface
of the water, and so evapora-
tion is immediately restricted.
# Weighing only 201bs. and
measuring approximately 3ft.
square and 6in. deep, the
Alcet is made from long-
lasting glass fibre reinforced
with polyester resin impreg-
nated with aluminium. The
Alcet Raft contains an integral
float chamber at each end
which ensures that the raft
floats consistently, without
adjustment at the correct level.
THESE FLOAT CHAMBERS
CONTAIN EXPANDABLE
POLYSTYRENE, WHICH
MAKE THE ALCET RAFT
UNSINKABLE EVEN
THOUGH IT MAY, FOR
SOME REASON, BECOME
DAMAGED OR HOLED.
0 Estimated life 20 years.
0 It reflects heat and is
impervious to weather and
water. Owing t-o its excep-
tionally long life the cost of
an Alcet Raft, and one year’s
supply of Wilmo Si-Ro-Seal is
extremely small when com-
pared with the water saved, if
evaporation can be cut by
only 25 per cent. The cost of
saving 1,000 gallons ranges
from 16d. where annual rain
evaporation is 2ft. to as low as
6d. where evaporation is 1 Oft.
C.5.1.R.0. Bulletin extract:
“The Mansfield process which
has been developed by the
C.5.1.R.0. provides pastoralist's
and farmers with a simple
method of cutting evaporation
losses by \or more the pro-
cess can at present be recom-
mended for use only on areas
of water up to two acres—on
dams of up to one acre in
area, one raft should be used.
Dams between one and two
acres in area need two raft's,
etc.”
The Alcet Anti-Evaporation
Raft, complete with nylon
mooring, is £35 F.O.R. capi-
tal cities.
A 3lb. pack of Wilmo Si-Ro-
Seal is supplied with each raft
for 15/8 per lb.
Note .• wh en used as directed,
Wilmo Si-Ro-Seal is completely
harmless to human, animal,
bird and marine life and does
not in any way reduce the
quality of the water.
Free literature available from
Branches listed below.
Supplies of the “Alcet” Raft and Wilmo Si-Ro-Seal are available from
all Wilcox Mofflin Interstate Branches and Head Office, Sydney.
MC
rv
WILCOX MOFFLIN LTD.
15 PHILLIP STREET SYDNEY
Branches at MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - BRISBANE . FREMANTLE
University to work on the
problem of “the stability of
self-spillway rock fill dams.”
The construction of adequate
water-storage in Australia is
obviously necessary to achieve
the full use and control of our
water-resources. There are, at
present, many methods of con-
structing dams.
Melbourne University is
developing a technique for
building dams by using rock
and earth in a special form of
construction, so that the excess
water, which is normally by-
passed through a spillway, can
flow over the dam. The founda-
tion has been impressed by this
work, and will encourage it, as
it considers that these methods
will result in the construction
of storages more cheaply and
yet with a high degree of
safety.
Waterproof Membranes: The
seepage of water through
pervious soil makes it im-
possible to build satisfactory
dams in some country. To
solve this problem, the founda-
tion will co-operate with Im-
perial Chemical Industries of
Australia and New Zealand in
an investigation on “ the use of
plastic films as a lining material
for dams, channels and levee
banks” This material may
prevent seepage and enable
construction of economical
dams, reduce losses from
irrigation-channels and prevent
the destruction of levee banks.
A sum of £lOOO has been
allotted towards staff and
materials for this project to the
N.S.W. University of Tech-
nology.
Farm Ponds: Large reser-
voirs and dams are usually
thought to be the main method
for storing water in Australia.
However, a large number of
small farm-ponds hold as
much water as one large reser-
voir,. and have the additional
advantage that the water is
stored on the farm where it is
wanted. Accordingly, on the
advice of the foundation’s
research-committee, the Com-
monwealth Bank has asked
that its donation of £lOOO be
used on an investigation into
“improved methods of design
and construction of small dams
under Australian conditions
This work will be done at the
N.S.W. University of Tech-
nology in conjunction with the
previous project. The board
expects that better, cheaper,
more efficient and safer
methods of small-dam construc-
tion will be laid down.
Statistics of water use and
control: The engineer or the
scientist is interested in the past
records of rainfall and river-
flows when he is working on
water problems. 'Modern
methods of handling these
figures &re highly specialised
complicated, and the
foundation has decided that this
complex, mathematical side of
Australian water problems
should be studied. Accordingly,
it has agreed to pay half the
cost of a Fellowship (£500) to
be set up in the School of
Mathematical Statistics in the
N.S.W. University of Tech-
nology.
The Rural Bank of New
South Wales will pay the other
half of the Fellowship. Such
questions as the amount of
water which can be obtained
from a river or the extent and
frequency of flooding may be
answered by this worker.
The above programme is a
practical one which is within
the powers of the research
Fellows. It should give benefits
to its members as well as to
Australia as a nation.
The results of research-work:
done by the foundation are
published in research bulletins
which are distributed to
members of the foundation.
The donors thus receive very
valuable documents, as well as
the satisfaction of helping in
more research.
It is hoped to release at least
three bulletins each year. It
is expected that many more
Australians will join their
Water Research Foundation
and make further funds avail-
able for this vital research-
work. Interested persons may
write to the undersigned, c jo
the School of Civil Engineering,


DINGO
DESTRUCTION
No. 14 “ONEIDA”
JUMP TRAP
7iin.
Jaws
QHUOj
2Mb
Outstanding efficiency as Dingo
catcher, well established in sheep
lands of Queensland for over forty
years.
Further particulars from
R. J. MURPHY
Box 555, G.P.0., Townsville, Q,
Sole agent for Australia.
TASMANIAN
■ MERINOS*
The Backbone of the Fine Wool Industry
A great majority of the high priced fine wool clips
of Australia owe their success to the infusion of
TASMANIAN SAXON MERINOS
The following studs will be selling Merino Rams at
the Melbourne Sheepbreeders’ Sale on the 29th/30th
July, 195 7.
“WINTON” “ROSENEATH” “RHODES”
“VALLEYFIELD” “KENILWORTH”
“PLEASANT BANKS”
Year after year, clips using rams from the above
studs have established records at wool sales.
The following Australian Seasonal Wool records have
been established by these clips using Tasmanian rams:
1957
SCOTT 503 £d.
40 bales over 200 d.
1956 1955 1954
SCOTT 369 d. SCOTT 420 d. ED (in box) 255 d.
10 bales over 200 d. 101 bales over IOOd. 55 bales over 150 d.
1953
VALLEYFIELD 367 d.
All fleece over IOOd.
TASMANIAN FINE MERINO BREEDERS'
ASSOCIATION
Phone:
Launceston B 1 121.
J. S. MILLEN, Secretary,
1-21 St. John Street,
LAUNCESTON, Tasmania.
N.S.W. University of Tech-
nology, Broadway, Sydney.
C. J. Wiesner ( Senior lecturer
in Hydrometeorology, N.S.W.
University of Technology, and
hon. secretary, Water Research
Foundation of Australia).
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(27/6/’57)
Queensland should get general rains during July, with
the heaviest falls and the likelihood of flooding in the
southern half of the State and light rain on the peninsula
and in the north-west and far-west.
General rains in N.S.W. during July, heaviest falls and
likelihood of flooding on the coast and in the northern areas
of the State. Rainfall should be patchy during August, with
fair rains in September.
Apart from good falls in the western division, east-
central and north-east areas, rainfall in Victoria should be
mainly below normal during July, with heavier falls during
August and September.
General rains likely in the agricultural areas of South
Australia during July, but these should be mainly below
normal; west coast and interior confined to light rains.
Some improvement is possible, as the Main cycle indicates
excellent rains throughout.
General rains are indicated in the agricultural areas
of Western Australia during July, with heaviest falls on the
coast between Perth and Bunbury. The De Grey should get
good rains, with light rain in the Gascoyne and goldfields
areas.
LENNOX WALKER.
Winter-feeding of
Sheep
“Big Billy”: Feeding sheep
m dry or droughty conditions
poses problems different from
those associated with the feed-
ing of cattle under similar con-
ditions.
Sheep are more fussy than
cattle. Where sheep’have access
to dry pickings, stubbles or
straw-stacks, they will get a
considerable amount of rough-
age and they can be given
supplements of grain or good
pasture-hay.
Where only scant green-pick-
ings are available, a roughage
such as good pasture-hay will
provide the best supplement.
Oaten-hay and -chaff are satis-
factory, while straw only will
give fair results. Pasture-hay
has an advantage oyer cereal-
hay in that it contains more
protein.
Sheep need be fed only twice
weekly, and once a week will
do if conditions are really bad.
If cattle are kept, they can be
turned into the paddocks the
evening before the sheep are
refed to clean-up the uneaten
food from the previous feeding.
It’s best to feed hay or oats
on clean, hard ground. Any
savings in feed by using racks
and troughs is usually offset by
their cost, the time taken to
move them, and the damage to
pastures in the vicinity.
A satisfactory supplementary-
ration' is 4oz. of oats or 6oz.
of hay, but where no grazing
is available, lib. of oats or l|lb.
of hay may be necessary for
average-size dry sheep. Ewes
may need more.
If wheat is to be fed in the
paddock, care is necessary.
During the first week, per
head for two days is enough,
increased to 2oz. if the sheep
are eating readily. Then feed-
ing may be done on alternate
days, and later twice a week.
No precautions are necessary
if troughs are used, plus 31b.
ground-limestone to each bag
of wheat.
Where the one-quarter ration
is being fed, one bag of oats
will supply 500 sheep for a
day. For a three-month period
this would cost about £lOO. If
6oz. of pasture-hay is fed,
about eight tons would be
needed. Good-quality oats at
about 7s. 6d. a bushel would be
equivalent to good hay at
±l2 10s. a ton.
Fodder Angles
“Penola”: High cost of
feeding-out hay and silage has
led to eager exploration of
various ways of storing the
fodder in small heaps in the
paddock, so that stock can
self-feed from them when
necessary. Some people are
enthusiastic about round bales.
This writer favors small hay-
cocks of five to 10 tons each.
These heaps shed water
remarkably well, and can be
fenced until needed. They
don’t take up the same amount
of ground as a similar tonnage
of bales, and don’t deteriorate
as much from the ground up.
And heaps are cheaper than
bales.
Because it must be kept air-
tight, silage poses a more diffi-
cult problem. Several farmers
are experimenting with portable
clamps which can be set-up
easily in the paddock where
the silage is being made, and
removed when the fodder is
fed-out.
So far, plastic-covers as air-
tight coverings for silage don't
seem to be the answer, although
they have shown promise.
It seems probable that more
and better clamps will be
developed as, with their
specialised knowledge of
materials and stresses, engineers
take more interest in the
problem.
It seems certain that the old,
underground silage-pit will be
used purely as a drought-
reserve in the future, overhead
silos of various types being
used for short-term silage. «
“Check”: Don’t buy stock-
lick indiscriminately. Although
the basis is salt, licks contain
various ingredients and in
some circumstances could do
more harm than good. First
get a soil-analysis of the
paddocks, and buy licks that
will make-up deficiencies.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
National Days at this time of the year
“tread upon each other’s heels, so fast
they follow,” but there is nothing woe-
ful about their celebration, even when, in
this British-settled community, we happily
join in gaieties commemorating the loss of
America! Canada led-off with recep-
tions, etc., early in the week, and on
Thursday those on the diplomatic invita-
tion-list divided their time between the
reception given by Consul-General
Donald Kennedy and that given by Dr.
Jose Imperial, Minister for the Philip-
pines, at his Randwick residence. This
was the first diplomatic party given at
this lovely house, which, by the way, was
formerly the home of trainer Jimmy
Munro, brother of Darby Munro.
So our new Governor is to be Lieut.-
General E. W. Woodward, who with his
wife are already well-known in Sydney’s
public- and social-life. They have one
son, Edward, who is a barrister, and a
daughter, Judith, who recently graduated
with honors in Arts from Sydney Uni-
versity. What makes this Letter sigh with
relief about the appointment is that both
Lieut.-General and Mrs. Woodward are
excellent speakers and have a nice sense
of humor —very important to reporters
who listen to so many speeches.
V V V
Central feature of the Red Cross “Miss
Teahouse of the August Moon” Ball,
held at the Trocadero during the week,
was the announcement of the winner of
the “Miss Teahouse” Quest, by which
over £9OOO has been raised for Red Cross.
The winner, pretty Valerie Mayhew, who
was “Miss Shell,’ 7 was crowned by the
guest-of-honor, Sir Kenneth Street, and
will receive as a prize a trip to Japan.
Runner-up was Neidra Lea Smith, repre-
senting the V.A.s, whose party of 75,
hostessed by Mrs. Persia Porter, was one
of the largest at the ball. Mrs. Marcel
Dekyvere welcomed the official party, for
which the table had been decorated by
Mrs. Morisaburo Seki, wife of the
Japanese Consul-General. Miss Del Cart-
wright awarded the prize for the best-
decorated table to Shell’s elaborate
lantern-lit arrangement, and Mrs. Joanne
Sinclair was compere (or commere if you
speak French). Five-hundred attended
this very pretty ball, which made a
feature of its Japanese decor and
Cinderella spot-dance, during which
cascades of apple-blossoms (paper ones)
were showered on the dancers from
above.
☆ ☆ ☆
Something to look for in the near
future —Muriel Elliott’s “one-man” show
at the Grosvenor Galleries on Wednesday,
July 17. Sir Richard Boyer will open it
at noon, and it is safe to say that all who
love flower-paintings will go if they can.
Margaret Turpie will be one of the
nine girls to make their debut at the
Army Ball to be held at the Trocadero
on July 10. A novel feature of the ball
will be that the debs, are to be led by
five-year-old Adrian Churchill dressed as
a little corporal (not Napoleon, however )
in an exact replica of Army walking-out
dress. His partner will be Vicki Wright,
also five years of age, who will be dressed
as a deb. and will be the first to make her
bow to Lieut.-General E. W. Woodward
and Mrs. Woodward, The matron-of-
honor will be Mrs. J. S. Andersen, wife of
Brigadier Andersen. Photo by Norton
Trevaire.
The Camellia Show at David Jones’
Gallery was very pretty, notable not only
for the varieties shown and the flower-
arrangements but also for the garden-
arrangements. There is sure to be an
increase in the suburbs of little flagged
gardens decorated by camellia-trees in
tubs and cupids beside rock-pools. Mrs.
Gregory Blaxland and Mrs. Gordon
Russell were responsible for much of the
organising of this delightful show, which
was in aid of the Bush Book Club.
☆ ☆ ☆
Welcomed home: Australian singers
Joan Hammond, Ronald Dowd, Elsie
Morrison and ballerina Elaine Fifield, all
returning to appear here after success
abroad. Elaine Fifield’s husband, John
Lanchbury, who is conductor with the
Royal Ballet, could not come with her
for her six months’ tour of Australia, but
three-year-old daughter Margaret sees
Sydney for the first time, and with her
ballerina-mother visits her grandparents
Mr. and Mrs. L. Fifield, of Concord,
before flying this week to Melbourne.
* ☆ ☆
Also arrived during the week, the new
French Consul-General, M. Marcel
Bleuzet, and his wife, who will live at
Rose Bay. For the past 30 years they
have been living in the Middle East—
Persia, Turkey, Palestine, Libya and
Morocco. Their daughter Michelle, at
present holidaying in Italy, will join them
in Sydney in three months’ time.
it ir <r
Budgets are being strained at present,
for most of the shops are “throwing out”
beautiful winter-goods, while a few others
are showing the new spring stuff. All very
tempting. It appears, by the way, thaf
we will be trying to look like My Faire
Ladye next season with floating garments,
chiffon and pointy shoes.
☆ ☆ ☆
Best wishes from Sydney to Helen
McDougall, writer of The Bulletin’s
Melbourne “Woman’s Letter,” who has
announced her engagement to Mr. Ernest
Haisman, formerly of Shepparton (Vic.).
They will be married at St. Peter’s,
Eastern Hill, early in October. Helen will
continue to send her weekly letter to The
Bulletin.
“Tachism,” the new trend in contem-
porary-painting, gets its effect (accord-
ing to Mr. H. F. Weaver Hawkins, who
returned to Sydney last week with Mrs.
Hawkins after 11 months abroad) by
throwing the paint on and smearing it,
running more in, exploring new ideas.
“The finished picture has to convey some
human feelings,” said Mr. Hawkins, “and
the viewer has to sense what the artist is
expressing.”
Much the same technique has been used
for years by some cooks, and the eater’s
attempts to sense what the cook is
expressing often lead to trouble. “What
delicious stew this is, darling! Oh, I’m
sorry, I mean hash—well, hot-pot —no?—
well, how about celery-steak?—casserole,
then? —oh, don’t throw it out, darling,
I’ll get it in a minute, Irish st ——, no, of
course not —well, I give up —what is it?
Oh, Hungarian goulash! I can see I’ll
have to take lessons in contemporary
cooking.”
CANBERRA
To celebrate Canada’s National Day
the High Commissioner, Mr. T. W. Mac-
Dermot, gave a late-afternoon reception
at the Hotel Canberra. The flag of
Canada, surrounded by arrangements of
red gladioli, decorated the reception-
room. Guests were welcomed by the
host and First Secretary, Mr. D. M.
Cornett, and Mrs. Cornett ; she wore a
smart suit in pearl-grey velvet offset with
white-suede gloves. Guests included the
Acting Prime Minister, Sir Arthur
Fadden.
The American Ambassador and Mrs.


Sebald were among the many diplomats
present, also the-High Commissioner for
U.K. and Lady Carrington ; the Minister
for China and Madame Chen (she wear-
ing national dress in bronze brocade);
the N.Z. High Commissioner and
Mrs. Alderton; the Charge d’Affaires
of the South African High Commission
and Mrs. Olivier, and Shri and Shrimati
Singh, of the Indian High Commission.
The host was among those who went
on to the recital by pianist Claudio
Arrau at the Albert Hall. Many lovely
furs were worn by ladies in the audience
—protection against Canberra’s coldest
July in years. The full house was
enthralled by Arrau’s playing of Mozart,
Beethoven, Brahms and Chopin.
☆ ☆ ☆
The American Ambassador and Mrs.
Sebald gave an afternoon reception to
celebrate Independence Day. So that the
many Americans engaged in the Snowy
Mountains project and their wives and
children could join in the celebration, the
reception was held on Sunday. The host
and hostess welcomed the guests to the
graceful Embassy residence, and among
those noted were visiting American Ful-
bright scholar Mr. D. Adler and his wife ;
she is doing research-work here with
Professor Albert at the John Curtin
School of Medical Research. Also
present were First Secretary Mr. E.
Hoey and his wife (she wore attractive
jewellery with her powder-blue wool
frock) ; attache Mr. Merrill Blevins and
Mrs. Blevins, and Mr. and Mrs. H. F.
Propps, with Mrs. Propps, snr. Special
entertainment in the form of party-fare
and a screening of American cartoons
kept the small-fry happily occupied.
It was the first Independence Day
celebrated in Australia by the new
Ambassador and his charming wife.
MELBOURNE
Social life last week centred round
Fourth of July celebrations by members
of the American community and their
Australian friends. The luncheon in the
Royale Ballroom organised by the Aus-
tralian-Ameriean Association was booked
out ; U.K. High Commissioner Lord
Carrington, who, accompanied by Lady
Carrington, came from Canberra for the
occasion, was a witty guest-speaker.
Under a mink coat Lady Carrington
wore a black wool suit, and her tiny hat
in candy-pink was finished with a match-
ing rose. The official guests, received by
the association’s Federal president, Sir
John Latham, and Lady Latham, were
the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr.
Sir Frank and Lady Selleck), Sir Wilfrid
and Lady Kent Hughes, U.S. Consul-
General Gerald Warner and Mrs. Warner,
Mrs. R. G. Casey, Cr. and Mrs. Maurice
Nathan (she wore a wool coat and cloche
in haze-blue tonings), and Minister for
Housing Mr. Petty.
Among those at this luncheon were Sir
Douglas and Lady Copland, Mrs. John
Mack, Mrs. Lytton Stephens, Mrs. Karl
Kumm, Colonel and Mrs. Michael
Saunders, Mr. and Mrs. John Shaw (she
just back from a brief holiday in Hong
Kong, Japan and Singapore), Mrs. S. A.
Aarons, Mrs. A. E. Hotchkiss, Lady Holy-
man and her daughter Ailsa, Mrs.
Elizabeth Fitzgerald, Mrs. T. Wallace
Mitchell, Mrs. Lionel Newton and Mrs.
Frank Watts.
☆ ☆ ☆
Novel invitations were sent out for the
parties which U.S. Consul-General
Gerald Warner and Mrs. Warner gave
for the Independence Day party at their
South Yarra home. It was in verse-form
and at one side was the picture of an
“eggnog-tree,” which “tree” was also used
to decorate the foyer.
The hostess chose a frock of black
silk-taffeta made with a fitted bodice and
full skirt of unpressed pleats. Her
daughters Anne and Deborah assisted her
in hostessing, and also receiving the
guests were U.S. Consul W. Bushwaller
and his wife (she wearing a black velvet
bodice allied to a steel-grey satin skirt)
and U.S. Vice-Consul Carleton Brower
and Mrs. Brower (her choice a fitted suit
of peacock-blue satin).
Guests included Lieut.-Governor Sir
Edmund Herring, the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress, Sir Charles and Lady
Lowe, Air-Vice-Marshal and Mrs.
Douglas Candy, Air-Vice-Marshal Sir
John and Lady McCauley, Sir Samuel
and Lady Burston, Mrs. W. J. F.
McDonald, Mrs. Arthur Rylah, Mr. Cal-
well, M.H.R., Lieut.-General and Mrs.
E. K. Smart, Town Clerk Frank Rogan
and his wife, and Mrs. F. Scherger.
Americans present included the Earl
Daums and Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Callahan.
Anne, daughter of Air-Marshal Sir
John McCauley and Lady McCauley, has
returned from two years overseas and
joined the firm of Pierre Mann, public-
relations consultants. Educated in Mel-
bourne, Sydney and London, Anne com-
menced her working-career as secretary
to the British Commonwealth Financial
Adviser, Japan. There followed a job
with Qantas’ public-relations; and while
in London she was on the trade-publicity
staff at Australia House. A bright per-
sonality.
V # V
Climax to the Independence Day
celebrations was the brilliant ball
organised by the American Women’s
Auxiliary to the Royal Children’s
Hospital. Months of preparation had
gone into the decorations at St. Kilda
Palais. Mrs. Richard Chaney had moulded
thousands of the little characters made
famous by Walt Disney, and these were
grouped on the tables. At the back of
the enclosure was Snow White’s castle.
Official guests were U.S. Ambassador
William J. Sebald and Mrs. Sebald, Mr.
and Mrs. Mark Clements (she is presi-
dent of the auxiliary), U.S. Consul-
General Gerald Warner and Mrs. Warner,
and Mr. and Mrs. Heathcote Wright (she
was organiser of the ball). The Lieut.-
Governor, Sir Edmund Herring, attended
with his daughter Margaret.
A Princess-line gown, with the bodice
emphasised with white satin sash-ends,
was worn by Mrs. Sebald. Bronze and
pearl embroidery was encrusted on the
strapless bodice of Mrs. Clements’s gown
of turquoise satin, which also featured a
very full skirt. Of sea-blue satin-brocade
was the gown worn by Mrs. Wright. Mrs.
G. I. Stevenson (acting president of
Royal Children’s Hospital) chose a slim
sheath-gown of gold brocade and white
guipure-lace.
Also in the official party were the
Lord and Lady Mayoress (Sir Frank and
Lady Selleck), Sir Arthur and Lady
Warner, Sir John and Lady Latham, Mr.
and Mrs. C. W. McKay, U.S. Army
Attache Colonel Walker Milner and
Mrs. Milner, and U.S. Naval Attachd
Captain J. A. Gage.
V V V
Grand National Day at Flemington
was just the day for furs and tweed coats.
Most popular color was taupe, and high
hats predominated. Mrs. L. R. Buxton
wore a striking coat of moleskins dyed
in bronze-wing tonings, with the skins
cleverly cut to give a shaded effect. Mrs.
Sue Cain’s short cream beaver-coat was
also outstanding. Mrs. Lawrence Simp-
son, of Oatlands (N.S.W.), wore brown
fur-trimmed boots with her full-length
mink coat. Barbara Murray Smith had
the beaver collar of her caramel-colored
coat drawn up over her head in place of
a hat. Mrs. Desmond Hollywood w'ore
a hip-length jacket of cream lambswool
over her beige tweed frock ; her high-
crowned matching hat was studded with
gold beads.
Snug in mink coats were a trio
together; Lady Snow, Mrs. Richard
Spraggett and Mrs. Norman Sheppard.
Smart black wool suits were worn by
Mrs. Ronald Nott and Mrs. W. Tresise.
Lady Manifold, wife of the V.R.C. chair-
man, wore a fur toque to match her
threequarter-length coat of dyed ermine.
Also wearing a coat of dyed ermine was
Mrs. John Newton, her attractive turban
being in brown and beige.


The man from tooktown
By EVE LANGLEY
WHEN I woke up this
morning in Cairns
after a long hot night
of waving that flowery
green and purple fan I bought
along the road in Bungalow
from Lee Moon's just above
Alligator Creek, and of stirring
the small flat black Far North
mosquitoes up, and of staring
through the fascinating white
many-dimensional folds of the
damp-flowing netting that
made about forty rooms of the
one room when you looked
through it, I heard voices out
on the latticed-and-screened
veranda.
“He went away yesterday
morning,” said Mrs. Grey of
Ravenswood. “Left on the
Malanda at five-o'clock. Oh,
he's gorn. - '
And the voice of Mrs. Lynch,
the drover’s wife from Julia
Creek up Darwin way, answer-
ing in unknown bush-syllables.
“The man from Cooktown,
you mean?” continued Mrs.
Grey. “Oh, he went back to
Cooktown.”
That was all very italicised.
I could see his boat trudging
slowly through the Coral Seas,
jade-green . . .
Mrs. Lynch became even
more distinct, and Mrs. Grey
felt irritated.
“He came from Cooktown,”
she said loudly and harshly,
“and he went back to Cook-
town! He’s got an estate there.”
He had been working out on
Rudyard Lindley's trochus-
luggers with the Thursday
Island boys at Smith’s Creek,
just out of Cairns, just past
the brewery on Alligator Creek.
Then there was a long silence
broken only by her voice
repeating reminiscently, “The
man from Cooktown.”
By now I was well awake,
staring at the row of Queens-
land wideawake hats I’d bought
and hung on the wall. They
help after a long night under
the netting. I felt a great sense
of loss. A blank astonishment
and fear at the thought of the
going of the man from Cook-
town. He had come to us. He
had gone from us.
He had taken the veranda-
room and that had stopped me
from strolling along the very
end of it to watch the flying-
foxes as they came slowly and
impressively into Cairns by
night to eat the mangoes off
the trees. I had called them
‘‘my little dogs” and stared
upward at them in a loving
manner which seemed to me
to strike home. Often I
thought they had waved their
black, loose wings in a kindly,
chumly manner, with an inner
meaning as though we lot had
shared the earth with the
pterodactyls when the world
was less old than now.
But when the man from
Cooktown stepped out from
between the white folds of his
mosquito-netting, I thought the
loss of the view was worth it.
For the man from Cooktown
was an Englishman. The
compleat Englishman. He had
just stepped, apparently, from
out some staff headquarters
sacred to the Crimean war, in
the dark-blue and torn-sleeved
shirt, and with the dark-blue
eyes, and a dark-blue mist of
swimming-time and Crimean
war, suave-polished yet faintly
untidy, with an old-fashioned
tent back of him, such as
Crimean generals loved to
lounge in and gnaw their
whiskers.
r_ pHE man from Cooktown
sported a black moustache,
jet black ... He was a brown-
faced individual, muscular and
brown to a mahogany-color
above the white shorts. His
voice was of London, and
recent.
So I handed him a coconut I
had bought, fallen from the
palm over at Brown’s Bay, and
he got hold of a chisel and
chiselled the rind off it as xvell
as he could. It was a failure
up top among high balconies,
lattices and nervous men from
the Gulf Country, so we took
the shining, polished inanimate
down under the mango-tree,
and with our backs to the
electric fern which shone blue
as an antediluvian sea, we set
the coconut on a stone and
gashed a grin across its green
brown face with the chisel.
As our mutual labors in-
creased with the unyielding
nut, we spoke with reverence
and sympathy of those im-
immortal Three Men in
a Boat. We saw their
toil with that tin of pine-
apple as something close to our
own agony. At last, under the
mango-tree, with a final shift
to a square stone under the
laden pawpaw-tree, we tore
both the smile and the cheek off
the coconut, and borrowed a
can-opener with a corkscrew ;
and after telling me about the
author of R. M. Ballantyne’s
awful faux pas regarding
coconuts . . .
“Yes, he had them in his
book described just as hairy as
you buy them in the shop, and
had to write a whopping
apology to all his readers,”
said the man from Cooktown
cheerfully, as he opened the
holes of the coconut and
drained it into my tin billy
bought in Cairns and.intended
as an accompaniment to the
family-album ; and I drank of
the juice, which the man from
Cooktown said they made soap
from. It appeared to me that
the coconut must spend its
life manufacturing the nearest
thing to soap as a lather to get
rid of all the hair on its face.
When I had emptied the
coconut, the man from Cook-
town ran lightly upstairs with
it and stood at the door of
his blue, Crimean room, with
a good and vivid view of the
battlefield in the rear, and,
raising the coconut high above
his head, he flung it hard down
on the concrete floor below. It
smashed tragically, burst into
a dozen fragments with a
hollow, native sound and lay
white within before us, pure
oily-wet white.
We picked up the pieces and
skinned them and grated them
over a tropical salad of pine-
apple, pawpaw and mango and
cream, and ate them while the
monsoon rain, encouraged by
sorrow on earth of any kind,
began to fall and fall.
When the monsoon was at its
afternoon height, and pouring
down luxuriantly in an
abundant way over the roofs
and lawns of Cairns, and the
tree-frogs and black frogs in
the grass were croaking and
barking at it as though it were
a stranger knocking at the
doors of a house, we all made
tea, and something rich and
kind and luxuriant in us
brought us all to the English-
man's door with billies and
teapots. He came to the door,
and brandishing a large enamel
mug said he “wouldn’t mind a
cup of tea,” in a voice so like
London, so homely and English
that we poured tea into every-
thing he had in the room.
And being firmly convinced
that the British eat little else
but bread-and-jam and ginger-
biscuits, and that since
antiquity, I gave him bread-
and-jam and ginger - biscuits
with a small red-haired boy on
the wrapper. And all through
the heavy, ceaseless monsoon
weather the mug of tea we
gave to the Englishman was
our genius. Down poured the
rain into a phantom English
mug filled with phantom
Ceylonese tea and the world
went well and was at peace
with all men.
"117 HEN the monsoon had
’ ’ gone for a day or two,
I said Port Douglas was a place
I should like to see. The man
from Cooktown said it was
worth a visit, and by some
means or other managed to get
hold of a horse-and-trap, and
we set out from Cairns in the
sulky and staggered, with
waving whip, along the road
and over the Barron River and
through miles of green sugar-
cane and musky, close-smelling
molasses-grass, with every sort
of flower the Far North can
provide in the way of pink
crepe-myrtles and African
tulips and the usual flame- and
frangipani- and jacaranda- and
golden cascara-flowers.
Wild pawpaw, banana and
pineapple grew with mangoes
by the road ; and the man from
Cooktown pointed out that
you could eat the cascara-seeds
too, if you wished. The
country after that grew
sparse and empty of all
save a few gumtrees. Suddenly,
turning a corner, we entered
into a dream of Cornwall, with
the Coral Sea breaking jade-
blue below us, and got
glimpes of places that were, the
Englishman said, just like
Windsor Great Park.
It was lovely country. Then


it changed, and shadowy,
mysterious casuarinas leant
from the yellow, sandy shore
with their air of old wistful
secrecy, and small, ghostly,
pale crabs flew and slid like
ghosts from the sand into sea.
Those dark, thin, frail, wistful
casuarinas looked glorious
against the Coral Sea. It
wallowed in yellowly then
from the east for miles. A
few old boxes lying on the
empty shore made us think
of gunrunning in the early
days, and we spoke of the trade
with reverence, and every box
we saw contained Hotchkisses
and Martinis . . . Dream-
luggers full of the gun-boxes
flew past us over that romantic
sea.
But rounding a turn of the
road we came right on two
big Queenslanders heavily
armed with huge guns, and our
delight in the gunrunning trade
evaporated at once. We asked
them where they were heading
for with such armaments.
“Oh, just out crocodile-
shooting,” they said casually.
“See yer later, alligator.”
On we went through country
just like the Riviera. It shone
and sparkled with grey stone.
After driving under a lot of
red, flamboyant, frangipani
and jacaranda, with our heads
bowed the while and blossoms
falling on our hats, until they
were as well trimmed as a
milliner could do them, we
came to a very ordinary road,
and, rounding a corner or two,
were in Port Douglas, with one
big green hill at the back.
The road was red, the town
practically deserted. In the old
days they used to run the sugar
from Mossman down to Port
Douglas by the sugarcane tram,
but if they do it now, it still
doesn’t help. Port Douglas was
once a great mining-town ;
thousands of people walked
about its streets. Were they
the same thousands that walked
about in every ghost-town? we
wondered. In my mind, they ali
look the same. By now I even
know the brand on the bow-
yangs.
The man from Cooktown
and I tied the horse up and
went along to have a look at
Tully’s hotel. I thought it was
quite deserted. But an old
Port Douglaser was sitting
drinking in the bar-ro®m under
a shadow of loneliness as dark
as the night, and hearing me
say that the cream-colored
wall was as jewel-like as an old
canvas by Rembrandt, asked
me if I was “here in the early
days.”
I had to nod across instead of
down, so he returned to his
beer, sadly. But he had a most
kindly outlook even on that
and helped us snap him stand-
ing at the window of Tully’s
pub with a foaming handle.
“Ah, it was a great place
this, in the old days,” he said.
Every deserted town is full
of such kindly ministers. Faith-
ful to the past.
The man from Cooktown
and I went down to the sea to
stare at the yellow wash coming
in over grey stones, pale man-
groves and white silken gums
with long, thin, green leaves.
Then we went back along the
red-purple road to where the
old police-station of Port
Douglas stood among yellow
alamandas and sensitive-plant,
wild passionfruit and wild
chilis, bright-red and hot.
Caress one with your languid
hand and then without think-
ing apply the same hand to
your nose, and you will feel
bright red and hot, for a long
while after.
-RESPECTFULLY, the man
from Cooktown and I went
up the old white steps and
came into the little Records
Office together.
* An old leather musket-scab-
bard hung ©n the wall, with a
coil of barbed-wire on another,
and a quite modern camera-case
lying about in an odd way,
weather- and storm-beaten. But
behind the door on a high shelf
lay the old records, in long
blue books, worm-eaten. We
took them down and set them
on the bench under the musket-
scabbard and the barbed-wire
coil hanging on a nail, and set
to work to read them.
They were long, blue books,
delicately inscribed in long-
hand copperplate, in good black
ink ; and their entries would
have made a great book. This
was the Daily Journal of the
Herberton North Mounted
Police, Cook Sub-District, 1884,
and began with
Saturday, December 12th :
Troopers in camp, 6 ; Gins in
camp, 5; Troophorses in camp,
20. Sub-Inspector and troopers
left on patrol with 8 troop-
horses and private horse,
Constable and Trooper
Tiger, general camp-duty,
Trooper Sandy, horse-duty,
gins, pulling grass.
We followed them through
the loss of the Georgetown
mails, and the finding of same
by troopers on patrol, noted
that the mail arrived every
Monday at Port Douglas, and
got to April, “Aprile with her
golden tears and after, April
with her golden laughter”;
and it was here that we found
Sub-Inspector Nichols absent
on patrol, Constable in camp,
gins hunting and Trooper
Carlo, horse-duty . . . “horses
all mustered except Grey-
beard.”
Trooper Carlo fascinated the
man from Cooktown. He
followed his career, his days,
with thickly increasing interest:
“Trooper Carlo on patrol,
Trooper Carlo out hunting with
gins, Trooper Carlo lining
saddles, Trooper Carlo muster-
ing horses with Trooper Tiger.”
Then the brief note came
through to the effect that
“Constable Fitzsimmons and
three troopers returned to
camp, found the lost mails ;
Trooper Sambo returned to
camp, found troophorse,
"It looks as if the drought's broken, Joe."
Johnny.” The man from Cook-
town was gleeful, wondering
what Trooper Carlo had
found . . .
/'VNE day, the patrol rode
into camp announcing that
it had found a dead man in a
gully not far off. The man
from Cooktown surmised that
Trooper Carlo’s genius had led
them to it, had brought them to
the scene. He eulogised
Trooper Carlo from then on
and no man could speak of
him in a small way. He
decided to buy a dog and call
it Carlo.
“Ah, the old-time native
troopers had it,” said he.
“Trooper Tiger, Trooper
Sambo, Trooper Carlo —what
names, eh?”
Day followed day in the
Daily Journal of the Herberton
Mounted Police with the dead
man lying in the near-by gully,
until one amazing day came
the very brief and entirely
unamazed note saying, after the
usual neat list in the red:
Troopers in camp, 3 ; gins in
camp, 6; troophorses in camp,
21; Const. Fitzsimmons and
Trooper Carlo rode into
Townsville, where Trooper
Carlo on arrival was arrested
on suspicion of murder.
The man from Cooktown
turned and looked me up and
down.
“Well,” he said, “I feel
floored, after that.”
It was quite in the grand
manner of Destiny,
We got into the trap and
turned the sulky, heading for
home, for Cairns, while the
man from Cooktown mourned
the passing glory of Trooper
Carlo.
“I trusted that fellow,” ho
said. “I liked his name.”
‘‘l didn't, from the first,” I
said. “It reminded me of a
large, brown dog, a dog of the
’eighties, and a little girl with
golden hair and a pink frock.”
“But what would that have
to do with the dead man in tho
gully?” said the man from
Cooktown.
I could see he was upset by it
all. He whipped-up the mare
and we set out for Cairns in
relative silence. And when I
awoke this morning he was
gone, back to Cooktown.
“He came from Cooktown,
you see,” said Mrs. Grey for
the sixth time this morning,
“and he went back to Cook-
town,”


painted “The Man from Snowy
River” and his background.
We have, then, this curious paradox
of a poem that never was a picture of
a larrikin being accepted and cherished
as such for 40 years, selling 165,000
copies (no less!) and likely enough to
sell the 10,000 more which Angus and
Robertson have printed for this edition.
And 175,000 readers can’t be wrong.
Ten-thousand can be, when a book is
first printed; but not 175,000 over the
years. Some kind of basic sanity in
public taste makes decisions of this
magnitude.
What are the reasons for its long-
continued popularity?
Well, to begin with, it is very well
written. The stanza-form is pleasantly
varied from section to section; the
narrative moves in _ clear, steady
progress; the rhymes (allowing for a
few lazy “logs” and “fogs” and
“dogs”) is at once correct and quite
fresh enough for Dennis’s purposes;
the verse as a whole is tight, compact,
with very little padding, flowing with
an easy vigor. Dennis kept his eye on
the ball throughout. Moreover,
though the charming spring-noises of
the opening become repetitive when
prolonged as far as the seventh section
—surely, even in Melbourne, the
weather sometimes changes —there is
a nice, soft music running through the
whole thing: no mean achievement
when, as in the following stanza, it is
conveyed through the uncouth medium
of reasonably authentic larrikin-
speech:—
“I wish’t yeh meant it,” I can ’ear
’er yet,
My bit o’ fluff! The moon was
shinin’ bright,
Turnin’ the waves all yeller where
it set —
A bonzer night!
The sparklin’ sea all sorter gold an’
green ;
An’ on the pier the band —O ’Ell!
. . . Doreen!
The verse is, too, often vividly, even
lyrically, pictorial. If pictures of the
larrikin background are, as I have said,
astonishingly rare, and we would have
to go to Furnley Maurice’s “Melbourne
Odes” really to find out what the
Victoria Markets looked like, we do
get Bill on the beach; and we do get
the Fitzroy Gardens: —
The little birds is chirpin’ in the
nest,
The parks and gardings is a bosker
sight,
Where smilin’ tarts walks up and
down, all dressed
In clobber white.
An’, as their snowy forms goes
steppin’ by,
It seems I’m seekin’ somethin’ on
the sly.
And again—quite a significant
achievement this, in the foundation of
a national literature —there are the
times when Dennis makes an effective
and authentic use of Australian idiorii
comparable (at the proper distance in
both cases) with the idiomatic speech
of Burns and “Banjo” Paterson. If I
find such distortions as “forchinit”
merely painful and, for that matter, can
see no real justification for “orl” and
“becors” these are merely the
ordinary pronunciations distorted to
look like larrikinese —there is no doubt
about the distinctively Australian
flavor of such a stanza as:—
’Twus orl becors uv Ginger Mick —
the cow!
(I wish’t I ’ad ’im ’ere to deal wiv
now!
I’d pass ’im one, I would! ’E ain’t
no man!)
I meets ’im Choosdee ev’nin’ up the
town.
“Wot O,” ’e chips me. “Kin yeh
keep one down?”
I sez I can.
We ’as a couple; then meets three
er four
Flash coves I useter know, an’ ’as
some more.
How well, incidentally, here and
throughout the poem, Dennis uses that
truncated line in the midst or at the
end of the stanza for humorous
emphasis! —“I sez I can.” Somehow
there’s a wealth of wicked Aus-
tralianism packed into those four
simple words. Again at a distance,
it reminds me of the way Bums used
the short lines in his “epistles.”
Dennis is, of course, often credited
with being a creator of Australian
idiom. I am a bit doubtful of that.
How many slang terms or phrases did
he invent? How many idioms of the
period have survived only because he
picked them up and put them in the
poem? How many were not, when he
took them over, already firmly estab-
lished in popular usage? This for the
experts to determine; but I suppose at
least a few of the idioms still in popular
use must be credited to Dennis’s
authorship or sponsorship; I dips me
lid at any rate to “I dips me lid”; and
I dare say it was he who first made
popular, and amusing, the appalling
outcry of “Put in the boot.”
I think I have seen him credited, too,
like Shakspeare and like Burns (once
more at the proper distance, I trust)
with being one of those mind-forming,
nation-forming writers who can put
into compact and memorable speech
the resounding commonplaces upon
which mortal existence is based:
sayings like “Ripeness is all” or “A
man’s a man for a’ that.” At any rate,
some politician claimed for the first
edition that Dennis was “the Burns
of Australia,” and I myself, from
former readings of the poem, always
had a notion that that was the sort of
thing you could find in it. I don’t find
now, on re-examination, that there are
many such phrases. “The commin end
of most of us is—Tart” is too common-
place a commonplace, and vulgar.
“Livin’ and lovin’—so life mooches
on” is cloying. I prefer, in its context,
the Bloke’s heartfelt ejaculation,
“Gorstrooth! Wot is the use o’ me, I
arst?”; but I doubt if it could be said
to live upon the tongue of mankind
along with “To be or not to be” or
“The best laid schemes o’ mice and
men.”
One of the poem’s strongest claims
both to popularity and enduring
interest remains, nevertheless, its
touches of basic humanity: if not so
much in specific phrases, in the entire
texture of the story, its pattern of love,
jealousy, marriage and the birth of the
child; also in the theme of incorrigible
masculinity. If it turns didactic and
sentimental at the end, in Bill’s wholly
undocumented conversion to the
Golden Rule, it is still essentially the
fundamental human story. Bill, if
hardly a larrikin, is a kind of Every-
man; and it is not surprising that
Everyman should be interested in his
doings.
And if this human story, as Dennis
has handled it, tastes sometimes too
sugary, there remains at all times the
escape and reinforcement of his
humor: for even if you find the Bloke
very slight as a picture of a larrikin,
and if you find him a little unrealistic
in his courtship of Doreen and more
than a little embarrassing when he is
goo-gooing over his son, nobody can
deny that Dennis is funny.
There is that most ingenious piece of
light-verse in “The Stoush o’ Day,” a
prolonged Homeric metaphor where a
single joking image is expanded to 88
lines. There is the skit on “Romeo and
Juliet” —where the famous “ ‘Peanuts
or lollies!’ sez a boy upstairs” strikes
me as a little obvious, and where
Dennis has scored a faintly reprehens-
ible success for the anti-cultural
tendency of his poem . . . but it remains
amusing. There is the squashing of
the Stror-’at Coot; the cruel but
irresistible caricature of “Mar”; and
there is the wholly diverting “Pilot
Cove.” And, though these are the
supreme moments, humor infuses,
strengthens and redeems the whole
body of the poem.
Because of its failure to depict the
larrikin background and to make the
Bloke a convincing and consistent
piece of characterisation, “The Senti-
mental Bloke” has not the solidity of
Paterson’s ballads, the type of Aus-
tralian writing with which it may most
suitably be compared. As a popular
narrative it does not seem to me as
amusing as John Farrell’s neglected
“My Sundowner.” It would be absurd


A book to keep A book to give
THE TURN OF THE TIDE
Arthur Bryant
The inside story of how the war was run and won based on the war diaries of
Field-Marshal Alanbrooke. It has been described by a Sydney reviewer as “the
finest history of the Second World War that has yet been written
From all
Booksellers
COLLINS —PUBLISHERS
Buy your
copy now
SHUTE
ON THE BEACH
A sensational novel foreshadowing a nuclear war
that will wipe mankind off the face of the earth.
At all booksellers - - - 15/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
SOUTH WITH MAWSON
By CHARLES F. LASERON
As this month celebrates the beginning of the International Geophysical Year, it is
appropriate that South With Mawson, the story of Australia’s own Antarctic Expedition
in 1911-1913, should be made available in a new edition.
When Sir Douglas Mawson led a band of
young Australian scientists to the Antarctic
the author was one of the zoologists who
accompanied him. In this book he describes
how 18 men, under the most appalling
weather conditions ever experienced by any
expedition, lived in harmony in a
tiny hut, and dug out the
scientific secrets of this strange and hostile
land.
As a final and tragic culmination to their
work, this book describes Mawsou’s terrible
journey alone across the snow to his base.
This is one of the greatest epics of human
courage and endurance ever
told.
21 /- (Post 7d.)
AVAILABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS and
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereaarh Street, Sydney.
to compare it, as a picture of manners
or a deep evocation of humanity, with
such a piece as Burns’s “The Cotter’s
Saturday Night,” let alone the
Rabelaisian “Jolly Beggars.”
Its total effect is of slightness. But
also of charm, ingenuity and humor.
And, simply because it tells a clear
story in capable verse, dealing with
the basic human emotions, it remains
a challenge to “serious” Australian
poetry; which, despite a few notable
exceptions in recent years, has not yet
sufficiently recognised that from this
aspect at least, at however infinite a
distance, Dennis practised the art of
Chaucer and of Byron. Only
the writer who deals in narrative poetry
can ever hope to attract that lament-
able. that wicked, that wonderful total
of 175,000 readers.
Douglas Stewart.
Reviewed Briefly
Recent Everymans include
Thackeray’s Vanity Fair, Lockhart’s
monumental The Life of Sir Walter
Scott and The Book Concerning Piers
Plowman very readably rendered into
modern English by Donald and
Rachel Attwater.
* * * *
On the Art of the Theatre: Edward
Gordon Craig (Heinemann). Reprint
of the book first published in 1911.
Craig, who sought for “marvels” in
the theatre as opposed to realism and
mechanical tricks, has been an import-
ant influence in Britain and on the
Continent for more than forty years.
He writes in an odd, bouncing, chatty,
impressionistic style—a bit of a marvel
itself —under the surface of which
theatre-goers as well as actors and
producers will always find much sound
sense.
* * * *
The Story of Life: H. E. L. Mellersh
(Hutchinson). Evolution, from the first
cell —and before it—to Us. It is a
little sad to learn that “the behavior
of baboons is not edifying” (something
must be done about baboons), but
even these poor-relations have their
virtues; and Mr. Mellersh sees many
more in man. A pleasant, informative
book, up to date in its scientific and
biological facts.
* * * *
The Frightened Giant: Cedric Bel-
frage (Seeker and Warburg). A British
subject who was editor of the New
York “Guardian,” Mr. Belfrage was
arrested in May, 1955, on a deportation-
order —for refusing to answer questions
to the Un-American Activities Com-
mittee—and was imprisoned for six
months without trial before being
released and deported. Here he tells
the story.
* * * *
Nicholas Ridley: Jasper Godwin
Ridley (Longmans). A life of Bishop
Ridley, who was burned alive as a
heretic, in company with Latimer, by
Queen Mary . . . “Be of good comfort,
Master Ridley, and play the man; we
shall this day by God’s grace light
such a candle in England as I trust
shall never be put out.” Mr. Ridley,
descended from the bishop’s favorite
sister, Elizabeth, writes in intricate,
scholarly detail of the period, but rises
to terrific 4rama in his picture of the
burning—when Ridley, unable to
burn and die because the fagots were
piled too heavily on the gorse, had to
wait until he could lean into the flames
and set off the bag of gunpowder tied
round his neck.
Three for the Road: John S.
Chaloner (Hutchinson). Claimed to
resemble “Three Men in a Boat”—
and, if such comparisons are sacri-
legious, funny enough. The mis-
adventures of three men, an English-
man, a Frenchman and an American,
crossing North America by car. With
punctures, Americans, etc.
* * * #
Alsace and Its Wine Gardens: S. F.
Hallgarten (Deutsch). This is a kind
of historical and geographical tour
through Alsace as well as an account
of its wines and foods. For instance,
there is the Maison Kammerzell in
Strasbourg, next to the cathedral in a
building dating from 1427, which is
the property of eight leading Alsatian
wine-growers; and there you can eat
Alsatian snails, Rhinepike or steak-
Rossini (topped with gooselivers) and
drink the famous Riesling. An admir-
able guide-book for anyone thinking of
drinking his way through Europe.


TOOT. CHEST
OH STORAGE LOCKER
Grand new galvanised made
from J-incli steel hinged lid.
Water - tight, air - tight and
rustproof. Size Sfiin. x 14in. >
sin. Standing on 16in. legs
This chest has many uses.
Worth £2O to make. Our price
£5 each.
PEED GINS BRAND NEW
Galvanised size 23 x li
Two compartments, hinged
from top. (Not as illustrated.)
The perfect feed bins.
Price £A each. Ideal for
bakers and pastrycook*.
Grand New
POL’ KINO
flexible
NOZZLES
Will lit a..y > „<»». drum, com-
plete with screw in strainer
and locking clip.
l‘li!CE 12 ti EACH
CKOWN Wheel ano
PINION ASSEMItLIEtf
Original ford, 6:30 ratio, coin-
c r
5 □
plete wit)'
hearings.
S'ngle
ratio, list
Price, £5O,
plus tax.
Our
Price,
£1.7/10/-
each.
Still in
original
wrapping.
SKID t'll .-UN*
brand
NEW
All sizes iu-
•rlmling Blitz
feizes up to
1050 x 18.
Price £B/10'
pair. In iots
of 12 or more.
£6/10/-
set
Set 5 Brand New Pure Bristle
PAINT BRUSHES (set in rub-
ber). Sizes 4in., 3in., 2in., liin.,
lin. 35/- set (post 3/6 extra;.
UNLIMITED STOCKS
r r" > **'s nX-ARMV
ooo<l condition. )lfhs type,
with stoojs attached. Ideal
“or layse families, shearers,
caterers, etc. Incomparable
value. Size 7ft. x Sit.
PRICE £l/10/-
6ft. x 3ft. Folding Table,
£3/t!»/«.
' AMil.li I RON
STRETCHER BEDS
U >(l> Inldinu lefi>. Perfeet|
: tion. Pr : ee 55/- each.
Ex-Army
Beds
3ft.
37/6
Ex-Anny 2ft. (tin. bfds in as
Nt**v ('mxlttion. PKICE. <>o -■
MATTRESSES
30/
I'iv-Army Mattress, 3ft
PRICE 30'/- EAt’ll■
1
m
&
CUTLERY
l ocks, Soup Spoons, Dessert
Spoons, Tea Spoons. 1/- ea.
In tots ol 1 doz. or more.
10/- doz.
KNIVES. JSraml new,' first-
, lass quality, all steel. Ideal
for caterers, cafeterias, etc.
Price 30/- per doz.
rm r
mm
■
TYRE LEVERS
riind new, Truck type.
Solid forged steel. Extra
strong. Price, 15/- pair
ZIFPKREJ)
LUMBER JACKETS
Wvim
! tv v a
m
rand new press-lmtton on
sleeves. Sizes up to 3'Jin.,
ho larger, Price ’25/- eaeli.
Post 3 6.
BRAND NEW
FLYING HELMETS
&
A
rttK
<•0
\
PI/
/
Kraml new kid leather
chamois lined Flying Cap
zippered ear-seetions, ideal
for Motor Cyclists, Trailer
Drivers, etc. Priee, 13/6 ea
Post 1/6 extra.
FORAGE CAPS
Dram] new. Ideal winter
flip for eyelists, etc. Price
> 6 each. Post 2/~ extra.
ufound Sheet Capes
r'x-Arnty, excellent eondi-
ion. Price 17/6 each. Post
- extra
Tip-Dray, Sulky anc
Spring - Cart Harnesi
Secondhand and excellen
condition. Priced up t<
£l6/10/- set.
Ex-Army
Tarpaulins
is
Size 24 x 18 ... . £27/10/
Size 18 x 12 ... £l5/-/
Size i 5 x 13 . . . . £l6/-/
Size 12 x 10 ... . £7/10/
Size 10 x 8. '. . . £6/-/
Size 8 x 6 . . . . £3/5/
ALL EYELETS REINFORCEI
Every Tarp repaired if neces
sary and in perfect condition
A FIRST CLASS BUY.
s'/o\/‘*6'
Steel boxes, binged lid, size
16 x 12 x 6. Price 20/- each.
In dozen lots or more
PRICE 12/6 EACH.
TOOL BOXES
S/ze
£
BLANKETS
Ex-Army, nearly brand new.
Perfect condition, single-bed
size. All wool. Price 35/- ea.
PILLOW CASES
Ex-Army, laundered. I.inen
Price 2/9 each. 30/- iloz.
EX-ARMY TOWELS
Size 40:n. x 2lin. Slightly
damaged. 2/9 ea. 30/- doz.
Brass Stirrup Pumps
Ex-Army. No hoses. In per-
fect condition. Price 19/6 ea.
TELEPHONE WIRE
WU,.
Telephone Wire (ISA type)
'.land new lightweight in
nut 1 mile coils. , Priee 50/-
ile 15/- } mile.
FILES
'A
Ik
STOCKS AND DIES
m
S.A. Stocks ami Dies. Con'-
>Jete set in wooden container
it rand new. Price £4/5/- set
SADDLES
BRAND NEW
mounted—
Stofk or
Poley.
Price
£22/10/-.
Mexican
saddles,
id new,
fully
rigged.
Price
£32.
idhand
saddles up to
£l7/10/-.
MO KSK BUGS
ft
'X:h
Made from 20o*. water-stained
canvas, lined with ex-Army
woollen blankets, complete
with snap-on leu-straps, etc.
Price £4/19/6 each. Post */-.
KOKl> GASKETS
mm
mm
I or<l (iasliets, brand new, 24
stud. Price 7/6 eacb. In
dozen lots 5/- each.
HALM ENti IN E CLEANING
COMPOUND
-■&
3»«
S-Call. (Iriiin 10/-.
This compound is used as the
name suggests, and will clean
anything that is greasy or
dirty. Simply by applying
.with a brush and washing off.
Invaluable to mechanics and
garages, etc.
2-HOLE COOKER
Ideal lor camping. Can be
used with primus, stoves or
open fire. Price 10/- each.
BRAND NEW EX-ARMY
HAMMOCK. Price 19/6 each.
Post 3/6 extra.
as
mS
UMII
Or can be used as a Stretcher Cover.
Matte from heavy quality Jute, 10ft. Sin.
x 2ft. Sin. 14 eyelets either side. Re-
inforced. Two ropes llin. long. A
first-class huy.
JPREASE WRITE NAME & ADDRESS FT AIN LV & IN BROCK CETTEUS
No C.O.IR—MAIR, PHONE OR CARR—No C.0.1R
Add Exeltapff to Cheque*. Wl" 1 " «*o»*vo».«»d at Siding, please add Freight
ICING'S
£culeUefaf
LEATHER COOPS TYRES \
GENERAL MERCHANTS
122-124 Devonshire St.
Sydney
WHITE FOR POST FREE CATALOGUE
A few doors from Elizabeth Street, near Central Station.
Phones EA769I—E A 0155, JMX3954. After hours only: MXI2H9
