

SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
k
The Bulletin
A Rachel Henning Postscript —page 11
Wednesday, October 23, 1937
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
RIPON CATHEDRAL, YORKSHIRE
RIPON CA T HEDRAL, in Yorkshire, stands upon a site which was
first occupied by a religious house nearly thirteen centuries ago
when St. Wilfrid established a church there. The crypt of the Saxon
church still survives and is reached by descending a flight of steps
and passing along a narrow passage. It has a plain barrel roof and
measures only eleven feet eight, inches; at the east end of the crypt
is a narrow aperture, known as St. Wilfrid’s Needle, which, tradition
asserts, was used as a test for the virtuous, for only they were able
to pass through this recess.
Many architectural styles are incorporated in the Cathedral which
was begun in the 12th century and enlarged in the 15th and 16th
centuries. The chief feature of the exterior is the 13th-century West
Front, built in the Early English style and the only one of its kind in
Britain.
The plain exterior of the Cathedral gives little indication of the
light, spaciousness and beauty of the interior; the nave is exceptionally
high, and the great East Window is an outstanding example of
geometrical tracery. The carved stalls and misereres in the choir
are the work of the 15th-century school of Ripon wood-carvers, and
the library contains a collection of rare and valuable books and
illuminated manuscripts; three of the early books were printed by
Caxton.
Ripon is noted for its old-world charm and the ancient customs
which have survived down the centuries. Here the past and the
present exist side by side, and each night at 9 p.m. is enacted the
old custom of setting the watch. This takes place in the Market
Square when the Hornblower, wearing the traditional green coat and
three-cornered hat, blows one blast on the horn at each corner of
the Obelisk while the curfew bell rings in the Cathedral.
No. 312: the Homeland Series by the. House of Seppelt.


BOOKHUNTER. Box 2671, G.P.0.,, Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
THE MOON-CRASHERS
By Norman Lindsay
That the earth is subjected to
periodical cataclysm is an established
geological fact, and various theories
have been advanced to explain its
cause. The most recent is that of
an Austrian cosmographer named
Hoerbiger, and his explanation is that
as the moon travels round the earth
the pull of gravitation imposes on its
orbit a gradually diminishing spiral
which forces it finally to crash on the
earth, and so bring about cataclysm.
As this procedure is periodical, a
supply of moons is essential to its
mechanism. One moon having been
disposed of, it is assumed that another
moon, wandering aimlessly in space,
comes within the radius of the earth’s
gravitational pull and so takes its place
to supply motivity for the next cosmic
catastrophe. The evidence adduced to
support this phenomenon is that of a
tilted strandline in certain geological
strata, which is assumed to be due to
the tidal pull of the moon as it comes
closer to the earth, causing its ocean
masses to run uphill . . .
Excited by this remarkable
hypothesis, H. S. Bellamy, in his
“Built Before the Flood,” a work
dealing with the Tiahuanaco ruins in
the Andes, decides that one moon
would not have sufficient pull to lug
such a vast mass of water uphill, so
he gratuitously adds another moon to
do the crashing, as he requires to
prove that the Tiahuanaco ruins, now
12,000 feet above ocean level, were
originally situated on the sea-shore.
Now comes another moon-crasher,
Professor Surat, a Frenchman, with
his Atlantis and the Giants (Faber);
but Surat has a special reason to
affirm the excessive gravitational pull
of the moon as it approaches the earth
on its gradually diminishing spiral.
This is to account for his theory of a
race of giants once inhabiting the
earth, who brought civilisation to its
primitive peoples, and, having
performed that function, vanished
from the earth’s crust, leaving behind
them a few outsized bones buried in
it. implying that they supported human
carcasses from nine to twelve feet in
height.
On the theory that the weight of
atmospheric pressure is diminished by
an excessive gravitational pull from
the moon, he assumes that all growths
—plants, animals, insects, humans—
would expand in proportion to a release
from pressure, thus accounting for
the gigantic reptilia of the primeval
era as well as his alleged giants. How
he manages to reconcile the existence
of a highly cultured race of giants
along with these primordial monsters,
or why primitive man did not also
sprout upwards along with the giants,
is not stated. Nor how the giants
managed to survive down to compara-
tively recent prehistory eras and then
vanish suddenly from the collective
races of mankind.
When the scientific fantasy-monger
really-gets going on his pet hallucina-
tion he leaves the purveyor of fiction
toiling feebly in the rear. Here he
imposes on cosmic imbecility the
gratuitous exertion of producing a
relay of moons repeatedly crashing on
the earth to explain a phenomenon
which the physical economy of the
earth can perform effectively by a
simple release of volcanic activity,
which heaves up ocean strandlines and
displaces land and water masses, while
those of water are under the control
of the polar caps, which under varia-
tions of temperature melt to raise
ocean levels or, in glacial epochs,
freeze to lower them again.
The only rational theory yet
advanced to account for periodic
cataclysm is Joly’s concept of the
earth itself generating an excess of radio-
energy over long periods of time, which
escapes in volcanic activity, expanding
the earth’s crust, heaving up ocean-
beds, sinking and raising mountains
and displacing land and water masses.
One may assume that during this
period of geological chaos all organised
forms of life recede to an extremely
primitive generic form, till the cooling
of the earth’s crust and the stabilisa-
tion of continental land-masses with
essential climatic conditions restore
them to their normal state of being.
There is no need to stress that aspect
of an eternal pendulum-swing between
cataclysm and continental stability,
since biologists and evolutionists are
still hammering at it, and will never
cease their hammering. The major
obsession of mankind is a quest for
first causes.
First Causes! All muddled thinking,
all metaphysical moonshine, all
mystery-mongering derive from that
quest for a fixed point in time from
which a consciousness of time may be
measured. Man cannot face the terror
of timelessness. In a desperate effort
to escape from it he gets drunk on
figures, which are a last resort to
escape from reality into abstract space.
The latest finding of mathematical
poltroonery is to date the genesis of
this earth to a cosmic explosion which
is alleged to have occurred four-
thousand-million years ago . . ,
Admitted that mentalities which
resort to the mechanical logic of figures
are devoid of any logical faculty,
surely the loons who evolved that
absurd time-factor should have had a
feeble residuum of wit left to see that
they had arrived at the point they
expressly sought to avoid —in short,
timelessness. Why not say eternity
and be done with working out any
more of their ridiculous sums?
At the present stage of archaeological
and ethnological research no validity
can be claimed for prehistory time-
factors. Bellamy, in his “Built Before
the Flood” (1943), claims the
Tiahuanaco ruins to have been built
300,000 years ago. In a later work,
published in 1957, he comes down to a
modest 27,000. Later guesses have
placed them at 12.000, and have even
come as low as 1200 A.D.
As for Professor Surat and his
absurd giants, the evidence he adduces
in support of their existence arrives at
pure comedy. He drags in the
Tiahuanaco ruins to claim that they
were built by his giants; but. confronted
by the anomaly that the openings in
them, such as doors and windows,
were designed for normally propor-
tioned humanity, he decides that the
kind giants built them for man,
doubtless resigning themselves to
dossing out in the open. For the rest,
his work is a hodgepodge of references
to giants culled from folklore, myths,
tribal chronicles and epic poetry,
irrespective of any time-sequence in
relation to them.
It would hardly be within the range
of the viewpoint of a Professor Surat
to trace the myth of a race of giants to
its very obvious source in the folklore
of those aboriginal people of small
stature, such as still exist in the pygmies
of Africa and elsewhere and who
previously existed as the Firbolgs of
Ireland and the trdglodytes who mined
for copper in Spain, whose tiny shafts
and drives are still extant. To such
homunculi the coming of normally
sized mankind was the coming of a
race of giants, and their wars were
the wars of Titans, viewed with terror
by the pygmies crouching in their caves
and forests. As for those sideshow
sports on the average of human propor-
tions labelled giants, which have
appeared spasmodically in all ages, the
biological explanation of them as a
misfunctioning of their grandular
secretions disposes of any assumption
of a racial heritage.
And as disposing of any claim to
serious consideration by Professor
Surat, it is only necessary to quote his
assertion that the monolithic Andean
sculptures are the greatest achievement
in the art of sculpture yet created on
earth. Greater, he claims, than those
of the Egyptians, the Hindus or the
best products of the Renaissance.
Dismissing the Greeks with a con-
temptuous side-kick, he adds his final
C Continued on page 58)


mmm
Yangford-Penny says:—
“You can remember ANYTHING AT ALL that you WANT to remember! If yoo
know HOW! TRYING to remember is just not good enough. Lav, far no
good enough! Forgetfulness of things that are important for you to rememoer
is not the fault of a “poor" memory. If you are a normal person—then you
possess memory-ability far in excess of what you may fondly imagine. >
this is not ‘just advertising: blah, blah, blah . . / —this is FACI .
“TRENT” WILL SHOW YOU HOW TO REMEMBER
, occupations
anything
dates
NAMES AND FACES: —people’s names . . faces . . .initials .
. . . addresses . . . birthdays . . . hobbies and interests .
AT ALL that you WANT to remember about people.
FlGURES:—statistical and reference figures . . . constants .
prices . . . telephone numbers . . . measurements . . . etc. . _
WHAT YOU READ:—text and reference book material . . . trade journals
. . your STUDIES . . no matter WHAT it is you are shown how to
“GET” the essentials after —TWICE READING ! ! ! .
LECTURES, CLASS ROOM WORK, ETC.—you will learn hoW t take in
the essentials and RETAIN this knowledge PROGRESSIVELY
THROUGHOUT THE YEAR!
WORD-FOR-WORD MEMORISING: —lodge ritual . . . definitions . . . poetry
. . . quotations . . . plays . . . actors’ lines . . . IV scripts . . . ANY-
THING AT ALL that has to be known “word-for-word.”
CONVERSATIONS:—essentiaI details from conferences . . . interviews . . .
instructions . . . reports . . . conversations.
WHAT YOU SEE AND HEAR: —special techniques to enable you to recall
with absolute accuracy—what you particularly WANT to remember of
what you SEE and HEAR. A most important requirement of memory!
HOW TO REMEMBER AHEAD: —appointments . . . things that you want to
do “at a certain time”. . . how to remember the many important things
that “hit” your mind at all kinds of inconvenient times, that you want
to be “reminded” of later.
BLUE-PRINTS, DIAGRAMS, PLANS, DRAWINGS, ETC.—yes there s a
special section for those of you who wish to remember such details.
WHERE TO PUT THINGS: —von will thank “TRENT” to the end of your
days for showing you how to INSTANTLY remember where you left
your keys, your glasses, your pen. your screwdriver.
EQUATIONS AND FORMULAEengineering . . . chemical . . . navigational
etc. . . . yes, several pages of the course are devoted to this
important (for some people) memory requirement.
SPELLING: —so you “can’t spell for nuts!” All right there are several
pages for your benefit.
UNUSUAL TECHNICAL, BOTANICAL, ANATOMICAL. FOREIGN, AND
SUCH WORDS AND NAMES: —the speciaT section on this subject enables
you to remember such words after TWICE reading or hearing.
WHICH IS WHICH: —stalagmite or stalactite? . . . concave or convex? . . .
foolscap or quarto? . . . etc. . . . never again need you be confounded
by which is which?
LONG LISTS OF THINGS —IN CORRECT ORDER . . . FOREIGN
LANGUAGES . . . MUSIC:—“TRENT” is very COMPREHENSIVE.. You
take out of it whatever is applicable to your own particular requirements.
—Taken seriously, and applied intelligently “TRENT” will: —
# stimulate your senses — “tone them up” generally.
• make you more observant.
• strengthen your powers of concentration.
• enable you to grasp important points quickly.
# increase greatly your general and specific knowledge .
% develop your reasoning powers.
# help you to think clearly and specifically.
• enable you to “GET” the facts, quickly and accurately.
# cut your studying time by 30 per cent. . . . and more.
# save you much valuable time —in general.
• help you to keep “mentally young.”
mem o r ¥
100 %
RELIABLE?
Success? Or failure?
Business executive or aspiring politician—air pilot
or clerk —industrialist or professional man—
— farmer or grazier student or housewife —it
matters not who you are. or what you are —there
can be no doubt that your success or failure is
dependent so very much upon YOUR MEMORY!
Do you not agree?
You already HAVE the memory-ability! There is
not the ieast shadow of doubt about that.
It is well worth your while to learn just how this
memory ability of yours functions—how to put it
to effective use.
You can trust “Trent!”
“TRENT” is the trade name of Langford-Penny’S
seven-lesson course of instruction —
“YOUR MEMORY! HOW IT WORKS!
HOW TO USE IT!”
The course that has already made thousands of
friends in this country alone. The course that was
rigidly, yet successfully, tested by the N-S.W.
Police Dept. The course of instruction that has
been acclaimed as . . 100 per cent, ‘fair-dinkum.’ ”
Are you in the panel?
In the panel at the left are listed some of the
benefits that you can expect from the “TRENT”
course. These claims are covered by WRITTEN
GUARANTEE! Place a tick against those items
that are of interest to you. AND TO THE
MEMBERS OF YOUR FAMILY!
Then—if suitably impressed and keen to learn
further details —fill in the coupon below, and post it
to ns. Even if you are sceptical—still send the
coupon. What you will receive in return will
quickly set your doubts at rest. Free literature
will come to you in a PLAIN, SEALED envelope.
Your enquiry places you under no obligation
whatsoever.
“Are you studying for exams.?”
“TRENT” is the ONLY course of its kind that
deals with the application of memory to study.
Letters in our files testify to the fact that
“Trented” students, apart from being successful in
their exams., have been able to — “. . . cot their
studying time down by as much as from 30 to 50
per cent. . . You will have abundant evidence
of this when you receive the free 16-page booklet—■
“ARE YOU STUDYING FOR EXAMINATIONS?”
NO MATTER WHO YOU ARE—NO MATTER WHERE
YOU LIVE —“TRENT” CAN BE YOUR ONE-WAY
FIRST-CUASS TICKET TO
A FIRST-CLASS MEMORY!
CAFE PHONE WRITE or MAIL, THE
COUPON BELOW for full particulars.
“TRENT” MIND AND MEMORY DEVELOPMENT
PTY. LTD.
Churchill Chambers, 61 Market St., SYDNEY
(opp. Woolworths)
PHONES: 8M6392 .184857
Mr. W. Langford-Penny, Principal,
“TRENT” Mind & Memory Development Pty. Ltd.,
Box 4578, G.P.O-, SYDNEY
I am genuinely interested in your course of instruc-
tion. Please send me, without obligation, full details.
Mr., Mrs., Miss
PULL Address
(Print details please) ♦
(P.S. If you are studying for exams., remember
that “TRENT” can cut your studying time by
30 per cent. —and more.) ( B * 23107)


The Bulletin
Wednesday , October 23, 1957
VoL 78—No. 4054
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street , Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
Hew Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
THE Commonwealth Government has
come in for more than the usual
criticism of its Estimates this year, and
especially of the civil-service salary-
estimates, which are open to query in
many particulars, if not on the special
ones which most worry the press.
There has been phenomenal growth
in numbers of employees in some
departments, but not in all, and the
essential concern about personnel is
not its strength but the manner in
which its status is rising into the
heavens. Soon, in some departments,
there will be few plain, ordinary clerks
left; everybody will be a director,
principal assistant-secretary, technical
officer or what-have-you and, of course,
paid accordingly.
This drift began as a matter of
snobbery under the Curtin-Chifiey
regimes when they began to implement
Dr. Evatt’s great scheme for overlaying
the career servants (the common or
garden fellows who had worked them-
selves up with the aid of time, experi-
ence and sometimes ability) with an
upper-crust of parlor-Pink M.A.'s and
Ph.D.s. These types have now become
so much the vogue that they call the
tune in the ranks of the services, and
they have a natural aversion to being
clerks and doing ordinary hard work;
they much prefer to be “experts” and
minute files and make starry-eyed
plans, often impracticable. Ministers
(if they try) and the old, hardheaded
(and for years underpaid) permanents
of the ancient regime (who do try)
have the greatest difficulty in checking
them. At the least relaxation of
pressures above they rise like Sputniks.
The results of their operations are
largely to be seen in the criticisms of
the Parliamentary Committee on
Public Accounts headed by the
realistic Professor Bland, which show
how airy-fairy the methods of most
departments have become when dealing
with the taxpayers’ cash.
Some of the criticisms have been
severe in the past, though some were
themselves open to criticism in that
they seemed to overstep the bounds
of the committee’s franchise, especially
those dealing with the Defence Depart-
ment. However, it is possible to
sympathise with them, though they do
little good.
All that seems to have happened
with the finances of the defence-service
departments is that they have become
more secretive —the Army administra-
tion now lumps the whole of the
pay-list on the military side below
major-general rank under a single item
of £24 million in the salary-list and
then deducts an item which is described
as “amount estimated to remain
unexpended,” a mere £4,741,000. The
same practice is followed with the
civilian service of the Army, which is
growing in numbers while the military
side is not.
These estimates of money which are
expected not to be spent grow every
year—by £1,300,000-odd in the Army
military pay-vote; in the Air Force by
£700,000 to £1,719.000; and in the
R.A.N. from £1,929,000 to £3,199,000.
One of the particular financial
dreams which the Public Accounts
Committee clamped-down on concerned
£l6 million voted to three departments
as an advance from the Treasurer of
which only £3.7 million was spent.
The Treasury, in fact, didn’t come
well out of the business because it
obviously did not satisfy itself that the
advances were grounded on sound
estimates.
Some of its own budgeting was
nothing to write home about apart
from this, however, for it was criticised
for having underestimated by £24,000
the cost of printing “Hansard”
(£68,000) and by £21,731 the cost
of printing Parliamentary papers
THE CHALLENGE
THAT IS
QUEENSLAND—
page 22
(£37,730). It was found that some
overspending was due to faulty account-
ing methods in the Government Printing
Office —controlled, of course, by the
Treasury.
The Attorney - General’s Depart-
ment was accused of “not appreciating
the need for accurate estimating and of
not having used the best methods for
properly controlling expenditure.” It
had, for example, underestimated the
cost of the peace-officer guard by a
matter of £75,000 in a £570,000
estimate—and this was the fourth
successive year in which there had
been an underestimate.
Then the Trade Department was
said to have wrongly dealt with
accounts and “submitted inaccurate
information and misleading statements
to the committee.” It persists in making
payments overseas for private firms
despite repeated refusal by the Treasury
to sanction them.
The Department of Territories was
noted as having for three years
requisitioned votes of £26,000-odd for
publicity while spending only £178;
and in Papua-New Guinea the local
Administration was declared likely to
be short £400,000 in its funds because
of overspending on capital works and
short-fall in revenue.
There were a number of other
instances, not very large in the
aggregate, but still disturbing as
showing how little control there seems
to be over departmental finance and
how carelessly it is administered.
The committee has done a useful
service in forcing Parliament to place
at least some check on this looseness
of method and carelessness in handling
a growing slice of tax-money which is
channelled off increasingly for official
use. The Government from now
onwards will not bring down supple-
mentary Estimates; instead, a statement
indicating the details of supplementary
expenditure will be submitted to
Parliament to cover residual expendi-
ture from Treasurer’s advances, without
blocking Parliamentary control of
spending.
The whole matter has wider meaning
than mere finance. There is an implica-
tion in it that Ministers, who are still
supposed to be responsible for their
departments even in a Welfare State,
are not applying their minds to their
jobs as thoroughly as they might be.
They seem to be always on the ball
when there is any kudos to be gained,
but Parliament sees some remarkable
exhibitions of ignorance of the matters
for which they are supposed to be
“responsible.”
A few days ago, for instance, Sir
William Kent Hughes alleged in Parlia-
ment that the whole of the Australian
gold export, valued at £l4 million, was
going to Communist China via Hong
Kong and Macao. But though gold is
a vital strategic export which must be
sold for dollars, the best the Minister
for Primary Production, Mr. McMahon,
could say was that it was “sold by the
Commonwealth Bank in the best
interests of Australia and the sterling-
area,” that its destination “could vary
from day Jo day,” and that he “would
find out the ultimate destination of
Australia’s gold export.”
There are a lot of other things that
need finding out.


IVAN SKVINSKY SKVAR


PLAIN ENGLISH
Ivan and Abdul
[By "Kit Dam")
On the face of it there is nothing more
absurd than that just before an election,
which takes place next week, the Turks
would want war with Syria.
Syria isn’t worth a war, and the Turks
know well that war with Syria would
mean war with Russia, and probably—
almost certainly—a world war and the
break-up of the Baghdad Pact. Another
good reason is that in any war on a large
scale Turkey would be in a nutcracker.
Although the Turks like a fight and are
tough as any people in the world, they
are realists, as anybody who has dealt
with them knows.
The whole situation has been
engineered by Moscow. For one
thing, the Kremlin wishes to break-up
the Baghdad Pact, which stands in the
way of its ambitions in the Middle East,
and it feels that if it can persuade the
semi-hysterical little Arab countries that
the Americans are involved in a
diabolical conspiracy to sool the Turks on
to the innocent Syrians it might do this
with relative ease.
Secondly, Turkey has probably the
most efficient Army within the Con-
tinental section of the European bloc, and
it is a strategic area vital to the mainten-
ance of United States domination of the
Middle East.
It is vital to Russia to frighten Turkey
into refusing bases to the U.S. which
would threaten Moscow at short range.
Thirdly, with the Turkish elections com-
ing on, Moscow is eager to produce a
situation which would see the end of the
Menderes regime, which it has found too
tough to handle, and create political and
therefore defence chaos.
Finally, Moscow is anxious to test the
attitude of the Americans. If it dared, it
would take over Turkey and the
Dardanelles tomorrow. And, looking at
the reception, U.S. and overseas, accorded
to the Dulles foreign policy, they are no
doubt anxious to see how far they can
go in grabbing the Middle East without
world reprisals and singed claws.
It would be idle to speculate who did
most to perturb the Turks —the Russians,
the Syrians or the Americans. At any
rate, the magnitude and direction of the
arming of the Syrians, recently allied to
Egypt in a military pact, threatened the
security of Turkey, more especially since
the Russians deployed large forces in
Bulgaria on the approaches to the
Chataldja Lines—the Turkish defences on
the European side—last year during the
Hungarian crisis on the ground of local
unrest.
The Turks now were forced to deploy
some troops on the Syrian side as a
matter of sheer precaution.
The Turkish deployment was obviously
defensive. It was open, meant to be seen,
and to cover the Cilician agricultural area.
If it had been aggressive in intention the
assembly would have taken place on the
Anatolian (northern) side of the Taurus,
where it could not be observed.
The Russians are completely aware of
this fact. But, tongue-in-cheek, they
chose a time when the U.N. Assembly
was providing them with a forum in New
York to charge the Americans with
planning to use the Turks for an attack on
Syria. To add to the confusion —breaking
various undertakings mutually agreed on
as part of the plans for the Geophysical
Year —they unloosed their satellite, as an
advertisement of their power to crush the
Western defences. The stunt had all
the carefully rehearsed elements of
deliberate intimidation.
The great Western Powers take the
Russian moves seriously, as is shown by
the tough note in a speech made by Mr.
Macmillan obviously to show that the
U.K. had a very lively interest in the
Baghdad Pact zone and that it fully
supported the United States. Also, by
Mr. Macmillan’s visit to Washington and
Ottawa.
The final step was the move in the
United Nations Assembly to secure a
commission to investigate the Russian
charges, while on the same day, follow-
ing the visit to Marshal Zhukov to
Belgrade, the cynical Tito of Yugoslavia
recognised the East German Communist
Government. He has been living on the
bounty of the West for years, and his
action represents another betrayal of U.S.
diplomacy. He is back in the Moscow
fold.
Hidden Resources
The benefits for citizens which flow when
a State instrumentality gets effective
competition from private enterprise have
been illustrated by the announcement by
the Victorian State Savings Bank Com-
missioners of a far more generous loan-
scheme for housing ; increased loans for
farmers, and extensive loans to munici-
palities and other official bodies.
As late as last March, A. E. Hocking,
the chairman, was pointing to the diffi-
culties of the bank in supporting loans
for Government utilities, aside from hous-
ing, but the continued rapid growth of
the private savings-banks has resulted in
the commissioners discovering resources
which apparently did not exist in March.
Under the new plan homebuilders and
buyers will receive loans up to £4000;
the credit-foncier long-term home-loans
will be increased from £2500 to £2750;
loans on farms will be granted up to
£BOOO on a three-fifth valuation basis ;
municipalities with special requirements
will receive £15,000 to £25,000 each
yearly, and further loans of £250,000
each to the State Electricity Commission,
the Board of, Works, Gas and Fuel Cor-
poration and the Victorian Government
Home Finance Trust were announced.
The private banks, because of restric-
tive Federal legislation, haven’t the same
freedom in granting loans to house-
purchasers. They must invest 70 per cent,
of their savings-bank deposits in Govern-
ment and semi-government loans, and
only 20 per cent, in housing, spread
throughout the nation.
Within a few days of the V.S.S.B.’s
announcement that it was possible, after
all, to provide more money for loans
for the State utilities as well as ease con-
siderably the demand in Victoria for
house-finance, the Premier announced in
Parliament a bill to allow the State
Savings Bank to grant its depositors
cheque facilities, a service the commis-
sioners had not deemed necessary until
they were gingered-up by the private
banks.
♦
Seismic Stations
[Front Canberra]
The new seismic station nearing com-
pletion in Port Moresby for the Bureau
of Mineral Resources, Geology and Geo-
physics of the Department of National
Development will be one of Australia’s
key stations for the study of earthquakes.
The vault of the structure has been
completed and the instruments are now
being installed. The station is expected
to begin operations within the next few
weeks.
The recordings of the Port Moresby
station will provide data additional to
that already received from the bureau’3
seismic station at Rabaul. This will give
Australian Plays and Players
[From “Collins Street”]
The acquisition by J. C. Williamson, Ltd.,
of the rights of the Australian play “The
Multi-colored Umbrella” within a. week
of its opening at Melbourne Little
Theatre, indicates a new era in this
country for writers and artists on the
stage. #
It was the second important premiere
of an Australian play in Melbourne in
the last two years, and the second instant
success; the commercial managements
decided smartly not to let this one get
away—not after Ray Lawler had been
paid £60,000 for the film rights of the first,
“Summer of the Seventeenth Doll”!
Earlier there had been “Rusty Bugles,”
which made a fortune for its backers and
set-up its author, Sumner Locke Elliot,
in New York, and Hugh Hastings’s “Sea-
gulls Over Sorrento,” although Hastings
had had to set that in Britain. “Seagulls,”
which Hastings could have set in Aus-
tralia very nicely indeed, was a long-run
wherever it played.
The inevitable result of the production
of Australian plays is that they must be
cast with Australians, and this in turn
gives managements more courage in
casting them in imported plays ; all hands
who have seen both agree that the present
production in Melbourne of “The Chalk
Garden” is better cast for the most part
than the current West End production,
although, of course, both have the vital
grande dame —Edith Evans in London
and Dame Sybil Thorndike in Melbourne.
Peter Randall, one of the accom-
plished and theatrically-knowing trio who
conduct the Melbourne Little Theatre,
returned recently from a world tour well
content to find that Melbourne was the
third-ranking city in the world for the
theatre.


greater knowledge of the subsurface
movements which take place in the earth’s
crust in the earthquake “belt” between
Japan and Papua-New Guinea.
The Port Moresby observatory is one
of five new stations being established
either expressly for the International
Geophysical Year or as part of a long-
range plan to increase our knowledge of
the structure and composition of the
earth’s interior.
The others are being established at
Mundaring, W.A. (Bureau of Mineral
Resources), Canberra (Australian
National University), Adelaide (Adelaide
University) and Charters Towers (Uni-
versity of Queensland).
Previously there were only six first-
class seismic stations in Australia and
the Territories. They were: Brisbane
(University of Queensland), Sydney
(Riverview College) and the Bureau
stations at Rabaul, Melbourne, Mac-
quarie Island and Mawson on the Ant-
arctic mainland.
The new stations will be equipped with
the most modern and highly sensitive of
instruments, and the data they will pro-
vide will be welcomed by international
scientists who, for years, have been handi-
capped by the lack of seismic informa-
tion from this part of the world.
■ ♦
Vale a Beau Sabreur
[By “Ek Duin”]
The death of Sir Thomas White, D.F.C.,
at 69, removes one of Australia’s best
and most loved citizens: one who had
been in the thick of things for over 40
years, and who was still full of zest for
action when he died suddenly in
Melbourne.
“Tommy” White was pale, boyish and
artless of mien even in his latter years
as Australian High Commissioner in
London.
Seemingly a delicate boy, he was
educated privately in Melbourne. But his
name appeared on the first page of the
volume of the Australian War History
dealing with the Australian Flying Corps.
He was founder of the Australian
Flying Club, the senior of the first four
Australian officers to undergo war-time
flying-instruction (in 1914 at Pt. Cook).
He was later one of the first four pilots
sent with Australia’s original half-flight
to Mespot.
There, with Yeats-Brown (“Bengal
Lancer”) as observer, he was nearly
captured when reconnoitring Ctesiphon,
when engine-failure made them land
within reach of the enemy. They taxied
along the ground with the wind 15
miles to safety, the observer standing up
with a rifle to ward-off attack.
They had worse luck when he and
Yeats-Brown volunteered in November,
1915, during the Ctesiphon operations,
to fly out and cut the telegraph-lines
connecting Turkey with Baghdad. They
set out at down armed with necklaces of
guncotton and enough petrol in the tank
to take them to the point of action, where
they hit a telephone-pole and were
disabled.
They blew-up the wires under fire,
filled the tanks from their petrol-cans
and tried to run out along the ground as
they did before, were grabbed by the
local Arabs and handed over to the
Turks.
Taken eventually, via Afion Karahissar,
to Constantinople, White and a friend
succeeded in 1918 in escaping during a
railway collision while being moved,
stowed away on a Ukrainian steamer
disguised as Turks, and, after 33 days
lying hidden in the ship anchored off
Galata Bridge, right in the Turkish capital,
eventually reached Odessa, which the
Austro-Germans had just taken over
from the Soviets. There, disguised as
Russians, they remained adventurously
until they succeeded in getting to Bul-
garia. They arrived at Salonika a week
before the armistice.
Returning to Australia, White married
"Hey! Maybe Malcolm Muggeridge or Lord Altrincham
pick on you next!”
Alfred Deakin’s daughter. He was one
of the founders of the Legacy movement,
with which he was connected right up to
his death —president of Melbourne Legacy
in 1925—and took a considerable part
in early returned-soldier organisation.
He switched over from the Air Force
to the Army to command the Royal
Melbourne Regiment for five years,
retiring with the rank of lieutenant-
colonel in 1939.
Meanwhile he had entered politics by
winning Balaklava in 1929, and held the
seat continuously till 1951. He was
Minister for Trade and Customs, 1933-38.
On the outbreak of war he joined the
R.A.A.F., and in 1941, at 53, went over-
seas and imperturbably took up active
command of the R.A.F. station at
Brighton during the Battle of Britain,
becoming a group-captain in 1943.
After the return of the Menzies Gov-
ernment in 1949 he was Minister for Air
and Civil Aviation before becoming High
Commissioner in London, where he
proved to be as lively an Ambassador
as he was an airman.
He was an Australian whose name in
an earlier and more romantic age would
certainly have become a national school-
boy legend during his lifetime.
♦
The Vickers Viscount
JFrom Canberra]
The ill-informed attacks on Vickers
Viscount aircraft made in the Senate have
been more than adequately answered by
officers of the U.K. Information Service.
While not referring specifically to
Senator lan Wood’s damaging references
to the aeroplane which gave T.A.A. such
advantages, the service has pointed out
that confidence of the world’s airlines in
the Vickers Viscount was underlined by
the increasing orders placed for the turbo-
prop airliner.
New contracts under discussions with
U.S. airline proprietors are expected to
bring the number of Viscounts ordered
up to 400 in the near future.
Viscounts are already operating in 20
countries. They have been ordered by 34
airlines, six Governments and five private
companies, ranging from Iceland to New
Zealand.
T.A.A.’s contentment with having
gained the top in Australian air opera-
tions with the Viscounts was ruffled
when the new Ansett-A.N.A. company
showed itself determined to retain what
control the old A.N.A. had over Butlers.
Butlers has Viscounts which it operates
on several intra-State routes, but if
Ansett-A.N.A. was successful in captur-
ing the Butler service the Viscounts could
be put into work on the main inter-State
trunk-routes in direct competition with
the T.A.A. fleet.
This would give the new organisation
an important grip in the field while it
negotiates for later planes to meet the
T.A.A. challenge presented through the
Fokker Friendships, due early next year.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
LOOKS as if we haven’t heard the last
of the Last of the Saxons; a
schoolmaster in all seriousness inserted
an obituary for him in the Sydney
“Herald,” on October 14:
ON ACTIVE SERVICE
GODWINSON.—-Harold, King of
England, killed in action near Hastings
October 14, 1066. Mourned by Godwine,
Edmund, Magnus and Ulf.
The management next day passed it off
as only 1066 and all that, and were con-
tent to let bygones be bygones ; but you
got the impression that it would be God
help anyone who got by them with the
one about Queen Anne. —“G. 8.”
❖ ❖ <*
“Bo”: It’s not only tea- and wine-
tasters who can discriminate daintily. As
a lifelong envelope- and stamp-licker I
can claim to have become a connoisseur of
gums. Stamps have become standardised
in flavor and have therefore waned in
interest. But one may still occasionally
come upon an envelope-gum to savor
with delight—perhaps a gum-arabic with
a dash of old cabbage-water, or bullock’s
heel impregnated with asafoetida. Private
enterprise is losing a golden opportunity.
If envelope-manufacturers would give
their gums flavors such as beer or
gin - and - peppermint, envelope - licking,
instead of being just another uninterest-
ing chore, could become a popular
pastime.
* ❖ ❖
“C.W.S.”: A journalist on one of the
Speck’s dailies, having pounded the City
Council about a sad and sorry remnant of
an Air Force flag that disgraced the Town
Hall, was made a present of the eyesore.
The next day his column suggested the
Lord Mayor’s car was a bit obsolete . . .
“Doric”: Report of a car accident,
heard in the radio news: “The driver was
taken to hospital suffering from a broken
arm, a broken leg, broken ribs, concus-
sion and shock —his condition is reported
as satisfactory.”
♦> <♦
“An Chuidh”: Mrs. Flora MacLeod of
MacLeod, who recently landed in Aus-
tralia, has been reported to be the first and
only woman chief of any Scottish clan. A
trifle off the piark, seeing the chief of
my own clan, Clan Hay, is the Countess
of Errol, and she is not our first woman
chief. Several other clans have or have
had women leaders. As the Stewart kings
(and queens) were also chiefs of Clan
IT WOULD NEVER HAVE DONE FOR THE DUKE!
Stewart, that gives that clan several women
chiefs, too. However, all Gaelic titles are
masculine and when held by a woman are
merely prefixed by “Ban” (woman).
* * ❖
“Corio”: From the “Wanted” column
of our daily: “Young. Girl, no objection,
New Australian, live in or out.”
❖ ♦> *l*
“Castlereagh”: It isn’t only adults who
hold down two jobs. My milk is delivered
by a bright youngster of about 12. He
isn’t the milkman’s son ; he lives near my
.home in a new face-brick bungalow that
can’t have cost a penny less than £6OOO.
His father has a fine new car. When the
lad has finished his milk-delivery he
jumps on his bicycle and hurries off to
school. After school he reports with his
bicycle to a grocer, and delivers rush
orders.
❖ *Z+ ❖
“Roomy”: The discussion was on
about guests for the teenage-party. The
general opinion seemed to be that they’d
like to invite Glad, but they didn’t think
they would, because it would mean having
that stiff Ronnie along, too. I inquired
why, and was told that Glad and Ronnie
were “going steady.” I expressed astonish-
ment that two fifteen-year-olds should be
so serious about each other. “Oh,”
chorused the gang, “they’re not serious l
Going steady only means they go to and
from school together, don’t date anyone
else, and don’t dance with anyone else at
parties.”
♦l* ❖ (*
“Narumee”: There couldn’t be
another George like “Doynest’s” (B.
9/10/’57), could there? My fag-end,
overheard in the material department,
went like this: “It’s no good my buying
any more yet—l’ve six dresses I can't
finish-off until George has made the
buttonholes!” “But,” said her com-
panion, “George has just bought you one
of those machines that makes button-
holes.” “Oh, yes,” rejoined the first.
“That's what he uses—George can’t
sew !”
>jf *♦« ,♦«
“0.W.W.”: In a rather dingy “men
only” boardinghouse where I stayed a
few days, the following notice was posted
over the only washbasin:
Please shave at least every fourth day.
Long- hairs block the pipes.
CHECKMATE
“The new anti-Communist Government in San
Marino ended protest-strikes on its first day ot
office by declaring the day a public holiday.
The newly elected Government
Of the State of San Marino,
When workers struck in discontent,
Declared a general beano.
Because, no matter what you say,
You can talk ad infinitum,
You cant strike on a holiday
Unless you work to spite ’em.
So give the people what they like,
A State of Total Leisure;
When all of them are out on strike,
They’ll go to work for pleasure.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


T AST year, with 279 men and
' women from the British Common-
wealth, 1 attended the Duke of Edin-
burgh’s Conference on the “Problems of
Industrial Communities” at Oxford. At
the last dinner in the Great Hall of
Christchurch, when H.R.H. rose to close .
the hectic three weeks, we rose too and,
looked down upon by the portraits of
past dons, professors and students, back
to the founder of the College, Cardinal
Wolsey, sang “For He’s a Jolly Good
Fellow.” As we sat down again, H.R.H.
slid one hand into his coat-pocket, and
with the faintest suggestion of a smile
said, “Now l know why you’re all in
industry and not in grand opera.”—-
“Enarby.” *
*l* ♦> ♦>
“Sevenelms”: A glossy sedan in the.
next-door garage has a stable-companion
which 1 judge to be a 1902 Rudge-
Whitworth bicycle. Hail, rain or, shine
early every Saturday it is wheeled out
and mounted from the rear-axle elonga-
tion, and our admiration for the requisite
physique of our elderly neighbor is ex-
celled only by our interest in the decrepit
clobber donned for this weekly ritual —
his normal gardening-togs, worn but neat,
are comparatively Saville Row. We saw
the light when our young son last school
holidays took a morning paper-round and
coincided with neighbor two miles away,
collecting rent from his three cottages.
♦> »> *
“Ailsey”: Sydney newspapers have
been publishing a picture of a U.S. con-
vict who, naked from the waist up, got
halfway through the bars, but was
detected. A convict incarcerated at the
combined courthouse-jail ’ at Hartley
(N.S.W.) in the mid-’thirties of last cen-
tury did rather better. He soaped his body
all over, slipped through the bars and got
clean away, probably to perish in the
bush. The handsome stone building, with
two of the cells intact, is now a show-
place for tourists, who usually make an
inspection on their way from the Blue
Mountains to Jenolan Caves.
♦l* ►> *z*
“Kate”: In American stores the sale
of “I Hate Elvis” buttons (15 cents
apiece) was so high they had to reduce
the price of their “I Love Elvis” buttons.
Still, there may be a bit of dissimulation
here ; a nice girl is hardly likely to wear
her heart on her button.
“Pelga”: I wasted some time browsing
through the advertisements for near-new
and semi-contemporary dream-homes of
select type. Was astonished to discover
what strange and deplorable names the
rooms have these days. “Powder-room,”
“lounge-dinette,” “rumpus-room” and
“breakfast-ingle” are bad enough—but
what about '‘launderette”?
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Nunk”: My son listened to the
8.8.C./A.B.C. broadcast of “Macbeth,”
Part I, for school purposes. I asked him
"It's 'Waltzing Matilda in rock-'n'-roll time played by Billy Bong
and his Jumbucks.”
what he thought of it. He was sort of
hesitant: “Those witches,” he ventured
at last, “they could have been Min and
Henry on ‘The Goon Show,’ and the first
time Lady Macbeth came on . . .” “Go
on,” I said, “what is it?” “Bluebqttle,”
he said. “She sounded just like Blue-
bottle ! ”
* * *
“Bicky”: Comment by a race-broad-
caster on the reversal of form by a horse
that had just romped -home an easy
winner: “This colt is harder to follow
than a drunken sailor on a Sunday
morning.”
♦> ♦♦♦
“L.R.M.”: Our show - committee
offered a prize of ss. each for children’s
exhibits of a cock-pigeon and a he.n ; in
each case the entry-fee was sixpence. The
town has a flock of between 50 and 60
birds, all cleanskins which roost accessibly
in the school and Town Hall; yet there
wasn’t a single entry. The committee
can’t decide whether children today have
more money or less initiative than they
had as kids.
♦;« ❖
“Doormat”: Old lags at Victoria’s
Pentridge jail sent a message of good
wishes to their former chaplain when he
took up parish work at Northcote. He
said at the Northcote welcome he was
“glad his former parishioners were not
able to be present” as the building wasn’t
big enough ; but if the other people at
the welcome were glad, it was maybe
because of the size of the building.
♦> <* ❖
“Maitri”: A Sydney musician enter-
taining a number of fellow-practitioners
apologised because the piano was a bit
out-of-tune. “I got the man to come and
tune it,” he explained, “but when I made
a slight complaint about the way he’d
tuned it the last time he was on the job,
he just glared at me and snarled ‘l’ve
never been spoken to like that in my
life,’ put on his hat and left.” “But what
on earth did you say to him?” one of the
guests wanted to know. “Nothing he
could take offence at,” replied the host.
“1 merely asked if, as a matter of academic
interest, he’d mind telling me exactly
what Chinese musical mode he’d tuned
the bass of the instrument to last time he
came.”
* * * jgf ' |
“J.J.A.”: Since when have three-tone
cars been such a new fashion (B.
2/10/’57)? I own three vehicles, a ’27,
’3O and a ’35 model, all different makes
and all three-tone. Some of those veterans
even got to the fourth color. Still, I
saw better than that the other day—a car
all colors of the rainbow, no one area
of color more than 2ft. square, and all
different. Obviously the owner had picked
up a batch of sample tins of paint.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Swanee”: As to engraving your
address on your watch (B. 9/10/’57),
when several floors were extended to
cover the open space over a loading-yard
in a Bligh-street building a thief entered
the warehouse through a window in the
wall of the adjoining club, made his way
to the counting-house and secured some
loose petty cash, a few stamps and a gun-
metal watch which had been left behind
by one of the clerks. Detectives soon
detained a man and found the watch,


which the clerk identified through a chip
. near the figure four. At the hearing before
the magistrate the defendant’s solicitor
queried the clerk’s ability to identify his
watch. “Send a man to Anthony
Hordern’s watch-repair department,” the
clerk said. “They took the number when
they cleaned the watch for me a few
weeks back.” The court adjourned ; a
detective checked the records; and on
the resumption it was only a matter of
minutes before the thief was' on his way
to serve six months.
*l* Vf
“C.A.A.”: Under special amending
State legislation Stawell, home of the
famous Gift meeting, has been elevated
to the status of a town. The statute
requiring a horse-race to be run at some
types of athletic sports to make betting
legal on the athletic events has kept
Stawell a borough for 88 years. Over the
years the old town (it was first so pro-
claimed 99 years ago) has had its advo-
cates for a rise in status irrespective of its
effect on the Gift meeting, but they have
always been outnumbered.
COMPLETED a car-repair job in record
time for the matron of a city
hospital. Extremely pleased, she assured
us that if ever we were admitted to her
hospital, we’d receive personal attention..
In fact, we‘d receive world-attention —we
found out later she was the matron at
the Women’s. —“Jason.”
❖ ♦> *i*
“Imperial 55”: After all, “Doric,” men
in business get a bit callous about death
after a while, with all the funerals of
colleagues or clients they have to attend
(B. 9/10/’57). I know two who have
“ Right-oh — tomorrow, same time, same place!”
swapped tenners, and have left instruc-
tions that they are to be given private
funerals to save their friends and col-
leagues from having to attend ; and the
tenners are to be used to start a wake.
hj» *ji ♦:»
“Blow”: Sometimes it not only jars but
also can be most embarrassing to friends
and acquaintances when one with
academic qualifications, and perhaps
honors, is referred to as “cultured.” It’s
tantamount to saying: “a bit of a poseur,
but broadminded and so refined.”
*> *fr
“D’Artagnan”: The bumpy, war-time
trip to Cairns by DC2 had not dis-
couraged a six-months-old infant whose
airsick mother was out to it. The hostess,
distracted by others’ needs, asked me to
mind the baby. The little chap fought to
get back to Mum, and my lack of restraint
drew testy comment from a Brigadier
across the aisle who seemed to regard it
as lack of military efficiency. At Towns-
ville the mother revived and began to
feed the baby with a bottle as we left the
plane for a breather. Last back, in
company with the Brig., I entered a silent
cabin. The Brig, said “See? Mother
knows best.” I replied, “At least Mother
had something to feed him with.” This
conversation, heard throughout the plane,
evoked titters and some outright mirth.
Resuming my seat I saw the red-faced
mother topping-up the bottle-feed an
naturelle —my embarrassment and hers
were maintained throughout the journey.
Revenge is sweet. At Cairns the Brig.’s
wife met the plane and recognised the
mother as an old friend with “Joan, meet
John. Fancy meeting you two on the
plane. I hope he helped with the baby.”
♦♦♦ *:*
“Bicky”: Man I know of won £lO,OOO
in a State lottery ; a few days later his
wife was greeted at her front-door by an
aggressive-looking character who claimed
he was the person responsible for picking
out her husband’s winning marble, and
that a little present for his trouble would
not be amiss. As she was in the house
on her own, and the man standing before
- her was obviously a standover merchant,
she gave him the only money she had in
the house —a fiver.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Mig”: Ten-year-old, reading his six-
teenth volume of the exploits of Air Ace,
War Hero, Master Spy, Intrepid Adven-
turer and Dauntless Detective Biggies,
defended his favorite author: “Captain
Johns writes very good literature. He
almost never uses ‘said’ or ‘went.’ ” A
random reading revealed: “countered,
reiterated, retorted, rasped, opined,” and
“proceeded, made his way, made its
approach,” etc.
£« ♦!«
“Kenyas”: A devoted church-worker
and staunch teetotalitarian wanted to
make a birthday-cake to send to her son,
a missionary in Darkest Africa. “It’s no
good sending it all that way,” her
housewife-neighbors told her, “unless you
put rum in it.” Looking carefully to right
and to left to make sure none of the
faithful were about, she plunged into a
suburban bar and asked for the rum. “I
want it for a cake,” she added. Quoth
the bar-lady, as scornfully she turned to
oblige: “They all tell me the same old
story, sister.”
THE SAD AND THE GLAD
“An English physician, writing in the ‘Lancet,’
criticises those doctors who adopt a gloomy
bedside-manner, or who go to the other extreme
and try to be funny, too often in bad taste.”
When, entering the patient’s room,
You’re faced with choice of fun or gloom,
Make certain which
Will best enrich
Not his, but your enjoyment.
It’s better than the biggest pill
To mention, laughingly, your bill;
For jokes are all part of the skill
Bound up in your employment.
If you’ve a patient who’s been fed
For weeks on goo, and to his bed
You’re summoned, please
Don't try to tease
The fellow by reciting
The virtues of the juicy steak
You had for lunch ; the cream sponge-
cake
Washed-down with beer —another ache
In him you’ll be inviting 1
He might like pockets in his shroud
{A notion that could be allowed),
Yet is it quite
The thing, to cite
Opinions on the matter ?
And if he’s wide and six-feet-four,
Is it the shot to take the floor
On how they’ll get him through the door,
As part of bedside-natter ?
When patient’s white about the gills,
Don’t joke too much on making wills,
Or say to shave
Is waste, for grave-
Wards he’s about to totter;
And if the day’s hot, please eschew
The urge to seize the humorous cue
By saying the place he’s going to
Will be a damn’ sight hotter!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


A Rachel pfenning postscript
TO those who find TV a present-day domestic distraction
rather than an entertainment, and Sputnik, the Russian
earth-satellite, technologically disturbing, escape into the
quieter (and conceivably happier) living of the past will be
found in these extracts from the social diary of a young medical
man of the mid-nineteenth century.
His diary was made available by his daughter in England
following publication of The Letters of Rachel Henning in
Australia. The contact with his daughter, like so many other
contacts made since publication of the book, was largely
by chance.
The extracts are from the diary, in 1854 and 1855, of Dr.
John Mills, later of the Bombay Army Medical Service. He tells
of the events that happened on his visits to his friend John Lester
(afterwards General Lester) while John Lester was staying at the
Pinchards’ home at Taunton, in Somerset.
The notes and comments of John Mills throw further light
on the life and times of Rachel Henning and her relatives the
Biddulphs and the Pinchards, and those who have read The
Letters of Rachel Henning will find these further gossipy notes a
charming sidelight.
The diary opens on February 1, 1854. Biddulph Henning
and Annie Henning had left for Australia on August 11 of the
previous year. Rachel’s first letter to her brother and sister, in
the book, was dated August 12, 1853, and the second letter in the
book, dated January 30 and February 2, 1854, coincides with the
first part of John Mills’s diary.
The extracts from this diary nearly all have to do with
the people at The Mount, the home of the Pinchards, in Taunton,
Somerset.
On pages 10 and 11 of The Letters of Rachel Henning,
Rachel, in the letter to Annie and Biddulph Henning in Australia,
quotes from another letter written to her by Aunt Pinchard
(uncles, aunts and male friends are usually described by their
surnames in this company), which mentions John Lester on the
occasion of the visit described in John Mills’s diary; Rose
Biddulph is mentioned as accompanying John Lester’s flute (pre-
sumably on the piano) and “wants a little help.”
Aunt Pinchard, in her letter to Rachel Henning, mentions the
courtship of Rachel Biddulph and Mr. Shiel, or Sheil (spelt
“Shields” in the book —Rachel Henning’s spelling was sometimes
difficult to decipher), as being “the most fierce, and throws all
others in the shade. I suppose it is their youth ; they have neither
eyes nor ears for anyone else.”
John Mills simply says “They are much more spoony than
Lester and his fiancee.”
It will be seen that in his diary-entry for April 10, 1854, John
Mills refers to meeting Rachel Henning while she was en route
to Exeter from Danehill, in Sussex. In her Letters, Rachel writes
to Annie and Biddulph Henning on April 22, from Exeter.
' Then on July 31 John Mills mentioned that he, John Lester
and Edwin Arnold went to Taunton station to see Rachel and
Annie Henning off prior to their sailing (in August) on the
Calcutta for Australia, accompanied by Tregenna Biddulph.
There is a good deal about Tregenna’s romance with Bella
Badcock in the diary.
Tregenna returned to England and married Bella on June
11; 1857. Rachel Henning describes the wedding in her Letters
(pages 24 and 25); this letter was written from The Mount,
Taunton, and Rachel Biddulph, who married Mr. Sheil, is again
mentioned there.
Tregenna came out to Australia again with Bella, and they
settled at Eeree, on the Shoalhaven (N.S.W.), where they raised
a large family. The diaries of Tregenna Biddulph, covering many
years, are in the possession of an Australian descendant. — D.A.
John Mills’s Diary
February 1, 1854. —By the
express to Taunton to pay a
promised visit to [John] Lester.
At 1.27 punctually got to Taun-
ton, where I found Lester wait-
ing for me. Went with him to
his uncle’s house, where in due
course I was introduced to his
various relations —Mr. and
Mrs. Pinchard (his uncle and
aunt), their two sons, Biddulph
and Theophilus Pinchard, and
three nieces of Mrs. P.’s (Miss
Biddulphs), to the youngest of
whom, Rose, my friend John
Lester is engaged.
After having some lunch,
went out with Lester to make
arrangements for horses for a
ride tomorrow—then went to
the Institution, where they
have a very fine collection of
fossils.
After dinner had music and
chess. They are all musical,
and some glees and catches
were very well sung. They
seem a clever and highly
educated family. Lester and
his brother and the Miss Bid-
dulphs have all been educated
from quite an early age by
their uncle and aunt. Mr.
Pinchard is an attorney.
Almost all the party draw very
tolerably—besides which they
have reading evenings—Shak-
speare—each taking parts, etc.
I played two games at chess
with Mrs. P. and won both.
February 2. —After breakfast
went out with John Lester.
Had a game at billiards. It
rather threatened for rain, but
cleared up into a beautiful day.
After lunch Miss Rose
Biddulph, Lester and I went
out riding in the direction of
Pitminster. Just beyond Trull
met Rev. Mr. and Miss Ellen
Hall, who are living in the
Shakespears’ old house. The
latter, a pretty little girl of 15
or 16, joined us in our ride.
Leaving Pounsford Park and
Pitminster on our right we went
round them, over the hills,
came down by Blagdon. Lester
took Miss Hall home while
Miss Biddulph and I rode
slowly on. He soon overtook
us and we got home' about a
quarter before five, after a very
delightful ride.
A fog, with every appearance
and feeling of frost in the even-
ing. We had some La Grace
sticks made, that I might teach
them the game. After tea,
there was a sketching-club—in
addition to the family-party,
two young men, Mr. Pullen and
Mr. Alford, joined the circle.
The only non-combatants
were Mrs. Pinchard-and Miss
Kate Biddulph, the eldest. The
subject for the evening was “A
Mountain Stream,” and some
of the productions, particularly
Mr. Pinchard’s, were very good.
After that we had a little music.
They are early folks —always
going to bed at half-past-10 or
very soon after. I like them
very much as far as I have
seen—in addition to their
accomplishments, they seem to
be very practical people.
February 3. —A very thick
white frost, and cold. After
breakfast tried the La Grace
sticks. Mr. Pullen had a very
good idea of the game ; to the
others it is almost new, at least
played in our fashion.
I took my first lesson in
quoits, and tho’ very awkward
at first, I liked it much and
think that before long I should
(Continued on page 55)


POLITICAL POINTS
Going over the heads of the Govern-
ments concerned, Khrushchev wrote to the
Labor parties in Britain and six West
European countries on the Syrian situa-
tion. This is striking new ground in
diplomacy ; Molotov’s famous message to
the Doc. wasn’t sent until Bert had first
wired him.
• •
Sydney “Herald” seems to feel that the
Doc. let it down over St. Mary’s. Its
Canberra correspondent referred to “his
disgracefully sketchy reply to the Prime
Minister” which revealed that he had
“neglected his duty.”
• •
Tom Burke, former Labor M.H.R.
for Perth, said last week that he would
not seek A.L.P. endorsement next elec-
tion. His action was a protest against
the party’s treatment of the member for
Kalgoorlie, H. V. Johnson, for his
criticism of Dr. Evatt. Commenting that
some Labor people thought Johnson had
committed the “unforgivable sin” by
making a statement to the press, Burke
recalled that “this whole tragic squabble”
was begun by a press statement by Evatt
in which he described some of his
col'eagues in the Parliamentary Labor
party as “paid informers for the press.”
• •
With the completion of the 72-mile
transmission-line from the new Hume
Weir power-station to Wagga, via Albury,
Hume Weir power was fed into the main
N. S. Wales electrictity system for the
first time. This also meant the first linking
of the Vic. and N. S. Wales power-
networks.
• •
Co-operative building-societies are to
be encouraged in Queensland as a result
of negotiations between Treasurer Hiley
and the trading-banks. The Government
will guarantee home-building loans up
to million in the current financial
year. Maximum loans to individual
borrowers will be £2750 on the basis of
20 per cent, security (including land);
£3500 on 30 per cent, and (for the
purpose of converting houses into flats)
£5OOO on 40 per cent, security. The
plan covers 10 existing societies, but it is
hoped the move will stimulate the
formation of many more.
• •
Netherlands Minister for Affairs
Overseas, Mr. Helders, is visiting Aus-
tralian New Guinea at the conclusion of
his tour of Dutch New Guinea (B.
16/10/’57). He is due to arrive at Lae
from Hollandia on November 5, and
will leave Port Moresby for Sydney on
November 8.
• . •
Sputnik has set Abe Landa thinking
again of his own satellite —the proposed
town near Minto for which he has frozen
a large area of first-class dairy-land.
Cabinet doesn’t seem to want it and the
Housing Commission’s function is to build
houses where they’re needed, but if the
scheme is dropped all the data Abe
collected about English satellite towns
will be wasted. Estimated cost of
project? £5O million.
• •
Militants in Melbourne are moving for
a full-time Federal secretary for the
A.L.P. —J. M. Schmella, Queensland
A.L.P. secretary, acts at present —and
more representation for the Eastern
States at Federal conferences at the
expense of the smaller States. The Left-
wingers got away with it at the A.C.T.U.
congress. Why shouldn’t Bert?
• •
By deciding not to go on with the
bread-reform bill which the Country and
Labor parties had mutilated, the
Victorian Liberals have scored a tactical
opening victory for the next elections.
Bolte’s refusal to accept the amended
bill means that it will still be an issue
when housewives vote for the Assembly
and Council in May and June next year.
- • •
“Tidak Makan”: Apparently the
people of Bathurst (N.S.W.) did not con-
form to the Labor pattern on Six-Hour
Day. It seems That a committee worked
“hard and arduously” to organise the
Bathurst Labor Day Sports, but only a
small crowd attended. Thundered N.S.W.
Chief Secretary Kelly, “This shows it is
dubious whether the people of Bathurst
deserve a holiday.” If Labor ever gets all
the controls it wants over the individual
this problem won’t arise. After a roll-
call, all union-tickets (compulsory) will
be withdrawn from absentees and they
will be out of work until they plead for-
giveness and promise to toe the line in
future. I hope it doesn’t go as far as it
did in a prison camp where the Japs, to
our amazement, turned on a sports-day
for us. Attendance was compulsory, but
the highlight was the sight of two Diggers,
who appeared to be engrossed in a dis-
cussion about happier days on the Flat
at Randwick, being pounced upon and
bashed, by two guards for “not laughing
and enjoying themselves.”
• •
Nobel Peace Prize for 1957 has been
awarded to former Canadian External
Affairs Minister Lester Pearson, who
modestly says it is a tribute to Canada’s
peace efforts since World War 11. As
things go to the choice is probably as
good as any other, but it might be a
better idea to award the prize each year
to Khrushchev and Foster Dulles jointly,
with the proviso that if war breaks out
they’ll have to forfeit their medals.
• •
Queensland State coalmines at Collins-
ville, Ogmore and Mt. Mulligan lost
£117',702 in the year ended June 30 ;
Bowen cokeworks lost £22,208, the Irvine-
bank ore-treatment works £13,251 and the
Cairncross dock £25,528. These are small
figures in comparison with the roaring
days of State enterprise when State cattle-
stations, meatshops and fisheries were
pouring it down the sink in fine style.
The Queensland railways are still keeping
up the old tradition ; they went a further
£4,351,433 into the red last year.
One Queensland State enterprise still
manages to show a profit—the Golden
Casket paid a dividend of £1,532,960.
• •
South Australia is to apply for a writ
restraining the Commonwealth from
proceeding with the work of diverting
the Tooma River ; it will also, Playford
told his Parliament last week, ask the
High Court for a declaration of what
constitutes River Murray waters so far
as the diversion of waters from the Snowy
project into the Murray is concerned.
Playford’s case is that his State’s rights
under the original Murray Waters
Agreement are prejudiced by the diver-
sion of the Tooma, which, in effect, will
change its status from that of tributary
of the Murray to tributary of the
Murrumbidgee.
• •
Co-operation between the P.M.G.’s
department and the Weather Bureau is to
give Melbourne (and, later, other capitals)
an automatic telephone weather-forecast
service. Dial R for rain?
• •
Australia’s mining production in 1956
reached a record value of £2l4j million
(exclusive of uranium), compared with
£2OO million in 1955. Lead and zinc
contributed £5B million and coal £57.
million.
• •
J. A. J. Hunter writes: —-
I feel in regard to the statement (B. 9/10/’57)
that “the Nicklin Government’s strength was
increased to 42 as a result of the Gregory by-
election,” that a little more detail mightn’t hurt.
In this almost wholly A.W.U. electorate
(once part of my old Maranoa) the A.L.P.
candidate defeated the C.P. man by over 1300
in 1956.
At the by-election the majority, of course,
disappeared and was divided between the Q.L.P.
800, and the C.P. 500. The C.P. share added
to last year’s figures gave Rae (C.P.) a
majority of 600-odd over Duggan (A.L.P.).
Duggan’s total was less than half of last year’s
A.L.P. vote. This is a unique but most effec-
tive way of “whipping their joss” by the trade-
union sufferers from the late shearers’ strike.
In the Queensland Assembly there are now
four parties, not three. The C.P. is the largest
with 24, then the Libs, with 18, the A.L.P. 20,
the Q.L.P. 11 and Independents 2. “The
Country Party-Liberal Government” (official
name—due to Richter, M.L.A.) is thus a two-
party Government the same as the Bruce-Page,
the Lyons-Page and Menzies-Fadden in the
Federal Parliament and the Stevens-Bruxner in
N. S. Wales.


If the St. Mary’s debate achieved noth-
ing else it should be memorable as the
only occasion on record on which Eddie
Ward had a kind word to say for a
general.
• •
Last week a Sydney “Daily Mirror’*
scare-poster had us right on the brink:
“War At Any Moment!” Next day a
juror slipped a wink to a witness in court
and the resultant “sensation” saved us
from World War 111.
• •
With a price-index variation for the
September quarter so slight that it
warrants no change in the basic wage in
N. S. Wales, Victoria, Queensland and
Westralia, it seems that stability in living-
costs is at last within our grasp. In
N. S. Wales the net change this year is
nil —a 2s. fall in May was balanced by
a 2s. rise in August.
• •
South Australia recorded the only
increase—equivalent to 2s. in terms of
the frozen basic-wage. In Tasmania there
was a decrease.
• •
Only last week the A.L.P. in Hobart
decided to press Cosgrove once again for
a restoration of quarterly adjustments. On
the latest figures for Tasmania this would
mean a drop of 35., so the decision is
likely to be shelved.
• • »
N. S. Wales Opposition-leader Morton,
speaking on the Loan Estimates, advo-
cated the use of private capital for the
construction and running of power-houses
and similar public utilities. His plan
envisaged the grant of long-term
franchises or charters for a predetermined
period. This scheme, he maintained,
would release more loan-money for such
purposes as the construction of schools
and hospitals. Since 1951 about £9O
million had been spent on new power-
stations in N. S. Wales. He asked the
House to consider what could have been
done with that money in the field of
education and health.
Morton also accused the Cahill Gov-
ernment of planning its public-works
programme with “political advantage in
mind.” It had spent £24 million on seven
dams in various parts of the State, but so
far they had not conserved one drop of
water. Current estimates showed that a
further £35 million would have to be
spent to finish these jobs.
Most of the dams were situated in
marginal electorates, and the projects
had been started with great splurges of
publicity on the eve of elections.
• •
Calwell thinks he has found a winning
issue for the Federal election, expected in
December, 1958. He told a Melbourne
meeting that “the bells of St. Mary’s will
' be kept ringing from now on and right
through the next Federal-election cam-
paign.” Arthur has always been an
optimist on the matter of elections, but
it’ll take more than a theme-song to put
Labor back in office next year.
• •
Prime Minister Macmillan stated the
purpose of his visit to Eisenhower to be
“to discuss world problems which are
active concern to both of us,” and Lon-
don observers suggested the problems
would include the Turkey-Syria situation,
the Russian satellite and closer co-opera-
tion in nuclear-research. The first two
items would seem certain to be discussed,
but as Britain’s Foreign Secretary Selwyn
Lloyd is already in America it seems
hardly likely that they would be the real
reason for the meeting of the two leaders.
Much more likely is the suggestion that
co-operation in nuclear-research will be
discussed. Britain has always been ready
for this: America has held aloof. But
at the White House banquet to the
Queen, the President, after saying that
the free world’s assets were much greater
than those of “our potential enemy,”
said:
It is ridiculous to compare their brains,
their abilities in science, in philosophical
thought, or in any phase of culture or of the
arts with the combined total of the free
world.
He added, “I say ‘combined total’
advisedly... .Our scientists must work
together.”
• •
Among resolutions passed at the N. S.
Wales convention of the Liberal party was
one asking the Federal Government to
abolish the payroll-tax and another seek-
ing an independent inquiry into Com-
monwealth, State aqd local-government
expenditure.
• •
At least one Labor man in the Hunter
electorate doesn’t see why Evatt should
be handed the seat oil a platter. He’s
C. T. Wheatley, vice-president of the
Newcastle branch of the Ironworkers’
Federation, who says he feels that a local
man should represent Hunter because he
can give more time to local problems
than a party-leader can. He intends to
contest the preselection ballot.
• •
Victorian newspapers have sensibly
accepted the State Government’s bill to
prohibit the publication of the names and
addresses of women and youths under 16
years who are the victims of sex offences
unless the court orders otherwise —in
some circumstances the publication of
facts or photographs may assist the police
or court investigation. The prohibition
extends to newspapers printed outside,
but circulating in, Victoria, and to TV, the
first Victorian legislation to deal with
TV.
• •
Canberra can’t be taking this chit-chat
about the growth of the public service
too seriously. Latest recommendation by
the Parliamentary public-works commit-
tee is the demolition of Melbourne’s fine
old colonial Customs House to make way
for a modern block to house more and
more deputy-deputies. And already the
new £ 1.5-million skyscraper for Federal
offices at the Spring-, Lonsdale- and
Exhibition-streets block is reaching
upward.
• •
Have any of the rank-and-file Liberals
in Canberra asked the Government to
stop all recruiting for the public service
for two years, to compel by natural
wastage some long-overdue reduction in
the size of departments? Has the Govern-
ment taken any notice of the Lib.
Federal executive’s standing recommen-
dation for a Hoover-type probe into the
service? Are public servants alarmed in
the least by public unrest about the growth
of Government employment?
ANOTHER MUNmONS-FILLING OPERATION


PERSONAL ITEMS
Heathcote Howard Hammer, who
takes-over as G.0.C., Third Division,
joined the old Militia in 1926, and
had the 2/48th Bn. at El Alamein,
where he was wounded and won the
D.S.O. —at the conference of commanders
before the battle Montgomery said the
2/48th’s position, on the right flank, was
the most vital in the Bth Army. Command-
ing 15th Infantry Brigade in New Guinea,
he collected a bar to his D. 5.0.,
C.8.E., and a “mention.”
• •
Two memories of Will Lawson (“Will”
to his readers, but “Bill” to his friends),
who died in Sydney last week at 81:
Les Such: An explosive character, but one
with an 18-carat heart, Bill was born at New-
castle-on-Tyne, went to New Zealand when he
was four, was educated at Brisbane, and began
contributing verse to The Bulletin while clerk-
ing in Wellington (N.Z.) nearly 60 years ago.
He wrote 26 books and loads of verse, mainly
WILL LAWSON
ballads, and he was just about the end of an
era —definitely the last of the balladists.
He had been shipping reporter on newspapers
at times —first with the old “Evening News,” in
Sydney, and last in Newcastle in 1941 —and he
had travelled the world as the guest of shipping-
lines. He had a knack of getting close to the
men who worked in ships, from the bridge to
the stokehole. But he had the same feeling for
the crews of locomotives and Murray River
steamers. Ships, trains, Cobb and Co.’s
coaches, whalers, pirates, bushrangers—he wrote
about them all, and enjoyed them all. He was
a great friend of the late Bertha Lawson and
of Percy Lindsay.
“Jachris”: Peter Pan he was known as right
up until the last few months before his death,
for Bill Lawson until then seemed not to
age, never to grow up. He was the eternal
boy, still with a boyish delight in the railways
and railway-engines, ships and horse-drawtt
coaches of which he wrote so well.
He was outside such rivalry as to who was
really the older as existed between those others
we remember gladly, sadly—the lovable Percy
Lindsay, the sometimes irascible J. H. M.
Abbott. For Bill Lawson age did not matter.
He did not recognise it, realise it. Yet he was
of a type with those other two ; in many ways
a blend of both. There was always a boyish
smile ; and always, half-hidden behind it, a
light-triggered readiness to anger.
There was a Friday—contributor’s day—in
the good days long gone when the pubs opened
at 6 in the morning. The previous two Fridays
Bill’s short-stories had been unfortunately
rejected as not being up to his standard.
At five-past-nine word came down the
corridor with a poet, “Will Lawson's down at
the First and Last. He's going to come up here
and punch you on the nose.”
At 10 a.m. a story-writer brought it, slightly
more detailed: “Will Lawson’s down at
Plasto’s. He’s mad at you. He’s going to come
up here and punch you on the nose.”
At half-past-eleven an artist had it sharp as a
gag for a joke-block! “Bill Lawson’s at the
Fortune of War. He's going to punch your
nose.”
So the reports came ahead of him up George
Street —from the Port Jackson, the Newcastle,
Snudden’s.
At half-past-three, in the mirror behind Bate-
man’s bar, we saw Bill coming in through the
double-doors. There was a slight opening-up
of the group, a making of room. Bill’s smile
was as boyish as ever. “Hullo, Jack,” he said
as he came across. “Could you lend me five-
bob? 1 haven’t got that yarn altered right yet.”
• •
It is rare for the chairman of a great
public company to take time off at the
annual meeting to say a kind word about
any other than generalised customers or
staff, but at the Olympic Co. meeting in
Melbourne Charles Butt praised the judg-
ment and leadership of his offsider, Ian
F. Beaurepaire, son of the founder, Sir
Frank Beaurepaire. Chairman Butt pro-
phesied that vice-chairman Beaurepaire
would become a prominent personality
among the nation’s industrialists. Apart
from some years with the.R A.A.F. dur-
ing the war, Ian Beaurepaire, who is
rising 35, has been around Olympic all
his working life, quite a bit of it as
laborer, greaser, and mechanic ; but for
the last few years he has had a job in
which he could keep his hands clean.
• •
“Virgo”: Two generations of radio-
listeners in Australia, New Zealand,
South Africa and elsewhere have laughed
at the antics of Rex Da we, Jack Craig-
Gardiner, Ralph Peterson, and Jim
Williams —better known, perhaps, as Dr.
Pym (schoolmaster), Greenbottle, Bot-
tomley, and Stanforth. Twenty years
ago we listened to the Fourth Form of
St. Percy. Today, we hear a rebroadcast
of the same jokes under the title of “Yes,
What.” Boys and girls laugh just as
heartily as their mothers and fathers did,
which goes to demonstrate that people
don’t change very much, after all. Today
Greenbottle is manager of a theatre at
Maryborough (Q.), Dr. Pym is in Eng-
land, Bottomley is directing films for TV
in Sydney, and Stanforth is working for
his father in Adelaide.
JIM McLELLAN, managing-director
since 1952 of Intercolonial Boring Co.,
Ltd. (the merchants, engineers and
contractors with h.q. in Brisbane),
is following the footsteps of his
father, John McLellan, who was with
I.B.C. for over 50 years, the last 25 as
chairman and managing-director. Served
in the Middle East, New Guinea and
Borneo as an original member of the
2/25th Bn., is 38, plays golf on a long
mark at Brisbane Golf Club, and spends
spare time on 35mm. photography.
“Uramao”: Waiting to extend the hand
of welcome to Sir Hubert Wilkins on his
disembarking at Harewood, Christchurch
(N.Z.), from an American airliner, Val
Rendle, of that city. The pair started in
the England-to-Australia air-race in 1919,
in a Blackburn Kangaroo, but engine-
trouble forced them down in Cyprus.
Sir Hubert, now 68, and on his way to
the Antarctic, looks very fit.
• •
“5 G.R.”: Passed on at Portland (Vic.),
Sid Patterson, 0.8. E.; M.C. He won the
Military Cross in France with the 29th
Bn. His left arm shattered and bleeding
profusely, he awoke to find five Germans
guarding him, but admiring the shellfire.
He shot the lot and escaped. He had not
been disarmed. In War II Patterson com-
manded docks-operating companies. In
private life he was a professional fisher-
man at Portland, and mayor many times.
His scheme of harbor development, cost-
ing millions, seemed sound from the
beginning.
• •
“Peter Simple”: After well over 30
years’ experience on daily newspapers
and radio services on the mainland,
Warren Denning, well-known journalist
and author, has settled .down in Hobart
as Tasmanian, news-editor of the A.B.C.
In a letter to a Sydney friend Denning
said he was enjoying the relatively quiet
life after the rush and bustle of Sydney,
where, as chief sub-editor of the A.B.C.
for the past five or six years, he had to
get the three main evening-news bulletins
on the air five days a week. “Becoming
Hobartised” is the term used by Tas-
manians to describe the “settling-in”
process of arrivals from the mainland.
I first met Denning in 1939, shortly
before he was appointed Canberra repre-
sentative of the A.8.C., and soon learned


to admire the energetic and objective way
in which he went about the task of
supplying a news-cover of the Federal
scene, seven days a week. The outbreak
of war added greatly to his work and res-
ponsibilities, but he had the satisfaction
of giving first break of many big stories
through the national network. Soon
after the war he was appointed A.B.C.
news-editor in Queensland, and left there
to take on the even more strenuous task
of chief sub-editor in Sydney. During the
past 10 years Denning has 1 been a
frequent contributor to The Bulletin,
and has also published three books,
Caucus Crisis, Capital City, and Inside
Parliament.
Recently I had the privilege of reading
the drafts of two MSS. on which he
has been working, Australian Prime
Ministers, giving vivid pen-pictures of
the occupants of that high post from
Federation to the present day, and the
story of Australian development from
the earliest days, specially dedicated to
the children of Great Britain, whom
Denning found to be hungry for infor-
mation about the Commonwealth during
his visit to the old country a few years
back.
• •
Fareed S. Jafri, press-attache to the
Pakistan High Commissioner, is an inter-
esting person who, in his family and per-
sonal background, seems to sum-up
certain striking features of the con-
temporary scene in Pakistan and,
perhaps, in other countries as well. He is
an ex-newspaperman and graduate of the
London School of Economics, yet belongs
to an ancient family which held feudal
power in India under the Moguls and
before them, coming, probably, from
Arabia. His grandfather was a great
figure in Oriental studies ; his father rose
high in the old Government of India
civil service ; and he himself knew Nehru
in Allahabad, where the Jafri family were
FA REED S. JAFRI
leaders in the Moslem community, as the
Nehru family were in the Hindu com-
munity ; finally, he was a refugee follow-
ing the partition. Now 42, he has had
considerable newspaper experience, in
London and elsewhere —he was here,
representing a group of papers, in 1951 —-
and since joining the diplomatic service
in 1955 has seen something of history in
the making in the Middle East. He
smilingly describes his children as “a
tribe”—he has six children —and the
eldest girl recently started work on a
Sydney daily as a cadet. A keen cricketer,
he hopes to revive matches with the
Journalists’ Club, and to take up golf and
bowls. For the rest, a modest, hospitable
chap, and a brilliant conversationalist.
• •
Arrived in Sydney per F 1 o 11 a
Lauro ship Roma last Friday, A. H. J.
Lovink, new Netherlands Ambassador
to Australia. Now senior Ambassador
in the Dutch diplomatic service,
he was born in The Hague in 1902,
studied at the School of Economics,
Rotterdam, the Ruprecht Karl University,
Heidelberg, and the University of
Mukden (Chinese and other Eastern
languages), and then went into the Inter-
national Marine Customs Service in
China. In 1929 he was attached to the
Bureau for East Asiatic Affairs of the
former Netherlands Indies Government
at Djakarta, became head of the Bureau
in 1935, and left in one of the last planes
from Bandoeng in 1942, crash-landing in
W.A. From Australia he went to London
and became Secretary-General of the
Ministry of General Welfare of the
Netherlands Government in exile, was
appointed Minister to China in 1943,
Ambassador to Moscow in 1947, and
Secretary-General of the Ministry for
Foreign Affairs in 1948. The following
year he went to Djakarta, was High
Representative of the Crown until the
transfer of sovereignty in December,
1949, and from 1950 until his present
appointment had been Ambassador to
Canada.
• •
“Bicky”: In addition to Jon Cleary’s
The Sundowners (B. 25/9/’57), two other
pieces of Australian writing are listed for
filming in Australia in the near future.
Ray Lawler's “The Summer of the
Seventeenth Doll” —a three-million-dollar
production —will be made in Melbourne
by the Hecht-Hill-Lancaster company in
early 1959, and Nevil Shute’s story of
the aftermath of atomic wars On the
Beach will also go before the cameras in
the Victorian capital, with ace Hollywood
producer-director Stanley Kramer in
charge of operations.
• •
Honor amongst Australian amateur
radio “hams” to be the first to hear the
Russian satellite went to Frederick
George Bail, president of the Victorian
Division of the Wireless Institute of
Australia. Immediately Moscow radio
had announced that the satellite was
circling the world, Bail was listening for
its signal, first on 40,010 kilocycles, and
later on 20,005 kilocycles. Within half-
an-hour he heard the station on the
former frequency. He then contacted all
his colleagues around Melbourne and
inter-State through his own station,
VK3YS.
• • >
John Feely, drawn here by Dick Oven-
den, is celebrating this year his majority
as assistant chief at Melbourne Public
Library, but the literary hierarchy have
JOHN FEELY
known him since 1920, when his first
freelance articles appeared. The Feelys
followed the McMillans, opening-up
Gippsland, but John was bom in Mel-
bourne and was attached to the Observa-
tory staff from 1921 to 1936, when he
went into the Public Library. His uncle,
John E. Flynn, was a Bulletin artist at
the turn of the century, when readers
found particular relish in gobbling up his
cannibal jokes.
• •
Turned the bow of his ship homeward
for the last time, Sir David Aitchison,
one of the best-known Shaw Savill
skippers on the Australian run. He’s
captained Southern Cross on its last 11
voyages to Australia and now, at 65, he
is going to call it a day. A fine conver-
sationalist, he is remembered by hundreds
of Australians who have been on his ship.
Captain of Gothic during the Royal tour
of Australia in 1954, Sir David was
knighted by the Queen when disembark-
ing at Aden on her way home to England.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 84, J. H. William, one of
Australia's outstanding riflemen for many
years. He represented Australia at Bisley in
1910.
In Melbourne, at 86, Robert Ewing, Com-
monwealth Commissioner of Taxes (1916-39).
He was closely associated with the first
Federal Tax Commissioner, G. A. McKay, when
Federal income-tax was introduced in World
War I.


ABORIGINALITIES
T\OUG JACKSON, bosun of the inter-
State freighter Coramba, has a pet
galah on board. On a recent voyage, as
the ship was approaching Newcastle
(N.S.W.), somebody called to Doug while
he was feeding the bird. As he turned
from its cage it escaped through the open
door, took refuge on the span of a mast,
and refused to be coaxed back to the
after-deck. Still up the mast next morn-
ing, it took-off and made for the city.
But about an hour before the Coramba
was due to sail, late that afternoon, the
galah—doubtless having sighted the Blue
Peter sailing-signal from a distance —
rejoined its ship.—“J.T.”
"One good thing about Percy—he has the perfect bedside manner.”
“Fao”: A policeman friend who spent
30 years in western Queensland told me
of a con.-man who, posing as a drover,
had passed several “rubber” cheques in
a small western town. Eventually nabbed,
he was being taken by train under police
escort to Townsville. As they stopped at
the siding where his sheep were reputed
to be, the escort grinned and said: “Isn’t
this the place where you had all those
sheep?” The con.-man surveyed the
landscape, which the long drought had
rendered bare as a board. “Yeah,” he
said; “hungry lot of b s, weren’t
they?”
* * * *
“Bird”: I read of an international food-
show in New York where, among the
chocolate-coated and fried ants from
Japan, the eels, octopus, rattlesnake-meat,
etc., Australia was represented by good old
kangaroo-tail soup that only a handful of
Australians have had, and several kinds
of honey—maybe even that rare kind that
hasn’t any golden syrup in it.
* * * *
“Q. Ree”: Fiji has an annual Hibiscus
Festival at the end of which a Miss
Hibiscus is chosen from a number of
entrants representing all races and spon-
sored by different groups. This year a
Fijian girl, Filimaina Koto, won the title
from 34 other entrants, and a trip to
Honolulu among other prizes. Suva
streets outside the Grand Pacific Hotel
(where the Miss Hibiscus Ball, at which
the winner was announced, was held)
were packed with people, mostly Fijians,
and when a lovely Fijian girl came out
wearing the crown, they went wild.
“Aymo”: Old-time battlers around the
mulga, who were unable to run to the
luxury of socks, swathed their feet in
strips of cloth, of cotton or some other
material. These were called “Prince
Alberts.” Now, I have heard of a watch-
chain, a tail-coat and public-halls in Lon-
don and Canberra called after Queen
Victoria’s consort, but I find it hard to
believe H.R.H. ever wrapped his royal
feet in bandages as a substitute for socks.
What, then, is the connection?
* * * *
“Rimutuka”: She asked the local hard-
ware man: “What's this Number-four
Fish? Is that for fertilising fish?”—she
was dead serious. Eventually getting
control of his face he replied that it was
“just a garden fertiliser.” “But mightn’t
it bring all the cats round?” was her next
question. This time control was weaker.
“No, madam. It just makes the plants
grow.” She persisted: “Yes, but if it’s
called ‘fish’ it must smell of fish, and I
don’t want the cats scratching up the
garden—they love fish.” It’s why shop-
men look like that.
**■ * •
“Splodger”: Let’s get this right about
Jack Howe’s blade-shearing record tally
of 321 made at Alice Downs. Too often
it is credited with having been done in
an eight-hour day. Now, a working-week
in sheds in those days was 48 hours, made
up of five days, each of eight hours 40
minutes, and Saturday, four hours 40
minutes, up till lunch. The full day was
cut up into separate runs: two hours
before breakfast, two runs each of lhr.
20min. before lunch, and three of the same
period after, the lot totalling 48 hours.
It is plain, then, that Howe used up eight
hours 40 minutes to set his record. Both
Fred Pont, who was picking-up for Howe
at the time, and Billy Martin, his pen-mate
in that shed, told me he worked the Bhr.
40min. day.
* * * *
“Bass”: A bale of rubber, part of a
cargo lost during the war, has turned up
on a W.A. beach with a couple of sword-
fish swords embedded in it, and it has
been assumed that two fish attacked it
and came off second-best. It’s a popular
idea that swordfish use their elongated
rostrums to attack prey or in defence, but
that’s almost certainly wrong. These are
fast fish, and when they collide with some-
thing the sword penetrates, sometimes a
matter of feet. That could kill another
fish, and probably often does, but the
sword wasn’t evolved for that purpose.
It’s basically a stabiliser and takes the
place of certain absent fins.
*-* * *
“Paddy Doyle”: Congrats, to “Findy” -
(B. 25/9/’57) on dragging his camel
50yds. with one good foot. Sounds as if
he were riding ’em from Birdsville to
Haddon Corner, where toolsheds are
posted at 50yd. breaks for such an
emergency. We never got beyond the old
idea of carrying- our pickhandles on a
pack-camel, and near the top of the load.
Willing dongers were ready to operate at
a yell’s notice.
* * * *
''T'HE abo. “sleeping it off with his belly
A packed in clay” (“Yellow Five,” B.
3/4/’57) reminded me of a remarkable
example of native “surgery” on the Ather-
ton Tableland (N.Q.). Jimmy No-nose
was a well-known figure and a valued
worker around Millaa Millaa, in spite of
the fact that he looked like something out
of a Boris Karloff shocker. As a young
man, he’d received a kick from a shot-
gun full in the face, and almost every
bone from the eyes down was shattered.
His fellow abos. packed his face in a
mask of clay, with a hollow reed inserted
into the mouth. For weeks he lay inert,
fed on wild-honey through the reed.
When the cure was complete, and the




clay removed, all that was left of his
face was a smooth, convex surface,
almost unscarred, and utterly featureless,
except for the eyes and a small round
hole where the mouth should have been.
He lived to be an old man, suffering his
most apparent inconvenience when smok-
ing his pipe—that was an eerie perform-
ance to watch! —“Banana.”
# * * *
“Emel”: Trapped near Quantong
(Vic.), a tusked rabbit, something new to
trappers of 40 years’ experience. The old-
timer’s bottom teeth had grown through
its lower lip and, curled up at the ends,
protruded for over an inch.
* * * *
“Pigskin Bagman”: My Baglady and I,
having covered more of Australia on two
wheels than most people (of this or any
period), demand with one voice would
“Splodger” (B. 18/9/’57) ask any horse
to “britch” a load down, say, the
Kuranda-Cairns road (Q.), or down
N.S.W.’s Galston Gorge, Victoria Pass, or
the drop into Sofala? Having been up
and down ’em all, and hundreds more
stiff pulls and pinches, we first instal
efficient brakes to any vehicle we buy —
be it sulky, springcart or dray. The old
“Can I knock-off now, boss? I've cleaned everything up and put
the cats out for the night.”
draydriver’s habit of snigging a hefty log
behind down a pinch is good, but apt to
be unpopular with road-authorities. As
for the frequent load-free spells necessary
on a long climb, it’s either efficient brakes
or the leaving of a couple of gibbers in
the roadway, a stunt over which we have
expended curses without number on
unknown drivers (mainly motor). Never
heard of brakes “breaking a horse’s
back,” but “Splodger’s” idea would cer-
tainly break the legs, or the heart, of any
carthorse alive.
THERE must be some red faces
over Cardstone, the little township
at the foot of the Tully Falls in Queens-
land. Preliminary surveys for the giant
hydroelectric scheme in the area failed to
determine whether the site of the town-
ship was in the Cardwell or Johnstone
shires, so the name of “Cardstone” be-
came an effective compromise, as neither
shire could be offended when the final
survey was made. The final survey was
made, and Cardstone has now been
declared, officially, to be part of the
Herberton Shire! —“Nomen.”
* * * *
“Cygnet”: Except loving arms, most
things coiling round one’s neck don't give
a pleasant sensation, but this coil
happened to be a live electric cable.
A while back, in a lane off a busy
Launceston (Tas.) street two high-
tension wires crossed, producing purple
flashes and clouds of smoke, and hurried
calls were sent to the H.E. Commission
and police. Constables were stationed at
each end to prevent pedestrians walking
into danger, while H.E.C. linesmen
attempted to clear the wires from an
office-window. The wires broke as a man
who had disregarded the warning hurried
along beneath, dropping neatly over his
head. Luckily for him the cable was
still insulated, and a bad fright was all the
damage he received,
“Uramao”: The Standard Maori
Diclionary wi |l soon be available after
, J nprocurable for 25 years ,
■., b , .A , , ,
Wlth son ? e two * OU B Sa " d
or meanings. The first edition (1844) and
we f r h e ,‘ he . wo " k f ° £ ,A sh ? P f
Wlllla ™ s , ; the^ lrd and £ ? urth ,hat ° f
son, Bishop W. L Williams; and his
grandson, Bishop W. H. Williams, was
responsible for the last (1917), reprinted
in 1921 and 1932. The Maori Purposes
Fund Board and the Maori Land Board
financed a band of experts to the tune of
£6OOO in research that has extended over
seven years for the new edition ; and the
Polynesian Society was responsible for
the editorial work.
* * * *
“Wag”: With a bull-fiddle on my back
I lumbered into the power room of a
commercial radio-station one rainy night
and, uncovering it to do a job, threw its
wet strap over a metal grille protecting
part of the electrical plant. Smoke rose ;
I jerked the strap out of danger, just
missing bumping the engineer, who
had rushed forward at sight of the smoke.
A bit flurried, he told me that had we
made contact in passing both of us might
have been electrocuted. “And what
would have happened then?” he asked.
I muttered something about two corpses
lying on the floor. “That’s all very fine,
mug,” he said, “but can’t you realise
that such a shock would’ve put the station
off the air?”
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: Can’t clear-up for “S.W.K.”
the mysterious duties of that “pelt-
pickler” (B. 4/9/’57), but a “boodler” is
a laborer who shifts anything from one
place to another with a shovel. A “tailer-
out” is the bloke who stands on the
opposite side from the sawyer and holds
up the lengths of sawn timber as they
come through the saw. A “scabbier”
scabbles or “sparrow-picks” a wall or
concrete floor (chops small chips out of
it) in order to give it suction or “key” and
thus enable the plastering or topping to
adhere. And just in case “S.W.K.” should
ever find himself face to face with an ad.
for a “crane-chaser,” it is not a person
addicted to pursuing long-legged water-
birds, but a codger whose duties entail the
hooking on and off of loads moved by
travelling cranes.
GIPPSLAND JOURNEY
Where once the wood-gods used to walk.
And melted snows like cool green ale
Frothed in the creeks, the fencing-rail,
The stranded wires, knit up the miles
Into a pattern that beguiles
Paddocks and knots of native trees
From Dandenong to Sale . . .
Townships and main-roads, dairy farms
And butter-factories,
Homesteads where sheds and haystacks
sprawl
And cows come early back to stall.
And here the giant pylons stalk
Up hill, down dale.
A goods-train trails a rumbling ditty
Drawing briquettes to feed and fill
The maws of commerce in the city —
Here where the railroad climbs a hilt.
A huge milk-wagon hustles by,
A timber-trailer rakes the bend;
While clouds sag sparsely down the sky
Into a distance world-wit hout-end.
A pleasant country, anyhow.
Beneath the aegis of the cow.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


nrWO men at Beenleigh (Q.), using an
A anchor as a hook, jagged through
the gills and captured a 4501 b. groper
which surfaced near their boat. Groper
are not usually so easily caught; notori-
ously tricky, their habit when hooked is
to dive into subterranean coral caves and
hang grimly on. They took a beating,
though, in the Burnett a few years back.
A distillery caught fire and great quanti-
ties of rum were run off into the river.
Down at the mouth there must have been
a huge colony of groper. In a few days
thousands of them were washed ashore in
advanced stages" of inebriation. When
weighed, some 600 of them tipped the
scales at more than 5001 b. each. —
“Mako.”
* * * *
“Kelms”: Word , has come back from
the British Museum of Natural History
that two giant petrels blown ashore on
the W.A. coast last winter had been
banded on Signy Island, in ♦the South
Orkneys, last spring. They died in a
storm 9000 miles from home, although it’s
anyone’s guess how far they flew on the
journey ; but the point I’d like to see
settled is which way they’d have gone
home if they’d survived. My bet is they’d
have flown east with the wind and circled
the globe. They’d have found that easier
than bucking their way against the wind
through the Roaring Forties, and they
wouldn’t have had it on their own.
Wasn’t there a case of a sailing-ship
going with the wind and sailing east all
the way from Melbourne to Adelaide?
* * * *
“Mick o’ Melbourne”: Have never
heard “nailrod” used as a description of
tobacco, but the connection is fairly plain.
The Shorter Oxford Dictionary defines
“nailrod” as “a bar or rod of iron from
which nails are cut.” The shape of some
of the old-time plug-tobacco could well
have led to the term being applied to it.
* * * *
“Kaydee”: “Phil Anthus” (B.
2/10/’57) might add to his gallery of
literary dogs Frank Dalby Davison’s
Rusty, Vance Palmer’s cattle-dog (in a
short story) and one of Henry Lamond’s.
BACK TO THE JUNGLE
A NYONE who walks in the tropics
isn’t right in the head; anyone
who climbs mountains there should be
certified.”
So say New Zealanders who live tem-
porarily in Samoa. So also say most
Samoans. But how is it possible to live
on an island 57 miles by 15, and not
climb to the highest point, which is
Mount Fito, in the centre of the island?
Not very high—36oBft.—but jungled to
its eyebrows, and five miles as the crow
flies from the nearest track. There are
no crows.
The Lands and Survey Department has
aerial photographs. I worked out what
appeared to be a possible route,
reproduced it on a transparency, and
found three other certifiables to join me.
The formation of the country is as
peculiar as was the composition of the
climbing-party. The central' mass is com-
posed of indiscriminately placed volcanic
craters, some of which are connected by
knife-edged ridges, while others stand
alone. The course, as I planned it, would
make a dog’s hind-leg look straight.
We started at sunrise. Felise took the
lead, swinging his long sharp sapelu,
carving a track for the rest of us to follow.
A small wiry Samoan of about Bst., his
red lava-lava kilted above his knees, an
ancient maroon football-jersey on his
back, and the lure of unknown country
in his eyes.
Felise is regarded as a mighty hunter.
Broad-shouldered Ma’a followed him, his
strong bottle-shaped legs making light
work of his load—a sugarbag half-filled
with taro and boiled green bananas. He’d
made a hole through the side of the bag,
carrying it hanging from his neck. A
strip of cloth was bound around his fore-
head to keep perspiration from his eyes
(Felise scorned such civilised amenities).
Then came Mex von Sternenfels, ex-
lieut., Hitler’s motorised infantry, Russian
front. Mex is tall, slim and straight. He
carried a well-filled borrowed Aus-
tralian Army pack and a small compass.
Present tubby, middle-aged ex-A.I.F.
scribe with another Army pack—and the
map—plodded in the rear.
Mex was given each change of course,
and he consulted his compass, and passed
on the information to Felise, via Ma’a.
Progress was rapid—nearly a mile an
hour. The jungle was extremely wet.
Somewhere up above the undergrowth,
rotten logs, vines and treetops was the
sun, if any. At the end of the day, a
brief glimpse of surf breaking on the reefs
of both north and south coasts was our
reward. Then a quick trek down to water
to make camp before dark.
Make camp? Dinner of taro, bananas
and cold water. Nothing dry enough to
burn, so no fire. Beds Samoan-style: a
heap of ferns and wild-banana leaves
between the root-buttresses of a fig-tree.
For my Samoan mates, 3ft. by 2ft. was
big enough. Wet? Of course. Everything
was wet. Drag a dry lava-lava from the
pack, curl up as a dog does, cover your-
self with the lava-lava, and sleep until the
sun wakes up. There’s a hole for your
hip and a root for your feet.
What more does a man need when his
stomach is full of taro, bananas and cold
water? No need to dig out a possie. No
need to post a guard. No need to clean
weapons and check ammo. No need to
wonder what that noise was —it could
only be a squabble of flying-foxes. No
enemies except the rain and tomorrow.
“Is goot,” says Mex. “E lelei,” say
Ma’a and Felise. I say nothing, but they
want to know what I’m grinning at.
IOANE (Samoa).


Business, Robbery, Etc.
Some Market Recovery
A FAIRLY strong rally
followed the “1 ow”
leached in the sharemarket on
October 9. As an indication,
B.H.P. went up from 51s. 9d.
to 555. 6d. on October 16, and
A. from 575. to 595. 3d. in
the same period. The “high”
lor B.H.P. this year was 605.,
and for A.C.I. a bit over 675.
Though the market remains
active —and selective —there is
no clear line of action indicated
ahead. Prices have again eased.
However, the prudent
investor at the present time, in
addition to a well-covered
present dividend, should look
for a reasonable yield on
today’s market price. It is not
impossible to find such invest-
ments. On the other hand, if
one buys a front-liner like
B. and accepts an
immediate yield of 3.6 p.c., one
should be prepared to hold the
stock for a considerable period
before a return equal to bond-
interest is likely to show up.
It isn’t much use counting on
market buoyancy to go on and
on and on. It never does. And
if the market goes against one,
it is better to have the consola-
tion of a reasonable yield while
waiting for the turn.
Key industrials will pay-off
well in the long-run. But it
may be a long long-run.
The general economic posi-
tion is still threatened by dry
weather, and the N.S.W. wheat-
harvest is put down already as
a failure. The wool clip will be
all right if general rain comes
fairly soon. But wool prices
are down, and export revenues
seem bound to be lower this
year unless there is some
unusual world demand for
wool.
The Bulletin’s summing-up
of the situation is that it is not
a time to gamble on general
buoyancy in the sharemarket.
Selective investment will prob-
ably continue to be highly
profitable, but some of the
factors which made the upward
general market surge possible in
the second half of 1956-57 are
not present during the first
half of 1957-58.
The “D.J.” Bonus
ANNOUNCEMENT of a
bonus-issue of 78 fully-paid
ords. for each 100 now held by
David Jones’s shareholders took
the market by surprise, and
there was a leap from 645. 3d.
to 78s. in the scrip overnight.
The bonus is being provided
by writing-up the book-value
of holdings in the recently
acquired subsidiaries—-Charles
Birks (Adelaide) and Finney
Isles (Brisbane) to the
market-value of the DJ. shares
(plus cash) issued at the time
of takeover. (D.J. shares were
issued at par, but were in fact
at a substantial premium in the
market, and this is now
regarded as having been part of
the consideration, as it un-
doubtedly was.)
As Sir Charles Lloyd Jones
said at the annual meeting:
We issued our shares at par,
though, in fact, their market-price
showed a substantial premium. The
price we paid for all the shares in
those two companies was accepted
by the shareholders of Charles Birks
and Finneys as being the sum of
the market-value of the shares we
issued, together with the cash paid.
As you know, we secured by the
acquisition of these subsidiary
companies not only prosperous busi-
nesses, but most valuable freehold
properties and other assets, which
your directors have now decided
to bring into the balance-sheet at
the value, which, in effect, David
Jones, Ltd., paid for them.
The book-value of invest-
ments in subsidiaries has been
increased by £2,285,132
accordingly, and that amount
has been placed to the credit
of capital reserve, which, after
an adjustment in respecfof two
other subsidiaries acquired
earlier, stands at £2,256,934.
On the enlarged capital the
board proposes to pay 10 p.c.,
against 15 p.c. at present.
Which means that the holder
of 100 shares who retains his
bonus-issue will get an annual
income of £l7 165., as against
£l5 at present. However, the
investor who pays 755. for the
scrip now, cum bonus, is pre-
pared to accept the immediate
low return of £4 15s. per cent.
But last year’s earnings were
equal to 21 p.c. on the ord.
capital as it will stand after
the bonus-issue is completed,
and the past year’s ploughed-
back profit was of the order
of £600,000.
These ploughed-back profits
should help to irrigate both the
financial position and earning-
power.
In addition to three depart-
ment-stores in Sydney, David
Jones, Ltd., owns or controls
Finneys (Brisbane), Charles
Birks (Adelaide), a store in
Perth, another in Wag g a
(N.S.W.), another in Newcastle,
and Selby Shoes.
“No Unfair Trading”
TN Perth on October 15 the
State Full Court prohibited
W. J. Wallwork, Unfair
Trading Control Commissioner,
from continuing inquiries into
Swan Portland Cement, Ltd.,
and Cement Sales Pty., Ltd.
Chief Justice Sir John Dwyer
said that all Swan Portland had
“I know this much—some of this dough'll take my
kid to the Uni. to do Law.”
done since the passing of the
Unfair Trading and Profit Con-
trol Act was to continue making
deliveries to Cockburn Cement
Pty., Ltd. The Swan com-
pany’s charges were made to
Cockburn Cement and did not
affect the public in any way.
Mr. Justice Wolff said it
could not possibly be said that
Swan had gained control of
the market in Portland cement.
The court held that Commis-
sioner Wallwork did not have
reasonable grounds for believ-
ing that Swan Portland Cement,
Ltd., was guilty of unfair
trading.
Chief Justice Sir John Dwyer
said, in a reserved judgment,
that the charge against the
company was that it acted as a
member of a combine.
The charge alleged that the
combine was monopolising or
attempting to monopolise the
trade in Portland cement and
that its prices for cement were
unreasonable, contrary to the
interests of the public.
A preliminary investigation
showed that before the passing
of the Unfair Trading and
Profit Control Act the Swan
Portland Company entered
into agreements in November,
1956, to sell 40,000 tons of
cement a year for 20 years to
Cockburn Cement, which con-
tracted to lend Swan Portland
£lOO,OOO.
“The alleged combine,” the
Chief Justice said, “is said to
consist of the buyer and the
seller and a third"' company
which really has no active
existence at all.
“The only purpose of the
Swan company in entering into
the agreements appears to have
been to save itself from possible
liquidation and to gain an
assured market for a consider-
able part of its possible produc-
tion.
“In my view, that cannot be
reasonably construed as being
a member of a combination,
or that there is a combination,
or that such a combination is
attempting to monopolise the
cement trade.”
Westralia and N.Q.
[From JL. Owen]
A BOUT a year ago an article
dealing with the geology
and oil prospects of the
Permian beds underlying a
broad strip of country running
from southwards from Spring-
sure in Central Queensland
almost to Roma appeared in
the Bulletin of the American
Association of Petroleum
Geologists. It was written by
an Australian geologist, E. A.
Webb, who had been connected
with the search for oil in the
region indicated. This year it
has been reprinted in the
“Q ueensland Government
Mining Journal,” May, 1957.
Similarities in the charac-
teristics of the Permian beds of
W.A. and Central Queensland
are made very obvious from the
collected well-data, although
this similarity is not dealt with
specifically. It may be recalled


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WARES —Is Divorce.
TO LOUISA ZELMA MAY GREEN late
of 70 Baringa Road Northbridge.-
TAKE NOTICE that ROWLAND CALEB
GREEN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3458 of 1957 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 31st December
1957 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from J. R. THOMAS,
Solicitor, of 39 Martin Place, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
V
v
The wife and I . . .
We’ve been partners in running our home a
long time. It was hard work at first; but things
are a lot easier now we budget and have our
own A.N.Z. Cheque Accounts.*
What we like most about A.N.Z. is the con-
venience of having both Cheque and Savings
Accounts at the one Branch. The children
particularly enjoy the idea of having their 1
savings accounts at our Bank makes them
feel quite grown up.
* Our free booklet, "Bank Accounts for Every-
one,” is now available at all A.N.Z. Bank
branches. Ask for your copy.
A-N-Z
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED —Cheque Accounts
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LlMlTED —Savings Accounts
■ANZ4I7. IBR‘
that it had been stressed, on
surface evidence, by Dr. W. G.
Woolnough more than a
quarter of a century ago and
long before any reliable sub-
surface information was avail-
able.
Of the six bores now
analysed in detail No. 1 and
No. 2 on Reid’s Dome were
spudded-in at the lowest con-
venient stratigraphical level, or,
in other words, on the most
marked stratigraphical “highs.”
Yet neither of them reached the
basal andesite, although No. 1
well was carried down to
9060 ft. On the other hand, the
Morelia well—located on what
was only a minor “high”—was
started at least 2000 ft. strati-
graphically above the Reid’s
Dome wells. But it encountered
andesite at the shallow depth
of 4365 ft.!
Had intensive geophysical
surveys, of the type carried out
in W.A., been made in the
Central Queensland district
surrounding Revvan Station,
Reid’s Dome must have shown
both gravity and seismic
‘lows,” and Morelia a geo-
physical “high”—as it did, in
fact, in the course of the post-
mortem inquiry.
The parallelism between
Reid’s Dome and Cape Range,
on the one hand, and between
Morelia and Yanrey on the
other, is inescapable. It is
further strengthened by the
persistence, through 4600 ft., of
“undivided freshwater sedi-
ments” of Permian . age,
followed by an unbottomed
column of shales and mud-
stones for another 3000 ft. in
Reid's Dome No. 1 well.
Remember the almost unbroken
11,000 ft. of “grey siltstone”—
allegedly all of Upper Jurassic
age—in Cape Range No. 2 (B.
18/1 / ’56)?
These unchanging strata very
forcibly indicate the absence
of major rhythmic movement
(B. 27/2/’57) and should
provide plenty of food for
thought when Wapet proceeds
once again to re-evaluate the
mounting total of geological
and geophysical data.
That re-evaluation may be
necessary even before Lear-
month No. 1 well is completed.
Reichhold Chemical
pOLLOWING a one-for-two
A bon us-issue and a par
issue of a similar amount,
Reichhold Chemical Industries,
Ltd., struck a recession in the
industries to which it sells, and
group net profit was £245,349,
compared with £255,210 in the
preceding year. The latest
year’s profit bore a charge of
£72,700 for depreciation
(£63,943 preceding year) and
£132,763 taxation (£173,605).
On the doubled ord. capital
(now £1,406,084, with pref.
capital at £100,000) there was
no difficulty in paying the
promised 11 p.c. div., which
called for £125,670 (pref.
£5000). On the present capital
for a full year an 11 p.c. div.
and the pref. charge would call
for about £160,000.
The Reichhold group make
a wide variety of synthetic
resins, acetate emulsions,
formaldehyde glues, gums and
chemical-pigment colors used in
the paint, printing-ink, plastics,
plywood, rubber, wax-polish
and paper and linoleum
industries.
Last term the phthalic-
anhydride installation at Botany
was duplicated, the new N.Z.
plant was completed, and
at Springvale, Vic., a new
synthetic - resin plant was
finished in September. Present
capital has been adequate
to finance these extensions,
which should start to pay-off
this term, but more fully in
1958-59.
At the annual meeting chair-
man E. S. Wolfenden spoke of
the “magnitude and importance
in this country of the surface-
coating and plastic industries,
both of which are closely
integrated”:
From a very modest beginning,
the growth in the last decade has
been phenomenal.
Plastic products are to be found
in many factories in the form of
pipelines, roofing, protective cloth-
ing, electrical cables and switchgear,
containers for corrosive liquids, and
drum-liners for an extensive range
of products.
Our own manufactures cover, in
addition, paints, varnish, lacquer,
and printing-inks, to mention only
a few of them.
Some indication of the potential
is evident when it is realised that
the American consumption of plastic
raw materials is approximately 301 b.
per head of population.
The Australian figure is approxi-
mately one-third of the American on
a population basis, and it is increas-
ing each year in line with the general
high growth of the plastics industry
as a whole.
Every new plastic material opens
up fresh avenues for fabrication,
and often leads to the creation of
new industries. The Australian
plastics industry is young and
vigorous, geared to an increasing
number and diversification of pro-
ducts, and Is certainly a challenge to
chemists seeking new and widening
omens.
Following a drift to 245. in
the recent sharemarket setback,
the 10s. ord. shares in Reich-
hold have recovered to 265., to
give the modest immediate
yield of 4.2 p.c. But in accept-
jng that yield the market takes
note of the wide d iv.-cover, the
comfortable liquid position, and
the forward-looking note in the
address of chairman Wolfen-
den, who has helped to guide
several Australian enterprises to
success and strength over the
past quarter-century.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPAM LIMITED
Invorpuialed in krtyLand
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESION,
AUCKLAND and
WELLING lON, N.Z.
KllV mom SAFE!
SANDERS
files;
; v;
Correspondence, invoices,'
statements. etc., filed in the
"Sanders* 4 can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference al
the end of each month —Of
any other period.
Prices and fur*
(her information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing AgtrUt —
MCI.BOUftNI , i Norman Bros. Fty. Lti
ADELAIDE 4 , . Vardoit Prieo Ltd.
ELfttU | | • Dookot Book Co. (Ami.)
THE CHALLENGE THAT IS QUEENSLAND
By H. HASTINGS DEERING
Queensland eventually
will have a population of
20-million in an Australian
total of 40-million. This is the
estimate of Colin Clark, now
director of the Research Insti-
tute of Agricultural Economics
at Oxford.
However close we may get
to the fulfilment of that pre-
diction from an economist of
world eminence, I think there
is one thing we should try to
fix firmly in our Australian
minds: In building to an over-
all prosperity there can be no
place for State rivalries. For
State loyalties, yes, and for the
due development of resources in
every part of this Common-
wealth ; but what Queensland
has in keeping is going to be
of special benefit to the whole
of Australia.
I believe ‘ a. mark of the
quality of leadership in the
new Queensland Government
will be how well it can educate
Australian thought to that
obvious truth.
At Cairns, some days ago,
I realised the force of Colin
Clark’s appraisal of where
natural expansion is likely to
lead us. Cairns is “capital” of
the province that holds the
great new bauxite deposits in
Cape York Peninsula, just as
Townsville is pivot for the
rising mineral wealth around
Mount Isa and Mary Kath-
leen.
North and west and far south
from these cities are wide
stretches of country, each with
its own rich contribution to
make to the economy, and each
with its compelling call to still
further development ; and out
to the east is the Great Barrier
Reef that is one of the wonders
of the world. This is country
that was virgin for long years
after settlement was established
in regions farther south. Now
it magnifies the challenge that
is Queensland.
I went by road from Cairns
to Mackay, where the first
bulk-loading system has been
installed for the shipment of
sugar. It is the biggest sugar-
installation of its kind in the
world, and its construction was
carried through in record time.
It cost £1 y million, and is part
of a long-range programme to
provide similar plant at four
other ports —Lucinda Point
(Ingham), Townsville, Bunda-
berg, and either Mourilyan
(Innisfail) or Cairns. Three are
expected to be operating by
1958.
The total cost will be up-
wards of £6-million, and by
cutting the loading-time to one
day, compared with 20 days
by manual labour, it wiil pay
for itself ; just as the Mackay
Harbor has repaid its cost by
the savings effected in lighter-
ing charges since it was opened
in 1939. In the Queensland
sugar industry there is big
margin for the saving; the
1956 crop realised £s4y-
million.
The point that thrusts itself
into the mind on seeing the
Mackay bulk-handling plant is
that the thinking which pro-
duced this could well be applied
to the making of roads—not
only in North Queensland, but
through the State and through-
out Australia. The same prin-
ciple of economy applies.
The road on which I travelled
down from Cairns to Mackay
was good in parts, but there
were bad stretches, and at best
it was a narrow strip, with
narrower bridges. Queensland’s
new Government will have
made a powerful stroke for
northern development if it
meets its promise to seal the
highway all the way from
Brisbane to Cairns, and to give
all-weather roads from Towns-
ville to Mount Isa, and Brisbane
to Charleville.
While Queensland’s North
is a job in itself, the whole
State is ripe for developmental
action. It has one-third of
Australia’s good usable land.
On an international formula of
what constitutes “standard
farm-land,” it is credited with
having 40 per cent, of the Aus-
tralian total. And because of
the State’s size and varied
climate, it has the most diverse
potential for commercial
crops. In 10 years its area
under crops has risen by
800,000 acres to 2,600,000 —in
a State where 50-million acres
has been classed as capable of
agriculture!
The prospect does not end
with farming, basic as that is in
terms of settlement, food, and
population. Nor is it limited
by the “new look” in minerals.
Queensland is the beef Stale ;
and on latest figures from the
Commonwealth Statistician we
find that Australia's meat pro-
duction last year was a record
of nearly 1,250,000 tons. But
home consumption also was
higher at nearly 884,000 tons
—just about 2081 b. per head
of population and there was
less for export.
Clearly, if Australia is to
feed itself and maintain its
meat exports, the Queensland
beef-industry will have to be
boosted, and integrated more
closely with the Northern
Territory in transport facilities
for the movement and market-
ing of stock from their joint
areas.
It is one thing to point to
where the natural opportunities
lie and quite another to work
them out into reality. The hard
truth is that development must
be merged with finance, and we
have to reconcile ourselves to
the fact that the commodity
in shortest supply is money.
That is true of all the States,
and of the Commonwealth. The
need is threefold. There must
be Government assistance and
private investment on as large
a scale as possible from within
Australia. Then, we must have
the help of all the capital that
can be attracted from overseas.
And, not least, we must have
the confident ability to
“invest in ourselves,” spiritually
as well as materially.
In the conducting of any
business governmental or
commercial—there must be
balance ; and the art of good
management is to be able to
build upon assets as they
appear. It is a question of
“wise emphasis.” And that is
how l view Queensland and its
resources and financial require-
ments in the framework of
Australia now.
Looking to Governments
will not be sufficient. Within
Australia we have not in
public or private funds the
finance required for the full
national job ahead. Of necessity,
we have to direct the invitation
further overseas, to try to bring
in more capital from Britain
and America.
To see how wide and pressing
is the demand, we have only to
look at it under two vital head-
ings—railways and roads. One
sidelight of the recent Federal
Budget was the Treasurer’s
announcement that the Com-
monwealth is ready to assist in
the conversion of the line
between Aibury and Melbourne
to standard 4ft. Byin.-gauge,
which will complete the
standard link between Brisbane
and Melbourne. The estimated
cost of that project is £lO
million, and it is expected to
be completed in 2\ years. It
will go some of the way
towards solving the continental
problem of multiple rail-gauges,
and is a sign that nationally
we are starting to “think big.”
At the same time, in North
Queensland, the £3O-million
scheme for strengthening the
railway-line between Towns-
ville and Mount Isa-Mary
Kathleen, to serve the future
of those expanding mineral
fields, awaits official survey and
sanction.
All over Australia the need
for roads becomes more urgent.
Along with this we have the
other demands —of settlement,
water- and land-conservation,
and so on —all of them rightly
insistent if we are to keep sight
of the fact that our prosperity
springs from the soil. Around
us are countless things to be
done, some immediate, others
(Continued on page 31)


“Satellite to earth—satellite to earth ... The other side of the moon has a woman on it.. . Over ..."


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Tales of Hoffmann”
The Elizabethan Trust
followed its “La Boheme” at
Melbourne Princess with
“Otello,” filling the theatre
with Shakspeare’s noble
thoughts and Verdi’s magnifi-
cent music. The glorious sing-
ing of Desdemona Joan Ham-
mond, with the great bulk of
Otello Ronald Dowd squeez-
ing the life and the loveliest
notes out of the poor thing,
were still ringing in one’s ears
when the company came up
with “Tales of Hoffmann.”
Offenbach’s sometimes
thrilling and sometimes
delicious music, the sometimes
silly and sometimes sensible
libretto, the various quaint
stage - devices and such
operatic highlights as the
glorious singing of Florence
Pong, plus her clever acting
as Olympia, the puppet—all
these made a sufficiently agree-
able mixture to satisfy every
palate as long as the details
weren’t too closely studied.
Producer Stefan Haag had
the time of his life making the
most of the spectacular side of
the business at the expense of
the music, but Madge Stephens
restored the balance with her
sympathetic singing of
Antonio, and was aided and
abetted by Joyce Simmons, as
Giulietta, and Victor Franklin,
as Hoffmann.
There was a
exactitude about Georg
Tinter’s conducting which
tended at times to obscure the
wavy lines of Offenbach’s
melodious scoring.
❖ ❖ ♦>
William Clauson
With one foot delicately
poised over a neat pink box
and wearing a huge smile,
twentieth - century troubador
William Clauson sang and
guitared to an audience that
could have been bigger at Mel-
bourne Town Hall. His reper-
toire consisted solely of tradi-
tional folksongs gleaned from
eight different countries, and he
certainly had in high degree
the knack of catching those
little idiosyncrasies which make,
say, “Greensleeves” so different
from the negro spiritual “He’s
Got the Whole World in His
Hand.”
Clauson’s troubadoring takes
him from concert-hall to
concert-hall the world over,
just as the balladeers of old
trouped from medieval court to
king’s castle, and, like them,
he can entertain without affec-
tation. He is an artist; but
separate his voice from his
guitar, or his guitar from his
voice, and as musicians go he
would be very ordinary. The
guitar is always secondary to
his singing, his singing
secondary to his storytelling,
and what more could one ask
of a balladeer?
Present writer preferred his
playing of the Spanish “Coplas
del Vito” —a wonderful little
piece full of life and color —
the amusing “Black-eyed Susie”
from America, and the ever-
lastingly beautiful “Green-
sleeves.” But one feels that if
Clauson forgot trick-effects for
a while and concentrated more
on the traditional Spanish
style of guitar-accompaniment
he would be even better.
“Tonight in Samarkand”
More than luck would have
been needed to lift Melbourne
Union Repertory Company’s
production of Jacques Deval’s
circus play, “Tonight in
Samarkand,” out of the
commonplace. The prodigious
efforts of Wyn Roberts, Kay
Eklund and others were not
sufficient to solve a problem
which apparently was not clear
in the author’s mind from the
outset.
The piece is described as a
play which “does not deal so
much with the foretelling of
death but its inevitability,” and
that’s a pretty description ; but
whatever M. Deval was aiming
at, it did not emerge from the
play with convincing clearness.
A tall, handsome fortune-teller
falls in love with a lady tiger-
tamer. He warns her that if
she elopes with his rival, a
good-looking juggler, or with
yet another rival, a rich patron,
the one she chooses will die.
She marries the fortune-teller
because, so he says, he cannot
foretell his own future.
Tigers dying, ominously
silent French women, ill-fated
boats that leave port and queer
circus accidents are very enter-
taining but don’t help to
illuminate the business.
*> * ♦♦♦
The Smetana Quartet
This remarkably fluent
ensemble from Prague (Jiri
Novak, first violin; Lubomir
Kostecky, second violin;
Milan Skampa, viola; and
Antonin Kohout, ’cello) have
brought to Australia chamber-
music playing of the highest
order. Their balance of tone
is practically faultless; their
concentration is an object-
lesson to all aspiring quartet-
players ; and their playing of
all works from memory gives
added point to their grasp not
only of the score itself, but of
the spirit behind it and of the
creative impulses which
brought it into being.
They opened the first concert
of their short return-season to
Sydney with the 16-year-old
Schubert’s, E Flat Quartet, Op.
125—a lyrical reading which
fully exploited the music’s
freshness and geniality, its flow-
ing melodies and captivating
rhythms.
The Quartet which followed,
the D Major, Op. 35, of their
compatriot, Vitezslav Novak, is
strongly-knit, rather solemn,
with pleasing harmonies and
some impressionistic touches
ol modernity.
The final Quartet was
Dvorak’s A Flat, Op. 105, and
the players obviously revelled
in its folk-like melodies, its
rippling rhythms, and its
vitality. Particularly attractive
was the delicate effect of light
and shade as the mood moved
from unrestrained gaiety to
thoughtfulness.
Artbursts
Melbourne Exhibitions
Industrial decentralisation
hasn’t progressed much in Vic-
toria since it was first mooted,
but the decentralisation of art


€ LYSACSHT
RURAL PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY
jDalgety
AND COMPANY LIMITED
iVSAMI BARN
your own
grain storage
saves time-money
• Heavy gauge galvanized steel sheet*
• Easily erected permanent
• Redent and weatherproof
• Hinged type bag holder
on 1000-8500 Bushel Silos
• Steel earth rings and
loading platforms are
available as extras if
r n
uired
Prompt delivery
J
LYSAGHT
Grain Silos
EARTH RING
An earth ring, which is an extra
ring cf corrugated steel sheets
filled with earth or sand, is a
most effective and economical
method of erecting an elevated
base for your Lysaght Silo. The
use of an ec th ring reduces the
risk of unoerground seepage.
Full details are available on
request.
AUGERS
A completely new type grain
auger is now available to fill
and empty Lysaght Silos.
AND AUGERS
PRICES (F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
200 Bushel Silo £4B
250 „ „ (Elevated) £94
500 „ „ £BO
1,000 * „ £l3B
2,000 „ „ £2ll
2,000 „ „ (Squat) £2ll
3,000 „ „ £275
3.500 „ „ £298
4.500 „ » £953
8.500 „ „ £719
Write for further information to:
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. in all Capital Cities or
LYSAGHT'S WORKS PTY. LIMITED. NEWCASTLE WORKS
S2SAC
has, judging by the display by
the Ferntree Gully Society of
paintings, sculpture, furniture,,
fabrics and ceramics at the
Athenaeum Gallery.
“The Gully,” as it is affec-
tionately called by its
inhabitants, is a delightful little
village nestlihg at the foot of
the blue Dandenongs. Its isola-
tion is broken at weekends by
hordes of city motorists who
stream through it en route to
the scenic wonders of the
Sherbrooke Forest, but for the
rest of the week its peace and
calm remain unbroken and the
indigenous artist has the
perfect conditions for untram-
melled contemplation.
According to its catalogue,
the society believes that for the
majority of people the purpose
of art is home-decoration, and
for the few years of its exist-
ence it has been going for this
ideal with its ears back. The
Jesuits are unexpected. No
emporium in the city could
show furniture more modish
and highly polished, pottery
which conforms more to the
prevailing fashion, sculpture
more abstract or divorced from
Nature, or more modern
fabrics.
The pictures fall a bit short
of contemporary styles in paint-
ing. Roy Crooke has a “Native
and Rocks” which betrays some
observation, and Reshid Bey’s
self-portrait and his “The Critic
and the Patron” show consider-
able skill. Most of the other
pictures would pass muster in
any metropolitan exhibition.
The Ferntree Gully show was
followed at the Athenaeum by
an exhibition by the Melbourne
Society of Women Painters and
Sculptors, although the sculp-
tural interest was almost non-
existent —it consisted of four
small pieces set up in two
corners which could easily have
passed unnoticed in the parade
of pictured form and color.
Ola Cohn’s “Maternal” in
terracotta deserves a mention ;
her “The People” doesn’t.
There is more vigor, not
always tempered by discretion,
in the painterly division.
Eleanor Dunn has made a
rather unusual attempt to
depict an orchestra in action
in “Rehearsal,” M. McChesney
Mathews has made a symphony
in silver out of sea and boats
in “Little H a r b o r,” Vera
Morrison’s “Pasture” is as
inviting as an irrigated patch in
the bumt-up Mallee, and
Esther Paterson succeeds in
giving some indication of
having studied the sunlight of
the Harbor City m a street
scene entitled “Midsummer,
Sydney.”
Mary McLeish becomes more
and more sketchy, and in
“The Black Veil” and “Stotts”
gives an impression as of a
sentence in which nothing
remains except a couple of
verbs and a preposition. In
two large landscapes Lina
Bryans handles jagged masses
of unrelated color with more
confidence than observation,
although the results are easier
to look at than most of the
meticulously painted still-life.
Lesley Sinclair sho’ivs the other
ladies how in a soft but firm
“Spring Landscape,” painted at
the Exhibition Gardens.
Films
“12 Angry Men”
This, in its dramatic impact
and distinguished direction and
acting, is by far the best film
shown in Sydney this year.
Except for the first few
minutes, when the judge makes
a brief summing-up to the
“good men and true” before
they retire, the entire action
takes place in the jury-room
during the trial of a slum-
raised youth of 18 for the
alleged murder of his father.
To 11 jurymen the evidence
seems so damning that in a
preliminary voting—the verdict
must be unanimous either way
—they unhesitatingly decide on
his guilt. The 12th man; an
architect (Henry Fonda), has
his doubts.
It is a sweltering day and the
rest want to get the proceedings
over and done with. When
they heatedly demand his
reasons he submits what he
honestly believes to be two
weak points in the prosecu-
tion’s case, and which an
apathetic public defender had
failed to bring forward. The
ferocity with which two obvious
bigots (Lee Cobb and Ed.
Begley) attack the architect
sows a doubt in an elderly
member’s mind, and in a
second vote, this time a secret
one,, he joins the architect.
Thus reinforced, the architect
puts forward othe%points which
seem further to weaken the
prosecution’s case, slowly
chipping-away at what first
seemed a cast-iron case, and the
absorbing struggle of minds,
gradually reveals the honesty,
the prejudices and downright
hatred of the various members
of the jury.
Henry Fonda, always a
sincere actor, has never done
better, and the other portrayals
are all good—characters such
as the tight-lipped, coldly
logical stockbroker who finds
most of his fellow-jurymen
distasteful ; the migrant watch-
maker, quietly proud of this
democratic privilege; the
garage - proprietor whose
determination to condemn
rests solely on his hatred of
slum-dwellers; the humdrum
clerk ; and the sporting urger
anxious to get away to his
bets on the ball-game.
The director is Henri


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ANN DAY.—TAKE NOTICE that
DESIREE ELIZABETH ELLIS has filed
her Petition No. 1280 of 1957 in the
Supreme Court of New South Wales
praying for a dissolution of her mar-
riage with her husband KENNETH
WHITE ELLIS on the ground of his
adultery with you You may apply to
the Court to be let in to defend the
charge if you so desire A copy of the
Petition may be obtained free of charge
from MESSRS. LIONEL DARE &
REED & MARTIN, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 11c Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RICHARD BRETIIERTON late of
Hampton Court Hotel Bayswater Road
King’s Cross.—TAKE NOTICE that
PEARL BRETHERTON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 479 of 1957
on the ground of desertion without
just .cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 18th November
1957 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from J. A NULL
MILLETT & CO., Solicitor, of 245 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Lumet, who finds no need to
fall back on camera-shots for
his dramatic effects, and who
gives plenty of evidence of a
new and interesting intellect
at work. At Sydney Esquire,
❖ *** ❖
“Yangtse Incident”
This British film gives a
pretty good account of H.M.S.
Amethyst’s gallant running of
the Chinese Communists’ land-
battery gauntlet to escape into
the open sea after the un-
provoked attack on her in
the Yangtse River during the
civil war in 1949.
It is a story of courage and
fortitude, with tension and
suspense well held 'in the
sequences leading up to the
"Evicted? No, Sarge! Our car broke down at the drive-in."
quiet slipping of the greased
anchor-cable in the dark and
the slugging-match with the
batteries as the frigate breaks
the river-boom 'in its dash for
freedom.
As the Naval Attache who is
sent to command Amethyst
when her captain dies of
wounds, and who is given carte
blanche to act as he thinks best,
Richard Todd conveys an air
of easy authority, and leavens
tight discipline with a meed
of wry humor. William Hart-
nell gives a neat character-
study of a hard-bitten veteran
bosun. The only weak spot is
Akim Tamiroff’s mel o -
dramatic Red Chinese politico-
military delegate who orders
the British commander to stay
stuck in the river-mud, or else.
At Sydney State.
“The Young Don’t Cry”
A 16-year-old inmate of an
orphanage thrashes a stand-
over bully bigger than him-
self and thereby catches the
eye of a wealthy ex-inmate
who has got into the big
money via the standover game
and who is a regular visitor
to his old institution to look
for likely recruits to his
“business.” The youth is
weighing the offer of a job
with the Big Shot when he is
forced by an escaping lifer
from a road-gang to aid him,
and the resultant ordeal brings
out the significant things in his
character.
As the conscience-troubled
youth, Sal* Mineo gives a
remarkably initell i g e n t
characterisation a natural
following his good work
with James Dean in “Rebel
Without a Cause.” James
Whitmore, as the convict,
and J. Carroll Naish, as a
relentless prison-warder, also
give solid portrayals. At
Sydney Victory,
*** ***
„
uernadine
The main purpose of this, a
lightweight at Sydney Mayfair,
is to introduce to the screen
Pat Boone, a young crooner
(already a name on the strength
of his records) hailed as “Bing
Crosby the Second.”
Boone plays a suave and
eloquent member of a group of
American high-school students,
who, when not lazing about
locker-rooms, racing speed-
boats and driving about in
fast cars, spend their time
worshipping the image of a
dream-girl—Bernadine. When
the awkwardest of their number
flqkes upon a little thing on
a switchboard worthy of the
title “Bernadine” the scene is
set for complications, which a
big Air Force brother, worry-
ing parents and a fickle girl
provide.
Terry Moore lends her oval-
faced pertness to the part of the
girl, and Boone, a good-looking
young man with the clean-cut
features of an American
magazine-advertisement model,
handles his part quite adroitly.
And he can sing—as an anti-
dote to the rock-’n’-rollin’
Presleys and their type, he is
pleasant listening, worthy of
being, the “Old Moaner’s”
protege. But he is probably at
his best when he diverges from
the steady Crosby beat into his
own style, with a semi-Calypso
rhythm, as in an engaging tune
entitled “Technique.”
❖ ❖ *>
“It’s Great to Be Young”
There is bubbling spontaneity
and occasional uproariousness
in this comedy of English
school-life.
The austere new headmaster
(Cecil Parker), keen to concen-
trate on academic subjects,
ordains that the school
orchestra’s activities be cur-
tailed. The mercurial, popular
and unorthodox music-master
(John Mills) gets his back up,
sparks fly, and he is fired. The
students’ well-directed cam-
paign for his restoration is
successful, with reconciliation
at the top-level and handsome
acknowledgments of short-
comings all round.
The film’s main attraction
lies in the naturalness of its
juveniles and a clinking stretch
of comedy from Mills.
At Sydney Embassy.
♦l»
“The Wayward Bus”
This Steinbeck story uses an
ill-conditioned bus bouncing
over wretched roads in a storm
as a convenient vehicle to
present its oddly-assorted set
of characters: the rebellious
young driver who, on the
rebound from a domestic
upheaval, seduces the willing
daughter of two eternally-
bickering passengers ; a hearty,
slick-talking geegaw-salesman
(Dan Dailey), who is attracted
to a bottle-blonde floozie who
is trying to lift herself out of
her past (Jayne Mansfield); a
single-minded character who
relentlessly urges the driver
on, irrespective of inconveni-
ence to anybody else, so that
he may keep an appointment
on time.
The character - drawing,
except in the case of Miss
Mansfield, is sharp enough,
and there is some particularly
good work by Joan Collins, as
the bus-driver’s dilatory slattern
of a wife who seizes upon any
domestic difference as an
excuse to hit the bottle.
At Sydney Plaza.


The jllan on the Land
needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who will conserve
his Estate for those whom, under his Will, he desires to benefit
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY has for over sixty-five
years successfully managed country estates. The Company’s
extensive organisation and wide experience ensures that the
interests of its clients will receive every safeguard and attention.
AV'
•5
M
* •».
Ensure for your
Estate the benefit of
this experience and
obtain for your
beneficiaries the pro-
tection of capital
and assets exceeding
£1,000,000.
Write for a free explanatory booklet.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS!
G. B. Kater (Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
(Vice-Chairman).
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming. C. H. Locke .
Lieut.-General Sir John Northcott,
K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., C.B.
Manager: F. R. Garland.
Assistant Manager: M. A. Foulcher
Secretary : P. H. Andrews.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O'Connell St., Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT.TI«T* H
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Guarantee Corporation
npHE full and profitable employment of
the funds available to hire-purchase
financiers is no longer the comparatively
easy task it was two or three years ago
—when fund -raising was more of a pro-
blem—and h.-p. cos. are now operating
under increasingly competitive conditions.
While reflecting in part a decline from the
abnormally high interest-rates offered in
the money market over recent years, the
reduction in certain h.-p. charges an-
nounced by several leading h.-p. cos.
earlier this month is also indicative of
the altered trading conditions and is likely
to be followed by a further paring of
h.-p. interest-rates.
A large proportion of the funds pro-
vided for h.-p. transactions goes into the
new- and used-car market, and, with trade
in this direction rather sluggish, it is not
surprising that the new reductions in
interest-charges relate to ihe purchase
of motor-vehicles, a field in which the
32-year-old Australian Guarantee Cor-
poration, Ltd., is particularly active by
virtue of its strong connections with the
distributors of Ford motor-vehicles.
One of the largest and oldest h.-p.
organisations in Australia, A.G.C. has
four wholly owned subsidiaries, Traders
Finance Corp., Allfence Finance Corp.
(N.Z.) —which finance sales of Ford pro-
ducts in Australia and New Zealand
respectively—Transport and General
Insurance Co., and Empire Insurances
(handling group and general insurance
business).
To meet the strong demand for
h.-p. facilities over the last decade the
co. has obtained considerable amounts
of debenture- and deposit-money (holding
£14.5 million at June 30 last) and sub-
stantially increased its share-capital.
Group earnings jumped from £37,758 in
1947 to over £l.l million in 1955, the ord.
div.-rate rising from 7 p.c. to 15 p.c. over
the same period.
Cash issues in 1953, 1954 and 1955
added £2,246,792 to paid capital, as well
as bringing in another £591,912 in share-
premiums, and at the end of last term the
co. further strengthened its long-term
prospects by issuing 2,490,000 f.-p. £1
ords. to the Bank of New South Wales,
giving the bank a 40 p.c. ord.-sharehold-
ing. No new funds were made available
by this transaction (which took paid
capital to £6,875,000, including £150,000
in 6 p.c. prefs. and £500,000 in 5 p.c.
prefs.), the fresh capital being applied to
a reduction in the overdraft.
The group’s h.-p. turnover increased by
£lO million to approximately £66 million
last term, a higher premium-income help-
ing the main insurance offshoot (Trans-
port and General) to return a higher net
profit despite heavier motor-vehicle
claims. However, higher operating-costs
and larger provisions for depreciation,
staff-contingencies, etc. (totalling £135,886,
up £33,854) left group earnings £12,137
lighter at £1,160,288 after setting aside
£942,964 (down £13,616) for taxation:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
/——Dividends ■>, To Re- Re-
June. Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. serves.
6 & 5 p.c. 11.76 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
Unexplained reduction, £13,023 .. 1,200,927
1953.. 767,595 34,000 175,019 558,576 1,759,503
Share premiums, £183,331 .. .. 1,942,834
Share issue expenses, £7601 .. .. 1,935,233
Unexplained addition, £2157 . . 1,937,390
15 p.c.
1954.. 902,384 34.000 289,578 578,806 2.516,196
Share premiums, £175,082 .. .. 2,691,278
To contingencies provision, £75,000.. 2,616,278
Share issue expenses, £6435 2,609,843
Unexplained addition, £7579 . . 2,617,422
1955. .1,168,096 34,000 367,626 766,470 3,383,892
' Capital profit, £2067 .. ~ . . 3,385,959
To contingencies provision, £75,000 .. 3,310,959
Share-issue expenses, £7887 .. .. 3.303,072
Share-premiums, £233,499 .. .. 3,536.571
Unexplained addition, £2596 . . 3,539,167
1956. .1,172,425 34,000 560,250 578,175 4,117,342
Capital profit, £2297 .. .. .. 4,119,639
To contingencies prov’n, £109,000 . . 4,019,639
. Unexplained addition, £231 .. .. 4,019,870
1957. .1,100,288 34,000 560,250 566,038 4,585,908
The unchanged 15 p.c. ord. div. was well
covered, earnings, after allowing for the
pref. divs., equalling a return of 30.1 p.c.
on ord. capital, compared with 30.5, 46.2,
45 and 49.2 p.c. back to 1953.
A 15 p.c. div. on the share-capital
obtained from the ’Wales (the premium
reduces it to a net 9.2 p.c.) will be more
costly than bank-interest on that portion
of the overdraft replaced by the new
capital (particularly as interest paid is a
deduction from taxable profits), unaltered
div.-rates on the enlarged capital calling
for £812,125 or £348,163 less than last
term’s net profit.
Repayments under h.-p. agreements are
providing an increasing proportion of the
funds needed to finance new business,
and a large part of the additional
£5,982,198 provided by debenture-holders
and depositors last term went to reduce
the co.’s debt to the bank, the overdraft
dropping by £4,465,787:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— T 955. 1956. 1957.
Pref. .. £650,000 £650,000 £650,000
Ord. .. 2,801,000 3,735,000 3,735,000
Reserves .. 3,388,892 4,117,342 4,585,908
Debentures .. 4,693,925 6,521,225 12,335,620
Deposits . . 1,690,683 2,011,718 2,179,521
Overdraft .. 11,126,021 10,083,740 5,617,953
Creditors, etc. 1,063,079 1,009,427 1,163,702
llnexptred risks 1,134,427 1,261,579 1,383,478
Unearned income 3,404,946 3,400,971 4,072,996
Staff fund .. 97,945 124,316 153,813
Tax provision 833,191 979,5,42 966,173
Final divs. . . 227,075 297,125 297,125
£31,106,184 £34,191,985 £37,141,289
Fixed assets .. V 511.270 650,765 703,754
Shares . . 42,344 40,569 35,618
11.-p. debtors,
loans, etc. .. 29,978,957 33,381,015 36,316,873
Cash, bonds, etc. 511,344 119,636 85,044
Suspense a/c.. 62,269
£31,106,184 £34,191,985 £37,141,289
Repayments were also partly responsible
for the total amount owing by h.-p. and
sundry debtors (up £2,935,858) increasing
at a slower rate, the £672,025 added to
unearned income being more in line with
the higher turnover but reflecting also
some extension in repayment terms.
Although the total amount owing to
finance cos. under h.-p. agreements con-
tinues to grow (increasing by 3.8 p.c. over
the five months to August 31 last) the
major cos. have, at least, adequate funds
available, the situation tending to reduce
the rates of interest applying to both hirers
and lenders with the 1 p.c. stamp-duty
on h.-p. contracts made in New South
Wales, Victoria and Tasmania having
more effect on earnings than the limits


on hiring-charges imposed recently by
the N.S.W. Government.
News of A.G.C.’s link with the ’Wales
sent bids for the co.’s f.-p. £1 ords. to
565. last month, but the scrip is currently
offering at 455. 9d. to give buyers at that
price a yield of £6 11s. 2d. p.c. from a 15
p.c. div. Net tangible backing (consoli-
dated accounts) at June 30 last was
445. 6d., excluding subsidiary provisions
for unexpired risks.
fr.. . —j
Ducon Condenser, Ltd.
INITIALLY hesitant, the demand for
TV-receivers strengthened notably
during the last term, unleashing produc-
tive resources which the electronics in-
dustry generally has been amassing for
gome years:—’
Australian Production of
Television-receivers.
Month. Cumulative.
1955-56 9 2,640
July (1956) ... 3,100 5,740
August .. 4,420 10,160
September ... 6‘,250 16,410
October .. 9,310 25,720
November -.,. 12,880 38,600
December 10,450 49,050
January (1957) .. 7,330 56,380
February .. 10,860 67,240
March .. .. 12,370 79,610
April .« .. 13,260 92,870
May .« ... 18,790 111,660
June .. 17,540 129,200
Continuance of this trend, which latest
figures support, will increasingly repay the
anticipatory outlay of component-
manufacturers, not only in the form of
larger turnovers, but also by the creation
of a relatively stable market for replace-
ment-parts, thus providing a firmer basis
for stock-building.
Ducon Condensers, Ltd., manufactures
primarily capacitors, the generic term
for an extensive range of products which
find application in most branches of
electronics — inter alia, P.F. correction,
interference-suppression, auto - ignition,
fluorescent-lighting, etc. However, radio
and television provide the major outlet
for the co.’s production, the more so
since the recent relaxation in N.S.W. and
Victoria of ordinances requiring P.F. cor-
rection of fluorescent-lighting units has
restricted a hitherto not-inconsiderable
market.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1932 as a
proprietary co. with a paid-up capital of
£5OOO, Ducon was converted to a public
basis in 1946. In the intervening period,
all profits were used in developing the
business. Thenceforth expansion has
been rapid, paid-up capital in the 1957
term reaching a figure of £724,500, com-
pared with £304,500 in 1953 and £148,775
in 1947. Reserve-growth has been more
than proportionate with these increases.
During the last decade three cos.,
Simplex Products Pty., Ltd., Mica Pro-
ducts Pty., Ltd., and Ducon (N.Z.), Ltd.,
became fully-owned subsidiaries, and in
1956 a majority-holding was acquired in
Ducon Geheral Ceramics Pty., Ltd., a new
co. formed under the terms of an agree-
ment with General Ceramic Corn.
(U.S.A.). y
Further agreements with Compagnie
Generate de T6l6graphie sans Fil (France)
and Leland Instruments of London (Eng-
land), granting Ducon the exclusive manu-
facturing and selling rights in Australasia
of the former co.’s ceramic condenser
products, and with International General
Electric Co. (U.S.A.), Western Electric
Co. (U.S.A.), Aerovox Corp. (U.S.A.), and
P. R. Mallory and Co., Inc. (U.S.A.), have
contributed in no small measure to the
co.’s progress.
Of particular note was the agreement
entered into in 1954 with P. R. Mallory
and Co. Pty., Ltd., a wholly-
owned subsidiary of P. R. Mallory
and Co., Inc., whereby Ducon
Condensers, Ltd., obtained exclusive
rights in Australia and New Zea-
land for the manufacture and distri-
bution of Mallory’s electrical products.
In consideration, Ducon allotted P. R.
Mallory and Co. Pty., Ltd., 136,000 10s.
ords. at a premium of 2s. 3d., dividend-
payments being deferred until Dec. 31,
1956.
In the quinquennium 1953-57, the div.-
rate has been maintained comfortably at
10 p.c.
Last term brought a not-unexpected
improvement, net profit more than doub-
ling to £145,542 (representing a return of
23.4 p.c. on average ord. capital and 12.2
p.c. on shareholders’ funds) after a con-
servative £142,451 tax-provision. The
10 p.c. div. absorbed £62,217, and, with
the minor pref. div., left £77,826 to swell
reserves:—
Parent and Subsidiaries.
N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. serves.*
5i p.e. 10 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
Tax underprovided, £2182 .. .. 61,555
Loss sal4 fixed assets, £33 .. .. 61,522
1953 .. 40,639 5500 20,400 14,739 76,261
Tax underprovided, £BOB .. .. 75,453
Preliminary expenses w/off, £75 .. 75,378
Profit sale fixed assets, £725 .. 76,103
Premiums on share-issues, £15,300.. 91,403
1954 .. 79,114 5500 20,400 53,214 144,617
Tax underprovided, £283 .. .. 144,334
Intangibles written-off, £7097 .. 137,237
Profit sale fixed assets, £36,709 .. 173,946
Premiums on share-issues, £34,000. . 207,946
1955 . . 82,246 5500 > 28,900 47,846 255,792
Tax overprovided, £361 .. ~ 256,153
Profit sale fixed assets, £61,939 .. 318,092
Intangibles written-off, £459 .. 317,633
Premiums on share-issues, £51,781.. 369,414
1956 . . 71,961 5500 44,566 21,595 391,009
Tax overprovided, £753 .. .. 391,762
Loss sale fixed assets, £lO6 .. .. 391,656
Intangibles written-off, £156 .. 391,500
Premiums on share-issues, £7Bl .. 392,281
1957 .. 145,542 5500 62,217 77,826 470,107
* Subject to intangibles, £65,784 at 30/6/’57.
Ducon’s propensity to expand is reflected
in the accounts for the three years
up to June 30, 1956, the percentage of net
profit to ordinary paid-up capital falling
from 27.1 p.c. in 1954 to 18.8 p.c. and
10.7 p.c. in 1955 and 1956 respectively.
In the same period the percentages on
average ordinary capital were 36.1 p.c.,
26.5 p.c., and 14.1 p.c.
This decline was mainly due to the
rapid intake of new capital, but the in-
evitable dislocation of. staff and produc-
tion attending the removal of the parent
co.’s factory-site from Waterloo to Villa-
wood, Sydney, and diversion of funds for
a research and developmental programme
in anticipation of the TV market also
played their part. Nonetheless, turnover
for the last last financial year shows a
176 p.c. increase on the 1953 term.
Balance-sheet figures for the past three
years indicate current trends:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref. ... „ £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord. 408,000 621,375 624,500
Reserves .. .. 255,792 391,009 470,107
Outside interests,. 8,291 15,164
Mortgages .. 149,190 182,330 177,970
Overdraft .. .. 101,428 140,984 191,825
Creditors .. .. 224,235 175,502 277,043
Tax provision 53,060 69,848 142,451
Final dividend 19,750 27,830 33,897
£1,319,746 £1,698,878 £2,032,957
Land, buildings .. 298,600 346,699 342,432
Plant .. ... 203,752 307,071 409,032
Stocks .. .. 540,812 711,156 851,383
Debtors .. .. 214,080 271,487 363,044
Cash „ .. 718 681 1,282
Intangibles .. 61,784 61,784 65,784
£1,319,746 £1,698,878 £2,032,957
New share-issues, mostly at a premium of
2s. 6d. a share, have brought paid-up
capital to £724,500, the increase being
£420,500 over the past four years. These
additional funds were required to equip
the new Leightonfield works (freeholds
and plant are up £293,711 and £299,591
respectively on the 1953 figure), but,
being apparently insufficient to meet the
growing company’s requirements, a loan
of £135,000 was negotiated in 1955,
secured on freeholds.
In addition, bank-overdraft reached
£191,825 in the 1957 term, compared with
£65,278 in 1953. However, working-
capital at £606,961 seems adequate, given
a brisk stock-turnover.
Intangibles, £65,784, include patents
and trade-marks valued at £49,799, and,
in consequence of the agreement between
Ducon and Mallory, should tend to play
a diminishing role in the co.’s reserve
position.
Sharemarket confidence in Ducon’s
prospects is reflected in the current
’Change quotation of 21s. 6d. for a 10s.
ord. to return the rather moderate yield
of 4.6 p.c. Net tangible asset-backing is
£ll ss. 9d. for each £1 prefund 16s. 6d.
for each 10s. ord.
Dunlop Rubber Australia, Ltd.
in Dunlop Rubber
have moved further into the picture
since the co. completed its big post-war
expansion programme three or four years
ago, last term seeing another small
increase in the ord. div.-rate despite a
slight contraction in net profit.
The largest manufacturer of rubber
products in Australia, Dunlop Rubber
Australia, Ltd., was formed in 1920 after
the third reconstruction of a co. origin-
ally registered in 1899 to take over the
Australian rights and interests of the
English Dunlop Rubber Co. The English
co. obtained a large shareholding in 1927,
and two years later both Perdriau Rubber
Co. and Barnet Glass Rubber Co. were
absorbed. With the development of new
products numerous subsidiaries have been
added to the group, which now operates
more than 20 factories, most of which
are in N.S.W. and Victoria.
The manufacture of all types of rubber-
tyres provides Dunlop with over two-
thirds of its total income, but the group
also turns out automotive batteries and
wheel-brakes,- footwear, clothing, water-
proof garments, sporting-equipment and
industrial plastics as well as an extensive


THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
sa,
w
of the FAMILY
As guardian of the family’s money and as
its financial guide and counsellor, the Bank
is a trusted friend.
This Bank’s experience and friendly
advice are available to those who seek them.
Its many extra services can help every
member of your family.
The Bank’s subsidiary, the C.B.C.
Savings Bank Limited, can help the family
to save for the things it needs. A
savings account encourages
the youngsters to cultivate
the saving habit while
it makes their money
grow.
£
it
*
JV
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
■JDgFOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANY
range of rubber and synthetic-
rubber products.
In 1955, 370,032 f.-p. £1
shares were issued in exchange
for the share-capital of Ken-
worth Rubber, Ltd., the trans-
action increasing paid capital to
its present total of £7,798,980,
of which £930,000 carries a
cumulative 10 p.c. New scrip
was offered to shareholders on
a one-for-four basis in 1950,
at a 50 p.c. premium, and again
in 1952 at a 374 p.c. premium.
The rapid growth of the
organisation over the past 10
years has been partly financed
from retained earnings and, to
ensure that adequate funds
were available from this source,
the ord. div.-rate was held at
8 p.c. from 1947 until 1953,
rising, with the overall improve-
ment in earnings and a decline
in the rate of capital expendi-
ture, to 84 p.c. in 1954, 9 p.c.
in 19J6 and 94 p.c, last term.
Although the demand fell for
tyres, batteries, etc., as initial
equipment on new motor-
vehicles last term (to June 30),
group turnover improved by
almost £lO million to a record
£45 million. However, keen
competition pushed up selling-
expenses and narrowed profit-
margins, net earnings slipping
by £20,340 to £1,279,885 after
providing £816,219 (down
£3176) for depreciation and
£1,051,139 (down £3778) for
taxation:
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
Net f Dividends N Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ovd. Total, serves.f
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
Tax overprovided, £9035 .. 2,776,680
Reduction intangibles, £9O. 2,776,770
Unexp. increase, £34,970.. 2,811,740
’53.. 754,679 10 8 600,000 2,966,419
From special stock reserve,
£lOO,OOO .. ..3,066,419
To contingencies reserve,
£163,396 .. ..3,229,815
Added intangibles, £537 .. 3,229,278
’54..1,100,975 10 81 631,687 3,698,566
Unexp. additions, £123,550. 3,822,116
Added intangibles, £895.. 3,821,221
’55..1,072,330 10 81 645,410 4,248,141
Reduct’n intangibles, £928. 4,249,069
Profit sale assets, etc.,
£171,909 4,420,978
’56..1,300,225 10 9 711,208 5,009,995
To provision long-service
leave, £249,300 ...4,760,695
Intangibles \v/off, £42,180. 4,718,515
Profit sale assets, £116,469. 4,834,984
’57.-1,279,885 10 91 745,553 5,369,316
* After deducting outside interests,
f After deducting goodwill, etc. (now
£731,543).
Despite the small lift in the
ord. div.-rate, over 41 p.c. of
the profit was retained in the
business, earnings covering the
10 p.c. pref. div. and 17.2 p.c.
on ord. capital, compared with
17.5, 15, 15.9 and 10.4 p.c. in
the four preceding terms. Pro-
vision for long-service leave,
chargeable against the earnings
of preceding years, was raised
to an appropriate total by the
transfer of £249,300 from
reserves, this transfer, together
with the writing-off of £42,180
of share-premiums (paid when


MSUMi-m Bill
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
f
Prices from
29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
e 0 II f 11 • T I « I I T ft • ft . I Tft. tft « ft ft »
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN RODHAM VINCENT late of
Kingsgrove. —TAKE NOTICE that
ELVIE ISABLE VINCENT has filed
Petition No. 2581 of 1957 for Divorce
on the ground of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause
or excuse If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 2'3rd December 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. C. PAYNTER, Solicitor,
of 107 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant super-
vision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring: Street, SYDNEY BIT 3445
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
acquiring shares in certain
subsidiaries) and a £116,469
capital-profit, leaving the net
addition to reserves at £359,321.
Expenditure on fixed assets was
on a smaller scale than in the
preceding term, a net £458,139
(against £1,362,936) being
added to their book-value (1928
valuation or costs, less depre-
ciation), new buildings and
extensions to existing premises
being responsible for most of
the increase:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957.
Paid capital.. £7,798,980 £7,798.980
Reserves .. 5,741,538 6,100,859
Outside interest 22,421 22,416
Debentures, etc. 1,482,500 1,382,500
Deposits .. 400,000
Overdraft .. 2,137,396 1,147,443
Sundry-creditors 2,322,673 2,740,082
Staff fund .. 50,000 392,004
Tax reserve .. 1,287,522 1,114,481
Final div. .. 413,585 413,560
£21,256,615 £21,512,325
Freeholds, etc. 4,324,469 4,742,771
Plant, etc. .. 3,991,007 4,030,844
Stocksf .. 7,611,668 7,394,082
Debtors .. 4,542,024 4,556,419
Investments ~ 49,419 49,419
Cash, etc. .. 6.485 7,247
Intangibles .. 731,543 731,543
£21,256,615 £21,512,325
f After deducting special reserve,
£200,000.
To cover the capital-outlay,
the £lOO,OOO repayment due
under the mortgage-loan and
a substantial cut in the over
draft (down £989,953), the co.
supplemented retained earnings
with a short-term deposit-loan
of £400,000 and stretched the
amount owing to creditors by
£417,409, an additional £217,586
coming from a small reduction
in stocks. At the end of the
term working-capital was a
shade lower at £5,750,178
(down £198,823).
Trading conditions seem
likely to remain strongly com-
petitive in the current term,
but a high level of turnover
should be maintained, the
group’s wide and expanding
range of products enabling it to
supply an increasingly large
market, while the number of
motor-vehicles in use continues
to increase, despite a slacken-
ing in the rate of growth.
Although the Tariff Board
has rejected an application for
increased protection for locally
manufactured tyres and tubes,
a small reduction in raw-
material costs will result from
adjustments to the rates of
duty payable on imported
rubber.
At 355. the f.-p. £1 ords.
would return £5 Bs. 7d. p.c.
from a 9j p.c. distribution or
£5 14s. 3d. p.c. if the rate were
raised to 10 p.c., the prefs.
yielding £6 Is. 3d. p.c. at 335.
Consolidated accounts show a
net tangible backing of 335. 9d.
for the ords. and £l4 3s. 2d.
for the prefs., which participate
in any surplus assets on liquida-
tion.
Peko Mines, Ltd.
T>EKO’S efforts to increase
production from its
Tennant Creek (N.T.) copper-
mine met with considerable
success last term, but the steep
fall in copper prices robbed
the co. of most of its profit-
margin, both interim and final
divs. being passed-over.
Anxious to take advantage
of the high prices offering at
the time, Peko boosted its out-
put of copper-concentrates by
over 150 p.c. in the 1955-56
term, following-up with a
further 30 p.c. improvement
last term. Extensions to plant
now in progress will enable the
co., which handles some of
the richest copper-ore in Aus-
tralia, to reach a throughput of
400 tons a day by the end of
this year, giving an annual
metal production of close to
10,000 tons. Although this is
well below Mt. Isa’s output it
would make the co. the
second-largest copper-producer
in the country.
Last term the mill handled
72,359 tons (up 21,359 tons) of
ore averaging 7.81 p.c. copper
(against 8.54 p.c. in the previous
term) for an extra 4967 tons of
concentrates: —.
rr Assa y v
Copper, Gold, Silver,
Year. Tons. p.c. Oz. Oz.
1055 .. 6,465 23.56 0.52 1.5
1956 .. 16,321 25.09 0.52 1.5
1957 .. 21,288 25.0 0.47 1.5
Processed at Port Kembla by
Electrolytic Refining and Smelt-
ing Co., the 21,288 tons of con-
centrate (25 p.c. copper) yielded
5323 tons of copper metal (up
1228 tons) and larger quantities
of both gold (up 16040 z.) and
silver (up 75400 z.):
Copper, Gold, Silver,
Year. Tons. Oz. Oz.
1955 .. .. 1,523 3,359 12,210
1956 .. ... 4,095 8,496 24,482
1957 .. .. 5,323 10,100 31,932
The co. exported 3322 tons of
the 5323 tons produced, but
export prices fell to a greater
extent than the local price, and,
after deducting freight and
treatment charges, but includ-
ing proceeds from the sale of
related gold and silver, the
average price received slumped
from £285 12s. lOd. to
£153 2s. sd. per ton, total
revenue drop p in g from
£1,966,928 to £1,760,821.
Transport costs, one of the
co.’s chief problems, worked
out at £118.5 a ton of copper
metal (up £10.2), mining-
costs at £83.4 (up £2.4), and
refining- and smelting-charges,
etc., at £59.3 (down £37):
Revenue— 1956. 1957.
Mine .. .. £1,966,928 £1,760,821
Sundry .. 1,008 1,506
£1,967,936 £1,762,327
Mining costs .. 331,691 443,826
Transport . . 402,839 630,885
Refining charges 394,438 314,897
Expenses . .' 58,797 69,391
Exploration .. 51,498 24,776
Depreciation, etc. 166,058 147,669
Prov. deferred tax 140,000 43,000
£1,545,321 £1,674,444
Net profit .. £422,615 £87,883
Divs 313,361
Mining profit fell by £466,747
to £371,213, the net profit
claimed by the co. shrinking by
£334,732 to £87,883 after
charging £147,669 (down
£18,389) for depreciation and
redemption, £24,776 (down
£26,722) for exploration and
£43,000 (down £97,000) for
deferred taxation. The earn-
ings equalled 11.1 p.c. of the
£787,500 paid capital, all of
which is in f.-p. 2s. 6d. ords.
The sharp fall in income,
coupled with a heavy outlay
on plant, development, etc.
(£679,906), left the co. in a
rather tight financial position,
total liabilities, including
£183,000 for deferred taxation,
exceeding current assets by
£279,193 at balance-date (June
27 last). Fixed assets were in
the accounts at £1,384,234 and
mine development, leases, etc.,
at £321,403, provisions for
redemption, etc., reducing the
combined total to £1,241,480
(up £417,042).
Proved ore-reserves jumped
from 207,000 tons to 566,500
tons over the term, but the
average grade fell from 9.9 p.c.
to 8.16 p.c. copper. Indicated
reserves were estimated at
605,500 tons going 5 p.c.
copper, the total, 1,172,000 tons,
being enough to provide a
throughput of 400 tons a day
for approximately nine years.
The board indicated some
time ago that it was contempla-
ting the erection of a plant to
treat the concentrates produced,
but until there is some improve-
ment in copper prices, little
progress can be expected in
this direction. The recom-
mendations of the Tariff Board
on the question of assistance to
copper-producers is expected to
be known by the end of this
year ; meanwhile, the co. hopes
to sell a bigger percentage of
its output in the current term
on the more favorable local
market.
Bringing 10s. a year ago, the
f.-p. 2s. 6d. stock-units in Peko
last sold at 4s. Id.


Largest Australian Coy
Conducting all classes of
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
bstab’isbed 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
qSULUVAM
- pmTo v
TRAOE^B» ,>g MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS A OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
long-range, and all of them
costly.
One thing is certain, and it
was even plainer to me this
time I was in North Queens-
land : The urge to “get going”
is strong, local pride is high.
We see it expressed in move-
ments for the creation of new
States. Whatever the Consti-
tutional difficulties ahead of
those who. would like to see the
formation of new States, we can
admire the sprit that stirs them.
It is healthy, positive ; a denial
of the fallacy that whatever
tided us over yesterday will be
good enough for tomorrow.
It is a spirit that can be
encouraged in other ways than
the outright chartering of New
States. There seems to me to
be every sensible reason, for
instance, why local authorities
should be given the fullest
possible powers for administer-
ing and financing development
within their areas. To my
mind, it would be the best and
most practical means of loosen-
ing those straps of centralisa-
tion that are tightening round
Australia with the passing of
every year.
Meanwhile, we are faced with
the fact that the States are
entities in the Commonwealth
system: for public borrowing,
for private investment, for the
powers of Government that
make development possible.
And the core of it all is finance.
Without that—and we would be
wise to admit it we only
gamble with time and toy with
a priceless opportunity.
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
AN advantage of living in
Europe is that you can get
clean away from things. You
can board a plane at London
Airport and in two hours or so
be making your way from
Zurich or Milan to some
beauty-spot which, because it is
warm, sunny and, above all,
foreign, gives you a fortnight
of delightful and unashamed
escapism.
England, as usual, has had a
bad summer. Leaving behind
a dank and coldish autumn, you
wear summer clothes, get
tanned by the sun, walk through
vineyards and among sub-
tropical vegetation. You enjoy
exotic scenery, drink wine
cheaply and, because you
barely understand the language
and don’t search out an English
newspaper, haven’t an inkling
of what’s going on in the world.
A perfect holiday, in fact.
Or very nearly so. You
can’t help but notice that prices
in Switzerland, which were so
outrageous three or four years
before, now seem fairly reason-
able, and you must ask yourself
why. Has the cost-of-living at
home increased as fantastically
as all that? It has indeed. You
can’t fail to notice the sub-
merged poverty and unemploy-
ment in Italy, nor overlook the
fact that your temporary sur-
roundings, so idyllic and
tranquil, were, only twelve
years ago, the final scene of a
dictator’s squalid undoing and
grisly slaughter.
And, inescapably, urgent and
desperate news from home
breaks through. That increase
in bank-rate. What does it
mean?,
Point of Return
Immediately, it impresses on
you that there is really no
escape-route, except to the un-
thinking or. to the romantic.
So, as a commentator, you
found yourself puzzling out the
cause and effect while climbing
a mountain in a funicular.
Others may have been less dis-
passionate. The small business-
man, already unable to secure
enough capital, might have
been in a state of despair, his
peace of mind shattered. An
immediate telephone-call on the
part of the stock-jobber might
have portended heavy financial
loss, perhaps failure. The
thrifty professional man,
scanning the stock - prices,
would not have been far out
in assessing his depreciation at
10 per cent, or more. The
family-man, who on demobili-
sation bought his house on
mortgage at 3| per cent, in
1946, .would prepare himself
for a further increase to double
that rate. Only the housewife,
struggling impotently against
the rising cost-of-living, could
take a longer view, saying: “If
this really does stop inflation,
then it will be for the benefit of
us all.”
On returning home, there
were further price-increases to
be assimilated. An “adjust-
ment” in stages on the buses.
Dearer newspapers and
journals, struggling against
increased production-costs. And
higher postal charges (with, of
course, reduced services) so
that post-office employees
could be paid salaries “com-
parable with those in industry.”
What Consequences?
Such is the background,
necessarily sketchy and in-
complete, of Britain after the
bank-rate increase and during
the political conferences. How
will it all turn out?
Granted that this sudden and
desperate measure was
aggravated by the flight from
sterling, the increasing strength
of the German mark and the
devaluation of the franc, there
is a strong feeling that it need
never have happened had the
Government been determined,
and able, to restrain wages-
costs inflation.
It would now seem that,
after trying every expedient,
there is no option but some
measure of the kind of deflation
which the Government has
sedulously tried to avoid. The
trade - unions, under the
explosive and single-minded
leadership of Mr. Cousins,
appear to have but one objec-
tive —to wage a bitter war of
aggrandisement against Capi-
talism.
The new so-called “restric-
tion in the supply of money” is
bound to have its effect.
Because money for expansion
is unobtainable more profits
will have to be ploughed back,
restricting dividends as well as
productivity. At best, there
could be some cutting-down of
overtime (often considered as
“going with the job”) and,
possibly, even a degree of un-
employment. - There may also
be —and no bad thing, either —
a testing period for some of
the less efficient concerns at
present sheltered by trade asso-
ciations.
How long will the emergency
last? Some say three months,
some at least six. But the
general opinion is that the
Government means business.
The consequences to the
broad structure of finance and
industry are another matter.
It is sufficient to say that,
immediately, the problems are
immense. Vickers, for example,
need £29 million for “planned
and partly-realised” expansion,
and were old-fashioned enough
to invite their shareholders to
supply the money. In the event,
the underwriters were left with
83.4 per cent, of the £lO-million
loan stock and the “rights”
value of the £l9 million new
ordinary shares was virtually
nil.
Without the bank - rate
announcement the response
would have been as successful
as the recent Esso issue. It is
hardly surprising, in view of
the somersaulting upheaval,
that Mr. Thorneycroft’s name
in the City is only a little less
unpopular than Dr. Dalton’s.


A Warm Kitchen and Communal Books
The Making' of a Reader
By T. M. HOGAN
IN the moving human docu-
ment De Profundis, Oscar
Wilde says “If I may not
' write beautiful books, I
may at least read beautiful
books ; and what joy can be
greater?”
Overseas book-publishers are
fond of telling us that this
country is among the world’s
readers. If they speak of
quantity they may be right,
Tlie reader of good books that
stimulate the mind that can be
taken up and. read at intervals
eommon P ‘ eaSUre ’ “ "° “
_ ' t
Some are bom readers, others
owe their love of reading to
early influence by wise elders.
There are those who read
because it is necessary in their
vocation. The great majority,
however, have a taste for books
which emphasise sex, booze and
crime. The display at any
bookstall proves this. The
rewards for turning out a fast-
written thriller are far in excess
of that earned by the writer of
a soundly constructed novel.
It was my fortunate lot to be
the last born in a large family,
To this, and the fact that the-
family was Irish and turbulent,
I owe an abiding pleasure in
reading. The old folk set great
store on education, which in
their day was not available to
the middle- and working-class
to the extent and quality it was
in mine,
By the time I was word-
conscious, the rest of the family
were past school-age. My
eldest sister, who died in her
twent j e s , ’was the gifted
brilliant musician and
isj writer It was her
initiative and influence that
made readers of the rest of the
family
, , , ,
„ P eo * ,le ke P‘ ,he hotel at
Conara, a railway - junction
village in the Tasmanian mid-
lands. There were about 14
houses there then, all but two
occupied by railway employees,
There was no lack of people,
however the famous and
infamous had to break the
journey from the main line to
the east-coast line. Molor-
cars, like moving-pictures, were
yet to come. Radio and tele-
vision were undreamed of. It
was, therefore, inevitable that
such a large family should pro-
vide its own entertainment.
'"THE scheme was simple, as
all great things are. Start-
ing with a meeting of the entire
clan, it was decided that each
member contribute threepence
each week for the purchase of
books. These were to be read
in the big, warm kitchen on
Saturday nights.
Threepence was a large sum
at that time, the mid-1890’s, to
youngsters. It could buy all
manner of good things. When
it is remembered that most of
the confections like brandy-
balls, all-day suckers and the
like were two or four a penny,
threepence was not {o be
sneezed at by any country child.
However, by various activities,
from washing-up for the older
girls, cleaning the family boots
—no shoes then —with the toil-
some Day and Martin’s black-
ing, to rabbitskins and the sale
of young rosellas and other
cage-birds, tbe younger fry
managed to keep financial. In
the last resort, straight-out
blackmail was resorted to.
Books were bought
regularly. Tn turn we listened
with rapt interest to For The
Term of His Natural Life,
Robbery Under Arms, the Law-
son stories and poems from
The Bulletin ; Adam Lindsay
Gordon, Ethel Turner, Mark
Twain, Sir Walter Scott,
Charles Dickens ... To vary
the literary diet, Sweeney Todd
the Fleet Street Barber and
suchlike were read, and pro-
vided outsize nightmares for
impressionable youngsters.
A USTRALIAN authors were
first favorites, for they
wrote about things and people
known in our own experience.
Poetry, of course, appealed to
those whose education had
failed to make readers of them.
The necessity to earn a living
when wages were as low as five,
10 and 15 shillings a week with
keep, and the poor educational
facilities prevailing, had left the
older members of the family
able to write understandable
letters and to read the daily
paper. Poetry could be
memorised and was thus a
source of much pleasure.
The night “How We Beat the
Favorite” was read, my eldest
brother, Biff, an inter-State
shearer among other things,
was so greatly taken with it
that he laboriously copied out
the verses, and by diligent
rehearsal at all hours he
became word-perfect. He also
plugged away until he could
recite three pther swinging
poems read from The
Bulletin from time to time.
When brother Bill, in that
pleasant hour when tired
shearers are lying on their
bunks after a good meal, broke
loose with his quartet of
poems, the performance had to
be heard to be believed. No
matter, it made him a prime
favorite, and he was a definite
gainer from the Saturday-night
readings.
With the progress of time,
the ambitions of the members
culminated in the formation of
a Literary and Dramatic Club ;
same weekly threepence. The
club was known as “The
Cadger’s Club,” after a big
tame kangaroo who roamed the
(Continued on page 57)


A Short Story
The Happy Peasant
By MAUREEN LUSON
MYRNA stood in the
middle of the lounge
wearing a disastrous
pink - taffeta frock ;
she was a rather plump school-
girl with superfluous hands and
a poking chin.
“You look very sweet, dear,”
said Mrs. Ecclestone, mentally
checking details of her
daughter’s appearance—a dust-
ing of pink powder, a little,
very pale lipstick, no mascara
or eyebrow - pencil, well-
brushed hair, clean neck and
nails.
“Very sweet,” she repeated
with satisfaction. “And very
suitable,” she added, without
meaning to be in the least
unkind. She stepped back and
bent to see that Myrna’s stock-
ing-seams were straight, and
that no arc of lace below the
hem of the frock suggested the
presence of the frilled petticoat.
Myrna bore the scrutiny with
an expression of adenoidal
resignation.
“You won’t forget to thank
Mr. and Mrs. Ridgeweather
politely, dear? And you won’t
be home a second later than
midnight, will you?”
“No, Mot h e r.” Myrna
scratched her arm furtively.
Mrs. Ecclestone raised her
eyebrows, smiled, shook her
head, and Myrna stopped
scratching guiltily.
Mr. Ecclestone said: “Well,
doesn’t Daddy’s little girlie
look grown-up tonight?”
Myrna made a strangled,
breathy noise.
Mrs. Ecclestone now turned
to the tall youth who sat upon
the extreme edge of the sofa
as if he expected it to be
detonated beneath him at any
moment:
“I know you’ll take good
care of Myrna, Des.”
He stretched stiff lips into a
sickly grin: “Sure.”
“Got decent brakes on the
bus?” inquired Mr. Eccle-
stone.
“Aw —sure.” The words
came up from Des’s throat as if
played by a phonograph.
“Of course, I don’t have to
remind you to drive carefully,”
trilled Mrs. Ecclestone.
Beneath her expansive beam,
Des twitched convulsively, his
eyes darting from side to side,
seeking escape from it. The
phonograph played another
cracked, disconnected series of
sounds:
“Sure you don’t, Mrs. Eccle-
stone.”
“Well, then, good-bye, dear.”
Mrs. Ecclestone kissed
Myrna’s flaccid cheek, con-
triving also to tweak a limp curl
“If only the rain Would stop We could see whether
there ARE any mushrooms .”
forward to hide an incipient
pimple. “Have a lovely, lovely
time.”
T'iES was galvanised into
precipitate action; he
shot off the sofa, knocking over
a small table, plunged across
the room, grabbed Myrna’s
white fur cape, and shovelled it
awkwardly round her. He
succeeded in crushing the pink-
carnation corsage pinned to it,
and in displacing the curl.
Mrs. Ecclestone flew r to
remedy the damage; Myrna
endured tweakings, pullings,
pattings, brushings, and small,
tweeted remarks: “There!
That’s better! That’s right!
Stand up straight—there!”
Des shuffled his feet, rammed
his hands into his pockets, and
studied first the ceiling, and
then the carpet.
“Oh ... have you got a clean
handkerchief, dear?” hissed
Mrs. Ecclestone.
“Yes, Mother. G’bye.
G’bye, Daddy,”
“Good-bye, pet. And don’t
break too many hearts. Keep
your eye on the road, son.”
“Sure.” Des tripped over a
rug, rattled the door-handle,
got the door open, and
remembered to stand back for
Myrna; Mrs. Ecclestone went
out, too.
Des mumbled: “See y*
sometime” to no one in
particular, and slammed the
door.
Mr. Ecclestone heaved a
long, relieved sigh, and unfolded
the evening-paper.
Mrs. Ecclestone came back
into the lounge, clasping her
hands on her diaphragm, and
flung a tight-lipped smile at
her husband.
“Now, Alice you’ve got
indigestion again! I told you
not to eat those prawns”
“Oh, Gilbert! Haven’t you
any sensibility? Doesn’t the
sight of those two innocent
children do something to you?”
“Yes. It makes me wonder
why, over any social niceties,
they have to behave like
marine mammals inadvertently
stranded in the middle of the
Gobi.”
“Their shyness makes them
inarticulate and clumsy, poor
sweets. But I didn’t mean that.
I meant don’t you ever
remember your own first
buddings of love?”
“I do. I remember putting
sulphur-ointment on them, too.”
“Oh, Gilbert really! I
didn’t mean acne; I meant the
time you held my hand in the
Botanical Gardens. All you
said was ‘Swans look silly
walking.’ That wasn’t exactly
articulate, was it?”
“Well, if I was inarticulate
thein Des is subhuman ; he only
makes noises.”
“He’s a nice, steady boy. I
don’t know that I’d trust one
of those swift talkers; they’re
the ones who put all kinds of
wrong ideas into girls’ heads.
Des doesn’t have any ideas,
let alone wrong ones. He
always brings Myma home
punctually. And besides, he’s
falling in love with her.”
Mrs. Ecclestone picked up
her knitting and made fierce
stabs with the needles.
“I wouldn’t be surprised if
little Myrna had her first kiss
to-night.”
She sighed ecstatically, and
the knitting dropped into her
lap.
Mr. Ecclestone, feeling that
the .conversation was leading
up to subjects beyond his
knowledge and jurisdiction,
retired behind the double-page
spread of the evening-paper.
TN the car, now well beyond
the fringe of inner suburbs,
Des had settled his left arm
round Myrna’s shoulders, and
his right elbow on the rim of
the open window. He drove
with a thumb, three fingers, and
great good-luck.
A change had come over
Des; gone were the twitching,
the impediment in his throat,
(Continued on. page 49)


New
RED
I
developed by
Ampol!
m
t •
S8Sfc«888&»s*«r-.-....
nrmmmhi
1
ms
H
vi-:
i ;
li
H
i
■
V-
'* US',, - - V
ii
.V.s■
m
/V*
< « „ >.
'/ ? li ” !s n* .
■.
d -
mßKHmk * 1
* m .' '. *;
, . ! JB . *»
K
» ..* ■
m
&« ■-
m
: -»-
■ vi
x:::; -. • *
jj
■
, ■*.•
Pumps freely offer 36 hours at -2° F.... still stable after 48 hours in boiling
water! Ampol Multi-purpose Grease has the very high melt point
of 390° F., providing a wide margin of safety in wheel-bearing
applications where temperatures exceeding F. are seldom
encountered.
One place of many


grease
Ampol Multi-purpose
Grease provides these out-
standing advantages:
Complete protection
resists heat, cold, water,
rust and corrosion.
Prevents misapplication of
lubricants.
Maintenance and store-
keeping simplified.
Pumps freely even at low
temperatures.
Coloured red for positive
identification.
*^ ITIUU " owll -^
RMPPL
BELl'i^jaa
«RIAS>
MUITI-PURPO* I
11(0
...So versatile that only one grease is
needed for cars, trucks, tractors, farm
machinery, marine and industrial
equipment
Jmagine —one grease that can be used in the
hottest, coldest or wettest conditions; a multi-
purpose grease that eliminates the need for a wide
range of lubricants in industry, agriculture and
transport.
Such a grease has been developed and is now
produced in Ampol’s own newly constructed grease-
making plant—the most modern and advanced
in Australia to-day.
Test Ampol Multi-purpose Grease any way you
will—on your own car or truck, any equipment old
or new—you’ll find it’s years ahead.
AMPOL
multi-purpose
GREASE


A DIRTY WIND BLOWING
SEVERE things have been said about
conditions on the Australian water-
front, but there has never been any
suggestion of the existence of a state of
affairs approaching that of the New York
docks, where extortion, protection-
rackets and standover-tactics have made
the waterfront an annexe of gangland.
Two years ago the president of the
International Longshoremen’s Association
was fined 2500 dollars and sentenced to
six months’ jail for having received 2500
dollars from a carrying-company in
violation of the Taft-Hartley law which
forbids a union - representative from
receiving gratuities from an employer.
At the same time three other officials of
the I.L.A. were given five years for
extorting 27,000 dollars from the
American Sugar Refining Company in a
waterfront settlement.
No one who knew anything about the
set-up on the American waterfront was
surprised at the charges ; the novelty lay
in the fact that convictions were obtained.
The racketeers had ruled the wharves for
so long. Of course, nothing like that
could happen here —we hope.
A Union “Rule”
At the present time a committee of
the A.C.T.U. is investigating charges
that the officials of some maritime
unions have received payments from
shipowners in circumstances which both
parties to the transaction prefer to keep
quiet about. The charges were not made
by an irresponsible person, but by a
judge of the Federal Arbitration Court.
For many years the Seamen’s Union
(and more recently some other maritime
unions) has been demanding that when
an Australian shipping company builds
or buys a vessel overseas an Australian
crew shall be sent abroad to bring the
ship out to Australia. In numerous cases
where a shipowner has refused to comply
with this demand a “black ban” has been
placed on the ship after its arrival in
Australia, causing considerable financial
loss to the owner. The Seamen’s Union,
under its Communist boss, E. V. Elliott,
further maintains that when an Aus-
tralian ship is sold to overseas owners
it should be delivered to its new owners
by an Australian crew, whose wages will
continue to be paid until they are
repatriated to Australia.
There is no clause in the unions’ award
requiring a shipowner to observe either
of these “rules,” and ordinary logic
suggests that if the fairness of either is
admitted the other must be automatically
excluded. But the otherwise inter-
nationally minded Elliott sees no reason'
to be international in this matter.
Although the union “rule” has no
legality, there was a brief period last year
in which it did wear the respectable garb
of judicial approval. In February, 1956 v
Foster, J., made an order which met both
sides of the union’s claim. This award
was challenged in the High Court, and
the Chief Justice, Sir Owen Dixon,
granted an order nisi setting aside Judge
Foster’s order and saying that it had
been made “without jurisdiction or
authority under either the Conciliation
and Arbitration Act or the Navigation
Act.”
The High Court,ruling does not seem
to have affected the Seamen’s Union
attitude in the slightest. At the present
time the Colonial Sugar Refining Com-
pany’s new Rona is held up in Sydney
because the company refused or omitted
to play ball over the trip out from
England.
A fortnight ago Elliott’s union was
directed by the court to supply a crew,
under pain of a heavy fine or deregistra-
tion. It complied, but the shipwrights’
and marine stewards’ unions immediately
took up the running and withheld their
members, thus extending the ban until
court action could be taken against them.
It was in the course of a court hearing
arising out of a similar ban on the Union
Steamship Company’s Kumalla that
Judge Foster made his allegation that
some shipping companies had been
making secret payments to trade-unions.
The Commonwealth Steamship Owners’
Association issued a definite denial that
it or any of its member-companies had
made such payments.
It is certainly obvious that no payment
was made in relation to the Kumalla or
Rona. Such evidence as does exist
suggests that the payments, if made, were
in connection with vessels sold, not
bought, in which case they would be
made by the new owners, i.e., companies
domiciled outside Australia.
£5OOO a Ship
Judge Foster is reported as saying,
In the case of the Elsanna and the
Caledon, the last ships to tee sold, the
payments amounted to £5OOO, divided
between four unions, the Seamen’s Union,
the Radio Officers, the Cooks and the
Stewards, proportionately to the number
of members normally employed on the ship.
According to Senator McManus, who
attempted on October 9 to have a royal
commission appointed to inquire into
the judge’s statements, Albert Monk,
president of the A.C.T.U., reported on
August 28:
President Monk stated that he was
perturbed at this statement and contacted
the judge, following which he telephoned
Comrade J. Tudehope, secretary of the
Maritime Council, and asked him whether
any of the unions had received money.
Comrade Tudehope answered that there
was no truth in the judge’s statement.
President Monk then contacted Comrade
Elliott, secretary of the Seamen's Union,
and he also reported that there was no
truth in the statement.
The A.C.T.U., said Senator McManus,
was prepared to believe that the judge
had been misled or mistaken, but later
another union official told them that it
was true and that he himself had received
hundreds of pounds. This official,
McDonald of the Marine Stewards’
Union, then told his union that he hadn’t
liked taking the money, and felt the
procedure was against the best interests
of Australian trade-unionism. Since then,
said McManus, McDonald has been
persistently attacked by the Communist
party.
Subsequently both Elliott and W. Bird,
Victorian secretary _of the Seamen’s
Union, admitted the practice. Elliott said
that of 40 ships sold off the coast in
recent years 21 had been manned wholly
or partly by Australians, and 11
outside crews, and indemnities or pay-
ments were received for them. The other
eight presumably “got away.”
Senator McManus said the system was
that the union would permit “cheap over-
seas labor” to be employed provided it
received £125 for each alien seaman
engaged. In the case of one ship so
manned officials of the union had
collected £4125. The total sum so far
admitted was between £20,000 and
£30,000.
What the Senate Said
Senator Spooner told the House there
was no intention of appointing a royal
commission at present. The Government
was deferring action until it saw the
result of the A.C.T.U.’s inquiry. Senator
Kennedy said the report would be
finished this week, and would be con-
sidered by the inter-State executive of
the A.C.T.U. in four or five weeks’ time.
Senators seemed to be of several minds
over the actual nature of the payments.
Senator Wright thought they might be in
breach of the Australian Industries
Preservation Act and the Secret Commis-
sions Act; with a further possibility, if
the money had been used for other than
legitimate union purposes, that a charge
of larceny might arise.
Senator Behn made the assumption
that the arrangement was profitable to
the Overseas Shipping Representatives
Association and that, although unsavory
and repugnant, it was not illegal. He
then enumerated the increases in overseas
freights and fares since 1953, and
advanced the argument that
The sum of £30,000 that allegedly has been
paid by the overseas shipping companies to
the maritime unions fades into insignifi-
cance ; it becomes a mere bagatelle when
compared With the sum that the oversea
shipping interests have gained from the
increase in freights.
Ignoring the queer sense of morality
revealed in this argument and the fact
that most worn-out vessels sold by
Australian ship-owners are bought not
by members of O.S.R.A. but by ship-
breakers or small foreign companies
which seldom enter the Australian trade,
Senator Benn’s basic assumption that the
buyers find it profitable to make the
payments is extraordinarily naive. He
might just as well say that the victims
of Chicago “protection” rackets find it
profitable to pay their “protectors.” A
foreign buyer who wants to take his ship
from Sydney to Hong Kong or Athens
as cheaply as possible has only to
consider the Kumalla or the Rona to
realise how unprofitable it can be not
to pay.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
First Leg In!
At the turn into the straight
in last Saturday’s Caulfield Cup
it looked as if Tulloch would
be yet another good three-year-
old who had found the Cup
beyond him; a few seconds
later, as he swept past the post
two lengths clear of the field,
he had proved himself one of
the greatest colts ever to have
raced in Australasia.
• • • •
The full measure of Tulloch’s
performance was not that his
7.8 set a weight-carrying record
in the race for a three-year-
old ; or that his time of
2.26 9/10 shattered the Aus-
tralian record of 2.27 j jointly
held by Palfresco and t Blue
Ocean ; but that he set these
figures after receiving a buffet-
ing during the race, and
that he went to the line with
plenty in reserve.
Mac’s Amber, with 9.4, who
was hailed the winner as the
field straightened up, ran the
best race of his useful career,
to finish a good second. Sailor’s
Guide (9.6), who would not
know how to run a bad race,
battled near the lead all the
way and hung on to finish
third.
• •] t •
At 6 to 4 on, Tulloch was
the only favorite in the history
of the Caulfield Cup to start
“in the red.” The £BOOO prize-
money, plus the £350 trophy,
lifted his earnings to £40,532|,
and if he stands up to racing,
he could set new stake-winning
figures for an Australian horse
—even before his three-year-
old days are over!
• • • •
Owner E. A. Haley, who
was still too ill to visit Mel-
bourne for the race, bought a
batch of yearlings in New
Zealand, and Tulloch-was the
cheapest of the group!
Neville Sellwood, who
showed all his renowned skill
to extricate Tulloch from
the several scrimmages he
encountered, scored his third
Caulfield Cup success.
Not surprisingly, V.R.C.
handicapper C. Davis gave
Tulloch the full 101 b. penalty,
making his Melbourne Cup
weight 8.4. And, also not
surprising, owner Haley, think-
ing of his champion, had
the scratching-pen in his hand
at time of writing. Weight-
carrying record for a three-
year-old in the big race stands
to the credit of Newhaven, who
scored with 7.13 in 1896.
Now winner of £40,532 in
stakes, Tulloch is one of the
greatest bargains of the sale-
ring: he cost 750gns. as a
yearling at the New Zealand
sales in January of last year,
the bid of his trainer, T. J.
Smith, acting for owner E. A.
Haley. The champion colt’s
sire, Khorassan (imp.), has had
many winners in New Zealand,
including Coleridge (14 firsts
and £18,920 in stakes). A
winner in England at up to a
mile-and-a-half, Khorassan is
by Big Game from Naissa-
pur by Nearco. Florida, dam
of Tulloch, won at up to 11
furlongs; she was got by Sal-
magundi (imp.), from Island
Linnet by Song Bird from
Unawed by Markhope (imp.)
Other winners in the family-
lines include Oklahoma (12
firsts), Meadow Lark (19) and
Ballad (13). Tulloch was foaled
on October 1, 1954, at the Tre-
lawny stud, Cambridge, so on
actual (instead of race-calendar)
birth-date he’s now an ex-
tremely “young” three-year-old
—and hence all the more won-
derful his performance.
• • • •
Advance reports of Breeder’s
Plate winner Mighty Kingdom
were such that few bookmakers
at Caulfield offered a price
about the colt’s chances in the
first Gwyn Nursery. The few
intrepid punters who laid 5 to 1
on the colt must have been
thankful to see the numbers in
the frame. Mighty Kingdom
scooted out of the barrier, and
on the turn looked like coasting
to an easy win, but over the
final furlong Sellwood had to
use all his strength to land his
mount a narrow winner from
Astounding.
f • • • •
Sandhurst, a well-grown
chestnut colt by first-season sire
Bob Major (imp.), has laid
early claim to being the best
youngster out this season. At
his first start he easily won
the Maribyrnong Trial Stakes
at Flemington ; on the first day
of the Caulfield Cup meeting he
ran an unlucky fourth, and in
the second Gwyn Nursery last
Saturday he showed speed and
stamina to lead all the way in
the fast time of 59sec. His
sire’s good English form was
mentioned here after Sand-
hurst’s first win. His dam,
Deori, was by Dhoti from East
End (who won the Oaks and
other good races). On that
breeding, Sandhurst should
have a bright future.
In recent years fillies like
True Course and Chicquita
have upheld the prestige of rac-
ing in Victoria, but the running
of the One Thousand Guineas
(actually worth 3500gn5.) at
C aulfield showed that the State
hasn’t a filly of any class this
season. All three placegetters
were from Sydney. The race
went to Golden way, who also
“It’s Wednesday"
won this year’s Edward Mani-
fold Stakes —her two Mel-
bourne starts have earned her
£4500. Bill Williamson rode a
superb race on the winner, and
it was his skill that staved off a
challenge from Amneris, on
whom George Podm o r e
covered a lot of extra ground.
• • • •
In the absence of Syntax, Ray
Ribbon showed a glimpse of
former form in winning the
£3OOO Caulfield Stakes on the
middle day of the Caulfield
Cup meeting. The field was far
short of w.-f.-a. standard, but
Ray Ribbon won easily, and
he may have a chance in the
rich (£5500) W. S. Cox Plate
at Moonee Valley next Satur-
day, a race he won last year,
defeating Rising Fast.
• • •
The Mona Nursery at Caul-
field last Wednesday was
divided, enabling both Princess
Tirage and Sydney filly Andabri
to continue their winning ways.
Of the two, Andabri was the
more impressive, and she is
likely to trouble the colts in
races like the Maribyrnong
Plate on Derby day.
Melbourne’s Spring racing
carnival is continued at
Moonee Valley next Saturday,
where the feature races will be
the Moonee Valley Gold Cup
(13 furlongs) and the W. S.
Cox Plate (10 furlongs). This
year’s Valley Cup field is weak,
with Baron Boissier (9.2) head-
ing the weights of horses still
left in at time of writing.
Selections: Lord Gavin, 1 ;
Pandie Sun, 2 ; Ralkon, 3.
No fewer than seven out of
the last 10 W. S. Cox Plates
have been won by three-year-
olds ; and a classy bunch they
have been : Chanak, Carbon
Copy, Delta, Alister, Bronton,
Hydrogen, Kingster. Possibly,
Prince Darius will continue the
colts’ success, with Redcraze
and Ray Ribbon his most
difficult opponents.
* * *
—Other Courses
Sydney race-club executives!
find it hard to understand the
nomination of upwards of 200
horses for a Saturday race-
meeting followed by such heavy
scratchings at acceptance-time
that some fields are reduced to
farcical proportions. The
scratching-pen was so freely
used for City Tattersall’s meet-
ing at Randwick last Saturday
that 184 were taken from their
races and only 68 left in the
seven events, and of these 10
were withdrawn after accept-
ance. One of the strangest
aspects was that there were only
three starters in the two-year-
old sprint for fillies and only
five in the colts’ division.
Maybe next year the club will
programme maiden events for
juveniles. Last month there
were 29 trials (Rosebery and


tell a ‘big ’
Scotch from a
‘small’ Scotch?
ii y* T \
BEIXS
SCOTCH
••STUUO AND »ttN WP
*J IN 'SCOTLAND
jIN SCOTLAND m
O, STILLERS"«™ SCOT‘S
NaSIM
*** CCWTINT*-
We don’t mean the differ-
ence between a double and
a single. We mean the dif-
ference between the ordin-
ary run of whiskies—and a
masterpiece such as
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
We of Bell’s are independ-
ent distillers. The output
is not huge, but to those
who know it, it is very,
very precious. Try Bell’s
Old Scotch Whisky—and
you will acknowledge its
magic mastery.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BEILS
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur Bell de Sons Ltd. , Distiller*,
Perth, Scotland. Established 1825
Randwick) for two-year-olds,
so there’s no shortage of
horses of that age.
• • • •
Owner Bob Carter paid
1700gns. for Man of Iron and
2000gns. for Ginger Nell as
yearlings at the Randwick sales
last autumn. He didn’t have
long to wait to win races with
the pair, both of them by new
sires, Flying Missel (Am.) and
Bold Buccaneer (imp.) respec-
tively. In the small fields for
the two-year-old events at
Randwick Man of Iron had an
easy win in the YouthfUl Stakes
and Ginger Nell defeated her
two opponents in the Juvenile
Stakes by half-a-dozen lengths.
Both are trained at Randwick
by Harry Plant. Man of Iron
is from Kingster’s dam, Canvas
Back (imp.) by William of
Valence from Canvas by
Solario, while Ginger Nell’s
dam, Luministe (imp.), is by
Hunter’s Moon IV from Marie
Galante by Brantome. The
filly is a half-sister to Orionis,
who showed plenty of speed at
two-years but lacked stamina: 3
A more famous relative was
Never Say Die, a winner of the
English Derby and St. Leger.
Back to best form, speedy
Mandingos landed several big
bets for the stable, and for the
public, when he made a Rand-
wick time-record for six
furlongs in the W. R. Buxton
Stakes, 1.9|. Previous best was
1.9 j, shared by Maniana and
Spearby. Mandingos met a
moderate field of five and
carried topweight of 8.11. Clear
Profit, recently out of Gradua-
tion Stakes’ class, impressed by
finishing second.
The Queensland Guineas
provided one of the closest
finishes in the history of the
mile contest, with New
Zealand-bred Neptunist defeat-
ing Beau Pierre by a nose, Mon
Frere another nose away third.
Neptunist is by Neptune (imp.)
from Prudentia by Solicitor
General (imp.) and cost a mere
200gns. as a yearling. As he’s
bred on the right lines, he
could develop into a top
Brisbane stayer as the season
advances. New Venn, easy
winner of the C. E. McDougall
Stakes, is from a sister to
Dumfries, a good winner on
Melbourne tracks. She was
bought at the Randwick sales
for 1600gns. and is by New-
town Wonder (imp.) from Venn
by Agincourt (imp.), tracing
back to Grafton (imp.).
The progeny of imported
Bold Buccaneer, facing this
season for the first time, were
keenly sought at the Randwick
yearling-sales last autumn, and
they have got away to a good
start. His winners include
Tobermory, winner in fine style
of the First Hopeful Stakes at
the Q.T.C. meeting. Fred Best
trains the colt for several
women owners. The colt’s dam,
Acceleration, is by Hua from
Jennybrook by Midstream
(imp.).
• •' ' • 1 •
Winners at the Wellington
(N.Z.) spring meeting at Trent-
ham included Somerset Fair,
who didn’t race as well as was
expected of him when he was
in Australia. In the Wainui
Handicap (one mile) he carried
a welter weight, 9.9, and
covered the distance in 1.37.
On the same programme
Tawhiao won the Wellington
Guineas (£2100; also run at
one mile). Winning margin
was a nose. The colt is by
Marco Polo from Chubin by
Nizami (imp.) and was bred
at Trelawny Stud, Cambridge.
He was auctioned about half-
an-hour before Tulloch.
Boorala, who, at his first
race-start, brilliantly won the
Maiden Nursery at Canter-
bury, is a son of Leonard
(whose wins included the
V.R.C. Fisher Plate and the
Moonee Valley Cox Plate,
while he was placed in the
Melbourne, Moonee Valley and
Port Adelaide Cups). A grey,
Boorala had won a Rosebery
barrier-trial under racing con-
ditions in great style. He’s
trained by Bill Sayers.
* * *
The Spring Cup
With its Spring Cup worth
£5OOO, Spring Handicap Final
of £2OOO, eight events in all on
the card, a solid line-up in all of
them, and some dazzling driv-'
ing and a wonderful race for
the Cup, Harold Park on
Saturday night was a convinc-
ing demonstration of what pro-
gressive control, with some
thought for attracting the
public, can do for a sport. In
the Cup, particularly, the
crowd certainly got plenty for
its money.
The Park form horse, Sky
High, duly landed the Cup—-
but only just. Sibelia had
beaten the Sky Raider horse at
their previous meeting in the
£lOOO Free-For-All on October
12, and the mare (by the same
top sire) went within a whisker
ol doing it again ; indeed, with
a touch of luck she probably
would have. Public assess-
ment could hardly have been
sounder: sto 2 Sky High, sixes
Sibelia and First Variety*
(third), fours King Ranji
(fourth), eights to fifties the
rest —a comment on consistent
form, and on control of the
night sport.
• •; •: •
On recent form Sibelia
would have earned a Cup, but
on the same ground it would
have been tough luck if Sky
High hadn’t been his game
head to the good. His 13th
start at the Park, and his record
there now reading: nine wins,
a second and three thirds. He
was superbly driven by J.
• Biskin. Unluckiest horse in
the race, King Ranji. He got
away badly, and there was a
whale of a lot of merit in his
fourth.
Fettle, too, duly did what
form and the odds (threes-on)
said he’d do, comfortably land-
ing the Spring Handicap from
Highland Jan, with Vapour
Trail trailing ’em. He made the
pace—and fast! —and at this
stage looks a strong Inter-
Dominion prospect.
+ +
Cricket
The Australian cricketers
began their South African tour
on Saturday, against Northern
Rhodesia. The consistent
Burke (102) and Burge (81) got
in useful batting practice on the
first day. The next two games
are both against Rhodesia ; the
team’s first real test will come
in the fourth game, against
Transvaal (Nov. 8-12), when it
meets the backbone of
S’Africa’s likely Test-attack
(Adcock, Heine and Tayfield).
•
The Sheffield Shield begins
as usual with N.S.W. v. Queens-
land in Brisbane this Friday.
N.S.W. is led by Sid Carroll,
whose backs-to-the-wall knock
of 86 against a dominating
Victoria at the end of last
season (he batted for 6| hours
with a badly cut right hand) did
as much as any single effort
during the year to keep posses-
sion of the Shield for N.S.W.


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO WINIFRED MARIE SMITH late of
138 Short Street, Balmain AND TO
GEORGE CARR late of Flat 15 No.
20 Bays water Road Kings Cross. —TAKE
NOTICE that WILLIAM LESLIE
SMITH has filed Petition No. 93 of
1956 praying for a Divorce from WINI-
FRED MARIE SMITH on the grounds
of her adultery with GEORGE CARR
and is asking the Court to ascertain
the mount of damages to be paid in
respect of the adultery (if any) com-
mitted If you or either of you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Sydney by the 31st day of December
1957 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from ERNEST ALOY-
Sll'S CLEARY, Solicitor, of 56 Hunter
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO GORDON DUNSTAN ALBERT
COOPER late of Moruva. —TAKE
NOTICE that LILY GERTRUDE
COOPER has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2140 of 1957 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 19th day of December i 957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without-
charge from MESSRS. MADDOCKS
COHEN & MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 38
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —Is Divorce.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction in
Divorce.
TO ALEXANDER McMILLAN BICKER-
TON late of 16 Sunnyside Avenue,
Camberwell Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE
that PHYLLIS LAVINIA BICKERTON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2255 of 1957 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three (3) years and upwards under the
law of Victoria IF you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the IStli day of
December 1957 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. BOYCE & BOYCE, Solicitors,
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS PATRICK CUNNING-
HAM.—TAKE NOTICE that THELMA
MURIEL CUNNINGHAM has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4416 of 1956
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise
of the Court’s discretion under Section
19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899 If you wish to defend this
suit, you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 31st
December 1957 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
MADDOCKS COHEN & MAGUIRE, Soli-
citors, of 38 Martin Place, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
NOTHINC EQUALS
Warmray's Amazing Efficiency
Warmray
TRIPLE-PURPOSE, SLOW-COMBUSTION,
AIR-CONDITIONING HOME HEATER
Model No. 3
Super De Luxe
Large Capacity
Over 8,000
cm. ft.
•fa Special large
firebox for long
burning without
attention.
Extra large
hotplate for
cooking.
Installs In Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray"
ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING
Model No. 2A
X Heats oV a r 5,000
cu. ft.
•fa Modern artistic
cream porcelain
enamel on solid cast
Iron.
No dirty fireplaces
to clean.
Full view of blazing
fire through open
or closed front.
■4r Lights In seconds
warms entire room
In minutes.
No smoke or dust to
soil furnishings.
★ Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
Your appreciation of Warmray
qualitu hce madert Austral,,* |
fgg and ttle worlds ip
j most imitated HtAffß
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL—REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
iwyrr.wi Mm
m
The secret of Warmray’s Amazing: Efficiency is
the Patented Heating Tabes (illustrated above),
which are built Into the firebox. The air in the
room passes through these tubes continuously,
thus maintaining an even warmth in every part
of the room.
JL BURNS ALL SOLID FUELS
WOOD IS CLEANEST,
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers ana
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
BUY NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors,
Challls House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: “Warmray.” BL 3217.
If unobtainable locally, phone, write or call
for illustrated Brochure and name of nearest
agents.
Jim de Courcy, brilliant but
inconsistent, is recalled for
what will no doubt be his last
chance. Fast-bowler Crawford
must have been picked on
reputation, but could come
good. Mosman ’keeper Doug
Ford gets his chance in place
of Newcastle’s Ossie Lambert,
who was lucky to have held his
place last year—he didn’t hold
some of the snicks. Lambert
first made the Shield team for
two games in 1950-51, was
passed over for the next three
seasons for Balmain's Geoff
Trueman, .and was recalled in
1954-55.
* • • •
Queensland has only one
player in its XI new to Shield-
cricket Grout’s replacement
as ’keeper, Dick Tovey,
formerly of Petersham club
(Sydney). Lindwall, in devasta-
ting form with the ball in club
games, is again captain, and
tie'll again be supported in the
attack by stalwarts Bratchford
and Walmsley. Ron Archer,
who dropped out of the team
to South Africa, is selected as a
batsman-only.
“Bris.”: “Slip” made a bad
slip when he wrote of Ken
Mackay's “failure” in England
(B. 9/10/’57). Mackay had the
highest batting-average of the
tour, both for all matches and
for first-class matches.
* * *
—Of her Fields
Australia’s No. 1 road-cyclist
today is, without doubt, ex-
Olvmpian gold- medallist
Russell Mockridge, of Geelong.
He’s had a wonderful season.
From scratch in every handicap
event he’s won the Tour of
Tasmania, the 125-mile Aus-
tralian road-title, the Hamilton
75-mile race, the Midlands
Tour, the Tour of Gippsland
and, most gruelling of all y the
1000-mile “Sun” Tour of Vic-
toria. As well he’s taken
fastest time in the Mt. Gambier
100-miler and the Warrnam-
bool-Melbourne in which,
incidentally, he also holds
record fastest-time (shrs. 47min.
ssec.), set last year.
H* #
One or two results, in brief: At
Brisbane stadium, 1956 Olympian
boxer Warner Batchelor k.o.’d Bindi
Jack in the third round (after him-
self being down for a count of nine
in the second round) to take Jack’s
Australian flyweight title... .Aus-
tralian golfer Kel Nagle won, in
quick succession, the N.Z. Open
and N.Z. professional titles, and,
at Armidale (N.S.W.), the N.S.W.
Closed championship... .On Satur-
day Oct. 12 East Fremantle won
the W.A. grand-final 10.18-9.8, from
East Perth... .Graham Lovett won
the Metropolitan (Sydney) grass-
courts tennis title from former Davis
Cup player Geoff Brown 6-3, 6-1.
(The two had met recently, for a
similar result, in the Metropolitan
hardcourts final.)
* * *
“Abie”: A few months ago
I had to point out here that the
Burns-Johnson fight in 1908
was not held at night. Then
the Service Department (B.
5/6/’57), quoting D e n z i 1
Batchelor’s Big Fight, had it
that the Corbeti-Fitzsimmons
stoush was “fought on the night
of March 17, 1897.” This was
another broad-daylight affair ;
the two heavyweights began to
throw punches at precisely five
minutes after noon.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
The OVERLANDER SONG
BOOK: 58 songs with music. Aus-
tralian folk songs, including songs
of the Shearers, Drovers, Bush-
rangers, Diggers, Station Hands,
Convict Days. 127 pages,
illustrated. 8/- post free.
GEORGIAN HOUSE,
Publishers,
Box 52, Albert Park, Vic.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Myer’s Insect
Singers and Distant’s Oriental
Cicadidce. —6605.
Author and words of verse con-
taining the following fines:
For a message thrills
Through the bastion hills
That has neither voice. nor form . . .
He has stolen the wings
Of the deathless things
That range where the spirit is lord.
He is linked anew
Through the silence through
The strands of a strandless cord.
—6607.
To buy copy of He That Plays the
King, by Kenneth Tynan; published
by Longmans in 1950. —6604.
Does Anybody Know?
Anything of the old “National
Amphitheatre,” popularly known as
the “Nash,” and once located some-
where in Castlereagh Street, Sydney?
Information Sought
(1) Name of Alexander the Great’s
favorite horse ? (2) Did the Roman
Emperor Caligula really make a
horse a Consul?
(1) Bucephalus. Alexander, before
his accession, had proved the only
one able to break him in, and there-
fore fulfilled a condition laid down
by an oracle as necessary in one who
was to wear the crown of
Macedonia. Bucephalus died t during
Alexander’s campaign in India, and
the city of Bucephala was built by
Alexander in memory of him. (2)
Suetonius says that Incitatus,
Caligula’s favorite charger, owned
a marble stable, an ivory stall,
purple blankets and a jewelled
collar; also a house, furniture and
slaves to provide suitable enter-
tainment for guests whom Caligula
invited in his name. To prevent
Incitatus growing restive before the
races, troops were picketed near by
to enforce absolute silence. Though
it is often written that Caligula
made his horse a Consul, this does
not seem to be historically correct.
Suetonius’ comment is, “It is said
that he even planned to award
Incitatus a Consulship.”
* * * *
Co'uld you repeat the formula
given on the Service page for the
blonding of wood by means of
pyrogallic acid and ferrous-sulphate ?
(The following answer appeared
on this page in the issue of
27/6/’57.) The work requires
experience and a knowledge of the
physiology of the particular wood
being treated; timbers vary greatly
in their reaction to chemicals by
reason of their age at time of
cutting, seasoning, etc. Prepare
a mixture of 1 part pyrogallic acid
in 25 parts warm water, and, when
dissolved, coat the wood with this.
“What a shame! Such a noble animal! It Would have made a lovely fur-coat .”
Allow to dry. Prepare a solution of
gieen vitriol (2 parts) in boiling
water (50 parts), and paint it over
the first coating of the wood. This
should produce the result you
require, but it may be necessary to
repeat. Try a small piece of wood
first.
* * * *
What were Jim Laker’s bowling-
figures in each game he played
against Australia in (7) 1948, (2)
1953 ?
(1) For Surrey (May 8-11), 1-137
(oft 37 overs); for M.C.C., at
Lord’s (May 22-25), 3-127 (37
overs); first Test, at Nottingham
(June 10-15), 4-138 (55 overs);
second Test, at Lord’s (June 24-29),
0-17 (7 overs) and 2-111 ,(31.2
overs); fourth Test, at Leeds (July
22-27), 3-113 (30 overs) and 0-93
(32 overs); for Leveson Gower’s
XI, at Scarborough (Sept. 8-10),
1-95 (20 overs). (2) For Surrey (May
9-11), 0-50 (off 17 overs); third
Test, at Manchester (July 9-14), 1-42
(17 overs) and 2-11 (9 overs); fourth
Test, at Leeds (July 23-28), 0-33 (9
overs) and 1-17 (2 overs); for Surrey
(July 29-31), 1-68 (18 overs); fifth
Test, at The Oval (Aug, 15-19), 1-34
(5 overs) and 4-75 (16.5 overs). (His
figures against Australia in 1956
were, of course, very much more
impressive.)
* * * *
Complete words of Edward Leads
‘‘The Owl and the Pussy-Cat”?
The Owl and the Pussy-Cat went to
sea
In a beautiful pea-green boat,
They took some honey, and plenty
of money,
Wrapped up in a five-pound note.
The Owl looked up to the stars
above,
And sang to a small guitar,
“O lovely Pussy! O Pussy, my love,
What a beautiful Pussy you are,
You are,
You are,
What a beautiful Pussy you are!”
Pussy said to the Owl, “You
elegant fowl!
How charmingly sweet you sing!
O let us be married! Too long we
have tarried;
But what shall we do for a ring?”
They sailed away for a year and a
day,
To the land where the Bong-tree
grows,
And there in a wood a Piggy-wig
stood,
With a ring at the end of his nose,
His nose,
His nose,
With a ring at the end of his nose.
“Dear Pig, are you willing to sell
for pne shilling
Your ring?” Said the Piggy, “I
will.”
So they took it away, and were
married next day
By the Turkey who lives on the
hill.
They din£d on mince, and slices of
quince,
Which they ate with a runcible
spoon;
And hand in hand, on the edge of
the sand,
They danced by the light of the
moon,
The moon,
The moon,
They danced by the light of the
moon.
Brief Answers
C.F.8.: It could be either of the
following, listed under “Wrecks and
Shipping Disasters” in the Aus-
tralian Encyclopedia: Yarrow (229
tons, brig; wrecked in August, 1870,
on Lonsdale Reef, on voyage from
Newcastle to Melbourne); Triton
(schooner, of Newcastle; wrecked
about 1870). However, suggest you
write the Shiplovers’ Society of
N.S.W., 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
F.C.R.: According to our
calculations, a Wednesday; it can
be checked on the “Perpetual
Calendar” in any Whitaker’s
Almanac ... .J .J .C.: Write the
Town Clerk, Melbourne City
Council, Town Hall, Swanston
Street, Melbourne.... A.J.W.:
Afraid that this is not practicable,
though it’s a matter you might take
up through the likes of such clubs
as you mention... .L.H.K.: Suggest
you buy a copy of Writers and
Artists’ Year Book, available from
Angus and Robertson; price,
15s. 9d A.J.L.: During its
1957-58 seasons the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra will give a
series of open-air concerts in the
world’s largest all-plywood music-
shell, now standing in the E. S.
Marks Oval, Moore Park, Sydney.
The Australian Broadcasting Com-
mission has announced that the first
concert is scheduled for December.
There is a seating-capacity for 7000
persons, with further room for as
many again on the surrounding
lawns. The shell itself is large
enough to accommodate the full
orchestra of 80 players, together
with a choir of 60. The Symonds
music-shell was completed in
December last year. It was designed


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(.Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager (or Australia.
r*UlJi in th e
Fit lime
N
It seems to me that Australia could render
itself an immense service now by undertaking a
complete survey of the nation’s resources.
These are good years. The economy is stable;
promise piles upon promise in what lies ahead.
But we’ve to think in long range of the place
Australia will be filling in the world 25 years,
or even 50 years, hence, at the turn of the century.
No full estimate has been made of this
country’s true potential. The present, and to some
extent the future, has been assessed. But 1 would
like to see a thorough survey of our resources, to
enable us to go about our expansion in the surest
and most practical way. It would require a joint
effort by the Commonwealth and States; is
important enough, in my opinion, to merit the
holding of an Australian Economic Convention.
Seven Governments, each elected for a given
term, are working for the country’s advancement
according to their lights—and subject to their time
in office. Departments and agencies under them
are doing a fine job in projecting development.
But there is no continuing, co-ordinated plan,
not any complete forward appraisal of the economy
on which a long range national programme could
be based.
This might have been excused in the past by
Australia’s size and the divisions of power in which
settlement was started. But the future will demand
something more from us than the building up of
a continent by division and chance.
A basic condition to Australia’s successful
entry into this new. exciting age is that we should
know what we have to work upon.
Canada, bursting as it is with prosperity, has
appointed a commission to report on its prospective
development over the next 25 years. Other
countries are “acting ahead.” And talented
Australians are available to do a similar work for
this country if they are given the opportunity.
//
by Mr. Ralph Symonds and pre-
fabricated from 25ft.-x-/tt. sneets of
“Reswood” marine - plywood.
Before the close of last season,
in February, the A.B.C. found it
possible to hold orchestra
rehearsals and two Sunday concerts
under Joseph Post and Tibor Paul.
D.S.S.: It is suggested that you
call at St. Stephen's Cathedral
Office, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane,
and ask for the Administrator, who
would be able to advise you on the
matter... .S.E.: Mrs. Caroline
Grills was found guilty of the
attempted murder of her sister-in-
law Mrs. Eveline Lundberg (who
died in Sept., 1956), and was
sentenced to death (Oct. 16, 1953).
She is serving a life-sentence....
P.A.P.: Yes, Winston Churchill was
First Lord of the Admiralty at the
time of Gallipoli... .Jas. McC.: (1)
Hungary joined the Axis Powers in
1940. (2) Hungarians rought with
the Germans on the Russian front
in World War 11. (3) Not so far as
is known... .8.F.: Film-star
Carmen Miranda died suddenly on
Aug. 5, 1955. (On the same day the
22-year-old film-star Suzan Ball died
of cancer.)... .A.F.: Several
attempts have been made, in
particular by Russia and India, to
have Red China admitted to the
United Nations at the expense of
Nationalist China, but all have
failed. In Nov., 1956, at the 11th
session of U.N., India sponsored
such a move, which was defeated;
and at the recent U.N. session the
question was shelved again for
another year J.S.: The first
British atomic explosion at Monte
Bello (W.A.) was on Oct. 3, 1952.
....K.L.: Wouldn't bet on it.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary .
W.M.M.: Angular construction.
. ...J.E.: Liked the part where the
drunken tympanist comes in 24 bars
too early... .Mike: Strike, Mike!
. ...A.T.R.: Put it in a blast-
furnace... .J.H.: It’s definitely non-
El and you'd better bury it....
M.K.: “Passion Unbridled”
presented to the office-b0y....
E.K.R.: Your cricketer caught in
slips... .F.M.: “Have you enough
space for this?” No; but you
might try a space-ship L.F.L.:
Slipshod... .S.S.: Simpers along
like a stage-struck teenager....
K. : Astounding W. 8.: Too
much minor detail... .E.O’L.:
Prosaic K.L.N.: It must be fun
to “fling wide the casement” and
“drink in the splendor of the night.”
. ...E.E.: Needs firmer treatment,
fewer adjectives... .0.L.: Gingerly
deposited that maneating crab in
the basket W.R.T.: Flatter than
a pancake.... L.K..: “Grains of
sand, glistening, granulated”
whisked out... .J.W.: About as
interesting as stale bread... .C.P.:
Your “twisting agonised bitumen
rent by council drills” was altogether
too frenzied... .K..M.C.: “Will you
please comment on this?” We did.
. ...K.R.: First and fourth stanzas
rot bad....E.L.: Not much in
“The Overseer’s Problem,” but one
or two good touches in the other.
. ...P.R.: Jazz drummer off the
beat... .M.M.: You’ve got some-
thing there; come again....
L. We'll have a sip of “My First
Spree”:
Now the Do Drop Inn was a wayside
pub
Built in the heart of a mulga scrub,
They only sold whisky and home-brewed
gin
And overproof rum at the Do Drop Inn.
And there was another bloke there on
the spree—
At least he was suffering recovery.
He told me his mates called him Sun-
down Slim,
He was rough and as tough as gidyea-
limb.
But still he was crook and he had the
shakes.
He kept seeing spiders and mobs of
snakes.
1 thought he was doing it only for fun
Because I kept looking and couldn’t see
one.
And so I went on in a kind of haze,
I lost all account of the nights and
days.
The next I remembered was Slim one
night
Quite proudly declaring “I’m getting
right.”
’Twas then I whispered a silent curse
For I knew in my heart he was getting
worse.
And f felt real sorry for poor old Slim,
He had spiders and snakes all over him.
They were in his pockets and in his
hair,
Around him and over him everywhere ;
There was red ones and green ones and
pink ones and blue
But Slim was that crook he never knew.
And dancing all over the bar-room floor
Was a little fat man and girls galore;
A fat man with eyes like two fried
eggs,
And every girl had a dozen legs.
. ...G.C.G.: That satellite’s a
boomerang... .R.F.: Language
archaic... .R.P.: Swat “The Fly.”
C.S.: Poetry needs a much more
compact form than that. It shows
some descriptive ability and you
might do better to try short-stories.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BRITISH LABOR POLICY
COMMENTING on the
British Labor Party con-
ference, London “New States-
man” notes that it has made
plain “the issues on which it
intends to give battle whenever
the next election comes: the
cost of living, rents, national
superannuation.” Not only
does this exactly match the
mood of the uncommitted
voter, but the practical
commonsense with which the
conference has faced its task
shows that it is more in tune
with the general public than
at any time since 1945.”
The “uncommitted voter,”
the paper adds, represents
about 14.5 per cent, of the vote:
“Who are they? To define
them by class or age-group is
highly speculative. But an intel-
ligent reading of the polls does
lead to a reasonable deduction
about what they think. They
are mostly people who are
frightened of (or injured by)
what they broadly describe as
the cost of living; who are
disillusioned with Tory
economic policies and who have
no great confidence that Labor
would do much better.”
The Unions
Apart from rents, living-
costs and superannuation, this
floating vote is concerned with
another “key question” as far
as Labor is concerned.
If, comments the “New
Statesman,” Labor is returned
to power, “it too will inherit a
situation in which its immediate
task must be to steady the cost
of living and strengthen the
pound. It will succeed only if
it can count on the full and
active support of the unions. If
they [the unions] want a
Labor Government to set in
hand the building of a new
society they must dedicate
themselves to the common task
and must accept the restraints
and responsibilities which go
with it.
“We all know that trade-
unionists want a Labor
Government: can [the union-
leaders] pledge their members
to work with it when they get
it? The uncommitted voter
wants, not a showdown with
Labor but a Government which
can command the loyalty of the
unions in the common task of
building a society in which
high production and fair shares
go hand in hand.”
On this question, the uncom-
mitted voter may, of course,
take another view, that of
London “Time and Tide,” for
example:
“The Labor party’s strongest
card is its most dangerous and
frightening one. Though
Labor economists pretend to
deny it, everyone knows that
the behavior of the trade-
unions is the conclusive factor
in promoting or controlling
inflation.
“The union - leaders have
strongly suggested and the
Labor party has, of course,
welcomed the suggestion that
the unions will not raise a
—London “Daily Mirror ”
THE CERT.
finger to check the main cause
of inflation under any Govern-
ment except a Socialist one.
The Labor party feels entitled
to claim that Socialism holds
the only hope of co-operation
with the unions and therefore
of checking inflatidn. Whether
this claim would be borne out
in practice may be extremely
doubtful, but the fact that it
can be made is alarming
enough. It means, if people
believe it, that the unions have
absolute and permanent power
to dictate the kind of Govern-
ment which Britain must have.
“Public Ownership”
Two other significant
matters raised at the Labor
conference were Labor’s new
policy of “public ownership”
and its attitude on nuclear
weapons.
On public ownership, “Man-
chester Guardian” comments
that “it looks as though the
most he [Mr. Gaitskell]
probably intends is that
occasionally a firm or firms
might be taken over and used
to ginger up an industry that
has lapsed into inefficiency or
has become insufficiently com-
petitive. This is a potentially
useful idea; and no one is going
to mind very much if, for
party reasons, it is hailed as a
weapon of the new Socialism.
But if it is to become more
than just a good idea there
will have to be much fresh
thinking about the ways in
which public ownership can be
combined with a truly pro-
gressive and enterprising
attitude to management.
“This, however, is merely a
subsidiary theme. The crux of
the plan is the new idea of a
State share-ownership
divorced from managerial
control. A future Labor
Government is to acquire
shares in public companies in
two ways: by investing the
resources of a State super-
annuation fund, and by accept-
ing shares in lieu of death-duty
payments.
“This raises a whole host of
questions, of which three are
vital. Can a Government
simply hold shares without
becoming embroiled in the
running of industries? What
is the object of buying shares,
and is this the only way to
achieve it? And, lastly, what
reason is there to think that
the ‘ordinary, decent people
who do not think much on
politics’ will warm to this idea
any more than they have done
to straightforward nationalisa-
tion in the past?
“The answer to the first
question is surely that a
Government, once it becomes
the owner of a majority of a
company’s shares, will inevit-
ably be dragged into any
industrial —or diplomatic
controversy fn which that
company is involved. That is
the lesson of British Petro-
leum’s imbroglio with Israel;
the same trouble would be
repeated whenever a large
company decided to follow an
unpopular course.
“As for the object of the
plan, Mr. Gaitskell says that
this is to give the public
through the Government a
share in the gains from
economic growth. But are
there not better ways of
redistributing wealth which
do not involve the risks of a
massive concentration of
economic power in a Govern-
ment’s hands? The Labor
party is still thinking in out-
moded terms; it should take
a leaf from the Liberal book.
“Finally, what is there in this
to interest the mass of ordinary
voters? Most people are not
interested in dogmas—whether
the old ones about nationalisa-
tion or new ones about equality.
They will not wish to see the
affairs of vast industries upset
merely in order that capital
gains shall be channelled more
effectively into the Treasury.
Provided it is carried out only
on a small scale, the share-
buying policy need not do very
much harm. It is not going to
do much good either to the
country’s prospects of economic
recovery or to Labor's
chances of forming a Govern-
ment.”
The H-bomb
Possibly the most heartening
thing about the conference was
Aneurin Bevan’s stand on the
H-bomb. Not so long ago,
during his visit to India, Mr.
Bevan said, “I wish to heaven
that Britain would rise to her
moral stature by surrendering
her hydrogen-bomb experi-
ment. I can see no good
purpose at all in Britain also
arming herself with that useless
weapon.”
He has apparently suffered a
change of mind and, at the con-
ference, went against an
influential body of Socialist
thinking: “In a speech
requiring considerable political
courage he said that such a
policy [abandonment of the H-
bomb] would send a British
Foreign Secretary naked into


CHATEAU TANUNOA
Stories of the Coastal Lights No . io
.
m
Point Perpendicular
The original lighthouse at Jervis Bay was built in the wrong
place. It was erected on Cape St. George (on the opposite
side of the Bay to Point Perpendicular) and came into use in
1860.
During construction, reports reached Sydney that the
builder had shifted the site, but not until the work was
almost finished did the N.S.W. Government launch an en-
quiry. Captain Denham of the survey ship Herald was
instructed to accompany members of the Pilot Board and
other officials to Jervis Bay and fix the astronomical position
of the site.
They found that the contractor had chosen a site near a
quarry, which he maintained was shown on a rough plan of
the area. The original proposal had been that the light
should be built on the extreme low point of Cape St. George
to warn ships away from Wreck Bay.
The investigators decided that the light would not lead
ships into danger. They recommended that the Cape St.
George light should be exhibited as “a temporary measure,”
pending erection of a better lighthouse in the same locality.
Not until 1883 did a party, which included the Colonial
Architect, James Barnett, visit the locality and select the
present site on Point Perpendicular. The new light, shown
from a circular stone tower 56 ft. high, was at last put into
service on May 1, 1899 —a triple flashing white light of
100,000 candle power.
The Point Perpendicular light was strengthened in 1909
and again in 1923. It is now of 316,000 candle power and
is visible for 24 miles. The first head keeper there was
William Parker.
Among near-wrecks that have occurred at Point Perpen-
dicular was the stranding of the Orient mail steamer
Chimborazo in 1878. The vessel was later refloated and
repaired in Sydney. In 1909, the steamer Eden struck and
was greatly damaged at Point Perpendicular.
The position of the light is latitude 35° 06' south, longi-
tude 150° 50' east. Point Perpendicular is 12 miles from
Huskisson, the nearest town, and about 86 miles by sea
from Sydney.
There’s Safety in the quality
of this pure grape brandy
CHATEAU TANUNDA
N.S.W. Agentt
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 119 years
CLIO
the United Nations council
chamber.” (London “Daily
Mail.”)
Further, “Mr. Bevan ridi-
culed the notion that Britain
should abandon the H-bomb.
He said it would mean ‘the dis-
mantling of the whole fabric
of Britain’s international re-
lationships without putting
anything in its place.’ And he
argued so eloquently that he
carried the Socialist conference
with him.” (London “Daily
Express.”)
Paying tribute to Bevan’s
“vigorous realism,” London
“Daily Telegraph” adds that
“if it had not been for Mr.
Bevan the Socialist-party con-
ference would have gone on
record as advocating the uni-
lateral renunciation by Britain
of all nuclear weapons.
“This is the course which,
until Mr. Bevan spoke, had
been supported by the main
body of the delegates. No one
could have described the
dangers of such a policy better
than Mr. Bevan did himself.
It would, as he rightly said,
leave Britain isolated, defence-
less, and wholly dependent on
the United States. It would
make a shambles of our inter-
national commitments without
in any way lessening the danger
of thermonuclear war.
“What does now stand out
is that as far as the leaders of
the Socialist party are con-
cerned both Government and
Opposition recognise the wis-
dom of Britain’s possessing an
H-bomb. Mr. Bevan made it
very clear that he hated this
irksome necessity. But then so
does the Conservative party.
He made it equally clear that a
Socialist Government would
strive to persuade both the
United States and the Soviet
Union to agree to destroy
nuclear and thermonuclear
stockpiles This, of course, is
precisely what the Western
Powers have been trying to do
in the recent protracted dis-
armament talks. These talks
have broken down because the
Soviet Union has consistently
refused to allow essential
measures of inspection and
control. Since Mr. Bevan
accepts the necessity for inspec-
tion and control, it would seem
that his disarmament policy
would not differ in essentials
from that of the present Gov-
ernment.”
After further comment on
Mr. Bevan’s attitude to
nuclear tests, the “Daily Tele-
graph” concludes that “Mr.
Bevan has not always been so
realistic in foreign policy —nor
has Mr. Gaitskell. But not
since the days of Ernest Bevin
have Socialist misconceptions
about the place of force in
foreign policy been so scath-
ingly exposed. Those who may
have hoped that Mr. Bevan, if
ever he became Foreign Secre-
tary, would reverse the whole
trend of British foreign policy
will need to think again.
There is in fact no such thing as
a ‘Socialist foreign policy.’
There is a British foreign policy
whose continuity in the past
has been one of the main
sources of our prestige.”
The Middle East
A Swiss view (“Journal de
Geneve”) of Middle East
tensions:
“Surely, nothing would be
more advisable than a non-
interference agreement, sin-
cerely made and kept, among
the Big Four.
“We have already said, and
it is still true, that there is not
one country in the Middle
East which has the human or
material means to arm itself
with its own resources.
“If the Middle East has be-
come a powder-keg it is because
the great Powers have outdone
each other in accumulating
munitions there.”
Another French
Government
Press-comment on the fall of
the 23rd French Government
since the war:
New York ‘‘Herald Tribune”:
“The days are gone when the
instability of French Govern-
ments could be dismissed as
comic. Now it is tragic. For
France faces not only the
nuclear perils common to all
the members of the Western
Alliance, it also has some
particularly nasty problems of
its own.
“Now we are witnessing
again the familiar spectacle of
the parade to the Elysee Palace,
of prospective Premiers laying
their plans and programmes
before President Coty, of party
chieftains conferring, haggling,
forming liaisons. And then
there will be a new Premier or,
more likely, an old one, who
will form a Government almost
indistinguishable from its pre-
decessor in pplicies and per-
sonnel.
“This is a hell of a way to
run a Government. It does
scant justice to the vaunted
French genius for logic,
realism and resourcefulness.
The land that played so great
a role in creating modern
democracy has not yet learned
how to make it work. Until it
does, its problems will remain
unsolved, its future in doubt,
and its friends in despair.”
* * *
‘‘New York Times”: “The
attempt [to end the Algerian
revolt] was made by Premier
Bourges-Maunoury and his
Cabinet of forward-looking
‘young men.’ Having dis-
tinguished themselves by lead-
ing France into the European
Economic and Atomic Com-
munities, they advanced a
reform plan for Algeria which
broke through the legal fiction
that Algeria is an integral part
of metropolitan France and
offered to both the Algerian
Moslems and the Algerian
‘Europeans’ progressive
regional autonomy and self-
government along ethnic lines,
within a Federal structure and
with an implied ultimate choice
between continued ties with
France or independence,
“But the French National
Assembly rejected this plan by
the comparatively narrow vote
of 279 to 253. It thereby forced


the resignation of the Bourges-
Maunoury Cabinet, even with-
out a Constitutional majority
against it, and compelled Presi-
dent Coty to search for a new
Government.”
* * *
London “Economist”: “More
worrying than any other aspect
of a dispiriting debate is the
negative quality of its result.
The measure was defeated by a
combination of about 159
people who thought it was not
generous enough to the Moslem
majority in Algeria, and 120
who thought it gave them too
much. The first group included
139 Communists, who would
be joined by the Socialists were
any substitute bill to concede
the Moslems 'less; a similar
group would secede to the
Right were any attempt made
to be more generous. ‘The
deadlock,’ says ‘Le Monde’ in
its headline, ‘emphasises the
difficulty of resolving the
Algerian problem by political
means.’ How solve it, then?
By dictatorship?”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post”: “It is, in
fact, the political future of
Algeria which has been called
into question, and the next
French Government will have
to begin again to study the
Algerian problem as a whole.”
* * *
Noel Barber, in London
“Daily Mail”: “Spiritually,
France today is the Devil’s
Island of Europe. And for the
little people of France there is
no escape. They can shout.
They can rave. They can strike.
But they are powerless. Never
forget the fundamental differ-
ence between politics in
Britain and France. In Britain
when a Government falls, each
single member of Parliament
must fight again for his seat.
That makes even the most un-
patriotic man think twice before
he spikes his own Government
for ulterior motives.
“In France a Government
may fall a dozen times. But
the member of Parliament
keeps his seat.”
Another Red Sea?
Commenting on the old
Russian dream of a “warm-
water port on the Persian
Gulf,” London “Time and
Tide” notes that “the dream is
still alive, but it now embraces
the whole Indian Ocean.”
The Russian aim, the paper
adds, is domination of the
“Southern Sea Route,” which
runs “via Suez, Aden, Colombo
and Singapore to the Far
East, and thus links Europe
with Asia. But Soviet domina-
tion in this area can only be
achieved by the expulsion of
the ‘Western Imperialists.’
“This part of the world is the
weakest section of the West’s
defence-system. In the Pacific,
United States island-bases
stretch from the Aleutians to
the Philippines, while in the
Atlantic the Nato bases of
Western Europe, strengthened
by the island-bases of the
United Kingdom and Ice-
land, successfully neutralise
Russia’s ambitions. South-
ward, however, there is a major
gap.
“With the achievement of
Indian independence and the
subsequent removal of all
COMET
Published in London “Observer” in April this year, this cartoon
by “Abu," on the rise to power of Nikita Khrushchev, looks like
an uncannily accurate forecast of events six months later.
British troops from India,
French and British forces in
this area have been in steady
retreat. The evacuation of the
canal base at Suez was followed
by the expulsion of Glubb
Pasha from Jordan and the
handover of British bases there.
“Today the Russians calcu-
late that with the Suez Canal
safely in ‘anti-Western’ hands,
Cyprus torn with dissension and
the Yemen laying claim to
Aden, events are moving in the
right direction. y Deliveries of
arms to the Yemen, the training
of troops by the Russians and
Czechs and the construction of
airstrips are all part of the plan
to create conditions for the
final expulsion of Britain from
the Aden Protectorate and
adjoining territories.”
Further, “Time and Tide”
comments, “Colombo has a
Leftist coalition Government,
and the British naval- and air-
bases in Ceylon are to be with-
drawn to the Maidive Islands,
over which the Government of
Ceylon is now claiming suzer-
ainty. Neither the Maldive
base nor the projected base at
Mombasa will be ready for
some time. In Singapore the
Government recently made a
large number of arrests, and
issued a White Paper claiming
the discovery of a plot by the
Communists aiming at the
overthrow of the Government
by force.
“While trying to ease the
West out of positions of
strength, the Communists are
quietly working to establish
their own footholds in the area
of the Indian Ocean. Mirnyi,
the Soviet I.G.Y. base on Aus-
tralian Antarctic territory,
shows disturbing signs of
becoming a permanent settle-
ment. On the south-eastern tip
of the Indian peninsula the
State of Kerala has elected a
Communist Government. In
Java the Communists have
gained control in the local
elections, and the situation in
the other islands of Indonesia
is chaotic.
“In the island of Madagas-
car, at the local election in
March this year, 26 Communist
deputies were elected out of a
total of 240. Their strength is
concentrated at the two most
important naval bases on the
island —Tamatave and Diego
Suarez. The Madagascar Com-
munist Party is particularly in-
terested in the adjoining
islands, Reunion and Crozet,
and there are strong indications
that the Russians have some
secret base for refuelling sub-
marines in Mozambique.
These various footholds form
an interesting pattern.
“The emphatic assurances of
Defence Minister Sandys that
we shall retain our bases in
Singapore and Malaya, together
with the concern of the South
African Government about the
defence of the sea-routes round
South Africa, point to the fact
that the West is at last taking
Russia’s southern expansionist
drive seriously. This belated
awakening is underlined by the
news from Washington that
American Service-chiefs are
pressing for the establishment
of a naval task-force in the
Indian Ocean.”
Asia and America
Writing at some length in
London “Encounter” to show
that neither the Soviet nor
American pattern of develop-
ment can be applied holus-
bolus to Asia, Bertrand de
Jouvenel makes some interest-
ing observations on the capacity
of both Eastern and Western
countries to copy the American
way of life.
After covering the industrial,
agricultural, social and educa-
tional problems of Asian
countries, de Jouvenel
comments that “in the West,
so-called ‘underdeveloped
countries’ have become, over
the last years, the subject of a
good deal of popular literature
[which] makes ample use of
quite unscientific comparisons
of the various national incomes
per head in dollars, thereby
placing the nations of the world
on a ladder of increasing
income per head, with India
on the bottom rung and the
U.S. at the top. It goes on to
assume that by successive steps
the ‘underdeveloped countries'
will rise to the American
standard of life.
“This is a mistaken view of
things and one which would
be gravely misleading, applied
to Asian countries. There is no
inherent obstacle to the duplica-
tion of the American manner
of life in Russia or in Africa
south of the Sahara: there is
such an obstacle in Asia. The
American economy is uniquely
efficient in terms of human
labor: but it is also uniquely
wasteful in terms of natural
resources.
“American procedures reflect
the conditions under which
American civilisation arose: a
mere handful of men, in a
huge land, commanded
apparently limitless resources,
which therefore they had no
reason to husband. Everything
was abundant but human labor,
and thus nothing was of value
and worth economising other
than human labor. The use
made of land reflects this
peculiar situation ; but so does
every feature of American life.
“The American motor-car


Missing Beneficiary
GIBSON, Miss Cora.—ln 1052 of Punt
Road, South Yarra, Melbourne, S.E.l*
please communicate with DRUI-TT,
Solicitors, Borough Chambers, Bourne-
mouth. England. She will hear some-
thing to her advantage.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NELLIE GWEN GREENWELL.—
TAKE NOTICE that VICTOR GEORGE
GREENWELL has filed a Petition No.
2857 of 1957 for divorce on the grounds
of desertion for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 31st day of December 1957
and" obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from F. W. REILLY, Soli-
citor, of 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.'
TO ALBERT EDWARD ASHER some-
times of Junee, N.S.W., address now un-
known. —TAKE NOTICE that vour wife
EDITH HANNAH ASHER has com-
menced proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for
Divorce on the ground of desertion by you
for a continuous period of three years or
more or alternatively on the ground of
separation of the parties for a con-
tinuous period of not less than*five years
immediately preceding the commence-
ment of this action there being no
reasonable likelihood of cohabitation
being resumed IF you desire to defend
such proceedings you must file your
defence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth within FORTY
clear days from the date of this publi-
cation In default of your so doing
the cause may proceed and the Court
will pronounce judgment and make
orders against you in your absence.
DATED this 9th day of October, 1957.
—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
FRED CURRAN & FERRIER, of
Forrest Place, Perth, Western Aus-
tralia, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
may be used as a symbol: this
greedy monster consumes at
least three times the amount of
gas required for the service it
performs. Therefore it is
clearly out of place in a
country which must earn its
oil by painfully achieved
exports. If this were the type
of car adopted in such a
country, the motor-transport
facilities on which that country
could afford to spend foreign
exchange y/ould be cut down
by two-thirds, as against what
they would be if the type
adopted were the sober one.
“There are, obviously, many
features of American life which
are unsuitable to the conditions
of resource-poor countries. And
they are unsuitable not because
of the present condition of
poverty but because of the
permanent context: if the
reproduction of such features
were sought, it would interfere
with the achievement of
welfare.
“To put this thought in a
provocative manner: one
should not think of a space of
time within which Asian nations
shall attain the American
standard of life. They will
never attain it. Which does not
mean that they shall not attain
an equivalent standard of life
—but very different in kind.
They would only be hampered
in the pursuit of this equiva-
lence if they were obsessed by
a pursuit of identity.
“One of the first impressions
of a Westerner in the East is
of the weight of objects in
general: they are so much
lighter in the East. And this
suggests a conclusion: the good
life there must be weaved out
of less material than in the
West. The gentleness and
respect with which natural
material is regarded and treated
in the Orient testifies to a
deep intuitive insight.”
Japan and India
London “Economist” on the
“curious reversal” of the roles
played on the world scene by
Japan and India:
“India, entangled in its own
frontier troubles and engrossed
with the problem of borrow-
ing from abroad, has lately
sounded a little less plonking
in its pronouncements on inter-
national affairs. Japan, on the
other hand, though still firmly
meshed into the American
alliance, has been wearing its
allegiance with an independent
air. In the few months since
Mr. Kishi became Prime
Minister, he has persuaded the
Americans to withdraw all their
ground forces from Japan,
protested impartially and
magisterially against nuclear
testing, and happily followed
Britain’s lead in expanding
trade with China.
“The two great Powers of
free Asia are now in a mood to
—London “Daily Express"
NOTHING TO GAIN BUT THEIR CHAINS
be more sympathetic to one
another than at any time since
the war. They are still
separated by their policy
towards China, for although
Mr. Kishi will let Japanese
traders do business with the
Chinese he is still too dependent
on American economic * aid
to make any moves toward
recognising the Peking
Government. But they might
help one another in their
present economic troubles":
India wants foreign funds, and
Japan wants to sell more of
the industrial equipment that
India needs, and they may well
look simultaneously towards
America as a source of the
money that would heip them
solve both their problems.
“Mr. Nehru and Mr. Kishi
can speak in unison about the
perils of the H-bomb, about the
need to develop the economies
of free Asia, and about the
desire of even those Asians who
are allied to the United States
not to be held too close to the
apron-strings. Nothing would
please the Japanese more, while
staying within the orbit of
American protection, than to
set up a chair next to Mr.
Nehru’s from which they could
utter ex cathedra judgments on
world affairs and the excesses
of the great white Powers.”
Communist
Unemployment
“New York Times” editorial
comment on the explosion of
“one of the standard Com-
munist myths—the notion that
in some magical way Com-
munist rule solves the problem
of unemployment wherever it
may arise”:
“The realities under Com-
munist rule are forcing Com-
munist organs themselves to
admit that this propaganda-
line is an illusion. ‘lzvestia,’
for example, carried a recent
editorial indicating that many
Soviet young people are un-
employed. Yugoslavia openly
admits it has surplus popula-
tion which cannot find proper
employment at home. Poland
has negotiated an agreement
for employment of Polish
sailors on Norwegian ships.
Bulgaria has exported some of
its unemployed to the Soviet
Union. Communist China has
exerted pressure on urban un-
employed workers to return to
their native villages.
“If the myth of no Com-
munist unemployment were
only a propaganda matter we
could note its destruction by
the facts and pass on to other
matters. Unfortunately, that
myth has practical consequences
which plague the unfortunates
who suffer from unemployment
in Communist lands. Since the
official mythology decrees there
is and can be no unemploy-
ment, there is no unemploy-
ment - insurance in these
countries, and the threat of
actual starvation looms before
the unfortunates who- cannot
find jobs in the Communist
‘paradise.’ ”
Various Voices
Khrushchev ; “Understand
us: what imbeciles we should
be if we accepted the unifica-
tion of Germany within Nato
and thus found ourselves con-
fronted by a single capitalist and
militarist Germany in the West
and had against us both
Germanys united.”
* * *
Mr. Dulles : “The Soviet
rulers have again made the
Middle East the centre of their
external efforts and appear to
be engaging in ‘acts, direct or
indirect, aimed at impairing the
freedom, independence or
integrity’ of certain Near
Eastern nations. Ttys is a
risky business.”
* * *
Field-Marshal Lord Mont-
gomery : “I sometimes despair
of getting true political unity in
Western Europe. It seems that
we might get better results by
exploiting trade relationships
with other countries the
economic approach to unity.”
* * *
Milovan Djilas: “Even under
Communism, men think, for
they cannot help but think.
What is more, they think
differently from the prescribed
manner. Their thinking has
two faces —one for thmselves —
the other for the officials.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Boards Should Report
A. suggestion that might lead
to better control of public
funds —and to greater Parlia-
mentary control over the
activities of Governmental and
semi-government authorities —
was made in the Victorian
Legislative Assembly when
Manson (L.C.P., Hawthorn)
urged that all boards, commis-
sions and similar authorities
should be required to report
annually to Parliament.
The extent to which govern-
ment-by-proxy has .gone was
revealed in his statement that
there were no fewer than 107
boards operating in Victoria, of
which 39 only reported periodi-
cally to the State Parliament.
The remaining 68 apparently
are under no obligation to do
so, which means that nobody
cares very much what they do
or how they do it.
By way of contrast, a com-
pany registered under the Com-
panies Act has very definite
statutory obligations to furnish
regular reports to its share-
holders and to the Registrar-
General. If this is considered
essential for privately-owned
corporations, it is equally
essential that boards and similar
authorities, established for
public purposes and supported
by the taxpayer, should render
regular account of themselves
and their activities to the
supreme State authority—the
elected Parliament. — Ardoyne
(Vic.).
Hardwoods
In Australia, and particularly
in W.A. and Queensland, we
have some of the most extensive
stands of hardwood timber in
the world, including what is
“probably the strongest timber'
in the world.” This is yate, or
Eucalyptus cornuta, and in the
W.A. timber tests (shearing,
end-compression, cross-bending
and tension) it easily beat some
dozens of other Australian and
world hardwoods.
Yet I read that Queens-
land shipwrights have imported
from West India at a cost of
Bs. a lb. some lignum vitee.
Why, when, much closer, on
Samarai islands, there is a
timber just as good, if not
better, which has been success-
fully used for stern bearings
and other parts of ships for the
last half-century?
This timber has been
exported to Rabaul, where it
has always been popular and
has been studied by forestry
officers sent up there from
Queensland. The Samarai
tough timber is in plenty, most
wharf-builders use it for piles,
as the marine-borers will not
touch it. I can’t quote the
botanical name of this timber,
but to old-timers in the islands
it is known as Kassi-Kassi. —
Sanasi (Q.).
Third-party Insurance
“T.T.N.” (B. 11/9/’57)
suggests that “it would be
better to limit the amount for
which a motorist could cover
himself —say, £sooo—making
the guilty driver responsible
for any additional amount that
a jury might award.”
Unfortunately it is not only
the guilty driver who is mulcted
in heavy damages by a jury.
In a case in which a person who
suffered serious personal in-
juries on being hit by a car sues
the driver or owner of the car,
the average jury today'always
awards heavy damages against
the driver or owner, even
though a reasonable view of the
evidence shows that it was the
plaintiff and not the defendant
who was the negligent party.
The jury acts on the principle
that the defendant was insured,
and the insurance company
ought to pay the amount of the
verdict. And so long as there
is some evidence on which the
jury could act, no Court of
Appeal will disturb the verdict.
Such injustices will continue
to be done until the law be
amended to provide that all
such cases be tried by a judge
without a jury.—R. Olive
Teece (N.S.W.).
Another angle to third-party
insurance-costs is that the
burden is borne equally by the
conscientious and the careless
or unskilful driver. This means
that the first is paying for the
sins of the other.
What is wrong with a scale
of rebates on premiums on a
no-claim basis? A driver who
has a clear record for, say,
five years is obviously a better
risk than one who has been
involved in accidents during
that period, and he should
be assessed on the merits of
his record.— D. J. G. (Vic.).
Government Bonds
The Federal Treasurer is
urging the public to invest in
Government bonds, and the
public is not responding very
well. Is it any wonder? Bond-
holders are the greatest sufferers
from inflation.
Since the war the Govern-
ment has had to increase the
rate of interest on new loans
to 5 per cent, to encourage new
subscribers, but interest on
bonds bought during the war-
years is still fixed at from 3| per
cent, to 3J- per cent. Some of
these bonds do not mature
until 1965, and in the mean-
time the bondholders, many of
them retired men unable to
supplement their income, are
penalised in two ways: their
income is pegged at a low rate
while prices rise, and their
capital-value stands at about
£B7 on the stockmarket for
every £lOO they have invested.
Certainly the Government is
pledged to repay the whole
£lOO (in inflated money) when
the bonds mature, but that is
small comfort to the bond-
holder who has to sell now to
meet his expenses.
Living-costs have increased
by over 300 per cent, since the
war, and wages and salaries
have risen proportionately ; but
Australian Poetry
I’m pleased that someone
like Nancy Cato (B. 2/10/’57)
is beginning to pull arguments
over Australian poetry back to
earth.
This business of vilifying
verse just because it happens to
have native tints, because it
takes its images and even its
inspiration from local land-
marks, is as silly as condemn-
ing an artist because he paints
the landscape he sees or the
portrait of somebody he knows.
What a vacuum there would
be in music if composers had
shut their eyes to surrounding
geography or the Vienna
Woods! Finlandia would
never have been put into sound
il Sibelius had not loved his
native land.
Why the willingness to allow
legitimate patriotic poetry to
Shakspeare, Scott, Burns,
.Wordsworth and Robert Frost
and yet deny it to our own
authors? Can’t we admit
classicism, romanticism and
intellectualism their place in
poetry,. while maintaining that
the reactions of a man to a
winter night at Woy Woy are
as important as the emotions of
an English or Grecian maid
on a May mornirfg?— John
DAWES (N.S.W.).


the bondholder is still living on
a fixed income. The solution
seems to be for the Treasurer
to raise the interest on all old
bonds to equal the rate paid
on the latest issue. This is not
only fair to the long-suffering
bondholder, but, in the
Government’s own interests, it
would restore public confidence
in loan-buying.—E. W. (S.A.).
Community Centres
One of the much-vaunted
features of British town-plan-
ning on Welfare State
principles was the provision of
community-centres to foster
social activities and friendships
between persons transplanted,
and to discourage class-distinc-
tions.
The idea isn’t working
altogether as planned. At one
of the new towns, Harlow,
there are “common rooms” in
each neighborhood, and larger
community-centres with bars
and clubrooms for all sorts of
cultural and not so cultural
activities, from amateu?
dramatics to rock-’n’-roll and
political meetings.
What is actually happening
is that newcomers to the town
usually leave the community
clubs severely alone once they
have made a few friends.
There is, of course, a nucleus
ot enthusiasts at each centre —
predominantly middle - class
citizens, as is the case in most
towns, planned or otherwise,
and their supporters in cultural
activities, as might be expected,
are also mainly from the
middle-class.
The breaking-down of class-
distinctions at Harlow has not
occurred to any noticeable
degree, in spite of the planners’
good intentions. The town was
originally planned with small
groups of “middle-class”
houses, distinguished mainly by
their size and garages, scattered
fraternally among the lower-
rental dwellings of the
“workers,” so that managerial
staff, the white-collar brigade
and the artisans would live side-
by-side. No one has been
particularly happy about this
idea, and the housing authority
is now selling sites for private
building in an area which is
rapidly developing the
characteristics of the select
residential zone, as happens in
all towns.
In short, the people of
Harlow are finding their own
levels, making as many or as
few friends and social contacts
as they need, forming their own
cliques, and seeking to live
alongside those whose incomes,
social standing and interests are
similar to their own. Which
demonstrates that there are
severe limitations to even in the
best-planned Welfare State;
individuals prefer to run their
own lives and group themselves
rather than be grouped by
planners.— Wusslean (Vic.).
Rates, Racing and Reading
“W.P.T.” misread or mis-
quotes the regulation of his
municipal library (B. 4/9/’57).
The borrower is not compelled
to take a non-fiction book with
a book of fiction —the castor-
oil with the orange-juice kind
of thing. If he chooses he may
take out the fiction book only
and change it as frequently as
he wishes.
But why the scathing attitude
towards fiction, anyway?
Possibly private enterprise
could run a library more
profitably than the Fairfield
(N.S.W.) municipality does, but
then a trotting-track could no
doubt be run more efficiently
by private enterprise. There-
fore, “W.P.T.’s” submission
—that the trotting-track may
eventually pay its way, wipe off
the £23,000 debt which it is
admitted to have cost the rate-
payers, and become a municipal
investment bringing in revenue
—is highly hypothetical.
As another “soaked” rate-
payer I can appreciate the con-
tention that municipal libraries
are not free, but are paid for
by the ratepayers ; nevertheless,
it is a narrow viewpoint. A
pedestrian could complain, with
equal justification: “Why build
perfect roads' for motorists to
use? I walk.” Or a motorist:
“Why waste money on concrete
paths? I never use them.”
Most municipalities employ
gardeners. Much of a council
gardener’s work has no utility.
He produces something to
please, the eye. A library
produces something to please
the mind. If it is reasonable to
object to money being spent
on libraries, it is reasonable to
object to the cost of parks and
gardens.
If municipal libraries succeed
in diverting merely a few minds
from comic-books to literature,
I for one don’t begrudge the
percentage of my rates spent on
library-costs.— Fairf (N.S.W.).
Fission and Fusion
On December 2, 1942, the
first self-sustaining fission-
reactor came into controlled
operation in a nuclear-research
laboratory. Energy was
released in the form of heat.
The use of this heat for steam-
raising and subsequent power-
generation was considered a
future workable proposition.
After 11 years of research
and development the principle
was applied to the prime-movers
of the U.S. submarine Nautilus.
The first trials were held in
May, 1953. Calder-Hall, the
British atom-powered station,
came into operation three years
later.
Uranium - fission power-
stations in operation, under
construction or planned, exclud-
ing Iron Curtain countries, have
a potential total output of one-
million kws.
The two major problems with
this type of power-station are
already manifest. The first is
cost. Energy generated in the
most efficient station will be
at least 2.6 times per unit dearer
than power from an orthodox
high-efficiency thermal station
burning coal.
The second and more vital
problem is the disposal of the
radioactive waste. The one-
million kw. capacity quoted
will produce dangerous residues
equal to the firing of 20 medium
atom-bombs each week. As
some of the active constituents
of the waste have a life of
5000 years the problem of safe
disposal is self-evident.
Scientists have been well
aware of these problems. The
attitude to date has been on a
“see-what-happens” basis. Now
laboratory developments
towards controlling the
hydrogen nuclei have com-
pletely changed the outlook and
led to a sudden upsurge in the
amount of money available for
fusion-power research.
The General Electric Com-
pany has started a basic-
research investigation backed
with several million dollars.
The Texas Atomic Energy
Research Foundation has
joined forces with the Atomic
Division of General Dynamics
Corporation in sponsoring a
four-year programme with a
10-million-dollar budget. The
U.S. Atomic Energy Commis-
sion, the controlling Govern-
ment body, has likewise lifted
its budget to the heights to
meet the cost of the sudden
expansion of its hitherto small
fusion-power team into a huge
research organisation.
The progress in this field
during the past two years
suggests that nuclear-fusion
will be under control by 1962.
Once this is established the
potential in cheap power-
generation is unlimited. The
reactors (hardly the right word ;
fusion-generator is more apt)
will be safe in operation, and
with no radioactive waste.
The particular application


upon which research is con-
centrating in taming the nuclei
of hydrogen may result in
electrical energy being induced
direct by the pulse effect in the
binding magnetic lines of force
used in the control of the
sustained reaction.
Judged by the time-factor in
the case of fission-power, and
the great advance in nuclear
knowledge, the first self-
generating fusion power-
station could be operating in
under 10 years. This would
mean the end of fission-power,
and uranium as well, except for
small reactors producing
medical-treatment isotopes.
There has been much advo-
cacy lately of the need to
establish atomic power-stations
in Australia. Caution is neces-
sary, however, before any con-
crete proposals are adopted.
A “wait-and-see” policy would
be a good idea.
Raw material for fusion
power? There is enough heavy
hydrogen in the waters of
Sydney Harbor, available at
low cost, to supply the con-
tinent’s power-demands for the
next 20,000 years. - Old Open-
cut (S.A.).
Australia and the U.S.
A book could be written on
the differences between the
Australian and American
standards of living (B. 4/9/’57),
but I’d say that the American
working-man takes home three
times what his Australian
counterpart receives for doing
“Get up there at once , Diverson — you’re late for duty.”
the same work. According to
“Fortune,” average pay for a
man in 1954 was $BO a week in
the U.S. and $5O in Canada.
It has certainly increased since
then.
A man doing my job in the
U.S. would be receiving more
than $lOO a week. Out of that
he would feed himself and his
family, educate his children,
run his car, pay his taxes, take
an annual trip and still have
about $lO a week left.. There
would be no need for his wife
to work. His car would cost
him four months’ pay new
($l6OO-2000). For $4 he would
get a tankful of petrol.
The $l5OO demanded by a
doctor for services rendered
would represent a new car.
Therefore, in terms of cars, he
was demanding £AI6OO and
not £3OO, as L. S. Ferres sug-
gests. In American terms, that
doctor was demanding four
months of an ordinary man’s
pay.
The fact is that the
'Americans have got as close to
Paradise as we shall ever get.
No doubt there is plenty of
poverty (principally in rural
areas) ; there are a million or
more down-and-outs ; there is
an enormous criminal popula-
tion of three to five million ;
and unemployment fluctuates
between 600,000 and several
million. But the great mass of
the people working for wages
have a standard of living
equalled in Australia only by
those few people who earn
more than £4O a week.
The causes of this glittering
prosperity are manifold and
are underpinned by a gigantic
industry. Consider some
figures: Coal-production, 600-
million tons a year; steel-pro-
duction, 120-million tons ; car-
production, 6| to 8| million.
Were Australia on the same
level of productivity, the
equivalent figures would be 32-
million tons of coal, 6-to-7-.
million tons of steel, and
800,000 cars a year. Another
factor is the American ability
to do things quickly. Remem-
ber the bases their engineers
built on Pacific islands during
the war?
The present boom also
depends on the fact that the
wealth of the world flowed to
the U.S. during two World Wars
and remained there. They have
become the creditors of the
entire world except for Sweden,
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 457
Across
I—Damages1—Damages are sought for thjs squabble which is not
beautiful. (9)
s—One court described a prohibition business. (5)
B—Mr.8 —Mr. Swan uses Charlie O’Brien’s monogram. (3)
10—Quack by a duck with the half-quart chopper’s vote-bait.
(4, 2,5)
11 — English physicist is all right in the
cultivator. (5)
12— Those who might have done it in
a whodunit and who give you turf
data in religious groups.* (8)
14—Baffled —and perhaps taken away.
(10)
16—Girl with money. (4)
18 — Help a punt. (4)
19— 111-used brewing commodity
about a boy. (10)
21—Bemoaned the French hommes
with Edouard. (8)
23 —Pertaining to the lower
intestines. (5)
25 — Private care is needed for it;
but don’t be straightforward! (11)
26 — Capital building with a non-
specialist ring (initials). (3)
27 — Mark state initials in a metal
couple. (5)
28— Festive cans containing a people
addressed by St. Paul. (9)
Down
1 — Post-office business done with
the honorable state squaw of
great fame. (10)
2 Ellen Kyd spoilt Douglas
Stewart’s play. (3, 5)
“3 —Coins could become objects of
religious veneration! (5)
4 The least substantial film set is
rebuilt. (9)
5 Anything that behaves like an
angry billygoat spread. (6)
6 Very, very little one is. (4, 2, 7)
7 Love us to come to tea? Kick
’em out! (4)
9 —This makes America brew no
spirit like a gnome chamber.
Snap out of it! (7, 6)
13 —The orchestra and I shortened
business with little Otway's
' marsupials. (10)
15—Begin to fish! It’s shocking. (9)
17—Remorseful writer and I have a
temporary shelter. (8)
20— Get back Georgia in check. (6)
21 — Sketch half a hundred in a
manner of speaking. (3)
24—Strikes up whale spawn, but
behaved like the huanaco parent
in the street. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 456


the air of anguished alarm,
Now he was the male domina-
ting his woman, the man-aPthe-
wheel, the pilot at the controls
of the jet-plane, the narrow-
eyed, tight-lipped hero of every
comic-strip he had ever
ingested.
“Your parents are peasants,
aren’t they?” he said.
Myrna uttered a sound
signifying heartfelt agreement;
she was smearing Purple Cherry
lipstick on by the dashboard-
light.
“Not that they’re really much
worse than mine,” continued
Des kindly. “They all belong
to the same mindless genera-
tion.”
“Err-nh,” agreed Myrna.
She folded her bottom lip under
the top one, sucked them
together, and looked at the
result; she smiled, parting the
thick, plum-red shiny lips with
pleasure. Now she was the
female, attracting her man, the
Woman of the world, sophisti-
cated, perhaps even a little
weary of so much pursuit.
“No, you can’t kiss me
again,” she told her lover. “I
haven’t finished my face.” She
brought an eyebrow-pencil out
of her handbag. “I suppose,”
she said, creating belligerent
black crescents, “that age dulls
the intellect.”
He considered this, his chin
sunk on his chest. “It might—
if they had any intellect to
dull. But I’m inclined to think
they’ve been subhuman from
birth. And, of course, they’re
married. I guess getting
married’s a soul-killing experi-
ence.”
“Yes.” Myrna closed
languorous eyes. “Dishes. Cost
of living. Gardening. Grocery-
lists. No wonder they can‘t
live!”
“ ‘I don’t have to remind you
to drive carefully!’ v mimicked
Des. “What do they think
we are? Kids in kinder.?”
“I wouldn’t know. Maybe
they don’t think.. Mother’s a
cretin, but I’d rather have her
cretinous than suspicious. She
believes what I tell her, and
never imagines what I don’t.”
“How could she? She’s
obviously never been in love,
Like we are, Bird. Love’s a
stimulating, untrammelled
emotion.”
“Oh, yes, it is, Des. Our kind
of love.”
“ Sure, our kind. It’s the
only kind. Took —there’s Gord
and his broad!”
He sent the car hurtling
forward to overtake the blue-
and-orange bomb ahead.
It was raining again; the
reflections of the street-lamps
on the wet surface were like
illuminated concertinas being
played by spectral hands. JDes
rested his forearm on the wheel,
holding the car steady as it
bucked potholes purulent with
oily ooze, sending spray hosing
against the windows. Now
Des’s chin jutted, he was the
grim-faced record - breaker,
keeping the speedboat on a
course fraught with the peril
of sunken snags.
“What’s the score, Des?”
asked Myrna.
“Three all. But before this
evening’s out, Bird, it’ll be
four-three. In my favor.”
“Keen. On the way home?”
“Yeah. I’ll fix it at the
party.”
As the rocking car drew level
with the blue-and-orange
bomb, Myrna wound down the
window and yelled: “In a while,
crocodile —you’ll be chicken!”
“''THEY’LL be almost there
now,” said Mrs. Eccle-
stone to the evening-paper. “I
do think it’s wonderful of the
Ridgeweathers, the way they
let Hubie and Raiella ask all
their friends to the beach-
house on Saturdays—and the
way they enter into the spirit
of the parties themselves . . .
why, Mr. Ridgeweather even
does rock-’n’-roll! ”
“I bet he gets a kick out of
it,” commented the evening-
paper, deriving an immoderate
amount of amusement from its
own wit.
r pHE Ridgeweather beach-
house, built expensively on
the steep slope of the cliff,
resembled an alighting ptero-
dactyl in silhouette ; the tech-
nical term for its flaring roof
was “butterfly skillion,” but no
butterfly had ever managed
such a sinister aspect. Tonight
the house blazed with lights and
throbbed with the rhythm of
the Presley records screaming
from within, as the tortured
screams of the pterodactyl,
wounded in some primeval
conflict, might have affronted
marshes of a Saurian Age.
In the sun-room, Mr. Ridge-
weather was cavorting bravely
with a thin girl who shrieked,
in short blasts like a factory-
(Continued on page 56)
Switzerland, Germany and the
Soviet bloc. One result of
their wealth is that it has made
them disliked intensely; but
that is another story. —H. A. F.
(N.S.W.).
The Bomb-owner
Many road - accidents attri-
buted to speed could have been
the result of mechanical failure
(B. 2/10/’57), and when the
Victorian police began their
road-testing of cars some
months ago it was predicted
that “thousands of bombs”
would be swept off the road.
In fact, however, police testing
has proved’ that, generally, the
old-car owner looks after his
vehicle. The Chief Commis-
sioner himself, in a published
statement, paid tribute to the
owners of what he called
“bombs” —or “well-preserved
cars.”
The bomb-owner, he asserted,
is often a family man who
cannot afford a new car, but
takes the trouble to understand
and look after his prized
possession. Such owners, he
pointed out, know a good deal
about car-maintenance; they
do not waste petrol, brake-
linings or tyres; and they
do not waste lives, either.
Summing it up, he said “the
genuine bomb-owner has
genuine ‘motoring conscious-
ness’ .... which is the basic
factor in both law-abidance and
road-safety.”
There would be far fewer
accidents if all motorists took
the same keen interest in their,
cars and in their driving as do
most bomb-owners. No car,
new or old, is safe unless it is
kept in mechanically sound
condition and driven within
the limits set by the driver’s
ability to control it. — Doynest
(Vic.).
Louis Becke
“Jonshaw,” when writing (B.
14/8/’57) that Rolf Boldrewood
cribbed “The Seizure of the
Ingra,” -Louis Becke’s first
Bulletin story, for Chapter X
of A Modern Buccaneer, must
have been unaware that Louis
Becke wrote practically the
whole of the Island part of
that work.
Before me is a first edition
and on the front page the
author writes “I desire to
acknowledge my indebtedness
to Louis Becke, author of By
Reef and Palm, for the South
Sea Island portion of A
Modern Buccaneer, with the
exception of the chapter headed
‘Poisoned Arrows.’ ”
As practically the whole
story deals with the South Sea
Islands, it follows that Becke
supplied the foundation for the
book.
I have 28 books written by
Becke and others which he
wrote in collaboration with
Victor Jeffery, some of which
he gave me —for a considera-
tion. I still have his visiting-
card—“Louis Becke, F.R.G.S.”
—which he handed to me when
he was seeking an interview
with the Chief Justice of
N.S.W., Sir William Cullen,
early in 1911. He called several
times and, being a wonderful
raconteur, it thrilled me even
though I was conversant with
his books. He told me, inter
alia, that he sold to Rolf Boldre-
wood for a mere song the MS.
of A Modern Buccaneer when
he was broke, that he regarded
Wild Life in the Southern Seas
as his best book, and “Hino
the Apostate” as his best story.
Whether or not his auto-
biographical tales should be
taken with a grain of salt is a
matter of opinion. But the fact
is that Becke knew the islands
as few men alive or dead have
ever'known them. He was one
of the rare men who had led
a very wild life and had the
culture and talent necessary to
give account of it. Usually the
men who know don’t write, and
the men and women who write
don’t know.
O. W. CoLEBORNE
(N.S.W.).


RUSSIAN COMFREY
Symphytnm Peregrinum
Giant Webster Strain
A fodder upon which all stock and
poultry thrive. Get the right strain
for protein (33.68% protein has been
obtained) and bulk (124 tons an acre
in Kenya and 99 in New Zealand in
1956). Send stamped. addressed
envelope for price list and my intro-
ductory booklet giving my farm experi-
ments with this crop to pioneer grower.
W. F. SAVAGE.
Green Farm, Red Hill South,
Victoria.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
PERTH ROYAL SHOW
By CHRIS GRIFFITH
WORKMEN were putting
the last touches of paint
to the new £60,000 pavilion by
the oval at the Perth Show-
grounds as the annual Royal
Show opened. This new
pavilion dominates the Show-
grounds and compares with
anything in its line in Australia
But the improvement at this
year’s Royal Show was not in
buildings alone. Sheep entries,
for instance, were considered
the best ever by regular visitors
and by the inter-State judges.
D. Campbell, of Old
Bungaree, Booborowie (S.A.),
and F. Baker, of Goolgumbla
stud, Jerilderie (N.S.W.), com-
plimented the W.A. breeders on
the improved preparation of
sheep. They said that fewer
sheep opened-up to dry, lustre-
less wool.
C. G. Russell and Son, of
Yarling Brook Farm, Wickepin
(W.A.), took the Merino ram
grand-championship, the fine-
wool ram championship, the
medium-wool ram champion-
ship, and the strongwool ram
When marking lambs
it is advisable to start
operations early in
the day to give the
lambs plenty of time
to “mother up” after
the treatment. The
use of Elastrator
Rubber Rings rather
than the knife is also
advisable.
championship a remarkable
achievement.
It was the medium-wool
champion which took the grand
championship, with the strong-
wool ram taking the reserve.
This was the best year for
Yarling Brook in the stud’s
show history, which dates back
to 1929. Yarling Brook won
“It's been ages since I had a hardboiled
newspaperman."
the George Paterson Cup for
most points in the sheep section,
and the E. Lee Steere trophy
for most points in the Merino
section. The Russells also
dominated the wool section,
exhibiting the grand-champion
Merino fleece.
The Merino ewe grand-
championship went to H. Biggin
and Son, of Karagal, Kondinin
(W.A.), with their strongwool
champion. The same stud
paraded the reserve grand-
champion ewe, an extra-strong-
wool exhibit. Since 1952
Karagal has won five Merino
ewe grand-championships at the
Perth Royal Show.
At the Merino auctions,
which followed, South Aus-
tralian Collinsville stud of
John Collins and Sons
bettered even their recent
Adelaide success. They set
a W.A.' record of 4500gns.
for a Merino ram sold at
auction. This figure beats the
South Australian record, set
a few weeks before at the
Adelaide ram-sales, also by
Collinsville, of 3250gns. Also,
it was the highest ever
paid at auction for a South
Australian-bred Merino ram.
Buyers were W. B. Ashby and
Sons, Ashrose, Hallett (S.A.).
Last year Collinsville set the
previous W.A. record of
2800gns.
During this year’s sale,
Collinsville offered 27 stud
rams and sold 23 for a gross
total of £20,763 15s. an
average'of £902 15s. for all
stud rams. In addition, they
sold nine selected Merino ranis
at £lO3 16s. each. Last year
Collinsville topped the Perth
averages, selling 25 rams for
an average of £696 165., and
their selected rams then
averaged £B4 13s.
The N. S. Wales stud,
Haddon Rig, also had a good
sale. Haddon Rig offered eight
rams, selling all this batch for
an average of £879 Bs., top
price 2150gn5., and also sold
four selected rams at £2OB 14s.
each.
In many ways the 1957 sale
was remarkable. In the final
reckoning, all stud rams sold
by the 28 eastern States studs
competing averaged £373 155.,
far eclipsing the previous
record, set last year, of £2BO.
However, the W.A. breeders
showed considerable discrimina-
tion, bidding vigorously for top
rams, but giving not-so-good
importations a cold reception.
With the State’s sheep popula-
tion growing at half-a-million
a year, the extraordinary
demand for rams in the West
is not hard to understand.
In the Dorset Horn section
of the Show, A. M. Dawkins
and Son, of Leamington,
Gawler River (S.A.), won both
the ram championships with
their team of six entries. Both
ewe champions went to E. G.
Morrell and Co., of Wagin
(W.A.), the breeders who won
the A. M. Dawkins and Son
trophy for the most points in
the Dorset Horn section.
This year’s ' Southdown
display drew large ringside
crowds, due to the method of
judging of D. B. Muirhead, of
the S.A. Department of Agri-
culture.
At the invitation of the W.A,
breeders, he spoke as he judged.
He gave his reasons for moving
the sheep up and down the line,
for selecting his champions, for
passing over other sheep. The
departure from standard
practice went down well with
the W.A. breeders.
Muirhead ’spoke well of the
champion Southdown ewe,
which, he said, appeared a
better animat than he had seen
at either of the recent Adelaide
and Melbourne Shows.
The ewe was exhibited by
C. C. E. Orton, of Petworth
Park, Moora (W.A.). The same
stud exhibited the champion
ram.
Muirhead also judged the
Romney Marsh section, picking
entries by R. H. Rose and Son,
of Burekup (W.A.), for both
ram- and ewe - championship
ribbons.
Other championships were
as follows:
Cheviots—T. F. and J. M.
Robinson, York (W.A.), ram
and ewe ; Border Leicester—
R. H. Seymour and Sons,
Meling (W.A.), ram and ewe;
English Leicester —O. G. A.
Tanner, Burges Siding (W.A.),
ram ; W. J. A. Higham and
Co., Williams (W.A.), ewe;
Shropshire—G. C. Burges,
Meckering (W.A.), ram and
ewe ; Suffolks —W. G. Burges,
Burges Siding (W.A.), ram;
E. H. Lee Steere, Toodyay
(W.A.), ewe ; Ryelands—Bet-
voir Estate, Upper Swan
(W.A.), ram, J. P. Stratton,
Clackline (W.A.), ewe ; Corrie-
dales —V. F. Pederick, Wagin
(W.A.), ram and ewe; Pol-
warth rams —A. F. and M. B
Mackenzie (Tas.).
In the auctions, W. V. Seeker,
of Maluka, Happy Valley


(S.A.), set a W.A. record of
380gns. for a Corriedale ram.
Another W.A. record went
to R. A. Hughes, of Longford
(Tas.), who sold a Southdown
for 355gns.—the highest price
paid for a British-breed ram.
In the beef sections, Here-
fords again dominated the
judging by force of numbers.
Well-known Queensland fat-
cattle expert J. Sparks judged
the section, and picked N. $.
and C. C. Fletcher and Sons’
Dirk Brook Bangle IV. a heifer
entry, for his supreme Hereford
animal.
With two generations of
local breeding behind her, this
champion was a triumph for
W.A. breeding over eastern
States’ imported cattle. The
bull award went to Burra
Benevolent, an entry of A. Day,
of Harvey (W.A.).
In the Poll Hereford section,
the story was somewhat
different. There, recently
imported inter - State cattle
walked off with top honors.
Many of the cattle had been
in the State for only three
weeks, being part of a shipment
of 81 stud cattle to arrive from
Queensland by train from F. E.
Lawrence, E. W. G. Mac-
Camley, and S. A. Plant and
Son. Most of the cattle had
already been sold, but the
names of two of the Queensland
owners appeared on the
catalogue.
The bull award, and the
supreme championship, went to
F. Ganzer and Co., of Wagin
(W.A.), with Springfield Banker,
which had been bought at last
year’s Melbourne Royal Show
after winning a first-class
ribbon.
G. H. Garnet, of Gnowan-
gerup (W.A.), paraded the
female champion, a cow from
the Plant stud called Travana
Vanity VIII.
Minninnooka Pty., Ltd.’s,
Minninnooka Butterfly IX,
another heifer entry, won the
Shorthorn supreme champion-
ship from Barragunda Pastoral
Co.’s Minninnooka Idealist, the
champion bull.
E. H. Lee Steere, of Toodyay
(W.A.), dominated the Poll
Shorthorn section, winning
both major awards.
Queensland’s H. S. Corden
expressed disappointment at the
senior Aberdeen Angus bulls.
For a breed so well repre-
sented in W.A., the showing of
only 27 cattle meant that,
rather unfairly, some classes
were represented by only one
competitor.
Corden chose H. A. Tree-
foot’s Sarum Grandeur VII as
his champion bull, the
champion female coming from
the same stud.
Buln Gherin Uranium again
won the Red Poll bull cham-
pionship. The same bull, which
was exhibited by D. G. Walton,
of Toodyay (W.A.), had been
champion last year. J. T.
Evett, of West Midland (W.A.),
won the female award.
In the dairy classes, the A.I.S.
champion cow, Glenavon Fairy
XXIV, a young cow in milk,
was paraded by D. Bevan and
Sons.
Last year’s champion bull,
Summerlea Astra, paraded by
Dunkley Bros., of Capel (W.A.),
again won the bull award.
In the Jersey section, the
champion cow was T. A. Lang-
ridge’s Merreworth Starbrights
Montrose 11, with the bull
championship, going to Sunny-
side stud, Mt. Helena (W.A.).
Muresk Agricultural College
paraded the champion Guern-
sey cow, and J. R. Giles, of
Busselton (W.A.), paraded the
champion bull.
In the Friesian section, a
cow calved on the morning of
the show, but went on to win
the reserve - championship
ribbon. The cow was Valencia
Ruth, exhibited by L. and P.
Pensini and Son, of Mundijong
(W.A.), who were the most
successful exhibitors of
Friesians.
R. S. Irvin, of Toodyay
(W.A.), exhibited both Ayr-
shire champions in a poorly
attended section.
Following the pattern of
eastern States sales, Perth’s
stud beef-cattle auctions fell
rather flat.
The top price for the day was
only 500gns., which was paid
for Dirk Brook Inca, an 18-
month-old Hereford heifer sold
on account of N. S. and C. C.
Fletcher and Son, of Dirk
Brook, Keysbrook (W.A.).
Wool Judgment
“Lough”: A p p r a i s a 1 of
fleece-value on the classing-
table is relatively simple to the
classer and buyer, but estima-
tion of this feature on the sheep
is apparently much more diffi-
cult to the breeder.
In competitions at Hamilton
and Bairnsdale (Vic.), only five
out of 134 entrants placed the
sheep in their correct order.
The greatest need for skill in
this department is at flock-
classing time, when many
owners like to do the job
before shearing rather than
go to the trouble of weighing
and estimating yields of fleeces
during or after the busy shear-
ing period.
Competitions have created
great interest in estimating
fleece-values, but organised
instruction and practice at
graziers’ schools could help to
produce greater skill.
Doubling-up
“Indigo”: During the last 20
years, carrying capacities have
been doubled in many parts of
Southern Australia. The
method has been relatively easy
improved pastures plus
superphosphate. Minor
elements such as molybdenum,
zinc, copper, cobalt and
sulphur, have helped in many
districts where they are needed.
Much land is now ready for
the second doubling-up—four
sheep to the acre which once
carried a wether under natural
conditions. This step needs
more work and more skilled
management, but it can be done
profitably if landholders are
willing to tackle it.
As well as the hack which
can be ridden around two-ewes-
to-the-acre country fairly
leisurely, the second doubling-
up needs a tractor working
most of the time.
Late winter sees preparation
for summer crops, spring is the
beginning of a heavy fodder-
conservation programme, early
summer is oat-harvest time,
early autumn is the topdressing
season, and, during late
autumn, pastures are renovated
and crops sown.
Other big jobs for the tractor
include feeding-out of fodder
and digging post-holes for sub-
division. It may even be used
for sinking dams —a vital part
of the doubling-up pjocess. A
mixture of oats, turnips and
rape makes a good fodder-crop.
Peas can be grown as a catch-
crop.
Doubling-up also means
more shed- and yard-space and
even greater attention to
disease-control. Even so, three
hard workers can do most of
the necessary work to keep 4000
6heep well and happy on 1000
acres —shearing and, possibly,
topdressing being done by con-
tract, of course.
Lucerne Scores Again
“Wyperfield”: With all the
major prizes in Victoria’s 1957
contest for Mallee-wheatbelt
pastures going to stands of
lucerne in contrast to last
year’s majority of wins to
barrel-medic —the “King of
Fodders” has scored another
major victory in a season during
which the going has been
rather tough.
Although the Mallee has had
only two good falls of rain
this year in February and
July—lucerne has outstripped
winter oats and barrel-medic;
and this is in spite of lucerne’s
normal winter dormancy.
“Barrel” germinated fairly
well early, but found the frosts
too severe after the winter
rain.
Early lambs off lucerne were
sold in July for up to £7 a
head, whereas those on other
pasture presented slab sides to
the buyers who were prepared
to offer only 80s. to 90s. for
them.
Another triumph for lucerne
occurred at Melbourne Royal
Show, where Arch and Noel
Mclntosh’s lucerne-fed ram
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(10/10/’57)
Most of Queensland will probably have only light to
moderate, patchy rains during November, although parts of
the south coast and Darling Downs may receive reasonably
good rains. Good general rains are likely in December.
Moderate rains, mainly below average, are indicated on
the coast, tablelands and north-west slopes and plains of
N.S.W. during November. Rainfall likely to be poor else-
where in the State. Good general rains are likely in
December.
Victoria should receive moderate to good general rains
during November, although parts of the Mallee and northern
division may have only light rain.
Reasonably good rains should be received in the central
agricultural areas of South Australia during November, but
the Murray Valley, upper north, west coast and interior
may be confined to light rain. Poor rainfall is indicated in
December.
In Western Australia moderate to good rains may
occur in the south-west corner during November; apart from
average rains in the East Kimberleys, rainfall likely to be
poor elsewhere in the State.
LENNOX WALKER.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order for
....months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’’ to be
posted weekly to —
NAME •* . -
ADDRESS - - -
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
from the dry wheat-country
won a reserve-championship.
With lucerne holding many
drift-liable sandhills together,
the “King” sits squarely on his
throne despite the challenges of
the modern annuals. Unfortu-
nately, lucerne has to be
ploughed-in whenever a crop
is sown on a paddock, and
re-established later. Most
annual legumes re-establish
themselves.
"Silage Made Clear"
The article by “P.H.R.” on
making silage (B. 2/10/’57) is
as good as I’ve read, but as one
of the most persistent
“spruikers” for silage over the
last few years here are a few
points I differ on.
1. Conservation of silage with
modern gear is not usually
slower than hay-makinfe.
2. Silage should be made by
the grazier with an eye to self-
feeding, so l that feeding-out can
be minimised, or avoided
altogether.
3. Less care (and luck), not
more, is needed for silage-
making than for hay-making.
I don’t like “P.H.R.” harping
on temperature - control. It
makes silage sound too tech-
nical. In 49 cases out of 50,
if silage is poor it is because
it has heated too much, so the
rules for the beginner should
be: Don’t worry about
thermometers, cut as early as
you can, spread the material as
evenly as you can, and roll it
as tight as you can.
With no more than this
“ Yair , the willie-willies ARE had round here this dry Weather."
knowledge of silage-making,
hundreds of Victorians made
first-class silage last season,
often testing as high as 20 per
cent, crude-protein on a dry-
matter basis.
Another point I differ on is
his classification of forage-
harvesters.
What “P.H.R.” calls a
forage-harvester is more truly
a travelling chaff-cutter, and
more often than not hasn’t even
a cutter-bar.
What he calls a rotary-
chopper is the only sort of
forage-harvester we are likely
to see in Australia in future.
It is the type to which the
'Grasslands, Lundell, Brady
and latest John Deere belong.
"“P.H.R.’s” figure of 14s. a
ton for silage-making with these
is a mile too high. Based on my
own experience (with a Grass-
lands), 7s. 6d. is nearer the
mark.
Finally, I feel that “P.H.R.”
is making baled silage sound
rather too practical. It is, in
my view, fiendishly expensive,
rough on the baler, and hard
work. The ease ,of handling
later is questionable, and, m
any case —to repeat the point—
any big user should think
primarily in terms of self-
feeding.
Self-fed silage is the obvious
way of levelling-out the terrific
seasonal variation in pasture-
growth in Australia, because
it is so much safer and so
economical.
On a protein - equivalent
basis, silage - making with
modern gear costs a good deal
less than half the cost of hay,
and recent American (Uni-
versity of Illinois) experiments
show that oats harvested as
silage and fed to cattle return
nearly three times as much as
the oats harvested as grain.
K. G. Schoeffel.
Lucerne for Fowls
“Van”: Lucerne - meal (B.
14/8/’57) is undoubtedly a
great standby to the poultry-
farmer, but doesn’t “Billjim”
mean it would replace a per-
centage of the mash or grain,
rather than the meatmeal?
Also, lucerne-meal tends to
retard the growth of chickens
when fed at the rate of more
than 5 per cent, in chick rations.
Whether lucerne is fed as a
meal or green depends on the
cost of labor to feed it green
and the cost of producing it,
compared to the cost of meal
plus a fish-oil. If greenfeed is
cheaper, then it is probably
better to feed it.
An economical way of feed-
ing green lucerne is to grow it
beneath wire-netting in the
fowlyard. The netting is run
over a frame 3ft. wide and as
long as desired, to take 3ft. 6in.
netting. The frame is 6in.
high. The birds eat the lucerne
when it grows up through the
wire, and they can’t hurt the
crown of the plant. The
lucerne will be watered when
the netting is hosea-down to
wash the fowl-droppings away
—and this manures the plant at
the same time.
Wool and Pasture
“Simba”: The furphy that
improved-pasture makes wool
strong dies hard. True, there’s
a smaller proportion of super-
fine in the nation’s clip than
there used to be, and more
improved-pasture, but the two
aren’t necessarily connected. In
fact, more fine wool per acre
(rather than stronger wool),
has been grown as a result of


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/~
Yearly Subscription 22/6
WUNDERLICH SINKS
6MTsni*tes them all
The brilliant NEW range of Wunderlich
Stainless Steel Sinks combines every modern
improvement in sink design. Glistening
high-shine finish, inbuilt quick-drainage
falls in bowls and drainers, anti-spill
beading on all sides, and one-piece
practical size round cornered bowls. Avail-
able with timber backing for easy fixing
over new or old cupboarding or unbacked,
if required. See the NEW Wunderlich Sinks
at your hardware store, Phone MX 2411, or
write to Wunderlich Ltd., Box 474, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for illustrated price list.
The NEW
STAINLESS
STEEL
SINKS.
4252
SEE THEM AT YOUR HARDWARE STORE
pasture-improvement in well-
bred and well-managed flocks.
The fact that the finest wool
could be grown on improved-
pasture was demonstrated many
years ago, on Sir Walter Merri-
man’s property, near Yass
(N.S.W.) ; the practical find-
ings on Merryville were con-
firmed by C.5.1.R.0. experi-
ments in the late 1940’5, and
of recent years, progressive
graziers such as Arthur Beggs,
of Beaufort (Vic.), have
demonstrated over and over
again that fine wool and fine
pastures make a happy alliance.
On his well-known property
Buln Gherin, which has won
soil-conservation competitions
as well as running prize sheep
and cattle, Mr. Beggs has
reduced the size of paddocks
to as little as 20 to 100 acres.
Half a ton of super, to the
acre in six years, plus judicious
use of pasture-harrows, has
trebled the carrying-capacity.
Hereford cattle, as well as a
Red Poll stud, are being used
to handle the coarser feed.
Sulphur for
Jumbucks?
“Cumming”: For many
years sulphur was regarded as
a useless by-product of the
manufacture of superphosphate.
Then came the discovery that
sulphur is needed by some
plants in certain areas of
N.S.W., and its value as a
fertiliser applied mainly as
gypsum (calcium-sulphate)
was recognised.
Now there is a claim from
the U.S.A. that sulphur may be
the clue to shrinkless wool. It
has been known for a long
time that sulphur is prominent
in wool-protein, but now, in
Illinois (U.S.A.), sheep fed
a high sulphur diet have pro-
duced a shrinkless wool half as
strong again as the fibre from
sheep on a normal diet.
The wool was also moie
resistant to chemicals.
High Protein
“Yarto”: If flourmillers are
so keen about getting high-
quality wheat, why don’t they
make a deal with the Australian
Wheat Board to draw supplies
specially from districts which
grow the most protein? It is
easy to find where—at any
rate in Victoria —from maps
published annually by the
Department of Agriculture.
This year’s map shows that
the best wheat in the Victorian
Railways system has been
grown on the Deniliquin area.
Next-best is a slab from Swan
Hill to Kerang, across to
Ultima, and then in a narrow
neck west to Birchip, where it
broadens with the Mildura
railway-line as the boundary.
Unfortunately, some of the
State’s best wheatgrowing
country Horsham-Murtoa-
Warracknabeal - Dimboola
produces the poorest-quality
grain. The Millewa line, west
of Red Cliffs, has three grades
of wheat with the best at
Bambill —possibly off some of
the better pine-belar country
in the vicinity.
Most interesting strip is the
Cress y - Maroona - Willaura
area, which formerly grew the
softest flour, but has gone into
the State’s medium grade.
Sub.-clover ley-farming has
been the chief reason. Better
varieties, better clover-pastures
and better management should
produce better flour in Victoria
during the next few years.
Russian-comfrey
Experiments
“F.”: Russian comfrey, a
new fodder-crop to Queens-
land, is being tested there under
field conditions by the Depart-
ment of Agriculture and Stock.
Later this year, large-scale
trial plantings are planned for
the Darling Downs, Callide
Valley and Atherton Tableland.
V. J. Wagner, chief agrono-
mist in the department, said
that the promise of high yields
of protein-rich fodder has
stimulated Queensland farmers’
interest in the crop. Reports
from overseas mention yields
from mature plantings of 100
tons an acre a year, with a pro-
tein content of up to 25 per
cent.
However, Mr. Wagner said,
the crop has not yet been
grown on a large scale in
Queensland, and very little is
known of its performance under
the State’s conditions. It does
not seem suitable as a grazing
crop, as stock would trample
and damage the crowns. It
also appears to be too succu-
lent for mechanical harvesting.
Cutting with a reaping-hook or
scythe might be necessary.
Three varieties introduced by
C.5.1.R.0. have been planted
at the Redlands Horticulture
Experiment Station, and these
varieties Bocking 4, Booking
14 and Bocking 17 are being
multiplied to provide planting-
material for larger trials. In
proposed bigger plantings at the
Hermitage, Biloela and Kairi
Regional Experiment Stations,
Russian comfrey will be tested
in both yield- and feeding-
trials during the coming season.
From plots at the Redlands
Station, yields from two cut-
tings taken in the first five
months of growth were at the
rate of 11 tons of green
material to the acre. On a dry
basis, it was found to contain
up to 24 per cent, of protein.
Its high-protein and low-fibre
level point to its use as a
protein concentrate rather than
as a pasture.
Some of the harvested
material was used in a palat-
ability trial with sheep. These
tests showed that shade drying
for 24 hours approximately
doubled its palatability.
Russian comfrey is a sprawl-
ing plant with long, broad,
fleshy leaves growing from a
large crown. Plants grown in
Queensland have so far been
about 12in. to 14in. high, and
about 42in. in diameter. It is
grown from root-sections, and
j s ready for the first cutting
about 12 weeks after planting,
For best results, Russian com-
frey requires ample water and
plant-foods,
Mr. Wagner said that Russian
comfrey may be difficult to
eradicate once it has become
well established especially after
*™ n f** .seasons. He
cation has ’ been pr( £ ed pQS _
sible under Queensland condi-
tions, the plant should be
regarded as a potential weed,
This possibility should be con-
sidered before the plant is
introduced into valuable culti-
vations which might be wanted
later for other crops.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.— Divorce.
TO MONA MAY McARTHUR late C/o “Tavistock”
Station Hay N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
GEOFFREY ALEXANDER VERNON McARTHUR
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3457 of 1957
on the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards and is asking
for the exercise of the Court’s discretion under
Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 31st December 1957
and obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from PRIMROSE & DUNN. Solicitors, .of 381 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
The final party given at Government
House by Lieut.-Governor Sir Edmund
Herring and Lady Herring before the
return of Sir Dallas and Lady Brooks was
for 200 guests. The State drawing-room
was made gay with bowls of magnolias,
arum-lilies and pale-mauve iris. Assist-
ing their parents were Mrs. Nicholas
Turnbull and Margaret Herring. The
hostess’s frock of azure-blue silk-organza
featured a fitted bodice and full, finely-
pleated skirt. Mrs. Turnbull’s choice
was a soft-blue wool-romaine frock and
small half-hat of deep-blue feathers.
Margaret wore ink-blue taffeta, the
bodice made with a wide, deep square
neckline, the skirt full and bouffant.
Mrs. Henry Bolte (wife of the Premier)
wore a brown-and-black silk-tweed suit
and a small white cap. The Lady
Mayoress (Mrs. F. W. Thomas) wore
lovely black brocade patterned in red
and gold (the Lord Mayor had bought
the material when he was abroad). Lady
Brock (wife of the distinguished English
surgeon) chose a suit of black silk-
brocade to which she added a small
mauve organza hat. Her daughter
Margaret’s black frock had the skirt
pleated.
☆ ☆ ☆
The suit was a popular choice at the
Caulfield Cup meeting. In its new form
it allows for freedom in the loose, bloused
jacket. Navy-and-white and the soft
Parma-violets were favored colors. The
mob-cap was seen in many guises, and
there were tiny toques made entirely of
flowers, and also large hats swathed with
spotted chiffon to match blouse or scarf.
Mrs. Norman Robinson entertained
at luncheon before the first race ; her suit
was of jacquard-silk in royal-blue and
varying shades of gold. Among her
guests were Lady Herring, who contrasted
her black suit with a wide-brimmed
currant-red straw hat; Margaret Herring,
her choice a carbon-blue suit with a
small matching hat swathed in blue satin ;
Mrs. Henry Bolte, who combined her
husband’s racing-colors in her ensemble:
a black suit with a wide shawj-collar of
white pique, and a high-crowned red hat
finished with a narrow white band.
Among striking ensembles was the
finely-checked suit in pale-lilac and white
worn by Mrs. Ronald Nott with a back-
swept mob-cap of white spotted organza ;
Mrs. A. J. Powell’s citron-yellow silks
patterned with black spots, and her wide-
brimmed, high-crowned black straw hat;
Mrs. Len Buxton's tiny toque massed
with white lilac, which went with a flow-
ing navy taffeta coat; Mrs. Everard
Baillieu’s jumper-suit in pastel-blue linen,
worn with a white straw sou’-wester;
Diana Laurens’s pale-blue printed silk
frock, and wattle-blossom-scattered white
tulle hat; and Mrs. Fred Fair’s navy
suit and matching hat with a wide white
brim.
Lady Herring, wife of the Chief
Justice, has been a delightful hostess at
Government House for her husband’s
term as Lieut.-Governor during the
absence in England of Sir Dallas Brooks.
Before her marriage Lady Herring was
Dr. Mary Lyall, and it naturally follows
that her interest is keen in such organisa-
tions as the Melbourne District Nursing
Society and the Florence Nightingale
Scholarship Fund. Sir Edmund and Lady
Herring have three daughters: Mrs.
Nicholas Turnbull, Mrs. Donald Long-
field (she was Dr. Molly Herring ) and
Margaret.
On Caulfield Cup night the R.A.A.F.
Headquarters officers’ mess held a
cocktail-party, at which the mess-presi-
dent, Group-Capt. D. W. Kingwell, and
Mrs. Kingwell received the 350 guests,
among whom were Chief of Air Staff
Air-Marshal F. W. Scherger and Mrs.
Scherger; Air-Marshal Sir Richard
Williams and Lady Williams; Air-
Marshal Sir George Jones; Air-Vice-
Marshal and Mrs. E. C. Wackett; Air-
Vice-Marshal and Mrs. J. E. Daley ; Air-
Vice-Marshal J. E. Hewitt and his wife ;
Air-Vice-Marshal and Mrs. Douglas
Candy; the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. F. W. Thomas);
Mr. and Mrs. Bert Chadwick; Group-
Capt. P. R. Beare (R.A.F.) and Mrs.
Beare; U.S. Air Force Attache Col.
John Hussey; and U.S. Assistant Air
Force Attache Major L. J. Donnelly and
Mrs. Donnelly.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Voluntary Helpers’ Shop in
Camberwell has been functioning for only
three-and-a-half years, but in that time
it has raised (including the subsidy from
the Federal Government) £96,000 for
homes for elderly people. The Shop
assists homes conducted by five churches:
the Brotherhood of St. Laurence (Angli-
can), the Caritas Christi (R.C.), the Over-
ton Homes (Methodist), Donald Cameron
Homes (Presbyterian), and the Monte-
fiore Home (Jewish). It depends on
generous givers for its stock, and has a
van which calls for unwanted articles.
If you have anything round the house
for which you have no further use, ring
the Shop (WB 1717).
# # V
Mrs. W. K. Burnside, president of
auxiliaries to Prince Henry’s Hospital,
is back home after a six-months’ tour
overseas with her husband. Highlight of
the trip for both was their visit to
Buckingham Palace for an Investiture,
at which Mrs. Burnside received the
0.8. E. for her work with Prince Henry’s.
Mr. and Mrs. Burnside were also invited
to the Royal Enclosure for the four days
of Ascot. They flew home via Canada
and the U.S.
Some fashion-pointers Mrs. Burnside
brought home: the vogue for brown and
all reds, from palest pink through to
deep-fuchsia tonings ; colored stockings,
especially shades of green and brown ;
and the preponderance of seamless
stockings now worn both on the
Continent and in the U.S.
SYDNEY
Attending the National Triennial Con-
vention of the Y.W.C.A. are the presi-
dent of World Y.W.C.A., the Hon.
Isabel Catto, and the vice-president, Dr.
Una Porter. The president of “Y” in
Australia is Mrs. W. W. S. Johnston.
Miss Catto, who is the eldest daughter
of Lord and Lady Catto, of Aberdeen-
shire, Scotland, served “Y” in a big range
of capacities in Britain, Continental
countries, the U.S. and Middle East
before being elected president in 1955.
Dr. Porter, who is an hon. psychiatrist
at Melbourne’s Q.V. Hospital and a
member of Queen’s College, Melbourne
University, has given over 30 years of
service to the association, its continuity
broken only during her medical training.
# #
Founded and organised by Mrs. C. T.
Lorenz, the Australian Stage and Society
Club was launched by Sir James Bissett
(who also fired off a lot of amusing
anecdotes as an ex-mariner) at a cocktail-
party at the club’s rooms at 251 Pitt
Street on Sunday evening. The new


be able to play. After luncheon
Miss Biddulph, Rose, Lester,
Biddulph Pinchard and I took
a very delightful walk to a
brook at some distance, where
we found the wild snowdrop
growing in great abundance
and beauty. I had seen it be-
fore, but never in such plenty.
It was a beautiful afternoon,
and I, for one (and I think all
the party), enjoyed it very
much.
On our return, there being
half an hour to spare, Biddulph
Pinchard and I had another
game of quoits, when I im-
proved very much, playing even
with him. Lester is a first-rate
player, giving either of us 12
out of 21.
There was a dinner-party in
the evening—among others, a
Miss Annie Doveton, some way
connected with the Holroyds—
one of the smallest creatures I
ever saw —rather pretty —and
agreeable. Also a Miss Bad-
cock, engaged to the Miss
Biddulphs’ brother, Tregenna,
and some others —all agreeable
people —above the average of
dinner-parties.
My stereoscope came out
with great force and gave great
amusement. They were just the
sort of* people to appreciate
anything of the kind. Mr.
Shiel, who is engaged to
Rachel Biddulph, was also
there, but he is of course a
constant visitor. They are much
more spoony than Lester and
his fiancee, who are very
rational indeed, making no
parade of their affections before
the public. I think he has
chosen a very good girl, who
will make him a capital wife
for India.
February 4. —R a t h e r a
threatening morning—as if we
should not get our promised
ride today. Miss Annie Dove-
ton is to accompany us. The
day improved, and directly
after lunch we started. Rose
Biddulph and Lester, Anne
Doveton and self rode out by
the railway-station towards
Hestercombe, intending to go
through the park, but missed
the turning and rode up the
hill, through some wonderfully
muddy lanes, and back again
unintentionally on to the road
up the hill.
I having recognised this, we
crossed it and came down on
the village of Kingston. The
church has a very fine tower
indeed, though the body is
spoilt, like all the village
churches about here, by being
whitewashed and the mouldings
of the windows daubed with
yellow-ochre.
We came into the town by
the same road that we left by,
and accompanied Anne Dove-
ton to Harris Hill, out on the
Honiton road. It was a very
pleasant ride, even more so
than on Thursday.
Lester and I got two games
at quoits after our return. In
the evening we had a game that
was new to me—they called
it the American game. Each
person, being provided with
pencil and paper, wrote a ques-
tion in verse. The papers, being
folded up and mixed together,
were given out at random, and
each had to answer in verse
the question they got—again
mixed and dealt out, and each
had to make a remark in verse
on the question and answer.
Some of the results were very
good. After this we had music
and conversation. I have never
met a family party where all
the elements were so good and
mixed so well, and they have
all, I should think, a sound
religious base —more Low than
High church in tendency.
February 5 (Sunday). —A
wet, windy day. Went to Saint
Mary’s—a very fine church
indeed with double side-
aisles, nothing but open seats,
handsome and substantial. The
building is, to my mind, very
much spoilt by texts in Old
English character blazoned
about it. This, as well as the
seating, was done by the late
vicar, a very strong Tractarian.
The present vicar, Mr. Parr,
is quite the contrary. He is a
small, insignificant man, very
boyish-looking, sharp features
and red hair, with a rough,
Yorkshire voice and abrupt
delivery, but, with all those dis-
advantages, a preacher such as
one seldom hears ; with very
short notes his sermon was
most lucid, no running-away
from his subject or repetition.
There was no sermon in the
morning, it being Sacrament
Sunday. I was surprised to see
so many communicants, fully
200 I should think—this looks
well —it was a wet day, too. It
was in the evening I heard Mr.
Parr preach. The habits of the
family put me much in mind of
home —one-o’clock dinner, with
cold meat, etc. After dinner
Lester and I took a walk in
spite of drizzly rain, by
Bishop’s Hull.
February 6. —My last morn-
ing. All the family most
warmly pressed me to stay, but
that I could not do, as my time
is so fully laid out. After
breakfast Lester and I were in
full play at quoits, when we
were stopped by the quarter-
master-sergeant, who said we
must not go on without leave
from the barrackmaster. I
left by the express at 1.27. I
should have much liked to have
stayed longer, for I most fully
enjoyed my short visit.
(To be continued next week)
club, as well as being a meeting-place
for practitioners of Art in its various
guises, will provide a host of amenities
(including practical training and produc-
tions, scholarships, art exhibitions,
lending-library of paintings, etc.).
The world of the theatre was well
r,7?i d til theatre was well
rep e ted. Jikkt ot The
Pyjama Game, wore a black harem-
dress with pink roses. Mrs. Harald
Bowden (wife of the Firm’s g.-m.) wore
a black-and-white silk cape-frock. Lady
Grayson’s black London-silk frock had
the “sack” look, and she contrasted it
with a white felt cloche. Lady Bissett’s
dress beige wool-brocade. Mrs.
Lorenz s frock of black silk and velvet,
which she brought from Hong Kong, had
the front heavily hand-beaded.
Next Tuesday (October 29) at 7.45
p.m. a “film forum” will be held at
Anzac House, College Street, by the
Catholic Film Centre under the posi-
dency of Bishop Freeman. Those in the
discussion will be Mrs. Harry Daly,
Josephine O’Neill, Rev. Father G. Jones
and John Carey. Rev. R. I. Pryke will
be chairman. Questions should be
submitted by October 24.
AUNT PINCHARD’S VERSION
The following is part of a letter from Aunt Pinchard to
Rachel Henning, written in January, 1854, and quoted by
Rachel Henning in a letter dated February 2,1854. It refers
to the same gathering of young people as is mentioned in
John Mills’s diary.
The grirls have some very pretty new dresses. Rose, however,
began taking some music-lessons of Miss Wingrove today. She
accompanies John Lester’s flute and wants a little help.
Bella gave an immense ball last night, the last she is to give;
none of our party were present, all gave it up at my request,
which I consider very good of them.
On Friday, we have a party here. I feel everything is for the
last time that we shall all be together as one unbroken family.
Tregenna and Rose will certainly be gone before another Christ-
mas, if not Rachel. I suppose Kate will live with ns tUI she is
married. If Mr. Arnold* were not a poet and a professed squire
of dames, I should have no doubt of his intentions regarding
Kate. He is now reading for a “first.”
I intend Rose to have a very elegant trousseau, but not many
things, as she will have her Indian q>utfit to get afterwards. John
would load her with presents if I did not interfere. He has
magnificent ideas.
Tregenna hopes to be ordained in June and marry- soon after,
but I don’t think he can be....
Rachel’s love affair [Rachel Biddulph’s] is the most fierce, and
throws all others into the shade. I suppose it is their youth; they
have neither eyes nor ears for anyone else. They sometimes walk
twice a day, and Shields [Shells) slips into the drawing-room
immediately after dinner and spends the evening with us. We all
increasingly like him. There is an honest simplicity in his
character; his face also improves, he is very handsome, in short,
and has a splendid bass voice, a great addition to our musical
quire. His mother is coming to see us at Easter, and then we
shall talk about their future plans.
John and Rose have fixed the early part of August for their
wedding, which will give them a few good months of travel on
the Continent. Rose wishes so much to spend another Christmas
here. We are already beginning to think of the wedding, which
will be on a magnificent scale if John had his way. I really am
not equal to the occasion.
I shall see that Rose is very elegantly and very youthfully
drest. We are to have eight bridesmaids, your royal self among
the number if you will come, and eight bridesmen, all in white
(the “maids,” not the “men”), and Mr. Parr and Mr. Barne to
marry them.
There is a dreadful fear hanging over us, lest in consequence
of the war and the part Persia is taking all officers should be
ordered back to India. John hears from his friends that it is
expected. Being on sick-certifleate, it would not necessarily affect
him, but he has a conscientious feeling that he ought to go,
and the whole matter would then have to come off in a fortnight.
It is too bewildering to think of!
Rose’s habit and hat came home today, a wide-awake and
feather, and they take their first ride on Monday. I know
pride will have a fall.
* Mr. Arnold did, in fact, later on marry Kate Biddulph, and their son,
Edwin fester Arnold (his middle-name apparently a tribute to his friend
John Lester) in 1883 married Constance Boyce, Rachel Henning’s niece.


whistle: “Rock! Rock! Rock,
Man, Rock!”
No one greeted Des and
Myrna, and they didn’t expect,
or want, to be greeted ; they
simply walked in and began
rocking.
Mrs. Ridgeweather was on
one of her rounds ; every half-
hour, she had learned, she must
open doors that had been shut,
and switch-on lights that had
been switched-off. Jn a passage
she stepped carefully over two
prostrate bodies.
“Raiella,” she said brightly,
“why don’t you and Johnnie
dance some more, dear?”
“Oh, go dig a grave,”
responded Raiella. She had
removed her lips from the boy’s
to speak; now she glued them
back again.
“I think perhaps,” said Mrs.
Ridgeweather, “we ought to
have supper.”
Supper, she had learnt, was
a distraction.
She went into the kitchen,
keeping her determined smile
in spite of the pools of tomato-
sauce, Coke-bottle tops, bread-
crumbs and anonymous gooey
substances on the floor and
work-benches. Two girls were
mixing something that smelt
nauseously of onions and cat-
meat ; a strange boy was in-
expertly juggling bread-rolls,
and Hubie, invisible save for
a behind in royal-blue jeans,
was plundering the refrigerator.
“Everybody helping?” smiled
Mrs. Ridgeweather heroically.
“That’s right. I think we might
serve supper in a few minutes.”
Hubie emerged with an
armful of Cokes, shoved the
refrigerator-door shut and
pushed past her into the dining-
area ; the two girls turned egg-
blank faces towards her, and
then away.
The juggler remarked:
“Think again.”
Mrs. Ridgeweather drifted
away. Someone, she saw, had
turned off the sun-room lights.
Vaguely, she wondered if her
husband—you never knew with
men —was still in there with the
thin girl in the dark.
And all at once she was very
tired and terribly discouraged ;
these parties weren’t at all what
she had intended them to be —
merry gatherings of schoolboys
and schoolgirls. There was a
nasty element of Sex about
them, and no merriment. She
had tried so hard to love
Raiella and Hubie, and to like
their friends ; she found herself
disliking her son and daughter,
and loathing their friends. She
went to her bedroom, locked
the door and . the windows,
stuffed cottonwool in her ears,
took a bromide-pill, and sank
into bed.
But when the sun-room
lights had gone off, Mr. Ridge-
weather had unclamped the
frog-cold hands of the thin girl
from his, and edged out on
to the veranda. He was giddy,
wet with sweat, and trembling,
and he craved alcohol. He
couldn’t, he thought, compete
with the kids any more —they
could run their own bloody
parties; he’d never swallow
another soft - drink or eat
another hamburger as long as
he lived, and he’d never
shuffle and wriggle and hop
“You said vacant possession !"
with another of those screech-
ing, blank-eyed girls. He went
out to the garage, climbed into
the car, took the bottle of
whisky out of the glove-box,
and settled himself happily into
the back seat . . .
‘“CNJOYING yourself, darl-
-*-'ing?” asked the man.
“Mm-mm.” Myrna smiled
up at him ; Norm was a square,
and married —that little blonde
wife of his was making the
running with Hubie; but if
Des was going to disappear
with that clueless Vera every
time the lights went out, she
wasn’t going to be left posted.
“Kiss me again,” said Norm.
“I’m unique, you know, in
being a married man whose
wife understands him, and I’m
much too sensitive to be under-
stood. You’re so different,
darling.”
Yes, Myrna thought, she was
different. She was a woman of
mystery, whose enigmatic
smile would madden and
intrigue; around whom men
would flock, only to be rebuffed
by her remoteness. And when
Des came back to her, begging
her forgiveness, she would tell
him: “We knew a beautiful
love together, and you smirched
it. We can never recapture it,
Des —only remember it.”
It was while they were having
a belated supper that Des came
back to Myrna.
“I’ve fixed it with Gord.,” he
said, champing a hot-dog. “The
straight stretch between Lea-
ford and Wavebeach. He’s
leaving at eleven-fifteen, and
we’ll give him time Jo
get to Wavebeach, and then
follow. Hubie and Gwen’ll
flag us in Gwen’s car.”
“Thai’s fine, Des. But who
said I was going home with
you?”
He laughed. “I did. You’re
my girl, Bird.” He pushed the
rest of the hot-dog into his
mouth, and went in search
of another.
“Isn’t he the greatest?” said
the woman of mystery and
intrigue to the girl next to her.
AT five minutes to twelve,
Mrs. Ecclestone, dozing
with her nose on her magazine,
heard the car stop outside the
gate. How adorable, she
thought; Des has allowed five
minutes for the good-night kiss.
She waited, tingling, scarcely
breathing.
In the car, Myrna combed
back her tumbled hair,
scrubbed the last traces of
Purple Cherry off her lips,
spat on the tissue, and began
to wipe the black off her eye-
brows.
“You might’ve known th
peasants’d wait up for you,
Bird,” said Des.
He was the hero, garlanded
with flowers, receiving the
plaudits of the crowd, the
adulation of his woman.
“Yes. Des you were the
greatest the the keenest!
The way you chickened
Gord.! ”
“Aw, it was nothing. He
just is chicken.” He descended
from the car, opened the door
for his woman. “Come on,
Bird.”
He eyed the pencil of light
between the bedroom-curtains,
rammed his hands into his
pockets and shambled up the
path behind Myrna. On the
doorstep, he bumped her cheek
with his nose, mumbled:
“G’night. See y’ soon. I’ll stall
along.”
He didn't wait to see
her in. Suddenly he was
running back to the car,
afraid of the shadow
of the house, afraid of
the peasants within. He
was cold with cringing,
nameless fear.
He was a schoolboy, very
awkward, very uncertain, and
haunted by the memory of
Gord.’s face, distorted and
horrible, as he had seen it
before Gord. had jerked the
blue-and-orange bomb des-
perately over to the side of the
road.
■JV/fYRNA stood in the middle
of the hall, the pimple
now flaring red on her pasty
skin ; she yawned, and scratched
the back of her neck.
Mrs. Ecclestone’s head, like
lumpy porridge with the
curling-pins bulging under the
beige slumber-net, craned from
behind the bedroom-door.
“Did you have a lovely time,
dear?”
“Yes, Mother.”
“Tell me, Myma, did Des
—did he —kiss you, dear?”
“Yes, Mother. G’night.”
Myma trailed off along the
passage.
Mrs. Ecclestone, beaming,
went back to bed, but not to
sleep. She lay in happy wake-
fulness planning the probable
consequences of that first sweet,
shy kiss from boy to girl—all
of them, from the price of the
diamond-ring to the style of the
wedding-gown.


yard with the dogs and poultry.
Cadger got his name from his
habit of waiting at the kitchen-
door in the early morning.
When the first-up opened the
door he or she was knocked to
one side by Cadger, who
bounded into the kitchen and
refused to be put out until he
received a slice of bread-and-
butter with sugar on it. He
would then leave and stand
with his back against the
kitchen wall and eat his titbit
well out of the reach of the
other yard opportunists.
r T'HE Cadger’s Club had out-
side members. Being a
junction-railway stopover be-
tween the main line and the
east coast, all kinds of people
stayed at the little green pub.
People like to talk about them-
selves when in new surround-
ings, and a limited number of
members were admitted when it
was felt they would be of use
in the way of books.
Among the elite of outside
Cadger’s was W. Wood, a
regular Bulletin contributor
under the name of John Dray-
man. He was the publisher and
editor of the “Hobart Clipper,”
a red-covered and bright Labor
weekly. He later was elected to
the Tasmanian Parliament. He
once told me that getting a foot-
ing in the literary world was a
long and hard road. Never-
theless, he encouraged me by
accepting and printing short
stories and pars.
A four-page foolscap hand-
written weekly, “The Cadger’s
Times,” was issued under the
editorship of my eldest sister.
If I may say so, it was good.
Editorials, notes on the weather,
stories, poems, and a page of
topical tittle - tattle. Each
member had to contribute at
least one item each week. The
tell-tale page gave us a grand
chance to get even with the
grown-ups. I am afraid it
turned us into snoopers. We
were unrivalled in such items
as “Why did Ernie kiss the new
girl behind the stable?” No
one was safe.
It was John Drayman who
introduced the Cadger’s Club
to the “Penny Poets,” published
by W. T. Stead, London. Sixty
pages of the world’s most
famous poets, set in solid six-
or eight-point type, for a
penny! With many first issues
by Australian writers, a pile of
these orange-covered “Penny
Poets” occupy an honored
place on my bookshelves.
A/TY sister, who was respons-
ible for the weekly
family-paper, was an ardent
advocate of the betterment of
conditions and wages for
workers. No doubt the eight-
hour work, play and sleep ideal
seems silly to the regimented
unionist of today, but it was
hailed as a great victory when
it came to pass. When the
late Hon. J. A. Lyons came to
Conara to teach at the State
school, he was slender and
brown-haired. He stayed at
our place as there was nowhere
else. It was not long before he
and my sister engaged in warm
political arguments.
Often, in the warm kitchen
on winter nights, with the frost
crackling outside, they would
discuss and debate on the
problem of how best to attain
and serve the interests of
unorganised labor. To their
own satisfaction they put the
world in order, with justice to
all. Heaven knows, the worker
needed a fairer deal at that
time. I firmly believe that
from the kitchen discussions
sprang the future Prime
Minister’s interest in the cause
of labor.
Arising from the regular
reading night, much interest
was taken in anybody who
claimed to be a writer of prose
or verse. They were treated as
beings of another and better
world. To have even a par.
printed in The Bulletin was
equivalent to being in the
honors-list. Proved Bulletin
contributors were entertained
royally by the members of the
Cadger’s Club.
As these things do, word
went out that anybody claim-
ing to be a writer was good for
a free meal at the little green
pub. Writers became as
numerous as blowflies in early
summer. To add to the interest,
the gentlemen of the road, and
they were numerous in those
years, began to catch on.
Coming to the kitchen-door
for food and permission to
sleep in one of the sheds, these
fellows would cunningly start
up a conversation in the course
of which they would casually
mention that they did a bit of
writing at times. Of course
they were looking for work,
Missus, and it’s all good
experience for blokes who
write.
Now and again luck was not
with these literary coves. They
would be met at the back-door
by my mother, whose experi-
ence of these road-gentlemen
was wide and deep. She had
not the slightest interest in
writers as such. In return for
free meals she had a disagree-
able habit of suggesting that
a bit of wood-chopping or
gardening was expected in
return. Bad hearts, rheumatism,
varicose-veins and just very
crook, came to light with sus-
picious monotony. To be fair,
a proportion of the battlers
were glad to earn their tucker.
TTENRY LAWSON called
one midday, swag,
blackened billy and dog. None
of us had ever seen Henry
Lawson in person, but his
printed portrait had fixed in
our minds his heavy moustache.
This caller had a heavy
moustache, and a noble stubble
of beard, decidedly gingerish in
tone.
This Henry was met at the
back-door by the editor of the
“Cadger’s Times.” When
Henry, in true Mitchell fashion,
at last revealed that he was
The Bulletin’s Henry
Lawson, excitement ran high.
He was ushered into the
kitchen, seated, and fed with
the best going. Nothing too
good for Henry Lawson.
Remembrance took the editor
to the bar,'Where she paid for
a long beer. Henry was
delighted, and made such short
work of the brew that another
was bought and placed before
him.
It did seem that he was the
real Henry.
However, good plans come
unstuck when the foundations
are bad. This Henry was
rather a blowhard, and when
probed did not know much
about The Bulletin writers
and poets. When an autograph-
book was produced Henry
seemed at a loss. Still, he’d had
two long beers and a good feed,
so there was nothing to lose.
Gripping the pen in a big,
soiled fist, he wrote in a half-
inch sprawl, “Henery Lawsin.”
Somehow, this did not seem
right. Surely Henry could spell
his own name? A coldness
settled over proceedings, and
Henry, sensing the frost,
departed.
The bogus Henry had done
his brethren of the roads a
grave disservice. All back-door
callers were faced with no
work no tucker. The Eldorado
had petered out.
Years later I met the real
Henry Lawson in George-
street, Sydney. I was talking to
Dowell O’Reilly, whose verse
in The Bulletin I admired,
when who should come up but
Henry Lawson. He * had a
word or two to O’Reilly, who
shook his head sadly. Being
young and on my way to
Inverell to edit the “Argus”
there, I obliged. I have on the
back of an envelope one of
Henry’s famous 1.0.U.s for
two-bob.
They were good days. Days
when country families were
thrown upon their own
resources for entertainment. I
am glad that my reading habits
were formed before so much
trashy rubbish flooded the book
world. A good book never dies.
It is read and re-read, treasured
like a good friend.
POEM FOR A CHILD
The diminutive pedestrian balancing on the kerbstones
ahead is little Miss Blue Tamoshanter
who left for school twenty minutes ago.
It is obvious I shall race her.
She is testing a frozen puddle with a shoe
and apparently enjoying a conversation.
Although I have no wish to do so,
I startle her as I pass,
footfall silent on the frozen grass,
and make her jump, and give a cry
like a bird-call muffled in a tree.
She checks her gestures, so unselfconsciously
delightful, talking to an audience I cannot see.
The dream is ruined and the reverie
completely shattered. Guiltily
she trots along the asphalt schoolward after me.
N.Z.
W. Hart-Smith.


superlative of their greatness. They
even transcend the best exhibits of
French cubists and post-impres-
sionists . . .
Enough of Professor Surat. He
consigns himself to the ethnological
wastepaper-basket by presenting him-
self as the prize exhibit of a lost
civilisation, which has crashed the
French people backward in time more
effectively than any impact of a moon
on the earth’s crust could hope to do.
Periodic cataclysm can be no
concern of ours, other than a fascinat-
ing problem for geologists to investi-
gate. The earth is now in a stable
continental period, and safe enough
from a cosmic catastrophe. Whether
it is safe from a man-made one is a
very eminent problem which today
engages the perturbed meditations of
mankind in general.
Since Plato’s account of the destruc-
tion of the Atlantean civilisation is
now accepted as an historic document,
and by the underwater searches of
Jurgen Spanuth the sunken island of
Atlantis has at last been located, with
its canals, harbors and city foundations
still extant precisely as described by
Plato, the authenticity of his account
of its destruction must be accepted,
too. This was due to a communistic
uprising of the lower orders who
destroyed all the higher classes in
whom are vested the powers of govern-
ment. social order, cultural achieve-
ment in all its forms and an enlightened
knowledge of man himself and the
conditions which surround him. And
in a final holocaust of civil war they
destroyed the island of Atlantis
itself . . .
There is only one way whereby a
man-made cataclysm of that sort may
be brought about, and today man has
the power to repeat the debacle of
another civilisation, as he did 12,000
years ago. A depressing subject to
emerge from the buffooneries of a
Professor Surat and his fellow moon-
crashing fantasy-mongers.
Satellites and Rockets
Once Round the Sun, by Ronald
Fraser (Hodder and Stoughton), dedi-
cated to the next generation, tells the
story of the International Geophysical
Year. Secretary of the body which
organised the 1.G.Y., the International
Council of Scientific Unions, the author
deals with the present extent of world
knowledge in the various geophysical
sciences being investigated, the work
and preparations made for the 1.G.Y.,
and some of the results aimed at.
He covers the artificial satellite in
his chapter “Rockets and Satellites”—
calmly and dispassionately, which
emphasises that it is only one particular
aspect of I.G.Y.
Before the satellite was possible the
rocket had to be perfected. Though
the satellite has the glamor, the rocket
has also an important I.G.Y. role to
fulfil. More than 200 are to be fired
by the U.S. alone during the 1.G.Y.,
carrying instruments to record winds,
cosmic rays, etc. The main dis-
advantage of the rocket for upper-air
investigation is its short life.
Hence the idea of the satellite, which
is in reality a “long-playing” rocket.
But the launching of the satellite is not
possible at all without the rocket. To
put a satellite in a stable orbit requires
that it be launched horizontally, with
a precision of less than a degree—-
which has to be done by a rocket.
The American satellites, the ones
discussed by Fraser, are to be launched
from a huge three-stage rocket, the
Vanguard, which is finless, 72ft. long,
45in. round and weighing 11 tons. The
Vanguard is designed to be launched
vertically, and then to move away at a
45deg. angle.
The first stage, burning a mixture of
liquid oxygen and alcohol, drops away
36 miles from base while the rocket
is moving at 3600 m.p.h. The second
stage, burning nitric acid and hydra-
zone, carries it on 140 miles from
base, reaching 11,000 m.p.h. at burn-
out. The vehicle then coasts onwards
until, flying horizontally, it is 300
miles from base, where the second
stage separates. The third stage,
charged with “a solid propellant,”
boosts the speed to 18,000 m.p.h. 1500
miles from base. Then the satellite
itself, carried in the nose of the third
stage, separates, and from then on is
on its own; it is to be spherical in
shape, 20in. in diameter, weighing
201 b.
The orbit, speed, time of rotation,
etc., of the projected American
satellites, as given, seem to tie-in well
with the corresponding figures for
Sputnik. The reason why the orbit of
the satellite will be displaced westward
(the case with Sputnik) is that the earth
has turned eastward beneath it between
each successive transit of the Equator.
Apropos, the extra gravitational pull of
the earth’s bulge at the Equator also
speeds-up the satellite.
An instrumented satellite will be
able to take observations on tempera-
ture and pressure of the outer atmos-
phere, on solar radiation, on meteor
swarms, on cosmic rays, etc. —and
science will have facts to go on instead
of the present “crude guesses.”
The launching of the satellites by
Russia and America, the author insists,
is not a stunt, nor “a competitive item
in a ‘space race,’ but an integrated
part of the overall programme of the
1.G.Y.”
Men and Monkeys
There is a tribe of natives in the
Celebes who believe—and very likely,
too —that they are descended from
the famous Celebesean-ape, a virtually
tailless, baboonlike creature which has
WORDSWORTH IN BAROSSA
Behold yon social Silesian lass, _
With her plaits and apron, dirndl,
draught-horse thighs,
Sitting on top of the sloping German
Sighing and creaking and rolling her
eyes.
She smells like an unwashed sherry-
gj ass?
Bears her children in the coolness of
the vines
Shears sheep, fights off men in the
picking season, .
Helps the vertical parson tnm the
churchyard pines.
„ . _ . _ . ,
I sing her praises from Klemzig to
Lobethal
In tones, I hope, of barrel-chested
brass,
Like a gumtree Jean-Jacques I
mourn her rule
To be brought demure to a sheeted
bed at last.
O Seppelts, Cramps, Smiths and Rudi
Burings
Who give dry minds the sight of
Elysian Fields,
Emblazon her name in Latin above
your doors,
Figure her rampant on your winery
shields.
George Fife Angas brought her to the
Valley,
For Silesian women were famed as
shearers of sheep;
Their hands clicked neat down the
P a^Pat * n B bellies,
And besides he found them particularly
cheap.
Our South Australian colony of
inebriate Pommies
Was saved by their brawn in 1844.
Without them we’d never have made
our gent j e mo ney,
But the Frau and the horse aren’t
needed more .
Behold her then from the Pioneer Bus
Bdrosss
Behold this last virgin reddening in
the sun>
Everything changes, even love and
economics.
The days of her rumpy loving are done.
S.A.
Max Harris.


an extraordinary topknot of long stiff
hairs that can be erected at will,
“giving the animal a most bizarre
expression.”
But on the other hand there are
natives of the equatorial forest of
Africa who maintain, with equal
probability, that the gorillas who eat
their banana-crops and occasionally
seize the last man of a procession and
bite his behind are not monkeys at all
but “a kind of sub-man who has
slipped backward into a more primitive
way of life.”
Thus whether men are descended
from monkeys or monkeys descended
from men remains an interesting
philosophical problem in Ivan T.
Sanderson’s The Monkey Kingdom
(Hamilton); and this reviewer, for
purely personal reasons, would prefer
to leave it unsolved. The one thing
that does appear certain is that
monkeys are growing more like men
every day, and, in a world already over-
populated, perhaps it would be as well
if the scientists stopped experimenting
with them.
It is all very well to learn from
Sanderson’s fascinating pages that
monkeys in their wild state have many
manlike characteristics: that the
howler-monkeys of South America, for
instance, besides howling all night and
all day in a way only to be matched
by the human radio-set or baby, will
all cease from howling and swinging
through the treetops to help search for
a lost or fallen infant. It is not particu-
larly disconcerting to find that baboons
are natural water - diviners; that
Sanderson’s pet cat-lemur liked to visit
all his other pets and hold hands with
them, and could also turn on taps , and
give itself a bath; that his red-uacari
liked to sleep with a doll; nor even
that pygmy marmosets constantly
chatter and twitter in an enormous
and partly supersonic vocabulary which
Sanderson has no doubt is an
intelligible language:—
All Hapaloids make an astonishing
number of different kinds of noises,
from high-pitched keening sounds
that carry extraordinary distances,
and seem to penetrate a listener’s
head, to all manner of twitterings,
chirrupings, squeakings, mumblings,
chatterings and other sound-
combinations both regular and
irregular of a kind that cannot be
described in words.. Not only are
the various sounds obviously
employed under special circum-
stances or for special purposes, but
they seem definitely to be used for
the communication of information.
These marmosets, it appears, have
a definite word for “milk,” and when
they say “milk” it is no use giving
them water.
But if nobody minds such infinitesi-
mal creatures chattering away about
milk and water it is a very different
matter when small Capuchin-monkeys,
originally from the jungles of South
America, can be found, as Sanderson
has observed them, enjoying the movies.
Then there was the chimpanzee which
starred in “The Illustrated London
News” because it used a screwdriver,
hammer and nails to mend a broken
stool, which it then sat upon. And —
worst of all, for art is man’s last line
of defence —there is the Capuchin again
(it has a highly convoluted brain
“rather like our own”) which painted
pictures with colored chalks . . . not
quite Vermeer, indeed, but apparently
every bit as effective as most
contemporary abstracts:—
in a manner that was not
purely random but involved group-
ing the colors together in sweeping
curves or almost straight lines and
then surrounding the results with
regular configurations of other
colors.
It may be some consolation that the
irritable slow-loris which lifted Sander-
son’s electric typewriter off a desk and
held it aloft for ten minutes at least
didn’t write a book with it; but the
day may yet come. Sanderson says
that the first man to get to the moon
will almost certainly be a rhesus-
monkey. These creatures, he says in
a most alarming paragraph, “have
already reached the upper atmosphere
in experimental rockets” . . .
Perhaps the most curious fact of all
is that nearly all monkeys have an
extraordinary horror of small rounded
objects such as eggs, pebbles or cakes
of soap. The pygmy Guenon “views
them with considerable alarm”; the
marmosets get equally upset. It might
well be maintained that the monkeys,
being degenerate men, have an
ancestral dislike to anything resembling
a bomb; but on the other hand —
though that would not make them less
human —it may merely mean that they
don’t like soap.
Sanderson’s own contribution to the
elucidation of this problem—one
hardly knows whether to welcome it
or not —is to assert that man is not
a monkey but a mouse; or, to be
precise, the tree-shrew of Borneo and
Malaya known as the Tupaia. This
detestable little creature, which has a
long snout and suffers from an almost
hysterical curiosity, is the oldest living
primate; and, some few years ago,
when it gave up eating with its snout
and started using its hands, it, or its
relatives, began to evolve into the
human race.
Readers who have similarly evolved
will find their curiosity most amply
rewarded by Sanderson’s book, which
is large, handsome, comprehensive and
kept alive in the midst of its
encyclopedic information by the
author’s anecdotes of his own pet
monkeys. It is lavishly illustrated with
photographs, many in color and some,
such as the orang-utan in plate 76
and the ineffable proboscis-monkey in
plate 63, quite intolerably human.
Reviewed Briefly
Engravings on Wood: E. Mervyn
Taylor (Mermaid Press, 71 Hatton
Street, Wellington, New Zealand).
Beautifully printed for the publishers
by the Pegasus Press, Christchurch,
this is a fine collectors’-piece. Mervyn
Taylor’s wood-engravings—practically
a lost art in these latitudes since the
various slick commercial techniques
replaced it —are comparable to those
of Clare Leighton and Robert Gibbings,
and, in design, though without his
richness of observation, to Lionel
Lindsay’s woodcuts. His themes are
of New Zealand birds and the bush
and, in some particularly effective
plates, Maori legends. The edition is
described as “limited”, (number of
copies not stated); and the New
Zealand price is two-guineas.
* * * *
A History of New Zealand Life:
W. P. Morrell and D. O. W. Hall
(Whitcombe and Tombs). Even in a
country with so brief a history as New
Zealand the problem of the official
historian, who attempts to cover every-
thing from “Maori Life Before the
Coming of the White Man” to “Defence
in the Post-War World,” is how to be
simultaneously compact and colorful.
The authors, who have written this
book for schools and the general reader,
have not found it possible to work-in
much colorful detail, but there is some
compensation in a fine set of historical
photographs, and some quotations
from diaries and journals help to
enliven the pioneer period. In general
it is plain, comprehensive and well
balanced.
* * * *
Expedition South: W. Ellery Ander-
son (Evans). The author was leader
of a twelve-man base at Hope Bay
in 1954 on an expedition for the
Falkland Islands Dependencies Survey.
With dogs, seals, penguins, blizzards
and ice. Two unusual stories are of
men being carried away in the swift,
treacherous tides: one, an Argentinian
who went out in a dinghy, propelling
himself with a single oar, to look at a
tide-gauge, was swept away and lost;
the other, a member of the same
expedition as Anderson, was carried
away in a dinghy with an outboard
motor that wouldn’t start. He drifted
ashore after fourteen hours and,' with
difficulty, walked home.


—4
m
i?--^
%
- - <*■ _y*n W
r^?s?=
'VS*
> _ - =s
• -=»? ■'^^r 1 -— '^ _ -—=TZ
*^¥>feafc&&3?=^ art^aiS^.
He will foe
carrying' oil . . .
The emphasis these days for the man on the
land is CONSERVATION of soil, fodder
and stock. Scientific study of agricultural
problems has revealed ways of improving the
quality and quantity of output and of CON-
SERVING THE FERTILITY OF THE
LAND. More and more research is being
undertaken to help the man on the land conserve
and consolidate. There is, however, a more
pressing problem—THAT OF CONSERV-
ING HIS ESTATE; making sure that upon
his death his property may pass on to his
Beneficiaries unencumbered by death duties.
Land values today are higher than they have
ever been, yet paradoxically the growth in value
has increased the liability, for there is one debt
that cannot be escaped—DEATH DUTIES.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited, “The M.L.C.,’’ has for
many years specialised in the field of ESTATE
CONSERVATION, and has developed an
attractive range of policies especially suitable
for the purpose. In some cases the amount
required to pay Death Duties is considerable,
and the M.L.C. offers a specially reduced
premium rate for higher-than-average require-
ments —this premium rate is one of the lowest
available in Australia today.
Particulars will be readily supplied without obligation upon request. Learn more about THE
M.L.C. ESTATE CONSERVATION PLAN as it concerns you personally. Contact your
nearest M.L.C. man for further details or drop a note to the M.L.C. at Sydney (G.P.O. Box
J 598) or the nearest M.L.C. District Office.
Be Well Advised by the M.L.C. Man
ML7SA/FP
The
M.L.C.
(imrpmitd in JHJ.W.)
The MUTUAL LIFE and (MENS -
Assurance Go. Limited
