

n
m
e
nm
SOLERO
SWE E T O R DRY
n
The Bulletin
A GREAT SCHOOL'S CENTENARY — PAGE 27
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 78—No. 4020
Wednesday, February 27, 1957
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
No. 338: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
MONUMENT OF THE ILL-FATED BONNIE PRINCE CHARLIE. GLENFINNAN
PRINCE CHARLES EDWARD STUART, better known as Bonnie Prince
Charlie, leader of the Rebellion of 1745, is commemorated in Scotland by
the monument which bears his name on the shores of Loch Shiel at Glenfinnan
in Inverness-shire. It marks the spot where, on August 19, 1745, the Young
Pretender landed from a ship and unfurled his standard for the great adventure
which was to end eight months later on the field of Culloden. The monument
was erected in 1815 by Alexander Macdonald of Glenaladale, a descendant of
one of the Prince’s most devoted followers.
In 1745, nearly 60 years after James II fled to France, King George II
sat on the throne of Britain. There were many secret glasses raised to toast
the health of the exiled “King over the water” —the man whom the
Jacobites regarded as the rightful King James 111 of Britain. The Stuarts were
the native Royal House of Britain; they had been kings of Scotland since the
14th century. And now, in August, 1745, a French ship crept quietly to its
anchorage on the Inverness-shire coast. On board was Prince Charlie, come
from France to claim the throne on behalf of his father. The Rebellion of
1745 —the “Forty-five,” as it became known to history-—had begun.
The tale of Prince Charlie's wild adventure is one that will never die, and
many people each year visit Scotland to follow the course of the story on
a pilgrimage that takes them through some of the wildest and grandest parts of
the Highlands and Western Isles. Visitors to the monument at Gleniinnan
may climb the inside stairway to the summit where stands the statue of the
Prince gazing - towards the glens that were to lead him from this remote
spot to Invergarry, Dalwhinnie, Perth, Stirling, Edinburgh. Carlisle, Derby
and the final shattering of his dream. At Derby he learned that King George
had two armies moving against him, and, accepting the inevitable, he began
his retreat.
He won a skirmish at Falkirk which raised false hopes, but on April 16
Came the final debacle on Culloden Moor, near Inverness. After the defeat of
his forces, Prince Charlie began his hunted wanderings through the Highlands
and Western Isles with a price of £30,000 on his head. He escaped to Skye,
disguised as .a servant, with the aid of Flora Macdonald, and he later boarded
a ship and sailed for France from the spot where he had landed near Glenfinnan
so full of hope a few months earlier.


UOOKHUNTKK. |j ox 2671, 0.p.0 Svdnev
A service for readers. That difficul to obun
bi. M D ahv tn, fimJ text °£S«
citsful '■ b 1 etc Moderate fee only it sue
The Red Page
MAO'S BLUNDERBUSS
The title of Denis Warner’s Out of
the Gun (Hutchinson) is taken from
a neat little Communist saying by Mao
Tsz-tung: —
Every Communist must grasp the
truth ; political power grows out of
the barrel of the gun... . Anything
can grow out of the barrel of the
gun.
Even Mr. Warner, whose experience
both of war and Asiatic Communism
is catholic and varied and more than
decade-long, must feel by this time
that he himself has been born of a
gun-barrel.
He saw World War II through
as a very capable and active war-
correspondent. He was in Japan
during the Occupation, in Korea during
the northern invasion, in Malaya
during the palmiest days of the
Communist underground.
He saw the defeat of the French in
Indo-China and the all-round diplo-
matic defeat of the European nations
in general by the astute and ever-
advancing tide of Reds from the north
and west. He has seen one Oriental
stronghold after another held by
nations which have thought them-
selves technically advanced, which
understood war only when fought in
an age-old frank and straightforward
way, crumble under patient eroding by
Communist techniques applied from
within and without.
He has seen the military triumph of
the plodding multitudes of illiterate
coolies, providored with a handful of
rice and armed with a sockful of
cartridges and a - burp-gun, over the
expensive mechanised ingenuity of the
heirs of the new world. And he has
observed at first hand —sometimes with
bullets passing through his hair—the
almost endless underestimation and
subsequent overestimations ~f specific
situations which began with Western
contempt for the ragged Communist
planners and their handfuls of followers
and ended in fatal overestimation
which attributed almost magic powers
to the Red victors:—
.... ignorance, underestimation and
its natural heir, overestimation, have
been a trio of diseases debilitating
efforts to halt the spread of Asian
Communism.
Also, it may be added, any other
Communism.
Mr. Warner has met all the over-
estimators and underestimators. He
knew, under fire, the Americans of
July, 1950, undermanning a front with
an understrength infantry battalion
and a brigadier of advanced echelons
who exclaimed that, “these Commie
so-and-sos will run when they find they
are up against our boys—we’ll be in
Seoul by the weekend.” He saw the
Americans overrun; but he also saw
their highly-developed forces waste
their chance ten months later when
both the Chinese and the North
Koreans had been fought to a standstill,
though the West refused to believe it.
He saw the French underestimate
and underestimate till the Viet-minh
coolie-gangs with supplies on bicycles
and tricycles and a few hundred lorries
dug-in all round them and blocked
them in and immolated them. The
French command meanwhile yearned
aloud to be attacked; but when attack
presently came it destroyed the French
Union force, producing complete
defeatism in Paris and the West and
an all-in surrender. This, though
Western strategists “for years had
protested that Indo-China was the gate-
way to Asia, and that to abandon it
might jeopardise the security of the
whole continent.”
Mr. Warner remembers the British
High Commissioner in Malaya who
around 1948, used to snort with
irritation when warned of the danger
of Red uprising, embellishing his
contempt with the remark, “You
people see a Communist behind every
bush.” He observed the subsequent
excess or pessimism which was
scotched only when Sir Gerald Templar
came in and proved that the Com-
munists were not infallible. He watched
as overoptimism then allowed the
remaining Malayan Communists to
consolidate their hard core into
permanency, with their headquarters
firmly established across the border in
the feebly-ruled dominions of southern
Siam.
This is the story all through, the
formula repeated again and again. The
author is an unusual Australian
journalist in that he really understands
Communist political and military
theory and has a pretty good grip of
the double-talk which says what it
means clearly to the Communist and
cloaks the meaning to the Western
European, to whom the same words
signify something entirely different. He
also understands the infinite Oriental
patience which lies behind both the
Chinese strategy and tactics. He
quotes Mao Tsz-tung ridiculing the
concept of trying to win wars by quick
victories:—
The ten years’ revolutionary war
we fought may be surprising to other
countries, but for us it is only the
preface, with many exciting para-
graphs yet to follow. The plucky
determination to wipe out the enemy
before breakfast is good, but any
concrete plan to do so is inadvisable.
In contrast to the Japanese, who tried
in vain to impose an alien domination
on the people of Asia, the Communists’
technique is to generate revolution by
radiated power, eschewing the risks of
overt aggression, or minimising them
by using the stratagem of “volunteers.”
He says that the theoristic conviction
of some people that the Asian Com-
munists are not really Communists at
all has no real pertinence to the situa-
tion in Asia because the Chinese Com-
munists themselves believe they are
“true-blue or red.” Recognising the
leadership of the Soviet Union, they
are working to Mao Tsz-tiing’s strict
revolutionary and power-formula, to
which the West and the friendly East
“must find an antidote if we are to
survive.”
Treated as a war-adventure book
with its well-drawn and vividly-
experiehced incidents sprinkled with
kamikaze dives and banzai charges
seen at first hand, “Out of the Gun”
makes exciting reading, and it is a
mine of information about Eastern
war and technique of battle. It
presents a terrible picture of the ruin
which Communism has wrought on the
wretched countries of Eastern Asia so
close to us that their shadows almost
fall across this continent.
In another context, which reaches its
culmination in a chapter called “Peace
—a Weapon of War,” he elucidates the
rarely-explained double-meaning of
the word “peace” as used by East and
West.
“Peace” as it is used by the Com-
munist as an aspiration means peace
secured through revolutionary war. No
Communist theorist is ready to conceive
that any other kind of peace can be
effective. Mao paraphrases Lenin:-
.. the toiling masses cannot defeat
the armed bourgeoisie and landlords
except by resorting to the power of
the gun ; in this sense we can even
say that the whole world can
be remoulded only with the gun. As
we are advocates of the abolition
of war, we do not desire war ; but
war can be abolished only through
war —in order to get rid of the gun
we must first grasp it in the hand.
There is the fixed theory. Peace
gained through the gun used in war;
peace maintained through the gun
pointed at the nape of the neck of
every servile citizen. Seoul and Dien
Bien Phu; and then Tongking at
“peace” with 15 divisions keeping it
peaceful. And, of course, the peace of
Hungary which, as the Turks used to
say of the Armenian peace, “has its
home in the grave.”
According to Communist theory the
world is to be carried to “peace” on a
rising Communist tide of hate and
cordite-soaked ferocity aided by a lack
of common policy among the careless,
arguing Western nations on the one
hand and by an unlimited supply of
Asian gun-fodder on the other, the
Asian Communist being “an extra-
ordinarily good soldier,” magnificent in
victory if less worthy in defeat.
Mr. Warner thinks Communism will
not be defeated in Asia unless China’s
show of power is matched by a demon-
stration of similar strength.
His book is one which can be read
by every complacent Australian with
advantage and enlightenment. It is
easy to read.
M. H. E.
Short and Long
The reviewer with a conscience (for
the sake of argument) must often worry
over the future of short-stories that
fall on the border of poetry and prose,
as do those in Immanuel’s Land, by
Maurice Duggan (The Pilgrim Press,
Auckland); beautifully written, with a
subject-matter, as well as a use of
words, more the material and treatment
of the lyric than of a narrative, they
are put out in such exquisite books
as this, with a few words of praise
from “The Times” on the cover—and
there, presumably, an end.
There are several stories about
teaching-Brothers in a Catholic college
—a very good one about a sadistic
Brother who goes too far with a
backward, overgrown lad and gets
beaten-up; the worry of the Brother
Superior, how to handle thd matter is
very well done—and there is another
series about a family of Lenihans, how
the boy and girl received their new
for instance, and especially
how Harry went on a wild bus-ride
with a party of drinking Maoris off to
a dance; and in “Towards the Moun-
tains” there is a court-case involving
two boys and a girl who went shooting
goats: all of it fine, fresh writing.
The only solution is for Mr. Duggan
to write several long and involved
novels, and then, as with Ernest
Hemingway, all the world will read his
novels and remark that they are not a
patch on his short-stories. The main
thing is to get all the world interested.
For Gardeners
Reprinted in a revised and enlarged
third-edition, Ernest Lord’s Shrubs
and Trees for Australian Gardens
(Lothian) is as useful as it is. enormous.
Between Dr. J. S. Turner’s foreword,
which, though a little confusing about
humus and mycorrhiza, is a masterly
condensation of the physical make-up
and functions of the various parts of
a plant, and the index of over 5000
references, is a pretty exhaustive con-
sideration of all forms of trees and
shrubs suitable for “captivity” in Aus-
tralia, with expprt advice on all aspects
of their culture.
The continent is divided into five
zones, and each is given special
consideration, with lists of recom-
mended species and suggested group-
ings. When, how and why to propa-
gate, plant and prune, from the lush
east coast to the arid western areas, is
described in adequate, readable detail.
Australian natives receive a gratifying
amount of space, with special sections
deservedly accorded to the eucalypts
and wattles (acacias). Mr. Lord adds
his authoritative voice to the demand
for complete protection and more
garden-cultivation of our flora.
A very welcome section, not indi-
cated by the title, is that on climbing
plants—local and exotic; a personally
regrettable absence is that group of
plants which fall into Group 5 of the
divisions the tropical zone of
Northern Australia. My horticultural
love is in the rain-forests of the tropics,
and many useful and beautiful forms
have come from their . cathedral
depths.
In his chapters on “Garden
Planning” the author falls into the
common error of considering only
gardens of rather pretentious dimen-
sions. Granting that the landscape-
artist needs a broad canvas on which
to work, such as myself feel rather
resentfully that the owners of average
suburban lots (about 50 x 100) make
up the great bulk of enthusiasts, and
are too frequently disregarded by the
planners.
Special cultural sections on Aus-
tralian native plants by Edward E.
Pescott, Mrs. E. F. Scott and Mr.
George Althofer (than whom there
are none better qualified) are particu-
larly valuable contributions. Mr.
Althofer, at whose “Nindethana”
nursery the survival of many of our
rarer beauties is assured, can descend
with a startling bump from the lyrical
to the practical in the brief space of
a full-stop. Thus:—
Wildflowers of the Inland! The
very mention of the wildlings of
Australia’s vast hinterland conjures
up visions of gems of the sand-
plains and sandstone ridges—visions
of flowers fit to grace the finest
gardens of the temperate world. Let
our thoughts stray to the far sand-
plains of the “Westland,” where, in
the shimmering heat of December,
Western Australia’s Christmas-tree
(.Nuytslg floribunda) paints the land
with tongues of fire —pillars of
incense to the God of Summer!
Strange, beautiful and paradoxical
tree —it gives the rain-arid plains a
beauty of its own. The only truly
successful garden experiences with
this subject have been when seed
has been sown in a large pot or tin
with a host plant.
But the bump, of course, is just what
the gardener needs.
A. H.
Penguin Translations
One of the finer features of the
monthly spate of Penguins is the new
translations Recent examples are
Virgil’s Mneid, translated by W. F.
Jackson Knight; Homer; the Oresteiaa
Trilogy, by /tschylus. done into nervous
contemporary English by Philip Vella-
cott; Don Quixote; The Canterbury
Tales; The Idiot, by Dostoievsky; Part
One of Goethe’s Faust; The Four
Gospels; Plato’s Protagoras and Meno
and The Republic! and less-known
works, like Goncharov’s Oblomov, and
Longus’s Daphnis and Chloe.
Goethe said that the test of a great
poem was that it could be put into
prose or translated into another
language. The Penguin new transla-
tions prove how right Goethe was. The
“Odyssey” and “Iliad” done into con-
temporary English prose seem as living
to the modern reader as Chapman’s
racing stanzas did to Keats. The
principles Christ taught in the Good
Samaritan story, the Martha-and-Mary
story and the story of the Prodigal
Son come out as vividly in the Penguin
new translation as in the Authorised
Version, although that is so hallowed
by tradition that it seems almost
blasphemy to change it.
Chaucer is in a different category.
He wrote in a language which is now
dead but which has an exasperating
resemblance to English as she’s now
spoken. Generations of schoolboys
have been forced to read “The Canter-
bury Tales” as they were written, as
though the teachers wanted to surround
Chaucer with such unfortunate associa-
tions that nobody would read him
unless they had to. To read him in
the Penguin translation into modern
English is as great a revelation as
Keats found Chapman’s Homer.
Longus’s (third-century A.D.) story
of the peasant boy whose love for
Chloe excited the interest of the gods
has the clear line that runs through
Greek art; and although the advice
the gods give Daphnis on how to go
about it sounds in these post-Freudian
days somewhat unsophisticated, there
is a rich earthiness about the work
which the translator has caught
excellently.
M. G. S.
The Golden Strangers: Henry Treece
(The Bodley Head). Four thousand
years ago the small, dark Neolithic men
of England were dispossessed by the
huge blond men from the north. This
victory of the sun-worshippers over the
devotees of the earth-mother has left
its monument in Stonehenge and its
traces in our folk-lore where the pixies
(Piets) are the little people of the dark,
secretive earth and the giants, their
enemies, represent the Aryan tyrants
who overthrew them. The story Henry
Treece has written about the people of
this remote period is imaginative and
poetic, bringing a plausible reality to
their curious practices, their savagery
and their dimly-perceived aspirations.


ANTHONYfigHORDIRNS
COME IN , WRITE OR 9 PHONE OCR NEW CAMPING DEPT. FOR ALL AOCR
CAMPING GEAR
m
Wk
m
m
mi
w
A
1
m
Wk
S
■li
gf
IT
§5
£S
<3§
K
■
m
m
■
“SPECIAL,” MARQUEE AUTO TENT
“Special” Marquee Auto Tent. The roof is made from genuine N
quality Scotch Birkmyre, double sewn waterproof seams, all pole
eyelets leather reinforced front opening only,
Guy Ropes, Poles, Pegs, and slides complete,
size 12 x 12, £4O; 15 x 15 £59/19/-. -All measurements less
seams and hems. Approximate weight 110 lbs.
‘Super’ Auto Tent
Roof made from genuine N quality
Scotch Birkmyre, double sewn water-
proof seams, all pole eyelets leather re-
inforced, duck walls, edge reinforced
with webbing laced on four corners.
Wall, pole sockets, inside storm cord
from centre grummet for tying to
centre pofle in rough weather, calico
partition webbed edges, heavy jute tent
and pole bags, Complete with pegs,
poles, slides and ropes. 12 x 12
£64/4/6; 15 x 15 priced at £B5/2/6.
m
Green Proofed
HIKER’S TENT
Roped edges reinforced eyelets.
Size 6ft. x 4ft. x 4ft. 6in. high, 18in.
wall, £5/6/11. 7ft. x sft. x 4ft. 6in.
high, 18in. wall, £7/16/11. 6ft. x
Bft. x 6ft. high, 2ft. wall, £9/11/6.
\
Jl
Green Proofed Duck
HAVERSACKS
2 pockets, with bound edges, price
52/6. Weight 31bs. Warden cloth,
priced 58/-. Approximate weight
is three and a half lbs.
■X
I
Green Proofed
CAR COVERS
Lightweight, roped edges, reinforced
eyelets 12 x 15, £lO/7/11, lllbs.;
12 x 18, £l2/7/11, 151-bs.; 15 x 18,
£l5/7/6, 171b5. ; 15 x, 20, £l7/18/6,*
Weight is approximately 19 lbs.
POST YOUR ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. POSTAGE EXTRA
mn
Water Bags
CANVAS: Wire handle,
size 12in., 11/-. Weight 9
ozs. Jsin., 11/9, 12 ozs.
CANVAS AUTO : Water-
bags, straps 15in., 17/6, 10
ozs. 18in. 18/9. 12 ozs.
20in. 19/6. Wgt. 14 ozs.
Tent Aids
ALLOY ANGLE POLE
for tent sft. 6in. high,
Telescopic, 87/6 each. Ap-
proximate weights
ALLOY RIDGE POLE :
Telescopic, 7ft. long,
37/11. Weight is 1 lb.
TENT POLE GROUND
PLATE : Aluminium, 2in.
diameter, 1/2.
TENT POLE ORNA-
MENTS: Prevents rain
seeping through tent pole
eyelets. 34in., 1/1; <lTin.
1 /6.
COAT HANGERS
Leather strap, 4 hooks,
8/3 each. Weight 8 ozs.
For Hikers
HIKER’S RUCSAC: 3
pocket, green proofed
duck. Bound edge,
£6/10/-. Warden cloth,
priced at £6/15/-.
Van Winkle
SLEEPING BAG : Japara
covers, Green. Senior,
£6/3/6. 41bs. -
SPRING CAMP BEDS\
Heavy jute top, 72/6;
White duck, 85/-.
CA M P MATTRESS :
“Van Winkle” Camp
Mattress, 29/6 Wgt. 61bs.
Useful
GROUND SHEET : Rub-
berised, eyelets in four
corners, 20/-.
SLEEPING B A G IN-
SERT: Unbleached sheet-
ing, shaped. Priced at
only 15/6. Wgt. lib.
WASH BASIN, 10-inch
diameter, 7 inches high.
Birkmyre, 43/6. Wt. lib.
BATH: Waterproof, 24-in.
diam. lOin. 86/6. 141 b.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, February 27, 1957
Vol. 78—No, 4020
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
HOUSES AND MONEY
HOUSING, like unemployment, is- very difficult
to discuss without the intrusion of emotional
currents. It is naturally of greatest personal interest
to those looking for a home, but these people, by
the urgency of their own case, are handicapped
when it comes to taking a balanced view of the
overall problem. •
Nor can building-trade comments be regarded
as the last word in reliability. , Master-builders,
contractors, bricklayers, building trade-unions ;
timber-yards and timber-getters ; manufacturers of
baths, stoves and other prime-cost items; proprietors
and employees of brickyards ; all these have a
personal interest in keeping the rate of home-
construction at as high a level as possible. And in
the short term at any rate most of them have no
direct interest in keeping the cost of building down.
Together with the people whose housing needs
are still unsatisfied they constitute a demand-
pressure group powerful to make any
Government study its housing-policy very
seriously. So powerful, in fact, that it should be
obvious that if Government policy alone could
solve the housing problem the shortage of homes
in Australia would have been overcome long ago.
On the other hand, Senator Spooner’s coldly
dispassionate statement that at the present rate
the end of the shortage is. in sight and that the
back of the housing-problem should be broken
within four or five years is hardly the sort of
announcement that causes the homeless to throw
their hats in the air and whoop for joy. Human
nature being what it is, a couple who want a home
are more likely to listen to politicians who tell
them they’d get one much sooner but for the
migration programme or that the whole problem
could be solved right away if only the Govern-
ment would “release” more credit.
In the 10-year period 1946-56 over 660,000
houses were built in Australia. This performance
has not been sufficient fully to meet the demand,
but on a per capita basis it ranks above most other
countries. Only West Germany and Sweden have
exceeded our rate of construction, which betters
that of Britain, which had to make good tremendous
losses through enemy bombing, and that of Canada,
whose high birthrate and big migration programme
confront it with housing problems similar to
Australia’s.
Many estimates have been put forth as to Aus-
tralia’s housing requirements. The latest summary
issued by Senator Spooner’s department places the
annual “new needs” (as distinct from backlag) at
between 52,000 and 54,000. In the ten years to
June 30, 1956, the population increased by almost
200,000 a year and the growth is expected to be
stabilised around this figure for at least the next
few years. On the basis of 3.75 persons to a house
(the actual figure at the time of the 1947 census)
this would give an annual need for 53,000 houses.
On .the same basis of reckoning the 660,000 houses
built since the war should have looked after all
the “new needs” of the period and in addition
reduced the backlag by 126,600. Back in 1947 the
estimated housing shortage was 250,200; the
difference, 123,600, should be a rough approxima-
tion of the shortage at the end of last June. Senator
Spooner’s survey placed the June, 1956, shortage a
little lower, at 115,350.
The chief factor determining “new needs” is
the number of marriages, and the survey remarks
with satisfaction that as a sequel to the Jow birth-
rates of the depression years 1930-34 a falling-off
in the marriage-rate may be expected Over the next
few years, so that the actual “new needs” of the
period, will be below the recent average, thus
enabling the backlag to be overtaken more quickly,
provided last year’s building-rate of 77,000 homes is
maintained. It should be mentioned that there is
veiy little likelihood of it being maintained, as both
“completions and “commencements” were lower in
the second half of 1956 than in .the corresponding
period of 1955. Still, the extent of the drop is not
alarming and the figure for “commencements” was
virtually static over the June, September and
December quarters. Whether Senator Spooner’s
expectations of a rise in the March, 1957, quarter
are justified remains to be seen.
The survey has drawn from N.S.W. Housing
Minister Landa the protest that his State’s shortage
is more like 150,000 than 60,000, the figure given in
the statement. He declares that “a calamitous
position will arise in N. S. Wales unless something
Js done about finance.” That is the plaint Cahill
and Co. have been raising for years every time
housing is mentioned. Of course the housing
industry could do with more finance!' So could Mr.
Heffron’s Education Department and Mr. Sheahan’s
hospitals. But it is ridiculous to pretend that build-
ing homes is just a matter of conjuring up finance.
There is no great body of building workers standing
idly by waiting to build homes. At the end of
November the building industry, despite the drop
in the rate of home-building, employed 3700 more
men than a year earlier.
The explanation is the large number of offices
and factory buildings under construction, a develop-
ment just as necessary in a growing economy as the
building of homes. The'announcement last week
that several N.S.W. brickyards had closed' or were
closing down because of the falling-off in home-
building was not pleasant news. But is it strictly
correct? Are brick-manufacturers immune from
the human failing of overestimating demand, of
which there have been examples in other indpstries
recently? In the two-year period from July, 1951,
to June, 1953, production of bricks totalled 1386
million. For the two years July, 1954, to June, 1956,
the production was 1668 million although the
nunpber of homes built in the two periods was
almost identical. Between the two periods the pro-
duction of rival materials fibro and timber also
increased considerably and the production of
cement even more. A tapering-off in demand for
bricks was surely indicated.
If Federal financial policy is the dominating
factor in housing that Cahill and Co. claim it is,
then it should show its influence more or less uni-
formly in all States. It is therefore fair to ask how
the N. S. Wales housing effort comparers with that of
the rest of Australia. In 1947, according to the
Spooner survey, the number of dwellings available
in Australia for every 1000 families was 877. By
last June the index had risen to 955. Details for the
various States were:—
June 30, 1947. June 30, 1956.
N.S.W . .. 868 940
Vic .. .. 879 955
S.A 868 968
, Q’ld 898 973
W.A. . 885 978
Tas. .. .. .. .. 894 976
The Cahill State has made less progress
towards closing the housing gap than any other
State. It was nine points behind the Common-
wealth average in 1947 and fifteen points behind
last June.
There may be some explanation apart from
Government policy, but since Landa and Cahill
seek to place the blame at Government level it is
fair to ask whether they aren’t getting their Govern-
ments mixed. Fair also to reply that the N.S.W.
Government must take some of the blame for its
State’s poor showing. It first set out to become a
universal landlord ; its Housing Commission con-
centrated on building rental homes ; when materials
were in short supply it hampered and restricted
private homebuilders. By rent-control and the
working of its Landlord and Tenant Act it made
house-letting so hopeless a proposition that house-
building for investment ceased completely. Even
its Land Tax Act, passed only last session, con-
tinues the vendetta against the landlord by
exempting property used for commercial purposes,
but not dwellings.
Landa says N. S. Wales is facing a calamity.
The truth is the State has been carrying a.calamity
on its back for years—Calamity Cahill and Co.
New Global Strategy
THE announcements that Lord Home, Secretary
of State for Commonwealth Relations in the U.K.,
Mr. Dulles, and M. Pineau, the French Minister
for Foreign Relations, will attend the Seato Con-
ference to be held at Parliament House, Canberra,
next month points the growing importance of Seato
as part of a Western structure for defence.
Cutler, V.C., recently Australian Ambassador
to Egypt, is the administrative organiser to the
conference, and Australia and the other Pacific
Ocean countries will be represented at a top level.
Global defence became inevitable with ,the
maturing of long-distance rockets, the improved
transportability of atomic and other devastating
weapons, the increases in speed and the .changes in
the time-factor in military operations, the blending
of the functions of the various types of Services, and
in the application of principles of mobility and
elasticity to war.
Mr. Churchill could say with confidence in
1940. even after Dunkirk, with nothing between
Britain and the enemy but the Channel, the Spitfires
and a single fully-equipped division (which
happened to be Canadian), that “we must not plan
for 1940 or 1941, but for 1943 and 1944.” But in
1957, and more particularly 1959, *his words would
be apt to be drowned in the blast of an atomic
explosion from a guided-missile warhead.
Had Hitler developed the atomic warhead for
his comparatively short-ranging and inaccurately-
steered Vi’s and-V2’s before he started his onslaught
on the Continent—had he, indeed, concentrated on
guided-missile attack in 1940 instead of more than
three years later—the history of the war would
have been a different matter.
Even radar, combined with fighter defence,
would not then have saved British cities. The
bomber-attacks on Germany which later did so
much to pulverise its industrial front would never
have happened.
Had, indeed, the British failed to find and
sterilise Peenemunde, the source of the V’s, the
result might have been very different in the balance-
sheet of attrition.
Russian theory has been based on a knowledge
of these and other things during the past ten years.
Moscow’s military brqin has realised the disadvan-
tages, especially to an aggressor aiming at distant,
but well defended and separated, targets, of a
centralised position. It has, therefore, aimed to
destroy or lethally weaken the defences of the
Western world by the following means: —
(a) By the use of Red-ant tactics, designed to
cause disruption of defence and transport-
systems in all countries and to use - every
means possible to build up, by internal tactics
through wages and loaf, the cost of Western
defence in all countries. In Australia, in par-
ticular, this method has flourished and has
had considerable success. >■ ,
(b) By widening, as far as possible, the
boundaries of the internal military
kernel within the Iron Curtain by
drawing other countries, such as China,
into alliance and dispersing attack-
bases all over eastern Europe and Asia.
(c) By political means in U.N. and elsewhere
to divide the Western allies and East and West
and make global defence, or any general
strategic action, impossible. They have had
great success with India and other neighbors
in this policy and have been equally success-
ful in the Middle East, as recent events have
proved. The Afro-Asian bloc of “anti-
colonial” countries is serving as Russia’s
perhaps unwitting instrument.
(d) By doing their best to promote local
revolutionary or colonial wars designed with
a yiew to the diversion of Western attention
and effort from the main issue of world
revolution, while at the same time whittling
away the central resources of those whom
they hope ultimately to destroy.
(e) By compelling the West to keep maximum
ground forces in existence along the borders
of the Iron Curtain and huge naval forces at
sea—this at a great disadvantage, since no
democratic country has the power of con-
scription possessed by a totalitarian State,
nor the absolute power to starve and work its
people for an exact and continuing aggressive
purpose that is inherent in an armed dictator-
ship with a complex internal spy network
and an efficient Gestapo or Security Police.
It is hard enpugh to make democratic
peoples pay for their own defence.
Under these conditions there has been a sort
of game,of poker in t progress during the twilight-
period of the development of long-range weapons.
Russia has laid down a stake in manpower,
weaponry or induced aggression in other countries,
and the West has been forced to cover and raise it.
Moscow has started a bushfire in Indo-China or
Korea. The West has been compelled to hypo-
thecate resources for putting it out. The hope has
been that the economic capacity of the West would
in time collapse under the strain and that the
“capitalist” system would cave-in under the pres-
sure of its own heavily taxed democrats.
That phase is over. The problem has been
reduced to relative simplicity. Russia is armed for
global attack, though with what intensity and
efficiency nobody exactly knows: It has achieved
political agreement for joint action with the
Chinese, who have their own aggressive plan to
engulf south-east Asia.
There is no way to meet a Communist attack
save by a global system which must, without inter-
ruption in a geographical sense, surround the Iron
Curtain countries.
The existence of such a structure, combined
with the growing unity of great Western European
economies, would change the nature of the game
which is being played for world freedom against
world revolution.
It would shift the initiative in calling the stakes
to the West, and prove in a - relatively short time
whether the Russian economy, weakened by satellite
dissension, and Communist loss of moral authority
as the result of the Hungarian slaughter, can keep
up with its own technique of a cold war of economic
attrition waged through the massing of armament.
The global strategy and tactics are not likely to
be cheap.
Ek Dum.


UNCLAIMED ORDER
"And yet, sir, when you first tried it on in 1949 it appeared to fit you perfectly.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Money From Misery
Disclosures of rent-racketeering in Vic-
toria have become so distressing that
Attorney-General Rylah. has joined with
two other Ministers, Warner (Transport)
and Petty (Housing), to make effective
legislative cures, and they have appointed
a senior official to make on-the-spot in-
vestigations.
Among the unpleasant facts now re-
vealed (although thousands of unfortu-
nate “roomers” have been bitterly
acquainted with them for years) are the
almost universal rental of £5 a week for
each dilapidated furnished-room ; £7 10s.
for a large room when it is divided by a
curtain and becomes two rooms; and
£8 a. week if there are no cooking facili-
ties and a “breakfast” is provided.
It is a richly profitable traffic in misery
for those who run these wretched houses.
Some of these modern “landlords”
(usually tenants who sublet) collect
£2OO a week apiece; another gets £26 a
week from a seven-roomed house and
shop, including £9 from one family with
nine children in three rooms ; and £6O
weekly is taken from 33 adults and their
children out of an unfurnished apart-
ment-house of 20 rooms.
Regulations under the Health Act are
often ignored. In one inner-suburban
house there are four taps and two lava-
tories, but no bath, for 60 people; in
another, one lavatory for 27 people. s Only
the largest have more than one bathroom,
and few have hand-basins.
The worst sufferers of all in these
overcrowded, unhygienic and straitened
circumstances are, alas, the children. All
officials, and charitable and religious
visitors to these houses, are unhappily
convinced of this.
Many of these landlords are migrants
of some years’ experience in Australia
who were exploited by Old Australians
when they arrived here, homeless and
uncertain, but in some fashion now have
become the most rapacious landlords of
all, particularly with new arrivals from
Europe, strangers in anew land and
unaware of some safeguards for them
under the law.
Rylah used one df these with” com-
mendable promptitude when a landlord
attempted to evict sub-tenants who had
made public their plight; he declared
the house a “special premises,” bringing
it immediately under the 1955 Landlord
and Tenant Act and therefore under the (
Fair Rents Court.
The Ministers’ task is difficult. Rent-
control is unpopular and unwanted ; but
Victoria, as the recent Canberra survey
has shown, is shorter of houses than most
other States, and more migrants continue
to disembark at Port Melbourne and
Victoria Dock than at any other seaport.
Strikes, Assorted
Strike-season is looming up again in
N. S. Wales. With the approval of the
A.C.T.U., all coalmining unions on the
northern field are to hold stopwork meet-
ings on March 6 to discuss, says Mr.
Monk, “ways to improve the employ-
ment position, including nationalisation,
finding new markets and higher wages.”
Before the weekend it seemed likely that
Sydney eastern suburbs would be with-
out trams this week. ,
On Wednesday the executive of the
Tram and Bus Employees’ Union decided
to recommend a strike of all employees
at Dowling-street depot in protest against
cuts in the Coogee and Clovelly services ;
also “lightning” stoppages during the
week at other depots. The cuts in services
during off-peak hours are part of a pro-
gramme to reduce the huge tramway-
deficit ; they were made after several
checks on the numbers of passengers on
the trams affected. The union claims it
is acting in the interest of giving the
public a compete service, but apparently
the first step towards doing that is to
close-down the service altogether for a
week. Fortunately the rank-and-file on
this occasion had more sense than their
leaders—but not much more. Instead of
a week’s strike they decided on Sunday
to stage a regulations strike, which is
polite language for how to make a
nuisance of yourself without losing any
pay. From past experience—over week-
end services, one-man buses—they should
know they can’t win. They , can’t win
because they don’t deserve to win.
They’ve a bad case based in reality on
their belief that the trams should be run
for the benefit of the trammies.
The miners and the trammies, although
misguided and ill-advised, are at least
actuated by a very understandable fear
of losing their jobs. But the men at the
Homebush Abattoirs, where another go-
slow strike is in operation, are merely
fighting for the right of some of their
number to steal from the abattoirs
without let or hindrance.
The hindrance is coming from the
Metropolitan Security Service, a private
organisation approved by the N.S.W.
Labor Government, but condemned by
Left-wing unions as “Fascists” and
“storm-troopers.” Meat Board chairman
McGrath says that in the first week after
the engagement of the M.S.S. men claims
for stolen meat dropped from £SO to £ll.
The Meat Industry Employees’ Union
claims it doesn’t condone theft, but a few
weeks ago it fined one of its members for
giving evidence in court against another
member charged (and convicted) with
stealing.
After words from the court this dis-
graceful fine was rescinded, but the
union had earlier stated that if a member
became aware of thieving or the like he
should report it to the union, not to other
authorities. Unfortunately it produced
no evidence that it had ever asked
members to take such afction ; no evidence
that anyone had ever reported a fellow-
member to it; no evidence that it would
have taken any action if reports had
been made.
On the basis of the case of the man
who was fined and on the union’s present
campaign against the M.S.S., it seems,
more likely thatTt would have dealt with
the complainant rather than the thief.
"Little" Honors
Frank Gatliff, who might have won last
year for any one of three performances,
carried off this year’s Erik (a statuette
trophy named for Erik Kuttner, who
assisted in keeping acting alive in Mel-
bourne in the ’thirties), with June Brunell
taking off the actress’s equivalent.
They are the leading players of the
Union Theatre Repertory Cos., which has
won a place for itself in Melbourne on
sheer merit; the comfortable Union
, Theatre is in the wilderness (for most
people) of the University.
The Union Company is not yet in the
silk department like the Little, at South
Yarra, which can do just pn everything
in the theatre successfully and is
currently presenting a beautiful, sensitive
and, by thunder, expensive production of
Chekhov’s “The Three Sisters” to packed
houses for just on a month’s season ; but,
considering that it has carried the burden
of its location for three years, the Union
must be regarded as established.
June Brunell is a competent actress
who was at her best as Shaw’s spirited
“Saint Joan” in the national tour, of
the National Theatre ; Gatliff is a fine
and compelling artist who loses himself
in characters.
The newspaper-critics’ circle, which
chose the winners, named Neil Fitzpat-
rick, Frederick Parslow, Carl Bleazby,
Keith (associate English Professor)
Macartney, Kenneth Burgess, Joan
MacDonald, Beverley Dunn (who won
last year), Muriel Hearne, Su Israel and
Moira Carleton with honors. Muriel
Hearne is a Little veteran, and you may
see her like once in a decade in a
character part on a city stage.
Almost all of them are Australians,
which must be the reason they are never
seen except on the Little-theatre stages.
There isn’t any other reason.
Economic Predictions
[From “Stromlo”]
One of the major enjoyments of Canberra
political correspondents is in predicting
the outcome of conferences to be held
behind tightly-closed doors, and later to
purport to report what took place in the
gatherings.
In the last week reports appeared sug-
gesting that the economic advisers to the
Government, either independently of -the
Cabinet’s economic sub-committee or in
co-operation with it, had proposed all
sorts of things, including a reduced
defence vote, lower taxes on certain
items, and a revision of import-controls.
There were even suggestions that the
defence chiefs-of-staff themselves were
suggesting defence economies, a flight of
imagination which gave some rueful
amusement to Cabinet Ministers, none
of whom remembers any defence chief
ever suggesting any cut in the allocations.
The economists were not concerned
with such matters as details of import-
licensing or even the incidence of
particular taxes, recognising that such
matters are, or should be, the prerogative
of Government. Their inquiries and their
recommendations were concerned with
broader issues, and they are believed to
have given the Government some use-
ful pointers. It remains to be seen what
the effect is, if any, on the September
Budget. Mo?t Canberra cynics point out
that this is the “middle” year, with no
election in the offing, and that it is a habit
of Governments to refrain from tax-cuts
until some fairly spectacular ones can be
introduced shortly before an election.
(The next Federal election is due at the
end of 1958.)
There is still some annoyance in
Treasury circles at the recent predictipn
in one newspaper that the sales-tax on
cars was to be reduced. The subsequent
flooding of Canberra by telegrams from
anxious car-sellers, whose business had
fallen to zero as prospective buyers held
off pending the “reduction,” was pro-
ductive of some high blood-pressures in
Parliament House ancj in the Treasury.
The Government may do something
about sales-tax later this year, although
the current emphasis is on payroll-tax,
as a major influence in high ‘costs ; but
nothing is expected until the Budget
session.
Casey on Coionkslisfri
Australia's External, Affairs Minister,
R. G. Casey, told the United Nations
Assembly during the hectic Suez
period that the present philosophy of
the Assembly seemed to be based
on an y assumption that “if enough
people get around a table and talk about
a particular problem—even though they
may know little about it and are almost
wholly unaffected by it —a solutioh will
be forthcoming.”
He said that in his view there were three
preconditions to success of discussion of
international problems—that there must
be understanding of the problem, that
there be good faith and, thirdly, that
there must not be irreconcilable national
interests involved. Very often in the
Assembly there were national interests
involved which were completely irrecon-
cilable, particularly where territorial
claims were made, no matter how spacious
the guise under which they were
presented.
The most popular and most specious of
the guises, he said, were the magic words
“self-determination and anti-colonialism.”
Stripped of this kind of cover, bare-
faced national interest was often revealed
underneath, with little regard to the pro-
visions of the Charter regarding the
protection of indigenous inhabitants.
It would be disastrous, he said, if under
the cloak of aiming to free peoples and
lands from colonialism, new colonial
aspirations were developed. The “Charter
provisions should have ended all new
claims to colonial territories by other
sovereign Powers.”
The point occurred to him, inter alia,
as a “peculiar fact,” that the concept of
“colopialism” was “only applied to rule
frdm overseas and not to cases in which
two territories involved have a common
land-frontier.” It was worth remembering
that throughout history, colonial expan-
sion overland had been just as frequent
and more permanent than seaborne
colonialism, and that overland colonial-
ism had vastly increased in the last
generation at precisely the time that
colonialism overseas had vastly de-
creased :
What remains of seaborne colonialism
today is subject to the benevolent and
ever-vigilant eye of the United Nations,
whereas the, vast area of land-borne
colonialism of the Soviet Union and the
tens of millions of people who are sub-
ject to it are totally and wholly removed
from the protection of the Unite'd Nations,
and, indeed, make a mockery and a sham
of pur benevolent efforts. One need only
mention Hungary in this regard.
Mr. Casey is a diplomat, mild and
restrained in expression if one may judge
by this statement. In the philosophy of
U.N., Australia is a colonial country in
respect of Papua and New Guinea. But
Russia is not a colonial country in respect
of the Baltic States which it captured by
force and engulfed with the aid of Hitler,
or in respect of Hungary, Czechoslovakia
and East Germany, which it holds down
with 22 military divisions, or the border-
land areas of middle Asia, which it
absorbed by armed occupation. Britain
was a fcolonial country in respect of India
and Egypt, but India is not colonial in
respect of its grab af Kashmir or its
attempted seizures of Goa, which was
held by the Hindus only for about a
century ending somewhere in the middle
of the fifteenth century and by the Portu-
guese ever since 1510.
The Dutch are a colonial country to be
deplored because they hold -the country of
the Melanesian tribes in West New
Guinea ; but it is quite all right for tl|e
Malays of Java, several hundred mills
away, to grab the land of these people,
‘racially and culturally alien to them,
because Malays are not Europeans and
are under the patronage of Moscow and
the Arab bloc.
It is time a few people like Mr. Casey
spoke up and tried to jolt _ the United
Nations .into a little consistency and
straight-thinking on a chimera which was
brought into being originally solely for
Moscow’s malign purposes and is now
being made' use of by others.
ISRAEL STANDS PAT
[By “Ek Dum”]
/VVER the weekend the world’s
champion enigma was the attitude of
the United States President on the ques-
tion of Israel’s withdrawal from the Gaza
Strip and from the positions at the mouth
of the Akaba Gulf, from which the
Egyptians can block shipping plying
to the key port of Elath. The President
seemed to have taken over the United
Nations and to be giving it its orders.
Disobedience of the rulings and orders
of the United Nations does not usually
stir Mr. Eisenhower into stubborn
determination.
He has watched with equanimity the
disobedience of Egypt, continued over a
number of years, to the orders of the
Security Council regarding the blockade
of Israel and Egypt’s breaches of the
armistice conditions which were sup-
posedly being policed by a United
Nations border patrol.
The Hungarian affair has brought from
him only some words of protest.
He received Nehru in Washington as
a fellow victor in the “moral” war against
the British and French, who dared to act
to prevent the Israelis conquering Egypt,
as they surely would have done if it had
not been for British-French interference.
Then Nehru went home, committed a
flagrant act of aggression and conquest in
Kashmir and flatly refused to obey the
instructions of the United Nations, of
which he had been the noisy champion.
The American President did not flinch.
The Russians set out to back, India
and vetoed a move to send one of Mr.
Hammarskjoeld’s offsiders to inquire
into the merits of the situation —the U.N.
method of shelving anything it finds it
awkward to deal with.* This move caused
no ripple in Washington’s equanimity.
But Israel —that was another matter.
Israel is small, ostensibly helpless,
hemmed in by Arab enemies all swear-
ing loudly over their radios to destroy
her. She has been raided again and again,
week in and week out, for years until she
lost patience and decided to immobilise
the nation organising her destruction—
one with ten times her population and
wealth —when it was immediately charged
in the U.S. that she was involved in a
conspiracy to give the British and French
a pretext to coriquer Egypt and: turn it
once more into a colony.
‘The United States joined with Russia
in the vote to force the -British and
French to abandon their enterprise half-
finished with an implication that they
were both disgraced and ruined as world
Powers by their action in intervening.
It has joined in the relentless pursuit of
Israel and everybody else who is not
persona grata with Nasser and the Arabs
to such an extent that it has almost
looked like a satellite of the Afro-Asian
bloc, though there was some change when
the ungrateful Arabs decided that the
Eisenhower Doctrine, which emerged as
the ghostlike crystallisation of the new
U.S. Middle Eastern policy, was likely
to clash with their secret “Arab
Doctrine”
The Israel crisis has coriie to a cul-
mination. It is indication of the real
strength of U.N. that it has chosen Israel’s
behavior as its issue and that even the
U.S. has to force the issue.
On February 17 President Eisenhower
from his country retreat issued an appeal
to Israel to “withdraw her forces from
Egyptian territory And rely upon the
resoluteness of all friends of justice”-'
presumably depending for guarantees on
the “resoluteness” shown in respect of
Egypt, Hungary and India. He said
sorrowfully that Israel had been given
“the maximunf assurances it can reason-
ably expect at this juncture, or that can
be reconciled with fairness to others,’
He added that reliance on U.N. would
probably provide Israel with “greater
sources of security than an occupation
continued contrary to the overwhelming
judgment of the world community.”
Some of the reactions to this approach
were obvious next day in a letter to the
London “Times” signed by Admiral Lord
Cunningham, First Lord of the Admiralty
(Continued on next page)


during the crucial three last years of the
war and an authority on the Mediter-
ranean, Lord Hailey, a great Indian
civil servant and perhaps Britain’s most
respected authority on Asian-African
problems, the Bishop of Norwich, the
Dean of Winchester, and two famous
Australians, Lord Hankey, formerly
Secretary to the British Cabinet, and
Professor Gilbert Murray.
They wrote that “support of the United
Nations had hitherto been based on the
view that, the organisation stands for
the objective of international justice be-
tween nations,” but that this view has
“lately received a rude shock.” They
pointed out that under the Preamble and
the first two Articles of the Charter where
a nation which had been constantly fall-
ing below U.N. standards (through threats
to peace or acts of aggression) the U.N.,
unless it acted, would not be fulfilling its
first purpose under the Charter “to main-
tain international peace and security,” or
doing its duty by “restoring conditions of
peace with adequate safeguards”:
-Some member-States of the U.N. seem
to have forgotten wliat Egypt’s neighbors
and the users of the Suez Canal can
never forget—that Egypt, under the
present regime, has proved herself utterly
unreliable, so that nothing but the most
effective safeguards will create that sense
of security which is the basis of perma-
nent peace.
When, next day again, returning from
his holiday hurriedly cut short, Mr.
Eisenhower made a grim statement
demanding th£t Israel capitulate or take
the consequences, the only reason which
seemed valid amid his excuses for not
having shown the same insistence about
action against Russia over Hungary and
India over Kashmir, was to condense
into an argument that a United States
order was an overriding reason for
obedience.
Mr. Eisenhower’s statement seemed to
have little support anywhere, even in the
United States. The British Fqreign Office
stressed the fact that it regarded the with-
drawal of Israeli forces and the-need for
a settlement of the Middle East area as
a “combined operation.”
There was bewilderment in the
Commons and the British press.
Mr. Casey was more explicit in saying
that the application of sanctions against
Israel would be “unjust and provocative” ;
that, although Israel was disobedient to
the Israeli order, it must be remembered
that Egypt had persistently defied
Security Council resolutions and that “in
the light of the past no fair-minded person
could expect Israel to withdraw until she
had firm assurances that her shipping in
the Akaba Gulf would not be interfered
with, or Israel harassed by Egyptian raids
from Gaza. The U.N. had recognised the
realities of Israel’s anxieties, but no
effective steps had so far been taken to
allay them. And Egypt gave U.N. a
final jolt by refusing to agree that U.N.
troops should be allowed into the Gaza
Strip if the Israelis withdrew.
If measures are to be taken it looks as
if the only people behind it will be the
United States with its South American
satellites, the Afro-Asian bloc and cer-
tainly Russia and its satellites.
POLITICAL POINTS
If the Taxation Commissioner doesn’t
get most of that £17,000 wad of notes
found in the old car at Dalby (Q.), he’s
losing his punch.
• •
Social Services Minister Roberton has
asked an inter-departmental committee
to report on the -possibility of fixing a
retiring : age “determined by physical and
mental capacity” instead of the present
step-down-at-65 system. He claims that
an arbitrary retiring-age must have a bad
effect sociologically and that the effect
is already visible in Australia. One way
for him to gain Parliamentary support
for his plan would be to suggest that
M.P.s should be put on the same footing
as public servants in regard to retiring-
age.
• • >
“In the ACT”: It is* well that the
Sea to talks will take place before the
opening of the new Federal session:
they should help to clarify the Govern-
ment's mind on changing international as
well as defence relationships. This
applies especially to Britain, which is
The R.N. is to have an Atom Admiral.
But the Army got in first. Wasn’t it
Wellington who said, “Up, Guards, and
Atom”?
• •
President Eisenhower’s broadcast on
the case against Israel was a statement of
lofty principles, but how many of the
U.N. ..delegates who favor sanctions on
Israel are judging the issue on that level?
And how many influential Americans
who are urging Ike on his present course
are concerned solely with lofty principles?
• . *
Labor spokesmen, notably Leslie
Haylen and A.L.P. president Campbell,
have been raising much ado about noth-
ing over the Burwood by-election. The
A.L.P. squibbed putting up a candidate.
Now they’re upset because Labor voters,
faced with the choice of Independent
Labor or Democratic Labor, voted three-
to-two in favor of the D.L.P. bloke.
Final count gave Liberal Ben Doig
the seat by 12,272 to 6087 scored by
Independent Liberal H. Selden.
Haylen’s complaint is that in the final
split-up 3583 of Colreavy’s prefs. went to
Doig and only 903 to Selden. This is
taken as evidence that the D.L.P. is “the
natural ally of the Liberal party.” It
ignores the fact that at that Stage the
Independent Labor man Cunningham had
already been eliminated, so that Doig
inherited second preferences which would
otherwise have gone to him. Had Cun-
ningham received sufficient first pre-
ferences to take him through to the final
count he would have run Doig much
closer than Selden did. The how-to-vote
cards of both Colreavy and Selden placed
Cunningham above Doig.
• •
The Commonwealth Bank is selling its
DC3 plane because there is no longer
sufficient work to warrant keeping it. Was
there ever?
• ©
Although the Government and Opposi-
tion parties in Britain were divided over
the attack on Suez they seem to be in
general agreement against imposing
sanctions on Israel. In the Commons last
week Labor members said that U.N.
should guarantee'lsrael freedom of ship-
ping in the Gulf of Akaba and the Suez
Canal, provide a police-force to prevent
Egyptian frontier raids and make Egypt
renounce belligerent fights. Conservative
M.P.s have expressed similar views.
in Australia it is impossible to say
whether there’s agreement or not,
because Labor men seem determined not
to commit themselves on the subject.
Casey has said the Government is opposed
to sanctions, but the' Doc., so voluble
over the invasion of Suez, is as mum as
an oyster. Moreover, he has made no
statement on the U.N. resolution on
Kashmir or on India’s rejection of it.
Why)
• •
Full marks tb the 500 men on the
M.L.C. building-job at North Sydney who
are each contributing £1 a week for three
weeks to assist the family of a non-
unionist electrician who was accidentally
killed on the job.
** e •
The Clive Evatt “fact-finding com-
mittee” which has been in Cyprus looking
for facts to support the opinions it
expressed before it went there seems to be
playing-down Clive’s part in the show.
Most cables quote the views of Dunstan,
a South Australian Labor M.P., and
Buckley, a Sydney University lecturer.
Perhaps Clive is preparing a minority
report.
Dunstan, who is acting as spokesman,
said on arrival in England that if Arch-
bishop Makarios asked for violence to
*' stop
he would lose his influence with the
terrorists. There might be calm for a little
while,, but there would be even more
terrorism once his influence was removed.
This reasoning gives no thought to the
effect Makarios’s denunciation of terror-
ism would have upon the mass of
Cypriots who are not active terrorists,
but who condone terrorism because the
archbishop condones it.
“Come on, Ben-Gurion—you’re just about my fighting-weight,”
sending a junior Minister, and to the
United States, which is sending Secretary
of State John Foster Dulles. The visit
should also be useful for letting Dulles
know the reactions in Australia to recent
U.S. policy in the Middle East and to his
own share in that policy. There should
be some interesting words spoken in the
next foreign-affairs debate.
• •
Announcing his latest plan for keeping
himself on top, Soekamo said that Indo-
nesia was not ready for Western-style
democracy. What he means is that it
isn’t ready for democracy—a fact that
has been obvious for years. And if it
were ready, it probably wouldn t want
Soekarno.
• ®
This week India holds its second
general election. About 193 million
people are entitled to vote, and they will
elect 494 members to the Lok Sabha
(National Parliament). At the same
time they will vote for members of the 14
State Assemblies with a total member-
ship of 2906. As more than half the
electors are illiterate, ballot-boxes will
bear symbols or emblems of the different
parties. Thus the Congress party is
identified by a picture of the two yoked
bullocks, the Communists by ears of corn
and a sickle, Praja Socialists by a hut, and
so on. Any Australian elector who feels
a glow of superiority at reading this
should ask himself why an allegedly
literate person in this country should
need a how-to-vote card.
• •
* British Labor M.P. Emanuel Shinwell,
who supported Eden’s policy on Suez,
made a neat point last week when he
said that the fact that the Government
was alleged to have made mistakes in the
Middle East was no reason why the
Commons should condone any mistake
made by President Eisenhower.
• ®
“X.N.Z.”: Yesterday the Governor-General
and Lady Slim were to meet newcomers or
British and about sixteen other nationalities
in migrant hostels at Cabramatta and Villawood,
on Sydney’s western outskirts. Ol 33 sucn
hostels throughout Australia, Villawood (pop.
2000, all non-British Europeans) is the largest;
Cabramatta (pop. 1200, mainly British) n . ot s °
far behind. Villawood was recently subjected
to a strange attack in a Sydney afternoon paper,
one comment described the hostel as a prison,
whose inmates “would prefer lile L *nder
Russian occupation.” The happy way in which
boarders and staff co-operated in preparations
for a colorful reception to their Exes made
nonsense of that. At both hostels the visitois
were to be shown gadgets for cutting kitchen
costs; amenities such as thp child-minding
centres that help working mothers; the youth-
leadership centres that nip bodgie-widgieism
in the bud —not too bad for what are after all
only boarding-houses, and temporary boarding-
houses at that. In the hostels no breadwinner,'
whatever the size of his family, can be charged
more than will leave him with a minimum ot
£5 a week of his nominal wages (overtime, child-
endowment, etc., not counted). A good augury
for the successful “shaking-down ’ of New Aus-
tralians is the relationship between Villawood s
manager, E. D. Thomas, and his multilingual
charges, who include not only Germans, but
Germans of (lie Afrika Korps. As an artillery-
officer Thomas directed a lot of fire in then-
direction at Tobruk. Whether this is revenge
depends on what you think of Rotary—the other
night the ex-Rommel men dragged Thomas with
them to the Fairfield Rotary Club, which had
induced Dr. W. Mueller, of the German
Embassy, to deliver this year’s Australia Day
address and had invited twelve Germans from
Villawood to go along as guests.
® •
Tasmania plans to amend the Licensing
Act to permit the staggering of hotel
hours. Hitherto hotel patrons have had
to do their own staggering.
• •
Already unpopular because of its
rent-policy, as shown by the North
Lewisham by-election, the Macmillan
Government is courting further abuse by
cutting social-service expenditure. Sub-
sidies on milk and school-lunches are
to be reduced and National Health
Service contributions are to be increased.
When Chancellor Thorneycroft made the
announcement Opposition members gave
the traditional response of “shame” and
“resign,” but they probably weren’t
surprised. National Health will cost
£690 million this year, and Thorneycroft
said the alternative to higher contribu-
tions would be to reduce the scope of
the service.
• _ •
“Mugga Way”: Farmers running some
sheep will agree with Primary Industry
Minister W. McMahon at the Agricul-
tural Council meeting in Sydney that
Australian farmers’ incomes may rise
from nine to twelve per cent, this year,
but those who don’t may feel a trifle
disconcerted by this generalisation.
McMahon pointed. out that more land-
holders than ever before were sharing
the income from wool, and the rise in
wool prices had more than offset income
declines in other commodities.
A
• •
“Stromlo”: Latest Federal public-
service totals show that the Menzies
Government is at least keeping the
numbers down, even if it is permitting the
salary costs to soar. At the end of last
June there were 153,600 persons in the
service, including 85,260 permanent
(70,545 males and 14,715 females), com-
pared with 156,843 at the end of June,
1950, Permanent officers received
£82,026,536 in salaries and £7,190,322 in
extra-duty paymehts in 1955-56. Tempor-
ary officers received £55,238,374, making
the total salary and wages bill (which
doesn’t include travelling expenses)
£144,455,232.
- N • •
“Emtee”: The Cosgrove'Government
is considering plans for a new bridge
across the Derwent, estimated to cost
about £2 j million. When it’s finished the
Government will be open for
for the disposal of the pontoons of the
present bridge. Those wishing to offer
advice will have plenty of time to think
it over,
'■ • ®
Bolte has flatly refused to give
evidence before Senator O’Sullivan’s all-
Canberra committee investigating Con-
stitutional reform because his request for
the States to be represented on the com-
mittee was rejected. “The committee
knows it cannot hope to get a referen-
dum passed without the support of the
major political parties and the States,”
says O’Sullivan. He begins by snubbing
the States, a characteristic of those fellows
who meet in that Canberra ivory (or
off-white) tower.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITWIMBLES INKS"
MELBOURNE will have its first Sunday
newspaper within three months,
“The Sunday Star,” distributed free,
relying on advertisements. The manager
of Testro Newspapers, Ltd., Mr. R.
Testro, says the company has a nominal
capital of £750,000. some of it from
England. Sydney aas some Sunday
papers that ought to be given away free,
too; maybe this brilliant idea hasn’t
•occurred to Messrs. Packer, Norton and
Henderson. —“Ranji.”
*■i • ❖ ❖
“Apemantus”: On behalf of a large
printing-house a Westralian “Situations
Vacant” ad. offers modelling-fees and a
free photograph to suitable young ladies
owning national costumes of their
countries. It wants ’em “for the purpose
of having their photographs taken for
reproductive purposes.” 00-la-la!
“Googi”: When you read that pianist
Ben Light, who has been tickling the
ivories for 40 years, can when playing
flat-out hit 1100 notes a minute, you
really feel an amateur.
>-♦
“Sunray”: Exports and iniports, as we
learned them at school, were wool and
“If you wouldn't mind, dear, I'd rather hear baby cry unaccompanied."
hides, oil, wheat, rubber, gold, etc. Today
in the Customs-notices in the “Gazette”
it is fascinating to find clerical collars
rubbing shoulders with spares for Joy
Loaders; brohze altar-gates with hops;
dies for automatic macaroni-machinery
with calendar-bowls; Chiksan-joints,
raffia-vamps and anti-hail rockets with
prayer-shawls and fringes ; and aircraft-
tools with cherries-in-brine and orthoxine.
“Soxer”: Pleased The Bulletin tap
is not dripping for Granfer Sinatra
we want Elvis!
V ❖ v-
“No Sirrah”: .Next Wednesday our
telephone goes automatic. It will be
pleasant to get away from girls who snap
at you when you ask for a number,
switch off when you suggest they be
polite, and make unpleasant noises in
your ear when you’re talking . . . but
we’re going to miss the girl who chases
me from phone to phone through the
town when she has an important call for
me from Brisbane; the girl who says
“I’m sorry, Mr. Sirrah, but Mr. Johnson
has gone away to Maroochydore for
three days; I'won’t be able to get him
for you” ; the girl who receives a call
from a childish voice, asks the child
to call its Mummy, and asks “Did you
know she was playing with the phone?”
v ❖ ❖
“R.H.Q.”: I’ve seen the original
Mona Lisa (B. 23/1/’57) and, with every
desire to be cultured, fail to see anything
in her to arouse emotional disturbance.
As for Freud’s interpretation of her
expression as due to an infantile fixation
of Leonardo on his mother, I prefer the
more down-to-earth theory that she
smiled like she did because she didn’t
want to show her bad teeth. I knew a
girl who did exactly the same thing.
“H.C.8.”: I’ve long had to swallow-
mentally before accepting the fact that
football-matches can be won from the
sidelines ; wherefor a coach, though he
look as though he had swallowed a couple
of the club’s footballs, is rightfully and
cdngruously entitled to wear the same
victory-blazer as the yOung-’un who won
it with blood and sweat. But I confess
that my chin dented itself on my collar-
stud at the blazer sported by a middle-
aged, masculine-looking bloke on Sydney
Central assembly-platform. In gold
lettering it bore a club’s badge, monicker
and particular brand of competitive
sporf—marching-girls.
“Zend-Avesta”: A Brisbane flicker-
house screened a newsreel featuring sub-
mitted designs for Sydney’s new opera-
house. Prizewinning entry from Den-
mark was viewed in stunned silence, until
a voice was heard from the front stalls:
“Cripes, cop the roof! Wait till a Queens-
land cyclone hits it!” The cyclone of
laughter almost blew down the hall we
were in.
“Tabba”: Those piles of pennies in
Queensland pubs are not quite as hap-
hazard as they seem (B. 16/1 / ’57 and
6/2/’57). The centre column is graduated
in inches and tables near by give the
actual value of the column at any height
up to 9ft One-inch is worth 9s. 6£d. ;
6in„ £2 17s. 3d.; and Ift., £5 14s. 6d.
A 9ft. column would be worth
£5l 10s. 6d. The notice below the
tables rather optimistically tells us that
instead of pennies two-shilling pieces may
be used.
❖ * *
when the family is away. The ribbons,
cords and cloth bag-cover can be boiled
but not so the sheepskin bag, the leather
valve in the blowpipe, the reeds, nor the
thread that is used to render the joints
airtight: all of these are burned. Sterili-
sation of the wooden parts, however, is
more difficult, for some disinfectants will
blacken the ivory and damage the wood
“Why don't you watch where you re going!"
if used for more than a few minutes.
Having removed thoroughly, all gross con-
tamination by immersion in antiseptic, a
rapid rinse with metho, followed by an
efficient drying, leaves the way clear to
wind new thread round the joints, con-
nect a new valve, tie in a new pipe and
insert new reeds—if you had thought to
get them before you started and not
merely surmised the instrument cbuld be
cleaned.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ardoyne”: At the demolition of an
old church at Beaufort (Vic.) workmen
discovered two bottles containing copies
of newspapers dated 1868, the year of
erection of the church. A Melbourne
paper notified the quarterly fees for
scholars at a well-known public school:
4gns. for day pupils, 20gns. for boarders.
Fees for my son, who attended the school
last year.as a day-boy, came
to close on £5O a term, ex-
cluding books and sundries.
❖ ♦ ❖
“Narumee”: Blonde, but
far from dumb, she was
regaling her tanning-com-
panion, and most of the
beach, with an account of
last-night’s date. “And then,”
she shrilled, “we looked in
ht that Russian restaurant,
just in time for thd floor-
show. My dear, I always say
there’s nothing to beat those
Cassocks when it comes to
dancing! ”
*l* ♦♦♦ ❖
“Wusslean”: The Muni-
cipal Association of Victoria
wants an amendment of the
Health Act to give all coun-
cils control over the burning
of household refuse. Then
house holders throughout
Melbourne will be in the
position of those in Prahran,
who must get permission
from the town clerk in writ-
ing if they want to burn rub-
bish, even in an incinerator,
and notify their neighbors
(also in writing) of the coming
conflagration, which must not take place
on Sundays or Mondays (“washing day”),
or between the hours of 4 p.m. and 8 a.m.
Today it’s rubbish tomorrow it will be
pipes or cigarettes.
*J. 15
“Doormat”: Thank the Lord the
vicuna, a small, savdge South American
animal, is almost extinct, as it cannot be
kept in captivity. In Melbourne one
roll of frock-material woven from the
fibre of this savage little beast fetched
£lOO a yard! And the lot was sold-out
aarassf- -** -
* ♦>
„ ,
Mem . Most disarming statement
I ve heard came from an eminent scholar
invited to give a series of lectures at a
university. He said he was most conscious
of the fact that many other persons were
better qualified than he to lecture on that
subjeot, but he wished to take the oppor-
tunity to “hear again the clear, glad
sound of his own voice.”
* ❖ *
“Unda Maris”: At last I have dis-
covered the origin of the organ-stop,
Vox humana. I’d previously supposed
it was a half-hearted attempt to imitate
the human voice at its best, i.e., a full,
rich soprano. But, listening to Bach’s
“St. Matthew Passion,” I noted a passage
where, above Coro I, Coro 11, organ and
orchestra, a bunch of German kids shriek
the chorale-melody in ripieno. Their tone
was exactly the same as the vox humana;
an inhuman wail.
*l* ' *t* ❖
“1.H.P.” Fresh from college, enthusi-
astic, and determined to use the initiative
people were always talking about, she
had been told during lectures that the
boss sometimes forgot things and that a
good secretary was alert and often saved
him from himself. And that is why a
chartered accountant found a neat
E. &O. E. typed at the foot of the
balance-sheet.
“Apemantus”: Sorry, “C.A.A.,” but
it’s named the University of Western
Australia not of Westralia (B. 30/1/’57).
The euphonious Westralia —a Bulletin
coinage—is unlikely ever to be officially
recognised. It would make a precedent
for Sousetralia, and the Central State has
eaten enough crow without that.
+> +X+ *>
“Rosedale”: “Doric” (8., 13/2/’57)
feeling mad over near-millionaire lottery-
prizewinners echoes my sentiments.
Also getting my goat are people who
land one big win and still enter, often
copping other major pay-outs. They
should have the decency to be satisfied
with what they’ve got. Most glaring
example is a Sydney curio-dealer with
wins approaching £lOO,OOO in N.S.W.,
Victorian, Tasmanian and Queensland
lotteries.
* ❖ *
“Maitri”: A group of us were amusing
ourselves trying to think up a name for
the £3i-million opera-house. From staid
ones like The Arts Centre, Athenaeum,
Coliseum, Elizabethan Hall, we pro-
gressed to Pacific Palladium, Haunt oi
Harmony, Cahill Memorial Theatre and
Cahill’s Folly. We grinned when Bene-
long Beauty was suggested, but flinched
when someone came out with The
Drain usica tori um !
OTHER PEOPLE’S WEATHER
When Sydney weather s dry and warm,
As normally it might remain,
The Melbourne people dump a storm
Upon us, full of hail and rain.
When Sydney weather’s cool and wet,
Not more than eighty in the shade,
We always can expect to get
v A heat-wave in from Adelaide.
No sooner have we cleared the air,
The weather fair, the prospects fairer,
Than Queensland’s public send us their
Discarded mistress, Cyclone Clara.
O State to which all States aspire,
O even-tempered, normal State,
Your rain, your whirlwind, hail and fire
Are second-hand and second-rate!
But if we boldly face the fact,
Our skies may be for ever blue ;
We merely need to get an Act
Revoking Section Ninety-two.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


AS a substitute for- milk or cream
in their cup of tea the Russians
add a piece of lemon, the Moroccans
steep mint-leaves, the Tibetans use a
spoonful of yak butter, the Burmese add
garlic and sometimes dried fish, and some
British drinkers swear by the white of an
egg beaten to a froth. Now that the tea-
merchants have jacked-up the price
again I wonder if some of these overseas
drinkers can .suggest a substitute for tea
in our milk or cream? —“Emtee.”
£4 aJ*
“Chip”: A couple of feminine con-
testants reckoned a “factotum” was a
quizmaster.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tabba”: Both press and radio have
been telling us that Queensland will be
short of standard-grade petrol although
supplies of premiurii-grade will not be
affected. Pulled into a garage in Proser-
pine and asked for four gallons of super.
None in stock, so I went to the independ-
ent station down the street. “No super,”
I was told. “You’ll get all the standard
you want but there isn’t a gallon of super
in the town.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Booj”: Here are a few surnames
chosen at random from one postie’s walk-
book at our p. 0.: Foote, Toe, Hand;
Best, Lamb (in same house); Glass,
Beer, Hick ; Denier; Kiddikiss, Amor,
Conquest; Crutchleg; Karathansosso-
poulos ; and Smith.
“D.J.G.”: As the wiseheads predicted,
prices and terms for TV-receivers are
already down considerably.
Firms in Melbourne are
offering sets on fifteen-quid
deposit and twenty-five bob
a week —chickenfeed for the
single man of woman, but
still a bit beyond struggling,
middle-class family - blokes
like myself.
“Sister Ellell”: Patients
seldom have any pain
“slightly”—it’s always “the
twinges,” a “go” of gout, or
a “dose of the gasterik.” But
it was The End last week,
when one of my ladies
appeared and announced with
some confusion, on account
of her not being in the
shadow of the kirk, that she
feared she had “a touch of
the !
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦**
“Old Mac”: Tell “Cygnet”
the good-oil to rejuvenate his
old typewriter-ribbons comes
from the coconut. Brush it
on very lightly from end to
end, roll tightly and put
away for a few days before
using. As he apparently has
plenty to experiment with, it
will not matter if he is
too lavish with the oil at the
first try, as I was in treating this one.
[True; true.] My quarrel is with the
makers of a certain safety-razor with
single-edged blades. For many years they
produced a very efficient sharpening-
machine, but when the cogs of mine wore
out I found that it couldn’t be replaced—
“they are not making them any more.”
But I have beaten the racket with an old
windscreen-wiper holder with the slot
closed except for a blade-length at each
end. I slip a blade in the slot and strop
it as I would a cut-throat, multiplying
blade-life by six. . . £ut I’ll not guarantee
six lives for typewriter-ribbons, or that
the results will meet with the approval
of “Ed. B.”
/
*i* ❖ *l*
“Miss M.”: Re “R.M.’s” statement (B.
23/1/’57) that American colored troops
found “nigger” offensive, could that be
why the makers of the film, “The Dam
Busters,” while sticking closely to the
book in other respects, found it necessary
to change the name of Wing-Comdr.
Gibson's dog from Nigger to Trigger?
♦> *
“Wild Harry”: The vision “Dolphin”
conjures-up (B. 9/1/’57) of hungry
sailors, with polite R.A.A.F. waiters in
attendance, calmly sitting down at tables
to mess in No Man’s Land on Aitape air-
field in World War 11, immune from both
Yank and Jap bullets, may be good pro-
paganda for recruiting, but it’s also post-
war fantasy. Let’s get it right. I was with
75th R.A.A.F. Squadron, one of the first
to land on Aitape with the Yank-Aussie
invasion-force in, from memory, April,
1944. Nippon had made the airstrip,
still held it, and our job was to get them
out. Airstrip quarters? I never saw any!
All hell had been blow out of the place,
and to put your head out of a funkhole
was to apply for a one-way ticket to
eternity. Even before we left, several
months later, some miles had to be
travelled back to our section for rations.
Admittedly, like “Dolphin’s” yarn, these
weren’t always the freshest. Over to you,
sailor!
♦> ❖ *l*
“P.0.M.C.”: Without asking for
further details about that letter which
occupied three months travelling 500yds.
(B. 13/2/’57), I’ll take even-money and
wager there was something radically
wrong with the address.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Roni”: A Brisbane columnist foresees
a bright future for husbands because in
advertisements for motor lawnmowers
it is a pretty girl who is usually guiding
the machine. I’d say the idea is well
established already. We haven’t a lawn-
mower, which would be useless in the
shoulder-high grass that surrounds our
abode, but when my husband had fitted
a new handle on the reaping-hook, he
handed it to me, gazed at it critically, then
took it back with the comment, .“The
handle’s still a bit too big to fit your
grip,” and proceeded to lessen the bulk
still further.
“Ex-R.S.M.”: The extraordinary spell-
ing of Fijian proper names (B. 13/2/’s7j
goes back to the first missionaries, who
brought a printing-press to print hymns,
"It's the best picture-window around here"
psalnls and the New Testament in the
atiye i anguage but ran short of type
cause som / consonants were used so
often in pjjj an They therefore decided
tQ ma k e substitutions, such as using C
to re p re sent Th. Many attempts have
been made to bring Fijian spelling into
line, but Fijians of European stock
declare “It’s part of our tradition. the
“ You've been on the onions again , Sir Guy."
same sort of thing happened in Samoa,
where the Ng sound occurred frequently
in the local dialect of Polynesian, while
N was also used frequently on its own.
They decided to represent the Ng with a
plain G. Hence Pago-Pago, pronounced
“Pahngo-Pahngo.”
♦♦♦
“Stan”: A Melbourne man has taken-
on baby-sitting to help finance his TV-
receiver; he found many parents eager
to pay his charge of 2s. (supper and TV
inc.) to leave their children at his home
while they had a night-out themselves.
*» * *
“Tabba”: Now that the fashion in
advertising is to be “friendly,” with
friendly ways and friendly service, one
shudders upon arrival in Mackay jQ.) to
find that the Ford-dealer is Frendeley
Motors.
♦J*
“Ilin”: My New Australian friend
came to me in great distress. An acquaint-
ance had moved to the country and
allowed the N.A. family to rent his
cottage, paying monthly by money-order.
Several instalments had been paid, but the
landlord had written irately demanding
that they pay the rent or vacate his
cottage. “I have receipts,” said my friend,
and produced them. They were those
portions of money-order forms handed
to the purchaser to be forwarded to the
payee. My friend, seeing the postal
official retain the duplicate, and noting
that a fee was charged, had thought that
the obliging p.o. would forward the
m.-o. to the landlord, and that the parts
handed to her.were receipts!
“Narumee”: Surprised to learn that
the book-binding trade “is very hide-
bound” (B. 13/2/’57). It’s thirty years
since I saw a new set of books with those
tooled-hide backs — : they were R. S.
Surtees’s done specially for an uncle of
mine, and even then, though not idle, he
had to be rich to afford them.
♦> ❖
“Vega”: Talking of suitable vehicle
registration-plates (B. 30/1 /,’57), the
police patrol-truck at Gympie (Q.) begins
NAB.
❖❖ s *
“Kenyas”: An Irishman I know gave
me a lift in his car. At a busy city inter-
section we were held up by a policeman
to allow the cross-traffic to get by.
“Come on, you slow old b- said my
chauffeur to the representative of the law.
“Don’t keep us here all day! Get a b
move on!” I went hot and cold all over
at these stirring words, but the policeman
gave us a singularly sweet smile and
roared affectionately, “Who the hell
d’you think you’re talking to, you b —-
Irishman? All right, you can get crack-
ing now.” They’d been bhoys together
in Dublin.
❖ ❖ ❖ «
BANK-PREMISES without a manager’s
residence (B. 6/2/’57) will be greeted
with mixed feelings. The manager will
miss the comfort of stepping from his
quarters right into the office without
the need of walking (in the country) or
catching trams or trains in the city. Did
I say “walking”? Nowadays they all have
cars, so perhaps there’s not so much in
that aspect. Nor will he be bothered by
customers, especially at the weekend, who
ring the residence door-bell and hand-in
deposits they were “unable” to lodge in
banking-hours.
Most wives will be only too happy to
vacate those older premises with their
countless rooms, passages and stairs,
which call for never-ending cleaning.
Built when dqmestic labor was plentiful
and cheap they are nothing but a pain-in-
the-neck these days. Many such premises
will not be due for demolition for a lpng
time, and unfortunate wives will continue
as the unpaid cleaners of bank-property.
Often occupied rent-free, the premises are
far too big and inconvenient; some run
into three stories, with as many as six
bedrooms; some had the kitchen in the
basement and a lift to hoist the cooked
food to upper quarters, where it arrived
stone-cold.
Bathrooms on mezzanine-floors were
also considered good fun for those some-
what superfluous adjuncts of the
’seventies or ’eighties. Massive marble-
fronted fireplaces, usually useless for
warming the huge rooms, consumed great
quantities of fuel, all of which had to be
humped from below. As for the windows
and the curtaining of them, and the clean-
ing of the long venetian-blinds reaching
almost from the floor to the ceiling, the
less said the better. Another disadvantage
is the situation of these relics —right in
the centre, or on a comer for dust, of a
shopping-bldck, many face a pub or fish-
shop.
CEG.
BARRED OUT
The dinkum Aussie downs his middy
Unseen' by maiden, wife or widdy,
And drink alone he would far sooner
Than have a female share his schooner.
For bars are dirty, low and tough,
And women made of fragile stuff
(Although, of course, he does not mind
thgm
In the bars, if safe behind them;
He welcomes an attractive “her”
To pour him out a Pilsener ).
The shopper, wilting in the heat,
With arid throat and burning feet,
Is not allowed the filthy vice —
Except at slightly higher price /
Of knocking back a coupla glasses:
For bars are “out of bounds’ to lasses !
Now, women work, and women vote,
And fly a plane and sail a boat;
Why should so capable a dame
Regard her glass of grog with shame ?
So this conclusion I arrive at :
To make a woman drink in private
Implies an attitude of mind
Which should have long been left behind;
The pubs insult all drinking wimmen
—Won’t let HER —but welcome HIM
in! \
N.s.w.
DINKUM POM.


PERSONAL ITEMS
One of the best-known figures in Aus-
tralian racing over the years, Jack King
has seen the game from various view-
points—owner, trainer, owner-trainer,
and the man on the horse. In the days
when he was a leading amateur jockey
he was probably the only hoop in the
world who was also a sheep-breeder.
Born 64 years ago in the Wagga (N.S.W.)
district, where his father (the King of
King and McLeod, Nyngart, whose
kelpies dominated sheep-dog trials in
Australia for years and years) owned
Hanging Rock and Woolongough stations,
Jack was sent to Joey’s and, when he
did well there, his parents decided to
make him a dentist'. Jack had other ideas:
he found himself a place on Canonbar,
Nyngan, where he could follow his bent
for picnic-races, then very popular. In
JACK KING
the 1912-13 season he had 253 mounts
and won 102 races. Rejected as a
volunteer for War 1 because of a fallen
arch, he went abroad in 1924 and rode in
England, Scotland and France, meeting
most of the prominent horsey people in
those parts —which takes in a fair selec-
tion of interesting humanity. He also
shore a sheep at the Wembley Exhibition
in his best suit.
Jack has recently sold Narama, his
property at Singleton (3000 acres of
sheep-, dairying- and lucerne-country)
and is now negotiating for another. He
owns Braeburn, the big private-hotel
fronting Sydney Harbor at Kirribilli, and
at his Rand Wick stables he has six brood-
mares. So, with one thing and another,
his interests are fairly evenly divided
between Sydney and the bush. He’s
getting the decks cleared to write a book
on people he’s known, horse-training,
general animal-husbandry, water-con-
servation, and how to grow grain on the
black-soil country.
« •
George Pape is packing-up before
he leaves the ecclesiastical atmos-
phere of Selborne Chambers to
to on the N.S.W. Supreme Court
bench. He has been one of the
more prominent Q.C.s in Constitutional
cases in recent years, and was one of
the counsel assisting the Petrov Com-
mission. His gruff voice masks a sincere
and tolerant character, but it will, no
doubt, make his court at least stimulating.
• •
Home in Perth for good, the Right
Rev. C. L. (Tom) Riley, also known as
“the soldiers’ bishop,” who has been
Bishop of Bendigo for the past 18 years.
Son of the Most Rev. C. O. L. Riley,
first Anglican Archbishop of Perth, he
did Arts, Law and Divinity at Cam-
bridge, in the Kaiser’s War went through
the Palestine Campaign as a Light Horse
padre, and was oh active military duty
during, and after, the Hitler disturbance,
holding the appointment of Chaplain-
Gbneral of the Australian Military
Forces for 15 years. Before his trans-
lation to Bendigo, he had been rector in
a Perth parish, and Archdeacon of
Northam. Always interested in the wel-
fare of ex-Servicemen, he was State
senior vice-president of the R.S.L. in
Westralia for many years.
• •
Notable arrivals and pending arrivals
at the National University in Canberra
include Professor Sir Keith Hancock, the
distinguished Australian who will be
director of the research-school of social
sciences and Professor of History ; the
new director of the Mt. Stromlo Obser-
vatory, Professor B. J. Bok, who will
also be Professor of Astronomy; and
’Professor P. M. A. Linebarger, who is
Professor of Asiatic Politics in the school
of advanced international studies of
Johns Hopkins University, U.S.A. —he
will Work for five months with Lord
Lindsay in the research-school of Pacific
studies.
• •
• p
“K.R.”: Viscount Cobham, who is to
succeed Sir Willoughby Nome as
Governor-General of N.Z., was known to
Australian cricketers in the ’thirties as
the-Hon. C. J. Lyttelton. (Now 47, he
succeeded his father as 10th Viscount
Cobham in 1949.) He was vice-captain
of an M.C.C. team which toured Aus-
tralia and N.Z. in 1935-36 ; it was on a
“goodwill” mission, after the bodyline
uproar, and was not a No. 1 English
team —his highest 'score in first-class
games on the tour, 80, with an average
of 24. In 1938, as captain of Worcester-
shire, he sent Australia in to bat after
winning the toss, and Bradman proceeded
to hit-up 258, his thin) successive double-
century against the county. In 1954-55
Viscount Cobham was president of the
M.C.C.; an office held by other members
of the family. Many Lytteltons are
listed in Wisden; most famous is the Rt.
Hon. Alfred, the Test ’keeper who made
history in an 1884 Test at The Oval by
taking-off his pads and, the 10th bowler
tried, getting the bowling average, 4-19.
* «
Sketched at The Bulletin before he
set out for the Bowling
Carnival in Launceston (on this week),
T. K. (Tom) Shakespeare, N.S.W. Bowling
Association vice-president, has been in
bowls 35 years, reckons he’s grown with
the game; says, too, that it’s more than
a game, it’s a fraternity.. Now living at
Manly, with business interests in various
parts of the State, he’s a past-president
BOWLS
of the Parkes club, past-president and
foundation-member of the Central
Western Bowling Association (which
takes in Parkes, Forbes, Condobolin,
Peak Hill, Tullamore, Trundle, Eugowra,
Canowindra). He did a lot to
the game, or fraternity, in those parts.
Likewise the Seaboard Carnival, played
each year in Sydney at Manly and clubs
north to Newport, and the new clubhouse
and headquarters in Clarence-street,
opened by Sir John Northcott in January.
He was advocating this clubhouse h.q. in
1946, when there were 14,000 bowlers in
N.S.W. In 10 years, he argued, the
number would be at least double. An
option was taken on the Tudor Hotel for
£30,000 (it was sold recently for £95,000),
but his scheme was considered unduly
optimistic, and was dropped. Today
there are 66,000 bowlers in N.S.W. Other
interests include Rotary International
(past-president), Manly Surf Club, and
the Royal Automobile Club.
• •
The dust of, early records in sundry
Sydney offices (including The Bulletin’s)
was disturbed last week when Dr. Alan
Birch, lecturer in Economic History at
Sydney University, came out hunting
specimens * for the Business Archives
Council of Australia’s exhibition,
“Emporia Australiana” (he admits it’s lousy
Latin), to be held at David Jones’ emporium,
March 6-15.
Birch is 32, English (he was Research Fellow
at Manchester before coming here), and he does
not have the bustling, business-executive air ot
many university teachers these streamlined days
(while big shots in business, perhaps in sell-
defence, tend to withdraw behind the masks ot
genial squatters or unworldly professors); m
fact, he’s human; ready to sit down and have a
yarn. For all that, as secretary of the Business
Archives Council, he’s done a lot to bring about
that rapprochement between board-room and
lecture-hall which, on 9 imagines, is one of the
major aims of any Faculty of Economics worth
the name.
Most old-established firms are proud of that
fact. But details of the history of many of them
are more often matter for conjecture than study.
An understandable amount of official myth-
building, a plethora of taboos, complicate the
task of the historian, needlessly; no great man
or institution appears the worse for being
painted in the round. B.A.C. will doubtless do
something to iron-out these awkward angles.
The preservation of such stuff-of-history as
business-records, Birch remarked, is of
particular interest in Australia, since our his-
tory, more than that of any other country, is
largely pconomic. He did much of the historical
research for the recently-published C.S.R. book
South Pacific Enterprise (unkindly described by
someone as something between the
Bible and Gone With the Wind), and
he edits the Business Archives Council’s
half-yearly bulletin, which, in the words of
president Norman Nock, “provides an oppor-
tunity for the discussion of problems mutual to
the company-executive and the scholar arising
from the preservation of business-records and
the study of the history of business.” From
such a publication one expects solidity and
scholarship: what’s surprising is that it should
also be readable from the layman’s point of
view. The two issues this writer has seen are
proof of good editing.
• »
“A.M.”: Many Old Diggers will have
memories of Lt.-Col., later Air-Commo-
dore, R. Christie, D.S.O. and Bar, Croix
de Guerre and two “mentions”: he has
passed-on at his home-town, Bundaberg
(Q.), at 74. He joined the A.I.C. in 1910,
sailed with the first A.I.F. contingent,
served on Gallip. and in France, and be-
came C.O. of 51st Battalion. The D.S.O.
and Bar won at Polygon Wood and
Villers-Bret. indicate
his calibre as a
fighting leader. What
isn’t so easy to put
down is the affection
and respect of those
who served under
him, demonstrated,
over the years, all
over Australia.
He treasured in
particular an address
of appreciation from
the men under his
command when he
was O.C. Troops on
a troppship coming
home. Anyone who
collected such a
tribute in those
circumstances could
tell himself he had
handled a difficult
job well.
Joining the
R.A.A.F. as an
equipment-officer in
1924, he served at
various stations in
Australia during
War II: C.O. No. 2
Stores Depot, S.E.O.
No. 4 Maintenance
Group, and finally
A.O.C. No. 5 Main-
tenance Group. He
retired to Bundaberg
after the war. Seven
years ago, although
a sick man, he
accepted the pressing invitation of his old
comrades of the 51st to go across to Perth
(nursing-daughter Dot to keep an eye
on him) and lead them in the Anzac Day
march. He was proud that he managed
to complete the march, but was quite
unable to tackle the round of hospitality
planned for him.
• •
Col Mitchison, of Pymble Club, Win-
ner of the champion of club-champions
bowls-final in Sydney, is the second-
youngest player to have won that honor.
He is 36, three years older than Garney
Noble was when he took the title. The
new champion’s grandfather, the late
Jacob Mitchison, won the Edinburgh
and Heath (Scotland) singles-title in
1908. To mark Col’s win, his father,
Lex, gave him the gold-medal Grand-
father Mitchison won 49 years ago.
B.M.A.
John Hunter’s offsider up at B.M.A.
House in Macquarie-street, Sydney (and
wherever else in Australia the British
Medical Association spreads its ethical
and administrative net), is a compara-
tively young (38) medico from the N.S.W.
North Coast, Angus McNeil, who has
already proved himself as an Organiser.
He graduated from Sydney University
in 1941, did his residency at Balmain,
went into the Army (landed with the
2/6th Field Ambulance, Seventh Divvy,
at Balik Papan), and while in private
practice at Kempsey coped with a string
of demanding, honorary jobs ; alderman
(he handled the funds during
the 1949-50 deluge), mayor’, president of
the local R.S.L. branch, Legacy president,
and secretary of the Eastern District sub-
branch of the 8.M.A., among others.
A real North Coaster, born at Mur-
willumbah, and the third Angus McNeil
to live around Kempsey (his father and
grandfather are the others; his son made
a fourth), he retains a useful link with
the place in a patch of good earth down-
river ; ■ dairying, mostly pedigreed
Jerseys, and an enlightened feeding-
policy.
His new title is assistant general-secre-
tary of the Federal Council of the
B.M.A. in Australia, and ne is the first
to be appointed on a permanent basis.
• •
St. Paul’s, Melbourne, is lamenting the
loss of Precentor Henry Hugh Girvan. He
isn’t—he has got precisely the life-work
he wanted, school-chaplain, at Sydney’s
Cranbrook. The Rev. Girvan was chosen
for 'his singing-ability and his obvious
ability to discipline choir-boys, since he
had been a schoolteacher., (He was a
North Shore lad, and was a welfare-
officer during the war.)
Then the cathedral authorities dis-
covered he also had had commercial
schooling and could cope with the
cathedral’s not inconsiderable finances;
and then that he also had had training as
a master-builder and in architecture.
As Precentor in Melbourne he put the
Queen, the Duke of Edinburgh, the
G.-G. and ranking citizens in the correct
order at ceremonial services in the
cathedral; so he should have no difficulty
in putting Cranbrook boys in their
spiritual place:
• •
Into the Silence:
In a plane-crash near Goulburn (N.S.W.),
grazier Stephen Joseph Sykes, who won D.S.O.
and D.F.C. with the R.A.A.F. in Britain dining
World War 11.
At Gisborne (N.Z.), at 60, Maurice J.
Brownlie, the most outstanding of the trio of
Brownlie brothers, famous All Blacks. Kick-
ing-off against New South Wales in 1922,
Maurice played 61 matches with the All Blacks
at home and abroad —1922-1928. In South
Africa in the 1928 tour he led the All Blacks
in all four Tests. Served with the N.Z.E.F,
during World War I.
la Melbourne, at 71, William Carter Cook,
former president of the Timber Merchants
Association.
At Nambucca Heads (N.S.W.), on his 49th
birthday, Jack Kingston, one of Australia s
greatest Rugby League forwards. He toured
England with the 1929-30 Kangaroos.
In Melbourne, at 64, Leslie Ferguson, Old
Digger and selector of Vic. Sheffield Shield
teams. A member of St. Kilda’s committee
since 1925, he had played for that club and
once for his State. He kept indexed records ot
the performances of all players in Melbourne
district cricket.
In Sydney, at 64, Lionel Bloom, well-known
A.J.C. paddock-bookmaker.
In Perth, at 61, Harry Murphy, eldest son
of E. G. (“Dryblower”) Murphy. Harry s
under-age enlistment jn the 32nd Bn., A.l-F-*
was the inspiration for his father’s best-known
poem, “My Son.”
At Gawler (S.A.), at 81, George William
Brooks, well-known S.A. pastoralist and
Merino-breeder, He founded Merino studs at
Boconnoc Park, Mannanarie and Moorowi?.




ABORIGINALITIES
r PHE ram, brought in for observation,
A was put in the small paddock with
one of the horses, and the two were
soon good cobbers, grazing about the
paddock head-fo-head. In his frisky
moods the nag galloped wildly around the
fence, giving no heed to his short-legged
pal. At first the ram tried desperately to
keep pace, but -after a time he learned to
cut the corners and come up with his
mate for a few glorious seconds in the
straight before the horse forged away
again. Soon the ram began cutting more
and more off the corners in his efforts to
keep abreast, until we were treated to the
spectacle of a horse galloping joyously
around the perimeter of a square
paddock, while a Leicester ram scampered
wildly in circles in the middle. —“Tabba.”
* * * *
“Q. Ree” (Fiji): I had heard much
from my ex-Serviceman brother of the
beautiful singing and harmonising of the
Fijian troops. So, having come here, I
expected some lovely Fijian lullaby when
my housegirl opened her mouth to sing
to my baby. Instead, the strains
of “Irene, Goodnight” filled the house.
* * * *
“Zend-Avesta”: Court - proceedings
in Melbourne, in which it' was alleged
that a European ma-in-law had "got
somebody in the home-territory ftTput a
long-distance “curse” on the daughter-in-
law, remind me of a jovial Italian type
in North Queensland, during the depres-
sion. This character, after a barny with
an Australian neighbor, said: “I cursa
your horses! All da horses die soon!”
The Aussie grinned at him and said:
“Listen to me, the day my horses die,
your daughter will give birth to triplets.
Yeah, three kids!” The Itie looked
worried. “My dotter she notta married.”
The Aussie smirked at him: “So what?”
For a long time afterwards that Italian
was over every day, inquiring after the
health of his neighbor’s horses.
** t * *
“Sou’-west”: Up till 20 years ago
Westralian waters from Albany to
Geraldton were infested with the small
blowfish, or toadfish: that ridiciilous-
looking creature which has the trick of
inflating nearly to bursting-point when
taken from the sea. Iron-jawed, pop-
eyed, pug-snouted, tough-skinned, the
blowie is not only worthless as food but
virulently poisonous—even the voracious
gulls pass it by. Such blowies, in places
like Fremantle Harbor, swarmed round
the angler’s bait in clouds. Then in a
season they disappeared, their place
largely taken, by the almost-equally-
worthless trumpeter. Now the trumpeter
has vanished and the toadie is back, in
its millions. Could there be some piscine
arrangement whereby these two major
pests to fishermen never appear in plague
proportions together?
* * *
“Cay”: These two fires were started
in dhusual ways. On a sizzling
day a hawk flew into electricity-
wires, and fell, singed, to the long
grass below. In the other case, the
billy had been boiled and the campfire
carefully put out. But the billy, carried
across to the camp, had a hot coal stuck
to the bottom. Saddlecloths, quickly
wielded, saved the situation.
* * *
“Tabba”: The gulls had beeh wheeling
and pecking around the plough for some
time when a squadron of Leghorns
arrived from the near-by house of the
stationhand. The Lwo groups eyed each
other warily ; the. chooks with clucking
apprehension, the gulls with all the sea-
-bird’s hauteur. To start something, I
flung some chunks of bread, and the
scrum was on. The honors all went to the
web-foots. Any fowl lucky enough to
snatch a crust, instantly found her way
blocked by a pecking, clawing demon
hanging from an invisible sky-hook.
With both feet on the deck and face full
of tucker, Chook had no hope. Which-
ever way she turned, a fighting fury hung
in front of her, and always it ended with
her dropping the booty and scuttling for
safety. After a few repeat-performances
the gulls had the area to themselves, and
even when they had flown away in the
evening all the bread in South Oss
couldn’t coax those fowls into the taboo
region.
"If you don't like my cooking, go some-other place!"
“Blufire”: Here’s resourcefulness, if
you like! A 57-year-old Daylesford
(Vic.) man fell down the 50ft. shaft of an
abandoned mine, breaking a leg. After
strapping it with a bootlace and belt he
broke-up the only useful thing he could
find, a tree-branch, into three lengths,
each piece being slightly longer than the
width of the shaft. Using these as a
makeshift ladder he gradually worked
his way to the top. The tortuous climb
took from daylight to dark.
*
“Miss M,”: When young, I imagined
that being male implied a sound basic
knowledge of mechanics and electricity ;
“Yes, I know, boss—but I'm afraid of heights."
an illusion bent by disasters involving
males and motor-bikes, primuses, lawn-
mowers, tractors and vintage cars, and
finally shattered by a suburban agent.
Travelling along a country road in the
wake of a storm, he saw a broken power-
line. The loose end, with its 66,000 volts,
was flapping about on the ground,
emitting showers of sparks. Our hero,
recognising it as a bushfire hazard, tried
to extinguish it by pouring water on- it
from his water-bag—and lived to tell the
tale. ,
* * * $
“Jaykay”: We miss Fred, our well-
known fisherman ; he died of a heart-
attack vtfule hauling in his net. Small,
wiry and bow-legged, with a pair of
wicked, twinkling eyes, he told stories
by the dozen, fqll of malapropisms and
shrewd commentary on human nature.
I asked him what had happened to a
large ex-Navy craft that had gone from
the Bay after being moored there for
months. “She’s sold —the chap who
bought her’s going to run it as a barra-
cuda school?” I couldn’t get it. “Barra-
cuda school?” I queried. “Yes, yh>u
know, that gamblin’ business. They do
a lot of it at King’s Cross.” Baccarat!
Called-upon to take the elderly aunt of a
resident across to the mainland for an
urgent appointment, he later asked the
resident whether her aunt had reached her
destitution safely. He told me he’d drunk
a bottle of wine when he was sixteen and
the next day, when he’d recovered con-
sciousness, he’d signed the pledge and
had never broken it.
* * * *
i-
- The term “ringer” (B.
13/2/’57) is now —at least in the N.T.
and East Kimberleys—a generic term
covering all employees on a cattle-station
except manager, bookkeeper and cook.
(In that country, there are no boundary-
riders.) So Nevil Shute seems to be
pretty right. My experience of that
writer is that he is meticulous. His book
Slide Rule, for instance, is well worth
reading by anyone interested in aeroplane
construction.
* *
“Motuku”: “North Esk’s” mystery-
plant (B. 6/2/’57) is not a cactus, but one
of many species of Agave, probably
A. americana (the “century-plant”),
which is common in public gardens in
all the Australian States. “Century” is
misleading, as this Mexican plant’s life-
span is from 10 to 50 years. The sudden
shooting-up of flower-stalks before their
death, which quickly follows fruiting, is
surprising to people who have seen very
little growth in the plants over many
years. Known to Mexicans and Central
Americans as maguey, A. americana
produces, when about to flower, large
quantities of sweet mucilaginous sap,
which when allowed to ferment becomes
the well-known alcoholic drink pulque
(pull-kay); from which they distil a potent
aguadiente or fire-water called mescal.
“Tomtitter”: “Rosedale” (B. 6/2/’57)
is lucky if the birds around his menage
say “Fill ’em up!”— at least it has a
cheerful sound. The pigeons that
lugubriously lament outside my window
every morning madden me with their:
“Castor-oil, pooh! Castor-oil, pooh!” If
only I could administer to them Musso’s
famed treatment!
•H H*
Ibn
correct manner of naming Arabs
doesn’t appear to- have been
mastered by the press. Actually, the
Arab procedure is simple and primitive
and is identical with that adopted by the
Western world before surnames were
stabilised. V
When John, Tom’s son, became a
father and, as was the conimon practice,
transferred his father’s name to his off-
spring, the child was known as Tom,
John’s son. On growing up, the boy, in
turn begat John, Tom’s son. Where
there were other Johns (or Toms) in the
neighborhood, who were' also sons of
Toms, for the purposes of distinction
these were named, say, John the Baker or
John the Smith or John the Bastard or
John the Cruikshank. Later, all offspring
of the same father adopted a common
“sire-name” or surname and became John
(or William or James or Tom) Thomson
(or Smith or Baker, etc.). In Wales,
Hugh ap Shenkin similarly became Hugh
Jenkins and all his offspring remained
Jenkins, and Owen ap Hugh became
Owen Pugh.
The Arabs, however, haven’t yet
reached that stage. Saud’s son, Abdul
Aziz, is named Abdul Aziz ibn Saud,
while his son Saud is named Saud ibn
Abdul Aziz or, if important enough, Saud
ibn Abdul Aziz ibn Saud, etc., the length
of the genealogy depending on whether
the individual can afford to prove descent
from the Prophet (or, failing that, some
person of note) or not.
It is quite incorrect, however, to refer
to Saud ibn Abdul Aziz as Ibn Saud,
thus suggesting that he is his own father
—a feat beyond the power of even an
Arab.
TAFFY.
ULLADULLA
So lovely that far Pigeonhouse, the
mountain,
Through all the years keeps watching
from his tower;
Yet not alone with beauty your enchant-
ment
Has held this lover—wherein lies your
power ?
The beach of Ulladulla is a white smile
That flashes in a beard of woolly trees;
And sea-encircled dark rocks at the
headland,
A group of bathing aborigines.
The pbols of Ulladulla are like birds’ nests
With speckled eggs of raspberry and
blue,
Of lime and chocolate, of grey and
orange —
Sea-patterned pebbles, each a different
hue.
The rocks of Ulladulla stole a sunset
Which came among them lying on the
beach. ►
Against those cool lapped breasts they
held its splendor
Until its life had entered into each.
The cliffs of Ulladulla, made for pleasure,
Ate stacked up like a careless pack of
cards
In indolence against the grey or azure,
A hand laid down, and some that slipped
seawards. x
A top the cliffs are flowers for the seeking.
Not quickly found —small orchids in wry
grass,
And flannel-flowers in crevices, clematis
On twisty gums with leaves like polished
glass.
O happy Ulladulla, your “safe harbor”
Which gives Jo everything all it could
wish —
A fuming whale an idling ground for
leisure,'
And mollymawks a feast of cuttlefish,
And trim Italian trawlers named
“Micaela”
Or “Christopher” a haven —gives to me
That which I sought for long, a home, a
heaven
As near as on this earth could ever be.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.


r pHE six line-“boys” caught a 9ft.
-*• crocodile in the Vudal River (New
Britain), and ate the first 6£ft. of it at
the one sitting. A bloated deputation
staggered up to me about 9 p.m. to
remind mb I hadn’t issued any tinned-
meat that night: “Wonem samting?”
And they reckon these blokes need
unions to look after them!-—“Masta
Mak.”
* * * *
“Curio”: Can anyone remember when
the Sandy Hollow-Maryvale railway
was started or say when the Bunendong
dam will be finished? No matter ; they’re
being pushed ahead with real speed com-
pared with the Corinthian canal which
virtually cuts Greece in two. Nero
turned the first sod, and the canal was
ready for traffic in 1893.
* * *
“Woorarra”: Have noticed a curious
tendency amongst pied birds to inter-
mingle. Peewees and willy-wagtails
frequently nest on the same tree, with the
scissors-grinder sometimes chipping-in to
make a threesome. Magpies arid peewees
frequently feed together by the roadside,
and they repeatedly take the air in com-
pany to assail crow or hawk. One wo.uld
count the pied butcher-bird a dangerous
nesting-mate, but the black-and-white
hooded-robin doesn’t seem to think so.
There is this about it, of course: if the
magnificent songster spared the robin’s
babes a better watchdog couldn’t be
chosen. t
*** ’ *
“Maori Maid”: Time was when the
orchard work was done by horses. Then
came tractors and the horse was used to
pull the spray-cart and for other menial
jobs. Fruit was carted in from the orchard
to the shed and from shed to market by
motor-trucks. Then the final blow—a
spray-pump pulled by a tractor. The
horse kept the grass down in the pad-
docks and got into mischief when he got
bored. But now the procession goes like
this: tractor pulling the trailer with the
empties, pickers and dogs aboard ; horse
and spring-cart back in service once more
—instead 6f pickers trailing round with
ladders; one man in the spring-cart can
go round the high trees and pick all the
tops with less fatigue and more speed:
It’s not fast enough to make the horse
giddy, and anyway he likes peaches and
reckons the pickings are not too bad.
* * =;= * >
“Tabba”: High on the list of pots in
which flavor is ruined by overcleanli-
ness is the teapot. In a fit of zeal I took
our aluminium teapot to the dairy and
boiled it in a bucket with dairy detergent.
Result: one teapot beautifully white
inside ; no trace of tannin-discoloration
anywhere. Nor was there any flavor in
the brew; and the only way back was
another zealous boiling of the pot, this
time in a bucket of strong tea. Even
then it was weeks before the cuppa
sported the old, rich, satisfying flavor*
* * *
“Burr Imul”: Well-maintained prices
for lead and a slightly reduced demand
for copper the last year or so have been
caused partly by the policy of the motor-
industry in changing from six-volt to
twelve-volt ignition-systems. General
Motors started the trend in America in
1952, and estimated their saying on their
annual copper-bill as dollars —
a 12-voft system requires only half the ,
weight of copper in its wiring as a six-
volt system. In some circumstances a
slight increase in the amount pf lead in
the car-battery is necessary. Current
research into 24-volt systems could lead to
a further reduction in demand for copper
and the elimination of lead completely in
automotive batteries.
* * * *
“Lesuch”: Jackasses 'are like cats, they
take you or leave you. Breakfasting on
rump-steak by the window of the flat
four floors up, we must have been
observed by a kooka from a dead tree
on the same level 100yds. away. Taking
the plates with the scraps into the kitchen
I resumed the seat by the window just
as Jacko made a two-point landing on the
sill six-inches from my nose, saying
plainly, “What about me?” I brought
the scraps back from the kitchen and
held them out on a plate, whereupon he
unhurriedly selected the largest scrap,
and without a “Thank you” or “Kiss me
foot” turned and took-off for points
west. We’d never seen him before, and
haven’t clapped eyes on him since. Know
a chap who was cutting up meat for a
stew outside his seaside dwelling when
two jackies came along Tor their cut.
Standing on the chopping-block, they
attacked the main lump of meat, dis-
regarding the pieces he cut off for them,
so that he finished-up cutting the steak
around their beaks to save enough for
the stew.
* * * *
“Mac”: Old Jock, the big jack-hare
in the bottom paddock, was said to lead
the greyhounds on deliberately. He’d
had several close shaves, escaping in each
chase by turning uphill. If he had
remained in hiding those “gaze-hounds,’
with their weak sense of smell, would
probably never have found him. One
day when the guns were out after quail
he did not run, but lolloped slowly across
to his “form” between two tussocks of
rye-grass, where he squatted unseen until
a young red-setter, that would have had
no chance with him in a race, picked up
his scent, worked slowly up to him, and
grabbed him by the neck. Bravery,
stupidity or blind, unreasoning instinct?
* * * *
“Zakha”: During the Archseozoic and
the following Proterozoic eras (the long,
so-called pre-Cambrian period) Australia
consisted of some four or five islands
(B. 30/1/’57). By the Cambrian (that
is, the first period of the Palaeozoic; still
before life had got a foothold on land),
Stuartiana and Yilgarnia, the two lands
covering present-day Western Australia,
had joined together, but the sea still
stretched right down the centre of the
continent, cutting-off the eastern land of
Willyama; and there was sea over most
of Victoria and parts of Queensland. By
the Silurian period (some 150 million
years nearer to today, when the first land-
plants appeared), Australia was nearly all
one land; though there were still small
patches of inland sea. Australia
remained thus for millions of years, but
in the Mesozoic (the fourth era in which
the world’s geological history is divided)
it became for a time a land of great fresh-
water-lakes, and at ’ last the sea again
flooded in. The Great Ice Age of the
Pleistocene (that is, since the advent of
man), by locking-up in ice huge quanti-
ties of water, drained-off these seas ; and
apparently a subsequent general raising
of the land has prevented any new inflow.
* * * *
“Comber”: Unk White’s critics of his
tree whose carved legend grew upwards
with it (B. 23/l/’57) may be right, but
how do they explain this? When I first
saw a stand of saplings 43 years ago on
Burrawong station (N.S.W.) the marks
of wires put round them to swing ham-
mocks and bush-larders were only four
feet from ground-level. When J left the
locality about 10 years ago the marks
were roughly on a' level with my head
when mounted on a horse. ’
* * * *
“C. Coral”: In the early years of Aus-
tralian settlement it wasn’t uncommon
to find that ships just off the slips were
already rotten. Governor King, returning
to N.S.W. from Tassie in the just-launched
Porpoise with his wife and family, had
to put back to port twice because of
the unseaworthiness of the craft, which
after inspection was condemned and
replaced by a Spanish prize. An English
writer claims it was standard practice to
build ships in the open air, keel and
frames left unplanked for 12
months to allow seasoning. The effect
of rain and sun on timber that had been
pickled by long soaking in brine, or
boiled in kilns, was rot and dampness
right through, and frequently the
skeleton of the craft was grassy with
fungus and mildew before its planks
went on. “Tree-nails” of wood instead
of nails or bolts of copper or iron, and
the general poor fitting, allowed water
to get to the hearts of plank and frame
to help the. rot. At,one time dry-rot was
so usual in ships being built for the
British Navy that they rotted on the
.builders’ way before being launched.
Much of the timber was green, which
helped the rot a bit more.
* * * *
MENTION of “pre-shrunk” timber (B.
6/2/’57) recalls that Australia led
the world in timber-seasoning.
It was done by the aptly combined
efforts of sap-stained , sawmillers and
C.5.1.R.0. scientists. Challenged by the
difficulties of drying our woods, most of
which were collapse-prone eucalypts, they
developed methods of solving problems
which had plagued timbermen from Til-
bury to Talahassee for centuries.
This achievement had its beginnings in
the mountain-ash belt of Victoria, which,
from a convenient distance of 50 miles,
supplied Melbourne with the Cinderella
of the eucalypts—a wood which, lacking
weight and durability, shrank lamentably,
but was tolerated as building-scantling
because it was cheap and readily avail-
able.
Intelligent observation by a couple of
sawmillers following the unplanned
steaming of some dry boards led the way
to microscopic examination of the wood-
cells and their collapse in drying. The
indispensable process of “reconditioning”
was evolved and, combined with kiln-
drying, lifted our Cinderella of. woods
into the glamorous world of joinery and
flooring. In fact, by 1936 it was being
exported to Canada to be used as floor-
ing in the “best” rooms, while the other
rooms were floored with plain oak or
maple.
Methods were passed on and modified
to suit the timbers of other States, and
some pine flooring from the South Aus-
tralian State Mills sent to England was
so impressive in its quality that Scandi-
navian flooring-exporters sent a repre-
sentative out to Mount Burr to query
the facts as they heard them regarding
the processing and kiln-drying. They
were shown that the flooring did derive
from forests less than 30 years old and
that our kilns did allow a finished floor-
ing to be produced from a standing tree
within 14 days.
The manager who explained these
things to the Scandinavian was George
Grant, -who some years before in the
Warburton Hills was the sawmiller whc
fortuitously used some mountain-ash
boards to baffle a steam-exhaust and
thus started a notable sequence of timber-
development.
SEVENELMS.
THE BLUE-EYED DOG
The way to fame is open wide :
By crooning in a kind of moan ;
Being a villain doubled-dyed
And to mass-homicide be prone ;
Finding the biggest precious-stone;
Discovering a brand-new wog —
And then there's Joe ; by this he’s known :
The bloke that owns the blue-eyed dog.
You’ve heard of chaps who’ve taken pride
In cats that listen at a phone;
In parrots that have multiplied
Figures correctly on their own,
Or sung in well-trained baritone ;
There was the famous jumping frog.
As king of these you must enthrone
The bloke that owns the blue-eyed dog.
In south New South, down from the
Clyde,
Right I to the border is his zone ;
That freak pooch trotting at his side,
Joe on his old fleabitten roan,
That dog might be 'rather a drone;
But, still, his boss gets lots of grog
From simply being—and this alone —
The bloke that owns the blue-eyed dog.
Envoi.
Prince, I am here thus to depone :
He really sets ’em all agog
Into whichever town he’s blown —
The bloke that owns the blue-eyed dog.
N.S.W.
BO.


Yard
Cape
★v
\
QUEENSLAND
*
\
"k
NEW SOUTH WALES
*
VICTORIA
-
Portland * v ’*~
Cape York
to
Portland"-
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMFANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman)"; Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald!; Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmontb,
2 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B.
Tilemann. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District
Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher. 0.8. E. (Chairman)'
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, RockbaniDton and
-Charleville.
UT23
Business, Robbery, Etc
Side-effects of Restriction
Vt 7 HEN import - restriction
was intensified as part of
the shock - treatment which
economists and the Treasury
considered advisable to counter
inflation and the slip in the
balance-of-payments in 1955 and*
1956, it was admitted by those
who advocated import-restriction
• that one of its side-effects would
be to add to the "inflationary
forces within Australia by
reducing the .quantity of
imported goods available and
removing desirable competition
with local manufacturers.
But it was never officially
envisaged (apparently) that
another, and perhaps more
potent, inflationary influence
would be the loading of prices
that would occur simply as a
result of trader-to-trader dealing
in licensed imports.
Today there is an immense
amount of importing of scarce
commodities under someone
else’s licence. For instance, the
Australian agent of an English
firm may not have enough quota
of his own to satisfy the demands
of his customers. But another
trader may have quota but no
agencies (or perhaps no finance),
and he can be used as a go-
between to import—with a sub-
stantial loading or rakeoff for
his pains—-the other firm’s
proprietary line.
This, of course, increases the
landed cost of the agent’s goods
considerably.
It has been estimated by one
Sydney textile-merchant that not
more than a third of Australia’s
textile imports at present are
being landed at first cost. For
the remainder a “premium” of
some sort, he contends, is being
paid to a third-party.
J. T. N. Foley, chairman of
the British Tobacco Co. (Aust.),
said recently that his companies
were buying from other Aus-
tralian manufacturers leaf
equal to 30 p.c. of their import
allocations and paying a
premium to get it.
Clearly, import-restriction, as
at present administered, has
created a class of importer who
can take a solid rake-off on
goods which, under normal
conditions, could be imported
direct without any loading.
In the textile trade this load-
ing may be as much as 20 p.c.
or 25 p.c. Indentors used to be
quite content, to work on 5 p.c.
or less in normal times!
The loading of import-costs
under restrictions is an example
of the. way in which rules and
regulations cause inflation by
comparison with the operation
of the open-market economy.
Once one weakness in the
economy is buttressed-up by
“controls” the controls extend,
and all sorts of inflationary
squeezes set in.
Another inflationary force at
Government level is that caused
by company taxation. At present
most expanding companies have
to find a big proportion of their
capital finance out of ploughed-
back profits. But before any
profits can be ploughed-back
they bear taxation at the rate
of Bs. in the £ at least. Clearly
some companies are attempting
to overcome part of this tax-slug
by charging consumers a higher
price than otherwise would be
the case.
The need for heavy
capital outlay has generally been
caused by inflation in the past.
Passing-on the cost of Govern-
ment taxation, in the form of
price-increases means more
inflation in the future.
Yet it is obvious that if
essential industries are to be
established they must be built-
up with ploughed-back profits,
in the main. The middle-class
investor hasn’t the investment
funds at his disposal that he
had in 1939. And Governments
themselves never create ■ capital
—-they merely consume it.
There is a fundamental
economic lesson to be learnt
from these examples of the side-
effects of import-restriction and
company-taxation. We will all
be studying this lesson a great
deal harder before very long.
General Industries’ Loss
TN picking investments in this
A “vigorously selective” share-
market, how selective must you
be! “A small loss” from
General Industries! Profits in
past years have averaged about
£350,000 a year.
The financial term ends on
February 28, and “at this junc-
ture,” says the retiring chairman
and managing-director, R. A.
Spring, “it is not possible to give
a detailed analysis and 'reasons
for the reversal”; but outside
observers think the plunge into
refrigeration at the ebbing of
the tide, plus the initial cost of
establishing TV - manufacture,
may have offset the profits from
the traditional turning-out of
stoves, baths, sinks, etc., which
during the past year have been
harder to sell, anyway, because
of the fall in homebuilding.
The interim ord. div. of 4 p.c.
paid last October is likely to bd
the only ord. distribution for
the term. From 1943 to 1956 a
steady 10 p.c. was paid, with
bonus-issues in 1950 and 1951.
The ord. shares have slumped
from a “highest” of 495. 6d. in
1956 to 18s. last week.
N. H. B. Keysor, one of the
founders (in 1916) of the K.F.B.
side of the business and before
that an old Metters production-
man, will follow R. A. Spring
as chairman of General In-
dustries, the holding co.
' V v
On the Job
r T , HE Americans running Cater-
* pillar in Australia have been
hustling with unusual success.
The company, Caterpillar of
Australia Pty., Ltd., was
registered (£3 million capital) in
March, 1955; in November,
1956, the plant was sited at
Tullamarine, an outer Melbourne
suburb, and, as the factory was
being finished, in January, this
year, the first Caterpillar grader
was turned out.
William Blackie, executive
vice-president in U.S.A. and
chairman of the Australian sub-
sidiary, already has announced
plans to double the size of the
factory, with a plant to house
machine-tools, a metallurgical
laboratory, assembly-line and
manufacturing equipment. This
will bring the company’s invest-
ment here to rfiore than £6
million.
Caterpillars expansion is an
example of what dollar-
jnvestment may do for Australia,
especially by highly successful
companies which can lead from
experience and strength. The
company is one that Premier
Bolte courted on his American
trip.
■ Blackie and his associates,
currently looking over dealer-
organisations throughout the
nation, have no illusions about
spectacular growth by American
standards.
Their investment underlines,
instead, a feeling of certainty
that growth, as the Prime
Minister has forecast, will be
steady during the next decade at
least.
The new plant now announced
will make sections of three
models of diesel-tractors and
two models of shovel-loaders,
currently imported from
America.
Caterpillar’s expectations are
that the industrial growth of the
nation, will at least equal the
agricultural, water-conservation
and timber-production expan-
sion. )' ;*vi -TY'
Rhythmic Deposition
[From li. Owen]
is the meaning of the
™ term “rhythmic,” with
reference to the conditions under
which “source” and “reservoir”
beds in oilfields are deposited?
Well, it is generally accepted
that all petroleum source-beds
and most (but not quite all)
petroleum reservoir-beds are
sediments. It is accepted, also,
that the conditions under which
the strata were laid-down and
the environment in which
deposition occurred are very
important factors in their
prospects of producing commer-
cial quantities of oil.
One of these conditions is the
alternation of the “grain” of the
deposited material from fine .to
coarse or what is much the
same thing—from impermeable
to permeable. The intervals
between the transition from fine
to coarse —or vice versa —even
when measured on the geological
scale may be long, and they
may be represented by consider-
able thicknesses of strata. The
important point, however, for the
oil-man, is that such, a change
does occur within a stratigraphic
interval which will permit of
economic investigation. Deposi-
tion of this type is said to be
rhythmic.
On the other hand, the non-
rhythmic (sometimes called
“static”) type of deposition allows
of the laying-down- of great
thicknesses of strata without
appreciable change in porosity
or permeability. This condition
has persisted over non-economiq
intervals both in Cape Range 2
and Woodside 2 wells.
Non-rhythmic deposition may
be induced by a variety of cir-
cumstances, a common (but by
no means the sole) cause being
isostatic adjustment, whereby the
floor of the basin, on which the
•clastic material is settling, sinks
at the same rate as that by which
the thickness of the deposit is
increasing, thus keeping the
surface of the material at a
constant depth.
Clues as to the reasons for,
and the local characteristics of,
the movements giving rise to
isostatic adjustment may often
be obtained from ihe detailed
examination of relevant out-
crops and more rarely of
well-cores. A proper under-
standing and a correct interpreta-
tion of such evidence will greatly
reduce the faulty extrapolation
of surface structure.to depth and
the false translation of geo-
physical' survey data. It will
also avoid the necessity for much
abortive drilling.
{lt is clear from Mr. Owen’s
explanation that, while
“rhythmic” in a geological sense
has a good deaf to do with rbck,
it has nothing whatever to do
with rock-’n’-roll, contrary to
what some of his inquirers
seemed to think.]
Wool worth’s
which
usually comes up with a
forward move in answer to the
rival Coles, is now negotiating
for the Port Phillip Hotel, which
fs second only to the adjoining
Young and lackson’s as Mel-
bourne’s best-known pub.
The hotel, built, for the most
part, over a lane leading from
Fhnders-lane to Flinders-street
and facing Flinders-street station,
seems an ideal situation for a
chain-shop unit; but master-
drapers have never shown any
desire to get into the street.
Two big shops, Mutual Store
and Ball and Welch, do very
well, but they would succeed
almost anywhere in the city on
their merits as superior depart-
ment-shops.
Cr. Pat Coleman, the business
brains of the A.L.P. in Victoria,
who did a crackerjack job as
chairman of the Olympic Park
trustees and construction com-
mittee and succeeded as Minister
for Transport : in the Cain
Cabinet, is the current lessee of
the Port Phillip.
Inflated prices of real-estate in
Melbourne’s Golden Mile, plus
heavy taxes and the exactions of
the brewers, has made hotel-
keeping less profitable, despite
the increase in bar-trade. Very
few noted hoteliers survive, and
most houses are run on tight
departmental (bar, dining-room,
accommodation) lines.
John Pascoe Fawkner owned
a pub on the Port Phillip site.
More than a century ago it was
Hodgson’s Folly, until the Port
Phillip Club took it over. Earlier
it had been Yarra House, a
meeting-place for ladies —as, no
doubt, Woolworth’s would make
it again.
Scottish House, the Bridge-
street, Sydney, headquarters of
Mcllwraith, McEacharn (B.
13/2/’57), brought a highest bid
of £400,000 at auction on
February 20. It was passed-in,
the reserve price being £475,000.
As pointed out here previously,
book-value of all Mcllwraith,
McEacharn’s freeholds and
leaseholds (June 30, 19515) was
£245,406, obviously only a
fraction of their real value.
* * , *
Linoleum Holdings was
pointed out in B. 23/l/’57,
when the shares were 275., as a
first-class investment “for those
who don’t mind waiting for their
benefits.” With the accounts due
for presentation next month, the
sharemarket has suddenly taken
the scrip to 30s. In the 1956
term the floor-covering trade
suffered a setback, and the div.
was dropped from 9.6 p.c. to
p.c. The scrip then weakened
in sympathy.
X •
* * *
Dalgety’s suggest that the
wool-cheque for 1956-57 may
reach £435 million (against
£334 million in 1955-56) and
may run second only to the
record of £636 million for
1950-51. The 1956-57 clip will
be about a million bales heavier
than, that for 1950-51, and the
average price so far this season
has been 78s. 6d. a pound,
compared with 145 d. in 1950-51
and 61.7 d. last season. Current
quotes for wool at auction are
firm, with record prices for some
special lots.
* * *
Masonite Holdings, Ltd., has
maintained its ord. interim (no
deferreds now) at 10 p.c. p.a. It
has raised £300,000 by a private
loan to help complete its Eildon
(Vic.) project. Trading by the
operating co. showed a bigger
profit for the half-year to
December 31. The building-
board industry is growing more
competitive, but Masonite is in
the box-seat. For the present,
however, its 10s. shares, as The
Bulletin- pointed out, seemed
high enough at 255.
* * *
There are wits who declare
that self-revelations of Aus-
tralian cigarette - manufacturers
about sources of their raw
material' could be carried too
far.
* * *
L. J. Hooker, Ltd., the vigor-
ous Sydney real-estate concern,
has declared an interim at the
rate of 20 p.c. p.a., compared
with a total of 15 p.c. last year.


of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
“JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5f ins. x 3i ins.,
6| x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
§ Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan [,'j;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304 - 308 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
“Let us possess the
public confidence”
The first notes issued by the Bank of New South
Wales were inscribed: Let us possess the public
confidence so long only as, by faithful discharge
of the honorable trust -reposed in us, we may
shew ourselves worthy of it.
That was in 1817, when the Bank, the first in
Australia, was established by Governor Lachlan
Macquarie with the assurance that it would
“flourish to the benefit of the country at large.”
Today, almost 140 years later, the Bank of
New South Wales is an Australia-wide institu-
tion with assets exceeding £500,000,000 and with
over 1,000 branches and agencies serving every
State and Territory of the Commonwealth as
well as New Zealand and Fiji.
Just over one year ago, the Bank of New
South Wales Savings Bank Limited was estab-
lished and, in the twelve months since, more than
250,000 people have deposited over £50,000,000
in savings accounts with the Bank.
That is a demonstration of “the public
confidence” and an echo and confirmation of
Macquarie’s faith of 140 years ago—a faith that
is being fulfilled afresh every day as the Bank
continually extends its services for “the benefit
of the country at large”;
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
A GREAT AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5707C
INVESTMENT
ANNUM
2 years
You Choose
PLAN A
Fixed Period Deposits
8% per annum for 2 yrs.
7i% per annum for 18
months
7% per annum for 12
months
or PLAN B
Deposits Refunded on Call
7% per annum for 2 yrs.
6i% per annum for 18
months
6% per annum for 12
months
4\% per annum for 6
months
4% per annum for 3
months
INTEREST
PAYABLE QUARTERLY
TERM DEPOSITS
HUNT BROS. (Securities) Limited—-
one of the Hunt Bros. Group of
Companies—offers this unique invest-
ment opportunity, made possible by the
continued expansion of Hunt Bros.
(Motors) Pty. Ltd., Hurstville, and
Hunt Bros. (Sydney) Motors Pty. Ltd.,
Parramatta. These well-established
organisations, which enjoy the highest
financial stability, hold direct franchises
for the complete range of FORD
VEHICLES.
Application forms and full details from
Secretary, Hunt Bros. (Securities)
Limited, Cnpfts Avenue, Hurstville.
■Phone LU 2074—0 r any Member, of
The Sydney Stock Exchange.
HIHIT l BROI
(SECURITIES) II J j [ LIMITED
' CROFTS AVENUE, HURSTVILLE. 'PHONE LU 2074
BANKERS: Commercial Bank of
Australia Ltd.
AUDITORS: Harrison, Knox & Leslie,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.).
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
THE Government has firmly
dug its heels intp the ground
over the controversial new Rent
Bill, which figured so pro-
minently in the North Lewisham
by-election, even to the extent of
bringing out that fierce and
objectionable last resort, the
“guillotine.” Otherwise the bill
would certainly not become
statute by April, if at all. The
Standing Committee have taken
three months over the first two
clauses. They could argue
interminably over the contro-
versial Clause 9.
This is the first big occasion
on which Conservatives have
sunk their very real fears of
electoral unpopularity in an
energetic and determined effort
to set right a long-standing
anomaly and to act in the
general interest. Indeed, their
obduracy may well t contain an
element of overcompensation
for the failure of the milk-and-
water Act of 1954.
The questionTn most people’s
minds is whether they are trying
to achieve too much, too
quickly. Briefly, the bill will
provide for dwellings of low
rateable value to remain under
control with a rent-limit fixed
at twice the gross rateable value.
But dwellings rated at £4O and
over (£3O in the provinces) will
be removed from control, so
that, in time, rents will adjust
themselves according to the free
market. Thus the tenant who
has for long enjoyed security of
tenure will, on six months’
notice, have to pay-up or go else-
where.
This will affect 800,000
tenants, whose reactions are
naturally indignant the more
so since a large number of them
(perhaps one in four) are retired
people. Many are paying rents
that were controlled in the First
World War, and may have to
pay double, or slightly more
than double, their present
amounts; and those who pay
the 1954 “economic” rent expect
a3O per cent, increase. But
there are stronger fears, espe-
cially in inner London, that a
free market will encourage
business interests to compete for
residential property for use as
offices, thus forcing up the rents.
The landlords, on the other
hand, point out that it is not their
responsibility, nor within their
resources, to subsidise a vast
number of sitting tenants. They
pay more for their coal, for
their cigarettes and for their
clothes. Why not, then, for their
ients?
From the national point of
view, houses and flats are decay-
ing from lack of maintenance
and large properties are waste-
fully employed because it isn t
worth the tenants’ while to move.
The adjustment will be pro-
tracted, essentially painful and
merits compensatory measures.
A revaluation of pensions, both
public and private (e.g., tax
incentives to employers to. in-
crease the pensions of their late
employees), has been mooted ;
and the Government might have
to consider making, house-
purchase simpler, by reducing
the present excessive stamp-
duty and by influencing easier
mortgages.
No Nonsense
An instance of firmness in
industrial relations which has
resulted in the strikers giving
in is worthy of record. The
Briggs Motor Bodies factory at
Dagenham, a subsidiary of
Ford’s, has a bad record of
trade-unionism run riot &nd
Communistic agitation (there
were 162 stoppages in 1956).
At one time the. strike
threatened to spread throughout
the Ford group, involving
20,000 workers. It ended at an
informal discussion between the
management and officials of the
three unions concerned. While
promising to consider the
workers’ grievances, the manage-
ment refused to ( discuss the
reinstatement of a shop-steward
whose dismissal had provoked
the strike other than through the
‘ proper channels.” The labor-
relations manager made plain
that the company was determined
to “exert industrial discipline,”
would not listen to complaints
until the men were back at work,
wouldn’t submit to dictation,
and, altogether, would stand no
nonsense from unofficial strikers.
This is very different from the
too-familiar recent pattern, with
the Government painstakingly
trying to hold the peace between
the management and an un-
official strike-committee, while
the unions looked on, embaras-
singly and helplessly. In fact, the
unions are as much interested
in “industrial discipline” as the
employers.
It is clear, too, that the reces-
sion in the motor-trade has had.
a chastening effect.
Fashionable Theatre
Before the war, the Hay-
market was more than our
premier theatre ; it was our most
exclusive one. A play rarely
ran for more than six months.
By that time the dress-for-
dinner audience was becoming
exhausted. So the play, if doing
well, wopld discreetly be trans-
ferred to another theatre where
lounge-suits and slightly lower
prices seemed less incongruous.
This exclusiveness is now as
dead as the town-house. Yet the
Haymarket is still the fashion-
able theatre, if not the theatre
of fashion. During the past few
years the Tennent management
have established it, with con-
spicuous success, as a “star
attraction” playhouse, with
Knights and Dames abounding.,
Moreover, as accredited
“culture” purveyed by a “non-
profit-making” concern, receipts
are exempt from entertainment-,
tax. Another anomaly of this
age of expenses-accounts, death-
bed farms and handy tax-losses,
the financial set-up is complex
and, to the layman, inexplicable ;
but “co-operative” is, perhaps, a
truer description than the other.
The audience is nation-wide.
That is to say, those who prefer
“a straight play* to a musical-
comedy invariably include a
visit to the Haymarket in their
London trip, believing that their
choice is, artistically and intrin-
sically, the best.
They certainly get excellent
value for money. The household
may be by the sea or in a drama-
worthy-county (Sussex, for
example) but it will be odd, if
not slightly dotty ; the play, rich
in situation and trenchant in
dialogue, will inevitably have
affinities with Chekhov ; and the
Knights, Dames, Esquires and
old retainers will be seen to good
advantage in splendid fettle and
in well-written parts.
Enid Bagnold’s “The Chalk
Garden,” the current attraction,
has run for almost a year. After
having originally been turned
down by London managements,
it came via New York and is
true to pattern. There is no
lack of aphorisms; humor and
ostensibly “strong” situations
and John Gielgud’s highly-
scrubbed production helps Edith
Evans, Gwen Ffrangcon Davies
and Felix Aylmer to make the
most of their chances.
Yet it must be admitted that,
to the sophisticated theatregoer,
neither the literary nor the
dramatic values are high. Be-
neath its glossy veneer, the play
is as patently artificial and
synthetic as a story in a woman’s
magazine, . neither real nor
romantic but in a contrived half-
world between the two.
Two-man Revue
Michael Flanders and Donald
Swann have contributed words
and music to several revues. They
are now appearing at the
intimate Fortune Theatre in their
self-styled after-dinner farrago,
“At the Drop of a Hat,” in which
they hold the stage for two hours
without scenery, propertied or
cast.
Flanders carries the entertain-
ment by his personality and,
apparently, effortless wit. He is
buccaneer-bearded and a fine
actor but confined to a wheel-
chair because of polio. Swann
is diffident, nervous and self-
effacing, expressing himself
entirely in his music, which is
*‘n o n-c ommercial” and of
inestimably higher quality than
that of most entertainers at the
piano.
The two are complementary
and blend well. Their entertain-
ment, if slight and sometimes
above the audience's heads, is
exceptional for its refinement of
presentation and style.


The WILD CAT COLUMN
A. E. Ltd. *
A LTHOUGH it struck soon
after conversion to a public co. in
1946, A. E. Goodwin, Ltd., has made
steady progress over the last eight years,
and heavier co.-tax was one of the
factors preventing a further improve-
ment in earnings last term.
Goodwin’s engineering-works are on a
10-acre leasehold at St. Marys (N.S.W.),
and the co.’s shipyards and machine-
shop occupy another 10 acres (partly
freehold) at Port Kembla. At ,St. Marys,
about 30 miles from Sydney, the co.
found that the “advantages claimed for
decentralisation” were, in its particular
case, “illusory,” and subsequent
expansion led to the purchase of
property at the Sydney suburb of
Auburn, where recently completed plant
is now in operation.
Over the last few years the co. has
added diesel-electric locomotives and
road-graders to its extensive range of
manufactured products, which already
included railway rolling-stock, coal-
mining equipment, steel ships and
barges, cranes and fabricated steel
structures. An exchange of scrip
completed in the current term gave
Goodwin control of the Sydney engineer
and steel-founder, Hadfields Steel Works,
Ltd.
, Late in 1955 301,950 £1 shares were
offered to shareholders at par on a one-
for-two basis and, with the Hadfield
purchase, paid capital has risen from
£324,500 to £1,181,101 (including
£50,000 in 5 p.c. prefs.) since 1951. A
continued 10 p.c. div. on the enlarged
capitafwould, with the pref. div., require
£115,610 (£3138 less -than last term’s
earnings).
Development of the then non-
productive Auburn site tied-up most of
the capital introduced last term, net
earnings for the period (to June 30)
slipping by £25,316 to £118,748. Despite
an increase in operating costs, profit,
before tax, was £2384 higher at £202,448,
provision for tax (including retrospective
charges on holiday- and sick-pay
provisions) taking £83,700 (up £27,700)
and amortisation and depreciation £28,326
(up £5421):.
f— Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. , Ord. N .serves, serves.t
5 p.c.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
Intangibles written-off, £17,153 .. 49,234
Unexplained addition, £17,145 .. 66,379
1951.. 69,977 11,250* 8 = 10,980 47,747) 114,126
1952.. 88,5.91 2,500 8= 37,332 48,759 162,885
1953.. 95,277 2,500 8= 45,018 47,759 210,644
1954.. 768 2,500 10= 56,272 51,996 262,640
1955.. 064 2,500 l'O = 56,272 85,292 347,932
1956.. 748 2,500 10 = 76,856 39,393 387,325
* Includes 3J years’ pref. div. arrears to 30/6/’5O.
t Subject to intangibles, £29,851, brought in
30/6/’56.
Net earnings covered the pref. div. and
15.1 p.c. on average ord. capital
compared with 25.1, 19.2, 16.5 and 18.4
p.c. back to 1952. Ord. div-., unchanged
at 10 p.c., required an extra £20,583,
The balance-sheet shows a £202,092
increase in the cost-Zew-depreciation
value of fixed assets, freeholds, reflecting
the Auburn purchase, jumping from
£59,590 .to £229,140. The share-issue,
however, enabled this expansion to be
carried-out without affecting working
capital, which improved by £77,127 (to
£695,282) over the term. Debtors were
slower to pay, increasing by almost a
third, and creditors rose sharply to
£397,095 (up £148,103):
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
Ord. .. .. 562,725 601,100 946,371
Reserves .. ... 262,640 347,932 387,325
Overdraft .. .. 368,488 275,718
Creditors, etc. .. 158,872 249,082 397,095
Tax provision .. 119,108 132,713 150,726
Pinal divs. .. 36,263 29.356 45,991
£1,189,608 £1,778,701 £2,253,226
Freeholds .. 30,130 59,590 229,140
Leaseholds .. 23,411 25,322 25,177
Plant, etc. , . . 223,877 295,966 328,652
Shares .. .. 500 75,594
Stock .. .. 279,567 874,861 904,067
Debtors .. .. 505,986 495,816 658,964
Cash, etc. .. 117,137 27,148 1,781
Intangibles .. 29,851
£1,189,608 £1,778,701 £2,253,226
Intangibles reappeared in the accounts
with the purchase of manufacturing
rights (£22,552) and sharC-issue expenses
of £7299. J
The new plant at Auburn is now
equipped to produce one diesel-loco-
motive a week, with the prospect of
doubling its output if State Governments
can find the funds necessary for the
modernisation of their railway-systems.
Goodwins have lately received big orders
for diesels. Although the demand for
road-building equipment has slackened,
orders jii the current term are expected
to employ the whole of the co.’s
productive facilities for “some time to
come.”
At 235. the f.-p. £1 ords. would
return 8.5 p.c. from a 10 p.c. div., the
net tangible backing at June 30 last
amounting to 275. 6d.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
OPREADING itself at a remarkable
rate in the post-war years, the A.C.A.
finished last term —its 35th —with life-
policies assuring £14,297,658 in force.
Ten years earlier (June 30, ’46) life-
policies amounted to only £6,7-85,219.
Skilful and cautious management
helped the A.C.A. to avoid many of the
internal difficulties which wrecked or
crippled most life-offices set-up after
World War I, and today the co., managed
from Sydney, is successfully operating
branches in all mainland States.
Until 1949 industrial - department
premiums made up the bulk of the co.’s
income, but as collection costs rose more
emphasis was placed on the O.D. and
non-life departments and less on indus-
trial business. Although primarily a life
office, rapid expansion of the non-life
(insurance) department has lifted that
section’s premium income from £5736 in
1950 to £73,046 last term:
Income.
r~ —Net Premiums. ——. Interest,
Life. Non-life. Rents, etc. Total.
19.14 ..£541,171 £22,000 £113,584 £670,735
1955 . . 581,206 29,480 115,617 726,303
1956 .. 010,649 73,046 118,976 802,671
After achieving the change from an in-
dustrial to a predominantly ordinary life
office without any reduction in premium-
income, the A.C.A. ceased to write new
industrial business in 1^55.
The change brought a much higher
proportion of whole-of-life policies, with
heavier initial expenses, and came at a
time when many industrial endowment
policies were maturing. As a result,
claims and expenses made-off with a large
share of total revenue for a few years.
However, the expense-rate fell as indus-
trial business was curtailed, and, even
with the growth of the co., expenses last
term were £5761 lower than in the pre-
ceding year and £12,684 under those in-
curred in 1953: —
%
June, Income. Claims. Expenses. Debit. Funds.*
1953.. 222 436,483 242,603 45,559 f 2,762,855
Surplus.
Revaluation freeholds, £200,000 .. 2,962,855
Unexplained additions, £lB6B .. 2,964,723
1954.-676,755 427,285 237,972 10,475 f 2,975,198
Tax refund, £3671 .. .. .. 2,978,869
Revaluation freeholds, etc., £25,215.. 3,004,084
1955.. 439,815 235,680 49,785 f 3,053,869
Tax refund, £247 .. .. .. 3,054,116
Capital profits, etc., £6231 .. .. 3,060,347
1956.. 381,310 229,919 190,164$ 3,250,511
* Net funds apart from capital.
t After paying- 7 s>.o. div. on prefs. and ords.
$ After paying 7 p.c. div. on prefs. and 10 p.c.
on ords.
To give a more realistic indication of the
co.’s strength, freeholds in Melbourne,
Sydney and Brisbane were revalued in
1953 (Brisbane in ’54), adding £225,000
to policyholders’ funds. Premium income
rose by £73,009 last term (to June 30), an
extra £43,566 m non-life premiums and
£29,443 on the life side making up the
total increase, while the expense-rate fell
from 38.6 p.c. to 33.6 p.c. of net pre-
miums. Total claims were down by
£58,505, and the surplus of iiicome over
.expenses and claims jumped from £50,803
to £191,442.
The life-fund was increased by
£162,581 to £3,139,344. On a 3| p.c. net
premium basis liabilities under policies,
plus actuarial reserves, were estimated
at £3,049,463, to show a surplus of
£89,891, the major part of which was
allocated as bonuses. The net return
from the life-fund was £3 17s. Id. p.c.,
leaving a margin of 7s. Id. per cent,
between actual and assumed rates. The
provision for unexpired risks irf the non-
life section at £54,000 (up £28,000) was
well above the recognised 40 p.c. of net
premiums.- From accident department
profits only, a modest £1278 was provided
for divs. to shareholders.
Although some offices have recently
shown a greater interest in industrial
shares and debentures, the A.C.A. has
made little alteration to its holdings of
this class of investment, Government
and' semi-Government securities remain-
ing the backbone of the co.’s investment
portfolio. At balance-date there was a
sizeable sum in mortgages (£910,345)
and freeholds (£767,177), these two
items accounting for almost half of the
book-value of total assets:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Capital .. .. £14,610 £14,610 £14,610
Reserves anil pro-
v visions . . 46,691 52,128 58,445
Liabilities . . 74,298- 153,910 144,484
Unexpired risks re-
serve . . . . 9,00 0 26,00 0 5 4,000
Life fund. . . 2,920,530 2,976,763 3,139,344
£3,065,129 £3,223,411 £3,410,883
Freeholds .. 745,522 780,086 767,177
Equipment, etc. .. 66,092 64,097 63,775
Shares, subsidiary. 13,323 13,32,3 , 13,323
Shares, debs., etc. 350,726 372,747 369,330
Mortgages . . 940,117 938,350 910,345
Loans ... .. 560,211- 588,082 657,073
Debtors . . . . 35,549 24,754 60,504
Govt, securities, ,
etc 316,114 419,487 545,238
Cash, etc. .. 22,485 24,118
£3,065,129 £3,223,411 £3,410,883
Loans to municipal councils, church
institutions and policyholders have in-
creased with the growth of the co:, and
at the end of the term building-societies
owed £244,152 —slightly less than in the
three preceding terms.
The change in the class of business
written by the co. has been accomplished
With a high degree of success, and
already policyholders have participated
in the benefits which have followed,
bonus rates being increased in both 1955
and 1956;'
The scrip is not listed.
r
Buckingham’s, Ltd.
nPHE main profit-winner for the
Buckingham group is the parent’s
large department-store in Oxford-street,
Sydney, but the 18-store retail organi-
sation finds a lot of its income outside
the inner-city area and is in a good
position to benefit from the expansion of
suburban retail-trading.
Listed on the Sydney ’Change in 1936,
the parent co., Buckingham’s, Ltd., was
formed in 1920 to take-over a retail
drapery and cash - order business
established in 1878. Although the group
now finances a large volume of credit
sales, the original cash-order section was
passed over to a group of employees
soon after the foundation of the co., and
has since operated successfully as the
Australian Cash Order Co., Ltd.
The group operates eleven stores in
Sydney and suburbs, one in Brisbane,
five in N.S.W. provincial centres [New-
castle, Wollongong (2), Katoomba ■ and
Blackheath], and one at Surfers’
Paradise (Q-). With the development of
the organisation, four separate trading-
names t— Buckingham’s, Ashleys’,
Curzons and Mitchell’s have been
adopted,
Steady expansion over the last decade
has called for additional funds, and
since 1951 paid capital has grown from
£380,000 to £820,750, issues in 1950
(one-for-four) and 1951 (two-for-seven)
carrying premiums of 50 p.c. and 40 p.c.
respectively.
Last term a further £351,000 was
raised on 61 p.c. notes, convertible at the
holders’ option into ords. at par in 1960.
The options are negotiable. Colonial
Mutual Life holds 475,000 ss. 5 p.c.
prefs., the balance of paid capital being
in f.-p. ss. ords.
Turnover for the year to July 31, ’56,
increased by £230,867 to a record
£4,964,629, but competition was keen,
and higher costs and taxation made
trading le§s profitable, earnings falling
to 1.9 p.c. of turnover, compared with
3.2 p.c. in the previous term. After
putting something aside for taxation
(in the parent’s'' accounts it was £70,740,
down £24,686)j and providing £34,563
for depreciation 4 (up £5631), the con-
solidated net profit fell by 35.4 p.c.
(£54,052) to £98,349:
Parent and Subsidiary.
r Dividends— v Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. r~ Orffr- serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
5 p.c. •
Special provision for collections,
£lOBO .. .. .. .. 411,089
Share premiums, £30,754 .. .. 441,843
1952.. 41,507 5938 5 p.c.= 34,162 1,407 44'3,250
Special provision for collections,
£57,73 449,023
Share-premiums, £1266 . . . . 450,289
1953.. 80,125 5938 8 p.c.tz 56,159 18,028 408,317
Special provision for collections,
£24,503 492,820
Share-premiums, £l2B .. .. .. 492,948
1954.. 5938 10 p.c.= 70,200 39,156 532,104
Assets revalued, £200,000 .. 732,104
Special provision for collections, ,
£7539 739,643
1955.. 5938 12ip.c.= 87,750 58,713 798,356
Pre-acquisition reserves, £10,969 .. 809,325
Net increase provision for collec-
tions, £10,707 820,032
1956.. 98,349 5938 llip.C.= 78,975 13,436 833,468
* Subject to intangibles, £85,210 at Bi/7/’56.
The ord. div. was dropped from 121 p.c.
to lli p.c., after working on a 15 p.c.
basis for the interim and preceding final
divs. Earnings covered the pref.-div. and
a return of 13.1 p.c. from ord. capital,
compared with 20.8, 15.6, 10.5, and 5.2
p.c. back to 1952. The £98,349 was equal
to 5.9 p.c. of total shareholders’ funds:
During the term the furniture-business
of A. N. Askew Pty. (Wollongong) was
bought, but extensive building-
alterations disrupted trading and the
branch traded at a loss for the period
under review. Another new store was
opened at Bondi Junction (Sydffey) and
extensions made to the main Sydney
store.
These movements are reflected in the
balance-sheet by a £222,746 increase in
fixed-assets, £136,302 being added to the
cbst-/<?.v.y- depreciation value of fixtures
and fittings:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £118,750 £118,750 £118,750
Ord 702,000 702,000 702,000
Reserves .. .. 532,104 798,356 833,468
Mortgages.. .. 122,400 154,200 212,200
N° te s •• 351,000
Creditors, tax pro-
vision . . .. 820,203 857,677 1,113,461
Staff fuild . . 22,829 24,969 21,146
Final divs. .. 45,0 8 9 55,619 38,069
£2,363,375 £2,711,571 £3,390,094
Land, buildings .. 453,557 716,272 802,716
Fixtures, fittings.. 335,544 377,251 513,553
Shares . . . . 1,752 1,584 1,934
Stock .. .. 727,217 641,457 841,001
Debtors . . . . 829,925 958,749 1,134,386
Cash .. ... 8,450 9,328 11,294
Intangibles .. 6,930 6,930 85,210
£2,363,375 £2,711,571 £3,390,094
Stocks (up £199,544) increased at a much
higher rate than turnover, and debtors
jumped by £175,637 to £1,134,386.
Creditors (up £255,784), an extra £58,000
under mortgages and the £351,000 note-
issue provided the funds necessary for
the £678,523 increase in the value of total
assets. Shareholders’ funds represented
48.7 p.c. of the balance-sheet totals.
In the first two months of the current
term* there was a fall in turnover, but
later figures show a “considerable”
improvement. The new Wollongong
store is now trading profitably, and
with the more recent additions to the
chain enlarging their contributions to
group earnings* the main problem
is one of rising costs.
The f.-p. ss. ords. have a net
tangible backing of 10s. 4d., and at
6s. sd. return 7.8 p.c. from a 10 p.c.
div. Options last sold at lOd.
South Australian Portland
Cement Co., Ltd.
TS7ITHIN the last decade the produc-
’ tion of cement. in Australia has
almost trebled. Last year output reached
2,014,000 tons, but the increase over
1955 was the smallest for several years.
Generally the industry is in a position
now to meet all local demands, except in
Victoria. Where cement requirements for
houses have fallen, a bigger demand has
developed for other types of building and
construction.
Actual tonnages for the last half-dozen
years are traced in the following table:
Portland Cement Production in
Australia.*
June. Tons. June. Tons.
1951 . . 1,235,000 1954 . . J,700,000
1952 .. 1,237,000 1955 .. *1,920,000
1953 .. 1,439,000 1956 .. 2,014,000
* Source: Common wealth Bureau of Census and
Statistics, Canberra.
This S.A. co. has been manufacturing
Portland cement for the last 64 years.
About 10 years back it bought a lime-
stone deposit at Angaston (near Adel-
aide) and proceeded to concentrate all its
cement-making activities there. Produc-
tion first began at the new location in
November, 1952. Since then the co.
has transferred a second kiln from its old
works at Brighton, to give the new plant
a total capacity of 150,000 tons of cement
a year. This term it was planned to install
extra grinding capacity which will enable
the whole output to be processed at
Angaston. Previously, part of the clinker
(unground cement) was sent to Brighton
for grinding. The cement will then be
railed in bulk to Rosewater, the new
point of distribution, where work on
three large silos and ancillary handling-
equipment was also to be finished early
this year.
Well over £1 million had been spent
at. Angaston by the end of the year and
remaining commitments were for around
£250,000.
Because of the steep rise in construc-
tion-costs, original estimates of the
capital-expenditure on the project were
exceeded, and, in August, 1952, share-
holders were offered an extra £182,315 of
ord. scrip, at par, in the proportion of
one for two. Half the new capital was
payable on application, and a first call
of ss. is due at the end of next month.
So far the co. hasn’t indicated when
the final instalment will be needed. In
the 1955 term an additional £300,000 was
raised in 6 p.c. debentures.
Last year plant operated at full
capacity, and all cement produced was
sold, mainly within S.A. Before writing
ne't profit £12,764 bigger at £87,826, an
extra £27,427 (£125,000) was set aside


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—A Dvr.
57-1-36
I.A.C
It will shortly file and issue a
Prospectus for an issue at par of .. .
iiil
to
m.
CD
CD
<ra
0*
CD
CD
ML
<✓>
crci
el
Dl
O
CTD
O
CD
5D*
currencies from 3 months to 20 years at
your option.
INTEREST
7%
6%
5i%
Interest per annum.
CURRENCY
6 years
3 years
2 years
payable quarterly, free of exchange.
INTEREST
5%
41%
4%
3£%
Interest per annum, payable quarterly, free
CURRENCY
12 months
9 months
6 nlonths
3 months
of exchange.
6i% per annum (compounded) 4 to 20 years Interest
automatically re-invested annually principal DOUBLES
in 1 1 years.
Established over 27 years.
Assets exceed £40,000,000
Underwriting Brokers to the Issue: lan Potter & Co.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Canberra.
Australia's Leading Hire Purchase Organization
Industrial
Acceptance
Corporation
ltd.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH * HOBART
o
BBSaSS?
LONG TERM
■
■
SHORT TERM
lo
2'°
AW.:.:::' .
CUMUtATIVf :
Requests for a prospectus, when
available, may be made to
MEMBERS OF STOCK
EXCHANGES
and all Branches of Hie
E. S. & A. BANK LIMITED
NATIONAL BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
• and
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
for depreciation and £44,800
(£86,000) for taxation:
June, Ke-
-80, Profit. —serves.
£ £ £
1951.. 23,281 7i p.c. 15,461 147,591
To staff fund, £2303 .. 145,288
Share premiums, £30,913 176,201
From tax reserve, £lOOl.. 177,202
1952.. 27,291 p.c. 24,672 179,821
To staff fund, £1590 . . 178,231
Tax overprovided, £2206.. 180,437
Capital profit, £5OOO . . 185,437
, To depreciation provision,
£25,000 ■ . . . . 160,437
Unexplained reduction,
£4558 .. .. •• 155,879
1953.. 35,346 74 p.c. 32,475 158,750
Net capita] profit, £12,905 171,655
1954.. 67,122 74 p.c. 34,184 204,593
Capital profit," £5412 .. 210,005
1955.. 75,062 8 p.c. 36,463 248,604
Tax overprovided, £583 . . 249,187
Capital profit, £485 . . 249,672
1956.. 87,826 10 p.c. 45,578 291,920
Profits shown above include minor
unexplained additions to reserves.
On average paid-up capital the
£87,826 profit was 19.3 p.c. as
against 16.4 p.c. in 1955 and
14.7, 8.1 and 8.6 p.c. to 1952.
With' earnings responding well
and the end of constructioh-
work in sight the co. added 2 p.c.
to the div., making 10 p.c. for
the year.' That took only 51.9
p.c. of the profit, leaving £42,248
to add to reserves, which also
gained * from the other small
items interlined in the table.
The financial position was
stronger:
1954. 1956. 1956.
£■ £ £
Paid capital 455,788 455,788 455,788
Reserves .. 205,874 248,604 291,920
Mortgage . . 6,477 6,249 6,012
Debentures . 300,000 .300,000
Overdraft .. 322,951 83,478 21,130
Creditors . . 100,302 76,970 84,678
Due to sub-
sidiaries . 23,000 23,000 23,000
Tax pr’vision 38,500 41,200 86,000
Final divs. , 17,092 19,371 27,347
1,169,984 1,254,660 1,295,875
Land, build- •
ings.plant 886,738 899,642 * 882,929
Shares .. 25,756 25,756 25,756
Stock .. 154,571 203,520 203,345
Debtors .. 102,809 125,fi77 123,780
Cash, bonds 110 65 60,065
1,169,984 1,254,660 1,295,875
When the books closed, working-
capital (the surplus of current
assets over liabilities) was
£59,792 bigger at £145,035.
Borrowed money figured less
prominently, too, equal to
11s. 7d. in the £ of shareholders’
funds as against 13s. lid. a year
ago.
On Adelaide ’Change the
f.-p. £1 shares fetch 30s. for a
return of 6.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. Including the uncalled
capital net asset cover is 30s. Bd.
a share. The contribs. (paid to
10s.) are at 19s.
There is one other competitor
in the State, Adelaide Cement
Co., Ltd., which has recently
completed expansion plans of
its own.
O. T. Lempriere & Co., Ltd.
DURING the six-months
period May-October last
year, there was a further decline
in the production of non-ferrous
• castings. This first became
apparent towards the end of
1955. Main reasons for the
reduced demand are the lower
activity in the building-industry
and an easing in the demand
for castings for general engineer-
ing purposes. (
For its own part, O. T. Lem-
priere and Co., Ltd., an old
hand in the manufacture of non-
ferrous metals and alloys (it
first began processing ores, etc.;
during World War I), reported
a “well-maintained” demand
for its products for the term
ended June 30 last; though in
the presence of regular quarterly
wage-increases, which began
again -in N.S.W. in November,
1955, and competition from
overseas suppliers (which meant
selling-prices had to* be kept
down), the co. was at a decided
disadvantage. Consequently, in
terms of profit last year’s show-
ing was well below the preced-
ing term.
After setting aside £25,425
(up £6583) depreciation
and £14,500 (down £19,166)
taxation, net profit claimed by
the co. was £17,560, down
£37,012 (67.8 p.c.). As a per-
centage of the co.’s £lBO,OOO
ord. capital, profit remaining
after paying the pref. charges
(£3000) was only 8.1 p.c.
In 1955 the return was 28.7 p.c.
Included in the figure for that
year was £4161 earned by the
subsidiary, O.T.L. Drill Bits Pty.
(Early in the 1956 term the name
was changed to Commonwealth
Diamond Tools Pty. and the
controlling interest disposed of.
Capital is now held equally with
L. M. Van Moppes and Sons,
Ltd., England):
Parent and Subsidiary.
Re-
J’ne, Profit, r-r Dividend.——, serves.*
5 p.c. Pref. Ord.
£ ’ £, £
Loss sale assets, £ll 121,543
To stock-fluctuation provi-
sion, £30,000 . . • ■ 91.543
1952.. 64.482 3,000 12 p.c.=21,600 131,420
Loss sale assets, £639 . . 130,786
v Note -issue expenses, btc., ,
£2710 , . . . . 128,076
1953.-57,593 3,000 12 p.c.=21,600 161,069
Profit sale assets, £2214 • • 163,283
To stock - fluctuation provi-
sion, £25,000 . . • ■ 138,283
1954.. 612 3,000 12 p.c.=21,6,00 156,295
Profit sale assets, £2917 .. 159,212
Assets revalued, £174,513.. 333,725
To stock - fluctuation provi-
sion, £25,000 .. •• 308,725
1655.. 3,000 12 338,697
Parent Co.
Add reserves on separation
of subsidiary, £2343 . . 341,040
Profit sale assets, £3352 . . 344,392
Tax underprovided, £602 .. 343,790
1956.. 3,000 12 p.c.=21,600 336,750
* Subject to goodwill, £50,000 at
30/6/’55.
The other offshoot, Point
Lookout Antimony Mines,
N.L., earned a net profit of
£21,390 from its activities, which
reduced past losses to £18,014.
Because of the fall in the price
of antimony the co. stopped
mining operations about the
end of 1955, and last year it
sold all the assets connected
with the mine. Loss on the
realisation, which • was fully
anticipated in the 1955 report,
was £53,298, making a total
debit balance on the p. and 1.
account of £71,312.
This year “substantially
improved” results are expected
by the parent co. to follow from
an overhaul of operations and
the operation of a new furnace
and auxiliary equipment
especially designed for the recla-
mation of secondary non-ferrous
metals. Teething - troubles
caused the completed furnace
and plant to operate only inter-
mittently last year.
Because of the separation of
the subsidiary’s accounts the
balance-sheets are hardly com-
parable:—
r Parent —> Parent
and Subsid. Co.
£ £ £
Paid capital— 1954. 1956. 1956.
Pref. . . 60,000 60,000 60,000
Ord. . . 180,000 180,000 180,000
Reserves .. 156,295 838,697 >336,750
Stock-fluc’t ion
provision . 55,000 80,000 80,000
Notes . . 100,000 100,000 100,000
Overdraft . . 210,349 228,571 259,994
Creditors . . 180,049 224,222 107,881
Due to associ-
ate co. .. - 10,670
Tax provision 31,785 31,807 14,500
Pinal divs. . . 15,900 15,900 15,900
989,378 >1,259,197 1,165,695
Freeholds .. 73,750 271,448 260,304
Plant . . 85,168 128,914 131,622
Shares
subsidjary .' 400 901 901
Due by
subsidiary’. 94,949 90,625 70,986
Shares other
cos. . . 4,226 4,226 44,153
Stock . . 443,-228 432,849 386,660
Debtors .. 236,900 279,416 220,303
Cash . . 757 818 766
Intangibles . 50,00 p 60,000 50,000
989,378 1,259,197 1,165,695
To Case the strain caused by
the current high prices of most
metals and the new capital-
expend i t u r e, the co. has
borrowed £lOO,OOO from one of
the life offices. The loan is for
20 years, and carries interest at
6 p.c.
Not too put out by the way
the year turned out, the share-
market prices the £1 ords. at
345. (365. a year ago), to return
7.1 p.c. Including the stock
price-fluctuation provision net
tangible asset support is
£ll 2s. 3d. the prefs. and 60s. 9d.
the ords.
“Papinaipi”
PAPUAN Apinaipi Petroleum
Co., Ltd., plans to commence
drilling in its (Papuan) permit
area next August or September.
The co. “will engage first in
exploration for oil at moderate
depths.”
Last term’s share-issue resulted
in 3,007,841 shares being
allotted (7841 more than the
number originally offered),
1,000,000 going to Associated
Freney Oil Fields, N.L., and
500,000 to Associated Australian
Oilfields, N.L. The new scrip
carries negotiable options giving
the holder the right to buy, one
ss. ord. at par within the next
five years, the co. reserving the
right -to require option-holders
to take-up their options if oil, in
commercial quantities, is dis-
covered in the co.’s permit area
within the same five years.
Drilling-plant, a National 55
and a National T 32, will be
acquired from A.A.O. and
Associated Freney by the issue of
approximately 2,400,000 f.-p. ss.
shares carrying the same option-
rights.
A call of Is. on the new-issue
scrip is payable in March, mak-
ing the ss. contribs. paid to 2s.
Further calls are expected later
in the year, When fully paid
the issue will have brought in
£751,960.
The options have proved
popular in recent months, selling
lately at Is. 7d., though the f.-p.
ss. shares bring only around 3s.
Uranium Holdings, N.L.
CALLS of Is. 3d. will be made
by Uranium Holdings,
N.L., in April and June of this
year to finance the purchase of
the Tewantin (Q.) leases (B.
13/2/’57), and necessary spiral
and separating plant. The calls
are expected to bring in £162,000
and will give the co. a paid
capital of £325,000 in f.-p. ss.
shares. On October 31 last
current assets and investments
exceeded liabilities by £63,332.
Approximately £lOO,OOO will be
required for the plant, and after
meeting the £100,870 purchase-
price of the leases there should
be roughly £20,000 available as
working-capital.
It is estimated that rutile and
zircon production-costs will be
between £45 and £5O. a ton, after
allowing for amortisation and
payment for the leases, and the
board aims to sell forward at
least half of the anticipated
4000 tons annual production of
rutile.
Forward sales have fecently
been negotiated at £75 to £BO
a ton, but the quantity to be
provided is not stated. The
spiral plants should be in opera-
tion within i six months and the
magnetic separator by the end
of the year.
The scrip, paid to 2s. t>d., last
sold at 9d.
Rye Park Scheelite, N.L.,
whose operations in rutile-min-
ing have not so far lived up to
expectations, is celebrating the
fact by having a row on the
board.


Women’s Letter
SYDNEY
This time last year everyone was com-
plaining of the humidity and rushing
,between David Jones’ Gallery and Mark
Foy's Gallery to take in the two art-
shows offering within an hour of one
another. This week they were doing the
same thing, with the added coincidence
that Mr. Charlefs Moses, the A.B.C.’s
gen.-man., spoke the opening words at
the D.J. show.
As permanent bookings are generally
made for important art-shows nowadays,
Sydney people wilj probably be rushing
hither and yon next February also. And
one has a faint suspicion that they will
again be complaining about the humidity
as they rush.
Well, the two art-shows were the
Society of Artists’ exhibition of prints
and drawings at David Jones’, which was
opened at 2 p.m., and the Blake Prize
showing at Mark Foy's, which was
opened by Mr. J. M. D. Pringle at 3 p.m.
Of course, artists predominated at both,
and it was interesting to see that the
most favored garment by far among well-
dressed women-artists is the slim black
linen sheath, sleeveless and open-necked
to display enviable suntans, and worn
without a hat.
Miss Jean Bellette and Mrs. C. Nield
were among (hose who favored this smart
style. They were among those who took
a little trip up Eliza beth-street from one
show to the other. Others who did so
were Mrs. Alec Morgan, looking elegant
in sand-colored linen, and accompanied
by son Dr. Bruce Morgan Dr. and Mrs.
Tom Bateman ; Mrs. Ted Merewether,
wearing a pretty hat of mignonette
green ; Mrs. Douglas Dundas, in a wide
white hat and a suit ; Mrs. Frank Hodg-
kinson, in an emerald-green beret; and
Mr. Hal Missingham (director of the
Art Gallery), wearing an emerald-green
bow-tie, with . his black-and-white-check
gingham-shirt.'
☆ ☆ ☆
Bayview was in the social limelight
during the weekend. On Saturday night,
which was clear and starry by the
greatest good fortune, color-films were
shown on the wide, sloping lawns of
Hopton Lodge, the home of Mr. and
Mrs. Roy McCaughey, and were viewed
by about 250 people, who later had
supper in the stone-flagged courtyard of
the house. The party was in aid of the
Dr. Barnardo’s Homes; Mrs. Rupert
Scammell, president of the ladies’
auxiliary of the homes, received the guests
with Mrs. McCaughey.
Hopton Lodge has a very lovely posi-
tion facing Pittwater across to Lion
Island, and its -rooms nearly all have this
beautiful view. One of the features of
. the house is the guest-block, which is
selfl-contained and has two double-
bedrooms. Another feature is the subtle
use of the color red, sometimes, seen in
the Chinese-red of the birds on the
English wallpaper, sometimes in the rich
coral carpet that runs along the ground-
floor gallery and up the stairs, and some-
times in the brick tones used 'in doors of
kitchen-cupboards. For a bayside home
this color seems especially gay and
appropriate.
* ☆ £r
On the following night, Amaroo, the
home of Mrs. M. A. Alldritt, and also at
Bayview, was the scene of an aquatic
display by Olympic star-swimmers
Lorraine Crapp, Murray Rose, Gary
Chapman, John Devitt, with champions
Barbara Jackson and 12-year-old Ross
Cornwell (who apparently is Australia’s
hope for the future). They demon-
strated the history of swimming in a
most amusing way, John Devitt particu-
larly showing a nice line of showmanship.
The gardens and the swimming-pool
were illuminated for this display, which
was I oilowed by a parade of swimsuits
and sports-clothes. ■ Special interest rested
on (he new “cover-up” suits with high
necks and long sleeves. One in wide
black-and-white stripes called “jailbreak”
really stole the fashion-show.
This party was in aid of the dumb
and blind children, and Mrs. Alldritt
was helped in the organising by a com-
mitteeheaded by Mrs. Sam Lands. Three
charming committee - members, Mrs
Chris Alexander, Mrs. Bill White and
Mrs. Ron Kerville, modelled the dresses
designed by Madame Theadore. Frank
Guthrie and Don McNiven were the
two very competent comperes, and the
350 people who attended all agreed that
the party was a most delightful one.
☆ ☆ \ ☆ .
Legacy’s annual luncheon, held on
Thursday at the Trocadero, was presided
over by Mr. E. R. Tink, president of
Sydney Legacy, with Major-General Sir
Jack Stevens as guest-speaker. Legacy
now has more than 31,000 widows and
fatherless children enrolled, and Mr.
Basil Orr, who is president of the War
Orphans’ Appeal Committee, asked for a
of the Certificate of
Adoption Plan. By this plan certificates
are offered to firms, groups of employees,
clubs, etc., in recognition of their under-
taking the financial adoption of one, two
or more children in Legacy ; £25 a year
provides for one child for that year. At
present £lsjooo a yealr is contributed by
this means, and Legacy needs to increase
this to £26,000. That the yearly expendi-
ture of Legacy is £150,000 is an indica-
tion of the vast scope of the wonderful
work this organisation does.
Jenifer Eddy is to be the Polly
Peachum whom Sydney will see when
Gay’s “The Beggar’s Opera” opens at the
Elizabethan Theatre on March 13.
Jenifer is a young Melbourne soprano
who appeared in the Elizabethan Theatre-
Trust's Mozart-opera season, playing
Papagena in “The Magic Elute" and
Despina in “Cosi Fan Tutti.” Playing
opposite her in “The Beggar’s Opera"
will be John Shaw as Captain Macheath.
Opening-night of the Independent
Theatre’s amusing “Tobias and the
Angel” was very well attended. At the
Independent, by the way, they make their
large green-room available for parties to
those who attend the shows. They don’t
make any charge except a small one for
cleaning, and supper and a dance after
the play should be very attractive to those
planning some special celebration.
Noticed at the opening this week, Mr.
and Mrs. Jan Sopoushek, whose party
included U.K. Trade Commissioner A. R.
Bruce and Mrs. Bruce, Consul-General
for Korea Dr. Hoon Kim and Mrs. Kim,
Dr. Isabel Garvice and Colonel Prentice.
☆ fr ☆
Lady Slim will open the garden-fete to
be held in the grounds of Admiralty
House, Kirribilli, on Saturday, March 9,
in aid of the N.S.W. College of Nursing.
As well as the usual attractions of a fete,
there is to be a display of prizewinning
budgerigars (a really novel note) and a
mannequin-parade of bridal-gowns.
Personalities of radio, television and
stage are to be present, and there will
be a musical programme by the N.S.W.
Police Pipe Band. Should be good fun,
and for a very good cause.
# # &
Four Australian musicians who have
distinguished themselves abroad will
return this year to take part in the
A.B C.’s concert-season. Two of them,
Maureen Jones and Brenton Langbein,
who are to arrive in May, have been per-
forming as a sonata-team in Europe and
playing with leading orchestras. Valda
Aveling, who since 1955 has been Pro-
fessor of Piano and Harpsichord at the
Trinity College of Music, London, is due
in ( June ; and Geoffrey Parsons, now one
of Europe’s leading accompanists, will
return in July with the English tenor
Richard Lewis.
MELBOURNE
Once again the Anne Collins (Sydney)
hat-collection has enchanted all who saw
it. Exotic in shape, yet softer and more
feminine, is the trend for hats this season.
Height appears the dominant feature;
it is used most effectively in the
Cossack hat, probably the result of the
visit of the Russian ballet to London.
Most women will find a flattering style
in the new trend.
The Checia toque is attractive and very
chic, with its flattering, undulating line
and crushed crown. Softly folded or
draped berets frame the face and give
width, and there are still turbans, .either
plain of draped.
Although there is the bulky, high line
of uncompromising severity in many of
the new hats, this is compensated for fiy
the color and richness of the new fabrics
used. The faskidn-conscious woman may
choose her hats from Cocolaine, a dull,
woollen texture woven through with
coarse fibres ; Poussen, a lovely, soft,
silken-downy fabric, closely woven and
not unlike plush ; Tulle Hiver, a mesh-
jersey, gossamer-light and transparent ;
, Jersey Chine, a mixture of wool-jersey
with a sifken finish ; or D’Hermitage, a
long soft-haired material woven on a
jersey-base and very like Angora. Then
there is Maribou-plush, elegant for day
and glamorous at night; the melusines,
soleils and velvets are still used for smart
millinery.
Fur has also come into the picture.
One model, marked to resemble mink,
is called Canadian Sdleil; another, of
long-haired fox, makes a miniature busby-
hat. Feathers come into their own for
glamor hats. Madame Vernier, of Lon-
don, made a black-velvet toque for the
Duchess of Kent, with feathers in the
new shade, vanilla, shading the brow.
Although color in the Anne Collins
hats is sombre and autumnal, there are
some in the strong, vibrant shades, among
them rose-red, aubergine, the color of the
egg-plant (a deep, rich Rembrandt-red).
Other favorites are blonde tobac, Green-
land 4a lovely new winter-white), honey-
beige, alabaster and feuille morte (a
green). Black still holds supremacy and
is followed in popularity by the many
shades of grey.
One of the enchanting hats is a fabu-
lous model by Jacques Fath. It looks
like.an enormous puffball and is made of
black-fox with a tailored bow of
peacock-blue and diamente ornament, set
square in\ front. - Just as enchanting is
Vernier’s Swanlake, a cocktail-hat in
white heron’s feathers, finished with a
jewelled bird’s head. Another Vernier
model is in draped jersey, combining
cherry, turquoise and olive. - It was made
for the Duchess of Kent, who, liked it so
much that she ordered two others in
different colors.
Lovely Sydney mannequin Judy
Barraclough wears this exotic cocktail-
hat. Suitably named Stardust, this hat
was shown in the Anne Collins collection
at Melbourne’s Hotel Australia.
Materials: white-velvet and feathers.
The feathers are those of the pheasant
and were bleached by Madame Vernier,
who claims that this is the first time this
has been done by any designer. Each
feather is tipped with crystal bugle-beacls.
Photo by Ray Leighton.
March 5 is the date for the Moomba
Ball at the St. Kifda Palais, with Mrs. Leo
Guest as president of the ladies’ com-
piittee ana Mrs. James Buchanan in
charge of decorations. The gay little face
and trumpet featured on the tickets are
the decorative motif for the ballroom
(they are also being used, on a l'arger
scale, for street decorations). An out-
door scene will surround the official
table, and contemporary wrought-iron
furniture, striped awnings and hundreds
of balloons in black, white and “hot”-
pink will add to the picture. Mrs. Noel
Dickson, Mrs. Keith Laycock and Mrs.
Leo Frankel will be among those helping
with the decorations. Ticket-secretaries
are Mrs. Paul Grage (BJ 4664), Mrs.
T. S. Carlyon (UY 1015) and Mrs. R. J.
Marriott (BY 1622).
☆ ☆ ☆
The fashion-show given at George’s by
Miss Minna didn’t display the finished
garment; the couturier had simply
made-up the toiles in unbleached calico
arid a few trimmings, and with each was a
sketch of frock, coat or evening-gown.
The new, softer sheath-outline was shown
with details placed above! the bust-line;
full skirts fell straight over the hips and
rippled into soft folds at the hem ; there
were front or side-front draping, short-
basqued, back-bloused jackets, and fine
pleats in several skirts. For day-frocks
Miss Minna showed bolts of soft, fine
woollens, plain and fine tweed-mixtures
and satin-surfaced woollens. For evening
there were heavy delustred-satins in
muted tones, braided and re-embroidered
laces,, and Chantilly-lace, satin-slirfaced
organzas with embroidered. dots, and a
lovely white French matt-jersey. Colors
included sable-pinks, black-storm blue,
wood-green, blue-violet, bois de\Rose,
roseberry-red, and pinks with undertones
of black.
☆ ☆ ☆
The International Epicureans organised
an Indonesian Night at the Nurses’
Memorial Hall in St. Kilda-road, presi-
dent Don Taylor and his wife receiving
the guests. Lieut.-Colonel Roekmito
'(lndonesian Military Attache), Mrs.
Roekmito and Rudolf Admiral (president
of the Indonesian Students’ Association),
assisted by some students, -prepared the
buffet-dinner. The Indonesian dishes
included semur (steak, soybean-sauce),
gado-gado (peanut-salad), nasi goreng
(fried-rice, Indonesian style) and atjar
(salad of gherkin, cucumber, shredded-
cabbage and carrots). Afterwards there
was Indonesian music and dancing.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Stell-Ricks collection of suits and
coats shown at Menzies’ were all Aus-
tralian-designed and Australian-made,
using fabrics from world-famous textile-
firms. Prominent in many smart creations
were the new capes, which use an un-
broken line from shoulder to hem. One
classic tweed cape in beige tonings had
slits at each side to allow arm-movement,
and was finished with a deep collar of
luxurious beaver-fur. A smooth beige
woollen material made a lovely coat;
beaver-fur was used for the collar and
front-edges down to the hem.
CANBERRA
Brisbane visitor Mrs. J. McGregor-
Lowndes, in Canberra for the
Australian swimming championships, was
guest-of-honor at a luncheon given at the
Hotel Civic by the Business and Pro-
fessional Women’s Club. An active 70-
years-young businesswoman, she is an
F.R.G.S., life-member of the National
Council of Women and, among other
things, a patroness of women’s sporting
organisations in Queensland. She figured
in an Olympic Year honors-list.
With federated clubs all over the world,
the Business and Professional Women's
Club held the annual International Night
at Industry House. Twenty-five candles,
each representing; a member-country,
were arranged on a dais ; in the centre
were three larger candles, one represent-
ing the U.S.A., where, in 1919, the Inter-
national Federation was founded;
another signifying the International
Federation itself, and a third for the
Future. Climax of the ceremony was the
solemn lighting of all the candles in the
darkened room, performed by the
countries’ representatives, mostly from the
diplomatic missions, and accompanied by
a narration prepared by the Federation’s
founder and dramatically spoken by Mrs.
Yetty Pearson.
The president, Mrs. R. L. Hawke, wore
a full-length classical gown in white crepe,
the bodice featuring a draped stole o f
black chiffon with two black roses at
the shoulder. She opened the ceremony
and later introduced the guest-speaker,
Professor P. H. Partridge, who spoke on
the theme chosen for B.P.W. Inter-
national Week —“Automatibn and the
Individual.” A vote of thanks was pro-
posed by Mrs. R. S. Stevenson, the only
woman member of the A.C.T. advisory
council.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
/ economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
Divorce Notice
TO EDWARD NOEL RINTEL address
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
VALMAI LEONORA DAPHNE RINTEL
has commenced proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia for divorce on the ground that you
have been separated from your wife for
a continuous period of not less than five
years immediately preceding the com-
mencement of this action and that there
is no reasonable likelihood of cohabita-
tion being resumed If you desire to
defend such proceedings you must file
your defence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth within fort.)
(40) clear days from the date of this
publication In default of your so doing
the cause may proceed and the Court
will pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence DATED
the 13th day of February 1957. —J. E.
SIIILLINGTON, Acting Registrar.
DWYER, DURACK & DUNPHY, of 33
Barrack Street, Perth, Western Australia,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
mn
KARTS
Circular Charts for all types
of Recording Instruments
.•or any class of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
ACCURACY GUARANTEED
JACWE&P& O'SIILLIVANf^tw.
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Fatih in the
Future
\
fc«
Among the pleasant memories the old year left
—and altogether it was a good year for Australia
—was the rise in export income in its closing
quarter.
That was due largely fo the great national
stand-by we have in wool, to rallying of the market
for our wheat, an increased export in iron and
steel, and expansion of the mineral industry.
Nearly all our exports brought higher earnings
for the year, compared with 1955.
This is heartening. The question now is, how
do we take it from there? And the larger part of
the answer,' I believe, is to be found in our
adaptability as a people.
Events are changing the market routes of the
world and influencing the courses of trade. We
have to be flexible; ready to adjust ourselves to
every new condition.
It is well within our capacity. The resources
of this country are great, and will be proved
greater.
One of the most eminent scientists working on
the mineral balancing of Australia’s soils —with
which is linked the improvement of pastures —has
told us that in the relatively well-watered areas of
two States alone, more than 260-million acres
await development; 190-million in Queensland*
76-million in New South Wales.
Consider what that means to the Future.
We are aware that Production must be raised,
exports increased, costs kept within bounds, markets
found in Asian and other countries. And reducing
this familiar truth to the practical, it means that
every acre of land in our good rainfall belts will
have to be used —to a maximum efficiency.
That is the thought I offer now, when the time
seems ripe for bold expansion • when a general
prosperity is here and the economy is stable ; when
modern techniques and labour-saving machinery
are available to make up for our limited manpower.
This year—next year—the next ten years—
could be decisive in ensuring Australia its place
in the world.
¥
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Odnoposoff
At Sydney Conservatorium on
Thursday and Saturday Ricardo
Odnoposoff made trails of violin
music like curves of velvety
lithographic crayon ; he is one
of the fine penmen, the exquisite
phrasemakers. His play in g
gained from the collaboration of
Raymond Lambert: in the
jittery opening of the Beethoven
G Minor sonata (Op. 3C, No. 3),
for instance, they throbbed with
the same headache. So gracious
in a Vivaldi sonata (Op. 2, No.
2), so casually-regal in the first
movement of the Beethoven, Mr.
Odnoposoff did not give the
Cesar Franck the warmth and
ecstasy of the dropping phrases
of its first movement, but
wrapped the lovely third move*-
ment (recitative - fantasie) in
noble Slav drama and tragedy,
as though it had been rescored
by Tschaikowsky.
The music of the second con-
cert was not so interesting ; the
early Beethoven sonata in D
Major (Op. 12, No. 1), which he
watched through spectacles, was
remarkable mainly for a fine
moment in the variations ; and
the flamboyant Wilh e 1 m j
arrangement of a Paganini con-
certo in D sounded as chaste as
if Irmgard Seefried had ventured
upon one of Betty Hutton’s
arias.
In such music Mr. Odnoposoff
is a victim of his taste, as in all
virtuoso-music the performer is
a victim of his brilliance: the
more perfect he is, the more it
seems that nothing amazing is
being done.
The unaccompanied Gemini-
ani sonata of the second concert
meant more to the listener, may-
be, than the unaccompanied
Ysaye sonata of the first; in
these; and the musically-
meretricious Waxman fantasia
on “Carmen” themes, and the
Wieniawski Polonaise and the
encores of tuneful Yankee set-
tings of South American and
West Indies themes —full of
double-stoppings, harmonics pip-
ing as serenely as canaries, huge
jumps of pitch, cross-bowings,
passing-notes picked up by the
bow as by a magnet, and all the
rest of the abracadabra the
listener is awkwardly aware that
much, much more wonderful
things are being done than that
showy left-hand pizzicato which
Throws notes away like drops of
water from a shaken hand . . .
if prices were adjusted to our
ability to appreciate technique,
most people, like critics, would
get in for free.
Artbursts
Drawings
If drawing is an art in itself,
not just a note for something
that may afterwards occur in
a painting, then Lloyd Rees’s
“Rocks Near Harbor,” solid and
glittering from his firm pencil,
is easily the most memorable
item in the N. S. Wales Society
of Artists’ exhibition of prints
and drawings at David Jones’,
Sydney.
But the freshness and liveli-
ness of the “note” has its own
charm and value; and, if it
hasn’t the solid quality of Lloyd
Rees, John Passmore’s
“Southerly,” with an invisible
wind blowing full tilt across the
white paper, is also a notable
achievement.
It is a big show; too big.
Whether finished or sketchy,
drawings need to be very good
to be worth exhibiting. But,
amongst a good deal ol:
mediocre stuff, there are
moments of considerable reward
in Arthur Murch’s “Repose,”
Carl Plate’s “Fall,” Cedric
Flower’s strangely gilded
“London,” Elaine Haxton’s
butterfly-boats from China,, J.
Carington Smith’s spacious pen-
and-wash portrait, the two draw-
ings by Len Annois, and
Margaret Preston’s clear bright
“Native Flowers.”
+:♦ * ❖
Blake Prize
By a pleasing coincidence
Mark Foy’s in Sydney has on
exhibition, concurrently with the
Blake Prize entries, a display of
“driftwood arrangements”:
gathered and arranged, pre-
sumably, by the beautiful brown
girl who walks amidst them.
Among all the twisty bits of
this and that is one large
knobbly bit of wood, vaguely
alarming in its convolutions and
(where art has assisted Nature)
surmounted by „a cross. It is
entitled “Golgotha” ; and really
there is no reason why it should
not have gone two floors up to
compete for the Blake Prize.
Many of the Blake entries,
on the other hand, do look
exactly as if the artist had
scratched about on canvas, as
on the beach, and found a piece
of art.
But that is always the case.
Religious painters, or entrants
for a religious competition, must
suffer more than any other
contemporaries from the feeling
that everything has been done
before. In religious painting, it
has. Everything, that is, except
“abstract expressionism” and the
like.
Wherefore an experimental,
symbolic kind of art is to be
expected in modern religious
painting; and the more so since
religion naturally lends itself to
symbolic treatment and abstract
or semi-abstract art is suitable
for the essentially decorative
function most religious art has:
the altar-piece and the stained-
glass window.
But, having approved the
principles on which most of these
painters are working, there
remains the problem of approv-
ing the paintings. Some are
effective in design; some are
bright in color ; a few do well
enough in the method of making
a head pop surprisingly out of
nowhere: in general there is a
lack of force and depth.
Elwyp Lynn’s prizewinner,
“Betrayal,” has a colorful
rooster, a touch of horror in the
sharp edges and the crucified
hand ; but. is shallow. Eric Smith
painted a pleasing prizewinner
last year, but the more abstract
he becomes, as in his second-
prizewinner this year, the more
his art seems merely to fall to
pieces. The outstanding paint-
ings are two more-or-less cubist
items by Lawrence M. Daws;
particularly, with its cadaverous
light 2nd its combinatiqn of
symbolism with emotion, “The
Entombment.”
♦i* *z*
Abstract Expressionism
Q.: What is this 'Abstract
Expressionism the Sydney
“Herald” is talking about?
A.: Its leaders, perhaps;
abstracted from the London
“Times” and expressed in Aus-
tralian journalese.
Q.: Don’t be tedious. The
term is used by the “Herald’s”
Art Critic. An abstract paint-
ing, I know, used to be a design
which did not represent any-
thing.
A.: And if I remember
rightly, Expressionism was the
distortion of objects to express
the painter’s feelings about them.
Add it up ; it’s simple: Abstract
Expressionism is the distortion
of a design which' does not
represent anything. It is the
Misrepresentation of the
Unrepresentative.
Q.: But how can you distort
something that doesn’t represent
anything?
A.: You have to be an
Abstract Expressionist to do
that.
Q.: But how can one tell that
something that doesn’t represent
anything has been distorted?
A.: You have to be the
“Herald’s” Art Critic to know
that. And now you must excuse
me. I have an appointment with
Mr. McCusker, of the New
South Wales Railways. I am
endeavoring to persuade him to
offer an annual prize to a rail-
way-painting. Here, I feel, is
the best ground upon which
Sydney Expressionists, Mel-
bourne Expressionists and Bris-
bane Expressionists can meet
and compete.
KOOLUMOFF.
Talkies
“The Mountain”
Where one used to lament that
films presented their characters,
emotions and situations in black-
and-white, these days, of course,
such qualities are in lushest
Technicolor, and no better for
that.
In this Sydney Prince Edward
offering, for instance, the retired-
mountain-climber (Spencer
Tracy) doesn’t assault the peak
again simply because an airliner
has crashed on top of it, but
because his young brother
(Richard. Wagner), a nasty piece
of goods, is determined to go up
and collect money and valuables
from the dead. The old chap
wants no part of the enterprise,
but has to go along out of
fraternal duty because the young
chap will certainly kill himself
if he goes alone.
There is good building-up of
suspense and contrast in the
opening scenes as airline officials
and their radio-equipped jeeps
bustle about a tranquil village
at the foot of the mountain
(some of the film was taken in
the French Alps), and later there
are some agonising moments at
the old climber claws his way
across sheer rocjc-faces thousands
of feet above the village; like-
wise, there is a strange reality
in the moment when the old
fellow pulls back a fur coat and
finds the only survivor—a
beautiful Indian girl, diamond
glittering in her nose, and curled
up like some frightened tropic
animal in the snow-covered
wreck of the aircraft.
On the whole, however, the
pjece is too richly colored for
conviction, and that includes the
scenery (one has never forgotten
the black-and-white reality of
the film of Hillary’s climb) as
well as Mr.'Tracy’s noble attempt
to whitewash his brother after
that young fellow has gone to
the end that obviously awaited
him.
“The Power and the Prize”
Big business and romance
mesh without any clashing of
gears in this Sydney St. James
offering about the executive vice-
president of a giant American
corporation (Rohert Taylor)
who stacks-up against the
president (Burl Ives) over the
question of business-morality in
a hard-driven deal with, a British
firm.
The strength of the film lies
mainly in the character-roles,
and here Burl Ives adds to his
rapidly* growing reputation with
a quietly forceful account of the
corrupting influence of total
power. His performance is
matched by that of Sir Cedric
Hardwicke, whose suave and
gentle manner covers the
sharpest of wits as the head of
the British firm.
Another neat and facile
character-drawing is provided by
Charles Coburn as a co-director
who pulls no vocal punches.
Elizabeth Mueller, a newcomer
from Europe, has whimsical
charm as the refugee concert-
pianist who beats the president’s
niece in the race to the altar.


The Dugong
By
JUDITH
WRIGHT
t HEN Ida gets married,”
\V/ old Jim had often
VV said, “I’m leaving. A
man’s a fool to stick
with his children too long; he’s
just a nuisance to. them when
he gets the pension and sits about
the house. When Ida’s married
she won’t see any more of me,
’less she conies and brings Eric
for a holiday.”
Ida and Shirley and Margie
didn’t believe him. “Where’d
you go to, Dad? You’d be that
lonely you’d soon be back, I
bet.”
But when Ida came back after
the honeymoon there was the
note on the table :
Gone to the Island. Look
after Eric good and remember
man’s stomach is key to man’s
heart. Love from Dad.
Jim had always been a bit odd,
and in his later days he had
grpwn odder yet, the neighbors
thought, collecting things—sea-
shells, ropes and compasses from
old broken-up ships, stones and
bits of queer-shaped wood. He
took them all with him. Ida
cleaned his room, mourning but
a bit relieved all the same. The
house was theirs now, hers and
Eric’s.
On the island, Jim was both
happy and frightened. He had
chosen for his own a patch of
bush far off the only road that
crossed the almost deserted
island; what belonged to
the Crown belonged to
nobody, he said. He cut down
the thin box-trees and banksias
that grew in the dark sand, and
with them made a framework
for a two-roomed floorless
cabin ;*he covered it with iron
from dumps and odd scraps of
timber left behind by the Army
when they had camped there
during the war, and made himself
rustic furniture with the pieces
of banksia and odd branches
that had been too crooked to
use for the cabin.
He was deep in the bush, just
as it had been when he was a
young man and took fencing-
contracts far out, those times
he had talked about ever since.
At first, lying at night in the
moving forest where stars and
possums travelled through the
branches, where wallabies
thumped suddenly in the dark,
causing his heart to shrink as
though it were clutched in too
tight a grip, he felt more fear
than joy at his boldness and at
the loneliness he had so long
looked forward to.
But soon he had identified the
noises of the forest, separated
the sounds of the night sea as
the tide rose and fell across the
stairway of rpcks at the point a
half-mile off, and begun to
interpret the movements of
stars and planers, half-
remembered from his few sea-
voyages in youth. He began to
.accept this new life and to move
in accordance with its rhythms,
fitting his meals and sleep in with
the tides und the weather.
He had his bit of garden in the
dark sandy soil, cabbages and
onions and geraniums and ferns
in beds edged with whitewashed
stones and beach-driftwood. He
grew staghorns and small string-
like unobtrusive orchids prised
from rocks and trees ; he fished
in the surf on the narrow beach,
standing for hours braced
against the rush of waves, and
on Saturdays he dressed in long
trousers instead of shorts, took
his battered fibre suitcase and a
sugarbag, and walked the three
miles of sandy track in to the
little island settlement to meet
the Saturday launch and collect
his groceries and bread and the
pension Ida drew for him in
town.
As he walked this track he
often found himself talking
aloud, in a kind of apprehension,
practising, as it were, for this
unusual contact with his fellow-
creatures. Ida would say he was
getting to be more of a crank
than ever, if she knew; and he
stopped himself sternly.
TDA and Eric had come over
now and then at weekends,
but it was a long trip in the
launch and back on Sunday
nights and after the baby came
he seldom saw them. Margie was
nursing in Sydney and never
wrote, and Shirley had three
children now and her husband
was playing the horses —some-
times she sent a postcard, but
they had never been very
friendly and Jim was beginning
to forget her.
He knew Ida didn’t like the
island, didn’t like the shanty so
buried in the bush that few
people knew it was there at all,
and the knowledge put a
defensive, self-justifying note
into his monologues when he
thought of it. But more often
he didn’t think of it. What went
on in his mind was nowadays
the noise of sea and leaves, the
knowledge of the tides and the
best spot for fishing, and an
obscure feeling that was a
mingling of the desire for
company and the need to be
alone.
This feeling was behind the
care he took over the making of
a house-name for the shanty, a
sign made of crooked banksia-
boughs, each letter a triumph of
ingenuity. He searched the bush
for months looking for boughs
of the right thickness and shape,
and when the sign was finished
and framed in driftwood, he took
it out to the road and nailed it to
a tree. LASTHARBOUR, it
said, with a
arrow pointing down the
secretive track off the road.
It brought him a few visitors,
now and then; curious bush-
walkers, holidayers from the
single guesthouse at the settle-
tnent, expecting a cafe with
tables and tea and disappointed
to find only the shanty and the
tall, loquacious old man in
neatly-mended shorts. But if
they were willing to listen arid
humor him for a while, he would
take them round his curios and
his garden, lead them out to
the point and explain the geology
of its rocks and tell them where
the fishing was best, and at what
times of day, give them tea in
cracked white cups on the
kitchen table now growing
greasy and dark with wood-stove
smoke.
Sometimes they sent him
bundles of papers and old copies
of American magazines before
they forgot him. He had quite a
library of magazines in the
corner, with the old Nautical
Almanac and the seedsman’s
catalogue for 1936 and the book
on geology and the old Postal
Guide.
One, coming back to the
island for a second holiday after
a year’s absence, brought him a
dog. Ida had told him on one of
those weekends that now
seemed long ago that he needed
a dog for company; but he
preferred the old grey cat that
for years now had killed mice
in the kitchen, cleaned-up the
fish-heads that otherwise Jim
would - have had to bury, and
kept his feet warm on winter
nights, sharing his narrow bunk.
Jim thanked his visitor, but he
was doubtful about the dog,
which had begun by putting
Tiddy up v a tree from which she
had to be brought down again.
He tied it with a rope to a
sapling till nightfall while he
went fishing, and when he came
home it had scratched up a bed
of cabbage-seedlings imprudently
near the tree, and had half-
strangled itself with the rope by
dragging at it, so that its eyes
started out of its head and it
wheezed miserably. Jim untied
it and looked at it without
pleasure ; it had an ugly, stupid
head and a thin, whiplike tail.
It would want to come with him
to the beach when he went fish-
ing ; like as not it would steal
things from the kitchen; he
would have to carry meat twice
a week instead of once from the
settlement and that would make
a difference to the pension.
“Tiddy’s got more sense thaii
you,” he said to the dog. “I
don’t want you round.”
Yet it was something—alive,
forlorn, uncared-for. He let it
stay, half-liking, half-disliking
its dependence on him, its anxiety
when he tied it up and went
away to {he beach, its grateful-
ness for scraps.
It was a tie; it asked too
much, demanding attention;
demanding food; and the
devotion it was ready to give in
return was something he did not
want, shook off. He felt the bond
as somehow unclean, not like
the relationships of the wild
things to each other the
wallabies that mated, brought up
their young and then forgot
them, the birds and lizards .that
sought their own food /and
defended their own lives. He and
his dead wife had had their
children; they were grown, and
were forgetting him, and that was
as it should be. He didn’t answer
the dog when it fawned and
asked for petting; and he was
not particularly sorry when,
later, it picked-up a scrub-tick
and died of it.
TTIS favorite days were the
working-days when from
Monday to Friday he had the
whole length of beach, bare,
empty even of footprints, on his
own. On Saturdays and Sundays
he never knew when fishermen
or holiday-makers might come
strolling along, looking with
curious eyes at his patched
shorts, the grey hairs on his
chest that was now burned
almost black with sunlight, his'
straggling hair that he cut him-
self, with scissors, now and'
then.
V On these days he stayed home,
wore his shirt, half-expected
visitors and was relieved and
disappointed when they didn’t
come ; but on Mondays he would
set out early and with secret joy
for his empty beach, as though
he had won a victory and driven
the intruders away. The fish he
caught and cooked that night
were always especially good to
his taste; he threw Tiddy the
bones and fish-heads and rubbed
her ear as she crouched beside
him.
“We’ll do, Tiddy. We don’t
need much but our wits and a
good line and hook. We don’t
depend on them, eh?”
It pleased him when the week-
ends were spoiled for holiday-
makers by rain and wind ; not
from any special malice, but
rather from a feeling that visitors
to the beach were trespassing on
something they didn’t understand
or care for as he did. What did
they know of the tides, the banks
and rocks, the sounds of the sea
at nights, the places where fresh
water soaked through the sand
and the wallabies and possums
drank? His feeling for this
stretch of coastline was not one
of ownership, but of unity, as
though he had grown there as
the creatures did and understood
each day and night the seasons
only in their impact on one piece
of bush and beach.
Accordingly he was not dis-
pleased when a cyclone blew up
one weekend and kept the
Saturday and Sunday launches
from running. <By Monday
evening it had blown out to sea,
and the sky was clear ; he could
hear the .crash of waves on the
rock-stair at the point, and the
long following blur of sound as
the water raced back to the sea.
There would be a big swell for
days. Next morning he would
go down —low tide was soon
after daybreak—and see what
the waves had brought up to the
beach. He still collected shells;
there was nothing he liked better
than to wander with con-
centrated gaze along the curves
of high-tide litter on the beach,
after heavy weather. He wanted
a pearly nautilus, a complete
shell; the one he had was broken
and imperfect.
Day came with the hazeless
clarity of after-cyclone weather,
and the sun was ready to rise as
he set off to the beach, bare-
footed and carrying an empty
flour-bag, to look for treasure.
The growl of waves grew louder
as he came to the point and
stepped from the tangle of trees
that crouched below the crest of
the hill from the sea-weather.
'THERE was a strange black
* bulk on the beach near the
rocks, so large that he would
have thought it only another
rock, if he hadn’t known there
was no rock there. The suck
of receding waves had left it
lying in a little pool, where the
sand had been dragged away
from its sides by the run of
water, and the pool was a strange
pink. He shaded his eyes to
look at it, for the sun had come
over the horizon and the water
glared white in his eyes beyond
the line of breakers.
He started cautiously down
the great smoothed stairway of
rocks to look at it, for it was
not far from low-tide mark and
the waves still washed up over
the- rocks that crunched under
his feet with tiny purple barnacles
and were slippery with weed. The
thing seemed to move as he drew
jiear, but it was only the drag
of a wave on one black flipper
that hung inert in the pink pool.
“Dugong,” thought Jim, as he
stood on the rock above it and
stared down. He had never seen
one before, in spite of the sea-
voyages, but he had heard of
them. “A siren,” he added to
himself, to emphasise his know-
ledge.
The creature raised its head
sluggishly; there was blood on
one side, under the tight
rounded skull. lips
moved, as though it were eating.
“Or praying,” Jim said. He
stood undecided.
The creature let its head fall
again on the sand ; its flipper
moved helplessly, defencelessly,
as the sea played with it.
Jim couldn’t think what to
do ; he sat down on the rock, his
hands round his knees; and
watched the animal. He was
moved, but he had not yet


Chateau Tanunda “Historical Firsts” No *
§|§||
m
w\
n
A
m
m
sP»
P*
s**
Fw-si Central Police Court, Sydney
The First Police Force
The preservation of order in Australia’s
early days was entirely a military matter.
Only by a long process of development did
an independent police force coxie into being.
The first hints of a separate police force
actually appeared in August, 1789, when Governor
Phillip appointed a night-watch from the best-
behaved convicts. This grew into what came to
be known as a “constabulary,” with members
stationed at Sydney, Parramatta, Toongabbie and
the Hawkesbury. But in 1796 Governor Hunter
substituted a system whereby, Sydney was divided
into areas whose inhabitants were required to
choose three “decent and respectable” fellow-
residents 'as watchmen. This system apparently
worked fairly well for a few years.
On June Y, 1801, it is recorded that Governor
King ordered a weekly inspection of the “police”
at George's River and of Sydney's watchmen.
The police were still under military control, being
supervised by John Harris, Surgeon of the New
South Wales Corps and police magistrate at Sydney.
King reported that Harris was performing all his
duties “to the evident public, benefit and con-
spicuous general good of His Majesty’s service
without neglecting an hour’s duty as a surgeon of
the Corps.” But, by aiding King in efforts to
suppress trading in liquor, Harris earned a good
deal of unpopularity. He was discharged from
his post as police chief in 1802, restored to it in
1804, dismissed by Bligh in 1807, and again re-
stored in 1809.
After Lachlan Macquarie became Governor in
1810, he used patrols of his own regiment to
maintain order in the streets at night for a year.
Then, on January 1, 1811, he introduced a system
of semi-civilian constables under a superintendant
(D’Arcy Wentworth was the first), who was given
power “to punish all prisoners, freemen, rogues
and vagabonds.” Sydney was divided into five
districts, with seven constables allotted to each.
The superintendant was required to keep a list of
all householders in each district as well as a “black
book” recording all offenders and their offences.
At night, members of the patrols called the time
every half-hour and obliged householders to close
their houses at what officialdom regarded as "a
reasonable hour.” This system revived the
principle of the curfew.
With the penetration of the Blue Mountains
(in 1813) and the spread of settlers westward as
well as along the coastline, githe preservation of
order in outlying areas became increasingly im-
portant. This led to the creation of a body of
mounted police for service in country districts.
The original tasks of these troopers were to pro-
tect settlers against bushrangers and to regulate
dealings between convicts and aborigines. With
the discovery of gold (in 1851) they were in-
creasingly called on to protect gold consignments
in transit. In some districts they were converted
into “gold escorts.” ' Even with this widening of
their duties they remained subject to military law
and wore a semi-military uniform. Indeed, not
until well into the 1870’s did the mounted police
becom,e fully civil.
In the meantime, the nature and role of ufban
police had been changed considerably—notably by
an Act of 1833 “for regulating the police in the
Town and Port of Sydney.” In 1842, when
Sydney was incorporated as a city, it was required
to contribute to the Government half of the cost
of the upkeep of the police.
In 1856, the uniforms worn by the police were :
ordinary police, black coat, white trouser, bell-
topper hat; mounted police, “a becoming military
uniform similar in every respectVto that of the
13th Light Dragoons." Police on gold escort
duty wore a similar uniform, but this was described
by Superintendant John McLerie as “most un-
suitable.”
Notwithstanding the vast growth of population
and the many economic changes that had taken
place, it was not until the passing of the Police
Regulations Act of 1862 that the establishment of
a true police force in N.S.W. was initiated.
To-day, N.S.W. has more than 4,760 police,
including 30 mounted troopers. In addition,
there are 36 women police and seven trackers.
One of the units in this Force is unique in the
world—this is the Cliff Rescue Squad, which was
formed in 1942.
First in Quality—First in Favour
A Product of the
House of Seppelt
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED*
N.S.W. Agents : 335 Kent St., Sydney
Distributors of fine spirits for 119 years
* Copies of each of the series printed on Art Paper, available free on application from Tucker & Co. Pty. Limited
■" " 11 '' ,l, “' 1 "TV ■ \ ' HF33
decided whether his feeling was
of pity or merely astonishment.
“They’re rare here. Very rare
nowadays,” he said to himself,
testing out his feeling cautiously.
“Nearly all killed out. A half-
grown one, by the look of it.”
At last he slipped down the
rock, holding a loose stone in
one hand as a precaution, and
approached the dugong. It moved
a little, but vaguely, as though
stunned; and at last he was
beside it. It smelled of the sea,
a cold, salt breath. He touched
it—hairy, harsh and thick, yet
strangely warm. Of course: the
thing was not a fish, he
remembered, it was warm-
blooded like himself. A siren.
“If it was good enough for
Ulysses,” he said to himself,
“it’s good enough for me,” and
bent to see how deep its wounds
might be.
There was a deep cut on one
side of its curious face, and
blood ran down sluggishly and
dripped into the pool. One
flipper was bent beneath it and
twisted. Jim looked at it care-
fully. He would have to lift the
dugong to straighten that flipper
out.
TTP at high-tide mark he saw a
long board or spar lying
where the waves had left it. He
brought it down and slipped it
under the dugong’s bristly pig-
like side. It was then he saw,
with a strange feeling, that the
creature had opened its eyes and
was watching him.
He moved back with a start,
holding its glance with his; but
it seemed to him that there was
nothing to fear in that look. It
came from something lost in
pain and resignation, something
•past struggling. Yet the creature
tried to move, to release that
bent flipper that looked so
uncomfortable, so that Jim drew
in his breath quickly in sym-
pathy, feeling his own arm bent
and hurting as that.
He raised the dugong with his
board, carefully, talking to it as
he levered the big weight up-
wards. “Now try to move it,
boy. See if you can get it out.”
But the flipper didn’t move,
even when the dugong - was
levered clear of the sand. Clearly
something was broken. Inch by
inch Jim worked his hands down
the levering board, and carefully
touched the flipper, watching all
the time in case that blunt stupid
head swung round at him. He
manoeuvred it gently, so that it
lay naturally on the sand, then
reached for a few loose stones
and slipped them in to support
the dugong’s body. He slipped
the lever out. The creature sank
back, and as it sank it made a
small cry, a grunt half of pain
and half of relief.
At that Jim’s heart moved a
little. He had helped it,
evidently ; the sound might have
been addressed to him, the kind
of noise a sick child might make,
half-confiding and half-protest-
ing, as its mother moved it on
the pillow. The sound made a
bond between them, a kind of
gesture towards language.
But the waves running up and
back were moving the flipper
from side to side. It must be
splinted. Jim went back to the
hut, eagerly, swinging up over
the rocks as he had not felt the
need to do for years. He found
a stick or two for splints, and an
old elastic bandage he had had
once for a sprained ankle and
kept by him.
Tiddy was bewildered and
indignant that he didn’t wait for
breakfast; she even followed
him halfway back to the point,
mewing like an injured wife.
Down on the beach again, he
set to work on the flipper, and
the dugong, still dazed perhaps,
struggled once or twice but then
lay quiet. He moved the flipper
carefully, found what seemed to
be a break near the body, and
tied it as well as he could with
the splints. Then he stood up
and thought what he should do
next.
The creature must not go back
to the sea until he could take
off the bandage, perhaps in a
week, perhaps in a fortnight.
Already' the tide was turning-;
soon it would be high enough to
float the big body. He must
wait here until the waves were
strong, enough to lift and carry
it, then guide it up the beach to
the deep cleft in the rocks where
water stayed in a pool after the
high tide. That was near high-
water mark ; the waves would
not wash it out.
It ate seaweed, he thought; he
might be able to gather enough
on the rocks to keep it alive,
or it might eat bread and
cabbage-leaves if he brought
them. At any rate, he was
determined now on its survival.
He gathered what weed he could
on the rocks, hoping it was ’of
the right kind, then sat down to
wait for the rising tide. He had
quite forgotten his breakfast.
Hour v by hour he dragged and
pushed as the bigger waves came
in, sat and waited, dragged again.
The creature did nothing either
to help or hinder, it only looked
at him sometimes with that
patient inhuman eye accustomed
to the fields of seaweed and the
undersea reefs, and sometimes
made that small protest: He
answered it, patting its taut
stupid head, encouraging it with
words.
AT last he had it safe in ,the
narrow pool through which
the high-tide waves swished
shallowly, and had propped jt
there with small stones and laid
the flipper out easily. Now he
rolled up a rock or two, and
made a shade over it with criss-
crossed driftwood and branches
of sea-holly. He set down the
bundle of weed near its head,
and suddenly felt tired and
hungry. The hot sun of after-
noon blazed down as he made
his way back to the hut, threw
Tiddy a half-can of beef and
ate the rest on thick chunks of
bread.
Next day he chose a few green
things from his garden-beds, took
some stale bread and went to the
beach after breakfast, with hr
fishing-line.' The dugong lay
still in the pool; it hadn’t moved,
but it was able to lift its .head
and chest a little from the watei
and look at him. It twitched its
lips at the bread and the beet-
leaves and the cabbage, but ate
nothing.
Jim was not discouraged.
“Feverish,” he said to it
reassuringly. “Bound to be,
after a bashing. You’ll feel
better in a day or two. Just take
a bit when you feel that way.”
He fished off the rocks that
day; it somehow gave him
pleasure to know that the
creature was there. High-tide
waves spilled into the pool and
refilled it, cooling the water ; Jim
had become anxious about the
heat.
-Next day it seemed stronger;
it moved quite sharply when he
came near, and made a menacing
noise, hut didn't object wflen he
bent down with the day’s leaves
and bread. Some of yesterday’s
food had gone, he saw ; crab
maybe, but perhaps it had eater
a little. Later in the morning
when he came back from fishim
to look at it, it had a beet-leaf
in its mouth. He was so pleased
that he laughed out loud.
“You’ll do, mate ; you’ll do.’
AND next day it had actually
moved, dragged itself
in the narrow pool so that it
faced the sea. He looked at the
splint anxiously, but it had held.
“Wanted to look out for your
friends, eh? I ought to have
known you wanted a sight of
the sea. Now you just stay still
a few days more and we'll have
you right.”
But suppose it dragged itself
down to the sea on the next
high-tide, before the splint was
off? It would be helpless, not
able to swim yet; it would be
beaten on the rocks again, most
likely. He dragged up more
and more boulders, made a
barrier to keep it there, cutting
off its view of the sea remorse-
fully.
“It’s all for your own good,
mate. Can’t have you checking
out before the doc.’s given you
your pass. Now keep quiet.
Here’s your breakfast.”
Next day was Saturday. He
must go to meet the launch and
get his bread and meat and
groceries. He spent the Friday
afternoon camouflaging the
dugong’s shelter, for the week-
end was dangerous to it. Boats
sometimes crossed the bay on
Friday nights and early Satur-
days with picnic parties and
campers arid amateur fishermen;
children and their parents came
to the guesthouse ; idle and aim-
less youngsters wandered along
the beaches. He must go, but he
would be back as soon as he
could.
He told the dugong so, explain-
ing it all. “Ycfri better lie low,
see? They’d take you to a zoo
or something as soon as look
at you, and then what’s yodr
life worth? You stay still till F
get back and then I can keep an
eye on you, see?”
But the dugong was getting
stronger. Its head-wound was
healing; it moved about
occasionally in the pool, and was
eating a little more. Jim was
dubious about leaving it. But
there was no bread left and
nothing to eat for the weekend,
and the fishing had not been
good. Tiddy was complaining.
He left early, but the walk
was long and it was noon when
he came back. He dropped the
suitcase and the sugarbag on the
table and went straight down to
the point, for he felt disquieted
as though there were something
wrong.
THE driftwood and branches
had been dragged down ; he
saw that as soon as he reached
the crest of the hill. Then he
saw the young men, two of them.
They stood on the rocks above
the pool with big stones in their
hands, taking aim deliberately.
Jim ran down the rocks ; he had
his stick in his hand. One young
man had already thrown his
stone, but the other turned and
lo'bked.
“You let that damn’ sea-cow
alone,” Jim screamed. “You
hear me? I’ll have the hide off
the both of you.”
“Aw,, you will, eh? It’s yours,
eh?” But the second young
man had dropped his stone.
“It ain’t mine, nor it ain’t
yours either. I can have the law
on you. You ever heard of the
protection-laws? I’m the ranger
on this island?”
Jim was lying, but the young
men would not know it.
“Now I want your names and
addresses. Both of youse.”
The young men were bluffed ;
they ducked under the stone stair
and started to run. Jim screamed
after them, “No use running. I
got your descriptions ; I can find
out who youse are. Damned
lousy couple of cowardly lairs.”
But the young men were gone.
JIM went down into the shelter.
The dugong lay still ; it had
stbpped bleeding. Stones were
scattered thickly round it. They
must have been half the morning
over it.
He dragged it to the water’s
edge again, with painful diffi-
culty. It was half-tide; out
beyond the end of the stone stair
was the steep rock-edge where the
deep water began suddenly, and
where the dugong must have had
its first injuries in the grip of
wind and water. He dragged it
further in, further yet, bracing
himself as the big waves dragged
{Continued on page 26)


LOW's
Autobiography
As seen by Low in London.
In one of his brightly described, almost daily meetings
with the top world figures in their particular line —
especially in politics, literature, art —David Low has
enjoyed talking “shop” with famous London “Punch®
cartoonist Bernard Partridge. Now he meets Max Beers-
bohm . , . Walt Disney . . . exchanges smells with, a
leading Japanese political caricaturist, and with Gandhi.
Low’s modelled effigy adorns Madame Tussaud’s "VYax-
works . . . And so to Russia.
16
o Continued) ■
'wpsailF Partridge was the most repre-
Ej ? sentational of draughtsmen, Max
§ | Beerbohm was the least.
I g It was in the twilight of a soft
I % summer evening, dining on a roof
Esses!l in Lincoln’s Inn, that I first made
the acquaintance of Max. Ellis Roberts
the literary critic arranged it for us three
and our wives.
The chiaroscuro is just right. First
act. Curtain. Dinner-table set against
of the quiet trees dim-lit by?,
last rays of the sun, with thin new moon
thrown in as a decoration. /
Enter our hero, immaculate in evening-
dress with topper and carnation, drawling
a bon mot. But no! Our hero is already
there, but so quiet of presence that at first
he escapes the eye. A sad face, a small
middle-aged figure of fine-pointed
extremities and sharp perception.
I recognised immediately the occupa-
tional characteristic of the caricaturist.
The slight detachment produced by
habitually trying to do two things at
once —concentrate on the particular while
expanding to the general.
The scene was set for Wit. But I don’t
remember that anyone said a memorable
thing all night. I had feared he might
be like his public legend—dandified,
exquisite, ultra-fastidious and scintillating
with dreary Edwardian wisecracks. But
no, we began almost immediately to talk
about how to draw a brick wall over the
way,
MANY years had rolled since as a
very little boy I had come across
a funny picture of Oom Paul Kruger
signed microscopically “Max.”
It was so simply drawn as to seem
to have something in common with my
own artless attempts. Since that distant
day I had learned that there are more
ways than one of rendering individual
character. Max never could draw in the
accepted sense of expressing himself in
polished classical draughtsmanship, and
therefore his quality of innocent discovery
emerged in terms of childlike freshness.
In my opinion, although a “free”
technique like Max’s permitted to an
unlimited degree the artistic “catch-as-
catch-can” involved in all-round repre-
sentation, the results'could not have the
depth of solid caricatural drawing based
on reality of form. Max was too modest
to do more than register doubt on the
point.
“It must be awful to be a slave to
skill,” said he, shuddering delicately.
Like Phil May, who labored so success-
fully to eliminate the appearance of effort
that hundreds of imitators jumped to
the disastrous conclusion that the way
to make drawings was to “dash them
off,” Max so avoided aeademic form that
his imitators came to believe that all
that was needed to become a caricaturist
was not to be a.ble to draw. Their
mistake.
Max had the disadvantages, as well
as the advantages, of his qualities. His
wit was sometimes so cultured in deriva-
tion and so local' in application as to
make his caricatures almost private.. And
his collections sofnetimes had the air of
having been designed for a small exclusive
clientele. Caricatures of gentlemen, for
gentlemen, by a gentleman. When Satire
walked hand in hand with “Society,” as
it used to do when Max held his exhibi-
tions, the danger of the patronage was
that one was encouraged to be not only
a gentleman (which, of course, every
caricaturist should be) but also a “gentle-
man” (which, of course, no caricaturist
should be). Looking at me sadly, Max
agreed that this was a Peril.
This first meeting ended. An unassum-
ing man, free from envy and malice.
LONG before I met Walt Disney over
H. G. Wells’s lunch-table in the early
’thirties I had been an admiring fan of
Max Beerbohm’s version of “Mr. H. G. Wells, prophet and idealist, conjuring up
the darling Future .”
(Run to earth in Jim Tyrrell’s bookshop in Sydney, this appeared originally as one of the
48 large plates in “A Book of Caricatures,” by Max Beerbohm very finely turned out by
Methuen, London, in 1907. In this present instalment Low describes meeting Beerbohm and
then Walt Disney, mentioning having met Disney with H. G. Wells.)
his. He turned out to be a modest young
man in a loud check suit.
To my disappointment he shied off art
talk, except to tell me that many of his
film-cartoon creations were built up from
sound first. Donald Duck, for instance,
arose from the discovery that one of his
office staff could imitate a duck. The
hen prima donna suggested itself when
he found a singer who coulcl sing like a
hen clucking.
Disney found an interest in London
listening to the orators at Marble Arch —
astonishing to a visitor from America,
where all “dangerous radicals” are put in
jail. Politically he seemed rather naive
—thought pensions sapped initiative and
enterprise.
After “Fantasia” and “Bambi” I grew
enthusiastic to the point of expressing my
opinion in print and on the radio that
he, as the outstanding representative of
his kind, might prove to be the most
significant figure in graphic art since
Leonardo da Vinci. (Loud sneers from
the numskulls who couldn’t see beyond
Mickey Mouse, and who wouldn’t put
aside the music and. the noise, forget
“film-cartoons” and consider just moving
drawings.)
The burden of my lay was this:
The man Leonardo was an adventurous
mind—fond of wheels —an engineer. As
an artist he was an innovator constantly
experimentihg, one of the first to go after
painting round instead of flat, so that he
produced an effect —new in his time—
of the figures, standing out from the
background.
Leonardo added to the capacity of
expression, extended the power to give
depth of atmosphere. His philosophy
was that will was the energy of life. He
was all for energy. Muscular movement
and the dynamics of anatomy were
favorite studies of his. The sketches for
his famous equestrian bronze of Fran-
cesco Sforza show that he worked out
that horse in a whole range of move-
ment —galloping, rearing up and still. Just
like the drafts for what we call a “film
cartoon.”
Although Leonardo omitted to invent
the cinema for himself, and therefore had
not its possibilities to play with, he was
more than a bit of a cartoonist in our
modern sense. Ordinary shapes bored
him. He was no caricaturist, but he
liked strange blobs, angles and burlesque
outlines, and often drew allegorical
sketches, moral and social satires and
fables.
AS to the other one, Disney. Tfie first
moving drawings made for screen
projection by Emile Cohl in 1908 were
elementary. They moved. That was as
much as you could say. - There followed
a procession, mostly of Americans, up to
“Felix the Cat.”
With Sullivan, in 1924, it was evident
that the collective fertility in original
tricks of draughtsmanship and novel
mechanical devices had enabled the
whole art-form to be advanced a couple
of miles or so. The movement, improv-
ing slowly, had up till then been confined
to the simplest actions from the easiest
angles, in profile mostly, tiresome in
repetition. Sullivan’s animation was not
yet subtle, but it was “all-round.” His
figures moved —sometimes a bit painfully
—from all angles, and they had the
beginnings of perspective and individual
character.
Then along comes Disney.
Pat Sullivan and his predecessors were,
so to speak, penny-comic. Disney
organised the experts and with specialised
animators, better draughtsmen, color and
multiplication of the number of draw-
ings per foot soon pushed the art first to
tuppenny-comic, and then to threepenny.
Then, by gosh! he made it sixpenny—
no, shilling! His feature-films, “Snow-
White,”. “Pinocchio,” “Fantasia” and
“Bambi” (I leave out “Dumbo,” which
was a sixpenny holiday) were each an
advance upon the last in artistry and
extension of range. They revealed a
growing understanding of the meaning of
observed movement and therefore greatly
increased powers of creating imagined
movement. If one compared the play
of human expression in the face of
Snow-White with that in .the faces of
the Centaurettes in “Fantasia” one could
mark the striking improvement. Subtlety
was now possible.
MOW there was the point. It was
perfectly clear donkey’s years ago
that graphic-art, hit by the mechanical
age, needed a new idea. Heaven knows,
it hadn’t had one since feomebody 2000
years ago thought of painting pictures
to frame and hang on the wall as a
change from carpets and tapestries. The
improving quality of facsimile reproduc-
tion probably meant sooner or later a
consequent reassertion of real values in
art as opposed to rarity ahd other
Artificial commercial values. The paint-
ing of pictures to hang on walls
threatened tp become an increasingly


precarious profession except for
the few best artists. Admire the
new “schools” and “movements”
as much as you liked or as much
as they deserved, their merits were
irrelevant here. All the cubes,
abstracts and surrealists’ iron-
mongery hadn’t really saved the
situation.
It was perfectly clear also that
as the machinery for representing
movement improved some intelli-
gent lad would drop to it that the
new idea was here —that the means
were present for opening a new
and exciting vista of possibility
in graphic Art (with a capital A).
In our time your conventional
artist who wished to represent the
beauty and character of say a
woman or a landscape looked for
the emotiopal elements -of shape,
and color in the subject, and,
following principles of selection
and emphasis, put them down in
clarified form. But the woman
moved with charm, the trees bent
in the breeze. There were
emotional elements in the move-
ments to be discovered, selected,
emphasised and. represented in
heightened form also. Why not?
What would Leonardo have
been up to if he were alive in
1935? I asked. He would have
been in his back-room inventing
simplifications of animating-
processes and projection-devices.
TiT was 1-0 years or so before I saw
Disney again, this time visiting London
with his brother. Roy. We (Walt, Roy,
some interested cinema chaps and I), sat
in plush chairs complete with drinks and
cigars discussing production and distri-
bution like executive industrialists.
The finance of -cartoons was not
so good as I had imagined. They were
hired out at only a small rent and it
always took 18 months before he got his
money back on one —before he “made a
nickel.” He employed 200 artists, and
up till then Had never had a strike.
Sad to relate, when the opportunity
offered Walt and I hadn’t much to say
to one another. The subject of politics
was obviously out. Walt complained
that some interfering people accused him
of moving towards “social awareness,”
and he denied it vigorously. It was pretty
plain Walt didn’t want to talk about Art,
either. “Fantasia” had not been box-
office. I gathered it was thought to be
bad for his business to have it said he
was an arty fancy-pants with any ideas
beyond fairytale level. Out with all Jhe
long-hair stuff.
“Don’t you like to draw?” I asked,
looking at his long, thickish*fingers.
Walt looked puzzled.
“He doesn’t draw. He just thinks up
ideas and compositions. He hasn’t had
a pen in his hand for six months,” said
Roy. “He isn’t an artist. He’s a
visualiser.”
It was my turn to look puzzled.
“Does big outlines, and the boys do
the rest.”
There seemed no more to say on that
point, so we changed the subject. These
were the businessmen of art. When one
talked of “Disney” one talked of a
factory. That the factory was the most
significant thing in graphic-art since
Leonardo da Vinci I still had no shadow
of doubt. All it needed now was its
Leonardo. I looked closely at Disney.
A friendly man, not putting on airs, not
trying to be funny all the time. A massive
enough achievement for two or three life-
times. But how the devil could a man
resist having a crack at the big pot when
he had such a glorious chance?
IT IFE was not all politics/ social
struggle and newspaper deadlines.
Amid the hectic preliminaries for the
fateful nineteen-thirties I enjoyed meet-
ing artists who in my earlier days had
been to me only shining names. Great
was the delight of talking “shop” with
Bruce Bairnsfather, Edmund Dulac and
even of smiling and smiling and smiling
Louis Raemakers (since I could not speak
Dutch).
When the Japanese delegates came
over for the Naval Conference, Ippei
Okamoto, the most celebrated political
caricaturist in Tokyo, came with them.
I was delighted when Ippei, accompanied
by two dead-pan Japanese diplomats,
called on me with scrupulous politeness.
Ippei was a happy chap, speaking a
little English. We drew one another,
each of us thinking he had done a good
job and the other a pretty bad one. I
cultivated Ippei’s society, wishing to get
the Japanese viewpoint. I was telling
THE LEVELLING TENDENCY OF MODERN LIFE
(As exposed by the flashlight camera)
(Including this David Low cartoon in his book “The Good-Tempered Pencil” (recently published
by Max Reinhardt, London), famous British author-artist “Fougasse” refers to his fellow-author-
artist as “David Low, whose fame as a political cartoonist may unjustly overshadow his fame as a
remarkably fine and vigorous and individual draughtsman—how seldom all three meet.")
him and his friends what their political
ideas should be when I noticed him look-
ing at me, inhaling at a queer angle.
“What’s the matter?” I asked. “Do I
smell?”
* “Yes,” he said.
“Badly?”
“Not badly. Like cold mutton. All
English people smell like cold mutton.”-
“Well, is that so? That’s strange.
You smell to me like clear soup, sharp
and appetising, I assure you.”
I took good lungful. We discussed
racial smells at some length. One of the
attendant protectors took a shorthand
note.
Ippei was quietly humorous in his
Japanese way, and we tdok to one
another at once. When I got him alone
for a few minutes I had to ask him the
first-prize question as one cartoonist to
another.
“What happens when you want to
make a caricature of the Emperor?”
He made ho reply, but drew the edge
of his hand across his throat, making
a noise like a saw.
TT REMEMBERED this when I met
Boris Efimov, the political cartoonist
of Moscow “Izvestia,” who shared with
Deni of “Pravda” the highest popularity
in Russian caricature. He got 6000
roubles a month, in contrast to the paltry
1500 or so received by Stalin.
“What are the conditions of your
employment?” I asked him.
“I do .what I like,” said Efimov.
“Do you ever criticise the regime?”
“It is unthinkable,” said Efimov
gravely.
Perhaps his style was a little cramped
by the fact that our interpreting was
being done by the Soviet Chief Censor.
9
17
WHEN my contract with the
“Evening Standard” came up for
renewal I did what was expected
of me in my assumed character of tough
businessman and found myself sailing
towards the five-figure-iricome bracket
without any particular hankering on my
part
By this time I had extraordinary means
of estimating the growth of public
interest, goodwill and popular celebrity.
My mail was absurdly large. We were
surfeited with invitations.
At Christmas the postman had arrived
at my house . loaded with gifts from
people I hardly knew or didn’t know at
all —two cases of champagne, five boxes
of cigars, hams, a side of mutton, even
articles of clothing.
I had been in the moving-pictures and
on the radio. I had had at least two
impersonators, one of whom was wanted
by the police.
One evening Madeline and I were sit-
ting with some friends at the theatre
watching a musical-play when the
Duncan Sisters howled my name across
the footlights, plugged me with gags and
held up the show until I rose bathed in
limelight, and bowed to the audience tq
terrific applause.
o Continued on next page)
Even more remarkable evidence of
übiquitousness was that a letter arrived
safely to me addressed simply “Low” —
nothing more. This, surely, amounted to
fame. I reflected on the tale of the man
whose ambition was to become important
enough to have a tablet bearing his name
put on his birthplace after his death.
He died, and his ghost returned to see.
From a distance —yes —thebe it was!
The tablet! Coming closer he read It:
“To Let.” .
ABOVE all, I was in the waxworks.
I spent two interesting mornings
with old John Tussaud learning how to
make a waxwork. When I got to his
studio the model (he hated to have his
models called “waxworks”) was well
under way, he having built it up from my
photograph.
It made" me vaguely uneasy; but,
then, waxworks always have done that to
me from a child. Their sinister stillness
and their unresponsive eyes scare my
subconscious.
I told the old man that in the Exhibi-
tion as it was before the fire I had had to
make a drawing of the Chamber Of
Horrors, and, overcoming my repulsion,
had spent three hours of a winter’s day
virtually alone in that horrible place. To
get my best angle of view I had had to
lean between Burke and Hare. That
night I.did not sleep a wink. Personally
I think it was the emanations from the
authentic clothes worn. by the models
that undid me.
There was no denying that getting into
the waxworks denoted a measure of
fame, however transient.
As I left after my sitting I met a friend
of mine, a film-producer. He told me he
was at work on a picture that required a
wax effigy, and had come to Tussaud’s
to collect a cast-off.
“Who did they give you?” I asked.
“Keir Hardie,” he answered.
Sic transit . \ .
♦
AS my social circle broadened at home,
it lengthened abroad, which was
unexpected. A rash of articles about the
revival of caricature in Britain broke out
in the foreign press, literally from China
to Peru, accompanied from time to time
by reprints of my cdrtoons as evidence.
It was an unprecedented honor for me
when the “New York Times” and other
American newspapers spread over five
columns of their leader-pages some of my
pacifying cartoons about Anglo-
American relations. That was a kicking
and yelling subject even in those days,
and, as one grown up in Dominion
conditions s which were in eflect a com-
promise between the ways of life of both
countries, I felt it to be my special
province.
When I drew a cartoon including the
Ku Klux Klan, the Sacco-Vanzetti case,
and other less wholesome features of
American life, it was a novelty to find
an editor in Texas retorting tartly that,
anyway, American children, unlike
British children, had shirts to their backs.
He had evidently heard of our “dis-
tressed areas.”
MICKEY MOUSE SEEKS PROTECTION
(In this London “Evening Standard” cartoon Low turned Disney’s famous little character into Dollfuss, of Austria, at the time
—February, 1934 —shrinking away from Hitler and inclining towards Mussolini’s Italy.)


IT was an even greater honor a few
weeks later to be offered a contract by
one of the .largest newspaper-chains in
the United States. I typed out the free-
dom clause in my Beaverbrook agree-
ment and sent it to the management ask-
ing if they would agree to it.
“We would not wish anyone to join
our newspapers who thought he would
not be happy with us,” replied the editor,
evasively.
“I should be perfectly happy. The
question is, would you?” I answered,
keeping to the point. There was no reply.
Beaverbrooks don’t grow on trees.
[The “freedom clause” referred to
allowed Low to express his own .views,
irrespective of whether or not they agreed
TICKLING THEM THROUGH THE CRACKS
(On this cartoon of his in London “Evening Standard,” March 15, 1928, Low has stated: “Litvinov,
for Russia, suggested that the way to produce disarmament was for everybody to disarm. This was
felt to be a joke in very bad taste at France’s expense.” In heavy armor are Briand, of France,
Austen Chamberlain and Mussolini.)
with the policy of the Beaverbrook paper,
London “Evening Standard.”]
AMONG these American exchanges
occurred an important event which
had a considerable effect on my future.
To the New York “American” in 1928
was wirelessed one of my cartoons across
the Atlantic. The cartoon itself was hot
much —something about an abortive
Franco-British Naval Pact —but it was
the first newspaper-cartoon to be sent
overseas by radio,
Technically the result was appalling,
but I was struck by the wonderful possi-
bilities of the new transmission. Would
it ever be feasible to sit in London draw-
ing cartoons for circulation over a world
network? I put the idea away on ice
for later consideration.
On the whole my reception in America,
even when I was critical, was friendly. I
had a little trouble with the French press
about a cartoon in which I characterised
the behavior of Laval and Briand as
resembling, politically speaking, that of
gangsters. I had amiable comment and
fairly regular reprintings in Germany,
Scandinavia and Central lEurope. A few
cartoons filtered through to the Italian
press, but the choice was too obviously
designed to fit the wrong policy to be
pleasing.
affairs of India came into my
cartoons a lot in the late nineteen-
twenties and early ’thirties. The person-
alities engaged tempted attention on their
picturesqueness alone, and Churchill
supplied enough vehement opposition to
the idea of Indian self-government to
invite pertinent comment.
To the harsh Wranglings which brought
the break between Baldwin and Churchill
I contributed a string of cartoons which
directly and indirectly, by ridiculing their
diehard opponents, supported Baldwin
and Hoare and their Government on
India Bill. ’ ’
As a result I came in for some of the
anger flying about. Churchill wrote me
off (in his book Thoughts and
Adventures, 1932) as a “green-eyed
young Antipodean radical .... particu-
larly mischievous .... Low’s pencil is
not only not servile. It is essentially
mutinous. You cannot bridle the wild
ass of the desert, still less prohibit its
natural hee-haw.”
According to him I delighted to “gibe
at the British Empire” and was “all for
letreat in India”~which was pretty rich,
since by birth, growth and viewpoint I
was considerably more representative of
the Empire than he was, and probably
more advanced, too, so far as India and
the [British] Commonwealth were con-
cerned.
TOURING the Indian , Conference of
1931 Mahatma Gandhi came to
town. I found him at the House of
Commons explaining his views to an all-
party meeting of M.P.s.
Gandhi was evidently a yqluble talker,
difficult to get him to subside when
answering questions. His son, a round-
faced youth, and Miss Slade stood on one
side modestly, speechless.
He received me with loud laughter, as
though I were a very funny friend of the
family. He was waving the evening-
paper about yvith a cartoon of mine on
the meeting of Gandhi and Windhi (my
name-play for Winston). Mouth a wide
gap with three teeth on each side lower-
jaw.
On this encouragement I invited myself
around to his abode to see him more
privately.
At the Knightsbridge flat, conducted
into presence by Gandhi junior. Found
Gandhi squatting on floor near fire,
spinning-wheel on right, little brown
head with short grey hair peeping elfishly
out of copious home-spun blanket —
large hands and feet—skin warm and
pleasant to touch —all very welcoming.
He was the richest piece hf character
I had' seen for many a long day. He
was surrounded by Indian friends sitting
on chairs in a semicircle.
“Shall we draw apart?” says he.
We did.
9
MY attitude was that of the artist, not
the news-hawk. I was not out after
political secrets, but to get the flavor of
the human-being. I foresaw, however,
that he would expect me to ask him
questions, so I had designed some the
night before, woolly enough to get him
going without demanding too much reply
from me or distracting my attention
from my own particular kind of observa-
tion. All the same I found his talk so
much a part of himself that I had to make
some notes.
I opened: “I have come to observe
your shadow, not to ask questions” (that
was a good one!), “but I should like to
hear from your own lips whether the
national spirit you are fostering in India
is likely to draw your people closer to
the Western peoples or to separate the
two even mpre.”
That covered a lot of ground and
started him off nicely. I knew the
answers, which were that two peoples
cannot draw together, but rather other-
wise, while one is subject to the other ;
and that his “national spirit” aimed at
putting a free India in such a condition
that she * could draw as close to the
Western peoples as was good for her and
vice versa, etc., etc.
From there we passed to desirable
forms of association between India and
Britain, tossing “provincial autonomy,”
“self-government,” “central responsi-
bility,” “limited Dominion status,”
“gradual Dominion status” and “Com-
monwealth fiscal union” about like
garments at a bargain-counter.
Gandhi saw too many Churchills
about; he feared straitjackets, and he
wanted no British cut of government for
India.
He particularly objected to the words
“Imperial” and “Empire” as having a
“conquering” significance. To keep the
pot boiling, and with an eye-and-a-half
on the picturesque, I suggested that he
might solve that problem by accepting
the commission of Governor-General
himself. The mental picture of a
cocked-hat crowning his native home-
liness was irresistible.
TT HAD heard most of this before, but it
sounded fresh coming from the
Mahatma himself, eye to eye, his face
close to mine, breathing a perfume of
goat’s-milk over me as he talked
animatedly:
A future India mostly agricultural,
returned to village communities and
peasant crafts in the old Indian tradi-
tion, by comparison, sounded natural
and Wholesome. Industrialisation, by
comparison, sounded
perverse and miserable.
Highly industrialised
peoples—like the United
States, for instance —
were purely marching to
disaster. The British
working-people, even
before they were touched
by their future problems,
did not live as well as the
workers in South Africa,
etc., etc.
We got around to the
subject of clothes.
“I myself habitually
make use of many
Western ways,” said
Gandhi, looking any-
thing but Western. “But
habits and customs
depend on locality. I
myself wear a simple
loincloth in India. Here
I have to wear all this
stuff. A Look at your
clothes. No good for
India. Homes for moths.
Those curtains. Dust-
collectors. Draw closer,
you say. Why don’t you
wear a loincloth? Chairs
are not an improvement
upon sitting on the
floor. Why doesn’t everyone sit on the
floor? There is much in Western culture
that is good for India —but vice versa.
By the, interchange of ideas and the
absorption of what is good by both, will
they draw together in hearts.”
fifiTT ET us turn from petty politics to the
L=d wider subject of living,” I said.
“Tell me how to live.”
Exposing three of his teeth in a happy
chuckle, Gandhi gave me his blueprint:
“Have no possessions and want none.
No trivial ambitions to win admiration,
wealth or power. Do what you do
because you think it right, seeking
nothing else, not even the personal gratifi-
cation that would accompany the achieve-
ment of your purpose. In simplicity,
directness and strength, such a man could
never be defeated.”
Unanswerable. I had asked for it and
I had got it. I unlocked myself from
the squatting posture and turned to go.
“Do you want also to interview, my
go-o-oat, Mr. Lo-o-o-ow?” twinkled Mr.
G., as he resumed his place at the fire,
lean legs falling into their* impossible
position with a cjick.
MOW from the distant years I reflect
on the successful exponent of passive
resistance, with his genius for exploiting
a situation.
Would he have succeeded in other
circumstances? With other people than
the British? Maybe not.
The British had had a sturdy band of
moralists keeping the exploiters up to the
responsibilities and aims of Empire long
before Gandhi appeared. The people had
grown a conscience about India by the
nineteen-thirties. Moreover, the old
Imperialism was wearing out, an4' change
had to come about.
Gandhi happened to be in the right
place at the right time, like many other
great men, when the necessities con-
verged and the opportunity offered. No
derogation of his greatness in that. On
the contrary. One has to have what it
takes. Gandhi was patently a good man,
and endearing, with a penetrating quality
of happy benevolence. It would have
been easy to pursue perfection in his
company.
Nehru, whom I met a little later,
impressed me strongly, too, but in a
different way. An Indian Cripps, blend
of idealism and practicality, far more
political talent than Gandhi, but less
inner sunshine.
ITT wasn’t long before I was attending
diplomatic functions and inside the
Embassies.
Naturally I was most readily received
by the representatives of countries who
found in my_ cartoons some hint of
sympathy to the policies being followed
by their Governments. My opposition to
Fascism barred Italy. I had been con-
stantly advocating resumption of trade
with the U.S.S.R., believing in the good
old principle of keeping people from
fighting by making Them mutually
profitable. That made me persona grata
to the Russians, when, through my
amiable colleague Bruce Lockhart, I met
a few of them in 1931.
In the early ’thirties the U.S.S.R. was
still the experiment, not yet the highly-
polished centre of art empire. Its repre-
sentatives were eager and wore chips on
their ishoulders. Members of an
Embassy were not where they were for
fun, bufcto work for their countries, and
I was never fool enough to forget it.
But over and above that, their merits as
human-beings could be appreciated.
I had met Krassin when he had come
over in 1920 to negotiate the first trade-
treaty, but only for a word ; and after
him several lesser officials. With only
one could I ever talk politics, and then
inconclusively, as a sceptic might discuss
Genesis with a fundamentalist.
That particular chap turned up ten
years later in Berlin as one of the elastic
boys who fixed-up the preliminaries of
the Soviet-Nazi Treaty with Ribbentrop.
was a procession of charming
fellows .passing through the Soviet
Embassy in those days. Ambassador
Sokolnikov, who always looked like
Banquoski’s ghost, had a sort of sad
humor. His account of the exile’s return
journey from Siberia was rich.
According to him —and he had had the
experience—in pre-revolutionary days the
blundering incompetence of the Tsarisi
police was such that there was a regular
return-traffic with fixed routes, code
signposts, aid-stations and all, and
prisoners were no sooner billeted in their
huts up north than they were preparing
to escape back again to the south as soon
as the snow permitted.
By Sokolnikov’s account, one walked
into some chap in Moscow who should
by rights have been in Siberia, and one
just said: “Hello, Joe! Back again?”
The unexpected, told with such
authenticity and verisimilitude, made me
laugh so much that I spilt my Russian
champagne into the Ambassador’s lap.
That Was a memorable party. Most of
the company were recalled to Russia
during the purge, and I never saw them
again.
Sokolnikov was sent to Siberia.
WHEN Litvinov came to town for a
few days he impressed, me as a like-
able snuffling old chap with a good sense
of humor who enjoyed nothing so much
IN The Bulletin of June 26, 1913, there was
a David Low cartoon of a Bench of four
judges, rather irreverently, and it would seem
inaccurately, labelled abruptly “Sly, Murray,
Street and Gordon, of the N.S.W. Supreme
Court”; nothing else. A repeat of the draw-
ing, similarly labelled, was included in B.
6/21’57 as one of the typical examples of Low’s
work being used to illustrate this serial publica-
tion of his Autobiography, bringing a Letter
to the Editor from Mr. R. Clive Teece, directing
attention to what he describes as “a serious
mistake” and pointing out that, though Murray
was in the first decade of this century a judge
of the District Court, he was never a judge,
or even an acting judge, of the Supreme Court.
Mr. Teece suggests that the particular caricature
may have been of Justice Bring, which has
meanwhile been confirmed by word from a
Sydney judge' that the Low original, with the
second member thus identified, today adorns
the chambers of a brother-judge. A search
through subsequent Bulletins of 1913 has fallen
to discover any correction then; so now,, a
little belatedly—43 years 7 months and 27 days
late to be precise—what learned members oi
the Bench have sometimes been known to term,
in private, a bit of a blue, is hereby corrected,
Murray is scrubbed, and up goes Pring.
possible explanation Might be that Low once
padded the hoof from Melbourne to bydm
(arriving broke—so the legend says—through
having unwittingly worn out a couple of flvvj
that he had planted in his boots for safety),
and perhaps on the way the Big River made
such an impression on him that he elevated *
by name to that Bench as symbolical of, say,
the court’s dignity, or beauty, or whatever els
1 he- Murray’s lengthy cowse may be thought w
symbolise.


as putting his opponents on toast with hn
unexpected turn of argument.
It was pleasant to see his big face per-
spiring and his big stomach shaking with
Russian mirth. The company had been
talking about a surprising production of
gold in Russia 1 during the year.
“Wfiat does a self-contained Socialist
economy want gold for? What are you
going to do with it?” asks innocent Low.
“Make public lavatories out of it,” says
Litvinov.
*
■\\ft/HEN Litvinov rose at the League of
v Nations to proclaim the great truth
that the way to bring disarmament was
for everybody to disarm there was a
twinge of affection mixed in with the
general exasperation of his fellow-dele-
gates.
At that time Anglo-Soviet relations
were on the upgrade again and . the
Russians were encouraging visitors to
the U.S.S.R. The suggestion came up
that I should be the Soviet Government’9
guest on a round-tour.
I couldn’t see myself going alone, so I
attached myself to a party of writers
which was just leaving. Many of them
I already knew —Kinglsey Martin,
Hamilton Fyfe, Francis Yeats-Brown,
Robert Fraser and others. I hurriedly
packed toilet-equipment and rushed for
the boat to the New Civilisation.
I need not have hurried. Russians, I
discovered, always take their time. After
interminable farewells to well-wishers
and a couple of tiresome stops in mid-
Baltic while the engineer did something
mysterious to the engines, we arrived.
18
HN those days of 1932 conditions in
Soviet Russia were somewhat less
rigid than they became later. The
story told in London was that the people
were miserable, that the plans for recon-
struction were a failure, but that visitors
to Russia saw only what Stalin wished
them to see.
I wasn’t surprised to find none of this
was entirely true. It always aggravates me
to know why people have to spoil a good
case by childish and irrelevant misrepre-
sentation.
The case of a good Western democrat
against Communism (or, to be precise,
the Russian practice of Communism) is
that it makes liberty the price of
efficiency. For material ends, it demands
the curtailment of freedom of opinion
and expression, regiments thought and
thereby limits the growth of the soul.
Is that not enough to move a man?
No, not for some people, apparently.
They have to be moved by instances of
bestiality,- of less importance compara-
tively, and more easily inspiring the
needless exaggeration and invention
which defeat their own object in the long
run.
LIKE any Government with its guests,
our hosts wanted to show us the
creditable things rather than the dis-
creditable, but we had no difficulty in
seeing what we wanted to see —when we
knew what* we wanted to see and could
get around the language difficulty.
That didn’t worry me, because what I
was interested in was the Russians and
how they liked living in order.
Particularly the young ones. Oddly
enough, the typical Russian was young.
Leningrad, Moscow, Nizhni, Kharkov,
Kiev were full of boys arid girls of
eighteen or so. (Where were the old?)
Millions and millions of shortish,
square people. The typical Russian was
clean-shaven. Some fellows shaved their
heads even, and went about with naked
polls, outraging beauty with their like-
ness to worn billiard-balls. Wide simple
faces. I felt sure that if I shouted
“Freedom of the Mind!” nobody would
know what I was talking about.
The new generation was not sinister-
looking and, in defiance of all the known
facts about the food situation, didn’t
seem to be starving. Whatever the dead
ones had thought, the Jive ones seemed
cheerful, running about to their various
jobs and stopping on street-corners to
pass the time of day, just like you or me.
It was hot, mind you, undervest-and-
pants weather, and therefore short-
comings in clothing and boots were not
specially noticeable.
THAT was the proletariat, of course.
Where was the peasant? Every-
body knew that the Five-Year Plan was
being built, so to speak,-on the stomach
of the peasant. If you wanted to meet
the peasant you had to go to a railway-
station, where you literally stumbled over,
him lying about in heaps, surrounded by
all his chattels, waiting for the train to
take him somewhere else.
One of the results of the revolution
was that it had roused in the peasant
a desire to travel.. On the .Volga boat
as I looked down from the upper deck on
the sprawling mass of travelling peasants
sleeping or chewing sunflower-seeds
below I observed that they did not look
happy. But then, they did not look
unhappy either. They just looked blank.
“What can you do with one-hundred-
and-forty millions of. those?” said a
fellow-passenger. “Give ’em the vote?”
I, a lifelong believer in democracy,
maintained a dignified silence. (Question
for private reflection: By how much and
for how long might it be tolerable to
impose order and restrict the individual
liberty of a backward people to enable it
to catch up?)
All visitors to Russia had, of course,
to absorb what they called “cultural
background,” which meant a gay whirl of
museums, public monuments, and parks,
The parks of culture and rest were sooth-
ing. A troop of naked sunburned kids
romped under the trees, and the prole-
tariat spent its “sixth day” sleeping,
boating, bathing and playing games on
the beach.
|A I inspected the interior of one of the
rest-houses, once the gilded mansion of a
golosh-king. Under the large portrait of
the former mistress, a dainty beauty, lay
a worker in an .iron bedstead reading a
novel. Subject for a drawing.
17 MIXED with the holiday crowd at
Peterhof, and I disliked intensely the
loudspeaker attached to the front gate
delivering lectures.
I was reprimanded for mishandling the
Tsar’s photograph-album at D'etskoe
Seloe. These public properties are well
looked after. I visited Lenin’s apartment
at Smolny and, in a moment of rebellion
against museums, outraged the attendant
by sitting down on Lenin’s sacred wire-
mattress. I was rudely prevented by a
soldier frorry sketching in the precincts
of the Kremlin.
I “did” an Anti-God Box, a hut filled
with propaganda against religion. It was
more anti-clerical than anti-God —and
dull. There were many churches left,
so I went to one of them, too. Fairly
full, much better “produced” than the
Anti-God Box. The Bolsheviks didn't
stop you, they just said you shouldn’t.
But, then, they said you shouldn’t get
drunk, either, and I saw drunks.
This religion question was very interest-
ing. The first time I saw a Lenin
Corner, with a big black bust of Lenin
looking out of a nook of red draperies,
flanked by two aspidistras, and illumi-
nated by red lights, I was taken aback.
'But after seeing more, and after treading
solemnly in the daily procession to the
mausoleum in Kremlin Square —(Take
your hats off! No horse-play here!) to
inspect the embalmed Lenin himself, I
understood. Simple hearts yearned for
a personal symbol.
{To be continued next week)
BRUIN AND THE BRINK
(Low’s August 9, 1917, Bulletin cartoon on the beginnings of the Russian Revolution.)


«a*s?
We
ou^^ersj
oiwgau
Sj
111 !,
ROLLS
RAZOR/
m \
BLAOC
SAfff*
™ HONED
'AND STROPPED
IN ITS CASE
Even a Rolls can be improvedl Post-war research has
developed a sensational new Rolls SUPER Blade with
an even keener cutting edge for smoother, more
luxurious shaves and still longer shaving life.
Honed and 'stropped in its case, the new-process,
hollow-ground Sheffield steel- blade gives you years of
comfortable shaving from the one blade— ; -saves you
pounds on blades. Gives you a close, “open blade”
shave with the speed and ease of a safety razor. At
leading stores, chemists, tobacconists. Price, £5/7/6.
Now . . . better than ever!
ROLLS RAZOR
TUB WORLD'S FINEST SHAVING INSTRUMENT
ROLLS RAZOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA Pty. Ltd.
Wholesale Distributors:
E, H. MAAS & SONS PTY. LTD., 8a Castlereagh St., Sydney
ROUS OWNERS! Special Offer!
Bring your “old faithful” right up to date. Send us
your Rolls Razor and let us fit a new SUPER blade—
pfice, 25/6. At the same time, we will check over
your razor and grind and re-set your old blade FREE
OF CHARGE. Address as above.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
at the great inert bulk of the
creature and forced it landwards.
Deeper, deeper still.
He caught the moment
between two waves, thrust it out
with all his strength and saw it
sink slowly down. The next
wave caught him off balance ;
he fell and floundered for a
moment, then struggled out,
panting with a deep-drawn
groan like that of a winded man
who tries to get his breath again.
He sat for a while on the rock
above the water, with his head
in his hands, panting and
groaning.
At last he pulled himself to
his feet and walked back to the
hut, his back bent and his lips
pulled tight and mask-like across
his face. Tiddy had pulled the
newspaper from the meat with
her claws, and was feasting on
the kitchen table ; she looked up
snarling, ready to run.
But Jim didn’t notice her; he
lay on the bunk so quietly that
soon she began to eat again,
cautiously and with many glances
towards him.
The extra loaves of bread
spilled from the mouth of the
bulging sugarbag.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Top Australian and New
Zealand sprinters will run in
the 60th Caulfield Futurity
Stakes (seven furlongs) next
Saturday. This £4OOO stake, with
a £250 Gold Cup, has been won
by the best horses in the land —
the list includes Phar Lap,
Mollison, Comedy King,
Amounis, Ammon Ra, Euryth-
mic, Ajax, High Castej Bern-
/borough.
Ajax won the Futurity
Stakes in three successive years,
1938-39-40. He shares the course-
record and race-record time,
I. He ran that in 1940 ; seven
years later it was equalled by
Attley.
King’s Fair, easy winner at
Rosehill a couple of weeks back,
should be hard to beat in the
Futurity. Matrice may be the
chief danger.
Adelina, on a fast track at
Caulfield on Saturday, ran
Australian-record time, 1.3 9/10,
for the sjr furlongs of the Oak-
leigh Plate, clipping a fraction
of a second from Birdwood’s 1.4,
made in the 1954 Oakleigh/
Adelina should be in the line-up
for the V.R.C. Newmarket on
March 9. 1
Redcraze is back on his
pedestal as the best stayer in
Australia. He proved too solid
for Sailor’s Guide in Caulfield’s
w.-f.-a. St. George Stakes, and
he shapes like making short
■work of the opposition in the
long w.-f.-a. events of the
autumn round, in both Mel-
bourne and Sydney. *The next
clash between Redcraze -and
Sailor’s Guide may be in the
mile-and-a-half Queen Elizabeth
Stakes at Flemington on March
11.
Various Australian States
among them have just now prob-
ably the best crop of two-year-
olds racing for some years, and
the pick qf them are likely to
clash in the S.T.C.’s £lO,OOO
Golden Slipper Stakes at Rose-
hill on April 6. Adelaide’s best
filly, Cherete, proved that her
brilliant home-city form was
top-class when she easily
downed hot favorite New Light,
one of Sydney’s best fillies, in
Caulfield’s Teppo Stakes on
Saturday. Bird Note was a close
third. Time for the five furlongs,
58 9/10sec., was a Caulfield
record. The winner carried 9st.,
conceding 21b. to New Light.
Chqrete has had seven starts
for five wins, a second and a
third. In one Adelaide event
she scored with 9.4, so she’s
pretty good. Bird Note won two
races in Tasmania. Cherete is
a daughter of Moondust and
Cherish, who traces back to
Trenton, a noted stayer. Cherish
is by Shgkuni from Chapvari by
Comedy King (imp.).
Prince Jambo has Bst. in the
Newmarket, and should the
track be on the holding side he
might be sent to Melbourne. He
has won his last two races, both
at the Newmarket distance —the
second of them by half-a-dozen
lengths at Rosehill last Saturday.
Fil Allotta trains the Jambo five-
year-old entire for his wife. Com-
missionaire, a warm favorite for
the Rosehill sprint, ran much
below form.
Fire Dust, Doncaster Handi-
cap winner of 1955, hadn’t set
tracks on fire since that success,
and he has had different
trainers ; and also a change in
ownership. A few weeks back
he was bought, for 1000gns., and
is now raced by his trainer, J.
Denham, in partnership with
' Miss H. New ; he won the Welter
Handicap at Rosehill for them
on Saturday. As first-money
for the Welter was £BBB and he
was heavily supported, Fire
Dust probably is on the credit
side already. All the same, he
appeared lucky to defeat Top
Ruler.
It’s not often these days that
anything saddled-up by leading
trainer T. J. Smith scores at long
odds, as did the French-bred
mare Mivida in the Auburn
Stakes at Rosehill. She won a
race in England in October, 1955,
but hadn’t been successful in
Australia; she had shaped only
moderately a t her prior
appearance at Canterbury Park.
G. Moore rode her at Canter-
bury, but stable-apprentice F.
Leman was given the Rosehill
mount. Leman bounced her out
in front at the start of the
Auburn 7 Stakes, and she lasted
just long enough to beat the
better-fancied Mashlega.
My Peter, who outclassed
opponents in the Two-year-old
"He's got the reach."
Maiden for colts and geldings,
at the Rosehill midweek meeting,
is bred for speed. He won his
first rate with six lengths to
spare and was being eased-up at
the finish. The colt was ridden
, by W. Cook and is trained at
Randwick by his brother, Reg.
By Port Vista (imp.), My Peter is
first foal of Flying Three, by Con-
fessor (imp.) from Flying Figure
by Heroic.
Another Port Vista (imp.) two-
year-old colt, Cornelius, raced
by grazier and breeder E. E.
Swinson, bagged the Rosehill
Maiden for colts and geldings on
Saturday. It was Cornelius’s
first start in public. Cornelian,
dam of the jet-black colt, was
bred in 1945 by Swinson, and
was got by Beaupartir from The
Hussy by Bfazen (imp.) from
Lady Rosewood by The Wooden
Horse (imp.). Cornelius is
trained at Randwick by Jack
Green and had galloped so freely
that he was backed to
favoritism, and he was never in
danger of defeat.
+ +
One or two highlights of the
1957 Australian swimm in g
championships, at Canberra
(which were “boycotted” by a
few of the Olympic stars):
Murray Garretty, formerly of
N.S.W., now of S.A., bagged five
titles (220yds., 440yds, 880yds.
and 1650yds. freestyle, and the
440yds. medley; he won the
two 440yds. races within lOmin.
of one another). N.S.W.
swimmers dominated the show.
Others from the State were Brian
Wilkinson, who won the 110yds.
butterfly in Australian-record
time and the 220yds. butterfly
(he was awarded the honor of
being the swimmer at the
carnival closest to world-class);
Terry Gathercole, the 110yds.
breaststroke and Australian-
record time in the 220yds. breast-
stroke ; John Devitt, the 110yds.
freestyle in his only swim (it was
his first national title); and John
Monckton, who won two back-
stroke titles. Victorian Mick
Hunt, who took-out the 110yds.
junior breaststroke, was the first
Victorian to win a men’s national
title since 1952.
• • • •
Among the girls 14-year-old
Sandra Morgan, of N.S.W., won
three senior freestyle events,
though still eligible to swim in
the junior titles. Maureen Giles
(N.S.W.) finished half a lap
ahead to. win the 880yds., while
two other N.S.W. lasses, Beverley
Bainbridge (medley and butter-
fly) and Barbara Jackson (back-
stroke), won a brace of titles
apiece, and, with Sandra Morgan
and Barbara Evans, helped to
set .an Australian record in win-
ning the 440yds. medley for
N.S.W.
H= * *
Last Wednesday, at Box Hill
(Vic.) in the rain, Herb Elliott
ran the fastest mile ever run by
a junior (4min. 4.4 sec.) —I.6sec.
faster than his previous ‘world-
record. In the same run he also
broke Ron Clarke’s 1500-metre
world junior record of 3min.
49.65ec. by I.Bsec. On Saturday,
in a three-mile event in which
he ran second to Geoff Warren,
Elliott broke Clarke’s Australian
junior records for the three-
miles and the 3000-metres. He
now holds every National junior
distance-record. But his future
times won’t count as “junior”
records —he reached the age-
limit, 19, on Monday.
* * *
The Australian cricketers
began their tour of N.Z. with
an enterprising win over Canter-
bury ; and they disposed of
Otago in short order. A feature
of their first two games (against
Canterbury and Southland) was
the number of no-balls called
against the fast-men, Westralian
Ron Gaunt in particular— ■„
reminiscent of the “calling” of
Australia’s Ernie McCormick at
the start of the 1938 tour of
England. In Gaunt’s case it
doesn’t seem to have put him off
at all—he got 6-23, including the
hat-trick, against Soiithlartd. A
three-day “Test” against N.Z.
begins at Christchurch on
Friday.
At the end of the fourth Test
of the series, England led S.outh
Africa 2-1, with the third Test
drawn. It has been generally a
low-scoring (and slow-scoring)
series. England, which won the
toss in the first three games,
easily won the first two Tests —
bundling-out South Africa for
72 in the second innings both
times. Now S’Africa may tie
the series ; but, even so, England
has retained the “Ashes.” Hero
of the fourth Test was off-
spinner Hugh Tayfield, who
took 9-113 in England’s second
innings and had 13 Wickets for
the match. (Tayfield took 13
wickets against Australia in the
second 1952-53 Test in Mel-
bourne —6-84 and 7-81 ; another
feat of his against Australia was
7-23 in the third 1949-50 Test
at Durban.) On the subject of
off-spin, Tayfield’s opposite-
number in* the English team and
“scourge” of Australia last year,
Jim Laker, has done nothing
startling at all in this present
series.
• * * •
The last Sheffield Shield match
of 1956-57 begins on Friday in
Perth —Victoria v. W.A. It has
no bearing on the destination of
the Shield, already won by
N.S.W. The previous two Shield
games finished on Jan. 30, over
a month before this last one is
to start. Why?
, V I
Selected for Victoria (in place
oi Alan Dick, who has retired),
,22-year-old leg-spinner Lew
Germaine had, when chosen,
taken only seven wickets in
penhant-cricket this year.' At the
same time his opportunities with
South Melbourne have been
limited—-South also includes lan
Johnson and left-arm bowler lan
Quick, also to make his Shield
debut against W.A.; South won
its last game outright, but
Germaine didn’t get a bowl. For
Victoria’s 2nd XI against N.S.W.
in January he was belted around
(3-121), but so were Quick and
Vic.’s other bowlers that day,
N.S.W. scoring 9-505. However,
in Melbourne he’s reckoned to
have a future in big cricket.
* * . *
Australia’s treble British Open
golf champion, Peter Thomson,
started his current world tour
by taking first-prize in a pro.-
amateur event played as a pre-
liminary to the ,£A 16,000
Houston (Texas) Open. First-
prize was £2OO, and Thomson
had to shoot a net 66 (five-under-
par) to take the money.


March 6 Is the Day
A Great School’s Centenary
By M. H. ELLIS
The author is indebted for much of the detail in this
article to Mr. W. J. V. Windeyer, Q.C., an “old boy” and Vice-
chairman of Trustees of the, School.
THE oldest site in Australia
set aside for secondary
education, and the longest -
• used for the purpose, is
that part of the old Military
Garden of the early days now
occupied by tfie buildings of the
Sydney Grammar School in
College-street opposite Hyde
Park.
' The oldest secondary-school
building in point of scholastic
use —older by a little than the
most ancient in The King’s
School, Parramatta and
possessing a hall with great
historic associations otherwise,
is the stark central part of the
schoolhouse which has faced
across the park for more than
120 years. The curious inscrip-
tion carved over its ' main
portal was composed .by
the Rev. John Dunmore Lang N
for use on the foundation-stone
when it was laid on January 26,
1831 the Rev. Gentleman’s
Latin smelt ’ rather of the sea
breezes round Ailsa Craig than
of the Palatine Hill.
Governor Sir Thomas Brisbane
—his name appears in the in-
scription-had reserved the site
in 1825 for the purpose of
establishing a free grammar
school. He had been dreaming
of a university for the colony
even four years earlier.
The free grammar school had
not matured. Its headmaster was
to have been the learned Dr.
Uaurence Halloran, who had
formerly kept a school near
Exeter, but had earned his fare
to the colony, via Newgate, by
forging a postage-frank (though
the crime had its embellish-
ments).
He had founded a school in
Sydney in 1819, and in 1822
named it a grammar school. He
worked on a peripatetic prin-
ciple, moving his academy when-
ever his landlords lost confidence
in him.
His latest scheme went up in
flames, in a Homeric faction-
fight between his supporters,
Archdeacon Scott and John
Macarthur, versus the latter’s
deadly enemy, Sir Francis
Forbes, Chief Justice. Dr.
Halloran himself deserted on the
field, escaping from pursuing
creditors into the comparative
calm of the local debtors’
prison.
The site intended for his
free grammar schobl lay derelict,"
but not the aspirations of Sir
Francis Forbes and others.
On August 13, 1828, a meeting
summoned on the initiative of
Dr. Bla&d; at Cummings’ Hotel,
decided to form a proprietary,
capitalised in shares of £lOO each,
to found a secondary school, to
be called Sydney College.
There were crucial financial
difficulties, but Mr. Lyons, of
Lyons Terrace, a rich emancipist
auctioneer of public spirit, went
through his own and other well-
filled pockets with real efficiency
and saved the situation.
The foundation-stone was laid
to the thunder of 12 guns on
Foundation Day, 1830, by Chief
Justice Sir Francis Forbes, who
came in procession through Hyde
Park with Sir John Jamison and
the Rev. Dr. John Dunmore
Lang.
The last-named, after having
been a sore in the side of the
promoters, had decided to steal
the limelight by saying the
necessary prayers and having his
inscription engraved on the
brass foundation-plate and
carved in stone over the door of
the building, which had been
designed by Mr. Hallen, who
made a generous remission of
fees. It was to be built by Mr.
Robert Cooper, a citizen other-
wise famous as the first private
litigant to / have a cause dealt
with in Australia by a normal
civil jury.
It took three years to complete
the edifice, which was opened
early in 1835 under the head-
mastership of Mr. W. T. Cape,
who had had his own private
school since JB3oLand who had
been educated under the erudite
Dr. Bellamy at Merchant
Taylors, London. His classics
master was the more versatile
Dr. Woolls, poet, botanist,
Fellow Linnean Society,
who was later ordained in the
Church of England at 53 and
lived to be a rural dean.
As a school the college
flourished till it lost Cape in
1841. The Hungry ’Forties spid
inefficiency of control dealt it
economic blows' which killed it
in 1847.
By that time it had started on
their careers many notable, Aus-
tralians. Chief Justice Sir James
Martin was its pupil, early
singled out for future eminence
by the discerning Woolls. Also
W. E. Forster, Prime Minister
in 1860. T. A. Browne (Rolf
Boldrewood) had been in-
structed there ; so had Sir
George Wigram Allen, who
carried off its first gold-
medal and all its-prizes, and
who lived to become the
Colony’s first Minister for
Education and was destined
to set turning the wheels of
the free and universal
eddcation-system which
New South Wales pioneered.
Others of its pupils were
Daniel Deniehy ; John
Lang, one of the first, Aus-
tralian novelists ; Sir John
Lackey, noted on the Turf
as in politics; Robert
Wisdom, who distinguished
h i m s e 1 f by refusing office
offered to him by six
separate Prime Ministers ;
and Joshua Peter Bell, a
President of the Queens-
land Legislative Council, a
■Minister and father of
another Minister who
became President of the
Cambridge Union.
The College was more
than a school, however, for
possession of the largest room
in the colony, in a city which
boasted at the time no Town
Hall, made it the forum of
Sydney.
There the brave and fair went
to tiear Isaac Nathan, composer
of the music to Byron’s “Hebrew
Melodies” and erstwhile musical
historian to George IV, give his
concerts and his lectures. There
Vincent Wallace - occasionally,
dispensed his music. There the
politicals arrived in droves with
torchlight accompaniment on
February 26, 1842, to cheer
Bland, Wentworth, James
Macarthur and Charles Nichol-
son as they demanded respon-
sible government. There Robert
Lowe, later Lord Sherbrooke,
aired his eloquence at the great
dinner to Wentworth on Founda-
tion Day, 1846, as he proposed
a toast to a “speedy and
thorough reform of the colonial
policy of Britain.”
Then, after a noisy interval of
a year or two under Braim, a
headmaster who loved to
theorise rather than to toil, the
College, in 1847, lay apparently
dead. Its shabby . hall was
deserted, its great doors were
closed, its underground rooms
filled with a jumble of leavings.
The proprietors, however,
were not the sort of men to know
despair. In 1849 moved no
doubt by Wentworth, in whose
mind the matter had
present they petitioned the
Legislative Council to turn their
derelict, institution into a uni-
versity.
Through Wentworth’s drive
and initiative an Act of Council
was passed at the end of 1850,
and in October, 1852, the hall
of the College housed another
historic event: —the formal in-
auguration of Sydney University.
Grammar’s first Head: William Thomas Stephens, M.A.
In 1853, the College Founda-
tion was wound up. Dr. Bland
—originator of the basic plan
on which it had come into exist-
ence, and last of its first band
of trustees—was authorised to
sell its assets to the University,
to, which passed the College
library and all its other posses-
sions.
The University began its
teaching-career —again in the
old College-hall—with three pro-
fessors and fourteen students,
but, as its conductors soon
realised, without a satisfactory
system of feeding itself with
matriculants.
■ To quote the “Sydney Morn-
ing Herald” of the day, the
efficient working of the Urii-
versity was “much impeded by
the non-existence of a grammar
school which should prepare
students for its higher courses.”
Such a school, however, could
not survive without endowment.
Thus it came about that in
October, 1854, Henry Parkes
presented to the Legislative
Council a petition signed by 315
people, including the principal
of the University, Dr. Woolley,
asking 'for the erection of a
grammar school, staffed witu
“first-rate masters,” supported
by “a partial supple-
mented "by liberal fees,” func-
tioning in “equality, in point of
education” with the grammar
schools of English cities.
It was fitting that this petition
should be dealt with by a com-
mittee headed by Charles
Cowper, and appointed to deal
with education in general.
Cowper’s father, in 1812,
had founded the parochial
school of St. Philip’s which was
to provide many recruits for the
new school. It still functions.
Cowper himself had been the
first administrative head of the
Church and Schools Establish-
ment, fbunded by Royal Charter
in 1826, which had developed
the embryo of a generalised,
though Anglican, colonial educa-
tion-system. Ffis brother had
been the first exhibitioner sent
abroad to receive a university
education, and was destined to
become Dean of Sydney and to
carry memories of the Mac-
quarie age into the 20th century.
And, incidentally, one of his
descendants, Mr. Norman
Cowper, is now the very active
and far-seeing chairman of
trustees of the Sydney Grammar
School born of the committee’s
inquiries.
The first trustees were Edward
Deas-Thomson (Co 1 o n v i a 1
Secretary; one of the two
delegates shortly to take the
Constitution Bill to Westminster),
Charles Nicholson (Speaker and
Chancellor of the University),
Professors Woolley (Classics),
Pell (Mathematics) and Smith
(Natural Philosophy), James
Martin, G. R. Nichols, A. T.
Holroyd, Thomas Barker,
George McLeay and Edward
Cox.
The trust was linked by' the
Act to the-. University through
representation, as with the
Government through finance.
The Government provided a
£20,000 foundation and a £l5OO
p.a. subsidy.
The original intention to find
a site and. build on it an edifice
of architectural design”
was abandoned when the Uni-
versity found itself ready to
fnbve out to Grose Farm —-so the
2 acres 36 perches of the old
Military Garden granted by
Governor Brisbane and the old
College building were sold in
1856 to the trustees b$ the Uni-
versity, which had held them for
less than three years, at a nice
profit of 33 per cent., plus the
College books and pictures' and
equipment, which went out to
Grose Farm. It, would be
difficult to find a better example
of a starving institution biting
the hand designed to feed it.
The Government had to come
to light with another £5OOO to
help the trustees to fill the hole
caused' by the University’s com-
mercial raid on its endowment,
for the old building Was • ill-
contrived, and was by then some-
what battered by the onslaughts
of a generation of turbulent
Sydney youth.
However, spurred on by the
heady enthusiasm of that
decade —during which gold
poured down over the Blue
Mountains, reform was in the
air and culture and the Con-
stitution and the Australian
destiny were all-pervading topics
—the trustees rushed in to
acquire a staff. Candidates were
assembled for inspection by a
delegate through a selection-
committee lodged in King’s
College, London University, an
institution on which the. new
Sydney University proposed to
model itself.
Urgent steps were taken to
provide housing for the head-
master in a new northern wing
and for the. staff in the southern
one, built on each side of the
old hall.
Hastened forward under the
designing and supervisory hands
of Edmund Blacket (most pro-
lific of Australian ecclesiastical
architects, whose monuments
include the Great Hall of the
University and St. Andrew’s
Cathedral), the first wing was
ready in 1856 and the second in
1857. Until 1953, when the War
Memorial block was added to
the northern wing, the school
continued to look from Hyde
Park as when it opened in
Augu'st, 1857.
The “first-rate” masters,!
imported to mould the Univer-
sity’s much-needed nursery,
proved not so terrifying as
imagination may have promised,
perhaps, to the small boys in
the ankle-length pants and round
hats of the period.
Sir Charles Nicholson, who
had made the final choices when
he went to England to winnow
the pedagogic grain which the
King’s College had garnered for
him, had recruited an extra-
ordinarily kind-looking \ lot.
Most of them were very young,
bright-plumaged in their uni-
versity hoods, mild, and not a
cane or tawse about them.
Here was William Thomas
Stephens, M.A., the Head, neat
and trim and controlled as the
handwriting in which on August
3, 1857, he registered his first
trembling captive —one Joseph
T hompson —in the Liber
Nominum, and set moving the
tests in Greek syntax and English
grammar. He was only 27, and
his square neatness made him
look younger.
He was “short, well-propor-
tioned, straight as an arrow,
with a pleasing countenance and
kind-looking brown eyes.’’ Better,
he was a disciple of Arnold of
Rugby, and .abhorred the cane,
a rare outlook in the mid-
Victorian age. He had been one
of the first pupils at Marl-
borough, and had taken his
{Continued on page 30)


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ....
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
"The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Umpire .... £2/18/6 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, ; N.Z.)
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
UNITED NATIONS
rF, as an American commen-
-1 tator suggested; Britain com-
mitted Suez-cide with its landings
in Egypt, the United Nations
would not appear to be faring
much better for itself in the
same area —rather less in fact,
if the following typical British
press-comment is any indication :
London “Observer”: “The
United Nations is passing
through a*time of testing, and its
record is not brilliant. After
nine years, its efforts to solve the
Kashmir problem by way of a
plebiscite have once more been
frustrated by Indian obduracy.
In Hungary discomfiture is
complete. As”for the Suez Canal,
the United Nations is visibly no
nearer to establishing even a
temporary regime guaranteeing
passage to vessels of all countries
without discrimination, let alone
a permanent redressment .of the
wrongs done by the seizure of
the canal.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman” : “The
two resolutions passed by the
Assembly were both in effect
negative in their import. The
first again called upon Israel to
withdraw the sixth such
demand —and added nothing to
an elucidation of the position.
“The second did have a more
constructive ring- by authorising
the deployment of the United
Emergency Force along
the 1949 armistice-lines and on
the shore of the Gulf of Akaba
as a temporary ‘buffer.’ But, as
the Egyptian delegate hastened
to point out, it gave this force
no real status or authority to
act as anything but a screen for
the Israel withdrawal, and left
its dismissal from the scene at
the discretion and- convenience
of Egypt.
“All the United Nations has
done directly with its vast
authority is to try to put things
back to the state they were in
at the time of the armistice;
or even less than that —to the
state they were in when Israel
crossed the Sinai border unable
any longer to endure Egyptian
attacks from the Gaza strip and
the blockade of the Gulf of
Akaba.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“Both the United Nations and
the American attitude are a quite
monstrous hangover of the con-
ception that Nasser the
innocent victim of aggression.
It completely ignores the fact
that he has always claimed to
be still in a state of war with
Israel. Nearly everybody, except
Nasser and his confederates,
admits that Israel’s claims for
guarantees are justifiable. And
yet everybody, except Israel her-
self and France, stands on a
point of stupid punctilio in
insisting that Israel should
submit to mrilateral humiliation
before securing the primary con-
ditions of national security.”
* * * „
London “Time and Tide”:
“Canada wants to make the
United Nations an effective
force in world-affairs; but, if
this means punishing the worthy
and the honest, who are within
reach of U.N. sanctions and
letting wrongdoers like India
(over Kashmir) and the Kadar
regime in Hungary go scot-free,
that—say the Canadians regret-
fully, but as they believe
realistically f —just cannot be
helped.
“In the opinion of many
people in Britain and France (to
say nothing of Israel/ and
Pakistan) this is a profoundly
mistaken attitude. It has, how-
ever, been very influential at
U.N,. headquarters and has been
cunningly and exultantly
exploited by Egypt and her
supporters.
“The imposition of sanctions
on Israel, for the ‘crime’ of
refusing to go back, to . the
menacing and corrosive status
quo without effective U.N.
guarantees of her security, is
almost certain in the not far
distant future. Meanwhile
Israel’s repeated proposals for the
organisation and administration
of the Gaza strip and for
ensuring freedom of passage in
the Gulf of Akaba (both of
which tasks she is at present
undertaking on behalf of those
who bully her) are persistently
ignored, largely because the
•Egyptians and their claque have
persuaded a majority in U.N.
and most of its permanent
officials that to accept these
would be ‘rewarding the
aggressor.’
“This is impudent cant and as
untrue as it is impudent. There
is a flagrant instance of ‘reward-
ing the aggressor’ visibie_to the
whole world at the moment. Mr.
Nehru, reacting irritably and
sanctimoniously to the sugges-
tion that he is practising a
double standard in international
morality, proclaims that India
will never permit ‘alien forces’
to enter Kashmir. What would
those ‘alien forces’ be? A
United Nations contingent, such
as India was eager to raise and
to which she obligingly con-
tributed troops, in the Suez
Canal affair.
“No authoritative voice is
iaised in the United Nations to
point this out; nothing is done
to bring Mr. Nehru to any show
of compliance with U.N. resolu-
tions which he has defied, or to
the fulfilment of pledges which
he has broken. This is the
feeble and hypocritical position
into which good and honorable
Governments, like the Govern-
ment of Canada, are pushed
order to sustain a noble
fiction, they must resort to the
appeasement of nationalist and
expansionist ambitions.
“There is no pressure at all on
Mr. Nehru; there is the maxi-
mum pressure on Israel. Mr.
Hammarskjoeld does not sum-'
mon Mr. Krishna Menon to give
him a wigging and a warning ;
he summons Mr. Eban.
“The irony of it all is that
Israel, whose resolute stand is
denounced as ‘defiance’ of the
United Nations, will not yield
and is right not to yield ; and
that India, from whose sudden
and ruthless annexation of a
large part of Kashmir all virtu-
ous eyes are primly averted, is
completely in the wrong, could
be brought swiftly <and firmly
to book, but will not be.
“Can there be any doubt that
here is that double standard 'in
N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
THE GREAT GAMBLE
the outlook and the day-to-day
activities of the United Nations
which is steadily destroying its
reputation and its practical
effectiveness?” ,
Kashmir
Commenting editorially on
Indian Prime Minister Nehru’s
rejection of the proposal that
a United Nations body should
supervise a plebiscite in Kashmir
—“lndia could not tolerate
a foreign force on Indian soil”
—“New York Times” points
out that “the whole question
is whether Kashmir is or is not
‘lndian soil’ ”:
“Nine years ago Mr. Nehru
stated that this should be
decided by a vote of the Kash-
miris. Apparently he has now
determined that this is no longer
what needs to be determined.
The blunt assumption that
Kashmir is ‘lndian soil’ is a pre-
supposition. Kashmir is not
‘lndian soil,’, or any other soil,
until the Kashmiris themselves
have a free chance to say what
they want and why.”
Following much the same
argument “M anchester
Guardian” adds that “it is not at
all clear what a genuinely free
vote in Kashmir would decide”:
it would now choose
that Kashmir should be autono-
mous under a Government of
both India and Pakistan. That
would be a difficult solution,
but not impossible.
“For India to make, new con-
cessions would, of course, be a
heroic act of statesmanship by
Mr. Nehru. He would stake
his future, and it must be
admitted that he might fail;
opinion in India is strongly in
favor of hanging on to what
India holds.
“But Mr. Nehru, convinced
of the rightness of a course, has
never lacked boldness. If he
looks ahead, he may be
encouraged to take risks. By
his present policy he has lost
a part of India’s moral
authority. Certainly by his
recent methods he can his
part of Kashmir —but it will be
like pocketing a time-bomb.”
British Defence Cuts
Mooted British defence-cuts —
“Britain has been dividing her
resources in a vain attempt to
do a little of everything at once:
the hydrogen-bomb, the up-to-
date Air Force, the guided-
missile, the conventional Army
scattered over the world, and the
conventional Navy have all had
a part in our defence pro-
gramme” (Edinburgh “Scots-
man”) —are naturally very much
the concern of the Allied Forces
in Europe, the Supreme Com-
mander (General Norstad) hav-
ing, London “Economist” notes,
“forcefully underlined the
importance of achieving the
agreed minimum shield of 30
Nato divisions.” ,
Commenting on Norstad’s
problems, the “Economist”
further points out that
“what concerns him is not so
much-the possibility of losing
one or two British divisions at
this stage, but the development
of the idea that any member of
the alliance may make such
economies, dictated by national
and perhaps temporary
exigencies, on a unilateral
reassessment of the strategic
requirements of Nato as a
whole. For if one can do it, so
can all, and the purpose and
coherence of the whole alliance,
together with the authority of
S.H.A.P.E. [Supreme Head-
quarters Allied Powers in
Europe], will dissolve.”
“The Supreme Commander,”
the “Economist” adds, “is also
bound to resist such economies
on any grounds, though he is in
fact well aware of the reasons
which prompt Britain to con-
sider them. He has not got 30
divisions ; he has only 14 or 15.
The five divisions which he
expects to get from Germany by
the end of the year—though they
will/still be under training—and
an additional division from
Holland will bring him to 20.
The full 30 is now not expected
until 1961 or so ; and he there-
fore remains well below strength.
“That strength is the
S.H.A.P.E. estimate of what is
necessary to ensure that Europe
cannot be overrun at vital points
too swiftly for the atomic
deterrent to take effect. The
present deficiency is bound to
offer, in S.H.A.P.E.Is view, a
permanent temptation to the
Russians to make a smash-and-
grab raid on a calculation that
gains could be snatched without
incurring atomic retaliation.
Continued deficiency in
S.H.A.P.E. divisions may give
rise in Russian minds to the
dangerous idea that the West is
not resolute, rather than that it
is simply relying on a thin
tripwire.
“From S.H.A.P.E.’s point of
View, if cuts must be made in
British commitments, the four
divisions [in Germany] are the
last that should be touched;
Nato commanders would rather
have a further cut made in the
R.A.F., even though it has been
cut almost every year. To halve
R.A.F. strength would only
reduce Nato’s air-strength by 10
per cent., and this could be
absorbed. Still lower in priorities
from S.H.A.P.E.’s point of view
is the V-bomber force (whose
role the Strategic Air Command
could take over). The Royal
Navy comes last of all.”
The difficulty is, the
“Economist” concludes, that “a
reduction of Britain’s land-forces
in Germany offers the quickest
hope of Budgetary economies in
1957-58, compared with cuts in
research and development, or
even in the Navy and R.A.F.
Such economies would also
make a more immediate con-
tribution to easing the balance
of payments. They hold out,
too, most promise of ending
conscription.
“There is, however, another
question about the minimum
point below which the British
commitment cannot fall: if the
land forces were cut, and the
R.A.F. by several more
squadrons, could Britain expect
to fill so many senior command
positions in the chain, or expect
to exert anything like its present
influence at headquarters?
“The answer must probably be
no ; if Britain’s contribution were
to fall almost to the level of
Holland’s, it could not expect
to carry its present weight simply
on the strength of a (from Paris
or Bonn) invisible atomic strike-
force and invisible Navy. Yet if
the British brasshats departed,
belief that Britain is committed
to Nato would be further
undermined.”
U.S. Defence
The “ultimate weapon,” as
America’s intercontinental
ballistic missile is called, is,
according to New York “Herald
Tribune” writer Stewart Alsop,
likely to materialise well ahead
of previous schedules. The 15-
ton missile —expected to travel at
20 times the speed of sound, to
soar to an altitude of 600 miles
and to have a range of over
5000 miles —is due for testing,
Alsop notes, before the end of
this year instead of in 1960. -
It will, however, be some time
between 1963 and 1967 before
these weapons are “operational”
and in the meantime, Alsop con-
cludes, “the capability of inflict-
ing ‘massive retaliation’ by other
means —especially manned air-
craft —must, of course, at all
costs be maintained.”
Regarding Uncle Sam’s cap-
ability in that regard the report
of the Symington committee on
U.S. air-power as compared with
that of the Soviet does not, in
the editorial view of N. Y.
“Herald Tribune,” make alto-
gether comforting reading.
The “Herald Tribune” quotes
the testimony of Colonel Edward
M. Nichols, of the U.S. Strategic
Air Command:
“We are firmly convinced that
with the capability the Russians
have today, they can destroy our
[U.S.] aircraft-industry and we
will fight the war with the air-
craft (we have) the day the war
starts. They have that
capability.”
And that of General Curtis E.
LeMay, Commander-in-Chief of
the Strategic Air Command:
“I do not think any bomber
will come out the door after war
starts, and your decision is going
to be rendered with what you
fyave in the units at the time the
war starts.”
From this and other evidence


Vs* **<
I
mm
iiillli
■■,s■‘- *; f . f v " , «
*- 'V m V- V. ? f :'• % V /
I
m
A*/
m
m
Wiil You Give Some Boys a New Start in Life?
Herding, the sheep (a donation) are the
first arrivals at the lANDRA Rural Train-
ing Centre between Young and Greene-
thorpe.
It is there that' boys, who through lack
of guidance or on account of entangled
family relations got into trouble with the
law, get a chance to start a new life with
the help of Social Welfare workers, and
become useful citizens, trained in every
aspect of farming.
lANDRA was officially opened on the
27th of October, last year, by Sir Frank
Kitto, a Justice of the High Court of Aus-
tralia, fvho" said in his opening speech: “The
truth that man IS his brother’s keeper
never strikes home more than when his
brother is only a youngster.”
Much has been publicized and many
praising words have been said about this
wonderful scheme, which no doubt will
appeal to everybody interested in the
welfare of youngsters and which helps to
stamp out the perturbing increase in
juvenile delinquency.
The Home, surrounded by 800 acres of
fertile land, has been acquired in the full
belief that an Appeal for funds, to pay
for the property and equip it with the
necessary stock, will have a worthy response
from those who have the interest of National
Welfare at heart.
lANDRA is for boys of all denominations
and is controlled by a local council of some
60 members.
YOU ARE ASKED TO GIVE GENEROUSLY SO THAT THIS AMBITIOUS
PROJECT CAN BE CARRIED ON. WILL YOU PLEASE HELP . . . NOW?
FILL UP THIS COUPON NOW
To the landra Appeal, 139 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please find attached my gift for £ : :
Mr./Mrs./Miss • • •'
Address
ALL DONATIONS OF £1 OB OVER ARE PERMISSIBLE DEDUCTIONS FKOM INCOME TAN.
OFFICIAL RECEIPTS WILL BE POSTED TO YOU.'
the paper draws the “minimum
conclusions”:
“That our [U.S.] present razor-
thin superiority in total air-
power rests more upon past pro-
duction —not on the rate of
present production—and is peril-
ously in danger.
“That considering the speed
with which the Soviet Union is
now producing heavy bombers,
nothing which the United States
is now doing or planning will
change this trend.
“That in jet-engines, missiles
and in research and develop-
ment generally the Soviets are
progressing at a faster rate than
the United States and at this
pace will attain superiority.
“That the United States is
relying far too heavily upon our
capacity to mobilise our indus-
trial potential in the event of
war and is thus permitting the
Soviets to wrest the balance of
air-power from our hands on the
false assumption that ,we can
make it up later.”
Britain's Color
Problem
Britain’s colored population is
now in the vicinity of 100,000
West Indians, Pakistanis and
Arabs. The West Indians —from
Jamaica, Barbados and Trinidad
—are increasing at the rate of
26,000 a year.
Surveying the situation, Cecil
Northcott, in London “Con-
temporary Review,” finds that
on the whole they are being
comfortably absorbed into
industry, although there are
instances of prejudice “based on
genuine differences of opinion as
well as on color-prejudice”:
“There is, of course, an almost
universal feeling against the
association of colored men and
white girls with the possibility
of mixed marriages, and it is this
risk which makes the plans for
social organisations and the
churches difficult in arranging
for local integration.
“The Indians, Pakistanis and
Arabs, either Hindus or Moslems
and often not naturally at home
in the English language, prefer to
keep to themselves and have
formed at least six associations
for political, religious and
welfare purposes. Most of them
prefer to run their own small
businesses and keep their strong
links with their homes.
“The West Indians, however,
are accustomed to mixing with
English people and have a tradi-
tion of friendship with Britain
and regard it as ‘their
country’ as much as native-born
Britishers. Many of them have
religious links, too, through the
churches, and while all the
churches in the districts where
colored workers have settled
welcome them the West Indians
themselves rather like their own
freer, livelier style of worship
and so tend towards separation
in their religious groupings.
“Looking at the coming of
color to Britain over the whole
country, minute as it is in pro-
portion to the white population,
it can be said there is no sign
of a rise of a color-bar. There
are prejudices, incidents with
landladies, difficulties about
housing, problems of daily
conduct which may be magnified
because one of the parties is
colored, but in the main there is
much public goodwill towards
the newcomers.
“You see it on London’s
Underground in the popularity
of the colored employees and in
the big industrial cities where
the colored worker is taken for
granted as part of the pattern of
modern industry.
“The overseas student, too,
from-all parts of Africa and Asia
is also here by the thousand, and
he helps to condition the British
public to the presence of color.
He, of course, is only a visitor,
but an extremely important one
in eventual and potential in-
fluence back home. Whafo he
thinks about color in Britain
will decide political policy in
Asia and Africa as much as the
experiences of his industrial .
compatriot in heavy industry and
transport.
“In fact the ordinary Britisher
is now facing the color problem
as he has read about it in South
Africa and the United States, and
much may turn on his personal
and industrial reactions.”
Propaganda
Edirrb u r g h “Scotsman”
comment following the Lords
debate on the value of the
8.8.C.’s external services:
“The idea that propaganda is
ungentlemanly dies hard in this
country [Britain], but it is not
ungentlemanly to report the facts
objectively day in, day out, as
the 8.8. C. have done, or to
represent quietly but* insistently
our own [Britain's] viewpoint on
issues ranging from the narrowly
political to the most funda-
mental.
“The primary failure of our
propaganda has been quanti-
tative. This failure comes down
to money. A Labor M.P. not
long ago said that our annual
expenditure on information ser-
vices was £l2 million, as against
£4O million for America and
£l5OO million for Russia.
“Even if these figures are only
approximate, the disproportion
is quite staggering. Mr. Sandys
will shortly be laying out huge
sums to defend the British Isles
with guided-missiles. It should
be clear enough today that even
our material interests cannot
be defended by direct material
means alone.
“Our interests are world-wide.
Defence Budgets are thrown
away if we lose the battle of
ideas, a battle we can consider
already lost unless we reappor-
tion our expenditure.
“This is not an argument
against economy, but against
false economy. Have we not
yet understood how in a thou-
sand ways that £l5OO million
per annum spent by Russia
threatens our existence?”
U.S. and Saudi Arabia
Listing some of the terms of
the agreement between King
Saud and the U’.S., London
“New Statesman” notes that “the
Saudi Army (at present 15,000
strong) will be doubled and
equipped with American arms;
and America will also provide
Sabre jets,- medium and light
tanks', anti-tank guns and
communications-equiprrient, in-
cluding desert troop-carrying
vehicles. (This last will relieve
Aramco of the embarrassing
necessity of lending Saud trans-
port for his ,periodic incursions
into British-protected territories.)
Saud is alsd, it is believed, get-
ting a ‘write-off’ of his Aramco
overdraft.
“In return, America has got a
five-year renewal of the strategic
air-base at Dhahran and a condi-
tional endorsement of the Eisen-
hower doctrine.’ These parallel
negotiations mark an important
stage in the transfer of power
from Britain to America in the
Middle East.”,
Commenting further, London
“Daily Telegraph” suggests that
King Saud “does not need
military and economic aid —
though he is perspnally short of
cash —as urgently as the [U.S.]
President needs a reliable Arab
associate, and therein lies a
certain risk for British policy”:
“Saudi Arabia is an expan-
sionist country. In the name of
anti-colonialism she would like
to ‘liberate’ those small States
which, under British protection,
separate her from parts of the
seaboard of the Persian Gulf and
the Indian Ocean. At this very
moment her agents are active in
thfe Yemen against our friends.
“Aden, the ultimate objective
of this activity, is very important
to us [Britain], but even more
important are the oil-producing
sheikdoms of the Gulf.
“So long as British and
Saudi interests directly clash, so
long is King Saud an accom-
plice, if not an ally, of Nasser.
When the Suez Canal was
nationalised and we retaliated by
freezing Egypt’s sterling
balances, the King declared ‘I
am with Egypt with all I possess’
—and made a donation of $lO
million out of an estimated
annual income of $3OO million.
“Our American friends will
therefore understand why some
disquiet is felt here [Britain]
about their reported offers to
strengthen the King's forces. Not
only would such aid frustrate the
agreed policy of keeping Israeli
and Arab arms in rough balance
—or has that policy been
abandoned? —but it would also
furnish the tracked vehicles and
aircraft needed to show the Saudi
flag on the Trucial Coast.
“In Washington, where ‘face’
over China and Formosa is so
desperately defended, there
seems to be no understanding
of what would be the effect
among sultans and sheikhs
friendly to Britain if King Saud
got his way, for example, over
Buraimi.”
British Emigration
Commenting on the results of
a Gallup Poll which indicated
that 41 per cent, of Britons
would emigrate if they could,
London “News Chronicle”
observes that “escapism has
reached the point at which
Government and people must
ask themselves why this is
happening on quite such a
scale”:
“The economic causes of our
[Britain’s] discontent are familiar
enough. ,We are subjected to the
most crippling direct taxation in
the world, which smothers incen-
tive,, and we are the victims of
an inflationary spiral which
makes it daily more difficult to
feed and house a family.
“Politically there is a growing
cynicism about both the main
parties. For all their pledges,
exhortations and frothy mutual
invective, there is precious little
to choose between them. Six
years, ago there were those who
blamed fair shares for all: today,
after six years of Tory rule, in-
vestment in success has brought
no notable dividends.
“Britain today is the Britain
that post-war Tory and Labor
Governments have willed and
brought about: a Britain that
millions of people now say they
are prepared to leave.
“What we must grapple with
is a state of mind, a mood that
goes deeper than politics and
economics. This mood runs
through society and is com-
pounded of special factors: the
war, an ageing population, the
loosening of family ties, and a
rootlessness due in part to a
weakening of religion ; even, per-
haps, to the H-bomb.
“Only leadership can provide
a pattern for living which is
less grey and uniform, where a
zest for the daily struggle is
worth while, and where healthy
ambitions are not pole-axed by
the statutes.”
On the same subject, London
“Economist” notes that a
“second and more interesting
poll was published in the Cam-
bridge undergraduate magazine
‘Varsity’ ”:
In this poll, “5183 men and
420 women —the second-year
and third-year student body of
the university—were asked the
much more definite questions,
‘Have you decided to emigrate
when you have graduated?’ and
‘lf not, have you considered
doing so?’
“Only 6 per cent, of the men
and 10 per cent of the women
bothered to answer these lead-
ing questions.; of these respond-
ents, 11.3 per cent, of the men
and 34.1 per cent, of the women
had decided to leave, and 27.6
per cent, of the men and 14.9 per
cent, of the women were con-
sidering doing so.
“A little arithmetic discloses
—on the rather presumptive, but
not w h o 1 l.y unreasonable,
assumption that ‘ "failure to
answer wopld generally be
equivalent, in this instance, to a
‘No’-—that the serious' prospec-
tive emigrants total 54 out of
5603 persons, with • some three
times that number ‘considering’
the possibility.
“The proportion is higher, cer-
tainly, than that of emigrants in
general to total population; so
if all these intentions; were
carried out they would constitute
something of a selective drain.
It should not simply be scoffed
at.
“But the contrast with the
Gallup inquiry is notable,
especially as the younger
respondents to Gallup are likely
to have been more dissatisfied
than the older. The contrast, of
course, is between saying one
‘wants’ and saying one has
‘decided’ to emigrate. It is a
large difference; but so is the
difference between ‘deciding’ and
actually going—let alone staying
away.
“It is sad, no doubt, that the
respondents’ intentions to go
should be mostly based on dis-
satisfaction, disgruntlement, and
a general tendency to sell Britain
short, rather than on a fine con-
structive Commonwealth-build-
ing idealism. But disgruntlement
is nowadays a creditably modish
attitude, while constructive Com-
monwealth-building idealism is,
if not-U, at all events decidedly
non-O.K.
“On balance, the ‘Varsity’
survey is rather a reassuring than
an alarming document.”
Sir Alexander Spearman
(British M.P.): “The prosperous
free world is the danger to the
men in the Kremlin. The
Communist army, its huge fleet
of submarines and, above all,
its rockets and hydrogen-bombs,
are the danger to us. They are
threats we cannot ever afford to
forget or to minimise, and
appeasement is out of the ques-
tion.”


degree at Oxford in 1852 with
a first in classics and a third
in mathematics, and he had been
a senior tutor at Queen’s College.
He taught with a glowing
enthusiasm—Latin at sight from
the author, Greek to the sixth-
form, English literature, logic to
elder boys. Yet he found time
to keep his finger on all the
details of administration and
visit all classes weekly and to
give some of his time to the
improvement of the school
surroundings.
The mathematics master, Pratt,
was a long, thin, angular logician
with a passion for dogmas, lately
a scholar of Corpus Christi,
Cambridge, where he had been
ninth wrangler in 1854.
That bald and elongated
person, who always smelt of
eau-de-Cologne, which he kept in
quantity in his desk and used as
an antidote for the heat, was
Mr. Julius L Stutzer, M.A., of
Trinity College, Cambridge, who
had won the University Latin
Essay prize in 1844, and who
had been lately Assistant Pro-
fessor of History at King’s
College, London University.
Finally, among imported
masters was E. S. Whitfield,
M.A., Fellow and lecturer of
Trinity Hall, Cambridge.
The rest were more familiar,
for they were locals—M. Dutruc,
who was Reader in French at
Sydney University John Mills,
the English master, lately at
Fort Street, which had been
opened in the old Military Hos-
pital in 1849 ; Mr. Fairland, the
fashionable drawing-master, the
color of whose eyes was much
commented on by many a young
Sydney lady whom he instructed
in the art of copying “The Stag
at Bay.”
To be viewed with some
apprehension was Mr. Thomas
Baynes, fencing- and drill-
iiistructor and college-sergeant
alf in one, bearing himself with
the natural hauteur of a former
sergeant-major of the 11th
Regiment of the Line (Devons).
The masters had less reason
to be enthusiastic about their- lot
than the boys or the parents.
They had no tradition to under-
pin their beginnings. Their sur-
roundings were crude and cheer-
less. There was no library, none
of the lists of rich and warming
endowments which now decorate
the annual speech-day pro-
grammes.
Playing-fields there were none.
A glassy slope, of raw and
cracked clay between the
tussocks, in dry weather, a slip-
pery slope of greasy ooze in wet
weather, was all the 'school-
grounds had to offer in the way
of recreation space.
Even 16 years after its open-
ing Mr. Weigall was unable to
impress on the trustees the need
for playing-fields. Let the lads
use Hyde Park and the Military
Ground at Moore Park, or go
out to Petersham! And the
contemptuous bark of Governor
Sir Hercules Robinson —he
always barked, having been
trained at Sandhurst and having
thenceforth considered the world
his parade-ground that the
existing environs of the school
were nothing but a “goat walk,”
and that a “clean sweep” should
be made of the whole school by
“putting a firestick to the ram-
shackle old pile” and building
on a “proper site,” had no effect
When the 100-odd young
Cornstalks who breasted the
examination-tables in that
inauspicious month of August,
1857, turned-ufi next day,
August 4, it rained. It continued
to rain. There was mud and
more mud. _
Gloom must have increased
with the passing of the days of
August! as floods swept through
Maitland and drowned the
Hawkesbury and Nepean and
Camden .lands, and the news of
the wreck of the Dunbar at the
Gap, with the loss of all hands
but one, came in on August 24.
It must have seemed to those
who had been able to leave the
school on enrolment-day in time
to see Mayor Thornton intro-
duce the replica of Cleopatra’s
Needle to Sydney, just across the
Park from the schoolhouse, that
the strange monument had
brought with it all the curses
and plagues of Egypt.
The first set of masters did
their best against odds and inter-
ferences. By a carping Legis-
lature whose members, in debate,
still quoted the classics, they were
pestered about their methods of
teaching Latin. They were
pursued by parsimonious parents
grudging in the payment of fees.
Living in the southern wing
—still today exhibiting its
chimneys as the memorials of
their long-quenched kitchen-
fires, which went out for ever
when they moved to private
homes in the early 1870’s—
the masters looked out on the
claypatch at the rear, on their
own and the headmaster’s fowl-
yards and kitchen-gardens, on
the rummaging goats, and at the
flies buzzing in hordes round
Mr. Stephens’s domestic cow.
+ +
The day began at 9 a.m. with
roll-call in the big schoolroom.
The midday-break came at noon
and lasted two hours, because
most of the boys must walk
home for the meal, though some
ate at school. So low was the
Sydney skyline still that all at
the school could watch the ball
at the Observatory fall on the
north-western skyline to mark
the passing of the first half of
lunch-hour. And the one-
o’clock gun sent the gulls
scurrying down in Woolloo-
moploo Bay within sight.
At two-o’clock the six forms,
none larger than 2p boys,
clumped back into' the class-
rooms.
Those early masters achieved
wonders. In between teaching
the sixth-form its classics,
Stephens succeeded in adorn-
ing the place a little, planting
trees and shrubs (of which little
was done again till the day of
Norman Cowper), but mainly
devoting himsejff to the inculca-
tion of a love of the classics,
while the thin, stooping, nervous
“Buck” Pratt and his cohorts
wrestled with the Pons Asinorum,
and Whitfield (whose son later
came to be senior Knox Prize)
winner and Vice-Chancellor and
Professor of Engineering at the
University of Western Aus-
tralia, besides earning fame as
the author of Sydney Uni-
versity’s heady anthem “Grads
and Undergrads and FSllows”)
struggled with the resistances of
his immature material (and no
doubt with claustrophobia) in
the recesses of the “dungeons.”
It is a measure of their sqccess
with their earliest pupils that in
1879, only 21 years after they
first opened their classes, one of
their “old boys” was Mayor of
Sydney in the year of the Great
International Exhibition, the
giver of that glittering civic
“fancy-dress ball” in the Exhibi-
tion Building, in Prince Alfred
Park, which was illustrated in a
famous drawing and the memory
of which was a legend in Sydney
for many a year.
Another of their pupils whose
Greek essay was the best in the
year of 1861, and who had a
part that year in the school’s
Greek play, Sophocles’ tragic
“Antigone,” was Edmund
Barton, a father of Federation,
the first Prime Minister of the
Commonwealth.
At first all seemed to go
smoothly. The school grew all
too quickly. By 1859 it had 200
pupils, with- only 130 desks to
hold them. Fifteen scholarships
had been established. In .1858
it received its first £5OO gift
from Severin Kanute Salting.
Eighteen pupils had distinguished
themselves at the University by
1864.
But by this time the bias was
towards the school’s enemies.
John Dunmore Lang, the peren-
nial mischief-maker of the
colony, was in full cry against
the school syllabus' and its
masters’ tendency to ape the
English rather than the Scottish
mode. The fees became an issue
in the high-pitched election-
campaign of 1859. The twelve-
weeks’ holiday in-4he year and
the free Saturdays were ever
more unpopular with parents.
The roll began to shorten as the
novelty of the academy wore
off. There were only 127 pupils
in 1866.
Worse still, discontent and
faction grew up among the.
masters, as their stipends, partly
built upon capitation T fees,
declined. Pratt, assailed by
slander and at odds with
fStepheris and other colleagues,
was compelled to clear himself at
a Parliamentary inquiry of a
charge that he was a “blasphem-
ous infidel.”
In the melee it seemed that the
school would break-up. Stephens
resigned, and the promptness
with which the trustees accepted
his resignation, in the face of
the support of the headmaster
by the Governor, showed on
which side they stood. Perhaps,
in that rude community, a head-
master who did not deal out the
cane was looked on as “a bit
soft.”
Stephens went off to a private
school which he called Engles-
field, 'followed, like the Pied
Piper, by his young devotees. He
later became Professor of
Natural History at the University
and for the final eight years
before his death in 1890 he was
also Professor of Classics.
When young Alfred Bythesea
Weigall, who had*come to Aus-
tralia under (he aegis of ' Dr.
Morrison, of Geelong, arrived to
take charge in 1868 the school
was even more dilapidated than
'in 1857.
_ There were only 39 pupils left,
and at his first meeting with the
trustees they “informed me that
there was a strong probability
that the school would be closed,
and that in any case I seemed_
too young a man to undertake
its .management.” He was 28
years old.
They did not know their
Weigall. A son of the church
and a nephew of the tough old
admiral from whom he acquired
his second Christian-name, he
had been educated at The King’s
School, Macclesfield, a founda-
tion of Henry VII, and Brase-
nose, Oxford, and had been the
friend and disciple of Thomas
Hill Green, the philosopher, and
colleague of J'owett 'among the
tutors of Balli#.
He had come to Australia “for
his health.” He wrote Latin
verse with an Augustan delicacy
of touch. But his mind and will
needed'no physician’s attention.
He feared not trustees with weak
knees, goat-ridden environs,
Governors or public criticism.
He knew what he wanted. He
was a leader, not a follower, and
he begjan with the advantage
that growing wealth and swifter
travel were bringing the new
generation of colonial parents
more closely into affinity with
the trends of England, where
there was distinctly a boom in
classical learning, a revival of
interest in creative literature and
the arts. In the United Kingdom
great public schools were rising
like mushrooms: Clifton,
Haileybury, Cranleigh, Malvern,
Fettes and others were all born
in the decade beginning in 1862.
As he looked out on the farm-
yard scene to the rear of the
school Weigall might have
realised that he enjoyed some
blessings, for it is better to have
six full-time and four visiting
masters to 39 boys, if efficiency
is an aim, than the same staff
to 390 boys.
A reduction of fees was not an
unmixed evil. A sudden effusion
of educational fervor, fanned by
men like W. A. Windeyer, who
was bursting* with enthusiasm
for female education (of. which
he was the projector) and for
grammar schools in all big
towns, helped a lot.
The incentive and a spirit of
emulation produced a'mopg
parents by early successes of
pupils at the universities did
some good. By 1876 all the
scholarships at the University
were held by “old boys” of
S.G.S.
By 1878 Weigall had made
Sydney Grammar School into a
great public school, if Still ill-
supplied and ill-equipped and
precariously financed. It had all
the normal features of such a
school in England ; prefects, a
cadet corps; exhibitions and
prizes ; moral backing ; a sound
reputation. ,
The bearded Weigall lent a
special character to the school.
He was exacting as to behavior,
sometimes emotional, an
“original” in the sense of having
distinctive and arresting manner-
isms. He was ambitious,
impatient of uncouthness and
boorishne'ss; but foreseeing, a
good school politician, slow and
careful in his proceedings, clear-
cut in his aims, and, though often
camouflaging them, relentless
and persistent in his pursuit of
them.
His overt emphasis in policy
was on character and personality
rather than on scholarship; but
fine scholarship he was
determined to produce in
quantity,' through appeal to self-
respect and morale, while he
continuously preached the
doctrine that schools were not
made only for and by clever boys.
One of his early steps in 1870,
after he had got over his
initial difficulties, well
illustrates Weigall’s methods. He
founded a cadet corps.
This he afterwards declared
to haves, been the first step
towards a corporate school. And
so it was, for he knew how to
use it as the core of his system,
which he maintained until the
end of his long reign.
Onlookers found something
"boyish and a little trivial in his
devotion to the corps, which he
commanded himself - with a
captain’s rank. But marching
with the corps’ impressive and
parrot-hued array—scarlet coats
with white-braided blue cuffs,
blue trousers with wide red
stripes, gaudy peaked caps —he
came closer to his charges. He
joined with verve in the singing
on the marches and on the
bivouacs around the campfires,
the parades that showed off his
boys in mass at their best to the
citizens in an age in which it
was most respectable to be a
volunteer. It was not good
advertisement only ; it gave a
fillip to the school’s pride.
+ +
Camps were his speciality, and
he used them cunningly to
promote his corporate ideal.
Who could resist belonging to
the corps, serving in it with
devotion, when * membership
conferred the inestimable privi-
lege of camp once a year?
Every year he held camp on a
distant and different site.' He
began with a sea-trip to Broken
Bay and Wiseman’s Ferry in
1872, In 1874 they went to
Botany Bay. Parramatta heard
their songs round the bivouac-
firps for a week at Michaelmas
in 1876, Bowenfels in 1877,
Bathurst, in 1878. Then came
Mittagong and Camden. There
were sham fights and night-
attacks. There was plenty of
rifle-shooting, plenty of emula-
tion, competition, color.
And all the time an uncon-
scious assimilation, a melting-
pot process which gradually
produced an esprit cle corps
affecting the whole school and
making other corporate action
possible. He took it as the seal
on his success, perhaps, that it
was in camp that he earned his
affectionate nickname of “The
Chief” —a clansman, but the
elect of the clan. .
In 1874 he replaced an older
system of discipline with the
prefect system. Later years
justified the system, for many
captains and senior prefects—
some held both offices-—main-
tained their lead in authority
and/or scholarship in a wide
world.
The first captain, C. S. Mein
(1860), became a Queensland
judge. Most of his successors
in later life achieved some-
thing. They included A. J.
Cape, solicitor ; Edmund Barton,
Professor Rennie; J. Jacobs,
the Hebrew scholar ; G. B. Allen,
solicitor; Hubert Murray, of
Papua ; R. C. Broomfield, K.C.;
Sir Robert Garran; H. A.
Russell; Canon A. H.
Garnsey, Warden of St. Paul’s
College ; E. M. Mitchell, K.C.;
Dr. Waddell, of Minter Simp-
son; R. C. Teece, Q.C .; Pro-
fessor Lowenthal, and many
more. The senior prefects
included, as well as some of
these, Richard Windeyer, Q.C.,
and Sir John Peden and many
others famed in the professions
and sport.
In appointing staff, Weigall l
chose, where he could, men who
had spent a little time in recent
public-school foundations in
England, where experiment was
rife. It paid.
Thus, as the Chief said, through
Edwin Bean (father of C. E. W.
Bean), who came in 1875 from
Clifton, via Geelong to teach
Greek, and Charles Francis, who
came from Marlborough, “the
elements of the public-school
spirit were introduced” and
married to the esprit cle corps
which he was building through
the cadets. •
Bean started the school-
magazine “The Sydneian” over
80 years ago, and, with two other
■masters, the school rowing-club.
Francis put cricket on an
organised basis and initiated the
annual match with Melbourne
Grammar School on the model
of Eton v. Harrow.
Weigall’s staff stayed long and
became famous—Farrar, 30
years ; Goldie, 46 years ; Whit-
field, last survivor of the
old originals, retired after 30
years ; G. P. Barbour only left
after 20 years "to become head-
master of Toowoomba Grammar
School. Savigny, for a genera-
tion and more, combined the
enthusiasms of an Oxford
rowing-blue with an equal
enthusiasm for Shakspeare.
“Crumpy” Vaughan’s the task
to give the boy not built
for speed or sport the substitute
interests provided by the
Hobbies Club woodcarving,
cabinetmaking, bookbinding, in
which he showed himself adept
during the 27 years of his reign.
There were others like R. H.
(Gussy) Bode, for 44 years and
through the reigns of four head-
masters, a courtly apostle of
gentlemanliness; T. H. Wing,
who retired in 1939 after 39
years’ teaching of English
literature, the still -living
“Wonga” of “old boy” functions.
And, lastly among the oldsters,
Arthur Giles, a mighty man,
who for many a year moulded
the Lower School.
When Weigall came the
population of Sydney was
110,000, and there was little pride
in, or hope for, the school. He
died in 1912, when the popula-
tion of Sydney was round the
threequarter-million mark, and
when the continent hnd the great
overseas universities were well
studded with his distinguished
pupils.
He had made S.G.S. into a
great school, but he had done
something more, for he had
never lost sight of the ideal that,'
though other great secondary
schools might grow up around
the oldest Australian metropolis,
this should be the school ol
Sydney city, with no ambition to
leave it, when expansion exerted
the pressures of restricted space.
So it has become, functioning
in the city’s busy heart, adapting
itself to the job of living where
it belongs, though throwing out
branches —a new preparatory
school at Edgecliff, a lower
boarding-school at St. Ives.
Its brlack-and-gold coat-of-
arms, with “Laus Deo" inscribed
on an open book above the
golden cross of stars, is as
much a feature of the dressing
of Sydney City as the white-and-
scarlet hatband of the City of
London School is in London
arm silk-hat and tails used to
be of Westminster round the
Abbey.
(A second article will appear
next week.)


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. 2/-
Vcarly 22/6
STRENGTH TO STRENGTH ”
Outstanding Features of the 87th Annual Report
of THE NATIONAL MUTUAL LIFE:-
—
BOMf '»
bohus mm mam
.. N> *
rates maintained
f* WMJ£ ■ W Bums
> A C C E T r DUjint},
WUMNCB * £467,000,000
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS
"FROM STRENGTH TO STRENGTH "
The Chairman of Directors, Sir Robert Knox,
in these four homely words summed up the
magnificent progress of the National Mutual
Life during the year ended 30th September,
1956. Salient points from his address to the
Annual Meeting were: —
"NEW BUSINESS £79,400,000. Our 1956
figures exceeded by over 20% the record
established in 1955. The striking,
increase over the last two years a 60%
increase is ample evidence of the very
high regard in which the National Mutual
is held and of the excellence of our policy
contracts/ 7
"HIGH BONUSES MAINTAINED. Bonuses
are again being allotted on the 20%
increased scale adopted last year The
National Mutual is, in general, a relatively
low premium office so that our highly
competitive bonuses are particularly gratify-
ing to our policyholders."
"BENEFIT PAYMENTS TO POLICY-
HOLDERS. £7,550,000 was paid to policy-
holders during the year and £9,730,000 was
added to policyholders' funds and reserves."
"INVESTED ASSETS £126,530,000.
POLICYHOLDERS' FUNDS £122,680,000.
These accumulated funds guarantee future
payments to our hundreds of thousands of
policyholders. They include substantial
reserves of over £4 million which make
'assurance doubly sure'."'
"OUR FIELD ORGANISATION. The
National Mutual is represented by Field
Staffs throughout Australia. These trained
full-time representatives are well qualified
to give a 1 complete service of information
regarding the Association's policy contracts,
and of advice to prospective policyholders
concerning the best way in which life
assurance needs may be met."
When someone’s counting on you ...
you can count on
The National Mutual
PROVISION FOR your retirement education
of your children the support of your family
should you die perpetuation of your family
business conservation of your estate against
the inroads of death duties
For these and many other financial needs there
is always a suitable National Mutual policy on
which you can count.
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA
VICTORIA:
395 Collins Street; Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
293 Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA :v
81 St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
350 George Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
9 i King William Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA:
I 1 9 jVlacquarie Street, Hobart.
T ; ;y\
NEW ZEALAND:
Custom House Quay,
Leader in Life Assurance since 1869
SERVICE
DEPARTMENT.
Wants
To buy copy of Alone, by Admiral
8yrd.—6467.
To buy Hilarities, by Hal Eyre. —
6468.
To buy Drawn from Life, by Stella
80wen.—6469.
To buy Phantom Paradise, by
Josephine Niau. —6470.
To buy hand-operated machine foi
removing hulls from coffee-beans.—
6471.
To buy An Outback Marriage and
Three Elephant Power and Other
Stories, both by “Banjo” Paterson.
—6472.
Information Sought
1 recall reading, I think, that a
palace of the Biblical Herod the Great
was recently unearthed? If so, some
details ?
In 1955 the Israel Department of
Antiquities announced the discovery
of one of Herod’s palace fortresses,
unearthed from beneath 3ft. of sand
and rubble on the north side of an
isolated rock 900 ft. high at Masada,
on the south-west shores of the Dead
Sea. It was built ixj magnificent style,
some of the features identifying it
being the Corinthian and lonic
columns, which correspond to the
contemporary descriptions of the
fortress given by Josephus. Of three
tiers, with the different levels linked
by protected stairways and secret
passages, the palace contained the
earliest mosaics yet uncovered in
Israel. Its strategic position suppqrts
the belief that it was intended to be
a stronghold, for Herod built or
rebuilt many fortresses on the Judean
frontier to check the raids of Arabs.
But Herod apparently never had to
use this palace as a fortress. How-
ever, in a.d. 73, more than 70 years
after Herod’s death, its defences were
tested; it was the last stronghold of
the Jews to fall to the Romans.
* * * *
Brief particulars of the member of
the Durack family who died in recent
years, described as the last survivor
of the overland droving feat of the
’eighties ?
This was Jeremiah Bryce Durack,
last survivor of the Durack brothers
who pioneered in N.S.W., Q., W.A.
and S.A. He died in August, 1952,
aged 93. Born in 1859 at Goulburn
(N.S.W.), he and his elder brothers
John and Thomas in 1874 left
Burrawa (Q.), where his parents had
settled, the trio aiming to develop
stations along the Castlereagh.
Drought ruining these ventures, the
brothers decided to move to W.A.,
following optimistic reports from
Alex Forrest and their cousin
Michael. The famous cattle-drive,
described as the greatest droving feat
of all time, followed (1883 to 1885)
7500 head of cattle were moved from
Cooper’s Creek (Q.) to the Ord River
(north-west W.A.), 3000 miles, in
1\ years. J.B. settled with his
brothers on Lissadell station in the
Kimberleys; he had a hand 'also in
mining at Hall’s Creek and on the
Murchison field. He left the north-
west in 1907, and went in for mi£ed
farming at Wickepin and at Harvey
(W.A.).
Brief Answers
Hamilton: Write to the Australian
Society of Accountants, 37 Queen-
street, Melbourne Jackeroo :
(From A. L. H. Scott, Secretary,
Department of Technical Education,
Broadway, Sydney.) (1) There are
available a range of correspondence-
courses in rural subjects. These are:
Agriculture; Bee-keeping; Care of
Animals; Dairy Technology; Dairy-
farming; Pig - raising; Poultry-
farming; Sheep and Wool Classing;
Farm Management and. Farm
Economics; farm Mechanics; Farm
and Station Bookkeeping; Wood
Technology. Aipong these, there are,
you will agree, a number which are
appropriate for a person working on
a grazing-property. If you are
interested in undertaking any of
them, you should make applica-
tion to the officer-in-charge of the
correspondence-teaching division of
this department. For most of the
courses the fee is £2 10s. for the
course or for two years’ tuition, which-
ever is the shorter. The fee for the
full course on Sheep and Wool Class-
ing is £5. (2) As regards books which
may be of use, I feel sure that you
could depend on the advice of your
correspondence-teachers. Certainly if
you intend studying these subjects, it
would be better to do it in the
organised way offered by a corres-
pondence-course J.R.1.: The verse
entitled “The Ride of Richard Illidge,”
by Mary Einnin, appeared in The
Bulletin for August 16, 1950. It is
included in Mary Finnin's book of
verse, “The Shield of Place,” to be
published by Angus and Robertson
later this year., . .V.E.L. and others:
“Bngalow,” by R. S. Porteous, will
be published by Angus and Robertson
later (probably about July) this year.


If claims for a new
jetting preparation
are confirmed by
actual practice,
crutching as protec-
tion against ‘ blowfly
may become a pre-
caution of the past.
The new preparation,
it is believed, ' will
give immunity to fly
strike for an entire
season. This, how-
ever, has yet ■ to be
proved. In the mean-
time the grazier will
still be able to reduce
fly-strike risk by con-
tinuing to use Elas-
trator Rubber Rings
for marking and tail-
ing his lambs.
Best
Mineral
Supplement
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
Os
I*'
OU-MGI
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particular! gladly supplied—
Writ, to DAVIS GELATINE: G 9O. Bo* 3SBJ.
SYONEY • G.P.O. Box 4058. MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
Box 712 P, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Box 758 K. BRISBANE
• G.P.O Box 588. PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK &. STATION AGENTS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
HORMONES AND WOOL
atOT so long back a curiosity
concerning hormones was
considered proper only in
medical gentlemen, biologists,
and the like. The march of
science has changed all that.
Now it is-hardly possible to pick
up an agricultural publication
without reading something about.
them.
As, for instance, in C.5.1.R.0.’s
“Rural Research,” which has a
report on what has been going
on at the Sheep Biology
Laboratory, Sydney, and else-
where in investigating what part
hormones play in the growth of
wool. Some details of similar
work in New Zealand, particu-
larly in regard to thyronine,
were given on this page some
time ago. But the research-team
at Prospect, headed by Dr. K. A.
Ferguson, seem to be go.ing into
all the whys and wherefores on a
broader basis.
The Pituitary-gland
It has been demonstrated that
the secretion of the pituitary-
gland is necessary for normal
wool-growth. This very small
gland at the base of the brain is
the master-gland of the endo-
crine system, and secretes at least
nine different hormones which
affect body - processes v either
directly, or indirectly through
stimulation of secretion by other
endocrine glands.
When the pituitary-gland was
removed from sheep, wool-
growth dropped to a very low
level. It could be restored by
injecting anterior- pituitary
extract daily. The crude extract
Contained a large number of
compounds, including all the
hormones so far known to be
secreted by the anterior lobe of
the pituitary.
The next stage, now in pro-
gress, is to find out what it is
in the extract that actually makes
wool grow. But the hormones of
the anterior pituitary are
extremely difficult to prepare,
free of contamination with one
another, in sufficient quantity for
testing. A good deal of pre-
liminary work had to be done
on the chemical techniques for
the analysis and separation of
proteins in mixtures, since
most of the anterior-pituitary
hormones are proteins.
When anterior - pituitary
extract or pituitary growth-
hormone (one of the hormones
secreted by the anterior pituitary)
was injected into normal sheep,
wool-growth was stimulated.
This indicates that sheep are
potentially capable of greater
wool-growth through an increase
in. pituitary-secretion and that
differences in productivity
between individual sheep could
be due to differences in secretion-
rate of pitui t a r y growth-
hormone.
But preparations of pituitary
growth-hormone which will
stimulate wool-growth in normal
sheep will not restore wool-
growth in sheep which have had
their pituitary-glands removed.
This indicates that other
pituitary-hormones are also
required for normal wool-
growth. One of these is
Sketched at Sydney Showground, on the second (wine and brandy ) day of judging the
wine and spirit entries for the Royal Easter Show, when the judges knocked-off for lunch.
Bottom row, left to right, R.A.S. Councillor Geoff Whiddon, Metropolitan Police
Superintendent George Smith, J. C. M. Fornachon, from the W aite Institute, Adelaide,
one of the four judges, and R.A.S. Registrar Hanlon. Top, Canadian visitor P. Curran, of
British United Press, and J. M. Guinand, judge, also from Adelaide. Results will be
announced on April 4, the week before the Show opens.
probably thyrotrophic hormone,
which controls the secretion of
thyroxine.
The Thyroid-gland
Thyroxine, a hormone secreted
by the thyroid-glands, also affects
wool-growth. Many years ago it
was shown that removal of the
thyroids markedly slows the
wool-growth of sheep at pasture.
This effect was confirmed with
sheep in pens, and it was shown
that the depression of wool-
growth was not merely due to a
reduced appetite. Wool-growth
was reduced to about half the
normal rate.
These results demonstrate that
the thyroid-glands are necessary,
but do not indicate whether
sufficient thyroxine is secreted
under normal conditions for
maximum wool-growth.' To
answer this question, adult ewes
were given doses of thyroxine
ranging from the estimated
normal-secretion rate to 16 times
this atnount.
At a dose-rate of thyroxine
estimated to be equal to the
normal-secretion rate there was
no increase in wool-growth.
At higher dose-rates wool-
growth progressively increased,
accompanied by a progressive
increase in metabolic rate and
food-consumption and a pro-
gressive decrease in body-weight.
These results are of interest
from the viewpoint of the
suggested commercial use of
thyroxine to increase wool-
production. Experiments have
been carried out in America
using iodinated casein as the
source of thyroxine. More
recently, New Zealand workers
have suggested the implantation
of thyroxine-tablets as a means
of increasing wool-growth.
The results of experiments by
Dr. Ferguson’s group are not
encouraging. In the present
experiment it was found that at
the higher dose-levels of
thyroxine wool-growth was
increased by 40 per cent, but
sheep died from hyperthyroidism
within a few weeks.
At 1 ower dose-levels the
increase in wool-growth was
offset by the increase in food-
consumption and loss of body-
weight,'so that the efficiency of
wool-growth of the treated ewes
was less than that of the control-
sheep.
In other words, wool-
production- per acre might
actually be less with thyroxine-
treated sheep.
In laboratory animals, con-
tinued dosage with thyroxine
has been reported to shorten
the life .of the animal. Thus, the
possible adverse effects of
thyroxine on lifetime produc-
tivity must also be considered.
Further possible disadvantages of
thyroxine treatment are impair--
ment of heat-tolerance and
reproduction.
“Certainly, on the evidence
at present available, the com-
mercial use of thyroxine to
increase wool-production cannot
be recommended.” '
The thyroid has been found
to have a marked effect on
the development of wool-
producing follicles in the skin of
the young lamb. Although it is
well recognised that the thyroid-
gland plays an important part in
the growth and development of
the animal body in general, its
important role in maturation of
the so-called ‘'secondary fol-
licles” after birth was previously
unknown.
The follicles developed
normally in thyroidectomised
lambs that were given thyroxine.
The results showed that more
thyroxine is required for normal
development of wool-follicles
than is required for body-growth
in general. It is possible that
conditions exist in practice under
which thyroxine-secretion is in-
sufficient for full follicle-develop-
ment.
In the trials at Prospect,
retardation of follicle-develop-
ment during 11 weeks in which
lambs were thyroid-deficient was
overcome subsequently by
several months of thyroxine
injections ; however, it is possible
that a more prolonged period
of thyroid-deficiency could lead
to a permanent loss of secondary
follicles. Such a loss might
permanently impair the wool-
producing potential of the
sheep.
One of the conditions \frhich
might impair thyroid-secretion is
poor post-natal nutrition.
It is known that follicle-
development in lambs fed on a
restricted diet is delayed, and this
could be due, in part at least,
to a resultant lowering of thyroid
activity.
Adrenal Cortex
Hormones of the adrenal
cortex depress wool-growth. The
adrenal-glands are situated in
front of the kidneys and consist
of two parts, an outer cortex
and an inner medulla. The
SQpretion of the cortex is con-
trolled by adrenocorticotrophic
hormone which is secreted by
the anterior pituitary-gland.
In experiments at Prospect,
growth of wool on t\vo sheep
was completely stopped by daily
injections of adrenocortico-
trophic hormone, while on two
others wool-growth was slowed
very appreciably.
Wool-growth was similarly
suppressed when cortisone,
which is very similar to one of
the hormones secreted by the
adrenal cortex, was given intra-
muscularly for eight weeks.
In all the treated sheep, wool
began to grow again a few weeks
after the injections were stopped.
Coinciding with the resumption
of wool-growth there appeared
a “break” in the wool just above
the skin..
In a further experiment, an
ointment containing a compound
similar to cortisone (9a-fluoro-
hydrocortisone) was smeared on
"a patch of skin. Wool-growth
was suppressed on this area, just
as it had been over the whole
body, by injecting the hormone
intramuscularly. So it seems
that this class of hormone sup-
presses wool-growth by acting
directly on the wool-producing
follicles.
Results of these experiments
suggest that a temporary over-
activity of the adrenal cortex
may be responsible for the
occurrence under grazing of such
wool-faults as “tenderness” and
“break.”
Disease, cold, pregnancy, and
similar stresses are known to
stimulate the adrenal cortex of
other animals. It has been
observed that “break” or “tender-
ness” in wool under field-
conditions is associated with
disease, advanced pregnancy, or
environmental stresses which
might be expected to stimulate
secretion of adrenocorticotrophic
hormone.
The decline in rate of wool-
growth during pregnancy might
also be due to increased adrenal
activity.
Pasture Pests
“Larra”: Cockchafer-grubs
and the red-legged earth-mite
are controlled far more easily
at this time of the year, when
insecticides can be put on with
the super, as topdressing, than
later.
Doing the two jobs in the one
operation is far more pleasant
and effective than the old, messy
method of trying to stop the
mite by spreading a boundary-
layer of creosote around a
pasture.
Cockchafers are stopped by
using 4oz. of lindane to the
acre. The chemical is applied
best as a dust mixed with super-
phosphate—known as “lindane-
super.”—and dropped on the
pasture with a crop-spreader or
combine, rather than 'with the
spinner type of broadcaster.
Lindane can also be applied
as a low-volume spray.
When put on in the early
autumn against the young
larvae, 2oz. of lindane an acre
will do the job, but 4oz. is
needed in the winter. D.D.T.
will also control cockchafers,
but at 21b. an acre it’s more
costly than 4oz. of lindane.
The latter is effective also
against the red-legged earth-
mite, if applied within two or
three weeks of the first rains in
late April or early May.
Lindane-super, is more efficient
than a D.D.T.-super. mixture at
the same cost.
However, for spraying, 4oz. of
D.D.T. an acre is more effective
than 2oz. of lindane or B.H.C.
emulsion an acre. Although
B.H.C. dispersible powders are
cheaper than the emulsion, they
are not as satisfactory to use in
low-volume boom-sprays: they
to block the jets.
Unsfacked Hay
“Winged”: Leaving baled hay
in the paddock without carting
it in certainly saves two-way
trips (to the stack ; then back
to the paddock when the sheep
want it, perhaps a few weeks
later), but it is a bad policy.
The few pence spent in
protecting hay, even temporarily,
are well 'repaid by its quality
and safety to stock. One rain-
storm is enough to cause hay to
deteriorate, and a wet week or
two can transform it into a
rotten mass which can go mouldy
and cause fatal botulism to
sheep. Hay which costs at least
2s. a bale is worth the extra
money for protection.
In addition, a bale lying in the
paddock prevents at least 3 sq.-ft.
of grass from growing.
Graziers who want an easy
'way of feeding hay to sheep


o
m
9S
"Si
ro
«> \
fcs-£/f C 3
t?
CrX
“X
;/iT^
M.-L/ *
1899 and all that
Having come into possession of the historic 1899 Singer Power.* Wheel, its somewhat
adventuresome modern-day owner was eager to test it out on the road.
But first there was this problem.- what kind of lubricant was needed for the lf-h.p.,
four-stroke engine incorporated in the rear wheel? And so he wrote to the makers of
Castrol, seeking expert advice. * .
To obtain full details of the vintage vehicle, Castrol Headquarters found it necessary to
obtain a copy of the original patent. This, together with notes made on a similar
machine at the British Science Museum, enabled a specification of the exact grade of
Castrol needed to lubricate and protect the precious Power Wheel to be made.
The point is, of course, that when information is wanted about lubrication the specialists
are the logical people to ask. It is equally logical that Castrol motor oil, the product of
specialists in lubrication, is the best oil for your car.
ue
Ifocece on* (JJc
Site
m
would be better off to cut
portions of their paddocks when
the grass is green, and leave the
loose grass lying on the ground
instead of baling it. Loose hay
certainly deteriorates in bad
weather, but it doesn’t cost much
in the first place.
A better, and only . slightly
more expensive, method is to
sweep the hay into big cocks and
leave them in the paddock. As
such cocks shed the rain remark-
ably well, they don’t deteriorate
much. And they are ready in
the paddocks for the sheep to
nibble at when they want them.
A third cheap way of feed-
ing in the paddock is to make a
bun-stack of silage and open the
gate into it when the sheep are
hungry enough to eat it “cafe-
teria”-fashion.
Despite all these short-cuts to
autumn-feeding, carting bales
into the hayshed as soon as they
are made and carting them back
to where they are wanted as soon
as they are wanted is still hard
to beat.
Kaiiter's Plough
“M.”: About two years ago
H. J. Kauter, of Kuyura, on the
Darling Downs (Q.), designed a
chisel-plough which, he claimed,
would revolutionise farming. He
had it built to his order by a
Dalby engineering-firm, and
trials showed that it would work
an acre of land in three minutes.
Measuring 52ft. in width, it is
claimed to be the largest in the
world, and combines the jobs of
disk- and mouldboard-ploughs
and scarifiers. It can penetrate
the hard black soil where, it is
claimed, other implements can’t.
The manufacturers of the
plough recently had an order
from a Houston (Texas, U.S.A.)
farmer for a similar machine, to
measure 58ft., delivery as soon
as possible. The American had
seen the implement at work
during a visit to the Downs.
Stabilising Sandhills
“Sundowner”: Conclusions
important to big areas of Vic-
toria and S.A., but applicable
also to all lqw-rainfall country
in southern Australia, have come
from a decade of trials in the
Murray Mallee district (S.A.)
into stabilisation of sandhills.
It’s important to prepare the
drift-area before attempting to
seed it. Then sow cereal-rye at
not less than 401 b. an acre. Use
lewt. of 3:1 super.-ammonia to
promote early growth.
Sow early, from mid-April to
the end of May, in wet soil, using
a combine with the cultivating-
tynes removed. Re-sow the
following year any areas not
effectively covered. Fence out
any large hills.
The long ridges present a big
problem; These, originally
covered with scrub, then cleared
and farmed by early settlers,
have been , stripped by past
droughts and poor farming. The
essential here is to see that these
exposed faces are gradually given
a vegetative cover.
To do this it may be necessary
to break-down the “cliffs” of
sand, limestone and clay so
that machinery can, negotiate
them. Where it is available, a
bulldozer mounted on a wheel-
tractor will do the job.
But on deep-sided blowouts
these implements may not be
successful. Ideal tool here is a
blade mounted on a crawler-
tractor.
Areas of piled-up sand also
presents difficulty, as they must
be levelled before seeding. How-
ever, if the dune is seeded-up
both sides as far as possible, the
movement of sand is restricted
to the top.
Sand blown from the peak
lodges in the stubble below, and
the top gradually rounds-off. This
may take up to three years, but
the time-factor is the only draw-
back. The method is effective
and cheap.
In all such instances, stock
shouldn’t be put on the country
during the rehabilitation period.
This applies particularly during
the summer, when the sand is
loose and dry.
For*country above the 12in.-
rainfall level, more sulphate-of-
ammonia should be used.
Longhorn-beetle
“Dorian”: The longhorn-
beetle (Hylotrupes bajulus ) is
causing concern to Australian
timber-users.
First recorded outbreak
occurred in 1952 at Brisbane,
when the roof-timbers of a
dwelling were attacked. This
wood was part of a consignment
from France. Later, a house at
Collaroy, Sydney, was found to
be infested. Quarantine-
authorities enveloped the house
in polyvinyl-sheeting and for 24
hours pumped in methyl-bromide
at a concentration of 41b. per
1000 cub.-ft. This proved com-
pletely successful.
Hylotrupes is an Australian
member of a European family,
and normally eats unthrifty or
dying trees, and logs which lie
rotting on the forest floor.
Recently, however, he has
changed his diet: he now seems
to prefer seasoned softwood-
timbers, and is also partial to
conifer sapwood.
The longhorn has a long
larval life, tunnels almost con-
tinuously, and reproduces -fast.
Its presence can be noted by oval
emergence-holes, as distinct from
circular ones for borers.
Judging by infestations in
other countries, the two cases
mentioned aren’t isolated out-
breaks. It’s expected that the
beetle will, in time, rival the
white-ant in popularity. Up to
timbermen to clamp-down on
him now.
Aftermath
“Boneo”: One of the most
overrated types of pasture is
aftermath the new growth
which comes up after grass has
been' cut for hay, or merely
grazed. \
Every year, f o dd er-
conservators put a high value on
the aftermath growth where
paddocks have been cut for
silage. “The aftermath increases
the amount of grazing from a
paddock—one of the virtues of
cutting silage,” is a typical
comment.
But there is at least one good
reason ndly .aftermath shouldnh
bp crazed • it weakens the
nature al a criticJ stage of ite
growth All plants make their
at S thefexpense
of the roots, whether the latter
be fibrous or more-definite plant-
food storages, as in the bracken-
fern
Tt’ ic nnlv after* orates hnd
clovers have reached the sttge
tKSTht
leaves helps to manufacture feed
frnm thp air to nut back into
the roots and strengthen the
whole organism, that animals
should be allowed to graze‘them
a „ a j n *
For this reason it’s good
management to have a back-wire
as well as a front-wire when
strip-grazing a pasture. Without
the former, stock will graze the
tender aftermath and ultimately
weaken the stand.
Rotational grazing is tlie
Rotational • grazing is tne
better practice, because it
guarantees nrotection of the
ffterrnmh Pr ° teCtl ° n 01
; ;
Aerial Firefighting
“Billjim”: Judging by N.Z.
trials, aerial firefighting holds
as much promise as aerial top-
dressing at a comparable stage
of development.
The trials showed that 200 gals.
of water could be “bombed” at
a fire in two seconds, compared
with a delivery of 6igals. a
second from a big fire-engine.
The effect of such a “bombard-
ment” on any deep-seated fire is
overwhelming, it is claimed; and
it can be delivered as frequently
as the numbers of aircraft in the
organisation permits, and in
density according to the height
flown. .
During the tests, first runs
revealed that the slipstream had
a paramount influence on spread,
even when the water was
jettisoned. Several flights at
heights of 15ft. to 50ft. were
made across two rows of 15 rain-
gauges sft. apart. This con-
firmed that the pattern of spread
was a thoroughly saturated piece
of grass 20ft. wide and 200 ft.
long.
Then straw was spread over
the area and ignited. Except
where dense heaps of straw were
placed, the fire was put out.
However, it re-kindled slowly
from the thick straw not com-
pletely wetted, and therefore left
smouldering. Rate of applica-
tion was 400gals:' an acre.
Then followed simulated
scrub- and forest-fires, and the
results were encouraging. An
application equivalent to 0.15 in.
of rain was applied and effec-
tively extinguished the scrub fire.
However, it was not sufficient to
douse the embers on the under-
sides of thick branches, though
burning here, too, was reduced
to smouldering.
In such instances, it would be
necessary to make follow-up
runs of one or two applications
at not more than one-minute
intervals, to block any rapid
re-kindling of logs or brushwood.
Mineral-deficient
Fruit-trees
. “Big Billy”: Research by the
Vic. Department of Agriculture
reveals mineral-deficiencies, and
particularly of iron, in orchard
lands in the Mallee and
Wimmera.
Lack, of iron in north-west
irrigation-areas seems to be one
of the major obstacles to expan-
sion of fruitgrowing, as soils
suitable for vines may prove
unsuitable for the successful
growth of fruit-trees, with less
tolerance to lime.
Injecting salt into tree-trunks
has been found to be an effec-
tive treatment in many, but not
all, cases of iron-deficiency, but
these injections may have to be
repeated every year.
Heavy applications of ferti-
liser containing superphosphate
increased the severity of the
lime-induced chlorosis; sulphate-
of-ammonia alone improved the
appearance of affected trees,
but didn’t cure them.
Allowing weeds to grow
during summer greatly reduced
the amount of chlorosis. But
this would choke-up the irriga-
tion-canals, thus causing the
trees to suffer from shortage of
water. 1
A stand of lucerne among
the trees cured them of the
disease. But here again, in most
of the Murray settlements,
length of time between irriga-
tions rules out this practice.
But, all the same, it points a
way. If management-difficulties
can s be overcome, the growing
of a permanent sward in the
orchard may well give complete
control of chlorosis. One of
the problems yet to be handled
is the appearance of nitrogen-
deficiency symptoms when
orchards are sown-down to
pasture.
Dosage of iron-salts used in
the experiments was one gram
to a main limb (lin. or 2in. in
diameter).
Other deficiency-deases, such
as leaf-mottling caused by a
lack of zinc, can be dealt with
by a zinc-manganese spray.
Dying of young twigs caused by
a copper-deficiency can be
treated with the well-known
bordeaux-mixture spray at bud-
burst or on the foliage.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(17/2/’57)
General rains likely in Queensland during Maifch,
probably leading to widespread flooding. . Good rains in
April, with further heavy falls on the north and south coasts.
There is a likelihood of a cyclone developing off the central
coast and traversing s.-e. Queensland in the period at the
end of March and beginning of April.
N.S.W. should get general rains during March, followed
by good rains in April and May. These rains may be
heaviest on the coastal areas, with the likelihood of severe
flooding on the north coast during May.
Reasonably good rains are likely in Victoria during
March, with good falls in the Mallee. Rainfall should vary
from light to moderate in the Wimmera, western division
and Gippsland.
S.A. should receive general rains in March, with the
heaviest rains in the upper north. The Territory and
Central Australia should also get heavy rains.
Western Australia should receive heavy rains in the
Kimberleys and north-west during March, with good falls
in the West Gascoyne and on part of the? south coast.
Balance of the State poor.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
High Cost of Broadcasting
After reading M. F. Dixon’s comment,
on the high cost of broadcasting (B.
23/1 / ’57) I' visited the A.B.C. and the
three commercial stations in one capital
city.
The reason for A.B.C. expenditure is
overstaffing. A careful appraisal showed
the A.B.C. could staff the city’s other
stations and have enough staff left over
to mind its own business.
The manager has three secretaries for
a start. So has the studio-supervisor.
The news-editor has two. His chief-of-
staff and sub-editors have one each. Six
reporters were flogging typewriters. Their
source of news for the five-minutes State
sessions appeared to be the papers, with
variations gleaned over the telephone.
I went down a long corridor with an
imposing array of door-plates: pro-
gramme-director, programme-executive,
and a couple of assistants each with a
secretary. Opposite was a well-staffed
typists’ pool marked “Programme Dept.”
The “youth-education” branch was big
enough to run a secondary school. I
counted 11 in the record-library. A
group in the transcription-section were
chuckling over a run-through of a 8.8. C.
recording.
Also belonging to the same lavish
outfit I found a director of music and
an assistant-director, each with his staff;
a music-library director and his staff.
Other suites of offices housed a rural
department, a publicity branch ; a concert
set-up with a director and deputy and
quite a crowd. s
The drama staff were chatting brightly
over a cuppa at 9.20 a.m.
Understaffed by comparison were the
variety and sporting services and the
accountant’s branch. ; The latter was
working flat-out.
A couple of doors marked the location
of the permanent conductor of the
orchestra and choir.
Twelve per cent, of this day’s pro-
gramme was produced locally, the re-
mainder was by inter-State relay.—
S.C.F. (N.T.),
Subsistence Economy %
The suggestion in Professor
Lodewyckx’s book (B. 23/l/’57) that
mixed or subsistence farming should be
developed in Australia is sound farming
reasoning and sound economy,
i Linked with the old cry of “Populate
or perish” we now hear “Export or die,”
but I am not fully convinced,
i- Some years ago, investigation by the
United States Agricultural Bureau proved
conclusively that the “mixed” or “sub-
sistence” farm gave" its owners the
highest standard of living.
This is the type of farm which pro-
duces, or attempts to produce, everything
for its own use. Eggs from its own fowls,
feed for its own fowls; milk, butter and
cream from its own cows, feed for its own
cows ; its own beef, mutton and pork, and
feed for those animalsand its own
vegetables and fruit.
The investigators found that farmers
who specialised in the production of one
crop, for sale, were almost invariably
living on a lower level than those who
produced for themselves first —and sold
any surplus. ,
With modern farming implements it is
almost as easy to grow an acre of crop
as to mess about in a 24-perch allot-
ment trying to grow the household vege-
tables, and, accordingly, the
“subsistence” farmers usu-
ally had a sizeable surplus
to sell.
If one of their crops was
attacked by insects' or
disease, another crop usu-
ally pulled through quite
successfully, and they
stood little chance of being
'“wiped-out,” as did farmers
relying on one crop.
In Oklahoma before the
war, large-scale commer-
cial farming was the pre-
vailing form one-crop
farms, that is—and Okla-
homa ended-up as the
heart of the U.S. “dust-
bowl.”
Australia could learn
from this investigation.
We are far too much Von
the sheep’s back and our
prosperity is too dependent upon
good prices for wool and the
lucky chance that, so far, no syn-
thetic has been found to match the
qualities of wool.
With our growing population, we must
get rid of the “export-or-die” complex.
The extra population gives us an oppor-
tunity of throwing off the colonial atti-
tude which sees this country as a pro-
ducer of primary products for the benefit
of the mother country.
We should recast our attitude towards
production—slant it towards producing
everything possible for home-consump-
tion and exporting only the surplus. Any
such surplus—wheat t wool, Holden cars
—could be exported at whatever prices
were obtainable.
If we concentrate on subsistence pro-
duction, our export surpluses would
automatically, come into being, but if
they were wiped out by a drought or by
a fall in world-markets, we would hardly
suffer at all. — Woe Wun (Q.),
Wilcannia Long Dam
“P.C.M.” (B. 19/12/’56) says that
power developed at a hydroelectric-plant
operating with a head of 200 ft. would be
a pup compared with the head at Kiewa
(Vic.). Well, Niagara Falls, the greatest
hydroelectric site in the world, is a pup
if 200 ft. head is the qualification.
The total potential of Niagara is six-
million h.p., and nearly two-thirds of this
power is utilised in the Canadian and
American plants below the falls, the
remaining water being allowed to run
over the falls to preserve its scenic attrac-
tion. The actual height of the falls is 150
to 175 ft., but the plants operate at a some-
what greater head, as they are situated
farther downstream than the actual foot
of the falls. Incidentally, the total power
envisaged in the Snowy Mountains
scheme is roughly the same as that
developed at Niagara.
Water-power depends on volume of
water as well as height of head, and surely
a river the size of the Darling, suitably
regulated and fed through a 200 ft. head,
/
“Morning pa-per!”
would develop more power than any of
the individual Snowy Mountain schemes.
In my letter about the Wilcannia Long
Dam (B. 7/11/’56) I suggested that, as
Britain and the U.S.A. had decided not
to finance the Aswan High Dam, then
perhaps they would be interested in
financing the Wilcannia Long Dam in
the undeveloped areas of Australia. After
all, Australia is far more deserving of aid
than Egypt.
Briefly the Wilcannia Long Dam pro-
posal was this: A few miles upstream
from Wilcannia the Darling flood-plain
“I Wanted mink!”
narrows between the 200-metre (660 ft.)
contours, and a 25-mile-lOng dam between
the contours would effectively back-up
the Darling floods into an inland sea
covering thousands of square miles.
As an illustration of such long dams,
I mentioned the Zuider Zee dyke (over 20
miles long) and the five-mile-long dam at
Laredo on the Rio Grande between
Texas and Mexico. Since I wrote that
letter the Hiraknd Dam in India has
been officially opened. This is 16 miles
long and approaches in magnitude the
Wilcannia proposal. I quote from the
London “Economist” of 2/2/’57:
“This dam consists of a three-mile-long
main concrete structure astride the river
with 13 miles of earthen embankments
abutting the main darn. The river
Mahanadi, which has hitherto periodic-
ally ravaged Orissa with its violent
floods, will spread out into a lake of 300
square-miles behind the 16-mile-long
dam. A total of 2,500,000 acres will be
irrigated by the’ now-tamed river, and
about half of this area will be directly
below the dam. Hydroelectric plants
associated with the dam are to be installed
with a capacity of 200,000 kilowatts, and
industries such as aluminium plants are
to be built in the vicinity of the dam to
use the power produced.”
The cost of the entire scheme, pre-
sumably including the irrigation-works, is
estimated to reach £A92 million.
On|y by a scheme of greater magnitude
will the Darling be harnessed, and it seems
now that the proposal is not quite so
fantastic after all. —A, Austen (York,
England).
Those Gars
Incastigating Devonport (Tas.) wharfies
for refusing to unload (and preventing
the ship’s crew from unloading) motor-
cars brought across by tourists in the
Taroona on Christmas Day, “E. & 0.E.”
(B. 23/1/’57) omitted some of the
facts.
Embittered passengers said they had
been definitely assured by the ship’s
agents before leaving that the cars would
be unloaded on arrival; but long before
this, in talks between shipping companies
and the W.W.F. at Devonport, it was
agreed that watersiders would not be
asked to work on Christmas Day. Copies
of the agreement were in possession of
the parties.
The steamship company concerned did
ask the secretary of the Devonport
W.W.F. for men on Christmas Day to
unload cars, but was referred to the
agreement. They also asked
that official to tell the ship’s
master that the branch
would have no objection to
the crew unloading. They
were told that this was not
the concern of the branch
and, subsequently, the sea-
men said they would not dis-
charge the cars.
The unfortunate travellers
waiting for their cars, and
without accommodation for
themselves, seem to have re-
ceived little consideration
from the steamship company,
and strongly-worded letters
appeared in the press.
Fm not holding a brief for
the W.W.F., but the actual position
should be known.-—Devon (Tas.).
Standing and Staring
It is in the hands of every man to see
that his retirement is not a “death-
sentence” or a paralysing anticlimax to
a bu&y life (B. 30/1 /’57).
There are many who continue to work
far beyond a reasonable retiring-age,
simply because they have no personal
resource except in the work they have
done since youth. In other words, they
are afraid to knock-off. They have not
prepared themselves for the important
function of continuing a 1 useful and
happy existence when the business of
making a living and rearing a family has
ended.
The solution is an absorbing hobby
which contributes to well-being and con-
tentment. Surely this is a; vital enough
matter to have a man’s serious attention
early in life, when he can learn the art
of using his leisure by developing some
mental and/or physical relaxation which
will ease the stress of his working years
and then enrich his old-age.
The choice of a hobby is purely an
individual concern. 'Whether it be car-
pentry, music, gardening or fishing, both
mind and body will benefit from the
satisfaction of hours well spent. — Arthur
Falk (Vic.).
“The British Migrant”
“Ray d’O.” (B. 13/2/’57) talks about
migrants not being prepared to carve out
a home in the bush and live like their
forefathers did. If they did try they
would very quickly be ordered off for
trespassing. Since it takes about £14,000
to establish a soldier-settler on his farm,
obviously very few migrants are able
to go on the land. I. wish I could havtf'
made a few thousand as easily as “Ray
d’O.” suggests.
There are three main reasons why
British migrants go back:
The unreasoning dislike of newcomers
shown by a good half of the Australian
people. Every migrant I know has
experienced it. and the correspondence-
columns of the two Sydney evening-
papers provide further evidence.
Good cheap housing for rent does not
exist. Enough houses have been built
since the end of the war to take care of
the marriage-rate, but not to house the
million-or-so migrants or the 100,000
Australians who needed houses at the
end of the war. There was no bombing
here, and the war ended 12 years ago, yet
it is impossible to rent a house and it
is difficult to get credit to buy one.
The high cost of living in Australia
is not matched by increased wages. No
matter what statistics say, my pay has
doubled in the last nine years, whereas
prices have trebled. You can get a
TV-set (Min.) for around 60gns. in
Great Britain ; here the cheapest costs
about £220.
A few compensations include some
very nice people and a mild climate; and
drink, both Australian and imported, is
comparatively ch e a p.— Harryalf
(N.S.W.).
If Australia was all it is cracked-up to
be, there would now be 25-million people
here instead of 10-million. —H. S. C.
(N.S.W.).
My friends include many who have
come to this country and shown just as
much pioneering spirit as their fore-
fathers.
Possibly the biggest heartbreak comes
to some who go oh the land. A person
working in a routine job in a crowded
English city looks enviously at anyone


who owns land. By tradition, it represents
wealth and social position in the com-
munity. The notion of the “English
squire” is not altogether dead yet.
They are rudely awakened when they
settle on the land here ; unless they can
buy a farm, they finish-up as farm-
laborers. If they sink their money into
a block they find the employment of
labor beyond them and nothing but hard
work in front.
Hundreds have become successful
farmers despite this, but many found the
land too much for them. Still, that’s not
surprising. Take the average Australian
city worker and put him on the land in
a strange country and see what happens.
The introduction of migrants to any
country poses big problems. Many fail
to make the grade and they are the ones
Who make the most noise. The ones who
stay and are successful are the ones
that count. A country like Australia
can’t get too many of them. — Agricola
(Q-).
“Ray d’O.” expects too much —not
even our own “young adventurers” are
prepared to do much pioneering these
days. They prefer the big cities with all
mod. cons.
The British migrant is not encouraged
to think that pioneering is necessary in
modern Australia. He is told it is a
land of opportunity, and so it is for some.
On arrival here, however, the picture is
not quite so pretty, particularly if life in
a hostel for his family comes into it.
In his efforts to settle down he meets
many unexpected hurdles. He can’t rent
a home or buy one very easily—housing-
commission homes are snapped up by
people listed for years and priorities for
ex-Service applicants leave little for the
migrant.
His only chance is to buy a block on
which to build —that will cost several
hundred pounds—and face a load of
indebtedness for the next 20 years.
In this land of opportunity he finds
his pay-packet buys little, if any, more
than the pay he has left behind him. He
finds that the majority of the amenities
and household gadgets are the proceeds
of indulgence in hire-purchase or time-
payment. He meets people who are per-
petually in debt.
He will appreciate the sun, fresh air
and coastal beaches—-about the only
things that are free in this country. His
children may enjoy free education, but
even that costs money—a lot of it if
uniforms, books, travelling and other
expenses are incurred.
But “Ray d’O.” should have glanced
at where experts, tradesmen and
technicians from the countries of the
West are helping in the drive for Aus-
tralian industry.— Shellback (N.S.W.).
Road Safety
“Harry the Horse” (B. 23/l/’57) has a
good point in suggesting that an energetic
constable be stationed outside the front-
door of a pub, but it could no longer be
one “catering for so-called bona fide
travellers,” because in Victoria that is a
thing of the past. The hotels can no
longer sell liquor outside regular trading-
hours to the man who has travelled 20
miles.
“Harry” is also right in thinking that
we already have plenty of legislation.
There is, in fact, too much of it, and it
needs pruning. Very few drivers know
all the regulations they are supposed “to
observe, and a recent quiz showed a
woeful lack of knowledge on several
important ones. That is not altogether
surprising as, apart from the regulations
and by-laws promulgated by local
councils, the following deal with the use
of vehicles (there are others dealing with
design, lighting, etc.):
Sections 29-36 of the Motor Car Act
1951.
Part IV of the Motor Car Regulations
1952.
The Road Traffic Act (Metropolitan)
Regulation 1955.
The Motor Car Act 1951 is straight-
forward, but of the two sets of regula-
tions one applies all over Victoria and
the other only in certain municipal
districts. That does not make it easy for
the law-abiding citizen.
The present Chief Secretary in Vic-
toria is well aware of the problem and
has taken the first step by creating a new
Traffic Authority with powers to deal
with it. New regulations are now being
drafted by this authority, and it is to be
hoped that they produce something that
the motorist can memorise and that the
police can enforce rigidly.
More rigid enforcement is badly
“Ah, memories, memories! The good old days—stringybark fags
behind the Woodshed !”
needed, but not of the existing regulations
—they were not designed for that. For
example, part of the regulation on
traffic-lights reads:
The color amber is a signal that:
(a) the driver of a vehicle.... shall not
cause such vehicle... .to proceed beyond
the stop mark (if any) on the approach side
of such intersection nor to enter such inter-
section until such traffic-control signal
changes so as to display the color green.
In other words, the driver must stop
bis vehicle before reaching the “stop-
mark” even if it is no more than a yard
away when the amber light appears.
I also hope that copies of the new
regulations (and any subsequent amend-
ments) will be sent to every licensed
driver as a right—something he is entitled
to for the annual fee he pays. How else
can there be any reasonable certainty that
drivers know what is expected of them?
But overhauling regulations is no more
than “clearing the site” on which to
build when it comes to road-safety.
People must be taught how to use the
roads, driving or walking, and while the
police perform a useful function in
enforcing regulations they should be con-
cerned only with those who show an
anti-social outlook by refusing to learn
the normal way.
This is not a simple problem, and there
is no simple answer. I advocate teaching
sound methods of driving —particularly
the “Hendon System,” which has proved
itself —and it takes time to reach 500,000
drivers. I also advocate surveying the
scenes of frequent accidents to determine
whether safety-works are called for, and
that, too, takes time. And there is another
long-term project in teaching road-sense
to schoolchildren. In Hampstead, Lon-
don, they have not had a child fatality
for the past 10 years, so their methods
are worth studying.
There is some truth in “T.K.III’s”
comments (B. 30/1/’57) in that we could
not expect the same improvement in Vic-
toria’s accident-rate as was acheived by
London’s Metropolitan Police with the
Hendon system. The point is that the
system is a thoroughly sound
method of driving which could be taken
up with beneficial results by the motorists
who are willing to learn, and, from 25
years’ experience of motor-insurance
claims I can assure “T.K.111” that they
comprise the great majority of drivers
involved in accidents. — Insurance (Vic.).
Tennis and Money
While I agree with “B.B.” (B.
6/2/’57) that open tennis tournaments
are inevitable, I maintain that amateur-
ism will dominate the field, in Australia
at least, for many years. Our success
in the Davis Cup isn’t just a fluke. If
we have a national sport it is tennis, not
because of the people who watch it but
because of the numbers who play it.
A vast amount of unpaid work and
enthusiasm is involved.
For nearly 20 years I played A-grade
competitive tennis in one of Sydney’s
stronger associations. Hundreds of
matches in all grades were played at
weekends, and registered competitors ran
into thousands. Thousands more played
“social” tennis.
“B.B.” deduces that “we won’t pay to
see second-best” because Kramer’s
troupe, consisting of the world’s best
players, grossed £15,000 in a few days at
Kooyong, while the Australian cham-
pionships which followed immediately
were a financial flop. Maybe the Mel-
bourne public had had a surfeit of tennis.
In any case Kramer’s “take” wasn’t
much more than chickenfeed compared
with the proceeds of the Davis Cup.
—T. J. (N.S.W.).
Green Belts
Every capital city in Australia, as well
as some of our growing industrial towns,
should study the lesson of Cleveland,
U.S.A. This great industrial city grew
with no thought of parks and recreation-
areas, and the day came when it rea-
lised that it offered fewer amenities than
any other city on earth. There was just
nowhere to go for an open-air outing.
The late Dr. Arthur Williams was the
leader of a movement to give Cleveland
an outer ring of parks. When once they
realised how their city fell short in this
regard, the citizens rallied to support the
move. Today Cleveland is justly proud
of what has been done, but the cost in
land-resumptions was staggering.
If action is taken in time, however, it
doesn’t cost much to establish and main-
tain an outer green-belt around a city.
A survey is made of all open areas which
are suitable. Their owners are offered a
big reduction in rates and taxes in return
for an undertaking, binding on all future
owners of the property as well, not to
allow the land to be built on, but to keep
it as an orchard, or for grazing, or as
commercial garden.
Later, when any of these properties in
the green-belt come on the market, they
don’t bring high prices. The Government
then has the chance to step in and buy
them for parks and recreation-reserves.
The only difficulty is to convince
people that this concession in the way of
low rates and taxes is recouped many
times over in years to come when the
land is bought as recreation-areas. —
Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
Queensland Hospitals
To be sick is to be deprived of earning-
power. To have to go into hospital,
where hospitals are not free, is to be
burdened with an additional financial
load just when you are least able to bear
it.
That is why the Queensland Govern-
ment’s free-hospital scheme is such a
fine scheme, irrespective of how it is
financed.
No person should be deprived of
skilled medical and nursing attention
because he is unable to pay for it.
The country as a whole loses when it
charges for hospital treatment direct to
the patient—a man who has to work for
his living and who has been unable to
save enough to pay for his treatment, and
at the same time keep his family alive,
either goes without treatment or Stops it
too soon. Either way, his working-life is
likely to be shortened.
It is commonsense that, if a specific
tax were levied to keep enough hospital-
beds available free of charge to anyone
who needed them, everyone would pay
for them, and pay at a time when he was
able to do so.
The worst thing the Federal Govern-
ment ever did was to hand over its
medical-benefits scheme to private organi-
sations. The scheme should have been
wholly Government-controlled and the
payments made compulsory for all at a
rate to ensure free hospitals throughout
the Commonwealth.-— Mutton Jeff (Q.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 423
Across
I—Bunk1 —Bunk source of the opium
rooster. (9)
5-A small numb'er leaving the
Inferno; get the implication?
(5)
8— Pop all but eight of the golf- *
course driving places who
roughly correspond with copy-
right-holders? (9)
9 Rolls where duellists fight desires.
(5)
10 —An unrestricted spoon which is
not allowed in the dining-room
of the South Australian Hotel.
(4, 4)
12—Apple-seed and a hole-marker.
(6)
14—An irregular valve turned less
warship. (5-6)
16— Can. (3)
17— A boy of five-hundred and one.
,0 (3)
18— Male gooseflesh is explained by
this spoiler of radio-voices. (4-6)
21— Indicates fieldsmen, but stop in
though battered. (6)
22 One’s mail includes a floury food.
, (8)
25 This is a Gippsland river, thanks
to the disorderly mob. (5)
26 Behold it with Queen Elizabeth
and Queen Elizabeth’s bystanders.
(9)
27 Europeans in the sedan. (5)
28— He appears in a suit, but isn’t a
fancy row. (9)
Down ,
1— Food report on foot-trouble. (7)
2 Pop the famous film-producing
studio. (5)
3 Horse-rugs often feature these
bowling-reins. (10)
4 X marks this King Island
steamer. (4)
5 Malignance from Shakspeare the
Crook. (3-4)
6 Don’t feed on the defiler relished
by pace bowlers. (4, 5)
7 Vibrant snore disturbed a six-
footer. (8)
11—Zero. (3)
13—Malodorous gum-resin like an
enemy taking it up to the district
attorney. (10)
15—Tasman was sent forth by this
vehicle to kick the bucket coves.
17 — Appointed as an agent set in the
deed. (7)
18— Cat upset five little “piggies”
with phrases from coats-oLarms
(7)
19— Yours Truly had nothing but an
offshoot of Esperanto. (3)
20— The main bulk of the range
service in church work by
Kipling. (6)
2- —Refrigerant turned in Boadicea’s
folk. (5)
24 —The pursuers don’t like to be
given this garment. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 422


“THE UNIT OF ENERGY”
nm
BATTERIES
m • Ja'i'i
AS USED BY N.S.W.
AND COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
COUNCILS AND LEADING
FLEET OWNERS, ETC.
Equipment on Radiola for
23 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR. TRUCK, TRACTOR,
RADIO, LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W. :
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD
200 Latrobe Street,
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
m Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON:
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MA6IBB (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: 86565, 84448
