

,■■■
*
i
im
e
BOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
WOOL ISSUE
Wednesday, May 29, 1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
SUDELEY CASTLE, GLOUGESTERSHIRE
NEAR (he old-fashioned market town 'of
Winchcombc, six miles north-east of Chcltcn-.
ham, in Cloucestershire, is Sudeley Castle, which
is -associated with Catherine Parr, sixth wife of
llenry VIII.
The original castle was erected in the 12th
century on the site of an older- fortress and was
entirely rebuilt by Sir Ralph le Hotelier; Baron
of Sudeley, in the time of Henry VI (li22 : 14(il)
with ransom money obtained from French
eaptives during his participation in the wars with
France. The castle was built on a grand scale,
consisting of two spacious quadrangles with high
embattled towers, a magnificent banqueting hall,
state apartments and a chapel. The Dungeon
lower was the strongest feature of the castle in
which hapless prisoners were confined.
During the turbulent days of the loth century
Sudeley was surrendered to the Crown. In the
16th century Edward V'l granted the castle to
Sir Thomas Seymour, who married Catherine Parr,
the widowed queen of Ring Henry Mil, soon
after the Ring's death in 1517'. Catherine, who
had herself been married three times previously,
came to Sudeley bringing with her the young and
ill-fated Lady Jane Crey and her stepdaughter,
Princess Elizabeth, who was destined to become
within a few years Queen of England. In 1548,
little more than a year after her marriage to
Tbonias Seymour, Catherine gave birth to a
daughter and died a few days later.
Sudeley Castle is open to the public at certain
times, and here can be seen Catherine Parr’s
Chamber and some of her possessions. Notable
picuues, tapestry, furniture and stained glass are
also on view. After his wife’s death, Seymour’s
tenure of "the castle was short-lived, for in 1549
lie was charged, with high treason, arrested and
imprisoned in the l ower of London, where iie
was later condemned and beheaded.
During the Civil Wars Sudeley was besieged
and taken by Parliamentary forces on two
occasions; the walls of the castle still. bear the
scars of their bombardment by artillery.
No. 351: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


HOOK HUNTER, Box SHU, G.1\0., Sydney.
A service tor readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction-,
text book, biography, history, etc.
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
ARTHUR UPFIELD
The biography of Arthur Upfield,
Follow My Dust! by Jessica Hawke
(Heinemann), gives the reader plain
what Mr. Upfield himself gave him
colored in tus many books about
Detective-Inspector Napoleon Bona-
parte.
And a little more. Arthur Upfield
was born at Gosport, England, to a
drapery family; he was articled to a
firm of estate-agents, and some of his
stories of rent-collecting in poorer
districts, notably the story of how he
walked into the front parlor where the
corpse was laid out, and one about how
a lady offered to pay the rent, are
well worth reading.
One way and another —here he is
not veiy explicit—he didn’t seem to fit
into his parents’ view of life; and his
father sent him to Australia “to try
farming... .It is so far away that you
will never save enough money to
return.” Arriving in Adelaide in 1910,
he ditched the letter of introduction to
a firm of stock-and-station agents, had
an application to be a boundary-rider
rejected because of his inexperience,
worked a few months on a farm,
became a kitchen-man in a first-class
Adelaide hotel with such success that
they offered to promote him to waiter,
and fled from this indignity to besiege
Mr. Laffer, of Elder Smith, with
demands to be made an honest
boundary-rider so that at last Mr.
Laffer sent him on his way to Momba
station, via Broken Hill and Wilcannia.
It is here that Miss Hawke by some
inexplicable gift of Providence achieves
the phrasing and style which makes
Mr. Upfield one of the most readable of
all writers on the Australian outback.
And here you will find many of the
scenes he has put into his detective-
stories as backgrounds.
There is the journey in a Cobb and
Co. coach from Broken Hill to
Wilcannia; the story of how a team
of 26 mules hooked to a team of 28
bullocks, failing to .drag a wool-wagon
out of the sand at a crossing, was
joined by a team of 30 camels, the
84 animals then dragging off the pole
and front wheels of the wagon; how,
alone with a girl and her mother at
an outstation, 142 miles from a doctor,
he tried to save the life of the girl,
who had taken strychnine because of
her forbidden love for, a young
aboriginal stockman; how' at various
times he patrolled State boundary-
lines, repairing rabbit- and dog-proof
fences: how he went walkabout push-
ing a bicycle holding his gear, hiding
his money in notes between tyre and
rim of the cycle; how he was treed by
a mad bull on a boundary-fence, and
how the bull’s owner suggested that
Mr. Upfield pay for the pleasure of
having shot the bull ...
These all lead up to the most impres-
sive scene of all, Wheeler’s Well, on
Albemarle Station, 25 miles from the
homestead and 25 miles from the out-
station, where a windmill raised clear
water for animals, and where there
were quarters for men proceeding on
their business around the station:
there, surrounded by sand-dunes, with
merely the responsibility of cooking
for occasional visitors, visited once a
week by a utility bringing mail and
provisions, Mr. Upfield set about
writing “The Barakee Mystery,” which
first produced Napoleon Bonaparte,
the half-caste detective. Napoleon was
inspired in that very place by a visitor,
Tracker Leon, a great reader, who left
behind him “The Last Days of
Pompeii” and a “Life of Napoleon
Bonaparte.” A Hollywood publicity-
agent or a script-writer for the life of
a famous personality couldn’t ask for
more than that.
The next great moment in Mr.
Upfield’s career is “The Sands of
Windee”—how he got the plot from
a derelict he found hanging to a
boundary-fence, a method of killing
one’s mates and burning their bodies
in fires that could be attributed to the
burning of dead kangaroos; how
Snowy Rowles used exactly the book’s
method to murder his mates Ryan,
Lloyd and Louis Carron; how Mr.
Upfield had to appear in the witness-
box at the trial ... He gratefully
acknowledges the absolutions of any
responsibility for the crimes given him
by' Detective-sergeant Manning and
General Leane, South Australian
Police Commissioner.
There follows an amusing account
of a racing-serial Mr. Sidney Deamer
persuaded him to write for the Mel-
bourne “Herald” in 1932, when,
wishing to have a horse drop dead of
dope as it came into the straight, he
was warned that Nat Gould had
already done it; whereupon it was
decided to have two horses drop dead
—if it were not expressly stated that
Mr. Upfield made 'this decision, one
would have said that it was Mr.
Deamer —one seems to recognise that
elfin touch . . .
There seems to have been a lull in
Mr. Upfield’s publishing during the
depression, from which, he says thank-
fully, he was rescued by Mr. W. G.
Cousins, of Angus and Robertson, who
published eight Napoleon Bonaparte
novels before World War 11. With the
arrival of Americans here for that war,
Upfield saw. that there would be
considerable American interest in
Australia, and persuaded Mr. Cousins
to send some of his books to the
U.S. That opened for him his greatest,
and perhaps most appreciative,
market.
A writer of detective-stories is
generally a little on the defensive
gainst critics who proclaim the purity
of the straightforward novel, and this
has set Mr. Upfield pretty stiffly up
against what he calls the “claquers,”
the Australian town - critics who
pontificate upon literary art. A move-
ment after World War II to ban over-
seas books in the interest of Australian
writing inspired his “An Author Bites
the Dust.” which he says “demolished
a house” after a debate in the
Commonwealth Parliament, August 28,
1952.
Mr. Upfield doesn’t give the facts of
the debate, so one looked it up—it was
a discussion begun by Mr. Keon and
joined by many members, the Prime
Minister taking a hand, of the
Commonwealth Literary Fund’s
alleged grants to Communists—a rather
choice few columns which, Mr.
Upfield considers, caused the reconsti-
tution of the fund’s committee. The
issues, as always when literature goes
into politics, are here a bit muddled.
And again, on the question of the
permanent value of detective-stories,
one is prepared to leave things to time
to decide. Yet Mr. Upfield, estab-
lished at Bermagui as secretary of the
anglers’ club, with only a couple of
novels to write every year, should be
able to look back with some com-
placency on some of the finest achieve-
ments of Australian prose: on, for
instance, the scene of the death of
multitudinous animals beside a drying
Centralian lake in “Death of a Lake,”
which has a rare clarity and passion
and may well last longer than much
that is now assessed above it.
The Heir From Wagga
An Australian reader cannot but
take a proper, pride in the fact that
this country has contributed two star-
performers to Richard Aldington’s
circus of Frauds (Heinemann) —
Thomas Griffiths Wainewright, the
forger and suspected poisoner, and
Arthur Orton, the butcher from Wagga
who claimed the Tichborne fortune—
though on sober reflection our claim
to them is slight, both having been
exported to us from England.
Mr. Aldington, who has somewhat
the manner of a prosecuting counsel,
takes no account of recent attempts
that have been made, not very plaus-
ibly, to whitewash Wainewright, and
depicts him, with circumstantial
accounts of his alleged poisonings,
{“Red Page” continued on page 90)


In home lighting...
CENTURY
THE FI EL
m m m m Bai iHHiI
WITH A BATTERY THATS
YEARS AHEAP OF
ANY OTHER IN AUSTRALIA
Century engineers, working closely with the greatest
battery laboratories in U.S.A., bring you this marvel-
lous new homelighling Battery.
NEW IN EVERY DETAIL—WITH NEW TECHNIQUES
—NEW CONSTRUCTION METHODS—NEW SUPER
PERFORMANCE.
LOCK AT THESE DYNAMIC FEATURES. NO OTHER BATTERY HAS THEM:
BSILVIUM —the scientific additive
which KEEPS PLATES ACTIVE
WITH MAXIMUM EFFICIENCY;
PREVENTS ‘GRID CORROSION.
ONLY CENTURY HOMELIGHT-
»NG BATTERIES CONTAIN
SILV'UM.
B TRANSPARENT POLYSTYRENE
CONTAINER . . . you can see
the acid level at a glance.
■ INBUILT GRAVITY BALL INDICA-
TORS . . . show state of charge
AT ALL TIMES. No more messy
hydrometer.
B GLASS INSULATION —gives sus-
tained power during the BAT-
TERY'S ENTIRE LIFE.
THESE ARE THE POWERFUL REASONS WHY CENTURY
BACKS THIS BATTERY WITH A BULLETPROOF
THiEI YEARS' GUARANTEE
*H
4w*rv^' ; ?p*
with SILVIUM
FOLLOW THE LEAD OF THOUSANDS OF SATISFIED GRAZIERS
AND STATION OWNERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
DEMAND THE BEST ... BUY THE BEST ... BUY CENTURY!
SILVIUM Batteries are also available for all cars, trucks, tractors, etc.
DISTRIBUTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Century Storage Battery Co., Ltd,., Birmingham St., Alexandria.
Bradley Bros., Ltd,., 55-59 & 68-72 Wentworth Ave., Sydney. Grimley Ltd., 247-253 Broadway,
Sydney. Industrial Sales & Service (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd., Parramatta Rd., Lidcombe. Motor
Traders Pty. Ltd., 70 Commonwealth St., Sydney. Advanx Tyre & Rubber Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Neild & McLachlan Ave., Rusheutters Bay. (Sydney Metropolitan Area).
LOWER RIVERINA: Motor Traders (Fie.) Pty. Ltd., 515 Kiewa St., Albury.
QUEENSLAND: P. H. Phillips Battery Supplies Pty., 123 Charlotte St., Brisbane. Plant
& Plant (Machinery ) Pty. Ltd., 323-325 Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Samuel Allen & Sons,
Ltd., Townsville. Wyper Bros. Ltd., Bundaberg. Advanx Tyre & Motor Service, 61 Sheridan
St., Cairns. Lawrence Motor Company, Bolsover St., Rockhampton. Corser & Co. Pty., Ellena
St., Maryborough. Gympie Machinery & Electrical Coy., Mary St., Gympie. Jas. Croker
Sons, Mackay.
VICTORIA: Century Storage Battery Co., Pty., Ltd., Macaulay Rd., North Melbourne.
SOUTH. AUSTRALIA: Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd. (Sole Concessionaires), 15 Ackland
St., Adelaide.
>
mm iiiiiiiii
(iiiiiikWHVfin)
These three gravity ball
indicators white, red
and green—are clearly
visible thiough the trans-
parent polystyrene con-
tainer. Their floating
position shows instantly
the Battery s state of
charge.
GET THIS FREE BOOKLEI
Post this coupon to-day to
CENTURY STORAGE BATTERY CO. LTD.,
Box 52, P.O. Alexandria, N.S.W., for your free
homelighting booklet giving complete details
of this marvellous new battery.
r/w/7
NAME
ADDRESS
CPG 100
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Attwood Motors Pty. Ltd.. 22 Stirling
St., Perth.
TASMANIA' C. G. Boag Batteries, 86 Bathurst St., Hobart; 274
Brisbane St., Launceston.
NORTH AUSTRALIA: Allen Bros (Darwin ) Pty. Ltd., Darwin.


The Bulletin
Vol. 78—No. 4033
Wednesday, May 29, 1957
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K, J. Prior
LEAD OFFICE : 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
South Australia : 64 Gawler Place. Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
SEW „ Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (apposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
UNION ILLEGALITIES
EVEN if the motives behind it are not
the purest, the reported move of
industrial-groupers in New South
Wales to test the validity of payments
to political parties by unions is a very
belated recognition of the iniquity of
this practice.
It is, in fact, the source of union
power in this country and also of
Communist-party power; if there were
no union funds in the political kitty
there would be no A.L.P. as it at
present exists, and no behind-the-scenes
Red juntas controlling politicians.
The power of the funds of unionism
is the dominating factor in Labor
politics today. And those funds aren’t
all from Labor sources, but are
collected indiscriminately and by
pressure from members of the unions
irrespective of their political beliefs.
In many trades it is impossible for a
man to work except by joining a closed
union, entrance to which is at the
option of the union junta. And he
can’t join and remain in the union
unless he meets the levies made on
him, which, as often as not, are
intended to support politically the
Communist party as well as Labor—
the A.L.P. receiving support from
some Communist-led bodies only
when it agrees to toe the United Front
line.
Thus, in order to live, thousands of
unionists are compelled to subscribe
to the support of principles opposite
to their own political views. In some
instances they are even forced, in
order to keep their families, to
support subversion and treason with
their contributions. And though they
have a legal remedy, it is so expensive
and the consequences to themselves are
likely to be so serious, and those to
the union juntas so light, that they
rarely find it worth while to take any
action. If they do they know that,
win or lose, their livelihood is
jeopardised.
The matter becomes more serious as
the years go on. Labor is moving to
the Left, and, as its programmes come
more closely into tune with those of the
Communist party, so do its efforts to
control opinion and to subjugate the
worker to mass-discipline and mass-
exaction.
Many of the thugs who control
unions today have apparently come to
the conclusion that the union has
become an overriding force which can
make its own laws in defiance of the
laws of Parliament and the. land.
Examples crop up with shocking
frequency. In Queensland the A.W.U.
leaders who control the political
machine of the A.L.P. have set out to
smash their own political leaders
because those sorry helots have at last
been driven to the point at which they
can no longer obey the whips of their
union masters. Bukowski and company
act in gross contempt of Parliament,
but Parliament is unlikely to act
against them; and on the present
showing with the powerful funds at
their disposal and cynically gerry-
mandered electorates and the capacity
to intimidate union voters, the A.W.U.
commissars are likely to continue
masters of the situation.
In N.S.W. a union junta, with the
backing of Dr. Evatt, the loudest
shouter for liberty and justice on
record, and of the great Communist
unions, has held illegal control of the
A.L.P. for over a year, and has ruth-
lessly expelled anybody who has shown
the slightest tendency to criticise or to
have an opinion of his own. It has
been able to keep in the saddle through
the power of levy and discipline. The
Federal Labor Party is wholly in the
thrall of the great unions, both as to
policy and action, and the Federal
Parliament and its members are
frequently the victims of the most
impudent threats and pressures.
So are private firms and public
utilities. Sydney has recently seen the
spectacle of a unionist who dared to
give evidence against a suspected
criminal at the Sydney abattoirs hauled
up before an entirely illegal tribunal
and fined by the ruffians who consti-
tuted it, threatened, in fact, with ruin
and penalised like a criminal because
he acted like a good citizen in pro-
tecting public property which was being
pillaged, apparently in an organised
way and under the shelter of union
tolerance.
Sydney, moreover, is the scene of a
sinister pressure-plan to force workers,
against their wills, into unions whose
records are so black with the darg,
sedition and sabotage that no decent
man could be expected to want to
have anything to do with them. A
group of 17 unions involved in a
scheme to force compulsory unionism
on all workers was a few days ago
engaged in threatening to shut-down
the oil supplies of two prominent
aircraft companies if all their
employees did not at once join relevant
unions.
Yet this sort of thing seems to be
taken as a matter of course by Govern-
ments, employers and employees, and
resistance to it has been unorganised,
as it also has been to the exaction of
illegal political levies and the brazenly
unlawful hypothecation of tens of
thousands of pounds of unionists’
money to Labor-party funds by a
process which, if it were carried out
with the funds of private companies,
would come pretty close to embezzle-
ment or malversation in the eyes of
the law.
New South Wales, of course, is in a
special position, and can make political
contributions out of a separate fund,
but no union has set up such a fund.
All make their own law. because if
they acknowledged th<f State law they
would have to face the fact that they
cannot make compulsory political
levies. It is much easier to break the
law and trust to intimidation to prevent
protest or resistance.
The matter has now become an
issue, but only because the A.L.P.’s
enemies wish to strangle union political
contributions in order to get. control
of the machine. Those who are now
virtuous have shown no virtue in the
past. Indeed, some of them have been
in the heart of the system. They will
be resisted to the utmost because the
continued existence of the Labor party
depends on the issue.
Governments, of course, have never
made any move. It is natural that the
A.L.P. Administrations should be
reluctant to cut their own throats, but
the attitude of Liberal-C.P. Adminis-
trations in the face of the extent of
the pressures exerted on unionists and
the general misuse of funds for
political purposes is remarkable.
They are apparently -timid souls
frightened of being accused of inter-
ference to damage a political enemy
in opposition to the principles of
“liberty” of organisation, which, in
Labor’s case, has become licence.
The whole question of misuse of
union power calls for review. Particu-
larly do the aspects of political finance
by union levy and personal intimida-
tion need attention.


KING OF THE CASTLE


PLAIN ENGLISH
Our Federal Parliament
[From Canberra]
Fortunately for themselves, Australia’s
124 members of the House of Representa-
tives have to give an account of their
stewardship only once every three years.
A quick look at the achievements of the
second session of the 22nd Parliament
shows the reasons for open antipathy
between the elector and the elected.
A complacent, bored Parliament met
on March 19. The Government was
bereft of ideas except some hazy pre-
occupation with bank-reform measures,
and the Opposition was, and still is, as
impotent as any other group busy with
internecine battles. The situation changed
little during the eight sitting-weeks which
ended just after midnight last Wednesday,
and the exodus on Thursday left Canberra
with only a token-force of politicians,
most of them Ministers, who had to be
there for the Loan Council meeting.
Highlights—if one can' call them such
—of the session have been the growing
strength of the Government’s backbench,
no longer prepared to accept a ukase
from Cabinet unless details have been
aired in the party-room, and joint
Government-Opposition embarrassment
over the Joske uniform-divorce bill head-
ing for the bottom of ‘the notice-paper
and then —oblivion.
The new fire among backbenchers was
the only really commendable feature of
the autumn session, but the vigor and
purpose with which a few capable private
members have applied themselves will be
losi umess it ha 3 a leavening effect on the
Government’s general policies. There are
some signs that the revolt, if pressed home
in the electorate and again in the Budget
session, might force the Government to
take another look at its “streamlined”
defence programme.
Forceful talk by respected backbenchers
like Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes and Air-
Vice-Marshal Bostock has not fallen on
deaf Service ears, and Sir Roy Dowling,
Chief of the Naval Staff, has since
stressed the urgency of getting tactical
missiles into the R.A.N. despite the
glaring absence of the atomic look in our
new defence programme which Mr.
Menzies announced to Parliament last
month.
The fact that the Government,
pressed by the backbench for six years
to bring in bank-reform measures, has
reached the stage where its reform
decisions are being translated into draft
legislation, is no remarkable feat. There
are still grave doubts whether the com-
plexities of rewording more than 100
other statutes will be solved in time to
have the reforms made law by Christmas.
Three recent occurrences —the unjusti-
fied increase in members’ living allow-
ances and Ministers' travelling expenses,
the shock realisation that some of our
Senators are on the verge of senile decay,
and the mass exodus from Canberra as
soon as winter sets in—point some sharp
questions.
Firstly, the 235. 6d.-a-day living-allow-
ance increase and the guinea-a-day
Ministerial rise are hard to defend. The
decision, “forced” on the Government
by the same backbench pressure it so often
ignores, was sneaky, coinciding with the
tail-end of the session. And none of the
arguments, for either increase holds
water.
Secondly, although the problem of our
old Senators has long been recognised by
the Government and Opposition on the
Representatives side of Parliament, the
Senate itself remains a. zealous guardian
of its status as tne senior House. The-
jealousy between the two Chambers lies
in the Senate's dislike of invidious com-
parisons, and every now and again the
august, red-carpeted Upper House stands
on its dignity iong enough for elderly
Senators, many of whom sleep long hours
during debates, to object to being a mere
“rubber-stamp” for the Government.
Thirdly, the average elector who had
tended to forget the association between
the arrival of near-freezing temperatures
in Canberra and the end of session has
had the coincidence brought home to him
with sledgehammer force.
The lightning exodus last Thursday of
all but a few members (with their living-
allowance increase retrospective to May 1
in their pockets) came as a jolt even to
hard-bitten political observers. There is
no earthly reason why Canberra's winter
should be used as an excuse to shelve
legislation and pack-up and clear out of
the capital as soon as the first frosts put
a nip in the air.
With a fleet of highly polished
limousines to take them from their hotel-
steps to centrally-heated Parliament
House, there is little danger that the
rigors of the winter should numb their
brains or endanger their health. Perhaps
a few winter sessions instead of recesses
might translate the present lethargy into
honest endeavor.
Disarmament Nonsense
One of the matters on which words are
being wasted in millions in discussions
between the Great Powers is “disarma-
ment,” which is purely a Russian
baby started with malign intention by
Moscow at a time when the Kremlin was
leading the arms-race with a deliberately
expressed purpose of world revolution.
The paradox continues on a completely
unreal basis mainly between the
U.S.S.R. and the U.S., with no reference
to Communist China, which has the
greatest military manpower potential of
all, and whose leader, Mao, in his
published speeches, has made it clear that
he believes that all world advances
toward the millennium must come “out
of the mouth of the gun.”
President Eisenhower and Comrade
Khrushchev have now come to a stage
in their discussions at which they are
swapping views on the question of a mile-
for-mile exchange of European and
U.S. territory for aerial inspection to see
that there are no H-bombs or other
aggressive devices lying about.
But the world was ready to disarm at
the end of World War II —eager to
disarm, in fact —save for one section,
“militant Communism,” which held, and
still holds, to the- tenet that until world
Communism has destroyed capitalism and
established its system globally there can
be no peace.
Every act of war since 1945 has been
generated by Communism, bent on
advance into new territory through the
weakening of capitalist power, or the
expulsion of Western strength from some
territory on the excuse of “colonialism.”
There can be no “small start” such as
President Eisenhower suggests. The
one advance which can make disarma-
ment in the West a proper measure
would, in fact, involve a vast retreat.
When Russia and China renounce the
ideals of international Communism and
open their frontiers on the same basis
as civilised countries and cease to preach
sedition and insurrection in the West
through their helot Communist bodies,
talks on disarmament can begin on a
practical basis.
So long as Communism continues to
rule and carry on its propaganda it must
be taken for granted that sooner or later
world war must be the ultimate product.
Unless, of course, while Mr. Eisenhower
and others are negotiating, Western
t civilisation is destroyed under their feet
by the burrowing of the Red ants.
Breeding "Chickens"
If we are bringing-up in Australia a
generation which has less respect for the
decencies than its fathers and grand-
fathers —and, in spite of the publicity,
there is not too much evidence for the
prosecution—then the guilty parties in-
clude some of those who are most vocal
in condemnation of the youngsters..
Many of the so-called “newspapers” in
this country devote incredible numbers
of columns to imported “comics” and to
“cheesecake” photographs which in
themselves are poor fodder for even the
feeblest minds ; and at times they could
well stand in the dock as aiding and
abetting in crimes of sex and violence.
Some of the television serials imported
years after they have been discarded else-
where are being shown to callow youths
in hotel-bars at night (in New South
Wales), and many printers, greedy for
money and regardless of the damage they
are doing, are reprinting the “pulp”
muck from overseas which relies for its
appeal *on sex and sadism without the
slightest mitigation of literary quality or
even reality.
Yet some of the newspapers which
offend most are among the loudest in
denunciation of sex crimes—because the
criticism in itself has apparently some
reader-appeal.
This miserable, slick hypocrisy doesn’t
delude any thinking person, but it does
have its cumulative effect on susceptible
minds. Some of the proprietors are also
associated with the television “enterprises”
which are purporting to offer entertain 1
ment to a public gullible enough to tune-
in to some imported and synthetic pro-
grammes now being offered. Some may
have interests in the “publishing”
houses which churn-out the “pulp” at
great speed and with no vestige of
responsibility.


Music on the Beach
The proposal to make Sydney beaches
an earthly paradise by erecting, for miles
along the coast, a barrage of loud-
speakers ululating a constant stream of
popular songs and advertisements has
much to commend it.
Besides the commercial value to the
surf-clubs, the promoting company and
the advertisers, there is, much more im-
portantly, the defence-value. Oriental
nations in particular are notoriously
averse to Western music—preferring, as
the Chinese Opera showed, the squeal of
a stuck pig to any noise we can make —
and it is quite possible, once the scheme
is in full operation, to imagine a foreign
Navy sailing up to Sydney Heads and
meeting such a concentrated blast of pop.-
songs as will instantly put it to flight.
Moreover, it should not be beyond the
resources of modern science to equip all
these loudspeakers, in war-time, with
some kind of. atomic death-ray, whereby
the invader could be annihilated. But
the music may be enough.
One of the great disadvantages of the
coast in its present primitive state is, for
instance, the enormous quantities of sand
everywhere lying about —a point long
ago noted by Lewis Carroll. Children are
constantly digging holes in it or, worse,
throwing it in each other’s eyes ; it gets
behind the knobs of portable-radios and
makes an unpleasant, gritty sensation,
between the toes. Hamburgers, after
falling into it, are practically uneatable.
Obviously, after all the rutile has been
extracted from it, the sand should be
cemented-over.
There remains the problem of the
ocean. There is a great deal too much sea
on all the beaches. This large and (so
far) useless conglomeration of salt,
oxygen and hydrogemhas, of'course, long
ceased to be used for swimming in:
people go to the beach to sunbathe, look
at the beach-girls and listen to music and
advertisements.
Faced with the hitherto insoluble
problem of removing the ocean, many
people have thought of re-estaolisnmg
the beaches in Central Australia—not too
close to Lake Eyre, of course, except in
a dry season—where the sunbaked
gibber-plains offer an almost perfect
setting for sunbathing, girl-watching and
the installation of loudspeakers.
The latest American experiments
make it clear that within a very
short time it will be possible, utilis-
ing the heat of the sun, to condense the
salt-water into fresh and send it surging
up the country wherever it may be
wanted. The beaches, then, can be
pumped dry.
We shall be left with beautiful bare
expanses of concrete; and, because of
the unpleasantness of the wind, it only
remains to have them all glassed-in and
then everybody, at last, will be able to
listen to the loudspeakers in comfort.
The future coastline of Sydney, glitter-
ing with huge sun-glass enclosures, all
roaring with music and advertisements —
from which, no doubt, the remnants of the
ocean may be observed through a tele-
scope—beggars the imagination: but,
given a satisfactory Danish design (like a
sailing-ship or a chandelier), and enough
mammoth lotteries to finance it, it can
be done.
Poets and other conservatives who like
the fresh air might be allowed to sit
outside the enclosures on specially-con-
structed chairs of Australian Literature.
" Double-barrels
1 [From “Collins Street”]
It is not difficult to understand that
farmers and graziers easily out-
number other occupations in the
Taxation Commissioner’s list of
reputed tax-scalers when it is re-
called that substantial tax-concessions
are made to primary-producers, with a
stampede by knowing jacks-of-all-trades
who grow a tin of tomatoes at their
seaside cottages to get themselves classed
by the department as “primary
producers.”
Some of the smart boys have got them-
selves, at least part of the way, and the
department officially lists their occupa-
tions in the unlikely combinations of
dealer and farmer, fishmonger and
farmer, and estate-agent and grazier. How
much dealing in proportion to grazing
must you do before you lose or gain
official tax-favor?
And does it amount to Suspected Fraud
or Evasion or Carelessness to give your-
self a commonplace occupation to conceal
your wealth? How else does the depart-
ment explain the riches of a fellow
describing himself as a clergyman wfio
understated his income between 1946
1953 by £15,939 and was fined
£1484?
lnen there is the “storeman” who failed
to add £20,143 to what he did earn
between 1941 and 1949, and was fined
£1735. The concealment of £5O a week
at a time when storemen were earning
between £6 and £lO a week was quite
an achievement.
It is quite understandable that the
guesthouse - keepers, plumbers and
secondhand-dealers of the war and post-
war period, should wish to understate
some of their easy money ; but where
did this bookmaker’s clerk, as the depart-
ment calls him, get such a substantial
income between 1944 and 1952 that he
was able to understate it by £10,025 and
not get detected for five years?
There are no “Member of Parliament
and fishmonger” or Member of Parlia-
ment and anything else in the obloquy-
lists. It would be informative to know,
though, how many M.P.s are listed as
M.P.s and primary-producers, and
whether they really are, commendably,
spending their entertainment allowances
on rabbitproof fencing.
The Ancient World and Us
The death of Dr. Gilbert Murray, 0.M.,
calls attention to the extraordinary
contributions of Australasians to the
study of ancient times, which seems
paradoxical, coming from a region which
was uninhabited by civilised people when
the great-great-grandfathers of many
people extant today were still living.
Murray was acknowledged as the
British Commonwealth’s greatest Greek
scholar, who was more than a mere
scholar in that his scholarship was of a
kind which made him a great literary
figure and thinker.
Son of Sir Terence Aubrey Murray
and brother of Sir Hubert Murray, whose
name will live as a pioneer Australian
administrator of Papua, his translations
from the Greek and his annotations of
Greek texts have become a priceless part
of modern classical scholarship, at a time
when the study of Greek has been in
decline. The resurgence of interest in the
language which is now taking place owes
something to the kindling influence of his
work, and proves that, as several Aus-
tralasians have found, there is still ore
to be mined in the ancient world.
His death still leaves two Australians
pre-eminent in the field of ancient studies.
These are Professor Gordon Childe,
Professor of Prehistoric Archaeology and
Director of the Institute of Archaeology,
who is the world’s leading acknowledged
authority on prehistoric Europe and the
origins of its civilisation, and Professor
Arthur Dale Trendall, a New Zealander
who leads an almost fantastic double
scholastic life on both sides of the globe,
maintaining at one and the same time
a cloistered existence as Master of Uni-
versity House, Canberra, and his position
as a world authority on Etruscan art,
which, in one phase, is being made
evident in the progressive publication by
the Vatican authorities of his monu-
mental and beautiful Vasi Italioti del
Vaticano.
Oliver Twists in Council
The Premiers’ Conference met early this
year without the P.M., who is conserv-
ing his strength for his journey to the
Prime Ministers’ Conference in London,
and is still reported very unwell.
There seemed to be no spirit in the
debate; indeed, with the Queensland
elections in the offing, the Labor repre-
sentatives behaved either as if they were
satisfied with what they got or as if
the heart had gone out of them.
Everybody, of course, asked for much
more than he got, and Mr. Cahill, in
the face of the recently-issued national
survey and its discouraging remarks
about, the effect of public expenditures
on the economy, called on the Com-
monwealth and his colleagues to
be “courageous enough to break
through present restrictions and make a
realistic approach to Australia’s prob-
lems”; in fact, to “provide the basic
framework for rising standards of living
and increased prosperity.”
In the end the States got a firm offer
of' £2OO million loan-allocation for
works and housing, which, with another
£B9 million for semi- and local-govern-
ment works, represents an all-round
increase of £34,650,000. Tax-grants at
£l9O million, including about £24 million
of special subsidy, were up just on £l6
million over last year.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
A LONG wait in the dusk while the
N.R.M.A. was coming to get my car
moving again convinced me that Sydney’s
respectable North Shore suburbs have a
night-life quite as intriguing as anything
that goes on at King’s Cross. There was,
for instance, the man who drove to the
house up the street from me; dashed
inside ; five-minutes later, drove off,
five-minutes later came back again ; three-
minutes later dashed off again came
back, drove off . . . He was too quick
for a doctor ; the pubs had shut; and
1 could only surmise that he was having
one of those domestic rows where you
leave home for ever, and then don’t. And
then there was the car that parked up the
hill under the trees ; waited half-an-hour
till another car drew up from the opposite
direction, obviously by arrangement,
whereupon the drivers held some mysteri-
ous colloquy in the dark. Whether these
were burglars, land-agents or lovers I
couldn’t, alas, make out. —“S.”
❖ ❖ ►>
“Imperial 55”: Around the Wollstone-
cra f t (N.S.W.) railway-station: “Eter-
nity” ; “Repent”; “Obey God”; “Wet
Paint.”
*s* *!♦ »J*
“Uramao”: The New Zealand Govern-
ment has replaced the horsehair-and-
leather seats in the Parliamentary
chamber with foam-rubber-and-leather,
green N.Z. leather being conspicuous.
One material was rejected on the ground
that it put a shine on the seats of mem-
bers’ pants. The double benches have an
arm-rest in the middle that can be folded
away, thus enabling legislators to sleep
while other members’ trains of thought
rush crazily through the night.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: Gone are the days when
twelve buglers sounded the Last Post
each night at the old Queenscliffe (Vic.)
fort, now the Australian Staff College, and
I have an idea that nowadays a bell is
used when a call is required. In many
Army establishments gramophone-records
of the various calls and marches are
amplified over a loudspeaker. Of
course the records are made by real live
musicians, but buglers are almost as
scarce as hens’ teeth. It’s noticeable that
at Shrine ceremonies and suchlike the
Last Post is sounded on the cornet (or
trumpet)—never a bugle. In the old days
buglers were not called on to perform
other work, but now bugling is merely a
sideline ; the men are not much interested.
How many men of the First A.I.F.
“It serves y' right for taking th ' Weight on y'r head—now you've
ruined y'r hat."
remember Bugler Morris at Broad-
meadows (2nd Divvy) and the great per-
formance he used to put on? Crowds
used to gather just to hear him play the
Last Post.
€* ❖ ❖
“Mac Hoots”: What absurd injustices
are inflicted on us by the protective
tariffs that make it impossible for Aus-
tralians to buy New Zealand cigarette-
tobacco and almost equally difficult for
New Zealanders to buy Australian wines!
While the Australian tobaccos get worse
every year, dry and rank and coarse, the
New Zealand brands, which were pretty
foul a few years ago, are now as fine and
golden as the best Virginian we used to
buy before the war. New Zealand ciga-
rettes, too, are both fatter and srrtoother
than Australian. But a bottle of standard
Australian hock, for which we would
pay five-shillings, cost me fifteen-shillings
when 1 was over there lately. Tariff
restrictions always favor the growers;
but haven’t the consumers any rights?
<i* ❖ ❖
“Pat Decrcesus”: On a blustery, rain-
drenched midday I saw a pint-sized old
lady standing forlorn and bewildered on
a busy Perth intersection. 1 grabbed her
by the arm and piloted her to her bus.
Just as she was about to board she
grabbed my hand. Expecting the con-
ventional shake, I was amazed and
thoroughly embarrassed when she lifted
the paw and gently kissed it.
♦Jh ♦£♦
“Cygnet”: Last year Tasmania's
Retail Traders and other bodies were
advocating the withdrawal of half-
pennies ; now there has been a return to
the farthing on domestic bills following
Cabinet’s decision to grant only 2d.-a-
-gallon increase on milk instead of the 4d.
dairymen are asking for. Milk-vendors
are apologising for having to trade single
pints on the farthing basis, and young-
sters’ old-coin collections are being turned
over for specimens of the out-of-date
currency.
INVITATION TO THE DANCE
“Michael Somes, for 20 years dancing-partner
to Dame Margot Fonteyn, says Australian boys
should take up dancing as a sport.”
Oh, boys from good Australian homes
Give ear to Mr. Michael Somes,
Dame Margot Fonteyn s dancing-ally
In twenty years of English ballet:
“Australian boys,” he argues, “ought
To take up ballet as a sport;
One must have rugged strength for it;
Indeed, to keep our dancers fit
We make them jump, long, high and
hurdles,
And football to keep down their girdles” —
Oh, boys, all this! And then go on
To dance “The Firebird,” or “The
Swan” — 1
Does that not make your senses quicken ?
You say you’re happier playing Chicken !
What can one do with lads like these ?
Our Swans, l fear, are mostly Geese!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


CO the old Melbourne Glaciarium ma
be under its last legs! It is to be sole
and at a meeting of shareholders reeentl
David Martin, of the Tivoli, said his com
pany had at one time been interested
the site, for rebuilding. Since 1907 it ha
been an ice-skating rink, and when firs
erected was christened by The Bulletin
“The Glassy-harem—a home for falling
women.” Its future is still uncertain.—
“Mick o’ Melbourne.”
❖ ♦>
“Sister Ellell”: Having been trainee
in Holding-high-the-Lamp, I’ve lately
wished it was in reading the Aldi
variety—then I’d know the code which
operates it. At some time or other folk
get “noises off” in the ear, mostly a buzz-
ing, or a bell ringing, but what I hear
may be heralding the arrival of space-
men from Mars, the end of the world
or the winner of the next Melbourne
Cup . . . it’s always in Morse Code ! Anc
for a female of an inquiring turn of mind
that’s verra pairvairse!
* ❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: The girl behind the
counter was wrong in asserting that the
road crossed the street (B. 15/5/’57).
Streets, when continuing beyond, cross
roads; not vice versa. That is why
traffic from cross-streets gives way in
almost all cases to through- or road-
traffic.
♦♦♦ +** +x+
“Casca”: Ad. in a daily newspaper
invites applications from girls aged
between 30 and 35-. Shakspeare gave us
the seven ages of Man, but what of
Woman? From the employment-ads.
she is a “young lady” from 15 to 16,
“junior girl,” 16-19, “lady” between 20
and 30 and . . . “girl” between 30 and
35. Then she becomes a “female.”
❖ ♦>
“Dorayme”: Italian claquers are not
limited to boxing or to Melbourne (B.
22/5/’57) ; I heard them first in London
just before the last war when Pinza and
Tauber were singing together in “Don
Giovanni” at Covent Garden —gradually
it dawned on even my dull comprehen-
sion that it was in fact a duel: Pinza
went through the “Champagne Aria” like
a bull-at-a-gate, and the mob in the
galleries shouted “Pinza! Pinza!”
Tauber, somewhat limited to his character
as a well-meaning and polite young man,
gave superb performances of his two best
arias, "II mio tesoro ” and "Dalla sua
pace”; but even Tauber seemed a little
daunted at the end of the show when he
took his curtain-calls to a ferocious yell-
ing of “Pinza! Pinza!”
❖❖ . *
“Ranji”: The new world-headquarters
factory of Nicholas Aspro nearing com-
pletion at Chadstone (Vic.) has a com-
plete red-green glass front. Each window
comprises two sheets of glass with a
vacuum between, as insulation against
both temperature and the noise of
Warrigal-road. At an estimated £9O per
window the glass in the front alone is
worth about £16,500.
“No Sirrah”: Message received in our
works-office on a Friday: “Mrs. Jones
rang to say that Bill Jones can’t come in
today because his back is too bad, and
will you please ask Alf Smith to let him
know whether he’ll be coming fishing
tomorrow morning ; tell him that the start
will be at three-o’clock.”
♦t*
“Dolphin”: When I fell under an
electric train and my multi-fractured left
arm refused to knit the Doc. decided to
break it completely and start afresh. To
get at the bone it was necessary to cut
through the pride of my tattoos, “Sailor’s
Grave,” which shows a ship sinking near
a lighthouse. Treating many daily, Doc.
had no time to recollect patients—-
—next morning, still groggy with anaes-
thetic, I heard the surgeon and Matron
talking at the foot of my bed: “I had a
beauty on the table yesterday,” Doc.
said; “bloke with tattoos. The bone went
"Oh, dear, We should have got Daddy's consent first."
with a beautiful snap !" I groaned and
rolled my back to them* To worsen
matters, when they removed the plaster
I found he’d completely sunk my ship.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bagot”: Corroborative police
evidence convinced a Westralian magis-
trate that a bloke arrested for drunken
driving refused to submit to a sobriety-
test on the ground that , he was far too
drunk.
❖ ♦> *
“Bo”: Nowhere is real toughness
better demonstrated than on the operatic
stage. Three minutes before galloping-
consumption takes them off, the Mimis
and the Violettas will be singing in full-
throated ease ; that poison is corroding
his vitals merely spurs Romeo to more
vigorous vocal effort; his Juliet finds a
little matter of six inches of dirk sticking
in her gizzard no impairment to her
warbling. I have admired the fortitude
with which Valentine sings his denuncia-
tion of his sister Marguerita, after a
skewering which would have discouraged
any other man from thoughts of song ;
and Edgar of Ravenswood' finds that
stabbing himself to the heart incommodes
his lung-power no whit. But for sheer
death-defying toughness I hand the bunch
of spaghetti to the title-roler who sang
an excerpt from “Otello” in the Italian
“ The House of Ricordi.” Instead of,
as * n demonstrating how he had
taken “the circumcised dog and smote
thus!” and thrusting his dagger into
net her works, the Moor turns his back
? n the audience and hacks through his
jugular with it. Then for the next two
minutes or so he proceeds to sing with
the utmost vitality out of his broken
windpipe.
* * * *
“Judee”:. Pity the poor postie!
Buchanan-street, Merewether (N.S.W.), is
only a short one, but there are five sets
of families of the same name—three
Smiths, three Joneses, two Hills, two Gills
and two Rowlands—none related.
* * * *
“H.E.S.”: Can’t understand complaints
about a shortage of nurses. According to
the Brisbane “Courier-Mail” (14/5/’57)
it’s a very lucrative profession:
After all, the main job of a nurse is to
nurse —to take the patient’s temperature and
purse, and attend to his meals.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“D.J.G.”: Melbourne motorists rushed
the City Council’s latest innovation on
the parking-meter front, all-day meters,
one-and-sixpence for nine hours’ parking,
beside the Flagstaff Gardens in King-
street, declaring it was cheap at the price.
On the ground that, as a man has to be
something of a sucker to be a motorist
these days, he may as well be an all-day-
sucker.


■fc/TISS 14-year-old, quizzed on her life’s
ambitions, intended, she said, to
take a job in an office. “What sort of
office?” we asked. “An air-conditioned
one, of course,” she replied scathingly. —
“Quo Vadis.”
*l* *Z*
“Tom Trout” (London): One good and
selfish reason for encouraging oversea
visitors to Australia would be to get back
something of what the itinerant Australian
spends abroad. Of the £5tg25,000,000
passed over British shop-counters Dy
tourists during 1956, Australians dished-
out most per head after the Americans,
mainly on textiles and clothing. In
English shops, also,.Australians were the
most numerous customers after Uncle
Sam’s children, but let themselves be
beaten back to third place by Canadians
in Scotland.
<B* »> »
“Ardoyne”: A middle-aged, couple
having been gassed
after new pipes had
been laid under
their house, liability
was admitted by the
gas undertaking,
and medical evi-
dence was that
escaping gas had
damaged the
husband’s brain-
cells, causing pre-
mature ageing, lack
of self-control and
concentration and
the loss of his
sense of taste.
The main after-
effect on the woman
was said to be the
loss of the sense
of taste. A Vic-
torian Supreme
Court jury awarded
the husband £4250
and the wife £2OOO
If £2OOO sounds large
compensation for
loss of the least
important of the
five senses, who
would willingly give
up, for any sum,
the pleasure of
enjoying, say, steak-
and-eggs, to mention no nobler dish, for
the rest of one's life?
**♦ ■•J*
“Moorapi”: Australia’s issue of Ant-
arctic stamps is another move in a phila-
telic cold-war. The current two-bob
touch, showing a map of our Antarctic
territory and three explorers hoisting the
flag, is shrewdly printed for use on over-
seas airmail. France, New Zealand and
Russia have been busy claiming and
counter-claiming by such means. Since
1933, Britain, Chile and Argentina have
waged a silent, three-way battle over
ownership of the Falklands, Argentina
even shading-in a portion of Chile, as
well as the Islands, as her very own.
“Blanc”: Farewelling a New Zealand
Anzac who was here with the N.Z. dele-
gation to our Anzac Day functions, I
recalled my astonishment at his winning
a £2 prize at an Edinburgh patriotic
function in 1918, about 200 members of
the forces present, for naming the rivers
of Scotland. Most of the Aussies named
three—Tay, Forth, Clyde—-no Jock
named more than six, but my N.Z. friend
had 10 written on his sheet. As 1 re-
called the contest he grinned: “I didn’t
tell them that 1 came from Invercargill,
where our streets are named after the
rivers of Scotland.”
♦j«
“Arpee”: “Flying is a young man’s
game.” Several young chaps who looked
old enough to vote spent most of last
Saturday afternoon in. our park making
vain attempts to coax their meticulously
finished control-line models into the air.
While they feverishly flicked propellers
and tinkered with motors their tempers
“Well, no actual experience, but here's a Weighing-
machine card that says I'm the perfect executive .”
were tried by the shrill scream of a small,
decrepit machine which circled the flying
area at the rate of knots a few feet above
their heads. Flown with nice precision
and a fine sense of showmanship by a
grubby child who’ll be paying half-fare
on the trams for a few years yet, the
intruder made more than a dozen success-
ful flights before it was challenged by a
large, sinister-looking delta-wing effort.
The expression of superb contempt on the
kid’s face was something to see when the
delta nosed-in and collapsed in a cloud
of dust before completing half a lap.
♦♦♦' ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Sunray”: I dunno what “Ranji’s”
worrying about with smelly parcels
through the post (B. 15/5/’57). At least
the rooster was dressed. A friend of mine
from the Old Dart was telling me that in
his young days he and his brothers were
impressed as beaters when the Squire
had a shoot, and if the day was good the
surplus birds were tied by the feet, a label
attached, and sent through the post as is,
without benefit of paper or packing.
Rabbits were tied head and feet and
similarly dispatched. “And the postmen
never objected,” concluded my informer.
♦> * <z>
“Tackline S.”: Parked astern of a
modern Jaguar, woman-chauffeured, and
£aw advertised on the back: AGE 289.
❖ ❖
“Baksac”: N.S.W. Police Commissioner
Delaney’s decision to follow the overseas
practice and make much more use of
mounted police for traffic-duty in
Sydney streets has achieved the seeming
impossible in being approved by pedes-
trian and driver alike, both of whom
agree that the while gauntlets and added
height of the horsemen make signals
visible from a far greater distance.
Otherwise, it’s strictly for the birds.
Wonder if the Civic Fathers still have,
stowed away in a corner of the Town
Hall, any of those quaint little containers
on wheels —and the boys to man ’em?
It'll be Dad news to sparrowdom if they
have.
STRICT IMPARTIALITY
Prosecuting sergeant: “When your real wife
fought with your de facto wife, didn't you do
anyLhing to break it up?”
Witness: “No fear. 1 was just the bag-holder
and ref.” —Court report.
When jealous women come to blows.
Some thoughtless people might suppose
The cause of it's expected
To hop in, pronto, to the yike,
As dogfight draws the passing tyke.
This view should be corrected.
Merely because, quite gaily, tie
Had happened to be rather free
In sharing his affection,
Why should he risk a blackened glim
Were both of*them to take to hitti ?
Neutrality means protection !
A delicate point of ethics he
Had taken. No adversary
He favored more than t’other.
Quite fairly sound advice he’d give
To both on how to bash a chiv.,
An uppercut to smother.
By Queensberry’s classic rules he sought
To guide his women as they fought,
For stoush by Bung-rule pained him.
And when their strength began 10 flag
He urged ’em strongly not to lag ;
The contest entertained him.
Two things alone deprived his sport
Of fullest savor: one, the thought
He couldn’t get a bet set;
The other, that he might be socked
(When in a hair-clinch they were locked )
For ruined perm or wet-set.
Ah, well! As one who’s never had
A brace of women fighting-mad.
Whose sex-appeal seems zero,
I hoist my cady to this bloke
Who bag-holds while his women poke
Their punches—what a hero!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


An A.B.C. Anniversary
Ten Years of Independent News
By M. F. DIXON
(Formerly manager of the A.B.C. News Service)
THE A.B.C. will celebrate the 10th
anniversary of - its independent
news-service on June I—the1 —the
second of three anniversaries the
commission celebrates this year. The first
was the 10th anniversary of Youth Con-
certs last April; the last will be the 25th
anniversary of the establishment of the
commission itself, by Act of Parliament,
about the middle of 1932.
From 1932 onwards the commission
had paid the metropolitan daily-
newspapers association the nominal sum
of £2OO a year for the right to use 200
cable-words a day, an hour after publi-
cation. A certain amount of Australian
news could also be broadcast; *but the
times were fixed so as not to clash with
publication-times of the newspapers. The
newspaper-proprietors feared, as overseas
newspapers had earlier feared, that broad-
cast news-bulletins would interfere with
their circulations. In actual fact, as they
were to realise long afterwards, a radio
news-bulletin is a better circulation-
booster than any billboard.
The abdication crisis in England late
in 1936 gave the commission its first
excuse, and opportunity, of breaking into
the o,verseas-news field. It followed this
with a weekend cable-service -from a
journalist on the “North China Daily
News” covering the highlights of the
Sino-Japanese war ; and by Munich-crisis
time the commission was getting a small
but fairly regular flow of “copy” from
independent sources overseas.
But even at that the service broadcast
to Australian listeners was scrappy and
disconnected, and deserv«d every criti-
cism made about it by W. Macmahon
Ball in his book Press, Radio and World
Affairs, published in 1938.
Ball was senior lecturer in political
philosophy at Melbourne University at
the time ; and he said: “The A.B.C.
news-service is very poor, fragmentary
and inadequate. The broadcasts of cables
are even shorter and less connected than
the cable-reports in the newspapers. It
is impossible to follow an important
and continuous international develop-
ment from listening to the....news-
snippets.... that constitute the overseas
news-service.” Ball had more to say in
the same strain, but there was nothing
much the commission could do about
it then.
In January, 1939, H. D. Black, senior
lecturer in economics at Sydney Uni-
versity, on his return from 2\ years’
study overseas, wrote a long letter to
the commission about its news-service in
the hope of stirring it into action. Black
told the commission that during the
Czechoslovakian crisis some overseas
stations had broadcast news-bulletins
lasting an hour, and added that “listen-
ing to them was an intellectual necessity.”
At the time the commission was
pottering along with broadcasts that
rarely exceeded 10. minutes. Black added
his opinion that news was a trump-card
on any programme, and if an extended
service could be tried out by the com-
mission for a month and then discon-
tinued, he felt sure that listener-reaction
would be enough to compel the com-
mission to revert to the longer bulletins.
But again the commission could do
nothing more than urge the newspapers
to agree to longer news-periods at more
suitable listening-times because national
W. J. CLEARY, chairman of the
A.B.C., 1934-44.
news-broadcasting was governed by a
“gentleman’s agreement!’ pending the
preparation of a draft agreement that
would prove acceptable to both parties.
For a variety of reasons such a draft
wasn’t produced for some years.
By 1940 the commission was paying
£3OOO a year to the newspapers for the
200 cable-words a day that had previously
cost it only £2OO ; but it was still not
able to use such news until an hour after
publication. However, through the
gradual development of its own sources
of overseas news, plus the monitoring of
8.8. C. bulletins and access to the British
Official Wireless Press, it was using only
a small amount of material from
newspaper sources.
A careful check of the wordage used
from all sources between September 25,
1939, and January 24, 1940—122 days—
showed that A.A.P. material averaged
only eleven (11) words a day, although
the commission was entitled to use 200
words a day.
One of the most irksome of all the
restrictions placed on the A.B.C. by the
newspapers was their refusal to agree to
the “following-up” of any story between
editions, nor were we able to use any
new story that “broke” during such
periods. The only concession we were
allowed was the broadcasting of items of
“national importance” not more than 25
times a year ; and even then they had to
be “on-the-spot” broadcasts—that is, an
announcer had to take a microphone to
the spot and give a direct coverage of
the event.
The commission’s news-staff, which
had been gradually strengthened from
1937 on, naturally disliked the restriction
on independent news-gathering, particu-
larly when listeners telephoned to accuse
them of laziness and lack of imagination,
and out of sheer enthusiasm they prob-
ably breached the “gentleman’s agree-
ment” a number of times from 1939 on.
In fairness to the commission I must
say that such breaches always brought a
reprimand ; but then I can recall being
reprimanded for lack of initiative, too!
When Hitler invaded Poland late in 1939
the A.B.C. was the first by many hours
to give the news in Australia ; and on
Sunday evening, two days later, the
commission rebroadcast Prime Minister
Chamberlain’s declaration of war on
Germany. This was followed by a
national broadcast by the Prime Minister,
Mr. Menzies.
The daily newspapers regarded the
commission’s early attempts at inde-
pendent news-gathering with amused
tolerance ; and by the time they realised
we were really making progress a new
and formidable rival had entered the
field.
It was then too late to do much about
it. The Minister for Information, Henry
Gullett, himself a journalist, told a meet-
ing of newspaper and broadcasting repre-
sentatives in Melbourne soon after the
outbreak of the European war that it was
the Government’s policy to give the
people the latest news at the earliest
possible moment. “We don’t want any
restrictions,” he said, “and we won’t
tolerale any unnecessary scares.” As a
result of the Minister’s intervention an
agreement was reached between the news-
papers and the commission which ensured
a greatly improved news-broadcasting
service immediately ; and the commission
later capitalised this by making its
national news-bulletins available to every
commercial radio-station in Australia,
free of cost, for the duration of the' war.
('Continued on page 13)


POLITICAL POINTS'
Would the old Queen have been amused
at her birthday celebrations? On
Empire night in Sydney the smoke from
crackers and bonfires closed Mascot
aerodrome, and a Britannia (no less!)
from London had to be sent on to Mel-
bourne. Still, it may be the last Empire
Day. There’s talk of calling it British
Commonwealth Day, and the Royal
Empire Society is becoming embarrassed
about its middle name also. No, probably
the old Queen would not be amused.
e •
The vacancy in the Senate caused by
the death of Senator Devlin will, accord-
ing to precedent, be filled by another
Labor man. The interest lies in the
question which Labor man. Comrade
J. J. Brown, of the A.R.U., might be
suitable if the United Front technique
works as smoothly as it does in union
elections in Victoria.
• •
All Government announcements point
to an end in the foreseeable future to
import-controls, though, according to
Labor, the restrictions are here to stay.
But controls—the more the merrier—is
stated Labor policy.
The Government does want to remove
import-controls and all other controls
when possible, and on import-licensing
has already taken the first important step
to iron-out anomalies in the present
system. The decision by McEwen, Trade
Minister, to set up, a committee in each
State to hear appeals against import-
licensing decisions was well received,
though the decision was forced by the
demands of the Senate Regulations Com-
mittee under Senator Wood, who
threatened to go ahead with his motion
calling for the disallowance of regulations
giving the Government power to issue
licences.
• •
Senator Condon Byrne, who has been
a Queensland Labor representative in the
Senate for six years, is the latest latent
democrat to see the light. He has dis-
covered for the first time that there is
“unfettered party dictatorship” in the
A.L.P. which will “inevitably lead to
Nazism as in Hitler’s Germany.” So
he proposes to strike, a blow for freedom
by backing Gain It won’t help Gair
very much, but it will make the Govern-
ment’s Senate position just a trifle happier
in Canberra.
• •
State Governments may be asked by
the National Health and Medical
Research Council to publicise the finding
that cigarette-smoking “is definitely a
contributory factor in producing cancer
of the lung.” This won’t be as embarrass-
ing as asking some State Governments
to advocate “Drink less beer.”
■ • •
All but the handful of members who
stay at the exclusive Hotel Canberra
are now able to pocket substantial change
from their £2 10s. a day Canberra
allowance. The extra 235. 6d. for them
and the Ministerial guinea bring
Ministers’ travelling expenses to £8 Bs. a
day, and will merely increase M.P.s’
unspent pocket - money. And how
ludicrous to pretend the extra money is
necessary to recompense members for
entertaining an increasing number of
constituents visiting Canberra! What is
the electorate allowance for? Do
members want to pocket this virtually
tax-free £6OO to £BOO a year too?-
• •
In the dying hours of Parliament
austere octogenarian Senator Donald
Cameron “lifted the lid,” as it were, on
the habits of some of his elderly colleagues
when he complained that they were too
fond of big dinners, the effects of which
they had to sleep-off in the Senate. Before
the Senate could stop him, Cameron, a
Labor stalwart, said too many politicians
were overfed, overpaid and underworked.
However, despite his strong independent
spirit in refusing to leave unsaid what
many observers have known for years,
Cameron will reluctantly accept the
allowance-rise.
Soon after Cameron’s outburst Senator
O’Flaherty, 71, another old Labor man,
touched on an issue the Senate normally
regards as taboo when he complained that
Senators risked undermining their health
and developing nervous tension because
of late sittings. But some of his colleagues
applauded when he said midnight was
quite late enough for Senators to “punch
themselves” to get legislation through.
Here again the facts speak for them-
selves. The Senate invariably rises earlier
than the House, and last year sat on 58
days for a total of 4944 hours, compared
with the Representatives’ 80 days for
758 hours. For the session which ended
last Wednesday, the Senate sat on 21
days for 164 hours and the House of
Representatives sat on 24 days for 241
hours. With only half the numbers the
Senate could not be expected to take so
long to get through debate as the 124
members* of the Representatives, but
neither should Senators complain of over-
work. If some Senators feel they are
too old to stand the strain they should
retire and make way for younger men
who can.
• •
The tired legislators of Canberra,
having sat for 24 days this year and
received increased living allowances on
a princely scale, are now to recuperate
during a 96-day recess. They began to
sit on March 19, passed 37 bills, had five
after-midnight sittings and 41 divisions.
Some members have been so little present
that they will not know the difference
between session and recess.
HE FLIES THROUGH THE AIR WITH THE GREATEST OF EASE


At least three rponths before Japan
attacked Pearl Harbor the commission
appointed Carlos P. Romulo, later to
become President of the General
Assembly of the United Nations, as its
correspondent in the Philippines; but
when fighting broke out Romulo had to
relinquish his assignment to take on a
grimmer task.
About the same time as Romulo was
appointed in the Philippines the .com-
mission, at the request of the Lyons
Government, appointed Warren Denning
as its news-representative at Canberra
with a special assignment to cover the
national Parliament. From then on the
A.B.C. had many scoops. First news of
the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor was
given to Australian listeners through the
national service; it was an A.B.C.
reporter who first interviewed General
Douglas MacArthur on his arrival in
Australia ; and it was through an A.B.C.
microphone that the General broadcast
his famous message: “I came through
and I shall return.”
During the Pacific war A.B.C. field-
correspondents included Chester Wilmot,
later to write that monumental book The
Struggle for Europe , and John Elliott.
Wilmot was killed when a BOAC Comet
crashed into the sea soon after taking-off
from Rome early in January, 1954 ; and
Elliott was accidentally shot during the
Pacific fighting when he was mistaken for
a Japanese soldier.
News of the bombing of Darwin, the
victory in the Coral Sea, the dropping of
atomic bombs on two Japanese cities by
American airmen and the death of
President Roosevelt were amongst the
tremendous happenings of their time
which reached the people of Australia
first through the A.B.C.
The commission’s news-staff assumed
that, having acquitted itself well during
the war, there would be no further
challenge to its right to collect its own
news when peace came. That was a
totally unwarranted assumption.
The question of an agreement between
the commission and the newspapers was
soon revived, and both parties agreed
that Professor Douglas Copland should
act as arbitrator. Copland named a price
for the service (£20,000 a year) which
both parties agreed to accept; but a
Labor Government headed by John
Curtin was now in power at Canberra,
and Curtin refused to sanction the agree-
ment. Instead, he referred the question
to a Parliamentary committee ; and this
committee, by majority, eventually
recommended that the commission
should establish its own news-gathering
organisation in Australia and buy its
world news from the overseas agencies.
The Government accepted the recom-
mendation and -the Act was amended
accordingly. Then began the big task
of organising the service throughout Aus-
tralia. Correspondents were appointed
in all key centres with instructions to
send news by the quickest possible means,
to the nearest A.B.C. station, be it
regional or metropolitan. The news
would then be used in either a regional,
State or national bulletin, according to
its importance.
It was a map showing the disposition
of these correspondents throughout the
country which first took the eye of Mr.
J. A. (Alphonse) Ouimet, general-
manager of the Canadian Broadcasting
Corporation, when he walked into the
A.B.C. news-room in Sydney late in 1954
during a visit to Australia to advise the
A.B.C. on certain aspects of television.
“Is that a chart of your weather system?”
Ouimet asked an A.B.C. news executive
when he saw the map.
8.8. C. heads who were in Australia
late last year attending the broadcasting
conference showed an equally keen
interest in the commission’s independent
news-service and admitted without qualifi-
cation that its coverage astonished them.
The commission has long had contracts
with the major news-agencies overseas,
including Reuters ; and so numerous were
the written and telephone requests of
listeners for copies of items that appeared
in A.B.C. bulletins and not elsewhere, a
year or so after the service began, that
a special typist had to be allotted to the
task of preparing them. Finally listeners
had to be told that copies of items could
no longer be supplied. From the very
beginning the commission’s corres-
pondents included country-newspaper
reporters and editors, professional men,
teachers, ministers of religion, stock-and-
station agents and light-keepers on lonely
outposts along the coast.
In some respects the service has
changed during the past 10 years, but in
others it is identical. The times and
periods of broadcasts are the same as at
the outset; the coverage has been
expanded by the appointment of a special
correspondent in South-east Asia; and
many new regional stations now carry
the news to a wider circle of listeners.
The A.B.C. had only 37 stations when
the service began in 1947 ; today, owing
to the opening of many additional regional
stations, the number is 72. Commercial
news-services have also been greatly
expanded in recent years, and only 38
commercial stations throughout Australia
now broadcast A.B.C. news, against 55
in 1946. No fewer than 72 commercial
stations broadcast news-bulletins prepared
by their own networks.
The commission now employs 126
graded journalists throughout Australia,
which is small compared with, say, the
Mebourne “Herald,” which has 329. The
cost of A.B.C. news-services in 1948 was
£165,000; to the end of 1955 (the latest
report available) it was more than double
at £340,725. This amount is small com-
pared with 8.8. C. expenditure on news,
which as far back as 1948 totalled a
million pounds a year. Maybe with the
advent of television the A.B.C. total will
equal that before long.
Canberra pundits who look well ahead
say the departmental struggle for supreme
power is narrowing down to Treasury
and Prime Minister’s, with Trade bereft
of some of its present activities and out
of the race. It is believed that the
Treasury doesn’t want to absorb Customs,
fearing another set-up like Taxation,
which is under Treasury administration
but has a head who ranks high in the
public-service hierarchy, with direct
access to Ministers. Treasury (in other
words, Roland Wilson) is believed to
feel that it should be “small but good,”
and that its tame economists and others
should- be more than a match for the
similar group of brains-trusters gradually
building up in the 'Prime Minister’s
Department, administered by Allan
Brown. Interesting to watch from the
sidelines—but where does the taxpayer
come in?
9 9
“Caucus”: “Sick Labor Senators will
be brought to Canberra and, if necessary,
carried into the Senate to give the Oppo-
sition the numbers to defeat the Govern-
ment’s bank-reform bill in the Budget
session.” Well, that’s the theory of it.
In practice, the Labor opposition to bank-
reform will be about as successful as the
Country party’s stand in the party-room
debate. And the sick Labor Senators?
Well, some, as events have shown,
are far too ill for any such ideas to be
seriously contemplated. Anyway,. Labor
will do its utmost to avoid a real fight
on any issue, especially banking. The
boys don’t forget that banking was the
excuse for the 1951 double-dissolution
which gave Menzies control of the
Senate.
• •
In darkest Canberra the drought con-
ditions have meant heavy frosts in May,
and in spite of the sunny days the older
residents aren’t looking forward to the
winter months. Their feelings are not
assuaged by the fact that, as usual, the
politicians are getting away for the three
bleakest months, but there is some sub-
dued glee that the public servants who
have sheltered in the Defence funkhole in
Melbourne for so many years must now
prepare to meet the rigors of the Southern
Tablelands. The old hands point out that
Canberra amenities are now far better
than in the ’twenties, when the first
pioneers moved in—but the thermometer
doesn’t suggest that the South Pole is any
more distant than it was 30 years ago.
• •
Israel’s forrfier Prime Minister and
Foreign Minister, Moshe Sharett, said
in Sydney that in parts of Asia he had
found some virulent criticism of Israel,
having been in the East at the time of the
Suez crisis and the fighting in Sinai. The
hostility was greater among the Moslems
than the Hindus, but even among the
Moslems he detected a subdued note of
satisfaction that Nasser wasn’t having
things all his own way, and that in the
military sense he’d been given a thrash-
ing. Sharett said he still hoped for Asian
acceptance of Israel, and saw signs that
this was on the way, even among nations
which still refused official recognition.


PERSONAL ITEMS
SHEEP RESEARCH
TTUGH McL. GORDON, who has
written a special article for the Wool
Issue (p. 54), is, of course, a world
authority on his subject. The book written
by Clunies Ross and Gordon back in the
’thirties is still the standard reference on
internal parasites of sheep. In at The
Bulletin office the other day, this inter-
viewer mentioned that he had been given
the book as a school-prize. Gordon
laughed, and suggested it was a monstrous
sort of prize. Interviewer explained that it
was at an Agricultural High School,
therefore appropriate ; which raised the
thought that it must be nearly lime for a
revised edition. Since then, Clunies Ross
(Who, among other brilliant research
work, with a colleague discovered the
cause of black-disease in sheep, at a time
when researchers all over the world were
exploring a variety of blind alleys) has
since become Sir lan and chief of
C.5.1.R.0., and Hugh Gordon has gone
on to become the No. 1 man in his field of
sheep-research in the No. 1 sheep country.
Gordon was just back from a trip to
Condobolin (N.S.W.) when he called at
252 George-street —he moves around a
lot, to field-days, field-trials, and the like.
This writer met him some little time back
on Henry Kater’s property, supervising
experiments to control-liver-fluke. This
sort of constant contact with the paddock
side of veterinary-research perhaps
explains why, in manner and appearance,
Gordon is the least academic of scientists.
Another reason could be the fact that he
was brought up on the land. He’s from
the New England, where his father still
has a property (near Uralla, in the
Armidale district), went to school at
Armidale High, then down to Sydney
University and the calm grey walls of St.
Paul’s 'College. He graduated and was
awarded a Walter and Eliza Hall Fellow-
ship in Veterinary Science together, and
went straight to the McMaster Animal
Health Laboratory (C.5.1.R.0., but in
the university grounds), where, apart from
a year on loan to Grazcos and regular
trips around, he’s been practically ever
since. He also lectures at the university.
• •
A. H. Mann, newly-sworn-in Chief
Justice of Papua and New Guinea (he
succeeds Sir Beaumont Phillips, who has
retired because of poorish health), is
versatile : interested in the applied sciences
(co-patentee of an invention in the field
of sound-reproduction), painting (an
exhibiting member of the Victorian
Artists’ Society), deep-sea sailing, and,
of course, Law —usually reckoned a
jealous mistress. He is 43, went to
Geelong Grammar, was admitted to the
Bar in 1938, and was a navigator with
10 Squadron in War 11; after which he
picked up the threads of his practice again
in Melbourne, taking silk in June, 1955.
• •
Dulcie Deamer: Word comes from
London of the death there, at 71, of
Nelson Illingworth. When still in his
20’s he was a conductor at the Sydney
Conservatorium ; he also taught singing
at Sydney University, was a noted lieder-
singer himself, and always a sympathetic
teacher and helper of fledgling talent.
Later he gave recitals in the United
States, and finally settled in London,
teaching singing, elocution and theatre.
An English comment on his “fierce Aus-
tralian tongue, and that compelling,
sometimes violent, insistence on integrity,”
shows one side of him ; another is demon-
strated by the number of his friends—
during the three decades of his life in
England troops of musicians, writers and
artists were stimulated by his warm and
forthright personality. He was, and
remained to the end, a great barracker for
The Bulletin.
• ■ •
The most onerous job in the Victorian
public service—spending £l5 million a
year, which would have to be doubled to
satisfy demands —has fallen to James
Aldred. The new secretary of the Public
Works Department has been in that
outfit since 1937, and there has been
private-secretary to six Ministers,
two. of whom became. Premier. Jim
Aldred, who is more than 6ft. and still
slim at 55, was one of East Melbourne’s
fastest (competitive) walkers some years
back, and still looks the part. He laments
the decline in walking as a sport. “When
you see them on the road now,” he says,
“they are so unfamiliar they look like
comedians.” He gets his exercise second-
hand now, as secretary of Murrumbeena
Boys’ Gymnasium, looking after 106 boys.
FJe has been a member of the public
service for just on 40 years ; which, per-
haps, explains why it is only in the last
few years that he has been able to begin
the picture-collection he has always
wanted.
• ' •
Elias Godfrey Coppel, Q.C., whose
friends really have no option other than
to call him Bill (he’s been “Bill” for 40
years, since he was a private in the first
big war), is the man chosen by the Vic-
torian Government to preside over the
inquiry into the future of Debney's
Paddock. The inquiry had been adjourned
until 10 a.m. yesterday (May 28) on the
BOARD OF INQUIRY
application of counsel for Melbourne City
Council. The 37-acre block, in Mel-
bourne's industrial west has been regarded
as a playground since Batman’s time, and,
since the City Council has begun to permit
factories to creep across it, it has evoked
brilliant venom and breathtaking ferocity
between open-spacers and non-open-
spacers. Dr. Coppel, an urbane, judicial
barrister of 35 years’ practice, is a member
of the Melbourne University’s Faculty of
Law and has been an acting Justice of
both the Victorian and the Tasmanian
Supreme Courts. He wrote the standard
textbook, The Law Relating Jo Bills of
Sale, long before Debney’s PaddocK
became—er —immortal.
• •
Journalism in both Australia and his
native New Zealand lost one of its finest
craftsmen and best of good fellows with
the passing on of Hugo Freeth in Christ-
church, where he edited “The Press’’ for


just under a quarter of a century, after
having crossed the Tasman to put in
some years with the “S. M. Herald.”
His friends outside journalism were
mostly fellow-golfers: he himself played
off scratch for years. Typical of the
enthusiasm he gave to journalism and
other things as welf —including laughter,
and, of course, golf—he once took present
writer to the Mosman (Sydney) course for
initiation in the game: result, six of
Hugo’s new pills hooked or sliced into
the Harbor. That was enough for even
Hugo ; and made no better by a subse-
quent sporting par. in The Bulletin
which made it appear that the no-hoper
golfer had used his pen to make a profit
of 7s. 6d. on the lesson.
Hugo's own paper has fairly described
him as “a master of the craft of journal-
ism,” mentioned that he was “an under-
age soldier in the First World War,” and
added that “Among his professional
colleagues and his fellow-enthusiasts for
goli—a game to w'hich he brought an
unorthodox light-heartedness as well as
■olable skill —he will be remembered
gratel ally as a fine journalist and a man
whose friendship was not less to be valued
because it was so readily given.”
Hugo hailed originally from Napier,
worked on several N.Z. papers before
crossing to Sydney, and had his last look
at Australia as a member of the N.Z.
delegation to the Commonwealth Press
Union conference at Canberra in 1955.
His father, too, was a notable N.Z.
journalist in his day.
»
• •
Enzedder M. J. (Mike) Moodabe is
probably best known this side of the water
as a racehorse-owner (quite a few of his
horses have done well in Australia,
notably Prince Cortauld, which won
£51,215 in stakes and was sold to an
American stud, and Lord Cortauld, the
two-year-old gelding now racing well
enough in Sydney to be talked of as a
FAST HORSES
Derby prospect next spring), but he has
other claims to fame: his 0.8. E., for
instance, for philanthropic and patriotic
services, his life-membership of the
Auckland Red Cross ... Governing-
director of Amalgamated Theatres of
New Zealand, Ltd., he’s in his early 60’s
and has three sons—all in business with
Dad.
• •
“loane” (Samoa): Wandering Aussies
—you find them all over the world. In
these remote where the main
events are a fortnightly ship and an
occasional murder, they number around
the 50-mark. The Returned Servicemen’s
club is liberally sprinkled with them.
What do they do? Rod Hoy, ex-
R.A.A.F, (D.F.C.), is engineer-in-charge
of a hydroelectric construction-project.
Reg Boyan, ex-New. Guinea A.D.0.,
is organising Samoan Co-operative
Societies. George Allardyce is keeping a
fatherly eye on his team of Methodist
missionaries, and is regarded as an
authority on Samoan grammar. Big
Don Murphy, of S.A., is Government
livestock-officer, and is currently trying
to establish pond-fish in the Territory.
John Jones, reared on a Westralian wheat-
farm, is Harbormaster. Les Pearson
and his offsiders build in concrete —the
Bank of N.Z., and now schools. Some
are raking in profits for the local branch
of Burns Philp. One enlivens the pukka
Morris Hedstrom’s with apt Australian
idiom.
Why are they here? “Aw, just felt
like a change.” This correspondent
flatters himself that he is here to study
Polynesian life, culture and language, but
truth compels him to admit that he also
“just felt like a change.” We're an itchy-
footed lot.
• •
Brian Walsh, whose prizewinning
article “The Woolbuyer” appears else-
where in this issue, wasn't hard to find
for interviewing purposes. He works in
The Bulletin building and regularly
beats a Bulletin director at squash. He’s
a shipping-clerk with the woolbuying firm
C.I.L. (“I can’t very well call myself a
junior executive wear the wrong-
colored waistcoat”) and isn’t altogether a
stranger to writing—he’s had short stories
published. A Sydney boy, Brian went to
St. Aloysius’ College, served with an a»k-
ack unit in the Middle East and Darwin,
and is now 38.
• •
A man from County Sligo, Ireland,
recently became Clerk of the Assembly
of the Queensland Presbyterian Church,
succeeding the 70-year-old Very Rev.
Richard Bardon, The new man is the
Rev. Robert Hugh Crowe, 53, who came
to Australia in 1924. He is minister of
St. Lucia (Brisbane) and has already been
Acting Clerk (1951-54) and Moderator
(1955-56). The Clerk of the Assembly
is a key office ; with the Moderator and
the Treasurer, he forms the legally con-
stituted body entrusted with the Church’s
finance and property.
Acting chairman of the Australian
Wool Bureau, Rollo Hawkes (herewith)
had the pleasant job of handing over the
first-prize cheque of £5OO to Brian Walsh,
and other cheques to N. S. Wales winners
of prizes in the Wool Bureau competition,
in Sydney the other night. A member of
the famous South Australian Merino-
WOOL PROMOTION
breeding family, Rollo Hawkes is 52,
went to Geelong Grammar, served as a
pilot-officer in South Pacific areas in War
11, and, apart from the Wool Bureau
position, is a member of the C.5.1.R.0.
Advisory Council. He’s a director of
Koonoona, founded 1863 —brother Glen
is managing-director—but has his own
place at Naracoorte, in the south-east
of the State. Where, he said, remarkable
things are being done in improving carry-
ing-capacity. - He’s enthusiastic about
fodder-conservation, in general, and
round bales (which can be left in the
paddock) in particular; about the
prospects of promoting wool by intelligent
and honest publicity ; and made the point
that in Australia all types of wool are
equally important.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 63, Victorian M.L.C.
Will iartT Macaulay. He had represented Gipps-
land in the Upper House for 20 years, had
been a member of Alberton Shire Council since
1930, and served four terms as president.
In Sydney, at 71, J. G. H. Shipway, manager
for 25 years of the Union Trustee Co. of
Australia, Ltd.
At Geelong (Vic.), at 68, Frederick W. Stinton,
one of Victoria's best-known horticulturists.
In Melbourne, Albert Roy Ford, editor of
the “Heidelberg News" for 30 years.
In Sydney, at 49, Keith Duggan, well-known
Randwick trainer. Among other races, he had
won two Tattersall's Cups (with Jeypore).
In Adelaide, at 89, E. M. Sabine, who retired
in 1933 after being for 16 years a special- and
police-magistrate in Adelaide Police Court.
In Perth, at 73, William Thomas Adey, who
served in the Boer War and again (with the
Coldstream Guards) in World War I.


ABORIGINALITIES
SAMARITANS
■OLESS the New Aussies for the way
they help our Willie Wandafars
through!
I got quite hardened in my own days
of hitchabout to the suspicious looks and
innuendo of Old Aussies from whom I
asked a week’s work to get me down the
line: “Healthy bloke like you ought to
be regularly employed like all of us.” I
had that kind of thing from too many,
though not from all, of course.
But the new boys are a different
product altogether. They’ve mostly been
through it all themselves —in much, much
more distressing circumstances. What’s
more, they can understand, that someone
might, even temporarily, want more out
of life than nine-to-five at a desk and
increasingly stronger specs as the years
beat on. They can even —bless ’em again
—take joy in someone’s good fortune in
being able to cut loose.
Outside Orange (N.S.W.) there was the
fine old Italian and his sons (sturdy,
smooth-muscled men built like young
carillons) who gave me the little amount
my inexpert cherry-picking had earned,
and a bit over: “To walk and see, that
is something money is good for.”
For the opposite sort of thing there
was the night in a dusty country-
town factory-hostel in Victoria, and a
meal that had sat two hours after cooking
on a kitchen-rack till I came off over-
time —a sog of cabbage, mutton like
thick wood-shavings, and corky spud, all
topped-off with a round of abuse from a
viperish old manageress for the late home-
coming. After, I lay in my sway-backed
cot, chokka in a splendor of introspec-
tive misery till the similarly-dealt-with
Yorkshireman brought relief. Silent, he
looked stolidly through the door at the
night-and-day mixture of red-and-black
sky-glow. “Be a right fine day in Africa,
lads,” he said at last.
For a time I had as hitching-companion
a Yugoslav who got more miles pn a
single pea-pie-pud than anyone else I’ve
ever met. For economy, he was a human
two-stroke. We were on the road out
from Gundagai, near the Tumut turn-off,
and waiting for someone else to take us
further on to Sydney when light rain
began to fall. There were odd cars, nearly
all going south, away from Sydney. True
wanderer, the Yugoslav dashed across the
road to thumb them, then back for the
occasional one that came heading north.
We went to Canberra.
Meals! A star in the crown of a
German fellow process-worker for the
Continental mysteries he cooked and
dished-up. And the disillusioned English-
man who managed the dusty N. S. Wales
open-cut (“Give you a job in a flash,
old boy, but these chaps’d throw a strike
before you picked up a shpvel”) and who
gave me free run of the canteen for a
week.
All good blokes to know on a walk-
about.
M’BORO.
TnrORSES are not only afraid of live
AA elephants (B. 8/ 5/ ’57). Our
emporium has the most natural-looking
life-sized toy pachyderm any child could
wish for, and she glories in the name of
Nellie. Powered by a 7 h.p. motor, her
legs move naturally as she bumbles along
on concealed rollers controlled by wires
from the driver’s seat in her head. Each
year sr.e takes her place ih Adelaide’s
Christmas pageant and, with excited kids
on her back and her driver dressed-up like
a native fresh out from darkest Africa,
she draws her plaudits from the crowd.
On a trial run beforehand, down near
the market, a few horses there were very
agitated when they saw her and some-
one had to hold their heads for fear of
further trouble. After all, she looks very
real and you couldn’t expect the horses to
savvy the registered numberplate banging
on her backside. —“Lorna Doone.”
* * * *
“Villefair”: “E. &O. E.” missed the
most convincing clue to suppoit his suo-
mission that the wombats kept as pets
by Christina Rossetti at Chelsea, Eng-
land, were the Tasmanian species (B.
1/5/’57). The Tasmanian wombat is
the only variety that fits the description,
since it is the only one that is not noc-
turnal. Flinders observed it on the Bass
Strait islands, and immediately noted the
characteristic. A botanist with the expedi-
tion named Brown took one of the
animals with him when he returned to
England. Don’t know whether it was the
first wombat in England, but it antici-
pated Miss Rossetti’s pets by more than
50 years.
“Wusslean”: Christina Rossetti’s wom-
bats were not the first instance of Aus-
tralian fauna acclimatised in England
and mentioned in literature. In his Rural
Rides, written in the 1820’s, William
Cobbett records having seen black swans
in a Wiltshire park-pond belonging to
a Mr. Watson Taylor. Unfortunately he
does not mention how the birds got there ;
possibly he considered their origin not
worth inquiry, for he said with charac-
teristic Cobbett prejudice against anything
non-English: “They are not nearly so
large as the white, nor are they so stately
in their movements. They are a meaner
bird.”
* * * *
“Fairf”: Forty years ago the police-
man's weatherboard cottage stood on a
corner block at the fringe of the six-
shop centre that was our town. Progress
came, and the cottage was shifted bodily
on to the next block to make room for
a corner shop. Fifteen years later the
town’s growth gave the house another
nudge-over—two blocks, this time, to
allow for the new building. Now, with
city firms falling over themselves to pay
thousands for the blocks on which we
used to play bushrangers, the old house
is jacked-up to go walkabout again. But
this time it’s a job for a specialist with
huge timber runners and wheels
specially designed for the job. The
reason: there isn’t a vacant block within
hundreds of yards.


* t »
UM^V/; f/Ay'^ / V T*
AfZ& 'AUrtO- (


“How many?"
“Kerba”: The bloke who has chased
kangaroos in a car and clocked the hopper
at 40 m.p.h. has become a bit too plenti-
ful to be interesting, but the ’roo we paced
gave it a different twist. Holding its lead
at the prescribed 40, it suddenly bounded
sideways and cleared a standard-height
wire-fence. It landed off-balance, how-
ever, and pitched forward to strike the
ground head-first. “Broken neck,”
exclaimed our driver remorsefully as he
slowed down. We turned to see whether
we would have to do the merciful thing.
Broken neck! It was then that ’roo
showed us just what speed he could really
hit up as he lit out for the blue hills.
♦ * * *
“North Esk”: When I asked what kind
of an apple-tree it was he said: “Looks
like a Cox’s Orange, but we’ll soon tell.”
He picked up a windfall, put it near his
ear and shook it. “Yes—Cox’s Orange
right enough. You can always hear the
pips rattle inside when they’re ripe! ” He
told me he’d learned this method of
distinguishing them in England. It’s the
only apple with rattling pips, so he says.
* * * *
“Rus”: Nothing far-fetched in running
down a rabbit on foot (B. 10/4/’57).
Around Cunnamulla (Q.) we did it often
to get in good nick for football. Provided
bunny is cut off by a minimum of several-
hundred yards from its burrow, a good
sprinter will catch it every time, because
the quarry is not a stayer. In drought,
when rabbits are poor, the running-down
is quite easy. Further, the rabbit, aware
that the pursuer has not dropped out of
earshot, will turn it in at a point from
which it would, in fact, have been possible
to reach the burrows safely. Paradoxi-
cally, it will often show fight when it is
picked up, and I’ve had one sink its teeth
into the back of my hand.
m * * *
“Uramao”: A queer assortment of fish,
from black-as-ink to brilliant-red, has
been dredged from Cook Strait (N.Z.)
by a team of deep-sea research-students
from Victoria University College,
Wellington. Taken from between 400 and
600 fathoms, most of the black fish were
the first obtained in N.Z. There were
blood-red shrimps, crimson and purple
squids, and colorful jellyfish, with new
types not yet identified. For the first
time in N.Z. a blood-red prawn was
found. A snipe-eel ( Avocettina ) was
another of the rare deep-down dwellers to
be captured.
* * * *
“Geep”: There’s a place called North
Pole only 20 miles west of Marble Bar
(W.A.), but I don’t suppose it’s much
comfort to Marble Barmen who, during
last summer, endured 171 century -plus
temperatures, 94 of them on successive
days.
* * * •
“E.A.G.”: Making for the bank of the
Macintyre River (Q.) for a day’s fishing,
we saw a full-grown emu leisurely swim-
ming in the deepest stretch of water, and
seeming to do it as naturally and with as
much enjoyment as any duck. Undis-
turbed by our grandstand viewing, it
made no effort to escape, and when we
left it was still majestically floundering
about.
* * * *
“Nimrod”: The abundance of rabbits
on the Nullarbor (B. 1/ 5 / ’57) has caused
an increase in the number of wild dogs,
which, in turn, are now reducing the
rabbits, so that some of the rabbit-trappers
have turned doggers. This should lessen
the number of wild dogs, with result-
ing improvements in the rabbit-ranks, so
that eventually the doggers can become
rabbiters again. Provided the seasons
hold good, rabbits and rabbiters and
doggers and dogs should all be right
for a crust for life—that’s if the mossies
don’t cruel the whole game by introducing
myxo.
DRILLERS’ SONG
The bush is full of clattering noise when
the walking-beams resound,
The derrick shakes as the drill-bit quakes
to a crazy ragtime jog.
Three-hundred feet in the earth below the
drill and the jars rebound
As the driller feels the slackening rope
and gives her an extra cog.
Our bits are sharp and the rock is hard,
down in the earth below,
With sink-bar, jars and drilling-bit, lever
and walking-beam.
Covered in dust we earn our crust, for
this is a job we know;
The work is ours, and the water yours as
soon as we tap the stream.
The engine roars a steady beat as the
belt goes whirring round,
The drill comes up and the slush-pump
down to give us a clearer hole,
A welcome sight, for the sludge runs
white where water-seams abound—
The stream is there, but the bit goes on
to reach its final goal.
The dust is over our bodies now, but
water is down below,
We’ll wash it off as we rest the bore and
hope for a mighty stream.
The driller is first to open the land, for
he makes the country glow,
His song of water can ever be heard in
the crash of the walking-beam.
“Water is here!” the drill-bit calls from
the gurgling stream below ;
“Water!” the jars of steel sink-bars
re-echo to us above
Who stand in the heat, where the engine-
beat tells us that we must know
Whilst walking-beams clang through this
land the herds shall outward move.
We drillers are now on that fringe of
land, untouched for a million years.
Where black mans well and rock-hole
dry beneath the scorching sun.
Our drill-rig jumps as our bits go down
to the chatter of gnashing gears,
And over this land shall windmills stand
for us when our race is run.
N.T.
W. E. HARNEY.


JOHN O’Grady’s poem, “Dance of
the Matai” (B. 10/4/’57), so
accurately describes a Torres Straits
Island village interlude that I must assume
that the populations of this archipelago
and of Samoa are exact counterparts,
except in the matter of language. The
poem’s description of the islanders’ hand-
shake as “soft and slow and full of
grace” forces me to recall the spectacle
of two men-mountains Tanu and Tam-
woy, extending * their Brobdingnagian
hands with all the grace of a mid-
Victorian dowager for a fingertip con-
tact. Also, in the description of the
spontaneity with which, suddenly, “big
brown children dance in the dust,” I
remember the calm nor’-west monsoonal
mornings when I’ve seen old blind
Timaio, resplendent in red lavalava and
hibiscus-decked hair, walking solitarily
from Badu village to the trading-station
at Dogai, suddenly burst into an im-
promptu dance which clearly reflected
the pleasant thoughts which must have
burst into his consciousness. “Big brown
children” —I’ll pay that one! —“Lignum.”
* * * *
“Sebak”: Is there another Port Jackson
in the world somewhere? And if so,
does it produce a willow-tree? The ques-
tions arise from a passing memion in
C. B. Stoneham’s Hobo to Hunter of
“Port Jackson willows,” which,
apparently, thrive in Kenya. Australia
does have a “native willow” —the cooba
—but it belongs to the inland and has
never, to my knowledge, grown naturally
near Port Jackson. It is an acacia,
however, as are most of our wattles, and
wattles are very well represented on the
shores of Our ’Arbor. The leaf of many
wattles resembles the w'illow, so the tree
.flourishing in Kenya could be an expatri-
ated Sydneysider hanging its head in
shame at having renounced its nationality.
w * * *
“J. 8.”: Tell “H.C.8.” (B. 8/5/’57)
that Three Leg o’ Man Creek, outside
Berrima (N.S.W.), takes its name from
the tavern which used to stand near by,
which in turn took its monicker from the
Manx emblem, the motto on which ran,
“Where I fall 1 stand.” The Cowley
family, who owned the inn for many
years, came from the Isle of Man, and
the inn’s signboard caused much interest
among the abos, who tried to., depict it
in their corroborees. The tavern, built
about 1835, was pulled down in 1918,
and a few big trees and the remains of
some old stone walls are all that remain.
Lucretia Dunkley, claimed to be the only
woman executed at Berrima jail, was
hanged for murdering a guest at the
inn—she was described as “owning” it.
A more pleasant legend is that Archer
was stabled at the inn for a while after
his Melbourne Cup wins of 1861 and
1862. In more sentimental vein is the
story which tells how, when the inn was
demolished, two spinsters of the district
had the stone flags removed from Archer’s
stable and incorporated in the floor of
their veranda.
“324”: Odd that the three legs, or
triskeli, should also be the emblem of the
island of Sicily, so far from Manx. What
might have been the ancient connection
between them?
* * * *
“Par”: Melbourne breweries have
aroused the tigers of the Murray valley,
resentful of an intimation that their
clubs must charge members the same
price for a beer as do the pubs. “Why
can’t The Valley make its own beer
on Murray water, establish an inland
brewery and so decentralise industry?”
For breweries did operate at the Darling-
Murray towns of Wentworth and Wil-
cannia from the ’7o’s to the ’9o’s ; and
good beer, too. In the ’7o’s-’Bo’s two
breweries made beer at Wentworth, only
clc ;ing because Adelaide offered cheap
be r ex-steamer. In the ’Bo’s-’9o’s Ed.
R~sch built a brewery at Wilcannia, tvith
“Now make him sway about!"
John Burke as manager later, supplying
Broken Hill by teams until Adelaide sent
beer there by rail. Then Resch went to
Sydney. AH of which shows that good
beer could be made inland under present
favorable conditions.
QUEER ALLIANCES
TTAVE any of the Abo. intelligentsia
known, personally, a plover-like Aus-
tralian bird to feed in the mouths of
crocodiles?
Reports to this effect have been made
from time to time, but no one seems to
be definite on the point. The nearest sub-
stantial evidence relates to the willy-
wagtail, which is said to snap-up insects
in the croc.’s gape, just as it snatches flies
at the noses of cattle and horses in other
parts.
There need be no doubt about the
activities of “crocodile-Blrds” in various
countries. Records in point date back to
Herodotus —who saw plovers on the job
beside the Nile round about 400 b.c. —
and since then the practice has been
reported from both Malaya and the West
Indies. In each case the evidence sug-
gests amiability on the part of the croc.
Various other birds, and notably the
cattle-egret (which has lately been spread-
ing in Australia), have often been
observed using land-mammals as ban-
queting tables, but it wasn't until recently
I struck another example of a bird making
use of a denizen of the water.
This bobbed up in the Disney film
“African Lion,” and the shot depicted
what was termed a lily-trotter feeding on
the back and head of a hippopotamus.
In its quest for insects the bird ambled
over every available part of the hippo
and even pried into each ear —this without
the slightest objection on the part of the
wallowing beast.
Since the commentary had nothing to
say on the episode, it would appear that
the makers of the film didn’t realise they
had chanced to get something unusual,
but in fact there is no reference to this
practice, as far as 1 can discover, in any
of the African bird-books. Apparently
the film-makers fluked the shot while
parked in a hide awaiting the appearance
of the hippo.
This “hippo-bird” is one of two mem-
bers of its group native to Africa. Others
inhabit Asia and South America, and
there is a single species in Australia, one
that mainly frequents northern areas but
is found as far south as swampy areas
immediately west of Sydney.
All of these lily-trotters, or jacanas—
usually called lotus-birds in Australia—
are plover-like in body and have longish
legs and very long toes, so that they are
able to wander or skip lightly over flat
masses of vegetation, such as lily-leaves,
growing in water.
Whatever the fancies of its relatives
elsewhere, Australia’s lily-trotter doesn’t
patronise beasts. Hippos are in short
supply in this country, and a bird with
toes several inches long wouldn't go too
well on the back of a platypus.
CISTICOLA.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
Productivity Plans
QIXTEEN companies with
plants in South Sydney
are associating to exchange
ideas on increasing factory
production, with all the study
and research that that implies.
. The need for productivity to
solve our main national
economic problems has been a
strong Bulletin theme since
the end of the war, but only
comparatively recently has the
fundamental need for greater
productivity been aired pub-
licly in other quarters. Cer-
tainly in Government quarters
the subject was discreetly
avoided—even in Canberra—
and it is refreshing also to note
a change even there over the
past 12 months.
Though the incidence of the
40-hour week on a young
country like Australia is
generally avoided in public
comments (except by the Tariff
Board), there has been con-
structive discussion from Can-
berra along other lines. The
Treasury, in 1957 and Beyond,
recently pointed out that Aus-
tralia is rich in natural
resources, though by no means
in all. Through past develop-
ment these resources have been
brought partly into use, and
we have built up capital
facilities that serve most of our
current requirements, even if
not as efficiently as, we desire.
We are adding fairly rapidly
to our labor force through
migration and natural increase,
the publication went on. These,
no doubt, are the foundations
for an effort to expand output
further. But the process has
to be conceived as something
much more than a straight-
forward extension of present
activities along present lines.
Effort must also lean heavily
on increasing productivity. On
that side it has to be pictured
as a many-sided effort to dis-
cover new resources, to make
better uses of present resources,
and in general to get better
results from all kinds of pro-
ductive effort. “Exploration
obviously has a place in it; so
has research in various forms ;
so have industrial manage-
ment, labor relations, technical
and scientific training and
capital replacement every-
thing, in fact, that can help to
improve the efficiency of the
economy in terms of output per
unit of resources or effort.
Obviously it extends to public
administration and, indeed, to
general economic policy so far
as that affects the distribution
of resources and the economical
use of them.”
Productivity in this wide
sense, says the report, has a
special importance in the
economic problem of this
country. For one thing, we are
today, and through any relevant
period must remain, a numeri-
cally small people, conducting
much of our production on a
relatively small scale, so that
the advantages which some
other countries gain from large-
scale production are not so
widely available to us. No
doubt our position in this
respect will improve as our
economy grov/s ; that is indeed
one of our gains inherent in
expansion.
In the meantime, the official
document says, it is un-
doubtedly a handicap, and we
must endeavor to make up for
it through superior efficiency
and high-quality standards.
“That may seem a tall order for
a young country, but it need
not be an impossible one. Not
a few small countries manage
to hold front economic rank,
even under the fierce competi-
tion of today, through the sheer
merit of their industrial per-
formance ; and some industries
in Australia . have already
shown that it is not beyond us
to do the same.”
“Nothing But the Best”
CJ HAREMARKET activity
remains brisk, with B.H.P.
over 495. (the rights could be
got at 20s. a few months ago),
A.C.I. over 635., C.S.R. at £46
(<ex £1 div.) and other front-
rankers in similar demand.
Second-liners continue to be
bought much more cautiously ;
still, every now and again
one bolts through—A.R.C. last
week (to over 305.), for-
instance. But not all these
second - liners are stayers,
though Reichhold, another
spectacular youngster, has
maintained its place better
than most.
One city retailer to hold its
position well has been Myers,
in Melbourne. Its ss. shares
sold last week at 19s. 6d.
Except from the chain-stores
and suburban shops, most
reports from other retailers
are drab. Burns Philp has
“Well, I suppose Wed better get ready for today's
consultations .”
recorded a noticeable falling-
off in sales by some of its
country stores over the past
three months. .
John Mcllwraith
HTHE setback in the earnings
-*• of General Industries, Ltd.,
makers (through Metters and
other subsidiaries) of stoves,
baths, sinks, refrigerators, etc.,
hasn’t upset the market for the
shares of John Mcllwraith
Industries, Ltd., which makes
baths and similar builders’
fittings, but which has a bigger
business in plumbers’ require-
ments and general hardware.
Last week the 10s. ords. in
John Mcllwraith rose to 225.
The div. has been a well-
covered 124- p.c. for the past
six completed financial years,
and the recent interim was
maintained.
The Deluded Investor
TOURING the earlier post-
war years, more especi-
eally during the period of
tightest economic “controls”
and greatest inflation, The
Bulletin emphasised the fact
that the investor was coming
off a bad last in “the new
order”—a specious state of
affairs that had its roots in pre-
war political promises and in
the Welfare State that blos-
somed more fully after the
war.
On fixed-interest securities
the effect of inflation and
“controls” was most devastat-
ing. A 3 p.c. Government stock
not only depreciated invisibly
in real value with the decline
in purchasing-power of money
and money-investments; it
actually dropped visibly in
market-value when “controls”
could no longer hold the
interest-rate at 3 p.c. and the
rate went to, say, p.c. or
4 p.c.
Depreciation in the buying-
power of the currency has
fallen (comparatively) from £1
in 1939 to about 6s. at present.
Any loss in market-value adds
to this, of course.
In the case of ordinary
shares in public companies,
most dividends fell during the
war, and even where the rate
recovered to, say, a pre-war
rate of 10 p.c. after the war
the recipient was worse-off
roughly to the extent of the
increase in the basic wage,
which is a near-enough index
in the buying-power of the
currency (though a “prosperity”
loading has made real wages
a little better over the years).
For several years after the
war we saw the spectacle of
wages rising every quarter, but
dividends (especially during the
period of price-control) barely
moving at all. For several
years after the war statistics
produced by the Common?
wealth Bank made this very


Cope y*
QUEENSLAND
\
* 1
NEW SOUTH WALES
r^V
VICTOWA^'V
/ALES J
"From
Cope York
to
Portland"-
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir CUve
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Ivimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N.' Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the ltiverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson. C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
Tlie Hon. Sir Graham Waddell. K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C. t Bertram
J. F. Wright, M'.B.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: A. B. Tileinann. Assistant Manager: A. G. W.
Dent. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District Repre-
sentative for Newcastle: H B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenreley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charlevlile.
UT23
clear. Since then there has
been some improvement, but
the spectacular figures of the
“takeover” episodes and the
revaluation and bonus-issue
developments are by no means
typical of the whole of industry.
Certainly not of B.H.P. Cer-
tainly not of Burns Philp.
Certainly not of C.S.R., British
Tobacco, A.C.1., or Henry
Jones. Although shareholders
have put post-war pounds into
some of these concerns, and
the present dividend-rate is
more favorable on post-war
investment than on the pre-war
portion, the overall position is
that shareholders have not
maintained purchasing-power
in the income from their invest-
ment. This is particularly so
where premiums have been
charged on new share-issues.
This whole matter has
recently been gone into more
precisely by officers of the
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.,
which has been speaking in an
insistent voice for several years
about capital-erosion through
inadequate taxation allowances
for depreciation.
As has been given publicity
lately by the daily press,
in an appendix to South
Pacific Enterprise (a C.S.R.
history), it is demonstrated that
in the case of 25 representative
companies, allowing for the fall
in the buying-power of money,
the average real dividend,
allowing for bonus and other
issues, was only 6 p.c. p.a. over
a period of 35 years, and there
was a loss of capital equal to a
minus dividend of 0.4 p.c.
A similar exercise was carried
out for the period of 17.3 years
from February, 1937. This
showed the average real
dividend p.a. to be 3.2 p.c. and
the capital loss 2.9 p.c. p.a.
“It is worthy of comment,
too [says the book], that since
1940 the investors would have
to pay full personal income-
tax on the dividends. It is
obvious, therefore, that over
the period of 17.3 years the
overall net result, after payment
of personal taxes, must be a
minus quantity.”
Although the position at
present is more stable, there
was a time, more especially
prior to 1951, when, as The
Bulletin pointed out, mer-
chants turning-over stock were
in reality “selling themselves
poor.” In many cases the
stock they sold during the year,
including their margin of profit,
did not bring in enough money
to replace the same physical
amount of new stock at the
next year’s prices.
This sort of rat-race, as has
been mentioned, has now
slackened a bit in pace,
but in its place there has
developed the danger of losing
on stock that is now slow to
move under changing economic
conditions! A number of firms
have recently lost quite heavily
on stock, and they include
some concerns which certainly
didn’t make an excess of paper-
money profit even during the
inflationary years.
The investor has had the
roughest trot of any section of
the community in the last 18
years, and the country is
visibly suffering from the fact.
When thrift has no rewards,
who is going to be fool enough
to create capital? The recent
publication of the Common-
wealth Treasury, 1957 and
Beyond, tacitly admits that
Governments don’t create
capital.
Geiger Goes Ahead
A TIME when so many
experienced retail traders
are finding it difficult to main-
tain profits (and when the
majority of smaller shops in the
softgoods trade are reporting
a freeze) has been chosen by
Kurt Geiger, the dynamic
chairman of Hicks, Atkinson,
Melbourne retailers, for
another £500,000 deal.
Geiger has now bought
Danks’s six-story building in
Rourke-street for £300,000 and
Aynsley Building in Little
Collins-street for £130,000,
which will be linked under-
ground with Hicks’s present
building running from Collins-
street to Little Collins. Recently
he bought a smaller adjoining
building, and leased and bought
other premises.
Geiger’s course is set, in
general, by the prognostications
of W. S. Robinson, the Prime
Minister and Lord Baillieu
that the future is All Fair ; but
Melbourne ’Change reckons he
has a dollar-wind behind him.
In the recent past, Geiger
bought the Forster Carpet Co.,
a sound, old business, for
£105,000 ; acquired a shopping-
centre in Toorak’s limited
village for £40,000, and secured
80ft. of the frontage of Scott’s
Hotel in Collins-street West.
All these acquisitions, too,
were made on behalf of Hicks,
Atkinson, Ltd. (merged with
the Geiger group two years
ago), which Geiger has given
a blithe, imaginative appear-
ance and Continental character.
More Trade Missions
[From Canberra]
TTHE fruitful results of John
G. Hurley’s 37-man trade-
mission to India and Ceylon
should hammer home to the
Federal Government and
tralian primary and secondary
producers that we must become
a nation of hustlers if we are to
collar new Asian markets worth
many millions of pounds a
year.
A resurgent Asia is clamor-
ing for an endless variety of
products, many of which we
have in abundance, but Asians
aren’t likely to know this unless
we make a special point of
telling them.
Hurley’s mission found
Indians amazed that we had
any worth-while secondary
industries and that we had


UAL
Ql
W
ATER
*
WATER SOFTENERS
For the home
[n Industry
In Hurd Water Areas
• Steam Raising Plants for Hospitals.
• Manufacturing Processes.
• Manual, Semi-automatic, Fully Automatic.
9 Specialised equipment for Farm and Station
Purposes.
FELTRITE Water Filters
Clear, crystal water for
every purpose. The home,
Institute use, Industry,
Swimming Pools, Town
Supply. Specialised equip-
ment for Farm and Station
purposes.
DEIONIZATION
This makes it possible to
obtain a water which is
the equivalent of a triple
distilled water, free from
all dissolved solids, and at
a fraction of the cost of
distillation.
W. G. UTTiNS & CO. PTY. LTD,.
T. & G. Building,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE. 88998 - 85097
Contractors to State and Commonwealth Governments.
Manufacturers of all types of Water Treatment
Plants, both Industrial and Domestic.
GUARD
suJ-Lish/ ci/
PROTECTA
(lfgUiUiEhg
<%>
Suitable for every type of business It records
all Sales. Credits. Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE •
ADELAIDE
PERTH .
W. C. Pen fold St Co, Pty. Lt«„
• Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd*
« Vardon Price Ltd.
• Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
enough goods to go round and
allow the export of a sizeable
proportion.
The mission completed
negotiations which are
guaranteed to sell India and
Ceylon an extra £3-million-
worth of goods next year and
add a steady £2 million to our
annual export earnings.
This is no idle boast, as the
Trade Department is the first to
admit; in fact, the department
says with some pride that it
sponsored the mission and
chose Mr. Hurley to lead it.
That such a small mission
(37 to a population of 400
million) could accomplish a
permanent trade-increase of £2
mllion a year is clear proof to
the department that bigger,
more representative and more
frequent missions to India and
other parts of Asia could open
up big new possibilities for
Australian exporters.
Mr. Hurley is home with the
message that Australia must
impress Asia that she has
plenty of competitive goods to
sell immediately.
He has forecast that the
Indian woollen industry will
expand to the point where
India will rival Japan as a
bu Y er Australian wool,
There is no doubt that Mr.
Hurley, with his long experi-
ence as a leading Australian
businessman (he is joint
managing-director of Berlei,
Ltd., and immediate past-
president of the Associated
Chambers of Manufactures),
knows what he is talking about
when he says his mission
formed “a permanent beach-
head on the economic shores
of India.”
Now that we have the foot-
hold don’t let us merely dig
in : , et us advance and regard
„ fAia as , po!entia i
, & u
market.
Only the closest co-operation
between the department and
manufacturers’ representatives
c , an solve th u ese t oh[e f ms and
thus op J n th f B ates f ° r
unta PP ed markets east of Suez.
In Mr. Hurley’s party all but
he and the mission’s secretary
“Somehow I never can remember whether it’s
today or yesterday .”
paid their own fares and
expenses.
One thing is certain: if Aus-
tralia (either the Government
alone or a combination of
Government and private enter-
prise) does not chase after the
Eastern markets other
countries, including Russia, will.
“Picture Post” Passes
TN Britain the “Picture Post”
has just closed down, not-
withstanding that it had a
circulation over 700,000 each
week.
Commenting, the “Man-
chester Guardian” said: “In
the past six months three daily
newspapers and at least four
weeklies have disappeared.
Now ‘Picture Post’ is closing
down, and a merger of the
‘News Chronicle’ and the
‘Daily Herald’ is at any rate
being discussed, although it
may not come about.
“No wonder there is
concern about the future of
the newspaper-industry. The
causes of trouble have been
evident for some time—
greatly increased costs with-
out a comparable increase in
revenue. And, although the
great majority of newspapers
will weather the storm, more
casualties must be expected
The cost of newsprint has
increased sixfold since before
the war... .Television has
inevitably taken away some
advertising that might have
gone to newspapers, and at the
same time the freeing of news-
print has permitted the most
popular papers to increase their
size and so attract advertising
that might have gone to
others.”
In commenting editorially
under the head of “Death of
a Magazine,” the “Financial
Times” pointed out that
“Picture Po9t” was vulnerable
to the rising cost of paper and
printing, and “its characteristic
methods of presentation have
been largely superseded by the
advent of television, and
public taste has shifted away
from pictorial magazines of
this type.”
The folding of “Picture
Post” is the greatest shock in
the publishing business since
the “Collier’s” group in the
United States closed down
towards the end of last year.
In Australia the “Argus” in
Melbourne ceased publication
a few months ago.
A chill breeze is blowing
through the Australian pub-
lishing-industry today. Credit-
restriction has affected some
manufacturers and retailers,
and advertising appropria-
tions have shrunk correspond-
ingly. But publishing costs
continue to rise.


rMktXttWtHZttttHZ
my
m
m
Wm*
y\ /\
4/
PJ
Australian Wool Bureau
Fashion memo for men:
-for comfort .. .-for warhrfch-
Pamper your feet this winter keep them warm
and comfortable in pure wool socks.
Wool socks are so light, and yet wonderfully warm
—and pure wool is so kind to your feet. Wool has
a natural “cushioned” feel softens hard pave-
ments ... makes walking more enjoyable..
Fashion-wise too, wool socks are tops. Whether
you prefer long socks or short socks you can
choose from the smartest designs in all the
colours imaginable.
Give your feet a treat — wear wool socks.
THERE IS NO SUBSTITUTE FOR
INSERTED BY THE AUSTRALIAN WOOL BUREAU
WOOL
El 28
/\ /\
i
sffiiwjSfe -m
m
m
f; V
m
lil
sSS
-W /'■
■••••/--
*<llll mm
m
mm
<<«&
S^r;i
HHEI
?
Jill
*W
vv
IbshM
ms
'•V-v-A-


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Borovansky Ballet
After she had danced “Swan
Lake” Margot Fonteyn
appeared in some danger of
drowning in wave after wave of
applause rolling forward from
the audience to the stage at
Sydney Empire. Her appear-
ance —small, remarkably large
eyes, and with a swathe of red
roses held against her white
costume —was a beautiful
summary of what had gone
before: two white ballets, “Les
Sylphides” and “Swan Lake,”
with, in a moment of genius,
the scarlet brilliance of the
pas de deux from “Don
Quixote” dropped in between
them.
“Les Sylphides,” always the
loveliest of ballets, was as it
should be changing and
enchanting < white patterns, all
mist and moonlight, and with
Peggy Sager so light and so
lyrical that one marvelled at
the art concealing her tech-
nical virtuosity. Joan Potter
and Mary Gelder also danced
exquisitely, so that one thought,
a little defiantly, that what was
to follow from the visitors from
Covent Garden would have to
be very good indeed.
Then the curtain went up
on Rowena Jackson and Bryan
Ashbridge, standing motion-
less and yet with an electric
tension about them so that the
flash of gold from their scarlet
costumes might almost have
been sparks. They danced in
this spectacular brevity—Miss
Jackson as swift and supple as
a whip at one moment and as
precise as a splinter of steel
the next; and Ashbridge so
light and lithe and graceful that
he seemed hardly to need the
stage under him —like two hot
comets and the impression
of them seemed to stay in the
eyes long after the curtain
went down.
“Swan Lake,” coming cool
and white after the pas de deux
from “Don Quixote,” called for
a slight readjustment of the
senses, just as watching the
extraordinary fluidity and soft-
ness of the Fonteyn’s dancing
after Miss Jackson’s brief and
spectacular display of vir-
tuosity called for a quick
adjustment of values —one is
too easily tempted to com-
parisons on the insufficient
evidence of two ballets.
The Fonteyn’s version of the
Swan Princess seems aimed at
softness and gentleness
timidity, almost —so that one
thought, appropriately enough,
perhaps, of a bird half-held,
half-terrified. That, of course,
is a long way from the im-
perious, frozen heartbreak that
Peggy Sager made of the role
—and which one will never
forget—but there was no mis-
taking the emotions behind the
almost Japanese docility of the
Fonteyn’s performance; the
silent cry of grief as she
retreated so perfectly into
the shadows ; or, . just pre-
viously, the flashing display of
dancing which said so plainly,
so convincingly, and so beauti-
fully, “See what I can do.”
One still had, of course, an
eye for the Fonteyn’s partner,
Michael Somes, a trifle mus-
cular, but superbly sure and
safe to be tossing around such
a fragile and valuable morsel
as the Fonteyn ; and, after that,
who could but be fascinated by
the swans —a charming flurry
of birds with lovely unswan-
like legs, turned-up tails and
waggling bottoms.
The cheerful good humor of
“Pineapple Poll,” with
Kathleen Gorham’s sparkling
personality, and Vassilie
Trunoff’s and John Auld’s
clever dancing and comedy,
effectively concluded as im-
pressive a programme as one is
likely to see for a long time.
❖ ❖ *
“Camino Real”
Don Quixote, Sancho Panza,
Casanova, Lord Byron, a
champion boxer, courtesans,
street-cleaners and sundry
other types of humanity in
travail hump the bluey along
the royal road which leads to
nowhere in Tennessee
Williams’s “Camino Real.”
The play currently pre-
Margot Fonteyn, “Swan Lake," etc., at Sydney Empire—an Unk White impression.
sented by both the Independent
Theatre, North Sydney, and by
Melbourne University’s Mar-
lowe Society—is so packed with
down - and-outers, deadbeats,
no-hopers, B.A.s (failed) and
other symbols of hope frus-
trated, all treading on one
another’s heels and all obsessed
with their own excuses and
oblivious of one another’s, that
a producer could be forgiven
if he carried out Tennessee
Williams’s prescription by
giving up before starting on
the project.
Mr. Williams takes such a
hopeless view of mankind that
he makes even Casanova into
something more like a
suburban curate than a mighty
lover, so much so that the tale
of his innumerable liaisons
carries no conviction whatso-
ever. As one character says, “I
see nothing and beyond that
more nothing, and beyond that
still more nothing.” In fact,
the only individual in the play
who retains some shred of
dignity is Byron, who, with
his clubfoot, his loneliness
and his trail of deserted
women, still maintains his
belief in poetry. The rest are
unanimous in believing in their
own excuses.
The play centres round a
washed-up American boxer,
Kilroy, who, like the others,
has drifted, half by chance and
half by inevitability, into the
Camiao Real. Ross Blair pre-
sented him with vigor and
understanding in the Mel-
bourne performance, and
Wayne Polzin does likewise in
Sydney.
Doris Fitton producing in
Sydney, and Wal Cherry in
Melbourne, do a magnificent
job in marshalling their forces
on stages by no means large
enough for Mr. Williams’s
heterogeneous collection of
characters.
* * *
Katherine Dunham
Having whirled their exotic
way around Australia and New
Zealand, Katherine Dunham
and her dancers are back at
Sydney Tiv. for a short fare-
well season. They finish next
Saturday night, and anyone
who hasn’t seen them by then
will have missed something.
And if, after Miss Dunham
herself, her remarkably talented
company and their repertoire


The KEROSINE
used by the
ANTARCTIC EXPEDITION
S3*
m) CORAUTE
burns WARMER,
CLEANER, BETTEI
k
KNIOI
* It’s easier and there’s
m saving if you bring your
own container.
You can buy* Coralite
Kerosine by the tin where
you see these pumps , , .
SUPES
ALSO OBTAINABLE AT SELECTED STORES.
C.O.R AGENTS AND DEPOTS
Marketed by THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD, an associate of
The British Petroleum Company Ltd
of everything from primitive
rituals to sambas, tangos, etc.,
anyone wants another good
reason for seeing the show, it
is Vanoye Aikens, the leading
male dancer. In his own
medium, Mr. Aikens is every
bit as lithe, graceful and
expressive as the dancers in the
classical tradition at Sydney
Empire.
❖ ❖ *
“Double Image”
What was “Double Image”
like?
The show at Melbourne
Comedy? Like nothing on
earth.
You didn’t like it?
Oh, yes, I did—thoroughly
enjoyed it. I always enjoy
guessing-competitions.
Is that all it was —nothing
profound or important about
it?
Oh, yes, there was. The
important question was
whether the murderer of
Uncle Ernest was Julian, his
nephew, or David, Julian’s
twin-brother, supposing he
existed, which was highly
problematical. There was also
the profound question as to
whether Julian hadn’t murdered
Uncle Ernest in a schizophrenic
mood, when he was a different
Julian altogether.
Sounds complicated.
Yes, and more so because of
the remarkable performance of
Emrys Jones, the Welsh actor,
who succeeded so admirably in
sometimes looking and behav-
ing like Julian, sometimes like
his brother, and sometimes like
the schizophrenic Julian that
neither the police nor his wife,
let alone the audience, knew
who he was at any given
moment.
Doesn’t he give himself away
at all?
Oh, yes. Julian —if it is
Julian —doesn’t smoke, while
his brother—if it is his brother
—does, which" fact Inspector
Gordon astutely discovers by
offering one or the other of
them a cigarette.
So that finished the show #nd
the real murderer was taken
off to the lock-up?
By no means. There was no
reason why the schizophrenic
half of Julian, if it existed,
which isn’t proven, didn’t have
lodged in its unconscious a
desire to smoke and that is why
he went schizophrenic.
Was that all?
By no means. Julian or his
twin brother, or Julian’s
schizophrenic half, spends a
night with Julian’s wife, Mrs.
Fanshaw, and Mrs. Fanshaw
enjoys it very much although
the previous six years of their
marriage has been a dismal
failure.
Well, what harm did that
do?
None whatever. But when
Mrs. Fanshaw’s mother hears
about it she nearly throws a fit
and demands divorce
proceedings.
Getting more complicated
than ever.
You’re telling me! The
audience was asked to contem-
plate at least seven possible
situations, including the situa-
tion where Julian, as plaintiff,
would be suing Julian, as co-
respondent.
Then how did the authors
work the thing out?
The ingenuity of authors
MacDougall and Allan gave
out at that point, fortunately
for everybody, including Mr.
Emrys Jones, who by that time
looked pretty well exhausted
and in some doubt as to who
he was or whether he existed
at all.
Summing up?
The show was entertaining
and reasonably well acted and
everyone went home happy.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Confidential Clerk”
T. S. Eliot’s latest verse-play,
“The Confidential Clerk,”
made its Brisbane debut in a
capable performance by players
of the Brisbane Arts Theatre.
The plot is a straightforward
one that goes back to Wilde and
Gilbert for its situations. In
it, foundlings gain and lose
parents with dizzying rapidity
until everyone’s parentage is
established in a scene that
would be pure nineteenth-
century farce if Eliot had not
managed to keep it in hand.
Uis dialogue overlays the
action with a serious discussion
on the nature of personality
that is skilfully and movingly
handled.
The verse conforms to
Eliot’s own conception of
dramatic verse. There is no
prose in the play, but the
verse is flat for the ordinary
everyday business of the plot
and rises to the level of poetry
only when the emotion of a
scene demands it. That this
is not very often does not
damage the play as an enter-
tainment. The gently insistent
rhythm of the lines holds the
attention very effectively with-
out ever lulling the audience to .
sleep.
This was an achievement for
the cast in Clare Clark’s pro-
duction. They spoke the verse


Grasslands Farming Equipment
requests the company of
The Man on the Land
to attend
OUR SHEEP SHOW EXHIBIT
and
A Field Day at Our Farm
on
SATURDAY. JUNE 8. AT 2 P.M.
Where you will see:
The Grasslands Forage Harvester in Green Lot Feeding
also
The Grasslands "Rainline" Automatic Irrigation
in Labour Free Pasture Irrigation
For further details please see us at the show—we are looking
forward to meeting YOU.
unselfconsciously, and were not
embarrassed by the presence of
a chorus. In the title role of
the young man who tried hard
to emulate the wrong father,
Len Wintour coped well with
the difficult task of listening for
long periods to other actors
while remaining silent himself
in the centre of the action.
As the girl who was falling in
love with him until she dis-.
covered she was apparently his
sister, Berys Marshall was
sharply sensitive to every twist
of the dialogue. Betty Ross, an
old hand at adding an enter-
taining touch of malice to a
part, was a society dame who
drew laughs as she delved
around in her memories in
search of the son she mislaid
years before. He bobbed up
inevitably as a member of the
cast, and was played with a
long-suffering tolerance by
Hugh Cornish.
The husband was Brian
Cannon, an actor who can
suggest a polished urbanity
very capably, though more
vitality would have added
something to his picture of a
man whose interest in produc-
ing children began well before
his marriage. Alfred Race, as
a retired confidential clerk,
organised the series of con-
fessions and explanations that
wound-up the plot..
D. J. M.
Artbursts
The Light of Asia
If a festival is going to be
called a festival it ought to be
reasonably festive ; and
whether it was because he was
constantly tripping-up over
TV equipment and mistaking it
for modern sculpture on press-
day- or whether there really
wasn’t much to see, or at any
rate much new to see, this
commentator didn’t exactly
feel that the Festival of Asia
exhibition at the N. S. Wales
National Gallery exploded like
a galaxy of skyrockets.
It did not, like the shelves
of Ming vases in the British
Museum, leave you feeling that
you had dived into the sea’s
richest caves of submarine blue
and green. It did not even
include the galloping wild pony
that always so much enlivens
the Chinese scrolls in the Mel-
bourne Gallery.
Still, there are bits and
pieces: a very nice mauve-and-
green parrot, for instance
(Ch’ien-lung period, 1736-
1795), with the most remark-
able porcelain feathers on the
back of its neck.
And it is always pleasant to
meet again the sumptuous
greens upon which elephants
and white ponies fought in the
Indian Mogul period (1620) ;
or Hokusai’s famous stylised
wave that threatens to over-
whelm the whole of Japan ; or
(when they are not merely
smudgy, like some azaleas
from the 19th century), the
charming Chinese scrolls such
as Huang Chun-pi’s (contem-
porary) “Chungking Mountain
Scene” or Li Kang’s (late
Ch’ing) “Resting Birds in
Winter” —which are not resting
at all but tumbling prettily in
all directions.
The exhibition seems to have
been rather hastily put to-
gether, with borrowings from
private collections and other
Australian galleries, to help
the Asian students in Australia
hold their Festival of Asia.
♦> ❖ ❖
Melbourne Exhibitions
The Victorian Artists’
Society’s autumn show suggests
th it practically every artist in
it is standing in his stirrups,
digging his spurs in and
whipping-up his Pegasus to the
last gasp in pursuit of Matisse,
Modigliani, Cezanne or
Picasso.
The exhibition incorporates
the E. T. Cato £lOO art-
prize, divided equally between
oils and watercolors.
William Frater’s “Landscape,”
a simple and somewhat unsub-
stantial view of gumtrees which
possibly owes something to
Cezanne, cantered home in the
oils division. Eric Thake
collected the other £5O on the
strength of a rather funny
cartoon representing a fat
connoisseur bending double in
the effort to see all round a
Greek vase in the National
Gallery.
The best piece of work in
the exhibition —and the most
remote from current fashions
—is Lesley Sinclair’s “King-
street.”
Films
“The Searchers”
Here, thrown on the wide
screen at Sydney Regent, and
against a rugged strip of Texas
sand and stone, is John Wayne
in a role that fits him like his
favorite snarl.
As a late-returning Con-
federate soldier he finds brief
abode in his brother’s remote
log-cabin, only to see it razed,,
under his nose almost, by a
tribe of wandering Comanches.
In the ruins are his brother, his
brother’s wife and their son,
the Indians having taken the
two daughters.
Teeth clenched, Wayne and
Jeffrey Hunter, as the half-
Indian adopted son of his
brother’s family, set-out to
track them down. Producer
John Ford, whip in hand,
drives them on a five-year
search ; and only when he puts
down the whip to get some
hard-wrung humor from a
mock-marriage does the film
lose its grip.
As the all-knowing, unruffled,
(Continued on page 83)


The WILD CAL
COLUMN
General Industries, Ltd.
DAD timing of its ambitious expansion
programme seems to be the principal
criticism that can be levelled” at General
Industries, Ltd., which has just recorded
its first loss in 22 years of trading.
Misgivings about the wisdom of the
co.’s entry into the increasingly competi-
tive area of refrigerator manufacture
(where most of last year’s difficulties
occurred) were expressed at the time
the decision was made in 1955. Then, to
finance the venture, expand the activities
of Metters, Ltd. (Sydney), and Metters
K.F.B. Pty. (Melbourne), making the
traditional lines of stoves, baths, gas-
heaters, builders’-hardware, etc., and take
up a half share-interest (£100,000) in
television-receiver manufacturer Admiral
of Australia (Pty.), the co. went to share-
holders for £1,699,144 of new ord.
capital, all but £24,589 of which had
been subscribed when the 1956 term
ended.
Tn that year Sovereign Appliances Pty.,
the refrigerator offshoot, operating in the
old premises of Rotafrig Pty., made an
unstated loss, the slower pace of home-
building held the Metters cos. in check,
and consolidated earnings showed an
abrupt drop of £101,144.
Last term Sovereign Appliances lost
£212,315, and the parent and other sub-
sidiaries turned in profits aggregating
£176,824, leaving a debit balance in the
group’s p. and 1. account of £35,491.
Depreciation provisions absorbed
£244,413 (up £42,492) and taxation
£116,710 (down £198,187):
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends —^
Pref. To Re— Re—
Feb., Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1952 274.352 20.851 10p.c.=128,500 J 25.001 466,142
Depreciation written back, £42,380 . . 508,522
1953 239,080 20,851 10p.c.=150,921 67,308 575,830
Tax overprovided, £BO,OOO .. ..655,830
Unexplained reduction, £18,913 ..636,197
1954 340,624 20,851 10p.e.=188,271 131,502 768.419
Unexplained reduction, £4397 .. ..764,022
T9t>s 407,074 33.278 10p.c.=188,270 185.526 949,548
Unexplained reduction, £4030 .. ..945,518
1956 305,930 46,620 10p.c.=232,582 26,728 972,246
To staff fund, £91,617 880,629
Loss.
1957 35,491 46.620 4p.c,=144,740 653,778
To cover the pref. charges and distribute
4 p.c. (down 6 p.c.) to the ords., reserves
were drawn on for £191,360.
Demand for refrigerators generally was
below expectations last year, and, because
of delays in the erection and equipping
of Sovereign’s new refrigerator-works at
Bankstown (N.S.W.), the co. wasn’t able
to get its models on to the market until
the season was well advanced.
The dwindling rate of home-construc-
tion meant, too, less activity in Metters
Sydney, Perth and Adelaide factories. In
Melbourne, Metters K.F.B. Pty. appears
to have fared much better, though profit
was also down on the previous year.
Better results were reported for the
newest offshoot, Grimwood Electrical
Products Pty., which makes electric
cooking- and heating-elements for the
trade. Production was stepped-up and a
greater range of products is being turned
out. Still in its first year Admiral has yet
to produce any accounts, but it is said
to be working profitably.
In the balance-sheet finances took on
a tighter look:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref £066,060 £666,000 £666,000
Ord. .. ... 1,882,717 3,593,914 3,618,493
Reserves .. .. 949,548 880,629 b: 53,778
Registered notes. . 510,000 500,000 500,000
Overdraft . . .. 442,533 1,129,885
Creditors .. .. 494,441 610,460 582,049
Tax provision .. 504,327 608,695 447,220
Stgft' fund .. 50,000 150,000 140,781
Final div. .. 116,987 161,756 23,310
£5,616,553 £7,171,454 £7,761,516
Freeholds .. .. 1,020,323 1,304,209 1,687,010
Riant .. .. 1,351,729 1,664,897 2.007,091
Sh 'res other cos.. . 24,630 124,630 124,630
Loan assoc, co. .. - —« 65,000
Stocks . . . . 2,086,593 -3,016,722 2,772,632
Debtors, etc. .. 1,070,733 976,443 1,091,045
Cash ~ .. 62,545 84,553 14,108
£5,616,553 £7,171,454 £7,761,516
To meet the dividend-payment, spend a
net £724,995 on fixed assets, advance
£65,000 to Admiral and carry an extra
£114,602 book-debts, the co. worked
£244,090 off its stocks and borrowed
£1,129,885 from the bank.
In the fading sharemarket support
for the scrip the price of the f.-p. £1
ords. has dropped from around 28s. a
year ago to 16s. 9d. On a 4 p.c. div. a
purchase at that price gives an immediate
return of 4.7 p.c. The 7 p.c. prefs. are
at 18s. to return 7.8 p.c. Net asset cover
is £7 Bs. 4d. the prefs. and 235. 9d. the
ords.
Prospects for the current term appear
to be brighter. Both Sovereign and
Grimwood report improved sales, and
it is planned to develop the New Zealand
market for electric elements. Biggest
fly in the ointment, however, is the
continuing slackness in the building trades
within Australia.
Western Stores, Ltd.
A FTER several years of rapid and
profitable expansion, consolidation
rather than further growth appears to
have been the chief aim of the Western
Stores, Ltd., board last term. Floods
and excessive rain were experienced in
most of the areas served by the co.,
however, and net earnings for the year
dropped by almost 10 p.c.
A merchant and country storekeeper,
Western Stores operates mainly in the
central-west of N.S.W. The co. was
formed in 1928 to merge the interests of
Western Stores and Edgley and Co., and
traded as Western Stores and Edgleys,
Ltd., until May, 1956.
Over the years the co. has bought a
number of old-established businesses in
N.S.W., recent acquisitions including
Regans of Tamworth (retailers), James
Douglas and Co. (builders’ hardware and
timber-merchants, of Orange) and Squire
Pepper Pty. (retailers, Cowra). Branches
or subsidiaries in nine country centres
are controlled from the co.’s head office
at Dubbo.
Earnings have more than doubled
since 1950, the ord. div.-rate over the
same period averaging 14 p.c. The actual
return to shareholders, however, has been
even better, as bonus-scrip went out in
1951 (two shares for every five held) and
again in' 1954 (one-for-two).
Following a period of comparatively
high capital-expenditure (during which
several stores have been modernised and
cash payments have formed part of the
consideration for new subsidiaries),
122,540 £1 ords. were offered to share-
holders (one-for-five) at par early last
term. The new issue provided addi-
tional working-capital and lifted paid
capital, which includes £175,000 in 6 p.c.
prefs., to £1,390,390.
Floods during the first half of last
term affected many of the co.’s customers
and interfered with trading generally. As
a result, turnover for the year .(to
February 28 last) showed a “small
decrease,” and higher expenses, due in
part to the State land-tax/took a much
larger share of the lower income, net
profit falling by £23,052 to £214,212:
Parent and Subsidiary.|
f Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.*
A’ A! £ £ £
1952.. 154 10,500 15 p.c. 75,180 72,474 408,493
1953.. 349 10,500 15 „ „ 75,180 74,669 483,167
Tax overprovided, £30,000 .. .. 513,167
Parent and SuumiAiuEs.t
1954.. 322 10,500 15 p.c. = 84,600 105,222 618,389
Assets revalued, £282,000 .. .. 900,389
Reserves capitalised, £282,000.. .. 618,389
1955.. 10,500 13:ip.e.=103,306 105,475 723,864
.Share premiums, £64,312 .. .. 788,176
1956.. 264 10.500 124p.e.=124,692 102,072 890.24 S
1957.. 10,500 12* „ ~151,924 51,788 942,036
* Subject to intangibles, £62,634 at 28/2/’57. ,
t Alter eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
The earnings, claimed after providing
£33,941 (up £7319) for depreciation and
an unstated amount for tax, covered the
pref. div. and 16.7 p.c. on the larger ord.
capital as against 22.7, 27.8, 33.7 and
29.9 p.c. back to 1953. The ord. div.-
rate, lowered from 13 J p.c. to 12| p.c.
in 1956, was unchanged, but called for
an extra £27,232, scrip issued during the
term participating in both interim and
final divs.
Debtors were slower to pay their
accounts over the year, and book-debts
increased by £55,656 after deducting
a “substantial” provision for doubtful
debts:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref £175,000 £175,000 £175,000
Ord. .. .. 976,100 1,012,850 1,215,390
Reserves .. .. 723,804 890,248 942,036
Outside interests.. 26,250 25,000 25,000
Overdraft .. .. 142,429 311,028 108,736
Creditors:.. .. 149,035 167,653 144,349
Tax provision .. 246,371 229,972 290,583
Final divs. .. 66,256 68,553 81,212
£2,505,905 £2,880,304 £2,982,306
Freeholds, leaseholds 907,890 1,000,541 989,924
Plant, fittings, etc. 189,689 248,873 292,583
Shares .. .. 15,422 16,830 16,130
Stock .. .. 879,765 992,323 1,001,433
Debtors .. .. 445,667 525,418 581,074
Cash .. .. 22,488 32,960 38,528
Goodwill, etc. .. 44.984 63,359 62,634
£2,'505,905 £2,880,304 £2,982,306
Funds raised by the share-issue enabled
a big reduction in the overdraft (down
£202,292 at £108,736) and, with the


amount owing to creditors down by
£23,304, shareholders’ funds accounted
for 78.2 p.c. of the balance-sheet totals,
compared with 72.1 p.c. at the commence-
ment of the term. Freeholds, which
include York House in Sydney’s York-
street, are in the accounts at 1954 valua-
tion or subsequent cost.
Both turnover and earnings improved
over the final half of last term, but the
threat of a drought over a large area of
N.S.W. makes prospects for the current
term somewhat uncertain.
Rumors of a take-over bid by a large
Sydney retailer pushed the market-price
of the co.’s f.-p. £1 ords. from 375. to
455. last March, but the board promptly
announced that the rumor was “without
foundation,” and the scrip is now selling
at 375. 9d., to give buyers at this price
a 6.6 p.c. return from a p.c. div.
The consolidated accounts show a net
tangible backing of 345. 6d. for each ord.
share.
Miller Anderson, Ltd.
* , Dividends
Jan. 31, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
From tax provision, £12,000 .. 35,532
1948 .. 24,297 6 6 11,100 48,729
1919 .. 31,175 7 7 12,950 66,954
Unexplained addition, £5249 .. 72,203
1950 .. 28,615 7 7 12,950 87,418
1951 .. 35,98-5 8 8 20,000 103,403
1952 .. 35,137 8 8 20,000 118,540
1953 .. 33,325 8 ,8 20,000 131,865
1954 .. 37,516 8 8 20,000 149,381
1955 .. 41,726 8 10 23,400 167,707
Assets revalued, £263,373 .. .. 431,080
1956 .. 39,092 8 10, 24,250 445,9^2
1957 .. 35,373 8 10 28,500 452,795
r T'HE co.’s earning-power lost some of
its strength last term, but, all things
considered, it was a satisfactory enough
performance. * Sales were a record,
though competition was livelier and the
weather unseasonable. Financial charges
outside the control of the management,
such as taxes and rates, bore more heavily
on income, and price-control also helped
to keep profit-margins fine. Shortages
of imported goods were felt, too, though
this is less of a problem now.
The co. doesn’t go into details about
the provisions made in the accounts, but
to cover taxation, depreciation, renewals
and replacements and other contingencies
it set aside £33,250 (up £4850) before
arriving at the year’s profit, £3719 below
the figure claimed in the previous term.
The following table shows how trading
income has been supplemented in the
last two years by interest - and other
receipts, mainly rentals from the Theatre
Royal property:
1955. 1956. 1957.
Trading profit .. .. £77,550 £60.924 £57,334
Interest, etc. .. .. 1,309 6,568 11,289
£78,859 £67,492 £68,623
Tax, depreciation, etc. .. 37,133 28,400 33,250
Net profit .. .. £41,726 £39,092 £35,373
Allowing for the £6400 pref. divs., the
£35,373 profit was 13.1 p.c. on the
£221,000 of ord. capital as against 18.3
p.c. on the average paid-up figure in
1956 and 20.8 p.c. in 1955. It was enough
to support a 10 p.c. div. on the ords. and
leave something for reserves.
Begun almost a century ago, the busi-
ness became part of the Marcus Clark
organisation in 1927 after Marcus Clark
(Vic.) had bought all the issued ord.
scrip. When this co. went into liquida-
tion in 1943 the controlling-interest in the
South Australian business passed to the
parent Marcus Clark, of Sydney.
Some of the ords. are held by the
public, which is also interested in the
£BO,OOO of pref. . capital. It carries a
fixed cumulative 6 p.c. with the right to
participate with the ords. up to 8 p.c.
During the 1956 teem the co. bought
the Theatre Royal property next-door to
its freeholds in Hindley-street which,
after the manner of nomenclature of the
South Australian capital, is the continu-
ation, west from King William-street, of
Rundle-street, where Birks, Myers and
Martin’s are concentrated. Early last
‘ year part of the property was converted
to a carpet-showroom. At some future
date the board plans to rebuild on the
site.
Only minor additions were made to
fixed assets last term. Most of the extra
funds borrowed on mortgage went to
reducing bank overdraft:
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref. .. .. £BO,OOO £86,000 £8«,000
Old 170.000 221,000 221,000
Reserves .. .. 167,707 445,922 452,795
Mortgage .. 60,500 110,000 176,000
Creditors, etc. .. 104,285 157,404 110,523
Final divs. .. 13,400 12,550 14,250
£595,892 £1,026.876 £1,054,568
Land, buildings .. 179,761 622,012 624,273
Furniture, fittings 53,520 55,639 59,864
Stock .. .. 252,403 253,509 263,332
Debtors .. .. 100,383 95,269 106,652
Cash .. .. 9,525 447. 447
£595,892 £1,026,876 £1,05-1,568
When the books closed working capital
was £66,387 stronger (£245,658).
On Adelaide 'Change the £1 ords. sold
recently for 275. At that price the scrip
offers a return of 7.4 p.c. on the basis
of a 10 p.c. div. The prefs. were last
quoted at 21s. to yield 7.6 p.c. Net
tangibles are £9 Bs. sd. the prefs., 61s.
the ords.
Permewan Wright, Ltd.
’yLTHEN Permewan Wright, Ltd., was
formed in 1884 (to take over an
existing co.) the bulk of its income was
derived from the cartage and sale of
produce in country centres. The co.
later developed as a general merchant,
specialising in produce and farm- and
station-supplies, and, today, general
merchandising is its chief interest.
Permewan Wright has its head office in
Melbourne and trades through a chain
of 41 branch-stores, most of which are
in the wheat- and woolgrowing areas of
Victoria and N.S.W.
With nothing in the way of outside
investments to support trading-income,
the co.’s earnings tend to vary with the
fortunes of primary-producers. In order
to get a greater degree of stability more
emphasis has been placed, in recent years,
on developing the retail trade in groceries,
hardware and clothing, although sales
of farm-machinery, building-materials,
superphosphate, wire - netting, etc.,
continue to provide a large proportion of
total turnover.
A revaluation of freeholds was made
during 1956, the revaluation reserve being
credited with £379,153, but, according
to the chairman, “the issue of bonus-
shares is not at present contemplated by
the board.” Paid capital, all in £1 ords.,
is £700,000, the last share-issue being in
1954, when 200,000 £1 ords. were offered
to shareholders (two-for-five) at a
premium of ss.
During the first half of the year (to
January -31 last) trading in many areas
was seriously affected, or even suspended,
as a result of extensive floods; but,
although the decline in produce-sales,
noted in previous years, continued, turn-
over improved in the latter part of the
term, and appears to have been well
maintained. The gross earnings of the
co. and its small subsidiary edged
forward to £1,041,973 (up £4398), but
higher labor and operating costs
swallowed the gain, and a lot more
besides, to leave net profit down by
£21,798 at £82,129:
Parent and Subsidiary.
I’o Ke-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1953 .. 90.992 11 p.c. = 55.000 35,992 487.438
Capital loss. £1350 .. .. .. 480.086
1954 .. 113,296 12 p.o. = 60,000 53,296 539.382
Murray Shipping recovery, £245 .. 539.627
From tax provisions, £31,500 .. .. 571,127
Share-premiums, £50,000 .. ..
Unexplained additions, £4133 .. .. 625,260
1955.... 130,437 12 p.c. = 64,000 66,437 691,697
Unexplained addition, £1722 .. .. 693.419
1956 ..103,927 12 p.c. = 84,000 19,927 713,340
Revaluation freeholds, £379,153 .. 1,092.409
To contingency reserve, £10,900 ~ 1,103,399
To insurance reserve, £2840 .. .. 1,106,239
Profit sale assets, etc., £2972 .. 1,109,211
1957 .. 82,129 11 p.c. = 77,000 5.129 1,114,340
The div. rate was reduced from 12 p.c.
to 11 p.c. in line with the lower profit,
which was claimed after providing
£59,681 (down £14,102) for taxation and
£30,179 (down £3177) for depreciation,
and equalled a return of 11.7 p.c. on
share-capital compared with 14.8, 24.4,
22.6, 18.2 and 31.9'p.c. back to 1952.
The div. took most of the earnings, but
a more-or-less hidden reserve of £10,900
was transferred from the provision for
depreciation, and, with the large surplus
from the revaluation of freeholds,
reserves increased by £400,994.
The co.’s plans to develop certain
sections of its retail trade include the
modernisation of many of the branch-
stores, and, where applicable, the intro-
duction of self-service. Last term
expenditure on buildings and plant
Contributed £132,692 of the £511,845
added to the book-value of fixed assets:
F.W. and Subsidiary.
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. fiTOOiOOO £766,000 £700,000
Reserves .. .. 691,695 713,344 1,114,338
Outside interests.. 4 4 4
.. .. 100,000 100.000 100,000
Creditors* .. 784,846 738,979 952,525
lax provision .. 148,995 151,498 129,051
Final dividends .. 34,000 42,000 42,000
£2,459,540 £2,445,825 £3,037,91$
Property and plant 508,025 655,775 1,167,620
Stocks .. .. 1,091,192 1,039,730 1,035,343
Debtors .. .. 776,847 684,790 765,185
Cash, etc 83,676 65,530 69,770
£2,459,540 £2,445,825 £3,037,918
* Includes unspecified “provisions” and overdraft.
The board states that “the rate of turn-
over of book-debts has remained fairly
constant over the past two years,” the
larger amount owing by debtors (up
£80,395) resulting from an increase in
the proportion of credit sales towards the
close of the term rather than a lag in the
settlement of accounts. Either way it still
requires financing, and, with a further
drop in working capital (down £110,751


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
C.l. Australian and Overseas Patents
and Trade Marks.— Advt.
to £746,722) and a rebuilding
programme under way, the co.
issued £200,000-worth of 8 p.c.
notes early in the current term.
The notes mature in 1963, but
may be redeemed earlier at a
premium.
Rain is badly needed in
many parts of the country, and,
while a dry season would
stimulate the demand for
fodder, the market prices the
co.’s f.-p. £1 ords. at 295.
(against 38s. 3d. a year ago), to
return 7.6 p.c. from an 11 p.c.
div. Net tangible cover is
51s. lOd.
United' Uranium, N.L.
HTHE prospecting syndicate
J formed by United
Uranium, N.L., Loloma Gold
Mines (Fiji), N.L. and King
Island Scheelite (1947),' Ltd.,
has been granted an authority
tc-prospect over the whole of
the Maranboy tinfield,
approximately 40 miles east of
Katherine (N.T.).
United Uranium announced
recently that, apart from work-
ing its uranium-mine (in the
South Alligator valley), the co.
w;ould engage in preliminary
prospecting only and form
separate cos. to develop any
area considered promising.
Shareholders would, of course,
be invited to take-up scrip in
any new cos. formed as a
result of this policy.
Austral Malay Tin Group
gONUS-SCRIP is to be
issued next month by two
members of the Austral Malay
tinmining group, Austral
Malay Tin, Ltd., and Austral
Amalgamated Tin, Ltd. The
latter co. has revalued its four
dredges, writing-up their book-
value by £stg3 50,000, and will
issue seven f.-p. ss. shares for
every 10 held on June 18 next.
The Austral Malay gift is on
a one-for-one basis, and follows
revaluation of that co.’s invest-
ments (which include, a sub-
stantial holding in Austral
Amalgamated) and freeholds.
Three of the four operating
cos. in the group worked at a
profit last term. The fourth
co., Kampong Kamunting Tin
Dredging, Ltd., is investigating
areas at Kedah, Malaya, but
its dredge remained idle during
the term.
A prospecting and holding
co., Austral Malay Tin, is a
large shareholder in the operat-
ing cos. for which it acts as
manager and secretary. On
completion of the bonus-issue
paid capital will total £stg-
-100,000, in 10s. stock-units.
Last term portion of the co.’s
holding in Austral Amalga-
mated was sold, resulting in
a capital profit of £20,328. In-
cluding this amount, net profit,
after writing off £18,237 of
prospecting costs and pro-
viding £B3OO for taxation,
jumped by £27,703 to £29,160,
divs. totalling 2s. 6d. a share
being paid during the year (to
June 30 last), and a further
Is. 6d. going to shareholders
in the current term. (All
amounts are in sterling, and
divs. are subject to Malayan
tax of 30 p.c.)
Prospecting met with some
success and areas tested in the
Kinta Valley (Malaya) were
found to contain “values high
enough to warrant applications
being made for mining leases.”
Since the close of the term
THE BRITISH PETROLEUM COMPANY
GROUP SALES REACH NEW RECORD
Rate of Expansion Retarded By Suez Crisis
The forty-eighth annual general
meeting of The British Petroleum
Company Limited will be held on
May 30 in London, England.
Ihe following is an extract from
the Statement by the Chairman,
Mr N. A. Gass, C.8.E., M.C.,
which has been circulated to
Stockholders:
The expansion in the BP group’s
business in 1956 as described in this
Statement, would have been at a
higher rate but for the retarding
eriects in the last two months of the
year of the closure of tire Suez
Canal, and the damage in Syria to
the Iraq Petroleum Company's pipe-
line system to the Eastern
Mediterranean.
The early months of 1957 have
been a diiiicuit period in which we
have experienced a reduction m our
naoe and the growth of consump-
tion in the European area, wnere we
have a large manceting interest, has,
lor the present, slowed down. But
the basic facts of the world's grow-
ing forward energy requirements,
and the increasing contribution to
be made by oil, remain unchanged,
and we can look forward to an
expanding business granted the
stable conditions requisite for the
progressive development of Middle
East oil-production on which the
economic future of the producing
countries in that area so largely
depends.
In the Consolidated Profit and
Loss Account the Trading Profit
alter providing for depreciation and
amounts written off, was
£124,171,691 for 195 b compared with
£111,683,900 for 1955.. The increase
of £12,487,791 is due, in the main,
to higher sales tonnages.
Depreciation and Amounts written
ofl totalled £25,202,874 compared
with £22,143,401 for 1955, the
increase being mainly in the
amount written od Exploration
Interests.
The total taxation charge is
£76,324,120 of which £64,036,101 is
Overseas Taxation arising mainly in
the countries of production; Iran,
Iraq, Kuwait and Qatar.
It is the intention to publish yearly
and half-yearly Group Income State-
ments ; the first of these is issued
with the Accounts. The initial half-
yearly statement for the first six
months of 1957 will show compara-
tive figures for the corresponding
period of 1956, and it will be
appreciated that the income in the
current half-year will be affected by
the adverse conditions.
Capital Expenditure
Programme
The estimated amount of con-
tracts for Capital Expenditure at
.the end of last year was £l2O
million (of which £BB million relates
to shipping, including, in part, the
expenditure on tankers to be dealt
with under the new tanker financing
arrangements). It has to be
anticipated that actual Capital
Expenditure will continue at a high
rate, and will necessitate the con-
tinued retention in the business of
a very substantial proportion of the
earnings.
Production
During 1956 we obtained from
Kuwait, Iraq, Iran and Qatar, our
main sources of supply, a total of
about 49,500,000 tons of crude oil,
or 4,000,000 tons more than in 1955.
But for the curtailment of Middle
East Production necessitated by the
Suez crisis in the last two months of
the year, this increase. would have
been substantially greater. Larger
production in Iran was the principal
contributor towards the increase in
our crude oil supplies.
In Iraq, the companies in which
we have an interest continued the
development of their established
fields and exploration for further
reserves. On November 2 the
destruction in Syria of the pump-
ing stations on the pipelines from
Iraq to the Mediterranean brought
the flow of oil from the Iraq
Petroleum Company’s and Mosul
Petroleum Company’s fields to a
standstill.
In Trinidad, Trinidad Northern
Areas Limited continued to increase
production from the deviated wells
dniJed from shore, and from the
off-shore Soldado field discovered
last year in the Gulf of Paria. Dur-
ing the year we increased our
interests in Trinidad by the
acquisition of stock in Trinidad
Petroleum Development Limited.
In Papua, a well is
being drilled below the
accumulation of natural gas at
Kuru, but has not yet established
the presence of an underlying oil-
field. Two other wells were started
in Papua under very difficult jungle
conditions; one has since proved
unproductive and been abandoned,
the other is drilling ahead.
Geological and geophysical surveys
continue.
In Australia, two further wells
were drilled, neither of which was
successful.
In the North Island of New
Zealand initial geological and geo-
physical surveys made good
progress.
Refining
In 1956 our total refinery through-
put was 32,500,000 tons, 3,000,000
tons more than in 1955. But for the
dislocation of crude oil supplies
caused by the Suez crisis our 1956
throughput would have been about
2,000,000 tons larger.
The Statement then referred to the
refining operations in the United
Kingdom, Ireland, France, Germany,
Belgium, Aden, Kuwait, Iran,
Canada and Turkey and continued:
In addition to the major expansion
schemes at Kent and Kuwait
refineries described last year, which
are making excellent progress, con-
struction has begun of a new
distillation unit at Lavera refinery
m the south of France to raise its
throughput capacity from 2,260,000
to nearly 4,000,000 tons per annum.
All these extensions should be com-
pleted towards the end of 1957 or
early in 1958.
In Australia 1956 was the first
full year of refinery operations at
Kwinana, throughput being 2,304,000
tons compared with 1,690,000 tons
in 1955. Additions completed dur-
ing the year included a bottling plant
for liquid petroleum gas, air exten-
sion to the 'bitumen plant, and
additional tankage.
SEA TRANSPORT. Of the 41
ships referred to last year as under
construction or on order one,
recently completed, has been pur-
chased by Tanker Charter Com-
pany Ltd. and chartered to us. The
remaining 40 ships of that building
programme are all due for comple-
tion during the next three years, in
addition, BP Tanker Company has
placed orders for a further number
of new tankers, including several of
65,000 deadweight tons.
Distribution and Sales
The BP group’s sales of crude oil
and refined products in 1956 rose to
the new record total of 53 million
tons. The increase over the preced-
ing year was 11 per cent, or 5
million tons—almost equally divided
between crude oil and refined
products—and thus was less by 1
million tons, than thq 6 million ton
increase attained in 1955. This is
attributable to the effects of the
Suez crisis; prior to this we were
expecting to achieve in 1956 an
expansion of 8 million tons or 17
per cent.
In Europe, mounting industrial
production brought about a fuither
■substantial increase in the consump-
tion of petroleum in 1956, amount-
ing to some 18 per cent., and we
have maintained our position in the
market.
Our marketing company in Aus-
tralia, The Commonwealth Oil
Refineries, Limited has recorded its
most successful year to date.
In New Zealand, BP (New
Zealand) Limited celebrated its
tenth anniversary on December 19,
1956, and continues to make
encouraging progress.
We have arranged the supply of
all petroleum products for the
British Trans-Antarctic Expedition,
and our companies in Australia and
New Zealand have supplied the
petroleum product requirements of
the Australian Antarctic Exped.tion
and the New Zealand contingent of
the Trans-Antarctic Expedition.
It is again a very real pleasure
to record the Board’s appreciation
of the excellent and devoted services
of the group’s personnel at home,
afloat and overseas.


CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will- last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturer's of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACK>OM A
tisnwwxit
. -> MTUD.
TRADE MARK
Jackson & O'Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPES
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"MCKSUL," BRISBANE
Austral Malay in partnership
with Clutha Development, Ltd.,
has been testing possible
dredging sites in the New
England district of N.S.W.
Those on the register on June
18 next will participate in the
bonus-issue and buyers are
currently offering 655. (Aus-
tralian) for the co.’s 10s. ords.
Austral Amalgamated
Austral Amalgamated, the
most promising performer in
the group, brought its fourth
dredge into operation daring
the year to June 30 last and
handled 8,619,000 cu. yds. of
ground as against 6,922,000 in
the preceding term:
Ausitsal Amalgamated.
Concentrates.
e— s
Lb. Overall
Treated, Per Cost
Lease. C.y. Tons. C.y. Per C.y.
Purhong —-
1955.. 2.>1,000 869.53 0.46 12.44 d.
4956.. 601.27 0.39 14.07 d.
Purhong No. 2
195 G” 679,000 180.24 0.59 18.80 d.
Vln Yam—
-1955.. 000 493.56 0.48 15.00 d.
1956.-1,915,000 472.88 0.55 17.57 d.
Snngkoi—
-1955.. 350.000 46.32 0.27 12.17 d.
1956.. 000 474.46 0.41 14.32 d.
In addition 10,221 tons of
ilmenite and 740 z. of gold
were mined and sold. Strikes
interfered with production in
the Ulu Yam sector, while the
Puchong No. 2 dredge was not
commissioned until April, ’56,
and worked for only 1428
hours. With all four dredges
on a full operating basis an
appreciable increase in output
is anticipated in the current
term.
The average price received
for the ore rose from £702 to
£741 a ton of metallic tin, and
although overall costs increased
from £402 to £446 a ton (after
allowing a total of £81,414, up
£24,868, for depreciation) the
heavier provision for tax,
£40,448 higher at £88,261, was
a big factor behind the fall in
net profit, down £10,244 at
£219,676. Divs. of 2s. a share
were paid and another Is. a
share (all subject to tax) went
out last September. The f.-p.
ss. shares, carrying the right
to participate in the bonus-
issue, last sold at 295. 6d. (Aus-
tralian).
Pungab
Pungah Tin Dredging, Ltd.
(Thailand), produced a greater
quantity of concentrates last
term at a' lower cost, the
material treated consisting of
tailings:
Pungah Tin.
Concen- Av. Overall
Year to Treated, ti ntes, Per C.y., Cost,
June 30, C.y. Tons. Lb. C.v.
1955. .1,950,000 338.5 ' 0.39 14.94 d.
1956. .2,753,000 381.3 0.31 13.19 d.
Profit, after tax, £9383 (up
£4211), was £51,181, an im-
provement of £5097. The
working of tailings is expected
to keep the dredge operating
profitably “for a number of
years.” Two divs., each of Is.,
and subject to Malayan tax,
were paid during the year but
there has been no distribution
in the current term, the co.’s
f.-p. 10s. shares recently selling
at 10s. 3d. (Australian).
Thabawleik
Thabawleik Tin Dredging,
Ltd., Burma, exhausted its ore-
reserves early in the current
term and the boand has recom-
mended that the co. be wound
up.
Most of the ground dredged
last term was tailings:
Thabawleik Tin.
Concen- Av. Overall
Year to . Treated, trates, Per C.y., Cost, ’
June 30, C.v. Tens. Lb. C.v.
1955. .2,046,000 360.5 0.39 16.80 d.
1956. ,1,981,000 304.76 0.34 15.33 d.
The net profit dropped from
£19,478 to £18,112 after allow-
ing £26,184 (down £7296) for
tax, a div. of Is. per share being
paid during the year. Another
Is. per share was sent out last
September.
At the end of the term (June
30, ’56) current assets and
investments (including spares,
£45,533, and cash and Govern-
ment securities, £99,103) ex-
ceeded total liabilities by
£130,766. Fixed assets were
valued at £189,746. The co.
has a paid capital of £BO,OOO
in f.-p. 10s. shares and buyers
are currently offering 14s.
(Australian) for the scrip.
All Alive-O?
[From h. Owen]
"DEPORTS published in the
evening papers of May 20
stated that Associated Freney
Oilfields, N.L., had ‘‘found
evidence” of “live oil” in a
core taken from that co.’s
Sisters’ Plateau well at 8896 ft.
—presumably on May 18 or
earlier.
I am at a loss to understand
how the statement that “live”
oil was observed in a core is
to be interpreted as (in a
lengthy career as an active
petroleum-geologist) I have
never heard the expression used
in that context. Oil saturated
with natural gas, which forced
the effervescent liquid into a
well, might be described as
“live,” but that would not con-
stitute accepted petroleum
argot.
In any case, there was no
occasion for a 500 per cent,
rise in the price of
Freney shares. Traces of oil
are to be expected .in a thick
sedimentary column, such as
that penetrated at Sisters’
Plateau, and should have
caused no surprise, much less
a minor oil-boom.
Dirk Hartog Island
[From Li. Owen]
/CESSATION of drilling on
Dirk Hartog Island, and
the abandonment of the only
deep test, No. 178, at 4998 ft.,
after three formation-tests at
different levels had yielded
brine, has been the subject of
some woebegone reporting in
that part of the press which
chronicled the event. Most
papers, however, ignored the
matter either because it was
considered as possessing little
news-value or, in some cases,
as too harrowing for the readers
who had paid, on the financial
editor’s enthusiasm, unjusti-
fiably high prices for shares
during the oil-boom.
It is to be hoped, however,
that the stopping of operations
in this intriguing area is only
temporary. In my opinion,
even a short transfer of
activities elsewhere (with the
concomitant loss of continuity),
if the reason for it is the lack
of commercial result above
5000 ft., is quite unjustified.
The T2O rig has done better
than could reasonably be
expected of it in what was by
no means easy drilling-ground,
and I strongly suspect that the
well it drilled was located on a
structural high defined by the
sixteen shallow bores which
preceded it.
Experience on Rough Range
(both north and south) and on
Cape Range which are in-
cluded with Dirk Hartog in one
major structure —should have
indicated that a Cretaceous
structural high is not a
location likely to produce
commercial oil in the underly-
ing pre-Triassic strata of the
Carnarvon Basin.
If the geological investigation
of Dirk Hartog Island and its
environs is to be given up at the
present juncture, it will merely
add to the list of other portions
of the Basin condemned by the
false hypothesis that the Bird-
rong horizon included commer-
cial quantities of oil sandwiched
between brine and gas after
the pattern beloved in text-
books.


Australia's Largest and Friendliest Hotel
THE
HOTEL METROPOLE
vmi-.w.Wi
1
W
Advance booking essential.
SYDNEI
O Conveniently Located.
• First-class Dining Room
• New Banquet Rooms fr
Private Functions.
• Ultra Modern Privati
Suites.
• Spacious, Private Loung.
and Sumptuous Publi<
Lounge.
• Over 50 Rooms will
Private Bathrooms.
The METROPOLF
the Countrymen’s home
in Town.
80522 Box 1601 G.P.O
OTION
1
£
Effect all your Insurances with
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
Insurance Company Limited
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
'Phone: BWIOII, BW 1012, 8W4991
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
All types of General Insurance
Directors:
SIR VICTOR WILSON, K.B.E. (Chairman)
JAMES H. STEPHENSON (Deputy Chairman)
S. E. A. STIRLING, STRUAN ROBERTSON,
R. G. GALE
A. G. MAITLAND,
Managing Director
N. E. MANION,
Manager
Branches and Agencies in all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
' MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
TJUHTLE negotiations between
New Zealand’s trade-
mission and the United
Kingdom authorities have been
proceeding under a cloak of
silence, hopes that the
Dominion will gain anything
very much in the way of pro-
tection on the British market
have been dwindling.
There is a growing feeling
that N.Z. will have to intensify
its efforts to find and develop
foreign markets, even if, in
order to do so successfully, it
must ultimately cut preferences
hitherto granted to British
imnorts.
The Minister of Industries
and Commerce, Mr. Halstead,
probably had something of this
sort in mind when he told the
Auckland Chamber of Com-
merce that N.Z. must change
the pattern of its overseas trade
if it were to remain prosperous.
“Traditionally we have
traded .principally with one
country—the United Kingdom
—but now our external trade
is gradually becoming diver-
sified,” he said. “We cannot
afford to relax our search for
new markets.”
One outcome of the increas-
ing concern which is being felt
about the future of marketing
may well be the setting-up of
a separate Ministry of Trade
to carrv out an aggressive
export-drive.
Shipping
Meantime, Federated
Farmers has urged the setting-
up of a shipping committee to
endeavor to overcome the
main obstacles to trade with
Eastern markets. The com-
mittee, which would include
representatives of the primary-
producing boards, exporters,
importers and the Government,
would investigate the possibility
of trade and of arranging for a
refrigerated cargo-ship to
operate a direct, regular service
between N.Z., Indonesia,
Malaya, the Philippines, China
and Japan.
The N.Z. trade-commissioner
in South-east Asia, R. G.
Hampton, said recently that
only lack of shipping was
hindering N.Z.’s ability to
build up a valuable trade in that
area.
He was confident, he said,
that N.Z.’s frozen meat, butter,
dried-milk and canned goods
could beat American competi-
tion in the Manila market.
Prospects were improved by
the fact that the U.S. had
begun to pay import duties to
the Philippines which would
rise gradually over the next 25
years.
Already a new shipping
link between N.Z. and Penang,
Port Swettenham and Singa-
pore was opening the way to
a major trade expansion. It
would help to overcome diffi-
culties which N.Z. had had to
face in the past in competing
with Australian exporters who
were closer to the market and
bad a fast, regular shipping
service.
Iron and Steel
Prospects of the development
of an N.Z. iron - and - steel
industry are in the news again
as a result of an application
by a private syndicate for
prospecting and mining rights
over Maori-owned iron-sand
deposits near Kawhia, on the
west coast of the North
Island.
Members of the syndicate are
G. B. Law, N.Z. manaeer of
1.C.1.A.N.Z. ; W. R. B. Martin,
geologist; J. W. C. Fletche r
S. Cory-Wright; and Sir James
Fletcher.
Previous attempts to estab-
lish a steel industry in N.Z.
have failed, partly because the
iron-sands tended to clog
blast-furnaces and partly
because demand for steel has
been insufficient to warrant
economic production in N.Z.
Advances in electric-smelting
techniques, however, have
shown that it is possible to
smelt ore from N-Z. iron-sands
on a large scale, and rapid
growth of industry, population
and living standards has meant
that steel consumption is now
sufficient to justify a domestic
industry. These facts were
pointed out by the Reserve
Banks in a recent survey of the
subject.
Leading spirit in reviving the
proposal for a steel industry
has been geologist Martin, who
for some time past has been
engaged on iron-sands research
at Victoria University College.
He has made tentative pro-
posals, but has stressed that
a thorough investigation of all
aspects of them is a necessary
preliminary to action.
Mr. Martin envisages a steel
plant of 250,000 tons initial
capacity on reclaimed land at
Bluff. Near by are ample
supplies of coal and lignite, and
a surplus of electric power is
available.
Ore would come from the
west coast, north of New Ply-
mouth. Rough estimates
indicate a probable deposit of
411 million tons of ore-bearing
sands, comprising about 263
million tons of ore mineral.
This would give about 153
million tons of iron and 20
million tons of titanium
dioxide. Other large deposits
of iron-sands, estimated at
2050 million tons, with about
184 million tons of mineral
ore, are located at Kawhia
North head. •
Mr. Martin is at present
engaged in trying to find a
satisfactory method of extract-
ing titanium, valued at £3OOO
a ton, from iron-sand. If this
work succeeds titanium could
become a valuable by-product.


THE National Industry
Introducing a Wool Issue
FOR good or ill, the economic w'ell-
being of everyone in Australia is
involved in wool. What happens
at the sales in Sydney, Perth,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Melbourne, New-
castle, Launceston and other nerve-
centres of the industry ultimately decides
what the average Australian eats, wears
or invests.
In this, The Bulletin’s third annual
Wool Issue, some aspects of the economic
background are discussed in a special
article by J. Abercrombie. Another
article, Brian Walsh’s “The Woolbuyer”
—a brilliant, impressionistic account of
woolbuying from the inside—won first-
prize in the Australian Wool Bureau
competition.
Along with the woolgrower, the man-
in-the-street is also affected by weather —-
by rain, or the lack of it—in distant parts.
At time of writing, graziers throughout a
great part of eastern Australia, from the
western railway-line down to Victoria,
are faced with a very hard winter. South
Australia has had dry weather for some
t.me, and so has a good deal of the
sheep-country in Western Australia. In
colder parts, such as the N.S.W. Monaro,
rain, if it comes, will come too late.
There are local exceptions here and
there. At Dalgety’s Sydney office the
other day a terse communique came in
stating that Victorian buyers had crossed
the N.S.W. border and bought heavily at
Balranald —indicating that somewhere in
the Victorian western district there had
been rain.
Reports from agents in the country,
and from overseas, are 1 coming into
Dalgety’s all the time, and summaries
go out to newspapers, broadcasting-
stations, banks and business-houses —an
interesting sidelight on the gathering and
dissemination of pastoral intelligence.
By and large, the seasonal picture is
not good. One recalls the traditional
warning: When Australia’s sheep-popu-
lation reaches the 120-million mark —-
look out! The figure last November was
around 140-million. It will be interest-
ing—of vital national interest —to see
how far the impact of a bad year on the
difference of 20-million will be cushioned
by recent developments in fodder-
conservation.
There has, of course, been some soften-
ing of the impact already. It is highly
probable that but for myxomatosis we
would be in the middle of a really bad
drought now. Dr. Franklin, of C.5.1.R.0.,
and others, have been preaching fodder-
conservation in good seasons against a
time of need for years—coming out, every
now and again, with alarming figures on
the national reserves of stock-feed, and
the estimated time in which such reserves
would be consumed in a nationwide
drought. The total impression made by
these warnings seems sadly slight.
Certainly there are many examples of
v/oolgrowers who have taken all reason-
able precautions ; but, in the nature of
things, one hears more about the man
who stores fodder, grows crops for supple-
mentary feeding, improves his pasture
and makes dams than about the ones who
do not.
A South Australian grazier put it to
The Bulletin like this: “I’m not afraid
for myself. I’m an old hand, I'm estab-
lished, and I’ve got a lot of fodder stored.
But I’m afraid for a lot of people in my
district. Some of them haven’t been
through a bad year. Some of them have
taken the good years too easily. Some
of the properties are overcapitalised.”
Against this somewhat sombre back- '
ground—which could change dramatic-
ally, in many districts, before this is
Anthony Hordern, Snr., president of the N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ Association.
printed—the Sydney Sheep Show is
about to open (June 5 to June 8). As
the aim and effort which this Sheep
Show represents was summed-up by the
president of the N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’
Association, Anthony Hordern, Snr., in
last year’s Wool Issue:
For over half-a-century the N.S.W.
Sheepbreeders’ Association has been holding
its sheep-shows, with one main object in
mind: the improvement of the sheep,
whether for its wool, its carcass, or both.
The 1957 Sheep Show has been shorn
of some of the trimmings of past years—
mannequin-parades and (he like —but a
record number of sheep have been
entered. Entries for Merinos are slightly
down, and so are Polwarths, Romney
Marsh and Ryelands. Corriedales,
Border Leicesters, Southdowns, Dorset
Horns, Suffolks and Cheviots, and Junior
Farmer entries, are all up. Hampshire
Downs, are the same as last year.
It is wrong, no doubt, to argue from
the particular to the general, but (keeping
that prohibition in mind as a warning
against oversimplification) the Sheep
Show entries are at least an illustration of
what has become a distinguishable trend:
the increasing importance of the fat-lamb
and dual-purpose breeds in this country.
If one agrees that it is wise to split the
risk, this is a very healthy development,
The trend is bound-up with smaller
properties and pasture-improvement, and
it could be reversed, for a time, by bad
seasons. But it seems to be a long-term
trend, and if we are to have an expanding
fat-lamb industry, it should be an efficient
one: which raises questions of export-
markets, and how best they can be
developed. In that regard, two articles in
this issue—one from New Zealand (with
significant emphasis on good pmucity),
the other from N.S.W. —are particularly
interesting.
Bethia Foott’s “Homestead in the
Central West” belongs in a different
category. It is fine writing, and personal
writing. But it, too, in a different way.
illustrates changes and tendencies. In
Bill Howard’s lighthearted “Woolclassers”
—reprinted in response to repeated
requests—we are back in the world of
wool. Back a little further, from another
angle, some of the old shearing-songs
collected by John Meredith . . .
It is not possible to summarise here
the march of the Merino through the
Australian countryside. The pioneers—•
Macarthur, Marsden, the Cox family;
the crossing of the Blue Mountains in
New South Wales, the development of
the Mudgee strain, and the parallel
development in Tasmania. The infiltra-
tion into Victoria from south and north,
(Continued on page 45)


A.P.M. RESEARCH FOR BETTER PAPER No. 8 of a series.
t :
f ....
» / - : •
til/ # /.J*
m
-
»& .: *>3
\
• 'i
Papermaking and Science go hand in hand...
There’s more to making paper than meets
the eye even the “eye” of the impressive
electron microscope used by the research staff
of A.P.M. Australian Paper Manufacturers
Limited.
Today, A.P.M.’s research scientists have at
their command many valuable instruments and
machines, plus the resources of three labora-
tories, a workshop and technical library.
In these laboratories the researchers face
the fascinating, never-ending problems of im-
proving paper and paper-making techniques;
of developing the many wood by-products; of
testing the qualities and composition of various
pulps.
Ahead lies the possibility of making paper
from materials other than wood; of improving
wood species; of continued investigation of
Australian forestry problems.
A.P.M. research scientists have a proud
record of achievement, including such tangible
results as their wartime development and pro-
duction of cellulose pulp for explosives, and
dissolving pulp from eucalypt wood for use
in rayon manufacture.
A.P.M.’s research programme means better
paper products for you and contributes greatly
to the economy and efficiency of A.P.M.’s
operations as Australia’s largest manufacturer
of wrapping paper and paperboard.*
*The term paperboard embraces cardboard,
fibreboard and other heavyweight papers.
Basically the same raw materials are used
for paperboard and paper.
Buy Australian Made
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale, Broadford in Victoria.
Botany, N.S.W.; Petrie, Queensland; and Bayswater, W.A.


THE LIFE OF
THE PARTY
By MAUREEN LUSON
“Happy to know you! And on such an auspicious occasion.”
CHRISSIE settled the old
man in the chair nearest
the fire, and stood back
to see if he spoilt the
decor of her carefully-arranged
room as much as she feared.
“Now, Dad, you do know
what you’re going to say
when you propose Alge's
health after supper, don’t you?
You won’t go rambling off into
the speech you used to give
as senior member of the
Department when someone
else got your promotion, or
that awful one you always
made at weddings”
“Fuss, natter, gab!” Matt
Mudd responded. He was as
bald and as hook-beaked as a
vulture, and his shoulders,
hunched under the black jacket,
gave the impression of
temporarily - folded wings
wings, thought Chrissie, that
were always waiting to spread
and hover over her parties;
and she was so anxious, for
Alge’s sake, that this one
sh-ouid be a success; iike all
the others, it would start at a
disadvantage, with her father,
and her husband, Ron, both
potential party-killers.
She turned with relief to her
cousin, Alge Mudd, who now
appeared. Alge was a small
man, with eager hands that
chased each other around in
the air, pale eyes that begged
for approbation, and a thin
face covered with a smocking
of fine lines from his habit
of contorting his features to
illustrate his conversation.
He primmed his lips, flapped
one hand over his hair, poised
the other on his hip, and
asked: “Well, Chrissie? How
do you think the guest-of-
honor’s looking?”
She kissed him gratefully;
Alge was so splendid at parties
—he’d prevented hers from
being disasters so often.
“Oh, Alge, you look so nice,
dear. Has—has Ron started to
change yet?”
Alge gripped the knot of
his tie, tugged it, elongated his
neck, and gritted his teeth. “Tie
trouble. But he’ll be ready
fairly toot-sweet.”
“I do hope so.”
Chrissie’s anxiety - neurosis
impelled her once more into
the kitchen to inspect the
supper.
“Chrissie and her lousy
parties!” snarled Matt Mudd
from his corner.
Alge cl,eked, h.s tongue,
wagged an admomtory finger
and said: You need a spot
of party.sp.nt, Unk. Th,s is
a special occasion.
He crept conspiratonally into
VaJi * 3 P
\xn y ‘ U * , -a, at.
When he returned with the
glass, his uncle uncurled a
claw and hooked it, winking ;
he sipped, mumbling: “Damna-
tion to daughters and doctors.”
npHE doorbell rang, and
Chrissie’s footsteps played
an agitated tattoo in the hall.
Matt swallowed, coughed,
and thrust the empty glass at
Alge. “Straight down the fair-
way. A lovely shot. Thanks.”
Chrissie’s hostess - smile
became a little less glassy, when,
with the arrival of the third
lot of guests, Ron emerged from
the bedroom; slow-moving
and heavy-jowled, Ron spoke
seldom, and with visible effort,
He greeted everyone with the
series of grunted consonants
that comprised his vocabulary:
“H’w ’rr y’? C’m 'n, w'n’t y’?”
Soon the lounge-room was
uncomfortabl cr fc owded and
Chrissie * wjt|l a s nki
heart, that the party was goinj
t 0 foilow the P u J a | ® er ®
The men were edging off
lhro h the double-dSor's into
,he dining-room where Ron,
anchored to the drink-table,
had formed the nuc|eus f
golf-and-fishing-story clot,
Her father, from his chair by
*he fire, glared at the glazing
faces of the circle of women ;
th ?y had begun by throwing
bright, girlish remarks at him,
but be had snapped at them,
bitten them in two, and dis-
carded them like unacceptable
morsels of bun. He was worse
than , ever to-night, thought
Chrissie ; it was more bearable
when he glowered in silence,
Then Alge came in with the
savories, his handkerchief
draped, napkin-wise, on his


arm ; he had assumed a super-
cilious expression and a
pompous strut. Chrissie quickly
led the ripple of laughter.
Alge did the rounds, bowing
ceremoniously, murmuring :
“May 1 tempt you, Mrs.
Tindle?” and “An anchovy for
Miss Antherleigh?”
The atmosphere lightened.
“Oh, really, Alge, you should
be on the stage!” giggled the
women.
Alge glowed, happy to be
appreciated. He refilled glasses:
“Now, Mrs. Grimes-White —
another drop of the stuff that
makes you frisky!”
“Oh, now, Alge! Well —only
a spot. As it’s a celebration!”
“Yes, and you haven't told
us how you did it yet, Alge—
won that wonderful prize, I
mean.”
That was Mona Beeling,
whose fourteen-stone of young
middle-aged spread was com-
pressed fashionably, but
perilously, into a satin-sheath-
dress.
Alge wrung invisible
moisture from his handker-
chief, placed it on his head,
closed his eyes, and cupped his
chin in his palm. “Cold
towels and concentration, Mrs.
Beeling.” He admired Mona
greatly.
C|HE smiled on him, raising
her hand to pat her back
hair, the better to display her
fabulous forty-eight.
Alge clutched his heart,
plucked therefrom a hypo-
thetical arrow, and gazed at
it. “Careful, Mrs. Beeling.
Your hubby’s much bigger than
I am.”
Her laughter was an arpeggio
of pleasure.
Miss Antherleigh, who made
gumnut jewellery and wrote
paragraphs, and was the only
celebrity present, decided she
was being neglected. She
inquired earnestly: “Do you
intend doing any serious
writing now, Alge?”
“You never know.” Alge
pouted, and folded his fist under
his chin like Rodin’s Thinker.
“I may try a novel or two.”
And indeed, at that moment,
he felt capable of writing half-
a-dozen novels, all best-sellers.
This evening he was not only
the life of the party ; he was
also the guest-of-honor.
For more than twenty years
he had entered, doggedly and
secretly, for every competition
and contest with a remotely
literary flavor, without even a
consolation prize. And now he
had won £5OO for a slogan
extolling “Mira-cools,” the
Little Lozenges that Lubricate
the Larynx.
Only a Mira-cool prevents
croaking from smoking was the
entry that, from thousands,
had been judged the first-prize
winner.
And he, Algernon George
Mudd, had dreamed it up.
In his pocket, neatly-typed,
and carefully folded, was the
speech he would make in reply
to Unk Matt’s. Modest, grace-
ful, and sprinkled with acutely-
pointed witticisms, the speech
had cost Alge hours of
rehearsal ; it was to cause the
guests to comment delightedly:
“Really - brilliant —of course
Alge always has hidden his
talents under a bushel. Mark'
my words, we’ll be hearing a
lot of Alge from now on;
there’ll be no holding him.”
The doorbell rang, and he
heard Chrissie’s anxious hiss
as she rustled past: “We’re all
here —whoever on earth . . .?”
And then, from the hall, she
screamed: “Why Bernie
Lush !”
A VOICE that Alge
remembered, envied, and
loathed, began booming:
“My dear lady! This is a
pleasure! I had to come, of
course, as soon as I opened the
paper and saw oid Murky’s
name at the top of the list”
Ron’s grunts punctuated it:
“Pl’sn’t sprys. Gl’d y’ c’m.
H’r’n b’s’n’ss?”
“Yes, I’m here on business.
The usual flying-visit. I only
got in an hour ago. You’re
looking just the same, old
chap and Chrissie’s still
putting up with you? Magni-
ficent ! ”
Bernie, having divested him-
self of a navy-blue velour over-
coat with an astrakhan-collar,
strode into the lounge and
gripped Alge with velvety
strength:
“Murky! Well, brains will
out. Congratulations indeed!
Well, isn’t this going to be one
whale of a party!”
Alge, pinioned, opened his
mouth, but his voice was
extinguished in Bernie’s mellow
flood of laughter, exclamations,
and comments.
In the small, crowded lounge,
Bernie was a colossus. He was
tall, barrel-chested, and he had
a red, rubbery face over which
expressions flowed, melting
away into its smooth flexibility.
Even his voice had the smooth
resilience of rubber, and the
words plopped out of his
mobile mouth like rubber-
balls ; they bounced away, hit
the walls and' the ceiling, and
bounced around his audience’s
ears.
Once Alge and Bernie had
crawled together in musty,
spidery substructures, installing
gas-pipes. Now Alge wore-out
shoe-leather reading meters,
and Bernie wore-out countless
pairs of elegant pants in high-
powered cars and jet-airliners
keeping his finger on the pulse
of bigger and better business.
Chrissie was
chirping excited
introductions ; the
dining - room clot
had disintegrated, its
members drawn back
among the women
by the lodestar of
the name, “Lush.”
“Happy to know
you all! ” Bernie
waved an arm like a
bolster. “And on
such an auspicious
occasion. Yes, thanks, Ron—
a John Collins’ll fit the bill
nicely. Well, all, ( I give you
my old mate, Murky Mudd!
Murky, here’s luck—and that’s
what got your entry pulled out
of the sack first, eh?”
Everyone murmured: “Alge.
Good luck,” with disinterest,
sipped their drinks, and fixed
tfleir eyes again on Bernie.
The men were obviously won-
dering how they could get a
few hot tips about the opera-
tions of the Lush combine;
the women, just as obviously,
were thinking nostalgically of
mink, diamonds, and orchids
in Lush profusion.
■OERNIE’S green, globular
eyes had run over the
women, and had alighted on
Mona Beeling; he moved
easily across the room and
lowered his bulk into the
newly-made space on the sofa
between her and Miss Anther-
leigh ; he settled in the narrow
cleft like an immense sea-
anemone unfolding gently-
moving tentacles of charm in
all directions.
Miss Antherleigh yearned,
breathing heavily ; Mona Beel-
ing smiled, and patted her back
hair.
Bernie’s hand slid on to the
dromedary-humps of knees
under the straining satin
sheath. “Don’t tell me where,
dear lady—it’ll come to me—
but we have met before, haven’t
we?”
“Perhaps at the cage-bird
show,” said Mona, smiling.
“You are a bird-lover, aren’t
you, Mr. Lush?”
“Bernie,. please ! Let’s not
have formality at this informal
little gathering. Yes, I am a
bird-lover, Mona.” His gaze
strayed to where Mr. Beeling,
undersized and cadaverous,
brushed cigarette-ash off his
lapels. “Especially caged birds.
The little beauties are so
accessible”
“Birds,” interrupted Miss
Antherleigh, feeling neglected
again, “should never be caged.
I wrote a para, about that. Of
course they wouldn’t publish
it. It was red-hot.”
Alge seized this opportunity.
“We’d a budgie once; it
used to imitate Greta Garbo.”
He drew down the corners of
his mouth, leered under half-
closed lids, and intoned: “Eye
warn to bee alorn.”
No one laughed. Bernie
shot out a cascade of rubber-
bails :
“No, Murky, where’s your
tact? None of these girls re-
members Greta Garbo! You’d
better get another budgie and
train it to imitate Marilyn
Monroe. You know, she’s
really something. When I was
in Hollywood the other day
The women leant forward,
fascinated ; the men leant
back, amused.
The-rubber-balls bounced in
an unending stream. Bernie
went from Hollywood to Rio
de Janeiro, and thence to
Paris.
Alge snatched a hassock
from the floor, balanced it on
his head, and minced a few
steps: “What price the middy-
nets, Bernie? Ooh, la-la!”
“Do sit down, Alge,” said
Chrissie.
There wasn’t anywhere to
(Continued on page 88)


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
Main Turf interest now
centres on the Brisbane mid-
winter round. Several Strad-
broke Handicap candidates
raced at Sydney and Brisbane
meetings last Saturday, but
apart from Teranyan (at
Canterbury Park) and Shahwan
(at Doomben) performances
were tame. Teranyan finished
fast over six furlongs at
Canterbury to be second to My
Hali. He had 8.13, 21b. more
than his Ascot weight.
The N.Z. grey Shahwan won
over seven furlongs less 93yds.
in a Doomben Flying. He
carried Bst. (51b. more than his
Strad broke weight), but eased
in the betting—to 33 to 1.
Though the grey struck much
weaker class than he’ll bump in
the Stradbroke, he ran the
distance in 1.175, only a frac-
tion outside True Leader’s
course-record. Shahwan is now
being trained by Dick Roden,
who won the Doomben Ten
Thousand last year with El
Khobar. Roden is also looking
after Mac’s Amber, winner of
the Doomben May Handicap.
On the training-track at
Rosebery My Hali has few
rivals when it comes to sprint-
ing. Two days before the
Canterbury meeting the gelding
ran the best sprint of the morn-
ing—and on this and his third
to Mandingos a week earlier
the stable threw heavily on
him in the Flying. G.
Moore rode him in both
events, and he had an easy task
at Canterbury. It was My
Hali’s fourth start since trans-
ferring to Sid Lawrence's
stable, and his time —-1.12 3/10,
close to the race record —has
induced the stable to set the
speedy gelding for the Doom-
ben £lO,OOO.
The victory of Mac’s Amber
at the latest Doomben fixture
has brought the Melbourne
galloper right into the Bris-
bane Cup picture. He won the
mile-and-a-quarter May Handi-
cap with 9st. (51b. more than
his Brisbane Cup impost). In
Sydney Mac’s Amber won the
Chipping Norton Stakes at
Warwick Farm, was second to
Slogan II in the Doncaster and
t! ird to Empire Link in the
Queen Elizabeth Stakes.
Empire Link has to concede
him 81b. in the Brisbane Cup,
which should be one of the
best Ascot contests for many
seasons.
It’s about time someone got
tough on this rough riding.
Interference on Sydney courses
—and leading riders are in the
thick of it —is becoming alarm-
ing. The Canterbury Park
Handicap, with only nine
starters, was the roughest-run
Sydney race for many months.
And the main event wasn't the
only rough race during the
afternoon. Six stewards round
the track should be in a position
to pinpoint offenders —and not
just for reprimands. More
direct action and less discussion
is called for.
Sydney veterinary surgeon
“This is where We take the dive .”
Viv Davis has bred and raced
a number of horses with suc-
cess. Duchess Delville—bred
by Davis, and sold as a yearling
to former paddock bookmaker
Jack Shaw for 1300gns. —was a
popular winner of the A.J.C.’s
mid-week Maiden six for two-
year-old fillies. Trained by E.
D. Lawson, she is by Delville
Wood (imp.) from The Duchess
(a sister to stayer Aristocrat)
by Le Grand Due (Fr.) from
Kirrang by Magpie (imp.). A
well-developed filly, she should
be showing them the way in
again before long.
New Zealand trainer A. D.
Webster, who won four on end
recently with No Boots, will
travel many miles to place his
horses. He was at Newcastle
last Saturday, where his two-
year-old filly Mary Gilpin—he
laces her in partnership with
W. C. Marchant won the
Juvenile. She is by Gilpin
(imp.), who was successful over
15 and 12 furlongs in England,
and is the sire of many winners
in New Zealand, among them
Gillace (Hawkes Bay Guineas).
A welcome change of luck
for former Moorefield mentor
Arthur Croall was the victory
in the Randwick Second
Maiden (for two-year-old colts
and geldings) of Pinchgut.
Bred at Kooba Stud, Darling-
ton Point (N.S.W.), Pinchgut
comes from the family that
produced Carbon Copy, a
stayer who earned £38,244 in
stakes. His successes included
the A.J.C. Derby and St. Leger,
the Sydney Cup and several
w.-f.-a. contests. Pinchgut is
by Tsaoko (Fr.) from Nidhauli
by Nizami (Fr.) from Fort
Denison by Midstream (imp.).
The colt got his name from
his granddam, who also won
races at Randwick.
Prince Atlas displayed form
improvement to open his
winning account in the First
Maiden (for two-year-old colts
and geldings) at the mid-week
fixture. The son of Nea-
politan (imp.) and Erambie, by
Iliad (imp.), was secured by
Rosehill trainer H. A. Sampson
for 750gns. at the Randwick
yearling - sales last year for
A. C. Law. Prince Atlas is a
brother to smart Melbourne
galloper Chetnik, while family-
lines include Rapier, a winner
of the Auckland and the New
Zealand Cups, and Gesture, a
New Zealand winner of eight
successive races as a two-year-
old.
Last Saturday’s racing at
Caulfield settled one question
•for bookmakers and punters:
Pedro's Pride will certainly be
opening favorite for the
National Steeeplechase when
first charts are issued later this
week. Sent out an odds-on
fancy in the F. E. Shillabeer
Steeplechase, the big Don
Pedro mare justified early con-
fidence in her by carrying 11.8
to an effortless victory. Under
a tight rein, she raced close
to the lead until the mile-post,
where she bounded away to
win as she liked. Both her
wins this time have been at
Caulfield, but she is such a
good jumper that the bigger
fences at Flemington are not
likely to worry her. It will take
an outstanding performance by
another fencer to displace her
from public favor.
• • • •
A fortnight ago Merry
Hunter shocked punters when
he won the La Trobe Stakes
at 66 to 1. There were no
such extravagant odds available
about the Makarpura colt in
last Saturday’s First Ovens
Handicap. Only the well-
performed Moral was preferred
to him in the betting. The two
form-horses had the finish to
themselves. Merry Hunter’s
early pace gained him a break:
that was just big enough to
hold off Moral’s strong finish.
Moral had proved himself more
than useful, and using that
gelding as a measuring-stick
it looks as if A. H. Stevens
gained a bargain when he
paid 500gns. for Merry Hunter
at the Melbourne spring-sales
in 1955. Merry Hunter's great-
grandsire was the undefeated
Bahram, winner of the Derby,
St. Leger, and Two Thousand
Guineas.
• •: •
Second division of the
Ovens went to Famed, who
deserved a change ©f luck —he
was a close second at each of
his two previous starts. Backers
who accepted the short odds
about the’ Delville Wood geld-
ing can thank Bill Williamson
for their return. Famed
appeared to be in a hopeless
position on the turn, but
Williamson weaved a path
through the packed field, and
used all his talented vigor to
catch Western District when
he looked to have the race won.
Famed is little more than pony
size, standing only 15.0$ hands,
but he has ability and courage.
Trainer Fred Hoysted thinks
highly of the gelding, and
intends to spell him prior to a
Derby preparation.
Bill Williamson revealed at
Caulfield that the V.A.T.C. had


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUE EN SEA Xl)—Townsville.
No. 113 of 19.16.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
Mr. Justice Jefirioss.
BETWEEN EiLKEX MARIE ELIZA
TIIORNHir.T, Plaintiff and LESLIE
ROYAL THORNHILL Defendant.
TO LESLIE ROYAL THORNHILL for-
merly of Wynnum Central in the State
of Queensland but whose present where-
abouts are unknown. —TAKE NOTICE
that the trial at Cairns on the TWENTY-
FOURTH day of JULY next of the
issues in an action commenced against
von l>v EILEEN MARIE ELIZA THORN-
HILL for dissolution of marriage No. 113
of 1956 on tiie grounds of desertion If
you wish you may enter an appearance
in the Registry of the Court and defend
the action. DATED this Seventeenth
day of May, 1957.—W. C. BROOKS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. — In Divorce.
TO DANIEL SCOTT late of 161 Mullens
Street Roaelle.—TAKE NOTICE that
DOROTHY MARY SCOTT has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1098 of 1956
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 6th August 1957 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from GILBERT CHARLTON MUR-
DOCH, Solicitor, of 133 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO RUSSELL JOHN BOLTON late of
8 Dock Road Balmain. —TAKE NOTICE
that JOA'CE ELIZABETH BOLTON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1619 of
1956 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise
of the Court’s discretion under Section
19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899 If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the ?9th July 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. A. J. P. HALL
* HALL, Solicitors, 44 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
m
Write Now to
C. T. LORENZ
the Specialist in
CAMERA
MAIL
ORDERS
We are shortly expecting the
arrival oF a shipment oF
VOIGH'I LANDER and
AGFA Cameras. This stock is
in short supply ! Prominent,
Vitessa L and Vitessa T with
interchangeable lens, Veto B
and Veto BL. AGFA Silette
and Super SileLte Many
accessories.
Large stocks of LINHOF and
BhLL & HOWELL equipment.
To be certain ORDER
NOW!
All goods personally
guaranteed by
C. T. LORENZ
185 PITT ST.,
Sydney 6L 3431
given £5OO to the Jockeys’
Association of which
Williamson is president for
distribution to the families of
jockeys D. Barclay and M.
Gray, who were fatally injured
during the running of the
Albury Gold Cup on May 1.
Next month the Albury Racing
Club will stage a benefit-meet-
ing for the bereaved families.
* * *
Empire Night at the Harold
Park trots on Friday, and not
all the fireworks were outside
the course ; those bonfires and
fireworks that were entertaining
the youngsters in surrounding
Glebe did, however, give the
trots a new glow under an
orange-red haze Harold Park
looked like Luna Park.
The inside fireworks lay
herein. In the second Qualify-
ing favorite Sandy Highland
raced to the lead in the straight
and 50yds. out looked a
certainty; but he stopped
faster than any horse ever has,
was swamped by two of a wall
of three pursuing rivals, and
finished third. Winner was
100-to-l shot Rawson Chief,
who paid a record winning
tote-dividend of £4B 17s. 9d. for
ss. One punter had £5 each
tote and collected near on
£l2OO. In the Harold Park
Handicap chief - steward J.
Marx called back driver F. W.
Wilkins before the start of the
race for a pep-talk; the
Wjlkins-trained Bannalagh had
got out in the betting from
3\s to 15’s. Bannalagh sub-
sequently broke at the mark,
ran into strife during the race,
got clear and flew to ruti third.
In the Ryde Handicap the
giant-striding four - year - old
brown gelding Tense Ayr was
left badly at the mark, and at
the end of two furlongs was a
good space behind the second-
last horse in a well-strung-out
field, his tongue flopping from
the side of his mouth. Then he
began to race: in a last-lap
sweep he gulped the entire field,
battled on with the favorite,
Blanche’s Best, and won by
a neck—one of the best efforts
seen for a long time.
+ +
And Sundry Sports
N.Z. comfortably defeated
Australia 25-11 in the first 1957
Rugby Union Test; it was 11-
all at half-time. In the first
half Australia held its own —in
fact, was playing with the more
vigor and dash. There even
looked a chance of Australia’s
winning its first Test against
N.Z. in Australia since 1934;
but the first 13min. of the
second half changed that idea.
The first of N.Z.’s two first-
half tries was doubtful ; in the
forward-rush was a knock-on
which should have been pulled
up. But there was nothing
doubtful about centre
McMullen’s try under the posts,
converted by Clarke, within a
minute of resuming—it was a
lovely backline movement. In
another few minutes Clarke had
kicked a beautiful penalty from
the sideline, and when skipper
Reid, on the blind side, had
sent left-winger Walsh away
and over, the game was
decided. At 22-11 the All
Blacks then closed it up, and
the sparkle went out of the
game; The last points came
from a long-range penalty
from Clarke just on the bell.
N.Z. scored four tries to one.
N.Z.’s hard-working
forwards were always on the
ball, and at times it would have
taken something like a synchro-
cyclotron to have stopped
them. Hooker Hemi, to name
only one —a big fellow, too, for
a rake —is, apart from his work
in the scrums, one of the best
loose-forward hookers ever
seen in these parts ; he scored
a fine try. The Aussie pack
tried hard, but were beaten by
a better set.
The All Black backs,
particularly in the centre, were
too fast and too deceptive for
the locals. Of the Australians,
half-back Cox had a bad
match, Tooth, at five-eighth,
kicked too much. Full-back
Curley was again cool in
defence. Most impressive Aus-
tralian back, till he was injured,
was game-for-anything winger
Alan Morton, who got into the
side only as a second replace-
ment to the originally chosen
Saxon White. On the other
wing, Queenslander Ken
Donald, with limited chances,
made one very good dash, but
was lacking in defence. It is
difficult to see Australia revers-
ing the decision in the second
Test in Brisbane on Saturday
* * *
In two Brisbane League
tussles N.S.W. decisively tossed
Queensland —in the Wednes-
day-night match, 49-11, and 29-
12 on Saturday. The play of the
boys from the south was such
as to earn the team praise as
the best N.S.W. side since the
war, and to have local
Leaguesters leaping about
World Cup chances.
In Sydney’s weekend League
Norths beat Newtown, 16-6, in
the Sportsground match; Souths
got their first match of the
season, 23-10, with improved
form against Manly ; Balmain
beat a* bits-’n’-pieces Wests
side, 23-9; Parramatta, to
share the wooden spoon with
Souths, won their first match—
against Canterbury, 16-12 ; and
St. George toppled Easts,
29-8, in a rugged Sunday
match at the Sportsground.
❖ * *
The evenness of the V.F.L.
competition (and the conse-
quent uncertainty in tipping
winners) was again shown in the
sixth round. Most conspicuous
example, confounding all the
experts, was inaccurate Haw-
thorn’s suddenly, in the last
quarter, doing some deadly
straight-shooting to defeat
Essendon, the leaders, 11.8-
9.12 ; it was the Hawks’ first
win this year away from home,
which was not the least pleas-
ing feature of the win to its
supporters. Consistent Carlton,
also away from home, beat
Fitzroy in a torrid game 14.2-
12.10, while Footscray,
responding to some recent
drastic selection-measures, took
some drastic measures of its
own against Richmond, 14.14-
10.19. Melbourne, getting
going in earnest again now,
licked wooden-spooner South,
17.12-6.15, while North smote
Collingwood 13.13 - 10.16.
Geelong, overcoming a hoodoo
of sorts the St. Kilda ground
has had for it, defeated without
at all disgracing the Saints,
13.5-10.13. Melbourne now
heads the list, with the first four
teams level on match-points,
and the next two (’Scray and
Geelong) only half a win away.
* * *
Empire welter - champ.
George Barnes (10.9 J) gave
poundage to Queensland
middleweight Clive Stewart
(11.2-J-), and took a pounding
from him in their bout at
Sydney Stadium ; the younger
scrappier waltzed in on points.
Barnes’s display was lifeless ;
Stewart did not impress as a
Les Darcy—the experts just
can’t figure it.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
' m ■
- ■ m
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Now you can FORGET your
l?A'f //Si
Thanks to
NEO-
BARKERE
No Pads —
No Springs
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for FREE Literature
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3n), 243 Elizabeth St., Svdnev
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States
Agencies in all Country Centres
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copies of the following:
The Genesis of Queensland: An
account of exploring journeys to and
over the Darling Downs (Sydney,
1888), by H. S. Russell; The Foot-
square Hut and Tales of the Heike
(Sydney, 1928) by A. L. Sadler;
History of English Prosody (3 vois.),
by George Saintsbury; The Lau
Islands and their Folklore, by Dr.
St. Johnson, Dictionary of Bisinis-
English (Pidgin English), by Father
J. Schebesta (revised in 1945 by
Father L. Meiser). —6416.
To buy copy of Power Without
Glory, by Frank Hardy.—6sl4.
To buy copy of House of Winston
Blaker, by Edith McKay.—6sl3.
Information Supplied
In the Brief Answers of B.
15/5/’57 reference is made to books
by some William Kellys in Australian
Literature. Re W. H. Kelly: You
will find a biographical reference to
him in the original Australian
Literature (p. 392). He was some-
time a member of the House of
Representatives and a Minister in
the 1913-14 Cook Ministry (see
Who’s Who in Australia).
Re Charles Baker’s Some
Fragments of the Leisure Hour
Lines. The only recorded copy of
this composite work is in the Moir.
Collection of the La Trobe Library
(Public Library), Melbourne. The
separate leaflets are bound together
under a common title-page. My
details of their titles and imprints
were omitted from the galleys and
the inadequate compressed note you
reprinted was substituted.
Biographical references will be found
in the book.
Yours sincerely,
E. Morris Miller.
Information Sought
(1) Details of the Czech diplomat
Jan Masaryk, mentioned recently in
Low’s “Autobiography” ? (2) Why
was he killed, and by whom ? (3)
Any books an his life written in, or
translated into, English ?
(1) and (2) Born in Prague in 1886,
he was a son of Thomas Masaryk,
first President of Czechoslovakia. He
emigrated to the U.S.A. in 1907, but
returned when the Czech republic
was established in 1918. Between
1919 and 1922 he was in his
country’s diplomatic service •in
Washington and London, and from
1925 to 1938 he was Czech Minister
to Great Britain. In July, 1940, he
was appointed Minister of Foreign
Affairs in the Czech Government-in-
exile in Britain; in 1941 he was
appointed Deputy Prime Minister.
After the war he served his country
in many important ways; in 1946,
for instance, he was head of the
Czech delegation to the U.N.
Assembly. In March, 1948, he
committed suicide by jumping from
the window of his apartment in the
Foreign Office, Prague, as a protest
against the recently installed Com-
munist Government of
Czechoslovakia. He saw in this the
complete negation of the free
Czechoslovakia for which he had
worked and fought most of his
life. (3) See Czech Tragedy, by G.
Bolton (1955). As an insight into
his patriotism, there is Speaking to
My Country (1944), a summary of
his war-time broadcasts.
* * * *
Some information on the Bretton
Woods agreement ?
The conference held at Bretton
Woods (New Hampshire, U.S.A.) in
July, 1944, to formulate a post-war
international monetary policy was
attended by representatives of 44
nations,'including Britain, Australia,
Canada, N.Z., South Africa and
U.S.A. N.Z. did not ratify the
agreement. Two organisations were
set-up, the International Monetary
Fund and the International Bank,
usually known as the World Bank.
The purpose of the I.M.F. is,
briefly, to make foreign exchange
available to its members in order
to assist and promote international
trade (without creating any inter-
national money; every country to
become a member of the fund and
the bank to be assigned a quota
which must be subscribed partly in
gold and partly in its own currency),
fhe International Bank makes long-
term loans to member-countries for
reproductive and developmental pur-
poses. Australia has had four loans
from the International Bank,
totalling in all $258,500,000, used to
buy capital equipment for agri-
cultural, industrial, power and trans-
port development. Though N.Z.
was earlier happy about not join-
ing the difficulty of borrowing is
now raising some second-thoughts
about it, as, for instance, the note
in “Maoriland Finance and
Industry” (B. 15/5/’57) that “N.Z.
should certainly reconsider the
question of joining the Bretton
Woods organisation, to which every
other member of the British
Commonwealth already belongs.”
(1) A few details on the British
board that adjudicates on the
P'actices of newspapers and
reporters ? (2) Is there a similar
body in A ustralia ?
(1) This, known as the General
Council of the Press, was established
in 1953, following the recommenda-
tion of a royal commission on the
press. Its aims are: to preserve the
established freedom of the British
press; to maintain the character of
the British press in accordance with
the highest professional and com-
mercial standards; to keep under
review any developments likely to
restrict the supply of information of
public interest and importance; to
promote and encourage methods of
recruitment, education and training
of journalists; to promote a proper
functional relation among all sec-
tions of the profession; to promote
technical and other research; to
study developments in the British
press which may tend towards
greater concentration or monopoly;
to publish periodical reports record-
ing its own work and reviewing
from time to time the various
developments in the British press and
the factors affecting them. The
council consists of eight editorial
representatives, four nominees of the
National Union of Journalists, three
nominees of the Institute of
Journalists, and ten managerial
representatives. (Copies of the
Council’s third annual report are
now on sale.)
(2) No, though requests have been
made. H. Gordon C*leman,
Secretary, Australian Journalists’
Association (N.S.W. District),
writes: “1 enclose copies of the
AJ.A.’s code of ethics. This applies
to our members, but cannot be
extended to cover newspaper pub-
lishers. However, along with
various public bodies we have asked
the Government to legislate for a
General Council of the Press.” (A
copy of the A.J.A. case presented
tc the N.S.W. Premier has been
forwarded.) The code of ethics
reads: “Each member of the Aus-
tralian Journalists’ Association shall
observe the following Code of Ethics
in his employment:
(7) He shall report and interpret
the news with a scrupulous honesty.
(2) He shall not suppress essential
facts and shall not distort the truth
by omission or wrong or improper
emphasis.
(3) He shall in all circumstances
respect all confidences received by
him in the course of his calling.
(4) He shall observe at all times
the fraternal obligations arising from
his membership of the association,
and shall not on any occasion take
unfair or improper advantage of a
fellow-member of She association.
(5) He shall not allow his personal
interests to influence him in the
discharge of his duties nor shall he
accept or offer any present, gift or
other consideration, benefit or
advantage of whatsoever kind if such
acceptance or other is of a character
which may have the effect of so
influencing or benefiting him.
(6) He shall use only fair and
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(16/5/’57)
A large part of Queensland should get general rains
during June, with the best falls in the southern half of the
State. Similar conditions are likely in July, but rainfall
should be patchy during the spring:
Reasonably good rains in N.S.W. in June, light to
moderate on the central coast and southern tablelands.
Better rains are likely in July, becoming patchy later.
General rains, mainly below average, are indicated for
Victoria during June, although better falls may occur in the
western division. Similar .conditions are likely during July.
South Australia should get general rains, mainly below
average, in June, light in the Murray Valley and the interior.
Similar rains are indicated in July, although better falls may
occur, as one cycle suggests excellent rains.
General rains are likely in the agricultural areas of
Western Australia, with the heaviest falls on the south coast.
Good rains are also likely in the De Grey, south Gascoyne
and goldfields areas; poor elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


Missing Beneficiary
ESTATE OF LUCY RICHARDS, FOR-
MERLY OF WELLINGTON, LATE OF
TAYLOR V J LLE, SPINSTER, DE-
CEASED.
WOULD any person claiming either
direct or remote relationship to the
auovenamcd deceased through either the
RICHARDS or MORRIS branch of the
families (more particularly through
SARAH MIDDLETON, nee RICHARDS,
who lived on the West Coast, South
Island, New Zealand, about 70 years
ajro, or through ISABELLA STEVENS
or STEPHENS, nee MORRIS, believed
to be in Australia), please communicate
with the DIST R 1 C T P U 11L1C
TRUSTEE, GREYMOUTH, NEW ZEA-
LAND.
Missing Friend
SCOPE, ESTHER, widow of JAMES
SCOPE, or anyone knowing her where-
abouts, please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 1!) O’Connell
Street, Svdney, quoting estate JAMES
SCOPE.
Divorce Notices
VO RONALD BURTON AKINS formerly
of Shenton Park Perth Western Aus-
tralia. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
SHIRLEY DORIS AKINS, iias 'com-
menced proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for
Divorce on the ground of desertion by
you for a continuous period of three
years or more IF you desire to defend
surh proceedings you must tile your de-
fence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth within FORTY
clear days from the dale of this pub-
lication In default of your so doing
the cause may proceed and the Court
will pronounce judgment and make
orders against you in your absence. —
DATED this 17th day of May, 1007. —
<f. BOYLSON, Registrar.
FRED CURRAN & FURRIER, of Forrest
Place, Perth, Western Australia, Soli-
citors for the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. — lx Divorce.
TO VAUGHAN METCALFE POLLARD
late of 4 Reserve Street Grafton. —
TAKE NOTICE that SHEILA MARY
METCALFE POLLARD has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce. No. 1180 of 1956 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 6th August 1957 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from McNAMARA & JAMES, Solicitors,
of 17 Skinner Street, South Grafton;
or HILL THOMSON A SULLIVAN, Soli-
citors, 11. l Pitt Street, Sydney, City-
Agents.—J. DOUG HAN, Registrar.
j 'F^utk
Fultw*c
k
Whenever I see the priceless tract of country
which is Queensland’s Darling Downs I try to
imagine the thoughts of Allan Cunningham when
he first beheld it on June 5, 1827.
Such a moment in the sighting of a new
splendour is reserved to the adventurous few—
and Cunningham’s faith in what Australia held
was thus rewarded in the sweep of one exploring
day.
As a botanist with John Oxley on his journey
up the Brisbane River in 1824 he had seen the
chain of mountains rising blue in the west. Three
years later he was leading a land expedition up
through New South Wales to seek out the mysteries
they guarded.
Swinging east along his thirsty course in a
time of drought he was granted his glimpse of the
rich, rolling country which—though he was not
to know it —embraced 25.000 square miles of soil
extraordinarily deep and fertile.
In the story of Australia’s early expansion
there are surely few more dramatic, incidents than
the meeting of Cunningham with Patrick Leslie,
years later, at “The Vineyard,” the Parramatta
home of Hannibal Macarthur.
It was an appointment with history: Cunning-
ham glowing in his description of the Downs,
Leslie anxious to find new pastures for his stock.
When Leslie set out with his sheep in 1840
to establish - there the first permanent pastoral
settlement in the future State of Queensland,
Cunningham was not at hand to guide him; he
had died in the previous year.
In the Sydney Botanical Gardens is an obelisk,
surrounded by reeds that grow in the pond in which
it stands. The remains of Allan Cunningham rest
there. They were raised from the Devonshire
Street cemetery and reverently placed in the obelisk
in 1901.
It was a fitting year for his enshrinement —the
year in which the country he had served so well
attained to Federal nationhood.
His wider monument is a pastel province tha'
is among the land treasures of Australia.
// //<zsf“^s
7
honest methods to obtain news,
pictures and documents.
(7) He shall reveal his identity as
tu representative of the press before
obtaining any personal interview for
the purpose of using it for
publication.
( 8 ) He shall do his utmost to
maintain full confidence in the
integrity and dignity of the calling of
the journalist.”
Brief Answers
1.D.Y.: (1) Suggest you contact
Romebush Abattoirs for those
details. (2) Basically, a crusher and
a dehydrator. (3) As far as is
known, none; nor is it necessary to
lake steps to prevent the spread of
disease, as the organisms would be
automatically killed in the
dehydrator. There are regulations,
however, controlling the standard of
fertiliser manufactured by this means
if it is intended for sale. Blood-
and-bone sold as a fertiliser must
be registered in accordance with the
Fertiliser Act R.G.J.: (1) This
one's becoming a regular. It was, jn
the main, financed by the raising of
loan-money; the method generally
used to finance railway-construction
in Australia. (2) Andrew Fisher,
Prime Minister and Treasurer
R.C.: Sony; no can do. If you are
interested in any specific figure,
might be able to help... .H.W.W.:
Hardly R.H.W.: None whatso-
ever ... .T. 8.5.: The 14-day Ampol
Trial will start in Sydney on July 7
and travel through Melbourne,
Adelaide, Birdsville, Mt. Isa, Cairns
and Brisbane, then back to Sydney
—approximately 6000 miles
8.J.C.: That’s a nasty one. There
would be little in the issue between
Sydney Harbor and Rio de Janeiro;
others that would come in for a
show are Hong New York,
Portsmouth, ' Milford Haven,
Kingston—and others, depending on
where you were born... .L.G.P.:
Vary unlikely; no readily available
information F.T.C.: (1) Belore
Federation, yes; but on establish-
ment of the Commonwealth Bank
the note-issue was handled by it. (2)
No. (3) It must be understood that
the note-issuing department of the
Central Bank is a quite distinct
department. Suggest you get
hold of an economics-hand-
book, such as Renwick and Simpson-
Lees’ The Economic Pattern....
L B.: (1) The Commonwealth Wheat
Industry Stabilisation Act of 1946,
passed by the Chifiey Labor
Government, was not proclaimed
because the State Governments did
not pass the necessary comple-
mentary legislation. (2) The Com-
monwealth Wheat Indu s t r y
Stabilisation Act of 1948 provided
for, among other things, a
guaranteed price of 6s. 3d. a bushel
lor ports, bulk basis; variation of
this guaranteed price according to
an index of production-costs for
each season starling with the
1948-49 crop, to apply up to the
end ol the 1952-53 season; guaran-
teed price for any one season's crops
not to apply to exports in excess of
100-million bushels; and establish-
ment of a stabilisation-fund financed
by a tax on wheat exported at prices
higher than the guaranteed price.
(3) During the whole period of the
operation of the 1948-53 stabilisation
scheme, export-prices were well
above the guaranteed price. (4) See
The Wheat Industry in Australia, by
A. R. Callaghan and A. J. Milling-
lon (1956), or The Australian Wheat-
growing Industry 1788-1948, by
Edgars Dunsdorfs (1956) J.J.F.:
Lieut.-General Sir Carl Jess, who
was Adjutant-General of the Aus-
tralian Military Forces (1934-39) and
chairman of the Australian Man-
power Committee during World War
H, died on June 16, 1948....
K.MacC.: (1) The lines (“Ring out
the old, ring in the new”; “Ring
out the false, ring in the true";
“Ring out, wild bells, to the wild
sky,” etc.) are from Tennyson's “In
Memoriam.” (2) “Mortality Weighs
heavily on me like unwilling sleep”
is from Keats's “On Seeing the
Elgin Marbles” A.C.: (1) The
Peron regime was overthrown by a
four-day revolt of the Argentine
aimed forces, Sept. 16-19, 1955. On
Sept. 23 General Eduardo Lonardi
was installed as provisional President
of Argentina, but was himself
deposed in a bloodless coup d’etat
on Nov. 13, 1955. General
Lonardi was succeeded as President
by General Pedro Eugenio
Aramburu, who had been chief of
the general staff,' and who is still
President. (2) Main reason for the
deposition of Lonardi was his
“over-tolerant attitude to former
Peronista supporters.” (3) General
Peron was given political asylum in
Panama from Feb. 29, 1956.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SUEZ SIGHS
/COMMENTING editorially
on the communique issued
by the Suez Canal Users’ Asso-
ciation after it had considered
Nasser’s terms for the use of
the canal, London “Daily Tele-
graph” dismisses “all the sound
and fury of verbal disapproval
and about reserving rights” as
signifying “little or nothing.”
“They are,” the paper adds,
“disingenuous attempts to
minimise the victory which
the Americans and the United
Nations won for Nasser last
November”:
“It is, of course, true that
we [Britain] shall need
American help in the second
round—if, as may be hoped,
there is one —and that there-
fore recrimination about the
past would, after its educational
function is exhausted, be a
waste of time. But that does
not mean that we should tamely
follow an American leader and
consider, as Mr. Dulles seems
to do, that there is nothing to
be done in mitigation of
humiliation.”
Noting that the communique
broadly leaves it to every
maritime country to use the
canal as far as each considers
it necessary, the “D.T.”
comments that, “since Britain
has made no reservations, it is
unhappily indicated that her
use will be considerable”:
“We [Britain] do not seem
likely to echo the French in
refusing to recommend any use
at all. No doubt we consider
that the price of eternal petrol
is humiliation, and must be
paid. Nor do we echo the
Spanish reservation that only
the United Nations is com-
petent to pronounce whether
Nasser’s terms conform to the
six principles laid down by the
Security Council.
“This second omission is
more surprising than the first.
We ought to take the matter
to the Council even if we
encountered there a Russian
veto. For, as the communique
itself states, the terms clearly
do not conform, apd we should
force the Americans either to
side with us or to confess the
‘phony law and fuzzy morals’
of their past policy. There
would be some moral salvage
from the wreck.”
Further British press-
comment is hardly more
optimistic:
London “Daily Express” :
“Nasser got his way over the
U.N.O. police-force. He got
his way over the Gaza Strip. He
got his way over the clearing of
the canal. And now he gets his
way over the terms for using it.
“There is plenty to regret,
but nothing to cause surprise.
London “Daily Mirror”
“AND THEY ALL SAID THAT I WOULD PROVE
THEM RIGHT!”
This humiliation has been in
the cards from the beginning.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail”:
“There is little the British
Government can do at this
stage but to remind the United
Nations of Egypt’s failure to
meet the wishes «-f that
organisation, and to see that
Colonel Nasser does not go
back on his assurances, un-
satisfactory though they are.
“A storm in the House of
Commons is not likely to blow
him off his course. But there
are forces at work in the
Middle East which may well
deflate him. In the meantime
we must face facts and bide
our time.”
* * *
London “Financial Times”:
“If the other maritime Powers
start to use the canal to an
increasing extent then Britain
cannot afford to maintain a
solitary boycott, or one in
league with France alone. Such
a policy would damage Britain
far more than Egypt and it
would also fail.”
The same: “He [Nasser]
should recognise that it [his
victory] is a most costly one,
in terms of the future of the
canal itself. Since last July the
need to avoid reliance on the
canal, except as an alternative
means of transport for oil, has
come to be accepted by most
Western European countries
and by most international oil
companies.
“Colonel Nasser’s actions,
and his aggressive speeches,
have played their part in an
almost revolutionary change in
the planning both of energy
supplies and investment and in
oil-transport.
“Whereas early last year there
was extensive discussion of the
expansion of the Suez Canal,
there is now a permanent
emphasis on new super-tanker
construction and on the new
international pipeline in the
Middle East. At the same time
in Europe existing nuclear-
power programmes have been
increased by amounts ranging
upward from 100 to 200 per
cent. The Governments of
Europe are all equally deter-
mined to reduce their depen-
dence on imported fuel.
“Finally, the last few months
have shown that Suez does not
have a stranglehold on
Europe.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian”:
“The chief political threat in
the canal zone is, of course,
that of Egyptian discrimina-
tion against Israeli ships. It
may also be the danger which
the British Government would
most readily like to forget. It
is all very well for Conser-
vatives to blame the United
Nations for failing to do any-
thing about Egyptian discrimi-
nation.
“True, for six years Egypt
went on defying the Security
Council ruling that she had
no business to keep out Israeli
ships. But what was the British
Government doing about it?
For part of that time it went on
supplying Egypt with arms: it
did nothing about discrimina-
tion.
“Once again it looks as
though we [Britain] may
relapse into this do-nothing
attitude, complaining the while
that the United Nations will
not enforce its own rules. Yet
the United Nations is the sum
of its members’ efforts.”
Israel
Looking over Israel’s past
and future as the country enters
the 10th year of its existence,
London “Financial Times”
likens it to “the figure of a
frontier settler who must buy
ammunition and keep his gun
at the ready, while trying to
plough the land for a future
harvest. Israel, moreover, must
assimilate an inflow of migrants
whose number this year alone
is likely to exceed 4.2 per cent,
of the population.”
There is a degree of inflation
in the country, the “Financial
Times” adds, and the answer
to this must be sought in
increased foreign aid and
investment. With little hope
of the country’s trade-balance
improving, reparation payments
from Germany, private dona-
tions and promised French
credits should help with the
country’s deficit, but they must
be increasingly suplemented by
“higher export-earnings and
straightforward commercial
investment.”
Commenting in New York
“Herald Tribune” on the same
occasion, Monica Elston notes
that, “apart from economic
problems, „ Israel’s prospects
are brighter than they have
ever been. In a way the State
seems to have matured during
the past year, to be much more
than a mere 365 days older
than on its last birthday.
“Then there were still wise
men who seriously doubted
Israel’s ability to survive;
unkind men who doubted
whether she should survive.


/
/
/
■- \ v
v - s=< ,'
'5 -<>S
Xi-Xy.;.
<•>*£s:., ■•’ >#>>>:>
■■ %
'V'' _%
% i
■> *~v *S ri
...^
SELf-SUPPORTING AND
HAVE RUSTPROOF BUCKLES
EVERY SEAM IS
SERGED WITH AN OVERLOCK STITCH
You can see that difference. The first time you wear Stamina
Self-Supporting Trousers, you’ll know they are the most com-
fortable, attractive slacks you’ve ever had. That’s what happens
when fine fabrics are expertly cut and handsomely finished by
tailoring craftsmen. They fit perfectly. They look smarter.
Try a pair. See what a difference they make to you.
/
x £s£*/■-* -V x -
j
f S.4W@B& f \
><_ * \
J wombs'
Available in all
the most wanted
shades:
Light Green Zircon
Nutmeg Fawn
Harbour Blue
Dark Green Reseda
/list Grey
mmm
&
CLOTHES
TA.113
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
Now, except in the Arab States,
it would be hard to find anyone
who did not believe Israel was
fixed on the map to stay.”
To which London “Daily
Telegraph” adds:
“Nine years of courage, hope
and hard work have established
Israeli agriculture and industry;
built cities, roads and railways ;
raised a new tradition on the
foundations of the old.
“All this has been done
under relentless pressure, both
of immigrants \yho have to
be absorbed and of enemies
who must be repelled. But"
pressure itself, especially the
sharing of common dangers and
common privations, can forge a
heterogeneous mass of people
into a nation. Her very in-
security has stood Israel in
good stead. Whatever may be
the terms of her ultimate peace-
treaty with the Arab States, her
future existence must no
longer be questioned.”
"The Grand Design"
In further comment on the
“grand design” for Europe
which Britain advanced at the
Strasbourg conference, London
“Time and Tide” rates the
rejection of the proposal as
“the failure of one of the few
great concepts that have
originated in Britain for a
very long time”:
“The ‘grand design’ for
Europe outlined at Strasbourg
deserved thought and
encouragement; unfortunately
it was presented in a half-
baked form and revealed the
British Government as out ol
touch with European attitudes
and reality.
“The idea of a Central
Assembly to co-ordinate all the
diverse activities of such
regional organisations as the
Western European Union,
0.E.E.C., Nato, the Messina
Powers, the Iron and Steel
Community, and so on,
represents an attempt to move
into the future and to cut down
all the petty barriers which
hamper real Western co-
operation. But the idea was
either extremely badly pre-
sented or, more likely, never
clearly thought out.
“Mr. Macmillan’s Govern-
ment is admittedly, and of
necessity, in a hurry, but that
is no excuse for presenting a
plan to the world in a manner
which conveys an impression
precisely the opposite of what
is intended.
“Although it is desirable that
Western Europe’s political and
economic problems should be
considered together by one


Nothing Matches ECONO
FOR
LOW COST
GET THE
ECONO PRICE
FOR THAT
BUILDING YOU WANT
ECONO SHEARERS' QUARTERS
Econo construction ensures strong, rigid, white-ant
proof, rot-proof, fire resistant frame, assures you of a
building able to take hard use without expensive
maintenance. Designs and sizes to accommodate any
number of men comply with Rural Workers’ Act—
pat it up faster, put it up better, put it up cheaper
with Econo.
ECONO SHEARING SHED ...
Strong, rigid, durable white-ant and rot-proof
Econo steel frame designed for 2,3, 4, 5 or G
stands, complete with all internal fittings and
planned for utmost ease in handling sheep and
convenience in classing and pressing—centre or
side shearing boards. Econo—the value-for-
money shearing shed.
To ECONO STEEL COMPANY
Div. of Tulloch Ltd.
Concord Road, Rhodes, N.S.W. (UF 1231)
Send me the facts on ECONO faster, cheaper construction
for *•* • * • • type of |
building. I
Name .
Address
See the ECONO
BUILDING at the Sheep
Show off Main Judging
Ping or call UP 1231
for c o mp I ete details
Ofher
ECONO BUILDINGS
FOR FARM AND STATION
• ECONO RAM SHEDS
• ECONO SHEEP SHELTER SHEDS
• ECONO HAY SHEDS
• ECONO UTILITY SHEDS
• ECONO MACHINERY SHEDS
supra-national European body,
it cannot be overlooked that
the regional organisations
already in existence do
function and are effective and
efficient, while the supra-
national authority is as yet no
more than a dream. To try to
superimpose a ‘grand design’
over all lesser organisations
would, at this stage, mean
bringing to an end the good
work already being done in
more limited spheres.
“Furthermore, Western
European affairs are intimate
matters. However welcome
American and Canadian and
Turkish and Greek interest in
them may be, the effect can-
not be other than the exchange
of a workmanlike structure for
a debating-chamber. It was a
particularly ill-conceived idea
to try to link neutral nations
like Sweden and Austria with
the military commitments of
the members of Nato. Austria
particularly dare not even
consider such a proposition
without inviting an eruption.
“In short, Britain gave the
impression of trying to wreck
what European co-operafton
already exists. That was not
the intention, but the ‘grand
design’ required precise thought
and careful presentation.
Western Europe has already
progressed a long way towards
integration, and it has done so
without British help: it is too
late for us now to barge in
like a bull in a china-shop.
We must have something more
constructive to offer than a
vague ‘grand design.’
“But the Government should
not be discouraged. It is
working along the right lines.
A little more thought and a
little more diplomacy will make
all the difference.”
Various Voices
Norwegian Ambassador to
Great Britain, Per Prebensen :
“A diplomat is a person who
tries to solve complicated
problems which would never
have arisen if there were no
diplomats.”'
* * *
Mr. Butler: “If we [the
U.K.] were ever able to find
a solution to the vexed
problem of increased wages
being allied to higher produc-
tivity, we should have gone far
to solving our main economic
difficulties. It remains as true
as ever that a higher wage
which leads to and is then
absorbed by a higher price is
the economics not of prosperity
but of Alice through the Look-
ing Glass. If we want real
prosperity we must work for
it, and consume its benefits with
patience and restraint.”
* * *
S:r Winston Churchill: “Man
does not live by bread alone.
Our aim [in Britain] must be
men and women ’ not only
skibed and diligent in earning
a living, but having access to
those deep wells in which lie
the secrets of the future. The
world around us is changing
fast. For good or ill, new and
disturbing powers are falling
into the hands of mankind.
They may bring an unsurpassed
blessing or a senseless and
meaningless wholesale destruc-
tion. We must hope that man's
wisdom will match his widen-
ing knowledge.”
* * *
Lord Hailsham : “To preach
a doctrine of equality in a state
of full employment is to pro-
claim the principle that ' the
gifted, the enterprising and the
industrious are to be "for ever
exploited by the others, and to
create a permanent state of
privilege in favor of the thrift-
less, the lazy and the selfish.”
* * *
Dr. Adenauer: “Surely
nobody is so naive as to
suppose that it was pure coin-
cidence that from the moment
Nato was founded Com-
munism ceased to meet with
success in the West. We owe
the peace and security in which
we have carried out the recon-
struction of Europe and the
Federal Republic to the shield
of Nato.”


. •* 4
mil
y /
m
m
.Surt;
fa. i
between
bidding
and shipping
the 'Adelaide
operates
swiftly
in the
Highly-skilled technical officers
specially trained in all aspects of finance
connected with the wool industry
will gladly discuss any problems
affecting your business
CONSULT OUR WOOL MANAGERS AT
ADELAIDE . SYDNEY . MELBOURNE
BRISBANE OR PERTH OFFICES
interests and
service of
wool buyers
I m\m.£
and brokers
"/J
vm
WA
MSS. \
i \
•SiM
■'Si
Vi
Gty? lawk of Af> platin'
"INCORPORATED IN 186 S In SOUTH AUSTRALIA WITH LIMITED LIABILITY "
ALAN A. WEST GENERAL MANAGER
ADELAIDE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,'' BRISBANE, PERTH and LONDON


A Woolclasser Classes
Woolclassers
By BILL HOWARD
YOU came out of your
wool - broker’s office
armed with the wool-
manager’s casual in-
structions :
“Catch the Bourke mail to-
night. Get off at Cockadotta
Siding tomorrow. They’ll meet
you there. They’re nice people
. . . Make big lots and skirt
lightly . . . Good luck.”
Of course no one meets you
next day, and you drift over
to the pub, where there’s the
inevitable message from the
pre-shearing harassed owner or
manager who has just phoned
the publican: “If you see a
bloke looking like a wool-
classer, Jim, leg-rope him and
tell him I’ll be in in half-an-
hour.”
Meanwhile the wool-manager
has telegraphed Cockadotta
Downs: “Classer Weakstaple
leaving on tonight’s mail,
please meet,” and over the
party-line it goes until it reaches
Mrs. Grazier, who, as she gets
clean sheets out of the linen-
cupboard, mutters to herself:
“Dear me, what a nuisance!
A strange man in the house
... no labor, either. Ido hope
he’s not untidy and a menace
like the man last year.”
But if you’re a clever classer
and want to get on you’re not
a nuisance at the homestead.
You make your own bed in the
morning ; you leave slippers on
the veranda to change into so
you won’t trail shearing-shed
muck through the house ; you
efface yourself early to your
own room, and at meal-times
you prattle to Mrs. Grazier
about all the new shows in
Sydney and the new styles till
the silent, sheep-obsessed owner
throws you a sardonic look
from his side of the table, no
doubt thinking:
“Blime, what’s this I’ve hired
—a woolclasser or a blasted
entertainer?”
So you pull your social head
in and talk to the boss about
the tragic shortage of shearers
in the industry.
But this little sycophancy
pays dividends next year when
shearing arrangements are
being discussed. Mrs. Grazier
will pipe up: “Do let’s have
Mr. Weakstaple back. Such
a nice man in the house!”
But never take the tea-
towel! One must never sink
that low! Once you volunteer
you’re sunk. It’s then on
every night, and after that mad
bustle of shearing-shed work
you just want to put your feet
up and listen to the wireless.
There’s a saying among
woolclassers that there are
more woolclassers than sheep
in Australia, and that classers
are needed to class the classers!
Blokes who fail umpteen
times in first-year law or
medicine: “We’ll make him a
woolclasser and pack him off
to the scrub,” say the irate
parents. The types who find
too many beery oases in Castle-
reagh-street: “We'll make him
a woolclasser and pack him off
to the back country (where
there are only beery mirages),”
say the irate parents. Restless
characters who can’t stick a
steady job. “We’ll make him
a woolclasser, etc.,” say the
same very irate parents.
Perhaps these little generali-
sations about classers are a
bit harsh. Since War II there
has been an influx of C.R.T.S.
men and keen youngsters.
Anyway, when you first go
to the bush you make a lot of
gaffs unconnected with wool.
What to wear that first night
for dinner? I’ve learnt never
to be impressed by the
apparent prosperity or preten-
tiousness of the homestead. At
a luxurious homestead the
owner may come to dinner
straight from the drafting-
yards with a pair of crutch-
ing-shears dangling from his
belt. But you, impressed by
such a beaut, place, have got
on the old port-crushed blue
suit, and, collared-and-tied like
a citizen of Martin-place, you
feel awful!
Or you may arrive at a de-
crepit old homestead, so you
think you’ll adjust yourself,
and you emerge for dinner that
night all sporty —even a little
proletarian-like—and are horri-
fied to find them all gathered
sipping sherry and “tizzied up”
with great sartorial elegance!
Then there is grog. After a
day of the frantic tempo of
shearing-shed work it is fine
to slug yourself with a Big
Rum. But what will you do?
Bring out the bottle and shout
for the owner, or drink alone
in your room and slink out at
tucker-time feeling like Ray
Milland in “Lost Weekend”?
There is something anti-social
about rum, and you may earn
the condemnation: “The
classer drinks, you know.”
But it’s very anguishing if
you bring your bottle and see
your fortnight’s portmanteau-
carried ration consumed in one
careless night by the manager
and his jackeroos.
In many cases the wool-
classer is not “camped” at the
homestead, but is down in the
huts with the shearears. Many
“woollies” prefer this set-up.
Life is less complex there
sartorially and socially, and no
shearer resents the anti-social
odor of rum coming across the
tea-table at him . . . And there
are no tea-towels.
To be a good woolclasser
one has to know human- as
well as wool-qualities, and be
a mixture of diplomat, stooge
and yes-man. From the owner
down to the boy on the board,
no one loves you!
The is
only concerned about the sheep
whizzing down the chute, and
to please him you have to
perform miracles at clean-ups
and cut-outs. He will stand
beside you watching for the
signal to start shearing again.
He would like the abolition of
all classers!
The shearer derisively calls
the classer a confidence-man.
Long, short or shabby . . .
close your eyes and throw it
over the shoulder! He re-
gards you, too, as a perpetual
threat to big tallies if you stop-
shearing because of bad light
or wet wool.
The “babbler” also is not
too happy with the classer, be-
cause he may have to set-up
and maintain an extra dining-
room where you and the boss
of the board may eat with
undemocratic aloneness.
The “rousies” usually are
only concerned with getting
through the days with a mini-
mum of effort and efficiency,
and will call you a “fussy”
blankard to themselves if you
try to get a good job done.
You are sometimes in con-
flict with the woolpresser when
you insist upon him sweeping
his floor .after pressing each
bale. Woolpressers are usually
particularly burly, powerful
men, and a particularly burly
one may come across the meal-
room at you shouting, “I’ve
had more chips from you in
one day than I’ve had in
(Continued on page 68)


NOW- A Fountain Pen
that
Instant Starting ... No Flooding
No Leaking ... No Drying Up
The new Onoto “99” starts writing the instant
its nib touches paper. Thanks to a special
“breathing” system, the ink flow is perfectly
controlled always, giving you fast, smooth, clean
writing all the time.
•—and a choice of nibs to suit
your hand exactly
There’s an Onoto “99” nib to suit every style
of writing from finest to broadest. And because
the nib unit is easily changed the one
that suits your hand exactly can be
fitted right at the counter where you-
buy. See the new Onoto “99”
at any good store.
ANq
Wart
gift
sets
i
On 0 * 0
Onoto “99” Pen and
Pencil Set. Attractive
Gift Box .. 75/-
Other Onoto Sets from
52/6
New "Breathing*
Fine tube insidm
barrel feeds air,
controls ink
flow exactly.
0
<*- IS
New Filler
Concealed filler
trigger. Easy to
use. Quick, posi-
tive action.
New Easy-fo«
Change Nib
Can be changed
when you buy
to give you the
nib that suits
you best.
onoto
J
In Black,
Green, Maroon or
Grey. Gift Boxed.
Other Onoto Pens
from ..... 28/6
PENS, PENCILS
BALL PENS
Manufacturers: Norman Baker & Longhurst Pty. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne
4.0. W
the South Australian pioneers,
the later flocks in Queensland,
the rise of the Peppin
strain and the great studs
of !he Riverina. All this
has been said, in some detail,
in the two earlier Wool Issues.
But it is worth repeating that
wool is a national industry. It
is easy, living in one State, to
lose sight of what is being done
in another. Hence the article
on woolgrowing in Western
Australia is appropriate to the
occasion. It seems appropriate,
too, to mention that sheep are
now being raised on the New
Guinea highlands.
Professor Francis, in his
article, mentions work being
done at the Queensland Uni-
versity Farm on the drought-
feeding of sheep. An immense
amount of work has been done
on drought-feeding, in differ-
ent parts of Australia, and the
results have been widely pub-
licised. Franklin, McClymont
and others have published
papers which have been incor-
porated in standard references.
Any detailed discussion of
principles would be useless
without the comprehensive
tables giving relative feed-
values which can be had from
State Departments of Agricul-
ture and C.5.1.R.0.: the Aus-
tralian Wool Board’s Hand-
book for Woolgrowers has a
very good section on the
subject; so has Belschner’s
Sheep Management and
Diseases.
Every drought begins as a
partial drought. In the
beginning a limited amount of
dry grazing and light supple-
mentary feeding will keep
sheep in fairly strong condi-
tion. Provided the drought
doesn’t go on too long, sheep
can lose up to 40 per cent, of
body-weight, or even more, and
still pick-up when the drought
breaks.
In this issue Hugh Gordon
gives a drenching-programme
which, he says, should be
Allowed irrespective of the
type of season. Worms can do
more harm to a sheep in poor
condition than to a healthy
sheep. Even if fresh infestation
doesn’t follow, the original
load of worms can do con-
siderable harm —at the
McMaster Animal Health
Laboratory sheep have carried
worms, without fresh infesta-
tion, for 12 months —and, of
course, rain can bring fresh
infestation to weak sheep, and
kill them. It’s an angle a
grazier might not think of, but
an important one.
In the meantime Australia’s
final wool-cheque seems likely
to be around £460 million—
the increase coming not only
from higher prices but from
increased quantity. A healthy
symptom. The main danger for
wool, the Commonwealth Wool
Adviser, E. M. Waterman, told
the Victorian Chamber of
Agriculture recently, is that the
wool-producers of the world
won’t be able to supply
demand ; that wool might be
priced off the backs of many
consumers.
And this, in essence, was
the argument of the people
who opposed the embargo on
the export of Merinos. It was
argued that what Australia had
to fear was not the competition
of other woolgrowing coun-
tries but the competition of
synthetics. If this line of
reasoning is proved right, it
seems a pity that the Tasmanian
fine-wool studs were ruined in
support of a false premise.
But immediate prospects
look good. There is a feel-
ing that synthetics haven’t
lived up to all the claims made
for them, and there is new
vigor in the promotion of
wool use. How far Australia’s
economy should continue to
be. tied to wool remains an
open question, but for the
present it is, and anything that
can make the industry more
efficient is in the interest of
every Australian.


Potentialities and Differences
Woolgrowing In the West
By M. WALLACE
THE general pattern of
the beginning and
development of a wool-
growing - industry in
Western Australia has, as
might be expected, many
points of similarity with that
of the eastern States ; but there
are also' marked differences.
Geography alone would
account for that —not only the
distance between both sides of
the continent (which, of course,
was more obvious in the early
days of settlement than it is
today) but variations within
the western State itself.
Western Australia’s enor-
mous area of nearly one-million
square-miles covers almost
every variety of soil and
climate, and rarely are the right
soils and climate found
together, and in the right
geographical position, for easy
and econoniical development.
A great deal of the pros-
perity of the woolgrowers of
the West is due, not to the
bounty of Nature, but to
their victory over Nature’s
deficiencies, to the fact that
they have been able to make
the proverbial two blades of
grass grow where nothing grew
before, and that thev have
able to establish pastures which
are carrying quality sheep and
cattle on land that little more
than a generation ago was not
considered to be worth the
trouble of clearing.
They have made their mis-
takes, of course, and the other
side of the picture may be
found in much of the pastoral
country, where years of over-
stocking, profit-taking and bad
husbandry have produced con-
ditions where Nature, in
recurrent droughts, has taken
her revenge, and only the
hawks and wild dogs prosper.
When Captain Stirling
landed in 1829 he took posses-
sion of a land that had been
rejected by the Dutch and the
French as unsuitable for settle-
ment. Whalers, of half a
dozen nationalities, were the
only ones to make even a
temporary use of it.
Unlike the previous landing
at King George’s Sound, where
a Major Lockyer had been sent
to establish a settlement just
in case the French might have
changed their minds, Captain
Stirling’s expedition was quite
well planned.
The authorities who
arranged the operation had
judged that, as in the east, t'he
sheepbreeding-industry would
be the quickest and most profit-
able way of developing the new
colony.
CjTIRLING was not em-
barrassed with a quantity
of sheep before he had time to
settle down ; and when they did
come their arrival was care-
fully spaced. The first sheep
were landed some three months
after the Swan River Settle-
ment was founded, and more
came at frequent intervals
thereafter, in lots of from 50
to 200 per ship.
When Stirling made his first
survey of the new colony, late
in 1829, he reported a total of
1469 sheep as having been
brought in from England and
New South Wales. The follow-
ing year the tally had risen to
7981, and 10 years later, in
1840, to 30,961.
The first thing that settlers
in a new country look for is
an assured water - supply:
usually they find good stock-
feed adjacent* to the water.
Where Stirling had made his
first base there was any
amount of water, and enough
feed on the alluvial ground
near by to sustain his small
flocks.
As their numbers increased
the flocks spread out up the
Swan and Avon valleys,
through the ranges that were
named Stirling, until they came
to the country where their
SCENE ON A WESTRALIAN SHEEP PROPERTY.
owners established little town-
ships and gave them names:
York, Northam and Newcastle,
Shipments of wool had been
made to London and sold for
as much as 2s. a pound. Not
all of these shipments were so
satisfactory. One grower, after
waiting 18 months for his
returns, found that his wool
had fetched only 4d. a pound,
which left him with a loss of
2d. a pound.
The considerable area of
good farming country
surrounding York and
Northam may be considered as
the nursery of Westralian
woolgrowing ; from here the
flocks spread north and south,
mainly south at first, to link-up
with those that had made their
way up from Albany,
One of the earliest districts
to be stocked in what is now
known as the Great Southern
was Kojonup, which was
settled by men who brought
their sheep from each direc-
tion, some from the Swan
River Settlement and some
from Albany,
The old pioneers, like the
old prospectors, didn’t miss
much. They covered a lot of
country, and where they finally
settled-down their judgment of
land has stood the test of
time. Kojonup and the
adjacent country of the lower
Great Southern is what is
known as the “blue-wool”
country, and it grows the finest
wool in the State,
In covering a lot of country
the early settlers had no choice.
They found that, compared
with New South Wales, for
instance, there was very little
good land, and what there was
had wide variations in quality.


top price
this morning Bill
m
. , 1
w
s&g&jg
■>«>£>
m
mm
m
■■
5T
-Rural property management in-
volves the frequent sale of stock and produce
which often leaves the farmer with large sums of
working capital on his hands for a period. These
days the shrewd farmer doesn’t leave money idle
■— he puts it to work earning interest in National
Bank Interest Bearing Deposits available for
periods from 3 months to 2 years. These deposits
ensure that his money is not tied up for longer
than need be. They are absolutely safe, and guar-
antee him a fixed return unaffected by market
fluctuations.
If you have money lying idle discuss New
Higher Interest Bearing Deposits with the manager
of your local National Bank. He will show you
how your idle money can be put to safe, con-
venient and profitable use.
NATIONAL BANK
&TJ a aiar-vgaisia
NATIONAL BANK
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITEI* (INC. IN VIC.)
4551/82/«
There were none of the rich
natural grasses that made up
the pastures of the east, water
was scarce, and the bush was
full of poison plants which
were fatal to sheep. Losses
from dingoes and natives were
considerable, and there was
always a shortage of labor,
shepherds receiving as much as
£5O to £6O a year.
Developments to the north
followed much the same
pattern, the sheep making their
way up through the midlands,,
settling-down on the best
country, and moving on again
to eventually meet their fellows
which had been sent to the
Geraldton district by sea.
This district, like that of
Northam and York, made an
excellent base, and it was from
here, by land and sea, that the
restless sheepmen, always look-
ing for something better
further on, found what
appeared to be the Promised
Land —the great areas of
pastoral country of ' the
Murchison and the Gascoyne.
For hundreds of miles to the
east and 1500 miles to the north
it was all theirs.
All this had taken time, of
course, but from this stage the
increase in the numbers of
sheep was rapid.
Between 1870 and 1880 the
sheep-population of the State
increased from about 600,000
to over 1,200,000, and in the
next 10 years it rose to over
2,500,000.
r_ pHE gold discoveries of the
’nineties and the subsequent
construction of railways
opened-up much more country
for the pastoralist, with a> con-
sequent rise in the number of
sheep, which made an extra-
ordinary jump of from an
average of about three-million
for the three years 1905-07 to
just over four-million in iyo6.
During all this time the
woolgrowing-industry in the
areas other than the pastoral
country had been steadily
increasing, although in 1900
it was less than a third of the
production of the north-west.
The opening-up of the
wheat-country east of the
Northam-York district early in
the century, and its subsequent
boom in the ’twenties, had an
enormous, though delayed,
effect.
It took some time before
sheep could be introduced on
any scale into this area, mainly
because of its lack of natural
grasses.
There was a considerable
increase in development in the
eastern-goldfields areas in the
middle-’thirties, mainly from
the eastern States.
By 1935 the State’s sheep
totalled over 11-million, almost
equally divided between the
pastoral and the agricultural
areas. With a total of about
5,500,000 sheep, the pastoral
areas had reached a peak from
which they fell very sharply,
and which they have never
regained. The 1936 drought
brought their numbers down
to well below three-million,
and they have never since
reached higher than 3,500,000.
To bring the statistics up to
date the present position is
that there are about 15-million
sheep in Westralia, and 80 per
cent, of them are in the south-
west division of the State, that
is, west of a line drawn from
Northampton to Esperance.
In other words, the wheel
has turned full circle, and the
greater part of the Spate’s
woolgrowing is being carried
on in country within transport
distance of the Swan River or
King George’s Sound, where
it was started.
nnHE present prosperous con-
-*■ dition of the Westralian
woolgrowing-industry, and its
even happier prospects for the
future, can be attributed to
a plant which, little more than
50 years ago, was not listed in
any seedsman’s catalogue. It
has been called “The Wonder
Plant of the West” —subter-
ranean-clover.
What subterranean - clover
has done in other countries
and other States is remarkable
enough, but what it has done
o Continued on page 79)


NOW!
is the time to ensure the abundance of your pastures
for the forthcoming ser.sons, be they good or bad, with
AERIAL SUPERING
LIQUID SPRAYING
Greatly improve 9 The Carrying Capacity and 9 The Value of your Property—your
Best Prosperity Insurance 9 Minimise Drought and Bushiire Risks
Supering Charges from £5/18/- Per Ton
For quick, efficient service provided by our fleet of 8 specialty planes, experienced
aviators and ground crews, contact our local country agents.
GOULBURN : Thomas Williams
Pty. Ltd.,' 299 Auburn St.
Phone 138.
GUNDAGAI: L. M. Boynton &
Son, Licensed Auctioneers.
Phone 20.
GUNNING: J. Morgan, Esq.,
Yass St. Phone 33.
COOLA1I: H. O. Haynes & Sons
Pty. Ltd., Binnia St. Phone 23.
CBOOKWEEL : Mackaness &
Avery Pty. Ltd., Goulburn
St. Phone 46.
ORANGE: J. A. Boultbee, Esq..,
Peisley and Kite Sts. Phone
5953.
BOOROWA: Pitt, Son & Bad-
gery Pty. Ltd., Marsden St.
Phone 82.
YASS: E. L. Kelly & Go., 151
Comur St. Phone SO.
BRAIDWOOD: New Zealand
Loan & Mercantile Agency,
Wool Brokers. Phone 117.
ADELOXG: J. D. Isaac & Son,
Live Stock Exchange. Phone
28.
COONABARABKAN: H. C.
Dawson Pty. Ltd., Auc-
tioneers. Phone 6S.
AIR SPRAY SERVICES CORPORATION PTY. LTD.
SUBSIDIARY OF AUST. AIRCRAFT SALES
HEAD OFFICE: 40 DARLINGHURST RD., KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY. Phone: FA 9712.
OPERATIONAL BASE: HANGAR 58, CAMDEN AERODROME.
Young, but Important
Queensland Veterinary School
By JOHN FRANCIS
THE University of Queens-
land Veterinary School
was established in 1936
and made a vigorous
start, but unfortunately was
closed during World War II
as most of the staff and
students volunteered for active
service. In the six years, 1951-
1956, 76 students graduated
from the school, including 18
with scholarships from the
Department of Agriculture and
Stock.
These men, as well as our
graduates, are playing
•B important part in assisting
the livestock industries of the
State: one may mention,
especially, Dr. G. R. Moule,
who is now Director of the
Sheep Husbandry Department
in the Department of Agricul-
ture and Stock, and L. G.
Newton, now Chief Patholo-
gist at the Animal Research
Laboratory. Nevertheless, the
numbers are not sufficient, and
there is a great need for more
students.
'T’HE University Farm at
Moggill, with a total area
of 693 acres, is about 10 miles
from Brisbane G.P.0., and
has some two miles of river-
frontage. It was donated to the
University by Dr. Maine in
1923. For many years very
little development occurred on
the Farm, but from 1950 on-
wards the Veterinary School’s
Department of Animal Hus-
bandry began to develop 120
acres for training students.
Intensive research on the gene-
tics of poultry and supplemen-
tation of silage for the drought-
feeding of sheep have been
carried out on this section of
the Farm.
In 1956 we made notable
progress in developing 420
acres of the University Farm
which was previously un-
developed. This area has been
fenced, subdivided into three
paddocks, and considerable
areas of green-panic and other
grasses established. We will
soon be in a position to
buy cattle, and these will be
employed to carry out an ex-
periment on tick-infestation, at
the request of the C.5.1.R.0.
Cattle Tick Research Review
Committee.
The Queensland Dairymen’s
Organisation and Australian
Dairy Produce Board have
donated £3OOO for the building
of experimental cattle-pens.
These pens will be used for the
study of ticks and tick-borne
diseases by Professor Sprent
and his colleagues, and also
for work on vibriosis, and
leptospirosis of cattle and pigs.
r FHE Cattle Committee of the
A United Graziers’ Associa-
tion have agreed to contribute
(Dean, Faculty of Veterinary
Science, University of Queensland)
£lOOO towards a specific project
at the Veterinary School Farm.
We hope that the money will
be used to establish a special
isolation-paddock for use in
association with the above
projects.
During the past five years
Professor Ewer has gone a long
way in developing a section of
the Farm specifically for studies
in Animal Husbandry, so it
will be seen that we have laid
the foundations which we hope
will eventually provide the
practical facilities for studying
all aspects of Veterinary
Science.
Late in 1955 the Veterinary
School acquired a station-
wagon, equipped for carrying
out veterinary work during
long-distance trips in the
country. During 1956, 39 pro-
perties were visited and 9876
animals were handled. It is
considered that these trips con-
front the students with the dual
problems of animal-manage-
ment and disease-control and
familiarise them with the pro-
blems of pastoral Australia. It
is hoped that they will be
vigorously expanded, as they
represent a most valuable addi-
tion to the student’s experience,
and do much to make graziers
understand the services that
can be rendered by the veterin-
ary profession.


IT .. *•- n. A U K li
t|||
a
IT^\
SERVIC
QUEENSLAND
¥l3
TO
ALICfi
AUSTRALIA
WESTERN
X
the
WALES
NEW
SOOTH
SCTORIA
it—-
m:
li
*«c
fIOSHm
?_» • P P I N G
\\
FROM BRISBANE TO PERTH .... FROM ADELAIDE TO SYDNEY FROM
MELBOURNE TO ALICE SPRINGS .... Wherever you are, whatever you need ....
LET
SERVE YOU.
170 Branches offer an ALL-STATE-SERVICE
ELDER. SMITH & CO..
Adelaide, Perth, Melbourne, iGee/ong f Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, London
with which are amalgamated
COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE CO.. L T D.... Sydney
NENCO LIM IT ED.... Newcastle © MOREHEAD LIM I T E D.... Brisbane


The
Willandra Stud Flock
Property of Freehold & Leasehold Lands Pty. Ltd.
The Stud flock was founded some 40 years ago on pure
Wanganella blood.
I he Willandra sheep are bred in a Din. rainfall and are entirely
grass fed. The Western plains of New South Wales where
"Willandra” is situated is renowned for the large framed sheep which
it produces. The Breeders have aimed to produce a large, plain
bodied type of ram, carrying a good front, having a covering of
60-64’s type wool and a good open horn sheep.
Flock Rams bred in this Stud produce sheep of the highest
commercial value.
Drafts of rams are sent annually to “Mitchell Downs” Station.
Mitchell, Queensland, which is used as a depot for distribution to
large numbers of the Company’s clients, and full particulars of all
grades of rams on hand there can be obtained from the Manager of
“Mitchell Downs,” Mitchell, Telephone No. 2 Mitchell.
New South Wales clients are served from “Willandra,” and tele-
graphic communication is to “Willandra,” Hillston 9.
Freehold & Leasehold
Lands Pty. Ltd.
4 BRIDGE STREET SYDNEY
City Man with a Dash of the Bush
The Woolbuyer
By BRIAN WALSH
THERE is probably no
commodity in the world
so consistently ex-
ported, and in such
vast quantities, as is wool
from Australia. For nine
months of the year it is sold
and shipped in massive
amounts and with concentrated
feverishness. From the thickly
packed flocks that bleat and
huddle, thdn move in a flurry
of dust on the wide plains of
Australia—from the world-
record 140-million of them—
comes the creamy yellow stuff,
the cleanish, distinctive-smell-
ing, soft and greasy-to-the-
touch stuff—from shearing-
shed to railway-siding, to the
big selling-stores it comes, drab
in its brown jute bale . . . the
natural fibre that man with all
his science has not been able to
manufacture or find a substitute
for . . . the raw. material of
infinite use and variety—the
übiquitous substance called
wool ; 65,000 bales this Sydney
sale—Brisbane’s putting up
75,000—there’s 55,000 to be
offered at Melbourne . . .
from the beginning of Septem-
ber to the end of June, there’s
the insistent rap of the
auctioneer’s hammer: “Now,
gentlemen, Lot 1, ninety-six
pence . . a burst of shouting
that quickly dies, a rap of the
hammer—“ Ninety-eight pence
—Hill, Lot 2....” The
storage-sheds are full, down
by the wharves the ships are
waiting—the sales are on!
There are many trades, many
skilled and unskilled, in such
a huge industry. Farmer and
scientist, shearer, jackeroo,
rouseabout, woolcl'asser, clerk,
storeman, woolvaluer, wool-
buyer—the list is much more
extensive. But in the top line
of importance is the man, the
city man with a dash of the
bush in him, who operates in
the big stores of the wool-
selling brokers, who walks
along the lines of opened bales,
inspecting and valuing,
probing and deciding, the man
with the sensitive hands and
the trained eye, the experienced
memory, who thinks, talks and
lives wool—the woolbuyer.
TN Australia wool is sold by
auction, and the set-up is
this, After shearing, the “clip”
is classed (graded) evenly into
heaps of the same kind of wool.
These heaps may be AAA
fleece, lox, bellies, A pieces, or
any of the other different
descriptions in common and
accepted use by graziers, and
are simple and obvious classi-
fications. Each classification
is ba'ed separately, and for-
warded to the woolselling
broker’s store, where perhaps
it might go to a finer classifi-
cation, depending on the stand-
ard of classing. For catalogu-
ing purposes any lines that run
to five or more bales are called
“large” lots —those that can
muster only one, two, three or
four bales are called “star”
lots.
From the “large” lots repre-
sentative bales are drawn,
placed on a floor and are
called “show” bales. In an-
other store the “star” bales are
shown in their entirety. Each
bale has a placard showing its
lot-number. The cap of the
bale is removed, the wool spills
over, and everything is in readi-
ness for the woolbuyer.
The woolselling broker has
had an afternoon allocated to
him for selling, the catalogue
has been printed and presented
to the buyer the previous day,
and on the morning of the sale
BRIAN WALSH
the immense stores are filled
with woolbuyers.
Now all over the world there
are men in varying lines of
business who are interested in
the purchase of this wool now
being displayed. He may be
an English suiting-manufac-
turer in Bradford, an Italian
or French fabric-maker, or a
Japanese miil-man, or an inter-
national dealer. Somewhere in
that big store is his represen-
tative who has received a
cable that morning specifying
type, price and number of
bales he wishes to buy.
This then is the woolbuyer’s
job. He has to select out of
the thousands of bales to be
sold that day—and 15 to 20
thousand is a normal offering
—the quantity and type, and
then see if he can buy that
afternoon at auction at the
price suitable to his clients.
In distinction to other mer-
chandise that is bought—where
the grade and quality are
plainly labelled by the manu-
facturer —the woolbuyer has
no such guide. The station
classifications of AAA fleece,
etc., are of very minor interest
and no use at all. There are a
staggering number of wool-
types —an official list compiled
during the last war totalled
about 1700 —and, as well, most
firms have their own private
types.
Wool varies in color,
“crimp” (crinkle), length of
staple and the degree of
vegetable-matter (burr, seed).
Some discolorations cannot be
removed and are only of use
in dyed-material manufacture ;
staple-length to a large extent
determines spinning- and
weaving-quality ; certain vege-
table-matter can only be
removed by special treatment;
whilst “crimp” governs its
elasticity and indicates its
fineness. There’s a lot to learn
about wool. But there remains
o Continued on page 52)


r /
gZamklL
mm
', ' yS- £jz'
r - ' v :$< ' - zj?"?sc , " ,w "
;f**? -«».# -
, .^9BDH
'—
£ ' ,
♦-- . w- y
■
'• '•'"' ♦ <• • ■ <•"• <-»t
WILHELMSEN LINES
Regular service to the Middle East, the Continent
and Scandinavia.
Refrigerated as well as general cargo space avail-
able. Limited first-class passenger accommodation
available in double- or single-deck cabins.
AMERICAN PIONEER LINE
Rapid service of modern refrigerated Cargo
Vessels from Australia to U.S. and Canadian
Atlantic Coast Ports, and Trinidad via Panama
Canal. Vessels carry a limited number of:
passengers in saloon accommodation.
AUSTRALIA-WEST PACIFIC LINE
Serving Manila, Hong Kong and main Japanese
ports —returning via New Guinea and Island
Ports. Regular sailings by Milos, Delos, Aros
and Citos with general and refrigerated space
available; also special mechanical ventilation for
Fruit, Vegetables, etc., in ’tween decks.
Luxurious passenger accommodation in single- or;
two-berth cabins.
g
mmm
SCANDINAVIAN AIRLINES SYSTEM
ON THE NEW POLAR SHORT-CUT ROUTE TO EUROPE
* Tokyo to Copenhagen via Anchorage, Alaska,
* Two Flights each way every week.
* Mighty DC-7C “Global Express” Airliners, the newest and finest Douglas Aircraft
in the world today!
* “Royal Viking” First Class and “Globe-trotter” Tourist with new staggered “Comfort
Line” seating, exclusive to SAS.
* SAS—first over Pole from Los Angeles to Copenhagen, now first again with this
new POLAR SHORT-CUT —which saves approximately 20 hours and some 2301)
miles against the Southern Middle East Route.
£CA/V£)f/VAVMA/AffllfWfi WSllffl
“"b
For full details concerning the above contact your local agent or
WILH WILHELMSEN AGENCY Pty. Ltd.,
51 William Street., Melbourne—Mß 3536
66 Pitt Street, Sy d n ey BU 6301


“J
WILL OFFER
180 MERINOS • 7 CORRIEDALES • 29 CHEVIOTS
8 CORSET HORNS • 8 BORDER LEICESTER • 9 SOUTHDOWNS
GOOD SELECTED RAMS AND PENS
AT THE SYDNEY RAM SALES
STUD STOCK EXPERTS
H. A. GIBSON and A. E. GOODE
will be on hand for
PERSONAL ATTENTION
to enquiries regarding Sale or Show presentation,
buying or selling of
STUD STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OR OVERSEAS
For ike Service of Experts consult
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE LAND & FINANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in England, 1863)
4 SLIGH STREET SYDNEY & BRANCHES
8W8931 TELEGRAMS: AMLANDFCOY
Branches and representatives throughout N.S W. VICTORIA,
QUEENSLAND and in SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Overseas Offices, LONDON and BUENOS AIRES
another item to be master-id.
That is yield.
Yield is the percentage of
actual clean, scoured wool in a
lot. Grease, “fault” (vegetable-
matter), dust—these are sone
of the things that can make up
to half, sometimes more, of the
weight of raw wool that comes
off the sheep's back. The buyer
is only interested in the actual
quantity of wool in the lot —
referred to as “clean weight.”
A good Merino-w 00l will
yield up to as much as 70 per
cent., and a crossbred up to 80
per cent., while there are some
poor lots which carry a lot of
“fault” and will only “go”
around the 30 per cent, mark—
but the average is around 50
per cent. A good buyer must
value to within 1 per cent. —this
is a fairly common margin
allowed by overseas firms to
their representatives. Practice
differs, however, with
individual organisations.
Almost as common is a sale on
a guaranteed-yield basis —that
is. there must be compensation
for even a slight deviation front
the “estimated yield.”
VJTOST buyers have orders
ranging over a wide list of
types. They must value as
many lots as they can, even if
they know that their “limits”
(prices) are below market-level.
A buyer will pause in front of
a lot, his eye taking in its color
and texture. Already he is
classifying drawing on his
experienced memory. He
plucks out a staple of fibres,
twangs it — testing its strength
noting the length of the
staple. By now he’s got its
type and quality,
Picking-up a mass of it in
both hands, he lets it fall, does
the same with another part of
the bale, and then, if he is still
in doubt, again. He’s judging
its weight, and he's probably
thinking, “It feels heavy . . . it’s
much too heavy ... a lot of
dust —give it fifty-one? Try
it again—you’ve been a bit on
the light side this morning . . .
you were on an average of four
per cent, out when a few com-
pared notes on that nice lot of
1618 .. . it’s bouncy—feel it
again . . . it’s not a bad lot—■
make it fifty-four per cent.”
That’s woolbuying. It's all
experience, skill, judgment,
and no little nerve. There is no
room for the indecisive. On
those things all woolbuyers
stand on common ground—but
in techniques of operation they
differ greatly. Some are fast
and definite, finding that they
value best that way, and that
second-thoughts cause them to
err. They rely entirely on their
first instant impression. Others
are deliberate, taking possibly
up to one or two minutes
before deciding. The certainty
and precision of the speedy
valuer must be admired. On his
quick analysis a parcel of wool
that might be worth between
£5OO and £lOOO (and it could
easily be more) is bought.
To some this skill comes
easily, others find it painfully
slow—but for all there will be
years of experience before they
will be classed as competent.
There are a varied number
of paths that lead to a wool-
buyer’s job. There are the
thorough ones, doing the Tech-
nical course, a spell at a
shearing-shed, helping to class
the clip. They can even follow
that up with work in a mill,
watching the final proceedings.
A number become juniors on
leaving school. They “pencil”
(accompany a senior buyer
through the stores, jotting down
his valuations in the catalogue)
for six months of the year, and
are then sent to value the “star”
lots. AH deDends on the
youngster’s ability.
Others graduate from the
ranks of samplers (the morning
after the sale, every lot that has
been bought by the firm is
sampled, and a few pounds
brought back for the buyer to
confirm his valuations. A
samplers job is a hard, slogging
one). Some of the best wool-
buyers are ex-samplers.
Whatever bath is used, it wifi
be long and hard, and will take
years to reach the end, or what
is as good as the end, because
there is always a bit more to
learn in woolbuying. A uni-
versity can confer its degrees
on a graduate, giving him full


LYSAGHT SHEEP
SEIF FEEDER...
Hf
' >.•:. ..
m
m
wm
m
; >y :•
*ww&
: : :
*V
*?
mmm
ii
'•
—•V*
&«»*■
m
m
** <*’
\., ' j
Sliding Hinged Roof for ease in filling.
50 BUSHELS CAPACITY.
Rigid construction with Heavy Gauge
Sheets.
Adjustable Hooks vary opening for
different grades of feed.
Swinging Trough prevents blockage.
Sloping Sides prevent build-up of feed
in Troughs.
Head Barrier prevents strangling.
Sturdy Skid Base and Lugs for Towing.
Overall Trough length, 16ft. (Bft. each side).
PRICE: (Assembled or Prefabricated) (At Works)
Write for further information and agents' names to
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LTD., NEWCASTLE
or JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD., in all capital cities
facility to practise after
courses that can last up to seven
years.
But a woolbuyer is by no
means qualified after seven
years. At that stage he is
probably still only valuing the
“star” lots, and getting
occasionally sharply rapped
over the knuckles when a
sample of one of his lots comes
up on the table the following
day. “What did you value this
as?” “1478.” “Nowhere near
it—not even B fault —I’d make
it a 161 C. No order we can
put it into, either. Did you
value it or just give it a glance
as you passed? Resell it.”
But after about 10 years he is
just about reaching maturity.
He knows his strengths and
weaknesses. After 15 or 20
years he can regard himself as
fully experienced and fit for a
senior position in any firm.
After 30 years he should be at
the top. None of these periods
is arbitrary. Some develop
very rapidly, and after five or
seven years know that they can
specialise in certain types, see
an opportunity, and branch
out on their own. But these
cases are fairly rare.
'T'HE woolselling programme
is a heavy one and
demands a lot of travel. The
New South Wales buyer has to
attend Sydney, Newcastle, Bris-
bane, and, sometimes,
Goulburn sales. The Vic-
torian operator, Melbourne,
Albury, Geelong and Adelaide.
Occasionally, a Sydney buyer
will have orders for a certain
type of wool that can only be
obtained, say, in Adelaide. On
an average, a buyer spends
nearly two weeks in every four
away from home. He walks
miles through hot wool-stores.
His day is usually about a 12-
hour one.
But most of them would
regard themselves as well com-
pensated, both by the satisfac-
tion they get out of their work
and the financial reward. Any
calling based on an expression
of skilled and experienced
opinion is a satisfactory one—
and woolbuying is all that.
Most men have in some way a
hunger for the bush, and the
smell and feel of wool, even the
names of the stations branded
on the bales —all these in some
way identify them with it.
The compensation financially
is usually more than satisfac-
tory. A young, trusted star-
lot buyer gets quite a good
salary. When he becomes a
senior, not only is this in-
creased, but he shares in the
profits of the firm. This is
where accurate valuing pays-
off. When the bales are opened
overseas, they are checked for
correctness of type. Then they
are treated to get rid of all
unnecessary matter the
grease, dust, burr, etc.
If the resultant product of
actual wool does not measure-
up to what the woolbuyer
estimated months before when
he picked it up in his hands as
a greasy, burry mass, then he
is up for a claim. A 1 per cent,
or 2 per cent, “underyield,” as
it is called, can mean a loss of
thousands of pounds.
In this machine, and in-
creasingly scientific, age the
woolbuyer knows that his pro-
fession cannot be touched. It
is something that is uniquely
fo) hands, and eye, and brain
alone. His future is secure,
More uses are being found for
wool, it has withstood the syn-
thetic challenge, its qualities
are acknowledged as unrivalled,
The sheep-population is in-
creasing—it is now easily a
world’s record. The horizon
is immense.


EASTERN
SECTION
ALL
PARASITES
WESTERN
SECTION
ALL
PARASITES
WINTER = RAINFALL REGIONS
'
V
y
D }
D 1
D
'
Y
■
D
11l
11
- '* .!
■
mm
m
. *: -r
SEP
OCT
NOV
DEC
JAN
FEB
MAR
APR
MAY
JUN
JUL
AUG
SPRING
SUMMER
AUTUMN
WINTER
A Practical Programme
Phenothiazine and Phenology
By HUGH McL. GORDON
IT is a curious coincidence
that one of the most
remarkable anthelmintic
compounds, the wide-
spectrum worm-killer pheno-
thiazine, and the ancient
science of phenology, the study
of the times of recurring
natural phenomena especially
in relation to climatic condi-
tions, should begin with the
same five letters of the
alphabet.
Their relationship is* even
closer than their names suggest
when one thinks in terms of
the application of phenothia-
zine in the control of worm-
parasites of sheep. The expres-
sion “Worms work by the
weather” has often been used
to stress the relationship
between changes in the worm-
burden of sheep and climatic
conditions, especially in
attempting to set down a fairly
precise programme for drench-
ing and other control measures.
~7 ~ ~ „
Weather conditions affect
the worm-population in many
ways ; directly when eggs and
larvae develop, survive or are
killed; and indirectly when
climate determines the time of
lambing and the nutritional
state of the pastures,
i n general terms, climate
does not vary very greatly
f rom year to year, and the
seasonal march of temperature,
together with the seasonal
occurrence of rainfall, are
commonly used as signposts
0 n the highway of husbandry,
and to a large extent regulate
many of the seasonal activi-
ties in the pastoral and agri-
cultural industries,
Qn the other hand, weather
—the day-to-day variations in
temperature, rainfall and sun-
shine—is very changeable and
j§ seldom precisely predict-
able.
Thus in the application of
phenology the relating of
changes in natural phenomena,
such as the changing worm-
burden of sheep, to changes
in weather and climate—the
stockowner needs some
g uidin 8 principles which he
can apply to control measures.
Qne of y the more impo rtant
steps is to reduce the worm-
burden, and hence the
contamination of pastures
with worm-eggs, at critical
periods related to seasonal
conditions and certain signifi-
cant stages in animal-manage-
ment.
Phenothiazine, almost alone
among the anthelmintics,
enables a great reduction in
worm-burden, if it is applied
preventively. The timing of
its preventive use depends a
great deal on phenological
observations.
Some Principles
It is necessary to look at
some of the established facts
about worm-infestation before
going on to discuss the appli-
cation of control measures.
The basic principle is that
every sheep is infested and
contamination of the pastures
is continuous. There are two
chief reasons why outbreaks
are not seen more often.
Firstly, the worm-eggs and
larvae on pastures are quickly
destroyed by sunlight, heat and
desiccation. Secondly, sheep
develop resistance to worm-
infestation.
Thus, for their development
and survival, the worm-eggs and
larvae must have moisture
and shelter. Rain is essential,
and cloudy days provide
shelter against the direct and
the drying action of the sun.
The minimum period required
for the egg to develop through
to the infective larval stage is
four days, but under natural
conditions a period of about
seven days is more usual.
It is necessary to have a good
fall of rain to saturate the
ground, followed by two or
more dull, cloudy days, before
a fresh infestation of the sheep
is likely. In the sheep the
larvae grow quickly, and most
species are mature and laying
eggs within three weeks. If
the worms are killed by
drenching before they have
matured further contamination
of pastures is prevented.
Thus rainfall is one of the
signs which indicate when to
use phenothiazine.
The season of lambing pro-
vides another principle. Lamb-
ing in Australia is generally
either in the spring or autumn
—times of the year when
temperatures are moderate and
good falls of rain are likely ;
accordingly, increased acquisi-
tion of worm-larvae from
pastures is also likely. The
(<Continued on page 56)


1
rx\
%
m
m
as
«
w.
m\)\\
m
Probably you've
never shaken
this hand
... but you should!
It’s the hand of a man who does more to boost your
wool cheque than almost anyone else you can mention.
He's a man who has spent his life in the wool game,
developing skill and judgment to ensure that your
wool sells at its true value.
He is one of the reasons that you will find your
neighbour recommends the Jimac Wool P 001... he is
one of a team of true "professionals" who put that
little extra into their jobs so that wool prepared for
our clients brings the maximum return when sold
through a broker.
>
'
*
WOOL POOL
BRIDGLAND BROWN PTY. LTD.
174-190 DOWLING ST., EAST SYDNEY, and HANNEL ST., WICKHAM. NEWCASTLE


BARBERS*
POLE WORM
BLACK=SCOUR
WORM
NODULE
WORM
SUMMER = RAINFALL REGIONS
r
\
s f
m
1§
V
< !
...
/ h
Y
D
D
■ :
■
r
m
m
M
111®
A.
■M
'S' <«, '
*
•iv / y
m
-. ■-
- .
mif
& ■* ■>. •
i; .• .«><• —*•
-
k
mm
M
.;a<
SEP OCT NOV
DEC JAN FEB
MAR APR MAY
JUN JUL AUG
SPRING
SUMMER
AUTUMN
WINTER
larvae develop from eggs
deposited by the ewes.
Here, then, is an indication
for the preventive drenching
of ewes before lambing, in
order to reduce the contamina-
tion of pastures which will
soon be grazed by the highly
susceptible lambs.
It should be noted that the
contamination-rate may be
heavy, although the ewe may
be so lightly infested that she
is not suffering any adverse
effects. A single female
barber’s-pole worm may lay
10,000 eggs every 24 hours. If
all of these eggs developed to
infective larvae and were swal-
lowed the resulting infestations
would be sufficient to kill five
lambs.
The time of lambing deter-
mines to a large extent the
time of weaning, but in
general spring - lambs are
weaned in late summer or
early autumn, and autumn-
lambs are weaned in the spring.
In both cases the Weaners are
turned-out to fend for them-
selves at periods xvhen seasonal
conditions are often favorable
for worm-infestation.
Further, the weaner has
rather special food require-
ments and is expected to grow
quickly and produce a good
fleece. Anything which retards
growth and development is
economically important. Mal-
nutrition is the commonest
cause of unthriftiness, worm-
infestation is probably the next
most important cause. Often
these two conditions occur
together. It is still not generally
realised that one of the earliest
effects of worm-infestation is
loss of appetite.
Here again there is an indi-
cation for preventive drench-
ing, dictated partly by animal-
husbandry, partly by the
phenological observation that
spring and autumn are favor-
able seasons for worm-
infestation.
Prevention
Control of worm-infestation
in sheep is an application of
preventive veterinary-medicine.
It is a planned pessimism, a
preparation for something
which is certain to happen if
nothing is done. Or one may
think of it as a form of
insurance. If the premiums
are not paid regularly the
policy (protection) lapses.
In order to prevent, one
must have foreknowledge.
Herbert Spencer, in his First
Principles, says that “All
science is prevision ; and all
prevision ultimately helps us in
greater or less degree to achieve
the good and avoid the bad.”
What kind of foreknowledge
or prevision do we need to
forestall increases in the worm-
burden of sheep? How can
we predict, with reasonable
certainty, what is likely to
happen to the worm-popula-
tion?
During the past 20 years a
great deal of information has
been collected in Australia by
means of field-trials. There
are still many gaps in our
knowledge, especially about
the changes in the relationships
between the sheep and its
parasites which occur as man
changes the environment by
improving pastures, increasing
stocking-rates and demanding
greater and more rapid growth
of young stock. However,
there is sufficient information
to set down fairly specific
times for preventive drenching.
Programme
A programme of preventive
drenching must be rigid, yet
flexible. It must cater for the
regularity of the seasonal
changes of the “average” year,
as well as the irregularities of
the unusual year. Results of
field-trials have enabled us to
fix times for seasonal or
strategic drenching as shown
in the accompanying diagrams.
In Australia there are three
chief regions of high rainfall.
The summer-rainfall regions,
where most of the rain falls
from spring to autumn,
includes Queensland and north
and north-west N.S.W.
The winter-raintall regions,
where most of the rain falls
from autumn to spring,
includes southern N.S.W., Vic-
toria, Tasmania, South Aus-
tralia and the south-western
section of Western Australia.
The third region is one of
non-seasonal rainfall and is
located on the central table-
lands, slopes and plains of
N.S.W. In this region little is
known of the seasonal changes
in worm-burdens of sheep, so
it is not yet possible to set
down specific times for strategic
drenching.
In the diagram the seasonal
changes in the numbers of the
three more important parasites
of sheep in the summer-rainfall
regions, barber’s-pole worm
(Hcemonchus contortus), black-
scour worm ( Trichostrongylus
spp.) and nodule - worm
((Esophagostomum coin in -
biamfm), are shown separately
( Continued on page 58)


(M| R N off m amt
ALL THESE MAJOR FEATURES
B.H.P. quality steel
pfOWto functional design
j/ppOVOIt easy assembly
economy and durability
Yes . . . every R & N prefabricated building is made from solid B.H.P. Rolled Steel sections (not pressed metal or pipe) . . . and
long experience allows R & N designers to give the exact type of building you want where you want it . . . They are as easy
to assemble as a meccano set, and skilled labour is not required, but if you so desire, you can avail yourself of R & N skilled
Erection Teams.
EVERY R & N BUILDING IS A RECOMMENDATION FOR ANOTHER R & N BUILDING
R & N MACHINERY SHEDS . . .
V*!*,
are available in spans ox 20. 25. 30. 35, 40 or 60
ox
feet. Bays in combination of 10 to 20 feet. Heights
feet to 15 feet; lengths Indefinite,
©pen or closed as required.
Sides and ends
N GARAGE
. . either single or double, can be supplied complete with Iron
coverings on steel framework only. The strongest and moat
economical Garages you cun buy.
St
\
R & N SHEARING SHEDS .
. . . are designed
In accordance with
modern practice . . .
hare ample sheep-holding
capacity. an d are available
in 2. 3, 4. 5 and fl stands from standard design.
R & N HAY SHEDS . . .
m
A
A
. . . give clear height to apex for easy slacking. Exceptionally
strong Steel Boot and Bide Braces ensure a completely rigid and
permanent Hay Barn.
If there is no standard R & N pre-fabricafed
building to suit your needs one can be quickly
designed and fabricated for your individual
requirements ...
Our Representative will call and provide
quotations without obligation.
All material is delivered on the site or your
nearest railhead.
Order through your wool house, your local agent or direct from . . .
D
R & N BUILDING TRADING
COMPANY PROPRIETARY LIMITED
580 Hunter Street,
Newcastle. Box 66
Newcastle West.
Phone:
B 3417—8 3477
For best designs .. . best material .. . best price ... R& N,


Treat footrot
or inspect sheep
times faster,
times more efficiently
with
«
1
■ ' 3
rnmm
'mm
mm
m as?
TOOL
ADJUSTABLE
HEAVY DUTY
FLAX CRADLE
BAG
PORTABLE
SHEEP CRADLE
One man can treat more
than 100 sheep a day —
without backache with
THfa-sheep!
• Treatment is more thorough—
the sheep cannot struggle.
• Use the Tilta-sheep in pad-
docks, races, pens or shearing-
sheds.
® Fully portable—easy to carry
in the boot of a car.
• Scientifically balanced—light-
weight and sturdy.
• Wool keeps clean.
• Cuts out backache, operator
stands at a comfortable height,
in a normal position.
© Saves time, saves labour with
large or small flocks.
© Cradle adjustable in a few
seconds to any size of sheep.
£24/15/0
-
F.O.R.
SYDNEY
The Tilta-Sheep Mobile Sheep
Cradle is made from strong, long-
lasting steel, rubber-tyred for easy
transportation.
*
See Demonstration of THE TILTA-
SHEEP at the SHEEP SHOW, Sydney.
For further details and free illustrated
leaflet write, call or phone
DUNN BROS.
(Engineers) Pty. Ltd,
[-5 Antoine St., Ryd'almere, N.S.W. Phone: YW 1101, YW 1220.
Country Agents required.
because they behave differently,
In the winter-rainfall regions
the three more important para-
sites, black-scour worm, small,
brown stomach-worm ( Oster -
tagia spp.) and large-mouthed
bowel-worm (Chabertia ovind)
tend to behave similarly, and
so the seasonal changes are
shown together in the diagrams,
The parasites tend to behave
somewhat differently in Wes-
tern Australia and South Aus-
tralia compared with southern
N.S.W., Victoria and Tas-
mania, and so the changes in
the eastern and western sections
of the winter-rainfall region
are shown separately,
In the diagrams the shaded
areas indicate the rising and
falling of the worm-burdens
in the sheep. The darker
shading indicates periods when
new infestations are acquired,
the lighter shading periods
when worm-burdens usually
tend to'decline,
It must be understood that
the diagrams illustrate the
changes in worm-population
which take place in average
years, and that in unusual
years, like those experienced
during the recent wet seasons,
these changes may also be
unusual. Further, not every
sheep in the flock shows pre-
cisely the same changes. Thus,
in summer-rainfall regions it is
not unusual for some sheep to
carry infestations with barber’s-
pole worm into the winter.
The reason for the times
shown for drenching in the
diagrams is fairly obvious. In
general, the object is to reduce
the worm-burden at times pre-
ceding anticipated increases in
infestation. Thus the late-
August drench in the summer-
rainfall regions is directed at
preventing the spring rise of
barber’s-pole worm. At the
same time, it prevents q carry-
over of black-scour worm into
the spring, and it is the chief
attack on nodule-worm.
The nodule-worm has a life-
cycle which differs from that
of most of the other worm-
parasites of the digestive tract
of sheep. The eggs and larvae
develop only in warm, wet
weather, and infestations are
acquired from late spring to
early autumn. The larvae
burrow into the wall of the
bowel, and many do not
emerge for three or four
months, or even longer.
Thus the largest numbers of
adult worms are found from
the autumn onwards. Most of
the larvae have come out of the
nodules in the wall of the bowel
by the end of the winter, and
are then vulnerable to pheno-
thiazine. The drench late in
August destroys the adult
worms, and thereby prevents
contamination of pastures in
the spring.
The reasons for the times for
drenching shown in the
diagrams may be stated as
follows:
Summer-rainfall Regions
1. About mid-October
this is a second attack on the
spring rise of barber’s-pole
worm and supports the first
attack provided by the drench
late in August.
2. Late in January pre-
vents the late-summer rise of
barber’s-pole worm.
3. Mid May —prevents the
carry-over of barber’s-pole
worm into the winter ; it is an
early attack on black-scour
worm and on nodule-worm.
4. Late June this is a
second attack on nodule-worm
and black-scour worm.
5. Late August this is
probably the most important of
the year ; it forestalls the spring
rise of barber’s-pole worm ; it
removes nodule-worms before
they begin a new season’s cycle
of infestation ; it prevents a
carry-over of black-scour worm
into the spring.
Winter-rainfall Regions
A distinction is made be-
tween an eastern section which
includes southern N.S.W., Vic-
toria and Tasmania, and a
western section which includes
South Australia and south-
western districts of Western
Australia.
In the eastern section three


NOTHING EQUALS
Warmray's Amazing Efficiency
warm ray
TRIPLE-PURPOSE, SLOW-COMBUSTION,
AIR-CONDITIONING HOME HEATER
t;
v-S •
m
Model No. 3
Super De Luxe
JL- Large Capacity
Over 8,000
cu. ft.
Special large
firebox for long
burning without
attention.
Extra large
hotplate for.
cooking.
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray"
ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING
Model No. 2A
Jf Heats over 6,000
cu. ft.
Modern artistlo
cream porcelain
enamel on solid cast
iron.
•fc No dirty fireplaces
to clean.
X- Pull view of blazing
Are through open
or closed front.
JL- Lights in seconds
warms entire room
in minutes.
No smoke or dust to
soil furnishings.
★ Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
Your appreciate ~
S't!!e h wort* d^”uccS/
r: d o S SedWMHHFAT E R
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL—REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
m-mmzmmm mmm
WARMRAY
HEATING TUBES
The secret of Warmray’s Amazing Efficiency Is
the Patented Heating Tubes (Illustrated above),
which are built into the firebox. The air in the
room passes through these tubes continuously,
thus maintaining an even warmth in every part
of the room.
JL. BURNS ALL SOLID FUELS
WOOD IS CLEANEST.
Sold Jyy Stores, Builders’ Suppliers ana
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
BUT NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERT
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors,
Chaliis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: "Warmray.” BL 2217.
If unobtainable locally, phone, write or call
for illustrated Brochure and name of nearest,
agents.
regular drenches are suggested
—early in December, early in
February and early in May. In
the western section three
drenches are suggested
August - September, mid -
January and February-March.
~ It must be appreciated that
the drenches shown on the
diagrams are considered
essential for the control of
worm-infestation, and should
be carried out every year
irrespective of the kind of
season. They are strategic
drenches designed to forestall
increases in worm-burden and
to attack the parasite at' the
more vulnerable stages in its
seasonal cycle.
Regions of Non-seasonal
Rainfall
There is as yet no precise
infprmation on the regular
seasonal changes in worm-
infestation in these areas which
comprise a great wedge-shaped
region, extending to the north-
west, west and south-west of
the Blue Mountains in N.S.W.
In this region only general
suggestions can be given for
a seasonal programme of
drenching. A drench late, in
August will forestall a spring
rise of barber’s-pole worm, a
drench in the late summer will
forestall the autumn rise of
black-scour worm, and it is
probable that a drench about
October-November will be
useful in case summer rains
occur.
Other Regular Drenching
There are two further
regular drenches. They are
the treatment of ewes a month
before lambing and of lambs
at. weaning - time. These
drenches may fit into the pro-
gramme shown in the diagrams,
and, if necessary, the times in
the diagrams may be altered a
week or two in either direc-
tion. The late-August drench
in summer-rainfall regions is
an exception, and must not be
delayed into September. How-
ever, it can be given earlier in
August.
Tactical Drenching
These regular, strategic
drenches must be supple-
mented, when necessary, by
tactical drenching as soon as
conditions which favor the
parasites occur. There are
three chief indications for
tactical drenching:
1. Rainfall drench about
three weeks after a good fall
of rain which extends over two
or more days and thoroughly
soaks the ground.
2. Grazing Habits —drench if
sheep are seen to overcrowd
favored areas in a paddock,
such as fresh feed on front-
ages, or in damp gullies, or
after a burn. If sheep are to
graze sown-pastures or fodder-
crops at a high rate of stock-
ing, drench before they are
moved to the crop or pasture.
(N.B. Avoid drenches con-
taining carbon-tetrachloride if
sheep are to be run on fresh
pastures or crop, or drench at
least 10 days before the move.)
3. Malnutrition —if sheep
lose condition, or if pastures
deteriorate fairly suddenly
(e.g., fire, flood, grasshoppers,
rabbits) drench to remove
parasites which will do more
harm to the undernourished
animal. Even a moderate
infestation which may not be
serious in a sheep which is
well fed may be very serious
in a sheep which is suffering
malnutrition.
Liver-flake
This parasite is of great
importance in much of the
higher-rainfall regions. A
programme of drenching with
carbon - tetrachloride is
required, and for most districts
is best carried out in April,
June and before the end of
August. There is not space
here to discuss the reasons for
these times, or to describe the
methods which must be adopted
to control the snail which acts
as the intermediate host of the
liver-fluke. Drenching is but
half the attack on this parasite.
Which Drench?
Phenothiazine is still the best
all-round drench for sheep:
and the only reason for using
another drench is economy.
Phenothiazine does not kill
liver - fluke or tapeworms.
Carbon-tetrachloride is still the
recommended treatment against
liver-fluke. Hexachlorethane is
equally effective, but is more
expensive, and not necessarily
less dangerous.
The tapeworm, though it
seldom causes serious trouble
by itself, is sometimes of
importance in young lambs. A
large mass of tapeworms may
block the small intestine, and
the results of some work in
New Zealand suggest that a
heavy infestation may predis-
pose to entero-toxasmia. Tape-
worms can be removed by
drenching with arsenical com-
pounds, and it is probable that
insoluble compounds, such as
lead-arsenate, are more effec-
tive.
There is no space to discuss
the merits of the great variety
of drugs which are used as
drenches for sheep. For the
present, phenothiazine is best,
and if you want an alternative
ask your veterinary-officer.


ENJOY
Unlimited
FROM
*
THE COUNTRY PRODUCERS SELLING CO. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney BUSIOI
11 Watt Street, Newcastle 84160
WOOL • SHEEP • CATTLE • PRODUCE
STOCK L PROPERTY SALESMEN
THE PORT OF LIVERPOOL
r
r
g=
m
Wd
dm
mm
r
L.
m
m
|V
Herbert R. Young
Australian and New Zealand Representative
MERSEY DOCKS AND HARBOUR BOARD
19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SHIP VIA LIVERPOOL
Prompt despatch Rail, Road or Canal
Not Too Big, Not Too Fat
Lamb for
Export
By BILL RITCHIE
DURING the Sydney
Sheep Show early next
month, producers of
mutton and lamb will
be able to see a carcass-grading
demonstration that should be a
good deal more valuable to
them than previous demonstra-
tions of this type.
For some years now the
Australian Meat Board, in con-
junction with the other
organisations concerned, has
been staging grading-
demonstrations, because it
wants the men who raise the
sheep for the table to see for
themselves the type of carcass
that will be graded best and
will be most favorably received.
Producers have shown keen
interest in these demonstra-
tions, so this year it has been
decided by the board to expand
the whole programme, to give
producers a much better chance
of finding out just what they
want to know about grading
and the type of carcasses in
demand orj both the home and
overseas markets.
Although sponsored by the
board, this will be a truly co-
operative project, operated in
conjunction with the Division
of Animal Industry of N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture, the
Meat Inspection Branch of the
Department of Primary
Industry, and, of. course, the
Royal Agricultural Society
and the N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’
Association.
About 40 carcasses will be
selected by officers of the Meat
Inspection Branch of tne
Department of Prim a r y
Industry, and supplied by W.
Angliss and Co.
These will be specially chosen
as typical of tne various export-
grades, to give producers as
good a comparison as possible
between the various grades of
carcass, so that they can see
clearly why some carcasses are
graded-up and others graded-
down.
These carcasses will be dis-
played in refrigerated
glass-cases in the Meat Hall at
Sydney Showground on Tues-
day, Wednesday and Thursday,
June 4, 5 and 6, and the
demonstration will be opened
to the public from 10 a.m. to
4 p.m. each day, which will
give the public a much better
chance to see it than in former
years.
r T''HE Metropolitan Meat
-* Industries Board, which is
supplying facilities, will also
stage a display of by-products
of the meat-industry generally.
One feature of the
demonstration this year will be
a continuous advisory-service
given by trained officers of the
Meat Inspection Branch of the
Department of Primary
Industry, which is responsible
for export-grading, and from
the Division of Animal
Industry of the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture. These


BUILDINGS
/;/ EASY, STANDARDISED, INTERCHANGEABLE
STEEL BUILDING UNITS
Witty*
Mil
maud
l~ u ~H
cam
ulijj
s
■OO*. »TO»t
THE FAMOUS
STEEL-FRAIM
Ready-to-Erect
Shearing Sheds
This is only ona of a number of shearing shed
layout's a team of handy men can erect econ-
omically and rapidly using the well-known
STEEL-FRAIM Standardised building units.
Everything is made easy to fellow by painting
the various foundation, wall and roof memberi
distinctive colors—even the doors are complete
with locks and hinges ready for bolting.
If you want a larger shed, or a smaller shed, or
a different arrangement of pens, shearing board
and wool room, let us show you how simple il
Jo with STEEL-FRAIM
BOWAS CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.
Manufacturers of the famous Sidney Williams Steel-Fraim building 5
Williams Parade (Off Consfrmion Rd.), Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. LM5204, LM7886
In Qld.: 108 Colchester St., South Brisbane. J 4833
men will be present all the
time to answer questions on
the grading system, and Depart-
ment of Agriculture officers will
advise on production of quality
carcasses generally.
At 3 p.m. each afternoon,
these officers will give a grad-
ing demonstration, going
through the carcasses, and-
pointing-out the quality
features of those in the top
grades, as well as explaining
why other carcasses lost points
and had to be relegated to
lower grades. They will also
give short talks on both produc-
tion and grading of lamb and
mutton to meet current
marketing demands.
J. L. Shute, chairman of
Australian Meat Board, points
out that the extended scope of
this year's demonstration
should help to give producers a
much better idea of what we
are aiming at in trying to
supply the British market, our
main export-outlet, with the
type of carcass it prefers, as
well as the home-market, on
which so much of our meat is
sold.
The major drawbacks at
present in the carcasses sub-
mitted for export to Britain
are overfatness and over-
weight, both of _ which are
unpopular with the British
house wife, and therefore with
the British retail-trade, which
Australia is trying to woo into
being more inteiested in Aus-
tralian lamb and mutton.
If there’s one thing that is
becoming more evident every
day, its the fact that the
British housewife does not
want tOo much fat on her meat,
and is making it very plain to
her butcher. British butchers
say that only a very small per-
centage of customers will buy
fatty meat from choice. Other
customers will only buy it if
nothing else offers. The
preference of the housewife is
turning more and more to
smaller joints with very little
fat.
Even New Zealand is find-
ing the same trend in market-
ing her lamb. The London
office of the Australian
Meat Board has reported that
the carcasses in the recent New
Zealand” District Lamb Com-
petition, held in Britain,
although leaner than usual,
were still too fat for the retail-
trade of today.
Current demand is for
ordinary prime lambs that
carry the minimum of waste,
and a growing prejudice against
New Zealand Down-type lambs
over recent months is reported
from Britain, for the simple
reason that in general they are
arriving too prime and overfat.
This is a strong reminder to
Australian lamb-producers that
lamb-carcasses that are too fat
mean lower prices in Britain.
Reports from London
indicate that Down type
appears to be the quality to
aim at as far as conformation
goes, but it is important that
the lambs should be marketed
as soon as they are prime and
before they become wasteful,
which occurs generally when
they weigh over 361 b. dressed.
The British housewife is turn-
ing more and more to the small
lamb. Trade sources report
that she is getting away from
the idea of having a large joint
that is a hot roast on Sunday,
cold meat on Monday, rissoles
on Tuesday, and curry on
Wednesday. These days she
tends to prefer a roast-joint
that can be eaten at one sitting.
She is becoming more
discriminating, and prefers buy-
ing fresh cuts of meat rather
than trying to make the week-
end joint last for days.
'T'Ht.Sc, tiends are not really
surprising. The Australian
housewife has the same prefer-
ences, and the Australian
butcher reacts in the same way.
The meat-producing industry is
lucky, in one sense, because it
doesn’t have to cater for two
markets with differing tastes.
And it is another reason for
holding grading demonstrations
—growers benefit equally,
whether their stock are sold for
export or for the home-market.
But, on the other hand, this
('Continued on page 66)


MURRAWOMBIE
PURE KOONOONA (S.A.) BLOOD
Reg. No. 1044
—
.*• ,
■ %
■' ■ ’
* ••
■mam
&■{*&■ &
. - '
MURRAWOMBIE 9.35, a strong wool 2f-year-old Stud Ram. He is by Special
Stud Sire Kl 2, who sired 5.2 winner of the strong wool ram championship at
Sydney in 1947. >
Murrawombie rams carry bright, shafty fleeces, full of character, and possess an
inherent ability to “Breed on.”
YOUR CHOICE IS RIGHT WITH MURRAWOMBIE RAMS
MOXHAM BROS. MURRAWOMBIE
via Giritambcne, N.S.W.
Tor!
Songs of the 'Blades
By JOHN MEREDITH
FOUR years of travelling
about the N. S. Wales
countryside and the
Sydney suburbs with a
tape-recorder have enabled me
to meet and record dozens of
old folksingers, and their
favorite topic is always shearing
and the blade-shearers.
I was surprised to meet a
shearer still living who had
taken part in the shearing strike
of 1891. Now retired at Ryde,
Jack Luscombe was 76 when
I visited him four years ago.
He was “picking-up” in the
sheds at the age of 11, and
began shearing when in his
early ’teens. The first song I
recorded from Jack Luscombe’s
singing is a rhymed set of rules
for shearing a sheep:
You take off the belly-wool, clean-
out the crutch,
Go up the neck for the rules they
are such.
You clean round the horns, first
shoulder go down,
One blow up the back and you then
turn around.
Chorus:
Click, click, that’s how the shears
go,
Click, click, so awfully quick;
You pull out a sheep, he’ll give a
kick,
And still hear your shears going
click, click, click.
The tune used by Luscombe
sounds as though it had its
origin in Strauss’s “Trapeze
Waltz,” or “The Man on the
Flying Trapeze.” From this
singer, I also recorded one
verse of a ribald song called
“The Ryebuck Shearer.”
During the years that
followed I met several other
singers who had heard the
song, but in each case they
knew only one verse—the one
which I already had collected.
Toward the end of last year,
1 was sitting in the yard of the
Oriental hotel at Muugee,
listening to Ernie Sibley recite
some bush-ballads.
“Do you know this one?”
he asked, and went on to recite
several verses of “The Ryebuck
Shearer.” “There was a chorus,
too,” he added, after I had
finished taking it down, “but
I can’t just bring it to mind.”
Three middies later it still
hadn’t come to mind, so Ernie
mounted his pushbike and left.
He was back five minutes later,
beaming elatedly, and I added
the chorus to my collection:
I come from the South and my
name it’s Held,
And when my shears are properly
steeled,
A hundred and odd I have very
often peeled,
And oi coarse I’m a ryebuck
shearer.
Chorus :
H i don’t shear a tally before I go,
My shears and stone in the river
I’ll tnrow —
I’ll never open Sawbies to take
another blow
And prove I’m a ryebuck shearer.
TN his introduction to Old
Bush Songs, “Banjo” Pater-
son stated: “Only a few years
ago, every shearing-shed had at
least one minstrel who could
drone out the refrain of a shear-
ing song:—
“But, oh, boys, such sheep I never
shore,
As tnose that made us knuckle
down at Goorianawa.”
“But,” Paterson added, “the
Goorianawa sheep are not
celebrated in song nowadays,
and advertisement has failed
to produce a copy of the song.”
Fifty years later Douglas
Stewart and Nancy Kees.ng,
while searching for material
for their Australian Bush
Ballads, received a letter from
Croydon (“Duke”) Trition, in
the Mudgee district, who not
only knew all the words and the
tune of “Goorianawa,” but had
actually shorn in most of the
sheds described in the song.
Another six weeks went by
before I met 70-year-old
“Duke.” Then I sat spellbound
as this tall, straight, white-r
(Continued on page 64)


Cost
Additional
at
&ipftj
Sfi*~
jt'/'XWWWwk'-jW-TffjKW
c
0.0.0
. • • «-^.'.-.'x>>*{j
45 H.P.
DIESEL
£1595
CHAMPION Standard price includes
sensational QCTBA FEATURES
LIVE P.T.O. with Independent Clutch. Belt Drive Unit
Full Electrical Equipment, including Dashboard, Rear Light and two Head-
lights Hour Meter Front Bumper Bar... .Finger-tip Recirculating
Steering.... Heavy Duty Roller Drawbar with Vertical Hitching Heights.
...Spark Arrestor... .Foam Rubber Car-type Seating for three.... Foot
Accelerator in addition to Hand Throttle • Double Acting Hydraulics.
CHAMBERLAIN INDUSTRIES PTY. LTD.
QUEENSLAND: Dalgety & Co. Ltd.,
291-301 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
NEW SOUTH WALES:, Parramatta
Road and Ostend Street, Lidcombe.
'
VICTORIA: Princes High-
way, Springvale.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 207
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Welsh-
pool Road, Welshpool.
TASMANIA: Donald Gorringe
Pty. Ltd., 72 Argyle St., Hobart,
and 139 York St., Launceston.


no a
9 9JI 1
IH4
haired bushman with deep-set,
piercing blue eyes, took my
microphone and sang song
after song into the tape-
recorder. “Goorianawa”
begins:—
I’ve been many years a shearer and
fancied I could shear,
I’ve shore for Rouse of Guntawong
and always missed the spear.
I’ve shorn for Nicholas Bayley and
I declare to you,
That on his pure Merinos I could
always struggle through.
I’ve been shearing down the Bogan
as far as Dandaloo
For good old Reid of Tabratong
I’ve often cut a few.
Haddon Rig and Quambone, even
Wingadee,
Could close my shears at six-o’clock
with a quiet century.
But it’s oh, my, such a thing I never
saw before,
The way we had to knuckle down on
Goorianawa.
Only a week later I met Tom
Byrnes, who came from a small
township called Springside, in
the Orange district. Tom also
knew “Goorianawa,” but could
only remember one verse,
which he told me had been
written by his father. It con-
cerned an illiterate cocky, who
used to keep a tally of the
number of sheep shorn on a
notched stick:
I shore for old Jack Grenfield, he
lived at Oaky Creek,
And every time I shore a sheep, he
nicked it on a stick.
Oh, my, you never saw before,
The way we had to knuckle down at
Grenfield’s on the moor.
By the time we got down
to the job of recording it, the
last line had changed to:
The way we had to knuckle down at
Goorianawa.
Both the “Goorianawa”
tunes bear a resemblance to a
Scots tune called “The Ball of
Kirriemeer” or “Wee Willy
Winkie,” but Tom Byrnes’s
tune resembles the original
more closely.
I have been visiting Tom
Byrnes and his sister-in-law,
Mary Byrnes, periodically for
several years, and during that
time they have rememoered,
bit by bit, a shearers’ song that
gives a good picture of life in
the ihen’s hut after the day's
work is done. “The Hut That’s
Upsidedown” is one of the
“shearer’s dream” songs, a
popular theme in shed balladry
At time of writing, Tom and
Mary Byrnes had remembered
all but the first two lines of
the last verse:' —
Me name is Bobby Ambelet, to
Glasgow I belong,
t've just stepped in among you all
to sing to you a song,
I’ve travelled about the "counteree”
to places of renown,
But now I’m anchored hard and
fast in the hut that’s upsidedown.
Chorus:
The cook, he danced the highland
fling, oh Laddie plays the lute;
The little boy from Burra way, he
played upon the flute.
Scotty, he sings “The Mulberry
Tree” and “All Dull Care Is
Flown,”
We’re happy as larks out in the park
in the hut that’s upsidedown.
The shearing, it has now begun, the
machines are doing well,
The little shears they go “Click,
click,” and the wool rolls off
pell-mell,
The tramway runs around the board,
the boys are flying round,
And the cook is lashing the brownie
out in the hut that’s upsidedown.
The other night I went to read and
went to sleep quite sound,
I thought the hut was all “a-gee”
and I was on the ground.
When I awoke, to my surprise the
boys were standing round,
And the cook was lashing the
brownie out in the hut that’s
upsidedown.
At night we pass the hours away
with euchre, nap and bluff,
Many rhyme to kill their time while
others blow their stuff.
There was prime roast beef foT
dinner and the duff was served
around,
W e’re getting as fat as poisoned
pups in the hut that’s upsidedown.
Well, it’s now me boys I must away
—I hope no one will frown,
But give three cheers for Willie the
cook in the hut that’s upsidedown.
It will be noticed that one
verse, at least, of this song is
not about blade-shearing, but
refers to the early days of the
machines “The tramways”
seems to identify the shed as
Big Burrawang, where a tram-
way did, in fact, run down the
middle of the board.
T HAD not been collecting
-*■ folk-songs for very long
when I had the good fortune
to meet Mrs. Fred Sloane at
Lithgow. “Sally” Sloane has
proved to be the greatest single
source of folk-songs that I have
yet encountered. The bulk of
these were inherited, via her
mother, from her grandmother,


•f-4
#
v: -V-ri;
r '" '•' -
i
■smmm
- •;^:s
r-r
jf*3w
[it*.
-
■
r,
; •••• *
... a- -•
//._ a
r AUSTRALIAN WOOL
SHIPPED UNDER THE
BRAND
v>. v.;*'
OF WE WORLD
The SRAZCOS brand is well known and respected
throughout the world by all who buy and use wool.
It indicates wool prepared to suit trade requirements,
it has the confidence of buyers fulfilling orders for
overseas and local mills.
GRAZCOS
CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
CONSIGN WOOL TO GRAZCOS ,
SYDNEY OFFICE:
44 YOUNG STREET
Tal.: BU 1511
NEWCASTLE OFFICE:
CENTENARY ROAD
Tell.: BA 2834. BA 2744
BRISBANE OFFICE:
CNR. ADELAIDE AND
CREEK STREETS
T*l • FA 1761
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE OR BRISBANE
who migrated to Australia from
Ireland about the middle of the
19th century. Sally also knows
many English and Australian
songs, learned from bush-
singers in the Parkes district.
Her shearing songs consisted of
a hitherto unnoted verse of
“Click Go the Shears” and a
couple of verses for’ “The
Springtime Brings On the
Shearing”:
You’ve heard of those flash country
shearers,
The (lashest in all the town,
But there’s none is as Hash as the
shearer,
A shearer when shearing comes
round.
And now that the wool season’s
over,
And the shearing is now at an
end,
It’s now you will see those flash
shearers,
Cooking johnnie-cakes down in the
bend.
Last year, at Gulgong, I
was recording in the parlor at
Ted Gibbon’s Centennial hotel
when I was approached by an
old shearer by the name of‘Bill
Coughlin. Rather wheezy and
asthmatic to begin with, but
improving after a couple of
glasses of stout, Bill said that
he knew a song about shearing.
It was “The Union Boy,” and
Bill learned it at Cassilis
during the shearing-strike of
1902:
TTENRY LAWSON’S “The
Shearer’s Dream” is well
known as a spoken ballad, and
of course Lawson is generally
believed to have written it.
But in his Send Round the Hat,
there is a story called ‘«The
Shearer’s Dream,” in which a
swagman sings a song with the-
same name:
....Just then one of the
“travellers” v/ho were camped a bit
up the creek suddenly commenced to
sing. It was a song called “The
Shearer’s Dream”....He started his
verses and most of his lines with a
howl; and there were unexpected
howls all through the song, and it
wailed off, just as unexpectedly,
in places where there was no pathos
that I could see:
Oh, I dreamt 1 shore in a shearer’s
shed, and it was a dream of joy,
For every one of the rouseabouts
was a girl dressed up as a boy—
Dressed up like a page in a
pantomime, and the prettiest ever
seen—
They had flaxen hair, they had
coal-black hair—and every shade
between. . . .
There was short, plump girls, there
was tall, slim girls, and the
handsomest ever seen —
They was four-foot-five, they was
six-foot high, and hevery size
between....
It hardly seems likely that
Lawson would introduce one of
his own verses into a story in
this way, so “The Shearer’s
Dream” is proved a traditional
ballad which has been polished
up by Lawson for publication.
One of my old informants,
Charles Ayger, of Glebe, a
retired shearer who is now 80
years of age, learned the ballad
while he was still going to
school, to an air which he said
was called “The Saxon
Tongue.”
When first I arrived in Quirindi,
those girls they jumped wun joy,
Saying one unto the other, here
comes a union boy.
We’ll treat him to a bottle, and
likewise to a dram,
Our hearts we ll ianly give too, to
all staunch union men.
I had not long been in Quirindi.
not one week, two, or three,
When a handsome, pretty lair maid,,
she fell in love with me.
She introduced me to her mother
as a loyal union man,
Oh mother, dearest mother now.
he’s gently joined the gang.
Oh daughter, dearest daughter, oh
this never can be,
for four years ago-oh he scabbed
it at Forquadee.
Oh mother, dearest mother now,
the truth to you I’ll tell,
He’s since' then joined the union,
and the country knows it well.
Now Fred, you’ve joined the union,
so stick to it like glue,
For the scabs that were upon your
back, they’re now but only few.
And if ever you go blackleggin’ or
scabbing likewise,
It’s with my long, long fingernails,
I’ll scratch out both your eyes.
I’ll put you to every cruelty, I’ll
stretch you in a vice,
I’ll cut you up in a hay-machine
and sell you lor Chinee rice.
Come all you young and old men,
oh wherever you may be,
Oh, it’s hoist-oh the flag-oh, the
flag of unity.
Then scabbin’ in this country will
soon be at an end,
And I pray that one and all of you
will be staunch union men.


Reg. Flock No. 7
Reg. Flock No. 84
Reg. Flock No. 987
F. S. Falkiner & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
FAMOUS STUD FLOCKS
• BOONOKE
0 WANGANELLA ESTATE
• POLL BOONOKE
ONE-THIRD OF AUSTRALIA’S WOOL CLIP IS BRED TO THIS BLOOD
Boonoke and Wanganella Estate Studs comprise a foundation of 75% of the Merino
Stud Sheep bred by George Peppin and Sons. Boonoke acquired by present family
ownership 1878, Wanganella Estate, 1910. Poll Boonoke Stud was founded by Otway
R. Falkiner in 1933. It is pure Boonoke blood plus 23 years of Poll inheritance. Poll
Boonoke Stud No. 2 (Reg. Flock 2101), based on 500 Wanganella Estate two-tooth ewes
and “test-mated” Poll Boonoke sires, was formed in 1956.
:
; '•«
se ... .
i
THE POLL BOONOKE TYPE
These basic studs of the wool industry are represented at Sydney Ram Sales by sale
teams comprising 16 stud rams from Wanganella Estate (7-G.M. and 9-F. & G.); 3
special stud rams and 4 stud rams from Boonoke (N.Z. Loan), also 7 Boonoke stud
rams in Dalgety’s catalogue ; and 6 special stud rams and 1 stud ram from Poll
Boonoke Stud with N.Z. Loan, 2 special Poll Boonoke stud rams and 5 Poll Boonoke
stud rams in Dalgety’s catalogue, and 7 Poll Boonoke stud rams in A.M.L. & F.’s
catalogue.
FSF represents the Biggest Ram Selling Business on Earth.
All grades Stud and Flock Rams available ex depots (subject to sales).
Please order from the Sales Manager as early as possible.
F. S. FALSCINER & SONS PTY. LTD.
BOONOKE NORTH. WIDGIEWA. N.S.W.
Telegrams: Boonram, Urana, or Queensland Depot, Cleeve Station, Longreach.
Telephones: Urana 15, Longreach 53.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6'
similarity in taste makes it
difficult to- build up a flourish-
ing export-trade in lamb and
mutton. There is strong com-
petition for the right type of
carcass, and the natural tend-
ency is for the home-market to
get the pick of what is offering.
But if more of the quality
carcasses were produced, more
would be available, and the
average standard of exports
could be raised. It should
never be forgotten that,
although perhaps the main
market is within Australia, the
export-market is a vital factor,
and one that will become more
and more important as the
industry grows.
That is why the Australian
Meat Board is sponsoring such
demonstrations as these —to
help the producer turn off
better-quality stock and raise
the general standard. Unless
we can gain and hold an
increasing share of the world
markets, particularly that in
Britain, the economic expansion
of our meat industries must be
slow. And unless producers
know just what the market
wants, they are not in. the best
position to plan to cater for
it, and are penalised by lower
prices, both here and overseas,
and are lessening the chances of
an expanding export-trade on a
profitable basis.
Demonstrations such as these
are aimed at showing the pro-
ducer the way to make the
most of his markets.
FAT-LAMB MOTHERS
TTERE in New Zealand
1A revision of our ideas on the
ideal fat-lamb mother seems
overdue. The Romney ewe
has been very useful in the
past, but is not as prolific as
some other breeds, and the
wool covering the face is
another disadvantage ironi-
cally, a man-made one ; the old
Romney had an open face. The
modern Romney’s woolly face
has been shown to represent a
loss of up to 10s. a head.
The Romney Marsh, of
course, was evolved under
special conditions on the
swampy lands of Kent—and
this has made it particularly
suitable for a high-rainfall
country like New Zealand. It
is hardy, the mutton is of good
quality, somewhat resembling
that of the Down breeds,
although coarser in grain, and
it is large-framed.
But the search for an ideal
fat-lamb mother must go on —
here in New Zealand and, I
imagine, in Australia, ~ too.
Here, the Border Leicester-
Romney cross has been tried
as a mother of fat-lambs, and
the results have been very
satisfactory. I can see no
reason why, with careful selec-
tion, a breed cannot be fixed
that will produce a good, uni-
form type of fat-lamb mother:
something very close to the
Romney in wool-weight, equal,
maybe, in wool-quality, and
producing a much highei per-
centage of lambs. And, of
course, clean-faced.
The argument that there are
too many breeds already has
some force, admittedly. But,
all the same, I think New
Zealand breeders will sooner
or later have to face the job of
evolving a breed for their
particular purposes and
environment, as mothers of fat-
lambs (the sires, of course, will
be Down breeds).
MOSSIE.


WOOL PRESSES
WE CUN SUPPLY ALL YOUR NEEDS
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
m
it
SI
SC
ii
an
11
11
1#
m
THE
NEW AJAX
MODELB
By use of an ingenious framework the
New Model B does away with the hard
work of lifting the monkey in and out
of the press, thus making it easier and
faster.
In effect, the framework acts as a false
top box and allows a greater topping up
of the wool —so much less wool to tramp.
m
m
m
EVERYMAN’S WOOL PRESS
m
r
THE AJAX MAJOR
Two Box ALL STEEL Wooipress
Already acclaimed by many hundreds of Australian
graziers from two to twelve stand sheds. You will be
proud to show the good heavy square bales from this
press. (One man, 35 to 45 bales per day; two men,
65 to 70 or more.)
© Completely Portable on its own Two Wheels.
© New Patent Hoist for Effortless Lifting.
O Captive Monkey always in top box Eliminates
Lifting.
Q New Two Speed Action on Roller Bearings for
Faster and Easier Pressing.
AJAX
THE FIRST CHOICE
FOR YEARS OF MANY
THOUSANDS OF
AUSTRALIAN SHEEP
FARMERS
Ask Your WQOLHOUSE or MACHINERY MERCHANT
. AGENTS IN ALL STATES
Manufacturers and Patentees: DONALD PATENTS LTD., 390 GLENMORE RD., PADDINGTON, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


60% EVAPORATION CONTROL
IS NOW POSSIBLE WITH THE
m
gy
Mfthawmimv
' - ■ j
ass <*
MtMKmtmp
X,
&Afj£Z4jrr'
* -*<&r t ,
K -x
88
•'•- ';■
: fy
Pliiiiii
* , $ &o < § vWv
f ■'V—
mm
>*s*<<XvO
" w ■». J
' V N ' v
Pi
" :•':■•• ■ .
SEA*-
RP
SI
L..M.1T6?
9*13 “ M
WH.C°*
Wilcox Mofflin have pleasure in announcing their
appointment as Australian distributors for the Alcet
Anti-Evaporation Raft, the raft which tests have proven
can restrict evaporation by from 25% to 60%.
Simply place 2Jlbs. of Wilmo Si-110-
Seai (hexadeconal) in the Aicet Haft.
Next suitably position the raft or rafts
in the dam and anchor with the nylon
lines provided. A thin invisible film of
hexadeconal is then exuded over the
surface of the water, and so evapora-
tion is immediately restricted. It’s as
simple as that!
The raft need only be charged twice a
year with Wilmo Si-Ro-Seal.
Weighing only 201bs. and measuring
approximately 3ft. square and Bin. deep,
the Aicet is made from long-lasting
glass fibre reinforced with polyester resin
impregnated with aluminium. Esti-
mated life—twenty years. It reflects heat
and is impervious to weather and water.
Owing to its exceptionally long life the
cost of an Aicet. raft, and one year’s
supply of Wilmo Si-Ho-Seal is extremely
small when compared with the water
saved, if evaporation can be cut by only
25%. The cost of saving 1,000 gallons
ranges from 16d. where annual rain
evaporation is 2ft. to as low as 3d.
where evaporation is 10ft.
C.5.1.R.0. Bulletin extract:
“The Mansfield process which has
been developed by ' the C.5.1.R.0.
provides pastoralists and fanners
with a simple method of cutting
exaporation losses by \ or more—
the process can at present be recom-
mended for use only on areas of
water up to two acres —on dams of
up to one acre in area, one raft
should be used. Dams between one
and two acres in area need two
rafts, etc.”
The Alcet Anti-Evaporation
KaTt, complete with nj lon
mooring;, is .£35 E.O.K. capital
cities.
g, 3!b. pack of Wilmo Si-Ro-Seal is
.supplied with each raft for i4/-perlb.
NOTE; When used as directed,
Wilmo Si-Ro-Seal is completely
harmless to human, animal, bird and
marine life and does not in any
way reduce the quality of the water.
Order now from your local
Wilcox Mofflin distributor, or
send coupon today.
COUPON
Please send me further information
on the Alcet Anti-Evaporation Raft.
NAME
ADDRESS
JIL/J
i>.p
\
WILCOX MOFFLIN LTD.
15 PHILtIP STREET. SYDNEY
twenty years! I’ve had you!
I’m gonna knock your block
off!”
“This is it,” you say to your-
self as you slip your dentures
into your dustcoat-pocket.
Aloud, you lisp, just as he is
about to make his swing: “If
you king me I’ll have the con-
stab—the cops out here from
town in two hours.”
In fiction they would
knuckle-up outside on the clay-
pan, with the woolclasser
emerging victorious over the
gigantic presser. But this is a
true story!
The squatter may have his
own ideas on classing, and may
stand beside your table all day
watching you, peering in the
wool-bins and making sugges-
tions, until in exasperation you
cry: “Get to hell out of this
wool-room, you mug, with
your outdated ideas! Go on,
shoot through, before I down
you! Stop interfering ... If
you hired a good plumber to
do your plumbing you
wouldn’t interfere! Well,
you’ve hired a good classer!”
It’s a pity you said all that
under your breath, and that all
that fury and vehemence are
translated into a demure “Sure,
that’s a great idea, Mr.
Squatter .. . Yes, we’ll certainly
do it that way!”
Or another owner may come
up and say thirty-five times a
day: “How’s it coming off,
Mr. Weakstaple? They’re not
bad sheep, are they?”
The wool may be as lousy
as a miser and as doggy as
Harold Park on Wednesday
nights and the sheep as small
and as sickly as rabbits in
the last stages of myxoma-
tosis ; and thirty-five times a
day you will answer, “Yes,
they’re certainly a fine lot of
sheep, Mr. Cocky, and it’s the
best wool I’ve handled this
year—beautiful stuff!”
Owners you have met! A
family of three, all bridge
fanatics, isolated away out-
back, panting for a game. You
arrive and find yourself
ctitting for partners before
unrolling your swag. And as
you sit up yawning night after
night you can solace yourself
that, anyway, you’ll get the
shed back next year.
“Batching” alone with
another owner, and you play
an intense bitter duel of stud-
poker every night. At the cut-
out, after three weeks’ classing,
you have to write him out a
cheque. He gets his classing
done every year for nothing.
You may volunteer to be a
baby-sitter, telling the young
couple: “Why don’t you go
to town tonight and see the
movies? I’ll sit up and mind
the little dears. It’s a good
chance for you while I’m
here.”
An hour later the three little
brats all wake up yelling, and
you can’t stop ’em, and you
panic, thinking they may have
ptomaine or something. So
you phone the picture-show in
town and implore the manager
to put the slide on the
telling the parents to return
straight away to Comeback
Downs.
They break the record back,
leaving every gate open, and
burst into the house to find the
four of you passed out —the
kids wan and pinched from
exhaustion and you from
pinched Scotch.
Yeah, it’s certainly a perilous
game, this woolclassing.


Vjk
a
/
mm
x
m
17/
Envy from
Nylon ? Never !
After all, woo! has so much to offer . . . it’s
WONDERFUL . . . always has been and always will be.
BUT wool PLUS a relatively small percentage of
Nylon becomes quite astonishing in its added versatility.
Nylon weaves a touch of magic into wool . . . makes it harder
wearing . . . permanently pleatable, absolutely unbeatable
as an all-season fabric. For any occasion . . . there is
nothing to touch wool . . . with Nylon. See what we’re
1 driving at? Nylon can make fine woollens . . . finer!
You gain so much from so little.
fS)
rjXylonJ
(ET^
If you want to know more about Nylon, write to
BRITISH NYLON SPINNERS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.,
90 Queen Street, Melbourne, C.l. Technical information will be supplied gladly.
As Life Is There Today
Homestead in the Central West
By BETHIA FOOTT
T HE Lachlan River rises
in the western slopes
of the Great Dividing
Range at Crookwell,
not far from Culerin Gap.
From here it meanders
through the more populated
eastern section of New South
Wales west of the range,
pauses at the great Wyangala
Dam, and resumes its journey
over the plains of the Central
West to disappear in waters
of the Murrumbidgee, out in
the isolated splendor of the
real Far West.
At a spot well past the
Wyangala Dam, yet not quite
so far as Condobolin, where
the black alluvial soil is cut by
great curves made by the
water’s constant course, a billa-
bong flings a wide arm round
a faintly moulded stretch of
land, which in flood - time
becomes an island.
Although not obvious to the
naked eye, this piece of land
is higher than the rest, and
here, on the only safe ground
for miles around except for
one other smaller piece near it,
a homestead stands, with its
attendant cluster of buildings.
Beside the house a small
white - painted cottage lies,
which gives the German maid
her gingerbread-house, and
fills her heart with joy. Near
it a small row of buildings
house the meat, the stores and
the dairy. Round them there
is a perfect battery of water-
tanks, on the roof, on stilts,
and on platforms over the
meat-house.
Outside the gate—where
the dogs lie in flat beds
burrowed in the dust, panting
in the shade of the pepper-
trees—is the garage, contain-
ing the car, a utility, and a
horse-float. Next it are the
stables, and a small silo.
At the other end of the
island, the other side of the
small orchard, is the cottage
where the “man” and his wife
live, their two Illawarra Short-
horn cows beside them,
This domestic coterie is
surrounded by gardens, and
flanked on one side by a hard
tennis-court, which in time of
flood makes a useful target
for a plane to drop the mail
and any emergency rations
needed by the beleaguered
inhabitants,
The house, which was built
in 1914 to replace the original
homestead, is made of sheet-
iron, stamped to look like
brick *> , and Painted cream to
resist the heat. • A lOft.-wide
(Continued on next page)


SYDNEY
SHEEP SHOW
sfh-Bfh June at the Showground
Come and see the sheep dog trials
The excitement of sheep dog trials arouses the interest of ail.
Come along and see the world's finest display of sheep. An
Outstanding display of fleeces is exhibited in the Arts and
Crafts Pavilion. There are special classes for Junior Farmers.
SHEEP DOG TRIALS— 6th, 7th and Bth June.
SHEARING DEMONSTRATIONS— Sth June, 2-4 p.m.; 6th June,
10.30 a.m.-12.30 p.m. and 2-4 p.m.; 7th June, 10.30 a.m.-12
noon; Bth June, 10.30 a.m.-12.30 p.m. and 2-4 p.m. In the
Arts and Crafts Pavilion.
OTHER SPECIAL ATTRACTIONS include display of Flock
Testing Methods by School of Wool Technology.
Display of Lamb and Mutton Carcasses in Meat Board Building
—sth and 6th June.
Dogs and Cats Shows will be held on Bth June.
Poultry Show will be held on 7th and Bth June.
H.S.W. SHEEPBREEDERS’ ASSOCIATION
Adults, 5/- (AH Sections). Children, 2/-
PORT LINE LTD
Regular Sailings—Fa.st and Modern Vessels.
Taking Wool, Refrigerated'and General Cargo to United
Kingdom, American and Canadian Ports.
Limited number of passengers carried.
1 1 IH|
a
mm mmm.
■ ■ ■
m
AGENTS—
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Brisbane, Newcastle, Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
TASMANIAN WOOLGROWEKS’ AGENCY CO. LTD., Launceston.
ACSTRALIAN ESTATES CO. LTI)., North Queensland ports.
WEST AUSTRALIAN SHIPPING ASSOCIATION LTD., Fremantle.
Head Office in Australia:
PORT LINE LTD.
(Inc. in England)
Chadswoith House, 1-7 Bent Street, Sydney.
New Zealand : Maritime Building, Wellington.
veranda planted with a huge
wistaria - vine shields the
windows from the sun’s hot
rays. In an effort to keep the
heat at bay, the walls, lined
with plaster, or in some
instances with the same sheet-
iron as forms the outer walls,
are packed with charcoal
made from burning some of
the big red river-gums that
grow about the place.
The roof is of corrugated-
iron, coated with a heat-resist-
ant paint. It is now lined with
insulwool, but was, until two
years ago, filled with sawdust.
This, I am told, kept the house
fairly cool, but was not as
good as the present covering.
Inside, a 10ft.-wide hall
runs from the front-door to
the dining-room, which is
reached by a step, and which
once, in the early days of the
house, formed half of the room
known as the ballroom. It has
since been divided, to make
a dining-room and a break-
fast-room.
Beyond these two rooms
come the kitchen, pantry and
storerooms, and a couple of
spare rooms. The main bed-
room, sitting-room and office
all open off the front-hall. All
the rooms are high, with
intricately patterned iron ceil-
ings.
The walls are painted pale
green or cream. The floors
are made of .wide boards,
polished and spread with rugs.
The furniture, much of it
inherited, is old and lovely.
The windows, doors and
chimneys are all covered with
flywire, which keeps out the
countless flies and moths and
mosquitoes especially the
mosquitoes, which are huge
and lissom, most fearless and
venturesome explorers.
Although (I should have
thought) well out in the
country, and away from any
township, electric-power is
available to all in this district
who want it, so that in intense
heat, when the temperature
may run for days at a stretch
from lOOdeg. to llOdeg., the
inhabitants of the homestead
can always have iced drinks,
usually made from their own
grapefruit or oranges; and
power-points in every room
make it possible to plug-in an
electric-fan, which keeps the
air moving, and at least gives
an illusion of making the
place feel cooler.
Outside, the garden is a
green oasis. Even in time of
drought, when water from
the river is rationed, it is still
possible to keep things alive.
The lawns are pleasantly
green; the shrubs tall and well-
grown. Big pink and white
oleanders grow against the
white post - and - rail fence
which marks the cultivated
boundary of this parched and
sometimes arid land.
With water, it seems as if
anything will grow here, for
English winter - roses (the
delicate green and white
Helleborus) and stock lie in
the shade of lilacs, both
Persica and Vulgaris. Crepe
myrtles, bleached white in
this fierce sun, grow next to
blue and- white agapanlhus;
and hydrangeas—pink here, as
they grow in their native
China and Japan—form a
background for strong and tall
delphiniums, which, on cloud-
less .nights, show their color
for twenty-four hours at a
time. With every star turned
full on, the light from Orion
alone, I should think, from
his left foot, Rigel, to Betel-
geuse, his right arm, would
shed enough light to show
each leaf, each bud and full-
blown flower in its true color.
The garden is kept by the
owner’s wife. She digs and
plants and weeds and waters,
with no outside help except
for an occasional call of
anguish to implore her
husband to shoot the sulphur-
crested white-cockatoos who
come and gobble what they
may; or to kill each snake
which, enticed by the cool,
dark pipe that carries water to
the matted roots of the
jasmine by the gate, likes the
idea of making this his perm-
anent home.
Beyond the garden-fence,
as far as the eye can see, lie
the flat brown acres which
bring wealth to Australia, and
a living to all who work on
the land. In this case, 1700
acres surround the homestead.
They are divided into five, to
form first, grazing for cattle
(mostly • Poll Herefords),
whose calves are sold as
vealers to the meat-market
either in Sydney or the local
township; secondly, to do the
same for. crossbred sheep
whose lambs are sold as four-
months-old suckers to the
local market; thirdly, to grow
wheat; fourthly, for oats; and,
lastly and chiefly, for crops of
lucerne:
The wheat is grown for
sale. The oats and lucerne are
grown primarily for food, to
be used as needed by the
stock, with the remainder sold
in a most comfortable way
after a short .conversation on
the telephone. A trunk-call:
“That you, Bob? Dick
here. How are you all? Good.
o Continued on page 74)


Maximum BLOWFLY Protection
KILLS
s. -;f( /
h,
-^5
///>.
/
-
- c
/
vV
%^r=rm_
DIPPING
A
*.• - '
/' i m % 1
In the last 12 months, Graziers have been convinced
that DIELSAN gives maximum protection at lowest
cost. Under per gallon for lice and ked control;
under sd. per gallon for MAXIMUM BLOWFLY
PROTECTION.
• SUPERIOR SUSPENSION
• EASIEST TO MIX
• USE IN PLUNGE OR SHOWER
DIPS OR AS A JETTING FLUID
DIELSAN ...66/6 PER PACK
BOOTS PURE DRUG CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART


r >
Nevertire —Australia’s
most efficient Jetter
WITH MYERS DU-ALL THE WORLD S BEST PUMP
/ Lr x
Lx
Jetting is now accepted as the most economical
and effective method of combating fly strike
as there is no run-off to weaken the solution.
But plant breakdowns are costly and the
success of jetting depends entirely upon the
effectiveness of the pumping equipment and
the design of the jetting head. Nevertire
Jetters are built for dependable service under the most exacting
conditions. Their powerful engines give trouble-free service for
long periods, and the cylinders of the Myers Du-all pump are
porcelain lined and highly resistant to corrosive jetting chemicals.
Nevertire Jetters are supplied in portable and mobile units with or
without filler pumps. Tank capacity of mobile units is 50 gallons.
-K Easy ferms available —see your local D.G.M. Agent
3Vi gals./min. at 300 lbs, pressure
SYDNEY DISTRIBUTORS:
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH, LIMITED,
10-14 Young Street, SYDNEY.
Phone: BU 5095. P.O. Box 509
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
POWER PLANT, LIMITED,
100 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
FLOWER, DAVIES & JOHNSON, LIMITED,
407-417 Murray Street, PERTH.
Economic Background
Wool and the Balance of Payments
By J. ABERCROMBIE
Australia has passed
through two well-publi-
cised balance - of -
payments “crises” since
the 1939-45 war and most
Australians have become
accustomed perhaps too
accustomed—to the plea for a
larger export income.
Balance-of-payments crises
are, of course, neither new nor
peculiar to Australia, and at
different times have been a
more-or-less recurrent feature
of many national economies.
It was the difficulty of financing
overseas purchases with the
proceeds of exports and loans
that precipitated Australia’s
abandonment of the gold-
standard in 1931. The emphasis
placed on exports and over-
seas reserves at these times is
natural, but it assumes an
awareness of their importance
to our economic well-being.
A country’s overseas
reserves, as such, may add
strength to its currency in
international dealings, but their
true value is in the fact that
they guarantee that, for a time,
a flow of imported goods will
continue to enter the country.
It is this ability to purchase in
foreign markets that is "vital
to Australia.
The extent to which we, as a
nation and as individuals, are
dependent on the products and
services of other nations is
sometimes forgotten, especially
when considering the develop-
ment and achievements of our
own primary and secondary
industries. The establishment
of an Australian motor-vehicle
industry, for example, has been
achieved with considerable
success, but the whole of our
transport system is still
dependent on lubricants and,
to a lesser degree, fuels manu-
factured from imported raw
materials. At the same time
much of the machinery which
has helped to improve produc-
tivity (and living-standards) has
of necessity been imported.
Oil, rubber, cotton, certain
chemicals and numerous other
items are not. and, in many
cases, cannot be produced
locally, but the ultimate con-
sumer of such goods or the
purchaser of tea, coffee,
tobacco and even Scotch
whisky quite naturally expects
that these things should be
available.
In the long run exports must
provide the income necessary to
pay for imports, and it is the
basic nature of many imported
goods that turns a series of
unfavorable trade balances
into a “crisis.”
Roughly half of Australia’s
export income is derived from
the sale of wool. Paradoxi-
cally, perhaps, wool is also
responsible for a fair share of
the country’s balance-of-pay-
ments problem.
Australian wool is produced
and sold under conditions of
free competition. Individual
producing-units are small in
relation to total output, and are
unable to influence the price at
which their particular output is,
sold. The bulk of the wool-clip
is auctioned under similarly
competitive conditions.


HIGHLIGHTS
OF THE
Sydney Sheep Show
* SHEEP SALES
We invite you to inspect the many outstanding
sheep in our comprehensive section of the Sale
Catalogue.
★ BULL SALES
Shorthorn and Poll Shorthorn, adjacent to the
Bull Sale Ring.
9.30 a.m., Saturday, Bth June.
★ FAT STOCK
The now famous Fat Stock Show and Sales held
in the “A” Cattle Pavilion, Friday, 31st May,
10.30 a.m.
★ SERVICE
To provide our clients with
COMPLETE & CONSCIENTIOUS SERVICE
our specially trained officers will be in attendance
on the Grounds during the Show and Sales period.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Company, Limited,
(Incorporated in England)
38 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: BU 5141 Telegrams: “Jarvie*
The pre-war characteristic of
the world market for wool (and
several other prijnary products)
was instability, demand, on the
whole, proving more variable
than supply, despite the effects
of favorable or unfavorable
seasonal conditions.
This chronic instability has
been demonstrated over the
last eight or nine years follow-
ing the expiration of various
war-time marketing agreements.
The jump of 64 p.c. in export
income in 1951 and subsequent
variations have been mainly
due to movements in the price
and quantity of wool exported.
The relationship between the
value of total exports and the
value of wool exports is
reflected in the following
table:
Year ended Exports Wool
June 30. (F. 0.8.). Exports.
£miluon. £million.
1950 .. .. 592.9 318.0
1951 .. .. 975.1 633.2
1952 .. .. 664.2 323.4
1953 .. .. 846.2 402.9
1954 .. .. 811.7 410.4
1955 .. .. 761.4 353.1
1956 .. .. 772.3 337.8
A country may experience
quite a number of lean export-
years without serious damage
to its economy, but eventually
the rate of importing must be
geared to the average income
obtained from the sale of goods
and services to other countries.
A widely fluctuating export-
income can make this a rather
difficult —or painful—operation
and in Australia’s case explains,
in part; the seemingly hap-
hazard manner in which
import-restrictions have* at
times been applied.
The need for some regu-
lation of imports is rarely dis-
puted. Unfortunately, however,
many of the forces loosely
referred to as the laws of
economics are merely reflec-
tions of human nature (and its
reactions to hunger, satiety,
etc.) and human nature is
notoriously indifferent to legis-
lation. As a result, economic
controls tend to beget more
controls as Governments, either
directly or through statutory
authorities, attempt to keep a
controlled economy “con-
trolled.”
Despite the influence of wool
on the economic health of the
country, its production and
marketing have, in times of
peace, been little affected by
State controls. Price-stabilisa-
tion schemes and alternative
marketing procedures have
been discussed, but wool con-
tinues to be produced and
marketed under free and com-,
petilive conditions. Such con-
trols as are thought necessary
to internal economic stability
are applied as the wool-cheque
works its way into the financial
system.
Controlled or otherwise, our
dependence on wool for a large
proportion of export income
subjects the economy to a
degree of instability in both
external and internal trade, and
as long as this situation exists
import - restrictions will, it
seems, continue to be a major
element in economic policy.
The world demand for wool
has increased in recent years
and has, so far, been little
affected by the development of
synthetic fibres. The possibility
of increasing competition from
synthetics, however, cannot be
ignored. A leading American
banker recently claimed that
the chemical - industry can
expect “at least one-fifth of its
business in 1975 to consist of
products not yet discovered or
in production.”
Wool has brought, and con-
tinues to bring, considerable
wealth into the country, but
our reliance on the woolgrower
to earn the lion’s share of our
export income is a basic cause
of many of our current
economic problems, and a safe-
guard against a prolonged
slump in wool-prices is needed.
Probably the best safeguard is
an increase in the proportion
of total exports coming from
other sectors of primary
industry and, particularly,
from secondary industry.
This involves an expansion
of secondary industry; not,
primarily, from a profit angle,
but as a supplementary, and if
necessary alternative, provider
of overseas funds.
If sometimes this point
appears to be overemphasised,
it may be wise to consider the
possible effects if, instead of an ■
improvement in the current
season’s wool-prices, there had
been a sharp fall.
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford
Wool Type Card. This Card
has' many uses as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered—in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed,
or in the paddock, with a
type, perhaps, outside the
main run of your experience.
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing.
A comparison study, using
the Bradford Wool Type
Card, eliminates the possi-
bility of error. Your name
and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to
“The Bulletin” will send one
on its way.


In Western Australia
" 1
the Wool and Livestock service of
WESTRALIAN FARMERS
CO-OPERATIVE LIMITED
-
is unsurpassed
WOOL BROKERS
STUD STOCK BUYING
and SELLING BROKERS
'
Branches in all major country centres.
Agents in all districts.
Stud Stock Representatives in all States, Tasmania,
New Zealand and Great Britain.
«
We welcome enquiries in respect to Purchases, Transport,
Insurance, etc., on Stock business.
Consult us on Sheep Classing and Valuations of Stud Stock.
WOOL SALES HELP REGULARLY
Wool Stores: South Fremantle and North Fremantle.
HEAD OFFICE: 569 Wellington St., Perth.
•
Cable and Telegram: WESFARMERS, Perth.
Melbourne Office: Central Arcade, Collins St.
London: Overseas Farmers Co-op. Ltd., Fenchurch St.
FOR
AIR
mTRAVEL
THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD
Book through
BIRT & CO.
(PTY.) LIMITED
4 Bridge Street, Sydney
80529 B 0 5 2 9
also at
312-316 Elizabeth Street,
Brisbane,
and Port Kembla, N.S.W.
Yes, we’re all fine. No, no
’hoppers yet, but they’ll be
along, you bet they will.
Listen, Bob, could you do
with a load of lucerne? Right,
I’ll ring Fred and get him to
come round in the morning.
Let’s see, four-hundred . . . if
he gets an early start he should
be with you about nine-o’clock
to-morrow evening. What?
Turn in at the second gate past
the mailbox? Right. He’ll do
that. So long.”
Waking, in my room at four-
o’clock next morning I hear
Fred and his lorry load-up and
start on the way. Down south
he goes, his scarlet lorry
coated with dust as he travels
the plains and hills, past
districts rich with emerald
crops or lush with pasture for
the well-fed stock.
Past these he goes, to some
far corner where drought has
killed all man-sown plants,
where skeleton-weed, or cork-
screw-grass brings only dis-
comfort or death to hungry
animals, whose lives his load
will help to save. Lovely
lucerne, juicy and fresh,
gathered by night with the
dew and the water still on
it, so that the flails of the
harvester do not brush the
leaf from the stalk and leave
nothing but sticks to be
garnered.
Of all the crops he sows,
the owner feels that lucerne,
gives him his best return. In
this rich soil it is not necess-
ary to spread super, over the
ground, as it is in the hill
country or eroded areas.
Water is all the lucerne needs,
and —apart from reticulation
—its roots will delve to a
depth of 30ft. to 40ft. in
search of moisture. But this
owner has installed a spray-
system of irrigation, and once
these expenses have been met,
lucerne is an easy and a
profitable crop to sow. Planted
in October, it is possible to
harvest five, or even six, crops
between then and the follow-
ing April.
Irrigation is controlled, to
give each crop about 6in. of
water an acre, usually with the
hoses turned on at night. These
hoses are placed laterally
along the ground, and only
require moving when the crop
is about to be cut. This is just
as well, for the hoses get
entangled with the plants, and
it is hard work, often in gFeat
heat, pulling them out by
hand and placing them in
lines between sprayings.
Several methods of irrigation
are available. Some pumps can
pump up to 3DOO gallons of
water a minute, but this uses a
lot of water, and a spray-
system is more economical.
This is most important. With
the advent of electricity, every-
one on the river uses more
water than he ever used before,
which already necessitates
rationing during the hot, dry
months.
This is a situation which
causes the owner and his
friends considerable alarm,
because it is one which will
get worse as more settlers invest
in electrical pumps, or irrigate
their land with canals.. The
amount of water available in
Australia is, alas, strictly
limited. The waters of the
Missouri, the Ohio, the
Arkansas, the Red and the great
Mississippi rivers, the lakes of
Michigan, Superior, Huron,
Erie and Ontario, are not for
us.
in a good year lucerne-crops
can be gathered averaging
roughly a ton an acre. Lucerne
costs about £5 an acre to
produce, and sells at from any-
thing over - £l2 a ton, so it is
obviously well worth growing
if —and it is a very big if
nothing happens to prevent its
growth.
There are many things that
can bring disaster, and this is
a risk the owner must take each
year. Drought can kill young
plants, floods can drown, grass-
hoppers devour, fire burn.
The year of my visit the
harvest was good. But the
previous three years had been
terrible ones. In an area where
the average rainfall is 19in.
there had suddenly been, each
year, ravaging floods. At first,
never having known such
devastation in this district
before, the owner and indeed
all the local owners were unpre-
pared. Now they know better,,
and this is well, for each Hood
has been worse than the last.
When word comes over the
regional radio-station that the
Wyangala Dam has overflowed,
and that the river, in conse-
quence, is rising rapidly and
will burst its banks, the owner
just has time to drive his
utility over the narrow pass
between the river and the billa-
T. G. CARTER, chairman of
Australian Wool Bureau a
New England ( N.S.W .) grazier,
and one of the most popular
figures in the industry. Cur-
rently overseas promoting wool.
bong fa springless channel
filled only by water overflowing
from the river) and to drive it
to the gate two miles away.
He then launches his boat,
with an outboard-motor, and
floats back to the isolated home-
stead. Two boats are needed
now ; the outboard-motor for
reaching the utility and so get-
ting in to the township for
stores fso far the road has
never been impassable), and a
rowing-boat for tending the
(Continued on page 89)


Why turn your Accountant
into a Gunman ?...
when you
con let
us
curry the
weapons!
a*. - : s
k
... .
When your accountant collects your pay-
roll he takes risks for you that you have
no moral right to ask him. Carrying a
gun is no job for an accountant. And
have you ever asked his wife how she
feels about it? No payroll, however large,
is worth a human life. Don’t take risks!
Mayne Nickless can collect your payroll
more safely and for less cost than you
could ever do it yourself. Your payroll
staff gets off to a flying start, because
Mayne Nickless will deliver the money at
any time to suit you. Supposing your
payroll amounts to £3OO . . . you get the
complete protection of the Mayne Nickless
Payroll Delivery Service for only 17/- a
week . . . £3,000, just £3/5/- a week!
Incredible, isn’t it? . . . especially when
your payroll is fully insured against all
risks until the moment you pay your staff.
Why not use us next payday?
ap
For an on-thespoi quotation for your payroll simply ring:
MAYNE NICKLESS PAYROLL DELIVERY
AND BANK DEPOSIT SERVICE
572 King Street, Newtown, Sydney.
697 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
LA 5743.
FJ 9274.
or any of our offices at
NEWCASTLE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, BROKEN HILL, GEELONG,
YALLOURN, MORWELL, WOLLONGONG, PORT KEMBLA & HOBART


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE NEW ZEALAND LAMB
By A. A. SMITH
A QUARTER of New
Zealand’s income from
exports is earned by her
meat - export industry,
whose 75th anniversary was
celebrated this year with the
issue of special postage-stamps,
denoting the prime importance
to the Dominion of her great
fat-lamb trade.
New Zealand’s meat-export
industry is now worth nearly
£7O million annually, and of
that nearly £5O million comes
from sales of the famous New
Zealand lamb—“ The Best in
the World.” This year New
Zealand lamb has touched
peak price-levels in the London
market.
With by-products included,
the meat-industry as a whole
earns an export-income of £9O
to £lOO million a year, making
New Zealand the greatest
exporter of mutton and lamb
in the world, and providing
about half Britain's annual con-
sumption of these meats.
In some regions of
the Transvaal sheep
are reared exclusively
for m u 11« n, the
country being unsuit-
able for woolgrowing
because of humid
weather conditions
and excessive growth
of thorny bushes.
Scientists are now
trying to breed a local
type of sheep with a
sparse hairy coat
instead of fleece!
Even in the case of
such a breed the
marking and tailing
of the lambs by “Elas-
trator” Rubber Rings
would be advisable
because lambs marked
and tailed, in this way
suffer little, if any,
set-back and * thus
maintain prime con-
dition.
nrHE industry was founded in
1882 when the sailing-ship
Dunedin, 1250 tons and fitted
with refrigeration-machinery,
carried the first £BOOO cargo to
Britain. Today the sheep-
population of New Zealand is
just over 39-million, and there
are 26-million breeding-ewes.
New Zealand exports 14-million
lambs a year to Britain and
sells abroad a total of about
400,000 tons of meat a year.
As New Zealand extends
over several hundred miles
from north to south, there are
significant differences between
a sheepfarm in North Auck-
land, say, and one in South-
land ; but, apart from this,
three main types of sheep-
farming can be distinguished.
On the higher country in the
South Island there is a sparse
tussock - cover on which
Merinos, and perhaps half-
breds, may be run. Properties
on this class of country may be
very large, by New Zealand
standards, for the average
carrying-capacity is one sheep
to about four or five acres.
Fine wool is practically the sole
product, and though some store-
sheep may be sold, the numbers
are not great. High-country
sheepfarmers are not con-
cerned with meat-production.
Store-sheep farms are found
throughout Ne w Zealand,
usually on hilly or rolling
country, though in the South
Island the colder climate com-
pels the adoption of a some-
what different technique of
management from that used in
the north.
Practically all the sheep in the
North Island are a Romney-
cross, as are a big proportion of
those in the South Island, but
ON A TYPICAL N.Z. FAT-LAMB FARM
other breeds, such as the
Corriedale, are important, too.
The store-sheep farmer gets
his income from wool, and
from the sale of store-stock,
though on a large number of
farms some fat-lambs may be
sent away also. It is sometimes
difficult to draw a sharp dis-
tinction between a store-sheep
farm and an intensive fattening-
farm, but each has a clear-cut
function. The typical store-
sheep farmer runs one to two
Romney-cross ewes per acre,
and in the North Island relies
almost entirely on pasture for
feed ; in the South Island he is
compelled to grow some kind
of supplementary-crop to carry
the stock through the winter,
When his ewes are four
years old the farmer sells them
to the intensive fat-lamb farm,
They are then usually mated
with Southdown rams, and
after one or two seasons are dis-
posed of for mutton,
The fat-lamb farmer carries
four to six ewes per acre, and,
in the North Island, again relies
very largely on pasture for feed,
His aim is to get as high a
proportion as possible of the
iambs away, fat off the mothers.
Lightweight lambs, up to 351 b.
dressed-weight, bring the best
price.
In the South Island, supple-
mentary-crops of rape aid
turnips have to be grown, the
latter for winter-feed and the
rape for finishing the lambs,
As might be expected, the use
of the Romney-Southdown
cross is not so widespread as in
the north,
TIEEF- CATTLE in New
D Zealand have always
played a supplementary role on
sheepfarms. For many years
prices for frozen-beef were not
encouraging, and though the
first shipment of chilled-beef in
1934 offered prospects of an
improvement, the outbreak of
war put an end to this develop-
ing. trade, and it was not
renewed until 1953. However,
in recent years beef-prices have
been much more favorable, and.
this, combined with the


Russian Comfrey
For Farm, Garden or Small-holding
1. Has been authoritatively rated
with Italian ryegrass for feed-
ing value.
2. Thrives in Australian sunny
conditions and yields up to one
ton a day from only 14 acres
with good management.
3. Outyields all other fodder crops
with 100 tons an acre, and has
exceeded all other crops in pro-
tein (33.08%).
4. Has very great drought resist-
ance, and persists l'or up to 40
years without deteriorating.
Does not seed, sucker or get
out of control.
5. Is valuable calf-rearing food,
and cows and calves love it!
0. Produces great quantities of
feed when pasture is scarce,
and causes heavy milk-flow.
7. Does not scour or bloat, ban-
ishes intestinal and digestive
troubles. Has low fibre con-
tent for pigs and poultry.
8. Is palatable to sheep also, and
is mineral rich owing to very
deep root system.
9. Has no insect pests, is not
touched by rabbits, and is very
hardy.
10. Is easier to establish, longer in
cut and higher in yield than
lucerne. Is tasty vegetable.
Send for introductory booklet giving
my farm experiments with this crop,
and book for Spring planting with
pioneer grower.
W. F. SAVAGE,
GREEN FARM. RED HILL. STH.,
VICTORIA.
i
wm
' V* s
s:: : 3
S , J '
All eyes will be
on the
75th Anniversary Team
frem
HADDON RIG
To celebrate the anniversary of its foundation
by James Richmond in 1882, Haddon Rig will
send another outstanding team to the Sydney
Ram Sales. Although the stud has sold in
Sydney since 1906, and possesses a sales record
that is unequalled, veteran judges agree that,
for such an important occasion, the quality of
the 112 rams chosen leaves nothing to be
desired.
Five Haddon Rig Special Stud Rams will be
auctioned by Dalgety & Company, together
with 37 Stud Rams and 24 Selected Rams.
One of the most notable of the “Specials” is
No. 9 (illustrated) by a Special Stud Ram from
a Double Stud Ewe. Old hands consider him
to be one of the most majestic sires that Haddon
Rig has sent down in recent years. Twenty-two
Selected Rams will be offered by A.M.L. & F.
Co., and 24 more by Goldsbrough Mort & Co.
The sales will give you an opportunity to bid
for the wealth that Haddon Rig Blood brings.
Whether you are a breeder or a grower, you
can rely on this famous strain in the years
ahead. Today, throughout Australia, the
owners of 200 studs and innumerable flocks
are profiting from Haddon Rig’s 75 years of
skilled and remarkably successful breeding.
HADDON RIG STUD
WARREN, N.S.W.
TELEPHONE: WARREN 74
resumption of chilled-beef
exports, has encouraged
farmers to take a greater
interest in beef-production.
Nonetheless, the fact
remains that beef-cattle are
used in New Zealand princi-
pally as a cultivating
implement. They control the
rank pasture-growth in the jate
spring and early summer, and
on hill-country farms in the
North Island they are used to
crush the fern and second
growth. In the South Island
they are of little economic
importance.
There are 38 meat-export
works in New Zealand, some of
them locally owned, some
owned by large overseas
interests.
Farmers have the right to
have their stock killed at a
freezing-works and export it
themselves. Though extensive
use is not made of this privi-
lege much importance is
attached to its retention, as it
acts as a check on the freezing-
companies.
In the first decade of its
existence the meat - industry
made rapid progress, and by
1890 over one-million carcasses
of lamb and mutton were
exported each year, though the
concentration on the fat-lamb
trade came more slowly. Up
to 1914, Canterbury remained
the principal fat-lamb pro-
ducer, but with the develop-
ment of better-quality pastures
in the North Island, permitting
the introduction of' a more
intensive type of farming, fat-
lamb production in the north
rapidly outstripped the south.
Up to the mid-1890’s, the
industry faced many difficulties
—overseas prices were low, and
there was still a fair amount of
prejudice against frozen-meat.
From the beginning of the
century, however, up to the
end of World War I, prices
were steadily rising, despite
occasional interruptions.
Producers were at times critical
of marketing methods, but the
climate of opinion was, on the
whole, opposed to any radical
change.
In 1915 the British Govern-
ment asked the New Zealand
Government to buy on its
behalf the complete exportable
surplus of meat. The prices
fixed were satisfactory, and
adjustments were made at
various stages of the war. This
contract terminated in June,
1920.
nrHE prosperity enjoyed by
•* the industry encouraged a
big expansion in meat-produc-
tion, and led to the building of
a number of new works. The
whole atmosphere was very
optimistic, and this made the
impact of the post-war slump
all the more severe. Shortages
of shipping had led to the
accumulation of large stocks of
meat in New Zealand, and, with
the end of the contract system
in 1920, very large stocks of
meat were unloaded on a
market already falling.
The catastrophic fall in prices
compelled producers to take
stock of their situation and
examine the system, or lack of
system, in the marketing of
their products ; to study ways
and means that might bring
about an improvement.
In particular, an organisation
was needed to prevent the over-
seas market from being flooded
when prices were unfavorable
and to regulate shipments from
New Zealand. The Meat
Export Control Act 1921-22,
which established the Meat
Producers Board, was designed
to do this. The board was
given wide powers of control,
but it has always used them
sparingly.
Among the problems it
tackled were the regulation of
meat-shipments to Britain, the
negotiation of freight and
insurance contracts, and the'
inauguration of an advertising
programme in overseas
markets. The board also acts
as a spokesman for meat-
producers and protects their
interests generally.
r T'HE onset of the depression
-* in the 1930’s created new


TIE WIRE-NETTING
GERRARD
AUTOMATIC
RING FASTENER
GUN - - - 60/- each
GALVANISED FASTENERS
ll- per 1000
EASY WAY-
(2S
yds. per
minute)
Ring Fasteners are sold
in packets of 1 000
f As fast as you can squeeze Its
easy-working handles, this self-
feeding gun effortlessly clamps the
14 Gauge cement-adhered staples into sturdy i in. rings, which are automati-
cally fed into the jaws. There is no wastage—the job is quick, neat and strong.
Available from ALL WOOL HOUSES and
GENERAL STORES
Manufactured by Gerrard Engineering Pty. Ltd., IS Ireland St., W. MELB.
're so dependable!
difficulties for the industry. The
market for livestock-products
in Britain was being under-
mined by heavy imports, and
the British Government, in
order to protect the home
farmer, introduced a measure
of control over foreign imports.
No immediate restrictions
were placed on imports from
New Zealand, but from 1934
short-term quotas were
imposed. These did not seri-
ously inconvenience the
industry, but the whole system
was irritating and cumbersome.
In 1939 restrictions were
proposed on mutton which had
much more serious implica-
tions, but the outbreak of war
a few months later changed the
whole situation.
Plans to establish a system
of bulk-buying had been laid
before the war, and these were
brought into force immediately.
The Marketing Department
became the sole buying
authority, acting for the U.K.
Ministry of Food.
Jn the first two years of the
war the shortage of shipping
caused some difficulties, and
restrictions had to be placed on
the killing of some classes of
meat for export, but from 1943
onward the shipping position
improved to such an extent that
the United Kingdom Govern-
ment agreed to take everything
that could be produced. Large
quantities of meat were also
supplied to the United States
Forces.
The first long-term bulk-
buying contract tor meat was
entered into in 1943 and exten-
sions were granted in 1946 and
1948, this latter contract being
for a seven-year term. Pro-
vision was made for annual
price-adjustments. From 1943
onwards, in return for a
Government undertaking to
keep costs stable, producers
agreed that any realisations
over and above an agreed figure
would be paid into a reserve-
fund, and this policy was con-
tinued in the immediate post-
war years.
But farmers had some mis-
givings about continuing to
build -up reserves ; many
thought the time had come for
the lull overseas realisation to
be paid to individual producers.
it was also felt, by both
farmers’ organisations and by
me Government, that some
greater assurance, if not of
market stability, at least of
market accessibility, was
needed other than that provided
by the bulk-purchase contract.
Though in the immediate post-
war years a recurrence of the
apparent overproduction of
the 1930's seemed remote the
threat of British quota-restric-
tions was a lasting memory.
The Joint Declaration, signed
early in 1952, was the outcome
of a series of discussions with
the British Government on this
subject. Under the terms of
the declaration the British
Government agreed to the
unrestricted entry of New
Zealand lamb, mutton, beef,
veal and edible offals thereof
until 1967.
Two years later, with the
British abandonment of meat-
rationing, the Government and
the Meat Board were faced
with the decision as to whether
to allow the bulk-purchase con-
tract to run its full term or to
cancel it immediately. The
Government, acting on the
advice of the Meat Board,
(Continued on page 83)


'Phenovis' Brand of Phanothiazine.
&
tWSSZs.
u
f'i
€
111
B*SSSE®3@
. W i
ggm <r ■
jp:
y
* m
mt>
> ?
* i** i
P fC
88
3*
>»*■
WWM : M
, . ■■: -
m m
52838
Vfi^S
\\
w
r/.
mmm.
mmmm.
&c.
■■ ■:
w:z*Wfß
, _*
*
the effective drench for
worms in sheep
h mjNojßLE_ynMjL
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
ICI
P R_OTE CTI OJI_ P BOD OCT
OF AUSTRALIA S NEW ZEALAND LTD.
1534 . PH E . 62X .408#
in Western Australia is little
short of miraculous. It has
been the fairy-godmother of
the Cinderella State. It has
brought more wealth to the
producers than all the other
plants which have been intro-
duced. It has vastly improved
the pastures on the State's
small proportion of good agri-
cultural land, and has estab-
lished flourishing farms on
land that, without it, would be
rightly regarded as useless.
Subterranean - clover .has
established permanent pastures
totalling nearly six-million
acres, which are increasing at
the rate of 500,000 acres a
year, particularly in the wheat-
growing areas, where many
farmers are now making much
more money from their wool-
clip and their fat-lambs than
they are from their crops.
It is not easy for people in
other States or other countries
to realise what this plant has
done for the West, because it
is equally as difficult for them
to understand how naturally
poor so much of the land
really is.
Less than 30 years ago, when
subterranean-clover was just
beginning to spread out in the
better-rainfall areas of the
south-west, there were thous-
ands of acres of land within
35 miles of Perth, adjacent to
a main . road and railway,
which could be bought for any-
thing from 7s. 6d. to 20s. an
acre. The best of the land in
the district had been under
cultivation since the very early
days, but nobody wanted the
light country.
It was not worth the cost of
clearing because, once cleared,,
it was not worth the trouble of
ploughing land so shallow in
fertile topsoil that it would be
a matter of years before it
could be brought to a stage
of profitable production.
Under the roughest and
cheapest methods of cultiva-
tion, subterranean-clover, with
the addition of the necessary
superphosphate and trace-
elements, has established pas-
tures on this class of country
which are not only carrying
sheep but dairies which supply
the metropolitan milk-trade,
and studs of beef-cattle.
There are very large areas
of this type of country in the
south-west of the State, where
the rainfall averages 30in. or
more. In its natural state it is
completely useless.
Wherever “sub.” has been
introduced the sheep have
followed, and the consequent
improvement in the fertility of
the soil has, after a few years,
made it possible to introduce
Wimmera - rye and other
grasses, and so provide a
better-balanced pasture than
the clover alone could supply.
The luxuriant growth of
nutritious fodder that springs
up in the Mallee-country of
the eastern States led many
farmers who came to the West
in the wheat-boom of the
’twenties to believe that they
would find similar conditions
over here.
As far as wheatgrowing was
concerned, they found that
conditions were much alike ;
but as for grazing, what little
feed there was would never
support more than a few
“killer” sheep.
The introduction of the early
Dwalganup variety of sub-
terranean-clover has revolu-
tionised farming in the wheat-
belt of the West. It has re-
juvenated worn-out soils, made
possible the method of lea-
farming, and has resulted in
pastures being laid down in
areas with a rainfall of as low
as 12in. a year.
The greatest developments in
pasture have been in this
country. It is doubtful if
there is an established wheat-
farmer who does not look to
his wool and fat-lambs for the
greater part of his income,
(Continued on next page)


REGISTERED FLOCK No.
DIRRANBANDI
THALLOM
MO
ERINO
:
/
tfr
i\
d.
t'h , Arf.
&
Y,'
BOURKE
» fU
JUN.
U
• * V
*sy
» t.
Mogila Sheep have been bred by Major G. M. Richmond at Goodooga (14in. rainfall) for 46 years, from foundation stock
bred by his father, the late James Richmond, at Haddon Rig, Warren, and Gingie, Walgett.
Ram buyers may have their rams delivered on rail at Dirranbandi, Walgett, Brewarrina or Pokataroo.
For further particulars apply:—THE MANAGER, MOGILA STATION, GOODOOGA, N.S.W. ’Phone: Goodooga 4.
while some of them who are
in a larger way of business are
carrying more sheep than are
many stations in the pastoral
country.
The sheep of the State have
increased from 9,800,000 in
1946 to the present total of
15-million, and the whole of
this increase has taken place
in the agricultural areas, which
now carry 80 per cent, of the
sheep and grow 82 per .cent. of
the wool.
Each year another 500,000
acres of pastures is being laid-
down, and each year the sheep-
total increases by another
750,000 head, all of it in the
agricultural areas, and all of
it due to subterranean-clover.
It should be mentioned that
most of the credit for this is
due to the work done by
officers of the W.A. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, who, over
the years, have made invaluable
contributions to the State’s
economy by their development
of new and improved strains
of fodder-plants.
The Dwalganup strain of
subterranean-clover is. only
one of them ; the latest, and
one of the most important, is
the Currie variety of cocksfoot,
which lasts through the long
dry summers and remains green
for some six weeks after all the
other grasses and clovers have
dried-off.
The increasing amount of
interest that is being taken in
Western Australia and its
potentialities for the breeding
of livestock has been intensi-
fied by the publicity that has
been given to the development
of the Esperance Plains
country,
TTNDER an agreement with
the Government of W.A.,
the Chase Syndicate, of U.S.A.,
has taken-up an area of
1,500,000 acres on which it
expects to expend some £l2
million to £l5 million before
it is ready for subdivision and
sale. Already, 20,000 acres
have been ploughed and are
now being sown-down to pas-
ture, the basis of which is, in-
evitably, sUbfcerranean-clover.
Regarded as an agricultural
proposition, the Esperance
Plains area, in its natural state,
is about the most hopeless and
depressing stretch of country
in Westralia —and that is saying
a lot. A belt of country not
more than 25 miles deep from
the coast stretches, apparently
interminably, east and west.
It is only slightly undulating,
and grows nothing more than
stunted scrub: there is no
surface-water. The surface-
soil is sandy, and gives no in-
dication that it will ever pro-,
duce anything better than the
useless growth which it
supports.
Though the country around
Esperance Bay was taken-up
in the early 1860’s by settlers
from the original sheep-base
at Northam, there was no
expansion outwards. * Only in
the late 1920’s and early 1930's
did one or two (and only one
or two) hardy individuals
attempt some farming there.
The results did show that the
country was not so impossible
as it appeared to be. These
settlers did prove that clover,
and even crops, could be
grown, as well as excellent
vegetables, but little notice was
taken of their work; prices
were low, and the place was too
isolated from markets.
It was not until after the
war, some 10 years ago, that
any serious attempt was made
to test the plains country. The
Department of Agriculture
establishes a research-station to
test the area, and the results
were so encouraging that some
energetic individuals took-up
large holdings of land. They
were equally successful, and
the high post-war prices for
wool and livestock encouraged
further development.
The work so far done had
proved that the land was better
than its appearance indicated,
that it would grow a balanced
pasture of clovers and mixed
grasses from the outset, while
abundant supplies of fresh
water were obtained at a
shallow depth.
When the representatives of
the Chase Syndicate examined
the area, they were shown
four-year-old pastures which
had carried between four and
five sheep to the acre for a


/ 7^
j 9 C
\
"MS
r°.
10
m
rv^r*
MHO^
10
Specify "Fibrolite" Pipes and get real
economy and efficiency out of your
water supply system.
"Fibrolite" cannot rust or rot is
free from electrolytic action—un-
affected by water and the usual soil
elements.
Be sure of trouble-free water trans-
portation—lay your pipes the modern
way —lay "Fibrolite/ 7
What's more, "Fibrolite" pipes give a
host of other advantages over
conventional pipe material.
Available for immediate delivery in sizes
from 2i" to 15".
• Low internal friction gives high
delivery for lower pumping cost.
• Light in weight; handling and
laying time is cut.
• Economical to transport; trucks
can be loaded quickly—cartage
costs are reduced.
• Special rubber ring simplifies
jointing. '
• Prompt delivery.
Sole Manufacturers:
JANIES HARDIE & COY. PTY. LTD. -
Cnr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney
Box 3935, G.P.0., Sydney
Write now for free and post
f re e "Fibrol ite" Pipes
Booklet.
PB3
ARDIE'S
FIB ROUT E
Ttccv Mel 1
ASBESTOS-CEMENT
- - • • ~ ’ '' .
teSupply* andl.lrrigation
period of 12 months, a 340-
acre paddock which produced
a return of £l2 per acre from
wool and baby-beef alone, and
they probably inspected a line
of aged Merino ewes and
wethers which shore an aver-
age of 15.41 b. of wool which
sold at up to 104 d. a lb.
Fears have already been
expressed that the vast area
between Israelite Bay and
Albany will be so rapidly
developed that the sheep will
not be available to stock it.
The success already achieved
on the Fsperance Plains (with-
out any American assistance)
is sufficient to prove that the
future for woolgrowing in the
West is in the farming districts
—the sheep follow the plough.
WHERE there is woolgrow-
’’ ing there must be wool-
selling, and the woolbuyer has
always played an important, if
not always a popular, part.
The earliest woolgrowers
sent their wool to London for
sale and had to wait long
periods before they received
any return... The knowledge of
this must have induced some
enterprising individuals to enter
the trade as buyers: buyers,
of course, at a price that
would, in their opinion, cover
them for the risks they took.
There is no reason to suppose
that the men who bought
the wool in the West were any
more generous than their
counterparts in other States in
their time, but they served a
purpose. The wooigrower got
his money on delivery of ins
dip at a port, and, as he
doubtless said, "he knew where
he was.”
There was a big improve-
ment at some later but uncer-
tain period, when several
reputable firms entered the
business. They acted as agents
for overseas manufacturers,
and paid a price that was
somewhere near market-value.
Some of these old-established
firms are still operating and,
of re.cent years, their purchases,
mostly in the extreme south-
west of the State, where shear-
mg is late and sales by auction
are often long delayed, have
been reckoned at an annual
average of some 30,000 bales.
For many years most of the
pastoral wool was shipped
direct to London for sale.
Westralia differed again from
me eastern States in that the
auction sales conducted by the
woolbrokers did not start until
1920. The first sale was held
at Perth on December 20, 1920,
14,668 bales were offered.
For this, and the succeeding
sale, which was held in Febru-
ary, nearly all the wool seems
to have come from the pastoral
areas. Buyers appear to have
been very . selective, bidding
quite keenly for the best-quality
wool but neglecting the other
sorts.
Top price at the first sale
was 28d. for a line of Badga
station in the Murchison, the
property of Frank Wittenoom.
At the second sale the record
price for Western Australia was
obtained by A. C. Gilliam, of
Gabyon, who sold a line for
28±d.
The third sale, nearly all of
farmers’ lots, took place in
April. Prices were down by
40 per cent., and top price was
12|d. for a small line of
spinner’s fleece, 64-70’s, abso-
lutely free, and yielding about
54 per cent. Lincoln sorts sold
at or were passed in at 2d. It
is not surprising that, for many
years, there have been no
Lincolns in W.A.
Although catalogues at the
first series of auction-sales were
not well filled, it was not long
before growers realised the
advantages of auctions, and for
many years now practically all
the State’s wool has been sold
under the hammer in Perth.
This was the position until
the 1955-56 season, when there
was an increase in private buy-
ing. The usual average of
some 30,000 bales sold pri-
vately to the old-established
firms, who are regarded by the
trade as “legitimate,” did not
increase to any extent, but the
(Continued on next page)


NEWCASTLE LIMITED
ANNOUNCE THE RE-OPEN!NG
OF THEIR LOAN CALL
FOR ONE MONTH ONLY
This will be of special interest to late subscribers
whom the Company were unable to previously accept.
A limited amount will also be available to new
inv°«tors.
SHORT CALL LOANS
7i>
p.fl.
UP TO £5OO ON CALL
C5OO-ElOOO ON 21 DAYS CALL
{IN EXCESS BY ARRANGEMENT)
Interest paid quarteHy, free cf exchange
O
CONVERSION OF SHORT CALL LOAMS
If desired, after 6 months without call; the sum
loaned may be converted, for a further 6 monins’
fixed, making 12 months in all at 9 per cent. p.a.
Priority is given to depositors over snarenoioers
OFFICES FOR ENQUIRIES
NEWCASTLE:
H. & S. Credits (Newcastle)
Ltd., Hunter Street. B 4202.
R. M. Griffiths (Broker for
the purpose of the loan).
C/o Incorporated Finance &
Investments Pty Ltd., 468
Hunter Street, Newcastle.
B 3075
SYDNEY:
H. & S. Credits Pty Ltd.,
163 Clarence Street.
BX 1170, BX 16C3
Roy F. Turner, K H. Wilson
& Co. (Solicitor), JbO
George St BL 2766, BL 3292.
A. R. Shaw (Solicitor),
99 Pitt Street. BL 3081.
BANKERS:
The Commercial
Bank of Australia
Ltd., Civic Branch,
Newcastle.
AUDITORS:
Gibson & Davies,
26 O'Connell St.,
Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
Roy F. Turner, K
H. Wilson & Co.,
350 George Street,
Sydney.
Younghusband
Limited
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS
Buyers and sellers are invited to consult our
STUD STOCK DEPARTMENT
for the selection or sale of stock.
Fat and Store Stock Sales held at Newmarket by
L. A. FAIRBAIRN & CO.
Incorporated in Younghusband Limited
Registered Office:
137 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
YOUNGHUSBAND LIMITED
Registered Office:
94-96 KING STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branches Throughout Victoria and Riverina.
Sydney Representative:
D. L. O Sullivan, O Brien House, 56 Young Street, Sydney.
Teleph one: BU 6460, BU 2080.
Private: WM4144.
total sold outside of the
brokers’ floors went up by an-
other 20,000 bales. New buyers
were coming in.
Not much notice was taken
of this—perhaps not enough.
But the wool brokers and the
regular woolbuyers woke up
with a jerk when the present
season was halfway through
and it was found that some
100,000 bales had been
bought direct from the growers
and shipped overseas. By that
time the damage was done, and
the loss of a fifth of the total
wool-clip has wrecked the
latter half of the season’s sales.
Nothing like this has ever
happened in the eastern States:
it just goes to show that the
West is different.
"OEGARDLESS of what
happens so far as the sell-
ing of wool is concerned, it
can be seen that the future of
woolgrowing in the agricultural
areas of Westralia is bright.
But it is difficult to be very
optimistic about the future in
the pastoral country. In the
Gascoyne and Murchison, a
devastating drought has re-
duced flock numbers to such
an extent that the owner who
can count half his original
number of sheep considers
himself lucky: many are much
worse off, and the end is not
yet in sight.
This would not be so bad if
the country had any recupera-
tive power, but overstocking
and the lack of fencing and the
extra water-supplies that would
make controlled grazing pos-
sible have resulted in the
destruction of the most valu-
able fodd&r-plants, and in
many cases erosion has in-
creased the damage.
In the Kimberleys and Port
Hedland areas, the Department
of Agriculture, in conjunction
with station-owners, is doing
valuable work in bringing
eroded land back into produc-
tion by sowing buffel- and
birdwood-grasses on cultivated
strips. The results from this
are very promising, but do not
affect the outlook for wool-
growing very much, as the
sheep-population in those dis-
tricts is not large. ,
In parts of the eastern gold-
fields the position is much
brighter. Many properties,
through force of circum-
stances, have been very lightly
stocked since the depression,
and with the high prices for
wool since the war, their
owners are now in a good
position,
One of the most hopeful dis-
tricts is that around Wiluna.
Conditions there had deterior-
ated very badly, but several
station-owners have begun to
make use of the underground-
water supplies for irrigation,
The results from this have
been excellent, though the
work done so far is only on a
srn jdl scale,
The water is obtained at a
shallow depth, appears to be
inexhaustible in supply, and to
be spread over a wide area.
The further development of
irrigation in this district could
lead to a considerable increase
in carrying-capacity and much
b e tt er returns from wool and
, b
11 wiH be seen that all is not
i dea f j n t he Westralian wool-
growing industry, but the good
far outweighs the bad. There
is an awful lot of land in the
West> and much of that taken-
up j s no t half developed. In
the next 10 years Western Aus '
tralia appears likely to show a
greater increase in woolgrowing
than in any comparable area in
the world.


rugged man - of - the - West,
Wayne is as convincing as he is
resolute in his search; and
when he says, “That’ll be the
day!” you are inclined to
believe it will. In the role of
his high-spirited, half-Indian
hanger-on, Jeffrey Hunter is a
good foil. Ward Bond makes a
good character of a preacher-
cwm-Texas Ranger, and Natalie
Wood, in a brief appearance
as Wayne’s niece-turned-squaw,
is pretty enough to send any
Comanche warrior squawking.
Convincing Indians, together
with the scope and spectacle of
the background provided by
Technicolor and Vista Vision,
lend force to a good western.
❖ * *
“Cockleshell Heroes”
This, at Sydney Lyceum, is a
workaday war-time thriller
which might have been much
better than it is. Presumably
based on some sort of fact, it
concerns a small group of
British Marines trained as
canoeists by an American
major with the purpose of
penetrating the German
defences along the’Gironde to
blow up enemy shipping at
Bordeaux.
The best parts of the film
are in the feeling between the
American TJose Ferrer) and
his British executive officer
(Trevor Howard), an embittered
Marine captain who finally
goes on to a hero's death. Both
actors are sufficiently talented
to bring human feeling and
plausibility to the antagonism
between them over their respec-
tive ideas on the training of
men, and had the piece been
scripted at something better
than comic-strip level the early
training scenes with the
Marines being parachuted in
German uniforms into the
north of England with instruc-
tions to find their own .way
back to base—would have pro-
vided some credible human
comedy instead of incredible
slapstick.
The operation itself, losing
something in the picture-book
color of the scenes, is not with-
out suspense, though it would
have been better if the limpet-
mines, which blast the insides
out of steel merchantmen, had
not been shown earlier as
barely powerful ' enough to
split a canoe in half.
♦♦♦ ♦> ♦>
“Serenade”
In this musical at Sydney
Mayfair, in which Mario Lanza
makes a comeback after
having been on the outer for
a year or two, the James M.
Cain novel has been cut and
trimmed to fit the stock Holly-
wood pattern.
A “must,” of course, is that
the singer shall be “discovered”
singing in lowly circumstances
this case, in a San Fran-
cisco hash-foundry. Next, a
celebrated teacher who, with
the greatest reluctance, agrees
to yield a few priceless minutes
of his time for an audition
which will change quickly
from boredom to ecstasy on
recognising Heaven-sent talent.
That the singer at his debut will
do something dreadfully stupid
and threaten to wreck his
career almost before it starts
is yet another stereotyped
situation which must be borne
before the final vindication and
triumph.
All these plot-cliches are
faithfully followed in this
opus, in which an indifferent
sound-track at times makes a
greater hash of Lanza’s voice
than his erstwhile employer
made of his viands. His offer-
ings range from a couple of
the Alley's dredgiags to a host
of operatic excerpts, with
Schubert’s “Ave Maria” tossed
in for good measure, a very
artificial situation being con-
trived to allow him to sing it
in church. Lanza beefs every-
thing at top volume and with
sizzling emotion, and his acting
seems to consist of dilating his
eyes to register every emotion.
Joan Fontaine brings
serenity and a cool aloofness
to the role of a wealthy, cold-
hearted admirer who analyses
his proffered love with the
detachment of a scientist, then
pigeonholes it among her
interesting specimens. Sarina
Monteil is the warm litt’e
Mexican who rescues him
from the clutches of the siren
and saves his career. The most
natural note is struck by Vin-
cent Price as a patient and
mellowed impresario.
chose the latter c#urse, the con-
tract being terminated as from
September 30, 1954.
When it was decided in 1952
that there would be no further
building-up of the meat-
industry reserve-funds little
detailed thought had been given
to the employment of the funds
to operate a system of floor-
prices. By that time the fund
had a credit of over £4O million,
and though a portion of this
was to be used for investment
in projects beneficial to the
meat-industry the financial
backing for any system of
support-prices was substantial.
A S long as the system of bulk-
purchase lasted there was
little point in outlining a
scheme, as the pattern of a free
market would not be clear. In
1954 and 1955 further discus-
sions between representatives of
farmers’ organisations, the
Meat Board and the Govern-
ment resulted in introduction
of a satisfactory scheme, which
was given statutory effect by
the passage of the Meat Export
Trices Act.
Under the terms of this Act
a committee made up of
Government and producer
representatives will work out a
schedule of deficiency-pay-
ments at the beginning of a
season. If necessary the com-
mittee will fix each week a
schedule of deficiency-pay-
ments which may be made to
producers, the deficiency being
the difference between the
notified minimum-price and the
value in the week to which
the schedule relates.
These payments are to be
made out of the meat-industry
reserve-account, and the Meat
Board is responsible for
arranging payment —the farmer
sells his stock to a meat-
exporter and is paid by the
exporter, who in turn is
reimbursed by the board.
The world-wide demand for
meat is unlikely to slacken in
the immediate future, and
although the U.K. must remain
the principal market for New
Zealand an increased demand
can be expected from other
countries. This demand will be
stimulated by rising standards
of living, and in New Zealand’s
established markets will lead to
a keener inquiry for the better-
quality cuts.
New Zealand lamb, mutton
and chilled-beef have held their
own since the return to free-
marketing in Britain, and
under the stimulus of good
prices there has been tremen-
dous expansion of meat output.
An official estim ate
published by the New Zealand
Department of Agriculture in
1953 was that in 30 years New
Zealand would need to increase
her output from primary
industry by about 60 per cent,
to meet domestic and export
requirements. In the last two
years New Zealand meat-
exports have risen by 20 per
cent. This season, mainly
because farmers are holding on
to their lambs for breeding, and
on account of high wool-prices,
some decline from last year’s
record export of 412,000 tons
is expected.
Much of the increased out-
put is the result of production-
drives sponsored by the New
Zealand Meat Producers’
Board, which is investing over
£2 million in new fertiliser- and
freezing-works and has lent
£250,000 to the aerial-farming
industry to enable it to convert
to modern planes.
T>Y means of aerial-topdress-
ing, followed now by
aerial-fencing and -weedspray-
ing, New Zealand has moved
right to the forefront in
modern agricultural develop-
ment. Pasture-research is vastly
improving yield from grasses
and setting New Zealand
grassland-farming techniques
well ahead of those in other
countries. These techniques
have been the subject of study
by experts from many parts of
the world.
The general improvement in
standards of farm-management
and in animal-husbandry, and,
in particular, the effects of
aerial top-dressing, must bring
about a very big increase in
livestock numbers, which in
turn must lead to an increase
in meat-production. Plans are
in train to expand all the
ancillary services that are
essential if the best use is to be
made of this estimated increase
in production. Transport
services will have to be
improved, harbor facilities
developed, new freezing-works
and fertiliser -works
constructed.
New Zealand has evolved the
ideal type of lamb for the
United Kingdom trade. It is
the Southdown-Romnev cross.
Such is the even quality, and
so reliable is the grading under
standards laid down by the
Meat Board, that lambs are
bought in J ond'm by telephone
—a fair measure of the confid-
ence of the buyer.
A reliable product has been
promoted extensively for many
years in advertising campaigns
conducted by the Meat Board
throughout the United
Kingdom. This year New
Zealand lamb is appearing on
television at peak hours, and
there is an enormous support-
ing-programme, using every
advertising and public-relation
medium.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Credit-restrictions
In the papers, on street-
corners, in hotels, at com-
pany meetings and in
many other places where
men gather together curtail-
ment of credit is blamed for
falls in profits, turnover, slack-
ness in the building-trade and
so forth.
In spite of these arguments
for expanded credit, however,
there is still room and a
definite place for the man who
sets off with the object of
accumulating a little capital
each year until his assets reach
considerable proportions.
I have been closely associ-
ated with many phases of
business for nearly 40 years,
and I know that many trades-
men, backyard manufacturers,
farmers and others who have
made good started from scratch
and used very little or no
credit in making their way.
Opportunity still awaits this
type, and new arrivals to Aus-
tralia are making use of it.
Old Australians seem too
anxious to borrow, which, in
many cases, leads to waste and
inefficiency. They need con-
vincing that the answer to
many business problems is not
in increased borrowing but in
sane and prudent management,
increased production, care with
machinery and plant and good
workmanship.
Many proposals for advances
presented to banks are poor
risks, and much of the loose
talk about credit difficulties
comes from these people.
When the individual effort of
each member of the com-
munity is adequate, then true
progress will be made without
leaning so much on lending-
institutions. C. B. M.
(N.S.W.).
Australian Roads
Some weeks ago the Aus-
tralian Advisory Council
announced a national roads-
policy for Australia, but little
agreement seems to have been
reached about meeting the cost,
which was estimated at more
than £l6OO million over a 10-
year period over all States.
It was pointed out that road-
transport moves about 76 per
cent, of the tonnage of goods
moved annually in Australia.
The increase in traffic-density
and in heavy road-transport is
emphasising deficiencies in the
width and strength of roads,
bridges, etc., many of which
were constructed years ago to
standards below those necessary
for present and anticipated
traffic.
The only suggestion
advanced for raising additional
funds is that the Federal Con-
stitution be amended to permit
road-licence fees to be imposed
on inter-State hauliers. This is
only tinkering; with the
problem. The amounts raised
by licence-fees would be quite
insignificant. The licence-fees
previously proposed but
declared unconstitutional would
have returned even less revenue
because they would have killed
inter-State haulage of goods.
They appeared designed to
prevent competition with rail
rather than to raise revenue.
Surely roads are a State
function and, if more finance
must be provided, the State
Governments should ask those
who benefit particularly by
good roads to pay for them.
Provision and maintenance of
roads create and maintain land-
values. The proposed costly
road-projects will increase land-
values everywhere. The
increase will be greater in
terminal cities and towns than
in the country.
Each State should impose a
“main roads rate” upon un-
improved land-values over the
whole State. There is an
N. S. Wales precedent.
Road-hauliers would pay a
fair proportion under this plan,
but they would pay it on their
depots instead of their actual
vehicles. These depots occupy
fairly extensive and valuable
land in cities and towns. Non-
property owners are already
paying their share of land-
values in rent. — Fragmos
(Vic.).
A New Political Party?
In yearning after “a party
with real Labor ideals” (B.
24/4/’57), Jas. Macansh sees
salvation in a new platform
for Labor. The party he seeks,
however, has been in existence
for years, and is called the
Liberal party. The Libs, may
well say to Mr. Macansh, “You
name it, we’ve got it!”
Following the items raised, it
is well known that the Libs,
are anti-Communist. They are
obviously a workers’ party, for
they have faithfully, right up
to this day, perpetuated every
major legislation passed by
Labor and even introduced a
few more pet Labor ideas not
previously debated. They be-
lieve somewhat in “little capi-
talists” owning homes (so long
as they don’t want a loan to
build and don’t want to start
a small business). They
believe in profit - sharing,
particularly if the Taxation
Department gets most of it.
They are as Socialist as Mr.
Macansh could wish for, and
as safe, for they know too
well that politicians who
follow last longer than those
who innovate.
The Labor party, as we
know it, can never be revived.
It was a spent force by 1920
at the latest. Its* unnatural
association with Communism,
which commenced about that
time, indicated approaching
senility. Even had it rejected
Communism and Socialism it
was finished as a real and vital
political force. Time had
passed it by—it had been
unable to adapt itself, and the
grim law of survival thus
ensured Labor’s ultimate end.
That this end was first high-
lighted over 30 years later with
Dr. Evatt’s part in the Petrov
inquiry is not important,
except to note that the unthink-
ing Labor voter was finally
■ forced to evaluate his vote. He
could no longer dodge the issue
so successfully evaded in the
past; he had to decide whether
a vote for Labor was a gain
for Communism. The result-
ing decision of the Labor voter
has sounded the death-knell of
Labor as a party, for no longer
was justice not being done, it
was not even appearing to be
done.
Now history is repeating
itself. We find the Liberal
party unable to adapt itself to
the demands of the new era
dawning for Australia. All its
thinking is old and stodgy, as
was Labor’s in the ’twenties.
No longer a virile party, but
merely basking in the belated
fruits of its labors, it may
only now decline, for there is
no virility extant —it is success-
ful while being impotent.
We do need a new party.
And since there is only one
function for any political party
—that it must oppose—this
new party must be opposed to
the present Government, which
is the Liberal party.
Conceding that, We know
that a new party must be anti-
Socialist, must be truthfully
for / private enterprise, and
must be pro-Australian in the
fullest sense. Taxation which
restricts business-development
or inhibits extra work by
taxing overtime can be highly
anti-national. The new party
must be concerned with incen-
tives in order to develop our
land at maximum speed and
to hold it.—D. G. C. (N.S.W.).
Pensions guid Policies
Few topics have provoked
more uninformed and ill-con-
sidered discussion than the
economic welfare of pensioners
and other elderly citizens. Con-
sequently the announcement
that one of the G.M.-H.
research fellows is to investi-
gate this field comes as a
welcome surprise.
Our modern conception of
social security has far out-
stripped the basic principle of
providing the minimum
essentials for the aged and the
“But, yes, We have no Bwanas...."


invalid, but no economist has
yet advanced a practicable
’national superannuation
scheme. While such a scheme
mush inevitably be financed by
higher taxation it would appear
that this would not be sufficient
without some redistribution of
government expenditure at the
expense of national defence
arid development.
In practice the growing
number of private superannua-
tion schemes will help to reduce
the number in necessitous cir-
cumstances. However, if it is
government policy to rely on
and foster such schemes some
special concessions should be
given to the self-employed and
other valuable members of the
community who can neither
take advantage of such schemes
nor, while taxation is so puni-
tive, accumulate sufficient
reserves to look forward to
their later years with confi-
dence.— MacD (Vic.).
Japan
To that well-documented
article on Japan (B. 8/5/’57)
—which I have read with very
great interest—l should like to
add the correction that Japan’s
annual increase in population
is now estimated at one-
million and not, as the article
stated, four-million.—l. Tsuge,
Consul of Japan, Sydney.
Foreign Doctors
“Henri le Cheval” (B.
17/4/’57) is right when he says
that Australian doctors are
agitatgd over easing restric-
tions on the admission to prac-
tice of foreign doctors. The
Medical Practitioners’ Act sets
up standards for registering
doctors, and a Medical Regis-
tration Board to see that
a Ppli c a n t s meet those
standards, which have been
devised to insure that sick
persons shall receive medical
attention of the best possible
quality.
This is most essential in
Australia, where so much of
the population receives its
treatment from general-prac-
titioners who have to be able
to deal competently with
medical, surgical and obstetri-
cal emergencies off-hand. It
is the emergencies that matter,
since for the more deliberate
cases there is time to seek con-
sultations or to remove the
patients to big hospitals
where costly equipment and
specialised care are available.
He is a good doctor who
knows his own limitations and
is willing to seek help early.
It is also true {hat the
ordinary’ general - practitioner
of today is not so good an
all-rounder as his counterpart
of 50 years ago—then, medi-
cine covered a simpler, much
narrower field. Today no one
man can cover the greatly
widened and complicated range
of even everyday medicine, and
only the benefits of fast trans-
port make it possible to get
special treatment which the
g.p. cannot be expected to
provide.
Nevertheless, Aus t r a lian
g.p.s are regarded overseas with
great respect, and even admira-
tion. A few—generally the
older and more tired—do leave
more and more to the
specialists and may be letting
their skill rust away, but these
are not in the smaller country
towns. In these parts compe-
tition is too keen, and there
are no “flocks of pensioners”
to keep doctors comfortable
financially—only in the suburbs
of the big cities can that
happen.
From here on “Henri le
Cheval” gets into deep water.
His gibe about how they love
the word doctor, “despite only
an M.B. degree,” is unworthy
—this is a courtesy title, useful
and descriptive, and sanctioned
by some hundreds of years’
usage. And is it “lazy” to
desire to have a weekend off?
Then “Henri” states that
“once they get their licence to
practise (with the barest mini-
mum university degree) there
is no subsequent compulsory
test of their skill”; that there
is “a general lowering of
standards in a large proportion
of the profession”; that “many
of them are by no means equal
to the foreign doctors whom
their association is so keen on.
limiting to men in the top
rank” ; and that “some outside
competition could do a lot of
good.” That’s all nonsense.
The “barest minimum uni-
versity degree” in Australia is
conferred only after the
students have attended speci-
fied lectures, classes and
demonstrations of a specified
number and duration, and have
passed examinations in all sub-
jects at a specified standard —
and the standards are high
(there are none higher in the
world) for the very reason
that there is no practicable way
of compulsorily testing their
skill later.
There is an agreement with
British, New Zealand and
South African universities, and
with certain Canadian, United
States and European uni-
versities, that these standards
and specifications shall always
be maintained ; thus graduates
of all such universities may
“See you tomorrow!”
have their medical qualifica-
tions registered in any of the
agreeing countries.
Most foreign medical schools
have courses that are either
much shorter or much less
comprehensive, and degrees
from their universities are
therefore not acceptable for
registration in Australia. It is
possible, however, for gradu-
ates of such medical schools to
make up the deficiencies in
their training by completing
the required extra courses at
an Australian medical school
and passing the required extra
examinations.
•• Foreign doctors who meet
Australian standards can be
registered without any diffi-
culty. “Henri” cannot at the
same time sneer at the Aus-
tralian “barest minimum uni-
versity degree” and also state
that many of its holders are
not equal to the foreign
doctors who cannot meet that
barest minimum, or suggest
that such foreign doctors can
offer any real competition.
Australia has far too many
specialists in all branches of
medicine—not many of such
high standing as the average
British specialist, but still
good. What is needed is a
supply of good g.p.s for
isolated country centres, and
resident medical officers for
certain hospitals. It cannot be
denied that many of the foreign
doctors under discussion
possess a high degree of
specialised skill, but these are
not the men to meet Aus-
tralia’s real needs. However,
because they are experienced
doctors already, they should
have little difficulty in coping
with the extra studies needed
to qualify them in the broader
fields that Australian registra-
tion demands.
It is said that the main
reason (indeed, it should be the
only valid reason) that chey
cannot put in these studies is
lack of finance. Why, then,
cannot the Government subsi-
dise them for the time they
need to become registrable?
Alternatively, if the standards
for foreigners are to be
lowered, why not lower the
standards for Australian
medical students, too? Then
we would have hundreds more
Australian “doctors,” and
there would be no need to
import the foreigners.
’Ermit (N.S.W.).


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
It has been a week of ballet-talk,
Margot Fonteyn and —little girls! All over
town the girls were to be seen, enraptured
smiles on their faces, autograph-books in
their hands ; schoolgirls in black stock-
ings, teenagers with pony-tail hair-dos,
tiny girls in velveteen dresses and circlets
of flowers on their heads, all ballet-mad
and eager to catch a glimpse of Margot
Fonteyn.
And Margot Fonteyn was everywhere
—at a reception given by Lord Mayor
Jensen (here the lucky little girls to meet
her were Mrs. E. C. O’Dea’s grand-
daughters Kerri and Joanne); at the
special race-meeting in aid of St. Vincent’s
and Royal Prince Alfred’s hospital-
appeals, where she wore the Dior suit of
green jersey with its folded chiffon blouse
and sprig of lily-of-the-valley (the suit
now recognised as “most likely to
succeed”) ; at the afternoon-tea party at
David Jones’, where, as president of the
Royal Academy of Dancing, she spoke
for 20 minutes; at the Margaret Reid
Hospital for Crippled Children, to which
she paid a private visit on Sunday ; and,
of course, at the fabulous gala opening on
Saturday night.
Everywhere her wide smile was
admired, her clear, light voice, her grace-
ful walk. And, of course, her clothes were
noted with care. Dressed by Dior, she
always looks elegant, whether in a black
A-line coat over a high-necked dress,
worn with a simple pillbox-hat of aqua
chiffon, in a beige-and-black spotted dress
with a beige rose tucked into the waist,
in a scoop-neck dress of grey-and-white
plaid with its matching cap, in the cut-
away green jersey suit or in the beautiful
black faille dress, bell-shaped and dipping
to the floor at the back, in which she
took curtain-calls on the opening night.
This opening night was certainly a gala
function. With the tickets at five-guineas
each, apparently everyone decided to do
honor to the occasion, and dressed-up in
satin and sparkles accordingly. There
were several sweeping opera-cloaks to be
seen, one in red-and-gold brocade, one in
silver lamd sprinkled with diamente. One
woman wore gold-brocade gloves, another
stuck diamente to the tips of her pink-
tinted curls.
There were quite a few little girls
present, having the treat of their lives and
really making the most of it. Lady Tait,
who wore white satin embroidered with
pearls and crystal, brought her three
young daughters along, Isla and Anne in
white dresses with red velvet coats, Sally
in pale-blue with a short blue cape edged
with fur. In the box opposite, little Kerry
Parry-Jones looked like a doll in a box
with her tiered embroidered organdie
dress. In the front row of the dress-
circle one noted particularly Mrs. James
Laurie, tall, handsome and dramatic. She
is singer Rosina Raisbeck, and is the
wife of the organiser of this ballet-tour.
Red seemed to be the color of the
evening, many of the most striking
ensembles being in red and white, with the
spectacular scarlet costumes worn by New
Zealanders Rowena Jackson and Bryan
Ashbridge dominating the show, just as
their dancing thrilled and excited the
audience.
* ☆ ☆
Mr. Ernest Burbridge gave an enthral-
ling talk on Shakspeare’s tragedies at the
luncheon which the Royal Empire Society
tendered to him and to Mrs. Burbridge
during the week. The Burbridges, who
have been a great asset to social life in
Sydney and Canberra during their sojourn
here as representatives of the British
Council, leave this week for England,
whence they will set off after a few weeks
for a new appointment in Jamaica.
This is Barbara Toy, who leads an
enviable life, vagabonding the world and
writing books. She has arrived in Sydney,
her home town, in her trusty Land-Rover,
which has carried her solo through North
Africa, the Libyan Desert, Saudi Arabia,
and now across Australia. Her books,
beginning with “A Fool on Wheels," and
continuing to her latest, “A Fool Strikes
Oil” (which has a strong topical interest),
relate the happenings of these journeys,
and in their humor and vitality are a
reflection of Barbara Toy’s own vivid
personality. Barbara has close ties with
The Bulletin, as her father, the late
Bert Toy, was a member of its literary
staff and the first editor of “The Woman’s
Mirror”; her sister was its first “Sister
Sadie.” This is Barbaras first visit home
for 20 years, and during that time she has
been actress ("the world’s worst,” so she
says), successful stage-manager, producer,
play-doctor (this was when she got the
urge to write herself), radio and TV star,
traveller and author.
Empire Night has definitely become
Cracker-night. The children know it by
no other name, and one can hardly expect
them to call it Commonwealth of
Nations Night. The city is divided into
two factions about this cracker-night,
one upholding the joy and excitement it
gives to the children, the other cam-
paigning against it because of the fire-
risk. This Letter comes in on the side of
the children. After all, one can surely
guard one’s property against sparks on
one night of the year, if it gives so much
pleasure to so many.
The Royal Empire Society celebrated
Empire Night with a buffet-dinner, fol-
lowed by films. Mr. Ivan Black, M.L.A.,
president of the R.E.S., and Mrs. Black
welcomed the guests, who included repre-
sentatives of all Commonwealth countries.
v # v
The cast of “The Diary of Anne
Frank” came down to Prince’s after the
show for the Independent Theatre Ball;
Elizabeth Waterhouse, the talented 15-
year-old star, looking very charming in
a short dress of burnt-apricot velvet. Miss
Doris Fitton and Mrs. Douglas Anderson
greeted the official guests, among whom
were Dr. and Mrs. H. C. Coombs.
CANBERRA
Before her departure with the
Governor-General for a month’s stay in
Melbourne, Lady Slim attended the open-
ing night of Canberra Repertory Society’s
presentation of “The Man Who Came to
Dinner.” A full house enjoyed the
comedy. One couldn’t help admiring the
distinguished and well-groomed natural
beard of Grant Mclntyre, as well as his
acting in the lead-part of Sheridan
Whiteside. The. play, one of Repertory’s
most successful this year, was produced
by Anne Godfrey-Smith, with stage-
settings by Hilary Wrigley.
☆ ☆ ☆
To welcome Dr. Bernice Cronkhite,
from America, a reception w;as given at
the Embassy residence by Mrs. Avery
Peterson, wife of. the American Charge
d’Affaires. Dr. Cronkhite, Dean of the
Radclilfe School of the U.S.A., and vice-
chairman of the Board of Foreign
Scholarships, is on a world tour under
the auspices of the U.S. Department of
State, to make a study of foreign scholar-
ships. Among the guests were members
of the Canberra Association of Women
Graduates, including Mrs. J. Bok, wife of
the Commonwealth Astronomer; the
first president, Mrs. R. J. Tilyard, and
her daughter Mrs. R. N. Wardle. Also
noted Senator Agnes Robertson, of
Perth. Dr. Cronkhite, who wore an
elegant short frock in black lace, later
addressed a meeting of the Graduates’
Association at University House.
V V V
Empire Day was celebrated by the
Victoria League with an afternoon-party


given by the president and committee at
Lawley House. An arrangement of lovely>
autumn flowers decorated the mantel of
the reception-room, where a huge log-fire
blazed. President, Mrs. J. K. Lawrence,
wearing a smart suit which featured a
shawl collar in soft brown, and matching
toque in fur velour, introduced the guest-
speaker, Mr. D. M. Cornett, of the
Canadian High Commission. In his talk
on his country and its people Mr. Cornett
said: “What with Canadians busy being
British in London and American in
Washington, people are apt to wonder
what are Canadians?” Everyone wore a
smart hat, but one that caught the eye was
Mrs. Cornett’s ruby-red velour toque
worn with her slate-grey suit. Visiting
members were the president of the New-
castle branch of the league, Mrs. Charles
Dean, and Lady Greaves, formerly of
Canberra.
MELBOURNE
In Lieut. - Governor Sir Edmund
Herring’s absence through illness, Lady
Herring, assisted by her two daughters
(Mrs. Donald Longfield and Margaret
Herring), hostessed at a reception at
Government House to the Governor-
General and Lady Slim.
Lady Slim wore a full-skirted cocktail-
frock in iridescent-blue silk-poult. Two
flat bows below the waist held the fullness
at the back of the skirt, and the bodice
featured a draped neckline in front and
a deep V at the back. With it she wore
a dyed-ermine stole. Lady Herring’s
choice was a frock of aqua-blue silk-
shantung, the skirt finely pleated with a
drape in front drawn to one side and
falling gracefully from waistline to hem.
The State drawing-room, where guests
were received, was beautifully decorated
with arrangements of shaded hydrangeas
and chrysanthemums. Smaller bowls of
mixed roses and many-hued poppies were
set on the small tables.
Among the guests were the Premier
and Mrs. Bolte, she wearing a cocktail-
frock of black silk-taffeta (cut on sheath-
lines, but with a fully-pleated flounce
forming the hemline), and a small black
hat finished with a black taffeta rose ;
Chief Secretary Arthur Rylah and Mrs.
Rylah ; the Lord Mayor (Cr. Sir Frank
Selleck) and Lady Seileck ; Acting Chief
Justice of Victoria Sir Charles Lowe and
Lady Lowe ; and Chief Justice of Aus-
tralia Sir Owen Dixon arid Lady Dixon.
v V
Cranlana, the lovely Toorak home of
Mrs. Sydney Baillieu Myer, will be the
official residence of the Governor-
General, Field-Marshal Sir William Slim,
and Lady Slim for the four weeks they
will spend in this city. Government
House is being redecorated while Sir
Dallas and Lady Brooks are in England
on holiday. The Governor-General and
Lady Slim will give a reception on June
13 in honor of the Queen’s birthday, and
on June 6 Sir William (health permitting)
will hold an investiture.
While the Governor-General and Lady
Slim are in residence at Cranlana, Mrs.
Baillieu Myer will be at her seaside home
in Sorrento.
After five years overseas with her hus-
band, Bobby Limb, Dawn Lake has
returned to star with him in the new show
at the Tivoli. Well known as nightclub
entertainers before leaving for abroad,
both have been working in London and
on the Continent. A daughter, Deborah,
was born while her parents were in
England.
Among the many functions to celebrate
Empire Day the members of the Victoria
League in Victoria held a luncheon in
their clubrooms, and later the Young
Contingent of the league had a cocktail-
party. Pamela Middleton, Barbara
Hewitt, Bruce Beck and John Koschade*
received the guests. The Overseas League
had a cocktail-party at Overseas House,
in Toorak-road, at which, in the absence
of president Brigadier A. E. Brown (who
is in Tokyo), secretary Tom Hudson
received the guests. Wing-Commander
W. J. Swan, who was accompanied by
Mrs. Swan, proposed the loyal toast.
The Junior Section of the Royal Empire
Society celebrated Empire Day with their
annual Snow Ball, held at 9 Darling-street,
South Yarra. The 350 guests were
greeted with a snow-covered fir-tree, while
in the foyer was a very jaunty Snow Man
surrounded by snow and frosted trees.
Graeme Whitelaw, president of the sec-
tion, with Michael Hancock, Barbara
Bruce and Felicity Harber, received the
guests. Among the dancers were Lenore
Callaghan, whose attractive frock was of
junior-blue Chantilly-lace cut on tunic-
lines and finished at the hem with a deep
flounce of pleated nylon-tulle. Jenny
Murch wore a short, full-skirted frock
of white silk-organza highlighted with a
wide pink satin sash. Mrs. Peter
Tremayne, who was with her husband
(a former president of this group of young
people), looked charming in a short frock,
with an off-shoulder bodice of olive-green
satin ; Robin Paterson chose a frock of
ice-blue taffeta, and Felicity Harber’s
choice was a white-spotted nylon frock.
Camp Capers, the annual ball held by
members of Power House, was a very
gay affair, with nearly 1000 guests present.
Proceeds go to the Power House
Memorial Overseas Scholarship fund.
The Lord Somers coat-of-arms, painted
by committee-members Jenny Forster and
Duncan Fraser, was used as a backdrop
behind the official table (Lord Somers
was the founder of Somers Camp and
Power House).
Receiving the guests were Lieut.-Col.
R. H. Rhoden (who is camp chief and
was also chairman of the ball committee)
and Mrs. Rhoden, she wearing a gown
of grey tulle mounted on pink. They
were assisted by Lieut.-Col. Stewart
Embling and his sister Molly. In the
foyer of the Royale Ballroom was a large
model of the Lord Somers camp at
Somers, a seaside resort. Elizabeth
Dowdney, Joe Christian and Jim
McGlashan were ticket-secretaries and
also present were Mr. and Mrs. W. King
(he is president of the sportsmen's
committee).
* ☆ *
Janet, eldest daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
J. K. Sides, of Hay (N.S.W.), was a lovely
radiant bride when she was married at
St. John’s Church, Toorak. For her
gown, Janet chose a French-satin brocade
cut on classical lines, her long tulle veil
held with a circlet of silver leaves. She
carried a bouquet of long-stemmed white
roses. The three bridesmaids, Dierdre
Clarke (Hay), Prue Dodd and the bride’s
sister, Mary, were frocked alike in full-
length gowns of white French-silk-
organza and wore half-circlets of white
hyacinths in their hair. They carried
posies of w'hite hyacinths. The bride-
groom, the only son of Mr. and Mrs.
J. D. Langley, of Hay, had Douglas
Faulkiner as best man.
Receiving guests at the reception at
9 Darling-street Mrs. Sides chose a gown
of orchid-green duchesse-satin, the long,
graceful skirt finished with a bustle-bow.
Her tiny petal cap was of pink satin
shot with green. Mrs. Langley’s choice
was a gown of deep-brown faille
embroidered with a gold motif. At the
wedding was the bride’s grandmother,
Mrs. E. Beames (Sydney), who chose a
gown of black French crepe and small
black hat. Mr. and Mrs. H. K. Nicholas
came from Moree (N.S.W.) to be at
Janet’s wedding.
☆ ☆ ☆
Members of St. Vincent’s Hospital
Younger Set met at a luncheon at the
Hotel Australia to discuss plans for their
“Come to the Casbah” Ball, scheduled
for June 6 at the Royale Ballroom. The
clever invitations were designed by
committee - member Genivieve Cody.
Among those at the luncheon were
president Susan Allan, vice-president
Dorothy McEncroe, secretary Judith
Burns, treasurer Prue Shillabeer and
Margaret Mary Collins, Ann Harrison
and Anne Shelton. Tickets may be
obtained from Diane McNeill (JX3265),
Jane Allan (8M2914) and Anne Shel-
ton (MW9911).


sit; Alge leant against the
bookcase, and Bernie flew from
Paris to Cannes, touched
Monaco and the Wedding, and
hurtled away to London,
Hurlingham (polo), Wimbledon
(tennis), the Savoy (the Grill),
Claridges (visiting-Royalty).
The rubber-balls grew
larger, more colorful ; Bernie
began to tell stories.
“Mean to say the one about
the shaggy, shaggy gnu hasn’t
penetrated here, yet?”
After the fifth, the men were
slapping their thighs and roar-
ing, and even Ron was utter-
ing distressful, throaty noises
that signified amusement. The
women were in an ecstatic
state of near-hysteria.
AT length, Chrissie, wiping
her eyes, announced
supper. Alge fingered the
folded paper in his pocket;
now, he thought, now, at last,
he would recapture the triumph
so shamelessly filched by
Bernie.
They were spooning up
shocking-pink ice-cream by the
time someone noticed that
Matt Mudd was still in his
chair by the lounge fire, fast
and noisily asleep.
“Thank goodness!” cried
Chrissie. “Now we needn’t
listen to any crazy, mixed-up
speeches! Bernie—you pro-
pose the toast to Alge.”
“But,” began Alge, “Unk
Matt really should.”
But Bernie was already
standing in the middle of the
dining-room, grins flowing
over his red face, and melting
into it.
“Dear ladies, and chaps,
accustomed as I am to. public
speaking, I’ll make it short.
Bottoms-up to Mira - cool
Murky, alias Alge, our guest-
of-honor tonight!”
Applause and laughter
crackled and rose. Alge ack-
nowledged it, shaking clenched
hands above his head. Within
him rage and frustration
boiled. Unk Matt might have
been vague, but he would have
given the guest-of-honor a
traditional eulogy, a fitting lead
for a modest, graceful reply.
Bernie had reduced the occa-
sion to a farce.
Alge cleared his throat; it
was for him to reinstate him-
self against fearful odds.
“Ladies and gentlemen,” he
began, and paused to smile
modestly, and gain his audi-
ence’s full attention.
Into the pause leapt Bemie’s
full, round baritone:
“For He’s a Jolly Good
Fellow!”
It was immediately taken up
by the women’s shrill, breathy
piping, and the men’s off-key
bumble.
They sang loudly and happily
—Chrissie because, for the first
time in her life, she was
hostessing a successful party,
and the others because they
were enjoying themselves so
unexpectedly—they had for-
gotten for whom they were
supposed to be singing, and
why.
A LGE looked down at the
piece of paper in his
hand. Then he screwed it up
and dropped it on a dish, where
il la Y among plundered cray-
fish-claws and limp strands of
lettuce.
When everyone finished
singing and laughing, they
surged into the lounge to watch
Bernie do a thought-reading
trick with Mona Beeling;
Alge, alone in the dining-room,
sucked in his cheeks, rolled up
his eyes, drew the ball of his
thumb across his tongue, and
slashed the wet thumb across
an imaginary slate.
THE WAVES
Together in our lonely lusts we rise
the separate breakers of our seas and fall
upon two different shores : and it was always
thus. The oceans only in our thighs
become a place we both shall recognise
before the tides’ and winds’ inevitable
conquest —and even in this calm we stumble
and are lost before we realise
we ever had been one.
A nd breaking on
our crumbling shores again we find only
the broken shells and seaweed of
that moment and know that we shall pound upon
only our own heart’s lonely territory
forever grief and desolate with love.
QUEENSLAND.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 436
Across
I—Egat’s behind the scenes. (9)
6—Skin blemishes turned the undressed holy-man into
mattress filling. (5)
9 —Turned in a fish bird’s influential Pharisee. (9)
10 — Collection of canon law poetry in 110 fish with a former
spouse cipher to kiss. (5)
11 — Robin slum is disturbed by louts. (8)
13—About a color setback. (6)
16 — Dexmised is wrongly listed in the
table of pointers at the back of
the book. (10)
17— Rode into a European river. (4)
19 —Inscription on Otto’s present car
warning. (4) .
21 —Finally the favorite car-body is
rearranged early as floor-covering.
(4, 6)
24 — State act in the Tivoli skylight
took a seat on an ash-container.
(6)
25 — Users not appearing in the
trousers belonging to an N.S.W.
father of quads according to
Mozart’s High Priest of Isis. (8)
27 Cook as in bunk. (5)
28 — This month with the crooker
infuser is not out yet against
her Majesty. (9)
29 — The willow-stem humorist he is
after. (5)
30— Foresters pay this fee well in
front of 1-across. . (9)
Down
1 — Crooked Africans who subscribe
to Jeremy’s doctrine of utility. (11)
2 Blacks appear after business in
such cases. (7)
3 Team which is tall but oblique. (8)
4 One in the morning—prepare to
have a careful shot. (3)
5 It’s a tie if honors are a midship-
man, (4)
6 Punched in hose. (6)
7 Crimson duck and the United
Nations coppers sent back by the
reaction. (7)
8— Swell sealer. (3)
12 —My Spanish article on the spinal
cord. (6)
14—The hors d’oeuvre makes the
premier run like a dog. (5, 6)
15—Any trees appearing during the
decade? (3, 5)
18—Birds tin mutton? (8)
20—Pariah dismissed actors of a
stage-show. (7)
22—Kneecap girl .is on strike. (7)
23—Squirm if he is after a legal
document. (6)
26—Turn it up fortissimo to cause a
row. (4)
27—Sound squabble. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 435


slock, clustered on the other
mound (so far never sub-
merged), where the sheep,
cattle and the eleven horses
have been herded together for
safety.
One year the owner and his
wife, the German maid and the
married couple in the cottage
were completely cut off by
water which stretched in every
direction as far as the eye
could see. Then the native
animals made their way to the
homestead rise, or to the
hillock where the stock were
marooned.
. The owner has waged so cun-
ning a war against the rabbit
that, without the aid of myxo-
matosis, there are none left on
his property; but there were
hares, ringtail-possums, water-
rats and snakes, all running,
scuttling, or slithering to safety.
The snakes were the worst.
In these parts they are usually
brown-snakes, dangerous and
unwelcome. Fortunately the
homestead and all the other
buildings are slightly raised
from the ground, so it is
unlikely they could enter the
house ; but it is disconcerting
to see them from a window, or
to watch one glide away as
you step from the door ; and
the owner and his offsider were
kept busy with appeals and
directions from their wives and
the German maid.
As well as the animals, there
were the birds. This property is
a declared sanctuary, and in
consequence seems to carry a
stupendous number of birds to
the acre. In the floods, when
there were only two pieces of
land showing, birds seemed to
be there in their millions.
The neighboring trees
—the big red river-gums,
the pines and sheoaks,
which still in the swirling
water outlined the true
course of the Lachlan —
were infested with screech-
ing, sulphur-crested cocka-
toos and grey-and-pink
galahs. There is no sight
more beautiful than these
birds, as they wheel in
unison in the sky, their wings
a vehicle for the sun’s golden,
shimmering rays. But there are
no birds more hated. In normal
times their continuous cry
seems to the angry settler’s ears
to float like a running-com-
mentary of doom and destruc-
tion, from the seed-beds in the
garden to the tender harvest in
the paddocks.
As well as the hawks, the
crows and the jays, the little
birds were there in their
thousands. Tree - creepers,
wrens and finches, the tiny
spotted pardalote (delicious bits
of feathered nonsense),
sparrows, peewees, quail and
swallows, running, climbing,
flying, swimming, at the dicta-
tion of their species. All these
came to the haven of the island.
The ducks and pelicans were
the happiest—if a pelican may
be said to be happy. They
are the most curious birds,
awkward and grotesque, with a
call like a high-pitched, hastily-
strangled hiccup. As they
lumbered about on the dead
branches of high trees, their
webbed feet surely uniquely
out of place, they looked
thoroughly ashamed of them-
selves till they flopped into the
seemly cover of the water,
when they fished to their hearts’
content and were happy. •
I have looked these birds up
in the bird-book, but nobody
else seems to think them as
strange as I do. They are, it
seems, so ordinary, so common
as to be no longer the
phenomenon they appeared to
be to my husband’s grand-
mother, Mary Hannay Foott.
She wrote, in a preface to a
poem, that the “unexplored
parts of Western Queensland
are sometimes spoken of as the
home of the pelican, a bird
whose nesting-place is seldom,
DAVID M. ARCHER ,
sketched when he came
down from Queensland to
have a look at the Sydney
Sheep Show last year. As
president of the Queens-
land Stud Merino Sheep-
breeders Association he
was naturally interested.
if ever, found.” But I
don’t think these birds
are so reticent.
The pattern of life
for the islanders in
time of flood sounds
like something out of
The Swiss Family
Robinson. The two
lllawarra Shorthorns
provide them with
milk, butter and
cream. Eggs, too,
they have, and some-
times a chicken. Meat
can be got from the
huddled stock and
brought across in the
rowing-boat, and most
groceries are stored in
some quantity in the house.
The homestead is not com-
pletely isolated. It is possible
to chug down to the utility at
the gate, and so go in to the
township. But these excursions
take time, and the household
is glad to avail itself of the
services of the nearest aero-
club, which, covers the air with
a swarm of busy “mercy
planes,” delivering mail and
bread and vegetables, as well as
any other necessities, whenever
they are needed.
When the waters recede, and
the floods subside, what sights
meet the owner’s eye!
His wheat ricks dispersed, his
corn-silo ruined,
Draggled the plumes of his
Brown Leghorn cockerel
From a floating hen-coop crow-
ing defiance.
Work must begin all over
again. Crops, sodden and
covered with silt from the
river, are ploughed into the
soil. No money this year from
the lucerne, no food from the
oats, no. harvest from wheat,
poor prices for stock. Stores
are mildewed, and the earth
dries to a hard, unflinching
crust. Snakes are everywhere,
and leeches cover the beaches
of the river, and cling to the
flesh of all who come their way.
The natural growth in this
district includes barley-grass,
trefoil and corkscrew-grass.
The seed of this f last has a
spear-head a quarter of an inch
long, attached to a blade which
curls up like a spring, forcing
it (when it lights on the fleece
of a sheep) through the depth
of the wool, piercing the skin.
Other weeds in this district
include Bathurst-burr, skeleton-
weed, and Patterson’s curse.
There are others, but these are
the worst. Smaller patches of
Bathurst-burr can be checked
with a hoe, but mostly these
weeds are best killed with a
spray of 2,4-D.
When these have been dealt
with, the land ploughed, and
perhaps replanted, the ’hoppers
DAVID BELL MIL-
THORPE, a Merino man
from the N.S.W. outer west
Jerilderie —who has been
very successful at reoent
Sydney Sheep Shows.
may appear to make more
work. Once a patch of them
has been found, the owner
waits for them to swarm, and
then sprays them.
The hours that the man on
the land must keep vary with
the seasons, but they are
always hard. Hired men, as a
rule, work as required at peak-
periods, but in general they
keep to eight hours a day, and
observe all regulation holidays.
In the Central West, how-
ever, as in all the hot parts of
Australia, it is often easier to
work by night, and rest in the
heat of the day.
Or, in the height of summer,
it may be better to harvest the
crops as quickly as possible.
In this case the man will use
the tractor (drawing a side-
delivery rake, or whatever
implement he is needing) in
his legitimate hours, the owner
taking over from him and
W'orking a nightshift.
At such times the owner may
be working anything from 12
to 14 hours at .a stretch. The
men may work, and often do,
long hours, too; but naturally
not as often as the owner, for
his is the care and his the
responsibility of the land.
They work hard for their
living—and sometimes their
wealth —but they strive to
enrich the soil they love.


simply as a “snake.” Basing-his essay
on Jonathan Curling’s “Janus Weather-
cock,” he has no new material to offer.
Arthur Orton, though the subject of
books and articles enough, has not so
recently been done-over, and, by an
analysis of the eight folio volumes of
the report of his trial, Mr. Aldington
does bring forcibly home to the reader
how fantastic was Orton’s claim. Had
not Roger Tichborne’s hysterical and
possibly malicious mother insisted on
“recognising” the butcher his imposture
would have had a very short run. One
letter to his mother by the genuine
Tichborne contrasted with one of
Orton’s should have been enough to
have settled the affair at once. Tich-
borne wrote, in some testiness:—
Another thing also, where I don’t
think you don’t at all treat me
fairly ; you treat me in your letters
exactly like as if I was twelve or
thirteen years of age, and moreover
as if I was quite incapable of taking
the least care of myself. I beg to
say that I am quite old enough to
take care of myself, and that I act
as circumstances require it.
And this, if somewhat ungrammatical
in the two “don’ts” and the use of
“like” for “as,” is very far removed
from the complete illiteracy of Orton’s
first letter to his “mother” from
Wagga:—
I deeply regret the truble and
anxsity I must have cause you by not
writing before.... In writing to me
please enclose your letter to Mr.
Gibbes to prevent unnesersery
enquiry as I do not wish any person
to know me in this Country. When
I take my proper position and title.
Having therefore made up my mind
, to return and face the Sea once
more I must request to send me
the Means of doing so paying a fue
outstanding debts . . .
Mr. Aldington also deals with T. J.
Wise, the forger of rare editions;
Maundy Gregory, who sold titles of
nobility; Dr. Grahame, who in the late
18th century kept a marvellous
Electric Bed, the fee to sleep upon
which for one night was a hundred
pounds; and, amongst a few others,
George Psalmanazar, the “Prince of
Formosa.”
They are an interesting collection,
and it is a fairly interesting book. But
Mr. Aldington—here, at any rate —
lacks the light touch of Norman
Douglas or Alexander Woolcott to
bring charm and humor into his book,,
and hardly makes more than rather
laborious journalism of it.
A. R. D. Fairburn
The man in the street might have
been forgiven for mistaking the
familiar spectacle of A. R. D. Fairbum
in Auckland (where recently, at only
53, he died) as a fair sample of the
genus “poet” according to popular
conception—especially in winter when,
his rugged, yet graceful six-foot-two
figure wrapped in a huge flowing over-
coat we had affectionately dubbed the
horse-blanket, with his strong feet
thrust into hand-made leather sandals,
his rumpled curling hair uncovered to
the blast, a couple of books under his
arm, he would come striding down the
hill from the Art Gallery and Library,
smiling with childlike pleasure at the
sight of a friend, eager to discuss, on
the spot, the current issue of the day.
But Rex was no long-hair, for all
his love of day-long walks in the hills
and bush of his beautiful country, and
for all his simple pleasure in simple
things. Physically he was handsome,
strong and remarkably athletic; an
outstanding swimmer, golfer, footballer
and, latterly, spear-fisherman.
He painted competently in oils and
made a highly successful venture of
fabric-printing; some of his curtain-
designs were bought by Lady Freyberg
for Government House, Auckland, and
his drawings from Maori cave-designs
were snapped-up eagerly in a shop at
United Nations headquarters in New
York.
Evidence of his essential masculinity
is clear enough in both his verse and
the vigorous prose which flowed in all
directions on a multitude of topics. 'He
took an active interest in the movement
for soil-conservation, was an enthusi-
astic propagandist for compost-farm-
ing and even lectured learnedly on
scientific sewage-disposal. He did
much to popularise New Zealand
wines, could astonish economists,
scientists and professors of philosophy
with the range of his reading and think-
ing in their own fields, and for the last
few years of his life he lectured on
the history of art at Auckland’s Elam
School. And through it all he was
utterly without vanity.
He could write a lyric worthy of
Herrick or Marvell: —
Though Time’s black mountain
overhangs
the night where she’s engrossed in
sleep,
its shadow cannot bruise my love,
so calm she lies, she dreams so deep.
She is not hurt by what shall be,
Death stands enchanted in her eyes ;
remote and lovely, a floating flower
on the lily pool of sleep she lies.
Dream deep, my love, as in the time
when your sweet spirit was unborn ;
b'ut rise up when the east is purple
and dress your hair for Judgment
morn.
But it is on three long poems,
“Dominion,” “The Voyage” and “To
a Friend in the Wilderness,” that his
claim to pre-eminence in the country’s
literary history is soundly based. From
“Dominion”:—
and the night sky, closing over,
covers like a hand
the barbaric yawn of a young and
wrinkled land.
They divided the land ;
some for their need, and some
for aimless customary greed
that hardened with the years, grew
taut
and knotted like a fist. Flowers
and weed
scattered upon the breeze
their indiscriminate seed ; on every
hillside fought
God’s love against the old
antagonist.
They change their sky but not their
hearts who cross the sea.
As a footnote, indicative of Fair-
burn’s essential independence of spirit,
I am indebted to another of his
contemporaries for this anecdote which
has pointed significance for the Aus-
tralian writer. At a dinner in Christ-
church in his honor he composed
impromptu “Lines to a State Literary
Fund”:—
Here is a piece of wisdom
I learned at my mother’s knee:
the mushroom grows in the open
field,
the toadstool under the tree.
Peter Middleton.
An Egyptologist
Mr. M. Zakaria Goneim, M.A.,
author of The Buried Pyramid (Long-
mans), is, perhaps, of special interest
at the moment in that he is an Egyptian
Egyptologist. Mr. Leonard Cottrell,
who helped him write the book, says
in his introduction: —
During the past thirty years a
considerable number of Egyptians
have studied Egyptian archaeology,
mainly at Cairo University, under
European professors, and today all
the principal posts in the Antiquities
Service of the Egyptian Govern-
ment are held by Egyptians.
However, Mr. Goneim’s true claim
to fame is not his nationality, nor the.
tone in which he speaks of “our
Leader” (Colonel Nasser) but that he
discovered, in 1954, a “new” pyramid,
thought to commemorate a previously
unknown monarch of very early times,
King Sekhem-Khet. It lay beneath the
sand, its position faintly indicated by
a raised terrace, near the step-pyramid
of Djoser. It was built in the same
primitive style, “the first attempt by
man to build monumentally in stone”;


AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
THE WICKED AND THE FAIR
by H. Drake-Brockman. Based on
actual records and documents, this
novel tells the story of the mutiny and
wholesale murder that followed the
wreck of the Dutch ship, Batavia, off
the West Australian coast in 1629.
22/6 (post 7d.)
SYDNEY LOOKS BACK
by Isadore Brodsky a book for all
who know something of Sydney. The
author delves into the past, recalling
strange and entertaining facts—some
that have been forgotten, some that may
be remembered by older citizens. 40
pages of photographs.
42/- (post lid.)
AVAILABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS AND ..
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD..
80-95 Ca&tlereaglx Street, Sydney. Tel.: B 03<?3.
books to buy 2 books to read
WITHOUT LOVE
Gerald Hanley
mamba
Stuart Cloete
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
From alt
Booksellers
Ready
Now
a huge construction of stone blocks
faced with limestone.
After a first exciting discovery of
some gold rings and bracelets in a
subterranean corridor, Mr. Goneim’s
find was somewhat disappointing;
at least to the world’s pressmen who
crowded about him as his workmen
tunnelled close towards the central
chamber, and to all who hoped that the
pyramid would contain treasure or the
mummy of a pharoah. The cupboard
was bare; there was nobody home: —-
Every eye was fixed on the sarco-
phagus. The lid started from its
place . . . and came slowly up an
inch at a time. We saw the inside
walls of the sarcophagus coming
into view, and moment by moment
looked deeper into the interior. It
was soon evident that there was no
inner case, and finally, after ten
minutes, we all realised that the
sarcophagus was empty.
Still, if he did not provide treasure
and a royal mummy, Mr. Goneim at
least dug up a first-class mystery; why
on earth should anyone erect so,
colossal a pyramid, honeycombed with
rooms and passages, in total area the
size of Trafalgar Square, and put
nothing inside it? All the passages
leading to the central chamber seemed
to have been blocked with masonry by
the original builders; there was no
sign that tomb-robbers had been at
work. Mr. Goneim can only suggest
that the central chamber was a
“dummy” tomb and that later excava-
tions may solve the mystery.
The story of his excavations gives
Mr. Goneim an opportunity to discuss
Egyptology and the pyramids in
general, all of which is interesting
enough to those unfamiliar with the
subject, as also is his day-to-day
account of the digging with the aid of
those families of Egyptians who, like
the Sherpas on Everest, have from
generation to generation worked with
the explorers: “Although they work
for wages, these men are much more
than mere hired laborers. They take
a genuine interest in their work, and
will talk proudly of the discoveries they
have made under the leadership of
famous archaeologists.”
Reviewed Briefly
Country Copper: Superintendent G.
H. Totterdell, C.LD. (Harrap). The
best part of the book is his early
chapters on his policeman-father, who
was for ever bringing home the cracked
waddies with which he kept order, and
on the pitched battle fought between
police, townsmen and toughs at Great
Wakering, “The Battle of the
Common,” late last century. The
parade of the superintendent’s own
cases includes the story of “Flannel-
Foot,** a small-time thief who stole
from workmen’s kitchens and evaded
capture for many years—the job of
shadowing done on him would seem
improbable in mystery fiction;
Boddeus, who lived in one house and
forged with his “wife” and daughter in
another; a man who took small shops,
stocked them on credit and vanished
with the goods; Ada Kent, a recluse,
who lay ten years dead in her cottage
near Harwich before police, alerted
by wild rumors that she had died all
over the countryside, found her bones
in 1949 buried in the bedroom under
the plaster of the fallen ceiling ... and
various murders.
* * * *
Switchboard: Roger Longrigg
(Faber). In his first book, “A
High-pitched Buzz,” Roger Longrigg
wrote about London’s smart young
people with some verve and sparkle.
In his second, he writes about London’s
smart young people.
* * * *
Mama I Love You: William Saroyan
(Faber). A little girl tells how she
went to New York with her mother
and acted in a play, and how her
father was in Paris, and so on. The
simplicity and directness of the child
is forced and the naivete faked, but
the story gets itself told effortlessly,
with touches here and there of
Saroyan’s humor and charm.
¥ * V *
The Mandarins: Simone de Beauvoir
(Collins). A significant novel about
French Left-wing intellectuals in the
post-war period. Brilliantly written, it
shows their emotional and philosophical
journey to the brink of despair.
They are saved only by their realisa-
tion of the claims of others and by
the need to live life, not watch it.
“When an aeroplane starts into a
nose-dive it’s better to be the pilot
who’s trying to pull out of it than a
terrorised passenger,” says one of the
characters whose own hopes, ideals and
character have crumbled in the stress
of events. The gallery Of personalities,
the emotional tensions and the political
entanglements are vividly presented to
illuminate a way of living and think-
ing that has had much influence,
especially in France, in the modern
world.
sfc sfc
For a Queen’s Love:, the “intimate
recollections” of Queen Alexandra of
Yugoslavia (Odhams). Her father,
Prince Alexander of Greece, died five
months before she was born, from the
bite of a pet monkey. She and her
mother were exiled from Greece after
it became a republic. She had unhappy
schooldays in England; married King
Peter of Yugoslavia in London in
1944; wandered restlessly through
Europe after Tito had exiled "Peter;
endured the most expensive kind of
poverty; tried to commit suicide when
their marriage began to crack-up; and
eventually—on Christmas Day—was
reconciled to her husband. Told in
the fluffy romantic style common to
royal memoirs, but still a most
interesting story.


BRAND NEW
CLEAR SURFACE
rSTON TABLE
Brand new Oft. x 3ft. five-ply folding tables
with steel leg. A sturdy yet light first-class table
that could grace any kitchen. Ideal for caterers,
shearers’ quarters, clubs and committees. Un-
limited stocks and every table guaranteed. Price
£4/10/- ea.
FOLDING
STOOLS
To suit the fift. x
Hit. !•' o 1 <1 i n g
Tables. T'or cater-
ers, weekenders,
etc. 25/ each.
TARPAULINS
Brand New 2-1 x J 8 Tar-
paulins, made from heavy-
duty Braid mill canvas. A
bargain.' Price £32/10/- Ea.!
I
0
§
lord Blitz Hill I nose Radia-
tors. Brand new. £22/10/-
eaeli. Brand lie\v to suit 52
Model Dodge, Plym, and l)e
Soto. Price, £l5 each. Also
in Stock. I'ord Radiators
with lin. Core, suitable for
stationary engine, etc.
PRICE. .£22/10/-;
RADIATOR CORES
Brand JJew CHKV.
Size, 22Jin. x 18in. x Sin.
PKICR. £lO EA.
folded.
Ex-Army sin g I <
bed sheets (linen)
Price 15/- j>r
Post 2/9 extra
Crown Wheel & Pill ion <i-o!l
It'.Vtro. will fit blitz trucks.
3.88- fits 1., Cease Chev.
I*K| CK. fPi-'IO - Kach.
FORD
Generators
PETROL HOSE
u
Complete with fittings.
Brand new, in length* of Oft.
FlUCra, :i'S/(i length.
BRAND NEW TYRES
and TYRES AS NEW
900 x 13 x 6-ply £l4/-/-
825 x 10 x 10-ply £l2/10/-
700 x 20 x C-ply £l3/15/-
650 x 20 x 6-ply £l6 10/-
(iOO x 20 x 8-ply £l4/10/-
750 xlB x 8-ply or 10-ply .. £l6/10/-
000 x 18 new, 10 ply, £25/-/-.
825 x 18, new, 8 ply, £l9/10/.
1100 x 20, new, 10 ply, £44/10/-.
750 x 20, 8 or 10 ply, new—
as new £l6/10/ to £22/10/-.
SPECIAL RETREADS
C5O x 15, 6 ply, £3/10/- each.
*25 x 20, 10 ply, £ 16/10/- each.
rs
€
32/6
Ci
&
Genuine ev-ariny blankets pure wool sinjjle be<l size only.
CC'IMVI'ER!). 3-1 « EA. Post 4/- extra.
OVERCOATS
§\;? 'V
!
8
m
Woollen
Army
Overcoats
in first-
class
condition.
Sizes
up to
38in.
chest.
Price
25/-
Don’t
miss
ont.
TaorsKKs
—r:
BRAND NEW FLYING HELMETS
/t O
\
/
{tirand new Md leather.
• nuingis lined l-.l'yjHgr Ca |>s,
zippered earseetfpns, ideal
, for .Motor Cyclists, Trailer
I Drivers, etc. Price, 19/0 ea
Post I 0 extra.
3'HIRTi
WAi I„
OKDKK
JL.v-A KM \ . Brand new
sizes 10, -12 waist.
TerVitfc Value.
30/- pair.
■——
EX-R.A.A.F
HAVERSACKS
ft
Web.
Price, I*2/6 each.
Post '2/6 extra.
ENGINEERS’ VYCES
mm
11 im
-tin. Brand New. Limited
niimber only.
HICK. t 4 each. Be early,
Armco Culvert Piping
m
Brand how, in bundles of til
Makes approx. JO running feet
HAlifc' PRICE,*
95/- Bundle
EX-ARMY HATS
In excellent condition.
| All sizes. Price 19/6 each.
Slightly damaged condition,
hut still a good hat. Price,
13/6 each.
Po“t ?/- extra.
Ex-Army
Beds
Ex-Army B
60/-
ce, 2ft. (iin.. fid/-
30/.
6*.
Mattress, 2ft. 6in.
30/- ea.
llQtifcls Mime from
i(lo/.. -water-stained canvas —
lined ; with cv-Arniv woollen
blankets, complete with
>na|>-«>n lest straps, etc.
I’KICK, £t/I!)/6 T-A. Jk
KAAIiMY.
3-ga!l. Dixies
Oval type anil cwtivptete wilh
li«l*. A*, new.
25/- ea.
An Meui
>.> itiivg I’ot
tiraiiii Mew.
u(< i\ *»> < » TTKit«
PPi C *
30 SPANNERS
in EREE Tool Box.
Pi
rm
TOOL
BOX
A mixture of 30 spanner* in
Free Tool Box. Comprising
open ender, ring and tuPe."
Price. t's-5/-.
PLEASE WRITE NAME & ADDRESS PLAINLY AND IN BLOCK LETTERS.
No C.O.D. MAIL, PHONE, OR CALL No C.O.D.
Add Exchange to Cheques. When delivered at Siding, please add Freight.
KING'S
[LEATHER GOODS-TYRES
122-124 Devonshire St.
Sydney
WRITE FOR POST FREE CATALOGUE.
A few doors from Elizabeth Street, near Central Station.
Phones, FA7691 — FA9155, MX3954. After hours only: MX1269.
