

V
'im,
app&Ci^'
/
SOLE HO
SWE E T OR DR \
The Bulletin
The Snob'Dodger—page n
Wednesday, April 10, 1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Tvgsnstered in' Australia for .transmission by-'post as a newspaper.'
ST. THOMAS'S HOSPITAL, LONDON
CT. THOMAS’S, one’ of London’s largest hos-
pilals, is situated on the' south bank of the
Thames, almost opposite -the Houses of Parliament.
It was founded in. the -Hih' eentury on a site in
Southwark, but this oHginal byilding was destroyed
by fire and was rebuilt-on the eastern side of the
borough. -
The present range of modern buildings, occupy-
ing 570 yards of the Albert Embankment, was
built by the. architect Curry in 1808 and opened
in 1871. Shortly before moving to the new
buildings, the hospital became the home of M;ss
Nightingale’s school .for nutses.
St. Thomas’s was one of the pioneers in the
foundation of a social welfare department under
the charge of a lady alnioner which, since 1905,
has done valuable work in connection with the
social complications of illness and the rehabili-
tation of patients.
Just before the outbreak of the second world
war, the hospital had beds for 082 in-patients, of
whom 12,000 were treated, annually.- During the
war, between September, 1940, and. May, 1941, the
hospital was severely damaged by enemy action.
Air-raid casualties poured .in just when the hos-
pital was experiencing its' worst difficulties, but
its doors remained open and an emergency branch
was opened near Godaiming. Flying bombs caused
further damage in July, 1944. The night nurses’
quarters were completely destroyed and nine of
the staff were killed, but the life of not a single
patient w r as lost during the w'hole period of the
bombing.
Today the hospital, is again in full w’Oiking
order, possesses a large medical school, and
over half a million out-patients are treated
annually in this srdendid world-renowned hospital.
No. 344: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


UOOKJI INTER, Bo* 2671. o.Sydney.
A service for readers. That dilßcult to obtain
volume. Jet ub And it for you—ilction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate Toe oniy it mo-
ceisful-
The Red Page
NAMATJIRA AND CO.
The more elevated art-critics never
tire of saying that Namatjira should
be painting aboriginal art; and Mr.
T. G. H. Strehlow, as he does again
in Rex Battarbee (Legend Press), never
tires of replying that the Aranda tribe,
to which Namatjira belongs, had very
little art for him to paint.
Under pain of death, the Aranda
artist was forbidden to paint any
totemic patterns other than those of
his own clan; and even within these
limits the individual artist had only a
very small part in the making of each
ceremonial decoration, as these were
normally a joint effort by a number of
men, each painting “those portions of
the concentric down-rings that were
within the reach of his own hands.”
Thus, until Rex Battarbee came along
and taught Namatjira the European
tradition of watercolor, “native art in
Central Australia had become com-
pletely fossilised, and its patterns were
rigorously supervised by the old men
of each totemic clan.”
Mr. Battarbee himself, in an article
on “Why I Paint in Central Australia,”
has a word on the point:—
It is doubtful if the Australian
aboriginal really had true art-
expression. Most of the art-forms
which this Aranda tribe possessed ,
really belonged to their religious
life and were not practised by the
younger men ; only the old men of
the tribe made these designs, which
conformed to ancestral tradition.
These were largely symbolical and
were confined mainly to concentric
circles and wavy lines.
Of course it could still be argued
that Namatjira should have broken
the totemic laws and developed an
aboriginal style of art taken from any
sources all over the country. Once
he had broken free he would have had
no need to stop at the portions of a
concentric circle his tribal custom
allowed.
But then he wouldn’t have been free
to do what he obviously delights in
doing: landscapes of his own wild
country. And, the more so because he
does them very well, it really seems
absurd to suggest that he should have
escaped from rigorous supervision of
the old men of his tribe only to fall
under the rigorous supervision of the
old men of fashionable art-criticism.
The book contains many color-plates
of Centralian landscapes, some by Rex
Battarbee, some by Namatjira and his
sons, some by the Pareroultja brothers.
The general effect will not be new to
anyone familiar with the Aranda paint-
ings, nor will the extraordinarily close
resemblance between Rex Battarbee’s
watercolor-style and that of his
followers; but the book should be a
useful introduction for anyone who
missed the earlier books on the move-
ment.
Another art-book from the Legend
Press is Australian Image, with letter-
press about the paintability of our
landscape by Colin Simpson and a
medley of color-reproductions of land-
scapes by forty Australian painters of
varying quality.
Some of the reproductions fall far
short of the quality of the originals:
Lance Solomon’s “Summer,” for
example, and Hans Heysen’s “South
Australian Pastoral.” Others, such as
Gruner’s exquisite “Morning in the
Clearing” and David Davies’s “Golden
Summer” have a high degree of
fidelity and introduce us to some very
beautiful pictures.
With some of the reproductions
hackneyed, with many important
painters omitted and some very
minor ones included, it is not a distil-
lation of the best in Australian
landscape-painting nor even a very
forceful pictorial coverage of the con-
tinent; but ranging from Tasmania to
Queensland and the Centre, with plenty
of sea, bush and paddock, it will serve
well enough the purpose for which it
seems to have been intended —a- “gift-
book” with a pleasant lot of pictures
of Australian scenery.
Three Plays
It is not, of course, to be assumed
that the travelling novelist, Boffin, in
Noel Coward’s South Sea Bubble
(Heinemann), who plays no real part
in the action except to make all the
brightest remarks, is in any way a
portrait of the author. It is enough
that he is a travelling novelist, here
gathering “material” on the mythical
South Sea island of Samolo; and all
authors for all time must be grateful
to him for the stupendous rudeness
with which he squashes that most
pestilential of literary, hangers-on, the
lady who has read all one’s books,
doesn’t like them, and takes the oppor-
tunity of saying so;—
Cuckoo (with dignity): You must
forgive me if I have been imperti- -
nent.
Boffin: Why?
Cuckoo: I’m sure I’m very sorry
if I spoke out of turn. I should have
thought a man in your position would
be big enough to take a little honest
criticism.
Boffin: Why?
But there is one point, at least, where
Boffin does seem to be speaking directly
for the playwright: Mr. Coward must
so often have heard and read the criti-
cism that his works don’t “contribute”
anything—“ But a man with your gifts
and your experience of the world and
people, don’t you think you have a
sort of responsibility, a sort of duty,
to the public?”
Boffin’s answer is that the novels
do contribute “a hell of a lot to me”;
but the proper answer for Noel
Coward’s plays is that they contribute
laughter; and manners; and, in their
light way, knowledge of the world; and
brilliant and economical dialogue; and
wit. That is about all that can be said
for the comedies of Congreve and
Sheridan; and if it is enough to have
preserved them for centuries, no doubt
it will be enough to preserve at least
three or four plays out of Noel
Coward’s huge output.
Perhaps not “South Sea Bubble.” It
is strung together with amazing loose-
ness—there is no real point in the
theme of the free public lavatories
which are going to annoy the Samolon
natives so much (that seems just a
borrowing from “Clochemerle”), and
the novelist should obviously have
been made to play some significant part
in the denouement.
But it is an exceedingly funny play.
It flips lightly about the problem of
modernising and liberating natives who
don’t want to be modernised and
liberated, and it becomes hilarious
when the governor’s wife crowns an
amorous chieftain with a bottle. It
contains at least one wisecrack which
surely deserves to become immortal
. . . one rather suspects that Mr.
Coward had saved it up for a long
time till he got a chance to use it in a
play:—
Hali : Another reason I came,
Lady Sandra, was to bring you back
your most pretty diamond-and-
sapphire clip... .It was found in my
car early this morning.
Sandra: How thoughtful of you,
Hali....
Boffin : It’s the sentimental value
that counts.
Hali: It is most dismal to lose
something of sentimental value.
Boffin: Yes. Like India.
Almost as funny as “South Sea
Bubble,” and a good deal more
solid, is a surprising comedy by Jean-
Paul Sartre, Nekrassov (Hamilton).
Nobody beginning to read it should
be put off by the rather dismal open-
ing under a bridge on the Seine when a
ne’er-do-well tries to commit suicide
and is hauled out by another couple
of derelicts. It looks, indeed, like
another piece of grimy French “real-
ism,” and also like a repetition of
“Winterset”; but Sartre is not really
fishing for a suicide there but fishing
for his opening, and the scene could
well be dispensed with.
When he gets the play going it is
about the confidence-man Georges de
(<Continued on page 66)


St
&
.
. .
mm
*
f.-M
• n
m
Y.
.ft-
Yl
and we got the truck we wanted” agreed the
Australian farmerl and builder!
<r
mi
m
m
lilliS
. )
/
i
“Yes, the International AS-148 was design-
ed and built at Dandenong, Victoria, to
exactly fit our truck requirements.”
“We needed at least 1\ tons capacity,” said
the Builder, “but with power and stamina,
low initial and running costs, a convenient
‘close to 40 inches’ tray height to allow
easier man-handling of bulky building
materials.” His friend nodded. “We
farmers wanted enough chassis length to fit
a large stock-crate when needed, and we
really use that full 11' 6" x 7' 6" tray area.
We wanted cab comfort —excellent visi-
bility and conveniently placed controls,
because those bush tracks can be mighty
long and rough.”
“Yes, the International AS-148 is the truck
we demanded ! She will suit a lot of other
trucking jobs, too.”
■
11
I. H. Dealers for Sales and Service in all Important centres,
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
ALL TRUCK BUILT TO SAVE YOU THE BIG MONEY!
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
FMT-751/36


The Bulletin
Vol. 78—No. 4026
Wednesday, April 10,1957
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
WHICH SIDE INDIA?
IN its preoccupation with sex, false
sentiment, horror and crime the Aus-
tralian daily press has failed to give
reasonable importance to the results of
the Indian elections.
Interpretation of the results is that
the Iron Curtain is falling round India.
More polls with the continuing trend
of the recent one must mean that the
apparent ambitions of Mr. Khrishna
Menon will be achieved with a closely-
bound Asian nationalist alliance, and
either Moscow or Peking holding the
leadership and the strings.
The feeling produced by Indian
national propaganda during the past
few months has been that Nehru has
had an accord with Moscow as close
as that with the West, but that it has
been his desire to sit on the fence, as it
suited his opportunism to do.
Moscow has called the Communist-
party dogs off in India. It has got
better results by dealing with Nehru
direct. Its tremendous organisation
and adulation of him when he went to
Russia and its subsequent photographic
campaign in India to win the masses
there to the idea of unity of ideas and
aims; its savage preaching of the
principles of anti-colonialism; its
support of everything that was calcu-
lated to make a breach between Nehru
and the West, and particularly between
Nehru and the rest of the British
Commonwealth, have borne fruit.
Bulganin, Khrushchev and Chou
En-lai were garlanded with flowers
and exhibited looking like Christmas-
trees to the admiring Indians. They
were given carte blanche to cajole and
charm the Indian multitude almost on
the threshold of the polls. They were
wooed and supported, with an ugly
ingratitude towards the one European
country from which India has received
any permanent benefits or ingredients
of civilisation —the United Kingdom.
India was severely against the U.K.
in the Suez business, servile in propa-
gating the Russian viewpoint with
almost as much violence as the
Kremlin, a supporter, adviser and con-
sultant of Nasser, a strident spokesman
for the Arab viewpoint in the United
Nations, and, incidentally, a brazen
breaker of its Charter in the matter of
Kashmir and a provocateur towards
Pakistan, willing to see that country
harried from Afghanistan by Russian-
urged levies.
Nehru and his elusive publicists
have had, over the past few months,
the advantage in their double game
of having the naive State Department
at Washington ready to play the “anti-
colonialist” game, thus excluding from
the Asian sphere, so far as usefulness
goes in stabilising the South-east Asian
area, the only Power with real experi-
ence of Asiatic affairs on the Western
side —Britain. The free world is likely
to pay dearly for the U.S. attitude
before the last word of the history of
the 20th century is written.
It is true that recently, as the election
approached, Nehru has begun to realise
that he has stepped into a quicksand.
Instances of his backing-and-
filling have been seen before in his
frenzied but isolated speeches in certain
centres —almost immediately after he
has been seen hobnobbing with Com-
munist visitors from Moscow and
Peking—in which, to Socialist audi-
ences, he has let his hair down on the
horrors of Communism in contraven-
tion of almost every act of his diplo-
matic life in recent years.
But in the polls which have just
taken place the results have been all
too clearly evident. His Congress party
has won substantially over-all, but with
much reduced authority.
No body of voters so large has ever
gone to a poll as that which voted at
the Indian elections. It would be fairer
to speak of it as a group of bodies,
since it speaks many languages,
consists of dozens of races, and its only
common denominator is in extremes of
poverty and wealth and in the ignor-
ance and economic debasement of
most of the voters.
Though the Congress party led by
Nehru has been returned to power,
the results of his acrobatics are seen
right through the country. There is a
pattern about Communist penetration
as revealed by the voting which is
thoroughly disturbing, showing as it
does how strategical and organised the
Communist effort has been.
It is no accident that the State
which has gone wholly Communist,
Kerala, by providing the party with
a majority while contesting fewer seats
than at the previous election, stretches
down the western side of the southern
point of India, commanding all* the
main sea-routes to Australia and the
East—that from Bombay to Ceylon;
from Calcutta to Europe via Suez and
Ceylon itself, which is in fighter-range
over its whole area from Kerala,
as is also the newly-planned British
base in the Maldives. Kerala, with
13,500,000 people, becomes the first
civilised State to have acquired a
Communist Government at an election
—one secured by the doubling of the
Communist vote while the Congress
vote remained static.
In the Marathi (southern) section of
the enlarged Bombay State —Bombay
has about 48 million people within its
new boundaries —the Congress party
suffered a crushing blow, a united front
of Left-wing organisations cunningly
fighting on the issue of a separation of
the Maharashtrian areas as a State by
themselves and winning three-quarters
of the available seats. In the northern
Gujerati sections of Bombay at the
State elections the disaster was almost
as marked. In Calcutta, in the West
Bengal State, Congress lost 18 out of
26 seats to a Communist-Socialist
alliance.
In the Indian National legislature
the Communists made undoubted and
uniform progress in every State except
Madras, Mysore and the Telegana
section of Andhra Pradesh, of which
Hyderabad is the centre. They become
the largest Opposition party in the
Assembly at Delhi; even though their
strength is only 25, this meant an
increase' of eight seats. For the first
time they are represented in the State
legislatures of every State.
And the interpretation of the reason
is, in the view of responsible observers
on the spot, that the flirtation which
Nehru’s Congress party has been carry-
ing on with Russia and China has “not
discomfited local Communism but has
made it respectable.”
The debates of the United Nations
have made it clear that India is no
longer to be trusted as a partner in
the British Commonwealth. The revela-
tion to all and sundry in U.N. of
detailed minutes of a meeting of the
British Prime Ministers in London by
Menon, despite the vigorous protests of
British and Australian representatives,
establishes a principle which rules out
the possibility of free discussion either
of foreign affairs or defence at the next
Prime Ministers’ gathering in London
next June, unless some firm guarantees
of secrecy and co-operation are
forthcoming.
Communisation of India is so alarm-
ing a prospect for Australia that Mr.
Menzies should make the matter a
problem for major study, both as
regards the British Commonwealth and
as regards Australian security.
India must decide which side it is on.


THE “FOREIGN DOCTORS” IN QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT


PLAIN ENGLISH
Our Defences
Mr. Menzies’s statement on defence was
no news to anybody. The party-room
had already “leaked.”
As forecast, the Government will buy
Cl 30 Hercules troop-carriers and
American Starfighters as the basis of
R.A.A.F. air equipment. The Hercules
are vital for troop-transport, though it is
a pity that a British aircraft can’t be
obtained. Unfortunately, after providing
most of the genius and invention which
has made the nuclear weapons, the jet
aircraft and the electronic accessories and
radar possible, the British are going their
usual insular way and are failing to
capitalise their advantages. As with the
motor-car, they appear to be able to see-
no further than the factory-gate and pig-
headedly refuse to take advice or to
believe that the world shouldn’t take
what Birmingham and Bristol believe to
be good for them rather than what the
customers want.
Bold in conception, they appear to
knock at the knees when it comes to
application of their inventive genius and
deal only in half-measures.
It seems inevitable that Australia must
be linked with the Americans in the
broader shape of Pacific defence, because
the British Commonwealth apparently
hasn’t the capacity to realise that a few
years of unity of the Commonwealth as
a whole, and the application of its experi-
ence and technical ability to the problem
of using untouched raw materials avail-
able within its bounds, would soon again
make it the most powerful and potent
national bloc in the world.
The will to unity is strangulated by the
petty conceits and ambitions of local
politicians and parish-pump politics.
The whole of the new Australian set-up
seems to be a natural consequence of this
position. Only the R.A.N. isn’t touched,
because it apparently is thought that
navies don’t matter very much any more.
This policy is disturbing, since, in spite
of all the concern with the air, it seems
not unlikely that the next war will be
won by the destruction of shipping, unless
it is postponed long enough to transfer
all heavy carriage to the skies —a con-
summation which seems a long way off.
The rest of the programme, while
adopting the principle of natural integra-
tion with the United States defence-forces
in war, follows the United Kingdom in
reductions. The British Commonwealth
seems to be prepared to let America call
the tune and carry the burden while it
recovers something of its industrial
equilibrium. As in Britain, the call-up for
National Service is to be reduced very
substantially—from 39,000 to 12,000 a
year, the selection to be made by ballot.
Perhaps, in modern training, with
natural integration of ground-forces with
air-transport, and since the Government
intends to modernise training, 12,000 is
the limit it can handle financially. But
Mr. Menzies goes contrary to the theory
of modern defence-armies when he
declares that “the emphasis is not so much
on numbers as on mobility, equipment
and firepower.”
That is true of combat-forces engaged
in the aggressive part of defence. But
civilian defence now moves into the front
line, and it wouldn’t be too much, if
absolute efficiency is aimed at, to make
civilian defence a universal matter in
which every citizen was expected to
undergo some training. Certainly a very
large proportion of the population not
trained for ordinary military service
should be trained for civil defence.
Atomic warfare is only a theoretic
conception as yet, and it is a “luxury”
type of war. One implication which
Australia will have to face if it intends to
integrate itself with the Americans is that
it is in for “luxury” war in which the
comfort of the troops appears, on the
experience of, say, Korea, to be as impor-
tant as victory. The results were seen
in Korea.
The R.A.A.F. is to be increased by
1000 men or so and apparently is to be
maintained, expense regardless—and that
is no modest thing in a service in which
aircraft are used as taxis, and it costs
about £30,000 to produce a fighter-pilot
with only a few years’ usage at top-
efficiency in him.
The Regular Army will continue to be
a cadre, re-equipped with the Belgian
FN3O rifle, the 105 mm. gun, a strength
of 21,000 overall —with 2000 now en-
gaged in National Service training duties
returned to regular service. There will
be a special brigade-group of 4000 men,
trained in the use of the most modern
weapons “available.” This does not
follow the new U.S. “pentominal” unit
system.
We are not likely to get the most
modern weapons extant unless the pro-
ducers are sure that the Government will
not fall into the hands of men whose
industrial wing—official sections of the
political Federal Labor party—is on such
friendly terms with the Communists.
The whole of the new defence plan as
outlined—allowing that it has been
revealed frankly, which it may not have
been for security reasons in view of the
nature of the Opposition—sounds tenta-
tive and unoriginal, and cut to the shape
of the Government’s financial courage
rather than to fit national needs.
Cow Bother
Victorian cattle have become so inquisi-
tive during their travels through Mel-
bourne that there have been no fewer than
41 incidents in the last 25 months, and
the City Council has passed a regulation
for the first time dealing with droving.
Not all of them have caused bloodshed
and damage, and the latest, on March
28, a cow, which walked into a china-shop
in Newmarket, had to pass 15 other
shops before she moved in and then
caused only a fiver’s-worth of damage,
probably because she was hurriedly
shooed out.
The previous day women relaxing in
curlers at the only beauty-salon in
Pyramid -Jlill, near Bendigo, saw the
front door open slowly and a young steer
walk in. They ran screaming out the
back-door, according to reports —or they
should have, anyway.
On .March 6, Ernest Dredge, a waters
side-worker, was reading the paper in his
living-room, suddenly became aware of
another presence and looked up to see a
steer contemplating him from an inside
door. The steer was one of 107 at that
moment chasing policemen, small-boys,
motorists, wharflaborers and others
around Port Melbourne.
The most engagingly bloodless
incident, though, was as far back as
March, 1955, when a woman walking
down a Port Melbourne street became
aware of a heavy tread behind her, looked
over her shoulder and saw a 9001 b. steer
interestedly following her basket.
She did not drop her bundle, though.
She quickened her pace, and the steps
behind her accelerated, too. Then she
ran, and the steer trotted. She made it.
She hurdled her front fence.
A Word From CCanada
[From R.D.S., British Columbia]
My son —at Upper Yarra Dam (Vic.) —-
has been sending me The Bulletin for
some time.
The stories are very good. Hal Porter’s
“At the Galahad” in B. 17 /11/'56
appealed immensely ; we have places just
like that in Victoria, 8.C.! Bless their
hearts, the poor old dears! Gavin Casey
(December 12 issue) puts a great deal in
a nutshell in “Those "Good Old Days.”
Ray Mathew’s “The Long Ride”
intrigued me.
As for your editorials and British
Commonwealth articles, they are “tops.”
Many, many people here in Canada feel
the same as The Bulletin does, but our
papers haven’t the guts to print the truth
—we are too close to Uncle Sam. Some
think we are a U.S. satellite. Of course,
we have a sort of United Nations here in
Canada. You see, in the over-40-years I
have been in the West, Canada has
imported so many Russians, Ukrainians,
Slovaks, Polaks, Swedes, Hungarians and
what-have-you that (as an example)
among 50 families living in the same area
as myself, there are only five British
families —mine (I was bom in England)
is one ; two other families are British-
Canadian of the second generation;
two others are from Scotland ; the balance
are American-Scandinavian, American-
Belgian, American-hillbilly and Chero-
kee Indians (“Okes,” if you know what
they are ; if not, read Grapes of Wrath),
American-Irish, Ukrainian and German.
So, just as Britain and France can be
controlled by Cuba, etc., in U.N., so we
are controlled at every turn here by
people with no tradition (having thrown
their own away, and not having adopted
ours!).
Truly, the British here are decidedly
unpopular. Too bad. When I came west
this was a British country, and I grew up
with it and love it.
I happen to be away from home
just now, in Alberta. I stay at a boarding-
house. The proprietress is Irish-Canadian
with a great loathing for England. The


other (quaite refained) guests are a 17-
year-old mechanic of Norwegian parents,
a 19-year-old radio-repairman of German
parents, the rest Americans by way of
Palestine and Central Europe.
The discussion about world affairs at
table is simply a tower of Babel. Being
“English” it doesn’t do for me to suggest
that there might be room for a little
study of history regarding, say, Suez—
“Oh, we don’t want your old kings and
battles.” That’s all they think of history
-—and care less.
I wouldn’t be so critical of my country
outside the Empire. to a cousin one
can say things.
Brisbane Hof War
In Queensland Premier Gair and
Bukowski’s Central Executive, who are
the equals of the Chinese Eighth Route
Army as masters of mobile warfare on a
shifting front, have reached another
climacteric in their running fight. The
clash came when the inner executive of
seven? which includes Gair and Deputy-
Premier Duggan, directed the Premier to
withdraw his bill banning one-brand
pietrol-stations and to delay the proclama-
tion of his University Acts Amendments
Bill.
Duggan described the Oil Bill as “the
rottenest piece of legislation ever brought
down in the State Parliament” and voted
with the rest of the inner executive,
leaving his chief in a minority of one.
Bukowski and others attacked the bill as
undemocratic and likely to bring the
Labor party into “ridicule and worse.”
Four University professors were in-
vited to give their views on the University
Bill, which gives the Government, on
appeal by an unsuccessful applicant for
a University pest, power to overrule the
decision of the University authorities.
Defying the decision of the Q.C.E.,
Gair went ahead with his Oil Bill and
gagged it through the Assembly in the
early hours of Thursday morning,
Duggan voting with the rest of the Gov-
ernment, despite his earlier remarks.
The confused and confusing situation
in Queensland politics is now something
like this. Gair has passed two bills which
are distasteful to the Opposition and to
the outside bosses, of Queensland Labor.
One of them is to be challenged on Con-
stitutional grounds and has been' the
subject of allegations of graft. The other
puts the supposedly independent Queens-
land University under restraints not
known in other universities in the British
Commonwealth.
If the expressed opinion of the Q.C.E.
could be taken at face-value it would
be a sign of a return to health and sanity
in the Queensland Labor party. Unfor-
tunately, however, the move seems more
likely to have been inspired by a desire
to “get” Gair —on issues which a power-
ful body of public opinion was already
ranged against him.
Bukowski and Co. seem more con-
cerned at the electoral unpopularity of
the legislation than at its irregularity.
Their real quarrel with Gair goes much
deeper. It goes back to the Hobart con-
ference and beyond, and the current
issues offer the executive more chance
of success than the three-weeks’-leave
issue which has been the chief point of
argument for three years.
Secret Ballots
The decision of the A.L.P. conference in
Brisbane to set out to abolish secret
union ballots, by withdrawing such
ballots from the control of non-interested
parties, recalls electoral polls not-so-secret
in bygone Queensland.
An elector at a Brisbane polling-booth
noticed that the electoral officer who
issued the ballot-paper to the elector
placed a cipher-number on the back of
the ballot-paper. The elector objected,
and the cipher was rubbed out, but
not until after lengthy protest. The
cipher, of course, identified the ballot-
paper and the elector, and those officiat-
ing could see which way the elector voted.
Obviously the ballot couldn’t be secret.
Of course, there have been many,
many ways in which alleged “secret
ballots” have revealed not only the
strength of Government opponents, but
the strength of groups, such as religious,
public-service, etc., to the controllers of
a State. There were the clumsy ones of
the sliding-panels, and the more particular
one of a cipher on ballot-papers lodged
in the unsullied innards of the ballot-box ;
but how many more methods are there
which could make a ballot secret on the
surface but an open book to those who
wanted to know who were the naughty
boys and girls who didn’t vote the party
ticket?
(Some scrutineers at Senate elections,
incidentally, claim that they can quite
legitimately identify New Australian votes
by the peculiar Continental method of
making certain figures.)
One of the most humorous aspects of
any party election is to watch the faces
of the backbenchers who seem to be
wondering what new form of ballot skul-
duggery will be indulged in. How often
have the defeated thought: “It must
have been rigged! I only got one vote,
and I voted twice!”
Casey TcSks Sense
Mr. Casey, in his plain-spoken but dip-
lomatic speech on foreign affairs in
Parliament last week, made strongly the
points which Have been evaded by most
responsible tb'"
Arab nationalism follows the line of
action of most cncouju van,
external so-called menace to divert me
attention of their peoples from their
domestic problems,” the target in this
case being Israel, of which the “Arab
States of the Middle East have never
accepted the right to exist.”
He said that “for this reason no Arab
State would publicly query an Egyptian
action against Israel, however provocative
and unjust.” He emphasised the point
which is vital in understanding the
Egyptian programme: that “by slow-
motion aggression against Israel, Nasser
has been able to build-up a growing repu-
tation for himself in the Arab world—
a reputation which lasted until it was
conclusively deflated by the Israeli attack
last October.” Casey said:
Egypt’s harassing of Israel took many
forms—a full-scale economic blockade —
the denial of Israeli shipping and Israel-
bound shipping through the Suez Canal and
through the Gulf of Akaba—continuous
Egyptian commando raids into Israeli
territory—and a formidable bombardment
of hostile Egyptian propaganda against
Israel.
All this is known fact, but in various
influential diplomatic centres spokesmen
seem to have become tongue-tied when
it came to stating it.
More important than Casey’s proposed
solutions of the Suez affair —“the situa-
tion needs a cooling-off period”—is the
Minister’s plain speaking about the
United Nations, of which he says truly
that “it has had many [vital international]
questions before it for 3, number of years
.... and.... has reached no satisfactory
solution of any of them” ; and, as was
all too evident in the case of the Egypt-
Israel dispute, it “cannot always be
counted to reach objective and fair con-
structive conclusions on situations in
which group-pressures and the promotion
of special interests have tended to
weaken its effectiveness and impartiality.”
Aid "Without Strings"
The cant phrase in the post-war years
on aid to Asian and African nations has
been that it should be offered and
accepted “without strings.” In other
words, the nations, including Australia,
which have contributed to the Colombo
Plan, and the United States under its
Point Four programme, have been pre-
pared to make substantial assistance,
monetary and technical, available without
any thought or suggestion that in return
there could be defence or trade arrange-
ments either now or in the future.
Some suspicious Eastern nations have
been prepared and eager to take a lot of
help on such terms, solacing their pride
by saying that “the West” was making
some reparation for years of “colonial
domination.”
But the time seems to have arrived
when we should take a look at the “with-
out strings” aspect of the help we are
continuing to give several of our Asian
neighbors—especially as those neighbors,
or some of them, are obviously reacting to
hints on the subject by Russia and China.
It was significant that when the Premier
of Red .China, Chou En-lai, was in
Ceylon in February he made his parting
message a warning to the Afro-Asian bloc
about “aid with strings.” Without
referring to any specific programme, he
said in Colombo that while Asian
countries needed help from other
countries it was obvious that some of the
nations giving help wanted to ask for
privileges like military bases. Eventually,
he said, the aggressive purposes of such
policies would become apparent and such
aid would become a burden to the receiv-
ing counties. He added that the peace
and prosperity of Asia must be planned
(Continued on page 13)


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
EVERY year I look forward, though
I am never invited, to the ban-
quet of N.S.W. oyster-growers and more
especially to the reverent record in the
Sydney “Herald” (which is invited) of the
junketing. This year the 450 who attended
demolished only 28,800 oysters, besides a
trifling 2001 b. of prawns and 3721 b. of
lobsters, with a bare 720 bottles of the
best to wash it all down —if my mathe-
matical bent hasn’t broken, 64 oysters per
feeder, average ; but one gentleman from
Bateman’s Bay downed 17 dozen;
nearly eight-quid’s-worth, by ighklars-
pub prices. Premier Joe Cahill started
a speech but had to sit down because of
the noise from the banquet-tables—was
it just the talking, or the screams of the
28,800 bivalves as they faced those open
gullets? I hope I shall not be accused of
vindictiveness, having missed-out on this
mass-slaughter, when I suggest that the
attention of the R.S.P.C.A. should be
drawn to this, and that the Anti-Vivi-
section Society be asked where it stands
on prodding live oysters with forks.—
“Bo.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ardoyne”: A missile-expert has issued
a grave warning that “guided-missiles
must be made more reliable than the
family car, because the future of the free
world may depend on their successful
operation.” Seems to me he’s worrying
unnecessarily: after all, a guided-missile’s
mechanism doesn’t have a back-seat
robot.
*l* *x* *l*
“Croid”: A ring at the front door ;
she opened it to a liveried chauffeur and
noted that he had emerged from a
luxurious limousine. “Here’s your meat,
Madam,” he said, producing a parcel.
“I haven’t ordered any meat,” she replied.
“Aren’t you Mrs. ?” he inquired.
She explained that it was meant for the
flat upstairs and he apologised, tipped his
cap and departed. “What annoys me,”
she told me, “is that Mrs. is the
wife of a Minister of the Crown. I wish
I had the use of a Government car to do
my messages.”
<s*
“P.0.M.C.”: A caustic critic at times,
W. M. Hughes might not have been as
pleased with Australia’s population-
progress as “Steve Hart” (B. 27/3/’57)
imagines. Though our first two million
took. 90 years to produce as against an
average of 10 years for each of the next
seven million, the total population of
this country now would be around 25
million instead of nine had the original
birth-rate per family been maintained.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mick of Melbourne”: A Melbourne
columnist says efficiency-experts at the
Maribyrnong explosives factory claim
they’ve saved taxpayers big sums by paint-
ing a stemmed wineglass instead of
“This Side Up.” Anybody who had any-
thing to do with imports could have seen
the same sign on cases from the
Continent 50 years ago.
*X+ ♦+♦ *>
“Kayell”: Syd Carman, treasurer of
the Victorian Football League glamor-
club, Essendon (the Bombers), explain-
ing an item on statement-of-expenses;
the amount £l5l for soft-drinks:
“We don’t encourage our players to drink
hard stuff. Always have plenty of the soft
variety available for them.”
I’ll say! At about 6d. a bottle the boys
managed to put away about 6000 bottles
in 20 weeks! Shades of the old-timers
who trained on beer, beer and more
beer.
♦3* *l* ❖
“Collie R.”: Acres of verbiage printed
about the W.A. Trotting Association’s
broadcast-ban contained not one word
HUSH-HUSH!
“Sydney Council may prosecute shops which
advertise through loudspeakers outside their
entrances. ‘They are beginning to turn the
streets into an Eastern market,’ said an
alderman.”
You can window-dress your pinnies,
Your records and your gin
And have models in bikinis
To beckon people in,
But it’s not an Eastern market
Where you offer merchandise,
So you’re not allowed to bark it —
That is not considered nice.
If cakes or meat or fishes
Are what you have to sell,
Or spicy cafe-dishes,
You can advertise the smell;
It’s a method that enlarges
Its horizons, I suppose,
When the prices Sydney charges
Are, for most things, on the nose.
Be content with window-shoppers
Breathing deeply as they stare ;
Leave the vulgar vocal whoppers
To announcers on the air,
Lest coarse commercial noises
Drown the street-repairers’ rams.
The barrowmen’s pure voices,
And the music of the trams !
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


of sympathy for non-punting listeners
who, week in week out, have to suffer
the raucous radio-experts detailing
acceptances, nominations, fancies and
interminable claptrap about the horses
before race-night—a free advertisement
to which the U.A.T.A. has not objected ;
nor one word of sympathy for the poor
mokes which have to be in the cart and
on the round again so soon after
meetings.
♦> ►> »>
“Myall”: Sir Charles Kingsford
Smith’s “Old Bus,” the Southern Cross,
is to have a permanent home at the
Eagle Farm Aerodrome (Brisbane) on
the Main Aerodrome Road, visible to
inward and outgoing traffic through a
glass front. The sides of the building
will be of pre-stressed vertical concrete
louvres and the back a marble wall;
estimated cost, £25,000 to £35,000.
* * ❖
“An Chuidh”: Glad to hear the Irish
pipe-band of Christchurch (N.Z.) won’t
be wearing spats (B. 20/3/’57). Spats
come from the British Army and not the
Highlands, and have been continually
criticised for detracting from the grace
of the kilt. Tackled our (Vic.) town-
band on the subject. Seems now that
tartan hose are £5 a pair the bands wear
only a tartan sleeve that ends at the
ankle, the spats covering that fact . . .
* * *
“Emtee”: Moscow Radio reports that
cricket may be played for the first time
in Russia during the World Youth
Festival. No batsman will be credited
with a six unless he lobs the ball over
the Iron Curtain ; a new ball every fourth
over will ensure the good old color being
retained ; and batsmen given out will
merely use their veto.
►l* *J»
“Doric”: The suburban musical-society
ballet had just given a performance in
the ‘altogether-one-after-the-other,” but
one man, whose daughter was in the
troupe, said “By Jove, those girls are
good,” clapping vigorously. “I’m sure
they are —morally!” said one of his
friends.
♦2* ♦>
“Keg”: “8.A.K.” (B. 27/3/’57) must
be a minor. It is some time since I called
“Fez, please,” but we were always glad
to change a fiver—if we had the change.
In those days maximum fare was five-
pence and £8 was a good day’s takings, so
we could only change a fiver towards the
end of the day. We were allowed ten-
minutes to finalise two journals, count
our takings and get it checked by the
revenue-clerk ; the bigger the denomina-
tions, the quicker we got away. Inciden-
tally, tramways always showed a profit in
my days.
<s► »$►
“R.M.”: A.R.P. blackout-prepara-
tions were incomplete at Dunleavy’s gym.
(B. 27/3/’57) when Jack was rushed to
hospital with appendicitis. I was looking
“What a day in town! I didn't see a thing I really Wanted to buy!”
after the gym., and had forbidden light in
the bathroom. The bloke under the
shower got scalded when the water-supply
failed and he let out a yell. I snapped the
light on and the water-supply returned to
normal; but immediately i switched the
light off the trouble recurred. I switched
on the light again, to find the bather
getting hot under the collar two ways.
“Leave the light on,” he demanded, as
the water came back. “Pull your skull
in,” I said ; “you must be punchy if you
think the light-switch controls the water.”
1 snapped it off. There was another yell
and 1 was nearly knocked over as the
injured party fled from the bathroom.
It turned out that Hockey Bennell had
been acting as turncock further along the
waterpipe.
♦3* ❖ *l*
“Doormat”: New South is not on its
own with big railway-deficits. Down in
the scrub country, Vic., we see a £5-
million loss coming up by the end of
June. The heads send out pep-talks each
week to the staff ; for instance, “Rolling
trucks gather no loss.” Why is it that
the appearance of slogans, as in road-
safety campaigns, is a pretty sure sign
that the situation is hopeless?
♦> ►>
“H. Wadsworth”: Perhaps “Bookie’s
Dog” (B. 20/3/’57) is right about Tatt.’s
attitude to another Olympic Special. In
the latest ads., the word to the unwise
was “90 per cent, subscribed” and “only
high numbers left.” Not bad business to
have had the use of roughly £300,000 for
several months. The high-number busi-
ness must be a sad knock to mathe-
maticians and to early subscribers.
♦> *l*
“Petronius Arbuckle ’: When a certain
journalist appeared for the first time tn
the hacking-jacket that the sports-coat
has become, with a slit up the back and
a ticket-pocket, someone asked him
pointedly if he was riding to work these
days. “No,” he said, “but I’m a hack in
my own right.”
“Sevenelms”: “Mulloway’s” round
ruler (B. 13/3/’57) that arrived as flot-
sam on his beach could not be ebony
(651 b. per cubic ft.) unless his bungalow
is situated on the Dead Sea. I am
astounded that no old-timer has come out
in praise of that once-essential piece of
office-equipment. Its curve allowed the
steel nib to be dipped fin. and still rule
the line without inking the ruler. The
competent bookkeeper, on stool at slop-
ing desk, let it roll down to its next
position, where he secured it with three
left fingers (two under, one on) and so
attained quick and easy parallelism.
❖ *i*
“H.W.”: Not a hundred miles from
Wellington, in a girls’ school some would
consider exclusive, fees fairly expensive,
a girl was asked in term-exams, to write
not more than fifty words of what she
knew about pure and raw silks. She
wrote tersely, for once:
Pure silk comes from coocoonareyies and
raw silk is before it is cookede.
Another, asked to describe the method
used in making a dress, wrote:
Pinn the paterae carfullie, sholders evan
with sharpe sissers and use chork for the
dartes or a neaddel and notted cottin tac the
bits then mashcen the seams withoute me
thimmbel on. You can use a treddel or
a eitrik masheen.
Another wrote:
Moth balls are for feeding mothes on in
cubbards so as not to eat the cloathes.
The Howlers-book yields:
She was found dead after three day*
and W'as. allready obsalete . . . The red
corpussels swim up the vains . . . Pollin is
transferr from staymen to stiggma by
incest . . The quallitie of murcurey is
not strained . . The annimal that sees
well in the dark is a sphix . . . Mrs. Mala-
propp was a lady in the scholl.for scandell
by Peter Townshend.


“Doric”: “And do you like the floor-
covering in this room?” she said, point-
ing to a mottled pink felt. “Very nice,”
said her guest, “but it does look very
much like pork-fritz.” And, come to
think of it, so it does.
♦jf *j+ -tjt-
“Terence”: A Gold Coast (Q.) parish-
priest was perturbed about the small
off-season plate-offerings. Sixpences,
threepenny-bits, and even pennies, were
not his idea of devotion to the Faith,
and he said so: “Give the pence and
the treys to the little ones and let them
have a good time. Regarding the church-
collections I’d like you to look upon me
as the Minister for Florin Affairs.”
<£♦
“Kenyas”: Some Austrian acquain-
tances who arrived in Sydney in 1938 with
little but the clothes they wore were
members of an extremely wealthy family
which had owned business enterprises*
over a good part of Central and Eastern
Europe ; the exploits of an ancestor are
recorded in most Austrian history-books.
The war over, they asked Viennese
authorities if there was any hope of
regaining any of their property. The
letter wasn’t even acknowledged. Then,
remembering the factories and railway
they had owned in Poland, they wrote to
the liberating Russians there, still our
allies. This time they received a most
courteous and sympathetic acknowledge-
ment ; it commiserated with them upon
the treatment they’d got at the hands of
the brutal Fascist beasts, but regretted
that everything now belonged to the
Polish people, who had freely and cheer-
fully, in the interest of reconstruction,
handed it all over to the State.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Wusslean”: The new building of the
Victorian Automobile Chamber of Com-
merce, the first multistory office-block
in St. Kilda-road, Melbourne, is to be
built on stilts. More than 100 cars will
thus be accommodated at ground-floor
level, underneath the building, and if
times get tough they should be able to
turn it into a car-auction.
“ ’Ermit”: One of my neighbors (lots
of lucre, no children), disgusted with
the mediocre programmes, offered his
television-receiver, complete with aerial,
for £l5O to anybody who would pay spot-
cash and cart it away. Another neighbor
(comfortably off, four children) snapped-
up this bargain. Never has his home
been so well organised. On arrival home
the kids produce their homework ; as soon
as it is complete and correct they can
watch television. Any defaulters have to
make good in another room. After
dinner Mum and Dad have a quiet look
while the kids wash-up, after which the
kids take over. Dad thinks the pro-
grammes are mediocre too, but he
reckons it’s the best £l5O he ever spent.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Warick”: Just when I’d repaired the
back of the dictionary—about the weight
of four bricks—with a piece of denim
trousers I read “Pymm’s” par. about an
“arindinaceous” path (B. 20/ 3 / ’57); but
after being manoeuvred with great care
the diet, was silent on the matter. What
sort of a path was it ?
[A reedy path; you should have looked
it up under “arundinaceous”; sorry. But
what a relief for you to find that your diet.,
having broken its back, has not also lost its
memory! ]
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tom Trout” (London): A Saturday-
afternoon stroll in a Rome suburb
brought me to a small man barneying
with the traffic on a fairly busy road.
With a British lift to my eyebrow I
passed him. Two gesticulating figures
leapt out of doorways, seemingly to
suggest I should reduce myself to pave-
ment-level. I kept on. One ran across
and with apologetic pushes asked me to
keep out of sight for a minute, while
they took a film-shot. I did ; but every
time the bloke in the road managed ‘.o
stop a car, two others would speed past.
Why, I asked my guide, hadn’t they got
the police to control the traffic? He
w r aved that away . . . not > worth it for
such a piccolo- shot. When I left half-
an-hour later the little fellow was stiil
gyrating in the middle of the road, but
the camera hadn’t turned once. Oh well,
Rome wasn’t built in a day.
CHANGE OF RECREATION
“Exchange, grey top hat, excellent condition,
Zeiss binoculars, lor three-speed record-
changer.”—Sydney suburban paper.
The emerald sward of Paddock he
Had trod on many a leisured tour,
The bluebloods of the Turf to see;
The thundering hooves his grand
allure.
Habilitated perfectly,
Of everyone the cynosure.
To be the very “mould of fashion”
Became with him a major passion.
His pins were elegantly encased
In pin-striped strides with knife-edged
crease ;
The cravat that so neatly graced
His collar was a masterpiece ;
His spats were in the best of taste.
No slightest tailoring caprice
Marred the effect. All was so proper,
Including, naturally, his topper.
It was at once his joy and pride,
That splendid cylinder of grey,
Which lent the look so dignified,
And what the French call distingue.
When doffed, one glimpsed the silk inside.
Its wearer’s worth it must convey.
Armed with his Zeiss for swift inspection,
He was the punter to perfection.
Alas I As Rome and Carthage fell,
So fell this modern Brummell theref
The hard-voiced bookies tolled his knell'
They virtually stripped him bare.
And all that he had left to sell
Among his trappings debonair
Was that grey cady elongated,
And the binocs. that Zeiss created.
Where heretofore it was his norm
To study jockey, place and weight,
And heaps of records as to form
Of mokes which proved too slow of
gait,
The Randwick where the punters swarm
Will see him not. Records he’ll rate
(Other mugs, too, might see sense in it)
Only in terms of revs, per minute.
n.s.w.
S. W. K.


SNOB-DODGER
By P. SABER
ALL the way down from
the Hill he is, and a
thirst on him that would
choke a saint, so he’s
not talking much apart from
asking for a refill periodically.
Right down the end of the
clubhouse, leaning on the bar,
with one foot on the brass rail
in classical attitude, he looks
a proper doer ; hat on the back
of his head, ugly face pointing
at the ceiling most of the time,
big frame bent and folded into
awkward angles: he couldn’t
be anything other than what he
is, which of course is a shearer.
For back in the Hill, Bronco
is classified as a gun, a title not
easily won in that corner, and
one rarely given to a stylist
such as Bronco; but he’s a
fellow who, besides dolling-up
and pinking his sheep, can pelt
down quite a few too, as many
a fast snagger discovered to his
sorrow. And Bronco always
puts them to shame, not so
much because of the number
he shears as the way he shears
them. He has the old-time
temperament you know,
quality before tally, and tally
before cheque, and as any
grazier will tell you that’s
pretty rare these days. But
that’s been Bronco’s style all
along ; even when he was learn-
ing he’d rather shear two sheep
well than four sheep rough.
. Which is one excellent reason
why Bronco’s down in Yanga,
for there’s no gainsaying the
sheep in Broken Hill are rough
and hard to pretty-up and
Bronco’s come down for a bit
of coasting and holidaying in
some easy sheep. Quite a few
crossbreds around Yanga and a
lot of soft-woolled, easy-cutting
Merinos, and it being August
and pens going begging, Bronco
reckons he's home and hosed
for a big cheque and a
pleasant time.
For two hours he cele-
brates the fact that he still has
some money on the hip from
the Hill, that the beer is good
and that the prospects are
better. For two hours he
stands at the bar, emptying
schooners until his big slow
body seems to become more
cumbersome and harder to
support. For two hours he
talks to the publican or to any-
one that comes near him, until
his tongue feels stiff and diffi-
cult to manipulate in his mouth,
and his thoughts seem to be
coming more slowly and less
brightly even than usual,
although to those who know
him this may seem impossible.
For despite many talents,
Bronco is no Rhodes Scholar.
Still, after two hours of solid
and thirsty beer-drinking any-
one is entitled to be fuddled ;
but Bronco is one of those
unfortunates who appear grog-
logged even after a two-month
camp on a waterhole in the
Territory and, on such a
foundation, alcohol seems'
doubly potent. Probably if he
hadn’t been half-stewed at the
time he’d have been more
careful when old Faggotter
approached him, and wouldn’t
have got into trouble in the
first place, but the fact is that
he is nicely charged and dopier
than a horse with a gutful of
Darling Pea when Faggotter
walks in looking for a shearer.
the first man
he approaches is Brady,
the publican, and Brady, who
knows the flintlike, dried-out,
money-hungry old farmer,
realises that there will be no
more trouble to him in this
visit than money in his till, so
he is not effusive in his
welcome.
“No shearers around that I
know of,” he tells Faggotter
in reply to his query. “August
is a bad time to be looking for
shearers. You want to book
’em up if you’re August-
shearing.”
“Did book ’em up,” says
Faggotter in a grumbly sort erf
a way, “but one of ’em never
turned up. I started today with
four and thought the other
chap might come later, but he
never did.”
“Can’t you carry on with
four and let it go at that?”
asks Brady.
“Well, you see, I booked on
an extra rouseabout,” lamented
the old man, “and he signed
on and I can’t sack him and
I’ve got no shearer to cover
his wages.”
“Yes,” says Brady scornfully,
“I reckoned it would be some-
thing like that. Well, I don’t
know what you’re going to do.
I know nobody who’d be any
good to you. Unless you try
that feller down there,” he
adds, pointing to Bronco. “He
could be a shearer.”
“Yes,” agrees Faggotter, “he
looks the type all right ; but he
mightn’t be a shearer at all, or
if he is he mightn’t be any
good. You can’t tell just by
looking at them.”
“No,” Brady answers, “you
can’t. That’s why you want to
go and ask him.”
“Ain’t much use asking him,”
grumbles the cocky. “All them
shearers is the same. Chop and
mangle their way through
forty-a-day and tell you they’re
Show-shearers. Told a feller
last year to get on his way.
Reckoned he could shear a
hundred and fifty a day.
Maybe he could. But he’d
killed two by smoke-oh and
you couldn’t get near his stand
for blood and guts, so I never
give him a chance to prove
himself.”
“Chances are this feller isn’t
even a shearer,” Brady reminds
Faggotter. “Anyway, please
yourself whether you ask him
or not. He’s the only likely
bird I’ve seen around, though.”
And Brady walks away.
{Continued on page 40)
C|o jf course Faggotter bowls
up and asks Bronco
straight out whether he’s a
shearer.
“My bloody oath I’m a
shearer,” boasts Bronco. “I’m
the best shearer in New South
Wales. Everybody knows me.
J’m Bronco McKeogh, the
man that rung Braetling Downs
two years running.”
Not even in his most
optimistic moments had old
Faggotter bargained on
striking anything as good as
this, but he’s still very wary.
“How many can you shear?”
he demands.
“More’n you can muster, old
feller,” boasts Bronco again,
“and faster’n you can drag ’em
out.”
And Faggotter, working on
the principle that even if he
wasn’t a shearer, he at least
sounded like one, decided then
and there to start him, so he
pulls out the contract-form.
Now one thing every shearer
is very cautious of is signing
on to shear sheep without
getting at least a look at them
first, for quite often the sheep
are of such a calibre that at
award-rates and with fine
weather a shearer can just make
wages for himself, but if it
blows up wet, then he is in
proper trouble.
Bronco knows this better
than anybody, for he’s been
caught once or twice, but
whether he thinks that being
"Do you really think I'm Worth two pigs ?”


POLITICAL POINTS
It used to be “Join the U.A.P. and see
the world.” Now all you have to do is
Landa Ministerial job like McGrath’s
and in no time you’re Downing tools and
off to London.
• - •
What did Gair mean when he said
that O. L. Josephson, his partner in the
Formosan petrol plan, was “just as
creditable and reputable as other people
engaged in the oil-industry with whom I
have come in contact”?
• •
A prize of one treacle-mounted jelly-
bean goes to Les Haylen for the best
tongue-in-cheek effort of the current
Federal session: “Labor was indeed
proud to have a fact-finding committee
under the impartial chairmanship of the
honorable member for East Sydney
(Mr. Ward).”
• •
The Federal Government is dropping
hints in the right quarters to let the
N.S.W. and Victorian Governments know
that it might be prepared to give them
financial aid in their programme to
convert the Melbourne-Albury railway-
line to standard gauge.
There’s a strong hope of a compromise
on costs whereby the Commonwealth
will put up £2 for the States’ £l.
Although the Wentworth committee
recommended that the work should be
spread over five years, some committee
members now believe the job can be done
in less than four.
• •
“Civic”: Brian Martin, Registrar of
the A.C.T. Supreme Court, goes to the
pictures just often enough to believe that
the Hollywood version of U.S. court-
room-scenes is highly exaggerated. After
sitting as a commissioner at proceedings
in a “billion-dollar case” involving some
U.S. radio corporations he’s not so sure.
For four hours he watched two “Guys
and Dolls”-attired U.S. lawyers, who
persisted in parading up and down the
small courtroom gesticulating wildly,
leaning on the witness-box, browbeating,
cajoling and shouting “Objection!” All
the ranting was against one witness —
Customs Comptroller - General Frank
Meere, who rather quaintly (the Ameri-
cans seemed to think) refused to produce
a confidential Cabinet minute.
• •
Although Cahill belatedly agreed to
join Bolte in a High Court appeal against
uniform taxation, it appears that since
the Brisbane conference he has modified
his views. What he now desires is “not
abolition, but a better method of distri-
bution.” Same uniform ; new buttons.
• •
At question-time Fadden was asked
about a Sydney taxation-agent who
allegedly claimed to have lodged thou-
sands of fake income-tax returns. He
replied that he hadn’t heard of the par-
ticular case but that members could rest
assured that no one could dodge the tax-
collector for ever. “We get ’em when
they die.”
•. o
“Quorum”: Members on both sides of
Parliament are taking another look at
Richard Gardiner Casey, the Minister
with the impeccable voice who prefaces
all his question-time replies with an old-
worldly “Mr. Speaker, Sir.”. Some time
ago there was the answer on the myxo-
matosis problem in which Casey replied
that rabbits had “interesting breeding
habits —yes, most interesting.” It hap-
pened again last week in a reply to Dave
Drummond (C.P., N.S.W.), who sought
C.5.1.R.0. help in the farmer’s battle
against the “itch-mite” —a parasite which
gets under the sheep’s skin and, accord-
ing to Drummond, “makes life a misery.”
Casey spun into his answer with: “I am
not nearly so well acquainted with itch-
mite as I should like to be . . .”
• •
Nye Bevan, speaking in India:
The House of Commons is a very old
institution, but democracy is not as old as
Parliament. The Churchills were in
Parliament for very many centuries before
the Bevans arrived and brought a certain
civilising influence there.
• •
N. S. Wales Miners’ Federation is
challenging the power of the Common-
wealth Industrial Court to exercise
judicial powers. The court was established
after the High Court’s decision that the
old Commonwealth Arbitration Court
could not combine arbitral and judicial
powers. The Privy Council recently
upheld the High Court decision. Counsel
for the Miners’ Federation raised the
point last month when South Coast
colliery-owners asked the court to grant
an order requiring the federation to
admit new members. The court reserved
its decision both on counsel’s argument
and the application.
• •
“Caucus”: Doc. Burton invited Doc.
Evatt to the official opening of Morgan's
Left-wing bookshop in Canberra because
Doc. Evatt “reads books.” Said Doc.
Burton to inquisitive newsman: “I didn’t
invite Mr. Menzies because he doesn’t
read books.” Well, who’d have thought
it? Of course, Evatt now denies that he
was going to officiate at the opening or
that Labor stalwarts ordered him to stay
away.
• o
Tasmanian A.L.P. conference decided
to ask for restoration of c.-0.-l. adjust-
ments on all wages paid under State
awards ; last year the Tasmanian wages-
boards suspended the adjustments.
Premier Cosgrove told the conference
that restoration would cost his Govern-
ment £1 million a year and he warned
that such a move would put many men’s
jobs in danger through limited finance.
• •
Periodical floodings in N.S.W.* play
havoc with communications, and there
will be much appreciation of the P.M.G.
decision to install an emergency radio-
telephone network, with repeater stations
at Yarrahapinni, Vincent’s Lookout,
Boyles Hill, Meerschaum, Cabbage Tree
Mountain, Parrot’s Nest and Terranora
Lodge. The stations, in difficult terrain,
will maintain a “line of sight” service,
and should prove highly valuable. But
in the meantime, what’s being done about
flood-prevention?
• •
“Lobby” (from Canberra):
The Federal Government is preparing to per-
suade Britain to keep out of the European Free
Trade Area. Misgivings of six months ago have
hardened to a real anxiety that Britain’s move
could harm Australian trade.
Canberra discounts assurances that the U.K.
will enter the scheme only on certain conditions,
such as the exclusion of agricultural products
from the plan. It is expected that the
Government will put a case to G.A.T.T. against
the Free Trade Area. Australia believes the
scheme strikes at the very basis of G.A.T.T.—
the removal of tariff barriers by all its 46
member-countries.
That Federal Cabinet is considering the
G.A.T.T. approach is a clear indication of the
Government’s deep concern. It is even predicted
that Australia would be prepared to gang-up
in G.A.T.T. against Britain with other countries
not proposing to join the Free Trade Area.
Federal Cabinet is still on the outer with
many Government supporters following last
year’s decision to assist denominational schools
in the Australian Capital Territory.
Backbenchers are interested in an announce-
ment by the chief secretary of the Victorian
Protestant Federation, Rev. Walter Albiston,
that the federation’s solicitors have been
instructed to oppose the grant on the basis that
it contravenes section 116 of the Constitution.
This section says: “The Commonwealth shall
not make any law for establishing any religion,
or for imposing any religious observance, or
for prohibiting the free exercise of any religion,
and no religious test shall be required as a
qualification for any office or public trust under
the Commonwealth.”
The federation claims the Commonwealth’s
decision to pay interest of up to 5 per cent, for
20 years to assist the building of denominational
non-residential schools in the A.C.T. is a breach
of section 116.
THE SPHINX
The Sphinx
Sits in the sand and thinx,
And thinx, and thinx.
We watch the Gaza Strip with troubled
eyes.
It’s no surprise
To him, the Sphinx,
He’s old and wise.
The world, he thinx,
Stinx.
VICTORIA.
MARY ELLIS.


and worked out by Asians themselves “on
the principles adumbrated at Bandoeng.”
The Communists haven’t been able to
match the Western programmes, and they
me therefore suggesting that all help has
“strings.” If this view is accepted, and it
may be in some at least of the countries
now taking our aid, then much of our
money will have gone down the drain.
No one has commented on the gross
favoritism shown by Menzies to a
Liberal State Government. By trans-
ferring 1000 civil servants from Mel-
bourne to Canberra he will be easing
Boite’s housing shortage but not Cahill’s.
• •
The ease with which the Federal Gov-
ernment made the decision to transfer
these people from Melbourne to
Canberra and provide homes for them
there suggests that the simplest solution
to Australia’s housing shortage would be
to shift all Commonwealth public
servants to Canberra.
• • •
Sydney Labor Council’s anxiety to see
its assistant-secretary J. D. Kenny take
the slow boat to China looks a trifle
suspicious. Kenny, a Right-winger,
opposed the sending of the A.C.T.U.
delegation to the Peking May Day shivoo,
then found himself named as Labor
Council member of the delegation. He’s
asked to be excused on health grounds.
• •
Although the two causes he is defend-
ing are bad ones, Gair must be com-
mended for refusing to accept dictation
from outside Parliament. However, this
does not mean that commendation should
go as far as Opposition-leader Nicklin is
reported to have gone—to offer con-
sideration of forming a joint Government
with Gair in the event of his expulsion
from the Labor party. After all, the two
notorious bills were introduced by Gair,
not Bukowski.
• •
Suez Canal—oh, Jubilee! —is to be
opened a day ahead of schedule this week,
a veritable triumph for the U.N. and its
American commanders. But it will remain
a lonely place. The great nations 1 ' ship-
ping cos. are not going to risk costly
vessels in it (1) till they are sure it is
safe, (2) till a satisfactory arrangement is
made with Nasser, who will find very
shortly as his friends dwindle that Soviet
Union guarantees of protection don’t feed
and clothe Egyptians or provide a luxury
tourist trade.
• •
The Bank of New South Wales cele-
brates its J4oth anniversary this week.
Congratulations on 140 years of free-
enterprise service (real pioneer service) to
the community!
• •
Voting for the Kahibah (N.S.W.) by-
election takes place on Saturday. With
four candidates in the field the result will
probably depend on preferences. At the
general election a year ago the official
A.L.P. candidate led on the first count
with 7238 votes against Independent
Laborite Armstrong’s 6195 and Liberal
Richley’s 5129. Armstrong received 86
per cent. of. Richley’s preferences and
won easily. This time, with . a D.L.P.
candidate in Armstrong’s place, the
Labor vote will split along different lines.
Richley will probably get ’some of the
votes which formerly went to Armstrong,
and there'll be a scuffle among the three
"NOW IS THE HOUR...."
main candidates to avoid filling third-
place at the end of the primary count.
There being no chivalry in politics, it is
assumed the Independent Etheline James
will run last.
• •
Sydney “Telegraph” headline; “Union
chief told to go to China.” That’s
nothing to where some of ’em have been
told to go.
• •
“Caucus”; Evatt proclaims that he
won’t “run away” from Barton. But
who said anything about running? More
likely he’ll simply drift—in time to con-
test the next Federal poll—into Martin
or West Sydney, held by Groupers
O’Connor and Minogue, either, or both,
of whom will get the axe if the party’s
Left-wing can arrange it. One of the
Doc.’s dearest admirers had the answer
if his leader sticks to Barton. “All the
fighting in the world couldn’t get him
into the next Parliament.”
• • •
“Wusslean”: Following the latest
escape of two prisoners—one a lifer —
from Pentridge, the Victorian- Govern-
ment is reported to be starting immedi-
ately on “sweeping new proposals” to
tighten security at the jail. A sounder
alternative would be to transfer the rela-
tively few really dangerous inmates to a
new, small jail where their activities can
be properly watched, and convert the
present establishment into an “honor-
system” prison. Judging by the
ease with which outsiders have
access to Pentridge, and the facility
with which insiders have been able
to arm themselves and depart, most
of the inhabitants must be willing to
obey rules and serve their time there
placidly enough. If they weren’t, there’d
have been a mass exodus from the joint
long ago.
• •
In the final wash-up by Army Minister Cramer
it seems that the total cut in the Commonwealth
Military Forces will be 28,300 men—to 50,700.
Units will be disbanded as National Trainees
are reduced; the Regular Army strength will
be maintained at 21,000, the R.A.N. at 11,000
and the R.A.A.F. will increase from 15,000 to
16,275. The troops will not have the new
F.N. rifle till 1959, and the Field Force will
have preference in modernisation. The cut isn’t as
severe as the British plans, which call for reduc-
tion of the armed forces from 700,000-odd to
375,000 by 1962. And it isn’t going to reduce
the £190,000,000 defence vote. Fighter aircraft
are “very expensive”; each Starfighter 104 is
likely to hit the taxpayer up for about £BOO,OOO
—and may last only 104 min. on war service if it
meets a rocket at the outset.


PERSONAL ITEMS
NEW JOB
A BOVE, W. L. Burch, chief-inspector
of T. and G. Society’s branches in
Australia and New Zealand, after 14
years as South Australian manager. He
joined the society in Victoria, in 1920,
worked in S.A. from 1922 to 1927 and
returned as manager after 15 years,
whacked-up between Queensland, N. S.
Wales and New Zealand. So he’s fairly
well known in business and sporting
circles down a wide slice of ea-stern Aus-
tralasia. The sporting interests are golf
and racing. After some years on the
committee of the Royal Adelaide Golf
Club, he was captain 1953-54, and was
president of the S.A. Golf Association
1955-56.
• •
Sir Thomas White, whom everybody
in politics and the R.A.A.F. knows as
Tommy, has found his feet again in Mel-
bourne after feeling like a New Aus-
tralian on his return from five years as
High Commissioner in London, and is
moving into a maisonette from his elegant
house in Domain-road, in South Yarra’s
Golden (euphemism for expensive)
Mile.
When he put his house up at auction
two weeks ago, it brought only £24,500,
not reaching the reserve. It has 19 rooms,
including a ballroom, central heating, a
tennis-court, extensive basements and
storerooms, and was one of Desborough
Annear’s pleasantest designs. The tide
of upkeep, though, is running against
grace and space in houses, unless the
owner lets them room by room at
exorbitant rents.
Since his return he has been invited on
to the boards of a number of companies,
has taken on the presidency of the Royal
Empire Society, and is currently being
• pressed to lend his engaging, gregarious
personality to an Australian branch of the
Escaping Society, which is exclusively Air
Force. Tommy White, who was one of
the first Australians trained here to fly on
active service, escaped from Turkey in
the First World War. In the last show
he was a group-captain.
Discussing the other day Air Vice-
Marshal McCauley’s references to the
earliest Australian aircraft having a
minus-speed in a stiff breeze (B. 27/3/’57)
White said, “Of course they had! - You
had to fly almost at ground-level,
especially when you had a bomb to throw
down, and all hands could have a pot-shot
at you.” Forty years later the indignity
still tinged his voice with indignation,
and no wonder.
• e
Passed on in Sydney, Colonel William
Kennedy, M.8.E., M.C., M.S.M. He
was the original R.S.M. of the old 12th
Bn. (his regimental number was No. 1)
and when the Adjutant, Captain North-
cott (now Sir lohn Northcott, Governor
of New South Wales), was severely
wounded at the Landing, Kennedy was
commissioned in the field and took-over
as Adjutant. In the campaigns of
Gallipoli and France, as an officer of the
12th and 52nd Bns., Kennedy proved
himself a fine “front-line soldier.” Here
is Bean’s comment, in the Official
History :
A man of slow speech and few words,
but entirely dependable in a tight corner,
and thoroughly trained, having been an
instructor in the Australian Permanent
Forces.
Bill Kennedy was one of a very small
band of the old A.I. Staff to reach the
rank of full Colonel.
• •
“Uramao”: The annual Hubert
Church and Jessie Mackay awards, given
by the New Zealand centre of the P.E.N.
Club, this year go to James Courage
(H.C. award) for his novel The Young
Have Secrets, and Paula Henderson
(J.M.) for her volume of poetry,
Unwilling Pilgrim.
• •
“B.JX.”: Can agree with “E.A.” (B.
20/3/’57) that J. S. Lipscomb had a
sense of fair play. An argument as to
which batsman would be out developed
in the Sporting pages of the February
Bulletins. J.S.L. was prepared to bet a
Casket-ticket on his version, which I re-
futed with other instances. J.S.L. took
the matter to a Queensland umpire, who,
as is often the case, judged us both half-
right. J.S.L. bought that Casket-ticket in
both names and forwarded my share of
the proceeds (we won 40-quid) per The
Bulletin office. I visited Brisbane four
days after receiving the bank-draft, to
learn that J.S.L. had passed on. He
seems to have been the type of chap it is
a pleasure to know, and I deeply regretted
just missing him in this strange manner.
• •
“A J.B ”: At it again! Bulletin claim
(27/ 2 / ’57) for George Pape for the N.S.W.
Supreme Court Bench having failed, an-
other theft at Victoria’s expense has been
detected, this time on the M.O.L. Page.
You have, as judge of Large White pigs
at the Sydney Royal, C. T. Harrison,
East Side, Pornborneit (N.S.W.). Correct
to Pornborneit (Vic.), in Victoria’s
Western District, between Colac and
Camperdown.
• •
Frank Norton (herewith) was bom at
Gisborne (N.Z.), came to Australia three
years later, and did his art-training at
East Sydney Tech., where he now teaches.
Both as a civilian and as official Naval
artist he has been around a good deal,
beginning in 1935, as a civvy, on board
H.M.A.S. Brisbane, from Sydney to
Fremantle —the ship’s last voyage. A
couple of years later he went on Aus-
tralia’s N.Z., cruise as a guest of Com-
mander (then) A. H. Spurgeon ; to Singa-
pore in Canberra, as Rear-Admiral Lane
Poole’s guest; and had short periods in
Yarra and Stuart. In 1941, as official
Naval artist, in H.M.A.S. Sydney around
the Australian coast; then various ships
NAVAL ARTIST
in the Med., back to Navy House, and a
spell in Tobruk during the siege. In Army
uniform, with three pips up, with No. 3
R.A.A.F. Squadron in the Western
Desert; in H.M.A. ships Cairns, Nizam,
Napier and Quiberon. Then the Eastern
Fleet, from one ship to another, and in
Kanimbla, Westralia, Shropshire and
Arunta off the Philippines. In 1952, as
O.N.A. (Lieut.-Commander, S.P., R.A.N.
V.R.), he was in a variety of ships off
the west coast of Korea. He has illus-
trated a number of books, including war-
time Service ones and McKie’s Proud
Echo, and is author and illustrator of
Fighting Ships of Australia and New
Zealand. A second book, about
merchant-ships, is with the printers.
Swallowed the anchor, Captain John
Gilbertson, master of inter-State pas-
senger-ship Westralia. Born in a light-
house, he came to Australia in 1913 and,
six years later, began his 38 years un-
broken service in Australian waters with
the Huddart Parker line. He took the
bridge of his first command, the 3000-ton
freighter Yarra, in 1941.


After 53 years of country journalism
in Victoria, spread over eight papers,
David Reid, editor of the Nathalia
“Herald,” has called it a day.
• ■ •
Westralia’s principal Government
architect, A. E. Clare, has won the
bronze-medal and diploma of the Royal
Institute of British Architects for the
second time in 20 years. The first was
for the Perth Girls’ School in 1937 ; the
recent award, for the nursing-quarters
building of the King Edward Memorial
Hospital, which R.1.8.A. president Ken-
neth Cross described as remarkable for
its simplicity, dignity and color.
• •
Patrick White, author of Tree of Man,
had his first novel, Happy Valley, pub-
lished in 1939. Early that year he went
to America, writing another {The Living
and the Dead, published 1941), and
returned to England to join the R.A.F.
He was in the Middle East during the
war, in Intelligence, and, one way and
another, saw something of just about
every M.E. country. His third novel, The
Aunt’s Story, came out in 1948-49.
White considers himself a professional
novelist. One may quarrel with the
definition on the
ground that he has
private means, and
therefore doesn’t de-
pend on writing for
a livelihood (in
which case Tolstoy,
and other famous
names, would also
be excluded), but
there is no doubt he
is a serious writer.
Early in life it
seemed likely he
would go on the
land (he belongs
to the N. S. W.
Hunter Valley
family; his father
was Victor M.
White, one of the
original partners in
Belltrees); then,
when he went to
Cambridge, the idea
was that he would
go into the diplo-
matic service. All
of which, of course,
gives him an excel-
lent background as
a writer.
Now 44, he has
been back in Aus-
tralia nine years,
after living in Lon-
don and in various
European countries.
He lives at Castle
Hill, in Sydney’s
semi-rural outskirts,
breeds Schnauzer
dogs and Saanen
goats, and writes.
Whether Tree of
Man is (as some
people claim) the
Great Australian Novel or not, it
aroused a remarkable choir of critical
comment: some for, some against. Over-
seas reviews were, on the whole, very
good; the Australian ones, White said,
not so good. He said Vance Palmer was
the kindest Australian critic ; the poets,
by and large, handled him roughly. A
brief conversation left the impression of
a pleasant, cultured, highly intelligent
person, steering a clear course between
the twin faults of authors-in-the-flesh —
assertiveness and false modesty.
• •
One of the most travelled chairmen of
public businesses (they used to call them
These Restless Australians) is Norman
Robertson, currently in the U.S. after a
stop-over at Honolulu, who now runs
Mac. Robertson Pty., Ltd., and Colorprint
Pty., Ltd. Robertson has lately been
going abroad every two or three years,
usually with a full itinerary of business
visits in Britain, Europe and the U.S.
The business has expanded a good
deal since the Violet Milk days,
and has now become more self-
sufficient, with, among other things,
cocoa-plantations in New Guinea. A
handsome fellow, like his redoubtable
father, there is also a lot of him —he’s
NOVELIST
6ft. 2in. He is a versatile craftsman in
printing and photography and turns out,
in his home-workshop, workmanlike
furniture and toys that really work.
• •
The Rev. Dr. Thomas Thornton Reed,
Dean of Adelaide, will succeed Dr. Bryan
Robin (resigned last year) to become the
sixth Anglican Bishop of Adelaide. He’ll
be consecrated on St. Peter’s Day—June
29—in Adelaide’s St. Peter’s Cathedral, by
the Primate of Australia, Dr. H. W. K.
Mowll: previous Bishops of Adelaide, all
Englishmen, were consecrated in West-
minster Abbey. Adelaide-born, Dr. Reed
was a Second A.I.F. chaplain, has been
State Chaplain for Toe H, and editor
of the Adelaide “Church Guardian.”
His Adelaide Uni. D.Litt. was for a
thesis on Henry Kendall.
• •
“Doormat”: Melbourne’s bayside
suburb of Mordialloc has produced the
latest Victorian Moderator of the
Presbyterian Church in Sid Goddard, at
present minister of Scots Church in
Ballarat. From local schooling in
Mordialloc he went on to Melbourne
University, emerging an M.A. and
Bachelor of Divinity. With a travelling
scholarship, Goddard did post-graduate
work at Edinburgh Uni., and also got a
job as assistant in a church at Glasgow.
After charges at Bairnsdale and Caulfield
in Victoria, he joined the R.A.A.F. as
chaplain in Borneo and Labuan, and
also acted as transport chaplain between
Australia and America. With an interest
in youth, Goddard was for, 10 years
assistant youth-director for the Pres-
byterians. He is an examiner of the
College of Divinity and chairman of the
Ballarat Colleges for boys and girls, as
well as president of the Caledonian
Society and member of Rotary. He was
elected Moderator-designate at the recent
annual Victorian conference.
• •
Into the Silence:
In England, at 82, Dr. D. W. Carmalt Jones,
former Professor of Systematic Medicine at the
University of Otago. He was a member of the
executive committee to plan the second meet-
ing of the Australasian Medical Congress in
Dunedin, in 1927, and first N.Z. vice-president
of the Australasian College of, Physicians.
At Hobart, at 49, Alan T. Cane, who had
been on the “Mercury” staff since 1929, and
associate-editor since 1949; he held the AJ.A.’s
gold honor-badge. He was also a director of
T. J. Cane and Co.. Ltd., the hardware concern,
which his father and uncles took-over in the
1890’s.
In Melbourne, at 89, John Sampson, Wimmera
farmer arid for a time part-proprietor of the
Box. Hill (Melbourne) “Reporter.” Prime
Minister Menzies is a nephew.
At Sunshine (Vic.), at 73, Headlie Shepard
Taylor, inventor of the header-harvester, which
permits harvesting of crops flattened by storms
and wind. A few days before his death he was
working on experimental farm-machinery.
Beginning his experiments in 1911, he exhibited
his first successful header-harvester at Henty
(N.S.W.) in 1915.
In Perth, at 64, John Joseph Prendergast,
Old Digger and leading accountant. Former
auditor of the R.S.L., Maimed and Limbless
Ex-Servicemen’s Association, and the W.A.
Trotting Association, he had also been auditor
for the West Perth Football Club, of which he
was a life-member.


ABORIGINALITIES
We Could Do With More Like Him
DICK has retired at last.
We were busy repacking sheep’s
overcoats into their bales in a Fremantle
woolstore when a stranger walked in.
He wore a nifty sort of hat and carried
a walking-stick, so we knew he could
not be a buyer, while his light-lavender
suit and electric-blue tie were a bit too
colorful for a member of the staff.
“Heavens above,” said Paddy, “it’s old
Dick, done up like a dog’s dinner!”
It was Dick all right, dressed in his
best in honor of an occasion. He had
come to say “Good-bye.”
“Legend has it there's a giant spider."
A good thing that he did, otherwise
we wouldn’t have known, and might have
missed him only by his continued
absence ; and it doesn’t seem right that
men like Dick, men whose work has
made Australia, should drop out into
the darkness without a sign.
He was bom in a tent in the Wimmera
(Vic.), was apprenticed as a 12-year-old
to a blacksmith, and duly became one,
and a good one, though he’s not much
over sft. and can’t weigh more than
about 7st.
He came over to Westralia and went
prospecting, took on clearing, fencing and
sucker-bashing and tried farming down
near Denmark, but floods ruined his
crops of spuds. Then he worked in
Perth at his trade, tried lumping on the
wharves, went up to the meatworks at
Wyndham as fitter-in-charge, then back
to the wharves.
He was secretary of the Lumpers’
Union when the last war broke out, and
all through the war.
That was when the Fremantle lumpers
gave ships the quickest turn-round in the
world, and were publicly thanked for it
by the U.S. Admiral.
Dick has held a commission in the
Salvation Army, been a member of the
Prison Gate Committee, has never drunk
a bottle of beer in his life and hasn’t
smoked since he was 20.
Now he will push no more wool back
into bales ; he has retired, still fit, at the
age of 85.
He was entitled to his little sartorial
display and the farewell-demonstration.
We could do with more like him.
PADDY'S MATE.
C|TONE the crows! Lipstick on the
mouthpiece of the waterbag at the
drafting-yards. Stone the bloody crows!
—“Taroom.”
* * * *
“Manamoi”: Midsummer nonsense in
W.Q. First, the station-chooks nesting
among leaves and grass blown in under
a l° w building. The eggs impossible to
collect; so the area is netted-off and
hens forced to lay elsewhere, but the
site and hot weather combine to produce
incubation Much crawling around and
taking-up the floorboards and chicks are
The pvirteH mothers now make
rescued. Ihe evicted mothers now make
" esls " direct sunhght-anywhere rather
* ha " the ' r proper yards-and the fierce
heat partly cooks the eggs. The cowboy,
w ho’s also fowl-boy, newly-arrived from
Scot i and> greatly Astonished by these
daft happenings. His misgivings in-
creased when turkey-gobbler begins
brooding devotedly on a nest of pebbles.
The last straw turns-up, appropriately,
in the haystack—a broody hen fondly
mothering beneath her wings a litter of
kittens. Plenty for young Scotty to
write home about.
* * * *
“Metax”: Know a nor’-west Tassie
cocky who reduces his fencing-costs by
pegging his route one season ahead ; in
each post-position he plants one carrot-
seed. When he removes the mature
vegetable—using the block-and-tackle
which has become standard equipment
for the purpose in a district claimed to
be the most fertile in Australia —all he
has to do is drop the post in and ram
it. It’s a wonder nobody thought of it
before.
* * * *
“Sebak”: They will mix. To make
beautifully soft and pliant an animal skin
that tanning has rendered stiff and hard,
take equal quantities of auropole oil
and water. The oil is of the consistency,
and appearance, of summer honey. And
the mixture works.
* * * *
“Fairf”: I’d been working hard all
the scorching morning, and at lunch-
time the shade of the wattle was like an
oasis in a desert. Half-a-dozen sand-
wiches and four pannikins of tea later I
dozed off. I gradually woke with a feel-
ing that something warm and wet and
rough was being drawn across my fore-
head . . . sweat is mainly salt, of
course, but it’s come to something when
a moke starts to treat a bloke’s nut like
a lump of rock-salt.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Green wings and yellow
bodies make soldier-beetles attractive
insects, but they’re so numerous that their
beauty is likely to be overlooked. At
certain times they swarm in vast numbers
along the N.S.W. coast, but seem to do
no harm to the trees and plants on which
they cluster. Apparently in their winged
phase they eat nothing at all.
• * * *
“Silky-Oak”: It was my first time
aboard one. My leaning forward coin-
cided perfectly with the horse’s sudden
raising of its head, and I realised that the
equine skull is made of cast-iron. When
I dismounted I reported that several teeth
had been loosened. Charlie, the ancient
employed on the sheep-station at which I
was a visitor, took a handful of saltpetre
and told me to clamp my teeth on it and
keep ’em clamped. That was years ago;
I still have them.
* * * *
“Kelms”: After 20 years at the game
I can claim to be an “experienced budgie-
breeder,” and I can assure “Fair Mac”
that hen budgies do “continue laying for
weeks” (B. 13/3/’57). I’ve had five nest-
lings and a dozen eggs in the nest at once,
all the work of one pair; and then there


MONDAY
TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY
Sunday


“ I've opened the garage-doors , dear."
wasn’t much room, or need, for the hen
to sit on the eggs, except at night. Even
then she probably entered the nest as
much for her own comfort as for the
sake of the eggs. As for the feeding-
method, whether the food is “popped” or
“pumped” into the mouth—either word
is suitable—the initial procedure is the
same ; the nestling with its mouth open
gets the food, and if there’s any reluctance
the parent passes to the next beak.
* * * *
The bitter winds that howl
across the flats in winter between
Dongara and Geraldton (W.A.) can have
queer effects on the flooded-gums that
dot that inhospitable landscape. It is
not uncommon to see a sapling grow
normally for about 10ft., turn downwards
at a sharp angle and grow along the
ground for several feet, then the end
turn upwards again in an effort to reach
the normal vertical growth.
* *
“324”: While waiting at a Darling
River pub for a shearing-shed to start
operations, Doug went out, sans rifle or
traps, to get meat for the pub-dogs, kept
tied-up because of sheep moving about.
When he returned with a good bag
Watty, a local squatter, was at the bar,
and asked how he had got them. Ran
em down, said Doug, and stuck to his
story. Next winter the shearer was again
at the pub waiting to start. To kill time
he went fishing and caught half-a-dozen
bream. He had just strung them together
when his flattie hit a snag and went
over, and Doug went to the bottom,
gripping his catch. He scrambled ashore
and, wet and shivering, made for the pub,
where Watty the squatter was again
leaning on the bar. Watty took one
screw at the bedraggled victor and
victims in the doorway and remembered
the rabbits of last year. “Strike me,
Doug,” he gasped, “have you been
swimming ’effi down this time?”
* * * *
“Wester”: A local donnybrook
landed the two main-eventers in the out-
back one-cell lock-up. A third disturber
of the peace was soon on his way. “But
I wasn’t fighting,” he protested hotly;
“I was only the referee.” “Well, that’ll
be 0.K.,” said the Law, as he shoved
him through the watch-house door.
“There’s your two pugs. Get into it! ” *
* * * *
“R.”: What is rated as the largest chisel-
plough in the world has been made by
Napier Bros., of Dalby (Q.). It is fitted
with spring-compression tynes for work-
ing among stumps or roots, cuts an over-
all width of 62ft., has hydraulic and
manual controls, and 14 wheels for con-
trol of depth. Weighing 9 tons, it has
been bought by King Ranch, Kingsville,
Texas (U.S.A.), the home of the Santa
Gertrudis cattle.
* * * *
“Bass”: In Perth suburbs where
Argentine-ants are being sprayed there
isn’t a fly, ant or cockroach to be seen
for weeks after the spraying ; then, just
as you’re beginning to think a permanent
cure has been effected, the flies come
back. Soon they’re worse than ever —the
ants which ate their eggs having been
eliminated, and, as well, their food-supply
increased. A more noticeable absentee has
been the willy-wagtail. He hasn’t been
poisoned, as some assume ; he’s simply
moved on in search of food. Fortunately
the spraying doesn’t take place during this
bird’s breeding-season, because they’re
strongly territorial, and theq a pair
couldn’t move out of their territory in
search of food without risking a fight.
But at this time of the year they can
move around pretty much as they like,
and they frequently leave a locality for
a couple of months. They’ll be back
after the first rains.
* * * *
“Old Opencut”: Recalled by Alex
Black’s separator-boiler yarn (B.
13/3/’57), the ancient plant on the gold-
show, where I’d started as engineer,
included a brick-lagged Cornish-boiler
which steamed a winch hauling side-
tippers from an opencut. It had a dead-
weight safety-valve—a~ series of heavy
cast-iron rings sitting on the valve and
compensating the pressure. Old-age had
reduced the rings to two. The regular
fireman, missing on a Monday hangover,
was replaced by a surface-hand. Some
hours later I noticed a cloud of steam
coming from the isolated boiler-house,
and investigated. I couldn’t read the
pressure-gauge for the steam blowing
from every seam, rivet and stay, but I did
see the bricks piled on the safety-valve.
I closed the damper and the ashpit-doors
before I “Landyed” through, found the
acting-fireman on the ashheap and
pushed him over the top of the dump. In
comparative safety at the bottom, I
demanded an explanation. “That thing
on top?” he said. “Aw, it’s been leakin’
all the mornin’. I had to keep puttin’
bricks on it to stop it 1 ”
DANCE OF THE MATAI
The dignified Matai, with his solemn
stately tread,
Walks in lonely wisdom, and his head
Remains unturned
To the chattering of children passing by.
A group of laughing girls is divided, and
it flows
Rippling in the sun-warm breeze that
blows
Sea-fresh and clean;
And the girls are silent as they meet his
eye.
Dark blue lavalava, silver hair,
Big brown body, and brown feet
bare,
Pride in his bearing, pride in his face,
Proud of his lineage and proud of his
race,
The Matai goes by.
He meets another gentleman in similar
array,
Wise and proud and stately, on his way
To visit friends ;
And as men of equal rank and equal
birth,
They pause to greet each other, their
voices deep and low.
Gentle as their handshake, soft and slow
And full of grace ;
Then something stated moves them both
to mirth.
, High-pitched yodelling, falsetto high;
High-pitched giggle and hard-slapped
thigh ;
Dignity surrenders, as dignity must,
When big brown children dance in
the dust,
“O le siva a Matai."
samoa.
JOHN O'GRADY.


A T piccaninny-dawn every morning the
old man who sleeps under the house
at the station-homestead goes upstairs
and does the rounds, shaking awake each
member of the family. Then one of them
has to rise and make morning-tea. The
pet kangaroo isn’t yet quite up to that.
—“Wester.”
* * * *
“J. 8.”: Bird-voices, is it? For weeks
after donning civvy clothes at the
end of the last stoush I was haunted by
a young currawong which sat well out
of reach in the big bunya-tree and cried,
in a coarse, reminiscent tone, “Corp’ril
B-ull! Corp’ril B-ull!” till I nearly went
off my nut.
* * * *
“V. R. Mac.”: No fewer than three
Australian birds —a parrot, a honeyeater,
and a bowerbird —rejoice under the
official name of Regent. All are conspi-
cuously colored, with black and yellow
predominating in each. Is it coincidence
that all have roughly the same color-
scheme, or had those colors some special
connection with the Regency period, dur-
ing which time a large proportion of our
birds were discovered and named?
* * * *
“Renraw”: Wouldn’t have believed
this if I hadn’t seen it, with a witness.
Strolling through the scrub, ' we dis-
turbed a tree-kangaroo. He made for
a near-by bluegum, shinned up the
smooth trunk with the agility of a lizard,
and settled high in the branches. Then a
bunch of cockatoos, hurtling into the tree-
top, apparently scared him, and he took-
off, lobbed on the ground something like
50ft. below, and, evidently unhurt,
headed into the undergrowth.
* * * *
“Q. Ree” (Fiji): I think it is just a
yarn that the first missionaries ran short
of type—hence Fijian spelling (B.
27/2/’57). The Fijians had no written
language and the missionaries had to
teach a people ignorant of the English
alphabet to read and write. There are
no f, h, j, p, q, x or z sounds in the Fijian
language, though f, j, and p are now used
in a few introduced words. There are
some combined sounds. B is never pro-
nounced without in, mb ; d without n, nd;
g without n (as in “sing”). These are
represented by b, d and g respectively.
There is also the ngg sound (as in
“finger”), represented by the otherwise
unused q. Th is also in the language and
is represented by c — as k and s eliminate
the need for that letter. The mission-
aries used single letters to represent these
combined sounds, not only to simplify the
spelling but also because their first
pupils put vowels between all conson-
ants. They would pronounce, say,
“N a n d i” “Nanandi,” but “Nadi”
“Nandi.” To me the system seems
“See you later , Joe —hold this for me!"
eminently sensible and is quickly picked-
up. Advocates of simpler English spel-
ling could learn a lot by studying the
work of these missionaries. One example,
though it gives a Fijian accent to it, is the
introduced word “motorcar.” What
could be better than “motoka”?
* * * *
“Rimutuka”: “H.E.S.” (B. 6/3/’57)
still has something to learn. Double-
gerberas do produce seed, though only
after selected plants have received special
treatment. I can vouch for 95 seeds from
one bloom this season. I have also
imported, and grown successfully, seed
from India. Double-seed does not
reproduce all double-blooms —average is
about 80 per cent. Neither does the seed
come true to the parent. As with rose-
culture, there’s always the chance of
that one new variety, that will send the
gardener scurrying to register it.
T IVING alone in a not-so-outer-suburb
of one of our capital-cities, she
heard a noise in the middle of the night,
and switched on the light to meet two
eyes peering around the bedroom-door,
about six inches from the floor a
goanna.
She sprang out of bed, grabbed
her underclothes and sprang back on the
bed. The goanna sized her up for a
minute or two, then leisurely waddled off
into the lounge. She closed the lounge-
door, then rang the zoo. “An eight-foot
goanna in your lounge! Take more
water with it, lady.”
She looked through the glass-door to
reassure herself.
The goanna was moving towards the
fireplace, so she smartly placed a picture
over the entrance and rang the police.
They, too, were sceptical, but a policeman
turned-up, and he in turn rang the zoo.
Two attendants arrived with a sugar-
bag. “You’ll never get an eight-foot
goanna in that sugar-bag,” she protested.
When they discovered the giant draped
halfway over the lounge they saw her
point. . . a frightening, frantic half-hour
was spent before the house was goanna-
free.
Later, inspecting the fireplace, she
found that the goanna had freely used his
private entrance, the lounge chimney. She
then remembered the soot and cement
she’d often swept-up from the hearth, and
the greasy marks where the goanna had
lazed in the sun while she was at work.
Folk in the neighborhood had for months
been losing fowls, eggs and so on.
He may have come to the city on a load
of wood, but you’d wonder how a 6ft.
goanna (official measurements) would
haye escaped notice. The .lady received
a very nice letter from the director of the
zoo thanking her for her gift of a rare
species and telling her she could at any
time call and see her pet.
KATE.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
ECONOMICS OF SECONDARY INDUSTRY
'AT this period of world
*** change the study of Aus-
tralia’s own economic future
becomes fascinating. Various
people, from the Duke of
Edinburgh downwards, have
been making prophetic remarks
about the broadening field
ahead of Australian enterprise
and industry. In Canada, too,
much speculative thought is
being given to that Dominion’s
future; so much so that a
Royal Commission on Canada’s
Economic Prospects was
appointed, and recently
delivered its report, a summary
of which was published in
The Bulletin.
Ia Australia nothing so
comprehensive or ' ambitious
has yet been undertaken ; but
Dr. Harold F. Bell, economist
to the A.M.P. Society, recently
delivered an address to the first
Australian Plastics Convention
that gave some studied estimates
of the. economics of secondary
industry.
Our Manpower
Beginning with manpower,
in the course of the lengthy and
careful address Dr. Bell said
that an outstanding charac-
teristic of the Australian work-
force at the present time is its
high rate of growth. Super-
imposed on a comparatively
high birthrate, Australia has
been pursuing an immigration
programme which, relative to
existing population, is easily
the world’s most ambitious
migration-intake. Australia, in
the post-war period, has taken
well over one million migrants,
a number exceeded only by
U.S.A. and Canada. If we
assume a continuance of a
birthrate not markedly changed
from the present, and a future
net migration rate of 50,000
per annum, the projected
population of Australia by
1965 should exceed eleven
million people.
Mere numbers, however, are
not the whole story ; the work-
force is largely composed of
those in the conventional range
of working-ages, usually taken
as between 16-65 for males,
with a narrower range for
females. But in Dr. Bell’s view,
a shortage of manpower is not
likely to be a factor deterring
the advance of Australian
secondary industry in the fore-
seeable future.
Skills Needed
Though Australia looks like
having an adequate work-force
in terms of numbers, it is by
no means certain that a suffi-
ciently high proportion of our
work-force will possess the
skills and techniques that will
be needed to match advances
in technological, progress else-
where. In the lower ranges of
skills some further realignment
of the wages-pattern may help
to change the situation. At
the higher ranges, particularly
at the research level, the extent
of the problem is less easily
defined and less readily over-
come.
Statements about the need
for a greater flow of research-
workers often invoke a certain
amount of public cynicism ;
but the pace of technological
progress around the world is
so great that there is in Aus-
tralia a very real danger that
this cynicism, if it is allowed
to stifle an adequate flow—
which means a greatly increas-
ing flow—of skilled technicians
could be a serious limiting
factor in secondary-industry
development.
“I do not know,” said Dr.
Bell, “what the future require-
ments in Australian secondary
industry for senior tech-
nologists are likely to be, but it
has been estimated that the
British requirement for
scientists (that is, chemists,
physicists and mathematicians)
should rise by 18 per cent, in
the next three years, whilst the
demand for engineers should
rise by as much as 30 per cent.
Although I have seen no
quantitative measure of our
own need in Australia, I am
sure it is going to be very high,
and I feel equally sure that we
are probably not doing enough
about it.”
The Money Factor
From men, to money. So
far as industry is concerned,
there are three sources: the
personal savings of the Aus-
tralian community, the inflow
of overseas finance, and
business savings or self-
financing. The indications are
that the savings performance
by Australians compares
reasonably well with that of
most other Western nations.
Nevertheless, it is Dr. Bell’s
conviction that there is such
a potentially large demand for
capital ahead of Australia that
every encouragement should be
given to raising the level of
personal savings. But, since
personal saving is today largely
in contractual forms, rapid or
spectacularly large increases
should not necessarily be
expected to follow.
Turning to overseas invest-
ment :
(a) The more finance —either of a
public or private nature —which we
receive from overseas the less will
be the strain on our own capital
iesources and, to this extent, there-
fore, a high volume of overseas
investment in this country should, at
least indirectly, assist in satisfying
the overall capital needs of
secondary industry.
{Jo) So far as private overseas
investment in this country is con-
cerned, it is, however, important
to remember that virtually the
whole of the current flow represents
direct investment in specific com-
panies (usually the Australian branch
or subsidiary of companies with
overseas parent companies or head
offices). There is, admittedly, still
some flow of funds for general
investment in Australian secondary
industry, but such investment seems
more or less confined to a fairly
small range of “glamor” stocks.
Finally, then, we are left
with savings by business them-
selves ; that is, the self-financing
which springs from retained
profits and depreciation pro-
vision. There is plenty of
evidence available to show that
in many countries (of which
the U.S.A. is a notable
example) the proportion of the
finance for secondary industry
which is generated within
industry itself is much higher
than in Australia, and we will
have little option but to follow
this trend. The extent to which
this form of capital-provision
can be developed does, of
course, depend largely on the
fiscal policy of Governments,
and it is of importance to the
future development of second-
ary industry in this country that
the policies to be followed by
Governments in this direction
should be enlightened ones.
If, as is probable, says Dr.
Bell, the organised capital
market cannot marshal finance
adequate for all the demands
(public, semi-public and private)
made on it, then industrial
expansion, and hence employ-
ment, may be frustrated if
fiscal policies are not conducive
to the ploughi.ng-back of
company-earnings into capital
investment.
Materials
With regard to raw materials,
the availability of locally-
produced materials is very
much better than it has been
at any stage of our great post-
war industrial expansion.
Nevertheless, in spite of the
expansion both in depth and
in width of our basic
industries, it seems inevitable
that a large component of the
materials to be used for
secondary industry will still
have to come from overseas,
and here it is not just a ques-
tion of physical availability, or
even of price, hut ultimately a
question of foreign exchange
with which to back our orders.
Partly due to marked changes
in our consumption habits,
partly due to the very pace of


C apt tit
\
QUEENSLAND
\
* A
NEW SOUTH WALES /
VICTORIA
*
"From
Cape York
to
Portland"-
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
CO MPA NY O F AUSTR A LI A LIMITED
clone provides such complete
Executor end Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman ,T. Carson. C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald. Albnry.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
' N.S.W. DIRECTORATE;
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman) •
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.: Bertram
J. F. Wright. M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: A. B. Tiiemahn. Assistant Manager: A. G. W.
Dent. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District Repre-
sentative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Speneeley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT23
secondary-industry expansion
itself, it seems likely that our
balance-of-payments situation
will need careful watching for
many years to come and that
the complete removal of physi-
cal controls on imports, how-
ever desirable that may seem
on some grounds, may in
practice prove difficult of
accomplishment.
Dr. Bell is well aware that
there are very real difficulties
confronting those who shape
our trade policies, difficulties
made particularly acute be-
cause our export income so
largely springs from products
which are especially vulner-
able to unpredictable changes
m climatic and world-market
factors, and also because the
pattern of our overseas trade
is such that there is a marked
discrepancy between what we
buy from, and sell to, many
of our best customers. At the
same time he thinks that a
trade policy which proceeds
in fits and starts —which offers
protection for a time and then
sudden removal, or vice versa
—is not conducive of long-
range planning on the part
either of industry or com-
merce, and in his view long-
range planning is essential
where markets are competitive.
Management
With regard to management,
Dr. Bell notes that many busi-
nesses—including many com-
panies engaged in secondary
industry—are reaching such a
size that the problems of
efficient co-ordination and
communication alone call for
the adoption of new and
streamlined methods of
managerial control.
To some extent the qualities
required for top management
may be said to be innate, but
he thinks there is an increasing
opportunity for the level of
managerial efficiency to be
improved by a study of the
management functions as such.
It does appear that the
familiar catch-cry of increased
productivity, merely meaning
that everyone, but especially
the work-force proper, should
work harder, is an outworn
shibboleth.
The successful harnessing of
capital tools and scientific
invention and its application,
in Dr. Bell’s opinion, presents
a challenge to management
rather than to labor.
Strong Selective Support
QTILL in vigorously selective
mood, Australian investors
paid higher prices again for
several shares last week, B.H.P.
being outstanding, but Henry
Jones and Burns Philp still
getting strong support. Most
consistent backing is for top
industrials with a known
potential; but there has been
a lot of nibbling at lesser-
known identities in an industry
which is acknowledged to be
very busy hence, in the
chemicals section, some spec-
tacular rises in Reichhold and
Timbrol. There is still specula-
tion about the outcome of
negotiations for a takeover in
connection with the latter.
Imports and Credit
Tli ELAXATION of import-
conti ol to the extent of
admitting an extra £75 million
of overseas goods a year
became operative from April
1 ; and importers operating in
B-category goods can now
revert to the interchangeable-
licence system.
The increase in B-category
goods amounts to 66.6 p.c., and
will account for about £2O
million of the £75 million.
It is possible that the over-
all increase of £75 million
will go a fair way to satisfying
demand in some importing
businesses, though anomalies
always exist in any arbitrary
controls ; and with no relaxa-
tion of credit policy in sight
the squeeze on the demand for
imports within Australia is
likely to continue.
If the relaxation in import-
controls has been wisely
apportioned, and if the credit-
squeeze within Australia con-
tinues at its present pressure,
the two combined will exert a
fairly strong anti-inflationary
force.
It remains to be seen how
industry within Australia
stands up to this anti-inflation-
ary force, especially in view of
State Labor Governments’
tendency to try to defeat any
economic policy that the
Federal Government may
implement. Rising costs within
Australia would make indus-
trial life difficult during a
period of freer imports and
light credit. But it can’t be
overlooked that it is no part
of import-restriction policy to
protect local industries from
overseas competition. That is
a job for the Tariff Board.
Steel and B.H.P.
'T'HE sound economic posi-
tion of the Australian steel
industry, as outlined by C.
York Syme at the annual meet-
ing of Australian Iron and
Steel, inspired a strong upward
movement in B.H.P. shares;
and that follows the very firm
market indeed that existed
while the rights to the recent
new issue were offering.
Those who took up the rights
at 21s. should be quite happy
to see the fully-paids quoted at
48s. 6d., as was the case last
week. But they seem high
enough for the present.
Mr. Syme said at the A.I.
and S. meeting that Australian
steel was being exported in
return for prices 50 p.c. to 75
p.c. higher than the Aus-
tralian price. Though present
quantities may not continue to
be available for export because
(Continued on next page)


Investors'
Opportunity
M & ST. Credit*
(NEWCASTLE) LIMITED
CLOSING SHORTLY
FIXED LOANS
Mm
me.
mm
ssmm
• Iff*
0
Mr
SHORT CALL LOANS:
Up to £5OO On Call-
£soo-£l,OOO
21 days tall
J 3 /Z%p.a.
(In excess by arrangement)
Interest paid tree ot exchange quarterly
Conversion of Short Call loans
If desired, after 6 months without call, the sum
loaned may be converted for a further 6 months ’
fixed, making 12 months in all at 9 per cent.~p.a.
Priority is given to depositors over shareholders.
Offices for Enquiries:-
NEWCASTLE:
SYDNEY:
or
BANKERS:
AUDITORS:
SOLICITORS:
H. & S. Credits (Newcastle) Ltd..
Civic Square. 84202.
R. M. Griffiths (Broker for the purpose at the
loan),
Cl- Incorporated Finance & Investment Pty. Ltd.,
468 Hunter Street, Newcastle 83075.
H. & S. Credits Pty. Ltd..
163 Clarence Street
BXII7O. 8X1603.
Roy F. Turner, K. H. Wilson & Co. (Solicitors).
350 George Street.
8L2766. 8L.3292
A. R. Shaw (Solicitor),
99 Pitt Street
81.3081
The Commercial Bank of Australia Ltd.,
Civic Branch, Newcastle.
Gibson & Davies, 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Roy F. Turner, K. H. Wilson & Co.,
350 George Street, Sydney
Inquiries: BXII7O , 8X1603
of the running-down of local
stocks in the hands of second-
ary industry, it is pleasing to
note that Australian production
of steel has recently been at the
rate of 2,800,000 ingot-tons a
year, which is up more than
40 p.c. on the average steel-
making rate for 1953. Capacity
is being expanded still further.
Australian prices for plates,
structural steel and merchant
bar are still 23 p.c. to 49 p.c.
lower than the duty-free landed
cost of U.K. steel in Australia.
B.H.P. has a huge expansion
programme ahead of it, and
much of its profit over the next
few years will be ploughed-
back into the business. This, of
course, applies also to Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel, the chief
subsidiary.
At 48s. 6d., the £1 shares of
B.H.P. yield only 4.1 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis.
Malcolm Moore Industries
RESULTS by Malcolm
Moore Industries, Ltd.,
which used to be one of the
most profitable of Melbourne
industrial-equipment engineers,
continue to disappoint. Expan-
sion in the capital account has
not been followed by a corres-
ponding rise in profits; the
reverse has in fact been the
case.
The board, in announcing
poorer results for the half-year
to Dec. 31, also announced the
withholding of any interim
dividend. Reduced profits are
attributed to continued
unsatisfactory results from the
road - machinery subsidiary.
All other subsidiaries operated
at a profit.
In previous years the
organisation did especially Well
out of overhead conveyors
supplied to mines, wharves,
gasworks, etc., and travelling
cranes.
Timor Oil-seeps
[By L. Owen]
pOLLOWINQ the publica-
tion of “Oil-seeps and -
Pav-sands” (B. 27/3/'57) I
have received several inquiries
asking if the references were to
the petroleum manifestations of
Portuguese Timor.
When writing the article on
oil-seeps, however, I had
chiefly in mind the Caribbean
region of Central and South
America, in which there are
prolific surface-shows of oil
and gas. I can speak with some
authority as to that part of the
world, since I spent there over
10 years in the field exploring
for petroleum and exploiting
discovered oilfields.
Although I have long been
interested in Portuguese Timor,
where the existence of surface-
oil has been known for some
centuries, I have never visited
the island, my nearest approach
being Papua—and I am unable,
therefore, to describe the area
at first-hand. There exists,
however, a fairly extensive
literature dealing with its oil
prospects,-and I have been able
to supplement the printed
information.
The first authoritative state-
ment of which I have know-
ledge with reference to the
Timor seeps was made by Dr.
G. Seelhorst in 1891. He
observed oil oozing from the
ground in the Mola Mutika
river-bed at Pualaka at an
estimated rate of 15 gallons a
day. About 2000yds. away,
in the jungle up a slope of
one-in-six, he found a flare of
natural gas. The flame was
regarded by the natives as
sacred and was said to burn
more brightly after rain ; the
oil from the river-bed was
collected and burned in lamps.
Following Dr. Seelhorst’s
visit, a hole was sunk by hand-
auger to about 30ft. below the
bottom of a pit, sft. deep,
which had been dug at the
main seepage —presumably by
the natives for the purpose of
collecting oil. This first bore
produced over 2000 gallons in
all, of a markedly-fluorescent,
dark-brown crude without
objectionable smell and rich in
paraffin wax. As might be
expected, the oil recovered
from the bore (not having been
subjected to inspissation) was
less viscous and lighter in
gravity than that from the seep,
which itself was exceptionally
fluid. In fact, it possessed, very
definitely, the characteristics of
a mixed-base petroleum which
had been subjected to long
migration through very “tight”
strata.
The early observers contented
themselves with collecting
empirical data and samples of
minerals and oil, but geological
reconnaissances, between 1903
and 1914, made on behalf of
several oil companies, indicated
that the strata outcropping
were not in their normal
sequence. It was not until
after World War I, however,
that the existence of thrust-
faulting was propounded.
Most of the companies
operating in Portuguese Timor
contented themselves. with
shallow drilling near the seeps,
and the depth of 1000 ft. does
not appear to have been
exceeded. As might have been
anticipated, measurable but
not commercial production was
obtained. By 1920 several
wells had been drilled, with
varying results, in the Laclubar
region, particularly near the
Pualaka oil-seep, but there was
still doubt in some quarters as
to whether the mud-cones
(built by ejections of natural
gas) were of volcanic origin
or not —in fact, the disproval
of their igneous nature was the
subject of an investigation in
that year by a geologist from a
Chinese university.
From the work done to date,
the most probable explanation
of the structural complexity of
Portuguese Timor is that it has
been subjected to a type of
thrusting similar to that so
intensely studied in North-west
Scotland. In itself, that fact
breeds caution, and the
problem of oil-finding requires
a chemical as well as a geo-
logical approach for its solu-
tion. Fortunately, analyses of
oil from the seeps and wells
indicate that this approach
would be a fruitful one. Un-
fortunately, the sampling was
not done with this purpose in
view, and none of the diverse
manners in which the data have
been presented is suited to
this end.


" But how do I know you re a bona fide fireman?"


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO CECIL ROBERT SHEFFIELD late
of 192 Hudson Road Spotswood, Vic-
toria.—TAKE NOTICE that BONNIE
NOELEAN SHEFFIELD has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 411 ot 1956
on the ground of desertion without iust
cause or excuse foT three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney' by the 21st day of June 1957
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. W. A. PECK
& DRAPER, Solicitors, of 14 Spring
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGH AN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. —In Divorce.
TO ANITA ELVERIA DIDDAMS late of
Mixpah, Kenwyn Road, Ashgrove, Bris-
bane, Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE that
RICHARD HUMPHRIE DIDDAMS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No.-4214
of 1956 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 17 th day of
June 1957 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from HAN-
COCK, ALLDIS & CO., Solicitors, of
225 Forest Road, Hurstville, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW*
SOUTH WALES. — In Divorce.
TO LUCY ATKINSON (formerly LUCY
JAMES) late of Kurrajong in the State
of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that KEITH NORMAN ATKINSON has
filed Petition for Divorce No. 3289 of
1955 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 14th June 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from NICHOLL & HICKS, Soli*
citors, 9 Bligh Street, Sydney.— J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Franquin
One question had long
plagued this commentator
about hypnotism as entertain-
ment: Might not a subject,
while under the “influence,”
indulge in uninhibited
language? The problem was
resolved when Franquin, the
bearded disciple of Dr.
Mesmer, dropped anchor at
Sydney Empire to begin his
fifth season there and so
establish a theatrical record.
The weeding-out process
having been completed and
those not amenable to the
hypnotic touch sent back to
their seats, one of the first
subjects to receive the master’s
attention was a gent, who
readily yielded •to the sugges-
tion that his spectacles had
been broken. He immediately
began stumbling and groping
around until he took a nose :
dive, beautifully-timed, over
one of the semi-circle of chairs
and, on getting up, said
aggrievedly, “Who left that
bloody thing there?” That a
similar subject tripped over a
similar chair a few nights later
and said the same words is
proof of the grip which the
entertainer-hypnotist has over
the minds and speech of his
subjects.
Then there were the other
two subjects, colorfully clad
in the garb favored by patrons
of the Surryville Dance Hall,
who were told they were mem-
bers of a ballet company and
immediately threw themselves
about in a manner which would
have delighted the eye of M.
Borovansky himself. But
possibly the best example of the
hypnotist’s control over his
subjects’ thinking was his effort
in persuading four girls picked
at random that they could all
sing, word-perfect, a song he
nominated —which they did, as
to the manner born.
Bulletin cartoonist Lusby,
who went around to Franquin’s
dressing-room at lemons to get
a few pencil-shots, attempted
to satisfy his craving for
scientific exactitude by asking
a few questions. Franquin
answered them at curtain-rise
by bouncing on stage, suspend-
ing someone between two
chairs in poker-rigidity, then
standing on the body. It dis-
pelled all doubts. Then Mr.
Franquin shouted to the
applauding but mystified audi-
ence : “ That was for the benefit
of Mr. Lusby of The
Bulletin.” What could any
At the Franquin show, at Sydney Empire, artist Lusby was
not sure whether he stood on his head, or whether he hung from
the ceiling by the palms of his hands while everyone else was
bottoms-up.
scientifically minded cartoonist
do but rise and shout back
magnanimously, “Thanquin
you, Franquin”?
But the whole show is all
good fun. Franquin’s job,
after all, is to entertain, and he
does it magnificently— to keep
nearly 2000 people bubbling
with laughter for almost three
hours night after night in
single-handed effort is really an
accomplishment.
*:♦ *t*
“Janus”
Carolyn Wells’s “Janus” has
turned up at Melbourne
Comedy, and Miss Jessie
Matthews is using her wide
smile, her big eyes and her
inveterate gaiety to elucidate
the improbable but not im-
possible situation.
As the wife of a Seattle
shipping-tycoon, she takes two
months off a year from being
a married woman to go to New
York to study adult-education.
She gangs-up with a school-
teacher who is secretly engaged
in writing dreadful historical
novels which inevitably become
bestsellers and bring in royal-
ties that would make the mouth
of an Australian author water.
She becomes his collaborator
and he her lover, and everything
goes better than a marriage-
bell for seven years until the
shipping tycoon turns up and
finds something amiss when
the schoolteacher enters her
flat per medium of the dumb-
waiter.
At this point Miss Matthews
threatens to become serious.
She likes both men, and she
endeavors to show them that
neither need necessarily exclude
the other and that the notion of
exclusiveness in sexual rela-
tions is the real bugbear.
Unfortunately the play-
wright’s inventiveness can’t do
the distance. She introduces a
taxation-officer, and the rest of
the evening is concerned with
the purely legal question as to
whether the husband should
have included his wife’s illicit
earnings in his income-tax
return and was he knowledge-
able or unknowledgeable when
he didn’t, whether the wife’s
maintenance was an allowable
deduction for the lover and
whether all three of them
haven’t earned themselves two
years in Sing Sing for income-
tax evasions.
It was, perhaps, just as well.
It is doubtful if Miss
Matthews’s vivacity would
have carried her into deeper
waters.
»+♦ +♦+ ++♦
“The Father”
Jo Gibson’s production of
Strindberg’s “The Father” for
Canberra Rep. did not quite
match-up to some of her previ-
oils work, but that was possibly
the fault of a play which tries
to create a tragedy out of a
theme—the enslavement of
man by woman —more suited
to satire or comedy, or even
farce.
True, Strindberg twists it a
little, with the man a believer
in science and progress and a
freethinker, and the woman a
supportex of religion and tradi-
tional values, but no one after
seeing the play can seriously
accept the warning about
women. Compared with
Tolstoy’s The Kreutzer Sonata,
which develops the same theme,
“The Father” falls flat.
One of the troubles is that it
is impossible to feel any
sympathy for the man, this
victim of modern, possessive,
domineering women. Ken
Rogers, who played the hus-
band just as Strindberg con-
ceived him —as a tragic hero
brought down by the wife —
just did not rouse the audience.
This was not because he lacked
acting power —he displayed
that in abundance —but because
any actor taking Strindberg
seriously on this theme can
evoke no pity or horror, but
only embarrassment.
Eve Hardwicke looked the
woman as Strindberg conceived
her —capable of eating men,
soul, body, skin, hair and all.


THt AU BRITISH
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
VA
m
a
r Prices from
29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
e o « » » » iimn o bo. i to. imoi
Missing Friend
WOULD anv relative or friend knowing
JAMES THOMAS DOYLE while he was
serving with the Queensland Police
Force prior to World War II kindly
supply details to No. 104 Bulletin
Newspapers,- 252 George Street, Sydney.
Reward offered.
It was another admirable piece
of acting, in which she created
a person where Strindberg had
sketched a type. Daphne
Curtis, too, created a whole
person on the stage as did
Christopher Power, as the
frowning, puzzled Pastor. And
Beatrice Jay got across the
strain and bewilderment of a
child caught up in adult dark-
ness, madness and despair.
In fact all of them, expertly
drilled and directed as they had
been by Jo Gibson, effectively
dressed by Jackie Ryan, and
moving against the interesting
sets of Nancy Parker —all of
them had something to offer, as
indeed did Strindberg ; except
that fatal, mad conviction that
the human tragedy in that year
of grace 1887 was what
women, or at any rate some
women, did to men in
marriage.
M. C.
❖ *> ♦>
“Rain”
In the Cotton - Randolph
adaptation and the Melbourne
Repertory presentation at the
Arrow Theatre, “Rain”
remains as fresh as when it first
fell from Somerset Maugham’s
pen, which is a long time ago.
The tragedy of the play lies
at the door of the Rev. David-
son. A man who has denied the
flesh and lived entirely for the
cause, he hides his queer
concept of right and wrong
behind a mask of righteous
babble, and his passionate
beliefs produce more suffering
than salvation to the sinners
around him.
Like most of Maugham’s
plots, the surface story is
simple. A ship, carrying Sadie
Thompson, Dr. MacPhail, a
wise and worldly man of peace,
Mrs. MacPhail, equally wise
but not prepared to do much
about it, quartermaster Bates,
a rough, amorous old seadog,
and a few others not worth
mentioning, is forced to spend
some time at Pago Pago
refitting. The MacPhails and
Sadie are required to stay under
the same leaking roof in Joe
Horn’s hotel-store. Here also
board the indomitable Rev.
Davidson and his wife.
Miss Thompson irritates
Davidson, who suspects she is
a notorious red-light girl. After
some terrible rows Davidson
convinces Sadie of the need to
repent and be punished, and
the gullible Sadie accepts the
verdict of the unofficial court
and prepares to depart for the
penal institute in America
where she is to serve a three-
year sentence.
Very pretty; but before she
can start her penance the
reverend gentleman becomes
obsessed with Miss Thompson,
who has her new-found beliefs
suddenly shattered by David-
son’s amorous advances.
Davidson commits suicide and
once again Sadie is alone with-
out her belief.
Geoffrey Page and June
Shimmin were sincere and con-
vincing in the main roles, and
the rest of the cast did a
workmanlike job, particularly
Charles O’Neil, as Joe Horn,
and Douglas Thompson, as the
doctor.
❖ ❖ ❖
Thomas L. Thomas
Thomas L. Thomas —who is
neither a straight-out lieder-
singer nor a simple singer of
folk-songs and dittigs, but a
sophisticated combination of
both—began his first Brisbane
concert with a group of early
Italian songs stylishly sung and
followed With songs like “An
Eriskay Love Lilt.” The early
songs were good, but it is in
ranging the British Isles and the
U.S.A. that Thomas excels. It
is a pity that he has to sing in
vast spaces like the Brisbane
City Hall when his art properly
belongs to smaller and more
intimate places.
His advertised popularity on
TV in America is easy to
believe when one gets close
enough to see the changes of
facial expression that mirror
the moods of little character-
songs, spirituals and Victorian
ballads.
Thomas uses none of the
touches of sentimentality that
sometimes adorn, sometimes
spoil folk-singers. Yet the
audiences who hear him will
be those who once flocked to
hear Sydney Mac Ewan, and
they will find the same songs
done with a different kind of
charm, but nonetheless potent
for that.
D. J. M.
Artbursts
Big Small Pictures
If the N. S. Wales Royal
Art Society is going to continue
with its autumn exhibition of
“small” pictures perhaps it
would be a good idea for the
committee to explain to its
exhibitors that “small” means
small, not large.
The pictures in the present
exhib i t i o n at Anthony
Hordern's, Sydney, if none of
them is half-an-acre in extent,
are nearly all a middling size ;
and of a very middling quality.
There is one painting by
James R. Jackson, “Sand Pits,
Botany” which is genuinely,
mathematically small and
which has the special virtues
characteristic of the best small
paintings, whether Hilder’s or
Constable’s: the freshness of
a quick impression, the con-
centration upon a single effect,
the extra force of compression.
Very likely a rehearsal for a
larger picture James Jackson
has made of the same subject,
it is exceptionally attractive in
its weight of paint, its rich and
sombre colors, its play of
light on the sandhill ; an
admirable little paintng by
any standard and in any com-
pany.
But James Jackson’s second
picture, “Low Tide, Clontarf,”
a facile bit of Harbor blue,
typical of a thousand such
exercises he has turned out over
the years, illustrates in its larger
size and comparative weakness
the general slackness of the
exhibition. It is not a show of
“gems” but simply of indif-
ferent paintings going fairly—
but not very—cheaply.
G. K. Townshend’s “A South
Easter,” though repetitive, is
of his usual high standard;
and amongst minor works of
some charm there are Rhys
Wi 11 ia m s’s “Prelude to
Autumn,” Betty Rowe’s
“Flowerpiece,” Graeme Inson’s
Meldrumite “Grey Day,” H.
A, Hanke’s “Entrance to the
Farm,” W. H. Hib b 1 e’s
“Coastal, Warringah” and
Garret Kingsley’s “The Mirror”
a nude in which, by
adopting a more realistic
approach, the painter has got
some bones into the body and
avoided overdecoration.
❖ ❖ ❖
Melbourne Art
The latest lurk among Mel-
bourne modernists consists of
externalising on canvas the
images suggested in the
painter’s mind by reading a
poem. In the show of “Poems
into Paintings,” at the Con-
temporaries’ Gallery, the poems
range from John Shaw Neilson,
Judith Wright and Banjo
Paterson to Homer and T. S.
Eliot, but they seem to have
inspired most of the artists to
produce all the familiar
abstractions, distortions,
geometrical patterns, dead-pan
faces and anatomical
monstrosities of the modern,
genus.
Two exceptions are “The
Boy under the Long Stair,” by
Barrie Reid, which Laurence
Hope sees as a boy gazing
wistfully at an Asiatic river,
and Banjo Paterson’s “So it’s
shift, boys, shift....” which
appears as a badly painted
group of stockmen on badly
painted horses.
Three of the current art
shows in Melbourne have come
across Bass- Strait. Kevin
Bartlett is at Prince’s and
James Wigley and David Arm-
field are at the Tasmanian
Tourist Bureau galleries
opposite The Bulletin office in
Collins-street. James Wigley is
by far the best of the trio. He
has sufficient control of tone
and color to make his strongly
drawn figures stand out in a
landscape but he fails to give


Jmfau’d
The connoisseur's word
for smooth, mellow
perfection
///,«//'/
W
I?
fw
=
£iPSA=yr4ii
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
msm
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
FAMOUS FOR 90 YEARS
TST 4 7 ia
much luminosity to his
shadows.
The Warrandyte Art Associa-
tion makes a welcome appear-
ance in Matthew Lang’s cellars
in the vaulted basement of the
Eastern Market. Here amongst
the bluestone arches and the
barrels are displayed jewellery,
sculpture, pottery and pictures
by such well-known practi-
tioners as Vassilieff,, Howard
Matthews, Len Annois, Henry
Hudson and Peter Bennett as
well as younger aspirants for
artistic honors. If some of the
products of the brushmen
aren’t up to the standards of
the grapemen they may mature
in time.
Films
‘‘Battle of the River Plate”
There is plenty of action and
plenty of tension in this Powell-
and-Pressburger version of how
Achilles, Exeter and Ajax hung
on like terriers to the pocket-
battleship Admiral Graf Spee
and ran her into Montevideo,
where her captain scuttled her
and then committed suicide—
although that final chapter is
omitted from the film.
The actual engagements, and
particularly the hammering
Exeter took from the German,
are exceptionally vivid, if
inevitably a little incoherent
to the landlubber; and even
a desert-bound Bedouin should
stiffen to the electric atmo-
sphere as the ships, with silent,
eager guns', race to withir
range of each other.
In the acting, Peter Finch’s
Captain Langsdorff is the most
human figure ; the British
captains, headed by Anthony
Quayle as Commodore
Harwood, seem a little studio-
bound—it is hard to believe
that even the naval aristocracy
could be quite so 8.8. C.
The part of the Graf Spse is
taken by the U.S.S. Salem,
which commits the only tech-
nical slip noticed by this
commentator when it shows a
radar aerial turning on the
mast-top—if the Graf Spee had
been equipped with radar the
Peter Finch and Anthony Quayle in “The Battle of the River
Plate,” at Sydney State.
story of the engagement might
have been vastly different.
❖ *X* *l*
“Woman of the River”
Like “Bitter Rice,” this
Italian film sets a melodrama
in a more-or-less insulated
community, in this case a
village at the mouth of the
Po River where the inhabitants
wrest a poor living by cutting
the feathery tops of the cane
which grows in the. shallows.
It’s the old story of the
betrayed girl—actually, she
seeks the situation—the shift-
less lover and the illegitimate
child. The child’s death by
drowning, the harrowing search
for the body and the pre-
funeral rites are drawn-out to
comorise too much of the film.
Sophia Loren, voluptuous
enough in the early sequences,
is less assured in later
eoisodes ; Rik Battaglia is
adequate as the lover who
makes amends for his earlier
abandonment of her.
The film’s best quality is the
realism with which the life
and work of the village is
limned. Its major weakness is
unsuccessful dubbing-in of
English voices to correspond
with the lip-movements of the
Italian actors.
+£«■
“Teahouse of the August
Moon”
John Patrick’s witty play
about an American captain
assigned to grafting U.S.
demahcracy on to a small t and
primitive Okinawan village
comes up equally well in the
screen - adaptation, currently
showing at Sydney St. James.
The Cinema Scope settings,
and particularly the scenes of
the teahouse and its miniature
lakes, are first-rate, and the
comedy itself simmers gently
for most of its length with
occasional uproarious boil-
overs.
The film has the advantage
of some Japanese players and
extras, with the charming
Matchiko Kyo in the role of
the fluttering geisha-girl—her
traditional Okinawan dance,
with the dexterous use of two
small fans, is exquisite.
Marlon Brando, who showed
a flair for comedy in “Guys
and Dolls,” gives a cleverly
judged performance as the
interpreter-factotum who has
all the doings of the village at
his fingertips. The role is
essentially one of restrained
comedy and subtle touches.
Brando never seems to walk
in anywhere ; he simply
appears, mixing shrewdly an
air of apology with a quiet
insistence until he gets what
he wants.
Another major contribution
is Paul Ford’s Colonel Purdy
111. By turns choleric, exp’o-
sive, despairing and elated, he
provides the boilover episodes.
Glenn Ford’s dithering can-
tain, who learns to live with
his own failures, his
likeable personality to good
effect.
♦♦♦ ♦** ♦s.
Other Sydney Releases:
“Sailor Beware” (Sydney
Embassy): Screen-version of
the play about the English tar
who acquires a battle-axe of
a jpa-in-law. Peggy Mount
rants, storms and batters her
way through the role with
enormous zest and chest . . .
“Port Afrique” (Sydney
Lyceum): Torrid beller-
drammer of love and murder
in Morocco, with Phil Carey
and Pier Angeli.


Perplexing Problem!
/
COMPANY LTD
facorporoied in Victoria in 1878
TR38A.35
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
— how. will my Estate be administered?
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. Executor of
your Will, you obtain the benefit of an impartial Executor with over
three-quarters of a century’s specialised experience in the Administration
of. Estates, and the assurance that the interests of your legatees will be
safeguarded until the Trusts are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such permanence, security or experience.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
A Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £972,457.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming
Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; W. E. M. Campbell,
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8..
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. He far; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter. ’
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
AN Australian accident, fire and marine
office underwriting risks in many
parts of the world, the Queensland has
given its shareholders little cause for
complaint, and late last term lived-up
to its reputation as a sound investment
with a one 7 for-three gift-issue. Bonus-
issues, although less frequent now than
in earlier years, have provided £1,175,000
of the Queensland’s £2,500,000 issued
capital, and the scrip commands a sub-
stantial premium in a sharemarket
mindful of the co.’s financial strength,
the possibility of further capital-gains
and the pleasing p.c. div. rate. The
f.-p. £1 ords. at 60s. return a modest
4.2 p.c., the contribs. paid to 10s. bring-
ing around 475. At September 30 last
there was a net tangible backing of
61s. 4d., including reserve for unexpired
risks and uncalled capital.
Sponsored by Burns Philp (still a
major shareholder), the Queensland was
formed in 1886, adopting its present name
some 20 years later following the absorp-
tion of a subsidiary accident-co. By
1934 bonus-issues had pushed paid-capital
from £75,000 to £750,000, the first call
for cash in over 40 years coming in 1951,
when, to assist overseas expansion,
750,000 £1 ords. were offered (one-for-
one) to shareholders at par. Last term’s
£500,000 gift was made concurrently
with a £500,000 (one-for-three) par
issue, which, when fully-paid in June,
’57, will give the co. a paid capital of
£2,500,000 in £1 ords.
Keen competition has been experienced
in the last few years, but net premium-
income has increased by 57.8 p.c. since
1951. and in the latest accounts (to
September 30 last) amounted to
£3,898,890 (up £327,935):
Net Loss Expense
Sept., Premiums. Claims. Expenses.* Rate. Rate.
£ £ £ p.c. p.c.
1951.. 2.469.470.1,124,171 993,429 45.5 40.2
1952. .3,029,330 1,455,242 1,123,942 48.0 37.1
1953. .3,040,480 1,495,828 1,184,899 49.2 39.0
1954. .3,119,449 1,651,667 1,197,171 52.9 38.3
1955 . .3,570,955 1,913,830 1,328,439 53.6 37.2
1956. .3,598,890 2,290,246 1,338,472 58.7 34.3
* Includes contributions to staff fund, but excludes
taxes, etc., on returns from investments.
Despite the higher premium income and
a smaller (down £50,000) addition to
the reserve for unexpired risks, the
underwriting surplus was down by £8514
at £95,172. Heavier claims lifted the
loss-rate by 102 s. p.c., and, once again,
earnings from workers’-compensation and
motor-vehicle business were slight, but
fire and marine sections produced
“reasonable profits.’" The expense-rate,
aided by a lower charge for taxation,
continued to fall, the improvement
amounting to 58s. per cent, over the
term. The reserve for unexpired risks at
£2,450,000 (up £175,000) represented
62.8 p.c. of net premiums, well above the
recognised 40 p.c. ratio.
The lower underwriting surplus was
more than offset by the improvement in
investment income (normally the chief
source of divs.), and net earnings rose
by £25,791 to £426,636:
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £■£,£<
1952.. 285,215 12$ p.e. =140,625 144,590 3,474,329
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. 3,459,329
To reserve unexpired risks, £225,000. . 3,684,329
1953.. 323,664 12$ p.c. =152,344 171,320 3,855,649
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. 3.840,649
To reserve unexpired risks, £150,000 3,990,649
1954. . 370,932 12$ p.c. =187,500 183,432 4,174,081
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. .. 4,159,081
From inner reserves, £200,000 .. 4,359,081
To reserve unexpired risks, £225,000.. 4,584,081
1955.. 400,845 124 p.c. =187,500 213,345 4,797,426
To staff fund, £20,000 .. .. 4,777,426
Revaluation freeholds, £500,000 ..5,277,426
Reserves capitalised, £500,000 .. 4,777,420
To reserve unexpired risks, £175,000 4,952,426
To staff fund, £20,000 .. .. 4,932,426
1956.. 426,636 12$ p.c. =187,500 239,136 5,171,562
The profit equalled a return of 28.4 p.c.
on the £1,500,000 share-capital employed
for most of the term, as against 26.7,
24.7, 21.5 and 25.3 p.c. in the four
preceding years. Investment income (up
£34,305 to £331,464) represented a 22 p.c.
return, and the underwriting surplus 6.4
p.c. On capital as it will stand at June
30, ’57 (when the current issue is fully-
paid), the return was 17 p.c., income from
investments covering a p.c. div. on
the larger figure with £18,964 to spare.
Revaluation of premises prior to the
bonus-issue provided £500,000 of the
£1,225,596 increase in the book-value of
assets:
f 1955 • —.y 1956
p.c. p.c.
Govt, securities. £3,662,159 37.6 £3,796,238 34.6
Cash, etc. .. 636,708 6.5 557,087 5.1
Shares, etc. . . 2,183,023 22.4 2,420,720 22.1
Mortgages .. 936,488 9.6 1,055,541 9.6
Book debts .. 1,121,887 11.6. 1,370,934 12.5
Freeholds .. 1,196,995 12.3 1,762,336 16.1
Total assets .. £9,737,260 100.0 £10,962,856 100.0
Liabilities* .. 3,346,083 3,552,543
Net assets ..£6,391,177 £7,410,313
* Includes unstated provision for contingencies, but
excludes final div.
It is hoped that invested funds will
reach £10,000,000 during the current
year, although last term’s £237,697
addition to shares, etc., and an extra
£119,053 in mortgages and £134,079 in
Government securities should keep invest-
ment income well in front of immediate
dividend requirements. Both policy-
holders and shareholders are well-
protected by reserves, which, including
the £2,450,000 provision for unexpired
risks, total £5,171,562.
National Radiators, Ltd.
AS an appropriate finale to a highly
successful year, National Radiators,
Ltd., distributed bonus-scrip (one-for-
four) among ord.-shareholders on the
register at June 30 last. The gift was
doubly appreciated, for it carried with
it an 8.3 p.c. div., which made the 13.3
p.c. distribution for the year worth 21.6
p.c. on pre-bonus holdings.
Tax-free reserves (£40,000 of share-
premiums and £16,066 from revaluation
reserve) were capitalised for the bonus-
issue, which took the co.’s paid capital to
£330,229, of which £50,000 is in 5 p.c.
prefs. The scrip, listed on Melbourne,
Sydney and Adelaide ’Changes, was first
offered to the public in 1948.
The parent and its wholly-owned sub-
sidiary claim to be the largest manufac-
turers of automotive radiators in the


Southern Hemisphere and carry on a
business originally established in 1922.
Its products are used as initial equipment
on many well-known makes of motor-
vehicle (including Holden, Dodge, Hill-
man, Vauxhall and International) as well
as for replacement purposes. Factories
are situated in Melbourne and Sydney.
Outside the radiator field, National Radi-
ators manufactures aerosol valves, used
for pressure-packaging insecticides,
shaving-cream, perfume, etc., and, through.
Australian Inhibitor Paper, Pty. (jointly
owned with Cromwell Paper Co., of
U.S.A.), produces a packing-paper which
inhibits corrosion in ferrous metals.
In common with most units of the
Australian automotive industry, the co.
has expanded swiftly since the 1939-45
war, and turnover, £345,000 in 1949, had
reached £971,831 by 1952, last term’s
£1,364,273 of sales representing an in-
crease of 15 p.c. on the preceding term’s
figure. The higher sales have enabled
the co. to absorb increased costs, and
although the ratio of profit to sales
dropped again last term, this time from
5.6 p.c. to 5.1 p.c., net earnings for the
year to June 30 improved by £2234 to a
record £68,365 after providing an extra
£6639 for depreciation (£28,018) and
£43,000 (down £2740) for taxation: 1 —
Parent and Subsidiary.
f Dividends To Re- Re-
Jne. Profit. Pref. , Ord. N serves, serves.
80, £ £ £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £4BB .. .. 18,463
Written-off intangibles, £1766 .. 16,697
Asset-revaluation reserve, £27,469 .. 45,932
*61..41,904 2500 13.33 p.c. = 18,783 20,621 66,553
Profit sale assets, £342 .. .. 66,895
Share-premiums, ,£40,000 .. .. 106,895
•62..53,520 2500 13.33 p.c. = 27,901 23,119 130.014
Profit sale assets, £l9 .. .. 130,033
*63..52,778 2500 1.3.33 p.c. = 29,902 20,376 150,409
Profit sale assets, £356 .. .. 150,765
'54..60,997 2500 18.33 p.c. = 41,115 17,382 168,147
Tax overprovided, £1652 .. .. 169,799
Profit sale assets, £213 .. .. 170,012
♦65..66,131 2500 13.33 p.c. = 29,902 33,729 203,741
Revaluation freeholds, £23,197 .. 226,938
Reserves capitalised, £56,066 .. 170,872
Profit sale fixed-assets, etc., £lOl4. . 171,886
’56.-68,365 2500 13.33p.c. = 34,574 31,291 203.177
Earnings covered the pref. div. and 23.4
p.c. on the larger ord. capital compared
with 28.4 p.c. and 26.8 p.c. in the two
preceding years. For a complete term,
unaltered pref. and ord. divs. would call
for £39,878 or £28,487 less than last
term’s net profit..
New plant, extensions to the Sydney
factory (where a new press-shop is now
in operation) and the erection of premises
at Townsville (Q.) involved a capital-
expenditure of £63,207 last term. Revalu-
ation added another £23,197 to the book-
value of fixed-assets, but depreciation,
etc., reduced the gain for the term to
£55,494:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref. .. .. .. £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
Ord 224,263 224,263 280,329
Reserves 168,147 203,741 203,177
Overdraft .. .. 84,706 98,256 110,429
Creditors .. .. 60,776 119,266 59,143
Staff fund .. .. - 7,114
Tax provision .. .. 47,384 45,740 43,000
Final div. .. .. 31,152 19,939 24,611
£666,428 £761,205 £777,803
Freeholds, leaseholds and
plant 221,534 217,772 273,266
Stocks 290,051 368,082 411,538
Debtors 154,476 170,909 88,487
Shares .. .. .. 3 4,000 4,000
Cash, etc 364 442 512
£666,428 £761,205 £777,803
Tighter financial conditions led to an
alteration in the terms of trade between
the co. and its suppliers and major custo-
mers, which explains the otherwise start-
ling drop in debtors (down £82,422) and
creditors (down £60,123). At £170,909
debtors equalled 12.5 p.c. of turnover.
Shown at the lower of cost or market-
value, stock (up £43,456) increased at a
slower rate than turnover, the prices of
copper and brass (major items of stock)
dropping over the year. Working-capital
was practically unchanged at £256,240.
Credit-restrictions and higher rates of.
sales-tax have affected earnings from
the motor-vehicle industry (with some
notable exceptions) over the past twelve
months but, on the whole, manufacturers
of components and spare-parts have fared
better than new-car-distributors and
-producers. The co.’s profit-margins have
grown thinner in the last few years, and
improved earnings' have been mainly due
to an increasing turnover. The board
describes turnover for the first half of
the current term as “satisfactory” and
suggests that trading results will be “com-
parable” with those of last term.
At June 30 there was a net tan-
gible backing of £lO 13s. 4d. for each
£1 pref. and Bs. Bd. for the f.-p. ss. ords.,
which at 13s. return 5.1 p.c. from a 13.3
p.c. div.
Clifford Love and Co., Ltd.
TNCLUDING for the first time the
earnings of the wholly owned sub-
sidiary Stratton and Sons Pty., accounts
to September 30 last from Clifford Love
and Co., Ltd., reveal a big jump in the
co.’s net profit.
The paid capital of Stratton and Sons,
flourmillers, etc., of Cootamundra,
N.S.W., was bought shortly before the
commencement of the term and cost the
co. 116,500 f.-p. £1 ords. issued at a
premium of 345. 6d. This recently
acquired subsidiary promises to be a
profitable investment. Dividends from
pre-acquisition profits in the 1955 term
amounted to £30,000, while consolidated
net earnings last term were 79.7 p.c.
greater than those claimed by the parent
in the preceding year, largely as a result
of the subsidiary’s operations.
Clifford Love and Co.’s main interests
are in the drygoods field, where the co.
is active as manufacturer, merchant and
importer. The co.’s products, a number
of them well-known proprietary lines,
include oatmeal, cornflour, rice, starch,
essences, etc. Manufacturing is carried
on at Sydney, where a second mill is now
nearing completion.
Public interest in the co. (founded in
1864) dates back to 1922, when the busi-
ness of Brown and Poison was purchased.
Divs. of 10 or p.c. were a regular
event until last term when, following a
four-for-five bonus-issue, the div.-rate
was lowered to p.c.—worth 13.5 p.c.
on pre-bonus holdings. Last September
shareholders were invited to take-up one
new ord. at par for every ten held, and
the co. now has a paid capital of £834,116,
all in £1 ords.
In the parent’s accounts to September
30, net profit rose by £29,963 to £68,217,
the consolidated accounts showing net
earnings of £68,787 after providing
£44,883 for depreciation and an unspeci-
fied amount for taxation:
Net To Re-
Sept., Profit. , Dividends serves. Reserves.t
£ £ * £ £'
1952.. 32,858 12J p.c. = 30,492' 2,366 233,553
1953.. 34,022 124 „ „ 30,492 3,530 237,083
Share premiums, £30,331 .. .. 267,414
1954.. 40,934 124 p.c. = 34,183 6,751 274,165
Added reserves, £277,818 .. .. 551,983
1955.. 38,254 124 p.c. = 38,074 180 552,163
Parent and Suusidiary.
Reserves capitalised, £336,872 .. 215,291
1956.. 68,787 p.c. = 56,847 11,940 227,231
t Subject to trade-marks, etc., £172,563.
The net profit was equal to a shade under
9.1 p.c. of the enlarged capital, and would
cover an unaltered p.c. distribution on
capital as it now stands with £6229 to
spare. Earning-rate on the lower capital
of the preceding term was 12.5 p.c. fol-
lowing -15.7, 13.9 and 13.4 p.c. back to
1952.
Although most of the cash from the
one-for-ten issue came in close to the end
of the term, there was a drop in working-
capital, possibly due to the nature of the
subsidiary’s assets. Current liabilities
exceeded current assets by £93,166, but
the liquid position may be better than it
appears, as provisions for contingencies
and taxation are tucked away under the
heading of creditors:
1954. 1955. 1956.*
Paid capital .. £304,592 . £421,092 £832,456
Reserves .. .. 274,165 552,163 227,231
Depreciation pro-
vision .. .. 301,646 326,576 440,895
Overdraft .. .. 45,421 162,725 345,537
Creditors, etc. .. 190,643 191,254 343,121
Final dividend .. 14,451 15,230 22,739
£1,130,918 £1,669,040 £2,211,979
Land, buildings .. 278,432 427,736 719,162
Plant, etc. . . 384,744 453,654 682,746
Shares subsidiary 287,462
Shares other cos. 20,144 21,045 19,277
Stock, etc. .. 250,393 216,298 402,399
Debtors .. .. 124,614 165,567 215,661
Due by subsidiary 24,666 -
Cash .. .. 91 112 171
Intangibles . . 72,500 72,500 172,563
£1,130,918 £1,669,040 £2,211,979
* Parent and subsidiary.
The inclusion of the subsidiary’s plant
and freeholds added £386,748 to the
book-value of fixed assets, which at
£1,401,908 exceeds the figure given for
the parent in the previous term by
£520,518. Provision for depreciation,
£440,895, is not deducted from the book-
value shown in the above tafile.
The new mill at Enfield (Sydney) is
still under construction but part of the
plant is now in operation and the trans-
fer of staff from inner-city premises has
commenced. The new building will
“ultimately eliminate’’ the need for “some
city properties.”
At 295. the f.-p £1 ords. return 5.1 p.c.
from a 1\ p.c. div., net tangible backing
at September 30 last amounting to
21s. 3d.
Stott and Underwood, Ltd.
ipROBABLY the most interesting
-*■ development in office-administration
since the stenographer came in about the
turn of the century has been the
remarkable advance made over the last
decade or so in the mechanisation of
bookkeeping procedures.
To modern business and government
the increasing versatility of the account-
ing-machine . has been the means of
lowering costs and providing a wide


DAVIES & COLUSON, Patent Attor-
ne>B, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Anv®.
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant super-
vision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDINER PTY. LTD. (E*t. 1919)
, Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY - BIT 3145
I*lB Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
KETP mom SAFE
sufith/
SANDERS
m
Correspondence, invoices,
statements, etc., filed in the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —or
Prices end fur»
ther information
upon application
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE # , Neman Brea. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE . » » Vardan Price Ltd.
PERTH nit Deeket Reek Co. (Amt.)
r
*
IN
g|SK' F REE
vestment
with a highly
satisfactory
return
Invest m the
COMMONWEALTH
SECURITY LOAN
Now Open
4%
You may select from
SECURITIES issued at par
Maturing May 15,
5% SECURITIES issued at par
Maturing April 15,
1965
Maturing April 15,
1976
Commonwealth Loan investors
also benefit by special taxation
concessions.
3% Commonwealth Securities
maturing April 15, 1957.
Authorised by the Commonwealth Treasury.
285L8.82
range of information accurately
and quickly.
For many years this Sydney-
registered co. has handled the
equipment of oversea manufac-
ti ,r ers Block and Anderson, Ltd!
(Banda duplicators and systems
machines), Original - Odhner
(calculating-machines), and the
American Underwood Corpora-
tion (Underwood typewriters,
Elliott-Fisher and Sundstrand
accounting-machines, etc.) in
N.S.W., and in 1953 acquired the
agencies for these products in
Victoria and Tasmania. There
is one subsidiary, the Precision
Parts Manufacturing Co., Ltd.,
which supplies machine-parts to
the parent. It became wholly-
owned in 1956. An interest in
another co., Professional Copy-
ing Service Pty., Ltd., was sold
in 1954.
The public became interested
in 1951, when 120,000 ss. shares
(a third of the issued capital)
were offered for sale at 12s. 6d.
each. Since then another £45,000
has been added, at par, to paid
capital, on which the co. has
paid a regular yearly 10 p.c.
div., for the most part with fairly
comfortable margins.
Last year a bigger volume and
range of machines was available
from Underwood’s new British
factory, and the Melbourne and
Port Kembla branches con-
tributed more to earnings ; so,
despite the higher taxation, up
£6500 (to £14,100) on the 13-
month-long 1955 term, net profit
was written £5686 stronger at
£20,026. Depreciation was up,
too, to £3075 (£3003): —
To Re- Re-
May, Profit. , —Dividends— N serves, serves.*
£> p jj?
’51.. 21,876 10 = 7,116 14,760 62,379
Unexplained addition, £152.. 62,531
’52..28,160 10 = 9,000 19,160 81,691
To retiring allowance, £4OOO. . 77,691
’63.. 20,012 10 = 9,000 11,012 88,703
Tax overprovided,- £352 .. 89,055
Profit sale shares, £899 . . 89,954
’54.. 16,622 10 = 9,000 7,622 97,576
June,
Tax overprovided, £154 .. 97.730
’55.. 14,340 10.8 = 10,725 3,615 101,345
Assets revalued, £41.512 .. 142,857
Goodwill written-off, £9OOO .. 133,857
Unexplained reduction, £3OOl 130,856
’56..20,026 10 = 13,500 6,526 137.352
* Subject to intangibles, £9OOO, 31/5/’55,
written out of accounts in the 1956
term.
As a percentage of mean capital
the £20,026 was 14.8 p.c., as
against 14.4 p.c. in 1955 and
18.4, 22.2, 32 and 24.3 p.c. back
to 1951. During the term the
co.’s premises in Sydney were
written-up to approximately
V.G. valuation, and the surplus
(£41,512) transferred to reserves.
Goodwill standing at £9OOO was
written-out of the accounts.
Chief movements in the bal-
ance-sheet were a lift of £71,815
in the item creditors and
income-tax provision, £42,692 in
stock, £13,780 in debtors, and the
writing-up of the Sydney free-
hold :
1954. 1955. 1956.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 90,000 135,000 135,000
Reserves .. 97,576 101,345 137,382
Mortgage . . 49,813 49,462 49,512
Overdraft .. 109,321 65,512 137,327
Creditors, tax
provision .. 47,582 74,004 53,507
Due to subsid. 554 658 1 .°O3
Final divs. .. 4,500 6,225 6,750
399,346 432,206 520,481
Freehold .. 98,335 98,335 142,067
Plant, vehicles 38,743 41,079 38,373
Shares in subsids. 1,005 1,005 2,265
Stock .. . . 154,831 187,504 230,196
Debtors .. 96,843 93,374 107,154
Cash prepay-
ments . . 589 1,909 426
Goodwill .. 9,000 9,000
399,346 432,206 520,481
Working-capital was barely
changed at £140,192.
Since the current term
began another branch has been
opened at Shepparton (Vic.) to
serve the cO.’s customers in that
area.
On ’Change news of a 20 p.c.
increase in importers’ quotas for
typewriters and accounting-
machines hasn’t produced any
noticeable reaction. At 6s.
(ss. 6d. a year ago) the f.-p. ss.
shares return 8.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover is
10s. Id. a share.
King Island Scheelite (1947)
nrHE sharp fall in tungsten
prices has not as yet had any
marked effect on the earnings of
King Island Scheelite (1947),
Ltd. The prosperity of the co.
over the past two or three years,
however, is largely due to
contracts for the supply of con-
centrates to the U.K. and U.S.
Governments at prices well above
those at present available on the
open market. The board has
never been particularly informa-
tive on the subject of these
contracts, but, allowing for
earlier extensions, the agreement
with the U.K. Government
should have expired about the
middle of last year while the
U.S. contract should run-out
some time this month.
The average price received per
unit of WO3 last term is not
disclosed, but it would be close
to the £25 Bs. sd. average
reported for the 1955 term, while
the current London price for
the ore (65 p.c. WO3) is around
£AII 10s. per unit.
In the latest accounts, to


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACK-bOjy d,
OSUIJJVAv
tf*, fiyud ~,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
"Watson, Ferguson 8t Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERB
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“national" ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“protecta” self-registering tills
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
October 31 last, insurances, pay-
roll tax and other sundry charges
are included with mining and
treatment costs to give a cost
per unit of £10.14 as agakist
£10.25 (calculated on the same
basis) in the previous term.
The ore is won from a big
open-cut mine on King Island
(Bass Strait) and mechanisation
of the mine and improvements
and additions to the treatment-
plant have led to improvements
in production and recovery over
the last five years. A large
quantity of overburden has to
be - removed to get at the ore,
1,512,500 tons (up 222,970 tons)
being handled last term to
enable extraction of 265,500
tons of ore:
, Oct. 31
1955. 1956.
Overburden, etc.,
tons .. .. 1,351,420 1,512,500
Ore milled, tons
(dry) .. .. 262,405 265,919
Head value, W 03.. 0.51 p.c. 0.54 p.c.
Concentrates, tons 1394.3 1521.4
Average grade, WO’3 66.8 p.c. 65.95 p.c.
WO3 units produced 93.119 100,340
Profit .. .. £1,014,661 £1,003,773
Div.—■
Rate .. ... 100 p.c 100 p.c.
Amount.. .. £500,000 £500,000
The higher throughput (up
3514 tons) and a much-improved
investment-income helped to lift
pre-tax earnings by £63,329 after
covering a £15,472 (up £11,722)
loss on sale of plant and £11,595
(nil in previous year) spent on
prospecting “outside properties.”
Provision for depreciation was
unaltered at £lOO,OOO, but an
extra £74,217 was set aside for
taxation (£323,552), leaving
net earnings, as claimed by the
co., down by £lO,BBB.
The £1,003,773 profit was
equal to 200 p.c. on the £500,000
paid-capital, 40 p.c. of the un-
changed 100 p.c. div. being free
of tax. Reserves, £1,803,930,
include a £150,000 provision
designed to absorb part of the
higher overburden expenditure
expected in the current term.
Investments and short-term
securities exceeded the paid-
capital by £411,017 at the end
of the term, and there was a
pleasing £30,627 jump in invest-
ment income, which, at £42,936,
was worth a little over sd. a ss.
share. Income from this source
may acquire a greater signi-
ficance if the co. is to sell its
output of concentrates on the
open market.
Ore reserves at October 31
last were calculated at 2,874,000
tons, averaging 0.48 p.c. WO3,
something under 11 years’ work
for the mill at last term’s rate
of throughput. A “reasonable
tonnage” of rutile has been
proved on the east coast of the
island, but, in view of the
present depressed market for the
oxide, the erection of a treat-
ment-plant has been deferred.
Further afield, the co. has joined
with Loloma (Fiji) Gold Mines,
N.L., and United Uranium, N.L.,
to prospect areas on the Tennant
Creek (N.T.) field, but no
details of the project have been
released since the announcement
of the partnership early this year.
Finances are comfortable —at
balance-date current assets (in-
cluding £411,156 in stores) and
investments exceeded liabilities
by £1,188,527, more than twice
the paid-up capital.
The f.-p. ss. shares last sold
at 28s. 3d. to return 17.6 p.c. on
the basis of a 100 p.c. distribu-
tion.
Silver Valley Uranium Mine
'T'HE board of Silver Valley
Uranium Mine, N.L., will
submit plans for a capital-
reorganisation to shareholders
next month. An earlier proposal
has now been withdrawn. This
proposal envisaged the forma-
tion of a holding co., Silver
Valley Holdings, Ltd., which
would have exchanged one f.-p.
Is. 6d. share for every ss. share
paid to Is. 6d. in the old co. To
acquire the 400,000 f.-p. ss.
vendor-shares the holding co.
was to issue a further 640,000
f.-p. Is. 6d. ords.
The plan was designed to elimi-
nate the uncalled liability attach-
ing to the 1,600,000 contribs. and
to write-off portion of the
capital represented by the f.-p.
vendor scrip. Some features of
the arrangement seemed to favor
holders of the vendor-shares,
although the contrib. - share-
holders were to suffer no loss
in the par-value of their hold-
ings. For the reorganisation, the
vendor scrip was valued at a frac-
tion under 2s. 5d., the contribs.
being exchanged at par. Calls on
the contribs. forecast in the pros-
pectus were not made, the scrip,
which has the same dividend-
earning power as the vendor-
shares, selling recently at Is. 7d.
In the original co. the vendors
held 20 p.c. of the voting-
power and stood to receive 20
p.c. of any distribution made.
In the new co., however, the scrip
exchanged for vendor-shares
would have carried 28.5 p.c. of
the voting-power and received
28.5 p.c. of total divs.
Formed in 1954 to prospect
for uranium, silver-lead, etc.,
Silver Valley Uranium paid
£lO,OOO in cash and £lOO,OOO in
scrip for lease-applications relat-
ing to areas in the Inverell
(N.S.W.) district. The public
put up £120,000. As the
“quantity and grade of ore”
located on the leases “did not
warrant further development,”
the co. turned its attention to
rutile and a treatment-plant has
now been erected at Evans Head
(N.S.W.). It is understood that
a royalty on rutile produced will
be payable to one of the original
vendors, now a director of the
co.
The directors state that the
anticipated rutile-production for
1957 has been sold forward at
prices “averaging approximately
£lOO per ton” (well above
current prices), and that
deliveries against these contracts
“will now proceed.” On this
basis prospects of a div. are less
remote than they were earlier in
the co.’s career. The accounts
for the year to June 30, 1956, are
not yet available.
Kalgoorlie Goldfields
Petroleum, N.L.
AT the annual meeting of
Kalgoorlie Goldfields
Petroleum this month share-
holders will be asked to approve
a plan for developing rutile-bear-
ing areas on the South Coast of
> T .S.W.
Formed in 1954 to prospect
for oil, the co. took-over two
exploration permits relating to
areas in West Australia. Report-
ing on a survey of the co.’s areas
a consulting geologist recently
stated that “one need, on
available evidence, not be
entirely pessimistic”—hardly an
encouraging statement: In any
case insufficient funds were
available to allow proper investi-
gation of areas “worthy of
further attention.”
Options have now been
obtained over areas “close” to
Sydney and Pt. Kembla, and grid-
boring tests have resulted in the
proving of 11,400 tons of rutile
and 14,850 tons of zircon. The
board considers that there is a
“much larger” tonnage available.
Two estimates of operating
costs have been drawn-up. The
first, based on the sale of 2500
tons of rutile a year at £65 a ton,
would enable recovery of capital-
expenditure and working and
overhead expenses within three
years. A maximum output of
3750 tons of rutile is considered
possible, and if this quantity
can be sold at £7O a ton costs and
capital - expenditure would be
fully covered in 18 months. No
value has been given to the
zircon produced in the periods
covered by the estimates.
There seems little chance of
rutile prices returning to the
boom levels of 1956, but the
price may eventually settle some-
where above the present level of
£55-£65 a ton. The board
expects to finance the project
without making a call on its
contrib.-shareholders.
On October 31 last the
balance-sheet showed cash and
deposits of £55,927 and creditors
of £125. Paid capital amounted
to £93,977, and £80,682 had been
received on forfeited shares.
Sellers are currently asking 7d.
for the ss. shares paid to Is. 6d.
Ml. Isa Mines, Ltd.
A MT. ISA Mines survey-
party testing an outcrop
about 400 air-miles north-west
of Mt. Isa has found evidence
of “encouraging lead mineralisa-
tion.” The outcrop has been
delineated by surface trenches
and is approximately 400 ft. long
with an average width of 120 ft.,
going about 10 p.c. lead.
A “great amount” of pros-
pecting-work will be necessary
to determine the extent of the
deposit, and, according to the
chairman, it may take “more
than two years” to determine
whether mining operations
could be justified.
Since the announcement of
the discovery last week buyers
of Mt. Isa’s f.-p. ss. shares have
raised their bids from 365. 4d.
to 38s. 9d. Earlier this year the
co. revealed plans to lift ore-
production from 4000 to 13,000
tons a day over the next five
years if Federal and State
Governments agreed to improve
the Townsville-Mt. Isa rail-link.


MUM
- 4
0M
r * A
permanent asset
on your property
• Heavy gauge galvanized steel sheets
• Easily erected permanent
• Rodent and weatherproof
• Hinged type bag holder
on 1000-8500 Bushel Silos
• Steel earth rings and
loading platforms are
available as extras if
required
• Prompt delivery
y
LYSAGHT
Grain Silos
EARTH RING
An earth ring, which is an extra
ring of corrugated steel sheets
filled with earth or sand, is a
most effective and economical
method of erecting an elevated
base for your Lysaght Silo. The
use of an earth ring reduces the
risk of underground seepage.
Full' details are available on
request.
AUGERS
A completely new type grain
auger is now available to fill
and empty Lysaght Silos.
Write for further information and Agents' Names to • —
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, or John Lysaght I Australia I Pty. Ltd. la
all Canlta' Ci l ler.
S26a
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
"MOW that the dust has
1 ~ settled, people are coming
round to the view that the
industrial situation has been
over-publicised and, unfor-
tunately for us all, over-
dramatised. Wouldn’t it, per-
haps, have been wiser to
have let the shipbuilding
workers feel the pinch until,
neighbors and wives having lost
sympathy with them, they
drooped back to work? For,
runs the argument, too high
a price can be paid even for
peace. The issue is not whether
workers should be paid more
but whether concessions at the
present time will give another
twist to the inflationary spiral.
The sharemarket, it’s true,
reacted with buoyancy but not
necessarily out of confidence
that inflation is being held in
check. In fact, the Transport
Commission offer to the rail-
waymen of a 5 per cent, pay-
increase (comparing with an
earlier offer of 3 per cent.) is so
fundamentally inflationary as
to be quite shocking. The
“Financial Times” affirms that
the settlement represents “a
total and undisguised defeat for
the policy of containing infla-
tion,” and that “The commis-
sion has pushed concession too
far, and the Government must
be assumed to have aided and
abetted it.”
These sentiments will be
endorsed in all the board-
rooms, where it will be asked
how the Government can con-
fidently plead for industry to
resist wage-claims when, at
another level, it connives at
their being granted. And,
while there is everything to be
said for the so-called “pack-
age” agreements whereby the
unions agree to suspend restric-
tive practices, demarcation and
the like, past experience of
their fulfilment is not very
encouraging.
Homespun Filigree
An unworldly matron whose
son is Parliamentary private-
secretary to a pompous and
self-satisfied Colonial Secre-
tary is suddenly faced with a
crisis—the resignation of her
cook. What more natural than
that she should take the same
line of action as that being
pursued, with ostentatious
righteousness, by her son and
his .chief over a rebelliously
independent colony?
This apparently theatre-
proof situation is the theme
of William Douglas Home’s
comedy extravagance, “The
Iron Duchess” (Cambridge
Theatre). Yet, despite the
clever writing and working-
out, the two planes obstinately
refuse to converge. Gimalta,
the old and faithful colony, is
just as remote from Mrs.
Green, the old and faithful
cook, at the end of the play
as at the beginning.
It is not that the short
duration —less than 24 hours
—is devoid of incident. The
grounds of Cranshaws Castle
ring so loudly with amplified
phrases of the eloquent
Minister (“What we have we
hold”) as to bombard even the
drawing-room with their cal-
culated import. His Grace,
ever a simple man to whom
high-ups are remembered
merely as fags, has played
truant by going a-fishing. Her
Grace is pleasantly scatter-
brained, taking an immediate
fancy to the uninvited guest,
none other than the Gimaltan
Minister. Mrs. Green, in no
uncertain terms, delivers her
ultimatum. Because of the
emergency the sherry decanter
contains whisky and the vicar’s
wife gets tight, saying all the
wrong things. Mrs. Green runs
amuck with a rifle and a bottle
of gin. As events worsen in
Gimalta, her Grace takes com-
mand on the home front,
mobilises her husband’s con-
siderable sporting armory and
details a firing-party to execute
the cook . . .
But no one comes to any
harm. Shots are fired, in con-
fusion rather than in anger.
The offstage Gimaltan rebel,
imminently in danger of
judicial death* is pardoned.
Mrs. Green gets her way, only
to return after a moment’s
freedom. And the characters
walk arm-in-arm across the
lawn to church.
This is a delicately-conceived
play which bears the light
touch and subtle insight of an
author of high craftsmanship
and innate purity of style.
Unlike “The Reluctant
Debutante,” it doesn’t quite
succeed.
The acting, also on two
planes, is convergent and
complementary. William
Mervyn’s “Poona Percy” is
realistic enough to drive any
public speaker apprehensively
to his tape-recorder, while, at
the other level, Athene Seyler
romps enjoyably, if a shade
glossily, as the Duchess; but
that pastmaster of the throw-
away, Ronald Squire, is richly
and impeccably cast as the
sublimely moronic Duke.
Swelter
There’s dope, Tennessee
Williams, Gian-Carlo Menotti
and pretty nearly everything
that makes an innocent’s blood
curdle in Michael V. Gazzo’s
“A Hatful of Rain,” which
Sam Wanamaker has brought
to the Princess Theatre. Hardly
a laughing matter. Johnny
(Bonar Colleano), sometime a
G.I. in Korea, is a “junkie,”
or drug-addict, who has suc-
cessfully kept this from his
wife (pregnant) and father
(doting) but not from his
brother (soft-hearted). Having
bled all the brother’s money,
the guilty secret must out. It
does, apparently hurting Pop’s
pride more than honey’s,
although an imminent mis-
carriage is not inconsiderable
as a measure of shock.
To add to the foetid swelter,
the dope-peddlers typify all the
horrors of degradation, from
violence to softness of the
brain And, though Sally Ann
Howes makes a patient wife
and Wanamaker an unflinch-
ing big brother, this same
actor’s production is over-
charged to the extent of near-
burlesque. There are some
frightening, even terrible
moments, particularly when
the craving is at its fiercest
Certainly no laughing matter.
More like a nightmare.


Love's a Lottery
By JOHN MORRISON
THREE men, workmates
in a small factory near
by, came into a
Melbourne outer
suburban hotel one afternoon
about four-o’clock.
The place was deserted
except for a few travellers and
two steady topers nodding and
murmuring over their drinks on
a bench along the wall. Two
barmen were on duty, both
yarning with a truck-driver
near the door leading into the
saloon and bottle-department.
The three workmates made
for the other end, and one of
the barmen, with a glance at
the clock, came down to serve
them.
“What’s up down at Puppy-
Plastics —no orders?”
All three were wearing
happy smiles.
“We got enough orders to
last us till Pancake Day,” said
one of them, a stout, elderly
man tidily dressed in going-
home clothes.
“Three pots, Jim, and mind
your own business,” said
another, a big boisterous-look-
ing young fellow in overalls.
The third, a lean little man
with wispy hair and features
all drawn downwards with
either prolonged worry or pro-
longed pain, just watched
shyly as if not quite sure
whether he should be there or
not.
“Put yourself in,” said the
big fellow. “We got something
to celebrate.”
The barman filled a small
glass for himself, observing
each man with a growing
curiosity as he set out the pots.
The big fellow picked up
his drink and leaned over the
bar. “Jim,” he said impres-
sively, “d’you know what
you’re looking at?”
“Three”
“You’re looking at ten
thousand quid, son! We got
Tatt.’s!”
“What?”
“Sssh keep your voice
down. We don’t want all the
bar around us. It’s dmVum.
We got first prize; ten
thousand quid.”
JIM turned to the elderly man.
“You tell me, Joe.”
Joe nodded towards the lean
one outside his big mate. “Ever
seen Ernie looking so pleased
with himself? He hasn’t got his
voice back yet.”
. “He’s going to leave Iris on
the strength of it,” put in the
big fellow.
“I wouldn’t blame him for
that, Bob.” The barman still
seemed incredulous. “Now on
the level”
“Stone the crows —don’t we
look like ten thousand quid!”
“You beauts!” A warm
smile lit up the barman’s face.
“Well, good luck to you all!”
They drank.
“You was due for it; you
been taking tickets a long time.
Here, I been waiting all my life
to shake hands with ten
thousand quid” . . .
There followed handshakes
all round, curious eyes watch-
ing them from the other end
of the bar. Big Bob did most
of the talking, with Joe put-
ting in a few words now and
then, and Ernie still rather
withdrawn.
“Wasn’t young Alec in it?”
asked the barman.
“Yes, he’s in it, but he shot
through like a Bondi tram the
minute the telegram arrived.
Cripes, he was funny. I told
him: that won’t keep you the
rest of your life, son. ‘lt’ll keep
me for a bloody month, mate! ’
he sings out, and he’s gone.”
“In a hurry to tell Mum, I
suppose. It’s a wonder you
didn’t all turn it up for the
day.”
“We was going to, but
Shack sort of appealed to us.
There was orders to get out,
and he ain’t a bad boss. And
we got sense enough to realise
a man can’t retire on two
thousand five hundred.”
“What’re you all going to do
with it?”
“Pay me house off,” said Bob
promptly. “Nobody’ll ever
push me around once I get the
landlord off me back.”
“I’ve pretty well got all I
need,” said Joe. “I’ve had a
good home with the daughter
since Mum died, so I’ll see she
and her husband get a chop.
I might give myself a bit of a
tour somewhere when the
weather cools off.”
“How about you, Ernie?”
A LL three of them turned to
the lean man with the
worried face. They had a
special, rather gentle, attitude
towards him. Their attention
seemed to embarrass him, and
he picked up his pot to cover
his confusion.
“I keep thinking we’ll get
another telegram saying there’s
been a mistake,” he said, and
they all laughed.
“He’s still trying to make up
his mind about Iris,” Bob
informed Jim. “I’ve been at
him all day. I’ve been telling
him this is the chance he’s been
waiting for.”
“And I’ve kept telling you
it’s a problem Ernie’s got to
work out for himself,” put in
Joe.
“He should be able to do
something about it now,
though,” suggested the barman,
and left them to serve some
customers who had just come
in.
“I’ll be all right,” said Ernie,
quite civilly, but in the tone
of a man who wants to be left
alone.
Joe winked at Bob to let the
matter drop, and the big fellow
drew himself up, hunched his
shoulders, and stared aggres-
sively along the bar.
“By jeese, isn’t everything
different when you got
dough!”
“Everything’s the same,”
commented Joe. " You're dif-
ferent.”
“No. No, I’m not having a
shot. You want to watch out
for yourself, though. Money
has some funny effects on
blokes that aren’t used to it.
Years ago I had a cobber won
it, the whole ten thousand to
himself. He was in his fifties,
always been a hard battler. He
give up work, but told me he
could never get used to it. He
said he used to get a funny
feeling watching other blokes
going off to work of a morn-
ing, a kind of guilty feeling, as
if he was doing something
wrong.”
“I know. The way I’ve seen
horses hang around a stock-
yard after the ones that was
wanted had been cut in. He
missed his mates, that was all.
It wouldn’t get me down.”
“I’ve seen some good men
spoiled by money.”
“And I’ve seen some good
ones spoiled for want of it.
Drink up. For the first time
in me life I know I can afford
this.”
They -drank on, talking
happily in a little world of their
own. With the approach of
five-o’clock more workers
came in, so that they had to
stand firmly to hold their posi-
tions at the bar.
A FTER the first round Ernie
had gone on to ponies. He
was still preoccupied, taking
little part in the conversation,
staring for long periods into
his glass, and glancing
frequently at the clock as if
measuring how much longer
he had before facing an
imminent crisis.
His two mates drank pot for
pot, with the older man show-
ing a much better capacity for
taking it. Puffing steadily at a
well-seasoned pipe, Joe stood
with one elbow on the bar,
listening with an indulgent
smile to the increasingly-idle
chatter of Bob, but all the time
shrewdly observing the silent
Ernie on the other side.
“Better call it a day after this
one,” he said after about the
sixth round. “The women’ll be
waiting for us.”
“Don’t start worrying about
the women,” exclaimed Bob.
“I told Nell over the phone
I’d be home at the usual time.
And Iris don’t even know yet,
does she, Ernie?”
“She might,” qualified Ernie.
“She’d have rung up, like
Nell did. That’s what I keep
telling you—she don’t even
know.”
This brought Bob back to
the subject he’d been wrangling


since morning. His speech was
getting thick and he was ho
longer in the mood to be put-
off. Easing himself away from
the bar with a thrust of his
powerful arms he pulled the
little man in next to Joe and
took up the outside position
himself.
“Come in here where we can
talk to you, you poor little hen-
pecked bastard. What’re we
going to do about him, Joe?
We can’t let him go home like
this.”
“I’m all right,” protested
Ernie. “I’m not full”
“You’re not full enough
What’re you going to do —tell
Iris?”
“I’ve got to tell her. It’ll be
all over town”
“Jim didn’t know. Iris won’t
know unless she’s been down
the street. Nobody would
enjoy , going to tell her. Fair
clinkum now, Joe, what would
you do if you was in Ernie’s
place? Come on, out with it.”
“I told you this morning
what I thought about it. Ail
he’s got to *do is bank the
money in his own name and
he’s got the game sewn-up.”
“He’ll never get around to
banking it in his name. Once
Iris knows about it she’ll lay
heiself out to get hold of that
cheque. And we know Ernie’s
form. He’s got to shoot-through
before she gets on to it. Don’t
say nothing about it tonight,
Ernie. You get your own
breakfast, don’t you? All right,
you j us t get U p the morn-
jn p ac k whatever you can lay
hands on, and head for the
scru b. You can kid her along
, onight even i£ she know s
about jt What have you got
\ .
>° worry about? You got your
home paid-up and your lamuy
/° ur hands - Skin out ;
Send her a cheque now and
*en if it's on your m.nd-
V ou dbe ln the clear - The law
can make a man support a
wif f- but * «“>’« make “»*
Wlth her - cn P es > Id fix
* U was ” e “^ er t !
-Sydney or the Bush! Fill
em U I ) ’
“T’VE made up my mind,”
said Ernie rather shame-
facedly. “She might be
different now with a bit of
money to spend.”
“She’s always had money to
spend. You’ve turned in every
cracker you ever earned. She’ll
never be any different, I’ve
heard you say so yourself.
What’re we going to do with
him, Joe?”
‘‘Nothing,” said Joe
decisively. “I know Ernie, and
1 know exactly what would
happen if he left Iris in the
mind he’s in now.”
“What?”
“He’d come back. He
wouldn’t know a minute’s
peace wherever he went. He’d
never settle down, not any-
where. He’s the wrong type,
and he’s left his gallop too
Jate anyhow. If a man marries
the wrong woman he should
call it a day the minute he
wakes up to her. The longer
he leaves it the harder it gets.
You’ve got to do these things
when you’re young ; it takes a
kind of guts. The only thing
that would save Ernie now
would be another woman.
Another woman could push
“What have I got to be happy about?
What have I ever had to be thankful for?”
him into it easy. And I’m not
talking of sex. It’s a matter;
of ... of companionship.”
Ernie had looked up when
Joe began to talk, and followed
him with absorbed interest. But
at Joe’s concluding remarks he
smiled dryly and went back '.o
his moody contemplation of
the bar.
“There shouldn’t be no
trouble about another woman,”
urged Bob. “Not with two-
thousand-five-hundred quid in
the pouch.”
Joe shook his head. “No.
That’s what I meant when I
said Ernie’s the wrong type.
He’d never give another woman
a start. That’s been the root of
his trouble. He’s a one-woman
man, and Iris has always
known it. It’s always blokes
like Ernie that fall for women
like Iris. Another woman
would have hooked him off her
years ago if he’d been that way
inclined.”
“Bui, spare me days, Joe, we
got to do something about it!”
“You don’t have to worry
about me,” broke in Ernie with
a hint of irritation. “A lump
of money like this must make
a difference. She’s been want-
ing a washing-machine”
“She’s always had a washing-
machine!”
Ernie colored a little at that,
but let it go with an uneasy
laugh. “It isn’t as bad as that.”
He lifted his glass. “Anyway,
it’s time we were going.”
“I’m not going till I know
what you’re doing,” announced
Bob belligerently. “Look here,
Joe, this is serious. You know
as well as I do what he’s going
home to. This is a mate of
ours. Once Iris gets her hands
on that cheque”
"CRNIE had turned his back
on the bar to move out,
but a firm arm fell across his
middle:
“Hold on. Just one more
jound and I’ll give it away.
Listen to me. The trouble With
you is that you’re forgetting.
I'm not. She’ll be crooked on
you coming in late with a few
pots under the belt, won’t she?”
Ernie nodded reluctantly.
“Even though you don’t
spend a fiver a year on booze.
She’s just crooked on it, like
she is on everything else you
ever wanted to do. Does she
still use the sewing-machine
Saturday afternoons when you
want to listen to the football
broadcasts? How about the
time she sent your suit to the
cleaners the day before the
Grand Final? You forgetting
that?”
(Continued on page 56)




THE ROYAL CASTER SHOW.
Oh, Outback Fred is six-foot-two without an ounce of fat.
He wears elastic-sided boots and a distinctive hat
So broad of brim, with such a charming feather in the band,
That Sydney slickers turn right round to wring him by the hand.
With knowing grin they wink at strangers when they see him stalk
Against the traffic or along the wrong side of the walk.
His presence is from Far and Wide. He is not made for hurry.
His moves are tuned by beasts and trees, by rivers like the Murray. j
All Sydney Town observes him with a sort of kindly glow,
Saying “It’s clear another year has brought another Show.”
At Parramatta, day by day, in eighteen-twenty-four,
Bluestone was rubbed on flogged men’s backs while all their cuts were ray
And drunken redcoats, lustful lags, and quarrelsome carousers
Made life discouraging for toffs, for softies, and for wowsers;
The hapless abo. near the inn, with lubra, spear and dog,
Was bound to die of measles or of hanging or of grog;
The parting horseman, venturing upon the Sydney road,
Looked to his gun or pistol, crying “Boys, it’s time to load!”
Yet in that year, and in that place, the Easter Show was born
And probably, though no one knows, it was a rainy mom.
Towards Macquarie’s whitewashed walls, the factory, and the market,
The battlers bearing spuds or beans in basket or in bucket,
Emancipists who owned a cow, a fruit-tree or a pig,
Ticket-of-leavers who had saved enough to buy a gig,
They brought their produce, all they could, and set it on display.
Tobacco was the star exhibit, that Show Day. \
Some forty-five years later saw the raincloud thick and dark
Hovering in its Show Day mood above Prince Alfred Park,
And later still the present site, in eighteen-eighty-two,
Became the Showground, and remains our rainswept rendezvous.
From far and near the people now begin to gather round,
By trams and cars and bikes and buses hasting to the Ground.
In summer garb they twinkle forth from little flats and villas,
Bearing on arm, as a precaution, raincoats and umbrellas,
Yearning to feast their eyes on dogs and windmills and chinchillas,
On model trains and cocks and rams and engineering jobs,
On unexampled percherons with tails done up in knobs,
On Grand Parades and patent foods and microscopes and roses,
On champion bulls with little boys to hold them by their noses,
On mighty ploughs to clear the roads after an alpine storm,
On stays and stmts and cunning tmsses for the female form.
AH things that Man can make or grow, or Woman can desire
—Need I say more? —are here today for the whole world to admire.
Meanwhile, for some, the sideshows are the essence of the Show.
Here Grandma and the five-year-old will lightly blew their dough.
Merry-go-rounds and hooplas and mysterious tents and booths
Where rival spruikers boom and shrill their colorful untruths,
Where clowns and jugglers temptingly give glimpses of their art
And at each moment every turn is “Just about to start!”—
Nothing in all the world is more alluring to the heart.
The loveliest thing in the whole Show—she leaves the boys agog—>
Is neither champion pig nor pumpkin, dahlia nor dog,
But is instead a lofty lady garmented in black,
With hunting-stock and boots and bowler, mounted on a hade.
Unhorse her not, Oh, let her stay exalted in the saddle,
For fear we find she walks knock-kneed, bow-legged, or with a waddle.
How like a duchess on her steed she undulates along,
With now and then a cheerful word for someone in the throng,
Such as “Hello there, George and May! What’ll we do tonight?
I’m in a mood for dinner-dancing somewhere pretty bright!”
Oh, yes, for all her fancy togs she’s not the least bit snooty.
She’s just a real Australian sport. On horseback she’s a beauty.
Now Outback Fred and Outback Dick and Outback George and Ernie
Press to the fore in every crowd and join in every tourney.
At woodchop or rodeo, at the contests in the Ring,
Their downright gutsy gumption is a grand poetic thing.
The manly way they swagger, the stupendous deeds they do,
Make them the heroes of the kids, the kings of this shivoo.
Oh, there’s a festal feeling now. Outsiders wouldn’t know
Just what a dinkum Cornstalk feels about the Easter Show.
Country and Town with open hearts admire each other’s work,
And Bondi Bill’s in full accord with Bill from Back o’ Bourke.
As for the kids from city streets or from the Never-Never,
The life for them, the life of lives, the most exciting ever,
Would be to roam by caravan (as proper Show-folk roam)
From end to end of New South Wales, in every place at home,
From Outback Show to Outback Show, by mountain and by plain,
With every year a grand return to Sydney once again.
Wake up, wake up there, sleepyhead! Get moving, everyone!
The rain has gone. The waving flags are flashing in the sun
Above the lofty grandstands. And the Sydney Show is on!
N.S.W.
JOHN THOMPSON.


LOW's
AUGUSTUS JOHN
(Among the many fine ones in David Low’s splendid “New Statesman”
series. In an earlier instalment Low recorded having first called on Augustus
John, to find himself in a lively party in the studio. “All I could remember
of John,” he added, “was one glaring eye and a wild smile”)
Snapshot memories of the London blitz . . .
David Low buries some treasure . . . becomes
a Voice of the 8.8. C. ... A broadcast to
Australia.
24
( Continued)
HE public had heard the Nazi voices
rasping menacingly in a foreign tongue
and Chamberlain’s pained expostulations
back. But not one in a hundred had a
clear notion why the British had to go
to war precisely at this point for
Poland. Confusion.
But if it was, too complicated to say what the
war was for, it was easy enough to say whom it
was against. That was the Germans, at it a second
time. Meanings and reasons seemed to have
disappeared.
Clear as were the ideologies and stark the
issues, very few even of the “educated classes”
had any idea that wasn’t completely foolish about
the essential principles of Nazism, Fascism,
Communism, Democracy, however much they
talked about the-labels.
We had a noble cause, but nobody seemed
to know about it.
Almost overnight a vast bureaucracy erected
itself around the function of “telling the world.”
Obviously the old-school-tie brotherhood had
moved in. It surprised me to find how many
bright lads of my own acquaintance all of a
sudden turned up in jobs connected with censor-
ship or information. Surprised, I say, because it
had never occurred to me that they had any
particular fitness for such jobs.
One day a letter arrived for me within two
sealed envelopes, one inside the other, very
important-looking. The utmost secrecy was
imperative evidently. It was from someone I did
not know inviting me to call on his chief.
Duly I went to the inconspicuous address
given, was passed through three doors by three
different officials and into the presence of the
Brain.
“Why, hullo, David!”
“Why, hullo, Valentine! What the”
He turned out to be a friend of mine who
could have rung me up on the telephone and
saved himself some trouble. But in civilian life
he was a thriller-writer, which accounted for the
cloak-and-dagger approach perhaps.
I had never suspected this genial chap of
having any flair for propaganda, nor, indeed, any
familiarity with the techniques of persuasion. His
province, it appeared, was the leaflets dropped
from our planes, and he wanted me to make some
cartoons for them.
I agreed with alacrity.
He showed me a sample leaflet—a miniature
newspaper. I looked at it, and then at him. The
Bavarian farmers upon whose heads this effort
was to flutter were to be subverted by being told
that Hitler would take all their crops, that Hitler
had sold them out to the Russians, that the
Bolsheviks were coming! Awake! Arise! Don’t
fight the French and British!
In the circumstances of that time, with Hitler
rampaging victorious, and the Russians practically
hiding under the bed, the thing seemed to me
childish.


Autobiography
“What do you think of it,
David?”
I said mildly that it was one
of the most foolish documents
I had ever seen, and that if
young men were risking their
necks to drop this tripe over
Germany someone should be
arrested.
Was this our reply to the
most e_.cient propaganda-
factory in history? Was this
our counter to those devilishly
clever Nazi leaflets that were
rotting French morale and
splitting the Allies?
A good example lay on the
table —the famous twin-pictures
leaflet, the first showing a
British and a French soldier
side by side poised to dive into
the swimming-bath of blood,
the British soldier saying
“Ready—One—Two” ; the
second showing the French
soldier splashing in up to his
neck, the British soldier remain-
ing where he was “Three!”
It was reported to have been
uncomfortably effective. A
potent discord-sower.
I had been told often enough
that the British never had taken
propaganda seriously, because
they believed in themselves so
much as to regard the rightness
of their cause to be self-
evident. Certainly, although
they were fighting what was
ostensibly a war of ideas, in
striking contrast to the Nazis,
the Russians, the French and
the Americans they placed little
value upon the presentation of
their case to the enemy in
cartoons.
Seething with humility, I
nevertheless made several draw-
ings for the news-sheet. One
was printed—a picture of a
German soldier writing to his
mother. I cannot believe it
affected the course of the war.
©N two other occasions I
lent my aid to the
authorities.
There were the weeks when,
under Ministry persuasion, I
stopped drawing cartoons to
tour the American camps in
company with a visiting
American journalist, making
drawings that were to appear
from one end of the United
States to the other to sweeten
Anglo-American relations. The
authorities had omitted to
make proper arrangements for
publication, so none of the
drawings ever sew the light.
Again, there was the little
matter of th. - * design of
Churchill I made for a special
Toby-mug which was to be
sold in vast quantities in the
United States to help our
special export-drive—and, of
course, sweeten Anglo-
American relations.
There was much official
correspondence, congratula-
tions and admiration, until it
came out that there were no
orders for such a mug and
no one proposed to make it.
It occurred to me that I was
wasting my time trying to play
ball with ineptness and
futility. After that I
minded my own busi-
ness and conducted my
own war.
THERE were still wide
reprinting arrangements
for my “Evening Standard”
war-cartoons in free Europe,
the Americas and the British
Commonwealth. The “New
York Times” gave me a good
showing and I was now sending
special stuff by radio regularly
to “Collier’s” in the United
States.
My fancy of twelve years
before —a world issue of my
cartoons beamed from London
—took a step forward.
Sometimes at first the results,
legarded as art, were dreadful.
More like studies in ectoplasm
than cartoons.
Radio transmission, I found,
required a special adaptation of
technique. Faces in dark lines
like that of Goebbels, for
instance, travelled well, but I
always had great difficulty in
sending Hitler’s eyes across.
ELIOTH GRUNER
(Like the other three
on this page, this
neat little sketch
is from Low’s
“Bulletin” carica-
tures.)
Unaccountably one or both
would disappear on the way.
Bad weather, too, caused
freakish transmission. Some-
times a short, dumpy Goring
would encounter a thunder-
storm en route and come out
the other end a tall thin chap.
The problems involved gave
me much trouble, not the least
part of which was due to the
need for me personally to have
these drawings for America
passed by the Censorship. All
would have been well, since
they obviously dealt with
opinion and not with military
secrets, had it not been that
I had the bad luck to encounter
an examiner who didn’t know
about cartoons.
Apparently I was a unique
case, since nobody else wanted
to send cartoons. He had no
cartoon-sense and would argue
MAX MELD RUM
W. B. GRIFFIN, the architect of
Canberra.
Artist FRED McCUBBIN, “discoursing
on atmosphere."


the point about details, suspect-
ing any little piece of back-
ground to be a map of the
coastal defences.
To make matters worse the
stupid oaf couldn’t tell the
difference between my cartoon
versions of Goring and
Mussolini, and, quite outside
his line of duty, would inflict
on me his pitiful ideas on the
world situation and how
undesirable it was to irritate
Mussolini.
At length I was rescued by
an alert colleague and taken to
the Chief Censor. He was an
admiral, but a sympathetic
admiral. After that a simple
routine was established which
lasted until the end of the war.
©NE urgent need of the
time, to my way of think-
ing, was a simple statement
understandable to the meanest
intelligence of what had led up
to the war.
There were many books
written by clever chaps for
clever chaps, but few of these
would be read by the masses.
It seemed to me a useful, even
an essential, part of our defence
that everybody should know
what the war was about.
I collected a hundred
cartoons telling the story and
knitted the sequence into a
story with a terse commentary
in words, and Allen Lane, one
of the liveliest publishers in
Britain, produced Europe Since
Versailles as a Penguin book
at sixpence.
Its acceptability was proved
immediately. In quick time it
sold a quarter of a million
copies.
These enterprises took up
time. I had a pretty full day
when to them were added part
of the universal war-chores:
some clumsy drill, at which I
found a rifle heavier than a
brush; attending an
ambulance-class; and patrol-
ling a couple of streets two
nights a week with a stirrup-
pump and a bucket of water,
while also keeping close watch
to see that enemy spies did not
steal my little heap of sand.
(c* IX months passed in a.
Maginot dream. The Battle
of Norway was a sharp
reminder that the British, far
from being equal to the test of
modern war, had not even
begun to think of it in the right
terms.
Retreat, reverse, retreat.
After turning out my cartoon
for next day I went to see how
Parliament was taking it.
In the peculiar half-light of
the House of Commons,
fantastic things were going on.
Looking down out of my seat
in the press-gallery people who
had been just people now
enlarged to historic size, others
shrunk to vanishing-point. “In
the name of God .. .Go !” said
a monument about ten-feet
high that a few moments
before had been little Leopold
Amery.
Chamberlain sat yellow,
glazed of eye, the picture of
personal tragedy. How
different from the immaculate,
confident Junior Minister I had
seen enter the House in 1922.
But now Britain needed not
a whistle but a trumpet,
Churchill with the music of
Demosthenes’ philippics in his
back-pocket was just right.
TcpVERYTHING wakened up
when Hitler’s armies
opened battle on the west and
displayed the woeful weakness
of democracy’s defences. Our
warlords had forgotten motor-
cycles.
Under these dismal circum-
stances I discovered the,
acoustic pioperties of Hamp-
stead Heath; the distant
thunder of the guns could be
heard distinctly from across the
Channel as our British troops
were pushed to the pocket of
Dunkirk.
As 1 walked daily across the
Heath to my studio, trying to
focus and digest the news, I
stopped and listened. I felt
a heavy weight in my chest.
Curious, a heart as heavy
as lead was literal truth, not
poetic fancy.
AFTER Dunkirk, Britain
was, by all military reckon-
jng, defeated.
Fortunately, as an earlier
dictator is said to have
remarked, the stupidity of the
British is such that they never
realise they are beaten until the
occasion is past and a new one
has arisen.
I was amazed to note how
few realised the size of the
disaster, and how everyone
appeared to think we had won
some kind of a victory in get-
“VERY WELL, ALONE!”
(Possibly Low’s finest war-time cartoon. Like the other one from the “Evening
Standard” on the next page, it is referred to in the present instalment.)
ting so many men off the
beaches.
The coastal defences now
being extended in such a hurry
might have held off the ancient
Romans, but we could no more
have stopped a well-equipped
and determined assault on the
coast in 1941 than could the
Nazis later have stopped the
Allied invasion of Europe—if
we had already lost the air.
Fortunately we had not lost
the air—yet. But nobody could
know in advance that the
R.A.F. would beat off the
much-advertised Luftwaffe,
What had we before us?
*TpHE answer was not long
nor the oppor-
tunity for the inhabitants of
London to show what they
were made of under one of the
most searching ordeals of his-
tory. It was very gratifying to
have the rest of the world
raving with admiration at one's
fellow-citizens 1 as it was
pieasant to have us all, for a
change, admiring one another.
But for all the Churchill
assurances at the microphone
that this was Britain’s “finest
hour” ; and despite the firm
resolve in my suburb (and there
were many indications that it
was representative) that the
invaders would meet a
desperate defence by the whole
population with any weapons
bandy, it would have been
over-romantic not to recognise
that the chances were against
us.
Britain might be occupied
and identified enemies of
Nazism shot. I was reliably
informed that my name stood
high on the Gestapo list of
those who would not enjoy a
happy old age. (A report which
was confirmed by official docu-
ments found in the Berlin
headquarters of the Reich
Security Police after the war.)
It struck me that, in the
circumstances, and remember-
ing the Nazi treatment of
family hostages. I should take
measures to deal with the
safety of an aged mother and
aunt, and a wife and two
daughters.
That necessitated a scurrying-
about by car to Wales and the
Midlands looking for suitable
bolt-holes in which if necessary
the identities of old ladies
could be temporarily lost and
their persons disappear in the
crowd.
I was glad the necessity to
put this project into practice
did not arise ; for I was sure
the removal of my two old
ladies from their London home
would have begun a new war.


WITH my own family, I
worked out simple plans
for use if we were forced apart
or scattered in some blind rush.
We should have an annual
rendezvous, password and all,
at the White Stone Pond,
Hampstead, at . 2 p.m. on
Christmas Day.
In one way 1 rather regretted
that one never came off. The
mental picture of Daddy toiling
up the hill disguised in a large
red beard was very tempting.
MAVING arranged tenta-
tively to dispose more-or-
less of my women I turned to
lesser matters. I dug a deep
hole in the garden, made a
concrete box at the bottom of
it in which I buried my intimate
archives.
I deposited my files and
iecords in a safety deposit.
That was a mistake, for they
were neatly blown-up by one
of the first bombs. Fortunately
1 had carefully hidden six
parcels of duplicates with
trusted friends in other parts
of the country.
In another place I buried a
sizeable wad of currency in a
sealed tin. Goodness knows
what was the point of that,
except that 1 thought it would
be nice to know where there
was some money, however
much it might be depreciated
in value by an occupying
Power. I figured that if 1 were
on the run and hard-pressed I
might have a better chance to
rob my hiding-spot than any-
where else.
HT seems evident by all this
that in times of peril I revert
iw uaiiovving iype, seeking
security in holes in the ground.
Many among my acquaint-
ances and friends, who were
also known to be on the
Gestapo list, had other ideas.
I admired the foresight of one
politician who, to guard against
just such a situation, for
months had been at work build-
ing himself a completely
separate second identity in the
Midlands.
One or two took the situa-
tion with phlegm, leaving action
to the inspiration of the last
moment. Others showed agita-
tion. One chap took me aside
and wanted me to take one of
his little poison capsules for
use in an extremity. Another
tentatively offered me the last
seat in a launch bound for
Canada.
I decided to stay put, partly
because I had intense curiosity
to see what would happen and
partly because I knew two
trusted friends who were
cherishing an old printing-press
which might conceivably do for
an underground paper.
With my much-advertised
small beard and heavy eye-
brows I was too much of a
marked man to disappear
easily. Even as it was, strangers
in the street and on the Under-
ground recognised me and
approached me with: “How’s
the war going, Mr. Low?”
As priority measure, cursing
Hitler and his whole brood, I
shaved the beard.
EVERY Londoner has his
snapshot memories of the
“blitz.”
My own were a mixture of
the trivial and the tragic. The
hellish sky-effects of the burn-
ing in the East End mixed up
with, say, the day early in the
piece when Madeline and I
were driving up Curzon-street
and bombs began dropping
close.
“Keep calm,” said the
official What-to-Do instructions
for citizens in such circum-
stances. “Park your car care-
fully out of the way, and pro-
ceed to the nearest shelter.”
This we did. The shelter
door was locked, with a
notice pinned on it: “Sleeping.
Do Not Disturb.”
There was the night my
heavy oak front-door flew in
with a frightful crash. This
was a family affair, it being the
blast of the bomb that blew up
the home of my mother and
aunt a street away. Fortunately
they were in my house, com-
plete with dog and canary, at
the time.
The recollection of my
tennis-court littered with
rubble and rubbish that had
been a home and familiar
neighbors is mixed with that
of two taxi-drivers pulled up
arguing the right-of-way at a
crossing in Bond-street, bombs
falling all around. Odd details
like travellers sitting in their
trains in the dark staring at
one another with cat’s eyes, the
statue of Charles the First
buried in sandbags in Trafalgar
Square, and a placard in a little
shop which had had its front
blown away: “More open than
ever” ; the old lady dug out
after a building collapsed on
her who, when asked “ ’Ow are
yer, Ma?” replied, “A bit
shook.”
25
THE physical conditions
for cartooning during
the blasting of London
were discouraging.
As winter drew on, light
became a major difficulty. The
supply of art - materials
shortened. I ran out of sable
brushes until It occurred to me
to make some quite good ones
for myself out of my own hair,
and then to draw with soft
ALL BEHIND YOU, WINSTON
wooden toothpicks, which gave
quite a good effect.
Communications intermit-
tently became uncertain. It was
a question whether («) my
studio or ( b) the editorial office
would be still standing next
morning.
One night early in the blitz
the “Evening Standard” office
was bombed. In the flurry of
moving over to an emergency
set-up close by without missing
an issue I was provoked to
chip-in a special cartoon with
the requisite note of British
phlegm, entitled “Bomb
Severely Damaged in Shoe
Lane.”
In that “incident” one of
my original drawings was
neatly pierced by a bomb frag-
ment. The subject was
peculiarly appropriate to the
circumstances. It represented
a British soldier with obstinate
jaw defiantly making the
thumbs-up sign to a grinning
Nazi figure of Death. I wrote
round the bomb-hole “Thanks
for the compliment—Low”
and gave the original to Ernie
Pyle, the American war-corres-
pondent.
TO forestall accidents, for a
time I worked several days
ahead. Special drawings for
some foreign papers frequently
had a time-lag of six weeks
between delivery and publica-
tion.
The anguish which infused
the great occasions imposed a
pregnant simplicity on their
interpretation. “A 11 Behind
You, Winston”; “Very Well,
Alone”; and “Harvest Moon,”
three of my widest-known
cartoons of the time, practi-
cally drew themselves at white-
heat.
On the level of plain illustra-
tion the everyday glimpses ol
the essential soundness of the
ordinary people provided good
material. This time, at least,
the crowd was sticking to-
gether, not stampeding, every
(Continued on page 64)


FeutJi hi the
Future
These are great years to be living; years that
will stand out in history for the cluster of their
brilliance in human achievement.
See what the brief span of our lifetime has
opened: .
The dramatic score in Science spreads far
beyond the capturing of nuclear power, gigantic
though that performance alone has been. The very
soil of Earth, for example, can now be improved
by mineral prescription. Better types of food crops,
new species of stock, are evolving from the work
of biologists in the breeding of plants and animals.
In mechanics the world is moving to that stage
of automation which will bring to modem
civilisation perhaps one of its most important and
interesting experiences—the adjusting of social
orders to the wise and profitable use of greater
leisure time.
Fewer than fifty-four years after powered
flight was proved more than a theory, aviation
moves in to rocket speeds; and men turn to the
launching of instrument-laden satellites into space.
The brains and devices of several nations are
to work, in the approaching International
Geophysical Year, on wresting from Antarctica
the secrets it has held since Time began.
We could go on enumerating the courageous
quests and conquests of our time.
And along with this, hundreds of millions of
people in less-forward lands are struggling to
improve their standards. They feel, and with
justice, that they should share in the better things
of Man’s widening existence.
Now, this is the point I see in it all:
Every new step towards the ultimate in human
achievement heightens the test of our Faith in
Australia. These years are prelude to a still more
remarkable Future, and we’ve got to go out to
meet it in an earnest and practical way—inspired
to the thought that here in a wonderfully favoured
time we are, under God, heirs to a continent.
ee-'cc^
7
in Yanga among the good
sheep hr doesn’t have to worry,
or whether he is too stunned
to care, is purely a matter for
conjecture. The important
thing is that Bronco signs-on to
shear 6000 sheep in a five-
stand Sihed, to shear them at
award-rates, and to start the
following day.
As with any contract, Bronco
is liable for damages and
compensation if he breaks it,
and, what is more, receives no
payment for any work done up
to the time of the contract-
breach. So he is really hemrqed
in, whereas Faggotter is safely
covered and is as well pleased
with himself as his unjoyous
nature will permit.
“Well, I’ll give you a go,”
Faggotter condescends to
Bronco. “Be ready at a
quarter-past-six in the morning.
I’ll pick you up and then you
can pull into gear with the
other chaps at half-past-seven.”
And so saying, he leaves
Bronco to his thoughts and hi?
beer and pushes through the
pub-doors, and Bronco,
comprehending nothing save
that he has got a pen in the
good country, returns to his
beer wholly undismayed.
enough, at quarter-
past-six, Faggotter drives
in and picks up a silent and
remorseful Bronco.
The town is quiet and the
streets empty at that hour of
the morning and it has a
depressing effect on the already-
subdued Bronco, but as they
get out of town a bit he begins
to pick-up. The sight of small
paddocks of young green crops,
of haystacks, of crossbreds
picking at the sweet grass, of
magpies nesting and flying
about the big pines, of home-
steads less than a mile apart,
of paddocks littered with farm-
machinery, all give Bronco the
impression that this is soft
country; and soft country
means soft sheep and easy
tallies. Right then and there
he begins to feel better, and
lights up a smoke.
Faggotter’s big new Chev
rides like a liner in harbor as
the old boy pushes it over the
smooth wide road, and a feel-
ing of contentment takes
possession of Bronco, but not
to the extent where he does any
unnecessary talking to Fag-
gotter. Because he doesn’t like
the look of him. The thought
of being one of five shearers
in 6000 sheep, of which more
than likely half would be
crossbred or comeback-breed,
helps him to feel just a little
complacent ; and he is working
out that he should get at least
1600 of them, even allowing
for the lost day, when the car
swings through a couple of
big white posts, over a ramp
and up to a pretty ordinary sort
of homestead.
Not stopping at the home-
stead, Faggotter takes Bronco
down to the corrugated-iron
huts which are the shearing-
quarters, and Bronco unloads
his gear and walks around
looking for an empty bed.
The huts are deserted, the
shearers already at the shed
at this hour, and the rouse-
abouts most probably still is
the mess-huts, but by the time
Bronco unrolls his swag on a
bare mattress, pulls on his
dungarees and strolls over to
the cookhouse, even the mess
is empty.
Being an old and experienced
shearer, he wastes no more
than five minutes on the cook
and his breakfast-chops before
picking up his waterbag and
tools and pushing on up to
the shed. The shed is much
the same as cocky-sheds any-
where ; board for shearing
down half one side, pens and
holding-space down half the
other, with the entire bottom
half of the shed taken up by
the wool-room and storing-
space for the completed bales.
At this time of the morning,
ten minutes before start, the
shearers are squatted in front
of the port-holes to the let-
out pens, washing their tools
and loading their handpieces,
while on the other side of the
board, backs against the catch-
ing-pens, sit the rouseabouts,
smoking and talking and moan-
ing the passage of time towards
the start of work.
TIRONCO surveys the scene
for a while and nods a
greeting here and there, before
he sights a figure that looks
familiar and, recognising an
old pen-mate, Nugget O'Brien,
steps up and taps him on the
shoulder.
“How’s things?” he asks.
Nugget turns, a bit savage,
because he doesn’t like being
thumped on the back when
he’s loading his shearing-gun,
but when he sights Bronco he
feels differently.
“Good-day, Bronco,” he
exclaims in surprise. “How
y’ been? Haven’t sighted you
for years, not since we shore
(Continued on page 62)


WILLIAM INGLIS & SON PTY. LTD.
Bloodstock Sales
will be held at, „
NEWMARKET STABLES, RANDWICK
as follows:
Annual Easter Sales 7957
THOROUGHBRED YEARLINGS
TUESDAY, 23rd APRIL WEDNESDAY,. 24th APRIL
FRIDAY, 26th APRIL MONDAY, 29th APRIL
commencing at 10 a.m. each day
Dispersal Sale of Sledmere Stud
On account of Mr. M. V. POINT
TUESDAY. 30th April, at 2 p-m.
The Catalogue includes particulars of:—
THE HIGHLY-BRED IMPORTED STALLIONS ROYAL
EMPIRE (Fr.), Brown Horse (1946) by Admiral Drake from
and ROYAL TROPHY (Fr.), Brown Horse (1942) by
Windsor Lad from Catastrophe.
42 HIGHLY-BRED BROOD MARES, comprising 26 MARES with
foals at foot by Royal Empire (Fr.) and 16 DRY MARES, all served
by Royal Empire (Fr.) and including 30 HIGH-CLASS IMPORTED
MARES who have produced many winners, including Sailor's
Guide and Auteuil (S.A.J.C. Derby, etc.).
Calvlofiues on application
Dispersal Sale of Kilkee Stud
On account of MESSRS. J. F. '& G. FLEMING
THURSDAY, 2nd MAY, at 1 p.m.
The Highly-bred IMPORTED STALLIONS, ROCK AND RYE,
Bay Plorse (1947) by Rockefella from Marie Galante; his oldest
progeny are now two-year-olds; and BERRYLANDS, Brn. or Blk.
Plorse (1946) by Bois Roussel from Snowberry.
44 HIGHLY-BRED BROOD MARES, comprising 22 MARES with
foals at foot and 22 DRY MARES and including BANRULLAH
(imp.) by Nasrullah and mares by Le Grand Due (Fr.), Double
Remove (imp.), Agincourt (imp.), Nice Day (imp.), Berrylands
(imp.), Brueghel (imp.), etc. Catalogues On Application.
Brood Mares
on account of Various Owners:
THURSDAY, 2nd MAY, 1957
Including DISPERSAL SALE on account of OAK RANGE STUD
PTY. LTD., comprising 10 HIGHLY-BREI) BROOD MARES (8
with foals at foot by Emperor (Fr.) (imp.), and served again;
and including Pantomime, dam of French liable and Royal P'able.
Stallions, Untried Stock and
Racehorses-in-T raining
FRIDAY, 3rd MAY, 1957.
WILLIAM INGLIS & SON PTY. LTD.
Bloodstock Salesmen,
28 O’Connell Street, Sydney. Phones: BL 2411, BL 2412.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
r T''WENTY - nine thousand
•*- trekked to Rosehill on
Saturday and witnessed what
weren’t much more than canters
for two of the finest pieces of
horseflesh ever to stretch their
legs on the track. In the first
running of the £lO,OOO Golden
Slipper Stakes for two-year
olds, the Star Kingdom colt
Todman romped in eight
lengths clear of his pursuers,
running the six in a sizzling
l.lly—ysec. outside the course-
record. Proving that tracks,
distances, opposition and
conditions mean little to him,
Redcraze cleared away with
the Rawson Stakes - he was
two-and-a-half lengths clear of
the brilliant Kingster at the
end of the nine furlongs. His
time, 1.50 3-10, was 1-10 sec.
better than Rogilla’s 23-year-
old course- and race-record.
Doncaster and Sydney Cup
horses will have their final
bursts in public before their
respective big runs in the Liver-
pool and Autumn Handicaps at
the A.J.C.’s Warwick Farm
meeting next Saturday. On the
same programme is the £l5OO
w.-f.-a. Chipping Norton
Stakes. At the time of writ-
ing Redcraze, Sailor’s Guide,
Ray Ribbon, Evening Peal and
New Zealand stayer Field
Chief are engaged in the race,
and promise to make it a
lively mile - and - a - quarter.
Three-year-old fillies will step
it out in the £1250 Sappho
Stakes.
Field Chief, one of the
fancied horses for the Sydney
Cup, will be an interesting
runner in the Chipping Norton.
A New Zealand stayer of note,
he is expected to show what
he can do against the best
w.-f.-a. horses and give a line
to his Sydney Cup chance. He
was one of the first picks for
the two-miler and has retained
his position in the market
despite the fact that he has yet
to race in Sydney. He is handi-
capped to top form, as on 8.9
he has the same weight as the
Melbourne Cup winner, Even-
ing Peal. He is also within
11b. of another Dominion
stayer with a sound record—
Llanisfair (8.10). Llanisfair ran
a particularly sound race when
third in the S.T.C. Cup to
Aqua Boy. He came from
the rear of the field and shaped
like a stayer in the run to the
post.
Last year’s Chipping Norton
Stakes proved a runaway
affair for New Zealander
Somerset Fair, ridden by A.
Ward. Starting at brief odds,
he defeated Roman Holiday--
a recent winner in Melbourne
—by 10 lengths, with Prince
Delville third. Ward, who
piloted Carbon Copy when he
won the event in 1950, looks
set for his third win in the
mile-and-a-quarter; he'll ride
Redcraze.
Last season the Liverpool
Handicap proved a sound
Doncaster Handicap guide:
New Zealander Slogan II won
both events. At the Farm he
started favorite and narrowly
defeated Premise and Lazy
Day. Beaupa, runner-up to
Half Hennesy in the Autumn
Handicap, also finished second
(to Sailor’s Guide) in the
Sydney Cup. Half Hennesy
wasn’t nominated for the Cup.
Fire Dust was successful in
both the Liverpool Handicap
and the Doncaster two years
ago, while Beaupa, winner of
the Autumn Handicap that
year, finished third in the
Sydney Cup to Talisman.
Rosehill running from the
Doncaster Handicap point of
view brought the favorite
Kingster into stronger request.
His brilliant second to Red-
craze in the Rawson Stakes
was most impressive ; it was
easily the best performance of
any Doncaster aspirant on the
day. Yes Please came from
the rear of the field in the Rail-
way Quality Handicap to finish
third to New Spec and Aboukir.
And Yes Please is one who’ll
do better at eight furlongs.
Despite an easy win in near-
record time for Welter com-
pany at Rosehill, Nearco Lad
is a Doncaster outsider.
Nearco Lad has won. a couple
of races at Randwick at a mile,
and is not badly handicapped
at 7.5 in the Doncaster. New
Zealander Decisive’s excellent
.effort in filling third berth to
Nearco Lad was a good
Doncaster trial. He carried
9.5—0 r 191 b. above the
limit; he wasn’t fancied much
in the betting ; and he was a
long way back at the home
turn. He finished fast in the
middle of the track, and he’s
one to watch. This time last
year Decisive ran third in the
Doncaster to Slogan II and
King’s Fair, then won the Final
Handicap at Randwick (lf-
mile) in near-record time. Last
Doncaster he carried 8.2 ; this
time he has another 51b. But
considering his run on Satur-
day was his first this trip, he’s
well in.
Todman’s runaway win in the
S.T.C. Golden SlippeF Stakes
—richest two-year-old con-
test ever staged in Australia —
brought his aggregate winnings
to £9748. So far unbeaten in
four starts, he looks certain
to win the A.J.C.’s £5OOO Sires’
Produce Stakes. His earnings
then boosted to £14,000, Tod-
man would join the select list of
two-year-olds with more than
£12,000 in stakes to their
credit. Mollison, who raced
about 30 years ago, holds the
record with £17,343. Others
are: True Course £13,394;
Pure Fire £13,185 ; Royal Feast
£13,119 and Ocean Bound
£12,152.
The grey Aqua Boy was a
surprise winner over hot
favorite Empire Link in the
£5OOO S.T.C. Cup at Rose-
hill on Saturday. Always rac-
ing like a winner, Aqua Boy
gave jockey J. O’Sullivan his
first success in this event, now
in its tenth season. Aqua
Boy’s time for the mile-and-
a-hilf 2.30 —-lopped three-
quarters of a second off
Columnist’s race-record. It was
also a course-record. In
December last Prince Delville
ran the distance in 2.30-]-. Aqua
Boy had shaped poorly in the
CronuUa Handicap, won by
Buthus at Randwick a week
before his Cup success.
William Inglis and Son, Ltd.,
will offer 178 lots on the
opening day of the Randwick
yearling sales (Tuesday, April
23). The auction will continue
on Wednesday (April 24) and
Friday (April 26), and conclude
on Monday (April 29). First
offerings will be from the New-
haven Park Pty., Boorowa,
with eight colts and fillies by


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME C’OIJIIT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Exercising Federal Matrimonial
Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 4497 of 1956.
TO RONALD PATRICK JENSEN late
of Sydney N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
GLORIA JENSEN has filed her Petition
for Divorce No. 4497 of 1956 under
Part 111 of the Commonwealth Matri-
monial Causes Act 1945-1955 and based
on the law of the State of Queensland
on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards and asks for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion in respect of her own
adultery If you intend to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 12th June 1957 and
obtain a copv of the Petition without
charge from MR. G. M. STAFFORD,
Solicitor, No. 79 Elizabeth Street, Syd-
ney.-—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
No. 1795 of 1956
TO EDMUND CAMPION late of Liver-
pool Road Enfield. —TAKE NOTICE
that DULCIE CATHERINE CAMPION
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1795 of 1956 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 14th day of
June 1957 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from PATRICK
A. BOLSTER, Solicitor, of 1 Carlton
Street, Granville, bv his City Agent,
KEVIN E. BRADY, Solicitor, 99 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Chateau Roussel (imp.).
Woodlands Stud, Denman, is
next with a draft of Charleval
(Fr.) youngsters. Kia-Ora,
Scone, has several Brimstones
and Channel Swells to offer
in the early session. • Well-
related yearlings in early lots
include a sister to Starover, a
sister to Royal Star, a half-
brother to Sunny Hour, a half-
brother to Alister, a brother
to Goldenway, a half-brother
to Evening Peal, and a brother
to Arab’s Choice.
Easily the most impressive
performance at Caulfield last
Saturday was Beaupa’s win in
the two-mile St. Kilda Handi-
cap. Carrying top weight of
9.1, he was always nicely
placed, and when he hit the
front on the turn he seemed
set for an easy victory.
Challenged and headed by
llloura, to whom he was con-
ceding 191 b., Beaupa displayed
stamina and courage to fight
back for a narrow but
convincing win. His time,
3.24 1-10, broke the Caulfield
record formerly held by Oxley,
who, incidentally, showed his
best recent form to finish third,
two lengths behind llloura.
Considering that he carried
8.5 when beaten a head by
Sailor’s Guide in last year’s
Sydney Cup, Beaupa is well
weighted with 8.8 in this
year’s event —especially as. he
has since won the Queen
Elizabeth Stakes at Randwick,
and was unlucky to lose this
year’s Australian Cup.
The Kooyong Handicap was
rated a Doncaster trial for
Farquhar. The five-year-old
Brueghel horse earned the trip
by winning the Kooyong (an
event that he also won last
year). Although he may have
been lucky to defeat second
placegetter, Parvo, who lost
several lengths at the start,
Farquhar put up a good per-
formance under his 9.10. He
will appreciate the drop to 9.0
in the Doncaster, and should
run well.
Biggest horse to race at Caul-
field last Saturday was three-
year-old Daley, who measures
a full 17 hands. When a horse
as big as that shows ability,
he’s likely to be right out of
the box. The manner in which
Daley came around the out-
side of the field in the Chair-
man’s Stakes, to win running
away in the smart time of
1.1 H, was most impressive.
Though the Pamphilcs gelding
had won a few small races
around the country, Saturday’s
was his first metropolitan
success.
* * *
With consecutive wins—and
track-records —in Adelaide and
Melbourne behind him, and
wins and a track-record in
Perth in his wake, Caduceus
stepped out at Harold Park on
Friday night to tackle the best
of them in the main event on
the first night of the N.S.W.
Trotting Club’s three-night
Easter Carnival the Flying
Mile. Everyone respected him,
but few seriously thought that
he could concede 24yds. to a
field of that calibre over a mile.
Yet the little Enzedder did it—
with a combination of his
amazing burst of speed and the
heady reinsmanship of Sydney
driver Jack Watts. He ran the
mile in 2.5 1-10 ; a particularly
fine effort. Of the beaten
brigade, Inter - Dominion
winner Radiant Venture shaped
most promisingly ; and the
runs of Anytime and Scimitar
were good.
'+ +
The TV-camera was focused
on two of Sydney’s first-round
Rugby Union matches on
Saturday. In the match at
Chatswood Oval last year's
premiers, Gordon, proved too
smooth a combination for
Manly, 28-3 ; and at Woollahra
Oval, Rand wick, in a rough
game, ran-out winners against
Eastern Suburbs, 16-6. In
other games Eastwood drew
with St. George, 15-all ; Parra-
matta finished on the right side
of their argument with Uni-
versity, 15-12 ; and Drum-
moyne scraped home against
Northern Suburbs, 11-9.
* * *
St. George and Balmain,
which had met in Sydney
Rugby League’s grand-final last
year (St. George winning 18-
12), met in this year’s opening-
round match-of-the-day on
Sydney Cricket Ground on
Saturday. The Saints, the better
side, led 12-2 at half-time, and
won by what was almost the
grand-final scores, 19-13. Both
teams tried to play open foot-
ball, but there was a lot of
early-season raggedness. Each
scored three tries, but Bal-
main’s three were all oppor-
tunist efforts. Of the rival star
fullback-goaikickers, Fleming
(St. George) on the day had the
straignter boot. In other games-
Wests walloped the redoubtable
South Sydney 49-9, but the
Rabbit-ohs were two and three
men short for most of the
game ; Manly-Warringah some-
what unexpectedly tossed New-
town 13-2 ; Canterbury, down
0-10 at half-time, beat North
13-10; and East beat Parra-
matta 10-5.
* * *
Tipped to be a race in which
anything up to six crews would
go over the line in a bunch,
the 1957 Sydney Head-of-the-
River, rowed on the Nepean at
Penrith, turned out to be, over
the last section anyway, a race
with only two in it —High and
Grammar—though, in fact, all
eight crews did finish reason-
ably close together. After
several “incidents” in the race
(a false start, various crews
clashing blades, and confusion
among the High crew near the
finish when a cracker was
exploded) High just got there
from the lighter Grammar, in
the good time of Bmin. lOf sec. ;
High had last won in 1954.
High’s coach, Alan Callaway,
who in earlier years had had
the two senior fours in his
charge, had control of the
eights for the first time.
Brisbane’s Head-of-the-River,
rowed on the Milton Reach
of the Brisbane River, went to
Brisbane Boys, from Southport
and Gregory Terrace.
DUNLEAVY'S GYM
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
o Continued )
IN his ring days Jack Dun-
leavy’s hands continued to
trouble him, and he began
his career as a trainer at Dar-
linghurst, after challenging
Godfrey. I came across the
challenge among the yellowed
cuttings.
In 1920 one of his pupils,
Mike Flynn, won the Hippo-
drome tournament, and later
the bantam championship of
New Zealand.
In 1921 Colin Bell was train-
ing at Dunleavy’s, and won the
heavyweight championship.
Also at Dunleavy’s, same
year, Jimmy Hill, Jacky Green,
Harry Holmes, Jim Hoffman ;
Dencio and Jamito, from the
Philippines ; Tommy O’Brion,
Louie Gencia, Ernie Gooze-
man, Stanley Mcßride, Billy
McCann, Frank Munro (all
U.S.A.); Les Waters, Jack
Dillon, Les Pearson (well
known as a referee in later
years), Teddy Green, the fly-
weight champion, and Jim
Roland Dwyer, who relieved
Bell of the heavyweight title
the following year.
In 1922 he had George
Mendies, the flyweight cham-
pion ; Eddie Butcher, welter
champion ; Albert Lloyd, a
former heavyweight champion;
Jimmy Kelly, bantam cham-
pion ; and Earl France
(U.S.A.), Davy Morgan
(Wales) and Ernie Symons
(Eng.).
And so on. Tommy Fairhall,
the welter champ., Billy
Grime the triple champ., in
1923. Billy McAllister, the
bantam champion, and Merv.
Todd, the State lightweight
champion, the next year. In
1926, besides such American
importations as Sunny Jim
Williams, Frisco McGale,
Buddy Saunders, Eddie Smith
and Joe Hall, Voiaire, from
France, two boxers from
Noumea, another from
Canada, a Westralian called
Joe Moore, Pat Appleton,
middleweight champion of
Tasmania, and Tommy
Barber, the featherweight
champion. Hughie Dwyer, the
triple champion, a little later.
Back in 1926 the colored
Americ a n , Sunny Jim
Williams (reputed to have
been just a fair fighter when
he came to Australia), trained
and seconded by DunleaVy,
beat Len Johnson, the Empire
middleweight champion, and
in eight months stopped the
Australian welter, middle and
heavy champions. The next
year Billy McAllister, trained
and seconded by Dunleavy,
won the bantam champion-
ship, which he held for five
years. And Gordon Kiely,
likewise, won the middle-
weight championship.
In 1928 Tommy Fairhall
beat Ernie Izzaro, the Empire
champion, and Baly
McAllister beat Kid Socks, the
Empire champion in hi s
division. That year a young


fellow from up on
the Murrumbidgee Irrigation
Area, Jack Haines, won his
first four-rounder. Next year,
and 17 fights later, he won the
middleweight championship
of Australia.
In any conversation with
Dunleavy, Haines is sure to
crop up. He seemed to have
everything—perfect balance,
speed, a punch. He was also
Jack’s pupil—a shade of
difference between this and
training and seconding, how-
ever important these may be.
In Dunleavy’s opinion he was
the best boxer he ever handled
—“the best since Darcy.”
Look up the contemporary
press-notices and you’ll find
that everyone was saying that,
before the Palmer fights.
Darcy . . . We had moved
into the gymnasium proper,
and Jack pointed to two
pictures of Darcy. No, there
were no comparisons with
Darcy. Darcy was a freak.
“Just look at those arms.”
We regarded the enormous
reach. “Another thing about
Darcy he was so strong.
And he kept coming in all
the time, had his man always
off-balance.”
Earlier in our talk some-
one had mentioned Jem Mace,
and Jack’s eyes had flashed
with interest. Yes, he belonged
to the Mace school; modified.
Nothing stops still. Boxing
had a long history, and many
men added a bit here, a bit
there. Still . .. Fundamentally,
what Mace had taught was
sound, and some of the
departures from his teachings
weren’t improvements * at all.
A wonderful boxer, a wonder-
ful teacher. Mace, Foley . . .
Now, pointing at a photo-
graph of the Burns-Johnson
fight, he said: “See the way
he holds his hands. Low. Like
Foley. Like Mace. No waste
of energy. Watching Burns’s
eyes.”
Yes, he’d seen the Burns-
Johnson fight. He’d been
about 19 at the time. What
did he think of Johnson? “A
master.” Johnson had
developed defence to an
effective form of offence. He
could make a man lead, then,
with perfect timing, brush
away the blow hard enough to
numb an arm.
Jack used the same tactics
himself. When Haines fought
Monson for the middleweight
title, Dunleavy made him
pound away at the bicep of
Monson’s arm for round after
round, until he broke
Monson’s smother.
Lusby mentioned Ambrose
Palmer —how, at crises of his
ring career, he had trouble
with his eye. Dunleavy
grinned: “I did that.”
We stared. Coming from
the mild, modest little man,
who had waved away “My
little fights” it was startling.
He went on in his soft
voice: “You know how Palmer
•shaped-up—like this.”
He demonstrated. Left
shoulder hunched forward,
chin tucked in, open hand held
stiffly, ’at an angle, across the
face and away from it; a
narrow target, what looked
like an impenetrable guard.
“I told Haines to keep
at his head. He got sick of it.
Haines said to me, ‘But he
keeps blocking them.’ ‘Never
mind,’ I told him, ‘do what I
say.’ So Haines kept on, and
you can see what was happen-
ing?”
JACK HAINES
Jack struck the palm of his
right hand with his left fist,
and the stiffened back of the
hand bounced against his head.
He did it again.
“See? The weight of a
punch behind it, against his
own glove. He was really
knocking himself about. But
Palmer was smart. He changed
over after that.”
The low, relaxed defence
was best. Like Johnson’s ; like
Mace. Your hands came up to
parry a blow, met it, deflected
it. Caught it like a cricket-ball
so to speak. An active, not a
passive, defence. Degree of
expertness, of course, depend-
ing on reflexes, rhythm,
practice, confidence. Obviously,
knowing what to do wasn’t
good enough.
“I’ll show you. Here—Bill
. . .”«he called to a lad punch-
ing the heavy bag, who came
instantly.
We walked over to the
famous diagram. “Throw
straight-lefts at me, Bill.
That’s right—now, faster,
faster.” The classic Lesson
One. The exchange of straight-
lefts, the right hand moving
up, and out, blocking; the
rhythm.
I had seen it all before, years
ago, had been shown by the
old master on, probably, the
same spot. Although, as I
remembered it, the diagram
had been on the other side of
the room. But it was pretty to
watch. And what Jack had told
me at the time had been per-
fectly true —you don’t forget.
The fundamentals, properly
taught, are never forgotten.
Although, of course, knowing
is a street away from perform-
ing ; and there are degrees of
skill.
“See?” Jack had stopped;
was smiling. No trace, now of
the man who had met too
many newspapermen. He was
teaching, lost in his job.
“Now the diagram . . .” An
arrangement of footmarks
painted on the floor, it is
designed to show where a
boxer’s feet should be deliver-
ing the basic punches, advanc-
ing, retreating. It is Dun-
leavy’s copyright—the patent,
or whatever it is, describing it
as a “literary work,” hangs
framed on the wall —but the
theory behind it is plain
enough: to teach balance, and
to so drill into a pupil the
correct movements of the feet
that, under stress, he does the
right thing automatically.
Apart from anything else,
the diagram has this great
advantage: in the vital early
stages a learner can glance
down and check his errors.
Think how useful it would be
to be able to do this, at the
same stage, in tennis or golf:
not nearly right—dead-right!
Perfect footwork, of course,
is an ideal. For every cham-
pion who has passed through
Dunleavy’s hands there have
been hundreds who didn’t
make the grade. Many more
who only wanted to learn the
rudiments of boxing. But
the Dunleavy-boxers who
reached the top rank were
notable for their footwork.
And I don’t think anyone who
had practised on Jack’s dia-
gram, no matter how poor a
boxer, could ever commit the
solecism of drawing one foot
back to the other when retreat-
ing: thereby making a present
of his balance to his opponent.
Good natural fighters do it,
repeatedly.
The diagram fascinated me
when I first saw it, and I was
struck then, as I was the other
day, by the fact that the
distance between the feet —
uniform, since, if the left foot
slides up in attack, the right
foot trails along too, keeping
its distance —is a shade narrow.
For a very long time, in
Ring history, evasive foot-
work was considered cowardly.
The fighters stood toe-to-toe
and slugged it out, with an
occasional cross-buttock throw
to break the tedium. As late
as Sullivan’s day the tradition
' persisted.
Thus, we have the great
John L. roaring like a bull
because Charlie Mitchell, that
“bombastic sprinter,” wouldn’t
stand and take his medicine
according to the old prescrip-
tion!
Oddly enough, Mitchell’s
tactics were possible only
under the old rules; in the
smaller space of a Queens-
berry square, with less chance
of Mitchell spelling (and
annoying John) by going down
whenever he felt inclined,
Sullivan probably would have
kept his enthusiastic promise
and “murdered him:”
The instinct to keep the feet
wide is sound, in so far as a
fighter is then widely based,
and so harder to topple over ;
and there is less temptation to
bring the feet together, and so.
lose balance.
In my opinion—I wish to
make it plain that it is purely
my opinion ; I could be talking
through my hat —the Dunleavy
system seems to have the boxer
perpetually, but very slightly,
off balance ; and yet this, by
an interesting paradox, leads
to effective balance (like the
pendulum of a clock), and
speed.
The fighter never seriously
loses balance, because of the
drilling he has had in attack
and retreat. Hind-leg first,
back, front-leg first, forward.
But everything is speeded-
up, because it has the
momentum of the weight of
the body behind it —just as a
sprinter shoots away like a
bullet from a crouCh-start,
to compensate for the initial
loss of balance. It is almost
as though he could also do the
same thing in reverse.
Given a polished performer,
the difference in speed between
this and the wide-legged stance
is very like that between a
modern sprinter hurtling from
his crouch and an old-timer
taking-off from a standing
start.
Most trainers I have met
have told their pupils to stand
“comfortably.” Then, maybe,
they adjust the position of the
feet - to liking. But this
is in the early stages —there
is not the strict follow-through
imposed by the diagram . . .
(To be continued )


Women’s Letter
MELBOURNE
The Governor and Lady Brooks enter-
tained 300 guests at an informal party at
Government House to say au revoir
before they leave on the 24th of this
month in the Iberia for a six-
months holiday in England with
their son-in-law and daughter (Com-
mander Robin Byrne, R.N., and his wife)
and their two grandchildren, Christopher
and Jennifer. The State drawing-room
carried lovely flower-arrangements. In
the wide hall leading to it autumn foliage
was banked up in the corners and illumi-
nated at the back, and on the refreshment-
tables were bowls of pale-yellow roses and
yellow-centred daisies.
Lady Brooks wore a charming full-
skirted gown of apricot-pink satin, the
bodice heavily encrusted with white and
gold rhinestones. With it was worn a
tall, spiky, diamond tiara. Mrs. Henry
Bolte, wife of the Premier, chose chiffon
in hibiscus-red tonings, the strapless
bodice having a trail of matching roses
down one side. Mrs. Arthur Rylah, wife
of the Chief Secretary, wore a blue-and-
white floral chiffon gown which had
swathes of royal-blue satin caught in a
large bow across the back of the skirt.
With Chief Justice Sir Edmund Herring
(who will deputise for Sir Dallas Brooks
during his absence) was Lady Herring.
A lovely gown of creamy French-lace and
powder-blue satin was worn by Mrs.
Leonard Darling. Lady Jungwirth’s
classically-draped gown was of orchid-
pink chiffon, Lady Tait’s organza gown
was patterned in blue, beige and white
flowers.
Mrs. Hugh Syme wore a short bouffant
frock m royal-blue silk faille. Mrs.
Stanley Korman’s slim gown was of
white chiffon and lace. Lady Snow allied
a full skirt of cream tulle and a strapless
bodice of cream guipure-lace, Mrs. Ken
Luke’s grey tulle gown had appliques of
grey guipure-lace on the bodice.
☆ ☆ ☆
There were 400 guests at the Savoy
Plaza for the showing of autumn and
winter hair-styles by the Haute Coiffure
of Australia, proceeds being for the Vic-
torian Society for Crippled Children.
Mrs. J. G. Norris, vice-president of the
society, and committee-member Mrs.
J. M. Ferguson, welcomed Madame le
Bas de Plumetot, wife of the French
Consul, who saw the new French coif-
fure “Pirouette” launched. Later the
guests saw charming mannequins parade
in a collection of furs and jewellery.
Among those who attended were Lady
Coates, Madame Andree McDonald, Mrs.
W. Lempriere, Mrs. C. Wieckhardt, Mrs.
F. W. Lawrence, Mrs. George McKay,
and Diane Stuart-Codde and her sister
Naomi, who are nieces of Sir Eric
Harrison.
The amazing Princess Gourielli
(Madame Helena Rubinstein) renewed
friendships with those she knew years
ago (when she first made her pots of
cream in a Collins-street building, since
demolished) when she was entertained by
the Lady Mayoress at an afternoon-tea
party at the Town Hall. The hostess
wore a jacket-suit of sage-green, white-
spotted silk and a paler-green toque
swathed with chiffon and finished in
front with white roses. The Princess wore
a Christian Dior jacket-suit of oatmeal-
tweed flecked in colors to match her
jewels, and a small wild-rice felt pudding-
basin hat, a model from Balanciaga. Her
jewels included a four-strand pearl neck-
lace, a chain of pearls, sapphires and
emeralds around her wrist to match the
brooch in her lapel.
Mrs. Geoffrey Tolson assisted her
mother entertain the guests, who in-
cluded Lady Richardson, Lady Warner,
her sister Mrs. Roy Chambers (who is
with the Rubinstein organisation in
London), Madame le Bas de Plumetot
(wife of the French Consul), Mrs. Earl
Daum, Mrs. L. J. Dooling, Mrs. Walter
Killough, Mrs. David Doughton and her
daughter Joan, Lady Tait, Mrs. Norman
Robinson and Mrs. Royden Honeyman.
Wife of a businessman who is also a
city-councillor, Mrs. Leo Curtis, of
Toorak, was for some years president of
the Your Opportunity committee, which
successfully stages each year the Black-
and-White Dinner-dance and a clothing-
fair. Despite the task of looking after
five children, she still manages to devote
part of her time to this work. Mrs.
Curtis was also president of the commit-
tee which organised the Moomba Ball;
she is a member of the Board of Manage-
ment of the Royal Women’s Hospital.
The short evening-frock was well in the
picture at the opening night of “Hippo
Dancing” at the Princess. Mrs. Garnet
Carroll set off her black frock with a
haze-blue mink stole. Mrs. James
McGauran’s lovely full-skirted frock was
of black velvet, worn with sapphire-blue
mink. Black taffeta was the choice of
Mrs. Norman Lynch. Mrs. A. T.
Smithers chose a short gunmetal organza
frock, made with a deep hemline of
pleated organza, and with guipure-lace
in the same soft shade trimming the
bodice. Mrs. Norman Watt wore an
ermine jacket over her short jet-trimmed
black French-crepe frock.
One of the novel decorations in the
red-and-white-striped marquee where 150
guests danced at the coming-out of Penny
Lane and Susan Paul was a chandelier,
made of feather-dusters in shocking-pink,
emerald, royal-blue, red and aquamarine.
The handles, painted white, branched
out of white cornucopias at the top of the
central pole, which was draped in red-
and-white material and down which
trailed gilded ivy-leaves. Both Penny and
Susan wore full-length white gowns,
Penny’s of satin finished with a pink sash
and pink rose under the bust-line, Susan’s
of paper-shantung with a pale-blue sash.
Guests included Penny’s younger sister
Barbara and Susan’s brother Brian and
his wife, Jane Pilgrim (Adelaide),
Bronwen Cornell, Wendy Pisterman,
Sally Rial, Carolyn Wilkinson and Julie
McLaren.
SYDNEY
“What to Do When an Atom Bomb
Falls,” a pamphlet issued this week by
the N.S.W. Civil Defence Organisation,
put this Letter in such a state of con-
cern that it scarcely seemed worth while
writing about the white velvet hat shaped
like a chefs that someone wore to
Romano’s, or about the happy time the
teenagers had when High School won
the Regatta on Saturday.
It seems that, when a bomb falls, you
are safest in a whitewashed concrete house
with white shutters (“Make them now”),
no curtains (They can catch fire), no
rubbish in the yard (“Clean up the yard
NOW”), plenty of tinned-food, water-
containers and a battery-radio. “A narrow
trench, sides supported and with a sup-
ported covering of three feet of packed
earth, gives good protection,” says the
pamphlet.
It is all very disturbing. But in the
meantime life with its many facets
sparkles on, and the best one can do is
to report the reflections. Sydney wel-
comed the new resident-conductor of its
Symphony Orchestra, Mr. Nicolai Malko,
during the week. Both Mr. and Mrs.
Malko, it is pleasant to note, are smiling
and vital types with wide interests and
plenty of opinions. They were scheduled
to be guests at a reception by the
Orchestral Committee, so more about
them next week.


Another interesting arrival was that
of Anona Winn, the talented radio- and
T.V.-actress, who left Australia 23 years
ago to make her name in England and
did so. She is back now for a four-week
visit, partly a sentimental journey, partly
as a guest-artist for the A.B.C. Many
people will remember how that striking
entertainer Lee White (“Never let the
same bee sting you twice” was one of her
successes) took the young Neutral Bay
girl from Redlands School under her wing
and predicted a bright future for her.
Lee White has gone now, but Anona
Winn has certainly fulfilled that promise.
☆ ☆ ☆
Highlights of the hat-parade at Prince’s
in aid of the Mater Hospital on Wednes-
day included the first glimpse of those
new season’s “toppers,” stove-pipes, etc.,
really in action. About 50 per cent, of
the women present wore them and looked
quite happy about it. Guest-of-honor
Julia Darvas, from the Tivoli, sported a
hat like a circular cellophane-box filled
with real cattleya orchids, and a bag to
match. Committee-president Mrs. Tom
Bateman showed a nice talent for inter-
viewing at the microphone. Mannequin
Phoebe Macarthur Onslow tip-toed
through tables with a downward, doelike
look (the modem style of modelling?) in
contrast to the queenly deportment of
Mrs. Eric Giblin (formerly model Maide
Hann), Mrs. Ronald Eaton, Mrs. Rae
Scott and Mrs. Barbara Perry.
At this party Melbourne visitor Mrs.
Harry Deveridge showed the new wider,
fluffier type of hair-do that is part of the
My-Fair-Lady look. With this look goes
a draped Empire-line dress with a rose
at the high waistline. It is altogether
charming. One cannot help thinking how
beautiful the Queen would look in this
style and wishing that she would sponsor
it.
☆ ☆ ☆
A Newcastle branch has been added
to the Women’s Auxiliary in Australia
in aid of Dr. Barnardo’s Homes, and at
the second annual meeting this week the
Newcastle president, Mrs. J. Clack, pre-
sented to Sir John McLaren a cheque for
200 guineas, representing only four
months’ work. In addition, the New-
castle Younger Set presented 100 guineas
by the hands of its president, lan Thorpe,
while the Sydney Younger Set, represented
by Carole Cleary and Sue Slade, pre-
sented £175. Auxiliary-president Mrs.
Rupert Scammell presented a cheque for
£lOOO, which is in addition to the £3500
already raised during the year.
☆ ☆ ☆
Heard on the bus: ‘The mosquitoes
are still around, one nearly drove me
frantic last night. Don’t they know it’s
April? Wouldn’t you think they’d fly
south or whatever it is they do! ”
☆ ☆ *
The Royal Art Society’s Autumn
Exhibition was opened at Anthony
Hordern’s Gallery by Miss Thelma
Attwood, who is Sydney’s only woman
auctioneer. Of course, she did not
auction the pictures, but it did seem a
good opportunity missed. At the preview-
party on the previous evening Mrs. Mar-
garet Fountain and her daughter Adrienne
had marked-down a little painting of a
corner of Paris as “just the thing for the
hall,” but after circling the exhibition
found that it had a little red dot on it.
Dr. and Mrs. Frank Louat, recently re-
turned from abroad, had been stricken
with nostalgia at the sight of it and made
it theirs. Now, had Miss Attwood been
there to auction it . . .
Mrs. Leslie Bury is the wife of the
member for Wentworth. Before coming
to Sydney Mr. and Mrs. Bury lived with
their family in Washington ( D.C.), where
Mr. Bury was Executive Director
of the International Bank and the
International Monetary Fund. Though
they were 5½ years in America, their four
young sons, Peter, Michael, John and
Nicholas, were all born in Australia.
Photo by Norton Trevaire.
The first of the farewell-parties to the
Governor, Sir John Northcott (who re-
tires from office on July 31) was held at
the Royal Empire Society on Thursday.
Sir John, when he said that he was to
become a private resident of Sydney,
“Not very far away in the bush” (Wah-
roonga, i.e.), added that he would have
to join the R.E.S., of which he was now
patron, so that he could visit it again
and again, as he had in the past “ten,
nearly eleven, wonderful years.”
V # tf-
Have you a sheep you can spare for
the Smith Family and all the good work
that it does? The Town and Country
Ball Committee is making a special
appeal to its many country friends this
year. You don’t have to send the actual
sheep, just the price of it (which may be
deducted from your tax). The Town and
Country Ball —make a note —is to be
held at Prince’s on April 16. Donations
can be sent to the president, Mrs. Clinton
Ayers, 6 Clifton-street, Clifton Gardens.
Mrs. Georgie Freeman gave the Garden
Club a demonstration of dried flower-
arrangements on Thursday last, using
such things as buckram, Philippine-
bamboo, red cockscomb with shivery-
grass and peacock’s-feathers, honesty,
poinciana seed-pods split, a weed that had
been kept in the cellar for six months
and was then nicely dead, a dried ginger-
plant and some camphor-laurel-leaves
that had been put away in a paper-bag
(not to mention the driftwood). It was
really most interesting, as Mrs. Freeman
has a light-hearted way of lecturing and
plenty of ideas.
By the time this appears Barbara Toy
will be travelling across Australia en
route from Perth to her home-town
Sydney. Barbara is the writer and
theatrical-producer who has driven
single-handed by Land-Rover from
Tangier to Baghdad, and through the
Sahara Desert. She has travelled and
lived in Saudi Arabia, so should find the
Nullarbor Plain kindergarten-stuff. More
about Barbara when she arrives, for she
has to see Adelaide and Melbourne first.
* ☆ *
Interesting social events for charity
coming up shortly include an Interna-
tional Picnic Fair at the Trocadero on
Monday, April 15, from 7 p.m. to 11
p.m. Guests bring their own picnic-
basket suppers, though food can be pur-
chased from International Food Stalls,
and there will be a Hot Roast Beef Sand-
wich Bar, which will probably be the first
of its kind the Troc. has yet seen. There
will be dancing, floor-shows and games.
Proceeds to the International Ball.
CANBERRA
The late-afternoon opening of an
exhibition of paintings arranged by the
Macquarie Galleries at No. 8, Riverside,
Canberra, attracted a distinguished group
of patrons. The 30-odd paintings in-
cluded work by Sali Herman, Donald
Friend, Paul Haefliger, Arthur Murch,
Roland Wakelin, Lloyd Rees and J.
Carington Smith.
President of the Canberra Art Club,
John Scollay, introduced the British
Council liaison-officer Ernest Burbridge,
who opened the exhibition. The French
Ambassador, M. Renaud Sivan, was
among those present. Also noted Signora
Daneo, wife of the Italian Minister, with
Signora Benuzzi, the latter delighted with
her purchase of a Russell Drysdale water-
color sketch ; Mr. Merrill Blevins, of the
U.S. Embassy, and his attractive wife ;
the Acting High Commissioner for
Canada, Mr. D. M. Cornett, who takes a
keen interest in Australian landscape
paintings ; Lord and Lady Lindsay, and
the Brazilian Minister, Senhor L. A.
Borges da Fonseca and his wife.
This was the first exhibition arranged
in Canberra by the Macquarie Galleries,
and, judging by the interest it has
aroused, it shouldn’t be the last.


Larges! Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
Finn
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. — In Divorce.
TO JOHN WILFRED BROWN (also
known as BRAWN) late of Svdney.—
TAKE NOTICE that EILEEN
CATHERINE BROWN has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2014 of 1056 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 7th June 1957 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from A. J. REYNOLDS k PILLING,
Solicitors, of 34 Hunter Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friends
O’CONNOR, John Carmichael (some-
times known as HUGH O’CONNOR),
formerly of Tangambalanga, hop picker,
last heard of in the Kiewa district in
1937. Any person knowing the where-
abouts of the above is requested ta com-
municate with THE TRUSTEES
EXECUTORS & AGENCY CO. LTD.,
401 Collins Street, Melbourne..
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Carpenters and
Joiners’ Assistant, by James New-
land. —6493.
To buy copy of Run o’ Waters,
by John Fairfax. —6490.
To buy or exchange Australian
Music Book No. 31. —6491.
To buy copy of Stephens’ Com-
mentaries on the Laws of England
(19th edition ; 1928). —6492.
1 Information Sought
How to tan skins by the sulphuric-
acid-and-bran process ?
(The following appeared in
answer to a similar question last
year.) Pour five quarts boiling water
over two quarts bran, let stand a
quarter-hour, then strain. Make
about an equal quantity of salt-
water by putting into blood-warm
water as much salt-water as will
dissolve in it. Mix the bran-water
with the salt-water, and when the
mixture is lukewarm, but not
warmer, add to every gallon loz.
of sulphuric acid. Then immerse
the sains, stirring them about
occasionally, until tanned (about
20min.). Rinse in clean water; hang
in a shady place to dry. If skins
are very dry before beginning the
tanning, soak them in cold water
until soft.
* * * *
How to catch a swarm of bees ?
(From the Department of Agri-
culture.) The method of capturing
a swarm of bees will depend on the
position of the swarm to be hived.
Where the swarm has settled on a
light limb, the most satisfactory
method would be to place a pre-
pared hive below the swarm and
gently cut through the small limb
with a pair of secateurs, holding the
portion of the limb with the bees
attached. The complete swarm
may then be transferred into the
hive. Where a swarm has settled on
a substantial limb which cannot be
removed easily or is attached to the
base of the tree, a fence or a post,
it would be necessary to place the
prepared hive near to the swarm.
Under some circumstances it would
be best to scrape as many of tHe
bees as possible into a bucket or
cardboard container and then
transfer them to the hive; other
times the hive could be placed
directly under the swarm and the
swarm scraped into the hive with
a straw-broom or a light paling.
Where the bees have settled on a
limb which is quite springy but can-
not be easily cut through, they may
be captuied by placing the hive
immediately below the swarm and
working a bucket around it. The
limb is then given a sudden jar
to dislodge the bees into the bucket,
which is then emptied of its contents
into the hive. The swarm should be
gently “smoked” with the aid of a
bee-“smoker” wherever possible
throughout the operation. A comb
of young, unsealed brood placed
in the prepared hive encourages the
bees to stay and enables the colony
to' raise a new queen should the
old queen be killed.
* * * *
(1) Is it true that canoeing events
were introduced only at the Mel-
bourne Olympic Games ? (2) Some
general information on canoeing at
the Games ? (3) Did Australia win
a medal for canoeing at the 1956
Games ?
(1) No. Olympic canoeing events
were first held at the 1936 Berlin
Games. Australia, however, was
represented in the canoeing for the
first time in Melbourne. (The
canoeing at the 1956 Games was
held on Lake Wendouree, near
Ballarat —as was the rowing.) (2)
“Canoeing” consists of kayaking
and Canadian canoeing, singles and
pairs events, raced over 1000-
metres and 10,000-metres (500-metres
for women). Kayaking began in
Scandinavia, and Canada, of course,
developed the brand named after it,
though both forms have since spread
to many other countries Canada,
which for a couple of Games
dominated the Canadian events, did
not win a gold-medal in them at
either the 1952 or 1956 Games. (3)
Australia, represented by two
Maroubra (N.S.W.) lifesavers, D.
Green and W. Brown, won one
bronze-medal, for third-place in the
10,000-metres kayak-pairs.
* * * *
In Stan McCabe’s 187 not-out
made in Sydney in the first 1932-33
(“bodyline”) Test, how many of his
runs did he hit off Larwood?
Possibly unanswerable. Runs hit
off a particular bowler by a
particular batsman are not as a
rule entered in the score-book, and
it would be only by chance if such
details of any innings were kept,
Neither the 1934 Wisden nor any
cricket-book consulted dealing with
McCabe’s epic innings gives such
figures. Alan Barnes, secretary of
N.S.W. Cricket Association, to
whom the question was then
referred, has no official record of
them; nor has McCabe himself, who
was in turn questioned on the
matter by Barnes. Barnes states that
Bill Ferguson, who was a Test
scorer for many years, and who was
one of the scorers in that Test, may
perhaps have it on record, though
unlikely; “Fergie,” says Barnes,
“later on anyway, did keep a chart
showing the scoring-strokes to the
various parts of the field of each
batsman, and I think he indicated
on each stroke whom it was scored
off.” When McCabe went in to bat
that day, Australia was 3-82, and
Larwood had 3-15. With Australia
all out for 360, Larwood finished
with 5-96; and it would be fairly
safe to assume that close to 75 per
cent, of those further 81 were scored
by McCabe. His punishment of
Larwood was such that Jardine took
him off when Australia had but one
wicket to fall.
* * * *
Information on the ruins of the
jail at Trial Bay, near Kempsey
(TV A. W.)?
This answer, in reply to the same
question sent in last year, appeared
on the Service page (B. 18/7/’56):
A prison on the site was first sug-
gested in 1874 by Harold Maclean,
the N.S.W. Comptroller-General of
Prisons; construction began in
1876, and the building was com-
pleted 10 years later at a cost of
£60,000. The outside walls of the
jail, supported by buttresses, were
18ft. high and 18in. thick, and four
watchtowers were erected. The
enclosed area was about two acres;
the main wing could hold 186
prisoners. It was proclaimed as a
prison on Mar. 4, 1886, and the
first • Superintendent was William
Small, who had previously been in
charge of Berrima jail. He was
succeeded in 1889 by C. G. Horne,
and later J. W. Ca.mpbell was in
charge. The pris'oners (usually
upwards of 100) were engaged on
building a granite breakwater near .
the entrance to the Macleay, run-
ning northward for \\ mile from
Lugger Point, on the northern tip
of Smoky Cape. However, it was
found that the building of a break-
water by prison-labor was unsatis-
factory, and in other respects the
site was not suitable as a jail; it was
therefore disestablished on July 31,
1903. During World War I it was
used for a time as an internment-
camp. Fairly substantial ruins
remain as a sightseeing attraction.
Brief Answers
R.G.H.: The shares should
repay longish holding, though, as
recently shown, the Tariff Board is
rather critical of present efficiency.
This should improve; and the
business is a key industry
C.E.W.: According to the 1929
Commonwealth Year Book (No. 22),
“Electrification of the Melbourne
suburban railways was completed in
April, 1923. On Dec. 20, 1926, the
first of the [Sydney] underground
electric-lines—from Sydney Central
Station to St. James —was opened
few traffic” M.R.: Write Vic-
torian Statist’s Office, 295 Queen-
street, Melbourne. A charge is
made for each search —ss. for an
extract of a death-certificate, 10s. for
a full copy... .F.D.: (1) Edmund
Finn the Younger, who wrote A
Priest’s Secret: Under Seal of Con-
fession and The Hordern
Mystery (1889), died in 1922. He
was the son of Edmund Finn
(“Garryowen”), 1819-98, author of,
among other works, Der Eggsberi-
ences ov Hans Schwartz: with
Humorous Interleaves (1878) and
The “Garryowen” Sketches, His-
torical, Local and Personal (1880).
(2) “Lindsay Russell’’ or “Patricia


\V I /
/
/ / \ \
irons
smoother
faster!
X
100%
BRITISH MADE
★ EASY TO USE.
★ DRAUGHTPROOF- USE IT IN OR OUT OF DOORS,
★ NO WIRES OR FLEXES.
★ COMPLETE AND SIMPLE HEAT CONTROL
★ BURNS 4 HOURS ON ONLY iRD PINT
OF KEROSENE.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia.
In case of difficulty write for name of your
nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESE NJATI VE ;
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD,
MT. ALEXANDER RD„ ESS ENDO N, VI CTO R! A
Lindsay Russell” was the pen-name
of Patricia Ethel Stonehouse, who
also wrote under the names of
Harlingham Quinn and E. Harding-
ham Quinn. Most of her novels have
a romantic interest, with settings in
different parts of Australia and over-
seas (India, Middle East, England).
They include Smouldering Fires
(191.>), Kathleen Mavourneen: an
Australian Tale (1913), Sands o’ tiie
Desert (1913), The Years of For-
getting (1914), Gates of Silence
(1915) and Son of Iscariot (1916).
She wrote two books of poetry, The
Road of Yesterday (1916) and The
Caravan of Dreams and Other
Verses of the Grampians Road
(1923).... J.L.: (1) Yes. The R.S.L.
Federal Executive, at its meeting in
Canberra in February, decided to
back fully the Federal Govern-
ment’s “Bring Out a Briton” plan,
anounced by Minister for Immigra-
tion Townley on Jan. 23 this year.
(2) It wouldn’t imply any such
cutting -d o w n... .M.T. (Tas.):
When Nasser grabbed the Suez
Canal on July 26 last year, the canal
company s concession sun nau ii
years to run; under the original con-
cession-agreement, the canal was to
revert to the Egyptian Government
in 1968. So Nasser was definitely
not “in order in taking the action
he did”... .D.R.-J.: It was financed,
in the main, by the raising of loan-
money ; the method generally used
to finance railway-construction in
Australia Inquirer: Arthur Yates
and Co. suggest the plant in which
you are interested is Cupliea
jorullensis. This plant is an ever-
green that attains a height of 3-4 ft.,
flowers very freely thioughout the
summer months, and has a small
leaf. Hazelwood Bros. Pty., Ltd.,
Kent-street, Epping (N.S.W.), would
be able to supply the plant....
8.C.H.: (1) Try the Royal Zoo-
logical Society. (2) Royal
Zoological Society of
N.S.W., 28 Martin-place, Sydney.
(3) N.S.W. Travellers’ Aid Society,
358 Elizabeth-street, Sydney. (4)
Write the N.S.W. Forestry Com-
mission, 44 Margaret-street, Sydney.
. ...L.D.: (From Sir Edward
Flallstrom.) A kangaroo does not
spring from its tail. The tail is not
used in the leap at all, except as a
balance. When the animal is travel-
ling fast the tail does not touch the
ground. However, the kangaroo
uses its tail to sit on when it is
grazing; it then more-or-less rests
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
tor on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.]
on its tail and hind-legs....
D.J.: (1) National Association for
the Advancement of Colored
People: 20 W. 40th-street, New
York, N.Y., U.S.A. (2) Write the
U.K. Information Office, 39 Martin-
place, Sydney. (3) Simply, The
Secretary, Montgomery Improve-
ment Association, Montgomery,
Alabama, U.S.A. (4) They would
no doubt find money acceptable in
any form. (5) The Bulletin’s
policy of “Australia for the White
Man” is aimed at keeping Australia
predominantly a white- man’s
country, so as to avoid the national
divisions and friction seen in so
many countries of mixed population.
. ...J.A.C.: Write G. F. Middleton,
Box 1505, G.P.0., Colombo, Ceylon.
E.J.: (1) “Brigalow” is still
only in manuscript-form and will
not be published until later this
year. (2) No.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
A.M.: “Mr. Rollstone” is now
gauieimg moss... .ivi.C.: Read
“The Blues,” and never felt more
like singing them.... J.N.8.:
Wheezes along a leaky harmonium.
....S.K.: “Wombat” rhymed with
“tomcat” rather obvious
P.P.: Doesn’t “show promise,”
or anything much else M.0’8.:
Smooth as a stumpjump-plough
8.A.: “The Wandering Minstrel”
can’t rest here T.L.: Yes, but
what on earth’s a “recalcitrant con-
crete - mixer”? ... .L.P.: Dylan
Thomas got there first.... V T.:
Sorry to say you’re on your way.
O.C.: “Mag, the Charlady”
paid-off... .R.K.: Ode to gum-
trees out past Boggabilla beyonu the
pale Y.D.D.: The “yap, yap,
yap” of those terriers didn’t raise
a bite F.G.: Come and remove
“The Marsman”... .F.V.: No one
can be a poet in a day....Q.5.:
Appalling... .D.C.M.: Spirit will-
ing, but style weak 1.P.:
“Broken-hearted” didn’t leave us.
... .N.R.: By all means come
m a«.u warble:
I liked it long
I like it -short ;
Weekly “The Bulletin” I bought.
Its form may change—
Its contents ever
Hold interest for dull and clever.
Through short and tall
Through thick and thin
I’m sticking to, “The Bulletin” !
H.K.: Faintly sonorous; lacks
freshness G.V.: It’s a point:
I am weary of looking at rooftops
And backyards squalid and mean
With rubbish-bins all spilling over
And tomcats scrawny and lean.
P.C.: “Theatre Cat” pleasant
but a b’it thin .8.J.H.: All right,
we’ll bear it: —
Now bear with me for a while
And I’ll tell you in lyrical style
About a man who bravely fights
Against the ravaging bites
Of a host of influenza mites. v
He olten coughs with the tone and
not"
Of an Alsatian dog with a bone in
its throat.
. ...Oeilvie Tartan: Hoots, ye’re
awa’i: —
ii from life you want the spice,
Then you seek variety—•
But if you’re like me,
Your joie de vie
Is tempered with propriety,
Then one kind of spice you lose
And surely gain another
In the love and fun you have
Just minding Dad and Mother.
....S.K.: “Tea-trees” woody
1.M.T.: “Vain perhaps methinks
intangible existence.” Do try to
write as you would speak... .C.H.:
Come in off the sidewalk:
You see me each day on your way
through the city,
A man by a table of small odds and
ends.
Some deem to regard me with scorn,
some with pity.
The living I eke on the public depends.
H.M.M.: Don’t exactly know
how you can boil-down a bushfire,
but that’s what it needs... .J.W.:
Two very pleasant lines in the last
stanza of “Gumtree in Summer” ; the
poem as a whole labored J.8.T.:
“You will, I trust, pardon my
ingenuousness in admitting it to be
the first of my creative writings sub-
mitted for publication.” We will;
and indeed hold that sufficient
excuse for the poem M.1.C,:
“We strive in fathoms deep, and
evolution, Upward trend of human
life, what does it really mean?”
Ah, what? ... .M.C.: Only in a
children’s paper could the wind and
the rain indulge in poetical argu-
ment. :. .E.T.: We are offered so
many ruins... .C.G.; Glad to know
that you’re “Just whiling away the
time in Dreamland’s sunny bower.”
So, reading poetry, are we
You have said everything
the occasion calls for:
I guess my effort must appear quite
lame,
So, because of my austerity,
Perhaps it would be heinous
To think that posterity
Will remember me for my genius.
D.P.M.: Please, no roses round
the door. J.J.: “Caribou” has us
carabamboozled.... H.McP.: “Up-
surge” downsurged... .J.M.: The
best thing you can do with “Wag-
staffe” is break it... .D.J.: “Subur-
ban Summer” isn’t exactly hot
stuff... .Darcy: We’ll have this
much of Willy and the psychologist:
Don’t fret about Willy, it’s perfectly
silly,
For boys will be boys, don’t you know.
Just ignore playful stabbings and
smashings and grabbings,
These rabbits will certainly go.
If he burns down the house, just ignore
it, don’t grouse,
Most good little boys are just ninnies;
Though rather informal, he’s perfectly
normal.
My fee will be two hundred guineas.
....R.M.: Speak:
How could a cove enjoy his stingo
Compelled to talk in stilted lingo?
A word or two pushed in edgeways
With women chattering like jays
While buxom blondes and lanky lasses
Would leave their lipstick on the glasses.
The thought would set one’s teeth on
edge
If that day comes, I’ll sign the pledge.
. ...J.L.E.: Whether or not it’s
“worth the paper it’s written on”
depends, of course, on how much
you pay for your notepaper. But
since you’re hoping it’s a master-
piece we'll try it on the nation for
you:
THE WARRUMBUNGLE RUMBA.
There’s a song that they sing in Aus-
tralia, '
There’s a dance that they do outback ;
It doesn’t require a palatial hall,
Looks best when it’s done in a shack.
Chorus.
At the squatters’ hop they dance non-
stop
The Warrumbungle Rumba,
The rhythm's rough—the dance i»
tough,
The Warrumbungle Rumba.
Those tall, bronze men like an uncut
gem
Lack polish and refinement,
But on the floor, why, the girls adore
The Warrumbungle Rumba.
With sweethearts gay how those stock-
men play ;
It is a nice hot number;
The rhythm’s bold —the .dance is old,
The Warrumbungle Rumba.
And when at last the dance is past
The boys sing out like thunder,
“Come on ! Encore ! We want some more.
The Warrumbungle Rumba!”


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE MIDDLE EAST RECORD
TN the confusion of crises in
the Middle East and the
welter of argument about who
should hold the baby it is
welcome to see the “New York
Times” firmly stating the record
of United Nations and U.S.
commitments in the area.
Mr. Dulles having said that
the U.S. stands firmly by the
“hopes and expectations” it has
expressed regarding a settle-
ment of the conflict between
Egypt and Israel, the paper
reminds him that, as well as
those hopes and expectations,
there are “definite commit-
ments” and that the U.S. and
the U.N. “will be judged by
the way they live up to them.”
These commitments, which
take on a new urgency in view
of Nasser’s taking over the
administration of the Gaza
Strip and his proclamation of
a continued state of war with
Israel, are set down by the
“N. Y. Times” with admirable
clarity:
1.
“The basic resolution of the
United Nations General
Assembly of November 2,
1956, which, in calling for a
cease-fire and withdrawal of
the invading forces, also called
on all parties to ‘observe
scrupulously the provisions of
the armistice agreements....
to desist from raids across the
armistice lines.... to refrain
from introducing military
goods into the area’ and ‘to
restore secure freedom of navi-
gation in the Suez Canal.’
2.
“The General Assembly
resolution of November 5,
1956, which established a
United Nations Emergency
Force ‘to secure and supervise
the cessation of hostilities in
accordance with all the terms’
of the November 2 resolution.
3.
“Secretary-General Hammar-
skjoeld’s report of November
6 endorsed by the General
Assembly, that it would be the
function of the United Nations
force ‘to help maintain quiet
during and after the withdrawal
of non-Egyptian forces’ over
‘an area extending roughly
from the Suez Canal to the
armistice demarcation lines’
and ‘to secure compliance with
the other terms established in
the resolution of November 2.’
4.
“Mr. Hammarskjoeld’s report
of January 24 that in view of
the armistice agreements and a
Security Council decision ‘the
parties to the armistice agree-
ment may be considered as not
entitled to claim belligerent
rights’; his report of January
16 that ‘the international
significance of the Gulf of
Akaba may be considered to
justify the right of innocent
passage through the Strait of
Tiran and the Gulf in accord-
ance with recognised rules of
international law’ ; his report
of February 22 that ‘the take-
over of Gaza from the military
and civilian control of Israel
.... in the first instance would
be exclusively by the United
Nations Emergency Force,’ and
his report of March 8 that
’until further arrangements are
made, the United Nations
Emergency Force has assumed
responsibility for civil affairs
in the Gaza Strip.’
5.
“Ambassador Lodge’s state-
ment to the General Assembly
on January 28 that ‘under the
[armistice] agreement and
pursuant to the Security
Council decision, neither side
may assert belligerent rights,
much less engage in hostile
actions’; that ‘the United
States strongly supports the
Secretary - General’s recom-
mendation concerning the de-
ployment of the United Nations
Emergency Force on both sides
of the armistice lines....and
at tb„e Strait of Tiran.... to
achieve there the separation of
Egyptian and Israeli land- and
sea-forces.... until it is clear
that the non-exercise of any
claimed belligerent rights has
established in practice peace-
ful conditions.’
6.
“The United States memor-
andum to Israel dated Feb-
ruary 11 that ‘the future of the
Gaza Strip [is] to be worked
out through the efforts and
good offices of the United
Nations,’ and that ‘the United
States believes that the Gulf
[of Akaba] comprehends inter-
national waters and that no
nation has the right to prevent
free and innocent passage in
the Gulf and through the straits
giving access thereto.’
7.
“President Eisenhower’s
statement of February 20 that
‘the United States would be
glad to urge and support some
participation by the United
Nations, with the approval of
Egypt, in the administration of
the Gaza Strip’.... to assure
that the Strip ‘could no longer
be used as a source of armed
infiltration and reprisals' ; that
‘we should not assume that
.... Egypt will prevent Israeli
shipping from using the Suez
Canal or the Gulf of Akaba’
.... and that, if, unhappily,
Egypt does hereafter violate the
armistice agreement or other
international obligations, then
this should be dealt with firmly
by the society of nations.’
8.
“President Eisenhower’s
letter to Premier Ben-Gurion
assuring that ‘lsrael will have
no cause to regret’ its with-
drawal, and that ‘there should
be a united effort by all the
nations to bring about condi-
tions in the area more stable,
more tranquil and more con-
ducive to the general welfare
than those which existed here-
tofore.’ ”
The German Soldier
German view—from Ham-
burg “Die Welt” —of Europe’s
reaction to the new German
army:
“The British are relieved over
every i;ew German soldier.
They believe that German
rearmament permits them to
release their own soldiers. With
touching openness, they even
occasionally mention that a
strong German military estab-
lishment will cost us Germans
money and will decrease our
labor-force, and will thus cause
difficulties for our ‘export
offensive.’
“People simply refuse to
feel threatened by Ger-
many. On the whole, they
are truly happy in Paris and
in London that there will soon
once again be a few hundred
thousand men in Germany
wearing jackboots, which once
caused great nations to
shudder.
“It shows how the old con-
ceptions have been completely
voided by current world
developments. It is not as
though the old resentment
against the German steel-
helmet has suddenly given way
to a new, friendlier estimate.
The reality is far more amazing.
It is simply the obvious fact
that the old ideas have become
a matter of indifference. They
have simply slipped out of
—New York “Herald Tribune”
“REMEMBER—WE ALL SAW YOU ONCE WITH YOUR
SHIRT OFF.”


the consciousness of people in
a remarkable way. It is not
that they have somehow been
conquered by new ideas. They
have simply become boring.
They are being forgotten.”
Britain's Defence
Savings
The 27,000-reduction in
British forces in Germany hav-
ing been modified to 13,500,
the partial withdrawal from
Europe begins, as London
“Economist” puts it, with the
British Army “not tiptoeing
but siow-marching to the beat
of Allied groans.”
These groans seem unlikely
to arouse a great deal of sym-
pathy in Britain itself. As the
“Economist” further points
out, “the Continental Allies
have discoverea tnai contain s
pledge, given at the time of the
Paris agreements, not to
weaken its forces on the Con-
tinent against, their will, can-
not in practice be invoked by
a Germany which has failed
to raise its promised troops
and a France which has taken
most of its troops away to
Algeria.”
London “Financial Times”
also notes that “Britain’s
initiative has at last focused
attention on the glaring
inequity in the distribution of
the collective responsibility
among the individual members
of the alliance. It is the Ger-
mans who are now asking foi
an overall review of the re-
sources of the alliance and a
new approach to the problem
of sharing the burden. That
represents a useful advance —
even though it is five years
overdue.”
To that comment “Man-
chester Guardian” adds that it
will be so much the better if
Britain’s review of its defence
undertakings on the Continent
induces its Allies to look
squarely at the military facts:
“But, as in the past few
weeks, the pretence may be
kept up that an effective
ground-defence can be —or has
been—built in Western Europe.
At present it is a sham. The
forces available to General
Norstad are not a wall against
Soviet invasion, but a thin
tissue. If the Russians were to
launch their armored divisions
from Eastern Eurbpe they
would reach the Rhine in a
matter of hours and the Atlan-
tic within a week.
“individually the divisions
under General Norstad may be
well trained and well equipped,
but they are too few. That
ought to be recognised, for it
is the starting-point in a
revision of strategy.”
In noting another fact
brought out by the British
withdrawal, London “Daily
Telegraph” recalls that, “for
the past few months Britain
has been advised from many
quarters to take a back seat in
the councils of the world.
“But immediately we give
the slightest hint of taking this
advice an immense howl goes
up begging us to continue as
before. Look at what has hap-
pened over Britain’s decision
to withdraw 27,000 soldiers
from Germany.
“When the French with-
drew most of their troops for
the Algerian war it was
accepted as inevitable. When
the West Germans failed to
rearm it was also accepted as
inevitable. But when Britain,
who at present bears a quite
disproportionate burden, re-
cently suggested slightly light-
ening her load, every other
member of the North Atlantic
Alliance, from the United
States to Belgium, joined in
a chorus of protest.
“It is heartening to realise
just how invaluable and prized
British leadership in Europe
actually is.”
Seato
New York “Herald Tribune”
comment on the third annual
conference of the South-east
Asian Treaty Organisation :
“Fortunately, the Council of
Ministers of Seato has recog-
nised the fact that it is just as
important to bolster the
economies of the nations of
South-east Asia as it is to
protect them against military
aggression. It recommended
certain projects to relieve the
economic burden of defence
and to make a contribution
toward the economic develop-
ment of these countries through
co-operative action.
“At the same time it made
a bid for wider membership—
and consequently more mutual
economic aid—by pointing out
that it was not an exclusive
organisation but was open to
all countries in South-east
Asia which are willing to share
its benefits and responsibilities,
“The military shield provided
by Seato is important, but the
commercial and financial -wel-
fare of these nations is equally
important in resisting Com-
munist infiltration.
“If the new and old nations
in this region can be helped to
expand their industries and
their agriculture, to make more
use of their natural resources,
they will be in a better position
—London “Daily Express”
“BROTHER, WHEN I TIPTOE OUT OF EUROPE YOU WON’T SEE MY FEET
FOR DUST."
to deal with Red China’s
tactics.”
U.K. Oil-supplies
It would seem that neither
atomic energy nor super-
tankers can do a great deal to
change what Edinburgh
“Scotsman” describes as “the
rather gloomy future for
British oil-supplies in general.”
There is first, the paper com-
ments, the “continued uncer-
tainty over the future of the
Suez Canal”:
“Nothing in America’s hand-
ling of the problem so far has
made it reasonable to expect
the kind of stable settlement on
which businessmen can rely.
The presumption is that since
Nasser has had a free hand
in everything until now, he will
also be able to impose con-
ditions on British and French
use of the canal.
“Prospective users of the
canal, then, might have to
take fairly high dues into
consideration, and even the
prospect of continually rising
dues. It is not unrealistic to
foresee something like this at
a time when no one seems to
have found an effective way of
bringing pressure to bear on
Nasser.
“Similarly we cannot ever
again feel so confident about
the overland pipelines. The
cost of restoring them will in
itself raise the price of oil.
Even then, they will always be
at the mercy of politics in an
area where stability is no
longer guaranteed. Instability
in itself can be a blackmail
threat. Gradually increasing
royalties might well be the price
of peace for oil companies,
Even the security of the oil-
sources cannot be guaranteed
absolutely.
“Companies may solve some
problems by making wider use
of tankers, but the cost of build-
ing these great new fleets will
react on future oil prices,
Tankers will also compete whh
the atomic-energy programme
for steel. Despite all these
factors making for higher cost,
a big expansion in Europe’s
demand is foreseen, an expan-
sion calling for investment to
double the Middle East supply.
“If the price of oil goes high
enough, there will be an added
incentive to develop new
sources, for • instance in
Alberta, Nigeria, or the
Sahara. For the oil- and petrol-
user, there will be a much
greater incentive to develop
economy of burning. In
Britain the small car will per-
haps give way to the midget,
and the larger to some form of
gas-turbine model using fairly
crude fuel. Since political con-
ditions cannot be relied on,
technology must struggle to
redress the balance.”
Also considering the pro-
blem, London “Economist”
weighs-up all the alternatives
to oil as a fuel, and all the
alternative sources of oil, and
finds “the conclusion is in-
escapable : Britain must have
oil, and by far the cheapest
source for that oil is still the
Middle East.”
“The Middle East producing
countries must have a market
for their oil in the West ; and
the West —including the United
States —must have oil from the
Middle East. If the rising
nationalism of the peoples of


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia: F. H. Egerton,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Manager for Australia.
the Middle East could be con-
strained by economics, there
would always be some price at
which a bargain could be
struck.
“But s 6 little of the oil-
revenues has yet filtered down
to raise the general standard
of living in the oil-pro-
ducing countries of the Middle
East that their rulers are not
subject to much political pres-
sure if they choose periodically
to act according to nationalist
caprice rather than their
economic interest; while the
interest of the countries lack-
ing oil but crossed by pipe-
lines tends automatically to-
wards intransigent blackmail.
“The irresistible pressure in
the Arab world is nationalism.
Economic bargains are neces-
sary, but by themselves they
are no longer sufficient because
they do not guarantee per-
formance. International con-
sultation over production and
the supply-routes may sound
Utopian, but could anything
less than this endure?
“The Arabs must come to
feel that they are exploiting
their own oil-resources, with
the help of the foreign com-
panies ; the companies, for
their part, must retain sufficient
flexibility and margin of profit
to make their operations com-
mercially worth while. Only
in this way could the security
of tenure of the oil companies
in the Middle East be assured.
“Not all oil-men and not all
Arabs are so buried under
their present preoccupations
that they fail to see this.”
H-bomb Tests
The forthcoming British
H-bomb tests on Christmas
Island are, John Davy notes
in London “Observer,” a source
of continual controversy, the
main questions being:
“What are the hazards of
atomic tests? ,
“How serious are they?
“And why are the tests
necessary?”
Answering the last question,
Davy points out that the first
atomic bombs and the first
H-bomb “were heavy, clumsy
affairs—the latter was not a
weapon but an elaborate con-
traption on a tower.”
To produce compact weapons
from these earlier experiments,
and to check the intricate
devices and elaborate calcula-
tions which they require—
these things, Davy notes, add-
up to a case, on purely tech-
nical grounds, “for tests to
check both that the devices
work at all and that they work
as predicted.”
Summing-up the answers to
the other two questions, Davy
adds that, “however much the
doctors and scientists disagree
in their estimates and in their
assessment of the figures, they
will all agree that there has
already been some damage
to health and some genetic
—London “Daily Express”
“THEY COULDN'T BUST THE BRITISH, BUT WE DON’T EVEN HA VE TO TRY.”
damage from past tests ; and
that each additional test will
do more damage.
“This means that any nation
which carries out further tests
has a grave responsibility to
give the rest of the world a
convincing explanation for
doing so. The widespread
anxiety about this subject
shows that the explanations so
far given have not been con-
vincing.”
“Manchester Guardian,” in
an editorial concerned particu-
larly with the moral aspects of
the tests, notes further that
“the effect of radio-strontium,
which appears to. be the most
dangerous component of the
poison [carried into the upper
atmosphere by the explosions],
is that it is absorbed in plants
when it falls back to earth,
whence it finds its way into
milk and then into human
bones.
“Once there it can cause
leukaemia, which is almost
always fatal. There is no
doubt that the number of cases
of leukaemia eventually caused
by radioactivity from bombs
is proportional to the amount
of strontium which falls back
to earth. There is no safe limit.
The question of how many
hydrogen-bombs can safely be
exploded must be understood
as: How many cases of
leukaemia can human society
tolerate?
“The best thing that could
happen after Christmas Island
is that there might be hammered
out some sensible agreement
with the United States on an
exchange of information about
bombs.
“A demonstration that
bombs made outside Los
Alamos can explode with equal
power is probably needed to
convince Congress of the sanity
of such an agreement. But it
should only be necessary to
explode a single bomb for this
purpose. What reason is there
to think that three, or five,
bombs will be more telling
than one? And five bombs may
carry us perilously near the
point at which the number of
victims of test explosions
becomes a burden on
humanity.”
Gunboats or
Gunboats
Commenting on the U.S.
request to Ethiopia for per-
mission to base three warships
at Massawa in the Red Sea
during peace-time—and more
in war-time —Toronto “Globe
and Mail” sees the purpose of
such a base as plain enough
—“to deal with Middle Eastern
situations in general, and with
the Egyptian-lsraeli situation in
particular”:
“The United States argues
that the Gulf of Akaba, at the
northern end of the Red Sea, is
an international waterway ;
and that ships of all countries
have the right (which Egypt
denies in Israel’s case) to peace-
ful passage through it.
“Reports have it that the
United States is willing to back
up its viewpoint with men-
of-war; and Massawa would
be a good anchoring-place for
them. They could also be used
—though Washington has been
silent on this score —to support
Israel’s argument that she is
entitled (which Egypt also
denies) to peaceful passage
through the Suez Canal.
“United States warships at
Massawa could, in short, be
used as a standing threat to
Egypt. Hence, Egypt’s uncon-
cealed alarm at the United
States proposal, and at
Ethiopia’s seeming acceptance
of it.”
There is, the “Globe and
Mail” adds, “nothing wrong
with the proposal”:
“During the last few-months,
the United States has got itself
heavily involved in the Middle
East; the so-called Eisenhower
Doctrine, now approved by
Congress, makes it certain the
United States will remain
heavily involved there. In these
circumstances, the United
States must have Middle East
bases.
“But what was Washington’s
attitude toward Britain’s
Middle East bases, when
Britain was heavily involved in
the Middle East? Such bases
were, in Washington’s view,
offensive symbols of an out-
dated imperialism. Accord-
ingly, it insisted —quite openly
—that the British abandon
their great base in the Suez
Canal Zone. The British did
so. And what was the result?
A series of disasters which have


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
—London “Daily Minor"
PROGRESS REPORT.
done incalculable damage to
the Middle East and Western
Europe, and have dumped
appalling problems into the lap
of the United States itself.
“The United States has not
insisted that Britain abandon
her Middle East base of
Cyprus. That base, as the
United States well knows, is
essential to the North Atlantic
Treaty Organisation. But it
cannot be said Washington has
shown much sympathy to
Britain’s problems over
Cyprus ; or much vigor in try-
ing to get them resolved (as in
the end they must be resolved)
at the Nato level. Here again,
Washington is looking down its
nose at ‘imperialism.’
“But a United States naval
base in Ethiopia—that is some-
thing different. It will be
American and, as everybody
knows, the Americans are not
imperialists. Further, it will
not be owned (as Cyprus is
owned by Britain), but rented,
the rent being paid in dollar -
aid. Thus, with a clear con-
science, the United States is
preparing to build a base in the
Middle East and station gun-
boats at it.
“And only a boor would
remark that, imperialist or non-
imperialist, they are still
gunboats.”
Britain and Europe
An Italian view (from Turin
“La Stampa”) of the import-
ance of British troops in
Europe:
“Great Britain’s proposal for
a reduction of her forces in
Germany, though justified by
valid reasons, is exceptionally
grave and may upset the
political equilibrium on the
Continent.
“Italy and all the other
allies are afraid that this
partial British demobilisation
may encourage the isolationist
trend in the United States,
which is favorable to the with-
drawal of United States forces
from Germany.
“The British move would be
less serious if Europe could
count on a solid defence-
organisation, but Europe is far
from possessing a military
power capable of guaranteeing
her security.
“It is more necessary than
ever that Europe should be
protected by a strong ‘conven-
tional’ army precisely in order
to avert the danger of atomic
warfare.”
British By-elections
British press-comment on
the swing against the Macmil-
lan Government as indicated
in the last half-dozen by-
elections :
London “News Chronicle”:
“The Government is paying
the price of its failure to live
up to all its talk of opportunity
and enterprise. Quite apart
from the Suez fiasco, excessive
taxation and high prices still
oppress the country after five-
and-a-half years of Conserva-
tive rule.
“What the Government must
do is to live up to its boasts
of fighting inflation and pro-
viding incentives to the enter-
prising. The country cannot
afford a spending-spree like
that of 1954-55. Nor can it
afford to frustrate the hard-
working.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“Mr. Macmillan and his
colleagues are insisting, quite
rightly, that the country should
face the realities of its financial
situation. Bit by bit they are
succeeding. The greater their
success in the next two years,
the more certain it is that many
who vote against them now
will not wish to vote for
Socialism in 1960.
“In so far as the voting at
ty-elections is interpreted as a
protest against financial
realism it should be ignored ;
in so far as it represents in
safe Conservative seats a pro-
test against high taxation,
injustice towards the middle-
class, and the snuffing-out of
enterprise it should be taken
heed of.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian’’:
“The Conservative party’s
recovery after the war was
achieved by moving so far to
the Left that it became
almost indistinguishable from
moderate Labor. The problem
now is how far it dare go in
widening the gap between the
parties. The current demand
from the middle-class dissi-
dents is for lower taxes. But
have we reached a point when
a Government which attempts
sharp cuts in public spending
can no longer keep a Parlia-
mentary majority? That is the
Conservatives’ dilemma.”
Various Voices
Lord Woolton: “Britain’s
Conservative party should not
be frightened ■of present un-
popularity but should embrace
it, explaining to the country the
reasons behind the policy. It
should remind the country that
the greatest danger that it faces
is the danger of recurrent
financial crises due to inflation,
and that the Conservative
Government is determined to
preserve the value of the £.
It should make clear to all that
unless such actions are taken,
it will not for long be possible
to maintain the high and stable
level of employment.”
* * *
The Earl of Home ( Britain’s
Commonwealth Relations Sec-
retary): “We must practise
what we preach, and prove to
those at present subdued by
Communism, or uncommitted,
that the way of life of the
free world is the only way of
life for mankind.”
* * *
Prime Minister Macmillan :
“There is no difference between
Socialism and Communism
except this: Socialism is soft,
Communism is hard Socialism
is pink, Communism is red;
Socialism gets you down bit
by bit by a kind of anesthetic
process. It might almost be
called mercy killing. ' Com-
munism just knocks you on
the head.”
* * *
Lord Hailsham: “Wherever
you turn, the theoretical
assumption is that everyone
has a prescriptive right to exist
at the expense of everyone
else at a gradually-increasing
standard of life. It is quite
clearly time that someone
looked these facts plainly in
the eye.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Australian Workers
One of the strangest aspects
of the Australian scene is the
habit—common to press, pulpit
arid employers—of belittling
Australian workers. On the
other hand, most visiting
executives, as well as the heads
of overseas firms established
here, are equally loud in their
praise of the same worker.
This is extraordinary.
Apparently the Australian
worker is at once lazy, incom-
petent and generally no good,
and then without a peer for
efficiency, diligence and man-
hour output.
Some of the largest industrial
concerns in the world have
backed their opinion by estab-
lishing branches in Australia,
invariably with satisfactory
results. Examples come readily
to mind: G.-M.-H., oil-
companies, Standard, Ford,
1.C.1. and dozens of others, the
most profitable undertakings
in the country.
These firms, with their
modern machines, modern
methods and efficient top-
management, have given the
Australian worker the chance to
show that he is equal to any
and superior to most. You
don’t hear the heads of these
companies wasting their time
in unmerited criticism; you
don’t hear them blaming the
worker for shortcomings in
their own organisations.
This is significant. They
have nothing to complain
about, because their own
houses are in order. Their
industries are run efficiently and
the Australian worker is able
to produce speedily and
efficiently also. It is also
significant that these firms
prefer Australian workmen if
they can get them.
Now look at the other side
of the picture. Anybody who
has spent years in purely Aus-
tralian industry cannot fail to
have noted that too many of
them are not well managed.
There are large factories
equipped with obsolete
machinery often not kept in
decent order. Frequently there
are poor handling methods and
inefficient top-management. In
spite of all these things the
Australian worker manages to
turn out first-quality goods,
slowly it is admitted.
A lot of people think that
there are not many factories
run like this. There would be
some surprises if it were
disclosed how many and who
the firms are.
It is the heads of these firms
who yell about the Australian
worker. To cover up their own
inefficiency they pass the buck
to someone who can pass it
no further.
If Australian top-manage-
ment got together and modern-
ised plant, methods and
management, the Australian
worker would do the rest —just
as he has done in efficient
industry.— Kayell (Vic.).
Teachers and Honors
Teachers, as the Anglican
Bishop of Armidale remarked
lately, seem to be consistently
ignored in the Australian New
Year and Queen’s Birthday
honors-lists.
Few professions are so de-
serving of official recognition.
A great teacher can profoundly
affect the future of a country.
Arnold of Rugby, for instance,
was one of the leading influ-
ences in moulding the charac-
teristics that made Victorian
England the leading Power in
the world. His disciples carried
his conception of an English
gentleman to every part of the
British Empire, and beyond.
Australia has produced some
great headmasters and head-
mistresses whose influence has
been widely felt. Aren’t they
as worthy of recognition as the
businessmen, lawyers, poli-
ticians, graziers, civil servants
and soldiers? — Terry the
Tory (N.S.W.).
Road-accidents
Both answers to my earlier
article on road-accidents (B.
13/3/’57) neatly illustrated my
first point—that clever propa-
ganda by the temperance
people infers that most road-
accidents are caused by drink.
I did not deny that excessive
drinking is a cause of accidents,
and a very serious one. 1
claim that it is not the only
one, nor the chief one. That
doubtful distinction goes to a
type of character-defect known
as “accident-proneness.” We
know a bit about this condi-
tion, but not nearly enough for
accurate diagnosis, or for suc-
cessful treatment.
Some cases are simple. A
man with a crashing inferiority-
complex will overcompensate
“He'd had a few when I met him, but I got the
impression he Was a boss around here.”
by driving as if he owns the
road. He will speed round
corners, half-hoping to meet
trouble so that he can show his
skill in getting out of it. He
will try to pass everything on
the road, and if the car in front
does not give way as quickly
as he thinks it should, he may
try to run it off the road when
he gets past, to teach the driver
a lesson. Of course, he does
not give way himself.
This kind of driver is really
trying to prove, not so much to
others as to himself, what a
mighty man he is. The point
is that he will act similarly in
all circumstances. In industry
he will disregard safety-pre-
cautions and rush ahead with a
job ; in the home he would not
think of wasting time switch-
ing-off at the main before re-
placing a fuse; on the beach
he will go out too far ; in the
bush he will be careless with
fires—all with the same sub-
conscious end.
Such a man is often a
drinker. If one of his accidents
happens when he is not sober,
drink will be blamed. it is
part, but not the root-cause, of
the trouble. Take away his
licence and you make the roads
that much safer, but he will
still menace himself, other
people and property in other
ways. A psychiatrist may be
able to help some of these
cases, but unfortunately they
aren’t all so simple.
As far as road-safety is con-
cerned, the biggest obstacle to
recognising and curing these
cases is the insistence by some
rabid teetotallers that people
who drink are the main cause
of road accidents. — Magnoon
(Q-).
Self-help for the Aged
As “E.V.A.” says (B.
13/3/’57), those old people
who are “neither poor nor
rich” can do a great deal by
pooling their small capital.
But whether they participate
in Government-supported plans
or their own private schemes,
I don’t think they should buy
old cottages and renovate
them, unless with very sound
guidance. It is a much sounder
proposition to build new homes
or flat-units.
There are many pitfalls in
buying old dwellings. As a
master-builder I know how
high the cost of properly reno-
vating an old building can be.
Even when the building is
restored it may not prove en-
tirely suitable and its life is
limited, which makes it a poor
investment for such schemes.
Although “E.V.A.” says the
participants would be active,


they can very quickly become
inactive. It is necessary to plan
services and facilities which
take these factors into account
and ensure that those who do
become inactive have proper
medical attention, take nourish-
ment and get plenty of exercise
and mental interest.
With a number of people,
each with a little capital, such
a scheme would not cost £lOOO
for each contributor. Depend-
ing on the nature of the con-
tributions by individual parti-
pants, the Federal Government
contributes a pound-for-pound
subsidy for homes for the
aged. Also, the support of the
general public is usually forth-
coming. These two sources of
finance are a valuable help.
Flats are the cheapest to
build, but whether they are
flats or small, individual homes
they can be quite private and
each resident independent.
The Thomas Holt scheme at
Sutherland (N.S.W.), of which
I am a co-founder, is proving
this. In the short time it has
been going we have completed
two cottages (already occupied)
of a group of five.
There are many civic-
minded people ready and
willing to draw-up plans and
guide through schemes which
will become assets to the com-
munity and grow in size and
value. The hands of local-
government are tied to a very
large extent, but there are
many ways in which it can and
does help.
The Federal Government
has been quick to realise this
and is making an excellent
pound-for-pound investment in
the interests of taxpayers.
More than this, by guiding
finance into the right type of
scheme, the Government is
ensuring co-operation along
very sound lines by all in-
terested in the problem.—K.
Bates (N.S.W.).
Cheap Books
I’m afraid H. A. Lindsay
is pipe-dreaming about the
production of cheap books (B.
13/3/’57). It is very doubt-
ful if any satisfactory substi-
tute, plastic or otherwise, for
the present dependable boards
will ever be found, and while
the paperbacks are cheap, like
all cheap things they do not
endure. After two or three
readings they begin to disin-
tegrate, and their tattered
dress besmirches the shelves of
the true booklover.
As for the so-called expensive
and useless dustjacket, I have
in my collection many volumes
clothed in jackets which are
works of art. My copy of The
Books of the Bulletin, for
instance, has a striking two-
toned jacket of stout texture
calculated to ensure the preser-
vation of the book in mint
condition for whoever may
acquire it after I pass on.
Perhaps I’m an eccentric
bibliophile who knows the
delight of feeling and
smelling, too —a handsome,
solidly-bound book, but at
least I march in the company
of a multitude. Bagot
(W.A.).
National Service
Western nations have felt the
cost of national service in
industrial loss of manpower
and, possibly, in loss of
national pride among some
of the conscripted men.
An intelligent man, keen to
wear mufti again, can reach
a high standard of efficiency
in short order. If he knew
he would be discharged on
reaching that standard he would
learn military duties rapidly,
get off the taxpayers’ payroll
and re-enter productive
employment. A minimum
period of, say, six months could
be set to enable him to absorb
the atmosphere of the Service.
In war-time men quickly
become efficient because of
keenness for promotion, an
understanding that a man with
the know-how has best chance
of survival, and several other
reasons. National - service
schemes, with sensible, well-
versed officers and n.c.o.s, could
achieve that quick result in
peace-time, too. —Tackline S.
(N.S.W.).
Long-service Leave
So the Privy Council has, in
effect, decided that Victorian
employees covered by the
Federal Metal Trade Award —
and, by implication, employees
under many other awards —are
entitled to long-service leave,
irrespective of what their
conditions of employment are
as laid down by the award
itself.
The decision has been hailed
by trade-unionists as a victory
which will aid their efforts to
make long-service leave an
Australia-wide privilege.
What a farce it all is! A
youth who enters a firm’s
service at 15 and spends his
working life with it will be
entitled, under the Long-service
Leave Act, to three months’
leave on full pay at 35, another
three months’ at 55, and pro
rata pay or leave on retirement
at 65. All that on top of his
annual leave and statutory
holidays, whether his service is
good or indifferent.
By way of contrast, the enter-
prising chap who moves from
one firm to another to improve
himself and gain wider experi-
ence, never putting in two
decades with the one employer,
will not get a day’s long-service
pay.
Superannuation or a retiring
pension after a lifetime of
service has a lot to be said
for it. Long-service leave,
which merely Rewards the lazy
and the stick-in-the-mud, has
little or nothing to commend
it —it is merely a superfluous
public-service privilege that the
privately employed worker,
naturally enough, wants to
share.
Any notion that such leave
is necessary to enable an
employee to recuperate from
the ardor of his protracted
toil is completely knocked on
the head by the readiness with
which workers on their three-
months’ break take on
temporary jobs.
The Privy Council’s decision
is right in law but it’s an
unfortunate one for our
struggling, cost-burdened
industries. —Doynest (Vic.).
Trading-banks and Housing
Nobody could maintain that
the Chifley banking bill, of 1945
did the Labor party any good,
yet A. A. Calwell keeps return-
ing to it. He has been volubly
protesting that he would be
quite satisfied to settle for the
1945 Act —the very Act which
so effectively settled his own
party.
Now, because he claims that
the trading-banks are not lend-
ing enough of their deposits on
long-term housing-loans, he
says they are looking for
trouble and asking for
nationalisation.
Has he forgotten that in
1935 the Lyons Government
set up a Royal Commission on
Banking and that J. B. Chifley
was a member of it? Did he
ever read the excellent and
comprehensive report which
the commission presented and
does he remember that one of
the main recommendations was
“that mortgage-banks should
be established to provide
facilities for fixed and long-
term lending”?
As trading-banks accept
money from the public at call
(current accounts) and for
short fixed periods (fixed
deposits), of which two years
is the longest term, and then
proceed to lend such moneys
on overdrafts payable on
demand, or by discounting bills
for short periods, it is obvious
that long-term lending to any
great extent would not be
sound practice. In fact, one
member of the commission
maintained that Australian
banking practice in the past
had been “rather too much one
of borrowing short and lending
long,” and that “it would be
fetter, both for the banking


system and the people of Aus-
tralia, if this were altered.”
In the earlier years of Aus-
tralia’s development, banks
put a high percentage of their
available funds into loans
against broad acres, house-
property and the like, but the
Australian economy has vastly
altered since then. Australia
is no longer mainly a country
of primary production, and
avenues for proper investment
of bank-funds are considerably
widened.
It was the overlending on
building- land and house-
property which resulted in
some of the banks suspending
payment in the crash of 1893.
Boom-prices prevailed in those
days, and who is to say whether
present prices have not a
boom-flavor about them? If
lenders are to accept present
inflated prices as a basis for
security value, then they might
very easily find themselves in
trouble long before a long-term
loan had been even substanti-
ally reduced, let alone paid-
off.
Be that as it may, I think
it would be a good idea if all
debaters on finance for hous-
ing, especially so far as it con-
cerns trading-banks, carefully
studied the report of that Royal
Commission on Banking. They
would then be better informed
on the subject and their views
might then be worth listening
to.
Banking and finance are
complex subjects on which the
usual soapbox-orators are not
qualified to debate, and yet
there are few subjects on which
they are so vocal. I would as
soon listen to their views on
surgery.— Ceg (Vic.).
Bell’s Trams?
The shade of the irascible but
kind-hearted Alex Cameron,
who was H. H. Bell’s pre-
decessor as chairman of the
Melbourne Tramways Board
(B. 20/3/’57), must be revolving
in its grave at the thought of
so much being attributed to
Bell.
It was Cameron who
managed to get the various
suburban systems, including the
old cable one, amalgamated
into one it was he who was
in charge when the conversion
of the cable-lines to electricity
was begun (I recall nostalgically
a trip on the front of the
dummy down St. Kilda-road to
where the first conversion work
on the Esplanade had been
held-up by a strike); and it was
he who appointed the board’s
first publicity-officer, well-
known Sydney and Melbourne
journalist Archie Whyte.
It was Cameron, too, who
faced the first wave of public
opinion which advocated the
scrapping of all trams and the
substitution of buses, and it
was he who took over with
enthusiasm the development of
Wattle Park as a public play-
ground and, without anyone
except the architect knowing it,
incorporated the layout for a
golf-course. As a kid in East
Camberwell I had known the
area long before there was
any idea of a park there, and
had often ridden to it on my
bike. Because of this, when
Alex Cameron planted the first
“official” wattle and Bell, I
think, planted the second, I
was allowed to plant the third.
As one of the predecessors
of “Waddlin’ Willie” on
western rounds, I saw the
advent of the publicity-officers
(no one had then coined the
phrase “public-relations”) in the
Tramways, the Railways and
the Board of Works. I imagine
that Whyte was the first of
them, and although a teetotaller
himself he showed a vivid
knowledge of reporters’ needs
during the trips he organised to
parks, workshops and depots.
There was always a bottle of
Scotch for Cameron and his
cronies on the board, and at
that period no attempt was
made to interpose the publicity-
man between the chairman and
the newspapermen.
Certainly Cameron would get
purple in the face when
editorials appeared attacking
the board’s p oli ci e s and
advocating more buses, but he
always saw the reporters him-
self, and after calming down
would give them well-phrased
statements which gradually
had their effect on public
opinion. I’m sure that E. H.
Cox, now the Melbourne
“Herald” man in Canberra and
in those days the “Argus”
western roundsman, would
endorse my view that Cameron
at least began the p.-r. pro-
gramme of the board, and left
it in a satisfactory state when
Bell took over. — Stromlo
(A.C.T.).
Television
Even if there were TV in
every home in Sydney and
Melbourne (B. 20 /3 / ’57) it
would be much too early to
I
gauge its effects. Any invention
or innovation, whatever its
nature, takes years to become
absorbed as part of national
life.
In trying to assess TV we
must look forward at least a
decade. Educational and social
values may be vastly different
in 1967 from what they are
now, and TV will very likely
have been responsible for 75
per cent, of the change.
• Costs may not have as great
a bearing on this matter as
many people imagine. Prices
of cars and many other pro-
ducts have soared since the
war, yet car-sales have increased
tremendously in the same
period. It could easily be the
same story with TV-sets, the
prices of which, at the moment,
seem prohibitive to the average
wage-earner.
It is possible for TV to be
as common in homes within
10 years as radio is now ; and
its social, educational and
moral influences may then be
measurable.— Arthur Falk.
(Vic.).
State Housing
There’s sense in “Domes-
ticus’s” suggestion (B. 27/3/’57)
that State-housing tenants who
are well-off and not entitled to
State largesse “should be told
their homes are to be given
to someone more needy or
sold at auction.”
Housing the ordinary citizen
has never been a proper func-
tion of the State. Housing the
needy those who through
age, ill-health or other dis-
abilities are incapable of
making or finding hontes for
themselves has long been
recognised as a community
responsibility, and it was only
the abnormal post-war housing-
shortage that induced State
Governments to embark on the
hopeless job of trying to pro-
vide houses for everybody.
Not only has the venture into
wholesale housing brought
financial loss to every Govern-
ment that has attempted it; it
has seriously interfered with
the Government's bona fide job
of looking after the really
helpless and eradicating the
slums. Victoria’s present
Government, at any rate, has
seen the light. It is trying to
cut its losses by disposing of
homes a ; eadv built, and to
concentrate on the task of slum-
clearance for which the State-
Housing Commission was
originally established.
A further obvious step would
be to lay down a firm policy
that State-owned houses are to
provide temporary accom-
modation only, placing the
onus on tenants to establish
their need for such State
assistance. Then, an applica-
tion for a tenancy or its
continuance would have to give,
the fullest information on the
financial and other circum-
stances of the applicant—
exactly as is required in the
case of pensions or any other
form of State aid.
Thus the well-off childless
couples, the owners of expen-
sive cars and TV-sets, and the
big-income families now
occupying so many State homes
would be obliged to move on
and make room for others less
happily situated. The State
would have temporary accom-
modation to offer'to migrants,


the victims of domestic
tragedies, and others in real
need. And John Citizen—the
taxpayer —would be spared the
burden of providing houses for
very many persons who could
well afford to shift for them-
selves.—Wusslean (Vic.).
Exports
A pleasing feature of the
export-figures for the seven
months ended January 1,
1957, was the strong upward
trend.
Two exceptions were fresh
and tinned meat, which
dropped substantially, and this
calls for inquiry. Overseas
competitors in these lines are
favored by bounties, cheaper
transport, lower labor-costs
and the fact that the English
home-grown market is pro-
viding a greater proportion of
local requirements than before.
Price is important, but of
more significance is the quality
of the goods, and we may be
slipping in that direction. We
should remember that once a
market is lost because of poor
quality it is very hard to regain.
—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
Aitape
“Wild Harry’s” refutation
(B. 27/2/’57) of my Aitape
incident calls for a little more
data to refresh the memory he
relies on. The exact date of
assault I can’t recall off-hand,
but at dawn of that morning,
in company with H.M.A.S.
Australia and a U.S.N.
squadron, Shropshire laid
down an intense barrage last-
ing a couple of hours. So
effective was the bombardment
that, to quote “Wild Harry,”
“all hell was blown out of the
place.”
During the show Tokyo Rose
broadcast a special bulletin of
the attack. It was picked up
by Shroppie’s radio and
enjoyed immensely, particu-
larly when she described Aus-
tralia as being down by the
bows and out of action, while
all the time the wily old Aussie
was off our port quarter blow-
ing seven bells of hell out of
the Japs. Finally the Yank
ground-troops were landed. I
expect the R.A.A.F. boys were
with them.
For the next six weeks the
Navy lay offshore. The plan
was for the freshly landed
troops to fight towards another
Allied force at one end of the
island. This would sandwich
the Japs until they were
sufficiently bunched for one of
the ships to blast them. I think
it was on one such occasion
at Aitape (my location may be
wrong; our island campaigns
were many) that Australia fired
one Bin. shell which accounted
for an estimated 500 Japs killed
and wounded.
As for troops being con-
fined to funk-holes! Parties of
matelots were invited ashore by
the Yanks for a conducted tour
of the fighting perimeter. Also,
Shropshire screened films
nightly on the fo’c’sle, which
illumination would have
ensured her certain destruction
had the Japs been dangerous.
The living-quarters which
“W.H.” never saw —well, I
don’t suppose there would be
any left when he first landed,
but as my previously published
incident took place some weeks
after the initial landing it’s
obvious that new quarters
would have been erected. After
all, no self-respecting chef
would tolerate cooking in
a funk-hole. Dolphin
(N.S.W.).
Public Telephones
About six months ago a pair
of public telephone-boxes were
installed in Blaxcell - street,
Granville, an outer Sydney
suburb, and except for the first
two nights there has not been
a light in either box.
This is an open invitation to
vandals, and one rarely finds
both telephones in working
order.
At regular intervals an
employee calls and sweeps the
boxes and the coins are
regularly cleared, but. it seems
to be nobody’s business to
report the fact that the boxes
are always in darkness at night.
—Eureka (N.S.W.).
AXEMEN FOR OVERSEAS
■COUR Australian axemen,
to be selected for their ver-
satility, will tour America later
this year to demonstrate their
efficiency against the best
lumberjacks the United States
and Canada can produce.
They will have the oppor-
tunity to really qualify for the
term, “world champion axe-
man.”
The invitation has been
extended through the Axemen’s
Association, which is controlled
by the R.A.S., which, of
course, conducts the world
championships at the Sydney
Royal Show.
American authorities have
promised to organise a tour
of the U.S. and Canada, with
an allowance of £2OO each to
the four axemen selected to
make the trip, tentatively
arranged for August. Names
of the Australian representa-
tives are expected to be an-
nounced after this coming
Sydney Royal.
Meanwhile, American autho-
rities will import samples of
Australian hardwood timber
so that their lumberjacks can
gain some experience on touah
blackbutt or stringybark.
There is no genuine haruwood
in America ; lumberjacks there
set their records on natural
softwoods, such as pine and
spruce, which offer little oppo-
sition to the big, double-bladed
axes they use for tree-felling.
At the same time it’s in-
tended to send some American
softwood logs here for our
axemen to practise on.
A MERICAN and Australian
wood-chopping methods
differ greatly. The Australian
competitive axeman cuts
through a block, or uses narrow
planks slotted into standing
logs in the tree-felling con-
tests ; the lumberjacks, with
their climbing-irons, shin to
the tops of the tall pines, lop
off the tops and all branches,
then proceed to fell the tall
trunks.
One of the more spectacular
contests in America and
Canada is felling a set number
of standing trees and then
sprinting to a finishing-line.
Naturally, the overseas axemen
are more interested in the
Australian tree-felling than in
our standing and underhand
chops.
Toughened on hardwood,
Australian axemen might well
hold their own on any timber
the Americans can produce.
Their short-handled, well-
balanced axes may be a match,
too, for the double-bladed
weapons the lumberjacks will
probably use in the world
championships.
'T'YPICAL of the men who
are likely to gain selection
in the Australian team is
solidly-built Keith Morrison,
of Queensland, a most versatile
axeman. Runner-up to world
champion Vic. Summers about
seven times, Morrison is a
member of a family of seven
brothers who, reared in the
densely-timbered Blue Moun-
tains district of New South
Wales, grew up with the feel
of an axe-handle in their strong
hands.
Morrison is also world re-
serve tree-felling champion,
and like Tom Kirk, of Mt.
Wilson, is one of Australia’s
best-known axemen. Like
Kirk, too, he has been so
heavily handicapped as the
result of consistent wins that
he has to give other axemen
a lead of many seconds. On
several occasions the early
starters were through their logs
before Kirk struck a blow!
Although most champion
axemen are big, powerfully
built men, the Edwards family
of four brothers, from Hamp-
ton (N.S.W.), are slightly built,
wiry and fast hitters. At the
recent Lithgow Festival of the
Valley celebrations, which
brought together 35 of the best
Australian axemen, Alf, Tom
and Bill Edwards filled the
three placings in the Din.
standing-block final. They cut
from eight, 12 and seven
seconds respectively, while
world champion Jim Lavis
started cutting from a handicap
of 35 seconds. Even so, 17st.
Lavis almost, caught the
brothers, who finished virtually
together.
There are many policemen
among the best axemen. Typi-
cal of these is 6ft. 4in. traffic
patrolman Les Slee, who cut
from a handicap of 24sec.
A country policeman fast
making a name for himself,
Dave Dickman, of Woodstock,
set an unofficial record for the
new event, the “hard-hitting”
championship, also staged at
Lithgow.
The record is held by Lavis,
who, cutting off scratch, won
the Lithgow final in 22 hits.
Dickman, though, had won his
heat with 16 hits.
Jim Blackburn, handicapper
for the Axemen’s Association,
explained that the hard-hitting
event had been introduced in
an effort to concentrate more
interest in woodchopping. Each
contestant takes his time and
tries to make every chop tell.
The one who cuts through his
log in the least number of hits,
less handicap, is the winner.
Lavis’s record is 20 chops for
a 12in. block. Lavis also holds
world records for the Din.
underhand, 29sec. ; 15in.
underhand, 38.65ec., and 16in.
underhand, 72sec.
NORMAN KING.


Ernie, with an appealing
look at Joe, again tried to get
away, but Bob’s arm was
immovable.
“And the time she poured
vinegar on a shovelful of hot
ashes and marched down the
passage with it—the night Alan
Craddock and me dropped in
for a yarn”
“Bob”
“And all the other lousy
things she’s done on you. D’you
still believe she poisoned that
dog? D’you still believe she
wrote that letter to Neville
Thomas’s wife? Neville was
the last friend that stuck to you
after you was married Iris
got him! How about the kids
—didn’t she do everything she
could to come between you?
And what about all the doctors’
bills you’ve paid in thirty years
■—and not a bloody thing
>vrong with her?
“Ruskin told you ten years
ago she was a neurotic. He
told you you was doing the
wrong thing getting a woman
to come in and do the washing.
Next thing we hear is you’re
doing it yourself and ,lris is
telling everybody down the
street you was too mean to
pay the five-bob. Stone the
crows, mate, you wasn’t
married —you was crucified f
You’ve fetched and carried for
her for thirty years—here,
drink-up—l don’t know who
I’m most crooked on ; Iris, or
you for putting up with her.”
Bob pushed the small glass
towards Ernie and wiped his
hair back from a brow moist
with perspiration. “Have a go
at him, Joe. I can’t do more.”
“No use getting upset over
it, Bob.”
“I 'can get upset if I like.
Ernie’s a good bloke; he’s
a mate of mine”
“Not so loud, Bob!” pleaded
Ernie.
“I’ll tell the bloody
world”
Joe emptied his glass and put
it down resolutely. “Come on.
Better be going, or you’ll be in
strife with Nell next.”
“That’ll be the day! I got
a good woman, but she knew
from the drop of the hat I was
no mug. First time I come
home shicker after we was
married—don’t push, Joe! I’m
all right, I know what I’m
doing”
TJTE was pretty drunk, but
-*- A with a bit of manoeuvring
they got him going into an old
car parked outside. Joe got in
behind the steering-wheel. Once
seated, Bob became easier to
handle, and by the time they
reached his home, only a mile
or so away, he seemed to have
forgotten Ernie and was
babbling happily about all the
things he was going to buy Nell
when the cheque came through.
They waited just long
enough to see the door of the
house open and a woman come
hurrying down the garden path,
then drove off with a long
joyous blast on the horn.
Ernie put his head out at
the side and looked backwards.
“He’s right,” he chuckled.
“Nell’s shaking her fist at us,
but she’s laughing.”
In the short run to Ernie’s
home neither of them spoke
for a few minutes. Then,
without taking his eyes off the
“Got a pipe-cleaner on you , Alt , old boy?"
road, Joe said: “Bob’s a hard-
doer, but he’s a good male.”
As if wondering what lay
behind the remark, Ernie
thought it over before reply-
ing. “It’s always easy to settle
another man’s troubles. 1
suppose I’m to blame myself.
I shouldn’t have talked so
much about Iris.”
“It wouldn’t have made any
difference, Ernie. I remember
when you used to try to cover-
up. Everybody knew. Iris was
torn and brought-up in this
district. She was making
enemies long before you met
her. There'd be a hell of a
laugh if you did go through.”
“That’s one of the things
that’s stopping me, Joe. She’s
up in years, and I’d be leaving
her without a friend in the
world. Even the kids”
“She brought it on herself.
They were all glad to get out.”
“I’ve been thinking how it
would be with her, stuck there
al] on her own”
“Nobody to pick at —what a
pity! ”
“How would it look for me?
After all these years, the minute
I got my hands on a bit of
money. . . After all, she stuck
to me.”
“Like a maggot sticks to a
dead cow! Anyway, it isn't
me. that’s advising you to leave
her.”
Silence fell between them,
and nothing more was said
until they pulled up in a quiet
street of new houses in behind
the Nepean Highway. Then,
waiting until Ernie was stand-
ing on the road and about to
close the door, Joe leaned over
and said in a voice full
of urgency:
“Remember what I told you:
Keep your guard up till you
get that money banked—and in
your name. We'll all go down
to the bank together as soon
as the cheque arrives.”
“I’ll be all right, Joe.”
“And hold on! ” Joe
grinned. “If you do go through
just send me your address. You
know my form! ”
The car drove off and, with
the very upright, careful, jerky
walk of a man who knows he
is carrying a little too much
drink but is determined not to
shov/ it, Ernie went in by a
low iron gate and along a
concrete path bordered with
old-fashioned picotees.
pVERYTHING was clean
and well-kept. There was
nothing more than a little dust
on his shoes, but at the back
of the house he lingered for
a good half-minute wiping his
feet on a coir mat, at the same
time listening for sounds
within the house and glancing
around to see if there was any-
one in the garden.
There was neither sound nor
movement, and after a bit of
nervous fiddling with belt, hair,
and shirt-neck, he opened the
door, went through an enclosed
veranda, and entered the
kitchen.
An eager smile had come
over his face, but it flickered
immediately at sight of the
woman waiting for him, like
the flame of a candle caught in
a sudden draught.
She was sitting on the far
s;de of the table, facing the
door, and doing absolutely
nothing just waiting. A
woman of about his own age,
nicely-groomed, fresh floral
frock under a white apron,
greying hair neatly combed,
even a touch of powder. But
all that registered with Ernie
was the bitter, accusing face,
the nervously-twitching lips,
the wrinkled, pink hands tightly
clenched on the white table-
cloth. Everything on the table
bread-and-butter, sah-and-
pepper, eating-utensils was
ostentatiously concentrated in
a place for one, opposite her.
“I sot news for you, Iris,”
he said swiftly. “Big news.”
She stood up, turning heavily
to draw his attention to the
clock on the mantelpiece. “And
rny God, you'd need to have
b ; s news! Just look at the
time, and me sitting here”
n isn’t six yet”
“What time am I supposed to
expect you in?”
“Iris, l’ye got something to
tell vou”
“You can save your breath.
You knew I wanted to go out
tonight. Now, didn’t you?”
“Fair go! You never said a
word”
“The last thing I said when
you brought my cup of tea in
this morning was: I think I’ll
go to the flicks tonight if 1 feel
well enough.”
“I don’t remember.”
“No, because you weren’t
interested, that’s why. It never
made any difference to you
whether I ever went out or not.
Or whether J ever come
back”


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
“Iris, wait till I tell you”——
“I’ve waited long enough.”
C|HE was deliberately work-
ing herself up, turning
aimlessly back and forth in
the narrow space between table
and stove, fingering her hair,
her lips, the tawdry plastic
brooch below her throat,
smoothing imaginary creases
out of her frock and the
immaculate tablecloth.
“You’ve been drinking
again.”
“Again—break it down! I
had a few”
“How would you like it if
I went out and had a few just
when you were coming in for
your tea? Eh, how would you
like it? Down at that stinking
pub, and me sitting here not
knowing what had -become of
you.”
The absurdity of this got the
better for a moment even of
his anxiety to mollify her. He
had taken off his coat and was
hanging it behind the door. She
caught the scornful smile
before his back was fully
turned. It infuriated her.
“My God, you’re laughing
at me! And me just thinking
of ringing the police, I thought
something had happened to
you. Sitting here worrying
myself sick, and you standing
down there calmly filling your-
self up with beer! Where’d you
get the money from, anyway?
You told me the other
night”
“Iris” Mention of
money impelled him to make
a final effort to get his big
news out —“there’s enough
money in this house”
“Enough money for us to
be happy on! ”
She faced him, shaking with
rage, her arms, with clenched
fists, jerking at her sides.
“I could scream every time
you tell me that. We’ve got
lots to be thankful for. . .
Look at other people. . . Life’s
what you make it. . . I’m sick
of hearing you. What have I
got to be happy about? What
have I ever had to be thankful
for?”
Raising one hand, he passed
it slowly across his despairingly-
closed eyes, tottered, and
regained balance only by seiz-
ing the edge of the table.
“You’re that drunk you can
hardly stand,” she said with
vindictive triumph. “What’re
you going to do —wash first?”
“I had a shower before I
left work,” he said, with eyes
still closed.
“You’d better sit down and
see if you can still eat it then.
It’s all dried-up. I did the best
1 could with it. I had to have
mine.”
CTdE was at the oven as she
said this, and when she
had placed his dinner on the
table she stood watching him
with an expression which was
an odd mixture of cunning,
curiosity, and eagerness.
Without a word he sat down,
picked up knife and fork, and
—stared at his plate.
He looked up, catching a
malicious smile just as it
vanished.
“I’ll say it’s all dried-up,” he
said quietly.
“It wasn’t all dried-up an
hour ago when I was expecting
you. Mine was all right.”
“You didn’t have to
dehydrate mine.”
His calmness had the effect
of provoking her into a fresh
outburst.
“You talk as if I’d done it
deliberately! ” Her voice broke
with a realism born of long
practice. “What’s the good of
me ever trying to please you?
If it wasn’t ready to put into
your mouth the mipute you
w'alked in you’d glare at me as
if I was something the cat
dragged in.”
His hands came up in silent
protest, but she Went on, try-
ing hard, as he well knew, to
get the tears to come:
“I’d have been thought more
of if I was like some women
I know, gallivanting around—
you wouldn’t aare if I was
dying as long as I crawled out
to get a feed ready for you.
You haven’t even asked me
how I W£S. You knew I was
sick this morning when you
went out. I had to take a
whole bottle of aspirin just to
keep going. And what do I
get for it? Snarls and dirty
looks because your dinner’s a
bit dried up hours after it was
ready to sit down to. God help
me, it’s more than flesh and
blood can stand! I ought to
do away with myself, perhaps
you’d be happy then. I will,
too, one of these days. I’ll
go out of my mind if I don’t
get out of this house”
Her voice ended on a note
of sobbing hysteria. She went
through to the other end of
the house with all the flurry
of whirling skirts and banging
doors she could make, and he
kept quite still, listening to
the continued commotion in
the bedroom.
When, in a few minutes, she
came back, he heard her move
into a position at the other
side of the table, and, after a
silence broken only by the
ticking of the clock, say in one
of those fantastic changes of
humor of which only the
chronic neurotic is capable:
“Anyway, what was the big
news you were talking about?”
“It doesn’t matter,” he
replied without looking at her.
“I’ll tell you in the morning.”
C<HE was dressed for the
street, hat, light overcoat,
handbag.
“It couldn’t have been very
much,” she said. “Anyway, I
won’t be here in the morning.”
Wrenching open her bag,
she pulled out a handkerchief
—tears had come at lagt.
“I’ve got no idea where I’ll
be in the morning. Try the
Morgue if you can’t find me
anywhere else that’s if you
bother to look for me at all.”
She stopped dabbing her
eyes long enough to point a
shaking finger at him.
“And mind you this, Ernie
Caslaw —don’t think you’ll get
away with it. Coming in drunk
and abusing me just because
your dinner was a bit dried-up.
I’ll Tell them. I’ll let every-
body know, if it’s the last thing
I do on this earth. Wait till
they hear about this down at
your precious Boys’ Club.
I’m going out and I’m never
coming back. You can get the
police to look for me for a
change. And I hope ... I
hope . . . you’ll ... he happy
. . . without me! ”
The street-door clashed and
he remained still for some time,
thinking deeply, and glancing
more than once at the clock,
which showed a quarter-past-
six.
Then, wearing a grim smile,
a smile that would have
delighted Bob, he went through
to the bedroom* took down a
suitcase from the top of the
wardrobe, blew the dust off it,
and began to pack.
THE RABBITERS
How echo up the hollow ways their cries,
Leanly as straining through a long time,
As if the gritted runnels of the chasms ■
Were fingering speech from an ancient tome.
The dry snake on a rock, sunning at home,
Does not heed how air can deliver
This latest news from the great asp, time,
But feels his present will glide for ever
And that strange voices looming will subside
Down the chasm and leave the world right
For rocks and snakes, warm sun and the fat toad
Hopping, easy in its greed and smooth to the throat.
The stick spun out of the sky with a crack
And on the shoulders of the rock the snake
Writhed through a door of pain and plunged back
To the dream-time in the primeval brake.
And sound rang loud and the chasm trembled,
Its granules jarred as from thunder of sea,
As it called to friends and all assembled
“Here, a brace of rabbits and a snake for tea.”
VICTORIA.
NOEL MACAINSH.


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
REPORT ON MERRINDALE
TN November, 1954, Merrin-
A dale, the 1.C.1.A.N.Z.
biological-research station at
Croydon (Vic.), was officially
opened by Dr. Alexander
Fleck, chairman of the parent-
company in England, before
what can fairly be described as
a brilliant company of poli-
ticians, departmental heads,
professors—in fact, just about
everyone who represented any-
thing in organised agriculture-
in circumstances of appropriate
splendor.
Merrindale was the first
research-station- of its kind to
be established in Australia by
a commercial concern, and
therefore had a national signi-
ficance. Some distinguished
speakers rather emphasised the
national importance, and the
nobility of research in general,
to a point where there was
a danger of forgetting that
1.C.1.A.N.Z. was a commercial
concern primarily concerned
with manufacturing and selling
its products. But this, in the
festive atmosphere, was per-
fectly understandable.
Agricultural journalists from
It has been stated
that within ten years
the U.S.A. will be im-
porting meat. This
should open up a vast
new market for Aus-
tralian-grown lamb
and veal. The use of
Elastrator Rubber
Rings for marking
results in better car-
cases for export
because set-back aad
loss of condition are
minimised. When
carried out correctly
rubber ring marking
of calves does not
eliminate cod fat.
every State in the Common-
wealth except Western Aus-
tralia were present and had
been thoroughly briefed on
what went on at the experiment-
station, what was planned for
the future, and, in discussions
and inspections spread over
several days, had been given
interesting glimpses into the
background of research. The
culmination of all this was a
series of talks by I.C.I.A.N.Z.
specialists.
The experiment of bringing
together a representative group
of agricultural journalists from
different States and talking to
them about research on an
adult level, without the usual
gimmicks of salesmanship, went
down very well; although, of
course, it may be claimed that
this sort of institutional pub-
licity is itself a gimmick, and
a very effective one.
In any case, it went down,
and the idea somehow grew
that the meeting would become
an annual one —a sort of
national agricultural sym-
p o s i u m, with its basis
broadened by guest-speakers of
appropriate standing; from
C.S.I.R.O., perhaps, or from
one or more of the universities
or Departments of Agriculture,
or even from other interested
firms.
No promises were made on
this score, but ideas are
tenacious and often hard to
trace to their beginnings. This
one, anyway, had an astonish-
ing vitality, and has been
revived now and again since ;
which seems to indicate that
there is a need for something
of the sort in the Australian
scene. Although—apart from
having, in a sense, pointed the
way—there is really no reason
why I.C.I.A.N.Z. should stand
the expense of such a large-
minded project.
A recent visit to Merrindale
by newspapermen was pretty
much the recipe as before:
from an individual point of
view, a very agreeable recipe ;
and, of course, after two-and-
a-half years, there was a good
deal of a technical nature to be
discussed. But the speakers, all
I.C.I.A.N.Z. men, stuck pretty
closely to what was happening
at Merrindale and at D’Aguilar,
50 miles north of Brisbane,
where an experimental station
was set up last year to study
cattle-tick.
B. A. Forsyth, the senior
veterinary officer at Merrindale,
outlined what had been done
there in his department. A
preparation for treatment of
footrot in sheep, and a new
sheep-dip, seem to be the two
most important developments.
The first, “cetafoot,” is an
alcoholic solution of cetrimide,
a well-known disinfectant and
detergent. Its value for the
treatment of footrot was dis-
covered when small amounts
“ But don't y' feel the need for HUMAN companionship
sometimes?"
were added to another new
1.C.1. germicide, “hibitane,” to
increase the penetration of this
chemical to diseased tissues. It
was found that whereas 10 per
cent, solutions of hibitane cured
only a small number of cases
of footrot, the addition of
1 per cent, cetrimide sent the
percentage of cures up.
Stronger solutions of cetri-
mide, without hibitane, were
tested in the pens, with good
results, then the stuff was tested
in two small field-experiments
on near-by properties. On the
first property, a solution of
cetrimide in water was used,
but it was found that this
frothed excessively and gave no
control of bleeding. On the
second property, cetrimide was
dissolved in alcohol, and this
was satisfactory. “In both
experiments the rate of cure by
a single experiment was high.”
Then large-scale field-trials
in Victoria and New South
Wales. In these cetafoot was
compared with other recog-
nised curatives, such as form-
alin and chloramphenicol
(Chloromycetin).
“These trials were carried
out under most unfavorable
conditions, in midwinter, the
treated sheep being grazed on
wet pastures and, in some
cases, returned to infected
paddocks, but we found that
cetafoot gave very good results.
It was vastly superior to a
single treatment with formalin
and equally as effective as
chloramphenicol.”
The most effective treatment
for individual infected feet up
till then had been a chloram-
phenicol tincture, but this was
expensive—around Is. a foot.
Cetafoot will cost about Id.
a foot.
“The idea of a foot-paint is
not new, and we haven’t done
away with the necessity for par-
ing all diseased tissue,” For-
syth said. “If a diseased foot
isn’t adequately pared, ceta-
foot, like all other footrot cura-
tives, will be of little value.
But, provided this has been
done properly, the cure-rate of
a single application of cetafoot
should be in the'order of eighty
per cent.”
Miss Marion Scott, a Mer-
rindale biologist, and two
chemists working at the central
research laboratory, Martin
Grumach and Dave Pryor, are
largely responsible for the de-
velopment of a new dieldrin
sheep-dip. A major problem
was to reduce “stripping”—
dieldrin, like other newer .in-
secticides, strips easily—and
the mechanism of stripping
was studied in the laboratory.
Samples of wool were im-


1
■
m"'
i
WIIIIMW
9
&
*aj*
w^i't
»«.
THE SENSATIONAL NEW. , Jti ■*&&**. » ,»• >**
/
/
/
IMPROVED
HYDRAULICS
2 STAGE
CLUTCHING'farm
VARIABLE PRIV£{
P.T.Q.
6 FORWARD
SPEEDS 2 REVERSE
Plus all the other features you ever wanted
ALL IN ONE MIGHTY TRACTOR
PETROL - KEROSENE - DIESEL MODELS
For full illustrated literature, prices, etc., on the New *3s’ see your
Local Dealer —or contact
BRITISH TRACTOR & IMPLEMENTS
PTY. LTD.
156-158 Sydney Street, New Farm, Brisbane Phone LWIOII.
mersed in test formulations,
which were then analysed for
their insecticidal content, and
the loss of concentration of
each preparation measured.
The effect of particle-size was
watched, and the efficiency of
wetting-agents and dispersers
tested ; apd so on, with com-
plementary tests at Merrindale,
for effects on insects and sheep
—a lengthy process.
Finally, after all compari-
sons and experiments, it was
decided that the best formula-
tion to minimise stripping and
yet retain efficiency of the dip
was a micronised dispersible
powder—that is, a powder
ground down to a particle-size
of less than one-hundredth of
a millimetre.
This formulation was tested
in the field in Queensland. It
behaved extremely well, except
that it tended to cake in the
tin and was difficult to mix. So
these problems had to be solved.
When they had a preparation
that didn’t cake, it was tested
in the field, in Queensland, New
South Wales, and Victoria.
After some 30,000 sheep had
been dipped, they were satis-
fied. The formulation, known
as I-diel, will be on the market
soon.
Forsyth went on to talk
about other veterinary pro-
blems being studied at Merrin-
dale. Itch-mite —“This para-
site, which lives just under the
external layers of the skin, is
a very difficult parasite to com-
bat. No insecticide yet tested
has shown any great promise,
except a one per cent, lime-
sulphur dip, which is the
recommended treatment.”
Worms in cattle —“Pheno-
thiazine, which is the most
widely used anthelmintic for
calves, is recognised as not
being effective for the control
of several of the more im-
portant parasite species.
Attempts have been made to
find a more efficient anthel-
mintic, but to date these have
been unfruitful.”
Sheep-blowfly—“ Many ex-
periments with insecticides for
the prevention of strike have
been carried out. Diazinon has
been used in most of these ex-
periments, and has given us
very good results, and conse-
quently the company has re-
leased a formulation called
“diazide” for sale. The results
with diazinon were, however,
not so very much better than
those we obtained with
dieldrin, which in the majority
of cases should give sufficiaat
protection to tide a grazier over
a difficult period. Dieldrin also
has a decided cost advantage
over diazinon.”
But the veterinary section is,
after all, only one of several at
Merrindale. B. S. Janes, the
senior mycologist, explained
that the work of his department
had proceeded along three
main lines: improving the
formulations of existing fungi-
cides, finding further uses for
existing fungicides, and look-
ing for new fungicides:
The fungicide formulations pro-
duced by 1.C.1.A.N.Z. and other
companies are highly effective, pro-
vided they are used wisely. How-
ever, the ideal has still to be
achieved. You can best understand
this statement by recalling what a
fungicide has to do. Most
fungicides are protective: after
application, the layer of fungicide
acts as a toxic-barrier towards
spores of fungi, and is intended to
kill them before their infection-
threads can penetrate the plant and
cause disease.
As soon as the fungicide-particles
have been sprayed on foliage they
are subject to weathering by wind,
rain, and the sun, which gradually
wear away the fungicide, and
eventually reduce it to an ineffective
concentration, so that a further
application is necessary.
In this respect the fungicide can
be likened to an outdoor house-
paint. But the fungicide has a more
difficult job because it is applied to
a living surface, which grows and
expands and tends to dislodge it.
So anything we can do to make a
fungicide-resist these factors, last
longer, and be applied less often, is
worth while.
We have shown that our
“cuprox,” which contains copper-
oxychloride, is more effective and
lasts longer if it is mioronised, that
is, if its particle-size is considerably
reduced by passing it through a
special mill. For physical'reasons,
the very fine particles adhere more
strongly to. foliage than coarse ones,
and are more resistant to weather-
ing. Moreover, there is much better
distribution of the fungicide on
leaves, and thereby more chance
that a fungal-spore alighting on a


Russion Comfrey
1. Gives the world’s heaviest fodder
yield (over 100 tons an acre in
6-8 cuts each year!).
2. Has the highest protein of any
crop in the world having reached
36.68% protein.
3. Produces heavy cuts through
dry Summer conditions as well
as in Spring and Autumn.
4. Persists for up to 40 years with-
out deteriorating and yields up
to one ton per day from only
la acres.
5. Is preferred by cows and poultry
to grass.
6. Stops scouring, prevents and
cures digestive troubles in stock
and poultry.
7. Boosts Summer milk and is
ready early to prevent milk
decline.
8. Is relished also by other live-
stock, including horses, sheep,
pigs and goats.
9. Is very high in minerals and
vitamins.
10. Is good human food also and
is useful in treatment of gastric
and duodenal ulcers.
11. Has no insect pests, and. rabbits
will not touch it.
Autumn planting gives best
results. Write for free booklet
giving story of first farm experi-
ments with Russian Comfrey ever
to be carried out in Australia.
Boots available from farm-tested
plants and arrival in fresh con-
dition guaranteed by pioneer
grower
W. F. SAVAGE,
RED HILL SOUTH, VICTORIA.
Phone: RHS 207.
Best
Mineral
Supplement
p
's'
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick,
OS
CM
5 1t»
©o*
BOH*
bS‘A
2
sterilised
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CAtCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulart gladly imp pH ad—
Writ, te DAVIS GELATINE: 6JO la KSJ.
SYDNEY • S.P.O Bob 4058. MELBOURNE • 6PO.
to. H2F. ADELAIDE • 6AO. Bob ISBK. BRISBANE
• GAO Bob 588. BERTH
FROM
LEADING STOCK
& STATION AGENTS
leaf will be contacted by a particle
of the fungicide.
To put the position in a nut-
shell, we have shown that micro-
nised cuprox is at least twice as
effective as old cuprox. As a result
of this we have replaced old
cuprox with micronised. cuprox
with confidence, and now recom-
mend that 41b. of the latter
be used instead of the customary
51b. of the former per hundred
gallons.
On further use for existing
fungicides, Janes gave two
examples:
First, we recently began an
experiment at the Shepparton Can-
nery, where we dipped 200 lug-
boxes in several concentrations of
sodium-orthophenyl-phenate in an
endeavor to protect them against
wood-rotting fungi, which gradu-
ally ruin such boxes when they are
stored out-of-doors. Several
hundred thousand boxes worth
8a 6d. each are involved. We have
tiied sodium-orthophenyl-phenate
because it is a highly effective
fungicide, and will know whether it
will be of use in this particular field
when we inspect the boxes in about
a year’s time.
Secondly, I mentioned that our
fungicides are highly "effective if
used wisely. Unfortunately, through
our lack of knowledge of the
habits and time of occurrence of
many fungi, we are not certain
what is the best time to apply our
fungicides. Consequently, some of
our work has been on the timing of
sprays. In particular, we have
followed up the work of the Tas-
manian Department of Agriculture
on apricots which shows that
brown-rot can be more effectively
controlled by extra sprays around
blossom-time. We have tried to
determine whether this also holds in
the Goulburn Valley, for peaches as
well as apricots. So far we can-
not commit ourselves, and further
experiments are necessary. Unfor-
tunately, many of the trees in our
experiments were lost in the floods,
and the work will have to be
repeated.
Regarding the search for
new fungicides, one that will
control blue-mould in tobacco
is high on the priority-list.
“Briefly, blue-mould costs the
tobacco-industry hundreds of
thousands of pounds a year,
and none of the present fungi-
cides gives really effective
control in the field. To date
we have examined a hundred
new chemicals in the labora-
tory. In this search we have
found a class of chemicals
active against blue-mould, and
shall submit these to field-trial
next season.”
Again, the testing in Aus-
tralia of chemicals already
tried, and found promising, by
1.C.1. in England: “In such
cases we can omit the
laboratory-tests'and go straight
into the field. During this
season we are trying some of
these chemicals against apple
black-spot. In about six weeks’
time we shall make spot-counts
on the fruit, and shall then
know whether we have a
promising spot-fungicide to try-
out in other apple areas next
season.”
The speaker said he was
“very much aware” of the
many diseases for which satis-
factory controls are lacking:
“Brown-rot is a case in point.
We have good brown-rot
fungicides which still do not
give adequate protection against
brown-rot in prolonged bad
weather, partly because we
don’t know the best time to
apply them. We have fungi-
cides effective for other
diseases, but so far their appli-
cation is uneconomic. Wheat-
rust is a good example: we
can control it, but the cost
is too great.”
A word, then, about the
search for systemic fungicides,
which could combat deep-seated
diseases by moving through the
sap as penicillin, for instance,
moves through the human
bloodstream.
B. D. Robinson, the senior
botanist, on his subject—a big
one, with special emphasis on
the pre-emergence weedicides,
about which a good deal has
been written of late. And
B. A. B. Edwards, the senior
entomologist, on his the
entomology section at Merrin-
dale has only been in operation
a year, and results from the
first field-trials were coming in.
F. J. D. Thomas, who is in
charge of Merrindale research-
station, covered the field
generally. A few extracts from
a long, and very interesting,
talk:
Toxicity: It is important for the
public to be given a balanced view
on toxicity problems—not, as has
happened in the past in America,
wild, unfounded suggestions that
D.D.T. and other pesticides caused
anaemia, insanity, polio, pneumonia,
and other improbable diseases. It
has been well said that what is
important is not the toxicity of a
compound, that is, its capacity for
causing injury, but the hazard of
handling it, that is, the possibility
that such an injury will actually
occur. Consider the high “toxicity”
of electricity, and the negligible
hazard of using it in the home
because of developed ways of
handling it . . .
Fashions in chemicals: One might
instance blowfly-dressings, where
B.H.C. does cheaply all that a dress-
mg can be required to do—kill and
expel the maggots, and enable heal-
ing to take place without re-strike.
That is all a dressing can do, and
B.H.C. does it, yet B.H.C. is prob-
ably hardly used as a dressing today.
It has been replaced by aldrin, by
dieldrin, and more recently by
diazinon, all of which can also
make perfectly efficient dressings,
but with really no advantages, for
this purpose, over B.H.C. It is
difficult to see that anybody really
benefits from duplication of this
sort. We think the farmer is entitled
to ask—and should be encouraged
to ask, with any new pesticide—
How is this an advance? What
experimental proof have you that
it will do what yod claim—or am 1
expected to do the experimental
work for you?
Application of sprays: The
development of new chemicals may
influence the type of application
possible. Thus automatic drive-
through machines may give
adequate control of codling-moth
with D.D.T., while lead-arsenate
applied similarly might well be
ineffective. Similarly in the animal
field, dieldrin, with its remarkable
affinity for wool, probably makes
up for some deficiencies in applica-
lion which older chemicals could
not tolerate.
Concentrate-sprayers: These, of
course, apply far less water per acre
than conventional sprayers. There
i r still controversy as to whether the
same amount of pesticide is needed
per acre. One school maintains that
the weight of chemical applied per
acre should be kept constant, what-
ever the volume of liquid applied,
while another school feels that more
efficient use of chemical is possible
it the lower rates of application,
and hence less can be used.
It is important to appreciate that
there are at least three levels of
spray-application to consider in
orchard work, each with its own
problems. Firstly, there is the
normal high-volume, ranging from,
say, two thousand gallons per acre
lor citrus, down to two hundred or
three hundred gallons per acre. Next
is the so-called concmtiate-sprayivg,
ranging down from, say, eighty
gallons. However, once this is
reduced to about twenty-five gallons
per acre, the normal hydraulic
machinery has reached its limit.
At lower gallonages droplet-size
needs to be so small, with the drops
carried in a large volume of air,
that quite different types of
machinery are needed. The limit with
or.thodox-spray chemicals seems to
have been reached with a machine
in England which applies three
gallons of neat lime-sulphur per
acre.
Much work has been done on
particle-size, and evidence is avail-
able suggesting that very small
particles of 10 to 40 microns
diameter are needed to get thorough
coverage when air-currents are relied
on to secure penetration.
These highly-concentrated sprays
begin to approach dusts in some
lespects, and there have been
interesting developments in pesticide-
dust application, too. Some
Michigan workers have claimed that
by giving the dust-particles a high
electrical charge, by means of a
specially-designed nozzle, the dusts
adhere much better to the foliage.
Forecasting: Another interesting
development, potentially of great
value to the growers. Not only does
it enable them to deal with the
forecast outbreak, it means they deal
with it more efficiently, and waste
less time and money on unnecessary
sprays. The development of the
Mills system of forecasting apple-
scab has been widely publicised, and
it has worked well in some areas,
although in other areas more work


WOOL-STOCK
INSURANCE *.
!> MERCHANDISE
f%: FINANCE' '' 'mm
ffrM
; •-
life
- I
■ MJ JL
,/-v
; *
■
m
ant,V:ffiSoSS
528
*B£3
..
m
m
mi
mss.
jSj
•***<
.«Ca>
V"
ry
C
m
*w/^
seems needed to apply it adequately.
Jn America they are already success-
fully forecasting a number of other
plant-diseases, including blue-mould
of tobacco, downy-miidew of Lima-
beans, and late blight of tomato.
Some of these forecasts show an
eighty-five per cent, accuracy, which
as pretty good.
Most of the new pesticides
under development, Thomas
said, could be grouped under
two headings—the new phos-
phorus-compounds and new
antibiotics. Some of the
material on these important
developments will be used in
a later article.
Taken all round, the .talks
were impressive and valuable.
Which raises the question of
what could be done if some-
thing of the kind were
attempted on a larger scale. It
is common complaint among
research-workers that their
findings take a long time to
seep through to the mass of
people to whom they will be
most useful.
C.-5.1.R.0. and the State
Departments of Agriculture
maintain extension - workers,
publish journals, and also issue
regular press-releases, in order
to spread news of their work.
All these methods are valuable,
but one would like to see them
supplemented occasionally by
something like the Merrindale
talks. If the mass of research
done by C.5.1.R.0., for
instance, were presented in
some such orderly manner, with
opportunity for free discussion,
a good deal would be
achieved in disseminating useful
information.
Poor Germination
“Booramoo”: When a
wheat-crop comes up looking
more like the sparse covering
on a balding human heao than
the hairs on a cat’s back, some-
thing has gone wrong at seed-
ing-time.
The most common trouble is
moulding in the soil when
there has not been, enough
moisture to keep the seed
moving after it has made its
initial start underground. On
the other hand, too much
moisture can cause the seed to
burst and become worthless.
A blocked combine-tube, or
hoe full of clay, causes an un-
sightly miss in the crop, and a
piece of straw across the tube
can cause the seed to dribble
into the ground instead of
flowing normally.
Mice can play havoc with
seed in the ground, and birds,
especially magpies, often spend
a lot of time picking young
plants out of the crop.
One crop I saw came up
looking like a draughtboard,
with regular squares of crop
and bare space. The reason:
A partly-stripped driving-cog
in the combine which the
tractor-driver, sowing at night,
didn’t notice.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(28/3/’57)
The north and south coasts of Queensland should
receive heavy rains during April, with good falls in the
west and north-west, but poor elsewhere, and light to
moderate on the Darling Downs. Apart from fairly heavy
rains in the south-west, there is likely to be only moderate
rains in May.
Good rains likely in most of N.S.W. during April, with
the heaviest falls on the coastal areas; nevertheless, this
will depend to a large extent on whether the cyclone which
is indicated early in the month eventuates. Good rains
should continue in May, with heavy falls on the north coast.
Victoria should be confined to light rains, below
normal, during April, apart from some moderate falls in
part of the north-east, east central and west coast. General
rains should be received during May.
Apart from some good falls in the upper north, South
Australia may experience only light to moderate rains
during April, with excellent rains in May; however, one
cycle indicates no worth-while rains until July.
Western Australia is likely to have poor rainfall during
April, apart from some good falls on the lower south coast.
Very heavy rains should occur in most of the State during
May.
LENNOX WALKER.
Rabbits and Ragwort
y ‘G. K.”: The claim of
north - western Tasmanian
farmers “that ragwort had in
the past been kept in check
by the rabbits” (B. 13/3/’57)
is a very startling one to this
Victorian cocky.
I’ve heard claims that sheep
eat ragwort—my experience is
that grown sheep won’t touch
the_ stinking stuff. Lambs are
different ; for some reason they
eat the flowers. As for the
rab bil- he ringbarked the
apple-trees, dug down for the
spuds, scratched the drill-rows
for new-sown oats, ate the
first shoots of oats in fact,
tackled everything but the
mortgage and the ragwort,
Ive seen ragwort growing
unchecked in a paddock where
I poisoned 1250 rabbits on 80
acres - _
Myxomatosis has changed
all that. It is claimed that the
myxomatosis strains are be-
coming weak ; or the rabbits
are becoming immune. There
may be some spots where
either of these ' factors may
apply for a time, but, in my
opinion, time will cancel-out.
Fresh strains of myxomatosis
will prevent rabbits reaching
plague-proportions again.
Farm Hints
“W.”: Never set a hen that
is in any way unhealthy ; she
won’t last the 21 days of
tedious hatching. Comb and
wattles should be rosy-red,
eyes bright and alert. The
plumage should have a soft
sheen, without any sign of
diarrhoea-stains.
“Big Billy”: With dense
pasture, the usual dressings of
D.D.T. and malathion will not
give control of lucerne-flea and
red-legged earth-mite, because
of the protection given by the
top leaves. Pressure should be
increased to ensure a satisfac-
tory penetration.
“Dema”: It is a bad habit
not to dip lambs when the ewes
are dipped, or leave out killers,
odd rams and stragglers. The
safest way is to do all the sheep
on the property at the one time,
and thus not leave a source of
re-infestation. Dipping short-
woolled sheep is most effective,
allowing a maximum of
penetration, but don’t dip until
shearing-cuts have healed.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
pen-mates at Pilliga. How y’
been doing?”
“Oh, not too bad, Nugget,
not too bad. Still ringing a
few, and getting one or two
easy ones,” says Bronco in
return.
“By crackey, I didn’t expect
to see you down this way,
Bronco. Are you going to give
’em a fly here?” questions
Nugget.
“My jolly word,” declares
Bronco. “What are they shear-
ing like?”
“Well,” hesitates Nugget,
“well—l guess if you like big,
red-eyed, rough wethers these
will suit you down to the
ground.”
“What?” barks Bronco.
“Aren’t they too good, then?”
“Good ain’t the word,”
snorts Nugget. “Every one a
snob and a cobbler; full
brothers, all of them, to those
blasted Wieringa wethers we
shore at Cyril’s that time.”
“Hell,” spits Bronco.
“They’re not that bad, are
they?”
“Just about,” assures Nugget.
“Anyway, you’ve only got to
look at the bastards to pick
’em for what they are.”
Over Bronco goes to the
catching - pens and steps
through one of the swinging
gates. He sees for himself that
the sheep are even worse than
the big rough-’uns he’d left
behind in the Hill corner.
“Crikey,” he mutters in
awe, and goes out to Nugget.
“Well, what do you reckon?”
asks Nugget.
“Gaw, a man’d never side-
step the snobs in that lot, not
even if he was shearing pen-
mates with some hard-working
tiger who couldn’t pick a bare-
belly from a Bungaree ram.
They’re bad, ain’t they?”
“My bloody oath they’re
bad, and if it wasn’t for the
rest of the run and the other
sheds we’ve got lined up I’d’ve
never signed-on. Anyway,
there’s no need for you to slave
into the blasted animals. As
far as I know the whole damn’
lot are wethers, so you might
just as well tell the boss you
aren’t staying.”
“I can’t, though,” confesses
Bronco. “I’ve already signed-
on.”
“More bloody fool you,”
says Nugget callously. “Looks
like you’re in it with the rest
of us.”
“No, by hell I’m not,” blurts
out Bronco. “You jokers have
got a reason for staying on,
but I’ve got no run to follow-
up from here. There must be
a hundred sheds shearing cross-
breds now, and that’s what I
come down from the Hill to
shear, and, by cripes, that’s
what I’m going to shear.”
“That’s all very well,” agrees
Nugget, “but how’re you going
to get out of it?”
“Don’t- know,” admits
Bronco, “but I’ll work me head
a bit and think of something.
At least none of these jokers
know me, so keep your lips
together and say nothing.”
And he nods to Nugget and
goes down to the end stand,
which is always kept vacant for
a doubtful arrival.
TTE’S thinking very hard as
he loads up and sets his
stand, and his face is all
screwed up with the effort as
he pulls into gear just to run
his machine and get a bit of
the feel of it.
However, he must have been
bursting with some idea, for
when the bell goes he dives into
the pen and drags out a fair
lump of a hogget. But, then,
instead of sitting the sheep on
the floor with the head and
front-legs tucked behind his
arm, he stands the sheep’s head
down in between his mocca-
sins, and, holding the rump
into his belly and the hindlegs
under his arm, he picks up his
bog-eye, pulls on the tumbling
tommy and drives the roaring
machine down towards the
brisket.
Naturally the hogget kicks
like a roped brumby, and good
shearer though Bronco is, he’s
got his work cut out just hold-
ing on. Kicking sheep are
always hard to shear, but if
you’ve got a kicking one
upside-down and you are try-
ing to open the belly-wool the
wrong way as Bronco is, then
you’ve really got your hands full.
At all events, while Bronco
is swearing and struggling and
the sheep’s playing larry-dooley
and the handpiece is bucking
and smoking in his hand, who
should arrive on the scene but
old Faggotter.
One look is sufficient to put
him in top-gear without using
his clutch, and he’s yelling and
thumping at Bronco before the
big feller has time to pull out
of gear.
“What?” Bronco asks with-
out even looking up and while
still pretending to shear the
sheep.
“I said, ‘Stop the machine,’ ”
yells Faggotter, “and be bloody
quick about it.”
And he dodges the back-joint
by a whisker as it comes swing-
ing round in a wide arc.
“What’s up?” asks Bronco,
puzzled, and trying to grab his
hat as a hindleg catches it and
sends it spinning down the
board.
“Hang ’em up,” screams
Faggotter, as Bronco knocks
his stand and sends a tin of
water and a string of cutters
crashing to the floor.
“You’re finished!” he
screams again as Bronco
swings the handpiece back and
misses his face by inches.
Genuinely frightened, Fag-
gotter makes a grab for the
swinging cord and pulls Bronco
out of gear.
The big feller stares in seem-
ing stupefaction at the now-
lifeless handpiece in his hand,
but Faggotter steps in and
starts to give him the rough
end of his tongue.
“Right-oh, you,” he pants,
“the quicker you get off this
place the better it’ll be for
yourself. You told me you
could shear and any mug can
see you’ve never had a hand-
piece in your hand in your
life. Can’t shear, not even an
idea how to go about it or
how to hold the sheep, and
you’re not going to learn on
my flock. Now hurry up and
pack your things and get off
the board.”
“But what about my con-
tract?” argues Bronco. “I’ve
got a contract same as you.”
“Yes,” snarls Faggotter, “but
it ain’t worth a spit in hell to
you.”
“Why not?” demands
Bronco truculently.
“Because there’s a clause in
it that says sheep must be
shorn in an efficient and work-
manlike manner, and if your
shearing is considered work-
manlike and efficient, then you
must be a damned sight better
on the rest of the sheep than
you are on the belly. So don’t
waste my time, just get down
and get your swag rolled.”
And Faggotter, feeling justi-
fied, walks up the other end
of the board.
Bronco sighs and lets his
sheep back into the pen and
starts to pack his tools. He
catches Nugget’s eye and gives
him a wink and a bit of a grin
and stashes all his stuff and
starts to walk off the board.
He’s only taken a few steps
when he notices a young learner
in a power of strife, trying to
open-up the neck-wool on an
oversized wether.
SUDDENLY inspired, he
drops his tools, pulls the lad
out of gear, steps across the
sheep and picks up the hand-
piece. As he pulls her in he
lets out a “Hurroo” that jerks
Faggotter’s head around like
that of a lassoed calf.
“This’s the way the guns do
it in the Top Corner,” Bronco
sings out, and he flies up the
neck, breaking out and flipping
the wool aside, all in one blow.
Around the head, down the
front-leg he travels, cleaning
off the shoulder and pivoting
into the long-blow position all
at the same time, and all before
Faggotter has got his breath
and had a chance to step
forward.
Then Bronco starts in to fairly
flay the wool off, giving it
everything he’s got; all his
pace, all his best quality, his
smoothest style, his every trick
and short-cut; in fact, every
point of his trade that had
won for him the hard-earned
reputation that he boasted: all
this ; and then he adds a bit for
Faggotter’s benefit.
Within a minute he’s pushing
the wether, bare, pink, shaven,
without nick or cut, down the
chute, and he’s grinning at
Faggotter and Faggotter is
purple.
“I’ll sue,” he chokes. “I’ll
sue if you leave.”
But Bronco shakes his head.
“You’re too late, old feller,”
he says. “Six witnesses to
prove that you tramped me for
incompetent shearing, whereas
if you’d only given me half a
chance I’d ’ve showed you
that I’m even quicker and
cleaner shearing ’em wrong
way up.”
And he picks up his gear,
waves at Nugget, winks at the
bulging-eyed, speechless Fag-
gotter and strolls off down to
the huts.
Next day he wins a pen in
four thousand crossbred
hoggets at a shed just over
the way from Faggotter’s, and
they reckon he had two
hundred out at half-past-four,
and was whistling aDd singing
all day.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP
TASMANIA — In Divorce.
No. 132 of 19f)6.
TO EDWARD PEARSON QUARRELL
formerly of 41 Fitzroy Crescent Hobart
in Tasmania and of 24 Railway Street
Cook’s Hill Newcastle in the State of
New South Wales whose present address
is unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that a
Petition has been filed in this Court
endorsed with a Notice to you to appear
and answer the charges in the Petition
of LILLIAN GRACE QUARRELL of 63
Salvator Road Hobart in Tasmania
Married Woman praying for dissolution
of her marriage on the ground of de-
sertion IN DEFAULT of your so
appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said charges proved
and pronounce judgment therein your
absence notwithstanding AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the pur-
pose aforesaid an appearance must be
entered at the Principal Registry of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie
Street Hobart in the State of Tas-
mania within 30 days after the date
of the publication of this Notice.—
DATED this 28th day of March, 1957.
—H. R. DOBBIE, Principal Registrar.
A Sailor and the Borovansky
By A. AUSTIN
MY ship, an old weather-
beaten tanker, had
arrived at Gore Bay,
Sydney, with a full
cargo of petrol, and as soon
as the arriving formalities were
over I hurried ashore to post
letters, returning with a news-
paper.
Later, while having a few
“arrival gins” with the boys, I
noticed in the paper that the
Borovansky ballet was in town.
Emboldened by the gin, I
announced publicly my inten-
tion of going to see it, and,
as expected, created a storm
among the topers around me.
“Boro— what- sky, did you
say? You don’t go for that
cissy stuff, do you? Come
ashore with the boys and have
a few beers ; do you good.”
“They’re not bad,” I said. “I
saw them last time we were in
Melbourne, and they were
pretty good.” (The pubs closed
at 6 p.m., of course, in Mel-
bourne. This was accepted as
a reasonable excuse for my
Melbourne lapse.)
Another round of gins, and
the others were becoming
resigned to my scratching from
the boozing expedition. After
all, I was the ship’s wireless-
operator and therefore could
be expected to be a little
eccentric. Mind you, I was no
great balletomane or whatever
it is they call ballet-fans, but I
had been reading quite a bit
about its success in England
and elsewhere; and finally
decided I \yould have to give
it a go.
In New York and elsewhere
I had seen some ballet when
it had been part of musical
shows, but the Borovansky at
Melbourne was the first full-
scale ballet I had seen. I
enjoyed it, which was surpris-
ing, because for years the
average stage-show had been
boring me stiff, while the
average screen-show used to
drive me screaming for the
exit.
A final gin, and I left my
shipmates, who were beginning
to look a little glassy-eyed;
grabbed a taxi and wheeled off
to the theatre.
The cab-driver was one of
the toughest-looking individuals
1 had seen for a long time,
even judging by Sydney cab-
drivers’ standards. The type
one could imagine shaving with
a blow-lamp. He ruminated
over my destination for a
minute as he accelerated the
Flolden.
“Going to see the ballet?” he
said in a pronounced Sydney
accent which grated on my
English ears like a buzz-saw.
“Er —yes,” I replied, once
more on the defensive.
“Great stuff, the Boro-
vansky,” he asserted. “Me and
“Rehearsing for th' Works ballet during
Working-hours must cease!”
the missus never miss a show
when it comes round.”
At the theatre I wondered to
myself about how you just
can’t go by appearances.
There were still a few single
seats left, and in a few minutes
I was enjoying the first part of
the show—“ Pineapple Poll.”
Very entertaining, but rather
light stuff.
The next item was “Les
Amants Eternales” (“The
Eternal Lovers”) which sound
rather gooey but meant noth-
ing else to me, which, after
all, wasn’t surprising, consider-
ing my very patchy knowledge
of the art.
Most of the famous ballets I
had heard of, through hearing
their music on the radio, but I
had never heard of this one.
Still, that wasn’t surprising,
either, my knowledge of music
being little better, and, besides,
they didn’t play much ballet-
music in my usual haunts. I
hoped it wasn’t one of these
pretty-pretty ballets with
hackneyed music like “Les
Sylphides,” which I had seen
in Melbourne ; pleasant enough
to watch but little else.
The ballet started, and
within minutes it had me
completely in its grip—its
magnificent settings, dramatic
lighting and the weirdly strik-
ing music ; but above all else
by the dancing, volcanic in its
intensity and passion. With
ever-increasing tension and
drama the ballet reached the
spectacular climax, and the
curtains closed. There was a
momentary silence as if the
audience was still dazed ; then
a great roar of applause.
The spell broken, I blinked
my eyes in the light, and slowly
returned to reality. Suddenly I
realised that my hands were
damp with perspiration, my
heart was racing and that my
shirt was sticking clammily to
my back despite the air-
conditioning of the theatre.
“Good God,” I thought,
“I’m as emotionally affected as
if I was some featherbrained
schoolgirl. Me, that’s been
everywhere in the world that’s
worth going to and seen all
there is to see ; me, that’s never
felt any emotion about any-
thing, save when the last bottle
of rum was accidentally broken
in Canada!”
I tried to console myself by
blaming the gin. Still feeling
rather ashamed, even a little
horrified, I furtively wiped my
hands and glanced around.
Two young chaps had arisen
in front of me and were turn-
ing into the aisle for the inter-
mission. They were typical
young Australians, tall, athletic,
the type one would see on any
beach on a Saturday afternoon
and in any pub on a Saturday
evening. Well-dressed; with
the typical, superficial
sophistication and hard-boiled-
ness of most young
males; they seemed
hardly the type to me
who would patronise
any of the arts, let
alone the ballet.
As they turned up
the aisle the leading one
turned and spoke to the
other. “Fair enough?”
he said, with a trium-
phant note in his voice.
His cobber nodded submis-
sively. “Fair enough,” he
admitted.
No more was said, no more
was needed. The triumphant
one, a ballet convert, had
obviously induced his reluctant
pal to come to the ballet.
I felt much better. I was
normal after all. Yes, that was
it —that was the answer.
“Fair enough!”


man for himself. The relief
and satisfaction of knowing
that the London public was
riding the bombardment was
reflected in my own cheerful-
ness, occasionally frivolity, in
cartoons about our collective
miseries.
But, man being imperfect,
all was not noble. There was
the ugly side. The rapid de-
basement of war aims; the
degradation even of the V-sign
by cheap commercial huck-
sters; greedy cheats and their
under-the-counter evasions of
the food-rationing; a percept-
ible decline in morality and a
rapid increase in the ranks of
“tarts” and petty thieves.
THE military threads of the
war itself were distress-
ingly simple to follow as
subject - matter. Not so the
political.
The months immediately
preceding and after the open-
ing of fighting had been dis-
ruptive of the political scene,
especially that part of it con-
cerned with Soviet Russia. The
Berlin-Moscow Pact had
rudely jarred the idealists back
to reality. Socialists who had
confused their creed with the
practice of Russian Com-
munism recoiled. Uncle Joe
had sold the lambs up the river.
The new revised “line” was
too phony to satisfy any but
the doped party-man.
Experience had taught me
that physiognomy is a doubtful
key to character, but looking
at that forehead, that narrow
eye, and the cut of that mouth
under the moustache, I was de-
pressed. I . had never been an
admirer of Stalin’s brand of
smartness.
The complexity of this
situation from the cartoonist’s
point of view took a bit of
straightening out. I had to
condemn Soviet Russia’s deals
with Nazi Germany root and
branch, on grounds both of
morality and of expediency;
and this I did in forthright
manner beginning with
“Rendezvous,” the meeting in
Poland of the “Enemy of the
People” with the “Scum of the
Earth,” and carrying on to
“Under New Management,”
Molotov borrowing the
methods of Nazism to invade
England.
I had acquired some good-
will among the Communists
and their followers by my
comments on the Nazis, but
this I lost overnight. Then I
had acquired some goodwill
among the anti-Communists,
because of my sarcasm at
Stalin’s expense, but this dis-
appeared even quicker.
After the Nazi-Soviet pact I
could never be convinced that
the combination could stick,
and I decided that where there
was the slightest chance of it
becoming unstuck I would cer-
tainly not obstruct the process.
Privately I felt that we could
never avoid defeat in the war
without the help of both
America and Russia. My
ambiguity confused the lambs
whose idea of politics is to
choose a side and stick to it. I
had some difficult cartoons to-
draw before Hitler’s own
folly later simplified the situa-
tion by invading Russia.
Top ORTUNATELY the signs
and omens from the
United States were propitious
also. The backroom behind the
blackout had been welcoming
more and more American
faces.
Wendell Willkie, for instance,
whom 1 was thunderstruck to
see one night in a London pub
being shown how to play darts
by Herbert Morrison. A
broad, cheerful chap who made
all the right sympathetic
noises.
And Harry Hopkins, who
suddenly appeared from no-
where like a fairy godmother
to arrange for virtually
unlimited supplies under Lend-
Lease.
Harry, an elongated elf with
a thinnish little face in a flat
hat on the top of a voluminous
greatcoat, told us, with the
kind of humor that the British
like to think is American, that
the real reason he had come
to London was to get a night’s
sleep. I gathered from Harry
that life in Washington was
hell. Roosevelt had his best
ideas in the middle of the
night and always had to tele-
phone his advisers out of their
beds for immediate discussion.
TcT)USSIA was not the only
irritant. Alongside that
there was the question of
priorities. Our armies had
been thrown out of Europe,
and even Churchill was going
around asking people what to
do next.
Hardly the moment to count
unhatched chickens. A time
when it seemed more important
to survive than to make condi-
tions about it. I was not pre-
pared for a row with H. G.
Weils on the point.
H.G., who had been getting
more exasperated and exasper-
ating in his seventies, had been
concentrating on post-war con-
struction :
June 20, 1941.
Dear David,
I note your attack on me in the
“Evening Standard” and naturally
I think it damned silly. Your poor
wits have given way under the
war strain and you have become a
Gawd-saker. What the hell do you
think will keep people fighting Nazi-
dom if the outlook our own side
offers is equally ambiguous and
unattractive? Goebbels any time if
the choice is between his promise
of a New World and the “New
World” of the Emperor Otto, Otto
Strasser, Franco, the old English
school-tie and a gang of syphilitic
Poles which your heart seems to
desire —with Hess thrown in. Who
has got hold of you, David? Who’s
pumping stuff into your brain
arteries?
Sorry to lose you, Eow.
Regretfully,
H.G.
Probably he was surprised
when I let fly back like a bear
with a sore head:
June 24th, 1941.
Dear H.G..
Am I mortified! —to find myself
in the bughouse with Otto, Franco,
Strasser, Hess and a lot of
syphilitic Poles. Lumme, that
must have been a “powerful” car-
toon.
It was not an attack on you—
unless your conscience identifies
you (I never should) with those
who play at New World planning
not for stimulus but for anodyne.
Would you take another look at
the cartoon? It seems plain
enough for me.
I am all for your Rights of Man
and a Better World, as I shall
blooming well show you in due
course; what sensible man wouldn’t
be? But I want it said loud and
often that unless we fight like hell
now against Hitler—much better
than we have done so far —all such
plans are boloney. Some say that
that goes without saying, but it
certainly does not. Boobs are
already manufacturing a new
beautiful let-out for themselves;
“Gimme the New World now or
what’s the use of fighting at
a 11.... might as well be run by
Goebbels, etc etc ”
I must say I whistle when you
imply, after all you have written
and said about Nazism, that you
would as soon have Goebbels as the
pre-war democracy, imperfect as it
was. That doesn’t make sense to
me. I hate to think of you behind
barbed-wire.
I refuse to be lost, H.G. What-
ever happens, I persist in being
your devoted if unwelcome admirer.
Yours ever,
DAVID.
A dank silence ; followed a
couple of weeks later by a copy
of his latest book, with the
baffling inscription “To David,
who is always right, from H.G.;
who suffers from the same
tragic lucidity.”
The whole thing was all very
characteristic.
TEMPERS wore thin in
those days. I had been
sick of the phony attitudes
being vigorously promoted
under the shelter of the so-
called “Peoples’ Convention”
by the Communists and some
cockeyed strategists who. no
doubt thought they were doing
their best for the proletariat.
Upon this I had spoken my
mind freely, and in return
received my share of abuse..
When Hitler attacked Russia,
this particular set of asses had
had their tune changed for
them overnight.
But now the asses of the
Right were in full bray. When
Russia had been dragged into
the war there had been a sigh
of relief in Britain at the pros-
pect of no longer having to
Stand alone. But a sizeable
section of the British com-
munity resented the company
of the Soviet Union as a part-
ner. Here and there, pleasure
in the thought thajt Germany
might now lose was balanced
by mortification at the possi-
bility that Russia might win.
It was evident from the
correspondence I was receiving
that even moderates felt the
circumstances released Britain
from then on to become a
spectator and watch Hitler and
Stalin destroy one another.
The Russians, as might have
been expected, responded in
kind. They had had their
difficulties in reversing their
propaganda completely from
unfriendly to friendly to
fit the new set-up. Heavy
military losses had made
Moscow more complaining
day by day about the delays
of first the British and later the
United States in starting a
second front. It was easy to
fall back again into alleging
plots and double-crossing inten-
tions among the British. But
when the Russian cartoonists
used my Blimp in their car-
toons as representative of the
British, just to keep the record
clear and show the boot was
on the other foot this time, l
invented a Russian Blimp on
the spot, Blimpski, .and drew
him poispning the wells of
truth.
“There, dammit,” I said to
myself as that wfent off, “let’s
see you reprint that.”
©N the twenty or so
occasions I had broadcast
I had always enjoyed it. And
I had sometimes wondered
what it might be like to have a
regular job on the air—to be a
Radio Commentator.
So now, adding another
straw to my somewhat over-
loaded hump, I took one and
for nearly two years was a
Voice cn the 8.8. C., winging
words of wisdom with periodi-
cal regularity to the Pacific and
North America.
Save for having to get up
early in the morning and drive
through the icy dawn to catch
the right vibrations to send
“live,” it was an exhilarating
experience..
I took much trouble over
my scripts, breaking up my


sentences to avoid sing-song,
and underlining in colored
pencils degrees of emphasis,
key words and pauses.
I had seen and admired
some scripts of my friends
Raymond Gram Swing,
Britain's pet transatlantic
radio-comforter at that time,
There was no reason why a
script should not be a work of
art. And I remembered words
Walter Winchell, the New
York Voice of Broadway, had
dropped about delivery.
“I talk for 14 minutes,
starting at 204 words to the
minute, slowing down to 195
and then finishing with a
bang.”
“Why?” I asked.
“Why! ” he repeated incredu-
lously. “To get ’em excited of
course.”
One morning I arrived at the
microphone to find that my
producer and his helpers were
all laid out with influenza. I
had been overlooked in the
emergency and I had to pro-
duce myself. I found, too, that
1 had overwritten my thirteen-
minute script by about five
minutes. The circumstances
were propitious for an experi-
ment. I beat Winchell by 14
words flat. No war ever had
such a rapid appraisal.
SITTING in my little under-
ground niche in the bowels
of the 8.8. C. talking into the
void, there was always a doubt
whether anybody heard; or if
they did, took any notice.
Yet occasionally there was
reassuring if astonishing evi-
dence to prove otherwise. It
was evident that I was heard
by the enemy when there was
a splenetic reply from the
Nazi radio “to the drivelling,
meandering, paltry buffoonery
of Lord Beaverbrook’s little
scribbler.”
I became involved in a wide
and detailed argument over
something I said about some-
body’s post-war plan, with a
man in Alberta, Canada.
There was an old lady who
used to write to me regularly
from Singapore. And there
was at least one occasion upon
which I evoked an adequate
resjKmse from Australia.
For some time, even before
the shooting-war with Japan
began, and especially after the
miscalculations and errors of
judgment of the Malayan
campaign had arrived at the
fall of Singapore, I had run a
string of newspaper-cartoons
advocating closer consultation
with the Pacific Dominions
about their defence.
Now Britain’s position was
too obviously tight to do
much about it, anyway. One
day Britain learned that Aus-
tralian Prime Minister Curtin
found Australia to be in such
peril from the Japanese that he
said he was going to send for
help to the United States “with-
out any pangs as to traditional
links with the United King-
dom.”
Amazing as it might seem a
decade later, this news was
greeted in some important
quarters in Britain as though
Australia had sold itself to the
Yankees and by not going
down with a stiff upper-lip and
a straight bat had betrayed the
Empire.
This complete misappre-
hension of realities and rela-
tionships in the Pacific seemed
to me to require discounting.
It was my morning for broad-
casting, so, since the respon-
sible authorities had so far
kept mum, I directed a few
impassioned words to Aus-
tralia myself for them:
There are some romantics here
left behind the passage of events
who are unable to conceive of war
except as a John Buli-Britannia
affair fought for a closed-shop
Empire. Tile significance of the
present war as a common cause of
free peoples united escapes them.
The noble words of Churchill and
Roosevelt fly over their bony
heads. Mr. Curtin neither surprised
nor shocked realistic observers who
looked at the map. Rook to
America? Yes, of course. Tra-
ditional links will look after them-
selves.
THE blitz disrupted social
relationships. Places of
meeting blew up, grounds
disintegrated, people dis-
appeared, “sources” dried up,
background became fragmen-
tated, constantly sorting out
into new patterns like a kalei-
doscope.
I found plenty of opportu-
nities for sampling the new
people, individually and collec-
tively, formally and informally,
and getting what “inside
stories” were going.
To me, one of the most
engrossing narratives of the
war was that given by Menzies,
the Australian Prime Minister,
of the first advance of Wavell’s
Commonwealth Army along
the North African coast in
1941, told to a private dinner
at Claridge’s; and the most
amusing—coming welcome at
a dismal time —Harry Hop-
kins’s “inside story” of how
• Winston Churchill personally
showed him over the Fleet—
the “inside” referred to in this
case being his own, which was
gravely impaired by the rough-
ness of the waves and the
unrelenting energy of his host.
(To be concluded next week )
P. G. WODEHOUSE
(Another of David Low’s brilliant “New Statesman” caricatures.
Today Wodehouse is remarkably in fresh form in the remarkably
remodelled and refreshened London “Punch.”)


From Woomera to Mars
If books, relating to Australia pub-
lished anywhere in the world may
broadly be regarded as a contribution
to Australian literature, Rex Gordon’s
No Man Friday (Heinemann) and
Hugh Walters’s Blast Off at Woomera
(Faber) must be received with all due
respect. And if neither, upon examina-
tion, can be said to have the slightest
literary value, it is at least of some
profit to have given a new word to the
world and. to have these English
writers apparently quite clear on the
difference between a Woomera and a
wombat.
Neither of the writers, it must be said,
adds very much to our knowledge of
what goes on in that mysterious corner
of the desert where the scientists are
believed to be playing with bombs and
rockets.
Mr. Gordon says that you get an
impression of “gaunt and twisted
girders dominating a landscape of fiat
blackened earth,” where the dust some-
times makes the sun go green:—
There was at least one man who
said he saw beauty in it, and he was
painting a picture which he hoped
would one day hang in a gallery
called the Tate.
Mr. Walters says that the Australian
Government, in an effort to soften the
landscape, has planted 25,000 gum-
trees; also that there are lawns, flower-
beds and prefabricated bungalows. Mr.
Gordon, unknown to Mr. Walters, has
a space-ship hidden in a “water-
tower”;, Mr. Walters, unknown to Mr.
Gordon, has a Communist spy who
thus provides a very good reason for
hiding things in water-towers.
None of this is very exciting; in
fact, from a purely local point of view,
it is disappointing. But Mr. Walters,
one should add, at least fires a small
boy 150 miles into space in a rocket—-
an exploit hitherto kept very hush-hush
—while Mr. Gordon, going consider-
ably further, actually takes-off from
Woomera for Mars and, what’s more,
gets there.
To a reviewer utterly unable to com-
prehend the machinery of even a wheel-
barrow, both writers offer considerable
difficulties. Apparently the trouble
about writing space-fiction is how,
having an essentially simple plot such
as a boy being shot-off in a rocket or a
scientist whizzing up to Mars, you are
going to pad it out to book-length. The
simplest way to do this —and both
writers take full advantage of the
opportunity—is to discuss at inordinate
length and with baffling complexity the
mechanics, devices and discomforts
of space-travel. However, all this,
even Mr. Gordon’s oscillatory howl,
should be of interest to the
mechanically-minded.
Mr. Walters takes a very long time
to blow his boy off, having him bashed
by Teddy-boys and pursued by Soviet
agents for no particular purpose; but
when he does become airborne,
attempting to photograph mysterious
little domes which have appeared near
Pico on the moon, thought to be
possibly the encampments of Soviet
astronauts, all sorts of exciting events
crowd one upon another. The Com-
munist spy is bailing-up all the
scientists in the control-room with a
revolver, intending to wreck the rocket;
the rocket is rapidly crashing; and
the indomitable Christopher, altern-
ately conscious and unconscious, and
determined that the photographs shall
survive even if he doesn’t, is clutching
the camera to his breast, and falling ...
falling . . .
It is extremely cheering after this
tense scene to learn not only that world
peace is established immediately after-
wards —the domes turn out to have
been made by some unknown inhabi-
tants of space; which frightens both
the Russians and the West into settling
their differences — but also that
Christopher, the boy who established
world peace, survives;—
Two large, dark eyes like minia-
ture pools in a thin, white face.
For a second or two Benson stared,
too full of emotion to speak. Then
THE GOLDEN CHICKS
Ten golden chicks like stars of wool,
Ten golden chickens from the store
Of love and sun ; Maureen you watched
(The space of long days three times
seven)
Over the height of childhood’s heaven.
Around the corners of your fun,
Across the distance of your love.
The darkness closed on them —a door
That opened where it moved with love
Across the shadow of your stare.
But now that door has swung full back,
And like a sunrise catching fire
The darkness is a golden flare
Where ten gold chicks emerge from
strife,
Their, down aglow with the attire
Of gold that grows on the sun’s life.
And like a breeze, excitement, tense,
Fills the full sail your wonder spreads,
And sweetens with your innocence.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN HENDERSON.
Valera, who, in a sudden inspiration
when the police are at his heels,
declares he is Nekrassov, the Soviet
Minister of the Interior, who, though
really only on holidays, has “disap-
peared” from Moscow at the time and
is thought to have “chosen freedom.”
And as Nekrassov, taken-up by
unscrupulous newspapermen who want
to boost their falling circulation,
Georges has a whale of a time making
revelations about the Soviet, exposing
plots in France and being feted at
parties until at last the security-police
try to force him to give false evidence
against French Communists they wish
to imprison; whereupon Georges takes
to his heels again.
The action is enriched and compli-
cated by a detective, rather like Hugo’s
Inspector Javert, who steadily pursues
the confidence-man, and by the
presence in Paris of a genuine escapee
from the Soviet Government, with
whom Georges is always likely to be
confronted.
M. Sartre doesn’t seem to be grind-
ing any particular political axe, except
to satirise the newspapers and the
general confusion and corruption of
France. One is equally delighted by
the balance with which he handles this
awkward theme and by the fun he gets
out of it.
Kenneth Tynan, reviewing the
London stage production, found the
play “the best political comedy we
have seen since Shaw’s perihelion.”
This reviewer would go further: the
characters are much more alive than
most of Shaw’s, the whole thing a
dance of people rather than a dance
of words. The only thing that makes
one hesitate to say it “contributes”
infinitely more than “South Sea
Bubble” is its topicality. It is wonder-
fully alive for the present moment of
history; but moments pass every
moment, and laughter lasts a long
time. >
Mrs. Anne Ridler in The Trial of
Thomas Cranmer (Faber), a verse-play
written for production in • St. Mary’s,
Oxford, has tried to “contribute”
something quite as significant as
Sartre’s play and, by choosing an
incident clearly and firmly isolated in
history, obviously avoids the perils
of topicality.
But this is a very disappointing play.
The interesting thing about Cranmer is
that he signed several recantations from
his “heresy”—“for fear of death, and
to save my life if it might be”—and,
in spite of them, was burned alive by
Queen Mary. One imagines what
Browning, in something like the death-
cell monologue in “The Ring and the
Book,” might have made of this pro-
tracted agony of mind, these twists and
turns of a sensitive scholar wondering
whether he should die for a point of
doctrine; and one cannot but feel that
Mrs. Richer, in her thin verse and thin
characterisation, has failed to bring
him to life.
No doubt in its intended setting, with
the facts known, and the archbishop
dragged off to the fire, the piece would
be moving enough; but as literature it
is hardly more than a distant echo
of “Murder in the Cathedral.”


the incredible boy, still too ill to
speak, slowly winked an eye.
In spite of these disarming touches,
Mr. Walters’s domes remain even
vaguer than his picture of Woomera;
and here “No Man Friday” offers con-
solation, for Mr. Gordon’s hero does
land on Mars and, in the intervals of
disentangling himself from his gadgets,
has quite a lot to tell us about it.
The plants that grow there are not,
as he had expected, mere mosses and
lichens but wildflowers, spaced regu-
larly about 3ft. apart, and these are
browsed-upon by insects with lungs,
about 6in. long, something like the
colossal bulldog-ants a luckier traveller
might have seen at Woomera. The
insects transform the nectar of the
flowers into a liquid so like Benedictine
that the hero has to throw it all away
for fear of going on a bender. There
are also giant pumpkins, and Things
like men that feed upon them, and
other Things like pterodactyls with
headlamps.
Mr. Gordon, who has to some extent
based his book on “Robinson Crusoe”
and has an electric-fence for a palisade
to keep the Things out, invents, among
his more comprehensible gadgets, a
tricycle; and on this ingenious machine,
bravely pedalling over the flat Martian
plain and shooting the Things with his
crossbow, we may fittingly take leave
of him . . . with a warm welcome back
to Woomera any time he cares to drop
down again.
Reviewed Briefly
The Daughters of Mrs. Peacock:
Gerald Bullett (Dent). A mid-
Victorian period-piece, told with
urbanity. Jane Austen without the
edge. Will beguile or waste an hour
or 80 recording to the value of the
reader s time.
* * * *
Id the Time of Greenbloom: Gabriel
Fielding (Hutchinson). An English
schoolboy’s journey through first-love,
tragedy, despair and awakening. The
?' ck " ess of thc s ,. m ‘ nd conv^ ys
>“SL S ° a If l.Sfoo
su ff ers a slight touch of vertigo also.
odd and patchy but highly perceptive
J F
“ . . ,
„ „ T .„.
Shadow of the Monsoon: William
Manchester (Cassell) Ambitious novel
of modem’ “fill of tlSZrf
references to skikars, charpoys, pattis,
sadhus . ryotSj godovans like.
The author juggles with so many types
and themes that imagination tends to
boggle while the unattractive principal
characters fail to win sympathy. The
leopard-hunt towards the end is
exciting.
* * * *
-jj ie £j ev j ces G f War: Norman Kemp
(Werner Laurie). Notable inventions of
World War 11, from the “Z” gun which
fired rockets at Nazi bombers to
Colonel Blacker’s “P.1.A.T.,” an anti-
tank mortar which once greatly
impressed Churchill at Chequers by
blowing-up a tree at 500yds. Colonel
Blacker, says Mr. Kemp, has played
with such devices since his schooldays,
when he once put a croquet-ball, fired
from a mortar, through the head-
master’s greenhouse. A pleasant little
book.
* * * *
Farewell to Steam: Roger Lloyd
(Allen and Unwin). Mr. Lloyd says
that the British Transport Commis-
sion’s announcement in 1955 of plans
for modernising British railways
announced, essentially, the end of
steam-locomotives and their replace-
ment by diesels and electricity. As a
lover of steam, he looks back over
engines he has known and journeys he
has done; and, in random historical
essays, brings in some famous disasters
and the weird story of the train that
took Lenin from Switzerland back to
Russia in 1917 when the Germans
hoped he would make peace. That
was another kind of disaster.
* * * *
Hawthorne’s The Scarlet Letter is a
slight little item to keep company with
the two close-packed volumes of Pres-
cott’s The Conquest of Mexico in a
bundle of recent Everyman reprints;
but, for its cruelty and intensity, as
well as for its lasting quality, it is not
inappropriate. The three volumes
together are a burst of literary mag-
nificence such as only Everymans would
be capable of sending casually through
the mail.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 429
Across
I—Applause behind the tavern is quite a new departure. (10)
6 —Don’t move kitchenware backwards. (4)
9—They intercede to bury me by the logs. (14)
10— Burped. (6)
11— Left dress. (3, 5)
13—One day without a Scot, probably. (4)
L- : ;
14 — Yorkshire seaman associated with
a Woolloomooloo fuss. (10)
18—Members.of the staff of Sydney’s
“Mirror” would like to regard
themselves as such swaggies. (10)
20 —Norseman who always has a loaf.
(4)
23—Spree Christmas song about
America. (8)
25 —Whose heart is given to Alma? (6)
27 — Our Queen’s after twenty cheats.
(6, 8)
28 — ihe maestro gives this round of
a cop. (4)
29 — Where automobiles are sold to
a layer county in Wales. (10)
Down
1 — Clarifier of liquor is in a drinking
vessel. (9)
2 The plain cake is spotted. (7)
3 Travel spoilt a rascal. (6)
4 Knotted change of diet. (4)
5 Fruit where none exist. (5)
7 Penniless centre to frustrate the
three-leaved plant. (7)
8— Homes which can be bought
ready-made are not ordinary
seamen. (7)
12 —Brook to consume in fire. (4)
15 — Flier noted for much singing
escapade. (4)
16 — The football months for
cricketers Tasman and Sargasso
between the two halves of their
cricket-field. (3-6)
17 — Converter of the Hebrides finds a
nlace in the Mon Clnh.
19 —A camera in the middle of an
N.SAV. fishing resort. (7)
21— Just a part of London to beat
Lizzie. (7)
22 — Weapon who employs mother.
(6)
24 —One about an upset ground. (5)
26 —Morning which practises a drop.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 428


X P'pp v x ;, : : .... ..
v i , < ' v
&/< £•:>< A • : ? •** vx v v,- •• <xx.
kiSfPSM®:
titssStte. •• •• ••
#
agtegggs^j
liil
>*£&*>>
gpiiili
X -.vvK*.v'" .vX-. i x.
, f
%8«/ijSi v : I
|
*«&
XifS
*S?.P
wmM
<A ■ -
PP??' P?i PP Pp: pi . .
X' i: :
¥■ ' '*' >\ ”.Spwlm ?? -Jmo'
W< V »WP , '-oS&^P
:pv-;-. .
x- ' ... v v J * ,
’ —.
x% jdgjk tojkP---';
*r;* *• ••* VP- % .jmMu
• , ' ~' S' i^4sS&B&&s2m
,- P-P i
'f!/, X
!$?>:8
pfp ' - , '..V;' *
v>« s<■» *. >s•*? ;:<X;X : v: ; ?:¥xP:'::
• •.:>•;*. ' . - •;;
, *&•% • •".>;%•: v % v>:
' s .,- - i
P: x
&':*3
~ ' v:: v *3mvww.
«x*Px*xxX;V;:xP ; > : vx.x:-:xv<>:v:;ftXx:v::
f & ✓ •/, «*>: <<
•;••• ■'■.■■ :y-y'y- :■ x •.;> '•>:v:*:-;v£;>X , <>V”:v
•; : :P.: ; ’
~x ;" - :
xpXpX'
':::::>:\-x<v:::x-:-fS i :vt:<:<::v
. ■• - &• a
P?
x- -x
'
m
gfc&x
;* : :v:*$*:x::::-x:::;
; : >:vw: :
m; :'••••*• v*>v
: :•: x x-x-'xx
; :^y;. : ..: : . s .'-.x' :-. :.x- *» Jjc.x;x ::.;•^;. i .v. .:c.: v-:
V -
\ '
IP?
■•:X:-: : :'x : : : x : :
\
V'
-
V
■i
illii
-x
sspsp?:
V
x ..
w* P • x'x>;x.xs-?:-
"V 1
;• •••; ' .•; .:• >
•xi*:-:
’ • / • .
■.. ": ■ - ■■..-■ • ■
. - ; : - ■ ■; /.
lil i m
. ‘ '• '•■• Tx AX**r -*’-
- .
. .pSpT-i P'Xp
/four /onf /s cr //ft?
Not sure? In this case it was seven inches. That’s all.
Another seven inches and another fatal accident would
have occurred. Another level crossing fatal accident. It was
all so simple and unnecessary.
They were driving along this well-surfaced road through
country a patchwork of greens and browns. The road curved
sharply around the bluff. Around it went the car. And then
. . . just 30 yards ahead was the level crossing with a train
just entering it. The driver stood on everything, foot flat
to the floor, his hands locked in terror on the steering wheel.
They were, lucky., They stopped. Just seven inches this
side Of possible death. It shouldn't have happened. noj. in
Australia in 1957. But it did arid it will happen again with
perhaps more serious results unless drastic action is taken
on lev<?l crossings. - - , . '
Most of us realise they are an antiquated relic from the d
days of slow horse-drawn traffic. Some authorities have
helped to break down the accident rate by installing more
danger signs .and so forth.' But that’s not the final answer.
Nor dp such moves help solve the costly delays level cross-
ings cause. They help push up the price of goods and ser-
vices'Which ultimately is passed on to you in turn forcing
up'your cost of living. . '
Level crossings must go. Overpasses and underpasses are
today’s need. In some cases roads will have to be re-routed.
Road transport plays such an important part in our lives
that Australian roads should be made as safe as possible.
What Australia, needs is a National Roads Authority, a
single body, backed by the necessary funds and powers, to
provide the foresight and planning essential to good road
making. An Australian National Roads Authority could be
the first step, in bringing our roads into line with today’s
requiretnents, while keeping an eye on the future.
What do you think?
CATERPILLAR*
o'
cQ'*'
*
d ’caterpillar and cat af
EGISTERED TRADE MARKS C
RPILLAR TRACTOR CO., U.S.
When you think of
better roads, think of
the big yellow machines
that• help build them.
BIOS
ii?
.
§s&SBs§
S Jl' *fs
■ ' .
CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
DIESEL ENGINES • TRACTORS • MOTOR GRADERS • EARTHMOVING EQUIPMENT
