

SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
LOW IN LONDON PAGE 22
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 78 No. 4012
Wednesday, January 2, 1957
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
CHRISTCHURCH GATEWAY,
ONE OF CANTERBURY’S
MANY FEATURES
THE historic city of Canterbury would be a
worthy object of pilgrimage in modern
times, as it has been in the past, for its
magnificent cathedral alone, but there is much
more besides to occupy the interest and admira-
tion of visitors. There are, for instance, the
Norman keep, St. Augustine's Abbey, the 14th-
century West Gate with its huge twin turrets,
the Weavers beside the River Stour, part of
a Roman house and paving revealed by recent
excavations, the ancient Church of St. Martin
which was the first Christian church erected
during the Roman occupation, and the beautiful
Tudor Christchurch Gateway, illustrated here.
The Gateway was built on the site of the
Norman gateway in 1517 by Prior Goldstone,
and although mutilated in 1648 by the Puritan,
Richard Culmer, it has survived time and the
elements to grace the city as one of the most
beautiful specimens of Perpendicular work in
the British Isles. The gateway was built as the
chief entrance to the Monastery of Christ
Church and to the Cathedral.
In the 18th century the two turrets of the
gate were removed in order, it is said, that the
Cathedral clock could be seen from a
neighbouring bank. The turrets have now been
rebuilt due to the generosity of a friend of
Canterbury Cathedral and they were re-dedicated
in 1937 by the Bishop of Chichester.
In addition to its great historic and archi-
tectural interest, Canterbury is a city which has
many literary associations, for it was there that
Chaucer “wrote “The Canterbury Tales”
(c. 1380) in the reign of Richard 11. Christopher
Marlowe, poet and dramatist, was born in
Canterbury and his memorial stands in Dane
John Gardens. The Fleur de Lis hotel often
received Dickens as a guest and much of it still
retains the 15th century charm which appealed
to that great literary figure. At The Sun hotel
Dickens pictured Mr. Micawbcr at a window
waiting for something to turn up. Joseph
Conrad was buried in Canterbury Cathedral and
Richard Harris Barham, author of the
“Ingoldsby Legends,” was born in a house in
Burgate, which was destroyed by enemy action
in 1942.
No. 330: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


WIN SUCCESS
AS A WRITER!
Successi" l STOTT-trained Writers con-
reAny to the Press. It will pay
you l live STOTT-f STOTT’S. Wherever
i lve ’ “i-OTT S can tram you in your
Student^ 1 ’ 6 letters^— USt * feW eitracts from
1 h , e past s * x months my Acceptances
have returned m e over £200.”
T ‘‘ r p Vrf- Pd to report further Successes since
to come.” “ 68 £SS in hand with mol e
amount” of Iwo/m/O. ” ly Accepfomces to the
earnings from my Writing- total almost
Kh 'l ve '3,™ UCh e "i°y ed mv Freelance Journalism
Sles a lcc“p°t r e e d.” Paid f ° r the ° OUrSe
moreen S’?'' 6 St ° ri6S> Which
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 119 Castlereach St.
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell’
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
'CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON'
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without anv obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME '
ADDRESS
(S.B. 157)
AGE
UOOKMUNTEK, Box 2671, G.F.0., Sydney
A Bervice foi readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only ,if
cessful.
The Red Page
MR. AND MRS. NILAND
Critics of the grime, grease and
poverty in Ruth Park’s novels may
find something to interest them in The
Drums Go Bang, by Ruth Park and
D’Arcy Niland (Angus and Robert-
son). Both writers obviously had a
very tough time, and now that she is
sitting behind five books and he behind
the novel of the film “The Shiralee”
they feel they can afford to say so.
He was a Glen Innes boy of 17
working around the circus in Sydney
and yearning to write and she was a
proof-reader’s assistant on an Auckland
paper when Sisters of their respective
schools introduced him to her as his
possible literary adviser. Miss Park
made a brief visit to Sydney, and
returned later to many Mr. Niland;
and they lived in a rpom at the Cross.
Then Mr. Niland gave up his job on
the railways and went with his brother
Gus to jobs as wool-rollers for the
shearing at a station out of Gilla Gilla,
Miss Park tagging along as camp-
follower. It was there that they posed
the cook for one of a series of snapshots
they were taking, “Murder in the
Cookhouse”; he had to hold brother
Gus’s throat with qne hand and a
threatening knife in the other. A
little later Miss Park, having spoken
her mind on cooks who let their wives
do all the work, was fortunate to get
safely out of the cook’s presence:—
Joe was a celebrated knife-artist
and had done time in half-a-dozen
jails for his fancywork with the
knife.
Miss Park thereupon retired to a job
as taxi-driver’s secretary and booking-
officer in the township; and eventually
the good old taxi-driver drove her out
to Lightning Ridge, where she was
joined by her husband and brother-in-
law, and they fossicked £3O-worth of
opals between them, and returned to
Sydney, where they took a house in
Surry Hills.
By this time the A.B.C. were taking
Mr. Niland’s series of little plays about
“The Bagman,” and Miss Park had
just received an A.B.C. offer to write
a children’s serial at two-guineas an
episode when she had to go to hospital
and come out with little Anne.
But the serial and the little verses
printed as prose that Miss Park wrote
for an inter-State syndicate, and the
short-stories Mr. Niland had accepted
and the scripts he wrote for the up-and-
coming comedian Dick Bentley and
the adaptations he made for Mr. Fred
Howell’s “Fred and Maggie Every-
body” sessions hardly put them in Easy-
street; though they seemed impressed
by the offer to write an A.B.C.
Christmas pantomime . . . and then
the baby of a Surry Hills neighbor was
bitten to death by rats, and as their
Surry Hills house was thick with rats,
they finally moved to an old house by
the sea at Narrabeen. And there a
great wave came and swamped them
right out of house and home.
A friend found them a flat at Peter-
sham, and there Mr. Niland exchanged
a memorable series of letters with the
principal of a correspondence-school in
authorship to which he had won a half-
scholarship. He asks for the cash or
the half-scholarship and finally suggests
that his half-scholarship be added to
that of some other half-scholarship
winner . . . They assure the reader
that the extracts given are genuine—
and an assurance is certainly needed.
But Miss Park’s health had been bad,
and so they went, with little more than
an advance of their fare-money, to
New Zealand; and it was there that,
having been sent a copy of the Sydney
“Herald’s” literary - competition
announcement. Miss Park hammered
her memories of Suriy Hills into “The
Harp in the South.”
There are little flowers-of-memory
throughout this autobiography for
helpers-on-the-way: Mr. Rees and Mr.
Clewlow of the A.8.C.; Mr. Virtue, an
editor, who seems to have been always
at hand with a perambulator, a
payment-in-advance or a flat; Mr.
Greenop; and, with the success of “The
Harp in the South,” Mr. Threlfall of
the “Herald” and Warwick Fairfax,
“presiding deity of the ‘Herald,’ ” who
threw himself into the fight, writing
a column leader defending his
newspaper’s choice and explaining
the reasons for publishing the book.
As one remembers it, criticism of
the novel at that time was that it
seemed a little out-of-place against its
background of post-war prosperity—
and, of course, it was. This auto-
biography may help to explain why,
and Miss Park can point with satisfac-
tion to the replacement of some of her
scenes with modern flats, maybe as a
result of her book.
ELEGY FOR MAJOR POETS
The massing green, the passionless
savannahs
Of sea spreadeagled underneath the moon
Or sun or neither, tempt the masthead
banners
Of such explorers. On the vacant map
A red line courses like a mystic rune
Where they have pushed the frontiers of
our known
World into vacant latitudes of fear .
Safe in your convoys, know that they
alone
Rolled back the darkness so the
unexpressed
Truths of our navigation might be clear.
You know that ships have but a moment’s
contact,
Yet these sailed out, forsaking even that
To shake the unknown with their single
impact.
Honor explorers with your guns and
pennants —
Without their toil the earth would still be
flat.
VICTORIA.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE.
A New Magazine
Whether because the proofs have
been satisfactorily read, because the
paper is of good quality or because
the format, though too long and lean,
generally resembles that of the usual
overseas quarterlies, “Quadrant,” a
new Australian magazine edited by
James McAuley, looks 1 as if it has been
established for years.
It opens with an essay by Alan
Villiers on Captain Cook as a seaman;
and other articles include Professor
A. D. Hope ingeniously arguing that
the world needs the poetry of A. D.
Hope; George Molnar wittily saying
that Australia needs more tenements
(how these Europeans love their
old squalor!); Denis Warner very
knowledgeable and alarming on “The
Communist Conspiracy in Asia,” in
which Messrs. Thornton and Sharkey
appear in odd company; Francois
Bondy with a “Letter from Paris”
about the muddled state of France; and
Alan Barcan on the apathy and con-
servatism into which, he says, the
Australian universities have fallen
since 1950—a rather short period from
which to draw conclusions.
There are poems by Rosemary Dob-
son on Walter de La Mare, Vincent
Buckley on Spring, Judith Wright on
her daughter, Evan Jones on a
wedding-night and A. D. Hope on a
tapeworm.
Book reviews—a section which could
be much expanded—include Patrick
Coady on Patrick White’s The Tree of
Man; William Dalton, S.J., on
Edmund Wilson’s The Scrolls from the
Dead Sea; T. A. G. Hungerford on
David Selby’s Hell and High Fever;
a somewhat skittish survey by Charles
Higham of the Oxford Book of
Australian Verse and Anthology of
New Zealand Verse; and James
McAuley discussing David Campbell’s
The Miracle of Mullion Hill.
Obviously intended to be an Aus-
tralian counterpart of the English
magazine “Encounter,” “Quadrant” is
sponsored by the Australian Com-
mittee for Cultural Freedom. It has
made, on the whole, an impressive
first-appearance.
Murder in Australia
Delight in Arthur Upfield’s artistry
often enough has nothing to do with
his detection; in his new work, Man
of Two Cities (Heinemann), it arises
from the unlikely material of a walk-
about with two camels on the Nullarbor
Plain.
His detective, Napoleon
is really searching for a girl freed by
a jury after having murdered her
husband. She was last seen on the
transcontinental train. But Inspector
Bonaparte is using a search for his
dead, alleged-uncle Lonergan’s dingo-
traps as a blind. Old Lonergan had
heard a mysterious helicopter in the
desert, and the trip with his camels is
an effort to find out where he was when
he heard it.
No sooner are they out of the
Weatherby station than the camels take
over, leading the detective, who has
only a diary to guide him, to Lost Bell
Camp, Menzies’ Delight, Three Salt-
bushes, Big Claypan, Bumblefoot Hole,
Nightmare Gutter, Dead Oak Stump—
all the inspector can do is recognise
the places from their names in the diary
as the camels take him there. But it
is the characterisation of the camels,
Curley and Millie, and the reconstruc-
tion of old Lonergan’s life with little
details like the refusal of the camels
to sleep at night until Lucy the dog
brought them each a crust of bread,
that grows in Mr. Upfield’s desert the
astonishing flower of charm.
Well, then the half-caste inspector is
lowered by hostile blacks into an
underground cave, where he finds the
lost murderess with a whole group of
Australian murderers who have been
enlarged after short sentences; and the
mystery then becomes how they got
there, how they are going to get out,
and who has murdered one of them
since they’ve been there.
It is not disclosing too much of
Mr. Upfield’s mystery to suggest that
it has something to do with the
impatience of various persons with the
early release of prisoners on “life”-
sentences for murder . . . And there
is some reference to this as a side-issue
in Sydney for Sin, by Mark Corrigan
(Angus and Robertson), an Australian
detective-story which is otherwise
everything that Mr. Upfield’s is not. •
Mr. Upfield’s Australia is what you
might expect to see if you went there;
Mr. Corrigan’s is not. Mr. Upfield’s
story grows, however curiously, out
of some Australian theme; Mr.
Corrigan’s does not. Mr. Upfield’s
people might almost be Australian
portraits ...
Mr. Corrigan, in fact, might be an
Australian trying to write like Peter
Cheyney, or an Englishman trying to fit
Australia into a Peter Cheyney frame—
and Peter Cheyney himself copied the
American detective-story cult very
much as the New Guinea native
developed a cargo-cult from an
inability to assess the white man’s
economics.
This modal-writing at two or three
removes gives a curious effect of pidgin
to Mr. Corrigan’s often-ingenious
efforts to invest Melbourne (for the
story is set in Melbourne and not
Sydney) with the gorgeous orgies of
New York or Chicago gangster-life.
The glamor-girl who hides the contra-
band in her falsies might as well, when
she comes to offer her all to the private-
eye, be all rubber; the rich Melbourne
businessman who was shot in the back
h , e ,, ei ? ter , ed Melbourne’s “Republican
Club had never really been alive; a
circus shooting-act, a Melbourne
criminal lawyer- who had studied in
America, an American gang of dope-
peddlers, girls with changeable eye-
colors, criminal war-heroes, dangerous
widows, struggle as confusedly as New
Australians with life in unaccustomed
Melbourne, and in allowing his girl-
helper to get her information from
evil-doers in any way she pleases, Mr.
Corrigan’s detective is not, as even the
toughest of American tough-guy sleuths
would say if he knew English, quite
quite.
But all things have the qualities of
their defects, and the reader who is
not bored may be amused.
Reviewed Briefly
Crusader’s Tomb: A. J. Cronin
(Angus and Robertson). Easily written,
easy to read, this is a mild account of
an English rector’s son who, designed
for Holy Orders, throws off his old
allegiances and takes to art instead. A
rambling stoiy, it takes in most of the
stock characters of such a set-up and
presents them competently. With the
usual battle against prudery and
hypocrisy and a happy ending.
* * * *
A Case of Eye Shadow: Elizabeth de
Vegh (Heinemann). Short-stories which
illuminate moods and attitudes in an
unusual way. An unruly little boy
insisting on keeping his melting ice-
cream for his mother, a rich couple’s
bright Christmas-party, a middle-aged
woman’s daydream about her looks, in
turn betray the frustrations of child-
hood, the hollowness of success, the
misery that self-deception can bring.
1 here are no “plots,” no snap endings,
just an evocation of an atmosphere and
a subtly-suggested conclusion.
# * * *
The Sunken Garden: Douglass
Wallop (Peter Davies). Starts with a
happily - married couple, successful,
suburban, American, and ends with
the same couple unhappily married.
Reason, another woman.
* * * *
The Last of the Wine: Mary Renault
(Longmans). Life during the'' last days
of the golden age of Athens seen
through the eyes of a young knight.
Alexias. The Greek view of life; the
campaigns against Sparta, Syracuse,
Persia; the famous men of the day,
Plato, Xenophon, Critias, Alcibiades;
all become of homely, personal interest
as the story develops. The book could
do with a glossary and a better map.
* * * *
Winstanlow: Francis Brett Young
(Heinemann). Rhapsodic recollections
of boyhood, of the English countryside,
of a great and beautiful country house,
of the vicar’s elfin daughter dancing on
the lawn in the moonlight, of tea
beneath the cedar-tree. Semi-autobio-
graphical, the book is unfinished, cut
short by the author’s death.
* * * *
The Black Virgin of the Gold Moun-
tain: Phyllis Hastings (Dent). The Gold
Mountain is in the mountains of
Auvergne and the Black Virgin is an
olive-wood madonna around whom
pagan superstitions linger. The story
is about Martine, the innocent, flower-
ing girl from the village, and involves
a sophisticated English artist seeking
inspiration in the French countryside.
There is a firm though improbable
plot and the well-defined personalities
are entertaining.
* sj:
Bolero: Melanie Pflaum (Heine-
mann). The bolero as a dance sym-
bolically suggests two suitors for a girl
who alternately accepts and rejects
them. This story repeats the theme in
a Spanish setting just before the Civil
War. Though the author has lived for
many years in Spain, the characters
and atmosphere might just as well be
American and add nothing to an
understanding of the Spanish character.
Just a story.


WHY NOT LAY-BY?
A truth in advertising
nthony Horderns’
its
ONLY 4/- IN <£ DEPOSIT
w
r. % *•
■re
>
3
U|
*77
■K
y!
!M
d
-nk
h
Z 2
HT/6
Will keep them out,
PERMANENTLY !
You can spray your home continually ... you can swat until you’re tired
. . . but disease-carrying flies will still keep coming into your rooms.\
£
**The surest way to keep them out is with fly-wire doors—and
we have them here at A.H’s. 2ft*. 6in. x 6ft. 6in. from 57/6 (above).
This is wonderful value—each door is sturdily constructed, with a
fine galvanised wire and ready-to-paint timber frame. We’ve a large
range of other designs, too, with a choice of bronze or galvanised
wire. Stock sizes are 2ft. Gin. x 6ft. 6in.; 2ft. 8 in. x 6ft. Bin.;
2ft. lOin. x 6ft. 6 in.. Fittings extra. We’ll deliver immediately.
GALV.
BRONZE
13
79/3
99/-
GALV.
BRONZE
12
75/-
91/-
OUR WINDOW SCREENS NOW EXPAND
Metal frame 12in. x 19in., extending to 36in,, bronze wire, 14/9.
Wood frame bronze, 21/-; galvanised, 17/9.
GALV.
BRONZE
10
81/-
102/-
tM.
V
mmm
m
L* _
§Mm
m
ss(■
Ilium
*
3 65/-, 82/6
News
Saw Sharpening
Service
A.H’s will sharpen any
kind of Saw —just leave
it on Monday and it will
be ready on Friday.
Merely 7/6 for any saw.
Mattress Repairs
For broken Springs and
sagging edges, bring
your mattress to A.H’s.
We pick up and deliver
anywhere free of charge.
Use Our Umbrella
Repair Service
Now is the time to have
your garden and beach
umbrella mended for
summer. For quotes
ring or call to our
umbrella Department.
Ground Floor, Pitt St.
• ' t
<7
\
Furniture
Repolishing
A.H’s are experts at
repolishing furniture.
Ring B 0951; one of our
representatives will call
to give a quote. And
we’ll collect the piece
to be polished; deliver
it when it’s finished—
free! Moderate charges.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 2, 1957
Vol. 78—No. 4012
The f National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
- K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
“ALL YOU WISH YOURSELF!”
AMONG the many catchphrases of goodwill and
good-fellowship that are lightly tossed from one
to another at this time of the year is one that could
mean much or nothing—“ All you wish yourself!”
It’s rather a sobering greeting; it throws back
on the recipient the task of taking stock of his
desires and aspirations and asking himself “Now,
just what do I wish myself?” Obviously one can’t
be too greedy or commonsense will say, “He can’t
really have intended to wish me all that.” On the
other hand, one mustn’t be too modest or place too
parsimonious a limit on the well-wisher’s intentibns.
The greeting calls for a rather nice assessment of
one’s deserts. How much do I deserve? How much
dare I wish myself? How much welfare did he really
want me to have?
As between nations, expressions of goodwill
follow a more formal line, being governed by
questions of diplomatic procedure and protocol.
Wisely so! All sorts of misunderstandings can be
visualised if the example of individuals were
followed. If, for example, the Indonesian Govern-
ment were to receive from The Hague the informal
message, “All you wish yourself for the New
Year,” no one could blame it for assuming that
this was equivalent to an admission of the validity
of the Indonesian claim to Dutch New Guinea. And
the United Nations, in its present mood, would be
quite capable of deciding that the sending of the
message constituted a legal transfer of sovereignty.
Things would be unbelievably complicated by an
exchange of such messages between India and
Pakistan or between Jordan and Israel, and
although no repercussions would be expected if
the President of Liberia chose the wording for his
New Year message to the Prince of Monaco there’d
be much puzzlement in Whitehall if Nasser sent it
to Eden.
Australia, then, is not likely to receive from
any other nation a blank-cheque of good wishes.
But what we wish ourselves is purely a domestic
matter, and there is no reason at all why we should
not, as a conglomeration of individuals, say to
ourselves, collectively, “All you wish yourself!”
But having said it, it is then incumbent upon us
to take stock and ask “What do we wish our-
selves?” Also, “Do we deserve what we wish?”
It is rather difficult to take a satisfactory
plebiscite of the wishes of ten million people at a
moment’s notice, particularly on New Year’s Eve,
so perhaps it will be safer to fall back on well-
tried slogans of the occasion—such as “Peace and
Prosperity.” Few people would deny that we want
both of these. Do we deserve them?
First of all, peacer Have we been trailing our
poats and inviting war? Judging by public reaction
to events of the past few months we don’t seem to
think so. A Gallup poll taken by Roy Morgan’s
organisation shows that 61 per cent, of us consider
that Britain and France were justified in taking
action against Egypt. By corollary it may be
assumed that a similar percentage approves the
Federal Government’s support of that action. Not
that our thinking in this matter is necessarily very
clear or logical. The same poll discloses that
although we approve of Britain and France going
into the Canal Zone we also (or 76 per cent, of us)
approve of the tjnited Nations going in to kick
’em out. Furthermore, while 66 per cent, of us
consider that in recent months Anthony Eden “has
done a good job as a world leader,” 60 per cent, of
us also think President Eisenhower has.
Still, to get back to the prospects of peace, or
at least to our expectation of it. It appears that 59
per cent, of us see no reason to think that a major
war will come out of events in Egypt. If this is
wishful thinking rather than careful reckoning of
cause and effect, it at least crystallises our desire
for peace, so it is fair enough to include it among
the things we wish ourselves for 1957.
It is only fair to add that Prime Minister
Menzies doesn’t entirely share our easy acceptance
of whatever goes in Egypt. As reported in the
“U.S. News and World Report.” he feels that
“recent events in the Suez area have increased the
risks of a major war.” However, he doesn’t think
there’ll be such a war in 1957.
Do we deserve peace? The Prime Minister,
as custodian of Australia’s foreign policy, would
naturally think we do. Dr. Evatt, wearing a hair-
shirt for Australia’s opposition to United Nations
policy over Suez, may disagree. Will we get peace?
The New Year isn’t required to answer that one so
early in its career.
What about prosperity? Individually we’re all
sure we deserve that! But collectively we haven’t
always gone the right wqy about ensuring it. We’ve
all been more-or-less aware that prosperity has
been about the place, but it’s an elusive thing and
always seems to settle on the other fellow. Lumping
ourselves together, we find we’re rather a mixed
lot—politicians, businessmen, trade-union leaders,
farmers, pastoralists, employers, employees,
importers, retailers, bankers, tradesmen and so
on—whose interests in prosperity don’t always
tally. No doubt every single group of us is
convinced that our activities have been, and are,
directed towards securing general prosperity. And
no doubt we’re equally sure that most of the other
groups have been letting the side down in some
degree.
It may be that comprehensive prosperity is
too much to expect of 1957. Perhaps prosperity,
as well as being elusive, is also to some extent
illusory. It always seems to be one step ahead of
us—which may be a good thing for the energy and
vitality of the nation. Certainly more and more of
us have found in recent years that mere money-
prosperity is pot everything. Perhaps it might be
wiser to lower our sights a little and aim at
stability.
If stability is the goal, despite the setbacks of
the year just ended, there are signs that may be
taken as encouraging hope. Wool prices, contrary
to expectations, finished the year well up on the
previous year’s figure, with every chance of holding
the gain in 1957. Latest figures for overseas trade
showed exports up and imports down to a degree
that was not anticipated a few months ago.
The inflationary trend gained strength as 1956
advanced and the cost-of-living figures for the last
completed quarter showed a disturbingly high climb,
but the index included some items (such as increased
tram and train fares) which will not be repeated
next term, and x one (the bloated potato) which is
certain to be sharply reversed. Without those items
the rise in the index last quarter would have been
very small; it is conceivable that the upward trend
could be halted, at least temporarily, this term. If
that should happen it would give a breathing-space
in which the conflicting interests of Our collective
community could get together and try to evolve a
means of maintaining stability. They haven’t done
so in the past, but, after all, 1957 is a New Year.
That being the case, we are entitled to approach it
with hope and say to ourselves (collectively), “All
you wish yourself!”
"Moral Equals"
WITH the British and French out of Suez the time
for making up the balance-sheet of the events of
the past two months is approaching.
Whatever the extent of the errors of the British
and French —which history is likely to rate much
lower than precipitate and voluble (often “loaded”)
cohtemporary opinion—they can at least say
that they have kept faith. Sir Anthony Eden
declared on November 2 that as soon as U.N.
took some effective action to prevent hostilities on
the canal the British forces would be withdrawn.
The U.K. has been very liberal in its interpretation
of the word “effective.” There must have been
great temptation all the way through to take over
the canal and clear it, since passage through it
means so much both to the British and French
economies.
The threats from Moscow, even if made in
double-talk, and the attitude of the U.S. State
Department were a provocation to bolster up the
U.K. national self-respect by staying on the canal
and finishing the job at any cost. The Egyptians
have encouraged similar action, and their behavior
is a growing embarrassment to the U.N. and U.S.A.
They have done everything to make withdrawal
humiliating.
However, throughout the proceedings the
British Government has shown a commendable
restraint. It has not indulged in recrimination. It,
with France, has set an example in keeping calm
and obeying almost to a foolish limit the statutes
of the United Nations which scarcely one other
member out of the assortment of nations which
were so indignant about the Suez adventure is even
attempting to observe.
If Nasser were an obedient member of U.N.,
a man who kept international agreements and
obeyed international law, it might be a different
matter.
But he is an outlaw both nationally and
internationally. At home he is a military dictator,
suppressing all urges to free-speech and democratic
government. He had laughed in the face of the
United Nations when told to permit the Israelis to
use the canal, as they were fully entitled to do, in
peace or war, under the 1888 convention. He had
agreed to an armistice with Israel, but at the same
time has continued to war on the little country
with commandos and to block the canal to Israel
trade. His radio blared day in and day out that there
would be no peace with Israel till its territory was
restored to the Arabs. He was engaged with Syria,
when Israel attacked, in a conspiracy backed by
Russian arms to effect Israel’s destruction. All
this is flagrant derision—open and avowed in most
matters —of the orders of the Security Council by
which he was just as much bound as the British
or anybody else. In fact, he has openly stated that
he looked on the resolutions of the Security Council
merely as “suggestions.”
His seizure of the canal was something that
alone was enough to condemn him to international
ostracism. Yet he has, so to speak, been a favorite
with the world-police. Chief Commissioner
Hammarskjoeld asks his will of him obsequiously,
and it is done. Asiatic neighbors, some of them
about as respectable as himself and some mere
fluttering moths, like India’ which seems to be
attracted to every light that shines, back him up. |
But behind all is the bewildering situation of
the United States. There appears to be much more
than mere indignation in its attitude that it wasn’t
taken into the confidence of Westminster and Paris.
President Eisenhower and Mr. Dulles, having seen
Britain ousted from her position of influence in
Africa and Asia, seem to have decided to suck
those regions into their own hegemony.
When Mr. Nehru arrived in the U.S. Mr.
Nixon, the Vice-President, who received him, told
him:—
You represent the largest democracy in the
world and the United States represents the second-
largest democracy of the world. While we do not
always agree on policy, we share a common
devotion to developing the kind of world in which
individuals can be free, nations independent, and
in which peoples can live together in peace.
There was a lot more of , the same sort of thing,
which led the London “Times” correspondent in
Washington, no servile promoter of British policy,
to write:—
He (Nehru) comes when the latest artifact
of American policy, the new close union of
sympathy with Afro-Asian countries—in which the
United States walks with them as “moral equals,”
as Mr. Nixon put it—is being put to its first test.
It is felt that Mr. Nehru’s active co-operation may
be essential to the success of this policy.
It is scarcely astonishing that the more sober
opinion in the United States is somewhat bewildered
by these new trends. The picture of the American
Republic,.the “land of the free,” being held up by
its Vice-President as the “moral equal” of the
members of the Afro-Asian bloc is strong medicine
even for the most loyal stomachs of the Republican
party.
Nasser, the Hitler and military dictator of
Egypt; the polygamous Libyans; the Indonesians,
whose Government rules by the machine-gun—
when and where it can—and which has been tom
in bits by rebellion and corruption; unstable,
undemocratic Persia; the gaggle of little Arab
countries whose only moral law is in the barrel of
the gun; India, which plays on all sides; and the
rest; these—not Britain and France, the homes and
origipal founts of the world’s freedoms, not Aus-
tralia or New Zealand—are, according to President
Eisenhower’s deputy, the “moral equals” of the
United States.
- This new approach, at a moment when Russia
is at its most dangerous and aggressive, is going
side-by-side with new incautious American plans
for disarmament, “coming closer to Russian
proposals,” which, unless there are some undisclosed
safeguards, can only be viewed with alarm.
It remains to be seen how far the new American
policy can go. The Democrats and moderate
Republicans have shown sympathy with the British-
French viewpoint, absent from the make-up of the
implacable Presidential Administration. The new
Congress, which has Democratic majorities in both
Houses, and which comes into session in a few
weeks’ time, will doubtless reflect the views
expressed by party leaders when it meets.
By that time both the United States and U.N,
will have had time to show what they can do with
the Egyptians and the Arabs, and also the
Hungarians. And what they do will have to be
good. A Republican party which finds itself allied
as “moral equals” to Persia, Egypt, Jordan and
Syria, eke Indonesia, not to mention presumably
with Mr. Aneurin Bevan and his merry men, may
be on very slippery ground when it comes to justify
itself to a national legislature in the light of day.
On the whole, the supporters of the British
line of action may not have to swallow their
humiliation for long. Especially if it should happen
that, for all the might of the United States and
the United Nations, these two dominating factors
in “world morality” and policy have to depend on
British ships and genius to clear the canal for them
—and for Nasser. Especially, also, if they have to
tackle the task of compelling the Israelis to give up
the Gaza strip, and don’t feel compelled to enforce
on Nasser the U.N. orders to allow Israeli trade
passage through the canal.
The measure of their “moral equality” with
other civilised equals will be judged by results
within the next few months.


HAPPY U.N. YEAR!


PLAIN ENGLISH
Indonesian Insurrection
Rebellion in Indonesia points to the
instability which exists in a number of
Asian countries which the United Nations
admits as pillars of freedom and inter-
national honesty and righteousness
(mostly self-righteousness).
There has always been rebellion in
some parts of it since it was proclaimed
a republic by Soekarno and Hatta on
August 17, 1945, after the Dutch had
ruled and developed the islands, or the
accessible parts of them, for about three
centuries. Indonesia has been a full
member of the United Nations since the
end of September, 1950, having been
admitted when it had only a provisional
Constitution and had failed to secure the
adherence to the Government of large
portions of the peoples which it claimed
to rule.
It received the “provisional” Constitu-
tion a month before U.N. admitted it,
and it was five years later that it Had its
first general Parliamentary elections to
choose not merely a House of Representa-
tives but a Constituent Assembly to
redraft its Constitution, which is still very
nebulous and provisional.
The House of Reps, turned out, on
election, to consist of 28 “parties,” a
full dozen of them with only one seat
each, but 102 seats were held by the
orthodox and “progressive” Moslem
parties, 57 by “Nationalists,” and 39 by
Communists, who by reason of their
underground and their influence and
power of intimidation in the trade-unions
are much more powerful than they seem.
Nevertheless the Moslems are in a great
majority.
The real Government is made up of
President Soekarno, with Dr. Ali
Sastroamidjojo as Prime Minister. The
former is a peripatetic glad-hander with
all the natural facility of the babu for
the spinning of quaint phrases and a 10-
ton smile which won the hearts of the
American press. He is the friend of the
Americans when in America, the blood-
brother of the Russians when in Russia.
His Prime Minister is a natural Red,
hand-in-glove with Communism and a
bar in the way of the ambitions of the
Moslem imperialists.
Indonesia is a beneficiary under the
Colombo Plan. Its students come in
considerable numbers, under the benign
arrangements of the Commonwealth, to
Australian universities. The Indonesian
Government shows its gratitude by
occasionally herding Australian tourists
into orderly-rooms, searching them and
frightening the life out of them.
Indonesia is an ardent participant .in
the game of teaching the world
democracy and enforcing human rights
on such barbarian countries as the
United Kingdom and the Netherlands —
but not, of course, in its own territory.
There recent trials of Netherlanders have
been on Moscow or Cairo level. Human
rights in Indonesia are virtually denied to
Europeans, except those bringing aid or
gifts. The continued propaganda in and
out of the U.N. for annexation of West
New Guinea is not basically because the
Government, with its hands full already,
wants it, but because the Dutch have it.
The Army rebellion which appears to
have taken over North and Central
Sumatra, and which has been joined by
Southern Sumatra, is nothing new.
Though Soekarno is titular commander-
in-chief, the military hierarchy has been
in a state of constant resistance to the
Government whose Prime Minister has
sought to Communise and politicalise it. •
Its persistent charges of gross corruption
among Ministers have received no satis-
factory answer—it tried to prevent the
Fbreign Minister going to London for the
Suez conference, demanding that he be
held for trial.
The whole place seems to be in a state
of disorder. The Army—there is no con-
scription—is seven divisions in theory.
It is a nation in itself, and about the most
cohesive force in Indonesia. Whether it
will win and what happens then is an
intriguing problem.
Denial
Even old hands at Melbourne Trades
Hall who have strung along with the
majority on the executive in their un-
healthy alliance with the Reds to keep out
the Anti-Corns, have been shaken by the
reaction to the Hungarian horror.
The bosses of the Trades Hall Council
used every possible device to prevent being
debated a resolution by the Motor Trans-
port Union calling for a 10-minute
stoppage to enable funds to be collected
for the Hungarians, and they succeeded ;
Australians are now the only unionists
who have not given the Hungarians at
least a word of cheer.
This so stirred Albert Monk, the
A.C.T.U.’s chief executive and probably
the nation’s best-informed unionist, who
had just returned from Europe with first-
hand knowledge of the rape, that he
attempted to convene a special meeting
of leading Victorian unionists, but he
was frustrated, and the Reds’ Satellites
slipped into the holidays expecting the
question to be then forgotten.
Stout and his executive are prepared
to condone what has happened to the
Hungarian workers for the contemptible
reward of denying the Anti-Corns, a
criticism of Russia and a hand-out to
the spirited Hungarians.
Wasted Talent
The end of another school-year with
fewer matriculation students than are
needed, a critical report on the wastage of
talent in Australian education, and
alarmed comment from the Employers’
Federation have focused attention on
Education Department aims and plans in
Victoria.
Dr. Ralph F. Berdie, a Fulbright scholar
attached to the Australian Council for
Education Research, has found there
aren’t enough undergraduates to meet the
demand for university-trained people,
possibly because of the waste of talent
when brilliant children left school before
15 ; and he recommends financial aid and
expert counsel for the youngsters who
are worthy of higher education.
N.S.W. makes a much better showing,
according to Commonwealth figures, but
the State’s expenditure on university-
training is not remarkable. There are
three universities in N.S.W., compared
with Victoria’s one, with 1700 people
(600 in Victoria) teaching 12,000 students
(equal to 3.1 a thousand), against* 7000
(2.6).
N.S.W. spends £2BB and Victoria £2Ol
a head a year on university students, equal
to 19s. 7d. and 11s. 2d. a head of their
respective populations. Both are far
below the British expenditure on univer-
sity students of £422 a head a year.
The lack of secondary and technological
entrants for the many openings has
alarmed seriously the Employers’ Federa-
tion, which has suggested the publication
of the Education Department’s outline
of its plans for the next five years,
especially its plans to encourage a better
education that, will produce leaders and
trained talent.
The federation’s concern may be eased
in the autumn when Premier Bolte has
promised a bill for a new Victorian
University of Technology. If it should
cost £1 million a year, Victoria will still
spend less on higher education compara-
tively than N.S.W.
The King and Us
[From “D.S.”]
Melbourne’s first international chess-
congress started off in deadly earnest on
Boxing Day at Melbourne Athenaeum
gallery, from which the paintings had
been cleared to make room for the
artists with rook and pawn.
It will last longer than the Olympic
Games: two-and-a-half weeks, and,
though the international adjective just
scrapes by as truth through the inclusion
of New Zealand and the Philippines,
teams from all States will compete for
prizes worth £3OO.
As there is only a nominal admission
charge to the exciting battles now being
waged by the tense generals in the
Athenaeum’s pale northern light, the
source of the £3OO needs an explanation:
'it is all donated by enthusiasts and some
small business firms, and began with a
hearty £lOO from Arthur Learner, a Mel-
bourne doctor, who was photo-finished in
the Victorian championships by J. N.
Hanks.
The chief chess centre in Australia is
Sydney, due chiefly to the energy of its
protagonists, especially the junior and
senior Purdys, both of whom have been
Australian champions, and to its intro-
duction among Sydney schoolboys much
earlier than in the other States.
Most high, public and technical schools
now have schoolboy clubs; there are
inter-school tourneys, State schoolboy
championships and an Australian junior
championship, closely following the
pattern of the adult players’ programmes.
They are not played at breakneCk-speed ;
the Victorian inter-club games take six
months.
Those who have failed to endure the
rigors of the game and have been elimin-
ated may then adjourn to one of their
own clubs, if they are not out of breath,
or drift into the Melbourne Chess Club]
which is open day and night at 109
Flinders-lane, and roll up their sleeves
for a friendly bout.
I received a cordial welcome, when I
visited the congress on the opening day
m what can best be described as an
atmosphere of hushed smiles, from Brian
Robson, the Melbourne Chess Club secre-
tary, who pointed out some of the person-
alities to me, including Cardoso, a Fili-
pino who had celebrated his 19th birthday
file previous day and who had on a recent
visit to Moscow vanquished 14 of 17
opponents.
There were 12 tables set around the
walls and on them were the inset boards,
big Staunton-type chpssmen, ash-trays,
pipes and cigarettes and the special
double-clocks which time the moves,
*^ acb player is allowed two hours in
which, to make 36 moves.)
Abou 100 spectators had paid the few
o?,h"Sw SS T h' batho “ r -“ d n In ° st
of them were gathered around the Purdy
father and son, who were playing back-
to-back. The onlookers were cordoned-
off the playing enclosure, and some of the
players were walking about behind it or
watching other games. All conversations
were in whispers, or a soft tone.
The chief interest was in the Purdy-
Kuszelansky (Queensland) match. When
the whisper ran round the room that
Kuszelansky had sacrificed a piece, which
is frequently a finesse to make a later
killing, all the spectators crowded to the
table (without a sound).
When I at- last managed to get a look
I saw Kuszelansky’s black king sur-
rounded by white pieces on the white side
of the board, which is equivalent to taking
the goalie away from the posts in a field
game. Purdy, well satisfied, had walked
off, and the bloodthirsty onlookers were
merely waiting for the kill. Kuszelansky
won.
Europeans, who are the world’s best
chess-players, have given the pastime a
great fillip in Australia, and the names
around the walls behind their chairs
included Endzelins (S.A.), Kalinovsky
(S.A.), Koshnitsky (N.S.W.) and Awdiew
(Vic.); but, like the others, they had to
play and keep their nerve on the tea
which was served and brewed from the
centre of the hall.
Productivity Group
«j N THE ACT”: Although “productivity”
- s a com p ara tively recent newcomer to
d artmental jargon> it already has
* , , / ...
att !' act , ed “imposing record of plati-
? udes b V Politicians and o hers. Everyone
(except the Communists, of course)
declares that we must have more pro-
ductivity, and that measures must be
taken to stimulate it; but the only people
who really do something about it are the
individual farmers and manufacturers
who have mostly been doing the same
sort of thing for years,
Most political platforms have planks
pledging some kind of encouragement for
promoting greater output, but political
parties in office are apt to find that
measures such taxation incentives
would be difficult to introduce and un-
, ....
popular among certain seebons. Now we
are !° ¥» a nfw standing commit ee on
Pr? d . u f“ v ity. which m the words of Labor
Minister Harold Holt will have as one of
I s P™. cl P a ! purposes the promotion of
. activities directed to the achievement of
'““eased productivity.
Tt Wlll be informative to discover just
what the committee will do. It is to be a
standing committee of the Ministry of
Labor Advisory Council, and its member-
ship comprises leading manufacturers and
trade-union leaders, representing the
A.C.T.U. It replaces a former sub-
committee which was deputed to
“examine in detail matters before the
council which had to do with the promo-
tion of greater productivity,” and which
doubtless gave some attention to this
rather vague brief,
If the new committee is able to produce
some productivity targets, to explain how
both bosses and workers will benefit if
targets are achieved, to suggest practical
ways in which Government may be able
to assist, and then to propose the kind of
incentives which will enable those targets
to be reached in reality, it will have done
more than any previous group with
similar objectives. The job is ahead of it,
and it will be interesting to learn when
and how it will be tackled.
r T'HE British-French forces have
withdrawn from Suez, and the
Egyptians, who had given them a wide
berth except for hit-run raids in contra-
vention of the cease-fire arrangements,
were able to return safely to Port Said in
triumph and destroy the statue of De
Lesseps and later the memorial to
the Australian Light Horse, under the
eyes of the United Nations’ unprotesting
army—the strangest since Fred Kamo’s.
That “army” will be ripe to leave so
soon as matters are settled with Israel
and Colonel Nasser has got all he needs
from it. He is monarch of all he surveys,
with the United Nations’ blessing.
The management of the situation from
an international viewpoint seems to be in
the hands of Washington and Nehru, and
the gyrations of both are bewildering, if
reports can be believed (of course, they
cannot always be).
Nasser, according to the “New York
Times,” is taking full advantage of a
situation in which the U.N. commander,
Lieutenant - General Wheeler, has
apparently left it to the Egyptian Suez
Canal Authority’s chief to “set up a com-
plete plan to clear the canal” and in which
U.N. has apparently usurped over the head
of the London Conference, with the
approval of the United States, the right
to undertake in New York permanent
settlement talks about the canal.
His ego is no doubt inflated by the
United Press reports from America that
a number of U.S. officials now favor
“a U.S. broad economic-aid pro-
gramme for the Middle East,” and that
the State Department has a “programme
of several hundred million dollars for
Middle East economic aid in the next
year, including the equivalent of
£22,00fy000 for the Aswan project,” the
sudden rejection of which by tHfe same
State Department precipitated the whole
of the present crisis and Nasser’s canal-
seizure—Congress may have something to
say about that.
It is to be hoped that none of these
statements are true. If they are, both
U.N. and U.S.A. will have lost their moral
authority.
Meanwhile the canal is still uncleared.
Nasser himself is still a breaker
of U.N. law, in default with the
Security Council, whose decisions
he has studiously ignored save
when they place compulsion on his
enemies. And he has made it clear that
he intends to continue to defy U.N. and
to work for the utter 'destruction of Israel
STRANGE BEDFELLOWS
[By “Ek Bum”]
along with his Syrian and Jordanian
colleagues-in-disturbance.
In the background of events stands
Nehru, who appears to be the nearest
approach to a human chameleon the
world has seen for a long time.
His Information Department’s latest
issue of hand-outs gives an extraordinary
picture of his mind as it was during his
visit to the U.S.A., where President Eisen-
hower seems to have accepted him as an
ally and co-director of the world, in his
position as activator of the Afro-Asian
bloc. The Indian Information Service
declares that the talks in Washington
“confirmed a broad area of agreement
between India and the United States
which are bound together in strong ties
of friendship deriving from their common
objectives and adherence to the highest
principles of free democracy”—policies
which “the Governments of India and
the United States have evolved on the
basis of respect for the dignity of man and
of the need to improve the welfare of the
individual.”
Mr. Nehru made a speech in the U.N.
Assembly on the day on which he and
President Eisenhower issued a joint state-
ment in which they “confirmed a broad
area of agreement in their Washington
talks.” He “denounced military pacts and
urged the nations of the world to rely on
the protection of world opinion.”
There isn’t, of course, any such thing as
world opinion. There are a number of
contending opinions.
Then he said that “the developments in
Egypt atjd Hungary” had “shown that
world opinion was a strong enough factor
not to tolerate what it considered ‘evil-
doing,’ ” and added that “every country
—weak or strong —will have to think
twice before it does something which
enrages world opinion” :
We have seen in the last few months
how world opinion reacts to what the
world considers evil-doing. That is one
of the healthiest signs of recent months.
Even a country that might be said to be
indulging in wrong actions does so because
it thinks it can carry some part of world
opinion with it. If it cannot, then no
matter how strong it might be, it is difficult
for it to do if. ...We have seen that tjie .
biggest and strongest nations cannot do
their will because of world opinion. There-
fore we have developed a very strong protec-
tion against nations acting wrongly.
No worse babu rubbish was ever
uttered.
The world reaction to the Suez
adventure—the preventive aggression of
{Continued on next page)


Israel, the military check by Britain and
France —has been developed only because
of the sole occasion in U.N. history the
U.S.A. and Russia were able to agree
tacitly to U.N. action. The effect of world
opinion—if such it can be called —has
humiliated the British and French for an
action taken in the interests of peace. Not
a forceful finger has been lifted to enforce
opinion in the case of Hungary.
Yet Mr. Nehru had the gall to say that
the “U.N. had recently shown that it can
face the problems courageously and deal
with them with a view to their ultimate
solution.” The ultimate solution for the
wretched satellite countries of Europe is
being provided by over 40 Russian
divisions either directly engaged or ready
at a moment to engage in wholesale
murder, rapine and genocide. About
that Nehru is complacent. The offender
is a country which he considers Asiatic,
and its offence is therefore negligible.
However, he developed his theme with
some insidious libel on the British for
consumption by the Americans. He
thought “our country and the United
Kingdom whatever ouFpast history of
conflict may have been, have set a good
example when we came to an agreement
resulting in independence and freedom
of India and resulting in further friend-
ship bgtween the two” —the kind of
friendship on Mr. Nehru’s side which has
been demonstrated in the Suez business
and in his bracketing of it in the same
category with the bloody repression of
Hungary by a conquering dictatorship.
The speaker admitted that the “credit
for this (friendship) is due to both parties,”
but he gave the bulk of it to flip Indians,
and particularly to Gandhi:
I may tell you that there were occasions
in India —and many occasions—when there
was tremendous anger and bitterness at
something that had been done. Our people
may have been shot down or beaten down
in public streets. But on no occasion do I
remember even when passions were excited,
that an Englishman could not walk
unharmed through a hostile crowd in India.
It is rather remarkable.
It is, of course, all untruthful and
specious. Mr. Nehru has never heard of
old lady missionaries stripped naked in
the streets by his fellow-countrymen. He
has never heard of the deaths of English-
men who lost their lives while trying to
prevent his own fellow-countrymen from
barbarously engaging in wholesale mas-
sacre of each other at religious festivals.
He has never heard of the murder of Sir
Michael O’Dwyer, V.C., one of India’s
best friends, as far afield as London.
It is almost unbelievable that
sane men should sit solemnly and
listen to Nehru’s sort of talk in an
Assembly which professes to rule inter-
national morals. But it is the measure
of the stuff and the sentiment
and the falsity which are the
fabric of the reality behind the hypo-
critical fagade oikhe United Nations, most
of whom seem only once to have been
united —in pursuit of the two nations
which are the fountainheads of the
world’s democracy and the source of
modern humanised and civilised thinking
and philosophies, Britain and France.
POLITICAL POINTS
Speaking globally, and with the
appropriate accent, “Things are tough—
mighty tough—out West.”
• •
Having destroyed the statue of De
Lesseps, the man who built the Suez
Canal, the Gyppos will now presumably
replace it with one of Nasser, the man
who blocked it.
• •
As a change from complaints at the
growth of the Commonwealth Public
Service, here’s a pat on the back. When
a party from the Taxpayers’ Association
of Victoria visited the Federal Taxation
Department in Melbourne a short time
ago it discovered that although 200,000
extra taxpayers had been added to the
list in the past five years the staff handling
the returns had increased by only 16.
• • •
The three-man team appointed by
Hammarskjoeld to “look into conditions
in Hungary” has suspended its operations.
It can hardly be blamed for that. It’s
rather hard to look into things through
a blank wall and closed doors.
• •
Cardinal Gilroy, on his return to Aus-
tralia from Rome, said that Russia
was frightened—and dangerous (B.
28 /11 / ’56). Pope Pius, in his Christmas
broadcast, condemned the United Nations
for applying two different scales in cen-
suring aggression by member-nations, and
criticised U.N. for “perverting absolute
values” in its approach to two recent
crises of different character —Soviet action
in Hungary and Anglo-French-Israel
action in Egypt. The Pope warned
against a repetition of “the fatal error of
Munich,” and told Roman Catholics that
in present circumstances they may law-
fully go to war under certain conditions.
His broadcast was obviously directed
against Russian activities in Europe.
The Vatican, which lives very close to
Europe’s Communist problems, clearly
takes a grave view of the Soviet’s present
attitude.
• •
When Cahill delivered his Budget
speech on August 29 he said that the rail-
ways deficit for last year was £7,625,997,
but that owing chiefly to increases in
freights and fares he estimated that this
year’s loss would be only about half that
figure—he placed the deficiency at
£3,850,000. He now hints—through a
Government spokesman —that it will pro-
bably be about twice that amount. In
other words the huge extra slug on the
users of public transport will do no more
than keep the loss at the same level as
last year.
The truth is that the Budget estimate
was only a fill-in figure ; it was never
expected to be realised. The estimated
expenditure included provision for the
August basic-wage increase, but nothing
for subsequent quarters although Cahill
had proclaimed his intention of con-
tinuing to* add quarterly adjustments to
all Government paysheets and it was
obvious that his own action in raising
fares, freights and power-charges would
make a rise in the C-series index
inevitable.
Despite this change in the railway
estimates Cahill’s spokesman says his boss
is still sure he can balance the State
Budget. If he can then he’s wasting his
talents in his present job. There'd be a
fortune for him in Wirth’s Circus juggling
elephants while balanced on the high-
wire.
• 8
The highly-civilised citizenry of , Port
Said have been protesting against the
in statue quo principle.
• •
On a population basis Brazil is now
one of the big countries of the world.
Latest official figures show that the 60-
million mark has been passed, thus
putting it ahead of every European
country except Russia. One State, Sao
Paulo, has 10,585,000 people—more
than the whole of Australia ; another,
Minas Gerais, has 8,404,000. Rio de
Janeiro, with close on 3,000,000 people,
is the biggest city south of the Equator.
Yet last week, on a radio quiz, a Sydney
man missed a free trip to America
because he didn’t know the language of
Brazil was Portuguese.
• •
The “democratic” Government of
Indonesia, balanced on a sword-edge ever
since its establishment, seems to have no
more hope of controlling its army than
the equally democratic Arab States.
• •
Clive Evatt, signing himself “President
of the Australian Committee for Self-
determination for Cyprus,” has written
to “S. M. Herald” condemning the
British proposals for self-government in
Cyprus as “fraudulent and reactionary.”
His committee “recommends that the
proposals be unceremoniously rejected.”
It seems a pity so much Evatt talent is
going to seed in Australia. If only Eden
would ask Clive to solve the Cyprus
problem and Hammarskjoeld would get
Bert to settle the trouble in the Middle
East, everything in the garden would be
lovely. After that the two brothers could
go to Budapest and explain to the
Hungarians how the wicked actions of
"We just cant work together — we're completely incompatible."
the British and French in Egypt had
forced the Russians to adopt mildly
punitive measures in Hungary.
• •
No word has yet been uttered about
supplementary Estimates of N. S. Wales
tram and bus losses, placed at £1,835,000
in Cahill’s August guess. That news is
apparently being saved for the New Year.
• •
It seems that the migration-programme
resembles those ingenious nuclear devices
called “breeder-reactors.” The Immigra-
tion Department, claims that migrant
parents, either married to Australians or
to other migrants, have nearly doubled the
migrant contribution to Australia’s
natural increase since 1948, and that in
1955 the “migrant content” in our natural
increase was 28,246 out of 196,917, or
14.3 per cent.
• •
This summer will be the testing time
for polio in Australia. Since the cam-
paign began some months ago 1,121,000
children —nearly half the population in
the age-group from six months to 14
years—have had two injections of the
Commonwealth Serum Laboratories polio
vaccine. Health Minister Cameron
considers the likelihood of a major epi-
demic to be reduced substantially this
summer ; he points out that in areas where
epidemics threatened recently, and where
the rate of immunisation was accelerated
as a preventive measure —in Tasmania
and in Ayr (Q.) —the threat appears to
have been dispelled.
• ' •
“M.F.D.”: The new member for Went-
worth, Leslie Bury, received a rough
handling from radio news-readers before
they could agree on a common pronunci-
ation of his name. Before, polling-day he
was “Mr. Bury,” to rhyme with “cherry,”
but the morning following his election the
A.B.C. labelled him “Mr. Bury,” rhyming
with “fury.” This probably made the
new M.P. furious ; but a few hours later
a commercial announcer described him
as “Mr. Boor-ee,” which scarcely made
amends. Somebody must have got busy
at this stage because thereafter all stations
reverted to the original “berry.”
• •
Adelaide University authorities have
expressed fears that they may not be
able to accept all students wishing to
enrol this year. The Vice-Chancellor says
that South Australia seems to be develop-
ing at a greater rate than other States
and, through welcome social changes, a
greater percentage of the school popula-
tion is going on to the university. The
pressure is particularly great on science
and engineering. “This is a splendid thing
for the State, but there is a limit to the
safe crowding of laboratories.”
The position is that it is certain that the
present lab. space won’t suffice in 1958.
What the Registrar wants to know is
whether it can accommodate this year’s
students. He won’t know till the enrol-
ments are complete.
• • •
A correspondent of Sydney “Herald”
thinks the political commentators are all
wrong in their assessment of the . Wen t-
worth by-election. His explanation of
Bury’s close call is that it was a rebuff to
the Menzies Government for its timidity
in dealing with Communist control of
the waterfront. This seems rather a
remarkable feat of clairvoyance. None
of the four Liberal “rebel” candidates
made Communism on the waterfront an
issue of the campaign, and to most of the
electors of Wentworth “waterfront” means
the sheltered little beaches at Vaucluse,
Nielsen Park and Parsley Bay.
• •
In view of Nasser’s reluctance to allow
British or French salvage-vessels to help
clear the Canal it fs rather strange that he
sees nothing incongruous in claiming the
canal (built by France) or in using the
Aswan dam (built by Britain).
• •
Employees of the lead-smelters at Port
Pirie (S.A.) were told last week that a new
refinery is to be built soon, the present
plant having become too small to cope
with the output of Broken Hill. Other
plans include an increased production of
sulphuric acid and probably a zinc-
refinery. At present zinc concentrates are
sent from Pirie to Risdon (Tas.) for
treatment.
• •
Now that we’re telephonically linked
with Russia, at thirty-bob a minute, any
Federal Parliamentarian wishing to get
in touch with Molotov can ring him up.
Much cosier than cabling.
• •'
Exports of cocoa from New Guinea
are likely to increase quickly in the next
few years, as areas planted some time
ago come into bearing. By 1962 or 1963
the annual rate of exports should be
about 9000 tons, or three-quarters of Aus-
tralia’s present consumption. Nearly two
million cocoa-trees are owned by natives,
and more than 1500 natives are registered
cocoa-growers. The only fly in the oint-
ment is the growing belief that world
prices may fall by that time.
• •
“Jock”: A railway-refreshment-
room monopoly on an N. S. Wales rail-
way-station possibly is understandable ;
but where none is in existence there
should surely be no restriction on private
enterprise. On Nowra (N.S.W.) station
the local newsagent runs a small kiosk,
but he’s not allowed to sell even a box of
matches or a packet of fags. Why?
• •
“Mugga Way”: Wonder what Ernie
O’Dea has to say about the progress of
automatic vending-machines, long popular
in the U.S.A., and now spreading in
Britain? The latest, solemnly announced
by the U.K. High Commissioner’s office
in Canberra, is a “hot-dog” machine,
which holds 280 sausages, cooked in 28
seconds by an infra-red heater. A sand-
wich-machine is planned; also one to
sell ties. Milk-vending machines are
widely used, and Sidney Levine,
managing-director of the concern sponsor-
ing the project, predicts the advent of
fully-automatic self-service shops, offer-
ing “every kind of article for sale.” It’s
all very interesting, but I’m sure nothing
can taste as well as the “hot-dog” fished
out of the can over the brazier outside
the football-ground, shoved into a roll,
smothered in tomato sauce, and proffered
by a grimy hand and with a muttered
“Thanks, mister.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
TVTOW the A.B.C. has become the
' 8.8.C.’s jukebox it’s interesting to
notice that the 8.8. C. had a party to
meet “one of the greatest and most ver-
satile stars of entertainment... .the
gramophone-record.” This was to
publicise their December “Record Week
of 1956” in which they were to play 1600
of their library of 600,000 commercial
recordings.—“Earear.”
“I hope you remember , Higgley , that the United Nations Educational
and Cultural Organisation sent you here to study Melanesian culture
“Dorian”: A platinum-blonde oozed
up to the Information-desk at a city bank
and asked in a baby-squeak for the chief-
accountant. The junior sought the chief-
accountant: “Diana Dors wants to see
you.” The junior spent most of next day
dodging Mr. Dors.
❖ *1" i*
“Tos”: Here is a crop of schoolboy
howlers guaranteed by the examiners in
New Zealand, at the recent annual
exams:
Q. Explain the meaning of “bovine
expression.”
A. A bovine expression is moo.
Michael Savage introduced co.mpulsory
unison.
Q. With what is the name of Baden-
Powell connected?
A. It is connected with a hyphen.
Q. What is meant by childish treble?
A. Triplets.
Cleopatra managed to bring a viper to
her bosom, which had been hidden in a
basket of fruit.
Reference prose states the facts, but
does not pad them with adjectives, verbs,
nouns, and adverbs.
Q. Give a sentence illustrating the mean-
ing of sensual.
A. The one who was described as sensual
. was, I found, pleasant company.
The agricultural course showed me how
to ruin a farm.
❖ ❖ *!•*
“Cash Count”; At Christmas, bank-
tellers are used to counting the contents
of all sorts of home-style safes, but this
time I had two jobs that strained my
goodwill. First was a large shopping-
basket jammed tight with coppers—
allegedly the contents of Dad’s pockets
accumulated over the year. The total
exceeded a tenner. If I were a wife, I’d
wonder if each represented the change
from a glass of beer. A little later,
another woman passed across a lemonade-
bottle packed with threepenny-bits.
Nothing unusual about that, except that
this bottle hadn’t been washed. If you
want a job to try your patience, count
£26-worth of sticky treys.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Loki”: Understand that insomnia is
becoming common among the Top Brass
of N.S.W. Railways, because of the rumor
that EBASCO stands for “Elimination of
Bull and Surplus Clerical Officers.”
“Irving”; Belligerent utterances from
aloft drew my attention to the partly-
completed church-annex across the road.
The vicar came out from his residence
and looked at the scaffolding just as the
two arguing brickies, having agreed to
settle their differences on terra firma, were
preparing to descend. The parson, who
was wearing only trousers and shirt,
started for the annex on an obviously
peacemaking mission, but suddenly
wheeled and retraced his steps to the
vicarage, from which he re-emerged a
minute later wearing his collar and vest.
He arrived at the battle as the antagonists
were shaping-up, whereupon they shame-
facedly dropped their warlike stance and
retreated like naughty schoolboys into
the annex. When the parson, the brickies
and I shared a bottle of ale at the vicarage
an hour later no mention of the disturb-
ance was made, and the brickies have
been working amicably together for
several days since.
* ❖ ❖
“ ’Ermit”; Too true they don’t speak
of “manchester” for household linen in
England (B. 12/12/’56). Was stepping
into a lift at Selfridges in London behind
two Australian women ; one said to the
liftman: “Manchester, please.” He stared
at them for a while, then very gently he
explained; “I’m sorry, Madam, but this
lift only goes to the upper floors of this
building.” The discussion, completely
at cross-purposes, went on for at least
five-minutes —not for worlds would I
have butted-in to explain, and nobody
else had the slightest clue.
* ❖ ❖
“ ’Ermit”: There are at least two other
full-name streets around Sydney (B.
12/12/’56). On my way to work I pass
Wm. Edward-street, which is a tributary
of River-road, Longueville, and later go
along William Henry-street in Ultimo.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“G.M.”: Tasmanians are paying 4d.
each for apples that were selling not so
long ago in the orchards for 3s. a case.
They are also paying 9d. a pound for
potatoes that are going for 3d. a pound
across the Strait in Melbourne. But they
have the laugh on Melburnians who can’t
raise a raisin.
“Apemantus”: Too often, stem self-
criticism is tempered by affection.
♦> +>
“Wapiti”: Campaigns being conducted
by some of the churches to induce bigger
donations recall a rather good effort by a
couple of Moree (N.S.W.) clergymen. At
the time the usual donation was a
threepenny-bit. These two clergymen
decided to hold on to all the trey-bits
instead of paying them into their bank.
The result was an acute shortage of these
small coins in the town, but so far as
the clergymen were concerned, the best
result was that worshippers had to drop
at least a sixpence in the collection-plate.
This went on for several weeks until
businessmen complained to the banks; a
bank-manager heard of the campaign and
told the clergymen to bring the coins to
the bank or he would Send to Sydney for
more.
SWIILIAM'S NEW YEAR AN-
THOLOGY OF UNINVITED
GUESTS
FIVE BAWLS
Night powdering her face with day’s last
embers
In wayback Waggas, wayward
Woolloomooloos,
What is this stridency of riiygbarked
timbres
Falling in altered verticals of noise
To stripe with pain my ghastly annual
blues ?
O bubbling Boy ! O Year that has to be,
Your yowlings irk me! Leave me ; /
would rather.
My desk disposed with neat formality,
Dipping my pen in sweet formaldehyde,
Compose an elegy upon your father!
KXNNXTH SLXSSXR.
THE WATERLILY
New Year, O waterlily
Blushing on the river,
Neither late nor early,
Time’s child ever.
Some people, only some,
Might call you torpid —
They wouldn't know a flowering gum
From an orchid.
Never mind, river child,
l understand ;
Don’t go on growing wild —
Come to my hand . . .
There ! Not a ripple !
I’ll put you in a book
And charge the common people
Fifteen-bob a look.
DXXGLXS STXWXRT.
A MONOLOGUE BY “BUBBLES”
FROM THE PAINTING BY SIR
JOHN MILLAIS
You’ve often seen me blowing bubbles
In velvet with a frilly neck;
Bubbles beneficent or troublous —
I did not know or reck.
Yes, but when you were not looking
Could you be astonished if
l filled my pipe with Papa’s ’bacca
And gave myself a little whiff ?
I don’t know what made me sicker,
Nicotine’s distasteful kiss
Or sitting blowing ruddy bubbles,
Looking such an awful sis.
RXSXMXRY DXBSXN.
COUNTRY NEW YEAR
New Years and all such Scottish cults
Are not for kids but for adults;
They savor of a picnic laid
Like a waitress in the shade
{The sort of trick, I’m telling you,
A city-luncheon couldn’t do—
As Bill the Drover says, “It has
A touch of that French cove, Degas” ;
l rather think he meant Manet,
Or maybe Monet ) anyway,
There is no better place than here
To start a song to the New Year
Where larks are trembling in the ''skies
And only lyrebirds plagiarise,
And every simile’s a smile . . .
And now l think I’ll leave-oiff, while
My joy in it is undiminished,
/ like it like my life—unfinished.
DXVXD CXMPBXLL.
UNCOVERY
I’d dig a grave 1
and speak a prayer
to bury the old year,
giving all I have
as a. surveyor,
starting, say, here,
if I could book
Tasman in, of Heemskirck Shoals
you know, and Cook
if Slessor wouldn’t mind,
and Marriner and such lost souls
we helped to find:
they helped to find us, didn’t they ?
We must retrieve their scattered bones
that point us their reproaches still.
We glorify their names today
but naught in history atones
fpr being out of Hunter’s Hill.
R. D. FXIZGXRXLD.
BLACK LITTLE NEW YEAR
Poor little black boy,
How do you do ?
We were unkind to your father
And his father, too,
Also his father
And maybe his mother:
Long ago, in the dream-time
We killed one another.
But here’s the annoying part:
Just when we’ve learnt
*To treat each other better
We're, due to be burnt;
We’re all going up
In a clever fire
With all the world
Our funeral-pyre. *
It’s a terrible lesson,
Don’t you think ?
We were wrong to be white
Or black as ink,
Yet —this may sound,
Well, indiscreet —»
It won’t be so awkward
As having to meet.
JXDXTH WRXGHT.
ANOTHER ILLITERATE YEAR
I knew, then, in that first, fierce, shudder-
ing shock
That cracked again the crazed terrestrial
brain,
The New Year born, a mouthless,
mumbling crock,
Fingerless as its fumbling mother-clock,
But furnished wi{h two stumps of hands
to cane.
Thus Fate provides a cure-all for her
crimes,
The things a man like me is bound to do
Or else be charged with “Being of his
Times,”
Their dreadful people and their wretched
rhymes —
One can’t afford to let a Moment go:
Fly, then, young Year, being warned that
I despise you,
Through cultural deserts, on to vacuous
veldts ;
If l catch-up, your Ma won’t recognise
you /
An unknown god will use me to chastise
you
As if you were a poem by someone else !
X. D. HXPX.


IF you’re round about these near-
Sydney spots you will find that South
Granville (N.S.W.) Post-office is not in
South Granville, but in Granville proper.
About a mile further south is another
post-office ; this one is in South Granville,
but it’s called Blaxcell Post-office, though
it’s not in JBlaxcell-street, but in Delwood
shopping-centre. Between these two post-
offices is a public school; it’s named
East Granville School, though it’s situ-
ated in South Granville. The South
Granville school is really in West Gran-
ville, and out near the end of Blaxcell-
street there is a large public school which
is called Blaxcell-street School, South
Guildford. Correct postal address for
shops and houses next door to South
Granville Post-office is Granville, not
South Granville. It’s enough to make
anyone go west.—“ Eureka.”
++♦ ❖
“Tidak Makan”: “Doric’s” Londoner
(B. 12/12/’56) who had never been inside
Westminster Abbey has his counterpart
in Canberra. I spent two days in Can-
berra and visited the War Museum, the
National Library, climbed to the top of
Mt. Ainslie and observed the Parlia-
mentary Public Accounts Committee in
action. I also visited my sister and her
husband, Canberra residents of four
years’ standing. They hadn’t participated
in any of the four activities mentioned.
They meant to when they could find time.
They hadn’t missed anything in not seeing
the National Library, anyway; Sydney
suburbs have better efforts.
♦l+ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Pat Decroeus”: After the introduc-
tion of a new parking-system in Perth,
police on the greys that for years have
formed part of the pageantry of royalty
and suchlike openings have returned to
beat-duty. A couple 1 saw in St. George’s
Terrace didn’t seem to like it. And the
sight of a cop mounted on a four-legged
vehicle of limited horse-power bending
down from the saddle to slip a ticket in
gave me the best grin of the day. Another
grin came from a cop who jay-walked
his steed across St. George’s Terrace after
the populace had been sternly warned
against this practice with threat of fines.
❖ *l* ❖
“E.H.M.”: Geelong Grammar School’s
Timbertop received a flag from the Com-
monwealth Education Department with
an enclosed certificate in which the school
was called Geelong Grammer. Much to
my surprise a document arrived later
from the Council of Public Education,
Melbourne, with the same spelling. Com-
monwealth and State, at loggerheads on
other matters, seem united in the resolu-
tion that to er is human, at any rale in
Grammer.
❖ ❖ *l*
“E.M.”: Reading about Low’s grand-
mother giving her Chinese tenants a
weekly dose of senna revived painful
memories. Seeing the stuff brewing on
the hob spoilt Saturday mornings for me.
How 1 suffered, before, during, and after!
Excepting once. Ordeal by senna was
about to begin, when the dressmaker
called (imagine it!) to give Mother a
fitting, and we were left to take it our-
selves. Mine went down the sink, and
when Mother returned and asked if we
had had it 1 said “Yes,” with the goodies.
Perhaps 1 have worked out my salvation
by giving our offspring theirs chocolate-
coated.
♦> ❖ »>
“Dorian”: I spent an hour or so com-
piling a Christmas-card greeting which
ran into a six-line rhymed verse, the
first letter of each line being one of the
letters in my name. Sent the card to a
young lady, crediting her with sufficient
intelligence to discover who’d sent it by
reading the first-letters, downwards.
Subsequently met her. “Thank you for
your card,” said she. Ah, I thought.
“How did you know who sent it?” She
said, “Oh, I know your handwriting /”
•
* ❖
“Lorna Doone”: Some people are well
known by virtue of deed or position ;
others for a few words. A girl residing
on the Murray came into the latter
category; it was surprising how many
people knew of her only by reason of
what she said when, after she had
announced her engagement, a friend
asked to see her ring. Replied the lass
airily, “Oh, I’m not having one; I’m
having a septic-tank instead.”
♦:«* ❖ ' ❖
“Mugga Way”: Whoever wrote about
“a monstrous regiment of women” would
be staggered by the Festival of Women,
“an exhibition by women for women,” to
be held in Wembley, near London, from
June 7 to 29 next. The festival is being
backed by organisations in Britain repre-
senting more than women-
members. The idea originated with the
Women’s Organisation for Economic
Information which advises the Treasury
and the Government; the sort of women’s
organisation, judging by the economic
information which greets the homing hus-
band, that is least likely to be gate-crashed
by men.
♦> *l*
“F.A.M.”: Nine-tenths of the popula-
tion appear to‘ think no training necessary
in anything to do with books —not only
the writing of them, but their purveyance
to the public. Friends of mine, whenever
I have a book published, hasten to tell me
of the wonderful books they could write
“if only they had time.” Having been
a voracious reader for nearly 40 years,
I somewhat hesitantly applied for a job
as a librarian, only to find, when I got
it, that only one other member of the
staff was a reader.
❖ ♦+♦ +>
“W.P.T.*: N.S.W. Milk Board officials
have often complained about breaking
of milk-bottles, each bottle broken costing
the board about sixpence. But board
chairman J. A. Ferguson says that in the
year ended last June seven-million
bottles were not returned; a loss of
£16,000. This works out at a shade over
a ha’penny a bottle. How does this tally
with previous statements that these
bottles cost sixpence each?
❖ *X* ♦>
“Uramao”: A Sydneysider revisiting
his home-town of Christchurch (N.Z.),
which he last saw during the Boer War,
recalls that in N.Z.’s flat city over half-
a-century ago businessmen were rather
adept at slogans; for * instance, in a
Christchurch drapery-emporium window:
“Don’t Botha about De Wet —buy our
mackintoshes.”
❖ ♦> ♦>
*
“Ex Libns”: Apropos book-prices. My
youngsters have been feuding over the
only copy of a popular English children’s
annual, so to preserve peace I ordered a
copy from our newsagent. Price Bs. 9d.
Grannie-in-England sent an identical book
in the annual parcel, marked 4s. 6d.
Ordered a copy of a standard textbook
through the same newsagent (English
publication). Obtained through a well-
known Sydney publishing house, it cost
me 17s. In N.Q. it still had the Sydney
price on the inside cover (15s. 6d.) and
the English price (10s. 6d.) is included in
the list of the author’s books listed on the
dust-cover. Wot price wot price?
»!» ❖ *l*
“Vingter”: Mention of the rash of
blazers indicating prowess at everything
from shove-halfpenny to skiing which
erupted in Melbourne during the
Olympics reminds me of a holiday week-
"Git a length of wire and clean out the pipes."
end during my salad days. In the lounge
after Saturday-evening dinner the wag of
the boardinghouse, espying crossed
racquets on the crest of a blazer worn
by a rather well-built young fellow,
inquired if it denoted honors won at
ping-pong. The wearer explained that,
though the blazer had been won at lawn-
tennis, he happened to have one for
“what you call ping-pong, though it is
correctly known as table-tennis.” On his
tormentor's reply: “Holy Smoke! I’d like
to see that,” the young chap excused
himself for a few minutes and then
returned wearing the table-tennis blazer,
The wag continued his baiting until, after
expressing some doubts as to the mascu-
linity of those who played ping-pong, he
found himself on the carpet. The wag’s
discomfiture was due to sheer ill-luck,
arising from the order in which the
blazers had been worn; their owner, at
Sunday-morning breakfast, sported yet
another coat, proclaiming him boxing-
champion of a well-known G.P.S.
* * *
“Crido”: Venice is a glamorous city,
but the film “Summer Madness” is rather
flattering-everything looks too clean!
We aren't shown the decayed vegetable-
matter floating on the minor canals that
stays there because there’s no rise and
fall of tide, or the pale-faced kids one
sees behind barred windows looking
out on to the waters because there’s no
safe place for children to play in Venice.
r
“F.A.M”: A colonel in World War
11, his nickname was “Twenty-eight days,”
because of his rapping this out as punish-
ment for all misdemeanors. An erst-
while victim who lives in the same country
town happened to meet him in the
plumber’s and came out rocking with
unholy joy. ‘‘The Old Man,” he said
“ —you know how big and heavy he is—
was in earnest conversation with the
plumber. ‘Damn it,’ I heard him say, ‘I
want a wooden seat. I’ve broken two of
those plastic affairs already.’ The plumber
looked doubtful. ‘We have no wooden
seats here. Might get you one in town,
but it’ll take time.’ ‘How long?’ barked
the Old Man. ‘Twenty-eight days,’ said
the plumber.”
*:♦ ❖ ❖
“Ess”: “Wandana’s” par. about “peri-
dromophily”—“the collecting of railway-
tickets” —reminded me of the head of a
London wool firm, who for 30 years has
worked in his spare time on plans for the
oft-proposed Channel Tunnel. He has
worked-out every detail from gradients at
the tunnel-entrances down to the time-
tables for the trains, and has even
designed the railway-tickets. Somebody
think up a name for him.
❖ ❖
“Peter Piper”: From a recent adver-
tisement :
A Qantas-ticket to fly in luxury around
the world, 20,000t't. up, costs approxi-
mately the same per mile as an Australian
city tram-ride.
Still, tram-rides are always going up,
too.
* ❖ ❖
•
“Caveat”: “The Yeomen of England”
is not the only number to have the words
revised politically. I heard a well-known
American colored contralto singing “My
Old Kentucky Home” :
Tis summer the darlings are gay.
You’d be surprised at the politically-
instanced emasculation of many old-time
songs, especially on A.B.C. programmes.
Nowadays there are no such things as
negroes, niggers, darkies, Chinks, or
gossoons.
♦> *>
“Russ”: The evening paper’s front
page carried a graphic story under a
Vienna date-line of street-fighting in
Budapest. In the same issue there was
a three-inch story under a Budapest date-
line of the unearthing of a 13th-century
Hungarian village —a rustic little story
of archaeologists and peasants and
autumn ploughing. The leader mentioned
that we were living in “a topsy-turvy
world.”
* * *
“Taka”: In a New Zealand anti-aircraft
regimjent, when the first Wa’acs were
marched in for training, the first parade
was taken by the R.S.M., whose normal
language had to be heard to be believed.
His address to the new trainees went
something like this: “You’ve been sent
here to be trained as a.-a. gunners. For
a start, let me say that your coming has
robbed me of 75 per cent, of my vocabu-
lary. However, we will do our best to
teach you” At that stage he exploded
with pent-up feelings and thundered, “Oh,
damn and blast you, you’re in the Army
now, and you’ll soon get accustomed to
Army language.” They did —at the double.


PERSONAL ITEMS
New chief of the' Victorian Forests
Commission A. O. Lawrence comes to the
job in a summer of record bushfire and
grassfire risk. Chief fire-protection officer
of the commission from 1940 to 1948,
Lawrence joined it in 1949 and has twice
been acting-chairman. A B.Sc., he also
holds diplomas from Oxford and the Aus-
tralian Forestry School.
• •
“A.C.T.”: Appointment of Air-Vice-
Marshal F. R. W. Scherger, C. 8., C.8.E.,
D. 5.0., A.F.C., as chief of the R.A.A.F.’s
Air Staff (B. 26/12/’56) was accompanied
by an intimation that the R.A.A.F. is
now assured of a sufficient number of its
own officers with the necessary seniority,
experience and ability to provide a steady
and regular succession for its highest post
—for which the term will now be three
years. The Government was stated to
feel that in these times of rapid change
and development a. fresh approach should
be brought periodically to the problems
of the Service and that senior officers
should have prospects of advancement.
Scherger will succeed Sir John McCauley
on March 18 ; McCauley will be promoted
to Air-Marshal.
Another R.A.A.F. promotion just
announced is that of Air-Commodore
H. G. Acton, 0.8. E., Air-Member for
Supply and Equipment, to be Air-Vice-
Marshal. He has served in the equipment
branch of the Service since 1927.
• •
“N.A.8.”: Given up local-government
work, Alderman J. Bales, “father” of
Willoughby (Sydney) Municipal Council,
of which he has been Mayor 10 times. A
former president of the N.S.W. Local
Government Association and an executive
member for years, he is a barrister
specialising in 1.-g. work. He’s a 1914-18
Digger—a sergeant of the 13th Battalion.
• •
Changes in the Film Censorship Board
will bring to the chairmanship Colin
Campbell, for many years (until recently)
private-secretary to former Customs
Minister Senator Neil O’Sullivan. Camp-
bell replaces J. O. Alexander, chief censor
since 1942, who steps into J. G. Bayley’s
shoes as appeal censor. The new member
of the board is to be S. Lemon, a Customs
official who was recently Australian
Customs representative in London.
• •
Ex-4BC Brisbane, where he was
acclaimed Queensland’s top radio-clown,
and now with 2UW, “Birdbrain” Bert
Robertson was bom 28 years ago in Mel-
bourne. Even as a boy, radio was his
ruling passion, and from school he went
to 3KZ Melbourne, where he stayed six
years, starting as an office-boy, trans-
ferring to the technical section, and finally
joining the panel, where he assisted in the
production of Donovan Joyce plays.
Went to Queensland when he was 22 and
joined 4BK, moving to 2MW Murwillum-
bah, general announcer and copy-writer,
BREAKFAST SESSIONS
then the Breakfast Session, which he re-
organised completely, introducing numer-
ous crazy characters. Three years ago he
moved back to Brisbane and 4BC’s Break-
last Session, where his bright, breezy,
unorthodox style gained him thousands
ot tans and critics. Competes in motor
trials ; other hobbies, surfing and tennis.
“Copy Boy Once”: From the time
David Low first began to draw, for The
Bulletin there have always been some
New Zealand artists contributing. A few
who come to mind are L. H. Booth and
Tom Glover (who, like Low, once drew
The Bulletin’s Melbourne page ; later
he did cartoons for Sydney “Sun”), George
Finey (he began with The Bulletin and
became one of the bright young artists on
“Smith’s Weekly”), Noel Cook, Harry
Bennett, Stuart Peterson (who also became
a Sydney “Sun” cartoonist), and George
Prain, who drew outsize Maoris and
Rugby footballers and got mixed-up with
an earthquake. And, of course, there is
still Unk White, who has been drawing
for The Bulletin since a few years after
Low left Australia for London. Unk
also tried his luck in London, and was
doing well there, but missed Sydney’s
sunshine and free-and-easy ways and
turned down several good prospects to
come back. Nothing less than an H-bomb
seems likely to shift him now.
• •
There are certain prerequisites for a
Ko-Ko, a Plaza-Toro, a Lord High Chan-
cellor, or any other of the principal
comedy-roles in Gilsullivan. The player
must be short, nimble on his feet, able to
sing at 150 w.p.m. with clear enunciation,
and able to wring the maximum comedy
out of his association with the formid-
able, middle-aged female whom Gilbert
LIGHT OPERA
obligingly put opposite him. To these
qualifications Grahame Clifford, who
heads the fun-department of the Firm’s
current Gilsullivan season in Sydney, adds
for good measure a tiptop baritone
voice, which he occasionally tosses into
soprano territory to pull down a laugh.
Clifford “came up” through grand-opera
—an unusual reversal. Celebrated for his
characterisations of Alberich in Wagner’s
Nibelung “Ring” and as the sardonic
Beckmesser in “The Mastersingers,” he
has been a familiar figure at Covent
Garden, the Paris Opera, and at the
Theatre de la Monnaie (where Melba
made her debut). He has also sung exten-
sively in musical-comedy (principal bari-
tone in “The Beggar’s Opera” and
“Merrie England”), and is no small beer
as a singer of lieder. He fills his' present
role—that of the cocky little Major-
General Stanley in “The Pirates of Pen-
zance” —in the best D’Oyly Carte
tradition.
• •
Back in New Zealand with a swag of
academic distinctions after eight years’
absence, Dr. Brian Hayman. He will fill
a newly-created job as mathematical
geneticist with the Dominion’s Depart-
ment of Scientific and Industrial Research.
• •
Mrs. Harriett Blake, who has passed
on at Kogarah (Sydney), had interesting
links, as well as being specially interesting
herself. After her husband (Mayor of
Kogarah over 60 years ago) Blakehurst
was named. Kogarah Council lately
changed the name of Junction-street,
where she lived, to Blake-street —in her
honor. Her home there had been greatly
admired for half a century: all the fossils,
thousands of waterworn pebbles and
sandstone-pieces—oddities of shape and
color —unearthed in near-by Blake’s
Quarries and worked into the front of her
cottage ; and in her curious and beautiful
garden, many singular varieties of timber
from the same source ; with rock-plots
on the footpath as beautiful as the garden.
• •
Kevin Cahill, 22-year-old share-farmer
of Nangeenan (W.A.), receives this year’s
award of the International Farmers'
Exchange Scholarship, which is spon-
sored by the Commonwealth Bank, and
awarded to the candidate selected by the
Junior Farmers’ organisations of each
State in turn. This is the first time the
award has gone to Westralia. The
scholarship entitles the winner to an air-
passage to the U.S. and a five-months’
tour of farms there. Four years ago,
Cahill was sent to the Adelaide Royal
Show as the outstanding Junior Farmer
under 21. An inter-school rower, foot-
baller, and all-round athlete, he was. also
a finalist in the State shearing champion-
ship. More recently he has devoted atten-
tion to cross-breeding cattle, and to soil-
erosion and fodder-conservation.
• •
Sailed away beyond, Captain Jimmy
Duncan, well-known in New Guinea.
Product of the Quarrier Homes near Glasgow,
he learned his trade in the windjammers —
experience included being shanghaied in South
America. Before War Ihe was pearling around
Thursday Island and N.E.I. Holder of the
sailing-record from Aru Islands to Darwin (to
save a man’s life). Cruised through War I
patrolling New Guinea waters; was chased
by raider Wolf, after capture of Matunga, but
escaped by sailing through reefs where Wolf
wasn’t game to follow. F.R.G.S. following
exploration-work along the Ramu River in
1920.
Sometime harbormaster in Rabaul, he went
ashore to his plantations, Rapopo and Tamalili,
in 1926. Rapopo became a Jap airstrip in War
II and was not much improved by Allied bomb-
ing. Duncan commanded the last vessel to
leave Rabaul on the night the Japs landed —a
small schooner crowded with R.A.A.F. ground-
staff and civilians." He brought the schooner
to Sarharai unrelieved at the wheel, and was
congratulated by the Navy on his feat. There-
after served with Merchant Navy until 1946.
Because of his detailed knowledge of New
Guinea waters and personally-drawn charts of
anchorages, he was flown by the U.S. Navy to
Noumea to assist in planning the island land-
ings. Spent post-war years rebuilding his
plantations but also found time to help-out as
acting harbormaster in Rabaul. Eighty-two
when he weighed anchor for the last time in
Sydney.
• •
Victorian Rhodes Scholar for 1957 is
English-born John Roland Howes, who
plans to become a Methodist minister.
At Melbourne University he won a blue
for athletics, and was picked in the Vic-
torian athletic squad for Olympic selec-
tion as a distance-runner. The South
Australian Rhodes Scholar has also been
chosen —David Evans, who recently sat
for the final Honors paper in Economics
at Adelaide Uni. His sights are on the
diplomatic service. Sports are cricket
(he played for University in Adelaide’s
A-grade pennant), football and athletics.
• •
Kathleen Moore, who has passed on at
Wellington (N.Z.), did a man-sized job
for New Zealand in War I. She was
working in the N.Z. Refrigerating Com-
pany’s London office and, following the
sudden death of the head salesman, took
on the duties of the enormous sales of
meat on the Smithfield market, being the
first woman to hold such a job. She
managed the office and negotiated sales up
to the time when the entire output of
meat was commandeered; then she
became responsible for the distribution
of Australian and New Zealand meat for
weekly civilian consumption. Later, for
Associated Meat Importers Committee,
she was organising distributor of N.Z.,
Australian and U.S.A. meat.
• ■ •
Melbourne Junior Chamber of Com-
merce, whose members overall aren’t
really junior, has at least got hold of a
comparative young-’un as president for
1957. He is Leslie M. Perrott, jnr. It
isn’t so long since he was lifting an angry
student-voice against civic reactionaries,
and since he has become a partner in the
architect firm his father leads, Leslie M.
Perrott and Partners, he hasn’t toned it
down noticeably. Every now and again
Melburnians hear blasts about poor old
people being worse-housed than grey-
hounds ; lack of hotel-accommodation ;
extravagance of some family-housing;
the prejudice against new building-
materials, and the bias against multi-
story flats. Perrott and his wife, on
bikes, lately made a tour of much of the
older civilisation.
• •
Gordon Wallace Kennedy, who at 49
has taken over the g.-m. chair of Aus-
tralian Guarantee Corporation, joined
the then-infant company when he was
21. Three years later he was selected
to put the co.’s first financial plough into
Queensland soil. That was in the tough
early ’thirties, when either lending or
borrowing was really an art. But the
harvest proved rich. He stayed there 20
years, becoming a familiar figure in every
HIRE-FINANCE
town in the big State in which there was a
car-deaier to cultivate, was president of
Brisbane Chamber of Commerce, an
original member of Queensland’s Board
of Adult Education, and captain of Royal
Queensland Golf Club —in those days
he was playing off eight, but he’s content
to stick around 15 now at Sydney’s
Australian Golf Club. Owner of a
won’t-wear-off smile that’s guaranteed to
make even a client who has been declined
accommodation go away without holding
a grudge, he returned to his native N.S.W.
in 1951 to become assistant g.-m. of what
had grown into one of the two giants of
Australia’s car-finance world. Well
known in Rotary.
• •
“P.0.M.C.”: Passed on suddenly at
61 at Gosford (N.S.W.), Colonel Garnet
Adcock, a dietetics expert with several
papers on the subject to his name, and
guiding-light of Justfrute, fruit-cordial
manufacturers. Just before his death
he managed to isolate and crystallise a
new vitamin found in the pith of citrus ;
he had high hopes it would master the
common cold. A Digger of both World
Wars, he brought home a Belgian girl as
his wife from the first one. As likeable
and unassuming a cove as you could meet,
he will be as sorely missed in Sydney,
where he had a host of friends, as he
certainly will be missed in the citrus-
growing capital.
• •
“Symonym”: Ted North was a cracker-
jack policeman. He was painstaking, in-
telligent, affable, and, though born a
Briton, an Australian gentleman. Most
policemen have one or two of these quali-
ties, but when you get them all in a man,
sbmeone will pay him three times as much
as they pay policemen. He went to both
wars, headed. the Queen’s bodyguard in
1954, organised Victorian civil defence,
ran a special squad for delicate, ticklish or
secret work, and talked the better water-
siders, when the Force was at its weakest,
into not winking when their mates
pillaged. He died Superintendent Charles
Edward North, M.V.0., at Heidelberg
Repat. Hospital last week.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 71, A. W. Dye, vice-president
of the Australian Association of Consulting
Chemists. He was also a handwriting expert
for the Bank of N.S.W. and the Commonwealth
Bank.
At Telopea (Sydney), at 92, Burton Edward
Sampson, who began schoolteaching in n.-w.
N.S.W. in the ’eighties, laffer moving to Tam-
worth, and, on retirement, was in charge of
Bringelly public school. His grandfather was
one of the early landholders at Orange (N.S.W.).
Great grandfather Sampson came to Australia
as a whaler in Sydney’s youthful days.
In Perth, at 69, Harold John Knuckey
Johns, former Government viticulturist, and
recognised authority on the history and the
social customs connected with the making and
drinking of wines. Before joining the W.A.
Agricultural Department he had experience in
the vineyards and wineries of other States.
Judged wine at Westralian Royal Shows for 26
years and was a member of the Australian Wine
Board for 23 years.
In Melbourne, at 54, Detective-Inspector
William Charles Tremewen, a few days after
attending the Olympic Games closing-ceremony
as head of the Olympic C. 1.8. squad. One of
Victoria’s best-known police-officers, he was
senior detective-sergeant in the Homicide Squad
(1948-52), and in 1952 helped to arrest and
convict William O’Meally, murderer of
Constable Howell.




ABORIGINALITIES
THE tobacco-pipe, known to the Torres
rnnW St w S * 1 ? an u der long before Captain
Cook hoisted the flag, played an im-
m dlvination - When a man
of rhfannl S ° f out , m his canoe in search
° r tU , rtle he P re Pared the big
-pipe they were anything up to
d ard i° n S filled the short, projecting
tube with tobacco, and then went into his
house, where, hanging on the wall, would
be the grinning skull of his father. Inhal-
ing & big mouthful of smoke, he would
puff it into the mouth of the silent looker-
on, saying: “This my last tobacco now;
1 give you smoke; you show me where
dugong or turtle he stop.” The smoke,
returning gently from the skull, whispered
“Whff, whff!” Out at sea the hunter
and his friends kept ears alert, and
presently would hear, a little to one side,
a dugong faintly blowing “Whff, whff!”
In this way the man’s father, by means
of the creature’s breath, led it by sound
to the place where the hunters waited.
The old fellow who told me about it was
quite confident that the magic worked.
—“C. Coral.”
* * * *
“Miss M.”: My most treasured book, a
first edition of In the Days When the
World Was Wide, by Henry Lawson, was
bought hot from the press by my father,
then a very young man. He bound it
lovingly in a home-tanned basil, which
has stained it somewhat, but held it
together through its many wanderings.
It is in a very good state of repair, marred
(not for me) by only an occasional
marginal note. One of these has intrigued
and mystified me for years. Written after
the last line of the poem “Marshall’s
Mate,” it says, “If McKenna had been
such a man as ‘Marshall’s Mate,’ Joe
Selby would in all human probability be
alive still, instead of which his bones
are bleaching in the Central Australian
Desert.” The note is dated 16/2/’97.
Can anyone tell me anything of the
tragedy referred to?
* * He *
“Sackville”: I’ll always regard it as
one of the prettiest sights I’ve seen: a
young wallaby resting from the midday
sun in the shade of a clump of scrub.
Her back was upright and leaned against
a sapling-trunk, her very long, thin tail
curled between her hind legs and
stretched out in front with the tip point-
ing straight ahead, her head bowed
between two little black-tipped paws. She
looked like a sleeping child. As some-
thing disturbed her she looked up,
showing a pretty little face with a black
marking down the nose. A truly beautiful
little creature, but a variety of wallaby I
could not identify. Later I asked an
old bushman could he establish the
variety. “Give me a look at the skin,”
was his immediate answer. Shoot it!
Lord, a man capable of pulling a trigger
on such an innocent little creature
wouldn’t hesitate at homicide.
• • • *
“Agricola”: A North Queensland
school is next to the race-club. A total i-
sator was built on what was thought to
be club property, but later on was found
to be part of the school. A gentlemen’s
agreement has left it there —the only
school I know with a full-size tote.
"I love the Way you Europeans pay such close attention to your work."
“Wotinell”: Two of my cobbers
received an official intimation that unless
they stopped their unlicensed sawmill
dire consequences would follow. So they
unhitched the antiquated “Fordson” from
the home-made sawbench, and dismantled
the docking-saw swung on a near-by
sapling. An inspector of the Forestry
Department was satisfied that the mill was
then “out of operation.” In the Welfare
State of Queensland it’s a crime to cut
your own fruit-cases, from* your own
timber, on your own property, to pack
your own fruit to send to market. You
must buy cases from a licensed sawmill,
made by union labor, so that the poli-
tician’s bosses of our Workers’ Paradise
"If’s just gone midnight—happy New Year , Mr. Crosby !”
—the A.W.U. members —can enjoy the
benefits of the alleged 40- (but actually
36-) hour week. With pineapples at 255.
a case, and bought-cases costing 7s. each,
my only remark is the one with which
I began this par.—Wotinell!
* * * He
“Sandpatch”: Opening of new
premises for the E., S. and A. Bank at
Tennant Creek recalls the extreme casual-
ness of the digger-depositors in the first
tin-shed branch. Manager Jack Williams
was awakened by a hammering on the
wall. Without getting up, he called out
“Who’s that?” “I want to make a
deposit,” a voice replied. “Throw it in
the window,” Jack called out. Two
seconds later he just missed being brained
by the “deposit”—a bar of smelted gold
worth £3OOO, which was duly credited
to the depositor’s account.
* * * *
“Bettibelle”: The 3000 inhabitants of
Goondiwindi (Q) are divided on the pro-
nunciation of their town’s name. About
half of them pronounce it “Gundiwindi”
(as does the A.8.C.), but the evidence of
old-timers supports the correctness of the
other version, with the double-o pro-
nounced as Gracie Fields would say it.
Goondi was an everyday ungenteel word
in the local aboriginal dialect, and
“windi” means a bird, probably a shag
or duck. Old hands say the town got its
name from a huge log which in the
middle of last century spanned a water-
hole on the outskirts of the town. Hun-
dreds of shags frequented this spot and
the log was white with their droppings.
Hence Goondiwindi, or excrement of
shags
“Woorarra”: Nominate the crested
bellbird as our finest feathered ventrilo-
quist. Seeking this fowl in scrublands of
the interior I have been again and again
fooled by the elusiveness of its beautiful
bell-like notes. These calls are not only
mysterious as to direction—many birds
are capable of this kind of chicanery—
they are equally confusing as to distance.
When I first saw the bellbird its manners
and movements reminded me
immediately of the bowerbird, and this
impression was reinforced when I realised
that the crested fowl was also a gifted
mimic. However, there is no relationship
that I know of between these avian
artists.
* * * *
pLSEY STATION homestead, now
A “' beautifully situated on the bank of
the Roper River 30-odd miles from
Mrs. Aineas Gunn’s old home, was often
visited by our own and Allied servicemen
during the last war. At the sound of
approaching trucks all piccaninnies from
the near-by camp would rush to the
roadside and put on an impromptu
corroboree; it never failed financially.
Often a truckload of servicemen would
pick up several small abos. as guides and
go on to the Red Lily Lagoon. There I
recall seeing a tall R.A.A.F. sergeant,
clad in tropical helmet, shorts and boots,
striding along, his arm round the
shoulders of a small, skinny pic. patter-
ing beside him, both talking hard and
finding language no barrier. The kids
would wade into the lagoon and root
in the mud for lily-bulbs, a favorite item
of food. Incidentally, it would be
impossible to overstate the beauty of those
blooms, like gigantic tulips.
The homestead still employed a
Chinese cook, who, though no Cheon,
was quite a character. When he wanted
to bathe in the river he would take
several piccaninnies with him and send
them in first. Having thus made sure
there .were no lurking crocodiles, he’d
wade in until the water, when he sat
down, would be the right depth to come
up to his neck. Then he’d sit down,
holding an umbrella over his head and
presumably contemplate.
He was mortally afraid of snakes, so
when the eggs began disappearing from
the fowlyard he decided his reptilian
enemies were around, and suspended his
bed high off the floor by ropes slung
from the rafters. A few mornings later
he woke to see, running right across the
earth floor and beneath his bed, the tracks
of the egg-stealer—a large crocodile.
MISS M.
THE AFGHAN KING
When l was small and silent and forever
wondering,
Up on the Mad-wind Mountain l saw the
Afghan King.
I looked at the fierce hooked features, the
proud lift of the head,
“He is no camel-driver. He is a King,” I
said.
“Do not walk by the Mad-wind Moun-
tain,” my mother said in fear,
“Strange spirits move on the mountain.
In the still of night I hear
Them moan in the lonely darkness.” But
my bearded father laughed.
“Only the wind on the rock-face. Only
the wind,” he chaffed. *
But l loved the rock-strewn mountain
where the winds rode whimpering,
And I would go to the mountain to see
the Afghan King
Sitting on a rock-ledge or outlined against
a tree;
And, once, as I stood there watching, the
mountain spoke to me.
It spoke and its vqice was silence but,
standing there, I knew
The words that fell through the sunlight
were meant for me and true.
“Look on my ancient rock-forms, there
are memories to trace,
More numerous than the wrinkles on
Grandmother India’s face.
There are stories, old as sorrow, but in a
different garb
Than those told on the farmlands of your
father’s home, Punjab.
There is music, strange and secret, and
songs far sweeter here
Than those sung on the rivers of your
mother’s loved Kashmir.”
I blinked in the blinding sunlight and the
mountain seemed to sing;
My heart beat loud within me and l stared
at the Afghan King,
For I knew now why he waited, why he
sat there stern and still;
He guarded the sad lost legends locked up
in that mad-wind hill.
So each morning, near the mountain, I’d
bow in a deep salaam,
And ask the King and the mountain for
the magic word, the charm.
I said, “l am small and silent and l
cannot read or write.
All tales that were ever told me l keep
in my heart held tight.
Stories of wandering hawkers, tales from
the camel-team,
Songs that my mother sang me at night
in the lamp’s gold gleam.
But no one has ever told me,” and I
stretched out an eager hand,
“No one has ever told me a tale of my
own birthland.”
I raised my eyes to the mountain, to its
twisted rocks and gums,
And waited to hear the word-charm, the
sound of far-off drums.
But no words came from the mountain
and the King sat there in state,
The day grew hot around me and the kind
wind whispered, “Wait.”
One day, as I played in the paddock, l
saw two neighbors run
Along the path to the mountain —the
sunlight gleamed on a gun.
One, as he passed me, shouted, “Tell your
dad we are off to kill
An eagle, a giant eagle, up on your prey-
stone hill!”
The bright world dimmed with horror ;
I ran and caught at his hand.
But my words were wild and breathless—
he did not understand.
Still I ran and sobbed and pleaded and
crie d to the placid sky,
Oh Allah, I cannot bear it! If they kill
him let me die.”
The gun went off and its thunder made
hill and paddock ring.
But it could not spoil the magic or harm
my Afghan King.
He flew from . Mad-wind Mountain,
beyond the range of the gun,
p through the shining heavens to the
golden arms of the sun.
N.S.W.
MENA KASHMIRI ABDULLAH.


TWO couples from our North Queens-
land town visited the Games ; the
males found their customary ten-gallon
hats and high-heeled elastic-sided boots
Open Sesames to cafes, ferry-boats,
cinemas, clip-joints, two-up schools and
other places usually difficult to enter.
They even gave immunity in driving a car
the wrong way down Pitt-street, Sydney.
A cop yelled “Hey! Where the hell d’you
think you’re going?” A couple of
seconds’ deliberation, and one of our
heroes drawled slowly, “Julia Creek,
mate.” —“Benbow.”
• • * *
“Quo Vadis”: The owner of the old
bomb was a regular customer, a bad
payer, and a hopeless mechanic, The
unlucky garageman thought longingly of
the money owing, and listened sadly to
the piston-slap, timing-gear knock, and
a medley of other audible results of years
of wear and tear. “What do you think I
ought to do about that?” asked the client.
“Tuff y’ ears wit’ totton ’oil,” said the old
garage-man, “an’ ferdit abaht’t!”
* * * *
“Wester”: He was sitting on the
caravan-steps with an upraised pannikin
of hot tea when the willy-willy struck
from behind. Wham! went the unlatched
door, wedging the pannikin on to his
chin and nose, sloshing the scalding con-
tents in his face —a hospital job.
* * * *
“Narumee”: In Land of Swift-Run-
ning Horses, Mabel Wain Smith is
regaled with Mongolian cuppas—tea
“ Atom-bombs fiddle-faddle !”
boiled in a cauldron with milk, and laced
with cooked millet and lumps of mutton.
She even says she enjoyed it —for break-
fast. I once managed to sink a Tibetan
cuppa—of milkless tea topped with a
chunk of rancid butter, appeasing my
Tibetan hosts by turning the retch into a
plausible imitation of a polite belch.
The millet was served in tall, bamboo
cups, Into which boiling water was
poured, and the mixture assisted to brew
by squeegeeing with utensils like outsize
swizzle-sticks. The result was drinkable,
but I didn’t realise how potent until I
emerged into the icy air of a Himalayan
autumn and my knees became liquid
rubber and my head a humming-top.
But all this and mutton too! It’d be my
muttons that returned to me if 1 ever
graced a Mongolian tea-party!
* * * *
“Bon”: “Naturala” is a bit off-line
about the pressure in “cupping” (B.
28/11/ ’56). The atmospheric pressure at
sea-level is 14.21 b. per square-inch. As a
large amount 1 of warm air still existed
under the horn the pressure of release
would be low, probably a few pounds to
the square-inch. In Bolivia, where I was
“cupped” in 1930 to relieve congestion,
six small crosses were lightly cut across
my back in the region of the lungs ;
brass cups, heated by burning methylated
spirits, were applied and a small amount
of blood was drawn from each cut. It
certainly gave relief.
* * * *
“Bows”: About a year ago some
Horsham (Vic.) archers successfully tried-
out their longbows against wild-pigs in
south-western N.S.W. Soon four of them
will test on the buffaloes of the Adelaide
River (N.T.) their specially made cross-
bows of 3001 b. velocity, theoretically
capable of killing even such big game.
For, use only in emergencies, they will
also carry rifles and guns.
* * * *
“Ceg”: Compared with an honest
English yeoman of the time of Charles II
we still have a long way to go before we
equal what was regarded as a reasonable
daily beer-ration in Devonshire: a pint
at breakfast-time, a pint-and-a-half at
11-o’clock and a quart or so at dinner.
After that, no more until the afternoon,
when the need for another couple of pints
would be felt. Supper called for a mere
half-gallon. Home-brewed, of course,
and I wonder how it would compare with
the product of a modern brewery.
* * * *
“Zakha”: Could I come in at the tail-
end of this discussion on the transits of
the planet Venus? In Bernard O’Dowd, by
Victor Kennedy and Nettie Palmer (1954),
it is related how the poet very early had
absorbed the story of the transits, so
that, at the age of eight, he very solemnly
told his teacher and fellow-pupils at the
little Snake Valley school, near Ballarat,
of the coming “great event” (the transit
of December 9, 1874). But Snake Valley
had little contact with the world of
science, and the tale was greeted with
“amused tolerance by the teacher and
open mockery by his classmates.” Then
the day came; and Venus was seen “like
a black midge on the face of the sun.”
To cap his triumph, young Bernard
produced at school some fragments of
glass, smoked and ' prepared by his
policeman-father, through which the
doubters and scoffers could clearly see the
transit.
* * * *
“Swelpme”: Water with a salt content
is rightly held to be one of the greatest
purifiers known: a wound washed
immediately in brine will seldom fester.
And yet, sustain a scratch from a sub-
merged shellfish and the wound, even
though cleansed in saltwater, will develop
into a festering sore. The explanation
must be that shellfish are coated with
some poisonous secretion as a means
of defence. On the other hand, shellfish
provide a good percentage of the food
of eels, therefore it should follow that
an eel’s teeth are laden with infection.
But it doesn’t. I’ve had a couple of nasty
bites, and seen fingers ripped almost to
the bone when reckless bait-hpnters
groped under ledges which concealed eels,
and always the wounds healed* rapidly.
* # * *
“Spin”: W.A. has four species of
plovers: the masked plover of the north,
banded plover of the south-west and
inland, and a couple of species that nest
in the Northern Hemisphere and spend
the summer in the south-west. The spur-
winged plover, common in the eastern
States, hadn’t been sighted in W.A. until
a few weeks ago, when one was shot by
a party of naturalists who evidently con-
sidered this was the only sure method
of identification. Perhaps it was, but this
penchant for destroying birds
just because they’re strange is
particularly obnoxious in the
big State, where there seems
to be a definite, and large-
scale, redistribution of the
avian population. The straw-
necked ibis is now common
over almost all the south-
west, which it started to
invade about 60 years ago,
after settlement had made
conditions suitable for it.
More recently cattle-egrets
and white ibis from the
Kimberleys have appeared in
the south, and last year I saw
near Perth a red-backed king-
fisher —strictly a north-west
and wheatbelt bird. Shooting
any such strange birds
possibly means destroying
the vanguard of an allied
force. The straw-necked
ibis, for instance, is a good
ally in grasshopper-control.
# * *
“C.”: The little black
native-bee, which provides the
aboriginal of Cape York with
supplies of “sugarbag” (wild-
honey from hollow trees),
goes in for a varied menu.
When our ack-ack men were
stationed in the region of
Jacky Jacky during the war
the guns were cleaned and greased at
regular intervals, but the lads were
surprised to find the big weapons
very soon bereft of their oily pro-
tective coating until they spotted hordes
of the small black bees on the job.
They apparently found the stuff tasty.
Across at Thursday Island a black-bee
family discovered a tin of blood-and-bone
fertiliser that had been left in a building,
and, entering through an incredibly tiny
opening, they set to work on honey-
production. It was only after some time
that the bee-music within the tin gave the
show away. Their black wax is used by
the abo. for various purposes. Worked
up into a lump about sin. long, into which
bright-red bush-seeds are pressed, it makes
a splendid head for his fire-stick when he
goes walkabout.
* * * *
“Fairf”: Digging out sloppy mud
around the leak in a water-service, the
plumber saw a writhing body wriggle
back into the mess. Turned out to be an
eel about 15in. long. How it came to be
buried in thick mud on an otherwise
dry road more than a mile from the
nearest creek was still causing specula-
tion when two Water Board employees
came along. They were not surprised.
They’d found ’em in the queerest places ;
matter of fact the watermains were full
of ’em —evidently they got in when they
were as small as threads. What did they
live on ? Well, the mains had plenty of
small, freshwater-shellfish. But all that
didn’t explain the 15-incher —it could not
have wriggled through the tiny leak in the
water-pipe. The only explanation seems
to be the old one that eels go wriggle-
about at night, and will dig in anywhere
wet enough. As a test the plumber
shovelled it back near the hole; it
promptly burrowed down in the thick
mud.
* * * *
THAT large six-winged insect described
by “Kelms” (B. 5/12/’56) could have
been introduced into Australia by Russia’s
Olympic team.
It was previously recorded • only
from Russia, by the famous soldier,
traveller and popular-scientist Baron
von Miinchhausen. The Baron reported
having seen a large moujik carried off,
wrapped-up, and entombed in black mud
by an enormous, black, six-winged insect.
The threads produced by it were so strong
that they were used in the manufacture
of an untearable feminine garment for
the Tsarina Ekaterina 11.
Modern Russian writers have contra-
dicted this traveller’s tale, stating that
what he saw was a small black triplane
(invented by a Russian engineer in 1750),
transporting the corpse of Catherine’s
husband, Peter 111, who was liquidated
by the strangling hands of Strong Alex,
the brother of her boy-friend, Greg
Orloff, who gave her the famous Orloff
Diamond. The silk-like material was
nylon (invented by a Russian chemist in
1752), and the “mud” was a thermo-
plastic material, obtained from Caspian
bitumen, in which the inventive Slavs
anticipated the American gangsters’ much
cruder wet-concrete sarcophagus.
As the Baron’s observations were
generally very reliable, we may reject these
attempts to discredit him, and we may
assume that what “Kelms” saw was a very
small specimen of the Dingbat Wasp,
which, when not quite on the level, has
the playful habit of dragging its victim
up the garden path by pulling his leg.
EX-PED.
PACIFIC HIGHWAY, BEROWRA
Here, where the rock was raised for
ordination,
And the long low-lying sea put down for
luck,
Some monumental ass has laid a tomb-
stone
At thirty-bob a yard, cut, poured, and
struck,
Whereon with reel and rout the Resur-
rection
May well be danced at fifty thousand per ,
With each damned mile an automotive
period
And each damned spot a fossil crucifer.
Roll on, thou dark and deep blue
progress, roll!
Ten thousand centuries look uninformed
And unappeased addwn. Let’s not be still
One bleeding minute. Spin the wheel
And bear away the gory head of time, •
The profit and peculiar of a fine fan-
dangle,
Halfway between the rock and waterline.
N.S.W.
JAMES JUMTER


IX L
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of
JAMS
CANNED FRI/ITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build*
ings. Junior House separate
from tbe rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Taking Up the Slack
TN 1957 not only manufactur-
ing and productive skills will
be needed in the Australian
economy: there will be added
emphasis on marketing and
financial techniques.
Not that productive skills will
be any less necessary; they will
be more in demand than ever,
since marketing becomes so
much easier if the product being
sold can be made at lower cost
than the products of competitors.
Skill enters considerably into the
question of manufacturing cost.
But the emphasis on market-
ing and finance arises from the
fact that many goods are now in
abundant supply for the first
time since 1940, and at the same
time, because of rising costs and
an unsatisfactory balance-of-
payments (however much it may
be improving), the credit
position is extremely tight.
Australia is now an exporter
of steel-plate, sheet-steel,
galvanised iron, seamless tubes,
and water- and gas-piping. The
production of wire and wire-
netting has been cut back
because of the fall in demand..
Not for many years has Aus-
tralia been so well supplied (or
oversupplied) with some steel
products, though it is still
necessary to import considerable
quantities of structural steel.
All industries making
“durable consumer-goods,” with
the exception of the new TV
industry, are operating at a
lower level of activity. Higher
sales-tax has been a factor.
Import-restrictions are helping
the market for some things, but,
overall, retailers have adequate
stocks, and manufacturing out-
put is slackening.
The immediate future, at
Government level, will involve
problems of economic stabilisa-
tion ; at industrial level problems
of consolidation and sharpening
of efficiency.
Australia generally is being
faced with the old issues of costs
and productivity with a rather
keener edge than usual.
But if all hands —including
Governments —are alive to the
hard facts of economic life, any
pronounced slackness in heavy
industries will be a clear sign
that the time has arrived for the
construction of necessary capital
works of a national nature pro-
vided that they are built at
reasonable cost-levels.
Australia is in urgent need of
capital-development. A propor-
tion of any unemployed men
and materials in the consumer-
goods industries, as well as in
slack heavy industries, should be
put to work on essential roads,
railways, bridges and the like.
There is no appreciable
unemployment in any industry
yet. But materials are clearly
becoming more abundant.
Australian Aluminium
by the Depart-
ment of Trade (Industries
Division) put present production
by the Bell Bay (Tas.) plant of
the Australian Aluminium
Commission at the rate of 11,000
tons a year, and it is expected
that full-capacity output of
12,500 tons a year will be reached
by the middle of 1957. But
capacity production will remain
subject to the availability of
hydroelectric power. At present
this is ample, but a drought in
Tasmania could have results seen
before in other industries (such
as Associated Pulp and Paper at
Burnie).
Initial production at Bell Bay
began in September, 1955, and
all the commission’s output has
met with a ready market.
Dem a n d for aluminium in
Australia during 1957 is
estimated to run to 25,000 tons,
of which Bell Bay should
provide half at (present price)
£277 10s. a ton. It is reported
that Canadian (dollar) aluminium
is about £l5 a ton below the cost
of the Australian product, but
the metal from other countries
ranges from £3OO to £320.
The shortage of aluminium
which was worrying industry
early last year appears now to
be overcome, but Bell Bay
production, under present condi-
tions, should be helpful to
industry provided adequate
shipping is available between
Tasmania and the mainland.
Most of the bauxite used at Bell
Bay is imported from Malaya.
The investigation of Cape
York Peninsula bauxite deposits
by an offshoot of Consolidated
Zinc continues to be a matter
of vital interest. The Bureau of
Mineral Resources (Canberra)
passes the rather qualified
remark that “later information
would suggest this is
perhaps one of the most
important events in the mineral
history of Australia in recent
years.” It adds, more definitely,
that “although further explora-
tion is necessary, it seems likely
that the Gulf of Carpentaria area
may prove to one of the
principal bauxite regions of the
world, with reserves running into
many hundreds of millions of
tons.” Some millions of tons of
high-grade bauxite have since
been proved.
The Bureau mentions (as The
Bulletin mentioned at the time
of Consolidated Zinc’s announce-
ment) the prospect of harnessing
hydroelectric power across
Torres Strait and producing
refined aluminium in Papua
from Cape York alumina. The
prospect raises fascinating specu-
lation, but possibilities have yet
to be worked out and commented
on at qualified level.
The Cape York Peninsula has
attracted a good deal of overseas
mining interest since the
announcement of August last,
the United States and Canada in
particular having provided the
English-speaking world with
clear evidence of the importance
of the mineral industries in the
pattern of present-day develop-
ment.
Financial figures on the Bell
Bay project will not be a reliable
guide to production costs until
a year’s operations at full
capacity can be studied. In
1955-56 the Commonwealth
Government made its last
advance to the Aluminium
Commission of £205,000, making
its contribution £9 million in a
total capital of £,10.5 million.
New Occidental
A LOSS of £10,924 for the year
to June 3, 1956, is reported
by New Occidental Gold Mines.
"Hie co.’s mines have not
operated for over two years,
administrative expenses and
maintenance of plant being
responsible for the deficit.
Incorporated in 1933 (the
mines go back to the 1880’s),
the co. mined gold and copper
in the Cobar area (N.S.W.), the
last div., of 20 p.c., being paid
in December, 1954. For the
nine years from 1946 to 1954
divs. totalled 4s. for each ss.
share.
Lacking the funds and
investment-appeal necessary to
fenable exploration and large-
scale production from the low-
grade gold-and-copper ore at
Cobar, the co. offered Broken
Hill South an option over the
Cobar mining leases and plant
some time ago. The big Barrier
co., with the end of its ore
in sight and encouraged by
some royalty concessions by the
N.S.W. Government, has now
decided to exercise its option
through its subsidiary, Mines
Exploration Pty. New Occi-
dental ynll receive £lOO,OOO for
“Contradictory reports of the rejection by counter-
reactionary elements of an antidemo cratisational
status quo approach make it clear that ”
the plant and £50,000 for the
leases.
The balance-sheet at June 3
last showed mine-property at
£122,485 and plant, machinery
and buildings (excluding the
Chesney Mine equipment), at
£450,941. Current assets totalled
£164,926 and included 70,500
f.-p. ss. shares in N.A.U.C.
Stores and spare parts were
valued at £83,750; debtors at
£15,328 ; while cash and bonds,
etc., were shown at £54,644.
Liabilities, including £lO,OOO
“option moneys held in
suspense,” amounted to only
£14,585.
Paid capital, £435,375, is in
ss. ords., of which 1,215,000 are
paid to 35., the balance being
fully paid. Both the f.-p. and
contributing shares recently sold
at Is. 6d., but net current assets,
plus the South payment, are
worth about twice that amount
per share.
As yet the co.’s future plans
haven’t been announced, and it
is difficult to value the scrip until
it can be seen how the proceeds
from the sale are to be utilised.
Newcastle Coal-cranes
[From “Abdul Assiz”]
'T'HREE years ago the attention
of Premier Cahill was
drawn, by the Newcastle
Chamber of Commerce, to the
decrepitude of the 40-year-old
cranes used for coal-handling at
the Dyke End wharf. As usual,
nothing was done. For a year
or more the Combined Colliery
Proprietors Association, also,
has been trying to get the N.S.W.
Government interested in pro-
vision of new coal - loading
facilities at Newcastle; eight
months ago it supplied plans for
building an up-to-date conveyor-
belt plant at a cost of £750,000
to the association, which would
operate it at its own expense.
On September 27 this year—
in answer to a question on June
6 by the member for Waratah —
Mr. Cahill said the question of
supplying an improved coal-
loading plant controlled by the
Department of Railways was
“receiving the very active con-
sideration of the Minister for
Transport.”
On November 20, Mr. Cahill,
apparently in ignorance of the
fact that detailed information
had been in the Government’s
possession for eight months,
said that the State Cabinet had
called for a report on the colliery
proprietors’ offer and that
Cabinet had agreed that a new
plant at Newcastle was necessary
and urgent. He observed, how-
ever, that the acceptance of the
offer would entail much detailed
discussion and negotiation and
that a definite line of demarca-
tion would have to be drawn
between the section operated by
the Railways Department—
which now controlled the plant
—and that operated by the
coalowners. But no Government
official concerned could give any
indication as to the location of
this boundary.
According to Mr. Cahill’s
figures, the 1954-55 cost of load-
ing coal was 3s. Bd. a ton, of
which 2s. represented crane
charges. The actual loading
charges might more correctly be
placed at around 3s. In any
case, the amount compares very
unfavorably with 6d. a ton at
Gladstone, Queensland, and the
high handling charges at New-
castle have, without doubt, lost
the district many orders for coal.
An interlude was provided by
the Newcastle Waterfront Group
of Unions, which objected to the
installation of a modern coal-
handling plant on the grounds
that the authorities were unable
to keep even the existing plant
working to capacity!
Electricity for Development
/'ANE of the most amazing
developments of the past
decades has been the application
of electrical power to rural
industry. A generation ago
country supply was purely local;
|arm supply was only a
curiosity. Big properties made
their own. Country towns in the
main lacked power-supply.
The past five years has seen
Australia on the eve of a new
era in power-supply extension
and in the linkage of
systems to ensure continuity. In
N. S. Wales, backward and full
of shortages only a few years
ago, hampered by high costs and
bad government, the first effect of
the Snowy Mountains scheme
has begun to make itself felt with
the feeding into the mains as
far afield as Orange of the
products of the Norwegian-built
Guthega station on the flanks of
Mt. Kosciusko. But this is only
a symptom of the progress which
is being made everywhere
despite rising costs.
Queensland, the most difficult
State to organise and co-
ordinate, has now seven key
areas under the State Electricity
Commission stretching along the
coastal belt for 300 miles inland
from north of Port Douglas to
the N. S. Wales border.
The State Electricity Commis-
sion is now in its nineteenth
(Continued on next page )


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY
AND A REGULAR INCOME WHEN YOU INVEST
if mi numeq
ON INTEREST-BEARING DEPOSITS
Interest Bearing Deposits with the Bank
of New South Wales are secured by the
substantial resources of Australia’s oldest
and largest trading bank, with assets
exceeding £500,000,000.
Any branch will accept Interest Bearing
Deposits without limit as to amount and
interest commences from date the deposit
is made. Interest on 12 and 24 months
deposits may be drawn each six months.
Rates of interest at present are:—
Head Office , Sydney
3 J % per annum
for 24 months
2f % per annum
for 12 months
2\ % per annum
for 6 months
2J%per annum
for 3 months
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
Over 980 branches and agencies in Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, and two
branches in London.
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY) /
year. It has been very lucky in
its management and progressive
outlook. In 1938 Queensland
generated 139 million units ; in
1954-55 the figure was 1358
million units. Though the
average revenue per unit sold
had increased only 30.5 p.c. —
from 1.966 d. to 2.566 d
capital * invested in electrical
generation has grown in the 15
years from under £7 million to
nearly £75 million, and the
total revenue from £li million
to more than £l3 million. Last
year the increase in sales was
nearly half the total sale of 1938.
In the south of the State coal-
burning plant is still supreme,
but a State-wide investigation of
hydrological possibilities is
being made in conjunction with
the Water Supply and Irrigation
authorities, and surveys and
other works have been carried
out as a preliminary to the
inevitable harnessing of the
Barron River to feed power to
Cairns and the sugar towns and
fields and on the Pioneer River
near Mackay. The increase in
the demand for power in North
Queensland has been so rapid
that the commission is now
preparing an interim report on
the most urgent aspects of water-
power more particularly. Already
it is thinking in terms, also, of
atom-power and. had investiga-
tions made of possibilities by the
Professor of JVfechanical
Engineering at the University of
Queensland, who was abroad
during the year.
The growth of usage has been
most impressive in country
districts. The four regional areas
under special boards —Cairns,
Townsville, Capricornia and
Wide Bay—spent £6,500,000
(including expenditure on the
£ 16-million Tully Falls scheme
which is to supply both
Townsville and Cairns) during
the year, and have outlaid
£34 million since the constitu-
tion of the boards in 1946. They
sold this year nearly double the
number of units that were sold
in the whole State in 1938.
Rockhampton and Townsville
have had their capacity to
produce doubled in 1955-56, but
are still catching up with
demand. Mackay had an
increase of 66 per cent, in
power sales during the year.
The total works on hand,
including those of the Brisbane
City Council, are estimated to
cost nearly £7O million, much
greater than half the outlay being
in country' districts.
It is quite obvious that a
revolution has been taking place
with little advertisement. Its
pace will be accelerated with
the advancement of the new tech-
niques of gas-turbine generation
by both coal- and oil-burners, by
the extension of power-line
supply to small communities, and
with the rapid growth of rural
industries in the north which is
only just starting.
The Queensland Commission
has done a very good job. It
has proved to the majority of
doubters, apparently, that it pays
for power-authorities to lead
development in underdeveloped
areas instead of following it.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
THE influx of people from
other countries to Britain is
more considerable than might be
imagined. Twenty years ago,
refugees from Germany and
Austria were arriving almost
daily. Except during the early
months of the war, when the
question of internment had to be
considered, they have caused no
embarrassment to the authorities.
Practically all of them are now
naturalised Britons and com-
pletely anglicised, with nothing
but a slight accent to ’‘betray
their origin. Few, if any, have
any desire to return. Most of
these refugees were of the
middle-class and were sponsored
by relations or other connections
here.
Conditions after the war were
very different. With an army of
“free” Czechs, Poles, Balts, etc.,
to be demobilised, the Home
Office could no longer discrimin-
ate as to whom it should, or
should not, accept. The men
couldn’t return home even it
they wanted to. Again, there
has been no trouble. The Poles,
many of whom were drafted into
the textile trade, have even
managed to set their Yorkshire
hosts an example in thrift and
prodigious hard work.
West Indians are British sub-
jects and can enter Britain with-
out formality. They have done
so, in very large numbers, but
their experience is less happy.
Some may have valued their
own skill too highly or may have
expected too much of Britain.
Many have met with color
prejudice. There is, at any rate,
a fairly high degree of dis-
illusionment and return.
Now there are new refugees
arriving—British subjects from
Egypt as well as Hungarians.
They share a commoq sorrow in
as much as everything they had
is lost to them (with the former,
even their travellers’ cheques
were frozen). Accommodation
must be found for them and, as
soon as can be, jobs.
The Hungarian problem is a
special one. Most of them are
males under the age of 35, of
working-class origin and entirely
without roots in this or any
other country outside their own.
As proud and gallant patriots,
it may be assumed that they will
wish to return as soon as oppor-
tunity is ripe. As the Russians
have banned the teaching of
French and German, both con-
versation and the learning of
English are painfully difficult,
for Magyar is a unique language.
A good start has already been
made in Yorkshire, where it is
expected that about 1000 will
work in the mines ; the 8.8. C.,
in association with a recording
company, is to supply an English
course on long-playing records.
Meanwhile, for very different
reasons, several thousand
English people have become
restive and unsettled. Queues
have formed outside the Aus-
tralian, Canadian and New
Zealand immigr at io n
departments.
Australia House reports that
the announcement of petrol-
rationing unleashed a flood of
intending migrants. In one
week, about 5000 people (nearly
three times the average number)
applied for particulars. A new
and significant feature is that
many of these applicants, largely
of the white-collar and semi-
professional classes, are them-
selves prepared to pay the full
passage. It is not that restriction
on private motoring worries
them. What they evidently fear
is a return to austerity.
Attic Concealment
After poignantly stirring New
York and stunning Germany
into awed silence, the adaptation
(by Frances Goodrich and
Albert Hackett) of “The Diary
of Anne Frank” has now
reached the Phoenix Theatre.
This is a moving play, rich in
human situations, often naturally
and spontaneously funny, yet
harrowing and stirring in its
tragedy—the long pause after the
final curtain is unforgettable for
its effect, leaving the audience
hushed, tearful and overcome.
By a grim touch of irony, the
tragedy is implicit and not con-
tained in the play, except in so
far as the short epilogue is con-
cerned. For if the Franks and
their “guests” had been spared
a few weeks longer they might
have cheated the concentration-
camps and the abominable
death-chambers. The experience
of these seven —later eight
people might then have been no
worse than an uncomfortable
memory, charged with amusing*
recollection. But they all
perished, save only Otto Frank.
The mind recoils from the
calculated inhumanity of man
and the heart weeps at the
slaughter of the innocent.
In no sense—by form, essence
or tone —does this series of
episodes add up to classical
tragedy. It is too real, grim and
matter-of-fact for that. It is
simply the re-enacting of the
diary of a Jewish girl between
the ages of 13 and 15 who with
others was forced to hide for
two years in a Dutch garret
above the former business
premises of her father, tp. refugee
from the Nazis. During this
period she grows from childish
precocity to gawky but touching
nubility.
There is manifold drama
again implicit—in the relation-
ships, conflicts and sympathies
of this 1 hapless community. The
Franks were well-bred, cultured
and restrained while the parent
Van Daans were vulgar, weaker
in spirit and accustomed to
opulence. Yet, for all that they
inevitably got on each other’s
nerves, the desire to live was
stronger than their fears, empty
stomachs and waning resilience.
All this, and more, are
brought out in Frith Banbury’s
thoughtful and creative produc-
tion. The strongest episode is
the irony of the Chanucah
“feast,” with its religious bond
and its pitiful irony of thanks-
giving conflicting with the sharp
tempers and the irrepressibility
of youth. This is vastly more
dramatic than the dread moment
when, offstage, the Nazis break
down the doors.
To interpret Anne imposes
severe demands upon an adult
actress: she must gravitate from
a cheeky schoolgirl to a
romantic, idealistic adolescent.
Perlita Neilson acquits herself
well. Otto Frank (George
Voskovec) is the soul of forti-
tude and hard-tested goodness.
His wife (Vera Fusek) is, up to
the last straw, patient endurance.
Mr. Van Daan (Max Bacon)
is, perhaps, less well-defined but
Mrs. Van Daan (Miriam Karlin)
is realistically highly-strung and
materialistic. Kynaston Reeves
and Jane Jordan Rogers are both
endearing as the brave and
kindly Gentiles.
The strength of the play lies
in its sensitive and dedicated
interpretation of truth. There is
no melodrama, no self-pity, no
striving for effect and no
histrionics.
Clueless Whodunnit
Dorothy and Campbell
Christie’s thriller “The Touch of
Fear” (Aldwych Theatre) is
absorbing if not as high in crafts-
manship as their previous plays
Perhaps the psychological
stresses a nervy son has to
bear from a ponderously heavy
father —and from others too—
have caused this painstaking
couple to drift into unaccustomed
deep water. The characters
and their fears and hopes make
little impact. Conventional
inquisitiveness only remains as
to the identity of the murderer of
the governess who, it turns out,
was not all that she seemed.
This amateur detective, usually
widely adrift, guessed correctly
at the end of the first act. The
piece is original, carefully
thought out in terms of the
theatre and novel in so far as
the suspects are questioned off-
stage and the murderer left no
clue.


EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE - What do these words convey to you?
JF you have agreed to act as Executor of a Will, have you
considered the vital and immediate attention that will be
necessary when the time arrives for you to enter upon your
duties ; the responsibilities that will descend upon you?
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited is always happy to
give full information on these matters, and to explain how the
Company may act as Executor (or Trustee) with or instead of a
person who has been appointed in those capacities.
If you would like further information on this important
subject, write for a free copy of our booklet, “Your Executor
and Trusteeor telephone for an appointment, without
obligation.
DIRECTORS
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman
Sir EDWARD R. KNOX, Vice Chairman;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; D. R. LYSAGHT;
JOHN W, DUNLOP; JOHN DARLING;
A, G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £83,000,000
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
“Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others,
Administrator, etc,
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LIMITED.
Local Directors, in addition to those Directors mentioned on the left:
WARREN D. McDonald, Vice-Chairman; S. G. McFARLANE, C.M.G.
rsk
339
®Hsa
SS3=EISTEiI
h'l
33-39 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
Offices at
TAM WORTH and
ORANGE
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd.
nPHE 116-year-old Melbourne “Herald”
A and its companion, the “Sun News-
Pictorial,” form the nucleus of the pros-
perous Herald and Weekly Times organi-
sation, but the group’s interests, through
subsidiary and associated cos., extend far
beyond the borders of Victoria.
Australia’s largest publishing-house,
H. and W.T. is one of the founders and a
principal shareholder in Australian
Newsprint Mills, Ltd. (Tasmania), which
last term provided almost a third of the
newsprint consumed in Australia. The
co. is also the largest shareholder in
Queensland Press, Ltd., which has a
virtual monopoly of Brisbane dailies, and
has share-interests in both Advertiser
Newspapers and News, Ltd., of Adelaide,
which in common with the Queensland
co. operate a number of. radio-stations.
The Herald Gravure printery, a large
book-club, two Victorian radio-stations
(3DB and 3LK), and one of Melbourne’s
three TV-stations [H.S.V., in which
Associated Newspapers (London) has a
15 p.c. interest] also helped to lift last
term’s revenue to a record level.
In the current term H. and W.T. made
a portion of its holding in Queensland
Press available to the public, reducing
to 37.3 p.c. its share of the scrip. (The
other major shareholder, C.W.L. Pty.,
has a 29.3 p.c. interest.)
The parent co. has a paid capital of
£2,486,241, 6y p.c. and 6 p.c. prefs.
accounting for £400,000. The last issue
to shareholders was in 1954, when
2,000,000 ss. shares, at a ss. premium,
were offered on a one-for-three basis.
The circulation of both “Herald” and
“Sun” increased last term, advertising
revenue expanded, and good results were
obtained from the publishing and printing
subsidiaries, while Australian Newsprint
Mills reported another very successful
year. After more than doubling its in-
come in the four years to 1955, the parent
added another £466,605 during the year
ended September 30, to bring the total
to £11,373,569. Despite increases in the
cost of labor and newsprint, the larger
gross income helped the group to show a
net profit of £633,461, £13,353 better than
the previous term’s effort. A further profit
of £139,619 came from the sale of shares
in Queensland cos. to Queensland Press,
Ltd.:
Parent Co.
/ Dividends
, Pref. , Re-
Sept., Profit. 6) p.c. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.*
£•£>£, £/ £,
1951. .231,662 8125 16,500 14.1 = 204,000 1,816,875
From tax reserve, £1472 .. .. 1,317,847
1952. .241,827 8125 10,500 14.1 = 204,000 1,331,049
Tax overprovided, £3766 .. .. 1,834,815
1953. .393,706 8125 16,500 16.66=240,000 1,463,890
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Tax overprovided, £7854 .. .. 1,471,750
Sha'fe premiums, £499,129 .. .. 1,970,879
Added reserves, £53,974 .. .. 2,024,853
Less added intangibles, £566,453 .. 1,458,41)0
1954. .504,710 8125 16,500 20 =321,333 1,617,152
Tax overprovided, £1375 .. . . 1,618,527
Share premiums, £B7l .. .. 1,619,398
Add reduction intangibles, £338,750.. 1,958,148
To plant replacement res., £225,000 .. 2,183.148
1955. .620,108 8125 16,500 20 =407,471 2,871 160
Adjustment minority interest, £21,436 2,392!096
Tax overprovided, £4909 .. ..2,397 505
Sale of shares to Queensland Press
Ltd., profit £139,619 .. .. 2,537 124
Establishment exp., TV co., £38,807 2,498 317
Increase in intangibles, £267,091 .. 2,231 2*6
,^/ r ° P lan V replacement res -> £252.500 2,483’,726
1956.. 633,461 8125 16,500 20 =417,284 2,675,328
* After deducting intangibles, £783,601 at June' 30,
1906,
The £633,461 was claimed after providing
£252,500 (up £27,500) for the increased
cost of plant-replacement, £743,191 for
taxation and £412,682 (up £48,341) for
depreciation. The tax-provision is
sufficient to cover tax on both the capital-
profit and the provision for plant-replace-
ment, as well as on the earnings chimed.
The 20 p.c. ord. div. was well covered,
earnings, after deducting the pref. divs.,
representing a return of 29.1 p.c. on ord.
capital, as against 29.2 p.c. on the average
capital of the previous year and 28.9,
25.6, 15.1, land 14.3 p.c. back to 1951.
The increase in intangibles resulted from
the Queensland Press transactions.
Balance-sheet movements are in line
with the higher turnover and steady
growth of the co., the rather large
increase in outside interests arising from
the fact that, at balance-date, H. and W.T.
still held 56 p.c. of the Queensland Press
share-capital:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref- .. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Old. .. 1,939,129 -2,086,029 2,086,241
Reserves .. 2,483,605 2,623,863 2,981,429
Plant replace-
„ ment .. _ 225,000 477,600
Outside interests 510,796 765,926 1,410,775
Notes, mortgage,
etc 960,626 1,460,625 1,460,625
Overdraft .. 417,559 395,501 181,616
Creditors, etc. 2,160,086 2,468,700 2,543,062
Final div. .. 237,646 290,450 290,478
„ £9,059,396 £10,716,094 £11.881,626
Freehold property,
etc. .. 1,359.875 1,733,894 2,164.386
Plant, etc. .. 2,034,074 2,426,589 2,628,426
Shares, etc. .. 988,249 860,395 832,170
Stock .. .. 1,686,947 2,834,856 3,132,346
Debtors .. 2,094,278 2,273,560 2,283,402
Cash, etc. .. 79,520 109,097 7,295
Intangibles .. 816,463 477,703 783,601
£9,059,396 £10,716,094 £11,831,626
Overdraft and creditors combined fell
slightly over the year, and, with stocks
heavier by £297,490, working-capital
improved by £345,125 to £2,407,987,
The publishing-rights of “Woman’s
Day” were recently sold to John Fairfax,
Ltd., of Sydney, leaving Herald Gravure
with some productive capacity available.
The current term will see the TV sub-
sidiary in full operation, and, although
the period promises to be one of rising
costs, the co. demonstrated last term its
ability to cope successfully with this
situation. The f.-p. ss. ords. have a net
tangible cover, including the plant-replace-
ment reserve, of 10s. 5d., and at 21s.
return 4.8 p.c. from a 20 p.c. div. The
well-backed £1 prefs. at 19s. 6d. (6£ p.c.)
and 19s. 3d. (6 p.c.) return 6.7 p.c. and
6.2 p.c. respectively.
Tooheys, Ltd. (Sydney)
TN CREASED excise-duty, imposed last
A March, brought to a halt the steady
increase in Australian beer-production
and consumption evident over the past
10 years. Total consumption for the year
ended June 30 increased by 10,013,000
gallons, consumption per head over the
same period rising from 24.3 to 24.8
gallons, but in the six months to August
last production was down by 7.4 p.c. on
the figures for the corresponding six
months in 1955, The beer-drinker’s
reluctance to pay more for his beverage
has yet to be tested by summer thirsts
and the Christmas period.
The well-established Sydney brewer
and hotel-proprietor, Tooheys, Ltd.,
reported a “substantially” higher output
and turnover for the year ended June,
and, despite the overall slackening in
demand, expects to do even better in the
current term, when the new bottling-plant
at Auburn (Sydney) comes into operation.
To help finance the co.’s expansion pro-
gramme, and, in particular, the develop-
ment of the 16-acre Auburn site, 2,338,875
£1 6 p.c. notes were offered to the public
at the end of 1955. On maturity in 1962
the notes will be converted into £1 ords.
at par.
Since 1953 Toohey’s paid capital has
jumped by £1,819,125 to £3,898,125 (all
in £1 ords.), a one-for-four par issue in
1955 bringing in £779,625, Prior to this
issue the 16s. shares, written down from
20s. in 1905, were restored to their
original face-value by the capitalisation
of £623,700 from reserves.
Little benefit was received from last
term’s improved turnover, higher wages,
taxes and transport charges absorbing
most of the added revenue. After provid-
ing an undisclosed amount for taxation
and allowing for depreciation at a greater
rate (£177,323, up £13,349) than that
recognised by the taxation authorities, net
profit was up by £7402 to £322,634:
Net To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1951.. 147,994 8 p.c. = 142,065 f 0901109903
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. ) 1,102,903
Share premiums, £62,910 .. ..1,165,813
■ 1952.. 80,366 4 p.c. = 77,674 2,692 1,168,505
Share premiums,-- £54,140 .. ..1,222,645
1953.. 185,950 8 p.c. = 165,743 20,207 1,242,852
Staff fund, £lO,OOO 1,232,852
1954.. 220,002 8 p.c.= 176,399 43,603 1,276,455
Staff fund, £5OOO 1,271,455
Assets revalued, £743,311 .. ..2,014,766
Reserves capitalised, £623,700 ... 1,391,066
1955.. 315,232 8 p.c. = 238,698 76,534 1,467,600
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. ..1,462,600
1956. . 322,634 8 p.c. = 310,006 12,62 S 1,476,228
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. ..1,470,228
The unchanged 8 p.c. div. (average rate
for the last 20 years) took all but £12,628
of the earnings claimed by the co., £5OOO
of this balance going to the staff-fund.
The £322,634 equalled a return of 8.3 p.c.
on average ord. capital, compared with
10.5, 9.9, 8.9 and 4.1 p.c. in the four
preceding years.
Tooheys Standard Securities, Ltd., a
finance subsidiary, showed its usual profit,
£41,250, which happens to be the exact
amount required for the pref, divS.
Tooheys, Ltd., owns the ord. capital,
paid to £12,500.
The rapid growth of the brewery co.
in recent years can be seen here:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £2,456,966 £3,852,014 £3,898,125
Reserves .. .. 1,271,455 1,462,600 1,470,228
Loan from sub-
sidiary .. .. 801,320 805,181 809,258
Mortgage .. .. 95,794 102,826 96,727
Unsecured notes .. 1,448,137
Creditors .. .. 1,100,026 959,090 704,037
Tax provision* .. 271,288 325,760 371,165
Staff funds .. s<ooo 5,000 5,000
Final div 93,239 139,410 155,464
£6,095,087 £7,651,881 £8,958,141
Brewery—
Property .. 468,849 515,231 789,768
Plant .. .. 593,413 859,457 1,164,602
Hotels .. . . 3,041,684 4,047,695 4,210,126
Shareholdings .. 40,777 40,777 40,777
Stock .. .. 547,513 534,782 667,456
Debtors . . .. 1,260,700 1,525,966 1,947,101
Subsidiary .. 135,906 121,728 132,066
Cash, etc 6,245 6,245 6,245
£6,095,087 £7,651,881 £8,958,141
* Includes “provisions” for repairs, suspense items,
and contingencies.
The book-value (rather vaguely “cost or
valuation”) of brewery property, plant
and the large chain of hotels increased
by a substantial £742,113, additions to
plant accounting for almost half of the
increase. Stocks (up £132,674) and
debtors (up £421,135) were higher by 24.8
p.c. and 27.5 p.c. respectively. The note-
issue provided most of the funds needed
for 'these movements? and the £255,053
reduction in the amount owing to
creditors.
The current term will see the reintro-
duction of land-tax in N.S.W., and as
a large property-owner (the co. controls
something like 300 hotels) this latest levy
will, with rising wages and increased
power charges, etc., add to the existing
cost problem.
The f.-p. £1 ords. have a net tangible
backing of 275. 6d., and at 245. return
6.6 p.c. from an 8 p.c. distribution. The
convertible 6 p.c. notes, paid to 155., last
sold at 15s. 4d.
Australian National Industries, Ltd.
known as John McGrath
A Industries, this large group of
engineers, merchants and motor-vehicle
distributors recently changed its name to
Australian National Industries, Ltd. The
long association of the McGrath com-
panies with th# motor-trade may have
obscured the fact that the group’s other
interests, particularly its manufacturing
offshoots, represent over half of its sub-
sidiary investment.
The parent through two intermediate
holding cos. controls 13 subsidiaries,
including Australian Forge and Engineer-
ing Pty., the largest producer of drop-
forgings in Australia, and the John
McGrath Motor cos., distributors for the
Rootes group in Queensland and N.S.W.
Other major subsidiaries'are:
National Forge Pty., Melbourne
(ferrous and non-ferrous forgings).
Melbourne Iron and Steel Mills
Pty. (manufacturer of all types of steel).
Industrial Sales and Service (N.S.W.)
Pty. (distributor of tractors, earthmoving
equipment, cranes,, etc.; recently dropped
its International Harvester franchise).
Perkins (Aust.) Pty. (machinery and
steel merchants, distributors of diesel and
petrol engines, and, in N.S.W., Diamond T.
trucks).
The wholly-owned Industries Insurance,
Ltd., underwrites insurance risks for the
organisation.
The scrip in John McGrath, Ltd.
(registered 1911), was acquired in 1951
by the present holding co., which was
formed for that purpose, the terms of the
transaction giving shareholders, in effect,
a one-for-one bonus. Since 1946' gift-
scrip has added £1 million to paid
capital, par issues in 1952 and 1954 (one-
for-four) bringing-in another £1 million
to give the co. a paid capital of £2,500,000
all in ss. ords.
Despite increased labor costs and the
decline in motor-vehicle sales, before-tax
earnings for the year to July 31 last
improved slightly, but after a larger
provision for taxation (up £29,225 to
£221,865) and a £179,219 charge to
depreciation (down £43,158) net earnings
were £26,052 lower at £284,274:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. t Dividends x serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £
’52.. 349,014 8 p.c. = 133,333 215,681 1,771,541
Reserves added on purchase of outside
interests, £10,298 1,781,839
Unexplained additions, £8337 .. .. 1,790,176
’53.. 162,642 8 p.c. = 160,000 2,642 1,792,818
Reduction in stock reserve, £485 .. 1,792,333
Tax overprovided, £40,789 .. .. 1,833, 1'22
Share premiums, £625 .. .. 1,833,747
’54.. 242,032 8 p.c.=171,823 70,209 1,903,956
Unexplained addition, £775 .. .. 1,904,731
’55.. 310,326 5.3 p.c. = 208,333 101,993 2,006,724
’56.. 284,274 8.3 „ ~208,333 75,941 2,082,665
t Subject to intangibles, £1,363,638 at 31/7/’55.
A high bonus-scrip content and
£1,363,638 of intangibles have contri-
buted to the fairly low earning-rate, the
£284,274 profit equalling 11,3 p.c. on
capital compared with 12.4, 11.3 and 8.1
p.c. in the three preceding years. Div.
was unaltered at 8.3 p.c.
Manufacturing and merchandising
activity in N.S.W. is concentrated at
Lidcombe (Sydney), where a further seven
acres of land adjoining existing premises
was purchased during the year, and, with
the establishment of subsidiary branches
at Lidcombe, Tamworth (N.S.W.) and
Canberra, the balance-sheet shows a
£170,688 increase in the book-value of
freeholds and leaseholds, but the current
term will see the disposal of properties
rendered surplus by these moves:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Capital .. .. £2,498,472 £2,500,000 £2,500,"000
Reserves .. .. 1,903,956 2,006,724 2,082,665
Outside interests.. 5,147 4,371 4,968
Notes .. .. 500,000 500,000
Overdraft .. 1,156,858 1,651,501 1,618,595
Creditors, etc.*.. 1,071,260 1,169,584 1,329,465
Final div. .. 111,823 125,000 125,000
■'£6,747,516 £7,957,180 £8,160,693
Freeholds .. 1,713,003 1,803,503 1,974,191
Plant .. .. 910,393 935,427 990,075
Stocks, etc. .. 1,932,973 2,841,065 2,832,706
Debtors .. .. 612,647 997,596 949,531
Shares in subsidiary 189,875
Shares in other cos. 3,000 34,000
Cash .. .. 20,255 15,951 16,552
Inter-co. suspense.. . 68,396
Intangibles . . 1,296,974 1,363,638 1,363,638
£6,747,516 £7,957,180 £8,160,693
* Includes provision for taxation.
“Shares in other cos.” came into the
accounts again, the co. joining equally
with Tutt Bryant, Ltd., in Graderblades
(Aust.) Pty., formed to manufacture
grader-blades from steel supplied by
Melb. Iron and Steel. A shareholding
was also obtained in the recently formed
P. C. Miller Forgings Pty. (Melb.), while
a small indenting business was acquired
during the term.
Bonus-issues have increased the value


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
1
111
Established lHUti m deign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
fire accident marine
ATLAS
assurance co., Ltd.
(England)
KJ3.W. Branch:
g Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent A
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Australian and Overseas Patents
Trade Marks.—Anv*.
Legal Notice
IN THE COUNTY COURT OF BALLARAT
1957 No. 7
FORM OF ADVERTISEMENT
TO ERROL STEELE formerly of
Learmonth Road, Ballarat. —T AK E
NOTICE that a Plaint has been entered
and a Special Summons issued against
vou in the above County Court b*j
GEORGE HENRY VICTOR GROSVENOIi
of 428 Ligar Street Ballarat for the sum
of £960 for money due under a Bill of
Sale And an Order has been made
that the publication of a notice of the
entry of such Plaint in the Ballarat
“Courier” newspaper and “The Bulletin”
newspaper should be deemed to be service
of the Summons upon you Unless within
10 days from the publication of this
notice you give to the Deputy Registrar of
the Court ,a Notice signed by. yourself
or your Practitioner that you intend to
defend this action together with a duty
stamp of Two Shillings you will not after-
wards be allowed to make any defence to
the clai* which the Plaintiff makes on
you but the Plaintiff may without giving
any proof in support of such claim pro-
ceed to Judgment and execution If you
send such Notice of your intention to
defend to the Deputy Registrar within the
time above specified you must appear at
a County Court to be held on the
Twelfth day of February 1967 at the
hour of Ten in the forenoon to answer the
above claim, the sitting of which Court
will commence on that day. DATED the
12th day of December, 1956. —T. E.
BYRNE & CO., 56 Lydiard Street Sth.,
Ballarat, Plaintiff’s Practitioner.
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
“JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes ins. x 31 ins.,
68 x 3§ and 9 Ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jaekson & O'Sullivan [ft
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
804 • 806 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
of the 8.3 p.c. div. to original
shareholders, but the prospective
buyer, uncertain as to the
immediate prospects of the
engineering and motor trades,
and unimpressed by the earning-
rate, offers 4s. sd. for the ss.
ords. to obtain a 9.3 p.c. return.
The shares have a net tangible
backing of 6s. sd.
Whale Industries, Ltd.
ALTHOUGH the latest
accounts of Whale Industries
(for 11 months to Sept. 30 last)
disclose a 23.9 p.c. drop in earn-
ings, operations during the last
whaling season, the co.’s fifth,
were by no means unprofitable,
and the 20 p.c. div.-rate was
maintained without difficulty.
Two of the co.’s three whale-
catchers underwent' surveys
during the period, and portion
of the cost was charged against
current earnings, provision made
in previous terms being
inadequate to cover the
expenditure involved.
Formed in June, 1951, Whale
Industries bought the capital of
its three subsidiaries, Whale
Products Pty., Farm Margarine
Pty. and Hi-Protein Pty. with the
issue of scrip to a face-value of
£35,000. A public offering of
2,000,000 ss. shares raised
£500,000 to give the co. a paid-
capital of £535,000.
Based on the Tangalooma
station (Moreton Island, Q.), the
catchers took last term’s 600-
whale quota in 64 days, two days
less than in the previous season.
There was little variation in the
quality or quantity of the oil-
yield, but the average price
obtained was slightly higher,
rising by approximately £2 10s.
to £llO a ton c.i.f. U.K. or
Continental port. Prices for
■ whale-meal and solubles, mainly
supplied to the local market, fell
sharply, and, despite increased
production, earnings from this
section were reduced.
The 11 months Covered by the
accounts include the full whaling-
season, and the lack of one
month’s off-season expenses does
not materially affect comparison
with the results of the previous
term. However, with an
unspecified amount charged
against earnings for vessel-
survey costs and a £25,000 (up
£10,000) provision for deferred
maintenance (previous provisions
amounting to £25,000 having
been exhausted), comparison
may be misleading. The net
profit of £143,266 was down by
£45,168, and was £18,235 less
than the average earnings over
the last three years. Provision
for depreciation was unaltered at
£70,000, and *£Bo,ooo (down
£1653) set aside for taxation:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Oct. Profit. Dividends*--, Deficit.*
31, £ £
Premium paid for subsidiaries’
shares .. • • • • 31,500
Preliminary and establishment
exes., etc., £45,062 • • 76,562
1952.. 69,431 6 p.c. = 32,100 39,231
Res.*
1953. .105,722 10 „ ~58,600 12,991
1954. .152,806 14 „ ~74,900 90,896
1955. .188,434 20 „ ~107,000 172,330
1956 f. 143,266 20 „ ~107,000 208,596
* After deducting intangibles, £31,500
at 30/9/’56. fll months only.
The earning-rate dropped to 26.7
p.c. on capital, the previous
term’s 35.2 p.c. following 28.6,
19.8 and 13 p.c., back to 1952.
Alterations, to shipping
schedules, as a result of Egypt’s
nationalisation of the Suez Canal,
left the co. holding £126,811-
worth of goods sold but awaiting
shipment, and, with the earlier
balancing-date, the total amount
owjng by debtors rose by
£228,157, cash holdings, etc.,
being reduced by £117,832:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1955. 1956.
Paid capital . . £535,000 £635,000
Surplus . . .. 203,830 240,096
Provision for de-
ferred mainten-
ance, etc. .. 25,000 25,000
Creditors . . .. 9,242 12,442
Tax provision .. 130,000
Dividends •• 107,000 107,000
£1,010,072 £1,049,517
Plant, buildings,!
etc. . . [ 549,042 47.4,604
Ships J AA
Shares, etc., subsid. ».500
Stock . . . . 27,010 0 22,068
Debtors .. .. 136,444 364,601
Cash .. .. 266,076 148,244
Intangibles .. 81,500 31,500
£1,010,072 £1,049,517
Only minor additions were made
to the efficient plant, which, with
other fixed assets, is shown at
cost, less a fairly generous pro-
vision for depreciation. The
directors “have decided on a
policy of diversification of
interests as opportunity offers,”
and an unsuccessful bid for
Newcastle and Hunter River
Steamship scrip, in March, 1956,
preceded the decision to com-
mence beach-mining, for zircon
and rutile, on Moreton Island.
For this purpose the co. joined
equally with Zircon Rutile to
form Tangalooma Minerals Pty.,
which, in the current term, has
commenced stockpiling of con-
centrates. It is hoped that the
pfoject will be in full operation
by April this year.
‘A base-quota of 500 whales
is expected under a new five-
year whaling-licence to be issued
shortly, but the operative 600-
whale quota* is unlikely to be
reduced. Stimulated by the post-
war shortage of fats and edible
oils the demand, from European
buyers, for whale-oil Shows no
signs of slackening, and over the
last five years the average price
per ton has risen from £B7 10s.
to £llO. The price of whale-
meal and solubles is determined
by the ruling-price and avail-
ability of other protein
materials, and considerable
fluctuations occur.
The f.-p. ss. units have a net
tangible backing of a little over
6s. lid., and at 16s. 9d. return
5.9 p.c. from a 20 p.c. div.
Wilcox Mofflin, Ltd.
THE prospects of this old-
established wool, hide and
skin merchant appear to be a
little brighter now than they were
a year ago. Wool is fetching
more, and the market for sheep-
skins, which accounts for the
biggest proportion of the co.’s
business, has firmed in sympathy.
For most of the 1955-56 term,
until Japanese buying in May
helped to reverse the drift, wool
(and sheepskin) prices lost
strength, and seasonal factors
weighed pretty heavily against
the co., too. Because of the need
to keep pastures in check
following the abnormal wet
weather, killings were lighter,
which meant that supplies of raw
hides fell short of demand, push-
ing up prices to about 20 p.c.
above levels ruling abroad.
As a result, shoe- and bag-
manufacturers have tended to
hold off local leathers, but the
co. says it has “revised” opera-
tions to meet the changed condi-
tions. On the credit side, the
weather also brought with it a
bigger-than-usual demand for
drenches and other veterinary
products turned out at the
Botany (Sydney) factory.
In the fellmongering and wool-
scouring section, full produc-
tion was maintained at Fre-
mantle during the year and
further additions were made to
plant at the new Botany
premises. Profitable results are
expected from this factory. At
Lismore the farm-produce and
seed branch increased its turn-
over, and a site has been bought
for a new warehouse and grass-
and pasture-seed cleaning-plant.
As in the case of the sheepskins
handled by the co., most of the
seed is sold abroad. The
machinery- and implement-
manufacturing offshoot, Govan
Industries Pty., Ltd., is also
reported to have had a good
year. Factory premises have
been doubled to cope with the
expanding business.
Including the profits of the
subsidiaries to the extent only
of dividends paid to the parent
co. during the year net earnings
edged up £3759 to £68,074:
To Re- Re-
Jne.Profit. <— serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
'51..71,091 10 p.c. = 55,000 16,091 219,449
’52..40,123 6 „ ~27,500 12,623 232,072
'53..59,255 8 „ ~44,000 15,255 247,327
’64..60,536 8 „ „ 44,000 16,536 263,803
'55..64,315 8 „ ~44,000 20,315 284,178
'56..68,074 8 „ „ 44,000 24,074 308,252
Written after setting aside
an extra £6004 (£42,472) for
depreciation, the £68,074 profit
was 12.4 p.c. on the paid capital
of £550,000, compared with
11.7, 11, 10.7, 7.3 and 12.9 p.c..
back to 1951. As a matter of*
caution the div. was held at 8 p.c.
The main items in the balance-
sheet overdraft (£1,008,478) and
stocks (£1,287,488) are explained
this way. Sales of sheepskins and
wool are made throughout the
season, but until they are actually
shipped and paid for against
existing letters of credit all goods
sold are treated as stock. And
except for a few oddments of
little value, buyers are found
for all the co.’s merchandise
before it leaves Australia. Against
the overdraft figure mentioned,
actual credits on hand at June
30 awaiting negotiation amounted
to £449,014:
1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £550,000 £550,000
Reserves .. .. 284,178 308,252
Overdraft .. .. 929,136 1,008,478
Creditors, etc. .. 488,512 473;865
Suspense a/e .. 4,503 4,195
Pinal div. .. 22,000 22,000
£2,278,329 £2,366,790
Freehold, etc. .. 382,215 412,112
Plant .. .. 274,585 327,183
Shares subsidiary 12,735 , 12,976
Shares other cos... 19,103 19,749
Stock, etc. .. 1,299,472 1,287,488
Debtors .. .. 288,312 304,690
Cash .. .. 1,907 2,592
£2,278,329 £2,366,790
Extra funds employed during the
year went mainly into freeholds
(up £29,897) and plant (up
£52,598). Standing in the books
on a cost-/m-depreciation basis
at £411,057 the co.’s properties
are valued at £822,249. On
book-values net tangible asset
backing is 31s. -j3d. a share.
Taking the view that rising
costs rule out the chance of any
sudden improvement in profits
in the future, the sharemarket
prices the ss. shares at ss. 3d.
for a yield of 7.6 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis.
Mt. Lyell (Tas.)
PRODUCTION of copper
from Mt. Lyell’s low-grade
ore has become more profitable
in recent years, and rising
copper prices have pushed the
earnings from this source well
above the return from the co.’s
considerable outside investments.
Exhausting its high- and
medium - grade ore reserves
about 27 years ago, Mt. Lyell
continued to pay moderate divs.
(averaging 5.3 p.c. for the 10
years to 1953) mainly from its
investment' income. In the last
lour years, however, helped by
soaring copper prices, earn'ings
from the at the open-
cut mines at Mt. Lyell, Tasmania,
have more than doubled, an 8-J
p.c. div. in 1954 being followed
by a 16i p.c. distribution in the
following year. Last term’s 16.1
p.c. (p.a.) was comfortably
covered by mining profits alone.
The co. has altered its balance-
date from September 30 to June
30, with the result that the latest
accounts cover a period of only
nine months.
A proportionately larger
amount of material was removed
from the mine last term
for a smaller quantity of ore,
the ratio of overburden to ore
increasing to 1 to 0.68, as against
1 to 0.92 in the previous term.
The entire output came from
the West Lyell open-cut:
Total Over- Assay
Materials, burden, Ore, Copper,
Tons. Tons. Tons. . p.c.
’54..2,923,462 1,347,714 1,575,748 0.714
’55..3,337,977 1,735,778 1,602,199 0.657
’56*2,833,174 1,678,433 1,154,794 0.660
* Nine months only.
The concentration-plant treated
1,153,560 tons of ore to produce
26,255 tons of concentrates, a
fall of 1709 tons when adjusted
to compare with the previous
term’s output.
West Australian super-
phosphate manufacturers bought
1054 tons of copper concentrates,
23,196 tons going to the smelter,
the resultant 5400 tons of blister
copper having a fine-metal
content as follows:
Copper, Silver, Gold,
Tons. Oz. Oz.
1954 .. 8938 32,979 4712
1955 .. 8283 31,282 48/4
1956* .. 5368 24,236 2993
* Nine months only.
In addition, 37,771 tons of
pyritic concentrates were pro-
duced, assaying 48.9 p.c. sulphur.
The West Lyell ore-reserves
were recalculated during the
term, and total reserves at June
30 last amounted to 45,027,000
tons (down 962,000 tons),
estimated to average 0.73 p.c.
copper, 0.0650 z. silver and
o.ooBoz. gold, enough to keep
the mill busy for almost 29 years
at last term’s rate of throughput.
Investment income for the
nine months exceeded that of
the previous year by £11,960,
and a further £168,374 was
received in special divs. from
Commonwealth Fertilisers and
Chemicals, Ltd., following
adjustments in that co.’s
accounts. These divs. (paid frotn
reserves and almost entirely
satisfied by the issue of ord.
shares) were not included with
the earnings claimed:
Sept. 30, June 30,
Income — 1955. 1956.*
Copper, etc. .. £3,691,861 £2,798,094
Dividends .. 216,461 228,421
Total £3,908,322 £3,026,515
Mining .. .. 1,253,012 950,881
Refining, smelting 1,280,226 937,377
Development, de- '
preciation .. 195,883 235,570
Administration,
etc 420,970 272,519
Total .. £3,100,091£2,396,347
Net profit .. 808,231 630,168
, ( p.c. .. 16i 16.1
Dividends j _ £377,813 £280,937
* Nine months only.
The £630,168 profit was claimed
after providing £205,000 for
taxes and £152,053 for depreci-
ation, and was £23,990 better
than the average for nine months
of the previous term. Earnings
equalled a return of 36.1 p.c.
(p.a.) from the £2,325,000 paid
capital compared with 34.7,
17.1, 8.6, 10, 8.4 and 5.7 p.c. back
to 1950. The div., equal to 16.1
p.c. p.a., required Jess than half
of the earnings, the large share
retained by the co. helping to
finance a development project
which includes a new haulage
tunnel and new crusher installa-
tions.
Shares in other cos. are
shown in the accounts at a
conservative £2,933,654, or
£608,654 more than the paid
capital, and, with current assets,
exceed liabilities (including a
£1,150,000 loan from the
National Mutual Life Associ-
ation) by £3,283,222.
Australian copper prices, after
rising to a record £537 10s. a
ton in April, 1956, had dropped
to £353 a ton (selling) by last
November, overseas quotations
since then showing little improve-
ment.
At 30s. the f.-p. £1 shares
would return 10.6 p.c. from a
continued 16 p.c. div.
Shaw River Alluvials
SHAW RIVER ALLUVIALS,
after abandoning its
disastrous tin-mining venture in
W.A., has entered into partner-
ship with Oxide Rutile, N.L.
(formerly Uranium Oxide N-L-)>
to prospect rutile-bearing areas
in the Kempsey district of
N.S.W.
The co. originally intended to
take-up a large parcel of shares
in Coifs Harbour Rutile, but as
a result of delays in the flotation
of that co. it was decided to join
with Oxide Rutile, and options
have been obtained over approxi-
mately 10,000 acres.
If all options are exercised
total consideration will amount
to £18,750. This amount, how-
ever, will be recovered if produc-
tion follows and be replaced by
a payment of £8 per ton of
rutile and £2 per ton of zircon,
to be paid when the concentrates
are sold. A plant capable of
handling 50 tons of rutile weekly
is envisaged by the partnership.
At the end of last year
approximately 1200 acres had
been tested and four deposits,
totalling an estimated 9200 tons,
located.
Shaw River will make a call
of 3d. per share next March.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
This is being written in 1956, but it
won’t be read till next year. Strange
thought!
In the meantime Sydney will have
welcomed 1957 with revels of all types.
Manly has always been a for
celebration, and* this year there will be
on the programme: A water-ski race to
Manly from Sydney ; a fireworks-display ;
community-singing and dancing; per-
formance by a jazz-band ; night-
swimming ; and strolling minstrels.
King’s Cross is to have concerts
organised by the City Council and the
Australian Broadcasting Commission.
Bondi is to have a carnival, Coogee a
“Mardi Gras” (though Shrove Tuesday
is a long way off); Cronulla will have
midnight-to-dawn dancing on the lawns
near the beach as part of the South
Pacific Festival organised by the adjacent
surf-clubs.
At any rate it looks as if the New
Year will make an entrance to much
applause. Let us hope that the act comes
up to expectations.
The wondrous world of pantomime
opened for Sydney children at the Tivoli
this year with an especially lively version
of “Sinbad the Sailor.” Principal Boy is
that buoyant personality Jenny Howard,
who says she has been in panto for 31
years and whose svelte figure suggests
that she must have been carried on for
her first performance. In “Sinbad” she
wears a sailor-suit that was made for her
15 years ago and hasn’t had to be
altered since. How enviable!
One of the cutest things she has ever
seen in pantomime, said Miss Howard,
happened at Innisfail (Q.) a few years
ago. A call had gone ahead for 25
children to dance (wherever you go in
Australia, she said, you will find talent
available), and when they arrived for
rehearsal 23 were white children and two
were little aboriginal girls aged five
and six. They danced beautifully, looked
enchanting in their white frilly costumes
and practically sto]e the show.
There are nearly 100 dancers in the
children’s ballet of “Sinbad,” 50 in the
morning matinee and 50 in the afternoon,
as regulations do not allow them to dance
at two performances in the day. One of
the youngest is Robin Evans, aged seven,
who has been learning dancing since she
was four; and among the eldest are
Beverley Glanville, now appearing in her
fifth pantomime, and talented Jeanette
Adey, who at 13 is a veteran of six
years’ experience.
Miss Mercia George, who is principal
of the Maurice Diamond School of
Dancing, says that the children start
practising for the pantomime in October,
and perfect 10 dances between that time
and Christmas. During the season their
mothers come in and act as dressers, six
per day according to a roster. Miss
George does .the make-up, but, she says,
they soon become skilful themselves, and
even the very little ones can be depended
on to do a good job once they have
learned the correct way.
Child Welfare regulations in Australia
set seven as the minimum age at which
a child may dance on the stage pro-
fessionally. In England the minimum age
is 14, so that .the children’s ballets have
become a characteristically Australian
feature. Miss Howard says that in the
past very tiny tots used to come on, if
only briefly, and she remembers one
little girl of two in Melbourne who came
to work in a stroller! The maximum age
for the ballets is 14, and as the girls
cannot become adult professional
dancers until they are 16 many of them
lose interest during the two-year lapse.
Still, even those who marry retain
happy recollections of their pantomime
dancing-days, and take their own little
girls along to learn. Miss George, who
has been teaching here for 16 years, said
that already she has the tiny daughters of
some of her pupils in class. One of them,
Peppi Ellis, daughter of Mrs. Margaret
Ellis, recently appeared on television
(though this could not possibly have the
lure and excitement of the colorful, vivid
life of the pantomime-stage).
While Miss Howard and Miss George
were talking about pantomime-ballets in
Miss Howard’s brilliantly-lit dressing-
room, hung with glittering costumes and
furnished with all the colorful parapher-
nalia of a theatre-star, little Peta Toppano,
aged five, came in to put her doll in safe
keeping on the sofa. Peta’s mother is
Peggy Mortimer, principal girl in the
panto.; her father is the conductor of the
orchestra. She herself learns dancing, and
in two years’ time will be eligible to go
on with the other youngsters in that excit-
ing, delightful enterprise, the pantomime-
ballet.
The little girls who sit behind one at the
pantomime are always full of information
for their smaller brothers and~sisters, their
most important contribution being that
the horse is not a horse at all but two
men. In “Sinbad” the other day a small
dog appeared on the stage, and when
little brother asked if that had two men
inside it also, sister hesitated only a
moment before assuring him that it was
so! In addition, she told him that the
Dame was not a lady but a man, that the
Principal Boy was not a boy but a girl,
that the Tax-man was not the taxi-man,
that the Principal Girl was really a girl,
that the Old Man of the Sea was “really-
truly,” that the jugglers must have been
practising, and that she could do
pirouettes like Edna Busse as the Fairy
Queen. In some quarters there is a
prejudice against big sisters, perhaps not
without justification.
This lovely photograph of Jessie
Matthews was taken in Melbourne only
three weeks ago, and shows the charm
and vitality of this talented actress. Her
leading part in.the new comedy at the
Royal, “Janus," gives her splendid scope
for lively characterisation, showing her as
a “two-faced” woman. “Janus” opened
at the Royal on Saturday night, a very
suitable choice for the month of January,
which is named after Janus, the god that
looks back over the old year and forward
to the new.
The new year sets one thinking of the
ancient problem of whether new things
are better than old ones. Is South Wales
any better than New South Wales, or
Zealand than New Zealand? Is the new
moon an improvement on the old one,
or new wine superior to its seniors? Is
the new generation much of an advance
on the old generation? Was the New
Look really new? All very heady prob-
lems calculated to keep you awake while
waiting for the revels to start on New
Year’s Eve.
V V V
First-nights at this time of the year are
not usually very “dressy,” people having
taken on the casual summer way of life.
The result at the opening night of “The
Pirates of Penzance” was that there was
no glitter in the audience to distract from
the delightful new costumes to be seen on
the stage. The women playgoers all
thought the crinoline costumes
particularly pretty, the men were in agree-
ment that the chorus provided the
prettiest line-up of G. and S. singers for
some time.
# ☆ ☆
An exhibition telling the 300-year-old
story of the Grenadier Guards will be
officially opened by Major-General
Denzil Macarthur-Onslow in David
Jones’ Art Gallery on Wednesday,
January 2, at 3 p.m. The exhibition,
which has already been shown at St.
James Palace in London, and in New
Zealand, celebrates three centuries of the
Guards’ brilliant career. Highlights are
the dummy figures wearing 20 different
uniforms of the Grenadier Guards, and a
collection of weapons dating back to the
16th century.
☆ ☆ ☆
Science did its best to take the romance
out of things in 1956. First it showed
that an electronic brain can compose a
string-quartet. It’s jus.t a matter of
mathematics and the rules of composi-
tion. Then it was announced that the
first man-made “moon” would be ready
by January and be launched into space
next July, The “moon” will probably stay
up for about a month and will be
equipped with a battery which will radio
messages to the earth (not the same
messages that the old-style heavenly type
of moon sends). A third scientific
discovery was that women retain their
crowning glory because their brains are
small and they have a thick layer of fat
under the skull. Well!
☆ *r ☆
The Governor-General, Sir William
Slim, and Lady Slim will attend the open-
ing performance of the Mozart comic-
opera “The Marriage of Figaro” on
January 12. The profits of this per-
formance are being given by the Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust to the Hungarian
Relief Fund. Producers of the four
Mozart operas are Dennis Arundell and
Stefan Haag. Musical-director is Joseph
Post, with Eric Clapham associate-
director.
MELBOURNE
As a wind-up to the year’s hard work
the directors of the Little Theatre —Brett
Randall, his son Peter and Irene Mitchell
—entertained at a foyer-party in the
theatre at South Yarra. In welcoming the
80 friends and members of the theatre
they were assisted by secretary Pauline
Aulton (who has just finished playing a
leading role in “Thunder Rock”),
subscription-secretary Carolyn Bush and
Peggy Marks.
Among the guests were Mrs. Hal Percy
(whose late husband was co-founder of
the Little Theatre with Brett Randall),
Mr. and Mrs. A. T. Smithers, Mr. and
Mrs, John Casson with their elder
daughter Penny, and Dot Jones.
Educated at Mandeville Hall, where she
matriculated, Julianna, eldest daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Adams, of Camber-
well, is going on to the Emily McPherson
School, where she will learn cooking and
dressmaking. She will postpone choice
of a career until she has mastered these
domestic arts. Photo by John Warlow.
When. Julianna made her debut at the
party given for her by her parents, Mr.
and Mrs. Arthur Adams, at Royal
Empire House she wore the gown given
to her by her grandparents, Mr. and Mrs.
W. H. Murphy, of Toorak, as a birthday-
gift, for the day before the party Julianna
had her 18th birthday. The gown was of
white Irish crochet-lace, the crinoline
skirt made over pearl-satin and pink tulle,
the scooped-neckline encrusted with
pearls and crystals. Mrs. Adams (wearing
a garnet-red satin gown embroidered in
gold) with her husband and Julianna
received the guests. Adrienne Williams
wore a short, blue silk-organza frock,
Moira Doyle palest-green organza. Sue
Carney’s frock was of shrimp-pink silk-
taffeta. Pale-blue Chantilly-lace made
Pat Flynn’s attractive frock. Flowers
and rhinestones embellished the white
polished-cotton frock worn by Denise
Hart. Other guests included Julianna’s
uncle and aunt, Dr. and Mrs. Harry Sinn,
another aunt, Mrs. John Mullany, Dame
Mary Daly, Mrs. S. Marron, and
Julianna’s grandparents.
☆☆ - *
Chairman of the Wheat Board Sir John
Teasdale and Lady Teasdale gave a very
cheery party for 150 guests at their Kew
home. Bowls of pastel-colored hydrangeas,
gladioli and delphiniums decorated the
large reception-rooms. The hostess wore
a tailored frock of white cotton pique
faintly etched in a black design.
Jane Teasdale, who helped her mother
look after the guests, wore a full-skirted
dress of aqua-green silk-taffeta. Guests
included Air-Vice-Marshal and Mrs. J. E.
Hewitt, Mr. and Mrs. W. K. Burnside,
Mr. and Mrs. Basil Buffer Murphy, Swiss
Consul Paul-Emile Cattin and Madame
Cattin, Mr. and Mrs. R. W. Gayland,
Dr. and Mrs. Jim Peters, Mr. and Mrs.
A. R. Slarck and Mr. and Mrs. T. M.
Wisewould.
v v
Sir Bernard and Lady Heinze, who
with two of their sons, Julian and
Nicholas, have moved to Sydney for Sir
Bernard to take over his duties as Director
of the N.S.W. Conservatorium of Music,
will spend a few weeks at Palm Beach
before going into their house at
Bellevue Hill. The Heinzes’ Toorak home
will shortly be occupied by U.S. Assistant
Air-Attache Colonel Collas Harris, his
wife and children.
# v tf.
To celebrate the finish of schooldays
and extend to their friends seasonal greet-
ings eight young girls were hostesses at a
dance at No. 9 Darling-street. Balloons
in the colors of their old school —the C.
of E. Girls’ Grammar —were used for
decorations, with bowls of mixed flowers
and a tall, gaily-lighted Christmas-tree.
All eight girls wore short frocks:
Sandra Shipton chose white nylon-organza
spotted in gold ; Carol Wood, white satin
with a sash of crushed-strawberry satin ;
Lois Bott, pink-embroidered organza,
with a deep-cream satin sash; Ursula
McKee, midnight-blue silk organza, which
had a deep hemline of pleated organza ;
Jenny Simmons, white organza mounted
on candy-pink taffeta ; Ann Sewell, sea-
green Duchesse-satin, with large peg-top
patch-pockets; Sue Eva, creamy-white
satin embroidered with small sprays of
pastel-tinted flowers, and a blue satin
sash; Sue Laurie, pink organza, the
bodice having a sweetheart neckline.
CANBERRA
The High Commissioner for Ceylon,
Mr. P. R. Gunasekara, gave the bride
away when Miss Charmaine Perera was
married to Mr. Melroy Kwesius, a
member of the Legation staff, at St.
Paul’s Church, Canberra. The bride,
recently arrived from Ceylon, wore a sari
of white Chantilly-lace ; her long konde-
marle (veil) was held in place by a circlet
of fragrant orange-blossom, and her
bouquet was of white carnations: Brides-
maid Mary Ann Bartholomeusz wore a
coral-pink sari, the underjacket beaded
in pastel colors ; she carried a posy of pink
carnations. The best man was Mr. P.
Kandanearatchy, who is also a member
of the High Commissioner’s staff.
Forty guests attended the reception
held at the Chancery. They included
Madame Gunasekara, wife of the High
Commissioner, wearing a gold-lace stole
over her black silk sari; the Senior
Assistant-Secretary of Finance in the
Ceylonese Government, Mr. R. Coomara-
swamy ; the second-secretary of the High
Commission, Mr. H. Wijegoonawardena ;
and Mr. Raja Gunasekara. The bride’s
going-away sari was in watermelon-pink
chiffon, worn with an underjacket of
gold lace. Mr. and Mrs. Kwesius will
make their home in Canberra.
V V V
A happy and friendly Christmas-party
was given by Mr. and Mrs. Basil Robert*
in the Balcony Room at Canberra’s Hotel
Civic. Hostess Mrs. Roberts, one of the
community’s most energetic social
workers, wore a grey silk frock with a
lovely hat swathed in soft lilac tulle with
one pink rose. Noted among the guests,
the Charge d’Affaires for Brazil, Senhor
Q. S. De Seta, and his attractive wife (her
large mushroom-hat in white straw was
worn with a delphinium-blue Suit);
Madame Manz, wife of the Austrian
Charge d’Affaires; Mr. and Mrs. E. K.
Geach, she wearing a haze-green brocade
suit and small black hat; Mr. and Mrs.
R, Hull; and Mr. and Mrs. S. Lucas. v


ARTS
Circular Charts for all types
of Recording Instruments
•or any class of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
ACCURACY GUARANTEED
}\CUWW-& O'SILLI VAN % lta
QuiEN STREET, BRISBANE
Legal Notice
IN the supreme court "of
QUEENSLAND.
TO ROBERT LENTHAL STEPHEN for-
merly of Caravan Park Scott Street Haw-
thorne Brisbane in the State of Queens-
land and C/o Kamel Stephen Ltd. of
Pacific Highway Raymond Terrace in the
State of New South Wales arid Ballarat
in the State of Victoria whose present
whereabouts are unknown. —T A K E
NOTICE that EDGAR JAGO has com-
menced an action against you and
TERRENCE GEORGE GEARING for
damages for negligence No. 727 of 1956
If you wish to defend this action you may
enter an appearance in the Registry of
the Supreme Court of Queensland at Bris-
bane within Forty-four days from the
publication of this Notice You may
obtain without charge a copy of the
Writ of Summons from MESSIEURS
CHAMBERS McNAB & CO., Solicitors, of
S 3 Queen Street, Brisbane. DATED this
Nineteenth day of December, 1956. —L.
CHRISTOPHERSON, Second Deputy
Registrar.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
( Incorporated, by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
. economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Pantomime
Once upon a time there was
a little boy named Jenny
Howard. His mother was
Gordon Chater.
He also had an uncle named
Tinbad the Tailor, otherwise
Morry Barling, who wore a
perpetual expression of humor-
ous disgust, as if he were
munching rotten eggs ; and he
never looked more disgusted
than when he counted nine hats
and found they made eight.
Furthermore, Jenny Howard’s
mother, Gordon Chater, owned
a horse which consisted of two
young men, one fore and one
aft, whose names will never be
known: which is a pity, because
being the hind-legs of a
property-horse is a very arduous
way to spend Christmas.
Jenny became a fine young
man in tight purple pants ; and
so, when he fell in love with the
Princess Mineeta, naturally the
princess reciprocated this affec-
tion but said she couldn’t
possibly marry him unless he
were rich.
So they all went to Persia,
with the property-horse, to find
the magic talisman.
Had it not been for the fairy,
whose name in the programme
was Edna Busse but who had
mysteriously changed into a
delicious blonde, much too much
in every way to be wasted on
fairyland, they would all
undoubtedly have been drowned
by the Old Man of the Sea, Ray
Hartley, a green, hairy creature
too often seen at this time of
year on account of the excessive
festivities
But they did get to Persia ;
and there, at the royal court of
the Caliph of El Haza, they saw
a man riding a bicycle and
pulling it to pieces as he rode.
They also saw acrobats, jugglers,
Jandy the musical clown,
children dancing like sunbeams,
and a most amazing sliding,
writhing ballet of two exotic
young creatures dressed as
glittering serpents or crocodiles.
So of course Jenny found the
magic talisman, slew the Old
Man of the Sea, married the
princess and they all lived
happily ever after.
This is “Sinbad the Sailor” at
Sydney Tiv. Thousands of
children thought it all the most
glorious fun; and, though it
seems different in a few trifling
details from the Sinbad one used
to read about, this commen-
tator’s only serious criticism of it
is that the front legs of the
property-horse should obviously
have married the fairy.
♦> ❖ *
“The Pirates of Penzance”
As fierce a band of pirates as
ever shed tears (at the thought
of an elderly major-general
suffering the pangs of orphan-
dom) displayed their stern dis-
approval of the apostasy of their
apprentice, stealthily stalked the
cops through the ruins ot the
moonlit Cornwall chapel and
otherwise took full advantage of
the many juicy Gilbertian
situations when the Firm
presented the second of its
G. and S. offerings at Sydney
Empire.
They were led by the best
Pirate King this commentator
has yet seen Eric Thornton
brought an engaging zest to the
role, his powerful baritone had a
ringing resonance, his diction
was unexceptionable and he
unleashed reverberating laughs
that put a permanent wave in the
welkin. Eric Stuchberry, as his
lieutenant, gave him strong
vocal backing.
Grahame Clifford’s Major-
General Stanley stuck close to
the traditional delineation. The
role offers fewer opportunities
for pure comedy than most of
Gilbert’s creations, but what
there are Clifford grabbed ebulli-
ently with both hands. His
“I Am the Very Pattern” was
stepped-up to a terrific bat, with
nary a word bent or buckled.
Richard Watson, as the fat, self-
satisfied police-sarge, sang his
“I still don't like it."
“Tarantara” and “When a
Felon’s Not Engaged in His
Employment” with suitable
ponderousness.
The Irish tenor Terence
O’Donoghue was the apprentice
Frederick whose birthday, falling
on the February 29, causes all
the piratical pother. He was
adequate vocally, but his acting
was rather stilted.
Heading the quartet of flutter-
ing, giggling daughters of the
General was Helen Roberts,
dispensing her special brand of
laughing-eyed charm and colora-*
tura singing which showed a big
improvement over her last
appearance. Cutting her volume
back and using a high-register
pianissimo of excellent control,
she sang her “Poor Wandering
One” beautifully.
Muriel Brunskill’s Ruth was
short on character and her con-
tralto lacked depth and clarity.
Choruses were again full-
bodied, well - disciplined and
strong in attack, with diminu-
endoes given delicate treatment.
Dressing was up to standard and
the two settings pleasingly
artistic.
❖ ♦> ❖
Marionettes
The blend of satire and fantasy
which Peter Scriven has woven
into his marionette-show “The
Tintookies” at the Elizabethan
Theatre, Sydney, makes this one
of the most appealing seasonal
shows now running in the city.
Though a comparative new-
comer to this age-old art (he
has been a professional marionet-
tist in Australia for only five
years), Peter Scriven’s masterly
manipulation and originality of
approach single him out as one
of the world’s most promising
young, marionettists.
In “The Tintookies” he makes
no real attempt to create
“character” for its own sake, as
some classical companies do, but
simply to delight the audience
with the fairytale world of the
imagination.
And what a joyful world this
is, with its bearded “astronomer”
Preposterodamus, its flustered
nose-blowing Mayor, its three
“wise” professors ready to drop
into a philosophical dissertation
at the drop of a hat. And there
are, of course, the Koala, the
Wombat, the Bunyip ana the
duel under the ocean —which is
just the sort of place, as all
spearfishermen report, where
you are most likely to find a
bunyip or a koala.
The fresh and delicate music
of Kurt Herweg throughout is a
joy to hear.
“Jemjfa”
From London: Leos Janacek
was, in the best sense, a provin-
cial. Born in Moravia, he chose
to spend most of his long life
there and was actually taken
fatally ill in the cottage of his
birth. His studies took him no
further than Prague and Leipzig,
and he seems to have been
thankful to return to Brno, the
capital of his province. He does
not appear to have attracted the
notice of his better-known con-
temporaries, Dvorak and
Smetana, nor to have thought
fit to emulate their tunefulness
and clear rhythms. This provin-
cial stay-at-home, in fact, was
the more “advanced,” the more
esoteric.
His opera, “Jenufa,” which
took 12 years to travel the 120
miles from Brno to Prague, has
taken 52 years to reach London,
although it has been performed
in several metropolitan cities in
recent years. Certainly the
gauche plot, which reads &adly
and which is so abstruse as to
need an explanatory “family-
tree” in the programme, is
enough to deter the most
innovatory of administrators.
Perhaps the chief conductor at
Covent Garden, Raphael
Kubelik, has made known its
other merits. If so, we “are very
much indebted to him for a
remarkable production that must
surely stay in the repertoire.
One word sums it up—
“dramatic.” A mainly British
cast superbly contrives to be
Slavonic and to surmount the
cornier situations. This is really
a music-drama, with complete
fusion of its elements.
The music is not thematic and
is astonishingly varied in mood
considering its short phrases and
the limitations of the plot
(Moravian peasants girl with
child by Steva, a drunken cad —
nice but jealous Laca wants to
marry her Kostelnicka, her
adoptive mother, shameful and
distraught, murders the baby—
Jenufa and Laca preparing to be
married horrid discovery
Kostelnicka confesses, is for-
given, goes to trial so do the
betrothed, hand-in-hand).
Oddly, both women are
sopranos and both men tenors.
Amy Suard’s Jenufa is aptly
earthy but Steva (Edgar Evans)
is not a natural charmer and
Laca (John Lanigan) is a trifle
too strong in character. The per-
formance of the evening is Sylvia
Fisher’s Kostelnicka.
The gaudy, sun - drenched
balletic settings are out-of-
cjjaracter, but if, by attracting
the eye, they have encouraged the
ear they are justified.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Under Milk Wood”
From Henry Sherek, 40 Pall
Mall, London, S.W.I:
October 31, 1956.
Herbert Holman, Esq.
Dear Sir,
I have just read the notice
in the Sydney Bulletin of
October 24 anent “Under Milk
Wood,” and think it would be
only fair for you to let your
readers know that I bought this
play for stage production long
before what you describe as
“poor Thomas’s irregularities”
were known to anybody. They
were made public principally by
the book Dylan Thomas in
America, and this had not yet
been published when I acquired
the property for stage produc-
tion.
To say that it acquired a
commercial potential because of
his known irregularities is so
absurd that I am amazed that a
first-rate paper like The
Bulletin should publish this
asinine remark. If this remark
was made by you I do not
apologise.
Yours very truly,
H. Sherek.
From Herbert Holman, 22
Castelnau Gardens, London,
S.W.I 3:
November 3, 1956.
Henry Sherek, Esq*.
Dear Mr. Sherek,
Now that the dust has settled
after the detonation of the bomb
at my desk I will try, dis-
passionately, to answer your
letter.
When I wrote the notice of
“Under Milk Wood” I did not
do so under the impression that
the rights of the play had been
bought after publication of
Dylan Thomas in America. The
actual date of purchase was,
to my mind, of no consequence.
And I was not even conscious
as to who had bought them and
put on the play. My conclu-
sions would have been just the
same if the management had
been a “non-profit-making” one
or the Old Vic. The point at
issue was simply that notoriety
can prove to be a bigger “draw”
than the real worth of artistic
content. I have no reason to
change that view, and, in making
the assertion, I don’t disparage
the worth of “Under Milk
Wood.”
Unfortunately, lack of space
inevitably involves using a kind
of shorthand which does less
than justice to expression. As
I re-read the offending sentence-
I realise that there may be an
implication of “cashing-in” on
news-value. This was never
intended, and if it has provoked
your annoyance I am all
apology —the more so when 1
pause to consider the vital,
integral and quality productions
which the theatre owes to Henry
Sherek, Ltd.
While I consider that your
closing comments are unneces-
sarily offensive, at least they are
plain language. The critic, no
less, is entitled to write what he
honestly feels.
I wish continued success to
“Under Milk Wood” —here, in
America and elsewhere. My
chief regret is that the author
could not have enjoyed it during
his lifetime.
Yours very truly,
Herbert Holman.
From Henry Sherek:
November 5, 1956.
Herbert .Holman, Esq.
Dear Mr. Holman,
Thank you for your letter of
the 3rd instant, which is
extremely courteous, having
regard to all the circumstances.
The reason I am writing to
you again is to assure you that
Dylan Thomas’s so-called
notoriety has nothing whatever
to do with the success of “Under
Milk Wood.” I am sure that not
one per cent, of the people who
buy tickets have ever heard of
the book Dylan Thomas in
America, nor of his irregular
habits.
1 was so interested in this
that I spent the whole of Satur-
day afternoon in the box-office
and questioned everybody who
came to buy tickets, and on that
afternoon irot one, I repeat, not
one had ever heard of the book
or the irregularities. They
nearly all said they were coming
to see it because they had heard
it was jolly good, or that they
had seen part of it on television.
You can make an author as
notorious as you like —if they
don’t like the play they just
don’t go.
Having had the honor of
serving with Australian troops
in two wars, I was extremely
blunt to you because I found
that this was much appreciated
by my many Australian friends.
Maybe you are not an Aus-
tralian?
Yours sincerely,
H. Sherek.


Who's Crazy?
By KEVIN McNAMARA
HARRISON didn’t take the
lift; he walked up the
stairs. He wondered
what Dr. Brink would
say about it. Probably
nothing; Dr. Brink didn’t say
much, just sat there, silent in
that chair.
Anyhow, why didn’t he take
the lift? Because of the lift-
driver? Maybe. He didn’t like
the look of that man. Sliding up
and down his perpendicular
groove, smilingly pushing and
pulling levers —he seemed to
enjoy it. Why did he enjoy it?
Freud could find a reason.
Despite his weariness, which
was a chronic thing now, Harri-
son couldn’t help chuckling.
Freud certainly could find a
reason.
But no ; on reflection, the real
reason why Harrison didn’t take
the lift was that convulsive groan
the outdated capsule gave as it
strained up the slot. It made
Harrison’s teeth grate. Made
him angry. Made him want to
. . . What? What?
Now he was on the fourth-
floor landing. He looked at his
wristwatch. A little early. He
wondered whether he should
have a cigarette out here in the
corridor or go inside to * wait.
Might look funny waiting out
here in the corridor. But if he
went inside he would have to
face that tribal-mask again.
That damn’ tribal-mask.
A cleaner came along the
corridor, whistling. Harrison
winced his bloodshot eyes. The
whistling was off-key, ragged,
intolerable. The cleaner banged
his bucket down on the marble
floor. Why did people have to
bang their damn’ buckets down
on their damn’ floors?
Harrison walked quickly
along the corridor to Number
41. He raised his fist, cleared
his throat, twisted his neck more
comfortably into his collar, and
knocked —once; softly. Like a
man who lived inside an egg-
shell, he did everything softly.
The door swung open. Being
well oiled, it was a completely
silent door. Even the woman
holding the knob was pleasantly
quiet. Already, Harrison felt
himself relax just a little.
The woman smiled. She was
Mrs. Brink, a ghost who opened
doors and then evaporated. She
stepped aside, and he entered
rather like a spy arriving at a
secret rendezvous. Mrs. Brink
closed the door, nodded at the
waiting-room and, as always,
quietly slid away into another
apartment.
Harrison went in,' sat on the
comfortable lounge.. Directly'
opposite him, hanging on the
wall, was the mask. It was dark-
brown in color and grinned a
gaping, toothless grin. Harrison
closed his tired eyes; when he
opened them again he made sure
he was looking elsewhere.
Books lined the wall on either
side of the lounge. Harrison
selected one, idly flipped
through the pages, closed it, put
it back. And looked at the
mask.
That was the hell of it. The
mask was the focal-point of this
room, and you always found
your eyes wandering toward it,
particularly if you were trying
to avoid it. It was one of those
New Guinea masks. Or maybe
from Africa. Or the Amazon.
Anyhow, it was pretty weird and
wild, and Harrison began to
wonder what a doctor like Brink
thought he was doing, having
such a mask around the place.
It didn’t seem to fit in.
The mask reminded him of
his wife.
It popped into his mind, just
like that.
But his wife didn’t look
“Mr. Harrison.”
A CALM voice. It had a slight
European accent. Pleasant
on the ears and mind. Harrison
turned his head, and Brink
looked back with those softly-
radiating eyes.
Brink had a personality that
immediately commanded respect,
friendship and even admiration.
By simply looking at him you
knew he was among the gifted.
His face was round and brown,
smooth and knowing.
“You may come in now, Mr.
Harrison.”
Brink held open the door to
The, Room. Harrison rose,
walked across the silent carpet,
entered, and the doctor very
quietly closed the door. It was
all very leisurely, and somehow
civilised.
Brink asked him how he was
feeling today, and Harrison said
he was feeling tired, as usual,
and then Brink took«from a
drawer a pure-white square of
linen.
Harrison was beginning to feel
good inside. Though he hadn’t
realised it then, the waiting-room
had been noisy—sounds from
motor-cars and bustling people
had drifted through the open
windows. But this room was
air-conditioned, the windows
were closed, and the only sounds
were those of fingers brushing
wood, of breathing, of a closing
drawer. Harrison sighed out a
mist of tension.
Now the head-rest was in
place, carefully smoothed, care-
fully white, and the doctor took
up his notebook and silver ball-
point pen.
Brink inclined his head.
“Reading?” he asked gently.
“Interesting?”
. Harrison took the magazine
from his side-pocket and held it
up for inspection. On the coyer
was a colored photograph of a
ballerina’s shapely legs. Her
slippers Were a delicate pink.
“I like the way her feet arch,”
said Harrison, wondering idly
whether or not he should be
saying this; after all, it wasn’t
exactly normal. “I also kind of
like the fact that I can’t see her
face. It might not be as pretty as
the arch of her feet and”
He let it go.
Brink smiled, as though to
say he quite understood. “Shall
we begin?”
Harrison replaced the maga-
zine in his pocket, swung up his
legs, and reclined on the couch.
Now he could see out the window
at his feet; a pigeon was walk-
ing the sill. And he could see the
cool, grey ceiling—same color
as the pigeon’s feathered wings.
But he could not see Dr. Brink.
Dr. Brink did this purposely.
The doctor’s leather armchair,
which was situated just beyond
Harrison’s head, creaked as Brink
settled himself more comfortably.
pOR a moment Harrison said
A nothing, allowing the secure
silence to wash over his nerves.
He sighed. Soon he would have
to talk, and he might just pos-
sibly start getting all wrought-up,
and that seemed a pity. He
wondered if the doctor had
bought this room from some
supernatural source ; he doubted
if he could ever purchase a
room as soothing as this.
The proud pigeon strutted with
a bobbing head, as the doctor
said, “You may begin now.”
“Well,” said Harrison, inter-
locking his fingers across his
chest, “I had an idea for a car-
toon today. As I told you before,
I draw cartoons; it’s kind of a
big hobby with me. And this
idea”
Rapidly, he considered. Per-
haps the telling of this might
offend the doctor. But hadn’t
he said to tell him everything,
just as it came into his head?
“Hide’s this patient in the
cartoon,” he said. “He’s lying
on a psychiatrist’s couch, his
timid eyes as big as dinner-plates.
He’s very frightened and he’s
holding hard to the sides of the,
couch. The doctor is leaning
over him, fists clenched,, muscles
in the thrqat standing out, mouth
wildly open, screaming: ‘Who's
crazy?’”
Brink was silent.
“But the funny part . . . Well,
I drew it roughly on a sheet of
paper, and thought I drew it well,
but when I really looked at it,
I saw I had drawn a woman
psychiatrist. And I can’t figure
why.”
He frowned at the ceiling and
moistened his lips.
“I suppose I should’ve brought
the drawing in to show you, but
I didn’t like the look of it for
some reason —and I burnt it.
Didn’t just throw it away, but
burnt it.”
The doctor’s chair creaked
softly.
“Maybe I burnt it because I
was irritable,” Harrison went on,
subtly switching the topic.
“Reason I was irritable was
because across the street from
the office they are now tearing up
the road.” Bitterness came into
his voice. “It makes a hell of a
noise, and you know how I feel
about noise.
“I shut the window, but it
doesn’t help. The glass rattles
and the light-globe jitters from
the ceiling. The others in the
office . . . they laugh at me, the
way I don’t like noise. And
that makes me sweat. Feel stiff,
tight, all over. The others see it,
and then they laugh at that. I
hate ’em all. Hate ’em. And—
like a big kid —I try to get even,
in a roundabout way, by laugh-
ing at the people who make the
noise.
“Take those fellows, though,
the ones digging up the road.
Massive men. Muscles like rock-
melons. And they stutter around
on the ends of those overgrown
toys, those pneumatic drills. I
hate them, too. And their
blasted toys.”
He swallowed and suddenly
added, “No ; I didn’t mean that.
Don’t hate anybody. But” . . .
“Yes?”
'“Toys. There is something
about toys.” He stared thought-
fully at nothing for a moment.
A DOOR was opening in what
he supposed was his sub-
conscious ; he slammed it shut
again. He felt guilty about
slamming it shut, but he could
not stop himself.
“Drills,” he said. “Drills. Told
Irene, my wife, about the drills.
She didn’t hear. She never
hears. It’s hard to believe, but,
honestly, 1 don’t think my wife
really exists. I mean it.
“Every evening I come here
straight from work. I know
you said I’ll get worse before I
get better. But on the way home,
I feel looser, more relaxed. And
then I go inside and see Irene
sitting there. Sitting by the
radio. The volume-knob is
turned around as far as it’ll go.
The noise batters against the
walls and the closed windows —
windows that’ve got to be closed,
because the neighbors have com-
plained. It’s frantic. It’s” . . .
He hesitated, then decided not to
sa Y it was crazy. Crazy was a
Sensitive word.
“It just gets on my nerves,”
he said. “It’d get on anybody’s
nerves. In a frenzy. Intolerable.
Feel”
He twisted on the couch and
hissed between clenched teeth,
as j i j rene wb y she has it so
i OU( j And she looks at me Her
bead comes around and iooks
at me Coldly. I think she
bates me. And she doesn’t turn
the radio down.”
He laughed with closed eyes,
“j t ’ s bind of funny, if you look
at j t one way g ut ’ at t be core,
it j sn ’ t f unn y. There must be
some reason why she loves that
rac bo. Must be. It’s out of all
proportion,
“Look. It starts first thing in
the morning. She always wakes
U p before me, and straight away
she turns on the radio. Right
Up. Way up. And that wakes
me. I could kill her. I don’t
get much sleep. And then I
wake up to that,
“I don’t think she cares what’s
on the radio. Anything seems
to do. Serials, music, corn-
mercials, anything. All sky-
high.”
Harrison brought up one
hand, shading his eyes with the
back of it. The pigeon was still
walking the sill. Like a He
slammed that mental door again,
“At night, in bed, she still has
the radio on. Did I tell you—
we’ve got three? One in the
lounge. One in the kitchen,
And a portable that spends most
of its time in the bedroom.


INSURANCE—for your protection —
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(.Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £18,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 813 1 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. •. •• 2b
Yearly Subscription... 22/6
Faith in th e
Future
Another year comes up; another mark between
what one of our Australian poets has called “the
twin eternities —Has Been, Will Be.”
It is a time when most of us like to take
account of the past, to project our hopes into the
future.
Of the recent past we can say this, in all
truth: Never before have a few years produced so
much to make for the comfort and happiness of
the human race, or have there been such
developments in science, research and engineering,
such a quickening of discovery upon discovery.
All thir must gear men’s activities, stimulate
their plans. And, applying it to Australia, I believe
that it means we’ve to start learning how to live
ahead of the times.
We shouldn’t be content to accept events as
they come. We have to anticipate them, prepare
intelligently to meet them, and refuse to be stopped
or staggered by the incidental problems that arise.
Weighing against the problems is this enormous
fact: In an age that is opening up still greater
marvels in human performance, we are the few
to whom it has been given to “conquer a continent.”
Were we to fail in this appointment with
History, there would be no excuse of time, or gift,
or breed. But failure is a term unthinkable, so
long as we give Australia the love and loyalty it
commands.
That is contained in one word —Faith. It
implies a belief in our mission in life, in those
around us, and in the work we share in common
under God.
It is more than a matter of sentiment. Our
approach to it must be firm and practical; our
pledge to maintain it, strong. For every year—
every day —brings its new challenge to living in
this modern world.
That, I feel, with all it entails in Individual
Effort, should be the measure of our self-searching
at the dawn of another year.
181
“Well, in bed, I wait. I wait
for her to go to sleep. And the
radio blares and blares and
blares till I think I can’t stand
it any more. When I figure she’s
asleep, I reach across and turn
it off. But she usually isn’t
asleep, and she glares at me—r
I can feel it in the dark —and
then she turns it on again. But
eventually she does sleep;
eventually I do get that damn’
radio off. Then it’s wonderful.”
Dr. Brink said nothing. He
wrote in his notebook. Harrison
had slitted eyes and a slotted
mouth.
“You know, I thought she
might be trying to drive me
crazy. Thought she might be
trying to murder me. But then
I see her sitting hypnotised in
front of one of those three sets,
and I know it’s not that. The
look on her face. She’s like a
marble. statue, sitting there
letting the syrup pour into her
ears.
“It’s getting so I don’t want to
go home. I’m becoming afraid
to go home. I told her you said
I needed peace and quiet, but
she claims I’m selfish ; she says
if I’m not crazy I can surely bear
to listen to the radio. She looks
at me in a strange way some-
times. Three times —I kept a
mental record —she has inferred
I am insane.”
He bit his lip. “She laughs
at me. “Or—l don’t know—
maybe I imagine that, too.”
His hand had closed to a
fist, and he pushed it hard
against his cheek. He trembled.
“She used to be intelligent.
I’m sure she was intelligent. Now
she’s like a mechanical toy.”
His eyes widened. The pigeon
flew off. Harrison sucked in his
breath. The door was open and
the demon was out. But was it
a- demon? It didn’t seem like
one.
TUST a childhood experience.
A thing he hadn’t thought of
since a little while after it had
happened. Something new that
he felt Dr. Brink would be eager
to hear. Or would he? Harrison
decided to go ahead and tell it.
“Just thought of something. I
don’t think it amounts to much,
but ... Anyhow, I was about
ten and the time. I had this
mechanical soldier. Got it for
Christmas. Wind it up and it
was supposed to walk along the
floor. I remember how nice and
bright it looked and how
anxious I was to get it going.
“So I got the silver key and
started winding-up the spring
motor, wound it real tight. When
I had it all wound-up, I set it on
the floor and let it go. The
motor started to whir, then the
sound increased in pitch, like a
scream, and finally there was a
loud slapping rackety sound. But
the soldier didn’t move.
“I wound-up that toy at least
a dozen times, but it wouldn’t
go. I remember I got my father
to take a look at it, and he
took it all apart and put it
together again, and it still
wouldn’t go.
“The part that really got me
was that there wasn’t any reason
for it not going. By all the rules
of logic, it just had to go. I
think that was the first time in
my life I felt raging frustration.
“And then, one day, after I’d
been winding and taking it apart
and trying to fix a defect I
couldn’t even find and listening
to that noise it made, I felt
myself go cold all over. I was
like ice. Glacial. I could feel
all the muscles in my face con-
tracting back toward my neck.
Slowly, tightly, grating my teeth,
I went and got the hammer and
pounded the hell out of that
toy.
“By the time I’d finished, it
was just flattened tin and twisted
springs. Then I felt even worse
—in a different way. Suddenly
I realised I would never find the
defect now, would never make
that toy go.”
There was the soft rustle of a
page in Dr. Brink’s notebook.
Harrison lay perfectly still,
blinking at the ceiling.
“It’s probably nothing,” he
said at last.
The doctor didn’t answer.
Harrison felt the perspiration
bubble from his forehead. The
toy. The toy reminded him of
the pigeori* and the pigeon
reminded him of his wife and his
wife reminded him of the mask
and the mask reminded him of
the hamm
He choked it off. To blank
his thoughts, he began to talk.
“I know I’m abnormally sensi-
tive to noise, but I don’t think
I’m like my wife says . . .
crazy” . . .
“Just remain quiet for a few
minutes,” said the doctor.
They waited in thick silence,
and then Brink asked, “Feeling
better?”
He nodded and took the cue.
SLOWLY, he swung his feet to
the floor, sat on the edge of
the couch. The doctor replaced
the cap on his pen, closed his
notebook, looked thoughtfully at
Harrison. Harrison hoped he
wasn’t thinking about the
smashed toy.
“I would like your wife to
come to see me,” said Brink.
“Just to talk about things.
Would you tell her that?”
“I’ll tell her, but I don’t
think” . . .
“You tell her it’s for her own
good, as well as for yours. Tell
her I may want to see her several
times, before . . . Well, just
tell her.”
A nervous half-smile ghosted
on Harrison’s lips. A thought
swayed hypnotically through his
mind. Hoarsely he said, “I’ll tell
her tonight.”
Now Brink came to feet,
went to the door, held it open.
“Till tomorrow, then.” He smiled
gently, and added, “Oh, yes ; the
lift has been repaired. I’d take it
if I were you.”
He did. And even the lift-
driver seemed to be repaired,
seemed not to bother him. But
perhaps this was because Har-
rison had other, more intriguing
thoughts to divert his attention
this particular evening.
Outside, it was dark. Neons
blinked and blared. On the
footpath, before a radio-store,
there was a group of people
watching television-sets. They
were mesmerised people. Har-
rison glanced at the screens, and
shuddered, for they looked re-
markably like inhuman eyeballs
watching him. He turned away.
The drive across the bridge
and along the fairly quiet streets
and avenues was calming. Har-
rison kept Wetting hi§ lips and
wondering how he would say
what he had to say to Irene.
The smile still hovering on his
mouth, he parked the car and
went into the house.
And bounced against a wall of
noise. The hit-parade was on.
The song featured, at the moment
seemed to consist of one frenzied
line of words, one frantic chord
of music, repeated over and over
again.
“Irene?” said Harrison, almost
shouting, because that was the
only way Jo break through the
“music.”
CHE turned her head ; her face
was expressionless; twin
frosted eyes beamed a
iefrigerated glance. A finger,
limp, raised and pointed to the
kitchen.
Harrison sighed, went into the
kitchen, and ate. When he had
finished, he came back into the
lounge-room and tried to read a
book, but that was impossible.
So he just waited for the night
to clatter on, watching his wife,
whose skull, he thought, must be
like the inside of a treacle-tin
by now.
It came to bedtime. Irene
switched-off the radio, left the
room. For a moment, silence.
Then the bedroom portable came
on, blared.
Ifarrison also went to the bed-
room, undressed, climbed into
his pyjamas, and then sat on the
edge of the bed. His wife said
nothing; just lay there.
Now was the time.
“Dr. Brink wants to see you,
Irene!” he shouted through the
screaming wail of a melancholy
singer.- v
She grunted. Animal, thought
Harrison.
“He says it’s important!”
“No,” she said, so low, so
impassively that he could hardly
hear her. “I’m not going. I
don’t attend mind-doctors. You
do. Schizophrenic, that’s you.
Read about it. Often happens
in timid men. Inhibitions, re-
pressions, emotions bottled”
Angrily, he yelled, “You’ve got
to go! Hear me! ”
“No. Say, get me a sleeping-
pill from the bathroom, will
you?”
“For God’s sake”
“Sleeping-pill from the bath-
room.” Her voice was a drugged
voice.
The music blared. She
wouldn’t listen. And Harrison
felt a chill go through his body.
Not moving, he glanced into the
darkness.
“Sleeping-pill,” repeated his
wife.
The chill iced over. He was very
cold. Glacial. And the muscles
in his face seemed to contract
toward his neck. A nerve under
his ear kept jumping, jumping.
“A sleeping-pill,” he echoed,
hissing the words.
He began to walk across the
room. His bare feet on the
carpet gave him a sense of wild
freedom ; right then, he felt as
though he could do anything he
wanted to do. He found the
door-knob, went out, not switch-
ing on a light. But he didn’t go
to the bathroom.
tNSTEAD he went to the
A kitchen. His hand fumbled
excitedly in the cupboard under
the sink. This was where he
kept most of his tools. He
found the handle of the hammer.
Thoughtfully he swung it in
tense little arcs.
He decided the hammer
wasn’t a good enough sleeping-
pill. So he replaced it and took
the hatchet.
His face hard, mouth slightly
parted, he went back through
the hallway to the bedroom-
door. He went through, then
pushed it to a clicking close
behind him. He leaned his back
against it.
“Got the sleeping-pill?” his
wife asked.
The light from the radio-dial
softly illuminated her face. A
cold face, cold as he felt.
“If you turned off the radio,”
said Harrison, letting her have
one more chance, just one, “you
might be able to sleep.”
“Did you get the sleeping-
pill?” Now she was angry.
“The radio stays on / I need
it r
“I’ve got the sleeping-pill,”
said Harrison, advancing now,
coming right up to the bedside
on padding feet. Something was
trembling hard in his chest; his
palm was wrapped in a slippery
way around the hatchet-handle.
“Give it to me,” said Irene.
“Now.”
“O.K. Here it is.”
He raised his arm, the hatchet
high, his mind filled with
rambling images of smashed
toys, toys that absolutely refused
function though there was
tc’ t g h
no logical reason wny .
Irene screamed as he brought
the blade down. She kept right
on screaming. But Harrison
paid no attention. The muscles
j n hj s hand and forearm bulged
a nd tightened with each hard
smashing blow.
the tim e he had finished
a jj ' hat was ] eft his v j ct j m
chattered tubes fractured
, .• sna rled wires’ flattened
P* astic ’ snarlecl wires > nauenea
* •
Then there was silence. No
Harrison Troonedthf
hat X? wifli a thumD PP to the
ba £ het Wlth a thum P to the
noor.
ND now Irene began to cry
/\. au ietlv her mechanical
han( J s hiding to the painted
mas k of her face.
slowly Harrison went around
the bed He climbed in folded
}. e P ea \ ciimpea in, roiaeci
f re tted IZ dSdTis
UrlrJfll He was as rehtxed
as if he had been on Dr. Brink’s
wonderful couch.
“Tomorrow,” he said gently,
ton iorrow, Irene, you will go
to see Dr. Brink. Because he
knows, you see, the cause of all
the trouble.”
She was .breathing heavily,
wetly, against her hands. “I
can’t go. I won’t. I don’t need
that . . . kind of thing. I
can’t” . . .
Irene was afraid —of the
silence, and what came with the
silence. Now there was no wall
of sound to protect her from her
thoughts. Now there was no
drug for her aching mind, no
way to stop those terrible
images.
With a trembling, childish
voice, she asked, “Does he hurt?
Does he stick needles in his
patients and hypnotise and make
them-suffer? Does he?”
But Harrison wasn’t listening.
For the first time in many
months, he jwas sleeping the
sleep of a man with a placid
mind.


Low' Autobiography
David Low has told of his people, his youth, his beginnings
in New Zealand, and of his caricature-cartooning with
“The Bulletin”: examples of that work, of the more
humorous or biting or simply talented kind will partly
illustrate this and subsequent instalments. Here now begins
his London career.
8
jEaBSZ&SsSjIAS this London? Bleak,
y w eli anc * uninviting. Our
feh H K arr i va l> at dusk on a
111 November evening in the
L middle of a' big railway
gWiwßil strike, was a bad start.
In the devil-take-the-
hindmost rush to catch a makeshift train
from Liverpool, our landing-port, I had
lost my baggage. I hadn’t been able to
get to a bank and I was uncomfortably
short of ready money. We had to stand
all the way packed like cattle without
even the solace of a cup of tea.
There was no one to meet us, of
course, on the ill-lit untidy Euston station
with bits of newspaper blowing about in
a chill wind. The half-dozen taxis were
snapped up, the hansom-cabs likewise.
The only vehicle left was an unbelievably
ancient growler, looking as though it had
been just vacated by Boadicea.
As we clattered along the dark back-
streets, I risked cracking the springs by
leaning out of the window. Sadness
brooded, gloom lurked, winter was
approaching; but romance was every-
where. I could hardly wait.
After dinner J left my sister unpacking
at the hotel and set out for my first
London walk. There were few street-
lights owing to a power-shortage, the
place was dark, bleak and chill, but with
imagination afire I followed my nose
along some circuitous route which 1
have never been able to rediscover, until
I found myself at the door of Madame
Tussaud’s.
The door was closed, but what of it?
This was palpable confirmation that I
was in London at last. What delight!
What joyful promise of treading the
fabulous streets, entering the enchanted
places until then only known at second-
hand in books and photographs!
I was for evermore a Londoner. But
then X had always been a Londoner.
Next evening, after a busy day of
discovery and introductions, I took
another after-dinner stroll. As I turned
through an empty street off Marylebone-
j ANTIS
•W.W.'
Kyan
TjMDOR
MANn IX
HUGHES
THE COMPLEAT WAR-WINNER
One of Low’s classic “Billy” Hughes caricature-cartoons in “The Bulletin”
(1917): the Prime Minister’s reactions to mention of a variety of subjects.
road I came on a deserted newspaper-
pitch with a string of neWsbills, under a
dim street-light not yet repaired from
the war. One caught my eye:
THE STAR .
NEW
CARTOONIST
ARRIVES
That was me. I had arrived.
©N succeeding days, until I got my
feet, I indulged my zest for rambling
the four corners of the Old Town. I
discovered the enjoyment of riding on
the tops of buses (they were open in those
days) through the November fog
surrounded by the three-plane effects
which gave me the feeling of sailing
around inside an etching.
I savored the excitement of travelling
to Piccadilly on the Underground. What
magic for tuppence! To stand on
London Bridge! To walk in the Strand!
I found St. James-street, where Gillray
had worked. I peeked at Phil May’s old
house at St. John’s Wood. But it was
the devil’s own job to get the fourteen
cups of tea per day my constitution from
custom demanded.
The “Daily News” office was very
different from The Bulletin office I had
left in Sydney. All old mahogany and
worn stone steps, solemn rooms and dark
walls, relieved by engravings of Charles
Dickens and old-time cartoons about
Chinese Slavery by Arthur Morelands.
Oh, lor,’ I thought.
“Charles Dickens was our editor,” said
someone.
“Did you say ‘was’ or ‘is’?” I
murmured
Explanations.
“Did you know that Charles Dickens”
—started off another chap.
“Charles Dickens? Who’s he?” I
asked.
The chap gave me a Wink. “Oh, one
of our sub-editors. Anyway, he only
lasted six months around here.”
That was Hugh Jones. We became
firm friends.
THE time came for me to start work.
I approached my new job with
enthusiasm. Which might have been
unfortunate, for it very nearly ended
before it had begun. After one cartoon
I resigned.
Nothing came out as I had expected.
A. G. Gardiner, the editor I had hoped
to work with, had left. In any case, I
was not to work for the “Daily News,”
but for the company’s evening-paper,
the “Star.” It looked to me a miserable
little sheet, badly printed. For the matter
of that, all the London Evenings—there
were about nine of them then—looked
miserable little sheets, badly printed, but
the “Star” was the littlest and worst-
printed of the lot.
The sort of thing I had been doing
in Australia, the stuff that had, in fact,
attracted the attention of my new
employers, was not the kind of thing they
wanted from me at all. They had
intended me to be a foil to “Poy,” the
political cartoonist of the “Evening
News,” who had been winning circula-
tion away from the other papers with
his nightly pleasantries.
Rival editors, following (heir usual
bold unoriginality, were staffing-up with
imitation “Poys.” The general idea, I
gathered with a rising fury, seemed to be
that I should be another. The, “Star”
had even plastered advertising around in
the Underground, “laugh with low”
to offset the “Evening News’s” “smile
with poy.” God!
Now, “Poy”—Percy Fearon—a dear
friend of mine in later years, had an
outlook and technique as different from
mine as chalk from cheese. There could
be opposition, but no competition. His
aim was to amuse. Mine was to ridicule.
His line was the creation of impersonal
symbols and types, many of which
became household words —“Dilly and
Dally,” .“Ducks and Drakes,” and
especially “John Citizen.” Mine was the
revival of the old Gillray practice of using
the persons of the politicians to symbolise
their policies.
To him the drawing didn’t particularly
matter, the idea was the thing. He would
wait until the last moment for “hot
topicality” and rush his picture out. To
me the idea was the excuse to make a
drawing, I thought cartoonists should
make their own topicality, and I took my
time.
In short, “Poy” was a newspaper-
cartoonist according to ( prevailing
standards, and I was not. Above all,.he
was not a space-grabber. His cartoon took
up only a shadow two-column space in
the paper. That’s the size, I was told.
Maximum for cartoons in London.
Could it be that these people knew
their jobs? I thought. Could it be that
it was I that was the chump? Well, I
would try anything once.
MY first cartoon in London was such
a mess —in two columns —that
nobody could have known what it was
about. It had a scornful paragraph in a
rival paper.
With memories of my beautiful well-
printed full pages in the Sydney Bulletin
I was desperate with disappointment and
vexation. I was face to face with the
realisation of fears which up till then I
had only vaguely felt, that the newspaper
was a good medium for the ideographic
illustration of ideas, but not for the art
of caricature. A fat chance here of any-
body ever becoming a Gillray or a
Datimier. Exit art. Enter industry.
Moving on full steam, I sped to the
office and caught the board at the tail-end
of a conference. Most of these gentlemen
were still at the welcoming stage with
me. They had been pleased enough at
the cartoon and they were expecting me
to come up with some bright quip for
tomorrow’s paper.
I took them by surprise.
Slapping half a dozen of my Bulletin
cartoons on the table and beside them
my shameful little first effort for the
“Star,” I threw a display of temperament
which would have done credit to a prima-
donna.
The board was impressed by my
passionate harangue. I impressed myself,
too. Space was vital. I had to have
room to breathe or I would suffocate.
“Gentlemen,” I said, “there has been a
mistake. That” (The Bulletin heap) “is
what you engaged me on, and that’s what
I’m anxious to do for you. This” (the
“Star” atrocity) “I am no good at. If
you want this you’ve wasted time and
money getting me here. Give me a
chance at some half-pages and if at the
end of three months I am not justified we
will tear up the contract. If not, I’m
willing to call , the whole thing off right
now.”
.Consternation. Half-page cartoons!
Unprecedented, unheard of. Worse, other
papers had not done it first. Two columns
was the size.
I reached for my hat. Very well, I’m
not that kind of a cartoonist. I resign.
What a relief at last to see a twinkle
in the eye of old Ernest Parke. That
grand old man of Fleet Street gave me
a fatherly look. He persuaded the others
and I got a half-page to do a bit of


WAITING FOR THE TIDE
(Practically from when he first started to caricature him, Low had his “Billy” Hughes taped. In this “Bulletin” full-page cartoon (1915) the other character is
Andrew Fisher; and both of them, being so indubitably fishermen, represent one of Low’s outstanding qualities—his ability to merge the originals right into the
cartoon-characters he wants them to be.)
drawing in. They would try anything
once, too.
TcpORTUNATELY my half-page next
day hit the “Star” public square in
the eye (partly because of its large size,
no doubt) and drew favorable comment
from quarters held in respect by the
board.
That made it easier to reach a tolerable
compromise on space. (Such battles in
a newspaper-office, however, are never
ended, as I was to find out.)
Not only that, but it smoothed the
way to the discouragement of interferers
who came to tell me how to draw
cartoons for a London newspaper. Mr.
Low would work at that table in that
corner. Mr. Low must not be too
political, said the circulation department.
Mr. Low must be “bright.” His cartoons
must have a ruled frame and type-titles
because the features-editor thought it
neater. Mr. Low would avoid using
thick lines and heavy blacks, forsooth,
because the printer objected that the ink
blotted through.
I was aghast. I had spent much time
working out some technical theories of
my own about the best treatment for
“Billy,” as Low’s superb caricaturing-
forerunner Will Dyson saw him.
newspaper cartoons. I must have seemed
a prickly, quarrelsome fellow about my
work during those first weeks at the
“Star” office. I stormed and swore.
“Who the hell is the cartoonist round
here?” I said, delivering cartoons on
subjects anything but “bright,” drawn
heavily with plenty of the forbidden solid
blacks, with the forbidden freehand
frames and titles. “You do your blasted
printing and I’ll do the cartoons.”
After a few more arguments everybody
was glad enough to agree that I should
do my work at home, or as far from
the office as possible ; and that I would
have the status of a signed contributor
responsible for his own opinions.
I explained very early that while I
would need'•briefing in local-color and
political background, the suggestion of
cartoon ideas was a matter for experts,
not for amateurs who don’t know what
is drawable and what isn’t, and that prob-
ably the fresh approach of a complete
stranger to the paper’s official policy
would be good journalism.
The editor, James Douglas, agreed with
alacrity. Next day, to my astonishment,
I found he himself had resigned in the
night and taken a job with Beaverbrook’s
“Sunday Express.” What sort of a jungle
was this Fleet Street?
Into his chair came Wilson Pope, a
new editor eager for harmony and
novelty. All was well. Phew! I had had
a busy time getting all that straightened
out without making any deadly enemies.
MOOTH working-conditions were
now more-or-less established.
Arrangements for private living were
not so simple.
I had been told by Jimmy
Edmond in Australia that there
were only three things against
living in Britain —the place, the
climate and the people.
With a little adjustment of ideas my
sister and I accommodated ourselves to
the first and the second. The housing
problem was acute. We had fixed our-
selves in a fairly ordinary furnished flat
off Baker-street at what seemed to me a
grotesquely expensive rent of seven-
guineas per week. It was poorly lit and
for six weeks until a heater was installed
there was no means of taking a hot bath.
Rising in the murk that passed for
daylight for a bath in a kettleful of warm
water was a depressing beginning to the
day. Sugar was scarce, meat rationed,
coal difficult. Living was confoundedly
dear, and it was evident that to live in
the comfort to which we had been
accustomed in Australia would take all
my salary.
It was freezing cold to us with our thin
Australian blood. I laid put fifteen-
pounds on the thickest overcoat the tailor
could be persuaded to make for me.
When I buttoned it up I was practically
in bed. Wearing this bed, sitting nearly in
the fire and irrigating myself with
frequent pots of tea I kept warm enough
to draw.
A PART from direct professional
contacts, London was uninviting in
a social sense. . People had got but of
the way of “entertaining” during the war,
and I had no particular luck \yith my
letters of introduction. I got the impres-
sion that Londoners were still a little shy
of people from overseas. They had got
themselves a reputation for uninhibited
independence and nonconformity.
If I didn’t know the people I met,
neither did they know me. When I intro-
duced my sister, a pretty goldilocks, to
Henry Cadbury I could see him wonder -
. ing whether she was really my sister or
just an entanglement.
Ignorance about the Dominions was
astonishing. “Are these Maoris [he
pronounced it May-ories] dangerous?”
asked my news-editor, wishing, no doubt,
to open pleasant conversation.
“Only when they are on motor-
bicycles,” I replied.
Just as well I had grown enough self-
sufficiency in my early days to be not
discomfited by solitude now. I had just
left the warmth of a wide circle of friends
in Australia to come to this desert island.
The contrast was painful.
“It will take you ten years to learn
the English,” said Will Dyson, the
Australian cartoonist, whom we found
crouching over a sinking fire in a large
dark studio, nursing a great grief at the
death of his wife.
Will, despite his sadness, was-a great
comfort in that cheerless winter of
1919-20.
From his early Bulletin days I had
been his great admirer as one of the
master caricaturist-cartoonists. Partly to
celebrate our meeting and partly to cheer
ourselves up we organised a Christmas-
dinner, getting all our Australian con-
nections together for the occasion. I
felt my sister and I were already slipping
into the error that befalls most overseas
arrivals, of recreating a piece of their own
native land to stand on instead of walking
confidently into the local way of life.
BACK to the drawing-board.
Although I had made a great fuss
about the working-conditions necessary
for transferring my Australian forms and
styles of drawing cartoons to Britain, I
soon saw that my technique would have
to become much more elastic if I were
to establish contact with London
newspaper-read ers.
Australian wit and humor, though
following English forms, had had, besides
its own native tartness, a touch of
American smartness. The English, by
all the evidence, had much more apprecia-
tion of humor than of wit. Wit was
rather the diversion of intellectuals,
narrowed to more-or-less obscure or
esoteric references and associations.
In 1920 there was no radio, and
Hollywood was young ; and the British
masses still had not only music, songs,
plays, pictures, but especially their own
local jokes, farce and broad comedy,
none of it as yet overlaid by streamlined
American imports.
The traditions were plainly discernible
in the survival of the popular old robust
jokes about drunks, buttocks and
mothers-in-law, etc., even when their
aptness had departed, and in the love
of puns and word-play, and endless
repetition and comic “characters.”
It was true that in respect of the art
Will Dyson, self-caricature: Low
here tells of meeting Dyson in
London.
of caricature there had been much
evolution and departure from tradition.
By the time the world had arrived at
1920, the original ribald rowdy fun of
the Old Masters in this department,
Gillray and Rowlandson, had been con-
siderably watered down. Leech, Doyle,
Tenniel, Sambourne and Partridge had
rubbed the rough places off the genuine
article, and substituted dignity and grace
for strength and power in political
caricature ; so that one no longer laughed
—if one laughed—from the stomach but
from the front teeth.
Will Dyson had broken up the pattern
with his striking Socialist cartoons in
the [London] “Herald” from about 1910
onwards, and had led the field during
o Continued on next page)


the First World War with his large war-
cartoons in which the monumental and
the satirical had been powerfully blended.
But when that phase of his work subsided
the harmony had resumed. In 1920, as
Gladstone once said in a similar
connection, “there was a total absence of
vulgarity which was very pleasing.”
Very pleasing, that was, for those who
thought that the aim of satire was merely
to be pleasing. In the popular press the
significant features of British graphic
political satire (as distinct from purely
humorous art) were the classical
draughtsmanship of Bernard Partridge;
the scrupulous good manners of F.
Carruthers Gould (“F.C.G.”) rounding-
off his long career as the doyen of the
Tennielesque school; the amiable symbol-
ism of “Poy”; and the socio-political
pleasantries of W. K. Hasleden.
A world war had just passed, taking,
by the feel of things, the old social order
with it. It did not require a New
Zealander standing on London Bridge to
see that much of the pre-war inspiration
of British graphic wit and humor was
outdated, overtaken and run down by
events. Gentility seemed anaemic, play-
fulness misplaced in the tougher and
rougher job of building the new world.
SO far as the British domestic scene
was concerned, it was a case not so
much of putting a patch on the past as of
building a. new future.
The impulse to change and readjust-
ment, I decided, was more likely to come
from the Left than the Right, so I inclined
Leftwards. Temperamentally I was for
the quick against the dead. I was not,
however, dogma-bound. Neither was I
overwhelmed by admiration for the
Labor party as it stood. But its fumblings
would be corrected by experience, and a
Labor - Radical Government, which
seemed a likely outcome of next election,
would provide that experience. Most
important, a virtue of the Labor party
was that it was not obstructed by its
past.
THE alternative, the Tory party, was.
In my eyes it had already committed
itself to stagnation by yielding to the
preponderance within its ranks who,
lacking imagination, could have no idea
but to return to what had been. The
“realists” were in control. Despite the
lip-service to “Homes for Heroes,” “A
Land Fit For Our Boys to Live In,” and
the other promising slogans of the
Victory election, the drift was now back
to the standards of 1914.
No vision of new worlds there. No
hope from men who feared the unknown
future and had always to cling to the
past as the familiar reality.
Their practical policy was simplicity
(in the dictionary sense of silliness) itself:
drastic economy; reduced income tax;
cut wages, nominal and actual, to pre-
war level; sweep away restrictions, wages-
boards and suchlike ; and let Nature take
its course.
Nature took its course. Profiteers
prospered scandalously, houses did not
build themselves, the cost of living refused
to come down, the long dismal road of
unemployment stretched forwards to the
crash of 1931.
TT | NEMPLOYMENT was one of the
two salient features of the early
’twenties. The other was fear.
The Russian Bolshevik revolution had
scared everybody, just as the French
revolution over a century before had
scafed our great-grandfathers.
To the nervous ones any rumble of
dissent from the disillusioned populace
became “Bolshevism” —something to be
nipped in the bud. Whereupon the'
myopic powers-that-were took the usual
“strong measures,” which, as usual, went
some distance towards Creating the reality
of their own nightmare.
It was just as well the material was
not inflammable. There was some loose
talk about Direct Action to threaten the
Government, and the three biggest trade-
unions experimentally allied themselves
for the supposed purpose of dictating
policy to the Government. But anyone
who could have found genuine revolu-
tionary possibilities in the persons of the
dull, portly, fumbling trade-union leaders
of the time and their comparatively mild,
patient and respectful followers needed a
powerful imagination.
No one remotely resembling a Lenin
or a Trotsky stood in sight. The oppor-
tunity for tidying-up Britain into a sane,
prosperous community worthy of the
British people was there ; but the only two
master-men who looked like possessing
the ability, energy and nerve to do the job
along lines of British democracy were the
two pre-war Radicals Lloyd George and
Winston Churchill—and they were on
the other side.
The opportunity passed.
A BRpAD, Britain’s foreign policy lay
somewhere within the shaky new
League of Nations, under a tangled heap
of all-in wrestlers called the Supreme
Council, arguing interminably about how
to Make Germany Pay without ruining
themselves. (The problem of how to
Hang the Kaiser without setting a
precedent had been given up.)
The United States, standing aloof, was
concerned mainly with getting back the
money it had lent its allies during the
war. Russia was a pariah seen through a
mist of tall tales and unreliable reports.
Few Western statesmen appeared to
see any likelihood of permanence in the
new Bolshevik regime. Egged-on by
PROGRESS TO LIBERTY—AMRITSAR STYLE (1919)
(Low bought himself a dingdong fight—by correspondence—with this
London "Star” cartoon.)
Lloyd George and the Double-headed Ass.
(One of Low’s early London winners.)
Winston Churchill, the British Govern-
ment was only checked by the prospect
of a general strike from carrying on with
France still further attempts to crush
it by force.
Within the Empire India writhed
uneasily and the Sinn Fein waged
guerrilla war in Ireland. The influence
of Carson, Ulster and the Tories moved
the British Government .to suppression
by drastic reprisals in kind. While
machine-guns shot bullets, officials
squirted milk-and-honey and protested
that. British Rule did not rest on force.
“A very small band of terrorists is
imposing its policy on Ireland. We
know their names,” said the British
Commander-in-Chief, going after a mad
bull with a fly-swatter.
THERE was nothing particularly new
to me about the issues raised by
most of these questions. I had made
plenty of cartoons about them already in
Australia.
Some things looked different, I found,
when viewed from London, and I had to
correct some wrong impressions I had
brought from overseas. I made a
thundering fool of myself once or twice
before I learned sense about Kemal’s
new Turkey and the importance of the
Mediterranean. I changed my mind about
President Wilson, whom I learned to
respect as a stubborn stickler for a demo-
cratic peace against a company of
“realists” who were not so particular.
At the same time I was not sure about
his great dream of self-determination in
Middle and Eastern Europe.
With some emphasis I took unpopular
lines in my cartoons, favoring the bring-
ing of Bolshevik Russia into the “family
of nations” by opening up trade, and
advocating conciliation and concession
towards Germany.
This latter guaranteed me a pretty
constant supply of trouble. But, after all,
I argued, the war was over. The Kaiser
and his Prussian Junkers were defeated,
and representatives of the common
people were in power under conditions of
political democracy as sound as could
be arranged.
That was what the Allies had fought
for. The plain common sense of it was
that we should now buttress this Govern-
ment, strengthen it against more Junkers,
big industrial bosses and warrior Kaisers.
C TP J HE Parliamentary position was like
that I had left in Australia, but on a
larger scale, with Lloyd George as a
magnified version of Billy Hughes.
Left-wing LI. G., like Left-wing Billy,
had risen to be the war-winning Prime
Minister with the aid of his former rabid
opponents, the Conservatives, shedding
the bulk of his Left connections on the
way. A snap victory-election made him
and a handful of his loyal Labor and
Liberal friends virtually the prisoners of
a vast majority of Conservative
“supporters.”
Lloyd George was reluctant to accept
that status and was obviously trying to
escape. The Tory managers were as
obviously determined to capture and
finally leg-rope the slippery David. In
consequence, the outstanding charac-
teristics of the Lloyd George-Bonar Law
Coalition Government in its last phase
were indecision, self-contradiction and
frustration.
There was no lack of material for
cartoons in all that. After a peek at
LI. G. from the Press Gallery of the
Commons I saw enough to improvise a
recognisable cartoon-figure until I could
get a good look at him. And, bless the
luck, I succeeded in finding a drawable
symbol for the Coalition.
The thing began with a remark by
Lord Birkenhead about “an invertebrate
and undefined body, such as the present
Coalition.” Lord B. had sought to give
it a reactionary spine, but he had had to
desist when he saw he could not do so
without killing the patient. James
Douglas, just before leaving the “Star,”
had written an article for it defining the
body more precisely as that of a mule,
“without pride of ancestry or hope of
posterity.”
“A present for you, Mr. Low,” said
friendly Jimmy, passing me the galley-
proof.
“A swop for you, Mr. Douglas,” I
replied, handing him a word-play-


“Wasteminster” for “Westminster” —for
his next article on economy.
Thus were born two gags which ran
for years.
Although the invention of the Double-
headed Ass saved me a lot of work—
until the Government fell off it and had
to resign—it was not evolved without a
deal of trouble. I tried it first as a mule
with two faces, then with two heads at
the front end. It looked a rather
unpleasant invention that way. After $
lot of experiment, during which my
table became littered with asses of various
kinds, I almost absentmindedly made
what autograph-collectors call a “ghost.”
I folded-over a piece of paper upon
one side of which a portion of drawing
was still wet, so that a reproduction in
reverse blotted itself upon the blank other
side. And there, with a little adjustment
of legs,'was the Coalition Ass.
After that I could have drawn it with
my eyes shut.
The Ass “took on” with “Star”
readers. I drew him in all kinds of
asinine circumstances suggesting the
futility of going both ways at once and
getting nowhere.
He was LI. G.’s racehorse, Churchill’s
charger, Bonar Law’s carthorse, Carson’s
hunter and Austen Chamberlain’s four-
footed circus marvel, besides doing duty
as the Bridge of Asses between Free
Trade and Protection, and a foster-
mother hatching a large egg representing
The Future.
The “Daily News” began to reprint
him regularly, and he was “lifted” into
provincial Liberal newspapers. Liberal
headquarters sent him out in posters and
pamphlets to political meetings, and he
began to crop-up in platform speeches up
and down the country.
His snowball progress passed him into
Parliament, when a bundle of thistles was
handed to the Prime Minister as a suitable
.diet for the two-headed Ass during a
'clebate on the Coalition Government’s
agricultural policy.
#The P.M. replied irrelevantly, “Well,
anyway, two heads are better than one.”
When I went to collect some of my
original drawings I found that some of
the best Ass pictures were missing. It
seemed that the P.M. had sent his
private secretary down to the “Star”
office and got there first.
It was all very friendly. The Ass being
a frankly comic invention, it was difficult
to make a row about him without the
complainant finishing a bigger fool than
when he began. But I soon found plenty
of trouble in other connections.
TIN India, at the country town of
■h Amritsar in the Punjab, a British force
had dispersed a nationalist crowd by
opening fire, causing great loss of life ;
and the British officer commanding had
ordered that all Indians passing through
a certain street in which a woman
missionary had been attacked should be
compelled, as a punitive measure, to crawl
instead of walking.
At the same time reprisals against the
Irish revolutionaries hardened in severity,
and the notorious Black-and-Tans were
being organised. The blood-and-iron
school were out to “stamp out agitators.”
The principles involved in
the Coalition Government’s
handling of India and Ireland
had been clear enough from
Australia, but I was eager to
see how far political considera-
tions on the spot might modify
judgment formed at a
distance.
I had imagined that a
closer view of the Irish ques-
tion would reveal arguments
against self - government
which were not to be fairly
appreciated from the other
side of the world. The
evidence was quite to the
contrary.
Indeed, I began to feel that,
after all, from afar the view
of these particular woods was
less obstructed by the trees.
I certainly did not expect to
find such obstinate stupidity
on both sides, particularly in
some influential British
quarters, where apparently it
had been determined to push
conflict to the bitter end and
lose Ireland and India totally
and finally rather than concede
just terms in time.
I became acutely aware that
my overseas origin had de-
prived me of any sympathy
with the type of British
Imperialist who assumed the
possession of primitive
emotions about one’s native
land to be patriotism among
the British, but treason
among the lesser folk. Per-
haps if those chaps could be
stuck at the receiving-end of
the Imperial connection for a
while, 1 thought, instead of
the sending end ...
On the moral issue, one
thing seemed clear about
Ireland. The possibility of
injustice to the Ulster minority
was not to be removed by
perpetuating injustice to the
Ireland majority. Minority
problems were to be justly
settled in peace, not in war.
All the talk about how the
Irish as a people had no talent
for government, and how
Home Rule would mean Rome
Rule left me cold, as
subordinate, if not irrelevant,
to the main issue. First things
first.
WITH these thoughts, I drew a cartoon
which pulled no punches. It
showed a strutting military popinjay in
British uniform, with a face of stupid
ferocity, drawn sword in hand, driving
India and Ireland wriggling along on
their stomachs.
There was a row. This was a cartoon
so far removed from the customary
pleasantries that it shocked.
For some days sizzling letters poured
in, the usual spate from people who
always complain about a newspaper-
feature when it means something, and
from those who don’t like to be told of
anything uncomfortable happening in the
world ; a bagful from those who insist
that the British can do no wrong, or
whose judgment on the public question
“Perhaps it would gee-up better if we let it touch earth.”
(Briand, of France, and Lloyd George: London “Star,” 1921, before
reparations were fixed.)
LLOYD GEORGE
(In a later instalment Low describes his splendid series of caricatures of outstanding
personalities, of which the L.G. is a typical example. Finely printed as supplements
by the “New Statesman” in the mid-’twenties.)
was smothered by some personal tragedy ;
some from people agreeing, a few
threatening.
“You’ll get- yours, you swine,” said a
postcard, signed, rather surprisingly,
“Yours sincerely.” »
The cartoon was reprinted in, among
oth&r newspapers, the “Freeman’s
Journal,” of Dublin, which was almost
immediately suppressed —to achieve
partial republication immediately across
the Channel within the hospitable pages
of the “Daily News - /’
The Irish revolt rose to crescendo in
bloody murder and ghastly reprisals. The
situation became intolerable, and the
conscience of the British people was
moved.
The Government decided to reverse its
policy and try conciliation. Everybody
suddenly became friendly again. Who
should I meet at a party but Sir Hamar
Greenwood, the Secretary for Ireland,
who was cordiality itself! How British,
I thought. All last week I was calling
you Sir Shameless, and now here I am
drinking cocktails with you.
©VERTURES and preparations for a
conference with the Irish took some
weeks. But one day I met a fellow
“Star”-man on the office stairs.
“Come on,” he said, “Michael Collins
is arriving in half-an-hour.”
A house on the corner of Pont-street
and Hans-place in Chelsea was, it
appeared, to be his retreat during the
negotiations.
We arrived barely in time to reach the
doorstep and press the bell when a car
drove up, the front-door opened, the
car-door opened, several figures leaped,
out shielding their faces with their hands,
sprinted across the footpath carrying us
all inside together. The street was empty,
but that, I gathered later, was how Irish
revolutionary leaders always came and
went.
So this was the fabulous Collins —this
pink laughing boy. For security reasons
he had not allowed himself to be photo-
graphed before, and no one had known
what he looked like. But this was a
special occasion. He would certainly pose
for me to show him to the world in a
drawing.
T was surprised to find that he knew of
me and my cartoons about Ireland, and
that he held me with warm handshakes,
as a friend.
Even if the man had not been loaded
with charm, that would have been hard
to resist. But in fact he was brimming-
over with life, youth and humor, the sort
of personality legends are made of.
Admitting that there must be murky
passages in the life of every active revo-
lutionary, I prefer them merry. The
sour ones with the tight mouths are, I
feel, too often impelled by motives quite
other than the good of mankind.
(To be continued next week )


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
fire, marine and accident insurances
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement* of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred, S. White; A. G. Parker.
H - Managing Director. P. BUKDON, Manager.
Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
Legal Notice
Ke Estate THOMAS O’KEEFE, Deceased.
TO MERLE COLIN GERARD O’KEEFE,
formerly care “Albemarle” Station, via
Broken Hill, New South Wales, but now
of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
we the undersigned paid to The Master
of the Supreme Court, Melbourne, the
sum of £762/2/1 on the 2nd July, 1956.
This represents the share of MERLE COLIN
GERARD O’KEEFE under the Will of the
abovenamed deceased. DATED the 20t'n
day of December, 1956. —GARDEN &
GREEN, Solicitors, McCallum Street,
Swan Hill, Victoria.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
HARRY HOPMAN
f_ pHE disarming little fellow
-*• who has won in Adelaide
another Davis Cup for us, Harry
Hopman, looks 40 unless you
look closely at the fine lines
drawn on Davis Cup courts and
sidelines around the World, and
then he looks just on the 50 he
became this year.
Hopman, who has been a
journalist most of his life but
gave up writing for a time last
year to go in for advertising,
is now a journalist-stockbroker
and has returned to Melbourne,
bounding about as blithely as
ever for his newspaper and lan
Potter and Co.
The Yanks call him The Fox,
The Whip and Simon Legree
(because of his training methods
with his young players) when he
wins, and Elder Brother and
Elder Statesman, if one of them
loses a match. Slim, wiry, a
cheerful fellow who really has an
inflexible purpose, he does insist
on physical fitness, and is, in
fact, a master of court-craft.
American judges reckon
Hopman’s presence beside the
court is worth a point or two in
every game to his Davis Cup
youngsters, which is not very
complimentary to them; but
Hopman, when Kramer bought
Sedgman and McGregor, smartly
produced Hoad and Rosewall.
Should Kramer net Hoad and
Rosewall with his splendid
offers, Hopman no doubt will
produce other great young
players, but the interesting ques-
tion is, if Rosewall is 1 worth
£30,000 what is Hopman himself
worth?
There is no doubt Hopman has
put Australia back on the Davis
Cup map; but a testimonial,
organised in Melbourne two
years ago, which raised about
£7OOO, is the only material
reward Hopman has received.
Perhaps it was the contempla-
tion of the financial future of
Hopman, a genius of sorts, that
frightened Sedgman and Mc-
Gregor into professional tennis.
Set.
There was only one team in
the Davis Cup challenge-round,
at Memorial Drive, Adelaide.
Of the decisive games the
doubles was the most even.
Tennis is the one ball-game in
which Australia, for the present
and probably for some time to
come, appears certain to remain
on top in the world.
# * #
Todman, brilliant record-
breaker and double-winner at
Randwick, looks a potential
champion. Having his first public
outings, he galloped effortlessly
to win on the bit, first the
December Juvenile, and then the
richer December Stakes.
Todman could add to his
record the Golden Slipper Stakes
at Rosehill, richest two-year-old
race in Australian history a
guaranteed minimum of £lO,OOO.
He will then, of course, be up
against tougher opposition. First
acceptances for the Golden
Slipper Stakes will be declared on
January 31.
M. McCarten trains Todman
for Stanley Wootton. He also
prepares the best two-year-old
filly of the season, Concert Star.
Todman, bred in New South
Wales, is by Star Kingdom (imp.)
from Oceana (imp.) by Colombo.
The bay colt Fate, winner of
Randwick First Juvenile Maiden
on Boxing Day, is also of N.S.W.
breeding—at the Woodlands
stud, Denman. One of T. J.
Smith’s team, Fate is by Damnos
(imp.) from Kismet by Buland-
shar (imp.) from lnchkeith by
Musketoon (imp.). Yet another
N.S.W. product, Merry King
easily won the Second Division.
Trained at Randwick by Sid
Cush for Mrs. M. E. King, the
gelding is by Persian Book
(imp.) from Miss Sharon, and
was bred by Sydney paddock-
bookmaker Jack Mandel. A first
foal, Merry King is from a half-
sister to Ballroom, a winner of
the A.J.C. Summer Cup.
When Baystone landed the
A.J.C. Summer Cup he won his
third race in four starts. Prior
to scoring in the Rosehill
Flandicap early in December he
had won Caulfield’s Eclipse
Stakes (both at 10 furlongs), and
over the Villiers mile he finished
third to Empire Link and Com-
pound. Hard-ridden by Mulley
in the Cup, he got up in time to
beat the favorite, Prince Delville,
and outsider Persian Link. The
latter’s form-improvement was
good enough to suggest that he
might add more races to his
record, which includes, of
course, the 1955 Doomben Cup.
In her racing days True.
Course was top-class, earning
£25,654 from 12 firsts and nine
minor placings, £13,394 of it (a
record for a filly) being won at
two-years. Her two-year-old
daughter, Windflower, by
Delville Wood (imp.), making a
racing debut in Caulfield’s
Carnegie Stakes for fillies on
Boxing Day, won rather impres-
sively from Ninbah and the
favorite Receptive. Windflower
—raced by A. R. Creswick, who
raced True Course —is a
daughter of Midstream (imp.)
and Urunalong by Magpie (imp.)
from Farfadet (imp.) by Hurry
On.
New Zealand-bred Seabeau,
trained by Basil Conaghan, made
his first appearance on Boxing
Day, and acted right up to
advance news of his galloping
ability by winning Caulfield’s
Holiday Stakes for two-year-old
colts and geldings by the best
part of 10 lengths. -Son of Able
Seaman (imp.) and Namakia by
Gay Shield (imp.), Seabeau was
bred by Mrs. B. H. McAnulty,
of Pokeno, and is a half-brother
to Coleridge, leading stakes-
wfnner (two-year-olds) in the
1954-55 Dominion season.
Namakia, winner of 10 races, is a
half-sister to Neenah, who had
15 wins. Able Seaman, sire of
several good winners in New
Zealand, is by Admiral’s Walk
from Charmeuse by Salmon
Leap.
The two-miles Auckland Cup,
run on Boxing Day, was won by
Y'eman (7.5), a comparative out-
sider. Followed home by
Straight Lead and Llanisfair,
Yeman covered the distance in
3.20 f. A few days previously' he
had won the Avondale Cup.
At the January 18 and 23
New Zealand national sales 425
yearlings will be submitted.
Fifteen Australian Derbies have
been won by horses catalogued
at these sales, and they have had
45 classic successes, taking
Australia and N.Z. together.
New Zealand-bred gallopers
won £283,620 in stakes during
the 1955-56 season, mainly
through Rising Fast, Toparoa,
Gay Sierra, Prince Cortauld,
Aboukir and El Khobar. Lot l
at the coming sales is a bay colt
by Treasure Hunt (imp.) from
Lance Tor, and will be offered
by S. Gibson, of Christchurch.
He’s from the family which
produced El Khobar and Fox
Myth (winner of £23,561 in
stakes).
A brother to Rising Fast
will be another N.Z. sales offer-
ing (January 18). The youngster
is by Alonzo (imp.) from
Faster by Mr. Standfast (imp.).
Faster is a half-sister to Mid-
night Fox, the dam of Silver
Phantom, whose wins include
the AJ.C. Epsom in record
time. The early sale-session will
also include a sister to El
Khobar and close relatives to
Beaulivre, Delta, Prince Cor-
tauld, True Course, Earldom,
Syntax, Limarch and Grey
Boots, and there’s certain to be
keen competition for Monte
Carlo’s brother, bred by Ken
Austin at his Inglewood stud,
Kaiapoi.
Edgar Britt, looking particu-
larly fit, renewed many acquaint-
ances at Randwick, looking over
the midsummer racing with his
former master Mick Polsen.
Britt reckons the likely 'best
three-year-old colts in England
this season (begun on January
1) will be Pipe of Peace and
Eudeamond, and the possible
best three-year-old fillies Sarcelle
and Taitinger. Britt, who broke
a leg a few months ago, but has
fully recovered, is on a visit to
Melton Park stud (Vie.), which
he owns in partnership with
former Melbourne jockey
Harold Jones.
Horse-trainers, like jockeys
and other apparent experts, are
not so hot when it comes to
picking winners. A number of
trainers are members of a Rand-
wick social club of 20 sub-
scribers. Each contributes £1
weekly, anc| from the pool every
Saturday and public holiday,
each member in turn tries his
luck at picking a winner. From
the pool £lO is withdrawn and
placed on the selection, but not
many winners have come to
light. And trainers have missed
the bus most of the time! Other
members have occasionally
landed a good winner. At the
end of each year the members
hold a Christmas-party, and
from the funds local charities
benefit.
The next three Sydney, race-
meetings will be held at Canter-
bury, after which there’ll be a
return to Randwick for the
January 19, 26 and 28 races, the
two last-named dates starring the
Challenge Stakes and the
Anniversary.
Anzac Day this year will fall
during the A.J.C. Autumn meet-
ing, and the usual Wednesday
racing will be programmed on
the Thursday, when events will
include the Champagne Stakes.
This year the £6OOO Doncaster
(one mile) will be decided on
Easter Saturday, April 20, and
the £12,500 Sydney Cup (two
miles) on Monday, April 22.
Tuesday, January 29, is
nomination-day for the main
events of the Randwick autumn
carnival.
Buying a yearling is a gamble
all right! Royal Kingdom
recently sold, after his owner had
got tired of meeting the feed-
bills and so forth—cost a near-
record 6500gns. as a yearling.
His contribution for his first
owner was a minor Maiden win
at Canterbury. A few more,
with cost as yearlings: Dominant
(record 6750gn5.), Narg o o n
(6500gn5.), Noble Archer
(6500gn5.). Some others ; almost
dead losses to connections:
Paranilo (5800gns.), Avaunt
Courier (5500gn5.), Tengur
(5250gn5.), Canute (5200gn5.),
Militant (5100gns.).
Tasmanian racing reaches its
peak between mid-January and
mid-February, when the two big
meetings of the year are staged.
In all £lO,OOO will be distributed.
Tasmanian R.C.’s chief draw-
card is the Hobart Cup (U mile),
run on Feb. 20, for which an
excellent entry has been received
by secretary Brian Osborne. Cup
weights will be announced
tomorrow (Thursday). Tas-
manian T.C.’s 91st Laun-
ceston Cup carnival will spread
over three.days (January 19, 23,
and 26), with the mile-and-a-half
Cup as the main highlight. The
Tasmanian Derby and the Sires’
Produce Stakes will be pro-
grammed on the opening day
and the Cup on the second day.
+ +
The Victoria-N.S.W. Shield
game in Melbourne finished in
a tie. N.S.W., set 161 to win
outright, seemed to have the
game won ; but young bowlers
Kline and Meckiff had different
ideas. Last man Burke, batting
with a broken finger, was out
with the total right on 160. It
was the first tie ever in Shield
cricket.
By two incidents the recent
Queensland-W.A. Shield game
in Perth recalled cricket of the
’thirties. On the first day W.A.’s
left-hand fast-bowler Hubert
Bevan, playing his first Shield
game, was no-balled nine times
probably no Australian
bowler has been called to that
extent since Victoria’s Ernie
McCormick was no-balled 19
times in three overs against
Worcester in 1938. The other
incident was on the last day,
when the other Westralian fast
man, Ron Gaunt, bowled
bumpers with a packed leg-field,
until stopped—the first “body-
line”'bowling in Australia since
1932-33.
“Keima”: ’Keepers Langley
and Tallon had somewhat similar
farewells to Sheffield Shield
cricket. Both played one Shield
game after returning from a tour
of England, and then retired, and
both went out with a glorious
last innings (in each case the
second innings of the game, each
time against N.S.W.). No need
here to cite Langley’s effort;
Tallon’s, in the first Shield game
of 1953-54, was 54 not-out in
35min., with nine fours in
Wisden’s words, “a brilliant
stroke-making display.”
• • • •
“A.L.D.”: That one physi-
cally handicapped can yet do a
lot for sport is shown by the
record of Peter Scully, son,of a
former Federal Minister of
Agriculture. A disability has
prevented him from playing any
sport, but, with a keen interest
in cricket, for several years he
has been working on a scheme
to get as many lads as possible
playing the game around
Tamworth (N.S.W.), where he
lives. This year he has organised
six teams—one in the Saturday-
afternoon first-grade competition,
one in Jhe senior reserve-grade
competition, a team in the under-
-16 junior-grade and two teams
in the under-13 junior-grade
(Saturday mornings) and a team
in the Sunday social competition.
“Stromlo”: At a recent meet-
ing at Lord’s all members of the
Imperial Cricket Conference
agreed that an innings can be
closed at any time on the first
day, and the M.C.C. has now
put it into the laws affecting all
classes of cricket. At the meet-
ing an attempt was made to get
some universal rule on appeals
against the light, and it was also
suggested that the lunch-interval
be made flexible in Tests as in
other matches. It was felt that
when players have been idle
in the morning it is not too
much to ask even a Test side to
extend the time in the field in
one session of play—a feeling
that will be endorsed by all
cricket spectators. The vexed
problem of bowler-drag, also
discussed, remained unsettled.
The feeling in England was stated
to be that the only satisfactory
way out would be that the front
foot must not go beyond the
popping-crease, while Australia,
of course, believes that as long as
the back foot is behind the
bowling-crease everything’s O.K.
The counties were asked to
experiment next year with the
English idea. In county-cricket
next year the new ball will again
be taken after 75 overs or when
200 runs have been scored. Also
the ball will be considered dead,
and no leg-byes will be scored,
when the batsman fails to make
any stroke at the ball.
* * *
“Holyboy”: “K.R.” (B.
31/10/’56) is way off the beam
when he says that Morna Pearce,
captain of All Australia ladies'
hockey-team, is a sister of the
three Pearce boys who played in
the Aussie Olympic hockey-
team. They came from India
quite recently, while Miss Pearce
was born on a farm here at
Moulyinning (W.A.). As far as
I know they’re no relation at all.
May Pearce, sister of Moma,
went to America just before
World War II with a hockey-
team, captain I think. Another
sister, Jean Wynne, captained
our team that went to England
a few years ago. Three other
Pearce girls played a prominent
part in W.A. hockey and two
boys played League-football with
Claremont and Swan Districts in
the Perth League, so the whole
family has a wonderful record in
W.A. sport. Morna Pearce,
incidentally, was voted this year’s
W.A. Sportsman of the Year. A
month or so ago she married
John Hyde, former Geelong
footballer and now captain-
coach of Claremont.
* * *
“Jock”: Two Chinese play
bowls with Sydney clubs. They
are Choy Woo, of Balmain and
Harbord clubs, and Arthur Yee,
of Fairfield. Woo, who won the
Balmain minor singles in 1952,
after only 18 months in the
game, is considered a possible
State singles-finalist. A pennants
player for Balmain, he was in the
rink that won the Earlwood Open
trophy in 1955. Years ago Yee
was a grade cricketer with
Northern Districts and a first-
grade Soccer-player with Glades-
ville.


TILLEY
PRESSURE
Regd,
\\ I /
..- , v.
’CtUMsiSaSC
/ / \ \
irons
smoother
faster!
100%
BRITISH MADE
★ EASY TO USE.
★ DRAUGHTPROOF- USE IT IN OR OUT OF DOORS
★ NO WIRES OR FLEXES.
★ COMPLETE AND SIMPLE HEAT CONTROL.
★ BURNS 4 HOURS ON ONLY |rd PINT \
OF KEROSENE.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia.
In case of difficulty write for name of your
nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER RD„ ESSENDON. VICTORIA.
Sabety Joe
By J. P. CARROLL
IT was night-time, eleven-
o’clock, and in each man’s
hand a signal-lamp swung
the slow rhythm of his gait.
As the four men neared the
office they became only one of
many gangs of shunters con-
verging on the building; for
this was the control-centre of
the expansive Melbourne railway
marshalling-yards. Then, as if
by some ritual, the swinging
hand - lamps were quickly
extinguished. The afternoon-
shift were signing-off.
Already the night - shift
shunters were assembled at the
office. Suddenly, at the point
where the distance between the
waiting men and approaching
men became talking-distance,
the whole yard accelerated into
action again. It seemed the
afternoon-shift realised in the
sight of their relievers that off-
going was home-going. Pace
quickened and voices rose as
leading shunters tried to convey
change-over instructions to their
opposites above the noisy banter
of “chasers” and “hookers-off
“Ballarats in twenty-two road.
Inter-States in twenty-seven,”
yelled a leader.
“ ’Ow’d yer like to be going
’ome to bed, Ginger?” jibed a
chaser.
“There’s a Seymour in the guts
of South-east loading in thirty.”
“What donkey did the miss-
drop in thirty?”
“Loading in seven - bank
double-coupled. Five stock-
trucks standing open in three.
Paper-train O.K. in three-level
and.....”
This clearing-house of shifts
was short-lived. Gangs of night-
shift shunters lit their lamps and
broke off to various sections of
the yard. Activity mounted with
fixed signals semaphoring a fleet
of shunting locos from the
near-by depot, and, even now,
the repetitious metallic sounds
of slamming buffers and the
harshness of shunting loco.-
exhausts dominated the atmos-
phere. The last and biggest gang
left office and headed off to
the gravitation-section; called
“the gravvy” for short.
GINGER DALY, a chaser,
and Joe Burton, the “neck-
man,” were respectively the
baby and old man of the gravvy
gang, and this contrast may have
been the affinity between them.
Generally, though, it seemed
they were never far apart, for
the reasons that Ginger delighted
in teasing Joe, and Joe reckoned
Ginger needed the wisdom of
age to guide him away from
being a “reckless young fool.”
“Well, little dark safe man,”
Ginger greeted Joe, “how’s the
hand-lamp; all cleaned, trimmed
and free-acting?”
“Me lamp’s me life,” Joe
replied sagely. “You should
remember that about your lamp,
too.”
“Now, don’t preach to me so
early in the night, little man,
Or I’ll carry you down to the
gravvy in me hip-pocket.”
“One of these days, young
feller, your big frame won’t beat
Fate. I might be a little bloke,
but I make up fer size with
plenty of safety, and I’ve beat
Fate fer forty years now.”
Ginger playfully clapped his
large hand on Joe’s shoulder.
“These are modern times, little
man. No chain - and - hook
couplings now; all automatic,
just pull a lever and”
Joe stopped walking and
looked up seriously at the young
man. “But there’s still buffers,”
he broke in. “It’s buffers that
get you when you’re careless.”
With a cheeky laugh Ginger
picked pp the diminutive Joe ;
then, despite the other’s swearing
protests, carried him over to
the “neck” like a bag of wheat.
After being dumped Joe tried
to relieve his indignity by driving
his boot at the young man’s
backside, but Ginger was sprint-
ing well out of reach towards
the chaser’s roads. “You’ll get
too cheeky one day,” Joe shouted
angrily, then mumbled to him-
self, “The young fool takes too
much fer granted.”
The gravitation-yard was on a
slope. Halfway down Joe
handled an intricate set of
switching-points at the “neck,”
so named because all roads
above, which received the
incoming trains, converged at
Joe’s points, then fanned out
again to numerous roads below ;
manned by the chasers.
After detaching an engine
from a train the leading shunter
chalked a chaser’s road-number
on each truck; thus sorting-out
the various truck-destinations.
The sequence of these road-
numbers was also marked on
cards so that chasers could
anticipate truck-movements. At
the leader’s signal the “hooker-
off” uncoupled trucks in groups
of.identical destinations and set
them rolling down to Joe, whose
selected points diverted them to
the chaser concerned.
Ginger and the other chasers
knew the oncoming trucks as
“drops,” which had to be routed
to the correct road, braked
to control their increasing
momentum.
Everything was going
well tonight. The loading on
incoming trains was marshalled
so that trucks came down to the
chasers in large groups of the
same destination. This meant
less chasing; for trucks coming
down singly or in small groups
allowed little time between brak-
ing one “drop” and the rush to
set the points for the next.
Ginger, however, was bored.
He regarded the race to get a
set of points just in time as a
challenge ; as though his chaser’s
reputation depended on it.
Ginger looked towards the bank-
section where they “kicked”
their trucks with a pilot-engine.
“That’s real shunting,” he
reflecteds; then glanced away
discontentedly up towards Joe.
His thoughts rested on Joe.
“Funny old coot. Don’t think
he’d risk a zack on a certainty.”
He watched the older man select-
ing his points and his methodical
caution in standing clear as each
drop of trucks rolled by.
Caution! The' word seemed to
irritate Ginger tonight. He
thought-up a remark to yell at
Joe that would taunt the old man.
into a preaching rejoinder. But
the leading shunter’s call
intervened.
“Ballarats into forty-two road.
Thirty-fives into forty. Midlands
and Northerns into thirty-one,”
yelled the leader.
Ginger had no time for
boredom now. The leader’s call
was a verbal rearrangement of
truck-markings due to a chaser’s
road for Ballarat loading having
filled to capacity. Ginger had
to concentrate and substitute a
different road to that marked
on each drop. Failure to
memorise the leader’s call often
caused trucks to become
“wrong - roaded” or “miss -
dropped”; a sin in Ginger’s
estimation, but to the average
chaser it meant an abusive bawl-
ing-out from the leader.
Already a chaser had miss-
dropped a rake of trucks and the
leader was letting him know
about it.
The chaser sought consola-
tion from Ginger. “Listen to
the b !”, he complained.
“If he’d tell the hooker-off not
to drop ’em so fast, I’d have a
chance of catching ’em.”
“You’ve gotta chase ’em to
catch ’em,” Ginger grinned back
unsympathetically but without
malice.
“All right, smart-alec,” the
chaser replied, his feelings hurt.
“There’s a forty and a thirty-
seven road coming at you. Let’s
see your form.”
Ginger realised the chaser was
right. The hooker-off was
dropping the trucks down at too
close an interval, leaving the
chasers only a fraction of time
to route succeeding drops to
their correct roads. Ginger
knew he could flash a red signal
to the leader under these circum-
stances, but when he saw the
triumphant smirk on the other
chaser’s face, his daredevil
impulses got the better of him.
Gipger made a run to forty-road
points. It was then he got a
startling glimpse of Joe.
A rare error of judgment, in
standing clear, had caught the
heel of Joe’s boot in between a
tapering pair of point-blades —
and a rake of trucks was head-
ing towards him.
ONLY one thought was in
Ginger’s mind now—to
make his run to help Joe. But
the trucks for forty-road were
going to cause a delay if he
waited for them to pass. Ginger
decided to save time.
As the trucks passed, Ginger
jumped on to a step-board, then
to the buffer. He was in between
the trucks now ; standing on the
coupling. One more step to the
opposite buffer, then to the
ground ... but Ginger’s foot
slipped; his boot jammed in
between the two buffer-faces.
He tried to drag his boot clear,
but it was firmly wedged. He
tried to use one hand to apply
extra pressure or to undo his
boptlace. This only upset his
balance and forced him to use
both hands for hanging on.
In a moment the trucks on
which he was trapped would
collide with those standing
further on; then all the buffers
would be compressed, crushing
his foot to pulp. Ginger’s
knuckles turned white with
pressure. He screamed an
incoherent cursing appeal for
help.
The reverberating salvo of
buffers in violent collision
echoed throughout the yard.
WHEN Ginger came-to, he
tried to place his somehow
familiar surroundings. He saw
the yard. - foreman staring
anxiously at him and realised he
was lying on a couch in the yard
first-aid room. A well-dressed
stranger was there also.
Ginger sat-up quickly with a
nervous, half-demanding in-
quiry: “My foot? Is it . . .?”
The doctor rolled back the
blanket at the end of the couch.
Ginger saw he still had his boots
on —both of them!
Seeing the doctor’s reassur-
ing smile, Ginger lay back ; re-
lieved but bewildered. Then a
fearful pang of recollection
swelled up inside him.
“What about Joe?”
The yard-foreman replied
quietly, You can ask him your-
self m a minute,
Ginger couldn t work it out.
The yard-foreman said, Joe did
a magnificent run and braked the
rear portion of the trucks you
were on. It made the buffers
expand enough for your chaser-
mate to pull your boot clear,
When the trucks collided you
only bumped your head,
Joe came into the room as the
other two left,
“Looks >“?'' I ""V 1 ° gg
for a lucky break. Ginger said,
There was no luck about it,
son,’ Joe replied, hiding up a
boot nearly torn to shreds by
the pounding between truck-
wheels and the rails
Ginger stared at the boot.
“ Struth. I shoulda known it.
Bloody elastic-siders! You re
always at me to wear ’em.”
“Yeah; all I had to do was
pull me foot outa the boot,” Joe
sa jd. “Like you coulda done
with your boot caught in the
buffers.” , f .
“You told me about the
buffers, too, didn’t you,” Ginger
ejaculated contritely
j oe was making the best of
the situation. Fate can never
beat me, because Fm always a
jump ahead of her....
Ginger bore the sermon m
silence. ... , « .
Outside in the yard fixet
signals swung to clear, and,
one by one ’ shuntin g locos
chugged towards the near-by
engine-shed. Shunters, waiting
outside the yard-foreman’s
office, stood yarning and smoking
and watching the approach of
gangs of uniformed men in the
distance. The day-shift weie
waiting. The night-shift weie
signing-off.


m
WARWICK
PRESBYTERIAN
SCHOOLS
a
m
Rolls now open for boarders 2
for 1957 ...
AT THE SCOTS COLLEGE, boys
from 6 years of age up to
University Matriculation en-
rolled. Full schooling in
Academic, Commercial,
Manual Training Courses.
Principal: Mr. A. W. Briggs,
B.A.
AT THE PRESBYTERIAN GIRLS’
COLLEGE, thorough education
from Preparatory Grade to
University Matriculation,
Full Academic, Commercial,
Domestic Science Courses.
Principal: Miss V. JVI. B.
Twiss, M.A.
First Term commences: 29th January, 1957
Fees for Senior Boarders for 1957: £BB per term
WRITE TODAY FOR PROSPECTUS, TO:
The Principal
The Scots College
WARWICK, Q’LD.
The Principal
The Presbyterian Girls
College, WARWICK, Q'LD.
Divorce Notices*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT McLEAN BROWN late of
Salvation Army City Men’s Hostel Albion
Street Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
MARJORIE AILEEN BROWN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 983 of 1956 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards and
is asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under S. 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by Bth March 1957
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from BOYCE & BOYCE, Solicitors,
of 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar. __
IN~THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR DENNIS McMAHON
of Bath Road Kirrawee. —TAKE NOTICE
that BETTY MAY McMAHON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 533 of 1956 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Ist day of March 1957 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. J. B. MOFFATT & SON, Soli-
citors, of 104 Hunter Street, Sydney. —J-
DOUGHAN, Registrar,
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEO 808 AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS•
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD B. KNOX, ORWELL
PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fir*, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
NEW MIDDLE EAST RULERS
A N interesting addition to the
suggested causes of the wane
of British influence in the Middle
East is made by a correspondent
of London “Time and Tide,”
who takes as his text a quota-
tion from the autobiography of
Sir Alec Kirkbride, “that loyal
servant of the Arabs.”
One of the great problems of
today, the “Time and Tide”
writer comments, is pointed by
Kirkbride’s statement that as
“men whom I had known as
children came to power, it
became more and more difficult
to establish with the newcomers
that sympathetic co-operation
which had marked my relations
with their fathers.”
Going back over Middle East
history, the “Time and Tide”
correspondent recalls that in the
days of the Ottoman Empire
“diplomats of all nations came
from much the same class”:
“They were mostly aristocrats
who enjoyed the same amuse-
ments, acquaintances and
incomes. Life in Constantinople
did not differ greatly from that
in Madrid, and the Turkish
governing classes moved as
easily in cosmopolitan high
society as did the British. Both
represented a ruling class, the
pillars of whose world seemed
fixed.
“The collapse of Turkey in
1918 changed all this. For
Britain, at least, a new type of
dipl<jmat emerged in the Middle
East. Formerly a soldier or civil
servant, he remained after the
war to administer the newly
liberated territories. As each in
turn became independent, the
Glubbs,, Philbys and Kirkbrides
stayed on either as advisers to
independent monarchs or as
members of British diplomatic
missions accredited to the new
States. Their, knowledge of the
Arabs and their aspirations was
infinitely greater than that of
their predecessors at the
Sublime Porte, but their contact
with the rising generation was
inevitably restricted.
“This was partly due to their
age. King Hussein, in dismissing
Glubb Pasha, alleged he was
old fashioned and militarily out
of date. It would have been
more honest to have admitted
that a young man of 21, what-
ever his country or profession,
will always find difficulty in
understanding a man of 60.
“Another cause for this lack
of contact with the newcomers
may be blamed on the natural
affinity between Briton and
Bedouin which led to undue
attention being paid to nomads
with no political importance and
to the neglect of the less attrac-
tive but better educated urban
classes. And partly it was due
to the Arab statesmen who
stepped into the breach left by
their Turkish masters.
“King Abdullah and King
Feisal, and the Arabs who served
them, were men of the world
who shared much in common
with their British advisers, not
least campaigns and battles
endured together. A man like
Tewfiq Abdulhuda, so often
and so long Prime Minister of
Jordan, would have been as
much at home as a Turkish
‘Vizier’ as he was as First
Minister of an independent
State. Those British who advised
on Middle East policy grew up
with these men and knew them
intimately, but both alike were
out of touch with the new
generation slowly struggling to
the top.”
British diplomats, however,
were, the “Time and Tide”
writer continues, less blame-
worthy for failing to learn about
the newcomers in view of the
kind of society from which they
had risen:
“Mostly they are youngish
Army officers, of indifferent
(ILLINGWORTH, IN LONDON “DAILY MAIL”)
social status and usually poor.
Their knowledge of the West is
gleaned from visits and attach-
ments to foreign armies
(normally the British), where a
lieutenant draws more pay than
their own majors and is not
further handicapped financially
by a wife, several children and
a hoard of indigent relations.
They are supported by junior
Government officials, equally
poor and lowly, who share their
disgust for the corruption,
inefficiency and nepotism to be
seem on every side.
“Conscious of the inferiority
of their own armies and institu-
tions when compared with those
of the West, acutely aware of
their newly-acquired independ-
ence, these young men have
emerged from the chrysalis with
two dominant attributes. One
is a fixed conviction that their
rulers are to blame for all that
is wrong in the State and in
their own character. The other
is an inferiority complex which
can be redressed only by a sort
of blustering bravado and trucu-
lent nationalism.
“It is this latter which led,
more than anything else, to the
coup in Jordan where previously
relations between British and
Arabs had been excellent. It is
endemic throughout the Middle
East and accounts for much of
the unpleasantness which so
many Europeans encounter there
today. Like acne, it is a blemish
of adolescence, but none the less
regrettable.”
Getting to know these new-
comers, the writer adds, is an
almost insuperable problem:
“Since they were all
impoverished, they were not to
be met at Gezira, or around the
bar at the St. George’s hotel in
Beirut. They could not afford
to play polo, shoot in the Delta,
or give cocktail-parties in
Amman. Although some of them
had British acquaintances, they
were hopelessly handicapped
when it came to entertaining
them. They lived in different
income-brackets and, being
intelligent men, were perfectly
aware of the fact.
“Even worse was the fact that
scarcely any social intercourse
existed between their wives and
the British community. They
were unknown to the Embassies
and High Society. After all,
what does the American
Ambassador in London know of
the social life of majors and
captains in Aldershot? Yet it
was from the Egyptian equiva-
lent of these that the revolution
against King Farouk received its
impetus, and the same is true of
Jordan. He who controls the
Army controls the State, said
one successful Latin-American
revolutionary, and this is as true
of Syria as it is of Guatemala.
Yet these Army officers were
unknown, unsuspected and
ignored until suddenly they have
come to the top.
“They differ greatly from
those they have overthrown.
They have passionate convic-
tions, enthusiasm which the
East has not yet had time to
wither and honesty which power
has not yet corrupted. On the
reverse side of the medal they
are arrogant with success,
politically immature and alert
for the slightest sign of con-
descension or patronage. Most
of them lack education in its
widest sense, their standards are
limited by their surroundings
and upbringing and they have
not so far displayed much grati-
tude for those who made their
emergence from insignificance
possible, as witness the Jordanian
attitude towards Sir John Glubb.
“But they are sincere, they
believe profoundly in Arab
greatness and they control three-
fourths of the world’s oil. We
have been singularly unsuccess-
ful so far in achieving a meeting
of minds, but somehow we must
do so. For, if we cannot, then
the Russians surely will.”
Germany and Hungary
Commenting editorially on the
effect on West Germany of
“Soviet brutality in Hungary,”
“New York Times” notes that
“the result has been threefold”:
“It has destroyed the illusions
of the Socialists and of other
parties that the most burning
German problem—reunification
—can be solved by renouncing
Chancellor Adehauer’s policy of
strength and alliance with the
West in favor of a policy of
weakness and a deal with the
Soviets.
“It has shocked Germany into
a realisation of the danger of
further delays in German
rearmament and led to a speed-
up of German rearmament.
“Finally, it has emphasised
again the absolute necessity of
European unification, to which
French-German co-operation is
the key.”
These effects, the “N. Y.
Times” adds, “can be seen in
the adoption of a military
‘crash’-programme in which the
plan for a slow and parallel
build-up of 12 German
divisions comprising 500,000
men by 1960 has been replaced
by a new plan to put seven fully-
manned and -equipped divisions
in the field during the next year
to reinforce Nato defences.
“These seven divisions will
comprise only 120,000 men,
instead of the 270,000 originally
scheduled for the end of next
year. But the whole emphasis
is now on ready and effective
cadres which can be filled-up in
case of emergency and can be
expanded as soon as facilities
become available.”
Also noting the desire for
unification •as the dominant
emotion in West Germany,
Edinburgh “Scotsman” points
out that, while “West Germany
has been one of the strongest
supporters of economic co-
operation in Western Europe, it
is as well to recognise frankly
that reunification is an aim
much dearer to German hearts:
“The conditions under which
reunification might be achieved
would open the way for a
expansion of trade with Ger-
many’s traditional markets in
Eastern Europe, and there is no
doubt now that the satellites are
in desperate need of many of the
things that German industry
could provide. This must be
borne in mind in addition to all
the other pressures towards
reunification. Modern Germany
has . always in the long run
sought unity in preference to
other aims.”
The question that arises from
this paramount desire for unity
—noted by Walter Lippmann in
New York “Herald Tribune”
and by “Manchester Guardian”
—is “how would they [the West
Germans] react to a rising in
Eastern Germany?”
1 “This,” the “M anchester
Guardian” adds, “is by no
means an abstract question”:
“Although the standard of
living is higher there [East Ger-
many] than anywhere else in
Eastern Europe, the contrast
with. Western Germany causes
sharp discontent; and although
Soviet troops are several times
thicker on the ground than they
were in Hungary or Poland in
October, Herr Ulbricht must be
the best-hated satellite dictator
still in power.
“If anything like the events of
June 17, 1953, were to occur
again—and some of the West
Berliners who surged towards
the Brandenburg Gate on
November 5 certainly seem to
have hoped they were on a
liberation march—it is difficult
to believe that the West Ger-
mans, remembering Hungary,
would remain passive either as a
Government or as three-quarters
of a nation.”
U.S. Economy
America’s booming economy
continues to defy the prophets
of disaster, and figures given by
the American independent
weekly “U.S. News and World
Report” (based on U.S. Depart-
ment of Commerce studies) indi-
cate that, in the last fifteen
years, the average American
family-income has increased by
150 per cent, from $2210 to
$5520 a year; that the cost of
living has increased by 88 per
cent.; and that the average
family’s Federal tax has gone
up by 440 per cent. —the total
result of which is a 25 per cent,
increase in the standard of
living.
Giving an overall picture,
New York “Herald Tribune”
comments editorially that
“national output climbed to a
record yearly rate of $413,000
million in the third quarter [of
1956] and now has advanced
slightly more than $ll,OOO
million since the end of 1955.
“Bigger consumer - purchases
of softgoods and services,
mounting State- and local-
government outlays for schools,
roads, hospitals and other public
works and tremendous business
spending for new productive
equipment have sparked the
output-rise.
“The simultaneous income-
advance has lifted consumer
receipts to a new peak yearly-
rate of $328,500 million. Con-
sumers have been increasing
their buying as rapidly as their
incomes have grown larger. The
demonstrated willingness of
consumers to spend strongly
suggests that heavy consumer-
buying will continue to buoy
the economy during the weeks
immediately ahead.
“The United States now is
well on its way toward the


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME . .
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/8 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 96S Wfllington, N.Z.)
$500,000-mill ion-a-year produc-
tion-target that President Eisen-
hower has said can be achieved
by 1965. At the present rate it
will attain the goal well ahead
of schedule.” *
Two odd facets of the
boom are noted by London
“Economist’s” W ashington
correspondent and by Peregrine
Worsthorne in London
“Twentieth Century.”
The “Economist” writer points
out that . “the United States
manufactures far more than any
country on earth, but it is not a
manufacturing nation: only
about one in four members of
the labor-force worses in a
factory. It eats very well and
exports vast quantities of farm-
products besides, but it is not a
farming nation: only 10 per cent,
of the labor-force ,is now
engaged in agriculture, compared
with 20 per cent, as recently as
1939. It buflds more than any
other country except perhaps
the Soviet Union; yet less than
5 per cent, of the labor-force is
engaged in construction.
“Americans now earn their
livings predominantly by pro-
viding services or by distribut-
ing and transporting goods.
With workers at all levels of
government added, these people
come to half of the total labor-
force and well over half of the
non - agricultural labor - force.
Consumers spend three times as
much on services as they spend
on all durable goods put together,
including automobiles.”
This economy, “so luxuriant
in .services,” the “Economist”
writer continues, “may have a
serious flaw”:
“An American garage-
mechanic or bus-driver or shop-
hand or bartender rightly insists
on being paid a wage in line with
the rising standards of his
society, but in this type of work
it is frequently impossible to
do anything by capital invest-
ment to improve productivity.
Therefore the price of the
services provided must of
necessity rise to cover the higher
wage-costs.
“Charges for services and for
most types of transportation
have in fact risen regularly all
during the period of price-
stability which ended this year.
The Consumer price-index as a
whole remained steady only
because food-prices were falling
and the prices of most manu-
factured consumer-goods were
either falling or stable. This
year food-prices rose and the
index whirled briskly upward.
“This ‘inflation’ is not a
problem of excessive demand.
It is certainly not a problem of
monetary laxity—for the past
18 months American monetary
policy has been increasingly stiff,
with the result that the money-
supply has actually grown at a
slower rate than has the gross
national product.
“It is not even a problem of
excessive trade-union power and
insufficient labor- restraint,
bolstered by full employment.
Most workers in services and
distribution are not even
organised, and trade-unions in
general bargain for only about
a quarter of the labor-force. If
it be argued that the unions
have set the wage-pattern and
standard of living which the
workers in services and distribu-
tion feel they are entitled to
emulate, this can scarcely be
blamed on the unions.
“In manufacturing generally,
where the trade-unions are con-
centrated, a good case can be
made for the argument—
extremely elusive statistically—
that wages have risen roughly in
line with productivity.
“It would indeed be ironic if
the great, and admirable, dream
of an economy of full employ-
ment with stable prices should
founder on this rock of pro-
ductivity in services and
distribution.”
Worsthorne, noting that
millions of American fafnilies
have been uprooted and set down
in new and better surroundings
in the last five years or so,
comments that “migration out
of the slums and tenements into
the new middle-class housing-
estates has brought with it quite
as many problems of adjustment
as followed the transcontinental
migrations of the last century.
“The strain involved when
men are swept from their tradi-
tional surroundings and
associations and have new
habits thrust upon them is
UO less formidable when the
cause of the upheaval is
prosperity rather than depres-
sion, its direction upward in the
social scale rather than down-
ward ; and the frontier to be
crossed, that of respectability,
dividing slurps from suburbs,
rather than the Rocky Moun-
tains.
“The escape from the factory-
bench into the accounting-
department, the change from
dungarees into a white collar,
which prosperity has made
possible for so many in the last
few years, has produced the same
loss of community and in-
security of status for the new
American middle-class as the
flight from the land to the cities
did for the English urban
proletariat in the 19th century.
“New wealth always creates
social problems in any society.
But in America, as Mr. David
Riesman has recently pointed
out, the difficulties are particu-
larly acute. The absence of an
aristocracy means that there is
no safe harbor into which the
millionaire can buy his way. He
cannot settle-down on the land
or buy a baronetcy (and thereby
sanctify his millions with the
blessing of assured social status).
Even the relative satisfaction that
used to be available to the
American millionaire of buying
himself into the plutocracy is
now denied him. Conspicuous
consumption is no longer thought
to be smart when a vast segment
of the population can live in
a comparable style, at infinitely
lower cost.
“What is happening in America
is that wealth, because it is now
so general, is losing its potency
as a measure of social prestige.
In most societies this would not
be of crucial importance. In
the .United States, however,
Amsterdam “De Volkskrant”
“ HUNGARY’S DOMESTIC AFFAIRS ARE PURELY
A MATTER FOR THE HUNGARIAN GOVERNMENT”
where no other accepted yard-
stick yet exists, this is a revolu-
tionary development.”
Nato
General Norstad’s succession
to the command of Nato upon
the retirement of General
Gruenther—“he inherits armed
forces as .smooth-running, and
an alliance as united as his pre-
decessor could make them, and
that is saying a good deal”
(“Manchester Guardian*’) —was
the occasion for, among other
things, a speech by British
Opposition Leader Gaitskell on
many of the problems'Confront-
ing the Atlantic alliance.
Touching on one of his points
—the need for a common foreign
policy by member-countries —
Edinburgh “Scotsman” concedes
that “that is certainly highly
desirable”:
“But regard to the various
odds and ends that would require
to be fitted in rather suggests
that this would be difficult to
achieve in practice. Would, for
instance, the French agree to
(VICKY, IN LONDON “NEW STATESMAN ”)
submit their Algerian policy to
Nato?
“We do not appear to have
quite reached the stage at which
countries are prepared to
surrender their sovereignty in
the sphere, of foreign affairs.
The primary requirement seems
to be to secure a consistent
foreign policy on the part of
individual members which will
not be affected by changes in
Government.”
Admitting disunity within
Nato ranks, London “Daily
Telegraph” adds, however, that
“it is only fair to make two
points”:
“First, that it was from Nato
that came General Gruenther’s
brave reply to Marshal Bul-
ganin’s threat to use guided-
missiles against Western Europe.
Without this steadying influence
there would have been wide-
spread defeatism, possibly panic,,
during these days of Soviet
truculence and American fence-
fitting.
“Secondly, it has been shown
in the most vivid fashion how
interdependent are Western
Europe and the Middle East.
Let us be frank: without the
secure base of Nato Britain and
France would not have dared act
alone in the Middle East; and
without the action Nato might
have sat helplessly by while
Arabs and Communist volun-
teers fought Israel under protec-
tion of a Soviet veto on our
intervention.”
Another critic —John Eppstein,
in London “Time and Tide” —
notes the Atlantic alliance as
‘one of the major casualties of
the Middle East crisis”:
“The importance to Nato of
the development of Soviet policy
«in the Middle East, even in the
narrowest military sense, is that,
having been blocked on the
Central European front, as
General Gruenther, the retiring
Supreme Commander, pointed
out, the enemy is now busily
‘going round the flank.’
“The habitual excuse of the
Governments and of a certain
number of the bureaucrats of the
Palais de Chaillot for the com-
plete failure of the North
Atlantic Council to face up to
this obvious threat is that it is
concerned only with the defence
of the ‘Nato area.’ .
“Of course it is; but why
assume that your enemy is going
to be fool enough to make no
attack except a frontal attack?
There are no Queensberry rules
for Mr. Khrushchev ; and the
whole problem of the Atlantic
alliance is that it is faced not
with a localised but with a
global antagonist.
“The Communists operate
from any angle, at any convenient
point and at every level; in the
present phase the well-known
Leninist tactic of exploiting
‘nationalist liberation move-
ments’ against the ‘imperialists’
is the order of the day.
“Is it really possible to main-
tain that the prospect of Soviet
domination in Egypt and the
Arab lands, which the abortive
Anglo-Fren9h adventure high-
lighted, is not, even in the
narrowest strategic sense, a
menace to defence of the
Nato area’?”
Israel
Commenting on “present
indications,” the Tel Aviv
correspondent of London
“Economist” notes that “the
Israelis propose to lay as much
blame as possible for the danger
to world peace at Britain’s
and, to a lesser extent, at
France’s door; they them-
selves take the position that
their action was self-defence—a
position that many statesmen,
including the Vatican, have con-
ceded. Indeed, they argue that
the Anglo-French ‘failure’ on
the canal has robbed them of a
large part of the fruits of their
victory, including the intended
heavy blow at Colonel Nasser’s
prestige, which would have been
damaged more severely by defeat
at the hands of Israel alone than
by defeat at the hands of the
powerful Western nations.
“It is, therefore, firmly denied
that there was any collaboration
with Britain and France. Their
intervention, it is said, was
unexpected, if only because the
Israelis did not think that Sir
Anthony Eden was up to it. In
any case, they now assert, it was
unasked, unwanted, and
unnecessary; the timing and
tactics of the Anglo-French
intervention made it worse. It
is even denied that the Anglo-
French bombing of the Egyptian
Air Force significantly reduced
the danger of air-attack on Tel
Aviv ; the possibility of this had
been taken into account, and
4000 tanks in East Germany
alone and by placing Hungary
once more under direct Moscow
rule, every written and unwritten
understanding which existed
between East and West has been
torn up by the Kremlin.”
In the Air
London ‘.‘Daily Telegraph”
comment on the U.S. guided-
missile which went-bush after
being launched from the Patrick
Air Force Base at Florida:
“Since no complaints have yet
been received, we may hope that
the thing has plunged tactfully
into the jungles of British Guiana
or Brazil. There, deep in the
earth, it may be lost for ever—
£4oo,ooo worth of buried-
treasure.
“All that the Pentagon could
add was: ‘We always try to get
them back.’ The search may
well be wide and prolonged and
cannot be conducted with the
nonchalance of Longfellow, who
sang:
I shot an arrow in the air.
It fell to earth, I know not where.
“The Florida missile is said
to have weighed seven tons and
to have been capable of a speed
of 600 m.p.h., with a range of
3000 miles.
“Most of the missiles fired
from Florida travel south-east
into the Atlantic. Permission has
been obtained from the British
Government for them to pass
over the British West Indies.
This, of course, adds a discon-
certing hazard to rest-cures
sought by distinguished states-
men in Jamaica.
“For every reason, it will be
reassuring if the United States
authorities manage to trace their
valuable truant, and to establish
the reasons for its vagrancy.
Whether they find that the fault
is in the stars or in themselves,
the incident will only confirm the
layman in his gloomy distrust
of all that is going on over his
head.”
Major-General Sir Edward
Spears: “For France the
destruction <sf Egypt’s power
offered the only chance of
holding North Africa. Unlike
us [Britain], she had lost her
influence in the Middle East and
cares little about our interests
there. Indeed, there are those in
Paris and elsewhere who would
not be sorry to see us lose our
influence too.”


SQUARE-EGGERS
By JACK LUSBY
I SEE that scientists have come
up with a workable notion
for supplying housewives
with square eggs.
This sort of thing sets my
thinning hackles on end. Why
don’t they let well alone? If
they keep prodding Nature
around like this she’ll turn on
’em and scratch their eyes out.
And serve ’em right!
Back when beer was fourpence
I decided that interfering with
Nature pays-off less than pin-
point-punting. Where Nature’s
concerned anything but laissez-
faire is lunacy.
My wife once indulged in a
lunatic lapse from this foolproof
philosophy with dire and dis-
tressing results. Throughout a
long, dry Queensland winter she
mucked about with the scheme
of things. Fresh from the south,
she got to brooding on the fact
that no rain was soaking our
backyard, lawn and its fringe of
indigenous flora.
“Look,” I told her. “It
doesn’t rain here in winter. In
summer it comes down solid and
more than looks after the
vegetation! ”
“Nonsense! Everything’ll be
dead by then! There’s a hose
under the house’ 1
All winter, reluctant and
under pressure, I sloshed streams
of water on grass, pawpaws,
weeds, bougainvillea, sundry
hibernating vines and the com-
plex choko-system that held the
fence up. I got corns from
holding the hose, footrot from
the drip and a growing sense
of impending doom.
Beneath the sodden surface
lurkpd . volcanic dynamite —-
volatile soil normally safe in the
dry winter but explosive in the
wet when it spears vegetation
sunwards at rocket-speed and
overnight turns your backyard
into a rain-forest.
And here I was keeping the
monster awake; readying the
rabid chlorophillea fojf a jet-
propelled jump at the first jab of
summer! Sometimes I imagined
the soil heaved and kicked under
me as some burgeoning thing
battled down there for elbow-
room. V .
When I was away at work my
wife ranged the estate with hose
at full blast, leaving no corner
unsodden —a demon in her
determination to provide year-
round monsoon conditions in
our backyard.
Came the rains and, with them,
a hastily mounted five-gallon
keg and a frantic call to friends
to fight the menace. We started
in with brush-hooks, flaying the
grass which, in its first* rush,
leached kunai-height. There was
a close shave when a foraging
bougainvillea tentacle reached
out and tried to boa-constrict
one unwary fellow. A billy of
Fourex restored him to the
fray.
Overburdened pawpaw - trees
dropped football-sized fruit,
around us, and one bloke was
keeping the strawberries back
with a stockwhip.
Over all spread a writhing
tangle of fierce vines, feelers
fighting like snakes for a grip
on anything growing or standing.
I learned never, to stand still for
more than a minute or so.
After two days my conscript
jungle-fighters tossed it in.
Prickly-pear and lawyer-vines
had made their appearance. Oqr
once-exuberant bantams were
now cow'ed to an occasional
muted cackle, but even this was
a big help finding them at
feeding-time. The vines went up
the house-stumps and, attracted
by the smell of cooking, made
their way into the kitchen. I
had to do tporning rounds with a
machete hacking-off the more
enterprising.
One intruder I remember had
large white flowers which opened
at night and closed in daylight.
I got some satisfaction from
lighting a match within sight of
one or other of these blooms at
night and making it close-up
shop. Only nuisance-value stuff,
but it must have kept that
particular plant on tenterhooks.
The choko reached into our
bedroom via an open window
one night and was fumbling
around with the mosquito-net
when I awoke and went for it
with a cane-knife.
About this time the baker took
to leaving the bread in a frangi-
pani fork on the outer fringe of
things and other tradesmen
followed suit.
Visitors had- to be guided to
the front steps and safety of the
veranda and if female they
anxiously searched their stock-
ings for wear and tear.
The lush equatorial jungle
we’d conjured up attracted
mossies from as far away as
Merauke, and a fine husky bunch
they were! They’d kamikaze the
net with enough force to tear
holes in it, then give us the
works through sheets and all. My
wife yelped all night like a
tethered pup. All this, and
constantly having to pick rhino-
ceros-beetles out of the soup
was having a visible effect on
her.
Yes! All this and the fact that
non-hosing neighbors weren’t
having anything like our stack of
trouble made my wife mighty
thoughtful. Next winter she let
the Queensland weather alone,
thankful that she had narrowly
avoided becoming a square-
egger.
T\ TRIED to square-egg a car
one night during the self-same
Queensland rains, and learned
that even mechanical things have
a nice sense of sane behavior.
Revs up and hot, the little
roadster could go like a welshing
bookie, but she had a certain
intelligence and a natural
reluctance to start work.
That morning I’d parked at
the bottom of downhill city
street facing the fiver. It rained
solidly all day and by evening
you needed gills to get about
in any kind of comfort.
Work finished, I offered Bill
a lift home. We sloshed through
the spate and found the car, rain
drumming on the canvas hood
and hammering the bonnet.
Burrurrurr-r-r No start.
Burrurrurrurr-r-r
“Sure someone hasn’t hijacked
the engine?”
No comment. We got out,
pushed her backwards up the
street and tried to shock her into
action as she rolled toward the
river again. Half-a-dozen times.
“Look,” Bill said, slumped
wearily in his corner. “She’s so
dead the police’ll be along to
have you shift the smell. Let’s
go home!”
“Don’t wring your hat in the
car,” I said. “Wait till we get
out in the rain again!”.
Tempers were wearing and the
all-night garage was half-a-mile
up the hill.
At the garage, Karl said “0.K.,
we’ll tow her here, dry her
out and get her started. Will
your friend mind the garage?”
Back at the battlefield Karl
and I got out of the tow-truck.
“We’ll push her round to
face uphill before we tie on to
her, 4 ’ Karl said. We did that.
“I’ll have one more crack
at her,” I said. “You know —
different angle.”
One touch and the four-pot
xylophone under the bonnet gave
a loud hooray and hallelujah and
settled down to go-music in
march-time.
“Different angle me foot!”
said Karl. “You wouldn’t
start running yourself headed
straight for the river. You
couldn’t get a horse to start,
pointing that way. It’d be
unnatural! ”
He gave the car an under-
standing slap on her happily
vibrating rump and got back in
the tow-truck. I thought, Karl
shouldn’t live with cars. He’s
nuts. Looking back now I know
better.
T REMEMBER a woman who
had a crack at square-egging
a far-west N. S. Wales town that
was the color of the red dust.
The old weatherboard build-
ings, whatever their original
warpaint, had long settled for
the dun patina of the desert.
Nobody in living memory had
tried to kick Nature around in
this town. It had been let well
alone.
Red dust lay thick in the
main street and thick on the
faces of the fellahin. The dog-
poisoners and other itinerants
squatting under the pepper-trees
brushed red dust from their
whiskers. If you had occasion to
pa,t a man on the back you raised
a cloud of it. It colored washing
on the clotheslines and water in
the tanks.
When the wind blew, a dull
redness flared in the sky and
even the sun toned down to a
simmering, subservient red. Nary
a false note. Nothing to jolt the
senses or startle the eye. The
town was natural color from
backside to breakfast. Natural as
a goanna’s back.
That was Until Joe Suleau’s
wife, after months of needling
him, had him paint their house.
She was from the City, and
determined to improve her
surroundings. A bright new-
painted home would set the seal
on things.
Joe was a good bloke the
town baker —and he raised his
big red arms in despair and
gave in.
The paint arrived and he
lathered it on swiftly and
savagely and pretty soon the job
was finished. As a job of paint-
ing it was pretty good. The
house was a bright Reckitt’s-blue.
In the quiet unbroken redness
all around it looked fluorescent.
It remained on the retina for
hours, then faded in diminish-
ing spots of hot electric blue.
Until you saw it again.
Deadbeats forsook pub
veranda-posts to on the
Suleaus’ front fence and goggle.
Shocked horsemen got a firm
knee-grip and eased their-mounts
gingerly past, crabwise.
Joe Suleau went about with
a blush that didn’t come from
the heat of his oven. The paint-
ing job became known as
Suleau’s Blue, an embarrassing
bit of word-play.
Joe’s wife had to wait many
mortifying months before the
ravages of red dust restored her
respectability. Then she let
Nature go its own sweet way.
T>Y far the greatest square-
** eggers of all time were the
Mayas. In ancient Yucatan,
possibly before the Egyptians
amounted to much, they had
everything to make life pleasant
—generous climate, maize for a
staple, tropical fruits, and a
handy knowledge of town-
planning, architecture and stone-
masonry. It was enough to know
the sun would turn-up m the
morning* and the seasons on
schedule.
But the very infallibility of
solar and lunar schedules began
to worry these aboriginal' Yanks
of Yucatan, and they started
poking about at the works.
The Mayas were gone coons
immediately they'&began staring
at stars and nutting-out a
calendar and carving their
findings in stone.
Obsessed with celestial revela-
tion they took to hieroglyphing
birth-dates on new buildings.
From there, instead of carving
a date to mark a building they
got to making a building to mark
a date. A great deck of stone
to mark one year, a smaller deck
on top for the next year, and
so on until after five, 10 or 20
years they reached the apex of
a pyramid and had to scuttle
round and start another before
time got ahead of them.
Men dumped in dungeons have
kept sane scratching the days on
a wall. The Mayas went mad
marking off time with pyramids.
And who wouldn’t?
Their stone-block pyramids
rise up to a hundred-odd feet
above the surrounding jungle.
Flayed on to frenzied effort \>y
theiJ - Frankenstein calendar, the
Mayas had to keep on making
’em and covering ’em with carv-
ings conveying dates and
calculations. They even got
round to working out long-term
star-cycles and jotting them
down the hard way.
Give the Yucatan boys their
due —they sacrificed themselves
producing what is still the
world’s most accurate calendar,
and for many hundreds of years
exhausted themselves in abject
slavery to the thing. Between
sowing and the ever-decreasing
harvests farmlands were
abandoned while all hands
hauled rock to keep pyramidi-
cally abreast of time. Countless
thousands of slave-ants dragged
ten-ton square-eggs to feed the
tyrant.
Agriculture slumped as the
rockeries grew. When mis-
treated and exhausted soil would
no longer support them these
calendar-coolies had to up-
anchor, abandon everything
they’d built, travel en masse to
new territory and start all over.
Eventually the fantastic and
fanatic effort proved too much
and the Mayas returned to dust
in the vast shadows of their
carved chronology.
All of which may not
altogether clinch the aesthetic
advantages of oval eggs. But the
kind of concentrated scientific
endeavor which eventually lays
a square egg is blood-brother to
the blinkered, mentality that
made pyramids blood-brother
to the dead-end dexterity of the
mad Mayas of Yucatan.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Want*
To buy copy of Macleod of the
Bulletin,” by Mrs. William Macleod.
—6441.
Words of old bush poem in which a
dying girl expresses a wish for a
bunch of flowers, which is brought
to her by a jackeroo with ,Here are
the words you craved for. —644/.^
To buy copy of Roderic Quinn s
Poems. —6437.
Words of the verse “The Old
Veranda,” by Will Ogilvie.— 6439.
To buy Rafael Sabatini’s Cesare
Borgia and Historical Nights
Entertainment. —6443.
To buy copies of the following
The Postman, by Roger Martin Du
Gard; The Malediction, by Jean
Giono; Apes, Angels and Victorians,
by William Irvine; The Curve and
the Tusk, by Stuart Cloete; The
Four Lives of Mundy Tolliver, by Ben
Lucien Burman; The Goat Boy, by
Augusta Walter; and Atlantic
Monthly” containing short story by
Pamela Frankeau about a young
girl, smug neighbors, and an old
lady who drinks and dies in a hotel
(probably appeared some time in
1954).—6444.
Information Supplied
“Shell Form” comes good: Add to
the information supplied to G.K. (B.
28/11/’56), re William Archer, the
fact that he has a brother —Frank —
18 years younger than himself, who
was born in Queensland and later
went to England. A classics M.A.
(Cantab.), keen musician and good
viola-player. Still hale-and-hearty at
82, he finds time to get occasional
messages to old pupils through the
columns of the school-magazine.
Two things I remember of him.
Speaking at an impromptu debate in
support of the contention that “In
the opinion of this House, the world
is not round,” he averred that he
could speak from practical experi-
ence of a voyage from Australia to
England that the world was not
round; it was merely going round
—and round, and round! He was
apparently a bad sailor. My second
and more cheerful recollection of old
"F.A.” is of trips to the Halle
concerts at the Free Trade Hall in
Manchester, to which he took parties
of we 10-to-14-year-olds, “In the
sincere hope that although it may
not be within my gift to inculcate a
love of the classics into your dunder-
heads, at least I may inculcate a love
of decent music,” He was right.
I’ve forgotten my “Anna virumque
cano,” but I haven’t forgotten
Sapellnikoff, Norman Allin, Galli-
Curci, Clara Butt and Paderewski.
Information Sought
A method of cleaning or rejuvenat-
ing a Panama hat that has become
dirty or darker ?
If the straw is undamaged, a very
good result can be obtained; but if
the surface of the straw has in places
become raised or removed —allowing
dirt to penetrate the tissues of the
straw —it is not easy to make a good,
clean job. Scrub with a nailbrush
in hot water containing a little
ammonia; use Castile or any other
good white soap. Rinse several times
in clean water; the last rinsing-water
should contain a little glycerine, to
counteract stiffness. Press-out surplus
water with a Turkish towel, and stand
the hat on the towel to dry—in a>
sunny, windy place. Lining and all
bands should be wished separately, as
they may dye the straw.
* * * *
What do the latest available census
figures in Australia show on (1)
population-density and (2) placement
of population ?
Following (in this order), area in
squire miles, population and density
(persons per square mile): N.S.W. —
309,433; 3,423,529; 11.04. Vic-
-87,884; 2,452,341; 27.81. Qld.—
670,500; 1,318,259; 1.96. S.A.—
380,070; 797,094; 2.09. W.A.—
975,920; 639,771; 0.65. Ta 5.—26,215;
308,752; 11.75. N.T. 523,620;
16,469; .0.03. A.C.T.—939; 30,315 ;
32.28. Figures for Australia at the
same period (1954 census) were:
2,974,581; 8,986,530; 3.01. (2) Again
1954 census figures—for capital city
(complete metropolitan area), other
cities and tosVns (all separately incor-
porated cities and towns, all other
towns with a population of 1000 or
more —750 for Tasmania) and rural
(the remainder of each State and
territory). N.5.W.—1,863,161 (54.4
p.c.); 965,387 (28.2); 594,981 (17.4).
Vic—1,524,111 (62.1); 470,063 (19.2);
458,167 (18.7). Q1d—502,320 (38.1);
460,080 (34.9); 355,859 (27.0). S.A.
—483,508 (60.7); 110,107 (13.8);
203,479 (25.5). W.A. 348,647
(54.5); 105,418 (16.5); 185,706
(29.0). Tas. —95,206 (30.8); 108,128
(35.0); 105,418 (34.2). Incorporating
Darwin among “other cities and
towns,” the N.T. had 10,856 (65.9
p.c.) in that category and 5,613 (34.1)
rural. The A.C.T. had a population
of 28,277 (93.3) in Canberra and
2038 (6.7) rural. Australian figures,
therefore, were: 4,845,230 (53.9);
2,230,039 (24.8); 1,911,261 (21.3).
* * * *
Why is it the “Dominion ” of New
Zealand, Canada, etc., but the
“Commonwealth” of Australia ?
It appears to be mainly a matter
of choice of name when the'Act con-
ferring self-government on a colony
is first passed. For instance, the
British North America Act (1867)
united the provinces of Upper and
Lower Canada, Nova Scotia and New
Brunswick under the title of The
Dominion of Canada (with provision
for other provinces to join later). On
Sept. 26, 1907, New Zealand received
the official designation of The
Dominion of New Zealand. South
Africa, on the other hand, is officially
the Union of South Africa (under the
South Africa Act 1909), while India,
by the Indian Independence Act 1947,
is The Dominion of India or, more
usually, and pointing its remarkable
position both inside and outside the
British Commonwealth, The Republic
.of India. (Pakistan is The Dominion
of Pakistan, and Ceylon is also
Dominion.) It is believed that it was
Henry Parkes (at the first Australasian
Federal Convention, in Sydney in
1891) who first suggested the name
Commonwealth for Australia. It was
then rejected, but was taken-up by
Deakin, and later by Barton, who
said that “Commonwealth is the
grandest and most stately name by
which a great association of self-
governing people can be character-
ised”; so that when the 1897-98
Federal Convention was called
together, the name had so much taken
possession of the popular mind that
none other would do (Scott’s A Short
History of Australia). Accordingly,
Australia, by the Act of the Imperial
Parliament dated July 9, 1900, was
constituted The Commonwealth ol
Australia. (Though any other name is
now unthinkable, confusion dogs at
times arise through the British
Empire’s having developed into the
Britisfi Commonwealth .)
Brief Answers
J.M.P.: Angus and Robertson
advise that they have available
Official Canasta Laws, compiled by
National Canasta Laws Commissions
of the U.S.A. and the Regency Club;
published by Faber and Faber; price,
3s. 4d H.W.J.G.: The latest
estimated population (June 30, 1956)
for Greater Wollongong municipality
is 101,420... .J.C.T.: In 1948
MacArthur sought Republican nomina-
tion • in* 1952 he refused and backed
Taft D.M.: Peter Jensen, Picture
Restorer, 29 Parramatta-road, Haber-
field, N.S.W W.J.T.: The artist
who sometimes drew caricatures tor
The Bulletin signed “Pas’ was
Donald MacDonald... .R.M.H.:
Gresley Lukin died in 1916. His
death was noted in The Bulletin ot
September 21, 1916... .Inquirer (Tas-
mania): (1) See the ‘ Land 5 j Page
article “Demand for Vets (B.
26/12/’s6). (2) It is first of al
necessary, of course, to fulfil
matriculation requirements, which at
Sydney University are: five L.C.
passes, one (a) English and the other
four from at least two of the follow-
ing groups —(6) Modern History,
Ancient History, Economics; (c)
Latin Greek, French, German, Italian,
Hebrew, Chinese, Japanese, Russian,
Dutch; (d) Mathematics I,
Mathematics 11, General Mathematics,
Applied Mathematics, Theory and
Practice of Music; (e) Physics,
Chemistry, Geology, Geography,
Physics - and - Chemistry, Botany,
Zoology, Biology, Physiology*, Agri-
culture. (From 1959 onwards
matriculation-requirements will be.
five subjects, including English, a
major foreign language—Latin, Greek,
French, German, Italian, Hebrew
and mathematics or science; or five
subjects, including English and
mathematics and history or an
approved foreign language other than
those listed.) (3) Fees for the
veterinary-science course are: first
veftr, £lO5 155.; second year,
£lO2 155.; third year, £lO2 155.;
fourth year, £lO2 155.; fifth year,
£4l 15s. The total cost of graduation,
exclusive of extra-mural work, is
£470. Books and instruments run-
out at about £3O a year. Residence at
the University Farm (during certain
vacations between first year and
second year, and in fifth year) costs,
at present, £3 17s. 6d. a week.
CONVERSATION-PIECE
They came on Christmas Day —
Vera and Fred
And all the kids . . . Oh, yes, I know I
said
After last year, when Bert put on that
blue,
That was the last —but then, what can
you do? -
I love to see the children, but young
Neville
Gets so excited. He’s a little devil
The way he yells at Margaret and Don.
My God! Shirl, by the time they all had
gone
l was all in! You know the way that
June’s ‘ %
Ankles sWell up — well, mine were like
balloons!
I’ve never been so tired! And as l said
To Bert, thank Heaven for a nice soft
, bed . ... !
“....You know that I’m no scandal-
monger, Shirl,
But, really! Did you hear of Millie’s
gi r l ?
Last night ... yes .. . only married last
July ...
And Mil’s so snooty — that’s one, , in her
eye !
She hasn’t much to be stuck-up about.
Either her old man’s just an
out-and-out;
All he thinks of is booze and getting a
bet set . . .
Well, I paid eight-and-sixpence for a
wet-set!
I nearly died! Isn’t it awful, Shirley,
To think my brother’s hair’s naturally
curly.
It’s wasted on a man, I always say;
Most of them hate it like that,
anyway ....
“.,. -.You know that polished-cotton that
I bought ?
I’m making that up, Shirl, but I've been
caught.
Four-and-an-eighth was all. of it they
had ;
I find I’m short. Wouldn’t it make you
mad ?
And then Bert, when he hears me going
crook,
Asked why I didn’t buy one off the
hook !
It struck me then I’m nothing but a
bunny,
Worrying myself sick, just to save him
money !
We’re not thought any more of, in the
end,
Than these wives who extravagantly
spend . . .
Bert’s always been so selfish, though,
and near ...
What, you must go . . . ? All right,
then . . . Good-bye, dear.”
“Terribly sorry I’m so late, but, Jill,
Shirl rang, just as I’m leaving. She’s a
dill!
I’m nearly frantic, trying to get away,
But you know Shirl—she’d just talk on
all day;
And all about herself, how tired she feels,
Her family troubles, little things like
meals,
And you can’t get a word in, so I said
I’d have to go —/ almost cut-off dead.
I just felt that I’d had more than enough,
l can’t be worried if she gets the huff.”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(23/12/'56)
Queensland should experience heavy rams on the
coastal areas and in the Peninsula and Gulf country during
January, with flooding possible from Rockhampton north-
wards and inland to Clermont. The western division patchy,
and poor in the south-west and southern-border areas.
The coast and tablelands of N.S.W. should receive good
rains during January, and heavy falls may occur on the rar
North Coast.- However, rainfall is likely to be patchy and
below normal in the western division.
Victoria should receive good rains, above average,
during January, though Gippsland is likely to have only
light to moderate rain. Heaviest falls should occur in the
central division and north-east.
In S.A. the agricultural areas should receive goo
rains during January, but light in the interior and on the
west doast. . hot and dry month in W.A., apart
from moderate rain in the West Kimberleys and in a section
of the south-west.
LENNOX WALKER.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submUtea,
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS stiouia
be addressed to the Editor , they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
J. 8.: Oops, they all fe11....
V.G.W.: You must have kicked it
in the wrong place... .8.M.: Ail
poems about the aborigines are the
same poem... .1.P.: Liked the ware-
house setting, but the story
mouldered... .S.Y.R.: Maybe
women’s magazine; too bloodthirsty
for us... .F.S.: There are surely
magazines that cater for the Austral-
American Boilmg-the-hillbillies
5ch001....E.A.G.: Not quite....
VP : She didn’t make much sense
out of the escaped loony, and if she
had it still wouldn’t have interested
us H.C.: Not bad, but its the
kind of humor that would interest
people who know you rather than
us who do not.—J.M.: What a
situation to put that poor dear old
man in!.... 8.M.: Prattle ...
D. : Hoity-toity S.L.: That s
not a short story; it’s a long com-
plaint. .. .A.F.8.: Nope... -T.P.M.:
Will we never see the last of the
last rays of the setting' sun”?....
J.S.: It’s all right to dress an old
story up in Maori, but only tor a,
private fancy-dress party....M.W.:
You can’t make people misunderstand
each other as deliberately as that, not
with all the readers looking-0n....
J.O’S.: Slight....W.A.L.: _ Neither.
....T.D’A.-E.: Try again in about
i 6 years’ time 8.C.: And we
wished the same to you:—
“Though you scorn my lovely stories,
Curse all brave attempts at rhyme,
Snarl at precious gems of wisdom,
Mailed to you from time to time.
Still I haTbor no resentment,
And a wish is penned sincere,
To the brainy blokes down Geoige-street,
Happy Christmas, Glad New Year.”
R.F.: Too much straining after
effect. Study simplicity of statement
and the effect will take care of itself.
T.B.: Barred by the fact that it
already has appeared in print....
A.W.C.: One distinction you can
claim; you are one of the untidiest
writers in the Southern Hemisphere.
Not for William Shakspeare would
The Bulletin wrestle with evil-
looking pencilled matter such as
yours, scrawled on scraps of waste-
paper and then used, apparently, to
polish your shoes... .L.N.: That
story is older than the Pyramids
E. : Energetic, but reckless of
statement and faulty of grammar.
M.B.: Thanks for your kind
instructions as to how to run The
Bulletin. Sorry to say your verses
are terrible K.J.: You concede to
us “only the right to insert this poem
in one issue and without alterations.”
Comfort yourself —it won’t be
inserted in any issue J.C.W.:
We admire your perseverance, but
you don’t seem to be able to hit the
mark with verse.... C.D.: “I know
my pen is feeble and my muse is weak
and wan'.” That is the best line in
it and the truest W.H.D.:
Poem miles below standard, and
cost us 7d. owing to your undue
economy with stamps... .R.P.: Style
too tedious and repetitive G.N.:
The bellbird has been done to death
as a verse-subject. Try the dinner-
bell for a change E.E.: In stating
you shot a rabbit with a rifle, you
employ enough words to describe the
death by slow poison of a rhinoceros.
B.T.R.: Henry Lawson wrote
that story long ago and wrote it miles
better than you do M.V.S.: You
grievously misuse the English
language D.H.: “The Bride”
doesn’t seem to arrive anywhere in
particular C.C.R.: The aspirations
are right up in the clouds, but the
verse finished up right down in the
basket S.C.: Song about a
deceased bigamist thrown out
F. : The man who sends a triolet
in one envelope, and sends in a
second envelope a letter to say that
the clipping is on its way in the
first envelope, possesses a capacity
for work which fills us with envy.
....J.H.: The prentice-hand is too
much in evidence P.M.: Just a
shade above mediocrity... .N.E.F.:
Doesn’t call for any
remarks” though it might have been
a lot better L.H.: Your tragedy
lands you in unintentional comedy.
P.J.S.: Alas, we can’t “lick it
into shape.” It’s too dry
J.M.S.: “Bridle Path” a shade too
conventional. The dusk, the bush-
track, the old horse and the rider
who thinks sadly of one who is
no more —they are old properties.
....W.U.A.: You don’t throw any
new light on that weary old subject.
T.H.A.: Very prim and trim, but
perfectly empty of inspiration....
G. Yet another “Awake, Aus-
tralia!” poem of exceeding badness.
N.C.: Re that bush girl, take
this paper’s tip and marry her
H. Grand old yarn about
rehearsing actor and actress, who are
mistaken for murderer and murderess
respectively, received, and duly fired
into the haven of refuge reserved for
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication*
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
this particular yam G.F.C.: The
alleged “dialect” spoiled the thin
chance the story had F.H.R.:
Rather tired-of tender eyes of brown.
There are so • many of them about.
D.M.C.: The passion is artificial
and unconvincing, the style is tawdry
and pretentious, and the syntax is
slovenly P.C.: Sordid narration of
what happened to a female who sold
all her husband’s bantams to buy
beer was firmly rejected H.W.T. :
Almost felt inclined to print it as a
shocking example....F.M.: Can t
sympathise much with your bushman,
who was killed by a falling tree.
Consider the man’s hopeless
inertness:
As the tree came down, and to him drew
near,
When he saw ’twas too late to run ;
He did not tremble or quake with fear
But murmured, “God’s will be done.’
Slickness rather than sanctity should
be the motto of a tree-feller in a
crisis like the above.


As a control measure
all sheep affected by
mycotic dermatitis or
“lumpy wool” should
be dipped in a 2 lbs.
to 100 gallon solution
of bluestone, says a
prominent veterinary
authority. This disease
is a fungus infection
causing the wool to
form lumps and even-
tually fall off. The
dip will slightly stain
the sheep but there
will be no damage to
fleeces from next
shearing. As a pre-
cautionary measure
against shock and set-
back lambs should be
marked and tailed by
Elastrator Rubber
Rings a method
which also reduces the
risk of fly-strike.
urs
PROOF
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
1
31
m mm
.
Hi
mm
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pfy. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S
" WIRE, WIRE N E TYING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
CATTLE FROM THE NORTH
WHEN the Duracks drove
* ’ their cattle from Queens-
land to the Kimberleys they took
2| years on the job, and had to
kill the calves born on the trip ;
and when they’d established
themselves on their stations they
found it was almost as bi§ a
job getting their cattle out again.
The north of W.A. has always
been a pretty remote region, and
stock from there has usually
faced a long droving-trip, and
then a long sea-voyage that
didn’t leave the cattle any too
fat when landed. On top of that,
north of the 20th degree is
regarded as pleuro.-country, and
cattle from those districts had
to be slaughtered on arrival in
agricultural areas in the south
to prevent infection of southern
herds.
That’s been pretty well the
pattern of marketing cattle from
the north. There were ..some
stations that managed to beat
the pleuro. ban —Billiluna, in the
south Kimberleys, send their
stock over the 900-mile Canning
stock-route to Wiluna and thence
by train, and Anna Plains, near
the Eighty-mile Beach, have sent
theirs overland to the railhead
at Meekatharra —but, generally
speaking, the north has been
regarded as a source of beef
rather than store-cattle.
Over the last few years there’s
been a change, brought about
largely by the use of road-trains
to transport cattle from the
stations around the big beach.
There are a few stations there,
notably Anna Plains, which are
separated from the pleuro.-
country by a buffer of sheep-
stations that gives them
immunity and a clean bill-of-
health; they’re in fine cattle-
country and stock from there
has a good reputation in the
south ; and the 700-mile trip in
road-trains doesn’t take off too
much condition.
There's still a 500-mile train
trip to Perth markets, but the
whole journey doesn’t take as
long as a droving-trip to a
northern port. There’s only been
one snag. Almost always the
stock has been kept on the
stations until fully-grown.
That may be altered soon.
Lately Anna Plains changed
hands, and the new owner, a
man from Alice Springs, is think-
ing of moving young stock off
the station regularly, with the
idea of fattening in the south.
And that’s about as good an
example as you’ll get of the way
the big State is closing-in. It
hasn’t exactly concertinaed yet,
but it’s shrinking noticeably
when the north and the south
can be regarded as two sections
of the one agricultural area.
Thirty years ago in W.A. a
farmer who held sheep .on his
wheatbelt property while the feed
was good and then shifted them
200 miles to a south-west farm
for fattening was considered a
pretty progressive type. Now
the same thing is happening over
1500 miles.
Gravelsnatcher.
The Mansfield Process
“F.”: Anyone who has
watched the water in a dam
.shrink day by day under a dis-
hearteningly cloudless sky will
have taken more than a casual
interest in reports, published
from time to time, of C.S.I.R.O.
experiments to' check loss by
evaporation.
This writer professes a vivid
interest. Not long back, but
before C.S.I.R.O. got busy on
the problem, he sat on the
cracked red edge of what he had
been told was a “good, safe
dam,” peering down at the
yellow mirror of disappearing
water and cursing the local busy-
body who had given him this
information with such genial
authority, and himself for believ-
ing it.
This was a western N. S. Wales
district, and the difference in
evaporation-rate compared with
the one on which his own
experience was based was
fantastic. The experience, on
varying levels of drama, must
be a favorite Australian night-
mare ; like perishing in the
desert, or being trapped- in a
bushfire.
C.S.I.R.O. Leaflet No. 15,
“Saving Water in Dams,” gives
all the information the average
landowner needs to know about
the Mansfield process, developed
by C.S.I.R.O., which is reckoned
to cut evaporation-losses by one-
quarter or more. One doesn’t
need to have been ruined by
drought to appreciate it.
The process uses beads of an
insoluble chemical called hexa-
decanol, which floats on the
surface and is prevented from
being blown away by the use
of a special raft anchored in the
dam. A very thin, invisible,
film spreads from the beads over
the surface of the water, and
restricts evaporation. The beads
supply additional hexadecanol to
heal the film if it is broken.
The prbcess is recommended
by C.5.1.R.0., at present, only
for areas of water up to two
acres, in which waves are small.
On larger bodies of water, waves
are bigger, and can dissipate the
charge of hexadecanol. As yet
the method has been tested only
on water-surfaces substantially
free from weeds.
Hexadecanol is a white,
waxy solid which floats on water.
It is used for a number of
purposes, and is usually
marketed under the name cetyl-
alcohol. For restricting evapora-
tion, however, the hexadecanol
must conform to the specification
set by C.5.1.R.0. The specifica-
tion is given in the leaflet.
Material manufactured to this
specification is sold with the
certification-mark SI-RO-SEAL.
The thin film of hexadecanol
slowly disappears from the
surface of the water, but is
renewed from the beads stored
in the raft. So it’s important to
keep up the supply in the raft.
In the raft, the beads are kept
in a gauze basket which prevents
them from dispersing but doesn’t
interfere with the formation of
a film. Floats keep the basket
on the surface of the water.
Floats and baskets can take
many forms. Two satisfactory
commercial units "are illustrated
in the C.5.1.R.0. pamphlet.
The gauze basket should
enclose an area of water-surface
of 9 sq.-ft. A charge of 21b. to
2}lb. of the chemical is put in
the basket, and should completely
cover the water-surface enclosed
by the basket. About once a
month more of the stuff should
be added, to keep up the com-
plete layer of beads —quantity
will vary, but will probably be
around ilb. to lib. for each raft.
Basket needn’t be entirely
gauze—the important thing is for
most of the part at water-level to
be gauze. This section —the
“window” —should be at least
3in. high and centred at water-
level. Total length of window
sections should be at least 6ft.
The rest of the basket can be
metal, plastic, or similar material
that will prevent the escape of
the beads.
Gauge should be bronze or
aluminium, and of 14 to 16
meshes per inch. Zincoid fly-
wire was tested, but rusts quickly.
It’s possible that a gauze of light-
resistant plastic will be a satis-
factory substitute for bronze,
but it hasn’t yet been tested.
It’s important to make sure
there is no hole in the gauze ;
otherwise, when a wind blows up
a few waves, the whole charge
will be lost.
One raft illustrated in the
leaflet is made of glass-fibre
reinforced plastic. It has plastic
top and bottom plates and two
of its sides are completed by
two cylindrical float-chambers,
the other two being aluminium-
gauze windows. The other has
a basket with a wooden frame
covered with bronze gauze. Four
plastic cans act as floats.
The top of the basket must
float at least 3in. above the
surface of the water, and the
bottom at least 2in. below. If
the raft sinks low into the water,
even if it is still floating, the
waves will rub the beads against
the top of the basket and they’ll
soon break-up and turn to film.
You can’t rely on the buoy-
ancy of wood, alone. Whatever
treatment had been given,
C.5.1.R.0. found it became
waterlogged and the raft sank
too low, with the abrasive results
noted.
The raft can be kept in the
centre of the dafti by two wires
stretched from the two sides of
the bank —this makes it easy to
pull the raft in for monthly
inspection—or anchored.
A raft should cost around £25,
and may have a useful life of
five years. SI-RO-SEAL hexa-
decanol is expected to cost
between 6s. and 7s. per lb.
direct from manufacturers or
importers—certainly more than
that from local distributors. So
if 81b. of the chemical is used
each year for each acre treated at
a cost of, say, 10s. per lb., and
allowing £5 a year for each raft
depreciation, the cost of treat-
ment per acre will be approxi-
mately £9 per annum, .apart from
labor.
C.5.1.R.0. estimate that dams
treated by this process have,
generally speaking, a reduced
evaporation-rate (as compared
with the evaporation-rates in
various parts of Australia, as
compiled by the Commonwealth
Meteorological Bureau) of at
least 25 per cent. On this basis,
the following table has been
worked out:
Annual Cost Per
Evapora- lOOOgal.
tion Saving Saved
(Feet). (Acre-ft). (Pence).
2 0.5 16
3 0.75 11
4 1.0 8
5 1.25 6.5
6 1.5 5
7 1.75 4.5
8 2.0 4
9 2.25 3.5
10 2.5 3
In other words, the higher the
evaporation-rate, the cheaper it
is to check it; and the more
valuable the water saved.
An interesting point, briefly
mentioned in this publication, is
the fact that seepage-losses are
greater than most people think.
C.5.1.R.0. have measured
seepage-losses in different parts
of Australia, and they work out
at from one-half to three times
the loss by evaporation. And the
rate of seepage changes with
variation of rainfall.
One would like to know more
about , the economics of making
dams relatively seepage-proof—
by, say, a light mixture of
cement with earth, as in the con-
struction of rammed-earth
buildings—in particular areas
where the seepage reaches the
higher figure.
Type of soil, one imagines, is
an important factor. But, assum-
ing one had a high seepage-rate
in dry country, the matter would
seem to be well worth
experiment.
Clean-up Brooders
“Cbck o’ the Walk”: The
incubating and brooding season
has finished in most centres, and
now’s the time to clean-up.
All equipment should be
scrubbed and cleaned, fumigated
and repaired. Repairs now will
save hours of work next season,
and strings of curses.
Similarly, all those improve-
ments and alterations want doing
while they are still fresh in the
mind. Otherwise, the odds are
that they’ll need doing this time
next season. All breakages and
replacement, along with new
equipment, should be ordered
now, so something is ready from
the word “go.”
Tomato Trellises
“Aga”: In Queensland,
particularly in the Redlands
district, growers have been
getting good results from
parallel - wire trellises for
tomatoes. The wastage from
ground-grown crops, and the
high cost of W-string trellising,
prompted the change in the first
place.
Trellising means more plants


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women- .
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
per acre— important m commer-
cial production/on valuable land.
The merits of the two types
of trellises were compared in
trials at the Redlands Experi-
ment Station, and the parallel-
wire trellises had several
advantages. , -
Percentage of fruit harvested
was greater in the first three
picks—where the V-string trellis
is used, plants must be pruned to
two stems, and this delays flower-
ing. Crops on parallel wire don’t
have this setback, so they fruit
early.
Less damage to fruit, and
fewer blemishes, because there is
less movement of the plants in
high wind.
The third advantage applies
particularly to districts where
leaf-shrivelling virus and other
diseases are common. Crops
grown on the parallel-wire
trellises aren’t pruned, so the
risk of carrying the disease from
plant to plant with the pruning-
knife disappears.
Herd-testing Angles
“Agricola”: Can’t say I agree
with “Aerogenes” (B. 12/12/’56)
about the magic in a farmer’s
application of his herd-testing
results: it’s just commonsense
—much the same as a business-
man looking at his account,
seeing that he is barely paying
his way, and taking the appro-
priate measures.
Admitted the results can be
rather spectacular if the herd
is very poor, but if its produc-
tion-figure is knocking around
the average for the district and
State, the job is long and the
progress steady.
Culling can work wonders in
a very poor herd. Cull out the
lowest third of such a herd and
very little decline in returns is
noticed. Replace the duffers with
half the number of hard-workers
and the results are rather
astounding.
The real problem comes up
when these duffers have been
scrapped, or when you come
across a herd where all the cows
are about average. Where are
you going to start culling?
In such cases each individual
farm must be treated as a
separate unit. What could do the
trick on one may fail on another.
You would be in real strife if
you just went ahead and culled.
There’s been a lot of com-
paring of standards of produc-
tion in certain States, and even
between our country and other
You can’t make com-
parisonslike this, either. If you
tried to feed like they do in
England or on the Continent,
you’d be flat broke in next to
no time. Costs of food vary as
much as do the returns to the
farmers.
If a herd is around the average,
and you want to raise production,
sit down and think for a while
before you rush in and start to
cull.
It’s no good bringing good
cows on to the place if they
won’t get a decent feed when
they get there. It may be a wiser
move to improve the feeding
before culling. This can’t be
done in a hurry. If the fodder
position is poor when the seasons
are good, then the position is
grim. Conservation of fodder
for droughts takes time, so even
if you are on the right track, you
won’t make your pile overnight.
Don’t be taken-in by the cry
of maximum production. That
generally means uneconomic
production. If it costs you £5
for that extra fodder, you’ve got
to see more than that in the
bucket to pay your way.
There’s no doubt about the
way to improve production.
Plenty of fodder in good
seasons and bad is the first thing.
Old stuff? I know it is, but
how many of us have got it?
Talk to any factory-manager and
he’ll tell you how supplies fall
after a short dry spell.
Make the most of the feed
we’ve got. That’s the next step.
Controlled grazing of crops and
pastures is the thing. If it’s
possible, the use of improved-
pastures will help. But you’ve got
to be sure they will grow well.
They’re expensive to put down,
and they have to be a success if
they’re to do their bit. Just
because Joe Blow down the road
can grow them doesn’t mean you
can.
“Oh, John, dear, it's just like yesterday .”
If the herd is well fed all.the
year round, a rise in production
must result. Then it’s time to
think about culling. You’ll find
that, even if a cow does milknip
to average, she may “go on
holidays for five months" as
“Aerogenes” suggested. That’s
the one to cull. No cow can do
justice to the job if she’s out on
strike half the time.
The purchase of an expensive
pure-bred bull pan be a trap, too.
Don’t forget the big boy is only
one partner in the game. He
can’t perform miracles in a very
poor herd, and he will be
dropped from the team, on per-
formances, if his offspring are
half-starved.
So don’t rush in and spend
all the spare cash on the most
expensive animal you can find.
The task may be beyond him if
the feed isn’t there and the cows
are a mob of scrubbers, anyhow.
Replacing culls with heifers
bred from the best cows seems
to be the shot, if you want to
improve production cheaply and
without fear of buying a pig
in a poke.
And what’s more important,
keep testing. It’s a waste of time
and money to test for a year or
two and then give the game
away. You have to be on the
ball all the time. Even a well-
bred bull can let you down, and
the only way to keep a check on
things is to keep recording.
Last of all, remember there
must be varying degrees of pro-
ductivity for different farms.
That bloke down on the river
who paid £l2O an acre for his
land has got to get more out of it
than the chap who got his for
£5O. So don’t be broken-
hearted if you can’t keep up
with him. You may go broke if
you try.
Don’t let anyone tell you you
can’t do much about pool
production. You can ; especially,
for a start, if the herd is very
poor. But if it's around
average, there’s a long job, and
you’ll have to do a lot of think-
ing. It really amounts to an
overall check on all phases of
farm activity, and culling may
be only one part of it.
Weak Weaners
“Lakeland”: Recent research
on the causes of ill-thrift in
sheep by Clarke and Filmer, of
Rukura (N.Z.), reported at the
1956 sheep-conference at Massey
College, is interesting and
valuable. The difficulty of raising
weaners in some districts has
become proverbial; and the
problem, to a greater or less
degree, is just about universal.
11l - thrift seems to be
associated with loneliness and
immaturity of outlook immedi-
ately a lamb is taken from its
mother ; internal parasites which
attack the susceptible youngsters;
cobalt-deficiency in widely-
spaced areas; and malnutrition.
Fortunately, all of these factors
can be tackled by wise manage-
ment.
A few older sheep in the
weaner-flock can help greatly by
acting as guides, philosophers
and friends to the youngsters—
taking them to water, showing
them how to eat stubble and
conserved fodder, and being
relatively immune to internal
parasites, by reducing the wornt-
burden on the pasture,
Internal parasites in weaners
can be tackled by drenching with
phenothiazine immediately the
lambs are separated from their
mothers, and dosing with the
same drug or nicotine-sulphate
for as long as the worms are
troublesome.
Cobalt - deficiency the
symptoms include lassitude,
failure to do well, and weeping
eyes—can be corrected by giving
lOc.c. doses, a week apart, of a
mixture containing loz. cobalt-
sulphate and Boz. copper-
sulphate, in two gallons of rain-
water.
The most important control of
weaner ill-thrift is the provision
of maturing leafy pasture,
rather than the short bite on
which older sheep do so well.
Good weaner feed is much
stemmier than the normal sheep-
pasture, but is not so mature as
to be dead and moulding at the
bottom.
Such pasture can be provided
over the first critical, summer-
autumn-early-winter period by
lucerne, irrigated swards and
autumn-saved grass and clover.
Weaners also do well on long,
white-clover.
Run the weaners ahead of the
lambing - flock and rofa t e
pastures often. Weaners can also
graze long pasture in conjunction
with the dairy-herd.
Once weaners survive the early
winter they go ahead well on
normal sheep-pasture.
Feeding in the Bails
“Aerogenes”: Feeding dairy-
cows while they were being
milked was once a very wicked
thing to do. It violated all the
accepted rules of cleanliness in
milk-production ; it caused feed-
dust to blow about and infect the
milk; it made the cows restless
and not in the mood for milk-
production ; it increased the
amount of dung flying about the
bails during milking.
In spite of all these drawbacks,
feeding while milking has long
been standard practice both in
the “cow of cold
countries and in those dairies in
Australia which used similar
buildings in order to get con-
trolled feeding.
Nowadays, in both the run-
through bails common in Aus-
tralia and in the new “milking
parlors," the feeding of concen-
trates while milking is widely
practised.
Even the Sydney Milk Board
raises no objection ! not
because they condone unclean
conditions for economic reasons,
but because the old objections
are no longer so important.
Feed-dust may blow about,
but with all the milk confined
to the closed circuit of a milking-
machine, very little of it can get
at the milk.
Cows certainly have more to
worry about when taking in feed
is on their mind as well as giving
out milk, but in my experience
a little attention to the timing of
their admission to the bails and
the doling-out of their ration
of feed fits everything in with
the letting-down of the milk,
and the milking is quite satis-
factory.
Timing, again, will sort-out
the manure-problem. Under any
system, the pause out in the yard
just before coming in and the
spending of as little time as
possible in the bails will give
almost 100 per cent, clean floors.
Sound and adequate division-
walls between units are neces-
sary to prevent bullying over
feed.
The wider use of bails-
feeding -is due to several new
developments. Growth of
markets for fresh milk and the
demand for steady, year-round
production make feeding of con-
centrates profitable, and feeding
in the bails has proved to be
the handiest method.
The great extension of
improved-pastures has cut out a
good deal of the hand-feeding
of roughages, such as hay and
green and dry chaffed-feed,
which required a cow to spend
half-an-hour or so at a trough
that holds a large roughage-
ration as well as some concen-
trates. When only about 101 b.
of concentrates needs to fie fed,
this can be given while the cow
is in the milking-bail, and little
extra time needs to be spent
over the milking.
Formerly, this required a
great deal of walking about,
carrying rations to each bail as
the cows were changed, and the
labor involved was hard to
justify : it could add 50 per
cent, to the cost of the feed.
Now that several types of
mechanical feeders are on the
market, both labor and time lost
can be reduced to almost
nothing.
In one type, a hopper is fitted
in the island in each pair of
bails, and a push on a handle
releases a measured quantity of
feed into a trough beside a
cow’s head. The operator
decides on the ration according
to individual production, other
feed available, weather condi-
tions, etc., and gives each cow
the appropriate number of
measures. These can be spaced-
out over the time she spends in
the bail —it keeps the cow
happy. And the lever can be
worked from any angle and at
any suitable moment.
Of course, every step forward
leads to and necessitates another
one. A farmer, in order to check-
up on his improvements, finds
himself weighing milk regularly,
or perhaps having his herd offi-
cially recorded. This leads to
culling of the duds, and an
improvement in the general
quality of the herd. He is
reluctant, then, to see good cows
suffer in bad times, so feed is
stored and the feeding-
programme is steadily improved.
It all costs money, of course,
but before a man has time to
say “Intensive farming is
economically unjustifiable,’’ he
finds that it is interesting, satis-
fying and quite profitable.
Underground Water
“Lanium”: In concentrating
on developing vast water-
storages for irrigation and stock
and domestic purposes have we
been neglecting the vast reservoir
of underground-water in the
Great Australian Basin and
elsewhere?
Although bores have been
used for many years for stock
in low-rainfall areas, and even
as a precaution against shortages
during dry periods in wetter
districts, underground-water is
not used to full advantage here
as compared, for instance, with
its use in California, where,
although conditions are not
strictly comparable, half the
irrigation-water used is pumped
from below —Shasta Dam or no
Shasta Dam.
In his presidential address to
the Victorian branch of the
Australian Institute of Agri-
cultural Science A. L. Tisdall
advised that, in irrigation-districts
especially, the rise of ground-
water could cause serious salting
troubles. In the Murrumbidgee
Irrigation Area H. N. England is
putting his findings into practice
by pumping excess water from a
comparatively shallow basin
under the surface.
Fortunately, Victoria, in par-
ticular, is now taking more
notice of its underground
resources, and there have also
been big developments in parts
of N.S.W., South Australia and
Queensland.
Tisdall, pointing out that the
French have compiled much
data about the ground-water of
North Africa and that Israel
owes its development to a very
thorough utilisation of ground-
water resources, predicts that
population pressure will
ultimately force Australia to
develop its underground-water
resources also.
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin" Bradford Wool
Type Card. This Card has
many uses —as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered —in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed, or
in the paddock, with a type,
perhaps, outside the main run
of your experience. There’s a
big difference between know-
ing and guessing. A compari-
son study, using the Bradford
Weol Type Card, eliminates
the possibility of error. Your
name and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to “The
Bulletin" will send one on its
way.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Papua-New Guinea
Although R. V. Pym seems to be
advocating nationalism for Papua and
New Guinea (B. 7/11/ ’56), he speaks only
of “Papuans” and advocates making New
Guinea “permanently Australian soil.”
Papua, the south-east third of New
Guinea, is Australian soil; it is the north-
east third which is not Australian, but
only a Trust Territory under Australian
administration. Also, R.V.P. does not
appear to take into account that the
Papuans of the south are ethnologically
and developmentally far removed from
the Melanesians of the north.
To take,his last point first: does any-
body really believe that the United
Nations would ever permit the Trust Ter-
ritory to become the property of Aus-
tralia? The Communist and Asian blocs
are already trying to oust the Dutch from
western New Guinea in favor of the Indo-
nesians, and the United States, on present
form, is quite likely to support this. If
Australia wants the Trust Territory for
its own it must take it and defy the
United Nations, which is unthinkable.
No, we must resign ourselves to run-
ning these two different countries on the
present terms, and to regarding them as
two different projects—which they are.
We have examples of internal racial
friction in the old Austria-Hungary, in
Czechoslovakia, in Malaya, and in Fiji, to
warn us against trying to combine the
two New Guinea races into one.
As for R.V.P.’s other points, why try
to develop Papuans into an Australian
nationalism? Isn’t that the sort of thing
Russia is trying to do in the Russian
Empiie? Papuans are not Australians,
and never will be, any more than
Melanesians will ever be Papuans.
Moreover, hasn’t the United States
enough racial troubles, and can’t its
problems teach us the lesson of color
incompatibility? Papua is not “as much
a part of Australia as Tasmania.” The
comparison would have served when
Tasmania was inhabited solely by
aborigines—and the solution then adopted
did not help the aborigines, anyhow. In
any case, what guarantee has R.V.P. that
“the vast majority of Papuans would
prefer to stay at home and not emigrate
to mainland Australia”?
Also, how does “New Guinea’s abun-
dant water arid hydroelectric potential”
confer an enormous advantage on
developing ah Australian nationalism, or
vice versa, whichever R.V.P. means? Or,
for that matter, the undiscovered mineral
resources? Or the better chance of
striking oil than on the Australian main-
land? New Guinea’s resources are needed
for the development of New Guinea, not
. Australia, though Australia can benefit
“What, been away?”
indirectly if sue Helps New Guinea to
develop them.
As for English becoming the future
common language, that must be a
natural evqlution if possible, but it can-
not be hurried. The true lingua franca of
Papua is “Police Motuan” or pidgin
Motuan ; that of the Trust Territory is
pidgin English, and that of Netherlands
New Guinea is “Bazaar Malay” or pidgin
Malay. Each of these is a complete and
adequate, though simple, language, with
its syntax based on that of the native
languages, and with about 50 per cent,
of its words derived from the parent
language and the remainder introduced
from many sources. Pidgin English is
beginning to be called “Neo-melanesian”
—the British and Foreign Bible Society
uses this term for its latest pidgin-English
Bible.
In Papua true English is being taught in
all schools; in the Trust Territory in
only a few. The Papuans learn it almost
as easily as do Australian children
(though there is already a tendency for
some partly-trained native teachers to
pass on an awful brand of “Babu
English”), but the slower Melanesians do
•not take very kindly to English and will
probably always be better served by
Neo-melanesian, which is not, as so many
suppose, a bad joke played on unsophisti-
cated natives by unscrupulous white men,
but a sound and useful language evolved
by the natives themselves and taught to
the Europeans.
Finally, living with colored races is
much more satisfactory for both sides if
they are good neighbors rather than if
they are sharing the one backyard.—
’Ermit (N.S.W.).
Public-spirited Swimmers
Our surf-lifesavers do a wonderful job
—though they do not receive all the
financial support they deserve —but valu-
able, if less spectacular, service is also
given by those who try to save people
from drowning by teaching them to
swim.
The rational Fitness Council and the
Department of Education are among
these, and some of the most valuable and
least publicised work is done by
members of small swimming-clubs.
One of these, fairly typical, is in a
medium-sized country town. There are
many sporting bodies in the district and
the swimming-club is one of the smallest.
The only pool is a hole in the river. Each
spring, members clean it out and remove
snags, broken bottles and so forth. They
also maintain the dressing-sheds, which,
after floods, often need complete rebuild-
ing. Then they put up a few posters
saying that lessons will be given each
Sunday morning, and prepare to be
mobbed.
The 12 qualified instructors found
themselves with nearly 300 pupils this
year—a few adults, but mostly young
children. They split them up into three
classes —non-swimmers, dog-paddlers and
swimmers needing further coaching. This
reduced the second and third classes to
manageable proportions, but it was soon
evident that Sunday mornings were not
long enough to cope with so many non-
swimmers. So Saturday classes were
started as well. Past experience has
shown that all who attend fairly
regularly will be swimming at least 25yds.
by the end of the season.
The patient, cheerful instructors never
begrudge this loss of their leisure time.
They are young men and women, many
under twenty, and all in jobs. The tuition
is entirely free. Though grateful pupils
may make donations to club funds, their
teachers themselves receive nothing.
The club described is one of many
throughout the country, and this is just
an ordinary summer for them. It all adds
up to a very useful total of persons taught
to look after themselves in the water —
and an impressive degree of unselfishness
on the part of club members. — Margaret
Lorraine (N.S.W.).
_
Hire-purchase
One badly needed hire-purchase reform
is protection for the purchaser of goods
which may have been acquired on h.p.
A friend of mine recently bought a car
from one of the local dealers and, a few
weeks later, found that the vehicle actu-
ally belonged to a finance company and
that its immediate return was demanded,
Fortunately, the dealer was an honest
“ Parking-meters? Probably had something to do with the Olympics—
they do everything in metres."
man and took full responsibility, even to
the extent of lending him a car while
the dirty details were adjusted.
A person of flexible conscience has
only to declare that the vehicle he sells
or trades-in is not under any mortgage —
that is the only requirement demanded by
law. Actually, although the registration-
papers are made out in the owner’s
(?) name, the vehicle, in law, is the pro-
perty, of the h.-p. company until the last
instalment is paid.
Protection for the prospective buyer,
and a deterrent to crooks who pass off
h.-p. vehicles, would be the addition of a
code-letter on the registration-papers. My
current registration bears the code
“USpI7NCHIO,” which means that the
vehicle is a utility, 5-cwt. load, second-
hand, used as a private and commercial
vehicle and is of 10 h.p. The addition
of “/ AGCSB” would mean little or noth-
ing to the average* person, but would
convey to a prospective buyer that it was
on h.-p. to the A.G.C. and should be paid
for by 1958. -
By such means honest dealers would
be protected, and snide sellers placed
within means of a quick spot-check.—
Fordpop (Q.).
School Reports
The school-year ended in something of
a furore in our part of the world when the
headmaster of a primary
school stated publicly that
his policy did not include
traditional class “listings”
—a child’s report is usually
based mainly on his work
over the year, and pro-
gress in each subject is in-
dicated to parents by
means of a classified list
of suitable headings—
excellent, good, unsatisfac-
tory, etc., with appropriate
comments.
The headmaster went on
to say that he had no idea
of , the position in class of
any child in the school.
One effect of this was that
it prevented egotistical
parents from boasting
about Johnny’s scholastic
attainments; another was
that the child derived
mental comfort in the
knowledge that his report
would not be modelled
entirely on examination
results—-that examination jitters and
emotional variations were allowed for,
and that he did not have to suffer jibes
for “coming last.”
Such a sensible system naturally drew a
crop of protests, but it seemed that most
of the objections were provoked by the
headmaster’s barbed shaft directed at
boastful parents —there have been no
protests from the children.
The main question is whether a
satisfactory standard of education is
being attained by the individual—and this
the parent can quickly and accurately
deduce from the report provided. Any
other consideration matters not two
hoots, and the headmaster concerned,
while his system is by no means unique,
will undoubtedly obtain better results
from the children,
As one who was never well up on
class-placings, I can remember only too
well the cruel form such post-mortems
can take among children. — Kemberry
(A.C.T.).
Dear Dr. Morris Miller,
My attention has been drawn to your letter
on the Red Page of The Bulletin two or three
weeks ago commenting on a letter of mine that
appeared there a little earlier. I do not see that
journal nowadays except in an occasional'
accidental way, otherwise I might have written
again to the editor what 1 think you ought to
know of the circumstances.
Had my letter not been mutilated, youas
would hardly have been written at all. The
Red Page editor deleted a passage in which 1
remark that I omit much that you thought
necessary so far as my writing in “Australian
Literature” draws on your original data “as in
the commentary on Dorothy Cottrell.” My
purpose in adding this was to avoid any taint of
unfairness such as your letter suggests—though
surely it is obvious that no two writers can
accurately give the bare facts concerning an
author and the theme of her novel without close
similarity. , ,
The Red Page editor’s idea of editorial
decency or responsibility seems to permit him to
ignore his own interference with what I wrote
and consequently leave me open to a slur based
on your lack of knowledge of what he did. In
common fairness he could have returned your
letter with the necessary explanation or
published it with that explanation.
Yours sincerely,
Frederick T. Macartney.
Clubs for the Aged
One government subsidy instituted by
the Victorian Government should be
queried by no reasonable citizen. Last
October the Government decided to
subsidise municipalities for the establish-
ment of clubs for elderly citizens: to
date 15 such clubs have been established;
the facilities they provide are particularly
welcomed by elderly persons living alone
ip rooms. Meeting-places, recreational
accessories and in some centres meals
are provided ; some clubs run visiting
services, chiropody and hairdressing
facilities, and are proposing to raise
funds for the purchase of TV-sets.
Voluntary organisations are doing their
bit, and the scheme is working well.—
Wusslean (Vic.).
Transport
It’s time for a full-dress discussion on
Australia’s over-all transport problems.
The Transport Advisory Council some
time ago urged attention to the
possibility of effecting savings (in an
annual bill which in 1953-54 was £1305
million) “through the promotion of better
co-ordinated, cheaper and more effective
transport.” It was admitted that this
might mean measures of regulation as
well as properly-planned investment in
the transport field. Perhaps the Premiers,
when appealing for Federal help for their
damaged roads, will now be more
inclined to discuss these proposals and
to take a national view of the whole
problem.—In the Act (A.C.T.).
“The Singing Gold”
Though the enclosed copy of a letter
to Dr. E. Morris Miller is not intended
for publication, the matter being one of
little general interest, 1 have no objection
to its being published in its entirety.
Yours faithfully,
Frederick T. Macartney.


oritain and America
“New York Times,” deploring the rift
in Anglo-American relations over Suez,
has declared that Americans had never
been hostile to the British people: “We
(ought the War of the Revolution, and
t he War of 1812, against a Britain
croverned by an aristocracy whose laws
were made by a Parliament corrupted
by rotten boroughs. We never fought
the people of England.”
The argument is historically unsound.
The Whig party, to which most of the
leading aristocratic houses in the U.K.
adhered, was pro-American in both wars.
••The Venetian oligarchy that encircled
and enchained the Throne,” Disraeli later
dubbed the great Whig families.
The Tory party, which held office at
Westminster during both wars, drew its
personnel and support mainly from the
lesser country gentry, the Anglican clergy
and the professional classes—Army and
Navy officers of middle-class stock were
then generally strongly Tory. Far more
opportunity to attain a high political post
was afforded one lacking high social
position in the Tory party than in its
rival —as demonstrated by the respective
careers of Canning and Lord Eldon, and
of Sheridan and Burke. Of the two
Tories, one became Foreign Minister and
later Prime Minister and the other Lord
Chancellor ; Burke and Sheridan reached
only minor Ministerial rank.
Dislike for Americans and their ways
was most pronounced m the late 18th
century and early 19th century among the
British middle-classes. Apart from the
Leftist intellectuals, who tended to boost
the U.S.A. and Revolutionary France as
model societies —as their kind does Soviet
Russia today—the middle-class element
most sympathetic to the Americans were
businessmen with important trade-
interests in U.S.A.
The ostensible reason for the U.S.
declaration of war in 1812 was the British
Orders in Council issued in reply to
Napoleon’s Berlin and Milan decrees
which threatened with capture any neutral
ship that traded with a British-controlled
port, or even called at one. The British
Orders in Council replied in kind.
American shippers did a big carrying
trade with'France and French-occupied
areas of Europe, and there was naturally
resentment in the U.S.A. at the strictness
of the British blockade. But a maritime
Power engaged in a iife-and-death struggle
with aggressive despotism, weak at sea
but supreme on land, could not be
expected to forgo the advantages of a
thoroughgoing naval blockade. In sub-
sequent wars British Governments have
followed the same practice.
Another American grievance was the
right of search of neutral ships on the
high seas for deserters. 'Here American
practice made trouble. In those days no
probationary period was necessary before
American citizenship was granted. There
were cases where deserters from British
warships got on to American vessels in
neutrai ports and were at once sworn in
as U.S. citizens.
Actually the Orders in Council were
withdrawn to placate the U.S. Govern-
ment, but the latter was determined on
war. The Americans most' adversely
affected —the people of the New England
States, the main shipping-centres of the
U.S. —were opposed to the war and
virtually took no part in it.
It was the frontiersmen of the
southern and middle States who were
keenest for it. They held the balance of
power in American politics. Traditionally
pro-French and anti-British, they also
hoped to benefit from the distribution of
lands confiscated from British supporters
in Canada. President Madison’s Secre-
tary for War was a keen “war hawk,”
because he believed that the conquest of
Canada would be a walkover and that his
winning credit for organising it would
make him a certainty for the Presidency.
—Lyle (N.S.W.).
Decimal Coinage
“ ’Ermit’s” concluding paragraph (B.
24/10/’56) underlines one of the major
reasons for decimal currency.
As every importer knows, when meet-
ing a bill the bank calculates the conver-
sion to £A by multiplying the sterling
amount by 125.5 per cent. Long before
that, the importer has had to work per-
centage calculations from sterling right: up
to £A, taking percentage values of odd
shillings and pence.
To give one ludicrous example: pricing
the landed-cost, duty paid, of an article in
British Preferential Tariff Class C, where
current domestic value is greater than
selling-price to purchaser, involves no
fewer than 10 such calculations.
Some of the calculations require two
or more references to the percentage-table
each time. With decimal currency the
“Penny for ’em, dear”
number would be reduced, and, more im-
portant, the number of man-hours spent
in such, work drastically reduced.
One point missed by all contributors
on this subject is the amount of school-
time wasted on memorising our British
currency and weights-and-measures
tables. Another is the wasted man-hours
spent in estimating costs in building-
trades, etc.
Continental folk have a handy little
calculator —a circular “slide-rule.” So
many metres or grammes at so many
francs, or whatever the currency. One
twist of the wrist, and it’s done. —
Emptor (Vic.).
Give and Take
How far is it wise tor any thinly
populated -country, depending mainly on
overseas trade in primary produce for its
prosperity, to branch out into ambitious
self-sufficiency in secondary industrial
development?
Both New Zealand and Australia must
consider that question in view of their
industrial labor-conditions, which enforce
steadily increasing cost-structures and
retard competitive ability with overseas
producers. .
With prosperity depending on primary
production, it is essential that we do
everything to preserve our existing
markets, rather than cut-loose with the
object of protecting a lot of unimportant
secondary industries.
Tooling-up to cater for small popula-
tions can be dangerous in several ways,
It can cause a drift from the land, and
it can create unemployment when a
certain state of saturation is reached.
That state is being reached in Australia,
where many mechanical gadgets are
becoming a glut on the market because
most people have stocked-up.
Where industry has to cater for 150-
million people spread over a great country,
the electrical-gadget provider has a vast
market before him. But where 10-million
or two-million people must provide the
market it is not so easy. And if export
markets are non-existent, the organisation
can soon be in difficulties.
Recent events have made it clear that
Britain, our best customer, is being forced
to buy in the cheapest market the food
she cannot produce for herself. We must
remember that our market is by no means
the cheapest. Not much good is likely to
come to us from too much secondary
industry competing with the principal
purchasers of our foodstuffs and other
primary products.
Small populations should make up their
mind* to nrpserve a nrnner balance—to
minds to preserve a proper balance to
buy as well as sell with sufficient loc
secondary industry to meet particular
requirements of the country. The alter-
native is to reduce primary production
and go all out for heavy or secondary
industry. Neither Australia nor New
Zealand can expect to have it both ways
while the industrial set-up keeps their
..i,,,
The' USA is living to have it both
ways its overstocks? S heaviiy
subsidised foodstuffs and is practically
self-sufficient in every industrial direction.
But because it buys little it can only sell
little That’s why the U.S. is busy unload-
ing huge surpluses of foodstuffs, either by
giving the products away for some
political consideration or selling them at
reduced prices and disrupting established
markets. — Shellback (N.S.W.).
Road Safety
I can’t see anything in what “T.K. 11l
(B. 5/12/’56) says to discredit Ml. Hugh
King’s scheme or to suggest that the one
he proposes is any better. I won t have it
that the things that keep a man in a risky
occupation relatively safe are supervision
by his colleagues or a boss, rather than
his training. Take flying, as an example.
Does “T.K. HI” seriously suggest that
training doesn’t play an important part in
the magnificent record of our aviators?
Before a motorist can be punished
for erratic or unsafe driving there must
be a policeman to detect his offence ; and
if our only hold on drivers is the policing
of our roads to the extent necessary to
detect everyone who breaks the law, we
shall need a policeman for every motorist.
Not all unsafe driving can be laid at the
door of incompetent motorists—many
people who break the highway code are
really capable drivers who have never
been taught the self-discipline necessary
to make them conscious of
the rights of other road-users.
As King has so ably
pointed out, mere mechani-
cal skill does not make a
safe driver; similarly, con-
cern for one’s own safety is
not always sufficient guaran-
tee that a driver will keep
out of trouble. Often he
does so at the expense of
other drivers, and that
cannot be described as safe
driving by any stretch of
imagination.
Courtesy and considera-
tion for the rights of others
can only be taught to some
people by practical example,
and that is the basis of
King’s scheme. The
courteous driver is now
often sneered at by the bully
and road-hog, and his very
act of courtesy often in-
volves him in trouble or
embarrassment. Where,
then, is .the value of
courtesy? True, it has a
limited value if practised
only by a minority of road-
users. Our aim must be to
encourage all drivers to
“play the game” on the
roads, and that can never be done by
the methods “T.K. Ill” proposes. There
is no protection for anyone when saie-
driving is practised only in sight of a
policeman—M. F. Dixon (N.S.W.).
Bonds No Deterrent
After reading “Shellback’s” comment
(B. 5/12/’s6)—“The young bandit who
steals a car deserves a stiff fine or jai
rather than a bond to be of good behavior,
encouragement for him t o
eat tbe offence”—l picked up a news-
P proof of his contention
, * rpnnrt
inac m p ' ~ ■
Two Victorian youths had plea e
guilty to illegally usingtwo cars and
setting fire to them. Both youthss hey
were 18 and 19 had been F®™ously
convicted and given good-behavioi bonds.
This time the judge took no chances He
sentenced them to four years and three-
and-a-half years in clink,
Judicial action in this vein rather than
the granting of bonds to convicted
criminals, would soon put an end to car-
thefts and wanton destruction of
property. Doynest ( ic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 415
Across
I—One1 —One who funks the Noel-like
dessert? (7, 7)
8— Coming with a horseshoe about a
daring enterprise full of incident.
(9)
9 Sark. (5)
12— Piano or cordage which may Be
drunk. (4-4)
13— Drone had a meal but com-
plained loudly. (6)
15—Weaken one fired during a
Parliamentary discussion. (10)
18—Vehicle is three feet back. (4)
20 — N.S.W. town which you could
play on the piano, so ask one.
(4)
21— Suspend batting trouble with
16-down offending the racecourse
stewards. (7, 3)
24 Tradesman who is partly engaged
in Negro ceremonies. (6)
25 Guide has a parent who is
swallowed by a fire-spouter. (8)
29—Welles or the offspring. (5)
31 — The finger is broken during the
snare evening. (5, 4)
32 Pop. (2)
33 A comment on 9-across when
21-across. (5, 5,4)
Down
1 — Edward the Title-holder chewed
hard. (7)
2 A semaphorer to hesitate between
two courses. (5)
3 A French boy associated with
Walter’s renovations. (8)
4 The second person to join the
Royal Navy belongs to ye. (5)
5 Employer is sure to change. (4)
6 Bunch of threads used to
decorate a news agency of the
Russians and the Spanish. (6)
7 Russian upset the German. (3)
10 — Assume that a refusal is implied
hell. (7)
11 — Tyson’s father is holding the odd
drink. (5)
14—St. Agnes does mate him. (4)
16 — The dizzy disease in 33-across
afflicts them. (3, 4)
17 — Rent a sign of emotion. (4)
19 — Don-like or Sir Don-like. (8)
20 — Spinner which is an outsize
circus-tent. (3-3)
22 Five people walk on such a pro-
fessional charge in a tent. (3, 4)
23 Wrote to shut up Kelly. (6)
26 Unyielding set of sail I had. (5)
27 Girl whose weight is rising to
nothing. (5)
28—Cosy firearms turned up. (4)
30—Students may indulge in this
item of Nanki-Poo’s apparel. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 414


wmm
. ss--
.<<■«
: $%:
m
Mg
x->»
fyXfGf&MV-
ss>x->:s^;:;: ; :;<
m
mmm
tm
11
WvX-X'XAa..
xww,;:
IWMK^
«ivXv.
* 1
ill
V,-
5K2555
a-ssf
Jv./M
fit
•WJWS
:->.x
■WMGii
/ta&Wx:
ym
»:■■ ■
• ~*
x«»:
. -..itljll
.wSS
* . v
w
• v
ilwSi
BUT IT WILL PROBABLY BE TOO LATE. It’s
a long drop down there a long drop into
eternity. Someone said he was careless took
the bend too wide. Really the road was to
blame. The bend is too tight the corner
blind. This road, a potential killer, should
stretch away into the haze, straight and wide.
Australia has hundreds of hazards like this
because nobody seems to care. Don’t you care
about the 7,000 accidents a year due solely to
bad roads? Don’t you care that scores of people
perhaps your relatives, your friends, your
neighbours were killed in those accidents. . .
or that some 3,000 were badly injured? Stop
and think what straight roads would mean in
greater driving comfort in quicker, more
economical transport in greater safety.
Every time you tell your M.P. that a
National Roads Authority to control our high-
ways is essential every time you talk about
the need for such an authority at meetings and
amongst your friends you are doing some-
thing constructive towards making Australian
roads better, safer.
CATERPILLAR
\N
th*
Ql°
V^ G
\\\o
*CATER PILLAR AND CAT ARE
REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OF
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO.. U.S.A.
DIESEL ENGINES • TRACTORS • MOTOR GRADERS • EARTHMOVING EQUIPMENT
CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
*’26
