

Ay
m
I
e
£
SOLEMO
SWEET OR DR 1
The Bulletin
The Pleasures of Poaching—page 34
Wednesday, May 22, 1957.
Price l/«
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered Mi Australia for transmission try post as a newspaper.
ON (he outskirts of Bognor ' Regis, in the village of
Felpham which is visited each jpeople who go there
to see the thatched-roofed cottage of William Blake, the 18th-century
poet, painter and visionary.
William Blake was born in 1757, in London, the son of .a hosier,
and at the early age of ten he showed a taste for art. He was
apprenticed to an engraver, and at the age of 21 he became an
independent engraver, and in 1784, after a short time at .the Royal
Academy, he opened a printseller’s shop in London. ,
As a painter he gained fame in illustrating his “Canterbury
Pilgrims,” "Jacob’s Dream” and “The Last Judgment.” From a
very early age Blake had mystic tendencies, but his visions were
ridiculed by his contemporaries; in later years he was called .‘.‘the
greatest mystic of the Western world.” In 1789 he issued “Songs
of Innocence,” the book being entirely designed and produced by
himself and his wife. In the same year he produced the “Book of
Thcl,” the first of his remarkable prophetic books.
His best-known work was “Jerusalem,” the words of which were
set to music many years later by Sir Hubert Parry. From 1801 to
1804 Blake lived at Felpham with his friend William Haley, the poet,
whose "Life of Camper” he illustrated with engravings. These
three years proved to be the happiest of his'life, only marred by
his trial and acquittal at Chichester on a charge of seditious libel
brought by a soldier whom he had ejected from his garden.
After 1804 William Blake devoted himself entirely to illustrative
work, which included designs for “Paradise Lost” and the “Book of
Job.” He died in 1827, at the age of seventy.
No. 350: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
WILLIAM BLAKE'S COTTAGE, FELPHAM, SUSSEX


STORY WRITING ! !
MANY STOTT STUDENTS
PAY FOR THEIR COURSE
before completing it. It will pay YOU to
study with STOTT’S.
Note these extracts from letters received: —
“Since I started my Course, I have had SIX-
TEEN Stories and Articles accepted, so you see
the Course has more than PAID FOK ITSELF.”
“I have, earned more money while taking the
Course than I paid in fees.”
‘My earnings from my Writing total almost
£7O (Les. II).”
“During the last six months my Acceptances
have returned me over £200.”
“I very much enjoyed my Freelance Journalism
Course and more than paid for the Course with
articles accepted.”
STOTT’S CAN TRAIN YOU AT HOME);
Our Literary Prospectus is sent without,
obligation to all interested in Writing.
inn Russell St., .Melbourne; lla l.astleieairh St.,
Sydney; 2!W Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St.. Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CVT AND MAIL THIS COUPOM
To STOTT’S: Pirate send me, without any obli-
j+ation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
Vour Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(5.R.957) ACE .
BOOK.HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—-fiction,
text book, biography, bistory, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
A NOVEL FROM ICELAND
It is always a little astonishing, on
picking u£ an Icelandic saga such as
The Story of Burnt Njal (Everymans),
to be forced to realise again that these
heroes of the icy north, despite their
novels and their poetry, their system
of law and government, their settled
farming and their daring voyages, their
European blood and their pride in fine
craftsmanship, were hardly as civilised
as the aborigines and had reached
only about the level of the Maoris or
the Scottish clans (so many of whom
number them among their ancestors)
up to 1745.
For the aborigines, after all, had
reduced tribal warfare in the main to
an admirable system of more-or-less
token-displays, which the U.N. would
do well to emulate; but these sea-
raiders of “Burnt Njal,” shamelessly
setting out near the end of the book
to meet near Dublin on Palm Sunday
and slaughter King Brian Boru (which
they did at Clontarf), were as aggres-
sive as Te Rauparaha or Hitler.
Private revenge among the abo-
rigines was very well controlled by
tribal law and the administration of
the Old Men; but these wild Ice-
landers, though they had a jury-system
1 and a hierarchy of courts-of-appeal
remarkably well organised, too often
—rather like some of our own union-
ists—disregarded the judgment when
it didn’t happen to favor them, and
fell upon each other with battle-axes.
As, for example, in as memorable a
picture of fury as has ever been written,
did Thorhall and all his supporters
when the clever lawyer at the Tiling had
talked them out of their atonement
for the burning of Njal and his
family:—
Now the messenger comes to
Thorhall Asgrim’s son, and tells
him how things stood, and how
Mord Valgard’s son and his friend
would all be made outlaws, and the
suits for manslaughter be brought
to naught.
But when he heard that he was so
shocked at it that he could not
utter a word. He jumped up then
from his bed, and clutched with
both hands his spear, Skarphedinn’s
gift, and drove it through his
foot . ... Now he went out of the
booth unhalting, and walked so
hard thht the messenger could not
keep up with him, and so he goes
until he came to the Fifth Court.
There he met Grim the Red,
Flosi’s kinsman, and as soon as ever
they met, Thorhall thrust at him
with the spear, and smote him on
the shield and clove it in twain, but
the spear passed right through him,
so that the point came out between
his shoulders. Thorhall cast him off
his spear.
But if the Icelanders were savages
they were also great novelists ; or at
least the unknown author of “Burnt
Njal” was, looking back from the
thirteenth century to the wild history
of the tenth and early eleventh and,
“rather as a creative artist than an
exact historian,” writing his immense
and beautiful tragedy. It is speculated
as to whether he was “a monk, a
secular priest or a lettered layman.”
Perhaps the best thing about “Burnt
Njal,” from the viewpoint of popular
readability, is simply that it is in
prose ; for whether in William Morris
or in the latest American translations,
the verse-sagas of the north are very
hard to get into and very confusing
when you do. To apprehend anything
of their original quality, which no
doubt was high enough, you would
need, first, to know who everybody is,
as the local audiences would have ;
then, to be able to follow all their
strange stylised circumlocutions ; and
then to hear them sung to the harp so
that their thumping rhythm and heavy
alliteration would sound, not like a
schoolboy’s experiment, or a harsher
“Hiawatha,” but like a stirring,
barbaric music.
But, simple and direct, full of inti-
mate pictures of Icelandic life and
scenery, equally effective when it is
describing the great battle at the
Althing, a cloak or weapon of rich
workmanship or so humble an item as
the Irish wolfhound Sam, the prose of
“Burnt Njal” is as approachable as
anyone could wish. Sam, given as a
watchdog to the heroic Gunnar and
faithfully fighting for him till the last,
when Aunund of Witch wood smote
him on the head and he “gave such a
great howl that they thought it passing
strange, and he fell down dead,”
deserves to be—-and of course is—as
immortal as Homer’s famous dog. the
only creature that recognised Ulysses
on his return.
And, long and much-involved as
the story is—like the plays of Aeschylus
blended into a single prose-epic: as
bloody as the Greek legends, or even
fuller of slaughter, but not so cruel
and perverse—it moves with wonderful
clarity and sureness. When any
character ceases to be of further use,
the author simply says “Now he is out
of the story,” and has done with him.
Following the pattern of the blood-
feud —murder ; appeal to the courts ;
revenge; and then revenge for the
revenge—it moves in a clear progres-
sion from the first man-slayings by
Hallgerda and Bergthora to the climax
of the burning of Njal and his family,
then the aftermath of the terrible
revenge taken for this deed by Kari,
the only survivor of the fire, travelling
alone to the Orkneys, Scotland and
Wales and striking down the exiled
assassins:—
“I mean,” said Kari, “to fare
abroad after them, and so dog their
footsteps and slay them, if I can get
at them.”
The novel is. as E. O. G. Turnville-
Petre says in his introduction, almost
unique in Icelandic literature in the
clarity and lifelikeness of its characters.
Gunnar, if a hero, is as clearly defined
as Ajax; Hallgerda and Bergthora,
those two monumental housewives,
slaying each other’s manservants in
domestic rivalry, are like those terrific
blonde heroines of the early Ibsen
dramas, before he turned to prose and
sociology and became such a bore;
Njal, hairless, wise and temperate, is
a most rare and curious creation ; and
Flosi, his reluctant murderer, and Kari,
his sombre and steadfast revenger, if
not so clearly outlined as individuals,
are both exceptionally moving as the
creatures of tragic fate.
The translation, by the Victorian
scholar Sir George Webbe Dasent, is
(“Red Page” continued on page 58)
KENNETH MACKENZIE
The poem by Kenneth Mackenzie
on page 58 of this issue was found
amongst his MSS. during research for
a collected edition to be published
by Angus and Robertson. It was
apparently written not long before
his death.


The ONLY AUSTRALIAN
Children’s Major Encyclopaedia
m
V
v
N
%
4'
’NEWNES’
THE ©KIY
work of its kind designed and
produced especially for our
children by Australian artists,
authors, scientists, etc. No
longer is it necessary for parents to
rely on editions primarily published
for children overseas. Now—the only
Australian children's encydopcedia of
its kind is available for Australia’s
children, schools and libraries.
Australia—as it should be portrayed—
against a World background, for
Australia’s future citizens.
ONLY
GREAT WORK OF ITS KIND
LEADING AUSTRALIANS IN
LETTERS OF GOODWILL
including authorities on
• EDUCATION
£ GOVERNMENT
9 FLORA AND FAUNA
« INDUSTRY
9 MINERALS
® SCIENCE
& SHEEP AND WOOL
• AVIATION
9 NAVY, ARMY, AIR FORCE
® SPORTING
® HISTORY
9 THE INLAND
• EXPLORERS
• NATIONAL HEROES
A RAILWAYS
ABORIGINAL ART
Q These and all aspects of
knowledge appealingly pre-
sented for Australian young-
sters of all ages.
PICTORIAL KNOWLEDGE
Only major authoritative AUSTRALIAN work for AUSTRALIAN children
Learning becomes an exciting adventure.
Parents and everyone interested in education
have for many, many years recognised the need
for authoritative “knowledge” books for children.
Now, for the first time, Australian children —
our children —have their own responsible major
work—unique of its kind. There is nothing
similar to the entirely new Australian Pictorial
Knowledge.
LOOK AT THE SCOPE of Newnes' Australian
PICTORIAL KNOWLEDGE
10 SUPERS VOLUMES splendidly bound to endure eager
handling by young readers—a proud acquisition to any home
library.
12,000 REFERENCES covering Australian topics and a
world-wide range of subjects, from A-B-C to Atomic Energy,
from Tea to Titanium and TV, from Romans to Rocket Flight,
etc.
416 PAGES OF FACTUAL INDEX make it easy to find
the data, stories and pictures in any field, including Aborigines,
Captain Cook's Voyages, Explorers of Australia, Foundation,
Our Parliament, The Royal Flying Doctor Service, Woomera,
The Snowy River Scheme, and a host of other references of the
utmost importance to the Australian schoolchild.
5,317 ILLUSTRATIONS showing the world and its work—
Things of the earth, sea and sky, The Romance of Wool, How
our Paper, Glass and Motor Cars, etc., are made, Our
Factories of to-day and of the future, Melbourne Olympiad,
etc., etc.
484 COLOUR PICTURES bringing in rich tones, great
works of art, scenes from all over the globe, Australian
birds, animals, butterflies and fish, Australia's railways, primary
products, minerals, etc., and a World Atlas.
350 EXPLANATORY DRAWINGS explain the How and
the Why of the familiar and the unfamiliar.
I,ooo‘s OF UNUSUAL PICTURES explaining the sciences,
history and geography, etc., and introducing the child to all
the activities at home as well as all the countries overseas.
* EVERY ACTIVITY OF EVERY STATE and EVERY INTEREST OF THE WHOLE
AUSTRALIAN NATION engagingly but factually presented!
PLUS COMPREHENSIVE REFERENCE TO THE WHOLE WORLD contributed, edited
and authenticated by leading authorities.
FREE!
5 years'
Advisory
Service
W.A
S.A
VIC.
N.S.W
Q'LD
N.T
TAS.
PAPUA
AND NjG.
nBPOBIr
V *£Q<sr&°f
You simply pay your-
first low monthly
subscription.
m
m
m
SPECIAL A
P i CTO RIA
009
KALIAN EDITION
KNOWLEDGE
Fill in, and post this coupon, printing your. name and address
clearly. This coupon brings you a completely informative brochure
describing Australia's only children's major encyclopaedia, Pictorial
Knowledge, and full details of the simple subscription purchase
plan.
Post This Coupon To-dcayi
To GEORGE NEWNES (AUST.) PTY. LTD.,
Newnes House, 20-22 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Please send me details and brochure of Pictorial Knowledge, the only
major authoritative Australian work for Australian children.
NAME
PRINT CLEARLY
ADDRESS
SIGNATURE
PK.I.SB


The Bulletin
Vol. 78—No. 4032
l Wednesday, May 22, 1957
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICr : 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Oi'H! ns .nd: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: f>4 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
V\ estralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathans Buiiuings (opposite
G.P O.), Wellington.
PROBLEMS OF DEFENCE
THE partial revolt of the Govern-
ment back-benchers in the House of
Representatives on the defence pro-
gramme, and the partial surrender of
the Government on national training,
is evidence of the general disquiet
about the programme in general.
Nobody is happy about it except
the thinkers of the pure push-button
school, who, strangely enough, include
a lot of people who were ready to
condemn the theory when it was
supported ardently by the Chifley
Government.
The Government’s plans, indeed,
have earned irritating reminders from
people like Mr. Eddie Ward that it has
virtually adopted Labor’s ideas. It
must have been very galling for the
defence Ministers last week to listen
to Mr. Ward misusing the undoubted
facts about the weaknesses in existing
defence and in current schemes to serve
his own shabby objectives.
The Government made a very poor
showing in the debate, especially in
felation to the part of its blueprint
which calls for the provision of a mere
single brigade-group “striking-force”
in the Regular Army and a shadow-
trained 12,000 national trainees who,
for all they are likely to accomplish
under existing ideas, might just as well
be left at home.
Mr. Cramer, the Minister for the
Army, has had no military experience,
and he certainly has neither a military
mind nor one that runs in tune with
the actual situation or even with the
Government’s own policy. For while
the sole justification for the whittling-
down of the Army and the R.A.N.
lies in the Government’s supposed need
for instantaneous action in the event
of war, Mr. Cramer seemed pleased to
be able to tell the House that, “if war
did break out, because we have a large
number of fully-trained men in the
C.M.F. we would be able to get a
division away within reasonably quick
time, within five or six months.”
Mr. Osborne defended the Govern-
ment’s switch of balance to the
R.A.A.F. on the ground of external
examples of the British Isles, the
United States and Canada. He pointed
out, for instance, that in the United
States the Navy gets 28 per cent, of
the total defence vote, the Army 24
per cent., and the Air Force 52 per
cent., while in Canada the relative
figures are 20 per cent., 28 per cent,
and 52 per cent. But he failed to say
that the joint effort of these two
adjacent countries whose defence-
scheme is virtually integral—and again
linked closely into the unity of Nato—
provides about 2.000.000 men in the
Army and a joint Navy which is larger
and more powerful and more modernly
armed than the whole of the other
nations of the world put together; also
that an integration as between the
three Services exists in U.S. which does
not exist here.
Moreover, the fact that the United
Kingdom has made vast reductions in
its forces and is preparing to make
greater ones is no criterion by which
to judge Australia’s needs, since much
of Britain’s defence retrenchment is
due to its shedding of world-police
responsibilities which have been taken
over by the United States.
Australia is an isolated unit; also
an important strategic base; and the
Government is frankly relying on the
fact that if world war comes we shall
be treated as we were last time and
the Americans will flock here and
assure our protection. But in any
coming world war that is not by any
means a certainty. Australia was in
a favored position last time because
the United States had no shorter lines
of communication or nearer base to
the heart of the Japanese war potential
than via this continent.
The most authoritative and sensible
speech in the House of Representatives
defence debate was that of Air-Vice-
Marshal Bostock. a man with compre-
hensive service in both great wars
and with a refreshing lack of Service
prejudice—he began the first war in
the A.I.F. and, via the R.F.C.. became
an original member of the R.A.A.F.
and rose to command R.A.A.F.
units in the Allied Air Forces. He
summed-up his feeling—and the feel-
ing of almost every serious critic of
the scheme who is not motivated by
the dubious considerations which pro-
duced Opposition criticism—that when
the present scheme is completed in
three years’ time (if indeed it is com-
pleted in three years’ time) it will leave
us much in the situation in which we
find ourselves today. That is, “out
of date and obsolete.”
Mr. Bostock agreed that it was right
and proper that Australia should be
fitted to take its proper place in the
Anzus Pact and the South-east Asia
Treaty Organisation and play its part
in the cold war; but he is right in
saying that this is of “secondary
importance,” and that the Government
plans, despite the Prime Minister’s
indication that a threat of major nuclear
attack exists, seem to take no cognis-
ance of the possibility of that attack
or of an attack outside the realm of
world war.
He scorns the suggestion which
seems to be inherent in the existing
viewpoint “that we shall rely on our
friends if attacked.”
Australia alone might be singled-out
for attack, and there is no weighing of
chances as to whether “the United
Kingdom with a population of about
50,000,000 (closely-packed people) or
the United States with 150,000,000
would be likely to render themselves
liable to retaliatory attack by major
nuclear weapons merely to revenge a
lethal blast on Australia’s scattered
10,000,000.” The U.S. would be more
likely to get Cuba to refer the matter
to the United Nations, as in the case of
Hungary savaged byßussian invaders.
The history of United States attitudes
has been clear enough in the past. If
there had been no assault on Atlantic
traffic in World War I the U.S. would
have let European freedom fall, and
if there had been no Pearl Harbor in
World War II the same would prob-
ably have been true. Self-interest has
so far always been the guiding-star
in the American flag.
Mr. Bostock believes in immediate
measures for local atomic armament
and production of fissionable and
fusionable materials in Australia with
provision of power to carry nuclear
weapons produced here over distances
long enough to enable the R.A.A.F. to
strike at Asiatic bases. In fact, he
believes that Australia should enter
the region of deterrent war on its own
account.
This, of course, calls for a complete
reorientation of thinking as regards
local manpower usage and for the most
thorough training of the whole popu-
lation in the elements of civil defence,
with the backing of a fairly substantial
military force of versatile ingredients
and an R.A.N. with adequately spaced
bases and as sufficient an anti-
submarine content as can be paid for.
This last element is important, with
the round-the-world submarine a
normal factor in war and atomic
weapons reduced to sizes which render
them portable by a single man. In
the last war the few developed needed
a Superfortress to carry them.
Attack from the sea by missile,
guided or otherwise, becomes a
particular menace to Australia’s large
seaboard cities.
The whole situation calls for original
and independent thinking, which so
far has not been much in evidence.


SMOKE-SIGNALS
“This last-feller say: ‘Now we ready to come to corroboree.'"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Britain and the H-bomb
If reports on the explosion of the British
hydrogen-bomb over Christmas Island
are only half-correct, the news is
momentous as it affects Britain’s position
in the world.
The British Minister for Supply has
declared that the fall-out from the bomb
was negligible. And the very fact that it
was dropped from a height of eight miles
and exploded high in the air shows it to
be a markedly different H-bomb from the
American version used at Bikini, which
was far too large to handle in practical
air-warfare and which spread its deadly
poison for hundreds of miles around.
With no fall-out (or very little) and
little risk of destruction through radia-
tion, the H-bomb would become a terrible
and perhaps decisive and usable weapon
against industrial plants and front-line
formations. It has apparently been
scaled-down to a manageable size, and,
if so, could be scaled-down more, so that
it can at least be carried by a fast
medium-bomber, if not as a ballistic
warhead.
Equal evidence of British advancement
was the statement made the other day in
London by Mr. William Strath, a
member of the British Atomic Energy
Commission, that “there is a possibility
of controlling the thermonuclear or
fusion process which occurs when iso-
topes of hydrogen are heated to tempera-
tures in the region of 100 million degrees
centigrade. We have for some time been
working actively on the problem, and a
major experimental device is nearing
completion to assist in these complex
investigations.... Research is moving
towards the frontiers of virgin territory
....We in Britain have staked out a
claim.”
If that means anything from one of
the most conservative of Britons, the
ultimate in power production for indus-
trial purposes is in sight, if still distant.
It also means that as in radar and jet-
propulsion the U.K. has moved out well
in front.
Immigration
[From Canberra]
It’s always been said that Arthur
Augustus Calwell was the architect of
our post-war immigration programme,
but, while Calwell and his Liberal suc-
cessors Holt and Townley have taken
the political bows (and sometimes blows),
the man behind the scenes has been
T. H. E. Heyes, now in his eleventh year
as permanent head of the Immigration
Department.
“Tassie” Heyes leaves Australia this
week with Mrs. Heyes for a well-deserved
overseas tour ; and the work-programme
mapped out for him promises to more
than justify the trip.
Thousands more skilled migrants from
Britain, Denmark, Holland and Germany
are expected to come to Australia as a
direct result of agreements, now in the
formative stage, which Heyes will round-
off in personal discussions.
A five-year migration agreement with
Western Germany expires in August, and
Mr. Heyes will go to Bonn to sign a new
agreement for thousands more skilled
migrants; in Denmark he will try to
persuade the Government to become a
member of the Intergovernmental Com-
mittee for European Migration, which is
subsidised by the United States and
Australia.
If Denmark does join, skilled Danes
will be able to come to Australia for less
than £3O, compared with the several
hundred pounds it costs for private travel.
In Holland, Heyes will ask the Dutch
authorities to step-up to even higher
figures the numbers of Dutch migrants
coming to Australia, and in Britain he
will take personal charge of the new
administrative machinery for the “Bring
Out a Briton” campaign.
"Democrat" in Court
Jacky Brown, as he is known so
affectionately to fellow-Communists, was
fined £25 by the Commonwealth
Industrial Court sitting in Melbourne for
threatening disadvantages to a fellow-
unionist ; and it couldn’t, as the
Americans say, have happened to a nicer
guy.
There were two charges, brought by
Edward Riley, a union-collector and
Grouper member of the A.R.U. State
executive, and the judges found Brown
(who is Federal president and Victorian
secretary), had violated the Arbitration
Act both on March 15 and March 18.
Three justices found that Brown
suggested disadvantage to Riley (who was
collecting signatures for a petition to
the Industrial Registrar to take-over a
union election) when he said at the first
meeting that “this matter could be dealt
with by the State executive, and there
could be a recommendation from this
meeting to the State executive.”
The justices also found Brown had
suggested disadvantages to Riley on the
second day by saying he supported a
motion that Riley should be removed
from his position as collector and that
he would move the motion himself at the
next meeting of the State executive ; but
no penalty was imposed for the second
offence, since both charges arose from
the one two-day meeting.
Victorians took the news of Brown’s
conviction and fine stoically. Brown
held the State secretaryship of the A.R.U.
in Victoria for 12 years from 1942 to
1954, and in this period there were
repeated stoppages and strikes, one of
which cost the railways £3-million in
revenue and railwaymen £l|-million in
wages. He was then defeated by a
Grouper, Jim Neill, but regained the job
last year by 5038 to 4201 votes on a
“unity” ticket —that is, A.L.P.-Comm.
The charges were laid under section
171 (3) of the Arbitration Act. It is a
1956 amendment designed to protect
union members who petition the
Industrial Registrar to take over a union
election. The justices did not point it
out, but the amendment provides a
penalty of a fine of £IOO or imprison-
ment for 12 months, or both ; so Brown
can hardly claim to be a martyr of the
class-war, or any other war, either.
Labor's Free Trip
One of the most remarkable episodes in
recent Australian politics is the contem-
plated trip of a delegation of members
of the Australian Federal Labor Opposi-
tion to Communist China. It is an
official Opposition venture, the tourists
chosen by party ballot.
If the Federal Opposition or the
Federal Labor party had decided to make
an independent journey of investigation
to China and to pay for it out of Aus-
tralian funds there would be nothing to
quarrel with.
But this is not the position. Dr. Evatt
has admitted that the whole of the
expenses of the journey will be paid for
by the Chinese Communist Government.
Messrs. Haylen, Clarey, Griffiths, and
Senator Arnold will not be out 6£ pocket.
They will be guests of Mao and Company
from the time they leave until they come
back.
Their findings can, of course, await
the event, but their conduct in accepting
the trip and the Opposition’s conduct in
sponsoring it can be judged on its merits.
The Opposition pretends to be a body
devoted to peace, opposed to aggression
and to violence, and loyal to the United
Nations and to the British Common-
wealth.
The Chinese Government is a Govern-
ment which ousted the existing Chinese
Government (recognised by U.N.) by
force with the aid of foreign arms. It has
undoubtedly been guilty of wholesale
illegal seizure of British property, of the
most flagrant breaches of international
law. Also, of wholesale murder of
Chinese on political grounds.
It triggered-off the Korean aggression
with Soviet Russia. It is openly engaged
in implementation of a plan for the
aggressive conquest of South-east Asia.
Its leader has said that progress can only
be made “out of the mouth of the gun.”
The bloodshed and misery caused in
Indo-China and Malaya has had the prac-
tical support of the Peking Government.
It is mainly responsible for arming
the Communist revolt in Malaya. It is,
from Labor’s standpoint, a guilty,
aggressive nation whose support made all
the advances of Vietminh possible. It
is, in fact, the negation of everything legal
and decent in international relations, the
antithesis of everything that Australian
Labor pretends to stand for.
Yet Australian Labor, hostile to the
U.K. and its ally, France, during the
Suez campaign and scornful of its own
Australian policies, is sending a body of
leading men as guests, their jaunt to be
paid for in the taels of an enemy of this
country, and lending countenance to a
Government which the United Nations
(which Dr. Evatt pretends to consider the
ultimate arbiter of every world issue)
looks on with justification as a


bloodstained outlaw State which it will
not recognise until it reforms.
Mao is not asking these trippers for
their owp benefit or for that of
Western civilisation. He is paying for
them because he thinks he will get his
money’s worth out of the venture and
because he believes that he will be able
to use them to soften-up Australian
public opinion.
New Look for Canberra
[From the A.C.T.J
At last the 1925 Burley Griffin plan for
Canberra is to be put under the.
microscope of expert opinion instead of
being subjected to piecemeal alterations
which, over the past few years, have
threatened to change the city’s layout into
an amorphous muddle.
There’s a feeling at present that
Canberra, still a beautiful tree-lined, well-
planned city, is spreading at the hips and
becoming a little tawdry. Unless drastic
steps are taken soon, faults developing
now could become built-in beyond
repair.
Timber houses built in some parts of
the northern suburbs Ainslie and
O’Connor only 10 years ago are already
sub-standard. Both these suburbs and a
section of Narrabundah, on the south
side of the city, have street after street of
almost identical dwellings, some of
which already have the well-known ear-
marks of the slum.
It’s much too late to tear these houses
down and start again, but there is still time
to remove rubble from nature-strips, plant
lawns, seal roads and give the tenants of
these Government-built houses some
reason to have civic pride.
Other features of Canberra which must
go under scrutiny are the great number
of temporary buildings (including
Parliament House) in the capital. The
only really permanent structures among
the Government buildings are the Patent
Office, a wing of the National Library,
and the almost-completed £5-million
Administrative Offices. The well-known
east and west blocks of Government
offices, each diagonally opposite Parlia-
ment House, have been “temporary” for
nearly 30 years.
Then there is the famous lakes scheme,
now apparently modified to a “ribbon of
water” in the Molonglo valley which
bisects Canberra.
Burley Griffin, the all-but-forgotten
Chicago landscape-architect who won an
international competition for his Canberra
plan, envisaged botanical gardens, an
aquarium, and a boulevard for Sunday
strolling along the lakeside.
Canberra’s growing population (34,000)
is indignant that bureaucratic muddlers
shy away from these features and give all
their attention to squeezing houses on
pocket-handkerchief blocks of land. No
one is asking for immediate decisions on
the grander aspects of Griffin’s plan;
obviously adequate housing, roads and
bridges must come first. The only
questions are whether these are being
built well and in the right places, and
whether Griffin’s imaginative ideas to
make Canberra one of the most beautiful
inland capitals in the world have been
shelved for ever.
The man who has accepted a Common-
wealth Government commission to find
out all about this is Sir William Holford,
Professor of Town Planning at the
University of London.
Sir William, who is expected to reach
Australia next month j will make a critical
examination of the Griffin plan in the
light of modern ideas; he has been asked
to recommend a balanced town-planning
programme to meet present-day needs.
Jordan Disillusioned
Jordan’s position is almost like some-
thing out of a Balkan novel. The un-
fortunate little Jordanese King Hussein
was propagandised with a heavy weight
of metal both by the Russians and
Americans until he decided to abandon
the people who had built his kingdom
for him, educated him, protected him
and stood between him and the Israelis
and other enemies.
He expelled his British military com-
mander and firm friend, Glubb Pasha.
He spurned the British subsidy—-or at
least his new Red-backed Ministers did.
He was never going to be under foreign
domination again. Out went the 10th
Hussars, without whose presence, as he
soon found, he would be in serious
trouble. In went his own commanders
and forces selected by his new Ministers.
And then the fun began.
Syrian troops moved in with Russian
arms. Everybody round about got out
his knife and prepared to carve Jordan
up.
All the surrounding Governments
grinned with anticipation ; but suddenly
it was discovered that everybody was
double-crossing everybody else.
Some of those who had been grinning
—especially the Saudis and the Irakis—
found out in the middle of the schemozzle
that Jordan was “the centre of a sub-
versive conspiracy prepared by the agents
of international Communism” and that
it was “also aimed at annihilating the
Saudi, Iraki and Libyan regimes.”
“A 1 Urdon,” Amman’s local “S. M.
Herald,” discovered that as far back as
January, 1956, Nasser and his diplomats
had decided at a conference to overthrow
Hussein in Jordan, Faisal in Irak, Saud in
Saudi Arabia, establishing republics in
those countries under the leadership of
the Egyptian Republic—which isn’t a
republic, but a brutal one-man dictator-
ship without a Parliament, or even a
Cabinet that answers the ordinary
definition of the word.
This decision, according to the Jor-
danian official press, was taken with the
blessing of Moscow, which undertook to
train spies and agents for the work and
set-up a committee to carry it out with
the spearhead in Syria. This committee
included the Russian Vice-Consul and
military attache at Beirut and the senior
Jordanian officers who were responsible
for the coup against the British.
The implementing of the plot to over-
throw Hussein and to prepare the double-
cross against Saud and Irak was preceded
by a meeting between senior Jordanian
officers and the Russian Ambassador at
Damascus which perfected the details
of the revolt, which was to be financed
from Egypt, whose agent “handed to the
traitor Major-General Ali Abu Nawar a
“large sum of money.” Hussein was to
be assassinated. In April the Soviet
agents prepared for Syrian intervention
supported by MIG aircraft bearing the
Syrian emblem but piloted by Russians.
This is the official Jordan version. But
the conspirators reckoned without
Hussein, who got wind of the business
and acted with promptness. He is now
willing to accept U.S. financial aid.
Meanwhile, the Kings of Saud, Irak
and Jordan have met at Baghdad to make
an economic agreement on oil, and pre-
sumably they have gone into a huddle
to save their necks.
Gus Kelly Rides Again
Like his more famous namesake who,
according to tradition, knew what he was
doing when he was robbing a coach,
N.S.W. Chief Secretary Gus Kelly wants
there to be no doubt that when there’s a
fire in progress he’s running the fire-
brigade.
Last year when Chief Fire Com-
missioner Thomas Januarius Smith
declined to retire from his post before
the end of the period of his statutory
appointment, Gus changed his mind for
him by legislating for a compulsory
retiring-age. At the same time, when the
majority of the members of the Board
of Fire Commissioners failed to see eye-
to-eye with the trade-union representative
on the board, Kelly amended the Act
to reduce insurance-company and local-
government representation, despite the
fact that the bulk of the board’s finance
comes from those sources.
Last year the Board of Fire Com-
missioners—then of eight members —
recommended the appointment of H. W.
Pye as Chief Fire Officer. The Chief
Secretary refused to send the recommen-
dation to the Governor, saying that the
decision should await the consideration
of the new board.
In due course the new board —which
now consists of a Government-appointed
chairman, L. Duff, and one representative
each of the insurance-companies, local-
government, the Fire Brigades Union and
the volunteer brigades—considered the
appointment and by a 3-2 majority
decision approved Pye, who had been
Acting Chief Officer. The minority, con-
sisting of the chairman and the union
representative, favored J. McGrath, at
present Deputy Chief Officer.
Mr. Kelly, although pledged to a party
which claims at all times to believe in
majority rule, doesn’t seem to think it
should apply to fire-brigades. He’s on
the side of the minority, as he was last
year when he refused to accept toe
decision of the old board. It’s just a
coincidence, of course, that the minority
on both occasions happens- to be the
voice of the Fire Brigades Union.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
MOTHER’S DAY around our way
produced the excuse from a husband
who let his wife bring him a cup of
tea in bed: “Anyway, you’re not my
mother”; and a little girl's reply to a
question: “Mother’s Day is when we
thank our mother for what she’s done to
us.” —“Nunk.”
♦> ♦> ♦♦♦
“Kate”: In the bedding department of
a large (Melb.) store I stared goggle-eyed
at a circular bed. It had a circular,
padded support with a circular inner-
spring mattress on top, all beautifully
covered in heavy gold satin. “Would
you have to have round blankets and
sheets? How would you keep the pillows
on?” I asked the salesman. “Don’t ask
me, madam. All I can say is, it might be
all right where there are lots of little
kids. They could sleep heads out, feet
to the middle.” I wondered: if you had
lots of little kids would you be able to
pay £l6O for that mattress and support?
♦> ❖ ❖
“Tom Trout”: When I first hit the
Mediterranean littoral, I kept an Anti-
podean eye open for those travelled gum-
trees I’d read about —and the first I saw
was lounging sardonically on a street-
corner in the middle of Juan-les -Pins!
1 suppose “Juan-le-Gum” Wouldn’t sound
so classy.
“Bradie”: Our town-character is
known as “Uneven”—addicted to metho
and surname Keel.
❖ * *
“Narumee”: An American monthly, in
its “Ideas for Homebuilders” section,
recommends placing the laundry in the
hall, adding that it is a “midway point”
for the collection of the dirty clothes. I
suspect modern architects of conspiring
to make the housewife’s life a 24-hour-day
of harassment. Vast windows necessitate
constant tidying of terribly-visible living-
areas, and the division of the kitchen from
the dining-area by only a few shelves
draped with pot-plants means that the
housewife’s preparations for the meal are
as public as shop-window demonstrations.
Now she will be no longer able to give
“I was in the laundry” as an excuse for
not answering the telephone or the door-
bell !
❖ ❖ ❖
“Rob”: As to daughters in business, in
1939 Warrnambool, Victoria, could boast
a pharmacist’s owned by Sambell, Son
and Granddaughter. True to family
tradition this should now include Great-
granddaughter.
❖ •> »>
“Geep”: “Miss M.’s” passing reference
to Parer (B. 24/4/’57) recalled our one
meeting. A mob of us, civvie-clad but
potential ACl’s, arrived at Melbourne
University for an Air Force A. and S.D.
course. The sarge called the roll, and
a quiet little cove next to me answered to
“Parer, Raymond.” “Blime,” I thought,
“if he’s a rookie, wha«t am I?” I needn't,
have worried, though. Parer remained
just long enough for the equipment-officer
to fit him with a two-wing, two-ring blue
suit, while the rest of us stayed on to
qualify as engineering and other types
by pounding, breathless and wingless,
round the Uni. oval in the foggy dawns
of a Melbourne July.
»> <♦ '
“Zake”: Returning to Sydney from
the Blue Mountains at night, I hit my
first dog in 21 years of motoring. Chased
by another pooch, it shot suddenly
straight at the car, and there were two
terrific bumps. 1 pulled up, as did
another member of the family in another
car about 100yds. behind. He reported
that the victim had got up, shaken itself
and, limping only slightly, whizzed off
into the thick scrub. The bitumen bore
no gore, yet 23cwt. of steel had hit that
approximate 30-pounder at 35 m.p.h.
That lucky dog had gone between the
two on-side wheels and ricocheted off
the rounded sump, and so twice missed
being run over.
❖ ❖ <♦
“R.M.”: “Saaedi” (B. 20/3/’57)
reminds me that plum-jam and plum-and-
apple tins marked the sojourn of our
battalion on the Western Front for years.
But other units fared worse. When we
relieved a Tommy regiment at Messines
I found myself posted at a bombing-block
with the enemy temporarily sharing our
trench. This prompted me to ask ques-
tions: “Was there any barbed-wire
between the enemy’s bombing-block and
ours? Was the enemy within reach of
hand-grenades?” The Tommies ignored
my inquiries. They considered Austra-
lians responsible for quince-jam, and in
the brief time at their disposal they didn’t
intend to allow questions of less import
to spoil this opportunity to vent their
spleen.
“Boy, that Was a cracking party you bunged on last night."
SIMILAR BUILDINGS
“Mr. Cahill said he wouldn’t ask the State
A.L.P. Conference next month to be the arbiter
on the Opera House Appeal.”
Maybe the sketches offer evidence
Of a roof half-buckled, half-inflated,
As though some A.L.P. conference
Had been there pre-dated;
Maybe its division into two halls
Is a little undecided,
But that’s no reason for catcalls
From those whose house is divided:
Even though appeals for building it may
be
All talk and no do,
What, militant fathers of the A.L.P.,
Is unusual about that, to you ?
To those the thought of opera arouses
The public has . . . well, sympathy to
give;
But people in political glass-houses
Would be better off at the Tiv.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


UAREFUL investigation
revealed a few sparse
hairs scattered about his ears,
but for the rest his head was a
bare, pink, gleaming waste.
“Don’t bother about the ‘Mr.
Smith,’ ” he protested. “Every-
body calls me Curly.”—
“Kenyas.”
i +J-
“C.W.S.”: The Dagwood
strip is often praised because
its characters' are permitted to
age, so that the children have
passed from babyhood through
all stages to zoot-suits and jeans
with horsetail hair-do’s. That’s
all very well, but their dogs and
pups haven’t ever grown-up,
which may well make them the
most typical Americans in the
strip.
♦t* +£♦
“Ranji”: Replacing Rock-
’n’-Roll, a new dance-craze,
Kiss and Cuddle, is catching on
in Britain. The simple idea is
that you dance four bars, then
kiss four bars. Then, I suppose,
it’s da capo al fin, but if it pro-
ceeds beyond eight bars it
should get better as it goes on.
“Emtee”: Following the first record
of a half-hour session called “Mostly
Music,” a disk-jockey on my favorite
radio-station diffused a commercial that
lasted 2min. 15sec. Four other commer-
cials, punctuated with further records,
averaged around the two-minute mark,
and made me shudder to think what might
happen if the jockey were ever let loose
with a session called “Mostly Ear-
bashing.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Geep”: I was rebuked in these
columns some time ago for a critical
reference to the origin of haggis. More
recently, I’ve read of a cove renowned
for his bravery who was “as full of guts
as a haggis.” Now “R.M.” (B. 24/4/’57)
reckons it smells like garlic. To arms,
Mac!
* *
“Croid”: The mother was horrified to
hear her small son inform a man at the
front door that she was “in the toilet.”
“When anyone asks for me again,” she
said, “you mustn’t say where I am.” A
few days later another visitor called.
“Where’s your, mother?” he asked. “I
won’t tell y’!” said the boy.
♦> ♦> ❖
“Tim”: Mr. Lean, Melbourne
Stadium boss, must be humming “I Have
Found That Long-lost Goldmine in the
Sky.” The Italian boxers are solidly
supported by the large community of
fellow-countrymen in Melbourne ; good
houses all the time Italians appear. The
Italian barracking is usually the chanting
of the boxer’s first name in unison—very
effective. A Friday bill: main event,
“P erhaps I am a little old-fashioned, Emmeline, but I wouldn't be seen
dead in that outfit .”
Bruno Visintin; four rounds: Mario
Giglitto; novices, Joe Squadritto, Joe
Malito, Status Lampysus, Friezzieta
Salvator, Longo, Tarquinia. One four-
round: Young Nasser v. Mickey Nile.
“Ranji”: Many people believe we
posties walk into the p.o. at 8-9 a.m., pick
up our bags of mail and start delivery.
They don’t realise that it takes .two to
three hours to sort the mail into rounds,
“throw-off” into streets, and set-up in
order of delivery. A woman on my round
said, “You started early this morning,
postie. I saw you on the way to work
at 6.45 a.m.” She was surprised when I
told her that, after sleeping-in, I was
actually 30 minutes late!
“McAlec”: As one who occasionally
allows himself the diversion of playing
the horses, I have often been disconcerted
by the odd little code-words on totalisator-
tickets —especially when the steed which
I have elected to carry my humble invest-
ment doesn’t raise a gallop, and the
code-word on my ticket is, I discover,
something like “EGG.” However, with
the jackpot-tote imminent, whereby I am
tempted to elect the first five winners on
an afternoon’s programme, I shall con-
sider it just if, when I have failed to select
even the first, I later discover that the
code-word is “PUNK.”
♦> ♦>
“Doric”: Always wanted to see the
famous Fountains of Versailles. Arriving
in Paris on a Sunday morning, I went to
the Palace that afternoon, but there was
not a dribble of water exuding onto the
lake. They told me the fountains played
for one hour every fourth Sunday after-
noon! After travelling 13,000 miles I’d
picked the wrong Sunday.
❖ * *
“Q. Ree”: Advertisers modify their
approach according to the locality; in
Fiji, a soap-advertiser says it is popular
with the film-stars, “including the lovely
Indian stars.” And in an Indian paper
printed in English, in drawings adver-
tising a well-known beef-extract, the
characters had English names and spoke
English, but were Indian women dressed
in traditional saris.
A ♦♦♦
V V V
“Ardoyne”: A lover of change and
variety who has had several vehicles in
the past five or six years has swapped an
almost-new bus for another about three
years old. Fie and his wife are drive-in-
tncatre addicts, and they found the
modern bucket-seats less comfortable
after a coup.e of hours’ motionless
sitting—hence the change to a single,
roomy seat.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Lorna Doone”: I offered my nephew
a cigarette —he’s been smoking since he
was three years old. To my surprise he
said he’d given it up now he was fifteen
(and pretty hefty at that). Later I
noticed he looked at the box longingly,
so I said “Aren’t you making out too
well without the smokes?” “Well,” he
drawled, “it does itch me sometimes!”


]\/fY two sons were helping me with„
-*-*■*■ the washing-up. “Don't thintc
I'll get married,” said the eight-year-old.
“I’m going to be a pilot, and they don’t
have wives at Richmond.” “Don’t be
silly,” cut in the much-travelled five-year-
old ; “pilots don’t have wives—they have
hostesses! ” —“M.8.8.”
<£♦
“Maitri”: A businesswoman, fed-up
with buying flowers for her pint-sized
flat, bought a tropical monsteria. She'd
no sooner given it pride of place in her
9ft.-by-9ft. sitting-room when her firm
sent her abroad on a buying-trip. The
trip was extended and she was away
twice as long as she expected, but a
neighbor had promised to water her
plant, and she didn't worry. Home again,
she let herself into the flat and then
rubbed her eyes: the monsteria had lived
up to its name and its huge, perforated
leaves now pretty well took up all the
space there was. It was either it or her,
so she carved off the leaves and sent
them to church, where they were received
with joy and gladness as decorations for
the Harvest Thanksgiving. Two of her
men-friends consigned what was left to
the garden, and she finished-up with a
pot of safe and modest maidenhair.
V *> *s*
“Tackline S.”: Weird blokes, garbos.
I dumped a rusty toaster and there was
a wild scramble to salvage it atop the
garbo van. Later. I had gas installed
“Well—you insisted on a seven—yon know
you take a six-and-ihree-quarler .”
"No, plastic raincoats aren't hotter than fabric ones if you don't. ..."
and invited identical garbos to acquire a
reasonably good electric stove. They
went into a huddle. One insisted it was
against the rules to go to the back of a
house. Sullenly, two of his mates col-
lected the stove and treated it as if the
couple of quid it could fetch was of no
consequence. But if 1 leave a few
penn'orth of dead marines outside they're
almost wet-nursed.
“Metax”: “She was a won-
derful woman,” he told me
with much confidence ;
“she's reared a family of
eight and still has the
original key of the back-
door!”
* * *
“Harbel”: Whether a
youth is a quiet, respectable
young fellow or a lout, lair,
larrikin or bodgie seems to
be largely a matter of the
relation of his footwear to
the bottoms of his trousers.
It has been thus for as long
as I can remember, but in
some remarkable manner
there has come about a
complete reversal. 1 dis-
tinctly remember denounc-
ing an Oxford - bagged
fellow-youth: “Nobody but
a lair would wear pants like
that—why, I betcha he
could change ’em without
taking his boots off!” Now
we hear scathingly: “A
bodgie—he'd have to take
his shoes off to change those
pants.” But that charge
could not be brought against
the young bodgie I saw in
Sydney recently—he had
zip-fasteners on each ankle-
cnokmg trouser-cuff.
ON THE CHEAP
“A Sydney clergyman has acknowledged in
his parish paper the receipt of 10s. conscience-
money sent anonymously.”
Soliloquising Hamlet said
Conscience makes cowards of us all.
Though far from it you think you’ve fled,
Insistently its voice will call.
Its nuisance, though, you may abate,
Or even still the cry forever:
Your peccadilloes estimate
In terms of pelf; then expiate
By coughing-up—no great endeavor !
The beauty of the thing is this:
You set your own price on your sin;
So any doubt you may dismiss
That penalty is genuine.
Don’t be a mug and make it high —
By prudence you would best be guided.
An equal ease of mind you’ll buy
if bargain-rate you specify,
As this anonymous bloke decided.
That conscience opens many a purse
The Tax Commissioner can attest ;
Donors aren’t in his sight perverse —
All’s grist to that mill, I’d suggest!
And likewise some who ride by train
But buy no ticket at the station.
Will strike-off grim Remorse’s chain.
But rare the kirk that makes a gain
From someone’s tardy reparation.
Had he pretended to a doze
What time the offertory-plate
Was being thrust beneath his nose ?
Or did a dinkum snooze dictate
His need to buy his mind some balm?
His evil may have been much blacker —
Parodying, perhaps, a psalm.
Whatever it was, he takes the palm
For offering, without a qualm,
A miserable half a smacker!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


?p y &^v*yroy 00 " //
A USE FOR EVERYTHING


POLITICAL POINTS
At the Paddo rally the Doc. said there
could be no such thing as a “Right”
Labor party. The way things are going
there soon won’t be much left, either.
• •
Sydney aldermen will soon be the most
travelled City Fathers in the world. The
argument for these jaunts to America, to
New Zealand and (in the case of Lord
Mayor Jensen) around the world, is that
they help to equip the aldermen for the
important decisions they have to make
in managing the affairs of the city. Yet
on ail the really big questions that arise
they still have to take their orders from
their untravelled masters at the Trades
Hall.
• •
School history-books used to picture
the situation in England at the commence-
ment of the Wars of the Roses (“I’m for
York.” “I’m for Lancaster.” “I’ll take
the white rose.” “I’ll wear the red.”)
rather as if it was a matter of picking
sides for a game. Something of the same
picture is presented in Queensland Labor
circles at present. One party branch will
declare for Gair; another for the Q.C.E.
A third will split down the middle, with
half going each way. Both Gair and
Duggan claim that supporters are rallying
to their flag in thousands. Bukowski, of
course, aspires to the role of Warwick
the Kingmaker.
• •
Senator Ashley was in the wrong
ocean when he asked at question-time in
the Senate:
What effect will the proposed nuclear tests
have upon the phosphate deposits on
Christmas Island, in which Britain, Australia
and New Zealand are vitally interested?
What steps have-been taken to protect these
deposits?
The answer to both these questions was
“None.” The phosphate Christmas Island
is in the Indian Ocean; the H-bomb
Christmas Island is 6000 miles away in the
Pacific.
Still, the old Senator wasn’t much
further away from reality than his Parlia-
mentary leader is on the subject of nuclear
tests.
• •
Reports that Elvis Presley has signed
a Hollywood contract at the highest
figure ever paid for a single film makes
one wonder whether all this concern at
the possible extinction of the human race
by nuclear warfare is really worth while.
• •
Westralian pressure on Canberra for
establishment of a naval base on the
Indian Ocean coast (B. 8/ 5 / ’57) is con-
tinuing. The claims of Darwin are
admitted, but it is suggested that Darwin
must always be a fighting base, vulner-
able to close attack, whereas Cockburn
Sound would be more defensible as a
base to be used for all naval needs. Not
that a W.A. base would necessarily be
sited there. Admiral Collins, who should
know something about the subject, can't
understand why anyone should seriously
consider Cockburn Sound when Albany
is available.
• •
A woman missionary told the Brisbane
“Courier-Mail” that among the abos. in
North Queensland there’s a law which
says a man must never marry a woman
who speaks the same language as himself.
It might save a lot of domestic
strife if the law was made universal.
• •
Gair is still using “incomplete rolls”
as an argument against an early election.
Opposition parties and official Labor have
been urging a poll some time in July, or,
at the latest, August 3, but Gair is thought
to favor September. He may change his
mind before Parliament meets on June
11 —several of his henchmen are reported
to hold that the earlier the poll the better
the chances of the Gair party.
• •
Fadden was asked whether in preparing
his Budget he’d consider making fares
to and from work an allowable deduction
for income-tax purposes. He said he’d
think it over, but that this item had always
been regarded as a private or domestic
expense. Maybe it has, but there is a
case for considering it as an “expense in-
curred in earning taxable income,” especi-
ally nowadays when domicile is often
not so much a matter of choice as of
circumstance.
• •
Copra and other coconut products are
still the chief exportable crop of Papua
and New Guinea, but rubber, cocoa and
coffee are coming into the picture. Paul
Hasluck, Minister for Territories, giving
the House the figures for last year, said
that rubber exports, at 3793 tons, were
more than double the pre-war figure;
cocoa exports (1290 tons) showed a five-
fold increase on the early post-war years
and coffee, as yet a minor item (170 tons),
had doubled the previous year’s total.
Coconut products exported totalled
96,500 tons, an increase of 4500 tons on
1954-55. Village growers were respon-
sible for about one-fifth of this.
• •
Evatt wants to know whether the
Formosan-tea deal will involve any dollar
payments. He expressed no such
curiosity about Formosan petrol.
• •
Following a report that shirts, expected,
to retail at 13s. 2d., were to be imported
from Japan, H. Trinnick, chairman of
the Made in Australia Council, expressed
the fears of the trade that there
a flood of low-priced imports from Japan.
He said that by virtue of its new member-
ship of GATT Japan might receive most-
favored-nation treatment if a?.d when the
proposed Australian-Japanese trade treaty
was signed. Australian tariffs were based
on the relative competitive position of
Australia and Britain, and both countries
could suffer from competition from
countries with lower standards of living
and wages.
• •
A solar heater is used by Redcliffe (Q.)
Council to heat the showers at the muni-
cipal beach pavilion at Scarborough. The
type of unit used was devised by
C.5.1.R.0. and involves an arrangement
of glass-and-copper-sheets and copper-
tubes in a wooden frame. C.5.1.R.0.
makes blueprints and data available to
interested individuals or companies, and
the device is said to be simple enough to
be installed by the handyman. Function
of the heater is to carry the main load
of providing year-round hot-water, but in
winter it needs an electrical or other
booster.
• •
“In the ACT”: Total cost of Britain’s
expanded programme of atomic-power
development will be £9OO million. This
will include £uel for the nineteen nuclear-
power stations, and is, of course, only
part of the cost of the gigantic develop-
ment programme, which by 1965 will
have cost £3,350 million stg. In that year
power from the atom will do the work of
about 18 million tons of coal. What will
be Australia’s atomic-power achieve-
ment by then? Anything at all?
• •
“Lobby”: Webb, Labor M.H.R. for
Stirling (W.A.), came no closer to un-
ravelling the mystery of the “Ghost
Road”—a reputed 1000-mile bitumen
speedway going from nowhere to nowhere
in the vicinity of Maralinga and the
remote desert country beyond. Some say
the road has been laid secretly so that
scientists can plot accurately the route
of guided-missiles launched from
Woomera. The idea is that with mobile
units stationed at the alert along the road
quick recovery of electronic equipment
will be possible, eliminating much tedious
and arduous desert travel. It is said that
the new roadway—reported to be almost
completed—is a major attraction to U.S.
scientists, who are sick of losing so many
guided-missiles in the Atlantic after
firing them from Florida. Woomera can
provide about 1000 miles of flat, desert
country with unrivalled visibility.
However, Supply Minister Beale says
the only road contemplated in the area
is a “track,” running from Maralinga to
the meteorological station at Giles in the
Rawlinson Ranges. He told the Reps,
last week there was no intention of
extending the track in a north-westerly
direction.
Still, a number of New Australians and
Old Australians working in the desert for
months past say they have helped to build
a mystery road.


One can imagine Bob, sitting-up in bed
and reading the morning paper: “First
it was Japanese ’flu; now it’s Chinese
tea! ”
• •
Dr. Coombs, governor of the Com-
monwealth Bank, told a management con-
ference in Brisbane, “We have too many
worries.” Some folk would include Dr.
Coombs in the list.
• . •'
Gair had a crowded meeting at Rock-
hampton when he gave what really
amounted to a policy speech. He was
on strong ground when he said that “only
an idiot wculd see in the Labor-party
dispute throughout Australia a simple
issue like three-weeks’ leave.” He said
the A.L.P. was now controlled by “a
bunch of ruthless, power-hungry totali-
tarians and their dupes” who had thrown
away all democratic practice and were
out to achieve a totalitarian State.
Of Duggan’s defection from Cabinet
Gair said, “Here was a man who endorsed
everything the Government did until the
date of my crooked expulsion.... there-
after claiming that it was all bad.”
• •
It may sound like a yarn, but the name
of the head of the syndicate that is
developing Northern Territory ricefields,
recently suffering from the depredations
of wild geese, is Chase.
• •
Nye Bevan’s refusal to attack Foreign
Secretary Selwyn Lloyd in the Suez
debate was more devastating than some
of his most vituperative attacks have been.
His comment was, “There’s no need to
attack the monkey when the organ-
grinder is present.”
• •
N. S. Wales Housing Commission
seems determined to press its plan for a
satellite town at Minto, where it has
frozen nine square miles of good farm-
land at present used for dairying. Gallop,
chairman of the commission, says the
si f e is an ideal one because it is halfway
between Sydney and Port Kembla on a
first-class highway. That doesn’t explain.
wh> good dairying land is to be urbanised
when inferior land lying idle near by
would suit the Housing Commission’s
plans equally well.
• •
The unidentified flying object reported
over southern Victoria, Tasmania and
Bass Strait on Sunday night was not
Dr. Evatt. He was headed in the opposite
direction.
• •
Sometime next month, in Geneva, the
1.L.0. will discuss education and train-
ing requirements for the technological
revolution. The report of the director-
general of 1.L.0. on the subject urges
that technological advance and educa-
tional advance should go hand-in-hand,
and that education in the automatic-
atomic age must be improved in quality
and broadened in scope and outlook. But
who’s going to educate the 1.L.0.?
• •
Queensland is to ask the Loan Council
for special loans to develop the Cape
York Peninsula bauxite deposits and to
rebuild the Mt. Isa railway. Attempts to
get the States to agree to a priority list
for loan-works have always failed, but
at various Premiers’ conferences most
southern Premiers have expressed recog-
nition of the national importance of
developing North Queensland. It will be
interesting to see whether they are pre-
pared to give more than lip-service to
this principle when Gair and Walsh put
their case.
• •
First men in N. S. Wales to be fined
for playing “chicken” —they were con-
victed at Wollongong last week —weren’t
motorists and they weren’t teenagers.
They were two men in the late thirties
who deliberately stepped in front of a
motor-lorry, causing it and following
vehicles to brake suddenly. In a resultant
collision a motor-cyclist was injured. The
magistrate commented that it was appar-
ently “some chicken idea” and that both
men were old enough to know better.
They should be wiser now. The experi-
ence cost them each a £5 fine and £5 17s.
costs.
• •
Tea’s down, meat’s down, petrol’s
down —what’s up?
• •
The Government is determined to go
ahead with a new plan in which National
Service trainees will get a solid grounding
in civil defence. In the event of World
War 111 they will be the counterparts of
last war’s air-raid wardens. The scheme,
still in the “thinking” stages, will go a
little way towards appeasing Liberal
backbenchers who have claimed that the
Government is ignoring the importance
of civil defence in this atomic age ; it
represents something of a Cabinet
somersault, as the previously un-
announced (because of its obvious un-
popularity with the masses) policy was
based on the impracticability of defence
of any description against atomic attack.
• •
Those Queensland rolls! Explaining
that he was under an obligation to the
public to see that the electoral rolls were
in as good a state as Was humanly pos-
sible, Gair said, “Every elector is entitled
to the franchise and he will be given his
proper rights.” That’s fair enough, but
in the past there have been strong sus-
picions that in the case of some Labor
electors the proper rights are extended too
far—even beyond the electorate and
beyond the grave.
• •
It had been thought that a Right-wing
Labor man would be included in the team
for the trip to China, but the whole four
chosen are Evatt supporters, three of
them from N. S. Wales (Haylen, Griffiths
and Senator Arnold) and one (Clarey)
from Victoria.
MORE HANDBAG TROUBLE!
[In N.S.W. legislation is proposed which will make wealthy women liable to pay alimony to
impecunious ex-husbands.]


PERSONAL ITEMS
On May 28, Melbourne’s Professor
A. R. Chisholm is to open a distinctly
unusual sort of show at the Tasmanian
Tourist Bureau Gallery in Collins-street —
an exhibition of old Bulletineer Alan D.
Mickle’s books and paintings ! The
painting is quite a recent line, but
already Alan has got more £ s. d. by it
than from any of his books ! The books,
of course, go back a fair distance : there
will be close on 40 of the various editions
of them in the exhibition, along with
more than 40 paintings. and many
personal items.
These last include a letter dated March
21, 1905, which he received from the
then editor of The Bulletin referring
to the first poem he had sent to this
address, and with it a rejection-slip
from an English magazine referring to a
verse he had submitted there —the usual
formal words, with the addendum : “We
hate verse however good. The Editor.”
Alan’s first full-sized book, The Great
Longing, was published in 1910; his
latest-printed, Many A Mickle, got to
the bookshops in 1953 ; and he has just
finished a full-scale autobiography.
• •
C. C. Jenkins, recently appointed
Queensland secretary of the British
Medical Association, is a sponsored
British migrant who has been in Australia
only a matter of months. He hails from
Hastings (Sussex), where he’s been con-
nected with hospital and social-welfare
work for more than 20 years. Now 44,
he served with the R.A.F. in World War
11. He was the lucky one from among 70
applicants from N.S.W. and Queensland.
• •
This year’s winner of the Metro-
politan District Rifle Clubs championship
at Swanbourne (W.A.), Major W. H.
Hackfath has been shooting since he
notched his first bull as a school-cadet,
58 years ago. He tied for the King’s
Prize at Bisley (U.K.) in 1923, won the
King’s at Swanbourne (W.A.) in 1929, and
the King’s Medal for the best shot in the
Australian Military Forces at Long Bay in
1930. He shot at animated targets in
France, where he served with the 11th
Bn., and won a D.C.M. at Passchendaele.
He retired from the Army in 1946 to
take-over the job of Supervisor of Rifle
Clubs, Western Command, and since
1950 has been secretary of the N.R.A.
in Westralia.
® •
Sydney-born Bill Grids, who has held
down the much-travelled job of N. S.
Wales secretary for the Australian Board
of Missions for the past five years, has
decided to call it a day and go back to
parish work. He has gone to the mining
parish of Cessnock. Prior to taking over
his mission job, in 1952, Bill Childs
worked as a rector in the Wangaratta
and Gippsland areas in Victoria. In 1954
he went on a fact-finding tour of Singa-
pore and Borneo for the Board of
Missions, and on return was also
appointed Sydney representative for the
Bishop of Borneo
• •
Herewith John Weeks, probably New
Zealand’s best-known artist. All the main
N.Z. galleries, and a number of overseas
galleries, have selections of his work in
oil, tempera and watercolor, and he has
exhibited at the Royal Academy, London,
and at Scotland’s Royal Academy. He
has an extraordinary sense of color
harmony and in his rolling landscapes
achieves a remarkable chiaroscuro effect.
A versatile painter, he has experimented
ARTIST
with semi-abstractions, but his reputation
rests solidly on his New Zealand land-
scapes.
He was severely gassed in World War
I (he suffers from the effects to this
day), but apparently his taste for
adventure wasn’t dimmed. He went on
a painting trip through forbidden terri-
tory in Morocco, including wild parts of
the Atlas Mountains, in the ’twenties
disguised as a Berber. Most of the
paintings and drawings which came from
this experience (some of his best work)
were lost in the Elam School of Arts
fire some 10 or 12 years ago. An
exhibition of Weeks’s work recently
toured New Zealand: on opening-day,
in Auckland, £lOOO-worth of paintings
were sold.
The Australian Academy of Science has
five new Fellows:
Dr. R. S. Andrews, chairman and managing-
director of the Gas and Fuel Corporation of
Victoria, who is distinguished for his contribu-
tions to chemical engineering, especially in the
field of fuel-technology.
Dr. E. G. Bowen, Chief of the C.5.1.R.0.’s
Radio Physics Division, distinguished for his
contributions to the development of radar and
radio aids to navigation.
Dr. M. Glaessner, Reader in Geology and
Palaeontology at the University of Adelaide;
known, particularly, for his work on
palaeontology.
Professor R. K. Morton, Professor of Agri-
cultural Chemistry at the University of Adelaide;
distinguished for his contributions to
enzymoiogy, and to the biochemistry of sub-
cellular particles, particularly the microsomes.
Professor R. H. Stokes, Professor of
Chemistry at the University of New England;
distinguished for his work on the electro-
chemistry of salt-solutions.
• •
“Allan B.”: Chorus-master of the
Sydney Conservatorium Opera School,
J. Lyndon Jonfcs, has been selected as the
chief vocal-and-choral judge for Aus-
tralia’s topline contests in the South-
street (Ballarat) competitions later in the
year. He also conducts the Sydney Male
' Choir and the Sydney Central Methodist
Choir, as well as being an examiner for
A.M.E.B. One of hts pupils won the
Sydney Aria in 1953.
Conductor of the Adelaide Harmony
' Choir, Lewis Dawe, will judge the junior
vocal- and choral-sections, Donald
Britton, conductor of the Melbourne
University Choral Society, will judge the
pianoforte sections.
The Victorian Government has given
a grant of £l5OO towards the South-street
contests.
• •
Recently elected Federal president of
the U.L.V.A., Sydney M. Johnston was
W.A. president for 17 years. Member of
an old Westralian family and brother of
former Senator, the late Bertie Johnston,
S.M.J. was with the 10th Light Horse in
Palestine, and has been president of the
10th L.H. Association.
• •
Thomas Reginald Toovey, who has
passed on in Sydney at 78, came here iq,
1937 as the Port of London Authority’s
representative in Australia and New
Zealand, with a great reputation as an
organiser. His work as secretary of the
committee appointed by the Government
to direct latror on the docks at a critical
period in World War I had earned him
an M.8.E., and his plans for the defence
of London against aircraft attack had
been adopted in all ports in Britain.
Immediately prior to the appointment
which brought him here, he had been
assistant to the Authority’s g.-m.
A Freeman of the City of London, he
was a close friend of the Rev. P. B.
(“Tubby”) Clayton, founder of Toe H
in France, was a foundation-member of
the movement when it started in London,
and was a warden of All Hallows,
Berkynge-chirche,, the Toe H church in
London.
In 1943 Sir Thomas Gordon, Director
of Shipping, was asked by the British
Ministry of War Transport to handle
crews’ mail this end, and it was put to


Toovey that he was the right man for
the job—an important one, as few things
are as destructive of morale in war-time
as delayed or lost mail. In addition to
his Port of London duties, Toovey took
on the formidable job, dividing his
working-hours between his own office in
Loftus-street and a room in the Birt
building, Bridge-street, and working in
close collaboration with the P.M.G.
Department, Censorship, and the Navy
Board. Soon the system was working
smoothly, and a potential bump of trouble
was ironed-out.
• •
Ralph Abercrombie, 0.8. E., who has
passed on in Melbourne, began his career
in the Victorian State Treasury, but in
1911 became chief accountant of the
newly-established Navy Office. In War I
his branch kept check on the finances of
Australian warships wherever they were,
and, in addition, controlled 74 chartered
transports and 12 ex-enemy ships which
the Navy used for cargo-carrying. The
Naval Historian’s comment:
These large trading operations, as well
as those involved in the transport of troops,
were brought to account in the Navy
Office, the supervision of this task (a most
unusual one for such a department) falling
almost entirely on the Director of Navy
Accounts, Mr. Ralph Abercrombie.
He was Civil Member of the Naval
Board from 1923 to 1938, when he
became Commonwealth Auditor-General,
retiring in 1946. Jim Abercrombie, who
looks after The Bulletin’s “Wild Cat”
pages, is a nephew.
• •
Noel Madison, producer and star of
“The Diary of Anne Frank,” the current
and arresting drama at Sydney Royal, is
so well known that it seems almost super-
fluous to recall that he is the son of the
late Maurice Moscovitch, with whom he toured
Australia in the late ’twenties in such items
as “The Merchant of Venice,” “The Outsider,”
“The Great Lover,” “The Ringer,” “The
Terror,” “The Silent House,” “Trilby,” and
“They Knew What They Wanted.”
It is probably also well enough known that
Madison pegged a claim in Hollywood in 1929
ACTOR-PRODUCER
and worked it for about 110 gangster films,
playing with practically every studio in the
film-capital. Here he might claim some part
in the capture of American gangster Dillinger.
In “Manhattan Melodrama,” with William
Powell and Clark Gable, Madison played the
screen-role of Dillinger. The gangster him-
self was so fascinated with the film that he
saw it again and again and again, a habit which
finally filtered through to the police. They
set a watch at a theatre where the film was
showing and, in due course, scythed the gangster
down with lead in a lane beside the film-
house.
These days Madison has his own TV-produc-
ing business in Los Angeles, but he has never
let go of his interest in legit. When Aus-
tralian entrepreneur Garnet H. Carroll asked
him to- produce “The Diary of Anne Frank”
for an Australian season he dropped a whole
bagful of work to head for these parts.
• •
“P.A.L.”: When Tom Mills died
last year, at 90, I thought he was the last
of the Pat Nolan-Malcolm Ross school
of pioneeer N.Z. journalists. Another is
now revealed: he is Bill Thomas, 87 this
month, who has been an active news-
paperman for 67 years. He still does an
eight-to-five-day, with an occasional
night meeting. He takes a clear short-
hand note, an asset to him when he
joined the Dunedin “Evening Herald”
(established and edited by Tom Bracken)
in 1890. A quarter of a century later,
Thomas had his own paper, the “Press”
at Taumarunui. A few years ago he gave
the editorial chair to his son, to whom he
now diligently hands his daily haul of
copy.
• •
“Judee”: Dead at 82, Edward Burns
(Teddy) Harkness, C.M.G., former
Under-Secretary of the N.S.W. Premier’s
Department. He enjoyed the regard of
politicians of all parties, and many of
them sought his advice on ticklish ques-
tions of administration and procedure.
• •
J. Pledge, who fed admirals and other
v.i.p.s during his 30 years’ service in the
R.A.N., now runs the catering service of
the newest type drive-in theatre in a
Perth suburb. He began his service in the
supply-section in 1932, transferred to
catering, and was senior catering-officer
of the R.A.N. when he retired in 1952.
• •
One at least of the nation’s best-
known naturalists, (Philip) Crosbie
Morrison, will be the first Director of
National. Parks for Victoria, with a board
(National Parks Authority) composed
chiefly of departmental heads, and a
leavening of a skier, a tourist-promoter
and a naturalist.
Although there were no jackpots in
his sessions, Crosbie Morrison was one
of the most popular broadcasters and
one of the best-read newspaper feature-
writers. He was a reporter on the pre-
war “Argus” when he first began to write
about Nature —he had been a brilliant
student in zoology—and he began the
excellent but unprofitable magazine,
“Wild Life,” for the “Herald” in 1938 ;
and walked back with unruffled feathers
to the “Argus” in 1954, when the
“Herald” got tired of paying the bills.
Morrison, who has been lecturer in
natural history for the Melbourne Univer-
NATURALIST
sity Extension Board since 1939, and
adviser or official for most Victorian
fauna and flora associations, was relayed
to New Zealand by radio-stations, and he
was holidaying there in January when
he read a small paragraph that the
“Argus,” and his job, were —er —extinct.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 60, Major-General
Howard Karl Kippenberger, commander of
the N.Z. division in the Middle East and Italy
in World War 11. He was badly wounded by a
landmine at Cassino (Italy) in 1944. Since the
end of the war he had been editor-in-chief
of the N.Z. war-histories.
In Sydney, at 68, Rabbi L. A. Falk, minister
of the Great Synagogue, Elizabeth-street,
Sydney. In World War I he was chaplain of
the 38th and 40th Bns. of the Royal Fusiliers,
and between the wars and during War II was a
chaplain of the Australian Military Forces.
In Adelaide, at 54, Dr. Samuel Pearlman,
honorary eye-surgeon at Royal Adelaide and
ear, nose and throat specialist at Adelaide
Children’s Hospital. Author of several well-
known medical papers on his subject.
In Melbourne, O. C. Robarts, a senior member
of Melbourne “Age” editorial staff. Formerly
on the “Argus,” he was with the Department
of Information in the last war, and joined the
“Age” in 1945. Recognised as an authority on
early Melbourne history.
At Stamford, Connecticut (U.S.), at 64, Ezio
Pinza, the singer who left opera in 1949 to
co-star in “South Pacific.”
At Wellington (N.Z.), at 63, Richard B.
Martin, F.R.C.S., F.R.A.C.S. Served with
N.Z.E.F. in Samoa and France, was aboard the
Marquette when she was torpedoed, and well
known in medical circles for a number of
years.
In Sydney, at 57, Arthur Spooner, well known
in banking and in golf.
In Melbourne, at 63, G. L. Fairbairn, joint-
manager of L. A. Fairbairn and Co., stock-
and-station agents, which in 1954 became a
subsidiary of Younghusband, Ltd.


ABORIGINALITIES
THE MECHANICS' INSTITUTE
■pASSED on yesterday in our little
A town, at a ripe old age, the
Mechanics’ Institute.
Nothing remarkable about our
Mechanics’. It was just a mate of the
many that sprang up in the towns that
grew out of the diggings, and were as
much part of the local scene as derelict
poppet-legs or the rich reef that was lost
.when old Berriman died.
Architecturally our Mechanics’ had no
pretensions. Few of them did —just solid
bush-carpentry exercised on hardwood
and galvanised iron. It never knew a
ceiling and to the end its dusty rafters
offered a bold challenge to nervous chair-
men, budding elocutionists and the ladies
allotted “ten-bob fof streamers to
decorate the hall.”
It had a stage—so starkly functional
that Orson Welles would have delighted
in it. It even had stage-doors, although
these to the embarrassment of visiting
“artists,” opened only on to the horse-
paddock and some stringybarks.
Probably the most impressive thing
about it was its name. Romeo might have
scoffed at the idea that a name could be
worth much, but the title Mechanics’
Institute did endow the structure with a
certain prestige, in spite of the paint that
flaked from the walls and the sparrows
that nested under the iron.
How many potential mechanics ever
availed themselves of its services—or
whether it ever had any such services to
offer —history doesn’t record. But in the
early days, night-classes were held there.
Mainly though, they were concerned with
merely imparting the three “r’s” to young
bucks who’d been fortunate enough to
miss the drudgery of schooling.
With the years the Mechanics’ acquired
a role of its own as hub of the town.
There the school-committee met and
yarned about the weather keeping dry
and the price of wheat. There an
occasional down-at-heel vaudeville com-
pany “direct from the Palladium”
played a moderately successful one-night
stand. There, each autumn, the Ladies’
Guild held their Chrysanthemum Show
for the missions in Tanganyika. There, in
June and July; the annual balls were held
and, each Saturday night, the footballers’
dance. And there, round Christmas-time,
old Parsons donned his red robe and cut
presents from the Christmas-tree for the
annual school break-up.
Essentially, the Mechanics’ was multi-
purpose and, in its unassuming way, a
forerunner of the much-vaunted civic
centres we don’t hear so much about
these days.
Also tacked to its title were the words,
“and Free Library.” I missed ours. It
disappeared before my acquaintance with
the Mechanics’. But I doubt that I missed,
much.
I’ve seen a few such collections over
the years in other Mechanics’. In their
pristine state, and to minds attuned to
different reading-habits, they might have
"This time see if you can shout ‘Come in, spinner.' without an accent."
had some attraction. But I’ve often
wondered.
Broken-backed copies of Dickens
show he had his following. So did
Charles Garvice and the early Ethel Dell.
But the meatier tomes —the stolid bio-
graphies of empire-builders, the collected
sermons, the manuals "of uplift and
essays, the histories of Rome and
Carthage, the various collected
“Thoughts” of such as Felicia Hemans —-
seemed to have served only to gather dust
and provide seclusion for the silverfish
over the decades.
The choicest items from our collection
were passed on to the local school when
space was needed to store comforts for
the troops back in war-time. Not a
terribly enticing shelf they made either: a
History of Afghanistan, a Jules Verne or
two, Picturesque England without the
pictures, The Boy’s Manual of Temper-
ance, a. Life of Dr. Livingstone, The Last
of the Mohicans, Eric —inevitably—and a
few more of similar kind.
But now the Mechanics’ itself has had
a last night out. It was inevitable in a
way. The white-ants had got to the floor,
the roof had sprung more than a leak,
and the leg of the piano recently went
through the stage. There was no real
reason why sentiment should stay its
demolition to make way for something
better.
But it’s hard to see an old friend pass,
and it stood for a lot in the memory of
those who grew up with it. Still they
talk —the few old-timers —of the crino-
lined-concertina night they celebrated
Mafeking ; of McBride’s tin-kettling ; of
the joy and tears of welcome-home to the
lads of World War I.
Memories clustered oyster-like about
the rafters of that old Mechanics’, and
now the rusting roof lies neatly stacked
among the stringbarks. The walls are
down. Faded bits of streamers flutter on
the rafters and the “stage”—where many
a worthy councillor extolled the virtues
of “our community,” where aspiring
sopranos struggled with “II Baccio,” and
where old Charlie fiddled till the daylight
came—lies mute and sadly naked to the
sky.
Clemmac.
« * * *
YX/HEN the terrier across the road was
*" a pup he was taken out every
day for a walk on a lead, but it wasn’t
long before he was ranging the country-
side on his own. Now, it doesn’t matter
how much he gets about solo, every
afternoon he sets up a clamor until the
lead is fixed on him and he’s taken for
a formal walk. Home again, as soon
as he’s unleashed he’s off like a shot to
ramble again on his own. Recently his
mistress took a trip abroad, leaving
Scottie with her parents. Loudly they
proclaimed to all and sundry they had
no intentions of continuing the ridiculous
daily promenade. They’d reckoned with-
out the dog. His mistress hadn’t been
gone a week when we noticed a small
procession passing by our place. It con-
sisted of two crestfallen, resigned,
embarrassed-looking humans being
dragged along by a smirking, triumphant
Scottie. —“Maitri.”




A NOTHER example of the desert
blooming is provided by the Mary.
Kathleen in n.-w. Queensland. After the
M.K. Uranium Co. dammed the Corella
River irrigation made possible a com-
mercial piggery and poultry-farm. Vege-
tables and fruit, even bananas, grown on
the spot- are making the town practically
self-supporting. But milk is still brought
from the Atherton Tableland, involving
the longest milk-haul in the world under
tropical conditions. —“Agricola.”
* * * *
“Tackline S.”: The watchkeeper on a
ship out of Adelaide saw two vessels
approaching him at night, and almost
abreast of one another. He inquired
“What ship?” on the Aldis-lamp and
each replied, “Westralia.” Adelaide radio
was similarly shocked out of serenity on
hearing two Westralias giving 0800
E.T.A.s in quick succession for the fol-
lowing morning. One, of course, was the
well-known coastal liner; t’other a
Danish tramp, whose original charterers,
Westralian Farmers, wanted a home-
sounding label.
* * * *
“The Red Dam”: I’ve been out among
the lambing ewes and must acknowledge
the good work the avian croakers are
doing in keeping the paddocks clean.
But, looking at the sable fowl in action,
the thought struck me —I have never yet
seen a young, or even half-grown crow.
Where do they keep ’em?
* * * *
“8.A.H.”: Despite expectations and
good weather-conditions, anglers in A.C.T.
streams have had a poor season with
trout, even though regulations have been
relaxed to allow 10-inchers to be taken.
Some think that the fish are not multiply-
ing as they should and there is agitation
for the construction of a hatchery,
although this method of re-stocking seems
to have fallen into disfavor in New
Zealand and Tasmania, and is being
blamed for the breeding of anaemic and
diseased fish. The answer appears to be
the breeding of fry in waters where the
fish will live.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: “Moreen” (B. l/5/’57)
answered his or her own question touch-
ing the owl’s silent flight with the word
“glide.” Magpies flap their wings almost
to the exclusion of gliding (hence the
audible beat in comparative quietness);
owls glide almost to the exclusion of
wing-flapping. Short-distance low-fliers,
owls virtually glide from tree to tree.
“Time”: The plumage of the owl
is the secret of its silent flight.
Its fluffy feathers absorb the sound —a
characteristic denied to the hard-winged
birds. This downy softness is especially
apparent in the underparts of the wings.
• * * *
“Jacana”: A cow-cocky in the Colum-
boola (Q.) district couldn’t get one of
his cows to take its concentrates, so he
poured molasses over her rump. When
it began to .irritate her Strawb. licked it
off. Thereafter she absorbed the vitamins
in her rations without trouble.
* * * *
“Zake”: The witness swears that he
saw three cockatoos rise from a field
of grain where they’d been feeding and
fly low in line-abreast straight for a dis-
tant shed. As they flew they kept up a
continuous screeching. A few yards
from the shed the two on the flanks sud-
denly shot up to clear the roof ; the middle
one crashed into the wall. A post-mortem
revealed that the victim was blind.
“H.A.L.”: These complaints about the
hardships of haying no jam except plum
move my wife to mirth—she takes five
or six pounds of any common plum and
adds either a pound of fresh straw-
berries, raspberries, mulberries or black-
currants, or a tin of jam made from one
of those berry-fruits . . . She also pro-
duces four distinct types of marmalade by
using piemelon as a base and adding
orange, lemon, grapefruit or citron.
* * * *
“Motuku”: The sphinx-moths have me
puzzled. Their caterpillars half-bury
themselves in the earth just before
pupation, so that their chrysalis-pupas
have stick-out tails, which they wriggle
violently when the earth is vibrated by
foot or gardening-tool. Why should
they call attention to their presence,
which would probably have remained
unnoticed? If intended as a threatening
gesture, I can’t think of any enemy that
might be bluffed by it.
* * * *
“Kelms”: The bearded-dragon (B.
20/3/’57) apparently digs its burrow
much quicker than does the Westralian
mountain-devil ( Moloch horrid us). This
little lizard uses only one foot at a time
for digging and may take the best part
of two days to sink her shaft, which she
takes down about 18in. at a one-in-two
slope. Unlike many reptiles that bury
their eggs, Moloch doesn’t pack them into
the bottom of the burrow, but leaves them
lying loosely in a fair-sized nest or
chamber, packing the earth tightly only
in the lOin. or so nearest the surface —
eggs packed firmly in the soil in desert-
country would almost fry- at noon and
freeze at 4 a.m., and few embryos could
stand that temperature-range.
OAKS IN THE FITZROY
GARDENS
Noble old blokes
These oaks,
Family crest and a 11...
The gout, maybe;
Great dignity.
Bearing : tall.
Old autocrats,
Yes, with spats,
Silk hats,
Titles, too;
Clubmen, you know.
Style—just so,
Blood most blue.
Nelson, Drake . . . and
Took a hand
Where heroes fell.
Aloof,
Fond of horn and hoof,
The sabbath bell.
Lords on the green —
The Queen !
Army, Navy, what!
England and Co.,
All in a row,
Honoring a lovely spot.
victoria.
JAMES HACKSTON.


TN his tent at the little country
7- show the snake-man was park-
ing the last slitherer away in its box
when a small onlooker considered he
hadn’t had his money’s worth. “Mum,”
he protested loudly, “he didn’t let them
walk around!” —“Col Umboola.”
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Have noticed that birds are
much more determined defending their
fledglings than their eggs. This applies
even to such vicious warriors as magpies
and butcher-birds. Moreover, a bird
much more disposed to desert its nest
in the early than in the later stages of
incubation. Even minor interference is
sufficient to break-up the avian home if
the eggs are freshly laid. Further, birds
that will fight to their last breath to
defend their babes from predators never
seem to lament if the battle is lost and the
youngsters devoured. Yet I have known
caged birds to fret and die because their
owners have gone away for a few weeks.
The genuine devotion that exists between
many mated birds has been noted by
naturalists, but let one of the twain be
killed —this applies particularly at nesting-
time—and the survivor will have a sub-
stitute, if possible, before the sun goes
down.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Some years ago a Victorian
country picture-show proprietor system-
atically graded his patrons according to
stature so that the back-stalls were always
occupied by the tallest among the males,
and so on downward until the pocket-sizes
and kids filled the seats nearest the screen.
Though the scheme generally involved
separation of wives and sweethearts from
their escorts, it worked reasonably well,
as all the patrons were well known to
each other and the old silents in those
days were a very strong attraction. The
only drawback was that the tallest men
paid the tallest admission-charge. At a
Darling Downs (Q.) hamlet I saw the
scheme carried a step further. The kids
sat on the floor in front, while just in
front of them the dogs squatted in a
row, a charge for their admission being
a regular feature.
* * * •
“8.A.K.”: The hero of the film, a
carpenter, was shooting the edge of a
board with a wooden jackplane; the
shavings were being torn off, yet he
stopped and tapped the blade out even
farther. A voice behind me chortled:
“A shipwright’s sharpen.” I hadn’t heard
the expression for years, but it was apt.
In planking a vessel’s hull a clearance of
iin. to |in. is allowed between planks,
with the joints “vee’d” out. Later
these gaps are caulked with a tar-and-
oakum compound, which will come and
go with any movement in the timber.
The work not being neat, a shipwright in
a hurry might be tempted, instead of
sharpening a blunt plane-iron, to tap it
out and tear the timber off. Hence the
expression: “A shipwright’s sharpen.”
* * * *
“J. 8.”: Another Westralian town that
got its name in an unusual way was
Wagin. It appears that Billy took to his
refractory lubra with a waddy. As she
sprinted for cover, Billy, memories of
his mustering days reviving, and unable
to wheel her, was heard roaring: “Way,
gin! Way, gin!” Narrogin, of course,
derives from the lubra whose vital
statistics did not, in the camp’s opinion,
measure-up to those of Binghi’s
equivalent of Miss Monroe.
"I 'm sick of limestone caves!"
“Kanimbla”: The Belinfante Bridge
over the Cudgegong River near Mudgee
(N.S.W.) commemorates both a man and
an accident. Dr. Simon Belinfante, who
was drowned in 1874 when his buggy
overturned in crossing the river where
the bridge is now situated, was one of the
first graduates in both medicine and law
to practise in N.S.W. A Dutchman, he
did medicine at Leyden and was a
London University gold-medallist in Law.
At the time of his death he was on his
way to attend a warden’s court; the life
of his wife, who was with him, was saved
by the promptness of a Mr. Crossing (of
the Mudgee firm of stock-and-station
agents, Crossing and Cox), who was just
behind the Belinfantes. It is said that her
crinoline-type dress kept her afloat until
her rescuer could reach her. T. A.
Browne (“Rolf Boldrewood”) was the
magistrate who conducted the inquest.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: The six-year-old son of
the shiftless, improvident outback-family
was home alone when the heavy blow and
rain-squall hit the place. His weeping
comment to us soon afterwards described
the family-attitude to life exactly. “The
roof’s off ; the wireless is playing; and all
the fowls are on the sitting-room table!”
* * * *
THE HEREWARD
TWO generations of storms and currents
having failed to finish-off the hull
of the Hereward, deep in the sands of
Maroubra (Sydney)' frogmen armed with
gelignite are taking over the job.
One Sunday, 60 years ago, 1 rode my
pony across Centennial Park from the
Woollahra side and down to the lakes on
the old Randwick-road (Anzac Parade)
in order to join an endless cavalcade of
gigs, sulkies, sociables and hansom-cabs.
Their iron tyres rattled over the blue-
metal macadam towards that beach
where, a few hours earlier, the graceful
Hereward with all sails set had found a
final berth in Neptune’s dock.
One does not forget sights such as that
presented by the beautifully lined ship,
her green hull resting upon an even keel,
her tall masts erect and crossed by yard-
arms from which the useless canvas
drooped or filled, according to the
vagaries of the light sea-breeze that was
part of the perfect day. '
Many were the discussions and argu-
ments as to the ultimate fate of the Here-
ward. To the longshoreman nothing
seeded simpler than to tow the ship off
at the first favorable tide ; something in
the vessel’s whole appearance impressed
one with a sense of her safety. On the
other hand, experienced sailormen
affirmed from the beginning that she
would never again cross the seas ; that the
relentless embrace of the sands would
defy the most powerful of tugs and the
ingenuity of salvage engineers.
How right they were! After many
attempts to refloat the ship she degener-
ated in the course of a couple of genera-
tions from an object of pity and
admiration to an eyesore and a menace.
F. A.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
A Tricky Economy
A USTRALIA’S economy
continues to be a tricky
one for the landman, manufac-
turer, trader and investor. On
the land wool remains a highly
profitable commodity, once
produced, but drought is now
a threat to the industry over a
large area. Drought also
threatens other land industries
not blessed with such favorable
export prices, and the wheat-
grower has reached a critical
stage where he has to decide
whether he will sow for next
harvest or not. He needs rain
to make up his mind.
Metal prices have for the
present turned against the min-
ing industry, and one wonders
whether some other corn-
mpdities now in high world-
market favor will follow them
down in accord with tradition.
Sugar has now an excep-
tionally good world market, as
seen in export figures. Not
only are world prices up, but
Australia’s export quota has
been increased. Whether
present high prices will be
followed by improved world
production next year remains to
be seen Perhaps drought will
affect Australia’s own produc-
tion. That is one of the
typically uncertain aspects of
our present economy.
Trading figures now coming
out are indicative of the
varied fortunes of different
industries, and of different
members of a particular
industry. Wunderlich’s figures
show better earnings for the
past year, in spite of the
changed conditions in the build-
ing trade. Significant of present
trends, the board says that
“scarcity of finance for home-
building restricted the sale of
some of our products, but
demand for materials used in
commercial. industrial and
Government buildings was well
maintained.”
That helps to explain ’ the
present anomalous position in
the building trade. Home-
building is down, commercial
building is at a high level, and
resources are not sufficient to
keep both going at full pressure.
Because of inadequate
physical resources in various
parts of the economy credit
remains under firm restriction,
notwithstanding the improve-
ment in our overseas balances.
The core of our problem
remains one of inadequate
productivity per head of the
population. In Canada the
Canadian dollar is at a
premium over the U.S. dollar
principally because of the
strong Canadian production
position and its attraction of
foreign capital. This has all
been assisted by the develop-
ment of bountiful Canadian
natural resources, but the
human productive factor, at
both worker and management
level, has had an important
influence, too.
The Shape of Exports
npHE nature of Australia’s
exports especially the
change in nature over the past
few years—is a guide to the
strong parts of the Australian
economy. The following com-
parison of details of our export
income for the nine months
July-March in each of the past
two financial years is there-
fore of particular interest:
Recorded Exports [Excluding Gold).
1955-56 1956-57
July- July-
March March
£ million £ million
(f.o.br.) (f.0.b.)
Wool and
sheepskins .. 244 364
Wheat and flour 45 69
Other grains .. 12 16
Meats.. .. 47 37
Butter .... 22 23
Cheese, eggs,
milk .... 14 15
Sugar.. .. 18 30
Petroleum
products .. 5 7
7inc .... 6 8
lead .. .. 21 29
Titanium and
zirconium .. 3 7
Iron and steel .. 4 18
Vehicles and
parts .... 2 6
.... 89 99
Total .. 532 728
The increased income from
wheat and flour is entirely the
result of bigger quantities
exported. Meat figures declined
between the pinch of smaller
volumeand lower prices. The
small increase in butter values
was the result of bigger exports;
prices were weaker. Sugar
increased because of greater
volume and improved prices.
Metals were up because of
greater volume and good
prices, but .in the present
quarter overseas prices are
down pretty well all round.
Exports of Holdens seem to
have helped “vehicle and other
parts” along.
Of special interest are steel
“And Watch 'em round here — they'll have the coat
off y'r back!"
exports. The big jump is a
result of higher production
leading to an export surplus,
and there is a ready market
abroad for Australian basic
steel. Like wool, it is one of
our keenly competitive exports.
Tooth Div. Up
ALTHOUGH Australian
beer-production figures are
down following the increase in
excise last year, and land-tax
has been reimposed in N.S.W.
(no doubt quite an item to a
company that is interested in
so many hotels, not to mention
its large brewery freehold).
Tooth has increased its final
dividend to 6} p.c., making
I2j p.c. for the year, and
suggesting at least p.c. for
next year.
Following the one-for-two
bonus-issue in 1953-54, Tooth
paid 1H p.c., compared with
16 p.c. just before the issue.
For 1955-56 the rate was 12 p.c.
Before the announcement of
the increased final div. Tooth
shares had reached the low
figure of 455. There had been
a year of caterwauling in the
trade, with repeated onslaughts
by the U.L.V.A. on clubs —
first about poker-machines,
more recently about trading
conditions. The general impres-
sion created among investors
was that Beer generally was
having a bad time, and the
shares dropped from a “high”
of 535. 3d. in 1956 to the recent
455.
The scrip has now recovered
to 475. 3d. Altogether, the
improvement in the div. goes
to show that even some
temporary adversity does not
seriously affect the div.-tempo
of a concern so well-ribbed as
Tooth ; that its bonus-issue of
two years ago was just a very
necessary letting-out of-its belt,
and that its strength, both trad-
ing and financial, is by no
means fully evident even now.
The G. J. Coles Issue
A FTER flying a kite in Mel-
bourne “Sun” of their
intention, which was smartly
shot-at by Adelaide Stock
Exchange but no others,
directors of G. J. Coles
announced non - renounceable
rights to the company’s
imminent cash issue, following
the bonus declaration.
Instead the company will
issue provisional letters of
allotment on receipt of ss.
application-money. They will
be transferable, and, in effect,
be uniform stock-certificates.
Allotment-letters will be
issued in split denominations if
required, but will be accepted
for registration only from
November 15 to December 31 ;
and shareholders who don’t
apply will have their rights sold
by a trustee and receive the
proceeds.
It may be merely coincidental
that there have lately been con-
tinual complaints about the
high double brokerage payable
on the transfer of rights, and
something is now being done
about this on the various
’Changes.
G. J. Coles’s Melbourne
office was almost overwhelmed


ONE MILLION
CHEQUES A WEEK
More than one million cheques are drawn by
customers of the Bank of New South Wales
every week the equiv-
alent of 100 cheques for
every minute of every day.
Who writes these
cheques? More than half
a million people who have
cheque accounts with the
“Wales”. They include
men and women in the
professions and business,
farmers, housewives,
young people just starting
out in the world a
cross-section of the com-
munity, in fact.
They are people who
know that it pays to pay
by cheque; people who
prefer efficiency, simpli-
city, and safety in the
handling of money;
people who appreciate
the friendly service of the
Bank of New South
Wales.
You could be one oj them.
/
0V“
Ko*
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
Over 1000 branches and agencies in Australia, New Zealand
Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, and two branches in London.
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5713C
by the previous two issues, so
large has the share-register
grown—there are now some-
wnat fewer than 20,000 share-
holders —and these were for
comparatively straight issues of
one-for-three and one-for-five.
The current issue is for three-
for-10 on top of the three-for-10
bonus, and the move, which is
standard with some English
companies, is characteristic of
a judicious directorate which
has never sneezed at anything
under half-a-crown.
Anthony Hordern
VfAINTENANCE of its 10
-*-*-*- p.c. div. in the face of a
severe fall in profits (from
£233,680 to £102,686) suggests
. that the Anthony Hordern
board either regards present
difficulties in Sydney retailing
to be temporary or that its
profit-calculation has for a
long time been on a very
conservative basis.
In the previous term there
had been a fall of £66,890 in
earnings.
A weeding-out of slow-
moving stocks is estimated to
have accounted for £60,000 of
last term’s slip in profit. But
competition from suburban
retailers (following the steep
rise in fares) “was a major
factor in a drop in city sales,”
Hordern’s board reports. Costs
continued to rise, too, and
land-tax returned to the p. and
1. account at a most inopportune
time.
Hordern’s have set-up a
branch in Canberra, where
“results have been very good,
and continue to improve week
by week,” notwithstanding,
apparently, the recent cutthroat
competition in the A.C.T.
grocery business. The firm
may now be thinking in terms
of other branches away from
Brickfield Hill. Certainly no
store in Australia has a good-
will more widely spread than
Anthony Hordern’s, and
branches in any part of N.S.W.
would need no introduction
other than the display of the
firm-name.
Last year’s earnings, after
payment of the pref. div., were
equal to only 3.7 p.c. on ord.
capital. It is hardly likely that
another 10 p.c. div ; would be.
paid out of earnings so slim,
so continuance of the rate
would appear to depend on a
revival in earnings this year.
Mauri Bros, and Thomson
the £1 ord. shares of
* * Mauri Bros, and Thom-
son at 375. 6d., investors have
the opportunity of buying into
a * first-class, old-established
stock at a reasonable price.
This represents a very small
appreciation on the ex-bonus
price that followed the one-for-
two bonus-issue last November,
notwithstanding the general
strengthening in the market for
high-class shares since the
beginning of 1957.
An 8 p.c. div. is indicated
for the Current year, the interim
being at that rate. Also, an
8 p.c. distribution followed the
one-for-one issue of 1952, with
9 p.c., 10 p.c. and 11 p.c. in the
three succeeding years. On an
8 p.c. basis the yield is p.c.,
which isn’t high, but it
compares favorably with the
return offering on the front-
line stocks now in special
market favor.
Whatever the purpose of
Mauri Bros, in making its last
bonus-issue, the sharemarket
reaction would seem to be
among the least of its considera-
tions. The board appears to be
*happy to go on leaking the
business bigger and more profit-
able and at the same time
creating a minimum of fuss
publicly. So one can assume
that the bonus-issue made
could be very well afforded.
The financial strength of the
undertaking is covered-up in
shares in subsidiary companies,
the profits and assets of which
are not disclosed. But the
business as a whole has been
expanding by takeovers and
investment in kindred concerns.
Activities are spread through-
out Australia and New
Zealand, and include the dis-
tribution (in some cases the
manufacture) of yeast, vinegar,
bottle-seals and supplies and
equipment for cordial-makers,
brewers, bottlers, bakers, con-
fectioners and restaurant- and
hotel-keepers.
J. and A. Brown
C|HAREMARKET opinion
with regard to coal shares
seems to be that one com-
pany’s loss may well be
another’s gain. Various
closures of N.S.W. pits have
not adversely affected the
market’s support for J. and A.
Brown Abermain - Seaham
Collieries shares anyway.
These £.l units have lately gone
above par (to 20s. 9d.) for the
first time in about two years,
though the div. has been steady
at 8 p.c. and the earning-power
(prior to special expenditure
on plant) has been at a high
level.
The fact is that J. and A.
Brown has modernised its
plant very much out of tax-
free appropriations for capital-
expenditure, and with its first-
class collieries to produce from,
it is well sitiated among
N.S.W. coalmining companies.
It is the largest producer in the
State, and it is able to wash
much of its output and sell it
at a favorable price, (It reduced
its price slightly last term.) It
also has its own colliers.
Over the past five years J.
and A. Brown has appropriated
£1,865,000 for capital expendi-
ture (out of profits, tax-free),
while shareholders have
received, by comparison,
£760,000 in 8 p.c. dividends. In
the same time £563,000 was
written-off in ordinary depre-
ciaJ:lorl' , ,
Profits, before tax, are
restr.cted to 6s. a ton of coal,
, m s P ecia J cases, anc *
dividends are limited to 10 p.c
nle f a T h }&f* 15 approved
the Joint Coal Board-
. . - T ,• i t j
Australian National Indus-
tries
REELING the pinch in its
■*- motor section (Hillman,
Humber and other Rootes


m?m
I AC
*£. - g -K\ 8? x
. - ;
Wy&m
registered
first
MORTGRGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
****»*un
tmimitceJ -
OTHER TERMS
AVAILABLE
3 MONTHS TO
20 YEARS
SEE
PROSPECTUS
Fixed quarterly income free of
exchange.
«
Principal paid in full on maturity.
Principal paid in full before
maturity in certain circumstances
—refer Prospectus.
The largest asset backing of all
finance companies in Australia.
Assets exceed £40,000,000.
Underwriting Brokers to the issue:
lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne,
Sydney and Canberra.
Trustee for the Debenture Stock*
holders: The Perpetual Executors
& Trustees Association of Australia
Limited.
Requests for a Prospectus may be made to
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES and all Branches of the E.S. A A. BANK
LIMITED, NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA Ltd., and
Australia's Leading Hire Purchase Organisation
16.5
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH - HOBART
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. —Is Divorce.
TO RRUCE HENRY SECKOLD late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that MAY
CRICHTON SECKOLD has tiled her
Petition for Divorce No. 2089 of 1956
on the ground ol desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you intend to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court. King Street
Sydney by the 29th of July 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. N. 1). THOMAS,
ANDERSON & HEAVENER, Solicitors,
51 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.-
vehicles), Australian National
Industries, Ltd. (formerly John
McGrath) recently cut its
interim back to 5 p.c., com-
pared with 8f p.c. for the full
preceding year. It anticipates
an earning-rate of 6 p.c. on
capital during the current term,
compared with 11.4 p.c. in the
preceding year.
It is likely that most sections
of the business, including drop-
forgings, are now slacker than
has been the experience for
some years, in common with
most other industries of the
kind. The board simply says:
“The reduction in profit is due
to a fall in turnover and to
increased costs of selling in a
market contracted by a credit-
restrictions and other economic
regulations ”
The sharemarket had not fully
anticipated the div.-cut. The ss.
shares have fallen from a few
pence above par to 3s. sd. over
the past few months.
Wapet Goes On
[From JL. Owen]
"pOSSIBLY as a counter to
A the disappointment
expressed by R. G. Follis in
San Francisco on May 2, P. F.
LeFevre, speaking in Perth on
May 10, stated that Wapet, of
which he is managing-director,
would continue its exploration
work even if no encouraging
results were immediately forth-
coming.
He pointed out, however,
that no drilling-location would
be selected until all possible
geological and geophysical data
had been gathered and studied
exhaustively, and he warned
that there would be periods
during which no drilling would
be carried out. It would be
wrong, he said, to assume that
drilling inactivity would indi-
cate any slackening of the
exploration effort.
Mr. LeFevre announced that
any further work to be done in
the Exmouth Guff area would
be determined at a meeting in
New York.
The slowing-down of drilling
operations in the Carnarvon
Basin was foreshadowed as far
back as December 1 last, when
Oil Drilling and Exploration,
Ltd., took over the running of
the Learmonth camp, although,-
at the time, the change was
described as “part of a general
move to streamline the adminis-
tration.” It now appears that
the retreat from the Carnarvon
Basin is imminent, in view
of Mr. LeFevre's statement that
“There is a very attractive and
large area both north and
south of the Fitzroy River.”
Any undue optimism there
must surely be 1 tempered by
the results (or lack of them)
from the Grant, Nerrima,
Myroodah and Sisters’ Plateau
wells, and I trust that the
exodus to the north will yet
be delayed.
Wapet has spent, in round
figures, £6 million in the Car-
narvon Basin. Of this, drilling
costs have amounted to
£4,715,000, geophysical field-
work has absorbed £1,191,000,
and geological work a baga-
telle of only £72,000. The
proportion is very nearly 64:
16:1. In the Fitzroy Basin,
with an expenditure approach-
ing £3 million, the correspond-
ing ratio is 64:22: 3.
In each case, the fraction
spent on geological work can
be described only as astonish-
ingly small, particularly when
it is realised that the value of
the geophysical work is largely
dependent on the correct trans-
lation of the data culled from
it into sane geology. The trans-
lation, in itself, requires a very
complete and specialised know-
ledge of both the macro- and
the micro-characteristics of out-
crop and core and —on top of
that —the experience necessary
to evaluate those characteristics
and to use them in depth extra-
polation.
Since geophysics has (quite
rightly in well-studied “normal”
areas) assumed a major role
in the search for oil, the slow,
often costly (in both time and
money), sometimes tedious and
always physically and mentally
strenuous observation of out-
crop minutiae has gone into
discard and the art of inter-
preting detail and extrapolating
the interpretation to depth has
been lost except to survivors of
the older generation of geolo-
gists who had, perforce, in the
more remote areas, to work
without geophysical guidance.
In the Carnarvon Basin, out-
crop evidence-available long
before any deep wells had been
drilled—pointed, very definitely,
to the probability of complex
structures and unusual deposi-
tional conditions in strata of
pre-Triassic age, but not
enough heed seems to have
been paid to the warning either
in the location of wells or in
the interpretation of
geophysical data.
Tire history of the search for
oil in W.A. might have been
very different had a more even
balance been struck between
the geological and geophysical
allotments, and there is little
doubt that the resulting reduc-
tion in the number of abortive
wells and in repetition
geophysical work would have
reduced the overall expenditure
very considerably.
It is not yet too late to make
the change, and it is to be hoped
—to the advantage of all con-
cerned —that, before the Car-
narvon Basin is abandoned as
an oil prospect, the intensive
collection and proper applica-
tion of outcrop data will be
undertaken. The cost of such
a survey will be negligible when
weighed against possible bene-
fits.


m
m
?&•
Mr
a
if!
m
■&j
0
m
"' :'
•>.ry
M
tc
ife
§
li
■':.:
M
da
S 3
%
tel
Si
*
m
mm
m
m
m
m
Wi
m
Hi
m
.
»
*
:
3 te
■■' : *-v
JS&
M
S&s
II
534
sit
SS&i
:l
• - ••■■ . •
: : •'
$ ;
m
m
mm
s
'■*?
m
: v?
;
: ■:••
:*M:
■4’'-
•MM.
s<;
v "'."
i
3*
~te'V.:l
l
s
V'i
H
ipM
£C
MS
Pi
te ' -
_____
M 2
r.
S«
ti
I
Mv-
MM’I;
,«is
'VtV
ii
W±
m
d?.
SSSKr-
:. -I'-
M
n~
-
&Vifi
PI
i ■•
r>»-i
»■'■'. • .•• •
P
V-(-
m
as
P
--■ W'
m
m
m
w
I’: ' ■ _- :•••••'■
M
85
- 4
Md
■■■
m
■. •
iK®
Mi
Ste
~. T M ■ . M .- - *•* ; -
- ; ■ ' v A f )
'* ♦ jl
:. : Jm
. ,wm
■ &mm
: . , - .- * ,---
Mte
■■ /
ysi
■ •■;•• ; : - - ■
: v : ■■••- •Ma V
/
/ :
>
r. / •
/
" , V . ,
• "- *
if--,'
.« - -- -' -
7. \ . A- y//i
■ I, \ - /T^
■i’4
*
gss
ii.
-• I ? >
i
I : ,*> / -
: \ ■ y ’/
•'A • .
- M • -
SI
W&
-■;*•••
• ■• : . - ■":. ■ S' - *■■;:
■ . . Mi - ■
ffiSi
; 'v • :
..j; A
’ ** :
ass
m:
-. ■' ■.■
-4Tv^
•' -


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“The Diary of Anne Frank”
Making the possible appear
probable is the commonest of
a producer’s problems, but with
“The Diary of Anne Frank”
(at Sydney Royal) it would
seem that Noel Madison’s
main production difficulty was
to make the truth appear
credible.
Who could really conceive—
or believe —a faithful stage-
presentation of what life was
like for the two Jewish families
and an old dentist eight
people altogether—hiding like
rats in an Amsterdam attic for
two years from the German
occupation-troops? Madison’s
problem, one imagines, was to
make the story rather less than
life-size than to look for those
larger-than-life touches com-
monly necessary to put an idea
across the footlights.
He has, therefore, muted the
dramatic accents, and the story
—based on a young girl’s diary
found in a deserted Amsterdam
attic after the war —is told with
a quiet absence of theatrics and
with the girl’s voice effectively
providing the chapter-headings
to a darkened theatre between
scenes.
Obviously it is a very moving
play: The initial gratitude of
them all for the bare oppor-
tunity to exist ; their little
pleasures and irritations; the
growing friction and hatreds as
their confinement rubs off the
civilised tolerance of their
fellows ; the teenage diarist
touching the first fringes of
womanhood and shy love ; the
father of one family, half-
insane with hunger, stealing
bread and selling his wife’s
coat for cigarettes ; the mother
of the other reaching breaking-
point and wanting to throw
him out to the Nazis the one
great fear and the one great
hope holding them together;
and the final thunderous knock-
ing on the door.
The impact of the story is
sufficient to override any
occasional smallness in the
acting—though who is to say
what is a fair representation of
any person in such circum-
stances?—and Madison, as the
steady, unassuming leader of
the group; Elizabeth Water-
house. as the young diarist ;
and Gabor Baraker, as the
hunger-crazed father of one
family, give remarkably im-
pressive performances.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“The Relapse”
The stage at Sydney’s
Elizabethan quite overflows
with the exuberance of Robin
Lovejoy’s production of
Vanbrugh’s “The Relapse.”
Lord Foppingion (Paul Rogers) being more-or-less stopped in the vitals by Loveless (Clement
McCallin) in Robin Lovejoy’s production of “The Relapse,” at Sydney’s Elizabethan Theatre.
Mr. Lovejoy has made it the
producer’s night-out and scores
point after point with the
extravagantly costumed caper-
mgs which decorate —and, in
fact, occasionally overwhelm—
this Restoration comedy of
fops, seductions and “virtue in
danger.”
Indeed, for a time, while
watching Mr. Lovejoy’s appar-
ently endless invention in the
way of preposterous costumes,
gross caricature, flowery
gesture and posture, the heavily
scented fiourishings and bow-
ings;—while taking in this rich
diet one could not help wonder-
ing how it would all go played
a la Coward: trimmed of its
decorations and played for a
swift, smooth, polished bed-
room comedy on the one hand,
and, on the other, in the Tun-
belly scenes, for rich earthy
humor instead of such flam-
boyant exaggeration.
One soon fell into Mr. Love-
joy’s way of thinking, however,
and was reminded that there
is neither the polish nor the
wit in the writing to justify the
Coward treatment which,
incidentally, is an indication of
what excellent comedies of
manners Coward has written
and how well he. stands up to
comparison with the Restora-
tion pieces. The humor in “The
Relapse” is noisy, enthusiastic
bawdiness, and there is hardly
a line in it that does not gain
from the emphasis of caricature
and the exaggerated flourish.
Paul Rogers, with nimble
heels, drawling accents and fan-
tastic costumes, was a wonder-
fully styled Foppington, with
only the vitality of his acting
to relate the performance to
his Hamlet. Clement McCallin
went after Dinah Shearing’s
Berinthia with a fine swing to
his black curls and an
appropriately wicked glint in
liis eyes, while Miss Shearing,
of the delicate and graceful
movements and charming tricks
of voice, retreated
enthusiastically into his arms.
Margaret Collins, as
Amanda, defended her virtue
with oddly Shavian chastity;
Zoe Caldwell, as Tunbelly’s
daughter, was a foyne Somerset
apple, unashamedly eager for
picking, and Lloyd Berrell’s
Tunbelly, with a gut like a
barrel of cideoand voice gasp-
ing to find its way out, was
magnificent to behold.
♦♦♦ *z* *** >
A.B.C. Vocal and Concerto
Competition
In the N.S.W. State finals (at
Sydney Town Hall) of the
A.B.C. vocal and concerto
competition, the standard of
singing was the poorest for
some years. Kevin Mills, who
won it, did succeed in injecting
dramatic urgency into his
account of the “Eri Tu” from
Verdi’s “The Masked Ball,”
but his baritone lacks carrying
quality, and few of his words
were distinguishable.
The standard was excep-
tionally high in the instru-
mental section, battled-out by
three pianists and a violinist.
It was a photo-finish between
the violinist, Stan Ritchie, and
Melvyn Bennett, the pianist
getting the decision with a
forceful, crisp and musicianly
reading of Rachmaninoff’s
“Rhapsody on a Theme by
Paganini.” Ritchie, highly
commended, qualifies for the
finals with the winners.
❖ ❖ *t*
Royal Philharmonic
Sydney’s Royal Philharmonic
Society seems to have taken on
a new lease of life under the
conductorship of Gerald
Williams. His programmes are


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TG PERCY MELVILLE JONES, late of
98 Walker Street, North Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that EDfTH * CATHERINE
JONES has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2553 oi 1956 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 22nd
July 1957 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
JL 3. P. HALL & HALL, Solicitors, 44
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
The KEROSINE
used by the
ANTARCTIC EXPEDITION
*!
* KtRQSi
* % :
mmm
§
//m
1
m y \? ■■. ■*
V
i
CAR
E
CO MUTE
burns WARMER,
CLEANER, BETTER
■ ' ...
* It's easier and there's
a saving if you bring your
own container.
You can buy* Coralite
Kerosine by the tin where
you see these pumps . . .
NMflf
M
ALSO OBTAINABLE AT SELECTED STORES,
C.O.R AGENTS AND DEPOTS
Marketed by THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD, an associate
The British Petroleum Company Ltd
*
of
CSISR
enterprising, and orchestra and
chorus have responded to his
enthusiasm. Tighter discipline,
100, has given the choristers
more precision in attack, an
effect most marked in two
works presented at the society’s
latest concert: Pergolesi’s
“Stabat Mater” and Kodaly’s
“Te Deum.”
The latter, a first-perform-
ance in Australia, was written
to celebrate the 250th
anniversary of the relief of the
city of Buda from Turkish
occupation, and its thunderous
rejoicings, shot through with
Magyar folk-strains, were a
challenge which both orchestra
and chorus met with full-
blooded tone. In the quieter
devotional phases the half-
voice singing was of good
standard.
The Pergo 1 e s i work,
truncated to omit some of the
more banal sections, was
granted less vocal weight, but
was marked by clarity and nice
integration between the choirs.
Particularly good work was
done by Joan Gray, whose solo
contralto was of an unusual
richness.
The other choral work was
“Sea Drift,” Delius’s setting of
the Walt Whitman poem, in
which Neil Easton was soloist.
Delius is the only composer
since Mozart who has professed
indifference to that master’s
music ; and, in the light of “Sea
Drift,” this is significant. Delius
could have no sympathy with
Mozart’s structural strength
and inexhaustible melodic and
harmonic invention, for these
elements are conspicuously
absent in this overlong and
boring piece—as they are from
most of his other tone-poems.
And would Mgpart have ever
pitted a single voice against
a tutti orchestra and chorus
going double- fortissimo ?
Delius does, and Easton’s
powerful baritone was com-
pletely swallowed.
With Bartok’s “Rumanian
Folk-Dances,” Brahms’s gruffly
good - humored “Academic
Festival’’ Overture, and
Mozart’s “Eine Kleine Nacht-
musik” the orchestra showed an
encouraging advance in style,
assurance and tonal texture.
❖ ❖ ❖
Leonard Hungerford
Three sonatas were on the
first Sydney Con. recital given
by Victorian pianist Leonard
Hungerford.
The first was Schubert’s
symphonically - proportioned
A Major, a product of his
last year. The fairly long
journey from the opening
chordal theme to the close of
the allegro was not particularly
distinguished playing, but there
was no mistaking the spiritual
quality in the two reflective
phases of the andantino , which
are separated by a strange
episode of turbulent grief.
These, together with a scherzo
of lilt and laughter and a rondo
of bounding vitality, added-up
to a highly artistic reading.
Beethoven’s short Sonata
Op. 78, his only one in F Sharp
Major, was technically assured,
though given less than its due
of polished, classical urbanity.
The same composer’s Op. 11l
more than retrieved the lost
ground. There was impressive
power in the maestoso, and the
splendors of the arietta and its
incomparable variations were
displayed in glowing tonal
colors.
Artbursts
From Private Homes
In an exhibition that contains
Turner and Holbein it is no
doubt exceedingly wicked even
to mention Arthur Streeton.
From another point of view
he could not be mentioned in
the company of Van Gogh,
Derain and Vlaminck,; nor
even—as many today would
assert—with Drysdale, Nolan,
Dobell and Donald Friend.
Yet it is a fact that of all
the pictures in David Jones’
(Sydney) exhibition of “Famous
Paintings from Australian
Homes’’ the one this commen-
tator would most have liked to
take home —had not Mr.
George Duncan been showing
two detectives and a security-
officer round the gallery at the
time was Streelon’s little
“Spring Idyll.”
There are plenty of Streetons
which, though he always had
force, one would hardly glanee
at in such mixed and
distinguished company. But
this is an early one.
It is made up of a girl in a
white d«ress lying on a hillside ;
with white sheep grazing
around and daisies springing


perilously at her feet: Botti-
celli’s “Primavera” filtered
small but still charming
through centuries of art, most
immediately from the Vic-
torian subject - painters, the
early French Impressionists,
then Tom Roberts and Julian
Ashton. It is also made up of
the curve of a rounded hilltop,
the delicate color-harmonics of
white on green and blue, the
dramatic contrast of the parasol
curving like an orange fungus
on the hill.
And, however you look at it,
for its subject-matter or its
purely technical qualities, it
achieves the one thing which
so many of the other paintings
lack: simplicity. It is modest;
it is restful; it is charming;
and it is superbly painted.
Some of the early Dobells
on display, like “Souvenir,”
though aiming for and achiev-
ing a much livelier effect, have
something the same appeal of
a modest certitude. There is no
doubt pbout them.
Coming to larger pictures,
there is an excellent Norman
Lindsay “Rita,” not included in
his oil-book and not often seen;
two good Gruners ; Drysdale’s
children in the desert; a noble
Tom Roberts, “The Quarry,”
which was surely the inspira-
tion for Streeton’s monumental
“Fire’s On”; a glowing
Augustus John ; a rich “Italian
Sea Scene” by Emile Boggio;
a large, forceful but too scrappy
“Baptism” by John Passmore;
and characteristic paintings, all
of some quality, by Friend,
Saii Herman, Margaret Preston
and James Gleeson.
Except for one Hans Heysen,
not his best but still very
attractive, the show is surpris-.
ingly weak in watercolors. In
oils it is more representative
and always interesting, but still
far from the best collection that
could be assembled from
Sydney homes.
Proceeds go to St. Vincent’s
Hospital centenary appeal.
Films
“Tammy”
In this current offering at
Sydney State there is a goat—
a doe or, in popular parlance,
a nannygoat and one
character in the film is allowed,
or instructed, to wrinkle his
nose in distaste and remark,
“I can smell it.”
That, of course, is vicious
anti-nannygoat propaganda and
Sydney
State, Greater Union Theatres
and Mr. Rydge himself should
all be ashamed of and casti-
gated for their part in it. One
never dreamed for a moment
that they nourished such hatred
of nannygoats.
Billygoats, it is known, smell
to high heaven, and one would
be justified in refusing to live
with or near the peculiarly high-
voltage reek that surrounds
them like a defensive and offen-
sive fog. Some film-cyitics who
are goats, owners of goats, or
both, may also smell as much
as their criticisms or some of
the films they criticise.
But, be it recorded, although
nannygoats may do all sorts
of things—such as eating toilet-
rolls like spaghetti, chewing
tobacco, and scoffing oysters
by the dozen they are
innocent of anything except the
smell of nannygoat, of which it
may be said that a nannygoat
by any other name would smell
as sweet.
Tammy, by the way, is not the
goat in the film ; she is a sweet
young shapely innocent who
lives with her grandfather—and
the goat—on an old houseboat
in the wild and picturesque
seclusion of the bayou country
in the Deep South. When a
handsome young aviator
crashes near by she nurses him
back to health and when, sub-
sequently, Granddad is hauled
off to the calaboose for selling
corn-likker she journeys—with
the goat—to the young man’s
palatial Southern mansion.
If the film is more reliable
about such things than it is
about nannygoats, it would
appear that the impoverished
Southern aristocracy have
learnt from their British
counterparts to earn a crust by
showing tourists over their
ancient and historic homes. In
this case the frayed gentry are
a mass of starchy inhibitions
with their future appearing to
depend on the young man’s
marrying the sophisticated
niece of a city advertising
mogul and making a fortune
out of copywriting or some-
thing.
Tammy’s sweet simplicity
naturally makes goats of all of
them and clears up their com-
plexes so that even the adver-
tising baron forgets his ulcers
and eats enough corncakes and
syrup to choke a billygoat.
Apart from its gross libel on
nannygoats the film is an enter-
taining enough fairytale, senti-
mental and colorful, with Miss
Debbie Reynolds, as Tammy,
flitting sentimentally and
beautifully through riots of
foliage, extravagant costumes
and the handsome walls and
halls o'f the Southern aris-
tocracy.
The nannygoat, though a
little weak on the bleat com-
pared with others one has
known, gives a notably
intelligent interpretation of the
roie of a nanrtygoat.
♦> ♦♦♦
“Baby Doll”
Tennessee Williams, who
seems to have been dredging up
his plays from a bottomless
Well of human decadence for
some time, must be pretty close
to the bottom of it with this
story of moral depravity in the
cotton-lands of the Deep South.
Whatever you may think of
his subject-matter, however, no
one can deny his intensity and
style, and here, with the aid of
director Elia Kazan, the result
is a film of remarkable
suspense.
The story concerns a middle-
aged no-hoper, full of gran-
diose ideas about running his
cotton-plantation, who has
successfully dangled his
property and mansion as
marriage-bait for an 18-year-
old. Her disillusionment on
finding that both are hopelessly
decayed quickly turns to hatred
of her husband, to whom she
denies consummation of the
marriage until she is 20.
Goaded by the contempt of
other planters, the husband
sets fire to the cotton-gin of a
neighboring young Sicilian
planter of whose success he is
inordinately jealous. The
Sicilian takes a double-revenge
by seducing the wife and using
the amorous diversion as a lever
to wring from her a written
testimony to her husband’s
crime.
Karl Malden, as the nerve-
wracked, frustrated husband,
is convincing; Carroll Baker
gives a shrewd mixture of
' wantonness and vapidity ; and
Eli Wallach turns in a needle-
sharp combination of lust and
vengeance. At Hoyts theatres.
<i*
“Lady Chatterley’s Lover”
This French-made version of
D. H. Lawrence’s novel keeps
the basic plot intact —there
have been alterations in the
characters and the time is the
present —and by and large the
situations are much as he
portrayed them, though the
gamekeeper-seducer of Lady
Chatterley is less embittered
about the upper crust and
rather more inclined to idealise
about physical love than the
original character.
The film is a fair success, for
which much credit is due to a
subtle performance by
Danielle Darrieux, as Lady
Chatterley, especially in her
change from cool impersonality
when her husband suggests
she should bear him an heir
by another father, leaving the
choice of sire to her own good
taste. Leo Genn’s Sir Clifford
Chatterley, forgetting his good
breeding only when his wife
strikes his pride by taking a
servant as a lover, is quite
acceptable; and Erno Criso
draws a virile gamekeeper, a
misogamist by experience but
lover by inclination.
The dialogue has been
severely blue-pencilled, though
whether this is so in the French
translation (the sub-titles are
in English) only those who
understand the Gallic
language spoken at around 150
w.p.m. can tell. At Sydney
Vogue.
❖
“The Happy Road’”
Wholesome story about a
small American boy and a
French girl who run away
from a Swiss school to hitch-
hike to Paris to see their
respective parents—the boy’s
father is an American widower
trying to establish a French
business, the girl’s mother a
divorcee. The parents are
summoned to the school, and
the resultant chase after the
truants adds up to a deal of
fun, including some gentle
slaps at a Nato general and
his manoeuvres. There is
rather too much padding, but
smooth performances by Gene
Kelly and Barbara Laage, plus
a couple of delightfully natural
kids, more than make up the
leeway. At Sydney Liberty.
❖ ♦> +>
“Ten-thousand Bedrooms”
In this M.-G.-M. comedy at
Sydney St. James Dean Martin
does little more than demon-
strate that he has nothing to
back up an amiable appearance
and a passable crooning-voice.
He is cast as a millionaire-
bachelor who, while adding a
Rome hostelry to his world-
wide string of luxury-hotels,
gravitates from one to another
of two sisters (Eva Bartok and
Anna-Maria Alberghetti).
To compensate for Martin’s
comedy shortcomings, the two
girls are sparkling, and are
ably assisted by Walter Slezak,
as a philosophical father of
four beauteous daughters of
marriageable age, and by Paul
Henreid, as a hard-up
Polish count who sculpts
monstrosities.
The main star, however, is
the camera, with its sweeping
views in color of the Eternal
City.


The Man on the Land
needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who wifi conserve
his Estate ror those whom , under his Will # he desires to benefit
5.V'
£?s
-■><****
•4 fc*
;»; Vli-V
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY has for over sixty-five
years successfully managed country estates. The Company’s
extensive organisation and wide experience ensures that the
interests of its clients will receive every safeguard and attention.
Ensure for your
Estate the benefit of
this experience and
obtain for your
beneficiaries the pro-
tection of capital
and assets exceeding
£1,000,000.
Write for a free explanatory booklet.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
G. B. Knler (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E,
(Vice-Chairman )
A. E. Bond
F. B. Fleming
J. R. Faviell
C. H. Locke
Manager: N. L. Shaic
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary: Chief Trust Officert
P. H. Andrews M. A. Foulcher
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT.IIB.IS
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
General Motors-Holden’s, Ltd.
"pOR the second year in succession
•*- General Motors-Holden’s, Ltd., has
reported a relatively small fall in
earnings; but the manufacture of Holden
motor-vehicles (the co.’s main interest)
continues to be ail extremely pro-
fitable business. Dividends paid
to the American parent co. during
the year ended December 31 last
amounted to £3,937,500, or £962,500 less
than in the preceding year.
Although all the ord. capital in
G.M.-H. is owned by the giant General
Motors Corp. of U.S.A., the predominant
position occupied by the co. in the Aus-
tralian motor-vehicle industry adds con-
siderable interest to its accounts and
achievements.
Last year nearly 40 p.c. of new motor-
vehicles registered in Australia were
either manufactured, assembled, or im-
ported by G.M.-H. The co. has thus
regained, in a much larger market, a
share of total vehicle-sales comparable
with that which it held in the years
immediately before the 1939-45 war,
when locally assembled Chevrolet, Olds-
mobile, Pontiac and Buick vehicles were
its chief products.
Last term an extra 5093 Holdens were
delivered to dealers, but import-restrictions
reduced the number of imported, or partly
imported, vehicles available, and the
total number of units sold by the co.
fell by 430 to 83,985, a drop of 0.5 p.c.
Over the same period the number of new
vehicles (of all makes) registered in Aus-
tralia fell by 12.9 p.c.:
Number Cars and Trueke.
1953. 1954. 7 955. 1956.
Holden 44,175 54,796 63,800 68,893
Vauxhall-Bedford ... 8,870 15,592 17.214 12,201
U.S. and Canadian, etc. 5,554 3,666 3,401 2,891
Total .. .. 58,599 74,054 84,415 83,985
Export-sales have been limited by foreign
import-quotas and exchange restrictions,
but 2193 Holdens went to overseas buyers
last year, 852 more than in the previous
term. New Zealand remained the largest
importer; agencies were also estab-
lished in Thailand, Malay a and North
Borneo.
The value of sales increased once again,
this time by £1,617,709, but the rate of
growth was much slower. Of the record
£80,095,386 turnover, £11,567,000 (up
£1,045,000), or 14.4 p.c., came from the
non-vehicle divisions of the co. which
produce or distribute automotive parts
and accessories, domestic and commercial
refrigerators (Frigidaire), diesel engines,
power-plants and a large range of indus-
trial equipment:- —
Vehicle. Non-vehicle. Total.
1951 ... £35;297,750 £7,183,995 £42,481,745
1952 .. 41,583,595 8,036,062 49,619,657
1953 .. 50,813,641 6,856,477 57,670,118
19.74 .. 60,649,454 9,211,546 69,861,245
1955 .. 67,9 75,677 10,522,000 78,477,077
1956 .. 68,528,386 11,567,000 80,095,380
In the first half of the term the rate of
sales-tax on new cars was increased from
16f p.c. to 30 p.c., and credit- and import-
restrictions were also intensified. Sales
of Holden vehicles, however, were limited
by production rather than demand, and
at the end of the year, the co. reports,
“dealers and distributors were holding
thousands of unfilled orders.”
A new-model Holden was released late
in the term and a station-wagon has since
been added to the range of body-styles.
Increased rates of co.-tax were an-
nounced after the close of the 1955 term,
with the result that £749,524 was charged
against the last term’s earnings to cover
the added tax-liability. After making
appropriate adjustments to earnings in
the two years affected by the new rates,
net profit for the ’56 term amounted to
£8,473,041. The actual slip in earnings
was, therefore, £654,410 after providing
£5.671,697 (down £604,365) for taxation
and £ 1,967,405 (up £326,598) for
depreciation:
G.M.-H and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends
Pref. Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. / Ord. , serves.
£ £ £ £
1951.3,348,023 33.096 30 p.c. = 525,000 6,884,453
Profit sale assets, £53,707 .. .. 6,938,102
Net equity subsid. profit, £93SO .. 6,947,542
1952. 3,947,548 33,696 Nil 10,861,394
Profit sale assets, £37,574 .. .. 10,898,968
Investment income, £13,512.. ..10,912,480
Tax over-provision, £922,917 ..11,835,397
1953.7,249,751 33,696 100p.e.=1,750,000 17,287,940
Profit sale assets, £23,678 .. ..17,311,618
1954.9,899,604 33,696 260p.e.=4,550,000 22,627,526
Loss sale assets, £34,974 . . 22,592,552
To depreciation provision, £444,963 22,147,589
1955.9,127,451 33,696 280p.c—4,900,000 26,341,744
Profit sale assets, £16,439 ..26,357,783
1956.8,473,041 33,690 225p.e.=3,937,500 30,859,628
The fall in profit was largely due to
higher labor and material costs (which
together absorbed 77.9 p.c. of sales-
revenue as against 76.2 p.c. in the previous
year), the introduction of the new model
probably accounting for part of the in-
crease in costs. The amount of the final
ord. div. is not disclosed until the end
of the following term, and in the fore-
going table ord. divs. are shown against
the year in which they were paid. On
this basis last term’s £3,937,500 div. was
worth 225 p.c. on ord. capital, compared
with 280 p.c. (£4,900,000) in the previous
term. Earnings covered the 6 p.c. pref.
div. and 482.2 p.c. on ord. capital, or a
healthy 29.4 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
as they stood at the beginning of the
term.
The co. continues to finance its con-
siderable capital-expenditure by the re-
investment of profits, and when expan-
sion now in progress is completed over
£4B million will have been spent since
the war on new plant, buildings, etc. In
the last 12 years something like £3O
million of profits has gone back into the
business and this should be kept in mind
when considering the handsome return
now being received by the parent co. from
its Australian investment.
The new vehicle- and body-assembly
plant at Dandenong (Victoria) went into
operation last term, and alterations and
additions were made to all the co.’s eight
plants. As a result there was a sharp
rise in the book-value (cost, less depreci-
ation) of fixed assets, over £9.3 million of


the £l3-million increase going into plant
and equipment:
Con so li dat kd Figures.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref. .. £561,600 £561,600 £561,600
Ord. .. 1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000
Reserves .. 22,627.526 27,090,868 30,859.628
Creditors, etc. 7,763,057 8,700,434 8,384,915
Tax reserve, etc. 8,201,976 8,837,2.74 11,902,959
Pref. filial div. 16,848 16,848 16,848
£40,921,007 £46.957,024 £53,475,950
Freeholds, etc. 4,008,647 6,940,106 10,570,004
Plant .. .. 7,244,135 10,086,159 19,456,561
Stocks 16,223,335 17,461,526 17,202,394
Debtors .. 2,019,464 2,161,843 3,120,454
Cash, etc. .. 11,425,426 10,307,391 3,126,537
£40,921,007 £46,957,024 £53,475,950
The heavy capital-outlay brought a re-
duction of £7,180,854 in the holdings of
cash, etc., and left fixed assets accounting
for 58 p.c. of total assets, compared with
36.2 p.c. at the end of the previous term.
A further increase in the production of
Holdens can be expected in the current
term, and the co. may well obtain an
even larger share of the new-car market.
Local share-interest in the co. is limited
to its 561,000 £l6 p.c. prefs., recent sales
bringing 21s. 10d., to return 5.5 p.c.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
'THE 13.4 p.c. drop in earnings from
London Stores, Ltd., last term, sug-
gests that an early bonus-issue by the
co. is unjikely, but the large revaluation
reserve and the p.c. div.-rate sustain
hopes of an eventual capital gain.
The 46-year-old Melbourne retailer
specialises in tailoring, mercery and
sporting-goods, and trades from an 11-
story freehold at the corner of Bourke-
street and Elizabeth-street and a branch-
store in the Melbourne inner-suburb of
Prahran. In common with a number ol
large retailers the co. plans to obtain a
share of the outer-suburban retail market,
and last term it paid £65,000 for a pro-
perty at Dandenong, a rapidly-growing
centre about 20 miles from Melbourne.
A new store will be erected on the site
within the next year.
Tight financial conditions prevailed for
most of last term, and, although turnover
for the year (to February 28 last) is not
disclosed, the directors reported that
trading over that period “showed a slight
recession.” Structural alterations to the
co.’s big city store also interrupted trading,
and net profit, after providing £53,410
(down £3311) for taxation and £3240
(up £125) for depreciation, fell by £12,949
to £83,523:
Parent Co.
f Dividends
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 9 p.c. 10 p.c. serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1952.. 73,215 9.000 30,000 34,215 334,181
1953.. 66,777 9,000 30,000 27,777 361,958
From tax reserve, £11,987 .. 373,945
124 p.c.
1954.. 76,891 9,000 37,500 30,391 404,336
15 p.c.
1955.. 88,047 9,000 45,000 34,047 438,383
Tax overprovided, £175 .. .. 438,558
Assets revalued, £563,762 .. .. 1,002,320
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. 987,320
174 p.c.
1956.. 96,472 9,000 52,500 34,972 1,022,292
Tax overprovided, £69 .. .. 1,022,361
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. .. 1,020,361
1957.. 83,523 9,000 52,500 22,023 1,042,384
* After deducting goodwill, £16,659 at 28/2/’57.
The earnings covered the 9 p.c. pref. div.
and 24.8 p.c. on ord. capital, compared
with 28.4 p.c. in the preceding year, and
an average of 21.5 p.c. over the- 10 years
to 1956. On total shareholders’ funds
the return was a modest 5.7 p.c.
The co.’s freeholds wsere revalued in
1951 and again in 1956. A one-for-two
bonus-issue which followed the ’sl
revaluation took paid capital to £400,000,
including £IOO,OOO in 9 p.c. prefs. The
ord. div. on the bonus-enlarged capital
was dropped from p.c. to 10 p.c. in
1952, but was increased to p.c. in
1954, 15 p.c. in 1955 and p.c. in 1956.
The financial structure is sound:
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.*
Pref £106,000 £IOO,OOO £IOO,OOO
Ord 300,000 300,000 300,000
Reserves .. .. 445,042 1,038,951 1,059,043
Mortgages., .. 48,000 32,000 32,000
Creditors .. .. 53,123 27,301 108,203
Staff fund.. .. 15,640 10,640
Tax provision .. 48,708 56,721 53,368
Final div. .. 30,000 30,000 30,000
£1,034,873 £1,600,613 £1,699,254
Freehold .. . . 638,518 1,202,280 1,279,391
Plant, fittings, etc. 57,342 04,;j07 51,368
Shares subsidiary.. 4,188 4,188 4,188
Stocks, etc. .. 197,870 200,4u5 207,819
Debtors .. .. 12,926 11,964 12,589
Cash, etc. .. 107,370 104,560 127,240
Intangibles .. 16,659 16,659 10,659
£1,034,873 £1,600,613 £1,699,254
Building improvements and the purchase
of the Dandenong property added £12,111
and £65,000 respectively to the book-value
of freeholds (1956 valuation and subse-
quent cost), a £60,000 balance due to the
vendor of the new property causing the
sharp increase in the amount shown
against creditors. The increase in actual
trade-creditors, however, was £20,902,
and followed a considerable reduction in
the preceding term. Capital-expenditure
left working-capital £51,880 lighter, at
£156,077, but holdings of cash and bonds
improved by £22,680 to £127,240 and
should go a long way towards financing
the purchase and development of the
Dandenong site.
A subsidiary co., London Supply, Ltd.,
ceased trading some years ago, its mam
asset, £5300 in inscribed stock, bringing-
’in £l7l last term to reduce the p. and 1.
debit to £8405.
The parent co.’s balance-sheet shows a
net tangible cover of £l4 Bs. sd. for the
£1 prefs. and 88s. lid. for the f.-p. £1
ords. The ords. last sold at 60s. 6d. to
return 5.7 p.c. from a Yl\ p.c. distribu-
tion, the prefs. at 245. 6d. returning
7.3 p.c.
Queensland Trading & Holding Co.
T'OURT approval for the reduction of
capital having been sought and
obtained in December last year, the
Queensland Trading and Holding Co.,
Ltd. (formerly the Queensland Meat
Export Co., Ltd.) earlier this year pro-
ceeded with its plan to return to share-
holders 14s. of each f.-p. 15s. share.
The move, which involved the repay-
ment of all but £32,749 of the £491,232
share-capital, followed the sale in 1955
of the co.’s main assets in Australia, the
Ross River (Townsville) meatworks and
the South Brisbane factory, to an un-
named buyer (believed, however, to be
British meat co., Vesteys, Ltd,) for
£787,500, £205,510 more than they were
entered in the books.
The extent of the return, plus the size
of the interim div. (equal to 4s. 6d. a
share), was more than had been looked
for, and following the co.’s announce-
ment of its intentions in October, the
price of the scrip touched 375. 9d. (as
against 21s. 6d. earlier in the year).
What rate of dividend can be expected
in the future is uncertain. Last year’s
interim (the only payment for the term)
was financed mainly from £77,686
profits arising from the liquidation of
£li-million meat-stocks and £62,036 divi-
dends and interest on investments,
which included a majority interest in
Northern Manufacturers Pty., Ltd., sold
during the year to the Queensland Can
Co., Ltd.
The chief remaining assets are the
£506,187 shareholding in the Singapore
Cold Storage Co. (estimated market-
value, £611,871), shares in other cos.
shown at cost, less amounts written-off,
at £33,950, and loans and cash on hand
and on fixed deposit, which amounted to
£738,784 on November 30:
1954. 19 >5. 1956.
Paid capital .. £491,232 £491,232 £491,232
Reserves .. .. 424 r 214 - 4'47,599 724,092
Overdraft .. .. 636,671 1,196,477
Advances on ship-
ments .. .. 437,633
Creditors, etc. .. 213,177 224,541 65,698
Final div. . . 49,123
£1,765,294 £2,846,605 £1,281,022
Freehold, plant, etc. 595,092 581,990 1,394
Shares Singapore
Co. ... .. 506,187 506,187 506,187
Shares subsidiary.. 75,000 75,000
Shares other cos... 6,063 6,063 33,950
Stocks, livestock, etc. 491,909 1,156,252 465
Debtors .. .. 90,043 520,113 242
Cash, loan .. —.— 738,78 4
Intangibles .. 1,000 1,000
£1,765,294 £2,846,605 £1,281,022
After adjusting for the £458,483 capital
returned, net tangible asset cover (book-
values) 235. Id., of which 6s. 7d. is
represented by cash and money on loan.
Trading operations ceased last year,
but the co.’s new title suggests the board
has some activity or other in mind. The
sharemarket displays its interest by pricing
the Is. scrip at 17s. 9d.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd.
TNCREASED costs “on every hand”
A prevented Gibson- and Howes, Ltd.,
from receiving any benefit last term from
higher sugar prices and a record output.
A sugar-grower and -miller, Gibson
and Howes owns the Bingera sugar
plantation and mill in the Bundaberg
district of Queensland. A reliable profit-
winner and dividend-payer, the co. added
a one-for-two bonus-issue to its invest-
ment record in 1954 and now has a paid
capital of £630,000, all in £1 ords.
The world market-price for sugar
firmed during 1956, and last November
the British Commonwealth Sugar Agree-
ment was extended for a year (to
December, 1964), the negotiated price for
1957 being increased from £stg4o 15s. to
£stg42 3s. 4d. Australia’s quota, at this
price, was reduced from 314,000 tons to
300,000 tons of sugar, but adjustments
under the International Sugar Agreement
lifted the total export-quota for 1956 from
600,000 tons to 619,177 and the higher
figure will also apply in 1957. Last year
deficiencies in other Commonwealth
countries enabled Australia to exceed her
export-quota by 54,952 tons. Local sugar-
mills are also allotted production quotas,


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
C.l. Australian and Overseas Patents
and Trade Marks.— Advt.
Gain a higher income
with complete security!
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
5X%
LOAN
Is Your GOVERNMENT-GUARANTEED
Investment for 5, 10 or 20 years!
As a Loan investor you will profit steadily year
after year. The N.S.W. Government guarantees
that your interest will be paid every six months—
on Ist December and Ist June—and your principal
refunded in full when the Loan matures. You
have the option of gaining this 5£ per cent,
annually for 5, 10 or 20 years.
Trust Funds can be invested as well as savings:
the Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in
N.S.W., Queensland, Western Australia and
Tasmania.
Your investment, regular interest payments and
repayment at maturity are free of exchange in
terms of the Prospectus.
APPLY NOW-
LOAN CLOSES NEXT SATURDAY!
Apply at any Commonwealth Trading Bank
through.a Stockbroker or at the Sydney Water
Board offices. If you wish, your interest may be
credited direct to your bank account.
Loan No. 175, issued at par, is underwritten by
lAN POTTER & CO.
or “mill peaks,” and receive a
price for their sugar based on
the price obtained for all
“quota,” or No. 1 Pool, pro-
duction. Sugar produced in
excess of these quotas is pur-
chased at a much lower figure.
During the year to December
31 last Gibson and Howes
crushed a record 359,325 tons
(up 41,237 tons) of cane for
45,500 tons (up 6600 tons) of
sugar, 8450 tons more than the
mill peak. The estimated over-
all price for raw sugar rose by
28s. 1 Id. per ton:
Overall
Season. No. 1 Pool. Average.
1951 ..£34 7 4 £34 7 6
1953 .. 43 8 3 42 7 11
1954 .. 42 9 11 41 4 9
1955 .. 42 14 2 42 6 6
1956 .. 45 7 6* 43 15 5*
* Estimate.
An increase in the home-con-
sumption price and a larger
volume of exports contributed
to the higher returns.
A steep increase in Queens-
land rail-freights and labor and
material costs, however,
absorbed all the extra income,
and more, the net profit for the
year slipping by £7134 to
£83,556 after setting aside
£53,092 (up £2930) for deprecia-
tion and an unspecified amount
for taxation:
Net Re-
Dec., Profit. f —Dividends— s serves.*
£ £ £
1951.. 38,795 11 p.c. = 36,099 187,904
1952.. 60.310 12 „ ~42,840 205,374
1953.. 83.675 15 „ ~59,852 229,197
Asset revaluation reserve,
£210,000 • .. .. 439,197
Res. capitalised, £210,000 229.197
1954.. 99.783 12 p.c. = 75,600 253,380
1955.. 90.690 12 „ ~75,600 268,470
1956.. 83.556 12 „ ~ 75,600 276,426
* Excludes provision for- depreciation,
£553,039 at 31/12/’56.
An' unchanged 12 p.c. div.
took over 90 p.c. of the lower
earnings, which equalled a
return of 13.2 p.c. on ord.
capital compared with 14.3,
15.8, 20 and 16 p.c., back to
1952.
To help finance improve-
ments to the mill, mainly re-
sponsible for last term’s
£122,818 increase in fixed-
assets, the co. stretched its
overdraft by £63,954:
1955. 1956.
Paid capital ..£630,000 £630,000
Reserves .. 268,470 276,426
Depreciation
provision .. 508,515 553,039
Overdraft .. 298,801 362,755
Sundry creditors* 359,976 349,026
Staff fund .. 16,146 14,807
Final divs. .. 44,100 44,100
£2,126,008 £2,230,753
Freeholds, plant,
etc 1,539,171 1,661,989
Investments .. 13,844 13,844
Stocks .. .. 499,079 425,607
Debtors .. .. 29,232 85,157
Govt, securities.. 43,200 43,200
Cash, etc. .. 1,482 956
£2,126,008 £2,230,753
* Including provision for taxation.
Stocks (at co. valuations) fell
sharply, but the £73,472 drop
was accompanied by a sudden
rise in book-debts, up £55,925
to £85,157.
Weather conditions in the
Bundaberg district have been
causing some concern recently,
and the co. is dependent on
local growers to fill the mill
peak (its own plantation is
served by an extensive irriga-
tion system). Apart from this,
prospects for the current term
seem promising. The mill peak
has been lifted from 37,000
tons to 39,000 tons and a high
average price for exports seems
assured.
The market prices the co.’s
f.-p. £1 ords. at 445. 3d. to
yield 5.4 p.c. from a 12 p.c.
div. Net tangible cover is 28s.
9d. excluding depreciation
reserve.
H. B. Selby Aust., Ltd.
■pORMED in 1949 to acquire
the share-capital of two
associated pty. cos., H. B.
Selby Australia, Ltd., controls
a business originally established
in 1903. Through its sub-
sidiaries the co. handles test-
chemicals and imports, manu-
factures and distributes
scientific instruments and
laboratory equipment.
Mining cos. were among the
largest purchasers of test-equip-
ment early in the century, but
a substantial section of the co.’s
turnover is now represented by
sales to colleges, universities
and industrial laboratories.
The group has expanded
rapidly since the formation of
the holding co., doubling its
assets in less than five years,
and now owns freehold
properties in all mainland
States. New premises were
completed in Brisbane last year,
and a modern six-story office-
block and warehouse is now
being erected on a valuable
site in the city area of Sydney.
Up to the end of last term
the co. had relied mainly on
bank-advances and mortgage-
loans to finance the expansion
programme, although there was
a small (£45,680) par-issue to
shareholders in 1952, one new
ord. being offered for every
five held. Further funds, how-
ever, were required, and in the
current term £150,000 has been
raised by the issue of 7 p.c.
notes, participating to 9 p.c.,
maturing in 1966. The co. has
the right to redeem the notes
in 1964 at £lO2 or in 1965 at
£lOl. Concurrently with the
note-issue shareholders were,
offered 280,000 ss. ords. at par,
on a one-for-two basis. The
new scrip will be fully paid
by next October when paid


*
01
UAL
ATER
WATER SOFTENERS
For the home
In industry
in Hurd Wester Arens
© Steam Raising Plants for Hospitals.
© Manufacturing Processes.
© Manual, Semi-automatic, Fully Automatic.
© Specialised equipment for Farm and Station
Purposes.
NITRITE Water Filters
Clear, crystal water for
every purpose. The home,
Institute use, Industry,
.Swimming Pools, Town
Supply. Specialised equip-
ment for Farm and Station
purposes.
DEIONIZATION
This makes it possible to
obtain a water which is
the equivalent of a triple
distilled water, free from
all dissolved solids, and at
*a fraction of the cost of
distillation.
W. G. UTTING & CO. PTY. LTD,.
T. & G. Building,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE. 88998 - 85097
Contractors to State and Commonwealth Governments.
Manufacturers of all types of Water Treatment
Plants, both Industrial and Domestic.
capital, all in ords., will reach
£345,000.
Import-restrictions have not
hampered the group to any
great extent, and an increasing
proportion of turnover is
manufactured by the wholly
owned subsidiary, Analite Pty.,
and other local manufacturers.
Record sales for the year to
June 30 last were reported by
all branches, but higher operat-
ing costs (particularly wages)
took most of the increase in
income, leaving only a small
improvement in net profit, up
£390 to £47,267: .
Re-
Juno, Profit. —-Dividends serves.*
‘ £
1951. .24,062 8 p.c. = 18,020 5,492
1952. . 25.8Q1 8 „ ~19,414 11,879
1953.. 34.656 9 „ ~ 24,667 21,868
Profit sale assets £lll4 .. 22.982
1954.. 37,295 10 p.c. = 27,500 32,777
Profit sale assets, £25,382.. 58,159
1955. .46,877 10 p.c. = 27,500 77,536
1956.. 10 „ ~ 27,500 97,303
* After deducting intangibles, £12,321
at June 30, 1954, written-out of the
accounts in the 1955 term.
The earnings, claimed after pro-
viding £32,792 (up £1277) for
taxation and £7107 (up £446)
for depreciation, equalled a
fraction under 17.2 p.c. of the
paid capital, compared with 17,
13.5, 12.6 and 10.6 p.c. in the
four preceding years. The 10
p.c. div. will call for £34,500,
1954 was unaltered. When the
new issue is fully paid a 10
p.c. div. will call for £34,500,
or £12,767 less than last term’s
earnings, the 9 p.c. interest due
to note-holders, in this event,
amounting to £13,500.
The steady expansion of the
co. and the growing—but not
excessive—proportion of out-
side money in the business can
be seen from a comparison of
balance-sheets:
Consolidated Balance-sheet,
1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £275,000 £275,000
Reserves .. 77,536 97,303
Mortgage .. 40,000 88,500
Overdraft .. 85,460 94,419
Creditors .. 71,294 92.786
Tax provision .. 37,248 45,397
Final dividend .. 16,500 16,500
£603,038 £709,905
Freeholds .. 185,481 240,590
Plant .. 37,099 38,111
Stock .. 242.383 278,223
Debtors .. 135,952 149,674
Cash 2.123 3,302
£603,038 £709,905
Extensions to the manufactur-
ing offshoot’s Sydney premises
last term and work on the new
Brisbane office contributed to
the £55,109 increase in the
book-value of freeholds, which,
incidentally, is roughly £67,000
below an independent valuation
made in the current term. To
cover the capital-expenditure
and carry an extra £35,845 in
stocks and £13,722 in debtors,
the co. borrowed a further
£8959 from the bank and an
additional £48,500 under mort-
gage. Since balance-date the
mortgage - loan has been
increased by £22,000.
It will .be some time before
funds raised by the note- and
share-issues become revenue-
producing, but the co. is now
receiving some return from
earlier capital-expenditure and
a “continued improvement in
turnover” was reported in the
first few months of the current
term.
The contribs. (paid to 2s.
6d.) last sold at 4s. 6d. The
f.-p. ssv ords. sell at Bs. to return
6.2 p.c. from a 10 p.c. div. At
June 30 last net tangible assets
provided a cover of 6s. Id. for
the ords. and 3s. 7d. for the
contribs.
Peninsula Tin, N.L.
T IMITED reserves and
_L ' “exorbitant” demands
from the local labor uriion have
caused directors of the 31-year-
old Peninsula Tin, N.L., to
investigate “the possibility of
disposing of its assets in
Thailand,” with the “ultimate”
object of winding-up the co.
Peninsula Tin recommenced
dredging for tin at Langsuan,
Thailand, in 1949, after a seven-
year break caused by the 1939-
45 war. Check-boring carried
out some time ago indicated
that reserves were sufficient to
keep the dredge Operating
profitably until 1959. The
ground dredged over the last
year or so, however, has proved
hard in places, and values have
been very patchy. Mechanical
failures and labor troubles have
increased the co.’s difficulties,
and a net loss of £22,971 was
incurred during the year ended
April 30, ’56. Last turn’s
accounts have yet to be pub-
lished, but the board has stated
that the dredge “was not able
to work at a profit.” Paid
capital is £199,387 in f.-p. 15s.
shares.
Shareholders last received a
div. in March, 1955 (Is. a
share), and, if the directors
proceed with the liquidation of
the co., they should receive
something back from their
original investment although
there seem to be a lot more
dredges for sale in Malaya and
Thailand than there are buyers
at the moment.
Buyers recently offered 2s.
6d. for the scrip, but sellers
are holding out for 55., valuing
the co. at £66,462. Twelve
months ago current assets
(including £60,451 in spares)
exceeded liabilities by £141,318.
Australian Uranium Corp.
T ACK of funds forced Aus-
tralian Uranium Corp.,
N.L., to suspend operations at
the Adelaide River (N.T.)
uranium - mine three months
ago, and the co. has now
accepted an offer, made by the
Atomic Energy Commission, to
arrange for an examination of
the mine by the Bureau of
Mineral Resources.
An assessment of ore -
reserves is the prime object of
the examination, and the co.
will, if necessary, consider a
drilling programme aimed at
establishing the extent of the
ore-bodies.
Oxide Rutile, N.L.
A POOR response to the first
call (3d. a share) made by
Oxide Rutile, N.L., has forced
the co. to abandon its plans for
developing, in conjunction with
Shaw River Alluvials, N.L., a
rutile-bearing area at Kempsey,
N.S.W. The call was payable
in July, 1956, but the decision
to withdraw from the agree-
ment with Shaw River Alluvials
was not announced until early
this month.
The co.’s interest in the
options held in the Kempsey
area will be taken-over by Shaw
River, 50,000 ss. shares in that
co. going to Oxide Rutile as
consideration. A further £2OOO
is payable in cash within two
years of the options being
exercised.
An unsuccessful search for
uranium in the Northern
Territory followed the forma-
tion of Oxide Rutile (then
known as Uranium Oxide,
N.L.) in 1954, and the co. has
since turned to rutile-prospect-
ing on the east coast of N.S.W.
Investments include a one-sixth
interest in Isa Syndicate, N.L.,
and 20,000 ss. shares in Wood-
side (Lakes Entrance) Oil Co.,
N.L.
The 1,800,000 2s. shares
issued by the co. are called to
9d., sellers currently asking up
to 4d. for the scrip.


of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
tha well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW E nvelopes
in sizes 5f ins. x 3£ ins.,
61 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan
Pty.
Ltd.
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturint Stationers and Printers
304 -308 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
T ABOR’S election pro-
gramme has now been
formulated and will soon be
projected. The traditional
Socialist tenet of outright
“nationalisation of all the
means of production, distri-
bution and exchange” has never
impressed Mr. Gaitskell. It
is too blatantly doctrinal,
altogether too bald,
Nevertheless it® is unlikely
that the result of the delibera-
tion and compromise which has
taken up so much of the Labor
leaders’ time will, in essential
purport, be startlingly different
from previous policy - state -
ments. Even if the policy-
makers repudiate old-fashioned
nationalisation, the need .to
win-over the hard core of die-
hards and Bevanites will
reintroduce such familiars as
State control, equalisation of
incomes and “soak the rich.”
The new idea, ascribed to
Mr. Gaitskell's subtlety, is to
advance stealthily into the
realm of corporate enterprise.
It is a twofold plan. On the
one hand, a State Investment
Authority would take over
equity shares and other
tangible wealth such as real
estate in lieu of death-duties.
And on the other, a State cor-
poration would seek control of
industrial concerns by take-
over bids. Assuming that a
Labor Government is returned
with an effective majority, such
opposition as might naturally
be encountered from share-
holders, boards of directors,
employees and public opinion
would be lightly swept aside by
the passage of an enabling bill
establishing the necessary com-
pulsory powers. The new cor-
poration, nicely planted with
stooges, would then, again with
stealth, direct its attention to
the most prosperous concerns.
In other words, selective
nationalisation.
Pensions for All
The life-offices are very
much concerned about the
plans for extending the State
pension-scheme which are test-
ing the ingenuity of both main
political parties. It is expected
that Labor’s electioneering
trump-card will be the slogan
“Retire on Half-pay” a
selling-point which the Con-
servatives can’t ignore.
For a long time the English
and Scottish life-offices have
jointly conducted a publicity
campaign, chiefly with the
object of stimulating public
awareness of the worth of
their service. They have now
produced a pamphlet, “Retire-
ment Pensions,” which is being
widely distributed, especially
among firms that have
inaugurated occupational
schemes.
This pamphlet exposes the
actuarial unsoundness of State
schemes. It points out that the
gap, to be filled by the tax-
payer, in the National
Insurance annual account
between benefits and contribu-
tions is estimated to grow from
£5 million in 1956-57 to over
£4OO million in 1979-80, and
argues that this method of
financing is inflationary and
that it discourages personal
saving. (Since these figures
don’t include the cost of family
allowances, national assistance
and the National Health Service
but only the present basic pen-
sions—maximum £3 ss. per
week at 65—the extension to
provide for pensions of between
£4OO and £750 a year is tanta-
mount to statistical nightmare.)
A further realisation is that,
if the scheme is not related to
contributions (in which case it
could not come into operation;
for about 40 years), the younger
workers would have to pay for
the increased pensions of the
already-retired and for those
of the older workers. That is
to say, a hefty deficiency would
roll-up and would ultimately
have to be met by - the tax-
payer.
Understandably, a note of
anxiety the practical
commonsense of the argu-
ments. How, for example, will
members of existing schemes
react when they discover that
others who have contributed
nothing previously are more
generously treated by the State
than themselves? As to the
criticism that pension schemes
“operate to restrict the mobility
of labor” the pamphlet points
out that one reason for institut-
ing a scheme is “to encourage
the retention of employees,”
but concedes that, “if it Were
thought desirable in the
national interest, the preserva-
tion of pension rights could,
within reasonable limits, be
introduced into private arrange-
ments.”
To draw a moral it would
seem that (a) one can have
too much of a good, thing ; and
(b) a new Gresham’s law might
apply: when political exigency
overrides sound business prac-
tice, the unsound drives out the
sound.
Stylish Horror
A double bill presenting
Shakspeare’s worst tragedy
and worst comedy might seem
a strange choice for a birthday
tribute. In the event, the per-
formance represents a manifold
triumph for the Old Vic Com-
pany. Two more “difficult”
plays are notched on the tally.
The idea of compressing them
into one evening is a clever one,
for it makes light of many
snags. Artistically, the contrast
enables the Vic to show-off its
now-considerable talent. More-
over, the performance of the
tragedy proves that the com-
pany can independently hold its
own with a notable Stratford-
on-Avon production, headed by
Laurence Olivier, soon to tour
the Continent.
The plays—‘Titus Androni-
cus’’ and “The Comedy of
Errors”—have the same setting,
which is simple to the point of
ugliness, looking rather like a
stylised cattle-market. It is
meant to be quasi-original. The
costumes, too, are Elizabethan.,
“Titus” is so monstrous that
one false note could plunge
the audience into hysterics.
Walter Hudd’s production is
delicately poised between the
pitfalls of grotesqueness and
absurdity, avoiding them by a
hair’s-breadth. But it does
avoid them. Vengeance, murder,
treachery, lust and malice are
exemplified by all manner of
horrors: hands and tongues
cut out, heads cut off —even to
cannibalism with a mother
eating her dead sons’ flesh.
In no way do the actors
underrate their parts. Derek
Godfrey (whose lachimo
earlier in the season has earned
an award) rather underplays
Titus as a grave, cunning,
imperturbable grandee. Keith
Michell again proves his art of
character - showing without
character-acting by a particu-
larly evil, sensuous, thick-
lipped Moor. Robert Help-
mann’s Mephistophelian Satur-
ninus, Barbara Jefford’s
intensely impassioned Tamora
and John Humphry’s ennobled
Publius are well supported by
corporate acting of keenness
and vigor.
In the comedy, an over-
worked joke about two sets of
twins, the same actors appear
to enjoy the relaxed contrast.
Max to Music
“Zuleika,” musical version
of Max Beerbohm’s novel,
has reached the Saville Theatre
after an unusually turbulent
passage. It is a pleasant
Edwardian pastiche, excep-
tionally well-dressed, in which
the song-and-dance is enlivened
with good acting. David Mor-
ton’s kindly hauteur as the
Duke of Dorset is evocative of
the days when a Lord,
especially in Garter robes, was
really a Lord. Peter Wood-
thorpe brings a Yorkshire
accent, a worried look and a
neat sense of comedy to Noaks.
And the last-minute “lead,”
Mildred Mayne, if falling short
of Zuleika’s drowning magic
(of allure as well as of hand),
has presence, verve and per-
sonality.
James Ferman’s lyrics are
good-average, and Peter Tran-
chell’s music is tuneful, if
derivative. Charles Mackerras,
who is also responsible for the
orchestrations, conducts from
the pit.


Australian Loan Council
HOW IT BEGAN AND HOW IT WORKS
ON Thursday the Australian
Loan Council will get together
for its annual session of snatch,
grab and wrangle. The meetings
are held in private, but the decisions
arrived at are very much the concern of
the public, as they affect the spending-
power of State and Federal Governments
for the ensuing year.
The Loan Council had its origin in the
recognition of the necessity for co-opera-
tion in the raising of public loans. Its
object was to avoid undue competition
and clashing between rival Governments
in search of finance. The old system of
open-go, with each Treasurer trying to
borrow what he could, where he could,
was all very well in times of plentiful
cheap money, but after the First World
War loan-money was nether plentiful nor
cheap—some estate Governments had
paid up to 7y per cent, for loans—and
there was the spectacle of States trying
to outbid each other for the limited
amount of loan-money available. The
Federal Government, which had gone
into the borrowing business during the
war, took a grim view of this, especially
as large slabs of war-loan were falling
due for conversion.
E«rly Beginnings
At the urging of the Federal Govern-
ment the Loan Council, consisting of the
Treasurers of the States and the Com-
monwealth, was set up and held its first
meeting on February 1, 1924; agree-
ment was reached on the terms of loans
to be issued in 1924-25. Local loan-
raising was controlled by the Council in
those two years and has been ever since;
from June, 1925, overseas borrowing was
also controlled by the Council. N. S.
Wales, then experiencing its first bout of
Lang Government, withdrew from the
Council in August, 1925, but rejoined two
years later, on the accession to office of
the Bavin Government.
In its early years the Loan Council
was a voluntary body, but after the pass-
ing of the Financial Agreement Act in
1929, it was vested with full Constitutional
authority. This Act had been authorised
by the State Debts referendum, one of
the few referendums to be agreed to by
the electors. Under the Financial Agree-
ment the Commonwealth took over the
liability to the bondholders for all State
debts, the States paying interest thereon
to the Commonwealth. Prior to the
Agreement only West Australia had a
satisfactory sinking-fund policy, but the
Act established a sinking-fund covering
all loans, State and Federal Governments
contributing to it.
The Council Today
As now constituted the Loan Council
consists of the Prime Minister (or his
deputy, in recent years usually
Treasurer Fadden) and the six Premiers.
Each Government submits to the Council
a programme setting out the sum it wishes
to raise by loans —apart from conversions
and redemptions. Revenue-deficits for
the previous year must be included, but
the Commonwealth is not required to
include loans for defence —not that this
has had any significance in recent years,
as defence, like Federal works, has been
financed out of revenue. If the Council
feels that it is not feasible to raise the
amount of loan-money desired by the
seven Governments at reasonable rates
and conditions, it decides what amount
should be borrowed and it may,
by unanimous decision, allocate
that amount among the Common-
wealth and States. If a unani-
mous decision cannot be reached, the
Agreement provides that the Common-
wealth is entitled to one-fifth of the total
amount; the remainder is split-up among
the States in proportion to their respec-
tive loan-expenditure for the previous five
years.
Even when the Loan Council was first
mooted it was realised that to be fully
effective it would also have to exercise
some control over loan-raisings by semi-
government bodies. At first this consisted
merely of notifying the Council of any
large borrowings. Since 1936, however,
a “gentlemen’s agreement” has provided
for submission to the Council by the
Premiers of annual loan-programmes of
all semi-government authorities propos-
ing to raise more than £lOO,OOO in the
course of the year. These are considered
in conjunction with the main loan-
programmes.
Voting-powers
On all questions requiring a majority
vote the Commonwealth representative
has two votes and, as chairman, a casting-
vote ; each State has one vote. Thus
the scales are weighted very considerably
in favor of the. Commonwealth’s view-
point. If the States are divided 3-all the
Commonwealth’s two votes decide the
issue ; even if four Premiers oppose the
Commonwealth the chairman’s casting-
vote still gives Canberra the verdict. To
defeat the Commonwealth representative
it is necessary for five of the six Premiers
to combine against him.
Most of the Premiers have at one time
or another complained of the voting
strength of the Commonwealth at Council
meetings. On a couple of occasions they
have not only complained, but have com-
bined to outvote the Federal Treasurer in
fixing the amount of the loan-programme.
The gestures have been futile. It is one
thing to fix a figure for loan-raising,
but it is quite another to find the money.
For several years now the Federal
estimates of the capacity of the loan-
market have been far more accurate than
those of the States, which, in some cases,
seem to have been based more on
optimism than anything else. The respon-
sibility of raising the loans rests, with the
Commonwealth so that, no matter what
sum the Council agrees on, unless the
Commonwealth can borrow it or provide
it from its own resources, the States just
don’t get it.
Whose Money?
At the present time Canberra has the
thick end of the stick in these financial
arguments. It holds all the big-money
cards and it can remind the Premiers that
not only has it given the States the entire
proceeds of all loans raised in the past
six years, but it has also supplemented
the loan-market money with large sums
out of its own revenue. In the period
1951-56 this assistance amounted to £370
million, to which something like £5O-60
million will be added by the end of this
financial year. To this the Premiers reply,
“Yes, but you’re charging us interest on
the money, which is really tax-money
overcollected from our taxpayers. In-
stead of lending it to us at interest, you
should be giving it to us in the form of
supplementary grants.” They have also
advanced the argument that if the Com-
monwealth Government reduced its taxes
by the amount of its surplus the money
thus left in the hands of the community
would be available for investment in
public loans. It would undoubtedly be
available for that purpose, but the Federal
Treasurer remains singularly unconvinced
that the money would be so invested.
But whether they like the present
system or not it seems that the Premiers
have little option but to continue to
make the best they can of it. A sub-
clause of the Constitution referring to the
Financial Agreement says that “it may be
varied or rescinded by the parties there-
to.” Apparently the operative word is
“parties” and no State can vary or
rescind the agreement off its own bat,
as Lang found out when he tried to do
so in 1932.
The pattern nowadays is for the
Premiers to ask for considerably more
than they got the previous year and for
the Federal Treasurer to protest that
there’s no hope of raising the amount they
claim, even with help from Federal
coffers. Then, after much acrimonious
argument and an adjournment for lunch,
the Premiers submit an amended figure,
lower than their first but higher than the
Treasurer’s. The Treasurer either sticks
to his guns or discovers another £lO
million of trust-money he has apparently
overlooked. More protests, then the
Council either adopts the Treasurer’s
“last word” or outvotes the Common-
wealth and agrees to the amended
Premiers’ figure. It doesn’t really make
any difference. Their expenditure will
still be limited to the amount of loan-
money that can be raised, plus the
Federal handout. That has been the
pattern for several years, and there’s no
reason to think there will be much
departure from it at Thursday’s meeting.


THE MUTUAL LIFE & CITIZENS’ ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
The seventieth Annual Meeting of the Company was held in Sydney on the 9th May, 1957.
The Chairman, Sir Henry Manning, in moving the adoption of the Report, Balance Sheet
and Accounts, said:-
“With your concurrence, I
shall adopt our usual course of
taking the Annual Report,
Balance Sheet and Accounts as
read.
“Our Seventieth Year has
been an outstanding one in the
Company’s development. The
total new business written, viz.,
£68,309,124, was a record. In-
terest earnings have continued
to improve, and, notwithstand-
ing the expansion to which I
shall refer latejr, the business
has been managed at an even
lower expense rate than in
1955. I am pleased to be able
to announce very considerable
bonus increases amounting in
some cases to as much as 20%
in the rates of bonus which the
Company has been able to de-
clare in both the Ordinary and
the Industrial Branches.
“The number of policies in
force at the close of the year
in the life assurance depart-
ments totalled 1,598,300, and
inclusive of bonuses these
policies covered amounts total-
ling £479,000,000. This figure
represents a growth of nearly
£45,000,000 during the past 12
months, an increase of more
than 10%.
CLAIM PAYMENTS
“During the year we paid to
the relatives and dependants of
policyholders who had died a
sum of £1,901,494. In very
many cases there was little else
to provide for the needs of the
beneficiaries than the proceeds
of the life assurance policy. We
are pleased to have been asso-
ciated for several years with
other leading Life Offices in The
Life Insurance Medical Re-
search Fund of Australia and
New Zealand, the object of
which is to promote and assist
scientific and medical research.
The results are expected to im-
prove health and longevity, but
notwithstanding all endeavours,
there are many each year who
meet an untimely death and who
can provide for their dependants
only through the services made
available to them by the Life
Offices. In come cases claims
arise shortly after the policies
are effected. This emphasises
the unique nature of a life
assurance contract in that a
substantial estate may be
created by the payment of only
one premium.
“During the year we paid to
living policyholders a sum of
£4,648,751, the total claim pay-
ments being £6,550,245. Since
its inception the total amount
paid to policyholders by the
Company has now reached
almost £100,000,000. It gives
us satisfaction to settle maturity
claims which often mean so
much in the everyday life of
policyholders, for example, in
the provision of moneys for the
Secondary or University edu-
cation of children, travel abroad
or funds with which to enjoy
retirement.
TAXATION CONCESSION
“We note with pleasure the
Commonwealth Government’s
decision to increase from £2OO
to £3OO per annum the deduc-
tion which may be claimed for
income tax purposes in the pay-
ment of premiums on life assur-
ance and contributions to Staff
Superannuation Funds by indi-
vidual taxpayers. This has
proved to be a real encourage-
ment to many to provide addi-
tional protection for those de-
pendent upon them a very
necessary step in these times of
inflation. It also assists in the
National effort to maintain the
stability of our currency by
providing an additional in-
centive for saving.
ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS
INSURANCE
“I mentioned last year that
the Company’s Australian pros-
pectus for Accident and Sick-
ness Insurance had been entirely
revised. It is pleasing to report
a very considerable growth in
this class of business during the
year. There is evidence of
growing awareness in the com-
munity of the risk of accidents
to which we are all exposed in
addition to sickness. There is
also a growing recognition of
the desirability of effecting such
insurance as is necessary ade-
quately to protect families
against total loss of income
should the breadwinner become
incapacitated.
INCOME, ASSETS AND
INVESTMENTS
“The Balance Sheet indicates
that the Company’s Assets rose
during the year to more than
£134,000,000, the amount of
the increase for the year being
£12,455,711. Income totalled
£22,936.453, an increase of
£2,237,926 over the previous
year, a striking indication of
the growth of the Company. In
rapidly expanding economies
such as we have in Australia
and in New Zealand there is a
constant call for funds for in-
vestment indeed, the demand
for finance has far outstripped
the supply at present available.
With a continuation of our pro-
gramme of immigration and
National development this diffi-
culty is likely to continue and
can only be solved by the in-
vestment of overseas capital and
by greater savings on the part
of our own people. The Board
recognises its responsibility, not
only to policyholders and share-
holders but also to Australia
and New Zealand in the invest-
ment of the funds under its
control. There is at present a
great demand for funds for
housing, and The M.L.C. has
more than played its part in the
past 12 months in providing
directly nearly £7,000,000 for
this purpose. The remainder of
the funds available has been in-
vested with regard not only to
security but also to the assist-
ance to industries calculated to
play an important part in
National progress. The return
to the Company on its overall
funds continues to improve, and
the net rate in the year under
review in the Ordinary Branch
increased from £4/7/4% to
£4/9/10%.
NEW BUSINESS
“Ordinary Branch New
Business written during the year
totalled £56,456,078, exclud-
ing term assurance, whilst In-
dustrial Branch New Business
amounted to £1 1,853,046. The
total £68,309,124 is the great-
est amount ever written in one
year in the history of the Com-
pany. As in previous years
much of this new business has
been written on the lives of ex-
isting policyholders. Whilst we
always welcome those who
come to us for a policy for the
first time, we take special
pleasure in observing how much
of our business comes from
those to whom we are well-
known and who for their part
appear so well satisfied with the
excellent range of ' policies
offered and the service they
receive.
GROUP AND SUPERANNUA-
TION BUSINESS
‘lt is pleasing to report a
steady growth in the number of
Group and Superannuation
Plans which we have arranged
for the benefit of employees of
both large and small businesses.
During the past year we have
been called upon to re-arrange
superannuation benefits in the
light of changing financial cir-
cumstances. We have now
reached a stage in our economy
where most employers of labour
have attempted in some form
or other to provide security for
their employees. This appor-
tionment of some part of each
year’s profits to a fund to pro-
vide benefits on retirement or
for dependants in the event of
earlier death is welcomed by
employees and plays.its part in
the creation of goodwill between
employer and employee.
BUILDINGS
“Since our last Annual
General Meeting modern and
distinctive buildings have been
opened to house the Company’s
staff at Auckland, Brisbane,
Adelaide and Wollongong. Our
new office buildings at North
Sydney and Perth are nearing
completion. A District Office
has been opened at Wanganui,
and another will be opened at
Toowoomba next month. The
construction of similar Offices
for Geelong, Ballarat and Laun-
ceston is well under way. An
ideal site for the erection of
a modern building has been
secured in Canberra and we are
expecting building operations to
commence there in the near
future. This heavy building
programme has been necessi-
tated by the very rapid growth
of the Company in the post-war
period.
MECHANISATION
“Much time and thought
havte been given to the mechan-
isation of a great deal of the
Company’s clerical work, and
during the year important de-
cisions were reached with
regard to future procedure.
The latest types of machinery
have been ordered from over-
seas, and some units have
already been installed. It will
take nearly three years to com-
plete the mechanisation pro-
gramme, but when this is
accomplished much of the
routine clerical work will have
been eliminated and our staff
will then be more easily able to
cope with our rapidly expand-
ing business.
THE FUTURE
“With each succeeding year
The M.L.C. becomes more
deeply rooted in the economies
of Australia and New Zealand.
We are fortunate in having a
clerical staff well capable of
meeting the requirements of our
increasing business, and this,
together with a team of reliable
and energetic field representa-
tives, enables us to look to the
future with every confidence.”
M[?]P


From Some Essays on Fishing
THE PLEASURES
OF POACHING
By DOUGLAS STEWART
THE excellent thing about
New Plymouth Boys’
High School in my day
—for I do not think
anyone can really become a
fisherman without having been
a poacher in his youth : you
must rove the earth till it grows
up through your shinbones;
you must baptise yourself by
total immersion in the ditches
—was that it was still possible,
however firmly we were
supposed to be incarcerated be-
hind the grey walls on the hill
above the town, to live, as
schoolboys should,, like rabbits
and weasels and tomcats.
We heard with amazement
of the lives led by boys at other,
more elegant, colleges such as
Wanganui, where the English
model was followed and wild
creatures such as ourselves,
who should have been shooting
starlings at the slop-barrel with
an air-gun, or raiding the
Chinaman’s garden for the
cucumbers that tasted so
delicious with sugar, or sneak-
ing through the hole in the
hedge to snatch small tight-
lipped kisses from the girls of
Miss Bedford’s Friday-night
dancing-class as one gallantly
“saw them home,” spent the
interminable months between
holiday and holiday wholly
imprisoned in the school-
grounds—or at most let out
for an ignoble walk in a
“crocodile” —with nothing but
organised sport to satisfy their
thwarted animal instincts.
New Plymouth took its
character, and I trust it has not
altogether lost it over the years,
from that tremendous head-
master, Bill Moyes. Bill Moyes
—what a man he was !
Never in my life have I seen
a spectacle quite so awe-
inspiring as those'' mornings
when some njalefactor caught
in the worst of crimes, smoking
or writing notes to the pupils
of the Girls’ High School that
stood chaste and ineffably
mysterious across the river,
was hauled up on the stage
in the big Assembly Hall
for, after prayers, a public
whacking. Other masters
whacked us from time to time,
and we thought nothing of it.
The cardboard back of a
writing-pad slipped down the
seat of the trousers provided,
if it didn’t give the show away
by making too much noise, a
considerable mitigation ; it
was also possible, when gather-
ing the rod from the clump of
bamboos that grew too
conveniently between the
dormitories and the school, to
make a neat, invisible little
incision in it that made it burst
apart after the first two or
three strokes, when it became
as harmless as a straw broom.
But I don’t think anybody
dared to . play those tricks on
Bill Moyes.
All the bristles on his black
bullet-head stood on end. His
dark-brown eyes flashed fire.
His bulldog jaw jutted out
more formidably than ever.
His voice cracked out like a
stockwhip. “You, Murga-
troyd ! Smoking in your dug-
out again ! Come up here !”
And up shuffled Murgatroyd
to the stage where the masters
stood against the wall like a
row of vultures in their black
gowns, abandoning for once
the little scratchings and key-
jinglings we all watched with
such malicious intentness ; and
down went Murgatroyd touch-
ing his toes, the cynosure of a
thousand awed and delighted
eyes ; and swish went back the
headmaster’s gown from his
square shoulders and his
embonpoint, and whack,
whack, whack, usually six of
the best, fell the long green
bamboo, beating the dust from
Murgatroyd’s trousers and the
vice of smoking from his soul.
“And now, all of you !” the
rasping, staccato voice would
crack out, while he glared at
us like a wild black bull from
the stage. “These dug-outs !
Nothing but filthy dens where
you hide yourselves away to
smoke cigarettes. Why don’t
you be a man and smoke a pipe
if you want to smoke ! There‘ll
be no more smoking, see ! And
no more dug-outs. Dismiss !”
There was, too, that soul-
shattering night when, awaiting
a renewed pillow - fighting
assault from the neighboring
dormitory, with which we had
been in uproarious conflict for
half-an-hour, we caught Bill
Moyes in a booby-trap we had
prepared for the invaders ; and
when down on that hard head,
as he burst in rage and
majesty like Olympian Jove
himself through the door,
amidst a scramble and a tumble
and a flying of small boys as
we fled right and left for the
innocence of our beds,
clattered boots and shoes and
clothes - brushes and hair-
brushes and, if an enchanted
memory can be trusted, a
bucketful of water. There was
a mighty cuffing of heads that
night and some sterner reproof
—for we had disturbed the
headmaster in his after-dinner
repose in his own adjoining
house —on the seats of
pyjama - trousers . . . which
form altogether too frail a
buffer.
We stood in great awe of
Bill, but never in fear. For
the public whackings were,
after all, a rare spectacle, and
one in which everyone
delighted; a kind of necessary
boiling-over when the school
became, at intervals, the vol-
cano which always lay under-
neath it—how could you have
any encamping of five hundred
human-beings without volcanic
pressures developing? and
when the headmaster demon-
strated superbly that he, the
one man amongst us all, junior
masters and boys alike, was in
command of the volcano. But
there was humor, more often
than lightning, in those flash-
ing dark eyes ; there was always
a grin, wide and brilliantly
white, waiting to pucker those
majestic features into human-
ity ; above all (I, do not speak
of his scholastic and managerial
attainments—how he made that
school—for we knew nothing
of them) there was the pervad-
ing sense of his manliness. He
smoked a pipe. He went shoot-
ing, and kept at the school a
red setter and a black retriever
which invariably rushed under
the beds in the dormitory when
we had rifle - practice. He
fished for trout.
Had he not practically given
us permission to smoke a pipe
ourselves? (I pass over with a
shudder, as too appallingly
ridiculous to contemplate, the
spectacle of a very small boy,
thin and undersized, embedded
in a huge winter overcoat,
puffing manfully at his pipe as
he strolled back to school from
the town one drizzly dusk;
shoving the implement in haste
into his pocket when he caught
sight of Mr. Blundell, the
drawing-master, also out for a
stroll; and thereupon bursting
into flames . . .)


As to the dug-outs, I don’t
believe that Bill Moyes meant
a word of what he said ; and
I don’t think we believed him
then. No attempt, except by
vandals in our own community,
was ever made to stamp them
out. In my first year at school
these dank and clayey caverns,
the centre of our whole animal
existence, persisted even in the
gully straight below the school,
inhabited by resplendent, tall,
hairy heroes who burst out
roaring into the night when
one investigated them,
thrillingly, by torchlight; and
if later, like other creatures of
the wild retreating before
civilisation, we had to go as
far as the school farm or even
over to the banks of the Te
Henui to dig our burrows,
neither Bill nor any of the
other masters came there to
disturb us.
I should like to be able to
say that it was in our dug-out
under the wattles opposite the
school farmhouse (where lived
a farmer who milked a herd of
cows for us, while over his
green acres roamed the agri-
cultural students on their lordly
legitimate business, and the
rest of us bent on crime) that
our own particular gang of
outlaws comprising, with
myself, Des Carter, Cully Mac-
Diarmid, Cally Callaghan and,
always a. little disapprovingly,
Cardo Evans, cooked the
magnificent four-pound brown
trout I poached from one of
New Plymouth’s public parks:
for that was the sort of thing
Qne did in dug-outs and, cooked
there, would have made the two
supreme events of my school-
days both wholly disreputable.
But the fact is that under Bill
Moyes’s twinkling dark eyes,
fishing was a perfectly legiti-
mate course of study at New
Plymouth; nor, though of
course I lied as to how I caught
the monster, can I think he
would genuinely have frowned
on a bit of poaching.
There was, indeed, a whiff of
illegality in the practice ia
which he encouraged me on
days when, gloriously escaping
from school together, he would
himself take me out fishing: I
would go out early in the
morning and, with my air-gun,
shoot cicadas for him for bait
—a feat of marksmanship in
which I now take an altogether
astonished pride. A smaller
insect than the Australian, and
making a quieter clacking, the
cicadas lurked high up on the
trunks and branches of the
wattles down the gully from
the slop-barrel and, with only
an air-gun pellet in them, could
be brought to earth almost
undamaged. For that matter it
seems thoroughly illegal for a
headmaster and his pupil—and
once, I remember, my English
master, Jaz Leggatt: but surely
that must have been a holiday
•—to sneak out of school and
go fishing.
I never caught any trout
while out with Bill —it was only
my second season of fishing—
but I was proud enough to have
a fine trout come out from
behind a stone and look at my
cicada one day when, wading
some stream up around The
Meeting of the Waters, I got
splendidly sunburned, fishing
without my shirt, while Bill,
who had struck them all on the
feed, caught half a dozen
beauties which I netted for him.
And, as a result of having
enough fish come and look at
my bait from time to time, one
never -to- be - forgotten day,
chancing upon them in a semi-
comatose condition in a
stream running through some
park-land, where doubtless
they had been fed on bread
and never associated the
shadow of man or boy with
anything so barbarous as a
fish-hook, I caught not merely
my first trout, but my first two
trout; and that same day—l
was a fisherman indeed when
I went back to school that
night!—l crawled out on a
log and dropped a worm into
the mouth of a fine perch,
losing it only because I had not
the sense to play it with my
rod but tried to haul it straight
out ’on to the log with the
thin gut cast.
The two trout —unhappy
creatures! both about a
pound in weight, were for some
obscure reason lolling about
on top of the slightly-flooded
stream, gently sucking at leaves
as they floated down the
current, and they gently sucked
in the enormous worm I
dropped at them without the
slightest misgivings ; and, still
trustingly as it were, came in
to the gaff with hardly a pro-
testing flap . . . which was just
as well for my inexperience.
But now I was a fisherman.
And when those two deluded
innocents had been duly
exhibited to the headmaster,
and cooked by the school cook
and served to my own “section”
at our end of one of the long
tables in the dining-room—to
be eaten with what infinite
pride and relish! —and when, a
week or two later, returning to
those same waters of triumph
(nobody ever seemed to patrol
that creek to haul one otf to
prison for poaching what were
surely the municipality’s trout)
I saw, wavering in the clear
water beside a rock, the most
prodigious trout in the world,
I never had any doubt but that
I should catch him.
I tried him with the worm.
He ignored it. I tried him with
a “creeper,” being the larva of
the stone-fly. He ignored it. I
tried him with the Coachman,
which was about the only dry-
fly I had ever heard of in those
days. He ignored it. I tried
him with a monstrous grey-
winged yellow-bellied imita-
tion of the stone-fly, which was
one of those lures sold in
tackle-shops to catch fishermen
and which never took a fish in
its life. Rightly, my great fish
ignored it. And there he still
iay in the shallow sunny water
by his rock, a pale silvery
yellow in hue through some
freak of light or diet, bulging
and immovable. I tried him
with my Wisden minnow, a
beautiful little spotted lure
much in favor in Taranaki. I
swung this deadly bait, bristling
with its triple-hooks at fin and
tail, wide over the current,
dropped it with the inevitable
plop and pulled it across his
nose, ever nearer with each
cast.
No trout can ignore the
minnow. If it will not take
the lure it will at least butt it
out of the way, or at the worst
skitter away from the plop.
But the monster never stirred
for it. Then I realised that,
basking in the sun, my fish was
sound asleep—l do not know
it this is possible in ichthyology,
but it was so. I never saw any-
thing so sound asleep as that
fat trout was. I tried, full of
wickedness, for now I was
poaching indeed, to jag him
with the hooks of the minnow,
but the hooks would not catch ;
and, as for the prickle on his
side, he seemed positively to
enjoy it, wriggling a little in his
slumbers.
No doubt he would have
been a perfect subject for
“tickling,” had I understood
that excellent art. But I got
him in the end more simply
still, by wading quietly out and
hooking him with my gaff—-
whereupon he leapt to life
and, gaff and all, plunged away
from me downstream, and I
plunged after, and found him
again by the bobbing gaff-
handle in deep water, and had
him out safely and superbly at
last, flapping like Leviathan on
the grass ; and so, in the even-
ing, back to school to weigh,
display and devour the four-
pounder I had taken “on the
Coachman.”
If these three trout —my total
bag for the season —being prac-
tically legitimate captures,
could be cooked and eaten in
enviable publicity, there were
others that had to be dealt with
in no less delectable privacy.
The wild pigeon, for instance,
a strictly protected bird, which
1 shot on a pig-hunting week-
end, I prudently offered to
George Bertrand, the mathe-
matics master, with whom,
though he was the most fierce
(Continued on page 49j


Taoma Taoma Tiger
By JACKLUSBY
(Part 111
THE “Post-Record” mid-
day newscast comes on
the hotel radio:
... .hotel proprietor Paul
Malek has offered £lOO for the
capture of the Tooma Tooma
Tiger. Our newsmen on the
spot expect a startling develop-
ment within a matter of hours.
Meanwhile townspeople keep
rifles ready and sleep behind
locked doors. There is terror
in the night at Tooma
Tooma ....
After lunch Heemey puts
more pictures on the mail-car
and Crocker phones the paper.
“Good build-up, Crocker,”
says the voice on the wire.
“Hope it doesn’t build-up to a
loud pop. The girl-picture
makes it front-page today.”
“1 can only go along with
it,” Crocker says into the
phone.
“I’d like to go along with
that girl, mister!”
“My slave,” says Crocker.
“Already she lets me chop fire-
wood and clean the cowshed.”
He hangs up.
drives west
' through the break in the
Horsecollar. A battered
utility passes heading into
Tooma and Hansen gives a
lazy salute.
“Been out on his bread-run,”
Newbound explains. “Has he
tackled you about the cricket-
match?”
“Hasn’t tackled me about
anything. He’is a bit aloof.”
Crocker thinks for a moment.
‘ He’s hard to classify.”
“A sort of lackadaisical
fanatic,” says Newbound.
“Cricket’s one of his bugs. We
play Tangie Creek the day
after tomorrow, Sunday, and
they’re strong. We’ve got a
few good men but a tail like a
goanna.”
“If Hansen offers me a place
in the tail I’ll say yes.”
“Good!”
Newbound points out land-
marks, coloring them with
anecdote, eventually turning
off along a rutted track. There’s
a spread of solid stockyards
under a canopy of dust. Bawl-
ing white-faced cattle.
“Are you buying them?”
asks Crocker.
“No., Looking at a security.
Good chance while they’re
dipping them.”
While Newbound talks to a
stockman Crocker climbs on a
rail and looks down on the
rangy milling beasts, enjoying
the agility and personal anxiety
of a stockman down there on
foot shouting and- flapping his
hat. The man leaps to the
top rail cursing as horns pass
under him.
“You don’t like dipping?”
says Crocker.
“They can -——
their dipping!”
“Seems fair comment,” says
Crocker. “What d’ you think
of this scare down at Toorna?”
“The screamin’ outside the
pub? Mate, I’ve heard that
racket from Warwick t’ Wynd-
ham—some feller’s battleaxe
callin’ ’im home!”
“You’ve heard this one?”
“No, mate, but that’s what
she’d be.”
“You could be right,” says
Crocker.
They drive back, splashing
through pebbly creeks,
undulating along towards the
gap into Tooma, like approach-
ing the gateway of an old
walled city. Crocker asks a few
more questions but Newbound
"shrugs off the Tiger.
“I’ve given up bashing my
brain about it.”
“I’ve got to,” Crocker insists.
“You may as well relax.
Forget the thing till you hear
it. Then you’ll have a point
to think from.”
“You’ve got something
there,” Crocker agrees.
TIIDING the hot gush of sun
through the gap and roll
on to the green verge of the
road at the hotel. Inside, the
cricket-match is the topic.
“We’re having a practice
now,” Hansen tells Crocker.
“Care for a hit?”
“Thanks,” says Crocker,
genuinely pleased.
It’s warm dusk when the
cricketers return sweating and
cheerful. Crocker pats his
sodden paunch, thin green eyes
almost disappearing in his red
face as he grins over the
counter at Rose.
“First honest thirst for
months. Beer, Rose, before
it wears off!”
“You’ll play, then?” says
Hansen.
“Certainly, if I’m still here.”
“You’ll be here all right,”
says Yakka Ritchie. “Just try
and get away!”
“Yeah, now you’re in the
team, obey orders.” Hansen
gives Crocker a proprietary
slap on the back. “Be here!”
Sallow, streamlined young
Heemey appears and dumps
the city papers and a card-
board packet beside Crocker.
“Mail-car’s just back. There’s
your sound-recorder.”
“Sound-recorder! ” Hansen
looks interested.
“For recording sounds,”
Heemey explains.
Crocker’s fat hand flattens
a paper. Filling a quarter of
the front page Rose flames in
her filigree of shadow,
shadow tracing a velvety swell
of fear, fear in the dark-lashed
eyes and touching the vivid
smile.
“Farida flinching from
Farouk,” says Crocker. “Just
right!”
“Just right?” Heemey
explodes. “It’s right out of the
bloody ruck! It’s”
“A fluke. And syndicatable.
You’ll probably get a bonus.
But it makes our follow-up a
bit hard.”
“To hell with the follow-
up!” says Heemey.
All hands applaud the pic-
ture. Rose and Heemey share
the honors. Crocker’s story
establishes a solid mystery and
Malek’s £lOO reward looks like
a leave -no - stone - unturned
gesture rather than a stunt. The
rival “Morning News” plays it
down with brief laughter:
“BUNYIPPEE! Homebrewed
Banshee in Bush Township.”
“Yeah?” says Crocker. “Just
let me get a recording!”
“Stick around —you’ll get it,”
says Yakka.
“I’ve teed-up a blacktracker
Heemey remembers. “He’ll be
here tonight and standing by in
the morning.”
“Think he’ll turn white at
the sound of it?” says Crocker.
“Every little helps.”
■JVTEAR midnight the newsmen
are filling a couple of deck-
chairs on the veranda, jittery
with waiting. The efficient
Nugget dispenses final rounds
in the thinning bar.
Crocker is totally unpre-
pared for the shocking loud-
ness of it. It’s harsh, paralysing,
close !
Screeching-shrill to' belly-
deep, dying in a dinosaur-
deathrattle. Again . . . again
. . . again! Crocker unfreezes
a fist from the side of his chair,
flicks on the recorder beside
him. Again the whalebreath
whistle in shrill crescendo
whipping to an ear-battering
bass blast of sound and the
deathrattle.
The warm black night still
pulses with the hammer-blow
imprint of the sound. It leaves
its mark on the heavy air, the
senses.
Badly shaken, Crocker
becomes aware again of ordin-
ary noises. Explosive human
comment crowds the silence.
Crocker lets the recorder run
on to pick it up. There’s some
horse-frenzy out in the dark.
“That horse’ll wrench its
bloody head off!”
“Wouldn’t you if you’d been
tied! ”
“Quiet, ol’ feller . . . Whoa
there! Quiet, now”
“ ’Ere boy, ’ere boy, ’ere boy,
where are ya, Mick? Awww!
Me dorg’s gorn bush!”
“Why don’t you men do
somethin’? Talk about a lot
o’ useless boozin’ no-hopers—
this thing’s scarin’ me hair
straight”
(Continued on page 45)


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
The unusual happened at
a bookmakers’ (Tattersall’s
Club) race-meeting at Rand-
wick on Saturday—punters
picked the first four winners ;
and in the last three races the
longest-priced winner was Fire
Flash, at 6 to 1.
Several Stradbroke Handi-
cap candidates had an airing
in the Flying Handicap at
Randwick. While the prospects
of Mandingos and Commedia
and, to a lesser degree, the
N.Z. flyer Yahabeebe, were
strengthened, it seems that Gay
Vista, Ma Reine and Arun-
brook would have little chance
up north. Mandingos won
with 8.4, lib. more than his
Stradbroke impost; Com-
media, runner-up, carried his
Q.T.C. weight, 7.11. Both
horses will be improved by
the outing, not that they were
strolling on Saturday: they
covered the six in a slippery
1.10. f
Brisbane has a class sprinter
in Kingship, a winner at his
last three starts, and on those
regarded as a real chance in
the £lO,OOO Stradbroke Handi-
cap. Trained by Fred Best,
Kingship is a six-year-old
horse by Timanova (imp.)
from Blue Lace (imp.). He
carried 9.7 to victory in the
Q.T.C. Flying Handicap last
Saturday ; in the Stradbroke he
has 8.10 lib. less than
Teranyan, but 71b. more than
Mandingos and 131 b. more
than Commedia.
Over the years early- and
late - winter two - year - old
winners have risen sharply to
classic honors in the following
season, and N.Z. owner M. J.
Moodabe is hoping that Lord
Cortauld will be equal to Derby
honors next spring. The
Khorassan (imp.) gelding has
now won three races, the latest
over a mile at the Tattersall’s
meeting with a topweight
8.10. A 1550gns. colt as a
yearling in New Zealand, he
is from Lady Bertha by Lo
Zingaro (imp.) from Podokes
(imp.) by Rock Flint. Lady
Bertha won races to 10 fur-
longs, while Podokes threw
seven winners of 39 races up to
a mde-and-a-half. Lord Cor-
tauld’s lines trace to the family
which produced Phil Drake, a
winner of the 1955 Epsom
Derby and the Grand Prix de
Paris.
New Zealand trainer A. D.
Webster is a keen bowler, and
is a well-known figure on New
Zealand and Australian greens.
In past weeks he’s been bowl-
ing them over with a trim
little filly called No Boots, who
landed her fourth win in as
many starts when she beat
Felstorm and Brimses in
Randwick’s Three-and-Four-
year-old Handicap. Webster
has made more than 30 trips
across the Tasman, his first
about 37 years ago. (Firstacre,
dubbed the “iron-horse,” was
the galloper that brought him
into the limelight.) No Boots
has so far won only over
sprint distances in modest
company, but her displays have
impressed. A rising four-year-
old with a solid breeding back-
ground, she should do well
when she takes on open
company.
Improving on earlier dis-
plays, the three-year-old Gene-
tout (Fr.) gelding Le Poilu
won his first race —Rosehill
mid-week Maiden Handicap;
7} furlongs—in promising
style. Le Poilu could stick a
bit la f er on, as his lines on the
dam’s side trace to Trenton, a
notable sticker in early Turf
history. Genetout won races
to 12 furlongs in Sydney and
was successful in France and
Belgium, being placed in the
French Derby. Marabelle,
dam of Le Poilu. was got by
Marabou from Sea of Gallilee
by Zionist (imp.).
In his last starts
Lindbergh has won twice and
been second twice ; consistent
form. Kingster beat him at
weight-for-age in the A.J.C.
All-Aged Stakes. He then won
the City Tattersall’s Handicap,
was narrowly beaten in the
Lord Mayor’s Cup at Rosehill,
and on Saturday had an easy
win in the James Barnes Plate
at P.andwick. He has gone
kindly for Ray Selkrig, who has
shown keen judgment in
making the pace all the way.
Lindbergh, never regarded as
anything but a sprinter until
recently, may now be set for
the Doomhen Cup in July.
That is run at 1 1 furlongs less
93yds. a distance he should
now get — and the track should
suit him ; he likes to have his
own wav in front ; and he has
the pace to iead any middle-
distance field.
Beaten horses in Lindbergh’s
race Prince Delville and
Cambridge—are to go to Bris-
bane for the two-miles Cup.
They’ll need to show much
better form in the north. In
finishing third, Field Chief ran
his best race since coming from
New Zealand. He had an
excellent record there over long
distances; he’s fairly in the
Brisbane Cup on 8.2.
• • • •
Macdougal, a Brisbane Cup
lightweight (7.1 ; limit, 7.0),
looks a possibility for the two-
miler on his two recent wins
—Maiden and Novice—and a
close second to Squire, all at
Randwick. He won the
Maiden mile, was then second
at 10 furlongs, then won the
Tattersall’s Novice mile-and-a-
quarter like a good horse;
here he had to overcome diffi-
culties, raced wide in the
straight and carried close to
topweight. On breeding Mac-
dougal is a potential sticker,
for he’s a Marco Polo (Fr.)
gelding—and that sire has had
several good stayers and was
a winner at two miles in
England. Lady Fox, dam of
Macdougal, is by Foxbridge
(imp.), a sire whose N.Z.
progeny have won many races
over long distances. Mac-
dougal’s half-brother, Master
Robin, won several races in the
Dominion, and finished second
in the N.Z. Derby. Lady Fox’s
half-sister. Gay Blonde, was a
smart mare. Her successes
included the A.J.C. Craven
Plate and the V.R.C.
Mackinnon Stakes. Mac-
dougal should give the Q.T.C.
St. Leger a shake, if nothing
else.
An Fag J e Farm winner at the
latest Q.T.C. fixture was Gulf
Royal, owned by C. P. Edwards,
who has raced many smart
sprinters. Gulf Royal, a two-
year-old filly by Royal Empire
(imp.) from Royal Inheritance
by Harinero (imp.), won the
Nursery over seven furlongs.
Now trained by Fred Best, she
first raced in Sydney as a
member of Bob Stuart’s Rose-
bery team. He got the filly
ready for a first-up win a
Maiden Nursery at Canterbury
in October.
Form at this time of the year
is not usually a good guide to
the important events of the
spring, but trainer Peter Fergus
believes he has a potential Cud
horse in the three-year-old
staver Royal Djafar. In the
13-furlongs Empire Handicap
at Moonee Valley the Djafar
coll easily followed the pace
to the turn, where he dashed
clear to win comfortably. It
was his second successive vic-
tory over the distance, and
there is no doubt that staying
is his game. His dam, Royal
Myth, won the 14-furlongs
Veteran Stakes at Flemington,
and she was by Solar Bear,
whose progeny are at their best
over a distance. Fergus intends
now to set Royal Djafar for
the Melbourne Cup.
• • • •
Ray Ribbon’s form during
his recent trip to Sydney was
disappointing, but it was con-
sidered his class would tell
against the moderate lot
opposed to him in the mile
Deep Creek Handicap. Sent
out favorite, he looked like
landing the money when he
led clearly on the turn. In the
run down the straight, how-
ever, he was strongly challenged
by country performer Quiberon
and found the task of conced-
ing 301 b. to that gelding just
too much. The winner is a
six-year-old by Wirralie out of
Jaune. He had run-up a string
of country victories before
tackling the city horses. On
Saturday’s performance he
could win again before the
handicapper catches up with
him.
• • • •
New Zealand jockey R.
Skelton once again had to
suffer a vicious demonstration
for his handling of On Parade,
after the six-furlongs Kiata
Handicap. In this writer’s
opinion, there was no justifica-
tion for the attack. Skelton
had his mount in the first four
all the way, handled the tricky
turn into the straight well, and
was quick to switch On Parade
to the rails when the leader,
Cawson, began to drift out.
However, Cawson, with 261 b.
the better of the weights—and
he’d won well at his previous
start down the Flemington
straight six—just managed to
hold the N.Z. sprinter off.
Cawson gets his speed from his
sire, Palm Vista, who had a
good record as a sprinter on
English tracks.
The first division of the
Laluma was rated little more
than an exercise gallop for
Transtar, who had run an
excellent second to Good
Summer at Caulfield the pre-
vious week. He was considered
to have such a mortgage on the
race that he started at 7-to-4
on, with tens bar one on off a r.
However, Transtar turned in a
dismal performance. After
struggling to keep near the
leaders early in the race, he
faded to a distant ninth at the


finish. The race went to
Buxton, an N.Z.-bred gelding
by Sabaean out of Hornet’s
Nest. W. R. Kemball, who
patronises the Dominion sales
each year, paid 600gns. for
Buxton, a very small yearling,
given time to mature before
having his first start last
January.
The fences at Moonee Valley
were re-brushed before the
start of the current jumping
season, and are now the
toughest test in Australia. They
claimed five of the eight
runners in last Saturday’s Mel-
rose Steeple. And excitement
did not end for the crowd when
the jumping business was over:
two of the three runners left
standing, Van Perri and Fran-
stone —the two best-backed
starters —after vying for the
lead from the mile-post, staged
a head-and-head struggle all
the way down the straight. Van
Perri got the decision by a
neck, but all credit for his
win must go to B. R. Smith,
who drove his mount across the
line just when it looked a
beaten horse. The crowd gave
Smith as enthusiastic a recep-
tion as ever a jockey could
wish for. Van Perri has a
wonderful record at Moonee
Valley, having scored there
nine times. In all, he has won
thirteen races and £9525 in
stakes. There’s little chance of
his starting in the National;
he’s shown before that two
miles is as far as he can
manage.
An interesting visitor to
Moonee Valley last Saturday
was W. R. Stead, leading
New Zealand breeder. Few
men have had as much success
at the game. He owns Red
Mars, sire of Redcraze, and
Alonzo, sire of Rising Fast;
so that he bred the best two
geldings to race in this country
since the war.
* * *
Oaks night at Harold Park
on Friday, and, as an act of
courtesy, Bangaroo Lass
probably a good thing beaten in
a very strong Derby field the
previous week appeared,
then almost disappeared from
her opposition, to win by a
great space.
Soon in front, the filly
skipped along to her own pace,
yet registered a fast 2.9 f gait
for the Ilf furlongs. The
books offered fours-on about
her, but didn’t really want any,
and did most of their business
one-two. A speedy-looking,
loose-going light bay, she’s by
Lawn Raider from Bay Dawn
by Minton’s Son from a mare
by Chieftain. For a still raw
filly, she’s the best untapped
potential to pull a trot-gig for
a long spell.
And Sundry Sports
When the country lads came
to town this year for the
annual City-Country Rugby
League match, one would have
expected them to have properly
gone to town, every Jack one
of them out to prove himself
worth a green-and-gold jersey
for the World Cup matches,
to which Australia is this year
host. But the Saturday-
afternoon picnic at the S.C.G.,
“ Look, dear , I just caught it on a silly little hook.”
in which City scraped in, 53-2,
gave no indication of this;
little indication, in fact, of
anything.
The City-slickers, though
they tallied 11 tries and 10
goals, are anything but in-
vincible—as the State matches
against Queensland may yet
prove. Certainly the City side
had the edge in experience, and
certainly the best of the country
footballers are pinched by city-
clubs ; but there must still be
potential enough in the country
to turn on a tenfold better
showing than this.
No City player’s reputation
was put to the test. Kearney
won the scrums ; Barnes kicked
10 nice goals—but, as a full-
back, he may crack under the
harassing that a pack of wily
Bananaland forwards will give
him; ex-Union forward
Mcssop earned a place in the
State side ; Poole and Holman
were polished, as ever. But the
game could not have been a
reliable guide, and the worst
sufferers are the best of the
country players, their repre-
sentative chance now very
dim.
* * *
In a slogging-match pretty
well devoid of highlights, N.Z.
beat N.S.W. 19-3 at Sydney
Sportsground which, inci-
dentally, had grass on it an
inch or two high. Led by
nippy half-back “Ponty” Reid,
who must surely be the smallest
man ever to play first-class
Rugby, the All Blacks scored
three tries to nil; and they
never really looked like being
beaten. The score may have
been closer had N.S.W. winger
Stanbrook had a little more
luck with his four penalty-
kicks, a couple of which just
missed.
Except in the rucks, where
N.Z.’s three try-scoring move-
ments began, the N.S.W. for-
wards more than held their
own with the All Black pack.
They had the better of scrums
and lineouts, though in the
scrums they did give away too
many penalties—and All Black
fullback Don Clarke truly is
handy with the boot. The
N.Z. backs, man for man, were
faster and better than N.S.W.’s,
who, with plenty of the ball,
were . the locals’ weak link:
they kicked too often or were
too often caught'in possession.
Young fullback Curley was
N.S.W.’s best back.
On Saturday’s game, this
20th All Black team to Aus-
tralia doesn’t look a really great
team ; but it still should carry
too many guns for most of the
sides it will meet here, and
could perhaps become the
eighth AH Black combination
to go through an Australian
tour undefeated. It meets Aus-
tralia in the first of two Tests
at the S.C.G. on Saturday.
“K.R.”: Medico-ref. Roger
Vanderfield, Who capably con-
trolled the N.Z.-N.S.W. game,
got some of the 15,000 spec-
tators’ backs up by what did
seem at times a too-rigid inter-
pretation of the rules. There
was a bit too much “whistle.”
So no.t altogether surprising
when, just before the bell, a
message was put over the
amplifier that Dr. was
wanted urgently, a wag yelled-
out “Send Dr. Vanderfield,
too.”
“C.F.D.”: My father, T. M.
Dixon, of Kogarah (N.S.W.),
who’s touching 90, was a mem-
ber of the Wentworth Juniors
Rugby Union Club, trophy-
winners and premiers in their
association in the season 1890.
Wonder whether there’d be any
other survivors of the team?
For that matter, I don’t sup-
pose there’d be too many active
footballers of 1890 or earlier
still on the sidelines.
* * *
Five of the six at-home
teams won in the fifth round
of the V.F.L. Carlton, no
doubt to celebrate skipper
Hands’s 200th game with the
Blues, and with Hands taking


CHATEAU TANUNDA
Stories of the Coastal Lights No. 5
m i
§3B?
t
£2
SOUTH SOLITARY ISLAND
Lighthouses are nearly always lonely outposts. N.S.W. has
many empty stretches of coast but the most isolated light-
house of all on our seaboard is at South Solitary. Here, on a
precipitous rocky island stands a -10 ft. circular concrete
tower. From its top, 192 ft. above high water, shines a
white flashing light of 256,000 candle power that can be
seen 21 nautical miles away in clear weather. But clear
weather is by no means a constant feature of the area. Wild
seas and vicious storms make it treacherous to shipping.
When the plan to establish a light in the locality was being
considered the best part of a century ago, there were clashes
of opinion as to whecner it should be placed on the North
or South Isl -nd. so the views of masters of coastal vessels
trading in the area were taken. They unanimously recom-
mended South Solitary.
The need for a light at this dangerous spot was first urged
in 1256, but it was not until March 18, 1880, that it came
in o use with Captain Leddra as the head keeper. Total ex-
penditure, including the cost of erecting a jetty and landing
stage on the island, was £32,000
South Solitary, which is about 11 miles from Coff’s
HaiLour, is so hard to approach that the lighthouse builder
often had great difficulty in landing materials.
V hen the tower was being built a smali crane was twice
washed away, on one occasion during an easterly hurri-
ane, the seas washed right over the centre of the island,
which is about 90 ft. high. At another time a carpenter
named McCarty was swept off the rocks and drowned.
For the purposes of food, sheep were landed on the island
in batches of 50 ; they are reported to have become so wild
that they had to be shot when fresh meat was needed.
The most serious wreck in the area was the loss of the
steamer Kielawarra (964 tons) in 1886 while bound from
Sydney to Brisbane. The Kielawarra collided with he
Helen Nicoll between North and South Solitary Islands and
sank in seven minutes with a loss of 48 lives. The Helen
Nicoll was badly damaged, but no lives were lost.
South Solitary light is latitude 30° 12' south, longitude
153° 16' east. It is 245 miles north of Sydney by sea.
Thirds safety in the quality of
CHATEAU TANUNDA
N.S.W. Agents
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 119 years
CLS
a hand, stitched Richmond
16.22-13.16 even when
beaten the Tigers always
manage to put a fair score on
the board. Geelong registered
a needed victory, over Haw-
thorn, 9.10-3.19, the Hawks
seemingly trying to outvie Fitz-
roy’s atrocious kicking of the
previous round. North beat
Footscray 9.16-9.14 in a hard,
slogging game, and Colling-
wood also had a two-point win,
over Fitzroy, 12.12-13.4.
’Wood was lucky to win after
’Roy full-forward Gotch had
missed from a “sitter” dead in
front just before the siren. Mel-
bourne slammed St. Kilda
17.17-13.12, and Essendon, the
only team in the round to win
in hostile territory, slew South
14.16-7.16. Essendon now tops
the ladder.
There are three unrelated
Sharps now playing in the
V.F.L., and all three are pretty
sharp footballers. Lerrel Sharp,
one of Tasmania’s important
exports to Victoria in recent
years, is a clever back-pocket
defender with Collingwood.
Richmond centreman Laurie
Sharp won the Tigers’ best-and-
fairest award last season, and
has been going well again this
year. Third (but in no way
least) is Geelong’s big. power-
ful ruckman Norm Sharp, star
of what is a much weaker
Geelong side this year, though
at present he’s out of action
with a damaged knee
“Kejokada”: Do home
grounds confer an advantage
or not? Of the 3O V.F.L.
games, 23 have been won by
home sides, with one drawn.
Opposed to that, it was noted
by a writer in the “West Aus-
tralian” (6/5/’57) that of the
first 13 games in Perth only
four were won by home teams.
“Sagittarian”: How long is
the ball in play during an
average Australian Rules
League football-match? I am
one of those disgruntled ex-
spectators who gave the game
away years ago because it was
being spoiled by rules and inter-
pretations. My neighbor
retuned from the recent Mel-
bourne-Essendon League game
at the M.C.G. disgusted by the
number of players “on the
ball.” “Never less than
twenty!” he complained.
Result: slowing-down of play.
“It is becoming more like
Rugby every day l ” was his dis-
paraging verdict. Has the Vic-
torian Football League any
statistics to rebut my friend’s
charge that the good old game
has jogged down to slow-
motion?
* * *
“Tim”: Re “SackfairY’
par. (Society, B. 24/4/’57). In
the old 20-round fights it was
common to hear and see some
of the pugs snorting through
the nose during rounds ; not to
terrify opponents, but to keep
the nose clear for breathing.
As many of these 20-rounders
were punishing affairs, the nose-
blowing often meant that
pressmen were sprayed with
drops of blood. And, on the
footwork-diagram mentioned in
“Dunleavy’s Gym”: In a long
period of reporting boxing I
noticed that the hardest
punchers hit from the feet.
The South African Mike Holt
and Freddy Dawson, to men-
tion two, hit from a firm-
based stance on impact—the
same fundamental hitting-base
as in golf or cricket. Bob
Fitzsimmons and Sam Lang-
ford never pranced about on
their toes when in battle, nor
did any of the heavy-hitters,
for that matter. They seemed
to shuffle around, their feet,
however, correctly placed for
the business on hand. Not a
clever boxer, Rocky Marciano,
but a crushing hitter. In
pictures of his fights you can
perceive that he drives forward
from his feet with the blow.
* * *
“L. 8.5.”: When Craig's
touring-team played Waikato
at Hamilton (N.Z.), the local
champion, left-handed opener
J. K. Everest (38), was a
spectator. Having helped
Waikato defend the coveted
Hawke Cup against Manawatu
in February, he announced his
retirement, after 22 years'
representative cricket. In the
Hawke Cup game, Jim —a
p.-0.-w„ incidentally, for four
years after Greece—made 264
out of 425. It was the highest
score of his life, a record for
the ground, a record for the
46-year-old competition, and a
captain’s innings that won the
game. Few cricketers, surely,
have retired on such a note. A
younger brother of R. A.
Everest, national Rugby Union
selector, Jim was as well a fine
footballer.
* * *
‘‘Tom”: Bradman may yet
be a name as famed in Aus-
tralian Olympic Games records
as in cricket. Though a good
cricketer, Sir Donald’s son,
John Bradman, has shown
greater promise as an athlete.
At this year’s inter-collegiate
athletic meeting between St.
Peter’s College and Prince
Alfred College (Adelaide) he
broke the inter - collegiate
110yds. hurdles record with a
time of 15.2 sec. He also
managed the sprints and the
220yds. hurdles.
* * *
“Joanne”: Is there an older
active bowler than Alex
Williams, of Killara (Sydney)
Club, now nudging 90? Alex
can still hold his own with the
above-average player ; but it is
as an administrator that he is
best known. He has given 38
years’ continuous service to his
clubs (Killara and Roseville),
He was president of Killara for
eight years, vice-president for
\\ r hon.-secretary for eight,
bowls-secretary for seven and
greens-director for 11. Alex has
served as a delegate to the
Royal N.S.W. Bowling Associa-
tion for years, and was vice-
president for one term. Apart
from bowls, he was the sole
organiser of the association's
camouflage-net making during
the last war. The boys with the
cord turned out nearly 8000
nets as part of their war-effort.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office (or Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
GENERATOR SET
pi K.V.A.
Direct coupled to V 8 Petrol Engine,
complete with switchboard,
£750.
BUSCH ELECTRIC CO.,
Valley St., Hunting-dale, Victoria,
t.J 1443. I d 1430.
siiiuhiuv:
and all
Rheumatic Complaints
treated
with excellent results
Persons in all walks of life
throughout Australia have
found freedom from suffering
and hundreds of grateful
letters have heen received o>
onr consultant Siiut-ie. safe
and effective, STRATTON'S
POWDER, compounded from
an Indian Formula, contains
no harmful drugs, will not
affect the heart, and is
NATURE'S ALLEVIATOR
for all complaints of the
RHEUMATIC GROUP.
Four weeks’ Treatment costs
only £1 POST FREE.
STRATTONS
Rheumatic Powder Pty. Ltd.,
8 Barrack St.. PERTH. W.A
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of the verse called “Dan
Murphy’s C0w.”—6512.
To buy the following back-
numbers of the magazine “Ring
Digest”: Jan.-Dee., lvo-j; Jan.-Dee.,
1951; Jan.-April, 1952; April, July,
Dec., 1953; Oct.* Dec., 1954; Sept.-
Nov., 1955; Jan., April, 1956
6510.
To buy the following journals:
“The Australian Zoologist” (vol. 5,
pait 4); “Mankind” fvol. 1, no. 3
and no. 6; vol. 2, no. 9; vol. 4, no.
2); “Journal and Proceedings of the
Royal Society of N.S.W.” (vols. 1,
3-8, 49, 67 and onwards). —6511.
To buy copies of the following:
Rauaeilo Cairooms The Eureka
Stockade; The Art of Hugh
Ramsay; Rhodes’s Pageant of tne
Pacific (2 vols.); A to Z of Aus-
tralian Fruitgrowing (2nd ed., 1932),
b> H. J. Rumsey.—6sUB.
To buy reproductions of paintings
in steel engravings (toiio size; dooks
puoushed between 18yo-1910).
6509.
Information Sought
(1) Were the late ’seventies and
earty ’eighties a period of prosperity
in Australia ? (2) Were there strikes
in tnat period ?
From the gold-rushes of the
1850’s to the big strides and the
bank-crash of the ’nineties, Aus-
tralia’s economy was a rapidly
expanding one. In particular it
was a “boom” period in the
’seventies and ’eighties. This was
a time of great capital investment
in Australia; railways, factories and
smelters were built aplenty. Wool
and wheat industries grew rapidly;
(he export trade expanded. The
value of wages doubled from 1852
to 1872, and further increased in
the next 10-15 years; the historian
Sir Timothy Coghlan has described
the period 1870-90 as one of the
brightest periods for wage-earners
in Australia’s history. (2) The
1870’s-1880’s saw the Teal beginnings
of Australian trade-unionism; in
June, 1874, was formed the
Amalgamated Miners’ Association,
the first big industrial union in Aus-
tralia, and in the same year two
Seamen’s Unions W'ere formed,
which united in 1876; the wharf-
laborers’ and shearers’ unions were
formed in the mid-1880’s. There
Were certainly strikes; the A.M.A.
was often on strike, and ,th e
Shearers’ Union in its first three
years had conducted “3180 strikes,
from half-an-hour’s duration to eight
weeks’ ” (Fitzpatrick, Short History
of the Australian Labor Movement).
Still, the strikes of the 1870’s-
1880’s were on nowhere near the
scale of those in the 1890’s.
* * * *
What are the essentials of a hydro-
electric scheme ?
A hydro-power scheme needs, in
general, reservoir, dam, civil-
engineering works, conduits (or an
open canal, tunnel or pipeline), and
the power-house and its machinery
(turbines and dynamos). No two
schemes are exactly alike, the final
project depending a lot on the
natural surroundings. There are
On the Service Page of B. 10/4/’57 a reader asked how many
of Stan McCabe’s knock of 187 not-out —in Sydney in the first
1932-33 (“bodyline”) Test—came off Larwood. This, sort of cricket-
statistics isn’t easily come by, and, despite the expert advice
summoned, only as close as approximating 75 p.c. of the last 81 hit
off Larwood that innings could be got. However, E. L. Thomson,
of Ashhurst (N.Z.), writes: “Cricket has been and still is my
passion. I have taken these figures from a book written on the
‘bodyline’ series, The Fight for the Ashes, by J. B. Hobbs. This
book and his following one on the 1934 Australian tour of England
are tire only ones in which I have noticed this peculiar system of
statistics.”
First Innings
Batsman Bowler
Larwood Voce Allen Hammond Verity
Ponsford .. (32) 8 8 6 6 4
Woodfull .. (7) 2 3 2
Fingleton .. (26) 3 19 3 1
Kippax .. (8) 5 3
McCabe .. (187) 40 65 39 20 23
Richardson (49) 25 2 16 3 3
Oldfield (4) 4
Grimmett (19) 9 2 2 2 4
Nagel.. (0)
O’Reilly .. (4) 4
Wall .... (4) 4
Second Innings
Ponsford .. (2) 2
Woodfull (0) _ _
Fingleton .. (40) 5 14 1 20
Kippax .. (19) 5 2 12
McCabe .. (32) 3 19 6 4
Richardson (0)
Oldfield (1) 1
Grimmett .. (5) 5
Nagel .. (21) 6 1 14
O’Reilly .. (/) 6 1
Wall .. .. (20) 3 16 1
two main types—high-head schemes,
utilising a “head” or “drop” of
500ft.-5000ft., and low-head schemes,
of 2ft.-100ft. Where no lake or
natural storage of water is avail-
able, flooding of a large area is
usually necessary. Most power-
dams are, naturally, at a high
altitude (apropos, it has been proved
that, acre for acre, areas of heavy
snow provide more water than areas
ol heavy rain). As mud is the
enemy of a hydro-scheme, the dam
or reservoir is usually buttressed by
i solid retaining-wall, with a con-
Crete or rock-filled bottom; in the
Snowy River scheme the base of the
dam high in the Alps has been
“refrigerated.” A surge-tank is
another requisite—it’s a kind of
safety-valve, to impound the water
forced back along the canal or
tunnel when the turbines are stopped.
The turbines, of course, are the
water-driven rotary-engines acti-
vating the dynamos, which convert
the mechanical energy into electrical
energy.
' * * * *
What books of poetry were
published in Australia last year ?
According to the Annual
Catalogue of Australian Publications,
1956, the following: Botany Bay
Broadsides, compiled and with notes
by Hugh Anderson ; Apocalypse and
Other Poems, by Arthur Banning;
Fettered and Free, by William
Beard ; Poems, 1950-1955, bv Sandor
Berger; The Miracle of Mullion
Bill, by David Campbell; The
Boomerang Book of Australian
Poetry, edited and compiled by Enid
Heddle; TTie Sonnet in Australasia,
by Louis Lavater; Henry Lawson’s
The Flour Bin (reprint); Great
'Hearts, by Francis McNamara;
Song and Dance, by Ray Mathew;
The Stockwhip and the Spur, by
Charles Mills (re-issue); Ridge of
Fire, by Arthur Murphy; The Other
Meaning, by Vivian Smith; Songs of
Billy Barlow, compiled and with
notes by Hugh Anderson; Orpheus
and Other Poems, by Harold
Stewart; The Wattle and the Rowan,
by Judith Wright; A Book of Aus-
tralian Verse, selected by Judith
Wright.
Brief Answers
Sam: There is a Wallsend in N.Z.
A former coalmining township, it
is on the Grey River, seven miles
east of Greymouth (Westland
province, South Island)
Hayseed: Write the Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, Minnesota, U.S.A
C.H.T. and R.J.S.: Suggest you’ll
r.eed approx. £ ton sand and a bag
of lime (depending on the texture
of the sand) —rock-lime if possible.
Boil the lime, pouring it into a
drum containing about 80gals.
water, stirring all the time, until
at a milky thickness. Make a ring
of the sand, add the lime and
make a fatty mixture. Because
of the heat to which it will be
subjected, it is better without
cement. If fro-lime is used, you
would need approximately equal
parts of lime and sand. Ready-
mixed mortar, if available, makes for
a faster and easier job E.N.L.:
(From Harley Wood, Government
Astronomer.) It is true that the
moon does appear larger when it is
near the horizon, but measurements
would show that really it is the
same size. This means that it is an
optical illusion and that the ques-
tion is really one in psychology
lauier than astronomy. I have heard
several explanations, the most plaus-
ible one being that when the moon
is near the horizon we unconsciously
interpret it as being more distant,
and therefore bigger. Psychology
friends tell me that this expianation
is not perfectly satisfactory, and
that no expianation really satisfies
them... .C.R.C.: (1) The Mel-
bourne Cup has twice been
postponed—lB7o and 1916. (2) Yes,
Sasanof won the Cup in 1916, with
6.12 on his back E.G.S.: The
Good Friday of 1918 occurred on
Mar. 29; it also fell on the same
date in 1929 A. B. F. :
Other U.S. literary, drama, etc.,
awards include the Caldecott Medal
(to the artist who has illustrated
the most distinguished picture-book
tor American children published in
the preceding year; bronze medal),
National Book Awards (for the
year’s most distinguished books of
fiction, non-fiction and poetry; gold
plaques), John Newbery Medal (for
the book, published in the preceding
year, judged to be the most
distinguished contribution to
American children’s literature;
bronze medal), New York Drama
Critics’ Circle Award (for the best
American play, best foreign play


me m-BRITISH
ms *u-»»man
the Pen
tvith the
'Marvellous
Nib!
%
A
* Prices from
29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
• 0 8 101 *0
*OB f HI
oils mmu
NOTHING EQUALS
Warmray's Amazing Efficiency
warm/ra y
TRIPLE-PURPOSE, SLOW-COMBUSTION,
AIR-CONDITIONING HOME HEATER
mmm
m
ma
' :: V ':
> 4
Model No. 3
Super De Luxe
•X- Large Capacity
Over 8,000
cu. ft.
•fa Special large
firebox for long
burning without
attention.
fa Extra large
hotplate for
cooking.
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray"
ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING
Model No. 2A
Jr Heats over 5,000
cu. ft.
<X- Modern artistic
cream porcelain
enamel on solid cast
iron.
■fc No dirty fireplaces
to clean.
Pull view of blazing
fire through open
or closed front.
■A- Lights In seconds
warms entire room
in minutes.
No smoke or dust to
soil furnishings.
★ Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
Your appreciation of*>"»">/.-
qualitu has made rt Austrcfe
r";bSJ»
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL—REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
The secret of Warmray’s Amazing Efficiency Is
the Patented Heating Tubes (illustrated above),
which are built into the firebox. The air in the
room passes through these tubes continuously,
thus maintaining an even warmth in every part
of the room.
JL- BURNS ALL SOLID FUELS
WOOD IS CLEANEST.
Sold by Scores, Builders’ Suppliers and
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
BUY NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors,
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: "Warmray.” BL 2217.
If unobtainable locally, phone, write or call
for illustrated Brochure and name of nearest
agents.
and best musical produced in. New
York; scroll), O. Henry Awards
(for the three best short stories pub-
lished in American magazines;
$3OO, $2OO, $100) and numerous
awards by the Poetry Society of
America....N .S.T.: Missouri-
Mississippi (Gulf of Mexico), 4502;
Amazon (Atlantic), 4000; Nile
(Mediterranean), 3850; Yangtse
(North Pacific), 3400; Yenisei
(Arctic Sea), 3300 ; Congo (Atlantic),
3000... .A.0.T.: A mandate of the
Supreme Council of the Allies
the administration to the
Australian Government, which
established its administration on
May 9, 1921.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
■ sidered for publication on the
understanding that- they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
S.A.: Anaemic... .F.D.: Not much
in either of them... .0.T.: “ihe
Ghost” won’t waik for y0u....
E.R.M.: An honest effort; try for
a more humorous approach....
....L.W.H.: Here’s the green-light
lor you:—
... .J.C.: Well, it's clear that you
were in a fern-filled glade; but all
those chandeliers and phoenixes and
sailors don’t really belong there.
. ...J.W.: “Earthworms” has been
used for bait... .T.T.: Reads like
a coroner’s report... .A.D.: Lacks
even the smallest grain of credulity.
. ...E.T.: Might be O.K. in
paragraph-form... .Y.J.: * Why the
dickens imitate Dickens? ... .F.P.:
Thanks for the sentiments, but your
verse must go down the drain....
John: Oh, no, John... .T.M.: ‘.‘The
Pianist” needs tuning... .P.T.:
“Ode to Merilyn” 0ut....K.R.:
Plot as strong as fairy-f 1055....
W.S.: Too contrived.... R.J.:
“Greek at Werri Beach” werri
watery H.H.: Story about man-
groves coming to life -and stalking
fishermen is novel, to say the least —
and the m05t....G.E.: That "black-
bristled desperado” had a close
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.]
shave... .L.E.: “Poultry” paltry.
... .S.D.: If you must wail at Fate,
do so more coherently.... M.T. :
Rioting typists rubbed 0ut....
0.F.: Melodious as a barrel-organ.
. ...G.D.: Promising if you’re 15;
if not, n0t.... W.L.: Found it hard
to resist her “peach-tinged fragile
old-world 'be a u t y”... .C.N.C.:
“Now golden sunset Hoods the sky,
And snowy clouds go cruising by.”
So does your MS F.L.R.: Not
quite appalling I.B.:
Ephemeral... .U.K.P.: “A friend
told me I could write.” You can:
in monosyllables... .E.H.: You’ve
cluttered up a reasonably good plot
with oodles of adjectives.., .T.S.:
Pathetic.
Ten little motorists going out to dine.
They had too much to drink and then
there were nine.
Kine little motorists driving rather late.
They took the curves too last, and then
there were eight.
Eight little motorists dreaming hopes of
Heaven,
The driver dreamt a bit too much and
then there were seven.
Seven little motorists going to the
flick-,
They passed the red-light and then
there were six.
Six little motorists going for a drive,
They did eight3' through a town and
then there were five.
Five little motorists drove with tyres
“all wore,”
One had a blow-out, and then there
were four.
Four little motorists driving fast and
free,
They had Inefficient brakei, and then
there were three.
Three little motorists thought “I’m as
good as you ! ”
They did some “cutting-in” and then
there were two.
Two little motorists out to have some
fun,
Recklessly the}' passed a tram, and then
there was one.
One little motorist when his day was
done
Failed to give the right of way, and
then there wgs none!


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
DESIGN FOR EUROPE
13RITAIN’S “Grand Design”
for Europe, proposed to
the Council for Europe at Stras-
bourg, envisaged a new
Assembly, elected by national
Parliaments but not replacing
them and, “New York Times”
comments, superseding and
uniting “the growing number
of European Assemblies, includ-
ing the Consultative Assembly
of the 15-nation Council of
Europe, the common Assembly
of the six-nation European
Coal and Steel, Economic and
Atomic Energy Communities,
and the seven-nation Western
European Union. Later it
would take over some of the
political-military functions of
the North Atlantic Council.”
Noting a lack of enthusiasm
in either Europe or the U.S.
for the British proposal, “N. Y.
Times” adds that, among other
things, the scheme “takes in
more territory than appears
practical at this time. But what
the Europeans mainly object to
is that it is based on the British
idea of mere ‘association’ be-
tween sovereign nations, as is
the Commonwealth, while the
Continent favors the idea of
federation, or at least con-
federation, and has made sub-
stantial progress along that
line.’’
Edinburgh “Scotsman”
points out that another criticism
of the British proposal was that
“by lumping all these bodies
together in one Assembly they
might be reduced to a common
level of ineffectiveness. In
deference to this criticism the
British scheme has now been
modified. The Assembly would
include only the West European
Union, the Council of Europe,
and Nato. The other
Assemblies would continue to
exist separately.
“Mr. Selwyn Lloyd’s idea
was to have as comprehensive
a European body as possible—
one which could be joined by
Sweden, Switzerland, Austria,
Yugoslavia, and eventually
other Eastern European States.
“Obviously neither Sweden
nor Switzerland would wish to
be associated with Nato ; and
Eastern European countries
might be warned off any inter-
national body of this kind by
Russia with grave threats of
atomic warfare unless their
nuisance-value was important.
“But the reply to this is that
the system of committees
would establish a certain
separation of functions, so that
Sweden and Switzerland would
not be involved in Nato
decisions.”
To the “Scotsman’s” final
comment —that “any Assembly
runs the risk of becoming a
mere talking-shop” London
“Economist” adds that, “after
years of hesitation in Europe,
Britain can in any case hardly
expect an unqualified European
welcome for a new r British
political design, which in some
respects does not go so far as
the Six [Messina countries —
West Germany, France, Italy,
Belgium, Holland and Luxem-
burg] wish to go themselves”:
“The Europeans will want
first to see proof of British
sincerity in practice. That
means pushing ahead with the
free-trade area, working to-
gether more closely on defence,
and sharing atomic knowledge.
From these activities, the
necessity of something like the
Grand Design should emerge.”
Disarmament
Commenting on what it calls
“a shocking lot of nonsense”
talked about disarmament
in advance of Britain’s H-
bomb tests at Christmas Island,
London “Economist” attributes
most of it Jo “the fearful and
the hopeful”:
“On the one hand, there are
those obsessed by fears that
nuclear test-explosions may
both endanger posterity and
bring death or disease to several
thousand present inhabitants of
the world (a world, let it be
coldly recorded, whose popula-
tion is rising by thirty million
each year). Most of the alarm
voiced about this is as sincere
as it is natural, and has no
connection with the efforts be-
ing made by Western Com-
munists to send down their
fellow - countrymen’s spines
shivers which evidently do not
affect the Vertebrae of their own
masters in Moscow.
“But it is fair to ask cam-
paigners against the Christmas
Island tests —if they reject Mr.
Macmillan’s assurances that the
effects will be negligible—to
ponder a timely piece of evi-
—London “Daily Express "
STATE BANQUET
dence. The Russians, whose
scientific advisers are thought
to be pretty good these days,
have just set off five explosions
in twelve days on their own
territory. Siberia today is no
longer an empty land, and
millions of Russians are
settled much nearer than Japan
to the test-sites.
“The Kremlin’s aberrations
scarcely extend to the mass
maiming or extinction of its
own productive workers, par-
ticularly in strategic areas such
as its Far Eastern maritime
provinces or the reclaimed
‘virgin lands’ east of the Urals.”
On the other hand, ihe
“Economist” adds that “the
frankly fearful deserve vastly
more sympathy and respect
than the busy chasers of blue-
birds,” among whom are those
who hope that, if Britain post-
poned its H-bomb tests, “Russia
and the United States would
then quickly accept the termina-
tion of their own pro-
grammes.”
Those who think that such “a
unilateral gesture would suffice
to bring about this miracle
have,” the “Economist” con-
cludes, “had their answer from
Mr. Khrushchev, whose rejec-
tion of a Japanese appeal for
a unilateral Soviet suspension
of tests was based on the argu-
ment that this gesture would
look like a sign of weakness.”
European Forecast
Reviewing the latest report of
the Organisation for European
Economic Co-operation, Lon-
don “Financial Times” notes
that the main finding is the
prediction that “the gross
national incomes of all the
member-countries should by
1960 be 17 per cent, higher than
in 1955.
“By historical standards in
both Europe and the U.S., this
is a high rate of progress, but it
represents a considerable
falling-off from the rise of
27 per cent. achieved
in the previous five years.
The chief reason for this
is that there is now very much
less scope than there was some
years ago for raising output by
increasing the labor force or re-
ducing unemployment, so that
the principal source of growth
must come in future from an
increase in productivity.
“But even the rise in produc-
tivity is expected to slow down
slightly. The increase achieved
in output per man-hour in the
period 1950-55 was helped by
the fuller use of existing pro-
ductive capacity, and the invest-
ment effort of those years was


THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
and the Bank
The Banking needs of families are varied, but this
Bank, with its large network of branches and
agencies, provides modern facilities to satisfy all
needs. Its many services and friendly advice are
available to all members of your family.
The C.B.C. Savings Bank Limited is equipped to
handle savings accounts with the minimum delay at
all branches and agencies of the Bank in New South
Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
Western Australia and
Australian Capital Territory.
Deposits in C.B.C. Savings
Bank Limited are guaranteed
by the parent company.
The Bank’s officers will bo
glad to tell you how its services
can help you.
Jrkrtp
m
?fgggg
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPAN
OF SYDIIEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834 .
concentrated in the sectors
which yielded the most rapid
increase in output.
“In the current period, how-
ever, a great deal of invest-
ment will be required in assets
like roads and schools, where
the return is much longer in
coming ; a greater proportion
of new equipment will have to
replace old assets whose
replacement can be no longer
delayed ; while new industrial
investment will be concentrated
in industries such as nuclear
energy, oil-refining or chemicals
where a large amount of capital
is required for any given
addition to output.
“The upshot of all this is that
the growth of-output in Europe
in the immediate future may be
a considerably more expensive
and difficult process than it
has been in the immediate
past.”
"One Country, One
Vote"
In the preface to a new
edition of his War or Peace
U.S. Secretary of State Dulles
recommends a conference to
review the U.N. charter with
the purpose of finding some-
thing better than the present
system of “one country, one
vote” —preferably a weighted
system of voting which would
recognise the relative strength
and importance of member-
nations.
Commenting, Toronto
“Globe and Mail” notes that
“The one country, one vote
principle is, in fact, illogical in
the extreme. It disregards every
factor which gives nations their
relative importance in the
world, making Libya, with a
population of scarcely more
than a million, equal with the
United States, which has nearly
170,000,000; granting exactly
the same representation to the
great military Powers as to
those States whose armed forces
consist of a handful of irregu-
lars; and equating nations
which have been centres of
civilisation for centuries with
territories only emerging from
savagery.
“Worst of all, perhaps, it
makes no distinction between
long-e stabli s h e d, stable
Governments and transient
military dictatorships or Com-
munist puppet regimes which
have no real claim to represent
the peoples in whose names
they speak.
“Besides these theoretical
objections,” the “Globe and
Mail” continues, “the system
has in recent years developed


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
' AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
■ •
Offices:
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO JAMES ROBERT ALEXANDER lata
of Bondi Junction and Darlinghurst.—
TAKE NOTICE that ALICE MINNIE
ALEXANDER has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 999 of 1957 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is
asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under S. 19 (ij) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act, 1899 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 29th
day of July 1957 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from N. V.
MENLO VE, Solicitor, of 160 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
serious practical disadvantages.
It has permitted the members of
the Afro-Asian bloc —most of
them newly independent, back-
ward States, often with
fanatical and irresponsible
leadership—to hold the balance
of power in the Assembly, and
to play havoc with the vital
interests of the Western
European nations.
“Yet despite all this, the con-
ference Mr. Dulles envisages is
unlikely to produce any change
in the voting pattern. An
amendment to the U.N. charter
would be needed, and this
would require, as a first step, a
two-thirds vote of the General
Assembly itself. It is hard to
imagine a majority of sovereign
States, all fiercely jealous of
their national dignity, volun-
tarily agreeing to a change by
which some of them must
accept an inferior status.
“And even if, by some near-
miracle, they could be brought
to consider a new system, what
would be its basis? Popula-
tion? India is by far the most
populous of the present
members ; is its Government so
wise and statesmanlike that it
should be accorded an influence
proportionate to the numbers
of the Indian people?
“Military power? How is
that to be measured —by stand-
ing armies, possession of
nuclear weapons, or basic
industrial strength? (Besides,
this criterion is peculiarly
objectionable because one of
the two great military Powers
of the world has been the most
consistent disturber of the
peace since 1945, and is even
now in flagrant contempt of the
U.N. over the Hungarian out-
rage.)
“Standards of civilisation?
How could the member-nations,
divided as they are between
radically different types of
civilisation, decide which
—London “Daily Mirror”
“ANY OLE BRASS YOU’VE DONE WITH, SIR?”
countries were pre-eminent in
this respect?
“There is no question that the
U.N.’s voting system needs to
be reformed ; otherwise, such
countries as Britain and France
—and, quite possibly, the
United States —may in time be
compelled to leave it. But the
task of reformation presents
formidable difficulties. For
that reason it is to be hoped
that Mr. Dulles will, in the
not-too-distant future, spell out
the details of his vote-weight-
ing proposal. Outside, if not
inside, the U.N. they could
make for some interesting dis-
cussions.”
British Atom Power
Britain having chosen the
Hanover Trade Fair to launch
its export-drive in atomic
power-stations on the world
market, London “Time and
Tide” comments that “the effect
on visitors is said to have been
psychologically shatter-
ing.”
“Many people have been
shocked into realising for the
first time that atomic power is
a contemporary fact. All you
have to do to get an atomic
station is to walk up to the
British counter and buy one.
“The leadership we have
been able to build up in the
export market is one of the
most worth-while features of
the huge British home atomic
power - programme. British
industry is now thoroughly
organised. Five major groups
have been formed to engage in
all the very diverse activities
necessary for the construction
of complete stations. Atomic
power has become part and
parcel of the whole industrial
structure —no less than 2000
firms belong to the trade-
association which has helped to
stage the Hanover exhibit.
“As a result Britain is in an
unrivalled position, as far as
technical organisation is con-
cerned, to put a long list of
equipment in the shop-window,
from big Calder Hali type
stations to the little package
reactors which will be so use-
ful in isolated and backward
areas. We are also in a good
position to export atomic
material for medical and
industrial use. Isotopes in
industry can be employed in
innumerable fields—from detec-
ting water escaping from town
mains to strengthening the heat-
resistance of plastic tooth-
brushes. Atomic exports may
well reach £l5O million by
1958.
“Meanwhile, across the
Atlantic, there is gloom and
despondency. Republicans have
strong ideological prejudices
against Government inter-
ference in the electric-generat-
ing industry; and the utilities
know that atomic power is still
hopelessly uncompetitive in a
country with abundant cheap
supplies of coal.
“The result is that (in spite
of the grandiloquent treaties
signed all round the world) the
American industry is still in an
experimental stage, while
Britain has her foot well
wedged in the export door.
But, if we are to keep it there,
we will have to display atomic
powers of salesmanship.”
Midshipmen
London “Daily Mail” fare-
well to another casualty of the
atomic age:
“Today [May 1] the midship-
man disappears from the Royal
Navy as a seagoing animal,
after the best part of 300
years.
''Midshipmen are to be
replaced by acting sub -
lieutenants—men over 20, well
trained, highly educated,
primed with the knowledge
needed for an atom-age Navy.
They will be what the country
wants.
“But their name lacks the
romantic associations of the
‘middy,’ denizen of the gun-
room and ‘lowest form of life’
among naval officers at sea. He
has been a favorite figure in
naval stories from Marryat’s
Mr. Midshipman Easy to
Forester’s Mr. Midshipman
Hornblower.
“How many of us when
younger (or older, for that
matter) have not enjoyed the
adventures of the ‘young
gentlemen’ who took charge of
jolly-boat, gig, or pinnace
manned by grizzled A.B.s old
enough to be their grand-
fathers?
“To midshipmen, perhaps, it
was not so romantic. But from
these boys, inured to a hard
life and accustomed to the
command of men from their
early ’teens, came a race of
incomparable seamen, genera-
tion after generation, century
after century.”


Circular Charts for all type*
of Recording Instruments
for any clan of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
ACCURACY GUARANTEED
JACti^fO'SULLIYANfMtt
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
Can you detect
a ‘classic’?
if ye
BELtS
*OO% SCOTCH WHISK«W
Distilled and blends**
IN SCOTLAND
tlanp
O,s TILLERS n»™ SCO
82’ ..
PRODUCT O*
**' contents - i n*
SUM
:«r;
One of life’s little joys lies
in making your own dis-
coveries. Quietly finding
the best. Many a man has
been delighted to come
across Bell’s Old Scotch
Whisky. It has a magic
subtlety that only the rare,
the very best whiskies can
achieve. You have only
to open a bottle to appre-
ciate its classic bouquet
and flavour.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
- DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd., Distillers,
Berth, Scotland. Established 1825.
“That’ll be the day, Cookie,
somethin’ scares you in the
night! ”
. “Ja see that blacktracker
go! I seen his white eyeballs
go past me, one on each side
o’ me, betcha! They’da hit
about halfway up the Horse-
collar ! ”
“Hullo there, Malek, hear
it this time?”
“Dunno! Something woke
me up!”
“Something! God, man”
Crocker switches off the
recorder.
/'"'ROCKER and Heemey
turn out at daybreak and
watch the blacktracker. He’s
a bad case of nerves and
casts about with less than
bloodhound enthusiasm. He
studies the street, squints
along the dewy grass lining it,
contemplates the butts of trees.
The morning sun hits dull
copper on tbe tracker’s
furrowed face and Heemey
gets a picture.
“Art!” Crocker grunts with
disgust. “Tell him to stick
around.”
“Well, breakfast’s the next
thrill,” he says, back in a
chair on the veranda.
“You’ve forgotten the early
morn in g wakey - wakey
cuppa,” says Heemey. “And
here it comes! Morning,
Rose!”
“Good morning. And w r hat
do you think nowl" Rose
hands them cups deftly from
a tray.
“I think how would you
look poised to dive into some
secluded rock - pool,” says
Heemey.
“Oh, you do, do you! ” Rose
laughs, birdwing brows lifting.
“About last night, what the
hell can you think?” says
Crocker. “It’s either from
Mars or it’s faked.”
“Who on earth could fake
that?” says Rose. “And how?
And what for?”
“Rose,” Crocker grunts,
“go jump in that rock-pool!”
After breakfast Crocker
putters away at his portable
for a while, then gets on the
phone.
“You’ve got no clues at
all?” says the phone.
“All I’ve got’s an awful
bloody noise.”
“Animal?”
“My oath it’s animal.”
“Well, that recording should
jolt the opposition.”
“It’ll jolt you!”
“Good. Now wrap it up.
All we want’s whodunit!”
says the phone.
The day passes slowly.
Leaning on the veranda-rail
looking at the emptiness of
Tooma Tooma in the harsh
midday heat reminds Crocker
of endless empty days spent
leaning on the rail of
a troopship, the passage
of time suspended. Here
there’s not even the pass-
ing sea. Two slow-circling
black specks occupy the vast
blue above. Away to the west
the glare is dimmed in the
gauzy smoke of the distant
fire. The lunch-gong reminds
Crocker that the planet is
inhabited.
The mail-car comes hum-
ming in from the west like an
angry black beetle. The hawk-
faced driver still wears the dull
red shirt with yellow spots..
He’s out and swinging mail
and stuff aboard before the
dust settles.
“That bloke’s still doing
fifty when he’s stopped,”
Heemey observes. “He’ll run
himself ragged.”
“He’s just what the scenery
needs,” says Crocker. “Better
give him the recording and
pictures.”
He moves his chair further
into the veranda shade and
settles for the afternoon siesta.
Crocker’s lazy like a cat.
XTE yawns himself awake to
the sound of voices
raised in the bar. Just two
hard voices. Malek and
Hansen. It sounds a bad time
to go in there for a drink and
Crocker stays in his chair.
“Stop hanging around Rose,
that’s all!”
“It’s time you stopped
hanging around her, Malek!
Rose is grown up and knows
her own mind.”
“Amd you know mine!”
Crocker lights a cigarette
and gives the bar time to
simmer down. Hansen steps
out on the veranda, scratches
his bottom rib, sees Crocker.
He sits down and talks cricket,
killing time till the keener
team-members gather for late-
afternoon practice.
At seven-o’clock Crocker
turns on the newscast and
hears the Tooma Tiger safely
confined to the radio-cabinet.
Used as a tail-end flash the
odd recording is dramatic and
convincing. ,
“By God, I like the natter
at the end!” says Yakka in the
laughing hubbub round the
radio. “Hear Cookie going
crook?”
“Who’s that callin’ his
dog?”
“One-armed feller from up
the range. Hey, Crocker, lend
me that gadget for a coupla
nights” . . .
The speaker is howled down.
There are conflicting ideas as
to where the recorder could
best be planted to enliven
life at Tooma Tooma.
The Tiger roars again that
night. Crocker clings to the
railing like a sailor in a
hurricane and stares helplessly
into the dark. He can’t pin-
point the source of the sound.
It’s in the warm black air,
close and stupefying. Dies out
with a snarling gurgle. There’s
a flash in the staring faces on
the veranda as Heemey gets
the only picture there is.
CJ UNDAY morning Crocker
and Heemey turn out at the
dewy hour called cow-time in
Tooma Tooma and again
follow the futile meandering
of the blacktracker. The story
he reads on the ground and
the grass makes no mention of
the tiger.
“We’ve got an audience,”
says Heemey.
Crocker glances at tihe
beefy bystander on the
hotel veranda; He wears a
broad fawn suit, hat tilted
over his eyes, and is chewing
a match.
“Why do plainclothes have
to be that plainV ’ Heemey
asks.
“Search me!” says Crocker.
They unleash the tracker
and return to their deck-
chairs.
“How long have you fellers
been here?” asks Plainclothes.
“Since Thursday.”
“Any ideas?”
'(Continued on page 56)


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Bankrupts
Our bankruptcy ; courts
reflect the increasing number
of would-be small traders who,
lacking adequate experience
and capital, seem to regard a
business fling with light-
hearted optimism.
According to George Weir
Burns, lately-retired Victorian
Official Receiver, only 28 Vic-
torians went broke in 1946 as
against 197 last year and about
100 so far in this year. Suggest-
ing that the increase was due
to the number of people who
went into business without
enough experience or capital,
Mr. Burns said too many
showed insufficient know-
ledge of costs or proper
management and did not
even know if they were
making a profit or a loss. He
might have added that some of
the pathetic one-man ventures
were literally doomed from the
beginning—such as the man
who became a building con-
tractor on £2OO borrowed from
a relative, or a publican who
sold beer below the legal price
because he knew no better.
And the Victorian pattern is
a reliable guide to what is
happening throughout the
Commonwealth. Latest figures
indicate that in all States last
year 785 were made bankrupt
and 174 were discharged,
almost a complete reverse of
the situation 10 years ago when
only 398 went into liquidation
and 1461 were discharged. The
number of people going
bankrupt is rapidly outstripping
those being discharged, and
more than 10,000 undischarged
bankrupts are now to be found
in court files.
While some of these failures
are undoubtedly attributed to
genuine bad luck, the greater
proportion can be laid at the
door of obstinancy, ignorance,
insufficient funds, laziness and
—most disquieting of all —a
reckless disregard of the other
fellow’s right to be paid. This
venality is measured by the
declining number of people
going bankrupt on their own
petition, which means that
more insolvents keep getting
further into debt until they
are ultimately caught and
brought to book.
A sorry decline in business
morality, surely, but a condi-
tion that a combination of lair
dealing and sane business-
sense could remedy ! —Xavier
(Vic.).
Teachers and Honors
Teachers are not “consis-
tently ignored” in Australian
honors-lists (B. 10/4 / ’57).
Some fifty years ago Miss M.
Jewell Baker took over Wal-
ford, a small private school for
girls in an Adelaide suburb.
She built it up to the point
where it was among the best
private schools in Australia,
with a most enviable record in
“ Darling , always I have Wanted to put you
on a pedestal .”
the way of success at public
examinations.
In 1955 she retired, after
handing over the school, debt-
free and with all its property
freehold, to the Church of
England. In the next honors-
list her name appeared among
those who had been awarded
the 0.8. E.
The University of Adelaide’s
Chair of Physics was held for
many years by a tall man with
shaggy eyebrows and a keen
sense of humor. He trained a
long list of men who later made
their mark on the world.
Finally, just before he retired,
a knighthood was conferred on
Kerr Grant. It is doubtful if
any such honor in the past has
called forth more expressions
of public approval.
It must be admitted, how-
ever, that anyone connected
with teaching has to earn an
honor several times over before
it is awarded. Further, if Miss
Baker or Kerr Grant had lived
and worked in any other State
in the Commonwealth, they
mightn’t have gained so much
as the equivalent of a men-
tion in dispatches for their life-
times of distinguished services
to education. Ex-R.S.M.
(S.A.).
Cheques and Receipts
Another aspect of dispens-
ing with receipts where pay-
ments are made by cheque (B.
24/4/’57) is that stamp-duty
is thereby avoided —and stamp-
duty is one of the relatively
few sources of revenue
available to State Governments.
The Victorian Government
recently raised stamp - duty
payable on receipts to a flat
rate of 3d. on all amounts of
£2 and over, which meant a
pretty stiff rise in the stamp-
duty payable by business
houses. There was talk of a
campaign by employers’ organi-
sations to get the payment-by-
cheque - without - receipt idea
accepted more widely—in fact,
to have it adopted as m©re-or-
less standard business practice.
Alarmed at the prospect of
being diddled out of its antici-
pated increased revenue from
stamp - duty, the Victorian
Government hinted that it
might, in certain circumstances,
consider legislation making the
giving of a receipt—a dutiable
receipt, of course —obligatory.
So, apart from any question
of the merits of the receipt-
system, it looks like remaining
in force in Victoria so long as
the State Government has a
vested interest in it.— Doynest
(Vic.).
Milk and Water
Like a lot of milkmen,
“Cash Count” (B. 13/3/’57)
could be surprised if he really
thinks that no one can prove
the amount of water added to
milk.
It has been found that
bulked herd-milk has a uniform
freezing-point produced by the
balance between the salt and
other constituents of what is
known as the solids-net-fat.
Each State has adopted a legal
standard which is generally a
minimum of o.s4deg. C. below
zero.
The freezing-point is deter-
mined in an instrument called
the Hortvet Cryoscope and,
should the figure be less than
0.54, the added water is easily
calculated. A small margin is
allowed for the traces of water
which may have come from
washing the machines, cans,
etc., but any excess brings
prosecut ion. Acetylene
(W.A.).
£. T. Blacket
I don’t think that Morton
Herman in his Victorian
Sydney (R.P. 27/3/’57) gave
sufficient credit to E. T.
Blacket as the greatest archi-
tect who has ever lived in
Australia. T. S. Mort, the
great Australian colonist, said
once to Blacket’s wife, “You
know, ma’am, your husband
should one day become recog-
nised as the ‘Sir Christopher
Wren of the Antipodes.’ ”
The Blackets had four sons,
of whom two, Arthur and
Cyril, were for a period
students in the parental office.
In those days there was a very
rigid distinction between archi-
tect and contracting-builder,
and anyone had to qualify to
be recognised as an architect.
Cyril did reach this distinc-
tion, but Arthur became a
licensed surveyor.
Cyril for a period was
lecturer-in-charge of the archi-
tectural department at the
Sydney Technical College.
Blacket, senior, was the archi-
tect of St. Stephen’s Church,
Willoughby, not his son,
Arthur.
There is one great Gothic,
ecclesiastical building that


Faith i*i ihc
Future
A I
*>
\
b
For many years, even with the development
of alternate sources of power, the world will be
dependent on Coal.
I notice that oil-rich and atom-conscious
America is taking steps to ensure the satisfaction
of a rising demand for coal. The U.S.A. expects
to be using 600-million tons a year by 1960.
The need for more coal is high in the problem
list for Britain as she makes her industrial drive.
West European countries are struggling to keep up
the supply to their restored and growing
industries.
That brief outline of the world position serves
to underline for Australia a fortunate fact: we
have abundant coal, of a variety of types, to last
us for long years.
We can construe that in terms of civilised
living by looking at a few of the ways in which
our coal is being used:
Forty per cent, of the coal produced in
Queensland is going to generating stations for the
electrical network which that State is building for
the lighting of communities and the powering of
rural production;
Thirty per cent, of the coal won in New South
Wales is used by that State’s nationally important
iron and steel industry;
The railways of all the States are heavy
consumers of coal.
How best to use our coal resources, how
more efficiently to convert them into the energy our
expanding life will require—that is the question.
It is one which, I believe, is being steadily
answered in the mechanisation of mines; in the
employment of machine loaders and conveyors; in
the introduction of power-borers to lighten work
on the coal-faces; in advances being made in
cleaning and preparing the output.
And it is being answered, too, in the record
of the miners themselves. Corresponding to the
new methods that have given them a skilled
technical status, they have taken their place in
the Australian industrial scene.
// //asf^f s
Blacket never considered was
truly his own creation —St.
Andrew’s Cathedral. The
foundations were already laid
when he was given this work
to create.
Alteration has spoilt the
facade of this- otherwise truly
Gothic edifice. The eastern
window has been removed;
the interior reorientated (what-
ever that may mean); and in
place ‘ of this window an
entrance from George-street
has been constructed. A grand-
son of Blacket referred to this
unsuitable alteration as “A
mouse-hole in a skirting-board.”
Now it is being mooted that
further modern desecration
should be perpetrated upon
Blacket’s beautiful Goulburn
Cathedral. The cathedral is
to be completed at last, and the
tower is to be built, not follow-
ing Blacket’s original design
but modern and streamlined
. .-. so those in authority are
suggesting. Harry Blacket
(N.S.W.).
Cheap Books
The comments of “Bagot”
(B. 10/4/’57) are very much
at variance with the facts. The
February issue of “The Unesco
Courier” is devoted exclusively
to book-publication facts and
problems. My figures were
taken from its pages.
I’m not “pipe-dreaming”
about the production of cheap
books. The hidebound pub-
lishing trade scoffed when the
Lane brothers began to reprint
good books at a low price in
1935. Today 10-million copies
of their Penguins are sold
every year and Allen Lane has
been given a knighthood.
In 1939 America copied the
idea with Pocket Books, Inc.
Today in the U.S.A. there are
16 publishing firms producing
paperbacks, and between them
they market 292-million copies
a year. Many are Westerns
and thrillers, but a surprisingly
large proportion are serious
fiction and factual works.
Given reasonable care, the
better-class paperbacks stand
up to frequent use. More than
half of my reference-library
consists of books of the
Fenguin type, and some of
them are 10 years old.
As regards dustjackets: the
cost varies with the size of the
edition, but the ordinary three-
color one adds an average of
6d. per book to the printer’s
bill and this, in accordance
with the figures which I gave,
means an extra Is. 6d. when
the book is retailed.
The French are great readers,
but very few books published
in France now have stiff covers.
By using lacquered paper-
covers, stapling in place of
sewing and with new types of
glue to stiffen the spine, French
publishers turn out novels and
factual works at a competitive
price.
Only by taking advantage of
every possible expedient for
reducing costs can Australian
publishers market books at a
competitive price. This is par-
ticularly true in the case of
what is now the biggest gamble
in the trade —'introducing a
new author to the reading
pub 1 i c. —H. A. Lindsay
(S.A.).
Automation
I , cannot agree with
“L.M.D.” (B. 24/4/’57) “that
mass-production and automa-
tion are as old as history and
are nearly synonymous terms.”
Automation is automatic
production, and the modern
washing-machine is a good
example—the turning of a
few knobs produces, without
labor and in a few minutes,
clothes ready for ironing.
There are a few canning-
factories in the world which
take" the raw product at one
end and then process, inspect,
can and crate with completely
automatic machinery. The
Ford company produces
engine-blocks on a giant
machine, several-hundred feet
long, which carries out about
200 operations, inspects at
many points and takes over
100 blocks at a time without
the assistance of labor.
Automation is not nearly
synonymous with mass-produc-
tion ; it is automatic mass-
production.
The impact of the automatic
age upon the unskilled labor-
force will be an economic and
a moral problem. As the
demand for unskilled labor
drops the demand for skilled
labor will increase, and the
training of labor to a higher
level will have to be faced.
This should be an obligation
upon Government and industry
alike.
Fortunately the transition
will not take place overnight,
but just as surely as the
washing-machine obviated the
washerwoman, the push-
buttons of industry will, in
time, end the demand for most
unskilled labor. Jaso'n
(N.S.W.).


THE PAINTER
By BON JORDAN
npHIS is the truth about
Charlie. It might bring
peace of mind to a team of
house-painters who are operat-
ing somewhere around Sydney.
There they were, one day,
slapping on bright happy
colors, cheerful in the know-
ledge that they were doing all
right.
You could imagine them
studying conscientiously after
work to keep abreast of the
new sorts of paints—paints
that you rolled on, paints that
wouldn’t spill, water-paints and
oil-paints, rubber-paints and
plastic - paints. With their
modern ammunition that team
could make the rainbow look
drab. They may have even
tried to keep up to date with
the home - decorating
magazines.
And then they met Charlie,
and their world toppled, and
they were full of morbid
doubts about themselves.
was not a painter,
but a sort of a watchman,
handyman, driver and pet
mechanic of a mogul in the
motor-car industry.
One Saturday morning
Charlie was mooching around
at the factory when the phone
rang. It was his boss.
“My wife had the front door
Panted yesterday, said the
mogul.
“Now it’s dried she doesn't
the c °l° r - I’d like you to
bu V a pint of Grouse-egg
Yellow at a hardware shop and
come out here now and paint
the door again. She thinks
she’ll like that color.”
“Sure,” said Charlie, “but
how’ll I get out there ?”
“Drive one of the cars,” said
the mogul.
“But the cars are all out,”
said Charlie. “There’s only
your .”
I leave the blank because no
mere trade-name could do
justice to the mogul’s car: so
elegantly Jong, it was said that
it could barely turn in Eliza-
fwh-ctropt
w ’ , ... ,
J J 1 ? e w or e Ah b K nd '
A 1 k a b 'f C L body S u°. ne
Ik e glass, and it rode on white-
waM tyres.
, lVe ou h sa id the
mogul, and hung up.
Because he always liked to
look his best when he went
near his boss’s home, Charlie
stepped to his locker and
donned his suit. He took out
a clean white apron.
Then he opened the big
doors and eased the car along
to a hardware shop for the
paint, and so to the mogul’s
place in a distant suburb. He
swept through the great sand-
stone pillars at the entrance
and crunched slowly around
the red-gravel drive and pulled
up at the front door.
Charlie alighted and donned
the spotless apron over his
blue-striped suit.
Then he went to the boot
and took out the tin of paint
and his brush. He walked up
the front steps to the door, left
ajar for him, and began to paint
it. When he finished, Charlie
stepped back to admire it. The
mogul and his wife came out
and were enthusiastic.
They went inside again and
Charlie put the paint-tin back
in the boot. He took off his
apron and opened the car door
and got in.
“Just a moment,” someone
called.
Charlie looked up, over the
fence. Along the wall of the
place next-door, five house-
painters were standing on a
plank between two ladders,
their brushes hanging limp.
The one who had spoken
called out again.
“Excuse me,” he said, “but
what sort of prices do you
charge?”
Charlie just gave them a
bland smile. It has probably
haunted them ever since.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 435
Across
I—Wave the pony-riding Yankee like a wet sheet bunk. (10)
s—Mineral5 —Mineral talk is German for it. (4)
9—Premier street is after timber. (5)
11 —A rustle four changed twice. (4-4)
14— Classical swimmer with the skinny red back. (7)
15— Boats wrecked by a bit of bragging way behind the
snake. (5)
17—How to be in Essen is demonstrated. (5)
19 —The surroundings of the great Chicago crook? (3)
20 —Back street acting the role of
cricketer Craig, half-caste. (8)
22—About midway between Leeds
and York, a seaman meets
Elizabeth and Lizzie. (8)
26 — ’Nothing excites it in Shakspeare.
(3)
27 Double vowel cordage. (5)
28— Ben with a horse to ride. (5)
29 — Alderman often on an apple-farm
with no backing. (7)
30 — Esmond finances the party
extracts from the court records. (8)
31 — Satan's phone-number, or the
answer he gives if you call him?
(5)
32 Highball ingredient, according to
the article on the turf. (4)
33 — Lodge with these rum customers
who aren’t ladies. (10)
Down
2 Friendly inquiry as to whether
Yours Truly is a communication.
(8)
3 Taking the count away from
home. (3)
4 Big-ship liberality. (7)
6 A doctor and I meeting an
English conductor named Boult.
(6)
7 Tunes combined a shopfitting
spike. (12>
8— Respect for, the hand that feeds
November accommodation in
Melbourne with nothing. (8, 4)
10—Rude remarks about the Bridge
and the Harbor are bound to
make this beer. (6, 6)
12 — Say the knitwear belongs to you,
stealers of mining rights. (5-7)
13 — Uncle Remus’s brother. (4)
16—Have possession of. (3)
18—Greeting story on it is a school
study. (2)
21— Market to measure and none spoil
a Swiss patriot and love a coastal
fort. (8)
22 Beard of the corn. (3)
23 The lines pointing to these
directions form a right angle in
French. (2)
24 — Finally, there is the “not so
babyish Teddy- bear in confusion
when first discounted. (7)
25 Victim’s comment when a brick
falls on his toe. (4)
27 —Deprecated Tutankhamen
Edward. (6)
31—Promontory tiller. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 434


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Sulscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription' is paid direct to
"The Bulletin" or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2'lB/6 Foreign .... £3/8/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
disciplinarian, with a bristling
black moustache and a fear-
some rasping voice, I became
friendly during my inglorious
military career as quarter-
master-sergeant, when we hob-
nobbed over rifles and ammuni-
tion while the school was at
drill. George took it home and
ate it. Similarly, when, prowl-
ing the school-farm, I had the
triumph of shooting a cock-
quail in a boxthorn hedge with
my air-gun, I found it advis-
able to pack the bird in my
boot-box and take it home to
Eltham in the weekend ; where,
to add to the pleasure of dis-
playing it, I found Dick
Knuckey, a most notable
sportsman with equally notable
whiskers, dining with my father
on wild duck.
As for the wild duck which
we ourselves—Des Carter,
Cully Mac Diarmid, Ca 11 y
Callaghan and I; I really must
exempt Cardo Evans from this
awful deed —bagged on the
ornamental pond in Pukekura
Park, a feat even more glorious
than the gaffing of the four-
pound trout and indeed the
topmost peak of all my
scholastic achievements, that
had to be eaten in a privacy
from which even the most
broadminded of masters,
parents or sportsmen were
excluded. We thought we
could be expelled for it.
By that time we had moved
from our dug-out under the
wattles. Such is the nature
of man that he finds all secret
societies, whether of another
religion or another race or
nation, whether of writers
immersed in their art or merely
of five small boys lurking in a
dug-out, intolerable: the enemy
there may be plotting his down-
fall : worse, they may be think-
ing superior thoughts ; worse
still, they may secretly be enjoy-
ing themselves: and so down
upon our dug-out, with clods
and buckets of water down the
•chimney, with the clumping of
hooves upon the clay-covered
corrugated-iron roof, thundered
the Goth, the Vandal and the
Hun, in the shape of school-
boys often unpleasantly large.
It is the law of life ; some build
dug-outs and some destroy
them ; and it was well to have
learned so useful a lesson early.
But I do not recall that our
forced retreat from the ruins of
that dank burrow in the clay,
dear as it was to us, the work
of our own hands and the one
spot in the whole of our regi-
mented existence where life
made sense, caused us any pro-
found regret. True, we had had
lyrical times there, smoking
Muratti’s Russian Blend
cigarettes which a dayboy pro-
cured for us, cooking sausages
stolen from the school meat-
safe (raiding which, by means
of the loose screen at the back,
Cully Mac Diarmid scored a
tremendous clip on the ear
from Bill Moyes one black wet
Saturday night): but the
collapse of one pattern of life
is merely, for ardent spirits, the
beginning of another. It
occurred to us that an even
more desirable residence would
be a hut on the banks of the
Te Henui at the back of the
farm, far from the reach of the
vandal, tucked away in thick,
tangled bush; and if the New
Plymouth Borough Council
still retains any curiosity as to
the fate of the grey palings
which fenced in its gravel-yard,
that is where they went.
There were indeed weeks of
happy scrounging when five
small boys, loaded like ants,
might have been seen —but
never were —dragging over hills
and gullies their treasures of
council - palings, rusty
corrugated-iron from the cow-
shed, old bags and boards and
bricks and drain-pipes from
wherever they could be found.
It was a noble edifice when
completed, wobbly and dilapid-
ated like some palatial pig-sty,
and we were inordinately proud
of it. Nobody else, so far as we
knew, had ever built a hut at
school.
We were never raided. At
ease we swam in the small glit-
tering pools of the Te Henui;
at ease we boiled in a kerosene-
tin the eels we caught from the
stream, invariably very thin
and black with silver bellies,
tasting deliciously ; at ease we
roved the bush and the
neighboring farmlands, stealing
green lemons or eating ki-kis
(pronounced giggys) which are
the fleshy centre of some
parasitical growth on native
tiees, reputed to have been
enjoyed by the Maoris ; and at
ease in that leafy privacy we
cooked and ate the great duck
from Pukekura Park.
I forget who first suggested
that piece of villainy. Probably,
since we passed through the
Park regularly on our way
home from compulsory church
on Sundays, the Devil
prompted us all simultaneously.
There was always, near the
kiosk, a crowd feeding the
ducks ; and, the tamest of birds
but still by definition “wild,”
the grey duck of New
Zealand that is called the black
duck in Australia, the same
romantic birds of swamp and
river and lake that, with their
associations of remote waters
and gunshots in the misty
dawn, used to hang by pairs in
the kitchen at Eltham until
Dick Knuckey and my father
judged they were ripe enough
to eat —there score* of these
noble creatures dabbled and
jostled, whispered and quacked
and skittered across the lake
. . . temptations to both the
flesh and the spirit such as no
rightminded schoolboy could
resist.
Across the water from the
kiosk, hard by a rustic bridge,
there was a little bay where
visitors seldom congregated. It
seemed possible that if you
stole a slice or two of bread
from breakfast, carefully pre-
serving them through the long
but sometimes unexpectedly
amusing hours of “Teddy”
Strong’s sermon, and threw
them into that little bay, you
might be able to lure the ducks
away from the watching
crowd ; and then if you were a
good enough shot with a stone
—and Des Carter at any rate
had an unerring eye . . .
Alas, it was indeed possible.
I pass over the scene on that
bright Sunday morning as
quickly as possible : the crowd
by the kiosk, the deluded ducks
swimming to the bread in the
little bay, the moment of awe-
stricken triumph when one of
them fell to our onslaught, the
hysterical mingling of joy and
terror when that duck began to
come to life again as Cully
Mac Diarmid struggled to tuck
it under his overcoat while
visitors began to stroll towards
us ... I hastily transport myself
to the hut by the Te Henui
where, high in a near-by tree,
the bird in a stolen pillow-case
(to keep it from the flies) hung
for a week until we, and it,
were ready for the banquet.
It is a wonder anyone ever
lives through his boyhood. The
night we ate that duck —we
roasted it in* a kerosene-tin —I
was so shaking and sweating
and freezing with influenza that
I could hardly endure either
the heat of our fire or the
draughts that whistled in
through the cracks of our ram-
shackle palace. Yet never did
a bird taste more glorious;
never in all our schooldays was
there so wonderful and wicked
a deed.
True, a little deeper into
Pukekura Park, in a secluded
ornamental pond where he
swam alone like a king, there
was a magnificent white swan
. . . but there our hearts failed
us. Even Bill Moyes, we felt
with profound conviction,
would not have stood for that
one.


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
CONSERVATION IN U.S.
I>EFORE he left Australia Dr.
W. van Dersal, Deputy
Administrator of the United
States Soil Conservation
Service, gave members of the
Australian society, “Men of the
Land,” an interesting talk on
what was being done in his
field in the U.S.
“As far as possible,” Dr.
van Dersal said, the initiative
in soil-conservation work was
left to the local communities.
“We think the people know
what they want to do, and we
think the people are 'the
Government. The second thing
is that with the necessary
technical advice, so that they
can understand the problem
fully, the people can best do
the job.
“Now, how do we go about
this business? Well, in the
United States we have already
several hundred districts —two-
thousand - seven - hundred
governmental units. They are
part of the State Governments.
It is as though the Slate
Government of New South
Newly-shorn sheep
have a much higher
skin temperature
than woolly sheep.
Overheated rams soon
become infertile and
for this reason should
be provided with ade-
quate shade in the
ram paddock. This
is just another
example of stock care
which pays good divi-
dends as does also the
marking and tailing
of lambs by “Elas-
-IX3IOI-” Rubber Rings
—a method which
provides protection
against fly-strike, set-
back and disease.
Wales actually delegated to
people in various communities
in New South Wales their
authority and responsibility for
doing work in the soil-con-
servation field, and said, ‘Now
you go ahead and do it, you’ve
got the authority.’
“Two - thousand - seven -
hundred places like this cover
"No, thanks — here , have a tailor-made.”
about ninety-two per cent, of
all the land in States.
Now ninety-two per cent.- of the
land in the United States is
governed by these two-
thousand - seven - hundred dis-
tricts, each of which is a part
of its State Government.
“This is how it happens. In
the first place, a group of land-
owners in a territory where
they think they have some soil-
and water - conservation
problems begin to talk it over.
They start talking about this
problem that they have —it may
be gullies, it may be wind-
erosion, it may be a lack of
water, it may be too much
water. As we see it, soil-
conservation includes all
problems involved in the soil.
It includes problems of land-
use: whether you are going to
cultivate it, whether you are
going to put down pasture,
whether you are going to plant
trees, whether you are going
to use it for the production of
wild-life or fish or whatever —
all that complex, as we see it,
is a problem of the soil, or
land, if you like.
“People who have such
problems set up a petition. Not
much of this is going on now,
because, as I said, ninety-two
per cent, has already been done.
The remaining eight per cent,
can set up a petition asking the
State to do something about
their particular problem. The
State then has a hearing, at
which everybody says what he
thinks about this matter.”
Opinion may be divided at
the meeting. The matter is put
to a vote, and if a majority
(which varies with States ; two-
thirds in some, but, usually, a
simple majority) decides that a
soil - conservation district
should be established, the State
does* so. Boundaries are set,
the appropriate legal action
is taken, and a District Govern-
ing Body is set up: three local
landholders, who are elected,
and two Government
appointees.
“Here, then, we have a
political body which under the
laws of all the States actually
has authority and responsibility
for doing this broad type of
soil-conservation work that I
mentioned. They have a great
many powers under their
various Acts. They can do
research if they want to, they
can receive gifts of any kind,
they can conduct all sorts of
educational work if they like,
but the most important thing
of all is that they can conduct
a programme of soil-
conservation.”
After explaining something
of the organisation of the
Federal agency, the Soil Con-
servation Service, Dr. van
Dersal went on to describe
how soil-conservation pro-
grammes work in practice:
“The Soil Conservation Ser-
vice can work in any of these
fields of land-, and water-use.
We are not restricted to the con-
trol of erosion. We are in a
position, therefore, to help the
district, because the Soil Con-
servation Service is a technical
agency. Many people ask:
‘Do you people pay money to
farmers to do these things?’
The answer is, in the United
States we do, but the Soil
Conservation Service does not.
It only provides technical assist-
ance. We get together with the
District Governing Body and
develop a very close working
relationship. Whenever there is
a technical question as to
which is the best way to do
this job, the technicians in the
work-unit call on the next unit,
and so on. They have tremend-
ous resources behind them to
give the technical answers, but
when it is a question of which
farm is going to be treated,
bow soon, what priority should
be given to this area as opposed
to this area in the district, the
board makes the decision.
“There are two possible
kinds of programmes. One
kind is a Government pro-
gramme with advice from the
local citizens, and the other
kind is a programme of the
local citizens with advice from
the Government. It is this
second type that I am talking
about. It is such a simple idea
that it had escaped us in the
United States for quite some
time.
“Now we set up a work-unit,
and we commence with a soil-
conservationist who is a
specialist in land-use. He
always has on hrs staff a soil-
surveyor, because in the Soil
Conservation Service we make
all the soil-surveys made in
the United States. Every farmer
who wants to work with his
district gets a map of his farm
—aerial photographs showing
the soils, and so on.
“We may have an engineer
who may be a specialist on
drainage, or irrigation, or just
a general civil - engineer,
depending on the needs of the
situation. We may have on the
staff a forester if it is a forest
area. We may have a ranch
man. What we mean by ‘ranch’
in the United States is that sort
of pasture that you don’t plant
—native grass. A true ranch
in the United Slates is a big


• WOOL-STOCK
% • INSURANCE
; • MERCHANDISE
:• TRAVEL
' • FINANCE
B£S
a
8
n
8
1
*>-
IS**?
-.•«
W
area of ranch land. We could
list quite a lot of specialists here
in the work-unit.
“In addition, we have what
we call assistant-conserva-
tionists, who don’t have to be
technically trained, but who are
very important people. They
have a big part in getting the
work done.
“The soil - conservationist
calls on the farmer, and sub-
sequently provides him with a
complete farm-plan. A farm
has to be considered as a unit,
because a gully results from
what’s going on upstream. In
other words, as we see this
problem, all of the farmer’s
property needs to be reviewed,
discussed and . considered—-we
need to know what he wants
to do. The whole set of
problems needs to be con-
sidered on the basis of what
the soils say you can do and the
farmer’s preferences.
“If the land capability is such
that what the farmer says he
would like to do would destroy
the land, the soil-conserva-
tionist explains to the farmer
why that is so. The plan is
based on the decisions of the
farmer after all these questions
have been gone into. At this
stage we have a plan on paper.
A schedule is prepared step by
step to get this plan on to the
land.”
No technician, Dr. van
Dersal said, is in the position
of being able to substitute his
judgment for that of the local
people. “He can shed a great
deal of light on the whole
problem, but it is the local
people who solve their own
problems.”
The early Government
approach to soil-conservation
was on different lines. With
the change of emphasis, there
has been a great increase in
soil-consfi vation work: “I
have seen it over and over
again in the United States —
when local people discover that
they are the Government, then
things begin to happen in the
soil-conservation field. The
multiplication of soil-conserva-
tion work which has resulted is
beyond anything we believed
possible.
‘‘These soil-conservation
districts begin calling in
technical assistance, they begin
getting the help of contractors,
and of equipment industries. I
have a list of 6CO different kinds
of organisations which are
helping soil-conservation
districts do a job, not just by
moral support, but with money,
labor, time and materials. The
districts have brought every-
body in on the soil-conserva-
tion business.
“There are now very few
banks in the United States that
will lend money on land or
farming equipment unless the
farmer has an agreement with
his soil-conservation district to
carry out a conservation plan.
The banks see it this way, if
your capital—that is, land —is
going to depreciate, they don’t
want to lend money on it; if
your capital is going to
appreciate, they will lend
money on it.”
Touching the “small water-
shed work,” about which we
have heard a good deal recently
in Australia, van Dersal makes
the point that it is supple-
mentary to the work of the
army-engineers on big dams
and levees: “We have a very
healthy respect for the work
of the army-engineers... .I’m
afraid that in some instances
our friends have run away
from us a little with their ideas
in regard to that, when they
tell us that all you have to do
to control floods is to protect
the watershed. We don’t
believe that. But, in between,
there is a combination of big
dams and conservation work on
the watersheds.
“The Soil Conservation
Districts and the Soil Conserva-
tion Service will build small
dams, but only on individual
farms. But there are many
situations where it is necessary
to go beyond a single farm. We
have, under Public Law 566,
what we call the “small water-
shed programme.” Under that
programme we do a little bit
more than we would do on an
individual farm. We may
build detention structures of
some kind, and that may
involve work on several farms,
perhaps twenty or so —we leave
off where the army-engineers
take-over.
“This work, too, is being
done largely by groups of soil-
conservation districts. These
groups, recognising that there
are problems bigger than they
can solve on an individual-farm
basis, are getting together
organising associations of
districts, and by that means
undertaking to carry out this
new programme of small water-
shed work. This involves the
construction of reservoirs.
“Here again, it is the local
people who must contract for
that work. The Government
does not contract. Under this
programme, which is a little
different to the general soil-
conservation programme, the
the Government pays, on an
average, fifty per cent, of the
cost.”
The Soil Conservation
Service consists of 14,000
people, and spends approxi-
mately $l2O million a year, of
which “a very considerable
amount” is now used on small
watershed work.
Dr. van Dersal said he didn’t
consider it his business to tell
Australians how to carry out
soil-conservation work. He
had come here to take back
ideas. He hoped to send
various specialists from the Soil
Conservation Service to study
in detail certain aspects of the
work being done here. He
thought there should be a two-
way traffic in conservation
ideas between Australia and tha
United States^
David Petherbridge,
(Honorary Secretary,
“Men of the Eiind” Society)!
1
Devons at Sydney
The report on Devon cattle
in a contributed article on the
Royal Sydney Show (B,
24/4/’57) was incorrect—there
were 66 entries from seven
studs. The judge was H. R.
Trethewie, of Whisloca, North
Esk, Tasmania, whose family
has been breeding Devons
since 1843. Mr. Trethewie,
who judged the breed in
Sydney eight years ago, and
has since visited leading studs
in the U.K., said that there had
been a tremendous improve-
ment in the Devons shown af
Sydney, and that the respective
champions this year would
hold their own With any
animals he had seen in Eng-
land. The high quality of the
section was reflected in the
sales, with 19 bulls selling to
485gns. and averaging 230fgns,
Collecting Tree-seed
“Billjim”: It’s often a good
idea to collect and store seed:
there may be no tree-nurseries
handy ; or you may want to
make sure of the continuity of
a well-tried strain.
Don’t collect from very
young or very old trees; best
seed comes from trees in
middle-age. Some trees bear


Best
Mineral
Supplement
i
If
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-C>3 makes
thS really palatable and wholesome lick.
OS
Ift'
iSfcO
5U*"-
fV 6O*
BOH*
rv**
Irt-***
65%
*Dlc-€a£&L
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRL-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any porHcalon gladly lopplloA
Writ. to DAVIS GELATINE: G tQ In Sl],
SYDNEY • WO Bo* 4058. MELBOURNE • 6 P.Q.
Boa lI 2F. ADELAIDE • GJ>.O 80. ISBK. BRISBANE
• G.P O 80. SBB. PERTH
FROM LEADING; STOCK & STATION AGENTS
good crops of seed only
occasionally (as infrequently as
seven years).
Cones or other fruit must be
ripe before being collected, and
generally the fruit has to be
cut open for inspection.
Mature seed will have a brown
seed-coat and be firm and waxy
inside.
On some trees, notably the
pinus species, cones remain
closed for some time, thus
allowing plenty of time for
collection, but in others, such
as cypress, fir and cedars, the
cones open as soon as mature.
Then they disintegrate into a
mass of cone-scaies and seed.
With these, seed must be col-
lected as near to maturity as
possible, and before shedding
has taken place.
For trees with cones open-
ing suddenly, best collection-
method is probably laying
sheets on the ground ; for
others, the job can be done with
a ladder. Of course, the job
is much easier with trees that
have been cut-down, but be
sure that the cones are mature,
and the trees are suitable
parent-types, before using the
axe.
With the oak, ash and native
timber-trees, extraction isn’t
difficult as they can be hand-
picked. However, with seed
held in fleshy fruit it will have
to be softened by steeping in
water, and the seeds separated
from the pulp by several wash-
ings. Seeds should then be
dried in the sun.
Where heat is necessary to
open cones or capsules (as in
the eucalypts) care must be
taken to see that the tempera-
ture does not get beyond
130 deg. F. If a large quantity
is being treated, a box with a
wire-netting side, turning on an
axle, is useful equipment.
Seeds which have “wings”
can be dealt with by “dewing,”
and, where this is not success-
ful, by rubbing in a bag. The
“dewing” process is wetting and
spreading in the sun on a day
of light breeze, which will blow
aw ? ay the “wings.”
For small quantities, clean by
sieving twice, through large and
small sieves. In storing, see
that seed is thoroughly air-
dried, and kept in a tempera-
ture between 32deg. and 40deg.
F. Ash is almost unique in that
it does best stratified in sand ;
a layer of sand is put in the
bottom of a container, then a
layer of seed, then another
layer of sand and seed. When
stratified seed is sown, the
sand and seed can be sown
together.
Soil-conservation
Machine
“C.A. A.”: An American
machine designed to control
soil-erosion has been success-
fully tested in Victoria, and
seems likely to interest land-
owners in other States. It is
called the Finn Mulch-
spreader, Hydroseeder and
Klodbuster.
The mulch-spreader applies
mulch and bitumen to the
steep slopes of batters, where
seed is held and germinated
quickly. The hydroseeder
throws a mixture of seed,
fertiliser and water up to
100 ft. The klodbuster, which
consists of a series of chains
with picks, is pulled by a
tractor to break-up hard com-
pacted surfaces and provide a
reasonable seed-bed ready for
the other equipment.
Asparagus
“Ann”: Successful stands of
asparagus at Bathurst, Cowra
and the rich river-flats of the
Riverina have made a valuable
contribution to the agriculture
jf N.S.W.
Although it is widely relished
as a delicacy today, as it was
m ancient Roman times, little
is known generally about the
plant.
Ot its hundred-odd varieties,
only a few are edible, and these
have to be cultivated in a deep,
fertile, friable, soil, kept free
of weeds and with good drain-
age. Provided conditions are
suitable, the plant is com-
paratively easy to grow, and
with seasonal cultivation will
sometimes continue production
up to as long as 12 years.
Crowns or roots are sown
some 18in. deep, and when the
plants appear above the soil
the rows are hilled, to blanch
the shoots. This method pro-
duces white asparagus. The
underground-shoots are cut
during the spring, as their
points begin to appear above
the ground. The cutting is done
with special knives with a V-
shaped cutting-edge. The work
is laborious, but experienced
men earn up to £4O a week.
No hilling is required for the
production of green asparagus.
The green shoots or spears
above the ground are also cut in
the spring, when they are young
and tender.
After harvest, the asparagus
is allowed to grow into stalky-
fern-like plants. These tops
are later cut, chaffed, and
spread as fertiliser.
During the off-season, the
fields are cultivated and the
hilled rows levelled-off. Later,
the rows are hilled again for
the growing-season, and this
also provides ready-made
drains for irrigation.
The plant will grow on the
coast, but thrives bes. . here
winters are cold.
Protecting Green
Timber
“B.B.”: C.5.1.R.0. has come
to light with another simple
process to immunise green
timber against insect-attack.
The idea extends the Division
of Forest Products cold-dip
process—originally developed
for the treatment of green
veneers—to sawn timber of
scantling-size.
Already the process has been
applied to the treatment of
klinki-pine for the construction
of 50 houses in New Guinea.
The process does away with
large and costly tanks, and no
steam is necessary as in pre-
vious treatments for sawn-
limber. It also eliminates the
need for frequent chemical
analysis of the preservative
solution, which is essential in
the present tank-process.
The green timber is dipped
momentarily in a solution con-
taining a boron and a fluorine
compound. Enough solution is
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(9/5/’57)
j _ General rains likely over a large part of Queensland
during June, heaviest in southern Queensland, a prospect of
flooding in the south-west, but light rain only in the
peninsula, gulf country and far scuth-west.
Reasonably good general rains are indicated in N.S.W.
during June, although the central coast and southern table-
lands may get only light to moderate rains. Better falls may
sccur in July, although the spring rains should be patchy.
Victoria shouid get general rains in June, although
tnese rains should be mainly below normal, apart from
heavier falls in the western division. Heavy rains are indi-
cated during August and September.
General rains below average should occur in South
Australia during June, particularly light in the Murray
Valley and interior. Similar conditions are likely in July.
General rains are indicated in the south-west agri-
cultural areas of Western Australia during June, with good
falls in the De Grey, south Gascoyne and goldfields. Rain-
fall should be poor elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


/
0
/ /\ \ V
irons
smoother
faster!
100%
BRITISH MADE
★ EASY TO USE.
★ DRAUGHTPROOF- USE IT IN OR OUT OF DOORS,
★ NO WIRES OR FLEXES.
★ COMPLETE AND SIMPLE HEAT CONTROL.
★ BURNS 4 HOURS ON ONLY |kd PINT
OF KEROSENE.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia.
In case of difficulty write for name of your
nearest Stockist to:
Mm
retained on the surface to
penetrate subsequently into the
timber to a depth of at least
half an inch. The wet timber
is then block-stacked for several
weeks, to allow deep diffusion
of the chemicals into the wood.
The normal dip-solution
provides protection against
lyctus- or anobium-borers,
but other chemicals can be
added to give protection against
termites and other insects.
Plastics
“Mac”: Reference to the use
of plastic drying-grounds for
dried-fruits (B. 20/3/’57) leads
to consideration of other uses
of plastics in agriculture, such
as for food-packaging and
piping.
Another very valuable use
will become available if experi-
ments with plastic-sheeting to
line a dam at Mornington (Vic.)
are successful. In many parts
of the continent, pastoral
industries have been limited
because dams and tanks would
not hold water. Use of plastic-
sheeting to line dams would
cwercome this difficulty.
At Mornington it is planned
to store water for irrigating
berry-fruits, and also for keep-
ing temperatures down in a
fruit cool-store.
Another interesting phase of
ihe Mornington experiment is
that excavation has been made
by loosening the soil with
explosives, instead of by
ploughing or bulldozing.
Sow and Young
“Wilco”: Success in pig-rais-
ing is wrapped-up in good care
of the sow before and just after
farrowing. Only sows and
boars eight months old and
older should be mated, and
both should be healthy and
well-developed.
Nursing the breeding-sow by
shutting her in a small pen for
a long stage of her pregnancy,
and denying her proper
exercise, is a mistake likely to
end in the loss of both litter
and sow. Without free exercise
and green-feed, farrowing sows
get constipated.
Keep her on a sound balanced
ration right up to and
after farrowing—don’t just try
to build-up her vitality with
ai ton of tucker after she has
produced the litter.
It’s time to put her in the
farrowing-yard about two
weeks before date of farrow-
ing ; she gets time to settle-
cown. Have a good board-
floor shed ready for her, and
try to make friends with her,
so that she won’t give trouble
if she needs help afterwards.
See that her bowels are work-
ing freely—a bit of bran with
her daily tucker will help, but
give purgatives if there is any
stoppage.
Most breeders take the litter
away from the sow for a few
hours immediately after
farrowing if she is very rest-
less ; it may prevent losses.
About a week or ten days
after farrowing you can start
increasing her ration without
fear of causing digestive dis-
orders in the suckers. Feeding
too heavily at first can cause
white-scour in the litter; lack
of minerals in the sow’s diet
during pregnancy also pre-
disposes to this disease.
A mineral-drink given to
individual suckers—a solution
of iron and .bluestone in water
—will stop the scour in the
litter.
It is, of course, better to see
that the breeding-sow has
access to a mineral-mixture
during pregnancy than to have
to dose a lot of difficult
young-’uns later.
Start creep-feeding at three
weeks. It helps the little pigs
along, makes it easier for them
when the sow is taken away at
weaning-time (two months
after birth), and lets the sow
build-up again.
Weed—Not Feed
“Cupboard”: Suggestions
that skeleton-weed is worth
keeping for its food-value are
typical of the defeatist attitude
which seems to infect every
community whose land is
colonised by a weed.
The thing has happened
several times before when a
weed has been resisted strongly
until it has become part of the
countryside: it has then been
welcomed as a great benefactor
which has arrived to pul more
money in the inhabitants’
pockets.
Recent references to skeleton-
weed as “summer lucerne” are
nothing more than a tribute to
the real lucerne, which has no
peer as a summer fodder.
People who call stinkwort
“Mallee lucerne” are probably
the ones who lose most sheep
from stinkwort-poisoning every
year.
The main fact is that nothing
is designated as a weed unless
it is such a nuisance that it
interferes with normal farming
and grazing practices. For this
resson, skeleton-weed, or any
other weed, is at least not as
good for feed as other plants
which it is in danger of replac-
ing.
Two Shearings
“Nilma”: Shearing the flock
twice a year, instead of once, is
gaining popularity in southern
Australia despite the cold
winters. One reason for this
is the theory that the protein-
containing yolk rises in the
fleece during the last three
months of its growth.
As this period coincides
with lambing in many flocks,
it is felt that the protein is
concentrated in the covering at
the expense of the lamb. At
any rate, owners who shear
twice a year believe that their
lambs have been much better
since they have adopted this
practice.
Of course, contributing
factors are clean udders, which
ensure that lambs get that
important first drink ; the fact
that shorn ewes are not cast
on their backs so easily before
lambing; and, instead of
I
weathering out a storm at the
expense of their lambs, they
seek shelter during the rough
weather. Fleeces yield better,
too.
Farm Hints
“P.”: If rearing successive
batches of chickens on free
range, a portable chicken-
house is of great advantage, as
each lot can have the advantage
of new ground, thus minimis-
ing the chances of parasitic
infection. Moving the shelter
periodically, according to the
number of chickens enclosed,
will also ensure even manuring
of the ground.
“Joe”: A cattle-dog with the
neck well-set into the shoulders
has an advantage over dogs
with long necks, as he is able
to crouch or turn more quickly.
Tight lips, rather than loose
lips, are another asset, allow-
ing the dog to bite without risk
of injuring himself.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Tributes to the work of the Most Rev.
J. J. Booth, Anglican Archbishop of
Melbourne, and Mrs. Booth were voiced
at a civic reception given at the Town
Hall, by the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress (Cr. Sir Frank and Lady
Selieck). On the dais were Bishop
Simmonds and Monsignor Fox (repre-
senting Archbishop Mannix), Minister for
Labor Harold Holt (representing the
Prime Minister), and Chief Secretary
Arthur Rylah (representing the Premier).
Mrs. Booth chose a waisted coat of
slate-grey, made' with a deep shawl-
collar ; her matching high-crown hat was
of melusine. Lady Selieck added to her
mist-blue Angora frock a matching
toque of melusine banded with mist-blue
satin, and a mutation-mink stole. With
her full-length coat of dyed-ermine Mrs.
Rylah wore a curvette of brown velvet,
finished with bronze-bead embroidery.
Among the guests were Acting Chief
Justice Sir Charles Lowe and Lady Lowe ;
Legislative Council President Sir Clifden
Eager and Lady Eager ; Sir Wilfrid Kent
Hughes (he has had his certificate of
baptism looked up at St. Peter’s, Eastern
Hill, and finds the name is Wilfrid) and
Lady Kent Hughes; Lieut.-General Sir
Sydney and Lady Rowell; Lieut.-General
Sir William Bridgeford and Lady Bridge-
ford ; Sir John and Lady Jungwirth, Dr.
and Mrs. J. R. Darling, Mr. and Mrs.
A. T. Smithers, Mr. and Mrs. Jack Home,
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Wootton. Mr. and
Mrs. Ken Luke, Sir George and Lady
Coles, and Dean Babbage and Mrs.
Babbage.
ft ft ft
Mrs. Henry Bolte, wife of the Premier,
opened the Mediterranean Fair held in
the University grounds to aid the Union
House building-appeal, and at which
students in fancy-dress and national-
costumes sold sweets and other tooth-
some edibles.
One of the highlights was an exhibition
of art from private homes exhibited
publicly for the first time. These included
a blue-and-gold casket of Sevres china
loaned by Sir Harold and Lady Gengoult
Smith. In Mrs. G. I. Stevenson’s collec-
tion were a beautiful fire-screen of
Renaissance silk and velvet embroidered
in gold fleurs-de-lis; a small Italian-
walnut chest with a serpentine front; and
an old Italian screen, the top panels
of carved walnut Cupids and bowls of
fruit. A 17th-century combined cabinet
and writing-desk of walnut came from the
home of the Marchesa Serafini, wife of
the Italian Consul-General. The two
Turkish rugs from Sir Thomas and Lady
White were those on which Sir Thomas
slept when in captivity in Afion Kara
Hissar in World War I.
Dame Mabel Brookes loaned the
amethyst necklace given to her when she
was serving with the Red Cross in
Egypt in 1914-15 ; it was from a mummy
found during excavations. Also from
her collection was an antique carved-
ivory figure of Marie Antoinette, the skirt
of which opens to show a tableau-scene
of the French Queen with her husband,
the Dauphin and . two jailers. The
exhibition also included paintings,
tapestries, silver-, copper- and glass-ware,
sculpture and books, all from countries
which border the Mediterranean.
ft ☆ *
When Susan Geoffrey, elder daughter
of Mrs. Percy Northrup, of Toorak, and
of Mr. Geoffrey Cohen, of Perth, was
married at the Toorak Presbyterian
Church she wore a lovely bouffant gown
of white organza and a tulle veil caught
with a circiet of orange-blossom. Her
bouquet was of white orchids, gardenias
and azaleas. Bridesmaids Were her sister
Patsy, Margaret Harman, Jocelyn
Paynter and Margaret Campbell; they
wore ballerina frocks of pale-blue tulle,
with blue velvet bands trimmed with
white flowers in their hair, and they
carried bouquets of white roses, gardenias
and azaleas. The bridegroom, Noel, is
the elder son of Mr. and Mrs. Harold
Harman, of Kew. Peter Clements was
best man and Graham Pizzey, Peter
Headlam and David Harman grooms-
men. Reception was held at the home
of the bride’s mother.
ft ft ☆
Mrs. M. Clements, president of the
American Women’s Auxiliary to the
Royal Children’s Hospital, entertained at
a morning “brunch,” when the star turn
was the serving of a “Tom and Jerry”—
the American version, which is a con-
coction of eggs, sugar, rye-whisky, milk,
Jamaica rum and a dash of nutmeg,
served hot in mugs. Over drinks plans
were discussed for the forthcoming
Fourth of July Ball (proceeds of which
are for the hospital); it will be held on
July 5 at the St. Kilda Palais. “Dance
in Disney Land” will be the theme of
the decorations, and organiser of the ball
is Mrs. Heathcote Wright. The Lieut.-
Governor (Sir Edmund Herring) and
Lady Herring and newly-appointed
American Ambassador William J. Sebald
and Mrs. Sebald will be present. Ticket-
secretaries are Mrs. L. F. Donnelly
(8J5519) and Mrs. W. L. Bohner
(WX4677).
# V *
This Letter watched with amazement
as scrambled-eggs were made from an
Espresso-coffee percolator at a luncheon
given at the Victoria to celebrate the
opening of an Espresso-coffee lounge by
Mr. Harry Bancroft. Two eggs were
broken into a stainless-steel jug, a little
milk, pepper and salt were added, then
the jug was held under a jet of steam ; '
and, presto! scrambled eggs coming
up! Mr. Bancroft, who manufactures
the percolators here under licence by
arrangement with Gaggia, of Milan, said
that somewhere in Australia this year
the 1000th Espresso-coffee lounge will
be opened. The Marchesa Serafini, wife
of the Italian Consul-General, said at
the luncheon that long before the First
World War Espresso-coffee was popular
in her country. Now Espresso is
achieving wide popularity.
Chrisanne, eldest daughter of Captain
Charles Burge, R.N. (Retd.), and Mrs.
Burge, of Sandringham, is home again
after three years in England, where she
finished her education. School-holidays
were spent in Holland with her maternal
grandmother. Chrisanne is now learning
the craft of display and window-dressing.
CANBERRA
Diplomats and public servants were
among the many invited to meet the new
High Commissioner for Canada, Mr.
T. W. L. MacDermott, at late-afternoon
receptions given by the first-secretary,
Mr. D. M. Cornett, and Mrs. Cornett
in the Hotel Canberra’s Blue Room.
Diplomats included the dean of the Dip-
lomatic Corps, Mr. G. E. L. Alderton,
and Mrs. Alderton ; the High Commis-
sioner for the United Kingdom and Lady
Carrington; the German Ambassador,
Dr. Hess, and Madame Hess ; also noted
Sir Arthur Fadden and the Minister for
the Interior, Mr. Alan Fairhall. The new
High Commissioner’s wife and three
children will shortly join him in
Canberra.
J? # #
Fourteen debutantes made their bow
to the Governor-General, Sir William
Slim, at one of Canberra’s oldest annual
social events, St. John’s Church Ball.
Their Excellencies were welcomed by the
rector of St. John’s, Bishop Arthur, and
Mrs. Arthur. Lady Slim wore a full-
length bouffant gown in black silk.
Floodlit autumn-foliage decorating the
Albert Hall enhanced the presentation


made by the president of the ball-
committee, Mrs. A. Griffiths, who wore
a graceful gown in grey lace. The ball
marked the hundred-and-sixteenth anni-
versary of the foundation of St. John’s
Church.
☆ ir ☆
Sir Daryl Lindsay, who had earlier
judged the entries in the second Canberra
Art Prize, officially opened the eighth
annual exhibition of paintings and pottery
at No. 8 Riverside. “Before Summer,”
an abstract oil-painting, strong in design
and color, won the 1957 award ; artist
Cliffton Pugh is a former student of the
National Gallery of Victoria. Mrs. Nancy
Parker, a Canberra artist, was awarded
second prize for her entry “Autumn
Walk.” In his address Sir Daryl stressed
the need for a suitable art-gallery for the
national capital—an opinion shared by
all art-lovers.
SYDNEY
Two first-nights at leading city theatres,
the spectacle of queues forming 19 hours
early for tickets to the Borovansky ballet
(braving all night the first snap of winter
in the cause), the prospect of a new play
at the Independent, the return of
Katherine Dunham at the Tivoli, and the
opening of the ballet-season this week
makes one feel that live theatre is truly
alive in Sydney today.
First opening last week was “The
Relapse” at the Elizabethan, with English
actor Paul Rogers. There was a full
house for this rollicking Restoration play,
which is beautifully dressed by Robin
Lovejoy. The Governor, Sir John
Northcott, was present, also Premier
J. J. Cahill and Mrs. Cahill, members of
the Elizabethan Ball committee, Mrs.
Marcel JDekyvere, Mrs. George Sample,
Mrs. J. N. Kirby, also Major J. F. Martin
and Mrs. Martin, and Miss Sheila Collett.
Noted Education Director H. S. Wynd-
ham there with Mrs. Wyndham (Restora-
tion drama is educational, even if it is
frivolous and rather shocking), and Mrs.
C. R. McKerihan, looking very attractive
in cinnamon lace, with daughter Del.
The following night “The Diary of
Anne Frank” opened at the Royal. After
seeing this play, so poignant and moving
is it, one felt that nothing could rate a
comment but the play itself. All that
one can say about the audience is that
it was the least restless that one has seen
for a long time. The story of the young
girl who, with her family, hides from the
Nazis in Holland for two years, unfolds
with such truth, so naturally and at
times gaily, that the tragedy of persecu-
tion, the strength and courage of
humanity and the beauty of youth are
brought home with overwhelming force.
It is not a play to be dissected ; it is a
play to.be seen.
☆ ☆ ☆
The problem of the week is how to do
justice to the 10th annual meeting of the
War Widows’ Guild (N.S.W.) in one
paragraph. Theje was the interest of
seeing Anzac House (where it was held)
for the first time ; the quality of the 18
speakers, led by the Governor and
including Federal president, Mrs. G. A.
Vasey, less provocative than usual; the
efficiency of Lieut.-General E. W. Wood-
ward in putting such a long agenda
through in an hour and a quarter ; the
General’s “Wait till 1 get you home”
look at Mrs. Woodward when she
referred to him as “Madame Chairman”;
Mrs. J. Metcalf’s reaction to the
General’s remark that women’s meetings
are thought to be noisy, obstreperous
and generally vexatious; Repat.’s
Deputy-Commissioner Leathart saying
that in his department it was an unwritten
law that war-widows’ claims must be
handled expeditiously ; Rear-Admiral
C. J. Pope's rejoinder that in his Services
Canteen Trust Fund it was a written law;
the opening remarks of Mrs. L.
Watkins, State president; the impressive
report presented by hon.-secretary Mrs.
R. A. Morrisey ; and, lastly, the tip-up
seats of the chairs, which sprang back so
smartly that the official party were as
jumpy as cats in saving one another from
sitting on the floor.
9
Lady Carrington opened the interesting
exhibition of famous paintings from Aus-
tralian homes at David Jones’ Gallery,
which has been organised by Mrs. Tom
Bateman in aid of St. Vincent’s Hospital
Centenary Appeal, and which can be
viewed until May 24. The opening was
on the spectacular side, well-attended and
particularly well-dressed. Many of those
who had lent pictures were present,
including Mrs. R. Instone and Mrs. Frank
Clune. One of the most interesting pic-
tures was an early Florentine “Madonna
and Child” lent by Mr. and Mrs. R.
Shaw ; a tiny oil, “The Sisters,” by Myer
von Bremen, lent by Mr. and Mrs. Fulop,
seemed to be the most popular piece.
Everyone wore her best hat to the open-
ing, among the prettiest being the candy-
pink mop-cap of Mrs. Peter Willis and the
toque in burnt-orange worn by Mrs.
Ronald Steuart.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the unusual parties of the week
was the Swiss fondue-party given by Leo
Buring Pty. and Kraft Foods in the Buring
wine-cellars in George-street. A variety
of cheeses was served with the appropriate
wines, and the climax of the party was
the serving of the fondue, a hot dish made
of cheese and wine. Everyone dipped his
or her bread in the fondue dish, the
penalty for dropping one’s bread being,
so it was said, the kissing of every pretty
girl in the room. Of course no one chose
to make this discrimination, which would
be worse than being a judge at a baby-
show. Also, someone said that the
penalty was that one had to give a pair
of stockings to every girl in the room,
and that, of course, was the end of it;
Here is the recipe for one of the
delicious cheese-dips that were served at
the party ; two 4oz. packages Philadelphia
Cream Cheese, 1 tablespoon prepared
horse-radish, 1 tablespoon minced
parsley, 1 tablespoon grated-onion, |
teaspoon sait, cup sour cream, 2 tea-
spoons lemon-juice. Cream the cheese
until smooth. Add all other ingredients
and mix well. Serve with chips, or
cracker-biscuits.
☆ ☆ ☆
Most fascinating household hint of
the week: “When boiling eggs place a
safety-pin in the saucepan to prevent
the shells breaking.” Also, it might hold
the pieces together if the shells should
break. Now in the morning you will
hear Mamma saying: “Have you got a
safety-pin? I want to boil an egg.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Flocks of people attended the furniture
exhibition at the Showground during the
week, mostly family groups and young
couples obviously contemplating
marriage. The trend to the modern line
is gradual and slow, but those stands
which showed the long, low line seemed
to attract considerable attention. One
exhibit showed saddle-chairs for cocktail-
bars, sidesaddle for ladies, astride for
men, and a little one (astride) for the
baby-bear. His would be for a milk-bar,
no doubt.
Pretty Jann Martin is the daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. T. H. Martin, of Vaucluse.
Recently engaged, she will marry Bill
Thomas, son of Mr. and' Mrs. Gladstone
Thomas, of Mosman, on October 19 in
the chapel of St. Ignatius College, of
which Bill is an “old boy.” Photo by
Norton Trevaire.
From “H.McD.”:
A jade ring in a gold setting, a gift
from her sister, Mrs. J. Dalyell (who
lives in Malaya), was worn by Margaret
Thompson, of Oatley, at her 21st-
birthday party at Victoria House,
Bexley, which 60 guests attended.
Margaret wore a lilac-pink nylon-
organza frock with a diamente-studded
top The toast of the guest-of-honor was
proposed by Harry Sprightwell, of
Oatley, and that of her parents by
Lawson Glassop, of Melbourne.


Largest Australian Coy,
Conducting all classes of
FIRE
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
“No. And if we don’t get a
good one the holiday’s over.
Where are you from?”
“Turtle Head. Your broad-
cast stirred ’em to action.”
“You’re the action?” says
Crocker. Plainclothes grins
round the chewed match.
“It’s pretty sure somebody
here knows more than he’s
saying,” he says.
“Always a sure bet any-
where,” says Crocker. “But
what’s the payoff? If some-
body knows what makes that
noise he’s nuts to keep it to
himself. Waiting for it every
night’s wearing the town to
shreds. Doing the town real
harm. Who’d have that kind
of a grudge?”
“Grudge, eh?” says Plain-
clothes.
A FTER breakfast Plain-
clothes sits with them on
the veranda and chews a fresh
match. Then he eases his bulk
out of the chair and jerks his
chin at cars parking around
the little church away on the
rise.
“What Father Mike doesn’t
know around here'd fit on a
pin.” He U-turns a dusty
Holden and snarls down the
road.
“Father Mike?” asks
Heemey.
“Met him at cricket-practice,”
says Crocker. “Knows all
about the people and nothing
about the noise.”
“Doesn’t seem much left.
You think the demon’s got a
line?”
“He’ll just muck about on
the grudge-angle. Look for
some crank with a snout on
the town and ask him how he
rigged the scare. He’s looking
for a lunatic Einstein.”
“Hear about the New Aus-
tralian who thought Einstein
was a Jimmy Woodser?” asks
Heemey. “What time’s the
bar open on Sunday?”
“That’s not bad! The bar?
When Malek gets out of bed,
when church comes out, when
"Shake it up—I've got a board-meeting at eight!"
the Tangie Creek team turns
up —whichever happens first.”
“It’s going to be hot for
cricket.”
“A day to stand still and hit
sixers. Begins to look as if
all I get out of this trip is
relaxation and a game of
cricket.”
“What’s wrong with that?”
“Not a thing! ” says Crocker.
He emerges from a light
doze, rubs a redhaired stubby
hand over his face, wrinkles
his nose.. “I smell something
female and exotic,” he
mumbles.
“I’m so glad you’ve been
resting, Mr. Crocker,” Rose
honey-contraltos over the back
of his chair. “Sven’s been
telling me about you. Your
batting.”
Crocker’s green eyes flick
sideways and collide with deep
brown pools of fire. He feels
the warmth. He studies the
flush on a cheek six inches
away. Something in Crocker’s
fat, tough face makes Rose
bubble right over.
“There, there! ” Crocker
says. “That all Sven’s been
telling you?”
“No. Oh, no! That’s the
Tangie bus.” She whirls away.
Men in white are tumbling off
a rattletrap in front of the
hotel. Crocker ignores them,
staring at Heemey.
“What’s happened to her?”
he explodes.
“What have you got,
Crocker?”
“Overflow. Wish she’d
overflow somewhere else. It’s
unsettling!” He gets to his
feet and Heemey follows him
along the veranda.
'VAA.KKA’S grin seems set for
the day in the deep-etched
swarthy face as he rattles off
the introductions.
Crocker finds himself grab-
bing a ring of hard fists.
Sinewy forearms rest round the
bar like tree-roots under
rolled sleeves. Malek, huge
and dour in a green silk shirt,
is doing good business.
Hansen cuts it short. “Hell,
let’s get started! ” he says.
Tall trees, shade - laden
tables, attendant Tooma
women, a scatter of vehicles,
tail-twitching horses, squatting
abos. watching keenly. Tea-
billies stand ready by aromatic
fires. Green flats shimmer
away to the circling range.
The white-clad figures move
like puppets in the sun.
“You look like a lobster,”
Heemey observes when the
field drifts into the shade for
lunch. Crocker’s done some
fierce outfielding.
"Couple of their men can
certainly smack ’em,” he
wheezes. “Being a Tooma
Tooman’s a tough business.”
“Tea, Mr. Crocker?”
“You’ll save my life!”
The women flutter round.
Rose floats along a line of
busy eaters like a butterfly.
“She’s still bursting with it,”
says Heemey.
“I’ll bet she and Hansen
have come to a firm decision,”
says Crocker.
“No firmer than Dadda’s! ”
says Heemey with something
like approval.
“Whose side are you on?”
“I’m damned if I know.”
The Tangie bats are
tenacious, and when their
innings ends Tooma has to
chase a big score, by local
standards. When Crocker
goes in he carefully parries the
slow guile of the Tangie
captain and the sizzling
eccentricities of a lanky loping
abo. bowler. He gets a
couple of tentative singles and
survives a ricochet that jars
him to the elbows, then lifts
one high into the hot blue
sky.
There’s a delighted scatter
under the trees as the ball
comes through with a crackle
of twigs for six. He belts
another one back past the
abo.’s head for four. The
lanky bowler rubs the side of
his head comically, waves the
field out and comes again.
The rust comes off Crocker
in chunks. The ball reaches
the boundary on various com-
pass-bearings, now and then
soaring in howitzer-trajectory
for six. Dogs join the outfield.
The roly-poly reporter has
proved himself a useful citizen
when a Tangie man puts an
end to it with a catch that
spins him backwards.
“By God, we aren’t dis-
graced ! ” says Tangie’s captain.
“Next year we'll turn on a
Tiger and attract talent.”
“You’ve won friends,”
Heemey tells Crocker. “Have
you influenced people?”
A sore shrug from a happy
Crocker.
“Well, if you’re all staying
for the dance . . .”
“You don’t think we came
for the cricket!”
“. . . we may as well go ancf
get cleaned up and rejuve-
nated!” says Hansen. It’s a
popular suggestion.
■pOR the sundown-session
A Yakka’s in high spirits.
“Why not switch that prize-
money to the best fancy-dress
tonight?” he says. “I’ll swipe
Hansen’s business-suit and go
as Robinson Crusoe!”


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA. —In Divorce.
No. 37 of 1956.
TO WERNER GUNTER GAEDCKE
formerly ol 50 Letitia Street Hobart
in the State of Tasmania whose present
address is unknown. —TAKE NOTICE
that a Petition has been filed in this
Court endorsed with a notice to you
to appear and answer the charges in
the Petition of JOSEPHINE GAEDCKE
of 11 Heemskirk Street Bellerive in
Tasmania married woman praying for
dissolution of her marriage on the
grounds of desertion IN DEFAULT of
your so appearing you will not be
allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said
charges proved and pronounce judgment
therein your absence notwithstanding
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that
for the purpose aforesaid an appearance
must be entered at the Principal
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tas-
mania Macquarie Street Hobart in the
State of Tasmania within Thirty day's
after the publication of this notice. —
DATED this 2nd day of May, 1957. —
H. R. DOBBIE, Principal Registrar.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Trieii
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she alwavs
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
Malek doesn’t enter into it:
“Dressing like a phony wolf
won’t get the money. It goes
for what the sign says-.”
Crocker catches him swing-
ing his unblinking kooka-
burra stare uneasily from
Hansen to Rose, busy behind
the bar. Malek senses some-
thing special about Rose
today and his feelers are out
for something tangible to grab.
Crocker lets his eyes rest on
Hansen, big, blond, unper-
turbed, not aloof now.
Expansive. He catches
Crocker’s eye, grins like a
happy schoolkid, victory-
clenches big hands over his
head. Crocker feels real
warmth in the gesture. Not
much of the withdrawn radio-
fanatic about Hansen now.
“Looks real smart in a shirt,
eh?” Yakka shouts above the
babble, slapping Hansen on the
back of that garment.
“He’s smart all right!”
Malek can’t leave it alone.
Water off a duck’s back to
Hansen.
Malek dumps beers before
them, sweeps-up the coins and
turns away. Yakka laughs at
the broad back hunched over
the cash-register.
“You like strife?” Crocker
asks him.
“You can’t beat it!” says
Yakka.
A lively affair, the dance.
The girls outnumbered and in
demand. Yakka shining as
guitarist and songster in an
orchestra that also boasts a
pair of gumleaf-blowers. Out-
side through the doorway
crush the moonlit sheen of
shirts, red stab of cigarettes,
easy talk and laughter.
“We’re going, going, going
to get married!” Rose tells
Crocker breathlessly as he
steers her over the candle-
greased floor in the whirl and
jostle of dancers.
It’s like holding a tropic
bird.
“Dad know?”
“Sven says he’ll let him
know tonight.”
“Let him know, eh? Just
like that!”
“Shock-treatment, Sven says.
He says a shock’ll do Dad
good.”
“Well, congratulations! And
good luck with the shocking.
Sven’s a mighty lucky man,”
says Crocker.
“Mr. Crocker, you’re a
darling!”
“That is shock-treatment!”
says Crocker.
He goes outside for a smoke,
wiping off the evidence with a
handkerchief. He sees Han-
sen stoking a barbecue fire, face
red in the glare. He watches
for a minute or two, then
walks across.
“Something smells good.”
“Hullo, Crocker old feller!
Feeling dry?”
“A bit.”
“I’ve got some cold ones in
the truck.”
He gets them and a couple
of glasses.
“So there is a Tiger,” says
Crocker.
Hansen finishes filling the
glass. Then takes his time
reading every wrinkle on
Crocker’s chubby face. Watch-
ing the flash of firelight on
Crocker’s thin green eyes.
Crocker just keeps looking at
him.
“There sure is, Crocker old
feller,” says Hansen.
“There’ll be skin and fur
flying when the trap clangs!”
“Would you miss it for a
million quid?”
“No. But I’ll stand well
back! Here’s luck.”
“To the Tiger, eh? Put it
right there, Crocker old
feller! ”
Crocker gets his hand back
and drinks the beer. Hansen’s
laughing now, in rare good
humor.
“That hundred quid’ll be a
nice surprise for Rose.”
Nugget bursts into the fire-
light. “How’s the cooking?”
“About ready. Here, grab
a T-bone.”
“You beaut! I’ll tell ’em to
come out. I’ve got to go back
to the hotel—Malek’s sent
word it’s past his bedtime.”
. “0.K., Nugget, see you
later.”
Silhouetted gaiety around
the fires, sparks leaping star-
wards, a warm jungle-scent
and the spitting of grills. Later,
the scattered sound of start-
ing cars, horses, farewell-
cooees. A drift to the hotel
for farewell-drinks.
'THE Tangie men aren’t
hardened to the Tooma
Tooma Tiger. The sound hits
them only once, and leaves
them unclenching their teeth
and spitting out ruined
cigarettes. The bar’s like a fox-
hole with another bomb on
the way. Tension stretches to
breaking-point, but the next
blast doesn’t come. Hansen
walks in.
“Come on,” he says. “I’ve
got him.”
“What?"
“Steady now,” he says, “and
quiet.” He jerks his thumb
at the reward-notice. “It’s
settling-day.”
Crocker nudges Heemey.
“This is it. Even Malek’s
going to hear it tonight!”
Hansen leads-along the dark
veranda, turns into a passage-
way, pauses at Malek’s closed
door. The shattering roar
of the Tiger may have dis-
turbed Malek, but not much.
His snores seem to be getting
their strength back.
“Sven! You’re not going to
wake Dad now? He’ll be
mad!"
“Wake him, Rose?” Yakka
mutters. “How could you . . .
after that?"
“Shut up!” says Hansen.
“Quiet, all of you. Hear that
snoring? Now listen!”
His hand moves along the
wall. And from out in the
street comes the sawmill
shriek, deep-down shuddering
bellow, deathrattling roar of
the Tooma Tooma Tiger.
Hansen opens the bedroom
door, flicks on Malek’s light,
shoves the stunned leaders of
the crowd into the room.
Malek, flat on his back on the
bed, still goes- through the
motions though with diminish-
ing vigor as the now-sustained
thunder in the air begins to
penetrate. As Malek wakes
with a jerk and a grunt the
Tiger goes off the air.
“Hell!” says Yakka, finger-
ing his eardrums. “800 to
you too!”
“What the hell . . .” Malek
starts up, big nose beaking at
them, grey hair on end, kooka-
burra-eyes wide awake now,
staring blackly.
“Give us just one small
demonstration - snore,” says
Hansen, a hand still on the
wall outside the door.
“Ptchaah!" go Malek’s thick
lips as he moves to come out
of bed with a rush. The blast
of sound from the street stops
him dead. His eyes pop and
the whites show all round.
“Wh-wh-wha-wha-aa"— —
Malek starts again and
recoils like a man who’s been
careless with an atom. Hansen
comes right into the room,
and more people crowd in
behind him. Malek sits
humped on the side of the bed,
shoulders nearly bursting his
puce pyjamas, propped on his
black-hairy paws.
He looks like a big thing
trapped. Nobody’s game to
poke him with sticks, except
Hansen.
“ You’re the Tooma Tooma
Tiger,” says Hansen. “Matter
of fact, you started in a small
way. To a couple of Yank
radio-contacts you were the pet
bunyip. Then you snow-
balled.”
Hansen gets hold of Rose’s
hand. Rose couldn’t look
more scared if tfrere were a
tiger in the room, but Hansen
sticks to his guns.
“We’re going to make that
reward easy for you,” he tells
Malek. “You can call it a
wedding-present.”
That room feels as though
something’s going to burst in
it. Malek starts shaking on
the side of the bed, and it’s a
wonder the bed can stand it.
He’s shaking with laughter
somewhere inside him. Then
it bursts out and it’s a good
job the amplification’s turned
off. Malek lumbers to his feet,
hitches his puce pyjama-pants,
holds out one big hand, both
hands.
“I’m not at my best this
time o’ the night!” he says.
A/fORNING finds Crocker
holding the telephone
like he’d hold a ruptured
appendix.
“Once upon a time,” he tells
the telephone, “there were
camouflaged loudspeakers in
a great big tree, a microphone
near the publican’s nostrils, and
the publican snored and snored
. . . I’ll bring you back a
gumleaf!”


impeccable; everywhere natural;
eveiywhere convincing; everywhere,
except in the fragments of impossible
verse, lucid. It is a work that in no way
calls for modernising.
Other recent Every mans include:
Fielding’s Joseph Andrews, Dostoev-
sky’s The Brothers Karamazov and
(in a more readable type than the
crowded Penguin edition) The
Peloponnesian War of Thucydides.
Plays and Musicomedies
Frances Donaldson seems to have
prepared herself with three books on
farming, she and her husband being
farmers, for a biography of her father,
Freddy Lonsdale, who wrote “The Last
of Mrs. Cheyney,” “Aren’t We All?”
“Spring Cleaning,” “Canaries Some-
times Sing,” to say nothing of the plot
and dialogue for “The Maid of the
Mountains,” etc., and a very down-to-
earth job she has made of it; very dis-.
ceming, for a daughter.
Freddy was the third son of an Isle
of Jersey tobacconist. He early con-
tracted the habit of not reading or
studying, which later developed into
not going to any plays other than his
own, and not often to them. He was a
reluctant clerk in a travel-agency ; he
went to Canada as steward on a liner
and paid for his return-trip by organis-
ing a football-match and decamping
with the proceeds. He worked on the
docks in England, and then in Jersey
fell for the daughter of an Army officer
who was affianced to a young gent, in
Scotland.
The girl having gone to Scotland to
settle details of her marriage, Freddy
followed her there, had her meet him at
the railway-station, and persuaded her
to tell her fiance it was all off. When,
evading her fiance’s mother, who had
confined her to her room pending the
arrival of her relatives, she came
running to him at the inn, where the
romantic spinster proprietresses barred
and padlocked her from him for the
night, they were unable to be married
in Scotland, so they sat up all night in
the train to Weymouth, and there were
married in August, 1904, the bride-
groom demonstrating once more his
powers of persuasion by having the
vicar pay for the special licence.
For four years the Lonsdales (they
were then the Leonards. Lonsdale
being the name under which he wrote
his plays and to which he changed by
deed-poll in 1908) lived in lodgings and
in poverty and sometimes on porridge
three times a day until between 1908
and 1910 two musical-comedies, “The
King of Cadonia” and “The Balkan
Princess,” and two plays, “The Early
Worm” and “The Best People” (later
rewritten as “Aren’t We All?”)
established him as a writer for the
stage. But these didn’t save him from
poverty ; that was done by a musical
play called “Teresa,” which he wrote
in 1924 and had turned-down by Frank
Curzon, the producer of his first plays.
By this time he had a wife, three
daughters, a house and servants to
provide for. An Australian, a Mr.
Conran, whose drinks Lonsdale had
sponsored at a seaside club, paid all
his debts and arranged to pay him £5
a week until he made good (really,
one must try to meet one of these
Australians !) ; and in 1917, “Teresa,”
better-known as “The Maid of the
Mountains,” had begun the first-run
of 1352 performances which made its
promoters £300,000: —
With “The Maid of the
Mountains” Freddy said good-bye
to the vagrancy of his youth. He
was never again to owe even the
smallest sums.
His best times came in the 1920’5,
with “Aren’t We All?” (1923), “Spring
Cleaning” (1925), “The Last of Mrs.
Cheyney” (1925), “On Approval”
(1927), and “Canaries Sometimes
Sing” (1929). The critics of “Aren’t We
All ?” were astonished that a writer
of play-books for musicals should be
also a straight playwright.
Lonsdale’s success as a playwright
brought a separation from his family.
The son of the Jersey tobacconist
became a member of the Garrick
Club and of the international set, for
whom no hotel was too good, living
between England and America, a
room always reserved for him at
Witherslack, the country place of the
Hon. Oliver Stanley, younger son of
the Earl of Derby, and somewhat the
same arrangements in homes on the
other side of the Atlantic. He was
capable of going back, on caprice, in
the same ship that took him to
America; and he managed to be
humored in his most impossible
demands on people’s patience because
of his charm and persuasiveness.
He was preserved from bankruptcy
by no more than the fact that he
always seemed to have enough money
to do anything he wanted to do—and,
says Mrs. Dopaldson, by his death
from an aneurism in a London street
in 1954; on the whole, she thinks
this saved him from being reduced to
the £l2OO-a-year which he had assured
himself and on which he would have
considered life insupportable.
Mrs. Donaldson sketches him very
well as she knew him, as she does also
such lifelong friends as Sir Gerald du
Maurier, who lost the production of
The Last of Mrs. Cheyney” because
he went to sleep while Lonsdale was
reading it to him ; but she is not much
able to demonstrate Freddy’s wit in the
fact, partly because, as she says, it was
the quiet wit of character and conver-
sation, but also maybe because she did
not see him in action at the Garrick
Club and those other places where he
shone.
Then again, although Mrs. Donald-
son makes very nice distinctions in her
evaluation of Lonsdale’s plays, she is
unable to see them against the back-
ground of the theatre of those years.
FOR PAT...
By Kenneth Mackenzie
The composition of Pat Long
—Gloiy be and my! oh my!—
is a fine bone and fire along it
—Glory my!
Over the bone the nervous mesh
—Glory my!— '
Springs out into the vivid flesh
—Glory be and my!
And on the lively flesh the skin
—Glory be and my! oh, my!—
lets the touch of fingers in
—Heavens above!
The fingers’ touch, the laugh, the look
—Glory gracious!—
lay her page open like a book
; —Glory be!
And all the nerve, and all the bone
—Heaven bless us! —
are yet not Pat Long alone
—Glory!
For she is sweetly sour and fresh
—God forgive us! —
as fruit that makes the dew more
precious
-—Gracious!
And all along the hollow bone
—Bless my soul! —
Patricia lives her life alone
—Glory be and my! oh my!
Also, within the nervy net
—God defend us!—
She nurses up a wicked wit
—Christmas!
The wit defends the nerves; the nerves
—Glory be and my! Glory!—
defend the dream. The dream serves
—Forgive me, Lord!—
as god and honesty and love
—Heavens! Heavens!—
which all her composition proves
—Glory be!


LAWSON RARIORA
I have a fine copy, loose front wrapper, of LAWSON’S FIRST RUBRICATION
“Short Stories in Prose and Verse ”
published by L. LAWSON, 432 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. 1894.
WHAT OFFERS? BOX 1173, G.RO., BRISBANE.
Coward is mentioned only twice, once
as a playwright who has not had so
much uninterrupted success as Lons-
dale, once for being more patriotic
than Lonsdale ; yet Coward may well
be seen, in “Private Lives,” by luck or
good management to have trapped
that social significance which preserves
the ephemeral for history, and which is
not easily to be found in any of the
Lonsdale plays.
Westralian Novel
After The Mirage, where he dealt
darkly and starkly with dark and stark
doings among the aborigines, F. B.
Vickers’s First Place to the Stranger
(Constable) is rather a mild little novel;
yet honest and genial enough.
Mr. Vickers obviously believes that
the novel should have some socio-
logical purpose, but at the same time he
does not allow his sociology to
degenerate into propaganda; so that,
if you get a novel with a message, you
still get a novel. In “The Mirage” it
was the appalling conditions in most
of our aboriginal encampments. Here
it is wise words to migrants:—■
I would have liked to have said:
“Look. Forget it. The Govern-
ment has brought you out here, and
that's about the last you’ll hear of
them. The Government doesn’t exist
for you or me. It’s just as far away
from you as was the Government in
Westminster from Wigan, or Putney,
or wherever you come from....
You’ve got to live with the people
.... It's you and the people and
their ways. It’s you and the climate
and a million things that neither you
nor me understand... .It’s you that’s
got to do the settling-in. It’s you
that’s got to make the adjustments.
It’s you that’s got to change.”
His story, then, is of migrants from
Britain readjusting themselves to Aus-
tralian life: first, how Owen Jukes, his
narrator, adjusted himself by going
shearing and going on strike, falling
in love with a married woman, knock-
ing about on farms and in factories in
Westralia until at last he was able to
buy the little farm, “with white fowls
running about on it,” for which he had
always hankered; and next how Owen’s
rigidly English parents—the father is
a fitter from the Black Country—
adjusted themselves (with some
comedy, some pathos and very great
difficulty) when he brought them out
to join him. The old man doesn’t like
Australian beer and doesn’t like the
slovenly craftsmanship of Australian
workmen. The old lady doesn’t like
anything.
Part of the reason for the generalfy
mild and minor effect of the novel is
that there runs through it an uncon-
vincing—or at least very remote and
English—love-affair between Owen
Jukes and Doris Hart, the girl he left
behind him in the Black Country.
Another factor is that the prose lacks
descriptive quality: this is a very bare,
harsh Westralia compared with the
West of Katharine Susannah Prichard’s
early novels. Perhaps Mr. Vickers
thought the lack of charm, the
emphasis on rawness and ugliness,
appropriate to the migrant’s viewpoint;
but even the earliest newcomers often
enough responded to the attractions of
the landscape, and it is more likely
that the novelist was simply too busy
faithfully recording his hero’s ups and
downs from job to job to pause and
look at the background.
But there are passages, particularly
on the shearing expeditions, when the
writing does take on warmth and color;
the love-story serves to make a con-
tinuing thread of interest; and many
of the characters, particularly the
mother and father, are convincingly
and amusingly observed. It is all
natural, lifelike, readable; and, from
the sociological viewpoint, well worth
saying.
Reviewed Briefly
The SS; Alibi of a Nation, 1922-
1945: Gerald Reitlinger (Heinemann).
Another book about the Nazis; who
always make nasty but no doubt neces-
sary reading. It is claimed to be the
first full history of the SS and submits
the obviously sensible theory that the
Nazis and the nation cannot be
absolved from responsibility for the
crimes of their hirelings. A large,
packed book.
* * # m
Ben Franklin: Nelson Beecher Keyes
(World’s Work). Subtitled “an affec-
tionate portrait,” this biography has
not much beyond its affection, and
some stress on Franklin’s association
with the Quakers, to distinguish it
from the mass of writings on Franklin
already in existence ... the most
appealing of which, in any case, are
Franklin’s own letters and auto-
biographies. Plain and straight-
forward, it is, however, a satisfactory
account of a life of extraordinary
richness.
* * * *
Gold Is Where You Hide It: W.
Stanley Moss (Andre Deutsch). On the
collapse of Germany the Reichsbank
buried some millions of pounds’-worth
of gold, precious stones, dollars and
pound-notes in Bavaria. The U.S.
Army dug it up. What happened to it
thereafter, says Mr. Moss, is a mystery,
which he attempts to solve. Some of
it, he believes, strayed to South
America; still more to the U.S. itself,
in the hands, or suitcases, of an indi-
vidual who had no right to it. With
several murders and allegations of the
blackmailing of cocaine-addicts, it is
a very pretty story for readers who
enjoy spy-hunts and treasure-hunts;
and at least it cannot be said that
these stones, wherever they may be,
gathered no Moss.
* * * *
Pleasure Garden: Brian Hill (Rupert
Hart-Davis). A charming and
humorous little anthology of bits of
prose and verse from all sorts of odd
sources. For example, T. Cutwode
reproving a bumblebee in 1599, Dean
Swift paying an outrageous compliment
to ladies at a tea-party, Tennyson’s
grandfather being mildly surprised at
a ghost, and the small boy’s poem
about Mr. Leach quoted by James
Agate in 1938:
I went on the beach
And I saw Mr. Leach
He had a sun cap on his head
I sed do you like the beach Mr Leach
It’s; better than nothing he sed.
* * * *
Goodbye to Uncle Tom: J. C.
Furnas (Seeker and Warburg). A pro-
vocative and widely-read book in
America, this will be read more soberly
in Australia, but nonetheless bears
upon our own history at two points—
the aborigines and the convicts. The
condition of the slave, says Mr.
Furnas, was very like that of the con-
vict. He thinks that the whole U.S.
concept of the negro may have been
distorted by Harriet Beecher Stowe’s
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” and sets out to
find what slavery was really like and
what were and are the real qualities
of “the African race.” Mrs. Stowe,
he says, “never created a sound negro
character,” therefore the whole prob-
lem has been viewed unrealistically.
His conclusion is, “Any conceivable
‘racial inferiority’ is nevertheless too
slight to justify the caste system
The only practicality and the only
decency is to let the American negro
find his own level according to the
luck and genes chance gave him, with-
out caste-pressures to keep him
underdeveloped or overstrained.”


Tlte PUMP
with ALL the ANSWERS
© Slurries
® Chemicals
® Sands
© Corrosives
® Solids
• Compounds
■ -
The MARS pump will handle the lot
Easily - Efficiently Economically
Pump
Check these main features
• 4 Heavy duty Roller Bearings.
• 4 Position delivery.
• Alternative arrangements for shaft
sealing. •,
® Meehanite alloy main castings.
° 5 point clamp of bowl and liners.
® Wearing parts of special metals
for special liquids.
• 2 - 3 - 4 - 8 vane impellers.
® Replaceable rubber or alloy steel
Liners.
® Sizes 2 in. to 8 in. delivery.
MAXIMUM EFFICIENCY is your answer to High operating Costs.
The MARS PUMP supplies that answer.
LONG LIFE and LOW COST of all wearing parts is your answer to High maintenance costs.
The MARS PUMP supplies that answer
GUARANTEED INTERCHANGEABILITY and IMMEDIATE DELIVERY of spares Is
your answer to High “down time costs”.
The MARS PUMP supplies that answer*
If you are pumping anything but pure water you can’t afford to go past MARS PUMPS
Machine Tool
Manufacturing
CO. PTY. LTD.
St., Valley, Brisbane,
Write for details NOW
Name :.
...
Address—_—..........
