

If
lIS
I ■ •
v
I
Send a grift of wine to your friends,
relatives or business associates in Britain, for
birthdays, weddings, anniversaries and all celebra-
tions. From stocks iii their London cellars, the House of
Seppelt can arrange immediate deliveries of their products
to any address in the United Kingdom. Your nearest office of
Seppelt & Sons)Ltd. wiii supply details of this service.
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. BEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H. G.P.O
SYDNEY: Box 163. G.P.O.
MELBOURNE: Box 233 E, G.P.O.
BRISBANE: Box 352 E, G.P.O.
FREMANTLE: Box 64. G.P.O.
CRYSTAL ST.. BROKEN HILL
88 CANNON ST., LONDON. E.C.4
The Bulletin
No Stranger Voyage l—page n
Wednesday, October 30, 1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
TREASURY OF “THE ADAM STYLE”—
MELLERSTAIN HOUSE
IWIELLERSTAfN HOUSE, the home of the
■‘■’'A Earl of Haddington, is situated six miles
from Kelso, and thirty-seven miles south of
Edinburgh, from which it can be approached
over the rolling Lammermuir Hills. This beauti-
ful countryside, which Sir Walter Scott described
in many of his Waverley novels, is full of interest
to all lovers of Scotland; and, of all the places
to be seen there, none is more rewarding to the
visitor than the great mansion of Mellerstain.
Mellerstain dates from 1725, when it was built
by the Baillie family on the site of an earlier
building. The present mansion is renowned for
the beauty of its interior decoration, which was
the creation of the fatuous eighteenth-century
architect, Robert Adam. “The Adam Style” is
a synonym for grace and elegance, and at
Mellerstain the supreme concentration of his
genius has been preserved in all its original
beauty. The mansion is still the home of the
descendants of the original owner for whom
Adam created his designs nearly two centuries ago.
One of the finest rooms at Mellerstain is the
Library, which is regarded as the epitome of the
style associated with Robert Adam. The design
of the ceiling dates from 1778 and consists of
paintings which depict the figures of Minerva,
Teaching and Learning. The green and white
mantelpiece, the bookcases and the friezes are all
the work of this great Scottish architect.
As visitors pass from room to room they find
themselves looking instinctively upwards in order
to see what new refinements the imagination of-
Adam embellished the ceilings. Another of his
finest conceptions is the Dining-room ceiling,
which consists of a series of intricate patterns
resembling a delicate piece of Wedgwood
porcelain.
No. 373: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0.., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find It for you—fiction
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
"THE DOLL" IN PRINT
To one of the few in Australia who
lias the advantage of being able to
assess it without having seen it staged,
Summer of the Seventeenth Doll, by
Ray Lawler (Angus and Robertson),
is as powerful a play in print as people
found it in the theatre.
It will probably be seen by the
future as an Australian development
of the American low-life masterpieces
such as “Death of a Salesman” and
“A Streetcar Named Desire”; but it
lacks the moralistic despair of “Sales-
man” and the depravity of “Streetcar”;
and although its allover theme is the
break-up of a group whom only the
energy of youth had held together, it
is a peculiarly Australian break-up: a
group of people drift together, they
have a wild and wonderful time—they
must have it again next year, and next
year—or next week and next week . . .
and then someone quarrels and leaves,
or dies, or goes on some other
routine; or time overtakes their ability
to sustain the roles habit has forced
upon them.
If that in itself is not peculiarly
Australian, then it must be one’s own
observation added to Lawler’s brilliant
Australian characterisations that makes
it seem so: who has not met the brutal
and talkative Barney carrying all
before him, or the independent first-
or-nowhere ganger Roo, or wondered
at the curious honesty of women like
Olive and Pearl, who make their own
terms with morality and so retain
enough spirit for the tragic showdown
at the end of the play, when Olive
refuses to marry Roo, to compromise
with an eagle whose wings are clipped?
Or would she? Is this a case where
by avoiding a happy ending (i.e., a
respectable, married ending) the author
achieves romanticism and not realism?
Well, suppose they had married, then
the two men could not have walked
together out of the women’s lives in
the further old Australian tradition of
mateship. It is this dilemma, no doubt,
that explains the doubts some critics
had about the play’s ending. Maybe
if Lawler had been older he would
have had a different appreciation of
the reaction of a woman approaching
middle-age to marriage with a man of
whom she was more than fond, even if
he was reduced to working in a paint-
factory. Still, even if it isn’t quite
convincing, it sustains the tragic
trajectory of the play.
It is to be hoped that the Americans
who film it will study its locale care-
fully; from beginning to end it is
Australian, as, for vinstance, the first
sentence of the setting:—
Charming and fast - vanishing
relics of Victorian architecture
in Australia are the double-storied
brick cottages with elaborately
patterned ironwork decorating their
verandas . . ,
And even the stage-directions are
uncompromisingly Australian: —
She lays against him for a
moment . . .
You could hardly be more thorough
than that.
R. McC.
Poems From New Zealand
In the first stanza of the first poem
in The Estate (Caxton Press) Charles
Brasch strikes, or rather touches, the
note that he sustains with rare con-
sistence throughout the book: a
natural, intimate, unforced identi-
fication with the New Zealand earth ;
a precision of language learned in
part from Yeats and Eliot but
enriched with his own distinctive
imagery and cadences; sensitivity of
feeling, clarity of thought; above all,
a note of tranquillity, of quietness:—
Ngaio and broadleaf people the
grassy coast
Of green hills bent to the water
That stirs, hardly stirs in the wide
arms of the bay,
Fingering the rocks lightly, for a
season of calm
Laid asleep in its iron bed
Under the circling air, the dome of
light.
The first poem is pure landscape.
In the next, the earth is enlivened
with rabbits:—
Under the bald, pocked gullies they
tunnel in darkness;
Nettle and matagauri
And the hooded figures of rock
offer them refuge
From man’s if not from hawk’s eye,
As though the land they devoured
would quietly shield them
Who first made it their own.
And in the next—though there is in
fact an excellent rabbiter with the
rabbits—humanity makes its appear-
ance “In Memory of Willi Fels,”
Shaping in a garden for fifty seasons
The strong slow lives of plants,
the rare and homely,
Into an order sought by the
imagination
A precinct green and calm
Where climates, continents, civilisa-
tions mingled
And for a leaf-framed listening
Apollo
The bellbird lingered over its flaw-
less phrases . a '„
And so, through the poems on war,
children, family tradition, religion,
native fuchsias (“an ancient taciturn
breed, squat and sunless”), to the
sequence at the end exploring human
relationships, the reader meets every-
where this one kind of poetry: where
“climates, continents, civilisations”
mingle in a quiet and leaf-framed New
Zealand setting.
It is an admirable kind of verse for
a New Zealand poet to write: the poet,
alert and mature, at home on his
native soil: and if it rarely has the
intensity of feeling that crystallises
into more striking poetry, its quiet
sensitivity is singularly attractive.
In another book from the Caxton
Press, W. H. Oliver’s Fire without
Phoenix, the writer has not come
through to so decisive a statement.
A few poems with an English setting
are firm enough in time and place ;
particularly “From a Train in the Mid-
lands” where the earth is
.... murdered, buried, forgotten
But around the heaps of slack
Children flower like fennel
And threaten to bring her back.
But the others, presumably written in
New Zealand,, are essentially located
in the general climate of contemporary
poetry rather than in one man’s mind
and country. The chief technical
influence, often used with pleasant
effect, is of Dylan Thomas (“The girl
gone to grief with a chorus of shells”);
the themes explore disaster.
However, this, too, is accomplished
verse ; and in “Ceremony of Pain,”
along with an image doubtless from
the New Zealand seas:—
Bring only solitude, and stand in
silence
Hands like a veined rock in a sea
of silence,
Wait for the raking wave, for storms
to write
In streaming white a word that will
repay
The temporal sacrifice you offer
here . . .
there is a force hardly to be found in
Brasch’s more measured achievement.
The Magazines
“Meanjin” (No. 3, 1957) prints an
extract from Patrick White’s new novel
Voss, which has already been published
in America and is due soon in
Australia. It deals with a Leichhardt-
like explorer.
“Quadrant” (No. 4, 1957) has a
mellow and very moving short-story
by Brian James; a devastating exposure
of Communist tyranny in Hungary by
a lawyer who was sent to a concentra-
tion-camp after defending, on a com-
mission from the Hungarian bar-
council, some youths charged with
{Continued on page 58)


o J*
1 ..
in
g!
ISi
(i
se
/ ?\:
Its
.#
ScAffli
,'v
cx
ft
v:s
ME
ADELAIDE
MELBOURNE
*vc
if- :
*1
i-
H
T
K
E
P
\n:
S'*- i
Y
E
N
0
SY
N
D
0
N
*
G
E
elong
BjJU
Ak
<v
'<v
r
<*' v
4>V;
7 -?
m
n
7_:,^
■ YV-L'i'W r
&
f/vc*
' !W ..
» L I W■>
cvr J
All Over Australia ...
North, South, East, West, throughout this fair land of ours, Elders have developed, giving to the “Man-
on-the-Land” the facilities of the Elder Organisation. The name Elders was known to our pioneer families
as far back as 1839, and brought to them the essentials of a growing nation. To-day the activities of 170
Elder branches in Australia cover Wool, Land and Livestock, Merchandise, Insurance, Skins and Hides,
Rural Banking, Shipping, Travel and Chartering.
"SERVICE TO THE MAN-ON-THE-LAND"
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED
ADELAIDE, PERTH, ALBANY, MELBOURNE, GEELONG, SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE, LONDON
with which are amalgamated
THE COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE CO. LTD., SYDNEY
NENCO LIMITED, NEWCASTLE
MOREHEADS LIMITED, BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Wednesday , October 30, 1957
Vol. 78 — No. 4055
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
OLD, BUT IT SEEMS NEW
MOST of the electricity generated in
Australia is produced by authorities
under the direct control of the State
Governments.
This was not always so. For a long
time most of the powerhouses were
built and operated by private corpora-
tions, with Government interest limited
to enacting and policing safety-
regulations and, as in the case of
gas-companies, to exercising control
over charges and profits. Between the
two World Wars there was an increas-
ing tendency for Governments to take
over electricity undertakings. This was
a natural procedure for Labor Gov-
ernments, but Liberal Governments also
followed the trend. It was the Lawson
Liberal Government that founded the
Victorian State Electricity Commission,
and it was Liberal Premier Playford
who transformed the Adelaide Electric
Supply Company into the South Aus-
tralian Electricity Trust. In N.S.W.
the Electricity Commission now
controls most of the State’s power-
stations, and the few remaining private
corporations are in process of being
absorbed. This tendency has been so
general in Australia that most people
have come to regard it as natural and
inevitable. The new power-plants now
in course of erection in the various
States are all Government-planned and
are being paid for out of loan-funds.
For this reason the suggestion by
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Morton that
it would be a reasonable and paying
proposition to permit private enterprise
to build and operate new power-
stations had almost the ring of novelty
about it. Parliament and people have
become so accustomed to thinking of
the present system of financing such
ventures as being the normal one that
they have almost ceased to consider
whether there may be alternative ways
of getting the job done.
Mr. Morton prefaced his proposal
by reminding Parliament that for many
years the amount of loan-money avail-
able for Government works had been
inadequate for the demands that were
being made upon it, and he urged that
in such circumstances it was all the
more imperative that “not a single
pound should be spent by the State
doing work that can be financed from
other sources without cost to the State.”
That seems to be a principle with
which, if it could be divorced from
party-politics, most people would
agree. Unfortunately, however, the
Cahill Government is so committed to
State enterprise and the A.L.P. in
general is so far committed to its
socialisation objective (whether in the
1921 or whole-hog form, the Blackburn
or watered-down form, or the 1957 or
democratic form doesn’t make much
difference), that its supporters would
be mobilised at once to oppose any
suggestion of a change.
Applying his yardstick, the Opposi-
tion-leader maintained that power-
generation was one such activity which
could be financed from other sources.
In the current loan-estimates £lO
million, or 17 per cent, of the total
loan-programme, has been set aside for
“the purely commercial function of
electricity-generation.” Since 1951 £9O
million has been used for this purpose.
Expansion of the State’s power-
resources has been a vital necessity,
and it is not for a moment suggested
that the money has been wasted,
though it may well be questioned
whether full value has been obtained
for it. The point Morton makes is not
that the works were not needed, but
that they could have been built by
private enterprise, thus releasing £9O
million of loan funds for other
purposes, such as the provision of extra
schools and hospitals.
This raises two questions. Firstly,
whether it is nowadays a practical
proposition for private enterprise -to
conduct electricity undertakings;
secondly, whether capital is available
for this sort of investment. Morton
answered the first question effectively
by reminding .the House that
In the United States of America,
which generates half the world’s elec-
tricity, free-enterprise power-companies
are providing 75.5 per cent, of the
nation’s total power and handling 78.8
per cent, of the nation’s electricity
customers. At least five individual
power-companies have a generating-
capacity two, three or four times larger
than the total capacity of all New South
Wales power-stations.
One of these companies—the Pacific
Gas and Electric Co., of San Francisco
—has an installed capacity of 4,520,000
kilowatts; the capacity of the N.S.W.
system is about 1,500,000 kilowatts.
The fact that the powerhouses of the
United States are in the hands of inde-
pendent corporations does not prevent
the interconnecting of systems. Many
companies with activities covering large
areas have linked-up their distribution-
system so that they can supply
electricity from integrated power-pools
and thus ensure the efficient utilisa-
tion of plant and capital. Several such
pools in the Middle West involve
generating capacities exceeding 30
million kilowatts 10 times the
installed capacity of all the power-
stations in Australia.
The answer to whether private
industry can supply the power-require-
ments of a nation is that in America
it does. Moreover, it supplies them
at an economical price—roughly about
one-third of the N. S. Wales price—
and it pays dividends to its stockholders
into the bargain.
Mr. Morton’s idea is that private
corporations should be given long-term
franchises to build power-stations and
to service certain areas. The advantages
claimed for such a scheme are that it
would be cheaper and more efficient
than the present system. A private
company building a power-station
would have every incentive to see that
it was finished as quickly as possible
—a half-finished power-plant doesn’t
earn any dividends. The same incen-
tive would be a spur to efficiency of
operation. An inefficient or costly
Government power-station can be
bolstered-up by increasing its charges
and making the public foot the bill.
Under private ownership slackness
would mean a decline in profits and
falling dividends, and shareholders,
unlike taxpayers, have a curious desire
to see the concern they have put their
money into show a profit. An advantage
which the Federal Treasurer, for one,
would appreciate is that private power-
producing concerns would be liable for
income-tax. The argument that the
system would make more loan-money
available for other purposes has
already been stated.
As to the question of where the
money is to come from—Mr. Morton
expressed the hope that it could be
raised locally. This does not seem
likely at the present time. B.H.P. and
other companies which might be
interested in tackling such jobs are in
the middle of expansion schemes which
will need all their resources for the
next few years. It should be possible,
however, to find enterprising com-
panies overseas willing to consider the
project. Both British and American
firms conduct undertakings of this sort
in other countries. Why not in Aus-
tralia? It is Mr. Cahill’s continual
whinge that he can’t get enough loan-
money for schools and hospitals. Mr.
Morton’s suggestion is one which he
can’t dismiss without an investigation.
This would seem an obvious assign-
ment for the office Mr. Cahill is about
to establish in New York.


THE UNWISE MEN OF THE EAST


PLAIN ENGLISH
The New Banking Set-up
After nearly eight years of office, the
Menzies-Fadden Government has got
round to making a clean separation of
trading-bank operations from the central-
banking functions of the Commonwealth
Bank.
In a way, its delay is a tribute to its
integrity, if not its energy. Too often
a Government, in delaying, burns its
bridges behind it. In this case the Federal
Government has been drawn back to its
1949 election promises rather than away
from them. And that is at least unusual.
Briefly, the Reserve Bank of Australia
will take over the central-banking func-
tions of the present Commonwealth
Bank. It will take with it the note-issue
department and the rural-credits depart-
ment. The Reserve Bank will be con-
trolled by the present bank board, with
Dr. H. C. Coombs as governor. The
Government will still have power to issue
a direction to the board in the event of
any disagreement between the board and
the Government on central-bank policy.
The Commonwealth Trading Bank,
the Commonwealth Savings Bank, and
the Commonwealth Development Bank
will pass to the control of the new Com-
monwealth Banking Corporation. The
board of the new corporation will consist
of 11 members, eight of them to be
recruited outside the institution and the
public service, and will determine the
policy of the three banks and control
their affairs. A separate general-manager
will be recommended for each of the
three banks.
The trading-bank will be liable for
income-tax ; the savings-bank will not be,
but it will have to conform with the rules
laid down for the conduct of privately
owned savings-banks.
The new development bank will take
over the present mortgage bank and the
industrial finance department of the
Commonwealth Bank ; it will be granted
additional resources, and its powers will
be enlarged both for borrowing and
lending.
Its function will be to provide finance
and to assist primary production or the
establishment or development of second-
ary industries. Its special aim will be to
provide finance in, cases where such aid
would not otherwise be readily obtain-
able.
Over and above the separation and
reconstruction of the various Common-
wealth Bank departments, a new Banking
Bill provides for an alteration in the
method of calling-up “special-account”
money.
Under the new system of statutory
reserve deposits, the Reserve Bank will
be able to require private banks to deposit
with it at short notice only 25 p.c. of their
Australian deposits. The percentage can
be raised only by the central bank giving
45 days’ notice.
The new bill also makes provision for
the private-bank savings-banks in the
general banking Structure.
What the Government has done —or
aims to do with the Senate’s approval—■
in Introducing this legislation has been
to limit the functions of the Reserve
Bank to those which are normally vested
in overseas reserve banks, at the same time
leaving in existence a vigorous Govern-
ment-owned trading-bank and savings-
bank in competition with shareholder-
owned trading-banks and savings-banks.
The Reserve Bank of Australia will
take over the note-issue, the rural-credits
department, and will control the admini-
stration of the statutory reserve-deposits,
exchange-control, buying and selling of
gold, protection of depositors in other
banks, and the determination of advances
policy to be followed by trading-banks
and savings-banks. It will regulate bank-
interest rates, subject to Treasury
approval.
No doubt administration of the new
banking legislation, if approved by the
Senate, will continue to be subject to
intermittent criticism. A reserve bank is
a disciplinary bank, and few people really
like discipline or interference in the con-
duct of their affairs. But the major fear
all along has been that the powers of the
Australian reserve bank could, in politic-
ally biased hands, be used to further the
interests of the Commonwealth Trading
Bank at the expense of Australia’s old-
established trading-banks—perhaps to put
the privately owned banks out of
business.
Possibly no legislation could prevent a
really determined Government from trying
to damage or extinguish the privately
owned trading-banks. But public feeling
on the matter will be given a greater
chance of prevailing under the proposed
new set-up. The separation of funds,
functions and management of the old
Commonwealth Bank departments will
make it much more difficult for any
Treasurer to make a massed assault on
the present trading-bank system.
The new banking legislation repre-
sents a complex operation involving much
reorganisation and change, and the
Federal Government is to be congratu-
lated on facing a problem that had resisted
reform for many years, and which
threatened to grow more obdurate as
the years went on.
Partners in Research
There seems to be little doubt that one
of the most important achievements of the
Russian earth-satellite Sputnik is one that
was certainly not intended by its
originators—the linking-together, after 12
years, of British and American scientific
and nuclear research. The agreement
reached by President Eisenhower and Mr.
Macmillan on Friday was, in essentials,
one which Britain has been seeking for
years; it demonstrates that the United
States has realised at last the unwisdom
of trying to “go it alone” in the
scientific field.
The President’s speech at the Queen’s
banquet a week earlier had foreshadowed
this change of attitude. When he spoke
of the combined scientific brains of the
free world and the necessity for Western
scientists to work together he was voicing
sentiments that have not been heard from
official sources in America for a decade.
The Washington attitude has long seemed
to be that anything American scientific
brains couldn’t work-out wasn’t worth
worrying about, since no one else would
be able to work it out, either ; secondly,
that no one else should be trusted with
American secrets for fear of their leaking
through to Russia.
The Russian H-bomb, the British H-
bomb and now Sputnik have shaken this
belief to its foundations, forcing U.S.
officialdom and the American public alike
to the astonishing thought that there may
after all be some inventive genius and
technical skill outside America.
The decision once made, no time has
been wasted. On Saturday it was
announced that two joint study-groups
had been set-up—one, headed by
the chairman of the U.S. Atomic
Energy Commission and the chair-
man of the British Atomic Energy
Authority, to make recommenda-
tions covering co-operation in nuclear-
research ; the .other, headed by the
permanent chiefs of the British and U.S.
Defence Departments, to perform a
similar duty in relation to guided-missiles
and rockets.
A joint declaration of purpose issued
by the two leaders stressed the inter-
dependence of the countries of the free
world and the necessity for working in
genuine partnership ; the necessity for “an
enlarged Atlantic effort in scientific
research and development,” and the
President gave an undertaking to ask
Congress to amend the McMahon Act
which debars the sharing of atomic secrets
with other nations.
There may be some delay on the
legislative side of this deal, but the
essential thing is that agreement has
been reached in principle and has been
publicly declared.
Censorship
The revision of the list of banned books,
the supplying of the hitherto-secret list to
public libraries and the proposed appoint-
ment of a clerk (“appropriate university-
degree an advantage”) to supervise the
examination of imported books in the
Customs Department are a forthright
attempt by the Menzies Government to
do something sensible about censorship.
In theory, granting that Common-
wealth censorship is necessary at all —
which it probably is, because of the
muddle and abuses that would occur if
everything was left to the conflicting
policies of the States —the previous system
should have been satisfactory.
If, in the first instance, books were held
up “for review” by the anonymous clerks
of the department, there was a Censorship
Board to correct their judgment; over
the board, an Appeals Censor (Dr. L. H.
Allen), and over the Appeals Censor the
Minister. And, in a rough way, the
previous system did work: if The Catcher
in the Rye was lately foolishly banned, it
was instantly, after the rumpus, unbanned.
But, because of the initial handling by
the Customs, the system has worked too
haphazardly, with too many mistakes and


too many delays. Obviously the new
move is designed to remedy this: by
appointing a supervising clerk with some
knowledge of literature the Government
must hope that he will use more discre-
tion in the books he holds up “for
review” and that the whole procedure
will be expedited. There must always,
while we have this form of censorship,
be one man who will first set his eyes
with horror upon some naughty book —
or naughty invoice—and at least we now
have the hope that the man will be
educated.
There are still perils. A university-
degree, if that is insisted upon, does not
necessarily guarantee the sort of broad,
cultivated outlook that is required.
But over the “clerk” there will still be
the board and the Appeals Censor. The
move seems worth trying ; and it is
certainly made with the best and most
liberal intentions—the first time for many
years that a Government has tried in
censorship affairs to do something for
literature, instead of against it.
Menzies's Seven-point Plan
When Prime Minister Menzies last week
proposed a seven-point plan designed to
ease tension in the Middle East he was
accused by his political opponents of
having somersaulted since last year.
Such criticism ignores all that has
happened in the Middle East since
Menzies went to Cairo to see Nasser in
September, 1956. At that - stage the
immediate problem was Egypt’s seizure
of the Suez Canal, a course that had been
condemned by an overwhelming majority
of the user-nations. Nothing in its past
history suggested that the United Nations
could or would do anything to rectify
matters, and America had given no indi-
cations that it would oppose action by
Britain and France to protect what they
considered their legitimate interests in the
canal. Russia was known to be giving
Nasser moral and material backing, but
the value and extent of the aid was largely
a matter of conjecture.
Today the Power-vacuum left by the
forced withdrawal of British and French
forces has been filled by massive con-
centrations of Russian arms in Syria and
Egypt, a nebulous Eisenhower doctrine
and a phantom Sixth Fleet which spends
its time alternately putting to sea in a
hurry and paying goodwill visits to prove
it has nothing to do with old-fashioned
gunboat-diplomacy. Add to all this the
immediate “crisis” in which a Syria
chockful of Russian arms professes fear
of an imminent invasion by Turkey, and
Russia threatens Turkey with annihilation
if it should harm a single hair of a Syrian
tribesman’s head.
The Prime Minister’s seven points
are:
A final and guaranteed settlement of the
Arab-Israel borders.
A settlement of the refugee problem.
Economic aid, without military strings,
by genuinely international co-operation for
those Middle East nations which need it.
Encouragement of peaceful trade, good
for both seller and buyer.
Recognition and extension of civil and
economic aspects of the Baghdad Pact.
The great problem of oil supplies should
be looked at in terms of co-operation and
international guarantee, and not merely in
terms of international competition.
The creation of a new atmosphere of
peace and friendship in the Middle East
by the setting-up of an international
advisory body or commission to advise
Middle East countries on their financial
and economic problems and, where proper,
to make recommendations to the other
nations, particularly the great ones, for
constructive action and assistance.
For good or ill the United Nations
Assembly established the principle 12
months ago that peace in the Middle East
is the concern not only of those countries
traditionally interested in that troubled
region, but of the whole world. The
Menzies plan is a realistic acceptance of
that principle.
The Prime Minister said that despite
its own propaganda Russia claimed to
desire free and peaceful settlements. He
felt the time had come for the United
Nations to “test its own effectiveness and
the good faith of the Soviet Union.”
It will be interesting to see whether
the member-countries of the Assembly
are as unanimous in their desire to
restrain Russian imperialism in the Middle
East as they were in the case of Britain
and France.
The Melbourne Coup
Committeemen of the Victoria Racing
Club, who aren’t as elderly as in the days
of Carbine or as upstage, either —the hard
times of inflation would ensure that—
have picked their own winner in the
Melbourne Cup: £5OOO from the Carlton
and United Breweries for the television-
rights.
The best offer received from the three
Melbourne TV-stations was a combined
fee of £l5O for telecasts that would not
be sponsored.
The V.R.C. announced acceptance of
the C.U.B. offer in advertisements
countering the unfair newspaper-
campaign from the 1 V-stations’ associ-
ated publications that the V.R.C. was
keeping the Cup from those who could
not attend the course.
The Committee Has Much Pleasure, the
ads. blandly declared, in announcing that
arrangements had been made to permit
all Victorian television-stations to televise
the 1957 Melbourne Cup both when it
was being run and again during the
evening.
(The brewery company had under-
taken in its agreement with the V.R.C.
to pay the usual television-fees to the
transmitting companies.)
The V.R.C. ads. went on to explain,
reasonably enough, that the committee
had no means of gauging the effects tele-
vision might have on Cup Day attend-
ances and revenue, and that reasonable
compensation for the rights should be
made for an experimental year which
might not necessarily be a precedent.
And, with the suavity of a Cup Day
top-hat, the committee thereupon invited
all TV-stations to avail themselves of
“ Anyhow , that's the Way I see
Jayne Mansfield."
the Opportunity Now Provided to Make
Telecasts of the 1957 Cup.
It would Even Have Done For The
Duke.
Labor and the Banking
Change
[From Canberra]
With the long-awaited banking bills now
before Parliament, the Opposition is
mustering its entire strength in the Senate
for a battle to defeat the measures. But
it is most unlikely that Labor will be
able to command its full complement to
achieve its purpose. Several Labor Sena-
tors are ill and may be unable to attend
during the vital votes.
However, if they are present, and
receive the avowed support of the Demo-
cratic Labor Party and the sole represen-
tative of the Queensland Lal*or Party, the
bills could be rejected by the Senate.
This would mean that the Government
would have to wait another three months
before presenting them, thus opening the
way for a double-dissolution of the
Parliament if the bills were rejected a
second time. But a double-dissolution is
most unlikely with the elections barely
13 months away.
It is exactly 10 years since the Chifley
Government presented its legislation tc
nationalise banking in Australia. On
this memory the Government is placing
much reliance, as the Treasurer’s speech
was spiced with references to the fear
which gripped banks and their customers
during that period.
Treasurer Fadden is confident that the
bills will be passed in the current session,
even if it means sitting up to December
19 —the latest tip— to get them through.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
NEWS that the Woollahra Council pro-
poses to buy the Sir Samuel Hordern
two-story house-estate at Darling Point,
Sydney, and build flats with harbor-
views should bring a grin to the ghost
of J. F. Archibald. Archie lived
in the next house. One afternoon long
ago, sitting on his porch with me and
the poet David McKee Wright, the old
man, then in his declining years, apolo-
gised for not being able to show us the
harbor-view he used to have across the
lawns and flower-beds next door. A wall,
the maximum height allowed, blocked it
completely. The porch had been Archie’s
haunt; sitting there daily, watching the
coming and going of ships on the harbor,
meant life to him. But his past connec-
tion with The Bulletin was, he told
us, apparently too much for the flocks
and droves of celebrities who attended
the garden-parties next door, and who
probably hadn’t appreciated figuring in
its somewhat sharp social notes. He
was regarded, he said, as a newspaper-
spy gathering copy, and up went
the wall for privacy against the sus-
pected sleuth. He had got over his bitter-
ness about it, sitting hunched-up in his
favorite chair with his back to
the annoying wall .. . “Well, I must
take it as a tribute to The Bulletin,”
he said dryly that day, and forgot
it.—“Zatzeelightsky.”
❖ * *
“Tom”: This year’s N.S.W. Country
Week Drama Contest was won by the
Mudgee Players with a presentation of
“Johnny Belinda,” although two Sydney
newspaper-critics wrote disparagingly of
the prize-winners’ performance. Coming
gallantly to the support of the local talent
the Mudgee “Guardian” declared that
"This is th game t' keep y ’ young — marching-girls' instructor ."
everyone in the audience had thoroughly
enjoyed the performance, except “'a
couple of long-haired billygoats.”
£4 *l*
“H.W.”: Figures on cosmetics in New
Zealand quoted by Dame Hilda Ross,
Minister of Social Security, to 200 women
members of the National party at' Auck-
land : Last year, N.Z. women bought
1172 gallons eau de Cologne, lotions and
toilet waters; 3617 cwt. talcum-, toilet-
and foot-powders ; 775 cwt. face-creams ;
764 cwt. facial powders ; 92cwt. lipsticks,
19cwt. rouge and 163 cwt. nail-cosmetics.
“No woman need buy these unless she
looks a fright,” said Dame Hilda, who is
70, but looks 60.
♦> ❖
“Qwerty”: Friend from a South Aus.
town says his father has always been
“going to buy a car” and somehow never
quite got around to it, but now, on the
eve of his retirement, he’s at last bought
a snappy new English model. Mum could
hardly wait to break the good news:
after an excited description of the car
she ended her epistle: “Dad’s got the
licence. He’s only waiting for someone
to teach him to drive.”
❖ ❖
“J.T.”: At Sydney summons court,
asked by the police why his car had
suddenly veered to the wrong side of the
road, he replied: “I must have been
affected by the exhaust-fumes of the car
ahead of me.”
♦> »>
“Kate”: With the*" passing of Will
Lawson, Kathleen Dalziel told me, she
now holds second place as the oldest
Bulletin contributor —in contributions,
that is ; it’s over 57 years since her first
verse appeared ; Will Ogilvie being the
oldest contributor. “Surely,” said James
Hackston, “1 must follow after Kath-
leen.” But “Sydneysider” in Personal
Items (B. 16/10/’57) said Alec Chisholm
has just celebrated 50 years as a con-
tributor. That beats Hackston.
♦> «j«
“Imperial 55”: American telephone-
companies are going all-out to give custo-
mers variety—a tiny bedroom-set, the
smallest practical unit yet made ; a hand-
set with a dial on the speaker-end ; a
desk-drawer installation which has holes
to fit the speaker ear-piece and sprung
cord which unwinds or winds up as
required ; and a unit which has a speaker
like a microphone and can be used no-
hands. Engineers also envisage the day
when very high frequencies will be com-
monplace ; the Smiths will be able to stay
home on Sunday afternoons and visit the
Jones family by video—at reduced week-
end rates ! Telephones are colored ivory,
moss-green, cherry-red, pastel-yellow,
mahogany-brown, light grey, light beige,
aqua-blue, rose-pink and white.
LAST YEAR
“Sydney City Council finance-committee
recommended that the council buy a delicensed
Paddington hotel and an adjoining house tor
use as an amenities-centre for aged persons.
Oh, the old man went to the Paddington
pub,
But he should have been there last
year ;
He asked for a bed and he asked for
grub,
But the place had become an amenities
club;
He should have been there last year,
They said;
He might have been lucky last year.
So he called for a beer and he muttered
a bet,
But he should have been there last
year ;
There wasn’t a bookie to see he was set,
And Coke without rum was the best he
could get—
He should have been there last year,
They said ;
It was different, there, last year.
So the old man died, and he went below,
But he should have been there last
year ;
For smoking’s a risk they no longer allow,
And they’re all Alcoholics Anonymous
now —
You should have been here last year,
They said;
It wasn’t so hellish last year.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


-r\OCTORS’ bills (B. 2/10/’57)? When
my father was advised to have an
operation on his eyes etiquette ruled that
the patient should leave the money in
gold on the parlor-table as he walked
through into the surgery. Having obtained
the necessary 30 pieces of gold, my
father walked through into the London
practitioner’s den to be told that he must
in future live in a tropical climate and
stick to outdoor work; also that the
operation would be more successful
without an anaesthetic. My father said,
“No anaesthetic!” Afterwards, as the
starched-and-ironed nurse took the
trembling patient downstairs to give him
a stiff brandy-and-soda the great man,
whose name was known all round the
world, ran down the stairs after them
and put the gold into my father’s hand.
“Here, young man,” he said gruffly,
“you’ll need this money where you’re
going far more than L will here.” The
advice was good and the operation a
success. On the day that he died, after
30 years of battling in and for North
Queensland, my father read the full
account of the Allied landings in North
Africa in the daily papers without glasses
of any kind and in a normal light.—
“C.F.”
❖ *>
“Burr Imul”: The name “Sputnik,”
commonly ascribed by the popular press
to the Russian artificial moon, is not a
proper name at all. “Sputnik” is the
Russian word for “satellite.” Another
meaning of the word is “fellow-traveller,”
which probably indicates that some
pretty dreadful jokes are being cracked
these days by the Muscovite on his way
to work.
♦♦♦ ♦s» ♦♦♦
“Gelt”: The days are passing of the
cheque written on specially prepared
banknote paper and signed with inde-
cipherable signatures. I have received a
dividend-cheque from a modern corpora-
tion which exemplifies automation even
in this most conservative line of business.
It was interleaved with copious high-
pressure sales-pamphlets—l was about to
consign the lot to the w.p.b. when I saw an
embossed 3d. duty-stamp on a thin piece
of pasteboard and realised the pasteboard
had a monetary value, despite its rubber-
stamp signature and the perforations in
various portions, reminiscent of pianola-
records. It cautioned me against “pin-
ning, folding or perforating” itself. What
a difference to the Bulletin’ cheque, with
its cartoon and human touch!
❖ »> *j*
“C.H.R.”: As to centenarian pen-
sioners (B. 9/JO/’57), early this century
an English life-assurance office found an
“You’re Wasting your time here. There’s nothing more We can teach you.”
annuitant 120 years old. Their Irish
manager investigated, and found the
annuitant had died 30 years before, but
his son, same name, had kept on drawing
the amount every half-year: “My father
left it to me.” Both signed with a mark.
*t+ *t* <♦
“Wusslean”: A Melbourne firm of
opticians has disclosed that many of the
latest type of spectacles, with heavy,
straight-edged rims, are sold to young
men who have no optical deficiencies, but
hanker after the modern business-
executive touch. The specs., of course,
have plain, clear glass. Young women
are buying them too, notwithstanding
Dorothy Parker’s dictum “Boys don’t
make passes At girls who wear glasses”;
from which one must conclude either that
Miss Parker was wrong or that things
have changed since her hey-heyday.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Doynest”: At the mothers’-club meet-
ing at our school, the president said:
“Last week I represented the club at the
association conference. I’m entitled to be
reimbursed for luncheon and fares —eight-
and-six altogether. Actually, I had a lift
by car —but it’s in the rules, isn’t it?”
She smiled in a sweet but determined
fashion at the assembly ; a crony piped-
up, “I move Mrs. be reimbursed” —
and in a stunned silence the motion went
through.
“0.W.W.”: So many espresso coffee-
bars have lately opened in Wellington
(N.Z.) that residents are wondering what
will be left—even a popular bookshop in
Willis Street has been transformed.
Coffee-bar “crawls” are becoming popular
with many night-owls; and I have
observed some coffee-crawlers carry a
small flask of rum to add to their cups.
Most bars are dimly lit and cosy and
warm in winter, but if may be a different
story in summer. Meantime, tea-
dispensers must be feeling the pinch.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bo”: As a champion loser of
umbrellas in public vehicles —I now buy
replacements in railway lost-
property auctions "and no doubt
repurchase some of my own —I issue a
challenge to manufacturers to turn out
an unlosable article. The rigid-style
brolly militates against attempts to
conceal it, as I found when I strapped one
to my leg before pulling on my strides
and then tried to sit down in a railway-
carriage. Why not a flexible-rubber
gamp which will bend with the action
of the leg? And a hollow handle which
would hold a modicum of hot rum would
prove invaluable for those who get
soaked when their gamps blow inside-out
in a cyclone. I pass these ideas on to
the makers gratis, my only guerdon a
hope that my rubber-co. shares will
receive a boost.
& *> 4
“Dorian”: I wanted to get to the
Liberty Theatre, in Sydney’s Pitt Street,
where the trams have been lately
pensioned-off in favor of buses. I got to
the bus-stop a few minutes before 5 p.m.,
handed two-sections’-worth to the
patrolling conductor and waited. Presently
NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS
The Bulletin Subscriptions
Department is being completely
reorganised to cope with increasing
subscriptions. This involves the
making of new-type stencils for
more legible printing of sub-
scribers’ names and addresses.
The changeover takes place this
week and should not interrupt the
regular dispatch of your Bulletin.
However, should the issue of
November 6 not arrive next week
please notify us immediately.
Also, please advise us if there is
any error in the new name-and-
address stencil. Your co-operation
will enable us to introduce a more
efficient service.


a bus lumbered up, with people jam-
packed like squares of butterscotch.
Clutching my ticket, I got on . . .
Horrors 1 When I made to get off I was
made to stay in ; the gravel-voiced con-
ductress snarled, Can t y read th sign?
I gathered there was a sign on the outside
of the bus telhng people it didn t stop
before a certain street. Thus, foiled by
a mere strip of cardboard, I had a
pleasant ride through King’ s» Cross, down
through Double Bay, up the other side,
finally out to a distant suburb before
the juggernaut stopped for the first time.
"There you are, my dear—no more drips on the carpet and a ready
supply of rainwater for the lounge .”
But I consoled myself somewhat with the
thought that I got all that for ninepence.
“P.0.M.C.”: Science fails to produce
bread that keeps fresh for a day or two
(B. 16/10/’57) because science extracts
.(for other profitable purposes) some of
those ingredients from flour the loss of
which hastens staleness when baked as
bread.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Tabba”: Hire-purchase firms can’t be
far behind Government departments
when it comes to circumlocution. Having
stated that I wished to close the account
in January, 1958, I asked for a pay-out
figure. The reply regretted that a pay-out
figure cannot be given ; however, if I
advise tlie firm when I am in a position
to fj na ii se the contract they will be only
, happy to ad vise me of a pay-out
, ***
e ' ~4
“Sevenelms”: “Doric’s” comment (B.
16/10/’57) upon the Tasmanian survival
of “havenues of hoaks” strengthens a
belief that the Speck preserves accents
which on the mainland wither away. In
Hobart we used a taxidriver whose Bow
Bells accent and phrases entertained us
constantly—but he was Tassie-born. A
barman at Ulverstone was in speech a
dead ringer for Sam Costar, but to my
question he replied “No sir, I’m second-
generation Orsetrylian ’nd prahd uv it.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“O’Aitch”: I watched him push his
way through the five-thirty throng in the
city-hotel bar; a big young bloke in
dungarees and wearing clay-stained hob-
nails, he had obviously just finished road-
mending or trench-digging . . , And then
I noticed the anachronistic hitchings
below the knees of his rammies ; yes —
bowyangs! And protruding from the
big bloke’s hip-pocket was one of those
ancient glass-marble-stoppered cordial
bottles so beloved in our bare-foot days.
If his bowies hadn’t been made of plastic,
with chromed spring-clips, I’d have sworn
he’d been doing a “Rip Van Winkle”
since 1927.
❖ »> *!♦
“Angus Bob”: Apparently you must
not name a racehorse after a living per-
son, using the person’s full name, but it
has been done. There is a touch of
gentle irony in John Buchan’s dedication
of his book, Homilies and Recreations, a
collection of some of his more serious
speeches and writings, published in 1926.
The Viscount Astor of that time had
named a racehorse John Buchan:
My Dear Waldorf, you once did me the
honor of naming a racehorse after me, the
fame of whom has gone abroad in the earth.
■*fylay I, as an inadequate return, and in
token of a long friendship, inscribe your
name on this book?
“THEY ALSO SERVE..."
“One doesn’t always need to go to a prac-
titioner with a fancy-sounding title for assess-
ment of human behavior. A shrewd and
observant waiter can be as good a judge of
character as anyone.” —Radio speaker.
The psychoanalyst who wears
An air of great profundity,
Could trip himself in divers snares
Set for him by examinee.
He might, in analysing all
The answers, given to his queries,
Not always be right on the ball;
The engine of his craft could stall
If fed on too-rich-mixture theories.
Likewise the cove who claims that he's
Able quite easily to glean
Your character-diversities
From lumps and nodules on your bean.
His strong opinion you’re a boob
He’ll base on cranial corrugation —
A view you know’s not worth a jube;
The dent caused by a hard-flung tube
Had led to misinterpretation.
But he who serves you with your meal,
And takes a gink at how you feed —
He knows the worth while from the
“heel,”
The human orchid from the weed !
The way you wield the knife and fork,
The manner of your demolition
Of flounder or of slab of pork,
Reaction to the pop of cork —
By these he’ll gauge your disposition,
And accurately, too. He’ll pin
Your honesty (or else) in biz
On how you tuck your napkin in,
Not by expression on your phiz.
And yet this guess / would essay :
The way the diner’s mask is ripped off , '•*>
His character bared for display
Would heavily lean upon the way
The waiter-pundit had been tipped-off !
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


FANTASTIC WAR-TIME TOW
NO STRANGER VOYAGE!
By MALCOLM WALLACE
THOSE who lived anywhere near the
seafront at North Cottesloe (W.A.)
during the war had an excellent
view of what have been described
as “Naval Occasions.”
There was always something going on.
There were the little Dutch minesweepers
working away to the north of Rottnest
at their monotonous job. There might
be a convoy of great liners, far from
their usual Atlantic run, an American
flat-top, British cruisers, queer flat-
bottomed Chinese river- boats, or sub-
marines.
Nearly always there were submarines,
for Fremantle was the most important
submarine-base for the Allied operations
against Japan; something like 80 per
cent, of the Japanese shipping was sunk
by submarines which had Fremantle as
their home port.
What made it more interesting was that
everything was unexpected; one never
knew what might turn up. Over the
war years almost every variety of craft
with an entry in Lloyd’s Register or
Jane’s Fighting Ships put in at Fremantle
—as well as some whose names did not
appear >in either. There was even a small
two-masted sailing-ship which periodi-
cally made its way across the Bight from
the eastern States.
By the beginning of 1944 the residents
of North Cottesloe had become quite
knowledgeable about ships: they believed
they had seen just about everything that
floated.
Then, on a fine Sunday morning in
January they found that their experience
was not so complete as they had thought.
The early risers looked out to sea as usual
to discover if anything new had arrived
in the night, and were not disappointed.
Something had arrived, all right, but
what sort of craft it could be was more
than most of them could imagine.
The thing looked like the two sides of
a barn, but without a roof or the two
ends. Circling round it were two small
but powerful tugs, and approaching it
from the direction of Fremantle were the
two port tugs Uco and Wyola.
The queer-looking thing was a floating-
dock which the two tugs had towed half-
way round the world!
A RRIVED inside Rottnest the towing
tugs had disengaged, so that the Uco
and Wyola, with their greater manoeuvr-
ability, could take over their charge and'
bring her to berth.
No easy job to pick up a tow of that
nature at sea. The dock itself was without
power, and could not even be steered ;
all it could do was wallow clumsily in
the water, as, helpless in the currents and
against the prevailing wind, it drifted
nearer to the coast.
It Was a long time before the Uco and
Wyola could make their tows fast, and it
was nearly midnight before they had the
dock safely berthed alongside Victoria
Quay.
As she was being made secure, some-
one called out to a member of the crew,
“Where d’you come from, mate?”
“Iceland.”
“’Struth! And how long did that
take?”
“About ten months.”
Now, this may not have been the
longest tow on record, but it was certainly
“Pardon me, but is this the current to Polynesia ?”
one of the most hazardous. And the tow
wasn’t over yet! By the time the queer
craft and its crew ended their voyaging
they must have been close to breaking all
records. At any rate, there was never a
stranger voyage.
/COMMISSIONED Shipwright Trist,
R.N., had not had a happy war. He
had spent a good deal of the time con-
voying ships with supplies for Russia to
the White Sea ports of Murmansk and
Archangel. He was on three ships which
were torpedoed or bombed and sunk. The
last time he was rescued he was the sole
survivor and had spent a long time in
the Arctic water before he was picked up:
an extraordinary case of survival.
Somehow, it must have been brought
to the notice of the Lords of the
Admiralty that Commissioned Shipwright
Trist had just about had enough for the
present; after his return to England and
discharge from hospital he was posted to
a shore job—a spell of “light duties” to
give him a chance to make some recovery
from his experiences.
It was a brief spell, at that. He had
hardly had time to settle down when it
was decided that a floating-dock which
was no longer needed in Iceland could
be more usefully employed in some other
part of the world. Somebody had to
take charge of it: who better than Com-
missioned Shipwright Trist? At any rate
it would be a change from the Murmansk,
run.
Probably Trist thought so, too: any-
way, he had no choice ; and with a crew
of about 30R.N. dockyard workers—and
not a single experienced seaman among
them—he was flown to Iceland to take
over his charge.
His destination —with the dock —was
Gibraltar, and he had been told that,
towed by the two Navy tugs, and provided
weather conditions were favorable and
the high average speed of nine knots was
maintained, he should get there in nine
days.
TNSTEAD the Atlantic produced some
of its worst weather. The tugs could
make little headway ; and they were still
some hundreds,of miles off the west coast
of Ireland, and in a violent storm —-when
the dock broke away from the tugs!
At this stage the skippers of the tugs
signalled that they were running short of
fuel and that they would have to make
for a North of Ireland port for bunkers.
So for several days Trist and his crew
of dockyard workers on their floating-
dock wallowed helplessly in the Atlantic
—and there could be few things more
helpless than a “craft” of that sort on its
own in stormy weather.
Fortunately they were too far-out to sea
to get piled-up on a rock-bound coast,
and nothing collided with them.
The weather had moderated by the time
the tugs came back, and with a good deal
of difficulty they picked up their tow.
(Continued on page 56)


POLITICAL POINTS
The campaign for more scientists is
already getting results. Last week the
N. S. Wales University of Technology
made Prime Minister Menzies an* honor-
ary D.Sc.
• •
Sooner or later the Cahill Government
will run out of new devices for encourag-
ing gambling. But the bigger likelihood
is that long before that happens the
gamblers will run out of chips.
• • i
If Nicklin wants to initiate any new
public works he’ll have to suspend
operations on some of the Gair projects
or find some more money. According to
the annual report of the Queensland Co-
ordinator of Public Works uncompleted
loan-works are estimated to cost £6O
million; Queensland’s share of loan-
money this year was £26 million.
• •
U.S. businessman A. D. Kelso holds
out big hopes for the investment of more
American money in Australia. He said
last week that the United States had in-
vested heavily in South America in the
past 10 years, but that the movement
was now trending towards Australia and
New Zealand. Reasons: sound currency ;
political stability; first-class workmen.
• •
The Banking Bill debate will give
Labor members their best chance betwee’n
now and next election of posturing in the
role of defenders of the people against
the wicked capitalists. Some of them
tried to get off to a flying start while
Fadden was introducing the bills on
Thursday night. Haylen set out to
qualify as a martyred militant and, when
he was duly thrown out according to plan,
remarked dramatically, “I am the first
casualty in the fight for the Common-
wealth Bank.” It looked a clear case of a
self-inflicted wound;
Trouble with some of Labor’s in-
tellectuals is that they feel compelled to
prove that they’re as tough as the pick-
’n’-shovel blokes. Particularly when they
hold a swinging seat and have their eye
on a possible coalfields vacancy.
• •
In the S.A. Parliament they believe in
calling a spade a spade. A bill to amend
the Registration of Dogs Act contained
a reference to “female dog.” It was
amended to “bitch.”
• •
Red-dominated Amalgamated Engi-
neering Union is the medium for the
Comrades’ first move since they increased
their influence so sharply at the A.C.T.U.
congress: the union is asking the
A.C.T.U. to withdraw its delegates from
the Labor Advisory Council set up by
the Federal Government to discuss non-
contentious labor problems. The A.E.U.’s
55,000 members should be among the
most enlightened unionists in the nation ;
but the Reds have a firm grip on their
overalls.
• •
Richmond (Melbourne) Council, which
is composed fairly evenly of A.L.P. and
D.L.P. councillors —making every vote
by a ratepayer more precious than when
either section was in charge —agreed
unanimously to reject a proposal to sell
its Victoria Street playground to a petrol
company. It was the first time since the
big split that Richmond councillors had
agreed on any important issue. Weren’t
the kids lucky?
• •
Britain plans a parachute-landing of
a small party at the North Pole next
May. The idea is to investigate the con-
ditions that would face a rescue team
after a crash or forced landing by one
of the many airliners that now fly over
the top of the world. The intention is
for the party to stay in the Arctic for
three or four weeks. Later a permanent
team, on an international basis, is
proposed.
• •
The suggestion that N. S. Wales should
have an Agent-General in New York is
a knockout.
• •
That Metropolitan Cement overdraft?
Cahill has said several times in answers
to questions about the £4 million that he.
has “no control whatsoever over the
Rural Bank” and that he refuses to inter-
fere with its administration. However,
last week he told Opposition-leader
Morton that he had written to the presi-
dent of the bank saying that he would
call on‘ him and his colleagues “to discuss
the overdraft.”
• •
No one can accuse Menzies and
Fadden of springing a surprise with their
new banking legislation. In 1947 Ben
Chifley .announced without warning his
intention to nationalise the banks. Bob
and Artie are now doing something they
promised eight years ago.
• •
“Judee”: Troubles of TV patrons!
Complaints have been made that when
N e s c a, the electricity-distributing
authority at Newcastle (N.S.W.), operates
its radio-telephone, viewers on Channel 2
can’t use their sets. When the Chamber
of Commerce decided at a meeting to
ask the P.M.G.’s Department to have
the matter rectified, one member said his
trouble was radio-taxis ; he was able to
tell at the end of the night just who had
ordered a taxi.
Scare-stories of the damage and danger
caused by the accident at the Windscale
atomio-energy plant have been dis-
counted by Sir Christopher Hinton,
chairman of the U.K. Central Electricity
Generation Board.
I think it is worth while to get passing
troubles into perspective with the tremen-
dous triumphs that been achieved.
Windscale is having some difficulty at the
moment. It is, I am sure, a passing
difficulty. I am. quite certain it has done no
material damage to any man or living
being or to any property. Let us consider
our present difficulty in relation to the fact
that Windscale gave the country a defence
weapon which was an invaluable asset to us
and paved the way to the development of
Calder Hall, and the later industrial reactors
which I think have gained a national prestige
as great as, or even greater than, the country
has achieved in any other sphere.
• •
Ebasco’s long-awaited report on N. S.
Wales Government transport was to have
been released last Wednesday, but at the
last minute someone decided it might be
best to keep it in captivity a bit longer.
Deadline is now this week.
• •
Final figures in the Gregory (Q.) by-
election: Rae (Country party), 2075;
Duggan (A.L.P.), 1328 ; Smith (Q.L.P.),
955. At the general election last year
the late Mines Minister Devries polled
2847 votes and the Country-party candi-
date Campbell 1516.
• •
The recently imposed tax on automotive
diesel-fuel is intended to apply only
to fuel consumed by road-users. Diesel-
fuel used in stationary engines or for
other non-road purposes is exempt. How-
ever, for administrative reasons all diesel-
fuel is taxed in the first instance and a
rebate must be claimed for non-road fuel.
The Department of Customs and Excise
will shortly be issuing forms on which
applications for rebates must be made.
• •
“Tidak Makan”: When the M.L.A. for
Sutherland pointed out to the N.S.W.
Minister for Transport th&t workers using
the Cronulla train-service travelled under
conditiops of serious discomfort for two
hours each day because of the over-
crowded conditions during peak-periods,
the Minister disclosed that he was “not
conversant with the conditions of travel
on the Cronulla railway” and stated he
would give an answer at a later date. His
subsequent answer indicates clearly what
some Labor politicians think of the rights
and comforts of the people. He said
“that although the loading of electric-
trains on the Cronulla line was heavy
during peak-periods it was no worse than
on other lines.”
It is not unusual for people boarding
trains at Caringbah, 22 miles from
Sydney, to have to stand all the way in
and most of the way home. Apparently
it doesn’t matter to the Minister that
people have to stand in lurching trains
for 40 miles per day ; he doesn’t.


On Monday the 64-rouble question was
whether Zhukov was going up or down.
If down, then his removal is one more
step in Khrushchev’s .climb to supreme
power. It is believed that it was Zhukov’s
support at a critical stage that enabled
Khrush. to banish Malenkov, Molotov
and Kaganovich. The most popular of
the World War generals, he has lately
been Minister for Defence, and the
announcement of his removal from that
post was made only half-an-hour after
his return from a visit to Yugoslavia and
Albania. On Moscow’s past record this
could mean either disgrace or preferment
for a more important post, possibly the
Premiership.
• •
J. D. Kenny, who was rescued by his
medical advisers from the A.L.P. mission
to Red China last May, is to make the
trip after all. He’ll attend a congress of
the All China Federation of Trade
Unions.
• •
Former N. S. Wales Premier James
McGirr, who died suddenly in Sydney
on Sunday night, was first elected to
Parliament in 1922 as member' for
Cootamundra, succeeding his brother
Greg, who had transferred to a city
electorate. He followed his brother’s
example not long afterwards, and, after
representing Cumberland for a couple of
years, became member for Bankstown
in 1927. He represented Bankstown for
23 years, transferring to Liverpool in
1950. He was Minister for Health and
Local Government in Lang’s last
Ministry and for Local Government and
Housing when Labor returned to office
under W. J. McKell in 1941. On
McKell’s elevation to the Governor-
Generalship in 1947 he gained the
Premiership, beating R. J. Heffron by
two votes in the caucus ballot.
His reign as Premier was chiefly
notable for the introduction of the 40-
hour week —the Federal Arbitration
Court was considering the question, and
he “jumped the gun”—for setting the
pattern for Loan Council altercations with
Chifley and Menzies and for several
threats to resign, culminating, in 1952,
with a real resignation and the acceptance
of the post of chairman of the Maritime
Services Board. Since 1954 he had lived
in retirement in Sydney.
As a young man McGirr took a degree
in pharmaceutical chemistry and worked
at his profession for a few years before
entering politics. At one time he also
worked a small farm near Parkes, where
he was born in 1890, and where the
McGirrs are very well known.
• •
The British Labor party sent Khrush-
chev the only possible answer to his
invitation to discuss Middle East
problems, i.e., that it does not negotiate
with Governments of other countries on
matters affecting the United Kingdom’s
international relations.
• •
Menzies told the N.S.W. University of
Technology that he had received and
was studying the “brilliant report of the
Murray committee on the state of Aus-
tralian universities,” and that he hoped
something “good and great” would be
done for the universities as a result. In
the corridor later, after refreshments in
the Common Room, he remarked with a
chuckle that the editor of the university’s
magazine was an enterprising lad. The
youngster had asked him for some
exclusive extracts of the best parts of the
Murray report.
• •
T. L. Lewis becomes the new M.L.A.
for Wollondilly (N.S.W.) as a result of
Saturday’s by-election to fill the vacancy
caused by the resignation of Blake Pelly.
On Monday the figures were: Lewis
(Lib.), 8214 ; Seager (Lab.), 5014 ; Sweet
(Ind.), 2692. At that stage Lewis had an
absolute majority of 508 over his two
opponents, and the A.L.P. president was
crowing that the vote showed a growing
trend against the Liberal party because
Lewis’s tally was 3000 fewer than Pelly’s
had been last year. He’s entitled to draw
what comfort he can from the figures, but
his appraisal of the results ignores the
strong personal vote of Pelly and the
intrusion of an Independent. The votes
that fell away from the Liberal candidate
went to the Independent, not to the A.L.P.
man.
• •
Syria’s Acting Defence Minister
Khaled El Azm has followed Khrush-
chev’s example in trying to make
Turkey’s flesh creep. He “warns” that
Turkey would be devastated for two
centuries even if it were on the winning
side in a war resulting from its aggression
against Syria. It is unlikely that Turkey
has any illusions about what would
happen to it if Russia decided to strike,
with or without prior action by Turkey.
And the idea that Turkey, knowing this,
would intentionally invite a Russian
invasion is so fantastic that the hollow-
ness of Russian and Syrian allegations
should be obvious to even the most
uninformed members of U.N.
• •
Utah Construction Co.’s completion
seven months ahead of schedule of a 14-
mile canal from the Murray to Lake
Victoria, the storage-basin which regulates
South Australia’s share of the Murray
waters, gives point to N. S. Wales
Opposition-leader Morton’s plea for
•making use of private enterprise on
public-works projects. It’s a long time
since any major N. S. Wales Government
job was finished on time, let alone ahead
of schedule.
• •
“Wusslean”: Although council rates
have more than doubled in some munici-
palities, the Municipal Association of
Victoria has refused to permit the pay-
ment of rates in two half-yearly parts.
Opponents of the move claimed it would
add enormously to administrative costs
without benefiting ratepayers. As usual,
the victims were not consulted ; but, judg-
ing from the readiness with which the
community pays high interest-charges for
the advantage of buying on terms, there
would be few who would haggle over the
modest surcharge required to meet
additional collection-costs.
"IF I WERE KING..."


There
IT
s
flight to suit YOU!
Whenever you travel, wherever you travel, there’s always a
TAA VISCOUNT flight to suit you. For your convenience,
TAA operates daily round-the-clock Viscount flights, between
all states. From as far north as Cairns, to Hobart in the south,
right across the nation to Perth in the west, you can fly TAA Viscount.
More people fly TAA-
Reservations: TAA Booking Offices«in ail States
the friendly way
or any authorised Travel Agent.
NPV3I7
PERSONAL ITEM
After their six months’ leave in Eng-
land, Sir Dallas Brooks, Governor of
Victoria, and his lady got a right royal
welcome back to Melbourne to begin
another five-years term ; as well as a civic
welcome they were given an enthusiastic
reception in a 12-mile drive around the
inner, industrial suburbs. Sir Dallas
Brooks has splendid public and press
standing in Victoria. They have been
well earned, and none of his aides has
yet been discovered —in public, anyway—
in tweeds.
• •
R. C. (“Bert”) King completed 32
years as secretary of Roseville Golf Club
last Friday. No N.S.W. golf-club has had
a better secretary.
• •
From Pat Lawlor: N.Z. Attorney-
General, now Deputy Prime Minister,
John Ross Marshall lists his recreations
in Who’s Who as “Work and bringing-
up the family.” Such virtue, one feels,
deserved reward. An approachable chap,
and, like his chief, a good-looker—New
Zealand has never had such handsome
political leaders ; interesting to see the
effect on the women’s vote —Marshall is
44, a lawyer, and was a major in World
War 11.
• •
Some of the most interesting people
who have appeared on these pages came
into The Bulletin office on other
business ; for instance, George Dickinson
(herewith), manager of the Sydney branch
of the Commonwealth Bank, dropped in
the other day to inquire about the original
of a caricature of an old Northern
Rivers (N.S.W.) school-cobber who had
been elected Premier of Queensland, and
to say good-day to another school-cobber
on the staff. He was handed-on to this
writer with the warning that he’d make
a good “Personal Item” if he could be
persuaded to talk.
At first this seemed unlikely. He
talked, but not about himself ; about the
Letters of Rachel Henning, and the
Queensland country mentioned in them;
the short stories of R. S. Porteous, an-
other old friend. Bank officials, he
implied, didn’t lead very exciting lives.
One of the standard questions is war-
service ; G.D. admitted some, laconically.
Pressed, he mentioned going to England
as a cadet with the Coronation Contin-
gent in 1911. Gradually, one learned he
BANKING
had been on Monash's staff, and a major,
at the age of 21 ; D.S.O. and the Russian
Order of St. Stanislaus, . and badly
knocked about. Then, talking about
Monash, he warmed to the subject. Still
laconic, no extravagance of word, but
bit by bit a picture was built-up. Monash,
in the heart of large affairs, writing-out
a menu for a week ahead —basic ingredi-
ents nothing much, but a variety every-
day ; Monash privately ordering whisky
in Egypt, and serving it out at the nightly
conferences on Gallipoli, one glass per
man —before long it was the only h.q,
with whisky, and very senior officers con-
trived to call there during tours of inspec-
tion, at the right time ; Monash drafting
an order and handing it to Dickinson, the
junior man on his staff, to “tear to
pieces.” That was an order; Monash
wanted criticism, not applause. Overall,
the picture of a powerful and lucid mind.
“That experience,” Dickinson said, “has
been of benefit to me time and time again
in civilian life.”
A former president of Killara Golf
Club, G.D. still likes to knock a ball
around, and to wet a line.
• •
Well-known Sydney man Colonel
E. T. Penfold, who is Australian delegate
at the current World Veterans’ Federation
conference in Berlin, was booked
to attend another conference last
week —the Lamp ,of Brotherhood one,
in Rome. He is Australian vice-president
of this organisation, an offshoot of the
United Nations ; it cares for women
whose husbands or sons are buried in
distant countries. Colonel Penfold, who
is chairman of W. C. Penfold and Co.
Pty., Ltd., is also president of the Citizens’
Reform Association, Federal president of
the Royal Australian Aripored Corps
Association, an N.R.M.A. councillor, and
motorists’ representative on the County
of Cumberland planning committee.
• •
Passed on at Dandenong (Vic.) last
week, at 69, Sir Harold Luxton, former
Lord Mayor of Melbourne, and one of
the chief sponsors of the 1956 Olympic
Games. Chairman of McEwans, Ltd.,
former chairman of National Mutual
Life Assn, of A/sia, Ltd., he was M.L.A.
for Caulfield from 1920 to 1935 and Lord
Mayor from 1928 to 1931. Born at
Bendigo (Vic.), educated at Melbourne
C.E.G.S., he served in War I first with


the guns, then with the planes, and in
recent years bred thoroughbreds at Dan-
denong. One of his sons, Lewis, is
managing-director of the Shell Company
of Australia, another, Walter, is a
Melbourne city councillor, and the third,
Thomas, is a director of McEwans.
• •
“Urarnao”: The president of the New
Zealand Association of Scientists, Dr. J.
G. Gibb, at the recent annual meeting
at Christchurch unburdened himself
on lack of interest by the press, and
consequently the public, in work of
scientific importance: a familiar com>
plaint. But Dr. Gibb went a little further
than most speakers on the subject have,
suggesting that scientists themselves are
partly to blame, because of their fondness
for using technical jargon which is un-
intelligible to the layman and, in any case,
often unnecessary.
• «
Packing his bags for the Food and
Agriculture Organisation conference in
Rome, Robert Jackson Noble, Under-
secretary of the N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture, and, one imagines, as much a
part of that organisation a§ fiesh-and-
blood can become. Son of a farmer-
turned-schoolteacher, Dr. Noble, who is
now 63, went to school at Sydney High,
graduated B.Sc.Agr. with first-class
honors and the University Medal, and
joined the department as a cadet the year
before World War 1; since 1940 he has
been permanent head, and since 1949 his
service in that capacity has been longer
than that of any of his opposite-numbers
in the N.S.W. public service.
With the sth M.G.Bn. in Egypt and
France, after the cease-fire he helped keep
troops amused during the long wait in
England by lecturing on agricultural
subjects ; came back to collect the first
Ben Fuller travelling scholarship, and,
since then, has had a hand in just about
everything of agricultural significance in
his State, and in much beyond it. To skip
AGRICULTURE
hastily through the record —as early as
1921 lie was Australian Commonwealth
representative at the international confer-
ence of cereal pathologists in America ;
he got his Master of Science degree
(shortly followed by Ph.D.) for research
into flag-smut in 1922, and in 1930, as
chief biologist, he did a great deal to put
the mushroom industry (now worth more
than £50,000 a year to N.S.W. growers) on
a sound basis. During the depression a
lot of people took-up mushroom-growing
as a sideline, but failed because of poor
brick-spawn imported from abroad. Dr.
Noble prepared pure culture spawn,
which was soon used by growers both in
N. S. Wales and in other States.
He's been president of many learned
societies, was leader of the Common-
wealth delegation to the first F.A.O.
meeting in Quebec, plays golf at Killara,
and is prominent in Rotary. His C.B.E.
was in this year’s Birthday Honors list.
• •
Stanley Korman, who made a substan-
tial entry into the hire-purchase field last
week, was a Polish migrant in 1927.
Over the past few years he has repeatedly
surprised Melburnians with big business
deals, and now has a controlling interest
in companies concerned with real estate
and hotels (including Stanhill, a Mel-
bourne office-block landmark, Surfers’
Paradise, Chevron and Scotts Hotel),
textiles (including Holeproof and Korma,
N.Z.), importing and exporting. He is
closely linked with American capital, and
has been associated with Kurt Geiger in
some of Geiger’s ambitious retail deals.
Korman began with a few knitting-
machines during the depression, and built
the business into Centenary Mills, which
he has since sold ; but he was not well
known in Collins Street until he built
Stanhill. He has been anxious to promote
American migration to Australia since
the war, but so far has found it easier to
attract dollars than men.
• •
Calling it a day after 50 years in the
P.M.G.’s Department, George Richard-
son, who has been superintendent of
stores and contracts in Perth for the past
14 years. He joined the service as a
messenger-boy on a salary of £2 3s. 4d.
a month, paid in sovereigns, half-
sovereigns, shillings and pence, because
banknotes were not in general use in
those days.
• •
Here is Eric Westbrook, the lively,
youngish Director of Melbourne’s well-
heeled Gallery, as Dick Ovenden sees him.
Westbrook, who used to wag it in Eng-
land to brood around the galleries,
decided quite early that he could never
be a first-rate artist and concentrated on
the administrative side of art, getting his
first appointment as a gallery director at
Wakefield, Yorkshire.
He was a medical reject in War 11, but
got into Army Education, and hopes that
he was the first man to lecture on art
from the turret of a tank. He left Wake-
field to become exhibitions officer for the
British Council, carting specimens of
British art around Europe, and then
ART
accepted an appointment as director of
Auckland’s City Art Gallery (N.Z.), where
some of his livelier ideas startled the more
elderly Aucklanders, but lifted the
attendance from perhaps 10,000 a year
to more than 150,000.
• Westbrook looks on art as entertain-
ment rather than sheer culture, and this
explains his efforts to make its environ-
ment and presentation pleasant rather
than institutional. In Melbourne he has
the substantial assistance of the remark-
ably strong National Gallery Society, a
non-official body of friends of the gallery.
• •
J. E. V. Murdoch has been made a
member of the Australian National Air-
lines Commission, which controls T.A.A.
He is governing partner of a leading firm
of accountants in W.A., and has held
directorships in a number of companies
with varied interests.
• •
Dick Ovenden, the Melbourne artist
who draws personalities for The
Bulletin, kept a stiff upper lip last week
when officially informed that one of his
paintings had been discovered (un-
damaged, to add to the injury) on North
Melbourne tip. It was so many years
since the painting, of a well-known
Melbourne family, had been commis-
sioned at their seaside house that he
couldn’t clearly recall them, but a mutual
acquaintance did, and now the family
have it back again—all they have
retrieved so far from a burglary.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Geelong (Vic.), at 54, Allan McDonald,
Victorian Minister for Labor in the Hollway
Government from 1948 to 1950. M.L.C. for
South-West Province (1940-52), first as a
Country-party member, then with the L.C.P.
Served with the A.I.F. in World War 11.
At Laverton (Vic.), at 77, “Billy” Williams,
probably the best-known identity at Laverton
R.A.A.F. station. Retiring as a W.O. in 1946,
he had served in War I in the Australian
Flying Corps, and was a foundation-member of
the R.A.A.F.
In an accident at Katoomba (N.S.W.), at 65,
Professor Vere Gordon Childe, world-ranking
archaeologist and writer of many historical
and archaeological works. Sydney-born, he was
engaged at his death on a book to be called
Pre-history of European Civilisation. An
account of his life was given on the Personal
Items page (B. 8/5 / ’57).


ABORIGINALITIES
THERE’S a move afoot to honor a fine
character in Australian literature —
and, with him, the principle of collecting
for the bloke who needs a hand.
Citizens of Bendigo (Vic.) propose to
erect a statue commemorating Bob
Brothers (“the Giraffe”), of the Henry
Lawson story “Send Round the Hat.”
The interest of the old goldmining town
stems from the fact that Brothers —if, as
the story suggests, he is drawn from life —
.was a Bendigonian.
The story—one of Lawson’s happiest
—mentions that Brothers came from and
went back to Bendigo, before and after
the philanthropic deeds which make the
story. It was Bob’s habit to introduce
himself to a group of workmates in
Bourke (N.S.W.) with such as “I hope I
ain’t disturbin’ yer, but there’s a cove
« . There would follow an account of
the troubles encountered by someone,
and a request to chuck in. Lawson (or
Lawson's character) tells how:
He was always helping someone or
something. Now it was a bit of a “darnce”
that we were getting up for the girls; again
it was Mrs. Smith, the woman whose
husban’ was drowned in the flood in the
Bogan River lars’ Crismas, or that there
poor woman down by the Billabong—her
husband cleared out and left her with a lot
o’ kids. Or Bill Something, the bullocky,
who was run over bydiis own wagon, while
he was drunk, and got his leg broke
After shearing, the hat usually started
round with the Giraffe’s (so named for his
height) own dirty crumpled pound-note in
the bottom of it as a send-off, later on it
was half-a-sovereign, and so on down to
half-a-crown and a shilling, as he got short
of stuff; till in the end he would borrow
a few bob —which he always repaid after
next shearing “just to start the thing
goin’.”
When the Giraffe left Bourke for
Bendigo it was in response to an un-
expected overture from a “big-hearted
little girl” by whom he had thought he
was not wanted. The blokes of Bourke
didn’t forget him. They stole his hat
and took up a collection—“a record” —
to help him along.
The story concludes:
And, as I sit here writing ... in the midst
of a great city of shallow social sham ... I
am almost aware of a burst of sunshine in
the room, and a long form leaning over my
chair, and:
“Excuse me for troublin’ yer; I’m always
troublin’ yer; but there’s that there poor
woman” . . .
And I wish I could immortalise him!
Well, Bob’s home-town is taking
Henry’s wish closer to reality—if such is
needed. The efforts of a prominent
"It says: Stone Walls do not a prison make, nor iron bars a cage'!"
Bendigo trade-unionist, “Llew” Llewellyn,
over some time have led to a committee
being elected from a public meeting called
by the Mayor (Cr. A. S. Craig). Aim is
to get the interest of organisations and
people.
Preliminary estimates are that a life-
size bronze statue will cost £3OOO. A
pilgrimage to the site on Australia Day
each year is planned—to link Australia
Day with a developing Australian culture.
The organisers welcome support (appar-
ently through Mr. Llewellyn, at 102 Vic-
toria Street, Eaglehawk, Bendigo, or
through the Mayor of Bendigo, Town
Hall, Bendigo).
L. N.
“H.C.8.”: Has the existence of a
white-tailed wallaby ever been recorded
in Australia? Ellis Troughton neither
depicts nor mentions such a species in
Furred Animals of Australia. Nonethe-
less it exists, and within 80 miles of
Sydney. (To state the exact locality would
be to ensure that it will promptly become
e x t i n c t —trigger-happy “sportsmen”
would see to that; the information, how-
ever, would willingly be made available
to genuine naturalists.) The animals —-
there are at least three of them —stand
between 3ft. and 3ft. 6in. high, are grey
with a ginger tinge in body-color, and the
tail is milk-white from butt to tip. They
were observed not far from one another,
which could indicate that an interesting
sub-species exists in the area, or that
Nature in a capricious mood produced a
“sport” and the coloring is being carried
on through a family-line.
* * * *
“Woonulla”: A sheep-cocky came into
the bar, seeking a shearer for his small
flock. Several whom he approached said
they were booked-up, but one added,
poker-faced, “That bloke over there’s a
shearer. Ask him.” Bloke indicated had
just “rung” a series of big sheds, and had
a lively appreciation of his own worth.
He looked the cocky up and down.
“How many you got?” he asked. “About
nine hundred,” said the cocky. The gun-
shearer looked very thoughtful. “Nine
hundred, eh?” he said. “What’s their
names?”
* * * *
. “8.A.K.”: “Ringer’s” picture of Jimmy
Tyson (B. 2/10/’57) may be the true one,
but the Tyson of legend not only decreed
That his station-cooks should violate all
bush etiquette by refusing to fill the
tucker-bags of swaggies passing through,
but on occasions disguised himself as a
bagman to find out whether his orders
were being implicitly obeyed. If allega-
tion is correct he was not so opposed to
wastage of labor, either. One story goes
that he sometimes personally broke his
rule about feeding swaggies—if they
agreed to work for it. The work consisted
of turning a grindstone for an hour—
with nobody grinding anything. If they
protested about the uselessness of it there
was no hand-out. Another yarn avers that
he made two sundowners earn their
HOPELESSLY
Pronunciations puzzle me:
Can someone tell me how
It’s war-hope when it’s Wauchope when
Without a hope it’s Wau ?
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.


Qivvyj Gtvvy gouT 9
Yoor. sh'igtV
//
Cot %


crust by taking turn-about in swinging
each other to and fro on a five-barred
gate. Perhaps it was Lethbridge whom
Tyson told “You’ll never be a rich man,”
but legend says it was Kidman ; and the
occasion, when the embryo cattle-king
wasted a match to light his pipe, although
sitting in front of an open fire. Rightly
or wrongly, the expression “As tight as
Tyson” is nearly as firmly established as
the comparison of chances with those of
the late Mr. Buckley.
* * * *
“Muruk” (Rabaul): “Q, Ree” (B.
4/9/’57) has obviously never smelt
flying-fox cooking. As a resident of the
T.N.G. for many years I’ve often had
them on. Cooked flying-fox
smells like pigeon, and,
properly cooked, tastes even
better.
* * *
“Noo Zee”: Recent men-
tion here of the pubs, miners
and white herons of Okarito
(N.Z.) should have included
the huge whale that was
stranded within a mile or two
of the township soon after
the turn of the century. Two
local lads claimed it, but
after some negotiating it was
bought for Christchurch
Museum for something like
£5O. Edgar Stead, noted N.Z.
ornithologist and naturalist,
Undertook the salvage job,
with a friend’s help. I had
the story from Stead himself.
The pub people wouldn’t
have them stay there because,
though they themselves got
used to it, they stank to high
heaven, so they had to live in
a “bach” near by. It took
them about seven months to
get the bones clean enough
for shipping—the jawbones
alone weighed over two tons
each —and at both Hokitika
and Lyttelton the consign-
ment made the wharfies sick.
During the salvage job
Storms threatened to wash
away some of the bones ; but
Stead had noticed that the oil exuding
from the whale flattened the sea, so they
stacked large lumps of blubber firmly on
the sand at low-water mark. This enabled
them to get the skeleton complete. It
was an outsize in whales. Washington
Museum offered £lOOO for it, but Stead
refused. It is in Christchurch Museum
today—the most perfect whale-skeleton
over 80ft. long in the world.
* * * •
‘‘Mako”: Re Service Department query
on boxing-kangaroos (B. 16/10/’57),
there was a lawsuit over one in the U.S.
some years ago. Travelling in an old-
fashioned elevator with his trainer, a
boxing-kangaroo let his tail slip through
the rear wire-grille door, and about a foot
of it was sliced off. Owner sued pro-
prietor of building for compensation for
loss of the kangaroo’s earning-capacity.
Lawyer for defence claimed there had
been no great damage done ; all kanga-
roos were natural boxers, and the
incapacitated animal could be easily
replaced by another with a full-size tail.
The judge agreed ; verdict for the defence,
despite plaintiff’s indignant protest that it
took years of training to make an efficient
“gloveman” out of a wild kangaroo.
* * » •
“Starter”: When anyone starts arguing
about the biggest cheese ever made in
Australia don’t forget the one made on
the Darling Downs (Q.) in .1924 by the
Pittsworth Dairy Association to advertise
Australian cheese at the Wembley Exhibi-
tion. It weighed 33001 b., went sft. in
diameter and 3ft. high. When they came
to fill the huge mould the staff found they
were short of curd to top it off. So they
raced out to a branch factory at Yarran-
lea, about nine miles away, and filled
milk-cans with curd from the vats there.
When they finally got the monster to the
ship it was too big to fit into the refriger-
ated hold. So off it went to London as
ordinary hold-cargo, and eventually it
hit the headlines at the Exhibition.
Three cheesemakers did the job: Barney
Braham, Bob Snell and Percy Farrington
names in the Queensland cheese
game.
* * * *
“Motuku”: The spirit of the hurricane,
the little black-and-white petrel, often
seen sheltering in the lee of some storm-
tossed ship, and all of its kin up to the
great wandering albatross, take their
chance of riding out storms at sea, and
many of them are washed ashore, dead
or dying. But those professional pirates
the frigate-birds are not so daring, and
come circling shoreward to give us a
wonderful display of gliding. Watched
two of these fragile-looking birds with
their narrow, swept-back, scythe-curved
wings and long forked tails, sail nor’-
westward up the coast against a 25-knot
wind without any apparent movement of
their wings. If they had left vapor-trails
these would have been like series of hand-
written letters, eeeeeeeee, arid their
resultant speed was about 10 knots. Can
any aerodynamics expert tell us how they
do it?
* * * *
“J.W.8.”: Died recently at Hilton
Park (W.A.), Ambrose Madrid, aged 93,
and reasonably active almost to the end,
who’s said to have been the last survivor
of Cobb and Co.’s drivers. Any other
claimants to the title?
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The blacks cer-
tainly ate the spores of marsilia, or clover-
fern (B. 2/10/’57), and so have white
men —when Burke and Wills and King
failed to meet up with their party as they
returned from their dash to the northern
coast, they subsisted for a time on these
clover-ferns. They’re not nutritious, but
they contain a little starch, and the natives
in the Centre, who couldn’t neglect any
source of food, used to collect the spore-
cases and grind them up to a sort of
flour. That’s a peculiarity of marsilia.
It’s a fern, and so reproduces by means
of spores instead of seeds ; but whereas
most ferns produce spores on the backs
of fronds, the clover-fern has certain
specialised stalks or fronds on which the
spore-cases form like pods. It was those
spore-cases and their contents the natives
called “nardoo,” not the plant itself.
* * * *
“C.C.D.”: The redback spider had
built its web in the 15in. space between
the ice-chest and the wall and lOin. from
the floor. Hanging in the web was a
4in. centipede—a good feat of heavy-
weight lifting by any standards, but what
principle of physics or engineering does
Redback use to effect it?
FROM GUNDAGAI TO JUGIONG
In a windy tree on a folded hitl
A magpie sat with a shoe-button eye,
A shoe-button eye and a neat, pied wing,
And he filled his throat full of summer to
sing —
Of tilt-horned cattle like kyloe cows,
Drowsed by the sweet of willowed flats;
And the longing sound of honeying bees,
Stealing the sun from amber trees.
Twin worlds shone in his mirror eyes
And he filled his throat with all he saw —-
Filled his throat and spilled his song
From Gundagai to Jugiong,
Till summer and song and honey shone
Two round suns in his golden eyes.
Oh, a magpie sang from a folded hill
And I don’t doubt he is singing still.
N.S.W.
ANNE BELL.


/'YNE of the mysteries of Torres Strait
—a collection of blocks of stone in
a secluded part of the bush on Yam
Island in the Central group—was shown
me by my old friend Maino, son of
former chief Kebisu.
One is a large squared block about
51ft. long by 2ft. wide, and there is
another slab close by about sft. by 3ft.
The top of the first carries five deep
depressions and a couple of grooves;
the other has several circular bowl-shaped
depressions.
One theory is that this was a native
factory for making and grinding stone-
implements. Large axe-blades of the’ type
used on Kiwai Island, off New Guinea,
are thought to have been made here;
also the beautifully finished stone-heads
used as clubs. Some of the coastal people
of New Guinea claim that their old stone-
headed clubs and long axe-blades came
from the Strait, and that the stone itself
was obtained from the sea-bottom.
Hanging on my wall is one of these
Torres Strait “gabba-gabbas” (stone
clubs) presented to me by Maino. It had
figured in headhunting, and the old man
showed me the way its nicely balanced
weight, on springing cane-handle attached
to the wrist by a thong, used to stun a
running victim, the pursuer meanwhile
clawing at the bamboo knife hanging
round his neck with which to remove the
newly-acquired head.
C. Coral.
* * * *
“R.D.”: Painkiller as a tipple, tonic
and cure-all (B. 9/10/’57) was standard
in the outback of long ago, and with a
bottle of Elliman’s embrocation and a
few packets of Epsom-salts constituted
the bushman’s complete health-kit; but
there were other tonics used for
beverage rather than physic purposes.
The Safe Cure referred to was probably
Warner’s. The bottle carried as its
“strange device” a picture of an office
safe, a piece of advertising archness that
must have given its “public relations”
inventor (circa 1880) a great thrill of
achievement.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: To inform those timber-
men who fruitlessly thumbed their dic-
tionaries of world woods for the pink-pine
of “Uramao” (B. 11/9/ ’57), this is
Dacrydium biforme, which occurs on the
South Island of New Zealand and does
not attain millable size. The essential oil
is manool, whose function in perfumery
is fixative, and whose success will deli-
cately depend upon whether its own basic
scent can blend with the floral perfumes
that might be based upon it. It is interest-
ing that this tree's notable botanical
cousin, the Tasmanian Dacrydium frank-
linii, produces Huon-pine oil, which, with
its refreshing sarsaparilla scent and anti-
septic value, has been successfully incor-
porated in a dentifrice.
* * * *
“Warick”: Once got this recipe from
a passing swaggie when the old mare
"Well, bon voyage, old man—I think We can depend on the technicians
to figure out a Way to get you back .”
tripped .and fell, badly lacerating her
knees. Get a piece of tanned sole-leather
about 6in. square ; place on a hot plate
or pan until it sizzles. Scrape juice oft
with a knife and mix with sufficient lard
to make a smooth ointment. He claimed
it not only heals but also renews the
hair. I proved it.
TN Maoriland we had our share of
travelling editors who gave the village
its only true claim to the bohemian
touch (“O. P. Side,” B. 9/10/’57).
They were editors in little but name —-
control of the tri-weekly lay with a sparky
Irish manager who could near-electrocute
a dreaming stonehand with a one-finger
. . b ., A . u . ... r-
lab in the ribs. At a pinch he did his
J F , . .
own reporting, in the grand old manner
—brought his notes back from a court,
put them straight on the lino, and
punched his story directly on to the
metal. Fullstops, to him, were a witch-
doctor’s addition to journalistic
chemistry... .“Mrs S Jones, making her
first public appearance since the sad
accident to her husband, he now being,
his many friends will be happy to learn,
much better in the Tapanui Hospital,
wore an outfit in blue, it being attrac-
tively set off by matching gloves and
hat....” Or maybe it was simply that
on our lino, fullstops had a tendency
to appear high above their proper station
in life, like truncated semi-quotes.
But the editors . . . One was a nature-
lover, and his walkabout pastime made
him ignore even the deadline dictates of
a tri-weekly. He left after a deputation
from one of the local pahs indicated to
the manager that his love of things
natural extended to the girls of the marae
and was not reciprocated.
Our only university (agricultural) man
celebrated his arrival by describing a
ball in stockyard terms—down to the
mares and stallions of the evening, as he
pul it.
Another wrote a light-hearted half-
column about a mouse nibbling at a sack
of grain in an unnamed self-service store
and cost us three months’ half-page
advertising from the town’s only self-
service store.
The one we loved best had appeared
in hobnail-boots one day at the office-
door and was taken on spec. He had a
beard, nodded wisely, scorned use of a
typewriter and turned out to be a road-
man from the next county. He sold a
week’s supply of metal and most of our
stationery to an undisclosed buyer and
disappeared with one of the owner’s
daughters.
“At least he knew he was a scoundrel,”
was all the Irishman would say against
him.
M’BORO.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
Intrinsic Worth
TN the present state of world
affairs, and particularly, of
course,. Australian affairs, it
would be unwise to buy shares
on any basis other than that of
intrinsic worth.
And if buying for holding,
one should be very clear in
one’s mind as to what “hold-
ing” really means in terms of
time. Five years, say? Ten
years? For that is what
“holding” really means these
days, especially in regard to
investment in heavy industry.
Whilst Woolworths or G. J.
Coles may erect a new store in
six or 12 months and have it
paying within two years, a
tinplate-works may take five
years from first outlay to first
profit, and a petrochemical
plant or a rayon-extrusion
enterprise may take longer
still.
And so, when one now
accepts a yield of 3 p.c. or 4
p.c. from a first-class industrial,
one should make one’s own
comparatively simple actuarial
estimate of how long it will
be before one has received an
average of 5 p.c. over the whole
period of holding. After all,
5 p.c. is not a high yield, and
one should expect more from
an industrial equity investment.
Further, the answer to one’s
calculation will provide a clue
as to how the market is likely
to be appraising the stock at
the end of the chosen period.
It is not much use of assuming
that because the sharemarket
assesses a share on a 3| p.c.
basis today that it will so assess
it in five years’ time. Some-
where along the line the com-
pany has to pay-off in terms
of dividend-distribution, other-
wise one cannot, in common-
sense, depend on market incre-
ment to make-up for miserable
dividend-income in the mean-
time.
In other words, it does not
make sense to depend on some
naive investor offering you a
rewarding price at a -time
convenient to yourself for a
stock which you have found
over several years to be un-
remunerative on the basis on
which you bought it.
The flow-and-ebb of invest-
ment funds at present is creat-
ing unusual tide-rips in the
sharemarket. A high premium
is being paid for “safety.” But
where, in buying into a sound
industrial stock, one pays too
stiff a premium, the invest-
ment, because of the price
paid, may not, in the end, be
by any means as safe as the
particular business itself.
The contract of sale of
shares on the Stock Exchange
"If I’m not back in the mornin' you better start
rounding-up some bail-money. "
does not bind the company
to any particular profit-making
obligation or undertaking to
return the market price.
Metal Shares Down
YI/TTH the fall in prices for
’ most metals there has
been a sharp slump in Aus-
tralian metal stocks —even the
best of them.
On October 25, North
Broken Hill sold at £6, as
against a “high” of £8 Is.
earlier this year. Consolidated
Zinc was priced at 68s. last
week, against the top price of
1265. for 1957 so far. New
Broken Hill fetched 455.,
against 745. 6d.
Mt. Isa last week soltf for
305., against 395. 9d. earlier.
Mt. Lyell brought 225. 6d.,
against 31s. 3d. Peko was
down to 4s. (95.)
The titanium-metal stocks
and uraniums have shown
even heavier falls.
The market for metals and
metal shares will be worth
watching over the next few
weeks. More particularly
interesting will be the Barriers
and ML Isa.
Bradford and Burlington
AN interesting situation has
developed in the affairs of
Bradford Cotton Mills.
Its shares have not been
cheaper for several years; it
has been showing increased
profits ; and it has offered to
take over the remaining 421,650
£1 ord. shares in Burlington
Mills (it already owns 578,350
of them) on the basis of one
Bradford ord. for each two
Burlingtons.
In the sharemarket back-
ground of all this is the possible
effect of the trade-treaty with
Japan.
Last term Bradford and its
wholly - owned subsidiaries
earned a net profit of £488,245
(against £470,230 in the preced-
ing term), after providing
£323,099 for depreciation
(£279,703 preceding year) and
£361,260 for taxation (com-
pared with £313,718).
Allowing for pref. require-
ments and £5OOO sent to the
staff fund, the net profit was
equal to 16.3 p.c. on ord.
capital and employees shares,
and the usual 12£ p.c. div. was
paid easily.
Net tangible backing for the
ords. is 355. a share in assets
which are mostly conservatively
valued or well written-down.
Plant, for example, which
cost £5,356,903, has been
written-down by £2,532,527,
and last year’s depreciation
provision was equal to 11.4 p.c.
on the diminishing book-value
of plant.
Over 25 years Bradford
Cotton has not paid less than
10 p.c., and for the last four
years the div. has been steady
at 12| p.c.
[Bradford Cotton has a paid
capital of £3,061,961 in 153,101 £1
pret's. carrying 6 p.c., 2,783,032 £1
ords., and 113,765 employees’ shares
of £1 each.]
The Bradford group has its
mills in Sydney, Newcastle,
Rutherford, Footscray (Vic.),
Abbotsford (Vic.) and Bendigo.
Parti y-o wn e d subsidiaries
include the Burlington group
(rayon-spinners, also at Ruther-
ford), and an associated co. is
Chattanooga Tufted Carpets
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
Some investors have been
wondering how this Chatta-
nooga enterprise has been
faring in the generally difficult
carpet business. The board
does not mention tufted carpets
in its annual report. But the
balance-sheet shows that Brad-
ford’s total investment in com-
panies other than subsidiaries
amounts to only £111,873,
against ord.-shareholders’ funds
of over £5 million. Chatta-
nooga’s fortunes are clearly not
of particular importance in the
affairs of Bradford Cotton.
As to Burlington Mills, the
latest report of Bradford
mentions only the Burlington
group in its list of “partly
owned subsidiaries,” and invest-
ments in these by the parent
are valued at £341,385 (down
£37,500 during the year). If
the remainder of the shares are
acquired, it will be at a capital
cost of about £210,000 to Brad-
ford, which would give the
million £1 ords. in Burlington
a value of about £560,000 in
the Bradford books.
[Burlington Mills has a paid
capital of £1,502,755 in 500,000 42
p.c. prefs., 1,000,000 ords., and
2755 employees’ shares.]
Last term (to June 30, 1957)
Burlington’s turnover increased
18 p.c., following an increase
of 32 p.c. in the preceding
term. Production and sales of
fabric, both in yardage and
value, were the highest on
record. Profit for the year was
£79,443, after providing
£97,395 for depreciation, and
£41,550 for taxation. Div. at
p.c. on the half-million of
pref. money called for £23,750,
a sum of £19,000 was carried to
provision for long-service leave,
but no ord. div. was declared.
During the year Burlington
acquired from the Government
the land and buildings at
Rutherford occupied by
Burlington and Bradford. The
price payable is £530,623, and
arrangements have been made
to spread instalments over “a
number of years.”
As to current trading


o
Q
©
r
a
✓
/
PONT LET YOUR
OVERSEAS
REPRESENTATIVE
PINE TOR HOME
SEND HIM A SUBSCRIPTION TO
‘THE BULLETIN”
AS A CHRISTMAS-GIFT FROM THE FIRM
Every other day alert-looking men call at “The Bulletin’’
office and repeat a familiar phrase “I’m going overseas
for a period but I MUST KEEP IN TOUCH—send me
'The Bully’ every week.” Reasonable? Very. There is
no better way; in fact, there is no other way.
Not only does the Australian overseas receiving
“The Bulletin” keep in touch with national affairs, but
he breathes the wide open spaces and feels the sunshine
every time he opens an issue. Every overseas business
representative deserves this privilege. He can’t come to
Australia, so Uend Australia to him. He’ll appreciate it
more than that bonus I
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
ELSEWHERE
IN THIS ISSUE
c
prospects, although the first
quarter of the year opened well,
the Burlington board says that
“it is quite impossible to make
any reasonable forecast of the
future trend because of un-
certainty as to the effect on the
Australian market of Japanese
and other overseas competition,
but indications are that the near
months will be difficult. Orders
on hand for long - range
delivery, whilst below the figure
at this period last year, are
satisfactory.”
With full knowledge of this,
and with all its own directors
on the board of Burlington
(the secretary of each co. is
the same), Bradford Cotton has
thought fit to add to its holding
in Burlington to the point of
taking-on complete ownership
of the equity shares.
Though the purchase of the
jointly occupied Rutherford
freehold during the year may
have prompted this to an
extent, it would seem- also to
indicate that Bradford is not
particularly alarmed about the
threat of Japanese competition.
The Bradford board’s own
comment is:
An element of uncertainty, how-
ever, has been introduced as a result
of the Japanese trade-agreement.
There is no doubt that this com-
pany [Bradford Cotton]—as will be
the case with the industry generally
—will lose some business as the
result of Japanese competition, but
we have no means of knowing to
what extent our particular com-
pany will be affected. Both the
Prime Minister and the Hon. J.
McEwen, Minister for Trade, how-
ever, have given unqualified assur-
ances that no worth-while industry
will be seriously affected as the
result of the trade-agreement. We'
believe that this company qualifies
as being ‘worth while.’ ”
The board adds that a
perusal of a statement showing
the progress and development
of the co. over the past 25
years “must leave anybody
reading it with a feeling of
confidence in the future of our
company.”
Bradford Cotton shares have
been exceptionally weak at
345. 6d., compared with a
“high” of 435. 3d. earlier this
year. At the present price the
yield is attractive at 7.1 p.c.
But a cheaper way of obtaining
an interest in Bradford is to
buy Burlington ords. at 16s. 3d.
and convert into Bradford at a
cost (disregarding brokerage) of
about 325. 6d. a share.
Aliambata
[From L. Owen]
A LIAMBATA No. 1 well has
been drilling on the south
coast of Portuguese Timor, at
about Long. E., since
October 12, but no further com-
munication with reference to
the bore was released in Aus-
tralia until October 24, it being
stated that the delay was
beyond Timor Oil’s control.
This news is welcome as
this country is greatly
interested and possesses a not-
inconsiderable stake in the
enterprise.
The bore reached 620 ft. in
shale on October 22, after
having traversed limestone to
about 550 ft., and encountered
“some showings of oil above
390 ft.” Such shows are to be
expected, of course, in the
geological environment which
exists around Aliambata, and it
is rightly stressed in the report
that they are not of immediate
significance.
The unqualified broadcasting
of such almost inevitable
strikes, however, when they
have no commercial value, is
merely playing into the hands
of punters who buy oil shares
not to hold them, but with the
object of selling-out at every
crest and buying-in at every
depression. Such gambling can
only harm legitimate enterprise.
Timor Oil has plenty of
geological—and possibly other
—problems to face, and it is all
to the good that this first well
should proceed at a leisurely
pace with plenty of time to take
cores and to correlate the bore-
hole and surface observations.
Another important matter is
that every collectable sample
of petroleum should be
analysed with the object of
tracing the direction of migra-
tion of the oil.
This chemico - geological
research requires a very special
technique which is acquired
only by long experience in
“seepage” oilfields. It is often
costly and laborious and some-
times slow, but the time and
money spent may return
handsome dividends and, at the
worst, it will prevent avoidable
waste.
Unfortunately for Australia,
no attempt has been made to
apply this technique. Witness
Central Queensland, Gippsland
and South Australia, where all
the oil encountered has been
obviously of the long-migrated
type. in Westralia—where
Rough Range No. 1 hit a typical
fossil seep —the location of
“feeler” bores was not even
considered, so that no com-
parative chemical information
is available.
The nearest partial approach
to the technique has been in
Western Papua, where the Oil
Search, Ltd., group has moved
westwards, consistently, from
the VailaJa line of seepages,
originally named the “Vailala


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
£
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BAR RERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NBO - BAR-
rere acts like
a hand wh u n
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comtort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for Free Literature
Barrere Distribution Company
Dept. 3y, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
kup mom safe!
sofit l ti/
SANDERS#
<^fcFlLE|
Correspondence, invoices.'
statements, etc., filed in the
"Sanders’* can be secure!/
bound and converted into a
perfect booir of reference at
the *nd of each month —Of
an/ other period.
•< -
Prices and fufc
ther information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
OiuribaXing Ag**U—“
MKLBODRNI t , Norman Bros. Flf. LtA.
ADELAIDE , , , Vardan Price LtA
FERrU » « • Docket Book Cou (Aunt.)
Oilfield” and still (ironically?)
sometimes referred to as such.
Greater Union Theatres
■pOSSIBLE television competi-
-*■ tion is being seriously
studied by the management of
Greater Union Theatres in
view of the fact that there are
now about 150,000 licensed
TV-sets in use in Sydney and
Melbourne.
Whether TV had anything to
do with it or not it could
hardly have had much effect
up till then the annually-
increasing prosperity of Greater
Union had a check towards the
end of 1956. But its profits
were not far short of the
record established in 1955.
The first drive-in theatres in
N.S.W. began screening towards
the end of 1956, and G.U.I.
has an interest in some of these
—the Skyline drive-ins at Bass
Hill, Caringbah, Dilndas,
French’s Forest and North
Ryde, all in conjunction with
Consolidated Drive-in Theatres
Corp. Pty. Interests are also
held in Skyline drive-ins at
Lambton and Wollongong
(N.S.W.). The co. has other
interests in drive-ins in Vic-
toria, Queensland, W.A. and
S.A., as well as the A.C.T.
All these interests are in
addition to the co.’s major
interests —a chain of about 30
leading picture-theatres in every
capital-city of the Common-
wealth, as well as about 100
suburban theatres. In all,
G.U.T., either directly or by
way of association, is interested
in 147 theatres, including the
State theatres in Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide.
Greater Union is half-owned
(through its £400,000 ordinary
capital) by the Rank Group in
England, the other half being
in the control of Wests, Ltd.,
Greater J. D. Williams,
Spencer’s Pictures and Amal-
gamated Pictures, these Aus-
tralian-listed companies also
owning all the £500,000 of
preference capital. Between
them these Australian com-
panies own half the shares in
British Empire Films, Ltd.,
Rank Film Distributors of Aus-
tralia Pty., National Theatre
Supply Co., and Sixteen Milli-
metre Australia Pty. In each
case the Rank Group owns the
other 50 p.c. of the shares.
Greater Union owns all the
ords. in Union Theatres Invest-
ments, Ltd., Cinesound Produc-
tions and Automatic Film
Laboratories Pty.
For the year ended Decem-
ber 31, 1956, Greater Union
Theatres showed a consolidated
net profit of £262,216, com-
pared with £270,136 in the
preceding year. After deduct-
ing the proportion belonging to
outside shareholders of sub-
sidiary companies, the
remainder was £225,061,
compared with £231,830 and
£213,539 in the two preceding
years.
Consolidated net profit for
1956 was arrived at after
setting aside £200,000 for tele-
vision contingencies, the same
amount as in the preceding
year. The board considers
these provisions “prudent, and
indeed necessary.” The total
so provided to date is
£550,000.
The board reports that “the
flow of top-quality films from
the English studios has con-
tinued at an even rate through-
out the year, to the mutual
benefit of our companies and
the producing organisations.”
Of last year’s net profit, 5
p.c. to pref.-shareholders (Aus-
tralian public cos.) took
£25,000, and £62,500 went to
the same group on their ord.
shares, with another £62,500
to the Rank organisation.
The amount of dividends
received by each of the four
Australian public cos. was as
follows:
Ord. Pref.
Div. Div. Total.
£ "£ £
Wests .. 10.375 6,550 22.925
Greater J.D.W. 20.312 8,125 28,437
Spencer’s . . 16,688 6,675 23,303
Amalgamated.. 9,125 3,650 12,775
62,500 25,000 87,500
The Greater Union Group
presents a balance-sheet show-
ing paid capital to be £920,000
in £500,000 of pref. money and
£420,000 in ords. Capital
reserves total £544,507, general
reserves £203,159, p. and 1.
balances £1,021,381, provisions
for TV contingencies £550,000,
and interests of outside share-
holders in subsidiaries,
£553,101.
There has obviously been a
great fattening of the business
since the lean pre-war years.
Freeholds, including the State
theatres, are in mostly at pre-
war cost. Total fixed assets
appear at £5,115,697, against
which there is a depreciation
and amortisation reserve of
£1,589,384. Against the visible
reserved profits and obvious
inner strength there is £564,992
of intangibles.
But it is little wonder that
West’s and Amalgamated have
been able to pay 14 p.c. in
recent years, with 10 p.c. from
Greater J. D. Williams and 84
p.c. from Spencer’s. And this
after the operating co. had put
more to the reserve for combat-
ing TV than it distributed in
dividends to both Australian
and overseas shareholders.
The New 1.C.1. Building
CjLOWLY, but dramatically,
Sydney is acquiring a new
skyline after almost 20 years of
sameness.
Most of the change is taking
place along the foreshores of
the harbor; and, however
dramatic the new constructions
mav appear to the outsider
looking up, the effect is not
nearly so dramatic as the view
presented to the insider look-
ing out.
The new building of Imperial
Chemical Industries of Aus-
tralia and N.Z., Ltd., rises 11
stories into the sky on a site
at East Circular Quay which
for a century or more supported
nothing more attractive than
storehouses. In fact, all along
the eastern side of Circular
Quay, until the recent changes
began, the aspect was one of
ancient, weatherbeaten bond-
stores, bulk-stores,’ and old
storehouses converted into
motor-workshops, bulk wine-
cellars, etc.
But this week (October 31)
1.C.1. opens its new building,
to be followed later by the
Lever Bros, pile, and much
later (apparently) by the Opera
House.
The 1.C.1. building has a
frontage of 183 ft. both to
Circular Quay (11 floors) and to
Macquarie Street (nine floors),
and is 49ft. through. Because
of the relatively narrow width
and large area of window-
space, natural lighting is avail-
able in almost every part of
the building.
It is now clear that each of
Sydney’s several new buildings
has, or will have, its own
particular slant on the Harbor
City panorama.
From one aspect of the 1.C.1.
building the Harbor Bridge
stands massively and almost
square-on, but still towering
above the building; from
another aspect the uninter-
rupted view of the new
Quay railway and long
ribbon of elevated roadway
curving from the bridge to
the Conservatorium of Music
is almost dominating in its
geometrical sweep ; from the
roof it would seem that a stone
could be almost thrown on
Government House, sitting in
dignity in its own wide grounds;
then (another surprise) from 11
stories up it is realised that
Observatory Hill is still higher
than the 1.C.1. roof.
The building is modernly
fitted, with demountable office-
partitions, elaborate air-condi-
tioning and insulation of
window - areas, inter - office
communication - tubes (for
letters, memos., small parcels,
etc.), teleprinters connected to
factories and warehouses, a
laboratory, a multitude of staff
amenities, and a theatrette
for business and recreation
purposes.
The building brings under
one roof all the previously
scattered business and
administrative offices of 1.C.1.
in N.S.W. Also, three floors
of the building have already
been let to other tenants.
Some of the most attractive
furniture in the building was
designed by Mr. Ward, of the
Australian National University,
Canberra, and made in Sydney
by Edward Hill.
Under the building, which
cost £1,250,000, there is space
for 70 cars.
1.C.1. products were used
extensively in the interior
fittings, including Vynex on
some wall-partitions. Terylene
has been used for curtains
because it resists the effects of
sunlight—and there is a lot of
sunlight in this building.
On the landings of every
floor there are garden-boxes,
and more gardens fronting
Macquarie Street.
In one plot a rubber plant
was seen to be flourishing
among the orchids and
monsteras. It is not a synthetic-
rubber plant.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
C on temporaries
The Contemporary Art
Society exhibition at the
N. S. Wales Education Depart-
ment Galleries solves at least
one problem which has exer-
cised this commentator for
years: namely, that if the art
of Sali Herman has revealed to
us charm and color in the
ancient stone tenements of
Woolloomooloo, how long is
it going to be before someone
finds a similarly unexpected
charm in later Sydney architec-
ture —the massed horror of the
later- Victorian apartment-
houses, marching side by side
in their stucco in Victoria
Street and Paddington and
North Sydney?.
George Laszlo, presumably a
New Australian, has the
answer. His “Paddington” may
not lae a great painting ; but it
is fair enough, very fetching in
its hot pinks and golds; and
there is no doubt that, in a
work of art, the most hideous
row of Paddington apartment-
houses looks charming. We
live, unawares, in Paradise.
The exhibition has - another
unexpected interest in 4hat it
contains two paintings which
were inspected by the police
and, to their credit, are still
hanging. Why anybody should
have been distressed by the man
in the bathing-costume passes
comprehension: it is painted
in a somewhat macabre form of
caricature, very Middle
European, but whoever saw
anything otherwise wrong with
it must have had X-ray eyes.
The other work which the
police so creditably let pass,
Clifton Pugh’s “A Woman and
a Cat,” is a most harmless
nude. In fact it is chiefly
interesting as demonstrating
how very harmless, because of
their shallow, posterlike tech-
nique, some of the con-
temporaries are forced to be.
In mood and subject it is
exactly the same as that superb
Belgian painting “Les Felins”
which for years has nestled
tranquilly in the N. S. Wales
National Gallery; but the
Belgian painting, because the
woman is alive and the flesh
is painted with subtlety, is
infinitely the more sensual of
the two.
-In general the exhibition is
nominated by the ingenious but
unemotional abstracts or semi-
abstracts of Thomas Gleghorn,
“Moods of a City,” so that —
with others of the same kind—
it looks like a display of
industrial blueprints.
There is an attractive soft-
ness—if they don’t look too
much like dress-materials —in
the impressions of “Autumn”
and “Evensong” by Sheila Mc-
Donald. Theo Scott has some
imperial penguins, llse Tauber
a lavish “Back Street” in the
colors of Max Feuerring, Elwyn
Lynn’s “Evening Still Life” is
a forceful bit of architecture,
John Perceval’s “Wambi
Gorge” is in his usual flam-
boyant manner* and there is
also something to look at in the
paintings by G. Marjason,
Carl Plate, H. Kenneth Cook,
Malcolm A. Carbins and the
Queenslanders Joy Roggen-
kamp and Ron Jago.
Ten-guinea Paintings
The holding of the exhibi-
tion of paintings at ten-
guineas and under at David
Jones’ Gallery, Sydney, with-
out the limitation on size that
is often set in shows of this
kind, has had two curious
effects.
On the one hand there are
very few, if any, of those
“gems” which you get when
all the paintings are small —
the notes and sketches by
major painters which are
often livelier than their bigger
works; the abstract and
surrealist paintings nearly
always improved by compres-
sion because most artists
usually paint larger than their
talent; the minute felicities or
accidents of which even the
most minor artists are capable.
But on the other hand, not
because artists like to give
bargains but because they
don’t like to exhibit inferior
“This contemporary-style furniture seems to suit my personality ."
work even at a lowered price,
the general standard of the
exhibition is surprisingly high.
Most of the paintings here
would be double the price in
any other exhibition. For
instance, who ever heard of
getting a Murch for ten-
guineas? Or a Wakelin?
If there is a small “gem” to
be found W. H. Hibble’s “Tree
Dance” is as near as any. And
for the rest, amongst bargains
much too numerous to men-
tion, there are Kenneth Jack’s
tinted drawings, Yvonne Du
Moulin’s banksias and the
paintings by R. Zusters, Roty
de Fodone, Elaine Coghlan,
Molly Flaxman, Miriam Mox-
ham, Margaret Coen’ Isabel
MacKenzie and Dora Toovey.
Stage and Music
The Moon and Wirth’s
Goodness knows why the
scientists are so anxious to find
out what is happening on the
other side of the moon. They
could scarcely expect, for
instance, to find five ferocious
kings of the jungle cavorting,
posing and leaping gracefully
through hoops under the
benign direction of Mr. Mervyn
King, Australia’s foremost
lion-tamer. Nor could they
expect to see Mile. Elizabethe
doing her daring cloud-swing
in crimson tights in the rarified
lunar atmosphere. And could
they possibly hope to find the
lunar craters alive with per-
forming elephants, or educated
goats, or Pallenberg’s bears,
or Mr. Kuhne’s lovely horses,
all displaying as njuch intelli-
gence and much more skill than
most human beings?
And they would be most
surprised if they saw the five
Flying Escalantes swinging
from one mountain peak to
another, or if three deadpan-
faced deadbeats in sloppy pants
met them on arrival and intro-
duced themselves as the Hartz
Brothers from Denmark.
The fact is that the scientists
would be astounded if they
met a blowfly on the moon, so
it is hard to understand why
on earth they want to go there,
when all the abovementioned


interesting objects can be
encountered nightly at Wirth’s
Olympia, Melbourne, for the
modest expenditure of a few
bob and a pleasant walk across
the Yarra.
Mr. King even rides one of
his big cats, to the prolonged
applause of all the assembled
kids, who don’t care two hoots
what is happening on the
moon.
❖ ❖ ❖
*‘Cat on a Hot Tin Roof”
Give Tennessee Williams a
large enough slice of the com-
munity and he’ll tell you what’s
wrong with it. But don’t ask
him what should be done
about it. He hasn’t a clue.
That is the position reached
in his “Cat on a Hot Tin
Roof,” currently aired by the
Union Reps, at the Melbourne
University Union Theatre.
Williams, an artist in dialogue
and action, is concerned with
life’s everlasting problems—
the conflicts of sex, ignorance,
depravity, fear, wealth and
poverty —and he handles them
surely, with sympathy and
feeling.
His characters are more than
social symbols ; they are
breathing human beings. Their
actions, however, don’t leave
much hope for the future.
Williams’s outlook on life is
inveterately pessimistic, and
although we know his people
will live on, reproduce, be
happy and angry, we can’t help
wondering, “But why, and for
what useful reason?” In fact,
Williams’s play asks itself that
question, which is rather tire-
some and makes one want
more than ever to hear from a
playwright who has some
answers.
Wal Cherry’s production is
excellent. The middle act —
mainly taken up with a
dialogue between Big Daddy,
a strong - willed, self - made
millionaire plantation-owner,
and his son Brick, who is an
alcoholic and has lost all faith
in life because of the world’s
censorship of his “deep and
noble” love for his male foot-
balling friend Skipper—is prob-
ably one of the best things
Williams has done. It is
handled with extraordinary skill
bv Wyn Roberts, as Brick, and
Noel Ferrier, as Big Daddy.
The play begins in the bed-
sitting-room of the plantation
home in the Mississippi Delta.
This scene, which probably
shocked some members of the
audience because of its frank-
ness, introduces Brick and his
childless wife, Margaret.
Margaret is eaten up with her
inability to bear a child to
Brick. Brick has no desire for
his wife, and every attempt she
makes to solve their emotional
conflict is thwarted by an angry
drunken tirade from the
husband.
Big Daddy’s family has
gathered around the planta-
tion to wait for the old man’s
death and cash-in on his
money. Big Daddy has cancer,
but the doctors have let him
go to spend his last hours with
his family under the impres-
sion that he has a mild spastic
colon. He has his illusion
shattered when the drunken
Brick accidentally reveals the
truth.
The play is possibly unique
in having two final acts, one
the author’s and the other
wished on him by the Broad-
way producer who wanted a
happy ending. The Union did
the unusual thing by presenting
both acts on alternate evenings.
Sets and lighting were good,
Patricia Connolly was moving
as Brick’s wife, and Margaret
Wolfit impressive as “Big
Mama.”
M. G. S.
"... and thank you for explaining it all to me.”
Portrait of a Pro.
„ [From London]
The young actor-dramatist
John Osborne is the English
Stagp Company’s most notable
discovery. Not only are his
two plays of dominant origi-
nality but the central character
of each has proved so incisive
as to stamp his name and
character indelibly in the
annals of the English theatre.
This is no light distinction for
a dramatist, old or new.
Jimmie Porter, the angry
young man,-will soon be shout-
ing his ceaseless and (to at
least one angry listener) in-
sufferably tiresome impreca-
tions on Broadway as well as
in Sloane Square. And Archie
Rice, the broken-down music-
hall pro., has reappeared at
the huge Palace Theatre for a
short season no less clamorous
than that of his debut at the
Royal Court last April.
“The Entertainer,” although
written earlier, is a better-
balanced play than “Look
Back in Anger.” Since the
present is a time of famine in
the theatre its dynamism is
welcome, even though the
succor it brings is heady and
gin-sodden, like a wild party
after a desultory period of
boredom. But the experience,
nonetheless, is unique, exciting
and unforgettable.
This play is a series of
episodes, expressed as music-
hall acts and cunningly alter-
nating between the stage of a
woebegone seaside theatre and
professional “digs.” Thus we
see Archie both publicly and
privately. Whether he is
punching out his forlorn
routines and stale gags or flip-
pantly cavorting before his odd,
unhappy family, the result is
the same —“twopennorth of
nothing” (his daughter’s
description of him) vainly try-
ing to cope with life, failing
sadly, and taking refuge in
beer, women, and a thin veneer
of bounce.
Laurence Olivier’s entrance,
hideously made-up as a light
comedian, and his vocal and
choreographical burlesque are
breathtaking. In a mere
second he establishes Archie’s
“The Queen and the
Rebels”
Joan Whalley's recent
London experience showed to
advantage in her production
of Ugo Betti's “The Queen and
the Rebels” for Brisbane's
Twelfth Night Theatre.
The plot would be too melo-
dramatic for a novel, and too
static for a movie, but it adds
up to,a tremendously satisfying
theatre-piece.
The cringing queen, reduced
by sheer terror to an animal
ethic of avoidance of pain,
contrasts with the
growing realisation of the
prostitute that never in her life
will such a moment come again
as this hour in which her pro-
fessional aggressiveness is mis-
taken for regal dignity, right
to the point of anarchists’ rifles.
Gwen Wheeler’s performance
as the prostitute was very close
to true humanism ; and if the
superb performance of Dawn
Rees as the distraught queen
lacked variety, that perhaps is
the very point of Betti’s con-
ception of the role. Hugh
Curnow, as the interpreter, had
a part that suited him and
marred its tailoring by just the
occasional Yul Brynner strut;
he has a natural stage-presence.
The sets by Quentin ' Hole
were further evidence of the
future ahead of this designer.
VAL VALLIS.


MARRICKVILLE HOLDINGS LIMITED
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS
Address by the Chairman , Mr. R. C. Crebbin , at the General Meeting of
Shareholders on 24th October , 1957 . '
You have agreed to take the Report and Balance
Sheet as read, and before moving their adoption I
would like to give you some additional information of
the year's activities.
The consolidated net profit for the year at
£297,458 is an increase of £36,808 over last year’s
figure of £260,650 and represents a record in
earnings reported. This figure has been arrived at
after writing off depreciation amounting to
£140,406 sand after providing £327,753 for income
" tax.
This satisfactory result is very gratifying to your
Board, and will no doubt be very pleasing to all share-
holders. After covering dividends paid, it permits
further handsome increases in reserves, and as you
will see from the Report an amount of £140.000 has
been transferred to the General Reserves of the
Subsidiaries.
The policy of modernisation and development
which has been followed since the incorporation of this
Company in 1951 has been continued, and there is
progressive improvement in the accommodation of our
factories and Branches and in the efficiency of our
equipment.
The new boiler house at Marrickville, which has
been erected at a cost of over £140.000, is now almost
complete, and this fine installation will increase produc-
tive capacity while reducing operating costs.
Following the recent construction of a new main
factory building at Marrickville for Nut Foods Pty.
Ltd., the buildings formerly utilised by that Company
are being extensively remodelled for use as a margarine
manufacturing department. The resultant re-arrange-
ments will enable an improved layout of other
manufacturing sections and enlargement of store areas.
Major extensions have been completed at the
Brisbane factory of Nut Foods Pty. Ltd., which will
facilitate operations and increase the capacity of this
plant. A large new store has been constructed and new
equipment has been installed at the comparatively new
factory of Marrickville Margarine (Qld.) Pty. Ltd. at
Cannon Hill, Queensland.
The Newcastle factory of Nut Foods Pty. Ltd.
has also been extended to provide much needed manu-
facturing and storage capacity. Nut Foods Pty. Ltd.
has also established a Sales Branch in Perth; this
Branch is progressing satisfactorily.
In Melbourne and Adelaide, as stated in the Report,
premises have become entirely inadequate, and to
relieve this position it is urgent that new premises be
constructed on the adequate areas of land already
owned in both these cities.
In view of the construction in progress at Interstate
factories and Branches and the plans for further
improvements at Marrickville. increased funds are
essential if costly delays are to be avoided. This is
particularly so in the construction of the new Melbourne
and Adelaide factories.
After considering these and other needs, your
Directors decided that in the best interests of the
Company and its shareholders an issue of additional
Ordinary Shares should be made.
It was decided that these new shares should be
issued at par in the proportion of three for every ten
shares held, making a total increase in capital of
£291,375.
Notices giving the terms and details of the issue
are going out to shareholders today. These will be
enclosed with the cheques for the proposed final
dividend, which we will ask shareholders to approve
later in the meeting.
The volume of trading by the Subsidiary
Companies was very satisfactory during the year
covered by the accounts. It has continued equally
satisfactory up to date, and all present indications
are that the pleasing results and steady expansion
of recent years will continue.
The plant development that has been carried
out gives us the capacity to handle the increases in
turnover which we expect, and we look forward
with confidence, to maintaining a strong position in
those industries in which we are engaged.
The Management, Staff and Employees in the
various Works, Offices and Sales Branches of your
Companies have given excellent service throughout the
year and have maintained the high standard Which we
have come to expect. Their part in the progress of
the organisation is fully appreciated by the Members
of the Board, and I am •sure this feeling of appreciation
is shared by all shareholders.
R. C. CREBBIN.
Chairman of Directors.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman) F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO RALPH JOHN THORNHILL late of
13 Princess Street Rose Bay.—TAKE
NOTICE that JUDITH ANN THORN-
HILL has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3027 of 1957 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 31st December 1957
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from PISK, STOKES & CO.,
Solicitors, of 16 O’Connell Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGH AN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LANCELOT ARTHUR ELLIOTT
formerly of 7 St. Georges Road Bexley'
in the State of New South Wales and
now of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE
that IVY JANE ELLIOTT has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4529 of 1956
on the grounds of desertion for three
years without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Office Supreme
Court Sydney on or before the Bth
day of January 1958 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
F. A. FINN, ROACHE & CO., Solicitors,
66. King Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
KUCHING'S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
■ ■■■-
f *
'lf
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
character and at the same time
exposes the meretricious empti-
ness of road-shows and their
audiences, with their depend-
ence on nudity and bad taste.
Something of this forced bon-
homie pervades his home life, if
such it could be- called, where
he insults his old father, wise-
cracks with his son about
promiscuity, makes drunken
confessions to his daughter and
alternately neglec t.s a*n d
humors his anxious, simple-
minded wife. For this per-
formance there is no other
word tham terrific: his Hamlet,
Henry V, Antony and Titus
Andronicus were half-cock by
comparison.
Except for Brenda de
Banzie’s wife (a beautifully
restrained study of simple
devotion, thwarted affection and
gin-released mental agony) the
acting, though sufficient, cannot
avoid being overshadowed.
If subtler than it might seem,
the play has no great depth
and, with clever effects and
pointless—occasionally shock-
ing—incongruities, reflects this
author’s natural talent and
-fixed prejudices. In so far as
the coarseness, smuttiness and
bad language are of the level
that obtains when men are
alone together, it is also a
man’s play. But, clearly, such
segregation is not the rule in
the free-and-easy atmosphere
of the music-hall.
*X* *> +>
William Clauson in Brisbane
The strains of a rehearsal of
Honegger’s “King David” from
the basement-depths of the
Brisbane City Hall put a slight
chill on the informality of a>
ballad - recital by William
Clauson. Or was it that recitals
take some time to warm up,
anyway? Clauson did not
really get across to his audience
until the end of the first half,
when he began to sing haunt-
ing songs from Chile and
Peru. Then he and his guitar
were no longer dwarfed by the
giant organ-pipes of the hall,
and the intimacy that the
recital had lacked was instantly
created.
The mystery and charm of
these South American songs
quite outdid the rest of the
programme. Clauson covered
the territory usually explored
by balladists. His English songs
were sung without the marked
American accent of Burl Ives,
and he had a ready brogue for
the Irish songs. Yet it was
clear enough that the songs
from Mexico and regions
south had taken his imagina-
tion, and he communicated
their Spanish strangeness fault-
lessly, even to the extent of
making the audience accom-
pany him.
These songs will make his
concerts remembered along-
side those of Sidney Mac Ewan,
Thea Rowe and Burl Ives, each
of whom had a peculiar dis-
tinctiveness of programme-
arrangement and style.
Clauson also sang some
Australian songs, rather shyly
at first because he had to face
q churlish attack from a local
balladman for daring to do
so. Yet if the rest of the
ballad - loving world hears
about the old bush billy or
“Waltzing Matilda” from him
it will be with as strong a
degree of authenticity as a
stranger can command. In
other words, he sang them with
a gusto that sounded just right
for their easy tunefulness.
D.J.M.
Films
“An Affair to Remember”
Leo McCarey, who made the
original version of this delight-
ful serio-comedy a couple of
decades ago, when it appeared
as “Love Affair,” is also
responsible for the remake,
which, unusually, is superior to
the original.
The present team of Cary
Grant and Deborah Kerr has
an edge on Charles Boyer and
Irene Dunne. Miss Kerr, in
particular, shines, and both she
and Grant salt their verbal
exchanges in the shipboard
sequences with some attractive
bantering. The dialogue has
wit and polish.
The story is about a night-
club singer and a promising
but lazy painter who meet on
the transatlantic liner carry-
ing them to New York, where
each is to wed into wealth.
Casual acquaintance develops
into love, but before parting
they agree to stall-off their
present commitments for six
months to see how they feel at
the end of that period. The
events flowing from this resolve
give the latter part of the film
its touches of drama.
Supporting the good work
of the principals is Cathleen
Nesbitt in a neat characterisa-
tion as Grant’s Italian grand-
mother, who lives with her
memories and baroque knick-
knacks in her Mediterranean
villa.
At Sydney Century,
❖ * *
“The Great Locomotive
Chase”
Bunch of damned Yankee
spies, suh, endeavor to wreck
General Robert E. Lee’s lines-
of-communication by pinching
a train and making a dash for
Chattanooga, and trying to
pull up rails and burn bridges
behind ’em. Might have suc-
ceeded, too, suh, but for gallant
train-conductor William Fuller,
who in best tradition of
Southern bravery, suh, and in
face of hopeless odds, foiled
the dastards —Ah said dastards,
suh.
Mighty fine Southern gen’l-
man, this Mister Fuller, suh —
shakes hands with leader of
spies jus’ befo’ they string him
up. Mister Walt Disney, who
made the film, mighty fine
gen’l’man, too, suh, for show-
ing Southerners up in such
good light, as well as providing
some excitement with his loco-
motive chasings all over
Tennessee and points south,
suh.
You may see the film, suh,
at Sydney Palace.
♦♦♦ *t* ***
“Tip on a Dead Jockey”
An ex-pilot (U.S. Air Force)
who lost his nerve in Korea
goes to live in Madrid instead
of going home to his wife.
While there he is approached
by an oily gent, with charming
manners to smuggle English
currency out of Cairo by air.
Knowing his weakness, he
passes the job over to his
buddy ; then, thinking of what
might be the fate of the buddy’s
bewchus Spanish wife and
child, he decides to take over
the assignment himself.
The plot has more holes in
it than a colander, one of the
largest being the strange
indulgence with which the
international police view his
escapade simply because, in a
fit of pique, he tips ’em off
about the heroin the villain had
unsportingly packed in among
the fiddlies.
Robert Taylor does little
more than register grim-lipped
determination. Dorothy
Malone, as his understanding
wife, overdoes the sidelong-
glance stuff upon which her
acting technique seems to be
based.
At Sydney St. James.


A MESSAGE TO EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES
• m m
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
THB HON.
T. A. J. PLAYFATR.
M.L.0.-, chairman;
SIR EDWARD R. KNOX,
vice-chairman;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
JOHN DARLING:
A. G. AKMTTAGE.
MANAGING bikeqtob.
W. S. MATTHEWS.
MANAGER.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) can be of assistance to you
YOU may find that you have been appointed as Executor
and Trustee of a Will without any knowledge of the
fact until the death of the Will-maker.
Before embarking on your onerous duties (or even after you
have them), it may pay you to have an interview
with Perpetual Trustee Co. Ltd., with a view to transferring
your responsibilities to the Company. This can be quite
simply arranged, and you will be immediately freed from
the irksome tasks which faced you.
Full information on the subject will be freely given on
application. Why not telephone 80377 and make an
appointment for the purpose? A Senior Officer will always
be available to interview you. If you prefer, ask that a
copy of the Company’s help-
ful booklet, “Your Executor
and Trustee,” be posted free
to you.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others, Administrator, etc.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY OFFICES AT ORANGE A TAMWORTH
perpetual
TRUSTEE COMPANY
(CANBERRA) LTD,
INDUSTRY HOUSK
NATIONAL CIRCUIT
CANBERRA
LOCAL DIRECTORS IN ADDI-
TION TO THOSE DIRECTORS
MENTIONED AT THE LEFT :
WABBEN D. MCDONALD,
0.8. E., TIOB-CH AIRMAN
8: a. MeFABLANE. 0.M.0.
NEVILLE C. MILSON
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
Y\7ITH a generally strong demand for
’ * wool, a growing wool-clip and a
succession of good seasons in its favor,
this well-established woolbroker has
made substantial progress over the past
decade.
Shareholders have put up a large part
of the funds needed to expand the
business, paid capital jumping from
£550,000 to £1,667,667 since 1948, but
reserves have increased at almost the
same brisk rate as capital.
Further expansion is planned, and the
co. raised £416,667 of fresh capital early
in the current term, along with £104,162
in premiums, offering £1 ords. to share-
holders (one-for-three) at a 25 p.c.
premium. Cash-issues in 1951 and 1955
carried premiums of 50 p.c. and 25 p.c.
respectively..
Stock-and-station agent, merchant and
pastoral financier —as well as woolbroker
—Winchcombe, Carson confines its
activities to N.S.W. and Queensland. One
of the largest sellers of the staple in
both those States, the co. handles over
7 p.c. of all wool sold in Australia,
operating at Sydney, Brisbane and New-
castle wool-sales. Headquarters are in
Sydney, and with the opening of a branch
at Quilpie (Q.) last year- there are now
16 branches in Queensland and 12 in
central and northern N.S.W.
A record 4,886,561 bales were
knocked down to buyers at Aus-
tralian wool-sales last season,
Winchcombe, Carson accounting for
355,340 bales to better the previous
term’s performance (a record) by 44,394
bales. Livestock sales also increased,
the following table showing sales of
wool, sheep and cattle over the past five
years:
Wool
(Bales). Sheep.* Cattle.*
1953 ~ 286,684 338,330 37,292
1954 .. .. 300,206 384,335 35,664
1955 .. .. 298,399 319,106 35,664
1956 .. .. 310,946 246,672 33,479
1957 .. .. 355,340 253,052 38,498
* Metropolitan areas Sydney and Brisbane only.
A higher turnover in station-produce
also helped to swell income, while
machinery sales and general merchandis-
ing reached a “very satisfactory level,”
particularly in Queensland, property sales
being “well maintained.”
The average price of greasy wool rose
by 18.2 d. a pound to 79.66 d. a pound
.last season, helping to fatten the co.’s
earnings, and with advances to clients,
etc., up by £270,252, at £5,150,594, net
profit worked out at £226,408, or £25,990
higher than in the ’56 term, despite an
increase in operating costs:
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1950.. 111,411 lOp.c. = 60,000 51,411 677,845
1951.. 183,927 12* „ „ 99,231 84,696 762,541
Share premiums, £lOO,OOO .. .. 862,641
1952.. 142,959 10 p.c. = 90,000 52,959 915,500
1953.. 175,979 10 „ „ 100,000 75,979 991,479
Tax overprovided, £30,000 .. ..1,021,479
1954.. 211,475 12 Jp.c.= 125,000 86,475 1,107,954
Share premiums, £62,500 .. .. 1,170,454
1955.. 205,079 124p.c.= 132,813 72,266 1,242,720
1956.. 200,418 11*,, ~140,625 59,793 1,302,513
Share premiums, £10,707 .. .. 1,313,220
1957.. 226,408 12* p.c.= 156,250 70,158 1,383,378
* Alter deducting goodwill, £41,983 at 30/6/’57.
The cut in the div.-rate (from 12| p.c.
to 11J p.c.) made in the previous year
was restored, the 12| p.c. div. bringing
the average rate over the last 10 years
to 10.8 p.c., share-premiums reducing the
net return to shareholders. Claimed after
providing £39,160 for depreciation (up
£4065) and an undisclosed amount for
taxation, the earnings equalled 18.1 p.c.
on ord. capital, compared with 16, 19.2,
21.1 and 17.5 p.c. in the four years back
to 1953. The return from average share-
holders’ funds was a moderate 8.6 p.c.
Current liabilities and provisions,
including a £1,255,327 overdraft (down
£352,259), accounted for over 60 p.c. of
the balance-sheet totals at June 30 last,
but just exactly what has gone into the
£2,881,299,(up £798,886) shown against
“sundry credits, current accounts and
sales open” is not made clear in the
published accounts, although it apparently
includes the provision for tax. The new
capital has in any case altered the balance
between shareholders’ and outside money
in the current term:
1955. 1956. 1957.
Capital .. .. £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,292,827*
Reserves .. .. 1,284,703 1,344,496 1,425,361*
Overdraft .. 947,403 1,607,586 1,255,327
Creditors, etc. .. 2,904,812 2,082,413 2,881,299
Final div. .. 82,813 78,125 93,750
£6,469,731 £6,362,620 £6,948,564
Freeholds ' .. 799,510 952,078 1,203,991
Plant .. .. 154,086 165,149 201,669
Investments ~ 7,843 7,755 7,755
Stocks .. .. 333,259 315,313 342,572
Advances, etc. 5,133,050 4,880,342 5,150,594
Goodwill .. 41,983 41,983 41,983
£6,469,731 £6,362,620 £6,948,564
* Includes application money or premiums relating
to shares allotted in the current term.
A new wool-store was completed at
Brisbane during the year, and extensions
to another store in that city are in
progress, approximately £327,000 going
into fixed assets last term, depreciation
leaving the addition in the accounts at
£288,433. Stocks increased by £27,259
to £342,572.
Bids for the co.’s f.-p. £1 ords. rose
to 48s. 6d. shortly before the announce-
ment of the new issue, recent sales
bringing 435. 6d. to return £5 14s. lid.
p.c. from a 12} p.c. div. Net tangible
backing (June 30 last) was 375. 9d. The
new scrip participates in all divs. paid
from the current term’s earnings, a
continued 12} p.c. div. calling for
£208,458, or £17,950 less than last term's
showing.
Although comparable with those ruling
12 months ago, wool prices have eased
in the current season, and, with near-
drought conditions existing in certain
woolgrowing districts (particularly in
N.S.W.), a reduction in both the wool-
clip and the wool-cheque seems probable.
Containers, Ltd.
“CARNINGS of the big Containers
group tend to vary with changes in
seasonal as well as trading conditions —
fruit- and vegetable-canners being amongst
its largest customers —but the movement
last term was in the right direction, net
profit jumping by almost 24 p.c.
Cost of tinplate, the group’s main raw
material, rose by approximately 10 p.c.


during the term with a consequent effect
on selling-prices, but the introduction of
new plant and the reorganisation of a
major manufacturing division enabled
some improvement in operating efficiency.
Demand for cans, affected early in the
term by adverse weather conditions,
strengthened later in the year, group-
profit rising by £122,772 to £639,872 after
providing £453,970 (up £12,073) for taxa-
tion and £296,660 (up £75,459) for
depreciation:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
f Dividends ——To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. serves.*
5 p.c. 6 p.c. \ -
£ £ £ £ £
Tax overprovided, £65,261 .. .. 380,815
Profit sale assets, £l7 .. .. •• 380,832-
Share-premiums, £114,344 .. .. 495,176
Share-issue expenses, £27,280 .. 467,896
Net reduction reserves, £268 .. 467,628
1953.. 213,565 37,500 153,003 23,062 490,690
Tax overprovided, £9552 .. .. 500,242
Loss sale assets, £1358 .. .. 498,884
Goodwill written-off, £14,019.. .. 484,865
74 p-c.
1954.. 457,766 37,500 219,508 200,698 685,563
Tax overprovided, £B2B .. .. 686,391
Profit sale assets, £1245 .. .. 687,636
Goodwill written-off, £4600 .. .. 683,036
8 p.c.
1955.. 538,704 37,500 235,806 205,398 948,434
Profit sale assets, £5682 .. .. 954,116
Tax overprovided, £12,403 .. .. 966,519
Share premiums, £6BB .. .. .. 967,207
Unexplained reduction, £57 .. .. 967,150
Share issue expenses, £43,686 .. 923,464
Pre-acquisition profits not available for
distribution, £36,181 .. .. 887,283
5 & 64 p.c.
1956.. 517,100 47,952 298,896 170,252 1,057,535
Share premiums, £775 .. .. 1,058,310
Profit sale assets, £6455 .. .. 1,064,765
Tax overprovided, £14,200.. .. 1,078,965
To prov. long-service leave, £41,000. . 1,037,965
Goodwill written-pff, etc., £5067 .. 1,032,898
1957.. . 639,872 70,000 365,855 20470 1 7 1,23 6,91-5
'* Subject to intangibles, £149,716 at 30/6/’57.
A larger share of the profit went to service
the pref. capital (increased in the pre-
ceding term), the balance representing a
showing of 12.4 p.c. on the higher average
Ord. capital, compared with 12.5, 17, 14.3
and 6.9 p.c. back to 1953. The return
from average shareholders’-funds was
practically unchanged at 9.1 p.c. Undis-
tributed profits were drawn on to the
extent of £41,000 to provide for accrued
long-service leave.
Formed by the merger of a number of
leading can-manufacturers in 1949,- the
Containers group is the largest organisa-
tion of its kind in Australia, turning-out
an extensive range of tinplate and fibre
cans, screw-caps, closures, cartons, and
flexible packaging-materials, as well as
undertaking tin-printing and -lacquering
and label-printing. The group operates
plants in all States except Queensland,
but most of its 20 factories are in Vic-
toria and N.S.W.
For several years the parent, Con-
tainers, Ltd., functioned only as a
holding-co., owning all the ord. capital
of Union Can Co., Southern Can Co.,
J. T. Picken and Sons, Dominion Can
Co., Fibre Can Co. and James Marsh
and Sons ; but in 1953 it became the main
operating unit, taking over the manufac-
turing and trading activities of its
subsidiaries.
Since then Containers has invested
heavily in new plant and freeholds and
at the same time added to its string of
subsidiaries, the purchase of T. Dawson
and Sons (N.S.W.) and Paul Bruce and
Co. (Vic.) in 1953 being followed by the
acquisition of a can-manufacturing busi-
ness in Perth, and, in 1956, by the
exchange of 542,931 f.-p. £1 ords. for
the £401,897 paid capital of Chas. Steele
and Co. (Holdings), manufacturer of
flexible packaging-materials.
Venturing further into the plastics field
last term, the co. obtained a majority
shareholding in Casecraft Pty., Victorian
producer of rigid and semi-rigid plastic
containers.
This vigorous growth has been financed
largely by fresh share-capital, supple-
mented by bank-credit, paid capital more
than doubling over the last five years.
The last issue to shareholders was in 1956
when 1,034,275 £1 ords. were offered at
par, another £500,000 of pref. capital
being raised in the same year by the
issue of 6i p.c. preis., redeemable after
1971 at a premium of 2s. 6d. per share.
At June 30 last paid capital totalled
£5,841,189, 5 p.c. prefs. accounting for
£750,000 and the 6i p.c. prefs. for
£500,000. Ord. shareholders received
their first div. (6| p.c.) in 1951, 8 p.c.
divs. in each of the last three terms lifting
the average rate for the seven years to a
shade over 7.3 p.c.
The late canning- and packing-season
left the co. carrying £1,761,338 (up
£453,960 or 34.9 p.c.) in book-debts at
the end of the term, and, although the
carryover of raw materials from the
previous year was “greater than antici-
pated,” there was a small (£254,258) in-
crease in stocks. Expenditure on plant,
freeholds, etc., was in the vicinity of
£580,000, and, after allowing for depreci-
ation, a net £280,348 was added to the
book-value of fixed assets (partly valu-
ation but mainly cost less depreciation):
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 195 G. 1957.
Pref. .. .. £750.000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Ord 2,947,583 4,475,778 4,591,189
Reserves .. .. 948,434 1,057,535 1,236,915
Outside interests 10,529 74,044 27,938
Mortgage . . 55,183 333,931
Overdraft .. 1,999,919 1,107,270 1,336,289
Creditors . . ,651,030 1,001,895 1,197,066
Tax provision . . 357,679 442.270 453,970
Final divs. .. 136,653 210,194 218,647
£7,801,827 £9,674,169 £10,645,945
Land, buildings.. 1,369,604 1,838,757 2,005,536
Plant, machinery 1,465,423 2,130,297 2,249,866
Investments .. 27,501 54,846 52,778
Stocks .. .. 3,661,210 4,168,899 4,423,157
Debtors ~ .. 1,089,716 1,307,378 1,761,338
Cash, etc. .. 34,194 29,802 3,554
Intangibles ~ 154,179 138,190 149,716
£7,801,827 £9,674,169 £10,645,945
To assist in financing these movements
the co. borrowed a further £278,748 under
mortgage, stretched its overdrafts by
£229,019, and finished the term owing
creditors an extra £195,171. There was
only a small variation in working-capital
(down £41,121 at £2,648,146).
The first deliveries' of locally produced
tinplate were received from B.H.P. early
in the current term, but, while the cost
of the local product is a “little” under
that of imported material of comparable
quality, the margin, according to the
board, is less than was hoped for. The
cost of tinplate cans in relation to the
value of goods packed therein is causing
the co. to investigate the use of substitute
materials (including plastics). To date,
however, tinplate remains the most satis-
factory material for packaging a wide
range of liquid and semi-liquid products,
and the production of beer-cans is
scheduled to commence later this year.
A continuation of the dry-weather con-
ditions experienced over a large part of
Australia in recent months could reduce
the amount of fruit and vegetables
available for canning later in the year, but
operations in the first quarter of the
current term are regarded as “satisfac-
tory” by the board.
At 265. 9d. the f.-p. £1 ords. would
return £5 19s. Bd. p.c. from a continued
8 p.c. div., the 6\ p.c. redeemable prefs.
yielding £6 Os. lid. p.c. at 21s. 6d. Both
classes of pref. |hare rank equally for
return of capital, consolidated accounts
showing a net tangible backing of
£5 10s. lOd. for the prefs. and 245. 9d.
for the ords.
A.R.C. Industries, Ltd.
TTHE directors of A.R.C. Industries,
Ltd., followed-up their rejection of a
take-over bid from Cyclone Co. of Aus-
tralia, Ltd., last term with the announce-
ment of a one-for-one bonus-issue, sub-
stantiating, to an extent, their claim that
the potential value of the co. was greater
than that recognised by the Cyclone offer.
(Cyclone offered to exchange one 10s.
ord. and 20s. in cash for every A.R.C.
10s. ord.) Trading results last term
further supported the board’s opinion, net
profit rising by over 39 p.c. during the
year to June 30, the 15 p.c. ord. div.-rate
being maintained with ease despite the
substantial increase in paid capital.
The co. has bounded ahead in the
seven years since the public obtained an
interest in its 37-year-old business,
earnings quadrupling in the five years to
1956, while the ord. div.-rate, initially
10 p.c., reached its present level in 1955.
A.R.C. takes its name from the Aus-
tralian Reinforced Concrete Engineering
Co. Pty. (later known as A.R.C. Engineer-
ing), which was formed in Melbourne in
1920 to fabricate steel reinforcing
materials (mesh, rods, etc.) for use in
concrete constructions.
In 1928 this co. established a branch-
plant in Sydney, moving into South Aus-
tralia 20 years later by buying the business
of Ovaweld, Ltd. In the meantime the
range of products turned out by the co.
had been extended to include fencing-
and barbed-wire, fly-screens and wire-
mesh containers.
In 1951 A.R.C. Industries was formed
as a holding-co. for the organisation,
exchanging 600,000 10s. ords. for the
200,000 £1 ords. in A.R.C. Engineering.
Operations spread to West Australia in
1955 [when Kresst Industries (W.A.) Pty.
was absorbed], and to Queensland in the
following year. Erection of a plant in
Tasmania is planned for the current term.
Last May shareholders in Agco, Ltd.
(manufacturer of aluminium fittings for
the building-trade, louvre windows, fly-
screens, etc., and glass merchant), accepted
an offer of one A.R.C. 10s. ord. for three
Agco ss. ords., the deal increasing
A.R.C.’s paid capital to £1,315,554, of
which £IOO,OOO is in £1 5 p.c. participa-
ting prefs: Prefs. issued to staff-fund
trustees, 40,000 in total, participate in
full with the ords., the balance of the
pref. capital participating, as from last
term, to 7 p.c. Last issue to shareholders


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road.
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magrnettingr Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
€#& jtfrXs
Future
0
One of the plain facts emerging from a study
of Australia’s progress now is that we cannot go
on dividing this country into State compartments.
All the States have their share to give to
an over-all prosperity, and any approach to
big-thinking on a national scale must recognise
the need for their closer co-ordination.
With that as a basic thought, I believe there
will be wide approval for the substantial help the
Federal Government is giving towards the building
of a standard-gauge rail link between Albury and
Melbourne.
We haVe only to look at a railway map to
see what divisions have been left to us in legacy
from our rise as States to nationhood.
Of 27,000 miles of Government railways open
to traffic, just about one-half the track distance is
on the 3ft. 6in. gauge in Queensland and Western
Australia; slightly more than one-quarter is on
the 4ft. (standard) gauge adopted by New
South Wales and less than one-quarter is on the
sft. 3in. gauge laid down in Victoria.
The massive job of correcting this mistake—
at least across junction points, for a beginning—is
going to take time and money.
Obviously, first call should go to those sections
where elimination of the breaks in gauge will help
production, cheapen costs and lead to a more fluid
traffic between areas of key importance. On that
reckoning a uniform gauge—4ft. B^in. —all the way
from Sydney to Melbourne has its distinct merit,
completing as it does the standard link from
Brisbane to Melbourne.
However, there is more to our railway problem
than the width of the lines. As unprofitable
enterprises the railways are adding to taxation to
pay for their losses.
One reason for the lack of funds for roads is
that a proportion of tax revenues must go to make
up railway deficits. And to meet the future with
an efficient national transport system Australia is
going to need the roads as much as it needs
the railways.
////asf^f s
7
was at par on a one-for-four
basis in 1955.
Although strong competition
(presumably in part from
Cyclone) was encountered last
term, the group’s gross earn-
ings rose by £184,228 to
£1,089,398, with the help, of
course, of the new subsidiaries.
.There was, however, a more
than proportionate increase in
selling and administrative
expenses (up £140,772 at
£383,706), an Agco offshoot
incurring a net loss of £17,219.
To maintain production the co.
has found it necessary to import
steel at prices above those
ruling locally, provision against
“stock - fluctuations” being
raised to absorb any drop in
stock-values. Last term’s charge
to this account was con-
siderably lower than in the
preceding term (down £61,011
at £45,519), leaving net profit
£98,762 stronger at £349,539,
after allowing £34,954 (up
£16,788) for depreciation, and
£243,838 (down £24,179) for
taxation at current rates:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Jne., Profit. Pref.’V Ord. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £
’52.. 91,636 5,214 124= 51,250 116,914
Profit sale assets, £25 .. 116,939
From stock provn., £28,334.. 145,273
’53.-114,915 5.989 124= 51,250 202,949
Profit sale assets, £979 .. 203,928
Intangibles w/off, £7522 ...196,406
'64.. 143,193 6,907 13f= 56,375 276,317
Profit sale assets, £2938 .. 279,255
Intangibles w/off, £7952 .. 271,303
’55..220,096 8,100 15 = 61,500 421,799
Profit'sale assets, £4839 .. 426,638
Goodwill received, £10,000.. 436,638
Unexp. addition, £15,939.. 452,577
*56.. 250,777 8,850 15 = 79,300 615,204
Revaluation freeholds,
£IOO,OOO 715,204
Res. capitalised, £528,665.. 186,539
Pre-acquisit’n profits, £39,625 226,164
Profit sale assets, £1960 .. 228,124
To prov. long-service leave,
£28,738 199,386
’57..349,539 10,200 15 =130,816 407,909
* £60,000 5 p.c. cum.'prefs. participate
to 7 p.c. with ords. £40,000 5 p.c.
cum. redeemable prefs. participate in
full with ords.
The earnings, showrt after
deducting £11,875 paid as divs.
to vendor shareholders in a
newly acquired subsidiary,
covered the 7 p.c. pref. div. and
27.5 p.c. on the larger ord.
and fully - participating pref.
capital combined, comparing
favorably with the 41.9 p.c.
average for the fhree preceding
years.
Retained earnings provided
most of the finance needed for
additions to freehold and plant
last term, and, with the absorp-
tion of Agco and a £lOO,OOO
surplus on revaluation of
certain properties contributing
to the £519,514 jump in the
book-value of fixed assets,
working-capital was kept at a
reasonable level, improving by
£83,627 to £635,042 with the
aid of a £73,750 mortgage-loan.
The bonus-issue involved, in
effect, the capitalisation of
visible reserves, the parent
revaluing its investment in
subsidiary cos. to bring it
closer to the book-value of net
assets:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1956. 1957.
Pref. ... .. £95,000 £lOO,OOO
Ord 528,665 1,215,544
Reserves .. .. 615,204 407,909
Mortgage .. .. 73,750
Overdraft .. .. 195,869 175,301
Creditors .. .. 212,147 203,427
Prov. long service 34,619
Tax provision .. 269,455 241,772
Final divs. .. 46,125 98,866
£1,962,465 £2,551,188
Land, buildings .. 412,507 739,016
Plant, etc. .. 262,474 455,559
Investments .. 12,473 2,205
Stock .. .. 683,385 641,302
Debtors, etc. .. 691,626 713,106
£1,962,465 £2,551,188
Both the overdraft (down
£20,568) and the amount owing
to creditors (down £8720) were
reduced, while stocks increased
by a net £57,917 and book-
debts by £21,480. Stocks are
shown after deducting the
provision for price-fluctuations,
and this would probably
account for the high ratio of
debtors to stocks.
Seeking fresh markets,
A.R.C. has obtained a 50 p.c.
share-interest in Malayan Wire
Mesh and Fencing Co., of
Singapore Hall Engineering
Industries (U.K.) holds the
balance of the capital
renaming the co. B.R.C. Weld-
mesh (Malaya), Ltd. Production
“in conjunction with at least
one large English co.” is also
contemplated in New Zealand.
Plans to join with the Reynolds
Metal Co., of U.S.A., in the
local production of aluminium-
foil were dropped by the board
during the term, but efforts are
being made to extend the range
and diversity of the group’s
products, the manufacture of a
new type of reinforcing-bar
awaiting clarification of certain
points covered by the Aus-
tralian building code.
The level of sales in the
first quarter of the current


r-i
this
i- *
1
n#anu
Mil Deain mu ■«
«3S® I® ■BanMßS«alsSiß»«i
a«g ■®iMSßgaaßgasßa
■ ■■■ n
KS MB
Ida Baai ■
jffifiBß»aKa
nan
mKm
A FINANCIAL
BULWARK.
for thousands
of Australians
FOR ALL CLASSES
OF LIFE ASSURANCE
AND PERSONAL
ACCIDENT INSURANCE
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in
Qld., 1895)
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY. BW 8061
DIRECTORS: E. VV. Robinson, Esq., Chairman;
Col. R. S. Goward, C.8.E.; P H. Phillips, Esq.;
T. Keith Smith, Esq.; C. VV. Rothe, Esq:;
S. J. Gandon, Esq.
Gen. Manager: W. J. Cooksey, B.Sc., F.F.A.
l.stab lB6B
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
v i
•jackson /fim
, O 'S UIUV AN /
PTYLTD CfT
W* *
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Faper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
term is described as “satisfac-
tory” by the directors, and a
contract has been obtained for
the supply of reinforcing-steel
for use in construction of the
bridge and over-pass to be
built at the foot of King Street,
Melbourne.
The boom in commercial
building over the past four or
five years has been partly
responsible for the co.’s pro-
sperity, but a substantial fall in
earnings would be necessary to
jeopardise the present div.-
rates. - *
Buyers offered 295. Id. for
the f.-p. 10s. ords. last week
for a return of £5 3s. 2d. p.c.
from a 15 p.c. div. Net tangible
backing (consolidated accounts)
is 13s. 4d.
Commonwealth Mining
Dividends totalling
£64,632 (up £36,574) were
received by Commonwealth
Mining Investments (Australia),
Ltd., during the year to June
30 last, an additional £14,598
coming in as interest, etc.
Administrative expenses took
£25,113 (up £738), to give the
co., in its second year of
operations, a tax-free profit of
£54,117 (up £41,991), equal to
5.4 p.c. on the paid capital
employed over the year.
A maiden div. of 4 1/6 p.c.
(of which only 50 p.c. is
taxable in the hands of share-
holders) will absorb £41.666,
leaving, reserves at £21,801.
Intangibles are shown at
£56,386. Paid capital was
recently increased to £1,400,000
by the issue of 800,000 10s.
ords. at par, two new shares
being offered to shareholders
for every five already held.
Primarily a mining-invest-
ment co., Commonwealth
Mining also sub-underwrites
issues of mining-stock (giving
shareholders the opportunity
of direct participation in such
issues), makes advances to
mining concerns and does a
little prospecting itself on the
side.
Last term a further £323,894
was put into listed stock, to
bring the total cost of invest-
ments of this class to £959,963.
Market-value at June 30 was
£1,145,577, blit by September
the margin between cost and
market price had narrowed to
approximately £84,000. Secured
loans and unlisted scrip were
in the accounts at £68,121.
Biggest change in the invest-
ment-portfolio was the greater
emphasis placed on beaCh-
mining, the co. becoming a
shareholder in Associated
Minerals Consolidated and
increasing its holding in
Western Titanium. At the end
of the term the spread over
the various minerals was as
follows:
June 30, June 30,
1956. 1957.
p.c. p.c.
Gold .. .. .. 43. Q 41.6
Copper, lead, zinc .. 45.2 41.5
Titanium, etc. ~ .. 4.9 10.6
Tin and tungsten- .. 4.4 3.6
Coal 1.3 1.3
Miscellaneous, inc. oil .. 1.2 1.4
100.0 100.0
Of the total share-investment,
86 p.c. was in div.-paying cos.,
including Broken Hill South,
E.Z. Industries, Mt. Isa Mines,
North Broken Hill, etc.
Current assets, mainly book-
debts and accrued income,
exceeded current liabilities and
the proposed div. by £117,575
at balance-date, with £163,385
of the fresh capital still to
come in.
A public co. is to be formed
to take over a lease held by
Commonwealth Mining cover-
ing what the directors term
“a high-grade gold property”
at Mt. Magnet (W.A.). This
leasehold is shown in the
balance-sheet at £58,652 (cost),
and it is intended to subscribe
for shares in the new co. “to
the extent of the cost of the
property.”
The co. has yet to develop
its full earning-power, and
with the depressed state of
world metal markets in mind
buyers price the f.-p. 10s. ords.
at 10s. 6d. cum div. (a Id.
over for ex-div.), the new issue
scrip bringing 10s.
A detailed list of invest-
ments would be a welcome
addition to subsequent direc-
tors’ reports.
Western Titanium, N.L.
TIIDS for scrip in beach-
mining cos. reflect share-
market doubts as to the
future demand for titanium-
oxides, the ss. ords. in
Western Titanium currently
fetching around 6s. 7d. com-
pared with a peak of over 10s.
last June.
With a final call (25.) on
scrip issued earlier in the year
due next month, the directors
of Western Titanium have
offered some encouragement
to shareholders by pointing-
out that the ilmenite mined
by the co., although suitable
for the production of titanium
metal, is in fact purchased by
the paint industry for use in
the manufacture of titanium-
dioxide pigment. “Virtually”
the whole of ‘ the estimated
production for 1957 and a
“substantial portion” of the
1958 output is stated to have
been sold or be “under
contract for sale.”
Production of ilmenite at
the co.’s plant at Capel (W.A.)
reached the original target
figure (6000 tons per month)
several months ago and plant-
capacity will be further
increased (by 50 p.c.) with the
installation of an additional
12 magnetic separators now
on order.
The secondary treatment
plant, for the extraction of
rutile, zircon and monazite,
is now complete, but, while
the Atomic Energy Com-
mission will purchase all
locally produced monazite,
the board is silent on the
question of markets for the
other heavy minerals.
Kia Ora Gold
ITT A ORA Gold Corporation,
N.L., has secured an option
over the Metallic Hill group of
seven goldmining leases at
Tennant Creek (N.T.).
Purchase-price if the option,
free for the first 12 months, is
exercised is £25,000 “payable
from 10 p.c. of gold won or
cash.” Renewals, on an annual
basis, may be obtained for a
period of up to five years at
a cost of £lOOO per year.
Kia Ora was formed in
1954 by Central Mines, N.L.,
Doria Mines, N.L., Merloo
Gold Mines, N.L., and Terri-
tory Scheelite, N.L., and holds
a number of leases around
Tennant Creek. The Kia Ora
goldmine was first worked in
1936.


MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
eIR SIDNEY HOLLAND, in
an unguarded moment a
few months ago when he was
still Prime Minister, was rash
enough to describe the Budget
which introduced the Govern-
ment’s pay-as-you-earn tax-
proposals to the public as “an
election-winner.”
A good many observers now
believe that “Paye,” as it is
called, may indeed prove to be
an election-winner for the
Labor party.
The fact is that the Govern-
ment has bungled the whole
thing badly.
There is a strong, but
strangely unvocal, opposition
to the whole idea of Paye.
Only two things can truly be
said in its favor: It may catch
in the taxation-net a few
slippery fish which hitherto
have been escaping, and it will
give the State a quick-acting
control over the economy
by variations in tax-rates.
Both Wanted It
However, it’s too late to talk
about that now. Both the
major political parties wanted
it, and it had to come.
Finance Minister Watts said
the Government’s scheme was
the simplest in the world. But
he spent 2\ hours explaining it
to the House, and it’s safe to
say that few people understand
it even-now.
The Government was in the
unfortunate position of having
to open the bidding, giving the
Opposition the chance to go
one better in wooing the
electors.
The Government said that
Paye would begin in April next.
Tax on income for the 1957-58
year would be remitted. Tax
on income for the 1956-57 year
would be payable as usual in
February next, subject to a
rebate of 25 per cent, with a
maximum of £75.
Opposition-leader Nash had
a look at this, then said that,
if Labor became the Govern-
ment, it, too, would remit
1957-58 tax and would give a
fiat £lOO rebate on 1956-57 tax
due in February.
Government members
labelled the offer “bribe.”
There is, indeed, little doubt
that, if Mr. Nash had been
securely in power, he wouldn’t
have been so generous. But
there it is: he has undertaken
that, if the Labor Party
becomes the Government in
November, he will call Parlia-
ment together to legislate for
the £lOO rebate.
Voters with a tax-liability of
around £lOO now know that
a Government victory will cost
them a cool £75. Unfortunate
though it may be, a good many
in the swinging section of the
electorate will probably think
the cost too high. The fact
remains, of course, that,\so far
as taxpayers in general are
concerned, what any Govern-
ment gives with one hand it
must take with the other.
The Self-employed
That disposes of income-tax.
It was in regard to social-
security tax on 1957-58 income
that the Government made its
big bloomer.
Persons on wages and salary
“Will you take the horse-collar with you or have
it delivered ?”
have been paying that tax at
Is. 6d. in the £1 and will con-
tinue to do so till the end of the
financial year.
The Government, however,
said at first that self-employed
persons, who normally would
not pay social-security tax on
this year’s income till next
year, would have their tax
remitted in full.
This was manifestly unjust,
and aroused a storm of protest,
not only from Labor but also
from many National Party
supporters.
True, those who were self-
employed when social-security
tax was initiated many years
ago would pay tax for the same
number of years as those who
were on wages. But the far
greater number who became
self-employed at any time after
the first year would pay tax for
one year less.
The provision was strongly
attacked by Labor members.
Mr. Nash said that, if the
Opposition were responsible
for the Administration when
the charge would normally
come due in July and
November next year, it would
postpone' payment to enable
any individual concerned to
prove that the charge against
him had already been paid. If
it was proved that he had paid
a charge equal in proportion on
his income to that paid by wage-
and salary-earners, then no
more would be collected. Pay-
ment of the sum assessed to be
due, if any, would also be
spread to an extent necessary to
prevent hardship.
After a number of caucus
and Cabinet meetings, at which
a wide difference of opinion
became apparent, the Govern-
ment altered its decision in
what Mr. Nash described as
“an amazingly cheap volte
face.”
Liability for social-security
tax on income other than
salary or wages for the 1957-58
year will be retained, but only
on income above £lOO, and the
tax will not be payable till the
taxpayer’s death or permanent
departure from New Zealand.
This was probably the best
way out of an awkward situa-
tion that the Government could
see, but it is hardly likely to
satisfy many people.
The self-employed are angry
and disappointed—those who
paid the tax in its first year with
some justification. Wage-
earners, on the other hand,
don’t see why many self-
employed should in effect be
given a lifelong, interest-free
loan of, in some cases,
hundreds of pounds.
As it was in any case
admitting that it had made a
mistake, the Government might
have gone the whole way and
adopted something on the lines
of Mr. Nash’s proposal, which
at least has the appearance of
fairness.
Perhaps not surprisingly,
little was heard during the
debate of the permanent
exemption of wage- and salary-
earners from social-security
tax on the first £2 a week of
their earnings from April 1
next.
This objectionable, discrimi-
natory provision appears to
have been introduced solely to
suit administrative convenience.
It is hard to see any real
justification for it.
Depreciation
The abolition of special
depreciation taxation allow-
ances, decided on by the
Government a year or so ago
as one of several measures
designed to check spending,
continues to cause much con-
cern to N.Z. industry.
The managing-director of
Ross and Glendining, Ltd., Mr.
E. O. Hunter, told shareholders
at their annual meeting that the
company was not able to put
aside sufficient money, to pro-
vide for normal plant and
building additions. The rate of
tax paid by the company dur-
ing the last eight years was so
high and allowances were so
far short of reasonable that it
was impossible to do so.
In that eight-year period
dividends amounted to
£741,297, while tax took
£1,068,750. Even more
important, however, was the
fact that out of total net
profits of £1,973,365, only
£163,318 was retained after
these two payments had been
made.
In the same period the cost
of building additions was
£755,013. This had to be
financed largely out of two
share-issues.
The elimination of special
depreciation would have a
serious effect on the financial
stability of many manufactur-
ing concerns. Most deprecia-
tion - rates had not been
amended for many years and
the constant need for modern-
isation simply could not be met
out of present allowable
amounts.
The chairman of Whakatane
Board Mills, Ltd., Mr. G. H.
Mackley, also recently drew
attention to the same problem.
He pointed out that N.Z.
forestry companies were com-
peting with those of Canada
and Scandinavia, many of
which had completely written-
off the capital-value of their
plant.


THE SHIELD
By B. A. KER
STRICTLY speaking, 1
suppose, it is not even a
shield, since it is scarcely
three-inches across at the
widest part, and the cleverest
aboriginal warrior could hardly
have deflected a spear with an
object so narrow. “A piece of
old wood,” Isabel had called it.
“Must you clutter up the
place with this piece of old
wood any longer?”
I had been —well, “shocked”
is the only word for it. If she
had suggested putting under the
copper the old Family Bible
with the three generations of
my family’s births, weddings
and deaths handwritten on the
opening pages, I couldn't have
been more indignant.
She had looked at me in
amazement, then dismissed the
subject on a light, humorous
note:
“All right, all right. I won’t
fight you over it. But I had no
idea that you valued the thing
so highly.”
A piece of old wood! Yes,
it’s a piece of old wood —about
38 years old. “Mugga” we
used to call that kind of timber ;
the tree was something like
stringybark, but the wood was
reddish. The shield is about
two - feet - six - inches long,
slightly curved like a loosely-
strung bow, with both ends
tapering to a point. In cross-
section it’s shaped as a Brazil-
nut would be if sawn crosswise.
A handle, carved out of the
solid timber, stands out fully
three-inches, in the middle and
at the exact point of balance.
But it’s the patterns etched
in the front faces that make,
to me, the difference between an
“old piece of wood” and a
link, a history, a living record
preserved in wood.
Most people would see
merely a tracery in diamond-
pattern, each diamond slightly
bigger than the one inside it,
but with the biggest forming
part of a bigger pattern, again
with the same diamond-pattern
motif running through it.
“A splendid example of
aboriginal craftsmanship,” an
anthropologist once told me.
Perhaps it is. But to me it
will always be a piece of
Tommy’s life, and my own.
T WAS young when Tommy
came to the farm too
young to understand the work-
ings of Aborigines’ Protection
Boards or to grasp our own
position on the property.
Now, of course, I realise
that Dad was share-farming,
and “The Boss,” who lived in
the other, bigger, weatherboard
cottage about two-hundred
yards up the paddock, owned
the property. All that we kids
knew about the black “wood-
and-water Joey” who had come
to live with us was that his
father had been drowned while
trying to rescue somebody in
a flood and the Boss had told
Dad he wanted to- “give the
poor coot a chance.”
So Tommy had meals wdth
us, slept in the rouseabout’s
hut and did odd-jobs around
the place for Mum when he
wasn’t working for
What his age was it never
occurred to me to guess. I had
a vague idea that he was a bit
older than my oldest brother,
Chick, and Chick was fourteen
when Tommy came.
For three or four months we
younger ones, Jimmy and I,
treated Tommy with great
respect. He was different, an
unknown quantity; and, all kids
being frightened of the un-
known, we were a little scared
of him. But we boasted
arrogantly about him at school,
and enjoyed the considerable
prestige over our acquisition.
Familiarity, however, bred
indifference. We liked him,
really, and he seemed to like
us, but we put a sly one over
on him every now and then,
nevertheless.
Tommy loved the phono-
graph. At first he would just sit
with his head almost in the
megaphone-like speaker, a
beatific expression on his
powdery-black face. Months
passed before he felt confident
enough to accept Mum’s invita-
tion to “Play it yourself,
Tommy.”
From then on he almost wore
out the cylinder-record of “M.y
Silver Bell.” It always opened
his session, had at least one
run in the middle of the pro-
gramme, and became the
equivalent of the National
Anthem at bedtime. Tommy
couldn’t read, but he evolved a
system of priorities in the stack-
ing of the cylinders in the
record-cupboard. “My Silver
Bell,” “Anybody Here Seen
Kelly?” “When the Sunset
Turns the Ocean’s Blue to
Gold,” and so on.
We never knew what caused
the tiff with Chick, but the two
obviously weren’t speaking at
tea-time, and after the washing-
up was done and the milk
separated, Tommy went into
the dining-room on his own. We
heard the phonograph being
wound up, then:
“Edison Bell record. Florrie
Ford singing: Tfn Fair, Fat
and Forty.’ ”
I happened to be passing
through the room as, in the
manner of those old records,
a voice made that announce-
ment. Tommy, sitting on the
floor in front of the machine,
started violently. Siunned
incredulity came to his eyes.
Suddenly he jumped to his feet,
ran to the record-cupboard and
looked inside. When he turned
back utter despair was spread
all over his broad face.
Chick walked in from the
kitchen.
“What’s up, old boy? Can’t
find ‘My Silver Bell,’ eh?” he
asked mockingly.
Tommy looked at him with
haughty dignity.
“I wanted to listen to F’orrie
Ford,” Jie declared frigidly.
“Yair ; like fun, you did,”
Chick scoffed. Suddenly he
wheeled on me. “You show
him where it is and I’ll knock
y’r block off!” he threatened.


He looked as though he
would have.
The next record was “Get
Out and Get Under.” Tommy
played it right through, with a
forced smile of contentment on
his thick lips. Then came
Harry Lauder singing “Will
Y’ Stop Y’r Tickling, Jock!”
After that Tommy dragged his
long, gangling frame off the
floor and went into the kitchen.
“Got an ’eadache,” he told
Mum, and slouched dejectedly
to his hut.
'THE next day was a Satur-
day. In the afternoon
Tommy took the sharp axe—
the one Dad kept in good nick
and wouldn’t let us kids touch
—and strode out into the bush.
He dropped a fair-sized
mugga. From the trunk he cut
just one billet, an axe-handle
long, roughly squared it, and
brought the piece home.
On Sunday morning he
worked on the billet with the
axe, chopping down, sighting,
paring off the ends. Just before
dusk he got a stone ginger-
beer bottle from the heap under
the house. Like an expert
diamond-cutter analysing a
Koh-i-noor in the rough he
scrutinised the bottle, this way,
then that, before coming to a
vital decision. One purposeful
blow with the back of the axe
and the bottle was shattered
The fragments were carefully
examined until, with an ex-
pression of extreme satisfac-
tion, he found the piece he
sought. A fragment with a
long feather-edge. He had
found his spokeshave.
After tea we always had
meals on the big table in the
kitchen —Tommy went in to the
dining-room again. A grinding,
winding sound, then with
characteristic peals of- forced
laughter, Billy Williams burst
forth in a ditty concerning the
difficulties in papering a parlor.
The next item was rendered by
Ernest Pike sadly and soulfully
declaiming that he was “Tying
the leaves so they won’t come
down.” And as the recital went
on, Tommy shaved and
smoothed and shaved at the
piece of mugga.
We had records.
When I went to bed the search
was still going on. I couldn’t
understand why Tommy didn’t
change the record as soon as he
heard it was not “My Silver
Bell,” but perhaps his pride
wouldn’t allow him to thus
advertise what he was doing.
On the other hand, he may
have thought it sacrilege to
cut any of them short, for he
liked them all; “Silver Bell” he
loved.
I went to sleep with Stanley
Kirby musically promising:
“In your cottage down the lane
I will come to you again, when
the mocking birds are singing,
sweetheart my-hine.”
Maybe it was the complete
stoppage of the musical proces-
sion that woke me. The house
was very Still, but I could hear
Mum’s soft, gentle voice
through the wooden - lined
partition:
“I think it’s, a bit late, now,
to be playing the phonograph,
don’t you, Tommy? Suppose
you go to bed now, eh? You
can play some more records
tomorrow night, if you want
to.”
“Yairs. Yairs, tha’s right. I
can play ’em tomorrow night.
Goo’-night, Missus.”
“Good-night, Tommy.’”
I saw the white of Mum’s
nightgown go past our open
door as she tiptoed back to
bed. A rustling sound from the
dining-room had me mystified
for several minutes, until I
recalled that Tommy had
thoughtfully laid newspapers
on the floor to catch his
whittlings. The dining-room
clock struck a quarter-to-some-
thing.
I was still awake when the
hour struck. Midnight.
Remorse, and a feeling of
sympathy came over me. Poor
cow! He’d been all those hours
trying to find his record and
I could have picked it out for
him in a few minutes.
I knfew I would never be
able to go to sleep again until
I had put that cylinder in the
place Tommy had always
reserved for it.
I was halfway to the door
when Chick’s voice brought
me to a startled halt.
“You sort them records out
and I’ll flatten you like a
tack.”
“I’m goin’ out the back,” I
shot back at him nastily.
A FTER tea on the following
night Tommy went in to
the phonograph again. Mum’s
grey-blue eyes followed him
thoughtfully.
“Tommy seems to have
become extraordinarily fond of
the phonograph,” she said in
a puzzled kind of voice.
Chick didn’t look up from
the paper-covered booklet
entitled “The Sexton Blake
Library.” I felt myself flush-
ing guiltily.
The music started.
“When the Mocking Birds
Are Singing in the Wildwood.”
That one again! Tommy had
played that one last night!
Suddenly I realised. Chick
must have mixed-up the records
all over again. An expression
of suspicious mystification
came to Sis’s round, normally-
pleasant face.
“It’s funny that Tommy
didn’t start with ‘My Silver
Bell,’ ” she mused. Then added
decisively: “Yes; it is funny.”
She put down her tea-towel
with an abrupt, deliberate
action and strode purposefully
into the dining-room.
Through a pane of the glass-
panelled door I could see
Tommy. He was sitting on the
floor looking like—well, like a
youth who couldn’t cry, but
would have felt much better
if he could have. Sis bent over
him. She was there several
minutes ; coaxing him to talk,
it seemed to me.
She returned to the kitchen
like a willy-willy.
“You ought to feel real
proud of yourself, Chicker
Blakey!” her tongue slashed.
“I wouldn’t do a thing like that
to a mangy bandicoot.”
“Shad up,” growled Chick.
Dad looked up from his
book, puzzled eyes peering over
his steel-rimmed glasses. For
a moment he sat looking from
one to the other, then evidently
deciding that, since no call went
up for his arbitration, justice
was beirig done, he returned to
Rider Haggard and She.
Mum, too, looked from Sis
to Chick, then back again. She
didn’t speak, but I knew that,
as always, she had a very good
idea of what was going on in
her family.
“You . . . you’re, you’re as
mean as a collier’s whelp!”
Sis lacerated Chick,
Nearly six years later I found
where Sis had got that telling
phrase Kipling’s “Mary
Gloucester.”
“Shad up,” Chick repeated,
his head down in pretence of
being deeply engrossed in the
doings of Sexton Blake and his
assistant, Tinker. But his ears
were flaming red. Despite the
fact tltat she was only eleven
months older than Chick, Sis
could always browbeat him.
And then the strains of “My
Silver Bell” came floating from
the dining-room. I had never
realised before what a lovely
melody it was.
Next day, after thQ evening
milking, Tommy presented Sis
with the shield. It was com-
pleted, although there were no
etched patterns on it then.
“It’s really lovely, Tommy.”
Sis ran her hand over the
smooth wood. “But” the
hesitant, thoughtful note in her
voice puzzled me “But, it
would be a pity to shut it away
in my room. Tell you what—
we’ll hang it over the
mantelpiece the way knights
used to hang their battle-axes.”
It was doubtful whether
Tommy knew the first thing
about knights of old, but the
idea of hanging the shield up
on show evidently pleased him.
His beaming smile spread right
back to his molars.
'THE rabbit-trapper came to
A the dam-paddock like a
traveller from a far distant
land. He lived in Sydney—well,
a place called Smithfield,
which was, so he hold us, only
about twenty miles from
Sydney. And twenty miles, to
bush-bred kids, was practically
next-door.
He upset all our accepted
ideas. A city bloke should
have been scared to go in a
paddock where there was a
bull; and he ought not to have
known the plate of a
rabbit-trap from the spring.
And yet the rabbits sang
in his traps all over the
hillsides every night, and more
than once Dad said with an
envious note in his voice:
“That fellow’s making more
money than we are.”
The trapper’s camp attracted
us like a circus. He talked
about such amazing things:
harbors “a thousand times
bigger than that there dam,”
of the sea, where waves rose
“higher than that sapling,”
and all manner of unbelievable
things. He seemed to like us
around ; he quickly learnt our
names and told us to call him
Sid.
Tommy attracted his atten-
tion immediately.
“Y’know,” he said, “you
remind me of Jerry Jerome—
when he was a young feller.
What a fighter he was! Didn’t
know much about fancy boxin’,
mind yer, just a natural fighter.
And you’re built just like him
—long arms, light legs, wide
shoulders”
Tommy sat and lapped it all
up, his dark eyes shining
brighter than the embers of the
campfire.
Old Sid had a book called
Famous Fights at Sydney
Stadium. We all thumbed
through it, gazing with awe at
the close-cropped Jack John-
son—“ The Black Panther”;
Sam Langford “The Boston
Tar Baby’-’ ; and scores of other
boxers. But Tommy was only
interested in one photograph.
For minutes at a time he would
sit staring fixedly at a smoky-
black figure shaping-up in
white shorts much too long in
the legs.
We all missed Old Sid when
he moved on to other paddocks.
Tommy was not so disturbed
as we had expected. Nearly a
week passed before the reason
for his indifference was


detected. Chick saw it first —
tacked to the wall over
Tommy’s bunk. The photo of
Jerry Jerome. Old Sid had torn
it out of the book and presented
it to him as a kind of keepsake.
Several days later Sis seemed
to have some secret commis-
sion at the sewing-machine.
When it was executed she
bought a film for her small box-
camera.
It was all very mysterious
until Sis came back from the
chemist’s with the developed
snaps. Tommy pored over
them, his great grin at complete
variance from the fighting-face
scowl he had adopted when
shaping-up for the camera in
a passable imitation of the
Jerry Jerome stance.
Chick inspected the snaps
mockingly. “You look like
Jerry Jerome, all right,” he
scoffed. “His trunks were a
mile too long for him, too.”
Tommy beamed even wider.
Sarcasm was a bit too subtle
to wound Tommy's feelings.
]V/rUM, in most things so very
practical and clear-think-
ing, had an unexpected weak-
ness: she was superstitious.
Which was the reason why
the old tarnished mirror had
been carefully packed in bags
and stood in a corner of the
shed when the borer-ridden
wardrobe had been replaced.
She wouldn’t throw the mirror
out for fear it would be broken
and bring somebody seven
years’ bad luck.
It was young Jimmy who
first noticed that the mirror
had gone; and it was he who
found out where. Tommy had
it propped up on a box in his
hut. Young Jimmy and I
watched him standing in the
candlelight, clad in his white
shorts, striking the Jerry
Jerome pose. Next he studied
his reflection with expanded
chest and pulled-up biceps.
Then, set in his Jerome stance,
he attempted to hurl mighty
blows at his reflection without
moving his feet from the pre-
scribed position.
Our giggles spoilt the show.
From then on Tommy hung
bags over the window and
bolted the door of his hut. But
the snortings and nose-snifflings
still went on, despite the com-
ments which were sometimes
shouted through the knotholes
in the walls.
Just before Christmas
[Tommy called me aside with
a very secretive attitude. He
had the back page from a
periodical, a sheet advertising
all manner of diverse things
from magic parlor-tricks to
courses in ventriloquism and
“Imitation bed-bugs. Greaf
fun!” But Tommy was inter-
ested only in an illustration of
boxing-gloves.
“What’s that say?” he asked.
I read aloud: “Boxing-
gloves like the champions use.
Only £1 a set. Fill in the
coupon and mail now !"
Tommy was all eagerness.
“You kin write that, can’t
you?” he urged. “ ’Cause the
Boss says he's goin’ to give me
a quid for a Christmas-
present.”
I laughed scornfully. Of
course I could fill the form in.
What did he think I was —a
igeramius? But secretly I
wished I knew what it meant
by “block-letters.”
In due course the gloves
arrived, despite the lack of.
block-letters. Tommy was
delighted, Chick scathing.
“You’ve been had, Tommy,”
he declared. “They’re only
made of rag and they’re stuffed
with hard kapok. They oughta
be made of chamois leather —
Teddy Dryson’s are. And the
stuffin’ had ought to be .horse-
hair.”
Tommy was not perturbed.
“These are gloves like the
champeens use,” he pointed out
with dignity. “The Drysons
ain’t champeens.”
He pulled the lumpy, ill-
fitting bags on his hands and
struck his Jerry Jerome pose.
“You and Chicker have a
spar, gawn.”
Young Jimmy’s fox-shaped
face was alight with anticipa-
tion.
Strangely, it was Chick who
hesitated. Perhaps he was
thinking of what Old Sid had
said about natural fighters.
“Gawn,” coaxed Jimmy*
Then added a taunt:, “3C ain’t
cocky, are yez?”
“Me, cocky?” Chick threw
off his old felt hat with an
elaborate gesture, and picked
up a glove.
“Wait till I get me trunks
on.”
Tommy bolted to his hut..
TOMMY was several inches
taller than Chick when they
stood together, but Chick was
more solid.
“Y’ have to shake hands,
first,” Tommy said and
solemnly extended his gloves.
Chick touched them very cauti-
ously with his, then backed off.
Tommy fell into his Jerome
stance. Chick shaped up
awkwardly. They stood just
out of range, watching each
other. Jimmy grew impatient.
“Gawn,” he shouted. “Why
don’t yez hit each other?”
Chick began to revolve
around Tommy, cautiously
keeping out of range. Tommy
moved only sufficiently to
keep Chick before him.
“One’s cocky and the other
ain’t game!” Jimmy applied
the stock schoolboy taunt
derisively.
It goaded Chick into action.
He stepped in quickly, took a
hurried prod at Tommy’s nose,
and jumped bade. To his
obvious surprise, the punch
ponnected.
Tommy blinked and resumed
bis stance.
Chick tried it again. Again
the blow struck home. Confi-
dence came to Chick. He tried
hitting harder and. with both
hands. Every punch thudded
against Tommy’s face. He
reeled with the force of some
of them, but each time
methodically set both his body
and his face in the Jerome pose,
exactly as the photo depicted.
“I doan know much about
fancy boxin’,” he kept repeat-
ing ; “I'm jest a natural
fighter.”
Yet he made no real attempt
to launch a punch at Chick.
Blood began to pour from his
nose. We were amazed to see
that it was red —just the same
as if he had been white.
“Hit him, Tommy, gawn!”
urged Jimmy.
“I’m jest a natural fighter,”
Tommy was insisting, when the
wild right swing struck him
squarely on the mouth. He
reeled back on his heels.
Yet the moment he caught
up with his balance again he
set himself in that ridiculous,
stiff stance and stood like a
black statue in overlong white
trunks.
There was something pathetic
and, terrible about it. If he
would only cut loose with his
long arms it would at least
hold Chick off.; might even
knock all the heart out of
him; Chick might not be so
game if he copped a few!
But no; it seemed as though
Tommy had the idea fixed in
his head that, by standing as
Jerry Jerome stood, he couldn't
be hit; he was covered by a
sort of magic protection like
that Greek we were reading
about in our School Magazines
had —Achilles. If Tommy
would only swing some of those
swipes he practised in front of
the mirror! But perhaps
Chick looked different from the
reflection in the glass.
And still Chick kept circling
around, rushing in every few
seconds with a swishing swing.
I found myself praying that
Tommy would lose his temper.
Anything would be better than
standing there getting bashed
silly.
A really terrible punch
crashed against the thick,
bleeding lips. Tommy stag-
gered back, fell to his knees —
and instantly dragged himself
shakily erect.
And it was then Sis came
charging on to the scene ; she
THE PLUM-CATCHER
The plum-catcher stopped by the laden tree
And softly said,
“O smoothest, rosiest, roundest plum
Come to a bed
Of earth and flowers, come down to me."
The slightest shake was enough, the fruit
With the faintest thud
Fell into his hand. But then that brute,
With that sweet blood
Of that plum on his lips, shook the tree again,
And again, and each day of the ripening year
He takes what falls.
And this, in her bed, is the dream whose pain
Waking appals
Her, turning the catcher’s smile to a leer.
“Why am I not sour, shrivelled, lean ?”
She says to her sheet,
Betrayed by ripeness. “Damn his eyes, his hand
And Jus wandering feet,
May all the fruit that he bites be green."
The plum-catcher stops by the winter tree
And shakes his head
Instead of a branch. “O summer plum,
The earth’s cold bed
Is lean and lonely, come back to me."
S.A.
GEOFFREY DUTTON.


m
!
m
m
sm, &
>2S
What a
difference
they
make!
SELF-SUPPORTING AND
HAVE RUSTPROOF BUCKLES
EVERY SEAM IS
SERGED WITH AN OVERIOCK STITCH
You can see that difference. The first time you wear Stamina
Self-Supporting Trousers, you’ll know they are the most com-
fortable, attractive slacks you’ve ever had. That’s what happens
when fine fabrics are expertly cut and handsomely finished by
tailoring craftsmen. They fit perfectly. They look smarter.
Try a pair. See what a difference they make to you.
/ \
U ; g? r **.
3 K \
\%'V J \\
1
H / { i
) /
UrA/lt J
Available in all
the most wanted
shades:
Light Green Zircon
Nutmeg Fawn
Harbour Blue
Dark Green Reseda
Mist Grey
tmm
V >•• '•:> •> • I
MK
CLOTHES
TA.113
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
looked like some brown-haired
lioness leaping to defend her
young.
“Take those gloves off.
Tommy. Straight away!”
Her voice cracked like Sid’s
repeating-rifle.
“Look at you! Blood all
over the trunks I made you.
And you”—she swung around
on Chick, her eyes blazing—•
“you ought to be utterly
ashamed of yourself, Chicker
Blakey. What are you trying
to do —kill him? You great
big bully!”
“I’m jest a natural fighter,”
Tommy mumbled thickly.
“You’re nothing of the kind!
You couldn’t fight a baby. Give
me those gloves. They’re going
under the copper on washing-
day.”
Suddenly her tone changed.
“Come up to the kitchen and
I’ll doctor that lip up,” she
said very gently.
There were no more snort-
ings and no?se-snifflings from
Tommy’s hut after that, nor
was the window ever covered.
That night, without a word,
he lifted the shield down from
the chimney-breast and took it
to his hut. Through the
window I saw him working on
it.
A week later Tommy
brought the shield back and
showed it around proudly. The
small diamond;pattern was
etched along the front.
TT was the day after Chick’s
nineteenth birthday, a Satur-
day. We were just sitting down
to tea. Chick was absent; he
played fullback for our team
and they had an “away”-
match.
The stumbling noise on the
veranda caused Mum to look
up, the teapot in her hand. A
medley of emotions showed
briefly on her round face —sur-
prise, incredulity, something
like mild shock, then growing
concern.
Tommy blundered into the
kitchen. But it was a different,
a completely alien, almost
frightening Tommy. His dark
eyes were wild, yet stupid-look-
ing ; his mouth sagged open
with saliva dripping from one
corner. The collar of his shirt
was crumpled and partly tucked
under the neck of his cardigan ;
the tail hung, lopsided, out-
side his trousers like half-a-
skirt.
“I’m pullin’ out! ” he shouted
at Dad in a blurred voice. “I
been es —espoited too long.
Everyone espoits the black-
feller. Well, no one’s goin’ to
espoit me no more!”
{Continued on page 56)


A Rachel Penning postscript
John Mi ll's Diary
[ln last week’s instalment John
lUills' described his first, visit to
The Mount, in Taunton, Somerset,
where his friend John Hester- was
staying with the Pinchards,
relatives of Rachel Henning. In
this instalment John Mills des-
cribes his second visit to The
Mount, and then his third visit)
to attend the wedding of John
Hester to Rose Biddulph, a cousin
of Rachel’s- staying with the
Pinchards.J
April 5, 1854.—G0t to Taun-
ton most punctually. Found
[John] Lester waiting at the
station. Spent the afternoon at
quoits, La Grace and archery
in the barrack-yard. After
dinner went to the Institution
and read the papers, etc.
April 6. —ln the morning
showing stereoscope—billiards,
etc. After lunch rode with
Lester and Rose Biddulph to
the Wellington Monument, a
very nice ride and a fine view,
but rather hazy from the
easterly wind. Went by the
Wellington road —home by
Leigh Gap and Angersleigh.
After dinner, chess and music.
April 7. —I hoped to have
received some iodised paper
from Bland and Long, but it
has not yet come, so I cannot
commence to photograph. Vari-
ous amusements, letter-writing,
etc., going on. A large party
of us — i.e., Mrs. and Mr.
Pinchard, Rose and Lester and
I, dined at Mr. H. Badcock’s at
the Bank—a pleasant party.
Miss Badcock a very pretty
girl, and, for a wonder for this
place, not engaged. There was
also Miss Lucy Doveton 4sister
of Annie D., whom I met when
last here). After dinner my
stereoscope was introduced and
gave great satisfaction and
assisted materially in getting
thro’ the evening, which was by
no means an unpleasant one.
April 8. —In the morning
writing, then went out with
Lester. Ordered the horses for
this afternoon and played at
billiards. After lunch Rose and
Lester, Miss Georgie Badcock
and 1 went for a ride —and a
very nice one we had, through
Kingston to the top of Cother-
stone Hill, from which the view
is very fine —could see the
Bristol Channel plainly—back
by Hestercombe and into the
park. After dinner a Shak-
speare-reading—“T w e 1 f t h
Night.” Cast: Duke and An-
tonio—J. Mills ; Malvolio and
Sir A. Aguecheek, Mr. Pin-
chard ; Sir Toby Belch, Theo-
philus Pinchard.; Clown and
Sebastian, William P. (from
Eton, whom I did not see last
time I was here) ; Fabian and
Olivia, Biddulph Pinchard;
Viola, Pullen; Maria, H.
Alford.
April 9 (Sunday). —Church
morning and evening. Mr.
Parr preached in the morning,
but not a sermon equal to that
I heard last time ; indeed, his
morning sermons are always
rather expositions of a chapter
than a regular sermon. After
dinner Lester and 1 walked
In bis diary-entry for April 10, 1854, John Mills refers to his
meeting with “a Miss Raehel Henning—a poetess and botanist,
and [ungallantly] very plain.”
In this photograph Kaeliel Henning seems to he quite
petite and charming. It is the “earte-de-visite likeness” she
had taken (mentioned in her letter of August 15. 1802, p. 41)
prior to her departure on the great adventure of her life, to
what was to become Exmoor Station, inland from Bowen (Q.).
Her own comment was that ”I look remarkably hideous in a
earte-de-visite.”
At the time this photograph was taken Rachel was 36—
fifteen months after she had returned to Australia' for good.
She married Heighten Taylor on March 3, 1866—when she was 33.
over Bate’s Hill by Trull to
Pounsford Avenue, nearly to
Pitminster. A pleasant walk,
it was very warm.
April 10. —Got my paper
from Bland and Long, and
after breakfast at once set to
work. Took four pictures of
St. Mary’s in hopes of getting
a stereoscopic effect, and two
of Mr. Pinchard’s house. They
all came out very fairly.
A niece of Mr. Pinchard’s
came to spend some hours en
route to Exeter —a Miss Rachel
Henning—a poetess and botan-
ist, and very plain. After lunch
we went to see Prout's Pano-
rama of the Diggings and the
road thereto. Some of the
pictures were very good. After
that walked home with Bella
Badcock. Her father’s is a
very nice house called The
Elms, not very far from the
railway-station. She returned
to tea with us. She is a lively,
amusing girl, engaged to
Tregenna Biddulph.
April //. —Having got some
paper ready after breakfast,
Lester and I went to Mr.
Stevens’ cabinet manufactory,
from the top of which I got a
view of St. Mary’s tower from
a much nearer point than yes-
terday’s. 1 was much pleased
with some of his furniture,
which is of beautiful manufac-
ture. He had some in the
exhibition of 1851. I got one
tolerably successful view. I
did not ride with Lester and
Rose R., being tired, but late
in the afternoon I took a walk
with Mrs. P. and Kate B.,
round the s.-e. side of Bate’s
Hill. It was a lovely evening
and the view was beautiful.
Chess and music in the evening.
April 12. —In the morning
taking likenesses. Did one very
successful one of Lester, who
sat admirably. The others were
not so successful. After dinner
(latterly shifted to two-o’clock)
Lester and 1 called at the H.
Badcock's but all were out.
We then had a good game at
quoits and La Grace, and then
some billiards. After tea read
“Midsummer Night’s Dream.”
Bella Badcock came as one of
the audience, but our number
of readers was small. It went
off very well.
April 13. —Busy all the
morning packing, but found
time to print-off a positive of
Lester' which is really very
fair, a little dark, but good in
likeness and absence of harsh-
ness. During the morning
Mrs. and Georgie Badcock
called. At 12.30 I left my very
kind friends —the impression
made in my last visit has been
strengthened in this, and I
shall always look back with
grateful feelings for their kind-
ness. Lester accompanied me
to the station, and by him I
sent back a note to Mrs. Pin-
chard with a piece of poetry
embodying my feelings, and
which had been intended for
the Lion’s Mouth next Christ-
mas, but I thought of the un-
certainty of its ever finding its
way to those for whom it was
intended if left so long, so I
sent it at once.
July 29, 1854. —Lester met
me at the station, and I went
with him to The Mount. The
only additions to the usual
party were Mrs. Waddington
(sister of Mrs. Pinchard and
wife of Col. Waddington of
our * Engineers) and her nice
little daughter Annie, aged 14,
and Tregenna Biddulph. After
(<Continued on page 55)


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Cup
Beginning with Derby* Day
next Saturday, the V.R.C. will
stage its traditional four-day
Melbourne Cup carnival,
during which it will distribute
some £60,000 in stakemoney.
The unrivalled Cup (next
Tuesday) dates to 1861—oldest,
and by tradition and stake-
money most important, handi-
cap in the Australian calendar.
This year the big race is worth
£15,000 plus a trophy valued
at £5OO. The winner's cash
share is £10,500.
Bobby Lewis has the best
riding record in the Cup. His
first success was on The Vic-
tory in 1902 ; 25 years later he
scored his fourth win on
Trivalve. Darby Munro, Jack
Purtell and W. H. McLachlan
all rode three winners.
E. deMestre, who owned and
trained Archer, winner of the
first two Melbourne Cups,
trained in all five winners of
the race.
Four-year-olds have the best
record in the Cup, with 27
wins ; five-year-olds, 24 ; three-
year-olds, 23; six-year-olds,
14 ; aged horses, eight wins.
Carbine holds the weight-
carrying record for the race,
set when he lumped 10.5 in
1890 ; only two others, Archer
10.2 (1862) and Poitrel 10.0
(1920), have carried lOst. and
upwards successfully. Comic
Court (1950) and Evening Peal,
last year, share the time honors,
3.19 L
At time of writing, this
year’s' Melbourne Cup issue is
clouded by the doubt whether
some of the fancied candidates
will run. Veteran trainer Fred
Hoysted is nursing Syntax to
a Cup start. For all his success,
Hoysted has never prepared a
Melbourne Cup winner; his
heart is set on having Syntax
fit to win the big race this
year. Prince Darius is another
horse whose Cup start may be
in doubt until after the
running of next Saturday’s
Derby.
Melbourne *Cup selections:
Syntax, 1 ; Pandie Sun, 2;
Fighting Force, 3.
• • • •
Derby day at Flemington
next Saturday offers as well-
balanced a day’s racing as
anybody could wish. Tulloch
looks to have such a mortgage
on the £4900 first-prize in the
Derby itself that bookmakers
who normally issue charts on
the Derby-Melbourne Cup
double have this year sub-
stituted the Cantala Stakes for
the Derby as first leg. Should
the champion win as expected,
he will be the sixth Sydney-
trained colt to win the Vic-
“Chicken!”
torian classic in the last seven
years. Only Sailor’s Guide
(1955) broke the sequence.
For the Derby: Tulloch, 1 ;
Prince Darius, 2 ; Famed 3. '
The five-furlongs £2500
Maribyrnong Plate, regarded
as one of the spring “plums”
for two-year-olds, is another
race Sydney horses have
dominated this decade; four
of the last five Plates have gone
to Sydney entrants. An odd
sidelight of the Maribyrnong is
that riot since the race was
instituted in 1871 has the
winner gone on in later years,
to win either a Caulfield or
Melbourne Cup. Last year
Concert Star proved too smart
for the colts, and the speedy
Andabri may emulate her next
Saturday.
• *
Provided his suspect fore-leg
stands up to another week’s
work, Melbourne Cqp favorite
Syntax will have a run in the
£2OOO w.-f.-a. L. K. S. Mac-
kinnon Stakes next Saturday.
In recent years Comic Court,
Delta and Rising Fast took the
Stakes jarior to their Cup
success, and this writer expects
Syntax to win the same double.
As well as the Hotham
Handicap—form in which will
be worth noting—the Derby-
day programme includes the
£l5OO Wakeful Stakes for
fillies (10 furlongs), a race
which usually provides a pre-
view of the Oaks; the six-
furlongs Smithfield Handicap,
and the £2OOO Cantala, a race
which usually attracts the best
milers in the land. On his
form so far this spring. South
Australia’s Matrice should have
an outstanding chance in this
year’s Cantala.
Since 1930, when Phar Lap
won the Melbourne Cup at
11 to 8 ort (hottest favorite in
Cup history), winning favorites
have been Peter Pan, Marabou,
The Trump (equal), Rivette,
Dark Felt (equal), Sirius,
Dalray and Rising Fast,
Melbourne racegoers have
an affectionate regard for Red-
craze, and the big crowd at
Moonee Valley gave the aged
gelding a Melbourne Cup
reception when he caught
Prince Darius on the line in the
£5500 W. S. Cox Plate. There
was no suggestion of luck
about old Red’s win. Prince
Darius had a winning break
into the short Valley straight,
but, vigorously ridden by
George Moore, Redcraze
showed a ton of courage to
wear the colt down over the
last hundred yards.
Pandie Sun’s third in the
Cox Plate was as good a Mel-
bourne Cup trial as was seen at
Moonee Valley. The Valognes
horse, whose spring campaign
has been aimed at the big
Flemington race, drops from
9.4 to 8.7 in the Cup, and at
the weights he should defeat
both Redcraze and Prince
Darius.
The £3500 first-prize, plus
the £250 trophy, took Red-
craze’s earnings to a new high
of £71,481. It must have been
a little grim for Arthur Ward,
who has been associated with
Red in most of his wins but
who rode Prince Darius on
Saturday, to be pipped by the
aged champion.
• • • •
Lord Gavin ran right up to
his excellent Caulfield Cup
fourth to take last Saturday’s
Moonee Valley Gold Cup. The
four-year-old Black Pampas
gelding is a slow beginner, but
the muddling pace in the early
stages at the Valley enabled
him to keep in touch' with the
leaders, and Ron Hutchinson,
Victoria’s best rider over a
distance, sooled Lord Gavin to
a winning break on the turn
that stood him in good stead
when late challenges came from
Fighting Force and South Aus-
tralian Newstone. It was good
to see Lord Gavin win an
important handicap. Handi-
cappers early assessed the geld-
ing’s potential ability, before
he had a chance to prove it in
races, and Lord Gavin has
actually been giving weight to
better-performed horses.
• • • •
As noted here a couple of
weeks back, Fighting Force
improves with racing, and he
should be at his best for the
big Flemington race.. New-
stone suffered a severe check
at the two-furlongs post, and
he, too, could run well in the
Melbourne Cup.
* • • •
Most racegoers at Moonee
Valley took a disinterested view
of the St. Alban’s Stakes, first
division, in which Sydney colt
Gabonia started a 6-to-l-on
favorite. Even that quote was
nominal most bookmakers
refused to lay any price about
the colt’s chances. Gabonia
duly won easily, and left the
impression that he is a better
galloper than his stablemate
Mighty Kingdom. Although
Sydney-trained, Gabonia is
owned by Melbourne rabbit-
exporter J. A. McCraith.
• • • •
Neville Sellwood had a
profitable day at Moonee


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF MEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO DOROTHY ALWYN McKELLAR
late of Warners Bay Road Mount
Hutton.—TAKE NOTICE that JOHN
ALFRED McKELLAR has tiled a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4458 of 1956 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Kfng Street
Sydney by the 31st December 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from McCOY GROVE & ATKIN-
SON, Solicitors, of 10 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Valley. He rode the winners of
both divisions of the St.
Alban’s, and made it a treble
when he scored on Adelaide
sprinter St. Kevin in the
Dundonald Welter. Jim Cum-
ming, who trained Comic
Court, prepares St. Kevin. It
wasn’t much of a field, but St.
Kevin won so easily that he
might pick up a more important
race before Melbourne’s Spring
Carnival is over.
• « • •
Weakness of Victoria’s
Derby candidates was empha-
sised when Goldbury won the
Greenvale Handicap. On
previous form, Goldbury is
only moderate, and the chances
of any of the colts that finished
behind him running even a
place in the Derby can be
forgotten. Goldbury would
have trouble getting further
than a mile.
Monte Carlo has settled
down well in Melbourne. This
writer had a look at last year’s
dual Derby winner, and, on
appearance, Monte is back to
his best. However, the big
Flemington race this year is
most open, and one could
nominate half-a-dozen horses
and still miss the winner.
—Also Run
When Bill Cook returned to
weigh-in after the brilliant
three-year-old My Peter had
been defeated in last Saturday’s
Rosehill Flying Handicap a
small section of paddock
patrons handed out comments
like “It’s back to the ole
rockin’-chair for you, Bill!”
Bill, long in the tooth, and at
all times undisturbed by out-
bursts, touched his cap with
his whip in acknowledgment
and joined in the laugh. As
the race was run, and at the
difference in the weights, My
Peter had little chance of
reversing the positions with
Diamond Vista, who ran the
six furlongs in close to record
time.
• • • •
Though trainer Frank
McGrath may have been
surprised at the plunge on the
four-year-old On Line in the
First Parramatta Stakes at
Rosehill, especially as the
owner (J. Wren), who wasn’t
present,, is a non-bettor, there
were some punters who either
anticipated the win or who
backed the horse on track-
work, because his form had
been mediocre and he hadn’t
yet won a race. The price
tumbled from 40 to 1 to sevens.
The well-known livery, white
jacket, black sleeves and white
cap, has been worn by some
smart gallopers, and On Line
might go on to better things.
He was capably handled by
Stan Cassidy, one of Sydney’s
best lightweights. Costing
350gns. as a yearling at the
Randwick auction in 1955, the
Chateau Roussel (imp.) gelding
is from an imported mare,
Straight Putt by Straight Deal,
Prince Delville appears in the
pedigree.
• • • •
Good reports about the
country and provincial winning
form of Facleigh resulted in a
confident move for the four-
year-old gelding in Rosehill’s
Second Parramatta Stakes, and
Facleigh made no mistake.
With the leaders most of the
way, he registered his fourth
successive win, beating
Amanullah, who has now run
five seconds on end. The
winner is by Facsimile (imp.)
from Kaimiro by Gynerium
(imp.). Fawzia, a weight-for-
age winner in Perth, figures in
the pedigree, as do Pandava
and Creditor, two good winners
in past years.
• • • •
Turning into the straight in
the Rosehill Handicap, Gay
Lover appeared to hold an
unassailable lead, but stopped
as the pressure was applied,
and missed a place.' Last win
was at Randwick about seven
months ago. Maybe he had
worked well on the track,
because he was- keenly fancied,
though owner Lionel Israel
hasn’t an exalted opinion of the
gelding. The winner, Grand
Charles, must have been half
a furlong behind 'Gay Lover
at the home-turn, yet he won
by four lengths ; he’s partial to
Rosehill.
• • • •
Handed out as the “good
thing” of the day, Top Ruler
let backers down in the Rose-
hill Welter, finishing sixth. He
sports the Tulloch colors, and
some close followers of the
T. J. Smith stable, who don’t
bet in pennies, stayed in Sydney
to be on the supposed “put in
and take out” bet, rather than
go to Melbourne to back Red-
craze in the Cox Plate. The
stable won the opening race at
Rosehill with Jazz Singer, a
two-year-old gelding by
Damnos (imp.) from Regal
Gold.
• • • •
Considering he had twice
finished second in Randwick
events in* recent outings, Lord
Terrance was at generous odds
for the Auburn Stakes at Rose-
hill, firming from 7 to 1 but still
starting at 11 to 2. He was
well handled by Les Poy, a
midget apprentice who’s riding
in good form. The Auburn
Stakes was restricted to appren-
tices with a 71b. allowance, and
was a keen contest. The gelding
is a five-year-old by A 1 Wassat
(imp.) from Ajixa, a winner of
the A.J.C. Gimcrack Stakes.
Most of Lord Terrance’s
relatives were speedsters, but a
notable stayer in the family
was Mountain King.
Rosebery trainer Percy
Gutteridge has been winning
races lately at Newcastle
fixtures. Scotch Lassie was one
of his recent winners, and
Persian Cloud kept up the goocf
work at the latest meeting,
when she had an easy task in
the Maiden Handicap. Persian
Cloud is another of the success-
ful progeny of Persian Book
(imp.), and is from an
imported dam, Skywards by
Fairway. A cheap yearling at
120gns, she was bred by Jack
Mandel. Chief among the
Persian Books so far are
Prince Darius and Book Link.
Skywards won races in Ireland.
There are more grey horses
about these days than in any
earlier period of Australian
racing. Naturally v they are
winning their shale in the
various States, though there
doesn’t appear to be a top-
notcher in the ranks. Clear
Profit (four years) and Windsor
Grey (five years), two smart
ones of the color, were among
Canterbury midweek winners.
Clear Profit is trained by J.
Mulry, Windsor Grey by P. F.
Mulry, and both horses are
from Regal Bride. They get
their color from their sires.
Dentur (imp.) sired Clear Profit
and William the Fourth (imp.)
sired Windsor Grey. Regal
Bride traces back to Musket
(imp.), sire of Carbine. Bred in
1945, she is by Sir Regal Fox
(imp.) from Chevelure by High-
field.
• • • •
The only progeny of St.
Magnus (imp.) catalogued for
the Randwick sales last year
was the brown filly from Palmy
(imp.) by Winalot from
D’Oraine by Haine. Named
Majestic Palms, she had a run-
away win in her first race, at
Wyong. Her sister, Dawson,
won several races in Tasmania,
and was also successful ' at
Caulfield.
• • • •
Canterbury Maiden Two-
year-old winner Sea Hound,
a Bold Buccaneer (imp.) geld-
ing, is from the Golden
Sovereign (imp.) mare Capti-
vate, who has thrown a number
of winners and was herself
smart enough to win at Rand-
wick and at Rosehill.
Nilo (imp.) had a couple of
winners and minor placegetters
at . the Doomben meeting.
Winners were Duckaroo in the
First Two - year - old and
Wolkara in the Second Novice.
Duckaroo is from Evermine, a
maye by AI Dakhil (imp.) from
Hero Glad by Heroic from
Gladioli by Ethiopian (imp.).
An interesting winner at
Trentham (N.Z.) was Sarcelle,
raced by Mrs. F. Roberts, wife
of a Riccarton trainer and
breeder of the filly. Sarcelle is
by Oman (imp.) from Citril by
Defaulter from Citoyenne by
Chief Ruler (imp.) or Robes-
pierre (imp.). She won the
Desert Gold Stakes of £2OOO
(one mile), beating Marie
Brizard and Mindanao. The
unplaced lot included Monte
Carlo’s sister, Del Monte.
Citril was a good performer
in New Zealand, winning 10
races and £10,345 in stakes.
Bloodlines include Wine Lover,
a winner of the South Aus-
tralian Oaks and S i r e s’
Produce Stakes.
“Postillion”: Veteran N.Z.
trainer Jack Cameron, who
lately passed on at Hastings,
first hit the big-time with his
plain, awkward-looking bay
horse The Hawk. Winner of
£28,201 in stakes, The Hawk
toppled such stars of the 1920’s
as Beauford, Heroic, Manfred,
Whittier and The Night Patrol.
Holder for years of both the
six-furlongs and the one-mile
records for Australasia, The
Hawk was an iron horse who
raced for 11 seasons. Then he
retired to luxury living in
Cameron’s stable, where he
was tended like a baby until
he died in £951 at the ripe old
age of 33. The average life-
expectancy of a racehorse is
14-16 years.
* * *
They couldn’t have named
him better! Making it eight
wins out of nine starts, Sky
High (from the 12yd. mark)


WHY SUFFER FROM
RHEUMATISM
OR
ARTHRITIS?
THIS WILL INTEREST YOU
When Mr. R. A. Stratton was given an old Indian formula for
the relief of Rheumatic complaints some 30 years ago, he had no
idea that one day he would be sending the Powder around the
world to relieve sufferers. Naturally, as a strong, robust youth,
I thought little about it at the time, said Mr. Stratton, **but in
later years 1 became a chronic Arthritis sufferer myself, so I had
the formula made up by a chemist and took a course of the
Powder for some months, which effected a complete cure.
“I naturally sympathised with anyone else who had been
similarly afflicted, so I decided to have the Powders prepared
in commercial quantities so I could help the numerous sufferers
from Rheumatism and Arthritis, and I must confess the results
have been amazing.”
The Company started selling the
Powder some 3 years ago, and for
a start its sales were limited to
this State, but, as a result of its
success, it was quickly acclaimed
a WORLD DISCOVERY and its
fame spread throughout Aus-
tralasia and Overseas until we now
have a world-wide clientele of
over 20.000 and we have obtained
an enviable reputation for our
ability to bring relief to all types
of RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS.
This result, we are proud to say,
has been achieved without the use
of harmful drugs or painful injec-
tions.
Amazing reports from all parts of
Australia are daily being received
by our RHEUMATIC CON-
SULTANT telling of the wonderful
results obtained by sufferers who
have long sought for a safe and
effective remedy for the relief of
their complaints, and many satis-
fied users have been pleased to
recommend the treatment to their
friends which speaks volumes for
the effectiveness of the Remedy.
The Treatment Advice and In-
struction Pamphlet which aecom-
pany the Powder tells you in
simple, sincere and straightforward
language the correct methods to be
used in order to successfully over-
come a Rheumatic condition and
enables sufferers to obtain by post
the same help and assistance they
would receive from a personal in-
terview with our Consultant, and
we are proud to state that by
means of our PERSONALISED
SERVICE we have revolutionised
the treatment of RHEUMATISM
and its allied complaints through-
out Australia.
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC and
ARTHRITIS POWDER by a
unique combination of its drug
free ingredients can only do good
and cannot harm the system.
It does not affect the heart nor
will it interfere with any other
Treatment, but seeks by natural
means to effectively remove the
cause of your complaint.
Harmless to take, all that Is
necessary is one teaspoonful of
Powder daily—nothing could be
simpler.
Thousands have been relieved
from suffering. WHY NOT YOU?
A . . . 4 WEEKS’ SUPPLY CARTON, Instruction Pamphlet,
TREATMENT ADVICE and SPECIAL CONCESSION
RATE VOUCHER if your complaint needs further
treatment ... costs only £1 POST FREE. Send to:—
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER Pty. Ltd.
9 BARRACK ST., PERTH, W.A.
won the Invitation Thousand
at Sydney’s Harold Park by a
nose from Sibelia (scr.). These
two pacers have filled the first
two placings in the major races
at the last three meetings,
Sibelia landing the Free-for-
all (11| furlongs) on October
12, and Sky High reversing the
decision by a head on the 19th.
Active Ayr, who finished a
close fourth to the pair in their
latest clash, seems to be
getting back to the form that
won him the Summer Cup last
January.
* * *
The Golfers
The 1957 Am pot golf-
tournament —72 holes, £3OOO
prizemoney—begins tomorrow,
October 31, at the Australian
Club, Kensington (Sydney).
Around 100 professional
golfers have entered, including
some famous overseas players ;
among the latter is South
African Gary Player, 1956
Ampol winner. Australia’s
Canada Cup reps., Peter Thom-
son and Bruce Crampton, will
compete. This year, for the
first time, four junior assistant
professionals all promising
lads specially selected by the
P.G.A.—will play, for the
experience; they will not be
eligible for the prizemoney.
On the final day, Saturday,
there are two additional attrac-
tions—exhibition by American
trick golfer Paul Hahn and a
fashion-parade of the latest
sportswear for men and
women.
Played this year in Tokyo,
the Canada Cup, golf’s “Davis
Cup,” was easily i won by
Japan (Nakamura and Ono),
nine strokes ahead of U.S.A.
(Snead and Demaret). South
Africa was third and Australia
fourth. The putting of the
Japanese was really amazing.
Nakamura also won the
individual title. Previous
winners of the Canada Cup
since its inception in 1953 have
been Argentina, Australia
(Thomson and Nagle) in 1954,
and U.S.A. for the past Two
year,'.
* * *
Assorted Sports
One or two results, in brief:
In Sydney world amateur
snooker champion Warren
Simpson, of Sydney, won the
Australian snooker title by
defeating titleholder Bob
Marshall, of W.A., in the final.
....The W.A. Queen’s Prize
was won by 27-year-old Vic-
torian farmer Russell Cockrane,
who led the field from the
second stage onward.
“Sandgrove”: Are 15 players
enough for an English cricket-
tour, with fiv6-day Tests? Five
of the six major N.Z. associa-
tions don’t think so, but the
reconstituted Board of Control
has decided to send only that
number next year. Advocates
of a party of 16 or 17 are not
treating the board’s decision as
irrevocable. In a dry summer
W. A. Hadlee’s 1949 team (15
players) had the good record in
32 first-class matches of 13
wins, only one loss (to Oxford
University) and 18 draws. All
four Tests were drawn, thanks
chiefly to the batting of the left-
handers Donnelly (462 runs
at 77) and Sutcliffe (423 at
60.42). The latter should tour
again ; Donnelly, now retired,
lives in Sydney. All-rounder
J. R. Reid is the likely captain.
Sturt (S.A.) fast-bowler
Don Beard, whose action is
regarded by some as doubtful,
was no-balled by the square-
leg umpire in the opening
S.A.C.A. series. It was at first
thought by spectators that the
“call” was for a throw, but it
turned out that it was made
under the new rule limiting
the leg-fieldsmen behind the
wicket to two —a third fielder
had “strayed,” and been
spotted by the ump. The
umpires are watching the
rule—former N.S.W. pace-
bowler Arthur Fagan was no-
balled in a Sydney grade-match
recently when square - leg
drifted, and one or two bowlers
in Melbourne pennant-cricket
have also been called.
“Atala”: Former S.A.
opener Reg Craig has just
played four successive games
against the one club (Glenelg)
—surely a record. He played
for Prospect against Hole’s
team in the last minor-round
game last year and in its one
game while the semi-finals
were on. This season Prospect
(and Craig) met Glenelg in the
first series, and in the second,
concluded on Saturday, Craig
confronted the Seasiders yet
again, with Senior Colts, to
which he has' returned as
captain-coach after Colts had
had a year under Geoff Noblet.
* * *
For the first time in history
of the Rallye Marathon de la
Route the coveted Ladies
Cup was won by a British
team. The runners-up were
also British. Winners were
Mrs. Nancy Mitchell and Mrs.
Joan Johns, in an MGA ;
runners-up Miss Pat Moss and
Miss Ann Wisdom. The latter
pair drove a Morris Minor
1000, this being the first time a
British car of under 1000 c.c.
has ever completed the course.
The course, incidentally, covers
3000 miles through Germany,
Austria, Italy, Yugoslavia,
France and Belgium.
* * *
“L. 8.5.”: Schoolboy fiction
became reality when a recent
Rugby Union match between
Auckland (N.Z.) and Waikato
ended in a 14-all draw on
Auckland’s Eden Park, once a
shallow lake. With only
seconds left, Auckland trailed
11-14. Then one of its players
fielded a penalty-kick well
behind his own goal-line and
set off hopefully for the
Waikato line 120yds. away.
His captain and two others
joined him, and swept right
through Waikato, best pro-
vincial side in N.Z. and Spring-
bok-conquerors, to score the
equalising try. Diminutive
All Black captain “Ponty”
Reid led Waikato, which was
drilled for years until last
season by astute R. A. Everest,
coach on the recent All Blacks’
tour of Australia.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
Missing Friend
FREDERICK ROBINSON VYNER, born
1857. —Information is required as to
his whereabouts or the date and place
of his death.—PERMANENT TRUSTEE,
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
The OVERLANDER SONG
BOOK : 58 songs with music. Aus-
tralian folk songs, including songs
ol the Shearers, Drovers, Bush-
rangers, Diggers, Station Elands,
Convict Days. 127 pages,
illustrated. 8/- post free.
GEORGIAN HOUSE,
Publishers,
Box 52, Albert Park, Vic,
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Want*
To sell Bulletins Nos. 3698,
3699, 3700 and 3701. (In good con-
dition.)—66oB.
To buy The Penance of Brother
Alaric, by Graham. —6611.
To buy Night of Flame, by Dyson
Carter.—66o9.
To buy Boatbuilding, by Howard
S., Chapelle (a complete handbook
of wooden-boat construction) and
Pyrotechnic Treasure. —6610.
1 recently bought a Singer sewing-
machine No. 66 (oscillating hook),
which, though quite a recent model,
in some way or other is without the
usual attachments. The Singer
company where it was bought was
unable to supply them. Can any
reader help?
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of South Australian
place-name Willabalangaloo?
Information Sought
Brief outline of the ancient story
oj Pyramus and Thisbe?
Pyramus, “a most beautiful
young man,” and Thisbe, “more
lovely than all the girls of the East,”
lived next door to each other in
Babylon, and fell in love. Their
parents forbidding their marriage,
they planned to elope, and agreed
to meet at the tomb of Ninus, where
was a tall mulberry-tree covered
with snow-white fruit. Thisbe
arrived first, and while waiting was
frightened into hiding by the appear-
ance of a lioness smeared with
blood. As she fled her veil dropped,
and was torn-up by the lioness.
When Pyramus arrived, he found
the blood-stained veil, believed
Thisbe to be dead, and stabbed
himself to death. Thisbe then
returned, realised that Pyramus had
killed himself for love of her, and
slew herself with the same sword.
Before her death she prayed to the
gods that the color of the mulberry,
stained by their blood, be for ever
dark as a memorial to their deaths.
The story is told by Ovid in his
Metamorphoses. Shakspeare bur-
lesques it in the play within the play
in Act V of “A Midsummer-
Night’s Dream.”
* * * *
(1) What is the procedure by
which the assistance of the com-
pany squad of the N.S.W.
Criminal Investigation Branch is
secured ? (2) What protection in law
has the informer ? (3) Is it
incumbent on the squad to disclose
the source of the information upon
which it sets about an investigation ?
_ (1) The assistance of the company
squad of the C. 1.8. may be obtained
by going to the officer-in-charge of
the C. 1.8. and placing before him
the facts sought to be investigated.
"Silly me! Here I am talking about myself when I Want YOU to talk about me!”
(2) If an informer has been guilty of
a crime the fact that he is an
informer does not give him any pro-
tection, at law. In practice the
informer is sometimes not charged.
There are exceptions in a number of
cases where the information has
been obtained from a person by some
compulsory process of the law
itself. (3) The company squad is
not compelled to disclose the
source of its information, but
perhaps does so in exceptional
circumstances.
* * * *
(1) Aboriginal words for hornet,
wasp or mosquito ? (2) Some
aboriginal names for a house ? (3)
Meaning of aboriginal word
Yarrabah ?
(1) No words for hornet and wasp
in available lists. Awinya, Kalla-
r.arra mean mosquito; Coopla-
curripa is place of mosquitoes. (2)
For a suitable name, knowledge of
locality and its characteristics is
probably needed; also, a name can
be chosen for euphoniousness alone.
Here are one or two names, at
random: Akora, Arura, hut or
camp; Alawoona, place of hot
winds; Amanga, here; Anunaka,
ours; Arapala, full moon;
Binnowee, green place; Bullara,
rainbow; Cooinda, Karingal, happy
place; Indalinga, native woman’s
name; Mirambeena, welcome;
Moonya, dwelling; Ulaka, flower;
Warawara, far away. (3) Yarrabah
is not in The Bulletin’s reference-
lists. Similarities and their meanings
are: Yarrabee, gum forest;
Yarrabin, white gumtree; Yarramie,
little creek.
Brief Answers
Sanasi: Sorry, but it would be
like looking in the haystack. No
record is kept of pars., “unusual”
or otherwise; to find that one
would involve going haphazardly
through the files G.G.: Your
letter has been forwarded to
“R.A.McC.”... .P.A.: (1) Write
U.K. Information Office, Prudential
Building, St. George’s Terrace,
Perth (W.A.). (2) To buy a copy
of the Wolfenden Report, write Her
Majesty’s Stationery Office, York
House, King’s Way, London, W.C.2.
. ...J.8.K.: “Kurkulli” is an
aboriginal word meaning “bandi-
coot” —possibly the word you are
looking for... .Satel.: Once Round
the Sun, by Ronald Fraser,
reviewed on the Red Page last week
(B. 23/10/’57)... .Miss K.W.S.:
Write Brisbane “Courier-Mail,”
Brisbane “Telegraph” or Too-
woomba papers. In the meantime
try your hand at freelance-writing—
say, for “The Australian Woman’s
Mirror” Yarraman: Both usages
are correct L.C.T.: Try any of
Melbourne’s sport-stores.... J.M.:
Write Angus and Robertson, 89
Castlereagh Street, Sydney G.H.
and J.M.W.: Write U.K. Informa-
tion Office, Prudential Building,
Martin Place, Sydney....J.C.McG.:
Unable to single out any in
particular, but suspect a few of them
may have changed their names....
J.A.K.: Generally speaking, women,
once past the child-bearing age, live
longer than men. No statistics
available. In B. 9/10/’57, on the
Society pages, “Uramao” quoted
recent figures issued by N.Z.’s
Social Security Department show-
ing that there were 22 female
centenarians in N.Z. (no male) and
of 154 pensioners from 95 to 99
years 143 were women S.R.C.:
Australia makes various and varying
contributions. In 1955 Australia
gave $566,720 to Unicef, $112,000
to U.N.R.W.A. (same as previous
year) and $112,000 (double that o(
1954) to Unref. Australia also con-
tributes in various ways to the
Colombo Plan ($ll million in
1955) .. .G.H.H.: (1) A conven-
tion met at Montgomery (Alabama)
and elected Jefferson Davis President
of the “Confederated States” of
America. (2) South Carolina passed
an “ordinance of secession” follow-
ing the election of Abraham Lincoln
as President; six other “slave-own-
ing” States joined her (Mississippi,
Florida, Alabama, Georgia,
Louisiana and Texas). (3) Very
little. (4) No. (5) The origin of
Yankee is believed to derive from
the Dutch Janke, diminutive of Jan,
John; it was applied by early Dutch
settlers of New York to English
colonists. In the American Civil
War it was used disparagingly of
the Northern soldier by the
Southerners.... 8.W.: Registrations
of motor-vehicles in Australia on
Dec. 31, 1955, and Dec. 31, 1956,
were, respectively motor-cars,
1,419,732, 1,526,744; commercial
vehicles, 665,608, 694,439; motor-
cycles, 129,294, 123,815
C.H.M.: (1) Extraction by tweezer
is the safest method: cutting tends
to coarsen the growth. Nasal hairs
can sometimes be weakened by
application of peroxide-of-hydrogen;
follow directions on bottle. There
are many new depilatories on the
market, some of which could be
tried. A drastic clearance should
not be made, as these hairs protect
the delicate nasal tissues from dust
and foreign bodies. If a serious


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EVELYN NELLIE DU VAL late of
17 Allenbv Road Orange N.S.W.—TAKE
NOTICE that HAROLD WILLIAM DU
VAL has tiled a Petition for Divorce
No. 3281 of 1957 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and of
habitual drunkenness and neglect of
domestic duties during three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Bth January 1958 and
obtain a copv of the Petition without
charge from' MESSRS. ROBERTSON
PARKHILL ROFE & MOFFITT, Soli-
citors, 79-81 Pitt Street, Sydney, in
the State of New South Wales. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE BUTLER late of 22
Western Street Panania. —T A K E
NOTICE that FRANCES BUTLER has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3432
of 1957 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by Bth January 1958
and obtain a copy of the Petition' without
charge from J. BIRNIE JACKSON &
COATES, Solicitors. 117 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NANCY OLIVE MONTAGUE late
of Abercrombie Street Redfern.—TAKE
NOTICE that NEVILLE GILBERT
MONTAGUE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2790 of 1957 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under Section 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
Bth January 1958 and obtain a copy of
the P' eition without charge from J.
BIRNIE JACKSON & COATES, Soli-
citors, of 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALBERT OWEN WALKER late of
7 English Street Camperdown.—TAKE
NOTICE that DAWN MAREE WALKER
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3177 of 1957 on the ground of habitual
drunkenness and cruelty. If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by Bth January
1958 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from J. BIRNIE JACK-
SON & COATES, Solicitors, 117 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
embarrassment, consult a skin-
specialist rather than experiment
yourself. (2) A. Musgrave, Curator
of Entomology, Australian Museum,
Sydney, to whom your question was
referred, states that he cannot
identify the insect from your
description. He suggests you secure
a specimen and forward it to the
museum or to the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Farrer Place,
Sydney, for identification... .N. W.:
“Mesdames” is the English plural ot
“madam”—and of “madame.”
“Madams” is in the dictionary, but
has a limited application. The
correct pronunciation of “mesdames”
is “may-dam”; colloquially, how-
ever, it is usually “mes-dames”....
F.H.T.: (1) Write N.S.W. Ship-
lovers’ Society, 16 Bridge Street,
Sydney. (2) Write Australian
Genealogical Society, 91a Phillip
Street, Sydney... .A.J.E.: For
information on the New State
movement write Ulrich Ellis,
Canberra, A.C.T A.V.: As far
as is known, they are no relation.
. ...J.H.: No, his pension wouldn’t
continue in those circumstances....
Frances: There is no record of those
books having been reviewed at any
time by The Bulletin C.E.:
Permission is granted, provided due
acknowledgment is made to The
Bulletin E.Y., K. de W. and
others: Yes, Brigalow, by R. S.
Porteous, is at last in print, and is
available from Angus and Robert-
son, 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
... .Alan B.: The Writer’s Trade, b'y
L. A. G. Strong (1953), available in
Sydney public libraries, might give
you a pointer or tw0....J.5.: (1)
No. H. J. Gardiner rode Newhaven
to victory in the 1896 Melbourne
Cup. Trainer was W. S. Hieken-
bolham. (2) Unable to trace....
G. : (1) The Church of England
is the estabiished Church ot the
Realm. Its form of worship is
embodied in the Book of Common
Prayer. (2) Write Principal, Moore
Theological College, Carillon
Avenue, Newtown (N.5.W.)....
R.W.H.: Not aware of any shares
being offered by the co., but it is
inviting deposits at rates of interest
up to 12| p.c. The balance between
security and yield is one for the
individual investor to decide for him-
self—one doesn’t look for a great
degree of security at p.c
A.R.8.: They sold at 19s. in
September. No later quotes avail-
able R.R.S.: (1) Instalments
certainly seem excessive. (2) No,
that’s right Canbare: (1) Lower
stamp-duties. (2) Scrip on A.C.T.
registers is liable for smaller stamp-
duty on transfer. (3) Yes....
E.W.G.: Thanks for your praise of
The Bulletin’s handling of the
“cement fracas” (B. 9/10/’57)....
J.S.: Ditto for “The Sky the
Limit” (B. 25/9/’57) —on the ever-
increasing growth of the public
service. Will consider your sug-
gestion to “print 200,000 copies and
distribute them here and there”
H. Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., state that there is no record
cf the Hexapla version of the Bible
being available at the present time.
W.F.: It can be touched-up
successfully, but it would have to
be seen before a price could be
quoted H.D.C.: Your question
was referred to the International
Radio Co. Pty., Ltd., Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, which replied that
it could not help you in any way.
However, it suggests that it might
pay to contact some of the other
radio-manufacturers, who may be
able to help y0u....D.W.: Sorry
that a copy of Handy Hints for the
Farm was not forthcoming; but it’s
“My ghost-writer.”
very hard to come by . a copy
nowadays... .F.J.C.8.: Agapanthus
is “a small genus of South African
herbs of the lily family” ( Webster’s ).
As to its being a “term used
derogatorily of a wife or woman” —
you’re here thinking of “Bo’s” wife,
in his humorous sketches. The use of
the name has no significance; it was
chosen purely far its potential
humor. Nor is its use any more
derogatory to Woman than is
“Bo’s” first-person narrator
derogatory to Man.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributor , voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
M.K.: Run to seed A.A.:
Ultra pretty-pretty... .R.R.: You’ve
had it....J.C.: Disjointed and
dreary F.V.: A straight-left
ended your boxer’s career....
T.D.D.: “Ode to Sputnik”
■ spluttery.... D.P.: All primary-
colors, no pastels.. . .S.L.D.: “I
thought I’d send a verse or two.”
Well, they got a couple of glances.
N.P.: There’s a thought in
“L’Arbre Mort,” but you overstate
the case W.A.E.: “Enclosed is
a poem I have written. You will
most probably think it stinks but
personally I don’t think it’s too
bad.” Well, it’s like the curate’s
egg L.H.: Perpend:
Tongues of light broke forth in pas-
sionate bursts,
And came to drink dawn’s wine, an
hundred thirsts.
Apart from the fact that it’s much
too much, and gives you no hope of
rising to a climax after such an
opening, wouldn't it mean that those
tongues of light were drinking them-
selves ? ... -H. de V.: Nothing new
in the rain-poem... .M.D.: It goes
simultaneously and unevenly in
several directions... .F.A.: “I did
this in 1916.” Giad you’ve owned-
up at last G.P.: Very rhapsodic.
, ...1.H.R.: Thank you for sending
your poem about blowflies....
L.W.: Did you mean “sin” or
“sing”? .... L.M.: An idea there,
but the last stanza is too jaunty.
What’s the turtle doing in the pic-
ture?-... .A.L.H.: Very nice typing.
. ...H.G.: Come in and sing:
Hark said the lark to the bark,
Why dost thou bark in the park,
Nowest thou not thou wakest
The pretty flowers that makest.
Mans life a joy.
And sweet girls coy',
In the beautiful nights in the dark.
... .A.McD.C.: That’s no way to
talk to Tasman... .M.E.W.: It has
the merit of being the first poem yet
written on Little Rogk. But it’s a
little rocky... .S.S.: “To preen and
eke to fitful doze.” To preen and
eke to fitful doze. To preen and eke
to fitful doze. There is, don’t you
think, something faintly inhar-
monious about that line? ... .I.G.
“Consummatum Est” the nearest.
. ...L.D.: Let’s see something
simpler... .R.G.W.:' “The Conda-
mine” doesn’t flow L.J.8.: Thanks
lor note on Dinnie. Verse not up.
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.]
. ...8.E.8.: Too much “rapturous
wonder”.,. .C. 8.: Better leave
Cobb and Co. to Will and Henry
Lawson... .D.1.F.: So far as we
know it’s the first genuine
cabbage-tree hat to appear in
poetry: —
The cabbages grew at the side of the
Manse,
They had no aroma and didn’t enhance
The scenery in which we numerous kids
Were wont to play drummers with
garbage-tin lids.
This humblest of veges which some
people scorn
Was used by Dad his bald head to
adorn.
When temperatures soared to the
nineties and more
He put a big leaf in the hat which he
wore.
....I.B.: Nothing new in “A Dry
Land” M. 8.: Try your hand
at short-stories. As verse it’s
elementary, but the observation is
good R.R.: Fair for your age.
Read all the modern Australian
poetry you can....L.5.: A faint
charm in antiquated vocabulary.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SPUTNIK
I'VVERSEAS comment ori the
Soviet's satellite has already
ffiad a pretty thorough going-
kivcr in the Australian press,
!so thorough, in fact, that, to
adapt a phrase of Malcolm
Mugger idge’s, the com-
mentators seemed more-or-less
to take a mortgage on the
future by exhausting their ideas
and vocabularies in the first
flush of excitement and leaving
little to be said thereafter.
Among the incidentals, it was
interesting to note that British
cartoon comment, of which
“Chrys’s” drawing on this page
is typical of a good deal,
seemed to enjoy a slightly sour
laugh at Uncle Sam’s expense.
That, of course, is not new.
Particularly in recent years,
British cartooning on American
themes is often acid, sometimes
savage, whereas major U.S.
cartoon comment on John
Bull’s affairs is almost in-
variably kind. Many reasons
suggest themselves. Suez, of
course, still rankles with the
British. And, no doubt, being
constantly told by British
writers that the empire is a
dead letter, John Bull would be
only human in making the
occasional jab as he watches
Uncle Sam wrestle with “the
savage wars of peace” and
sees him reaping the old,
familiar reward: “the blame
of those ye better; the hate
of those ye guard .”
Inferiority-complex? That
must be inescapable. And, of
course, much older frictions
must inevitably play their part.
Those things aside, British
and American comment
resolved themselves into sur-
prisingly few themes: the
success of Russian scientific
effort at the expense of other
aspects of Soviet life; the
military significance of the
satellite ; criticism of the West’s
social and educational systems
on the grounds that they don’t
produce enough scientists, don’t
pay enough to those they have,
or use them on the right pro-
jects anyway.
There would seem to be hints
of a contradiction here: saying,
on the one hand, that the
Soviet’s living standards suffer
because of the immense amount
of energy and resources
channelled into science ; and
then, on the other, that the
West must produce more and
more scientists, presumably to
match the Soviet effort, and,
presumably, at the expense of
some other aspect of the West’s
way of life. An article by
•William Shannon in “New York
Post” (quoted by “Manchester
Guardian”) has some bearing
on the subject:
“This country [America] has
always placed the emphasis on
technology and production, not
on pure research. We are the
people of the better gadget and
the more efficient assembly-line.
Great advances on the frontiers
of knowledge, however, are not
often made in a society which
makes a bigger pay-off to its
engineers for a better picture-
tube, or a less-noisy vacuum-
cleaner, than to its scientists for
—London "Daily Mail”
"WELL, SIR, IT’S NOT SO MUCH A SINGLE LONG
‘BLEEP’ AS A SINGLE LONG RAAAZZBERRY.”
a radically new conception of
matter or solution to an
abstruse problem in physics.
“The creation of the atomic
bomb was a classic demonstra-
tion of America’s scientific
dependence. The bomb was not
a triumph for American know-
how but for a diverse band of
exiles reared in the European
spirit of know-why. Einstein,
a German Jew: Fermi, an
Italian : Szillard, a Hungarian:
Bohr, a Dane—it was the ideas
of these and others like them
that made the bomb possible.
Great native scientists such as
Compton, Urey and Oppen-
heimer made a vital contribu-
tion, but they would be the
first to acknowledge that the
collaboration of their European
colleagues was indispensable.
“How does the United States
usually try to correct this im-
balance between technology
and science? The answer is
the ‘crash project.’ When some
project obtains a priority, we
shovel in money and teams of
men to make a massive assault
....this method falters if the
flow of money is reduced....
“Consider the alternatives
facing the college-graduate
trained in science. .. .on the
one hand, Douglas Aircraft or
General Electric beckons with
its salary and the lure of the
ranch-house, the car, and the
gleaming household appliances.
On the other hand is pure
science with its virginal $l2OO-
--year’s fellowship, its promise
of truth-seeking, and also its
future of married life in a
two-room apartment, children
delayed, and the jacket with
leather-patched elbows that is
the uniform of the needy
graduate student.”
Other typical press-comment:
Edinburgh “Scotsman” : “ ‘lt
is a magnificent step forward
in science,’ an American
scientist sportingly commented.
But the observation of an Aus-
tralian scien ti s t [Professor
Mes s e 1] —‘It has got me
worried. I have got a dreadful
feeling that we are nearing the
end’—expresses the common
reaction in the free world.”
* *
Harry Schwartz in ‘‘N. Y.
Times”: “The base has been
laid for claiming that the feat
in some way ‘proves’ the
superiority of the Soviet system
of political and economic
organisation over all others in
the world today. Thus the Tass
announcement claims:
“‘Artificial earth-satellites
will pave the way for space-
travel and it seems that the
present generation will witness
how the freed and conscious
labor of the people of the new
Socialist society turns even the
most daring of man’s dreams
into a reality.’
“Only under the Soviet
system, Soviet and Communist
propagandists are likely to
argue, could such a hisroric feat
be made. In this propaganda
campaign, if past experience is
any guide, the cost of such
achievements to ordinary Soviet
citizens who have had to pay
for them will be ignored.”
* * *
“N. Y. Times” editorial
comment: ‘‘As to the reaction
in Communist countries out-
side the Soviet Union, the news
from Warsaw may give some
clues. The demonstrations in
that city, and the police
brutality which greeted the
demonstrators, began before
the space-satellite was launched
and continued after that event
was announced. We may not
be far wrong in suspecting that
the artificial moon in the
heavens has not altered one bit
the desire of the people of
Poland and other Communist
countries for greater national
independence, greater freedom
and better living standards.
And we may wonder whether
many of the people in these
dependent countries do not
share our concern, here in the
West, over this vivid public
demonstration of increased
Soviet military might.
“Nobody asked the workers
of the Soviet Union if they
wished to have a lower living-
standard than they might other-
wise have had in order that
their country might win
primacy in the race to the stars.
If they had been asked, it
seems probable that they would
have voted to use the available
resources for their own needs.
But they were not asked and
the standard of living they now
have reflects the great unpro-
ductive expenditures the Soviet
Government makes for arms
and the like. If Mr. Khrush-
chev wants credit for the space-
satellite and the intercontinental
missile, he must also accept
responsibility for the political
tensions that have been
generated by the sacrifice these
feats required.”
* * *
London ‘‘Daily Telegraph” :
“Could it not be that a country
which has so signally failed to


make life habitable here would
naturally show more interest in
reaching for the stars? Con-
versely, could it not be that a
people who have transformed
this earth into a cornucopia
would feel less compulsion to
look elsewhere for their satis-
factions? These queries are not
prompted by envy of the
Soviet Union’s undoubted
scientific achievements. But
what does it profit a country
to gain a new world if it has,
in the process, lost its own
soul?
“Let us, therefore, have no
patience with those who con-
clude from the Soviet Union's
recent successes that Com-
munism is at last proving its
merits. Quite the opposite is the
truth. For a regime that bases
its reason for existence on im-
proving the condition of the
working-class, a space rocket is
a spectacular irrelevance.”
* * *
New York “Herald
Tribune”: “The Communist
newspaper [“Pravda”] warns
that America will have to
change its tune and revamp
its foreign policy. The beeps
from the satellite, when inter-
preted into Russian, are
accented with pride and boast-
fulness.
“Would the reaction be very
different in the United States
had Vanguard [the U.S. satel-
lite] rather than Sputnik been
the first man-made moon to
circle the skies? We doubt it.
This nation has nestled in the
misapprehension that its science
could outproduce them, its
policy outmanoeuvre them. ’The
public attitude, no less than the
Governmental approach, has
been one of smugness and
somnolence, as though America
possessed some built-in, auto-
matic superiority device which
kept it ever-triumphant. This
state of mind must be reversed
forthwith.”
• • • •
The same: “The same news-
paper that carried the news of
the satellite’s progress told also
of a curious discovery made by
American scientists probing
the ocean off West Africa.
Miles beneath the surface of
the sea, they found two
creatures, a sand-flea and a
worm. Living organisms had
never before been dredged
from so profound a depth.
The worm burrowed into
ocean floors long before man
built bombs and moons. It will
be there long afterward. It
can be left behind while man
soars towards the day ‘when
the morning stars sang to-
gether, and all the sons of God
shouted for joy,’ or it can
become again the seat of life
on a scorched and ravaged
planet. Which?”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian” :
“For five years it has been
plain that the enormous output
of the scientific institutions and
universities in the Soviet
Union was greater than that of
any Western country. Indeed,
Russia has been training for
—New York “Herald Tribune”
GENERAL ALARM
years more scientists and tech-
nologists than the whole of the
West put together. The earth-
satellite is one of the results of
the Russian educational
system. It follows that the
West cannot hope to compete
in these fields if it is not pre-
pared to train enough men.
“The Russian satellite may
rub this truth home. But how
far should the West seek to use
its resources for identical ends?
There is bound to be a cry for
earth-satellites painted with
stars and stripes —and some
people will want to see Union
Jacks carried into outer space
as well. But the most useful
thing that trained scientists can
do for Western nations (out-
side the military field) is to
develop new processes and to
perfect old ones in a way that
adds to a nation’s industrial
strength. For the time being
space travel is a sideshow,
even if a spectacular one. So
it would be well if jealousy of
the Russian achievement does
not lead to a wasting of scarce
manpower on useless tasks.
This is the way to bankruptcy.”
Sea Power
The announcement that the
last two great American battle-
ships, the lowa and Wisconsin,
are due to go into mothballs
—a similar fate was announced
for the last of Britain’s battle-
ships some time ago—-because
“aircraft have made the battle-
ships obsolete” (“N. Y. Times”)
came approximately at the time
of the Nato exercises which
prompted a British and an
American admiral to comment
that Allied naval strength had
been allowed to run down to a
dangerous degree.
The “N. Y. Times” comment
Was directed at battleships, not
at naval vessels in general:
“Sixteen-inch guns are no
longer the formidable weapons
that they were, since it is quite
possible to fight a naval engage-
ment, as was done at the Battle
of Midway, without having
capital ships come within range
of each other’s batteries. The
aircraft-carrier is now the
queen of the fleet.
“More than that, the battle-
ship, for all its speed, is
relatively cumbersome and is
a vulnerable target. It can no
longer strike with impunity at
lesser ships. This, in turn,
means that the great dread-
noughts are uneconomical.
They are expensive to build
and expensive to operate. More
effective fire-power in another
form can be had for the same
expenditure.
“This does not mean that the
role of the Navy in any conflict
is diminished. It means simply
that the weapons that the Navy
will use have been greatly
changed. The battleships were
formidable in their heyday.
That day has passed.”
On the Navy’s role in the
future, London “Time and
Tide” comments that, “as
nuclear warfare becomes
increasingly and mutually
destructive, it also becomes
increasingly unlikely except as
a last resort. The chances of
non-nuclear warfare become
correspondingly greater,
particularly as most of the real
questions at issue still seem
incapable of any solution save
that of force. We may have
reached a point where the
West is better equipped to fight
a nuclear war than an old-
fashioned one, a state of affairs
which becomes intolerable
should nuclear warfare be
ruled out.
“That aspect of the problem
was emphasised by the results
of the recent Nato naval
exercises in Northern waters.
The general purpose of the
exercises was to test the ability
of the Nato forces to keep con-
trol of the Atlantic trade-routes
against the menace of surface
raiders and massive submarine
attacks. When they were over
Admiral Sir John Eccles, Com-
mander-in-Chief Home Fleet,
said frankly that his strength
was insufficient to perform
such a task. It might have been
thought that the admiral was
referring only to the depleted
British fleet, which in any prob-
able war would have powerful
allies; but his view was
endorsed by the senior admiral
of our chief ally (U.S. Admiral
Jerauld Wright, Supreme
Allied Commander, Atlantic).
In further comment on the
admirals’ warning, “Yorkshire
Post” adds that “the kind of
Navy which Soviet Russia is
creating shows that she plans
to be in a position to strike at
the outset a crippling blow
against our [British] shipping if
ever she decides to make war
on us.
“She [Russia] already
possesses about four times as
many submarines as the Ger-
mans had at the start of the


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order for
....months’ subscription to "The Bulletin,” to be
posted weekly to —
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
last war. She could have as
many of these marauders out
on the first day of any conflict
as the Germans had at the
height of the Battle of the
Atlantic; and we know how
hard-pressed our naval forces
were in that grim struggle. She
also possesses a powerful fleet
of modern fast cruisers. Her
aim would be to unleash her
commerce-raiders in advance
of any declaration of war and
so be ready to attack our ships
on the high seas before we
could organise a convoy
system. Is it any wonder that
Admiral Eccles stressed the
point that the Navy would be
essential not only in Phase Two
of any war but right from the
outbreak?
“W h i 1 e manufacturing
nuclear weapons, the Soviet
Union is also building up con-
ventional forces as if the H-
bomb did not exist. We are
bound to ask ourselves what
are the aims behind this policy.
The Communists have already
employed the technique of the
limited war. Do they calculate
that they might succeed in beat-
ing Britain quickly to her knees
without the use of the H-
bomb? And do they further
calculate that the Americans
would hesitate to bring their
own formidable nuclear arma-
ment into play in our defence
for fear of provoking an H-
bomb onslaught on their own
cities?
“The more we study the
situation the clearer it becomes
that Admiral Wright is justified
in telling the Nato Powers that
they must have such a
combined force that they can
convince any possible enemy
that, if he attacks them on the
sea, he will fail.”
"Atomic United
Notions"
“New York Times” comment
on the first conference (in
Vienna) of the International
Atomic Energy Agency, the
purpose of which is “to make
the atom the servant and not
the destroyer of mankind, and
to demonstrate the feasibility of
atomic controls for application
to atomic disarmament”:
“Welcome as this harmoni-
ous organisation meeting is, the
real test of the agency will be
the work it is able to
accomplish. That is where
some scepticism is still in order.
Like the United Nations itself,
the ‘Atomic United Nations’
must depend on the contri-
butions of its members. And
these contributions are still
quite one-sided.
“The United States has
offered 11,0001 b. of uranium
to fuel the atomic-energy plants
and other projects to be
fostered by the agency;
Portugal has offered ore to
yield 15751 b., and other
Western nations are making
offers in proportion to their
supplies of like materials. But
the Soviets, who share in both
the direction and the research-
work of the agency, and who
have plentiful supplies for test-
ing and producing nuclear
weapons, have thus far offered
only 1101 b., and the rest of the
Soviet bloc, including
Czechoslovakia, a heavy pro-
ducer of uranium, none.
“This disproportion between
the contributions of East and
West cannot continue without
raising grave difficulties for the
contributing Western nations
that would inevitably affect the
agency itself.”
Communist Cucurbits
Something of a pickle has
arisen, comments Milwaukee
(U.S.A.) “Journal,” since
“Communist China Com-
munised cucumber production.”
—London “New Statesman ”
Vicky’s comment on British Labor’s proposal for “public
ownership” by Government acquisition of shares in public
companies.
The Chinese, apparently, like
their cucumbers “crisp . and
young,” which is the way they
had them when farmers com-
peted in the market. With
Socialised salads, however, the
State buys the lot, paying for
them not by quality, but by
size and weight. So the farmer
who produces the biggest and
heaviest cucumbers does best,
while the cucumber-consumer
does worst.
The trouble seems to be
extending “all greens and
vegetables are sapped of fresh-
ness by the cumbersome and
slow State distribution system”
—and it appears that if you
interfere with the greens of a
Red Chinese you really get his
gherkin.
Aneurin Bevan
It is a fairly common
suggestion in the British press
that, with Labor optimistic
about its chances at the next
elections, Aneurin Bevan is
preparing himself for the job
of Foreign Secretary by
throwing off some of the
apparent irresponsibilities
which, while being not un-
expected ammunition from a
member of the Opposition, are
hardly the equipment of a
British Foreign Secretary.
His speech in India a while
back in support of the British
Commonwealth surprised both
his critics and his friends and
was hailed by some as doing
much to hold India within the
Commonwealth. More recently,
at the Labor conference at
Brighton, he not only went
against the weight of Socialist
thinking, but swung it with him
to a policy on the H-bomb not
very different from that of the
present Conservative Govern-
ment.
These two moves have
certainly not done Bevan’s
reputation any harm, particu-
larly in the U.S., where, not so
long ago, it was held that one
of the greatest disasters which
tould befall Anglo-American
relations would be for Bevan
to become Prime Minister of
Britain.
At approximately the same
time as a persuasive article by
Bevan on Anglo-American
relations appeared in the U.S.
quarterly “Foreign Affairs,”
other American papers were
noting with approval his
Brighton speech on the H-
bomb. An editorial comment
in New York “Herald Tribune”
is a fair sample of the general
tone:
“When a resolution was
proposed at the [Labor] party
conference which would
commit any future Labor
Government to a unilateral
renunciation of testing, manu-
facturing and using atomic
weapons, Mr. Bevan took a
second, hard look at it. Adop-
tion of the resolution, he said,
would make a ‘shambles’ of
British foreign policy. In an
impassioned speech—and he is
no mean orator—he apparently


Missing Friend
JESSIE WINNIFRED JACKSON (for-
merly PINNER), bora in London on or
about 11/10/1896, and who was residing
in Brisbane in 1944. Would anyone
knowing the whereabouts of such person
please request her to communicate with
CHAMBERS McNAB & CO., Solicitors,
33 Queen Street, Brisbane?
liLLSiMii is
riMsßa °/ tKi it.
cellar
#*OITTMg
Original Recip«
_ 1745
1742
A l U^
(MS
?»U »?.' a * STi ff r J£* d? Pl*« thfy »a
CELLAR
hZ lilAllli'
1 «S25?!« '*’■“«<•
7 W*» Mi Gfwlw* Difhttf
i o* at *
■<v
**•£»
• it
MMTOM# m *3®®
R 35
WHITE HORSE
of course!
No other drink satisfies more
than a fine Scotch . , . and in
White Horse, Scotch
Whisky reaches pure
perfection. ...
swung a majority of the dele-
gates from voting for the resolu-
tion to the opposite side.
“Mr. Bevan apparently
realised that his hands would
be tied in any bargaining
session with the U.S.S.R. if
the resolution were adopted. It
is one thing to belabor the
Government for its policies,
but it is quite another thing
to assume the responsibilities of
office. Mr. Bevan must have
had these potential future
responsibilities in mind when
he appealed to the conference.
“To his credit, he took the
right stand despite cries of
‘shame’ and ‘rubbish’ from his
Left-wing following and in
this instance aligned himself
with the policy of the nations
of the free world. This took
courage. He is to be con-
gratulated for it.”
British Foreign Policy
Commenting on the agenda
for the British Conservative
Party’s annual conference
London “Spectator” notes with
disapproval only six resolutions
on foreign policy as against 15
on social and health services
and 35 on taxation.
Those on foreign policy —
“one calls for a plebiscite to
decide the future of Kashmir,
one for the reunification of
Germany, one blames the
Opposition for their attitude
during the Suez crisis and three
declare that British interests
must decide British foreign
policy and express varying
degress of hostility to U.N.” —
the “Spectator” describes as
“uninspiring principle s,”
indicating that the Conser-
vatives “are evidently unwilling
to see the relative decline
in Britain’s power since the
war. It was not a vote in the
[U.N.] General Assembly
which brought the Suez opera-
tions to an end. It was the fact
that Britain had embarked on a
policy which it lacked the
strength carry out without
support from the Common-
wealth and America. The
whole affair was a demonstra-
tion of the simple fact that
policies must be related to
power, and that a nation
weaker than it once was has
every interest in maintaining
standards of international
morality.”
“There are, 5 ' “The Spectator”
adds, “three areas where
British policy can most profit-
ably exercise influence in the
world today, and in these there
is no real disagreement
between the parties:
“First, Britain can bring
influence to bear on the general
course of Western policy, and
both Labor and Conservative
would agree that this ought to
be a moderating influence—
particularly in the Far East and
in questions which might
involve a head-on clash with
the Soviet Union.
“Second, ties with the Com-
monwealth can be strengthened
and, though it might seem that
one party would be inclined to
put more emphasis on the Afro-
Asian part of it than the other,
in office they have both
behaved alike. The Conserva-
tives have continued the policy
of granting independence to
colonies like Malaya or Ghana,
and the Labor party has done
nothing even to annoy the
South Africans.
“The third area of policy is
Europe, and here the parties do
differ a little in emphasis. The
present Government has been
taking cautious steps into the
Free Trade area, while some
sections of the Labor party
have barely concealed their
dislike of the whole idea. Here
is an issue on which the Con-
servatives seem to be more
firmly in the right, but the
difference is more apparent
than real.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
. .
Living Standard
It would be interesting to
know how much that extra
money spent on beer, tobacco,
cars, TV, etc., is responsible
for the decrease in money per
head spent on food and cloth-
ing (B. 25/9/’57). The lower-
paid workers cannot afford
much of these things (unless
their wives work, too) and the
very-well-paid can afford both,
But there is a group of men in
quite good positions who think
they should be able to afford
these things, when actually
they can’t.
It looks good worked out on
paper—they can meet the
monthly payments but the
estimate rarely covers the un-
expected expenses a new
baby, dentist-bills, unexpected
garage-costs, etc.
It is ludicrous to see the
wives of men earning good
salaries grumbling about having
to cut-down on the plainest
food, while they dash about in
a flash car. The last thing they
ever think of doing to raise
their standard of living is sell-
ing the car.—M. T. P. (Fiji).
Melbourne Trams & Buses
“Millions for Old Clang
Syne” in B. 7/8/’57 was worthy
only of such papers as the
Sydney “Telegraph” or Mel-
bourne “Sun,” which The
Bulletin affects to despise, and
was completely at variance with
the report on the same matter
which appeared in “The Age,”
which you profess to admire.
As pointed out in “The
Age,” the board expects to
have trams running in Mel-
bourne for many years yet and
expects to continue carrying
out improvements and possibly
extensions to the present
system. The losses in Mel-
bourne are in no way com-
parable with those of the bus-
happy Sydney concern, and
when S.A. Government grants
are taken into account they are
not even as large as those of
bus-minded Adelaide, a much
smaller system.
The Bulletin’s talk of the
public’s manifest dislike of
trams reads strangely against
the fact that the M.M.T.B. lost
only seven million passengers
last year, against a loss of 70
million in Sydney, where buses
were taking over from trams at
a great rate.
It certainly does not square
with the increase in passengers
in Bourke Street since trams
took over from buses. These
trams require 100 fewer drivers
and conductors than the buses
they replaced, a saving of con-
servatively £BO,OOO a year, or
over 3 p.c. on the investment
for that item alone. When the
much - reduced maintenance
required by the trams, the
increased patronage, and the
fact that the people concerned
voted for trams in preference
to buses are taken into account,
the investment can bq seen to
be well justified. Criticism of
the Latrobe Street line has some
foundation, although the line
has its uses ; but, as Mr. Risson
was careful to point out, he was
not responsible for it.
The private bus-operators
show no sign of agreeing that
they operate profitably; They
are always howling calamity
and saying they will not be able
to carry on, so I don’t see why
the board should not be allowed
to do likewise. Many Mel-
bourne people would like to
know where these buses which
“charge only 60 p.c. of the
board’s” fares run. There can’t
be very many of them. —•
A.J.A. (Vic.).
United Nations
It is difficult to see what
good purpose can be served
by the publication of such
articles -as “The U.N. Smoke-
screen” (B. 2/10/’57). Most
people will agree that the U.N.
has achieved singularly little
“Big brother is Watching."
during its career, and many
would consider its winding-up
a step towards peace. But
while it exists it is surely, by
definition, an assembly of ail
nations, so why object to a
further move in this direction?
But my real objection is to
the contemptuous tone used in
referring to new members.
Several, certainly, are very
new, and have still to prove
that they can develop into
nations in the true sense. All
the other members have been,
at one time, in this position.
Others have a history as
long as, and a culture not
inferior to, most of the
original members, and superior
to many.
“Half-baked” may mean
anything or nothing. “Blood-
soaked” is more definite, but
to what country does it not
apply, except our own? And
we owe the distinction more
to luck than good judgment.
Possibly the writer, despair-
ing of getting us out of U.N.
any other w>ay, is trying to get
us thrown out by insulting as
many members as possible,
but does he really feel that we
will be safer outside than in?
Perhaps he would like us to
make common cause with
Communist China, which will
soon be the only other non-
member. — Magnoon (Q.).
Sputnik
Hie Russian sky-traveller is
a culminating effort on the
part of a nation solely con-
cerned with the development of
missiles for offensive and
belligerent action. This was
the pattern of research and
development pursued by most
countries after the last war.
It was certainly the case in
the early days of Woomera.
On December 8, 1949, a
two-stage ballistic-missile was
fired at the range. It was
purely an Australian effort. A
solid-fuel booster started the
flight from a 45 - degree
launcher, the liquid-fuel jet
taking-over at altitude, drop-
ping the first-stage casing in
the process.
The theoretical range was
such that, for safety reasons,
the angle of trajectory was
kept low and cordite-rings
were fitted to blow the missile
apart when it had gone far
enough.
The trial was completely
successful.
It was not, of course, an
intercontinental weapon, nor
a satellite-spinner. Fitted to a
V 2, or something similar, in


k A
m
mm
ft
.....
%
s;
:v' ' ;.
A.M.P.
;; v - /
news for private company directors
A new plan for key men has recently been
introduced by the A.M.P. Society.
This plan has remarkable advantages in helping
you to solve your INCOME TAX and DEATH DUTY
problems.
Contact your A.M.P. Representative, or' a
telephone call to the nearest A.M.P. office will
bring you full information.
RING?!
Sydney—B 0530
Brisbane —FA 1981
Perth—BA 2001
Melbourne—Mß 1781
Adelaide—LA 2372
Hobart—B 7621
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY • GENERAL MANAGER: M. C. BUTTFIELD


place of a warhead, it would,
however, have become both.
Suitably adapted it could have
launched a satellite on an
orbit 760 miles above this
planet.
There was no thought of an
orbital satellite in those days,
and the subsequent directive
that only defensive interceptors
should be developed stopped
further experiments in the
ballistic-missile field.
This defence programme of
ours suits the Russian plan
very well indeed, since it
disrupts our economy without
strengthening our ability to
attack. It has gone far enough
for the present. A well-
publicised switch to weapons
of offence would bring
and gratifying
results. Even a satellite or two
could be sent aloft as a week-
end recreational exercise.—
Old Opencut (S.A.).
Mounted Police
On the corner of Sydney’s
Elizabeth and Market Streets,
during almost any lunch-hour
you will see three policemen and
“Our little World seems to be cracking-up fast .”
two horses doing the work
which, for the rest of the day,
is done quite efficiently by a
single policeman on point-
duty.
These mounted police are a
fine body of men, sir, mounted
on very fine horses, but if
work must be found for them
between processions they might
be used with great success
patrolling the bigger parks and
areas where undesirables lurk
at all hours of the day and
night.— Eureka (N.S.W.). -
Council Finance
No doubt some councils
have the best business brains
available to run them at little
cost to the ratepayers (B.
16/10/’57); but it is .the un-
businesslike system under which
they operate which makes them
so inefficient and costly.
Melbourne is a typical
example with its 20-odd muni-
cipalities within 10 miles of the
G.P.0., each operating
separately, each doing much
the same job, and each
having huge separate capital
investments in machinery
for road - making, cleaning,
etc. It is these investments
that are costing the rate-
payers plenty. Any business-
man will tell you the only way
to make money is to make the
capital work long hours around
the clock and around the year.
The oil-companies woke up to
this years ago when they started
delivering petrol from dawn to
midnight.
I go to work by tram each
day, and early in the morning
and late in the afternoon I pass
a council yard where the
machinery is stored. Invariably
it is filled with graders, one
steamroller, street-sweepers, tip-
trucks, etc thousands of
pounds worth of ratepayers’
non-earning capital investment.
No doubt, each piece was
bought after a full investigation
by the engineer and debate by
the council, but surely it would
be more efficient for councils
to pool their capital investment
as much as practicable.
Couldn’t the Government set
up some central body which
would control all this machinery
and hire it out? Failing that,
the only solution would be for
a greater Melbourne council in-
corporating all those fighting
the losing battle for existence
today. The “greater” type of
council should not be mis-
judged because of Labor’s
muddle of a similar situation
in Brisbane. Waddlin’
Willie (Vic.).
Road Safety
Some fatalities, injuries and
accidents on the road are
caused by the inadequacy of
roads and poor road-layouts.
The solution to this is more
money for more and better
roads, and more skilled traffic-
engineers.
Other accidents are caused by
mechanical shortcomings of
mot or-vehicles. Since com-
pulsory inspection at fixed
depots has made no worth-
while contribution in N. S.
Wales, it might be worth try-
ing snap - checks by mobile
equipment and qualified testers.
Then there are the drunken
driver and the idiot who drives
too fast for the circumstances.
They, of course, should be hit,
and hit hard.
The foregoing causes, how-
ever, account for not more than
20 per cent, of the total acci-
dents. What about the rest?
For a start, remember
Nietzsche’s “Distrust all in
whom the impulse to punish is
strong.” In W.A. last year, the
authorities, with the full back-
ing of public opinion, set-out
to enforce road-safety. In
a year, the W.A. police prose-
cuted and otherwise dealt with
a maximum number of
offenders. Yet, in that year,
the accident-rate in W.A. was
as bad as that of any other
State in Australia, and worse
than most.
On top of that comes the
report of Australian Road
Safety Council chairman T. G.
Paterson, just returned from a
survey of road-safety practices
and psychology in New Zea-
land.
There, traffic and parking is
controlled by the Transport
Department, not by the police,
and it is certain that the per-
centage of enforcement actions
instituted is substantially less
than in any State in Australia.
And on the basis of accidents
per 10,000 vehicles, New Zea-
land has about the best record
in the world and Australia the
worst.
Safety is a harvest of good
order —the good order that
stems from the self-discipline of
the individual rather than the
good order imposed by police-
men. We Australians consider
ourselves unlucky to be
“caught,” and even suffer
twinges of self-pity in not know-
ing a “high-up” to get us out
of it. I suspect the Kiwis would
rate this attitude anti-social,
because they take pride in per-
sonal courtesy and competent
driving.
The problem is how to get
Australians to see things as do
the Enzedders.
I think we can do it only
by coaxing our drivers —saying
to them, in effect, “You are
the fellows who can do it.
You are courteous and under-
standing and are good drivers.
You can make the roads safe
to be on and that’s the way
we all want it.”
Success does not lie in
enforcement, but in education.
—Chas. E. Rattles (Q.).
Municipal Libraries
Since “W.P.T.” does not
want free libraries, then he
can’t want public parks either
—he reasons that such under-
takings do not recoup their
maintenance-cost to the rate-
payer.
Well, why not charge a
borrowing-fee for the library
and an entrance-charge for the


public park? This might mean
less people frequenting the
parks and the library failing
as a commercial venture. A
water-tight excuse for abolish-
ing both undertakings!
Why do we want public
parks? To encourage in
citizens an appreciation of life
beyond material profit? Why
do we want free libraries? If
not for the same reason, then
why? Perhaps we want the
public park for health reasons.
Perhaps mental health might
come into it in the case of the
free library.
Who will deny that our
social momentum is increasing
day by day? Who then could
criticise a municipal authority
which encourages a citizen to
pause a moment in. a garden,
or to think a moment in a good
book? Surely the efforts of
these civic leaders are both
legitimate and commendable.
I do not know of anything
we obtain without payment of
some kind, and the cost of such
undertakings may well be the
price of social sanity.— Noah
(Vic.). _
Disposals for Ever
With reference to the second
paragraph of “The Bells of
St. Mary’s” (B. 9/10/’57), a
co-operative society I know
cannot buy pipe-fittings from
the ordinary wholesalers at less
than retail price less 5 per cent.
“Who’s been asleep ?”
Recently they bought a fair
quantity from a secondhand
dealer at retail price, less 20
P er cent - All were unused and
nearly all in new cond i ti(>n . a
few were slightly rusty but
serviceable. Inquiries revealed
that the dealer had bough!
them from another dealer who
bought large parcels of
assorted goods at the disposals
sales. He explained that he
hadn’t enough capital to buy
direct, as the stuff was put up
in such large lots.
I have no doubt that the
Services can buy such things
cheaper than the co-op.
referred to. But I can’t
believe that they buy cheaply
enough to stand a 20 per cent,
discount after two middlemen
have made their profit.
Perhaps Professor Bland’s
bloodhounds may care to ask:
Why the Services in peace-time
are buying pipe-fittings and
selling them at a loss; what
other goods are being similarly
dealt with, and on what scale ;
and what profit-margin the
dealers and sub-dealers are
taking?
They needn’t ask who is
meeting the loss. We all know
that. — Magnoon (Q.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 458
Across
I—Outspoken privilege of Edinburgh’s drain. x (10)
6- —Make a getaway in the secret lift. (4)
10 — A liver-worm gospeller- past forte achieves a success by
accident. (5)
11— Low-grade quarter tax. (6-4)
12 — It points to the future duck by blokes. (4)
14 — State a royal Gilbertian call from
a distance to attract attention. (5)
15 — A member of the barnyard team
gets its century by a high lofted
shot to leg. (5)
19— Gait of horse neckwear according
to Miss True. (7)
20— This has disorderly Alec out with'
spots like eyes. (7)
21 — Tax the strait-laced veteran stage
of existence. (7)
22 — The prevailing weather enables
101 to be . registered by the
spouse. (7)
23 — We hail the type of interlacement.
(5)
24 A pretty girl to turn informer. (5)
28 —A kiln to dry hops or crushed
oats. (4)
31 — Revealing art of mislaying gramo-
phone records. (10)
32 — A bed in the French dark. (5)
33 — Put a cork in kitchenware on the
way back. (4)
34 So Persians could make belittling
comments. (10)
Down
1— Home for some of the Scottish
music-maker. (4)
2 Hood, if corpulent, makes a
petition in which all signatories
are equally prominent. (5, 5)
3 Cutter confronted with long sharp
features. (7-5)
4 Nothing out of the tusk battle-
field in France. (4)
5 I Heated chop chewn by the start
of Tschaikowsky’s medley. (5-5)
6 Girl’s name. (3)
7 It comes up after a blow wherein
Lou disheartened a legislator. (4)
8— Mr. President. (3)
9 Camp dwelling on bone before
nightfall when it’s 6.50. (3, 2,5)
13 —Wrongly undo a long-term
prisoner and ring us, Knobby. (12)
16— Puts up with the final circle on
us. Isn’t it amazing? (10)
17 — Vin’s sleeve included in appatel
for a sensuous dance. (5, 5)
18 — A liqueur to deface as a feature
duck. (10)
25 — A Capital bone to behold. (4)
26 Care to change 160 perches. (4)
27 — Influential Moslem’s a fuel. (4)
29 Insect. (3)
30— Forecast extremity upset mine.
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. 457


RUSSIAN COMFREY
At REDUCED PRICES due to increasing quantities on
Green Farm, the first farm to experiment with Russian
Comfrey in Australia, the first to quote a yield on
Australian soil.
ROOT OFFSETS 45/- a dozen
CROWN OFFSETS 7/6 each
Registered post free. For airmail add 3/- for each £1 ordered.
New facilities enable immediate execution of orders, despite heavy
bookings. More than 5000 farms supplied in all parts of Australia
including Alice Springs. Glowing reports have been received of
prolific growth at dry periods of year.
Send stamped addressed envelope for my booklet. This little book
has made Russian Comfrey the most Talked about subject on
Australian farms today.
W. F. SAVAGE
Green Farm, Red Hill South, Victoria
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SPRAY-RACE DEMONSTRATION
AT historic Camden Park
Estate (N.S.W.) the other
day William Cooper and
Nephews put on a
tion of the new spray-race, the
“Port-O-Spray,” for the benefit
of a few scientific observers
such as Professor McMahon,
of the School of Wool Tech-
nology, and a larger party of
agricultural journalists.
The object of the demonstra-
tion was to show how quickly
and effectively sheep could be
treated against lice, keds and
blowfly, and in these respects
the apparatus seemed to stand
up to all claims made for it.
The spray-race consists of a
metal race about 9ft. long,
through which the sheep ran a
gauntlet of spray, coming from
20 nozzles so placed as to give
what the manufacturer’s
technical advisers consider the
most efficient coverage of spray.
For blowfly-control, some of
these nozzles are blanked off,
and an extra four along the
lower sides of the race are
used to give extra coverage of
the breech.
It is expected that
tranquillising or
“happiness” pills, so
popular in America
for humans, will soon
be available for sheep.
Lambs given tran-
quillising drugs, it is
claimed, achieve
maturity 28 per cent,
faster than when no
such drug is included
in their diet. Be
that as it may, how-
ever, there is no
doubt that lambs
marked and tailed by
Elastrator Rubber
Rings escape many
dangers of shock, set-
back and disease
which assail lambs
that are marked and
tailed by a knife.
The insecticide used is a
dieldrin preparation, made to
a special formula, and mar-
keted as spray-race fluid.
When mixed, it makes a much
stronger solution than (hat
normally used in plunge- or
“It's some daft stunt they picked up over on the coast.”
spray-dips. This stronger solu-
tion, apparently, works down
the wool-fibres gradually, giv-
ing maximum protection when
it has penetrated to skin-level,
some hours after spraying. It
is not necessary to saturate the
wool, and off-shears sheep are
treated.
Cooper’s technical director,
G. C. Brander, M.R.C.V.S.,
pointed out that though the
method was new in practice
the principle was not. In fact,
some years ago his company
had experimented with the
system, but found that the in-
secticidal materials of those
days, based on arsenic (and,
later, D.D.T. and 8.H.C.) were
not suitable. When the new
insecticides, such as dieldrin,
came in, Cooper’s began work-
ing on spray-races again,
experimenting with them for
more than four years in Britain,
South Africa and Australia,
before releasing them on the
market.
Apart from dieldrin’s other
qualities, what makes the stuff
specially useful for the spray-
race treatment, apparently, is
its ability to creep along the
wool-fibres, down to skin-level.
Brander emphasised that the
right time for treatment is just
after shearing: “One reason we
still have lice and keds is that
with normal methods of treat-
ment sheep have to be left for
about six weeks after shearing,
then remustered. In the re-
mustering, too often a few
sheep are missed, and these
carry on the infestation.”
At Camden Park the sheep
were the descendants of John
Macarthur’s flock small
fellows, compared with the
modern Merino, the flock has
been kept on by the Macarthur-
Onslow family as a sort of
specimen-group—off-shears, as
recommended. Seventy gallons
of spray was prepared by
filling two tanks along the base
of the race with water, and
mixing-in the dieldrin-solutions
—one pint of 20 per cent, con-
centrate to each 20gals. in the
tanks —and away they went.
Spray was pumped at a low
pressure of 151 b. per sq. in. (to
avoid washing the natural pro-
tective wax from the wool-
fibres, someone explained), at
the rate of lOgals. a minute.
The sheep went through at the
rate of around 50 a minute.
Fluid that missed the sheep
hit the other side of the race'
and ran back to the tanks,
where it could be filtered and
used again. It is estimated that
about 40 per cent, of the spray
can be recovered in this way.
Fluid dripping from the sheep
fell to the ground, and was not
used again.
The first batch of about 200
sheep were run through in less
than four-and-a-half minutes,
including stops when a few
lambs balked. Then —to
satisfy any doubts concerning
coverage lime-sulphur was
used in the tanks, as coloring.
Everyone seemed satisfied,
after this demonstration, that
the sheep were adequately
covered with the spray.
That point cleared up,
there could be no doubt about
the speed of the operation.
The total time for the demon-
stration was less than one-and-
a-half hour, including time for
short lectures and questions.
It was estimated that the total
actual spraying-time for the
700 sheep was less than 25
minutes, including the time
taken to recharge the tanks of
spray-fluid.
Regarding the general effec-
tiveness of the treatment, the
same flock was treated last
year, as an experiment, and A.
Thomas, the Camden Park
Estate livestock-manager, said
that he was satisfied with the
results. Only two sheep had
been struck by blowfly. Pro-
fessor McMahon also gave his
opinion that the system “repre-
sented a considerable advance
on the more orthodox
methods.”
There remained one im-
portant question— cost. The
entire apparatus (including an


optional item, the entry gate),
comes to £212 10s., f.o.r.
capital city, with an extra £5
for packing.
Sheep Fertility
“Buzoe”: In his remarks on
lambing percentages (B.
28 /8 / ’57) “J.S.W.” doesn’t give
himself enough credit—anyone
who can get 115 per cent, (or
thereabouts) of lambs from a
considerable number of ewes,
and for two or three years in
succession, has done something
important. But, at the same
time, the fact that “J.S.W.” has
got these results, and that others
can presumably do the same,
or better —seasonal conditions
permitting surely points to
the conclusion that our average
lambing is too low? And this
was “Bolivar’s” original con-
tention (B. 7/8/’57).
The answer is not, as
“J.S.W.” implies, entirely in
good seasons, or good manage-
ment, which provide the extra
nourishment to flush the ewes.
Flushing ewes is part of good
management, which one expects
from all capable breeders. The
fact that it is neglected by many
graziers is beside the point—one
still has a right to expect it on
a well-managed property.
“Bolivar’s” argument, as I
understand it, is that flushing,
and other recognised aspects
of good management, will not,
of themselves, ensure the same
results as the carefully con-
trolled breeding for multiple
births {plus, of course, good
management) will ensure.
Fertility is hereditary, and,
like all other characteristics of
stock, can be improved or fixed
by selective breeding; or, on
the other hand, by neglect it
can be bred-out.
Very sound support for this
belief comes from Martin
Lenthall, the leading breeder
of Dorset Horn sheep in
England, who has said that
Australian breeders have done
away with some of the charac-
teristics of the old breed,
including milking capacity and
lajnbing percentages. Lenthall
said he never uses a lamb for
breeding unless it is a twin.
It seems that much the same
thing has happened in New
Zealand, where sheepbreeders
are complaining about lower
percentages from Romney
Marsh —one of the most fertile
of breeds. Apparently the
tendency to breed a Romney
Marsh with the conformation
of a Southdown has resulted
in a loss of fertility.
To turn to another point
raised by “J.S.W.” there is
no climatic reason why our
lambing percentages should be
so much lower than those of
Britain and New Zealand ; at
least, there is no climatic reason
why the percentages should be
low disproportionately in estab-
lished farming areas in Aus-
tralia.
Taken by and large, our
climatic conditions are more
favorable than they are in the
U.K. Admitted, we don’t give
our sheep the attention, especi-
ally at lambing, that they
deserve. That is our mistake,
and a grave one, which
accounts for many of the losses
at and immediately after birth
—losses not only of lambs, but
of ewes.
There is no need to hand over
the problem of improving the
fertility of our sheep to
scientists. This is work which
could be part of the sheep-
breeder’s annual plan, in
his own interest, and it can be
best demonstrated, and most
quickly, by the studbreeders.
It is not difficult to give
lambs of multiple b(rth a
distinguishing mark, and, later,
to breed from them: it’s just
an extra chore, and a fairly
small one in the total of selec-
tion and record-keeping of a
big stud.
It is possible that “J.S.W.’s”
good lambing-percentages were
not entirely due to the good
seasons and flushing the ewes
at the right time (although, of
course, these things must be
given due weight), but to other
factors which he has failed to
take into account. For instance,
“J.S.W.” may have used a
proportion of rams which,
unknown to him, were of twin
birth.
Orcnge Field Day
The organisers of the 1957
Orange Field Day report that,
when entries officially closed,
the number of separate display
GOING THROUGH THE SPRAY-RACE AT CAMDEN PARK
blocks for exhibitors was 50
per cent, higher than last year,
when E. H. Graham, the
N.S.W. Minister for Agricul-
ture, described it as “the great-
est of its kind in Australia,
and possibly the world.” This
year the Orange Field Day will
be held on Tuesday, Wednes-
day and Thursday, November
19, 20 and 21.
Each display block will be
40yds. deep. Displays will
be concentrated in a central
area containing four parallel
streets, with a total frontage of
some three-quarters of a mile.
This, the organisers point out,
will greatly reduce the walking-
distance for visitors, enabling
them to see all displays more
easily than last year, when
display blocks were spread
around the perimeter of the
comparative demonstration
area.
Areas for comparative de-
monstration will radiate from
this concentrate display-block
like spokes from the hub of a
wheel.
Exact details of each ex-
hibitor’s display are not known
yet, but several new models
will be released, there 'will be
strong emphasis on farm-
chemicals, water-storage, irri-
gation, farm sheds, and orchard
equipment, and several new
implements (that is, implements
which comply with the Orange
Field Day Committee's rather
strict definition) will be intro-
duced. Complete ranges of
equipment will be shown by
several large manufacturers.
Three separate organisations
will demonstrate spreading
fertiliser from aircraft,
Department of Agriculture
officers will use a closed-circuit
TV-system to show pest-identi-
fication, post-mortem examina-
tion, weed-identification, and
advanced techniques in orchard
work, there will be special
exhibits of reafforestation,
soil-conservation, and technical
education by the relevant Gov-
ernment departments, welding
competitions, and the like.
From inquiries to,date, the
committee expects “substanti-
ally more” visitors this year


than last year’s 28,000. Camera-
men from the three metro-
politan TV-stations will be
there, also cameramen for
newsreels.
Capless Packs
“L.”: The Department of
Primary Industry has estimated
that use of capless wool-packs
could save about £400,000 a
year at today's prices for jute
if the whole of the Australian
wool-clip were packed in this
manner.
At present only a small per-
centage of wool is being packed
in capless packs, but growers
who have tried, the method are
satisfied with the results. They
found the bales of wool were
more uniform in shape, and
were easier to stow in lorries
and railway-wagons. Pressers
in woolsheds can pack as much
in a capless pack as in one with
a cap, and they can press more
bales in a day.
However, brokers consider it
is not so easy to repack wool
in a bale on the show-floor
after sales, and they maintain
that the use of the capless
method will result in increased
costs to the growers.
Continuous Concrete
Drains
Since writing (B. 18/9/’57),
about the development in the
U.S.A. of plastic-lined drains
which are laid continuously
behind a mole-plough, I have
come across a report from
England of research into laying
underground a continuous,
permeable, concrete drain. The
work was carried out by the
School of Agriculture, Cam-
bridge, and sponsored by the
Agricultural Research Council.
The idea is to pump concrete
down a hollow mdle-blade past
formers which are attached to
the nose of the mole-plug. The
concrete mix is held in large
hoppers mounted with the mole-
plough on a trailer. The
hoppers are filled from a
stationary mixer, and the con-
crete is shovelled from them
into a feed-hopper at the top
of the blade. It is then tamped
down the feed-duct in the blade
and into the formers by two
pneumatically operated agita-
tors.
Depth-control is hydraulic,
and the mole-plug and formers
are fully floating, to allow for
surface irregularities.
A separate power-unit is
mounted—a 13 h.p. air-cooled
horizontally - opposed two -
cylinder engine—and this drives
an air - compressor and
hydraulic pump. It also
operates stirrers at the top of
the feed-duct.
Provision is made for back-
filling with gravel, and the soil
disturbance is said to be much
less than with the traditional
trench-cutter type of tile-laying
machines. Costs are expected
to be 25 per cent, lower, esti-
mates being 20s. to 255. sterling
per chain with permeable gravel
backfill.
The experimental machine
has been worked in various soil
conditions, pulled by a crawler
tractor of 85-drawbar horse-
power, and a second model is
being designed for mounting
directly on the tractor.
With a year’s research behind
them into pumping concrete
into the ground, and into the
strength and permeability of
various mixes, the English
scientists seem confident that
a worth - while commercial
machine will be developed.
J. E. Slee.
Summer Weaners
“Nardoo”: For many years
the harassed sheepbreeder who
watched his promising weaners
go scoury and fall away around
Christmas thought the answer
was phenothiazine or supple-
mentary grain.
Recent research at Kybybolite
(S.A.) points todhe conclusion
that drenching plus grain is
the best cure, at least for the
tail of the flock. Summer crops
such as rape can help, and
lucerne is probably as good as
anything, but summer growers
have the big disadvantage that
most other things do well when
they do well, and they are a
risky proposition when the
going is harder.
Reported by Allden and
Anderson, the Kybybolite work
shows that Jib. of grain or peas
a head daily (fed in two lots
a week) maintains body-weight;
lib. a day gives a gain of Jib. to
Jib. a week; and ljlb. a day
(self-fed) produces gains of
Jib. up to ljlb. a week.
All sheep receiving grain
should be brought on to it
gradually Jib. a head daily,
increased by Jib. a day every
fourth feeding-day, until the
full ration is reached.
Rations of 11b. a head, or
more, daily, should be supple-
mented by 2 per cent, of finely-
ground limestone. Lapibs that
will receive liberal grain-
rations should be inoculated
against pulpy-kidney when
weaned.
Wheatland Sheep
“Minosa”: As a sort of
background to current condi-
tions in N.S.W. wheatlands,
where dry weather has dramati-
cally changed the picture,, a
survey by the Bureau of Agri-
cultural Economics, showing
the swing away from wheat to
sheep is interesting. Between
1949-50 and 1955-56 the number
of ewes mated in these areas
increased by more than three
million (16 per cent.) and the
number of two-tooth and older
wethers increased by 3,173,000
(24 per cent.).
Surveys in other wheatgrow-
ing districts—notably the Vic-
torian Wimmera would show
similar substantial increases in
the sheep population.
Chief causes of the decline in
the N.S.W. wheat-acreages
during the period considered
are: high prices for meat and
wool; increased costs of farm-
ing ; depleted fertility of old
wheatlands and associated
erosion, with consequent need
for longer rotations ; reluctance
of farmers to plough-in pastures
which had become well-estab-
lished during the run of good
seasons; increase of weeds
such as wild-oats and skeleton-
weed ; and the stimulus given
to livestock-farming by myxo-
matosis.
Cover-crops
“Oaklands”: Dry conditions
in most of the lighter country
this year have left only a thin
cover on hills and rises, which
could blow badly if not pro-
tected before summer is over.
Fallows are particularly vul-
nerable.
Some protection could have
been given by sowing a light
cover-crop of oats —say, 201 b.
of seed and 541 b. of super, to
the acre —to give a cover and
grip to the soil against erosion.
The crop can be grazed
lightly to keep down the flag
and leave the bare stalk to
break the force of the wind.
After a good rain in Feh-
ruary, the cover crop can be
worked into' the ground, and
the soil cultivated normally to
control weeds and prepare the
seed-bed.
Costs of sowing the cover-
crop are usually compensated
by the grazing from it. The
subsequent cereal-crop is likely
to be up to five bushels to the
acre lighter— not a really high
price to pay for keeping good
soil at home.
An alternate way of holding
the soil is to sow it permanently
to lucerne. This is effective,
and provides good feed, but
has the disadvantage of keep-
ing areas out of cultivation
altogether. It is also wise to
fence lucerne to prevent over-
grazing into the crowns.
Salt for Sheep
“Wick”: A new angle to the
almost eternal argument as to
whether sheep eat salt because
they like it, or because it is good
for them, is provided by recent
work by well-known researchers
McClymont, Franklin, Wynne
and Briggs, which shows that
young Merino wethers put on
extra weight to show their
appreciation of salt or, at
least, the sodium in salt.
The “Australian Journal of
Agricultural Research” reports
that the experimental groups of
wethers were put on five
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(17/10/'57)
Queensland likely to get only light to moderate,
patchy rains during November, although there may be
reasonably good rains on parts of the south coast and
Darling Downs. General relief rains are indicated in
December.
Apart from some moderate rains, mainly below normal,
on the coast, tablelands, and north-west slopes and plains,
rainfall poor also in most of N.S.W. during November.
General relief rains are indicated in December. The
Saturnian cycle indicates no Worth-while rains from now
until the winter of 1958.
Moderate to good rains should occur in Victoria during
November, although part of the Mallee and northern division
may have only light rain. December should be a month
of patchy rainfall.
The central agricultural areas of South Australia may
receive reasonably good rains in November, but rainfall
light and patchy elsewhere.
The East Kimberleys may receive average rains during
November, with moderate to good rain in the south-west
corner of Western Australia. Rainfall poor elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


Mtkes
e
Priced
%
choice of e
pODEi s
NEW ENGINE POWER
The range of Ferguson engines combine*
more power with lower fuel consump-
tion . . . high torque at low engine
speeds ... extra capacity for the tougher
jobs.
NEW STEERING
A specially designed re-circulating ball-
type mechanism ensures accurate steering
and damps out shock loads when travelling
over rough ground. The front axle design
eliminates re-alignment of front wheels
when adjusting track widths.
NEW BACK AXLE
Pinion, ring gaar and differential gear* ara
cut, case-hardened and heat treated from
alloy steel forging*. A new safety feature
prevents overload and damage to the
rear axle.
NEW SAFETY STARTER
The safety starter is absolutely foolproof
in the new Ferguson 35. Only when
the dual-range gear lever is placed in
the ‘S’ position and the ignition key
turned fully to the right will the tractor
engine start.
NEW DISTINCTIVE STYLING
With cleaner styling and a pleasing
two-tone colour scheme of Ferguson grey
and rich metallic bronze, the 35 is well to
the fore in appearance. Da Luxe models
are fitted with a foam rubber seat.
NEW INSTRUMENT PANEL
The compact instrument panel, beside*
being pleasing to the eye, is also
completely functional. Instruments
include oil pressure gauge, temperature
gauge and, on De Luxe models, a
tractometer, which includes tachometer,
speedo and hour meter.
Ask for a demonstration from your Local Dealer or write to
Distributors for Queensland, Northern Rivers of N.S.W. & Northern Territory ... ___
BRITISH TRACTOR l IMPLEMENTS PTY. LTD.
156-158 SYDNEY STREET, NEW FARM, BRISBANE. Phone LW lON
different high-grain fattening-
mixtures of oats and wheaten-
hay or lucerne-chaff. Although
the wethers which received salt
ate only slightly more food
than the others, their body-
weight was 37 per cent, higher,
As similar responses were
obtained when baking-soda
(sodium-bicarbonate) was used
instead of salt (sodium -
chloride), it is concluded that
it is the sodium, rather than
the salt itself, which gives the
benefit.
Farm Hint’S
“Sundowner”: Rotting of
green-manure crops will be
hastened by applying sulphate-
of-ammonia at 2oz. per sq.
yd. before crops are dug-in.
Two to . *j? ree ' vee k s should be
allowed for the rotting-down
P™« ss before sowln « the next
“Mossie”: Recent experi-
ments here in New Zealand on
the control of grass-grub have
established the superiority of a
wet-mix of D.D.T. and super-
phosphate over the dry-mix.
The latter had the disadvantage
of uneven distribution. With
the wet-mix, the D.D.T. is well
distributed in the super and
the mixture is very satisfactory
for application by aircraft and
by spinner-topdressers. It
seems practically certain that
all fertiliser companies here
will adopt the wet-mix method
of manufacture.
“Big Billy”: N.Z. technique
of spraying pastures to reduce
likelihood of bloat has been
adopted here in Victoiia, parti-
cularly in the newer irriga-
tion-areas. The idea is to spray
eac j 1 ( j a y’ s g raz i n g of pasture
wj h ~o il or ta || ow al the
£ f 2 . 30 z cow . xhe
.. . F . ...
oil or tallow is emulsified with
an a S ent , as Ijssapol, an(a
applied with low-volume boom-
spray equipment. Although the
costs of labor and materials
are high, it is considered to be
an economic practice in an
emergency.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE'
Over 1000 people braved biting wind
and rain at the wharf to welcome home
the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, and
Lady Brooks when they returned in the
Iberia from their holiday in England.
The band of Southern Command played,
and a 17-gun salute was fired in the
Domain. With the vice-regal couple is
Lady Brooks’s step-niece Wendy Raphael,
who will spend a holiday at Government
House.
Next day their Excellencies made a
triumphal tour over 12 miles of city and
inner suburbs and were greeted first at
the Town Hall by the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. F. W.
Thomas), and later by 4000 school-
children at the Collingwood Cricket
Ground.
ft ft ft
It was “house-full” at the Comedy
Theatre when Dame Sybil Thorndike,
playing the star role, in “The Chalk
Garden,” celebrated her 75th birthday.
Over 200 members of the Overseas
League, led by their president, Vice-
Admiral Sir Roy Dowling, and Lady
Dowling, were in the audience. At the
conclusion of the performance Thomas
Hudson, secretary of the league and a
great friend of both Dame Sybil and Sir
Lewis Casson, conducted the orchestra
and the audience in singing “Happy
Birthday to You.” Later the cast met
in Dame Sybil’s dressing-room to drink
her health in champagne and to present
her with a picnic-basket.
☆ ft ft
Noted at the opening of “The Bartered
Bride” (which was a personal triumph
for title-role soprano Elsie Morison):
Mr. and Mrs. Garnet Carroll, who were
with Joan Hammond ; the Premier (Mr.
Henry Bolte) and Mrs. Bolte (she wearing
a slim gown of palest gold delustred
satin); Elizabethan Trust president Sir
John Latham and Lady Latham (her
choice a short theatre-frock of cafe-
au-lait Chantilly-lace); Sir Frank and
Lady Tait; Sir Frank and Lady Selleck ;
Legislative Assembly Speaker W. J. F.
McDonald, his wife and daughter Sandra ;
Lady Storey and her son Keith; and
Sir Robert and Lady Knox.
* ft ft
The engagement has been announced
of Pamela Margaret, elder daughter of
Mrs. Richard Dixon, of Armadale, and
the late Mr. Dixon, to Dr. Thomas
Desmond Hoban, only son of Mrs. C. A.
Hoban, of East St. Kilda, and the late
Mr. Thomas Hoban. Pam, who has
travelled extensively, is in charge of the
travel-bureau at the Hotel Australia.
Pam’s sister Nanette, who has been in
Europe on a holiday, returned home
just in time to share in the celebrations.
The leading-role of Jane in “Salad
Days” has been given to 22-year-old
petite, blonde Judy Banks. Judy, who has
operated an accounting-machine since
she returned from London 18 months ago,
sings and dances. Ballroom-dancing and
golfing are her pastimes. This is Judy’s
first professional role —her previous stage-
work was with the Little Theatre.
There were lovely flower-decorations
(arranged by Mrs. Gerard Alderton) in
the reception-rooms of the Toorak home
of Mrs. Lytton Stephens for the
champagne-cocktail party arranged by
the Toorak auxiliary of the Royal
Women’s Hospital—huge bowls of mixed
pink and white roses, bowls of light and
dark lilac, and of mauve lilac, arum-lilies
and iris. Hospital president Miss Kath-
leen Syme was received by president of
the auxiliary Mrs. Hal Clapp, assisted
by her mother, Mrs. Lytton Stephens
(who is a former president of the
hospital). Among those who worked for
the success of the evening were Mrs.
John Reilly, Mrs. C. Wieckhardt, Mrs.
Val Johnson, Mrs. Bruce Miller and her
daughter Ann, and Mrs. Ted Forrest.
ft ft ft
To honor Austria’s Flag Day and the
Charge d’Affaires (Dr. Johannes Manz),
Austrian Consul F. L. Berger and Mrs.
Berger entertained 150 guests at their
Toorak home. The hostess wore a black
velvet cocktail-frock with deep neckline
outlined in white guipure-lace and sequins.
Among the guests were Minister for
Labor Harold Holt and Mrs. Holt; the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr. and
Mrs. Thomas); Sir Frank and Lady
Selleck ; conductor Kurt Woess and Mrs.
Woess; Mr. and Mrs. Michael Niall;
Sir John and Lady Teasdale ; Mr. and
Mrs. David N. Martin ; British Trade
Commissioner Gordon Husted and Mrs.
Husted; N.Z. Trade Commissioner R.
Inglis and Mrs. Inglis; Netherlands
Consul M. Schoo and Mrs. Schoo, and
French Consul M. Le Bas de Plumetot
and his wife.
ft ft *
Some fashion-notes from the Moonee
Valley Cup meeting: Lady Brooks’s navy-
and-white finely-checked wool dress
bound in navy grosgrain; Lady
Burston’s beige jacket-suit with its wide
back-panel extending from the neckline ;
Mrs. Harold Holt's jacket-suit of
iridescent linen in pinky-beige tonings, her
basin-shaped hat of plaited beige and
cocoa-toned silk-straw ; Mrs. Geoffrey
Grimwade’s unusual draped beret of
beige organza, with roses at one side ;
Mrs. Ray Joseph’s slim black fine-wool
frock and jacket, with a small sou’-wester
of red-and-white checked-satin ; and the
bloused jacket-suit of taupe wool worn
by Mrs. Morris Sallmann with a taupe-
and-white-spotted silk blouse.
ft ft ft
A drive-in Christmais-card service,
organised to raise funds for deaf
children, is now operating at the Victorian
School for Deaf Children on the corner,
of St. Kilda Road and High Street. A
beautiful range of cards is on sale from
Is. 6d. each, and for a small extra charge
personal greetings can be printed if
required. The organisers are giving
special attention to mail-orders from
both town and country. Further infor-
mation may be obtained by ringing
LA 1910.
v # v
Margaret Hodgkinson and Geoffrey K.
Treleaven, who marry on November 9 at
Our Lady of Victories Church, Camber-
well, have been guests-of-honor at
several pre-wedding parties. A kitchen-
tea was given Margaret by her brides-
maids, Dr. Helene Sherlock and air-
hostess Carmel Aimers, at the Hotel
Windsor. Others who will hostess parties
are Mrs. P. J. O’Rourke, Mrs. Jan
Downing,and Mrs. A. Robinson.
ft ft ☆
The Caprice Room at Mario’s was the
setting for a dinner-dance organised to
raise funds for the combined orphanages
of Geelong. Mrs. Christopher Mattley,
of Geelong (she is president of the
Bambra committee), allied a bouffant
skirt of mist-blue tulle with a sequin-
trimmed strapless satin bodice. Mrs.
Margaret Miller, the treasurer, wore a
black taffeta gown. Committee-members
Mrs. Don Wilson, Mrs. Laurice Wake-
field and Mrs. R. C. Eustice were also
present at this happy affair. Among the
guests were Dr. and Mrs. lan Wilson,
Mr. and Mrs. Arnold Wittner, Mr. and
Mrs. Geoff. Morris, Mrs. Ken Dumbrell,
Mr. and Mrs. Ken Turnbull, Mr. and
Mrs. Don O'Donnell and Mr. and Mrs.
F. Vigano.
* ft ft
A parade of fashions sponsored by
Melbourne fabric wholesalers F. R. and


“The Letters of
RACHEL HENNING”
in book form, with 40
exquisite pen-drawings by-
Norman Lindsay
Price, 7s. 6J. post free,
from '‘The Bulletin” Book
Department,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
dinner the cake was taken out
under my orders, and we had
a dress-rehearsal of its orna-
mentation. Then Tregenna B.
and I had a game of billiards. In
the evening two Miss Hen-
nings and their sister, Mrs.
Boyce, arrived. Lester and I
have quarters at Mr. Stevens,
the cabinet-maker. Mrs. Wad-
dington is lodging at Bragg’s
the stationer’s in the market-
place.
July 30 (Sunday ). —We
mustered a large party at
breakfast, and directly after
Mr. Edwin Arnold [later Sir
Edwin Arnold, author of The
Light of Asia], a man who
has lately distinguished himself
as a poet, a great friend of
Tregenna Biddulph’s at
Oxford, came in. He arrived
last night, but put up at the
Castle. We went to church a
party of 15. There was no
sermon, Mr. Parr being ill and
Mr. Bleasby unprepared.
After dinner Lester and I
went to the railway-station
and then had a very bright
walk along the river as far as
Bath Pool (an old coaching
locality in my acquaintance).
Got beautiful collections of
wildflowers, Lester for Rose,
I for Annie Waddington.
Mrs. W. and Annie dined and
spent the rest of the day with
us. Church, the whole of the
party in the evening. A
sermon from a Mr. Stone,
apparently translated from the
French and badly done. We
were 17 at supper, and a most
lively party it was.
July 31. —Before breakfast
Lester and I went to the
station, to see the station-
master and try to make
arrangements for a coupe!
This Lester had not thought of
until I put him up to it. He
promised to do the best he
could.
Directly after breakfast
walked again to the station
with Mr. Arnold, who seems
a very nice fellow (he lives
near Gravesend).
We went to see the Hen-
nings and Mrs. Boyce off. The
two former sail for Australia
with Tregenna Biddulph on
Friday. He was to have gone
into the Church, but his health
has lately broken down so that
he is unable to finish his uni-
versity career. He has been
for some time engaged to
Miss Bella Badcock, and now
she wishes to be married to
him and to accompany him
abroad, but her father will not
hear of it and directly opposes
the wishes of the young people
and all the friends of both
families.
On our return from the
station Arnold read us some
poetry, “The Romaunt of
Margaret,” by Elizabeth
Browning. He reads very well,
and we had some pleasant chat.
I had about half-an-hour’s
quiet talk on the lawn with
Rose. Then I again went to
the station with Rachel
Biddulph to meet one of the
bridesmaids, Miss Fraser, who
was paired-off with me. After
waiting for 20 minutes for
the train it came in without
her, and we retraced our steps
and met Biddulph Pinchard,
who was coming to tell us that
Miss F. had arrived by the
train before and had indeed
met us in the bus as we were
going.
Found them at dinner.
Before we had done, baskets
of flowers began to arrive, and
continued to do so all after-
noon. After dinner Tregenna
8., Arnold, Biddulph P. and I
went out for a thrive to
Cotherstone. It came on thick
with drizzling rain, so we left
Tregenna, whose chest is very
delicate, to keep himself dry
at Mrs. Esdaile’s lodge while
we went up to the Tower. I
then took the reins. Met
Theophilus and a Mr. Ritchie
riding. Mr. R. was hailed with
great glee as an adjunct for
the party for tomorrow, tho’
he had nothing but what he
stood up in, and that was
cricketing gear.
We stopped and bee red at
the Gore Arms at Bishop’s
Lydeard, and then home
to tea, which we found
in the little breakfast-
parlor, as the dining-room
was entirely occupied by
flowers, which gave us work
for the whole evening, i.e., till
10.30. We had additions to
the party, Rev. Andrew Reeve
from Kimeridge, a relation of
Governor Houldsworth of
Dartmouth, a capital fellow,
singing splendidly; Mr.
Russell Gurney, a barrister;
Mr. Horace Waddington ; and
Mr. Henry Malden, a brother
photographer. He arrived late,
without his luggage. When the
flowers finished and most of
the party had left, a select few
set to work to lay the table
for breakfast. I did my devoir
by the cake. About 1 a.m.
Lester and I went off to bed
pretty well tired out.
(To be concluded next week.)
T. H. Fogarty to designs by Hall Ludlow
gave glimpses of what the Australian
woman can choose from in the all-wool
line next winter.
One striking ink-colored evening-frock
featured a fully box-pleated skirt, jewel-
embroidered. There was also a slim-
fitting black cocktail-ensemble, the jacket
of which had a deep neckline collared
with luxurious white-fox fur.
A smart suit for town wear was
fashioned of black and white chanel, high-
lighted with a satin bow. A pencil-slim
cocktail-frock of three-inch herringbone
tweed was tied with a large bow at the
back waist.
Very attractive both as to color and
fabric was a utility frock in kingfisher-
blue ; its chief features were the off-
shoulder treatment and the blouse bodice.
SYDNEY
About 100 people attended the highly-
successful film-preview and supper-party
held at the Darling Point home of Mr.
and Mrs. M. S. Scott on Saturday night;
the bubbling Judy Holliday comedy “Full
of Life” was shown by courtesy of Mr.
Roy Brauer, Columbia Pictures’ manag-
ing-director, proceeds of the evening
being for the N.S.W. Royal Society for
Deaf and Blind Children.
Co-hostesses were Georgina Scott (who
wore a frock of pale-blue satin-brocade
cut with a deep-V back) and Mrs. Bill
White. Mrs. White, who deputised for
the president of the society’s social-
committee (Mrs. Sam Lands), chose
a black faille frock, the skirt
printed with red poppies and white
daisies, the centres of which were picked
out in beads and rhinestones to give a
most attractive effect. Mrs. Scott’s laces
were in beige toning.
Outstanding frocks noted among the
guests were the off-white sheath guipure-
lace worn by Mrs. Roy Brauer, tastefully
offset by satin stole, shoes and handbag
all in taupe shade ; and Mrs. Adele All-
dritt’s white brocade frock, which carried
a back-drape.
☆ ☆ ☆
A late-afternoon reception for 200
guests, organised by its Women’s
Auxiliary, was programmed for yester-
day afternoon (Oct. 29) at the club-rooms
of the Overseas League to farewell the
league’s secretary, Miss Kathleen Gaden,
M.8.E., who leaves in the Stratheden on
November 12 for a 12-months holiday
overseas. Miss Gaden, who has held this
position for 22 years, will be accom-
panied by her niece, Roslyn Gaden, of
Double Bay.
On Tuesday, November 5, at 2.30 p.m.,
a special Melbourne Cup tea-party will be
held in the Overseas League rooms, and
on the following day there will be a
late-afternoon reception, when the guest-
of-honor will be Lieut. - General
Mohammed Yousuf, High Commissioner
for Pakistan.
Another Cup Day party to keep in
mind is that organised jointly by the
Forget-Me-Not Committee (headed by
Mrs. Sydney Lennon) and the Lebanon
League (Mrs. A. Alam), to be held in the
Canberra Lounge of the Hotel Rex at
Potts Point, commencing at 1.30 p.m. As
well as other attractions there will be
a musical programme, and a number of
beautiful articles have been secured for
a Tombala. It is in aid of the N.S.W.
Society for Crippled Children. Tickets
are 12s. 6d. each. Table reservations from
Mrs. Skilier (MX 4392).
☆ ☆ ☆
Next Saturday (November 2) the
Annual Spring Fair in aid of the Far
West Children’s Health Scheme will be
held at the Far West Home in Wentworth
Street, Manly, commencing at 2.30 p.m.
In addition to fruit, cake, sweets, novelty
and Christmas-present stalls, there will be
one of basketware, pottery, woven scarves
and mats, leatherwork, etc. —all the work
of the little patients. There will also
be chocolate-wheels and afternoon-tea.


For the rest of the voyage they
made reasonably good time,
though arriving, of course,
several weeks overdue.
Trist’s orders had been to
hand over the tugs and the
dock to the Naval authorities
at Gibraltar and to return with
his crew of dockyard-worker
seamen to England.
The dock was to be taken
over by a Merchant Navy crew,
and Trist and his men wished
them joy of it as they went
thankfully ashore.
Their heartfelt relief did not
last long. The men of the
Merchant Navy went aboard
the dock, took one look at the
accommodation and walked
ashore again, refusing to have
a bar of it.
The design of a floating-dock
does not allow for anything so
luxurious in the way of accom-
modation as that provided on a
30 - year - old coal - burning
tramp: there is nowhere to put
it.
Such as it was, it had to be
between the two steel sides of
one wall of the dock, while the
space in the other wall housed
the machinery.
Access from one wall to the
other was provided by a cat-
walk above the open water
between them.
The Admiral in charge at
Gibraltar did not want the dock
there, either. He wanted to get
rid of it. He was sorry, -he told
Trist, but he knew Trist would
do it: “I’ve never known a
shipwright to let me down!”
So they went back to the
dock, the tugs took up the tow,
and they sailed up the Mediter-
ranean.
■pROM that time on they
* were nobody’s baby.
Their destination was Mom-
basa, on the east coast of
Africa, for orders, but to get
there they had to call at ports
en route for stores, fuel and
water, which were not always
easily obtained even by legiti-
mate ships on legitimate
business.
They found at their first port
of call, Malta, that the dock
was not regarded as legitimate
business. No one knew any-
thing about it. no information
had been received, and if it
and its tugs had not been lying
in the harbor, taking up a lot
of valuable space, the Royal
Navy would not have believed
in its existence.
As it was, and grudgingly,
and only to get rid of the thing,
they were supplied with suffi-
cient of their requirements to
get them to Port Said.
It took Trist a lot of argu-
ment to get his monstrous craft
through the Suez Canal. The
authorities did not want a thing
like the side of a house up-
setting the traffic organisation.
Still, he got it through to
Port Said —where his welcome
was cold to a degree.
By sheer “blackmail”—by
threatening to stay there for
ever if he did not get what he
wanted —he obtained more fuel
and stores and made for Aden.
The barren rocks of Aden
gave him a very warm welcome
—as far as the temperature
was concerned. Conditions on
the dock and the tugs became
almost unbearable.
Using his now-familiar tech-
nique, Trist got sufficient sup-
plies out of the reluctant
authorities and made his way
to Mombasa. There he had
hoped to find a relief crew, and
relief from his cares.
Nothing of the sort.
The Navy had heard about a
floating-dock, a long time ago,
where had he been?. . . In-
quiries would be made as to
what was to be done.
The inquiries took some
time. 4 Nobody, apparently,
wished to be burdened with the
responsibility of a spare dock
and its tugs. They were still
nobody’s baby.
Eventually instructions were
received that they were to pro-
ceed to Cochin, on the west
coast of India. From there it
was expected that they would
go to Trincomalee to join the
East Indies station of the
Pacific Fleet.
This, at any rate, appeared
to be something definite and to
bring the end of the voyage
within calculation.
They made the long voyage
to Cochin and from there to
Trincomalee in Ceylon—one
of the world’s most depressing
Naval stations ; the place where
leave-personnel preferred to
stay and swelter on board their
ships rather than go ashore.
Trinco., when they arrived
there, did not want them,
either ; and it was some time
before somebody came to the
conclusion that it would be a
good idea to send them to
Fremantle and let the R.A.N. or
the Yanks be saddled with the
responsibility.
TIY this time Trist and his
crew of ancient mariners
had become fatalistic ... Noth-
ing much more could happen
to them.
The Indian Ocean soon dis-
proved this idea.
Four days out from Trinco.,
en route to Fremantle, they
ran into a severe and prolonged
storm which not only brought
the rate of progress down to
nil but smashed and buckled-
up the plates at the towing end
of the dock —and swept away
the catwalk which connected
one side to the other!
But, battered and limping,
Trist’s unlovely charge eventu-
ally did tie-up at Fremantle —
10 months out from Iceland!
If Trist thought he had now
at last finished with the R.N.
he found his mistake before he
even got ashore.
Navy stores and equipment
had to be checked, and the
check disclosed that he was
short of a gallon of rum. What
had he done with it?
Trist neither knew nor cared,
but that was not good enough
for the R.N., and the inquiry
went on until Trist might have
been up on a court-martial for
barratry or even worse if some-
one had not taken pity on him
and brought in a paymaster
from a New Zealand cruiser
who took over and wangled the
matter to some sort of a con-
clusion.
Repairs to the dock took
weeks, and Commissioned
Shipwright Trist and his crew
of dockyard sailors were free
to enjoy their first break since
they had been flown to Iceland.
Trist himself was freed from
all responsibility when a lieut.-
commander, R.N., was flown
over from the east to supervise
the repairs and to take over the
command of the tow when the
repairs were completed.
All this seemed too good
to be true —and so it was!
Something happened in the
east; the lieut.-commander was
recalled as the repairs were
nearly completed, and a com-
mander and crew had to be
found to take the dock further
on its apparently never-ending
voyage.
Who better than Commis-
sioned Shipwright Trist and his
men?
So, one morning, the harbor
boom was lowered, the port
tugs took the dock out to where
her own tugs picked up the tow,
and in a couple of hours they
were all only another war-time
memory in Fremantle.
Trist took his tow to Sydney,
and from there to Manus
Island.
By that lime the war was so
nearly over that it is doubtful
if the dock was any more use
or any more welcome at Manus
than it had been in Gibraltar,
Malta, and the rest.
The only port where it was
really needed was Fremantle.
Dad stared at him.
“You’ve been drinking,” he
accused sternly.
“Wha’s that got to do wi’ you
if I ’ave? Wha’s wrong with a
blackfeller havin’ a drink same
as a white bloke ? I’m as good
as you er anyone else! I’m as
good as the Boss! An’ he ain’t
goin’ to espoit me no more.”
“Listen, Tommy!” There
was that note in Dad’s voice
that always had made me feel
wretchedly guilty when I was
guilty of some juvenile
misdemeanor. “Nobody has
exploited you. If the Boss
hadn't arranged for you to
come here, you’d be living in
a dirty bag-gunyah in the
blacks’ camp on the river bank.
Your wages are being paid into
the Aborigines’ Protection
Board. Who’s been poking that
exploitation tomfoolery down
your neck —O’Readon?”
Tommy looked vacant, sway-
ing on his feet, eyes blinking
foolishly.
“I know who me friends are.
Paddy O’Readon doan espoit
me. He doan ... he doan . . .”
His voice trailed-off as though
he had completely forgotten
what he was talking about. For
a moment he stood with a
puzzled expression on his face,
then :
“I’m a dead ring for Jerry
Jerome. I can fight anyone in
the world. Jest a nat —
nat-ur-al fighter. I can beat
Chick —knock the stuffin’ outa
him. Where is he? Where’s
that Chick?” He looked
around the kitchen stupidly. “I
can fight”
Sis pushed her chair back,
but Dad’s hand fell on her arm.
He got to his feet, his lips
working beneath the greying
moustache. Mum restrained
him with a little shake of the
head, her soft eyes pleading.
“He’s drunk, Dad,” she
whispered reprovingly. “I can
manage him best.”
She shuffled to the unsteady


figure and placed her plump
hand on his forearm.
“Friends don’t talk about
fighting one another, Tommy,”
she said very quietly. “We are
all your friends, Tommy ; you
know” that, don’t you ? Of
course you do.” She was gently
ushering him to the door.
“You’re not looking very well,
Tommy. You’re tired. Why
don’t you go and have a lie-
down and you’ll feel so much
better?”
He had permitted himself to
be led out to the veranda.
Suddenly he flung himself
down the steps, almost fell to
his knees, but caught his bal-
ance and ran across the pad-
dock —a peculiar, reeling run
with head bent forward and
arms flinging out ridiculously.
“Let him go.” Dad’s voice
was hard. “If he falls over a
stump and breaks a leg it might
sober him up —and teach him
a bit of sense.” He turned and
strode inside. Mum stood star-
ing after the shambling figure
as it struggled through the
distant fence. There was deep
concern on her kindly face. Sis
came and stood beside her.
HTEA was over when Chick
. came in. Immediately
young Jimmy burst out:
“Tommy came in just now
and he’s drunk and he reckons
he can fight anyone in the
world and he reckons he could
knock the stuffin’ out of you!”
“Be quiet, Jimmy!” Mum’s
tone was unwontedly sharp.
Chick’s sturdy figure had
stiffened abruptly.
“What’s this? Tommy
drunk!”
Dad spoke up: “I blame
O’Readon. You know what he
is. I had an idea that Tommy
was going over to his place on
Saturday afternoons.”
“And he reckons he can
fight you”
“Jimmy! ” Mum grabbed
him by the thin shoulders with
a rough, shaking motion.
Jimmy looked at her
unbelievingly.
“Where’s Tommy now?”
Chick’s face was unreadable.
“He went across the cow-
paddock,” I said; then
instantly wondered whether I
had said the wrong thing.
Chick snatched up his hat
as he strode to the door.
“He was drunk, Chick! ” Sis’s
Voice was almost a scream. “He
didn’t know what he was
saying! ”
But Chick was already down
the steps and heading for the
cow-paddock.
Chick walked quietly
into the kitchen the
dining-room clock was striking
nine. He looked dishevelled,
and I noticed that two flaps of
skin as big as sixpences were
loose on the knuckles of his
right hand.
“I want to take the sulky to
bring Tommy home,” he said
to Dad.
“What have you done to
him?” Sis’s brown eyes were
blazing.
“Who? Tommy?” Chick
looked surprised. “Never
touched him. But” —he looked
down at his skinned knuckles —
“I betcha O’Readon don’t give
him grog any more.”
On Mum’s instructions
nobody ever mentioned the
episode to Tommy. How much
he remembered we never knew,
but on the Sunday night he
took the shield down again.
When, a fortnight later, he
returned it to the chimney-
breast, the pattern had been
extended and made much more
elaborate.
“You Want the fifth floor, madam."
The months passed. Tommy
was his old self. If anything,
he seemed happier than he had
ever been. He never visited
O’Readon —in fact, never
seemed to want to go any-
where. He played the phono-
graph occasionally, but seemed
to be completely happy just
sitting in the kitchen at night.
Then suddenly he changed ;
he became quiet, almost
morose. It was strange. I had
told Cec. all about Tommy, so
had Sis. Told him what a
happy, good-natured bloke
Tommy was; how he was
funny when he wasn’t trying to
be ; and how you could laugh
at him but he would never get
offended.
was the schoolteacher;
I had left school the previ-
ous year, but I met him when
he started a lifesaving and
swimming club at “The Big
Hole” along the river.
Sis met him at a Parents and
Citizens’ dance. I didn’t know
much about how those sort of
things happened ; I only knew
that the Sunday he came for
tea Sis was all fluttery, and
Mum looked sort of pleased
but anxious.
And Tommy had gone all
queer—made a liar of me by
the way he went on. Never
smiled all night; never even
grinned when young Jimmy
asked him would he like to
play “My Silver Bell.” Never
opened his mouth. Just sat
there looking glum.
The change in him seemed
to date from that night. He
appeared to have taken an
immediate dislike to Cec. On
the nights Cec. came he began
to go to his hut early. The
shield vanished from the
chimney-breast.
Just after Sis’s twenty-first
birthday Tommy gave me the
shield.
“You keep it,” he said
gruffly. “It’s finished and I
want you to have it ” He
emphasised the “you” with a
bitterness that baffled me.
“I’ll hang it up again where
you’ll be able to see it.”
“No; I won’t be there much
longer.”
I couldn’t understand it. He
seemed to be almost crying. -
“Why, what’s up?” 1 asked.
But he wouldn’t tell me —just
stood staring up at the
veranda, where the Short girls
were looking at the ring on
Sis’s finger and giggling
excitedly.
The next day I heard Dad
and the Boss talking about
Tommy. It was a bit too in-
volved for me. I caught some-
thing about the local police-
sergeant being the representa-
tive of the Aborigines’ Protec-
tion Board; and: “He’s
allowed to draw money from
his credit so long as he spends
it sensibly. The sergeant says
he can buy the pony and sulky
providing he really intends to
go picking-up in the shearing-
sheds.”
Dad’s reply sounded so final
that I felt shocked:
“The only thing to do is let
him go. Pity ; he used to be
a good boy. Biggest blunder
he ever made, of course, but
there it is—he wants to go, and
he hasn’t earned a shilling this
last fortnight.”
Three Weeks later Tommy
drove off in his shiny sulky
with a smart bay pony in the
shafts. I didn’t watch him
right out of sight; I sneaked
off to the w.c. A boy of
fifteen still has to fall back on
tears when he is terribly,
terribly upset.
T HAD just come out of the
store when an abo.,
obviously from the camp on
the riverbank, yanked back
on the rope-reins and slipped
off a barebacked bay pony.
“Is Tommy at the camp?” I
asked eagerly, “That's his
pony.”
The blackfellow grinned.
“It ra his pony. We taught
him to play poker.”
“But, Tommy—is he there?”
“Doan know where he is.
Last I heard of him he was on
the track—we gave him back
his swag.”
Poor Tommy. I wonder
where he went. I wonder
whether he is still alive. £
wonder if I would know him
if I met him now!
There are things I can see
now that a boy of fifteen could
not possibly understand. I
look at those last etchings
now, and . . . Poor Tommy!


intending to blow-up Stalin’s statue
with antiquated rifles; and an admirable
analysis by James McAuley of some
of the weaknesses of modem poetry
on the grounds that everybody nowa-
days is trying to be a little Blake. A
very sound viewpoint: only where do
we go from here?
“Southerly” (No. 2, 1957) has the
widest and, on the whole, the best-
balanced survey of Australian litera-
ture: with Desmond O’Grady on
Lawson; L. E. Fredman very readable
(in spite of his alarming footnotes) on
“Melbourne’s Bohemia of the 1890’s”;
Brian Eliott on wildflowers in Aus-
tralian poetry (an essay that needs a
final paragraph to bring it up to date);
and a liberal review-section.
“Hermes” (1957) discusses university
finances, Sydney University songbooks
and, unexpectedly, hypnotism, recalling
that one of the dangers of this art is
that, when he is tired, the hypnotist may
become hypnotised. There are poems
of some merit by Jeremy Nelson and
Robert Hughes.
Nathan Spielvogel
Nothing is so old in this country as
a New Australian. We were all New
Australians only a little while ago
in the colonial period, and, as
immigrants, sometimes in a flood and
sometimes in a trickle, we have been
coming in ever since . , . a reflection
prompted by Nathan Spielvogel’s
Selected Short Stories, a memorial
volume published by the Hawthorn
Press, Melbourne.
The first thing about these stories
that must strike a contemporary reader
is how very much they resemble
Judah Waten’s, not only because they
are Jewish and deal with Jews in a new
land but also because of a kind of
exotic music in them, made up partly
of foreign speech-rhythms, partly of the
poetry of nostalgia—the older people
longing for their homelands, the writer
for his childhood. Then comes the
recollection that Spielvogel, who some-
times wrote for “The Bulletin,” was
long before Waten as an exponent of
this kind of writing. He died in
September, 1956, after fifty years as a
teacher in Ballarat. “Mr. Spielvogel
and his father,” to quote from the
introduction,
have been associated with the life
of Ballarat for over a century.
Newman Frederick Spielvogel
arrived from Kolomea, Austria, in
1853 at the age of 23. He was a
Levi whose name was one of the
derisive surnames forced on Jews
when Poland was partitioned in
1791 and Galicia became part of
Austria.... .[He] was several times
President of the Congregation, had
seven children and was devoted to
Ballarat.
Nathan Spielvogel’s stories, here
reprinted from various Jewish news-
papers, are short and scrappy in the
style of so many Australian stories
of the ’nineties. He did not go nearly
as far as Waten has, either in the
development of character or the
architecture of a “plot.” They are
sentimental little vignettes, mostly
crumpling at the end into a religious
fervor which affords too easy a
solution.
But these religious stories, which
might sound didactic or propagandist
from a Christian writer, have an
attractively “different” flavor coming
from a Jew; and, slight though the
stories are, some set in Australia and
some in the long history of the Jews,
they have exactly the note of wild
poetry characteristic of the best of
Waten:—
“Oooshamnu!” his rich voice
wails, and the minds of those
twenty young exiles float back to
the homes on the other side of the
world. Lumps rise in throats! T s ears
form in eyes! With bowed heads
they listen to the prayer and beat
their breasts as they had been
taught to do in their own distant
synagogues.
It is not great art, but there is deep
feeling in it —enough to make one
curious to see more of his writing (one
of his stories from “The Bulletin,” or
his fictional reconstruction of Eureka,
or the essays in “Old Eko’s Notebook”)
in the hope that somewhere amongst
his considerable output the feeling was
expressed in more solid form.
A Critic In Reply
Miss Nancy Cato’s piece of
passionate muddle, published in “The
Bulletin” for October 2, doesn’t
establish any clear issue for discussion;
and the kind of anti-intellectual
snobbery she seems to be half-anxious
to half-express is not in itself worth
bringing to light. But she does mention
my name in a connection which seems
to me to call for some self-defence:
“Vincent Buckley, the Victorian,
biased towards Hope, McAuley,
classicism and intellectualism ”
Whether I am “biased towards”
Hope and McAuley must be decided
by readers of my book itself. But one
or two considerations may be men-
tioned. Certainly, I think Hope one
of our two or three best poets; and
I have given reasons for thinking so.
Very likely, as Douglas Stewart
suggests in his review, I have gone over
the odds in some of the terms I have
chosen to praise him; a certain excess
may be understandable in that essay,
since I was very conscious, when
writing it over three years ago, of
pioneering an understanding approach
to a poet who had previously had
nothing but silence or sheer incom-
prehension. As for McAuley: the last
paragraph of my essay apart, my
account of him is certainly no more
unreserved than my account of (say)
Slessor or Judith Wright. Still, if Miss
Cato thinks me biased towards them
she may go on thinking it.
But . . . “biased towards classicism
and intellectualism.... ”? Surely she
has been misreading, or else she has
been drawn into assigning that sort of
guilt by association which is so
common in all, and not only Aus-
tralian, literary circles. I should have
thought that my reservations about
classicism were plain enough, and that
it was obvious that I thought the term
“intellectualism” almost meaningless.
[There are, after all, many relevant
statements throughout the book, but
especially in the first two essays, and
in the essays on Hope, Fitz Gerald and
McAuley.]
What does Miss Cato make, for
example, of my statement, “I do not
myself share the classical fervor of
McAuley and Hope; nor do I
sympathise with the former’s apparently
wholehearted rejection of those strains
in poetry and life which he would no
doubt label ‘modernist’ ”? In fact, it
must be obvious that I have a strong
temperamental dislike of “classicism,”
especially of what sometimes passes
for it in Australia. And Miss Cato’s
suggestion that I am drawn toward
poetry bom “in some shadowy classical
Hades peopled by marble figures” just
denies the plain facts. For, to give
only one example, I state that I am
“allergic” to this sort of poetry [see
p. 186 and on]. An allergy doesn’t
sound much like a “bias towards.”
Or perhaps it does among the
soursobs.
It is possible that there is a “schism
developing” in Australian poetry, and
that there are people in Sydney and
Melbourne who dream of classical
cohorts emerging, led by James
McAuley and Harold Stewart. I am
certainly not one of them; a growth in
the influence of, for example, Harold
Stewart is the last thing I should want
to see happen; and the prospect of
such cohorts marching very far, and
still remaining “classical,” seems to me
amusingly remote.
If the tone of this note seems
egotistic, and its logic sketchy, it is
because a short letter of protest is
no place for a manifesto, and because
Miss Cato’s original concern with my
own views was so - patronisingly
uninformed. And, soursobs or not, I
have never made the slightest gesture
of an attack on a “healthy regionalism.”
Quite the contrary; if Miss Cato’s verse,


THE GOLDEN SOVEREIGN
Richard Church
This second volume of Richard Church’s recollections
is a companion volume to “OVER THE BRIDGE.”
At all booksellers - - - 22/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : .MELBOURNE • : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
LIFE’S ADVENTURE
by Sir Philip Gibbs
For many years one of Fleet Street’s most famous journalists, Philip Gibbs
has lived his life against a background of the most dramatic events of the
century. He has written eighty books, many on historical and war subjects
(European Journey, Pageant of the Years) and readers have loved his popular
novels such as The Street of Adventure. His autobiography, Life’s Adventure,
is a fascinating account of a life that has been exceptionally varied in its
experience. 21/- (post 1/-)
Available from all booksellers and
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-9 S Castlereagh Street, Sydney
A book to charm and delight all readers
SEPTEMBER MOON
John Moore
A love story of the English countryside told with warmth and
understanding. The author of Brensham Village writes about
the country with deep love and knowledge, and his latest work
is undoubtedly his best yet.
Ready
Soon
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
From all
Booksellers
or anyone else’s, exhibited such life,
I should welcome it, as I welcome the
best of Judith Wright’s, or Douglas
Stewart’s, or David Campbell’s.
(Though I notice that, in Miss Cato’s
conception of “regionalism,” the region
of southern Victoria seems to have no
rights.) Even in a university a varied
view and expectation of poetry are
possible.
And, come to that, it is snrely a
queer aberration of education which
can lead Miss Cato to consider a man
outside any “real” literary discussion
precisely because he is a member of a
university. She is not the only Aus-
tralian litterateur who is comforted by
this belief. Soon the question will have
to be asked, “Who are the Australian
literary academics?” The answer may
disconcert Miss Cato.
Vincent Buckley.
Reviewed Briefly
Best Foot Forward: Colin Hodgkin-
son (Odhams). The autobiography of
an airman who, like Douglas Bader,
returned to flying in World War II after
losing both legs in a crash. After
eleven months in action with Spitfires
he crash-landed in France and was
made p.-0.-w. Repatriated in 1944 as
“unfit for further duty,” he continued
to fly with the R.A.F., and from 1947
to 1952 flew jets. Today he manages
his own public-relations business and
“is happily married to a beautiful and
successful fashion-model.” A colorful,
exciting book, alive all the way
through.
* * * *
The Short Reign of Pippin IV: John
Steinbeck (Heinemann). Set in Paris
and dealing with a mythical king
elected to the throne of contemporary
France, this is a surprising novel for
the author of “Of Mice and Men” and
“The Grapes of Wrath” —a light, gay
comedy much more in the French
tradition than his own down-to-earth
America. It amounts to a satire on
the furious muddle of French politics,
and if, as with so many bright ideas, it
is better in conception than solution,
there are many amusing touches.
* * * *
Tiger! Tiger!: William Baze (Elek).
The author, whose book is translated
from the French by H. M. Burton,
spent twenty-five years in the jungles
of Indo-China, and previously wrote
a book about elephants. He has a lot
of tiger-hunting in this, all vivid
enough, but there is more novelty in
his stories of tigers kept as pets. There
was a little boy in North Viet Nam
who constantly played with a tiger,
even putting his head in its mouth,
and when the family had to hand the
animal over to the Hanoi Medical
School it pined and died; but there were
also the author’s own two pet tigers
which used to play happily with his
mastiff until one day they ate it.
* * * *
Proust’s Way: Georges Piroue, trans-
lated by Gerard Hopkins (Heinemann).
This boils-down to a series of 12 essays
on Proust, as Artist, Psychologist and
Novelist; there are a few profound
chapters on the devices by which
Proust twisted his own homosexuality
in various ways to provide love-affairs
for widely different characters, and the
effect of such substitutions in produc-
ing still further abnormalities; and an
admirable chapter on Proustian society,
from which it is concluded that Proust
is the most removed from his people
of all novelists:—-
He is like the young ladies of the
telephone-exchange .... Invisible,
incapable of intervening in the
conversation of a woman who is
lying to her lover, or of disguising
the weakness of a grandmother at
the point of death, it is, nevertheless,
through them that the miracle of
“communication” is effected,
* * * *
Night Fighter: C. F. Rawnsley and
Robert Wright (Collins). Mostly about
flying Beaufighters from Middle Wallop
early in the war and Mosquitoes from
Hunsdon in the later part; John
Cunningham, the pilot, and his navi-
gator, the narrator, were veterans as
early as when they were given their
first demonstration of radar-screens.
Thereafter the accounts of flying
through the dark seeking an enemy
who is no more than a “blip” on a
radar-screen make eerie reading, as do
stories of flying through the wreckage
of a Heinkel they have just blown-up.
They objected to the smell of burning
Heinkels; it was something to do with
the light alloy in the German air-
frame; and they had good reason to
know it, having 18 or more kills to
their credit.


■I
: 0-
vO
m
4
mmmm
m
If you
really
care for
your car
.
always
use
Just like people, car engines respond to
kindness. Try it and see. Give your
car the blended, balanced, cushioning
lubrication of ENERGOL. Then sit
back, relax and wait for your reward—
easy starting, smooth running and a
fir.m refusal by your engine to cause
you undue expense or trouble. A
planned programme of ENERGOL
lubrication will keep you and your
car on the best of terms —particularly
on resale value.
109H3N3
A complete range of ENERGOL
automotive oils, including
ENERGOL Visco-Static motor oil,
is available where you see these
pumps.
SUPER
J
LUBRICATION SERVICE
Marketed by THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REfINEPIES LTD, an associate of The British Petroleum Company Ltd
C 548
