

SOLERO
SWEET OR DR Y
✓s
The Bulletin
Orange Field-day Aivards
Wednesday, December 4, 1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
ROSS CASTLE, one of Ireland’s best preserved fortresses, is situated
on a wooded peninsula known as Ross Island, which extends
into Lough Leane, the largest of the Killarney lakes, in County
Kerry. Ross Castle has stood there since the 14lh century, and it
figured prominently in the Cromwellian wars. In 1652 it was
defended by Royalist forces under Lord Musketry against General
Ludlow, whose siege of the castle finally succeeded when he sent gun-
boats up the nearby River Laune from Castlemaine Harbour. The
sudden appearance of the boats on the lake persuaded the garrison
to surrender. It was the last fortress in Ireland to be taken by'
Cromwell’s troops.
Among the owners of Ross Castle was O’Donoghue, an
adventurous chieftain whose name is recorded in many landmarks
and legends of the Killarney district. He was buried at nearby
Muckross Abbey, which was founded bv Doha! MacCarthy and
occupied by Franciscans in 1448. The Abbey was raided by Eliza-
bethan soldiery in 1589, and burned by General Ludlow’s troops in
1652. Other chieftains buried there are MacCarthy and O’Sullivan.
A stone spiral staircase leads to the top of the well-preserved
keep of Ross Castle which provides magnificent views of the Lakes of
Killarney. Although three in number, they are really a single sheet
of water divided into three portions by narrow tongues of land.
In addition to Lough Leane, which is five miles long, there is
Muckross Lake and Upper Lake, the smallest and most beautiful of
these island-studded lakes. On the Island of Inn is fa lien are the
ruins of an abbey founded by St. Finian. It was there that the
famous historical work called the “Annals of Innisfallen” was
compiled in the 13th century, the only copy of which is preserved
in Oxford’s Bodleian Library.
From the green banks and glistening waters of the lakes rise
the Killarney Mountains, the highest of which are known as
MacGillycuddy’s Reeks, where the last wolf in Ireland was killed in
the year 1700. According to tradition, the last snake in Ireland was
drowned by St. Patrick in Black Lough, near the Gap of Dunloe.
NEAR KILLARNEY, ROSS CASTLE HAS STOOD
FOR ALMOST 300 YEARS
No. 377 : the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


STORY WRITING &
FREELANCE JOURNALISM!
LTARN AT HOME
. . . and EARN in your SPARE TIME
There is a bigr demand for welt-written
work. Head these brief extracts—open for
inspection on onr files —from the letters
of STOTT-Students
“My acceptances in tjie ‘Border Morning Mail’
earned me approximately £5O
“My tally of 05 contributions is not bad for
one 60 years old.”
“I consider your Literary Course the most
valuable thing I have ever invested in.”
“Some weeks I have had as many as five
acceptances in ‘The Bulletin.’ ”
“Since Lesson 6 1 have had quite a steady
fiou of cheques.”
“My writing is q fascinating hobby and brings
in quite acceptable cash.”
Stotts Correspondence College
lOti KUfesell St.. Melbourne; 14» CastlereagJi Sr..
Sjdriev ; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CVT AND MAIL THIS COUPOS -
To STOTT'S: Pl?ase send me, without any obli
Ration, your Prospectus, and full particulars ot
your Literary Courses,
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 2357) AGE
BOOK II U'N TER. Box 2671, G.P-0... Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you-fiction,
text book, biofrrnphv, history,, etc. iloderatfl
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
PUZZLED BY "PUNCH"
Dear Mr. Muggeridge, —I think I
have as keen a sense of humor as the
next man (ha ha) and if 1 see a man
falling off a high building, a missionary
sitting in a cannibal-pot or a sailor
making love to a mermaid on a desert
island I usually laugh my head off. In
fact my wife tells me that is what is
the matter —I have forgotten to put it
back (ha ha).
Be that as it may, since whatever
you or I may say that is what, willy
nilly, it will be, may I draw your atten-
tion to a picture on page 49 of The
Pick of Punch lately published by
Messrs. Andre Deutsch?
Now here we have a picture, in
three parts, of a workman painting a
Belisha-beacon. In the first picture he
has painted it in three stripes or patches.
In the second picture he is walking
away from it, apparently satisfied, and
carrying what appears to be a hard-
boiled egg. The paint on the pole has
begun to run a little. In the third
picture he is looking back, startled,
still carrying the hard-boiled egg, to
see that all the paint has run smoothly
down to the bottom of the pole, so
that it looks rather like a thermometer.
Now, sir, whatever my wife may say,
lam not a simpleton. It is perfectly
clear to me what the joke is. The
fellow has forgotten to eat his hard-
boiled egg (ha ha), is looking at the
thermometer to see what the time is.
(My wife says that the joke is that the
paint has all run down to the bottom
of the beacon, but, as usual, she has
missed the point.)
By jove, sir, I saw in a flash, after
about five minutes, the joke on the
next page. ■ It is a restaurant where all
the signs and notices are in Chinese
except for one which clearly says in
English, in very large letters, “Cashier.”
The joke is, of course, that none of the
Chinese customers would know where
to pay. (My wife says that the
customers are all obviously English,
and that the joke is the other way
round; but what she means by that
Heaven knows. 1 cannot see anything
reversed in the picture, and 1 think I
know a Chinaman when I see one. If
there are none in the picture, as my
wife says, they must be meant to come
in later.)
Sir. I do not wish to trespass too long
on your valuable time. I am not paid
lineage for the letters I write (ha. ha)
as some lucky fellows may be who
write articles about the Queen. God
bless her. for the “Saturday Evening
Post.” No. sir.
But may I, with the greatest possible
brevity, just mention the joke on page
77 where a knight in armor, on horse-
back. has. apparently, an electric
bedside-lamp, giving forth clouds of
smoke, protruding from the small of
his back? I confess, sir. that this has
me absolutely stonkered; and if my
wife, as she does, insists that the lamp
is the torch from the Statue of Liberty
and you are having another of your
cracks at those damned Yankees I
can only bow to her superior wisdom.
I showed this one to Major Fother-
gill. by the way. who has a particularly
keen sense of humor (51st Mechanised
Dragoons, ret.), and he said the lamp
was really the knight’s exhaust-pipe
and proved (ha ha ha, by Gad. that
may be it!) that he had only one horse-
power. Mr. Phillip Daughter, on the
other hand (the house-painter), main-
tains that it is a chimney. As I pointed
out to him, before he lit out for the
scullery in a huff, knights in armor
were never equipped with a chimney,
so Major Fothergill must be right,
unless, of course, my wife was. But
that is improbable.
One word more. It is painfully
clear, sir, that under your editorship,
sex in Great Britain has considerably
gone ahead. I have nothing to say on
the propriety or otherwise of this
development; each to his own taste, I
say. and while sex may be all very
well in the club, if possible, I may say,
sir, that I would not now show your
paper to my unmarried daughter, aged
47. But. by Heaven, sir. I have just
worked out the meaning of the inkwell
which appears in the last of the three
pictures on page 101 in which a girl
is diving from a springboard. It is
not an inkwell at all—she has jumped
clean out of her costume, by jove!
(Oh, ha ha ha! But is it fair to
indicate what has happened merely by
a few indecipherable splashes? I mean
to say, in real life, surely the girl would
come up again? Perhaps that one is
over the page. No, I see not. Pity.)
Ahem.
What I am frying to convey to you,
sir, with all the succinctness at my
command, is that bathing-costumes,
when worn, should be "instantly
apparent, otherwise your less observant
readers may miss the point; and if not
worn, or fallen off, then even more so.
I am aware, my dear sir, that since
you have left “Punch” and are now
chiefly engaged in boosting-up the
British Monarchy (God bless it!) for
the “Saturday Evening Post,” I am,
so to speak, in writing to you, locking
the stable-door after the horse has
bolted. But all these matters did crop
up under your editorship, and I have
no doubt that you will be grateful for a
little frank, constructive criticism.
Let me add. my dear sir. in case you
should think me too drastic, that (quite
apart from the one about the inkwell,
ha ha!). I thoroughly enjoyed “The
Pick of Punch” from cover to cover.
Take, for instance, the one about the
middle-aged lady falling over a cliff
on page 33. Now. there is something
anyone can laugh at. and, as I have
pointed out to her, the cream of the
joke is she looks the spitting image
of my wife!
I am. sir,
Yours respectfully,
J. Pettigrew (Maj. Late
10th Puddlecomb Hobbyhorse, ret.).
P.S. My wife says that, anyhow, it
isn't a hard-boiled egg but the handle
of the paint-pot.
Restaurateur Family
No odors of spoiled materials, so
dear to amateurs of French cookery,
rise from La Maison; The History of
Prunier’s, by Madame Prunier (Long-
mans); it is a businesslike biography
of a business so big that for its own
sake its proprietors had to take a hand
in the regulation of French primary
industry.
The restaurant was established by her
grandfather, son of a Normandy farmer,
who gravitated to Paris and graduated
from the exacting school of cellarman
and oyster-opener. He married the
housekeeper of Princess Dolgoruki,
morganatic wife of a Russian Grand
Duke, and in 1872 they set up shop in
a street from which they were evicted
to make way for the Avenue de
l’Opera, and then reopened at Rue
Duphot, still going strong. Things
(Continued on page 66)


V
B 0951 “While I Live I’ll Grow” Box 2712
100 Only Famous Make
WELLSTOOD COOKERS REDUCED!
1-
•' " : ' y'' -. :
mk
Xv.W^Xvrv.v:
liiiii
, v
- y
it
£B7 io'
Mail this coupon now!
Special Offer' This is your opportunity to own the famous "WELLSTOOD heat storage cooker! It
gives you Instant cooking service and ample HOT water with no extra running cost Think of the
instant service of the ever ready, spacious hot plate And cleaning . . . something you don t have
,tO think about, merely wipe over the gleaming porcelain enamel finish and your WELLSTOOD retains
jits showroom beauty. This popular cooker burns any solid fuel . . .*•« /'efficiently,
providing a cooking service second to none, at the same time heating water for all the household
ty/EIISTOQD has two roomy ovens Sacrificing these cookers at £B7/10/.- Post to Box 2712, G P.O
PLEASE SUPPLY ME WITH A
WELLSTOOD STOVE
*(Fir*» Name) (Middle Name) (Surname)
ADDRESS
POST OFFICE . _ STATE .i imr
NEAREST RAILWAY STATION


The Bulletin
Wednesday , December 4,1957
Vol 78—No. 4060
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westraha : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
UNIVERSITIES AND GENIUS
THE report of the Murray Commission
on Australian universities, tabled in
the House of Representatives, raises
the whole question of higher-education
in Australia.
Education has long been the play-
thing of the politicians, both in regard
to the rights of children and adolescents
and in methods and subject-matter.
There is evidence that in some States it
is being school-level to condi-
tion the minds of children for party
political purposes.
The same tendency is present in
some universities; in fact, the whole
education system lends itself to the
propagation of Leftism, for it is so
regimented that even Professor
Oliphant, himself no conservative,
complains that the Australian educa-
tional system makes for regimentation
of thought and lags behind the
Russians in promoting individualism.
The Murray report and its reception
by governmental authorities illustrates
the current outlook on formal educa-
tion. Its statistics and estimates show
that if the present system is to continue
an immense sum—about £23 million
extra —will have to be spent on the
universities in the next three years to
meet a mounting university population.
This the Commonwealth will approxi-
mately provide.
Already university students number
36,500, and a 120 per cent, increase is
expected in the next 10 years, making
the numbers 80.D00. Even now it
appears that the universities suffer from
shocking shortages of staff—underpaid
—equipment, buildings and. in fact,
everything but students —who are
increasing in numbers in tune with the
development of the high-school system
and the readiness of Governments to
ladle-out taxpayers’ money to create
thousands of graduates, only a very
small minority of whom really repay the
community for the effort.
There are some professions which
need a university education behind
them, or at least some advanced tech-
nical course, but the position of a great
part of the students who go to universi-
ties needs a little careful thought as
to whether it is worth while for the
Government to invest large sums to
turn them into graduates.
The idea has been created in past
years that genius is watered by
cramming four-year courses into the
minds of youth and that no boy or
girl can possibly cope with the battle
of life on a fair basis unless harnessed
to letters 8.A., B.Ec., 8.C0m., Dip.
This or Dip. That. It is impossible
now to enter the Law or Medicine
without a university degree, though it
is doubtful whether the barristers, for
example, of today are better than those
who served three or four years in some,
counsel’s chambers, meanwhile studying
to pass their examinations before the
Barristers’ board.
Higher education, of course, is
eminently necessary to the right type
of mind if it is the right type of educa-
tion which encourages independence
of thought and teaches the under-
graduate how to use his ability. But
there are thousands receiving a
university education for reasons which
can only be called snob reasons—
because parents tend to believe and
Governments foster the idea that white-
collar workers with letters after their
names are higher in the social scale than
mere clever boys and girls who have
risen without the advantage of
university training.
So fixed has the idea become that
university education is a necessary
prerequisite to senior employment in
every walk of life and that the
university graduate is entitled to prefer-
ence over others in promotion, that a
timely reminder is needed that genius
needs no hood and gown. Few of the
men who have done the basic work in
revolutionising the modern world had
the benefit of a university education.
To take a mixed bag. Arkwright,
Faraday, Stephenson, Watt, Edison.
Alexander Graham Bell, the Wright
brothers, Charles Dickens and
thousands more in literature, art and
the sciences, even including a poor
fellow without a Ph.D., or even a
matriculation pass, named William
Shakspeare, and a wretched illiterate
who was not even “failed 8.A.,” named
Abraham Lincoln, have triumphed
over the lack of qualification without
which in many fields of employment
in Australia they would today be
denied even junior jobs.
In Australia the universities have
made a very poor showing in literature
and the arts compared with the clean-
skins of the substratum who are
regarded as uneducated because
unhooded and ungowned. It is a
curious inversion of logic that while
men like Henry Lawson, Rolf Boldre-
wood, A. B. Paterson and scores of
others who are nationally known or
immortal in Australian literary annals
were none of them university men, the
universities have no names to offer to
compare with them; that most of them
would have starved, as some of them
did starve, on the practice of the
abilities, self-developed, which made
them famous; yet that a vigorous
campaign has recently been fought in
Sydney to produce money to pay some-
body at a university £3OOO a year to
teach the young idea how excellent
these non-scholastic writers were.
For specific types of qualifying
course, graduation is an essential need;
but there is no justification for
the establishment of the shibboleths
which seem to have become axioms in
the thinking of politicians, and which
are naturally encouraged by some
university authorities, that cramming a
youngster fitted to be a good clerk or
mechanic through a degree course
instead of catching him young and
fitting him for a lifework suited to his
natural capacities endows him with
some special qualities and rights and
benefits the economy.
The average university faculty has
no chance to teach the average student
to think and to make the best of him-
self. Students are so numerous in some
faculties that professors have no-chance
of getting to know all the students by
name, and all that can be done is to
shove most through their years like
mobs of cattle. Some brighter minds
later spend years taking advantages
of post-graduate scholarships which
enable them to tour abroad and return
as members of the great elite of pro-
fessional long-hairs leading cloistered
and fairly fatted lives producing
nothing but theses.
What is wanted in relation to the
universities is a greater selectiveness
and certainly a wider insistence that
unless a student has a really special
aptitude for learning in some particular
field or in research or science he should
pay his own way, or at least earn it.
The community should look for returns
from the so-called cultural faculties
of the universities if it is to continue
to pay the piper on the present
expanding scale.
The whole system needs streamlining
for efficiency. At present the universi-
ties are in the main a mushroom
growth developing soft bulk through the
economic boom. And there is a too
facile acceptance of the theory, which
they themselves do so much to propa-
gate, that everything they demand is
a matter of vital necessity to the
development of the country.
Some of their scientific and techno-
logical faculties need substantial
expansion, others could be curtailed
without much loss to anybody.


"I'M HERE TO SEE THAT YOU GIVE THIS BLOKE A FAIR GO”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Tragic Drifts
President Eisenhower’s illness is tragic
coming at a crisis in world affairs.
Rightly or wrongly the United States
claims to be the leader of the Western
world, and the President is supposedly
its brain-centre and authoritative voice.
Yet for nearly two years, during which
policy has drifted in the wind like a jib
broken loose, President Eisenhower has
apparently been restricted in his activities
with a damaged heart and a threatened
cerebral system while others less respom
sible and less trustworthy have made
policy with effects which in some cases
have been dire.
This illness comes at a moment when
a conference of the Western Powers to
achieve exchange of defence secrets and
plans is imminent. It comes also at the
moment when Indonesia is defying the
world on West New Guinea and when
the “Eisenhower doctrine,” after a very
short trial, has proved a rather disastrous
flop. It comes when Egypt has definitely
turned to Russia for economic help and
when it is strongly suspected that in
return the Russians are to be granted
the right to establish rocket batteries,
Red Army manned, in the Suez area.
Little attention has been given by the
press to the fact that the dictatorships of
Egypt and Syria, rapidly assuming Com-
munist features, have achieved a virtual
Federal Union, placing Israel in a sand-
wich. At the same time Russia has
definitely assumed the right to dictate
conditions in the Middle East by tacking
on to one of its sullen propaganda warn-
ing to Turkey an even more alarming
one from Bulganin that Moscow “may
have to intervene to keep the peace in
the Middle East,” where, save for
disturbances caused by Russian machina-
tions, all has been as peaceful as it ever
is in that disturbed region.
All this, again, follows a gathering of
Communist leaders in Moscow, the
refurbishing of Communist plans Tor
control of Asia, and an agreement
on a plan to re-establish the Comintern.
Crisis is everywhere, and general
weakening of faith in Western policies
has developed since the Dulles blunders
over the Suez business last year and the
senseless humiliation of the United
Kingdom and France by their great ally
and its band of U.N. followers.
The best that can be said, however, of
the ability of the President of the
United States to take part in world
policy at this crucial juncture is that he
has had a cerebral occlusion, that he is
recovering and that his speech is “not
now much affected.”
Mr. Dulles, the real policy-maker, is
not in the best of health and far from
universally trusted in the West, and Mr.
Nixon, while young and vigorous, does
not carry the authority of his President
and has yet to make his way.
With France in its present state and
the British Labor party more bent on
manoeuvres to win the next election than
on showing the united national front that
is vitally necessary, the position is not
happy.
A little vigorous reaction against the
general drift seems to be called for from
Australia and Canada.
After 80 Years
With justifiable pride Melbourne Board
of Works last week asked the Victorian
Governor to open the Upper Yarra dam
which will have a capacity of 45,000-
million gallons and provide an adequate
supply for a population of more than
two million.
The project, which imaginative pioneers
envisaged 80 years ago, has won the
approval of overseas authorities and it
cost less than £l4 million —pretty close
to what it would have cost in older
countries. The First World War held up
its construction, then the depression and
finally the Second World War ; but the
board’s satisfaction embraces more than
the completion of the great work —its
gratitude to the engineers, technicians and
workmen, is inscribed on bronze plaques.
The dam has a tunnel half-a-mile under
a small mountain to divert the Yarra, a
retaining wall 293 ft. high by 2000 ft. long,
an outlet tunnel, a flood-control spillway
and a 23-mile pipeline to Silvan reservoir.
It is 1600 ft. wide at the base, has a water-
surface of 1830 acres and a catchment-
area of 81,000 acres.
Although Upper Yarra has twice the
' capacity of the combined total of the
board’s five other reservoirs and will
treble their storage capacity, it will still
not enable the board to supply all
demands on peak days. Piping capacity
has been vastly improved, but so quickly
has Melbourne developed in recent years
that on days of high temperature all
householders cannot be supplied.
Japan and Red China
Sensible men and women with the cause
of peace at heart will welcome the state-
ment of Brigadier Galleghan in strongly
supporting the visit of Japanese Prime
Minister Kishi.
Nobody saw more of the bad side of
the Japanese invasion forces than
Galleghan, who commanded the A.I.F.
in Changi prison - camp after going
through some of the toughest fighting in
the peninsula as C.O. of the 2/30
Battalion. Yet with all his knowledge
gained during three years in prison-camp
and as the repository of the grievances
of all Australian captives in Malaya, he
accepts the visit as a gesture of peaceful
association and declares that after 12
years from the end of the war “if we want
to maintain peace, we must show our
bona fides.”
As Galleghan points out, in Europe
the free nations are working in the closest
harmony and unity with Western
Germany. “Indeed, a German general
is leading the Nato forces.”
The silly agitation against the Kishi
visit would scarcely be possible in any
other country involved in the war. In
the United States there are few traces of
bitterness remaining and the English are
traditionally a forgiving race, though they
may not readily forget.
That anything can be gained by in-
sulting a visitor who comes to promote
trade at the very core of Australian
prosperity, which would be a flaccid thing
without Japanese woolbuying, seems out
of keeping altogether with commonsense,
and that there should be any opposition
to peaceful approaches by a nation
which has bitterly expiated its offences
by the loss of millions of lives and by
having nearly all its great coastal cities
laid in ruin by fire and bomb in a manner
calculated to make even the most hardened
shudder, would be strange if the driving-
force behind the ugly demonstrations of
un-Australianism were not patent.
Every Communist union plays the
Russian game in keeping alive old sores.
Dr. Evatt and his followers do their best
to keep alive the diehard hatred, prodded
behind by Comrades Healy and E. V.
Elliott and their like, whose purpose is
to keep the non-Communist nations of
the Pacific divided.
It is disturbing and illogical, especially
when it is remembered that there seems
to be no anger whatever against the
Communist Chinese who intruded them-
selves into, the Korean war gratuitously,
who murdered and tortured and brain-
washed Australians and who are believed
even now to be partners with their fellow-
aggressors of Northern Korea in holding
as slaves captured Australian soldiers.
We sell nothing to Communist China.
We have little to hope from it. But the
very people who most vigorously attempt
to make accord with Japan impossible
are those who press most heartily for
friendly relations with the bloodstained
Russian-sponsored conquerors of Peking.
Is There a Fly in the House?
On two counts the Federal Government
has itself to blame for the position of its
banking bills. It was returned to power
in 1949 specifically on the banking issue.
It promised to rationalise the position,
but has taken eight years to produce its
present plan. Before the defeat of the
Labor Government (and in anticipation
of it) Dr. Evatt and his minions
“reformed” the Senate in a way which
they rightly deduced might enable them
to flout the will of the electors whenever
a crisis arose. Although well aware of
this, the Government has done nothing
to redress the position in the Senate,
preferring merely to let things drift.
None of this, of course, justifies the
attitude and tactics of Labor. The vote
of 1949 showed that the country was not
only not burning for socialisation of
banking but overwhelmingly opposed to
it, and nothing that has happened since
suggests that it has changed its mind.
There has been no uprising against the
banking legislation now in process of
rejection. Indeed, the bulk of the


criticism, outside the more savage Leftist
sections of Labor, has been due to
nervousness that protection for the private
financial system does not go far enough.
Last week’s proceedings in Canberra
are indicative of the state of “democracy”
in the Labor party. Labor’s platform
calls for abolition of the Senate, it being
regarded as undemocratic that an Upper
House should interfere with the decisions
of the Lower or “democratic” House.
Yet on a major occasion, on vital legisla-
tion which has had the unqualified
endorsement of public opinion for years,
and of the House of Representatives, Dr.
Evatt and his lieutenants scream with
fictitious rage at the efforts of the Gov-
ernment to avert defeat at the hands of
an old man brought 300 miles from
hospital. The whole fate of the banking
bills, which mean the difference between
a future Labor Government being able to
introduce complete socialisation or not,
apparently depends on the ability of one
of several invalids to be in a condition
to be wheeled into the Senate Chamber,
where his silent presence will constitute
a vote even if he is more than half-
unconscious or perishes in a coma while
the count is being announced.
For all the indignant air of drama, no
one really thinks such an ending likely.
But respect for Labor tacticians begins
to flag when one salient omission from
their precautions is observed. As an
historical expert, Dr. Evatt is doubtless
familiar with the early Australian genius
of his own profession who once, while he
guided a dead man’s hand to sign a will,
held a buzzing fly in the testator’s mouth
so that he could later testify that there
was life in him when he signed.
Should the new Labor technique
become standard practice the retinue of
doctors, nurses, wheelers, political
observers and others who accompany
debilitated voters in their moment of
trial should surely include a dexterous
fly-bearer.
A Brick in the Cistern
In the matter of water-supply Sydney
“never is, but always to be blessed.”
In 1941-42, when the last drought imposed
stringent water-restrictions on the city—
no water for gardens ; a ban on hot-water
systems and sink-heaters; a 4in.
maximum level in the bath ; a brick in
the toilet-cistern and so on —the Water
Board story was that it wouldn’t happen
again ; when Warragamba was finished
water-troubles would be a thing of the
past. On paper it certainly seemed likely,
as the scheduled capacity of the reservoir
is, as they delight to tell us, five (or is it
six?) times the volume of Sydney Harbor.
A more useful yardstick, since no one
has ever seriously attempted to drink
Sydney Harbor, is that Warragamba will
hold 10 times as much water as all the
rest of Sydney’s reservoirs put together.
Unfortunately, it doesn’t hold it yet,
and Sydney is in for another bout of
restrictions, beginning with a complete
ban on hoses and leading inevitably to
the brick.
Understandable the restrictions may be,
but the dictatorial manner of their
imposition is most unpalatable. When
the first bans failed to produce the saving
considered necessary by the board its
chairman rebuked the public for not play-
ing fair, announced further restrictions
and warned that if householders weren’t
more careful there’d be worse to come.
This has been a very dry year, and the
Water Board must have been aware
months ago that restrictions were on the
cards. Yet no warnings were given and
there was no campaign to save water
before the really hot weather came.
The Water Board posts most of its
accounts for rates in July, and the four
months’ period in which the. bills can
be paid without incurring penalty for late
payment expires for most people at the
end of October. Was the board waiting
until it got most of its money in before
cutting-down its supply?
Enlarged Christmas
Number
Next issue of The Bulletin will
be an enlarged Christmas number of
76 pages in which will appear the
first instalment of a serial story by
A. B. Sherlock, entitled “The Man
on the Handkerchief” (the freakish
world-beating boxer, famous in Ring
history as the one and only Griffo ).
Other features in an issue packed
with reading-matter and black-and-
white drawings include:
% The Seven Rivers: Douglas
Stewart.
• Pioneers and a Parachute:
J. B. Blair.
• Goggling Through the Guggen-
heim : Olaf Ruhen.
• A Man’s World: John Morrison.
Verse includes two novel items —a
remarkable poem by an aboriginal
woman, in her own language and in
translation, and the words and music
of a song, “Love Me, and Never
Leave ‘ Me,’’ written and composed
by Ronald McCuaig.
A Doll's Life
[From Herbert Holman, London]
There is disappointment here at the
premature withdrawal of the first all-
Australian success in London. “The
Summer of the Seventeenth Doll” has
won the critics’ acclaim and, by its
earthy gusto and essential trueness, has
also deeply affected British audiences.
The seven months’ run which the
reference-books will record is an inade-
quate reflection of its impact.
It is unfortunate, too, that word has
got around that the reason for the play’s
withdrawal is the actors’ tiredness. The
theatre is a chancy profession in which
to earn a living and high success, when it
comes, is much envied, for the rewards
can be as fantastic as they are rarely-
bestowed. Furthermore, the reputation
which Australians have for exceptional
toughness seems, to some people, incon-
sistent with the decision to end the run.
Ray Lawler, with whom I had a long
and frank conversation, sees the matter
in another light. He admits that the cast
is tired, but assures me that this is only
one of several factors. The main reason
for the decision is the need to open in
America during the Broadway season:
that means very soon (early January), or
a postponement to September, 1958. His
company has been together for two
years, and the earlier period was
especially strenuous, for they played all
the State capitals as well as other places.
The Theatre Guild and Roger Stephens,
who are putting on the play in New York,
anticipate a run of eighteen months. To
have postponed the opening until Sep-
tember would thus mean a run of over
four years. “That would be impossible,”
Lawler declared emphatically.
What writer (or, for that matter, actor)
does not hope for success? But success
obviously doesn’t arrive without con-
flicts and stresses. Of these, surfeit is
not the least upsetting. The truth is that
Lawler, like many conscientious artists
before him, would like to put his creation
behind him and turn his energies to
something else. In other words, the doll
threatens to take control of its master
and the summer sun, being eternal,
threatens to blind.
The film? “I don’t know anything
about it,” he replied, “except that my
agent told me he had sold the rights and
the figure he had obtained.” He did not
know that it was to be shot near
Melbourne, was ignorant of the casting
and had no intention of giving a hand with
the script.
The new play? “Not very much is
forthcoming. I am a slow worker and
need quiet and leisure. Writing is im-
possible with seven performances and
three conferences a week.” So it will be
some time before Lawler, who considers
himself more a writer than an actor, is
able to settle down to his craft.
Meanwhile, “The Doll” is spreading
about the world in translation. Its
creator, happily-married and quiet-living,
wishes only to lead the same kind of life
as he does in Australia.
He, and all the company, have enjoyed
their stay in England and cherish the
generosity and warmth of their reception.
But none of them has any roots here.
They all look forward to coming back
home. Undoubtedly they are stale. The
six-weeks’ break, including a month’s
holiday, before they open on Broadway
should cheer their spirits and restore
their freshness.
London was new, and uncertain, ground
to break. But, with this behind them and
the consciousness of a world-wide repu-
tation to fortify them, the American
premiere should hold no terrors. They’ll
all feel better when that’s over.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
IN the heat of the hot spell I sighted
our neighbor working in his
garden with a two-day growth of blue-
black beard on his chin, wearing a
battered old felt hat and a pair of torn,
stained khaki shorts. No shoes, no shirt,
no socks! “Honestly,” I said, “if it wasn’t
for woman, man would still be living in
caves!” “Listen, lady,” he said, scratch-
ing his bare tummy with an earthy
trowel, “if it wasn’t for woman, man
would still be living in the Garden of
Eden.” —“New Chum.”
❖ ❖
“Roger Mike”: Know a car-salesman
who never insures for more than £6OO
any car that he owns ; he reckons that if
he does more damage than that he’s un-
likely to live to collect it. But on the
cars that he sells he insists that his custo-
mers take out full cover —for a similar
reason.
* * *
“Sevenelms”: The old - established
Borneo “Herald” has obviously moved
with the times and appointed some
indigenous staff. A charity-ball in
Jesselton evokes from the social editress
the delightfully colloquial comment that
it was regrettable that the fireworks
display was bitched-up by the inclement
weather. Touching on male dress in the
terpsichorean field on the same occasion
it is breezily recorded that some of the
nattiest gents wore Hollywood-type
tuxedos, but most of the old-timers stuck
to bumfreezers.
“Sousa”: The lottery launched to
provide funds for the State Opera House
isn’t the first of its kind. A sum of
£300,000 was raised by public lottery in
1753 in order to buy and house the first
of the collections for the British Museum!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Vox Populi”: Maybe the New Aus-
tralian mentioned by “Fragmos” (B.
13/11/ ’57) who had achieved owing the
bank £6OOO did have a good reason to
thrust out his chest proudly. “Fragmos”
can bet the last button of his shirt that
no bank would advance 6000 smackers
to anyone unless it had gilt-edged security
on tangible assets worth at the very least
£14,000. No?
4^4
“Paddy Doyle”: After the ordeal of a
vacation in Sydney, I am astounded at
the variance of tram-passengers’ habits
in different areas. Vaucluse and Bellevue
Hill, usually regarded by bush-brothers
as faultless in manners, seldom produced
a male who offered his seat to a strap-
hanging female. On the Wynyard-Crow’s
Nest run every man swapped his seat for
the lady’s grip of strap and they were
not all Miss Australias. Apart from it
being North Sydney’s civic week, anyone
have a reason for the 100 per cent,
etiquette of this homely-cwm-business
suburb?
“Bookie’s Dog”: Met a Chinese lad,
studying medicine at the Melbourne
University, for whom a visit to Fleming-
ton to see this year’s Melbourne Cup was
his first time ever on a racecourse. The
lad lost count of the number of people
who “touched him for luck,” requested a
look at his racebook, and asked him for
“a tip.” Oddly enough, he backed, and
tipped to all those who pestered him,
Straight Draw —the winner. The lad
won £25, but thinks it may be a long
time before he goes racing again.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Corio”: As part of its centenary
celebrations senior boys of Geelong
Grammar School numbering 1400 put on
a historical pageant. Covering a canvas
of 200 years from Hogarth’s London
through the arrival of the First Fleet,
exploring and pioneering expeditions, the
foundation of the school, to the present
day, the pageant had 150 speaking-parts,
with stock, carts and drays thrown in for
good measure. It was an impressive bit
of work, from that of the master who
wrote it right down through the boys
who caught the spirit of the opus so
well.
“ That's the big boss —he suffers from claustrophobia .”
“SEVEN WISE MEN”
“The Archbishop of Canterbury outlined a
scheme for ‘seven wise men’ to consider au
British wage-, dividend- and pension-increases.
When the call goes out
For seven wise men
There’ll be plenty about
To choose from — then.
And when they ride
The national will,
Some will decide
They’re wiser still;
But to others’ surprise
It will soon be seen
That they weren’t so wise
As they might have been,
And might, when chosen,
Have shown more wit
If they hadn’t gone nosin’
Into it.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Angus Bob”: When he was in Eng-
land during the First World War William
Morris Hughes (B. 6/11/’57) must have
impressed Sir William Robertson Nicoll,
who was a distinguished editor and man
of letters. Nicoll, as a literary critic,
wanted to find out where Hughes got his
style, how he could command words as
he did and spoke of his * brilliant and
burning addresses.” He said that both
Hughes and Lloyd George seemed to
have the gift of hitting on the finest and
choicest expressions every here and
there. Jn 1918, in a letter to a friend,
Nicoll wrote: —
We had W. M. Hughes, the Prime
Minister of Australia, and his wife to
dinner. They are the greatest book-
lovers I have met for a long time, and have
an astonishing knowledge. Nothing said
about tariffs, two sentences about the War,
and then books, books, books.
♦I* ❖ *•>
“Meg”: The secretary was addressing
a women’s club on the admittance of
refugee-children into the country. “But,”
interrupted a member indignantly, “do
you mean that you’d admit a child un-
seen?” “What's so unusual about that?”
answered the speaker. “1 never saw any
of my children until they were delivered.”
*x* *1*
“R.”: An investigation into the taking
of photographs in a Victorian prison is
being held in camera.
* *>
“J.L.”: “Dolphin's” League-of-Nations
experience in Singapore is outstripped by
a happening at lnnisfail just after Japan
entered the war. A number of Japanese
on their way to the railway-station en
route to an internment-camp were con-
veyed in a bus owned by an Italian and
driven by a Greek. The police escort
comprised Messrs.- Erbacher, Grienke,
Ziegenfurz and Kundt, and the bus-
windscreen bore a • sticker reading
“There’ll always be an England.”
* ❖ ♦>
“O.W.W.”: Envelope-licking an un-
interesting chore (B. 23/10/’57) —a girl
1 know is definite. “Had a row with the
boss today over not getting the mail
sealed in time,” she explained. “How
does he expect me to eat nuts and lick
envelopes, too ?”
♦$*
PASS ON YOUR "BUUET1N"—
if you wish, but there is a way of keeping
faith with your friend or relative and at
the same time retaining your Bulletin
for reading at your leisure those special
articles and stories you sometimes miss
through lack of time when the issue is
current. This year give him a Bulletin
Gift-subscription. Take you five-minutes.
Just fill-in the subscription-form in this
issue and post it. Towards Christmas we
will send him a Christmas-card announc-
ing your gift and signed with your name.
No money handy? Then we’ll send you
an account in the New Year.
“Fair Mac”: But was there ever an
idea that “the schoolmarm hasn’t any-
hmg to teach adults (B. 13/Jl/’57)?
1 lecall a gem of wisdom uttered in one
of the early talkies, ’way back in ’32:
“You can always tell a schoolteacher—
but you can’t tell her much.”,
A
“Maitri”: Judging by the way music
in Australia is bringing up its big guns
“ Well , this is the way I like tea: no milk or
sugar , and above all — hot."
it looks as if it intends to make itself
heard. One Cannon has succeeded W. G.
James as A.B.C. Federal Director of
Music while another of the same name
replaces Peter Platt (who goes to a job
in N.Z. ) as Lecturer in Music at Sydney
University* There’s also a musical
monthly called “The Canon,” but per-
haps that’s different?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Swanee”: “Bo’s” friend could have
told him that the first lesson given to
a pharmacist's assistant was to take at
least twenty minutes to make up a scrip
even if it only entailed removing the
proprietary-label and pasting on one of
the chemist’s own. This was to persuade
the customer that so difficult a prepara-
tion entailed years of experience. There
is no doubt about aqua pura being the
chemist’s best friend, and tnore than a
little truth in the story of the
impecunious customer who planked
down 4d. on the counter against the
4s. mentioned by the chemist, picked up
the bottle and started for the door. He
was rocked on his heels when the
chemist called out, “Hey, you, I’ve still
done you for tuppence.”
* * *
“Warick”: Six people rushed to board
an already-overloaded bus which had
pulled up to discharge a passenger. A
stentorian voice called out “All off the
platform or the bus doesn’t start.” Five
got off, leaving the owner
of the voice with the plat-
form to himself.
“Penulis”: The cure-all
pills mentioned in
“J.D.K.’s” paragraph (B.
9/10/ ’57) lack the initiative
shown by a bottle of elixir
I have found on the worm-
eaten shelves of a shop in a
Malay village. The bottle
is dark-green, ominously
shaped like a large iodine-
bottle, and the liquid inside
is a heavily viscous brown
and doubtful matter of
equally ominous portent
and noisy smell. It carries a
dark-red label printed in
four languages (and four
scripts), depicting a figure
like the Shropshire Lad on
an off-day, and modestly
undertaking to cure all
“coughs and tuberculosis,
sprains, headaches, tooth-
aches, earaches, unable to
s 1 e e p, elphic origins,
venereal diseases and smelly
gurglings of the stomach.”
1 fingered my thin wallet of
Malayan dollars, and very
decently the shopkeeper let
me have it for twenty-five
cents—ninepence in Aus-
tralia. I have soaked off
the label and added it to
my stamp-collection; but
what wailing and woe we’ll hear from
Macquarie Street if this stuff ever gets
into Australia!
<£♦ *l*
“Nig”: A most hospitable friend found
it against his principles to hand over his
hefty accumulation of empties to the
Boy Scouts’ bottle-drive. Thought the
total residue of a variety of hard likker
might be a temptation towards the down-
ward path. But the regular bottle-oh
who called shortly after had a more
realistic reason: “You were quite right,
Mr. B. Our business is confidential!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Maitri”: Medical etiquette aside,
medicos’ families have little faith
in their doctor-in-the-house; like-
wise with the families of patent-
medicine manufacturers. Down our
street lives the inventor and owner of
a brand of pills to be found in almost
every household. Visiting a woman-
friend, his wife complained she’d been
off-color for a long time, so when she was


leaving her hostess handed her half-a-
dozen tablets in an envelope. Next day,
when her husband came home she
couldn’t stop talking about the tablets
and said she’d have to find out their name
so she could get some more. There was
still one left; her lord and master
examined it, and laughed like a hyena.
Merely because of the coincidence that
he made them, I trust.
+**
“Sebak”: I am sadly disappointed in
our fishshop - proprietors. It seems
“I'm after rutile!"
incredible that intellects capable of
evolving the scallop by the simple opera-
tion of slicing potatoes instead of cutting
them in the traditional oblong of the
chip, not to mention the gift for nomen-
clature behind the battering of a hot-dog,
dunking it in with the fried fish and
extracting it as a “dagwood,” should
have missed such a heaven- or something-
sent opportunity to cash-in on topicalities.
Disillusioned, I still await the advent of
the spudnik.
❖ * -
“Imperial 55”: It isn’t really hard to do
two or three things at once (B. 13 /11/’57).
In the days when every invoice was typed
in full on customers’ statements I
worked a bookkeeping-machine for a
country store, and after .the first few
months it became second nature for me
to type a shearer’s grocery-order or a
plumber’s requirements for a job from
the carbon-copy of a docket and think
about something entirely different at the
same time. Half the mind seemed to
keep alert, as any irregularities
immediately rang a warning bell. I can
still do it, though nowadays not typing
from dockets, and it certainly saves a lot
of time when doing routine work to be
able to plan out the next job or cope
with current problems and still churn out
the typing required for the day.
£« *J«
“Sanasi”: Variation of the story about
the babu who declared himself a “British
Object”: a New Australian called at a
Brisbane optometrist’s rooms to have a
sore eye attended to. The optometrist
examined the eye and said, “Hmm, a
foreign body is present.” The Naussie
was indignant, “ Nein,” he said; “no
longer am I the foreign body, I have been
naturalised”!
♦j+ *j»
“Kia-Ora”: I had just moved in and
didn’t know my neighbors, but asked
them in for a drink and a piece of
Christmas-cake. After settling themselves,
Daddy said, “We don’t drink anything
strong.” I said I had lemonade. “We
can’t have that,” he said, “the gas—you
know.” I offered orange-juice and they
settled for that. Seeing me get a bottle of
cold water from the ’fridge, he said,
“None of that —the cold upsets us ; just
from the tap, please.” As my water-pipe
runs along the west wall the water must
have been near boiling, but they seemed
to enjoy themselves.
♦> ❖
“C.W.S.”: I wonder no aspiring Bully
poet has yet attempted an ode to cellulose-
tape. The uses of this stuff, apart from
mucking brown paper I used to save to
cover the kids’ school-books, seem limit*
less. Noticed a shop-window advert, on
a vacuum-cleaner claiming the suction
would “lift a brick.” Said brick was
sticking to the nozzle like the missus to
the child-endowment. It didn’t take too
much of a look to see it was firmly
anchored with yards of the transparent
tape.
❖ *> ❖
“Babu”: “Bo” (B. 23/10/’57) should
travel and stamp-lick in countries of the
Middle and Far East. There the flavor of
the gum is far from standardised ; par-
ticularly in India, some of the flavors are
so repulsive that one soon gives up licking
—the usual method is to wet one’s finger
and moisten the stamp with this, if one
hasn’t a sponge.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Athle”: He learned to run, he told
me, by stoning Chinamen, who were
numerous about his boyhood home.
Years later, at a sports-meeting, he
noticed that his appearance set a group
of Chinese chattering excitedly as they
pointed him out. They all, he learned
later, remembered his boyish per-
formances so well that, ancient enmities
forgotten, they backed him heavily, and
rejoiced with him over his successes that
day.
THE BOLTER COMES HOME
“A Brisbane bookmaker has received £lO
from an anonymous donor as ‘conscience-
money.’ ”
Who bilks the Treasury of its proper due
By cooking-up his income-tax return,
Upon his awful sin will often chew,
And in the fires of conscience he will
burn.
Of innocent, peaceful slumber sore bereft,
He’ll toss and turn, a sight to deeply
sadden,
Till what he comes to deem a virtual
theft
So stabs him that there’s only one thing
left
For him : secretly send the dough to
Fadden.
From clandestinely-made acknowledg-
ment
(In cash ) of past remissness kirks have
gained;
While to a Sydney brewery once was sent
A hundred quid from one who thought
it stained.
But here’s a very different-colored horse :
A member of the hardy fielding junta
Who had no need to yell odds on the
course
To rake ten fiddlies in; the untapped
source,
The rara avis—a repentant punter!
Pray don’t conclude that he’d been over-
paid
A bet, and was too shy to hand it back
In person. It could be that he had made
Resolve to punt no more. Then on the
rack
Of conscience he was torn, this thought
to nag:
A once-rich member of the short-odds
gentry
Might find it hard-put still to run his Jag.
Now that he’d not be there to fill his bag.
And so he sent ten “flags” to swell the
swag.
Recording Angel—put in red this
entry !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


CONRAD CENTENARY
By T. A. MILES
twenty-five years or more there
I—l has lain, on the eastern bank of the
JL River Derwent, seven miles above
Hobart, the hull of what was once
a very handsome sailing-ship—the barque
Otago —famous in nautical history as the
first, and in fact the only, command of
Joseph Conrad.
The Otago was an Australian-owned
barque. —her home port was Adelaide —
but a search of maritime records in that
port for 1887, the year Conrad took over
command, would not reveal the name
of Joseph Conrad as master. During the
whole of his seafaring career he bore
the Polish name Korzeniowski, to which
he was born 100 years ago, on December
7, 1857. His full name was Josef Teodor
Konrad Nalecz Korzeniowski.
It was only after he had left the sea,
in 1893, and had become a writer, that
he adopted the shortened version, Joseph
Conrad, as his pen-name. The headstone
over his grave at Canterbury, in Kent,
where he died in August, 1924, bears his
Polish name Korzeniowski.
Left an orphan at 11 years of age, his
parents having died alter privations
endured through banishment to a distant
part of Russia for alleged participation
in an insurrection in 1863, Conrad was
cared for by an unde on his mother’s
side until he was old enough to make his
own way in the world. At the age of
16, before he had ever seen the sea, he
had decided for himself to make the sea
his career. His relatives made a concerted
effort to dissuade him, but in October,
1874, he left Cracow, where he had been
living, for Marseilles, from which port
his sea career began, with voyages to the
West Indies in various sailing-vessels
belonging to a banker friend of his
relatives.
After serving in sailing-ships for some
years he joined the English steamer
Mavis at Marseilles, and it was from this
ship that, at Lowestoft, on June 18, 1878,
he first set foot on English soil. He was
young and alone, knew scarcely any
English, and had no friend ashore.
On July 11, 1878, he returned to sail,
always his real love. He signed-on in
the coastal barquentine Skimmer of the
Seas, trading between Lowestoft and
Newcastle-on-Tyne. In a little over two
months he made several trips between
these places, and his English, which he
was learning the hard way, improved
daily. He read, he studied navigation and
he liked his fellow-seamen.
The coast trade was, however, a school
and not a profession. Conrad intended
to see the world at large. He read an
advertisement in the “Standard” news-
paper, from which he was acquiring
written English, of a firm of shipping-
agents in London, wrote to the firm his
first letter in English, and followed it up
a few days later by a visit in person to
their offices in London.
“No explorer could have been more
lonely,” he wrote of this journey in later
years. “I did not know a single soul of
all these millions around me.” It led
to what he was seeking, a berth as an.
able-seaman in an ocean-going sailing-
ship—the Duke of Sutherland, on a
voyage to Australia and back to London.
And so he made his first acquaintance
with Australia, in 1879. Apart from the
nautical knowledge he gained on the
voyage, his knowledge of English
increased so fast that he had already
decided on taking an examination for a
second-mate’s certificate, although it was
only 18 months since he had begun to
learn the language. Conrad continued to
study for a while longer, and in June,
1880, in London, he duly passed the
examination.
A little over two months later he
received an appointment as third-officer
in one of the ships of the famous Loch
CONRAD.
as David Low saw him in 1923.
Line, the Loch Etive, a sailing-ship of
1200 tons. Conrad was not only the
youngest officer aboard ; he had addi-
tional responsibility thrown on him by
the illness of the second-mate. The Loch
Etive reached Sydney in November,
1880, and left again early in December
for London, by way of Cape Horn. She
reached London in April, 1881, when
Conrad left her.
On September 21, 1881, he embarked
on the adventure which he afterwards
took as the basis for his well-known story
“Youth.” He sailed as second-mate of
the small barque Palestine, with a cargo
of 500 tons of coal, bound for Bangkok,
Siam. After many delays, putting in
to ports to repair leaks, the vessel
eventually reached the Indian Ocean and
turned north towards Java Head. On
March 11 the cargo of coal was found to
be on fire. On the 13th the decks blew
up and the vessel was abandoned. Then
followed the boat voyage which inspired
the last pages of “Youth.” Finally, at
Singapore, Conrad had his first sight of
that Eastern world which he was to make
so particularly his own.
He returned to England as a passenger,
and in July, 1883, passed his examina-
tion for first-mate. Shortly afterwards
he sailed as mate of the sailing-ship
Riversdale, bound for Madras. Disagree-
ing with the captain, he left and went to
Bombay in search of employment, and
there, in April, 1884, he joined the
Narcissus, of 1300 tons, and sailed for
Dunkirk. The vessel will always be
famous in Conrad annals, for the ship,
and her men, served as the material for
one of Conrad’s best stories, “The Nigger
of the Narcissus.”
In April, 1884, he left Hull as second-
mate of the 1500-ton sailing-ship Tulk-
hurst, bound for Cardiff and then Singa-
pore. He did the round trip in this ship
and was discharged at Dundee on June
17, 1886.
On August 19 that same year Joseph
Conrad Korzeniowski, “subject of the
Russian Empire, of the age of twenty-
nine, unmarried,” obtained a certificate
of British naturalisation. Three months
later he obtained his “certificate of
competency as master” in the British
mercantile marine. It will be noted that,
on his naturalisation, he Anglicised two
of his Christian-names, “Joseph Conrad,”
but retained his Polish surname.
Now with an official country, recog-
nised professional status and compre-
hensive experience of his chosen life, on
February 16, 1887, he took a post as
first-mate of the Highland Forest, load-
ing at Amsterdam for Samarang, in
Java. It was from the master of this
ship that he evolved the character of
John McWhirr, hero of the story
“Typhoon.” Towards the end of the
voyage Conrad was struck in the back
(<Continued on page 65)


POLITICAL POINTS
Now that Clyde Cameron has accused
Bill Wentworth of being a possible Com-
munist agent he may be expected at any
moment to confess that he himself is an
undercover man for American oil
interests and that Eddie Ward is in the
pay of the private banks,
• •
It had been assumed that there would
be five candidates in the field for the
Wagga by-election, but until nomination-
day no one guessed there’d be seven.
A.L.P., D.L.P., Liberals and Country-
party have each put-up a candidate and
there are three Independents. One of
these, A. L. Cook, was president of the
Wagga branch of the A.L.P. until his
nomination, which automatically expelled
him from the party.
Cook’s action was a sequel to the
selection as Labor candidate of Dudley
Graham, nephew of the late member.
He protested that Graham was ineligible
for selection as he was not a member of
the party as late as a fortnight ago, and
party rules required a membership of
three years. The reply of the A.L.P.
executive is that the rules provide that
this does not apply where only one
nomination is received. They claim that
other nominees withdrew in favor of
Graham. Cook maintains that he didn’t
withdraw.
The seven aspirants for the seat are:
A. L. Cook (Ind.), W. Fife (Lib.), D.
Graham (Lab.), H. J. Kennedy (D.L.P.),
W. Lampe (C.P.), G. O’Donoghue (Ind.)
and J. Skeers (Ind.). The three Indepen-
dents are working as a team, with one
campaign-director. Presumably they
don’t consider this weakens their inde-
pendence at air They have already
alleged that offers have been made to
buy their preference-votes. Whether this
is so or not there’s no doubt that the
battle of the preferences will be in full
swing right up until December 14.
• •
Appearing for the Taxation Commis-
sioner in High Court proceedings on the
admissibility of fares to and from wor-k
as a deduction for income-tax purposes
Barwick, Q.C., pleaded that this was a
private expense not dictated by the tax-
payer’s employment, but by where he
chose to live. That may have been a good
argument when taxpayers were free to
choose where they would live. Nowadays
most people live wherever they can get a
house ; choice scarcely enters into it.
• •
Victoria’s new housing agreement with
the Commonwealth has enabled Bolte to
announce, with pardonable complacency,
that his State’s best Housing Commission
tenants will be permitted to buy houses
on a deposit as low as £lOO.
Some of the commission’s better tenants
are in dwellings they don’t like and Bolte
proposes to permit them to transfer to
houses they do like. His sound idea of a
good tenant is one who has been in occu-
pation for three years and has always
paid the rent.
Housing-costs in Victoria are falling,
and enterprising private companies are in
strong competition with low deposits ; so,
taking into account the substantial Com-
monwealth assistance, the £lOO deposit
is both commendable and understandable.
• •
Bulganin has warned Turkey that
Russia may be forced to adopt measures
“to maintain peace and calm in the
Middle East.” No indication was given
as to the nature of the possible measures,
but judging by earlier Kremlin threats the
Turks were probably intended to assume
that they would not be dissimilar from
the measures adopted by the Soviet a year
ago “to maintain peace and calm” in
Hungary.
• •
“Terry the Tory”: Concord Municipal
Council is circularising all councils
served by the Sydney Water Board, seek-
ing support in a request, to the N.S.W.
Government that it ask the Common-
wealth Government to provide a £6-
million per annum grant to the Sydney
Water Board, for the purpose of reducing
the interest and sinking-fund debt of that
authority. It had already made a similar
suggestion to Premier Cahill, receiving the
reply that “There is no likelihood of the
Commonwealth Government agreeing to
single-out the Sydney Water Board for
treatment on any different basis from
that applying to the hundreds of other
local and semi-government bodies
throughout Australia.”
Concord Council should have had the
sense to realise this. Even if Cahill had
approved their proposal he could
scarcely support it at present when he
is trying to cadge a grant of £5 million
from Canberra to subsidise wheat-
imports from Westralia.
• •
The fake nature of Labor’s outcry over
the Banking Bills was nowhere better
illustrated than in debate on the Reserve
Bank Bill. Member after member shed
crocodile’s tears over the naming of the
bank, claiming that the name “Common-
wealth Bank” should have been preserved
and that “the people’s bank” had been
sacrificed.
Paul Hasluck pointed out that the full
name was the Reserve Bank of Australia ;
that the word Commonwealth had been
retained in the titles of the three banks
which deal directly with the public, and he
asked what name other than Reserve
Bank or Central Bank could be given to
an institution performing exclusively
central-banking functions and which was
for that reason a bankers’ bank.
This brought from Clyde Cameron the
most ridiculous tirade of the debate:
The Leader of the Opposition has at last
forced a Minister to admit that the Reserve
Bank is now a bankers’ bank. The Opposition
has been saying for the last fortnight
that it is no longer a people’s bank; it is a
bankers’ bank. That is the Opposition’s
objection to this bill, and that is why we
oppose it —because the Reserve Bank will
operate in the interests of the bankers rather
than in the interests of the people.
• •
At its first State conference the
Queensland Labor party passed a resolu-
tion recording its rejection of any form
of amalgamation or coalition with the
A.L.P. or any other political party, and
stating that no member was authorised
to make or receive overtures to that end.
However, the party’s executive was in-
structed to study the constitution and
policies of parties holding similar political
principles to those of the Q.L.P., with a
view to liaison on matters of a Federal
nature. This part of the resolution obvi-
ously refers to the D.L.P.
• •
“The Sun” and “Crowd” —the darker
side of “The Sydney Morning Herald.”
• . •
A.L.P. and Q.L.P. members of the
Queensland Parliament momentarily
ceased abusing each other last week to
join forces in attacking the Nicklin Gov-
ernment for what one of them described
as “the most reactionary legislation ever
to come before this Parliament.” The
contentious bill was one to amend the
Landlord and Tenant Act in order,
Minister for Justice Munro claims, to
restore some measure of justice to those
most harshly affected by the old legis-
lation.
Under the amendment, which took
effect from Sunday, houses and business
premises let for the first time or which
have not been let at any time in the past
three years will be excluded from rent-
control. It is hoped that this will mean
the letting of many places now empty or
not fully occupied. It is hard to see how
it can cause hardship to anyone, as it does
not affect any houses at present let.
Another provision, to take effect
from March 1, 1958, alters the basic
valuation-date for rental purposes from
February 10, 1942, to July 1, 1948. This
is a change long overdue. Despite the
vote-catching protests of Labor members,
what they call rent-justice has been rent-
injustice to the owners of thousands of
Queensland homes. Rents have been
more severely pegged in Queensland than
in any other -State. Since the end of the
war the rent-index for the whole of Aus-
tralia has risen by 40 per cent., but in
Queensland the rise has been only 25 per
cent. This is surely part of the explana-
tion why Queensland, with a far larger
population than Westralia or South Aus-
tralia, has built fewer houses than either
of them in the last three years.


President Eisenhower has been con-
yalescing at his Gettysburg address.
• •
After eight years New Zealand gets a
change of Government as a result of
Saturday’s general election. Keith Holy-
oake’s National party went to the polls
with 45 seats; Labor, led by Walter
Nash, held 35. At the weekend Labor
looked like winning 41 seats and the
National party 38. Polling will be held
later for one seat, Clutha, where the
Labor candidate died last week. Although
there were many votes still to be
counted, Prime Minister Holyoake
conceded the victory to Labor on
Saturday night.
It was predicted here a few weeks
ago that Labor’s election-offer to rebate
the first £lOO of every income-tax assess-
ment might prove too tempting a bait for
the swinging voter. Nash didn't attempt
to disguise the bribe. His approach was
direct: “Return a Labor Government and
most of you can tear up your income-tax
demand and use the money you have
set aside for income-tax payment as a
Christmas benefit for the family.”
It looks as if New Zealanders will be
having a spending boom this Christmas.
The reckoning will come later.
• •
The N.Z. Social Crediters, who again
contested every seat, didn’t win one, and
their vote was everywhere down consider-
ably on the 1954 figures. In the matter
of election-bribes they were somewhat
handicapped. A promise of credit is
one thing ; hard cash quite another.
• •
Subject to the payment of extra
wages to operatives, Sydney bread-
manufacturers will now be able to begin
baking an hour earlier (two hours-earlier
on Fridays). Bakers have been pressing
for this change for a long time and they
hope the earlier start will mean a better
loaf as the bread will have more time to
cool before it is loaded on the delivery-
carts.
it’s to be hoped they're right. With
bread up tuppence a loaf through the
necessity to import wheat into N. S.
Wales, consumers are entitled to expect
something better than dough for their
dough.
• •
There seems to be more than a modi-
cum of window-dressing about the offer
of the D.L.P. to exchange Wagga pre-
ferences with the Liberals or Country-
party —both have been approached—if
either will agree to four proposals. These
are: court control of trade-union ballots ;
referendum on new States ; guarantee of
95 per cent, of home-building loans ; a
royal commission on drive-in theatre
licences. The first three items are already
on the platform of the Liberal-party. The
Country-party has always been a new-
State party and would find no difficulty in
subscribing to the first and third points.
Both parties have opposed the Cahill
policy on drive-in theatres.
For all that, neither party should agree
to the proposed horse-deal. If the Opposi-
tion parties are ever to form a Govern-
ment it can only be as a coalition. In the
Wagga by-election it would be ridiculous
for them to follow any other course than
an exchange o| second-preferences.
The D.L.P. has already announced its
intention of putting the official Labor
candidate last on their card. This means
that no matter how their other preferences
go one or other of the Opposition candi-
dates must ultimately benefit —unless there
is an unexpectedly heavy vote for one
of the Independents.
• •
After a few months’ shooting-war
between drivers and attendants in Mel-
bourne “little” streets, the City Council
has hoisted the white flag and
announced it will put in meters and signs.
Drivers have been ignoring fines and
continuing to deliver and collect, leaving
their cars at the forbidden kerbs. Of
course, the council likes customers, too.
• •
When the Commonwealth took over the
post and telegraph services of the States
officers of the old departments retained
certain of their privileges. In South Aus-
tralia these included exemption from the
retire - at - 65 rule. This week the
last man to retain the privilege retires at
his own request. He is T. P. Jackson, dis-
trict postal-inspector at Kadina. He is
stepping-down at 80, after 66 years in the
service.
• •
It came as a surprise to many to learn
that nearly two-thirds of the post-war
private investment from overseas —£600
million—had been provided by United
Kingdom interests. Parliamentary critics
among Government supporters, who have
been most vocal against the lack of
developmental capital, were momentarily
silenced by Trade Minister McEwen’s
announcement. Moreover, much of the
post-war British investment has been in
manufacturing, not in such traditional
fields as mining and insurance.
Substantial contributions have been
made by British capital in the fields of
heavy industrial equipment, electrical
engineering, automobiles and automotive
parts, chemicals, metals, paper and
textiles.
In the past two years there have been
more than a dozen examples of million-
or multi-million pound manufacturing
projects either completed or put in hand
by British interests or their associates.
The flow of funds from abroad has pro-
vided most of the extra capital without
which Australia would have had difficulty
in maintaining its rate of national
development over the past decade.
• •
% From Canberra :
The most heartening development in Canberra
over recent months was the decision of the
Government to grant million over the next
live years to promote the development of the
north-west of Western Australia.
This was the direct outcome of persistent
representations over the years by Parlia-
mentarians of all parties and a visit to Canberra
by an all-party delegation from the West
Australian Parliament.
The representations drew attention to the
special difficulties involved in the development
of the area and, in particular, to the limited
financial resources which the Westralian Govern-
ment had been able to devote to capital works
in this outlying area.
“Speeding up” was the keynote of the Com-
monwealth's offer and, to achieve this, the State
must submit a list of the projects on which it
intends to spend the grant.
As the overall responsibility for the develop-
ment of the area north of the 20th parallel will
rest with (he State, the State Government will
decide the particular works on which the grant
will be expended.
Details of the scheme will be discussed soon
with the Westralian Government and legislation
to authorise the payment of the grant will be
introduced in the next Session of the Federal
Parliament, beginning on February 28.
“No, sonny! When you’re as big as those gentlemen you’ll have
the same privilege.”


PERSONAL ITEMS
Men with the longest memories in Mel-
bourne cannot recall a time when there
was not a Minogue in legal practice, so
it merely seemed the observance of
protocol for John Minogue to be
appointed a Q.C. by the Executive
Council. He has a general practice,
chiefly in common law. Soon after he
was admitted to practice he joined the
infantry and ended nearly seven years’
war as a lieutenant-colonel in Washington
with the Australian Military Mission. He
was mentioned in dispatches during the
Owen Stanleys campaign. Although he
,was president of the Melbourne Univer-
sity Rifles Association last year, he admits
his chief sport* these days, like most of
us, is compulsory—pushing a lawnmower
for hours.
• •
Brigadier Charles Hartley Wilson, E.D.,
formerly commander of sth Army Group
Royal Artillery (1954-56), is a partner in
Tully and Wilson, Brisbane solicitors,
and a son of Brigadier Lachlan Chisholm
Wilson. Born at Townsville in 1904,
educated at Toowoomba Grammar and
Brisbane Boys’ College, Charles Wilson
saw service with the 2nd Anti-Tank in
War II as a major, was promoted to
Lieut.-Colonel, and later was stationed in
the Northern Territory. Active in Legacy,
CHARLES WILSON
he’s also on the committees of the United
Service Club and the Royal Queensland
Golf Club.
• •
New Zealand must take some small
praise or blame for the Russian sputniks.
Piotr Kapitza, the Soviet scientist to
whom is attributed most of the
credit for sending the satellites on
their way, owes much of his
skill and enthusiasm for science to
that eminent New Zealander Lord
Rutherford. A fugitive from the Com-
munists, Kapitza arrived poverty-stricken
in London in 1921 —he was the son of a
Tsarist general and the family’s property
had been confiscated. His scientific know-
ledge enabled him to win an industrial
scholarship which paved the way to Cam-
bridge, where he came under the notice
of Rutherford, who made him his assis-
tant at the Cavendish Laboratory. He
witnessed the splitting of the atom by the
Enzedder and always referred to him as
his “Father in Science.” He returned to
Moscow for a holiday in 1934 and it is
believed the Russians, knowing his value
as a scientist, refused him a permit to
leave,
.. • •
The ninth and last Chair to be filled
in the medical school of the Westralian
University will be occupied next March,
when 38-year-old William R. MacDonald
becomes Professor of Child Health. A
graduate of Melbourne, he took his
M. 8., B.S. there in 1942 and his M.D. in
1950. In the same year, he was admitted
M.R.A.C.P. Four years later he was
awarded a Nuffield Dominion Travelling
Fellowship, which he took out at St.
Mary’s Hospital, London, where he is now
lecturing in his speciality. He served as an
M.O. with the R.A.A.F. from 1943 to
1945, and will combine the new professor-
ship with the office of Consulting Director
in Child Health to the Westralian
Department of Public Health.
• ’ •
“0.W.W.”: Notched 90 in Carterton
(N.Z.), Gordon Hughan, the man who
introduced the first Ford cars to the N.Z.
public, way back before the Kaiser’s war.
He is the second-oldest Ford agent in the
world, and is still active at his favorite
pastime, bowls.
• •
Appointed Perth City Librarian —and
first to hold the job—4s-year-old William
Frederick Chape has already had a mort
of library experience in three continents.
Born in England, he held a number of
library posts in the United Kingdom
between 1930 and 1955, established a
British library and information centre in
Buenos Aires, and library services
throughout Jamaica. At present on the
staff of the W.A. Library Board, he
served as an operational pilot with the
R.A.F. during War 11, and was wearing
Squadron-Leader’s rings when the bowlers
were issued.
• •
Passed on in Sydney recently, Father
Richard Murphy, S.J., a quiet man whose
unassuming manner masked brilliant
intellectual gifts. An Irishman, a priest
for over 64 years, he spent the best part
of half a century in Australia. He had a
tremendous influence on a great many
people, mainly, but not exclusively,
Catholic professional men. As early as
1924 he discussed with Dr. Paddy Moran
the formation of a Catholic Medical
Guild, and this, and other organisations
of a sinrilar kind, was formed mainly
under his leadership.
He lectured a good deal, and wrote
books, and in earlier years taught a
FATHER RICHARD MURPHY
number of boys who became famous in
diverse walks of life—Archbishop Eris
O'Brien, for instance, and actor Cyril
Ritchard. In later life, in association
with S. J. Minogue, the Macquarie Street
psychiatrist, he was one of the founders
•of Alcoholics Anonymous. Actress Lilian
Roth, in her book I’ll Cry Tomorrow,
acknowledged his help—an acknowledg-
ment which could be echoed by many
Australians, of all faiths.
• •
“Maitri”: N.Z. author Guthrie Wilson,
43 (now senior Latin-master at a Sydney
G.P.S.), has five successful novels to his
credit and another on the way. Brave Company
(Putnam’s) went through five printings in
England within the first three months and has
sold over half-a-million copies in Corgi paper-
backs: it’s. Corgi’s best-selier to date. Hale's
pre-publication printing of Julien Ware, which
sold well in the U.S. and better in Britain,
was 17,500. In Wilson's opinion Sweet White
Wine is his best novel, although it has
shown the poorest sale-figures. Written in the
first-person, the narrator was identified with the
author by an N.Z. paper. He sued, won his
case, and collected £l5OO damages ; so, if he
lost on the swings, he didn't do so badly on the
roundabouts.
He’s working on the sixth novel, Dear
Miranda, at present. It’s a lighter piece of
work with a Sydney setting, and told in the first-
person feminine. In this case it should be
difficult to confuse Wilson with the narrator,
but who knows? He thinks someone may jump
to the conclusion that Miranda is actually the
author lurking incognito in a girdle! A couple
of his books have had translation-rights sold
to France and Germany and a third has been
done in Braille.
There’s strong stuff in several of the books
which isn’t everybody’s poison: madness,


degeneration, violence, make The Feared
and the Fearless a controversial work,
while the theme of Strip Jack Naked is man in
conflict with his own nature (and who isn’t?).
Wilson regards the novel as the principal
literary art-form of the 20th-century, and
deplores the current preoccupation of public
taste with the adventure-story. He’s a serious
writer : writes with sincerity and realism ; thinks
a lot, so that his books are not just dashed-
off, but are put together slowly (in longhand)
and are rewritten and revised considerably. In
addition to his writing and schoolmastering, he
has given numerous literary talks for the N.Z.
Broadcasting Service, and now reviews in the
Sunday-morning “Today’s Books” session from
2BL, Sydney.
Married, with three children, Wilson was
educated at Palmerston North (N.Z.) Boys High
School and at Victoria University College,
Wellington, where he took his M.A. with tirst-
class classical honors and was Rhodes Scholar
nominee in 1936. A Rugby Blue (you’ve only
to look at him to recognise the footballer) he
played for his province. He has been a master
in English, History and Latin in several
secondary schools, served with the N.Z. 25th
Battalion in the Middle East, was commissioned
in the field, twice wounded, was awarded the
Military Cross, and was a prisoner-of-war. To
quote his own words when I dug all this infor-
mation out of him, “That’s about enough of
Wilson.”
• *
“M.E.H.”: The rivalry of Dick Arnst
and Billy Webb for the world’s sculling
championship years ago interested an-
other New Zealander, Pat Hannon, in
that sport. In 1924 Hannon (who lately
passed on at Picton, N.Z., at 73) won the
world title at Tauranga (N.Z.) from
Darcy Hadfield (another Maorilander),
to whom Jim Paddon. had handed it
when he gave up. Pat Hannon paddled
home in that race a dozen lengths in front.
Although late starting in sculling—he was
then 26 —he put up a good showing in
winning the N.Z. professional title six
times and the Australian title four times.
He handed in the New Zealand pro-
fessional title at the age of 44. In
Hitler’s war he was physical-instructor at
Air Force and Army training-camps in
the province of Marlborough (N.Z.).
• •
Charles Gullan McGrath is the recently
appointed chairman of Repco, the big
parts-manufacturing company for the
motor industry. He’s 47 —one of the
youngest bosses of a big show in the
country. Repco has a young board of
five. McGrath joined Repco’s fore-
runner, Replacement Parts, as a boy-on-
a-bike 29 years ago, and grew up with the
firm, doing most executive jobs. He was
Tasmanian manager in Launceston,
joined the board in 1948, and became
managing-director in 1953 ; he's still m.-d.
An energetic fellow, he now plays more
golf than the tennis at which he played
a good game but at which—unlike chair-
manships—he is no longer young.
• •
Lionel Hogg, who won the first-prize
of £5OO in the Walkley (Ampol) Award
for Journalism, is a big, amiable, forth-
right reporter whose training was chiefly
in Queensland, although he has lately
put in a spell in Darwin and is currently
a member of the Melbourne “Herald”
staff in the U.S. on an exchange
Fellowship; He spent many weeks on
gathering the material for the winning
story, which told how Nina Paranyuk
escaped from a Russian ship and was
hidden by Ukrainian friends in Victoria.
The time he devoted to the dramatic yarn
explains partly its absorbing quality and
why it was so very much better than the
average Australian news-story, which is,
so often, far below London and New
York reporting. It is only a mild exagger-
ation of the modern Australian news-
paper-editor to say he dumps a reporter
in, perhaps, Rangoon at midday and
expects an expert summary on the
political lowdown that night.
• •
If any prospective migrant to Australia
in the last few years had asked about the
prospects of opening another professional
theatre in Sydney and running it success-
fully, he would probably have been told
that there was more future in selling
saveloys in the Sahara. That, however,
is just what William Orr has done —
launched a successful theatre, not sold
saveloys. A quiet-spoken Scot (from
Glasgow) who had worked with the Old
Vic, the Mercury and various repertory
groups before he came to Australia in
WILLIAM ORR
1950 for a holiday, he remained here to
produce “Sleep of Prisoners,” “Let's
Make an Opera,” “The Miser” and then,
at the little Metropolitan Theatre under
the shadow- of Sydney’s Central Railway,
two intimate reviews, “Merry-go-round”
and “Maid in Egypt,” which were smart,
topical, extremely funny and, of course,
very successful. With evidence that
Sydney could provide audiences for this
kind of sophisticated entertainment, Orr
obtained the lease of the Phillip-street
Theatre and has never really looked back
—reviews such as “Top of the Bill,”
“Around the Loop” and, currently,
“Cross Section” have all deservedly been
long-run and house-full shows. Orr
formed his venture into a non-profit-
making co-operative society which
ploughs all the profits back into the busi-
ness and permits the production of such
delightful children’s shows as “Alice in
Wonderland” and the current “Willow
Pattern Plate.”
• •
“A.J.S.”: Cecil Geoffrey Friend, retir-
ing Director of Postal Services in Wes-
tralia, has seen 50 years’ service
with the P.M.G. Department -educated
at Sydney’s Fort Street School, he
joined the Commonwealth service in
N. S. Wales when he was 15 and spent
the next two years as a telegraph-messen-
ger pushing a bike around Sydney’s
streets. At 17 he became telephonist
on the old manual exchange and from
then on made telephones his main in-
terest. He was Assistant Superintendent
Telephones (W.A.), superintendent in
Sydney, and Director of Postal Services
in Tasmania before returning to the West
eight years ago as director. He was with
4th Div. Sigs. in World War I.
William Alroe Halvorsen, who takes
over from Friend as the new director, is
a Westralian who has spent all his official
career in his home State. Appointed
District Inspector at Kalgoorlie in the
1930’s he became very familiar with the
goldfields before moving down to the
tall timber, orchards and potato-growers
around Bunbury. Shortly after World
War II he transferred to Perth and
became Superintendent of Postal Ser-
vices ; he was the man behind the postal
organisation for the Queen’s visit in
1954, and was appointed Assistant
Director in 1955. Born in Geraldton,
Halvorsen is another World War I
Digger—he was with Westralia’s 51st Bn.
until the heroic fighting at Mouquet Farm
on September 3, 1916. Only three of
the 51st’s officers engaged in that action
survived —two returned wounded and
Halvorsen, badly hit, tried to reach the
Australian lines but was again wounded
and captured, to spend two-and-a-half
years in the bag.
• •
Dr. Elizabeth Neige Todhunter, who
hails originally from Christchurch (N.Z.)
and has been Dean of the School
of Home Economics at the Univer-
sity of Alabama (U.S.A.) since 1941,
has now become president of the
American Dietetic Association. She
received her Ph.D. at Columbia Uni-
versity, did nutrition-research and taught
that science at the School of Economics
at Washington State College, Pullman,
where she became Professor of Nutrition.
The N.Z. Dietetic Association made her
an honorary life-member in 1956.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 74, John William Cameron,
director and former general-manager of Anthony
Hordern’s, Sydney. Served with the 55th and
34th Battalions in War I.
In Brisbane, at 72, Arthur Olson, former
manager of the Bank of Australasia (now
A.N.Z. Bank), southern branch, Sydney.
In Melbourne, Lady Leitch, widow of Sir
Walter Leitch, controller of munitions in
World War I. She was one of the first women
graduates in medicine from Melbourne Uni-
versity ; later a tireless charity-worker.
In Sydney, at 75, A. H. O’Connor, former
N.S.W. Crown Solicitor. He was a son of the
late Mr. Justice R. E. O’Connor, an original
member of the High Court Bench.
At Lake Victoria station (S.A.), at 69,
Donald Alexander McLennan, well-known
S.A. pastoralist. Inventor of the McLennan
sandscreen, used in sub-artesian bores.
In Sydney, at 54, Philip Arthur Warburton,
chairman and managing-director of Warburton,
Franki, Ltd.
In Melbourne, at 57, Rev. John Curtis, a
former president of the Victorian Baptist Union.


e
WsA
sfsdf
T tt „ _. _ „ . , „« • r
HE Big FeUow-apart from his
Horse years-has been knock rag
around the cattle-country since about the
time Comedy King won the up.
thought he had seen everything. 1
thought so myself,” he told me, “until I
ran into a station-reared, half-caste
attacking a broken-down truck with a
double-handful of spanners while a full-
blooded abo. with a six-inch cigarette-
holder read him out the trouble-chart
from the instruction-manual. It looks as
if us old fellows are going to see a lot
of changes before we break our hobbles! ”
—“Retired Bagman.”
* * * *
“Kelms”: According to a U.S. spokes-
man, Uncle Sam’s space-missile cap,
which was retrieved intact, could glow
like a falling star, think for itself, expel
a parachute to slow it down, toss out a
balloon and inflate it, eject and explode
bombs, turn itself into a radio-
broadcasting station, light a flashing
beacon, mark its landing-spot in the
Atlantic Ocean and spread a shark-
repellent. It’s the last bit that I find par-
ticularly interesting. Dozens of formulas
were tried-out for repelling sharks during
the war, and mariners and troops were
given glowing reports of their success,
but none ever worked to any extent.
Since then, whaling companies, which
lose heavily from shark attacks on har-
pooned whales, have spent good money
seeking a repellent, and they’ve admitted
failure. If the Yanks really have some-
thing in that line, they’ll find an interested
audience wherever whalers congregate.
* * * *
“Bicky”: They are telling of a public
servant who decided to make a few extra
quid digging potatoes during his annual
holidays in western Victoria. On the
second day the cocky, thinking to give
his back a chance to recover, got him to
grade the murphies he’d dug the first
day: just two categories—big and small.
Staggered by the few he had done at the
end of the day, the cocky chatted him, to
which the p.s. came back with: “Well, I
had an awful lot of decisions to make!”
* * * *
“Wandana”: A symbol of the final
eclipse of the old droving days was the
departure from Adelaide of two 140 ft.
road-trains, only ones of their kind in the
world, on their way to a cattle-station
410 miles north of Alice Springs. Fitted
with supercharged diesel-engines, they will
transport 20,000 cattle over thousands of
miles in the next 12 months, and are
expected to cut stock-losses and at the
same time eliminate weight-loss in the
cattle. Stock which normally take weeks
to move on the hoof will be transported
within a matter of hours. Each road-train
is valued at £40,000, is self-tracking, and
is equipped with hydraulically assisted
steering, with air-brakes throughout. The
man chiefly responsible for the develop-
ment of the train is J. B. Watson, one
of William Angliss’s diesel-engineers,
who has been experimenting with' the
project for about three years.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: The dry spell in N.S.W.
—our belt of it, anyway —is hitting those
little pink trigger-plants (B. 13/11/’57).
They’re much smaller than usual, but
still fair game for any inquisitive young-
ster who has the knack of tickling their
floral tonsils with a fine blade of grass.
Best specimens I’ve seen were growing
on the shady side of Blue Mountain
gullies ; single florets there were like small
violets ; but to see the best show, set off
from Kosciusko and aim for Mt.
Jagungal, the “Big Bogong,” 30 miles
north. Around and beyond Mawson’s
Hut, in mid-January, the triggers will be
knee-deep on your horse for acres at a
stretch—pink waves rippling in the rest-
less winds of those altitudes. Mawson’s
is snugged-in against the roof of Aus-
tralia ;.from a ridge just across the creek
from the Hut you can watch water
gurgling away to the Snowy, to the
Murray, and —via the Tumut —to the
’Bidgee.
* * * *
“Sebak”: Whether Donald Dinnie was
defeated by Shimo, the diminutive jiu-
jitsu expert (B. 6/11/ ’57), in Australia
was not mentioned ; but it could have
been here. It was while barnstorming
through Australia that Shimo, 4ft. 6in.,
agreed to meet Jim Heckenberg, 6ft. 3in.,
17st., strong-man and woodchopping
champion. The bout was staged in the
Parramatta Town Hall. It lasted just two
seconds after the big fellow made his
initial rush. Heckenberg spent the first
second sailing up towards the stage
curtain ; the next passed in the downward
journey. Eyewitnesses still live who are
prepared to swear that the crash which
ended the contest cracked three joists in
the stage floor.
* * * *
THANKS to Hogan and his “Making
of a Reader” (B. 13/11 /’57). It
refreshed one’s pride in having met good
writing, introduced by our parents, in
our home. Our reading had a Biblical
basis —for the Sabbath, for special
occasions and for times of great joy
or sorrow, The Book came out. And
after that, Dickens.
Over the years my dealings with the
Pecksniffs, Tapleys, Scrooges, Heeps,
Wellers, Steerforths and Trotwoods I’ve
known were all the smoother for having
met the originals so early. Bleak
House cast a gloom over the home
for a while ; Dad read longer and faster




to get the thing finished so we could go
back to Pickwick.
Then another shadow followed; bad
seasons, little local work, and Dad went
away to toil on a new railway-line they
were building to a place called Won-
thaggi. Mum and I—the eldest, but
young enough—managed the little farm
then ; and the reading was mostly Bible
—and Bobbie Burns. There was com-
fort in it, then and since; and it taught
me to discard waste words, equipped me
for the full enjoyment of Billy Hughes’s
speeches later on, and gave me a life-
long supply of ammunition for sniping
at the rigidly righteous when perched too
precariously on pedestals.
Dad came back with a new member
of the family—Steele Rudd. What a
Welcome awaited them both! Reading
neighbors came over, and when we
nippers were finally sent to bed we
listened as long as we could and chuckled
ourselves to sleep. Good foundations ;
find none of them gained by the flicking
of a switch ... But excuse me; old
Churchill’s latest has just arrived.
Billy T.
“Pigskin Bagman”: “Simon” (B.
2/10/’57) doesn’t know his bullocky or
his teams as well as Gill did. The
extremes to which the timber-haulers of
the N.S.W. north coast would go to
match pairs was exceeded only by the
orgy of buying, culling, swapping and
so on that started when a fully-matched
team appeared possible. Then prices
exorbitant for the day were asked and
paid. Whether, as older oldsters averred,
this interfered seriously with the working
efficiency of the teams I don't know. But
I do know that on one glorious day in
Macksville we kids lined the fences to
hooray and yell at a bolting team which
was shifting enough fencing in its mad
career to almost straighten out Bent
Street. That team was a set of 20
Devons beautifully matched in their
ruby-red hides, neat curving horns, and
in general conformity.
“Arjay”: Conclave of farmers from
the Bauple (Q.) district discussed the pros
and cons of the Regional Electricity
Board’s extending electricity from the
Howard power-house to outlying farms.
A substantial guarantee was required in
each case. Up spake a hOary ancient.
“Don’t you pay ’em anything!” he
advised. “Sit tight for a few months and
you’ll get power laid on for nothing.
That Howard mob has so much elec-
tricity stored at the power-house they’ll
be glad to give it away soon.”
* * * *
“E.D.T.”: Two uncles of mine who
own and work a little goldmine in
Victoria invited me, their niece, to spend
a holiday with them. I put in the
spare time of the first two days
straightening-up their bachelor cottage.
Then I turned my attention to the
hut near the shaft which served
as a combination tool-shed and office.
After sweeping and dusting I filed
all the correspondence neatly, brought
the books up to date, and waited
to receive the same praise as I
had for fixing up the house. But when
they emerged from the shaft that evening
they hit the roof, then began to search
the patch of grass where I’d dumped the
rubbish. Every now and then one of
them would pick up a chip of rock and
drop it into a tin. That evening, when
they had simmered down, they explained
what was meant by the term “specimen
stone,” and told me I’d thrown out bits
°f fl uartz which, while not showing gold
visible to the naked eye, nevertheless
COnt u l 2„ d sufficient of the stuff used ia
tooth-fillings and wedding-rings to be
Wor,h about £2oo '
* * * *
“C.A.A.”: Farmers oft Eyre’s Penin-
sula (S.A.) have had their crops saved
from a plague of cutworms by an in-
vasion of thousands of seagulls. The
worms provided provender for the in-
vaders’ thousands of young on Dutton
Island, but how the gulls knew the pests
were available in plural quantities on the
mainland remains one of Nature’s
mysteries.
* * * *
“Bass”: Been reading of farmers “on
the poverty line” in south-west Africa
who are on the verge of becoming
“millionaires” because lithium-bearing
minerals have been found on their pro-
perties, and I’m wondering what some of
the old-timers from the Coolgardie gold-
field would say if they knew. Lithium is
one of what used to be called rare metals
■—not to be confused with rare earths.
It’s the lightest of all solid elements, but
has the highest specific heat, and it’s
making a name for itself in the atomic
age in such varied uses as special glass-
making, ceramics, dehumidifying air for
air-conditioning, for incorporation in
certain alloys and for acting as a cleans-
ing agent in others. It occurs in minerals
of various forms and colors—lepidolite
(which is violet mica), spodumene (a
green mineral), petalite (which is white),
and amblygonite (pale green); and they
all occur in W.A., often in commercial
quantities. There must have been scores
of old prospectors who tramped out of
the eastern goldfields, broke, after turn-
ing over tons of lepidolite and calling it
useless mica.
LOST BIRD
The perished bird upon the hand
Looks very strange;
This perfect atom out of space
Has weathered more than change.
The quills are folded, delicate,
The plumes compose a sheath ;
From weightlessness to frozen form,
From flight to death,
Unpredictable surprise
Of eerie nature now
Inherent seems within the one
Brought sorrowfully low.
Yesterday, on wild, gold tides
He flew, he swirled.
Yesterday, minute and warm.
Across the sun he whirled.
How could this arid little flake
Belong to that pure world ?
This, in feather chill on bone.
That spirit I would see—
Higher than the royal mast
Of a mountain tree ?
Beautiful adventurer
In a cloudy veil;
Unbelievably unhurt
Out along the gale ;
Rains, the fury-mood of trees,
Perils south and north,
Nothing broke the heart in him,
Ever he went forth.
Speckled prince upon a bough,
Mated with the free ;
When he sang he gave the day
Tender quality.
Close your hand upon the shape *
Emptied utterly.
No more substance, nor the truth
Than the dust could be
Far off, in a lovelier light,
One rejoins the flight.
N.Z.
Paula Hanger Birch.


rpHE hired-man has a house in town,
■*- where he lives at weekends
with his wife, and dog. When
he called to collect his Friday
pay the radio was blaring a very
sugary and drooling love-ditty, to which
he listened with all outward signs of
acute nostalgia laced with violent senti-
mentality. “They played it on me
wedding-night,” he explained as it wailed
to an end. “Takes me back twenty years.
Oh, well” —gathering up cheque and
hat—“l s’pose I’d better be gettin’ home
to see me dawg!”—“Yellow Fire.”
* * * *
“Croweater”: Baker’s delivery-cart
horses lead a humdrum life, but in South
Australia on at least one occasion in the
year they can display themselves in
furbished-up trimmings—John Martin’s
big Christmas pageant through Adelaide
streets. This year there were about 50 of
them, in charge of gaily apparelled
attendants.
• * * *
“Scotty”: Yet another nomenclatural
snare for those who make a “Gnu
Gnu” out of Goonoo Goonoo (B.
27/11 / ’57) is Timbumburi, also near
Tamworth (N.S.W.). They mostly make
it Timbumboory, accenting the first and
third, instead of the second and fourth
syllables. Locals reckon it’s possibly
modesty that puts ’em wrong.
* * * *
“Cygnet”: Aqualung-divers working
on the recovery of cargo from the wreck
of the 440-ton barque Katherine Shearer,
which sank in 1855 in the D’Entrecasteaux
channel (southern Tas.), hope to recover a
quantity of old copper tokens carrying
the inscription “Lewis Abrahams, draper,
Liverpool Street, Hobart Town, 1855.”
One of similar type and inscription has
just been unearthed by Marine Board
workmen at Devonport (northern Tas.)
while excavating to provide a shore-
anchor on the Bass Strait ferry-terminal
site. The token was discovered three or
four feet below ground-level on an area
formerly occupied by White’s Hotel.
Abrahams, a well-known business figure
in Hobart a century ago, is said to have
been a passenger on the Katherine
Shearer. Various Hobart Town firms
issued copper tokens in the old days when
official copper coinage was scarce.
* k- * #
“Erah”: I have a nightly visit from an
owl, which sits on the centre of the rotary
clothes-line and doesn’t give a hoot for
anyone walking round, talking, hosing or
whistling. We can walk up to within
patting-distance before he lazily stretches
his wings and labors across to the house-
roof. As soon as we go inside, he is back
again on the line. He comes soon after
eight-o’clock and is still there at bed-
time. We have tumed-up the radio and
given him a long dose of Parliamentary
broadcasts, but not even this soporific
seems to affect his wakefulness.
A MODEL HORSE
T>ROBABLY the most perfect life-size
A model of a horse in Australia stands
in the doorway of a coach-works in
Russell Street, Toowoomba (Q.). This
almost 17-hands-high model of a British
blood stallion is a perfect example of the
woodcarver’s art, with realistic veins and
sinews and other important features of a
live animal delineated. Women have let
out minor screams, children’s eyes have
popped from their heads, dogs have
barked at it.
This beautiful dapple-grey model,
“Must We bring other people's kids along every time We come out ?”
which has a fine mane and tail, and a
jaw which works to take the bit, won
the title of the best model horse at a
World Fair held in the United Kingdom
early in the century. England wanted the
model for the Festival of Britain and
negotiated for it to be shipped from
Toowoomba to the Thames, but owner
Colin Ferguson would not part with it.
“It’s odds-on that if he’d gone over
there they would have offered me a few
thousand pounds for him, and my Scotch
ancestry would have overcome my senti-
ment,” said Mr. Ferguson, whose father,
Duncan, bought the model in Sydney
early in this century.
During World War I the model,
dressed in the military livery of the Aus-
tralian Light Horse, invited young men
“to fill the saddle” at the Brisbane recruit-
ing centre. The model is usually mounted
on a truck for public processions such as
Toowoomba’s Carnival of Flowers.
The coach-works where the model
lives is probably the only one in Aus-
tralia, which did not desert the horse for
the motor-car. Duncan Ferguson, the
founder, was proud of his work in iron,
and he dearly loved a horse. Hammer
and glowing iron in hand at his anvil,
he would look over his glasses with a
hard eye if anyone interrupted him in
some intricate ironwork for a horse-
vehicle to ask him to make ironwork for
a motor-vehicle. The old-time patient
tradesman to the core, he was more
interested in the job than in the reward.
His son has followed in his footsteps.
The coach-works still have Bill Barlow,
saddler and trimmer, making and repair-
ing saddles and harness ; a trained coach-
builder, Geoff Ernst, still builds horse-
drawn vehicles there, and continues to
re-tyre sulky, cart and wagon wheels,
with the blistering fire of great sheets of
bark in the yards.
It is just as well the tradesmanship has
not been lost. When W. R. Bolton, head
of Cobb and Co., the big motorised carry-
ing company of Toowoomba, wanted old
Cobb and Co. coaches rebuilt for carry-
ing children around show-rings and for
processions he did not have to look out-
side Toowoomba for the man to rebuild
them. Ferguson rebuilt two coaches, and
has rebuilt South African Cape carts,
early intricate wagonettes and phaetons,
and early American and English horse-
vehicles for a vehicular museum Mr.
Bolton has in mind for the city of the
Darling Downs.
Colin Ferguson, who refers to himself
as “the old horse-dealer,” has a dry sense
of humor, and is an innate “spoofer.”
When the first of the rebuilt coaches was
standing in his works’ yard an obviously
new arrival from overseas had asked him
many questions about the model of the
stallion, and then came out to look over
the old coach.
“I didn’t think they still used horse-
coaches in Australia,” said the new
arrival, watching Ferguson as he tested
“
“° h ’ yes ” said Colin ’ “ they use them
from Birdsvil i e to Oodnadatta, where the
S3nd is S 0 thick and fine that motor-trans-
P° rt § et trough. Out there, of
is “'‘ t 0 fiU >
The newchum did not ask how the
h wprp wafprpd ,
horses weie watered.
ERIC BEDFORD.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with tho
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. F.gerton,
Manager for Australia.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
ISA CALLING!
By LEN KING
'T'HERE are instances in
■*- Australia where mines
have petered - out but com-
munities have continued to
prosper because of the produc-
tion of alternative wealth “off
the land.”
But when the Isa mine peters
out, the Isa town will peter,
too.
Yes, the mine people have
been remarkably sure and long-
range in the assessment of
workable ores. So “the Isa” is
likely to continue to flourish
for many a long day, unless and
until jolted by the discovery
of equal, deposits in countries
that could be worked with
cheap, even semi-serf, labor.
Mt. Isa is on the Leichhardt
River at the foot of the Selwyn
Ranges in North-west Queens-
land, 1200 ft. above sea-level.
Six-hundred miles by rail
from Townsville and about a
thousand miles by air from
Brisbane and. Adelaide, it has
a semi-arid climate and, by
Queensland eastern coastal
standards, a small rainfall of
15in.-16in. a year, practically
all of which falls in the
summer.
Prospector John Campbell
Miles is recorded as the original
discoverer of silver-lead ores in
the area., and he named the hill
on which he made his discovery
Mt. Isa after his niece Isabelle.
Following the usual rush of
individual claims, whereof
claimants were gradually
beaten by the obstacles of re-
moteness and limited resources,
leases gradually passed to Mt.
Isa Mines, Ltd., which now
produces more than half of
Australia’s copper and a fifth
of its lead. It is set to produce
this year nearly 50,000 tons of
zinc, 50,000 tons of lead, 25,000
to 30,000 tons of copper and
million ounces of silver, in
their various forms.
The mining co. surely, if
published financial statements
are a criterion, has done a
mighty job for itself and its
shareholders. It has done an
even mightier job for Australia
and Australians.
Employing 3751 at June 30
last, it has accepted the respon-
sibility of providing power for
both mining projects and the
community. It operates a plant
generating 27,500 kilowatts,
and has another one planned
with an output of 30,000 kw. It
has organised the supply of
water, again for the community
as well as the mines. Its reser-
voir at Rifle Creek has a
storage-capacity of 2000-million
gallons from which water is
piped 22 miles to the Isa in
12in.-diameter steel pipeline. A
second reservoir with a capa-
city of 10,000-million gallons is
well on the way, 12 miles down
the Leichhardt River.
To record that the mining
co. has been good to the people
of the Isa in the provision of
amenities is a masterly under-
statement. It has sponsored a
wide and embracing variety of
social and sporting facilities,
at no small expense. A pool of
Olympic standards, a turf-
wicket oval, tennis-courts,
bowling-greens, golf - course,
basketball courts.
Clubs for judo, fencing,
gliding, chess, bowling, table-
tennis, darts and amateur
theatricals. Football of all
codes, cricket and vigoro asso-
ciations flourish, cycling booms
at the velodrome, and there is
a weekly horserace - meeting.
The company has a picture-
theatre where it screens shows
free to its employees and
families nightly. Also, there
are two privately owned, one
a modern drive-in. These show
nightly, too.
Provision thus made, and so
generously, by the mines co.
contrasts with the efforts of
Governments, which largely
are conspicuous by 4heir
absence. Neither as a national
investment nor a Queensland
enterprise, surprisingly, have
Governments yet found it prac-
ticable and prudent to provide
rail or road communications
“ Don't Worry — it's only stage-money !”
seriously approaching the chal-
lenge of the mining company's
effort.
Hustling and vigorous, Mt.
Isa as a town as yet knows
only limited stability. One
senses a bustle after money.
Obviously, some collect in
appreciable quantities: to others
it dangles on the end of the
rainbow. There is an attitude
of “go while the going is good,”
and surely there is evidence of
“what comes easily goes
easily.”
The pity is that the Isa town
is restricted in civic responsi-
bility and the community is
tardy in developing civic pride.
While it cloaks the Cloncurry
shire, of which it is a very
small part in area, with pres-
tige and stature, it probably is
more than the shire ever bar-
gained for. The position of the
baby emu with a foster-mother
hen may pass muster in youth,
but might become a dispropor-
tionate problem in growth.
There being a population of
over 11,000, it is surprising the
community does not seek
gazettal as a city and be the
caretaker of its own destiny.
Oddly enough, many busi-
nessers shy-off such a proposi-
tion lest it might mean an up-
surge in rates and charges for
public facilities,
Probably the best part of
2000 live in barracks, mostly
males. But females attracted
by a possible superabundance
of men at Mt. Isa are likely to
draw a blank. For men there
work hard and save hard not
to take a stake in the ground
and assume responsibilities of
wife and family but to buy a
car. To leave Mt. Isa never
to return?
This turnover in the work-
force poses a terrific problem.
(In 1956-57 turnover was 37.9
p.c., against 49.9 p.c. the year
before.) The mine co. presses
on with the construction of
homes and encourages and
assists building-societies to dis-
pose of homes to approved
employees on attractive condi-
tions. While it probably is dis-
posed to prefer married men in
employment, the yardstick of
its policy necessarily is accom-
modation.
In a property boom, per-
petual leases under the Mining
Act, land in the principal
streets (West, Marian, Miles,
etc.) attracts up to £5O a foot.
Homesite lease-blocks of one
rood are £2OO upwards. A
reasonable house, related to
Mt. Isa standards, constructed
in cavity concrete, would run
into £2700-£3300 (9 to 11
squares). But because of the
acute shortage, a house might
cost a good deal more to buy.
Meat is cheap, but com-
modities from the coast and
south relatively are dear.
Transportation - freights are


.
m
m
* '• %
H
// ip
OF! N
psi ;•<■’!
j&l i| W | U wiUllllllll(lWWliy|W w * \Wx| Pt'Jf
> \U IV
'** |fp '\VS ,M
"bars ws«n«
ONB THOUSAND BRANCHES AND AGENCIES
Stability
within business
In spite of the mixed experience of
business in the past year, the general
tone was that of stability. Progress
continued during the year, but at a
slower pace.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
and
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 30TH SEPTEMBER, 1957
ASSETS £
Coin, Bullion, Notes, and Cash at Bankers - 26,418,473
Money at Short Call—London 4,687,500
Short-dated Treasury Bills—Australia and London 13,068,750
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank of Aus-
tralia - - 83,620,000
Statutory Deposit with Reserve Bank of New Zealand 9,981,633
Government and other Securities 95,102,861
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit 64,315,642
Due by other Banks . - 8,030,116
Loans and Advances to Customers and Local Bills
Discounted
Shares in other Companies ......
Accrued Interest and Sundry Balances ......
Bank Premises - -•— ......
£305,224,975
257,053,461
4,060,875
1,278,942
10,500,000
£578,118,253
LIABILITIES
Issued and Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund - .. - ......
Undistributed Profits ..... -
Deposits, etc .... ...... ...
Botes in Circulation .... ««. .... .....
ue to other Banks .....
£
17,560,000
.... 12,100,000
1,362,056
.... 545,886,174
80,892
1,129,131
£^5,118,253
• DEPOSITS
Total deposit items at September 30 reached
£546,000,000, an increase of £70,000,000.
Of this increase, the Bank of New South
Wales Savings Bank Limited accounted for
£30,000,000.
• ADVANCES
In response to a strict official policy of credit
restraint, loans and advances of the trading
bank fell by £6,000,000. Those of the savings
bank increased by £5,000,000. Total loans
and advances were £257,000,000.
• PROFIT
Net profit for the year was £1,830,000,
equivalent to 6.2% of shareholders’ funds.
• DIVIDENDS
Total dividends for the year ended September
30 were £1,580,000, or 9% of capital.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
Oldest and largest trading bank operating in Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, with
two branches in London and agents and correspondents throughout the world.
A 5757
crazy in pattern. Brisbane-
Townsville (rail, ship), 1000
miles, say £l5 a ton. Towns-
ville-Mt. Isa (rail), 600 miles,
£2B a ton. Alice Springs-Mt.
Isa (road), 800 miles, £l6 a
ton. Bottled beer, sugar, fruit,
conserves, etc., at the Isa are
freighted from Adelaide by
road.
. Allegedly based on “pros-
perity” the miners’ lead-bonus
has dropped from £ll a week
to below £8 with the fall in
metals. All employees of all
employers must needs get an
equivalent of “the bonus.”
Any sort of motor mechanic
earns £2O-£22 a week, and a
really good one as much as
£27, Artisans in the category
of foreman-carpenters, elec-
tricians, plumbers, look for
£35-£4O per week, and get it.
There are three hotels,
Argent, Boyd and Mt. Isa.
Their aggregate beer-sales per
week probably would exceed
those of any three hotels in
any other town in Australia,
While, on the average, Aus-
tralia has a motor-vehicle to
4} people, the Isa has at least
4500, of which over 3500 are
cars. On the one hand, as the
glamor of the Isa boom
spreads, tourists in increasing
numbers are being attracted,
road - travellers mostly via
Alice Springs; on the other,
call it isolation, remoteness,
herd-instinct or what-have-you,
the Isa’s residents cannot get
away quickly enough when
their biannual leave comes
round.
In the meantime, Mt. Isa
pulsates and throbs ahead to
ever bigger things and brighter
horizons with verve and enter-
prise. What a pity some prac-
tical scheme couldn’t be con-
ceived by which all young
Australians could see and
experience first-hand this
terrific example of Australian
enterprise and pioneering!
Railway Finance
Ti/TANY new, arresting figures
on the burden to all the
States of their railway-systems
have been uncovered by the
Institute of Public Affairs of
Victoria —a highly worth-while
study, considering that the


Now Open!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
5i%
LOAN
Government-Guaranteed for 6 Years or more!
THE N.S.W. GOVERNMENT unconditionally guarantees
payment of half-yearly interest, and full repayment of
principal after 6, 10 or 20 years.
TRUSTEE INVESTMENT. The Loan is an Authorised
Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland, Western
Australia and Tasmania.
ALMOST DOUBLE SAVINGS BANK INTEREST can
be credited direct to your bank account every six months.
EXCHANGE-FREE. Your investment, interest and
repayment at maturity are free of exchange in terms of
the Prospectus.
10% DEPOSIT ACCEPTED. If you do not wish to make
a cash investment you may pay 10% on application, and
the balance by 28th February, 1958.
HOW TO INVEST TODAY!
Apply at any branch of—
& Commonwealth Trading Bank;
• Australia and New Zealand Bank
Limited;
G Bank of New South Wales;
® The Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney Limited.
• At the Sydney Water Board Offices;
• Or through a Stockbroker.
<e
The
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
MW 170-57
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JAMES FREDERICK HILTON
LAWS late of 96 Hillcrest Avenue East
Bankstown. —TAKE NOTICE that
GLORIA DAWN LAIDI.AW LAWS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3462 of
1957 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Reg-istry Supreme Court, King Street
Sidney by the 11th February 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from HUNT & HUNT, Solicitors,
of 15 Bligh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
combined losses on the six
systems in 1956-57, with full
depreciation, interest and other
charges, were £33 million, to
which N.S.W. contributed a
robust £9.3 million and Vic-
toria provided £8.2 million.
The institute {“a non-party
organisation supported entirely
by voluntary contributions....
aims at educating the public
in the true facts of our
economic system to bring about
a wider understanding of the
merits of free enterprise”) is,
in fact, very little Right of
centre.
Dealing with its home State,
Victoria, the institute admits
the grave weakness of most
Government-run instrumentali-
ties in often being forced to
abandon accepted business
principles in conducting their
affairs, since their pricing and
costing policies become the
plaything of politics and a too-
ready acceptance of loss
inevitably develops.
Still, the Melbourne suburban
railway-system already is losing
the equivalent of its £ 15-million
investment every four years
and requires immense new sums
for new rolling-stock and other
facilities to cope with the outer-
suburban sprawl. N.S.W. rail-
ways are losing £lO million
yearly on suburban passengers,
and so are most railway-
systems, including the privately-
owned American networks.
The institute says customer-
resistance to an increase in
fares might not be as great as
imagined in some quarters,
because total suburban
passenger - journeys declined
only one per cent, after the
25 p.c. increase in suburban
fares in 1955, and total revenue
from it increased more than
20 p.c.
At this point, of course, the
institute is tackling Victorian
Premier Bolte’s resolve to keep
prices at their present level,
and it would be impolitic for
him to retreat from his stand
unless he also unpegged State
wages to the possibly runaway
cost-of-living increases.
The breakdown of Victorian
operating results for 1955-56
in millions of pounds shows a
profit only on goods-transport
of 0.6; there were losses of
3.5 on suburban passengers,
2.8 on country passengers, 1.0
on livestock and 0.7 on all
other services.
The curtailment of road-
competition would increase
railway revenues by £2 million
a year on inter-State trade and
almost as much on intra-State
traffic, and a considerable part
would be profit, since only 70
p.c. of the capacity of the exist-
ing facilities is being used.
Actual operating costs of
each additional ton of cargo
carried represents only a third
of the total cost ; two-thirds
are taken by interest, deprecia-
tion, signalling, track-mainten-
ance and similar standing-
charges.
Since the Victorian commis-
sioners can make a profit of
£600,000 on goods-transport,
despite the creeping inflation,
the intense road-competition
and the expensive break-of-
gauge at Albury (which it is
hoped will be eliminated in
1959), this field seems the most
hopeful for the department to
develop.
The first success the State
railways have had in the last
three years was the recent High
Court decision upholding Vic-
torian legislation imposing a
mileage road-tax on heavy
motor-trucks. To some extent
this may curtail the activities
of some owner-drivers who
carry at uneconomic rates, but
it can have no real effect on
those carriers who choose to
carry only the more profitable
freights and leave the others for
the railways.
It is true, as the institute
points out, that by keeping
down the cost of living by
avoiding freight and fare rises,
the burden of providing trans-
port at under cost falls upon
the whole community instead of
on railway-users.
Yet it would be difficult to
convince those who have any
first-hand knowledge of the
operation of the railways that
important economies could not
be effected, especially in the
payment of overtime, which is
permitted in Victoria to an
extent that would cripple a
private industry.
Railway deficits are being
financed in Victoria from loan
moneys which should be spent
on hospitals, schools, power
and other services, and, as the
institute points out, with the
probability of further inflation
the difficulties will intensify the
longer the issue is side-stepped.


“Those Water-restrictions are absurd. It's raining cats and dogs !”


LYSAGHT
RURAL PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY
/
I
I
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursts
Michael Kmit
According to most of the
Sydney dailies, Michael Kmit,
holding a farewell exhibition at
the Bissietta gallery before he
goes abroad for a couple of
years, is “among the greatest
living Australian painters”;
According to many practising
artists, whose views one has
heard in conversation, he can’t
paint at all.
The truth, surely, lies some-
where between these extremes.
The Sydney dailies have too
many “greatest living
! winters”: one every week, in
act, if a contemporary is show-
ng, unless he happens to come
from Melbourne, when there is
Something faintly suspicious
about him.
On the other hand, nobody
looking at Kmit’s large “Fisher-
men in the Bay” could reason-
ably deny that he can paint. It
is stylised, certainly ; but very
effectively stylised and, besides
its richness of color and energy
of design, it says as much as
any realistic painting could
say; and maybe more than
most. It brings fresh life to a
very hackneyed subject.
This commentator will never
be brought to see very much in
his mere Byzantine stylisms—
the stained-glass-window effects
—which seem infinitely out-of-
date, nor in his doll-like
“portraits” with their echoes of
Picasso and Modigliani. They
have color, certainly, usually
very rich, sometimes quiet and
restful; they have wit and a
wistful charm; but, whether
deliberately so or not, they are
primitive, childish, elementary.
Most of their virtues can also
be found in dolls, teddy-bears
and well-dressed golliwogs;
and an art-gallery is not a
nursery.
But once again, as the por-
trait of “Frances” shows, Kmit
can make a sensitive approach
to life when he wants to. He
does it again in the big “Still
Life.”
So far, with these exceptions,
he has had only one thing to
say—or two perhaps: the
harlequinade of inlaid colors,,
the stylised, wistful face. If it is
a clever thing, it is also
elementary ; if it is distinctive,
it is also extremely limited. It
will be interesting to see if
travel broadens the range of his
conversation.
❖ *> *
Matcham Skipper
An exhibition of jewellery
and sculpture by Matcham
Skipper at Brummel’s Gallery,
Toorak Road, South Yarra, is,
as exhibitions go in Melbourne,
unique for several reasons. One
is that it is completely outside
current fashions, and another
is that the craftsmanship dis-
played in the setting of the
sapphires, opals and semi-
precious stones in the rings,
brooches and necklaces is as
excellent as the observation
shown in the modelling of the
figures of nymphs and satyrs
and in the portraits.
The show is a delight, reflect-
ing as it does the pride of the
craftsman and the happiness
of the unambitious artist.
Myra Gould, whose land-
scapes and portraits share the
walls with the jewellery and
sculpture, shows similar
qualities in her painting,
particularly in a warm and
glowing nude.
❖ ❖
John Brack’s Nudes
John Brack's show at the
Australian Galleries, Colline-
wood, is reported to have sold
out of nudes on the opening
day. This is an event un-
precedented in Melbourne’s
artistic history. Most nude
painters are satisfied if they
sell one in a lifetime, but
Brack sold 25, including one to
the National Gallery of Mel-
bourne for 250 guineas and
another to the Sydney ditto
for 100. The highest-priced one
was Melbourne Gallery’s buy,
whiph is “Nude in an Arm-
chair,” and the lowest-priced
was “Nude with Crossed Legs”
at 12 guineas. Total sales were
in the region of £l5OO.
In the conventional sense
Mr, Brack’s nudes are not in
the least voluptuous or alluring
or even pretty; they are as
asensual as a diagram of
Euclid, which at first sight they
very much resemble. In fact, if
a Collingwood cop had dropped
in to the exhibition he would
have got far less of a thrill
'from looking at the pictures
than he would from reading the
titles: “Nude on the Black
Bed,” “Nude on the Mattress,”
“Nude with Nightgown” and
just plain “Dressing.”
Nor is the excitement they
have engendered any more
comprehensible from the
aesthetic standpoint. In fact, if
you think of them in terms of
a nude by Titian or Rembrandt,
or even Charles Wheeler, they
come almost next to no-
where ; and the still-life part of
them the bedsteads, arm-
chairs and nightdresses—has no
more artistic quality than a
jamtin-label.
Some of the nudes are yellow,
some olive-green and some pale
pink, but whether it is blue or
pink, the flesh never looks
fleshy, any more than the cloth
looks.clothlike. Where it is in
black-and-white, as in “Nude
with Crossed Legs,” it is just
as much a symbol for a woman
as a Scorfield cartoon is a
symbol for a politician.
Coming back to the nude
bought by the National
Gallery of Melbourne, the
crudity of its color, the stiffness
of its line and the ordinariness
of its observation place the
picture in the class “cartoon.”
It may be a very amusing
example of its genus, but that
hardly seems to justify a
supposedly artistic institution
paying 250 guineas for it and
hanging it in the same gallery
with its Meldrums, Tom
Robertses, McCubbins and
Streetons.
M. G. S.
❖ +*♦ %
Melbourne artist Charles
Bush has designed and executed
a large mural of three panels
for the E., S. and A. Bank in
Darwin. A golden fleece
within a circle in aboriginal
heraldic fashion symbolises the
bank ; there is the bank’s first
branch in Darwin ; and sundry
other figures representing the
N.T., its minerals and its
climate are meant to be
prophetic of the opening-up of
the top end of Australia by the
new The whole
mural makes a striking decora-
tion.
Stage end Music
“One Bright Day”
“One Bright Day,” by Sig-
mund Miller, put on by
Melbourne Little Theatre, is
not a profound play, but it does
posit a real problem, works it
out in a most exciting manner
and brings it to a sensational,
if somewhat sentimental, con-
clusion.
The managing-director of an
immense organisation which
is selling tranquillity-pills by the
billion to an unsuspecting public
is confronted by a doctor with
irrefragable evidence that,
while one-half of the pill is
perfectly innocuous, if not
beneficial, to the taker, the other
half is sudden death to people
—especially children —who are
suffering from a particular
condition of the kidneys or the
liver.
The director is faced with the
appalling alternative of con-
tinuing to pump his lethal
bullets into the nation, or of
making the discovery public and
thus ruining himself, his family,
his employees and his fellow
stockholders and directors, as


iHomi 9
rw
'4mm
NOT* IH9VSAI
■ •:■
mm
m
wMm4&
mmm
£...;•:' •••.• - -±y/'
ss^sSmkH
mfm
mm
rßulk
storage saves
time-money
i Heavy gauge galvanized steel sheets
• Easily erected permanent
• Rodent and weatherproof
Hinged type bag holder on 1000-
6500 Bushel Silos
* Steel earth rings and loading
platforms available as
extras if required
• Prompt delivery
loading
V
EARTH RING
An earth ring, which is an extra ring of
corrugated steel sheets filled with earth or
sand, is a most effective and economical
method of erecting an elevated base for
your Lysaght Silo. The use of an earth ring
reduces the risk of underground seepage.
Full details are available on request.
AUGERS
A completely new type grain auger h
now available to fill and empty Lysaght
Silos. Outstanding features include:
• Unique centre drive unit (Patent
pending No. 22636/56).
• Improved ,capacity.
• All working parts completely en-
cased.
. Adjustable chute tube.
Grain Silos
AND AUGERS
GRAIN SILO PRICES
(F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
Writ* for further information tot
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. In all Capital Cities or
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE WORKS
S27C
well as the town that has grown
up around his enormous pill
factory.
He calls a meeting, explains
the position and takes a vote,
voting himself for the latter
alternative. The manoeuvres of
the various stockholders to
reconcile their consciences with
their natural desire for a quiet
life and a bit of comfort in their
old age make this scene the
best in the play. The vote goes
against him, and his colleagues
toddle off on their various
occasions, leaving the tortured
man alone with his visions of
murdered children. The curtain
descends as he dials long-
distance and asks for the editor
of a leading New York daily.
' There is a touch of the com-
monplace about the writing
which made it difficult for Carl
Bleazby (the director), Alwyn
Owen, Judith Jack, Noel Byrne,
Claude Thomas, George Dixon
and other members of the Little
Theatre’s competent team of
actors to put Mr. Miller’s
message over. Except for
William Catgull, the father of
the drug’s first victim, they
were stereotypes rather than
human beings.
<* * *
“Candida”
In llie production of Shaw’s
“Candida” by Sydenham
Pocket Playhouse (Sydney),
Dennis Glenny did his best as
that Socialist windbag the
Reverend Moreil, although he
could have relied less on beard-
shaking bluster and more on
benevolent dignity. As Candida,
Margaret Clancy had the right
features and voice, but at times
lapsed into artificiality
Candida must be vital, attrac-
tive and, above all, real.
Melva Kitchen, as Morell’s
secretary ; Donald Frost, as the
officious young curate; and
Gerry Duggan, as Candida’s
money-grubbing papa, were all
adequate—Shaw is never more
cruel than when bringing to
light the banalities of suburban-
ites.
The performance of the
evening was John Craig’s
inspired portrait of the poet
Eugene Matchbanks; every
gesture and every inflection
was just right. The only
possible fault was a too-rapid
delivery of lengthier lines,
although possibly Craig
deliberately adopted this
artistic nervousness.
A. W.
<* *** ❖
“Ruddigore”
Their eyes blinded by tears
of affection Gilsullivanites have
been sitting in serried ranks in
Her Majesty’s, Melbourne,
surveying a revival of Gilbert’s
satire on old-time melodrama
and rapturously applauding
every quip of Richard Daunt-
less, the man-o’-,war’s man, and
splitting their sides laughing at
every caper of the wicked
baronet, Sir Despard. As Mad
Margaret, Jane Martin touches
every heartstring, with a really
magnificent piece of acting.
Unfortunately, to all these
charms the modern generation
is completely anaesthetic. Of
old-time melodrama the modern
generation knows less than it
knows of Great - grandma’s
crinoline and bloomers. Long


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
IV. J. HITCHCOCK . Wcnnijur.
before the modern generation
was born the movies took over
that function of the commercial
theatre holus-bolus and, it must
be admitted, improved its
entertainment value out of
recognition, without tampering
with its aesthetic virtues.
Hence to the modern genera-
tion Gilbert’s cut and thrust,
which is as keen as ever, seems
to be shadow-sparring, while
Grahame Clifford’s singing,
Richard Watson’s capering and
Helen Roberts’s sweet warbling
and archness (charming as that
is) go for absolutely nothing.
A sad consequence of which is
that the chitter-chatter of Sulli-
van’s music isn’t echoed by a
corresponding tinkle in the box-
office of the theatre.
Much the same thing
be said of “Patience,” which
was Gilbert’s alleged satire on
the alleged aesthetic movement
of the ’eighties. Gilbert’s
original intention was to satirise
rival curates, but not wishing
to offend the church he
changed the curates into rival
poets, one of whom was the
ecstatic Bunthorne. Bunthorne
became associated in the public
mind with Oscar Wilde, and,
although Bunthorne was not in
the least like Wilde and was
not meant to be, when the
famous trial of Wilde came on
it was Bunthorne the public
thought of when they looked
at Wilde. As the modern
generation knows nothing of
the aesthetic movement of the
’eighties and cares less,
“Patience” is almost meaning-
less to it.
M. G. S.
Two Quintets
The Musica Viva Society
provided something special
at Sydney Con. in the Mozart
and the Brahms Quintets for
Clarinet and Strings. In each
case the key-signature clearly
sets the mood—in the Mozart
the A Major reflects the sunni-
ness which pervades it; the B
Minor of the Brahms sets its
sombre colors.
The Mozart gave clarinetist
Gabor Reeves the greater scope
for his solo voice to be heard —
and a beautiful tone he con-
jured, especially mellow and
warm in the lower recesses of
the bass register—and fluent
integration marked the fusing
of his tone with that of the four
strings: first - violin (Ernest
Llewellyn), second - violin
(Donald Hazlewood), ’cello
(Lois Simpson), and viola
(Robert Pikler).
In the Brahms the woodwind
was more often than not
merged with the string-choir,
with a fine balance admirably
held ; only in the slow section
did the clarinet’s voice become
more insistent, and here it
deepened the nostalgic fibre of
the movement. Altogether the
playing of both quintets
reached a standard of urbanity,
understanding and keen
musicianship generally found
only in ensembles of long and
intimate experience.
A A A
V V V
Organ Recital
Although organ-recitals get
little publicity they are increas-
ing in frequency in Sydney (one
every few weeks or so) and
audiences are growing.
Present commentator, an
enthusiast, dropped into
Sydney’s Christ Church, St.
Laurence, the other day to hear
an organ and choral pro-
gramme titled Music for St.
Cecilia’s Day.
Organist Vincent . Sheppard
started with three pieces from
Haydn’s “Clockwork” series-
tinkling miniatures, so merry-
go - roundish as to conjure
painted horses plunging in a
fixed orbit. Mozart’s Fantasie
in F Minor had a French
severity about the opening bars,
contrasting nicely with the
preceding item. In the final few
bars, waves of double-/o/7e
organ-tone bounced off the-
mellow stone walls.
Colin Sapsford then took
over, and played Gennaro
D’Onofrio’s “Suite da Con-
certo”— the introduction richly
harmonic, but the second move-
ment, called “Prayer,” more
sugary than a toffee-apple. The
scherzo, following, was a fairy-
floss movement built out of
wispy scale-passages for flute-
stops, alternating with a serious
little chorale. Last movement,
an allegro vivace, paraded
along like an ornamented
Christmas-carol.
The evening, though, seemed
to reach a climax when the
choir rose to sing antiphons
and a magnificat. Unaccom-
panied, and singing in unison,
they moved through seven
lovely antiphons, their golden
notes at the end of each phrase
floating up to the cross-beams
of the roof. The magnificat
rang with a chordal fullness.
Colin Sapsford returned to
the console to play John
Gordon’s Christmas Sonata, the
first-section perhaps the most
interesting, and, finally,
Norman Johnston provided
some glistening French organ-
music. The organ must have
been suffering a delayed hang-
over from Sydney’s scorching
weekend because it .suddenly
went violently out of tune,
doing strange things to the
Langlais Pedal Epilogue, which
must have been most discon-,
certing for Mr. Johnston.
A. W.
❖ ❖ *
“The Mikado”
Burwood Musical Society’s
production (by W. Murray) of
“The Mikado” at Ashfield
(Sydney) Town Hall was a crisp
and stylish effort with a spon-
taneity and enthusiasm that
some professional companies
could emulate with profit.
Discipline in the choruses
extended from fan-snapping
with precision to on-the-beat
entries, and the cast was very
good indeed.
Filins
“Sea Wife”
This tale of a nun (whose
habit has been lost in the
scramble for survival) and three
men cast adrift from a
torpedoed refugee-ship during
the Pacific war looks like an
attempt to cash-in on the
success of “Heaven Knows, Mr.
Allison,” but it has none of the
strength or subtlety of the
imaginatively - directed John
Huston film. A major weak-
ness, apart from the artificiality
of the plot, is the unconvincing
performance by Joan Collins
as the nun, who unaccountably
conceals her identity, which is
known to only one of the three
men, the negro purser (Cv
Grant).
Basil Sydney, as an aggres-
sive, color-conscious tycoon,
and Richard Burton, as the
natural leader of the little party,
do their best with a mediocre
script. At Sydney Mayfair.
❖ ♦♦♦ *■
“Man of a Thousand Faces”
This “biography” of Lon
Chaney follows the familiar
Hollywood recipe—a string of
over-emphasised private-life
incidents with some snippets of
career-triumphs, all cooked to
a sentimental simmer.
James Cagney, in the role of
Chaney (son of deaf-mute
parents who battled his way up
through the ranks of extras to
stardom), captures the aggres-
sion, cockiness and tenacity of
Chaney the early battler, and
he brings-off some good repro-
ductions of the horrorman's
most noted roles. Dorothy
Malone carves the ham rather
thickly as the neurotic first wife.
At Sydney State.
♦♦♦
“Forty Guns”
This macabre Western, which
is literally strewn with corpses,
has the familiar ruthless ranch-
owner (this time a woman) who
rides roughshod over the rights
of others, with a crooked
sheriff aiding and abetting her
malefactions. And who should
lead her to the paths of recti-
tude and matrimony but the
strong and not-so-silent district
marshal—though not before he
is compelled to fill her vicious
killer of a brother so full of
lead that they almost need a
block-and-tackle to shift the
corpse. Barbara Stanwyck is
the Amazon who barks her
orders to her gun-slingers in a
heavy baritone, and Barry Sulli-
van the he-man who finally
gives her the orders. At Sydney
Plaza.
*** ❖ *X+
“Tiger in the Smoke”
A treasure-search and a spot
of murder and mayhem on the
side, and London night-fogs
supplying a sinister back-
ground for some of the dark
doings—these add-up to a fair
measure of excitement and sus-
pense in this British-made film
at Sydney Victory. Even when
the director flicks out of high
gear to coast along to the next
crisis, competent acting and
crisp dialogue maintain the
suspense. A competent team
includes Donald Sinden,
Laurence Naismith, Tony
Wright, Muriel Pavlow and
Beatrice Varley.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bitumen and Oil Refineries (Aust.)
TRACKED by the California Texas
Corp of U.S.A., which holds 40 p.c.
of the ord. capital, Bitumen and Oil
Refineries (Australia), Ltd., was launched
in 1946 and in its relatively short career
has earned a well-founded reputation as
a healthy profit-winner.
It was originally intended that the oil-
refinery established at Matraville (Sydney)
would be used mainly for the production
of bitumen, but shortly after the plant
commenced operation in 1948 it was
decided to extend the range of products
to include motor-spirit, aviation-gasoline,
diesel distillates, etc. California Texas at
first opposed this move, which involved
a long-term contract with Anglo-Iranian
(now British Petroleum), but agreement
was eventually reached on the subject
and a catalytic-reformer (platformer)
unit was installed in 1952.
Queensland Oil Refineries Pty. was
formed as a wholly-owned subsidiary in
1954 and now operates a small refinery
at Brisbane. Another subsidiary, W. B.
Carr Constructions Pty., undertakes road-
construction in the eastern States, taking
portion of the parent’s bitumen output.
Most of Boral’s crude-oil requirements
are obtained from California Texas, that
co.’s Australian associate, Caltex Oil
(Australia) Pty., marketing many of the
refined products.
Boral is a substantial shareholder in
Petroleum and Chemical Corpo ration
(“Paccal”), supplying the co. with residual
oils for use in its gas-making plant. (The
four-year-old Paccal has yet to pay a div.,
and, having overcome most of its plant
problems, is now finding difficulty in dis-
posing of its output at profitable prices.)
Extensions to the Matraville refinery,
now nearing completion, will raise.plant-
capacity from 10,000 barrels to 15,000
barrels a day. To provide part of the
finance for this work 500,000 £l7 p.c.
redeemable prefs., participating to 8 p.c.,
were issued early last term, lifting paid
capital to £2{ million, of. which £2 million
is in £1 ords. The prefs. are redeemable
at a 12} p.c. premium any time between
1961 and a.d. 2000. Bonus-scrip was
handed out (one-for-five) in 1955, follow-
ing revaluation of fixed assets and at the
same time shareholders were offered two
new ords. at par for every five held. The
co. paid its first div. (8 p.c.) in 1950,
adopting the current 15 p.c. div.-rate in
1952.
The two refineries treated a “slightly
larger” qauntity of crude-oil last term
(to June 30), the Queensland subsidiary
making excellent progress to turn in a
profit, before tax, of £110,462, compared
with only £l4l in the previous year. Pub-
lished accounts show a consolidated net
profit of £459,582 (down £6129) “after
writing-off certain plant-construction
expenditure” and allowing £247,095 (up
£43,504) for depreciation. Judging by
the size of the tax-provision, £55,950
higher at £394,000, the capital expenditure
charged against income was far greater
than the spiall slip in earnings:
7 Parent and Subsidiaries.
f— Dividends To Re- Re-
June,Profit. Pref.y Ord. serves. serves.*
7-8 i».c.
£ A £ £ £
’53..370,704 15p.c.=l 87,500 183,204 518,657
’54..473,478 15 „„ 187,500 285,978 804,035
Revaluation fixed assets, £250,000 .. 1,054,035
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 .. 804,035
Profit sale land, £2725 . , .. 807,360
Prelim, expenses written-off, £4842.. 802,518
' ’55..515,098 15p.c.=243,750 271,348 1,073,800
’56..465,711 15 ~,,300,000 165,711 1,239,577
Share-issue expenses w/off, £22,770.. 1,216,807
’57..459,582 38,885 15p.e.=300,000 120,097 1,337,504
* Subject to intangibles, written-off 30/6/’55. 1
An 8 p.c. div. on the pref. capital raised
during the term took £38,885, the balance
of the profit equalling 21 p.c. of ord.
capital as against 23.2, 31.6, 37.8 and
29.6 p.c. in the four years back to 1953.
A heavy outlay on new plant kept the
co. rather short of working-capital and
although £700,000 of new share- and
debenture-capital was introduced during
the year (a further £300,000 of debenture
money is available in the current term),
current assets exceeded current liabilities
by only £388,778 at June 30 last:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref. ~ .. £500,000
Ord £2,000,000 £2,000,000 2,000,000
Reserves .. .. 1,073,866 1,239,577 1,337,504
Debentures .. 500,000 500,000 700.000
Creditors .. .. 607,448 2,089,622 1.586,809
Tax provision .. 309,204 1)42,964 402,139
Final div. .. 150,000 150,000 170,000
£4,640,518 £6,322,163 £0.096,452
Land, refinery, etc. 2,675,185 3,239,020 3,823,726
Shares 200,000 300,000 .325,000
Stocks .. .. 877,298 1,449.645 1,441,746
Debtors .. .. 846,880 1,289,530 1,084,208
Cash, etc... .. 41,155 43,968 21,772
£4,640,518 £6,322,163 £6.696,452
Excluding the amount charged in the
p. and 1. account, something over
£830,000 was spent on fixed assets, mainly
in connection with the extensions to the
Matraville refinery. Book-debts dropped
by £205,322 and while there was little
alteration to stocks the amount owing to
creditors for oil received or in transit,
after deducting available cash from
current letters-of-credit, was reduced bv
£502,813.
The removal of primage on imported
gasoline earlier this year has reduced the
protection afforded to the local oil-
refining industry. With plant-extensions
scheduled for completion in the next few
months Boral expects to offset this reduc-
tion, in part at least, by increasing output
and sales. Long-term contracts for the
supply of crude oil and the sale of refined
products should assist the co. to further
consolidate its position, and earnings are
unlikely to be affected by the big increase
in Australian refinery-capacity over the
last couple of years.
Supported by net tangible assets of
335. 4d. the f.-p. £1 ords. at 535. 9d.
would return £5 11s. Bd. p.c. from a
15 p.c. div.
Malcolm Moore Industries, Ltd.
T>ROBLEM child in the Malcolm Moore
family of civil and mechanical
engineers over the past few years has
been the road-machinery offshoot which
last term ran up a loss well in excess of
the earnings claimed by other members
of the group.
Unfortunately for ord. shareholders in
the parent co., Malcolm Moore Indus-
ties, Ltd., portion of the large amount
of share-capital raised since 1952 is tied-
up in the stock and other assets of this
subsidiary, the ord. div.-rate, after four
years at 20 p.c., dropping to 15 p,c. in
1954 and p.c. in 1956. No ord. div.
was paid last term.
The 36-year-old business controlled by
Malcolm Moore Industries was built-up
mainly around the manufacture of bulk-
handling and conveyor-equipment and
various types of overhead- and mobile-
cranes, other interests including the pro-
duction of light roadmaking equipment,
mechanical farm-implements, pumps, etc.,
and the distribution of tractors and earth-
moving machinery. Principal subsidiaries
‘are:
Moore Road Machinery (Aust.) Ply.
(roadmaking, earthmoving and farm equip-
ment, tractor distributor).
Moore Crane and Engineering Co. Pty.
(overhead cranes, etc.).
Moore Hydraulics Pty. (valves, pump,
tractor-attachments, hydraulic transmissions,
power-steering units, etc.).
Moore Conveyor Co. Pty. (conveyor-
systems).
Moore Engineering (Cooma), Pty. (steel-
work for use on the Snowy Mountains
scheme).
Plans for the manufacture of crawler-
type tractors were announced in 1955
and part of the capital raised in that
year was to have been used to finance
the outlay involved. Since then, however,
the co. has accumulated stocks of im-
ported machines and nothing has been
heard of the project for some time.
The group operates in atl States, but
manufacturing activity is centred in and
around Melbourne, with one subsidiary
fabricating steelwork at Cooma (N.S.YV.)
for use by the Snowy Mountains Hydro-
Electric Authority.
Moore Road Machinery suffered a
“major setback" in the 1955-56 term,
although earnings were bolstered by a
“special recoupment of £131,250," the
board blaming a poor demand for earth-
moving and roadmaking plant. Trading
conditions encountered by this subsidiary
during the year to June 30 last were “con-
siderably worse,” the position being
further aggravated by cancellation of a
contract for work at the St. Mary’s
ammunition-filling factory (estimated to
have cost the co. £50,000) and the need
to write-down the book-value of trade-in
stocks by £52,347.
All other subsidiaries operated success-
fully last term, particularly the crane
and conveyor cos., but as a result of
road-machinery losses the group as a
whole showed a net loss of £163,123
(compared with a £153,087 profit in the
preceding term) after providing £38,7>0


(down £60,750) for taxation and £61,560
(up £8578) for depreciation:
(Consolidated Figures.)
f Dividends. ~
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
Surplus sale of assets, £4476 .. .. 296,571
Share premiums, £87,500 .. .. 384,071
1952. . 150,534 18,334 20 p.c. = 71,666 60,534 444,605
Surplus sale assets, £784 .. .. 445,389
Share-premiums, £256,137 .. .. 701,526
1953. . 155,278 20,000 20 p.c. = 93,542 41,736 743,262
Share-premiums, £6363 .. .. .. 749,625
Surplus sale assets, £2425 .. .. 752,050
1954. .176,994 20,000 15 p.c. = 97,500 59,494 811,544
1955. .183,810 20,000 15 „ ~97,500 65,810 877,354
Overprovisions for tax, £45,077 . . 922,431
1956. .163,087 20,000 71 p.c.=71,750 61,337 983,768
Profit sale assets, £16,834 .. 1,000,602
Tax overprovided, £7724.. .. 1,008,326
Loss.
1957. .163,123 20,000 Nil 825,203
* Subject to intangibles, £21,046 at June 30, 1957.
The net fall in reserves, after payment of
the pref. div., was £158,565, £16,834
coming from the profitable sale of fixed
assets and £7724 from previous over-
provision for tax.
The parent has more than trebled its
paid capital since 1951, one-for-one
issues being made in 1952 (at a 100 p.c.
premium) and 1955 (at par). Of the
1,840,000 f.-p. £1 shares issued 400,000
carry a fixed 5 p.c. div.
Stocks were cut by £243,500 (including
the £52,347 write-off) last term but still
accounted for over 57'p.c. of total group
assets at the end of the year, the need for
a greater degree of liquidity showing up
in the balance-sheet:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Capital— - 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Ord 650,000 1,440,000 1,440,000
Reserves .. .. 877,354 983,768 825,203
Overdraft .. .. 1,451,335 752,308 825,845
Creditors .. .. 592,550 856,345 633,605
Tax provision .. 147,483 101,905 39,619
Final divs. .. 68,500 43,000 10,000
£4,187,222 £4,577,326 £4,174,272
Freeholds .. .. 347,446 394.136 378,741
Leaseholds .. 275,497 , 276,077 282,074
Plant, etc. .. 551,223 585,058 645,788
Investments .. 5,087 5,087 5,087
Loan .. .. 63,098 59,775
Stock .. .. 2,429,902 2.643,490 2,399,990
Debtors ... .. 553,138 571,584 368,371
Deposits, etc. .. 12,770 17,750 13,400
Intangibles .. 12,159 21,046 21,046
£4,187,222 £4,577,326 £4,174,272
Big reductions in both book-debts (down
£203,213) and creditors (down £222,740)
were accompanied by a £73,537 increase
in the overdraft, and with a net £60,730
going into fixed assets working-capital
fell by £206,574 to £1,272,692. Freeholds
are shown at cost, plant, etc., at cost less
depreciation.
Although the board expects the road-
machinery offshoot to operate on a pro-
fitable basis in the current term a return
commensurate with the capital invested
in this side of the business seems most
unlikely. Last year’s attempt to use the
roadmaking workshop for the production
of conveyor-equipment appears to have
been thwarted by cancellation of the St.
Mary’s contract, but further efforts in
this direction could improve overall
results.
Priced at 12s. 9d. immediately before
publication of last term’s figures, the
f.-p. £1 ords. now bring 16s. Bd., con-
solidated accounts showing net tangible
assets of 31s. for each £ of ord. capital.
Publishers Holdings, Ltd. (Sydney)
CJINCE Publishers’ ’Change-listing in
June, 1951, a high earning-potential,
a consistent 15 p.c. handout, and a snow-
balling assets-backing (now Bs. a
share, compared with 3s. Bd. at June 30,
1951) have combined to maintain share-
market interest in this go-ahead publish-
ing concern, whose ss. scrip recently
changed hands at Bs. 6d., returning the
above-average yield of £8 16s. 6d. p.c.
The follow-on of a co. founded 21
years ago by K. G. Murray, to whose
zeal the popular monthly owes much of
its present vitality in this country, Pub-
lishers Holdings was registered in Octo-
ber, 1950, when 200,000 out of 800,000
shares were allotted to the public, the
directors and their associates subscribing
the balance. In August, 1955, paid-up
capital was augmented by a one-for-four
par issue.
Relying heavily on the graphic arts
(and sex) in its drive for reader-appeal,
the co. has built-up a total annual circu-
lation in excess of 19,000,000 copies,
extending even to the U.K., where sales
continue to be well-maintained. Some
slackening was noticed towards the end
of 1956, but turnover is again showing a
“marked upward” tendency, while adver-
tising, the sine qua non of the periodical
trade, is following circulation figures.
Operating a modern, well-equipped
plant at North Lidcombe, the large
printing subsidiary, Kenmure Press, turns
out a diverse range of magazines under
well-known titles—amongst others,
“Man,” “Cavalcade,” “True Story,”
“Australian House and Garden”—in all,
17 regular monthlies, to which can be
added one quarterly, several annuals and
a constant stream of one-issues.
Last term saw two new essays into the
publishing field, “Sports Car World”
and “True Experience.” “Flair” and
“Country,” which made their debut in
1956, are reported to be no\y well
established.
Since incorporation, Publishers has
invested £lOO,OOO in freeholds and over
£150,000 in plant while paying-out
£240,459 in dividends. A new office-
building is scheduled for occupation next
January. No long-term funds have
figured in the accounts since a small
debenture-holding was redeemed in 1952.
The balance-sheet mirrors the co.’s
healthy financial position: —•
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. .. £260,000 £250,000 £250,000
Reserves* . . . . 79,025 119,144 149,128
Outside interests . . 2,750 2,750 2,750
Hire-purchase creditors 10,469 20,324 11,023
Overdraft .. .. 51,986 34,320 23,579
Creditors .. .. 128,211 77,887 120,903
Tax provision .. .. 26,752 48,150 42,928
Staff fund ~ .. 12,075 12,075 12,076
Final div 15,000 18,750 18,750
£526,268 £583,400 £631,136
Freeholds .. .. 73,392 88,918 99,317
Leaseholds .. 5,922 3,031 75
Plant, etc.- .. .. 142,575 159,261 138,556
Stocks 232,950 175,875 215,343
Debtors .. ' .. .. 43,394 63,392 101,672
Cash, etc 27,035 92,923 76,173
Goodwill .. .. 1,000
£526,268 £583,400 £631,136
* Includes provision for increased cost of plant
replacement, £50,000 at 30/6/’57.
Current assets, £393,188, exceed current
liabilities, £217,183 (including hire-
purchase creditors) by £176,005, giving
a comfortable ratio of 1.82:1. Stocks
were £39,468 higher at £215,343, creditors
showing a corresponding increase. The
sizeable inventory-balance is a reflection
of the co.’s annual consumption of over
2000 tons of printing paper and the
necessity for ensuring forward supplies.
Debtors rose sharply by £38,280 to
£101,672.
Basis of freehold-valuation is not stated,
but last year’s depreciation provision on
plant and fittings was £23,531, against an
original cost-and-valuation (1/1/’5l)
figure of £234,796. Reserves include a
£50,000 provision for increased cost of
plant-replacement:
Re-
June, Profit.* , • —Divs. tained. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1951 .. 54,301 p.c. = 15,000 )
Divs. paid by sub. cos., £17,084 f 54,800
Added intangibles, £2OOO .. .. 56.830
Loss sale plant, £551 .. .. .. 57,381
1952 .... 48,088 15 p.c. = 30,000 18,088 39,292
Tax overprovided, £B7 .. .. 39,205
Profit sale plant, £2 .. .. .. 39,203
1953 .. 66,640 15 p.c. = 30,000 36,640 2,503
Rese t
Tax overprovided, £9227 .. .. 6,664
Net profit sale freehold, £6554 .. 13,218
1954 .. 66,867 15 p.c. = 30,000- 36,867 50,085
Tax overprovided, £4 .. .. .. 50,089
1955 .. 58,936 15 p.c. = 30,000 28,936 79,025
Tax underprovided, £lO2 78,923
Intangibles written-off, £2260 . . 76,663
1956 .. 79,356 15 p.c. = 36,875 42,481 119,144
Tax underprovided, £55 .. .. .. 119,089
1957 .. 67,539 15 p.c. = 37,500 30,039 149,128
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
t Includes provision for increased cost of plant
replacement, £50,000 at 30/6/’57.
Net earnings were £67,539, clear of tax-
provision, £42,928, and depreciation
allowances, a reduction of £11,997 on the
previous term, promotion-costs of new
ventures cutting into margins. Share-
holders received £37,500, and £30,039
was added to reserves, now £149,128. A
£2BOO overprovision will accrue from the
reduction of co.-tax rates, so adjusted
profit is about £70,339.
Everything considered, Publishers to
date has turned in a very creditable show-
ing. Competition has been, and remains,
keen, low-priced imported paper-backs,
television, and the current “glamor”
offerings of the big dailies vying for their
share of leisure-profits ; despite this, there
is every indication that the co.’s present
buoyancy will be prolated into the
future.
Appleton Industries, Ltd.
A RECORD turnover helped to boost
the net earnings of Appleton Indus-
tries, Ltd., to a new peak last term, the
co. more than regaining the ground lost
in the previous year.
Profits of this Queensland-registered
manufacturer have tended to fluctuate
rather sharply in the nine years since
formation of the present holding co. (to
acquire control of N. V. Appleton Pty.
and Naco Trading Pty.) but no difficulty
has been experienced in sending out a
10 p.c. div. in each of the last eight terms,
despite a one-for-one bonus in 1955.
The manufacture of louvre-windows is
Appleton Industries’ principal interest,
other lines including hot-water systems,
metal window-frames, steel buildings and
plastic sinks. A glass merchandising
section also makes a handy contribution
to earnings. Branches in Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide with the main
Hepdra (Brisbane) works supply an


Australia-wide market, the
co. enjoying in addition an
extensive export trade. A
London office was established
last year to assist in the export
side of the business.
In April of this year the assets
of the Wiles Manufacturing
Co., Ltd., in N.S.W. and
Queensland were purchased for
cash (amount undisclosed),
strengthening the co.’s position
in the steel and steel-frame
building market. *
Sales were higher both in Aus-
tralia and overseas last term (to
June 30) despite the withdrawal
from the not -so - profitable
domestic-appliance field and a
drop in homebuilding activity.
Net profit for the year jumped
by £56,168 to £167,938 after
providing £123,321 (up
£45,020) for taxation and
£34,673 (up £2637) for depre-
ciation :
Appleton Industries and Subsidiaries.
/ Dividends ■,
Pref. Re-
Jne., Prft. 6 p.c. ( Ord. N serves.
£££ ■ £
’50.. 48,178 10p.c.=16,000 19,088
Surplus sale assets, £l2 .. 19,100
’51.. 98,959 10p.c.=18,497 99,562
’52.. 62,766 10 „ „ 20,000 142,32?
Surplus sale assets, £341 . . 142,669
’53.. 69,497 10p.c.=20,000 192,166
’54.. 55,564 2194 10 „ „ 20,833 224,703
Assets revalued, £119,754 . . 344,457
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 94,457
’55..151,530 2850 10p.e.=37,500 205,637
Capital profit, £129 ..205,766
’56..111,770 2550 10p.c.=50,000 264,986
Capital profit, £1766 ..266,752
’57..167",938 2250 10p.c.=50,000 382,440
The earnings covered the pref.
div. (on capital reduced by
annual repayments) and 33.1
p.c. on ord. capital, compared
with 21.8 p.c. in 1956 and 29.7
p.c. in 1955.
Working-capital (up £50,444
at £452,614) was in a more
liquid form at the end of the
year, improved supplies of steel
—the co.’s main raw material —
enabling a reduction in reserve
stocks:—
1956. 1957,
Paid capital* .. £540,000 £535,000
Reserves ,264,986 382,440
Overdraft 197.409 58,937
Creditors .. 178,599 192,519
Tax provision .. 78,300 123,000
Final div. .. 25,000 25,000
£1,284,294 £1,316,896
Freeholds .. 231,598 254,268
Plant, etc. .. 171,218 210,558
Stocks .. .. 662,561 580,799
Debtors.. .. 218,487 270,821
Cash .. .. 430 450
£1,284,294 £1,316,896
♦ Includes 6 p.c. cum. prefs. redeemable
at par in five yearly installments to
31/12/’6O.
No outside assistance was
needed, apparently, to finance
the Wiles deal, the liability to
the bank being reduced by
£138,472 while the amount
owing to creditors increased by
only £13,920. Book-debts rose
by £52,334, a net £62,010 going
into fixed assets. Freeholds
were revalued in 1955 and
plant in 1947.
A number of new products
are being developed, including
the Teleflex remote-control
gear, for which the board
expects to find a wide market.
Demand has been well main-
tained in the current term and
with an increase in the rate of
homebuilding evident in recent
months, another successful year
seems indicated.
At 18s. 6d. (13s. a year ago)
the f.-p. 10s. ords. would
return £5 Bs. Id. p.c. from a
10 p.c. div. Net tangible asset
backing at June 30 last was
17s.
_ . .... ■ TT .
South Alligator Uranium
THIRST accounts from South
-*■ Alligator Uranium, N.L.,
show that in the 15 months to
September 30 last field expen-
diture on investigation, pros-
pecting and underground
development added up to
£82,824, of which £14,123
related to work carried out
in partnership with Mining
Corporation, N.L., at Helafells
(Q,).
Administrative expenses
(£11,898) and directors’ fees
(£2500) took total expenditure
t o £9.7,222, and with a £5OOO
provision for depreciation the
prospecting and development
account was in debit to the
tune of £102,222 at the end of
the term. The mine property
is in the balance-sheet at
£195,000 and preliminary
expenses at £29,281.
At balance-date there was
little in the way of ready cash,
“FULL EMPLOYMENT A PRACTICABLE
OBJECTIVE FOR AUSTRALIA”
-says Bank Chairman
“Australia is committed to full employment as a National
policy, a policy with which we wholeheartedly agree. But
the imperfections that arise when theory is put into practice,
particularly in the realm of human behaviour, render it
impossible to stay —other than maybe fleetingly —at perfect
full employment with price stability and balanced external
trading,” stated Mr. H. D. Giddy, Chairman of Directors of
the National Bank of Australasia Limited, in his address to
shareholders at the Annual Meeting on 27th November.
The inflationary trends through-
out the Western nations have
brought growing criticism from
responsible people, especially abroad,
ol the whole policy of full employ-
ment, which some even believe can-
not be maintained . without a con-
tinuance of inflation and should
therefore be abandoned. But to go
as far as that would involve very
grave risks for everybody.
Mr. Giddy submitted that rather
than question our ability to maintain
full employment it would be more
sensible to be less theoretical and
accept the position that some flexi-
bility is essential if a stable economy
is to be enjoyed.
Overfull Employment and
Inflation
Continuing Mr. Giddy said that
the restraint evident in the private
sector of the Australian economy
during the past year, has brought
our business system down from an
“overfull” employment position.
Nevertheless, prices gnd costs have
continued to rise at an average rate
or about 4% per annum over the
last two years.
This is the phenomenon familiarly
called “creeping” inflation, which
many sections of thought here and
abroad regard as the corollary of the
maintenance of full employment.
But it is common knowledge that we,
more than most other free nations,
have experienced overfull employ-
ment during the greater part of the
post-war period. Our own experi-
ence and that of other countries
strongly suggest that overfull
employment is inseparable from
inflation.
Inflation is almost as great a social
and business evil as the unempldy-
ment of resources. You know its
effects, not the least of which is to
place a premium upon inefficiency
and unsound expansion.
Restraint in Spending
Necessary
Mr. Giddy suggested that to pre-
serve employment and avoid infla-
tion, restraint in both capital and
consumer spending was necessary.
General increases in incomes pot
emanating from greater real
prosperity only add to inflation, as
do additions to government
expenditure or cash deficits in
budgets which are to be avoided.
High taxation generally and imposts
such as pay-roll tax particularly
raise the cost of doing business.
The Chairman also said that our
sharply progressive income tax is a
strong disincentive to effort and
efficiency. A flat rate levy on all
incomes above a relatively low
exemption would be an improved
method of paying for social benefit
payments exclusive of unemploy-
ment relief.
Expansion of the volume of
money beyond that required for a
rising population and general
business growth assists excessive
spending and activity. Thus,
permanent “easy money” with a
too ready availability of credit is
inconsistent with employment and
price stability. .
Overseas Exchange Reserves
Vital
The severe variations in our over-
seas trading present a very difficult
complication for us in pursuing
stability. For this reason, our
foreign exchange reserves must be
conserved, so that room for
manoeuvre is not lost, in which event
it may be difficult to maintain full
employment.
Mr. Giddy concluded by saying
that at times, an easing of the
policy advocated may be necessary
to arrest any business drift
significantly below the full employ-
ment level. The effects of a drought,
of a sudden fall in export prices, and
of a contraction in business out-
lays may precipitate conditions in
which expansion rather than
restraint is the appropriate keynote.
In our developing continent, it is
easy to reverse a policy of restraint.
So far as I can see, there will be no
iack of opportunities for industrial
and business, expansion, for capital
works projects appropriate to public
authorities, and for a very great deal
more development of natural
resources of all kinds —agricultural,
mineral, and the like. A rapidly
growing population ensures annual
increases in spending upon con-
sumption goods and a wider market
in general.
New Banking Legislation
With possible reservations as to
some aspects, the Chairman strongly
commended the proposed banking
legislation as being designed to
establish a true central bank with
increased monetary control powers
and to safeguard fair, competitive
banking and the public's freedom
of choice.
Balance Sheet
For the first time in the Bank’s
history, assets at £321,226,088
exceeded £300,000,000, having
increased by £34,696,449. Liquid
assets rose by almost £23,000,090
row being 10/Id. in the £ of
deposits as against 9/Id. last year.
The main movement in liabilities
was a rise of more than £20,000,000
in deposits.
Gross earnings rose by £208,058,
but working expenses, including
taxation provision, increased by
£232,510, resulting in a decline in
net profit of £24,452. Concern was
expressed at the constant growth in
operating costs.


CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR JOSEPH O'KEEFE late
of 158 Bourke Street Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that. ALICE LEAH O'KEEFE
has filed Petition for Divorce No. 8832
of 1954 on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse and is asking that the
Court exercise its discretion in her
favour under Section 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend you may file an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 14th of
February 1958 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from LESLIE
RUNDLE & H. M. TAUBMAN, Soli-
citors, 66 King Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.'
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HENRI BIGAUX formerly of 42
King’s Cross Road King’s Cross. —TAKE
NOTICE that FLORENCE DORIS
BIGAUX has filed-.a Petition for
Divorce No. 3468 of 1957 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and - upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter-an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Sydney by 6th February 1958
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. MARSHALL,
MARKS, DEZARNAULDS & JONES,
Solicitors, 67 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
current liabilities amounting
to £13,905 and current assets
(cash £9175 ; stores £8031) to
£17,206. Since the accounts
were ruled-off, however, a call
of 6d. has been made on the
1,360,000 ss. contribs. (now
paid to 3s. 6d.) to give a paid
capital of £393,000, f.-p.
vendor shares accounting for
£155,000 of this total.
The co.’s prospects are in
the South Alligator River area
(N.T.), and are covered by
four claims totalling 320 acres
and an Authority to Prospect
over a further 195 square miles.
Exploration has been under-
taken on the theory that the
small widely-spaced uranium
showings on the surface are
“linked by an almost hori-
zontal and extensively con-
cealed run of pitchblende
mineralisation” extending over
half a mile. An estimated 100
tons of pitchblende has been
proved, and, by early October,
1295 ft. of underground
development had been com-
pleted with about 5000 tons of
ore indicated with a probable
average grade of about 0.7 p.c.
U3OB.
The decision of the neighbor-
ing United Uranium, N.L., to
erect a treatment-plant on the
South Alligator field has stimu-
lated interest in the area, and
negotiations are now in pro-
gress concerning details of the
long-term contract offered to
the South Alligator cos. by the
U.K. Atomic Energy Authority.
Efforts are being made to
develop as much ore as possible
before the end of this month,
when the offer expires. As a
result, South Alligator Uranium
has halted preparations to mine
the Rockhole deposit (proved
over a length of 563 ft. with a
mineable value of 1 p.c. U3OB
over a width of 3ft.) and is
pressing ahead with under-
ground exploration. The con-
tribs. sold recently at around
2s. 3d.
Renison Associated Tin
TNCREASED production and
higher average grades meant
more profit for Tasmanian tin-
miqer Renison Associated Tin
Mines, N.L., last term, the co.,
now back on a div.-paying basis
after a lapse of four years,
sending out divs. equal to 124-
p.c. of paid capital during the
year.
A pleasing feature of the
latest accounts is the big
increase in ore-reserves, which
at 52,500 tons now provide at
least five years’ supply of ore
at the current rate of produc-
tion. The Australian offshoot
of the Rio Tinto group termi-
nated its investigation of areas
held by the co. at Renison Bell
(Tas.) last April and will take
no part in further exploration.
The English co.’s geologist did,
however, accept an ore-reserve
on the property of 850,000 tons,
of above 0.75 p.c. tin.
Approximately half of the
ore mined during the year to
June 30 last came from the
development of the Winze ore-
body, the whole cost of the
development work being
charged against mining-costs,
accounting for most of the
265. Id. increase in total
working-costs (95 s. 7d. per
ton).
The mill treated 10,431 dry
tons of crude ore (up 1278 tons)
averaging 1.47 p.c. tin as
against, 0.87 p.c. in the previous
term:
1956. . 1957.
Crudes, m ined and
treated, tons ' . . 9,153 10.431
Average grade, p.c. Sn. 0.87 1.47
Tin concentrates re-
covered, tons . . 101.6 139.6
Amount realised (net) £52,666 £80,277
Net profit .. .. £8,283 £19,054
Treatment costs per
ton £3/9/10 £4/15/7
Net profit after providing
£l7OO for taxation (nil in the
’56 term) was £10,771 higher
at £19,054. No allowance was
made for depreciation of
assets but, as in preced-
ing years, £5OOO of the earnings
was earmarked for the plant-
replacement reserve.
At the close of the term
current assets (£22,090)
exceeded liabilities by £14,564.
Production in the current
year is running a little below
the average for last term, 3787
tons of crude ore (wet) being
treated, in the 16 weeks to
October 15 last, for 33 tons of
tin concentrates estimated to
be worth £18,430.
Spot tin prices on the
London Metal Exchange are
scarcely above the level at
which the International Tin
Council must buy in for its
buffer stock, but Renison
appears to have increased pro-
duction to the stage where it
can operate profitably at today’s
low prices—provided the grade
of ore is maintained. The
opening of B.H.P.’s tinplate
mill at Port Kembla is expected
to increase the local demand
for tin, already in excess of the
Australian output.
There are 451,015 ss. shares
in the co. paid to 45., recent
sales on the Melbourne ’Change
bringing 3s. Id. to give buyers
at that price a 16.2 p.c. return
from a 12| p.c. div.
Sydney Basin Gas
[From I. Owen]
IyATURAL gas is usually
1 " defined as that mixture of
gaseous hydrocarbons and of
the vapor of volatile hydro-
carbons —sometimes containing
impurities such as nitrogen and
carbon dioxide. Normally, the
mixture occurs as a cap over a
“pool” of liquid petroleum, but
the meaning of the term
“natural gas” is often stretched
to include the inflammable gas
accompanying coal in mines.
For this, however, there are
specific names which should be
used in preference.
Within the confines of the
Sydney Basin, and within the
last few years, two companies
have been engaged in the
search for petroleum and have
expended very considerable
portions of their working-
capital in that search. In their
reports, however, the word
“oil” is now so rarely men-
tioned that the hunt appears to
have degenerated into one for
gas alone.
The Sydney Basin is under-
lain, over a large part of its
area, by a thick series of Coal
Measures. It is to be expected,
therefore, that “shows” of gas
will be struck in boreholes in
the beds overlying the coal
measures and within the
measures themselves, but the
comparative rarity of anything
approaching “gassy” mines—as
the term is understood in
Europe—makes the striking of
commercially - valuable reser-
voirs of gas unlikely. Even in
the . Balmain colliery—where
the gas was collected from a
very large exposed surface of
coal —the operation proved a
financial failure.
This does not mean, of
course, that no large deposits
of gas will be discovered under
the Sydney Basin. The forma-
tion and preservation of such
deposits, however, demands a
very special and rather
-•unusual combination of
geological conditions.
Judging from their published
reports, neither of the drilling
companies has given this fact
the serious consideration and
specialised survey - technique
which it demands.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY UMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offket:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
TjOOR Britain! One reads,
*■' with some distress, that a
percipient and inquiring visitor
to Australia repeatedly has
these words of commiseration
spoken to him. Poor Britain!
Always in a state of crisis.
And how she’s come down in
the world! Where is the spirit
of Dunkirk and of the Blitz?
If there are no short answers
to these comments it is to be
hoped that other enlightened
visitors besides Mr. Harold
Wincott will take pains to point
out to our well-wishers that,
while we cherish their goodwill
and friendship, we would spare
them their sympathy and ask
them to view us, not in the
faded light of a glorious past
but in the glow of an uncertain,
but hopeful, future.
While the economic situation
is clouded and, to many
observers, precarious there are
others who are confident that,
by next spring, we shall be on
the turn (their reasoning
depends, briefly, on a measure
of deflation, nicely timed, and
the union leaders’ seeing the
red-light). At least, there is a
growing public awareness that
inflation may not, as of right,
go on for ever. And the recent
Post Office announcement of
substantially-reduced telephone-
charges is immensely encourag-
ing: prices can be brought
down and the application of
automation, on a nationwide
scale, is already an accom-
plished fact.
What of the future? A con-
versation the other evening
with two headmasters of
Grammar Schools, one in the
Home Counties and the other
in the West Riding of York-
shire, proved most stimulating.
Dealing with the generation at
present under their care they
spoke in terms of humility as
well as of excitement. “They
are wonderful,” said one, “in
character as well as in ability.
In years to come we shall profit
from them.” The other added:
“Delightful people! They're
confident; they don’t worry
and they’re certainly not.
angry.”
These are the boys who were
born during the second half of
the war, who spent their infancy
during the silent revolution
afterwards, who won their
places in the schools on merit
alone and who know, too, that
employers are competing
against each other for them and
that, unlike their fathers, they
will be handsomely paid, even
during training. They are too
young to remember either the
war or the days “when Britain
was great”—a good state of
mind, no doubt, in which to
enter upon a new era.
Ordinary Shares for
Ordinary People
The popularity of Unit Trusts
in recent years instances the
growing awareness of the small
saver in equity stocks. An old-
established English Trust
accepts regular monthly invest-
ments in its thrift plan ; units
of a well-known Scottish one
are now obtainable over the
counter at certain banks ; and
a new company—the first of its
kind in England for over 20
years—which has just been
formed is directing its attention
to factory savings-groups.
Because of the gradual dis-
appearance of the rich client,
stockbrokers are also examin-
ing the potentialities of the
new market. Yet the small indi-
vidual investor still remains
something of a novelty. To buy
small parcels of shares is expen-
sive, especially with transfer
stamp-duty at £2%, the slight
commission earned hardly
justifies the work required, and
the procedure is as exclusively
genteel as a coach-and-four.
That the Stock Exchange,
too, is directly interested in the
ordinary man’s thrift is evi-
dent from the publication in
its current journal of a strik-
ingly innovatory article. The
author, under the pen-name
“Multum in ParVo,” affirms
that the marked rise in the
living-standards of the British
people points to a source —
largely untapped of risk-
capital for industry. He goes
on to declare that the Stock
Exchange should provide the
machinery whereby small sav-
ings could be invested in
ordinary stocks by a depart-
ment (if necessary subsidised
for the first few years) which
would collect these sums (from
£2O to £100) and pass them on
to its members.
Stocks purchased would be
registered in the name of the
Stock Exchange and holdings
would be made up to three
decimal points of a unit so that
no cash need be returned. And,
when a person’s holding had
reached, say, £5OO, he would
then transfer to an individual
broker.
The writer mentions pro-
blems such as selection of
stocks, the Stock Exchange’s
responsibility, dividends,
“rights”-issues, voting - rights,
publicity and, not least, that
risk-capital can mean losses as
well as gains ; but believes that
his scheme, if successfully intro-
duced, would greatly enhance
and extend the reputation of
the Stock Exchange as a whole
and that it would benefit the
country as a whole.
Press-comment is enthusi-
astic.
Make-believe History
It is refreshing to discover
that, though the economics of
production are difficult as ever,
there is still room in the citadel
of the “commercial” theatre
for an art-for-art’s-sake play.
The going has not been easy,
for the New Drama Group is
over seven years old, has put on
a new play every year at the
Edinburgh festival and toured
the provinces, with no impact
upon London other than a for-
gotten adaptation of R. L
Stevenson’s Ebb Tide.
Thanks to Peter Bridge, who
saw it at Guildford and fell for
its charm, Rosemary Anne
Sisson’s sentimental romance,
“The Queen and the Welsh-
man,” has reached the Lyric,
Hammersmith. The daughter of
a Professor of English and her-
self a lecturer, Miss Sisson is a
rarity—the academician who
can write for the theatre. Her
Queen is the Katherine whom
Shakspeare’s Henry V wooed
in such manly and forthright
fashion. Now widowed, she
falls in love With Sir Owen
Tudor (a soldier who had been
knighted by her husband on
Agincourt field), and, despite
the Royal Protector’s imposi-
tion of the death-penalty for
this offence, persuades him to
marry her secretly. They live
together in serene felicity, are
discovered, he goes to Newgate
Prison for his “crime” and she
dies in childbirth.
This rather bald exposition
does scant justice to an
imaginative exercise in pastiche
which has both quality and
charm, to say nothing of a
theme unique in the contem-
porary theatre —the conflict of
true and unsullied love of two
mature people against the
cynical exigencies of state-
craft. With the Queen all heart
and unworldliness and her con-
sort all rugged, unpriggish
fidelity and manliness, the
simplicity of the appeal is irre-
sistible. The dialogue, too, is a
happy compromise, neither
archaic nor modern.
Even so, the artlessness of
characterisation and production
sometimes peeps out of con-
cealment and becomes precious:
.lack Point cannot be far away.
In a climate quite divorced
from sentimentality, the margin
between pathos and bathos is
uncomfortably narrow. But
there, perhaps, the fault lies
with the audience. Edward
Woodward's performance as
Sir Owen, superb for its mascu-
linity, has won him a season at
Stratford -on - Avon. Hilary
Liddell, in her complementary
way, is nearly as good and
copes very well with a French
accent (“I sink zey mean to
keell ’eem”) which, for three
acts, is overmuch. The support-
ing players, as is natural with a
company of this kind, are not
type-cast, but have their
moments. Their enthusiasm is
infectious.
Altogether, the enterprise
deserves success.


HIDING OUR HEROES?
By BRUCE HARDING
ONLY a fortnight before
publication of Dr.
C. E. W. Bean’s Two
Men l Knew —in which
this distinguished Australian
military historian records in
book-form the lives and careers
of Major-General Sir William
Bridges and Lieutenant-General
Sir Brudenell White an
American Professor of English
History visiting Australia under
Fulbright auspices asked:
“Why do you people hide your
heroes?”
He elaborated on this, from
the military viewpoint, by
pointing out that in all our
literature we had only one
pure military biography (John
Hetherington’s Blarney) but
enough personalities, even of
1914-18, to provide material for
perhaps ten.
In addition, he said, the pre-
Federation period contained
such colorful characters as
Colonel T. C. R. (“Tom”) Price,
while 1939-45 produced
another complete set of its own.
These contentions are
accurate enough, and I could
have added to them by saying
that for Korea we have only
George Odgers’s Across the
Parallel and one semi-officiai
narrative of the campaign
included in the War Memorial
publication, With the Aus-
tralians in Korea.
Going back even further to
the period 1899-1902, when
Australia contributed con-
tingents consisting of 859
officers and 15,604 other ranks
to the war in South Africa, we
find this major effort recorded
only in a one-volume work,
Australian Military Contin-
gents, compiled for the Defence
Department by Lieut.-Colonel
P. L. Murray, R.A.A.
There are, however, no
“heroic” characters in these
pages despite acts which
resulted in the award of five
Victoria Crosses —and the con-
cept of the work is largely
statistical. This is handy
enough for working purposes,
but this official history con-
veys little indeed of the trials,
successes, failures, methods or
color of those days. In fact,
although it has to be regarded
as a history, the editor himself
states ;
This volume is not a history of
the war....lt is a statistical
register anil reference. The short
narratives which accompany the
records of Contingents are intended
only as sketches or illustrations of
each campaign.
And that is all they are.
The only worth-while com-
panion to Murray’s work is
J. H. M. Abbott’s Tommy
Cornstalk, “some account of
the less notable features of
the South African War from
the point of view of the Aus-
tralian ranks”—as the author
says. Abbott served as a
corporal in the First Australian
Horse, and although his book
was published in 1902 it
remains as only full-scale
chronicle of the ordinary Aus-
tralian volunteer's experiences.
Thus, while something is
better than nothing, two
volumes to represent such an
intense war effort as the figures
indicate aggregate at most a
mere outline of three years’ war,
allowing nothing of the over-
all spirit and —if we’ve got to
use the word —heroism, to be
permanently recorded.
For 1914-18, on the other
hand, Australia came out with
an acknowledged classic —the
12-volume Official History,
planned and largely executed
by Dr. Bean. Despite the size
of this work, all volumes
enjoyed remarkable popularity
—and abound with heroism.
That, in fact, is where Dr.
Bean created a new concept in
the writing of military his-
tories: that of taking his story
down to the level of the private
soldier, when the circumstances
warranted it, and dealing with
the events in which he was
involved in as much detail as
was necessary for a true appre-
ciation of them. British Official
Histories —of that period, any-
way—rarely covered events or
personalities below battalion
level.
Largely as a result of Bean's
innovation, most volumes ran
to eleven editions ; some twelve
and thirteen. In a different
category was the pictorial
volume, of which sixteen
editions were printed; while the
volume dealing with France,
1918, lagged because it was not
published until the panicky
days of early 1942, when the
book-buying public was more
interested in the invasion scare.
Bean, however, went to great
lengths to unearth .heroes—
without blatancy—during the
course of his story, and we find
that his idea is being continued
in volumes of the 1939-45 his-
tory so far produced under the
“How do you like being attached to
Helicopter Croup ?”
general editorship of Gavin
Long.
Aside from these Govern-
ment-sponsored histories, the
professor, and a good many
Australians, may be surprised
to learn that a significant pro-
portion of Australia’s military
literature never sees the book-
shops, is seldom reviewed in the
press, yet has in many respects
a more pronounced “hero” con-
tent than the official histories,
These are unit histories, com-
piled from official source-
material—such as the war-
diaries which every unit was
obliged to maintain by
honorary writers and editors
for the various associations of
ex-members.
In most cases, compilation
rests with a history committee
of the association, and more
formal sources are supple-
mented by contributions from
ex-members themselves. These
down -to - earth contributions
mould flesh around the frame-
work, with the result that a unit
history is a completely human
and readable document from
which one can capture the spirit
of a unit; its heroes, its wags,
its opinions, actions and atti-
tudes.
Primarily, the objective in
producing these works is that
of providing ex-members with
detailed mementoes of their
travels and fights with the old
unit, and editions are usually
limited to about 2000 copies.
Pre-paid orders are taken from
members prior to publication,
and this money, together with a
subsidy payable from a fund
administered by trustees
appointed by the Military
Board —known as the Unit
War History Trust Fund —•
usually enables the associations
to emerge unscathed with just
enough copies left over to
present one each to next-of-
kin of deceased members.
Outside this field, only
libraries which take the
trouble to acquire copies direct
from associations are likely to
have them, and because publica-
tion is mostly achieved without
publicity, many people who
follow the book world closely
are led into the belief that
such records do not exist.
Yet, while the primary pur-
pose is fulfilled when every
{Continued on page 61)


Goodyear instals
£350,000 plant
process Miracle
TftfPtMEMPERID;
TYRE
CORD
Miracle 3*T cord gives tyres thousands more miles, is bruise
resistant, cooler-running, beats "tyre-growth" and allows
more retreads. It makes Goodyear tyres unchallengeably
the world's strongest, longest-lasting tyres.
GOO D^tEAR
TYRES HAVE TRIPLE-TEMPERED (3#T) CORD
VI9IA


Should Communist China
Be Recognised ?
By DR. C. C. KOCHENDERFER
(f ormer ly Foreign Service Officer, and Professor in lead-
mg American Universities, temporarily residing in Australia)
T>RIT AIN’S recognition of
Communist China was an-
nounced in January, 1950. The
United Kingdom at that time
transferred its recognition from
China’s National Government
to the newly established Cen-
tral People’s Government. She
hoped that friendly gesture*
would be reciprocated.
The Central People’s Gov-
ernment has, inter alia,
snubbed the United Kingdom
officially, confiscated several
hundreds-of-millions of dollars-
worth of British properties,
destroyed British businesses,
and abused British nationals.
It demanded and received as
blackmail thousands of pounds
additional for granting exit
visas to foreign nationals own-
ing and/or operating properties
and industrial plants. It threw
British and foreign citizens
into jail without trial. What
has recognition profited the
United Kingdom nationally—
in terms of prestige, or in-
fluence, or, on balance, pounds
sterling?
One of the issues in dispute
after recognition was that
Britain had maintained a trade-
agent and a Consular represen-
tative in Formosa. In fact,
for many months, there has
been anything but friendly
relations between the -two
countries, partly owing to the
fact that Britain maintains
trade-relations with Taiwan
(Formosa). Peking did not
accord the privilege of the
exchange of Ambassadors with
Britain until September 11,
1954.
Formosa
There are reasons why Com-
munist China should not be
the sole recipient of recognition
on the part of the nations of
the Free World. If such one-
sided recognition were accorded
without thought of what might
happen to Formosa, it would
mean the latter’s eventual
liquidation as well as what it
implies strategically and
psychologically, and as well to
the overseas Chinese in South-
east Asia.
The overseas Chinese in this
area number more than 12
million, and they constitute
as well a significant ratio of
the population. In Hong Kong
they number more than'9B per
cent, of the people ; in Singa-
pore more than 70 per
cent., in Malaya 40 per cent. ;
Thailand has three-and-a-half
million and Indonesia has two
million Chinese among its
inhabitants.
These overseas Chinese are
the most enterprising and are
frequently the dominant seg-
ment in many of the countries.
Were Formosa to be abandoned
without adequate defence
assured in case of aggression
During the year many voices have been raised in favor
of the recognition by Australia of Communist China. One
of the best-informed of recent advocates of this policy was
Sir Douglas Copland, who was Australian Minister to
Chungking 1946-48, before the triumph of the Communists.
In this article Dr. Kochenderfer gives reasons why the Red
regime should NOT be recognised.
from the Chinese mainland,
it would substantially be equiva-
lent to an invitation for the
Nationalist Chinese and the
overseas Chinese to make the
best terms they could with the
Chinese Communist Govern-
ment.
Coveted Region
It should never be forgotten
that South-east Asia is of tre-
mendous importance politically
and economically to the Free
World, and is also one of the
regions most coveted by the
Communist countries. In this
connection it is important also
to draw attention to the fact
that South-east Asia has the
resources that China desper-
ately needs: oil, rice, tung-
sten, is. outstanding in its pro-
duction of tin, and produces
about 95 per cent, of the
world’s rubber.
Jone C. Caldwell, son of a
missionary, with a comprehen-
sive knowledge of the Chinese
language, who has written
several books about China,
and who has also spent most
of his life in China, is autho-
rity for the statement that
“King-sing” (Chinese for
“Attacking the Heart”) is an
organisation providing the
main weapon of the Red
Chinese in the attempt to
force the overseas Chinese to
accept Communism and swear
allegiance to Red China.
This organisation reaches
into every one of the overseas
Chinese communities. Its
agents, numbering in the hun-
dreds, use bribery, threats,
infiltration and subversion,
terror and murder. They play
at once on the natural interest
of the overseas Chinese in their
homeland and their fear that
Red China will soon overrun
their adopted lands. In some
cases promises are given that
compensation will be made for
the property that has been con-
fiscated. In many countries
there has been Communist in-
filtration and control over
banks, newspapers, schools
and trade-unions.
Real Danger
The facts indicate that there
is real danger that the Reds
may win control over South-
east Asia unless the friends of
freedom come forward with
counter-measures of a con-
structive sort, and also provide
effective means of coping with
invidious propaganda, and
other types of subversion and
intimidation.
More information should be
made available concerning the
present economic, political and
social conditions on Taiwan
(Formosa). According to those
who have visited Formosa
recently and the accounts of
scholars and journalists, we are
assured that effective measures
have been introduced to
remove political and economic
abuses, and a sound approach
is made in such matters as
land - reform, taxation and
social welfare, as well as educa-
tion.
Visiting delegations or
groups endeavoring to acquire
reliable and thorough know-
ledge should tour both Chinas,
and take with them a reliable
and impartial interpreter who is
not affiliated with either Gov-
ernment, and one who speaks
Chinese fluently; an open-
minded non-Communist should
be the best qualified to accom-
pany the delegation to both
Chinas. The tour should be
extensive, and accompanying
the delegation should be
foreign economists, political
scientists and sociologists who
might later undertake the com-
parison of the data and reach
final judgment and conclusions.
An Alternative
Another approach to the
recognition problem which is
advocated in some circles is to
recognise both Chinas, which
should definitely provide for
the defence of- the weaker
China. This approach would
call for the United States to
make clear that it would
commit itself to the defence of
Taiwan (Forfnosa) and the
Pescadores, and this commit-
ment should also have the un-
qualified endorsement of all
the leading Free World Powers,
and Formosa’s independence
should also be guaranteed by a
Resolution of the United
Nations.
The Chinese Communists did
not need Russian encourage-
ment to turn their attention to
South-east Asia. They have
assiduously cultivated the non-
Communist States of Asia,
and have given new twists to
the theme of “peaceful co-
existence.” They have estab-
lished by force control over the
whole of Tibet, and have
utilised military means in un-
successful attempts to bring
the whole of Korea and Viet-
nam into their orbit. They
were also the mentors and
agents responsible for guer-
rilla wars in the Philippines
and Malaya.
Red China’s Wars
In summary, Red China,
despite her peaceful protesta-
tions, has been involved in five
wars in seven years. They are
now appealing to Indonesia (to
whom they will likely soon be
sending arms and military
advisers), which is a region
where unfavorable economic
conditions, weak and divided
leadership, and a generally
neutralist orientation make
their leaders vulnerable to
Red China, and have become
so favorably disposed toward
her that Indonesia is beings won
over to the fold of Commun-
ism. It is feared that in the
1960 general election the Com-
munist party will become the
dominant party in Indonesia.
If one believes that Com-
munist China may be willing
to leave the Free World alone


Faith 414 the
Future
At the opening of the Qantas headquarters?
building in Sydney recently my good friend Sir
Hudson Fysh referred to that airline’s success as
being founded in faith in Australia’s future.
It most certainly has been. And amid the
appointments of a modem 15-storey building the
thoughts of the man who is now chairman of
Qantas turned to another place and another time;
to the small room that Queensland and Northern
Territory Aerial Services rented as its first office in
a produce store at Longreach, Queensland; to the
shed that was its first hangar in the showground
outside the town.
I am sure that when a Qantas airliner circled
overhead at the end of the first commercial non-stop
flight from Honolulu to Sydney —an arrival timed
to synchronise with the opening—his mind went
back to the first aircraft Qantas bought: an Avro
biplane with a cruising speed of sixty miles an hour
and capable of carrying one passenger.
The story of the great enterprise began when
Hudson Fysh and P. J. McGinnis were
commissioned by the Federal Government to
survey the Longreach-Darwin air route in 1919 in
preparation for the historic air race from England
to Australia. In the following year Qantas was
formed at Longreach with financial backing led by
Sir Fergus McMaster.
I remember seeing in a shed at Longreach in
1922 some of their aero engines similar to those I
had flown at the war—converted military machines
finding a civilian use. That was the foundation on
which Qantas built; the small beginning from which
an organisation of international proportions
has grown.
Qantas now circles the world, flies in and out
of 26 countries, covers 60,000 unduplicated route
miles, travels 14-million miles a year. And this
grew from the confidence and courage of a few
men who went out into Queensland and the
Northern Territory to meet the challenge of their
ti me —practically, and with what was given to
their hands.
Thirty-seven years on from their founding
day, in an age paced to performances then
unguessed, every department of Australian life
needs more of that faith and spirit which has
brought Qantas high in the world of aviation.
//
in case she assesses the exis-
tence of weakness or the
presence of a power vacuum,
then it is well to ponder the
following facts, and endeavor
to find the answers:
(a) Why has China the second-
larsrest army in the world ?
(b) The fourtli-largest air-force?
(c) Also, must a nation of 600
million resort to conscription and
extensive military training?
Ih 1950 Red China invaded
Korea and was promptly
branded an aggressor by the
United Nations. If Red China
was an aggressor in 1950, then
the five wars in which she has
been involved would still make
her an aggressor in 1957. Her
armies are still in military
occupation of North Korea,
where they have built up, con-
trary to the armistice agree-
ment of 1953, forbidden types
of military equipment and
planes, increased and modern-
ised the number of airfields,
and also added new military
units. The story is much the
same in North Vietnam, where
the armistice terms have also
been flagrantly violated.
Some Communist China
friends may attempt to refute
China’s military ambitions,
ignoring the foregoing facts.
Battle of Flowers
Reference will be made to
Mao Tze-tung’s announce-
ment earlier this year: “Let a
hundred flowers bloom and a
hundred schools of thought
contend.” This so-called
“bloom-contend” doctrine or
programme had for its motiva-
tion the Communists’ desire to
inspire more willing support
and co-operation from pro-
fessors, students, scientists,
managers of enterprises and
technicians.
Mao conceived the pro-
gramme as a means to have the
discontented segments in the
above groups let-off steam.
Another address, some months
after the bloom-contend an-
nouncement, to another closed
meeting of the inner circle (the
Supreme State Conference)
called for a stepping-up of the
criticism movement, and
expounded the theory of “con-
tradictions” in Communist
societies.
Probably the most significant
point to bear in mind is that
there are eight splinter or
puppet parties participating in
Mao’s Government. The free-
speech invitation flushed-out a
number of unsuspected
enemies, such as Professor Po
Pei-chi (Peking People’s
University), who stated : “The
people really want to
overthrow the Communist
party and kill Communists.”
General Lung condemned
Russia for not cancelling war-
debts or making compensation
for Manchurian industrial
equipment carried to Russia
after World War 11. The pro-
fessor has disappeared, which
means he was most probably
liquidated, and the general,
unless he has recanted, is being
brain-washed and subjected to
“rectification.”
“Rectification”
In May the general criticism
programme had been merged
with a “rectification” move-
ment aimed at improving in-
doctrination and tightening
discipline among the Com-
munist-party members. In
June the text of Mao’s
February speech was released
for the first time, and it con-
tained an emphatic definition
of the limits to which criticism
could go. Premier Chou En-lai,
before the rubber-stamp Parlia-
ment, stated the Government’s
position that the time had come
to call a halt to criticism being
made of the Government. He
warned critics that they might
be considered “enemies of the
people if they persist in their
anti-Socialist position,” and
told non-Communist officials
that they would be booted out
of the Government unless they
held their tongues.
Criticism was permissible
under Mao’s doctrine, he
said, only so long as it strength-
ened, not weakened, inter-
national Socialist solidarity. It
appears to be a desperate
attempt to restore discipline in
China, to revive, the revolu-
tionary ardor for Communism
in the ranks, and to keep China
on its feet, if possible.
In closing may I refer to a
book written by a former Com-
munist leader, Milovan Djilas,
and former close colleague of
Tito, who has exposed the
evils of Communism in his
document just off the press.
He says the Communist
leadership is simply a new
class of exploiters. “He who
grabs power grabs privileges,
and indirectly grabs property.
Consequently, in Communism,
power or politics as a profes-
sion is the ideal of those who
have the desire of the prospect
of living as parasites at the
expense of others Because
of its totalitarianism and
monopolism, the new class
finds itself unavoidably at war
with everything it does not
administer or handle....”
The thirst for power is in-
satiable and irresistible among
Communists.


Blood on the River
By WALTER MARSHALL
NIGHT was touching the
encircling hills with
its faint grey fingers.
Niumi knew that it
would fill his valley first and
then spill out over the ranges
until it reached the very edge
of the day.
He went steadily upstream,
keeping close to the bank and
clear of the wide yellow current;
little wavelets running smoothly
away from the rhythmic dip
of his paddle. As he went he
looked often at the green wall
of bush and thought about the
many times he had hunted
there. He knew the criss-cross
of the jungle here better than
he knew the snout-whiskers of
his favorite dog. He thought,
too, about the hills standing
back from the river-flats and
how the jungle clustered round
their feet and hid a certain
village in its shadowy tangle.
Hid it, that is, from all save
those who might be specially
looking for it. The pretty Laa,
wife of NG’Ban, had but to
look from the corner of her
eye and Niumi went to that
yillage like a moth to a candle.
Lately he had thought about
Laa far more than he had
thought about anything else,
and with the much-feared Nissi
roaming hungrily at night he
knew that this was tantamount
to putting his head in the
tiger’s mouth in more ways
than one. But it made not the
slightest difference. It seemed
that the red stones of the hills
had left him with a curious
itch to the soles of his
noctambulant feet.
Where the river looped out
and swayed back on itself many
trails converged at the water’s
edge and canoes lay on the
bank under the eyes of a sentry.
So he drove his craft along
with suitable indifference until
a bend hid him from view.
The trailing vines were a
perfect screen, a cave along
the bank and they parted
smoothly and rasped against
the sides of his canoe as he
went through them. He went
slower then until he barely
moved, his paddle fingering the
water softly. There was no
sound in the vine-tunnel to tell
him, or anyone else, a story
that might make dangerous
gossip. He could see nothing
of what he particularly sought,
only the leaf-roof, and the
artful intrigue of her plan
became a prickle of impatience
that ran up and down his spine
and danced with its little hot
feet on his brain.
Then the branches moved
ever so slightly above him and
he heard her give that soft
mocking laugh of hers as she
threw something that made a
dropping shadow and rapped
the bottom of his canoe and
bounced there and lay round
and hard against his foot. He
knew without looking that it
was a smooth, red pebble from
the village below the hills
and it told him just as
much as a look or a word.
When he got back to his hut
he would put it with the others
he had which it was exactly
like. But now he laughed
softly and the canoe jumped
under the quick thrust of his
paddle, for the pebble talked
of moonlight and of Laa wait-
ing while all else slept.
pjAR back in the swamps and
mud-flats the crocodiles
were stirring in the dusk and
slipping down to the water.
Niumi knew this, and some-
times on the still air he heard
one laugh with that short dark
bellow that crocodiles use to
chill the blood and freeze the
muscles of the unwary so that
he will stand obligingly still to
be eaten.
He knew, too, that under
certain circumstances young
men had been known to swim
with the crocodiles, against
their wishes, of course, and
usually as a result of their
having become careless in the
paying of attentions to other
men’s wives. Being young and
without a wife, he had yet to
learn that husbands know
practically every move their
wives make, even when they
themselves are on the other
side of the ranges.
He often wondered about this
without taking the trouble to
go any further into the matter.
And this in spite of the fact
that it had become ritual in
that part of the world, long
since, to use the obliging
crocodile as a means of teach-
ing arrant young men that if
there is one thing that is
quicker than a wronged
husband’s anger or sharper
than-a discovered wife’s scorn,
it is a crocodile’s tooth.
So night fell and Niumi went
on up the river to his village
while his thoughts stayed up
in the hills where shortly the
moon would rise on the little
tucked-away hut that Laa
shared with NG-Ban, her
warrior husband. Only she did
not share it with him at the
moment, for he was beyond the
mountains chasing trophies and
none knew when he would
return.
Niumi drew his canoe up on
the bank, lifting out the young
buck he had killed that after-
noon and throwing it on the
bank as he did so. He nodded
with exaggerated politeness to
the witchdoctor, too, noting
again One-Fang’s wonderful
propensity for being where he
was least expected. Not that
there was anything against him
being there on the river-bank,
but at this hour he should have
been sitting before his hut
stuffing his belly with food.
Food supplied and prepared,
what is more, by people who
seemed to have discovered that
a little blackmail judiciously
applied is much less desirable
than the preparation of an
occasional meal.
One-Fang cleared his throat
in Niumi’s direction. “A good
night for hunting,” he observed
casually.
“It is that,” replied Niumi,
“except that I do my hunting
by day.”
One - Fang’s ey ebrows
climbed.
“By day! But then, of
course, with such moonlight
to a hunter like yourself” ——
He broke off and watched
the young man easily swing the


f''
1
m
mm
m
m
88®
IKIM
■MmM®
A.M.P.
news lor private company directors
A new plan for key men has recently been
introduced by the A.M.P. Society.
This plan has remarkable advantages in helping
you to solve your INCOME TAX and DEATH DUTY
problems.
Contact your A.M.P. Representative, or a
telephone call to the nearest A.M.P. office will
bring you full information.
RING:-*
Sydney—B 0530
Brisbane —FA 1981
Perth—BA 2001
Melbourne —MB 1781
Adelaide —LA 2372
Hobart —B 7621
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY • ©ENERAL MANAGER: M. C. BUTTFIELD


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
buck one-handed to his
shoulder. Such an arm could
swing a man, especially an old
skinny one, just as easily.
“Night or day, it is much the
same to me,” replied Niumi
casually.
Why didn’t the old fool go
and eat his supper? One-Fang’s
careful fathoming of other
people’s business was one of
his most unpopular abilities.
And it didn’t pay to let him
see that he had scored a point.
Niumi turned to go.
“Remind me,” purred One-
Fang, “to have you bring me
in a tiger some night.”
Niumi sneered. “Certainly.
Any particular night?”
One-Fang remembered the
stock of white ivory that
Niumi hoarded and which he,
One-Fang, found so very useful
for the mumbo-jumbo of rain-
making when his own stock ran
low. He smiled on the youth
as a mother smiles on her
wonderful child.
“Tonight, of course,” he said;
“but, then, I was young myself
once and well know that there
are many other things to take
up a man’s time.”
The smart was deep in
Niumi. He waved his spear
suggestively under One-Fang’s
nose.
“Why you don't go and feed
yourself to the sharks,” he
said, “I’ll never know.”
“Better than to the croco-
diles, perhaps,” said One-Fang
softly.
And he sheered off towards
the smell of cooking.
TT was late when Niumi
slipped out of the village
and soon he was a shadow
running silently among the
black shadows of the jungle.
Nissi-trouble could lay here
but he had no time to think
of it. Beyond the curve of the
river he came out on the path,
the point of the spear he carried
rising and falling smoothly
with each long stride. Distance
streamed out behind him.
The silver of the newly-risen
moon descended, lifting the
darkness like a curtain, lifting
the silence, too, letting the night
sounds swell. That was good.
Noise was good company
where silence, rising suddenly
like a felt thing out of the
night cacophony, was some-
thing to stop at. Something
to become part of with the
other, so that you became the
two ends of one game, both
waiting, each for each.
Niumi was a good player of
such games. He could wait,
and when the other moved first
there was always a way to
settle the matter if your aim
was good. But he ran on easily,
his long piston-thrumming legs
reaching for the earth, bark-
hard soles clawing at it, pushing
it smoothly away behind him.
Running eagerly towards the
vision that filled his head till
there was room for nothing
else in it.
Only once did he stop to
listen, but instead of listening
he let the night-message seep
through the hole that had been
burned in his brain by the
picture of Laa against her
moonlit bower.
Presently he stood in the
shadows watching the sleepy
gate-guard. As well he had not
come for a head, he thought,
or that would have been his
first. A fleeting cloud-shadow
crossed the compound and
Niumi went with it, a black
pip in its grey centre. He
swept aside the curtain, and
Laa laughed with her soft
expectant laughter in the
warm darkness, so he stood
his spear against the wall of
NG’Ban’s hut and went towards
NG’Ban’s sleeping mat . . .
HTHE moon was lowering
J when a scavenging hound,
snuffing against Niumi’s ear,
brought him up out of the deep
well of sleep. He rose from the
warmth of Laa, plucked up his
spear and departed as a flushed
quail rises from the bracken.
Not until he regained the
bush did he pause to comment
briefly, but feelingly, on the
shadowy ancestry of dogs in
general. Then he swung off
along the pathway, through
moonlight that made the night
as day but which made, too,
the shadows deceptively deep,
so that he saw nothing of Nissi
until she was almost upon him.
He caught the bright yellow
flash of her eyes between and
above the steel claws and he
aimed just below it, knowing
that attack was his only chance
and that a slim one. He knew,
too, that she must have been
hungry indeed to forget the
caution that should have made
her leap from behind. He felt
the blade go down and down
through the mesh of gristle and
flesh until it rasped on the
shoulder - blade and was
wrenched from his hands.
Then he was a heap under
her as she twisted and thrashed,
but he slid aside like a snake
and lay in the undergrowth
watching her die. He picked
himself up, marvelling that he
could have come between the
claws so easily.
Of course, if anyone could
have done it, it would have
been Niumi.
So he brushed off the dust
and thought with satisfaction
of the look on One-Fang’s
face when he received the. news.
Wakened from a sleep to bring
the young bucks out and carry
in the trophy. The prospect
appealed to the youth and he
put his foot on the tigress’s
carcass and laughed to himself.
He could see himself quite
plainly leading in the proces-
sion, stalking in front in the
very best tradition. And
besides, the rewards for such
trepidation were almost beyond
belief. The elders would be
suitably impressed and the
warriors suitably envious. Also,
many marriageable daughters,
previously unassailable even to
Niumi, would become suddenly
and satisfyingly available. His
feet grew a good imitation of
wings.
AND for NG’Ban the chase
ended not a night’s march
from home. He paused with
his men only to wipe the blood
from their stabbing-spears and
set off at once for their not-too-
distant village.
When they reached the river
they called to the sentry who
slept quite peacefully in a
canoe by the far bank. So at
last the sentry woke and ferried
them across. The feel of his
own soil under his feet gave
new life to NG’Ban and he
stood in the cold moonlight
before dawn and loosed a shout
that silenced the chatter of the
monkeys for a minute’s walk in
all directions. Then they
plunged into the jungle and
soon came out on the track
they knew well and followed it,
twisting and turning like some
silent stream through the green
overhang.
But they paused, first in
astonishment and then with
growing suspicion at the still-
warm tigress.
NG’Ban motioned his men
back and went forward alone
to investigate. For some
moments he stood quartering
the trail with his eyes. Then
(Continued on page 64)
A GRAIN OF DUST
This morning when I came to town
And passed her window,
The blinds in the front room were down,
And who could know
If she were there, or wherever she might be
If she still loved me.
Alas, what something I had done
I did not know,
That she who loved me and the sun
Should lie in limbo,
Dark in the daytime, when an eyelid’s stir
Would show I loved her.
In the small mornings of regret
No one is ever
(Still waiting for what he hopes to get)
As deft and clever
As he should have been. No, she must still love me
If she is angry.
This evening when I came from town
Long after sunset,
The blinds were up. Why they’d been down
Her eye showed yet,
A grain of dust beneath the lid. But she
Had wept for me.
S.A.
Geoffrey Dutton.


Largest Australian Coy
Conducting all classes of
FiRE ;
MARINE AND
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
Brian Murphy, who has been
with the Sydney Turf Club
for six years, has been
appointed handicapper for
S.T.C. Rosehill and Canter-
bury meetings. At 23 he is
probably the youngest handi-
capper to decide the weights
for a metropolitan club. His
appointment is popular with
racing men, who feel confident
he will make a success of a
job that brings both bouquets
and brickbats. He takes over
from Bert Creagh, now
manager of S.T.C. racetracks.
Bert was appointed S.T.C.
handicapper in 1955, and
Brian became his assistant
earlier this year. Brian has
also been in the judge’s box
on race days assisting the
judge, Claude Martin.
• • • •
When fit to win a class horse
generally has the drop on his
rivals. This was proved at
Warwick Farm last Saturday
week, when Aboukir beat his
12 opponents in fine style, and
again at the same track last
Saturday, when Caranna stood
out in the small field of seven
for the November Handicap.
To put it mildly Caranna had
a game with the rest of them.
He hadn’t started since finish-
ing third to Prince Darius in
the Craven Plate in October,
but had galloped well at
Ridden by Thomp-
son, he was going easily all the
way, winning with a good deal
in hand from Woodland
Stream and Romany Air.
Caranna is to be set for the
Randwick Summer Cup; he
won at the Farm with 9.5, so
he’s sure to get a fair lump in
the Cup. His best wins so far
have been an A.J.C. Derby,
the Rosehill and the Caulfield
Guineas, the Q.T.C. St. Leger
and the A.J.C. Craven Plate.
He finished third in Evening
Peal’s Melbourne Cup.
• • •
Progeny of Rego (imp.), a
son of Nasrullah, are compet-
ing in their first season, and
he has some promising two-
year-olds. Rego won races at
up to furlongs in England.
One of his sons, Recap,
stylishly won the Warwick
Farm Junior Maiden for colts
and geldings on Saturday. A
gelding, he is raced by T. M.
Gadsby, and his pedigree indi-
cates staying possibilities,
family-lines including Amounis
and Piastre. His dam, Kerrie
Anne, is by Sun King (imp.)
from Cradle Song by Double
Remove (imp.) and traces back
to Carbine’s son, Wallace.
Before racing began at
Warwick Farm Miss Oriel, in
the Maiden Stakes for fillies,
was considered one of the best
bets of the day. She did land
the money, too, but only by
the narrowest of margins—a
nose —and then there was a
protest on behalf of the runner-
up, Sonar Star, who seemed
unlucky to have been defeated.
Miss Oriel is a nicely-turned
and well-grown filly by New-
town Wonder (imp.), whose
two-year-olds are noted for
brilliance. She is from Flying
Queen by Golden Sovereign
(imp.) from Virginia by
Pantheon (imp.).
•.• • •
Flames is maintaining her
run of consistency ; her latest
win, in the Farm’s Camden
Handicap, was her fifth in seven
starts, and in the other two
runs she finished second. A
four-year-old, she won the
Camden Handicap in 1.24*, one
second outside Carioca’s track
record. In finishing second and
third respectively The Blue
Hawk and Aura indicated
winning prospects in the near
future. Flames may be in the
line-up for the Villiers Stakes
(one mile)-; to date her successes
have been over shorter
distances.
Hunter’s Sight came from a
rearward position to win the
Highweight at Warwick Farm,
a fine performance, and he
should soon win again. He won
in Adelaide earlier in the year,
was taken to Brisbane, then
brought to Sydney. H. A.
Sampson is training the
Hunter’s Moon horse, who is
expected to contest the Christ-
mas Handicap at Adelaide.
Dubbo opened up a big lead
in the Highweight, but his
condition gave out and he
missed a place ; he will be all
the better for the run and
could soon land a sprint event.
• •, •. •
Different tactics adopted by
N. Sellwood materially assisted
Bystander to win the 101-
furlongs Novice at the Farm,
though he was closely pressed
by Morvi’s Pride in the final
half-furlong. Bystander had
different jockeys in recent races
and mostly had been in front
soon after the start or with the
leaders. Sellwood jumped him
out first, then took hold of the
gelding and eased him to fourth
place, to trail the leaders to
the top of the straight, where
he made a fast run. From that
stage Sellwood rode the three-
year-old hard, and won cleverly.
King Delville, runaway winner
at his prior start at Canter-
bury, proved a weak favorite ;
maybe he isn’t as good as was
thought.
Sydney Turf Club’s Golden
Slipper Stakes —our richest two-
“O.K.! You come up
here and do better !”
year-old event —-will .be run at
Rosehill on March 22. Todman
won last season’s race by eight
lengths. This year New
Zealand may send a crack
two-year-old, Second Earl, to
tackle Australia’s best, and on
form to date Second Earl must
be good; he has won four
times from five starts and is
expected to keep the good work
going at Ellerslie this month.
Bought at the New Zealand
yearling-sales for 850gns., he
was reared at Alton Lodge stud
and is by Tembu (imp.).
• • • •
Fewer entries for this year’s
A.J.C. Villiers Stakes (one mile ;
Dec. 21) and Summer Cup (1|
mile ; Dec. 26) is a little surpris-
ing seeing that Tattersall’s Club
received a slightly increased
nomination for its double, the
Carrington Stakes (six furlongs;
Dec. 28) and Club Cup (H mile;
Jan. 1). However, there’s not
the number of horses in train-
ing these days compared with a
season or two ago. Owners are
finding that costs are at an all-
time high ; owner-trainers have
to meet additional expenses
with feed and other necessities
on the up and up. dockers at
the various tracks have noticed
the reduced numbers. Club
executives may be able to
reduce costs a bit, par-
ticularly in relation to sweep-
stakes. For the Villiers 62
have been nominated (88 last
year); Summer Cup, 52 (61 last
year).
• • • •
Bungalo, Newcastle Maiden
Handicap winner, is related to
a number of smart winners of
earlier times, including Mid-
wise, Talisman and Pennywise.
Talisman won the Sydney Cup.
Bungalo is a three-year-old
gelding by Chateau Roussel
(imp.) from Seawise by Mid-
stream (imp.) from Pennywise
by Veilmond (imp.).
The progeny of mares
that regularly produce winners
are keenly sought at annual
yearling - sales. Some mares
have proved bargain-buys for
thoroughbred breeders. One,
the English mare Eternal City
(bred 1943), has proved a gold-
mine for Kia-Ora Stud, Scone,
with more thousands in stakes
yet to be won by her successful
offspring. By Epigram from
Fair City by Fairway, she has
had six foals sold for 15,600gn5.
as yearlings. Flames wasn’t
auctioned. Six have kept her
name in print, and the seventh,
sold at this year’s auction for
3700gns. to a patron of Rand-
wick trainer Frank Dalton, is
expected to do the right thing
later on. These are her first


. HUMES
pipe lor every
: : purpose-'’
%
r
SS
E
I
Whether you need only one or two lengths of
6" pipe for a driveway or home drainage, or
hundreds of pipes from 4" to 72" for a complete
drainage system, Humes experts are there to
advise, assist and supply.
HUMES LIMITED
43 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. 8X4165
FACTORIES IN:
Adamstown, Grafton, Harden, Lismore,
Queanbeyan. Rydalmere, Tomworth. H 4
five —Caesar (1956, 4000gns.);
Roman Holiday (1954, 3600
gns.); Prince Delville (1953,
2200gn5.); Redeswood (1952,
950gns.); Fort William (1951,
1150gns.).
* * *
There should be a good
crowd at Flemington next
Saturday to see the Melbourne
Racing Club’s International
Stakes. The race is over 13
furlongs, with £3150 stake-
money. Naturally, so soon
after the spring the
field will be short of top-class,
but the nominations promise
as good a field as could be
expected at this time of the
year. Perhaps no rider will
attract as much interest as the
Queen’s jockey, Lester Piggott.
Mounts had not been allotted
at time of writing, but trainer
Bill Allan had asked that
Piggott should ride Baroda
Beam. The combination would
be hard to defeat.
International Stakes selec-
tions: Baroda Beam, 1 ;
Beaupa, 2 ; Pushover, 3.
As a two-year-old the
Meadow Mist filly Bird Note
showed all the speed usual with
the Meadow Mist breed, but
she faded badly at the business-
end of her races. This season
she has come up with much
improved stamina. Last
August, she won a seven-fur-
iongs event at Caulfield, and at
Moonee Valley last Saturday
she finished full of running to
take the £1250 mile Albion
Handicap—richest race on the
programme. Her improved
staying-power can be traced to
her maternal line; her dam,
Majoris, was by Melbourne
Cup winner Sirius. Bird Note
was bred by V.R.C. chairman
Sir Chester Manifold, at
Talindert stud, Camperdown,
and sold for 350gns. to Tas-
manian businessman P. G. Hay,
who races the filly in partner-
ship with his wife.
Some who went to Moonee
Valley to back Chic in the first
Pascoe Handicap were perhaps
deterred by the generous odds
offered against the filly, whose
form indicated a second-to-
none chance. Chic travelled
badly to the course and looked
distressed in the mounting-yard,
but she was still equal to win-
ning the race. She is by the
imported Jambo out of Miss
Dianne ; that sire was a very
speedy two-year-old and later
developed fair stamina, and it
wouldn’t surprise to see Chic
follow the same pattern.
Chic is raced by Mrs. J. R.
Lord as a gift from her hus-
band, who has since bought the
filly’s dam. Miss Dianne, in
foal to imported Good Brandy.
Those who accepted the tight
odds about Shell Pink in the
second Pascoe received a shock
when that filly, who seemed
likely to win easily, tried to run
off a few yards short of the
post, but ex-Sydney apprentice
1. Poy, now attached to Theo
Lewis, had sufficient control to
land her a narrow winner. At
her first start some weeks ago
Shell Pink did run off in a race
at Caulfield ; if she overcomes
her waywardness, she could
develop into a good-class per-
-1 firmer ; she has tons of pace,
and is nicely bred. She is by
a new sire, the English horse
Chavey Down, and is from
Buttons and Bows by High
Peak from Ornamental by
Ornamentation.
It was no surprise to see
Beaupa backed-in with great
confidence in the 13-furlongs
Mt. Alexander Handicap. The
six-year-old Beau Son gelding
was head and shoulders above
his opponents in class. Geoff
Lane, riding with skill and
confidence, was seen at his
best: he kept Beaupa handy to
the lead in a slow-run race, and
when the pressure was applied,
was able, with vigorous riding,
to forestall an attempt by For-
dell to dash clear. Beaupa will
run in the International Stakes
and should have a first-class
chance. Saturday’s win—his
eighth in 69 starts —lifted
Beaupa’s earnings to £25,523.
• • * •
Injuries and suspensions have
depleted the ranks of senior
jockeys in Melbourne, and the
apprentice boys are making the
most of their opportunity ; six
of the eight races at Moonee
Valley were won by indentured
lads. An exception was the
second Dunlister Highweight,
which went to the four-year-old
Newtown Wonder horse Wing-
lov£, ridden by Teddy Preston.
Few of the lads riding at
Moonee Valley were bom when
Preston won the Caulfield-
Melbourne Cups double on
Rivette. Preston does not
accept many rides nowadays
but he can be relied on to give
any mount he takes every
chance to win.
The run of success in Mel-
bourne by Empyrean stock was
continued when Altergo won
the five - furlongs Barkoola
Handicap for colts and geld-
ings. And that colt’s success
was also the first training win
for Bob Wilkinson, who
switched a couple of years ago
from training trotters to
gallopers. Wilkinson had his
share of success both as a
driver and trainer of trotters,
but it has taken him a while
to notch his first win in his new
role. The field in the Barkoola
was weak, but Altergo, who
has not had much racing,
impressed with his strong finish;
he could go on to win a better
.race.
• • • •
The wins by the Chavey
Down filly Shell Pink and the
Empyrean colt Altergo add
point to the pending sale of the
late Les Aldridge’s Kismet
Park stud. It is rather unusual
that the executors of the
Aldridge estate, instead of dis-
persing the stallions and mares
of the stud, have caked for
tenders for sale of the property
and stock as a going concern.
The Empyrean stock are hav-
ing a wonderful season, while
Chavey Down has been repre-
sented by the Flemington
winner Chavey Note as well as
Shell Pink.
* *
Trot Trouble
Stewards had a busy time at
Harold Park on Saturday night.
One action they took was to
withdraw the Metropolitan
licence of driver Ken Smith for
his handling of 7-to-4 favorite
Bangaroo ,Lass in the Marrick-
ville Handicap. They had
plenty on their hands besides
that.
Annual Report (11-to-8
favorite) broke several times
during the Trotters’ Handicap,
as also did Bobby Medoro in
the same race. In the First
Qualifying Stakes Veney's
Robert, Swifton Beauty, Silver
Power and Royal Ruth all
broke at different parts of the
race.
Slippery Sam broke at the
start of the Second Qualifying
Stakes, and Coronation Scott
broke and caused a lot of inter-
ference shortly after the start
of the Petersham Handicap. In
the Lewisham Handicap
Pibroch (9-to-4 favorite)
galloped off the mark and


f
<c
F
y
WHEN ITS OFF TO
Dalgetys
they're so dependable!
vow
tom
I*
mu
WAV..
ifinished-up at the tail-end of
the field, losing all chance.
In the last race, the Dulwich
Hill Handicap, the 7-to-2
second-favorite, Set Point, lost
considerable ground at the
start, made a valiant effort and
caught the field after going a
lap, but the effort was too much
and he finished in the ruck.
Drivers of most of these
horses received warnings that
similar occurrences would result
in severe penalties.
In the Harold Park Free-for-
all Sibelia (evens) once again
showed her class by leading all
the way for a convincing win
from Secret Spring and the
West Australian Robert Sheen.
First Variety (second-favorite
at 5-to-4) lost all chance by
becoming boxed-in all the way
up the straight.
Attendance was over the
18,000 mark.
•+ +
Other Sports
Queenslander Mai Anderson must
have played himself into the No. 2
Davis Cup berth —if he hadn’t
already done so —by his fine five-set
win (7-5, 6-8, 4-6, 6-2, 6-4) over
Mervyn Rose in the final of the
South Australian tennis-singles.
Down two sets to one, Anderson
fought back strongly, and his greater
fitness won the day. Both Anderson
and Rose have been accused of
wilting under pressure; but that
could not be said of either in this
game.
Anderson’s winning of the title
confirms his present high rating in
world amateur tennis, and shows
there was no fluke about his winning
oi the U.S. title in September. In
the final of the U.S. singles Ander-
son defeated Cooper 10-8, 7-5, 6-4;
and the semi-final of the S.A. titles,
iit which Anderson eliminated
Cooper, was to an extent a repeti-
tion, with the scores somewhat
alike—lo-8, 10-8, 6-3. Rose’s last
two appearances in an important
grasscourt final were both in 1954,
when, in February, he beat his
erstwhile doubles-partner Rex Hart-
wig in four sets in the final of the
Australian titles, and in November
in the final of the N.S.W. champion-
ships, when Hartwig, his opponent
again, reversed the February decision
in straight sets.
The S.A. doubles-final was won
by Rose and Cooper, who beat
Anderson and Fraser 6-4, 6-4, 5-7,
C;6, 6-4 in the final. Rose and
Cooper played better tennis in the
final than they had done when
battling to defeat Emerson and
Mark in a semi-final; in that game
Rose had had to “carry” Cooper
over long stretches. Rose appears
to have established himself as a
certain Davis Cup doubles-player,
probably (as suggested by “Bo” in
these pages last week) with Ander-
son in the other court. Rose and
Anderson were paired again for the
Victorian titles.
The women’s singles-title was won,
M, 6-2, by English girl Angela
Mortimer from Victorian Lorraine
Coghlan. These two (not bad-
lookers either of them, either) are
clearly the two top women players
doing the Australian rounds this
year, for they’ve met in each of the
three State finals so far played, with
Miss Mortimer now having won
twice to her opponent’s once.
In Sydney, at the White City, last
Friday, Saturday and Sunday, there
was a professional round-robin
between Hoad, Rosewall, Sedgman
and Segura (who won the Ampol
professional tennis-tournament in
Sydney in February this year). In
these games Hoad beat Sedgman
(with a long 17-15 first set) and Rose-
wall Segura on the first day; on
Saturday Hoad (over Segura) and
Sedgman (over Rosewall) were the
victors; on Sunday Rosewall beat
Hoad (who was foot-faulted 11
times) and Sedgman beat Segura,
with, to wind-up, Hoad and Rose-
wall winning the doubles from
Sedgman and Segura. This time
poor old Pancho didn’t take a trick.
The Australian Rugby Union
Wallabies won their two games last
week in Ireland. In Dublin, in a
game which had its rough moments,
the Wallabies defeated Leinster
10-8 (two converted tries to a con-
verted try and a penalty) after trail-
ing for all but the last few minutes.
In Belfast they beat Ulster 9-0,
scoring two tries and a penalty. The
first half was scoreless, with much
of the play in among two evenly
matched sets of solid forwards; but
after the break Australia was clearly
the better team.
After four successive outright
wins, the touring Australian
cricketers drew with Natal; a moral
victory, though. At stumps eight
second-innings Natal wickets were
down, with the side (which has its
share of Test-players) only 16 runs
past Australia’s first-innings total.
Rain interfered with play on three
o f the four days. Another factor
contributing to a draw-only was
that several of the Australian bats-
men, disregarding skipper Harvey’s
own example of an attractively made
78 as well as his definite instructions
to step-up the scoring-rate, plodded
and prodded wearily along too long.
In the Sheffield Shield match at
the S.C.G., N.S.W. comfortably
defeated W.A. by six wickets.
N.S.W.’s young team (three of the
side were playing their first Shield
game) batted attractively, and
bowled and fielded well. W.A.’s
tour of the eastern States thus
yielded one outright win (over S.A.),
two outright losses (by Queensland
and N.S.W.) and one first-innings
defeat (by Victoria).
A fortnight after his easy points-
win over Mexican Sapo Ortega, the
youngest Sands had a like win over
Algerian Hocine Khalfi. (In his first
Australian bout a month or so ago
Khalfi had k.o.’d Don-McDonnell.)
Five-seconds from the start Khalfi’s
jaw encountered a solid left, where-
upon its owner descended for a
period of Bsec. spent in studied con-
templation of the canvas. After
which, proceedings generally were
on a calmer, less bloodthirsty level,
with the Sands man the less sleepy of
the two (though it was willing
ar. times). Russell showed enough
to convince that he’s a real prospect.
He’s to be given a fight in January
with holder George Bracken for the
Australian lightweight title.
In Brisbane on Friday night Aus-
tralian bantamweight champion Dick
White drew with Australian fly-
weight champ. Warner Batchelor
when the Law stopped the fight in
the fourth round. The boxers were
then level on points after an interest-
ing scrap, but White was having the
worse of it at the end. Batchelor may
have been unlucky not to have got a
1.k.0. decision.
* * *
Australia’s most consistent
professional golfer this year,
Kel Nagle, held off a deter-
mined bid by Bruce Crampton
to win the major money in the
£2OOO Lawn Patrol golf-tourney
at Croydon (Melbourne). Nagle
defeated Crampton by one
stroke ; in the final 18 holes
Nagle shot a 68, while Cramp-
ton came in with a record 66.
The victor’s card read 67, 68,
69, 68 —272. The amateur
trophy went to Victorian Doug
Bachli, 280.
“Severas”: In the annual
G.P.S. v. N.S.W.C.A. XI game
at the S.C.G. last Wednesday
the top-scorer for G.P.S. (76,
out of 140) was Malcolm Ives,
nephew of former Rugby
League star and State cricketer
Bill Ives. Assisting him in an
eighth-wicket stand of 99 was
Peter Burt, son of former State
cricketer and present State
selector Selby Burt. Another
aspect of interest in the game
was that each side had an
opening-batsman Jack Lawes
—father and son. The paternal
Lawes, who plays with North
Sydney, is the oldest man in
Sydney’s first-grade cricket
today; he’s been playing first-
grade since 1926. Incidentally,
this was his first game on the
S.C.G. since 1925, when, as
his son has now done, he repre-
sented G.P.S. against the
N.S.W.C.A.
* * *
“L. 8.5.”: Eden Park,
Auckland, where the 1950
Empire Games were held, is to
be enlarged to hold 70,000,
making it easily the largest
sports-arena in N.Z. Hitherto
Only 60,000 have been able to
pack-in to watch Rugby Union
Tests. Eden Park was the scene
of N.Z.’s first—and so far only
—Test-cricket win, when J. R.
Reid’s team, without Sutcliffe,
defeated Atkinson’s West
Indians in March, 1956. Harm
mond made 336 not-out in a
Test there in 1933. lan
Meckiff looked a coming
champion bowling for Craig’s
team on Eden Park last
summer.


Women’s Letters
STDNEY
Do we build up to Christmas too
gradually in these days? Already the
department - stores are decorated with
sackbut-playing angels and heavenly
planets in illuminated pastels, while choirs
carol in the days’ shopping and Santa
Claus pops up in all parts of the city, to
the bewilderment of the young credulous.
It is all quite exciting, but the danger
is that by Christmas Day the freshness
will have worn off and “Silent Night”
will have worn out its welcome.
Something new in this city will be
the pageant to be presented in Hyde Park
for three days just before Christmas. All
the Churches are joining forces in this
venture, the object of which is to make
a more Christian Christmas.
Noted that not more than five words
may be written on a Christmas-card if it
is to be sent for 3jd. You can say “To
John with love, Mary,” but “To John
with love and kisses, Mary,” will cost you
an extra halfpenny in postage. But then,
the “and kisses” should be well worth
that small sum.
☆ ☆ ☆
A devout and beautiful atmosphere
pervaded the programme of the Christmas
Musicale held at the Town Hall during
the week. It was the first function
organised by the ladies’ committee of the
Sydney Opera House Appeal Fund, and
featured many little-known Christmas
songs and carols. The Lady Mayoress,
M rs. H. F. Jensen, welcomed the guests,
who included Mrs. J. J. Cahill, the wife
of the Premier, and Miss Margaret
Gillespie, who arranged the programme.
An illuminated Christmas-tree and a crib
set the theme for the decorations, and all
the singers were in costume —the Three
Wise Men, Good King Wenceslas and
the angel.
☆ ☆ ft
“Are Christmas presents too expen-
sive?” was one of the topics discussed in
“Any Questions,” the main feature of the
entertainment at the annual meeting of
the Penguin Club of Australia. The
general opinion of the panel, Mrs. E.
Parkinson, Mrs. Kathleen Towie, Mr.
L. A. Davis, Mr. H. Watkins and Miss
Ivy M. Anderson, was that children are
just as happy with a rag doll as with an
elaborate present, but Mr. Watkins
dissented, saying that an expensive present
such as a set of trains was an excellent
idea as Father could have a very good
time with it. Mrs. Jean Ellis, Federal
president of the club, who had just
returned from a tour of Tasmania and
Victoria, announced that three new
groups had been formed, and that Glenelg
(S.A.) and Canberra were also to have
new groups. The membership of the
club, the object of which is to train
women in public speaking, now numbers
a thousand.
Marie Therese O’Sullivan, eldest
daughter of Judge G. J. O’Sullivan and
Mrs. O’Sullivan, of Cremorne, has
recently become engaged to architect
Bertil Andreasson, son of Dr. and Mrs.
Peter Andreasson, of Orebro, Sweden.
The engagement was announced at a
party held to celebrate the 30th wedding-
anniversary of Judge and Mrs. O’Sulli-
van. After the wedding at St. Mary’s
Cathedral in April next year the honey-
moon will be spent in Sweden, and the
young couple will make their home in
Sydney. Photo by Max Shepherd.
“Even in the busy life I now lead I find
time to read four or five books a week,”
said Mrs. E. W. Woodward, .speaking as
guest-of-honor at the annual meeting of
the Society of Women Writers. Coming
from the Governor’s wife, a lady with
perhaps the fullest programme in Sydney,
this should silence all those who bewail
the fact that they “never find time to
read.” Mrs. Woodward said that she
seldom reads a detective-story, but is
particularly interested in biography and
travel. Mrs. Gwen Morton Spencer,
president of the society, made the meeting
her first appearance since her recent illness
and Miss Kitty Archer-Burton assisted
her in welcoming the guest-of-honor.
ft ft ft
One of the features of the Australasian
Pioneers’ Club's at-home, held at the
clubrooms on Friday, was the delicious
buffet which had been prepared by one of
the members, Dr. Ralph Cilento, voted by
all present as “one of Australia’s most
brilliant amateur cooks.” Another
feature was the gay decor, flowers and
Christmas motifs, for which David Jones’
had been responsible. The 190 guests
were received by the new president, Mr.
B. P. MacFarlan, Q.C., and Mrs]
MacFarlan.
☆ ☆ ☆
Lampshades covered in tweed and
tartan and over 50 driftwood arrange-
ments —including a standing-lamp 15ft.
high—were exhibited and offered for
sale in aid of the Infants’ Home, Ashfield,
at the afternoon-party arranged by Mrs!
C. P. Johnson (Edgecliff) during the
week. Beautiful floral decorations had
been donated by Mrs. R. Instone, and
a musical programme had been provided
by Miss Joyce Trickett, who with her
husband, Mrs. Phillip Parry, and Miss Vi
Smith, was also responsible for the
driftwood arrangements.
* ☆ ☆
Huge colored bort-bons decorated the
Pickwick Club for the Christmas-party
in aid of the Royal N.S.W. Institution
for Deaf and Blind Children. Mrs. Bill
White, wearing a glamorous • dress of
white silk woven with beaten silver,
welcomed the guests, who included Mr.
and Mrs. R. Kerville, Mr. and Mrs.
Basil King (just back from a tour of
New Zealand) and Mrs. Winifred Mauer.
By the way, Mrs. E. Westwood, 0.8. E.
(who was present with her husband,
Major Westwood), said that she had
heard on very good authority that the
Queen’s ban on debutantes at Bucking-
ham Palace will not affect vice-regal
attitude here, as the Queen does not wish
the presentation of debs, to be altered
anywhere except at the Palace.
tr ft tr
A cheque for nearly £lOOO, proceeds
of the International Ball, was presented
to Mr. O. D. Oberg, the newly-elected
president of the U.N. Association, by
the president of the ball-committee, Mrs.
C. M. Guiney, at a cocktail-party given
at her home at The Astor, Macquarie
Street. At the party the Australian
national costumes specially designed for
the ball were displayed.
CANBERRA
The Prime Minister, Mr. Menzies, was
among the throng of guests in the main
reception-room at the Hotel Canberra
when the Associated Chambers of Manu-
factures entertained at buffet dinner visit-
ing delegates for the 54th annual confer-
ence held at Industry House. Guests
were welcomed by the president, Mr.
F. S. Vine, and Mrs. Vine, assisted by
director R. W. C. Anderson and his wife
—she chose a cocktail-frock in grey
chiffon. Lovely flower - arrangements
decorated the dinner-tables, which were
massed with glazed turkeys, baked
lobsters and sucking-pigs.
Among the heads of diplomatic missions
at this party were the High Commis-
sioner for South Africa, Mr. A. A. M.
Hamilton, and his wife (her charming
frock in silver-paper silk cut on princess-
lines, featured a pink rose on the hip);


the Royal Netherlands Ambassador and
Mme. Lovink, she in grey-patterned
nylon; the newly-arrived Minister for
Sweden, Mr. C. Bergenstrahle ; and, up
from Sydney, the High Commissioner for
Pakistan and Begum Yousuf; and the
French Ambassador and Mme. Renaud
Sivan —she smart in old-rose velv Wives
of delegates noted were Mrs. J. C.
Harkness and Mrs. D. Scott (Victoria);
Mrs. J. N. Walker (N.S.W.), elegant in
grey chiffon and lace; and the past-
president Mr. J. G. Hurley and Mrs.
Hurley.
Earlier the delegates’ wives were enter-
tained at afternoon-tea by Mrs. A. A. M.
Hamilton at her new home, South Africa
House.
MELBOURNE
Thanksgiving Day celebrations began
in Melbourne with a luncheon given the
day before by the Australian-American
Association at the Royale Ballroom, at
which American Ambassador W. J. Sebald
was guest-of-honor.
At the official table with association
president Sir John Latham (who was
accompanied by Lady Latham) were the
Premier and Mrs. Bolte (her mint-green
wool dress worn with a scarlet hat of
guardsman’s shape); U.S. Consul-General
Graham Hall and Mrs. Hall (the latter in
a frock of navy wool, an ermine stole
and a small hat of paisley-silk); Lord
and Lady Bruce ; and Mrs. R. G. Casey,
president of the women’s group of the
association (who chose a loose-jacketed
grey tweed suit and a smart scarlet bonnet
banded with black velvet). Table decora-
tions were most effective and included a
gold-painted cornucopia from which
mixed fruit spilled, and gold-painted
candles. Wheat-sheaves decorated the
smaller tables, and golden colors pre-
dominated in the flowers and foliage.
Other guests included Vice-Admiral
Sir Roy Dowling and Lady Dowling,
Lady Knox and her daughter Mrs. Robert
Lindsay, Air-Marshal and Mrs. F. R. W.
Scherger, Mrs. Rupert Downes, Sir
Arthur and Lady Warner, Mr. and Mrs.
W. A. Ince, Lady Kent Hughes, Sir Frank
and Lady Selleck, and Sir Douglas and
Lady Copland.
☆ ☆ ☆
A replica of the Paris House of Dior
provided the entrance for the seven
French mannequins who took part in
the Christian Dior parade at the Myer
Emporium. The official guests, who in-
cluded Lady Brooks and her niece
Miss Wendy Raphael, and French Am-
bassador M. Renaud Sivan and Mme.
Sivan, were greeted by the Myer Em-
porium’s managing-director Mr. A. H.
Tolley and Mrs. Tolley, deputy-chairman
and joint-manager Mr. Kenneth Myer and
Mrs. Myer, and merchandise-director
Mr. A. S. Hunt and Mrs. Hunt.
Others in the official party included
French Consul M- Cyril le Bas de
Plumetot and his wife; Federal Labor
Minister Harold Holt and Mrs.
Holt; Victorian Transport Minister
Sir Arthur Warner and Lady Warner ;
the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr.
and Mrs. F. W. Thomas); president of
St. Vincent’s Hospital Auxiliaries Mrs.
Leonard Buxton and Mr. Buxton ; Mrs.
Sidney Baillieu-Myer ; the director of the
Dior party, Mme. Suzanne Luling, and
its press-attache the Marquis de
Maussabre.
Lady Brooks wore a full-length gown
of aquamarine satin brocade and a
white-fox stole. Mrs. Holt’s long gown
of strapless flame chiffon had its own
matching full-length stole. Mrs. Sidney
Baillieu-Myer’s formal gown of white
organza was showered with appliques of
black Chantilly-lace motifs and finished
with a pink cummerbund. Mrs. A. G.
Silk’s short dress was worn with a match-
ing coat of white pure-silk shantung
printed with pink and green posies of
flowers.
☆ ☆ ☆
An informal party was held on Sunday
afternoon at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
Alwynne Rowlands, of Brighton, to give
their friends an opportunity to farewell
Mr. Rowlands before he leaves for Eng-
land on Friday.
A senior surgeon at the Alfred
Hospital, Mr. Rowlands will travel under
a Ralph Charles Brown scholarship and
will work in both London and Boston
hospitals. He expects to be away for
about five months.
Mrs. George White, wife of a well-
known Victorian grazier, is again presi-
dent of Mickleham and District Red
Cross, which branch she formed some
years ago when living on her husband’s
Craigieburn property. A member of Red
Cross for more than 20 years, and a
Fellow of the Royal Empire Society,
Mrs. White also belongs to the Country
Women’s Association, and is president of
the Hume Highway Group. Despite her
many activities she finds time for bowling
as a member of the Strathmore club, which
is handy to their Melbourne home, to
which she and her husband returned after
spending some years on a Goulburn
Valley property. Photo by John Warlow.
The weather kept up its reputation of
always being fine for Moonee Valley
races, although the Saturday fashion-
picture was somewhat a mixed one as
cloudy and cool conditions had prevailed
until midday.
Smart in a woollen dress and matching
jacket of chestnut-and-green chequers
was Mrs. Graham Hall, wife of the U.S.
Consul, who was having her first visit to
the Moonee Valley course. She was a
guest at the luncheon given before the
races by Lady Burston, wife of the club’s
chairman. Other guests included Mrs. H.
Bolte, wife of the Premier (her silk dress
was covered with a navy-blue corded-silk
coat, with which she wore a small, folded
beret of navy-blue silk), Lady Gullett,
Mrs. N. Robinson, Mrs. Rupert Downes,
Mrs. R. P. Willock, Lady Lienhop, Lady
Selleck, and Mrs. Ernest Hearne and
her daughter, Patricia, from Perth. Mrs.
A. J. Moir, wife of the vice-chairman of
the club, was another who chose a
woollen suit, hers being of apple-green,
and worn with a satin cloche of the same
color.
☆ * ☆
Perfect spring weather made the lovely
garden of Mrs. Charles Davidson’s
Toorak home an ideal setting for the
Thanksgiving Day party, which was the
first function arranged by the Junior
Group of the Australian-American
Association. Guests were received by
the president, Ronald Marriott, and vice-
presidents Jane Hennessy, Joy Allan,
Peter Tremayne and Andrew Gibbons at
the entrance to the garden, where fairy-
lights twinkled in the trees and gay
umbrellas over decorated tables added
splashes of color.
Traditional Thanksgiving Day food was
served, most of it prepared by the girls.
Male members did a wonderful job with
the decorations, which included wooden
turkeys realistically lacquered a rich
brown, and with garnishings of salad
vegetables. Members of the newly-formed
group, whose main objective is to raise
money to assist in the exchange of
students between America and Australia,
include Rodney Davidson and his sister,
Noel; Joy Donohue, Margaret Wood-
lock, Judith Storey, Joy Allen, Mary
Jane Griswold, Jerry Kinross and Robert
Coles, who acts as honorary secretary.
* ☆ *
Christmas fairs were held by several
charitable organisations on Saturday, and
reports indicate that their efforts were
most successful, many patrons evidently
finding the well-stocked stalls a pleasant
and leisurely medium for the purchase of
seasonal gifts.
At Hawthorn, the garden of Sir Owen
and Lady Dixon’s home was turned into
a colorful bazaar, and members of the
Gordon Group raised more than £2OO
for the Gordon Cottages for Boys.
Mrs. Walter Gheradin, whose husband is
committee president, and her fellow-
members, Mwyn and Megan Sheil, Mar-
garet Daley, Dr. Jan Finney, Mr. and
Mrs. Grey Wood and Merrin Cook (hon.
secretary), all had a busy but gratifying
time.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
"INTERDEPENDENCE"
TNTER DEPEN DENCE,
which has the blessing of
President Eisenhower and
Prime Minister Macmillan,
looks like becoming as popular
a slogan as “collective security,”
but whether the fears of
Russian scientific and military
advance will prove stronger
than the old forces of nation-
alism is very much open to the
kind of debate illustrated in the
following British press-com-
ment, and which will no doubt
be continued and intensified
with the approach of this
month’s meeting of the heads
of Nato Governments.
* * *
Lo n. don “Daily Tele-
graph” : “Ever since the end of
the war the nations of the free
world have accepted, at least in
theory, the need for working
together in the economic, tech-
nological, military and political
spheres. This is the philosophy
which has given birth to Nato,
Seato, the Baghdad Pact and
a dozen other lesser forms of
interdependence. But most of
these nations are still obsessed
with the formuke of the 18th
and 19th centuries. Like
Voltaire’s Candide, they
instinctively prefer to cultivate
their own gardens.
“What is the pressure which
has driven them to overcoming
that instinct? It has, of course,
been fear —fear of domination
by the Communist East. In its
crudest form that fear has been
military. The Soviet Union
still possesses vast conventional
forces which might at any
moment threaten to overwhelm
either Western Europe or
certain sectors of the Middle or
Far East. Until quite lately it
seemed that the technological
superiority of the West could
hold that threat at bay. Under
the umbrella of the ‘ultimate
deterrent’ the Atlantic Treaty
nations felt at liberty fo hoe
their own plots, and to quarrel
with their friends and
neighbors in the process.
“Fear began to reassert its
catalytic action when the Soviet
began to explode her hydrogen-
bombs. But the myth of
Western scientific pre-eminence
still prevailed and our cast of
national amateurs continued to
assert that it would be all right
on the night. Then came the
Soviet's claim to • possess an
intercontinental ballistic-’
missile, followed so soon by
the launching of the two
sputniks, clearly demonstrating
a technological supremacy
which can no longer be
shrugged off by easy talk of
propaganda. The Western
—London “Daily Mirror”
“WE ALWAYS SAID WE CANT GO IT ALONE, DIDN’T
WE, SELWYN? FOR INSTANCE AT SUEZ LAST YEAR ...”
gardeners have dropped their
spades and are staring up into
the sky.”
* * *
London “Daily Mai l” *
“Those who denounce it [inter-
dependence] are living in an
unreal world. The driving
force of this age is the
accumulation of power in large
areas of interdependence. It is
an era of alliances, world
unions and organisations.
U.N.0., Nato, Seato, the
Atlantic Alliance, Western
Union, the British Common-
wealth, the U.S.S.R. and the
People’s Democracies are all
examples of interdependence.
The Common Market, the Iron
and Steel Community, Gatt,
Oeec, the Colombo Plan, the
World Bank —all spell inter-
dependence.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian " ;
“The fact of interdependence is
no longer open to denial. What
matters now is that practical
conclusions should be drawn
from it. The Suez crisis made it
painfully obvious that the
periodical meetings of Foreign
Ministers do not guarantee the
essential minimum of agreed
purpose in the alliance. Last
December the North Atlantic
Council adopted some very
emphatic recommendations on
continuous political consulta-
tion among the members,
designed to achieve ‘the trans-
formation of the political com-
munity into a vital and vigor-
ous reality.’
“The Committee of Three,
which had framed these pro-
posals, insisted that it had not
been difficult to arrive at their
recommendations. But they
went on to say that what was
now required was, above all,
‘the will to carry this conviction
into the realm of practical
governmental policy.’ During
the next five months very little
evidence of such a will seems
to have become available.
When Lord Ism ay made his
final report to the North
Atlantic Council at its meeting
in May, he had this to say
about political co-operation:
“ ‘The practice of consulta-
tions in the Council has not yet
developed sufficiently to meet
the demands of political
changes and world trends.’
“This is probably as far as a
secretary-general can go to
indicate that there had been no
effective change from previous
pracTice.
“This is no great surprise.
The habits of independent
decision in separate Foreign
Offices which have behind them
an established practice often of
centuries are not going to be
changed so easily. In this sense
M. Spaak [the new secretary-
general of Nato] was right
when he spoke of a revolution
in the history of diplomacy. He
will probably find that the say-
ing ‘diplomacy is easy on the
brain but hell on the feet’ is
only too true.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scots m a n":
‘‘Unintentionally the Russians
have themselves produced this
new sense of resolution among
the Western allies. So long as
American public opinion felt
that the United States had
undisputed superiority in the
most modern weapons Ameri-
cans saw no urgent reason
why they should put their
heads together with the wisest
heads in Britain and other
countries. But now it is
different. There may still be
doubt whether American public
opinion does not lag behind
the opinion of American
leaders, but they at least seem
to be agreed that co-ordination
in defence both within and
without the United States has
become essential.
“The question is whether
politicians and peoples on the
Western side are prepared for
the sacrifice of sovereignty
involved in the rationalisation
of defence to which M. Spaak
looks forward.
“Do we trust each other
enough to permit one country
to become the centre of some
specific type of research on
behajf of all members of Nato?
Are we prepared to let one
country specialise in the pro-
duction of one item of equip-
ment? Can we make a fair
distribution of orders for war
material? Theoretically a
certain division of labor seems
to be called for, and this would
be the Tight course if it were
certain that the Nato countries
would always pursue common
ends.”
♦ * *
London “News Chronicle”:
“The forthcoming Nato meet-
ing is of immense importance.
Nato, for all its defects, is the
most effective instrument of
international co-operation that
exists. It is founded on
a genuine community of
interests.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post”: “The
question of sacrificing
sovereignty goes much deeper
than politics. With the Con-
servatives, a firm and justifiable
belief in the greatness of
Britain is an article of faith,
and there are many in the party
who will not yield an inch. It


A.P.M. HARVESTS SALT TO MAKE PAPER— (No. 10 of a Serbs)
••
9 mEM
Salt plays its part in Papermaking I
Salt sodium chloride is the basic raw
material for the manufacture of chlorine.
The papermaker uses chlorine to bleach
woodpulp which by nature is a dull brown
into a clean, white colour.
Caustic soda is a by-product of the manu-
facture of chlorine. It is used in the pulp
bleaching process and is also supplied to other
industries.
Therefore, it is easy to see why A.P.M.
Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd. should
operate salt works. A.P.M.’s salt works are
situated near Lake Alexandrina, in South
Australia.
By operating the salt works, A.P.M. assures
• constant supply of this essential material at
the lowest cost, thus contributing to the efficient
and economical production of high quality
A.P.M. paper and paperboard. *
The operation of the salt works has added
to Australia’s natural resources, especially as
A.P.M. salt goes to other industries, too.
This is but one way in which A.P.M.
Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd.
provides employment for Australian workmen,
and adds to Australia’s industrial capacity.
* The term paperboard embraces cardboard,
fibreboard and other heavyweight papers.
Basically the same raw materials are used
for paperboard and paper.
5 m *
Bay Australian Made
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale, Broadford in Victoria.
Botany, N.S.W.; Petrie, Queensland; and Bayswater, W.A.


Why your body
stays well
The greatest medical mystery
of all is that you stay well!
Read, in December Reader’s
Digest, how “built-in” safe-
guards make this possible.
Discover how nature provides
us with a miraculous system
of defences, which automatic-
ally destroys disease germs
that attack you daily.
In your December Reader’s
Digest you’ll find many articles
to interest you and increase
your knowledge, including a
gripping book condensation
Our Miss Rossie, How to deal with
your tensions, Is there a Loch
Ness monster? and 32 hours at
the edge of space the best
from the world’s leading
magazines and books, con-
densed to save you time.
Reader’s Digest only 2/-.
Telephone •
- INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the Brituh Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £19,800,000. Established 1835,
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
BW 8131 (4 lines) W. J, C. PENNELL, Manager.
can already be foreseen that
this is going to be the great
issue of this session, and
momentous events are just
round the corner which can
change the whole political
scene.”
* * *
London “Economist
“Public opinion is uneasily
aware that something should
be done and quickly. Naturally,
it would like whatever is done
to be both spectacular and
painless. Eyes turn instinctively
to what might be expected from
the other fellow. British
enthusiasm fastens on the need
for America to share its
military secrets; Frenchmen
worry lest the sharing may
remain an Anglo-Saxon affair.
Continental members of the
alliance hope that inter-
dependence will halt the British
Army’s retreat from the
Rhine; they are slower to
draw the conclusion that it also
means the end of their attempts
to maintain each his own self-
sufficient army, navy and air-
force. The idea of a joint
programme for channelling
American and perhaps German
funds into economic develop-
ment meets with general
enthusiasm—except in America
and Germany.
“The hard fact remains that
nothing short of whole-hog
federation would enable a
group of democratic States to
formulate and stick to a single,
comprehensive foreign policy
—and even federation might
fail to impose on them a real
unity in domestic policy. A
true common policy must be
based on more than treaties.
The Government that lends its
signature to a treaty may fall,
or be chivvied into tacitly
revoking it by Opposition
leaders skilled in exciting
nationalistic feelings. In
present circumstances, to insist
that the Western allies should
pledge themselves to total uni-
formity of policy is to pursue
a treacherous illusion.
“What they in fact need to
do is to struggle—and it will
be a long struggle—for the
closest possible alignment of
policy. This may seem a more
modest goal, but it is still hard
— N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
PLEASANT DREAM
to reach. Its lack of dramatic
appeal is a particular weakness.
Lip-service, at least, can easily
be mustered for plans to
‘capture the initiative from
Russia’ in various spectacular
but fictional ways. It is much
less easy to create and main-
tain the momentum needed to
carry forward a practicable
programme—a piecemeal and
unimpressive programme, that
is—of closer Allied co-opera-
tion. Yet that is what needs
to be done, and without delay.
Half - measures may lack
glamor, but this is their hour.
Somehow the fatal fascination
of the ideal and the unattain-
able, of crash programmes and
bids to outdo Mr. Khrushchev
by riding off in all directions,
has got to be set aside and
attention focused on what is
practicable and urgent.
“In the long perspective of
the years, if the threat to free-
dom remains unabated, the
minds of free men may well
adjust themselves to the idea of
total union and truly common
policies. But today that best
is the enemy of the good ; and
in clutching at that shadow we
may let the substance out of
our grasp.”
Soviet Science
London “Time and Tide”
discounting the notion that the
sputniks are “evidence that the
Russians are ahead of the
Americans in scientific achieve-
ment” —they are, in fact, “an
illustration of what has been
the curse of Russian economic
planning ever since the revolu-
tion”:
“In 1917 Russia was fda-
tively undeveloped, though
nothing like so backward as the
Communists now like to pre-
tend. When a country is to be
brought forward to the
standards of the most
advanced countries, the
sensible priorities are: first
transport; secondly, agricul-
ture ; and, thirdly, industry.
That is not to say that these
should go in series, one, two,
three, but the emphasis initially
should be on transport. Neither
large-scale manufacture nor
large-scale food-production can
be economic if there is not a
sufficient transport-system for
the cheap and easy conveyance
of the goods. Raising the
efficiency of agriculture is the
second necessity, for large-scale
industry must draw workers
from the land and the same
amount of food, or more, must
be produced by fewer hands.
“In these respects the Soviet
planners have sinned grievously
against the economic light. It
is not so long since Mr.
painted a disas-
trous picture of Russian agri-
culture, with no more cattle
than in 1917 in spite of a large
increase of population. Many
of the streets of Moscow are
still unpaved and there are
collective farms miles from any
road. The road from Poland
to Moscow is 650 miles long;
there are five petrol-stations on
the way.
“Russian building is shoddy
to a degree. Russia is in much
greater need of competent
bricklayers than of compe-
tent physicists. In short,
Russian economic development
is grossly out of phase. It is
the besetting temptation of
uneasy- dictatorships to go in
for the grandiose instead of the
useful and humdrum. Regret-
tably, the new colored nation-
alism has the same vice, which
accounts for a good part of
India’s economic difficulties.
“The contrast with the
United States is striking. There
is no good reason to doubt the
American experts who say they
could have put up a satellite
ahead of the Russians if they
had been prepared to disturb
their pattern of all-round
development. American superi-
ority over the whole picture,
not merely in an occasional
highlight, was clearly illustrated
just about the time Sputnik I
began circling the earth. A
conference was called in Vienna
to consider the first fruits of


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:--*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—*
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Eisenhower’s ‘atoms for peace’
campaign. The Americans
offered 50,000 kilogrammes of
enriched uranium to the world;
the Russians offered 50.
“That is one part of the
answer to the alarmist talk,
which gives great satisfaction
in the Kremlin but can only
confuse and darken counsel
among the free peoples of the
world.”
Talking with Russia
Commenting on one of
Aneurin Bevan’s speeches in the
U.S. in which he urged the
West to try to find ways “to
communicate with the Rus-
sians,” Baltimore (U.S.A.)
“Sun” doubts that there was
“any time in history when,
regardless of the form of
autocracy currently in being in
Russia, there was ever much
communication”:
“ ‘The control of thought,’
says Professor S. R. Tomkins,
‘has at all times been assumed
to be a necessary function of
government in Russia.’ For
five centuries Western envoys
have complained of the distance
and suspicion with which they
were treated, of spying and
censorship.
“For a large part of Russia’s
modern history the import of
foreign books has been for-
bidden. Scholars had been
wandering from university to
university in the West for a
thousand years when the first
young Russians were sent to be
educated. abroad by Boris
Godunov. Russia was almost
alone in the pre-World-War-I
era in requiring passports of
visitors.”
On the same subject—talking
with Russia —and commenting
on Mr. Khrushchev’s call for a
“summit meeting” between
East and West, “Yorkshire
Post” adds that “again and
again we [the West] have tried
to thrash things out with them
but again and again they have
made it obvious that they are
not prepared to concede any
Point, modify any attitude, or
translate into action any of the
professions about which they
are so glib.
“Discussions that fail are
Worse than no discussions at all.
It is far better to wait until
some evidence is forthcoming
that summit talks might yield
results. No such evidence has
Vet been given by the men of
the Kremlin. It is the old story
deeds and not words.
“Mr. Selwyn Lloyd [British
Foreign Secretary] listed four
points on which the Soviet
Union might take some action
that would ease the cold war.
He said they should stop seek-
ing to undermine us through-
out the world ; stop the cam-
paign to increase tension in the
Middle East; stop making
propaganda out of their deci-
sions on disarmament; stop
using the United Nations
simply as a platform for attack-
ing the West.
“On every one of these heads
it requires but a lift of Mr.
Khrushchev’s finger to achieve
results. Britain and the United
States are ardently anxious to
establish peace on a firm and
lasting basis. They would
jump at the prospect of a real
settlement with Russia. But
Russia must understand that
she is not the only country that
feels it has vital interests to
defend and is capable of doing
so.”
Suez
London “Financial Times”
comment on the proposed trans-
formation of the Suez Canal
Company into a “French
investment company,” with
the directors “free to employ
its large resources in any
venture —a Channel tunnel, for
example which happens to
attract them”:
“The company has assets out-
side Egypt of some 76,000-
million francs, more than
enough to cover the current
market-prices of its shares
without reference to the claim
for compensation. Liquidation
rather than metamorphosis is
what shareholders might be
expected to push for.
“There are, of course,
practical arguments against
immediate liquidation The
claim against Egypt has still to
be settled, and about half of
the cash and investments held
outside Egypt are still pro-
visionally blocked. But these
arguments add up to a case
for keeping the company in
existence until it can be
wound up tidily, not for
endowing the directors with
sweeping new powers to spend
its resources as they please.
“The acquiescence of the
British Government in the
board’s proposals is the
strangest feature of the whole
business. The Government
holds 44 per cent, of the
canal company’s capital. It
has not seen to it that the
new voting procedure gives it
the effective control a holding
of the size should command.
It has succeeded in keeping
only one British businessman
on the new board. Yet it is pre-
pared to see the company
turned into a French investment
trust —a trust which shows
every sign of wishing to
develop French North Africa
with money belonging to the
British Government. It is all
very odd.”
Various Voices
Field - Marshal Viscount
Montgomery: “Whichever way
you look at it, the Western
Alliance must be able to use
the major oceans and seas. A
revolutionary advance in naval
warfare is definitely coming,
brought about by nuclear
power. The danger of aggres-
sion in the Nato area is remote,
because of what has been
achieved in building up military
strength in the Western
Alliance.”
* * *
D. W. M. Scott (the Bradford
Textile Society’s president): “If
President Eisenhower sneezes,
Wall Street rocks, the London
Stock Exchange quakes, and
even a ripple may be seen on
’Change in Bradford—all tnis,
mark you, before the Presi-
dent’s secretary has had time to
say ‘Bless you!’ ”


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Offices GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, G, GORDON RUSSELL, A. MURRAY JONES,
HUGH DIXSON.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
* J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Bring Out the Bodies
It is surprising that the
report of the Australian
Academy of Science, as
reviewed in “Scientists Sound-
off” (B. 20/11/’57), does not
recommend an immediate
census of scientists and tech-
nologists employed in Aus-
tralia. The size of groups
tucked away in various
Government departments is
astonishing.
If such a census included
details of individual duties it,
would at once reveal consider-'
able duplication of functions
and services.
Although the Australian
output of graduates ' and
diplomates in pure science is
lower in population proportions
than in other countries, the
technical colleges continue to
churn - out, at maximum
capacity, mechanical, electrical,
chemical and structural
engineers and architects. It is
the standard of training and
subsequent distribution which
is cockeyed.
Loder’s legion from the
Department of Works would
make an impressive march in
any city, while Beale’s
Bombardiers from Supply can
muster a couple of regiments
at short notice. The growth
of the male population at
Woomera indicates that each
officer at Salisbury has an
opposite-number on the range.
There is a triple alliance when
Maralinga erupts.
Incidentally, Salisbury was
the one permanent filling
factory in Australia. The
opportunity was available to
transfer weapons - research
wallahs to Woomera and hand
the factory back for its
designed function when St.
Mary’s was under considera-
tion. The elimination of one
of these dual establishments
could well be reviewed by the
Public Accounts Committee.
The C.5.1.R.0. carries a very
large staff. The States dupli-
cate many of the Common-
wealth’s activities in their
various research institutes.
State geologists are spread over
the continent. In many cases
they cover the same territory
at the same time as geologists
from mining companies and
the private geophysical-survey
groups.
The Playford Government
“ Penelope—you're unique!”
has quickly recognised this
stupid procedure ; it has been
announced that negotiations
were proceeding to have a
separate body formed, financed,
staffed and controlled by the
State and Commonwealth
Governments and major mining
companies to avoid future
duplication of effort in this
particular field.
Unlike the Russian system,
it is not in our make-up to
dictate where a man shall labor,
but at least Government shows
could withdraw gracefully
when the field is already
adequately and efficiently
covered. Frustration which
drives our qualified men to
seek permanent foreign
pastures must be eliminated.
As for our future needs there
are too many poorly equipped
schools allegedly teaching to
graduate and diplomate
standards. They can never
turn out worth-while material.
Some zoning of faculties and
resources is necessary to ensure
maximum utilisation of the
best equipment with the finest
teaching ability—the R.A.A.F.
had the zoning system of
centres of instruction well
sewn-up in the last war, and
the plan proved a winner.—
Old Opencut (S.A.).
Who Makes Delinquents?
Some pointed comments on
the responsibility for juvenile
delinquency have been made
by Victoria’s Chief Commis-
sioner of Police (Mr. S. H.
Porter), who said that much of
the criticism directed at young
people was unjustified, and
asked: “Should we not have
a shot at the adults who are
really responsible for much of
the wrong direction of youth?”
“At least we can say,” he
added, “that it is not juveniles
who make slot-machines and
jukeboxes, who present porno-
graphic literature and horror
publications, or who manu-
facture liquor which is served
to teenagers.”
He stated that members of
the police-force had repeatedly
told him that the efforts of
youth leaders were nullified by
poor regard for the law in
many families, including, in
some cases, the well-to-do.
There is more truth in Mr.
Porter’s remarks than many of
us care to admit. Many
instances of juvenile crime have
been traced directly to the
influence of sordid reading-
matier.and films. In spite of a
good deal of agitation against
ihe importation and distribu-
tion of horror comics,
magazines emphasising the
unsavory aspects of sex, and the
like, this debasing rubbish is
still being sold. For this the
adult community is responsible
—particularly that section
which profits from trafficking
m the nauseating stuff.
As for parental control and
example, it is undeniable that
much juvenile delinquency
springs directly from lack of
proper family - life, from
parents taking little or no
interest in their children’s
activities, and from sheer force
of bad example by the elders.
If a parent shows little or no
respect for the law or for the
rights of others, how can he
expect his offspring to grow up
law-abiding citizens? Yet it is
not uncommon for a father to
admit, when his son is charged
with vandalism or some similar
misdemeanor, that he has no
control over the lad.
Even the State, which makes
the laws and tries to have them
enforced, falls down badlv in
its duty towards youth. While
it attempts to inculcate habits
of thrift and an honest attitude
towards work, the State
openly promotes gambling and
encourages the “money-for-
nothing” creed through State-
sponsored lotteries which are
the very antithesis of thrift and
commonsense.
How can we blame youth
for succumbing to the tempta-
tions that are put in its path by
the adult community?
—D.J.G. (Vic.).
Dutch New Guinea
The Australian press gives
unwitting support to Indo-
nesian propaganda by constant
references to Indonesia’s
“claim” to Dutch New
Guinea.
I’ve always understood that
a claim is something which is
based upon some form of legal
or moral right, but it has been
pointed out, again and again,
that the Indonesian demands
cannot be justified on legal,
political, moral, ethnological
or any other grounds.
The use of the word “claim,”
therefore, in reference to an


Black-and-white snapshots, colour movies
and slides - come out best on
Kodak Film
NOW is picture time!
KODACHROME Colour Film
For slides in exciting colour, Koda-
chrome is the world's favourite colour
film! In sizes K 135 and KB2B.
New Kodak Film
VERICHROME PAN
Your favourite film—now better than
•ver —for better pictures in any light
•nd all weatherl
Kodak TRI-X Film
The super-speed film that gets thos*
"difficult" pictures. (Not recommended
for box-type cameras in bright sunlight.)
Cine-Kodak
KODACHROME Film
Captures "your world" in life-like full
colour movies. Available in 8 mm, and
16 mm.
EALERS EVERYWHERE
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.
Branches in all States.
KSIS
impudent demand is far too
great a compliment to the
claimant. It seems to have
encouraged Indonesia to pursue
the tactics adopted by Hitler
and Mussolini —of maintaining
a wail for anything until others
mistake the noise for your
right.—Pip Tok (W.A.).
Australia and the U.S.
I meant just what I said
when I wrote that the American
workingman takes home three
times the pay of his Australian
counterpart (B. 20 /11 / ’57),
and 1 was being conservative,
too.
This is how I would grade
the countries of the world by
standards of living: the U.S.A.,
Canada, Sweden, South Africa
(so far as the whites are con-
cerned), New Zealand, Aus-
tralia more-or-less on a par
with Great Britain, followed
by Germany, France, Belgium
and Switzerland. One can go
down the list to the crawling
misery of the Middle East,
India and China.
1 know that the value of a
man’s pay-packet is its purchas-
ing-power where he lives. I
have a sister-in-law in Chicago.
Before her marriage she earned
$6O a week as a seamstress.
Full board and lodging cost
her $l5 a week—one-quarter
of her pay. She took a flat of
about 12 squares in an area
which cost her $lO a week.
What girl in Sydney living by
herself and earning £l2 could
rent a flat for £2? For that
matter, what married man
could?
I have a brother-in-law in
Canada. They started having
children right away. He works
in the bush as a lumberjack.
His pay is $350 a month. It
costs him not more than $lOO
to live. He is putting $250 a
month in the bank.
In Australia, unless a young
man inherits £5OOO or wins the
lottery, his pay (average £l4-
£lB clear of tax) is totally
insufficient to keep himself
and his wife and to have any
children. I know that people
have children just the same,
but I also know how they live.
One can take a drive round
Sydney and visit the many
salubrious hostels, housing-
commission settlements and
caravan-parks. The abominable
camp at Chullora (N.S.W.) is
a disgrace, and yet the people
living in it are all good citizens
working for what are called
good wages. These unfortu-
nates will never be properly
housed unless the apathy of
the Government can be shaken.
Were the American
mortgage-system adopted the
housing shortage could be
ended, but naturally there is no
question of it. Briefly, if a
house costs $lO,OOO to erect
the bank lends $10,150, the
odd $l5O being for legal
expenses. Interest-rates are
low. When I was starting to
build my house Rural Bank
officials laughed at me for
daring to ask for £2lOO ; the
most they allowed on my type
of house, they said, was £1720,
and even then they would not
give it to me. Afterwards I
got my £2lOO from a building-
society, but the experience was
a souring one. My house costs
me a third of my pay to run.
In short, people in Australia
are not allowed to live at all if
they are poor.
So far as the Colombo Plan
is concerned it would be best
to stop educating Asiatics at
the public expense and con-
centrate on rebuilding the
armed forces. It is pitiful that
a country which boosts itself
so much on the international
scene can only afford to main-
tain a single battalion in the
field.
The Americans are rich and
have lots of money to give
away. But they give it to the
wrong countries Formosa,
India, South Vietnam, the
Philippines, Saudi Arabia,
Contrast the $4OO million
South Vietnam has received


with the refusal to give a single
fighter - plane to Australia.
Saudi Arabia has received a
complete armored division
from President Eisenhower (to
make trouble for us in the
Persian Gulf), but Australia
has got nothing. H. A. F.
(N.S.W.).
We agree with A. H. R. Cann
that the American worker does
not get three times as much
for the same work as an Aus-
tralian —only twice as much.
We do not agree, however,
that the American is not so
well off when it comes to
shelter. In the U.S. one of us
rented a furnished house with
two friends four years ago for
$35 a month. Here we are in a
similar position in a similar-
sized house for 14 guineas a
week approximately $3l.
This is close enough to four
times as much. This sort of
discrepancy is generally true
for all but fair-rented dwell-
ings (in these the landlord is
as unjustly treated as the
tenant in the others). In
addition to this, of course,
there is the absurd difficulty of
getting decent accommodation
in Australia’s large cities.
A fully winterised house
comparable in size, appoint-
ments and suburb to a £5OOO
house in Australia would cost
$14,000 in the U.S. Now, using
your wage - comparison of
about £22 10s. to $lOO, it takes
the Australian roughly 4| years’
salary to buy the house. It
takes the American close
enough to three years’ salary.
The main thing to consider
in any country is how much is
left over after the same
essentials are paid for. Housing
costs less for the American,
and food and clothing approxi-
mately the same (a £26 suit
in Australia costs $lOO in the
U.S.); steak is less here, but
ham and chicken less there. By
the way, using New York to
compare food prices is very
misleading—it is easily the
most expensive U.S. city in
which to live. All this means
that the American has more
left for non-essentials.
Regardless of this, however,
the crushing point is the vast
difference in cost of non-
essentials. Cars that are literally
on the junk-heap over there
are selling here for £5OO.
Refrigerators, washing-
machines and all other electri-
cal goods are less than half
the price. Similar comparisons
can be made for almost the
entire range of luxury goods.
If you agree that the
“luxuries” of life are largely
what make it worth living,
the American makes twice as
much as the Australian. —T.
Stee and R. Munnings
(N.S.W.).
N.Q. Capital
Can’t agree with “H.G.L.”
(B. 13/11/ ’57) that Cooktown
should be the capital for the
new State of North Queensland.
There is a tendency to think
that any capital must be on a
port and close to the site of
future industrial development,
but this idea is not favored by
many economic geographers
and town - planners. The
modern idea of a capital city
“Carpets are much more trouble than Wall-to-Wall felt.”
envisages administration and
the control of State affairs.
This can be done just as well
at a distance as from a box-
seat on a coalfield or near large
steel-mills.
Many of the capitals of the
world are removed from
industry and a view of lhe
ocean and are none the worse
for it. In an age of constant
aerial danger in war-time, many
are beginning to doubt the
wisdom of linking the capital
with trade and commerce. It
increases the potential loss of
life from aerial bombing, as
the population is pyramided by
the addition of administration
upon industry.
My choice for North Queens-
land would be Atherton, on the
Tableland behind Cairns. This
would be an ideal site for the
proposed new capital. It has an
abundant supply of soft water,
an assured rainfall and is
surrounded by farm - lands
which would ensure a plentiful
supply of vegetables, milk, eggs
and other basic foodstuffs.
Living would be cheaper
because freights on these com-
modities would be negligible.
There is plenty of land
available for light secondary
industries which do not tend to
mushroom and spawn aggrega-
tions of inferior houses and,
finally, slums. If “H.G.L.”
wishes to keep the proposed
capital in close contact with the
potential of the peninsula,
Atherton would still fill the bill.
A highway inland from the
York to the new capital would
suffer less in the heavy “wets”
than one skirting the rain-
lashed coast.
The all-weather drome at the
adjacent town of Mareeba
would provide the necessary air-
link with the northern capital.
Mareeba has one of the finest
dromes in the State, yet it is
idle, mainly because there is
not enough population to sup-
port it. Planes from here shared
the brunt of the attack in the
Battle of the Coral Sea.
The recently opened Tully
Falls Hydro Scheme would
give the new capital all the
electricity it wanted and the
Tinaroo Dam would provide
more than enough water.
Atherton before Cooktown
every time. — Bilwon (Q.).
Preferential Voting
Further to that Service
Department answer (B.
13/11/ ’57), the position so far
as Commonwealth elections are
concerned is as follows:
Under section 135 (8) of the
Commonwealth Electoral Act,
if, in a Senate election, two or
more candidates have an equal
number of votes on any count
and one of them has to be
excluded, the Commonwealth
Electoral Officer is required to
decide which shall be excluded.
If, at the time of their election,
two or more candidates have an
equal number of votes, the
Commonwealth Electoral
Officer is to decide the order of
election of the candidates and
the order of the transfer of
their surplus votes. If in the
final count for filling the last
vacancy, two candidates have
an equal number of votes, the
Commonwealth Electoral
Officer is required to decide by
his casting vote which
candidate shall be elected.
Section 136 (7) provides that
if, in a House of Representa-
tives election, two or more
candidates have an equal
number of votes on any count
and one of them has to be
excluded, the Divisional
Returning Officer is required to
decide which shall be excluded.
If in the final count two
candidates have an equal
number of votes, the Divisional
Returning Officer is required to
decide by his casting vote
which shall be elected.
It follows from the fore-
going that where the Com-
monwealth Electoral Officer or
a Divisional Returning Officer
has to give a decision or
exercise a casting vote, he is
lree to make up his mind as he
pleases and is not required to
decide by lot.—J. Q. Ewens,
Parliamentary Draftsman,
Canberra.
Mug Punters
If the advertisements in
various periodicals are any
indication, there must be a lot
of money to be made selling
betting-systems.
There is one system for sale
for the small amount of 20s.
which promises an average
annual profit of £3OOO, or £6O
per week. There is also a book
of 60 systems which you can
buy for a humble fiver ; one of
these systems allegedly returned
a profit of over £BOOO in 12
months.
It’s remarkably generous of
the inventors of these systems
to sell them so cheaply, and
this no doubt explains why so
‘many bookmakers are on the
breadline.— Eureka (N.S.W.).


FELT AND TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
HEAD OFFICE: Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne.
REGISTERED OFFICE: Feltex House, 261 George
Street, Sydney.
PLANTS: Victoria, New South Wales, South Australia, Western Australia, Tasmania and Queensland, South Africa
and New Zealand.
EXTRACTS FROM THE 1957 ANNUAL REPORT
([For the year ended 30th June, 1957)
MANUFACTURING ACTIVITIES
Wool scourers and carbonisers, wool combers and
dyers, topmakers, yam spinners, manufacturers of
woollen and worsted cloths, men’s and boys’ outer
clothing, woollen and liair felts, felt floorcoverings
and carpets, flocks and waddings, plastics and
women’s, men’s and children’s slippers and shoes.
CONSOLIDATED SALES
£35,729,042.
Australian export sales exceeded £4,000,000, an
increase of almost £1,000,000 over previous year.
CONSOLIDATED NET PROFIT (after tax)
£1,070,406, of which £382,490 was attributable to
Minority Shareholders in Subsidiary Companies
and £687,916 to the Company, an increase of
20% over previous year. Return on ordinary
capital was 16.4% compared with 13.4% last year.
DIVIDEND
Dividend on Ordinary Capital was maintained
at 10%.
DEVELOPMENT AND EXPANSION
Felt & Textiles of South Africa Ltd. became a
subsidiary during the year, when the Parent
Company increased its shareholding in that
company to 50.1 %.
Robert Young Pty. Ltd., a wholesale distributing'
house, was acquired during the year and has been
developed into a national selling organisation for
felts and floorcoverings in Australia.
Development of Plastics Division continued, and
production of printed film will commence in
current half-year.
Development continued in other divisions in line
with latest overseas technologies.
AUSTRALIAN OPERATIONS
Profits derived from operations in Australia were
lower principally because of the falling-off in
house building and automotive industries follow-
ing the Government’s credit restriction policies,
which affected several of the industries in which
the company is engaged. Very satisfactory returns
were achieved by the Wool and Footwear
Divisions. Profits earned from Australian opera-
tions after tax and the exclusion of Minority
Shareholders’ Interests amounted to £446,148.
SOUTH AFRICAN OPERATIONS
The South African Company experienced a very
satisfactory year, and profit achieved was highest
in history of the company—3l% return on
Ordinary Capital. The Australian company’s
share of profits amounted to £194,329 (Aust.).
NEW ZEALAND OPERATIONS
In first half of year trading conditions were diffi-
cult, but profits were maintained at previous year’s
level —15% return on Ordinary Capital. The
Australian company’s share of profits amounted
to £47,439 (Aust.).
CONSOLIDATED FIXED ASSETS
Capital Expenditure during year £780,055.
Depreciation written off during the year £549,982.
During year Australian land and buildings were
revalued and written up by £1,032,998. Obsolete
plant and related Assets in Australia amounting
to £463,782 were written off. Both of these entries
were reflected in the Capital Reserves of the
company.
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS
£11,049,646 —an increase of £1,169,560 over
previous year in Reserves and Unappropriated
Profits.
Net Asset backing per £1 share: —•
Preference .. .. £7 7 4
Ordinary .. .. £2 10 3
YEAR ENDING 30th JUNE, 1958
Results to date are satisfactory and are greater
than those for the corresponding period last year.


moor
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
’S
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
■
m
i
m
V
■
■
.
ii
ESTABLISHED 1884
BARBED WIRE
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg'd Office and Works, Blackwall Ft. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
ORANGE FIELD DAY
LEAVING Sydney baking in
steel and concrete
between foot-hills and sea
and Climbing over the
Smoking Blue Mountains,
where bushfires were advancing
like an army of many divisions,
it was a bit of a shock to be
blasted by cold winds at
When marking lambs
it is advisable to start
operations early in
the day to give the
lambs plenty of time
to “mother up” after
the treatment. The
use of Elastrator
Rubber Rings rather
than the knife is also
advisable.
Orange on the afternoon before
the field-day or, more
correctly, field-days. This year,
for the first time, it was spread
over three days.
The annual festival of agri-
cultural equipment, know-how,
machinery and sales-talk that
is known as the Orange Field
Day had its beginnings in this
central-western district of
N. S. Wales a few years back,
when some local farmers and
graziers, talking about shows,
were struck by the fact that
these hadn’t changed much
since the days when they were
driving horse - teams ... It
is now generally conceded
that the Orange Field Day is of
national importance.
It was still cold, with a wind
blowing acres of dust, on the
Tuesday, the first day, and
these conditions doubtless kept
a good many people away.
About 5000 turned up at the
site —a portion of two proper-
ties, Mrs. E. Cantrill’s Hazel-
dean, and B. McNabb’s All-
wood, on the Forbes road —on
the Tuesday, and on the
Wednesday there were around
12,000: which, as someone
remarked, wasn’t bad, in the
middle of a drought, with bush-
fires just down the road, near
Bathurst. On the third day an
estimated 11,000 attended the
field-day.
H. W. Bucknell, president of
A. R. Jackson (left) and D. G. Christie, N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture veterinary officers, demon-
strating an important part of the control of hydatids—
dosing all dogs on the farm at regular intervals.
the N. S. Wales Graziers’
Association, opened the field-
day and presented the pennants
to winners of the new-
lmplement awards. He said he
hadn’t seen anything compar-
able to the display of agri-
cultural machinery at Orange
in any part of the world he had
visited, and complimented the
Orange branch of the
Graziers’ Association for put-
ting on such a show. It is,
when one thinks about it, a
remarkable achievement, and
a repeated one.
One sees familiar faces
among the committee each sue-
cessive year. Bob Crossing, for
instance, a local grazier, was
chairman of the field-day com-
mittee last year and the year
before, and was active on the
committee again this year.
Hugh Jackson, another grazier,
was chairman of the first com-
mittee, and chairman again this
year. And others, graziers and
local machinery men, who have
continued to organise what the
State president of the Graziers’
Association described as the
best thing of its kind he had
seen, anywhere.
Mr. Bucknell went on to
stress the importance of


NOTHING EQUALS
|H Warmray's Amazing Efficiency H
w arrnray
TRIPLE-PURPOSE, SLOW-COMBUSTION,
AIR-CONDITIONING HOME HEATER
Model No. 3
Super De Luxe
JL- large Capacity
Over 8,000
cu. ft.
Special large
firebox for long
burning without
attention.
Extra large
hotplate for
cooking.
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray"
ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING
Model No. 2A
Heats onr 5,000
cu. ft.
Modern artistlo
cream porcelain
enamel on solid cast
Iron.
•jr No dirty fireplaces
to clean.
X Full view of blazing
fire through open
or closed front.
X Lights in seconds
warms entire room
in minutes.
X No smoke or dust to
soil furnishings.
★ Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
Your appreciation of
siass»*“wj
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL—REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
• «* «m
WARMRAY
HEATING TUBES
The secret of Warmray’s Amazing: Efficiency is
the Patented Heating: Tubes (Illustrated above),
which are built into the firebox. The aIT in the
room passes through these tubes continuously,
thus maintaining an even warmth In every part
of the room.
JL BURNS ALL SOLID FUELS
* WOOD IS CLEANEST.
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
BUT NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors,
Challls House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: ‘‘Warmray/’ BL 2217.
If unobtainable locally, phone, write or call
for illustrated Brochure and name of nearest
agents.
primary production to national
development, and the necessity
of team-work among primary
producers. His definition of
“primary producer” included
miners and fishermen —a good
point.
Also present, Jack Davey,
who, apparently, had been
roped-in to provide a dash of
humor. It must have been
hard to be funny, perched up
there on the tray of a truck
surrounded by recording gear
and cameras, dressed for
summer, with an icy wind
blowing dust and spitting rain
in your face and —as Jack
said —“not being very farm-
minded,” anyway. Especially
if a rock had gone through the
sump of your car getting there.
Like a good trouper, he did his
best.
Chief interest at the opening
ceremony centred around the
“new - implement” awards.
These, introduced by the field-
day committee for the first time
last year, have already created
their own prestige. The awards
are similar in intention to
awards made 4n overseas
countries, but there is nothing
of the kind anywhere else in
Australia. Selection is the job
of a panel of independent
experts —the Dean of the
Faculty of Mechanical
Engineering at Sydney Uni-
versity of Technology, Profes-
sor Willis, is one member —the
event is non-competitive, and
any number of awards may be
made in any one year.
What it amounts to is a seal
of approval granted by the
Orange Field Day committee
under certain conditions to the
sponsors of any agricultural
machinery freely marketed for
the first time in Australia dur-
ing the 12 months before the
field-day, although previously
unavailable here.
The machine must be a com-
plete unit, must perform some
agricultural job for which a
machine had not been available
formerly in Australia, or,
alternatively, must contain
within itself some new principle
or method of working.
These conditions have a
double-barrelled effect. They
encourage the importation of
useful machinery, or its manu-
facture here under licence, and
they encourage local inventions.
What seems to have happened
since the first awards is that the
granting of an award practically
guarantees that the machinery
will be widely distributed: the
benefit of this to the small
manufacturer-inventor or the
farmer-inventor is obvious.
And, of course, there is a con-
siderable benefit to the com-
munity.
This year 30 entries were
received for the new-implement
award, and six implements were
given awards. Of. these, two
were joint-awards—that is to
say, two different entrants were
given an award for two imple-
ments.
Bill Dun, of Tresilian and
Dun Pty., Ltd., Grenfell, went
up to receive the award for the
Simpson wool-press attach-
ment, and protested that he
shouldn’t really be there, as he
wasn’t the inventor. Jim Simp-
son, a Grenfell farmer and
Jim Simpson (left) and Bill Dun, with the Simpson
wool-press attachment which won a new-implement
award.


PORT LINE LTD
Regular Sailings—Fast and Modern Vessels.
Taking Wool, Refrigerated and General Cargo to United
Kingdom, American and Canadian Forts.
Limited number of passengers carried.
:
Vi
m.
m
mmmfm
AGENTS—
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Brisbane, Newcastle, Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
TASMANIAN WOOLGROWERS’ AGENCY CO. LTD., Launceston.
AUSTRALIAN ESTATES CO. LTD., North Queensland ports.
WEST AUSTRALIAN SHIPPING ASSOCIATION LTD., Fremantle
Head Office in Australia:
PORT LINE LTD.
(Inc. in England)
Chadsworth House, 1-7 Bent Street, Sydney.
New Zealand: Maritime Building, Wellington.
grazier, was photographed later,
with his implement. It is a
gadget designed to take the
hard work out of pressing, and,
looking at it, one wonders why
it hadn’t been thought of long
ago. It had been —by Mr.
Simpson. But a number of
intricate problems had to be
ironed-out before it reached its
present form,
A compact unit, it can be
fitted to most presses, and can
compress a bale of wool at
5001 b. to the square-inch in
from two to three minutes. An
efficient use of gears allows the
job to be done with as low a
power as that supplied by a
one-h.p. electric or petrol
motor. Apart from a saving in
manpower, it is claimed that
there is a saving in time, bales
and transport-costs.
A joint-award was given for
the Lam-Bar and Calfeteria,
entered by New Zealand
Pasture Implements and their
Sydney agents, the Daken
Corporation. The inventor,
K. G. Schoeffel, was there to
collect the award personally. In
fact, he’s been at every Orange
Field Day this writer has
attended. He’s managing-
director of the old-established
firm of Welch, Perrin, distri-
butors of agricultural equip-
ment, and is also a very keen
and progressive farmer at
Menzies Creek (Vic.), where he
runs a quality dairy-herd and
goes in for pasture-improve-
ment and fodder-conservation
in a big way. He’s contributed
articles to The Bulletin’s
“Man on the Land” pages from
time to time, mainly on fodder-
conservation,
The way the Lam-Bar and
Calfeteria work is pretty
obvious from the accompany-
ing photograph. Apart from
making the work of poddying
calves and lambs easier, it is
claimed that the gadgets cut out
a lot of digestive trouble, and
reduce the burden of worms.
Lew people realise how badly
calves on the average dairyfarm
£ r< f affected by wor m s,
Sch ° e I ffel “*■ and crowded
a . teedl ”S ° l ? vlous Jy
aggravate the trouble. At
Menzies Creek he is working
on a similar device for pi lets 6
Xhe Portmajor Potato-tops
and Potato-harvester,
entered b Port lmplements
Ltd of Melbourne and
their Sydney agents Lister
Blackstone, Ltd., also took a
joint award. The beater is a
trailed p.t.o. machine, using
iotary flails and hammers to
knock off the tops and shred
them into fine trash, leaving a
clear run for the potato-
harvester—a sturdy, fairly large
machine, with rubber-sleeved
elevator and conveyor-slabs.
The demonstrator told the
writer it could handle four tons
an hour. When seen by the
judges, handling a five- to six-
ion crop at Maitland (N.S.W.),
it was doing the job with ease.’
Three sorters ride on a foot-
board behind the tranverse con-
veyor. Grading is done later,
The main idea seems to be to
get the spuds out of the ground
and out of the paddock
quickly.
The other award went to the
Rotoflo Displacement Pump,
entered by Watson Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney. It can be screwed into
a 44-gallon drum by a special
screw-plug that goes with the
unit, or it can be bolted to the
wall of a garage or workshop,
It applies the principle of the
K. G. Schoeffel with his Lam-Bar and Calfeteria, winners
of the joint-award at the Orange Field Day.
vane-pump, giving a high rate
of even flow with little effort,
and there is no splashing. A
built-in filter-cone of very fine
gauze keeps rubbish out, and
the pump-operation can be
leversed by turning the rotary
handle anti-clockwise —useful
if the tank has been overfilled.
An entry by F. H. Maguire,
a Tullamore (N.S.W.) farmer,
was ruled ineligible because it
was not in commercial produc-
tion and was not available to
the public, but was highly com-
mended ; and, no doubt, more
will be heard about it next year.
Maguire’s invention is a
pumping-unit, which, by a
clever application of levers and
the coupling of levers to
appropriate gearing, greatly
simplifies the mechanism of a
mill-pump-head, and eliminates
side-movement; which, in turn,
does away with the need for a
rocker-arm.
The conventional 1:1 power-
recovery stroke-ratio has been
leplaced by a 2:1 ratio, mak-
ing more energy available, and
efficiency is increased by an
estimated 33 per cent. Fitted to
a 12ft. wheel the pump-head
worked very smoothly.
But, of course, these special
exhibits were only a small part
of the machinery on display,
There were 85 separate display
blocks, and in some of these a
wide range of products were on
show. The blocks covered
1415 sq.yds. 50 per cent.
more than last year, which was
a record. The machinery, tents,
exhibitors’ stands and
demonstration fields covered an
area of some 200 acres.
Tractors, mouldboard-
plough, disk - ploughs and
-cultivators, tyne - cultivators
and -harrows, chisel-ploughs,
rippers, posthole -diggers,
mobile - saws, post - borers,
rotary-hoes, mowers and balers,
pumps, aircraft for fertiliser-
spreading and crop-spraying,
earthmoving plant, welding
plant, agricultural chemicals,
yards and fences and bores —in
all, thousands of pieces of
machinery and equipment.
The ground was hard, and
the tillage implements stirred
up clouds of dust during the
comparative displays, and con-
ditions were far from ideal for
some of the forage-harvesting
machinery. But, after all, the
central idea of comparative
displays at these field-days is
that machinery can be seen
working under all sorts of
conditions. The lack of water
for the demonstration of
irrigation-equipment was a


m
% i
■BilM
’' 'L- -
m
■m*?
m
SWft
mm
<•: :• <■ "wjfcSS# 9o *. :>
'*— i '"l
r
m
s»****<& m
im
tW- >i T* V<
swr^:agssir«
ISNM
C.. 28 3, SO
CONTROL
STRIKE
with
LESS LABOUR
LESS TIME
LESS COST
use
WILLIAM COOPER
& NEPHEWS'
“PORT-O-SPRAY”
SHEEP RACE and
"SPRAY RACE FLUID"
Provides 8-10 weeks 7 protection
from fly strike in sheep carrying
up to 6 months 7 wool.
Rate of treatment: 50 per minute.
AVAILABLE IN
ONE AND
FOUR-GALLON
TINS
A^***!*""
. v.
m
OBTAINABLE FROM YOUR LOCAL COOPER AGENT:
William Cooper & Nephews (Australia) Pty. Limited


for maximum control of
in sheep of hll ages
First of the liquid phenothia-
zine drenches . . . tested and
checked over many years’
Australia-wide use ... Elliotts
PHEN’ZEEN PLUS en-
sures the fullest effective
control, the greatest con-
venience in drenching,
that can be achieved with
phenothiazine.
DRENCH WITH
1 i
1
If you prefer
POWDER . . . order
Ellio+fs PHENZEEN (Pheno-
thiazine Powder) in the
same fine particle size, sup-
plied in cans, ready-to-mix.
ELLIOTTS RURAL LABORATORIES
DIVISION OF D H A (CHEAAICALS) PTY. LIMITED
more serious business—finally
overcome by private
demonstrations elsewhere—but,
perhaps, it only went to
emphasise the general con-
ditions. One couldn’t very well
escape them, even in the middle
of a successful field-day.
Successful, that is to say,
liom the point of view of the
committee, and on the level
education" and goodwill.
hether the c o m me rcial
exhibitors made much out or
it directly is more doubtful,
The field-day has a strong
educational bias growing
stronger, by the way—but it is
aiso a market, and the back-
ground of bushfires and
drought was not conducive to
easy selling
Apart from taking valuable
machinery to these affairs, the
big shows take teams of mgn
—salesmen, demonstrators and
so on—who arrive, usually,
some days before the exhibition
begins, to prepare their dis-
plays. The total expenses must
be substantial. But, as one
exhibitor explained, results
can’t be accurately assessed in
terms of immediate sales. A
man may see an implement he
fancies at a field-day and write
down to order it six months
later. Perhaps, too, the
Orange Field Day has now
become so much a part of the
agricultural picture that the
larger exhibitors would be
reluctant to drop out.
The exhibitors wanted the
extra day—the field-day was
~, , ,
spread over two days last year
-which seems to indicate that
l^e y weren t particularly
woiried about extra expense. It
_P ei "h a P s significant, too, that
this year there were more repre-
sentatives of manufacturers,
including top executives,
present than in the past. Before,
manufacturers relied more on
local agents to exhibit their
wares.
An interesting trend at this
year’s field-day was the
improvement in the non-
commercial exhibits—those put
on by the Government depart-
ments. These were not only
Another new-implement-award winner at Orange—
the Portmajor potato-harvester.
attractively presented, but con-
venient.
One could wander into one
of the departmental tents, lured,
probably, by an attractive
poster, and come out with a
handful of pamphlets. And, if
that wasn’t enough, there were
specialists in various branches
of agricultural science on the
spot, able and willing to sort
out technical problems.
The various departments—
Agriculture, Soil Conservation,
f orestry —are always willing to
provide this sort of informa-
tion, of course. But there is a
world of difference between
writing a letter to Sydney and
having the information at hand.
And, often enough, one inquiry
leads to another. Writer, for
instance, went into the Forestry
tent looking for a price-list of
trees and shrubs (available, at
very reasonable prices, from
the Forestry nurseries at
Pennant Hills, Narrandera,
Forbes and Dubbo) and came
out with some very valuable
information on preserving
limber.
In the Department of Agri-
culture tent a veterinary officer
was lecturing on hydatids.
Veterinarians, both depart-
mental ones and those employed
by commercial firms, arre
always demonstrating at field-
days, and the sight is seldom
rewarding. Unless one stands
v<ry close, it is almost impos-
sible to see, and, since the
favorite exhibit is some part of
a sheep's inside, there are
minor inconveniences such as
smell and flies. This time the
audience sal comfortably in
chairs, watching the demon-
stration in whichever they
fancied of a row of TV-sets.
The lecturer and his props were
screened off at one end of the
tent. The lecture and demon-
stration came through crystal-
clear. In extension-work, it is
the shape of things to come.
It raises, too, interesting
possibilities for the Orange
Field Day. There is a limit to
the amount of machinery one
can look at, the number of
pamphlets one can collect. But
something of the same kind,
with • a strong practical bias,
showing how to do various
mechanical jobs on the farm,
might go down very well . . .
Which, in turn, raises the
question of the future of the
Orange Field Day itself. There
can be little doubt, at this stage,
that it has a future, and a big
one. In fact, if plans the
committee had in mind some
time back to buy a permanent
site and there, in addition to
their ordinary activities, run a
tractor-testing station in colla-
boration with the Sydney Uni-
versity of Technology had come
off it would have been a very
big concern indeed. The open-
ing of Werribee killed the
tractor-testing part of the
scheme.
The testing-station at Werri-
bee (Vic.) was formally opened


NUFFIELD brings you the most
efficient Independent Power Take-off
you can buy!
p.T.°
No more need for separate power units on most driven implements ... no
more stopping the P.T.O. when the tractor stops Nuffield P.T.O. and
hydraulics work completely independently of tractor movements! You can
stop and start the tractor, move it into any gear without interrupting th«
1.P.T.0. operation and—equally important—stop and start the 1.P.T.0. whil*
the tractor is moving! Two separate clutches —one engaging 1.P.T.0. drive,
the other the tractor drive—make this possible. The hydraulics, too, art
completely independent of tractor movement —it’s no longer necessary to
stop the tractor and put it into neutral to operate the hydraulic pump. 1.P.T.0.
is only one of the many great features of the Nuffield Universal Tractof.
Arrange with your Nuffield Dealer now for a demonstration on your owtt
land —find out for yourself how this great task force can help you tremendously!
Models from £1,326/5/-. F.O.R. all capital cities.
UNIVERSAL TRACTOR
I
p
T
NT. 60.32
\WV UTIMiI 1 11 y.IIIH
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
Nuffield (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Tractor Division,
Box 73, G.P.0., Sydney
Please send me literature on the Nuffield Tractor
Range and Independent Power Take-off.
NAME
ADDRESS
□ Place X In square If for school project.
by the Commonwealth Minister
for Primary Production,
William McMahon, in Septem-
ber, 1956. A glance at the
Werribee set-up is interesting,
both as an indication of the
range of the Orange com-
mittee’s thinking—since they
planned something similar —
and because it illustrates the
interlocking of interests in such
an enterprise.
The building at Werribee is
owned jointly by the Federal
and Victorian Governments,
but it is on the property of the
Victorian Research Farm. The
testing is done by the University
of Melbourne, but it is financed
jointly by the Commonwealth
and the States. The station
itself is controlled by a corn-
mittee, representing the Com-
monwealth, the States and the
University,
The station is equipped to
carry out tests on tractors,
engines, spark-arresters, tyres,
fuels and other agricultural
automotive equipment. Clients
are manufacturers who see the
point of having their products
tested by an independent
authority. There is no com-
pulsion, as there is by law in
Nebraska (U.S.A.).
As for the other part of the
scheme, there seems to be a
pretty even balance of pros and
cons. Finance, obviously,
would be a big factor —such a
property would need to be a fair
size, so that demonstration
areas could be rotated. Having
carried on successfully so far,
the committee would probably
be reluctant to seek outside
finance, either from Govern-
mental bodies or industry, and
the ownership of a property
would raise problems of routine
management. On the other
hand, there are obvious dis-
advantages to a migratory
field-day, and these are likely
to become more acute with
each year. Hygiene is one.
At a farm-machinery field-
day one naturally looks first and
longest at equipment for which
one has some immediate use, if
not the means. Having recently
become the owner of a small
piece of land, dry as a bone,


mTRAVEL
THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD
Book through
BIRT & CO.
(PTY.) LIMITED
4 Bridge Street, Sydney
80529 B 0 5 2 9
also at
312-316 Elizabeth Street,
Brisbane,
and Port Kembla, N.S.W.
M
BUTTSWORTH
EARTH SCOOPS
Priced from £163/0/0
Sizes i to 2 yard.
For further particulars
BUTTSWORTH EARTHMOVING PTY. LTD.
BOX 21 P. 0., WINDSOR, N.S.W.
Phone: Windsor 302
and too close to the bushfire
area, 1 was interested to look
at the smaller tillage implements
and tractor and, particularly,
anything to do with water.
The Yeomans Lockpipe for
getting water out of a dam for
irrigation or for use of stock
was very interesting, as, later,
was a visit to P. A. Yeomans s
property a few miles out of
Orange, some 3000 acres of
country bought cheaply a
couple of years ago, which is
being improved very rapidly.
There were dams galore, dams
to make the mouth water . . .
But there is hardly space here to
report what has been going on
there ; which, anyway, should
be related to the Keyline work
on Yeomans’s other properties,
at North Richmond and at
Campbelltown.
In the same line of interest,
Pat Buttsworth’s scoop, which
won a new-implement award at
last year’s field-day, and his
scoop with ripper-attachment
which could quite possibly have
taken another award had it
been entered this year; fire-
fighting equipment; .anti -
evaporation rafts; and con-
crete tanks . . . Window-shop-
ping, after all, is one of the
chief joys of a field-day.
Among the tractors, the
David Brown 2D caught the
eye, a handy machine of revo-
lutionary design with an air-
cooled 4 - stroke 2 - cylinder
diesel-engine. It has five packs
-—commercial growers', row-
crop, dairyfarm, small-holders'
general purpose, and market-
gardeners’.
There is, of course, a danger
of becoming obsessed by fire
and water. But, coming over
the Blue Mountains, and
driving through country ripe for
fire where it had already
started, one couldn't escape the
impression of something of
immense proportions which was
being tackled valiantly enough,
but by too lew people. Like
a division being held up at one
or two points by platoons, but
roaring on in its main drive.
The military metaphor cannot
be quite sustained, of course —
few of them can—but it struck
the mind, up above Faulcon-
bridge, where flames came to
the side of the road, eating the
wildflowers. There were the
unspectacular bunches of
Nowadays you can do just about anything with a tractor
-this hydraulically operated attachment, seen working
at the Orange Field Day, digs a ditch while you’re
thinking about it.
flame, like advancing infantry,
creeping forward here and
there, and behind, the big guns,
the fire roaring down mountain
valleys and huge pillars of
smoke. It is a natural progres-
sion to think that this problem
- —not this particular outbreak
of bushlires, but bushfires in
general—should be attacked
on some broader (national)
plane than at present. There
have been reports from overseas
of the use of aircraft, not only
for spotting fires, but for dous-
ing them ; which seems to call
for a strategic pattern of dams.
And darns themselves, on
individual properties, provided
they were big enough, could do
a great deal to minimise the
bushfire danger . . .
Seeing what can be done at
Orange by a group of local
graziers makes these bold pro-
jects seem not improbable.
Particularly when one sees,
spread over a couple of hundred
acres, the modern weight of
machinery. As Mr. Bucknell
remarked, there is a need for
teamwork ; and also a need for
leadership.
Looking round the fieldrday
itself, it would be remarkably
hard to find fault with the
general organisation. But, since
criticism has been practically
invited —by the chairman, who
said distinctly, “We like criti-
cism”—there is one comment:
working circular-saws should
have guards. Most of the
people looking at such things
at a field-day know enough to
keep clear of them, but there
were children in the crowd,
and a child could run into
the thing.
J. F.
Honey Drought
“B-herd”: Beekeepers—
like other herders —had almost
forgotten what a drought was
like. At the beginning of this
one an old saying was dredged
up from someone's memory
and passed round: “When the
cocky's pickin’ up the dead
wool, we get our big crops.”
Well, there have been dead
sheep among the rocky outcrops
and cattle around the water-
holes for months in this pocket
of country (the N.S.W.-Queens-
land border, near Texas), the
yellow-box has just about
finished a good flowering in
company with the narrow-leaf
iron bark and the two gums,
red and sand, but the big crop
is still legend.
The bees came into the early
dry spring weak from gather-
ing crops of narrow-leaf box in
the late autumn and the famous
“bluetop” ironbark through the
long winter. Normally, this
latter tree builds good bees and
there are no wintering pro-
blems, but this year thousands


FOR SPEED
AND SERVICE!
SS'lVj’i
aw
0,1m,* 7
K»V
i , 'i! •'•BiSS;
Ship by Wilhelmsen Lino,
providing regular service to
the Middle East,
the Continent and
Scandinavia.
Refrigerated as well as
general cargo space available.
Limited first-class
passenger accommodation
in double or single
deck cabins available,
Wilhelmsen
Line
/
For full details contact:
Wilh Wilhelmsen Agency Pty., Ltd., 30 Pitt St., Sydney, BU 6301; 51 William St., Melbourne, MA 3031.
Also Managing Agents for A.P.L. and A.W.P.
Line and Scandinavian Airlines System l
American pioneer eine
Rapid service from Australia to
U.S. and Canadian Atlantic Coast
Ports and Trinidad via Panama.
AUSTRALIA-WEST PACIFIC
LINE
Serving Manila, Hong Kong, main
Japanese ports and Shanghai, return
via New Guinea and Island Ports.
FLY SAS on their SHORT-CUT
POLAR ROUTES TO EUROPE!
of colonies died-off when they
should have been building,
Month after dry month has
eone and the pollen trees have
bloomed, but the stuff had no
guts to it, the bees dwindled,
and the ants moved in.
Bee-herds from the coast,
from the border to north of
Brisbane, who had raced their
bees out for the promised flow,
are now as hurriedly moving
east again. Men who wintered
out there have been moving
in the remnants of bee-yards for
weeks.
I stand to be corrected if
figures later don’t show that ’57
drought-year was the worst for
, £or a scor f °j W i£ not
£ ° r I ? nger '. A " d hone y co ":
sumption is down on all
markets, particularly West Ger-
many, and falling in Australia ;
with, perhaps, a possible excep-
tion in South Australia, where,
under a compulsory-marketing
scheme, advertising is more
effective than it is elsewhere.
Silage Gas
“Timaroo”: Unlike hay,
which is completely dead when
stacked, greenstuff is still
“breathing” when it is first put
into a silo or stack. In
some circumstances poisonous
gases can be formed during this
process.
While there is no danger
when stacks or pits are being
filled in the open, gases can
collect and become dangerous
in enclosed overhead stacks.
Poisoning from these gases
has become common enough in
the U.S. for the medical profes-
sion to recognise it as a specific
disease known as “silo-filler's
disease.” Some cases are so
severe that the gas kills victims
immediately.
Chemists say that plants,
especially maize, store high con-
centrations of nitrates when
grown under adverse conditions
during which the plants get a
check in growth.
When maize-silage with a
high nitrate-content ferments,
part of the nitrate is released
and changed into mixed nitro-
gen-oxides. Nitrogen-trioxide
is a brown gas, nitrogen-
dioxide is red, and nitrogen-
tetroxide is yellow. Nitrogen-
dioxide is one of the deadliest
gases.
Fortunately, the color of
these gases has enabled farmers
to recognise them and blow
them off partly filled silos
before the day’s work has
begun.
Grazing-leases
“Saracen”: The last trek of
sheep and cattle to above the
4500 ft. above-sea-level line in
the Australian Alps, which
began recently, marks a wel-
come change of policy in graz-
ing-leases. The sweet mountain
grasses will be specially
valuable to hungry stock this
year, but next season the
animals will have to rely on
what they can get further down
the hills.
One of Australia’s worst
examples of siltation of a water-
storage is in the Melton
Reservoir, about 25 miles west
of Melbourne, which has
become so full of silt that the
availability of its water to the
thriving Werribee irrigation-
district is a doubtful proposi-
tion every year.
It would be a tragedy if
such a position was allowed to
occur in the Southern Alps
storages. It has begun in the
Hume Reservoir, but could be
halted by wise management of
the catchment.
If not, it would be foolish
trying to increase the storage's
capacity by raising the dam-
bank at the expense of large
areas of rich river-flats, if the
bed of the dam is being raised
by siltation.
Vegetative cover is the best
answer to both wind- and
water-erosion. The control of
grazing in the catchment-areas
is a big move towards retain-
ing what is really Nature’s
major weapon in protecting
herself.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
lirectors: THOMAS A. MAGUEY, Chairman; F. IV. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director.
Thone: BW 8361.
P. BURDON, Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
A Bushman in Paris
By BILL HOWARD
IN Newhaven Customs-shed
a tall girl approached us
and said: “Are you two
blokes bloody Aussies?”
“Oui, madame, you too, obvi-
bloodyously, but how did you
pick us?’’
“By your hats. The distinc-
tive chapeau d’Australie.”
We were mortified.
We had heard the French
were not above making a quick
franc and that they regarded all
Australians in queer hats as
rich graziers. So in the train
down from London we flat-
tened out the hats and perfected
the French phrase “We are
Australians, yes, but we are
Australians sans laine’’ (with-
out wool).
The tall girl, an Australian
journalist living in Paris, took
us under her Paris - wise
antipodean wings and got us a
petite chambre for five-bob a
night in the narrow Rue
Dauphine where she lived.
The Parisians aren’t given to
understatement. When they
call a chambre petite it really
is petite. It was so small in
fact that we couldn’t hang both
those hats on the wall at the
same time. As one spruced up
the other had to lie on the
narrow bed and watch a bistro
Neon, ominously called La
Escapade, leering at us fifteen
feet away.
At the students’ cafe, Le
Bouillion, George and I broke
the cafe record (by half a litre)
set by two G.l.s on Liberation
night, for the consumption of
vin ordinaire. Then we began
a bistro-crawl that a Dia-
mantina bushman after a year
in a mustering-camp would not
deprecate. We had all the
exotic - sounding drinks
marsalas, pemods, vermouths,
grenadines, dubonnets, coca-
colas and cognacs.
By midnight we were as
bushed as cduld be and the
Eiffel Tower was a midget
compared to our height.
AI7E found ourselves in a
*’ touch-joint somewhere in
Montmartre. With considerable
enterprise I picked up and
danced with a magnificently
beautiful French girl simply
dressed in elegant black. Why
do we Aussies expect tarts to
look like tarts?
George then began ruth-
lessly to try to win the Beaut
French Good Sort away.
Succeeded, too, and I watched
the astonished look on the
B.F.G.S.’s face as George
galloped her around the dance-
“Your job's not ALL beer ’n' skittles, passon!”
space. George didn’t dance in
the effete French manner. He
danced with all the uninhibited
enthusiasm of a jackeroo hitting
town only twice a year for a
ball.
This is it, I communed.
Middle-age . . . you’ve had it
when that young dingo can go
under your neck for your Beaut
French Good Sort. Shoot
through, mug, and give your
mate a fair go.
Next morning in the narrow
bed in the petite chambre:
“Blime, I suis tres bloody
malade. I have all. Le cafard,
the heebies, the melancholia.”
“You mean, mug,” George
replied, with a hangover snarl,
“you’re crook from the grog,
and you're not Robinson
Crusoe either.”
We lay back letting the
events of the night flood back
from the old subconsh.
Suddenly George sat up,
threw back the cover and began
unwinding an enormous and
dramatic bandage coiled around
his leg.
“Blimey!” I exclaimed. “La
savate. Did some apache-king
kick you? What- a mate I
turned out to be. 1 shouldn’t
have left you.”
Without answering, George
finished unwinding the bandage.
Underneath lay his wallet. In
it were 400 francs—four-bob.
Arriving back the night
before, George had used a
stratagem that a shearer’s cook
at Eongreach had put him up
to. A real grogman, this
babbler hitting town would
plant his wallet under a big
bandage around his leg. When
the drunk-rollers rolled him
over they would find only the
silver in his pockets (if any).
But a more chic type of drunk-
roller had been <vt George’s
wallet.
“1 remember all now,” George
lamented. “Pink champagne at
four-thousand francs a bottle.
The whole works. Oh, what a
mug! I’m a body-in-the-Seine
job. Dinkum I am.”
To keep him - out of the
Seine: “I envy you. She was
magnifico.”
“I didn't even kiss her”
George moaned. “Say, what’s
the time? 1 have to meet her
at the Cafe Dupont in the Rue
St. Germaine at midday. She
might have some change or
something for us.”
AT one-o’clock, after a bitter
conference, we decided for
George to parade himself, pass-
port in hand, to the Australian
Embassy and tell ’em the old,
old story: that he’d lost his
wallet, i
1 forgot to say that while
waiting for my draft to arrive
from Bradford we’d been work-
ing, or rather playing, on
George’s bank..
We shall never forget trying,
in our exceedingly frail state,
to find the Aussie Embassy.
The mad French traffic seemed
to surge at us with a personal
malevolence. Hand -in - hand
we ran across the wide boule-
vardes, Lascarlike, Hogan-
like . . .
We decided to spend our last
four-bob slugging ourselves
with a sedative. The pharmacist
couldn’t understand our
French. We made the gesture
of drinking, shook all over
simulating jitters (not too much
simulation either) and kept
muttering “Le cafard.’’
We probably got a potion for
the Moroccan ague. We felt
worse.
The Embassy gave George
his train-ticket back to London
next day and advanced some
francs. We could eat.
That night we squatted in
our petite chambre drinking
some very cheap, very powerful
Algerian rUm we’d found to
fit our purse. No wonder they
rebel in Algeria. The more we
hit ourselves the more
belligerent we became.
“Come on,” said George;
“let’s find that clip-joint. If
they don’t come across with
our dough we'll bung on a
bigger blue than the Battle of
the Wazir.”
We couldn't find the joint.
Next morning things were
brighter. The dough from
Bradford had arrived. But
George wouldn’t stay on. He
protested he was too weak a
character for Paris and anyway
the Aussie Embassy had
lumbered him out.
As the train pulletj out,
George, with a yard of French
bread sticking out of one over-
coat pocket and a bottle of
vino out of the other, leant out
the window and yelled very
vivid instructions what to do
with the B.F.G.S. if I ever
found her.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order t,.
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
RECIPIENT: .
ADDRESS
DONOR: ..
ADDRESS
GIFT SUBSCRIPTION: If the above is a Christmas gift
an appropriate Greetings-card will be sent direct to the
recipient announcing your gift and signed on your behalf.
SIGN CARD : .
Rates (A/asia): 1 year— £2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques
subscriber has his copy, our
official historians, together with
their counterparts in London,
Hew Zealand, Canada and
Washington, have often
acknowledged the value of unit
histories as companions to the
official versions—for here, of
course, the emphasis lies on
the unit itself; its own person-
alities, training and organis-
ing to carry out orders ; fight-
ing as required, celebrating
victories or licking wounds,
rather than high-level policy
and planning to which so much
space must be devoted on the
wider horizon viewed by a
general history.
It is not the fault of associa-
tions that these worthy records
do not enjoy a wider distribu-
tion. The simple fact is that
associations are not publishing
houses. Commercial firms
would almost certainly veto
publication at their risk on the
ground of insufficient public
appeal—and so the only alter-
native is for associations to go
it alone and foot the bill from
within their own resources.
This is exactly what happens,
and in the years since the last
war there has been a steady
trickle of admirable unit
histories covering both A.I.F.
and so - called “m ilit i a”
battalions, artillery, signals, and
one by an armored regiment.
First one out was that of the
2/14th Battalion—successor to
Jacka’s Mob of 1914-18, and
itself earning equally famous
fighting laurels for its home
State of Victoria, with Bruce
Kingsbury carrying on the V.C.
tradition. Bill Russell, one of
the battalion’s officers, now an
inspector of schools in Vic-
toria, burned the midnight oil
on this one, and it is a model
which all subsequent historians
could not go wrong in emula-
ting.
Since then, notable histories
have included that of the
2/13th Battalion (edited by
Geoffrey Fearnside), 29th/46th
Battalion (Rupert Charlett),
42nd Battalion (S. E. Benson),
Desert Sand and Jungle Green
—-the 2/43rd Battalion —a pic-
torial history by Geoffrey Boss-
Walker. The South Australian.
2/10th Battalion is almost
ready for the printers, as are
one or two others.
Aside from infantry, four
artillery units have so far
published the 2/4th Field
Regiment (R. C. Henry), the
2/sth — Guns and Gunners —-
(Brig. J. W. O’Brien), the 2/7th
(David Goodhart), and the
2/3rd Anti-Tank Regiment
(“Silver John” —nickname of
C.O. and author J. N. L.
Argent).
Tank Tracks is the title of
the 2/4th Armoured Regiment
Group history the only
armored or cavalry history to
appear so far.
Three histories were born
and largely written in captivity.
They are: Galleghan’s Grey-
hounds (2/30th Battalion), by
A. W. Penfold, C. B. Bayliss
(deceased while a prisoner-of-
war) and K. E. Crispin;
Through (Bth Division Signals),
by J. W. Jacobs and R. J. Bridg-
land; and The Story of the
2/2nd Pioneer Battalion, by
E. F. Aitken. The latter unit
was part of the ill-fated Black-
force in Java and was lost there
—although reconstituted in
Australia shortly afterwards
and serving under that title until
the war’s end.
Comparing the output of
1939-45 with that of 1914-18,
the result may seem poor, with
no fewer than 33 of the 60-
odd First A.I.F. Battalions,
nine Light Horse regiments,
two Light Horse brigades, and
even an A.I.F. division —the
5th —publishing full-scale his-
tories. The Australian Flying
Corps, then part of the A.1.F.,
published histories for two of
its four fighting squadrons
(Nos. 3 and 4).
Prominent among the authors
of that period were Frank
Green, former Clerk of the
House of Reps., who wrote-up
his old unit, the 40th ; Royal
Military College historian J. E.
Lee —the 45th Battalion ; and
3 Squadron A.F.C. historian
H. N. Wrigley, who retired
from the R.A.A.F. in 1946 as
an Air-Vice-Marshal.
Perhaps the greatest factor
working against an equivalent
output for the last war is that
even up to 1939 the whole his-
tory project could be carried
through for about £3OO. The
method of financing was much
the same as today, and there
was another fund in operation
—the Anzac Book Fund —
which provided some subsidisa-
tion. At least £2OOO is needed
in 1957 to bring out a decent-
sized history. In addition, the
tensions of the post-war years,
and the wider scattering of ex-
members throughout the Com-
monwealth, provide today’s
historians with a much tougher
task. That not a few have
carried it through so success-
fully is very much a credit to
their doggedness.
In the personal-experience
field only one phase of war has
spurred individual Australians
to write books to any extent —
and publishers to accept them.
That was the period when so
many of our troops were
prisoners-of-war in Malaya and
South-east Asia. Out of these
deep experiences have come
books like Rohan Rivett’s
Behind Bamboo; White
Coolies, by Sister Betty Jeffrey;
Russell Braddon’s The Naked
Island; W. S. Kent Hughes's
Slaves of the Samurai —perhaps
about 20 all told. In fact, this
published material, together
with the extraordinarily large
volume of official records
which the A.I.F. compiled and
preserved in captivity, makes
this black period the best-
documented one in the whole
war!
Unlike the Army, the other
two Services have no official
scheme to foster the production
of unit histories—despite the
wealth of dramatic material
which must necessarily
surround the activities of the
Navy and Air Force. Only one
R.A.A.F. Squadron—No. 455,
by J. H. W. Lawson —has
turned out a history as an
association effort.
For the R.A.N. it has rested
upon individual writers, pub-
lishing through commercial
firms, to produce a small but
excellent series of what could be
regarded as “unit” histories.
Two .of these deal with
H.M.A.S. Perth— Age Shall Not
Weary Them, by Rowland G.
Roberts, and Ronald McKie’s
Proud Echo. There are also
two on the Sydney— Stormy
Petrel, by W. H. Ross, and
Lioness of the Seas, by George
H. Johnston. The story of
H.M.A.S. Parramatta is told t>y
Paul and Margaret McGuire in
The Price of Admiralty, while
Leader of the Crocks, by J. E.
Clifford, is a history of
H.M.A.S. Stuart. *Two others
are: H.M.A .S. Yarra, by A. F.
Parry, and W. N. Swan’s story
of H.M.A.S. Westralia (a Land-
ing Ship, Infantry) called Spear-
heads of Invasion.
Much, therefore, has been
achieved in the field of unit
histories ; but all this does not
alter the fact that we have
virtually ignored two wars—•
Korea and South Africa —that
we cannot pick off the shelves
a biography of Monash, Vasey
—or numerous others —nof
even one autobiography (when
Neville Cardus can get away
with two volumes). And to
round off the picture, there is
not a reference work dealing
solely with Australian recipients
of the Victoria Cross —over 60
of them!


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A, FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
HURTS
Circular Charts for all typos
of Recording Instruments
tor any class of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
ACCURACY GUARANTEED
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy the Li Hung Chang Scrap-
book, by Hiram Maxim. —6630.
Best offer (subject to later inspec-
tion) for holey dollar and dump. —
6631.
To buy copy of schoolboys’-
adventure type of book out of print
lor many years Vinland, or
America before Columbus. Also
book They Lived with Me, by Helen
Zenna Smith, author of Not So
Quiet. —6632.
To buy Voles, Mice and Lem-
mings, by Ch. Elton; The United
Nations, by H. V. Evatt; Handbook
of Trees for Australian Foresters, by
Ewart; any titles by Jeffery Farnol;
Bibliography of Australia (Vols. 1
and 2, or complete set), by J. A.
Ferguson; any titles by Arthur
TJpfield—6633.
“Australian Museum Magazine”
(Vol. I—Nos. 3, 11, 12; Vol. 8—
No. 11); “Australian Quarterly”
(Nos. 1,4, 6, 8-12, 14, 17, 18, 21-25;
Vol. 11—No. 2; Vol. 15—No. 3);
Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research Bulletin Nos. 1-16, 19-23,
25, 26, 28, 30-33, 35, 36, 38, 39, 41,
42, 46, 49, 51, 54, 55, 57, 61, 64-66,
72, 77, 80-90, 93, 94, 112-116, 125,
127, 148, 172, 191, 198, 205-207,
219, 231, 233, 236, 240; “The
Emu” (Vol. 1; Vol. B—No. 5; Vol.
12 —No. 3 suppl.; Vol. 20—No. 1;
Vol. 44); minutes of proceedings
of the Engineering Association of
N.S.W. (Vols. IV, V, VII, XVIII,
XXI - XXIII, XXVI, XXXI);
Journal of the Cancer Research
Committee of Sydney University
(Vol. 3—No. 3; Vol. 4—No. 1);
“Mankind” (Vol. I—No.1 —No. 6);
Official Year Book of N.S.W.
(1905-06, 1906-07, 1925); Official
Year Book of the Commonwealth
of Australia (Nos. 4,7, 16). —6634.
Does Anybody Know?
What is the present identity of a
house erected at Watson’s Bay
(Sydney) for a biological station in
the early 1880’s, on the representa-
tion of the Russian scientist
Mikluko-Maklay, and stated to have
subsequently been taken over by the
Department of Defence?
Information Supplied
“Trowell Creek”: In regard to the
meaning of aboriginal word Yarra-
bah (B. 30/10/’57), the answer is
“a hill with red gumtrees.” This
information is given in The Aus-
tralian Blue Book (1942 edition).
The word is spelt Yarabah in the
book.
Information Sought
Some particulars of the British
Labor Government’s “groundnut
scheme” in East Africa?
In 1946 the Attlee Government
sent John Wakefield to East Africa
to investigate the possibilities of
growing groundnuts for the produc-
tion of margarine. The Wakefield
Report, published as a Blue Book,
became' the blueprint of the scheme,
which got under way in early 1947,
under the general supervision of John
Strachey, Minister of Food. In
Jan., 1948, a White Paper, pub-
lished as the first progress report,
stoutly maintained that the first
year’s operations “had not disclosed
any fundamental faults in the con-
ception of the scheme.” In Feb.,
1948, the Overseas Resources
“Not a bad job—how many gallons to the mile ?”
Development Bill became law ; it
set-up the Overseas Food Corpora-
tion to take over executive control.
Things blundered along until, in a
White Paper of Jan. 9, 1951, the
British (Labor) Government had to
announce that it had decided to
abandon the original conception of
the scheme and to continue it only
it* a modified form as an experi-
mental development project under
the direction of the Colonial Office ;
and £6 million was set aside to wind-
up the original scheme. The whole
allair was severely criticised by The
Bulletin in, among numerous other
comments in those years, a Plain
English article “Peanuts beyond
Price” (B. 17/1/’5l), in which it was
stated thtat 200 tons were grown
between 1947 and 1950, at a cost of
£57 10s. a pound to produce. At
that stage, The Bulletin continued,
the British Socialist Government had
spent £36.5 million trying to grow
peanuts, this sum being “written off”
by the Government. In mid-195 3
Unilever, Ltd., acquired an interest
in the scheme, and the British
Government, then led by Sir Win-
ston Churchill, disposed of its
unwanted legacy by passing (Nov.
25, 1954) another Overseas Resources
Development Bill, which provided
for the dissolution ( of the Overseas
Food Corporation and the transfer
or the corporation’s remaining assets,
such as they were, to an agricultural
corporation set-up by the Govern-
ment of Tanganyika. The first three
years of the scheme (which the
sympathetic ithor describes even
then as “a story of failure, frustra-
tion, heartbreak, bad luck and bad
blunders”) are covered in full in Alan
Wood’s The Groundnut Affair
(1950).
* * * *
Some information on the Setfridge
who founded the British department-
stores of that name ?
Born in Wisconsin (U.S.A.) in
1864, Harry Gordon Selfridge
started work as a shop-assistant,
went into a bank and, at the age of
20, took a messenger’s job at the
huge Chicago department-store of
Marshall Field’s, where in no time
be was assistant-manager of the
store. Bustling with energy and
brimful of ideas (it was Selfridge
who introduced, among other
things, the annual sale and the
bargain - basement), and with
profits soaring, he was put in com-
plete charge of the shop after only
seven years’ employment. Later
Marshall Field objected to some of
Selfridge’s ideas, the pair
quarrelled over that and other issues,
and in 1903 Selfridge left. He went
to England, and in 1909 opened
Selfridge’s in Oxford Street, London.
Putting the same energy and bustle
and commercial brilliance into his
own firm, he quickly got it on its
feet. In 1926 Selfridge’s became
a public co., Selfiridge being paid
£2 million in cash and retaining
control. During the 1930’5, after a
period: of slackness and declining
profits, Selfridge, old and losing his
drive, was voted out of control. In
1918 he published The Romance of
Commerce, the story of business and
trade through the ages. He died in
May, 1947.
i
* * * *
Is there any successful method of
rejuvenating typewriter-ribbons ?
Process is troublesome and not
very satisfactory, as the ribbon is
worn and probably cut by the type-
faces. Assemble 2oz. alcohol, {oz.
lampblack or good fluid-dye, 2oz.
water, 4oz. glycerine. Dissolve the
color in the alcohol (meth. sp.' may
be tried for this), and add the water
and glycerine. Lay the old ribbon
out on a newspaper in sections,
brush the ink on with a small stiff
brush, and reel up completed
length. Let stand a day or two
before using. Glycerine alone could
be tried, brushed on in the same
way, or the ink used on marking-
pads. An economy hint is to cut a
lull-sized ribbon in two, using half
at a time: saves drying out in a
hot climate.
Rriof A nt wP«
1 /Answers
Shirley Collins, the 14-
year-old Victorian girl, was battered
to death at Mt. Martha (Vic.) on
Sept. 12, 1953. The murder has not
yet been solved H. 8.8.: (1)
Henry Lawson was born at Grenfell
(N.S.W.) on June 17, 1867. (2) Will
Lawson was born at Gateshead
(Eng.) on Sept 2, 1876 K.S.W.:
As lar as is known, no collection of
her poems has yet been published,
.... J.D.: Everyman’s Encyclopcedia
says of the South Shetlands—“ Arch-
ipelago of 12 islands in the Antarctic
Ocean, 600 miles south-east of Cape
Horn, a dependency of the Falk-
land Islands. The chief are Living-
stone, Smith, Clarence, George and
Deception. Deception Island has a
harbor, Port Foster, which is ice-
free for five months of the year, with
a land station which arrives and
departs with the whaling-fleet. The
group is also a centre for sealing.
Area in 1948, about 880 square-
miles” A.F.: The name Queen
Elizabeth Islands was granted by
Royal permission in 1954 to the great
archipelago of islands north of
Canada, and extending almost to
the North Pole. The archipelago
includes the islands of Ellesmere
(the largest in the group, 77,000
square-miles), Devon, Melville, Axel
Heiberg, Prince Patrick, Cornwallis
and Mackenzie King. The total area
oi the group is 160,000 square-miles.
. ...R.W.: No, none of them has
any alcohol-content —unfortunately,
perhaps J.H.: The last N.Z.
Soccer team to visit Australia (in
1954) lost the series two Tests to
one. NZ. won the first Test (in
Melbourne) 2-1, and Australia the
second (in Brisbane) 4-1 and the
third (in Sydney), also by 4-1....
E.0.8'.: Translated the shorthand,
but the rest of the hieroglyphics,
though parts looked familiar —a bit
too familiar some of it looked —had
us beat. So, as the shorthand
instructed us to do, it’s being
returned, for you to resubmit in
plain English G.A.H.: Morgan
the bushranger stuck-up Peechelba
station, north-west of Wangaratta
(Vic.), in April, 1865. He kept the
entire household bailed-up all
through the night, and was shot dead


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO KENNETH JOHN WATSON late of
Mills Street Carlton.— I TAKE NOTICE
that SHIRLEY WATSON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 8995 of 1957
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 6th day of February
1958 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from GREGG & MILNE,
Solicitors, of 4 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
Coralie Eileen ROBINSON or
O’CONNOR or CONNOR or HOOKE,
daughter of Michael Brein O’Connor, or
anyone knowing her whereabouts, please
contact the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19
O’Connell Street, Svdney, quoting estate
of EDWARD ROBINSON.
A Christmas-gift to
Fascinate —
“THE LETTERS OF
RACHEL HENNING"
A "Bulletin" Bestseller
This charming and absorbing real-life story of
Australia 100 years ago, told in sparkling, gossipy prose
by Rachel Henning herself, has become a classic of
Australian biography, and is one of the most talked-about
books published in recent years.
“The Letters of Rachel Henning” read like a
romantic novel. If you have never read them there is
real delight in store for you. If you have read them you
will realise what a charming present they will make for
a friend.
Not the smallest attraction of the book are the
40 exquisite pen-drawings by Norman Lindsay.
Copies of "The Letters of Rachel Henning" will be
sent, post-free, to any address in Australia upon
receipt of 7s. 6d. (seven shillings and sixpence) by
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney,
and branch offices in Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.
early in the morning by one of the
station-hands... .M.N.: Here are a
few suggestions—Akeringa. on the
plains; Birk a 11 a, Bundarra,
Perponda, plain ; Alukea, pine-tree ;
Antakira, Berrima, Coor i 11 a,
Jndukira, south; Anunaka, ours;
Arakoola, in front; Dantamani,
Matlanya, owner; Parachilna,
Fatawalonga, Patawilya, eucalyptus-
tree place; Yurara, east....J.E.K.:
There should be no objection. »You
must, however, first obtain a clear-
ance from the Taxation Department
in your capital city.,. .L.A.: Where
there are two executors, the com-
mission should be shared equally.
Consult a solicitor... .E.A.8.:
England v. Australia (“1877
onwards”), compiled by James
Rivers, gives the full scores of
cricket Tests between the two
countries up to the end of the
1948 series. Doubt, however,
whether the results of all cricket
Tests in which Australia has ever
played will be found in any one
volume. (2) Yes. A surf-carnival
will be held at North Cur! Curl
(Sydney) Saturday, Feb. 8, next
year... .R.d’O.: Moonya means
“camp” or “a dwelling”... .C.J.:
(1) 1900 was the year in which the
co. reached its peak in production
and dividends. (2) Write Melbourne
Stock Exchange, Little Collins
Street. Melbourne... .D.F.Y.: Your
letter has been sent on to “Milfay.”
....J.McC.: The 1928 Common-
wealth Year Book says, “Following
an investigation by the Parliamen-
tary Joint Committee of Public
Accounts into the operations of the
Commonwealth Shipping Board, it
was decided to dispose of the
remaining vessels of the [Common-
wealthi line, and tenders for their
purchase were called in January,
1928. Three tenders were submitted,
and that on behalf of the White
Star Line, £1,900,000, was acceptecL
and the sale effected in April, 1928.
. ...D.C.T.: (1) No person of that
name is on the board of Metro-
politan Portland Cement, Ltd. (2)
See Business, Robbery article “A
Queer Cement - mixture” (B.
9 /10/'57) H.F.: Write Aus-
tralian Broadcasting Commission,
G.P.O. Box 293 E, Brisbane (Q.)....
E. 8.: Write Amalgamated Tele-
vision Services Pty., Ltd., ATN
Television Centre, Epping (N.S.W.).
. ...R.S.: Yes, it, too, has been
climbed. A British expedition led
by Dr. Charles Evans, who was a
member of the party which climbed
Mt. Everest in 1953 (Sir John Hunt’s
party, including Sir Ernest Hillary),
climbed Mt. Kanchenjunga, in the
Himalayas, in May, 1955.
Kanchenjunga is 28,140 ft., third-
highest mountain in the world, and
at the time of this climb the highest
unconquered mountain... J.G. and
R.L.R.: Must repeat what was said
to T.R.M. in Brief Answers (B.
21/8/’57) —“It would be necessary,
to know a lot more about your
slate of finances (possibly more than
you are prepared to disclose) before
any advice given could be useful.”
....Ray: N.S.W. Government
Astronomer Harley Wood, to whom
your question was referred, states
that there is no place in the world
where the sun’s maximum height
corresponds every day with 12-
o’clock midday. The sun reaches
its highest point in the sky at
different times in different longitudes,
so that in a large area like Queens-
land it is not possible to say at
what time the sun attains its zenith,
apart from the fact that it will be,
anyway, at a different time every
day... .Muggville: No, they’re not
legal in Australia, though in one
or two States some such schemes are
run, surreptitiously... .Roto : The
Trump, 1937 Melbourne Cup
winner, was owned by E. Eccles and
trained by S. W. Reid. A. Reed
w'as his jockey ... .J.E.C.: The
secretary of the N.S.W'. Police
Department states that, respecting
the number of murder-cases in
N.S.W. since 1950, the information
given here has been taken from the
department’s records and can be
regarded, as being accurate. Number
of persons charged with murder,
195 male; 48 female. Number of
those convicted, -134 male; 21
female. Number sentenced to 10
years and more, 74 male; 6 female.
Ihe period covered by these statistics
is from January, 1950, to date
(22/11/’s7)....Walter: (1) Write
Taxation Department, Adelaide. (2)
Roughly speaking, yes. (3) If it was
declared when bought that the shares
were intended for resale, yes....
Jim H.: Yes, as you say, it has
interests in nearly all the capital
cities J.R.P.: The N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture insect-
pest leaflet “Snails and Slugs” has
been forwarded to you by post....
N. 8.: Likewise dispatched to you
is the same department’s brochure
on the control and destruction of
Noogoora-burr R.S.: Can find
nc trace of it in Sydney; but a
similar chemical called Fertosan at
3s. 9d. a small packet is supplied by
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Ltd.,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney. Trepex can
probably be obtained from J. N.
Anderson and Son, Ltd., Wellesley
Road, Napier, N.Z.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(21/11/’57)
Queensland should get general rain during December,
with flooding in the south-west, central highlands and
central coast. Apart from heavy rain in the north, the wet
season may be lighter than usual.
General rain in N.S.W. in December, best falls on the
north coast, northern tablelands and north-west slopes and
plains, and a possibility of light rain only for the western
Riverina and lower Darling. Dry conditions aye likely in the
Riverina and western country during the first half of 1958.
North-east Victoria, Gippsland and the central and
western divisions should get moderately good rain in
December, but the Mallee and the northern part of the State
may get only light rain.
Apart from variable rains, mainly in the upper north,
South Australia may get poor rainfall during December.
However, one cycle indicated a wet month, so a variation
is possible.
General rains below average are indicated in the W.A.
Kimberleys during December, with reasonably good rains on
the goldfields and south-west areas. Rainfall should be poor
elsewhere in the State.
LENNOX WALKER.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributor i voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
G.K.: One or two nice touches.
. ...L.N.: A sluggish trickle....
8.F.C.: No more sputniks, please!
M.L.: It rambles along with-
out really getting anywhere....
M.McP.: More loose ends than a
bowl of spaghetti H.G.:
Twelve stanzas on window-
shopping W.T.: Has faint
appeal; try for less-obvious
rhymings...:P.T.: “Beach Ode”
damp and sandy K.R.: Your
cricketer clean - bowled.... A.W.:
What on earth is “musical
parallelism”? 8.K.: The first
stanza fair N.N.F.: Stick to pig-
raising. .. .H.T.: Not quite hopeless.
W.B.: “The splendor of the set-
ting sun” was a good opening, but
it's been said before... .D.H.:
Careers along like a runaway tram.


CARRY THE
BURDEN
.
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
{England)
N.B.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
OPES
oj Every Type
and Size
Famous for many
years as Queensland’s
premier manufacturers
of envelopes we pro-
duce the well known—
“JAXUL” PATENT
CLEAR - FACE WIN-
DOW Envelopes in
sizes 5f ins. x ins.,
6f x 3f and 9 ins. x;
4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED En-
velopes in all sizes,
No. 1 to No. 8.
Plain or Printed
COMMERCIAL En-
velopes in all standard
sizes and qualities,
plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application
lockson &
O’Sullivan pty.itd.
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers <fl Printers
304-306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
he squatted and felt the cooling
body and ran his fingers over
the protruding spear-haft and
a grunt rose up from deep
within him.
A long soundless time passed
while he looked up and down
the trail. Then he motioned
to his men and they faded
into the shadows.
paused only long
enough at the door of
One-Fang’s hut to sweep back
the filthy curtain and admit the
pale morning light. Then,
taking his nostrils firmly
between finger and thumb, he
went in and kicked the snoring
cure-all firmly in the ribs.
“Get up, big stink,” he said,
“you have work to do. It
won’t wait and neither will I.”
And he ripped the sleeping-
robe off One-Fang with a
gesture that could have well
been applied to a scalping-
knife.
One-Fang regarded the youth
foggily.
“Did you have a nightmare
about the crocodiles, that you
wake so early?” he sneered.
“Your memory gets too
short,” Niumi growled, reach-
ing for a ceremonial shinbone.
“It might be a good thing if
you wandered off into the bush
and stayed there before old-
age makes a complete fool of
you, but in the meantime you
can have the pleasure of round-
ing up some of your lackeys
and have them carry in the
tigress I have killed as
promised.”
And he emphasised his words
with a prod that shook the
medicine-man’s teeth.
The wily One-Fang was not
in favor of violence when it
involved himself, so he got
smartly up from his mat. It
was the work of but a few
minutes to organise a party of
excited villagers, and they soon
set off to where the tigress lay.
AS soon as NG’Ban and his
men stepped from the
trees, Niumi knew that the
party was somewhat spoiled,
but he greeted them politely
enough.
“Had I but known you were
about,” he said, “I need not
have troubled my friends. For
t am sure you would have
helped me to carry in my
kill.”
NG’Ban draped himself
easily on the long shaft of his
spear.
“Well,” he grinned, “since
we are all here no doubt you
will have no objection to help-
ing me carry mine in. Then
we will see about yours —if
you can find it.”
Niumi pointed to the carcass.
“It is easily found,” he said,
“for I left it here but an hour
ago.”
“Now you are talking,”
replied NG’Ban ; “that is all I
wanted to know. And perhaps
this will tell the rest of the
story.”
And as he spoke he stepped
forward and placed his spear-
hilt against the one that pro-
truded from the chest of the
tigress.
“See,” his voice was like ice
dripping in the old caves
beyond the mountains. “My
spear, that I carry home now
to stand in its rack-of-honor
beside the door of my hut.”
From the circle of faces
gathered about there was a
chorus of understanding, but
Niumi didn’t wait to hear it.
He melted into the under-
growth as a lightning-flash is
swallowed in a mountain
valley. The sound of his going
was like a high wind in the
palm-tops so that they had
little difficulty in following him,
turning his flight always
towards the river.
/"VNE-FANG scratched his
paunch thoughtfully for
a moment. Then he turned to
the grinning young bucks
behind him.
“This,” he said, “is a
lesson you would all do well
to remember when next you
are tempted to go hot-footing
out into the moonlight in
search of tiger and . . . er . . ,
other things. Just make very
sure that when you leave your
little lovebird you pick up
your own spear and not that
of her husband. As you have
seen, it is exceedingly difficult
to explain.”
He gestured contemptuously
to the identical hilts before
him.
“Come now, let us go home
before my appetite is spoiled
. . . but wait!”
He motioned them to silence.
And as they strained their
ears into the crisp morning
silence they could hear softly,
faintly drifting up from the
distant river, the deep, dark
bellow that a crocodile uses for
laughter.
RETIRED BY HARBOR
Those brazen statues dribbling green rust
Stave off the bay’s bright challenge to the blood;
Heaped in their load of surreptitious lust
Five limestone stallions prance their frozen stud;
Whirring the high cream blinds that slat the sun,
Sweeping the level lawns, the breezes run.
Rigid in the cane chair he sits, and sees
The lamp rise to the dipping of the glow;
Light spreading golden on the leafless trees,
The wrinkled stream that wanders far below;
Hymns, bawdy-songs, shocked voices close to tears
Stir in his mind the glitter of the shears.
Sipping the clay cup by the burning sill,
Behind him all those acres of red pain,
The bright and callous land marked with his will,
Shadowed with fleshless trees that iron plain;
Only the harbor where the white sails ride
Beckons him onward from his dark hillside.
He’ll dip there soon. The fleshless, bitter frame
Drifting in high clean waves that rinse away
Raw enterprise, the folly of a name,
Thrust challenges that sprang at break of day;
Harsh words that roused the sun: now whispers go
Onward and onward to that stream below.
N.S.W.
Charles Higham.


by a small spar falling from
aloft. At Samarang he
reported to a doctor, and,
on the medical advice, took his
discharge on July 18, 1887,
going at once to Singapore,
where he was in hospital for
some weeks.
After that, as a break from
the rigors of sail, he took what
was, for him, an easy berth ;
he joined as mate the small
steamer Vida, trading out of
Singapore. Her voyages were
short and confined to local seas.
Through her he came to know
the coasts of the Malay Archi-
pelago as few who have chosen
to write of them have known
them. Conrad’s stay in the
Vida restored his health, and
the five months he served in
her were vital in his life, for
if they did not actually incline
him to write, they determined
what he should write about.
In after years Conrad wrote :
“It is part of my sea life to
which my memory returns most
often, since there is nothing to
remember but what is good and
pleasant, but it was not a very
enterprising life for a man who
had served famous firms and
sailed famous ships.” He
became disenchanted, threw up
his congenial job and at Singa-
pore, quite unexpectedly,
received his first command, the
barque Otago.
The Otago was an iron
barque of 346 tons, built in
Glasgow in 1869 —the same
year as the Cutty Sark. The
former master of the Otago
had died whilst the vessel was
in the Gulf of Siam, and the
mate had navigated her into
Bangkok. The British Minister
there asked for a master to be
sent up from Singapore to take
command, no competent man
being available in Bangkok,
and Joseph Conrad, or Kor-
zeniowski as he was then, was
chosen for the post. His orders
were to take the Otago first to
Singapore and thence to Mel-
bourne.
Arriving in Bangkok he
found things anything but ship-
shape aboard the Otago. The
mate, gosd seaman as he had
once been, was soured by not
having been given command.
He was, in fact, a little daft.
The second-mate was useless,
and the crew were sick almost
to a man. It was only by a
strong effort of will-power that
Conrad got the ship to sea at all.
It took the Otago three
weeks to cover the 800-mile
passage to Singapore. She
arrived there more like a
derelict than an active vessel,
but the worst was over;
Conrad, by his resolution, had
surmounted considerable diffi-
culties, and the ship, once she
had an efficient crew, was all
he could have wished. Her
owners, Henry Simpson and
Sons, of Adelaide, were no
doubt surprised, perhaps a little
incredulous, at the . skill,
efficiency and loyalty of their
new captain with the strange
name of Korzeniowski.
The Otago left Singapore in
March, 1888, reaching Sydney
in May. Thence she proceeded
to Melbourne, Adelaide,
Sydney once more, then away
to Mauritius to load sugar. At
Adelaide Conrad had suggested
to the owners that the Otago
should sail by way of the
Torres Strait, though this
dangerous route was so rarely
used' by sailing-vessels that an
additional insurance premium
was required. The owners paid
this without demur.
Conrad, in the last year of
his life, wrote: “It was not
without a certain emotion that,
commanding very likely the
first, and certainly the last,
merchant sailing - ship that
carried a cargo that way, from
Sydney to Mauritius, I put her
head, at daybreak, for Bligh’s
Entrance and packed on every
bit of canvas she could carry.”
The Otago reached Mauritius
safely and returned to
Adelaide, where various con-
siderations decided him to
resign command and return
once more to Europe. With
his return there in May or June,
1889, Conrad had ended, except
for brief glimpses three years
later, his acquaintance with
Australia and the islands or
the East.
His final visit to Australia
was as chief-officer in the full-
rigged ship Torrens, which he
joined in November, 1891.
After completing two round
voyages to Australia in her, he
finally left her in London Dock
on October 15, 1893. In later
years, in Last Essays he wrote:
“I took a long look from the
quay of that last of ships I
ever had under my care, and,
stepping round the corner of a
tall warehouse, parted from
her for ever, and[ at the same
time stepped (in merciful
ignorance) out of my sea life
altogether.”
It was Conrad’s connection
with the Otago that prompted
him to write in a reminiscence
in 1924: “It lies with me to
confess that I have been all my
life —all my two lives—the
spoiled adopted child of Great
Britain, and even of the
Empire, for it was Australia
that gave me my first com-
mand. I met with nothing but
kindness from people there,
and for that young continent I
have acquired a great affec-
tion which will endure as long
as my faculty of memory itself
endures.”
Four months later Conrad
died. And now the hull of the
Otago has been sold, and is
being converted into scrap.
With her goes the last visible
maritime link with Conrad.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 463
Across
I—Sputnik state to inform it first. (9)
6 —Boxed 100 as editor. (5)
9—A little brother entrances repeals. (9)
HI —A silly chap and I in a Timor town. (5)
11— He takes the plunge —but it’s not quite enough for the
viceroy of Egypt. (7)
12 — Item of Moslem attire which makes ma shaky. (7)
14 — Agnes canonised a quadruped.
(4)
15 — Fuel talk. (3)
16— Tree like a writer. (5)
19 —Wading bird. (5)
21 — German town letters. (3)
22 It may cover a foot blow. (4)
24—Horseless legside figure. (7)
27 — Australian passenger vessel
located in Narooma. (7)
28— join a cricket team with half
of the cricket field character
bound to a fiery wheel in heaven.
(5)
29 Spirit finale is about to happen.
(9)
30— —Moslem potentate shortened them
always. (5)
31 — Drama of the turf is knockabout
fun. (9)
Down
1— Doesn’t work at all hard—but
pants, nevertheless. (6)
2 Who teaches a rocky mountain
teaser? (9)
3 Walking calf’s protection against
the bite of a snake with sex-
appeal. (7, 2)
4 King George leaves the gristle
fibre of the agave. (5)
5 Says sites are available from
Bacon and such writers. (9)
6 A hundred poems. They take
some deciphering. (5)
7 Moslem boy is miles up. (5)
8 — Boozing quack in ahead of a
majestic character. (8)
13 —Possesses ha-ha. (3)
15 — Queerly re-chewing a place noted
for its 18-dowtv (9)
16 — Nancy’s donkey makes a similar
sound. (9)
17 — An old trouble-maker on the
Scottish border, or one name-
sake of Jolson referring to draw-
ings and photographs. (9)
18— The enemy is niggardly in the
intervening period. (8)
20—Queen Elizabeth has a time of
length or importance: (3)
23 —Spotted cat to spoil the merry.
(6)
25 — Schnozzle interrupted by one
sound. (5)
26 — There's no hope of saving this
disorderly negro. (5)
27 — Roy Rene shortened by one who
mooches about. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 462


were a bit quiet until Mme. Prunier
bethought her of Princess Dolgoruki
and another former employer, a rabbi’s
daughter:—
Then the marvel happened. One
day the Rue Duphot was as quiet
as it had ever been.... but soon it
was alive with color and fashion, .
jingling with well-polished harnesses
.... There were Russian Grand
Dukes and French Ministers, stars
of the theatre and newspaper
editors, poets and leaders of
business.
Clemenceau, Bernhardt, Catulle
Mendes, Cora Pearl . . . and the firm
appeared in the restaurant-scene of the
Capus play “Les Deux Ecoles”—
maitres d’hotel, wine-waiters, etc., all
from Prunier’s, and on the opening
night, drawing “as much applause as
any of the actors,” M. Prunier himself
supervised the service.
Mme. Prunier’s father, Emile, had
not wanted to go into his father’s
restaurant. He had got a draughts-
man’s job in a firm of gun-founders;
but his father called on him, and
argued him out of it, and in very little
time, when the old man died, he had
to buy the business in from the relatives
who had shares in it, and having thus
put his shoulder to the pot he proved
to be the really great Prunier.
He constantly enlarged the seating-
capacity, pushing the place upwards
and sideways; he hung the walls with
Impressionist pictures; he increased the
family’s fish-delivery business and then
established a large fish-shop, where
customers could also be served simple
meals. After the First World War he
established the new branch-restaurant
in the Rue Traktir.
A house-rule in Prunier’s was that
if you didn’t begin with oysters they
wouldn’t serve you, so that when in
1906 various authorities blamed the
typhoid epidemic on oysters (very much
as cancer is now blamed on tobacco)
Prunier’s was as heavily involved as
the 300,000 French fisherfolk who
were dependent on shellfish for a
living. Emile Prunier formed an
oyster-cultivation association, set up a
laboratory to give safety-certificates to
growers, and after World War I saw
the organisations he had established
taken over by the French Government
as Government departments.
Not only did he import oysters from
England, but live fish from all over
the Continent. He found how to keep
them alive in tanks with oxygen, and
customers could go in and choose their
fish while they were still swimming
about. And then he reorganised the
French sturgeon-industry, and after the
First World War, when the Germans,
who controlled the world’s caviare,
could no longer pay in gold, Emile
Prunier did a deal with the Soviet and
became the new Caviare King.
In 1925 he died, and Madame
Prunier, aged 22, succeeded him. She
was married to young Mr. Bamagaud,
who took the name Barnagaud-Prunier
for the sake of the business. In Paris,-
the firm had always moved westward
in opening new premises, and Mme.
Prunier kept up the tradition by open-
ing in London, and later fought an
action against a firm which had set-up
as “Prunier’s” in New York, in case
the next westward move might be
across the Atlantic.
The book is full of anecdotes and
big names; how, for instance, a tactful
maitre-d’hotel saved a prince who was
late for lunch with his mother from
scarification by heading him off to a
chemist’s, having his ankle bandaged,
and having him hobble in with
apologies for his sprained ankle. There
is a most learned disquisition on the
rigid hierarchy of French service:
maitre d’hotel, chef de brigade,
garcon (waiter), commis de rang
(under - waiter), commis (waiter’s
helper, who continues to serve a dish
after the waiter has begun) and commis
debarrasseur (clearer-away). There is
an account of a journey she made into
the Balkans, seeking new supplies of
caviare; and a long and exciting
account of her preparations to open in
London in January of 1935—h0w she
got one of London’s biggest advertis-
ing tycoons on the board; how the
opening was so successful that the
number of people who wanted to eat
there thereafter was a constant
embarrassment to her; how, having
fixed a table for the Prince of Wales,
she began to wave away Mrs. Simpson,
who came in first and alone . . .
Like all shop-talk by experts with
practical experience and a long history
of experience, it makes first-rate
entertainment.
Poems by Pixie O'Harris
Though there is a pleasant ballad-
like incantation of placenames in it,
Pixie O’Harris’s “Mrs. Webber” looks
at first glance merely like yet another
attempt to write the poem about decay-
ing pioneers or their houses which
every Australian poet for the last
hundred years has sooner or later felt
obliged to write and which Judith
Wright has done in final perfection.
And no doubt “Mrs. Webber” is
influenced by Judith Wright:—
At Kyabra, near Thylungra,
Mrs. Webber’s iron will
Sent the men to herd the cattle,
Bent the creek around the hill.
But Mrs. Webber is a ghost; and in
one nightmarish, half-humorous touch,
Pixie O’Harris has something new to
say about her:—
At Kyabra, near Thylungra,
There’s a mirror in the hall,
It reflects her indignation
That she is not real at all.
And so “Mrs. Webber” provides one
of those moments in Pixie O’Harris’s
new little book of poems, The Town
of Flowers (Arthur H. Stockwell, Ltd.),
that must make the reader who thinks
of her only as a writer of fairytales
or lightly romantic verses, think again.
In two poems, particularly “The
Passage” and “Introspection,” both
apparently based on dreams and
perhaps influenced by Walter de la
Mare, she passes beyond fancy into
vision:—
The jet-black avalanche is ripe to
slide
Through long ploughed hills
That cross and cross again into a
distant distance.
That light behind the mountains is
too far.
Ringing out in circles from that
sky . . .
It is too high.
I am outlined in red, I, I, and I.
Automation
Man and Automation is a Penguin
by L. Landon Goodman, a technologist
who obviously knows his subject and,
moreover, has an immense enthusiasm
for it.
He says that automation is not an
end but a beginning and that new
techniques will inevitably be invented
which will make automation look as
hopelessly old-fashioned as the methods
of the Stone Age men look to us now.
By inserting a punched card into a
machine a solitary individual can start
a thousand processes going which will
end up in a tin of well-cooked and
tasty biscuits being projected, along
with ten thousand others exactly like
it, into a lorry ready for consumption
and not another human individual, not
even a chef, will intervene between his
pressing of the button and the delivery
of the finished product.
Automation, says Goodman, will
add up the rows of figures relevant to
the biscuits as well as work out more
complicated problems of mathematics
in a split-second which a hundred
clerks couldn’t nut out in a genera-
tion; and if it makes a mistake it
knows it and can go back and
correct it.
It can not only mix and cook a
pudding, hew coal and move moun-
tains, but it can solve psychological
problems. It is peculiarly apt at pick-
ing up any hesitation in speech, blush,
increase of blood-pressure, etc., in a
person charged with subversive
activities like murder or s.p. betting.
However, it really hasn’t developed
very far as a psychologist yet, and is


s*
books from GRAMME'S -
best for CHRISTMAS!
A delightful range of local and imported
Greeting Cards.
Gift Books and Standard Authors for
adults and children in exciting profusion.
JL. For the music lover—a choice selection of
L.P. Classical Records and music scores.
Ask or write for a copy of our illustrated
Gift Catalogue.
FOR A HAPPY CHRISTMAS GIVE BOOKS FROM
THE GRAHAME BOOK CO.
Cnr. Martin Place & Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BW 2261.
still best at relieving the worker of
the drudgery of working. An automatic
plant in U.S.A., controlled elec-
tronically from a central panel,
produces, Goodman says, mixed and
ready-to-use concrete and no manual
labor is employed at any point what-
ever in the process. A controller is
informed by teleprinter or radio what
particular mix is to be delivered and
loaded into each lorry as it arrives.
He selects a punched card for that mix,
feeds it into the card-reader and then
the automatic controls take over. Thus
the controller, by means of the cards,
can deliver concrete of any one of
1500 different mixing formulae at a
rate of 200 cubic yards per hour.
NEW SPRING
The slender willow lashes
Are faintly touched with green;
A moorhen calls, and splashes
Among the reeds unseen.
In time past unembittered
We walked along this bank;
I threw flat stones that skittered
And bounced before they sank.
Still full of clouds and willows
The water spreads its gleam;
A dabchick dives; the swallows
Circle above the stream.
If now our thoughts move sadly
It’s not that we grow old,
But that we grow old badly,
Shamed at the heart and cold.
Undimmed the fount of being
With freshness overflows;
Beasts drink their life unseeing,
The wise heart drinks and knows.
N.S.W.
Janies McAuley.
The Double-baifed
Mouse-trap
The trouble about .modern literature
is that it comes too late, that
practically everything worth doing
has been done already—as was first
pointed out just on a thousand years
ago.
Of course that isn’t necessarily fatal
-—the old truths can be successfully
restated, provided the restatement has
enough force and freshness. The
proviso, however, imposes a hurdle
which only the first-rate writer in his
best moments can surmount. It is
tough on the worthy second-class
writer or the first-rater in his off
moments; and any literature needs
contributions from such sources if it
is to have enough body in it.
I have been moved to formulate this
half-truth whole-platitude by seeing a
revival of the talkie “Fallen Idols,”
based on a story by Graham Greene.
Coming out of the theatre I met a
highbrow acquaintance—one of the
nicer ones, who condescends to talk to
me. I doubt if he will again, though.
Incautiously I said that I had enjoyed
the picture; and it was the Wrong
Thing to say.
The original story from which the
picture is taken ends with a tragi-
ironic twist of the plot. The picture
substitutes a happy ending, though it
retains something of the irony. My
friend was horrified by this vulgarisa-
tion. For ten minutes he inveighed
against the degrading influence of
Hollywood on our standards of
integrity. . I did not make matters any
better by suggesting that the picture
was made in England, anyway. I
should have known that, in highbrow
usage, Hollywood is a symbol, not a
place.
There was, of course, a good deal
of truth in my friend’s contention.
Between the two endings there is not
much to choose from the point of view
of probability, or as expressions of
differing visions of the nature of life.
One does, however, recoil from the
picture’s ending, when one is aware
that it contradicts the author’s original
intention, and that the commercially-
motived aim of the change is to keep
things comfy for a timid-minded
suburban audience.
I think I should have felt this way
myself if I had not remembered how
Greene’s original story had affected me.
The ground-plan of that tale is
suggested in the first half; thereafter the
interest mainly depends on the question
of what solution the author will
provide. Being an old hand at the
game, I had little doubt about that. I
knew that Graham Greene was
officially classed as a Serious Writer;
apd therefore I knew that he could not
use the happy ending. It would be
altogether too corny, too suggestive of
commercial intention; Greene would
have to play the game for his side, old
boy, and do the decent highbrow thing
—pessimism with a touch of irony is
what the well-bred chaps are wearing
this season. So the butler in that story
would have to go to the gallows, and
probably he would be sent there
through an unwitting betrayal by his
small-boy worshipper. You didn’t
have to wait for the story’s ending to
know it.
I intend no sneer at Graham Greene
—in fact, I admire the sincerity and
intelligence of his best work and his
rare mastery of the art of narrative. I
am merely pointing to a dilemma of
the serious writer of today (on second
thoughts, capital letters for that phrase
conveys an unjust suggestion). He
seldom dares to use the happy ending,
because its overuse in the past and its
commercial suggestion make it seem
a dangerous cliche. Once one knows
that, the unhappy ending becomes also
a cliche. It refuses to suggest that it
has welled up from a compulsion in the
writer’s mind, as it did when Thomas
Hardy thrust his determined and
unfashionable gloom on the Victorian
reader.
Of course, when a writer is saying
what he has learned from life with
real strength, the current of his writing
will carry the reader over the quick-
sands of such reflection; but what of
the writer who lacks a full force? How
can he escape the dilemma? Can he,
perhaps, leave the story hanging on an
inconclusive conclusion, spiced with a
flavor of irony?
That, indeed, is often the con-
temporary writer’s solution of the
problem; and that is rapidly becoming
the most dismal cliche of the lot.
Arthur Phillips.


■
i.y* :r.
ML*
&
W44M
4/ v. ':4c
* \
4:4 .
•• •:•
'
- ■ -■
Bad roads are costing you plenty!
A bad road caused this accident. A tight, blind bend
... the edge of the road crumbling and treacherous . . .
the screech of tyres . . . the smash.
You can’t add up in money the value of human
suffering and misery caused through bard roads. But
you can add up the economic cost to the community.
It is a staggering figure running into millions of
pounds each year. And do you know who pays this bill ?
It’s you who pays—whether you are a car owner or not.
Bad roads take money from your pocket in many
ways, both directly and indirectly—property damage,
higher vehicle insurance costs, increasing wear and
tear on your vehicle. But, most important of all, bad
roads push up road transport costs which, in turn,
force up your cost of living. In Australia 76 per cent
of all freight is carried by road transport. When out-
moded roads cause road transport break-downs,
freight is delayed. Up go costs of consumer goods.
It is estimated that the cost of freight is 6/- in every
pound you spend on consumer goods. Good roads
would substantially reduce this freight cost —even
by half.
We need a blueprint for better roads—NOW!
Australia has the engineers, the manpower and the
ingenuity to build good roads. What is urgently
required is an Australian National Roads Authority,
a single body backed by the necessary powers and
funds. This could be the first step to ensure that our
road construction programme keeps pace with other
phases of national development. Such an Authority
could co-ordinate the plans of existing state and shire
road-making bodies who are doing their best under
great financial difficulties.
Good roads don’t cost —they pay !
CATERPILLAR
K 243
•caterpillar and cat
ARE REGISTERED TRADE
MARKS OF CATERPILLAR
TRACTOR CO., U.S.A.
When you think of
better roads think of
the big yellow machines
that help build them.
CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA P T Y., LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
