

I
sepp e^
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
Thermal Wonders of Australia
Wednesday, June 12, 1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
IN ST. DAVID'S CATHEDRAL,
PEMBROKESHIRE
NEAR the .bold promontory of St. David’s Head,
in Pembrokeshire, the most westerly point
in Wales, stands St. Davids Cathedral —the cradle
of Welsh Christianity. The location of the
cathedral and the nearby village on (be plateau
above St. Bride’s Bay are worthy of their proud
place in the annals of Wales.
The cathedral is a comparatively small building,
being 21)0 feet in length, and was built in the
Transitional-Norman style of the 12th and 14th
centuries. Restoration has given the outside of
the cathedral a somewhat severe and plain appear-
ance which is in striking contrast to the richly-
decorated interior.
An attractive feature of the cathedral is the
elaborately carved and painted ceiling, and one of
the most perfect examples of . medieval carving
can be seen in the choir screen which is renowned
for its beauty. It was built in the 14th century
by Bishop Cower, whose tomb and recumbent
elfigy stand nearby. One of the richly-carved stalls
is reserved for the reigning sovereign, and was
occupied recently by Queen Elizabeth II on a
visit to St. David’s.
Here, too, can be seen the Bishop’s Throne,
which is nearly thirty feet high and’ is one of
few remaining medieval examples in Britain. On
the north side of the Presbytery is the late 13th-
century Shrine of St. David, founder of the
cathedral about the year 550. Since then there
have been a hundred and twenty-one bishops of
St. David’s, and there are fifty-three churches in
Wales dedicated to his memory.
St. David was born the north shore of St.
Bride's Bay, and the chapel dedicated to his
mother is reputed to mark the actual place of his
birth; it is the oldest ecclesiastical building still
standing in Wa'les,
No. 353: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


BOOKHBNTJER, Box 2 <571, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text; book, bioprnphy. history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
"ONE MAN WAR"
Few more remarkable stories have
come out of World War II than Hal
Richardson’s One Man War' (Angus
and Robertson). It is the true story
of a man who escaped from Changi
after the fall of Singapore and fought
on as a guerrilla in the Philippines.
The man was Jock McLaren, a Scot
who came to Australia after fighting in
World War I. He died from accident
in New Guinea in 1956 when rotted
timber fell on him near his home at
Wau. Mr. Richardson—who had
himself been a p.-0.-w. and was after-
wards a war correspondent in Korea—
wrote the book during McLaren’s life-
time and had the use of his notes and
reminiscences. There is an excellent
foreword, confirming the story and
briefly telling a few similar exploits, by
Brigadier J. D. Rogers.
The book so teems with adventure
and excitement, with one daring exploit
after another, that, obviously authentic
though it all is, you have to remember
that the fighting Scotch are a race apart
to believe it. One of McLaren’s
favorite devices, for instance, when
towards the end of the war he had the
job of finding out whether or not small
outlying islands were still occupied by
the Japanese, was to paddle in alone
in his canoe, camp on the beach and
light a fire: if the Japanese were there
they would shoot him; if they weren’t,
they wouldn’t.
He was recaptured after he escaped
from Changi. He and two other men
—Ginger Burnett and a Queenslander
named Wilkie—wriggled under the wire
on the Friday after the surrender, stole
a sampan and, with shovels for
paddles, set sail for Burma. When the
sampan sank they hobnobbed for a
while with Chinese Communist
guerrillas, then set out again overland
towards Thailand, only to be betrayed
by a Malay—“ ‘You are worth twenty-
five dollars each to us, gentlemen,’ the
first Malay informed them.”
The second -escape, which kept
McLaren in perilous freedom until the
war ended* was from Berhala Island,
near Sandakan, in Borneo, whither he
had been transferred with other A.I.F.
prisoners from Changi. His com-
panions this time were Jim Kennedy
from Victoria and Rex Butler, a South
Australian who ’had been a buffalo-
shooter in the Territory; and they
arranged to escape the same night as
did another party under Lieutenant
Blow. Blow planned to get a native
crew to sail him out; McLaren had his
eye on a dugout used by a neighboring
leper-colony for fishing; and both
parties were heading for the island of
Tawi Tawi, east of Sandakan, where
guerrillas were still fighting.
McLaren’s war began again—or
very nearly did —with the lepers who
came screaming and gibbering down
through the night to stop their boat
being stolen.
Front, then on he was with the
guerrillas of the Philippines: harrying
the Japanese, reporting on the move-
ments of their ships, which were
promptly sunk by American sub-
marines. It was a life never free from
danger, and McLaren seems to have
revelled in every minute of it. If he
can hardly be said to have enjoyed the
occasion when —using a razor-blade
and a mirror—he operated on himself,
without anaesthetics, for appendicitis,
at least that tremendous chapter is
typical of his spirit; and if the wild
fight in the jungle on page 108 is hot
wholly typical of the book —for he
didn’t usually fight naked—it is pretty
close to it:—
Night came, and McLaren stripped,
as was his custom these days, to
sleep in comfortable nakedness....
The Moro sentry stiffened and
/rubbed his eyes. Into a clearing
below him stepped a Japanese. He
jog-trotted quickly up the trail
through the thinly-held defensive-arc
towards the sleeping headquarters,
while close behind him, rifle at the
alert, went another Japanese scout.
The Moro woke his sleeping com-
panion, and, soundless as shadows,
they slipped back to where McLaren
lay asleep. He sat bolt upright, his
hand reaching for his B.A.R. as they
touched him. In a moment his men
were following him through the trees.
They saw the main Japanese body
advancing quickly and silently uphill
towards the guerrilla headquarters.
They watched from cover till the
Japanese reached a clearing round a
native house. Then McLaren
shouted “Fire!” and the night split
open.
With the moonlight gleaming on
his long thin naked body, McLaren
dodged from tree to tree, splitting
the night with fire from his 8.A.R.,
while his Moros shouted like mad
demons behind him. The Japanese
milled in panic.,. .Eventually they
reorganised themselves and laid a
barrage of mortar-bombs around
their position. McLaren called his
Moros off, and, grabbing up his
clothing, went back into the jungle,
leaving at least forty Japanese dead
behind.
After scores of such adventures—
including attacking the Japanese from
the sea in an armed whaleboat;
challenging them by letter to meet him
in open, combat on the beach (which
they did); being landed by Catalina in
Brunei Bay and blowing-up a train, a
bridge and then four trains sheltering
in -a tunnel; and parachuting into
Balikpapan Bay to study, amidst
ambushes, the defences and the
Japanese escape-routes in preparation
for the imminent Allied invasion—
McLaren finished his war with an
M.C. and bar, the rank of captain and
a price of 70,000 Japanese pesos on his
head.
With something of the simplicity,
compactness and vividness of T. A. G.
Hungerford’s “The Ridge and the
River,” always direct and often
humorous, Richardson could hardly
have told his story better; and he could
hardly have found a better story to tell.
DAWN AND DAME MARGOT
These dawns are lit by sun and frost
And shadows leave a painted ghost;
The springs are frozen over hard;
Yet on the ice a matchstick bird
Turns upon his shadow there
And cracks a tiny whip of air,
Dancing to his pointed image
As if upon a lighted stage.
Oh, I’d give much for Margot Fonteyn
To dance *ht dawn upon our mountain,
But since she is not likely to
This matchstick bird will have to do.
A.C.T.
David Campbell.
South Seas Legends
It has often been lamented, par-
ticularly no doubt by those who wish
to write for children, that no fairies
were convicted and sent out to us
from England; nor, so far as is known,
did any come out as immigrants, even
from Ireland. Thus our literature
lacks the light of fantasy and other-
worldliness that has illuminated
English literature from Shakspeare to
De la Mare, and our writers turn to
dull social realism.
But what, after all, are fairies?
Discounting the more far-fetched
reports, it seems pretty clear that they
have never been more than primitive,
aboriginal peoples, like the Piets, dis-
possessed by more powerful invaders
and driven into the mountains to
become figures of mystery and
romantic speculation. And surely,
wherever the European has set foot
on the lands south of the Equator,
there are enough dispossessed
aboriginals.
Longman’s The Boomerang Book of
Legendary Tales, edited by Enid
Moodie Heddle, a collection of folk-
tales and fairytales from many of our
(i Continued on page 58)


* m
the Internationa AS- 60 series
xm m
WMM
E?*
M
%7\
if
If you are looking at medium—heavy duly trucks,
see the compact International ASC-160 Cab-Forivard
Models and the International ASW-160 Four Wheel
Drive for difficult off-highioay work. There is an
International truck to exactly meet your job require-
menu.
INTERNATIONAL AS-162 WITH
TIPPING BODY
INTERNATIONAL AS-160,
TRAY BODY
** * * whichever way you look at them!
&
INTERNATIONAL AS-162 SEMI-TRAILER
Truck operators who have been struck by pro-
hibitive running costs should closely examine the
International AS-160 Series as dependable, money-
makers. You can expect maximum reliability from
the AS-160 Series because these trucks have been
hammered through “Trial by Torture” tests, the
toughest engineering tests in Australia. You can
expect —and get —more work willingness and econ-
omy from their Australian Black Diamond Engines.
Wh.chever way you look at the International
AS-160 Series Trucks—as a maintenance man, a
driver —or in the credit balance in your account
books —they are a mighty proposition.
Can we back our statement with facts and figures ?
Certainly ! Call at the International Harvester
Office or your nearest I.H. Dealer and we’ll give
them to you with pleasure.
ALL TRUCK-BUILT FROM THE GROUND UP!
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY.
LTD
FMT-755/36


"FREEDOM IS A RAINBOW"
A Novel of the Hungarian Revolt
In next weelfs issue The Bulletin
will begin publishing “Freedom Is
a Rainbow,” an authentic, soul-
shaking novel of the Hungarian
revolt of October-Nov ember last
year.
Stephen Kelen, a Hungarian now
living in Australia, is the author,
and the background of the story is
the actual development, the grimly,
desperately heroic outbreak and the
final Soviet crushing of the freedom-
bid made by Hungarians in Budapest
in the closing months of last year.
The characters are the everyday
people of Budapest, and the reader
is taken with them into their homes y
into their daily lives, into the street-
battles, and, finally, into their bid
for escape to freedom in another
country.
“Freedom Is a Rainbow” is an
intensely gripping story. By the
nature of its theme it is a shocking
story to people used to the Australian
way of life. But it is a story every
Australian should read.
Exclusive to “The Bulletin”—-
"FREEDOM IS A RAINBOW"—
beginning in the issue of June 19.
The Bulletin
Vol. 78—No. 4035
Wednesday, June 12, 1957
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man’’
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queens: .vnd: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
"LET'S RAISE OUR SIGHTS"
THE slogan is that of Mr. R. G. Casey,
produced in a speech in Melbourne as
a prelude to a plea “for an increased
interest on the part of every Aus-
tralian in the national affairs of
Australia.”
His speech was refreshing as an
antidote to the unhealthy Socialist
view which has been growing up under
the influence of Governments, includ-
ing at times Mr. Casey’s own, that the
ordinary man merely has to leave
everything to Canberra, the Cahills and
the Gairs and the continent will boom.
There is certainly room for a revival
of the public attitude of the years that
followed the discovery of gold and
went before the First World War.
The two decades before World
War II are a depressing period to view
historically—a period in which Gov-
ernments bowed-down to the demands
of unions that there should be no
immigration to threaten “living
standards”; in which growth was rela-
tively dormant and the issues in
politics centred round the struggle for
power between Commonwealth and
States, between Communism and
moderation.
Industries began to become moribund
under the burden of two competing
taxation - systems and the regular
impact of attempts by the Gardens and
their kind to wreck private enterprise
and replace it with a Muscovite
Socialism.
Conditions were produced in the end
which weren’t far from being as bad as
those of the sodden years of the hungry
eighteen-forties, before the discovery
and exploitation of gold resources
generated a national and enterprising
spirit which gave the continent in a
generation wide exploration, expan-
sion of trade, coastal shipping, rail-
ways, an education-system, public-
health systems and the urge to a
national Federation in politics.
Behind all the expansion was what
Mr. Casey calls, in relation to the
present period, the “conscious effort”
of the Australian Governments. But it
differed from the effort of the present
in that Government action mostly was
developed by the drive of public
opinion expressed through such
bodies as the A.N.A. and a literature
and a press which devoted themselves
earnestly to thinking ahead of
Ministries and Parliaments.
Mr. Casey points out, in effect, that
rapid development needs both Govern-
ments and a vigorous public opinion
behind them “giving more attention
and impetus to the Government than
they are doing.”
Most of the growth of the fifty years
that began round 1850 was generated in
the minds of private thinkers and the
pace forced by public agitation; but
today nearly everything in the way of
major expansion is being born in the
minds either of Governments or of big
corporations.
The interest of the man-in-the-street
in national progress seems to have
given way to an interest in TV, racing,
professional sport, pleasure-motoring
and similar diverting pastimes. Public
concern about government is mani-
fested chiefly through pressure-groups
engaged in a fight over regulations,
taxation or sectional privilege.
There are no national fights going
on on broad and unselfish principles
and not based on self-interest. The
battles current are mostly directed
towards the aim of somebody to get
something more out of the economy
rather than to put something into it.
As Mr. Casey remarks;—
Too many people are looking on the
1950’s in the same way that they looked
on the 1920’s and 1930’5. The simple
fact is that the 1950’5, so far as Aus-
tralia is concerned, are wholly different
from the 1920’s and 1930’5.
[Now] .... one can say without
exaggeration that we are faced with the
issue of ensuring our national survival.
....We have a better chance....if
Government and people work together.
One matter in which he calls for
community co-operation is the drought,
of which, after eleven successive good
seasons, he thinks, “on the laws of
chance.... we are going to have at
least within a year or two.” About this,
he says, “nobody can sit back com-
fortably” and think that it affects the
pastoral industry only, or that only the
pastoral industry and the Governments
can do anything to mitigate its effects.
He suggests that a general policy of
saving in advance to enable the country
to meet the impact might help.
So it would —especially if Govern-
ments and civil servants took the
warning to. heart and the unions
realised that saving in reverse, in the
form of a slightly longer working-week
and less disruption in key industries
affecting exports and the cost of
production, might be a vital factor in
preventing recession.
As it is, Australians in general
appear to be very fast coming to the
point at which they regard themselves
as the privileged pensioners of the rest
of the world, able to sit back and
disregard natural economic laws.
Our opportunities and latent
resources are vast; so is the need for
population producing population
and the opportunity to use the
reservoir of exceptional talent which
is at present going elsewhere or giving
its brains to external projects because
there is no real opening in Australia.
Some States, of course, show differ-
ent spirits from others. There is more
general concern about development in
South Australia and Victoria than in
New South Wales, where everything
is tied to the interests of shabby
politics which pollute the outlook of
the whole Commonwealth.


HOVERING


PLAIN ENGLISH
"An All-in Go"
N. S. Wales Labor approaches its annual
conference at the end of this week in
shockingly bad shape and smeared with
enough mud to smother a herd of
elephants.
It has in office an illegal executive. It
has had the edges chipped or eroded off
it through arbitrary expulsions, with the
Democratic Labor Party forming on the
outer.
The smell of drive-in theatres and the
Sydney City Council in which a Labor
alderman, A. J. Cahill, was suddenly
turfed-out of caucus last week without
apparent trial and with no explanation
was high. The Lord Mayor was currently
yelling that there would be no corruption
in the party in the council —he was more
than 30 years too late.
Labor’s reputation in municipal politics
in and around Sydney, what with events
in the City, Bankstown, Leichhardt and
other places, has been almost as bad as
that of Tammany in old New York or
modern Boston.
The State A.L.P. is embarrassed by the
headv/ay made by the Communists, thanks
to the help, in particular, of Federal
Labor. Currently the Reds and A.L.P.
in Victoria are working in absolute har-
mony in a united front for control of
the A.R.U.; in Sydney union-politics are
disrupted by the demand of various
unions that the law shall be observed and
union-money shall not be handed in large
quantities to political funds. This is all
right with some Leftist unions who hate
the Cahill Government more than they
hate the Liberals. The Communists
everywhere have their heads up and, in
view of their accord with Dr. Evatt and
his Federal A.L.P., they see the Red light
on the hill shining brightly and can look
forward at the next Federal elections to
having at least a few undercover candi-
dates with A.L.P. endorsement and per-
haps a united front, in disguise, similar
to that which is being worked at union
elections.
Unions themselves are disrupted by the
fight between Groupers and the Left-wing
and by the pressure-group tactics which
some leaders are in favor of using
against employers whom they are
threatening in the interests of the illegal
fight for compulsory-unionism.
There is an increasing resistance to
strikes as the economy slows up. Trans-
port unions in Sydney at the weekend
decided to dislocate as many industries as
possible in the metropolis to protest
against the hold-up of a new award till an
appeal against it is heard ; they announced
that they would have “25 carloads of
officials on the road to see that the stop-
page is observed.” This advertises both
the extent of the horde of parasites who
are battening on the workers of the
industry and the lack of enthusiasm of
those who have been ordered to loaf.
In all the circumstances the A.L.P.
conference promises an exhibition of
manoeuvre for advantage which would
make Machiavelli’s ghost blush, followed
by an all-in scrap for power between
the Communist Left, the opportunists
of the “caretaker” executive and the
industrial-groupers. As there will be
about 800 present and there’ll be no rules
except those that can be made to stick,
and no quarter given, it is unlikely to
provide an edifying spectacle.
Justice and Fowls
One of the most controversial Victorian
court cases for many years has
ended with the release from prison of
Gordon McKay, of Glenroy, who shot
an intruder when he caught him stealing
fowls on his father’s poultryfarm oh
September 9 last year.
McKay, charged with murder, was
found guilty of manslaughter, sentenced
to three years’ imprisonment, and, on
appeal, to 18 months’, although Harry
Winneke, Q.C., the Solicitor-General (and
general adviser to the Bolte Government)
had suggested to the Appeals Court that
his release on bond should be considered.
The Full High Court refused further leave
to appeal.
During the legal arguments after his
conviction, the McKay poultryfarm was
raided by thieves, as it had been con-
tinually before the shooting; angry
poultryfarmers raised funds for McKay’s
appeals, and petitions for his release ; the
newspapers asked for a clear definition
of the circumstances in which a person
could justifiably shoot a felon on his
property and supported the case foi
McKay’s release.
Attorney-General Rylah, as the agita-
tion began to show signs of assuming
uncomfortable proportions, submitted a
special release order to Sir Edmund
Herring, and the Lieut.-Governor, exer-
cising his prerogative of mercy, signed
McKay’s release after he had been in jail
five months.
It is now unlikely, so well-deserved an
airing did the sufferings of poultry-
farmers from thieves get during the legal
and public trials of McKay, that intruders
who steal 80 birds in a night, as one did
some years ago, will again escape with a
£lO fine.
New Defence Deal
[From Canberra]
How would the average Australian react
if the Government offered America full
use of the rocket-range at Woomera and
atomic proving-grounds at Maralinga
and the Monte Bello Islands.in exchange
for millions-of-dollars-worth of essential
defence equipment, including guided-
missiles? If a show of hands could settle
such a point we would probably find all
but a handful of Comrades, fellow-
travellers, Evattites and duped church-
men strongly in favor. In fact the
majority would be relieved if such a sen-
sible approach could lead to the pooling
of all Anglo-American atomic research.
Federal Cabinet is obviously with this
majority, but can do little about it unless
Britain and America are happy to work
together. And this week it appeared that
agreement in principle at least has been
reached as a sequel to the U.S. visit of
Britain’s Defence Minister Duncan
Sandys. It will be recalled that at the
time Mr. Sandys was reported to have
offered Woomera facilities to America as
part of a joint U.S.-U.K. defence-
agreement.
Mr. Menzies naturally denied the report
on the ground that Mr. Sandys would
not make such an arrangement without
first consulting the Australian Govern-
ment, but he did not rule out the possi-
bility of Britain’s Defence Minister can-
vassing the idea as perhaps something the
Americans could put up to Australia.
He said quite plainly: “I don’t think any
Australian would be very unhappy if
he thought that the United States was
prepared to join in with the United
Kingdom and Australia in respect of
guided-missiles research at Woomera. I
certainly can’t imagine that that would
do any harm to Australia’s position.”
Now the wheel has taken another turn
and Australia’s Defence Minister Sir
Philip Mcßride is in the U.S. having top-
level discussions with American defence
authorities. Mcßride is leading a mission
which is arranging for the purchase of
£IOO-million-worth of modern equipment
for our armed forces. It is understood
he has the P.M.’s authority to offer joint
use of Australia’s testing-grounds as part
of the price.
Menzies has repeatedly stated in public
and in private that it seems a calamity
that there should not be complete co-
ordination between the U.S. and Britain
on research and development in the
military field. Co-ordination would cut
millions off the costs of the separate
efforts going ahead in the West to combat
the single effort of Russia.
More Disturbance
[By “Ek Dum”]
The complications and paradoxes which
plague the Mediterranean situation would
give a headache to the hardest Fulbright
investigator.
A few of the things that happened last
week:
(1) The National Liberation Front in
Algeria slaughtered 300 Moslems at least
in a massacre in a village 100 miles
south of Algiers. The village had been so
ill-advised as to ask protection from
French troops. The Liberation Front is
supposed to be a Moslem movement, but
actually has Nasser and Moscow behind
it.
(2) The British handed over the Mafrak
air-base to Jordan and King Hussein
made a speech praising the good faith of
the British —fathers of colonialism —and
attacking the “destructive elements”
which had “penetrated the Army and
public ranks” and had “almost made this
country and her sisters humiliated States
at the mercy of world Communism,
replacing imperialism by a second
imperialism.” He said nothing about the
third imperialism of the U.S. Sixth Fleet.
Jordan, during the week, banned Egyptian
newspapers.
(3) The city of Beirut, capital of
Lebanon, has been plunged in riot during


the election campaign—June 9 was elec-
tion day—as the result of a strike
organised by the predominantly Moslem
opposition in an attempt to force the
fall of the Government. The former
Prime Minister, Saeb Salam, went to
hospital with a bandaged head as the
result of his part in the shindy.
It was reported that £200,000 of
Egyptian money had been distributed in
Beirut, along with Communist arms from
Syria. Cairo, Moscow and Damascus
radios have all been doing their best to
inflame Lebanon to the point of civil
war. The Lebanon Government is
described on these radios as “the tool of
imperialism and the United States.”
(4) While the verdicts at the “British
spy-trials” are awaited this week in Cairo,
the Egyptians have announced that the
British have agreed to release adequate
funds to enable Egypt to obtain “con-,
sumer goods, machines, raw materials
and spare parts from the U.K. and other
sterling-area countries”—orders placed
before July 28, 1956,. when Egyptian
funds in the U.K. were frozen. Nasser
can expect an to the grouse-
shooting at Balmoral at any moment.
The most illuminating bits of news,
however, concern local reactions to one
phase of the “liquidation of imperialism”
in Malta, Singapore, Hong Kong and
Gibraltar. The squeals of the locals about
the unemployment that is going to be
caused by the cutting-down of naval
dockyard staffs can be heard round the
globe.
Sydney's City Fathers
Whatever else Sydney citizens may say
about their City Council, they can’t
complain that it gives them nothing to
talk about. Take the last few weeks.
To begin with there was the little matter
of the New Zealand tourists. This fact-
finding mission, first planned as a five-
aldermen job, dwindled to a three-man
assignment when non-Labor aldermen
declined to accept nomination on the
ground that the trip was unwarranted.
Next, with Ernie O’Dea finding urgent
business nearer home, it was reduced to
a duo-act. Now it’s doubtful whether
the trip will come off at all. The Lord
Mayor’s world tour is also on the
doubtful list.
Next there was the question of council
rents. Following some prodding by
Liberal aldermen the council had had
some of its house and flat property fair-
rented, the court granting substantial
increases. Caucus then decided that the
increases would be applied Only in part.
There’d be no increases for pensioners ;
half the authorised increase for other
tenants; full increases for shops and
business premises. When it was revealed
that at least two of the homes to be
given the benefit of the half-concession
were occupied by Labor aldermen,
another by a Labor M.L.A. (a former
alderman) and several by council
employees, Liberal, Civic Reform and
Democratic Labor aldermen indicated
that they intended to oppose the conces-
sion, and there was a suggestion that
the two New Zealand-bound aldermen
might have to be kept back to save the
day for caucus as an inconsiderate Local
Government Act would prevent the two
fair-rented aldermen from voting on their
own case.
While this matter was still undecided,
Lord Mayor Jensen announced that he
had asked the Police Commissioner to
investigate allegations of bribery against
two Labor aldermen (unnamed). The
police report reached the Lord Mayor on
Thursday and was to be discussed —along
with the other troublesome matters —on
Monday. But meantime it was also
announced that, following a charge made
to the Lord Mayor by Labor Alderman
Foster against Labor Alderman A. J.
Cahill, the latter had been suspended
by the A.L.P. and had been advised by
the party to resign from the council. At
the weekend Alderman Cahill had not
decided what action he would take;
police were investigating Foster’s charges
at the request of the Lord Mayor and
Alderman Cahill; non-Labor aldermen
were demanding a royal commission.
Commonsense citizens were wondering
by what authority the A.L.P. could
pronounce judgment on an alderman
before a police inquiry had been held,
before the council or public had been
told anything of the matter and without
any semblance of a trial.
Voices of Experience
[From Loiuiou]
The Labor-party executive is being sorely
tested over its plans for the nationalisa-
tion of key industries. This is nothing
new. During the last general election
campaign, Labor candidates found the
electorate unconvinced and, in some
instances, strongly opposed.
The idea that “the State should engage
in the wholesale nationalisation of in-
dustry ... is as dead as a dodo,” declared
the former Attorney-General and Presi-
dent of the Board of Trade recently ; and
“as for those who talk of nationalising
great firms like 1.C.1. and Unilevers,
where there is a vast complex of foreign
trade and patent-rights, and where labor
relations are good, 1 can only say that it
seems to me that such, policies would
lead the country to disaster.” So pro-
nounced Sir Hartley Shawcross, who has
lately given up an immensely lucrative
practice at the Bar to become legal
adviser to Royal Dutch-Shell and a
director of the Ford Motor Company.
Never a man to allow party and pro-
fessional considerations seriously to
conflict he was equally outspoken and
practical over Britain’s insufficient indus-
trial progress, which he put down to three
main causes: high taxation, backward-
ness in management and a lack of real
interest on the part of the workers.
The comment has been made that Sir
Hartley is about to change his name to
Sir Shortly Floorcross.
Tom Driberg, vice-chairman of
the Labor party, regarded Sir Hartley’s
warning not to renationalise steel “merely
in a fit of political pique” as an “un-
worthy sneer” on Lord Attlee, Hubert
Morrison and others; and affirmed that
they “could not progress far towards
greater economic equality while large
sections of our basic industries were still
in the hands of irresponsible capitalists
whose primary concern was profit rather
than the service of the community,”
Another Labor ex-Minister, R, R.
Stokes, who commands both a longer
board-room experience and a closer
attachment to the party than Sir Hartley,
said a few days later that “it would be
silly to nationalise anything for doctrin-
aire reasons.” ' He had particularly in
mind J.C.I. and Associated Portland
Cement. But he makes the distinction
between State ownership and State con-
trol and advocates changing the wording
of the policy-statement to “the ownership
or [i.e., instead of “and”] control of the
means of production, distribution and
exchange.” As an engineering-contractor
who has spent most of his life in export-
ing, his statement, “You cannot nation-
alise the export trade—foreigners just
won’t play” is scarcely a recommendation
for State ownership—or control.
Science Sees the tight
Some slight acknowledgment of the work,
and worth, of our scientists was implicit
in the announcement that a research-
worker at the Walter and Eliza Hall
Institute, Melbourne, had identified in
three days the virus causing the influenza
epidemic now “sweeping Malaya.” The
announcement was concurrent with a
U.S. cable reporting that a team of U.S.
Army scientists working round the clock
took five days to isolate the virus.
Although the practice has been for
most Australian institutes to keep their
workers anonymously hard at work in
their back rooms, the scientist in this case
was named as Dr. Eric French, who
graduated from Adelaide University in
1942.
He joined the 2/sth A.G.H. as a
bacteriologist, served in New Guinea, the
Dutch East Indies, and was given a small
unit to take to the Philippines to screen
Australians and Americans landed from
p.-0.-w. ships. He returned to Adelaide
University as a lecturer, and was invited,
10 years ago, to the Walter and Eliza
Hall Institute.
It was Dr. French who, in 1951,
isolated the virus responsible for the
outbreak of the brain disease encephalitis,
which caused 17 deaths.
That was a far more important dis-
covery than the new influenza virus (a
derivative of one of the well-known
influenza viruses known as Influenza A).
Although it attacks fewer people, the
illness resulting from it is far more
serious.
Dr. French himself was not identified
on that occasion, although the scientific
interest in the new virus he had discovered
was considerable. In the intervening
years, apparently, it has become evident
to institutes that the scientific cause
suffers no harm when its brilliant workers
are identified as humans, and, in fact,
that this is one of the most important
means of communicating their work to
the public.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
SPORTING NOTIONS
TF you can claim to be in “robust
•*- health and have experience in outdoor
life such as skiing, mountaineering,
bushwalking, etc.” and have “powers of
leadership, sound judgment, high charac-
ter and experience in handling men” you
might get a job with the Antarctic
division of the External Affairs Depart-
ment as officer-in-charge of the 1958
expedition to Macquarie Island. Salary
£l4OO per annum. Many a miner or
wharfie gets more than that.—“L.R.M.”
♦> ♦> *:•
“Roger Mike”: The Italian word for
one who cannot read is analfabeto,
literally “one with no alphabet.” Under
our system of education this scarcely
applies, as it is now possible to go through
school without learning the names of the
letters in their due order. I’ve met two
13-year-old lads of normal intelligence
who were unable to repeat them. I
wonder how they find their way
around the dictionary?
❖ *X* ❖
“Hab”: It’s a relief to find somebody
officially deleting a word: “tin”; the
move comes from manufacturers of tin-
plate containers for everything from
foodstuffs to disinfectant. In future
they are going to refer to their products
as cans, a little word from across the
sea that has always seemed more suitable
to me. And indeed, who wouldn’t rather
see a can-can than a tin-tin?
♦♦♦ ♦+♦
“Ybsul”: Never knew before that the
mercurial fraternity who either foot it
home from Randwick or raucously hail
taxis owe the name punter to the football-
pools of Old England. In the early days
of that national gamble on the outcome
of Soccer contests investors were said to
be “ ’Avin’ a punt,” The word Soccer
itself has a history. Technically Associa-
tion Football, it was abbreviated to Assoc,
thence to Soc and, in the way that footer
and Rugger evolved, became Soccer. In
fact, by the same token and God forbid,
the very title of this page could well lead
to its contributors being socked with the
name of Soccers.
+♦♦ **♦
“Sister Ellell”: “Dolphin” (B. 29/5/’57),
who lost his tattooed ship, recalls Service-
men I nursed who were similarly
decorated. I was puzzled that so many
disported the two clasped hands. One at
last told me: “It’s like this, Sis; the
clasped-hands emblem is the only tattoo
solid-looking enough to cover a set of
initials.” I said, “What for?” “Well,”
he said, “the initials are usually for an
old flame who’s blown a fuse.”
“Bo”: In pictorial adver-
tising all is subservient to
the smile and the glorifica-
tion of the grin. All his
family with him in their
brand-new two-tone, 8-cyl.
Super Clutchomatic, Dad
will be depicted smiling at
the wheel despite the pros-
pect of meeting the monthly
p.ns. for the next couple of
years. And the neighbors
will all be shown looking on
and exercising their risible
muscles in obvious appro-
val. So I was not at all
surprised to note the family
shown sitting in front of
their new TV-set, all smiling
broadly as they gazed at the
screen which depicted a
swordsman about to engage
a similarly-armed adversary,
while a tense-faced woman
is pleading wiii him. If
only those actors could see
that audience ... if only
those swordsmen could
walk out of that screen 1
“An Chuidh”: Will squash the:
insults to haggis with the traditiona
recipe:
Slaughter your sheep (some clans used
their neighbors’ sheep) and take therefrom
the large stomach-bag, the king's hood, the
lights;- liver and heart. Clean the bags well,
then boil all except the large stomach-bag.
When cooked, they are all g ated very fine,
together with a large onion with enough
beef-suet to moisten the meal. Two cups
of crisped oatmeal, salt, black- and
Jamaica-pepper are added, all mixed and
put into the bag, which must not be more
than half full. Sew up- and boil for three
hours.
Except on ceremonial occasions it is
not necessary to pipe the haggis in. Hope
this satisfies “Geep” (B. 22/5/’57) while
“R.M.” (B. 24/4/’57) —may his wife and
children all eat garlic—can consider him-
self jumped-on.
* «j« >:«
“W.P.T.”: On College-street, Sydney,
I was passed by a popular airlines-coach
on its way to Kingsford Smith airport,
followed by an ambulance and then a
hearse. Somehow I felt glad I was going
the other way.
❖ ❖ *
“Cash Count”: This campaign to “cut
out cigarettes and dodge lung-cancer”
has influenced at least one fellow who to
the best of my knowledge had never
smoked a cigar in his life, let alone at
eight-o’clock in the morning. But I saw
him leaving church on Sunday, lighting-
up a cheroot as he came through the
door.
❖ ♦> ►>
“Allan B.”: An overcoat was given to
the rector of St. Barnabas Church, Broad-
way, Sydney, to give away. He thought
it was too good, so he sold it for church-
funds. Out of that sale started the
opportunity-shop idea for the church,
which in three years has netted £5OOO.
At the “shop” you can get performing-
mice, a treatise on algebra, a sewing-
machine, or some shoes, all boosting-up
funds for their community-centre to help
all the callers around Glebe way.
TO ROOST
Past sundown, the west hung with heaven,
each suburb goes to roost,
each house like an obedient fowl
settles its hump in softening silhouette,
lets fall its blinds like a cluck’s wings,
and broods . . .
Outside, the larrikin street-poles looped
with lines
play leapfrog past the sleepers
and bounce in rhythm down the line of
sky.
But the houses huddle, draw closer to
themselves,
hug their hearths, frost nagging at their
shoulders,
convinced that, for some diurnal reason,
come the dawn, they will hatch humanity
again
for its day’s season.
S.A.
COLIN THIELE.


T WAS privileged to have lunch the
other day with some “executives” of
big business —you can tell one by his
Homburg - hat-cr/m-hornrimmed - glasses.
We forgathered in the club-bar, and as
there were four of us honor was satisfied
after we had all shouted a round. Four
Scolches-and-sodas is not a bad founda-
tion for an affable lunch ; but four large
tin mugs of beer were ordered with the
meal, which consisted of what might be
called man-sized steaks cooked rare. For
me it was OK. ; I had no office table to
return to, and could sleep it off ; but what
1 want to know is how those boys manage
such doings every day. So many big
concerns seem to be top-heavy with
“executives,” perhaps their afternoon-
duties are largely nominal. But it’s all
very different from the menu a general-
manager of a large concern used to favor:
a pot of tea and thin bread-and-butter
brought up to his room and eaten stand-
ing as a change from sitting all the morn-
ing. He lived to be about 90 ; 1 doubt
if the others will. —“Ceg.”
* * ❖
“Rarthur”: Noel Madison (B.
22/5/’57) evidently believes “Noel” to be
more appropriate for a producer than the
name he used whilst playing with his
father in “The Ringer.” He was listed in
the cast as “Nat” Madison, and played
the part of “Soapy” the crook. During
the Melbourne season of “The Ringer”
two of the actors had a stand-up fight in
Swanston-street, and “Detective-Inspector
Wembury” for days wore the scars
received in his battle with “Johnny
Lenley,” the innocent burglar framed by
“Meister,” the snide lawyer, played by
Maiurice Moscovitch.
“Wusslean”: Curious little news-item
in Melbourne’s “Age,” quoted in its
entirety:
New Shire Engineer
Mr. J. Martin has been appointed engineer
to Bet Bet shire council. Bet Bet shire has
a debit bank balance of £4620 6s. 7d.
Letters of condolence should enclose
stamps for return of thanks.
■»£«■
“Becks”: T’ve heard that the life of a
hospital-honorary isn’t all beer and
skittles, but until I saw an advertisement
for a film-night sponsored by the Royal
Prince Alfred Hospital Honoraries’
Wives Rehabilitation Committee I hadn't
realised that their better halves had a
tough time, too. How do you rehabilitate
a wife?
* +*♦
“Kenyas”: The chairman of a com-
mittee set up to seek members for a new
organisation connected with our school
was reporting progress. “Approaches to
the Parents and Friends’ Association,”
he informed us, “have been fruitful but
the Old Boys have proved barren.”
Smiles flitted o’er the faces of the com-
pany: we’d just had to open another
prep.-school to accommodate the sons
of those same former pupils.
❖ ♦>
“Arthur R.”: Dragging a chain behind
a car as a psychological preventive of
car-sickness is now being worked in at
least one perambulator. As the mother
wheeled the child over the concrete, a
gold chain fastened to the metal of the
pram dragged behind ; evidently an old-
fashioned watch-chain; and every step
of the woman seemed to shriek:
“Stamped in every link!”
“Keg”: “Ceg,” in referring to
old-time buglers, brings back,
memories of the real top-liner we had
in the 2nd A.L.H. He could make a
bugle sing; in Civvy-street he was
cornet-leader in one of Brisbane’s leading
orchestras. Every now and then, when
the twilight was blending into the dark
behind Quinn’s or Pope’s, he gave a solo-
performance on his cornet; and they were
worth listening to. But he had one failing ;
he would persist in finishing-up his per-
formance with “Home, Sweet Home.”
“Sister Ellell”: Urged back into
C.M.F. service (“Just to help teach some
youngsters the principles of Army nursing,
my dear”) I fbund myself an unwilling
participant on the parade-ground, with
no leaning towards being a lady-soldier,
and certainly less aptitude! In fact, I
just couldn’t remember from week to
week just what it was 1 was supposed to
do, and had to be primed regularly by my
worthy corporal. One night, during the
fourteen-day camp, at the time of retreat,
Corporal was busy on the phone, so £
put on one -of the bugle-recordings men-
tioned by “Ceg” (B. 29/5/ ’57), and what
did that loudspeaker blare out all over
that camp area but Defaulters! It was
then that my corporal knew for sure that
I’d never make a soldier.
•:< * ♦s*
“Tom Trout”: Being slowly, majestic-
ally elevated on the Riesenrad, Vienna’s
giant wheel, to 211 ft. over the still-rather-
tatty-looking Prater, I recalled (inevit-
ably) “The Third Man,” in which Orson
Welles sinisterly slid open the door in
front of the hero, while discoursing on
the Renaissance attitude to life. Perhaps
BEACH-MINERS
“The Mayor of Manly has discovered
applications to mine rutile along the foreshores,
including Manly Beach.”
Oh, many a man’s set out to find
What can on Manly Beach be mined
And come back with a head of gold
That neither may be bought nor sold.
And even found that golden head
Had basely been peroxided!
And many men have staked their claims
To Manly’s lovely platinum dames
And formed substantial companies
Developing possibilities,
And had to give that platinum best—
It would not pass the acid-test!
And many a Corso engineer,
Expert on mines and mining-gear,
Who thought his proposition sound
Has, to his bitter chagrin, found
No Dana'e, and no golden shower
Confronting him at Fairy Bower!
Since fate has many a rude surprise
For miners who believe their eyes
■The safest way would be to glean
Those minerals that cannot be seen :
Prospecting Manly girls is futile —-
The manliest mineral’s Manly’s rutile !
N.S.VV.
SWILLIAM.


the authorities remembered him, too;
for the door of the big-as-a-bus cabin
was securely locked on the outside, nary
a handle on the inside. Then, emerging
from a corner where he had sat un-
noticed, a gnomelike man with a wan
smile advanced on the polyglot rubber-
neckers, and pressed into each hand a
printed form, with space obviously for
name and address. This mystified the
non-German-readers, and induced a mild
panic amongst an Indian group. They
needn’t have worried. Filled-in and
dispatched the missive would have pro-
duced a free copy of the New Testament.
♦2> *
“Doynest”: Latest innovation of the
Victorian Railways is a periscope in
the guard’s van: not for submerged travel
—Melbourne’s underground is still in the
talking-stage, as it has been these last
“How am lon punctuation? Oh, I'm always early for Work, sir!”
30 years—but to obviate the guard’s
perching on a seat near the roof of his
van to keep an eye on the top of the
train.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sunray”:'She was standing near the
edge of the platform and the train was
approaching. When she fainted, the man
next to her leapt down on to the line,
grabbed the unconscious girl and heaved
her up out of harm’s way just in time.
Later on he was passing the station and
stopped to ask the stationmaster how the
girl was. “Well, I rang her mother a
while ago and she says she’s OK. Said
it’s the third time this week the kid has
fainted! ”
❖ 1 ❖ ►>
“Lorna Doone”: You have to be quick
when Mum is navigating her pusher in
the city stores. I know they have to
bring them, but you really do need a
licence, to avoid becoming entangled,
especially in the school-holidays. Last
week it was rock-bottom, when one was
bulldozing her way through the crowd,
blissfully jangling a bicycle-bell attached
to the handle of the pram!
&
“Wusslean”: A Melbourne firm of
estate-agents intersperses glowing descrip-
tions of ideal homes and home-sites,
handy transport, all services, glorious
views, etc., in its radio-session with little
anecdotes culled from Ripley’s “Believe
.It or Not.”
<■> *l* ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Postmen aren’t unduly
disturbed about multiple or identical
names on mail while sorting or deliver-
ing. Provided mail-matter for all those
Smiths, Joneses, Hills and Gills in the
same street (B. 29/5/’57) bears the correct
street-numbers, postie couldn’t care less
about their monickers. Incorrect
addresses is what breaks his boots and
heart.
*> ►s* ♦>
“Musica”: Mention of a disk-jockey
diffusing a commercial for 2min. 15sec. in
a 30-minute session which already had
four other commercials (B. 22 / 5/’57)
reminds me of a Les Dixon
cartoon in “Smith’s Weekly” of a
young announcer saying brightly “We
now bring you half-an-hour of un-
interrupted commercial advertisements.”
♦Jf
“Imperial 55”: Since the Department of
Taxation has :gone into technicolor,
there’s always speculation at this time
of the year on which color it will be
next. We’ve had so far, black, red, and
green, and this year’s returns will be
brown. When the new group-certificates
are issued, the oracles will be able to tell
what next year’s color will be. It’s a
funny thing, about those tax-returns;
you can pick up any three returns printed
in Victoria and put carbon between them
and type without fear of the copies being
off-the-line, but the N.S.W. printer makes
it hard for the poor typists—copies must
be aligned and pinned together ; there’s
sometimes half-an-inch difference.
❖ ❖
“Doynest”: A Vic. Supreme Court
jury had to decide the worth of a wife.
A 28-year-old mother-of-three had been
killed by electrical equipment at a doctor’s
surgery: her husband claimed £15,000
damages. His counsel asserted that a good
wife was worth about £l4 a week (“at
the very least,” Mrs. Doynest declares
with feeling); the husband gave evidence
that although he had offered £lO a week
for a housekeeper the only applicants
were women seeking divorces, elderly
women, or women with several children
of their own. The judge told the jury the
husband was entitled to compensation for
only the pecuniary loss he had suffered,
and not for the loss of comfort or com-
panionship: the jury awarded £3900.
THE NEW IMPRIMATUR
“These keenly-priced loofahs of quality are
for the gent, who appreciates the elegancies of
life.”— Advertisement.
“The grand old name of gentleman !’*
That was a prideful title once,
"Defamed by every charlatan”
Who used too much of bounce and
bunce.
But Tennyson’s gent, was gently bred.
He never laughed at hats of ladies ;
Nor scorned a napkin when he fed.
He never dunked in soup his bread,
Nor uttered naughty words like
"Hades !’’
Re didn’t muscle dames aside
In scramble for the peak-hour seat ;
The referee he’d never chide
For fancied faults on his defeat.
Cerulean-tinted was his gore;
"Noblesse oblige” his guiding motto.
Nothing so vulgar as a snore,
Even when snoozing on the floor
While he was well-and-truly blotto.
Unlike the coarser-fibred blokes,
When elbow-steering sorts about
He took the kerbside run. His jokes
The best of canons wouldn’t flout.
And no doubt, when he took his tub
The barnacles (though tiny) growing
Upon his back he’d gently rub
With something soft. Nothing to scrub
And set his epidermis glowing.
"Times change, and we with them” . . .
Well, gents.
Their standards, too, must change
perforce.
Now one of their distinguishments
Is how they scratch their rinds. Not
coarse-
Ly, using half a brick, like some,
Or emu-claw (which is going too far !),
Or, as a friction-medium,
A currycomb. For back or turn
The gent, must use a well-bred loofah !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


THERMAL WONDERS
OF AUSTRALIA
BY OLAF RUMEN
THERE were ten Kiri-
winas, the story goes,
ten happy canoemen of
Boyowa who came by
sea to Dobu and went walking
upon the shoulder of the
mountain Nanareita, in the
district of Deidei, across the
straits from Dobu itself in the
island we call Fergusson.
Fergusson Island is in the
D’Entrecasteaux Group, and
the group is in Papua, in the
Coral Sea between New Guinea
and New Britain.
The ten Kiriwinas came in
the cold rain to a warm place
by a pool grey-blue and beauti-
ful, a pool the depth of a
man, and five times the length
of a man, and the same in
breadth.
And here one of the Kiri-
winas, whose name is for ever
lost, dived for his pleasure into,
the pool, cutting the water
cleanly, knifing through the
grey-blue stillness with the
ease of one who has dived for
shell from his'childhood, turn-
ing gently at his depth and
floating free to the surface.
The nine Kiriwinas on the
bank called to him: “What is
the water like? How does it
feel?”; and the face of the
man in the pool broke into a
smile so gentle, so beatific, that
they took it for an answer;
and to the last man plunged
into the grey-blue beauty.
And even as they did the
first man’s smile widened, and
became a grin, and bared his
teeth and his jaws, and his
eyes lost their lustre ; for -the
water in which he lay was the
near-boiling water of laie
Bworema, the “hot mouth” of
the mountain, the centrepiece of
a thermal wonderland.
He was dead when he came
to the surface, and his smile
was born of the shrinkage of
his muscles in the heat.
And the ten Kiriwinas
floated dead together.
THE men of Dobu tell the
story of the ten Kiri-
winas with a laugh, for
amongst the Papuans a Kiri-
wina man is held as an Irish-
man is in the British Isles, as
a Gascon in France, as a
Calabrian in Italy, as a
Boeotian was in ancient Greece:
a good fellow, but a source of
humor, a figure of fun.
There is also a certain
contempt; for the Dobu
people, violent and aggressive,
had no understanding for the
gentle, highly cultured, indolent
and intelligent Kiriwinas, ex-
cept that they prized their
women as wives ; and this was
curious, for a Kiriwina wife
was less hard-working than
their own women, cooked a
poorer meal, had less respect
A big item in Olaf Ruben’s
present transfer to the U.S.A.
(see “Personal Items”) is a
special engagement to write a
“Saturday Evening Post”
serial for a huge swag of
dollars.
for the head of the house, was
shameless in her attire; and,
in fact, had only this one
attribute, that she approached
each crisis of the day with a
laugh and a song.
©N their own side, the
Kiriwinans were con-
temptuous of the Dobuans.
The philosophy of their
kingdom of Boyowa was that
fear and oppression were two
sides of a single coin, as were
courage and cowardice, hatred
and love.
They killed no men, they
said, they took no heads arid
ate no captives because they
had no fear.
The Dobuans, though, killed,
tortured and ate strangers
whether they brought threats
or supplications; and added
refinements to their killing
which are still impressive.
So, too, is laie Bworema,
perhaps all the more so if you
come to it, as I did, in the rain.
For the pool invites and
beckons ; it is as beautiful a
pool as you can imagine; it
rivals the blue pool of Rotorua
and is set amongst infinitely
lovelier and more impressive
surroundings at the edge of a
silicate platform which breaks
down into terraces; it rivals
beautiful pools that are not
related to thermal activity, and
it is a surprise to discover that,
in fact, it boils.
TT CAME in the rain from
the Methodist mission at
Salamo to a little beach under
the plume of steam that caresses
tbe shoulder of the dead
volcano behind Sebulugoma.
The beach was littered with
the shells of molluscs which
had made a feast for someone,
and behind it, tidy and well-
kept, were the three houses
which constituted, as far as I
could see, the village of
Paragwa
Near the houses a dozen
amazingly well-nourished pigs
foraged in company with
amazingly ill-nourished dogs
more like emaciated Chihua-
huas than examples of the
Papuan hill dog, the Papuan
coastal, or Lord Rothschild’s
Goodenough Islander the
only three breeds to be
expected in this area.
A well-built young Dobu
wife, heavily pregnant, called a
cheery greeting and disappeared
into one of the houses.
Presently an older woman
came and looked at me sleepily,
and then a gaggle of children,
peering into the rain from the
hut doorway ; and finally the
village constable, a short, bull-
necked man who introduced
himself to me as Degei.
When I told him where I
wanted to go he agreed very
cheerfully to lead me.
“There is a good Govern-
ment road,” he said. “The
Government has asked me to
keep a good road to laie
Bworema. You will see. I will
take you. But wait a little
while.”
He went back to the hut,
and I waited 20 minutes for
him to reappear, not without
impatience.
When he came, the reason
for the delay was revealed. He
had changed his cotton rami
for the Government serge, for
he was now upon his official
duties, and therefore must be
arrayed in his full glory as
Village Constable.
Fairly obviously he had
polished his leather gear as
well, and was proud of the
effect, upon which 1 con-
gratulated him.
WE set out along the
“good Government
road,’’ a foot-wide track from
which the encroaching grass
had been cut back a yard on
each side.
Amongst this grass, and at
the edge of the track, magnifi-
cent swamp-orchids and a
variety of other flowers made a
festival of red and blue and the
shades between ; and, when the
rain eased temporarily, yellow
butterflies thronged amongst
the blooms.
There were five of us, Degei
the constable, my two boat-
boys Mwabweia and Eloisi, an
unidentified hanger-on from
Paragwa, and myself. I wore
shorts, sandals and a water-
proof tarpaulin, the latter more
for the benefit of my camera
than myself, though the rain,
falling from a considerable
altitude, was sharp and cold.
We sloshed through water
ankle-deep, sometimes, knee-
deep ; water that at one step
was ice-cold and at the next
warmer than body temperature.
Much of the path lay in
permanent swamp, and in these
places, and bridging the' fre-
quent creeks, thin poles had
been laid down to walk over.
Sometimes these were the
slippery trunks of betel-palms,
very difficult for my sandals,
and I would have removed
them except that the remainder
of the corduroy, laid length-
wise, consisted of thorned
pandanus-branches.
After the second mile there
was a muted and intermittent
roaring from the valley ahead,
and sometimes the water under-
foot was too hot for comfort;
o Continued on page 56)


POLITICAL POINTS
Our top-ranking public servants may
not be the best that money can buy, but
they come pretty close to getting the best
money.
• •
Liberal-leader Morris is appealing to
all parties in the Queensland election
campaign to “keep it clean.” A very
laudable idea, but before you can keep
a thing clean you have to get it clean.
• •
Councillor Maurice Nathan and his
“Promote Victoria Mission” arrived back
in Melbourne last week after six weeks in
America seeking U.S. capital and indus-
tries for Victoria. Nathan expressed him-
self happy at the result of the pilgrimage
and said many big U.S. business interests
would be sending experts out to make
surveys. He wouldn’t go into details as
his report was yet to be submitted to
Premier Bolte and the Lord Mayor of
Melbourne.
• •
One motion proposed for discussion
at the N. S. Wales State Labor conference
isn’t likely to find much favor with
Cahill’s Ministers. It suggests that all
politicians should retire at 65. If it were
adopted Cahill, Heffron, Gus Kelly and
W. Gollan would immediately qualify
for the scrapheap along with several of
the rank-and-file. Many more would be
under brief notice. As for the Legislative
Council . . .
Another motion that would hit many
of the bhoys right where they live seeks
to debar Labor politicians from holding
outside jobs or receiving income from
any other sources than their Parliamen-
tary screw. An echo of the long-dead
principle of “one man, one job,” it has
Buckley’s chance of getting through.
Some of the Labor leaders are prepared
to go back a long way in search of a
policy. But not so far as that.
• •
Gippsland Liberals are thinking kindly
of Bert just now. Unless there is a major
upset, Labor will top the poll for Gipps-
land Province in the Legislative Council
by-election on June 29, with the Liberals
second, the Country party (which isn’t
popular in Victoria at present), third, and
Lab. Anti-Com. last.
The Anti-Com. vote, which wouldn’t
exist but for Bert, could reach 6000, with
most second prefs. for the Libs., and the
Country-party split then may give Bolte
another much-needed seat in the Council.
Victorian Liberals, now in an em-
barrassing minority in the Council for a
Government party, also expect to regain
many seats at next year’s Council elec-
tions, especially if Bert is still going
strong and the Anti-Corns, draining-off
the Labor vote.
• •
The red faces caused by the classifica-
tion in the “Australian Demographic
Review No. 76” (B. 5/6/’57) of a large
number of married migrants and depart-
ing Australians as divorced weren’t all -at
the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and
Statistics. The Bulletin’s front cover
went a little redder than usual when it
was told that the par. on this page last
week reporting the “errow” had
inadvertently said “Democratic” instead
of “Demographic.” Recovering its com-
posure, it then muttered that it just went
to show how these printers’ devils in
Canberra and Sydney stuck together.
• •
On Wednesday six members of the
Q.C.E. took out a writ against Premier
Gair claiming damages for alleged
defamation. The claim is that in a
circular letter and by word of mouth he
said that the A.L.P. in Queensland had
been taken over by Communists and that
this meant that each of them was a
Communist. The six men are Joseph
Bukowski (Q.C.E. chairman), John
Schmella (Q.C.E. secretary), John Duggan
(Leader of the Parliamentary A.L.P.),
Felix Dittmer (Deputy-leader), John
Egerton (Q.C.E. member) and George
Whiteside (Q.C.E. member). Gair has
said he intends to defend the action.
• • .
The “Jewish Times” has found a new
version of the chicken game. It’s called
kosher chicken. The first bloke to pick
up a pen when the boss walks in is it!
• •
The Indian Ocean Christmas Island
which Senator Ashley confused with the
H-bomb isle (B. 22/5/’57) is to become
Australian territory by transfer from the
U.K. Government, on the lines of the
Cocos precedent. The island, rich in
phosphate rock, is about 223 miles south
of Java Head and 259 miles from Cocos.
Britain annexed it in 1888, just 200 years
after it had been visited by Dampier, and
placed it under the control of Singapore
for purposes of administration. It was
then uninhabited ; the 1900-2000 people
who live there today are mostly Malayan
and Chinese employees of the British
Phosphate Commission, in which the Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Governments
share control. Phosphate production is.
about 350,000 tons a year. Although the
link with Singapore was created purely
for convenience, an ex gratia payment of
nearly £3 million will be made to Singa-
pore—soon to be granted self-govern-
ment —for loss of royalties.
• •
Playford’s not fair. For years he’s
been grabbing industries from under the
noses of other States. Not so long ago
a Queensland Minister complained that
he’d been attracting tradesmen away
from that State. And now he has
launched a movement to attract tourists
to South Australia during the winter “off-
season”—which happens to be very much
the “on-season” as far as Queensland is
concerned.
• •
Echoes from the past rang through the
Vic. Legislative Council when the
Country party and Labor combined to
defeat the Government on its River
Improvement Bill. A few years ago Vic-
torians could never be sure from one
day to the next just what the alignments
in Parliament were. During the long
reign of King Dunstan there were
composite Liberal-Country-party Govern-
ments ; minority Country-party Govern-
ments supported by Labor; minority
Liberal Governments supported by the
Country party; minority Labor Govern-
ments supported by the Country party.
For five days in September, 1943, while
Dunstan was changing horses, there was
even a minority Labor Government
supported by nothing except hope.
• •
From Canberra:
As a goodwill gesture to Japan, adroitly timed
to coincide with vital trade negotiations, Aus-
tralia is expected to agree to the release of the
remaining Japanese war-criminals condemned at
our war-crimes trials. Of the 241 men sentenced
by Australian tribunals for war-crimes, only 11
remain in jail and three of these were scheduled
to leave Tokio’s Sugamo prison this week.
The Federal Cabinet decision agreeing to the
release of the remaining eight will involve sub-
stantial good-behavior remittances. It is under-
stood that this ticklish question was one of many
discussed b'y Menzies with Japanese Prime
Minister Kishi in April. Some of the eight
had several years of their terms to serve.
A move to extend the compulsory retiring-
age beyond the present 65 years has failed mainly
because the all-powerful Public Service Board
vetoed it on the ground that a change would
mean a complete recasting of the public service.
Two Commonwealth departments—Labor and
National Service, which is lighting a continuous
battle to keep more skilled people in employ-
ment, and Social Services, which has to pay-out
increasing millions in age-pensions—favored an
extension in principle, but got nowhere. It is
now understood that the Commonwealth inter-
departmental committee studying the question
has recommended against any extension and will
present the report on its investigations to Social
Services Minister RcDerton.
The Public Service Board, along with the
Prime Minister’s Department, Treasury, Labor
and National Service and Social Services, was
opposed to any change, and its submissions were
backed up by the full weight of State public-
service organisations.
According to the board’s argument the very
basis of its superannuation scheme and its
system of automatic promotion is the present
retiring-age; any extension would throw
administration out of gear, cause a great deal of
bitterness in the service and achieve nothing.
The report is expected to emphasise that there
would be no economic advantage in an exten-
sion, even though a few years ago Government
experts feared the rapid rise of over-65’s in rela-
tion to the rest of the community could throw an
intolerable burden of increased social-service
payments on taxpayers. Latest statistical
information suggests that this trend, most
marked between 1947 and 1957, is now levelling-
off and in a few more years will stop.
However, the report is believed to admit there
is a strong social argument against compulsory
retirement at 65 and will recommend that every-
thing possible be done to encourage people to
remain voluntarily in some form of employment
after reaching 65.


In Sydney’s finest winter weather in
living memory the city’s Town Hall is
still enveloped in murky fog.
. • •
Seems that the N. S. Wales Housing
Commission’s scheme for a satellite town
at Minto —for which purpose some of
the best dairying land in the County of
Cumberland has been frozen—is to be
dropped, though the actual decision
won’t be announced by Cabinet until
Housing Minister Landa gets back from
abroad. Landa is at present overseas on
private business, but has a brief to study
satellite towns among other housing
matters in the course of his travels.
Somebody had better cable him to study
the dropping of satellite towns.
• •
Transport-union bosses exempted
drivers of Cabinet Ministers’ cars from
their one-day strike on the ground that
passenger-transport was not to be inter-
rupted and that for the purpose of the
strike Ministers were to be regarded as
passengers. And how!
• •
Apart from the all-important question
of deciding an election-date Queensland
Parliament was prepared for another
ticklish problem when it reassembled on
Tuesday—who was to be Leader of the
Opposition? Nicklin, C.P.-leader and
present holder of the title, heads a com-
bination of 24 Liberal and Country-party
members, but Duggan was expected to
make a bid for it on the ground that his
team of 24 now forms the biggest single
party opposed to the Government.
• •
Labor Minister Harold Holt has
become the first Australian to be
appointed president of the International
Labor Organisation. This may be the
first step in Holt’s round-the-world
campaign to make himself a certainty, in
the P.M. Stakes. If Holt needs inter-
national recognition, his programme after
the 1.L.0. conference in Geneva seems
designed to give him just that. While
in Europe he will visit all Australian
migrant-centres, and, of course, European
Governments will roll out the red carpet
for him. Next on the list is London,
where he will stand-by in case Menzies
should need him at the Prime Ministers’
conference. After that, on to the United
States to meet Ike and Dulles, among
other “old acquaintances.” Holt’s only
serious rival as Menzies’s successor is
R. G. Casey, Australia’s most successful
External Affairs Minister and a respected
figure on the world stage. If Holt can
convince the Liberal party’s backbench
that he, too, is “accepted” by the world’s
great he will be the “heir apparent” in
more than just theory.
• •
Arthur Drakeford, dead in Melbourne
after a short illness, was a Victorian
M.L.A. from 1927-32 and M.H.R. for
Maribyrnong 1934-55, when he was
"Look—struck the jackpot again!"
defeated through the intrusion of the
Anti-Communist Labor party. He was
Minister for Air and Civil Aviation in
the Curtin and Chifley Governments and
represented Australia at numerous inter-
national conferences.
• •
Miss Adamson, 'matron of Western
General Hospital, Edinburgh—one of the
biggest and most modern in the United
Kingdom—reports on Moscow’s leading
hospital that the inside “is institutional
and not at all up-to-date by Western
standards,” that the “beds were untidy
and close together and in one ward stood
head to foot along the wall.” The
patients “looked dejected” and the equip-
ment for an appendectomy which she saw
in an underground room was archaic
and “raised professional eyebrows when
soiled swabs, wooden probes and scalpels
were all collected in the same bowl.” Yet
N. S. Wales doctors, including the
superintendent and another doctor from
Newcastle (N.S.W.) Hospital, which is
just now building a £l-million nurses’
home in the main street and which cannot
pay its tradesmen’s bills, are about to leave
on a trip to Moscow arranged for
by a -Newcastle trade-union official and
partly paid for by the Soviet Union, which
is anxious to bring them up-to-date.
• •
In all the nattering that has gone on
about drive-in theatres in N. S. Wales
neither Cahill nor any of his Ministers
have ever explained why the joints have
to be licensed at all. In Victoria, where the
open-air shows sprang up some time
before they hit Sydney, no licence i 9
necessary, only a council permit. A
licence, once issued, becomes a market-
able commodity, which is the reason the
system is wide open to suspicions and
accusations of graft.
• •
From “Aero”:
At its meeting yesterday Federal Cabinet was
to discuss whether the four major internal Aus-
tialian airlines —T.A.A., A.N.A., Ansett Airways
and Butler Air Transport—should be brought
together under a newly formed Government
authority. In view of the manifold problems
involved in any new approach to airline-control
it is not surprising that Ministers have been
keeping details of discussions to themselves.
Nothing concrete is likely to be decided until
the P.M. and senior Ministers Holt and Mcßride
return from overseas.
Privately-owned A.N.A. is believed to be
pressing for a new system of airline-control in
which the four domestic airlines would be
represented on a new authority, based on the
present capital value of each airfine. A.N.A.
has made it clear that it cannot carry on and
that under present conditions it and the other
two private companies must eventually drop out.
There are only three choices open to the
Government. It can set up a public authority to
control the four airlines; it can complete
rationalisation of the two major companies—
A.N.A. and T.A.A.—with the two sharing all
facilities such as city- and airport-terminal
buildings, transport to and from airports and
booking facilities; it can buy all A.N.A.’s assets
and hand them over to the Australian National
Airlines Commission, which controls T.A.A.
A fourth choice—to tell A.N.A. it must sink or
swim financially—is quite out of the question.
Unfortunately adoption of any of the three
likely proposals would mean the removal of
vigorous competition which has kept the Aus-
tralian commercial airlines service well ahead of
average world standard.


m
Whenever you travel, wherever you travel, there’s always a
TAA VISCOUNT flight to suit you. For your convenience,
TAA operates daily round-the-clock Viscount flights, between
all states. From as far north as Cairns, to Hobart in the south,
right across the nation to Perth in the west, you can fly TAA Viscount.
More people fly
the friendly way
Reservations: TAA Booking Offices in all States or any authorised Travel Agent.
NPVSI7
PERSONAL ITEMS
Sam Hordern, president of the Royal
Agricultural Society of N.S.W., has been
made an honorary life-member of the
Royal Agricultural Society of England.
He’ll probably be presented with the
1.-m. certificate when he goes to England
to attend the conference of Royal Agri-
cultural Societies of the British Empire
at Norwich on July 1.
• •
The first British High Commissioner
in Federated Malaya, Geoffrey Tery, goes
to the job from one in Canberra, where
he has been British Deputy High Com-
missioner. His successor here will be Neil
Pritchard, formerly high-up in the Com-
monwealth Relations Office, and recently
British Deputy High Commissioner in
Canada. At 46 he is marked down by the
prophets as a future head of the Com-
monwealth Relations Office.
• •
Recently celebrated the golden jubilee
of his ordination, Father J. Fahey, parish-
priest of Cottesloe (W.A.) since 1939 and
one of the best-known and most popular
chaplains of the First A.1.F.; 'he sailed
with the 11th Bn., served on Gallipoli
and the Western Front, and won the
D.S.O.
• •
“It’s remarkable how far Henry has
penetrated,” Harry Chaplin, patron and
foundation-president of the Book
Collectors’ Society of Australia, remarked
in at The Bulletin office the other day.
“Do you know, he was the first English-
language writer to be published in
Palestine?” By “Henry,” of course, Harry
Chaplin meant Henry Lawson. Back in
Sydney after poking around libraries and
archives in Europe, Harry has a fund of interest-
ing stories about men and manuscripts. He
stayed with Will Ogilvie on his pleasant little
estate at Kirklea, near Selkirk (Scotland), found
the veteran bush-balladist little changed since
he saw him last in 1951, and gathered the surpris-
ing bit of information that the poet, so long a
Bulletin contributor, had never been on The
Bulletin premises; in fact, it wasn’t until
Ogilvie was going back to Scotland, and A. G.
Stephens organised a send-off, that he met
any considerable number of his fellow-contri-
butors.
Harry was surprised at the comparatively poor
representation of Australiana in such august
places as the British Museum; gaps frankly
admitted by authorities on the other side, and
ones which Harry has promised to help fill with
BACK IN SYDNEY
carefully-chosen parcels of books. Which raises
the thought —oughtn’t someone in Canberra —in
the Commonwealth Library, perhaps, or External
Affairs—be interested in following-up this
promising line of missionary endeavor? A
country that can afford to send politicians in
all directions, first-class, should be able to
raise a few quid to give the world’s leading
libraries examples of our best prose and
poetry; it might be a pleasant change . . .
In Sweden and Denmark Harry hunted —
unsuccessfully—data on Henry Lawson’s
Scandinavian ancestry; he visited Jack and
Phil Lindsay in their respective Elizabethan
farmhouses (Phil’s in Sussex, Jack’s in Essex)
and was struck by the differences in their libraries
—the one romantic, the other classical; and at
Heidelberg he was astonished when, asked if he
would care to see the original charter of the
university (circa 1326), a brown-paper parcel
was taken from a cupboard and the precious
document was unravelled.
• •
Commonwealth Oil Refineries’ new
managing-director, Norman Richard
Seddon, was last man out in Persia when
British Petroleum was forced to leave,
and has been to Australia a couple of
times —once for the opening of the B.P.
refinery at Kwinana (W.A.). He’s 46, was
born in Hamburg, Germany, went to
school and university in England—he’s
an Oxford 8.A., graduating with honors
in History—and has spent more than
half his life in the oil business, mostly
in the Middle East.
• •
Passed on in Perth, Mrs. Ellen
Lawson Withnell, widow of James
Withnell, the first man to discover gold
in the Westralian north-west. She and
her husband were pastoral pioneers in
the Roebourne district before they went to
live in Perth 40 years ago. Mrs. Withnell
had made substantial donations to
educational and social institutions ; these
included £25,000 to the W.A. Medical
School, and a similar amount to the
University Women’s College. She also
founded Withnell House at Mount
Lawley for the Salvation Army, and a
wing for the Benmore (Presbyterian)
Boys’ Home at Middle Swan.
• e
The latest Gilruth Memorial Prize
(awarded annually, since 1953, for dis-
tinguished contributions to Veterinary
Science in Australia) goes to Dr. Harold
Bennetts, head of the Animal Health and
Nutrition Laboratory of the W.A. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, and one of the really
big names in veterinary-research in Aus-
tralia. It was Bennetts who discovered
the cause of infectious-enterotoxaemia
in sheep (variously called pulpy-kidney
disease, plethoric-toxaemia, fodder-crop
mortality and —in W.A. Beverley-
disease). The publication of Bennetts’s
work led to the recognition of the disease
in other countries, and the methods of


control he recommended were applied in
every part of the world where sheep-
raising had become fairly scientific.
Bennetts, who is entitled to write
C.8.E., D.V.Sc., F.A.N.Z.A.A.S.,
F.A.V.A., after his name, is also an hon.
member of the Royal Society of
Medicine, London. Born in Melbourne
in 1898, he went to Wesley College and
Melbourne University, worked as a
microbiologist for the Commonwealth
Health Department in Queensland for a
year, lectured on pathology and bac-
teriology to Melbourne Uni. vet. students
for another year, and then, in 1924, joined
the W.A. Department of Agriculture.
• •
“P.L.”: Sir William Appleton, former
Mayor of "Wellington, was built to sit at
the head of a boardroom. Under his
name in the N.Z. Who’s Who runs a
list of high offices, social and commercial,
as long as your arm. Now comes another
-—they have made him Knight of Grace
of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem
and Chancellor for the venerable Order
in N.Z. The only person above him is
The Prior ; an office held by his Ex.
• •
“M.G.S.”: It was a step from the
dead to the living for R. T. M. Pescott
when he went from the custodianship of
Phar Lap’s stable to the directorate of
Melbourne’s beautiful Botanic Gardens.
Recalled from command of a mobile
entomological unit controlling insect
pests in war-time New Guinea to take
charge of the National Museum, he made
such remarkable changes in the organisa-
tion of that institution that he was called
to the job of administering Guilfoyle’s
magnificent creation across the Yarra.
Guilfoyle succeeded the world-famous
von Mueller, who was made a baron by
the King of Denmark in recognition of
his services to botany, but who was no
garden-designer. His original plan, made
in 1857, shows that the look of things
meant less to him than the. discovering
of a new plant unknown to science—
for that he would risk his life amongst
wild abos. The look of things took first
place with Guilfoyle. He diverted the
Yarra, made lakes of its billabongs and
sweeping lawns of its banks, turned
swamps into fern-gullies and planted
groves and coppices which made vistas
that still enchant visitors familiar with
the world’s greatest gardens.
Pescott admires the plan intensely and
when he shows it handles it lovingly, like
a connoisseur of china handling a piece
of rare Ming. Nor does he think there is
any necessity to tamper with it in the
interests of botanical science. There are
many trees in the Gardens which are from
100 to 200 years old and have probably
reached their allotted span, though a lot
of research will have to be gone into
before this is known for certain. Removal
of these will leave plenty of space for new
plants.
Born at Malvern (Vic.) in 1905 and
educated at Wesley and the University
of Melbourne, Pescott joined the Depart-
ment of Agriculture with a Master’s
degree in Agricultural Science, and
became Government Entomologist in
1935, when the control of insect pests
was becoming priority-one. In 1948 a
Carnegie Fellowship took him to Europe,
Canada, U.S.A. and England.
• •
After 18 months of freelancing, his
target American and European maga-
zines Olaf Ruhen (whose “Thermal
Wonders of Australia” is a feature
article of this issue) left the other day with
his wife Claire for the United States,
where he’ll make the acquaintance of
editors, publishers and his agent. Publi-
cation of his first book. Land of Dahori,
a New Guinea collection, will coincide
with Olaf’s arrival in America. A second
OFF TO AMERICA
book, his first novel, Flaked. Under
Capricorn, has also been accepted by
Lippincott’s, the American publishers of
Dahori (which will reach Australia
towards the end of the year in a British
edition by McDonald’s). The novel, an
85,000-worder set in the Northern Terri-
tory, was written in seven weeks, and
the contract, offered by Lippincott’s after
reading the first thrae chapters, was signed
before the writing was finished. Ruhen is
travelling in the Pioneer Gulf, a limited-
accommodation cargo-ship which offers
the advantages of calls at Port of Spain,
Trinidad ; and at Charleston and Boston.
“Saturday Evening Post” in America and
“John Bull” in England are two buying
Ruhen short stories. Several of the
stories in Land of Dahori first saw print
in The Bulletin.
• •
A parson who has been assuredly in
the highways asd byways has been
appointed new precentor and minor canon
of St. Paul’s Cathedral, Melbourne. He
is the Rev. Godfrey W. A. Kircher,
who was born in Sydney, has spent most
of his life in the ministry in Adelaide
and Melbourne, and has also preached
under gumtrees, in the sitting-rooms of
outback pubs, in dugouts in the Western
Desert, on ammunition-cases in Greece,
in a dry creekbed in Crete, and in a
tropical downpour in Ceylon on the day
Singapore fell.
One of his sermons (as a Bush Brother)
remains partly delivered. He was preach-
ing in a shearing-shed, the congregation
pretty well asleep, when he stepped back
on the tail of a dog that had been asleep,
too. It broke-up the service, without, he
recalls, a collection.
Kircher, currently senior chaplain at
Royal Melbourne Hospital, looks back
on his long service—he was ordained for
Bathurst diocese in 1926 —in so many
parts, looks forward to the change to
grand services at St. Paul’s, but would
like to be at this minute —any minute-
in Sydney.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, Dr. William Caldwell
McClelland, one of Victoria’s best-known sport-
ing identities. For 30 years to 1955, when he
retired through ill-health, he was president of
the V.F.L. For the past 13 years he had been
president of Melbourne Cricket Club. From
1901-04 he captained Melbourne football-club
(V.F.L.).
In Sydney, Herbert H. Fishwick, one of Aus-
tralia’s best-known commercial photographers.
Before starting his own business, he had been
chief of “S. M. Herald’s” photographic staff.
In Brisbane, Dr. Eleanor Elizabeth Bourne,
who was the first woman junior-resident at
Brisbane General. Later she was superintendent
of Brisbane Children’s Hospital.
In Adelaide, at 63, Dr. C. B. Maddern, well-
known Adelaide dentist. In 1954 he was elected
a Fellow of Dental Surgery of Edinburgh
University.
In Sydney, “Boxer” Russell, who toured
Britain with the 1908-09 Rugby Union Wallabies
and 1911-12 Rugby League Kangaroos. Winger
and goalkicker.
At Violet Town (Vic.), at 56, John Joseph
Devlin, Victorian Labor Senator since 1946.
In Sydney, at 81, Dr. Edward Ludowici,
senior honorary at Crown-street Women’s
Hospital for over 30 years. He was a founder
of Cranbrook School, and member of the
school’s first council.
* At Dunedin (N.Z.), at 71, Stronach Paterson,
chancellor of the Order of St. John in N.Z.,
Companion of the Order of St. Michael and St.
George, and Knight of the Danish Order of
Dannebrog. For many years he was Consul lor
Denmark in Wellington.
At Newcastle (N.S.W.), at 43, Reg Beattie,
opening-batsman for N.S.W. in three Sheffield
Shield matches before War 11. He was still
playing at Newcastle last season.
At Wellington (N.Z.), at 74, Dr. W. R. B.
Oliver, director of the Dominion Museum
1928-47.
In Melbourne, Dr. Clara Stone, one of the
first two women to graduate in medicine, in
1891, at Melbourne University. She was a
co-founder, with her elder sister Constance, of
Queen Victoria Hospital.
At Christchurch (N.Z.), at 77, Alexander
Edward McPhail, Rugby Union administrator
for many years. Elected president of the N.Z.
Rugby Union in 1935.
In Brisbane, at 69, Christy Freeleagus, Consul
for Greece in Brisbane since 1919. He came to
Australia from Greece at the age of 12, and had
many business interests.
In Perth, Mrs. H. W. Rigg, well-known
women’s-sport official in W.A. Two of her
four sons, Basil and Bert, have played Shield-
cricket for W.A., and her daughter Marjorie
toured Britain with the 1953 Australian women’s
hockey-team.


ABORIGINALITIES
WEWAK THAT IS
T\HE nostalgic scribe who recently
described here the Wewak that was
needn’t worry about its having changed
very much. The white mastas-1 saw there
in the Sepik Club, and haranguing house-
boys up around the promontory only a
year or two back—the recruiters, Sanders-
of-the-River types, missionaries, gold-
dreamers, planters—needed only Shark-
eye to complete the scene.
The Outpost is still occupied by men
who in their day have gone south for
good—and gone back for good. In the
Islands the white men never change.
Admittedly, War II wrought alterations
in the Wewakscape. There are the rusted
remains of mangled sea-craft stuck in
the white sand along the sea-front. The
kunai has not com-
pletely covered old
Zero - props and
bomb-craters. The
new coco - palms
have risen barely
more than arm-
reach height. But
give the vegetation
a fair go—it hasn’t
had much time.
The laughs still
come with un-
monotonous regu-
larity. The lady,
new - arrived, and
caught by rain, who
tried pidgin on her
attendant houseboy.
“You go back ’long
house,” she said,
“and kisim samting
long stopim water! ”
The lad loped off
and, instead of
returning with the expected umbrella,
arrived proudly waving a pair of the
lady’s pantlets. Loud laughter from
the verandas of near-by villas.
And there’s the goatee-bearded old-
timer who recently achieved the post of
Curator of Public Parks and Gardens in
Wewak. Last heard-of, he had a native
staff keeping palm-fronds off the snow-
white coral path before the Administra-
tion building.
And the long-term goldseeker who flew
south-for-good to Sydney. On his return
he said: “It’s a bloody rat-race down
there. Everyone’s got someone on his
hammer. A jack-camp. You’d go troppo
if you hung round down there!”
Flying’s still part-and-parcel of New
Guinea life. Wewak has a bishop claimed
to be the youngest in the world, American
Catholic Leo Arkfeld, who looks like
Tom Mix and is one of the smartest air-
pilots in the area. At Wewak you meet
charter-pilots jumping-off in cockleshells
for Telefomin, Qantas blokes on the long
coastal run to Hollandia, and Mandated
Air Line aeronauts who get around, in
like manner. The talk with them, as
way back when corrugated-iron Junkers
flew into Wau and Edie Creek after the
gold-money, is of mountain and cloud,
wind in the passes, and how to get away
with a jungle-top landing.
The talk with planters and patrol-blokes
is still how-to-handle-thematives. The
recruiters don’t join in this talk. They
know !
The Chinese store is still there, the
mandarin and his very charming
daughters blandly handing over anything
from rhum-negrita to silk and Saigon
linen. “A month’s supplies, the usual.”
“Yes, we’ll pack it for you.”
There’s talk of Torres Strait and reefs
and tides, of storms and luggers stranded,
of sandalwood in the Celebes and what
Soekarno’s doing.
There’s a native singing in the night
in the soft sigh of the trades.
"Well, that's about the long and short of it!"
In fact, if you can pick the difference
between Wewak as she was and is you
should be tipping horses. Me? —I tip my
cady to their way of life at Wewak.
JackLusby.
* * * *
“Big End”: Power-failures had caused
farmers and authorities a headache. The
transformer on the line had been changed
four times but still the lines went dead.
Then they found the trouble —frogs
shorting the transformer. Apparently the
jumpers can stand up to 2400 volts with-
out any harmful effects —at least that’s
what the electrician said. Anyone con-
tradict him?
* * * *
“Bilwon”: A Queensland truck-driver
who thought the oil may have leaked out
of the gearbox scrambled under the
truck, removed the plug and put his finger
in. The finger jammed in the threaded
plug-hole. A doctor and ambulance were
called but couldn’t help. It took two
hours to remove the gearbox and bring
it and the finger, with the owner attached,
out into the open. The digit was freed
by the owner walking around the plug-
hole, unscrewing the jammed finger as
he went.
* # * *
“Q. Ree” (Fiji): We have had hepatitis,
boils, styes and now measles doing the
rounds here. Any paleness or inflamma-
tion shows up beautifully on-Europeans,
but the dusky Fijians have ao such eye-
catching color-symptoms. Hence the
practice of tying something around their
heads (which I formerly thought a ridicu-
lous custom). It is a sympathy-catcher—-
otherwise you would never know. they
were sick.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I’ve filed under
“one man’s meat” the comments of
New Australians on Perth’s area of
natural bushland in King’s Park. In
summer, I suppose, the banksia-jarrah-
sheoak country must look sandy and
waste to people coming from lands where
trees are tall and
forests are green, but
to a real Sandgroper
this bush is home.
I’ve cursed the sandy
country on a hot day,
and I didn’t think,
much of banksia
when I was cutting
it for six-bob a cord ;
but these things are
transient and for-
gotten with the first
rain. Nothing
Europe has to offer
can match the clean
freshness of jarrah-
country in early
winter, but I don’t
expect the New Aus-
tralians to see this.
Perhaps their
children will.
“L. M. Coo”: I was in charge of a
station on the Namoi River (N.S.W.),
and a record flood was on the
way. We were working the sheep
back from the lower parts when
we got word that 307 head of
bullocks had been put through the
boundary-gate of our lowest and worst-
flooded paddock. They had come direct
from Queensland —300 miles —and arrived
five days ahead of schedule. At day-
break, we (self and man) rode nine miles
to the cattle, our horses swimming twice.
The bullocks were feeding peacefully,
but we mustered them together and drove
them to the highest part of the paddock.
For the rest of that day we worked with
the sheep. Returning home that evening,
we saw across the plain, now a sea of
water, a long string of cattle stretching
back as far as the eye could see. They
were wading in single-file led by a big


t4h t
»


red bullock with long, wide-spread
horns. As he left the water his head
went down to feed and the rest of the
mob followed his lead as they came
ashore. They had waded seven miles.
In the morning all sign of grass was gone
and it was necessary to move them on.
With only another quarter-mile of
shallow water to luscious green grass, they
stubbornly refused to wet their feet. In
the end, the milkers were driven ahead
and the bullocks followed.
* * * *
“Nimrod”: A worker on the gold-
fields water-supply pipeline (W.A.) was
suffering from an obscure complaint.
The foreman suspected malingering ; the
doctor had his own ideas and went out to
see. He got there just as the man was
filling his billy for smoke-oh by springing
a joint in the line. Most length-runners
get their water this way, but they gener-
ally wash the joint first. This one
didn’t. Diagnosis: Mild case of lead-
poisoning. The joints, caulked with
molten lead, form a bloom of oxide in
cooling.
*** ■ *
“Tranche”: Our shrinking world:
truncheons for propagation cut in a
Californian olive-grove one Friday were
planted in a Mt. Zero (Vic.) nursery the
following Thursday.
* * * *
“Mackville”: Can’t see why, in placing
in various classes the names of those old
Westralian goldmines (B. 15/5/’57),
“Nimrod” didn’t put The Absent Minded
Beggar in the same group as the ones
with a South African War derivation —
Spion Kop, Mafeking, etc. —instead of
suggesting that it “could have come from
the literary section.” “The Absent
Minded Beggar” was a Boer War song,
and a very popular one; so popular, in
fact, that. Rudyard Kipling was moved to
say that sometimes he felt he could
cheerfully murder the fellow who wrote
it —only that this would be suicide.
* * * *
“Kui”: If “Ranger’s” blue-heeler (B.
15/5/’57) did not tell him the answer to
the “water-rum” problem it may have
been that he did not know it. If so, he
is not as smart as my kelpie, who figured
it in 30 seconds flat. He reasoned that
what is true of any given fraction of the
whole is also true of the whole, and that
therefore if the whole half-pint of rum is
added to the half-pint of water and then
half a pint of the resultant mixture poured
back into the rum-pot the proportion
of water in the rum-pot is obviously the
same as the proportion of rum in the
water-pot. However, my elderly poodle,
an erstwhile senior lecturer in Mythe-
matics at the Canine University of
Barking, pointed out that whereas a par-
ticular case can be used to illustrate a
thesis it does not constitute a rigid proof.
He submitted a general solution to the
problem, showing diagrammatically that
the proportion of water in the rum-pot
is the same as the proportion of rum in
the water-pot, and said diagram (he
added) is available to “Ranger” at a fee
of one roast-duck.
* * * *
“Fleeced”: They call us Bananalanders,
and probably imagine we wallow in the
things. It’s a long time since I paid less
than 3d. each for bananas of very ordi-
nary quality. Taking a stroll through
Cash-’n’-Carry’s last week I was rocked
by a sign: “Bananas, 6 for 2s.” —and a
sorry-looking lot they were, too. Yet a
Maleny banana-farmer marketed three
cases of fruit, 2401 b., 6in. to 7in. long,
and received •in return a cheque for
17s. 9d., out of which he paid 11s. 9d.
freight. He said words about bananas and
headed west to the shearing.
•i' 4*
“Emtee”: Myxomatosis having taken
care of rabbits in Tassie, another menace
has moved in to fill the vacancy. It is a
“Wish this drought Would break!”
noxious weed known as ragwort. It
grows to a height of 3ft. to 4ft. and
carries clusters of small flowers, not un-
like dandelions. It is poisonous to horses
and cattle, but sheep can eat it without
ill-effect, and rabbits love it, roots and
all. Farmers in affected areas are in a
quandary—they don’t want the rabbit
back, but the cost of killing the weed
with sprays is getting beyond them.
* * * ¥
“Jabini”: Because of heavy rain the
dogs were allowed to go free, except for
big Blue, a confirmed rover. During the
night the continual, excited barking of the
animals finally caused the boss to don
mackintosh and knee-boots and investi-
gate. A noisy digging-party was in pro-
gress, with Blue, chain firmly fast to a
log, acting as cheer-leader and egger-on.
In the bottom of the hole, only their
backs above water, and hampered by the
slippery clay bottom, two spiny-anteaters
tried vainly to dig deeper. The boss lifted
the prickly little diggers out, but what we
want to know is: Why didn’t they
drown?
* * * *
“Kenyas”: Dolled-up in white tie,
black tails and the rest, all ready for a
dinner-party and show to follow, I
wandered up to the line past the fowlyard
to collect my greatcoat, recovering there
from the mothballs. As I passed the hens
they crescendoed into a squawking which
could be put down only to delighted
admiration. The appalling truth burst
on me: they’d mistaken me for an out-
size answer to the feathered female’s
prayer.
* * * *
“Nildem”: Ostriches imported into
Port Augusta (S.A.) at the turn of the cen-
tury were turned loose when the feather-
trade collapsed. They have survived and
increased, and mixed flocks of ostriches
and emus now give pastoralists a bit of
bother. So far no crossed “osmus” have
been seen. Anyway, is this cross
possible?
* * * *
“Tabba”: Got first-hand evidence of
North Queensland’s lack of color-
prejudice. An amiable citizen in the bar
of a Mackay hotel told me, “We don’t
mind foreigners drinking here, mate. Have
one with me?” I did, and he regaled me
with songs of “Ole T.I. Ma Island
Home!” introducing me to his fellow-
trochus-diving blacks as “A bloody
Pommie! ”
SEA-ANEMONE
Elusive where
The frail sea moves under a spiral stair
Of rock : as air,
Untouchable and
Cold to the hand
In love, delicately pursuing you between
Blue wave and green.
N.S.W.
JOAN MAS.


npHAT Beechworth circus-pony (B.
8/5/’57) wasn’t the only equine of
19th-century Victoria to wear shoes of
gold. During the ’seventies and ’eighties,
when Ballarat could truly boast of being
“The Golden City,” the joint municipali-
ties delighted to honor the initial visit of
a newly appointed Governor by providing
carriage-horses so shod for the parade
down Sturt-street and Bridge-street. The
Marquess of Normanby, whose signature
legalised Ned Kelly’s death-warrant, and
Sir Henry Lock, who gave his name to
one of Ballarat’s chief mines, were two
thus honored. For swank this display
was rivalled in the mid-’nineties by
Darlington Simpson, company promoter
and mine-manager of Western Australia,
banqueting his visiting Governor, Sir
Gerald Smith, on a dinner-service of pure
gold. True, following the vice-regal
departure the plate went back to the mine
gold-room, where it had been moulded,
but as an advertisement for W.A.’s
auriferous wealth the stunt took some
beating.—“Aurum.”
* * * *
“Pevin”: Every now and then Tas-
manian anglers’ associations embark on
“cormorant drives,” to stop the depreda-
tions of these divers on the island’s
trout-streams. Should be a great day in
Hobart’s Franklin-square, right opposite
the G.P.0., when someone conducts a
drive against the old shag who perches
on the rocklike head of the statue of Sir
John with a thoughtful eye on the newly
established goldfish in the pond below.
* * * *
“R.E.”: Shorty and his mate called to
repair a water-pump at a mountain-
district farmlet. Owner was a woman,
hard, gaunt and blunt-spoken. Milking
when they arrived, she indicated the pump
down at the creek. Trouble was soon
diagnosed as a jammed footvalve;
suction-pipe was corroded-in and refused
to budge. Hole was about sft. deep, and
reluctantly Shorty stripped and lowered
himself shivering into the icy water.
Milking over, the owner came down to
supervise. Frantically Shorty signalled to
his mate to head her off. But she was
adamant; she’d heard of plumbers and
the way they smoked and yarned in the
time they were being paid for. And she
stayed there grimly until the job was
finished. According to Shorty, who now
can never look at a moist hole in the
ground without shudders, it took his
mate half-an-hour massaging him with a
brick before circulation was fully restored.
“Someone sold it to him when he Was in Sydney."
“Bellfield”: So there are still bushmen
who believe that cutting a dog’s ear cures
him of snakebite (B. 8/5/’57)? No doubt,
too, the notion still exists that a dog will
recover from a bite if he’s thrown into
water for a long swim. Both methods
used to have many followers, and the
swimming idea might have h2d the merit
that any poison on the surface of the
bite would be washed off. For the rest,
it’s hocus-pocus, born of two facts: ( a )
a dog’s hair can act as a screen and pre-
vent some of the venom from entering
the wound ; ( b ) in many cases (including
that quoted by “Zing”) the snake was a
black, which, contrary to universal belief
of yesteryear, is one of our least deadly
wrigglers. What never made sense to me
was why any bushman would cut a dog’s
ear when he could scarify the bite, or
waste hours at a waterhole rather than
apply a ligature and take the canine
patient back to camp—and Condy’s
crystals.
• * * *
HTHE inland “dry” has made small,
sheltered Yaralla Bay, Parramatta
River, one of the most densely populated
spots around Sydney.
Until recently flotillas of snow-white
gulls rode at anchor like the yachts in
Rushcutter Bay; and from the windows
of this Repat. hospital-ward, close by
the water, we watched the seabirds at
bobbing rest, in graceful flight and in
disgraceful, shrieking fights.
Came the inlanders, driven to salt-
water-feeding by the drought. Dusk the
day before yesterday saw six wild-duck
“casing” the little bay like jinking
Junkers. Frenzied take-offs and screams
among the gulls, resenting intrusion, and
jealous of their feeding-ground.
There are two factions of gulls, and
both objected. Yesterday it was on for
young and old. When the screaming and
the tumult died we counted around 1500
duck calmly holding their position on the
surface of the bay.
Still the odd skirmish ; but the ducks’
silent, imperturbable and tricky flight
forced the hoarsened gulls to the almost
unanimous conclusion that they might as
well move over and make room.
What really brought the pyjama-clad
audience to its feet was the sight of a
file of ducks trailing a swimming gull as
though—in the belief that local know-
ledge is the works —to find out where he
got his fodder. A glorious echelon of
pelicans came in and did a low sweep
round the bay, sheered off. No landing-
space? A flight of 20 cranes and four
ibis got in O.K.
No, we haven’t got a shotgun in the
ward, and the Digger-wise Sister-in-
charge made a firm pronouncement:
“Nothing more than shanghais!”
YBSUL.
HONEY SONG
Honey in the red gum,
Honey in the clover,
Honey in the stringy bark,
Honey, brimming over.
Morning yellow-box-trees standing
Weeping like a bride,
Weeping like a bride, that soon
Proudly white to church will ride.
Honey singing in a bird
Where creeping, feathered robbers, pied
As the blossoms they despoil,
Reel full of mead as any earl.
Honey, in a brown fur-coat
With stings for those who hinder,
Honey, hived and locked in wax,
To make the winter kinder.
Honey, seeped through old mans brain
To mellow, drowning madness,
Honey, flying down the wind
In summer-clover madness.
Honey of the promised land,
Where milk clouds Speewah River,
Where every bee’s a station-hand,
And every dog a drover.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


Business, Robbery, Etc
THE PINCH OF PRICES AND DROUGHT
-BUSINESSMEN certainly
need to be on their toes at
the present time. Economic
gear-changing continues to be
forced on industry, partly by
internal Government financial
policy, partly by seasonal con-
ditions, partly by normal
developments in supply and
demand, and considerably by
overseas developments.
Just lately the downward
trend in metal prices was men-
tioned on these pages, with the
query as to whether other non-
metallic commodities then in
high world price-favor would
follow old-time tradition and
come down also. Since that
was written there has been a
decline in wool prices,
influenced by both internal and
overseas factors.
Internally, dry conditions
have been responsible for an
inferior clip at some recent
shearings, while, externally,
trading conditions in England,
and overall economic condi-
tions in France (as well
as some hesitancy by
Japan pending more reciprocity
in trade), have had the result of
weakening support for the
staple at auction.
Thus, while the expected
record £lOOO million for
exports may still be recorded,
the setback to wool, however
small at present, should be
enough to check excessive con-
fidence in the economic shape
of things immediately to come.
Behind all overseas markets
at the present time is the
demobilisation factor. In the
United Kingdom there are
definite trends towards
demobilisation. In Australia
the intake of National Service
trainees has fallen even from
its previous modest level. The
United States is tending
towards a reduction in its
armed forces and depending,
like Britain, more and more on
its nuclear weapons.
These overseas developments
are having an effect on the
stockpiling of metals and com-
modities, and on prices.
Drought and lower prices are
affecting most land industries
in Australia at the present time.
Wool has been one of the last
to feel a slackening in prices ;
most other land industries,
including dairying, meat and
wheatgrowing, have been hit
already. There has been quite
a lot of “shopping about’’ at
political level in London, on
behalf of both Australia and
New Zealand, in order to get a
better deal for (comparatively)
depressed primary products.
There hasn’t been any great
success.
In manufacturing, transport
and distribution the picture in
Australia is a varied one.
Efficient concerns continue to
show good profits—at times,
indeed, amazingly good profits.
Other concerns, sometimes old-
established businesses, show
amazingly bad figures.
It would appear that the
difference in trading conditions
“Are you going to be troublesome ?”
between those of two years ago
and those now prevailing in
many industries is purely
marginal, but it has been
enough to put the weaker or
less efficient concerns fully to
the test. A lot have been tried
and found wanting.
Underlying most of Aus-
tralian economic problems, of
course, is a fundamental lack
of productivity per man per
working-week. Inadequate pro-
duction, besides depriving us of
adequate surpluses for capital
requirements, makes costs of
production too high.
It has been argued in times
of past recession that additional
production put on to an over-
supplied market would be
ridiculous. But the need for
increased productivity does not
necessarily mean that produc-
tion should be stepped up in
any old type of industry.
Supply has to be directed
towards the demand. And pro-
duction must be carried out at
economical cost. Provided
production costs are on the way
down as a result of increased
productivity, there are many
types of economic activity in
Australia, at present compara-
tively neglected, that could be
stimulated to the advantage of
the whole nation.
Among the more obvious
necessities, transport in Aus-
tralia is in a very bad condition,
and provided value can be got
in return for expenditure, many
millions of man-hours of pro-
ductive work could be laid out
in that direction alone.
Eyes on Isa
pROSPECTS of Mt. Isa
Mines, Ltd., are intriguing
investors in Australia and over-
seas. There is not only silver,
lead and zinc, but copper also
alongside. And there are other
minerals all about the Mt. Isa
area.
Isa is already the biggest
profit-earner among Australian
mining cos., Barrier mines
included. And its potential is
immense. Just how big isn’t
clear. But it is a long-term
investment, with many of the
problems associated with out-
of-the-way places in barren
country.
Transport and fuel are the
chief worries. There is
perennial talk of a new railway,
and actual present investiga-
tions into the matter of atomic
power. Uranium-treatment is
to be carried out near by.
There are 23,029,248 -ss.
stock-units issued by Mt. Isa
Mines, Ltd. These stock-units
are priced on the sharemarket
at 355. 3d. each, giving the mine
and all associated assets a value
of about £4O million. At
present quotations the
immediate yield from Mt. Isa
shares is only £3 11s. per cent,
on a 25 p.c. div. basis.
The value of Mt. Isa as an
investment will depend a good
deal on the cost of equipping the
metal-refineries, etc., that will
be required, and on how this
and other capital-expenditure is
financed. Some further taxa-
tion consideration for mining
companies still in the develop-
ment stage would be of obvious
value to the expanding
Australian economy.
J. and A. Brown
the sharemarket hav-
ing taken the price of J.
and A. Brown Abermain-Sea-
ham Collieries £1 shares to 235.
(against 18s. a short time ago)
it appears that some investors
believe that the dividend-rate
will rise this year to the maxi-
mum of 10 p.c. allowed under
the Joint Coal Board’s
regulations.
For several years past the
rate has been 8 p.c., after large
tax-free . appropriations for
capital expenditure. These
appropriations have totalled
£1,865,000 over the past five
years, while in the same time
£563,000 was written-off in
normal depreciation.
It is logical that such heavy
capital expenditure should
some day come to an end, and
that the dividend would then
rise within the limits allowed.
Whether that moment has
indeed now arrived The
Bulletin doesn’t know, but the
market seems to think so.
A 10 p.c. dividend would call
for £190,000, which is £38,000
more than was distributed last
year. Payment of such a divi-
dend certainly would impose no
financial strain whatsoever on
J. and A. Brown. Its profit-
earning capacity and its
financial position have never
been reflected in the market’s
valuation of the shares. The
market has always taken a
sober concept of the political
angle, and three years ago took
the hasty view that coal was
on the way out as a result of the
oil-strike at Rough Range
(W.A.). J. and A. Brown, in
spite of the notorious difficulties
of the industry, has worked
diligently to meet competition
from other fuels.
Colony Hotels, Ltd.
the object of building
a modern hotel on lines
which will prove attractive to
the overseas visitor as well as
appealing to passing motorists
and entertainment-seekers, a
group of Sydney businessmen


£
How much of
Your Estate
will your beneficiaries get?
Specialised experience in the intricacies of
Estate Administration may well prove of con-
siderable advantage to you—and your depen-
dants. Union Trustee’s comprehensive services
•—available at moderate charges, limited by
Law—ensure fullest conservation of your assets
and continuous, competent control of your
Estate. Phone, write or call. There is no
charge— no obligation.
U N io N
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 18S5
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
I. corral Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman) •
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C.. M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright. M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson
Manager: A. B. Tileinann. Assistant Manager:A. G. W. Dent.
Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District Representative
for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman)*
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon’
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Rpenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleviile.
• UT27a
are sponsoring a project at
Sylvania, near George’s River
(N.S.W.). On the board of
Colony Hotels, Ltd. (formed in
April, 1951), are VV. G. Walkley
(of Ampol), J. P. Crennan (of
Spaldings and John Haig
whisky), A. D. Bridges (M.L.C.
and accountant), and P. M.
Bianchi (managing-director of
Colony Catering Pty., Ltd., and
formerly with Romano’s),
Colony Hotels, Ltd., pro-
poses to acquire all the assets of
Colony Catering Co. Pty.,
including the freehold of the
Grosvenor Hotel, Ultimo, and
fieehold land and buildings at
Sylvania. Transfer of the
Grosvenor’s liquor-licence to
the new hotel has been
approved by the licensing court.
The site of the new hotel is
about six miles from Kingsford
Smith airport and handy to the
new oil-refineries and terminals
on Botany Bay. The prospectus
says “the proposed Colony
Hotel will provide everything
necessary for the comfort and
convenience not only of visitors
who arrive by air at Kingsford
Smith aerodrome but also
for those who travel by car, the
main Prince’s Highway forming
the boundary of the company’s
property.” It is intended not
only to provide all the amenities
of a first-class city hotel but
also parking-grounds for 350
cars, "spacious gardens, swim-
ming - pool, restaurant,
lounges, etc.”
The hotel will be in three
sections, with the bar wing
separate from the residential
portion and the entertainment
and catering section separate
again. A car-service to the city
is proposed. Proximity to surf-
ing, golfing and National Park
and the South Coast is
emphasised.
A great deal will depend
upon the success of the hotel
as a first-class residential and
entertainment proposition. In
this regard the services of Mr.
Bianchi should be important,
and the association of Mr.
Walkley could also be of value.
Success on this score will help
considerably on the liquor-
selling side, which, while still
the most important factor in
the hotel industry as a whole,
isn’t as lucrative as it used to
be. Australia is undoubtedly
in sad need of first-class hotels
such as the Colony is intended
to be.
The public is now being
offered a million ss’ ords. at
par. (Of these Colony Catering
has agreed to take 132,000 for
cash.) Colony Catering will be
paid £115,000 for the land,
licence and other assets being
taken over, and it is aimed to
spend £160,000 on the new
hotel, £30,000 on furniture and
plant, £7OOO on preliminaries
and reserve £13,000 for work-
ing capital. A loan of £75,000
or thereabouts will be
necessary, in addition to the
capital-raisings. An amount of
£2009 (8036 ss. shares) had
been subscribed prior to the
present issue.
Mr. Bianchi speaks of net
profits in excess of 15 p.c. and
“a regular dividend of not less
than 10 p.c. p.a.” Achievement
of these figures will depend a
good deal on the results of Mr.
Bianchi’s own efforts as
manager.
The Television Industry
ALTHOUGH TV-sets aren’t
being sold as quickly as
the daily blurbs in Sydney and
Melbourne -newspapers (which
have shareholdings in TV-
transmitting stations) and
announcements over the
national radio-stations would
lead one to suggest, it appears
that there was quite an appreci-
able pick-up in sales of
receivers following Sydney
Easter Show and the beginning
of the football season.
Latest figures for TV-
receiver licences are over
50,000. That total com-
pares with a production
of 67,000 sets up to the end
of February. During the four
months to February produc-
tion averaged about 10,000 a
month.
This production is spread
rather thinly over a compara-
tively large number of manu-
facturers, and it seems unlikely
that the industry generally is
making money out of TV at
the present time, though
Admiral reports satisfactory
trading.
At the same time, the advent
of TV has affected sales of
radios considerably, and as
they are usually made by the
same type of manufacturer,
there is likely to be quite a
pinch in the industry during
this financial year.
On the ' transmitting side
there can hardly be anything
but losses for the embryo TV
services. Until there are many
more TV-receivers in use
neither licence-fees (for the
national stations) nor advertis-
ing revenue (for the com-
mercials) will come up to
profitable proportions.
In the United Kingdom, fol-
lowing colossal losses, com-
mercial TV is now reported
to be making a good recovery.
But there are millions of TV-
sets in the U.K. In the United
States, of course, TV has been
a huge commercial success (so
far as advertising revenue is
concerned, anyway), but bow
long it will take to make the
grade in Australia is another
question. Populations, though
conveniently concentrated in
Sydney and Melbourne, aren’t
as big as in the U.S.A. and
Britain, and the high cost of
TV-sets in this country is
another deterrent to early
profitability,
The financial results of Aus-
tralian TV-stations will depend
to some extent upon how far
they committed themselves,
under contract, for enterfain-
ment services before they knew
the extent of public response.


(fhjuy
*
UAL
Ql
W
ATER
WATER SOFTENERS
For the home
In Industry
In Hard Water Areas
• Steam Raising Plants for Hospitals.
• Manufacturing Processes.
• Manual, Semi-automatic, Fully Automatic.
• Specialised equipment for Farm and Station
Purposes.
FILTRITE Water Filters
Clear, crystal water for
every purpose. The home,
Institute use, Industry,
Swimming Pools, Town
Supply. Specialised equip-
ment for Farm and Station
purposes.
DEIONIZATION
This makes it possible to
obtain a water which is
the equivalent of a triple
distilled water, free from
all dissolved solids, and at
a fraction of the cost of
distillation.
W. G. UTTING & CO. PTY. LTD,.
T. & G. Building,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE. 88998 - 85097
Contractors to State and Commonwealth Governments.
Manufacturers of all types of Water Treatment
Plants, both Industrial and Domestic.
Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
iTJ'i </5i
Thanks to
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO - BARBERS
acts like a hand
when placed flat upon
the orifice. You will
at once, without
effort and in all
movements, control
youi hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for FREE Literature
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3o), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
In any case* it would appear
that a great deal of operational
loss in the early stages will call
for more capital as time goes
on. The starting of TV
services in capitals outside
Sydney and Melbourne will
probably result in a spreading
of costs through syndication of
programmes, but Sydney and
Melbourne will have to stand
the heaviest proportion of this
whatever happens in other
States.
Maybe the winter months
will promote the sale of TV-
sets. They appear to attract
most attention when a special
outdoor occasion arises (such
as the Olympic Games in Mel-
bourne or the Easter Show in
Sydney) or when demonstrated
privately.
Changing Shapes in W.A.
JBy 1,. Owen]
T HAVE been advised over
1 the telephone by strangers
that I should cease harassing,
by “sharpshooting from the
sidelines,” companies—such as
Wapet, which is obviously do-
ing its utmost to discover oil —
and to allow them to work out
their problems in their own
way. It was pointed out, also,
that Wapet had spent to date
over £l3 million in its W.A.
operations and that it has
employed, and is employing
continuously, a large staff of
geologists and geophysicists in
the work.
At the very outset let me
make it quite clear that I have
not —nor have I ®ver had —
any intention of “harassing”
Wapet or any other organisa-
tion engaged in a genuine effort
to discover petroleum. More-
over, I possess a very real
admiration fof Wapet’s persis-
tence in its (so far) disappoint-
ing search for commercial oil
in Western Australia. I fully
recognise and respect the high
qualifications of its geological
and geophysical staff.
“Sharpshooting from the
sidelines” suggests a sinister
attempt to kill from ambush;
such a description can’t rightly
be applied to signed press-
articles the purpose of which
is to aid all bona fide oil-
exploration b y publishing
relevant information culled
from experience painfully
gained during many years of
largely-unrequited labor —in
“seepage” oilfields which
resemble, in many geological
and some geophysical aspects,
areas now being surveyed in
Australia.
As I stated at the first press-
conference held by Wapet in
Sydney, I wished to save such
members of its geological staff
as had not worked in seepage-
areas the faulty conclusions
which I had reached, with con-
sequent disappointment and
disillusion, as a young geologist
possessing sound academic
training but too little field-lore.
And, if the inquirer has any
doubts as to the qualifications
of Wapet’s technical staff, I
refer him to the “Wapet News
Digest” for March, 1957.
A second message was
critical from rather a different
standpoint, and asked why I
had confined myself to generali-
ties in technique when detailed
proposals would have been
much more helpful. My reply
is that it would have bjeen
presumptuous (and possibly
unethical) for me —working
chiefly from past experience
and the often meagre informa-
tion given in press-releases—
to offer specific advice. That,
after all, is the function of the
paid staff and consultants of
the several companies who,
naturally, will be in posses-
sion of the latest data and of
much unpublished matter.
In all modesty, however, I
claim that any unbiased reader
of my Bulletin articles on the
search for oil in Australia will
agree that much of the. expendi-
ture incurred could have been
avoided had the general
principles which I have
advocated been followed. For
example, as regards the Car-
narvon Basin, it was startlingly
obvious to me- from what
was known of the Birdrong
Sandstone before a single test-
well for oil was spudded-in,
and from the nature of the
petroleum struck in Rough
Range I—that1 —that the chances of
the Birdrong horizon including
commercial reservoirs were too
remote to justify the use of
the normal “developmental”
technique which was employed
in its exploration. I have an
uncomfortable feeling that
the impish God of Chance
(who can rightly be considered
as the patron deity of the oil
game) had his tongue *very
much in his cheek when he
assisted in the location of the
Rough Range “discovery” well.
To avoid any misinterpreta-
tion of my evaluation of the
Carnarvon Basin as an oil
prospect, however, I would
refer my critics to the final
paragraph of “The Shape of
Things” (B. 1/5/’57).
A recent press-release states
that “All geological and geo-
physical data obtained in the
Exmouth Gulf area during the
past few years is being
constantly reviewed by the
Wapet exploration department
. . . The information [from
the area between Cape Range
and Rough Range] is now be-
ing interpreted and new lines
of investigation are being
followed.”
The most important news
which has lately been released
with reference to the Car-
narvon Basin is that some
2400 ft. (with a few minor
breaks about half-way down
the column) of limestone has
been penetrated under Dirk
Hartog Island. It is a pity that
the “limestone” has not been
more specifically described,
but its existence as a thick,
almost unbroken stratum —in
conjunction with an even
thicker column of shale at the
corresponding horizon under-
lying Cape Range, about 250
miles to the north —will allow
of plenty of latitude in new
lines of investigation.
That makes the withdrawal
of equipment from the island
all the more puzzling, but it
may be hoped that this move is
being made to allow the intro-
duction of heavier-duty plant.
.Every person who has at
heart the success of oil explora-
tion in Australia will welcome
the assurance by Wapet that
it is attacking the problems
facing it with mental mobility
and unfettered by traditions
developed under geological
conditions very distinct from
those encountered in this
country, and it is to be hoped
that this free outlook will
extend to the other organisa-
tions and to the other States.


COUNCIL CLEAN-UP WEEK


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Borovansky Ballet
After Margot Fonteyn’s
dancing of “Swan Lake” in the
first Borovansky programme at
Sydney Empire one felt that
it was very nice indeed to have
seen her ; after seeing her in
the opening performance of
“Aurora’s Wedding” in the
second programme one wanted
to see her again and again and
again . . .
The hints of what she could
do which she gave in “Swan
Lake” were fully and wonder-
fully confirmed in this second
programme with dancing which
seemed to have left technical
skill so far behind that there
was never the slightest sugges-
tion of mechanics to intrude on
the spirit and emotional warmth
of her dancing. Her Rose
Adagio in “Aurora’s Wedding”
was a gentle coquetry of large,
liquid eyes and melting move-
ments, far removed from the
usual, obvious flashing-eyed
conception; here indeed, in
pink-gold and silver, was a
rose with diamonds of dew in
the first rays of the sun.
In white and gold as the
young Princess Aurora, the
Fonteyn again created some-
thing new by adding a touch
of regal decorum and aware-
ness to the role of a happy
girl on her wedding-day. The
combination of youthful eager-
ness and shy dignity was in-
finitely appealing in its sincerity
and as moving in its way as
the Rose Adagio.
One looks for comparisons
with this warm and sensitive
dancing and, not knowing of
them, falls back on the over-
worked adjective incom-
parable.
Michael Somes’s solo was
admirably danced, although
one still retained the impres-
sion that he is a catcher rather
than a flyer ; but as a partner
he is nothing short of magni-
ficent—always a step and a
thought ahead of the Fonteyn,
so that one feels that if she
fell (from which angels and
ministers of grace defend us)
he would hit the floor first and
be there to catch her. Together,
their “hold” and “follow-
through” is so much the one
beautiful movement that it is
almost sleight-of-hand the
speed and flowing grace of it
deceiving the eye in seeing
“how it’s done.”
Peggy Sager, dancing with
Robert Pomie the lyrical Blue
Birds from “Aurora’s Wed-
ding,” was firm and sure, if a
trifle hard. In the last joyous
“Did YOU know it Was frozen ?”
flight from up-right to down-
left across the stage together,
this pair match the swoop and
rush of birds in a spectacular
finish.
Tschaikowsky’s music,
Petipa’s choreography, the dark
brilliance of black costumes
encrusted with silver and gold
against a cloth-of-gold back-
drop and black velvet wings—
all these combined in a perfect
setting for the amazing vitality
and sharp, clean virtuosity of
Howena Jackson and Bryan
Ashbridge in the Black Swan
pas de deux. Arriving in mid-
air from somewhere in the
wings in a breathtaking leap
onto the stage, Ashbridge com-
pleted a series of spectacular
leaps, entrechats and assorted
steps of all varieties with skill
and grace far surpassing that
of any male dancer seen in
Sydney for the last 20 years
or so ; and Rowena Jackson,
pirouetting and fouetting madly
in his wake, was a perfect
complement to his dancing.
They are a dazzling and excit-
ing pair.
The “Sylphides” which
opened the programme was
disappointingly uneven; at
times the changing patterns
almost lost their endless charm
and dissolved into an unhappy
restlessness of waving arms
and blue-white tulle, while
Kathleen Gorham, dancing
without • her customary elan,
gave the mazurka and* waltz
little more .than rag-doll
expression. From time to
time the moonlit enchantment
returned to the stage, and
noticeably so in the prelude,
with Pamela Proud floating and
drowning ,in the mist. The
tender quality of this dancer’s
Sylphide by contrast with
her mischievousness in the part
made famous by Riabou-
chinska in “Graduation Ball”
indicates some promising
versatility.
“Graduation Ball” has the
familiar Strauss music to
enliven it, but is really over-
long for such a trifle, particu-
larly with the introduction of
•the somewhat incongruous
“divertissements.” Kiril Vas-
silovsky’s agile dancing, how-
ever, triumphed over his
costume; as the General, John
Auld, danced with everything
from his eyes and eyebrows
and to the tips of his fingers
and toes, his long lean legs
like a pair of. dancing red
calipers.
Vassilie Trunoff was rather
crowded off the stage by
memories of David Lichine
dancing his own choreography,
but he dances the role in the
same exuberant style and with
the same tossing of lank, dark
hair out of his eyes—which is
very effective. Joan Potter
scored with him in the
“Perpetuum Mobile.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
Queen Gertrude
The chief interest in' the
renewed season of “Hamlet” at
the Elizabethan Theatre, Syd-
ney—if there can ever be a
chief interest in “Hamlet” that
isn’t Hamlet himself —was to
see what Rosalind Boxall
would make of Queen
Gertrude.
She is—to be brief —perfect.
This is not the kind of thing
one Tikes to say about visiting
celebrities, because it sounds
like adulation. But if Queen
Gertrude is not an opulent and
beautiful woman, approaching
her perilous years; if she is
not genuinely fond of Hamlet
and utterly bewildered when he
turns upon her ; if she is not
more foolish than wicked, a
happy, impulsive, sensual
creature who falls into collapse
like a disintegrating rose when
her faults are brought home to
her—if she is not all that, pre-
cisely as Miss Boxall played
her, thft commentator has com-
pletely misread the text and
couldn’t say anything anyhow.
The only possible criticisms
that could be made would be
that Miss Boxall slightly under-
played the poetry of the
wonderful drowned - Ophelia
speech for the sake of con-
sistently playing the queen's
character —but that was a
virtue rather than a fault ; and
that perhaps she wasn’t quite
regal enough for the beauteous
majesty of Denmark but to
marry your brother-in-law a
month after he has poisoned
your husband is not a very
regal thing to do and Gertrude
therefore isn’t a very regal
queen. She is human.
It was a beautiful and most
satisfying performance, though
it needed a stronger king by
Lloyd Berrell to underline it.
The closet-scene with Hamlet
was excellently balanced, with-
out any of the overstressing of
the dear old (Edipus-complex
that marred Olivier’s film.
Perhaps, after all, one should
spare a word for Paul Rogers.
He is also—to be brief —perfect.
And that, too, is said with


permanent asset
* on your property
BARN
m
• Heavy gauge galvanized steel sheets
• Easily erected permanent
. • Rodent and weatherproof
• Hinged type bag holder
on 1000-8500 Bushel Silos
• Steel earth rings and
loading platforms are
available as extras if
required
• Prompt delivery j
IYSAGHT
Grain Silos
EARTH RING
An earth ring, which is an extra
ring of corrugated steel sheets
filled with earth or sand, is a
most effective and economical
method of erecting an elevated
base for your lysaght Silo. The
use of an earth ring reduces the
risk of underground seepage.
Full details are available on
request.
AUGERS
A completely new type grain
auger is now available to fill
and empty Lysaght Silos.
AND AUGERS
PRICES (F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
Write for further Information and Agents' Names to: —
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, er John Lysaght l Australia I Pty. Ltd. la
all Capital Cities.
S24A
all due responsibility. This
crisp clear Hamlet, held up in
his revenge partly by melan-
choly and chiefly by a genuine
and altogether plausible distrust
of the ghost, never mad but
shaken, rounding on Polonius
not with wild and whirling
words but with exasperated wit,
makes both sense and drama of
the play .. . which. one
imagines, is surely what Shaks-
peare intended.
/ *i* ❖ ❖
Enrique Jorda
It might be expected that
Enrique Jorda, the Spanish
conductor, would find his most
satisfying medium in music of
sparkling gaiety, such as the
“Marriage of Figaro” Overture,
with which he began the first
Sydney concert of his second
Australian tour; or in music
of cosmic drama, as in the
Brahms First Symphony ; or in
the hammering intensities of the
Khatchaturian Piano Concerto.
Yet it was in the poetic deli-
cacies of the Prelude and
Liebestod from “Tristan and
Isolde” —music drenched with
deep, soft longing that he
found his best expression.
Jorda uses the left upturned
palm and the restlessly inviting
fingers with the same impor-
tunity as the Cairo beggar
after backsheesh, and the
orchestra paid him in good
coin. It responded magnificently
in the shading-away down the
long gradual slope from the
mountainous climax of the
Prelude to a whispered pianis-
simo. The work of the ’cellos
in the “Love-Ptjtion” theme
was so good that it seemed
that the conductor had hypno-
tised them with his hand-
passings.
The andante section of the
Brahms was another notable
piece of disciplined slow-
motion, its meditative calm
beautifully spun. In the final
movement, too, the blending
of the trombones and bassoons
was of a high order. Strong
as were the brasses, though,
they didn't succeed in drowning
the stentorian commands flung
at them by the conductor.
Valda Aveling.was the soloist
in the Khatchaturian. This
concerto kicks-off to a series
of pounding dissonances and
then levels out into music of
some order and architecture,
with the discords making a
furtive appearance later. It is
all charged with tremendous
energy, especially so in the
head and tail sections; and
the soloist gave the crashing
chords full weight and good
tone.
“Calypso Capers”
•If the palms in the Caribbean-
littoral scene had swayed with
anything like the violence of "the
shapely hips of the precision-
built ballet when the “Capers”
came to Sydney Tiv., it
certainly would have indicated
that nothing less than a tornado
was blowing through that
venerable pile. Let effete
Hawaiian hips roll languor-
ously! But where the calypsos
caper, hips oscillate as Nature
meant ’em to, in full-blooded
ebullience. And around those
neatly - curved pendulum-
swingers this whole colorful
show swept with sparkle and
zest.
Before Ijie third item in the
vital-statistics showed up, how-
ever, the “Capers” had got off
to an indifferent start with a
second-hand sketch of no great
shakes by comedians Buster
Fiddes and Frank Ward. But
the subsequent proceedings
offered plenty of compensation.
In the speciality-turn field the
Two Earls were outstanding,
their difficult feats of slow-
motion balance being executed
with grace, precision and
seeming ease ; later, in a mock
knife-duel with a dash of judo,
they were even more impres-
sive. Lebrac, too, performed
wonders of juggling and spin-
ning while balanced precari-
ously on his unicyde.
There was Ronald Chesney,
who from a mouth-organ can
conjure, with the aid of a
“mike,” almost as much
volume as a small orchestra,
and with almost as wide a
range of effects ; and he gets
from a single high note an
effect which a virtuoso violinist
could scarcely better.
Ventriloqust Peter Brough,
too, did many clever things with
the help of his precocious
stooge Archie, the best being
a conversation conducted with
the non-human member in his
elevated bath, the distance
between them being no less
than 20ft.
Tossed-in for good measure
were the Singing Boys of
Mexico, a tightly-disciplined
choir of excellent tone which
specialises in tricky cross-
rhythm singing ; the rhythmic
dancers Christine and Moll,
the male member an extra-
ordinarily gifted tap-dancer ;
another competent dancing
pair, the Delicados ; singers
Nina Cooke and Bobby Gon-
zales ; and the rubber-faced
comedian Joe Martin, who
exercised a natural raconteur
style and a flair for imitating
mechanical noises in an up-
roarious tale of an obliging
gent, in a Jaguar.
Altogether a spectacular and
beautifully undressed show.
Films
“Giant”
While “War and Peace” still
does good business at Sydney
Prince Edward in lower Castle-
reagh, uptown, in the Town
Hall precincts of George-street,
another movie-marathon —the
200-minute “Giant” has
moved into the Regent.
Taken from Edna Ferber’s
popular novel,- “Giant” is of
Texas —of its oils and spoils ;
its people and their moods.
Bick Benedict is the central
character. A handsome young
cattle-rancher with more acres
of Texas land and cattle to run
on it than most people ever
have hairs to their head, he
trips to Maryland to get himself
a fine piece of horseflesh, and
returns with the horse and
another prize from the estate —
the beautiful daughter, as his
wife.
From this point these two
characters are studied, along
with those who surround and
affect them, through a
polyorama of Texas—Bene-
dict’s strong-willed sister killed
by the stallion she had tried
to* cower; gushing oil-strikes,
and the deadbeat-rouseabout
they made rich ; the opening of
a lavish hotel, and subsequent
bitter scenes over color-
discrimination . . .
Elizabeth Taylor is the pretty
young thing from the ritzy
Maryland family, and as such


Abridged Prospectus
COLONY HOTELS LIMITED
(Incorporated under "The Companies Act 1936"
of the State of New South Wales)
©
ISSUE AT PAR (5/-) OF 1,000,000 ORDINARY SHARES
PAYABLE 5/- PER SHARE IN FULL ON APPLICATION
OR 2/6 EACH ON APPLICATION AND 1/3 PER
SHARE ON 30th SEPTEMBER, 1957, AND 1/3 PER
SHARE ON 30th NOVEMBER, 1957, AT THE OPTION
OF THE APPLICANT.
DIRECTORS:
WILLIAM GASTON WALKLEY (Chairman of Directors),
3 King Avenue, Balgowlah—Managing Director, Ampol
Petroleum Limited.
JAMES PATRICK CRENNAN, Edgecliff Road, Edgecliff.—
Company Director, A. G. Spalding and Bros. (Aust.) Pty.
Limited; Australasian Representative of John Haig &
Co., Limited.
THE HON. ARTHUR DALGETY BRIDGES, M.L.C., 118
Crescent Road, Newport.—Chartered Accountant
PHILIP MARIA BIANCHI, R.A.G., Billyard Avenue, Eliza-
beth Bay.—Managing Director, Colony Catering Pty.
Limited.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
RONALD LESLIE YOUNG, A.A.S.A., 10 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
| OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY:
Amongst other things the objects of the Company as
set crut in the Memorandum of Association, copy of which
is included in the Prospectus, is to erect a modern and
unique luxury Hotel at Princes Highway and Port Hacking
Road, Sylvania.
The Hotel will be similar to “Terminal” Hotels in Ameri-
ca providing all the amenities of luxury Hotels together
with spacious gardens, swimming pool, restaurant, lounges,
garden terraces and ample parking space for over 350 cars.
The minimum amount on which the Directors may pro-
ceed to allotment is £200,000.
Prospectus and application forms are available from the
Registered Office of the Company: from J. & J. North, 113
Pitt Street, Sydney: and from any member of a recognised
Stock Exchange. Applications for shares will be received
only on forms of application referred to and included in the
printed copy of the Prospectus.
BROKERS FOR THE COMPANY:
J. & J. NORTH, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exhange)
This advertisement does not comply with Section 137 of the New South Wales
Companies Act 1936, and is published for public information only. This is not a
prospectus or an advertisement of a prospectus and does not constitute an invitation
to subscribe for the shares mentioned therein.
she is convincing; though
still convincing in her trying
early years in Texas, her
character is lost in later years.
With his brilliant animal
gestures—a concentrated yet
loose and relaxed moron—the
late James Dean in the first
half recalls the Marlon Brando
of “On the Waterfront.” His
falling-off in the second half is
probably the most disappoint-
ing aspect of the film.
Rock Hudson, if his Bick
Benedict loses some of its con-
viction towards the end, gives
the best performance, as the
virile cattle-rancher little
changed by all that has
happened.
Producer-director George
Stevens has made a skilful
attempt to save the film from
the now-accustomed fate of the
movie-epic. He gives it an
admirable crispness while
allowing the characters to
develop, but the second half
falls away and the characters
that are just beginning to create
such a vivid impression are lost
in a wash of new characters —-
the Benedict offspring. If the
film’s second half doesn’t com-
pare with the first, however, it
still has enough force to carry
on to a conclusion that is not
altogether disappointing.
❖ ❖
“The Rack”
Well-developed drama sur-
rounding a Korean War after-
math makes this an above-
average offering at Sydney St.
James.
An American Army captain
returns from a Chinese p.-0.-w.
camp—a Silver Star hero,
hailed by his colonel-father,
whose other son was killed in
action. Follows the tortuous
disclosure that he is to appear
on charges of collaborating
with the enemy.
The subsequent trial-scenes
are comparable with those of
“The Caine Mutiny.” Here,
though, is the probing of the
mind of a gallant soldier for
the weak spot that showed itself
to and was exploited by the
Communists.
As the accused, Paul New-
man shows brilliant flashes in
what is a difficult part; at other
times, though -generally too
tense, he lacks discipline in
which regard Walter Pidgeon,
as the father, doesn’t help
much. Wendell Corey (prose-
cuting counsel) and Edmund
O’Brien (counsel for the
defence) give quite sound per-
formances, and Anne Francis
(widow of the accused’s
brother) shapes fairly in a thin
part.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Industrial Acceptance Holdings, Ltd.
■COR many years the largest hire-
purchase financier in Australia,
Industrial Acceptance Holdings, Ltd.,
continued to grow last term, but the rate
of expansion dropped sharply, and was,
for part of the term, limited by the
gentleman’s agreement between finance
cos. and the* Prime Minister. The in-
creased rate of co.-taxation was, however,
one of the main factors behind a small
slip in profit, for the business handled
by the co. in industrial and motor-vehicle
transactions increased by approximately
£5 million to more than £5O million.
Developing from the well-known In-
dustrial Acceptance Corp., Ltd. (1.A.C.),
Industrial Acceptance Holdings was
formed in 1954, exchanging five of its
ss. shares for every two ss. units in 1.A.C.,
which then became its chief operating
subsidiary. The public first acquired a
share-interest in the 31-year-old subsi-
diary in 1948. Shareholders in the
holding co. were offered a further
4,000,000 ss. ords., one-for-five, at a
premium of 2s. 6d. not long after the
formation of the co., paid capital reach-
ing £7,000,000 in 1955. There are
1,000,000 £1 6 p.c. prefs.
The group operates in all Aus-
tralian States, financing the hire-purchase
of motor-vehicles, machinery, farm-
equipment, furniture and domestic
appliances. Two wholly-owned sub-
sidiaries, Ajax Insurance Co., Ltd., and
Surrey Insurance Co., Ltd., handle the
insurance on motor-vehicles purchased
through the group as well as writing
general insurance business.
While finance cos. benefited to some
extent from the shortage of bank-credit
last year, the tighter credit-conditions and
increased rates of sales-tax affected
demand for many of the items commonly
sold under h.-p. agreements and the h.-p.
debt (to finance cos.) rose by only
£18,315,000 over the year compared with
a £48,999,000 increase in the 12 months
to December, ’55.
Including £2,880,000 (up £283,000) of
earned insurance premiums, the group’s
gross profit for the year to December 31
last improved by £914,480 to £8,002,991,
and investment-income jumped from
£11,228 to £34,704. Expenses increased at
a faster rate than gross earnings and,
with insurance claims paid during the
year, amounted to £4,807,434 (up
£840,419), net profit slipping by £64,007 to
£1,818,824 after providing £1,380,052 (up
£157,155) for taxation and £22,101 (up
£4389) for depreciation:
Industrial Acceptance Corporation, Ltd.
z Dividends To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1952.-762,690 5 15 =250,000 512,690 2,112,033
Tax overprovided, £15,381 .. .. 2,127,414
Added contingencies res., £ll5O ..2,128,564
1953 1,142,013 5 ISi = 350,000 792,013 2,920,577
Industrial Acceptance Holdings, Ltd.*
Tax underprovided, £19,559 .. . . 2,725,381
From contingency reserve, £200,000 2,925,381
Preliminary exp. written-off £56,8i2. . 2,868,569
1954 6 | 644,167 985,770 3,854,339
Tax overprovided, £54,674 .. .. 3,909,013
From profit-suspense, £12,982 ... 3,921,995
Share-issue expenses, £42,393 .. 3,879,602
Share-premiums, £500,000 . . . . 4,379,602
Res. I.A.C. capitalised, £3,000,000. . 1,379,602
Share-premiums 1.A.G., £500,000 . . 1,879,602
1955 1,882,831 6 16f = 976,667 906,164 2,785,766
Tax overprovided, £10,026 .. .. 2,795,792
1956 1,818,824 6 16* =1,060,000 758,824 3,554,616
* Reserves subject to excess of cost over par-value
of shares in subsidiary companies, £501,920 at
31/12/,’56. tlO p.c.. prior to formation of holding
co. and 8J p.c. afterwards.
A portion of the £6,000,000 ord. capital
came in during the 1955 term, and an
extra £83,333 was required for dividends
last term, although the rate was unchanged
at 16f p.c. With debentures and deposits
three times the size of paid capital the
co. has been able to show a healthy
earning-rate, and after deducting the pref.
div. the profit equalled 29.3 p.c. on ord.
capital, as against 33.4 p.c. in 1955 and
26.7 p.c. in 1954. The return on average
shareholders’ funds dropped from 19.9
p.c. to 17.8 p.c.
Although the co. owed debenture-
holders and" depositors an additional
£1,847,290 at the end of the year, the
amount due and to mature under h.-p.
contracts (plus sundry, debtors, less un-
stated provision for losses) increased by
only £578,140:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital—- 1954. 1955. 1956,
Pref. .. £ 965,850 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Ord. .. 4,878,596 6,000,000 6,000,000
I. «liares. . 82,664
Reserves ... 3,854,339 2,785,769 3,554,616
Sub-subsidiaries 605,000 357,000 266,795
Unearned
income .. 5,116,950 5,804,400 5,283,180
Debentures, etc. 18,064,200 19,547,350 21,394,640
Creditors, etc. 1,415,629 2,360,322 1,802,006
Reserve unexpired
risks .. 1,701,379 2,529,180 2,702,469
Staff fund .. 93,443 116,389 144,578
Tax provision 1,162,082 1,303,611 1,380,766
Final dividends 431,667 530,000 530,000
£38,371,799 £42,394,018 £44,059,050
Freeholds .. 115,720 '178,074 312,288
Office equipment 97,044 112,428 138,827
Investments .. 122,970 160,907 170,379
11, -p. contracts 34,029,109 39,516,893 40,095,033
Cash, prepayments 477,926 1,923,796 2,840,603
Intangibles' .. 2,929,030 501,920 501,920
£38,371,799 £42,394,018 £44.059,050
The drop in unearned income (down
£521,220) followed a higher proportion
of short-term agreements, but the increase
in outside money was represented by long-
term (over 12 months) debentures (up
£2,558,950) while short-term liabilities
were reduced.
The insurance subsidiaries, with their
special interest in motor-vehicle risks,
found the going a littie harder last term
but operated quite profitably. Although
the N.S.W. Government’s decision to fix
insurance-rates on vehicles under h.p.
should not worry the cos. in the current
term it may well delay necessary adjust-
ments to rates in future years.
Latest figures issued by the Common-
wealth Statistician confirm earlier indica-
tions that the demand for h.-p. finance is
levelling-out. In the first quarter of 1957
the amount owing to h.-p. cos. increased
from £229,067,000 to £229,350,000, but
repayments exceeded new business in
both February and March.
The 16f p.c. div.-rate was “comfortably
supported” by earnings in the first quarter
of the current term, and the market prices
the f.-p. ss. ords. at 12s. 6d. to return
6.7 p.c. from an unchanged div. Net
tangible assets support each £1 pref. to
the extent of £lO Is., the ords. having a
cover of 7s. 7d.
Wunderlich, Ltd.
r T' I HE decline in home-building appears
to have had little effect on Wunder-
lich, Ltd., last term, and the co. added to
its long and more-than-satisfactory invest-
ment history by turning-in a record
profit. Many of the co.’s products are,
of course, intended for use in commercial
premises, and the boom in commercial
building was largely responsible for an
increase in turnover. The co., however,
was operating on a more profitable basis
than in the preceding term, when a lift
in turnover was accompanied by a drop
in profit.
Wunderlich supplies several of the
basic needs of the building-trade, pro-
ducing terra-cotta roofing-tiles and fit-
tings, asbestos-cement sheets and mould-
ings, facing-tiles, texture-bricks and an
extensive range of metal products, includ-
ing such things as ceilings and fascias,
shopfront-mouldings, stainless-steel sinks,
grilles, metal-clad doors, etc. Under an
agreement with Cupples Products Corp.,
of U.S.A., the co. will shortly commence
production of aluminium window-frames
and aluminium curtain-wallings, now
commonly used as a facade to commercial
buildings.
The business, taken over by Wunder-
lich, Ltd., in 1908, was founded 70 years
ago in Sydney and today includes
factories in all States except W.A., where
the partly-owned H. L. Brisbane and
Wunderlich, Ltd., represents the co. (The
Westralian co. paid a 12 j p.c. div. last
term and has since paid a 5 p.c. interim.)
Post-war conditions have favored
rapid growth, and much of the finance
needed for the co.’s expansion has come
from earnings, which in the 11 years to
1957 increased by almost 400 p.c. In the
same period the div.-rate rose from 7 p.c.
to 15 p.c., dropping back to p.c. in
1956 after a one-for-two bonus-issue.
Funds needed in excess of those
provided by retained earnings were
obtained through a mortgage loan from
the A.M.P. Society, arranged in 1952,
while last term 410,724 £1 ords. were
offered to shareholders (one-for-two) at
a premium of 10s. each. In addition over
60,000 £1 shares have been issued as
progress - payments under building
contracts. Paid capital, including £160,000
in 7 p.c. prefs., now stands at £1,453,848.
Competition was keener last term (to
Feb. 28), but a strong demand existed for
products used in commercial buildings,
and despite the contraction in home-
building, sales of both asbestos-cement
materials and roofing-tiles were well
maintained, total turnover improving by
“about 6 p.c.” Costs and expenses con-
tinued to increase (State land-tax took
£4OOO and will require £ll,OOO over a


year) but were well covered by the higher
income, net profit jumping by 19.1 p.c.
(£38,629) to £240,198 after providing
£195,585 (up £4027) for depreciation and
an unspecified amount for taxation:
r Dividends \
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb. .Profit, 7 p.c. f —Ordinary— >, serves. serves.
£j £> £ £ £/
’53..162,306 11,200 10 p.e.= 54,764 96,342 468,59-
To staff partners, £25,500 .. .. 443,09
From inner reserves and profit sale
assets, £81,684 524,77
’54..212,227 11,200 15 p.c.= 82,144 118,883 643,66_
Asset revaluation reserve, £273,816 .. 917,47'
’55.-258,919 11,200 15 p.c.= 82,145 165,574 1,083,05:
Reserves capitalised, £273,816 .. 809,23
’56..201,569 11,200 12ip.c.=102,803 87,566 896,80
Share premiums, £136,908 .. ..1,033,70
Profit sale shares, £109,375 . . . . 1,143,0 H
’57..240,198 11,200 124p.c.=134,820 94,172 1,237,25
f After deducting goodwill (£73,888 at 29/2/’57
Earnings covered the pref. divs. anc
19.6 p.c. on average ord. capital
compared with 23.2, 45.2, 36.7 and 27.
p.c. in the four preceding years. The ore
div., unchanged at 12| p.c., required an
extra £32,023 to service the large
capital, and over a full year would, witl
the pref. divs., call for £172,931 o
£67,261 less than last term’s showing. The
new scrip became fully-paid on the firs'
day of the current term.
The book - value of fixed assets
increased by a net £166,848 during the
term, largely as a result of the
completion or near-completion of metal-
work factories at Adelaide and Villa-
wood (Sydney), but despite this expendi-
ture and a £159,193 reduction in outside
liabilities (mortgage overdraft anc
creditors, etc.) a lot of the fresh capital
was still in liquid form at the end of the
year, cash, bonds, etc., increasing by
£202,745 to £285,231. Freeholds were re-
valued in 1955:
Paid capital—- 1955. 1956. 195 i.
Pref. .. .. £160,000 £160,000 £160,000
Ord 547,633 821,449 1,152.690
Calls in advance .. 103,657 86,30(
Reserves .. .. 1,156,939 970,689 1,311,14*
Mortgage .. .. 548,800 548,800 526,40 C
Overdraft .. .. 79,300 197,650 52,804
Creditors, etc. .. 1,128,589 1,202,579 1,110,632
Final divs. .. 53,518 57,062 77,909
£3,674,779 £4,061,886 £4,477,879
Freeholds .. .. 779,675 811,699 926,145
Plant, etc. .. 675,413 960,063 1,012,465
Shares, etc. .. 145,298 166,548 142,406
Stocks .. .. 1,497,066 1,476,593 1,456,228
Debtors .. .. 423,775 490,609 581,516
Cash, bonds .. 79,664 82,486 285,231
Intangibles .. 73,888 ( 73,888 73,888
£3,674,779 £4,061,886 £4,477,879
The £20,365 drop in investments reflects
the sale of the co.’s -half-interest in an
Adelaide asbestos-cement factory, the
transaction returning a capital-profit of
£109,375.
A larger turnover will be needed in the
current term to make full use of the co.’s
improved production-capacity. Orders
received early in the term have exceeded
those received in the corresponding
portion of the previous term and there
are hopes that the rate of home-building
will be accelerated. (Statistics covering
the first quarter of 1957 show an
increase in the number of houses under
construction.) Production of aluminium
curtain-walling and window-frames is
expected to commence next August and
additions to the recently-completed Villa-
wood factory are now in progress.
The f.-p. £1 ords. have a net tangible
cover of 40s. 3d. and last sold at 50s.
to return 5 p.c. from a p.c. div.
Younghusband, Ltd.
TT has been an extraordinary stroke of
fortune for Australia that the run of
good seasons experienced over the last
decade should have coincided with a
generally high level of demand for most
of the rural commodities that enter it
export trade ; for, without the benefit o;:
the income so earned, the country’
development could hardly have been
attempted on so ambitious a scale.
Last year, of Australia’s total export
cheque (gold excepted) of £774-million
farm commodities accounted for £572
million, of which wool brought in £353
million. In the first ten months of the
current year shipments of the staple
abroad have already exceeded this figure
by £4B-million, and, by June 30, are
expected to reach £460-million, almos
half of the total estimated export proceeds
for the year. Principal buyers, in ordei
of importance, are the U.K., Japan
France, Italy, Germany and Belgium
The United States, which in the last
couple of years has adopted measures to
encourage the use of domestic wools, has
slipped to seventh place, taking only 3.3
p.c. of the wool shipped in the ten-month
period.
How total sales and values to the end
of April compared with the 1955-56
season is shown in the following table:
10 Mths. Bales Average
to April, Sold. Value. per Bale.
195 G .. 3,304,849 £257,901,440 £7O 13s. 3d.
1957 .. 3,877,308 380,992,573 99 10s. 2d
The average price of greasy wools rose
strongly early in the season, eased back in
October, and then continued on a very
firm note. Over the last week of May,
though, the market for short wools
weakened by up to 10 p.c. in Sydney
following the increased offerings of
prematurely-shorn wools. For many
landowners the shortage of feed has
become acute as the result of the failure
of the winter rains.
Younghusband’s mixes wool-broking
with pastoral-finance, stock- and station-
agency and merchandising in Victoria
and southern districts of N.S.W. Last
term, to expand operations, one new
branch (its 52nd) was opened at Bal-
ranald in N.S.W., and, in January, share-
holders were offered 245,000 new £1 ords.
at par, on the basis of one for five. It was
too late in the term to have much effect
on net earnings:
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit.* Dividends. serves, serves.
& £ £ £
1949.. 64409 10 p.c. = 62,500 1 lnQ
Written off goodwill, £l5OO ) '
Share premiums, etc., £95,000 .. 422,972
1950.. 92,300 10 p.c. -- G 2,000 \ oot> aan iq4
Written off goodwill. £16,584 f
1951.. 158,243 124 p.c.=109,375 48,868 485,062
1952.. 88,857 10 ~,, 87,500 ) „= 7 asr; 419
Written off goodwill, £lOOO j 6 ’
1953.. 73,230 8 p.c. = 70,000 3,230 488,049
1954.. 140,354 124 „ ~109,375 30,979 519.028
Written off goodwill, £4OOO . . .. 515,628
1955.. 168,234 12 p.c. =147,000 21,234 536,862
Profit sale assets, £37,000 .. ... 573,802
Written off goodwill, £3OOO .. .. 570,862
1956.. 144,982 10 p.c. -122,500 22,482 593,344
Written off goodwill, £lO,OOO . . . . 583,344
1957.. 150,531 10 p.c. =122,500 28,031 611,375
* After deducting contributions to staff fund.
Written after setting aside £22,000 (up
£2000) for the staff fund, and providing
£35,547 (up £2700) for depreciation and
£134,000 (up £25,000) taxation, the
£150,531 profit was equal to 12.3 p.c. on
the old ord. capital, compared with 13.7
p.c. in 1955 and 16 p.c. in 1954. Th
dividend was unchanged at 10 p.c. On th
bigger capital it would call for all bu
£3531 of the profit earned last year.
Reflecting the record quantity of woo
handled during the year the co. pui
18,044 more (141,107) bales under th
hammer, and, at March 31, carried a
extra 3116 (23,551) bales for disposal thi
term.
In the balance-sheet £123,824 wa
clipped-off the amount due to client
and creditors, £38,511 was added to fixec
assets and an extra £152,743 let out
advances, etc.:
1955. 3956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £1,225,000 £1,225,000 £1,470,00
lieserv.es .. .. 536,862 593,344 611,37
Creditors, etc. .. 2,144,282 2,362,907 2,239,08
Tax provision .. 115,000 109,000 134,00
Staff fund .. 32,302 37,164 43,16
Final div. .. 98,000 73,500 73,50
£4,151,446 £4,400,915 £4,571,12
Land, buildings .. 568,374 531,458 569,909
Plant . . .. 195,800 201,504 205,338
Merchandise .. 81,235 94,923 84,33
Advances, etc. .. 1,967,197 2,218,193 2,370,936
Cash, etc 1,338,840 1,354,837 1,340,54 a
£4,151,446 £4,400,915 £4,571,122
The growth in the more-or-less liquic
surplus was £220,686.
Last traded in Sydney at 30s. 2d. the
old f.-p. £1 shares show a return of 6.6
p.c. on the basis of a 10 p.c. div. So far
anxiety over the browning landscape
hasn’t given rise to any noticeable weak-
ness in pastoral investments on the Stock
Exchange, though a prolonged dry spel
might And the country vulnerable to a
repetition of the 1944-46 drought, when
27-million sheep were lost. Because of the
favorable seasons and the smaller rabbit
population pastures are more heaviiy
stocked than they have ever been.
Bruntons (Holdings), Ltd.
CJINCE the world supply of wheat got
ahead of demand, about three or
four years ago, Australian, growers and
flourmillers have found the export of
their products more difficult and less
profitable.
For many years flourmillers have
picked-up a large portion of their income
and earnings in foreign markets, where
profit-margins were above those avail-
able locally, but general over-supply and
the dumping of surplus grain and flour
in those markets (by the U.S.A., Canada
and, at times, France) has caused prices
to tumble. With many old customers well
supplied with cut-price grain or flour,
local exporters have had to find new
markets and although the volume of flour
exported has not fluctuated greatly, the
prices obtained have returned little
profit.
In these circumstances Bruntons
(Holdings), Ltd., owner of an 89-year-
old flourmilling business, did reasonably
well last term to regain the ground lost
in the previous year, when profits were
insufficient to justify a dividend.
A holding co., Bruntons was formed
late in 1951, acquiring the £199,651 paid
capital of the two Brunton cos., operating
in Victoria and N.S.W., by the issue of
scrip to a face-value of £288,548. A
public issue of 245,802 ss. units (at par)


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
C.l. Australian and Overseas Patents
and Trade Marks. — Adyt.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnettipg Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water l'ilters, Steam Valves,
etc.
mi +if
, « 1
'/' , ''> -v * s x / *'V
I A C
»v
248
•..;; • ••:£: « •
REGISTERED
first
MORTG^E
debenture
stock.
7
*»***«*,
6 y EA«s
OTHER TERMS
AVAILABLE
3 MONTHS TO
20 YEARS
SEE
PROSPECTUS
foafomteed
Fixed quarterly Income free of
exchange.
Principal paid in full on maturity.
Principal paid in full before
maturity in certain circumstances
—refer Prospectus.
The largest asset backing of all
finance companies in Australia.
Assets exceed £40,000,000.
Underwriting Brokers to the issue:
lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne,
Sydney and Canberra.
Trustee for the Debenture Stock*
holders: The Perpetual Executors
& Trustees Association of Australia
Limited.
Requests for a Prospectus may be made to
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES and all Branches of the E.S. ft A. BANK
LIMITED, NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA Ltd., and
Australia’s Leading Hire Purchase Organisation —-
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH - HOBART
followed in 1952, taking paid
capital to £350,000.
The operating subsidiaries
have mills in Melbourne,
Sydney, Rupanyup (Vic.) and
Gunnedah (N.S.W.) which,
together, can handle approxi-
mately 4,500,000 bushels of
wheat annually, producing
about 95,000 tons of flour as
well as large quantities of bran,
pollard, wheatmeal, etc.
The chairman reported
(perhaps a little modestly) that
sales were “well maintained’’
during the year to November
30 last (February 28, ’57, for
the parent) and although prices
were low there was some im-
provement, particularly in
export-prices, towards the end
of the term, the increase con-
tributing to a pleasing recovery
in net earnings, up £16,017 at
£25,418:
Bruntons (Holdings) and Subsidiaries,
Re-
Feb., Profit. f —Dividends—serves.*
1953. .65,735 10 p.c. =35,000 I -n<r 7fi =
Prelim, exes, w/off, £2460) ’
Excess tax prov’n, £5252.. 118,017
1954.. 51,625 10 p.c. =35,000 134,642
Unexp’d addition, £4735.. 139,377
1955.. 25,070 5 p,c.=17,5G0 146,947
Assets revalued, £190,987 337,934
Intangibles w/off, £89,690 248,244
1956.. 9,401 Nil 257,645
1957.. 25.418 5 p.c. =17,500 265,563
‘Subject to £89,690 excess cost over
par-value of shares in subsidiaries,
written out of the accounts in 1956.
A 5 p.c. div. brought share-
holders into the picture
again, the earnings, claimed
after providing £13,422 (up
£10,363), or little under 7s. in
the £, for taxation and £18,841
(up £1580) for depreciation,
representing a return of 7.2
p.c. on paid capital, as against
2.7, 7.1, 14.7 and 18.7 p.c. back
to 1953.
Balance - sheet movements
reflect an improvement in turn-
over, book-debts ( less reserve)
increasing by £50,028 (17.9 p.c.)
and creditors by £29,309, while
stocks (at cost) dropped by
nearly 32 p.c. (down £39,485).
Uncertain markets, export sales
and tight money conditions
probably account for the fact
that book-debts are approxi-
mately four times the value of
stock:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.*
1956. 1957.
Paid capital ..£350,000 £350,000
Reserves * .. .. 257,045 205, jO3
Overdraft .. .. 165,701 115,995
Creditors, etc. .» 153,27 a 182,584
Tax provision .. 2,895 13,550
Final divs. .. 17,500
£929,516 £945,192
Freeholds .. 332,791 332,791
Plant .. .. 192,772 197,905
Stock .. .. 123,701 84,216
Debtors .. 279,089 329,717
Investments .. 563 563
Intangibles ..
£929,516 £945,192
* Accounts of subsidiaries made up to
November 30.
The overdraft was cut by
£49,706, and by the end of the
term working capital had
risen from £81,519 to £84,304.
Freeholds were revalued in
1955, plant and equipment (up
£5133) going into the accounts
on a more conservative cost-
/eAS-depreciation basis.
While trading conditions
have improved slightly in the
current term, subsidised exports
of wheat and flour from other
countries make profitable
exporting difficult and, bearing
this in mind, the sharemarket
prices Brunton’s f.-p. ss. units
at 3s. Bd. to yield 6.8 p.c. from
a 5 p.c. div.
McDowells, Ltd.
SHAREHOLDERS in depart-
ment-store retailer Mc-
Dowells, Ltd., have always been
treated generously, never more
so than in the last 13 years.
Since 1944 they have had
ordinary dividends at the un-
varying rate of 15 p.c. a year,
and two bonus-issues of scrip ;
in 1951, in the ratio of one-
for-five, to celebrate the
diamond-jubilee of the founda-
tion of the business ; and last
term on a one-for-two basis,
following a revaluation of free-
hold properties. Simultaneously
with this issue they were offered
117,090 new £1 ords., one-for-
three, at a 100 p.c. premium.
McDowells caters for average
tastes and average incomes, and
its store is well sited geographi-
cally in one of the busiest parts
of Sydney. Next month it
hopes to get occupancy of fche
new building in King-street.
Plans for further expansion
along the George-street front-
age, however, have appar-
ently been reconsidered and
abandoned. Last month the
sale was announced of the
freehold of No. 386 George-
street (adjoining its existing
premises) to Rigneys Pty., for
£115,000. Three years ago
McDowells bought the build-
ing for £lOO,OOO. So far the
board hasn’t indicated its
reason for the sale or how the
proceeds will be employed in
future operations.
Last term gross profit
(£907,766) edged up £23,174 but
operating expenses (£741,744,
up £32,165) were higher, too,
so although nothing extra was
considered necessary for depre-
ciation (£5000) and the tax-
provision (£55,000) was £5OOO
lighter, net profit slipped
£4190:
t Dividends •,
Feb., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.
£ p.c. p.e. £ £
’50.. 70,868 8 15 44,709 403,643
From tax prov’n, £58,545 462,188
Res. capitalised, £58,545.. 403,643
’51.. 78,910 8 15 53,491 429,062
'52.. 72,187 8 15 53,490 447,759
'S3.. 70,398 8 15 53,491 464,666
’54..101,330 8 15 53,491 512,505
'55..122,022 8 15 53,491 581,036
Assets revalued, £175,635 756,671
’56..110,213 S 15 53,491 813,393
Res. capiialisc-d, £175,635.. 637,758
Share premiums, £117,090 754,848
Unexp’d reduction, £lOO .. 754,748
’57..106,023 8 15 90,081 770,790
Calculated on the year’s average


00.
(Incorporated in N.S.W.)
1
2
RATE OF INTEREST PER
ANNUM PAID QUARTERLY
FOR 8-YEAR . .
. TO 10-YEAR TERMS.
PER ANNUM
Interest will be paid quarterly free of exchange.
FIVE TIMES savikcs bank interest
This is an opportunity to earn on your savings and receive tip to five times Savings
Bank Interest. It will return you an exceptionally Good Income on a quarterly basis.
Invest £l,OOO for 8 to 10 years and you will receive £3l/5/ free of exchange every
three months. Amounts from £5O to £5,000 accepted for periods from 3 months
to 10 years according to the desire of the Depositor. The Depositor may withdraw
at any time prior to due date according to the terms laid out in brochure.
METHOD OF DEPOSIT
Applications should be made to any of the following offices of the Company or you
may prefer to call or write.
SYDNEY
Mac’s Chambers,
304 Pitt St, Sydney.
Phone MA2872.
ELIZABETH
Philip Highway
Elizabeth, S.A.
Phone 2131.
ADELAIDE
Elizabeth House,
Nrth. Terrace,
Adelaide.
Phone W 6190.
The Secretary,
Pinnock Finance Co. Limited,
Box 4572, G.P.0., Sydney, or Box 1811 N, G.P.0.,
Adelaide.
Please forward me brochure on Pinnock Deposit
Plan.
NAME
B 1
ADDRESS
The Pinnock Manufacturing
Company'* factory in South
Australia, where Pinnock
and Fridor machine* are
to be produced.
paid-up capital the £106,023
profit, pref. divs. allowed for,
was 17.7 p.c. As ord. capital
stood at February 28 it repre-
sented 16.3 p.c. Remembering
that a lot of money was tied-
up in assets which contributed
nothing to the year’s earnings
the 15 p.c. div. looks quite safe.
Introduction of the new
capital, the bonus issue and
progress made on the King-
street annex are reflected in the
balance-sheet:
Paid capital— 1956. 1957.
Pref. .. .» £lO,OOO £lO,OOO
Ord. .„ .. 351,271 643,996
Reserves 813,395 770,791
Mortgage .. 40,000 40,000
Overdraft .. 5,077 44,682
Creditors 159,568 203,815
Tax provision .. 174,017 156,579
Pinal div. .. 35,527 64,799
£1,588,855 £1,934,662
Freeholds .. . 788,623 964,547
Plant .. .. 127,045 157,976
Stocks .. .. 286,843 267,651
Shares subsid. .. 90,903 90,903
Shares other cos. 19,388 33,063
Debtors .. 87,852 100,516
Due by subsid... 75,368 110,123
Cash, etc. .. 112,833 209,883
£1,588,855 £1,934,662
Freeholds and store-fittings
appeared £206,855 higher,
book-debts went up £12,664,
stocks fell £19,192, and there
was an extra £97,050 (£209,883)
cash on hand to put the finish-
ing touches to the new build-
ing and take care of current
needs of the business.
On ’Change the strengthened
demand for front-rank equities
has lifted the price of the ords.
from 48s. earlier in the year
to 565. At that price the yield
from the scrip is a satisfactory
5.4 p.c. on the basis of a 15
p.c. div. The well-protected
8 p.c. prefs. (£lO,OOO in share-
holders’ funds of £1,424,787)
are seldom traded. Net tangible
support for the prefs. is
£142 9s. 7d., for the ords.
435. 7d.
Jelapang Tin Dredging
T AST term, for the fourth
successive year, tribute-
payments accounted for most
of the income received by
Jelapang Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Net profit for the term, to
December 31, ’56, was £4889
(down £347), excluding an
amount of £972 written-back as
excess depreciation. A div. of
Is. 3d. per Is. share, subject
to Malayan tax of 30 p.c., was
paid last March. (All figures
are in sterling.)
Jelapang’s dredge was placed
on a care-and-maintenance
basis in December, ’52, and, to
date, efforts to locate a suitable
mining area have been unsuc-
cessful. The board is of the
opinion that sale of the dredge
would return only a nominal
amount and regards it as a
potentially valuable asset, as
long as the possibility of find-
ing new mining-sites exists. A
sizeable surplus of liquid
funds has been retained “in the
hope that something may turn
up in due course.”
Shareholders have had little
cause for complaint, however,
in the last few years, divs.
totalling over 335. (less tax)
between 1950 and 1954, when
95 p.c. of the paid capital was
returned reducing the par value
of the scrip from £1 to Is.
Since then the Is. shares have
earned divs. amounting to
3s. 6d. .
On December 31 last current
assets (£149.,236), mainly cash
and bonds, exceeded liabilities
by £143,328. There are 120,000
Is. shares, buyers currently
offering 19s. for the scrip. The
co. is a member of the Anglo-
Oriental group and last dredged
near Ipoh, Malaya.
Peninsula Tin, N.L.
Tl/TTHIN three weeks of
announcing that it “was
investigating the possibility of
disposing of [the co.’s] assets in
Thailand,” the board of
Peninsula Tin, N.L., has
approved the sale of the co.’s
property, dredge and other
mining assets for approxi-
mately £31,000.
The accounts for the year to
April 30 last have not yet been
published (the dredge did not
operate profitably during the
term), but at the close of the
preceding year fixed assets,
spares, etc., all in Thailand,
had a book-value of £256,088,
while stock, debtors and cash
exceeded liabilities by £80,867.
Paid capital is £199,387, the
f.-p. 15s. shares recently selling
at 4s. 3d.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT HENRY MEAD late of
Homebush. —T AKE NOTICE that
IRENE ELLEN MEAD has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 579 of 1957 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 14th day of August 1957 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from ROY F. TURNER, K. H. WILSON
& Co., Solicitors, of 850 George Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Sul scription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for... .months’ subscription to "The Bulletin," to
be posted weekly to
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 1 2/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign ....
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
£3/6/-
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
r T'HE uneasy feeling that not
•*- much in the way of tan-
gible gains had been achieved
by N.Z.’s trade-mission to
Britain proved to be well
founded when, after some
delay, results were announced.
The Leader of the Opposi-
tion, Mr. Nash, was aertainly
ungenerous when he said,
“Never have so many taken so
long at such cost and achieved
so little.”
On the other hand Prime
Minister Holland must have
been looking through rose-
colored glasses when he de-
scribed the results as “a solid
achievement.”
N.Z.’s main request, that
Britain should limit imports of
meat and dairy produce from
foreign , countries, was firmly
rejected.
Thus disappeared what the
leader of the mission, Mr.
Holyoake, described as “the
only effective means of ensur-
ing long-term stability for
N.Z.’s agricultural produce on
the British market.”
Britain has agreed to extend
to N.Z.’s dairy produce and
pork till 1967 the right of un-
restricted, duty-free entry to
the British market, already
enjoyed by meat.
This has been hailed as the
mission’s most important gain.
It may be used as some measure
of the total achievement when
it is realised that, though not of
right, both dairy produce and
pork already had free entry to
Britain and were under no
known threat of restriction.
In fact, two other points of
agreement, though intangible,
are likely to prove of far greater
significance:
(1) The United Kingdom has
promised to give sympathetic con-
sideration to remedial measures if
circumstances threatening serious
injury to N.Z.’s meat exports arise.
(2) Arrangements have been
made for an annual meeting (in
November) of representatives of
the two countries to discuss each
other’s agricultural production and
marketing problems.
The way is thus open for
repeated discussions, as a result
of which N.Z. may, if its need
proves great, obtain some
practical help from Britain.
.The annual talks will start
promptly with a meeting in
London next November. Nor-
mally the talks will be held at
an official level, but they will
jump to Ministerial level if
N.Z. is faced with a major
problem.
Meantime, now that its
major claims for protection
have been rejected, N.Z. in-
tends to ask for a complete
overhaul of the 25-year-old
Ottawa Agreement. Negotia-
tions for a full-scale revision
were not within the scope of the
trade-mission, but are expected
to start next March after the
Government has held full dis-
cussions with interested organi-
sations and has received the
Board of Trade’s delayed
report on its inquiry into N.Z.’s
tariff structure.
The president of Federated
Farmers, Mr. S. D. Reeves,
who was a member of the
mission, said afterwards that
the producer representatives
concluded from the British
attitude that active exploration
and development of supple-
mentary markets was essential
if N.Z.’s expanding production
was to be sold at remunerative
prices.
With a view to lowering the
cost of imported raw materials,
equipment and manufactured
goods N.Z. should obtain at
the earliest appropriate date
the right to modify the mini-
mum margin of tariff preference
that British goods received on
the N.Z. market.
Tariffs
The Board of Trade is ex-
pected to hand its report on
Customs tariffs to the Govern-
ment this month. When the
inquiry was held last year the
United Kingdom Manufac-
turers and New Zealand Repre-
sentatives’ Association asked
that the 3 per cent, primage
duty should be abolished
and that all margins of
preference enjoyed by the
United Kingdom should be
maintained. It also asked that
protective tariffs, where neces-
sary, should be fixed at a level
which would equalise the costs
of efficient production in the
U.K. and N.Z. The N.Z.
Manufacturers’ Association, on
the other hand, asked for a
15 p.c. increase in all tariff
rates, to provide a margin of
preference in favor of the local
producer. It also wanted an
allowance to cover protection
lost through exchange appreci-
ation. It asked the board to
take into consideration local
manufacturers’ higher costs for
labor and raw materials.
The Progress Loan
The terms of the Govern-
ment’s £2O-million Progress
Loan, embodying increases in
interest-rates of from | to }
per cent., caused no surprise.
The Government could not
have expected to raise such a
large sum at cheaper rates, and
investors, in view of current
market yields, could not have
expected better terms than
those offered.
With an election imminent,
the Government has an added
reason this year for wishing to
see that the loan is fully sub-
scribed, and its experts have no
doubt carefully assessed the
ability of the market to meet
the demands made upon it.
Compared with last year’s
offer rates are:
Last year, This year,
£.s.d. £.s.d.
per cent. per cent.
3-year 4 7 6 3-year 410 0
5-year 410 6 6-year 415 0
11-year 412 6 12-year 415 0
The following table shows how
average final maturity yields
on current stocks fell in the
three months before the new
loan was announced:
Yield per cent.
Feb. 21 May 23
£.s.d. £.s.d.
2to 4 years .. 414 11 4 9 7
5 years and over 4 16 3 4 13 9
Official buying support of
market is generally believed to
have been a major factor in
bringing about the reduction.
It will be rioted that the new
medium and long-term-rate of
£4 15s. per cent, neatly splits
the difference of 2s. 6d. be-
tween current market yield and
average yield three months ago
3vhen the stockmarket was at
its weakest point.
The Government has pro-
bably fixed the new rates at a
level at which it expects to be
able to hold yields.
Investors who, all too often
in the past, have seen their new
Government stocks go to an
early and quite substantial dis-
count, may look for a less dis-
couraging experience this time.
The L.-g. Rate
It is understood that the
Government is now considering
increasing local-body borrow-
ing-rates, at present limited to
£4 12s. 6d. per cent, for five
years, £4 15s. per cent, for eight
years or £4 17s. 6d. per cent,
for 12 years. Local bodies will
certainly be seeking restoration
of their traditional margin of
ss. per cent, over Govern-
ment rates, as they have
been finding it difficult enough
to raise money even with that
advantage.
On the same day that he an-
nounced the new loan Finance
Minister Watts reported on the
Public Accounts for the year to
March last. Though the Con-
solidated Fund showed a sur-
plus of £3.3 million, combined
current and capital accounts
revealed a deficit of £3.8 million
after total borrowing of £5l
million.
This is a welcome improve-
ment on the previous year’s
£ll-million deficit, but is still
not good enough to justify Mr.
Watts’s contention that in-
creased taxation imposed last
year would have a “very desir-
able disinflationary effect.”


A Not-so-happy Sand-boy
THIS week the 34th Queensland
Parliament meets to decide its own
fate. It was elected on May 19,
1956, and Constitutionally has
over two years to run, but the prophets
are talking in terms of weeks or even
days.
Labor came back from the polls last
year, as on every occasion since 1932,
with a substantial majority. It won 49
out of 75 seats, the same number it had
held in the previous Parliament, The
Opposition parties won 24 between them
(Country party, 16; Liberals, 8) and
there were two Independents—one of
them the raucous North Queensland
Labor representative for Mundingburra,
T. Aitkens, and the other C. Coburn,
M.L.A. for Burdekin.
On the night of the 1956 poll, when
victory was assured, Premier Gair
declared that he was “as happy as a
sand-boy.” Till then The Bulletin had
never thought of Gair as a sand-boy. For
that matter it had never given much
thought to sand-boys at all, and wasn’t
even certain what a sand-boy was apart
from the fact that he was obviously a
creature who had something to be happy
about.
The office Shorter Oxford was silent on
the subject, but Webster’s said the term
was “a popular name for any hopping
insect, such as a sand-flea.” A secondary
meaning was given as “formerly, in
England, a boy who peddled sand on the
beach.” At various times throughout his
career Gair has probably been accused
of slinging mud or of throwing dust in
the eyes of the electors —what politician
hasn’t? —but if he has peddled any sand
it must have been in very small
quantities ; certainly not enough to make
a salesman happy. On the other hand,
Premiers are not in the habit of thinking
of themselves as insects, hopping or
otherwise.
Gair gave no explanation for his choice
of the sand-boy simile, but as a reason
for his happiness he added that Labor
had faced the elections with a united
front. Q.C.E. chairman Bukowski, who
had been waging faction warfare against
the Premier for two years and knew as
well as Gair did that the united front
achieved for the duration of the election-
campaign had been the type of unity
achieved by slamming a piece of sticking-
plaster over a gaping wound, expressed
pleasure at the win, but reminded Gair
that the industrial wing of the party had
played a big part in ensuring it.
By April of this year the plaster had
been ripped off the wound, the united
front had been split down the middle,
the Premier and Bukowski were saying
about each other in public what they had
previously confided only to selected
audiences. By then Gair was about as
happy as a sand-boy who has had his
livelihood snatched away by rutile-mining
concessionaires.
Outwardly the reason for the split was
Gair’s refusal to obey the Q.C.E.
decision and legislate immediately for
three-weeks’ annual leave for all
employees in Queensland, but that is
scarcely a sufficient reason for ripping a
party in two. Neither faction pretends
any longer that it is. Gair, who has
gathered his half of the party (including
all his Cabinet except Duggan) into the
newly-formed Queensland Labor Party,
claims that he made a stand for the right
of a democratically elected Government
to govern without dictation from an
outside body. This would sound more
convincing were it not for the fact that
the Queensland Government, like most
other Labor Governments in Australia,
had always accepted its instructions from
the executive of the party.
Gair’s refusal to obey orders on this
occasion is no more a proof of his
repugnance to the procedure than it is
the reason for his expulsion from the
party. If he had surrendered on that
issue, another would have been found—
possibly the Oil Bill or the University Bill.
The fact is that Bukowski and Co., work-
ing in with, if not under instructions
from, the Evatt-Chamberlain junta, had
decided that the time had come to drop
Gair and establish Left-wing control
over the party —even at the risk of losing
the reins of government in the Queens-
land Parliament. This is no longer denied
by the rump A.L.P. in Queensland.
Duggan, its Parliamentary leader, in a
statement published in the “Courier-
Mail,” claims that in the eyes of the
A.L.P. Gair reached “the point of no
return” when, with Treasurer Walsh and
three other Queensland delegates, he
walked out of the Hobart conference
over two years ago. He says that Gair
then walked out of the Labor Movement
“in spirit,” and that what has happened
recently is merely a logical sequel to
Hobart..
This more-or-less explains the bust-up,
but it doesn’t explain why Duggan took
so long to find out that he was following
the wrong leader. He was deputy-leader
under Gair for more than two years
after the Premier made his spiritual
departure from the party, and during
that time he spoke in support of and
voted for all the measures he now
condemns. An A.L.P. advertisement
billing John Duggan as the new leader
of -the party speaks of his honesty of
purpose, his integrity and his political
capacity. The. same advertisement
contrasts the record of Premier Gair with
those of his two predecessors Forgan
Smith and Hanlon, mentioning, among
other things to be considered to Gair’s
discredit, “the Land Commission
scandal; the Creighton miscarriage of
justice; the infamous club legislation;
the University Bill, with no comparison
in the English-speaking world.” Electors
are asked to judge the former Labor
leader on his record.
How they can do so without delivering
similar judgment on Duggan, his chief
lieutenant, is a problem the Solomons of
the Q.C.E. may be able to answer to their
own satisfaction. Whether they can
answer it to the satisfaction of the electors
is another matter. Duggan voted with
Gair on all issues arising out of the
Lands Commission. He did not rise in
Parliament and protest that Creighton’s
dismissal was a miscarriage of justice.
That was left to the Opposition;
Duggan’s vote went to uphold the
injustice. He did not tell Parliament
the club legislation was infamous; he
voted for the infamy. He did not
condemn the University Bill; he voted
for it.
Opposition parties in the Queensland
Parliament have not made a very
impressive showing in recent years. This
is not surprising after so many years in
the wilderness. Before the Labor split
began to show they had almost reached
the stage of accepting the , Opposition
benches as their permanent home, feeling
that the electoral rolls and boundaries
were so much weighted in favor of Labor
that, nothing short of a miracle could put
it out of office. They’re now hopeful
that the miracle has come to Edward-
street.
Against all the murky dealings of the
Gair Government in the 12 months since
the Lands Commission the Opposition
parties have taken a strong stand, and
they are now in a position to remind the
electors that on all the valid counts on
which the Bukowski-Duggan faction is
now arraigning the Gairs they declared
themselves long ago and for so doing
were bitterly attacked by Duggan and
the men now standing behind him.
Further, when the crisis came in April,
Nicklin and Morris declined to take the
expedient course of giving temporary
support to a minority Gair Government
in return for a new-deal electoral Act.
Although Gair refused to disclose his
election plans before meeting the House
and protested that it was impracticable
to hold an election before September, all
parties (including his own) have spent the
last few weeks frantically preparing for
an early poll. Oppositi#n nominations
have already closed, and final selection
of candidates will be completed this
week. The closing day for Q.L.P. nomina-
tions was Monday and for the A.L.P.
yesterday (June 11). But without waiting
for an announcement of polling-day all
parties have already begun campaigning
for what should be Queensland’s
strangest election of the century, with a
Gair man and a Duggan man in almost
every electorate slang-whanging , each
other in fine style, with a Liberal or
Country-party candidate beseeching the
electors to believe ’em both. Under the
Queensland system of first-past-the-post
no Labor member who secured less than
60 per cent, of the votes at last election
can be considered safe this time—and
that means that two-thirds of the present
Labor M.L.A.s will be fighting for their
political lives.
At the moment there can’t be many
sand-boys in either Labor camp.


The Kindly Word
By R. S. PORTEOUS
<<-r-’LL have it short at the
I back and sides, please,”
JL I said.
“You’ll have her as she
comes,” my barber answered
tartly. “You ain’t in one of
your flash Sydney saloons
now.”
A sharp rap on my skul! with
the clippers gave emphasis to
the point.
“And never mind looking at
the coconuts. Just keep y’r
bloody ’ead down.”
I kept my head down, shift-
ing my gaze from the gently-
waving fronds of the coconut-
palms along the foreshore to
the rippling reflections of our
schooner on the blue-green
water of the harbor. For the
first time since I had known
him my barber was in a bad
mood.
If a city-dweller is dissatisfied
with his barber his remedy is
simple ; he goes to another man.
But on the lonely parts of the
New Guinea coast a man grate-
fully accepts the services of any-
one with a pair of clippers and
the smallest claim to pro-
ficiency in their use. He accepts
the haircut “as she comes,” con-
soling himself with the theory
that the difference between a
good and a bad haircut is only
one week.
It is a frustrating state of
affairs because, no matter how
efficient a man may be, he can’t
cut his own hair. Driven by
desperation some planters
attempt the job with a safety-
razor while the cook-boy holds
a mirror at the back of the
head ; some try singeing,
though they rarely attempt that
method more than once.
Others, resigning themselves to
torture and a jagged jail-crop,
hand the clippers to the cook-
boy and tell him to do his
worst. A few long-haired
optimists do nothing about it
beyond telling themselves hope-
fully that sooner or later some-
one will come to their rescue.
Personally I had nothing to
complain of. Rusty Martin
was recognised as the best
barber on the coast, and Rusty
was my temporary boss. At
least I was signed on as his mate
while I acquired some very use-
ful knowledge of this badly-
charted coast.
To know this big, easygoing
buccaneer was a pleasure ; to
sail with him was a constant
entertainment: and an education.
His schooner, Islander, was the
trimmest craft in the Island
trade and Rusty knew the
Island waters as no other man
knew them. He went every-
where, recruiting native labor,
trading, and carrying cargoes to
ports and plantations few
people had even heard of.
And at each of his ports of
call his services as a barber
were in demand. Always big-
hearted, always boisterously
cheerful, he had never been
known to refuse anyone.
He even cut Evan Hart's hair.
TPO say that Hart was the
most unpopular planter on
the Coast would be to under-
state. He was universally hated,
and it was my mention of his
name as I took my seat on the
taffrail serving as a barber's
chair that had ruffled Rusty’s
normal good-nature and caused
him to rap my unprotected skull
with the clippers.
“Evan flamin’ Hart!” he
snorted presently. “If you’ve
got nothin’ pleasant to talk
about, try keepin’ y’r trap
shut.”
And remembering the shady
swindle Hart had put over
Rusty the last time we called
at Kandaka Plantation I kept
my trap shut.
I could still see the faintly-
derisive smirk on the planter’s
face as he stood on his ram-
shackle jetty, shirtsleeves flop-
ping untidily around his
wrists and that ridiculous hat
perched squarely on his bullet-
head as he watched us get
under way.
Like Rusty, Hart was a big
man. But there the resemblance
ended, for Rusty was big in
every way, whereas Hart’s big-
ness stopped at the physical.
By nature he was small and
mean. Humor showed in every
line of Rusty’s angular and
weatherbeaten face, but Hart’s
face was round, pudgy and
completely humorless. His
small mouth drooped at the
corners, giving him always an
air of petulance. His hair was
black and wiry, growing
straight up like the bristles of
a hairbrush. I doubt whether
he ever brushed it; certainly
it had never known a parting.
Where the rest of us had our
particular little vanities in
haircuts, Hart always ordered
his “same as usual.” And “same
as usual” with him meant a
straightout jail-crop with not
even a longer patch of hair in
front. His cook-boy could
have done the job equally well,
but Hart was too mean to buy a
pair of clippers when he could
get the use of another man’s
for nothing.
And his clothes! Lord
knows none of us were snappy
dressers on that steamy coast.
A felt hat and khaki shirt and
trousers was the rig of the day
and its smartness on special
occasions depended on the
cook-boy’s ability with an iron.
I doubt whether Hart’s
clothes ever felt the pressure
of an iron nor were they often
washed. His shirtsleeves,
devoid of buttons, flapped
untidily over his knuckles and
his trousers sagged in folds over
his shoes, their frayed bottoms
always dragging in the dirt.
A wide-brimmed felt hat
usually takes on the character
of the wearer. The variety of
styles affected by our Aus-
tralian troops proved that the
Army-issue felt hat can be
smart, jaunty, sloppy or
blatantly flash. Hart's hat was
none of these. It sat squarely
on his bullet-head, always seem-
ing a size too small. And the
brim, instead of curving down
as any normal hat-brim would,
had a definite tendency to cur!
upwards in a saucerlike effect.


As Rusty once said, “a
bloody horrible-lookin’ lid.
Just like the bloke that owns it.”
QRIGINALLY Hart had
held Kandaka in partner-
ship with another man, a rather
delicate youngster whose health
soon broke down in the steamy
tropical heat. He returned
south, broken in health and
pocket, and it was common
talk that Hart had swindled
him out of his share in the
plantation.
Hart’s fellow-planters and
the various Government
officials could have overlooked
his personal appearance ; they
might even have forgotten his
treatment of his partner, but
they couldn’t forgive the way he
flouted custom and the rules we
all lived by. In a country like
New Guinea where a number
of white men lead solitary lives
hospitality takes a very impor-
tant place. A caller, whether he
be patrol-officer, surveyor or
wandering prospector, is
invariably pressed to share the
planter’s meal and stay for the
night. If there is liquor in the
house it is brought out.
Now, there’s a rule about
drinks on such occasions. If
the host has liquor, he offers it
to his guest and has some him-
self. It’s not necessary for him
to follow the example of the
Flynn boys and throw the cork
away when he opens a bottle ;
he is entitled to put the bottle
away after one drink if he feels
like it. But he does not swallow
a furtive drink in his bedroom
and fail to offer his guest one.
Evan Hart did. After first
making it clear that callers were
unwelcome he came to the table
smelling strongly of the whisky
he had not offered his guest.
Johnny Starr, Assistant District
Officer at Madang, claimed
that a man could get more hos-
pitality and better fare at any
native village than he could at
Kandaka Plantation.
Rusty Martin had more cause
than most men to hate Evan
Hart. Returning from a recruit-
ing trip up the coast he had
anchored for the night off Kan-
daka. The stop was purely a
goodwill call, typical of Rusty
and all his doings. There was
no cargo to be loaded, no profit
to be made. He went ashore,
gave Hart a free haircut and
collected his mail. That done,
he came back to the Islander
and turned in, intending to
get an early start next morn-
ing.
At daybreak, as the boys
were heaving up anchor, he dis-
covered that six of his recruits
were missing. The loss was
serious, for those boys were
worth £7 a head, once they
were signed on. And that was
the catch. Since the boys had
not been signed on before a
district-officer, Rusty could do
nothing. Nor could he under-
stand why they had cleared out,
since they had accepted his
trade and expressed their
willingness to sign on before the
Kiap.
A S soon as we reached
Madang Rusty reported
the matter and talked it over
with Johnny Starr.
“At Kandaka, you say?”
Johnny’s face, still showing the
strain of his recent patrol, lit
up' in interest. “I may have a
nasty mind, Rusty, but there’s
a very fishy smell about this.
Have you got the boys’
names?”
Rusty produced a notebook,
thumbed through several grimy
pages and passed it to the
Assistant District Officer.
“There they are,” he said.
Johnny went into the next
room and presently returned
with a file of contracts.
“I knew the thing stank,” he
announced grimly. “I signed
them on to Hart at Kandaka
on the last leg of my patrol.”
Rusty swore. He called Hart
a string of names that left the
toughened young Kiap gasping
in admiration. And having
exhausted his vocabulary he
said, “Never mind. I'll show
Mister Bloody Hart where he
gets off.”
“I’m afraid you can’t,
Rusty,” Johnny pointed out
quietly. “He’s put it over us
very shrewdly and there’s not
a thing we can do about it.
I’ve had dealings with that rat
before and I know his form.
His story will be that the boys
walked down the coast from
their village and engaged them-
selves to him, and for their
own protection the boys will
back him up.”
“You’re dead right there. A
man wouldn’t be in the hunt.”
Rusty shrugged his massive
shoulders. “But one of these
days I’m goin’ to do that bloke
over, and when I’ve finished
with him even a smart Kiap
like you won’t find enough bits
to hold a post-mortem on.”
/~>NE week later, the day after
steamer-day, we sailed
back up the coast. In the hold
we had an assortment of stores
for the various plantations and
in Rusty’s cabin there was mail
for everybody. We even had
mail for Evan Hart of
Kandaka.
For that is another of the
rules of men who live lonely
lives. You bring a man his
mail even though you hate his
guts. We were bound by those
rules and we never questioned
them, though we laughed at
the ridiculous customs and
taboos of the kanakas.
However, there was a point
beyond which even Rusty
would not go. Custom decreed
that the mail must be delivered;
it said nothing about the
manner of delivery. The
Islander’s bow nosed up, level
with the end of the jetty, com-
ing to a stop just close enough
to enable Yagura, Rusty’s boss-
boy, to pass the mail ashore on
the tip of a boathook.
Hart stood there without say-
ing a word, his sweat-stained
shirt-sleeves hanging over his
wrists and that ridiculous
saucer-brimmed hat perched
squarely on top of his head. He
removed the packet from the
end of the out-thrust boat-
hook and glanced aft at Rusty
with a faintly sneering smile.
You had to bring it, that
smile said. Even though you
hate me you had to deliver my
mail, you poor ignorant fool.
Our engine shuddered as we
went full astern and Hart
turned and shambled off down
the jetty.
“Couldn’t ’ave trusted me-
self with that boathook,” Rusty
said. “I’d ’ave shoved it fair
through his guts.”
We went on up the coast,
delivering stores and mail to
lonely plantations, often
anchoring off native villages to
trade. At Mushu Island we
turned back for Madang. It had
been an enjoyable trip and a
fairly profitable one, with only
our brief call at Kandaka to
mar its pleasure.
“And we don’t stop there on
the way back,” Rusty informed
me.
He was wrong.
The first coconut-palms of
Kandaka Plantation were
almost abeam one afternoon
when we saw a canoe heading
out from the beach. Four
natives, the sweat on their dark
backs glistening in the sun, were
paddling furiously to intercept
us.
At a sign from Rusty the
helmsman brought the Islander
up into the breeze and held her
there, her big sails slatting and
banging as they spilled the
wind. The canoe came along-
side and the Kandaka boss-boy
climbed aboard. He was a
middle-aged, responsible type
of native and his broad face
showed his concern as he
announced that “Master had
big fella sick and liked to die.”
A/TYSELF I felt like saying,
IVA “L et anc j g OOC j
riddance.” But Rusty wasn’t
made that way. He nodded
reassuringly to the boss-boy,
said “Makim canoe fast longa
stern,” and headed the Islander
for the plantation anchorage.
This time we went alongside
the rickety jetty and, leaving
Yagura and the boys to make
fast, hurried ashore.
Kandaka was not a well-run
plantation. Long grass and
patches of undergrowth grew
between the rows of palms and
overflowed across the path lead-
ing up from the jetty. Even the
buildings had a tired, neglected
air about them.
We found Hart lying on a
bed that looked as though it
hadn’t been made for weeks.
He was a very sick man indeed,
semi-conscious and unable to
tell us anything. Since it was
obvious that Hart needed a
doctor and needed one quickly,
Rusty wasted little time in try-
ing to make a diagnosis.
(Continued on page 57)
WRONG TURNING
Relapses and wrong turnings find the way
to the still garden where with dew the rose
hangs upside down in water, and the light’s
at rest in the bud it chose .
Always it’s at hand: the promised tree,
the pool of silence and the dreaming swan
that moves in its world of waiting and consent . . .
Always these remain, though we are gone
relapsing and wrong-turning and confused;
impatience, desperation : all resist . . .
O lost now in your maze say, I have failed.
But the swan and the garden and the rose exist.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.


AJVLP. progress in 1956
Record new
business increases
A.M.P. policies in force
to 2,700,000 and the
protection they provide to
1,281 million pounds
Extracts from the
Chairman's Address given at the
Society's 108th Annual Meeting:—
RECORD NEW BUSINESS
“Last year, the Society issued 149,265 new policies
insuring more than £152 million after deducting
re-insurances. This was £9 million more than the
Society underwrote in the previous year, and is
a splendid testimony of the support given to the
Society by the people of Australia and New
Zealand ... I think it is demonstrative of the
unique role which life insurance plays in family
security, that these record new business results
have been achieved in a year, in which economic
prospects fluctuated so widely.”
BONUSES INCREASED
«I am pleased to be able to announce that, on the advice
of the Society’s Chief Actuary, the surplus, arising as a
result of the year’s operations is sufficient’ to permit a
substantial rise in the rate of reversionary bonuses to be
allotted to both ordinary and industrial policyholders. The
increase in bonus rate varies with the particular type of
contract to which it applies, but for ordinary adult policies
the 1956 rate of bonus will be from about 10% to 15%
greater than the rates applying last year.
“In addition to increasing the rate of reversionary bonuses
allotted to industrial policies in respect of the year 1956,
the Board has also approved an increase in reversionary
bonuses allotted in recent years and still in force.”
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY • GENERAL MANAGER: M. C. BUTTFIELD
. oar j. CECIL H HOSKINS, Chairman; WILLIAM A. MACKAY, Deputy Chairman;
S HON T A J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.; G. GORDON RUSSELL; C. G. CRANE;
5. G. KUwe, nun. n VINCENT C. FAIRFAX.
Bean A M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding £345,000,000
*** which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to member*.
£
MILLIONS
1,200
1,100
1,000
900
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
1941
GRAPH SHOWING TOTAL BUSINESS
BENEFITS UNDER POLICY CONTRACTS
“The number of policy contracts in force on the Society’s
books at the close of 1956 exceeded 2,709,000, insuring a
total (including bonuses) of over £1,281 million.
“Last year the Society paid out almost £7 million in death
claims, and nearly £9 million to the holders of policies
which matured during the year. These benefits were used
to provide for many purposes including the support of
families deprived of their breadwinners, death duties,
retirement benefits, overseas travel, education of children,
repayment of housing mortgages and other needs, all of
which demonstrate the versatility and usefulness of
A.M.P. policies.”
LAND DEVELOPMENT SCHEME
“As a result of the Society’s land development operations
in the Coonalpyn Downs Area in South Australia, more
than 60 settlers have now been allotted properties com-
prising well developed pastures, adequately fenced and
watered, with homesteads either erected or in the course
of construction. From experience to date, it is evident
that settlers who have acquired land from the Society are
achieving good results and are already on their way to
building up a satisfactory equity in their properties . . .
The Society has, as a result of this project, been able to
open up a new area of farm land which will, by the end
of this year, permit Australia to carry the equivalent of
150,000 additional sheep.'*
fro
SOB4D


Rhadomanthus Arrives
We Bought a Brahman
BY NINDA
SOME think the only place for a
Brahman is behind a plough in an
Indian paddyfield. Maybe they are
.right? Maybe!
Before we bought ours my friend and
I carefully studied all available literature
on the Brahman and its cross-breeds. A
glowing account by an enthusiast, telling
of the Brahman qualities of tick-resis-
tance, hardiness, milk-production in the
female and beef-production in the male,
docility and tractability, had us in an
equally enthusiastic frenzy.
Then we would come to a leaflet
written by a sceptic, who would predict
nothing short of doom, bedlam and
financial disaster for anyone foolish
enough to enter the ranks of the Zebu-
breeders.
The night before we ordered our bull
we had just skipped through the bundle
of optimistic booklets. The following
day a batch of very discouraging ones
arrived. We, like fools, read them. So
that when Rhadamanthus de Manso
arrived per float two days later we were
worried sick and a bit regretful.
The leaflets warned us that Brahmans
are very highly strung and excitable,
responding only to the quietest and best
methods of cattle-management ; so we
had Dolly, the old mare, tied-up by the
yard just in case.
The driver let down the back of the
truck, and Rhadamanthus walked
slowly down Ihe ramp into the yard, his
long white ears flopping as he walked.
He was even stranger than we had
imagined.
Dolly took one look, and, with a snort
of fear, pulled away and took off for her
dear life. We felt like doing the same,
for the driver had left us. But someone
had to stay! Dolly careered madly
around, upsetting a stack of empty
molasses-drums and upending a squawk-
ing broody hen.
Then we left our bull and went after
the runaway Dolly, who was whinnying
wildly as she fled.
Rhadamanthus, when we left, was in
the receiving-yard.
When we returned with Dolly—still
shivering and shaking; a phrase that
applied equally to the three of us—Rhad
had already jumped two fences and was
negotiating the third and last. Before
we could do anything, he had negotiated
it—successfully. Betty jumped on Dolly,
but Dolly only showed a remarkable apti-
tude to back, and no ability at all in the
forward gears. We tied her up securely,
and set off on foot.
Our bull had daintily leapt the house-
enclosure and was sniffing at the floral
borders. By the time we caught-up he
had settled for the cement floor of our
downstairs liying-room, and was con-
tentedly chewing his cud and a trail of
blue convolvulus.
Fear clutched our hearts. Knowing the
unpredictability of Brahmans—especially
bulls—we wondered just how on earth we
were going to shift him. We stood our
distance, and clucked encouragingly.
Rhadamanthus sat his cement and
regarded us with his limpid brown eyes.
We came closer, and Bet cautiously
prodded his rump with a long stick. We
edged even closer, for the bull appeared
to be really quiet. We got gamer and
“You mean it's unusual?”
gamer, until we were slapping his rump
and ribs with our bare hands!
Rhad chewed his cud, and looked at
us—pityingly, I thought.
Finally, we solved the problem.; A
rope twisted around his nose and a hitch
around his neck, one tug from me and
a push from Betty, and our fierce bull got
up and walked off without so much as a
grunt.
It did not take us long to see that
Rhadamanthus was the quietest animal
since Ferdinand and the Reluctant
Dragon. He was a dirty-white, with
large, brown, expressive eyes, and larger,
more expressive ears. He had a head
totally unlike any bovine we had seen to
date, and a camel-like hump perched
awkwardly on his withers. He had long
legs—which, the critics pointed out, were
more suited to a race-track than to a
butcher’s hook—and, as the Beef-cattle
Expert put it, “a very pronounced
umbilical fold and swinging dewlap.”
All in all, he looked little like a beef-
bull . . .
Rhad’s predecessor, a big Hereford,
was not yet off the premises, and was still
lording it in the cow-paddock. We led
Rhad down into his new home, but he
seemed more content on discovering the
choice clumps of Guinea-grass than on
discovering his harem,
Hercules, the Hereford, soon noticed
our Rhad, and came roaring down, raking
up the lesser grasses. It put the fear of
the devil into us, but not into Rhad.
Hercules was a bit puzzled that this
queer-looking animal didn’t take up his
challenge, and paused in his ragings to
take stock. Finally, he decided on action,
With a roar, he lowered his head and
charged at Rhad s
grazing rump.
Rhad moved out
of range. Hercules
repeated his perform-
ance. Rhad repeated
his, and kept on
eating.
This went on for
some time, till we
were sure we had a
lily-livered, as well as
lily-colored, bull in
our midst.
Then. while
Hercules was tearing
up the grass in his
lunatic frenzy, Rhad
came at him.. The
last we saw of
Hercules he was
heading for the hills,
breaking and
blundering through
every fence he came
to. Rhad had more
consideration for two spinster owners—
he jumped his fences clean.
A “Lost” notice located Hercules, and
a “For Sale” soon sold him. There was
no turning back. We had taken the final
step. With Rhadamanthus settled-in with
his adoring wives, we were breeders of
the Brahmans.
Everything in our cow-paddock was
lovely till the day Bet brought the
bananas up from the back-paddock. To
do so, she took the short-cut through the
cow-paddock, a thing she would never
have done in the Hereford’s time, for we
believed bulls weren’t to be trusted,
especially by the aforementioned not-
juvenile spinsters.
Rhad, however, was “different.” So
we thought.
We were wrong, it appeared, for Bet
said no sooner did he spot her coming
than he came racing towards her, tossing
his head, flopping his ears and bucking,
Bet did what you or I would have done—
she ran. So did Rhad ; and by the simple
expedient of leaping fences he was right
(Continued on page 56)


m
i
Write Now to
C. T. LORENZ
the Specialist in
CAMERA
MAIL
ORDERS
We are shortly expecting • the
arrival of a shipment of
VOIGHTLANDER and
AGFA Cameras. This stock is
in short supply ! Prominent,
Vitessa L and Vitessa T with
interchangeable lens, Veto B
and Veto BL. AGFA Silette
and Super Silette Many
accessories.
Large stocks of LINHOF and
BELL & HOWELL equipment.
To be certain ORDER
NOW!
AH goods personally
guaranteed by
C. T. LORENZ
185 PITT ST..
Sydney BL 3431
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
!he Horses
At time of writing it looks
i if horses from the four
astern States of Australia and
om New Zealand will be
iving a crack at the Q.T.C.’s
10,000 Stradbroke Handicap
id £12,315 Brisbane Cup
> be run on the Ascot track
ext Saturday and Monday,
ver seven furlongs and two
files respectively.
Visiting horses, as usual,
ppear to have something on
le Brisbane-trained contenders
l the Stradbroke, but Book
.ink, at least, should be strong
pposition in the Cup.
For the Stradbroke: Man-
ingos, 1 ; Fair Chance, 2;
'ommedia, 3.
Cup: Macdougal, 1 ;
lombrero, 2 ; Book Link, 3.
Knave (who won his first
ace in America last week)
lefeated Teranyan and King's
<air in the Stradbroke last
vinter, and Redcraze landed
he Brisbane Cup, from
"aranna and Beaupa.
Stradbroke Handicaps were
‘or long run over six furlongs,
rhey date back to 1890, the
listance being increased to
seven furlongs -in 1953. In
•ecent seasons successful visit-
ng horses, in addition to
fCnave, have been Plato,
fCarendi and Suncup.
The Brisbane Cup dates back
to 1866, when Forester won
with 9.11 over 2\ miles. The
first Cup run at Eagle Farm
was in 1871. Seven of the last
10 winners were trained away
from Brisbane.
Fair Chance was a Strad-
broke outsider before his im-
pressive win in the Flying at
Rosehill last Saturday. Having
his first run for Randwick
trainer T. J. Smith and his first
start for some weeks since
arriving from New Zealand,
Fair Chance was ridden by
G. Moore, yet he eased
from 10’s to 25’s and started
at 20’s. His trainer gives him
a second-to-none chance in the
Stradbroke. In that race the
New Zealander drops 31b. to
9.2, and the seven furlongs
should suit him better than the
six at Rosehill. A six-year-old
gelding, he won the Doomben
Cup (11 furlongs less 22yds.)
last winter.
Macdougal’s breeding-lines
—he has a stayer’s pedigree —
were set out in these columns
last month. His latest success,
in the Rosehill Handicap
(Hm.), was a strong pointer to
the Brisbane Cup, in which
he will again be ridden by
G. Podmore, who has been
in the saddle for the last three
wins by this much-improved
galloper. It will mean that Mac-
dougal, who has 7.1 in the Cup,
may have to carry about 41b.
over. He won at Rosehill with
7.10; his time for the race
about a second outside the race-
record. Podmore won the last
Melbourne Cup on Evening
Peal, a stablemate of Mac-
dougal.
On successive Saturdays at
Rosehill, Randwick trainer
Charles Cullen has won the
opening event for Ken Living-
stone, who has a property in
the Moree district. On the first
day Westquarter won for that
owner, and last Saturday
Livingstone and his wife, who
race Lady Bonton in partner-
ship, had a win with that Del-
ville Wood (imp.) filly.
• • • •
As two - year - old gelding
Nyroca, winner of the Rosehill
Maiden for colts and geldings,
had done little racing and had
shown poor form, some of his
backers secured 33 to 1 about
him ; he started at 14’s. He
is one of the few gallopers by
the imported sire Leica racing
in N.S.W. Leica won nine
races in England, in one of
which he carried topweight,
9.6. He is by Panorama, and
his oldest progeny are three-
year-olds. Of the few to race
to date, other winners include
Trois Model, Tricky Gown
and Never Better (all in W.A.)
and In Focus (Q.). Nyroca
also has an imported dam,
Road Test. He won in fine
style, and could quickly emerge
from the minor ranks.
• • • •
No. 23 at the barrier, almost
the extreme outside, didn’t
prevent Canterbury - trained
Belarco from winning the
Second Parramatta Stakes at
Rosehill, but it did stop many
intending punters from sup-
porting the Belvedere (imp.)
three-year-old. He gave G.
Podmore his third winning-
ride of the afternoon. Bill
Sayers trains the gelding, whose
dam, Madam Duvach, a half-
sister to a Melbourne Cup
winner, Hiraji, is a Robin
Goodfellow (imp.) mare from
Duvach by Foxbridge (imp.)
from Sunny Song (winner of
14 races over distances up to
1| mile) by Hunting Song
(imp.).
• •' • • )
Though veteran jockey Jack
Dennett hadn’t ridden a city
winner for a couple of decades
or more, he rode a Jim Pike
race to win the final Rosehill
event, the Welter, on Grenoble,
who eased in the betting from
5 to 2 to 5 to 1 when Jack’s
name was semaphored as the
three-year-old’s rider. There
was heavy support for several
of his rivals, particularly the
runner-up, Royal Feast, backed
from 7’s to 3-to-l favoritism.
Dennett rode many winners on
the former Sydney “pony”
tracks ; in recent months he’s
been doing the rounds of the
southern fixtures in N.S.W.,
with success in the Bega and
Canberra areas.
••* • •
New Zealanders On Parade
and Emphatic won the main
double at Ipswich (Q.) at the
weekend the John Canty
Stakes (six furlongs) and the
mile-and-a-quarter Cup. On
Parade is in the Stradbroke and
Emphatic in the Brisbane Cup.
Emphatic won with 8.9 and
drops 21b. in the two-miler.
New Zealand owner-breeder
R. J, Koberstein retained
Emphatic for racing ; a wise
decision, as the gelding has
now won about £20,000 in
stakes. On Saturday he was
a 50-to-l shot. Emphatic is
by Sabaean (imp.) from
Prophetic by Robin Good-
fellow (imp.); he comes from
the family which produced
notable stayers Beau Vite,
Skipton and Wotan.
• •••
Lovers of steeplechasing were
well catered for at Moonee
Valley on Saturday, when the
Findon Hunt Club conducted
the meeting. For club mem-
bers the main attraction was the
Findon Hunt Steeple for
qualified hunters ridden by
either amateur or professional
riders. The hunters found the
re-brushed fences a stiff test,
and only half the field of 10
completed the course. The race
went to Howdy, a six-year-old
gelding by former New Zealand
stayer Howe (who won a
Moonee Valley Cup and was
runner-up in Red Fury’s
Caulfield Cup). Howdy gave
a good exhibition of jumping,
and was well handled by Neil
Hocking, a 17-year-old amateur
having his first mount in a race.
Howdy is owned by Bill
Graham, treasurer of Moonee
Valley Racing Club, and an
enthusiastic supporter of
hunting.
• • • •
In the other jumping event—
the Wollert Steeple—Franstone
earned a start in the National
with a win over Van Perri.
These two horses have met at
their last three starts, and
provided the crowd with plenty
of excitement each time. The
length that Franstone won by
last Saturday was the biggest
margin that has separated them
in the three races. Western-
district rider E. Byrne rode
Franstone to the lead from the
start, to make Van Perri carry
his 12.2 every yard of the way.
From the mile the two horses
had the race to themselves, but
despite B. R. Smith’s vigor and
skill Van Perri could not quite
run to the leader. Franstone
has now won three of his last
five races and been placed in


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE —MARINE —ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office; 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION. Manager.
Branches in all State* Agencies in nil Country Centres
DUPLICATOR
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
FRIGES ON
APPLICATION
Has all the finest features
•I high-priced imported
machines at only a trac-
tion oi their cost. The
“National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plane*
Mueic. etc.
Built amtirely in Australia by
JACKSON £ O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
DiiuHmlirng. Jffit—
KTDNtT W. C. r«f«M * Ce. rtf. in.
MCLBUI'IM . Karma Krai. Tty. U 1
ADELAIDE . Vardan Price U 4.
mta D*«k«4 Seek Ce.
the other two. He should give
a good display in the National.
• • • •
Western District, who had
been consistent but unlucky,
broke through for his first win
when he took the first division
of the Bournefield Park Handi-
cap for two-year-olds. With
stable apprentice Kevin Unwin
claiming 71b., Western District
carried only 7.10, and was able
to gain a break which the
heavily - weighted favorite,
Moral, could not bridge.
Owner A. J. McCrow bred the
winner, who is by High Peak
(imp.) out of Lhenga by Dhoti
(imp.).
Second division of the
Bournefield went to Highfire,
Who, because he was ridden by
Bendigo apprentice Percy
Jenkins, having his first mount
in the city, started at a much
longer price than his form
warranted. The lad was
warmly applauded for his dis-
play, and leading trainer Roy
Shaw, who prepares Highfire,
intends to have Jenkins’s
indentures transferred to him.
Highfire, a bay colt by
Empyrean (imp.) out of Macis,
was bred by his owner, C. O.
Fairbairn, who has been
prominent in Victorian racing
for many years. High Peak and
Empyrean, sires of the winners
of each division, were both by
the great English sire Hyperion.
Ten furlongs—no more, no
less—seems to be the distance
Trickster likes. In winning the
first division of the Epping
Handicap for three-year-olds
Trickster recorded his third
victory in as many starts over
that distance. His form in other
races has been poor. A geld-
ing by former smart sprinter
Nestor, Trickster is owned in
N.S.W., but raced on lease by
Mrs. R. M. Hutchins, wife of
trainer R. J. Hutchins,
• • • •
The second division of the
Epping was won by the Carbon
Copy gelding Battle Order, on
whom apprentice Alan Yeo-
mans gave a good display. The
lad kept Battle Order close to
the lead until the half-mile,
where he dashed him away to
open up a break that was still
five lengths when the post was
reached. Trainer J. P. Mulcahy
ha* always had a high opinion
of Battle Order, and it may be
that the gelding is ready to
justify that confidence.
• • • •
Sir Victor Sassoon’s Crepello
(6/4 favorite) won the Eng-
lish Derby, with Ballymoss
(33’s) second, and Pipe of
Peace (100 to 8) third, the last-
named ridden by A. Breasley.
There were 22 starters in the
classic, with first - money
£18,669. Crepello was the
shortest-priced winning favorite
in 22 years. He was ridden
by 21-year-old Lester Piggott,
who three years ago won the
“Stop teasing them—cant you Wait till We get to the
spot Joe told us about ?”
blue riband on Never Say Die.
Sir Victor Sassoon won the
1953 Derby with Pinza. Piggott
also won the Oaks Stakes on
the Queen’s filly Carrezza,
trained by H. Murless, mentor
of the latest Derby winner.
Ballarat breeder Ern Craig
had reason to be pleased with
Crepello’s win. His new
stallion, Affreux, is closely
related to Crepello on his
dam’s- side.
When entries for the Mel-
bourne and Caulfield Cups
closed last week, the V.R.C.
had received 441 nominations,
46 less than last year, and the
V.A.T.C. 396, down 21. At
243, local entries for the Mel-
bourne Cup were nine more
than last year, but the 187 inter-
state and 10 New Zealand
nominations were well down.
Best-ever figures were set in
1948, when there were 541
entries for the Melbourne Cup,
and 483 for the Caulfield. Non-
entry of the New Zealander
Sombrero was a surprise.
Tommy Smith paid-up for 19
horses, the biggest entry from
one trainer.
+ +
And Sundry Sports
Hawthorn, beating South
13.11-9.14,. remains on top of
the V.F.L. table, and is now
one win ahead of the next four
teams. Melbourne won its first
away-from-home game this
season, knocking-over Carlton
to do so, 14.15-10.11. The
Demons virtually won by a
splendid last - term effort.
Essendon clouted Geelong
21.12-15.12, full-forward Fred
Gallagher kicking 12 goals.
Here again the Dons won in
the last quarter, the teams
being level at threequarter-
time (12.9 each). Footscray
walloped Collingwood 12.17-
6.4, while North, now a team
which can’t be treated airily as
in recent years, hung on to
beat Fitzroy 10.17-10.11. Rich-
mond had its second succes-
sive win by a two-point
margin, this time over St.
Kilda 11.15-10.19, winning in
time-on.
“Kejokada”: The 31 behinds
kicked by Fitzroy when it lost
to Richmond recently were not
a V.F.L. record, though close
to it. The “honor” goes to
Melbourne, which booted
12,34 against North in 1940,
though the Demons still man-
aged to win by 50-odd points.
Geelong kicked 21.31 against
Essendon in 1934, and went one
behind better (19.32) against
South in 1938. The worst
kicking-effort of all was pro-
bably Fitzroy’s 2.27 against
Geelong in 1928.
* * *
When Queensland scored the
first try, soon after the start,
to lead N.S.W. 3-2, it looked
as if the return inter-State
Rugby League match in
Sydney might be a bit more of
a game ; but, though Queens-
land, keeping possession, did
manage to hold-down N.S.W.
for parts of both halves, the
Northerners had little effective
answer when N.S.W. did get
the ball, and the fast N.S.W.
backs ran through at will.
N.S.W. 45-12—and had lock-
forward Clay’s try, which
looked quite legitimate, been
allowed, the score might have
been the round half-century.
N.S.W. has now inflicted
four resounding defeats on
Queensland this year —49-11
and 29-12 in Brisbane, and
69-5 and 45-12 in Sydney.
Records went in the 69-5
fiasco. The previous-biggest
defeats of the Maroons by
N.S.W. were two 65-9 defeats
in 1911 and 1912, while Greg
Hawick’s 15 goals beat the
previous - best inter - State
record, 12 goals by Queens-
land fullback Danny O’Connor
in 1940. Hawick’s 30 points
fell two short of the record
32 points (four tries and 10
goals) set by Dally Messenger
in the 1911 game mentioned.
With fullback Clifford back in
the side and with a straight
boot on, Hawick didn’t get a
kick in the return game.
“Sam”: Former Queensland
and Australian Rugby League
half-back Duncan Thompson
made an amende honorable to
N.S.W. and Australian League
half-back Keith Holman after
Holman’s great play in Queens-
land this season. Thompson,
one of the greatest half-backs
Australia has produced in


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA —IN Divorce.
No. 5H of 1057.
TO MAURICE ASHLEY WILKINS
■whose last known address was 370 Eliza-
beth Street Hobart in the State of Tas-
mania.—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition
has been filed in this Court endorsed
with a Notice to you to appear and
answer charges in the Petition of
THORA JOAN WILKINS of 372 Sandy
Ray Road Hobart in Tasmai ia married
woman praying for a dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of desertion
In default of your so appearing you
will not be allowed to address the Court
and the Court will proceed to hear
the said Petition proved and pronounce
judgment therein your absence notwith-
standing AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
within thirty days after the date of
this publication an appearance must be
entered at the Principal Registry of
the Supreme Court, Macquarie Street,
Hobart, in the State of Tasmania. —
HATED the Sixteenth day of May. 1957.
—H. R. HOBBIE, Principal Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. — In DivoncE.
TO ARTHUR EDWIN HICKS late of
Ryde.—TAKE NOTICE that INA
BETTY-HICKS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1060 of 1956 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under Section 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899
If you wish to def ;nd you may enter an
appearance hi the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 14th day of August 1957 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from ROY F. TURNER, K. H. WILSON
& Co., Solicitors, of 350 George Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
TO IVOR DESLEY SIIAPLAND for-
merly of Shield Street RedclilFe in the
State of Queensland but now of parts
unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your
wife MARY GRAY SHAPLAND of 45
Ormond Esplanade Elwood in the State
of Victoria has filed a Petition for
Divorce against you in the Supreme
Court of Victoria which Petition is
numbered 332 of 1957 on the ground
of desertion without cause continuously
for three years and upwards If you in-
tend to defend this suit you must enter
an Appearance at the office of the Pro-
thonotary Supreme Court Law Courts
Melbourne on or before the 15th day
of July 1957 Should you fail to do
this the suit will proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay
costs A copy of the Petition and Cita-
tion and the Petitioner’s Affidavit in
support of her Petition may be obtained
by you without charge on application
to the Petitioner’s Solicitors whose
address is hereunder: MALLESON
STEWART & CO., 105 King Street,
Melbourne.
The KEROSINE
used by the
ANTARCTIC EXPEDITION
m
burns WARMER,
CLEANER, BETTER
•B*
KNin
* It's easier and there's
a saving if you bring your
own container.
You can buy * Coralite
Kerosine by the tin where
you see these pumps . . .
BP
SUPER
ALSO OBTAINABLE AT SELECTED STORES,
C.O.R AGENTS AND DEPOTS
Marketed by THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD, an associate of
The British Petroleum Company Ltd CSI7R
either Rugby code, said “Up
to this week I always thought
Holman was a great lock-
forward. I’m satisfied now
that he’s the greatest half-back
I’ve seen. I wouldn’t hold a
candle to him.” Reference to
Holman being “a great lock-
forward” was made in the past
by Thompson, and other Rugby
League veterans, who argued
that a half-back who tackled as
hard as Holman does could not
be a great constructive half.
Except for old-timers who
won’t have it that anyone of a
later day is any good, it is now
generally agreed that Holman
can rank in greatness with any
Rugby half-back of the past.
“Tom”: Stehr is so unusual
a surname that it would seem
to be a safe bet that any two
people bearing it would be
related. That, however, was not
the case as regards Arnold and
Ray Stehr, manager and coach
respectively of the N.S.W.
Rugby League team that visited
and whipped Queensland this
season. Ray Stehr, of course, is
the Stehr who was one of the
first choices for any Australian
Rugby League Test-team in the
’thirties.
* * *
In Sydney’s Rugby Union,
Gordon, at the top of the table,
thumped Parramatta 31-5;
second-top St. George defeated
East 3-0 (the points from a
penalty-goal by Eddie Staple-
ton a few minutes after the
start); Randwick drubbed
injury-rent University 25-13
(the Students’ two tries came
right at the end when Rand-
wick eased-up); Manly beat
Drummoyne 19-8 ; and North
came from behind to head
Eastwood 14-9.
Other weekend football in
N.S.W.: The Rugby Union
All Blacks, in a drab game,
beat Newcastle 20-9, 14 of
N.Z.’s points coming from the
boot of Don Clarke, who took
his total points along to equal
the record 88 set by winger
Jarden in 1951 ; in a bright,
open curtain-raiser to Satur-
day’s inter-State League game,
in what was a further trial for
some World Cup aspirants,
“Metropolitan” beat
“Northern” 30-17; at Aus-
tralian Rules on Sunday, Com-
bined Australian Universities
defeated N.S.W. 12.12-12.8. .
* * *
“Tom”: It isn’t very often
that two brothers contest
the final in a sporting
event, as in the 1957 Aus-
tralian bowls singles champion-
ship at Launceston (Tas),
Albert Newton, of City Club,
Sydney, beating brother Bill,
of the same club, 30-20.
* * *
“Veryl”: Balding 31-year-
old Jack Cessnock
(N.S.W.) Soccer centre-for-
ward, is often unjustly accused
by supporters of other coal-
fields clubs of being much
older. Reasons for this are
the disappearing thatch plus
memories of two Jack Drink-
waters who played in the
’thirties, one, tin uncle, with
Aberdare, the other (no rela-
tion) with Weston. The present
one, recognised as one of the
toughest Soccer-players in
N.S.W., gets his fair share of
goals, and did his part to-
wards Cessnock winning last
year’s State premiership.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads"
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Father J. Schebesta’s
Pidgin, Grammatik (Catholic
Mission, Alexishafeii, T.N.G.
Mimeographed pre - 1939 - war
edition); Scott’s Australian Dis-
covery; and African Nature-notes
and Reminiscences, by Selous
(Lond., 1908).—6522.
To buy J. Shaw’s Captain Storm-
along (1898), also A Treatise on
Sheepbreeding (1868) and The
History of Merino-breeding (1849),
both by T. Shaw. —6523.
To buy following copies of “The
Australian Quarterly”—Nos. 1,3, 4,
6,7, 9-12, 14, 15, 17, 18, 21-28,
32; Vol. 9 (Nos. 1,3); Vol. 11
(No. 2); Vol. 12 (Nos. 2-4); VoL
13 (Nos. 1,3); Vol. 14 (Nos. 2,4);
Vol. 15 (No. 3); Vol. 18 (Nos. 1,2,
4); Vol. 19 (Nos. 1,2); Vol. 27
(Nos. 2,4); Vol. 28 to date. —
6524.
Wanted, following copies of “The
Emu,” a quarterly magazine of the
Royal Australasian Ornithologists’
Union—Vol. 8 (No. 5); Vol. 12
UNO. 3, suppl.); Vol. 20 (No. 1);
Vol. 44; Vol. 54 to date.— 6s2s.
To buy the Register of Australian
and New Zealand Shipping —
Register for the years 1874-75,
1876-77, 1879-80, 1883-84 to 1886-87,
1926-27, Ist suppl. to 1934 Register
(1935); 2nd suppl. to 1946 Register
(1947-48).—6528.
Wanted Vol. 1 (Nos. 3,6); Vol.
2 (No. 9); Vol. 4 (No. 2) of “Man-
kind,” official journal of the
Anthropological Society of N.S.W.—
6527.
Information Sought
In using wattlebark-tanning liquor
it becomes altered in some way,
thus spoiling the tanning . What
preservative is necessary to put
things right ?
Without an analysis of your
process, impossible to say what has
affected the tan liquor. Suggest you
check the following points: The
vessel used should be of wood or
enamel, not galvanised-iron; the
water should be reasonably pure
water from an uncontaminated
source, preferably rainwater; the
wattlebark should be taken from a
known variety useful for tanning.
To verify the last point, consult the
Forestry Department of your State
lor assistance in identifying the
trees. If you are doing much tan-
ning, buy a book on the subject,
preferably Australian because ot the
native barks used here.
* * * *
(1) What is the speed of the fastest
bombing-plane and the country to
which it belongs ? (2) Fastest
fighter-plane and its speed? (3)
Fastest passenger jet-plane and its
speed ?
The following answer comes from
H. R. Rayner, R.A.A.F. Public-
relations Officer, Sydney: There is
really no satisfactory answer to the
question. Bombers are built for
high and low level, short and long
range, and to carry varying loads.
Fighters are for day and night, etc.
Even then the experts don’t agree
on which are fastest and best,
because speeds vary with loading
and flight conditions. (1) there are
many types of bombers —high, low
level; long, short range; etc. In
the popular concept of “atom-
bombers,” however, the British “V”-
bombers (Vulcan, Valiant and
Victor) are generally regarded as the
best in their class, but they are in
the subsonic-speed range. The
American 858 (now at pre-prod uc-
tion flying) is supersonic, however.
No Russian performances are avail-
able. (2) All countries,and companies,
have plans for new fighters, and all
claim fantastic speeds, but not all
cf them get to production, let alone
squadron-service. At present
Britain holds the world speed-record
with the Fairey Delta II (flown by
Peter Twiss in March last year) over
straight-level flight course; it
reached 1132 m.p.h. The American
Flo4a Starfighter, however, is cur-
rently claimed as fastest fighter in
production, but best performances
are still not known. Again, no
Russian performances available. (3)
As for passenger-jets, the Russian
TUIO4 seems to hold the palm for
the fastest jet on a regular passenger-
service. Subsonic speed. (Speed of
sound: “Mach One” is the speed
of sound, which is 761 m.p.h. at
ground-level of standard atmos-
pherics, falling to 660 m.p.h. at
around 36,000 ft., above which it
remains constant.)
* * * *
(1) Flames of some of the
Pyramid-building Pharaohs 7 (2)
Why did the Pharaohs build the
Pyramids ?
(1) The most famous of the
Pyramid-builders are three Pharaohs
of the IVth Dynasty, Khufu (or
Cheops), Khaf-Ra (Chephren) and
Men-kau-Ra (Mykerinos), who built
the three huge Pyramids of Gizeh.
Cheops, who reigned for perhaps
50 years, built the Great Pyramid,
451 ft. high—though estimated to
have originally been 30ft. higher
still —755 ft. at the base, and cover-
ing \2\ acres; there is 6,000,000
tons of masonry in it. Chephren,
Cheops’ successor (though some
authorities believe a short reign,
that of Dedefrc, to whom a Pyramid
is attributed, intervened), built the
second Pyramid at Gizeh, the
second-largest Pyramid of all—very
little smaller than that of Cheops.
The first Pyramid built was probably
the Step-Pyramid at Saqqara of
Tcheser (Zoser),of the lllrd Dynasty,
whose reign, says Baikic, “marks the
beginning of regular construction in
stone.” Many Pharaohs from the
lllrd to the Xllth Dynasty built
Pyramids, though none belongs to
any subsequent Dynasty; the later
Pyramids, it is claimed, do not
exhibit the engineering skill and
workmanship that went into the ones
at Gizeh. Of the multitude of
Pyram ids, says Everyman’s
Encyclopedia, “only 16 have been
“Who Was that galoot who said ‘ Good-day ' as
he Went past?”
satisfactorily identified.” (2) Life
after death, and the abode of the
dead, were absorbing subjects to the
ancient Egyptians. It seems that the
Pyramids were attempts by the
Pharaohs to secure for themselves
what they considered to be suitable
homes for the living-dead ; some may
also, perhaps, have been designed to
placate the gods.
* * * •
What Labor Governments were in
office in Australia in (1) early 1931,
(2) after the elections of 1932-33 ?
Besides the Scullin Labor Govern-
ment, which was in office in the
Federal sphere, there were three
State Labor Governments in office
in May, 1931. They were the Lang
Government (N.S.W.), sworn in on
Nov. 4, 1930, the Hogan Govern-
ment in Victoria (Dec. 12, 1929),
and the Hill Government in S.A.
(April 17, 1930). The three non-
Labor Administrations were the
Moore Government in Queensland
(May 21, 1929), the Government of
Sit J. Mitchell in W.A. (April 24,
1930) -and the McPhee Government
in Tasmania (June 15, 1928). By
April, 1933, six of these seven
Governments had lost office. The
Scullin Government was replaced by
the Lyons U.A.P. Administration
(Jan. 6, 1932), the Lang Government
by the Stevens U.A.P. Government
(May 16, 1932), in Victoria the
Argyle (U.A.P.) Administration took
office on May 19, 1932, in Queens-
land the Forgan Smith Labor
Government was sworn in on June
17, 1932, R. L. Butler was U.A.P.
Premier of S.A. from April 18, 1933,
and the W.A. Labor Government of
Philip Collier attained office on
April 26, 1933. The McPhee
Ministry stayed in office till 1934.
Brief Answers
M.T.C. (Vatakoula, Fiji): Write
Press Feature Service, 149 Castle-
reagh-slreet, Sydney M.: Further
to the answer on hydroelectric
schemes (B. 22/5/’57). It is not, of
course, true that ‘‘water costs noth-
ing.” Capital outlay on a hydro-
electric scheme is relatively very
high. Still, once the plant is installed,
water-power is reasonably cheap, and
the life of the installation is claimed
to be generally longer than that of
a thermal-power unit... .G.F.: The
Economic Development of Australia,
by A. G. L. Shaw, will give you the
information... .Captain X : (1) The
Central American republic of
Honduras has several ports open
to big ships. Only one of these
ports is on the Pacific side, Amapala,
on the Gulf of Fonseca, which is
regularly visited by large shipping-
lines. Other Honduras ports are
Tela, La Ceiba, Trujillo (or Puerto
Castilla) and Puerto Cortes. (2) See
Ports of the World 1956 (10th
edition)... .D.E.: Yes, definitely.
In B. 20/7/’49, Australian wheat-
man H. K. Nock was quoted as
stating that “the difference between
the price realised for wheat delivered
to the Australian Wheat Board
between 1939 and 1948-49 and sold
foi consumption within Australia
and the price that would have been
received at export-parity totalled


Commonwealth of Australia
Dept, of Labour and National Service
REGISTRATION FOR
NATIONAL SERVICE
All Male BRITISH SUBJECTS and NEW AUSTRALIANS
OF THE CLASSES DESCRIBED BELOW WHO ARE ORDINARILY
RESIDENT IN AUSTRALIA
MUST REGISTER
Between 10th June, 1957 and 24th June, 1957
unless exempt from liability to do so.
BRITISH SUBJECTS
who have attained or will attain the age of 18 years
between Ist January, 1957 and 30th June, 1957,
inclusive
NEW AUSTRALIANS
(NOT BEING BRITISH SUBJECTS)
AND
NATURALIZED BRITISH SUBJECTS NOT ALREADY REGISTERED
who attained the age of 18 years between Ist January,
1956 and 30th June, 1956 (inclusive), and were in
Australia on 18th May, 1956.
A person who intends to make his home in Australia is regarded as ordinarily
resident in Australia as from ihe time of his arrival. A person who is
absent from Australia during the period within which he is required to
register, must register within 14 days after his return.
EXEMPTIONS FROM REGISTRATION:
The ONLY exemptions from liability to register are:—
(a) Persons on full-time duty with the Permanent Defence Forces,
(b) Diplomatic personnel specified in Section 18 of the National Service
Act,
(c) Aboriginal natives of Australia including half-castes, and persons of
aboriginal extraction living as aborigines.
HOW TO REGISTER:
Registration Forms (Forms N.S.I) are available at District Employment
Offices and Money Order Post Offices. Addresses of the former offices are
in telephone directories. Detailed instructions on how to register are in the
Registration Form and the Sheet (N.S.IA) attached to it.
FAILURE TO REGISTER:
A person required to register who fails to do so is liable to a
minimum penalty of £lO.
some £96 million.” On similar
lines, Callaghan and Millington’s
The Wheat Industry in Australia
says that “the stabilisation-scheme
which operated since 1948, and the
International Wheat Agreement,
cost the Australian wheatgrowers
over £5O million —because open-
market prices greatly exceeded the
home-consumption and I.W.A.
P'ices.” The Bulletin, after
quoting Nock, went on to comment
that the wheatgrower was thus
losing heavily so the city worker
could have a cheap loaf and so that
stock-raisers could have cheap
wheat. (2) See replies to E.A.W.
(Brief Answers, B. 8/5/’57) and
L.B. (Brief Answers, B. 29/5/’57).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
M.A.G.: Well, let’s see your
♦rue stories about the bunyip....
P.C.: You don’t ready improve a
poem by dropping the capital-letters
and inventing odd words such as
“bloot” and “trinkle”... .N.M.S.:
Too slight and sentimental for these
rugged pages... .C.V.: Horrors of
the past, indeed:
. ...G.MacF.: Have you ever seri-
ously considered the advisability, or
inadvisability, of using such words as
“troth”? ... .E.M.0.: Didactic....
T.N.: Not a chance Faraway:
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are pa : d
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.]
A choice story, but the parody on
Paterson doesn’t work 0ut....'
J.H.H.: “A Dark Mystery” must
remain for ever wrapped in
impenetrable nig h t G.M .H.:
Little winds that woo the trees are
not encouraged here... .D.F.C.: A
rocky sonnet.. . .R.T.C.: Rough
riding indeed... .L.S.: The thought
that a Scorfield cartoon can arouse
you to 150 lines of heroic-couplets
on the atom-bomb awakes The
Bulletin to a new and awe-inspiring
sense of its responsibilities. .W.C.E.:
Will print this much from your 2000
lines on
. ...T.J.H.: “He wooed at last the
Fury’s shears.” That’s about where
we nipped off... .C.Y.F.: Read
some modern Australian poetry if
you want to improve.. . .J.R.: It is
unwise to chat to the sun; unless,
perhaps, if you keep your hat on.
The goldfield is more peaceful,
As we ‘‘old hands” allow;
The cannibals are dead and gone.
The place is safer now.
’Twas desperate deeds were common
then:
They killed and ate each “Chow” —
Blacks thought them easier to catch
Than goat or horse or cow.
(Old Quong Tart was a “bonzer” Chink,
And so was Kwong Nam Tai!
The rest were opium addicts,
All filthy, lewd and sly.)
What gold they secretly “sent home”
Remains a secret yet ;
Old-timers never really knew,
Or tactfully forget.
Blacks carried eight-foot grass-tree
spears ;
They would, with cruel craft,
Tip monsi rous gibbers on our lads
As they came up the shaft.
THIS HEAR RADIATION,
There aren’t no atomic bombs! but . . .
the v/o rld fears radiation,
And—'bullocks have died from eating
it? Poor fellow ... me!
Godless Russians—so devoid of under-
standing relation—
Therewith by Christian aspiring nations
could not be!
So thorns base capitalists fabricated
atomic bomb.
A defensive ruse—for Russians do not
comprehend
That without honor achievement is
nil! Standard gives aplomb !
The West concept is not amiss. What-
ever may portend
The aftermath of World War II is,
Russia’s so far behind
That if it did beat the West the world
would backward go
To the concept of five-hundred years
ago.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BRITAIN'S H-BOMB
pRESS-COMMENT on the
successful explosion of
Britain’s first H-bomb:
London “Daily Mail” : “The
argument about whether or not
Britain should explode her
H-bamb has vanished in a
mushroom over the Central
Pacific. This event, one of the
biggest in the history of the
world, occurred only a few
hours after Mr. Macmillan had
told the House of Commons of
his determination that Britain
should be a nuclear Power.
Now she is a nuclear Power.
She not only possesses the
bomb, but she knows that it
works. So do other countries.
“She has regained her inde-
pendence. Up to yesterday she
occupied a position of
inferiority. She was, let us now
admit it, a nuclear satellite of
the United States. In the event
of a war with all modern
weapons she would have had to
go willy-nilly wherever her
more powerful friends and
allies went. Now she has the
means to frame and follow her
own policy—though this, as
always, will be one of the
closest alliance with the United
States.
“After the. explosion of the
British H-bomb the picture
has changed very much for the
better. The possibility of war
has receded even farther
through the mere possession
by this country of the Great
Deterrent.
“The prospect of an improv-
ing international atmosphere
may also be brighter. The
British Government can now,
if they wish, advocate the
banning of further H-bomb
tests in the knowledge that they
speak from strength and not
from weakness.”
The same: “Here is Britain
exploding her first H-bombs,
acquiring the power of
maximum destruction, and the
news causes no more than a
ripple of interest in this country.
It is not that we are callous or
indifferent, but that mankind
has supped so full of horrors
and prodigies that the im-
possible has become natural
and the phenomenal normal.
“We are overwhelmed not
merely by the magnitude of
scientific achievements but by
their fearsome and growing
speed. Their pace, great though
it is, does not remain constant.
It is all the time accelerating.
Only 12 years ago the atom-
bomb burst on the world with
a shock of terror. It is now
seen to be a poor little orthodox
weapon capable of killing only
80,000 people! Today the
H-bomb can kill millions.”
* * *
London “Daily Express” :
“Without this supreme weapon
no nation can aspire to the
control of its own destiny.
Possession of the H-bomb is
essential to equality and inde-
pendence in world councils. If
the British test has triumphed
the public has the right to
rejoice. For this weapon is our
defence, our security, our staff
and our rod.”
* # *
“Manchester Guardian”:
“While it must be confessed
that the Government’s defence-
policy does not make sense
unless megaton bombs are
stored in Western armories, the
most tangible gain that will
result from this explosion is
that the United States may now
—London “Daily Express ”
YET TO COME?
be brought to understand that
American policy on the
exchange of atomic secrets has
no rational foundation.
“It is on this point that pride
may lead the Prime Minister
astray. British bombs are best,
he may be tempted to say. It
is important that he should
understand that Britain cannot
support the economic conse-
quences of a full-blooded pro-
gramme for the development of
hydrogen weapons. Now the
goal seems to be the develop-
ment of a bomb which is
comparatively ‘clean,* and the
of which can be. tailored
almost exactly to match its
chosen target. It will be an
expensive goal to attain. It will
be folly if Britain and America
once more throw money down
the same drain.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“Once the tests are complete it
is here indeed that the next
moves must be made. The
Russians signalise the comple-
tion of every series of nuclear
tests carried out by themselves
with a fusillade of letters
demanding complete abolition.
No safeguards are ever in-
cluded. Britain, on the other
hand, has already laid pro-
posals for a three-stage pro-
gramme of registration, limita-
tion and abolition, to be backed
by a technical study of the
essential requirements of super-
vision. Nobody supports H-
bomb tests, except as the lesser
of two evils. The proper use
of our new strength is to press
these proposals for all we are
worth.”
* * *
London “Economist” ; “If
the statements made by
Ministers since the first explo-
sion in the Christmas ' Island
area give an accurate picture of
what happened there, their
arguments for proceeding with
the British tests have been
strengthened. The hydrogen-
bomb, presumably a two-stage
fission-fusion device, appears
to have been a pretty ‘clean’
one (the remark that it was ‘as
big as a bathroom’ seems
almost too apposite).
“There have admittedly been
reports of radioactive rain
falling in parts of Japan this
week, but its origins seem un-
certain. The political fall-out
has also been notably limited.
In India, Ceylon, Japan and
elsewhere there have been
fresh appeals and expressions
of anxiety, but they have mostly
been couched in sober terms,
and on the whole the political
atmosphere, like the physical
one, seems no more highly
charged than it already was
before the Penney bomb
dropped.
“More details, and more
tests, have to be awaited. It
is fervently to be hoped that
the elaborate precautions taken
were completely effective, and
that the rest of the British series
of tests will maintain the ‘clean’
record. If so, Mr. Macmillan’s
claim that these tests will not
significantly increase general
radiation hazards may carry
conviction. There will also be
added justification for the
Government’s sceptical attitude
to the Russian offer to suspend
tests without permitting any
supervision of the suspension.
(It would be interesting to
know if Soviet scientists are in
fact capable of detecting a
‘clean’ and relatively small mid-
Pacific explosion at long range.)
“And the technical prowess
of the British scientists who
seem to have advanced not
merely into the megaton range,
but right past the stage of
massive and unpredictable fall-
out with which the Russians
are apparently still struggling,
must evoke admiration. That
admiration should neither be
confused with, nor contribute
to, the dangerous illusion that
Christmas Island can restore to
Britain the kind of ill-defined
‘greatness’ that some people
hanker for. It is the defence
of human freedom that is in
question— not a hot fomenta-
tion to comfort a bruised
national psyche.”
* * *
London “News Chronicle ” .*
“The [British] public is still
left groping for more exact
and conclusive information on
the effect of nuclear tests. There
are profound and natural
divisions On this issue. By a
narrow majority the country
now approves of Britain’s
decision to explode the bomb.
“But the strangest and
saddest fact revealed by the
latest Gallup Poll is this: half


ENTHUSIASTIC FARMERS EVERYY/HERE ARE SAYEN3
mm
m
m
.
Mr. Nat Orr, Chairman of the Nelungaloo District Rural
Co-Operative Society Limited, Parkes, says: ‘7 have always
used Ampol Power Kerosine and oils on my property because
I am convinced you cannot buy better. The service , too , hast
been first class during the many years Tve been a user.”
Use the best
Australia's own
%
1
Q,
a i
1
s
V
POWER KEROSINE
A
Pi us Ampol Distillate © Lighting Kerosina
O Petrol and a full range of farm lubricants*
AFMI.S*
"195 7 AMPOL TRIAL STARTS SYDNEY. JULY 7th"


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
m
jACKbOTNj
OSUIJJVAV ,
t
V* *l*BS M'
Jackson & O'Sullivcn
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
. COUNSELLORS : I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•‘jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
the country simply does not
worry at all over these nuclear
developments—whether it be
H-bombs, rockets or guided-
missiles. While science piles up
its megatons, while mankind
gambles with its future on a
scale unheard of, 51 per cent,
of the British people couldn’t
care less.”
Disarmament
Commenting on the diffi-
culties confronting the sub-
committee of the U.N. Dis-
armament Commission, Lon-
don “Time and Tide” sees it
as “quite clear” that, “as long
as ‘the deterrent’ continues in
being, the Western States can
agree to considerable reductions
in conventional weapons and
the manpower for using them ;
indeed they have already re-
duced them drastically on their
own initiative —too drastically
as some people think.
“But when it comes to the
present bone of contention—
the abolition of nuclear
weapons and international con-
trol—-there is no agreement of
any kind, except vaguely ‘in
principle.’ The dilemma of
the West is plain, for its whole
strategy, both military and
economic, is based on ‘the de-
terrent.’ A point has been
reached at which the nuclear
situation is in balance ; that is,
a point at which no man of
commonsense, whatever side
he represents, dare use ‘the
deterrent’ for fear of retalia-
tion. This balance, however,
does not necessarily imply that
an armament-race is out of the
question. The two sides may
have all the bombs needed for
world-wide destruction, but
the military mind is unlikely
to admit that there are, or are
likely to be, enough, let alone
too many. The stockpiling
will doubtless go on.
“Neither in stockpiling nor
in the design of new weapons
has any clear superiority yet
been won ; that is, the point
has not been reached at which
one side feels confident that,
whatever the dangers of retali-
ation, its own contribution to
destruction is sufficiently
superior for ‘aggression’ to be
worth the risk.
“It may be said that the
mere ending of test-explosions
would be irrelevant as far as
this race is concerned; it
would make little difference,
for stockpiling would continue
and if the newest bomb repre-
sents 16-million tons of TNT
the practical limit of bigness
may have been reached. The
relative position of the great
Powers would remain just as it
was.
“The British proposal con-
centrated on ending tests,
whereas the Russians advo-
cated the abolition of the
weapon itself and the destruc-
tion of all stocks, though not
of the means of delivery, which
are adaptable for ‘conven-
tional’ explosives. To carry out
the Russian proposal could
—New York “Herald Tribune"
“GUESS WERE KINDA LUCKY AT THAT
only mean the re-establishment
of Communist military
superiority, even if a very con-
siderable reduction of conven-
tional armaments were to be
enforced at the same time. It
would rob Western strategy of
its bases and leave Western
defence in a position of the
utmost peril.
“That Russia will obtain an
actual agreement for abolition
is unlikely. The way of Western
non-acceptance, however, is
probably through the prior
requirement of an adequate
system of control. To be
effective, such a system would
mean much more than the
control posts at strategic points
envisaged in the tentative
American proposals. It would
require a radical control of all
installations connected with the
production and application of
atomic energy.
“The American proposals
cover only a limited area and
involve little more than military
personnel; real world-wide
atomic control would mean the
employment of numerous
scientists. To remove so many
from atomic research would
probably hamper that develop-
ment on which the future pro-
gress of humanity is supposed
to depend.
“This is hardly the moment,
then, for optimistic prophecies
about what the [U.N.] sub-
committee will do when it re-
assembles. Anything accom-
plished is likely to have only
token value. Nothing more can
be expected until the Western
dilemma is resolved. A satis-
factory method of achieving
this has so far been discovered
only by Communists and by
extreme pacifists.”
French Government
London “Daily Telegraph”
post-mortem on the fall of M.
Mollet’s Government:
“French Governments
always seem to fall when they
are needed most. Coalitions of
incompatible components last
only so long as no crucial
decisions have to be taken. But
when the time for decision
arrives they break up.
“The time for decision was
unusually slow in arriving for
M. Mollet. Indeed, his Gov-
ernment lasted 16 months, a
Fourth Republic record. In
large part, however, his length
of tenure was made possible
by overseas involvements in
Suez and Algeria, which,
although their cost vastly
contributed to his present diffi-
culties, also served to deflect
French attention from the
economic crisis at home.
“It was, therefore, more than
a coincidence that on the day
that the Security Council
decided to postpone, at least
for the time being, any
immediate counter - measures
against Nasser, M. Mollet’s
Government should fall. So
long as the Suez crisis was on
the boil, the ensuing steam
clouded over the need for
immediate action at home.
Now, however, the grim picture
emerges, and painful decisions
can no longer be postponed.
“The truth is that France is
faced with financial disaster.
For the past six months M.
Mollet has been trying to
please the Right by maintain-
ing a full-scale war in Algeria,
which is costing France some-
thing like £5OO million a year ;


Paiili hi ific
Fm^utv
When the Duke of Edinburgh was in Australia
for the Olympic Games he said at a State luncheon
in Sydney: “The strength of our democratic system
lies in our method of local government.”
I have recalled that remark many times. It
recurs to me in my travels when I come upon a
town nestling cosily in the countryside: its shopping
centre, the rows of houses, the churches, the schools,
the hospital, and often the memorial erected to a
heroism that made the retention of all this possible.
I tell myself that in this place, as in many like
it, a small council of elected people is serving the
community cause.
Throughout Australia there are something like
930 local government areas, some of them
embracing capital cities, others spread across vast,
thinly-settled country shires.
In addition to these hundreds of councils there
are bodies set up to control specific services. I
include them in this appreciation of people to
whose public spirit Australia owes much.
The Duke of Edinburgh defined well the role
of local government when he described it as “the
ordering of the important things which go to make
up the standard of living, the things which affect
every citizen individually every day.”
That is exactly what it is. Each community
has its problems, its prides, its interests and
ambitions. Within every area are people to whom
the quality of their Local Authority is reflected in
the living satisfactions —in the home, in their street,
in public movements, and so on.
Accepting this —and sometimes we are inclined
to take such service for granted—l feel that
Australia should be encouraging its best and most
vigorous minds to offer for local leadership.
Let us not under-rate it. Our Federal and
State systems are there in pyramid; but firmly at
the base of them is the most intimate form of
democracy we enjoy—the Local Government that
touches us closely in our daily lives.
at the same time he has sought
both to satisfy the Left by
pressing on with increased
expenditure on social services
and to placate the businessmen
by doing little to stem the
roaring industrial boom which
has meant overfull employ-
ment, excessive capital invest-
ment and mounting demand
for consumer goods. This in
turn has led to imports vastly
exceeding exports and to a
severe balance -of - payments
crisis, with a terrifying run on
France’s reserves of foreign
currency.
“To add to the confusion,
France has also committed
herself to the European Com-
mon Market, the whole idea of
which is the gradual reduction
of import-quotas and tariffs.
M. Mollet, in short, by attempt-
ing to meet the minimal
demands of all groups, as all
coalition Prime Ministers must
inevitably do, has run up a bill
which the French economy just
cannot meet.”
Israel and Suez
London “New Statesman” on
the “real crisis of Suez”:
“This week, next week, some-
time soon, an Israeli ship—or a
foreign ship under charter to
Israel and bound for Tel Aviv
or Haifa—will drop its hook
in the roads outside Port Suez.
Its master will offer the canal
authorities payment of the
proper dues, in an acceptably
hard currency, and will claim
the right of uninterrupted
passage to Port Said and the
Mediterranean.
“What happens then is any-
body’s guess—the everlasting
question to which all the
arguments of the last ten
months have led with ‘lnsidious
intent.’ For the British and
French, though understandably
angered by the sudden nation-
alisation of the Canal Com-
pany, never had much of a case
against Nasser ; and what little
they had was destroyed by the
overweening folly of Sir
Anthony Eden and M. Mollet.
“But the Israelis have not
only an almost unanswerable
case ; they have an intolerable
grievance. They may reason
with cogency that now, when
Nasser has been forced by
world opinion to reaffirm the
doctrine of free passage, is the
moment when they must force
their problem upon the con-
science and responsibility of the
Powers, if they are ever to
secure their rights.
“We are, in fact,” the “New
Statesman” adds, “approaching
the real crisis of Suez. The
story which ended with the
British Government’s surrender
to Nasser was the story of a
false ’issue, an Anglo-French
plot which allowed of only
one denouement. Now we are
back where we have been since
1951, with Nasser proclaiming
his defiance of the Security
G®uncil’s rulings and Israel
denied a passage from the Red
Sea to the Mediterranean.
“Inevitably Israelis must feel
that they cannot much longer
evade the issue without allowing
their case to go by default. The
tough young Israeli generals
have already demonstrated the
contempt in which they hold
Nasser’s raggle-taggle army—
for all its Russian tanks and
aircraft; and, if an Israeli test-
ship is arrested or fired on,
the pressure upon Ben-Gurion
to authorise once more a use
of force will be very, very
great.
“We earnestly hope the
Israelis will realise that, uncon-
scionably wronged though they
are, the redress of their griev-
ance does not lie in force. It
seemed a fine idea to M. Mollet
and his cronies in the Elvsees
Palace last summer to see
whether Israel could be used
as the pretext for involving the
Atlantic Powers in hostilities
with Nasser and so strength ail-
ing France in her colonial war
against the Arabs. But the
result turned the whole world
against Israel and ended in
failure.
“Israel would be wise to turn
a deaf ear to provocative
whispers from Paris. There is
no reason to think that French
intrigues have collapsed with
the Mollet Government; yet a
reversion to force today could
only increase the risks of last
autumn and would be even
more certainly doomed to
failure.”
Various Voices
Mr. Stanton Griffiths
(former U.S. Ambassador to
Egypt): “The Middle East is
a horrid and gigantic salad of
the Arab-Jewish hatreds of
thousands of years, saturated
with Russian dressing and
laced with crude oil.”
* * *
President Eisenhower: “To
millions of people close to the
Soviet and Chinese Communist
borders political freedom is
still new. To many it must
still prove its worth. To
survive it must show the way
to another and equally essential
freedom —freedom from the
poverty and hopelessness in
which these peoples have lived
for centuries.”


THE OTHER FELLOW' MIND
Killing the Goose
It’s about time taxing
authorities here, as well as
those in England, realised that
they are killing the goose. As
outlined in “Taxation o:
Salaries” (B. 8/5/’57), highly
trained professional anc
businessmen find, ?on reaching
the peak of their earning
capacity, that there is little
reward for the extra work and
worry that go with top posi-
tions.
Careers frequently follow
this pattern: a son is educated
through high school and uni-
versity with further training
overseas. On return he settles
down to work, marries and
rears a couple of children. For
the next 20 years or so he
becomes increasingly valuable
to the community as his early
training is augmented by prac-
tical experience. Then, towards
the age of 50, he finds that his
taxation assessment has in-
creased because the family is
no longer dependent on him.
If his parents have passed on
and left a legacy which,
combined with his savings,
yields an annual income of,
say, £l2OO, and his income from
personal exertion is £2400, the
position is this:
Tax on £3600 .. £lOll
„ „ £l2OO .. £l5O
On these figures he pays
£B6l because he works. In
other words, he works four
months of the year for the
Commissioner of Taxation.
And there surely never was a
tougher boss —one who grants
no holidays, tolerates no back-
answers and who only rewards
better efforts with more lash.
As there is nothing mare
depressing than a feeling of
being a “bunny” the next step
is either retirement to a simple
life on a net annual income
of £lO5O or reduction of per-
sonal exertion to provide a
modest income for personal
expenses.
The result is that the com-
munity, by losing the services
of a highly trained man at the
peak of his career, fails to
collect the full dividend from
its investment in his early
education. The only redeem-
ing feature is that, in many
cases, the commissioner does
the victim a good turn by
encouraging him to enjoy an
easier life rewarded by good
health, which, so far, is not
taxable. —No Oscar (N.S.W.)
Think of a Number
As we were not at Aitape
I cannot join in the argument
that has ebbed and flowed in
these pages, but here’s a loud
"I'm SO glad, Ronnie. Daddy said you Were only
chasing my money.”
horselaugh for the statement
that the “squeezing tactics”
forced the Japs so close
together that it was estimated
that 600 were killed by a single
6in.-shell.
“Estimated enemy casualties”
was a standing joke throughout
the war, from the astronomical
calculations on the Russian
front to our own modest mis-
statements in the jungles, where
it was impossible to judge
enemy losses. And we did not
try very hard, either.
It was at the end of the
classic Gorari trap, about a
day - and - a - half’s march out
from Kokoda. Several bat-
talions had outflanked and
wiped out a force of Japs. One
unit had had the task of con-
tacting and holding a flanking
position and, apart from the
first clash, had little hand-to-
hand fighting.
It took a Couple of days to
clean up the village, and the
morning after it was all over
the intelligence officer called to
theG.O.: “Message from Div.,
sir. Wants to know how many
we accounted for.” The C.O.
was busy and promptly con-
signed Div. to its rightful place,
“No good, sir,” said the i.o.
“I think so, too, but it’s an
order. We must give an
estimate.”
The C.O. was baffled. Turn-
ing to his adjutant he snapped,
“Have you any idea, Gordon?”
“No, sir,” was the reply,
“but [with a grin] I can find
out.” He called to a passing
sergeant: “Sergeant, think of
a number between one and
three hundred. Come on, man,
we’re waiting,” as the perplexed
n.c.o. hesitated. Aside to the
i. 0., “Double whatever he says
and there you are.”
The bewildered three-striper
finally spluttered, “One hundred
and fifty.”
So to this very day you will
find somewhere deep in the
war-records that the Second /,
Umpteenth Battalion accounted
for 300 Japs at Gorari. And
I’ll swear that’s how the figure
was arrived at. —B. J. L. (Q.).
Long-service Leave
“C.8.M.” and “Noah” not-
withstanding (B. 8/ 5 / ’57), I
stick to my assertion that long-
service leave, as awarded under
the Victorian Act, has little to
commend it, because it rewards
the deserving and the undeserv-
ing indiscriminately.
Merit does not come into
account where long-service
leave is awarded, the only quali-
fication being duration of ser-
vice with the one employer.
The employee whose service
has been barely mediocre —who
has stayed with the one firm
through sheer apathy rather
than any high sense of loyalty j
—receives the same benefit at
» the end of 20 years as the faith-
ful and highly efficient worker.
In fact, under the Victorian
legislation, an employee who
has had merely 10 years with
one boss can claim “long-
service” leave if he resigns his
job through ill-health or press-
ing domestic necessity, or is
dismissed (except for wilful
misconduct); but if he leaves
to better himself before his
full 20 years are up he can’t
claim a farthing.— Doymst
(Vic.).
Comics
“W all ac e Waxborer’s”
reference to madrigals and
rock-’n’-roll (B. 1/5/’57)
doesn’t convince me that comics
are so far removed from the
14th-century ballad.
In fact there are certain
features that are patently
common to both—the simple
plots, for example, which tell
of unrequited love or love
betrayed, of the supernatural or
the use of magic, or which
involve some shocking crime,
portrayed in simple but spec-
tacular description in the
ballads and in crude but vivid
colors in the comics.
The reactions to the ballads
of the children . mentioned
(B. 3/4/’57) —disdain for the
love passages, disgust at the
gruesome crimes and distaste
for the supernatural were
not what critics of comics might
have expected.
Their response, or lack of it,
plus Arthur Falk’s inquiry
(B. 24/4/’57) as to whether
I had “encountered some
of the more vicious and
senseless specimens,” led to
a rough check on what the
kids were reading in the comic
line. “Dagwood” proved to be
most popular, followed by


UO
The CLOTHES
that put you on top
of the world
That’s exactly what a Stamina Suit does for you. It
puts you right up there on that well-dressed level where
a man feels at his best.
Only a finely tailored suit will do that for you —a
Stamina Suit. The Stamina organisation takes infinite
pains to ensure that every garment has that “ hand
tailored ” look for which the brand has become so
famous.
What’s the secret? What are the ingredients, the formula?
Top quality cloth that’s where it begins Crusader
pure wool cloth, of course, plus the pure craftsmanship
of long-experienced tailors. It adds up to Stamina.
ciras
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
“Davy Crockett,” “The
Phantom,” “Chuckl'er’s
Weekly” and “Kit Carson.”
A written questionnaire given
to 50 children in two equal
groups, one primary, the other
post-primary, showed that only
50 per cent, bought comics
each week (although 72 per
cent, borrowed or exchanged
them). About 25 per cent,
didn’t read comics at all ; the
rest only occasionally.
Some of the answers to the
question, “Do you think comics
are worth while?” were interest-
ing. Apart from such answers
as “You can lay on the lawn
and read as the time goes by,”
a number of others showed
that some of the older children
had given the matter some
thought.
“Not unless they have some-
thing different from the
ordinary gunmen and magic in
them,” was one. Another
wrote, “No, because the hero
always wins—not true to life,”
while a third said, “Some are
bad and keep your mind off
your work.”
These showed that the older
kids, at least, were more critical
than some people think they
are, or had absorbed the right
public attitude from some other
source. It also showed that
some, at least, were consistent
in their reactions to the crudities
of both the ballads and the
comics.
If this critical attitude could
be encouraged by parents and
teachers, there would be no
Reed for the absolute ban
which “W.W.” seems to
advocate. In the long run that
would only lead to surreptitious
reading of the forbidden, which
would be more harmful than
open reading. —C.R.M. H.
(W.A.).
U S S. Ammen
Mention of U.S.S. Ammen
as one of the escorting
destroyers during Coral Sea
Week warmed my heart. I
presume she is identical with
the destroyer (and sister-ship)
placed with the Australian
squadron during our attach-
ment to the U.S. Seventh Fleet,
as Task Force 74, in World
War 11.
While with us the two
destroyers were, loosely speak-
ing, under R.A.N. command.
For instance, when our supply-
ship arrived the most import-
ant supply—in the lower-deck
opinion anyway —was the beer-
issue. Two bottles daily at
ninepence each for a couple of
weeks made the war worth
fighting. The U.S.N. custom
is that no grog is drunk aboard,


so other Yankee ships had to
postpone the pleasure till they
had a chance to visit an island.
But Ammen and co. drank on
board like any self-respecting
Aussie. The fact that they had
bottled beer against the Yankee
canned issue made them
happier still. It got to where
they boasted of being
H.M.A.S. rather than U.S.S.
Another proud memory.
During battle (capture of the
Philippines, I think) Ammen
lost both funnels. She con-
tinued darting about with
smoke pouring from the ragged
remnants of her stacks, belting
a constant stream of shells
into the enemy.
After the battle Ammen and
co. were ordered Stateside for
refit and rest. They objected,
wanting to do emergency
repairs at the temporary base
on Tulagi, then rejoin the
Aussie squadron. But the U.S.
Navy Department was
adamant, and the day Ammen
and co. left us crews of four
Aussie ships cleared lower-
deck to bid silent farewell.
There were no cheers, yells or
waving; just battle-tired men
lining the rails to watch them
go.— Dolphin (N.S.W.),
The Australian Worker
“Kayell” (B. 10/4/’57) gives
the much-maligned Australian
worker a well-deserved pat on
the back. Our fellows are good
“ Gorblimey!"
by any standard. They have
aptitude, are adaptable, and
can improvise and use inventive
skill with the best of them.
You won’t drive them an
inch, though, and they’ll chal-
lenge any attempt to cover in-
competence with bluff. They
will, however, slacken to the
tempo set by a weak adminis-
tration. On the other hand,
they’ll go through hell-and-
high-water under able leader-
ship, a quality they’re quick to
recognise.
One new source of friction
and subsequent worker aepre-
ciation is the industrial practice,
now developing into a cult, of
calling -in management - con -
sultants. The directors fail to
see that this fashionable but
disrupting assistance-seeking is
an admission of managerial in-
capacity.
Nevertheless at £3 to £8 per
hour the advisory business is
lucrative and will continue to
be so until management appre-
ciates that the highways of
knowledge used by the con-
sultants are available to all.
Persistence and determination
are the keywords.
The world’s best production-
figures in proportion to
manpower were held by Aus-
tralia in the last war, and it
was not the worker who found
and exploited the weaknesses
of the cost -plus system.— Old
Opencut (S.A.).
Housing
1 did not advocate forcing
people to share their homes
(B. 15/5/’57); I simply pointed
out —citing examples from
personal knowledge—that there
were thousands of under-
occupied houses in Sydney
suburbs and that many of the
owners would voluntarily share
them or let them if they could
readily evict unsatisfactory
tenants or repossess the house
when needed.
I endorse entirely
“P.O.M.C.’s” contention that
it would be a gross infringe-
ment of individual liberty to
compel anyone to share his or
her house with others. — Terry
the Tory (N.S.W.).
Wattle
According to Alan Fraser,
M.H.R. for Eden-Monaro,
there is a good deal of bitter-
ness over the duty - free
admission of South African
wattle-bark, which is under-
selling Australian bark to such
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 438
Across
I—When1 —When the receiver certainly isn’t excelling middle-aged
romance. (5-4)
6 —Parrots eat this throb. (5)
9—Crowbar, for instance, is back to spree. (5)
10— Alienated danger set badly. (9)
11— This makes cowardly paving run up on a quarantined
vessel. (6, 4)
12—Emply. (3)
15 — Fix fair publicity first. (6)
16 — The old man to tie up a friend
with a successful service court. (6)
18— Canadian heads off King Arthur’s
nine useless cat killers. (6)
19 — Money about the middle. (6)
21— After a kiss, he is carelessly taken
in hand by a feller? (3)
22 Gestures of friendship pass plenty
snakes. (10)
26 — Composer in favor of the knock-
out cry of the defiant five. (9)
27 — I have a garment on a raccoon-
like animal. (5)
28 — Palatable thanks written by pen.
(5)
29 Flower land of “bombs.” (9)
Down
1 — The come-hither attempts of a
sufferer from 1-aoross, wherein he
can meet the girl of his dreams.
(5, 5)
2 Washer-up in a Baltic capital. (5)
3 Fever knave who isn’t game. (6, 4)
4 Starve too much bowling like
Tyson’s bowling. (8)
5 A disorderly parent snare. (6)
6 Sport drama. (4)
7 Make the laws for a branch is
behind schedule. (9)
8— Send into the finishes. (4)
13 — A Neapolitan song spoils a tunic,
alas! (10)
14 — It makes one blue nose spider go
into hiding. (10)
15—Girl with a cricket team on the
South additions. (9)
17—Mount a port on the English
Channel stoop. (4, 4)
20—A fellow and I associated with a
current madman". (6)
.
23—Did I propel myself through the
water fabric? (5)
24—Tips up a bit of a barbecue. (4)
25—£25 available from the New York
post-office first. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 437


fhg
ow
i
ft AUSTRALIA'S FIRST
WOOLLEN MILLS NOW
IN THEIR CENTENARY YEAH
WOOLLEN MILLS LIMITED
£250,000
CENTENARY DEBENTURE ISSUE!
APPLICATIONS ARE INVITED FOR
FIRST MORTGAGE
Registered DEBENTURES
SECURED BY ASSETS IN EXCESS OF £500,000
9%
INTEREST PAYABLE QUARTERLY, FREE OF EXCHANGE
EVERY £lOO INVESTED WILL EARN YOU £45!
This is a safe, unique opportunity to invest in a
VITAL NATIONAL INDUSTRY
PLEDGED TO THE SUPPORT AND DOLLAR-EARNING
DEVELOPMENT OF OUR GREATEST HERITAGE . . . WOOL!
A vigorous expansion and increased dollar-earning
export plan is being introduced to help meet the
world-wide demand for Australian pure wool fabrics,
blankets, rugs and textiles.
LIST OF SECURITIES INCLUDE:
Freehold Land and Buildings; Properties; Real Estate:
Private Dwellings, etc., valued by W. J. Bradshaw and
Company, and Machinery and Plant, etc., valued by S. Q.
Canavan & Sons.
The Company reserves the right to return all
deposits if subscriptions do not exceed £lOO.OOO.
BANKERS:
A.N.Z. Bauk, Hunter St.,
Sydney.
AGENTS FOR THE ISSUE:
H. & S. Credits Pty. Ltd., 163
Clarence St., Sydney. BX 1003,
BX 1170.
OFFICES FOR LODGMENT:
H. & S. Credits Pty. Ltd., 103
Clarence StT., Sydney. BX 1603,
BX 1170.
H. & S. Credits (Newcastle)
Ltd., H. & S. House. Hunter
St., Newcastle. B 4202.
Incorporated Finance & In-
vestments Pty., Ltd., 468
Hunter St., Newcastle. 83075.
Lithgow Woollen Mills Ltd.,
Lithgow. Phone: 2347.
AUDITORS:
Griffiths, Grill. Love & Co.,
Chartered Accountants
(Aust.), 316 Pitt St., Sydney.
MA 9414.
SOLICITORS:
Roy F. Turner, Iv. H. Wilson
& Co.. National Mutual Build-
ing. 350 George St., Sydney.
BL 2766, BL 3292.
TRUSTEE FOR DEBEN-
TURE HOLDERS:
R. J. Griffiths. Esq., ' F.C.A.
(Aust.), of Griffiths. Grill,
Love & Co., Chartered
Accountants (Aust.). MA9414.
PHONE 8X1733. 8X1603. BXII7O FOR FURTHER INFORMATION
SEND THIS COUPON FOR PROSPECTUS
NAME -
AnngF<;<;
Please send me a copy of the Lithgow Woollen Mills Ltd.
prospectus which, I understand, places me under ee
obligation.
an extent that local producers
are feeling the pinch.
Fraser has told only part of
the story. Many years ago
astute South Africans decided
to plan a wattle-bark industry
on a large commercial scale
with seeds bought from Aus-
tralia. As is often the case
with exotics, the wattle grew
quicker and better in South
Africa than in its native Aus-
tralia —it was away from
parasites which once retarded
its growth and deformed its
branches.
The South Africans planted
grove after grove and now
harvest the bark with cheap
native labor. For years Aus-
tralian tanners have relied on
the imported article for much
of the 10,000 tons of bark they
need each year. They also find
the South African bark is a
better all-round product than
the Australian, which is
harvested from wild trees.
If Australia is getting rough
treatment on this deal, surely
California must find it galling
to see Australia cutting millions
of super-feet of building-timber
from the forests of radiata-
pine growing in the Australian
Capital Territory. In its native
California the radiata-pine is
nothing more than an orna-
ment, and its timber is no use
—another case of the effect of
environment and parasites.
The Australian eucalypt, in
its hundreds of varieties, is
flowering in scores of countries.
Some types growing in Cali-
fornia are better than we can
produce, and in parched, arid
areas of some Middle East
countries scrub- and mulga-
type gums are flourishing and
playing a big part in reclaim-
ing eroded land for cultiva-
tion. In Israel swamp-gums
have wiped out the mosquito
menace and dried-up marshy
colonies. —G. K. (A.C.T.).
Religion and Politics
If the Santamaria movement
(B. 24/4/’57) has its roots in
religion—any religion—people
may be justified in regarding
it with suspicion.
History has shown that
religionists in the political
saddle have as uncomfortable a
tendency to ride roughshod
over opponents as do non-
religionists. There is small
comfort to be obtained from
quoted figures showing that one
religion has a lesser number of
voters than another, and cannot
therefore constitute a danger.
Communists always do
poorly on polling-days, but,
minority as they are, we are all
familiar with their white-anting
tactics.
I do not know the religious
beliefs of the member for our
district, nor do I wish to. The
day that he steps on to the
political platform banging any
sectarian drum is the day that
I will abandon my vote for
him.
Nor am I alone in this. The
world over, there are count-
less thousands of people who
have no wish to be dominated
by “.’isms” of any type —Pro-
testant, Catholic, or Commo. —«
Reveille (Q.).
Trams
In all this talk for and against
trams in Australian cities, it
should be noted that transport
experts in various parts of the
world still regard the tram
as the most efficient and
economical vehicle for moving
large numbers of people
quickly.
In Sydney there are no better
examples than the many
thousands of people shifted by
tram from Randwick Race-
course, the Showground and
Cricket Ground within 40 or
50 minutes, with the dubious
support of buses dubious
because in sudden mass-move-
ments of crowds, flowing
mainly in opposite directions,
buses, cross-routed, tend to
obstruct trams. There are, in'
fact, some Sydney transport
authorities who hold that, at
Easter, for instance, when
Randwick race-crowds and
those from the Showground
clash around 5 p.m., trams
used exclusively would handle
this temporary rush with less
confusion and even greater
dispatch.
Sydney authorities, in face
of strong local opposition, have
high-handedly terminated
several paying tram-services
(the Ashfield-Burwood-Mort-
lake-Cabarita run among them)
in favor of buses. They have
torn-up the lines to set down
expensive concrete roads,
thereby making any deserved
resumption of the tram-services
impossible.
Consequently, around Sydney
at any rate, it is already too
late to bewail the replacement
of trams with buses in several
areas where trams had been
plying profitably and well for
years. In future, local public
opinion should be heard and
added to the official delibera-
tions when existing tram-
services come under, review.—-
P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).


i
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in TYi-Cal-Oa, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
I
OS
I*'
OV>*
|OH»
biMU**
M
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
45% TRLCALCIC PHOSfMAtI
4*7 Tirflnhn upp/totf—
Writ* »• DAVIS CKATME: 6AO Du KHI
SYDNEY • «.».0 to. 405*. MELBOURNE • 6>4X
•« >I2F. ADELAIDE • ftAO to. ISK. tRISIAN*
• ft AO to. SM. PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK 6l STATION AGENTS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Extension Work in the New England
npHERE is usually A a time-lag
between the acceptance of
ideas on a scientific level and
their general acceptance, which
varies considerably in different
communities. The function of
extension-work in agriculture
is to shorten the gap. Some-
times the time-lag is consider-
able. In the southern New
England (N.S.W.), for instance,
so far as soil-conservation is
concerned, the extension-
worker often comes up against
an attitude of mind which
reminds one of the reception
given to Bennet’s officers in
such States as Kentucky, in the
very early days of soil-conserva-
tion in America: “You can’t
teach me anything about farm-
ing, young fellow —I’ve gone
through three farms and well
nigh used up this one.”
The above remark has often
been quoted ; and, no doubt,
will be for a long time yet,
until the type of mind it
illustrates is no longer a factor
to be reckoned with in agri-
culture. In Australia it is not„
of course, peculiar to the
According to authori-
ties the continued
enforcement of the
sheep-dipping regula-
tions has resulted in
a marked reduction in
the number of ver-
minous sheep offered
for sale. Similarly,
according to many
of the leading
graziers throughout
the world the use of
Elastrator Rubber
Rings for marking
and tailing lambs has
resulted in a marked
reduction in lamh
losses. As it is a
bloodless method the
Elastrator system also
protects against fly-
strike and many other
diseases caused by
germ-infection.
southern New England: but
this writer happens to know
something of conditions there
at first-hand,
Many of the landholders
have a progressive and profit-
able approach to the use of
their land (profitable in the
sense that their methods tend
to preserve and multiply
natural resources), and there
are many properties upon
which some particular phase
of conservation-farming, some
spectacular modern device or
system, some highly intelligent
and practical method of land-
use, is demonstrated most
graphically: aerial-sowing and
-topdressing on the Nlvison
property, Mirani, near Uralla,
for instance; Noel Barrett’s
damming and fish-culture pro-
ject on Maida Vale, Ebor ; tree-
planting for beautification and
utility in the open paddocks of
Urandangie, Guyra —to men-
tion a few that come to mind.
A larger proportion of land-
holders have improved their
management of pastures. The
improvement has been largely
due to findings such as the
sulphur-requirements of New
England soils as supplied
from superphosphates or
gypsum, to practical findings
in the field like the use and
persistence of subterranean-
clover, and to quicker, safer
and more efficient methods of
clearing and seedbed-prepara-
tion.
Lastly comes the still larger
group who go on mining
their arable land, unneces-
sarily killing their timber,
ignoring the encroachment of
gullies, farming rabbits. These
landholders run large flocks of
sheep on depleted natural
pasture in the summer and
hand-feed in winter on land
that, in normal seasons, could
carry a heavy stocking-rate all
the year round if improved-
pastures* were grown.
Beautiful agricultural land
has been ploughed up and
down the hill, and right up to
the edges of the gullies.
It isn’t unusual to see new,
expensive dams constructed in
the bed of an eroding drainage-
line, with no provision made
for a spillway, or with an un-
treated gully-head within a few
yards of the wall.
A striking feature of the
reception given to a visiting
extension-officer is the suspi-
cious and cautious attitude of
the landholder. Frequently
the question is asked: “What
are the others doing?” Or,
“Why do they”—the mysterious
“they”—“worry about a few
gullies?”
On an 8000-acre property
recently visited the only “im-
provements,” apart from the
homestead and a few ram-
shackle sheds, were the fences
and the gaunt skeletons of
millions of dead trees. The
owner had risen to a new-
found wealth on the high wool-
prices of post-war. years, but
apparently felt he owed none
of it to his land.
The “inspection” consisted
of an hour of one-sided con-
versation, during which the
owner was induced to walk
200yds. from the house to a
large dam, which was being
threatened by a 10ft. gully-
head only 50yds. downstream.
Finally he rubbed his chin and
said: “Well —this land is only
worth five-pounds an acre —
don’t reckon it matters much
if some of it does wash away.”
The small, but most im-
portant, group consists of pro-
gressive landholders who not
orrly talk conservation
language, not only read about
the subject, but apply the prin-
ciples of conservation and
sound farm-management to
their own land. These
men’s -holdings, in normal
seasons, stand out in
bold relief in the brown-
and-ochre winter landscape;
green, sown pastures, groves or
avenues of young trees, fenced-
off and seeded gully-heads, and


‘PHENOVIS’
?■
drench with the efficient
tiling DDNCf
w# 1 n &■“! m
BROWN HAIR
BARBER'S POLE
BLACK SCOUR
m
*kC
mm
m
m
the effective drench for
worms in sheep ...
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
Cl
<834.PHE.63X .4092
the poetic rhythm of contour-
worked paddocks or newly-
constructed banks; or less
frequently as yet —the striking
green swathe of a stabilising
waterway. In the final analysis,
the comparison is in the stock.
In the late winter the robust,
heavily-fleeced sheep of the
progressive farmer are a
startling contrast to the sheep
of his neighbors, battling on
natural pasture.
An interesting development
in cultural methods in this
district is the adoption of the
chisel-plough and similar imple-
ments, designed to break the
soil and prepare a seed-bed
without turning-under and
losing the protective cover of
grass and roots on the surface.
The simplest and most direct
application of this principle was
seen first in the Kingstown
area. Bordering on the wheat-
belt, this drier part of the
district lends itself to the estab-
lishment of sub.-elover and
Wimmera-rye. Lucerne is also
used extensively as a grazing-
crop. Soils are light and low
in binding clay-content, and
the sharp, sudden storms wreak
havoc on seed-beds worked up
to a fine tilth.
On two properties, Abington
and Carlowrie, an attempt was
made to avoid this risk by
using a rigid-tyne, stump-jump
cultivator in the preparation of
new land for pasture.
The. ultimate development of
this principle, perhaps, was on
Underwood, near Uralla. Here
Peter Davies had designed and
built for himself the great-
grandfather of all chisel-
ploughs, Great heavy knife-
blades a yard wide on each
side of the tyne, running up
to 6in. or more under the turf,
have a shattering and pulveris-
ing action, but still leave the
topsoil on top and the subsoil
underneath.
In combination with this
method, use is made, very
wisely, of a system of contour-
strips in the laying-down of
new pasture. Often the risk of
preparing the Whole of an area
of sloping land without pro-
tection is considered too great,
so to reduce this risk half of
the area is prepared and laid-
down at a time.
The other half, which is pre-
pared and sown as soon as 4 the
first half is established, is left
undisturbed in strips, pegged
on the contour around the
slope. Such a method enables
pasture to be laid-down reason-
ably safely on land, the value
of which, or the proposed
future use of which, does
not justify the construction
of a system of diversion-
and graded-banks complete
with waterways. Once the im-
proved-pasture is established,
the best of all protection is
there —a good sward of well-
balanced pasture-species, giving
a rising fertility-level, greater
absorption-rate, and direct
cover.
Another extremely interest-
ing development in the New
England is irrigation. The
small-farmer can now water his
grass whether he has a creek-
frontage or not. That is, of
course, if he has the necessary
surface-dams and the pumping-
and delivery-plant.
This year several farmers in
the district had started build-
ing holding-dams either as a
part of a general conservation-
scheme or alone, of an average
size of 1000 cu. yds., for no
other purpose than to be able
to squirt the water over a few
acres of Strategically-situated
pasture just at the tactically-
correct time.
The recent dry spring and
summer has taught the value
of such a provision. If each
of these progressive graziers in
this district had been able -to
irrigate, say, 10 acres in spring,
even this small area would have
been an excellent standby as the
season progressed and would
have saved much expensive
hand-feeding.
The necessary equipment
consists of a pump-attachment
to an ordinary wheeled tractor
and the delivery-gear—canvas
or aluminium pipes, and sprays.
This aspect of pasture-man-
agement is likely to become


CANE - ITE
Acousti-tile ceilings-
QUIET. BEAUTIFUL
f
m
'
1
> ... *
m*
Architect: Ivor Lloyil
Look at the ceiling of this
modern Oatley, N.S.W.,
home. Cane-ite Acousti-
Tile is beautiful and func-
tional, fits in with all
modern decor. The 484
sound traps in each 12-
inch square tile cut all
irritating noise by 65%!
And, of course, noise
reduction promotes greater
concentration and effici-
ency, better health- Cane-
ite Acousti-Tile can be
installed easily over exist-
ing walls and ceilings.
Repainting does not reduce
its noise absorption quali-
ties. Call your nearest
CSR representative for free
acoustical advice.
sioß
YU
JCANE-ITE
Acousti-tile
■iiiiJ FOt MOM* ÜBUCIKM AMI ' 'OUiIICAI COMI
! CO. LTD,
wurnc.
«»
Made by thi colonial sugar refininc
Building Malarial* Dirlainn
Shewiootnt at Sydney. Wagga, Newcastle. Melbourne,
Brisbane, Towniville, Adeluide. Perth
more important in the New
England. Its importance in the
field of soil-conservation lies
in the reduction of runoff
through impounding, and the
return to the upland soils of
water which is otherwise lost,
as well as the benefits derived
from better pasture-cover and
a rising fertility-level.
.
By far the most impressive
erosion-1 eature in this district
is the gully-head. A very large
number are of such a size and
their treatment appears to the
layman such a hopeless task
that very often nothing is
done—the evil day is postponed
indefinitely. But some land-
holders have attempted some
control of the actual gully-
h ead
In one instance a long, gently
sloping flume was constructed,
and, while the flow was tern-
porarily diverted, the batter
was established with a mixture
of clovers, rye-grasses, phalaris
and paspalum. In another in-
stance it was not possible to
divert the flow, and a stone
flume was constructed.
This type of structure appeals
more to the average farmer
than that type with vegetative
cover, because it is immediately
ready for use. The advantage
of immediate use is finally off-
set by cost, as the size of the
flume increases and the quan-
tity of stone and concrete
reaches prohibitive proportions.
Although much has been
done in the way of education
since the Soil Conservation
Service began operations, there
is still much more to be done
before conservation practice
can be said to be even more
than just introduced to the New
England. This work, that of
familiarising the average farmer
with the thought and practice
of conservation-farming, can
only be done, in a general
sense, through example, and
should from now on go ahead
rather more quickly.
Arbee.
"Not Too Fat"
“Bluey”: Bill Ritchie’s
remarks on excess fat in lamb
and mutton (B. 29/5/57)
apply also to beef and pig-
meats. Fat is costly to produce,
and the modern buyer doesn’t
want it. Feed a young animal
as much good pasture and
fodder as it can eat while it
is making meat, but go easy
when it begins to lay on too
much fat.
If all the food in Australia
which goes to making excess fat
could be converted into meat,
we would not only have more
meat, but the producers would
get a better return.
Fat is no good for breeders
either—it reduces fertility in
females, makes males lazy, and
increases the likelihood of
casting by heavy-in-lamb ewes.
Value of Silage
Here is a copy of a letter to
me, dated May 14, 1957, from
the Victorian Department of
Agriculture:
ihe samples of silage, collected
on your property some time ago by
Mr. K. Flynn, Dairy Husbandry
Officer, have now been analysed by
the State Laboratories. The results
are as follows:
Sample No. 1. Silage taken from
immediately below the plastic cover
on top ol a partly-covered wedge-
stack. At this point the cover was
held down by a 2in. layer of dry
giass and there was no apparent
top waste.
Crude-protein (on “dry-matter”
basis) 19.4 per cent.
Sample No. 2. Silage taken from
immediately b’elow the layer of
waste on that portion of the wedge-
stack top which was not protected
by the plastic cover. Here the top
waste was 3-4 in. deep. Crude-
protein (on “dry-matter” basis) 16.7
per cent.
The protein-content of silage is a
good measure of its quality, as silage
is usually fed-out when paddock-
feed is dry—in other words, when
it contains little protein. Analyses
made on a “dry-matter” basis are
made after all the moisture has been
removed from the sample.
For comparison, the crude-protein
content of average pasture silage on
a “dry-matter” basis is 11.5 per cent.
Therefore, the two samples of silage
collected on your farm were con-
siderable above average in quality.
(Signed) T. M. Jensen,
Superintendent of Dairying.
This silage was part of 250
tons made by a contractor in
the first week of December,
1956, for 15s. a ton. The price
was “all-in,” and included
building and rolling the stacks.
The contractor used a Grass-
lands Forage Harvester with a
Nuffield tractor, and with a
Ferguson tFactor to assist.
The pasture cut seven tons
to the acre, green, and was a
typical, good-quality Gipps-
land pasture,, based on white-
clover and perennial-rye. It
included cocksfoot, H.l rye-
grass and a little Montgomery
red-clover.
The rye-grass seed-heads
were well formed when the
crop was cut, and I would have
considered it as past its prime
for making first-quality, high-
protein silage.
I feel that I can draw several
conclusions from my experi-
ence of ensilage:
1. That making silage with
a crude-protein content of
from 16 per cent, to 19 per
cent, (on a “dry-matter” basis)
for 15s. a ton is far cheaper,
better and safer than making
grass-hay with about 10 per
cent, crude-protein at, say,
£4 15s. a ton.
2. That silage, properly
made, even in a stack on the
ground, can be of high quality
and with little waste. Also,
being above ground, it is easy
to self-feed.
3. That where it is possible
to completely cover the sheet
with a protective layer of
rubbish, the use of a plastic
sheet is justified. The plastic
sheet used was of Alkathene
.006 thick, supplied by Die
Casters, Ltd., and costing about
3s. 6d. per square-yard. With-
out suitable protection the
sheet is useless, as it tears at
the seams in a wind.
4. That there seems no need
for preservatives in Australian
silage-making, since it appears
possible to make silage of very
high- protein-value from a crop
sufficiently mature to produce
adequate lactic-acid quickly.
I have been feeding the silage
since January, at the rate of
about 1001 b. per cow, and
maintaining good production
in a drought. When this highly
palatable 19 per cent, protein
feed at 15s. a ton cuts-out I
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford
Wool Type Card. This Card
has many uses —as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered—in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed,
or in the paddock, with a
type, perhaps, outside the
main run of your experience.
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing.
A comparison study, using
the Bradford Wool Type
Card, eliminates the possi-
bility of error. Your name
and address and a' postal
note for 7/6 addressed to
“The Bulletin” will send one
on its way.


Buii a Yiue/r
Quafitoj
STORM LANTERN
and get value for
money! Gives 12 hours
brilliant light on only l£
pints of kerosene. Abso-
lutely wind and weather-
proof. A Reflector is
available as an extra if
required.
And 106% British Made too I
300 Candlepower
m
Model X 244
‘Si?the diUeknee!
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores throughout Australia.
In ease of difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to >
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
shall have to feed hay of about
8 per cent, protein at £9 a ton,
lucerne-meal of 15 per cent, or
less at £2O a ton, and pro-
prietary cow-meal of 16 per
cent, protein at about £25 a
ton. Can you wonder I am
completely “sold” on silage?
I would emphasise that the
cost of 15s. a ton was a con-
tractor’s price. I consider the
owner-operator could do the
job for not more than 7s. a
ton.
It seems to me utterly incom-
prehensible why otherwise
efficient graziers continue to
ignore the world landslide to
silage, and keep piling-up, in
expensive shedding, costly
baled hay with a protein food-
value slightly higher than
cardboard.
K. G. SCHOEFFEL.
Sensitive-plant
“Agricola”: A handsome
legume, the giant sensitive-
plant, is causing North Queens-
land canefarmers a man-sized
headache. It has become a
pest of major importance.
The tough main stem sends
out runners up to 20ft. long.
These are heavily armed with
sharp barbs, and, when fully
grown, carry hundreds of seed-
pods. The seeds are covered
with a tough protective coat
which enables them to survive
for long periods in the ground.
Although stock will eat the
plant when it’s young, they
aren’t in the hunt when the
legume develops a bit of age.
The barjps keep both man and
beast at a distance.
Fire doesn’t kill the pest,
either. The main stems survive
and sucker faster than ever.
The sensitive-plant can be
destroyed, but it’s a long
constant job. Bulldozing,'
hormone- or arsenic-sprays will
kill it off, but a constant watch
must be kept for roots and
runners. Any young regrowth
must be dug out or sprayed at
once. If the plants seed you’ll
have a lot of work on your
hands for a long while.
Various researchers are flat-
out searching for a biological
control. So far they haven’t
had any luck, but they still hold
out hope.
In N.Q. thousands of acres
of cane are threatened
a serious matter in land
worth up to £2OO an acre.
Re-infestation from neglected
or abandoned farms is also a
problem. These neglected areas
seed regularly, and a careful
farmer whose paddocks adjoin
these wildernesses really has a
problem on his hands. The
temperature and high rainfall
encourages rapid growth.
Freights
“Ellen”: Whispers of pend-
ing increases in sea-freights
remind me that, according to
Victorian Chamber of Agri-
culture leader H. A. Were,
Australia’s overseas-freight bill
last year swallowed 20 per cent,
of the proceeds of our exports.
We are paying nearly £lOO
million a year on imports,
£6O million on exports.
The Australian Industries
Development Association shows
that the total value of all Aus-
tralian exports of wheat, flour,
sugar, dried-fruits, butter, milk,
eggs and cheese last year were
not enough to meet the total
freight and insurance on our
imports and exports.
Farm Hints
“Sundowner”: For a cheap
cattle-lick, take 20 parts of
coarse salt, five parts of di-
calcic phosphate or sterilised
bone-flour, and four parts of
air-slaked lime. During the
green-feed period give cows
2oz. each day and increase this
to 3oz. during the dry time.
“Billjim”: Efficient dairy-
sheds should have: walk-
through bails ; good drainage,
to ensure easy cleaning of
floors and quick drying; a
room separated from the milk-
room to house engine and
vacuum-pump; sheds located
at least 50yds. from piggeries
and poultry-houses; small
holding-yards to ensure easy
handling and lower costs of
construction. v
“B.”: With colder weather,
it’s a good idea to have your
car’s generator charge-rate in-
creased to meet the heavier
electrical demand, or amper-
age, and to compensate for the
lower efficiency of a cold
battery.
“Nelo”: Arsenic in pre-
pared sheep-drenches some-
times forms a white sediment
at the bottom of the bottle.
Make sure you shake the
bottle well, or some sheep may
get an overdose.
“A.M.”: A fowl that walks
like a duck, but continues to
lay eggs, has a dropped abdo-
men due to weak muscles fail-
ing to give adequate support.
There is no known cure, but
the fowl will probably remain
healthy, although the eggs will
not be fertile.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(30/5/’57)
Sunspot activity still remains at a comparatively low
level, and this is normally associated with poor rainfall.
The prospects of good rain during June will depend to a
large extent on whether an increase occurs in sunspot
activity during the next couple of weeks. Good rains are
indicated in a' large part of Queensland during June and July,
with the Best falls in the southern half of the State.
N.S.W. should receive reasonably good rains during
June, although the central coast and southern tablelands
may get only light to moderate rain. Better rains are likely
in July, with the heaviest falls on the coastal areas.
Victoria should get general rains, mainly below average,
during June and July, although better falls are indicated in
part of the north-east and western divisions.
Rain should be-mainly below average in South Aus-
tralia in June and July, light in the Murray Valley and
interior; but one cycle indicates excellent rains in July, so
some variation is possible.
The agricultural areas of Western Australia should
receive general rains in June, heaviest on the south coast.
Apart from good rains in the De Grey, Gascoyne and gold-
fields areas, rainfall should be poor elsewhere in the State.
Good rains should occur in the agricultural areas during
July.
LENNOX WALKER.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Wool Week is sometimes chosen by
social committees for their functions
because it is thought that “the country
people will be down,” and that there-
fore the attendances will be increased.
But it is generally found that the
country people have all they can do to
cope with their own social functions —
a ball in aid of Torchbearers for Legacy
and the Far West Children, an official
cocktail-party and various sectional cock-
tail-parties (the Corriedale Society, the
British Breed, etc.), as well as private
parties and several country weddings.
This year, too, the ballet-season claimed
the attention of many, so the numbers
were down on several functions.
Still, the St. John Ambulance Brigade
has a very loyal following, and about
200 attended the White Cross Dinner-
Dance at Prince’s on Friday. Brigade-
members in uniform formed a guard-of-
honor for the Lieutenant-Governor, Sir
Kenneth Street, who was welcomed by
chairman C. R. McKerihan and vice-
president Lady Plowman. Noted that
at the official table (beautifully decorated
in all-white, ribbons and candles, against
a red background) only two of the men
wore their uniforms. They were Dr.
Robert Steel, who is the Commissioner,
and Dr. Neville Hoddle. Prizes won
during the night were a painting by Erik
Langker, which went to Mrs. A. Simpson,
and a lovely little antique coffee-table,
which was won by Mrs. Bruce
Macfarlan.
v S #
Led by the Principal Commandant,
Mrs. Persia Porter, nearly 700 V.A.s
marched past the Governor, Sir John
Northcott, at Victoria Barracks on Satur-
day afternoon. This parade was a
special one, held so that Sir John, who has
always lent his strong support to this
auxiliary of Red Cross, could review them
for the last time before he relinquishes
his post, which will be before the annual
parade held late in the year; and in
farewelling them, after reviewing every
detachment, he paid tribute to the work
they are doing and to their fine bearing
on parade. And the girls certainly were
turned-out well and marched with fine
precision. His Excellency's daughter, Mrs.
Russell Nash, accompanied him.
•ft ☆ ☆
Three interesting talks last Thursday
brought their quota of knowledge to this
Letter with a minimum of effort. The
first, at the Royal Empire Society, was
on the subject of the Suez Canal and
given by Captain F. J. Mortleman,
who was for 23 years a pilot on the
canal and retired as Senior Pilot. He
gave a brilliant review of the canal’s
history, and said that Britain would
never agree to any one nation having
unfettered control of the waterway. He
was sceptical of Egypt’s being able
to keep the canal in good condition, for,
he said, “If there is one proverb
Egyptians do not understand, it is, ‘A
stitcti in time saves nine.’ ” Mr. Ivan
Black, M.L.A., introduced Captain
Mortleman, and Mr. A. L. Rigby
proposed the vote of thanks.
The second talk was on orchids, and
was given by another expert, Mr. Frank
Slattery, at the Garden Club’s meeting.
Mr. Slattery showed colored-slides of
many orchid-varieties, some resembling
a group of ballet-dancers (very appro-
priate at present), some spindly as spiders,
little bush-orchids, great cattleyas; he
spoke nonchalantly of bulbs which cost
from £3OO to £6OO each. Still, orchid-
growing is within the reach of most
people, with bulbs at ss. or so, and
N.S.W. is becoming known as one of the
greatest of the world’s centres for their
cultivation.
“An Irish Jew at a Protestant Uni-
versity” was the amusing title of the
talk which Mr. Mordecai Nurock,
Minister for Israel, gave at the Aisling
Society’s meeting. Mr. Nurock speaks
with a soft Irish brogue, and says he
owes his entry into the civil service to his
ability to sing “The Mountains of
Mourne,” while his twinkling wit
throughout his nostalgic reminiscences
of life at Trinity College, Dublin, led
the Aisling’s president, Mr. James
Meagher, to say that he could not be
called an Irish Jew, but a Jewish
Irishman!.
Wife of Sydney’s new director of the
Symphony Orchestra, Mrs. Nicolai
Malko is a charming addition to Sydney
society; she has just returned from her
first visits to Brisbane and Perth and
will shortly visit Melbourne and
Adelaide. Russian-born, like her hus-
band, Mrs. Malko is an accomplished
linguist, speaking five languages. She was
studying piano at the Kharkov Con-
servatoire when she met her husband, who
was a guest-lecturer there. Dr. and Mrs.
Malko have settled-down at Elizabeth
Bay, Sydney, and hope later to welcome
to Australia their only son George, who
is 21 and a script-writer for the N.B.C.
Present at the reception given by the
Sydney.. Symphony Orchestral Commit-
tee to pianist Va]da Aveling were two
members of the committee formed 18
years ago to - send her abroad to study.
They were Lady Jordan (who leaves in
the Orcades, by the way, for one of her
regular visits abroad) and Mrs. Hope
Gibson. Valda, who has had an out-
standing teaching career in England, will
give 20 concerts during her tour of
Australia.
tr ☆ <r
An interesting engagement is that of
Elizabeth Mackerras to Andrew de Briger,
an architect of Russian descent who has
been three years in Australia—he is the
nephew of Madame Legat, who trained
Elizabeth in the Ballet School at Tun-
bridge, England. Elizabeth, of course,
is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. P.
Mackerras (of Turramurra), whose son
Charles (now touring Canada with
the English Opera Group) was respon-
sible for the orchestration of the popular
ballet “Pineapple Poll.”
v V #
Charming personality Mrs. Barbara
Bennett said farewell to her son, Lieut.-
Commander John Bennett, Mrs. Bennett
and her small grandson Paul this week.
John has been posted to Flinders Naval
Depot, and for the next two years the
family’s home will be Somers (Vic.).
☆ «• i?
St. Aloysius’ College must be creating
a near-record with its 45th annual ball,
to be held this year at the Australia
Hotel on Thursday, June 20. Mrs. Denis
Bergin is the president of the ladies’'
committee, and John Kearney president
of the 0.8. U. St. Aloysius’, which is
in its 70th year, had its first home (it is
interesting to note) in St. Kilda House,
Palmer-street, a' massive building which
has been in the news lately, as it is
threatened with demolition.
d V
The Elizabethan Little Theatre Group,
which consists of young theatre-
enthusiasts working for the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust, welcomed the stars of
“The Diary of Anne Frank” to their
cocktail-party at the Royal Empire
Society’s rooms on Friday. Noel
Madison, producer of this very beautiful
play, explained the intricacies of stage-
design that it involved (it is set on five
different levels), and pointed out that no
member of the main cast is off the stage
for one minute during the whole play.
President of the E.L.T.G., Noel Pelly,,
welcomed the guests, who numbered I
about 70.


MELBOURNE
Four-hundred guests attended the civic
reception given at the Town Hall for the
Governor-General, Field-Marshal Sir
William Slim, and Lady Slim by the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr. Sir
Frank and Lady Selleck).
Lady Slim wore a magnificent gown of
hibiscus-red faille, the voluminous skirt
slightly trained, the bodice draped. The
hostess’s crinoline-skirted gown was of
hydrangea-blue tulle and lace ; the tiered
tulle skirt had an apron-front of matching
lace embroidered with iridescent blue
sequins, matching the sequins on the lace
bodice.
Mrs. Bolte, wife of the Premier, wore
a gown of pale-peach lace, finished with
a wide lace flounce, caught with a looped
band of deeper-pink satin to match her
satin stole. Mrs. Rogan, wife of the Town
Clerk, chose a gown of paie-pink satin-
brocade and a matching stole. Lady
Lienhop’s gown of white French paper-
taffeta was made on Empire-lines; the
skirt flared from the fitted bodice,
through which was slotted the ends of a
satin stole, one end, of turquoise, match-
ing her gloves, the other wattle-gold.
Among the guests were Sir Frank and
Lady Tait; Mrs. Sydney Baillieu Myer
(in pale-gold auchesse-satin, with the deep
square neckline gold-embroidered); Sir
Julius and Lady Bruche ; Sir William and
Lady Bridgeford; Dr. and Mrs. John
Grantley Shelton; the Matron-in-Chief
of the R.A.A.N.C., Colonel E. J. Bowe ;
the Lady Superintendent of the Alfred
Hospital, Miss J. Hanna ; Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Menzies; Mr. and Mrs. L. R.
Buxton and Adelaide visitor Cr. Esther
Lipman, the first woman to be elected to
the Adelaide City Council.
& »
The annual birthday-luncheon of the
American Women’s Auxiliary to the
Royal Children’s Hospital was held at
the South Yarra home of Mrs. Gerald
Warner, wife of the U.S. Consul-General.
It marked the auxiliary’s 25th year of
service to the hospital, rather wonderful
when it is remembered that there is a
continual coming and going of its
members. Those at the luncheon included
Mrs. A. J. Mclntosh (president of auxili-
aries), Miss Carmen Winter (auxiliaries’
organiser), Mrs. Mark Clements and Mrs.
William Bushwaller. Silver-spoons were
presented by Mrs. Clements to Mesdames
Wayne Brown, James Clymer, A. E.
Hotchkiss and F. H. Wright for 10 years
of service to the auxiliary. Farewell
silver-spoons were presented to Mesdames
A. W. Butler, J. A. Gage, A. F. May,
John McComb and G. Seemeyer.
V V V
Mrs. W. Tipping, who was in charge
of publicity for functions concerned with
the Mediterranean Fair in aid of the
University’s Union House appeal, reports
that the two days of the fair yielded
£7500, which is a record. Congratulations
to all concerned.
Singing with the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra, visiting soprano Leontyne
Price enchanted a big audience with her
personality, the purity of her voice and
her artistry. The singer scored, too, with
her graceful gown of pale-green chiffon,
the long skirt draped in front, the softly-
draped bodice cut to reveal one shoulder.
Born in Ohio, Mrs. John Hussey was
working in the U.S. Embassy in Bolivia
when she met her husband; they were
married there. He is now Colonel John
Hussey, the U.S. Air Force Attache here,
and they have four boys, the youngest
twins. Mrs. Hussey is a member of the
American Womens Auxiliary to the
Royal Children's Hospital.
There had not been a wedding-
ceremOny in Welsh hereabouts for 50
years until Iris Ann Owen and John
Richard Anwyl Williams were married
at the Welsh Church in La Trobe-street
last week. Iris is the eldest daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. H. Owen, of Llanfechell,
Wales ; the bridegroom is the eldest son
of Mrs. M. Williams, of Llangwyllog,
Wales. Both have been in Australia only
two years. The Rev. R. Caradoc
Hughes, the only minister in Victoria who
regularly preaches his sermons in Welsh,
performed the ceremony. The bride wore
a ballerina-frock of white Swiss-lace, with
panels in the skirt of white tulle. An
orange-blossom circlet held the short tulle
veil.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Gordon Group, composed of
young people who work for the Gordon
Boys’ Cottage Homes, has issued attrac-
tive invitations to a progressive-dinner
which will be held on June 29. These
show a map which the dinner will
follow. It begins with cocktails at
the home of Beverley Ball, then guests
will go to Margaret O’Sullivan’s for
soup; dinner will be served at the Haw-
thorn home of Anne Dixon, and coffee
will be at Margaret Daley’s Toorak home.
Those who wish to attend are asked to
contact Merryn Cook at MU 8127 or
BM 2145.
#
Singer Elsie Morison, star of opera,
radio and television in England, has
returned after having been abroad for
11 years. Her mother saw her at the
airport for the first time since they had
met in London seven years ago. Miss
Morison, who will spend about six
months in Australia, will be one of the
stars in the Elizabethan Trust Opera
Company’s forthcoming season, appear-
ing in “La Boheme” and “The Bartered
Bride.” First taught by her mother, who
is a singing-teacher, Miss Morison won
the Melba Scholarship, which took her
to the Melba Memorial Conservatorium,
whence she graduated to the Royal
College of Music.
* * ☆
A large and distinguished audience
packed the premiere of the Tivoli show
“Say It with Stars,” which is beautifully
presented and gay with colorful costumes.
The Lady Mayoress (Lady Selleck) was
present, smart in a black ensemble topped
with a mutation-mink stole. With her
were her son-in-law and daughter, the
Geoffrey Tolsons. As the House was
sitting, the Premier’s wife, Mrs. Henry
Bolte, wearing a glowing scarlet velvet
ankle-length frock, was with Mrs. Gordon
Cooper and Mrs. J. D. MacDonald.
Others present were Mr. and Mrs. Mick
Ress (she smart as usual in black faille).
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Lynch, Mr. and
Mrs. Royden Honeyman, and Mr. and
Mrs. A. G. Silk, who were accompanied
by Mrs. Maurice Nathan. Mrs. George
Laurens brought her daughter Diana,
Carolyn Fairley and David Jones, and
with Mrs. Charles Davidson was her
daughter Noelle.
CANBERRA
“Much Ado About Nothing” is the title
chosen by the Canberra Repertory Society
for a masked fancy-dress ball on June 21
at the Hotel Ainslie-Rex. Everyone is
asked to dress as a character from a
favorite play, so costumes should be
varied and interesting. Proceeds will help
the building-fund, which the society hopes
will pass the £ 1000-mark this month.
Ticket-secretaries are Mrs. Anne Herde
(U 2267) and Mrs. Nita Parks (X 1704).
V *
Madame Chen Tai-Chu, wife of the
Chinese Minister, heads a committee of
ladies of the diplomatic missions organis-
ing an international dinner-dance at the
Albert Hall on Friday, July 12. Decor,
designed by Madame Helmi (wife of the
Indonesian Ambassador), will have an
Asian influence. A programme of
national dances of Thailand, Indonesia,
Bavaria and Brazil will add a truly inter-
national touch, and another feature of
the evening will be a midnight raffle of an
“international” hamper of contributions
from the Diplomatic Corps. Proceeds of
the evening will benefit the Handicapped
Children’s Society, Canberra, and
International House, Melbourne.


though, to my amazement, in
these places the orchids grew
more luxuriantly than ever.
AS we came out upon a
steaming plateau the rain
came down, torrential, blotting
out the view, and freezing cold.
My companions broke into a
un, and I joined them I
lidn’t know why—racing until
ve stood at the edge of this
arge smoke-grey pool, the pool
)f the ten Kiriwinas.
There the waves of heat
enveloped us, the warm steam
nullified the lash of the rain,
and we relaxed.
After we had time to look
about us, and when the lifting
steam-clouds temporarily ex-
posed the further side of the
pool, I saw that in a cleft there
the water was boiling briskly,
but the greater area was clear.
The bottom was littered with
blue-grey sticks upon which
bundles of food had once been
suspended for cooking.
The pool was rimmed with
)ff-white silica, and a silica
errace, like the famous
erraces of the New Zealand
hermal region, spread out to
one side, rimmed erratically
with clumps of pandanus-palm.
Once or twice .my sandalled
feet broke through a minor
crust and were scalded. I
noticed that my companions
had no such trouble. True,
they were lighter than I, but
I felt that the abrupt leather
edges of my sandals might
have been a factor, so I slipped
them off and went barefoot,
thereafter conscious, in some
mysterious way, of the strength
of the crust beneath me.
FURTHER up the valley a
massive geyser began to
play, rearing to no very im-
pressive height, perhaps 15ft.,
but carrying a huge column of
water.
There were several small
geysers, and several fiercely
boiling pools. Over all there
hung an aroma of sulphur.
There was one place where
mud, but not thick mud, had
been spurted round ; but there
were none of the fantastic fleur-
de-lis effects of the boiling
mud-pools of Whakarewarewa.
The fantasy came most beauti-
fully in the silica formations,
which displayed flower patterns,
crystal patterns, lily - pad
patterns in monochromes of
mushroom, or the color of
weathered milk-chocolate.
As at Rotorua and at Yellow-
stone, cold pools and hot pools
shouldered one another, and
there were pools where the
two temperatures combined
pleasingly.
In one of these Mwabweia
and the happy hanger-on
stopped to bathe, laughing
happily for the sheer delight
of laving in the unaccustomed
heat.
We kept on walking through
rain of the lOin.-an-hour
variety until we came to another
part of the thermal region
called Sosorina, a name which
doesn’t seem to mean anything
at all. Perhaps it once meant
something in a language other
than the Dobu which through
missionary encouragement has
been spread over a wide area.
Sosorina had more geysers,
more boiling pools, more silica ;
I would have liked to explore
the valley at leisure, but the
insistent rain was discouraging,
my companions and I were far
from comfortable, and my
decision to go back met an
enthusiastic response.
When we arrived back at the
beach at Paragwa, the rain
ceased, and the fine weather
held for weeks. Some day, I
tell myself, I’ll go back.
I THINK that few Aus-
tralians know anything of
their thermal wonderland, or
know, indeed, that they possess
one.
laie Bworema is not as
extensive as the Rotorua area,
or seems not to be ; although,
of course, it should not be
considered except in relation
to, as connected with, the hot
sea-springs of Dobu Island and
another, more extensive region
in Fergusson, which faces
Goodenough Island. I have not
been there, but I have seen the
region briefly from the air.
At a further distance, to be
considered as a separate entity,
are certain disciplined geysers
in the fastnesses of the Gazelle
Peninsula behind Rabaul, and
perhaps other phenomena,
never yet recorded.
This is tourist-country, of
course, and its concentration of
marvels is unbeatable. The
magnificent mountains and
waterfalls are hardly bettered
by the grandeurs of neighboring
Goodenough, the island which,
of all the world, has the greatest
height for its size, reaching
8500 ft. from the sea verge.
The corals are more varied,
more beautiful and more acces-
sible than those of the Barrier
Reef, as are the fish which
swim amongst them.
In neighboring islands are
cool limestone caves, not so
extensive but fully as interesting
as the caves of Jenolan,
Waitomo and Katherine.
From Fergusson it is a short
run to the Dum Dums, the
Amphlelt group where the
Pacific’s best potters produce
marvels in baked clay. And
native cultures vary from
island to island.
Tourist-country, but Fer-
gusson has other potentials.
From its geothermal activity we
could capture industrial energy
and harness the illimitable
activity that beats here against
the earth’s weak crust, as they
have done in Italy, in Iceland
and New Zealand ; we could,
if we wished, produce supplies
of heavy water; there is no
goal for which we cannot aim.
AS we left the valley, wading
knee-deep through steam-
ing water, I looked back
at the pool of the ten
Kiriwinas, at laie Bworema
and its steam thrusting across
the terraces, half-obliterating
the sight of the sentinel clumps
of pandanus.
“It is very beautiful,’’ I said
to Degei.
“It is a good place to cook
kai,” he said. “We should
have brought some with us.”
on her hammer till she reached
the top tier of the rock-garden
' —still with the bananas.
Unfortunately, I was out at
the time, and when I returned
an hour later I was unnerved
to see a slobbering Rhad at the
second-top tier of the rockery,
and Bet and the bananas in the
fork of the frangipani tree.
On seeing me, Rhad turned
and gave me a begging look.
Then we woke-up. It was the
bananas, not Bet’s blood, he
was after! His breeder in the
tropical north, being a man
proud—and rightly so--of the
docility of his Zebus, had made
pets of them all by feeding
them on bananas by the shirt-
ful .. .
There were times when
people came to sneer at our
Rhad ; and, what is more, they
were still sneering when they
left. However, our faith in
Rhad never wavered.
Admittedly, until we got
used to Brahmans and their
ways, we had a few anxious
moments like the time we
first heard Rhad sing out at
night ... the night we first
heard his voice.
We had just listened to a
police-message announcing that
a woman-killer escapee from
a mental home was believed to
have headed towards the cane-
fields of the Far North. No
sooner had the message con-
cluded than we heard the most
horrible, hair-raising screams
from outside.
Our blood ran cold as we
tried to think what to do. Then
we heard the clop, clop of
hoofs on cement.
ft was Rhad. He had got
out of his paddock and come to
the house for company. The
“screams” were the stock-in-
trade of lonesome Brahman
bulls. We were immediately
immune to further screams, but
some of our overnight guests
don’t take them so calmly . . .
Two years have passed since
we took in our first Brahman.
Since then we have received
our best cheque yet for our
yearlings. and Rhad has
matured into the district show-
piece rather than the district
joke. But I haven’t time to
write any more just now. We
expect the float here any
minute with our new purchases,
Ayesha and Amaj, the two
Brahman heifers, and Salva-
tore, the Santa Gertrudis bull.
We are going in for
Brahmans.
US
Herds! herds ! herds ! herded and yarded by the church,
the State,
By birth and death, and sex and time and fate.
The super-beast that clears the dogs, the whips, the rails
Goes outcast till the spirit fails,
And joins again some centre-pool of life
Maybe, maybe, that froths and boils and ferments to be
free.
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN.


rut ftU'ißtvisa
the Pen
luitli the
Marvellous
Nib!
m
r
w.
Prices from
29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
ceivif ITIIIIT • It. t TO. ttltlf
Turning to the boss-boy,
now standing anxiously in the
doorway, he gave the neces-
sary instructions in rapid
pidgin. While Hart was being
carried aboard he tossed
toilet articles and a few clothes
into a suitcase, locked the
house and left a week’s rations
for the labor.
It was almost sundown when
we cast off, each of us aware
that delay could mean the
difference between life and
death to the man lying in
Rusty’s bunk.
For the first few hours our
progress was maddeningly
slow. The sou’-east monsoon,
blustering up from the Rai
coast, was right in our teeth,
a dead muzzier that made our
sails useless and kicked up a
steep head-sea. To save a life
we needed speed, but wind and
sea were doing their best to
retard us. The Islander was
pile-driving, slamming up and
down and making only crawl-
ing progress. Rusty stood
beside the native helmsman,
saying nothing yet inwardly
fuming at the delay.
I stayed below and did what I
could for Hart. There was little
I could do. Our medicine-chest
contained only the simplest
remedies, and, in any case, we
hadn’t the slightest idea what
our patient was suffering from.
Shortly after midnight, hear-
ing shouted orders and the
patter of bare feet on deck, I
left Hart and went up to see
what was doing. Rusty had
the wheel, and under Yagura’s
urgent driving the boys were
getting all sail on. Astern of
us I recognised the dark mass
of Karkar Island. We were
making the turn for the run
down to Madang, and for the
rest of the way the wind would
be helping instead of hindering
us.
TOURING the next few hours,
while Hart lay either
sleeping or unconscious, I
visited the deck frequently.
Yagura had taken the wheel
and Rusty stood beside him,
one hand resting lightly on the
binnacle. Right up for’ard two
boys were crouched on look-
out -
Driving under engine and
sail, the Islander was really
moving now. Heeling oyer
with the pressure of the wind
on her big sails, she was surg-
ing forward, churning up a
phosphorescent wake that
stretched far out into the dark-
ness astern. Seas thudded
against her weather bow and
drifted aft in clouds of stinging
spray.
At any other time it would
have been a thrilling sensation,
but for every one of us those
n ®? few . hours , were . P
tension and anxiety. I
eould see the strain showing in
Yagura s brown face, lit up as
was by the upward glow
tke binnacle light, I
r OL ! ® ens f 11 m ;^ st y an< *
feet it in the crouched figures
of the lookout-boys,
_
For Rusty was cutting
corners. Knowing that every
h° ur every minute—counted,
be was deliberately taking
r isks > shaving hidden reefs that
h u e normally have given
the widest of berths, relying on
his amazing local knowledge
that in the darkness amounted
almost to instinct.
Once when I went below to
check-up on my patient, I
stared for some time at that
pudgy, unlikeable face, think-
ing of the meanness behind it
and of the shabby way he had
repaid Rusty for his many
generous acts.
'“lf you only knew what he’s
doing for you now, Hart,” I
said aloud, “you’d haul your-
self out of that bunk and crawl
up the companionway to thank
him.”
For a moment his eyelids
flickered and his petulant
mouth twitched into a faint
sneer. I knew then, in fact I
had known all along, that even
if he recovered, Hart would not
bother to thank Rusty.
Fie was that type of man.
At dawn we entered Madang
harbor, and though we rushed
Hart straight to the hospital, he
was beyond help. He died two
hours later. Ruptured appen-
dix, the doctor said.
VJS7E all turned out for the
funeral next day. Johnny
Starr read the burial service
and the rest of us stood around
the grave, hushed by the occa-
sion.
Death had touched our small
community, and since it was
so very small we chose to for-
get the manner of man Evan
Hart had been. He was dead
now and we would speak no ill
of the dead, at least on this
day.
When it was all over Johnny
led the way and we followed
him silently to the pub. Beer
was put in front of us and we
fingered our glasses in silence.
Once again custom was dictat-
ing to us. Before we drank,
someone must say a good word
for the late Evan Hart.
But no one spoke.
The silence became oppres-
sive, and I saw Johnny Starr
clear his throat as if about to
speak. Apparently he thought
better of it, for he continued
to stare silently at his glass.
lan McAlpine, the surveyor,
made an indeterminate noise
and then stepped back as
though saying “Better count
me out.”
I tried desperately to think
of some kindly thing, however
trivial, to say; but I could
think of nothing. If there had
been one likeable trait, one
redeeming feature in Evan
Hart’s make-up, I had never
heard of it. )
Finally, when we could bear
the strain no longer, Rusty
picked up his glass in the
manner of a man who is deter-
mined to do the right thing.
“Evan Hart,” he said
solemnly, “had the easiest hair
to cut of any man on the
coast.”


neighboring lands and waters —from
Malaya to New Zealand; with
aboriginal tales by K. Langloh Parker
and Roland Robinson and a few bits
of white Australian folklore such, as
Lance Skuthorpe’s evergreen “The
Champion Bullock-driver”—is, there-
fore, exceptionally interesting as a
collection of the fairytales which
increasingly will be adopted as our
own.
It is a strange thought to the present
reviewer that two of Australia’s liveliest
spinners of fairytales Norman
Lindsay and Mervyn Skipper—have
both been connected with “The
Bulletin”: it must prove something or
other. And, though Miss Heddle didn’t
think of including an extract from “The
Magic Pudding.” or excluded it as not
precisely mythological, it is pleasing to
come across Skipper’s “The Tiger
and the Mouse-deer” again (from “The
Meeting Pool”) and once more to be
charmed by the gallantry with which
the mouse-deer (to avoid being eaten)
gets his nasty friend stung by
ants, nipped by split bamboos and
bitten by snakes:—
And just then he saw his old
friend Inchek Ular the Snake
coiled up under a tree having a
quiet nap....“ls that really King
Solomon’s turban?” said the Tiger.
“I should like above all things to
wear it.”
“Put it on by all means,” said the
Mouse-deer, “but first let me get well
away in case King Solomon is
angry.”
The attraction of this legend from
Borneo, apart from its humor, is that
it is not too different from the
European fairytales we are accustomed
to; it is also very like some of the
“Brer Rabbit” tales. It transfers
well; it is comprehensible. And this is
a point always worth watching when
anyone tries to add such tales to our
folklore, for we are only likely to
accept what charms or amuses us,
what is somehow significant. And
for this reason .it seems a pity that
the Langloh Parker stories should be
so full of “wirreenuns” and “nyunnoos”
and other incomprehensible abo-
riginal objects, and that the homely
bindi-eye should be made strange and
remote as a “bindeah.” Of all
re-tellers of aboriginal tales none has
done better than Roland Robinson to
make them, in his simple style and
vocabulary, readily acceptable:—
Ungortarenga is the name of the
place. Burt Well, where there is a
well for cattle, is the white-man’s
name.
An old man there has a shield
and a boomerang. All the winds
that blow, blow back to this one
place where that old man stays.
The old man lies down and the winds
from all directions come and cover
him up with dust and sand.
It is to Miss Heddle’s credit, as well
as to that of the authors, that most of
the legends in this book do come
across very well. Some particularly
pleasing items are A. W. Reed’s Maori
story (retold from Grey’s “Polynesian
Mythology,” if one remembers rightly)
about how Rata chopped-down a tree
to make a canoe, and the birds and
insects put the tree together again every
night; and some tales from the islands
by Eve Grey. Incidentally, there is no
reason why something of Stevenson’s
from Samoa (“The Bottle Imp”?)
should not be included in a collection
of this kind.
Like its companion “Boomerang”
anthology of Australian poetry —a
rather mixed collection—“ Legendary
Tales” is presumably intended both
for use in schools and for sale to the
public. Anybody who doesn’t have
to read it- —older child or adult —
should enjoy it; and it is even possible,
so do we advance towards making
education palatable, that the school-
child will find it pleasing.
THE DRYAD
There is a dryad in the lemon
But which, but which is she
In ail those shapes so like a woman
That nestle in the tree?
If I could tell what tender pair
Of pointed breasts are hers
Among so many clustering there
Where soft the green leaf stirs,
If I could see what deep recess
Of shadow hides her hair
And all that dappled nakedness,
I'd stretch my hand to her;
But love and light and thorny branch
And nymph and lemon-tree
They mingle so I can but watch,
But watch and let her be.
N.S.W.
Douglas Stewart.
New Paperback Library
Twelve volumes of Macmillans’ new
series of paperbacks, to be published
Under the general title of “St. Martin’s
Library,” make the brightest array this
reviewer has seen on his desk for many
a day. They have not the glossy finish
of the Collins “Pan” and “Fontana”
series, which are aimed at the popular
best-selling market; butdn a singularly
happy contrast of crimson and white
manage to catch the eye—so far as
appearance goes—rather more vividly
than either the Penguins or, in their
dustjackets, Everymans.
Except for the paperback format,
the general idea of the series seems
closer to Everymans and the other
“classics” series than to the Penguins.
At least, Frazer’s “The Golden Bough”
(in the abridged edition: making two
volumes) is included, a rather more
formidable work that you would
expect to find even in the Penguin
classics though considerably less
formidable, one should add, than the
original ten (or was it twelve?) volumes
which this reviewer once waded
through for a winter’s reading; and,
except for the repetitions which the
abridged edition avoids, enjoyed.
Bradley’s “Shakspearean Tragedy,”
one of the most lucid and approachable
of all Shakspearian commentaries (and,
incidentally, exceptionally illuminat-
ing on “Hamlet”), is another scholarly
work included
On the other hand, there are Hugh
Walpole’s “Rogue Herries” and
Margaret Mitchell’s “Gone With the
Wind” to give the popular touch; and
there are such works as Hardy’s “Tess
of the D’Urbervilles” and “Far From
the Madding Crowd,” Charles
Morgan’s “Portrait in a Mirror,”
“Three Plays,” by Sban O’Casey
(including “Juno and the Paycock”)
and two volumes of Osbert Sitwell’s
autobiographies which you might
expect to find either in a popular or
semi-classical library.
The general plan of the series as
the publishers express it is simply “to
make available at the lowest possible
price established books in various
branches of literature”; and Mac-
millans are at pains to point out in
their accompanying brochure that the
firm is by no means a newcomer in
the paperback field; having, 75 years
POOR PADDOCKS
Again and again I regard the stones
And clenched tufts the paddocks hold
And am daily moving near the tones
That grass and stones have been told.
The lichened rock, coarsely round,
Lies bulged compact upon the light,
Sloughing through ages its outer
grounds,
Burning steadily into sight.
The tufts witness the love of rock,
The old dust sown to shrieks of joy,
Tawny streaks that sunlight locks
And wind's motion can employ.
The eye’s circuit rubs these sights
And notes the living the paddock owns,
Lichened rocks and grass whose rites
Grow thanksgiving in the bones.
Victoria.
Noel Macainsh.


My Years with Pavlova
H. ALGERANOFF
An intimate and vivid picture of Anna Pavlova
and that whole exciting period.
Illustrated
At all booksellers - - - 31/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
Now in Australia after phenomenal success overseas
THE MANDARINS
Simone de Beauvoir
Winner of the Prix Goncourt, this engrossing novel of intellectual Paris by
the brilliant wife of Jean-Paul Sartre is being widely acclaimed throughout
Australia. “Both as art and as social history it is a work of great
importance” —“Melbourne Age.” “Brilliantly written” —“The Bulletin.”
From all
Booksellers
COLLINS —PUBLISHERS
Ready
Now
LATEST READING
WATERMEN
By Eric Lambert, author of The Twenty
Thousand Thieves. The central figure
of this story is a man typical of post-war
Australia, whose tragedy and frustration
drive him to seek a new life as a Bass
Strait fisherman.
17/- (post lOd.)
PEYTON PLACE
By Grace Metalious. This big, richly
diverse novel—a sensational best-seller in
America, tells of the life in a small New
England town. Its people are presented
with vitality and character in the full
dimension of their lives.
20/- (post 1/2)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-05 Castlereasfh Street, Sydney. Tel.: 80363.
66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
ago, established a “People’s Edition”
series which began with “Tom Brown’s
Schooldays” and, before the First
World War, had expanded to over a
hundred titles: —
There are still people working in
St. Martin’s - street who can
remember piles of pale-blue paper-
backs that went overseas every week,
and they look forward to repeating
their experience with the St, Martin’s
Library.
If piles of bright crimson paperbacks
are now to come overseas —and, as far
as readers are concerned, the more of
these libraries the better—it’s to be
hoped that Macmillans include a few
Australian titles. From “Such Is Life”
to “The Pea Pickers” there is no dearth
of worth-while material, and it is a way
of introducing Australian literature to
a world-audience that evades much of
the risk of separate publication. Rolf
Boldrewood, incidentally, now in the
Oxford classics, was included amongst
Macmillans’ earlier paperbacks; but it
would be a pity if English publishers
should come to imagine that “Robbery
Under Arms” is the only good novel—
to say nothing of other branches of
literature—which this country has
produced.
Macmillans propose to publish
another twelve volumes in the series
later this year; and to continue it in
future “at a similar rate.” Prices of
the volumes vary according to size,
from 3s. (English) for “Three Plays” to
6s. for Bradley. The corresponding
Australian prices are stated at ss. for
the one and 10s. for the other—proof
enough of the need for paperbacks if
books are to be available at a
reasonable price.
Reviewed Briefly
Recent Pan and Fontana reprints
from Collins include The Problem of
Pain, by C. S. Lewis; the Confessions
of St. Augustine: Sea-wyf and Biscuit,
by J. M. Scott, and Cockleshell Heroes,
by C. L. Lucas Phillips.
* * * *
Murder at the Flea Club: Matthew
Head (Heinemann). This is the second
murder mystery by an American art-
expert, real name John Canaday. In
this book, where the narrator is running
an art-gallery in Paris, the author slides
very lightly over the art and concen-
trates on an American widow, out to
get her man, and her stepdaughter,
mysteriously not-quite-there, whom the
narrator is asked to take out and give
a good time, and who is found in
exceedingly compromising circum-
stances with a handsome young Italian.
This is in the same night-club where
the proprietress is found half-buried in
clay in a hole in the cellar-floor. The
story is very well told with the art
which conceals art
* * * *
The Litmore Snatch: Henry Wade
(Constable), Henry Wade is an ex-
chief constable who of all mystery-
writers really knows how Scotland
Yard and the British police-force
work. In this novel the son of a
provincial newspaper-proprietor crusad-
ing against illegal practices in
amusement-parks is kidnapped after
an evening show; the investigation is
presented from the point of view of
the police force, which turns its
spotlight on amusement-park pro-
prietors, a streetful of respectable kept-
women in a less-fashionable part of the
seaside-town, and even on the police
department itself—satisfying, as most
efficient work is inclined to be, if a
little dull.
Atoms for the World: Laura Fermi
(University of Chicago Press) The
story and background of the inter-
national conference on the peaceful
uses of atomic energy in Geneva in
1955—Mrs. Fermi is historian for the
Atomic Ener S' Commission. A use-
ful popular account of what was said
and done, surprisingly readable on two
counts—as a report of a conference
and a scientific survey. There are some
discreet glimpses of the Soviet
delegation,
Portrait of Greece: Lord Kinross and
Dimitri (Parrish). This large, hand-
some book, in the usual format of an
art-book, is made up of letterpress by
Lord Kinross, describing Greece past
and present, and 39 exceptionally
beautiful color-photographs, of scenery
and classic ruins, by Dimitri—
altogether a most informative and
attractive publication.


Another
Record Year
City Mutual policyholders benefit
directly from the most successful
year in the Society’s history. A
Record Surplus for 1956 of
£1,370,000 has made it possible
to again increase reserves sub-
stantially and to increase the
rates of bonuses for the fifth time
in six years.
Assets now exceed £35,000,000.
No
Shareholders
All profits belong to the Policyholders
SAVE INCOME TAX
Don’t pay away in income tax, money that could be
securing the assurance benefits you need. Remember,
you can pay up to £3OO yearly in premiums and
deduct it from your income tax return. By this means,
a proportion of your investment in assurance is
actually paid for you.
TO MEN OF PROPERTY
Who want their heirs to inherit it
How often do you hear of estates being sold to pay
death duties? It can happen to you. Death duties must
be paid in cash before your heirs can inherit.* The City
Mutual Life has a policy to provide this cash so that
your assets go unencumbered to your heirs. For further
information, write, ’phone or call the nearest office of
the Society.
The
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
Incorporated in N.S.W. iBjB
HEAD OFFICES:
N.S.W.: City Mutual Building, 60-66 Hunter Street, Sydney
Telephone: BW 2021
Q'land: City Mutual Building, 307 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telephone: FA 2371
W.A.: City Mutual Building, 62 St. George's Terrace, Perth
Telephone: BF 1451
Vic.: City Mutual Building, 459 Collins Street, Melbourne
Telephone: MB 2561
S.A.: City Mutual Building, 113 King William St., Adelaide
Telephone: LA 4831
Tas.: City Mutual Building, 22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
Telephone: B 2504
