

/
pifi
... .r-
Wm
e
6
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
THE END OF HILL END -pagb2
The Bulletin,” Vol. 78—No. 4018
Wednesday, February 13, 1957
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
No. 336: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
EDINBURGH'S CANONGATE PARISH CHURCH. CENTRE OF THE ROYAL MILE
A ROADWAY which has seen more history in Edinburgh than any other
is the one which runs in a straight line eastwards from the Castle to the
Palace of Holyroodhouse and which is known collectively as the Royal Mile.
It is composed of streets which bear such titles as Ihe Esplanade, Castle Hill,
Lawnmarket, High Street and Canongate. ~ . ,
For many years Canongate, which was formerly the fashionable residential
quarter near the Palace, was a separate burgh, having its own magistrates.
Until the time of the Reformation its inhabitants, who included the Dukes ot
Hamilton and Queensberry, the Earls of Breadalbane, Moray, Haddington
and Dalhousie, the Marquises of Huntly and Argyll and many others, were
proud of their proximity to the Court and looked down upon othci pails
of the city. Its importance was lost in the 17th century, and it ceased to have
a separate municipal existence in 1856. _ .-
This is a district which has memories of such varied characters as I ooias
Smollett, Sir Waite; Scott and his printer (James Ballantyne), David Hume
and Oliver Cromwell—who lived, while m Edinburgh, at. Moray House. From
its balcony the Earl of Argyll saw Montrose escorted up the Canongate to his
execution.
The 16th-century Canongate Toibooth. in the French style, with turrets and
projecting clock, is another feature of the district. At one time it contained
a jail, a courtroom and rooms for court officials; it now serves as one
of the City’s museums. . , , . , .
Adjoining the Toibooth is the Canongate Parish Church, which is shown
in the accompanying illustration. The church was built in 168 S and restored in
1947. In its churchyard is the monument raised by Robert Burns over the
grave of his friend Robert Ferguson, the poet. Here, too, are the graves
of Dugald Stewart and of Adam Smith, author of The Wealth’of Nations.
The church is also associated with Dr. Blair, the author of the famous
“Sermons,” which George 111 said were the best ever preached.
Near the foot of Canongate is the reconstructed White Horse Inn, a
famous hostelry dating from 1623, patronised by Burns, Sir Walter Scott,
Wordsworth and many other distinguished visitors.


IiOOKHUNTER, Rox 2671, G.P.0.. Sydney
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
\chime. Jet us find it for you—fiction, text book
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
('iSsiul.
The Red Page
THE END OF HILL END
A suitable subject for a Fulbright
research-scholarship to some deserv-
ing scholar of Rattlesnake, Mo. —every
other conceivable Australian subject
seemingly being pre-empted for
elucidation in the American language
—would be a thesis on the reasons why
Hill End’s ghost goldfield should
ittract the special attention of
authors and artists.
It is very much like a hundred other
derelict goldfields in Australia, save
that some of them are larger and more
ruinous and have more holes to fall
into. There are also select ones which
have more goats to fall over and more
beer to make the denizens —the
residents of ancient goldfields always
look like “denizens”—fall over them.
Yet there must be something
especially mesmeric about Hill End
beside the fact that it was magically
photographed by Merlin and that it
produced the largest nugget ever dug
up anywhere—the Holtermann slug,
which was 4ft. 4in. high and about 2ft.
wide, though not solid. It had a quaint
air about it which attracts artists. Even
the Sydney “Herald’s” art critic has
been there and painted a bit of it
according to the tenets of the Swiss
railway-station school.
Mr. Donald Friend has been there,
and has not only done some fine black-
and-white illustrations, but has written
a book called Hillendiana (Ure Smith).
This in particular advertises the pull of
the place, which must be strong beyond
the average of goldfields to ensnare and
bemuse one who has won a Blake Prize
for religious painting, acted in Africa
as the adviser to the Ogoga of Okere,
in New Guinea has earned a C.-in-C.’s
card for being a malarial guinea-pig,
exhibited his art with Walter Sickert
and Augustus John, and won an award
for the Australian ballet.
Mr. Friend lives at Hill End. Indeed,
he seems to be part of Hill End. His
work, which is said on the title-page
to comprise “vast numbers of facts and
a considerable amount of fiction
with the results of many years of
intensive and arduous historical
research and a commentary both
grave and ribald, accurate and untrust-
worthy” might be considered as part
of Hill End, too, It is the spectral part,
the echoes of the past which hang
suspended amid the smoke of bars, the
whoppers which have been echoing
round Hawkins Hill for nigh on eighty
years and the anecdotes which Hill
End pinched from the Californian
Forty-Niners and the Forty-Niners
pinched from either Noah or
Methusaleh.
There is a sufficiently authentic ring
about the little book with its strange
Merlin photographs and its dashing
black-and-whites to give it robust
vitality. Its reproductions of Gill’s
graphic sketches and of the comic
drawings ‘of contemporary life in
the “earlies” modelled on Dicky
Doyle and the forerunners of Du
Maurier carry the smell of rum, pug
and Chinaman about them. But they
could, for the most part, represent life
anywhere in the Roaring Days right
up to the age of the Dee Rush of 1903
and Kidston and Etheridge half-a-
dozen years later and thousands of
miles away.
As for the fabulous events of pioneer
life across the mountains and over
the rocky road to Tambaroora and
beyond the trials and tribulations of
Montey Ml they might be taken out
of Mr. Friend s slim volume and pasted
into the context of almost any mining
19K) ° f the a§C between 1851 an §
The same old brass band, the same
great “varieties” theatre with its
athletic thirsty danseuse, the same plug
of dynamite that got among Ah Foo’s
New Year fireworks, the same adver-
tisements for blood-mixtures, the same
old iron, St. Patrick’s Day and Battle
of. the Boyne celebrations with broths
of boys raring and tearing, the same
rude balladry, the same bushrangers,
tombstones with quaint inscriptions,
N.L.—very much N.L.—floats and the
same local eccentrics will be familiar
to all with yellow wash in their blood.
Some of the characters are different,
of course, from those who walked the
stage in other places. But generally
speaking any old digger withering
from nostalgia, whether he came from
Croydon or the Murchison or Ophir or
Baker’s Hill, can open up Mr. Friend’s
medley and feel himself at home if he
avoids the names, personal- and place-,
and substitutes his own home-town
equivalents for Tambaroora, The Root
Hog, Yowie Track and Johnson’s Hole.
Mr. Friend is not very strong on
history. He thinks that in the late
1840’s New South Wales was an
“impoverished, ill - governed penal
settlement in which a large part of
the population lived under threat of
lash and legiron.” Penal settlements
were out of fashion. The place was
pretty well governed for its time. The
convictry, save for ticket-of-leave men,
were virtually a thing of the past by
1848, though their effluvia and habits
remained and their class and its
offspring provided both some very
successful diggers and some less
fortunate though more advertised bush-
rangers like John Piesley and other
inhabitants of the Abercrombies and
the Warrumbungles, some of whom
became permanent residents of Cocka-
too Island, though some ended their
careers on the lower end of a taut
cord.
However, as a collector of legend
and an observer of character, Mr.
Friend excels, and if his work is as
casual as Hill End in its prime, that is
as it should be. What he has done
unwittingly has been to provide
undigested contents almost complete—
scene, characters, dialogue, plot,
historic background, atmosphere and
balladry—of a magnificent novel which
has yet to be written about some gold-
field as typical of them all as Hill End.
El V.
Poems by Lex Banning
Pleasantly printed by Edwards and
Shaw, Lex Banning’s Apocalypse in
Springtime consists of poems reprintec
for two small earlier books, with a
few later poems from “The Bulletin”
and other periodicals.
One of “The Bulletin” poems,
“Captain Arthur Phillip and the Birds,”
is likely enough to be Mr. Banning’s
anthology-piece, for it is a charming
and amusing thing, with something
very catchy about its refrain of
“copper-green Phillip”; and Phillip, of
course, is one of our national legends
The first stanza runs:—
Copper-green Phillip
with a beak like a hawk,
perches on his pedestal
and will not talk
to the stuttering starlings
fluttering around,
or the crumb-seeking pigeons
patterning the ground;
and though, daylong, •
bird calls to bird,
copper-green Phillip
says never a word.
But though this piece, being
impersonal and “Australian,” may be
the best to stand alone in anthologies,
it is not necessarily the best thing Mr.
Banning has written, nor is it altogether
typical of his style and outlook. The
typical poems are those where he
quotes a line or two from the masters,
or borrows their style, and thereupon
makes his own personal comment:
“Everyman His Own Hamlet,” for
example:—
Would be . . . Would be what?
Would be hero, lover, king.
Would be the only giant
within my Commonwealth.
Would . . . Would eat a crocodile:
most assuredly would eat a croco-
dile,
and then, perhaps, not boggle at a
whale.
Would be . . . Would be mad,
and very likely sent to England,
where, they say, all men are mad,
so madness goes unnoticed.
And once in England . . .
But then . . . But then, perhaps . . .
Perhaps would not be mad,
but only foolish, or else
uniquely mad in ways
unknown unto the English.
But still . . .
would into England.
It is a shrewd, small poetry, wasting
no words and lit with a wry wit.
Technically, both in the blank-verse
measures and the quatrains, it has an
unusual combination of freedom and
control, fluency and compactness, that
makes it very pleasing.
Mrs . Gladstone
When young Mr. Gladstone followed
the beautiful, jilted Catherine Glynne
round Italy, and she was getting usee
to the idea that she might be becoming
fond of him, he wrote to her from
Marseilles a letter, says Georgina
Battiscombe in her h ! , 3 ohy, Mrs.
Gladstone, the Portr . of l Marriage
(Constable), with ser; voces li s this:—
The truth here is elsev ere is
delicate and easily missed n this
side or on that; but true it and
I would say fearlessly that y may
feel it, you are already nr bene-
factress and I am your debtor for
pure and delightful recollections, for
an elevating intercourse in a period
which has the freshness of childhood
renewed, and for a hope which,
though it be slender, is dearer to me
beyond all comparison than any
other earthly object, if indeed I do
not do it injustice by placing it in
that class, for it has a higher aspect
(you may guess at my meaning if
you take the trouble to look at a
beautiful sonnet of Michael Angelo’s
near the commencement of his
volume to which I give you no other
guide) and which renders me happy
at this moment of return to the
place of cares, happy indeed by
comparison with what I might have
been.
Accepting Mr. Gladstone’s proposal
in spite of that, she went on to read
his newly-published “The State in Its
Relations with the Church,” “copying
out her favorite passages and even
endeavoring to learn some of them by
heart.” As Damon Runyon says of
the abasement of women in love, “I
wouldn’t have them otherwise”; but it
does seem a shame to take the money,
especially as this lovely aristocrat
(Gladstone’s money came from Trade)
had, with the easy gaiety of her class,
a better way with language than
Gladstone had—in fact, some claim to
being an inventor of language.
For she was the chief user of
Glynnese, the language of her family
circle, and people who think ■ they are
speaking fairly-modern slang when
they say some new circumstances
constitute “a break” are merely
quoting from “The Glynnese Glossary ”
very privately published by her brother-
in-law George Lyttleton in 1851; she
invented “killing,” “trapesing” and
other words that have passed into the
language; and whatever Gladstone said
on the hustings, it was merely “the
electionums” to his wife; while today’s
sayings, “out of this world” and “it’s
The End” were foreshadowed by
Catherine Gladstone’s “beyond”—
“Really, teaching Stephy is beyond.”
Then again, when Gladstone was cam-
paigning against the Turkish atrocities
in Bulgaria, his wife mentioned that
she was “brimful of Bulgaria,” and
besides the much-used termination in
“urns,” there was the superlative
termination in “issimus” “Tory-
issimus.”
You could hardly imagine a more
complete contrast; a marriage of
circumlocution and ellipsis. She could
make herself much clearer than he
could, but then he was one of the fore-
most examples of the maxim: “Speech
was given to men to conceal their
thoughts”; and a man-of-business
behind his screen of words—it was to
him that her family turned to pull their
fortune and estate out of the red.
She herself was a contradiction; an
unreliable correspondent, says Miss
Battiscombe, because she used to write
letters, address them and then throw
them on the floor, hoping that someone
would pick them up and have them
franked and posted; yet when she began
(no doubt in furtherance of “my old
man’s” career) to run an orphans’
home, and care for girls made destitute
by the cotton famine, and nurse people
through the cholera epidemic, and
open the first of all “Free Convalescent
Homes for the Poor,” she showed
herself a first-class organiser: it was-
she who returned a £5OO subscription
to one of her charities with a note
saying that she had asked for £looo—
got it.
In politics she could be direct, bold
and successful:—
My dear Sir James Graham, you
have always been so kind to me and
such a warm friend that I have the
less scruple in opening my heart to
you about my husband. Perhaps it
may not have struck you how very
deeply he would feel the kindness,
how much it would please him, if
you were to speak upon his Budget.
He does not know I am telling you
this. It is because I know you love
'him—l know you take a deep interest
in his career..,.
Sir John obliged. That was in 1861.
In 1880, when Mrs. Gladstone wanted
to get Mr. Gladstone out of his retire-
ment and back into office, she and her
daughter Mary wrote to her niece,
Lucy, who had married Lord Frederick
Cavendish, letters obviously intended
to be shown to Lord Hartingdon, and
of such diabolic ingenuity as to make
Hartingdon, who was quite capable of
governing England, feel that he should
make way for Gladstone’s return.
But there was one person with whom
Mrs. Gladstone could never ingratiate
her husband, and that was the Queen;
she herself was always welcomed, and
even made much of by the Widow of
Windsor, but her husband, who
addressed the Queen like a 'public
meeting and even had the impertinence
to try to coax her out of her mourning
for Albert—never.
Miss Battiscombe has. made a most
readable book of it; it is almost a
Victorian novel with its careful story
of the Gladstones’ eight children and
the eleven children of her sister who
married the (later) fourth Baron
Lyttleton, and the four children of her
brother Henry, the parson; and besides
being a brilliant portrait of a “wise
and witty” woman, it is a new and
pleasing view of Gladstone; to have
seen Gladstone’s fatherly pleasure over
the good examination-pass of one of
his sons must modify for most people
the picture of the dreadful old hater
of Strachey’s study of General Gordon.
Reviewed Briefly
The Demon of Noon: Gordon
Merrick (Hale). About an American
family, Stuart, Marthe and young son
Robbie, who believe that love should
be undemanding, perfect freedom the
ideal. Devoted to one another and
with enough funds to buy a tiny
peninsula in the South of France, they
seem set for happiness and fulfilment.
But, when the peninsula becomes a
fashionable resort and they become
rich, the basic frailty of their relation-
ship is revealed and the degeneration
of all three sets in. The author has a
light touch to describe the vagaries of
human nature and enough seriousness
of outlook to give the story meaning.
* * * *
The Lost Eagles: Ralph Graves
(Faber). “Quintilius Varus, give me
back my legions! Give back my golden
eagles!”—the cry of Augustus Caesar
after hearing of the terrible defeat of
the Romans by the Germans in the
year 9 A.D. gives the impulse to this
story of life in Imperial Rome and of
military campaigns in the strongholds
of the Germans. Severus Varus, cousin
of the defeated general, devotes his
life to recapturing the three Roman
eagles, symbols of power and honor,
for the sake of the family name and
for Rome. Vigor and precise know-
ledge, particularly of battles, forays
and hand-to-hand fighting, make this
an exciting and interesting story.
* * * *
Best S.F. Two: edited by Edmund
Crispin (Faber). The mysterious title
means the second volume of “best
science-fiction.” With robots, flying-
saucers, space-travel, time-travel and
“angel’s eggs.”


n M
mmsm
lilllllll
S
m
mmm
mm
l-t
m
i-t
mm
Ou
• ! ::- .
•-t
.■>-
<1
O
cn
a
p
IgH ~v
o
am
mmM
'''■.■ ■ •:': •- J ■: ■: .
i!
..
m
Q-
vv : ;- :
n>
i-t
cr
m
:•■
P
mm
n>
m
P
t
■ >* ;
sssf
Anthony Horderns
A. Regal Robe Case, rayon
lined. Carries 12frocks. £24/0/6.
B. Saddlehide Suiter—covered
steel frame, rustless locks,
carries 2 suits. At £l7/4/6.
and the man beside her in
Saddtehide
All the world’s a stage when “Our Fair Lady” travels with Regal’s Powder Blue Luggage from
Anthony Horderns’ —and jusb listen to the applause! Whether she’s travelling between
Town and Country—or Continents —she’s sure to have a full house watching- her Powder Blue
fashion luggage that’s “long-bound’’ and blue rayon lined! The results She’s seen with the
handsomest luggage in the world . . . luggage that resists scuffing, washes with soap and water!
He. of course, chose A.H.’s own “Saddlehide” —and packed up his travels the smart way.
This is the hide that’s coloured right through, a beautiful natural . . . the luggage that’s
fitted with English locks and clips . . . that guarantees quality and durability.
C. Gadabout by “Regal” -a useful case for essentials
or overnight use. New tapered shape. £lO/8/6.
E. “Saddlehide” Suit Case— inside packing straps,
rustless locks, 2 supporting straps. ( 24in., £l2/10/3;
26in. at £1.3/11/-; and 28in., priced at just £l4/12/-.
G. “Saddlehide” Framed Brief Case double
handles, steel frame, 3 compartments. Small, for
just £B/3/3; large, priced at only £B/12/3 each.
D. “Regal” Blouse Case —rounded corners, pocket
in lid, body, rayon lined, 22in., £l2/4/9; 25in.,
£l3/12/-; apd 28in., priced at only £l5/17/3.
F. “Saddlehide” Grip Bag —with wide opening for
easy access. Steel frame, rustless locks. Small,
£B/3/3; and large, priced at just £9/8/6.
H. “Regal” Hat Case. American-styled hat case,
matching in quality and design. Just £l2/13/9 each.
Initials in
’
gold included in any of this luggage


The Bulletin
Wednesday, February 13, 1957
Vol. 78—No. 4018
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings {opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
ECONOMIC HEALTH CONSULTANTS
SHORTLY after last year’s talks with his Economic
Advisory Committee, the Prime Minister produced
his “Little Budget.” How much this owed to the
committee, how much, to the “eight professors”
who a few weeks earlier had put out a recipe for
recovery which included several of the ingredients
of the “Little Budget,” and how much to Menzies
and Fadden and behind-the-scenes advisers, are
questions which even the chief participants would
find it hard to answer accurately. Menzies said
recently that last year’s committee had been
invaluable to the Government. That, of course,
could be taken two ways.
In explaining the necessity for a March supple-
mentary Budget last year the Prime Minister placed
the responsibility on two main factors—the deple-
tion of London funds through excessive imports
and the persistence of inflationary tendencies irt
Australia.
The Prime Minister emphasised that import-
restrictions were not a lasting .cure for our ills:—
To achieve economic health, we must, clearly,
ino'ease our output, or reduce our demand, or
both. An increase in national and individual
output' is clearly essential to the raising of the
material standards of living. What does increased
output mean and involve? The answer is—
greater productivity per unit.
He described attempts to increase productivity
as the positive approach to economic problems as
opposed to the negative one of restrictions, and
said that although increased productivity could not
give much in the way of immediate results its
importance must be constantly appreciated:—
We have not yet fully understood that rapidly
increasing population, industrial expansion,
adequate national defence, high and stable .
employment, just social services, and rising real
standards for the individual— to all of which we
are as a nation dedicated—cannot be simul-
taneously achieved without increasing skill, *
* organisation and effort. To put it quite clearly,
we cannot have increased development and
increased individual consumption without
increased individual production, saving and
investment.
As short-term measures to give immediate
relief he announced increased taxes “designed as far
as possible to reduce inflation.” These comprised
higher sales-tax on motor-vehicles and some less
essential goods; higher excise on liquor and
tobacco; increased company-tax “to impose a check
upon investment-spending which, though valuable,
is at present in total beyond the capacity of either
saving or borrowing to provide.” Finally, the
Government had given its approval to a rise in over-
draft rates to an average per cent.
Although most critics—except those speaking
for sectional interests—approved the Prime
Minister’s long-term diagnosis of the situation, there
was plenty of criticism of the short-term remedies
adopted. The chief points made were that the
Government, while admitting that there were"
limits to the rate of national development, had
made no effort to reduce the migrant-intake and
that although it had kept a' rein on the works-
programmes of State Governments, it had made no
attempt to reduce its own expenditure on works.
There was disquiet at the company-tax increase,
which slapped the deserving and undeserving
alike, and doubts whether the lift in the bank-
overdraft rate was either necessary or likely to be
effective. Criticism of the import-restrictions was
directed more against their administration than
their imposition.
In May the Prime Minister tabled a White
1 aper which elaborated his September and March
statements, but didn’t add much to the general
argument. b
... , Fil ] a L fig ? res * or financial year 1955-56
didnt fulfil the Prime Minister’s hopes , that the
external accounts would be in balance by the end
reduced them d -nP “ P sndon funds had
thltn L - to j? 55 mil,lon - Apparently deciding
that the immediate steps taken hadn’t been
immediate enough the Government made a further
iraporf-cut of £4O million, and when Treasurer
Fadden delivered his Budget speech at the end of
August he announced a 15 per cent, reduction in the
migrant target for the year—a cut by no means
sufficient to satisfy the Government back-benchers
and others who- had been urging a smaller intake.
Fadden admitted that progress had not been as good
as had been hoped for, but he refused to “join with
those who say that, unless we reduce our rate of
economic growth, we must resign ourselves to
chronic shortages of foreign exchange and perpetual
import-restrictions.” He felt that the measures
adopted were beginning to have an effect “to an
appreciable and increasing extent.”
The Treasury Bulletin released last week and
which has no doubt been studied closely by the
Prime Minister’s Economic Committee, together
with any later figures they could get, is more
encouraging than any such paper has been for a
long time. For the period July-December, 1956,
exports were well up in comparison with the same
term in 1955 and imports were substantially down.
This gave a favorable trade-balance of £9O million,
which, after freights and other invisible imports had
been deducted, left a credit of £ll million, com-
pared with a deficit of £ll5 million in the earlier
period. Loans and movements of private capital
added another £59 million, so that the over-
seas funds rose by £7O million for the half-year.
Wool and wheat shipments were both larger
than in 1955 and wool-prices were also higher; the
figures were helped somewhat by a carryover of
previous season’s wool, unshipped owing to the
shearers’ strike. The January trade figures showed
a further improvement in the reserves, and it may
be confidently expected that- the end of the financial
year will see us with a favorable trade-balance for
the first time in three years. This expectation will
no doubt give rise to an agitation for an easing of
restrictions and controls—a kite is already being
flown for the motor industry—and the Economic
Committee will probably give a lot of thought to
their recommendations in this regard.
But overseas funds are only one side of the
penny. Apart from bigger returns from primary
industry—for which those concerned can take only
part of the credit—there has been little sign of
increased productivity. Living-costs are still rising,
though the rate has been slowed down. Employ-
ment, by any sane measuring-stick, may still be
regarded as “full.” Both the number of houses
completed during the September quarter and the
number commenced were about 3000 lower than in
the same quarter of 1955 and the building-trade
and homeseekers are alike blaming credit-
restrictions. At the same time there was much
greater activity in the field of office- and factory-
construction, and the building-industry generally
employed 3500 more men in November, 1956, than
in November, 1955. Still, the housing problem is
one that can never be viewed solely from the
economic angle, and this thought will no doubt
influence both the Economic Committee and the
Government when considering possible variations
in banking policy.
Parliament and Its Problems
THE meeting of the Federal Parliament was to
have been celebrated with dancing and junketing
—it wasn’t specified whether rock-’n’-roll would be
included in the entertainment—but the programme
has been sobered down to something more sedate
in the way of a reception. •
Few would begrudge the legislators and their
growing clans, who descend on Canberra when
there is Occasion, a little champagne and terpsichore
if they were to show more zest for the jobs for
which they were sent to Parliament and a little more
capacity to cope with the facts of life.
It would be too much to expect in the routine
atmosphere into which Parliament and Government
has settled down that the coming session will be
marked by any more originality or fresh approaches
than the dreary ones that have gone before. It
needs no crystal-ball to limn its progress in advance
if it runs its course as usual. There will be the
same plethora of vague bills, amending or other-
wise, heatedly opposed by a distraught Opposition
and hastily pushed through with an air of
inevitability. There will be the same recess in
which Treasurer and Premiers will wrestle in a
combat reminiscent of Leichhardt Stadium, with the
results known before the debate begins, and propa-
ganda, political and malign, as the main' object
of the Dismal Jimmies from the States.
There will be the same pressures from outside
groups, the same elastic but unbreakable
the same spring scramble to combine business with
pleasure as the Budget is dropped like a stone into
the bucket. After this the departmental estimates
will whizz through the chamber of the House of
Reps, like greyhounds pursuing the Parliamentary
cat. It will be all cut and dried, routine and banal
and out of keeping with the teeming progress and
development going on away from what is called
“the centre of Government.”
One of the most striking features of Australian
national life is the Parliamentary lag behind com-
mercial and developmental trends. The Parliament
seemingly has to be dragged, pushed or beaten into
harness with anything that looks like an innovation
much less a revolution.
The present series of free-enterprise Govern-
ments, for instance, has been going along since
1949 proclaiming its credo at intervals without
implementing its sternly expressed determination to
abolish the Socialism of its predecessors. So far
from doing so, it has allowed the main civil-service
architects of Socialism installed by the Chifley-
Evatts to entrench themselves so that they can
hardly be uprooted.
The State Governments, in their turn, think
in terms of electoral bribes rather than expansion
—-piecemeal dam and flood-prevention projects
which keep 'employees in bulk in the places where
their votes will do most good for the party apart
from the buying of local support; urban develop-
ment .of transport and facilities with money for
which the rich, productive north is crying out as it
awaits communications, water and power.
Where these places are developed they are
mainly developed with overseas capital and enter-
prise eager to come in, while the local income, which
should be flowing through the pockets of private
enterprise into investment for development, is flow-
ing through the pockets of increasing thousands of
civil servants.
Everywhere as between the Commonwealth
and the States and the municipalities there are a
duplication and competition which is not always
furtive. Everywhere, too, apart from the battle of
the civil-service warlords and of the political parties,
there are waste and duplication and expensive busy-
bodying.
Any private bank which had to finance
an institution like the N.S.W. Government
would see it damned and out of business
if it didn’t do something to cure the ills of
bankrupt transport-systems. But systems like the
N.S.W. Railways and Tramways sink deeper and
deeper into the morass and into the clutches of the
unions, which now run them for the comfort and
benefit of the employees rather than for the needs
of passengers and in the interests of solvency. And
nobody seems really worried about it.
There is confusion in the public mind and in the
peahen press about defence, which is raked-over by
public-accounts committees and armchair critics.
Behind the scenes the inner coteries of armies of
civilians who run the routine of these departments
is always locked ia combat, and some branches seem
to be riddled with Leftist agitators.
The defence system, of course, is in the condi-
tion into which that of most smaller countries have
fallen as the guided-missile and electronic age
matures. All defence-systems are in the melting-
pot with an almost complete certainty that within a
very few years the divisions of Navy, Army and
Air Force will disappear and be replaced by a
unified control and command. Most military
authorities seem to recognise this, but the natural
instinct of self-preservation is apt to lead to a bitter
struggle for the retention of the existing divisions
of the forces.
Meanwhile, the Government appears to be
wandering in a wilderness of doubt and hesitation
which is not as real as it seems. This appearance
is alienating public opinion and developing
criticism for which the Government has nobody
to blame but itself. It seems unready as yet to
make the kind of clear statements of defence policy
and principle which emanated from the Horse
Guards and Washington from time to time. Its
attitude looks, from the outside, Micawberlike,
both at Ministerial level and at command level,
both Service and civilian, but it is fair to say that
there must be a distinct time-lag between point of
decision in Washington and London and in
Canberra.
It is not only the civil service and the Service-
commands which are reluctant to meet the new
conditions which call for combination, co-opera-
tion and integration ; but the Ministers themselves.
No country with so small a defensive force has so
many Ministers controlling half-closed-off yet over-
lapping compartments. But most of the gentlemen
responsible feel that the loss of a portfolio from the
Cabinet or Ministry is more important than
modernisation.
Parliament during its new session needs a
thoroughgoing and frank debate on the machinery
of defence and its relationship to the national
economy. This can be said without indulging in
the unthinking criticism of the Services and of
policy and actual administration which has been a
feature of the attacks of the more hysterical of the
daily papers.
Indeed, the whole fabric of Australian life as
touched by legislative functions needs an enlivening
review by Parliament. Parliament to do it properly
needs to be shaken from its torpor and freed of the
inhibitipns consistent with party-meeting regimen-
tation and the condition precedent that a Socialist
policy of meddling and competition and national
control shall continue with an ever-tightening grip
on industry.
It is, perhaps, too much to expect that we shall
get it. Politicians 'are still politicians, and the
thought of putting constructiveness and national
interests first would make some of them die of
fright.




PLAIN ENGLISH
A Helping White Hand
Charles McLean, a former chief-
magistrate in Melbourne, has compiled a
first-class report on aborigines in Victoria
from first-hand observation, research and
a notable ability to marshal facts ; and
Chief Secretary Rylah will give effect to
it in a bill in the coming session.
The McLean recommendations include
Government financial help for aborigines
who wish to join the Australian com-
munity ; a housing project for them in
areas where they can find work;
expansion of the Aborigines Protection
Board to include members of interested
Government departments and of the
natives themselves, and more active, full-
time Government officers to assist them.
Although McLean didn’t make the
point, all of his recommendations are
designed to make the aborigine in time
a full Australian citizen, living alongside
his white neighbor and not in settlements
outside the country towns as he now does
at Lake Tyers, or on rubbish-tips, as he
does at Mooroopna, or in squalor, as at
Dimboola, Antwerp and near Orbost.
Probably the best known of, these
settlements is at Lake Tyers, outside Lakes
Entrance, a popular summer resort for
both New South Wales and Victorian
holiday-makers. The natives are per-
mitted to visit the town only in certain
hours and are restricted in other ways.
McLean defends the management of the
Lake Tyers’ natives, and some of them
are notably difficult to handle ; but this
must be expected from any body of
people treated as pariahs.
McLean went to. all the dreary little
settlements on which he has reported and
personally investigated the slanders, as
well as the justifiable complaints, about
Black Brother. In each district he met
people of aboriginal descent who had
made considerable progress in their com-
munities ; and he was satisfied that there
were employers who cheated the natives
in paying for services, and, when they
left for better-paid work, decried them as
irresponsible.
McLean’s informants assured him that
aborigines often were good at seasonal
work, and, in the schools, teachers
reported that, although the top children
usually were white, the black and white
children differed little in their general
level of intelligence.
It seems clear that for years the
black youngsters, despite their aptitude at
school, have met such serious setbacks on
leaving it that a comparatively high pro-
portion have ended 'as dead-beats —
immoral, irresponsible gamblers. The
chief setback has been, and is, racial
discrimination.
Tourism—Fact and Fancy
CFrom “In the ACT”I
After the Prime Minister had warned
the delegates to the Pacific Area Travel
Association conference in Canberra that
Governments were one factor only in
the business of developing tourist trade,
and shouldn’t be asked for too much in
the way of funds, the Stanford (U.S.)
research institute came up with a report
which criticised the Australian Govern-
ment for offering no incentives to
domestic or overseas investors in hotels.
(The report was also critical of State
liquor laws which made breweries large
owners of hotels that concentrated more
on bar trade than on accommodation.)
Then a travel expert proposed, after the
Prime Minister had left the conference,
that the Commonwealth Government
should establish a national hotel credit-
scheme to provide long-term loans at low
interest to develop hotel-building.
Admittedly, Mr. Menzies had agreed'
that Australia had “an adverse trade-
balance” in the tourist business, with
Australians taking £22 million out of the
country each year, and with foreign
tourists bringing in only £6 million.
But he had then warned that
because tourism was a great industry
it shouldn’t be regarded as the sole
responsibility of any Government.
Imagination was needed, he said, and the
co-operative efforts of local authorities,
private industry, the great travel com-
panies and people like hotel- and
restaurant-owners.
The real lesson of the conference for
those Australians interested or likely to
be interested in fostering the tourist
industry was that capital had to be risked
and energetic steps taken to see that a
share in the large profits obtained all over
the world from travellers came to this
country. Ft was shown that more and
more ships and aircraft are crossing the
Pacific, and that there were excellent pros-
pects of far more tourists coming here if
the right kind of accommodation was
available, and if the prospective tourists
were enticed by the right sort of publicity.
Russia, Indonesia and Us
It is difficult to estimate whether the
stubborn belligerence of Indonesia or the
instability of that nation is the greater
danger to this country.
There is no immediate risk of the
seizure of West New Guinea by the
present regime, which is unable to hold
on to what it has got, let alone grab
territory from the Dutch. But the matter
has becomes a plaything of Moscow,
which advocates Indonesian claims.
The Russian support of Indonesian
claims, plus a sudden demand for the
independence of Australian New Guinea,
points the direction of Russian thinking.
The Communists are the only really
hard-cored party free of dissensions in
Indonesia. Their organisation there is
comparable with that of the Communist
party in Australia, which helped to
mould and organise it during World War
II when the most notorious of the Javan
Reds were free and honored guests in
the Commonwealth. The linkage between
the Australian and Indonesian Com-
munist parties was very close for a
generation and still probably is, though
few people give the fact a thought.
No doubt every effort is being made
by the C.P. in Djakarta to bring about
the ruin both of the existing Government,
which has earned the dislike of the Army,
because it has been Red-anted,' and
equally of those opposed to it.
It is an old game with unstable
dictatorships, and the emphasis from an
Australian viewpoint is on the instability
in a situation which needs the closest
watching. Behind the scenes in Indonesia
there seems to be a conflict of external
interests, Russians and, perhaps, as in the
Middle East, U.S. oil interests acting as
jockeys to • local movements with one
eye on the West New Guinea oil area.
The Russians’ hand can be seen clearly.
With a large submarine base in the
Antarctic, with New Guinea “free” under
Communist influence, with Indonesia part
of a Red bloc, our position would be
unhappy.
At this stage a good many observers
might look on the possibility of the
Russian plan succeeding as fantastic and
rather a joke. They are the same sort of
people who treated the Communist party
in Australia as a good joke early in the
1920’5.
It turned out a kind of joke which has
cost Australia tens of millions of pounds
a year at various stages of our history.
Yemen
(From “Abdul Assiz”]
The Sheikdom of Yemen, self-elevated to
a kingdom in 1937, consists of an area of
about 75,000 square miles, of which about
half is sheer desert bordering on the
notorious Rub’ al Khali. The population
is claimed to be 3,500,000, but may be
half-a-million more or half-a-million less.
All its landward boundaries are uncer-
tain. The practical frontier to the south-
east, apart from a small surveyed length
from the coast just north of Perim,
depends on where the occasional rains
fall and on whether a Yemeni or an Aden
tribe of nomad Arabs get there first,
with their underfed camels and goats, to
despoil the nascent pasture. When both
get there at the same time, the result is a
few bruised heads, much argument and —
very rarely—a dead Arab. *
If such encroachment and physical
damage becomes too marked on either
side, British-led forces have been in the
habit of intervening to prevent an exten-
sion of the flare-up. To describe such
forays—which have been going on ever
since Aden was made a British base—as
war is an abuse of English.
A treaty, signed at Sana’ in 1934 be-
tween the imam of Yemen and the British
Government, very foolishly recognised as
status quo ante the Aden-Yemen
boundary. That, of course, meant less
than nothing to the Yemeni, and the
British forces have been charged with
violation of the frontier ever since.
The late Jbn Sa’ud adopted the same
tactics with reference to the Jordan-Saudi
Arabian frontier, but Glubb Pasha (B.
11/4/’56), who knew his Arab, soon put
an end to that little game. Like the
Saudi Arabian army, that of Yemen
belongs to the comic-opera species of
soldiery, but —with Nasser and his Soviet
friends in the background—it could
assume a high nuisance value. The United
States is unlikely to intervene, as the pros-
pects of good oil in Yemen and in the
adjacent Aden Protectorate are not
attractive.
Yemen is a theocracy, ruled by a
priest who has adopted the style of
“king” since 1937. In addition, the
country supports an “aristocracy” of
Sayyids (who claim to be descendants of
the Prophet). To them, the rightness or
wrongness of any action depends on
whether or not the act can be justified by
a quotation from the Koran; such justi-
fication —irrespective of the sin—can be
obtained from professional interpreters in
Cairo at a cost dependent on the standing
of the applicant and of the grossness
(from the Muslim point of view) of the
sin.
It is understandable, therefore, that the
Yemeni—with rare exceptions— : are not
notable for outstanding morality of any
description, although they possess the
virtue of producing excellent coffee.
In days of more robust politics, the
Yemini problem might have quickly been
solved by a battalion of Turks led by
Glubb Pasha with authority to take sum-
mary action.
.....
The Soviet in the Antarctic
[From “Mugga Way”]
The Soviet has established some big
bases in Australian territory in Ant-
arctica, and will soon use Perth as a
staging-point for flight to and from
Moscow; and the Russian scientists are
using a remarkable variety of equipment
for wide-scale oceanography work which
will give them a picture of the seabed
in the Southern Ocean. Suggestions have
been published that Russia, which doesn’t
recognise the Australian claims to
sovereignty over a third of the Antarctic
continent, may decline to vacate the
bases after the close of the International
Geophysical Year in December, 1958.
Russia is in the Antarctic as a result
of an offer by External Affairs Minister
R. G. Casey to make facilities available
to any nation desiring to carry out work
there in connection with the International
Geophysical Year. It was not asked for
any undertaking that it would leave the
bases, and has offered none. It has been
suggested that they may later be used, if
Russia decides to stay, for intercontin-
ental planes travelling non-stop between
the Soviet and the Antarctic. They are
within 2000 miles of Australia, and could
command the sea-routes around the Cape
of Good Hope and Cape Horn, both of
major importance if the Suez and
Panama canals are closed by war or other
action.
Submarine-bases in the area, with
nuclear subs, carrying nuclear weapons,
could also menace the world’s sea-routes.
The Australian Government hasn’t
acknowledged any of these possibilities,
and has given no official indication of
any concern that Russia may take
advantage of our present hospitality.
At the same time there has been no
reaction in Canberra, except indifference,
to unofficial Russian approaches for
restoration of normal diplomatic
relations, broken off at the time of the
Petrov defection nearly three years ago.
Productivity-index Problem
On top of the appointment of a standing
committee on productivity (B. 2/1 /’57)
came the summer school of the Institute
of Political Science which concentrated
on productivity and progress, and state-
ments by Albert Monk, of the A.C.T.U.,
and Latham Withall, of the Associated
Chambers of Manufactures, both urg-
ing establishment in this country of a
“productivity index.” It was mentioned
that other countries had indexes, and
suggested that the Commonwealth
Statistician was the man to issue one for
Australia.
From time to time the Acting Statis-
tician has indicated that he is examining
the problem. The fact that no further
announcement has been forthcoming
suggests that the matter is not as simple
as it sounds, and that the Bureau of
Statistics considers that no index is
preferable to one which might be mis-
leading.
Investigation shows, in fact, that by
and large no country has a productivity
index, although they have records
loosely referred to in that way. There
are statements of “output per head,”
although the term “output” is indefinite,
and so is the term “per head.” Indexes
have been based on output of
major products, but even these can be
challenged as inexact.
Many of those proposing the index
are obviously thinking merely of whether
production is rising and at what rate,
so that it can be increased. Various
submissions, have been made tb the
Federal Arbitration Court on the subject
in recent years, and the court is well
aware of the limitations of the data now
in its possession. It has, in fact, referred
to the matter in some recent judgments.
■ —* i —-
Picking Up the Pieces
[By “Ek Bum”]
The point seems to have been reached
when the initiative in healing the
breach between Britain, France and the
United States has been transferred to
Washington.
The revelation that the U.S. did, in
fact, know of British-French intentions
as to Suez, which has leaked out, has not
helped Washington to maintain its self-
righteous stand. Nor have the sensa-
tional allegations, made by a U.S.
Senator, about Aramco’s activities in
French North Africa. ,
King Saud goes back home with an
armful of American aid and weapons,
but the Middle East situation continues
awkward for everybody with the in-
sistence of Israel that it will vacate the
Gaza strip and the commanding Egyptian-
seized islands at the mouth of the Gulf
of Akaba only on terms acceptable to
itself. In this respect various elements
have combined to dig away the ground
from under Nasser’s feet.
The clearing-work on the Suez Canal
has proved how untruthful was his
charge that the blockage was due to
British and French bombing. It has
become obvious that the preparations
must have been carefully planned long
in advance and that none of it was the
result of air action.
The United States is becoming very
tired of Nasser’s airs as a conqueror and
his laying-down of the law as to what
can or cannot take place in his “sovereign
State.” Even the Americans have come to
admit (rather much to their own astonish-
ment) that Egypt would probably be in
W. E. Fitz Henry
[From J. E. Webb]
“Bill Fitz Henry dead!” Towards the
end of last week this thought was in the
minds of hundreds, thousands of writers
and artists ; and to one and all, from
Dame Mary Gilmore, in years his oldest
friend, to the latest recruit to the black-
and-white brotherhood, it brought grate-
ful memories of good companionship,
steady encouragement and help where
help was needed, and a sense of personal
loss.
No Australian has ever had a larger
body of literary acquaintances, and
when success came the way of novelist or
poet Fitz Henry rejoiced in his quiet
fashion. But to those who were struggling
he was always the guide, philosopher and
friend.
“Bill” to publishers, librarians and the
like, as well as to the host of Bulletin
contributors, Fitz Henry was always
“Willie” to old-stagers on the staff. They
saw in him a certain boyishness which he
retained to the end, though it was never
of the boisterous kind.
My own acquaintance with him began
in 1920, when Willie, already three years
on the paper, was approaching manhood.
Short of stature and sparing of words, he
gazed critically at the newcomer, who had
been unwisely introduced as the Wild
Man from the West, obviously telling
himself that if the mild-looking specimen
facing him was the best the West could
do in the way of wild men it must be over-
rated. But once he was convinced that
the stranger wouldn’t let the Bulletin
down, Willie thawed, and we became the
best of friends.
In the line of office duty, Fitz Henry
was secretary to three Bulletin editors,
and no editor ever had a better one. He
could be trusted to do anything that came
within the compass of his job, from con-
ciliating a caller who had to be turned
away, perhaps because the paper was
going to press, to looking up a needed
reference, however difficult the task —a
knack placed at the service not only of
the chief and his associates but of count-
less contributors, no matter how remote
or obscure. And he had an astonishing
memory, particularly for racy events in
the lives of those who have figured in
the Australian literature of his time.
Recognition of this fact led to his being
granted a Commonwealth fellowship so
that the unequalled lore he had accumu-
lated might be preserved in a book. He
was not destined to see it published.
Like all healthy-minded men who have
led full lives, Fitz Henry was not given
to harboring vain regrets or musing on
the manner of his passing. He died at
his desk, in the office which, from boy to
man, he had served for forty, years ; and
that is how he would have wished to die.
(Continued on next page)


the hands of the Israelis if the British and
French had not interposed themselves
between the combatants just in time to
save Nasser and his gunmen from
destruction.
A new Canadian attitude is helping
Washington to make up its mind —a
policy of impatience which led Mr. St.
Laurent, the Canadian Prime Minister,
to burst out in Ottawa in the House of
Commons on February 1 with a remark
that if the Egyptians resisted the taking-
over by U.N. forces of the areas from
which the Israelis had been ordered to
withdraw, “the only alternative would be
a resumption of hostilities.”
The tangible results have been quickly
demonstrated. To use Mr. Paul
Hasluck’s well-remembered phrase about
another person who was confident that
he could run the world, Mr. Dulles and
Mr. Eisenhower seemed to have “changed
their plumage in mid-flight, ’ and the
“Eisenhower doctrine” which was sup-
posed to have been the emanation of
American genius was metamorphosed
almost in a moment into a world affair,
with the driving-plant established in
London rather than in Washington or
New York. .
It seems clear that world war, if it
comes, must be an atomic war, and
though the United States has so far
promised to supply atomic weapons and
missiles, it now has to nerve itself as well
to amend its laws to provide either atomic
war-heads for those who cannot make
them or the know-how for them.
The British, through Mr. Sandys, have
discussed these matters, and they have
discussed with the Canadians the whole
question of co-ordinated weapon-research
and the reduction of British forces, partly
because of the new methods and expected
rationalisation of world effort and partly
because the British forces are being
carried at an inflated level to which they
were raised during the Korean war.
Meanwhile the U.K.-U.S. entente
cordiale has been building up in a new
atmosphere of cordiality. The old era
may have been said to have ended when
Mr. Eisenhower made a remarkable
announcement which embodied praise of
Mr. Dulles so extravagant that it was in
itself almost an invitation to those who
heard it not to take it too seriously.
The adulation was seamed with an
admission that Mr. Dulles had made
“mistakes,” and with some references
to the “real difficulties” caused by the
withdrawal of French troops involved in
Nato defence and the possible or probable
withdrawal of British troops on the
European continent. But with this went
the assurance that understanding as
between the affected Powers* was “grow-
ing at a far greater rate than appears on
the surface.”
The next day Mr. Macmillan and
Mr. Aldrich, the retiring American
Ambassador, swopped compliments at a
Pilgrims’ dinner in London. First
there was a message from President
Eisenhower, sending greetings referring
to “the traditional Anglo-U.S. alliance”
and “the abiding strength of the partner-
ship between our two countries.”
Then the Prime Minister declared that
“the special character of Anglo-American
relations something that is fundamental
—and perhaps in history unique one
that must be continuously and con-
stantly fostered and that must be, and
be seen to be, effective when the test
comes. The life of the free world
depends upon the partnership between
us.”
Mr. Aldrich made the handsome
admission, startling after the innuendoes
of colonialism and self-interest so preva-
lent in Washington, that the United States
now recognised that “as a matter of stark
necessity, it has become the prime
purpose of your policy to prevent
Communism from taking over the Middle
East,” and he begged the English to
“recognise that the purpose«of the United
States policy” is “identical with yours
to prevent the Soviet Union from
securing a stranglehold on the oil-supplies
and the lifeline of trade through that
area'.”
Moreover, Mr. Aldrich delivered him-
self of this passage:
As Car as I can make out, there, is no
resentment in the United States against
the action which "was taken by Great.
Britain [over Suez]. It seems to he very'
well understood in our country. It. is our
action that has been misunderstood here
I think we must start by recognising
that there were faults on both sides
Get us nut recriminations behind us and
look ahead. Uet us seek to construct a
partnership that cannot again be betrayed
by the shock of events.
Nobody in America seems to have
mentioned “colonialism” in a week.
Indeed, it seems to be ironically true that
President Eisenhower meditates meeting
Mr. Macmillan on British soil. Indeed,
in a British colony—Bermuda. *
POLITICAL POINTS
Foster Dulles is due to visit Australia
next month. Still, you never know.
Sinatra turned back.
® •
Percy Spender is to be nominated as a
candidate for the International Court of
Justice, an £BOOO-a-year post with .a nine-
year tenure. A few years ago Dr. Evatt
was being spoken of as an aspirant for a
seat on the International Court. Many
of his loyal followers are wishing he’d
got the job.
© ®
Campaigning in the Burwood (N.S.W.)
by-election hasn’t produced any fireworks.
Labor didn’t nominate a candidate, but
J. A. Cunningham is running as an
Independent Labor man. The arrange-
ment probably suits Cahill. In th e
unlikely event of Cunningham winning
the seat he can be accepted into the
family; yet his defeat can be glossed-
over as something that doesn’t affect the
Cahill Government. On the hustings
Cunningham has been slating Cahill for
getting out-of-touch with the Labor
movement, the Democratic Labor party
for being “leeches” and the Menzies-
Fadden Government for seeking an
“unemployment-pool.” If elected he s
going to “demand”- 3 per cent, loans for
housing. To give Joe his due, he thought
of that one long ago, but he hasn’t got the
money yet. Cunningham doesn’t say
where he intends to get it.
Opposition-leader Morton has spoken
at several of Liberal Ben Doig’s meet-
ings, but Cahill hasn’t been seen in the
district except to open a drive-in bank.
With two other Independents, Selden and
Spensley, in the field the issue could
depend on preferences, but Doig seems
set to be the new M.L.A.
© «
News that the Gold Coast was to
become an independent Dominion on
March 6 caused a mild stir in Brisbane
until it was explained that it was the
African Gold Coast* not the Queensland
one that was involved. The Duchess of
Kent will represent the Queen at the
opening of the first Parliament of- the
new Dominion, henceforth to be known
as Ghana.
Nationalisation is still the Miners'
Federation favorite remedy for all the
problems of the coal industry. A deputa-
tion put the proposal to the N. S. Wales
Mines Minister for the umpteenth time
on Friday. Nationalisation is a plank of
the Labor platform, but the Cahills
shudder at the thought of becoming pit-
ponies for the Miners’ Federation. Mines
Minister Nott diplomatically told the
federation that the State Government
had the power to nationalise the mines
but lacked the dough needed for the
take-over ; the Federal Government had
the money, but not the Constitutional
power.
Other proposals put to the Minister
included a request for a 35-hour week;
Federal arid State action to prevent
further conversion from coal to oil;
closing of most openduts; a tariff on
imports of fuel-oil. All these proposals
are negative in their approach. The only
positive suggestion was a request for
something to be done about establishing
a plant to win chemicals from coal, and
that is a proposition the Coal Board has
been examining for some time, so far
with only discouraging results. Nott
promised to put the proposals before
Cabinet.
« (© V
There is some belief in Canberra that
the solidarity of tjie Afro-Asian bloc in
support of Egypt may have been shaken
by the Indian annexation of Kashmir.
Australian advocacy of the Israeli cause
has been largely directed at the
“Bandung nations,’ and it is thought that
the tacit acceptance by many of those
nations of Indian moral leadership may
now cea»3 —although there is little real
hope of any diminution of Arab hostility
to Israel. It is suggested that Nehru acted
because he felt that acceptance of the
U.N. plan would involve his defeat in
the coming elections, presenting the Com-
munists with a rallying point against him.
However, his prestige must have suffered
from the move and the consequences
could be far-reaching.
' Questioner at the Prime Minister s
press interview: “Have you any com-
ments, sir, on the selected design of the
Sydney Opera House?” Menzies: ‘1 ve
enough troubles of my own.
• •
As moves are .made by the Anti-
Communist Labor party and the
Democratic Labor party for co-operation,
and there are even talks in certain circles
of a future merger, the Parliamentary
committee on the Constitution has not
been inactive on the subject of Senate
elections. The prospect of a small group
holding the balance of power in that
Chamber is abhorrent to both the Govern-
ment and the official Opposition, and
steps m'ay be expected to render such a
possibility more unlikely 'than it would
be under the present system. Whatever
the future of the Labor splinter-groups,
however, it is believed by Canberra
observers that Dr. Evatt, in spite of many
near-miraculous recoveries in the past,
cannot be carried much longer if the
Opposition hopes ever again to make any
electoral impact.
• ft
Security measures for the Seato con-
ference in Canberra from March 11 to
13 may exceed those for Royal visits. All
THE BALKED BEE
of the eight member Governments will
be represented, mostly by Ministers and
Chiefs-of-Staff, and the secretary-general
of this annual conference, the third,
A. R. Cutler, V.C., is up to his ears in
arrangements. The 250 visitors may
include Foster Dulles and Selwyn Lloyd,
and there will also be about 60 foreign
journalists, in addition to the normal
Canberra complement for big events.
The military advisers will have a pre-
liminary meeting in the Senate Chamber
on March 8 and 9, and the Foreign
Ministers’ conference will be in the
Representatives Chamber on March 11,
12 and 13. The opening and closing of
the latter conference may be open to the
press, but the general public will not be
admitted. All available accommodation
in four Canberra hotels has been booked,
so private visitors to the capital will have
a thin time if they arrive in that period.
1 » m
The dictum that it is the duty of the
Opposition to oppose was exemplified
in Cain’s reaction to Bolte’s complaint
that city people waste watei. Bolte
asked, “How many city people always
use the basin-plug when they wash their
hands?” and said that “if country people
used water in the same way as city
dwellers they would have lun local
storages dry a month ago. Cain sprang
valiantly to the defence of city folk. He
ddubted whether they wantonly wasted
water. The truth was that the demand
for water had outstripped the supply. He
didn’t reply to the basin-plug question.
Possibly he’s conducting a survey into
the bathroom habits of Northcote.
Discussions on the role of the Depart-
ment of Trade, especially in its import-
licensing activities, make the figures of
its staff pertinent. It now has 626 officials,
including 236 transferred from the former
Department of Commerce and Agricul-
ture, 107 from the industrial-development
division of National Development, 195
from the Customs department (for the
import-licensing branch), and 75 from
Customs or other branches. The last
Budget estimate of salaries for the depart-
ment was £735,000. It’ll be interesting
to see how far this falls short of the
final figure.
• «
N. S. Wales train-fares were increased
steeply a few months ago. Now the
metropolitan rail-services are to be
reduced. The move is designed, says the
commissioner, to help put railway
finances on a sounder basis. Pdssibly the
idea is to reduce the services pro-
gressively till all running cbsts are
eliminated. Then all fares collected would
be clear profit.
• ©
Reports of the discovery of large iron-
ore deposits about 250 miles from Port
Augusta on the East-West railway have
been confirmed by Premier Playford in
the S.A. Assembly. Samples have assayed
60 per* cent, iron, but Playford is cagey
on the probable extent of the field and
the possibility of utilising it. Private
interests are talking in terms of hundreds
of millions of tons', but the Premier won’t
say much more till the Mines Department
has tested the deposits by diamond-
drilling. Nearest township is Tarcoola,
the scene fifty years ago of a mild
goldmining boom.
Why do decimal-coinage advocates
always insist on inventing names for their
coins? The latest plan talks of cents,
dekos and australs. Wouldn't it work
just as well with new-style pennies,
shillings and —er —just what do we call a
tefi-bob note?
o o
The A.W.U. becomes the first trade-
union to give financial help to nuclear re-
search in Australia. Last week it decided
to become a member of the Sydney
University Nuclear Research Foundation,
thus committing itself to an annual con-
tribution of £2OOO towards the woik ol
the foundation. This practical demon-
stration 'of interest contrasts with the
attitude of some other unions whose sole
reaction to the subject, is a monotonous
squawk, “Ban the atom-bomb.
« «•
Reported that the joint Parliamentary
committee on Constitutional amendments
has reached so great a measure of agree-
ment that a referendum within a year
is a possibility. Government and Oppo-
sition members are said to be agreed that
Federal powers should be sought over
inter-State and perhaps intra-State trans-
port (which would include air services
and railways), and internal maiketing.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
A PRESS-REPORT claims that roosters
can be rendered more succu-
lent by inserting tablets of female
hormone, synthetic stibestrol, in their
necks. The report adds that care must
be taken to decapitate the cockerels well
below the neck ; should any of the tablet
remain in the bird and be eaten by a male
—and in my experience it is the male
who gets the neck of the chicken —said
male is apt to display some strange
symptoms. In future if you see me
ordering Chicken Maryland you can call
me Alice in Wonderland. —“Cash Count.”
❖ *X* ❖
“J.J.A.”: The painter mixed paint all
day but couldn’t get the Hollywood blue
demanded by the Housing Commission.
“That’s a nice shade,” remarked the H.C.
inspector, pointing to one of the rejected
shades of blue; “I rather like it. Paint
the block that color —that’s Hollywood
blue from now on.”
❖ v ❖
‘Tim”: Shades of all the blessed Saints!
Low’s sketch of Papal Delegate Cerretti
(B. 23/1/’57) says he is. blessing the
artist. Never, never with the left hand!
Only a one-armed priest would do that.
“Doric”: lam always pleased when a
person'of average means wins first prize
in a lottery, even though I have missed
out a prize of any kind for myself (as
I always do), but what got me mad was
when a recent winner in my lottery was
a Sydney near-millionaire, to whom
£12,000 would be a drop in the ocean.
Have always wondered why these people
bother to buy tickets.
t
O O
“Agricpla”: Our judge dropped in for
a hurried haircut. He was embarrassed
to find ,the barber one of his former
clients and was somewhat discomposed
when Snipper said, “Want the works
proper, eh?” . Several of us reassured
the legal one that the “works proper”
meant haircut, eyebrow- and ear-trim.
+:+ • * ❖
“Tom Trout”: Ralph Richardson,
writing a knightly commentary on the
Antipodes, confesses: “A lot of things
astonished us in Australia” . notably,
the amount of “splendid tea” he was
expected to consume at functions, where
European experiences led him to expect
(and prefer) a whisky-and-soda ; and the
snarking of infants-in-arms at the very
adult plays he appeared in. The Aus-
tralian stage has had greater astonish-
ments to offer. I remember when Peter
Finch, barnstorming the schools with
.Moliere, was set, upon by an irate critic
from the audience —a small dog wffo
disapproved of the Gallic verve Mr.
Finch was exhibiting.
♦> ♦>
“V.X.”: First heard the G.-G. talk to
Australians at- Bangkok when we were
released from Nippon. He talked sense,
reminding us that the atom-bomb was
not the cause of our release but that the
Allies had whipped Nippon in Burma. He
seemed like an Aussie (a Queenslander).
Last heard him from 3LO (on Australia
Day) and feel he is one of the most prac-
tical speakers I have heard. The G.-G.
was a ranker in the British Army, and
what a credit to the land of his birth.
Hope he stays here when his term expires.
O 0* o
“Wandana”: A Launceston estate-
agent has received a letter posted more
than three months ag6 by a firm of
solicitors 500yds. away. ;
snail-mail!
% ♦♦♦
“Talon”: Can evolution have pro-
ceeded so rapidly since my pre-war visit
to Taronga Park Zoo? I was able to
identify the Juffa described by my four-
year-old returning from his maiden trip,
"Just where are you going, young lady-to bed or to a ball ?”
mainly by its wong-wong neck. Neither
the Taneroo nor the baby Tweal was diffi-
cult to visualise, but what combination
of genes could produce an animal capable
of quickling up a tree and for Heaven’s
sake what is a Noc-Noc?
“Lorna Doone”: I’d been an interested
spectator at a display of the new short
nighties, frilly panties, in fact the whole
gamut of milady’s dainties. I’m all for a
little bit of lace ; even if it doesn’t show
it makes you feel good underneath. And
I thought of my brother-in-law, who,
seeing my sister making a purely
utilitarian nightie, said aggrievedly,
“When we were first married you had
lace on everything.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Stromlo”: There has been a stir in
Buddhist circles because of the refusal of
the Ven. H. Sri Sumana Revata, Nayake
Thero of the Atamasthana, to allow the
former Prime Minister of Burma, U Nu,
to place his head on the,sacred Bo Tree
at Anuradhapura, Ceylon, in spite of the
request by the Ceylonese Prime Minister,
Mr. S. W. R. D. Bandaranaike. Sri
Sumana Revata explained that neither he
himself nor any member of the Sangha
ever touched the Tree, whose holy foot
was surrounded by brass plat'es to make
it inaccessible. But U Nu was allowed
to water the sacred Bo Tree from a place
reserved for the members of the Maha
Sangha and royalty.
♦I-* ❖ ♦>
“Wester”: How much for an air-mail
letter to U.S.? My brand-new p.0.-guide
will tell me. Consult same at length,
poring over complicated index and con-
tents. Defeat. Enlist aid of family—
one junior-pass, one scholarship, one
housewife —still nothing. ■ Reluctantly
ring the postmaster; very considerate.
“Ah, yes, 2s. Sorry, not in the Guide.
In separate green leaflet. Put your name
down?” An endless chain of guides,
leaflets rolls out in my mind. I should
have known. “No, no,” I reply sadly,
“I’ll just ring you up.”
♦t* *:• ♦>
“Pip Tok”: Bad luck has again
smitten the concrete pillar set up by the
York (W.A.) Road Board to mark where
the Queen halted for a bush-picnic tea
on her way back from York to Perth.
The pillar, when erected, had a bronze
plaque which stated “Her Majesty Queen
Elizabeth partook of refreshments at this
site on the evening of March 31, 1954.”
Ratepayers and others criticised the
stilted phrasing. The plaque was removed
by vandals and never replaced. Now a
bulldozer used by a road-gang has
bumped into the pillar, knocked a piece
off the top," and given the remainder a
Pisa-tower-like lean, only more so. The
Road Board has not yet decided what to
do about it.
“Rimutuka”: A Brisbane department-
store draped a big window and all goods
therein with crisp, new £l-notes —250
of ’em and all the real McCoy. But a
thrown brick enabled some thoughtful
citizens to anticipate the savings sug-
gested by the display to the extent of
£l3. Evidently thieves are superstitious
—one note was tossed back to the floor
of the display. The remaining dozen are
still on appro. **"~
*l* ♦♦♦.
“Bo”: Bride had returned to work
after the honeymoon, and on the second
day back was delayed at the office for
about 20 minutes. As she turned the
corner near their flat she nearly bumped
into her adored* as he tore along, wild-
eyed, clutching in his hand her photo.
He swept her to him fiercely ; then, when
she got her breath back, she asked him
why he bore the photo along with such a
distracted air. “Well,” he said,- “I was
on my way down to the police-station
to report you missing!”
“S.M.S.”: As I not long ago celebrated
my twenty-first birthday I have become
very age-conscious and study the mirror
anxiously for signs of grey hairs,
wrinkles, etc. Until recently the shop-
assistants where my mother has an
account had asked, “Daughter purchas-
ing?” Now, when charging an article, I
give the name and address as “Mrs.
S Some say “Self purchasing?”
Some of .the pigs don’t even ask!
“O’Johnno”: In a book dated 1850
I happened on particulars of mail in
Van Diemen’s Land. Letters addressed
to the Lieutenant-Governor, or tiie
private secretary, whether marked “on
public service” or not, were allowed
through the post-office “free of all
postage whatever” ; and there Was a long
list of public officers authorised to frank
and receive letters and packets free of
all charge. The Commissariat Depart-
ment paid to the local Government £l5OO
a year for the privilege of franking and
receiving all letters addressed to any of
the principal officers in. the military,
commissariat, ordnance and convict
departments ; the list included account-
ants, medical officers, road-superinten-
dents, police-magistrates, certain clergy,
and even the superintendent of the
female hulk at Hobart Town. You
weren’t allowed to put such things as a
pair of scissors, razor, glass bottle,
leeches, game, or bladders containing
liquid, in a postal packet. The sender of
money was advised to send bank-notes
cut in half (one half to be retained until
the letter was acknowledged), or
sovereigns or half-sovereigns fitted into
slits in cardboard. Two half-sovereigns
went to any part of the Colony for 4d.
in those days.
NO BALL!
“Some Federal M.P.s wanted Parliament to
open with a ball in March; others condemned
the expense involved and it is now to be a
reception with no dancing.”
One night I was late,
Tuned-in a debate —
Something had stitred-up a squall;
Some members were for, ,
Some rose to deplore,
Parliament’s opening Ball. *
There, in the hight, vitas a wonderful
scene,
They were trying to dance to the Party-
machine ;
Everyone argued the right and the wrong,
Like trying to waltz to a rock-’n’-roll
song:
One, two and then—rock!
One, two and then — roll!
Is it good for the Doc: ?
Will it injure our Poll ?
Eddie is shouting, “No Balls!”
One, twoTthree; one, two, three,
None of them can agree:
“Let’s have {ko} Rock-and-Roll
Wftltz r
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


r THE teenage miss handed-in a telegram
at the country p.o. counter with
a neatly-drawn arrow-pierced lover's
heart included in the text. “Can I
send it that way?” she quavered
hopefully. The young counter-clerk was
doubtful, checked with his senior, was
gravely told: “Diagrams not trans-
missible.” —“Quo Vadis.”
❖
“Arthur R.”: The first issue of the
defunct “Argus,” June 1, 1846, bears the
name of my grandfather, Samuel Goode,
as printer. His boast was that he
set up the first stick of type for the
issue. While with the “Argus”
Goode set up by hand in “Pearl”
(one of the smallest type-faces)
the whole of a popular dictionary,
a feat that has never, been equalled
by any.one printer. As the “Argus”
did all the Government-printing,
Goode was the first Government
Printer of Victoria. Early docu-
ments carry his name. He severed
his connection with the “Argus”
and started the “Albion,” a
virulently abusive weekly. It
struggled along for seventeen
issues, when Goode, as printer,
was proceeded against for criminal
libel and sentenced to two months’
imprisonment. He finished -up
proprietor of the Buninyong
“Telegraph.”
“C.A.A.”: Ceased publication
the same day as the Melbourne
“Argus” the Ballan “Times,” a
weekly sheet in the Ballarat district
which has been published since
1872. It couldn’t get technical staff.
“R.M.” : The quizmaster mentioned by
“W.P.T.” tB. 23 /1 / ’57) may not have
had the correct answer to that whaling
question himself. There is a tremendous
amount of whaling carried on in private
in the rural areas of America, usually in
the woodshed.
“W.G.L.” (Vic.): Grandmother
thought she would save a bob or so and
didn’t buy a ticket for little grandson.
The Flying Gang paid a visit, the checker
found' the old lady’s ticket in order and
asked the age of the little chap. “Oh,
three-and-a-half,” said his grandma.
This was too much for the boy. “Grand-
ma, how can you say such a thing? I’m
four!” “No, dear, three-and-a-half.”
Not to be outdone, the dear little
fellow said, “But, Grandma, you must
remember my birthday-party and the
cake with four candles?” The. ticket-
checker walked away. Grandmother had
suffered enough.
❖ * *
“Griff”: At the Festival of Perth no
fewer than twenty-eight Australian pieces
of music will be performed in a series
of six recitals. Australian art, literature
and drama will be given a similar boost.
❖ *:« ,
“Jasby”: What’s so new in being
knocked-down by a plane (B. 6/2/’57)?
A tentmate. Sonny Ford, came back to
camp one night in war-time Port Moresby
with a gash across his forehead. Only
explanation we could get from him was
that a Flying Fortress had fallen on him.
What’s more, he was telling the truth.
He’d been over at the wrecked-plane
dump at the end of Seven-mile Drome
scrounging perspex and, while tugging
something out of the junk-heap, had dis-
turbed the precariously balanced wing
of a wrecked F.F. It retaliated by
crowning him. He’s probably still wear-
ing the dent.
❖ *> *>
“Curie”: When living in Tasmania, I
heard of the Death family. One of them
was reputed to be a barber in Queens-
town, who displayed in his shop-window
the prominent notice: “Have a Close
Shave with Death.”
❖❖ * .
“Cyda”: Is “G.B.’s” par. about Pitt-,
water-road numbering (B. 23/l/’57)
another instance of Sydney copying the
U.S.? Last July 1 visited relatives in
Westminster, California, whose house-
number is 14,052. A few miles out from
Los Angeles, it took me half-a-day to
find.
❖ ❖ ❖
“D.J.G.”: Of 3323 traffic-offenders in
Victoria during the Australia Day holiday
weekend 115 were drivers, pulled up for
other offences, who were found to be
unlicensed ; about one in 29. Pedestrians
should 'protest; it is adding insult to
injury to be killed by an unlicensed
driver.
“Q. Ree” (Fiji): Maybe the licensee
of the Shakspeare Hotel tired of people
telling him that the “e” had been left
out of “Shakspeare” (“Zorok,” B.
9/1 /’57). When I made some Christmas-
cards, I was so pleased with myself that
I had the hide to sell them. I used
phonetic spelling for the place-names,
which is customary 1 in publications
intended for overseas readers as well as
local. But I got heartily sick of people
"Would y mind not starin', lady—it makes me nervous!"
telling me that “Thamboni” is spelt
“Caboni,” and vowed to use the latter
next time rather than have everyone tell
me that I don’t know how to spell.
+t+ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: “Fair Mac’s” statement
(B. 30/l/’57) about self-generated current
in plastic was interesting. I once saw an
operator get a considerable shock from
a cash-register. As I was only trained
in holding high the lamp, and not the
firing of it, I trust electrically-minded
people will bear with me if I haven’t
got the correct slant; but the operator
inadvertently knocked the plastic window
“I cart still feel the thrilling tingle where you kissed
my shoulder , Wallace."
in the register. It fell on to the condenser
(or whatever it is) and he opened the
trap-door to retrieve it, and picking up
the plastic got it properly. I believe in
W.A. it is law to have these condensers
enshrouded with a fibre-material cover.
+s♦
“Noon” : At Southport (Q.) on Aus-
tralia Day they laid them out all
over the place when the ladies started on
the broom-throwing.' A young married
woman go| the record of 67ft., but two
children and a youth were injured by
flying brooms —it seems the rules didn’t
provide for riding them.
“Rimutuka”: Twice I’m deceived by
bogus charity-collectors (B. 4/7/’56) —
which should have been enough. But no ;
I fall for another lurk! September last
a character drove and assailed my
weakest spot—double gerberas. “Well-
grown seedlings,” quoth he, “blooms
eight inches across, twelve different
colors, £2 10s. a dozen.” Rapid calcu-
lation assured me of a bargain, so off
he went, fifty-bob better off (and doubt-
less thinking about one being born
every minute!). The plants have all
flowered now, squidgy little singles, 9d.
-a bundle at the chain-stores! And the
North Queensland firm he claimed to
represent is not.
“Wusslean”: Victoria’s Housing Com-
mission must be pretty hardened towards
ingratitude: raising rents to something'
approaching an economic return almost
provoked a rebellion in the commission’s
settlements ; someone fired a rifle at the
chairman’s house and the allocation of
commission houses to Olympic Games
chefs called forth condemnation; but the
unkindest cut of all has come from the
president of the Victorian Teachers’
Union, who declared at a conference that
the 300 commission homes occupied by
Victorian teachers were “unsuitable both
in size and design” and “did not befit the
dignity of members of tjie teaching
profession.” If the teachers teach the
commission a lesson by vacating the des-
pised houses, plenty of other Victorians
would be only too happy to learn to live
without the electric hot-water services
and garages that are deemed essential to
uphold the prestige of .the teaching
profession.
❖ ❖ *X*
“8.A.H.,”: An ad. I saw for a drive-in
manager (B. 30/l/’57) said that appli-
cants needn’t have had previous theatre-
managing experience, but a thorough
knowledge of large-scale catering was
essential. Our drive-in couples direct
invitation to patronise the eating part of
the show with indirect salesmanship.
About two paces from the cafeteria-
block is a children’s playground, and
when Dad has spent a perspiring half-
hour amusing the little horrors here, he
straightens his aching back to savory
odors which are no doubt blown towards
him by a hidden fan. It’s not long before
he’s in there, forking-out for the whole
hungry, thirsty pack of them.
♦♦♦ ❖ ♦>
“Doynest”: The professional golfer in
America will have a harder row to hoe
if the U.S. Professional Golfers’ Asso-
ciation enforces its latest proposals. In
addition to imposing fines, it’s intended
to deduct good-behavior pdints for such
temperamental naughtiness as marking
the putting - green deliberately, using
abusive language to officials, spectators,
club-members, the press or caddies,
breaking clubs deliberately, or failing to
complete a tournament after qualifying—
the top-ranking points-winners receiving
substantial payments for playing in the
following year’s events. They’ll just have
to take* up amateur tennis.
♦♦♦ ♦♦+ ❖
“Sir Jay”: Arriving at the corner just
in -time to see the bus disappearing in the
distance, I let her have it. “I told you
a dozen times to hurry up and now look
—we’ve missed it and will have to wait
a half-hour for the next!” Getting one
of her famous right-off-the-South-Pole
looks, I knew I wasn’t going to win this
argument, either. “It’s your fault. If you
hadn’t kept on bustling me like that, we
wouldn’t have had to wait so long for the
next one.”
❖ ♦♦♦
“Doric”: Received a letter from an
American friend, written on his business
letter-head, which showed that he was a
purveyor of “clothing, furnishings.”
Oh my inquiry what clothing had to do
with furniture, he explained that “furn-
ishings” meant “shirt, socks, ties, etc.” —
he was under the impression that it was
an old English word for what we know
as “mercery.”
FOR WHEEL AND WOE
“Advertisements on roadside-hoardings such
as those which depict attractive girls in swim-
suits, or foaming glasses of beer, tend to distract
the driver’s attention from the road, and should
be banned.” —Letter to Melbourne paper.
When Grandpa drove his trap '
He'd face but little risk
That he’d meet with some mishap,
Even though the pace was brisk.
Ads. were painted then on rails —
Pills and potions, knives and nails,
Couldn’t distract him from his roadside
duty ;
He had never a wandering thought,
For his eye was never caught
By pictorial splash of beer or curvesome
cutie.
We’ve improved, since then, a lot.
Nature’s ugly trees, we found,
Constituted quite a blot
On the landscape. We were bound,
Then, to hide them where we could.
So in front of them we stood
Big, beautiful hoardings — not, of
course, near byways,
But where speedo starts to soar,
As the right foot hits the floor,
And the juggernauts all roar along the
highways.
Billo’s spark-plugs, Jupkins’ rings
(That will give “performance-plus”) ;
Someone’s ointment, fags or springs —
These won’t help you prang your bus;
For the merest fleeting glance
You might give such ads. by chance.
But for mayhem on the roads there's
nothing better
For a driver than to gink
At a foaming amber drink,
Or a good sort modelling a clinging
sweater.
Let’s burn-up the bitumen,
Eyes stuck out like organ-stops
(I refer, of course, to men),
At depicted foaming hops,
And the gorgeous girl whose smile
Is intended to beguile.
These might make you forget oncoming
traffic,
But no matter. Gaze behind
For a last look. Then, enshrined
Your memory’ll be in phrases
epitaphic l
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
T. A. Miles, of Wahroonga (N.S.W.),
who served with Sir Ivan Holyman
throughout World War I, adds this
note on Holyman’s career.
Ivan Holyman enlisted in the
A.I.F. as a private in August, 1914,
when he was 19, in the 12th Bat-
talion ; was at the Landing ; served with
the battalion continuously; and was still
serving when the First A.I.F. fought its
last fight in September, 1918. So he was
one of the very small band who were
there from go to whoa. He was given a
commission on the field, and won the
Military Cross.
9 9
Bustling Percy William Haddy takes
over the chair of A.N.A. directors
formerly occupied by Sir Ivan Holyman.
Haddy has been in a hurry most of his
business life; he came up from office-
boy at Port Adelaide of Adelaide Steam-
ship Co. to Australian g.-m., was elected
to the A.N.A. board to represent the
steamship co.’s financial interest in the
stripling airline, and now it offers a better
job. Percy Haddy’s nominal address is
Melbourne, but he spends much of his
active life in the other capitals.
m c»
Bill Fitz Henry died at his desk in The
Bulletin office last week, at 54. Directly
or indirectly, every writer in Australia,
and most aspiring writers, knew him,
either as W. E. Fitz Henry, the champion
of Australian literature and authority on
every Bulletin writer since the paper
began, or as plain Bill Fitz Henry, best of
good fellows, kindest, and always a
champion of Australian literature —a
fierce one, if that word can be used of
anyone so cheerful and essentially gentle.
A Sydneysider who seldom strayed from
his native city. Bill had a tough early life in one
of the inner industrial suburbs arid, as he has
written elsewhere, was a Labor supporter all
his days. When he left school he became an
office-boy to Bertram Stevens, editor of the old
“Lone Hand”; then, in 1917, he joined The
Bulletin as a junior clerk, and subsequently
was secretary to three Bulletin editors (S. H.
Prior, J. E. Webb and David Adams). Also, he
had looked after literary payments, handled
The Bulletin’s Service Page from its begin-
nings until very recent times, when his health
was failing, and for 40 years had been friend and
counsellor to all the freelance contributors
(writers and artists) who called at the office.
He wrote as “Fitz,” “W.E.F.” and “More-
head,” mostly about writers and artists (one of
his recent pars, is on this page), and under his .
own name wrote many special and “Red Page”
articles. Last year he was given a Common-
wealth Literary Fund grant to write his literary
reminiscences; Walter Stone, one of Bill’s
best friends, tells that the MS. is almost ready
for the printer, adding: “Those who had the
pleasure of working with him on literary pro-
BILL FITZ HENRY, as Frith saw him
in 1930.
jects will recall the methodical approach and
tidiness of his work.”
Bill was secretary of The Bulletin novel-
competitions in 1928 and 1929—competitions
which broug ht to light the work of M. Barnard
Eldershaw, and drew in among many others
Katharine Susannah Prichard and Vance
Palmer. He was sec., too, of the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, which discovered Kylic
Tennants Tiburon and Miles Franklin’s All
that swagger, among other npvels.
of lhe , Fellowship of Australian
Writers for a couple of terms, he was always
in demand as a lecturer to cultural bodies; not
long back he went to Mudgee (N.S.W) for a
Henry Lawson celebration; and one of his more
intrepid lecturing chores was a visit to Fren-
sham girls’ school, where he was a great
success; he stayed the weekend.
With Cecil Ringstad, Bill founded and edited
the Australian Authors and Artists' Handbook,
which ran into several editions and was a great
help to Australian freelances. His knowledge of
Australian writers and writing was freely and
graciously available to anyone who wanted it,
from nervous youngsters to distinguished
scholars; anyone interested in the subject visit-
ing Australia always, ended, or began, with a
session with Bill, and Australian literary
historians, anthologists and bibliographers, such
as H. M. Green, George Mackaness, Percival
Serle and Morris Miller, have all acknowledged
his assistance in prefaces to their books.
He was also interested in the repertory
theatre, and was a close friend of Duncan
Macdougall, whose publicity-manager and
adviser he was during theVeaTs Duncan was a
force in .the Sydney theatre. In recent years,
apart from his big project, in Walter Stone’s
words, “he wrote the most readable portion of
The Bocks of ‘The Bulletin!' compiled by myself
and George Mackaness”; and an introduction
to the new edition of Steele Rudd’s On Our
Selection. «•
He liked to describe himself as one of the
last of the old Bohemians. His greatest failing
was that he could never resist a hard-luck story,
be the teller friend or stranger. He gave
lavishly of his time and money. Such men
don’t leave fortunes, but they leave enduring
memories.
o •
Jack Kramer, interviewed in Sydney,
is a pleasant, modest chap, with definite
views about the physical conditioning
JACK KRAMER
necessary for tennis. Asked when a top
tennis-player began to fade he looked
thoughtful, then said it was mainly a
matter of how much care he had taken
of himself. “After thirty he doesn’t
want to work so hard,” he said. “I don’t
mean he doesn’t try hard on the court
—in a match —he does. But he doesn’t
have the enthusiasm to keep up the daily
grind, keeping in condition. A guy like
Sedgman, now, who looks after him-
self —well, there’s no reason why he
shouldn’t still be at his top at thirty-five.”
Kramer, who’s in his middle-thirties,
blames poor conditioning, several years
back, for some of his recent mishaps.
• o
Leonard Cox has been a forward in
the National Gallery Trustees team in
Melbourne for years, was one of the
protagonists of the National Gallery
Society (whose activities and interests. are
wider than the title suggests) and has
been a collector of Chinese art since his
university-student days, so nobody was
surprised when the trustees voted him
into their chair last week.
One of our leading neurologists, Dr.
Cox owns a wonderful collection of
Chinese ceramics, including some superb
T’ang specimens and pieces of earlier
dynasties, which he keeps under glass in
his Toorak house;
He was in China a few months ago,
as fascinated as ever by Chinese art and
architecture, feeling more respectful
to&ards Chinese medicine under the new
regime, and horrified to find modern
Chinese art overlaid with Russian—er—
culture.
® e
After completing the final settlement
in Canberra of the Anglo-Australian
Trade Agreement, the permanent sec-
retary of the Board of Trade, London,
Sir Frank Lee, who reached Australia on
February 7, plans to visit a number of
industrial and other centres in all States,
and later in New Zealand. For some
years Minister at the U.K. Embassy m
Washington, he visited Australia in 1953
for the Commonwealth Finance
Ministers’ conference in Sydney. Hell
be 54 this year. x
• ®
Alex Henderson, of Wesley College,
Perth, who has taught many thousands
of boys in many schools for 53 years, has
decided to give the game away. Starting
in Victoria in 1904, he moved to
Westralia and taught in a succession of
'State schools on the goldfields and in
Perth, ending his service with the Educa-
tion Department at Perth Boys’ School,
from which he crossed the river and
joined the staff at Wesley College. Alert,
wiry, looking much younger than his
76 years, he will keep up his keen interest
in sport and music. He’s been lawn-
tennis champion of W.A.’s South-West, a
football coach and umpire, founder of a
16-piece dance-band and conductor of
a 200-voice choir.
• e
• “Fitz”: In the introduction to the journals
of Governor Macquarie’s Tours in N. S. Wales
and Van Diemen’s Land (recently published by
the N.S.W.* Public Library) the trustees “are
deeply indebted to their colleague, the Hon.
T. D. Mutch, who has generously used his
specialised knowledge to make the index and
notes detailed and complete.” In the library’s
1956 report the trustees congratulate him on
his completion of 40 years as a trustee.
Tom Mutch was appointed an N.S.W. Public
Library trustee in 1916, when he was a young
and efficient chairman of the N.S.W. District
of the Australian Journalists Association, which
he helped to establish. Born in England (his
father was an Mutch came here
when he was a toddler, knocked around the
bush, and joined the literary staff of the Sydney
“Worker,” where he met Henry Lawson. In
1917 he was one of a team of new Laborites
who entered the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly
following the big split in the Labor party over
conscription and Lawson wrote a couple of
poems supporting his candidature.
Mutch represented Botany for 13 years, was
Minister for Local Government and twice
Minister for Education —one of the best the.
State has had. In 1930 he left the Labor party
after a clash with Jack Lang. Defeated for
Botany by Bob Heffron, he tried, as a U.A.P.
candidate, to unseat Peter Lazzarini in Werriwa
in the 1934 Federal elections. He missed out,
but was returned on the U.A.P. ticket for
Coogee in the State House, staying there three
years until beaten by Lou Cunningham. He was
also an alderman of the Mascot and Randwick
and a member of. the N.S.W. Board of
Fire Commissioners for many years.;
As a Public Library trustee Mutch’s interest
has been mainly in the Mitchell Library. He
is a Fellow of the Royal Australian Historical
Society, has always been interested in Pacific-
Australian historical research, and has published
a valuable pamphlet on the early life of Henry
Lawson. During the late ’thirties he was on
the literary staff of The Bulletin.
o •
Leonard Hooper, who has been
running the forbiddingly-named R. G.
Dun and Co. in Australia from Mel-
bourne for 31 years, called it a day on
January 31 in favor of H. E. Strothard,
a Canadian, who will run it from Sydney.
Dun’s is the Australian offshoot of Dun
and Bradstreet, Inc., which employs 3000
in New York alone to give subscribers
trade information, status reports on firms
and individuals, mercantile business and,
of course, a service on debt-collecting.
Is that where the verb to dun comes
from? Len Hooper doesn’t know; he is
also in the dark about what he will do in
retirement. “Damned if I know, now
you mention it.” Only three other
charter members of Melbourne Rotary
survive with him from 1921. They are
three noted Melburnians, Sir John
Latham, Tom Lothian the publisher, and
Professor Osborne.
• •
Rod O’Loan, manager of David
Jones’ men’s store, Sydney, has been
made an Italian knight (cavaliere) of the
Order of A 1 Merito della Republica in
recognition of his services in promoting
the recent Italian Exposition. O’Loan
was a leading player with Eastern
Suburbs (Sydney) Rugby League club in
its palmy days in the ’thirties. He was
a record try-getter one season.
• •
“Allan B ”: Sir John Newman'Morris,
who has passed on in Melbourne (B.
30/1 /’57), was chairman of the B.M.A.
for 17 years, Deputy-Chancellor of
Melbourne University for a term, Red
Cross chairman for seven years, Flying
Doctor Service president for two years.
He was active on 30 committees ; there
was hardly a medical service or a charity
concerned with care of the sick in
Victoria in which he was not somehow
involved. A large part of the success
of the important Australasian Medical
Congress in 1952 was due to his efficient
chairmanship. With such a record, it’s
hard to pinpoint his most important con-
tribution to Australia. This writer’s
choice: his work in organising the
National Blood Transfusion Service, and
his long association with the Red Cross.
H’O’ (BiH) Moore, boss of the 1.C.1.
Alkah (Aust.) Pty. plant at Osborne,
Adelaide, went to school with artist
Lionel Coventry, who here plays the part
of candid friend. Bill went on to the S.A.
School of Mines and Adelaide University,
collected a diploma in industrial-chemis-
try and a B.Sc. degree in biochemistry
and physical-chemistry, and helped to
make a forerunner of cortisone in the
university’s biochem. labs. Joined
BILL MOORE
1.C.1.A.N.Z. in 1937, spent the next nine
years in Victoria and N. S. Wales (helping
to get new plants going; making, among
other things, nitro-cellulose, sulpha-
merazine for the troops in New Guinea,
D.D.T’, and something to kill internal
parasites of stock); thence to Osborne.
Had nine months with the parent com-
pany in England in 1949, and became
No. 1 at Osborne four years later. Likes
gardening, music, smacking a tennis-ball,
and fishing off Kangaroo Island.
9 9 %p
“Doormat”: Further to the passing of
Louis Monod (B. 30/1 / ’57). He
collapsed at Melbourne Showgrounds,
where he had served 40 years with the
R.A.S. ; in addition to many improve-
ments. and advances during his 20 years
as secretary, he was mainly responsible
for the installation of floodlighting and
sponsoring night-programmes there.
Stock pedigree-recording and classifica-
tion was his long suit; he acted as
secretary for * dozens of Victorian
branches and Federal organisations
representing breeders of horses, cattle,
pigs and dogs. Sjix years ago he was
awarded th£ 0.8. E. in recognition of
his services to agriculture. Although he
retired from the R.A.S. four years ago,
he continued his active membership with
the Trotting Control Board.
9 a
S. E. Kleerkoper, of Melbourne,
becomes general-manager of Plastalon
Pty., Ltd., and its associate companies.
Former managing-director of Ametco
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd., and of Ametco (N.Z.),
Ltd., before that he was secretary to
General Spoor, at the time C.-in-C. of
Netherlands Forces in the N.E.I.
« (9
ffnto the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 77, Andrew Drummond,
city jeweller and sportsman. He came from
England after special training there as a gem
and jewellery expert to join his uncle, William
Drummond, in the firm of that name. Became
sole proprietor in 1917, and carried on till
he formed the public co. Wm. Drummond and
Co., Ltd., in 1950, retaining a seat on the board
till his death. He took a special interest in
supplying the “hoops” that bound together
many leading families in Victoria and other
States, and was a life-member of the National
Gallery of Victoria.
In Sydney, at 59, Ted Hush, trainer of
Hydrogen (£59,444 in stake-money), Russia
(1946 Melbourne Cup), Abspear (1943 Sydney
Cup), Pride of Egypt, Caranna, Dewar, and
other good horses. He took out a licence when
he came back from War I, got his start with a
pony called Leone (he named his Randwick
home after the horse), and trained, in all, 60
Cup-winners.
In Melbourne, at 76, Guy Purbrick, chair-
man of W. and K. Purbrick Pty., Ltd., city
printers, and a director of Peters Ice Cream,
Ltd.
At Newcastle (N.S.W.), at 63, Bruce Clinton
Macgregor, editor of the “Newcastle Sun.” On
the Inky Way for nearly 50 years, he had been
editor of the “Sun” since 1934.


MAKING IDENTIFICATION POSITIVE


ABORIGINALITIES
TIjTRE-SPOTTING is no novelty in
x forest areas, but 25 miles west of
Horsham (Viol) a local identity keeps
watch over 8000 square-miles of culti-
vated plain. His tower is located on Mt.
Arapiles, a sandstone pile rising 700 ft.
above the plain—the only appreciable rise
between the Grampians and the S.A.
border. It was so named by explorer
Thomas Mitchell because he discovered
it on the anniversary of the death of a
brother who fell at Mt. Arapiles, in Spain,
during the battle of Salamanca, and it
was from this point that Mitchell first’
saw the southern portion of the Gram-
pians and was able to distinguish Mt.
William, some 53 miles away. Today’s
fire-watcher can do even better: with the
aid of an alidade —first-cousin to a tele-
scope—and a military-map he once
located a fire 62 miles away. And fires
aren't all he sees; the other day he rang
a farmer telling him that his cows were
invading the wheat-crop.—“ Carlyle.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: After centuries of ortho-
dox behavior the rose has gone all tem-
peramental and presented hybridists with
: a major problem, for they are in agree-
ment that the “queen of flowers” is
slowly but surely losing her perfume.
One way of stopping the rot might be
to change the name of the bloom ; it
should work —if Juliet knew her onions,
or roses.
* * . * *
“Wandana”: In the saloon-bar of the
Union Hotel at Hahndorf (S.A.) a big
lift, mural painting of a farm-scene in
the early German community has been
unveiled. The work of S.A. artists Trevor
Clare and Walter Wotzke, it was done
on the property of a farmer possessing
the only old-type horse-drawn German
wagon left in the district. Built at Hahn-
dorf in 1900 by H. Martin, wheelwright,
and W. Haebich, blacksmith, the wagon
was largely used for carting hay. Two
Clydesdale horses sketched with it
posed patiently for eight hours while the
artists were at work.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Observation many years
ago had led me to accept that intermin-
able warfare was waged between the big
red meat-ant and the little black bloke,
with the blacks invariably the aggressors'*
and eventual winners. Recent study
makes me think that a estate of uneasy
coexistence is the order. In my own
grounds I’ve found several weak nests
of reds being generally tolerated by their
swarming black neighbors. But when-
ever in gardening I sink a spade into a
blacks’ nest, the occupiers swarm out and
attack every meat-ant they can lay their
fierce little jaws on. Apparently they
blame their big neighbors for the
catastrophe.
* -* * *
“Jackstay”: The groper, whose bones
are slightly green, is considered poison-
ous by some, as also are his near-
relations the brightly-colored parrot-fish,
whose gaudy stripings are held to be
Nature’s warning. The john-dory,
always at a top-price in Sydney, is also
held by some to be fatal, because it has
no scales —a belief that apparently stems
from the days of Moses. The red rock-
cod, a fearsome-looking customer whose
spines certainly contain some mildly
venomous fluid and can give a painful
wound, also bears the same reputation.
And the porcupine-fish, colored ghastly
greens and yellows, covered with rows of
hooked spines, and capable of inflating
itself like the poisonous toad-fish, yields
a large liver that’s eaten with much relish
by N.S.W. fishermen. I’ve eaten all these
copiously and often, and can assure all
and sundry that the writing of this testi-
mony was not preceded by resurrection.
“North Esk”: For almost a hundred
years a roofless church on the Bass High-
way CTas.), looking like an old English
ruin, has intrigued travellers with its
handsome door- and window-arches and
its wrought-bluestone walls. Started in
1856 by the Archdeacon Thomas Reibey,
at that time owner of Entally House near
by, and grandson of Mary Reibey
(Haydock), the ex-convict-girl who built
up big business and trading interests in
Sydney after she’d married Lieutenant
Reibey, the building at the little village
of Hadspen had reached its present stage
when a breach with the ecclesiastical
authorities stopped the work. Now the
church is to be completed at a cost of
about £4OOO, When this is done a number
of furnishings from the Reibey
“Thanks SO much!"
private chapel at Entally House will be
placed in the church; including hand-
some stained-glass windows at present in
the wooden village church close by. The
Archdeacon, a keen lover of horse-racing,
cricket and other sports, entered Parlia-
ment and remained there for 25 years,
holding Ministerial office some part of
the time. When the Duke of Edinburgh
visited Tasmania in 1868 he was enter-
tained by Reibey at Entally House, and
old pictures show H.R.H. on the box of
Reibey’s four-horse carriage. Arch-
deacon Reibey died in 1912, the name in
Australia dying with him. He and his
wife are buried in the graveyard behind
the unfinished church.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: The myth of the “joint-
snake” could have originated from the
slow-worm. A legless lizard, it grows
to about 18in., and resembles a young
brown-snake; but when hit hard with a
stick the lizard’s -body breaks at the point
of impact, the broken-off piece dancing
on end much like the purposely-discarded
tail of a frightened newt. I’ve seen a
slow-worm’s body break into three
pieces after two whacks with a rolled-up
paper; a bush-supposition used to be
that the pieces will join up again, or, if
they are too scattered, the reptile will
grow more spare-parts. True, an
occasional “Manx” proves that the slowie
can survive a lopped tail, but I’ve never
seen an indication of a replacement
coming. And any reptile bobbed on the
head-side of the vent has “had” it.
A * * *
“Kelms”: “Ex-Ped.” doubts my ability
to recognise a house-rat simply because
he has never, seen one nesting in a tree
(B. 16/1 /’57). ‘ I’ve seen them take over
birds’-nests, presumably after killing the
legitimate owners. I know house-rats
and water-rats, and I’ve trapped the
latter, often a long way from water.
“Ex-Ped,” overlooks two points. The
house-rat is a comparatively recent im-
portation—assuming that some may have
come ashore from the first European ship
to be wrecked on our coasts, they can’t
have been in the country much over 400
years, and they’re still in process of
adapting themselves. Evolution is long
and slow, and some rats that have gone
bush —as they have around my neck of
the woods —may be seeking nesting-situa-
tions where they’ll have more protection
from the domestic cats that have also
gone bush. And what better spot than
a tree surrounded by water? The second
point is that our water-rats weren’t
always aquatic. They’re descended from
land-rats that spread outwards from the
Philippines ages ago.
* * *
“Lightning J.”: A decade or so ago two
iron telegraph-wires connected Perth with
the rest of the world. Then superimposed
channels on the existing wires were intro-
duced, making good telegraphic and
telephonic contact possible. The latest
development is a radio-link on which two-
way teleprinters link Perth with the other
capital cities,
* * * *
{WOULDN’T agree more with “Nulla”
(B. 30/1/’57) that the U.S. cowboy’s
dress smacks of the circus-ring; but
why has this gaudy and often impractical
garb spread its horrible blight so widely
in this country?
Flaming shirts, denim trousers (“dun-
garees” in my day), wide hats with
wildly curling brims, and fancy boots
and belts smack to me more strongly of
the newchum than the bushman, who,
when I was one, would have crawled into
a hollow-log rather than be seen so like
a maypole.
Grey-beaver moles, concertina-leggings,
plain shirt and neckerchief are not only
workmanlike but are distinctively Aus-
tralian, instead of being a cheap and
tawdry imitation of Hollywood.
Formerly, “denim” was something no
self-respecting stockman would wear,
being the badge of the lowly tribe of
farmhands, clods who shambled about
their work on foot, and who, if they did
venture into the bush, got lost and caused
endless trouble to the stockmen and
boundary-riders who had to go and look
for them.
And, as one last blast, if one of today’s
“organ-grinder’s monkeys” were riding
a horse of mine I’d be filled with the
gravest apprehensions regarding the fate
of the animal’s mouth and back —no
man silly enough to dress like that could
be a horseman.
WARRABULLA.
BRISBANE
This endlessly seething cauldron of tropical red
flowers
Has lain seven long dry months in drought,
separate as wine from the glass.
All through the long intoxicating Queensland
hours,
I’ve watched the purple jacaranda’s purple
showers
Of frail black shadows flit across the grass.
And down beside the Brisbane River, standing
dark and delicate,
Are slender branched hibiscus, red as roses,
Pink as carnations, twisted in exquisite Ways,
thin and antiquate,
Against the great iron bridge’s veiled faces.
One supposes
They bud and blossom year-round against the
old colonial brown
Of Queensland earth, where ancient-looking sail,
all white, floats on.
Small ferries cross the river that, yellowed with
boats, runs down
To the North Australian seas. Royal mauve
jacaranda and the flametrees rise upon
Each summit of the mind that runs to meet
them, and eveiywhere
The yellow and white, golden-lipped frangipani
makes exquisite the air.
Brown-footed on the bright red Queensland
grass, our heads are showered
With poincianas spreading crimson pipes fluting
an ancient song
To tattered banana-palms. And often where
the frangipanis flowered, y
The golden-faced Queenslanders tread heed-
lessly all day long
The thick white perfume underfoot like cream.
Mobs of black crows $
Float blackly, brilliantly, across the Queensland
skies,
Black against blue, crying in loud harsh Latin,
in great tones that grow
Fainter and fainter with distance, “Qua . s .
qua. . . qua,” as each one flies
Scrubward to the golden, blue and purple trees,
sculptured beyond the town,
To walk grey-footed among gilded leaves, the
vast labyrinthine streets remembering,
And the brilliant city’s firefly buildings by
night ...
Commerce’s lips, all red, blazingly alight with
her dark potential might;
The rich red houses, curiously, studiously, made
of Queehsland stone;
And down in Leichhardt-street, pawpaw and
mango filling out like orbs
Red gold under dress-like leaves, and apricot
frangipani alone
Standing beside old houses of Queensland
brown, laced with delicate iron—whose
flowers absorb
The age of Asia from this, our Queensland
earth. Old bronze, green-brown,
The endless rattan blinds, as thin as shadows,
stand or swing from shadowy roofs
Before the doors. And often, slowly moving in
pattern, gauzily up and down,
A faint, far figure passes, behind this painted
veil, in vague aloof,
Soft solitary dream. The bean-trees Hung with
brilliant painted pods
Dangle to the earth, the soft red-purple dust,
and a thousand rich unknown flowers
Lift with the waratah, the jacaranda and the
pawpaws to the gods
Their ceaseless song of color,- all the royal hues.
There is no rain yet, but showers
Of wild hard voiceless color triumph in
Queensland green, a magic shade,
In a blue heaven that the swift low-flying
Brisbane crows have made.
Horse-thistles flat as green heroic shields are
covered by burred fine nets
Of brilliant gold. And scarlet, velvet flowers
rock in sets
Around the great grey sausages that hang thick-
girthed from vines
That dangle from the sausage-tree, or lie upon
the earth like dried-up wine.
The academic sugarcane in level rows of dearth
Is cloaked in blue moths, and the red of the
fire of earth
Comes out dressed in North Australian green,
Hopefullest of hues the eyes have ever seen,
Tropical, island-owned, by rainbow-parrots
dressed to meet tomorrow’s rain,
As though, at last, at last, all our old gods had
come back to earth again——
Awoken from sleep, remembered, looked, *
murmured, smiled and wept
In showers of rain within, while all golden-
deep in drought, brown Queensland slept.
Until the roaring, thunderous-throated god-
head with his streams
Of pouring rain and now awakened her to share
his dreams. '
QUEENSLAND.
EVEL LANGLEY.


I WONDER how many abos. would
recognise our old friend Laughing lack
under his native name of kookaburra?
David Unaipon, that versatile old full-
blood who yams in fluent English about
his people’s customs, told me once that
“kookaburra” should be written with an
additional “a” and pronounced “kooka-
a-burra,” just as “Ballarat” should be
really “Balla-a-rat,” as set out on early
official documents. But Tunning through
some Australian aboriginal language-
sheets recently I found considerable
diversity in Laughing Jack’s native
name.
Queensland tribes called him cower-
burra, kocaburra and kakooburra,
although on the Barcoo he was recognised
as oolbarra, and Keppel Bay people knew
him as toonee.
Between the Albert River (Q.) and
Tweed River (N.S.W.) his name was
kaagoon, or kagorim; and there were a
number of other variations. Tribes
round Bathurst called the bird kooka-
burra, or koguburra, While Forbes natives
said googoobra, and Jervis Bay people
shortened it to kookoo.
Gongong was his monicker along parts
of the Murray, and down at Mount
Gambier (S.A.) a stranger wouldn’t have
known him under his name of kooartang.
Coming over into Victoria, at Hamil-
ton korn-korn identified (he chuckler, but
Portland natives spoke of him as konet
and on the Loddon he was korung-
korung, With the altogether different title
of woowook in Gippsland.
The best-known name, kookaburra,
figures in the N.S.W. Hunter River and
Dubbo dialects.
O’JOHNNO.
* * * *
“Manamoi”: I’ve had contact with
cattle-raising in four Australian States, as
well as in the N.T.,, but had never known
of a stockman being called a “ringer”
till I read A Town Like Alice. ’ The term
has, of course, been used for many years
in shearing-sheds to designate the fastest
shearer on the board. Perhaps Nevil
Shute intended his “ringer” to indicate
the king-pin stockman.
* * * *
“K.R.”: I when very young had an
experience similar to “Nimrod’s” 21-
year-old Christopher from the outback;
who on his return from the city demanded
“gee-up’s milk” (B. 23/1/’57). City-bred,
I was taken for my first visit to an
uncle’s dairyfarm ; but the drink of milk
given to me being straight from the cow
and very warm,! and not at all like the
milk I was used to, I wouldn’t have it,
and asked instead for a glass of “the
milk the milkman brings.”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Won’t have it that
the fox hasn’t been a factor in the near-
extinction of bristle-birds in W.A. (B.
9/1/’57). Specialisation hasn’t killed-off
the emu and the swamp-
hen ; and you could get
no better example of
specialisation than the
spine-tailed swift, whose
legs have become so weak
through lack of use that
when it roosts it must sup-
port its weight on its tail-
feathers. Yet the swift
isn’t in danger of extinc-
tion. I’ll grant that, to
succeed, specialisation
must coincide with suitable
conditions, particularly
environment, but the
bristle-birds had restricted
themselves to certain small
localities to which their
sturdy legs, quick-running
habits and general elusive-
ness fitted them. They
withstood the attacks of
the early naturalists, who
considered themselves
justified in “taking”
specimens, however rare
the species—why is it that
naturalists with degrees
never “kill,” they always
“take”? —and as some of
the birds’ natural enemies,
such as the/ small
carnivorous marsupials,
down before the
march of civilisation the
bristle-birds might have held their
°wn. Their haunts, such as in reedy
ground and amongst the low scrub that
grows on poorer land, might have escaped
the plough, but ground-nesting and low-
aesting species have no answer to the
fox.
* * * *
“Mackville”: The rain hadn’t ceased
all day, bringing the mists down from the
to P of the mountains behind Gerringong
(N.S.W.), over ridge and hillock until
even the flat paddocks were obscured and
the fog had ascended the rise almost to
our back-door. Then suddenly an amaz-
ing thing happened. The mist over the
flats thinfied, but they were no longer
flats —they were steep hills! And they
were closer, much closer. A house that
had been distinguishable only as a red
weatherboard in the distance was now
as clear as if vie Wed through a telescope.
Even the curtains at the
windows were distinct.
The cows near the far-off
dairy seemed a mere
hundred yards away, and
they were walking up a hill
that should not have
existed. It was one of those
sights that make the
beholder call for another
witness to establish
whether his sight or sanity
is still the same as other
people’s. The fog drifted
back and when it cleared
again all was normal.
There can be only one
answer to the phenome-
non ; just as an object
viewed through a glass"
container filled with water
becomes magnified and
distorted, so, in some
strange way, the moisture
in the mist affected the
scene.
“Bass”: What is the object of birds’
mimicry? I’ve heard reed-warblers, for
instance, giving fair imitations of the
wagtails’ call, and they have even voiced
a few notes of the mudlarks’ repertoire.
And the other species then retaliated,
though not with the same fidelity. Were
the imitations evidence of friendliness,
or were they attempts to learn the others’
languages to warn them off feeding-
grounds? It might help to be able to
tell the other bloke in his own language
that you saw it first.
* * * *
“loane” (Samoa): Somebody has been
pulling “Lyle’s” leg about soap and
Samoans (B. 9/1/’57). It’s possible that
Keith- Ransom does sell 50 tons a
month, but he runs the only soap-factory
in the territory, and the population, as
disclosed by the 1956 census, is over
97,000, not 10,000. So the usage-rate is
a little over lib. per person per month for
all purposes, including laundry. The
Samoan bathes or showers every day, but
this doesn’t necessarily give him the
world’s record. As for taking his soap
with him wherever he goes, I haven’t
noticed any of my team bringing a piece
to work with him. And if “Lyle” ever
visits these islands, he’d better not refer
to Samoans as “natives.” They’re a proud
and touchy race, not at all fond of the
word. They have been called the Aristo-
crats of the Pacific, but the Irish" of the
“Regular customer or not —I say he’s pernickety."
Pacific would be a better title. They love
a bit of stoush.
* * <• *
“Maitri”: Lately came on a number
of snails (just about to yield up the
ghost) perched on top of spider-tunnels
in the flower-beds ; and one I saw being
hauled from its shell into the hole by a
large spider. Elastic wasn’t in it com-
pared with the stretching-capacity of that
gasteropod, but it was evident from the
empty shell next morning that the spider
had won. Now I’m trying to discover if
spiders drag snails to the tops of their
funnels or whether they just lie in wait
till the snails start to crawl across.
* * * *
“Spenton”: Further to “Dicky” on
avian trilling (B. 23/1/’57). The black-
“Going, going, gone! Knocked down to Mr. Solly Levenstein, Bob."
bird, too, evidently knows the calendar
exactly, for in his homeland you never
hear a note from him after August 31.
From September 1 you listen there for
his kinsman, the hitherto silent thrush,
who will. perch on the highest neaf-by
pinnacle—church spire, topmost twig on
the highest tree, or TV-aerial —and whistle
and sing his utmost till dark: and
especially cheerful is he on the eve of a
darkening storm. The timing-proclivities
of these two songsters is reminiscent of
C. J. Dennis’s “Ginger Mick,” who
related to the duchess his tale of Aus-
tralia’s “... .wondrous Bosther Bird, who
builds ’is nest up in the Cobber I’ree, and
’atches out its young on May the third,
strict to the minute, just at ’arf-past
three!”
* * , ' *
“R.H.G.”: “H.C.8.” can duplicate his
freezing effect (B. 23/1 /’57) by pulling
out the valve-core of a high-pressure
truck-tyre, pumped up to 901 b. or so of
air: the valve-stem will become encrusted
with frost. The" sudden release of atmos-'
pheric pressure of air under high pressure
causes a sharp drop in temperature
(Boyle’s Law of Gases). That is the
principle governing refrigeration,
ammonia and other chemical action
being employed to control the freezing
process and provide automatic operation.
Troops in the desert used another varia-
tion by pouring petrol over bottles of
beer and standing them in the sun. The
terrific evaporation similarly caused a
sharp drop in temperature.
* * * *
“Mingari”: Black-and-white birds all
the year round may be the rule in
“Wippegong’s” country (B. 30/1 / ’57),
but I can’t recall seeing them at any
time of the year in the lower Gascoyne
(W.A.) territory. In this low-rainfall belt
—lOin. annually, sometimes —there was
nothing to attract the peewee, or mudlark,
mud usually being absent. Also, there
was little, morning or evening, for the
magpie to carol over. On the other hand,
we had black birds and white birds in
abundance. The latter, great flocks of
sulphur-crested cockatoos, held raucous
non-stop Parliaments around the pool
below the homestead, reserving their most
contentious questions for Sunday after-
noons, the better to ruin the stockmen’s
rest. Black was more than well repre-
sented by the crows, whose habit of
following a solitary horseman for miles
along a hot, dry stage added very little
to the charm of vast stretches of drought-
stricken sand and saltbush, and not much
imagination was needed, after hours of
such shadowing, to believe that the desire
for human company was not the thought
uppermost in their minds.
jf. * * *
“Miss M.”: Few barriers cut us off
so effectively from our fellowmen as
unshared phobias. David Fleay was
once showing round his fauna-reserve an
intelligent, well-informed visitor, who
obviously loved animals. They were
getting on famously until the zoologist
suggested a call on the pride of his heart,
the taipans. The visitor’s horrified recoil
showed plainly that, on that subject, their
feelings were poles apart. This fear is,
of course, fairly common — The
Bulletin’s reviewer of Snakes of
Australia is evidently a victim—and
makes it difficult to believe that Mr.
Kinghom’s book, however excellent, will
ever sell as well as, say, What Bird Is
That? But ithe persons deserving of
pity are those who are morbidly terrified
of cats —as distinct from simply disliking
them. These unfortunates go through
agonies of teasing in their childhood,
and, later, often figure in episodes where
good manners and human relationships
are strained to the limit. A shared fear,
on the other hand, may prove an
unexpected bond. My admiration for the
intrepid Nancy Wake was increased and
warmed immensely when I learned that
she hides in cupboards and won’t answer
the phone during thunderstorms.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Plain member of a family
noted for beauty, the, plum-headed finch
is mostly brownish-grey with a purple
patch on the top of its head. A valuable
bird to farmers, it has a great partiality
for thistle-seeds and well might have been
called the thistle-finch. Like most of its
tribe it moves about in large flocks, and
breeds, if not in communities, at least
with close neighbors. Most finches when
flushed on the ground fly into bushes or
the lower branches of trees, but the plum-,
heads frequently take refuge in tree-tops,
gathering in tight little clusters there till
the intruder has passed on. One great
asset to this species in its struggle for
survival is its lack of popularity as a
cage-bird.


57- ! 36
I.A.C
It will shortly file and issue a
Prospectus for an issue at par of .. .
currencies from 3 months to ] 20 years at
________ your option .
INTEREST CURRENCY
7% r 6 years
6% 3 years
Si% 2 years.
Interest per annum, payable quarterly, free of exchange.
Registered
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
©
LON© TERM
>«• .. \ >.
* MM
■
PI x’ >
O
■
iiiir
’ - ; v: ; x
per annum (compounded) 4 to 20 years Interest
automatically re-invested annually principal DOUBLES
in 11 years.
Established over 27 years.
Assets exceed £ 40,000,000
Underwriting Brokers to the Issue: lan Potter & Co.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Canberra.
Australia's Leading Hire Purchase Organization
Industrial
Acceptance
Corporation
ltd.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART
Requests for a* prospectus, when
available, may be made to
MEMBERS OF STOCK
EXCHANGES
and all Branches of the
£. S. & A. BANK LIMITED
NATIONAL BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
and 1
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
Business, Robbery, Etc.
U.S. Boom-bust Fears
■pCONOMIC observers in the
U.S.A. may not be unani-
mous, but most of them are 1
uneasy. ’ »
Secretary - of - the - Treasury
George Humphrey has expressed
the opinion that rising Federal
expenditures, unless checked,
would ultimately bring on “a
depression that would make your
hair curl.”
His opinion has been endorsed
by former Republican President
Herbert Hoover, who preceded
Roosevelt in depression-time
office.
President Eisenhower, in his
yearly economic report, was also v
concerned about inflation, but he
put the responsibility on
businessmen and trade-unionists
rather than on the Federal
Government. During 1956 out-
put per worker rose very slightly,
but wages went up 6 p.c.
This inflation fear persists
notwithstanding a year in which
automobile production fell 25
p.c., homebuilding 15 p.c., and
in which there was a five-weeks’
steel strike. Agriculture, textiles,
farm-machinery and some other
industries also suffered reverses.
In 1956 these 1 factors were
offset by high consumer-demand
for non-durable goods and
services, high activity in local-
government projects, and by a
22 p.c. increase in outlay on new
plant and equipment by private
industry.
The key to record U.S.
employment in 1956 was this
capital-goods boom; and in
1957 businessmen expecl to
spend at least 10 p.c. more on
capital-goods than they did in
1956.
But labor and materials are
now in short supply ; and to
superimpose a bigger Federal
post-Suez defence Budget on
the capital-goods demand by
private enterprise, particularly
in a period when output per
man-hour is lagging behind
wage-demands, is to create a
situation in which the inflation
element becomes very potent.
It is this boom-before-the-
bust prospect which Humphrey
and Hoover (as well as many
others) are principally alarmed
about. ' v
G. J. Coles and Co., Ltd.
■pAITH in fop-class chain-store
A shares has been justified
again in the case of G. J. Coles.
(It is remarkable the number of
small investors who are interested
in “Coles” and “Woolies”)
A 3-for-10 bonus - issue,
financed from the revaluation of
assets, is to be made to share-
hMders registered on April 30.
It will call for £2,054,853 in ss.
ords.
On the bonus-increased capital
a 3-for-10 cash issue at par will
be made to' ord. shareholders
registered on June 30. This issue
will raise £2,671,310.
Capital will increase altogether
from £6,999,513 to £11,725,676
—an expansion of £4,726,163, or
about 70 p.c. of the present ord.
capital. (There is a pref. issue of
£150,000 which the public took
up as recently as March, 1955.)
It is intended that the final
ord. div. for 1956-57 will be
reduced in rate so that the total
div. on the bonus-increased
capital will not exceed that
which would have been paid in a
15 p.c. div. on the present
£6,849,513 of ord. capital.
Assuming that the rate is lly
p.c., th'fe buyer of the ss. ords. at
235., cum rights to both issues,
would show a yield of slightly
under 4 p.c. after the new cash-
issue is fully-paid.
The new money is needed to
finance erection of the big new
Sydney ’ h.q. on the Sydney
Arcade, fronting Pitt-, George-
and King-streets, and to enlarge
and extend branch stores in
N.S.W. and other States.
Following the acquisition of
Mantons (Melbourne) and the
Penney’s (Q. and N.S.W.) chain
last year (from Burns Philp, for
3,000,000 ss. shares and
£1,025,000 in cash), G. J. Coles
has become the biggest retailer
in Australia.
President Consolidated
/"\N the day that G. J. Coles
■ and Co. announced its .bonus-
issue and par-issue, President
Consolidated, Ltd., reported a
loss of £741,350 for the year
which ended on June 30, 1956.
The two announcements
were characteristic of condi-
tions in Australian trade and
industry today: the well-
managed, “everyday” type
concern going from strength to
strength ; the “boom” concern
that mushroomed up under
humid economic conditions,
outgrew its financial strength,
and wilted after the first onset
of competitive trading.
Of President’s loss, £519,047
was incurred in distribution,
selling and servicing the co.’s
products (refrigerators, house-
hold electrical goods, etc.);
£211,951 was in respect of
manufacturing by subsidiaries ;
and £10,352 arose from the sale
of land and buildings, etc.
Accumulated losses now total
£878,163, compared with a paid
capital of £1,055,420, of which
£300,000 is in prefs.
Hopes of shareholders getting
anything out of the mess are
remote under prevailing condi-
tions.
Mcllwraith McEacharn, Ltd,
SCOTTISH HOUSE, Sydney
headquarters of Mcllwraith
McEacharq, the inter - State
shipping people,, is being put to
auction on February 20, with the
offer of vacant possession of the
vendoV’s ground-floor offices. It
will be interesting to see what
this 11-storied pile fetches. There
has been talk that half-a-million
would be a fair thing for it.
However that may be, it is
certain that the present-day
market-value of this one building
is more than the book-value of
all the properties of Mcllwraith
McEacharn—and they are to be
found in every mainland capital-
city (with headquarters in Mel-
bourne), as well as in Newcastle
and elsewhere.
At June 30, 1956, the book-
value of freehold and leasehold
properties stood in the co.’s
books at £245,406. That must be
only a fraction of their real
value.
The fleet is in the books at
£937,236, including the motor-
vessel Kanimbla and progress-
payments on two new 3450-ton
cargo-vessels. Low earning-
power of the fleet is shown by
the rate of net profit from all
sources—7.9 p.c. on capital last
year, after allowing for sums
charged against reserve for
surveys, overhauls and dockings.
Div. was an all-round-6 p.c.
Capital is £1 million, half in
ords., half in prefs. The prefs.
have all the financial rights
possessed by the ords., plus
priority as to a 5 p.c. minimum
div. and to return of capital. The
ords. have a high visible asset-
backing 425. a share, with
evidence of much more on a
revaluation basis, while the div.
is low and the present yield
correspondingly moderate.
Though assets, in a going
concern, are worth no more than
they can be made to earn, the
visible and inner strength in
Mcllwraith’s figures will remain
intriguing to those who are
prepared to indulge in a long-
term speculation, and in the
meantime to accept a return of
about 6 p.c. from both the ords.
(at 19s. 6d.) and the prefs.
(slightly higher).
N.S.W. Zinc Smelter v
OULPHIDE CORPORATION
(in the Consolidated Zinc
group) has plans for an £B-
- zinc-smelting, sulphuric-
acid and superphosphate plant
at Cockle Creek (near Newcastle.
N.S.W.).
( The new smelter will use the
new Imperial Smeltipg process
developed in the U.K. Imple-
mentation of the plans depends
on satisfactory long-term
arrangements for rail-transporta-
tion of concentrates from
Broken Hill and on the pro-
vision of some essential services.
The first smelting unit could
be in production in three years
and the project completed in six
years.
Capacity would be 47,000 tons
of zinc metal a year and, with
the help of existing plant,
470,000 tons of superphosphate
and 45,000 tons of sulphuric
acid.
Woodside, Victoria
[From L. Owen]
npHE deepening of Woodside
A No. 2 well, four miles north
of the southern end of the
Ninety Mile Beach which
forms such a striking feature of
the south-eastern coast of Gipps-
land —has not only constituted
a depth-record' for well-drilling
in Victoria but has brought to
light valuable, but apparently
not fully-appreciated, geological
information. In fact, the data
obtained parallel those obtained
when Westralia’s Cape ~ Range
No. 2 well was carried down to
15,047 ft. in December, 1955,
thus making it the deepest well
in the whole of the Southern
Hemisphere.
In previous issues of The
Bulletin, attention has been
drawn to similarities between
the geological histories of W.A.
and Victoria, and it isn’t sur-
prising that deep-drilling should
now reveal—both in the Cape
2 and Woodside 2 wells
—an almost identical absence of
rhythmic conditions during the
deposition of at least the upper
section of the Jurassic strati-
graphic column.
The lack of rhythmical move-
ment has very important impli-
cations which are fundamental
to a correct appreciation of the
geological history and existing
o Continued on next page )


WANTED TO BUY
Rough gem stones, e.g.,
sapphires, topaz, garnet,
zircon, spinel, etc., all
colours.
Please write:
P.O. BOX 52, LANE COVE,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
EMPEROR GOLD MINING
Co. Ltd.
Vatukoula, Fiji
Has Vacancies for Underground
Shift Bosses, single men pre-
ferred, liberal salary, fares paiid.
Climate and living conditions
excellent. If 3 year agreement
completed, generous bonuses
allowed.
Applications, with copies only of
references, should be addressed
to the care of
COOK, TOMLINS & MIRAMS,
360 Collins Street, Melbourne
NOW OPEN!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
5
LOAN
The N.S.W. Government guarantees
Your money for 5, 10 or 20 years /
£5/5/- per cent, is almost double savings bank interest. In 5 years £lOO
earns £26/5/- in the Loan, compared with £l3/15/- in a savings bank.
Your interest is payable half-yearly, direct to your bank account if you wish.
Your investment, interest payments, and repayment of principal at maturity
are free of exchange in terms of the Prospectus.
Trust Funds can also earn 5J per cent. : the Loan is an Authorised Trustee
Investment in Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
Decide today to step-up your income!
Your Loan investment can be
arranged in a few minutes—
# at any Commonwealth Trading Bank;
# through a Stockbroker;
® at the Sydney Water Board office.
Loan No, 173, issued at par, will close not later than 23rd February, 1957.
Underwritten by J. B. Were and Son.
structure of both the Carnarvon
and Gippsland Basins, and this
fact should be given due con-
sideration and weight in the
future exploratory programmes
for the search for oil in both
areas.
Cape Range 2 was completed
at the end of 1955 after pene-
trating over 11,000 ft. of almost
unchanging grey siltstone. At
the beginning of February of
this year, Woodside 2 had drilled
through 2500 ft. of similar strata
above the depth of 8500 ft. In
both wells, these long columns
were capped by relatively porous
and permeable beds that at
Cape Range producing brackish
water from the Birdrong sand-
stone at 3640 ft., and that at
Woodside traces of oil from
5640 ft.; in each case, the porous
stratum was at, or near to, the
Jurassic land-surface.
The Wapet programme for
1956 showed no sign of any real
appreciation of the importance of
the Cape Range results —which
had a very significant bearing
not only upon the conception of
the Exmouth Gulf geological
structure but also upon the
translation of geophysical survey
data into structure. Nor does
the 1957 programme, as revealed *
to date, offer any hope of such
realisation. It is too early, at
the moment, to pass any opinion
as to whether the Victorian
operations are to be modified in
view of the momentous informa-
tion brought to light by the
deepening of Woodside 2.
The Australian mainland never
has been, and never will be, a
“normal” oil prospect; but, up
to the present, the search for
petroleum has been conducted
here either on “text-book” prin-
ciples or—in the case of some
of the less - knowledgeable
organisations—by “wild-catting”
reckless to the point of absurdity.
It is high time that stock be
taken of the position and that
full use be made of the experi-
ence which has been obtained
from the exploration and
exploitation of oilfields with
a geological history and
geological environment possess-
ing similarities to those of this
country.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Expansion or recession?
Mild inflation of mild
deflation? Cheaper money? Cuts
in Government expenditure?
Reduced taxation?
The annual reports of the
bank chairmen have highlighted
these conflicting questions. Their
analyses of our economic potenti-
alities and shortcomings have
many points in common but offer
little guidance to the new
Chancellor of the Exchequer.
All are agreed that our
economic position, if promising,
is essentially precarious, and that
the margin we are working on
is much too narrow for safety.
Undoubtedly, this realisation
accounts for their reticence.
None of them, for example, has
commented on the present slow-
down in industrial investment,
although Sir Oliver Franks,
chairman of Lloyds Bank, saw
“no advantage in building
factories and paying for them by
the loss of gold.”
Obviously there are so many
imponderables just now that no
one, however prescient, can con-
fidently pronounce, let alone
forecast: the effects of Suez, the
uncertainty of fuel supplies and
the performance of the new
Government all are, as yet,
unaccountable.
That the credit-squeeze has
worked is undeniable, but
whether the time has arrived for
relaxation is open to doubt. The
chairmen, for all their dislike of
dear and scarce money, have two
main qualifications: the demand
for bank-advances has not been
reduced; and the efficacy of
credit-control has been marred
by high public expenditure and
heavy taxation. Moreover, they
feel that internal spending has
not been sufficiently curbed;
that savings are still too low,
and that the strain on our
resources hasn’t been taken
seriously enough. '
Lower Bank-rate
Meanwhile, the controversy
over bank-rate sharpens. The
investing public and many
economists have been urging an
acceptance of reality and a
reduction, by two stages of \ p.c.,
to the p.c. which is con-
sidered the normal “high.”
The first reduction happened
last Thursday. Whether there
will be a second depends on
several things.
The bank chairmen are
guarded. What they would like
is a reduction in short-term
rates (because of the present high
cost of interest on the sterling
balances held by overseas
countries and also because of
the check to capital-investment
in industry) and a continuance
of high rates over the longer
term (to check internal demand).
And they want this without the
imposition of rigid controls-,
which they naturally abhor.
(There is also the purely tech-
nical reason that they want their
own liquidity tightened a 6 a
result of substantial funding.)
The rate for Treasury-bills has
fallen below 4f p.c., and the
Stock Exchange had already dis-
counted a reduction in bank-
rate of \ p.c. It is prob-
able that the authorities
share the view of Lord Alden-
ham, chairman of the West-
minster Bank, that “we shall
none of us feel comfortable
until short-term rates are reduced
but that it would be rash to shine
a bright-green light to the restive
financial traffic-block.
In the view of the City, there
are other, more pressing, matters
for concern. One is the crying
need for the reform of company-
taxation and for the abandon-
ment, at least in part, of political
bias. And the second is the
propensity of certain companies,
especially those linked to possible
re-nationalisation of steel, to
finance themselves out of
retained profits. Dorman Long,
less of a political risk than
others, had a stormy general
meeting. Some 200 hostile share-
holders rejected the accounts by
a show of hands but were
defeated by proxies. The con-
tention is that not only does the
shareholder suffer, but that also
this kind of managerial auto-
cracy sends up the prices.
Swagger and Slum
Seeing Congreve after
Wycherley leaves no doubt as to
the difference in quality. Con-
greve is incomparably the finer.
His dialogue is richer, his wit
unforced, and his situations
unstrained. The literary content,
too, is high. Yet the failure of
“The Way of the World” caused
him to - withdraw from the
theatre.
John Clements’s revival at the
Saville Theatre is a remarkably
smooth production. "Though
polished and technically sure, it
lacks the enchantment which
inspired “The Rivals” last year.
Probably the reason is an old
one that a leading actor
shouldn’t also produce. Neither
the story nor the characters are
brought out, and the dynamics
are neglected. Something more
is needed than full-bottomed
wigs and fine clothes. All the
players speak well and make light
of the traditional styles; but
most of them seen! not to know
what they represent. Vet
Margaret Rutherford blends
grossness with comedy a 3 Lady
Wishfort, and Raymond Francis
makes a splendidly bucolic Sir
Wilful. This, of all the classics,
demands the < refinements of
meticulous, detached production.
Inadequacies of direction also
account for an entertaining, if
odd, revival of O’Casey’s “The
Shadow of a Gunman” by a
company - calling themselves the
Irish Players who appear to be
both rather mixed and itinerant,
since they can’t find a regular
theatre. In Jack MacGowran
they have a comedian who, with
the dance-band leader, Roy Fox,
is also joint “angel.” If his
business aptitude is only half that
of his comic gift, our pools-
promoters and take-over bidders
should look to their millions.
Seumas Shields, the feckless
pedlar of the Dublin tenement,
is in many ways a richer
character than either “Captain”
Boyle or Joxer Daly. Mac-
Gowran’s interpretation
is astounding: he fetches lalighs
even when covered up in bed.
But, unfortunately, his queasy
exuberance throws the play a
little out of balance. The main
point—that the self-conceit of
two worthless men, one a
pretending patriot and the other
a loquacious humbug, should
allow an innocent girl to go to
her death in saving their lives —
is lost in an uproarious orgy of
guffaws.
Nonetheless, the play is
interesting. It was O’Casey’s
first and bears his graphic per-
sonality more cogently even
than “Juno and the Paycock”—
and there is no conventional
deflowering of maidenly inno-
cence to spoil its message. The
acting, too, is open-hearted and
unashamed. All that it needs
is a tighter-reined production.


Does your WILL
The Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTD. '
still express your intentions?
Incorporated in Victoria in 1(71
TR34A.35
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUIH WALES DIRECTORS:
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets and other factors may affect
the intentions expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desirable that you
consult your solicitor and have your Will revised periodically to meet
changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages of appointing The Trustees
Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. as your Executor. Its appointment gains
for your Estate, at a fixed and moderate charge, the services of a company
with over three-quarters of a century’s specialised experience in the
Administration of Estates.
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £972,657.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D.S.O.
Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H.
M.C., V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jone*; J. Cuming
Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., Y.D.; W. E. M. Campbell.
David Wilson MA„ LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.. E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
United Provisions, Ltd.
"DARNINGS from this large ham- and
bacon-curer, meat-canner and small-
goods manufacturer have followed an
erratic course ever since the co. was
formed in 1927 to amalgamate the in-
terests of Foggit Jones Pty. and J. C.
Hutton Pty. As a consequence the share-
market regards the scrip with an under-
standable degree of caution, and, bearing
in mind that 32 p.c. of the £1,400,000
paid capital is in 8 p.c. prefs,, prices
the f.-p. £1 ords, at 165., to return 10 p.c.
from an 8 p.c. div. The £1 prefs. bring
around 21s. 2d. to return 7.5 p.c., and
enjoy a net tangible backing of £4 19s. 6d.,
compared with 375. lOd. for the ords.
United Provisions, Ltd., wholly owns
thiee subsidiaries, J. C.„ Hutton Pty.,
Foggit Jones Pty. and J. C. Hutton
(N.Z.), Ltd., and recently disposed of a
fourth offshoot, Vulcan Can Pty., of
Brisbane. In addition to supplying Aus-
tralia and N.Z. markets, the operating
cos. also export canned meats, butter,
cheese, hams and bacon, as well as frozen
meat. The group operates 17 factories,
twelve in Australia and five in N.Z.
Over the last decade ord. divs. have
averaged 5.7 p.c., a slight improvement
on the average in the preceding ten
years. Factors which have helped to
limit profits and bring about an uneven
earning-rate include changes in both over-
seas conditions and demand, seasonal
variations in supply and cost of livestock,
the effect of rising internal costs on export
trade, and the relatively high price
originally paid (in scrip) for the operating
cos.
Last term (to September 30) the operat-
ing cos. increased their turnover by
about £324,000 to £9,308,000, but higher
livestock prices and strong competition,
especially m overseas markets, pared-
down profit-margins. Provision for
taxation, £89,731 (included in the
accounts for the first time), was £20,269
under the previous term’s estimate, and,
after allowing £89,328 (up £14,371) for
depreciation, net earnings at £122,363
were £79,467 below the record figure
claimed in 1955:
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£ £ ' £ £
1951.. 78,103 8 p.c. 5 p.c. 83,600 324,845
Profit sale assets, £47,518 .. .. 372,363
Unexplained reduction, £4294 .. 368,069
1952. .119,430 8 p.c. 0 p.c. 93,000 26,430 394,499
Profit sale assets, £24,155 .. .. 418,654
1953.. 86,737 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 93,000 412,391
Profit sale assets, £152,761 .. .. 565,152
Unexplained reduction, £5OOO .. 560,152
1954.. 49,768 8 p.c. 4 p.c. 74,000 535,920
Profit sale assets, £26,887 .. .. 562,807
Unexplained reduction, £ll,OOO . . 551,807
1955. .201,830 8 p.c. 8 p.c.112,000 89,830 641,637
Add adjustments- tax, etc., £3220 644,857
Surplus, sale investments, etc.,
£129 135 .. . . 773 992
Revaluation freeholds, £354,460 . . 1,128,452
Accumulated long - service leave,.
£30,000 1,098,452
Unexplained reduction, £6030 .. 1,092,422
1956. .122,303 8 p.c. 8 p.c.112,000 10,363 1,102,785
* Subject to intangibles, £288,763 at 30/9/’56.
The £122,363 covered the 8 p.c. pref. div.
and a shade over 9 p.c. on ord. capital,
as against 17.4, 1.4, 5.3, 8.7 and 4.4 p.c.
in the five preceding years. During the
term the sale of real-estate and invest-
ments, including Vulcan. Can Pty.,
resulted in a surplus of £129,135, while
revaluation of land and buildings in
Australia (to 70 p.c. of present-day
values) increased their book-value by
£354,460, reserves jumping from £641,637
to £1,102,785 over the year.
For some years the board has been
disposing of surplus assets and devoting
the proceeds to the re-equipping of the
group’s main factories and the improve-
ment of production procedures. Changes
last term, involving the sale of a sub-
sidiary and the purchase of the assets of
two Melbourne cos., necessitated con-
siderable reorganisation, and, to an
extent, ( affected trading profits, but the
board considers that these moves will,
in due course, “immeasurably strengthen
the local trading potential” of the sub-
sidiaries. The two Melbourne cos. which
sold their assets to the group were
William Say Pty. and Preston Meatworks
Pty.
Revaluation accounted for £354,460 of
the net £625,852 added to fixed assets,
the book-value of plant increasing by
£141,038:
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital- .. £1,4a0,000 £1,400,000 £1,400,000
Reserves .. .. 573,240* 751.637* 1,102,785
Mortgage . . . . 79,000
Overdraft .. ... 923,771 702,334 842,971
Creditors . . . . 376,569 410,527 578,123
Suspense account.. 1,097 346 598
Staff fund .. 7\951 14,730 34,531
Tax provision .. 89,731
Final divs. .. 74,000 112,000 112,000
£3,356,634 £3,391,574 £4,239,739
Freeholds, etc. .. 672,334 761,075 1,245,889
Plant, etc. .. 391,060 438,695 579,733
Shares .. .. 11,634 11,639 11,659
Stocks . . . . 1,461,902 1,391,189 1,472,998
Debtors ~ .. 606,281 476,620 583,878
Cash . . .. . 21.57 S 20,536 56,819
Intangibles! .. 291,845 291,820 288,763
£3,356,034 £3,391,574 £4,239,739
* Before deducting estimated tax liability.
t Mainly differences between book-value and par
value of inter-co. shareholdings.
Debtors rose by £107,258 to £583,878,
but at this figure still amounted to only
6.2 p.c. of turnover. To help finance the
capital-expenditure and the heavier
debtors and stocks (up £81,809), the co,
acquired a £79,000 mortgage, stretched
its overdraft by £140,637, and increased
its indebtedness to creditors by £167,596.
The group should benefit from the new
plant and procedures introduced over
the past year or so, but both the local
and overseas markets for its highly
regarded products remain keenly-
competitive.
Concrete Industries (Australia), Ltd.
lndustries has just com-
pleted its twentieth term in the
concrete-construction trade. During the
last ten of them conditions have been
particularly favorable to development,
and the co.’s management has imple-
mented its plans with vigor and a satisfy-
ing degree of success. There are signs that
the next few years will be just as good.
The co. was begun originally in N.S.W.
as Cement Linings, Ltd., to exploit
patented processes for reconditioning iron
and steel water-mains. Steady growth
followed, and branches of the business
were opened in all the other mainland
States. Then, in 1941, it joined up with
Concreters, Ltd., and Monier Industries,
Ltd., two other cos. interested in concrete-
pipe construction work.
The present holding co. took over after
the end of the war in 1946, when a 45-acre
site at Villawood, near Sydney, was
bought from the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. There a whole range of concrete
products, including pipes, tiles, bricks,
wall- and floor-beams and panels, etc.,
are turned out by the various operating
subsidiaries for hofnebuilders, public
authorities and industry.
Policy has been to finance development
• from share-capital rather than by holding
back profits, which has meant that while
shareholders have received the immediate
benefits (and they have been pretty sub-
stantial), not much' strength has been
evident in reserves, £124,020 at June 30
last (subject to £18,567 of intangibles).
Subscribed capital was £919,000 (all in
£1 ordinaries), an increase of £198,782 on
the previous year, and up from £lOO,OOO
in 1946. Average dividend-rate over the
20 years, including a pretty lean war-time
period, was 8.2 p.c. For the last six
years a steady 10 p.c. has been paid.
Last term the co. allowed an extra
£18,405 (£60,215) depreciation and
£20,500 (£67,000) tax before writing profit
at £104,569, up £26,721 on 1955 and
equal to 13.1 p.c. on average capital com-
pared with a mean return since 1950
of 12.2 p.c.:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. / Dividend. , serves, serves.*
£ £ £
Assets revalued, £46,000 .. •• 88,3<1
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 _..
Capital-issue exp. written-off, £1667.. 36 ,i04
1951.. 52,638 10 p.c. = 34,359 18,279 54,983
Capital-issue exp', written-off, £1667.. 53,316
1952 ..53,001 IV p.c. = 45,756 7,245 60,061
1953.. 57,503 10 „ ~54,347 3,156 63,(1i
Share premiums, £6870 . . .. , J0,58i
Capital-issue exp. written-off, £3601.. 66,986
1954.. 67,097 10 p.c. = 58,232 8,865 <5,80l
1955.. 77,748 10 „ ~70,870 6,9i8 82,829
Share premiums, £750 • • •• 83,5 1 9
Excess of net assets of subsidiary cos.
over cost of shares purchased £15,005 98,584
Profit sale assets, £3850 .. •• 102,434
Capital-issue exp. written-off, £2818.. 99,616
1956. .104,569 10 p.c.'=80,165 24,404 124,020
* Subject to intangibles, £18,567 at 30/6/’56.
All subsidiaries in the group appear to
have done well. Further progress was
made in the “dry-construction” method
of building (which involves the use of
pre-stressed- and precast-concrete), and
the co. is now regarded as specialists in
the field. New concrete-pipe factories
were opened at Newcastle and Brisbane,
and in the second half of the year the
Redland Tiles offshoot started up its
plant for making concrete-tiles of Roman
design. By an exchange of shares during
the term this co. became a wholly-owned
subsidiary.
Since the close of the year arrange-
ments have been made, on undisclosed
terms, to take over the business of
Preload Corporation (Aust.) Pty.,, Ltd,,
which holds the Australian rights to an
American process for pre-stressing con-
crete-reservoirs and -pipes. A far more
interesting development is the co.’s
entry, in association with tilemakers
Porter and Galbraith, Ltd., into the field
of lightweight aggregates. New to Aus-
tralia, these aggregates, which are manu-
factured from certain types of clays and
shales, make possible worth-while savirtgs
in building-costs.
Balance-sheet figures reflect the
expansion:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955. 195 G.
Paid capital .. £687,746 £720,218 £888,752
Reserves . . . . 75,851 . 82,829 124,020
Overdraft . . .. 224,690 189,243 482,075
Creditors . . .. 190,223 223,504 ' 329,795
Tax prov’n .. 29,618 43,587 69,092
Final divs. .. 80,732 35,819 40,836
• , £1,238,860 £1,295,200 £1,935,200
Land, buildings,
plant ..' .. 494,312 525,838 809,308
Shares, etc. .. 66,045 66,539 2,000
Stock . . . . 380,159 422,295 703,259
Debtors, etc. .. 279,350 261,505 401,397
Cash . . . . 427 ' 456 669
Intangibles .. 18,567 18,567 18,567
£1,238,860 £1,295,200 £1,935,200
Most of the additional finance needed
■ came from outside the business, on bank-
overdraft (up £293,432) and from creditors
(up £106,291). Shareholders took up
103,174 £1 ords., and the rest of the new
capital was accounted for by issues to
employees and by exchanges of shares.
When the books were ruled-off the
more-or-less liquid surplus was £182,927.
For every £ belonging to shareholders,
there was 16s. of the bank’s and creditors’
money in the business.
At 30s. 6d. the f.-p. £1 ords. are priced
to return 6.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover, including uncalled
capital, is 225. 4d. a share.
Malcolm Moore Industries, Ltd.
THE poor demand for roadmaking,
earthmoving and farm equipment
affected the earnings of Malcolm Moore
Industries, Ltd., last term, and the div.,
on a greatly enlarged ord. capital, was
cut from 15 p.c. to 7\ p.c.
Formed as a holding co. in 1946,
Malcolm Moore Industries controls a
group of subsidiaries engaged in civil,
mechanical and heavy engineering. The
principal manufacturing and distributing
offshoots are:
Moore Road Machinery pty., Ltd.
(Roadmaking-, earth moving and farm
equipment, trucks and tractors.)
Moore Conveyor Co. Pty., Ltd. (Bulk-
handling- conveyor systems.)
Moore Crane and .Engineering Co. Pty.
Ltd. (Various types of mobile cranes,
etc.) ’
Moore Hydraulic Pty., Ltd. (Valves,
pumps, tractor - attachments, hydraulic
transmissions, etc., used in other group
products and in industry and agricul-
ture.)
Moore Engineering (Cooma) Pty., Ltd.
(Steelwork and equipment for contractors
on the Snowy Mountains project.)
The parent’s paid capital. £500,000 in
1951, reached £1,840,000 last term, a
one-for-one issue in 1952 (at a 100 p.c.
premium) being followed late in 1955
by another one-for-one offering, this time
at par. There are 400,000 £1 5 p.c. prefs.
The group serves an Australia-wide
market, and, although the volume of sub-
contracting work in the Snowy Moun-
tains area led to the establishment of a
subsidiary in that district, the majority
of manufactured items are turned-out
in factories in or around Melbourne.
Installation of cranes and conveyors is
carried out in all parts of the country.
The contraction of public-authority
spending on capital works, unseasonable
weather, and the scarcity of credit, com-
bined to cause a “major setback” to the
road-machinery subsidiary last term,
and, although the crane and conveyor
cos. made a good showing, net earnings
fell by £30,223 to £153,087 after provid-
ing £52,982 (up £9537) for depreciation
and £99,500 for taxation:
(Consolidated Figures.)
, Dividends. Nominal
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
Surplus sale of assets, £4476 .. .. 296,571
Share premiums, £87,500 .. ..384,071
1952. . 150,534 18,334 20 pic. = 71,666 60,534 444,605
Surplus sale assets, £784 .. ..445,389
Share-premiums, £256,137 .. ..701,526
1953.. 155,278 20,000 20 p.c. = 93,542 41,736 743,262
Share-premiums, £6363 .. 749,625
Surplus sale assets, £2425 .. ..752,050
1954. .176,994 20,000 15 p.c. = 97,500 59,494 811,544
1955. .183,310 20,000 15 „ ~ 97,500 65,810 877,354
Overprovisions for tax, £45,077 .. 922,431
1956. .153,087 20,000 74 p.e.=71,750 61,337 983,708
* Subject to intangibles, £21,046 at June 30, 1956.
The impact of Moore Road Machinery
losses was apparently softened by a
“special recoupment of £131,250 in
respect of expenses” incurred by that co.
“Some indeterminate portion” of these
expenses related to activities in “prior
years.” Overprovisions for tax in previ-
ous terms, Amounting to £45,077, were
written-back, and, with retained earnings,
made the total addition to reserves
£106,414. Nevertheless earnings, after
satisfying pref.-holders, represented only
13.9. p.c. of average ord. capital, com-
pared with 25.1, 24.1, 28.9 and 36.9 p.c.,
back to 1952, and, with no immediate
improvement in earnings likely, the
board recommended a p.c. div. rather
than the 10 p.c. div. anticipated when
the new share-issue was made. On ord.
capital as it stood at the end of the term
the return was 9.2 p.c.
Proceeds from the share-issue assisted
the group to overcome its shortage of
working-capital and enabled it to carry
the large quantity of slow-moving items
in its inventory. At the end of the term
stocks at £2,643,490 (up £213,588)
accounted for well over half the value
given to total assets:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Ord 650,000 650,000 1,440,000
Reserves .. .. 811,544 877,354 983,768
Overdraft .. 411,57 3 1,451,33 5 752,308
Creditors .. 460,990 592,650 856,34 a
Tax provision .. 131,761 147,483 101,90»
Final div. .. 68,50 0 68,50 0 43,000
£2,934,368 £4,187,222 £4,577,326
Freeholds .. 227,109 347,446 394,136
Leaseholds .. 276,904 275,497 276, On
Plant, etc. .. 407,890 551,223 586,008
Investments .. 5,087 5,087 5,08<
Loan .. .. 63,098
Stock . . . . 1,616,700 2,429,902 2,643,490
Debtors . . .. 380,775 553,138 571,584
Deposits, etc. .. 7,744 12,770 17»<®“
Intangibles .. 12,159 12,159 21,046
£2,934,368 £4,187,222 £4,577,326
Despite an increase of £263,795 in the


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
trade Marks.—Advt,
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-88 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant super-
vision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
r Insurance Brokers and. Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY ... BU 3445
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LTD.
Service...
and Savings
THIS BANK PROVIDES
MODERN FACILITIES FOR BOTH
Service is a tradition with
this Bank. Its wide network
of branches and agencies
enables it to meet the bank-
ing needs of its customers.
The long experience of its
officers and their friendly
advice are available to all—
the businessman, the house-
wife and every member of
the family.
4%
\
V
The C.B.C. Savings Bank
Limited makes modern sav-
ings account facilities avail-
able, with the minimum
delay, at all branches and
agencies of the Bank in New
South Wales, Victoria, Queens-
land, Western Australia and
Australian Capital Territory.
Deposits in C.B.C. Savings
Bank Limited are guaranteed
by the Parent Company.
The Banks officers will be glad to tell you how its
services can help you.
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
amount owing to creditors, total
liabilities decreased by £506,310,
the bank overdraft shrinking by
£699,027.
The demand for construction
equipment and farm machinery
has shown no improvement in
the current term, but, with most
subsidiaries operating on a
satisfactory basis, no difficulty is
expected in at least maintaining
earnings at last term’s level.
Long-term prospects are more
promising, sales of farm
machinery are expected to
improve with a return to normal
seasonal conditions, while the
demand for constructional equip-
ment is, to a large degree, held
in check by Government financial
policies.
An agreement under which the
co. would manufacture
“Challenger” crawler tractors
was announced in 1955 and
deliveries with a “between 20
p.c. and 30 p.c. Australian
content” were expected to
commence early in 1956.
Although one of the -reasons
given for last term’s share-issue
was the need for finance to
develop “the manufacture and
distribution” of the tractors,
neither the directors’ nor the
'chairman’s reports refer to the
project.
The 5 p.c. prefs. last sold at
13s. 6d. to yield 7.4 p.c., the
f.-p. £1 ords. at 19s. 3d. return-
ing 7.7 p.c. from a p.c. div.
The consolidated balance-sheet
showed a net tangible backing of
£7 os. 2d. for the prefs. and
335. 4d. for the ords.
Ford Sherington Holdings
V7ERY little remains of the tax-
r free reserves, in which Ford
Sherington has found most of
its dividends since converting to
a public co. in 1950.
After paying p.c. tax-free
on last term’s 10 p.c. ord. div.,
the remaining 2\ p.c., plus the
pref. charges, was met from
current earnings.
Near-exhaustion of the reserve
raises the question of the
possibility of a lift in the ord.
div.-rate to compensate for the
loss of their taxation advantages
by shareholders? On ’Change the
sharemarket expresses its hopes
of an increase in the dividend (or
other benefits) by pricing the ss.
scrip at Bs. 6d. for an immediate
return of 5.9 p.c. The co. would
seem placed comfortably enough
to manage something of the sort
except for the fact that import-
controls are keeping it short of
fibre for suitcase-manufacture.
Despite a drop in last year’s
profit, the co. earned enough to
cover the £3644 pref. div. and
show 21.2 p.c. (compared with
29.3 p.c. in 1955) on its ordinary
capital, still more than twice the’
10 p.c. ord. div. that has been
distributed for the last six years.
And the business doesn’t
appear by any means to be short
of funds, though the board
doesn’t disclose what future
developments, if any, are likely.
Notwithstanding a substantial
outlay during the term on fixed
assets (the co. completed the
erection of its new factories at
Perth and Brisbane), it finished
the year with a more-or-less
liquid surplus (working-capital)
of £136,454, and a current ratio
of nearly 2.6 to 1. Outside
money (mortgage and trade-
credit) helped more, but on the
balancing of accounts on June
30 shareholders owned 77.8 p.c.
of all funds used in the
business: x
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 1956.
Pref. .. .. £45,550 £45,550
Ord. .. .. 100,000 100,000
Reserves .. .. 203,583 216,776
Mortgage .. .. 7,955 15,967
Creditors .. .. 41,524 47,876
Tax provision .. 27,744 32,740
Pinal divs. .. .. 6,822 6,822
£433,178 £465,731
Land, .. 86,439 129,516
Plant, etc 38,021 37,323
Stock r. . . .. 99,830 110,167
Debtors 49,651 44,672
Cash, bonds .. 84,237 69,053
Intangibles .. .. 75,000 75,000
£433,178 £465,731
Trading for most of the term
was on a strongly competitive
rate, and with lower turnovers
and higher costs, profit con-
tracted by £8152 to £24,796 :
Parent and Subsidiaries.
f Dividends ■-> Re-
June, Profit. Pref. , Ord. serves.*
£ £ £
Tax overprovided, £1146.. 124,739
Preliminary exp. written off,
£985 . . 123 754
1951.. 32.886 3644 10 p.c.=10,066 142!996
1952.. 3644 10 „ „ 10,000 150,194
Exchange premium, £491 .. 165,126
Tax overprovided, £B2 .. 150,767
1953- 3644 10 p.c.=10,000 164,635
Exchange premium, £491 .. 165,126
Tax overprovided, £26 .. 165,152
1954- 3644 10 p:c.=l0,000 183,539
Exchange premium, £613.. 184,152
Tax overprovided, £l2B .. 184,280
1955- 3644 10 p.c.=10,000 203,584
Profit sale bonds, £79 .. 203,663
Exchange premium, £1962 205,625
1956- 3644 10 p.c.-10,000 216,777
* Subject to intangibles, £75,000 at
30/6/’56.
That ignores a gain of £1962 (up
£1349), the exchange-premium on
a dividend from the South
African subsidiary and a £79
profit from the sale of Common-
wealth bonds. Tax-provision was
£1397 heavier at £25,117 and
depreciation allowance down
£Bl to £3301.
In their report the directors
said they anticipated difficulty
this year in securing enough raw
material from abroad to mlet
their needs.
Moina Tungsten-Tin
r THE improved production
A aimed at by Moina Tungsten
Tin Mining Co., N.L., hasn’t
brought success, and it is seek-
ing a Commonwealth subsidy to
enable wolfram and fin produc-
tion to be continued at the 64-
year-old S. and M. mine, Moina,
Northern Tasmania.
Current wolfram prices are
less than half those ruling early
in 1953, when Moina was
formed, and continuing operat-
ing losses have forced an almost
complete halt in mining activity.
Unless assistance is received, the
directors envisage the ending of
all operations this month,
followed by the liquidation of
. the co.
Only six months ago Moina
offered 300,000 ss. 10 p.c. parti-
cipating prefs. to shareholders
and the public to provide the
funds required' to increase mine-
output. No calls were to be
made on the scrip (paid to 25.)
as long as its market-value was
less than 150 p.c. of the paid-up
value.
The last accounts (March, ’56)
showed current assets and
deposits at £13,124 and liabilities
at £12,638. Paid capital is now
£269,000.
New Merloo Gold Mines
SHAREHOLDERS in New
° Merloo Gold Mines, N.L.,
will be asked this - month to
approve an agreement giving the
National Lead Co., of U.S.A.,
and Arthur Vickery, of Sydney,
an option to buy 2,384,000
shares in the New Merloo co.
New Merloo at present con-
trols approximately 500 acres on
the Tennant Creek (N.T.) field,
and it is proposed to issue one
share, paid to Is. 6d., for every
shilling expended by the option-
holders on exploration and
development-work on the co.’s
leases.
The co. was formed in March,
last year, shareholders in Merloo
Gold Mines, N.L., being offered
one New Merloo 2s. 6d. share
for each f.-p. 2s. 6d. share held
in the old co. On payment of
6d. the new co.’s shares were
credited as paid to Is., and,
some months later, a call of 6d.
brought the paid-up figure to
Is. 6d. No further calls will be
made, under the proposed agree-
ment, until the purchasers have
taken-up all of the 2,384,000
shares, involving an expenditure
of £119,200.
New Merloo scrip last sold at
Is. sd.
Uranium Holdings, N.L.
HTHE results of test-drilling on
areas held by Uranium
Holdings, N.L., near Mullum-
bimby (N.S.W.), have not yet
been made public although a
“final report” was expected last
December.
Meanwhile the co. has com-
pleted an agreement to purchase
leases covering 302 acres in the
Tewantin (Q.) area from Aus-
tralian Mining and Smelting Co.,
Ltd., and the Consolidated Zinc
subsidiary, Titanium and Zir-.
conium Industries Pty.
Basing its calculations on
reports made by Consolidated
Zinc staff, who earlier tested the
area, the Uranium Holdings
board estimates that there are
20,174 tons of recoverable rutile
(at an 80 p.c. recovery) and
22,731 tons of zircon within the
boundaries of the leases. (The
co. abandoned its search for
uranium early last year.)
The purchase-price of the
leases, £100,870, is based on a
charge of £5 a ton of estimated
recoverable rutile, but the
method ,of financing the. project
has yet to be announced.
On October 31 last the co. had
£40,536 in current assets (mainly
cash), £23,419 in loans and listed
investments, and £13,063 in fixed
assets. Liabilities amounted to
£623 and intangibles to £86,105.
The £162,500 paid capital is in
ss. shares paid to 2s. 6d., the
scrip selling at around Is.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
Conversation switched a little from
opera-house designs during the past week
to what seems the far-less-important
subjects of singer Sinatra’s cancelled tour
and the resignation of Michael Parker
as equerry to the Duke of Edinburgh.
As for Crankie Frankie S. (his new
name), the people on the Eastern Suburbs
line will probably breathe a sigh of relief,
for the traffic-jams those Stadium showS
cause are the source of many a headache
At a recent official reception most of the
guests from that part of Sydney were
more than an hour late because of the
hold-up, and some were still arriving
when the other guests were leaving.
About Michael Parker, most people
are arguing whether or not he should
have resigned from the Duke’s service
because his wife had left him. It seems
so odd to hear one and all expressing
opinions on what is apparently an in-
volved and certainly a personal subject.
As he is a local boy, many people identify
his success or failure with their own,
and so the matter assumes an importance
which is out of proportion to the facts.
Still, the opera-house design is holding
its own. There is to be a debate on the
subject at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
B. P. MacFarlan at Neutral Bay on the
evening of Friday,. February 22. The
proceeds are in aid of the St. John
Ambulance Brigade. The leaders of the
debate are well-known architects Walter
Bunning and Harry Seidler. Should be
interesting.
* * *
First-nighters to “The Mikado” did not
agree that there was “beauty in the
bellow of the blast” when they had to
brave, a heavy hailstorm to be there
when the curtain went up. But nearly
all arrived on time and had an enjoyable
night. The costumes were new, ( striking
and effective, though they made use of
colors which are generally regarded 'as
old-fashioned. The chorus of schoolgirls
were in kimonos of mauve and Parma-
violet, while the “three little maids” wore
kimonos of eau-de-Nil trimmed with
salmon-pink. It is a long time since these
colors have been seen, but their impact
was quite dramatic.
☆ ☆ tl '
'“What will be worn in autumn ’57?” is
the question agitating all those who are
now preparing their wardrobe for the
Easter-season in Sydney. To get a clue or
two, smart Sydney flocked to the autumn-
showings of Germaine Rocher* which
included many French models in both
day-wear and evening-wear.
Clue one was that the dress with the
matching-jacket or full-length coat seems
to be nudging the well-established suit out
of a place. The dresses are slim enough
to accommodate about half the average
person, the coats voluminous enough to
accommodate two.
Clue two was that all the colors are
muted: black, cinnamon, charcoal,
cream, and pale, pale citron. Red is the
only exception. It is vivid and frequent.
Clue three is that nearly all the ballet-
length dresses are in black or in red —
velvet or chiffon.
Clue four is that the most striking
evening-line is high-waisted, full-length
and triangular (with your head as the
apex). The bouffant evening-gown was
little in evidence.
■ft ☆ 7 \
The Metropolitan Operetta Society
goes into the Empire Theatre on March
5 with Franz Lehar’s musical-comedy,
“Land of Smiles.” There’s quite a bright
cast, led by American soprano Nina
Cooke and tenor Allan Ferris. Support-
ing are Neil Easton, Florence Pong, Ivor
Bromley, Wesley Whalen, with the Rudas
Ballet and complete operetta orchestra
and chorus under the direction of Ivan
Rixon. The season is limited to four
weeks.
# ty
“A Night Under the Stars” is to be
held at the lovely home of Mr. and Mrs.
Roy McCaughey, Hopton Lodge, Bay-
view, on Saturday, February 23. Pro-
ceeds are in aid of Dr. Barnardo’s Homes,
entertainment will include showing
of The Jolson Story ' and other interest-
ing films in technicolor. This has been
arranged by Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Chauvel.
Plans for the social functions of the
season are being set in motion. During
the week the committee for the Peter Pan
Ball was formed, with Mrs. Norman Hill
as president’. The ball will be held at
Prince’s on April 12.
The date for the International Ball was
set for Thursday, August 1, at the meeting
held at the Australia Hotel during the
week. Mrs. C. M. Guiney was re-elected
president of the ball-committee, and
Mrs. K. Pointing secretary.
t: i 4 *
M. Dior’s reported remark that he liked
all hats “except the three-cornered scarf
tied under the chin” reminds one of the
story about the fashionable woman who
asked a designer for a very special hat.
“Something like this?” asked the designer,
twisting up a piece of ribbon, fixing it
with a few pins and arranging it on her.
head. “Why, that’s divine!” said the
woman. “Just sew it together as it is and
I’ll have it. How much?” The designer
named 20-guineas as the price, much to
the woman’s indignation. “Twenty-
guineas for a little piece of ribbon!” she
screamed. “Madam,” said the designer,
taking out the pins and handing the
length to her, “the ribbon is free.”
Pretty Ursula Finlay, who has; been
married just two months (she is Mrs.
H. O. Woodhouse), has just won the part
of Grace Storefield, second feminine lead
in the film “Robbery Under Arms.”
Ursula is the only daughter of the
A.B.C.’s assistant - general - manager
“Huck” Finlay and Mrs. Finlay. She
apparently inherits her theatrical ability
from her mother, who was Frances
Ogilvy before her marriage and partnered
Robert Helpmann (“Bobby” in those
days) for more than two years in Mel-
bourne productions. Ursula, formerly a
Sydney journalist, has lived since her
marriage in Adelaide, where her husband
is associated with a firm of industrial
chemists. When the “Robbery Linder
Arms” company returns to England for
the final shots of the picture Ursula will
accompany them, and her husband will
probably be able to make the. trip also.
Interesting visitors who arrived during
the week were the Gerard d’Erlangers
and their elder daughter Penelope. Mr.
d’Erlanger is chairman of British Over-
seas Airways Corporation, and Mrs.
d’Erlanger has travelled widely by air
in South and North America, Europe
and Africa. Besides their house in Lon-
don, they have a country-home in Kent,
Singleton Manor, which is surrounded by
a moat and dates back to Henry Vi.
Penelope, aged 18, and one of the season’s
most attractive debutantes, was one of
the Duke of Kent’s partners. At home
are Mary (Minnie), aged 17, and Robin,
aged 13 ; also, says Mrs. d’Erlanger (a
great lover of animals), the two family
dogs, one of them, “Harry,” an Aus-
tral ian-terrier.
☆☆ ☆ -
Sydney Grammar School, second-
oldest G.P.S. in N. S. Wales (The
Kings is the oldest), celebrates its centen-
ary this year and will have a centenary-
ceremony in Sydney Town Hall on March
6, at which the Governor-General, Sir
William Slim, will be present. The head-
master, Mr. C. O. Healey, is trying to
find the school’s oldest pupil, and is also
compiling a register, of former students.
“Old boys” are invited to write to the
school at Box 794, G.P.0., Sydney.
MELBOURNE
“The Rainmaker,” Richard Nash’s
contemporary play at the Comedy, had
a most successful premiere, with Clement
McCallin the only non-Australian in the
cast. Members of the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust in the audience included
Sir Robert Knox (who was with Lady
Knox), Miss Myra Roper, Mrs. Massey
Burnside (who was with her husband),
and Mr. Aubrey Gibson (whose wife
accompanied him). One of the prettiest
frocks in, the audience was worn by Mrs.
Eric Rogers; it was white patterned in
large pink roses, which were outlined in
silver sequins. Others noted in the
audience were Mrs. Rupert Downes, her
son-in-law and daughter (Mr. and Mrs.
James' Campbell), the Garnet Carrolls,
Irene Mitchell, Pauline Aulton, Dr. and
Mrs. Shatin and their daughter Christine.
When “Oklahoma” played for its third
season in this city a whimsical little
platinum-blonde caused quite a stir by
her performance in the role of Ado
Annie. She was Joyce (“Tikky”) Taylor;
and now she has become a brunette for
the role of Gladys in “The Pyjama
Game.” Tikky, who went to London via
successful Variety in the Far East, has
been in many J.C.W. musical-comedies,
the last being “South Pacific”.
The tiny, picturesque Church of
England at San Remo was the setting for
the marriage of Daisy, third daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. A. P. Cuttriss, of San
Remo, and Leslie, youngest son of Mrs.
A. Schafer, of East Brisbane, and the late
Mr. Schafer. The bride’s bouffant waltz-
length frock of white flock-nylon, high-
necked and long sleeved, was mounted pn
white fsatin. Her elbow-length nylon-
tulle veil fell from a tiny white crinoline-
straw curvette, and she carried an ivory
Prayer-book from which trailed a spray
of gardenias. Her sister Jane was brides-
maid and wore a primrose nylon-
chiffon frock, full-skirted and' ballerina-
length, with attractive matching feather-
curvette. Her small posy was of
orchids. The bridegroom’s brother
Ronald was best man. The reception
was in the Newhaven Hall, Phillip
Island. The young couple will make their
home in Brisbane after a honeymoon-
tour of Tasmania.
☆ ☆ ☆
Grass-skirts, gay sarongs and lap-laps
were worn by guests at the Polynesian
Night organised by the* Robin Hood
Committee (which works for spastic
children), and held at the Caulfield home
of committee - member Margaret
McGowan. In the centre of the spacious
lawn was a dance-floor. Supper had the
exotic touch: chickens cooked in palm-
leaves, green peppers filled with spiced
meat, sucking-pig. Committee-president
Mrs. James Alston wore a red floral
sarong with masses of beads and
bracelets, and in her hair a red
Other gaily-clad committee-members
were Francine D’Abry, Anne Swallow,
Margot Perry and Jean Sutherland Smith.
Guests included Mr. James MacDonald,
M.L.A., and his wife, Mrs. R. H. Camp-
bell, and Mr. and Mrs. M. Marshall..
*, ☆ *
Two organisations I —the Queen Victoria
Hospital and the War Widows’ Guild —
will benefit from the two fashion-parades
which Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh is organising,
to be held in her lovely home in Toorak.
Fashions will come from the salon of Le
Louvre, and will be worn by well-known
mannequins. The first parade will be on
February 25, when afternoon-tea will be
served. The second will be a six-o’clock
champagne-and-chicken-sandwich affair.
Mrs. lan Miller and Mrs. John Forster
are ticket-secretaries, both on the same
telephone-number (UY 2266).
& ☆ *
When Susan, elder daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. C. J. Officer Brown, was married at
the Toorak Presbyterian Church to Dr.
William Melville McDonald, she wore a
white Chantilly-lace frock, the long-
sleeved bodice cut high in front and to a
low V at the back. Two gardenias held
her tulle veil, and she carried white
flowers. . Caroline Officer Brown,
Patricia Mackinnon and Susan Cohen
’maided in Princess-line white pintucked
organdie frocks, which had white velvet
ties set at the back of the waist. ,On
their hair were bands of white velvet,
finished at the back with a red rose, and
they carried posies of red flowers. The
bridegroom, who is the younger son
of Mr. and Mrs. W. McDonald, of
Greenvale, Parwan, had Dr. lan Mclnnes
as best man. Groomsmen were Gordon
Sleeman and Bruce McDonald. Recep-
tion was held in a marquee decorated
with red and white flowers at the home of
the bride’s parents in Toorak.
☆ ☆ ☆
This year’s Moomba Festival promises
to be bigger and brighter than ever, and
for the third year in succession there will
be an Australian Book Fair. The 1957
edition of the Fair will take the form of
a country show, and one of the draw-
cards will be a “Parade sC Australian
Authors,” caricatured as gold-, blue- and
red-ribboned prizewinners. It is hoped
that copies of all Australian books now
in print will be exhibited. The Australian
Book Fair Council has decided to hold
this contribution to the Moomba festi-
vities in the Lower Town Hall from
Saturday, March 2, when the Prime
Minister will open it at 8 p.mu, to Friday,
March ,8. Kevin Borland will do the
decor and general layout of the exhibits,
and there will be lunch-time talks. For
women visitors to the Fair there will be
talks on food and wines, and catering at
the Fair will include Australian and
Continental dishes.
CANBERRA
A gay week of social functions in
Canberra began with the opening by
Prime Minister Menzies of the sixth
annual conference of the Pacific Area
Travel Association in an international
atmosphere emphasised by colorful
posters from all countries decorating the
Albert Hall.
The Prime Minister and Dame Pattie
Menzies welcomed the guests at a late-
afternoon reception to the 150 delegates
in the banquet-hall at Parliament House.
An attractive visitor from the Philippines
was Miss Isabel Caro, her brightly-
colored striped frock featuring high
butterfly sleeves, the organza-like
material produced in the Philippines from,
of all things, banana-skins. A lovely even-
ing-coat in this material, in salmon-pink
appliqued with gold motifs, was worn
by Mrs. O. Shaul, of Melbourne; she
brought it back from her recent trip to
Manila. Mrs. P. S. McGovern wore an
attractive platter-hat swathed in tur-
quoise chiffon, worn with a black slim-
skirted frqck ; Mrs. Douglas Hyles was
elegant in an ink-blue frock featuring a
sheath skirt.
To entertain the P.A..T.A. visitors, the
Charge d’Affaires for U.S.A., Mr. Avery
Peterson, and Mrs. Peterson gave a buffet
dinner-party at the American Embassy.
A large arrangement of antirrhinums
decorated the entrance hall; rich red
blooms, a gift from Hawaii, flown here
in water-filled tubes to keep their fresh
color. vSir Leonard and Lady Isitt, of
New Zealand, were among the guests.
Charming American from Formosa Mrs.
M. Plake wore an elegant frock in black
silk ; Mrs. Berts, whose husband, Lieut.-
Col. Bert's, of Sydney, is g.-m. of Royal
Dutch Airlines, wore a smart little black
beaded hat with her black frock.
A day’s racing was provided by the
Canberra Racing and Trotting Club at
Acton, where luncheon was served in a
large marquee at the course. Sir Pludson
Fysh presented the trophy for the
P.A.T.A. Handicap ; Lady Fysh wore a
pale-grey and white silk frock with a
white straw hat.. An outstanding
ensemble was that worn by Mrs. Barry
Philp, of Fiji; the coat, cut on Oriental
lines, was in bright tangerine and worn
over a matching linen frock. Highlight
of the day was the champagne dinner
given at the Hotel Canberra by the
managers of the Orient line.
It was the biggest international travel
congress ever to assemble in Australia.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
3ACKSOIH?
OSUMJVAv
Waoe^ mark
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXVI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL’f, BRISBANE
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. .. .. 2/p
Xearly 22/6
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO CLAUDE BEDE BLAKE late of 102
Derwent Street Glebe Point.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARJORIE DOREEN
BLAKE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 244 of 1957 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend this suit you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court. King Street Sydney by
24th April 1957 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from
MADDOCKS COHEN & MAGUIRE,
Solicitors, 38 Martin Place, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO BERT WILLIAM KELLY late of 70
Church Street St. Peters in the State of
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
THERESA FRANCES KELLY has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 4653 of 1956
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 12th of April 1957 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. PIKE & PIKE,
Solicitors, ill Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar. ,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROSE ISABEL WARD (formerly
Courboule) of address unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that ALFRED GEORGE WARD
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4636
of 1956 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Twelfth day of April 1957
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from GIOYANELLI & BURGES,
Solicitors, of 21 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
—J. DOLTGHAN, Registrar.
\
Fuit/i in the
Future
It is a healthy sign of the progress of the age
that the world is hungry for steel.
More than thirty countries are planning to step
up their production, and the years between now and
1960 are expected to be the greatest period ever
recorded in steel expansion.
The world’s smelters are turning out about
297,000,000 net tons of steel a year. Within four
years, it is estimated, capacity will have been raised
to 384,000,000 tons —and its achieving will have
meant the expenditure of nearly £A9OOO-million.
The urge to satisfy the appetite for steel is
evident in Britain and other big industrial countries
of Europe, in the United States and Canada, and in
China. It is also marked in such countries as India,
where a determined effort to raise steel production
is being made in the national five-year plan ; in
Brazil, and other South American republics ; in
Mexico, South Africa, and here in Australia.
Wherever deposits of iron ore are available, it
seems, the stacks of new steelworks are rising.
it is well for us to note these developments, and
in doing so, to consider the strength that is brought
to our own country through its iron and steel
industry.
A report on Australian overseas trade for the
five months to November 30, 1956, gives iron and
steel a ranking as our seventh largest export, in
terms of value,. The increase in these exports —
£8,600,000 worth, compared with £2,700.000 worth
in the corresponding five months of 1955 —has
helped in the sharp swing to our now favourable
balance of trade.
This is the industry that was started early in
this Century, and began its remarkable growth, in
the main, during the First World War, when the
Broken Hill Proprietary turned from the winning
and treating of silver to the production of steel for
defence.
The men who established this enterprise
believed in the Future of Australia, and today their
Faith is being justified.
ee4
7
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“The Pyjama Game”
One is liable to be shown to
one’s seat at Her Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne, by an usherette garbed
in pyjamas these days, and this
startling departure from tradition
is likely to raise high hopes of
an unconventional evening,
enhanced by the fact that the
play opens with a strike for a
wage-increase oif 1\ cents
among the workers in a pyjama-
factory.
These hopes are only partially
fulfilled. The piece soon, settles
comfortably into its stride and
takes the well-worn track trodden
by every musicomedy of the
past, from “Rio Rita” to
"Sunny,” and all the usual
stereotypes, are presented in all
their romantic beauty.
William Newman is the hand-
some- hero and is also foreman
of the factory. Toni Lamond is
the pert pretty chairman of the
strikers’ grievances - committee
charged with the mission of
bringing their grievances before
the boss (Jack Little), who
harangues the strikers on their
duty to the nation.
In the natural course of musi-
comedy events Toni forgets the
strikers’ grievances in the arms of
Mr. Newman, and they both
have a conflict between desire
and duty and'sing about it in
more-or-less adequate voices.
No musical-comedy is complete
without a love-affair between two
apparent morons, and this is
provided in full measure by
Keith Petersen and Dorothy
Francis.
In short, the show is every-
thing that a musical-comedy
should be. The story isn’t any
sillier than “The Magic Flute,”
though there is some slight
difference between the lyrics and
music of Mozart and those of
Jerry Ross and Richard Adler.
The chorus sings about various
aspects of the pyjama-industry
with a gusto that is only excelled
by the orchestral players under
Gabriel Joffe. The dancing is
terrific, especially the amaziftg
gyrations of the young West
Australian Kevan Johnston, and
Tikky Taylor is the quaintest
mime who has been seen in
Exhibition-street for a long time.
The production by Fred
Hebert is an exact replica of the
original New York production,
though acted in the American
language entirely by blever
Australians.
“The Rainmaker”
Leo McKern is a true actor—
he reflects a part like a mirror,
and doesn’t impose his own
personality on it. He is an
entirely different person as lago
from what he is as H. C. Curry,
the American Middle West
farmer of Richard Nash’s “The
Rainmaker,” J.C.W.’s current
offering at Melbourne Comedy.
Except for a few short walks,
Curry spends practically the
whole of an intensely dramatic
evening at the kitchen-table in
his farmhouse on a sizzling day
in drought-time. From that
insignificant eminence he con-
trols the psyches of his family,
composed of a Puritanical elder
son, a prodigal younger brother
and a neurotic daughter whom
they ail want to see married but
whose acute inferiority-complex
keeps her a spinster.
Curry’s tolerance and indulg-
ence could easily be made to
appear the sentimentality of the
stereotyped American father,
but Mr. McKern makes you
believe in him. Nods, smiles,
humorous asides and occasional
flashes of anger are all that he
uses, and they never fail to have
their effect, even when a rain-
maker comes along and not only
offers to bring rain within 24
hours for a fee of 100 dollars
but also succeeds in lifting the
repression on his daughter to the
extent that she spends a night
with him in the stable.
When the elder son wants to
shoot Lizzie’s alleged seducer the
father quietly interposes; he
interposes again when the sheriff
arrives with a warrant for the
arrest of the rainmaker for
fraud in other counties. The
play builds up to a fantastic
crisis when the maker of rain
comes in, offers his wrists to the
sheriff’s irons, and then seizes
his guns and leaps for the woods
just at the moment his prophecy
is fulfilled in a clap of thunder
and rain coming down in
torrents.
There are nuances in the play.
The rainmaker, excellently done
by Frank Waters, is one-part
fraud and three-parts dreamer,
and it is made plain that it is his
crack-brained dreaming of far
horizons which has drawn Lizzie
to him. Patricia Hill plays this
part very nicely. Robert Levis
and Kevin Miles, as the
brothers, and Desmond Rolfe
and Clement McCallin, as the
sheriffs, may have hammed their
parts a trifle. It is Mr. McKern
who keeps the play on a serious
level.
*l* *
“The Mikado”
To the credit of all concerned
in the opening night of “The
Mikado” at Sydney Empire—
and a torrid summer night it was
—they came to light with the
most sparkling performance of
the season.
Every feature of it was good:
settings were artistic, dressing
lavish yet tasteful, and the
choruses singing with strong
attack, excellent tone and tight
discipline.
There were also capital indi-
vidual performances, with all-
round improvement in diction.
Richard Watson’s bulky Pooh-
Bah carried a full quota of that
multiple official’s haughty in-
solence, except when he was
grovelling before the Mikado,
in which rdle Richard Walker
produced a good mixture of
fatherly benevolence and Im-
perial autocracy, singing “A
More Humane Mikado” with
weight and clarity.
Grahame Clifford squeezed
more spontaneous fun out of
Ko-Ko than from any other of
his roles, venturing successfully
into the topical ad lib in his
“Got Him On My List.” After
all, the lady novelist is no longer
a “singular anomaly” and
Clifford’s substitution of a “rock-
’n’-roller’’ was a good touch.
Terence O’Donoghue’s Nanki-
Poo was his most acceptable role
of the season. Animated and
singing well, he gave plenty of
spirit to “A Wandering Minstrel
1.” Eric Thornton, as Pish-
Tush, was his usual dependable
self.
Helen Roberts (Yum-Yum),
Jane Martin (Pitti-Sing) and
Roslyn Dunbar (Peep-Bo) made
a charming trio and sang their
“Three Little Maids” very nicely.
Helen Roberts gave “The Sun
and I” good expression, using
her half-voice with excellent
judgment on the high notes.
Muriel Brunskill was a
ferocious Katisha and sang
powerfully in the climactic
scene of Act I.
The ensemble work was
particularly impressive, one of
the best being the madrigal,
“Brightly Dawns Our Wedding
Day.” The tempo of the duet
between Ko-Ko and Katisha,
“There Is Beauty in the Bellow
of the Blast,” which contains
some of Gilbert’s best wit and
rhyme, should be lowered—it
was sung too fast for the words
to be savored. *
*’ ❖ *
Sydney Stage
As this page was going to
pre®s, “The Summer of the
17th Doll” had returned
to Sydney’s Elizabethan Theatre
for a short season before going
to London, and Katherine
Dunham and her dancers were
back at Sydney Tiv. for another
season of their exqtic dancing.
Jessie Matthews and company
are still doing nicely 'at Sydney
Royal, while the Gilsullivan
season is running into its last
weeks at the Empire before
iyaking way for Franz Lehar’s
“Land of Smiles.”
“The Prisoner,” at the Inde-
pendent, North Sydney, has a
week to run before it is replaced
by James Bridie’s “Tobias and
the Angel,” while William Orr’s
revue, “Around the Loop,” has
been running so long at the
Phillip-street Theatre that every-
one must have seen it thrice over.
“Waiting Lor Godot,” which
has had a very mixed reception
overseas, will get an Australian
airing at Leila Blake’s Intimate
Theatre this month.
Artbursts
The Myrniong Group—pro-
fessional men and women who
spend their spare time painting
—has broken into the Athenaeum
Gallery, Melbourne. None, of the
painters looks like becoming a
Gauguin, but the general
standard is at least on the same
level as the average Melbourne
exhibition and in some cases a bit
above it. P. Jones’s “Airey’s
Inlet” and his “Beach Scene,”
which hasn’t- a beach in it, are
fresh sketches, and A. H. Mann
shows a sense of values in
“Polly,” a portrait of a girl in
a green dress carrying a basketful
of bottles. Barrister R. M.
Eggleston paints’ Mornington
and gets an effect, and F. Dicken-
son paints barrister K. Ander-
son and gets a likeness. None
of the group seems interested in
the modern movement.
Talkies
“Johnny Concho” (Sydney
Plaza): Frank Sinatra, who pro-
duced this Western and takes the
leading role, doesn’t make a
very convincing job of facing-up,
defiant and unarmed, ,to a
champion gunslinger. He is even
less convincing in overcoming, in
the instant, a lifetime’s addiction
to cowardice. The best features
of a Western —action, suspense,
characterisation and scenery—
are all conspicuously absent.
“Teenage Rebel” (Sydney
Century): The problems of an
unhappy 15-year-old daughter of
divorcees who goes to live with
the remarried mother she hasn’t
seen since she was seven are
here treated with understanding
and a touch of humor. Although
the domestic scenes are con-
vincing they are a little sugary,
and the daughter’s change of
character from a spoiled brat to
sweet young thing is rather too
easily contrived. Betty Lou
Keim, as the girl, handles a
difficult role with aplomb, and
Ginger Rogers, as the mother,
gives a creditable performance.


Golden Bools
By GAVIN CASEY
IT was away back in the days
when Tattersall’s was the
only important Australian
lottery and its patrons were
scattered over the whole of our
three million square miles.
“Tickets in Tatt.’s” every Friday
was a ceremony of almost
religious importance, and Lousy
Joe Folsom of the Grand Palace
Hotel at Spinifex Soak was not
lax in paying his tribute to the
gods in Hobart.
Lousy Joe wasn’t a Friday-
night investor. He bought as
many tickets as he had the money
to buy whenever the pewter
pint-pot into which he flung odd
threepences was full. It never
took long to fill-up, and it
bought a lot of tickets. All the
threepences that came over the
bar went into the pot, and if
Joe needed* any to mak6 correct
change he never took them out
without replacing them with a
shilling, two-bob, or half-a-
crown.
On this morning, unfortu-
nately, he couldn’t see. Only
some of the time, anyway.
Whenever the being who was
driving rock-drills into his skull
connected with the hammer Joe
shut his eyes. Each time he
opened them he saw nothing but
a swirl of maddening submarine
colors.
Blundering around the bar,
getting ready for the day’s
business, he groaned and cursed
Frenchy de Monte for dying.
Men like Frenchy were nuisance
enough when they were alive.
Dead, they demanded from the
grave wakes like the one that
had been going on at the Grand
Palace for the last three days.
At the moment Lousy Joe
longed to join Frenchy in his
underground peace. He pushed
pots, pewters, glasses and bottles
into some sort of order on the
bar shelves. Usually he washed
them first, but today the effort
would have killed him. Anyway,
he had no hope of focusing his
eyes so that he could see which
vessels had crusts of dried beer
around their rims and which
hadn’t. (At least, in those happy
days, none of them would be
stained with lipstick.) Joe hoped
nobody would come in for a
while.
But Joe’s luck was out.
TOIGHT at the white-ant-eaten
doorstep of the Grand
Palace, Bullabulling McCaffery
and Red Ted Schwartz were in
debate. The subject of the
argument was which of them
should enter and drink.
“Sixpence!” said Bullabulling.
“Right! We now toss it, and
the winner has a pot. The loser
goes over to Swallager’s store and
tries to talk more tick out of
him.”
Red Ted tried to protest,
because somehow he never won
tosses with Bullabulling. But the
coin was already in the air. He
lost again.
“I’ll wait,” he said, gloomily.
“I ain’t the talker. If we want
more tucker from Swallager,
you’re the one to get it.”
This touched Bullabulling, and
made him remember the poverty
and hardships they had shared
as proprietors of the Golden
Gully lease. Red Ted wasn’t
exactly a Claude de Bernales,
but he was a useful man on the
windlass or the shovel, a loyal
mate, and one who knew his own
shortcomings.
“Right!” said bullabulling.
“Get a tin or something, and
I’U bring out a mouthful of beer
for you.”
He swaggered bravely into the
pub, fingering the sixpence in
his pocket—and the extra three-
pence Ted didn’t know was
there. Lousy Joe saw what
seemed to be a human figure
approach the bar, and then his
unhappy red eyes went out of
focus again.
“Pint pewter,” said Bulla-
bulling, licking his dry lips.
Joe fumbled among the
pewters,' and put one under the
pump. It weighed like lead, but
that didn’t surprise him, because
that morning his shaving-brush
had seemed just about as heavy
as a prospector’s pick and he
had had to put his face down
into his early-morning cup of
tea because lifting it would have
broken his arm. He shoved the
pint-pot over with a . hollow
groan, and took a
mighty pull at it.
Something rattled against
Bulla’s teeth, and his eyes stuck
out. He put the pot down for a
fraction of a second, and then
grabbed it. Manfully he gulped
away, his cheeks distending, the
many veins in his face going
purple with the strain of getting
the beer down without coins.
Three threepences slipped
past his tonsils, and he almost
coughed the lot out. A two-
shilling piece lodged in his gullet
and after several seconds with-
out breathing he made a slow,
hissing noise like a whale blow-
ing, and emitted a cloud of
vaporised beer dyed with
verdigris from between his
clenched teeth. The two-bob
coming free under this pressure
almost knocked one of his teeth
out from behind.
But at last, when his cheeks
were ballooned and stretched
near to bursting-point, he had
what beer there had been, and
every coin from the pot within
him; somewhere. With
a muffled groan like one of
Lousy Joe’s very best, Bulla-
bulling staggered groggily out.
Red Ted, waiting with a more-
or-less clean Nestle’s milk-tin
for his mouthful of beer, was
alarmed. He appreciated it, but
his mate should not have put
such pressure on his mouth.
Bulla looked likely to drop with
apoplexy on the spot and Ted
hastily shoved the tin under his
face.
Instead of beer, the coins
gushed forth in a tinkling
stream. They filled the little tin
and overflowed. Then Bulla-
bulling shoved a large fore-
finger into his mouth and with
a sweeping motion extracted
another ten shillings or so from
between his gums and the
cheeks. A final half-crown
erupted from somewhere and hit
the astonished Red Ted in the
eye. Bulla coughed, grunted,
snorted and began to look better.
“What . . . how . . . why . . .
which’. . .?” stammered Red
Ted.
“Out of here, before Lousy
wakes up! ” ordered Bullabulling,
scooping up coins from the
gravel.
C'OON they were counting the
cash behind an old camel-
wagon that stood permanently
at the back of Swallager’s store.
“There you are!” said Bulla-
bulling. “Six and a half tickets
in Tatt.’s —or sixty-five beers,
Ted.”
“Aw, what’s the use?” Ted
said, dispiritedly.
“What’s the use! What’s the
use o’ sixty-five beers, you goat?
I can use my share all right.”
“But how’re you going to get
’em?” asked Red Ted, mourn-
fully. “Ain’t Lousy going to
miss his threepences? An’ what’s
he going to do when we come
in, paying for all our grog in
trey-bits?”
“We’ll git Swallager to change
them,” said Bullabulling.
“F’r such a smart cove,
you’re a fool,” Ted told him,
scornfully. “How much d’you
think we’d get back from
Swallager, when we owe the cow
nearly ten quid?”
Gloom descended, in spite of
the brilliant inland sunshine.
The pair had money they
couldn’t spend, thirsts they
couldn’t quench, sorrows much
less bearable the mere
brokeness to which they were
accustomed. They looked dis-
gustedly Ground the town of
dust, goats and dogs with dis-
temper. There was only Swal-
lager’s sprawling store, which
sold everything, and the paintless
single story of the Grand Palace
Hotel, a rubbish-dump, a black-
smith’s shop that was hardly
distinguishable from the dump,
seven houses, eight humpies and,
alongside the railway-siding, a
set'of huts where fettlers some-
times lived.
“Well, we gotter talk Swal-
lager into more tick, anyway.
Come on,” said Bullabulling.
And in front of the store, he
had his big idea.
SUDDENLY erect and con-
fident, he strode in with a
new light in his eye.
“Can’t do no more for you
fellers,” said Swallager, very
belligerently.
“Yes, you can,” said Bulla-
bulling. “For cash settlement of
the whole bill within two days.
We don’t want no tucker, just
tobacco and things. We’re
selling the claim.”
“What for, a road-metal
quarry?” asked the storekeeper,
nastily.
“Road-metal nothing! We’re
on to the yeller-stuff,” said
Bullabulling, with scorn.
This was news to Red Ted, and
he blinked. But Bullabulling was
the talker, and Ted kept his
mouth shut and listened.
“You might do worse than
buy it yourself.”
“And I might do better. If
you’re counting on me your
luck’s out,” said Swallager.
“Actually, I had Lousy Joe in
mind.”
“It’ll serve him right if you
can,” said the storekeeper, with
satisfaction. “You can have the
tobacco for nothing, if you sell
him that useless hole of yours.”
Bullabulling bought tobacco
lavishly, but when he added a
new pipe for Red Ted, Swallager
began to look dark and unhappy.
“And boots —boots f’r me,”
Bullabulling added,
“No boots,” said Swallager,
firmly.
“I gotter. have boots. These
hurt.”
“Take ’em off, then. You’ve
gone barefoot before.”
It seemed to be a deadlock,
and Bulla thought for a while.
Then, “Tell you what,” he said,
“if you’re going to be as tight
as Lousy Joe I’ll pay cash for
the boots —the seventeen-and-
six sort, not the crook fourteen-
bob ones.”
“What, is your shaft so deep
now you struck wa t e r?”
Swallager sneered.
Red Ted gasped, too. The
lower-priced bluchers were good,
strong, boots, and they’d always
done Bullabulling before. The
costly variety, worth no less
than 35 pots of beer, Were
specials for wet work, with,
among other refinements, solid
brass nails and sprigs that
wopldn’t rust and decay in mud
and pools.
But Bullabulling had his way,
as he generally did, even
in the face of Swallager’s fierce
suspicion that if he had
seventeen-and-six he probably
had more, and could well pay
some of the bill there and then.
When Bulla paid for the boots
in threepences still slightly
sticky with beer the store-
keeper’s curiosity nearly killed
him, but the customers went off
without satisfying it.
“Where to now?” asked Red
Ted. “We can’t go to the pub,
and where else is there?”
“The pub—that’s just where
we’re going,” said Bullabulling,
jauntily leading the way.
C*HEER rage had somewhat
cleared Lousy Joe’s vision
since he had discovered that his
pewtet pot of potential tickets
in Tatt.’s was empty. There were
some other customers in the bar
now, and he was glaring at them
all with hatred, contempt, and
suspicion.
When Bulla and Ted came in
he thought the tall, skinny one
looked a bit like the man
who had been in first for the
day. But the trouble was that
his mind’s-eye picture of the
earliest caller was a vague blur.
Anyway, this cove had on new
boots that squeaked like a dry
axle, and he’d have remembered
that noise for sure. It sent pains
scorching through his skull even
now, and an hour earlier it would
have lifted the top of his head
off.
But when Bullabulling called
for ttvo beers, and put down
four threepences to pay, the top
of Lousy Joe’s head rose at least
a few inches. Holding himself
in with an effort, he tested one of
the threepences with his tongue.
It had the unmistakable -flavor
of turps, phenyle, decayed
vegetable-matter and dirty pipes


ENTHUSIASTIC FARMERS EVERYWHERE ARE SAYING •
Ampol for Me!
m
m
Mr. Nat Orr, Chairman of the Nelungaloo district Rural
Co-Operative Society Limited, Parkes, says: “I have always
used Ampol Poimr Kerosine and oils on my property because
lam convinced you cannot buy better . The service, too, has
been first class during the many years Fve been a user.”
Use the best ... Australia's own
%
Hi'
a
Ol
o
Q
PC
■
POWER KEROSINE
Plus Ampol Distillate 9 Lighting Kerosine
• Petrol and a full range of farm lubricants.
AFMI.33
#
that distinguished the Grand
Palace beer. He roared like a
wounded buffalo and hurled him-
self halfway over the counter,
reaching for Bullabulling. The
new, heavy boots didn’t interfere
with Bulla’s footwork.
“You thief! You dirty thief!
You stole me thrippences.”
“I stole nothing. Come out-
side and say that,” said Bulla-
bulling coldly.
Lousy Joe was a man of
finance and business, not of war.
He withdrew a little back to his
own side of the bar, but his
anguish increased.
“You drank me threepences!”
he bawled. “You drank must
have been two quids worth. You
got more threepences oh you?”
“Of course I have. Any law
against carrying threepences?”
“Where’d you get ’em? You
drank ’em out of a pint pewter
I served you an hour ago.”
“I did not," said Bullabulling,
with a slow grin. “Me pore little
nephew in Tasmania died, and
1 was sole beneficiary, Joe. I
inherited his money-box, see?”
The bar laughed heartily. One
man, reduced almost to tears,
chortled, “Hear that, blokes?
Inherited a kid’s money-box!
Jevver hear the like? He’s too
good for you, Joe. Come here,
you two, an’ I’ll buy you a
drink.”
The morning began to get
merry, but not for Lousy Joe. At
least his eyes were not offended
by the sight of any more of his
own lost coinage, for it was a
long time before Bullabulling
and Red Ted had to pay for a
drink. Before his turn came,
Bullabulling tactfully got one of
the others to take his small
change over to the' store and
exchange it for a half-note and a
couple of florins. Then he
bought for the crowd, like a
London mining-expert travelling
the goldfields on company
money.
“Plenty more where that came
from,”' he boasted. “Will be,
bloody soon, any\way.”
T'HERE was immediate
interest, and a lot of effort to
find out just where Bullabulling
and Red Ted had been working
lately. Lousy Joe, whose greed
matched his meanness, leaned
closer and listened. He listened
so hard he almost forgot the
liquidation of his Tatt.’s-tickets
fund.
Lousy Joe’s eyes gleamed as
Bullabulling went on with his
hints of riches. Joe was doing
all right in the pub, but for his
taste it was too slow and involved
too much work. He'd come
from the hungry wheat-belt,
where the work was even
wickeder, but ever since he had
been on the goldfields he had
somehow dreamed of gold—got
straight from the ground, and
not through the involved pro-
cesses of commerce.
“Show us a bit of the stone,”
said somebody, to Bullabulling.
“Give us a look at a sample.”
“Got none here,” said Bulla.
“What we got’s only for show-
ing to somebody with more
money than you, mister. I sent
wires to the city, and a man
with money behind him’ll be
here day after tomorrow.”
The bar buzzed excitedly, and
Lousy Joe realised that among
the locals he had the most
money. He created a stunned
silence by buying a drink forlhe
first time since he had taken
over the Grand Palace. Then he
set them up again, but this time
for only Bullabulling and Red
Ted.
The day wasn’t costing* them
much. As it wore on, and
nobody left the bar, Joe signalled
Bullabulling into a corner. He
said, knowingly, “These blokes
aim to follow you out to the
claim.”
“I know,” said Bulla. “But
we ain’t going there.”
“Where, then?”
“Aw, we’ll camp in the rail-
way yard, I reckon.”
“Now, that’s no place for a
couple of chaps entitled to some
comfort,” said the publican,
expansively. “You stay here —
on the house, if you like —and
you and me’ll have a bit of a
yarn tonight.” •
From there on it was plain
sailing.
Long after Red Ted was asleep
and the bar had at last emptied,
the voices of Bullabulling and
Lousy Joe mumbled on into
the night. Joe sometimes
sounded anguished, Bullabulling
often scornful, but finally agree-
ment seemed to be reached, for
thereafter there were only snores
until piccaninny - dawn was
spreading over the scrub.
Then, before anybody else was
awake, the three men set out
for the Golden Gully, Bulla
striding ahead confidently, Joe
blinking and cursing and hardly
more optically alert than he had
been the previous morning, and
Red Ted bringing up the rear in
bleary confusion.
Half-a-mile from the claim
Bullabulling stumbled over a
stone, stopped, looked, and then
picked up the rock and examined
it.
“There!” he said triumph-
antly, holding it out to Joe.
“That’s a sample of the. stuff
we got at the Gully.”
Sure enough, a thin vein of
yellow ran along one side of the
stone. Joe looked impressed, and
Red Ted gasped, never having
seen anything yellow in the
district except a few wildflowers
and some clouds at sunset.
“The stuff’s off a reef,” Bulla-
bulling explained. “Don’t occur
like that unless it is. Anyway,
it’s so thick at the Gully that
the stone we’ve got’d treat for
half-an-ounce or so.”
They went on, and at the little
mine Red Ted had to operate the
windlass. He let the others down
the 20ft. shaft, and didn’t see
what happened in the short
drive down below, where Bulla
first shone his lamp on a heap
of loose stone.
“That’s the stuff,” he said.
“Couple of tons here, and just
in case you might think I’ve
.rigged something, I’m going to
mix it all up before I show you
any.”
He grabbed a shovel and got
to work, tossing the stone around
with wonderful energy, stamping
and kicking at it, mixing it like
the ingredients of a Christmas
pudding. At last he stopped,
picked up the lamp, selected half
a dozen pieces and had a look at
them.
“There you are! See it? Now
pick a few rocks for yourself,”
he said.
When Lousy Joe did so, his
fingers trembling, only five out
of his seven had the delightful
yellow streaks, but one had no
less than three veins.
“Fifty for a fortnight’s
option,” he croaked, seeing
visions of city life in a pub
where other people did the work.
“A hundred,” said Bulla,
firmly. “When the Midas Min-
ing man gits here tomorrow he’ll
give me £5OO for a month. Only
reason I’m giving you a go is
that I’d like to see the show in
the' hands of a local man with
the money to develop it.”
npHEY got the money as soon
as they got back to the pub
and, being honest men, settled
their bill with Swallager. Then
they drank an hour or two away
with Lousy Joe.
When the train at the siding
gave the preliminary hoot that
indicated it would be off for the
city some time soon Bullabulling
said he had a letter to write, and
needed Red Ted to check the
Spelling for him. They retired
to their room, and from there
out through the back door with
the speed and silence of race-
horse-lizards, Ted still much con-
fused but Bulla knowing exactly
where they were going and why.
Ten miles down the line Ted
sat up out of a dreamlike state
and said, “Listen, you! I know
it’s no use waiting for him to
take up the option, ’cause there
ain’t no gold. But where’d the
damn yellow stuff come from,
anyway? An’ what was it?”
Bullabulling looked at his
mate quizzically. He put his feet,
in their new boots, up on the
opposite seat, and twisted his
ankles so that Red Ted could
look at the soles.
There was no shine on the
soles any more, after only a day
of wear. In fact, even the brass
sprigs were scraped bright and
shiny, as though Bulla had been
scraping his feet on the ground
a lot.
Ted began to understand.
“Yes, these are the golden
boots, and that’s why I had to
have ’em,” said Bullabulling
sternly. “I got the threepences,
and then the idea, and then the
boots —and you needn’t think
I’m not going to charge the
boots to exes, before I split the
swag.”


Low's
Autobiography
THE PLOT PRESS
(“Rothermere” says Low, “hated it.
Not so Beaverbrook”)
An arresting success on London “Star,” after his “Bulletin”
days, David Low here describes Lord Beaverbrook’s
singular methods of persuading him to become the
“Evening Standard’s” cartoonist . . . with a singular
contract . . . and first-class rows over a Navy cartoon
and his second cartoon-crack at things Irish—on the
banning of Marie Stopes’s birth-control books.
13
E' - "”"-—"1T about this time I was having
the same old fight about space
with the “Star.” It was pro-
posed that the size of*my
cartoons in the paper be cut
below what I knew to be the
essential minimum. I was
unable to convince my writer colleagues
that reducing the size of a picture was
not like, in the case of writing, setting up
an article in smaller type, but more like
removing from the article all adjectives
and adverbs.
I could not go on drawing without
satisfaction in the published results of my
labors. Claustrophobia set in. Desperate,
I thought of Beaverbrook.
Three years before he had offered to
double my salary if I left the “Star”, and
joined his “Evening Standard.” I had
refused, for I thought I already had the
essentials of well-being (except for this
vexation about- space), my tastes were
simple and I was wary of getting myself
used to soft living. I had no particular
yearning for any increase of influence
that might go with association with Lord
8., although I was interested in life and in
politics as an important part of it.
How could I hope to explain an
attitude of mind like that to such a
business “realist”?
Paradoxically, it would have to be done
in terms of money and purely material
self-interest. So long as money was the
measure of value I would have to demand
stiff terms to show I was valuable to
myself, and maintain thafi I couldn’t be
valuable to him also unless I had large
space, good reproduction and a com-
pletely free hand. ,
The proposition might seem a little
peculiar, but Beaverbrook was a peculiar
man.
TO the eye of a stranger, the First
World War had left the English with
their sociaj. codes, customs and conven-
tions preserved, if visibly destined for
change. The respect for institutions
remained, reinforced by traditional loyalty
to family, class, sect, party, leader and
monarchy. To the English this loyalty, so
far as public practice was concerned, was
sufficiently demonstrated by conformity
to custom.
Beaverbrook did not fit this frame at
all. He dislocated the pattern, ruptured
the continuity, pushed traditions and
institutions around. His loyalty was
placed where and when, in his arbitrary
judgment, at any given time, it was
deserved. He certainly did not conform
to anything. He was nobody but himself.
A MAN like that has ready-made
enemies. The disturbance of the
peace, the upsetting of the status quo,
always has an unnatural and wicked au-
to the weaklings who feel safe only when
clinging tooth-and-nail to their precon-
ceived ideas, unable to move. Beaver-'
brook would have had his opponents even
had his nonconformity been passive. But
it was in fact challenging. He was fine
of those uncomfortable things to have
about the house, a merger.
Two simple ideas underlaid the
success-story of his young self, Max
Aitken, in Canadian business: mergers
and the exploitation of new values arising
therefrom. i
His subsequent story in British politics
had run on the same lines. His main
political operations had been alP,mergers,
achieved or attempted, of people, parties
and/or policies: the coalition of Lloyd
George and Bonar Law/Carson ,in 1916 ;
the absorption of the Liberal parly into
the Tory party, which had been his
Parliamentary tactic ever since the Labor
party grew to Government size; the
mixture of protection and free-trade he
called “Empire Free Trade”; the
combination of paternalism and popular
reform he thought was democracy.
He was a born merger. His natural
gift’s of persuasion developed to a high
pdint of genius as he learned from
practical experience the science of
Adequate Preparation and the Art of
Charm. The reconciliation of irreconcil-
ables, the mixture of oil and water,
presented to him not insuperable
difficulties but interesting possibilities—
even probabilities.
BEAVERBROOK
(He was, says Low, a “natural” to draw. The “Beaver” was one of the series of David
Low caricatures Of notabilities that were published as supplements by the “Newt
Statesman,” and going by his success with every one of them they must all have been
“naturals” —for Low.)
The enjoyment of his big talent led
the businessman to become an artist
attempting things for their own sakes,
seeing how far he could go, exercising for
a lark. He went around merging for the
fun' of it, bringing opposites together in
incongruous circumstances. Innocent
guests to his board found themselves
seated next to their deadly enemies, with
their host, a glint in his eye, taking
scientific observations.
This amiable and, indeed, in softie
respects, highly praiseworthy foible
accounted for his reputation as a
whimsical mischief-maker. It accounted
even for his wish to have me on his
paper.
“If ever Max gets to Heaven, he won’t
last long,” said H. G. Wells to me one
night .as we left Stornoway House after
Beaverbrook had been holding forth on
John Knox. “He will be chucked out
for trying to pull off a merger between
Heaven and Hell . . . after having secured
d controlling interest in key subsidiary
companies in both places, of course.”
T 7 HAD heard all about his doings before
my time, the success-story, the mergers,
t)ie affinity with Bonar Law ; of how he
had unmade Asquith and made Lloyd
George; and of how, after making a
mistake and finding himself cast away in
the House of Lords, he had fallen almost
inadvertently into the newspaper business
and was on the way to making the mori-
bund old “Daily Express” into not only a
great business success but a kind of
alternative Government.
From then on it had become possible
to keep an eye on him for myself. There
had been other proprietors of popular
newspapers who openly used them for
exerting their personal power. North-
cliffe, for instance. But Beaverbrook was
unique in that he was also skilled in
dialectic, the 1-2-3 clickety-click of
exposition, and a political expert, with
the uninhibited approach of the over-
seas mind separated by two generations
from local orthodoxy.
Gad, sir, what could be done with a
“Conservative” who thought nothing of
trampling a herd of Canadian cattle
(politically speaking) over his own party-
leaders and then blithely resisted the
efforts of the Carlton Club either to make
him resign or to itself resign from him?
It would have taken a blacksmith to
fix a party-label on such a man even in
1920. The bitter rage of Right-wing
Tories was not at all assuaged by his
explanation that he did not oppose the
Government but only the men in it.
In the face of their obtuseness and
unreason, Beaverbrook gave himself the
key of the Street and had his Independ-
ence Day.
“The normal attitude of the press
towards politicians must be one of com-
plete independence,” he declared. “Fleet-
street dealt with Downing-street on
independent and equal terms.”
Thereafter his independence grew to be
so important that he felt he had to justify


himself whenever he found himself in
agreement with anybody.
i TpHE mortification of his critics was
that, like it or not, he was not
always wrong. Indeed, gad, sir, Lord
Beaverbrook was often right.
He opposed Churchill’s futile anti-
Bolshevik Crusade in ,1920; and the
Black and Tans in Ireland. After the
First World War he came out for
increased taxation on war-profiteers. He
opposed LI. G.’s pro-Greek policy, and
as though by arrangement with Lord 8.,
the Greeks turned round and fled back in
confusion to the coast with the Turks
behind them. He went to Berlin on a
financial quiz, and reported unfavorably
on the 4 mark. The mark promptly
collapsed.
It was all rather like the story told
about Father Divine, the American negro
evangelist, who, when the police-court
judge who decided against him dropped
dead the next day, turned up his eyes
and said: “Ah hated to do it.”
He was right about Britain’s thankless
Zionist role in Palestine; about the
Curzon - or - Baldwin - for - Prime -
Minister question; and about Baldwin’s
futile policy of prosperity-through-wage-
cuts. He was frequently right.
But the successes of his judgment
pointed his failure. For although when
taken separately they might seem to be
the outcome of oracular prophecy and
realistic vision, taken together they were
revealed as the day-to-day, year-to-year
haphazard expedients and shifts forward-
ing the consistent Beaverbrook ideals:
at home, a place safe for capitalism in
which the workers work and the'
capitalists capitalise ; and abroad, British
withdrawal from “foreign entangle-
ments” to within a closed Empire.
Empire Free Trade, the policy
calculated to realise the latter aim, and
the sine qua non of-Beaverbrookism, was
never successful. For a very simple
reason. Neither Britain, nor the
Dominions, nor the Empire, nor the
[British] Commonwealth wanted it.
Even the staff of the “Daily Express”
didn’t want it. Nobody wanted it —except
Lord Beaverbrook. Little 8.-peep’s over-
due ewe-lamb never came home wagging
its tail behind it.
Beaverbrook reduced political
dining to a fine art. An invitation
to dinner at Beaverbrook’s, as I pointed
out in one of my cartoons at the time,
was apt to be considered by the invitees
with the care of Romans considering
invitations from the Borgias.
The important stages of his political
manoeuvring were usually done to the
music of mastication at his . “little
suburban villa,” the Vineyard, or his
comfortable country house, Cherkley, at
Leatherhead.
Sometimes his “subjects” became
aware of this and tried to counter by
inviting him to their tables; but Lord
Beaverbrook was too well aware of the
advantages of playing on the home
ground. Winston tried to spike his guns
before introducing his Budget by inviting
him to lunch at Chartwell, but Lord B.
declined. LI. G. craftily tried to rope him
in to breakfast at Downing-street, but
unsuccessfully.
. The best evidence of the high motives
behind this hospitality was that the host
obviously enjoyed it hugely. As much
could not always be said of all the guests,
hardly ever of those outside looking in.
His masterpiece, the famous series of
meals in 1916 which culminated in Lloyd
George finding the Prime Ministership
on his plate, had elements of tragedy as
well as of comedy—but that was an
historic occasion. Normally the
emotional combination was rather
astonishment and exasperation. Bonar
Law, Birkenhead and Churchill couldn’t
have been too pleased when at a weekend
party they were working up to the point
of imparting to him Lloyd George’s letter
to the Sinn Feiners (ssh, strictly con-
fidential!) to have Beaverbrook come
back by imparting to them (also in the
strictest confidence) the Sinn Feiners’
reply, which he had written for them
himself at the suggestion of Tim Healy.
(Which was true enough. The Irishmen,
doughty fighters against the British as
enemies, needed advice in the formalities
of intercourse with the British as
diplomats, and through the agency of
Tim Healy had got it from Lord B.)
*Tp HERE were, the cosy parties of the
early ’twenties when enough soured
ex-Coalition Ministers passed through the
Beaverbrook dining-room to form a
Government in ekile: Churchill, dis-
gruntled because God had created
Baldwin ; Beaver himself, dis-
gruntled because of the poor lookout for
Imperial Preference ; and the others . . .
jovially passed the acid clockwise around ■
the table and exchanging side-splitting
plans for blowing up Prime Ministers.
There was the black day when the
company must have gnashed its teeth
through napery, crockery, cutlery and all.
Winston, the darling of the disgruntled
as the advocate of economy, lower taxes
and down with Baldwin’s American-debt
settlement, had, with the energetic help
of the Beaverbrook and Rothermere
presses, given the Tory-party machine a
bad shake at a by-election. Its leaders
capitulated, presented him with a safe
seat, and what he wanted, the position of
Chancellor of the Exchequer —at last!
Whereupon he swallowed hard and
ditched Lords B. and R. and the dinner-
circle by doing the very reverse of their
expectations.
With all these prima donnas flying
about, the famous “genius for political
friendship” involved keeping a date-pad
to be sure when one shook the hand of
A and turned the back on B, and vice
versa.
DP was in connection with two minor
instances of these culinary manoeuvres
that I had my first professional relations
vyith Beaverbrook.
A large delegation of editors from the
Dominions had come to London and
Beaverbrook took the opportunity to
stage a lavish dinner for them, and invited
Lloyd George to make the speech of thd
evening, in the belief and hope that, in
the Empire atmosphere, some com-
promising reference to Imperial Prefer-
ence might be conjured out of him.
Beaverbrook invited me by letter to
design the menu-card. Whether my
design, an innocuous piece of work repre-
senting an infinite variety of LI. G.’s, one
capering on a plate before each editor,
raised or lowered the harmony of the
occasion, the political purpose of the
occasion did not come off, for LI. G. was
too fly. He slid all around Imperial
Preference without mentioning it once.
Then Beaverbrook had the inspiration
of having me paint a mural panorama
of caricatures of his friends to go around
his dining-room. I couldn’t work up
enthusiasm for the idea. I thought it
would drive him nuts. He got someone
else to do it, but by the time it was
finished he had fallen out with so many
of the individuals depicted that it never
went up.
jj
THE picturesque side of this olla
podrida, as much as its public import-
ance, had impressed me as a political
cartoonist, and some months earlier I
had begun to introduce Beaverbrook into
my cartoons in the “Star.”
He was not a ready-made subject for
caricature. Large head, boyish face, full
cheeks, wide forehead, unruly hair, small
nose with peculiar curve, wide grin belied
by sharp, light eye, slight, small figure,
short neck, high shoulders, neat
extremities, hairy hands, undistinguished
dark-blue suit. The whole thing lay in
the wide grin belied by the sharp eye.
It was some time before I could make
anything at all out of this outfit, but in
the end I built up a version which was
not so much like him as' like the kind
of man he was, if you know what I mean,
and started him off.
The relationship between Art and
Nature is sometimes very curious. The
one imitates the other and, strangely
enough, vice versa. As my Beaverbrook
grew, with my increasing familiarity with
its original, a closer likeness to him, he
grew more like it. When at last I got
to know him well enough to persuade
him to “sit” for me in comparative still-
ness for a few moments (something of an
ordeal for everybody, with telephones
going incessantly, people rushing in and
out with documents, and the gracious
presence of Lady Beaverbrook peeping
over my shoulder), I found the
characteristics fallen into linear place and
the circle practically squared.
His first appearance in my cartoons
was entitled “Babe in the Wood,” atid
showed Stanley Baldwin as the babe lost
in Tariff Reform and highly appre-
hensive about the intentions of wicked
uncles Beaverbrook and Rothermere.
i TpROUBLES between these three had
been coming to the ,boil for a long
time. Beaverbrook had plenty of grounds
for annoyance. In the first place Baldwin
had got all the credit for upsetting the
Coalition Government, whereas he,
Beaverbrook, thought he had done it.
Again, Baldwin let the Prime Minister,
Bonar Law, Beaverbrook’s most bosom
friend, in for the disadvantageous
American-debt settlement, which Beaver-
brook found it difficult to scuttle with-
out scuttling also Bonar Law.
Then, on top of that, when Bonar Law
retired, and Baldwin, fis the new Prime
Minister, headed for the Protection Elec-
tion, tossing Imperial Preference (Beaver-
brook’s political pet) aside like a soiled
glove, all without word of explanation
or apology to Lord 8., this was the last
straw. Especially when Lord B. remem-
bered that he had practically given young
JIMMY THOMAS
(J. H. Thomas, M.P., of Britain’s first Labor Government: the “Right
Hon. Dress-suit, as Low labelled him —not that it worried Jimmy;
he loved it. Another from the superb “New Statesman ” series.)
Baldwin his start in life by recommending
km t 0 ® ol^ r aw as Parliamentary
Secretary m Coalition days.
As Law’s most faithful friend in life
and after, Beaverbrook had appointed
himself Law’s political executor to dis-
pose of assets like the Conservative
majority, which he regarded as Law’s
personal political property. In this light,
Baldwin’s action appeared to be desecra-
tion, larceny and wilful sabotage, and
Beaverbrook not only said so in the
“Daily Express,” but had Rotheripere say-
ing so in the “Daily Mail,” too. (Lord B.
was always ready to agree with his
business and political rivals when he
could persuade them that they agreed
with him.) All, read the public, was being
lost. Baldwin was forcing the Conserva-
tive party to commit suicide.
Baldwin did not take it in good part
and wounding words were bellowed
from the housetops in a notorious “inter-
view” in which he was reported to have
said he wouldn’t have Beaverbrook or
Rothermere in his house.
Since few people in Fleet-street knew
whether Baldwin’s house was desirable
or (attractive, no one could measure the
depth of longing frustrated in the two
newspaper barons, but “them was fightin’
words.” Nev/spapers outside of the
Beaverbrook-Rothermere family tacitly
agreed that if there were not a vendetta,
there ough ° e - iet( ~C . t.
of both parties to the dujmtf, all
expostulations were brus e .
they declaied a vendetta to e
and began accordingly to p y
articlesi on The Function l f
in Society, The Responsibilit s
Criticism, and so on.
Lord B. himself, goacjed beyond
endurance despite his proclaimed
imperviousness to criticism, weighed in
with a booklet, price one-shilling, giving
a version leaving Caesar’s wife cold for
sheer purity and chastity, which he
pushed to a mass sale with all the energy
of his machine.
ALL this was made for a cartoonist.
It was, in fact, comic-strip stuff.
I tried one or two cartoons developing
the two Press Lords along from the
wicked uncles in “Babe in the Wood” into
the Plot Press, two mischievous con-
spirators in mock-sinister cloaks and
hats. The figures, fat Rother and little
Beaver, were such “naturals” to draw
and the newspaper public gave them
such popularity that in no time I found
myself running a series dealing with their
dark doings.
Various incidents and 'accidents turned
up by grinning fate in succeeding months
tended to support and confirm the light-
some fancy. There were, nmong other
things, a misplaced document supplied to
Lord Birkenhepd by Beaverbrook’s
“Sunday Express” which bedevilled a
debate in the Lords upon the delicate
Greek situation; and a mysterious trip
( Continued on next page)


by Beaverbrook to Palestine which feft
the nation wondering what was going to
happen next. The Plot Press became one
of my major properties and a regular
feature of the “Star.”
Rothermere, who was very sensitive to
criticism of himself, hated it. Not so
Beaverbrook. He asked me to dinner.
I WAS slightly perturbed when this
invitation arrived. I received my direc-
tions to meet his Lordship’s car in an
alley off Fleet-street. It was a dark,
conspiratorial night. The car was a long
black shape. An obsequious shadow
edged me into its black depth. Wait . . .
wait.. .wait... a smaller, livelier shadow
jumps in quickly—away we go—my hand
is grasped.
Thereupon the invisible companion
fired a cross-examination of questions.
“You’re Low?” asks a gravel voice.
“Yes.” Couldn’t see him. “You’re a New
Zealander?” “Yes.” “How old are you?
Are you married? Do you drink?”
Well, I’m blowed! Who does this
bloke think he is?
I told him as much as I thought was
good for him.
We arrived, but I could not see where
because of the darkness. Within, the
suburban villa proved to be a com-
modious place with fourteen rooms. He
hurried through a door, -leaving me high-
and-dry in the passage.
“Come in, Low,” and I pushed open
the door, then halted by an unexpected
vision of his Lordship in his under-
clothing.
Ho, I said to myself, the new tech-
nique, eh? (I had heard other guests of
his Lordship report having had their
reserve broken-down by the test of having
unexpectedly to bear the sjght of their
host naked, changing into his dinner
things.)
Dressed, we repaired to a brightly lit
long room where a joyous company of
about twenty were in the middle of what
could only be described as a baronial
repast. Bright eyes and merry laughter.
Lovely ladies, with Valentine Castlerosse,
pink with geniality, champagne-glass in
hand, at the end of the table, the centre-
piece.
The scene was a ready-made cartoon.
So this is how the rich live, I reflected.
To think I am sitting, probably in the
very chair in which Prime Ministers got
their marching-orders, statesmen cut one
another’s throats, the downfall of Gov-
ernments was arranged.
Lord Beaverbrook proved aq excellent
host and I enjoyed my dinner tremen-
dously.
“What will you drink, Low?” roared
his Lordship from ten people away in
imperial tones suggesting unlimited
cellars.
“I would like a nice cup of tea,” I
answered with somewhat damp colonial
bravado.
A momentary hush fell on the com-
pany.
A FTER dinner a piece of the wall
miraculously fell away at one end of
the room, a screen descended at the
other, and we had a cinema.
In 1924 this was unheard-of luxury. I
settled down to enjoy Felix the Cat, but
his Lordship drew me aside. He fixed
me with a steady, calculating eye and I
put on my best Simple Simon look.
(Here it comes.) V
The proposition was that I should
leave the “Star” and draw cartoons for
the “Evening Standard”
at double my salary, what-
ever it was.
Flabbergasted, I made
refusing noises.
“What do you want?”
he asked.
In the. circumstances,
I could not start explain-
ing that what I vwanted
was happiness, not a
plenitude of purchasable
pleasures. Besides, it
might have seemed
irrelevant. So I passed
the question off.
He was persistent. To
close the subject I said I
wished to take the advice
of my friends H. G. Wells
and Arnold Bennett. He
cordially agreed, and I
decided not to trouble
either, because I knew
Lord B. would immedi-
ately telephone both and
fix their approval before-
hand. Which was exactly
what he did do.
TR) URING the next three
years I dodged deli-
cately without rupturing
the amicable relations thus
begun—no easy matter,
considering that he
shouted this offer of his
at me whenever we met,
regardless of whoever was
present. Beaverbrook was unused to
taking no for an answer.
It got about in Fleet-street, and I had
a lot of free advice from mutual friends
who felt it their duty to protect a help-
less artist from the Prince of Darkness.
It would have surprised Lord Beaver-
brook (or would it, after all?) to know
what some people thought of him.
Came the day when through a third
party I agreed to discuss a contract. The
negotiations were no more protracted
than those for an international treaty,
but not much less. The crucial
clause, which I drew up myself, was
unequivocal:
POLICY: It is agreed that you are to
have complete freedom in the selection
and treatment of subject-matter for your
cartoons and in the expression therein
of the policies in which you believe.
It was an unprecedented arrangement.
No one else on the paper had such a
contract. Indeed I heard later that no one
else on the paper had a contract at all.
MEGOTIATIONS ended when I called
on Lord Beaverbrook one morning
at noon, finding him sitting up in
bed, a plaintive figure like Camille,
reading the Bible.
He had promised me four half-pages a
week, but I .wanted precise guarantees
about presentation. „
“Dammit, Low,” said Lord B. “Do you
want to edit the paper, too?”
The signing was an odd ceremonial,
By invitation, I presented myself with two
of his executives at his Lordship’s com-
paratively magnificent office on the top-
floor of the old “Daily Express” office,
the one with the three-cornered view of
St. Paul’s, the bookshelves full of classics
and the four electric-fires.
\\
£
mM , tis a iuwbue fwa I
THE WO\Tf vsiip rtCT.
Tin BRATS and ava-
And aul. J
bad ttS«> •» -me-
Dtßrt SKPAUpEErt
'Ti5 V{E CINSOR,
KPAp! 1
ATTEMPTED REVOLUTION IN DUBLIN
(In thin instalment Low describes how this London “Evening Standard” cartoon of hit
got him into very hot water.)
At first I couldn’t see him at all, though
I heard his words of welcome, punctu-
ated by sighs. There he was, lying on
the flat of his back on the carpet behind
the grand piano, practising breathing-
exercises.
“Glad to . . . euffff . . . have you with
us, Low . . . euffffff . . .”
He remained prone so long that I
began to wonder whether he would get
up, or whether I was expected to lie
down too. Finally he arose and we com-
pleted the business and wetted our
whistles.
He reached for a telephone and rang-
up Arnold Bennett. “I win,” he said.
I felt vaguely disappointed in myself.
H SPENT sleepless nights, before making
my debut on the “Evening Standard.”
What Ijad I let myself in for?
The technical conditions promised to
be grand, but I felt I was sticking my
innermost self into the lion’s mopth.
The “Evening Standard” advertised my
coming lavishly. No one took seriously
the announcements that I was to express
independent views. That was a novel
idea, except for an occasional series of
SYNCOPATED DISCIPLINE RECITAL ON THE ROYAL OAK
(Another of Low’s “Evening Standard” cartoons that heated temperatures up quite a lot.)
signed articles by some big name. Free
and regular expression by the staff-
cartoonist was unheard of and incredible,
Newspaper comments made it only too
depressingly evident that in the general
view I had sold out to the highest bidder,
Friends began to give me peculiar looks,
I became suddenly popular with strangers
who pumped my hand with sickening
congratulations and assurances that,
after all, prostitution was quite respect-
able if the pay were high enough.
14
THE “Evening Standard” had a
smallei- circulation than the “Star,”
but it was a West End sale among
the upper middle-classes. The Tory
clubman’s evening-paper.
Remarkable' how newspaper-reading
publics live in watertight compartments,
unaware of what goes on next door. To
the mass of' “Star” readers it was as
though I had vanished without trace. To
that of “Evening Standard” readers, as
though I had been discovered, without
past, by Lord Beaverbrook.
IDO not know what precisely I had
expected from the readers of the
“Evening Standard.” A more educated
audience, perhaps, more alert to sym-
bolism and analogy. A party Conserva-
tive outlook, of course. A slightly higher
level of appreciation of the nature of
politics as a conflict of ideas rather than
of parties and personalities, maybe?
1 was not long in doubt. Almost im-
mediately a copious correspondence
began to pour into the office. At first the
ratio of con to pro was about 75 to 25,
but on a second wind enough pros
turned-up for the figures to break fairly
even, which was not bad, because all
newspaper people know that readers who
like you don’t write, whereas those who
don’t do.
“What shall we do with all this
correspondence?” says the editor,
worried.
“Print it!” says the Master-mind. (By
Jove, I thought, that is really clever! My
estimate of Beaverbrook went steeply
up.)
After that the “Evening Standard'
published the cream of the letters inter-
mittently and at such length as the
circumstances of the day demanded. After
all, the management had an investment
to protect and publicise.
I played up and answered back in both
cartoons and prose. Hard words, not to
.mention splenetic insults, were exchanged.
The correspondence grew and grew,
rows over the cartoons became one of
the features of the “Evening Standard,”
the outside world became aware of a
piquant situation.
Something new. London sat up and
began to take notice.
SO FAR as a general understanding
went, it was a complicating factor
that in the nature of my technique
I used individuals to symbolise policies
and attitudes. The more simple-minded
of my new readers were very apt to see


merely the surface indignity and to com-
plain violently of “vulgar personality.”
There was much acrimony, for
instance, when I used the frequency \Vith
Which J. H. Thomas appeared hob-
nobbing with Lords arrayed in full
evening-dress to continue £rom the
“Star” his “run” as “The Right Hon.
Dreks-suit, M.P., wearing his Jimmy
Thomas” —a symbol of the new respecta-
bility of the Labor party.
To these critics under the impression
that Caricature and Comic Art were one
and the same thing, the symbolic boiling-
down of a phase of political movement
into this caricature seemed to be only
a coarse libel oq Thomas’s sartorial
beauty.
There was talk of “hitting below the
belt.” My own loyal defenders sprang
to the rescue, and controversy raged for
a space about where exactly Jimmy wore
his belt—inside his hat or around his
ankles.
Usually the originals were not jts
sensitive about these attentions as were
their admirers and followers. Some, on
the contrary, were even pleased. Thomas
was a friendly soul and 1 saw him often.
“I will hand you down to posterity,
Jimmy,” I said to him.
“You don’t ’and me down to pos-
terity, David; you ’ound me down,”
says he.
While my mail was filled with angry
letters from readers accusing me of gross
assault on Thomas’s dignity, there were
very few cartoons about him that were
not followed by an appreciative note
next morning to “Dear David” from
“J.T.” The dress-suit, by the way, passed
into the common currency, and was soon
being used by other political cartoonists.
Lord Birkenhead, on the other hand,
showed some resentment, which was
rather odd, considering that he himself
was a master of invective who did not
scruple to deliver the most bitter and
cutting wit at anybody’s expense. He
gave Beaverbrook a beautiful photograph
of himself to pass on to me as a guide to
his own personal configuration, from
which might be deduced a considerable
susceptibility to flattery.
doesn’t Low caricature him-
VV self?” asked an angrv correspon-
dent. Thus invited I dtil so, and
thereafter 1 appeared -fairly regularly in
my own cartoons in a kind of “Common
Man” capacity.
The representation was, I must confess,
not strictly approximate, even-caricatur-
ally. Pursuing a theory that small men
most easily engage the affections of the
public, I diminished my real size and
recreated myself as a sad little Charlie
Chaplin kind of character for public
use.
The correspondence continued until at
length it became accepted as normal, and
was referred to in the “Evening .Standard”
office as “Low’s Heavenly Choir.”
I. had a certain amount of trouble
then, as I have always had before and
since, in accustoming my spectators,
especially those with literal minds, to
the individual peculiarities of my
imagery. There was the man who
protested angrily against my Double-
headed Ass of Coalition days, maintain-
ing that there could be no such animal.
There was the occasion when I drew a
cartoon severely criticising the design
of the then-new memorial to Nurse Cavell
and was insulted by Sir lan Hamilton
at Claridge’s, the old war-horse being
under the impression that I had criticised
Nurse Cavell.
A COMPARATIVELY innocent
cartoon of mine about the Navy was
a case in point.
The Admiralty had issued a statement
that, as a result of an inquiry held at
Malta into certain disciplinary matters,
three senior officers of Royal Oak had
been suspended from duty by the
Commander-in-Chief of the Mediter-
ranean station. A report that a Rear-
Admiral had struck his flag was
confirmed.
At the subsequent courts-martial, which
were followed closely by the startled
nation, it appeared that the trouble had
grown out of a series of differences
between the Admiral and the officers of
his flagship, and especially one about the
kind of music played at a dance on board.
The Admiral, it was alleged, had said
in a loud and heated manner: “I don’t
think I ever heard such a bloody awful
noise in my life”; had called the band-
master a bastard, and was only mollified
when a jazz-band was substituted.
My cartoon, a harmless enough piece
of fun entitled “Syncopated Discipline
Recital on the Royal Oak,” showed the
court-martial proceeding along jazz-band
lines, with the, three -Admirals at the
drums, the chief witness giving his
evidence on a trombone, officers in
attendance accompanying on the saxo-
phone, banjo, etc.
It seemed to me to be a gentle jest, but
it appeared I was mistaken. In no time
it was the talk of the town. Sitting at
lunch with a friend at Groom’s Coffee
House in Fleet-street, I was surprised to
hear the people at the table on my left
discussing the cartoon. Then I became
aware that those at the table on my right
were discussing it too.
Next day, when I called at the office,
there was a really amazing mound of
letters, with the features-editor and two
assistants trying to sort it.
“It’s up to you to help us,” says he.
What a fuss! All the retired admirals
in the country seemed to taken a day
off to fire broadsides. “Execrable,”
“Blackguardly insult,” “Foul filth,”
“Aptly named Low,” “How long . . .”
etc.
I got a bit bored with reading other
people’s letters, so J sat down and wrote
one myself and slipped it in for publi-
cation: —
Sir,
I am disgusted wit-li some of the letters
you print concerning the cartoons of my
nephew Low. It astounds me that you
should sell the “Evening Standard” to
such people. I have advised my nephew
(a more gentlemanly lad never lived) to
stop drawing cartoons for your paper
until you promise not to let' these persons
have “Evening .Standards/’ It Js perfectly
disgusting. (lad, sir, I wish I were 75
years younger.
HORATIO LOW,
(Hon. Lieut.-Col. of the Holders flrecu
Eire Brigade).
Holders Hreen, N.W.I 1 \
I was touched when next day some-
body sent a bunch of flowers and expres-
sions of sympathy to my “uncle.”
T7T was perhaps too much of a good
thing that shortly afterwards, again
inadvertently, I touched another wider
and even more sensitive section of
opinion on the raw.
The offence was a cartoon referring
to difficulties which a famous writer on
the subject of Birth Control had
experienced with censorship in the Irish
Free State.
The cartoon was entitled “Attempted
Revolution in Dublin —Capture of
Desperate Person Found to Be in
Possession of Complete Set of Marie
Stopes.” It represented President
Cosgrave squeezed between two portly
Roman Catholic bishops in a large official
car heading a procession of a tight-,
lipped Censor on a white horse and an
armed escort for the wretched malefactor,
the latter’s wife and ten children bringing
up the rear.
The onlooking crowd was composed of
traditional Irish types of archaic
burlesque—button noses, long upper lips
and upside-down short cutty pipes.
D SHOULD have known well enough
from my own family connections and
from experience in Australian politics
that Irish wit is largely a myth—that the
Irish are a mystical people, and that
the sense of proportion which governs
the perception of humor does not, with
them, cover cherished hopes, fears and
beliefs.
This cartoon had no particular axe to
grind. It was, in fact, just a bit of fun
about a topic of public interest. True,
birth-control was then rather less openly
discussed than it is today ; and no doubt
my rooted dislike of the censorship of
opinion and my disinclination to accept
without protest the subservience of any
democratic Government to ecclesiastical
authority both peeped through. But I
was not prepared for the hullabaloo that
followed.
Judging from the volume of protests
that poured into the “Standard” office,
the Brannigans, the O’Flahertys and the
Macnamaras appeared to be rising as one
man against me. It was not necessary
for me to take part, for the Dooleys, the
Hooleys and the O’Tooles flocked to my
defence.
Moral coat-tails flew and verbal
shillelaghs whirled. Violent and coarse
abuse boiled through post and telephone.
I learned that the files of my past cartoons
were being gone over with a tooth-
comb for indecencies, presumably in the
hope of finding something to prove my
personal worthlessness.
The “Catholic Herald” lashed itself to
fury about “advocates of the obscenities
G f birth-control endeavoring to introduce
into the homes of the country the devices
used by prostitutes in carrying out their
trade ” which was perhaps overdoing it
_ i ltt L
d lllUe - •
. - . r ci.u fl uns a t the Irish
„ I] l lS SOrt J , n d V lne , 1
Free State, and the Catholic Church, and
MARIE STOPES
(The banning in Ireland of her birth-control books inspired Low to his
“Attempted Revolution in Dublin” cartoon. His caricature of the
controversial lady is from the “New Statesman” series.)
the Irish people generally... .the Lows
and the Beaverbrooks” —poor innocent
Max —“defame, denounce, calumniate
and jeer at the Irish people ”
“The most important aspect,” said the
“Catholic Times,” heavily elevating the
occasion to national level, “is the dis-
courtesy shown to a member of the Com-
monwealth of Nations.” It seemed as
though the whole Roman Catholic
community wanted my blood.
Still turning the other cheek, I devoted
another cartoon to depicting myself “On
Trial Before the Dublin OGPU —Accused
Makes* Full Confession” with the follow-
ing text: -
The trial took place before Judges
Hooligan, Harrigan and Flanagan, of Old
j,ow, charged with having drawn a
cartoon entitled “Revolution in Dublin”
showing the alleged arrest by alleged Free
State authorities of an alleged Irishman,
s" o pes? se Accused, “wb^wept
bitterly, confessed that said cartoon was
and K named° \i.
Briand and President Hoover as in the’
pl £ oss _ exainilied by Crown Prosecutor
Dooley, accused admitted that President
foul libel to say that President cosgrave
eat anywhere with two bishops.
He withdrew unreservedly the chief
implication that Free State authorities
would discourage their citizens from
possessing copies of “listed” books, and
he agreed that the Censorship was an
advertising organisation aiming at the sale
and distribution of sueh “listed” books
through the Free State. Accused was
sentenced to death amid howls of applause.
should have ended the matter.
But it did not. This, alas, was a
story “to be continued.”
I grew sick of being a target. I didn’t
mind political disagreement, but it was
evident that a lot of people were confused
not only about the art of caricature but
about the - function of the satirist in
society. So I took time off to write a
good long article putting everybody right.
The “Evening Standard” starred it up,
and when the foreign newscuttings came
in I was flattered to find it had a world-
wide audience.
C To be continued next week }


try it...
you'll like it!
a*Av. ; :>
t*eoo
«oft»«WWs^
the
KB
Lager
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY
TOOTH & CO LIMITED
K 8.165.18
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF hEft
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO STEPHEN ERNEST GROSS fete jf
Sydney. TAKE NOT I C E tha
MARGARET JANE GROSS has filed j
Petition for Divorce No. 1072'°* 1 ?‘
on the grounds of desertion without JR
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Di
Registry Supreme Court King Sti
Sydney by the 12th of April 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition v
charge from ROYDON JOSEPH PBTII
FORD, Solicitor, 19 Bayswater Road'
Kings Cross. —J. DOUGHAN, R?EJl_f_
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NE
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD WILLIAM >HCHAEL
HOFFMAN late of 166 William Sti
Kings Cross.—TAKE NOTICE that JEA«
MYRTLE HOFFMAN has filed a
for Divorce No., 4808 of 1952 o >
ground of desertion wthou H us * “" ds
or excuse for three years and upwaun
and is asking for the e x el «se £
Court’s discretion under 5.19 (2) j
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899
wisli to defend you may enteran appe
ance in the Divorce Office Registry
Supreme Court King Street .Sydney W
the 2nd of April 1957 and obtain a copy
of the petition t
COLREAVY & O’LEARY, Solici
26 Bridge Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHA
Registrar.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
Melbourne’s best performers
have already settled down to
their autumn campaign. The
Oakleigh Plate will be decided
next Saturday week, to be
followed early in March by the
Newmarket Handicap and the
Australian Cup carnival at
Flemington, at which a number
of inter-State horses will compete.
Odds-on supporters of Matrice
saw him run a good race in the
V.R.C. Lightning Stakes at
Flemington on Saturday, but he
wasn’t good enough to beat
Copper Year, also from
Adelaide. Copper Year heads
the Oakleigh Plate weights with
Gay. Vista on 9.7 and in the
Newmarket has been allotted
9.6 ; the stable intends to start
him in both, and he might well
win one of them, or even the
two. He is a grand sprinter and
remarkably consistent; in 30
starts he has won 15 races and
been in minor places eight times.
He and Matrice have met eight
times, Copper Year winning on
five occasions.
'Crack stayer Sailor’s Guide
showed on Saturday that he’s
back to his best form, though he
really wasn’t much tested in the
V.R.C. Blarney Stakes (w.f.a.;
H mile), with only two
opponents, Sir William and
Radiant Blue. Sailor’s Guide,
who has now won £42,734, had
a mere canter round for a.£1400
prize. His next engagement is
expected to be the St. George
Stakes (nine furlongs, w.f.a.) at
Caulfield on February 23 —
Oakleigh Plate day.
An interesting winner at
Flemington was King Nero, in
the six-furlongs Criterion
Handicap for two-year-olds.
King Nero is the first of the
progeny of former top-class
mare Chicquita to race, and he
won so well that it’s now
intended to run him in Mel-
bourne’s two-year-old classics.
Chicquita had 16 wins and won
£28,285 in stakes, third on the
list of winning fnares in Aus-
tralia, with only Flight and
Tranquil Star above her, and
only a couple of thousand
pounds separating the trio. King
Nero, who cost owner S. L.
Calvert 2300gns. as a yearling at
the Melbourne sales last year, is
by Empyrean (imp.); Chicquita
is by Blank (imp.) from Star
Faithful! by Equator (imp.)
from Linton Lowrie by Woorak.
Four-year-old mare Gay Sail-
ing, who gave J. Thompson an
easy ride in the Rosehill First
Maiden at the mid-week fixture,
was bred at The Lodge,
Dandenong (Vic.), and comes
from the family which produced
Whittier, Hostile and Joy stream.
She is a daughter of Masthead
(imp.) and Enthuse by Harinero
(imp.).
Biggest surprise on a Sydney
course for some time was
Denvid’s win in the 10-furlongs
Novice Handicap at the Rosehill
meeting. He led all the way, at
one stage being 15 lengths ahead
of his nearest follower. Prior
form was poor and he also had
an inexperienced apprentice,
J. Hughes, in the saddle (Hughes,
however, rode a splendid race).
New Zealand-bred, Denvid is by
a noted sire of stayers, Foxbridge
(imp.), from Rudabeh by Nizami
(imp.). One Rosehill doubles’
backer took the prior winner,
Ferrari, with all the Novice
horses bar Nautical Lad and
Denver. Ferrari and Denver paid
£509 9s, 9d. for ss.
Randwick trainer Fil Allotta
landed a double at Canterbury/
Park last Saturday with New
Kingdom and Prince Jambo.
The Prince is a' particularly
sifiart sprinter when the sting is
out of the ground following light
rain. New Kingdom had his
initial success in the First
Maiden for two-year-olds. Mrs.
A. C. Nagel paid 2600gns. for
the Star Kingdom (imp.) colt at
the‘Randwick yearling-sales last
year. His dam, Renewal, is by
Veilmond from Parapet by
Brueghel (It.).
Early in the two-year-old
season Dubbo, from the T. J.
Smith stable, was hailed as a
potential top-ranker, but he
wasn’t produced for his first race
until Saturday at Canterbury
Park. He left no doubt about
the accuracy of those early
reports, winning easing-up,
despite running about a lot
during the race. He shapes good
enough for the best juvenile
company. He’s another of the
Newtown Wonder speedsters,
and is from former smart mare
Sunshine Express, who as a two-
year-old won the A.J.C.
December Stakes, running that
five furlongs in 59|sec.
Making his first appearance
after a spell of more than four
months, three-year-old Water-
ford looked slightly on the burly
side before the start of the
Second Ashbury Stakes at
Canterbury Park, and he eased
in betting froiq s’s to B’s. How-
ever, he beat all except
Republique, also reappearing
after an absence of more than
six months, but looking in solid
racing condition and confidently
supported by the stable, firming
from 25’s to 12’s and winning
well. Still, Waterford seems a
class above Graduation-ranks,
and is bound to have been |
improved by the outing.
Next Saturday’s meeting at
Rosehill is expected to see th§
return to racing of Melbourne
Cup winner Evening Peal and
outstanding two - year - old
Concert Star, whose first clash
with Todman later on should be
something to see. Tulloch, too,
may be at Rosehill next Satur-
day, along with such other
smart two-year-olds as Diamond
Vista and Flying Kurana. Gay
Lover, who is well forward in
condition and is a Doncaster
aspirant, is weighted. for the
Flying Handicap. Evening Peal,
Commissionaire, King’s Fair,
Teranyan and Aboukir were also
still in that sprint at time of
writing. Gay Lover is now a
stablemate of Teranyan and
Gay Vista, so Rosebery mentor
Leo O’Sullivan holds a strong
sprinting hand.
At their fifth clash in a fort-
night, Betty Cuthbert at last
defeated Marlene Matthews, in
the N.S.W. 220yds. title—her
first N.S.W. senior-title win.
Matthews tripped almost at the
tape, but Cuthbert was in front,
and had won. The track was
soft, but the time was a new
Australian record (23.95ec.). -
* * *
The singles-final of the
Ampol professional tennis
tournament in Sydney was not,
as tipped, either Gonzales-
Sedgman or Gonzales-Rose wall.
Certainly Sedgman was there,
after blasting Rosewall off the
court in a straight-sets semi-
final ; but his opponent in the
final (who in turn did ’some
blasting) was Segura, who had
disposed of Gonzales in the
other semi-final, coming stub-
bornly from behind, two sets
down, to do so. In his first-
round match Segura had fought
back against Hartwig, after
Hartwig had gone within a point
or two of winning the match.
In the final, last Sunday, he’d
come from well behind (2-5) to
win the first set; after that it was
mainly Segura, 7-5, 6-0, 6-4.
“ LITTLE" PANCHO
Pancho Segura, here aced by Lusby,
is Ecuador’s best-known tennis pro-
duct. Born June 20, 1921, he took-up
the game when his father got a job
as caretaker of a tennis-court in his
home town of Guayaquil, and rapidly
improved. As an amateur he was
ranked in the first 10 in U.S. from
1942 to 1947, when he turned pro-
fessional. Possibly the most colorful
player of the age, his two-handed fore-
hand drive has been described by
Kramer as “the greatest single stroke
ever.” “Little” Pancho (of smaller'
build, thus he’s distinguished from
Gonzales ) has won three out of five
professional tours, and was U.S. pro-
fessional champion in 1950 and 1952.
“R.8.C.”: Let’s clear up the
case further confused by “J.S.L.”
(B. 61'11’57). Here is the note to
Law 47 in the Laws of Cricket:
“An appeal ‘How’s that?’ covers
all ways of being out (within the
jurisdiction of the umpire
appealed to), unless a specific
way of getting out is stated by
the person asking.” In Law 47
itself it says: “The umpire at
the bowler’s end 4 shall answer
appeals before the other
umpire, except stumped, hit-
wicket or run-out.” So, in
theory, if 11 of the fielding side
could keep quiet when the catch
is made, then appeal specifically
for the run-out to the umpire at
the batting-end, Bradman would
be out. But I just can’t see all
of these 11 men keeping quiet,
even if it was the greatest rabbit
in the world who hit the catch.
“Atala”: When he umpired in
the S.A.-Queensland Sheffield
Shield match in Adelaide last
December, 27-year-old insurance-
salesman Colin Egar became the
youngest ump. ever to officiate
in a Shield match. A regular
umpire in pennant-cricket, Egar
is better known in Adelaide as a
football (Australian Rules) field-
umpire. Since 1950 he’s had
charge of over 60 Adelaide
league games, and last season
controlled Adelaide’s second
semi-final, preliminary-final and
grand-final. He had to give up
football himself when only 18
through a jarred cartilage ; but
this doesn’t prevent his ( being
quite fit enough to be field-
umpire, one of the most physi-
cally exacting of all refereeing
jobs. With Adelaide’s No. 1
football - umpire, Max Hall,
deciding he’s had enough, Egar
should get top billing this year.
“Keima”: While the choice of
a young player like Tan Craig as
Australian captain in N.Z. is
praiseworthy and a proper
encouragement of youth, may I
be allowed to put in a word of
praise for the captaincy of
Australia’s most experienced
Test-player, Ray Lindwall?
Lindwall has always been known
as a keen student of cricket;
and his leadership of Queens-
land in the past two seasons bears
out this rating. His field
captaincy always meets with the
critics’ ' approval. What has
impressed me in particular (in
the two testimonial-matches in
which he’s captained sides, too)
has been his unselfish handling
of other pace-bowlers who could
be rivals for tour-places—and
there’s been no keeping himself
on if he’s not getting any wickets
(though he’s been picking-up his
share). Lindwall should be a
capable Test-captain; and I
would like to see him cap his
career by leading Australia to
South Africa. It’s a pity Keith
Miller never led Australia in a
Test-series.
“K.R.”: When Balmain
(Sydney) opening - batsmen
Gordon Cansdell, with 144, and
Angus Mackinnon (109) recently
made a first-wicket stand of 253
against Northern District it was
acclaimed a club record;
actually, it just missed. The
Tigers’ opening-stand record is
255, made against Wests in 1921-
22 by G. Wheatley, (139) and
H. S. Love (111). “Hammy”
Love, now 61, played in the
“junior” McCabe-O’Reilly testi-
monial at North Sydney ; he’s
the chap who was selected as
’keeper in the fourth 1932 Test
after Oldfield had been knocked
unconscious by Larwood in the
third. Cansdell and Mackinnon
first opened for Balmain together
over 15 years ago ; Mackinnon
has also played in Adelaide and
Melbourne pennant - cricket,
scoring first-grade centuries in
both those cities as well as in
Sydney.
*l * *
“Joanne”: There are few
more consistent on the bowls-
greens in Australia than Glyn
Bosisto, who recently won the
Victorian singles for the third
time. Bosisto’s record since
1949 includes four Australian
singles-titles, three champion-of-
champions, and Australian
representative at the 1954
Empire Games. Altogether he
has won 17 club championships.
He’ll probably go pretty well in
the national titles in Launceston
this month.
* * *
Queensland swimmer David
Theile, who won the 100-metres
backstroke title at the Olympic
Games, won titles in three styles
at the recent Queensland
championships. Previously
unknown even in Queensland
except as a backstroker, Theile
won the 100-metres breaststroke
(in the best time ever recorded
by a Queenslander) and the 50-
metre freestyle—as well as, of
course, winning the 100-metre
and 200-metre backstroke. He
heads the Queensland team for
the Australian titles, beginning
in Canberra on Saturday.
* * *
“Dib”: This is the age of
record-breaking due in the
main to advances in diet and
training methods, and in im-
proved conditions for competing
(faster athletic-tracks, swimming-
pools heated to an ideal
temperature). But surely there
must be a physiological limit to
record-breaking. For instance,
will it be humanly possible,
whatever the improvement in
conditions, ever to run 100yds.
in under 9.osec.; or the mile in
under 3min. 50sec.? When that
limit is being reached, the setting
of new times must become
almost impossible.


Public Notices
On the sth day of March 1957 applica-
tion will be made by JOHN WILLIE
HIRST and EMILY AGNES CARSE and
!the equity trustees executors
AND AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED (as
Executor of ROBERT GORDON GALL
deceased) and THE UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(as Executor of ALFRED FREDERICK
McMAHON deceased) and NORAH
HEHIR (as Executrix of EDWARD
HEHIR deceased) and THOMAS H.
UREN (as Executor of DAVID
FREDERICK UREN deceased) to the
Supreme Court of Victoria for payment
out to them of £314 Is. 7d. being the
whole of the assets of FEDERAL REALTY
COMPANY PROPRIETARY LIMITED
which was struck off the Register on
the 21st day of January 1953 pursuant
to Section 295 of the Companies Act
1938 and of accrued interest thereon.
Any Creditor or other person wishing to
object should appear at the hearing of
the said application or should com-
municate with MESSRS. ALEXR. GRANT
DICKSON & KING, Solicitors, at 119
William Street, Melbourne, before that
date.
On the sth day of March 1957 applica-
tion will be made by JOHN WILLIE
hirst, the equity trustees
EXECUTORS AND AGENCY COMPANY
LIMITED (as Executor of ROBERT
GORDON GALL deceased) and the
UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY OF AUS-
TRALIA LIMITED (as Executor of
ALFRED FREDERICK McMAHON de-
ceased) to the Supreme Court of Victoria
for payment out to them of £ll2 ss. 8d
being the whole of the assets' of
GASTHIR PROPRIETARY LIMITED
which was struck off the Register on the
21st day of January 1953 pursuant to
Section 295 of the Companies Act 1938
and of accrued interest thereon. Am
Creditor dr other person wishing to
object should appear at the hearing of
the said application or should communi
cate with MESSRS. ALEXR. GRANT
DICKSON & KING, Solicitors, at 119
William Street, Melbourne, before that
date.
kuv mom sate!
SANDERS
I
Correspondence, invoices,
statements, etc., filed in the
"Sanders'* can be securely
bound and converted info a
perfect book: of reference at
the end of each month —Or
any other period.
s
Prices end fur*
ther Information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE .
PERTH % .
Norman Bros. Pty. Lt&
Vardon Price Ltd.
Ooskct Book Co. (Aust.)
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women- t
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
r
M |
Blue Gillette
BLADES IN THE
QUICK-FEED
DISPENSER
m
m
S':
D
y
Q
★ BUY THIS
★ LOAD a new blade in a flash
Really quick-action blade-changing ... a thrust
with your thumb and a brand new factory-sharp Blue
Gillette Blade slips easily into your razor to make your
next shave pure pleasure.‘What's more, the quick-feed
Dispenser has a convenient compartment to take
care of used blades.
the best si
having buy IN TOWN
GILLETTE ROCKET SET
M Set in its streom-
The famous Gillette Rocket set in .
Dispenser, costs only 12/-.
* PUT USED BLADE IN HERE
Gillette
10 BLADE QUICK-FEED DISPENSER 4/4
5-BLADE PACKET, 2/2 • 10-BLADE PACKET, 4/4
KO42A
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Fair Girls and
yjT?y Horses, by Will H. Ogilvie.—
6464.
To sell the following: Australian
Stud Merino Register; Beef Short-
horn in Australia, by M. H. Ellis;
Shorthorn Herd Book of Australia;
Australian Stud Book; Evolution of
Australian Merino, by E. W. Cox;
Blood Stock Breeders” review; and
a book on breeding of racehorses by
the figure system.—646s.
Information Sought
Some information on Colonel Tom
Price, connected in SQme way with
the Victorian Mounted Rifles ?
Thomas Caradoc Rose Price, he
was born at Hobart on Oct. 21, 1842.
His father, John Price (fourth sbn
of Sir Rose Price, baronet), went to
Tasmania in 1835, was appointed
police-magistrate at Hobart in 1838,
and in 1848 became chief super-
intendent of convicts at Norfolk
Island. Appointed chief inspector
of convict establishments in Victoria
in 1853, he was stoned by convicts
at Williamstown on March 26, 1857,
and died the next day. His son,
after preliminary education at
Hobart, went to Scotch College in
Melbourne and then to a military
college in England. He entered the
British Arpiy in 1861 and saw service
m India. In 1872 he was given the
thanks of the Government for his
"untiring energy and resource”
during the cyclone of May 2. In 1883
he retired from the Army and
returned to Australia. Given a loose
rein by Victorian Defence Minister
Sargood. Price reorganised the Vic-
torian military forces, originated the
Mounted Rifles (later called the Light
Horse) and was largely responsible
tor the spread of the rifle-club move-
ment. Early in 1900 he went to South
Africa in command of the second
Victorian contingent and was engaged
m much front-line service; in this
command twice injured by shell-fire,
he was the only Australian officer of
the permanent forces to see the first
phase of the Boer War through. He
was decorated for good service in the
campaign—C.B., medal and five
clasps. After his return he was for
a time in command of the Victorian
forces, and in July, 1902, took com-
mand in Queensland. He retired on
Aug. 1, 1904, and lived for the
remainder of his life at Warrnambool
(Vic.), He died on July 3, 1911.
* * * *
(1) Is it true that several U.S.
Presidents have died on America’s
National Day {July 4 )? (2) Is
President Eisenhower the oldest man
elected as President ? (3) Who was
youngest President on, taking office?
(4) How many Vice-Presidents have
succeeded to the Presidency on the
death of the President? (5) How
many of those Vice-Presidents have
been elected for a further term dfter
serving the unexpired terms of their
predecessors ?
(1) Yes. Three. John Adams
(second President, 1797-1801) and
Thomas Jefferson (President, 1801-09)
both died on July 4, 1826, and James
Monroe (1817-25) on July 4, 1831.
[Calvin Coolidge (1923-29) was born
on July 4 (1872).] (2) No : President
Eisenhower (born Oct. 14, 1890) was
66 when re-elected last November.
William Henry Harrison, President
for one month (Mar. 4 to Apr. 4,
1841), was over 68. (3) Theodore
Roosevelt, 43 when elected on the
assassination of President McKinley
in 1901. (4) Seven. John Tyler
(succeeding on death of W. H.
Harrison, 1841), Millard Fillmore
(Zachary Taylor, 1850), Andrew
Johnson (Abraham Lincoln, 1865),
Chester A. Arthur (James A. Gar-
field, 1881), Theodore Roosevelt
(William McKinley, 1901), Calvin
Coolidge (Warren Q. Harding, 1923)
and Harry S. Truman (F. D.
Roosevelt, 1945). (5) Three —
Theodore Roosevelt, Coolidge and
Truman.
Brief Answers
A.F.J.: There are about 13,800
aborigines in the Northern Territory.
Of these, about 600 are nomadic,
4000 / to 5000 are in regular contact
with mission-stations, and about 3000
with Government settlements. Most
of the remainder are employed either'
in the pastoral, agricultural, mining
or urban areas, or are dependants ‘of
those employed. Total employment
at June 30, 1955, was 3533. Of
these, 2438 were employed as follows:
2299 as station-laborers and 139 as
drovers; 376 on Government settle-
ments; 333 in towns, as domestics or
laborers or in defence or Government
departments; 138 in agriculture; 83
in the mining-industry. The remainder
were employed in buffalo-shooting,
marine-industries, the timber-industry,
and as patrol-assistants or trackers in
the police force D.C.S.: (From
S. L. Allman, Chief Entomologist,
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture.)
From your rough • description, it
seems that the insect concerned is
Paragryllus combusta, a long-horned
grasshopper, which is usually not a
pest. A definite determination could
be made on the receipt of specimens.
. ...F.G.8.: (From Anthony
Horderns’.) By flexible straw-hat we
presume a hat is required that can
be rolled-up. If so, this type is not
available. All panama-hats and straw-
hats are now blocked into permanent
shapes and treated so that they will
hold their shape. They are, there-
fore, a totally firmer type, less
flexible and quite unsuitable to be
rolled-up or crushed an any way.
J.H.: The verse comes from
“Tales of a Wayside Inn,” Part 11,
“The Theologian’s Tale: The Legend
Beautiful,” by Henry Wadsworth
Longfellow. It may be found in
Hiawatha, Etc., .by»Longfellow, in
the World’s Classics series published
by the Oxford University Press....
E.M.H.: Difficult to say without see-
ing the book; only rarely are books
with plates missing of much value,
and the one you describe would prpb-
ably not be worth very much.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
M.W.: You have a weird imagina-
tion and a weirder idea of spelling
0.G.: Twelve closely typewritten
pages ab’out a cranky old cow called
Strawberry and a playful billygoat
called Oswald are, if we may say so,
a shade over the odds T.C.:
Spoilt by the overstrained smartness
of the style M.N.8.: Too stilted
and grandiloquent L.P.: A violent
left jolt landed your prizefighter in
the basket S.T.S.: Needed more
vigorous and dramatic treatment... |
C.K.S.: When did we print anything
that encouraged you to send a thing
like that to us? L.G.: Jeremiah'
was an optimist compared with you.
E.M.W.: Idea has been yvorn to
tatters... .A.0’8.: No one unleashes
a “soul’s sad wail” in this sheet.
“The mopoke’s cry” is also off
V.F.: No; “Bushland —Its Beautiful
Glories” is not poetry. Frankly, we
don’t quite know what it is... .M.T.:
A very old and weary subject....
J.E.F.: If “Health and Wealth” were
as good on the literary as on the
ethical side, it would have scored
heavily. As it is, it was k.o.’d in
the first round... .H.J.J.: Put it away
in a drawer for six months, then try
it again.. . .A.W.Q.: Mundane
C.T.A.: You’d killed-off all your
characters before the yarn even
started....V.J.-D.: Wry... L.S.D.:
Wry again... .P.C.D.: All that blood
and thunder, blonde and thallium
hardly our piece of cake... .S.A.S.:
Too many ripples tor one little brook.
.... R.E.W.: Verbose.... F.C.: Your
fast-bowler is limbering-up in the
w.p.b.; he can try his outswinger on
the cleaner... .D.1.F.: “Why do the
trainees so furiously rage together?”
You tell us:
Perhaps it’s the shape of the legs, not
the kilt
Which causes the gaze of the lassies to
wilt.
It can’t be the pattern of reds, greens
and blacks—
They wear much more flamboyant styles
on their backs.
The drilling and fighting they’re willing
to chance,
Although more at home with a girl at a
dance.
They’d laugh when the bullets and
bombs round th&n whirl,
But couldn’t face up to the bagpipes’
weird skirl. 1
.... Mclrish: By all means try
again. But any purchase of a type-
writer is entirely at your own risk.


CHATEAU TANUNDA
Stories of the Coastal Lights No. 2
Tacking Point
Twenty lighthouses guard the 700 miles of New South
Wales coastline. The average distance between these lights
is 32$ miles so that in many instances one light is not lost
before the next appears.
Some of the lights are exceedingly powerful. For example,
the lights at Sydney (the Macquarie Lighthouse), Barrenjoey
and Cape Byron are.all visible for 25 miles or more in clear
weather. Among our smaller lights is the one at Tacking
Point, five miles south of Port Macquarie, which can be seen
for 12 miles.
Tacking Point was named by Matthew Flinders in 1802
during his survey voyage north. A lighthouse was established
there in 1879, a small white fixed light of less than 1,000
candle power being shown from a 17 ft. brick tower. This
was what is known as a catadioptric light—that is, a t;eflected
light strengthened by being passed through a lens. ' It was
105 ft. above high water and cost £4,650 to build.
After 40 years in charge of a lightkeeper, this lighthouse
was converted to automatic on October 31, 1919, being re-
placed by a group flashing wlyte light of 1,500 candle power.
The acetylene gas used in this and most of the other auto-
matic lights on the N.S.W. coast is- contained in cylinders
which are changed once a year, but the Tacking Point station
is visited every quarter by a mechanic to check that everything
is in order.
More than 20 wrecks have occurred in the area. The first
of them was the schooner Black Joke in 1823, two years after
Port Macquarie had been established by Governor Lachlan
Macquarie. Amongst major wrecks was the loss of the steamer
Sumatra again in 1823. This was one of the worst sea disasters
in Australian history, 46 lives being lost. At least 15 other
ships have been lost in the Port Macquarie area since the
light was established.
The position of the Tacking Point light is latitude 31° 29'
south, longitude 152° 56' east. It is 173 nautical miles north
of Sydney by sea and some 5 miles south of the popular holi-
day resort of Port Macquarie. Access to the lighthouse is by
an excellent road unsurpassed for scenic beauty on the whole
of the East coast.
“There’s Safety in the quality oj
CHATEAU TANUNDA
N.S.W. Agents
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 119 years
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SHIPPING DEVELOPMENTS
'THE Suez crisis has resulted
-*• in oil - tankers receiving
more prominence than usual in
world-shippipg news, but it is
interesting to note that other
varieties of shipping, particu-
larly the passenger-lines, appear
to be holding their own against
competition from the air.
Suez emphasised the need for
tankers large enough to make it
an economic proposition to take
oil around the Cape to Britain
and Europe, and these are in
sight or already here. While
solving one problem, however,
they have, for Britain anyway,
brought others.
One of these noted by “Man-
chester Guardian” is the matter
of ports. The paper points out
that “oil-tankers of 100,000 tons
are no longer, a dream ; two, or
perhaps three, of these giants
will be at sea within the next
three years. The Universe
Leader, of 85,000 tons, is already
carrying oil, and tankers of
60,000 tons or more will exist in
fleets before long.”
Britain, however, “cannot
benefit from super-tankers unless
they can discharge their oil here,
and as things are there is not a
single British oil-port capable of
receiving a 60,000i-tonner, let
alone a tanker of 100,000 tons.”
While Milford Haven should
be able to accommodate 100,000-
tonners by 1960, “there are seven
refineries in other parts of the
country which could use the
cargoes brought by super-tankers
with advantage.”
Suggesting dredging of exist-
ing terminals and “immensely
long jetties” as possible pallia-
tives, the “M anch ester
Guardian” adds that the most
useful solution might be the use
of two or three existing deep-
water harbors in conjunction
with “a kind of national grid of
of oil-pipelines enabling refineries
to draw oil from any port that
can take super-tankers”:
“That might be a form- of
strategic insurance as well as
bringing economic advantages.
It should certainly be con-
sidered.”
Commenting on Atlantic
passenger-traffic, J. F. A. Frost,
London “Daily Telegraph”
shipping - correspondent, notes
that four new liners will be
added this year to the 70 already
plying between Europe and the
U.S., and that “there will be
room for all if the North
Atlantic Conference lines - can
eclipse the 1956 record of more
than 1,004,000 passengers the
first time the million-mark has
been passed for il years.”
The new ships listed by Frost
are the Holland-America liner
Stalendam (24,300 tons), the
Canadian Pacific Empress of
England (22,000 tons), the
Swedish-America liner Grips-
holm (24,000 tons) and the latest
Cunarder, the Sylvania (21,600
tons).
On Britain’s part in future
Atlantic traffic, Frost comments
that the Cunard Line, which has
the biggest Atlantic passenger-
fleet, is unlikely to build another
Queen-size liner (the Queen
Elizabeth and Queen Mary,
understood to have cost a little
more than £lO million altogether,
would cost anything between £3O
million and £4O million today),
but is “watching carefully” the
possibilities of the gas-turbine
and nuclear power for ships.
Nuclear power, Frost adds, is
probably about 10 years off for
cargo-ships and even further
away for passenger-liners, but
on the gas-turbine it is his- im-
pression “that the Cunard may
operate the world's first
passenger-liner propelled by gas-
turbine. For several years John
Brown and Co., Ltd., who build
most of the Cunarders, have
been experimenting with a gas-
turbine in their Clydebank yard,
with what success is not known.
It could be that progress is such
that a combined effort by these
two old partners in liner-design
may be expected in the net-far-
London “New Statesman"
“ ...AND NOW WE CAN STILL BE FRIENDS.”
distant future to put Britain in
the lead once more.”
The Australian passenger-run
can look forward to two new
liners in the next few years —
a P. and O. liner now on order
from Belfast and an Orient liner,
the Oriana, now building at
Barrow-in-Furness.
Discussing some of the details,
Petej* Duff, editor of “The
Shipping World,”/comments in
London “Financial Times”
that although the designs of the
two vessels show “radical
differences,” similar considera-
tions govern their size and power
and their performances will be
“much the same.”
Factors which P. and O. had
to consider, Duff adds, were
“the ■ potential increase of
population in and emigration to
Australia, the economic possi-
bilities of the country, the
growth of air competition, and
of United States shipping com-
petition in the Pacific.
“Potential profitability . was
determined largely by the speed
and turnround factor. A ship
of 271-knots speed in service
could make the round voyage to
the Pacific coast of North
America, via Australia and New
Zealand,, in 98 days, a sub-
stantial saving in time compared
with the 221-knots speed of the
fastest existing ships.
“The basic decision to raise
the speed from 221 to 271 knots
determined maciy elements of
the new design. More speed
demands a longer hull, with
portionate increases in other
dimensions and gross tonnage.
The increase in speed of five
khots required about double the
shaft-horsepower, which had to
increase from 42,000 to 85,000
s.h.p. maximum, and demanded
an optimum length of 740 ft.
between perpendiculars, with a
beam of 102 ft? and a load-
draught of 31ft. 6in., producing
a step-up in gross tonnage from
about 29,000 tons to about 45,000
tons, and a ship still capable of
passing through the Suez Canal.”
By the time P. and O.’s two
new ships are in service, Duff
concludes, “they are expected to
have cost about £25 million, and
possibly more, since fixed prices
are unobtainable in present con-
ditions. Nevertheless, they will
be capable of doing the work of
three ships of the smaller size
and speed now in service, and
three smaller ships would cost
more than two larger ships to
ouild.”
There remains the question of
nuclear power for ships, and on
this, also in London “Financial
Times,” Richard Godwin
(project-manager of the Nuclear
Powered Merchant Ships depart-
ment of the U.S. Atomic Energy
Commission) suggests that
although it is economically “still
some years away, technological
advances have come at such a
rate in recent years that a nation
is more often than not
economically unprepared to
accept them.”
He adds that nuclear power
may be an economic proposi-
tion for Ihips “sooner than for
stationary land-plants”:
“It is expected that nuclear
ships will be able to achieve
higher sustained speeds over
longer runs than conventionally
powered ships. Since refuelling
will not be required nuclear
ships! will require less time for
turnround in port. Factors such
as these are believed to more
than offset what might at first be
relatively higher fuel costs for
nuclear-propelled ships. '
“The present period is one
during which there will be
possibly a slow but certainly a
steady decline in the costs of
nuclear power. It is my belief
that in about five years nuclear
propulsion will compete favor-
ably from an economic stand-
point with fossil-fuel power-
plants in new ships' which it is
proposed to operate at high
speeds over long runs.
“All indications point to the
fact that we stand on the
threshold of the nuclear age in
merchant shipping. I am con-
vinced that progress from here
on will be swift and most prob-
ably dramatic.”
Britain and Europe
Press comment already noted
on these pages has, while
supporting closer ties between
Britain and Europe, suggested
that it would be dangerous to
use current anti-American feel-
ing in Britain as one of the
reasons for moving into closer
association with the Continent.
Be that as it may, the feeling
is there, as indicated in the
following typical expression of it
in a letter to London “Daily
Telegraph” from Major-General
P. H * B. Wall, M.P.:
“I am becoming increasingly
disgusted at the way our
[Britain’s] so-called intellectuals
persist in spreading defeatism.
They claim that Britain is
now 'a second-rate or third-
rate Power, and they maintain
that, if we are to safe-
guard our present standard of
living, there are only two alter-
native courses of action.
“Either, it seems, we must
become a permanent pensioner
and satellite of the United
States or we must divest ourselves
of our imperial and international
responsibility and live as befits
the inhabitants of a small island
situated off the north-west coast
of Europe.
“In the long run the present
wave of anti-American feeling
may turn out to be advantageous
to this country. In this respect
the working man, not the intel-
lectual, voices the true feeling of
Britain. He is fed-up with
‘having to depend on the Yanks’
and furious at ‘having been seen
off by the Wogs.’
“He is determined to assert his
country’s independence, and he
is, I believe, prepared to work
much harder to achieve this aim.
He is beginning to realise that
the strength of our counsel in
international affairs depends on
the strength of our economy at
home and he is determined to
see Britain’s influence revivified.
“It is a matter of supreme
importance that we should
realise that though Britain alone
may not be the strongest world
Power, she has, as the mother of
the Commonwealth, a greater
potential in character, experience,
technical ability, manpower and
industrial and natural resources
than either the United States or
Soviet Russia.
“As the Colonial Empire
shrinks the Commonwealth
expands. The. Americans wish
to understand Asia ; we [Britain]
already have three co-equal
Asian partners. The Americans
wish to develop Africa; we
already have a partner in South
Africa, a second emerging in
Central this year we
salute our first West African
partner to emerge in full Com-
monwealth status.
“The lesson of the past few
months is that we must devote
all our. efforts to developing the
Commonwealth both by invest-
ment of capital and by migration,
and that, because we have neither
enough capital nor sufficient
manpower or technicians, we
must encourage Western Euro-
pean nations to assist us in this
task.
“Europe looks to us for a
lead. May it not be that, in due
course, European nations may
wish to be admitted to closer
association with this expanding
Commonwealth or even to join
this co-equal union of nations
which, unlike the United
Nations, has not only shown that
it can work but stood the test
of time?”
The Gaza Strip
London “Economist” ready-
reference to an Israel-Egypt sore
point:
“Thirty miles long and seven
wide, the Gaza strip is not
legally Egyptian territory. It was
part of Palestine, and was
occupied by Egypt during the
Palestine war of 1948-49. The
armistice line, cutting between
the opposing armies as they
stood at the 1948 cease-fire, con-
firmed Egypt’s tenancy until
last November.
“Economically, the strip is a
liability. It cannot provide a
livelihood for its 100,000
normal inhabitants, far less for
twice that number of Arab
refugees, who fled there from
Palestine in' 1948 and depend
on the United Nations Relieh
and Works Agency. Even with
good will, the opportunities for
self-support are meagre in the
extreme. Most of the permanent
inhabitants are even worse oft
than the refugees.
“Only a quarter of the
territory is cultivated. Barley,
melons, citrus fruit and dates are
among the main crops. Surplus
produce is sold outside the strip,
and last year exports to Egypt
and other Arab States were
valued at £500,000, about haft
being citrus fruit. But imports
were about four times the size
of exports. Occupation of Gaza
is an expensive business, entail-
ing free and subsidised food-
distribution for the inhabitants,
the carriage of supplies for the
refugees (one of the few costs
carried by the occupying Powei
and not the Agency), mainten-
ance of the inadequate social
services, and security.
“Israel has given its occupa-
tion an air of permanency.
Superimposed oh the conditions
of a military occupation-


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices'.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
New INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
hove reserve load-carrying capacity!
Rugged trucks with stronger
chassis and springs, axles and
transmissions proved on
“ Trial by Torture ”, offer
reserve capacity to handle
the tough jobs.
a
~/i
m
w
AS-160
International AS-160
Truckmen’s choice for more USABLE horsepower,
easy handling and cab comfort!
j Reserve Capacity!
If your job calls for reliable medium-heavy duty trucks, see
the International AS-160, 161 and 162 each model
equipped to match a different transport-task.
Usable Horsepower!
It’s the usable horsepower for heavy duty work that counts
—power developed at lower, economical engine speeds. The
new Australian Black Diamond ABD-240 engine fitted to
the International AS-160 and AS-161 develops maximum
brake H.P. of 131 at 3,800 R.P.M. Maximum torque is
208.5 lbs. ft. at 2,000 R.P.M.
The International AS-162 trucks use the ABD-264 engine
—developing 140 max. B.H.P- at 3,800 R.P.M. Maximum
torque is 234 lb. ft. at 2,000 R.P.M.
More Comfort!
Operator-designed Comfo-Vision cabs with sweep-sight
curved windscreen are the roomiest on the road. Drivers
can really relax, work longer without fatigue.
AS-162 with semi-trailer attachment.
I
I.H. Dealers for sales and service in all important centres.
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
ALL-TRUCK BUILT TO SAVE YOU THE BIG MONEY!
FMT-739/36
London “Daily Express”
"AND, OF COURSE, NOT A WORD ABOUT THE OTHER DEMANDS UNTIL MR.
GAITSKELL IS FIRMLY IN THE SADDLE.”
curfew from dusk till morning,
screening of teachers, strict non-
fraternisation —are more positive
and peaceful tactics.
“Arrangements have been
made to sell Gaza fruit through
the Israel Citrus Marketing
Board ;• Israeli stamps and
currency have been introduced ;
there has been talk of land-
development schemes. The
refugees, who had in any case
no reason to like the Israelis,
were further alienated by the
disruption of their supplies and
by the ‘incidents’—a series of
appalling blunders which caused
the massacre of large numbers
of refugees. The local popula-
tion is, however, gradually being
wooed.
“But these schemes are only
the trimmings of Israeli policy.
The main issue is security.
Apart from its Egyptian and
Palestinian Arab garrisons, Gaza
was a base for the more
organised type of fedayeen raid.
The Israeli police have been
busy, but they can only cut
down the organisation, not root
it out. It is Israel’s case that if
its security-forces leave the strip,
no United Nations army can
prevent the roots from
branching.”
Spanish Gold
Twenty years ago, during the
Spanish Civil War, Juan Negrin,
Finance Minister of the
Republican Government,
exported his country’s gold-
reserve to Russia to prevent it
falling into Franco’s hands.
When Negrin died in Paris last
November one of his last acts
was to arrange for the official
receipts for the gold to be
handed to Franco, a gesture
which “New York Times”
describes as typical of Negrin,
“for it was made on behalf of
Spain and the Spanish people,
without any thought for the
Caudillo, whom he fought as
long as he could.”
It remains for Franco’s
Government to get the gold,
now estimated as being worth
between $4OO million and $5OO
million.
The obstacle is that there is
no diplomatic recognition
between Franco’s Spain and
Russia, the Soviet still
acknowledging the Spanish
Government-in-exile which is
headquartered in Paris.
Commenting elsewhere in
“N. Y. Times,” C. L. Sulzberger
suggests that if Moscow does not
come across after being pre-
sented with the official receipts,
Spain will take its case to The
Hague World Court. There are,
he adds, reasons why the two
countries might move towards
diplomatic recognition of each
other:
“Moscow desires to exchange
Embassies with Madrid for
highly pragmatic reasons. A
diplomatic mission in ' Spain
could help co-ordinate clande-
stine propaganda and direction
of espionage against American
military bases. It could also
promote expansion of hitherto
indirect commercial relation-
ships. The Soviets wish access to
Spanish mineral wealth.
“Madrid certainly covets its
treasure. The national finances
are in desperate condition. A
half-a-billion dollars would aid
immensely in putting the
country on its feet. The ques-
tion therefore resolves itself
quite simply. Does Spain want
the gold enough to give recogni-
tion? Does Russia want
recognition enough to give up
the gold?
“There is no prospect of any
swift resolution of this problem.
But both countries involved in
the discussion are noted for their
qualities of patience and
endurance.”
Nasser
Edinburgh “Scotsman”
comment on Nasser’s take-over
of British banks, insurance
companies and commercial firms
—“a logical continuation of his
policy”:
“These concerns had already
been sequestered after the Suez
attack when they were looked
on as enemy property. Now
they are ‘Egyptianised,’ whatever
that may meaii.
“Whatever it means, it cannot
solve Nasser’s problems for long.
The natural indignation at what
may seem here just one more
arbitrary act, one more attack
on British property, makes it
all too easy to overlook the far
greater damage Egypt has
inflicted on Jierself.
“During the next five years or
so ‘friendly’ property will go the
way of ‘enemy.’ It is reason-
able then to ask what country
can possibly consider investing
in Egypt the capital she so
desperately needs.
“The odd £ 135-million-worth
of assets gained will serve only
to tide Nasser over the most
immediate economic difficulties
created by his own suicidal
policy. It is part of this policy
to free Egypt from the yoke of
‘capitalist exploitation.’
“Although Nasser has pro-
tested, no doubt sincerely, his
great unwillingness to exchange
one yoke for another, the effect
of these actions is to make his
country utterly dependent on
Communist help.” f
Various Voices
Prime Minister Macmillan:
“There’s the old picture of the
cake which is our national
wealth. There are some who are
most anxious to see that the cake
should be cut into slices of
absolutely equal size, however
thin. They don’t seem to bother
about-the size of the cake itself.
But . I don’t believe that’s what
our people want. Ample oppor-
tunity, not drab equality—that’s
what they want.”
President Eisenhower: “We
[the United States] seek peace,
knowing—as / all ages of man
have known—that peace is the
climate of freedom. And now,
as in no other age, we seek it
because we have been warned,
by thg power of modern
weapons, that peace may be the
only climate possible for human
life itself. Yet this peace we
seek cannot be born of fear
alone: it must be rooted in the
lives of nations.” ,
Lord Mancroft: “The United
Nations is in danger of becoming
a Brigands’ Benevolent Club.
The more outrageously a
member behaves the more
sweetly the committee smiles
qpon him. The temptation for
us to send in our resignation is
obvious. In the long run, how-
ever, it will be better to stay in
the club and do all tve can to
get the sillier rules revised.”
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes
your fancy write to the Manager,
who will quote you a price for
the original.


M
m
m
■
THE SAINT AND THE HIRONDEL-
Not so long ago Castrol Headquarters
received letters asking for mechanical
details of the sleek, fabulous Hirondel.
Regretfully we had to inform the writers
that the Hirondel (like its owner, the
Saint) exists only in Leslie Charteris'
exciting fiction.
i
However, the makers of Castrol receive
each year many hundreds of requests for
mechanical and lubrication information
on a wide range of vehicles. It's natural,
isn't it, for people to turn to experts for
expert advice.
The point is, of course, that when informa-
tion 4s wtnited about lubrication the
specialists are the logical people to ask.
It is equally logical that Castrol motor oil,
the product of specialists in lubrication,
1 is the best oil for your car.
Vtci&Cei/i&ec&
&€d-
• Trade Mark regialered internationally.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to —
NAME ,
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/18/6 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 96S Wellington, N.Z.)
CANADA-
Today and Tomorrow
/CANADA is the biggest white
Dominion in the British
Commonwealth. Australia comes
next. But while Australia’s
population is striving to reach
the 10-million mark, Canada has
now touched 16 million, and its
industry is progressing at a rate
never before seen in the
modern world. Government
and industry in Canada are on
their toes to see that this
industrial progress is maintained.
Big Growth Expected
A remarkable increase in
living standards and in the level
of per capita net disposable
income of Canadians over the
next 25 years was predicted in
the preliminary report of the
Royal Commission on Canada’s
Economic Prospects, made
public in Ottawa on January 10.
Forecasting Canada’s growth
during the next 25 years, the
commission estimated that:
# the Canadian population will
increase from 15,575,000 in
1955 to about 26,650,000 in
1980, assuming an average
net immigration of 75,000
persons a year ;
# the labor force will grow at
, about the same rate as the
population as a whole.
Average hours a week in
agriculture are expected to
decrease from 55.3 to 43.75,
and; in business, from 41.3 to
34.3 in 1980 ;
# the gross national product
may increase from $26,800
million in 1955 to about
$76,000 million in 1980 —i.e.,
by roughly three times. The
principal variables in this
estimate are the growth in
population and the increased
rate of ( productivity, particu-
larly for the business sector
of the economy. The forecast
for 1980 is an average of two
calculations based on
increases in productivity of
2.5 per cent, and 3.25 per
cent, a year for the business
sector and net immigration
annually of 75,000 persons;
© if'the forecast of the increase
in gross national product is
borne out by events, the
average Canadian in 1980,
after paying income-tax, will
probably have about -two-
thirds again as much income
in real terms for his own
use as he had in 1955 ;
© while the output of all sectors
of. the economy is expected
to increase, that of agricul-
ture may decline in relative
terms from about 13 p.c. of
the total in 1955 to about 6
p.c. in 1980. On the other
hand, the output of the
resource industries (particu-
larly mining, oil and gas, and
electric light and power) is
expected to increase from
about 10 p.c. of the total in
1955 to about 15 p.c. in 1980 ;
and the output of secondary
manufacturing is expected to
increase from about 22 p.c.
in 1955 to about 25 p.c. in
1980;
# the percentage of the total
labor force employed in
agriculture will decline from
about 15 p.c. in 1955 to about
7 p.c. in 1980. The resource
industries, primary and
' secondary manufacturing,
and construction, are expected
to employ roughly the same
proportion of the total labor
force in 1980 as they do
today,. The proportion of the
number of workers employed
in the tertiary or service
sectors of the economy is
expected to increase con-
siderably ;
© the trend under which
Canada has been becoming
an increasingly urban
country is expected to con-
tinue. In 1951, 62 p.c. of the
population lived in metro-
politan areas or in other
cities, towns and villages with
more than a thousand people.
By 1980 this proportion may
rise to 80 p.c.;
@ foreign trade will continue to
be an extremely important
determinant of growth and
prosperity of the Canadian
economy. But the perceptible
decline since the 1930’s in the
value of exports as a pro-
portion of gross national
expenditure is expected to
continue. Similarly, it is
expected that the share of
Canadian total exports going
to thd United States and of
its total imports which come
from that country will con-
tinue to increase.
The royal commission pointed
out that in making its forecasts
of future development it had
assumed that there will not be
a global nuclear war during the
next 25 years, that there will
not be another depression of the
kind experienced in the ’thirties
or prolonged periods of mass
unemployment, and that there
will be no major change in the
policies of the Government
which have a bearing on
economic development.
It pointed out that the realisa-
tion of Canada’s huge potential
will depend in large measure on
the maintenance of a flexible
market economy. But, if main-
tained, it will be equally
important for Governments to
continue to adapt their role in
economic affairs to changing
conditions and, in particular, to
accept the implications of the
effort to maintain a high level
of employment.
U.S. Intrusion
C. D. Howe, Canadian
Minister of Trade and
Commerce, has urged United
States business corporations to
treat branch plants in Canada as
thoroughly Canadian enterprises,
and to remind themselves more
often that Canada is a separate
nation, not a Sitate of the Union.
Speaking at a meeting of the
Canadian Club of Chicago, Mr.
Howe said that because of
Canada’s closeness to the U.S.A.,
and the similarity of institutions
and ways of life in the two
countries, Americans often
treated Canada, for business
purposes, almost as a part of the
United States. This, he said, has
its dangers if it led American
businessmen to treat branch
plants in Canada as if they were
located in the U.S.
Mr. Howe said that his views
on the operations of U.S.-
controlled plants in Canada
could be applied to other aspects
of economic relations between
the two countries.
“I believe,” said Mr. Howe,
“that those who are prepared to
share with Canadians Jn the
risks of developing our country
should be as free as Canadians
themselves in deciding how to
conduct their enterprise,
“Nevertheless, anyone who
does business in Canada should
reckon with the legitimate pride
of Canadians in their country. In
other words they should reckon
with the normal feelings of
nationalism, which is present
in Canada just as it is in the
U.S. Canadians do not like to
be excluded from an opportunity
of participating in the fortunes,
good or bad, of large-scale enter-
prise incorporated in Canada
but owned abroad. They may
not buy many shares, but they
resent the exclusion. They do
not like to see large-scale
Canadian enterprises entirely
dependent upon foreign parents
for their research and top
management. They do not like
to see the financial results of
large-scale Canadian enterprises
treated as if they were the
exclusive • concern of the foreign
owners.”
University Grant
In view of Australia’s recent
Federal moves in respect of uni-
versity finance, what Canada is
doing is interesting. s
Prime Minister L. S. St.
Laurent has told the National
Conference on Higher Educa-
tion that Cabinet is prepared to
recommend to Parliament that
annual Federal grants to uni-
versities, now provided on the
basis of 50 cents per capita per
province, be doubled, and that
the money be given to the
National Conference of
Canadian universities for alloca-
tion.
“It is now widely known,”
said Mr. St. Laurent, “that all
Canadian universities are going
through financial difficulties
which prevent their adequate
development. They need new
accommodation, and new
facilities very badly, and univer-
sity teachers are not adequately
paid for their most valuable
services. Moreover, our univer-
sities can rightly claim that they
render essential services to the
nation as a whole and to the
Canadian Government in
particular. As the Massey Com-
mission pointed out, the uni-
versities are now the recruiting-
grounds for a great number of
positions in the Federal civil
service and the commissioned
ranks of the armed forces
“In order to dissipate fears
and to make it abundantly clear
that we do not intend to tamper
with the freedom of any
individual institution, we are
proposing to hand over the
moneys voted by Parliament each
year for that purpose to the
National Conference of Cana-
dian Universities which would
divide it up and distribute it.
“In this way, the Federal
Government would have no con-
tact with any individual institu-
tion. We think that this system
will prove a sufficient guarantee
for all our universities, which
should be completely free from
any kind of interference. If the
N.C.C.U. decides to assume this
new responsibility, we will ask
for authority to enter into an
agreement with the conference
in order to carry out this
arrangement.”
University Body
The National Conference of
Canadian Universities was
founded in 1911 for “the promo-
tion of higher education in all its
forms in Canada.” There are 36
member-institutions.
In its early days, the sole func-
tion of the conference was
arranging an annual meeting at
which papers were delivered and
problems of higher education
discussed; but during World
War II the conference had to
assume responsibility of
negotiating with the Federal
Government on behalf of all its
members.
The conference is now gener-
ally recognised as the voice of
the universities and colleges.


For effective parasite
control capacities of
plunge dips should be
carefully checked. A
grazier who for a long
time had assumed that
his plunge dip held only
1,200 gallons recently
discovered that its
capacity was actually
2,500 gallons. Only
then did he realise that
the reason for un-
satisfactory dipping
over several years was
the fact that he had
been using half-strength.
It' is essential to avoid
hit-or-miss methods
when marking and tail-
ing with Elastrator
Rubber Rings.
Thousands of graziers
find that the ring
method eliminates set-
back and is a safe-
guard against fly-strike
and disease, but trouble
could follow the faulty
application of the ring.
It is imperative that the
instructions supplied
with the outfit be care-
fully followed.
WUNDERLICH SINKS
OliHWmel them all
'/////lIIWWVV .
pp
vs .m
The brilliant NEW range of Wunderlich
Stainless Steel Sinks combines every modern
improvement in sink design. Glistening
high-shine finish, inbuilt quick-drainage
falls in bowls and drainers, anti-spill
beading on all sides, and one-piece
practical size round cornered bowls. Avail-
able with timber backing for easy fixing
(jver new or old cupboarding or unbacked,
if required. See the NEW Wunderlich Sinks
at your hardware store, Phone MX 2411, or
write to Wunderlich Ltd., Box 474, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for illustrated price list.
The NEW
STAINLESS
STEEL
SINKS
6252
SEE
THEM AT YOURv HARDWARE STORE
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
"THE GOLDEN PINEAPPLE"
By JOHN ORRELL
TTO make the pineapple really
A golden in North Queensland
(B. 28 /11 / ’56), a modern
cannery in the area is necessary.
Cairns has already had a
cannery—a co-operative affair
which, as my bank-manager
remarked, “followed the litter of
bankrupted grower-co-operatives
which cluttered the State.” What-
ever its failings, the now-defunct
Great Northern Cannery did two
things: it fostered a new
industry in North Queensland
and* proved that pineapples of a
superior quality for canning
could he grown in the area
bounded by Daintree in the
north and Ingham in the south ;
and it proved that pineapples
could be canned to a quality-
standard which fitted them for
sale on the export-market.
After the passing of the
G.N.C., the Government was
asked to help. The Committee
of Direction of Fruit Marketing,
in co-operation with Government
authorities, undertook to process
the 1955-56 summer crop at
Cairns, growers being paid £l5
per ton at factory as first pay-
ment, and the balance on
realisation.
There was no realisation.
C.O.D. claims that obsolete
machinery, overtime, and other
unforeseen contingencies caused
a loss on the deal, and that a
total payment of £8 per ton
would have been nearer the
mark.
However, growers have
between £750,000 and £1,000,000
invested in the industry, and, a
series of talks, conferences, and
mass-meetings took place, the
ultimate result being that the
Government agreed to guarantee
half-a-million pounds for a
modern cannery to be built
by C.O.D. at Cairns.
This news brought hope to the
industry; new confidence, new
plantings. Then, in late Sep-
tember, an article in the local
press by the general-manager of
the CO.D. advised growers to
“explore the possibilities of the
fresh-fruit market” —presumably
in Brisbane, Newcastle and
Sydney.
This caused the first cold
breath of doubt, as all growers
were of the opinion that the
1956-57 summer-crop would be
processed in Cairns as cannery-
fruit. Doubt became, certainty
when the announcement was
made on October 6 that due to
“economic difficulties” the
Cairns cannery would not re-
open, and growers would have
to send their fruit to the southern
markets as “fresh,” or have it
processed at Northgate as
“cannery-fruit.”
Growers with fruit ready for
consignment in early November
found a ready market for their
produce in Sydney and New-
castle, at prices of 80s., and
higher. This would give the
growers a net of 505., and looks
good on paper.
But northern growers have
been geared for cannery-
production from the beginning
of their industry. Cases are a
heavy responsibility, and it's-my
opinion that if the C.O.D.
hadn’t helped northern growers
with credit for 10,000 cases,, very
little fruit would have reached
the southern market.
By the end of December the
honeymoon was over. Brisbane
was showing 2.65. to 50s. a
case (and it costs about 265. to
market a case in Brisbane) and
the Sydney market was on the
decline. I have a return for four
cases from Sydney which sold
at 50s. a case. After freight,
commission, other charges, and
the cost of cases under the “cases
on credit” scheme had been
deducted, the net cheque was
£4 12s. lOd. It cost £1 3s. 2|d.
per case to grow the pines,
provide the wool for packing,
cart the 10 miles to the rail, and
then “please add duty-stamp if
cheque is over £2.”
Remember —■ this was the
position when we could- get fruit
through. Anyone who knows
what a capricious stream the
Burdekin is will realise that it
was always on the cards that
the consignments mightn’t get
through.
Men like myself who are in
their fourth year at the game
can look back on the first 18
months of hard toil clearing land
and planting a crop with material
at £lO per 1000. The local
cannery was then paying £33 a
ton.
By the time the crop got to the
cannery, 18 months later, the
factory was broke, and what
amounted to a Government
hand-out of £l2 10s. a ton was
made. Last year the C.O.D.
processed at the Cairns Cannery,
and a payment of £l5 a ton
came through for first-grade
pines. This year we’ve either
risked the southern market or
railed to Northgate.
I have no available returns for
the Northgate cannery, but, even
with rail-concessions, it is
hardly a practicable proposition
to send fruit which has been
topped 1000 miles in open
crates for processing.
Fourth-year growers should
be bringing their plantings up
to the 80,000-mark this year.
Many of them are reducing to
10,000 to 15,000, or going out
altogether. Peter Middleton’s
excellent “Man on, the Land”
article notwithstanding, pines are
not a pleasant crop to handle
unless you have the capital to
do everything at exactly the
right time.
Spray at the correct time (just
after rain with the promise of a
dry day or two), fertilise at the
right time, hormone-and-fertilise
at the right time. And doing
everything at the right time
means having the cash or credit
available. Cultivation-costs for
pines are around £6O an acre.
Credit isn’t available. The
usual communication a pine-
apple-farmer gets from his bank-
manager these days is a request
to reduce his overdraft; or a
request, or summons, to come in
and explain. V
Somewhere along the line the
four-year man has had to leave
his farm and take outside work,
and on a one-man farm (most
pineapple-farms fall into this
category) that’s fatal. The weeds
crept ahead, the fertiliser wasn’t
put on, and many a four-year
man harvested this season’s crop
from a dirty farm.
Yet these are the men who
know most about the northern
pineapple - industry. They’ve
learned the hard way, and, given
the opportunity, could be of
value to the industry if only for
their hard-earned experience. But
80,000 pines mean at least £4OO
to work (£5OO would be nearer
the mark), and unless they
“cracked it lucky” on the early
Sydney market, they don’t have
the money.
Local conditions make a
cannery a necessity. Once the
first rains have fallen, the rate
of ripening is remarkable, and
daily picking is necessary. To
illustrate. Two weeks ago [from
“You’ll never rear ’ im!"
time of writing] I picked for
Brisbane, Sydney and Newcastle.
Without being technical, I
picked on color-change for
Sydney and Newcastle—that is,
when the first streak of yellow
was showing in the green base
of the pineapple.
Brisbane fruit was barely
showing color. Quarter-color
went to the local market, and
all over quarter was sold direct
to consumer on the roadside-
stall. The whole place was
picked clean on Saturday at
5 p.m. On Sunday at 6 p.m. I
got an order for a case “showing
color” to be delivered Monday.
/ picked three cases.
So, under our conditions,
daily pickings are a necessity,
and a Monday and Thursday
loading-programme leaves the
farmer with a surplus of fruit
on his hands which he can either
sell at give-away prices, or send
to the local market and cause the
inevitable glut.
What is the future of the
industry?
The position at present is that
the Government is willing to
guarantee half-a-million for the
C.OD. to erect a cannery.
C.O.D. does not believe that a
straight pineapple-cannery would
be a paying proposition, and
any right-thinking person agrees.
A £500,000 investment would be
lying idle for six months of the
year.
It has been suggested that
meat-canning could be combined
with fruit-canning (at different
times, of course), and thus keep
the plant running all the year.
This plan, apparently, has the
C.O.D. blessing. But with the
development of the Tinaroo
dam and irrigation-scheme an
outlet will have to be found for
produce from these farms. And
it won’t be the fresh-fruit and
vegetable market. There just
isn’t the population in North
Queensland to consume the
potential produce from these
properties.
The “non-paying-proposition”
angle was discussed at a meeting
between growers’ representatives,
cannery board of management,
the C.0.D., and Queensland
Minister for Agriculture H. H.
Collins on October 6 last.
The Minister, expressing himself
in favor of a cannery in the
North, said that in certain
business propositions a “calcu-
lated risk” had to be taken.
Under fire from the Opposi-
tion on October 24, Mr. Collins
said:
Cairns has been selected as the site
for the new cannery because pine-
apple-growing received such a great
impetus there after the war that it
is now the main centre of the
industry. l When three factories are
working, the C.O.D. will be handling
tropical fruit's from Cairns to
Brisbane.
MR. NICKLIN:. Unfortunately,
overseas prospects are not as bright as
they should be.
MR. COLLINS: They are not
overbright. But suppose we were
going to encourage many other
industries, could you say that the
overseas market was attractive? No.
Would that justify any Government
in refusing to assist growers or an
organisation to can something as
natural to the country as pineapples
and as tropical fruits are to Queens-
land?. . . We must take some notice
of the market nowadays, but if we
make too factual an examination we
will certainly never take the initial
steps to ensure that when the tide
turns, as it invariably does, the
industry will be profitable.
This statement seems to tie-
up with Mr. Collins’s mention
of “calculated risk” at his meet-
ing with growers on October 6.
. Since then there have been
rumors—any amount of them
—but no firm announcement that
a factory will be built. And if
definite news of a factory doesn’t
come soon, I predict that pine-
apple-growing, as a large-scale
proposition, will die within the
year.
A few big growers with the
necessary capital will grow for
the early southern market, off-
load their surplus to the local
fresh-fruit market (and s*o cripple
it for the small grower), and
send what’s left to a southern
cannery. But for the 6-to-8-acre
man—the man who has sunk his
life’s savings and four years’ hard
work into the game—no cannery
means finish. 1
Cattle-tick
“Vega”: To add to “Agri-
cola’s” observations (B. 9/1 /’57):
while effective control-measures
in dealing with the cattle-tick are
both essential and practicable,
the ultimate aim must be com-
plete eradication.
The spread of cattle-tick has
been halted by the establish-
ment of buffer-areas and the
enforcement of regulations pre-
venting cattle from being moved
from infested to clean areas.
Constant strategic dipping of
stock in the buffer-areas is
slowly eliminating the pest
there, with the long-range objec-
tive of contracting these areas
until the tick is forced-out
completely.
The process-is slowed by the
fact that the cattle-tick can live
on other domestic animals and
marsupials, although it does not
reach maturity or reproduce on
these hosts. For this reason an
area cannot be considered clean
until no ticks have been found
in it for at least a year.
Even then the risk is great, as
there are often a few stray cattle
that can seldom be mustered and
dipped ; though these scrubbers
are usually found and shot
eventually.
Eradication would be easier if
we didn’t have to contend with
tick-fever, carried and trans-
mitted by the cattle-tick. Cattle
maintain a high degree of
immunity only through constant
contact with fever-carrying ticks,
and they soon lose this immunity
when tick-free.
Therefore, no cattleman dare
allow his stock to become com-
pletely free of ticks, as an out-
break of tick-fever would be
inevitable when, sooner or later,
a few ticks came in through the
fence or were dropped from
travelling stock.
After a lifetime of fighting the
pest and the tick-fever it carries,
I find best results are obtained
by controlling the ticks on my
stock to the point where infesta-
tion is very light, but always
present.
But, from a national point of
view, eradication is the only
o Continued on next page )


* Phenovis' Brand of Phenothiazine
IT
JL
w ' T# .v -
a
|§§:. .' ■
•.# V‘ i
f. Coarse particles 4
in old Phenothiazine
Still the
finest
particle
size /
, 2. Extremely fine
particles in 'Phenovis'
* a • .*
PROVED by microscope . . . proved by use
. . . proved by millions of healthier sheep!
Yes, the extremely fine particle size of
‘Phenovis’ is the answer to quicker, more
efficient, more effective drenching of sheep.
Keeps worm burden in sheep to an absolute
minimum —at a cost of only 1/3 a year per sheep!
‘Phenovis’ is effective because:
(0 It is made from extremely fine ground Phenothiazine.
(2) It effectively controls the major intestinal worms found in sheep.
(3) Worm free sheep produce 25% more wool than worm infested sheep.
(4) Helps sheep resist reinfestation.
(5) Helps keep pastures contamination free.
Insist upon the SUPERFINE quality
PHENOVIS
LIQUID OR POWDER
ORDER now from your Supplier
A DEPENDABLE ftHiM_ftL
IhpebTai chemical industries
ICI
OF 4USJftiLUA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
739.PHE.53X. 2690
solution. It can be done if
tackled on a national scale.
Other countries, notably the
U.S.A., have virtually wiped out
the pest. It may cost millions to
do it here, but it will cost many
more millions if we don’t.
New Ferguson
“F.”: Representatives of
banks, finance - houses, the
N.S.W r Department of Agri-
culture, and the press had a good
look at the new Ferguson 35 the
other day, at St. Ives, Sydney.
The grey-and-bronze machines,
petrol, diesel and kerosene,
standard and de luxe, were lined
up like Spits, warming-up ; were
put through their paces; and
around dark (the show started
early in the afternoon, with
appropriate refreshments) a few
spectators were still driving them
around.
Over the past 10 years no
major change has been made in
the Ferguson tractor. The new
machine has a number of new
features. Engine-power has been
increased by as much as 34 per
cent, in diesel and petrol models,
but the main changes are in the
hydraulic system, a variable-
drive power take-off which gives
a choice of ground-speed p.t.o.
or engine-speed p.t.0., a dual-
clutch which enables p.t.o. to
be operated while the tractor is
stopped, and a dual-range gear-
box which gives six forward and
two reverse gears; speeds
ranging from 0.3 m.p.h. to 14
m.p.h.
The new “quadramatic
control” is a bit complex to
explain, but simple enough to
operate. It’s a fingertip-control
device, acting through the
hydraulic system. There are two
levers ; the outer one, the draft-
lever is (with one exception) used
only to adjust depth of working.
The inner, operational, lever is
used for making all other adjust-
ments.
With the operational lever at
the top of its quadrant, the im-
plement on the linkage is raised.
Move the lever down, the imple-
ment is lowered. This can be
done slowly or quickly, accord-
ing to conditions. As the lever
moves down it passes through the
“position-control range,” which
controls the lowering of the
implement.
The “fast and slow response”
section of the quadrant controls
the reaction of the cultivating
implement to undulations. This
was thoroughly demonstrated* at
St. Ives.
Depth of working is varied by
means of the draft-lever on the
outer quadrant. Once set at the
right depth, the finger-grip <?f
the small adjustable sector of
this quadrant is moved so that
it is in line with the lever-setting,
and locked there by a knurled
nut. The draft-lever can then
only be moved to allow for
variation of depth.
It is impossible to move this
lever right back to the top posi-
tion to lift the tool out of work.*
This is important, because the
implement shouldn’t be raised by
this lever.
One exception to the use of
the draft-lever, other than for-
controlling depth of working, is
when the tractor is fitted with a
loader using external hydraulic
jacks. Then the operation-lever
is kept either at the fast or slow
•
response (for fast or slow lower-
ing of the beams), and the imple-
ment is raised by the draft-lever.
When the loader is at its full
height, it’s kept ‘there by a
separate stop-valve, and the,
draft-lever is moved forward to
the lowering position.
Young Ewes
“Gunamalary”: With the big
improvement in carrying-
capacity of Australian pastures
during the last few years, the
tendency to mate ewes much
younger than usual has increased
in many flocks.
But a C.5.1.R.0. experiment
indicates that seven-month ewes
are too young to be mated
successfully. Only three of a
group of 40 ewes of this age
lambed, whereas 35 out of 40
ewes mated between 19 and 31
months had lambs.
As young ewes have short
heat-periods, during which they
are served much less often than
older ewes which compete with
them for the ram, it is vital to
mate young ewes in small flocks
of similar age.
It is wise to mob them up to
the rams for at least 10 minutes
a day, and also for a night or
two each week ; to run them in
small paddocks with a higher
percentage of rams than usual;
and to watch them carefully at
lambing-time, especially if they
have been mated to a big-headed
breed such as the Dorset Horn.
Although some owners fear
physical harm to young ewes
which are mated too early, it
seems that those with a live-
weight of 1501 b. or more don’t
suffer.
Algae
“Tatiara”: Algae killed sheep
in the Rarmera district on the
South Australian Murray, and
other deaths from the same
cause have been reported in the
U.S.A., Canada, and South
Africa.
Algse are about the lowest
form of life. Put a few algse in
stagnant water in the
sunlight, and they multiply
quickly to form a blue-green
scum: that’s what poisons sheep.
Algae are always present, but
only increase to dangerous
proportions under special condi-
tions, such' as those during the
recent floods,,when heavy con-
centrations were banked-up by
the wind on the shorelines of
rivers, lakes and darns.
Best thing to do is to keep a
watch for the blue-green scum,
and keep sheep away from it
until the alga have been
dispersed.
Pinnacle Year
“Wyche”: After being
replaced by more-modern
varieties of wheat for
several years, Pinnacle came
back into its own last harvest
when it won 'Victoria's four
major ‘wheat - championships,
including the northern Wimmera
contest with a record 62.6 bushels
an acre —5 b.p.a. better than
the previous best.
The main reason for this
success was that Pinnacle likes
those rare seasons which continue
late into a long slow ripening
period, when the grains get
plenty of time to fill. Earlier
varieties, such as Insignia,
cannot take such advantage of
late conditions so well.
Pinnacle’s habit of growth is
particularly suited to the black,
self-mulching soils of the
southern Wimmera; they hold
effective moisture longer than
the reds, which harden more
quickly.
Although discouraged by
.South Australians, Pinnacle won
the Bordertown competition.
When, at the height of its
popularity during the 1940’s
Pinnacle raised the quality
greatly from what it was when
Ghurka and Pindar (Pinnacle’s
“ancestors”) were supreme.
However, Olympic is now the
premier later - than - Insignia
wheat for quality.
Despite Pinnacle’s 1956 suc-
cesses, wheatgrowers would be
foolish to discard the varieties
recommended for their districts.
This year could be dfy, and
finish early.
Skeleton-weed in
Queensland
“Agricola”: This weed, which
once threatened to wipe-out the
N. S. Wales wheat-crop, has
come to Queensland —it has
been found at Kingaroy,
Toowoomba and Warwick.
Although the areas of weed
are very small so far, there is
cause for alarm, as the plant is
deep-rooted and defies cultiva-
tion. The weed has a yellow
'flower and flat, rosette leaves.
These wither and fall off, leaving
a skeleton-like plant with a
milky sap.
The seed can be carried long
distances by the wind. Like
thistle-seeds, they are fitted with
a downy parachute which
enables theta to float in the air.
The weed is hard to kill.
Ordinary cultivation doesn’t
harm it to any extent; hormones
such as 2,4-D will control it up
to a point, but it’s an expensive
job.
As the weed hasn’t got a hold
in Queensland yet, farmers have
been advised to keep a weather-
eye cocked for it. Dig it out the
minute it turns up. It’s the only
sure way to get rid of it.
Grain and Roughage
“Chandos”: C. S. I. R. 0.
experiments, as well as those
by State Departments, have
shown the sheep’s remarkable
adaptability to grain and
roughage as drought-fodders. In
one C.5.1.R.0. experiment it was
found that sheep could be fed
satisfactorily during a dry period
on lower grain-rations than had
been thought possible, provided
care was taken to bring the
animals' on to the rations
gradually.
On the other hand, it was
shown that sornp threequarters
of a flock could* keep alive for
at least 195 days on a mixture
of chaffed cereal-straw and
wheat-chaff, which was a very
low-quality roughage.
Sheep which received only an
additional 4oz. a day of mixed
lucerne-chaff, linseed - meal,
wheat, molasses, cobaltised-salt
plus vitamin-A, produced lib.
to more wool than the first
group, and had less than 3 per
cent, of deaths.
In another experiment, sheep
which received 3£ per cent,
protein-roughage survived better,
produced more wool, and lost
less weight than those on 2.4
per cent, protein-roughage.
As a supplement, linseed-meal
was better than lucerne-chaff, a
concentrate-mixture, and wheat
plus urea and sulphur.
The groups which received
lucerne-chaff or the mixture
maintained their normal plasma
vitamin-A level throughout the
experiment. Under the condi-
tions, a single, massive, vitamin-
A dose was enough for about six
months.
Farm Hints
“Big Billy”: Good results
from irrigating apple-trees, to
supplement natural rainfall, in
the Adelaide Hills district. At
the Blackwood test-orchard,
watering during the summer had
stepped-up crop-yields by 40 per
cent, and fruit-size by a quarter-
of-an-inch. A single irrigation
in mid-February gave an average
yield-increase of 17 per cent,,
while three irrigations from mid-
December to the end of Feb-
ruary gave an increase of 30
per cent. Late December is
regarded as an ideal time to
irrigate in drier districts.
“Bill C”: In districts subject
to waterlogging at any season,
set seedlings of passions or
granadillas beside their trellises
in old tin tubs or bitumen pots
well-filled with rich soil. Have
good-sized holes in the tins to
let the roots grow down into the
soil. The butts of the vines are
kept out of the water in the wet
season, and rotting is prevented.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(3/2/’57)
What can be expected in March:
In Queensland* general rains throughout the State;
these could lead to widespread flooding, particularly on the
North Coast, and in the central-west and south-west.
In N.S.W., good general rains, heaviest on the North
Coast.
In Victoria, reasonably good rains, although the
Wimjnera, western districts and Gippsland may be confined
to light to moderate rain.
In South Australia, general rains, heaviest in the upper
north, light in the south-east and west coast.
In W.A., heavy falls in the Kimberleys and north-west,
with good falls in the West Gascoyne and on the south
coast. Balance of the State, poor.
LENNOX WALKER.


NOW., it’s here! the NEW
fekfudoti.
35
MORE POWERFUL • MORE VERSATILE
>vT
V
m
m
M
i
•'it
i
i
M
Never before a tractor with ail the features you need!
NEW
NEW Hydraulic control! Raise and lower
implements... select and maintain uniform depth ...
adjust hydraulic system’s speed of Response . . . hold
implements rigidly in any position . . . all without
moving your hand cix inches!
NEW
NEW Two Power-take-offs in one—-a Live P.T.O
and a Ground Speed P.T.O. Simple P.T.O. change
lever selects either P.T.O. drive direct from the
engine, or P.T.O. drive from the rear axle. Have
the P.T.O. shaft revolving at speeds proportional
to engine speed, or proportional to ground covered.
NEW
NEW Great diesel engine —37 brake horsepower!
A high-torque, high-compression, higher horsepower
engine —gives you power and power in reserve
whenever you want it!
NEW
NEW Gear Box! Six forward speeds and two
reverse —a gear and a speed for every job on the
farm. “Creep” as slow as *3 m.p.h. —or speed up
to 14 m.p.h. v for fast jobs!
NEW
NEW “Two-way” depth control! Controls
implement’s depth whether top link is in compression
or tension gives an accuracy in work never known
before!
NEW
NEW Constant overload release! Operates at
predetermined overload whether using heavy or
Jight tillage implements gives perfect operation
in work and protection to implements.
NEW
NEW Safety, comfort and convenience features!
include new brake shoes; new, more comfortable
seat and footrests; new, removable radiator grille;
new instruments; new servicing panel; new, larger
fuel-tank; new dual clutch; new safety single-switch
starter; new anti-kick, steering; new heavy duty
front axle mounting; new robust rear axle with
transmission-overload safety feature.
NEW
NEW Independent brake pedals! Both worked by
right foot, leave left foot free to operate dual clutch.
With all these vital advantages, the Ferguson 35 gives you what you NEED from a tractor, GREATER
OUTPUT—IN LESS MAN HOURS.
00 YEARS AHEAD
t
Ask for a Demonstration and book your order NOW for EARLY DELIVERY
Distributors for Queensland, Northern Rivers of N.S.W. and Northern Territory
BRITISH TRACTOR & IMPLEMENTS PTY. LTD.
156- 1 58 SYDNEY STREET, NEW FARM, BRISBANE


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Papua-New Guinea
“’Ermit” (B. 2/l/’57) advances several
reasonable suggestions regarding the
evolution of Papua-New Guinea natives,
but the target of almost every sovereign
country in this age is a subtle infiltration
of its own ideologies in the hope that the
particular backward race it is nursing
will remain loyal to the nurse
after attaining its own national
independence.
Even as Australia is endeavoring to
inoculate the N.G. natives with the serum
of democracy, race-equality and (hope-
fully) a sense of gratitude, other nations
with opposite ideologies have their
propagandists ready to spring into action
to recruit these unsophisticated people
into the fold of Communism.
The many millions of pounds voted
annually for P.-N.G. out of the Aus-
tralian taxpayers’ pocket would not be
so willingly allocated by our Canberra
legislators if there Were no opposing
ideology. The sad part of this largesse,
of course, is the fact that it is not so much
the native, as an individual, who derives
the benefit of these annual grants as the
ever-increasing numbers of the public
service who, in their five-day week,
supervise the inoculation of Western
civilisation. ,
The unification of the tribes of New
Guinea into a compact nation —which is
the declared goaT of the present
Administration —appears to be an almost
insuperable task. Recent events in-
Indonesia give some idea, of the
difficulties of eradicating tribal jealousies
am) antipathies in an endeavor to create
a unified nation.
How much greater will the problem be
in N.G., where the native is far more
primitive? It takes -little imagination to
foresee the sophisticated Tolai group in
the Rabaul' area assuming control and
Showing littie sympathy for the Highland
of Sepik tribes over on the mainland,
with a strong contestant for the ruling
power in the Manus Islanders—a particu-
larly virile arid sophisticated people—
while the Buka and Bougainville folk —•
born isolationists, inclined to be dour and
surly—would be the last to co-operate
with a central Government situated any-
where outside their own district.
Current history teaches us that most of
the world’s dissension stems from the
establishment of strong political bodies
governing minorities with little or no
voice in their affairs. This mistake could
be avoided in N.G. by the creation of the
Federated States of New Guinea, with
State autonomy, plus the benevolent
protection of Australia. A political
system of this type might safely be
attempted in about 1977, but in the mean-
time the native people should learn to
become more self-supporting and realise
the necessity for standing on their own
feet, unaided by Over-generous grants and
subsidies from Australia. Such present
generosity gives them an entirely false
impression of civilised economy and a
false standard of living.
It is impracticable for a Stone Age
native to accustom himself to the atomic
age within a couple of generations, which
is what is being attempted in P.-N.G. at
the moment by an impatient Government
policy and over-zealous missionaries, with
their 20-odd religious doctrines each
competing with t’ other.
On the other hand, bearing in mind the
chaotic state of our own civilisation at
the moment, one might reasonably ask:
Are we justified in foisting our
political, economic and social methods
upon a people who, in the past, have
enjoyed a carefree, simple, uninhibited
existence, blissfully ignorant of the
restrictions and complexities of modern
civilisation?— Gelt (N.S.W.).
Tasmania
There is plenty of tourist-money about,
both here and abroad, but Tasmania,
reputedly the holiday State of Australia,
lets tourists organise themselves.
Tasmania is probably the oldest island
in the world, with a people who have a
zest for living and kindliness that cannot
be described. The Great Lake has been
described as the world’s best-stocked
trout-lake.
I flew to Launceston to rest and
unwind. After two days of • wandering
amid history I took longer walks. But
the urge to explore. I wanted a
map of the country. Newsagents had
sold out. This was at the height of the
holiday season.
I had some idea of fishing and relaxing.
I had not brought trout-gear and wanted
to tarry at the Great Lake and hire rod
and line. In Kashmir and other parts
those things were automatic. We hurried
through by bus. The chalet was full,
there were no boats for hire and no
fishing-gear.
Yet here, at 3500 ft., in a unique
country, were thd oldest trees in the world,
a lake 65 miles wide well stocked with
trout, and a geologist’s dream. Most of
the rock strata were vertical.
It was not only a geologist’s dream. It
must have been right in the lap of the
engineers. Steep valleys, almost sheer,
coursed lake-water down in broad pipes
to turbines to provide Hobart with power
and light.
Here was a story to be told. But you
had to find it out for yourself.
I had suggested to the tourist-bureau
in Launceston that we stop here and
there for relaxation and rest, but they
made it clear that we could not stop
ert route without a prior booking.
So we passed the Great Lake, one of
the loveliest and most restful parts of the
world.
Here, when the moths come down, is a
world phenomenon. Trout in millions
leap for them in wadeable water, but
unless you possess a hut or have a priority
on a camping-space near by, you just
drive past.
We had lunch at the Miena pub. It
would have been nice to stay there —just
below was a lake where the water takes-
off; it was still and calm with men in
waders playing trout. But the pub was
booked-out.
So here you have a lovely country,
ideal fishing, restfulness and relaxation.
But you have to organise all that for
yourself months ahead.—s G.R. (Vic.).
India and Australia
The people of Dubbo, Blackall, the
Alice and a few more places out west
have been rather taken aback by a Delhi
journalist—on a goodwill tour organised
by our Wool Bureau —who has been
“Angus! Take your elbows of the table , ye shameless gawk!"
knocking our policy of selected
immigration.
Mr. R. Sriman has had everything his
own way, as few of the Aussies he met
had ready answers to his criticisms. It
is father a pity more Australians have
not learnt more history and gebgraphy —
the Russian and Indian propagandists
have done so, particularly the bits most
suitable to their purposes.
India had its chance to occupy Aus-
tralia—as did Arabia, Indonesia, China
and Japan—hundreds of years before
Cook ever sighted our land. Arab dhows,
Coromandel outriggers and Chinese
“It's that little so-and-so next door—broken through at last!"
junks had been all through the Indonesian
islands long before any Europeans
(Marco Polo excepted) ever saw them.
Probably many landed in northern Aus-
tralia and gave it best.
When British, French and Dutch first
arrived in South-east Asia they found
a mess of warring petty States where
master-classes battened on a semi-slave
people. They were compelled to pacify
where they set-up their trade posts, or
quit. Eventually they took control and
made a good thing out of it, but they
gave South-east Asia peace, roads, rail-
ways, dams and ditches, and the benefits
of medicine and many other things of
inestimable value.
Now they have moved, or are moving,
out. Where they found turmoil, they
have left educated and organised
independent States. They have done well
by South-east Asia, and Asians should
be content to continue the good work
and not covet territories to which they
have no claim, moral or historical of
otherwise.
The British effectively discovered
Australia, occupied and tamed its near-
empty lands and built our present pros-
perous nation. Now many South-east
Asians are jealous and would like to
move in. India has absorbed many
invading peoples, but there is no evidence
of Indians being absorbed by any other
nation —witness East Africa, Fiji and
Malaya. Mixed peoples mean mixed
politics and trouble.
South-east Asia generally should
realise that Australia is simply playing
for national security as we see it. We
will pay attention to bona fide U.N.
criticism of our treatment of our
aborigines, Australian or Papuan, but
anything else from outside we must
regard as unwarranted interference with
our domestic affairs. —X. N. O. (Q.).
Publishing Costs
The cost of publishing books has
risen so high that people in the trade are
looking around for anything that will
bring it down. One of the biggest
items is the fitting of a book into
stiff covers, or “casing” as it is
known in the irade. Most of this
is done by hand, and, wages being
what they are now, it bumps up the
cost considerably.
Even a small reduction in the
initial cost of producing a book
means a great deal. A printer
charges, say, 6s. for the book as
it reaches* the publisher. The latter
has to add a shilling a copy as
the author’s royalty and another
shilling for the cost of distribution.
This leaves him 4s. out of the 12s.
at which it will be sold wholesale.
From that four shillings per copy
he has to pay all the costs
connected with running his busi-
ness, including advertising, over-
head, rent, wages and salaries, as well
as shouldering the risk of finding that
some particular book is a flop. No
wonder Sir Stanley Unwin said, “Anyone
can start in business as a publisher. The
trouble is to stay in the business!”
The retailer adds 50 per cent, to the
wholesale price for his gross profit and
so we have a book which sells over the
counter at 18s.
It would be a great help if all books
could be sold in limp paper covers, as is
done now with cheap productions such as
Penguins. But these won’t stand up to
hard wear and, in any case, libraries and
the people who buy books as gifts demand
something better.
With all the progress now being made
with plastics, it should be possible to
devise some form of stiff cover which is
cheap to make, easy to put around the
book and bound firmly in place, and
which is also handsome and hard-wearing.
Amateur inventors are warned that
publishers are now busy on this problem,
but the book-binding trade is very hide-
bound and there are many instances on
record where a newcomer, by viewing a
thing from a fresh angle, has solved
something. which had baffled all the
experts.
Nothing would so reduce the retail
price of books as a cheap, durable and
handsome cover which would also do
away with the need for the expensive
and useless dustjacket.—H. A. Lindsay
(S.A.).
Green Belts
Melbourne’s amended Master Plan,
which provides, among other things, for
a “green belt” of agriculture and parks
around the metropolis, will soon come
before the Victorian Government for
approval. It’s to be hoped it won’t be
shelved, for the longer this sort of thing
is deferred the more it costs the com-
munity ; and sooner or later the State
must call a halt to the outer-suburban
sprawl.
Within recent memory of its citizens,
Melbourne has engulfed much valuable
market-garden land —now covered with
houses and unmade streets —driving the
market-gardeners further afield and
increasing the cost of their produce. It
also lost areas which should have
been preserved, in part at least, as parks
and recreation areas —the unique heath-
lands of Sandringham and Beaumaris,
for example, once noted for their variety
of native flora, have virtually disappeared.
It costs money to establish and pre-
serve a green belt around a city. The
London County Council has announced
that it has spent close on £1 million in
contributions to local authorities for
safeguarding green-belt open space since
their scheme was launched in 1935. But
the return, in terms of benefits to the
community, is incalculable —agricultural
lands have been preserved for their exist-
ing uses, and recreational facilities and
parks have been provided in areas which
would otherwise have been snapped-up
for residential and industrial purposes.
The Victorian Government now has
the opportunity to safeguard a similar
green belt around Melbourne for the
benefit of its present and future citizens.
It will be much more expensive, even two
or three years hence, to give the metro-
polis its much-needed breathing-space.
—Doynest (Vic.).


The “Australaise”
Alec Chisholm’s comments (B.
16/l/’57) on C. J. Dennis’s “Australaise”
are astray in one minor direction. Den
did not issue the revised and added-to
leaflet that came out in 1915.
Den wrote the extra verses that gave
it a war-time topicality, but it was Garry
Roberts who had thousands of the leaflets
printed and distributed to the men of the
A.I.F. I know, because I have a copy—
and it was Garry Roberts who gave it
to me.
And it was Garry Roberts’s drive and
encouragement that helped Den to write
much of his Sentimental Bloke; Garry
used to show us with pride the converted
old Melbourne bus (or was it a tram?)
which he placed at Den’s disposal at
Kallista as a study, complete with
telephone-switchboard on which he could
plug-in to the Muses for inspiration.
Garry, of course, used to be manager
a? the Melbourne Tramways.— Denfan
(N.S.W.).
Exploring the Upper Atmosphere
The Geophysical Year should see
much achievement in probing the upper
limits of the earth’s atmosphere, but the
particular research-programme planned
should have been implemented 10 years
ago.
After Hitler’s V 2 it only required a
few rocket enthusiasts to persuade their
respective Governments that future
aggression with enemy-annihilation was
simply a matter of pushing a button or
throwing a switch 10,000 miles .from a
target. The centre-line of one range was
found to be on a bearing which passed
through the middle of Moscow. It was,
of course, quite accidental.
The discovery was a matter of early
jubilation. The peace of the world was
considered assured.
After 10 years and the expenditure of
millions not one country has a reliable
long-range guided weapon. A stray
shortwave impulse transmitted by an
amateur radio-operator has been known
to upset the course of a radio-controlled
missile.
Since the turn of the century the
torpedo has been a winner of wars. This
reliable instrument of destruction was
evolved, first, on a complete knowledge
of the element in which it travels. Second,
its manufacture from the primary
metallurgy to the final assembly is subject
to the most meticulous precision, control
and inspection.
Stored for one year or five years the
torpedo will speed from its tube or from
the belly of an aircraft, enter its element
and do its job. Its built-in control-
mechanism cannot be disturbed by
external influence. Should it miss the
target by human error its run is precisely
determined. Negative buoyancy sinks it
to the bottom of the sea—a safety-
covenant to which all nations subscribe.
Now, after 10 years of slapping aerial
missiles together, watching their wobbly
and spiralling take-offs on unpredictable
flights, their particular element and the
vagrant factors operating in it are to be
investigated.
The concentration of effort in this field
of research will, no doubt, produce a
rich store of knowledge for stratospheric-
weapon development.
What do we do while we wait for the
collation and study of this information?
The days are critical and we must be
prepared for recurring crises.
It would pay to cut out rocket-range
expenditure for a time and concentrate on
the supply of orthodox and proven
weapons.
I would still back the hitting-power of
the strato-jet bomber and the submarine
with its torpedoes against any unmanned
weapon yet conceived.
If both carried atom-bomb warheads
the devastation would be overwhelming
and conclusive. — Old Opencut (S.A.).
The Coal Industry
On the top shelf of a cupboard in my
kitchen are two well-used hurricane-
lanterns, still half-full of kerosene, and
a kero, stove. They are relics of the days
when the coalminers had us in a vice-like
grip and were applying a none-too-gentle
squeeze for good measure. Now, as
“Shellback” records (B. 30/1/’57), we
appear to be witnessing a great industry
and great potential, withering away.
The miners’ former power has also
shrunk to such minute proportions that it
no longer constitutes a significant factor.
In the hurricane-lantern days, the large
building in which I work was allegedly
“More like a cow to me, Mawther."
heated by two coke-burning boilers,
which necessitated a full-time attendant.
Often enough, however, we had no coke
to burn, because of some strike on the
coalfields. Eventually, something was
done about this and our large coke-
storage compartment now contains a
fuel-oil tank. The attendant’s place has
been taken by an array of automatic
pumps, switches and thermo-control gear.
This pattern was repeated thousands of
times all over N. S. Wales, and is the
basic reason for the present position. In
jhoi t, events that happened on the coal-
fields years ago have resulted in the decay
ot the industry. The lessons of happen-
in other parts of the world were
there for the taking, but labor—and
management, too —chose to ignore them
—Kemberry (A.C.T.).
Without forthright answers forthcom-
ing to many questions, we can be
pardoned for having the idea that coal is
being murdered to teach someone a
lesson. We know that mining coal is a
specialist s job and neither easy nor very
pleasant;'we know also that there are
good miners as well as bad and that the
same goes for owners. We also know
only too well that we have been let
down time and time again by those who
won our coal for us.
We also have authorities telling us that
modern coal-burning equipment has the
efficiency of diesel.
What then is it all about, this deliberate
expenditure on oil? Is the death of this
great industry the result of unbiased
scientific research giving a well-advised
“cease operations,” or is it the result of
spite and the revenge of collective
industry resolved to toss the coal boys for
good and all?
If the latter, beware of handing the
right to ransom Australia to the oil-boys.
One can feel, even at this juncture, the
threat: “One penny a gallon rise or else! ”
Apparently we must leave our heritage
of power below ground because of
human blunderings and bickerings. * Or is
the coal-era really over?— Spenton
(N.S.W.).
The writing has been on the wall for
a long time now—ever since Victoria and
S.A., completely fed-up with interruptions
to the supply of N.S.W. coal and the
unreliability of supplies received, com-
menced large-scale projects for the
development of their own fuel-resources.
That, and the entry of oil-refineries, with
cheap residual oils for industrial pur-
poses, into the fuel-market should have
put an end to the notion that black coal
was, and would remain, the dominant
fuel.
But even now the miners’ leaders show
little appreciation of the real situation
that confronts the black-coal industry.
Their remedies for the depression in the
industry are the levying of excise duty on
imported fuels and the prohibition of
further conversions of industry to oil
“until the coal industry is stabilised.”
■ V lere a Pl ace 9 and an essential one,
m the Australian economy, for the black-
coal industry, but it won’t be found by
trying to stifle the expanding use of other
fuels, or by directing industries as to
what fuels they may or may not use.
The obvious course is for all concerned
in the black-coal industry to recognise
that their fuel monopoly is gone for ever,
that the very existence of the industry
depends upon competing with other fuels,
and that the sooner all hands —including
the miners—get down to the job in
earnest the better for everyone.—
Wusslean (Vic.).
The British Migrant
After a good deal of experience I am
losing faith in the United Kingdom
migrant.
Few of them have any pioneering
spirit these days. They do not come to
Australia prepared to carve out a home
and living as their forefathers did —and,
admitted, we can hardly expect them to
suffer the privations of the early settlers.
But the present-day type does little
except moan about the comforts they
have left behind and make everlasting
comparisons between the amenities of
each country. They deprecate the value
of things Australian, whether grown or
manufactured, and rarely seem to fit
themselves into the local landscape.
After a few months many go back.
Even those who stay and get good jobs
and make quite a lot of money continue
to remind us of what they sacrificed when
they left “home.” Many of them, after
making a few thousand to spare, take all
the cash permitted on a trip to the “Old
Country,” leaving Australia that much
poorer in cash each time.
We will never people our empty spaces
with migrants from the U.K. We must
look to our own young adventurers or
the good German stock—like many Aus-
tralians, they still have the pioneering
spirit.— Ray d’O. (N.S.W.).
Petrol Frenzy
I can only draw one conclusion from
the existing turmoil and general frenzied
finance in the petrol business: that
there is little or no difference
between competing brands of either
petrol or, in many cases, oils. The fan-
tastic sums spent on promotion, in the
form of advertising and putting up sales-
outlets as fast as they can be built, the
constant blare of trumpets—“ Buy our
brand! ” —all point relentlessly to this
conclusion.
Without any advertising at all other
than word of mouth and an odd outlet
here and there, a petrol which actually
did what half the claims say it can would
wipe the field. If one country centre here
in W.A., for instance, had one pump which
sold a completely unknown brand of gas
which infallibly gave any car twice its
present mileage motorists would flock to
it from miles around, and if drums were
available semi-trailers would be backing
in 24 hours a day from all over the State.
ft follows that no such miraculous
difference is possible and that the only
way to keep in business is to shout louder
than the other fellow.
Oil-company executives must writhe
with rage, when accusations of heavy
spending on sales-promotion are made,
because this has become an inescapable
item of marketing costs, thus loading the
price to the consumer in an unnecessary
and illogical manner. One may as well
advertise different brands of water and
stack on a few pence per gallon purely
for the expense involved in telling people
to buy what they would buy anyway.
The whole set-up wants sorting out
and bringing back to earth, so that prices
can reflect true costs. —R. H. G. (W.A.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 421
Across
l—Making a mess of fish which
won t work. (8)
s—Where Portuguese Indians might
drive off a beard. (6)
9 Confirmed the rodent poem by
Kipling that is 500. (8)
10—Its turn with the general manager
takes a stain. (6)
12— Lies within an inch. (4)
13— Mocked the wife of Uncle Ted
in the surroundings. (7)
16 Making the horses race again.
(9)
17— Socks a Biblical prophet. (5)
18— They wait for batsmen to make
them. (5)
20—Great conductor suggests an
opera heroine backed in a couple
of times. (9)
22 Oriental city to henpeck a story-
writer named H. H. Munro. (8)
24—Obscure leaf pest. (4)
County of translations. (5)
' Factory equipment to increase
the years of the vegetable
kingdom. (8)
28- Brutes disguised Keaton who
breaks a southerly wind. (6)
29 This makes the foreman love
poetry by the Queen bowling to
a prophet. (8)
Down
1— Town figure getting out of bed
and breaking in to steal. (12)
2 Trimmer row with Gould. (7)
3 Divers breathe through these 51
, cats. (9)
4 Requirement. (4)
6—Ox described first by its initial
and then by the rest of grain.
7 ca t to touch about a steamer.
(7)
8 Perhaps a daddy of a cheese:
certainly a careless he-mother!
(4)
11 Big steamer liberality. (7)
t 4 >Ocubed is to pinch an error.
15 —Abo to carry a koala. (6, 4)
17—Important steamer is after the
principal. (9)
19—French artist’s way in. (7)
21—A married woman might claim
this office of a Moslem prayer-
reader. (7)
2.1 Used bad language; and is now
using worse! (5)
25 European Valentine is on the way
up. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 420


YEARS GUARANTEE
and here's WHY!
This Revolutionary
CENTURY
Home Lighting Battery
has these new and exclusive
features
CLEAR POLYSTYRENE CONTAINER
You can see the acid level at a glance.
2
GRAVITY INDICATORS
State of charge visible at all times. No need for
hydrometer*
as
m
.
c
m
1
m
w
E
SiLVIUM
The magical new additive giving longer plate life and
increased efficiency.
4
GLASS INSULATION—
ensures longer life and GREATER POWER.
Ask your garage, electrical
dealer or stock and station
agent —or write direct to the
manufacturers
CENTURY'S NEW Glass Insulated with SSLVIUM
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY. Type CPG 227.
rrrrrn
a
(j
j
These inbuilt visual ball indicators show clearly
and instantly the state of charge of the battery
at all times.
I
GUxSS Urv-S ixXoX&xi,
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY
m SILVIUM
A
Made by
CENTURY
STORAGE
BATTERY
CO. LTD..
Alexandria, N.S.W.
CENTURY BATTERIES FOR CARS. TRUCKS, TRACTORS, EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT, MOTOR CYCLES, RADIO,
HOME LIGHTING ARE DISTRIBUTED BY:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Century Storage Battery Co.
Ltd., Birmingham Street, Alexandria. Bradley
Bros. Ltd., 55-59 & 68-72 Wentworth Ave, Sydney.
Grimley Ltd., 247-253 Broadway, Sydney. Industrial
Sales & Service (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd., Parramatta Road,
Lidcombe. Motor* Traders Pty. Ltd., 70 Common-
wealth Street, Sydney.
LOWER RIVERINA: Motor Traders (Vic.) Pty. Ltd.,
5 1 5 Kiewa Street, Albury.
QUEENSLAND: P. H. Phillips Battery Supplies Pty.,
458 Brunswick Street, Brisbane. Plant & Plant
(Machinery) Pty. Ltd., 323-325 Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba. Samuel Allen & Sons Ltd., Townsville.
Wyper Bros. Ltd., Bundaberg. Advanx Tyre & Motor
Service, 61 Sheridan Street, Cairns. Lawrence Motor
Company, Bolsover Street, Rockhampton. Corser &
Co. Pty., Ellena Street, Maryborough. Gympie
Machinery & Electrical Coy., Mary Street, Gympie.
Jas. Croker & Sons, Mackay.
VICTORIA: Century Storage Battery Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Macaulay Road, North Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd.
(Sole Concessionaires), 15 Ackland Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Attwood Motors Pty. Ltd.,
22 Stirling Street. Perth.
TASMANIA: C. C. Boag Batteries, 86 Bathurst Street,
Hobart: 224 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
NORTH AUSTRALIA: Allen Bros. (Darwin) Pty.
Ltd., Darwin.
