

gdf
flat
ƒgfgd
'if
SOLERO
WEET OR DRY
s-'
The Bulletin
"To oma Tooma Tiger”— page 34
Wednesday, May 15, 1957
Price 1/-
T K E NATION A L A U ST R A L IAN NEWSPAPER
Registered' in Australia /or transmission by post as a newspaper.
DURHAM’S vast Norman cathedral is one of England’s greatest
architectural masterpieces, and its situation on a bluff high above
the River Wear is no less impressive than lire cathedral itself.
The first church to occupy the she was built in the year 999
by the monks from Lindislarne Island who* fleeing from the Viking
raiders, deposited at Durham the remains of St. Cuthbert, who had
died at Lindislarne in 687. The site of the church, according to
legend, was indicated by a dun-coloured cow. whose memory is
perpetuated in stone in the north transept of the' cathedral. When
the Normans arrived, (he original church was demolished and the
present magnificent cathedral built on its site. 'I he foundation stone
was laid in August, 1093, and building was completed forty years later,
Two hundred and twenty-nine years after it began its long journey
from the Island of Lindisfarne, the coffin of St, Cuthbert was placed,
behind the high altar where it can be seen today.
On entering the cathedral, visitors are at once impressed by
its immensity, by the loftiness of the nave and .by the Vast circum-
ference of the Norman columns. The pointed arches across the
nave are the first of their kind in English architectural history, and
the ribbed vaulting of the roof is the first example of its use in
England.
At the west end of the cathedral in the Galilee Chapel can
be seen the tomb of the Venerable Bede (673-735), the scholarly
divine who wrote the earliest surviving English history. Within the
chancel are the 17th-century choir stalls, and beyond can be seen
the great throne and tomb, illustrated here, built by Bishop Hatfield
(1345-81), who founded what is now, Trinity College, Oxford. The
Bishop’s throne is reputed to be the highest in Christendom and it
reflects the former power of the See of Durham*
No. 349: the Homelamd Series by the House of Seppelt.
THE BISHOP'S THRONE, DURHAM CATHEDRAL


WRITE SHORT STORIES,
ARTICLES, PARS,
AND EARN AT HOME.
There is an enormous demand for accept-
able MSS. It will pay you to study with
STOTT’S.
Read these extracts from Students’ Letters:
“During the past six months my Acceptances
have returned me over £200.”
“I am pleased to report further Successes
since Les. 10. This makes £53 in hand, with
more to come. 1 ’
“I list hereunder my Acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“Mv earnings from my Writing total almost
£70.”
“Since 1 started my Course, I have had
SIXTEEN Stories and Articles accepted, so you
see the Course has more than PAID FOR
ITSELF.”
Our Literary Prospectus is sent without obliga-
tion to all interested in Writing. Write for
your copy today.
■ Molts tmmpomtaity College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON ———-
To STOTT’S: Please send me full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
address
(5.8.1057) AGE
The Bulletin, May 15, 1957
BOOIiHUATER, Box 2671. G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text boos,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if sue*
cessfui.
The Red Page
ROY CAMPBELL
[By Geoffrey Dutton]
I have memories of Roy Campbell
in four different countries, England,
the south of France, Portugal and
South Africa. The backgrounds may
become muzzy, but never the big,
limping figure with the squashed-putty
face, features shifting from truculence
to goodwill, with a nature like his right
hand, sometimes open with friendship,
sometimes closed into a fist like a
mallee-root.
Roy’s swaying walk and jerky South
African voice suggested a lack of
balance; quite correctly, for he had
never been able to sit on fences, even
in his athletic youth when he was
agile enough to survive the bull-ring
or the jousting at Martigues. If he
gave you friendship there was no doubt
of the genuineness of the gift.
I first met Roy at Oxford, when I
was a student there after the war. He
had come down to talk to some literary
society, and I, who had been expecting
the tall, thin, intense poet of the
Augustus John portrait, was .brought
earthwards by this hefty man in a
duffel-coat who came stumping up the
hall to read his poems, not very well,
and explain that several of the best of
them had been stolen from French or
Provencal poets. I nervously went
up to talk to him after the meeting, and
mentioned something about Australia.
He grabbed my hand. “Man, thank
God to see another colonial amongst
all these bloody Pommies! Come and
let’s have a drink, quick, before the
pubs - close. Do you know this
society president of yours. [“Not
mine,” I said, disowning the fervent
little intellectual with ferret eyes in a
cocker-spaniel face.] Well, man,
wlra I arrived all he offered me was
a cup of te£ with powdered-milk in
it. Lef t go.”
This most un-8.8.C.-like character
was working in Broadcast House at
this time as a Talks Producer, and
used to meet his friends for drinks at
a pub around the corner. I always felt
that Roy was the only man in London
who should be allowed to wear a
duffel-coat in a pub; this practical
garment looks ludicrous when half-
covering a willowy elegance. Likewise
Roy’s flat-topped Spanish hat of hard
grey felt crowned his huge bald head
with a panache that would have
degenerated into affectation in a less
robust individual.
I asked him to bring his wife Mary
to dinner in a Soho restaurant to meet
my wife and a friend of ours, George
Bailey, half-Hungarian, half-American,
a man as big and tough as Roy. Mary,
although English, was as dark and
beautiful as a Velazquez portrait, and
as passionately serious as any Spaniard.
The dinner began badly by Roy
making some jesting remark about us
all being bourgeois nowadays. “Not
me,” muttered George, “I’m working-
class on both sides.” Eyes glowered
across the table, but a couple of
minutes later Campbell and Bailey were
good friends. George, by some odd
association of ideas, had confessed that
once, when he was suffering from
thkst in a Mexican desert, he had
drunk what Octavius, speaking of Mark
Antony, called “the stale of horses.”
<f‘Put it there, man!” exclaimed Roy.
“I had to do the same thing myself
once in Spain in the civil war. It
didn’t taste too bad, either.” From
then on the sparks flew around the
warmth of the table, and Roy’s talk
ranged from Baudelaire to bulls, from
St. John of the Cross to that vast
English club of homosexuality.
At this and many other meetings I
learned that Roy’s courtesy was always
paid to God, women and poetry, not
just a flourish of the Spanish hat, but
the respect of love and humility.
Humility is not the same as ’umbleness.
The latter, like Roy’s fists and his
satire, was part of his potent armory.
We went one night with Alister
Kershaw to the Poetry Society, where
Roy was to take the chair while Alister
read his own and my poems. At the
door was a female society lion-huntress,
who patronised Roy from the elevation
of her mink, while he stood to atten-
tion and said, “Yes, Ma’am; no,
Ma’am; thank you, Ma’am.” Even
she began to realise she was not the
Queen when he said, “May I sit down,
please, Ma’am? The wound in my leg
is troubling me tonight.”
About this time my first novel was
published, and the first reviews
appeared when I was ill in hospital,
including some superior remarks by
Marghanita Laski in the “Sunday
Times” about my colonial naivete. Roy
rang up my wife. “Nin, would you
like me to go round and give that
Laski woman a clop over the ear? I
know Geoff’s in hospital and can't do
it himself.”
In the summer of 1950 we rented half
a peasant’s cottage in the south of
France, near Richard Aldington’s villa
at St. Clair. Roy arrived, too, with
family, and took up residence at
Bormes, a craggy old village above the
sea.
They lived in a sort of a loft, where
Roy worked on his autobiography,
“Light on a Dark Horse.” He
acknowledged that but for Mary he
would never finish, this or any other
long book. “She locks me in my room
every day, she’s a wonderful woman.”
One day a little travelling circus came
to Bormes; and, to the delight of little
Catherine Aldington, Roy in no time
was good friends with the circus people
and their menagerie, including a wild
boar which escaped one night and
which Roy recaptured. In the even-
ings we drank a sour white wine at a
cafe and danced around the square to
a band playing a jerky tune whistled by
every boy and girl on the coast. “Be
careful of white wine,” warned Roy.
“Always stick to red wine, you know
where you are with red, but white’s
dangerous and it takes you in the
guts.”
Back in London he seemed caged by
English cosiness. One night we went
to the Campbells’ house to meet a
Spanish dancer. Roy was in a
Churchillian siren-suit under his
ordinary suit. “We’re off to live in
Lourenco Marques—come on, Mary.”
“No,” she answered fiercely, “we can’t
leave Europe. You ought to” —she
turned to us —“go back to Australia,
but I’m European, I’ve got to stay
here.”
When we met Roy three years later
in Durban, where he had gone to.
receive an honoraiy doctorate from the
University of Natal, he was in his
element and yet out of it. Amid all
his old friends, black and white, most
of the white ones looking rather scared
and wondering what this returning
prodigal was going to do next, he
seemed both at ease and uneasy. He
told us that he might go back to live
in Africa, if he had not already com-
mitted himself to a life in Europe, but
{“Red Page” continued on page 58)


96 Oxford St., Sydney
TRADING CO.
MAIL ORDERS: P.O. BOX 22,
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
BARGAINS IN EX-GOVT. TECHNICAL EQUIPMENT AND USEFUL GADGETS
Open Saturday
9 Mornings 9
8.30 to Noon
GENERATORS
WELDING
TYPE Pl—24-volt 200 amp.
makeß ideal welding outfit.
Will take up to 8-gauge Rod.
£37/10/-.
HOME LIGHTING
24-volt 1000 watt.
Type KX £l2/10/-
24-volt 1000 watt.
Type K £9/17/0
12-volt 750 watt.
Type LX £7/10/-
Paeking & delivery to rail, 5/-
Field Regulators, 60 ohm 2
amp £l/15/-
C'utout, 12-volt 9/11
Regulator and Cutout,
30-volt £3/10/-
Single “V” Pulley .. £l/15/-
AMP METERS
50-50 or 20-0-20, 50/-; 0-120.
87/6; 0-50, 42/6; 0-40. 42/6;
0-200 (large), at £4/19/6.
VOLTMETERS
0-20-v.. 22/6; 0-30-v., 37/6.
Packing and postage (all
States), 2/6.
RECTIFIERS (Meta!)
12-volt 3 amp. (copper
oxide) 45/-
6-volt 3 amp.
oxide) 34/6
6-volt 2 amp. (copper
oxide) 24/6
Packing and postage (all
States), 5/-.
Weather won’t worry those who wear
THESE FLYING SUITS!
‘
Splendid for MOTOR CYCLING, FISHING, for
use on BOATS, TRACTORS, etc. A warm, com-
fortable', one-piece garment in heavy proofed
canvas, with ZIPPERS on side, legs and seams for
facility and ease. Ample pocket space. Sizes from
oto 6. PRICE: 87/6 EACH. Packing and
postage, 5/-; interstate, 10/6.
THESE SUITS ARE REALLY WEATHER-
PROOF
GLOVES. White art silk INNER FLYING
GLOVES. Four thicknesses. Excellent all-purpose
article. For gardening, motoring, social functions
and countless other uses. At the give-away price
of 3/6 a pair. (No mail order for gloves.)
HEADPHONES
High Impedance, 3000 ohms, 32/6. Low Impedance, 150
ohms, 19/6. MICROPHONES. Carbon hand type with
Pressel Switch, BRAND NEW, 27/6.
Packing and postage fall States) 3/-.
• •
Oxygen Cylinders
Aqua Lung:
Tested 30001 b. pressure per sq.
in. 27 cubic ft. Sizes 14in. x
Tin £4/10/-
Compressor Cylinders
40011). pressure per sq. in.
Cubic capacity 500 cub in.
Size, 22in. x 6in. (non-sliatter-
able) £3/10/-
Packing and delivery to
railhead, 5/-.
Smaller models available on
iuspection, from 10/- each.
COMPASSES
Pocket Prismatic, Liquid
filled, £l2/10/-.
Packing and Post (all States) 8/-.
Hand Bearing Compass, com-
plete with Prism, Handle,
Bulk head mounting, £lO/10/-.
Packing arid post 7/6. Inter-
state 10/6.
P 8 Compass. Handy size for
small craft. Liquid filled,
s>}in. diameter x 3in. deep,
£3/19/6. Packing and Post 7/6.
Interstate 10/6.
WD.32 Compass. Another
suitable for small craft, cars,
etc. Liquid filled. 3Jin.
diameter, 2in. deep, 45/-.
Packing and post 5/-.
Interstate 7/6.
BINOCULARS
BRAND NEW, in leather cases. SCHOONER, 16 x 50,
£29/15/-; or 12 x 50, £27/15/-. ASTRON, 7 x 50, £22/10/-.
SIRIUS, 7 x 50, £23/15/-. LIMEIi, 7 x 50, £23/15/-.
IMPORTED. 4 x 40. £lO/10/-; or 4 x .10. £7/15/-. GEMELOS
FIELD GLASSES, 55/-. FRENCH BINOCULARS, 8 x 25,
£l2/19/6. Please call and select.
FISHERMEN! MOTORISTS! ETC.
TANK WHIP AERIALS
Flexible Steel. Make SPLENDID FISHING RODS or
CAR RADIO AERIALS. English slotted type. 3 sections,
121't., 22/6 per set. Two sections, Bft., 15/- per set.
AERIAL BASES to fit these. 7/6 each.
Packing and freight 5/-.
SUPERSENSITIVE ALTIMETERS
Precision instrument, British manufacture, 0 to 45,000 ft.,
graduated in 20ft. intervals, jewel movement. Great help
to HILL-CLIMBERS. Price £6/10/- each.
Packing and registered postage 6/-.
GRAND PUMPS!
VACUUM PUMP. With shaft
coupling. Will pump down to
Jin. of vacuum at approx.
1400 r.p.m. Price £4/10/- ea.
FUEL, PUMP. Made by
Thompson. BRAND NEW.
Will pump 400 galls, per hr.
Price £4/4/-.
Another model, TOO galls, per
hr. Fitted with shaft coup-
ling. Price £7/10/-.
These fuel pumps will pump
all types of liquid.
HYDRAULIC PUMPS. Three-
stage, 600!1>. per sq. in.
Price £7/10/-.
Another model. 12001 b. per sq.
in. This is very suitable for
operating fork lifts or other
similar equipment. £l2/10/-.
Packing and postage on
pumps 6/-. Interstate 8/6.
RADIO VALVES
You don’t have to pay high prices at 96 Oxford Street
for valve replacements. There are large, low-priced
stocks, among which are the following specials:
(plus postage)
SPECIAL, PRICES TO DEALERS, SERVICEMEN;
for quantities, on application.
RECORDING TAPE (Plastic)
As used by the A.B.C. In excellent condition.
2500 ft. (approx.) on Base Plate £2/17/6
1200 ft. (approx.) on Tin. Spool 1/15/0
600 ft. (approx.) on sin. Spool ..... 10/6
(Plus postage)
HANDY
TELEPHONES
Give Speedy and Efficient Link-up
DESK TYPE PHONES. New stocks. Powered by two
standard X cells. Identical in appearance with
standard P.M.6. Easy to instal—simply connect two
units with wire from terminals of each. Price £B/10/- ea.
OENEY PHONE. Compact wall or desk phone. Built-in
polished wooden box. Dimensions: !)}in. x Tin. x 3-Jin.
Externally-mounted, loud-ringing, double-action bells.
Standard handset and generator. Effective over many
miles. Price £6/10/- each.
HON V PHONE. Ideal communication phone. ROBUST
construction. Built-in portable. Metal case. Fitted with
buzzer call system. Price £4/19/6 each (with batteries).
SWITCH BOARDS, 6-line. Standard Army type, with
drop shutter indicators. Price £6/10/- each.
TELEPHONE WIRE. Single insulated wire. Dill, ex-
Army. Three-mile reels. £B/10/- per reel. One-mile reels,
£2/19/6 per reel. TWIN FLEX, 100-yd. reel, £l/19/6.
(All telephones or equipment 5/- extra for packing and
delivery to railhead.)
BUSH FIRE BRIGADES ! FLYING DOCTOR I BOAT OWNERS!
WIRELESS SET No. 122 (First Release)
to
it?
In Present Use By the - Australian
Military Forces.
NOTE THESE FEATURES:
• Approved by P.M.ft. for sreneral use.
© Uses current series of valves.
• Has 12-volt operation.
© Frequency coverage 2 to 8 Mcs.
® Crystal-controlled.
® Two crystals of nominated frequency
between 2 and s Mcs. supplied.
© Complete with dynamic microphone,
earphones and speaker.
• Range, 50-300 miles.
THE REAL THING FOR COMMUNICATION AT A
COMPETITIVE PRICE. £59/17/6 each.
Packing and delivery to railhead 5/- extra.


The Bulletin
Vol 78—No. 4031
Wednesday, May 15, 1957
The National Australian Newspaper
* Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
LEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ‘Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queens:.and: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buiidings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
INDONESIAN COMMUNISM
THE visit of Voroshilov, President of
the Soviet Union, to Indonesia has had
little mention in the Australian press.
It might not have been mentioned at
all if the Djakarta crowds, more
discerning than their Red-fazed leader,
had not demonstrated against one
whose voice was often heard before
World War II out-Stalining Stalin in
his threats, and whose main work was
the building-up of the Red armies
which tried to savage little Finland.
Voroshilov is technically the head
of the Russian State. His visit to
Djakarta therefore has the significance
of the visit of a crowned, head from
any monarchy. It has special point
from the fact that Soekarno has
been currently successful in foisting on
Indonesia a Government in which
strong Communist elements will be
given the opportunity to do their work
under the banner of “guided
democracy.”
The Russian - Chinese - Indonesian
alliance, as envisioned by Soekarno,
is a matter of immense import to the
world at large. It is fully in accord
with that 1953 concept of Mao Tsz-
tung, which calls for the surrounding
and subjugation of South-east Asia,
by just such a political process as is
now in being, with the Indonesian
islands taken over, and the bleating
Indians and the uncertain Burmese and
the divided Indo-China “countries”
corralled as a preliminary to the estab-
lishment of satellite regimes and the
recruitment of the 25-million men
whom Mao believes can be got for
gun-fodder in southern Asia to further
the designs of the world revolution—
H-bombs regardless, apparently.
The Mao plan was not something
designed after the establishment of the
Communist Government in Peking, but
actually arose from planning which
took place in Australia during the
war when the Commonwealth sheltered
many of the leading Communists of
South-east Asia and practically the
whole of the Indonesian party-leaders.
It was developed at the Calcutta
Conference of 1948, at which there
were delegates from Australia, Ceylon,
China, India,- Indonesia, Korea,
Malaya. Pakistan, the Philippines and
Vietnam, plus three Russians and
three Yugoslavs and side-groups of
13 Russians and several Australasian
leaders (including Sharkey) who did
not take part in the actual discussions,
since it would have attracted too much
attention, but who were the head-and-
front of the proceedings.
The conference approved the thesis
put forward by the Indian party-
delegates for producing armed struggle
in all European-held colonies in or
south of Asia, to make “the people’s
democracy everywhere an immediately
obtainable objective.”
The ensuing events, including the
revolts in Burma, Indonesia and China
and the intensification of the revolu-
tionary activities of Malaya, were all
part of the plot hatched at Calcutta.
Actually Sharkey was one of those
who visited Singapore and reported to
a meeting of the Central Committee of
the Malayan Communist party, as has
since been established quite as clearly
as the fact that within a year or two
afterwards - the Soviet Embassy in
Canberra delivered a large sum of
money to this Australian.
Sharkey, during that trip, stopped-off
in Indonesia with the two Indonesian
delegates to Calcutta, and it is
significant that 1949 saw a deliberate
attempt by the Communists in
Indonesia to take over; also, a change
in trends through the strengthening
of the party which enabled Musso, the
Lenin of the Indonesian Communists,
who had been in exile in Moscow for
a number of years, to come home and
become once more secretary-general of
the party and to put into operation the
beginnings of the “Gottwald” tech-
nique, which has been operating ever
since, aiming to secure entrance to the
Soekarno Government with a view to
capturing it. The idea seemed so near
success when Musso had up to
50,000 Communist troops and the
Madiun rebellion was staged in mid-
-1949; but he failed—and was killed—
due to lack of proper preliminaries.
The events of 1949, save in China,
where Mao achieved his final triumph,
were generally rated failures, but, like
most Communist failures, they left a
foothold behind from which advances
have steadily been made.
The results were consolidated by the
so-called Australasian Conference of
the World Federation of Trade Unions
in Peking, dominated by the Russians
and Chinese, but with delegations
headed by Thornton from the Aus-
tralian Communist party. The princi-
pal rapporteur was Liu Shao-shih, who
has since moved up into second-place
in the Peking hierarchy and is now
marked down as Mao’s almost certain
successor—if he lives long enough.
He developed the theme of the need
to give drive to “the progressive Labor
movement and the widespread national
liberation movements in Asia and
Australasia.” He said—his speech was
broadcast over Peking radio:—
The war of national liberation in
Vietnam has freed 90 per cent, of her
territory. The war of national libera-
tion in Burma and Indonesia is now
developing; the partisan war against
imperialism and its lackeys in Malaya
and the Philippines has been carried on
over a long period, and armed struggles
for emancipation have also taken place
in India.... The Labor movements and
national liberation movements in Siam,
in the Near East and in Australasia are
growing. .. .Side-by-side with the power-
ful development of the national libera-
tion and labor movements in these
colonies and semi-colonies is the mighty
''Soviet Union.
The policies outlined at Peking are
to be seen working in Indonesia and
Australia in unison.
This is being done so successfully in
Indonesia that Soekarno is obviously
in Communist thrall, and in Australia.
Here already it is difficult to tell
which is the Communist party and
which is the Evatt-Calwell party. Here,
certainly, as a thousand incidents and
policies indicate, Liu’s dictum of the
United Front is being carried out. Also
his further dicta following the estab-
lishment of the “W.F.T.U. Australasian
Liaison Bureau,” which was composed
of four groups—one from the Soviet
Union, one from India, one from
China and one from the Australian
Communist party represented at that
time by Thornton. The bureau began
to operate on the eve of the Korean
war, its objective set out by Liu—
“mutual help and support in the
organised activity of workers of
various countries, so that more
powerful struggles can be carried on
against world reactionary forces—
imperialism.”
The Australian Communist party is
up to its neck in the business which
brought Voroshilov to Indonesia. The
complacence of Australians about its
intensifying subversion and liaison with
enemies who are acquiring bombing-
sites almost on our coast is as
staggering as the stupidity with which
the rank-and-file of Australian workers
permit their leaders to mouth the
treacheries of the Communist con-
spirators.


BANGERS


PLAIN ENGLISH
Seeing the Light
The Federal Government’s annual
review of the economy, delivered in
Parliament by Sir Arthur Fadden in the
absence of Mr. Menzies, was a much
more explicit document than that read
last year, when the Administration could
see little light ahead.
But Fadden’s mention of the tendency
to “do too much” had its humors, when
coupled with his censure of consequential
waste of effort and tendencies to inflation,
in the light of the fact that the most
zealous pushers-ahead with unrealisti-
cally planned development, absorbing
money which should be going into free
enterprise, have been Governments
(mostly State) and public authorities.
The dictum that “in the private sector
decisions on expenditure were made by
businessmen on their own judgments” is
rather bland and strikingly incomplete.
Their “own judgments” are qualified (a)
by restrictions imposed by the State and
their ability or otherwise to pay for
imported capital equipment; ( b ) the
effects of import-restrictions; (c) the
level of taxation, especially those forms
which affect constructional and expan-
sional plans and depreciation ; ( d )
Government competition on Socialist
lines in transport, etc.; ( e ) Government
neglect of facilities such as ports ; and
(/) bank credit, which is vitally affected
by Government, and particularly central-
bank, policy.
The departments in which Sir Arthur
complained that “there were still serious
and growing deficiencies in some branches
of the capital structure —including land-
and sea-transport, systems, traffic in the
capital cities, electric power,” are those
in which private enterprise has suffered
most competition and is being stifled by
a union-ridden, extravagant policy of
Socialism.
The admission that “nothing good”
can be said for import-restrictions and
that they are “damaging in their impact
on local trade and industry, in the trade
and industry of other countries and on
our relationships with those countries”
and that they “administratively create
intractable problems” and “cause dislo-
cation in some local industries and give
arbitrary protection to others, the result
being to force up costs,” is a candid and
commonsense admission of fact. As is the
statement that “the greater part of public
expenditure is not capital expenditure
directed to enlargement of the economy,
but is, in effect, consumption expendi-
ture,” and that widening the range and
raising the level of the services provided
by Governments “mainly adds to con-
sumption.”
One particularly encouraging aspect of
the teview is its emphasis on productivity
and costs, a basic problem completely
sidestepped by the economic octet of
February last year. It also acknowledges
that “relative wage-levels have a major
place” in the costs problem, “but they
are far from being the only element,” and
“special emphasis” is placed on the need
for “up-to-date techniques and processes
and forms of equipment, and this applies
to every field of production, transport and
distributive activity.”
The problem of financing the expansion
which Australia so urgently needs “is
unquestionably the core of the whole
problem of growth,” the survey says. “The
level of output, upon which the rate of
growth in all its aspects depends, must be
governed largely by the adequacy or
otherwise of our capital facilities and
equipment. We shall, however, defeat our
own efforts to provide that equipment
unless we can find means and methods of
paying for it which, on the one hand,
avoid inflation and, on the other hand, do
not subtract from potential savings and
do not discourage effort and enterprise.”
All very truly said.
Bustling the American
Australia’s Coral Sea Week guest,
Admiral Felix Budwell Stump, during his
visit ran to such a tight schedule drawn-
up by the Australian-American Associa-
tion and the Federal Government that the
chief impression left with Australians,
particularly Melburnians when time was
getting short, was of his devotion to his
aide’s wrist-watches and his intense
interest in the time.
The United States has sent us a most
distinguished series of guests in recent
years. They include Admiral A. W.
Radford, Admiral Thomas Kinkaid,
Lieut.-General Robert L. Eichelberger,
Admiral William F. Halsey, Lieut.-
General Bruce C. Clarke, and Lieut.-
General James H. Doolittle ; and it has
been difficult to believe, so onerous have
been their official programmes, that they
have not been in a hurry to salute a
farewell.
This year the Americans have expanded
their salutation to the nation with their
warships, which have, or wffl, show the
star-spangled banner in the ports of
Brisbane, Newcastle, Sydney, Melbourne,
Perth and Darwin.
The programme arranged for the
official guest each year explains the haste.
In each of the mainland capitals he is
expected to make continual official calls
during his days, especially on Premiers
and Lord Mayors, which must be just as
futile and profitless for them as for the
noted guest, to attend tight little parties
in the evening and occasionally have a
free night.
Admiral Stump’s appearances where
he could be seen and heard by the public
were, with the exception of Perth, made
at times when most Australians were
working, and it has become increasingly
clear over the years that a focal, signifi-
cant, popular demonstration of Aus-
tralian-American solidarity in the Pacific
(moving from capital to capital each year,
possibly) would be preferable.
The Coral Sea March in Melbourne
was one of the few items on the long
programme in which the public was
offered at least audience-participation,
but it was seen only by those whose duties
permitted them to be free at midday, it
is possible that a grand, picturesque march
at night might provide the spark to fire
the public imagination. .
The programmes current for the past
few years have been, clearly, pains-
takingly evolved to observe protocol and
Service etiquette, but they must impress
on the visitor that he is here officially,
and there is little encouragement for
citizens to see and hear an important
American sent here as an earnest of the
Americans’ belief in our joint interest,
and future, in the Pacific.
Not Enough Doctors
Sir Albert Coates, who is not only a
distinguished surgeon of innumerable
delicate operations but also a blunt man
of action, has succeeded in getting a move
on towards solving the dilemma in Vic-
toria of too many posts for too few
doctors.
He has asked for, and got, a committee
of inquiry of the University Council into
the present limitation on numbers
admitted to the University medical course
on the simply-stated ground that it was
urgent the council should let the public
know the council was aware of the
problem and proposed to do something
about it.
Some months ago Coates criticised the
present quota-system of training medical
students, and he voiced his doubts about
the wisdom of importing Latvian, Czech
and Mexican doctors when Victorian
boys, who might have become brilliant
graduates, weren’t given the opportunity.
The eminent surgeon speaks with both
his head and heart on this matter. Vic-
torians are naturally growing sceptical
of a medical profession that, in one arm
or another, limits both the intake of
students and of distinguished European
doctors, and the surgeon’s plain admis-
sions of it are welcome.
He speaks, too, from memories of his
own difficulties in graduating. He was a
postboy in 1910, with dreams of becom-
ing a doctor, and he was one of the first
ashore at Gallipoli. When he returned
he had to work in the mail-room at the
G.P.O. and study at night.
He became famous, of course, for his
heroic work among the men who built
the Hell Railway in Burma, and he
shared with Ernest (Weary) Dunlop the
distinction of operating, when supplies
were denied by the Japanese, with primi-
tive instruments and ingenious drugs made
of, among other things, kitchen waste.
The University Council unanimously
agreed to the committee of inquiry
suggested by Sir Albert Coates. A reason
for this unanimity undoubtedly is the
Overcrowded condition of the present
medical school; the second (and not un-
worthy) reason may be the need to prepare
a case for Federal aid in building a
second medical school.


Elections
[From Canberra]
Despite a spate of talk lately, there is
little chance of a Federal poll before the
end of next year. Constitutionally the
next elections must be held before March,
1959, and this indicates a December poll,
with the results in well before Christmas
next year.
A report that the Government might
hold a snap election in May, 1958, can
be taken with a grain of salt. Why should
the Menzies-Fadden coalition rush into
an election when it has almost nothing to
fear from Labor, plenty of time to
produce a popular Budget as a 1958
Christmas-present, and little chance
of losing to Evatt anyway?
Labor men are peddling the story of
an early poll to create the illusion that
Menzies is going to make a deal with the
D.L.P. in a desperate bid to prevent Bert
from attaining office.
However, there is some sense in official
Labor’s rejection of the theory that the
D.L.P.’s decision to contest most Opposi-
tion-held seats in the next election
represents a real threat to the A.L.P.
The D.L.P. has yet to prove that its
policy is anything more than a middle-
road between Left-wing A.L.P. “ideals”
and general Liberal-party principles. It
lacks any distinctive flavor of originality.
Labor electors who don’t like Evatt are
more likely to vote for the Government
in the hope that long office will make it
stale and a long exile in the political
wilderness will force the A.L.P. to dump
its Federal Parliamentary leader as a first
step in re-creating the Labor party.
Nasser—or Dulles—Wins
Nasser has won temporarily on the Suez
issue, and with the exception of France,
every country (including Britain) appears
to be obliged to allow its ships to pass
through the canal and pay dues to Egypt.
It is all a surrender to international
corruption. The part played, and still
being played, by the United States will
be hard to forget, especially for British
peoples.
Inis is the second time the Common-
wealth was betrayed—the first at Yalta,
where President Roosevelt went behind
the backs of his British Commonwealth
allies to bargain with Stalin and hand
over the East to Russia—even seeking by
secret arrangement to exclude the British
from Hong Kong and from any part
in the control of Korea, a policy in which
he was backed by his advisqrs, who
included the notorious Alger Hiss.
On this occasion the U.S.A. reacted
vehemently against what its press called
the “colonialist aggression” of Britain
and France. It backed a dishonest
aggressor with imperialist plans. It has
shouldered the British out of their sphere
of influence in the Middle East, where
their pressure against tensions was mild
and experienced. It has replaced this
influence with its own, which is wielded
by exhibitions of the strength of the
Sixth Fleet, of which there have been
two within the past couple of weeks. It
has encouraged Russia by its swash-
buckling.
It seems to be quite patent that what is
behind the Washington concern for the
interests of little nations —most of which
are merely nests of medieval-minded
bandits in which the slave trade and the
harem run current wherever British moral
influence has not rooted them out —is a
desire for the control‘of Arabian oil and
African resources.
The removal of British leadership and
support in Jordan naturally left a vacuum
and was the signal for an advance of
the U.S.S.R. southward. Jordan has
become a bone over which the dogs of
Washington and the Kremlin are now
fighting. King Hussein has been forced
to turn back to his real friends, the
Glubb-trained officiers, whom he deserted
in favor of the stooges of Nasser and
Khrushchev. And he is now seeking to
replace the subsidies which he had from
Britain, and which he announced
that he would not again accept from
any Power a few weeks ago, from an all-
too-willing Uncle Sam, who is eager to
move in a little nearer to Bahrein.
The observer of events in the Middle
East must get an almost cynical amuse-
ment —if there is any amusement to be
had out of disaster —from watching the
countries along the Indian Ocean one-
by-one realising their mistakes of last
November.
Calling Caucus BlufF
[From Canberra]
Dr. Evatt really called their bluff when
he prevented members of the Federal
Parliamentary Labor party from debat-
ing the Queensland Labor dispute, and
then, in the next breath so to speak,
steamrollered through the party’s
“acceptance” of a Red China invitation.
Proof that the Doc.’s control of
caucus has assumed almost dictatorial
proportions is evident by the lack of
opposition to his decision squashing
Daly’s motion to debate the Queensland
dispute and the silent reception accorded
his announcement of the Red invitation.
The Bulletin, last week, forecast the
end of the Daly fiasco and earlier drew
attention to the Peking invitation origin-
ally directed personally to Dr. Evatt. Of
course, in the light of an unsympathetic
public reaction, the Doc. now finds he
will be too tied-up in London, India and
Israel to go to China himself.
Instead, the party will send a delega-
tion of four whose names will be selected
by ballot at the caucus meeting today
(May 15). It’s a sure bet that one of the
four will be a Grouper. Now that the
invitation is official, all expenses paid, and
promises a succession of lavish receptions
and bonhomie (even if it is the Com-
munist variety) it’s every man for himself.
Not one of the party cynics has com-
plained, though, of the strange inconsis-
tencies in Dr. Evatt’s recent statements
on the China visit. Three weeks ago he
denied any invitation had been tendered ;
now he has told a press conference that
the invitation originally came from a
Chinese trade delegation which visited
Australia last year and was conveyed
directly to him.
It will be interesting to see whether
Labor’s delegation makes any attempt to
visit Formosa —stronghold of the non-
Communist Chinese —to compare the
standard of living, civil liberties and so on.
Any such move would stand a strong
chance of being nipped in the bud by the
Reds, who are noted for their dislike of
invidious comparisons.
While the chosen four are living it high
on Red largesse, Evatt will be attending
a conference of British Commonwealth
Labor and Socialist party-leaders in
London. The conference is expected to
last until the middle of June, after which
Evatt will return to Australia via the
Middle East. It’s to be hoped that he wiil
stick to this decision and leave the Red
China junketing to four rank-and-filers
who can do Australia comparatively little
harm.
Car Thieves
Sentencing four Sydney youths to 12
months’ jail for car-stealing, Judge
Rooney remarked that jail was the only
deterrent to the car-thief, and that he
could not consider any other course;
since the courts had started giving jail-
sentences instead of good-behavior bonds
there had been an appreciable drop in the
number of cars stolen.
For all the youths it was a first con-
viction, though one of them was charged
with two separate thefts, so a yearns im-
prisonment may seem rather harsh.
However, it can’t be denied that the bond-
system failed dismally. It didn’t halt the
mounting tally of thefts and it didn't
reform the thieves ; many repeated the
offence while still under bond.
For a long time the police were
hampered in their attempts to reduce
car-thefts by the fact that the law dis-
tinguished between stealing a car and
“illegally using” it —a distinction which
the owner of the pinched vehicle found
rather difficult to understand. Equally
encouraging to the car-stealer was the
widely held view that lads who
“borrowed” cars weren’t thieves at all,
but merely mixed-up kids, or victims of
broken homes, or high-spirited lad; look-
ing for adventure, or just unfortunate
youngsters who didn’t own a car.
When a bill to deal with car-stealing
was before the Victorian Parliament
Opposition-leader Cain and some of his
followers seemed to be of the opinion
that the real culprits were the people
who had their cars stolen, especially if
their vehicles were not fitted with an anti-
thief device-. Some high-spirited young-
sters have shown their appreciation of
being thwarted by such devices by slash-
ing the upholstery and otherwise damag-
ing the car they couldn’t get away with.
In earlier times it is quite possible that
horses were sometimes “illegally used” by
high-spirited youngsters. But it is also
highly probable that the vast majority
of horses taken without their owners’
consent were simply stolen. Our grand-
fathers thought so, and they weren't very
lenient with horse-thieves.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
r’S not only girls who get the jitters
after a maniacal-assault case; in
Brisbane a young fellow told me: “Last
night I got off the tram and waited for a
girl to hurry ahead so she wouldn’t be
scared of me in the dark. I saw she was
nervous when she put a whistle in her
mouth and, shining her torch, started
walking down the long street I live in.
Slowly I walked behind. She turned
several times to eye me suspiciously, so
I decided to run and get in front of her.
Then she started running, too. Fed-up,
1 did a John Landy down the footpath
on the other side of the street, and oh,
bov, was I glad to open our front gate!”
—“A.G.R.”
♦j+ a
“Narumee”: She was in the middle of
a telephone-conversation when I called.
She hissed at me: “Plumbers!” and then
bawled into the receiver: “But it is
urgent! That round, circular, spherical
thing in the sort of box isn’t making the
water stop coming and the trickle’s
driving me crazy!”
♦>
“Wusslean”: The bus-driver brought
our bus to a grinding halt bang up against
the kerb and, to our anxious eye, peri-
lously close to an electric-light post on
the extreme edge of the footpath. “You’re
too near that post, aren’t you?” asked a
passenger. The driver turned around
and said curtly, “Listen, mate, I’ve been
driving buses twenty years.” The
rebuked one slunk back in his seat and
tried to avoid our eyes ; the bus started
noisily ; then came an unpleasant scraping
sound as a broad strip of paint transferred
itself from the bus’s side to the post. Our
driver didn’t turn a hair. Stopping the
bus 2.gain, he remarked in a tone of mild
surprise, “Cripes, mate, you’re right!”
»> »> ♦>
“D.H.E.”: Asking for directions in a
small country town I called at a baker’s
shop. “Where’s such-and-such street?”
1 asked. “Just up the road a bit,” replied
the lass behind the counter. “Does it
cross this road?” I continued. “Oh, no,’
she said ; “this road crosses it!”
❖ * *
“Uramao”: Met one joker who is not
prepared to swell the chorus of approval
of The Bulletin’s new dress. He has
been cutting out the pages of Low’s auto-
biography, trimming the edges, and titi-
vating the many instalments so that they
might appear as the pages of a book ; he
reckoned the autobiography would have
more and better illustrations that way.
Now he finds the smaller pages of the
Bully have interrupted the symmetry of
his volume . . . Enzed’s part in the new
production pleased him, however, for in
; ripping out the pages he was made aware
of the toughness of the N.Z. paper used.
♦> ♦> *>
“Ceg”: It’s an ill-wind that blows
nobody any good. The tremendous
amount of extra work now available to
the Victorian Bar is largely accounted for
by motor-car accident-cases. Before
World War II there were only four or
five K.C.s in active practice. Today
there are somewhere near forty, three
more Q.C.s having just been appointed
—so in that Bar “One for the Road” is a
peculiarly sacred toast.
“Sensar”: Staff-men and students who
organised the City Hall (Brisbane) public
meeting to protest against the Govern-
ment’s University Bill had members of the
University Judo Club acting as ushers.
$ «&
“Sarsen”: The rapid expansion
in department-stores in Brisbane
has increased competition between
them, and not only between
individual stores but also those
grouped in the “Valley” and those in
the upper city—or at the “Smarter end
of Queen-street,” as their publicity-plugs
have it. But the latter’s sales-campaign
suffered a jolt in the boner of the break-
fast-announcer who advised Iris listeners
to “Buy better at and ’s
at the Queerer end of Smart-street.”
“ Mum — don't you think it's time
you got a bigger plug for baby?"
JUST A FEW WORDS
“The show is bonzer’’ — London “Star”; “A beaut....” — London "Daily
Hejcald”; “....just ‘Dinkum’ — London “News Chronicle “....the impact
of a well-aimed boome:an>.’.” — London “Daily Mirror.’’
We were pleased, Mr. London-town critic,
That you liked Mr. Ray Lawler s play;
You might have been more analytic, ■
But we wouldn’t dictate what to say,
Except . . . well, there’s things we can’t sponsor.
We don't want to start a dispute,
But we’d rather you didn’t say “bonzer,”
And we wish that you wouldn’t say “beaut’*
You may speak of a play as “a boomerang’
For its impact and aim, and all that ;
Perhaps “Dinkum Aussays” need humorang,
Though the phrase falls a little bit flat;
But it really is piling it on, sir,
With a trowel, when men of repute
In London, trot out poor old “bonzer”
And refer to a play as “a beaut.”
We’re fond of our slang in all places
Where the people who made it are found ,
But when Englishmen speak them, our phrases
Take on a peculiar sound:
In what’s known to Frenchmen as “ton,” sir,
Our hearing is rather acute,
And if only you wouldn’t say “bonzer”
We’d really consider it beaut.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


TTOW profound a cynicism dwells in
the N. S. Wales Railways Depart-
ment ! The only day it bothers to send its
ticket-inspector through the North Shore
trains to the city is on Fridays when all
the housewives go in to do their shopping
.. . and I suppose there’s an awful thought
in the department’s mind that if the
ladies weren’t checked en route they’d all
tell the collectors at Wynyard that they
got on at North Sydney instead of Pymble
or Chatswood. It’s a cynicism that pays,
too ; I’ve never yet seen a Friday when
the inspector didn’t bag two or three
victims in my carriage.—“S.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Bo”: Monotonously often some
schoolboy goes missing ; frantic parents
co-opt police and searchers, and after the
brat is found it transpires that he’d “had”
school and shot-through. Having been
splashed all over the front page of an
afternoon-paper as a hero, he’ll naturally
be treated as one by the rest of the kids
when he gets back to school. It also
follows that Mum will be so thankful to
“Well, Well—he seems to know you.”
get him back —though what for is often
a mystery —that she will forbid Dad to
administer punishment. In the days when
we wagged it to catch tiddlers among the
dead dogs down at the waterhole a hero-
worshipping stunt-press wasn’t operating ;
search-parties and cops were dispensed
with, the old man being well aware that
I’d come back in my own good time. For
the stickful of copy and the two-column
photo was substituted a good-quality
belt. I’ll say this was more effective
than the intervention of the Fourth
Estate.
* «j« >;«
“Tabba”: “Turn off the highway at
the signpost that says ‘Bellbrook 2
miles,’ ” she told me over the phone.
“One-and-a-half miles from the highway
you come into the village ; turn right at
the school and our property is first on
the left.” I repeated the directions to
make sure I’d got them. “That’s right,”
she said. “But you can’t see the school
from the road.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Tackline S.”: Not only do skippers
of British merchant ships lack the
power to perform marriage-ceremonies
(B. 8/5/’57), but it is a criminal offence for
them to do so. When Captain A. C. Inglis
of the ship County of Dumfries called at
Pitcairn Island the islanders begged him
to tie some knots. Back in England he
faced trial, but because of the excep-
tional circumstances the court acquitted
him. A naval skipper on foreign station
may celebrate marriages on board only if
no facilities exist on shore. The Foreign
Marriages Order in Council permits this.
❖ ❖ ❖
“North Esk”: Launceston (Tas.)
hoisted its new flag for the first time on
Anzac Day, over the Town Hall where
Alderman Dorothy Edwards occupies the
mayoral chair: green and gold ; three
waratahs (the State’s floral emblem) on
its upper section, below them an inverted
Y in blue, representing the River Tamar
and the North and South Esk rivers. In
the confluence of the rivers a gold dot
symbolises gold-finds in the neighbor-
hood, while silver- and lead-ingots mark
the discoveries of those metals. A small
copy of the flag adorns the front of the
mayoral car.
»!• *x«
“Quo Vadis”: “What a lovely collar!”
said our New Australian neighbor as the
moke put its head over our front fence.
It wore no collar, we pointed out. He
expanded in explanation; “No. No.
Co-lar. Bee-ue-tee-ful co-lar. Jased-not,
eet ees.” We worked it out later. Can
you?
*> ►> »T«
“Bella Fonty”: A piano-student sitting
for a degree-exam, was asked to explain
how come Bach wrote “for the well-
tempered clavichord” after the 48
Preludes and Fugues. “Oh,” he answered
brightly, “that refers to Bach’s frame of
mind, you know, his mood, when he com-
posed them!”
THE CELLULOID DISTILLERY
“She has the sort of curves that intoxicate I’*
—Talkie blurb.
She may have the loveliest tresses ;
Personality-plus she possesses ;
Put all she has in her caresses,
Wear slinkiest dress to attract.
Have a face of a beauty excelling ;
And eyes that are boldly compelling,
A voice that there’s no paralleling.
She may even know how to act!
Yet this screen-heroine,
If she’s lacking in curves,
The researcher and prober
Her weakness will pin,
For he clearly observes
Why she leaves the fans sober.
He’ll be ripe, though, for saddened
delusion,
Who leaps to the simple conclusion
That a gal who has any profusion
Of flesh where she needs it the most,
Must have an effect on the viewer
Like the stuff that is sold by the brewer.
It takes quite an expert construer
(And he in his subject engrossed)
To find the degree
That a curve must attain —
Plus the wearing of what on —-
Before any he
Can be sure he’ll obtain
Enough thrills to get shot on.
One night lately homeward 1 staggered,
And looking, l don’t doubt, quite
haggard.
The strife stormed at me for a laggard,
Described me, l think, as a sot.
Oh, monstrous injustice ! I’d merely
Attended a talkie, and dearly
I’d paid for that pleasure, for clearly
The victim I’d been of a plot.
For Diana and Jane
(Of the curves so pronounced)
Aren’t an influence steady.
I’d got fuddled of brain
As those cuties had flounced,
For that brew was too heady !
n.s.w.
S. W. K.


C'YDNZY Un'i.’s Commem.-day “Honi
G? Soit” libet on the daiiy press was a
great improvement on ns "Bull-fin 1 ’
number. Everyone had a favorite p.ece ;
my family went for the “Sun’s” picture
or a University edifice with uotteu lines
snowing the course the man would- have
ta.,en, had he jumped.—“Munk.”
“Rake”: About these and
Daughter” businesses: Hasn’t someone
overlooked the old-established firm of
Mrs. Joy and Daughters?
* * *
h'xike” * Astrology is becoming
popular in some queer places. Rece.ved
a parcel carefully wrapped in a news-
sheet, in which typical items were “Lottery
Luck,” “Birthday Forecasts” and “The
Stars in Racing.” Contents of the parcel
were scientific equipment and the sender
a Government laboratory.
.
“Metax”: In a book of fairy-tales my
eight-year-old daughter came to one
headed “The Swineherd.” L passed the
pocket O.D. for her to find the word
herself. Getting the meaning seemed to
be a troublesome affair. So 1 had to find
my glasses after all. I was even more
interested than' she to read that swine
are “kinds of ungulate non-ruminant
omnivorous mammal, pig....”
>Tf A A
“7 E.F.”: On the R.A.A.F. training-
station where I did my war the chaplains’
hut and the post-office were allotted new
positions. Almost immediately the padres
found groups of men coming along to
their quarters in greater numbers, and the
postal officials reported suddenly
increased stamp sales. The buildings stood
on high piles, overlooking W.A.A.A.F.
quaiters whete the girls inuulged in sun-
bathing. Business got back to normal
when an unfeeling officer became a wake-
up and ordered a 4ft. lift to tne
Surrounding paling fence.
“0.G.”: The woman at the upstairs-
window was complaining to the girl next-
door that old somiers who never die were
at least in danger of fading away in the
traffic when crossing to the new Anzac
House in College-street, Sydney. “There's
a safety-tunnel at the otner end of College-
street which noboay uses,” sard the girl-
next-door. “Why don’t they shift mat
to Anzac House?”
“Ex-ACT”: Australian lottery-winners
may care to follow tne example ot a
Ceylonese father-oi-nine who won 42,472
rupees in Colombo in March. He told
a Colombo newspaper that he earned fus
living making rattan baskets and that
when his wife fell sick he had been forced
to mortgage a piece of land for 500
rupees. Now he was going to spend half
his winnings on the construction of a
temple, and conduct “a large alms-giving
in memory of my father.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mac Hoots”: I know I’m a bit late,
but may i dip my lid to “Smiley”—now
going round the Sydney suburbs —as by
far the best Australian film I’ve seen!
The wide screen makes the scenery
superb, full of gumtrees and the great
open spaces we really do have; the
country town (granted that the period gets
a bit mixed up, so that everybody can
dash around on horses) sprawls and
sleeps most beautifully in the sun;
Smiley, if the plot takes him to im-
probable heights, remains a natural and
Liveable small boy, catching yabo»es m
the creek and cheeicing the teaener as we
all once did ; and even the plot, though
there’s a bit of nonsensical smuggling in
it and 1 can’t see how the publican would
make a fortune selling opium to the
aborigines, never shays into the wild
melodrama that spoilt tne aeveiopment of
jedoa. Ihe only th.ng i reiuiy co-i-a t
bear was Smiley s fathei s wmsneis.
“8.A.H.": The last three books of four-
penny stamps I’ve bought have been
trimmed so drastically that most of the.
penoiations have gone too. If,
as Ive always uudeislocd, the^e
perforations aie an integral P ai *t
the stamp and have to comoim to rig.d
standards, isn t some postal or pndateuc
iaw bein S brolCen-
“Kenyas”: The hard-bitten character
waiting for the train at Turramurra on
the upper reaches of the Noith Snore
fine grumbled, “This part of the world’s
no bloody good to me. I’m going to move
back into civilisation where there’s a bit
of life. D’you know there’s less than
half-a-dozen pubs between North Sydney
and Hornsby?”
"Won't you let a bloke forget you?"
IN THE LAP OF THE ODDS
“Mr. Cahill proposes to finance the Benelong
Point Opera House with special lotteries.”
What shall we name it, where the lilt
Of singing charms the closing day
And heroes strut with hand on hilt ?
Why ! If Joe Cahill has his way
’Twill he “The house that Jack-Pot
built!’’
n.s w.
D. H. E.


CJINCE 1910 our Bulletin file has
been stacking-up and now runs to
over a hundred bound volumes—about
two per year. Hie new size and increased
thickness will mean binding quarterly,
and that’s probably what our librarian
was thinking when she beheld the issue
of March 27. She looked at it, somewhat
stunned, decided it must be The
Bulletin, then commented peevishly,
“These journals make me mad! Why’re
they always changing size?” —“Kem-
berry.”
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Stan”: Attempting to impress on my
acquaintance the Herculean task of try-
ing to save on wages I pointed to a large
modern building being erected in Mel-
bourne : “The average man would work
all his life and not amass enough dough
to pay for the glass in those windows.”
My friend (an average man) glanced sky-
wards, and sniffed contemptuously:
“Even if they gave me the glass I wouldn’t
know what to do with it.”
♦> ♦>
“8.A.H.”: In a statement on* the
closure of a South Coast (N.S.W.)
butter-factory, the chairman of the board
said that the factory had made a huge
loss last year. My mirth was indignantly
cut short by an accountant friend who
coldly informed me that the word was
common usage in such circumstances.
But he couldn’t tell me why. Probably
for the same reason that makes it neces-
sary for a State Premier to officially open
a new jail.
! ❖ ♦> ♦>
“Sister Ellell”: Funny how many
people, in the guise of requesting advice,
really only want a listening-post. A
wardsmaid said “Have a screw at me
knee, Luv?” I replied lightly, “Got the
screws, eh?” And she said “I dunno—
something queer, anyway.” I prayed for
guidance, as joints are a closed book to
me, and as she rolled down her stocking
I glimpsed her gnarled fingers. “Any
arthritis in your family?” I queried.
“Don’t think so.” Then, brightening up:
“But I tell you what we have got, and
that’s the rooma-tiks. My boy, now,
he was in the hospital for two years, with
the rooma-tik fever. The Doctor said
‘He’s dying!’ I said ‘Don’t give me that,
Doc.’ And he lived for eight years after;
that; but die he did. Yes, I’ll say we’ve
got the rooma-tiks!” As she rolled her
stocking up, I wondered if she was satis-
fied with her own diagnosis, as I didn’t
utter another word!
❖ *Z*
“Ranji”: As a cog in the postal wheel
I’ve ground my teeth over parcels of
broken bottles \>f various liquids ; rotten
fruit, mushrooms, rabbits and fish ; even
a putrid baby shark, which contaminated
every other article in the mail-bag, sent
anonymously, probably by someone-who
didn’t like the addressee. The latest was
someone’s Easter Sunday dinner —a
smelly, dressed rooster. It’s amazing how
many fail to endorse such parcels
“perishable.”
"O.K.-let's go!"
“Helldud”: When a new very junior
girl in our office told the boss she lived
about two miles past The Black Stump
he regarded it as an impertinence. But
the nipper was in earnest. “The Black
Stump” is the name given to a dwelling
on the road between Dural and Glenorie,
Sydney.
♦> * *>
“N. 8.”: Two boys in an old car swung
sharply in front of me from a side street
and out of their petrol-tank jerked a jug-
ful of petrol. I blew the horn, but with
an uneasy conscience over the side-street
side-swipe they sped off. I slackened
speed, but their losses of petrol brought
them to a halt at the side of the road.
When I got out of the car they were
rather scared-looking, taking up reluc-
tant battle-stances, and the relief on their
faces when I merely pointed out the
trouble was highly gratifying to a mild
man, generally on the defensive.
♦3* ♦> »>
“Doric”: In most British cities will be
found a statue of the late Queen Victoria
—far too late; for posterity’s sake,
statues of our Queen should be made
now.
❖ ♦> . *Z*
“Hulse”: A letter from a defendant
in a traffic case was audibly perused by
the S.M. at a Victorian court of petty
sessions. The culprit stated that because
of the nature of his work he couldn’t
attend court. “Moreover,” the letter
added, “I must earn more so that I can
keep up my account with the mobile-
traffic division.” Time the traffic-branch
went into business with “Low deposit,
balance on easy terms.”
“Myall”: Talking of railway slogans
(B. 10/4/’57): Some years ago, the
Queensland commissioner approved:
“Use the railways ; you own them.” A
character caught travelling without a
ticket argued with the magistrate that it
was quite legal because the railway-
department advertised that he owned
them, and should he be forced to pay for
the use of something that was his? His
Worship didn’t view the offence in that
light, but inflicted only a nominal fine.
The slogan was quickly dropped after that
incident, but whether for legal reasons or
because it confused public relations I
don’t know.
& * *:♦
“W.P.T.”: A girl singer during a radio
amateur-show was asked what her boy-
friend did for a living. She replied that
he was in the Audience Corps.
*> ♦:< ♦:*
“Miss M.”: Well I remember those
oyster-colored horrors mentioned by
“Sister Ellell” (B. 27/3/’57), and the
peculiar shocking-pink they went after
being washed. But we didn’t call them
“dee-dees.” During the greater part of
the war Army Sisters bought their own
clothes and uniforms in civilian shops.
Our coupon-issue was much smaller than
that of civilians, and by ’43 we were
feeling the pinch. So we welcomed the
news that the Q.M. would replace some
of our tattered finery (upon production)
with new ones. First of our lot to receive
the issue burst in upon her tent-mates
crying dramatically, “Look at the lovely
scanties Mr. Forde gave me!” There-
after even the Q.-staff called them “Mr.
Forde’s panties.”


POLITICAL POINTS
It’s still a toss-up whether Cahill’s
Opera House Lottery will be hatched or
scratched.
• •
Evatt’s statement to caucus that
Federal Labor will support the Duggan
Labor party in Queensland falls into the
category of the “Dog Bites Man” story.
Now if he’d offered a friendly hand to
Gair, that would have been a story.
• •
At the request of several Premiers
the Loan Council meeting will
be held earlier this year, most
likely on May 23. Last year’s talks
took place at the end of June, with a
special conference on wage-problems in
August. The earlier date won't mean
any more money for the States, but it
will enable them to plan their Budgets
with more certainty than in previous
years.
• •
As Queensland rep. at the Loan
Council, Gair will be speaking for a
minority Government which is most
unlikely to have the spending of the
money allocated to his State. Perhaps he
should take Nicklin and Duggan along
as understudies.
• • -
Queensland Parliament will reassemble
on June 11. The Administrator, Mr.
Justice Mansfield, made this decision after
considering a request from Opposition-
leaders Nicklin and Morris and listening
to the advice of Premier Gair.
Next question is when will the election
be held. Gair’s tactics are to postpone
the evil day as long as possible, and he’s
pleading the difficulties of getting the
electoral rolls completed at short notice.
Opposition parties point out that this
didn’t present any difficulties last year
when Gair advanced, the date of the
election in order to steal a march on
the Q.C.E.
• •
Sir Douglas Copland, who coined the
phrase “milk-bar economy” six years ago
to describe Australia’s economic position,
is now wishing he hadn’t. At least, he’s
convinced that it is no longer a true
description, but fears _that the outside
world thinks it is. He* told the Plastics
Institute in Melbourne that it was time
we started telling the world of our indus-
trial progress since 1951 and the extent
to which we have taxed ourselves in
recent years to pay for development.
Copland says this is not understood
abroad and that the way to get support
from overseas is to preach a positive
approach to problems of development
and to believe in it ourselves. “We must
prove to the world that Australia is a
good bet.”
• •
N. S. Wales and Victoria are to make
a joint approach to the Federal Govern-
ment on the latest proposal for a uniform
rail-link between Sydney and Melbourne.
Main objective—apart from getting Can-
berra to stand a fair whack of the cost —
is to get earliest priority for the job.
• •
Applications for War Service homes
outstanding at the end of March totalled
20,184, Senator Spooner told the Senate
last week. Of these 10,767 were from
applicants in N. S. Wales and 4881 from
Victoria. On past experience about 60
per cent, of these could be expected to
become effective. Present waiting-time for
finance was about 15 months.
• •
Singapore City Council is to try out
in its reservoirs the Mansfield process
for reducing evaporation. The city
engineer hopes the process will rob the
sun of 1,300,000 gallons a day, with a
consequent saving of £3500 a month.
• •
Kevin Gregson, secretary of the Vic-
torian branch of the Amalgamated
Society of Carpenters and Joiners, has
written to Wall-street organisations ask-
ing for a million-dollar loan to finance a
scheme for building houses for sale to the
public.
The branch, seeking the cash outside
Australia because of the lack of it for
housing inside, wants to build at first
150 minimum-cost houses to sell at a
small .profit and then to branch into a
permanent building scheme.
• •
After a longwinded diatribe by Rowley
James, M.H.R. for Hunter, Evatt
jumped to the old coalminer’s defence and
demanded that Fadden should answer his
colleague’s question. “Give the House
an explanation for your absence from the
miners’ convention when an invitation
was extended to you?” said the Doc.
Fadden rose slowly and glared. “My
explanation for my non-attendance is that
I was absent,” he snapped. Even the
Labor backbench enjoyed the joke.
• •
“Stromlo”: Reports of Menzies’s un-
pleasant air-trip recalled one from
Launceston to Essendon just after the
end of the war. The plane was a DCS, a
high-wing Douglas which had been flown
out of Java early in the war, and still had
the war-time tin seats around the walls of
the cabin. The plane was full, and as we
came down to land at Essendon the
pilot suddenly zoomed-up again and for
half-an-hour over the suburbs wrestled
with the landing-wheels, without getting
the signal-light that they were firmly in
position. Some of the passengers started
to get a' bit panicky, and everyone was
feeling a little glum. In an attempt to
ease the tension, I asked Menzies if he’d
like to write a farewell message to the
nation, which I’d ask the crew to throw
out. His answer was admirably terse —-
“No.” In similar circumstances Billy
Hughes would probably have told me to
jump out and deliver the blithering
message myself.
• •
Maltby, Victorian Minister for Public
Works: “There should be a special tax
on all motor-tyres, collected from manu-
facturers and importers for distribution
to the States for road-works.”
Here, take the thing. We’ll walk.
• •
“Lobby”: Even though Australia is
well on the right side of the sales ledger
with New Zealand our zealous Trade
Department officials are pressing strongly
for a fair go on Customs discrimination.
It seems that the Kiwis, anxious to
make the most out of a one-way deal,
base their Customs charges on Australian
goocjs on the value in Australian currency,
although the duty has to be paid in N.Z.
currency. The practice adds 25 per cent,
to the Customs bill.
• •
From Canberra:
The grapevine reports that the 1957-58 Budget
may see a soitening of the Treasury heart in its
relations with State authorities. There’s a good
chance that a big-hearted Federal Government
may decide to allow municipal shires and
councils to levy rate? on Commonwealth
property. - '
Since Federation the Commonwealth has
declared its various buildings, and properties
exempt from local taxes. Putting itself on the
same basis as other property-owners would
mean a pay-out of about £2 million in a year in
rates.
Joske’s uniform-divorce bill seems to have
become too hot to handle, and both the
Government and the Opposition are content to
leave it that way for a while. Quite apart from
the legal pros and cons, the biggest threat to
the bill’s passage is a claim by Clyde Cameron,
Labor M.H.R. for Hindmarsh (S.A.), that it is
“loaded” against women. He warns that this
could be politically damaging in an election
campaign; any party which supported the bill
in its present form would have to shoulder the
blame for any victimisation. Cameron convinced
his Parliamentary colleagues that Government
and Opposition would be equally guilty if they
allowed the bill to go through on a non-party
vote, as this would imply tacit approval.
A joint departmental committee, comprising
representatives of Social Services, Labor and
National Service and Treasury, is preparing a
report on the retiring-age, with special emphasis
on whether it should be extended from 65 to 70
years.
The question presents a knotty political
problem; legislation for a higher retiring-age
would mean withholding the age-pension from
thousands and Labor would accuse the Govern-
ment of turning back the social-justice clock
by forcing elderly people to work almost to
their deathbeds.
Still, most members on, both sides of the
House who have gone into the question see a
good deal of merit in extending the age where
possible. v
Social Services Minister Roberton believes
that the system in which aYi arbitrary authority
forces people out of ap active, useful life leads,
in many instances, to premature mental and
physical decay.
However, there’s good ground for Believing
the departmental report won’t get past the
Cabinet room. Some senior Ministers think
the idea is too much of a hot potato.


Although no date can yet be fixed for
the Queensland election all parties are
getting a move on with their preparations.
Gair is to address a public meeting in
Rockhampton on Fridhy to “state the
Government case,” and on Sunday he’ll
broadcast over a State-wide network.
The Q.C.E. is calling for nominations for
all 75 seats; closing date, June 1. Gair
Labor will contest about 60 seats. Oppo-
sition parties will put up candidates for
most seats, but will possibly not contest
those held by Independents.
• •
Hearing of the High Court challenge
to uniform-taxation was concluded on
Thursday. Judgment v/as reserved.
• •
Eisenhower and Montgomery spent
the weekend refighting the battle of
Gettysburg. At least, that’s what the
report said, but unless Monty has changed
a lot since Ike last saw him it’s a safe
bet he fired a few shots of more recent
ammunition than was used in the Civil
War.
• •
Tasmanian Premier Cosgrove’s refusal
to obey the State A.L.P. executive’s order
to restore quarterly adjustments on the
wages of Government employees has led
to speculation whether the Queensland
split is to be repeated in Tassie. On past
history it shouldn’t be. Cosgrove has
taken an independent line before and
got away with it. Furthermore, Tas-
manian Parliamentary Labor has com-
monly shown a disinclination to become
entangled in mainland Labor squabbles.
• •
On Friday a writ was issued in the
Brisbane Supreme Court on the applica-
tion of J. Schmella, secretary of the
Q.C.E., and J. Duggan, leader of the
official Labor party in the Queensland'
Parliament, against Premier Gair. The
writ claims that Gair is a trustee for the
two claimants and other members of the
Queensland A.L.P. of all moneys
received by him on behalf of the A.L.P.
It asks that Gair shall tender an account
of such moneys and that the balance due
shall be handed over to Schmella as secre-
tary of the Q.C.E. An injunction is being
sought to restrain Gair from using any
of the moneys held or received by him
as trustee.
Earlier a spokesman for the Q.C.E.
referred to these “moneys” as a slush
fund. Now, apparently they’re eager to
get their hands into the slush.
• •
Tea dropped 3d. a pound on Monday.
This may or may not be connected with
the granting of a licence to a Melbourne
dealer to import China tea to sell at ss.
a pound.
• «
There’s a lot of hypocrisy about the
N. S. Wales law which makes it a penal
offen.ce for a newspaper to accept an
advertisement for a lottery domiciled in
another State. Last week Truth and
Sportsman, Ltd., was fined a total of
£lO,BOO on 54 charges of having pub-
lished advertisements for the Tasmanian
lottery. Other Sydney papers have also
been prosecuted. When these laws were
introduced years ago ail lotteries were
illegal and the law had a moral justifi-
cation. Nowadays its only purpose is to
protect the N. S. Wales State Lottery from
outside competition.
•' •
Four rank-and-filers are to represent
the Labor party as invited tourists in Red
China, the Doc. being unavailable for
selection as he’ll be in London for a
conference of British Commonwealth
Labor leaders. Saner elements in the
A.L.P. are breathing more freely at the
thought that if Bert doesn’t go to Peking
he can’t drop any bricks there.
• •
After the N. S. Wales Labor caucus
had approved Cahill’s scheme for financ-
ing the Opera House, Seiffert, M.L.A. for
Monaro, gave notice that he intended
to move a rescission motion, on the
ground that housing should come first.
It was next reported that the decision
would be left to the State A.L.P. confer-
ence next month. Now Cahill says this
is wrong; conference will “probably”
discuss the proposal but he doesn’t expect
it to pass a motion. By all the indications
the conference will have bigger issues
than the Opera House to get its teeth
and claws into.
Pearce, M.L.A. for Capricornia (Q.),
went into the prophesying business in
Canberra when he told the Opposition
that nine of its members would be
“purged” before the next Federal election.
Those on the list were Stewart (Lang,
N.S.W.), Daly (Grayndler, N.S.W.),
Luchetti (Macquarie, N.S.W.), Minogue
(West Sydney, N.S.W.), O’Connor
(Dailey, N.S.W.), Galvin (Kingston,
S.A.); Beazley (Fremantle, W.A.);
Coutts (Griffith, Q.) and Riordan
(Kennedy, Q.).
• ©
Indonesian spokesmen say their
country’s claim to West New Guinea is
based on legalistic grounds, yet, as Percy
Spender pointed out when the subject was
last being discussed at U.N., they don’t
seem anxious to have the legal aspect
tested. When Holland suggested taking
the dispute to the International Court of
Justice, Indonesia refused. Spender told
the U.N. delegates:
We must ask ourselves very seriously
why Indonesia so refused. After all, if a
country is seriously putting forward a
claim based on grounds of which it says
that a central one, at least, is legality, why
does it refuse to submit its claim to
adjudication by the responsible international
judicial organ? Surely the only answer
can be that Indonesia has never itself been
convinced that it has any legal claim, and
has feared —as I suppose it still fears—that
its so-called ground of legality with regard
to its claim to Netherlands New Guinea
would not get very far it submitted to me
International Court.
Q. M. S.
DEFENCE "NEW LOOK"


Where's €s
to suit YOU!
Whenever you travel, wherever you travel, there’s always a
TAA VISCOUNT flight to suit you. For your convenience,
TAA operates daily round-the-clock Viscount flights, between
all states. From as far north as Cairns, to Hobart in the south, • _
right across the nation to Perth in the west, you can fly TAA Viscount.
fgd
~/Ae friendly way
Reservations: TAA Booking Offices in all States or any authorised Travel Agent.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Harold Breen, a true public servant and
empire-builder in the modern tradition,
retired from the secretaryship of the
Defence Production Department last
week, and 8.H.P., the public service,
General Motors, and similar admiring
bodies —150 of them —turned up in Mel-
bourne to press on him gifts and kind
words. Minister for Supply Beale, who
was one of those present to have a drink
with him, hinted at Breen’s part in bring-
ing to greater strength many industrial
undertakings. (According to Melbourne
industrialists these were, chiefly, the
cellulose industry, which is vital in war,
the automotive industry, and rayon, now
so widely used in the cord-tyre industry.)
He had been secretary of the department
for six years, and earned wide support
from manufacturers. Harry Breen, who
had been a public servant since he was
18, retired at 64, a year before his time,
because of ill-health ; he will live in the
rapidly expanding old-age State,
Queensland.
• #
Major-General lan Ross Campbell,
C.8.E., D.S.O. and Bar, who recently
retired from the posting of Commandant
of the Royal Military College, Duntroon,
is now honorary Colonel of the 30th
Infantry Battalion, C.M.F.
0 0
W. I. Miskoe, managing-director of
Lincoln Electric’s Australian company,
is slim, dark, and has a sort of a con-
trolled intensity when he is talking about
incentive - payments and managerial
efficiency which is very impressive ; he’s
been in Australia for 17 years, but hasn’t lost
his American accent, and he has the conversa-
tional trick of dressing theory in concrete
examples. Lecturers who can do this usually
have attentive audiences (H. J. Geddes, up at
Sydney University, is a good example), and
no doubt a scheme such as the one successfully
operated by Lincoln Electric called for a good
deal of educational talking, at least in the
beginning; but, applied to oneself, the effect
can be disconcerting. - In at The Bulletin
office the other day, for instance, he waved
his hand at interviewer and suggested —purely
hypothetically—that this particular journalist
mightn’t be working as hard as he should: cut
his hypothetical bonus. There are two aspects
to an efficient incentive-payment scheme. It
must, in Miskoe’s words, “be cold-bloodedly
fair.”
Trained as a civil engineer, Miskoe joined
the parent-company (which, last year, distributed
$7,200,000 among 1300 employees in outright
bonuses, and put another $BOO,OOO into an
annuity-fund: total bonus-payments $8 million)
in 1933 ; now, he says, he can’t imagine run-
ning an efficient business any other way.
Employees in the Australian company take home
30 per cent, to 100 per cent, above their award-
INCENTIVES
wages weekly, and receive an annual bonus,
which is a fixed percentage of gross profits.
Asked if this bonus (as distinct from the
weekly incentive-pay) was distributed on the
basis of salary, he said, emphatically, “That
would kill it.” Individual payments are worked
out on a points-system (“Sounds conjplicated,
but it’s simple to apply”); points are given for
such things as output, quality, skill required,
value of work done to the company, and
number of days worked out of a possible total.
The company’s main products are arc-weld-
ing equipment; it exports to eight countries, and
when the new factory is built at Padstow, Sydney,
it is planned to increase exports. At the end
of five years, Miskoe said, he expected that 50
per cent, of the new factory’s output would be
for the export-market.
• •
Dr. Donald Metcalf, who announced
in Chicago the discovery of a new
hormone which could result in a.cure for
blood-cancer, is a young Sydney scientist
who, his Melbourne friends say, has been
fascinated by cancer-research since his
student-days. Metcalf’s discovery was
made in Melbourne. (It is an indication,
in the' simplest lay terms, of how the
mechanism of one type of blood-cell may
go wrong.) He was invited to the Walter
and Eliza Hall research-unit at the
Royal Melbourne Hospital by Sir Mac-
farlane Burnett, and worked there for
two years. His trip to the U.S., under
the Cardent Fellowship administered by
the Anti-Cancer Council of Victoria, was
made to interest the Americans in his
new approach to blood-cancer. He has,
though, made further advances with his
discovery at the Harvard Medical School
in Boston.
• •
“Maitri”: Passed on at Wahroonga
(N.S.W.), a couple of days after her 95th
birthday, Elizabeth Welsh, widow of
Professor D. A. Welsh. Professor Welsh,
who was in the Chair of Pathology, at
Sydney University for many years, is still
remembered with gratitude by ex-Service-
men for whom he obtained Repatriation
benefits after a careful investigation
of their medical history. Pathology seems
to have run in the family: Mrs. Welsh’s
brother, Sir Robert Muir, of Edinburgh
(likewise a nonagenarian), is world-
famous as a pathologist —his Pathology
has had a record number of editions, and
is still a standard textbook. A sister was
Scotland’s distinguished painter of
flower-pieces. Elizabeth Welsh will be


missed by writers, artists, and musicians,
who have reason to be grateful for her
kindly (and often exceedingly practical)
encouragement during their struggling
days. Daughter of a Presbyterian mini-
ster, she spent her youth in the Scottish
Border country ; her memories of those
days were reminiscent of the poems of
Will H. Ogilvie, whom she knew. To
the end she was vitally interested in the
activities and difficulties of young people.
She leaves a son, Dr. Arthur Muir Welsh,
whose wife, Dr. Fanny Witts, was one
of his father’s outstanding students.
• •
Sydney firms and individuals, many of
them with only an academic knowledge
of either angels or sailors, have been
getting letters headed with' the flying-
angel device of the Missions to Seamen,
signed by Rear-Admiral G. D. Moore,
C.8.E., the State chairman. It is part
of the N.S.W. Missions to Seamen War
Memorial Appeal, to celebrate the cen-
tenary of the world-wide society, and
already the State Government has come
good with £2so®, the City of Sydney with
another £5OO. Senior chaplain Colin
Craven-Sands (herewith) says the society
wants £50,000, and that donations are
allowable income-tax deductions.
The Queen is the society’s patron, the
Duke of Edinburgh is president, Sir John
Northcott is the N.S.W. patron. There
are three stations in N.S.W. —Sydney,
Newcastle, and Port Kembla. In all these,
of course, and in ports throughout the
world, the chaplains play an important
part. Rev. Craven-Sands is 44, Aus-
tralian, studied at London University and
Munich University, and was a Navy
chaplain for five years, in H.M.A.S.
Australia. A versatile chap, he is presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Fencing Association,
was an official at the Olympic Games in
Melbourne, and appears weekly on TV
—as Sandy in “Captain Fortune,” on
ATN. Next Wednesday (May 22), at
8 p.m., the annual meeting will be held
MISSIONS TO SEAMEN
at the Rawson Institute, 100 George-
street. “We want lots of visitors to come
and hear about our work,” Craven-Sands
said.
• •
William Edward (Ted) Lee is the new
chairman and managing-director of Birt
and Company, the shipping and airways
agent—the fourth since 1899. Sir Owen
Cox was in the chair until late in 1929,
SHIPS
Sir Thomas Gordon (War II Director of
Shipping) was there from 1930 to 1948,
when A. G. Potter (chairman of the
A.J.C.) took-over. The company’s build-
ing, No. 4 Bridge-street, Sydney, is
a landmark in that interesting part of the
city ; built in 1914, it was Sydney’s first
reinforced-concrete building. Ted Lee is
56, was born in Cobar (but only lived
there about six months, his family moving
to Lithgow, where he worked for a time
in the small-arms factory), and joined
the firm 36 years ago. He was with the
Ministry of War Transport from 1940
to 1944, working under his peace-time
chief, Sir Thomas Gordon, then went to
Washington (1944-46) to represent the
Australian Government in shipping
matters —procurement of ships, shipping
war-supplies, and the like. His outside
interests include golf, Rotary, the Aus-
tralian-American Association, the Insti-
tute of Transport, and the Belgian
Chamber of Commerce (vice-president);
he was also on the council of the Sydney
Chamber of Commerce for some years.
• •
Canon H. K. Vickery, of Auckland
(N.Z.), who is 72, has called it a day
after 47 years with the Missions to Sea-
men. A native of Ararat (Vic.), the canon
joined the organisation in Melbourne, in
1909, served two years in World War I,
and later became chaplain in Newcastle,
in 1918. For his war-time work with
French naval units was made a Chevalier
of the Legion of Honor. Went to Auck-
land, same job, in 1928, and in World
War II was chaplain on the New Zealand
hospital-ship Maunganui. He put in 36
years as chaplain with the Royal Naval
Volunteer Reserves in Australia and
N.Z., relieving in Singapore, Colombo,
Adelaide and Melbourne.
• •
“Curio”: Anglican clergy are not
always obliged to retire at 70 (B.
17/4/’57), for nine Australian bishops are
past this age already ; the eldest, Bishop
Dixon (Bishop-Coadjutor of Brisbane),
was born in 1869. Membership of a.
clergy provident fund allows clergy to
retire at 65 in some cases, but in others
contributors are obliged to wait until the
three-score-and-ten is reached. But, in
N.S.W. anyway,, retirement is not
obligatory. In any case, the Australian
bishops are well behind the Very Rev.
E. H. Lewis-Crosby (Dean of Christ
Cathedral, Dublin), who at 92 is the oldest
Anglican dean. It is interesting to note
that the recently enthroned Archbishop,
the Most Rev. G. O. Sims, who at 46 is
the youngest Anglican archbishop, is
exactly half the age of the dean who
enthroned him. Dublin, incidentally, is
the only Anglican cathedral city with
two cathedrals: Christ Church for the
diocese, and St. Patrick’s as the
‘ national cathedral of the Church of
Ireland.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, Harold L. Tranter, architect
and leading Baptist layman. Specialising in
church architecture, he designed many Baptist
church-buildings.
In Sydney, at 94, Henry Martin Abel, chair-
man of the importing-firm Abel, Lemon and
Co. Pty., Ltd.
At Hobart, at 69, W. W. F. Briggs, M.8.E.,
M.A., Dip. Ed. A Melbourne graduate, he was
foundation principal of Scotch College at
Warwick (Q.) and principal at Launceston
from 1925 to 1950. He retired as vice-principal
last year.
In Sydney, Maurice Mervyn (Tom) Atkins,
secretary from 1931 to 1940 of Randwick Rugby
Union club.
At Wellington (N.Z.), at 75, Charles Ridley
Cooke, newspaper-proprietor in the Waikato
and Thames districts, North Island, and keen
stamp-collector—he won the Pirn Cup. His
son, Professor Cooke of Minneapolis (U.S.A.),
is a famous metallurgist and mining expert.
In Brisbane, at 57, Professor E. C. D.
Ringrose, Director of External Studies at
Queensland University since 1950. He had had
a distinguished teaching career since, in 1920,
becoming science master at Rockhampton
Grammar School.
In Sydney, E. R. Manning, partner in the
firm of Clarence Degenhardt, Manning and
Co., members, of Sydney Stock Exchange. He
won the Military Cross with the Royal Flying
Corps in World War i.
In Melbourne, at 59, Neville Hawthorn
Smith, author and journalist. On the Inky
Way from 1922 to 1951, when he resigned to
join “The Call to the Nation” campaign. He
published two books, a novel and a collection
of children’s stories.
At Otahuhu (N.Z.), at 82, Frederick Stanley
Jackson, who toured New Zealand with the
Anglo-Welsh Rugby team of 1908 and stayed
there. His son, E. S. Jackson, played in the
three Tests against the Springboks in 1937.
At Sale (Vic.), at 50, Ivan Young, father of
star St. Kilda (V.F.L.) full-forward Bill Young.
In Sydney, at 75, Arthur Burley, founder of
Berlei, Ltd. He had been chairman of the
company for many years, resigning recently
because of ill-health.
In Melbourne, ,<t 89, E. J. Brown, former
Mayor of Collingwood. A cricketer in his
youth, he played ag finst W. G. Grace’s England
team in 1886.


ABORIGINALITIES
OPERATION MOONWATCH
TN the U.S.A.’s capital there is an insti-
tution known as the “nation’s attic”
—the Smithsonian Institute, which con-
tains everything from the Wright
brothers’ flying-machine to Abraham
Lincoln’s life-mask. But this organisa-
tion fulfils a much more useful function
than merely storing the country’s knick-
knacks. It is a clearing-house for scientific
information of many kinds.
Which is why the Smithsonian Astro-
physical Observatory has been put in
charge of the optical tracking-programme
of the artificial satellite which the U.S.
will attempt to launch later this year. The
work of observers throughout the world
will have to be co-ordinated so that an
accurate plot of the satellite’s trajectory
round the globe can be drawn.
Right-oh. But what earthly use is it
spending all that money just to get a 20in.
metal sphere floating round in space?
The people organising the International
Geophysical Year —I.G.Y. to you—can
answer that one. Many problems con-
cerning the health and future prosperity
of the earth’s peoples will be solved if we
can find out a lot more about the earth
we live on and the great sea of air at the
bottom of which we are forced to remain.
The Americans’ satellites—and one the
Russians are playing with, too —are the
means of gathering this information.
Some Australians will be playing a
very important part in these observations.
The satellites will be fired from the
Patrick Air Force base in Florida at an
angle of about 35deg. to the Equator.
This means that they will pass over Aus-
tralia at about Latitude 31deg. S. —the
latitude of Woomera. And at Woomera
are the highly trained Australian observers
and technicians capable of producing
accurate records of the “moon’s” path.
There are other reasons why Woomera
has been chosen as the ideal spot from
which to observe these tiny objects. The
atmosphere is very clear and dry and is
free of the distractions caused by city
flights ; the community is very compact,
making the assembly of observers at odd
hours of the night a simple job ; and
rapid communications already exist be-
tween Woomera and Washington.
YAfHY is visual observation . necessary
. when the satellites will be equipped
with very efficient radio devices and will be
tracked by the amazing Minitrack radar
system? Well, the satellite’s power-supply
will consist of batteries with a life of
about two weeks, and they might stay
up there for months. Then again, even
batteries with regular maintenance on the
earth’s surface give trouble occasionally,
and nobody has a clue what goes on 500
miles above.
If you have good eyes and live out in
the country, and you happen to be look-
ing in the right direction an hour before
sunrise or an hour after sunset, you might
see one of these heavenly ping-pong balls.
But your chances are slim. It will travel
as fast as a shooting-star, but won’t be
anywhere near as bright—about equal to
a seventh-magnitude star. The satellites
will take 100 minutes to circumnavigate
the globe ; they will take five minutes to
cross Australia.
The people at Woomera have much
better chances of seeing the objects, and
here’s how they’ll do it.
A surveyor will draw up a line running
precisely north and south. Along this
line will be seated 30 observers with
binoculars, each pair of binoculars locked
on a 7deg. slice of sky along the
north-south line. The observers will be
quite close together and near a radio
which will maintain- contact with the
international timing-station, WWVH, at
Honolulu. This is so that the observers
are in close contact with each other and
so that the time of the satellite’s passage
can be pinned down to the nearest tenth
of a second, Greenwich time. Observations
will be made in the twilight hours because
then the sky is darkest and high-flying
objects are brightest. Chances of spotting
the satellites are, under this system,
assessed as fair. And the information that
the flying moon has been sighted is use-
less unless the exact time is known.
But the unpaid technicians who will get
up at two in the morning and sit per-
fectly still out in the cold for two hours
day after day gazing at a single patch of
sky will reckon it’s worth it. The U.S.
has 12 of these satellites under construc-
tion,. and American scientists will be quite
happy if only one is successful. The in-
formation gained, correlated with the
findiiigs of the other partners in the
1.G.Y., will be invaluable in future
research into Nature’s mysteries.
BURR IMUL.
A FIJIAN rigged-up a beam and pulley
at the top of a building to mend the
roof, and hoisted the bricks up in a couple
of barrels. Having finished the job he
hoisted the barrel up, secured the rope
at the bottom, then filled the barrel with
the left-over bricks. He went down and
cast off the line, but, as the bricks were
heavier than ke, the barrel came down
and he went up, hurting his shoulder on
the barrel on the way past. When he
reached the top he banged his head on
the beam and jammed his fingers in the
pulley. The bottom of the barrel broke
when it hit the ground and spilled out the
bricks. The Fijian then descended at
some speed, barking his shins on the way
past the barrel. He landed on the sharp
bricks, getting some painful cuts, and
in his confusion let go the rope. The
barrel fell on bis head. He applied for
leave. —“Q. Ree.”
* * * *
“Apemantus”: Your dog, too, may
need tranquillising-pills. They won’t stop
him. chasing cars, but they will counter-
balance tke frustrating loss of self-
confidence caused by not catching ’em.


V
t h<\v£ wy
&£*r ruZNZp (Zcunp,
PlcaSS? i fomyg
' ukz to Sir
F/KC/NO THfc
£NOinS . /


“Darcy”: Saw a dog high in the
branches of a tea-tree and howling mourn-
fully. I thought it was stuck in this pre-
carious position, but it transpired that it
was trying to reach a cat crouching on the
topmost branch. While I watched it
jumped down several times, then leapt,
scrambled and clawed its way up the tree
towards its quarry. Its owner assured me
that it terrorises all the neighborhood
cats by such uncanine tactics.
* * * *
\
“Jabini”: The old cow bellowed in
protest as three yapping dogs chased her
in circles. The cocky yelled, but his voice
was lost in the uproar. When at last he
had brought the dogs to heel he gritted:
“If’s all push-button now, boy!"
“If a bloke’s got one, he’s got a dog:
if he has two, he’s got half a dog ; three,
he ain’t got a dog at all!”
* * * *
“Retired Bagman”: At least the term
“ringer,” which everybody has been dis-
cussing, is a local one, which is more
than can be said for “outfit,” “rustlers,”
and “top hand,” all of which are coming
into regular use in journals which should
know better.
* * * *
“Phillida”: No one could tell cook
anything when she volunteered to cook
the eel. Later there was a piercing scream
and a thud from the kitchen ; cook and
the eel lay side-by-side on the floor, the
cook in a dead faint. She had put the
eel, whole and intact, in boiling fat, its
muscles had contracted in the heat, and
it had leaped straight out of the pan as if
alive.
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: More and more of
the “blessings” of civilisation are being
enjoyed by the New Guinea natives.
Now, with the sale or supply of intoxi-
cating liquor to natives prohibited, it is
reported that many of them are seeking
consolation (or something) in the con-
sumption of metho. New control-
measures have been brought into force
which now require natives to get permits
from District Officers for each individual
purchase of metho. The buyers will have
to say whether they want the stuff for
domestic-lighting or -heating (which
doesn’t include interior combustion), or
for business purposes.
* * * •
“Boofhead”: Bufus marinus, the giant-
toad that was put out of a job when
gammexane was introduced to combat
the cane-beetle, still has a useful role as
agent for a four-hour pregnancy-test.
Quite a number of N.Q. doctors keep a
few male toads handy for quick diagnosis.
1 undertook to provide a few toads for
my doc., but all of 20 I caught were
females. Mr. Bufus is shy, and, with the
ladies outnumbering him twenty to one,
is evidently reluctant to show his face at
nights.
* * * *
“Stromlo”: All this talk of what
migrants expect and don’t expect to find
here stems back to the ideas they’re given
before they decide to emigrate. In the
U.S. recently I was talking on Australia
when a grizzled old gent, rudely
interrupted. “All this is all right,” he
remarked, in a drawling Yankee twang,
“but tell us what’s wrong with Australia.”
So I thereupon devoted some time to
rabbits and politicians and a few
other less-desirable aspects of the
Australian scene, and everybody was
happy.
* # * *
“Woonulla”: What about yet another
move towards more imaginative place-
names? Too many new towns are called
“Smithton” or “McGillicuddy” after
some more-or-less temporarily-famous
native son. How much more pleasing are
euphonious aborigine, names (Dulby-
dilla, Nimmitabel), or those quaint titles
with a magic all their own. Examples
that come to mind are Nevertire and
Come-by-Chancej beloved of the ballad-
ists ; also Tailem Bend (S.A.), the Jump-
ing Sandhills, Walls of China, Colly
Blue, Terry-Hie-Hie and Tumbledown
' Dick (N.S.W.), Bogong High Plains and
Mt. Feathertop (Vic.), Jumpinpin (Q.),
Humpty Doo (N.T.). Is the invention of
such names a lost art?
* * * *
“D.A.L.”: Blackdown, north of
Bathurst, has had only three owners in
the 134 years since it was granted to
Thomas Hawkins in 1823 —one of the
original land grants in that part of N.S.W.
The Hawkins family sold the property
to Henry Rotton in 1852. In 1884 it was
acquired by J. N. Gilmour, and subse-
quently passed by deed of gift to R. L.
Gilmour ; the homestead-block is still
owned by the Gilmour family. When
part of the property was sold recently,
bidding for 1054 acres reached £36 per
acre. This area was then submitted in
two blocks. One—B26 acres —was bought
by H. T. Thompson, of Bathurst, for
£34 10s. per acre ; the remaining section
of 228 acres was passed in for private
sale.
* * * *
“Myall": Yet another odd way in
which a fire can get away. Lunch-time
at harvesting and the billy was boiled in
a kerosene-tin brazier, set in the adjoin-
ing -ploughed field as a safeguard against
file. A willy-willy raced across the field,
picked up the brazier and deposited it in
the wheatfield. Twenty acres of standing
wheat—about 250 bags —went up in
smoke.
EGRETS IN AUTUMN
Tall grasses ripening in the open fields
With dry sweet perfume scent the golden
air.
Cool autumn triumphs as the summer
yields
Where the lone willow waves her flowing
hair
And swaying rushes catch the morning
light.
Wind-ruffled waters in a frame of green
Flash a bright welcome to the birds of
white
Whose coming will complete the autumn
scene.
Down from the heavens lazily they slide,
A flock of snowflakes on the morning
breeze.
With slow and careless grace they turn
and glide
To settle on the dead arms of the trees
Or, planing to the water’s edge below.
Like slim white statues motionless they
stand,
Slender and beautiful as sculptured snow,
The perfect ones, the lovely egret-band.
QUEENSLAND.
G. MAKIN.


The word
for Brandy
since 1858
\
1 -
' l/’,
??*<-: / ■ SPECIAL HOSPIT
wW?W%
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
fgd
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
TBT.4C.tS
fdg
fgd
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON l| PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER RD., ESSENDON. VICTORIA
IN the dairy after milking the boys were
skylarking around the New Australian
when their father said, “Now, George,
stand no nonsense from these lads.”
George slowly undid his belt, and flour-
• h w tnrmpntnrs “Ya i Ya >
• , , • 11 k. vpci?”
u >, j° ,5 out Lll,
’ brawled old Bob Irom e c .
Fm* won 1 be^ able to cnase em, will
y 7” “Paddy G.”
* * * . *
“Kiwi”: Was having a very indifferent
trot out shooting the dog being unable to
raise a single bird. Then I heard a lot
of shooting a few miles off and worked
in that direction. I found a lad with no
game-licence, and a borrowed gun and
four nice plump White Leghorn cockerels
in his bag. They re flying round like
hawks over there, mister, he told me,
enthusiastically. . I advised him to light
out for the horizon before the near-by
farmer counted his prize birds.
* * *
“Macquarie”: Balsa is almost certainly
the quickest-growing of all commercial
timbers, but cigar-box cedar, another
South American tree, must qualify for
second place with a measured growth of
160 ft in height and sft. in diameter in
20 years. Inferior to our red-cedar, of
course, it is yet excellent for the purpose
to which it is put. Within 15 years Aus-
trahan-grown cigar-box cedar will be pro-
minent in our export-cargoes, due to the
foresight of a Danish migrant named
Stevns who, coming to Australia six
y ears ago, saw the possibilities for this
cet jar in Northern Australia and New
Guinea, and imported seed from Ecuador.
The trees are flourishing.
« N imrod”: There’s nothing like the
nam£S of old _ time goldmines to reflect
the news of the day. Searching through
the W.A. Mines Department Report for
j was struc k b y these: Two
Federals as well as one Federation and
a Referendum, which told of the domestic
interest in the new Commonwealth
Government, Australian ties with the
South African war produced a General
Roberts, two Mafekings, and, right up
jnmute, f wo Spion Kops, com-
memorating the battle fought on January
24-25, 1900. Foreign affairs were recalled
by both a Dreyfus and a Dreyfus Release,
while unhappy Oireland, besides all the
Shamrocks and Tipperarys, was remem-
bered in the Parnell mine. The World’s
Fair reminded one of events in Chicago
about that time, and The Absent Minded
Beggar could have come from the literary
section.
* * * *
Connewarre : In Rangoon, watching
some black birds about the size or
magpies fluttering at the eaves of a city
building, I asked U Maung Maung what
they were. When he said they were crows,
I remarked: “Our Australian crows are
bigger than those, and don’t fly round
city buildings..” “But your crows are
different in other ways, aren't they?”
only had white crows in Australia,
* * * *
rVNE night, while I was camped under
the stars, my blue-heeler was un-
usually taciturn. At last he broke
silence: “Say, Boss, you have a pint-pot
with exactly half-a-pint of rum in it, and
another pint-pot with exactly half-a-pint
of water in it. You take a spoonful of
the rum and put it in the pot of water.
Then you take a spoonful of the mixture
and put it in the rum. Now Which pro-
portion is greater—the rum in the pot of
water, or the water in the pot of rum?”
He never told me the answer, and I’ve
drunk a lot of rum trying to work it out.
—“Ranger.”


REGISTERED
first
mortgage
debenture
STOCK
OTHER TERMS
AVAILABLE
3 MONTHS TO
20 YEARS
SEE
PROSPECTUS
Fixed quarterly Income free of
exchange.
Principal paid in full on maturity.
Principal paid in full before
maturity in certain circumstances
refer Prospectus.
The largest asset backing of all
finance companies in Australia.
Assets exceed £40,000,009.
Underwriting Brokers to the issue)
lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne,
Sydney and Canberra.
Trustee for the Debenture Stock*
holders: The Perpetual Executors
& Trustees Association of Australia
Limited.
Requests for a Prospectus may be made to
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES and all Branches of the £.S. & A. BANS
LIMITED, NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA Ltd., and
Australia’s Leading Hire Purchase Organisation
16,3
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATIONLIMITEP
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE AUcLniUc Wirt r.OiiAKi
Business, Robbery, Etc.
The Natrona! Outlook
"OROVIDED stability in the
-*■ economy is maintained,
Sir Arthur Fadden (in tabling
the Government’s second
annual economic survey
entitled “1957 and Beyond”)
said that Australia could look
forward to a period of continu-
ing prosperity and progress.
The survey itself speaks of the
necessity for Australia to gear
her expansion to her resources,
and stresses that it would be
far better ,to concentrate
resources on industries which
offer a high return of product
for effort employed or capital
invested than to spread them
widely over less hopeful
projects.
Australia should be an
attractive field for overseas
investment, but recurrent bursts
of inflation, with rising costs,
will not be likely to advance
our standing with investors
seeking sound industrial oppor-
tunities.
The survey adds: “We are
likely to get more done and
do it better if we recognise the
need to work within the limita-
tions of our resources.” Aus-
tralia’s increasing overseas
reserves are not considered
adequate to withstand a pro-
longed excess of imports
arising from an inflationary
demand within Australia.
There were serious defici-
encies in land and sea trans-
port, electric power and other
facilities.
Population of Australia is
expected to reach 10,700,000
by 1962 and 12 million by
1967. Although this rate of
increase will be slightly smaller
than that of the decade
3947-57, the survey says that
“it will still be a considerable
feat of expansion, since, to
cope with it, the economy
will have to expand com-
mensurately.”
“Vigoromsiy Selective”
ACTIVITY in Australian
sharemarkets continues to
centre around high-class stocks.
A.C.I. rose last week to a new
record -of 635. 6d. following
Melbourne rumors of a bonus-
issue; Burns Philp went to
625. 6d. again on reports of
better profits; British Tobacco
moved up strongly to 365. 6d.;
Repco jumped from 48s. to
565. on announcement of a
one-for-two bonus-issue; and
Australian Gypsum went to
51s. 6d., after sales at 445.
prior to the bonus - issue
announcement.
Metal shares were generally
lower following the fall in
London metal prices.
An assortment of well-
known concerns which have
suffered trading reverses in
recent months continue on offer
at well under par—Carpet
Manufacturers (155.), Lustre
Hosiery (11s. 9d.), General
industries (16s. 6d.), Thirlwell
and McKenzie (11s. 9d.), C.C.
Engineering (145.), C.C. Die-
casting (145.), Brown and
Dureau (Bs. 9d.), Australian
National Industries (3s. 3d.)
and Malcolm Moore Industries
(145.). President Consolidated
£1 ords. are now a threepenny
touch.
Credit Policy
pROM the press-release made
by Dr. Coombs, governor
of the central bank, on May
7, it would appear that, not-
withstanding the spectacular
improvement in the balance of
payments, there will be little
or no easing of the prevailing
credit-restriction in Australia
in the immediate future. Rather
the improved overseas trading
position is taken as a potential
inflationary force, and whilst in
Canberra the Government has
decided to let in imports to the
extent of an extra £75 million
a year, the central bank has
decided on no “overall relaxa-
tion in credit policy,” even if
the squeeze is not to be
accentuated.
The text of the Common-
wealth Bank’s announcement
shows that it has recently had
discussions with the major
trading banks about current
economic conditions and bank-
lending policy.
It has informed the banks
that in its view the Australian
economy appears to have
moved towards a condition of
reasonable balance, but there
are factors developing, arising
particularly from the balance
of payments, which cou’d lead
to a renewal of inflationary
pressures.
In these circumstances,
while it would not be appro-
priate at the present time to
make any overall relaxation in
credit policy, it was no longer
for total advances of
the banking system to faff
further apart from normal
seasonal variations. Further-
more, it has been decided that,
while the restrictions on
advances for the expansion of
hire-purchase and instalment-
selling would continue, it
would be left to the discretion
of the banks themselves, within
the limits of the general policy,
to determine the allocation of
loans for other purposes.
Consideration had also been
given to finance for housing,
and it was felt that there was
scope within the general policy
for some moderate increase in
the volume of loans being
provided for this purpose. It
was emphasised, however, that
there would be no general
increase in trading-bank lend-
ing, and that bank-advances
should not be relied upon to
finance large capital-expendi-
ture.
While more mobility in
lending seems permissible
under these terms, especially in
regard to housing, an overall
limit seems to have been set.
Whether mobility will be
helped by the improved posi-
tion of the woolgrower isn’t


Dad is smart...
I’ll say he is! Soon after he opened an A.N.Z,
Cheque Account, he and Mum began something
they call a Budget the A.N.Z. man helped them
get it going. It certainly has made a difference —-
there are no more arguments about money.
My Dad says that he banks with the A.N.Z. because
he likes their friendly service. Mum and l agree
with him; we both have A.N.Z. Savings Accounts
at the same bank. Isn’t that a good idea?
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED—Cheque Accounts
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LlMlTED— Savings Accounts
■ 11 1 11 ANZ373
clear, but it is a possibility.
Over the 12 months to
December 31 last there was
a reduction from £94 million
to £B9 million in advances to
the sheep industry, from £22
million to £l9 million to wheat-
growers, and from £4B million
to £44 million to dairylarmers,
while, in a reduction in total
advances from £893 million to
£865 million, manufacturers
had an increase from £179
million to £lB4 million.
Housing loans fell from £97
million to £B7 million in the
same period.
Since these December figures
were made available total
advances have fallen further,
but not more rapidly than they
did at the same period of last
year.
At the present time many
people will be feeling the need
of more finance with which
to meet income-tax assess-
ments.
A.R.C.-Agco
SHAREHOLDERS in Age©,
Ltd., Sydney, makers of
window-hardware, spring-roller
flyscreens, louvre and other
flyscreens, Supaluvre windows,
etc.,. have had an interesting
proposition put to them by
A.R.C. Industries, Ltd. The
offer is a takeover on the basis
of one A.R.C. 10s. ord. for
every three Agco ss. ords.
On the basis of present divi-
dend rates (15 p.c. A.R.C., 10
p.c. 'Agco) income would
remain unaltered after the
swap; but the future of
mviuends these days is by no
means certain. Since last
balance-day A.R.C. has made a
one-for-one ord. bonus-issue.
And it is now talking of spend-
ing £500,000 on expansion. All
that can be said definitely is
that in the past A.R.C. has
exhibited vigor and enterprise
in management that has been
reflected in high earning-power
and that at present it is keenly
interested in further expansion,
with a spreading of interests
that should tend to stabilise
earnings under varied economic
conditions.
Agco, which wholly owns
A. F. Agnew and Co. Pty., Ltd.,
has a progressive and profitable
business (with lower earning-
power than A.R.C.), but it has
yet to put on financial weight.
In joining with A.R.C. Indus-
tries it would tie-up with a
forceful organisation that in
establishing a high earning-
power has at the same time
built up its financial strength.
A.R.C. gets its name from
Australian Reinforced Concrete
Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd.,
which was formed in Mel-
bourne in 1920 by the late B. F.
Cox. At first B.R.C. reinforc-
ing fabric was made, and later
on reinforcing-bars for con-
crete. In 1928 operations
spread to Homebush (Sydney),
and in 1948 the business of
Ovawefd, Ltd., in a similar type
of industry in Adelaide, was
acquired. In addition to the
reinforcing materials, the co.
and its associates make barbed-
wire, country field-fencing,
wire-mesh crates (spreading
in use), and Rolscreen flywire
screens.
The public became interested
in A.R.C. in 1951, when
14,709 5-6 p.c. prefs. and
220,000 10s. ords. were offered
at par. At June 30, 1951, paid
capital was £470,000 in 820,000
10s. ords. and the balance in
prefs. It was £485,000 a year
later, and at June 30, 1956, it
had increased to £623,665, of
which £528,665 was in ordin-
aries. A plant has now been
established in Queensland, and
is in partial operation. A
business has been bought also
in W.A.
With other purposes in view,
nominal capital was this year
increased from £1,000,000 to
£5,000,000, and the prefs.’
participating rights lifted from
6 p.c. to 7 p.c. At tne same
time ord. shareholders received
a one-for-one issue of bonus
ordinary shares, lifting ord.
capital to £1,057,330, and total
capital to £1,152,330. This
bonus-issue was financed
largely from the revaluation of
holdings in subsidiaries, based
upon their accumulation of
profits since 1951.
The bonus-issue followed an
offer by the Cyclone Co. of
Australia of one Cyclone 10s.
ord. and 20s. in cash for each
A.R.C. ord. The directors of
A.R.C. did not recommend
acceptance of the Cyclone offer,
and indicated that they con-
sidered the potential of their
own concern to be worth more.
In substantiation the bonus-
issue followed shortly after-
wards.
For the 1955-56 term,
stimulated by preparations for
ihe Olympic Games (the co.
supplied all the reinforcing used
in the various stadia), the
A.R.C. group showed a net
profit of £250,777, up £30,681,
and equal to 43.9 p.c. on ord.
and fully-participating pref.
capital (the average for three
years was 41.9 p.c.). For the
second year a 15 p.c. dividend
was paid.
During the half-year to
December 31 overall Australian
sales were above those for the
corresponding period of 1954-
55, while profits were about the
same. The interim div. paid
in February was at the
unchanged rate of 15 p.c., but
it was paid on the pre-bonus
capital.
In view of the cautious divi-
dend policy of the board in
the past (15 p.c. divs. from
earnings in excess of 40 p.c.)
it remains to be seen what
distributions will be considered
appropriate on the expanded
share-register. In view of the
rather quieter conditions in the
building trade, the board at the
halfway mark merely said that
results for 1956-57 “should
compare closely with those of


W4M *
HI
m
m
IDLE MONEY
deposited on Short Term
with
FERRIS INDUSTRIES LTD.
(PAID-UP CAPITAL £235,000)
(MAIN TRADING SUBSIDIARY FERRIS BROS. PTY. LTD.)
will earn you much better
than Bank Interest
Deposits
accepted
from
£5O
o
o
per annum for 2 yrs.
per cnnum for 1 yr.
per annum for 6 mths.
INTEREST PAYABLE HALF YEARLY
A perfectly safe investment (ranking before Share Capital)
in an expanding and successful manufacturing company.
Additional working capital is required to finance the manufacture of
Ferris Television Receivers, Ferris Car Radios, Channel Master Television
Aerials, accessories and component parts.
—CUT AND SEND COUPON
To Secretary, Ferris Industries Ltd.,
752 Pittwater Road, Brookvale.
Please send me details of form of application for Short Term
Deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
B
fgd
the preceding year,” subject to
any further alteration in the
economic outlook.
Apart from immediate
prospects, A.R.C. has been
negotiating with Reynolds
MJ.S.A.) in respect of the manu-
facture of aluminium foil in
Australia. That appears to be
still in the air; and meanwhile
British and Canadian firms
have entered this field. But
A.R.C. has recently concluded
other negotiations, one being
vith Guest Keen and Nettle-
olds, in the U.K., for manu-
acture in Australia under
licence of a new steel reinforc-
ing-bar at a cost considerably
lower than that of present
reinforcing-bar. A.R.C. will
establish a steel-fabricating
plant in Tasmania. Total out-
lay on new plant in Australia
will be at least £500,000, which
may call for the issue of new
capital.
The ss. shares in Agco have
firmed from a lowest of 7s. this
year to 9s. each on the A.R.C.
offer. A.R.C. ords. are quoted
a f 275. 6d., so that on the basis
of one A.R.C. for three Agco
the market is almost in line.
Agco has paid 10 p.c. over
the past two years, and has a
capital of £247,502. A.R.C.
already has a share-interest in
Agco, as well as business con-
nections, and Agco directors
are recommending the swap.
Bloody, But Unbowed
[From L. Owen]
STANDARD OIL CO. of
California —according to a
statement by its chairman,
R. G. Follis, at the annual
stockholders’ meeting held in
San Francisco on May 2
considers its Australian ventyre
in search of indigenous oil
“very disappointing.” He
added that his company and its
affiliates would continue their
exploratory activities within the
Commonwealth, which still
might lead to the discovery of
commercial quantities of
petroleum, with “a degree of
hope.”
His company was still
mystified by the fact that it
had found oil in its first well
(Rough Range 1), but had not
been able to do so in any sub-
sequent borehole.
It is satisfying to learn that
Mr. Follis’s organisation, with
its long and world-wide experi-
ence in the oil game, still looks
hopefully towards ultimate
success in its Australian opera-
tions, and there is no reason
why it should not do so. As
has so often bqen pointed out
in The Bulletin, the small
“pool” penetrated in Rough
Range 1 possessed very
individual characteristics both
of the petroleum substance and
in structure. That this com-
pletely unanticipated strike was
not followed up by others is
in no way surprising, as the
technique adopted was a so-
called developmental one,
founded on the inherited and
mistaken assumption that the
Birdrong sandstone was a
“natural” oil-reservoir.
The many wells drilled to
date into the Birdrong horizon
of the Carnarvon Basin (which
is still the most promising struc-
ture on the Australian main-
land) have merely served to
confirm that this bed can
harbor oil only where an
exceptional combination of
tectonic and structural condi-
tions occurs.
Only three wells all of
them, in my opinion, located
on faulty- premises have
penetrated, to anv considerable
extent, the pre-Triassic strata
in which reasonable exneeta-
tion of striking commercial oil
now is (or should be) centred.
The data available from deep
wells on Cape Ranae and
Rough Ranee—in conjunct'on
with the information already
available from Dirk Hartog
Island and to be obtained both
there and from Barrow Island
—should point the way to a
sounder exploratory pro-
gramme than that employed in
what can only be described as
the sub-surface contouring of
the Birdrong horizon.
The organisation is fortunate
in still possessing the necessary
funds and the spirit to con-
tinue its search for oil, which
it can do with justifiable
optimism.




SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
"The Summer of the Seventeenth Doll"
[From Herbert Holman, London]
are 13 theatres
in and about St. Martin’s
Lane. On April 29, six were
given up to 1 gfit musical enter-
tainment and six to plays. The
latter comprise two mnlieis,
two comedies (one by an
English author whose speciality
is the aristocracy and the other
with a well-known English
actor as star and joint-author)
and two American importa-
tions, both of which are more
than usually seamy and morbid.
On April 30 the first Aus-
tralian play to be performed in
England with an all-Australian
cast came to the one vacant
theatre, the New, where it is
bounded to the west by a
French revue and a long-run-
ning pastiche of the ’twenties
and, to the south, by the latest
100 per cent. American musical
comedy, with baseball as its
theme and with an ice-skater
and an Australian music-hall
comedian as stars.
Such being the immediate
background, it is natural that
the seven pioneers should have
felt some apprehension at what
lay before them. They were
far, far from home, and the
reaction of a metropolitan
audience to an earthy, slangy,
working-class play could not be
foreseen. Knowing the fickle-
ness and unaccountability of
the theatre public’s taste, their
mission might well have ended
in failure and disillusioned
return.
There was no ostentatious
ballyhoo or build-up to the
venture, but there was a genuine
interest in their coming. “The
Stage” gave its leader-space to
an address of welcome: “Aus-
tralians resident in this country
have proved themselves
magnificent actors, dancers,
singers, musicians and stage
designers. For years we have
been waiting to welcome a
dramatist, and at long last Mr.
Lawler has come along and
also appears in his own play
....Australia. becoming
increasingly theatre-conscious,
is no longer content with tour-
ing productions headed by stars
from London and New York.
She is proud of her newly
created Elizabethan Theatre
and determined her own
writers and artists shall play
an active part in it. In London
we look forward to seeing the
finest achievement of this new
venture, just as Australians are
happy to invite some of our
“You sure the Customs bloke Was finished, Dad ?”
leading players and entire com-
panies, such as the Old Vic,
Stratford - upon - Avon players
and the Ballet Rambert, to give
prolonged seasons out there.
The symposium of critical
comment which follows speaks
for itself. On all counts the
venture turned out to be
brilliantly successful. For two
especial reasons it is a healthy
occasion : it brings a whiff of
pungency, dynamism and
sincerity to the West End
theatre; and it may well
establish, by virtue of its metro-
Politan success, the beginning
of a virile indigenous drama.
This second point is of
particular inspiration to Ray
Lawler, with whom I had a long
conversation after the second
night. He spoke not as author
anu actor, but rather as the
chief creative agent charged by
the Elizabethan Theatre Trust
with presenting Australian
drama to the Old World. And
he is immeasurably relieved at
the critics’ reactions.
For a very good reason, too.
It is a hard truth that the
success of the play was very
nearly prejudiced by the con-
vivial audience-participation of
his own countrymen—and this
on the first night, in the
presence of the critics and in a
theatre which enjoys a long
tradition of serious drama.
Thanks to the exuberance of
some mildly larrikin expatriate
Australians, the play was
thrown quite out-of-focus.
They went so wild with delight
at the “Aussiness” of the first
act (the one mention of
“whacko” re-echoed to bucolic
cheers) that the players were
put off-balance. What was
intended to be a serious play
might easily, without the actors’
restraint, have degenerated into
? riot. And their object, made
the more difficult because of
the unaccustomed idiom, was
to get the play across to the
English. After an encouraging
and rewarding preliminary
tour in Nottingham and Edin-
burgh, this experience was as
unexpected as it was disconcert-
ing. And it endangered the
critical reception. (Terence
Rattigan, incidentally, was so
affected by the skylarking that
he intends to see the play
again so that he can view it in
true perspective.)
All concerned —the Eliza-
bethan Trust, Lawler and
Laurence Oliver —have been
shrewd in pieserving the Aus-
tralian tang which is primarily
and subatantially, responsible
for the success. To have cast
the play with English actors —
even with Australians over
here—would have been fatal.
Why should not London, over-
supplied with American suc-
cesse:, adaptations from the
French, and the synthetic
emptiness of English comedies,
lelish a play with a pronounced
Australian flavor?
Such plays must be imported
for the sufficient reason that
Australian actors who seek
work in England know that
they must conform to pro-
ducers’ requirements, of which
a pronounced accent is not
one ; in their own interest they
must compromise.
So Lawler, a little taken
aback at his success, modestly
feels that the outcome may well
have vital repercussions on
Australian audiences, making
them conscious that they have
a theatre of their own, and
stimulating indigenous writers
and actors to work for it.
And he realises, too, that
a good Australian play
does not necessarily mean an
automatic “hit” for Broadway
or the West End. But a lively
Australian theatre would cer-
tainly be a healthy alternative
to three-year-old importations,
“carried” by visiting stars, to
say nothing of the possible
impact of its individual
character and dynamism upon
the outside world.
The Gist of the Comment
“The Stage” Nottingham
critic: “Earthy with a
passionate sincerity.”
Edinburgh “Scotsman” :
“May be melodramatic and
sentimental, but there are
emotional passages in it, which,
combined with the sincerity of
the acting, render these words
meaningless. It may represent
only a small section of Aus-
tralian life, and life of a
peculiar crudity at that, but it
is not a crude play. The play
should be seen for [the per-
formances] and for its realistic
picture of a corner of Aus-
tralian life. But it lacks the
idiom—at least as presented
here which makes foi
greatness.”
“Daily Mail” (Cecil Wilson):
“Nothing could be fuller-
blooded than the way this com-
pany brings [the characters! .to
life, f found the early scenes
rather trying, but once attuned
to the accents and the slang, I
lost myself in the raw humanity
of these humanity


out
, . . he’s the
best-dressed man
fgd
See what happens when you ask a tailor
to make you a suit from Crusader cloth.
Look at the difference. It’s so noticeable.
There’s a quality look about that suit,
an outstanding touch of refinement and artistry.
Yes, good-grooming begins
with the cloth you choose.
And if you choose Crusader, you’ve chosen the best..
the finest pure wool cloth ever made in Australia.
So the man who stands out is the well-dressed man
in Crusader cloth. It’s all wool, made in the shades
and patterns you want.
It’s the cloth that people admire.
It
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
C 8.113
that reduces our own anaemic
drawing-room plays to still-
life.” :
“Daily Express” (J o h n
Barber ); “Funny, often harsh.
Often painful. Always
gloriously theatrical.”
“News Chronicle” , (Alan
Dent): “The title makes us fear
the worst—something tire-
somely whimsical or even
Japanese—but the play is pure
Australian, and it has hardly
got going before we anticipate
the best—something hearty and
heartfelt. The rich Australian
accents, so reniarkably like
Cockney, give an unusual tang,
which makes the play seem
distinctly better than it is.”
“The Times” —(traditionally
anonymous but usually A. V.
Cookman): “It is a drama that
drifts along in a warm cloud of
sentiment. The setting is new
to us in this country and the
people of the drama are curi-
ously endearing in the
simplicity of their toughness.
The evening is never as exciting
as at first it promises to be, but
it is never altogether dull.”
“Daily Telegraph” (doyen
W. A. Darlington): "Mr.
Lawler has woven a rather
casual pattern of rough lives, of
racy talk and down-to-earth
emotions ; and one admires the
gallantry of an author who
writes himself a part which
entails his being apparently
half-killed by an infuriated
partner twice his size. No
lack of vigor and no lack either
of a tough kind of imagery,
some of which is very funny.”
“Financial Times” (Derek
Granger young, percipient,
stylish): “.... a working-class
drama without condescension
or sentimentality that is richer
still in national self-criticism,
feeling and humanity. This
beautifully-shaped and sharply-
written play is a fine illustra-
tion of how deeply unaware
and inarticulate people can be
surprised, by suffering ; and it
gains all the more in impact
from the fact that -it is the
rugged simplicities of their
vaunted way of life which let
them down. The play is
admirably performed in the
rigorous forthright idiom of the
writing, and it is a refreshment
to hear a stage for once alive
with an unmistakably authentic
accent.”
“Manchester Guard ia n ’
(Philip Hope-Wcdlace — urbane,
versatile): “.... at times
heavily written, and some of
the kitchen comedy proves to
be unnecessary, but in the end
the author and two others, June
Jago—all chin and elbows, but
as genuine a dramatic actress as


{The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance Company Limited
70th ANNUAL REPORT
dim i
crn
’LI
]
RECORD YEAR
for new business The sums
assured under new policies
with the tf.LC. ore higher
than ever before.
A year of progressive expansion
A year of record achievement and
' 4 > ‘
greater benefits for policyholders
Increase in
bonus rates
Bonus rotes hove increased
substantially over those of
the previous year by as
much as 20% on some
tables as a result of . . .
Higher interest
earnings from
investments
Wise investment in Aus-
tralian industries meant
greater income from
interest with a larger con-
tribution to surplus for
Policyholders. |
Lower'
expense rate
Thff percentage of
expenses to premium
income was reduced,
with advantage to
Policyholders.,
BE WILL ADVISED BY THE M.LC. MAN
The M.LC.
The Mutual Life aod
Citizens’ Assurance
Compeny Limited
you could find —and Kenneth
Warren manage to pull on a
deep well of feeling. So it is
in this harsh, cawing, strongly-
felt play: the breaking of an
ideal, cheap in itself but
precious in its tawdry circum-
stances, is made moving and
significant.”
“Star” ( C.W.1.): “I hope the
lessons in the value of reality so
freely given there do not pass
unnoticed among London
managements.”
“Evening News” (Stephen
Williams): “Mr. Lawler writes
racy, strongly salted dialogue
and has a keen eye for a
dramatic situation. His ear is
perhaps less keen than his eye,
since it takes him a long time
to make clear his purpose to
those unfamiliar with Aus-
tralian speech. But once the
play grips* it slackens only in
the last act, when we slowly
gather the fragments of the
doll knowing that they will
only lead us to a foregone
conclusion.”
“Evening Standard” (Milton
Shulman — London’s most out-
spoken critic, often vitupera-
tive, sometimes merciless):
“Exactly the kind of play one
might have expected from a
young country like Australia.
It is brash, virile, earthy and
impatient with middle-age.
Often, indeed, the accent and
slang meld into one great yaw
of incomprehensibility. But
this is a play of real people and
real. values, pulsing with real
dramatic gusto. If I did not
find the play’s climax altogether
convincing, it is still a most
impressive achievement.”
“The Stage” ( R. B. Marriott):
“Mr. Lawler presents his story
and theme with considerable
effect. While making his
characters to touch us, he rarely
becomes merely sentimental,
and his dialogue has natural-
ness, truth and wit. The
intensity of imaginative
creation and fineness of craft
that would lift the play into the
first rank are lacking, but
‘.Summer of the Seventeenth
Doll’ is still a work of achieve-
ment of which the Australian
theatre may very justly be
proud.”
“Observer” (Kenneth Tynan
— young, fearlessly incisive,
didactic an intellectual
“character ”); “Last Tuesday,
against all augury, the lost
cause (the expression in drama
of simple human bei-ngs) was
suddenly won. One of her
Majesty’s subjects turned up
with a play about working
people who were neither ‘grim’
nor ‘funny,’ neither senti-
mentalised nor patronised,
neither used to point a social
moral nor derided as quaint
and improbable clowns. Instead
they were presented as human
beings in their own right,
exulting in universal pleasures
and nagged by universal griefs.
“If Ray Lawler is aware of
the magnitude of his achieve-
ment,. 1 shall be the most
astonished critic in London ;
for I am sure revolution was
not in his mind when he wrote
it. He was merely born with
something tjiat most English
playwrights acquire only after
a struggle and express only with
the utmost embarrassment —
respect for ordinary people.
Out of unremarkable gaieties
and regrets, out of everyday
challenges and defeats, he has
composed a story as gripping
in the theatre as it would be in
life.”
“Sunday Times” (Harold
Hobson. academic, deeply
set ions, a “ belles-lettres” critic):
“There are a good many
reasons fo<r being excited over
this play [which] takes us
among new characters, and into
new country. This sociological
insight into the customs of a
self - contained community
fascinated me on.the first night,
until a member of the audience
who had actually cut cane him-
self informed that I was getting
the whole thing wrong. He
assured me that the giant Roo
and his sexy friend Barney
(who had learned a lot from the
rabbits which have played so
prolific a paTt in Australian
history) were not social
examples, but individuals.
“Mr. Lawler has one of the
qualities of a first-rate
dramatist, that of being able,
like Racine (and unlike
Shakspeare), to put his finger
on the exact point at which the
fortunes of his characfers reach
their climax, and begin to
decline. Even to the most
powerful the moment of defeat
must eventually come. This
is the theme of Mr. Lawler’s
play. It is a fine theme, and
imaginatively conceived. Noth-
ing that I am going to say now
must be allowed to detract
from this recognition that Mr.
Lawler, in conception,
manifests creative ability of a
high order.”
Artbursts
Two-man Show
Two-man exhibitions are
usually embarrassing because
one artist shows up much better
than the other; but Russell
Drysdale’s drawings and
Donald Friend’s oils at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries are so
dissimilar that awkward com-
parisons never arise.
Friend is chiefly concerned
with decoration, Drysdale with
life. Friend’s landscapes in
their squares and cubes and
lozenges are highly stylised;
Drysdale’s stockmen, aborigines
and Malays are drawn faith-
fully and sensitively, without
any of the distortion that
characterised his early work.
Drysdale’s show as a whole
is a trip outback, Friend’s as
a whole is a journey into
modern (or ancient and Asiatic)
stylisms. Drysdale’s work may
mean more (it has practically
sold-out); but a Friend oil
might decorate a wall just as
satisfactorily, and certajnly
more vividly.
The smaller of Friend’s oils,
such as his pink “Mining
Machinery” and his bright
“The Tiled Stove,” are .more
effective than the larger
canvases where the color tends
to fuzz and the design to lose
precision. All the Drysdales
are small ; and if “Drovers on
the Plain,” “Chinese Girl,”
“The Boss,” “Malay Boy” and
“Ennui” (a dolorous fat
barman) seem to stand out,
they don't stand out by much
from all the other pleasant and
lively little sketches.
Films
“Five Steps to Danger”
A top German physicist,
captured by the Russians at the
war’s end, escapes to the West
but has to leave behind a
secret formula to do with the
latest Russian inter-continental
ballistic-missile. This falls into
the hands of an American
widow in Berlin, and her
efforts to get it to the physicist,
who has taken a post in the
U.S., comprise most of the
doings which have a fair
meed of excitement despite
some inconsistencies in thfe
plot. Sterling Hayden and
Ruth Roman are the two
Americans who finally con-
found the Reds. At Sydney
Palace.


Safeguard! your Estate
fgd
The T
m
m
fewrporaletl in Victoria in 1178
TR39.35
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
by appointing The Trustees Executors anti Agency Co. Ltd. Executor of
your Will.
Advantages: Security . . . Continuity . . . Expert Management . . .
Impartiality . . . Accessibility . . . Secrecy . . . Continuous Audit . . . Moderate
Charges . . . Fidelity to Trust.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company as your Executor either alone or
jointly with some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
k Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
481 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserve s, £972,657.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming
Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman. D. 5.0., M.C., Y.D.; W. E. M. Campbell.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Bradford Cotton Mills, Ltd.
A RELIABLE profit-winner, Bradford
Cotton Mills, Ltd., has never failed
to pay a div. in any of the 22 years since
the public obtained a share-interest in the
co. 'The current p.c. div.-rate was
reintroduced in 1954 and followed a series
of 10 p.c. distributions, the average rate
for the last 10 years being 10.7 p.c.
Growing from a small cotton-weaving
business established 30 years ago in
Sydney, the Bradford group is now the
largest cotton-spinner, -weaver and
-dyer in Australia. As well as spinning
raw cotton and weaving the yarn into
various types of drills, ducks, denims,
tweeds, etc., the co. also produces rayon
yarns, and is engaged in the dyeing,
shrinking, finishing, weatherproofing and
flameproofing of fabrics. The Bradford
group operates 14 mills: seven in N.S.W.
and the same number in Victoria.
In 1953 a substantial shareholding in
Burlington Mills (Australia), Ltd., was
acquired, and last term the co. joined
with Felt and Textiles of Australia, Ltd.,
to form Chattanooga Tufted Carpets
Pty., which recently commenced the pro-
duction of tufted carpets. These carpets
are at present manufactured from cotton
or rayon yarn, but nylon, wool, or a
combination of fibres, can also be used.
The “tufting” process produces floor-
coverings at a much faster rate than
weaving-looms, resulting in lower manu-
facturing costs.
The last share-issue to members was in
1951, when 733,261 £1 ords. were offered,
two-for-five, at a 10s. premium. Of the
£3,045,431 paid capital,. £153,104 is in
£1 6 p.c. cum. prefs., £103,235 in £1
employee-shares and £2,789,092 in £1
ords.
Changing conditions have affected the
textile-industry generally over the past
few years, but, with the aid of modern
plant and capable management, Bradford
Cotton has been able to return satisfac-
tory profits. Last term (to June 30, ’56)
pre-tax earnings increased by £35,741 —
despite the absence of a div. from Bur-
lington Mills. The div. from this source
in the preceding term was worth £34,113.
Total sales (undisclosed) rose by nearly
10 p.c., and, although wage and incentive-
payments increased, the labor-content of
the turnover was reduced.
A higher provision for taxation, up
£35,083 to £313,718 made-off with most
of the gain, however, and after allowing
£279,703 (up £2358) for depreciation, net
profit was only £658 stronger at
£470,230:
Bradford Cotton and Subsidiaries.*
/— —Dividends ■, To Re-
Jnne, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves, serves.f
£ £ £ £
1949.. 145.858 0 p.c. 10 p.c. 125,840 20,018 613,035
Share premiums, £84,729 .. .. 697,764
Removal exes., etc., £73,691 . . . . 624,073
' Freeholds written up, £514,283 . . 1,138,356
1950.. 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 173,565 13,453 1.151,809
Share premiums, £66,001 .. .. 1,217,810
Removal exes., etc., £58,884 . . 1,158,926
1951.. 6 p.c. TO p.c. 186,144 182,280 1,341,206
Share premiums, £300,631 .. .. 1,''41,837
. Removal exes., etc., £38,268 . . 1,603,569
1952.. 375.926 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 248,144 127,782 1,731,351
To staff fund, £SOOO .. .. .. 1,726,351
1953.. 364 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 266,535 98,829 1,825,180
To staff fund, £SOOO 1,820,180
Add 1 reserves adjustment, £Bll6 1,828,296
1954.. 734 6 p.c. 12ip.c. 354,818 142,916 1,971,212
To staff fund, £IO,OOO . . . . 1,961,212
1955.. 469.572 6 p.c. 121p.c. 368,503 101,069 2,062,281
To staff fund, £SOOO 2,057,281
1956.470,230 6 p.c. 124p.c. 371,193 99,037 2,156,318
To staff fund, £SOOO .. .. .. 2,151,318
* Excluding outside interests, t After deducting in-
tangibles ( £2863), and excluding depreciation re-
serve (now £2,281,178).
Earnings were sufficient to cover the pref.
divs. and show 16 p.c. on ord. capital,
compared with 16, 17.6, 13.8 and 15.3
p.c. back to 1952.
Additions to plant last term involved
an expenditure of £511,849, but depreci-
ation, etc., reduced the net increase in
fixed assets (shown at cost and subject
to depreciation reserve) to £325,201.
Share-capital is well supported by
reserves:—
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £2,999,823 £3,020,621 £3,045,431
Reserves .. 1,964,075 2,060,144 2,154,181
Depreciation
reserve .. 1,756,905 2,033,788 2,281,178
Mortgage loan 1,100,000 1,075,000 1,050,000
Overdraft ... 388,400 789,644 1,157,814
Creditors .. 1,656,053 1,414,721 1,079,906
Staff fund .. 24,223 33,471 35,127
Tax reserve .. 854,168 299,150 381,072
Final div. .. 218,097 184,690 185,830
£10,361,744 £10,911,229 £11,370,599
Freeholds .. 1,758,949 1,793,108 1,837,971
Leaseholds .. 131,127 132,914 135,793
Investments .. 368,069 383,755 490,758
Plant .. .. 4,346,284 4,683,059 5,194,908
Stock .. .. 2,567,349 2,577,772 2,361,677
Debtors .. 1,176,841 1,329,075 1,346,629
Cash .. .. 10,262 8,683
Intangibles .. 2,863 2,863 2,863
£10,361,744 £10,911,229 £11,370,599
To supplement retained earnings the co.
stretched its overdraft by £368,170, but
at the same time reduced the amount
owing to creditors by £334,755. The half-
interest in Chattanooga Tufted Carpets
lifted investments by £107,003, and
with the heavy expenditure on fixed
assets, contributed to the fall in working-
capital, £336,701 lighter at £903,624.
For most of the current term competi-
tion from imported goods has been
limited by import-restrictions, and Aus-
tralian- production of cotton cloths (with
the exception of denims) increased during
the six months to December 31 last. A
greater supply of competing imported
products is expected to follow the recently
announced increases in some import-
quotas, and, although applications have
been made to the Tariff Board to increase
protective duties, the board’s findings
have yet to be made public.
At 40s. 9d. the f.-p. £1 ords. return
6.1 p.c. from a p.c. distribution, an
interim div. on this basis being paid last
March. At balance-date the ords. had
a net tangible backing of 345. lid.
Waters Holdings, Ltd.
npHE occasion of its new share-issue
last September olfered those interested
an opportunity to buy into this old-
established and successful trader virtually
on a par basis.
In the prevailing weakness of the share-
market at the time the rights to the issue


were to be had for as little as a penny
each. Since then there has been a
general firming in equity-share prices;
the co. turned in an encouraging report
for the year ended March 31 (a fairly
testing one, by all standards), and the
f.-p. £1 shares now fetch around 225.
The co. imports Eastern produce,
exports Australian agricultural products,
mills peas and barley, grinds spices and
wholesales coir-mats, rugs, blinds, furnish-
ings, etc.
Last term sales of floor-coverings and
furnishings were well maintained, and as
an offset to shortages in other directions
brought about by tighter import-controls
the co. stepped-up its export trade in
locally grown farm produce:
Waters Holdings, Ltd., and Subsidiary.
March Profit. , Dividends Deficit.*
31 £, £ £
To share capital, £461,610 .. 236,575
Preliminary exes., £'3296 .. 239,871
Loss sale assets, £3411 . . 243,282
1952 .. 72,232 6 p.c. = 36,930 207,980
To staff fund, £2500 .. ..1 , fiß ny
1953 .. 79,356 6 p.c. = 36,930 j 100, 0
To staff fund, £2500 .. \ inq o-a
1954 .. 107,440 74 p.c. = 46,162 j 1UJ ’
1955 . . 67,506 7| „ „ 46,162 87,932
Profit sale assets, £17,915 .. 70,017
To staff fund, £2500 .. ..1 kc oqo
1956 .. 63,446 74 p.c. = 46,161 (
To staff fund, £2500 .. ••V oq atq
1957 .. 90,201 8 p.c. = 56,142 f
•After deducting intangibles, £210,000 kt 31/3/’57.
Written after providing £4982 (up £1842)
depreciation and undisclosed amount for
co.-tax the £90,201 ,( U P £26,755) was
equal to 11.3 p.c. on mean paid-up capital,
compared with 10.3 p.c. in 1955 and 10.9,
17.7, 12.8 and 11.7 p.c. over the four pre-
ceding terms. Satisfied with the per-
formance, the board added \ p.c. to the
distribution, making 8 p.c. for the year,
and set aside £2500 for the staff fund
(£25,000). The £31,559 of profit left
brought reserves to £186,327, against
which intangibles raised at the time of
the formation of the holding co. in 1951
amount to £210,000. (Then shareholders in
Waters Trading Cos. exchanged their
153,870 £1 shares for £615,487 of the
present co.’s scrip, the equivalent of a
three-for-one bonus issue.) By “the appro-
priation of maximum profits to reserves”
the board aims to eliminate the balance
of these intangibles, which suggests that
nothing more than 8 p.c. need be counted
on in the way of dividends in the imme-
diate future. Also, the co. has to contend
with rising production-costs locally, and
higher shipping freight-charges.
When the year ended all but £20,654
of the share-issue (£102,598) had been
subscribed. Together with an extra
£82,943 owing creditors the new money
went into additions to freeholds- (up
£63,633), plant (up £14,828), stocks
(up £42,311) and debtors (up £95,676):
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £615,487 £615,487 £697,431
Reserves 122,068 154,768 186,327
Creditors ~ .. 476,322 524,274 607,217
Suspense a/c 1 .. 5,204 8,701 1,090
Staff fund .. 20,000 22,500 25,000
Final div 27,697 27,697 35,219
£1,266,77S £1,353,427 £1,552,284
Freeholds.. .. 234,891 243,947 307,580
riant, etc. .. 80.563 86,568 101,396
Shares .. .. 62,690 62,935 ‘ 45,339
Stock .. .. '532,562 528,605 -570,916
Debtors .. .. 146,067 221,345 317,021
Cash, bond 3 .. 5 27 32
Intangibles .. 210,000 210,000 210,000
£1,266,778 £1,353,427 £1,552,254
To provide the inter-State branches with
better accommodation new premises have
been put up in Brisbane and the first stage
of modernising the Richmond (Vic.) pro-
perty completed. This work will be con-
tinued in the current term, with the object
of centring all operations under one roof,
and a start made on building a store at
Fremantle.
Not shown in the year’s accounts was
the purchase of the business of Mex
Cereal Cos., of Adelaide, and its subsidiary
Barossa Valley Milling Cos. The acquisi-
tion will enable Waters to expand its
Australian and overseas business in split
peas and allied lines. In other parts, in
various districts of N.S.W. and S.A., the
co. has established personal contact with
farmers to encourage the production of
crops for the export trade and other
commodities at present imported.
At the current market-price of 225.
the return from the scrip, on an 8 p.c.
div. basis, is 7.3 p.c. Including the un-
called capital net tangible cover (on con-
servative book-values) is 19s. 4d. a share.
Moffat-Virtue, Ltd.
TN spite of the bigger trading loss dis--
closed by the co. last term, prospects
for Moffat-Virtue, Ltd., appear a little
brighter now than they have for some
time.
The co. is one of Australia’s biggest
manufacturers of sheep-shearing gear,
water-cooled engines, jetting-plants,
power-generating plants, pumping- and
irrigation-equipment, milking-machines
and other farming equipment, and in the
home-appliance field it turns out the
popular Hawkins pressure-cooker, and
the Frymatic and Dinermatic electric-
cookers.
In the buoyant conditions following
the war the co. gave a very good account
of itself, but it wasn’t prepared for the
slump in 1952, and production had to be
cut back sharply while heavy stocks held
by the co. and its distributors were dis-
posed of.
Since then business has been subject
to the influence of credit- and import-
restrictions, which hit the agency lines,
and the. steady decline in farm incomes.
The table shows what happened to
earnings:
r Dividends v Re-
Dec. 31, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ * £
Expenses of share issue, £905 .. 25,318
1947 .. 12,951 8 6 7,742 30,527
Expenses of share issue, £1702 .. 28,825
1948 .. 30,267 8 9 14,124 44,968
1949 .. 41,523 8 10 17,953 65,538
Revaluation reserve, £84,000 .. 152,538
Share premiums, £SOOO .. .. 157,538
1950 .. 52,737 8 10 22,567 187,708
1951 .. 55,485 8 10 27,180 216,013
1952 . . 31,047 8 8 22,144 224,916
Net loss by subsid., £7364 .. .. 217,552
From tax reserves, £2500 .. .. 220,052
Loss.
1953 . . 9,823 8 Nil 2,000 208,229
Profit sale assets, £505 .. .. 208,734
Net loss by subsid., £BB3I .. .. 199,903
Profit.
1954 .. 11,166 8 24 8,295' 202,774
Profit sale assets, £576 .. .. 203,350
Loss.
1955 .. 244 8, Nil. 2,000 201,106
Profit sale assets, £75 .. .. 201,181
Losses by subsid., £2502 .. .. 198,679
Assets revalued, £24,940 . . .. 223,619
1956 .. 16,342 8 Nil 2,000 205,277
* Subject to goodwill, £4878 at 31/12/’56.
Last year the only bright spot in the rural
scene was the upward movement in wool
prices. For the rest, rising costs, un-
certain markets, and, in the eastern
States in the first half of the term,
extremely wet weather, discouraged in-
vestment in new equipment, and the co.’s
gross earnings failed to cover expenses
by £16,342. Reserves were drawn on
to meet the pref. charges ; the ord. div.
was passed. Since the current term
opened the co. has tied up with the
English manufacturing concern J. A.
Prestwich Industries, Ltd., to make its
well-known J.A.P. air-cooled engines in
Australia. Anew subsidiary, J. A. Prest-
wich-Virtue Pty., has been formed for
the purpose in which Moffat-Virtue has
taken up an unspecified share-interest.
All managerial, warehousing and account-
ancy functions of the new concern which
has taken over part of Moffat-Virtue’s
Rosebery (Sydney) factory will be carried
out on a contract basis by the local co.,
which will also supply parts and distribute
the engines on a joint basis in Australia.
According to the co. there is a shortage
of air-cooled engines in this country at
present (they are used to power lawn-
mowers, spraying-equipment, concrete-
mixers, workshops, compressors, gener-
ating-sets, etc.) and large orders have
already been obtained. It is planned also
to develop export markets.
Asa preliminary to the property sale
the co. wrote-up the whole of its free-
holds by £24,940 and transferred the
surplus to reserves:
1954. 1955. 195(5.
Paid capital .. ... £2.76,799 £276,799 £276,799
Reserves .. .. 202,774 201,741 205,277
Mortgages' .. .. 108,166 104,166 100,166
Overdraft ... .. 174,435 • 179,966 190,183
Creditors, etc.* .. 113,033 79,256 66,695
Filial div 7,295 1,000 1,000
£862,502 £842,928 £840,120
Freehold ~ .. .. 208,947 209,060 234,000
Plant .. .. .. 75,840 72,512 75,317
Shares, advances subsid. 86,321 48,715 37,324
Stock 381,465 414,014 406,284
Debtors .. .. .. 125,051 93,749 82,317
Goodwill .. .. 4,878 4,878 4,878
£882,502 £842,928 £840,120
* Includes jjrovision for taxation.
The other balance-sheet movements relate
mainly to reductions in stock (down
£7730) and debtors (down £11,432), re-
flecting the slacker trading, 2nd the repay-
ment of advances by the Queensland
offshoot.
Last sale of the f.-p. 12s. 6d. ords. was
at 6s. At that price they offer the patient
holder the prospects of gains later on.
Much will depend, however, on how soon
the co. can get its idle plant back into
production. Net asset cover is 21s. 6d.
a share.
Raleigh Preserving Cos., Ltd.
THE net profit earned by Raleigh
Preserving Cos., Ltd., last term (to
December 31) is the highest yet reported
by the co. in its short (six-year) career as
a public company. When Raleigh was
formed in 1932 its only product was
tomato-sauce, and it wasn’t until 1941
that it began canning fruit and
vegetables. Since then it has developed
into a sizeable soup-manufacturer and
fruit-, vegetable- and meat-canner, but
strong competition has kept profit-
margins down, and last term’s record


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson &o'Sullivcn
2
jACKSOiy 4,
osun<rvAv
t»s fcßw
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers , Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New. Sort
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS t I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
■‘jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
C.l. Australian and Overseas Patents
and Trade Marks.—Advt.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Wafer filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
■ wrm mmm mam mm l mum u
bvSehs ccobbbvb nHisaavnaivS
A FINANCIAL J
BULWARK
for thousands
of Australians ..
FOR ALL CLASSES j'
OF LIFE ASSURANCE i FT
AND PERSONAL *
ACCIDENT INSURANCE
- AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY. BW 8061
DIRECTORS: E. W. Robinson, Esq., Chairman;
Col. R. S. Goward, C.8.E.; P. H. Phillips, Esq.;
T. Keith Smith, Esq.; C. W. Rothe, Esq.;
S. J. Gandon, Esq.
Gen. Manager: W. J. Cooksey, B.Sc., F.F.A.
earnings represented only a
moderate return on the co.’s
share-capital.
Well-equipped factories at
Melbourne and Pakenham (Vic-
toria) turn out a large range of
tinned foods, condiments and
strained foods for children,
approximately half of the out-
put being exported. The co.
has no direct interest in grow-
ing the produce which it pro-
cesses but advises contract-
growers on seed-types, planting
and harvesting. A Sydney
branch handles distribution in
N.S.W., agents representing the
co. in Quee*sland, South Aus-
tralia, West Australia, and the
U.K. A subsidiary, Raleigh
Containers Pty., produces card-
board containers for the parent
and other customers.
A one-for-two par issue in
1951 brought in £90,000 and
lifted paid capital to £300,000
—of which £30,000 is in £1
5 p.c. prefs.
Last term, for the first time
in several years, local sales
exceeded exports, but there was
no significant alteration to
turnover (something over £l|
million), although adverse
weather affected some crops
and, consequently, production
of certain lines. The higher
local turnover was accompanied
by an increase in local profit-
margins and an improvement in
production methods, the com-
bination more than offsetting
a smaller return from the less
profitable export-market. The
co. was thus able to show a
19.2 p.c. jump in earnings
despite a steady turnover, net
profit rising by £6394 to £39,581
after providing £26,825 (up
£4657) for taxation and
£18,317 (down £669) for
depreciation:
Raleigh Preserving and Subsidiary.
, Dividends ,
Pref. . Re-
Dec.,PFft. 5 p.c. t Ord. , serves.
’51..25,493 1500 S p.c. = 14,400 26,002
Tax underprovided, £1964 .. 24,098
’52..22.213 1500 4 p.c.=: 9,900 35,011
Profit sale assets, £Bl4 .. 35,825
’53..10,296 1500 3 p.c. = 8,100 36,521
Tax overprovided, £949 .. 37,470
Profit sale assets, £132 .. 37,602
’54..34,531 1500 6 p.c. = 16,200 54,433
Tax overprovided, £338 .. 54,771
Profit sale assets, £2645 .. 57,416
’55..33,187 1500 61 p.c. = 17,550 71,553
Tax overprovided, £316 .. 71,809
Profit sale assets, £728 .. 72,597
’56..39,581 1500 8 p.c. = 21,600 89,078
Earnings, after covering the
pref. div., equalled a return of
14.1 p.c. on ord. capital, com-
pared with 11.7, 12.2, 3.6 and
8.4 p.c. back to 1952. Asa
result there was no difficulty in
lifting the ord. div.-rate from
6-j p.c. to 8 p.c., bringing the
average div.-rate, as a public
co., to 6.2 p.c.
With future expansion in
mind the board, during the
term, arranged for the purchase
of land adjacent to the Paken-
ham factory. This transaction
and additions to the Sydney
premises are reflected in the
balance-sheet by an £18,659
increase in the book-value of
freeholds:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital— £ £ £
Pref. .. 30,000 30.000 30.000
Ord. . . 270,000 270,000 270,000
Reserves .. 54,433 71,553 89,078
Overdraft .. 55,223 91.527 105,264
Creditors .. 67,785 74,334 83.695
Tax provision 24,353' 40,687 47,631
Final div. .. 8,600 9,950 11,550
510,394 588,051 637,218
Freeholds .. 154,514 169,903 188,562
Plant, etc. .. 94,885 94,198 97,161
Stocks .. 234,710 257,018 276,684
Debtors*. .. 21,661 61,831 68,900
Cash, etc. .. 4,623 5,100 5,910
Goodwill .. 1 1 1
510,394 588,051 637,218
To finance the expenditure on
fixed assets (revalued in 1950)
and heavier stocks (up £19,666),
the co. added to retained earn-
ings a further £13,737 from
the bank and increased the
amount owing to creditors by
£9361. Working-capital fell by
£4097 to £103,354 over the
term, and shareholders have
been invited to deposit money
with the co. at attractive rates
of interest, to help finance the
increase, in turnover expected
in the current term.
Profit-margins are small in
the export-trade, and more
emphasis is now being placed
on the Australian market,
although efforts to increase
exports are continuing. Sales
in the first two months of the
current term were “well ahead”
of those for the corresponding
period in 1956, and early fore-
casts indicate that a good
supply of fruit and vegetables
will be available for canning.
The f.-p. ss. ords. have a net
tangible backing of a shade
under 6s. Bd. and at ss. 6d.
(3s. lid. a year ago) return 7.2
p.c. from an 8 p.c. div.
McDonnell and East, Ltd.
TN less than two years David
Jones, Myer Emporium and
Waltons-Sears have all entered,
or increased their interest in,
the Brisbane retail market, but
the 56-year-old McDonnell and
East, Ltd., appears to have
obtained its fair share of the
increase in retail sales in
Queensland over that period.
During the last 10 years profits
from this Brisbane draper have
varied considerably, and the last
sharp fall was in the 1954 term,
when the 8 p.c. ord. div. came
partly from reserves. There
was, however, a swift recovery,
and accounts for the year to
January 31 last disclosed a
further improvement in net
profit, the 10 p.c. div.-rate
adopted in 1956 being main-
tained without difficulty,
The co., which trades from
a freehold property in George-
street, Brisbane, has a paid
' cap ital'of £295,027, of which
£9OOO carries a fixed g p c div>
The Jast share _ issue was in 1951
114,000 £1 ords. were
offered to members at par, on a
one-for-two basis,
Last term higher gross
earnings (up £23,736 to
£348,399) more than countered
the £19,477 increase, in expenses
(£275,491), with the result that
net earnings were £2259
stronger at £43,408,. after pro-
aiding £29,500 (up £2000) for
taxation and a practically


Your savings can be worth
MORE EACH YEAR!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
5/4%
LOAN
Offers you a Government-Guaranteed Income
For 5 years or more!
The advantages of securing an unfailing income
must appeal to everyone who needs more
money. Your Loan investment immediately
earns this 5| per cent, each year, and will
continue to earn this high rate throughout the
term you prefer—s, 10 or 20 years.
Your principal and half-yearly interest pay-
ments are guaranteed by the bI.S.W. Govern-
ment. If you wish, your interest may be
credited direct to your bank account. Five and
a quarter per cent, can also be earned by Trust
Funds ; the Loan is an Authorised Trustee
Investment in N.S.W., Queensland, Western
Australia and Tasmania.
You and your family will profit substantially
from a prompt decision to invest in Sydney’s
most important public utility. Those half-yearly
interest payments will prove invaluable, and
you know that your capital will be repaid in full
when the Loan matures.
YOUR INVESTMENT WILL BE QUICKLY
ARRANGED TODAY! Call at any Common-
wealth Trading Bank, apply through a Stockbroker,
or at the Sydney Water Board offices. Your
investment, interest and repayment at maturity are
free of exchange in terms of the Prospectus.
THE
SYDNEY WATER
BOARD LOAN
Loan No. 175 will close not later than 2 5th May, 1957,
and is underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
GENERATOR SET
27 1 K.V.A.
Direct coupled to V 8 Petrol Engine,
complete with switchboard,
£750.
BUSCH ELECTRIC CO.,
Valley St., Huntingdale, Victoria.
U,J 1443, UJ 1480.
fgdfgd
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines' at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plana«
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents —•
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold St Co. Pty. Ltd.
• Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
• , Vardon Price Ltd.
• Docket Book Co. (Anst.)
unaltered £5205 for deprecia-
tion :
, Dividends
Pref. Re-
Jan., Prft. 8 p.c. f Ord.= >, serves.
£ £ £ £
’62. 28,449 720 8 p.c. =15,846 222,025
Reserves disappear, £11,528. 210,497
’63..29,823 720 8 p.c. =22,882 216,718
Reserves disappear, £9182.. 207,536
’64..19,591 720 8 p.c. =22,882 203,525
From tax res., £11,331 net. . 214,856
’55..30,211 720 8 p.c=22,882 221,465
’56..41,149 720 10 „ ~28,602 233,292
’57..43,408 720 10 „ ~28,608 247,378
After deducting the small pref.
div., the profit represented a
return of 14.9 p.c. on ord.
capital, as against 14.1', 10.3,
6.6, 10.2 and 29.1 p.c. back to
1952, the 10 p.c. div. leaving
almost a third of the earnings
to strengthen the already solid
reserves.
Additions to plant and
fixtures, including the air-
conditioning of part »f the co.’s
premises (revalued in 1952),
were responsible for most of
the £29,452 added to the book-
value of fixed assets over the
term:
1955. 1958. 1957.
Paid capital— £ £ £
Pref. . . 9,000 9,000 9,000
Ord. .. 286,027 256.027 286,027
Reserves .. 221,464 233,290 247,375
Mortgages .. 902 902 40,602
Overdraft .. 121,909 167,690 144,897
Creditors .. 66,815 78,241 105,023
Staff fund .. 13,500 13,500 13,500
Tax provision 20,564 81,170 33,418
Final divs. . . 13,591 15,021 15,021
753,772 834,847 894,863
Freehold, plant,
etc. . . 238,752 248,197 277,649
Stocks . . 389,315 433,944 435,44 S
Book debts .. 121,110 145,816 172,510
Cash, etc. .. 4,595 6,890 9,259
753,772 834,847 894,8G3
There was little alteration to
stocks (shown at the lower of
cost or replacement-value), but
book-debts jumped by 18.3 p.c.,
reflecting the tighter financial
conditions prevailing for most
of the term. To assist in financ-
ing the increase in assets and a
£22,793 cut in the overdraft, the
co. stretched its mortgage loan
by £39,700 and finished the year
owing creditors an extra
£26,782. Mainly as a result of
the larger deferred liability,
working-capital improved by
£24,333 to £318,855.
The board expects “an even
better result” from the co. in
the current term, and, with a
greater quantity of imported
goods available, an expanding
—if competitive—market and a
chance of some relaxation of
the credit-squeeze, their hopes
may well be realised.
Each f.-p. £1 ord. is sup-
ported by net tangible assets of
375. 3d., the scrip at 295. 6d.
returning 6.7 p.c. from a 10 p.c.
div.
South Alligator Uranium
A CALL of 6d. a share is
being made by South
Alligator Uranium, N.L. This
will lift the co.’s paid capital
to £379,000, in 620,000 f.-p. ss.
vendor-shares and 1,360,000
contribs. paid to 3s.
South Alligator Uranium
was formed in June of last
year following negotiations
between Metals Exploration,
N.L., and Uranium Develop-
ment and Prospecting, N.L. It
paid Metals Exploration £SOOO
in scrip and U.D.P. £50,000 in
cash and £150,000 in scrip for
certain items of plant and an
“authority to prospect” over
195 sq.-miles in the South
Alligator River area (adjacent
to United Uranium’s workings).
The co. has also joined with
Mining Corporation (Aust.),
N.L., to test an area near Clon-
curry (Qld.).
Samples taken recently from
the Rockhole (Sth. Alligator)
area show an average of 2.3
p.c. U 3 08 and a deposit over
380 ft. long and 3ft. wide going
1.0 p.c. uranium oxide has been
proved. This, of course, is
hardly as rich as the “70 p.c.
U 3 08” ore mentioned here
and there in the prospectus,
but the co. hopes for “profitable
production” from the Rockhole
mine by the end of the year,
by which time exploration of
other prospects should be com-
pleted.
The contribs. paid to 2s. 6d.
last sold at 2s. 2d. The 6d. call
is payable by June 12.
New England Antimony,
N.L. has announced that unless
rain falls in the next few days
operations at Magward
(N.S.W.) will have to be
suspended owing to the
shortage of water.


LYSAGHT
10,000 GAL.
water tanks
READY TO
ASSEMBLE
TALL
14' 4" diam.
10' 7" high
f
J
v ' St'
w
*•:
i
SQUAT
19' 1" diam.
6' 5" high
pwucm
BASIC UNIT comprising
wall sheets, jointing
material, bolts, nuts and
washers, outlet fitting
and special tools
OPTIONAL EXTRAS
STEEL BASE comprising
base sheets, solder,
sludge outlet fitting and
special tools
OR
CONCRETE BASE by
cement-penetrant method.
All materials supplied
except cement, sand and
aggregate
14'4" Dia. 19'1" Dia.
10'7" High 6'5" High
£ll7 £93
£39 £5B
£45 £7O
OTHER LYSAGHT
WATER TANKS
25,000 Gallons— £3ol
50,000 * —£425
75,000 „ —£533
100,000 „ —£6o4
All Prices F.O.R.
Newcastle
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, or John Lysaght fAustralial Pty. Ltd. in
all Capital Cities. T&AX/54
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
NEW ZEALAND this month
got some good advice
from the “Financial Times”
columnist “Lombard.”
It should, he said, seek per-
mission from the British
authorities to raise new
development - loans on the
London market. And it should
apply for membership of the
International Monetary Fund
and the World Bank.
Through the attraction of
more capital from overseas
lay the Dominion’s best hope
of strengthening its balance-
of - payments position, he
declared.
The Minister of Finance,
Mr. Watts, replied through the
press that the Government
was in fact considering going
on the British loan-market
again this year.
Mr. Watts was probably
referring to a modest London
loan of about. £5 million,
which he forecast in his
Budget speech last August and
for which, it is understood, he
has already made preliminary
arrangements.
The “Financial Times”
writer may well have had in
mind a much bolder approach.
Over the last four years
N.Z. has raised £35 million on
the British market for urgent
development works. But this is
only a drop in the bucket.
Not long ago the Minister
of Industries and Commerce,
Mr. Halstead, suggested that
N.Z. should borrow £lOO
million overseas at the rate of
£2O million a year for five
years. That would be more
like it.
Membership of the two insti-
tutions has been advocate-d by
the Treasury, the Reserve Bank,
the Associated Banks and the
Associated Chambers: in fact
by almost every organisation
whose advice should carry some
weight. The Government
should no longer allow itself
to .be held back by a few
recalcitrant and shortsighted
members in its own ranks.
Capital Needs
The Commissioner of Works,
Mr. F. M. Hanson, has esti-
mated that essential services and
development works to provide
for a population increasing at
the rate of about 2\ per cent, a
year will take £4OO million over
the next five years.
Whatever the figures may be,
it is certain that, if present
living-standards are to be main-
tained, a very large programme
of both public and private
investment will continue to be
necessary for a long time.
It is difficult to see where
the money is to come from
without substantially increased
overseas assistance. The
Treasury itself has pointed out
that capital requirement is now
so heavy as to make, overseas
borrowing essential.
Voluntary saving, though
high, is lagging behind the
amount required for minimum
investment.
The public will not take
kindly to any attempt to
increase compulsory private
saving by means of higher taxa-
tion or to any intensification of
restrictions likely to divert
capital from the private to the
Government sector.
Taxation and Loans
Taxation from all sources
for 1957 was estimated to pro-
duce a record £ll5 18s. 7d. a
head. The business community
is becoming restive under
capital-issues control. Credit
restraint, which was accepted
reluctantly as a necessary evil,.
now appears, in some measure
at least, to be enabling the
Government to continue gaily
on its way at the expense of
private enterprise. Recent
Government loans have not
aroused <jny great public
enthusiasm, and local bodies,
constantly struggling for
finance, are having to pay
underwriters’ fees to get it.
A Federated Farmers official
recently summed up the situa-
tion when he said : “The short-
age of capital in N.Z. is already
responsible for quite severe
restrictions, and a further
drying-up of our resources
could seriously slow down the
wheels of industry and the rate
of production.”
It is true that overseas
reserves have recovered by
about £lO million in the last
year, but, at £9B million, they,
still seem too low for a period
of high export-income.
Overseas Capital
There have of late been
several suggestions that N.Z.
is not facing up to its major
problem with sufficient vision
and initiative.
The Associated Chambers of
Commerce has urged the
Government to take legislative
and other steps for the active
encouragement of investment in
N.Z. of overseas capital for
both Government and private
purposes.
The current shortage of labor
remains, of course, as a factor
limiting production and
development work, and makes
caution necessary in selecting
purposes for which imported
capital may be wisely employed.
With that reservation, how-
ever, there seems no reason to
fear that overseas borrowing
could be other than beneficial
at the present stage of N.Z.’s
development.
The Monetary Commission
had this to say on the subject:
“Overseas borrowing and over-
seas investment may assist the
growth of industries producing
exports or making products of
types which are at present
imported. If this is so, the
annual interest or dividend pay-
ments and the sums required
for repayment may be more
than offset by the additional
earnings or saving of
exchange. N.Z., for example,
could not have achieved its
present volume of exports and
standard of living without the
overseas funds which it
borrowed in the past.”
There can be little doubt of
N.Z.’s ability to service
additional debt in the future,
Annual interest on overseas
debt, at present takes only a
little over 1 per cent, of export
income.
If sufficient money cannot be
raised on the London market,
N.Z. should certainly recon-
sider the question of joining
the Bretton Woods organisa-
tions, to which every other
member of the British
Commonwealth already
belongs.


Wages and Productivity
[The Democratic Labor Party urges a new approach to the problem of wage-fixing.]
DR. EVATT said of the Democratic
Labor Party’s conference that it
had spent most of its time attack-
ing the Labor movement and in
discussing minor issues; but on the
evidence the conference was not
merely a hate-Evatt session. While it
is possible to criticise many of the D.L.P.
proposals as impractical, they at
least carry the mark of sincerity—which
is more than can be said for most of the
economic proposals advanced by Dr.
Evatt in his last two election campaigns.
“Wage-tangle”
The ’ D.L.P. policy on wages, for
instance, seems to be an attempt to
approach the subject from a national
viewpoint. This is refreshing in a party
which is starting from behind scratch and
has the job of vote-winning before it.
Referring to the ill-feeling engendered by
the discrepancies between State and
Federal basic wages (narrowed-down
since the programme was prepared by the
10s. increase in the Federal wage) the
D.L.P. statement on wages says:
Demands for the removal of these
anomalies and the ending of the so-called
“wage-tangle” require lor their satisfaction
a complete overhaul of the wage-structure,
including the establishment of a “needs”
basis taking into consideration the normal
requirements of the individual regarded
as a person rather than a wage-earner; the
measurement of productivity and its integra-
tion in the wage-system; the reconciliation
of the basic wage and margins; the position
of the single adult and juvenile workers
and the pensioners.
There is in this a recognition of the fact
that wages must be governed by the
capacity of the economy to pay —a
principle insisted on by the Federal Arbi-
tration Court for many years, but not
accepted by some State Governments, and
resisted by official Labor. Claiming that
it supports the concept of an adequate
family wage as the basis .of the wage-
structure, the statement continues:
The starting-point in minimum wage-
fixation should be, we maintain, the single
adult worker (male and female equal-
pay principle). His (or her) “needs”
should include essential needs of food,
clothing and shelter. In addition, there
should be reasonable provision for recrea-
tion, cultural improvements, provision for
marriage and the contingency of adversity
in health or employment. He should be
able to saye towards establishing his
economic independence in productive enter-
prise, if" he so desires. Upon marriage, the
worker should be eligible to receive
adequate allowance for his wife and
children.
The first sentence is an attempt to
secure the acceptance of the principle of
equal pay for the sexes—-advocated by the
A.L.P. —by removing the chief argument
against it, which is that a male wage-
earner most often has to support a family,
while in most cases female workers don’t.
The “needs” and “reasonable provision”
are elements of any desirable wage-
system; it is in their definition and
assessment that most arguments arise.
Despite the reference to adequate allow-
ance for wife and children the programme
doesn’t seem to make any specific addition
to the wage of an “adult single male”
when he becomes an adult married male.
There’s a general statement that “the
family income should be maintained in
real terms by removing from indirect
taxation all those items which enter into
the common household budget, e.g., food,
clothing, furniture, household requisites
—and which, under the present system,
constitute a system of regressive taxation
which transcends the ‘ability to pay’
principle.” '
This is obviously aimed at sales-tax,
but carried to its logical conclusion it
would entail interference with the tariff
and a conflict between preservation of
wage-standards and preservation of
industries and jobs.
Child-endowment
Further provision for families is to be
ensured by an extension of the present
child-endowment scheme. In this the
D.L.P. adopts the schedule advocated by
the A.C.T.U., which would have the
effect of virtually doubling the present
bill for child-endowment. The Budget
estimate for that item for the current
financial year is £57 million, so the
amount required under the D.L.P. plan
would be at least £ll4 million. The new
party’s proposal for raising this sum is
novel. The suggestion is that each
industry should form a Child Endowment
Pool, to be controlled jointly by the
employers and the trade-unions in that
industry. The Federal Government would
hand over to these pools the proceeds of
the payroll tax and the pools would be
empowered to impose a “graduated levy
as ‘Child Endowment Insurance’ on all
unmarried workers under 25.” Pools
w'ould have discretion to increase levies
and payments, “but it is expected at the
start that the payments will be uniform.”
This plan seems to bristle with diffi-
culties. Payroll tax is expected to yield
£49 million, this financial year, so it
would cover close on half the cost of the
extended child-endowment. But it is a
tax that is continually under fire and one
which could easily be due for the axe
whenever the Government feels in a
position to make tax-reductions. The
levy on the under-25’s is apparently the
item referred to elsewhere in the pro-
gramme as a tax designed to “remove
the stimulus to inflation and to assist the
young person to save. Amounts so
‘taxed’ would be refundable at age of
25 or prior marriage.”
It is hard to see how these two con-
cepts are to be reconciled. If the money
collected from the young people is to be
refunded to them (presumably with in-
terest) at 25 or on earlier marriage, how
can it also be used to finance child-
endowment? Quite apart from any
•endowment drawings, by the time the
plan had been running for eight or nine
years the annual refunds would be
roughly equated with contributions.
There would be no fund from which to
pay endowment. If the “graduated levy”
is additional to the “tax,” then the pro-
posals put rather a strain on the goodwill
of the under-25’s, whose votes, from the
practical point of view, cannot be dis-
regarded by a new party.
Considered on its own, the idea of with-
holding a portion of. the pay of adoles-
cents is an excellent idea which could be
beneficial both to the youngsters and to
the economy. It might be wiser, how-
ever, to follow the Army precedent and
call it deferred pay.
Productivity Basis
On much sounder ground is the party’s
case for the productivity approach to
wage-fixation, although it is again rather
difficult to relate it to some other aspects
of its wage-policy. Arguing that produc-
tivity is the measure of economic progress,
the programme states:
No wage-system is sound unless the
money-wage is closely related to the
volume of goods and services produced.
The problem is to protect purchasing-power.
Unless productivity increases at least in
proportion to money-wages, prices rise and
real wages (or purchasing-power) falls.
Ultimately this can lead to a decline in
business activity and employment.
The sponsors of the policy dismiss as
rough generalisations the Federal Arbi-
tration Court’s attempts to relate the
basic wage to capacity-to-pay and advo-
cate the establishment of a scientific
productivity-measurement as the basis of
wage-fixing. They recognise that the
determining of a productivity-index would
require “a large and well-staffed organi-
sation,” but suggest that to minimise the
work the computation should be con-
fined at first to about 20 industrial groups
to be chosen after consultation with the
A.C.T.U. and employers’ organisations.
They propose two sets of index-numbers
—one, the National Productivity Index,
to be the means of adjusting the basic
wage to changes in the national wealth
and the other, in reality a series, to deter-
mine the margins in particular industries.
They claim that this would ensure that
every worker, skilled and unskilled,
would get a minimum wage in proportion
to his ability and in relation to increasing
productivity and the capacity of the
nation to pay, at all times.
There seems to be a rather too easy
assumption that wage-earners would
accept as final the figures of the new
statistical body ; also that the index (yet
to be devised) would be infallible. But
for all that, the proposal does recognise
the fundamental fact that a community
can only pay (and receive) the wages it
can afford.


\0
o^; 0
Si
c' e
f^"
e Q
n
• ■**
w$
m
O
m
m
Si**
it
\ **
11
5
HI
■ •■
m
\*o.* s
-t YT.JP
vH'
fc°
er
€- v «O ll '
o'
another substantial
rise in bonuses
to both Ordinary and Industrial Policyholdeis
Bonuses have risen by up to 15%
above the 1955 rate
%
SE3
AMICUS CERTUS IN RE INCERTA
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
GENERAL MANAGER: M. C. BUTTFIELD. Principal Board: CECIL H. HOSKINS, Chairman; WILLIAM A. MACKAY,
Deputy Chairman; S. G. ROWE; HON. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.; G. GORDON RUSSELL; C. G. CRANE;
VINCENT C. FAIRFAX.
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding £345,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to memWs
K I w^w


Tooma Tooma Tiqer
* <-y F that’s all we’ve got it’s
pretty dead,” says the
JL editor.
“Seasonable scarcity,”
says the news-editor. “No
meat from Parliament. No
meat from the courts.”
“Better get some good grass,
mister.” ‘The editor stares at
the horseshoe of men facing
him over the big desk.
Catches an off-centre look in
the eyes and about-turns in
his chair. Focuses on a
spacey office in the building
opposite.
“Mmm! Affectionate little
thing!”
“Does he ever get any work
done?”
“It’s a wonder / get any
done.” The editor swings
back to his . desk. “Why
don’t they give me a secretary
like that? Must be time to
play up the beaches again,”
he tells the pictorial editor.
“Get some fresh leg-and-
cleavage.” He stares blankly
through a wall-map of Asia for
a long moment. “Where were
we?”
“Sunburnt Skin of Society,”
murmurs the news-editor. “Is
All-over Sunburn Healthy?
Nudity Naughty?”
“Carew got a beach-pub
rooftop pic. that’d start it off
with a bang,” says the pictorial
editor.
“O.K. Start it with a
bang. Now what about this
thing they’re seeing at Tooma
Tooma?”
“Hearing, so far. Mystery
beast roaring like a lion at
night. Women locking doors.”
“Tooma Tooma Tiger, eh?
Who’s our bull-expert?”
“Crocker’s loose with the
courts closed,” says chief of
staff.
“Send him up there. Tell
him to smack it down if it’s
thin. Go along with it, color it
up if it’s really got ’em
jittery.”
4 6'VZ'OU can go through the
/ gamut,” chief of staff
tells Crocker. “Circus-stray,
bunyip-dingo cross, giant tree-
climbing marsupial pig—just
keep it credible. Take young
Heemey along for pics.
0.K.?”
“I’ll bring you back a gum-
leaf,” says Crocker.
'T'OOMA Tooma is a clot
of dazzling tin roofs on a
green pancake of paddocks
ringed by the Horsecollar
Range. Crocker, halts the car
on the high rim of the Horse-
collar and considers it. The
road tacks steeply dowa the
inner flank of the range to
the township and runs flat
through the western gap to
rising cattle-country beyond.
The range is clothed in sub-
tropical jungle with patches
raked raw red by the plough.
There are sloping green squares
of banana-farms and bare
humps where dairy-sheds cling
to spiderweb patterns of cow-
tracks.
“Roaring beasts, eh!” says
young Heemey. “Could be
anything in this scrub. Boy,
she’s solid!”
Crocker lets the car roll and
they go zigging and zagging
down, feeling the descent in
their ears. He pulls up in
front of the hotel. It’s long,
low and casual with wide
verandas and. some purple
bougainvillea climbing on it.
There’s a store and a couple of
bowsers opposite and a post-
office, bank and blacksmith
along the road.
They can hear the shrill
whine of a sawmill. There’s a
grey tracery of stockyards in
the distance. Everything
stands on a lush green mat of
grass. Weatherboard bunga-
lows perch on a green swell
rising back into the timber.
Looks like a church and a
school up there, too. A few
kids running about.
Nobody running about here
in the street. Blue cattledog
asleep on the pub veranda,
somebody talking inside.
Couple of saddle-horses and a
utility parked under a big
shade-tree.
“It’s hot,” says Heemey.
“I’m stuck to the' seat.”
“Unstick the n,” says
Crocker. “Coupla beers
before they clang the cowbell
for lunch.”
Crocker is about mid-
thirties, medium height, fat,
with reddish hair and a red
face. His eyes are clear green


A two-part extravaganza of a
press - investigation in the
Australian countryside; to be
concluded next week*
in th*- ; r folds of flesh. Fat or
not, he has a sharp shrewd
look about him. He wears a
white shirt with tie pulled loose
and grey slacks. Face pers-
piring freely under the pushed-
back panama.
Heemey is thin, sallow,
black-haired, with a lot of
schoolboy showing through.
He comes unstuck from the
car-seat and follows Crocker
across the veranda into the
cool gloom of the bar.
A BIG man in a bulging puce
sportshirt is obviously the
proprietor. He looks like a
huge kookaburra. Black
unblinking eyes and heavy
brows astride an aggressive
beak of a nose. Shock of
stiff grey hair.
“Guay,” he grunts from
deep down insiae. “Warm,
eh? Whatlll it be?”
“Two big beers.”
“Travelling?”
“Only this far,” says
Crocker.
“You’ll be from the news-
paper. Glad to meet you.”
Crocker shakes hands over
the bar. “Crocker,” he says,,
and introduces Heemey.
“I’m Malek,” says the big
man. “Paul Malek. Have this
one with me.”
“How’s the animal?”
Crocker asks.
“I haven’t heard it.”
“You’re the only man in
town that hasn’t!” says one of
the other two men in the bar.
“You’re too fond of the cot,
. Paul, to hear anything goes
on at night.”
“Hear too much about some
things that go on!” Malek says
sourly.
“You’ve heard it?” Crocker
asks the man.
“And how!”
“What’s it like?”
“Like nothing on earth, and
I’ve lived round this part of
the earth all me life.”
“Care to join us?” says
Crocker, and sinks the last inch
in his pot.
“This is Yakka Ritchie,”
says Malek; “and Sven
Hansen. Mr. Crocker, Mr.
Heemey.”
There’s native blood in
Ritchie. He wears a crumpled
sombrero, sloppy silk shirt,
jodhpurs and spurs. Humor
creases the dark face, glows
from deepset eyes. Hansen is
blond and husky and light on
clothing. A broken-down
straw hat, shorts and sandals.
He’s haphazardly handsome,
exudes a sort of lotus-eating
solidity.
“Well, what does it sound
like?”
“Loud,” says Yakka.
“Louder than any Aussie
animal. Like an elephant-size
koala-snort with a bit of
crocodile-cough, stallion-
scream and sawmill mixed up
By JACK LUSBY
in it. Seems to be up in the
air, all over the place. You
can’t pin it.”
“Bit of bomb-whistle in it
too,” Hansen helps out.
“When do you hear it?”
“Late,” says Yakka.
“Towards midnight or a bit
after.”
“How long has this gone
on?”
“Three nights over the past
week.”
“Never before?”
“No.”
“It’s got me beat,” Malek
says. “I didn’t hear it.”
“Strike me brindle,”
says Yakka. “Last night me
horse tore loose and shot
through, and me dog’s had the
jumps all day!”
“Wouldn’t be a jet beating
the place up?” Heemey asks
them.
“No,” says Yakka. “It’s not
like anything. You’ll see.”
OOMEONE beats a gong in
the hotel ..and a girl oomes
into the bar, a startling girl
with long dark-shadowed eyes
and black hair in a bang in
front and hanging in a roll on
her shoulders. She turns a
hot smile on Hansen. Malek
catches the smile and his face
sets hard.
“Do you want to eat now,
Dad?” the girl asks Malek.
“No. Get yours. Show
these gentlemen their room and
table. Mr. Crocker, Mr.
Heemey, my daughter Rose.”
Rose wears a well-filled
white shirt and a flared skirt
with a poinsettia pattern.
There’s sparkle in the smile
she gives Crocker and
Heemey. She follows them, on
to the veranda and leans
against the lattice near the
cattledog while they unload
from the car. Through the
lattice the' sun garbs her in a
lacy pattern of shadow,
accentuating her contours.
Coming up on the veranda
Heemey suddenly unslings his
camera and nudges Crocker.
“Have you heard this thing?”
Crocker asks Rose Malek.
“Why, yes!” she says, rais-
ing birdwing brows over the
long dark eyes, an echo of fear
touching the slow smile, swell-
ing the lace of shadow.
Click!
“What did you do?”
“I just pulled a sheet right
over me and lay there and
shivered. The second night I
put something on and ran out
here on the veranda.”
“D’you think, next time, you
could just run out?” says
Heemey.
“I was scared enough!”
says Rose, laughing at
Heemey.
“It’s scary, eh?” says
Crocker.
“It scares me stiff! Some
of the men keep rifles handy.”
Rose shows them their room,
opening on to the veranda.
They dump their gear and trail
her to the dining-room.
“What time does the mail
leave town?” Crocker wants
to know.
“The mailcar comes through
in about an hour,” Rose says.
“The driver eats here, and any
passengers.”
“Get that picture on the
mailcar, young Heemey,”
Crocker says, “and you’ll
have done your day’s work.
I’ll phone something to go
with it and ask for a tape-
recorder. So far it’s not a
news story, it’s a noise story.
They can newscast it.”
The mailcar comes scuttling
in from the west after lunch
and is reefed back on its
haunches at the hotel. The
driver has a grooved hawk-
face and a shirt the color of
dried blood with yellow spots.
He bales out and grabs a bag
from the postmaster. Crocker
sees a toothy grin crack the
driver’s face as he talks to
Heemey.
“He’s putting the Mona Lisa
on the plane at Turtle Head,”
Heemey tells Crocker. “He’ll
get your recorder off to-
morrow’s plane.”
“Good,” says Crocker,
yawning. “Time for my
siesta.”
“I’ll poke around,” says
Heemey. “See you later.”
“WHAT’S the talk?”
Crocker says later.
“Rose and this Hansen feller
are like that,” says Heemey,
pushing the beer-pots together.
“Hansen doesn’t click with
Malek. Malek thinks Rose
can do a lot, lot better. Hansen
used to live here at the hotel.
Shacks-up now behind the
bakery. Got his place jam-
packed with radio junk, ham
transmitting-setup and all that.
Divides his time three ways—
bakehouse, beer and the dot-
dash.”
“Four ways,” says Crocker.
“Yeah. It’s just the Rose
business Malek doesn’t go for.”
“Hansen got any competi-
tion?”
“Not real serious. Rose is
straight enough to let ’em all
see who she wants.”
“Any new slant on the
beast?”
“No. Just that it’s dead
sure there’s something.”
“Get a pic. of the street like,
it is now,” Crocker says.
('Continued on page 56)


"Essentially Human"
SUMMING-UP ON JUDGES
By R. D. CHARLTON
THE son of a new family
which moved into the
neighborhood was get-
ting acquainted with the
boy next-door. They were
discussing the occupations of
their respective fathers.
The old resident, aged nine,
whose father was living in
retirement, proudly pro-
claimed, “My father’s a gentle-
man.”
The other quickly rejoined,
“My father’s not a ’gentleman.
He’s a judge.”
Which shows how erroneous
the opinion of youth can be,
for, in the eyes of the law, any
judge must be a gentleman.
As well as being gentlemen,
judges are persons who try the
accused as well as sometimes
trying the patience of the
learned counsel who appear
before them.
Although it may not be
obvious to the ordinary lay-
man, judges are essentially
human-beings, who by don-
ning wig and gown and ascend-
ing to the Bench do not thereby
lose the characteristics of
mortal man.
Many years ago, the Honor-
able Mr. Justice Darling said:
“It is a natural result of the
laws not being understood by
those who make them that
persons of legislative capacity
should be employed in their
interpretation and improve-
ment. Wherefore, it is expedi-
ent to understand the decided
cases, but this cannot be done
without examining closely the
personal characteristics of
those who dicide them.”
Such “personal charac-
teristics” are the things that
lend point to the statement that
judges are human-beings, and
those same characteristics give
rise to countless stories that
have been and will continue
to be told for centuries among
lawyers.
Occasionally a judge takes
the bit in his teeth, and the case
out of the hands of the
barristers. He examines and
cross-examines the witnesses,
leaving the barristers little to do
but fiddle with their briefs and
bite their fingernails to the
elbow.
There was once a learned
judge who heard an appeal
case. When the barristers
announced their respective
appearances, the judge turned
to counsel for the appellant and
said: “Now, Mr. Bones, I
assume that your argument will
be this and that. I would like
to say at the outset that I do
not agree with it.” Then he
wiped the smile of anticipated
victory from the face of the
opposing counsel by turning to
him and saying: “And, Mr.
Jones, I assume that your
argument will be this and that
and this. May I say without
further delay that I entirely
disassociate myself from your
contentions.”
This sort of thing is discon-
certing (to say the least) to
any barrister, however eminent.
Judges generally have a
strong sense of humor, without
which they would find it hard
to survive the sometimes
appalling tedium, as well as
responsibility, of their -work.
Which brings to mind the story
of the judge who, on his first
appearance on the Bench after
his appointment, received the
congratulations of the barristers
and solicitors then in court. The
judge concluded his thanks by
remarking: “I only hope that
during the hearing of my cases
there will be no moaning at the
Bar whenT am all at sea.”
One particular judge (now
long deceased) possessed a
pungent wit, rendered more
pungent by the fact that the
barristers and the witnesses
were unable to answer back.
This gave the judge consider-
able scope, and enabled him
eventually to acquire a reputa-
tion as a humorist exceeding
his reputation as a jurist.
Judges, being human-beings,
frequently disagree in their
judgments, and that is one of
the refreshing, as well as
puzzling, things about a court
of law.
’Tis with our judgments as our
watchesi none
Go just alike, yet each believes his
own.
The opposing barristers,
often arguing against their own
convictions, are naturally
expected to disagree, but when
the judges, all eminent men of
the highest learning and in-
tegrity, cannot see eye-to-eye on
a point of law the lowliest law-
student feels that he is not such
a fool as he thought he was,
and applies himself to his
studies with renewed assiduity.
It is generally recognised
that judges are monuments of
patience. They have to sit for
hour after hour day after day
listening to meandering wit-
nesses or discursive barristers
laboring a point which the
judge has mentally decided
against them long before.
Some barristers like to
examine a witness ad infinitum
so as to extract the last
possible grain of information
for the benefit of the court. One
judge, after listening to such
a barrister dragging out of a
witness all manner of irrele-
vancies, wearily asked the
.witness, “Now, witness, would
you mind telling us the name
of your favorite flower?”
Mr. A. P. Herbert, in his mis-
leading cases reported in Un-
common Law, has a mild tilt
at judges—for example, his Law
Lords include Lord Arrowroot,
Lord Flake, Lord Sheep, Lord
Lick, Lord Mildew and Lord
Bottle —but he says:
“These frolics in juris-
prudence are sometimes essays
in reform and are shyly
intended not only to amuse but
to amend. Not to amend his
Majesty’s judges you will
understand from my assiduous
imitation how great is my
respect for the Bench but
some of the queer laws which
it is their lot to administer.”
The biggest judges of all, so
far as British “colonial”
courts are concerned, are the
members of the Judicial Com-
mittee of the Privy Council,
and they are technically not
really judges at all.
They meet in an informal
atmosphere, scorning the legal
trappings of wig and gown,
and combine unparalleled
sagacity and an unequalled
knowledge of the law with a
great deal of commonsense.
The reading of a judgment
of the Judicial Committee of
the Privy Council can be
recommended to any lawyer or
layman seeking lucid logic
allied with sound judgment. It
would be a pity indeed if the.
right of appeal to the Privy
Council were ever abolished.
Every judge has an associate
who looks after his creature-
comlorts and attends him in
court. Most associates are
either barristers or law-students,
but a knowledge of the law is
not really essential to an asso-
ciate. There is at present in
Australia an associate who for
years practised as a veterinary
surgeon, and who now per-
forms his duties of associate
with dignity, decorum and
efficiency.
Our judges dispense justice
with impartiality and wisdom,
although occasionally a litigant
doubts a judge’s capacity, like
the litigious Irish farmer who
was frequently in court, either
as plaintiff or defendant. In a
fencing-dispute, in which he
sued his neighbor', decision was
reserved. When it was given,
his solicitor elatedly tele-
graphed him: “Justice has
triumphed.” The farmer
immediately telegraphed in
reply: “Appeal at once.”
There is a story (indubitably
untrue) about a lawyer who
had a remarkably successful
career in the criminal courts.
On one occasion the judge’s
summing-up to the jury, con-
stituted, in the lawyer’s opinion,
a gross misdirection. The judge
lost patience with the lawyer’s
objections and finally ordered
him to sit down.
“I am quite satisfied I know
the law,” said the judge, in acid
tones.
“I have the utmost faith in
your Honor’s ability,” replied
the lawyer, “but could I just
read this little bit from Hals-
bury’s Laws of England to
show what a damn’ fool Hals-
bury was?”
The importance of my
subject impels me to burst into
verse:
A judge’s is a pleasant lot
God wot.
He sits in majesty serene
On bench above the passing
scene.
Before him secrets are laid
bare ;
He steps on corns and doesn’t
care.
With mind quite free of briefs
and fees,
He may give judgment as he
please.
The only drawback ’bout his lot
Is that he hasn’t always got
The freedom of a man of straw
Who lives his life without the
law.


Probate Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Probate Jurisdiction.
IN THE ESTATE oi FRANCIS
NORMAN O’ROURKE, late of Hard™
in the State of New South Wales, Rail-
way Employee, deceased, intestate. —
Application will be made after fourteen
days from the publication hereof that
administration of the Estate of the
abovenamed deceased may be granted to
THOMAS O’ROURKE, the brother of
the said- deceased, and all notices may
be served at the undermentioned address.
All Creditors in the Estate of the said
deceased are hereby rerinired to send - n
particulars of their claims to the under-
signed.-r-H. C. ItOYLANO, Solicitor,
129 Phillip Street, Sidney.
Misting Frl«nJ
Anvone knowing the whereabout' of
OVERTON PRESTON, formerly of
Hobart or Huonville in Tasmania, t' is*'
communicate with PAGE SEAGKR
HOYLE Ai BETtJUNE, Solicitors. 119
Maoouarie Street, Hobart ?
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
Melbourne jockey Ron
Hutchinson, third on the Vic-
torian jockeys’ list, went to
Adelaide for the St. Leger meet-
ing and won that classic on
Moonsun, from Remur and
Newstone. Hutchinson found
St. Leger day all in all a
pleasant afternoon, winning as
well three other races—on Sir
Ottoman (w.-f.-a. Elder Stakes),
Cherete (Sires’ Produce Stakes),
and Thau m u s (Fisher
Handicap).
• • • •
Nominations closed this week
for the Doomben double —the
£10,500 sprint (July b) and tne
£lO,OOO Cup (July 13). A
£2OO trophy gives the Cup an
extra sparkle. Interest has
livened in the Q.T.C. double—
the £lO,OOO Stradbroke
Handicap (June 15) and the
£12,315 Brisbane Cup (June 17)
—following publication of the
weights. Feature of the big
Brisbane round is an all-out
attempt to scoop the pool by
N.Z. owners. Horses are being
brought from the Dominion
direct to. Brisbane for the
carnival, the latest addition a
stayer in the shape of six-year-
old Straight Lead, a recent
winner at the Waikato meeting.
In addition to winning races
over middle distances, Straight
Lead finished second to Yeman
in the two-miles’ Auckland Cup
last December. He will be
trained in Brisbane by Ivan
Tucker. Another interesting
visitor will be the class sprinter
Supreme Court, a winner of
several races this season. He
h** beaten, among others, Fair
Chance.
• • • ■
Three stylish wins in as
many starts since arriving in
Sydney from New Zealand
stamp the three-year-old filly
No Boots above average ; but
her trainer, A. D. Webster,
doesn’t rate her anything out of
the box. No Boots easily won
the Warwick Farm Revesby
Handicap, and further successes,
under Webster’s shrewd place-
ment. seem assured. Raced by
F.. W. Hathaway, No Boots
is by Pride of Kildare (imp.)
from Ga|t Slipper by Paper
Slipper (imp.) from Mazeppa
by Weathervane (imp.). Gay
Slipoer won four races in New
Zealand.
In successive races at Rose-
hill lightweight jockey N.
McGrowdie found N. Sellwood
a hoodoo. Sellwood, on Lord
Cortauld in the Two-year-old
Handicap and Reign in the
Civic Handicap, narrowly
defeated McGrowdie, astride
Count Charles and Lucky
Stride in the respective events.
Sellwood won the Civic
Handicap last year on Knave,
and became the first jockey to
win this race twice ; and, as it
was with Knave, the win could
be a pointer to bigger things
for Reign.
Olympic Torch, who ran on
strongly to take the Warwick
Farm mid-week Second Maiden
(for two-year-old colts and
geldings), followed Egypt’s
Pride into the Randwick
yearling auction-ring last year.
"Actually it Was a draw , really —YOU Won on points —-
HE Won on a K.O."
Egypt’s Pride realised 3600gns.
(highest of the second day’s
sale, and bid of E. R.
Williams), while Olympic
Torch was bought for lOOOgns.
(bid of his trainer, T. J.
Smith). The Nilo (imp.)-
Joanita gelding, being raced by
E. Bookallil and E. Morris, is
related to several smart
winners, including Civic Pride
and Pride of Egypt. His three-
year-old brother 'CJare Say had
an easy win in Rosehill’s
Auburn Stakes last Saturday ;
Dare Say was a I6oogns.
yearling, Joanita is by Fresco
(imp.) from Lone Joan by
High Art (imp.).
The bid of 1600gns. by
Randwick trainer Cec Rolls for
the Newtown Wonder (imp.)-
Ushereite colt at the Randwick
sales last year secured the
youngster who now races as
Lindenfels, and is a gelding.
Carrying H. Miller’s colors, he
had his initial success in the
Warwick Farm First Maiden
(for two-year-old colts and
geldings); and it shouldn’t be
long before he scores in much
better company. He ran wide
in the straight at Warwick
Farm, but easily defeated
Prince Belvedere, who ran his
best race to date. Usherette is
by Marconigram (imp.) from
Comical (imp.) by Beresford.
Lindenfels is a half-brother to
Guinea (winner of many races
on Sydney and country tracks)
and to Commissionaire (a
winner at Randwick).
Bought at the Randwick
yearling-sales for llOOgns.,
Retentir hasn’t done much
racing; but she’s a filly with
staying prospects. Now at
Rosebery with trainer Reg
Ferris, who prepares her for
Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Lamb,
Retentir is a half-sister to
Monarch, a winner of the
A.J.C. St. Leger. Avenger, a
winner of the AJ.C. Derby,
also figures in the pedigree. The
filly, who won the Warwick
F,arm midweek Two-year-old
Maiden for fillies, is by
Genetout (imp.) from Echo
(unraced) by Double Remove
(imp.) from Tittle Tattle by
Constant Son (imp.).
The jackpot-tote scheme is
expected to be' introdued at
Randwick in mid-June, operat-
ing on the first five events.
Super-optimists will attempt
to pick the first two winners,
and,' if successful, will
exchange the ticket for one
nominating their third selec-
tion. This ticket will, in turn,
be exchanged, in the event of a
successful third choice, for
another covering the investor’s
two final stabs at the quintet.
A benefit race-meeting to be
held at Randwick on Wednes-
day, May 22, is in aid of Royal
Prince Alfred and St. Vincent’s.
Main events are the St.
Vincent's Handicap (six fur-
longs) and the Royal Prince
Alfred Handicap (one mile).
The noms. include many smart
gallopers, and it should be a
good afternoon.
It takes a pretty good three-
year-old to carry top weight in
a welter and win easing up by
two lengths, which is what
Great Bronze did in last Satur-
day’s Monash Welter. Early
this year the handsome son of
Nebris (imp.) had won three
consecutive races in the style
of an outstanding colt. His
more recent form had been
indifferent, but on Saturday’s
run he could develop into a
real top-liner.
• • • •
Most racegoers at Caulfield
last Saturday left the course
convinced that they had seen
the winner of this year’s Grand
National Steeplechase. Con-
ceding from 131 b. to 291 b. to
her rivals, Pedro’s Pride carried
11.1 to win the Gippsland
Steeple by eight lengths and
clip a second off the track
record. A six-year-old by
Moonee Valley Cup winner


between
Ourselves
fgd
Have You Ever Tried
This ?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Pis
Write for our
50 th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E: KITCHING
PTY. LTD..
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Don Pedro out of an unnamed
Gortland mare, Pedro’s Pride
is one of the biggest mares
racing, and well up to the
heavy weight she will get in
the National! Saturday’s
effortless victory was her first
start over the fences since she
finished second to The Settler
in last year’s Australian
Steeple, and she will be all the
better for the run. Her win
must have been a tonic for
her 80-year-old trainer Ted
Miller, who recently left hos-
pital after fjeing laid-Up for
five months following a car
accident.
Following his good form
during the Sydney autumn car-
nival, N.Z. sprinter On Parade
was heavily supported to win
the Lonsdale Handicap at
Caulfield. Admirably ridden by
R. Skelton, who has had more
than his share of criticism both
in Sydney and Melbourne, On
Parade seemed certain to land
the money, until Meath dashed
out of the ruck to hit the front
a stride or two from the post.
The winner is the most
improved sprinter in Mel-
bourne. For a long time his
racing was confined to country
tracks, but, since tackling the
city sprinters, he has won twice
and been second once. In all,
his record reads six wins and
three minor platings from his
last nine starts. A four-vear-
old gelding by Pamphilos
(imp.) out of Crown Seal,
Meath is owned and trained by
Mr. G. Hanlon, member of a
family which has successfully
combined the preparation of
gallopers and pacers. Mr.
Hanlon’s late brother, Fred,
owned former champion pacer
Avian Derby.
Punters had mixed luck in
the two divisions of the La
Trobe Stakes for two-year-olds.
Winner of the first heat was the
lightly raced Merry Hunter,
who went out unbacked at the
nominal quote of 66-to-l. It
will be a long time before he
starts at such extravagant odds
again. Badly drawn at number
16, Merry Hunter was able to
match the heavily backed
favorite Misty Anne for early
pace, and still keep enough in
reserve to beat off all
challengers in the straight. A
good-looking chestnut colt by
Makarpura (imp.) out of
Bibulous, he cost Mr. A. H.
Stevens 500gns. at the Mel-
bourne spring sales in 1955.
Makarpura was by Big Game,
who was unbeaten in five starts
as a two-year-old, and who
was sired by the undefeated
Bahram, who won the Derby,
St. Leger, Two Thousand
Guineas and £43,086 in
stakes.
Second division of the La
Trobe went to Good Summer,
only favorite to score in the
enght-event programme. An
N.Z.-bred gelding by Summer-
time out of Good Sense, Good
Summer is regarded as Vic-
toria’s rriain hope in the spring
classics, for which geldings, arc
how eligible. He has won three
of his last four races, and on
Saturday overcame difficulties
to win with 9.0 in the excep-
tionally fast time of 1.1 H.
However, he was fully extended
to defeat second placegetter,
Transtar, who ran an excellent
race from an outside barrier-
position. Transtar is a New-
town Wonder colt out of Nisi
Prius. Although his sire’s
stock are more noted for speed,
Transtar shapes like a stayer,
and it will not surprise if he
develops into a Derby colt.
Mick Evangelista, who does
most of his riding around
country tracks, scored his first
metropolitan double when he
won on Andonni in the mile-
and-a-half Heroic Handicap,
chief flat-race on the Caulfield
programme. Evangelista’s
success didn’t arouse much
enthusiasm from the crowd:
his first winner, Merry Hunter,
was completely friendless in
the betting, while Andonni—
at 20 to I—had1 —had few supporters.
Andonni is a Randwick
winner, but his Melbourne
form had been very poor
before last Saturday’s win.
Sitting behind pacemaker Sun-
worship until the approach to
the straight, he dashed clear
to win by a comfortable two
lengths. Favorite in the race
was Sunium, who was on trial
for a start in the Brisbane Cup.
Although he chased Andonni
home, Sunium would need to
show great improvement to
have any chance against the
much stronger opposition he
would meet at Eagle Farm.
* * *
Ten three-year-olds quali-
fied in the previous week’s
heats for a run in the £4OOO
N.S.W. Pacers’ Derby, run at
Harold Park on Friday night.
Sires’ Produce winner First
Knight, winner of his heat and
tipped to improve on that run,
was a warm favorite ; the N.Z.
colt Dignus, second to First
Knight in the heat, was second
elect.
• • • •
Driver Caffyn raced First
Knight from his pole-line draw
to an early lead, from Night
Reveller, the others in hot
pursuit. Bangaroo La#s was
soon pestering near the lead,
then Diabolo Don swept to
sit outside the pacemaker;
Litten sat on Dignus, trailing
them, waiting. A lap from
home, and Smith, impatient on
Bangaroo Lass, swung her three
wide and raced past the
leaders ; Dignus was left with
two furlongs to run her down,
and he got her measure by a
half-length.
• • • •
It was a gruelling run ; they
went 3.7 f over the 1 If furlongs,
a new Derby distance, record-
ing the second-fastest mile-gait
for the race. Dignus is a plain
bay colt t— Fallacy from
Alouette. Trainer-driver J. D.
Litten, trainer also of the great
Caduceus, had won an N.Z.
Derby with Fallacy. Bangaroo
Lass, rating 2.8 after a hard
run, proved herself one of the
gamest fillies the sport has
known ; more patiently driven,
she’d have won. General
Scott ran on with a purpose,
for third ; First Knight had a
hard run in front, and was
looking for a leaning-post in
the last lap.
It could have been visitors’
night at Harold Park on Fri-
day. Outside of Dignus, three
other “foreigners” took first
money—S.A. pacer Interpreta-
tion, the Qualifying ; Victorian
Cari Bar, the Harold Park
Handicap; and another Vic-
torian, Maybe, the Burwood
Handicap. A dumpy little four-
year-old bay mare, Maybe is
banned in Melbourne for
barrier roguery. She left the
mark like a rocket on Fri-
day, shot to the front and
spent the rest of the race
increasing her lead, eventually
to win by eight lengths and rate
a sizzling 2.8 f for the Ilf
furlongs.
And Sundry Sports
Only one of the 1949-50
cricket-team to South Africa is
to return with Craig's 1957-58
side, this time as vice-captain—•
Neil Harvey. One other was in
the running for selection but
missed —fast-bowler Ray Lind-
wall. (Of the rest of Hassett’s
team, only Parliamentarian
Sammy Loxton remains in first-
class cricket in Australia.)
Harvey topped the Test batting-
averages last tour (660 runs,
highest score 178, average 132),
and he could do it again.
Sixteen players were to have
gone this year, till the South
African Cricket Association
decided that one of ’em could
stop at home. Worth noting,
though, that there were only 14
in the original ’49 lot, increased
to 15 when, after Johnston was
injured in a car-accident, the
“surprise omission’’ of that year
(one Keith Miller) was flown
over to join the team. There
were two surprise omissions
this year Queensland’s
“Slasher” Mackay and N.S.W.’s
Norm O’Neill. Well as he
bowled in Shield cricket last
year, one could hardly really
describe Lindwall’s omission
as a “surprise” ; he’s not the
“scourge” of batsmen he used
to be.
Mackay has reason for his
reported “bitter disappoint-
ment” at being left out, for
though he failed hopelessly
against Laker (he got a “pair”


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. —Is Divorce.
TO EDNA ROSS late ot 286 Trafalgar
Street Annandale. —TAKE NOTICE that
ERNEST WILLIAM ALEXANDER
ROSS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4240 of 1954 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is
asking foi the exercise of the Court’s
Discretion under Section 19 (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry King
Street Sydney by the 15th day of Ju!y
1957 anil obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESS RS.
CARLING, GARLING & MOORE, Soli-
citors, 9-13 Bligh Street, Sydney.—J.
T 'o'-nu'\i Wegistrar.
im, OiruliilL COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO FAY ZABRANA late of 2 Elizabeth
Bay Road King’s Cross Respondent and
to BELA FLORIAN late of 2 Elizabeth
Bay Road King’s Cross Co-respondent.—
TAKE NOTICE that FRANK ZABRANA
has filed a Petition No. 1256 of 1956
praying for a Divorce from FAY ZAB-
RANA on the grounds of her adultery
with BELA-FLORIAN If you or either
of you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney New South Wales
by the I9th day of July 1957 and obtain
a copv of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. WARWICK JOHNSON
DYCE & TUCKFIELD, Solicitors, of
34 Church Street, Newcastle, in the said
State.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
The KEROSENE
used by the
ANTARCTIC EXPEDITION
f
WM
m GORAUTE
burns WARMER,
CLEANER, BETTER
H*
V
.
£
* It's easier— and there**
a saving if you bring your
own container.
You can buy Cora/ite
Kerosine by the tin* where
you see these pumps . . .
SUPE3
ALSO OBTAINABLE AT SELECTED STORES,
C.O.R AGENTS AND DEPOTS
Marketed by THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD, an associate of
The British Petroleum Company Ltd CFOS
in the fourth Test at Man-
chester just when his renowned
defence was most needed), he
did top the first-class averages
in England, and made over 800
runs in the last Shield season.
Still, as is often said, everyone
can’t be picked ; and the team
has other batsmen who are
equally gifted, equally solid and
prolific and, withal, more
attractive to watch.
Much more inexcusable is the
omission of O’Neill. The St.
George batsman should have
been in the team whoever else
be dropped. Not only has he
been making runs, both here
and in N.Z., but there’s the
undoubted touch of genius in
the way he always makes them.
Apart from which, the team
as a whole looks strong. There
is one reason for -concern-
three of the four pace-bowlers
chosen have “broken-down” in
the past year or so. But that
may look after itself.' Qf
course, South African cricket
has gone right ahead since
1949-50, and the home team
will be much harder to beat
than Nourse’s team, which was
annihilated.
* * *
When the makeshift country
League teams pack - down
against city clubs, it is expected
that the city clubs’ smoother
combinations will win out; it
was that way over the weekend,
with, generally, cricket-scores,
the ball given plenty of air and,
in the turmoil, some good foot-
ball. In the main match, at the
S C.G. on Saturday, St. George,
down 9-21 at lemons, came
with a burst in the second half
to best Newcastle, 42-23. In the
other Saturday games, Wests
trampled on Northern Division,
43-22, with centre Harry Wells
scoring three fine tries ; Parra-
matta trounced Monaro, 41-6 ;
Coalfields got the country’s
only verdict—over Canterbury,
15-9.
In the Sunday games, New-
town beat Riverina, 30-19;
Easts scraped in over North-
West, 15-12; North Sydney
nosed South - West, 20 -19 ;
Souths piled-on 41 to Southern
Division’s 27; Manly just
edged North Coast, 44-6;
Balmain got the best of
Western Division, 21-17.
* * *
The topsy-turvy nature of the
V.F.L. competition was well
exemplified by the last two
rounds: every winning team of
the third round bar Colling-
wood was beaten in the fourth
round on Saturday. Which,
from the point of view of
interest, is all to the good.
Hawthorn, beaten the week:
before by not-so-high-up
North, ups and downs Mel-
bourne, 6.15-4.9, in a hard,
gruelling game; the Hawks
now top of the ladder again.
Carlton, stopped by Footscray
in the third round, in turn
stopped Geelong, the only team
to have lost its last two games,
15.12-13.14. ’Scray, which had
been on top of the table, was
rough-handled by Efsendon,
i 1.14-4.14 (the Dons had been
similarly handled by Mel-
bourne the previous week).
Richmond tossed Fitzroy 16.10-
10.31, ’Roy’s defeat, as can be
seen, due to atrocious bad kick-
ing. St. Kilda was too fast for
North 16.5-12.12, and ’Wood
had- just enough in hand to
beat South, 14.9-11.17.
* * *
N.S.W. won the two Rugby
Union games against Queens-
land in Brisbane —the first,
played at night under flood-
lights, easily, 27-3 ; the second,
on Saturday afternoon, less
comfortably, 25-16. (N.S.W.
meets the All Blacks at Sydney
Sportsground this Saturday.)
... .In Sydney’s Rugby Union,
Gordon overwhelmed a twice
or three-times reshuffled St.
George, which sadly missed
Test-captain Cameron’s inspira-
tion, 22-3 ; and Gordon thus
ousts the Saints from top bill-
ing. Drummoyne unexpectedly
knocked Randwick, which had
half-a-dozen players in Bris-
bane, 12-9, Manly accounted
for University 18-8, East just
got there from a plucky North
24-22, and lowly Parramatta
beat lowlier Eastwood 16-3.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Barkers and
Biters, by Robert Kaleski. —6506.
To buy copy of Handy Hints for
the Farm. —6507.
Information Sought
(1) What was and what were the
cit cumstances of Johnson's letter to
Lord Chesterfield ? (2) What, was
Jonnson’s definition of “crats"?
(l) In 174/ Johnson had been
employed by several eminent book-
sellers to produce a Dictionary of the
English Language. They agreed to
pay him 15-hunctred guineas, a not
vciy large sum considering the time
it would take him and the paid
assistance that he had, necessarily,
to call on.
And so he addressed the pros-
pectus of the Dictionary to Lord
Chesterfield. “Chesterfield,” writes
Macaulay in his article for the
Encyclopaedia Britannica, “had long
been celebrated for the politeness of
h,s manneis, the builiancy or his
wit and >he delicacy of his taste. He
was acknowledged to be the finest
speaker in the House of Lords....
He received Johnson’s homage with
tne most winmng affability, and
requited it with a few guineas,
bestowed doubtless in a very gracious
manner, but was by no means
desirous to see all his carpets
blackened with the London mud,
and his soups and wines thrown
to right and left over the gowns of
line ladies and the waistcoats of fine
gentlemen, by an absentminded
scholar, who gave strange starts and
uttered strange growls, who dressed
like a scarecrow and ate like a
cormorant. During some time
Johnson continued to call on his
patron, but, after being repeatedly
told by the porter that his lord-
ship was not at home, took the
him and ceased to present himself
at the inhospitable door.
When, however, the Dictionary
was, in 1755, at last completed, it
was generally supposed that it would
be dedicated to the eloquent Lord
Chesterfield. Says Macaulay: “Lord
Chesterfield well knew the value ot
such a compliment; and therefore,
vben the day of publication drew
near, he exerted himself to soothe
by a show of zealous and at the
same time of delicate and judicious
kindness, the pride which he had so
cruelly wounded.... In two succes-
sive numbers of ‘The World’ the
Dictionary was, to use the modem
phrase, puffed with wonderful skill.”
i he letter, then, written on Feb.
7, 1755, was the writer summonsing
his last ounce of dignity fp rebuii
the belated advances of the earl.
“My Lord,
“I have been lately informed, by
the proprietor of ‘The World,’ that
two papers, in which my dictionary
is recommended lo the public, were
written by your lordship. To be so
distinguished is an honor, which
being very little accustomed to favors
h> the great, I know not well how
to receive, or in what terms to
acknowledge.
“When, upon some slight
encouragement, I first visited your
lordship, I was overpowered, like
the rest of mankind, by the enchant-
ment of your address, and could not
forbear to wish that I might boast
myself Le vainqueur du vainqueur de
la terre; —that I might obtain that
legard for which I saw the world
contending; but I found my attend-
ance so little encouraged, that
neither pride nor modesty would
suner me to continue it. When I
had once addressed your lordship in
public,. 1 had exhausted all the art
of pleasing which a retired and
uncourtly scholar can possess. I had
done ah that I couid; and no man
is well pleased to have his ail
neglected, be it ever so little.
“Seven years, my lora, have now
passed since 1 waited in your out-
ward rooms, or was repulsed from
your door; during which time
1 have been pusnmg on my wont
through difficulties, of which it is
useless to complain, and have
brought it, at last, to the verge of
publication, wnhout one act of
assistance, one woid oi encourage-
ment, or one smile of favor. Such
treatment 1 did not expect, for i
have never hau a patron oeiore.
“I he shepherd in ‘Virgil’ grew at
last acquainted with Love, and found
him a native of the roots.
“Is not a patron, my lord, one
who looks with unconcern on a
man struggling for lire in the water,
and, when he has reached ground,
encumbers him with help? The
notice which you have been pleased
lo take ot my labors, hau it been
early, had been kind; but it has been
delayed till 1 am indiiierent, and
cannot enjoy it; till 1 am solitary,
and cannot impan it; till l am
known, and do not want it. I hope
it is no very cynical asperity, not to
confess obligations where no benent
has been received, or to be unwill-
ing that the public should consider
me as owing that to a patron, which
Providence has enabled me to do
for myself.
“Having carried on my work thus
far with so little obligation to any
favor of learning, 1 shall not be dis-
appointed though 1 shall concluoe
it, if less possible, with less; for 1
have been long wakened from that
dream of hope, in which I once
boasted myseit with so much exalta-
tion,
“My Lord, yeur lordship’s most
humble,
“Most obedient servant,
“Sam. Johnson.”
The Dictionary appeared without
a dedication.
(2) From the Dictionary: “A grain
which in England is generally given
to horses, but in Scotland supports
the people.”
* * * *
Some information on the Pulitzer-
Prizes ?
The Pulitzer Pnzes w e r e
established in a bequest to Columbia
brnveisuy uy
are awarded annually—for work
done during the previous year—by
the trustees of the university on
recommendation of the Advisory
Board of the School of Journalism.
The Graduate School of Journalism,
located at Columbia University, was
founded and. endowed by Pulitzer;
it was opened in Sept., 1912, the
year after Pulitzer’s death.
The prizes are as follows:
Meritorious public service —-for
disinterested and meritorious public
service rendered by a United States
newspaper (a gold-medal); reporting
—a distinguished example of local
reporting, die test being the quality
of local news-stories written under
pressure of edition-time ($1000);
editorial-writing —for distinguished
editorial-writing, the test of
excellence being clearness of style,
moral purpose, sound reasoning and
power to influence public opinion
($ 1000); cartoon for a
distinguished example of a
cartoonist’s work ($r000); news-
photography —for an outstanding
example of news-photography
published in a daily newspaper,
open to amateurs as well as photo-
graphers regularly employed by
newspapers, press-associations or
syndicates ($1000); Pulitzer Prizes in
letters: novel —for distinguished
fiction, published in boox-form
during the year, by an American
author, preferably dealing with
American life ($500); drama —for
rn original American play which
shall represent the educational value
and power of the stage, preferably
dealing with American life ($500);
history —for a distinguished book of
the year on the history of the United
States ($500); biography or auto-
biography —for the best American
biography teaching patriotic and
unselfish services to the people
($500); poetry —for a distinguished
volume ot verse by an American
author ($500); Pulitzer Prize in
music —for a distinguished musical
composition in the larger forms
of chamber, orchestral or choral
music or for any operatic work
including ballet, performed or
published during the year, by a
composer of established residence
in the United States ($500).
* * * *
(1) Who has kicked the most goals
in the one season in the Victorian
football League competition? (2)
List of those who have topped the
V.F.k. goalkicking since, say, 1920 ?
(1) Bob Pratt, of South Melbourne
—l5O goals in 1934. (2) 1920, G.
Bayliss (Richmond), 63 ; 1921, W. H.
Lee (Collingwood) and C. Rankin
(Geelong), 64 [W. H. Lee had also
headed the list nine times between
1907 and 1919]; 1922, H. Clover
(Carlton), 54; ’23, G. Stockdale
(Essendon), 68; ’24, J. Moriarty
(Fitzroy), 82; ’25, L. Hagger
(Geelong), 78; ’26, G. Coventry
(Collingwood), 83; ’27, Coventry,
97; ’2B, Coventry, 89; ’29,
Coventry, 124; ’3O, Coventry, 118;
’3l, H. Vallence (Carlton), 86; ’32,
G. Moloney (Geelong), 109; ’33, R.
Pratt, 109; ’34, Pratt, 150; ’35,
Pratt, 103; ’36, W. Mohr (St. Kilda),
101; ’37, G. Coventry (Coll.), 72;
’3B, R. Todd (Coll.), 120; ’39, Todd,
120; ’4O, J. Titus (Richmond), 100;
’4l, N. Smith (Melb.), 80; ’42, L.
White (South Melb. and Geelong),
80; ’43, R. Harris (Rich.), 63; ’44,
F. Fanning (Melb.), 87; ’45, Fan-
ning, 67; ’46, W. Brittingham (Ess.),
66; ’47, F. Fannins (Melb.), 97; ’4B,
L. White (Geelong). 86; ’49. J. Cole-
man (Ess.), 100; ’5O, Coleman, 120;
’5l, G. Goninon (Geelong), 86; ’52,
J. Coleman (Ess.), 103; ’53, Cole-
man, 97; ’54, J. Collins (Footscray),
84; ’55, N. Rayson (Geelong), 80;
’56, W. Young (St. Kilda), 56.
* * * *
Why is the Rocky River (New
England, N.S.W .) also known as the
Timbarra River ? Who discovered
and named the river?
Unable to trace who discovered
and named it, or why it has the two
names. Topographical features were
usually named by explorers, sur-
veyors or local people. The
honorary research-secretary of the
Royal Australian Historical Society,
to whom the question was also
referred, believes that the name
Rocky River was of local origin;


Come in and drive the
NEW HOLDEN UTILITY
C 3
I
m
Holden Coupe Utility £9lO plus tax
This new Holden Coupe Utility not only looks hand o ne, but is designed to bring
you better driving comfort, better handling ease and famous Holden performance
and economy. One short demonstration drive will prove this to you.
Ren! driving comfort
You and two adults sit in comfort on a
57" wide seat, upholstered in tough,
PVC plastic covered fabric, as easy to
wash as the PVC plastic headlining.
You enjoy a road hugging ride, the
result of new front suspension with
stabiliser bar, new 6 leaf rear springs
and a longer wheelbase of 105".
Better handling ease
Take this new Holden out on the road.
Notice the firm, light steeri lg brought
about by the new re-circulating ball
steering system. The smaller turning
circle of only ft. greatly assists
handling this vehicle in tight places.
Another big factor in safe, easy parking
and backing is the increased visibility
from the new, curved windshield and
the new, wide, wrap-around rear
window.
Srsßter overaSß economy
Find a hill and demonstrate to your-
self the power of the 6 cylinder, 21 h.p.
Holden engine. This fine engine gives
you flexible power and an overall
operating economy which makes
Holden a pleasure to own. Not only
do you get Holden’s notable petrol
economy, but the famous Holden
dependability keeps your maintenance
costs down to a minimum.
Whether you are a businessman or
on the land, the Utility that can do the
best job for you is HOLDEN*—
Australia’s Own Utility. Contact your
local Holden dealer and arrange that
demonstration drive right away.
See your Holden dealer about the
GMAC Hire Purchase Plan • “Air
Chief ” Car Radios have been specially
designed for Holden.
HOLDEN* Australia's Own UtMiiy
*REGD.
GENERAL MOTORS -HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE . SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE . PERTH
SOLD AND SERVICED BY HOLDEN DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
he has no record of its being named
by any explorer. In the late 1820’s,
he continued, the Surveyor-General
instructed surveyors engaged in
topographical work to try to find
out the native names of streams,
hills, mountains, etc., and these
names were to be put on parish-
maps. Often a native name was
added where a local name was
already in use—probably the case
here. The research-secretary adds
that, in an 1866 gazetteer, he found
a tributary of the Clarence River
marked as the Tabulam or Rocky
Rivulet; also, that the 1848 “Well’s
Gazette” does not list the name
Rocky River, though about four
years later a gold-rush known as
the Rocky River rush took place.
Brief Answers
D.D.: (1) Miller and Macartney’s
Australian Literature (1956) lists
tluee: William js.elty, who wrote a
drama in three acts, “Marie
Antoinette” (1875); William Henry
Kelly, who wrote a three-act
comedy, “The Triumph of Instinct,”
by “An Unsafe Guide” (1921), and
a work ot hetion, Winifred Wakes
Up and Other Things Happen
(1933); and William Patrick Kelly,
who wrote a work of fiction, The
Assyrian Bride (1917). No other
particulars of any of the three are
given. (2) The same book lists a
Charles Baker, who wrote Some
Fragments of the Leisure Hour
Lines (1889-91), separately printed
pamphlets issued in nine parts, and
bound under the above title. Each
part was entitled “Leisure Hour
Lines.” Part VIII contained a prose
supplement, “Summer Wanderings
in Tasmania in 1889”... .J.G.: (1)
See article, “Water,” by Prof. C. H.
Munro, professor of civil-engineering
at the N.S.W. University of Tech-
nology, in B. 7/12/’55. (Copy has
been posted.) (2) Yes. Prof.
Munro’s article deals with such a
symposium—one organised by the
N.S.W. University of Technology,
called “The Water Resources of
Australia Their Control and
Development,” and held in Nov.,
1955... .K.J.H.: Clarchen is the
heroine of Goethe’s historical
tragedy Egmont; she is a bright,
winsome and loyal girl, devoted to
Egmont. Scott is said to have
borrowed her traits for his Amy
Robsart (in Kenilworth).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
A ante and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
N.N.: It might be better to whistle
to the girl in the arcade than to
go off and write poetry about her.
.... A.G.: Nearly.... B.H.: Here
you go, then: —
ODE TO A BAEDCOOT.
Rice-farmers do not talk very much,
They have so little to say ;
They chat on the price of rice and such
And the value of clover-hay.
But on one subject they speak with
ferocity,
And say if • they could they would
shoot
Every felonious feathered atrocity.
That sagaciously sinful baldcoot.
Now Creation’s plan is to use
Every creature in a wondrous scheme
But the baldcoot is the devil’s ruse
To make the rice-growers blaspheme.
The farmer says he’s financially worse
And there are less rice-puds and
custards,
Because of the terrible curse
Of these villainous baldheaded s.
. ...E.N.: “My style may seem
unusual.” Well, you’ve a flair ‘for
apt description... .N.M.R.: Gossip-
ing shoemaker given the boot
J.L.: Your “Creature from Jupiter”
is harmless enough... .S.M.: Said
good-night to “Irene” C.P.:
Wobbles around like a stranded
jellyfish... .T.R.: No p10t....
G.G.: “Calypso Cal” last seen rock-
’n’-rollin’ down George-street
PH.: .Your “Evils of Alcohol”
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.]
presented to the office-boy... .D.D.:
Slick as briiliantine... .A.0.W.:
“Amid the city’s toilsome rush of
day.” That’s a very toilsome start.
.... V.H.: Poem on the fairyland of
Copeland needs donging with a
magic wand C.M.K.: Anzac
poem arrived too late; there's a
touch of music in it....M.8.: The
hame-tree shines pleasantly in a
verse otherwise rather pale and
faded S.C.: An amiable oddity.
... .G.M.H.: Bushlires, like storms,
are a very large subject; better
caught in an image than a flame-by-
flame description... .Greyfriars:
‘‘Would you please tear this to
pieces?” Right, we will; and let
it waft away gently on the breeze
that caressed the trees J.D.:
Heavy going... .G.S.R. (Ireland):
Some pleasant verses among them
but we prefer Australian themes.
....M.C.M.: The best thing you
can do with “Potatoes” is roast it.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
TWO CHINAS: TWO VIEWS
'T'HE U.S. Government’s pro-
posal to review the
embargo on the sale of
certain goods to the Soviet and
to Red China will not, in the
editorial view of “New York
Times,” affect America’s refusal
to recognise the Chinese Com-
munist Government. Britain,
of course, has recognised Red
China for some years, and
British and Japanese pressure
is given as part-reason for
American willingness to recon-
sider the trade-ban.
The main anomaly in the
embargo—and one of Britain’s
arguments for review—is, New
York “Herald Tribune” com-
ments, “that the list, as it per-
tains to the Soviet Union and
its satellites, is more liberal
than the list affecting China. If
Moscow is importing increasing
quantities of copper wire, a pro-
duct which is embargoed for
China, why can they not trade
directly with China, since the
Soviet Union’s surplus imports
are obviously reaching that
market anyhow? That, at least,
is one line of argument.”
Further, the “Herald
Tribune” comments, “the needs
of America’s allies and the fact
that the embargo against Red
China simply does not work
(since the goods the Chinese
Reds want reach them through
the U.S.S.R.) are convincing
arguments for relaxing trade-
barriers. Moreover, there is
always the possibility that if
Red China were not so com-
p'etely dependent on the Soviet
Union in the economic realm,
it might not be so completely
faithful in the political sphere.
The question is fundamentally
a simple one: which is harmed
most by the ban, the Com-
munists or the free world? At
present it is the latter. It is
time to change.”
British View
Giving a British viewpoint,
London “Economist” suggests
that the American proposals
“go some way, but not all the
way, towards meeting the views
of Britain and other countries.
“At present the list of goods
that cannot be shipped to China
contains over 400 items, more
than twice as many as the
Soviet -bloc list contains.
Britain has long wanted to end
this strange discrimination by
removing from the China list
all items that can be shipped to
the Soviet bloc.
“The United States agrees
that one list should serve for
both areas, but the system of
control proposed would still
discriminate against China. It
would remove from control
certain ‘non-strategic’ items on
the China list, and place on the
Soviet -bloc list the remaining
items still embargoed for China.
Such items would then become
subject to supervisory control
for export to the Soviet bloc,
and could be restricted in
London "Daily Express”
“WHAT A MARVELLOUS DAY!”
quantity if there were subse-
quent grounds for believing that
’■ the goods were being tran-
shipped to China.”
American Attitude
An American opinion again
(“New York Times”) clarifies
the U.S. attitude in refusing to
recognise China on the one
hand, yet conceding that
Western countries should be
permitted freer trade-relations
with the Chinese Communists.
“Most Americans realise,”
the “N. Y. Times” comments,
“that Britain, with her position
at Hong Kong, has a far greater
stake in trade with China than
does the United States. It
would be naive to suppose that
the Britons are not conscious of
this stake, even when they
argue their case on the ground
of sheer ‘realism,’ since Red
China can obtain goods that
the free world supplies to the
Soviet Union.
“Japan likewise has a stake
in the mainland trade. That
stake is not as large as it is
often supposed to be in this
country [the U.S.] and repre-
sented to be in Japan. The
consciousness of it looms large,
however, in Japanese political
and economical thinking and
must be taken into account.
“The United States, on the
other hand, is in a position to
be consistent and logical. Our
policy represents, we are con-
vinced, the thought and feeling
of the vast majority of
Americans. The United States
does not equate trade with Red
China with trade with the
Soviet Union —as does Britain
—for the simple reason that the
United States regards Red
China as a declared enemy,
which the Soviet Union, in
spite of its consistent unfriendli-
ness, is not.
“Red China is also still the
enemy of the United Nations,
and its consistent violations of
the armistice agreement are acts
of war against the United
Nations and against the
United States, which has borne
the brunt of its cause. To
most Americans trading with
Red China is trading with the
enemy.
“To Americans the issue is
still quite different from that
which seems to confront the
Britons and the Japanese, and
some others. With us, situated
as we are and where we are,
it is not a matter of economics
or politics. It is a matter of
morals.”
Formosa
There remains “White
China,” the Nationalist Chinese
Government under Chiang
Kai-shek on Formosa, sup-
ported and recognised by the
U.S. Government. In a report
of his visit to Formosa,
William Teeling, M.P., writing
in London “Time and Tide,”
would appear to support the
American attitude rather than
the British.
“General Chiang Kai-shek,”
Teeling comments, “still rules
over 10,500,000 people with
an army trained and equipped
by the Americans and now
considered by them to be the
best army in Asia for its size,
which is nearly twice that of
the British Army.
“Formosa what do we
[Britain] know of it? Today
it is the only part of Asia where
Great Britain has n.o diplomatic
representation. For seven years
we have sent no official visitors
there, no naval, military or air
missions; even to say a
friendly word about the
Chinese in Formosa —who were
our allies during the war and
were staunchly supported by
the Labor Party in their fight
against Japan before the war —-
is considered very bad form at
Westminster, in Fleet-street and
in some parts of the City
[London’s financial centre].
“General Chiang and the
remains of his Army. 600,000
strong plus 300,000 of the best
brains of China civil
servants, members of the Legis-
lature, the judiciary and the
leaders of university thought
—fled to Formosa and set-up
their regime there. To us
[Britain] they had never done
any harm, except to make
it difficult for our traders to
make more money, they had
been our allies in difficult
times and were great lovers of
England. Yet . suddenly, in
their direst need, they found
themselves treated here more
as enemies and traitors than
as allies; even their Ambassa-
dor and his staff were
ignominiously kicked out of
the London Embassy.


try it...
you'll Ilk© if!
WtIMIHW
»*o
the
Iciger
tREWEO AND BOTTLED IT
TOOTH & CO LIMITED
X5.165.1S
“Not so with the
Americans, the Canadians, the
Australians, the New
Zealanders and the South
Africans. These countries
continued to aid General
Chiang. That they have
succeeded over the last seven
years in putting him on his
feet again is a fact we must
now. face —and face quickly—
if we are to avoid being
involved in an Asiatic war.
“General Chiang spent the
first two years after his flight
from the mainland, 1950-52,
in building-up the defences of
Formosa. The Red Chinese
did not follow-up their success
on the mainland, first, because
they had no Navy and,
secondly, because Russia
ordered them to switch over to
Korea.
“From 19 5 2 to 19 5 5
General Chiang developed the
island economically to make
it self-sufficient. Since then,
he and his followers have been
waiting for the moment to in-
vade and improving their
forces, especially their Air
f orce, every day.
American Assistance
“Since 1950 the United States
has spent $3OO million a
year in Formosa, $2OO million
on building-up the armed
forces and $lOO million on
improving the country. If this
has been spent each year for
seven years on 10-million
people, then to give an equiva-
lent sum to the 600-million in-
habitants of the Chinese main-
land, Russia (or somebody
else) would have had to spend
£6OOO million a year there. But
nothing like this has
happened.
“In Red China there have
been more famines; there is
a desperate need for education
and much disgruntlement in
the universities; the Red
Chinese forces are said to be
good but have not yet been
proved; communications are
certainly very inadequate.
“In Formosa,” Teeling con-
tinues, “the roads are as good
as in Europe and the change
from when I was last there in
1936 under the Japanese is
almost unbelievable. Modern
main roads go all over the
island ; the trains are diesel-
run, with observation-cars; and
an original touch loud-
speakers play ‘Auld Lang Syne’
as you leave each station. The
Air Force has five airfields with
runwqws for jet-aircraft. A new
airfield was begun whilst I was
there—built by the Americans
and designed for atomic war-
fare ; guided - missiles are
already in evidence. The
Americans keep only one
squadron on the island ; they
are satisfied that the Formosans
form the best air-force in Asia.
- “Most of the leaders of the
Navy and the Army were
trained either at Greenwich and
Plymouth or Sandhurst or
Woolwich ; in the Foreign
Office and the Ministries you
find numbers of students from
Oxford, Cambridge and the
London School of Economics.
There is conscription, which
means a youthful Army, the
average age being about 26.
“In 1946 there were less than
a thousand students at Taipei
University; today there are
over 6000 and 1500 of these
are Chinese from Malaya,
Hong Kong and Manila. In
1946 there was only one Roman
Catholic Church in the capital;
today there are 200 and the
number of practising Chris-
tians, led by the General —who
is himself a Methodist—is
nearly a quarter-of-a-million,
as compared with less than
10,000 before the present
regime.
“Taipei had less than 300,000
inhabitants in 1950; today it
has nearly 900,000. Formosa’s
population over the last eight
years has increased from six
million to over ten million;
suitable houses and flats are
being built.
Trade Opportunities
“Where in China proper the
people are pulling in their
belts to increase exports, in
Formosa further immigration
has been stopped. The island is
not only self-sufficient but is
exporting 700,000 tons of
sugar and 150,000 tons of rice.
Factories are springing up all
over the south of the island
and there is a growing demand
for British goods and trade,
but no ship must put into
Formosa which has visited the
Chinese mainland in the last
six months. A choice of trade
must therefore be made soon.
“What the ‘old China hands’
cannot believe is that the
rulers of Formosa have
changed since their days of
inefficiency on the mainland in
1948. They now live in
austerity brought about by
their recent sufferings which
have completely revolutionised
their outlook. Many people
in Hong Kong say that if only
the British merchants were
better informed they might
find trade with Formosa more
profitable than trade with the
mainland.
“At present,” Teeling con-
cludes, “both General Chiang
and the Americans are sitting
back, hoping the Reds will
make a false move or that they
may be called in; but the
General will not wait indefi-
nitely. Should he come to an
agreement with Viet Nam and
South Korea for a joint-attack,
a three-pronged invasion would
be most unpleasant for Red
China. Her much-publicised
troops are not all in one place,
but are scattered over half Asia
and could not be relied upon in
that eventuality.
“The Americans hope that
General Chiang will let them
know before he attacks, but he


ARTHRITIS
and all
Rheumatic Complaints
treated
with excellent results
Persons in all walks of life
throughout Australia have
found freedom from suffering
and hundreds of grateful
letters have been received b.v
our Consultant. Simple, safe
and effective, .STRATTONS
POWDER, compounded from
an Indian Formula, contains
no harmful drugs, will not
affect the heart. and is
NATURE’S ALEE VIATOR
for all complaints of the
RHEUMATIC GROUP.
Four weeks’ Treatment costs
only £1 POST FREE.
STRATTONS
Rheumatic Powder Pty. Ltd.,
9 Barrack St.. PERTH. H A
Now you can FORGET your
sxtvsi
Thanks to
NEO-
BARRERE
iVo Pads —
No Springs
The NRO - BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat upon
the orifice. You will
at once, without
effort and in all
movements, control
youi hernia with comfort and
security. It .cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for FREE Literature
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION ' CO.
(Dept. 3m), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
has recently shown many signs
of independence and may well
act on his own initiative. Even
in such circumstances the
Americans, in my view, are
likely to support him, for they
dislike Red China Jbeing
strengthened with British
goods. If we [Britain] alienate
the U.S.A. by our dealings with
the Chinese Communists their
support for General Chiang is
even more likely.”
Bevan in India
London “Economist” tribute
to Nye Bevan, who, while in
India, “has been speaking his
mind to some purpose”:
“He [Bevan] made short
shrift of the sadly common
Indian belief that British
criticism of Delhi’s Kashmir
policy is merely a tit-for-tat
after India’s denunciation of
the attack on Egypt. He told
members of the Indian Parlia-
ment that they, having enjoyed
the right to disagree with
Britain, must not be ‘hyper-
sensitive’ when Britons dis-
agreed with them. His words
seem to have .had a healthy
impact; it is, after all, difficult
to identify Mr. Bevan as a
supporter of Sir Anthony Eden.
“Late r, when questioned
about Kashmir, he brought out
the essential point that is so
often passed over in discussion
of that dispute: the fact that
the prime interest of India and
Pakistan is to live together in
friendship, and that the
Kashmir question should be
resolved in the way that will
best contribute to that friendly
co-existence.
“When he came to discuss
the Middle East, Mr. Bevan
was able to cite Mr. Nehru
and Mr. Krishna Menon in
support of his plea that India
ought to put pressure on the
Arab countries to accept the
existence of Israel as a hard
fact.
“He went further. Insisting
that those who had thought Sir
Anthony Eden wrong were by
no means committed to the
proposition that President
Nasser must be right, he argued
that instead of Israel having to
go to the International Court to
establish its right to use the
Suez Canal, it was for Egypt
to ask the court for a decision
on its claim to bar Israeli com-
merce.
London “Daily Mail”
“WELL, HOW ABOUT IT IF YOU KEEP THE SWAG AND
COSTS A GAINST THE PLAINTIFF? O.K.?”
“This kind of plain speaking,
addressed to an important
Asian audience by a speaker
whose independence of judg-
ment could hardly be chal-
lenged, can do nothing but
good.”
Britain's Communists
Describing this ye a r’s
British Communist Party con-
gress as a “diverting spectacle,”
“Manchester Guardian” goes
on to comment that “the loss
of 7000 members since Russia
intervened in Hungary, and the
defection of many leading
intellectual supporters, has been
a blow to the party ; but -one
is left with the impression that
the leaders have been less per-
turbed by all this than some
outside critics imagine.
“It is easy to forget that,
although 7000 members may
have left, almost four times that
number remain within the
party. Any new losses, like
those suffered in the past six
months, would be likely to be
mainly from the party’s intel-
lectual fringe. Because these
are the most articulate Com-
munists it is easy to. fall into
the way of thinking that they
are of central importance to
the party.
“The fact remains that it .is
to the hard core of the party,
and particularly those in
industry, that the leaders look
for support in their disruptive
activities. And all the signs are
that this hard core has scarcely
been disturbed by the heart-
searchings over Hungary, and
the misgivings about party-
discipline, which have attracted
most headlines.”
* * *
Further press-comment:
Edinburgh “Scotsman"'.
“Some 27,000 Communists
remain in the party, Comrades
whose consciences are undis-
turbed by the contradictions of
the party-line and by the
atrocities done in the name of
Communism. British Com-
munism is negligible politically,
but 27,000 men who believe that
whatever advances Com-
munism is right and whatever
Moscow says is the truth are
dangerous.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“Politically, it [Communism in
Britain] has been for a long
time discredited. Fa-ilure to
establish a popular front with
Labor in the 1930’5, when the
example of France might have
seemed tempting to a party
which had yet to taste real
pbwer, marked the beginning of
the end. Now it is possible that
more and more ‘revisionists’
may secede, until nothing but
a rump of elderly Muscovite
diehards remains, as absurd
and ineffectual as so many Red
Blimps.”
* * *
London “Daily Mirror”:
“Just how seriously should we
take these British Communists?
Their prophet was Karl Marx.
He died in 1883, an old man
with big whiskers.
“The British Communist
Party was born in 1918.
Politically, it, too, has got
whiskers all over it. Willie
Gallagher, the president, is 75.
Harry Pollitt, the chairman, is
66. R. Palme Dutt, the political
boss, is 60, J. R. Campbell, the
‘Daily Worker’ editor, is 62,
Peter Kerrigan, the industrial
boss, is 57.
“There are no new men to
take their places because
nobody wants to join the Com-
munists any more. In 40 years,
with 24,000,000 workers to get
at, the Reds have managed to
hold only 27,000. In the last
year twenty out of every 100
Communists have resigned.
“Politically, that’s ruinous
for the party. But industrially
one single Red can do a lot of
harm in one big factory.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post”: “The cruel
price which the country
[Britain] pays for industrial
strife is made clear in the latest
shipbuilding returns. The ship-
building strike resulted in a loss
of 60,000 tons of production
and the only people who bene-
fited were our competitors
abroad. Communists who whip
up trouble and do their utmost
to prepare the way for such
acts of folly are sabotaging
Britain’s efforts to achieve
increased prosperity.”
Egyptian Propaganda
London “Economist” com-
ment on Nasser’s “three
requirements” for the solution
of Egypt’s economic and popu-
lation problems:
“The first was control over
some major source of energy ;
the second was the hold on
Arab emotions that was best to
be gained by championing the
Arab cause against Israel ; the
third was control over the Suez
Canal earlier than the
appointed date in 1968. His
[Nasser’s] second and third


T'OtiJi ist c
aggflgg
With nations, as with individuals, there are
times when events of major significance seem to
come in cycle.
I believe that Australia entered one of those
sequences of happy fortune when the Common-
wealth Scientific and Industrial Research
Organisation announced recently the further
success of its experiments in the capture of water.
The Mansfield process for reducing
evaporation by spreading a film of cetyl alcohol
on the surface has been proved amazingly efficient
over a large body of water at Broken Hill.
Previously it had been tested only in limited
storage.
And chemical releases , into clouds from
aircraft are reported to have lifted rainfall by
more than 25 per cent, in 1500 square miles of
the Snowy Mountains region.
These are achievements that will stand in
service to'the world. Important though they are
to all primary industry, we can perhaps judge
them best from the point of our greatest
wealth-winner—wool.
In this country now there are 150-million
sheep, in flocks built up during nine good seasons.
Their wool, at good prices, is sustaining us in
prosperity.
While enjoying this, let us put it in perspective
of time and the seasons: In the drought of 1944-47
our sheep numbers dropped from 123-million to
fewer than 96-million.
This is the reality I see: We are living in those
bridging years when Science is well on the way, if
not to dispel drought, at least to cushion its effects.
The future will bring its own extensions.
Within ten years, for instance, America hopes to
be irrigating on a large scale with sea water
condensed by the heat of the sun.
Our immediate task, then, is to span these
years wisely where water is involved—conserving,
planning, making best use of the hard-won
knowledge as it comes to us—gathering strength
for those greater opportunities that lie beyond
the reach of thirst.
// //asfu^S
wishes have come true with
such eclat that his progress
with the first tends to escape
notice. Yet it is considerable.
“At present, and for so long
•as Egypt lacks the capital to
develop hydroelectric or solar
energy, the nearest major
energy-source is the oil of
Saudi Arabia and of the sheikh-
doms of the Persian Gulf (now
called the Arabian Gulf on
Cairo radio). In each of these
rich, underdeveloped territories,
a hereditary ruler with oil-
revenue to burn is responding
to the popular cry for educa-
tion.
“It is important from Presi-
dent Nasser’s angle that it takes
far less time to build a school
than to train the staff to man it.
Therefoie today, and for per-
haps 15 years to come, all the
less-developed Arab countries
(including Irak but not the more
prudent or more fortunate
Sudan, where teachers’ training
has kept pace wkh the school
buil din g-programme) are
obliged to recruit even their
vernacular - teaching staff
abroad. The same applies, of
course, to their Eng 1i s fa-
language teachers ; there are
more Egyptians than any other
nationality teaching English in
the Middle East today. Oppor-
tunity meets Egypt halfway
because, whereas the supply of
Lebanese or ex - Palestinian
teachers is limited, that from
the overcrowded Nile valley
seems inexhaustible. President
Nasser is in a position to reap
the reward of Egypt’s 25-year
start in the matter of higher
education and of a university
structure that has long been top-
heavy. ,
“The quality of Egyptian
.pedagogy may be low by
European standards (and it has
fallen catastrophically in the
last few years) but it thrives on
its old reputation and is still
high by the standards of
Arabia. In each oil-bearing
country, therefore, the pro-
tagonist of a ‘greater Arab
nation’ under Egyptian manage-
ment has an instrument ready
to hand—the schoolmaster for
the new school, not to mention
the inspector for the schools-
system as a whole.”
The Flying Statesman
Rather kinder than the
American journalist who
described Mr. Dulles as “the
most powerful unguided
missile in the world,” Edin-
burgh “Scotsman” comments
on the information that, since
he took office in January, 1953,
the U.S. Secretary of State has
travelled “the equivalent of 15
times around the world, or
one - and -a - half • times the
distance to the moon”:
“Mr. Dulles has not, of
course, been to the moon. Nor
has he got stuck halfway
down to earth. Though much
in the air, his journeys have
been more-or-less on the level.
During his present tenure of
office, the first artificial satel-
lite will swim into or out of
man’s ken, but the days of
’interplanetary travel are still
to come. How Mr. Dulles
must regret this! He would,
one feels, be irresistibly drawn
to the exercise of personal
diplomacy in Deimos or
Phobos, the satellites of the
Red Planet.
“‘T h e propaganda o f
American. Imperialist circles,’
Moscow radio may say, ‘will
not delude the Soviet people.
As is well - known, Acade-
mician L. Carrolovitch, the.
distinguished Soviet mathe-
matician, has shown by
calculations based on the
curvature and rotary motion
of the globe in relation to
speed and direction of travel,
that Nikita Khrushchev,
travelling by train, covers as
great a distance in one year as
John Foster Dulles does in
three.”
‘“ln his calculations,
Academician L. Carrolo-
vitch allowed a margin of
error of 30 per cent, either
way, in view of the frequent
uncertainty whether Secretary
Dulles was coming or going.
For the past year Comrade N.
Khrushchev, having previously
arrived, has since been more-
or-less going, which, as is well
known, gives him the edge on
John Foster Dulles and
Western reactionary circles.’ •
“It would only remain for
one of those solemn U.S. juries
who award prizes for odd
claims to distinction to crown
Mr. Dulles the world’s most
mobile statesman.”
Various Voices
Admiral of the Fleet, Earl
Mountbatten: “To the $64,000-
question ‘How long will we
[Great Britain] continue to need
a Navy?’ the answer that wins
the $64,000 is Obviously ‘Just
as long as we remain an
island.’ ”
Earl Attlee: “The thing
about politics is you’ve got to
meet all sorts of people you
don’t like. Sometimes whole-
sale murderers. Sometimes, of
course, just retail.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Industry and Health
Some great industries in Aus-
tralia and abroad are under
heavy attack for turning out
products which arc increasingly
criticised in various quarters as
injurious to health. The C.S.R.,
in the recently published
survey South Pacific Enter-
prise, deals very briefly with
criticism by some dentists of
sugar as- destructive to teeth,
describing the case as “not
proven,” and suggesting that a
final verdict should await
investigations into other aspects
of diet and associated matters.
Few of the big tobacco con-
cerns have tried in recent years
to reply to the volume of
medical opinion suggesting
that cigarette-smoking is closely
associated with the growing
incidence of lung-cancer and
heart-disease, although in the
United States the cigarette-
makers are subsidising research
on the subject, and in all manu-
facturing countries, including
Australia, they are experiment-
ing with filter-tips and other
changes.
Breweries and distilleries in
Australia remain curiously
silent in the face of judicial and
magisterial comments on the
relationship of excessive drink-
ing to crime and to the tragic
traffic-toll —although in other
countries even the liquor
interests have exhorted drinkers
not to drive soon after
drinking.
All these industries are part
of “big business,” and all of
them draw heavily on Aus-
tralian primary products. They
are large employers, big
advertisers in newspapers and
on radio and TV.
The general public is not
insensitive to the views of
informed opinion, some of
which reach the newspapers,
and is not unmindful of the
apparent disregard by some
industries of their ambiguous
position as producers of harm-
ful and perhaps deadly
materials. There are many and
conflicting interests at stake in
these and other matters, and
surely the fullest possible public
discussion is the only way of
ensuring that all interests will
be fully and properly safe-
guarded and that the com-
munity is protected from an
unnecessary burden of ill-
health, suffering and sorrow.
The managements of these
industries are comprised of
responsible citizens, whose
consciences alone should be
sufficient to ensure frank facing
of whatever facts have been or
can be elicited. The major
sugar-producer, whose product
is under fire for the compara-
tively minor charge of leading
to dental decay, has at least
acknowledged its awareness of
the position, and its concern to
see that there is full investiga-
tion. When are the others going
to follow suit? — Let’s Live
(N.S.W.).
Communists
Professor Hyman Levy,
latest Communist to get what
he describes as “a bellyful” that
made him quit the party after
a visit to the Russia of his
dreams, has had a long line
of predecessors.
What makes the Communist
party - member, who has
swallowed whales for years,
suddenly get a bellyful over
what appears in comparison to
be a trifle? They all subscribe
in the beginning to what
Koestler calls “the necessary
lie, the necessary slander ; the
necessary intimidation of the
masses to preserve them from
shortsighted errors ; the neces-
sary liquidation of opposi-
tional groups and hostile
classes,” only to trip and fall
over what sometimes appears
a sprat in comparison.
Krivisky and Kravchenko
may perhaps be allowed to
lead this procession, for they
had grown up with Commun-
ism in their native land. Some
of the six writers who record
their retreat in The God That
Failed were never really Com-
munists, but only fellow-
travellers. Koestler protests
for himself, though, that he
had served Communism seven
years: “the length of time
Jacob tended Laban’s sheep to
win Rachel, his daughter.”
Douglas Hyde served on the
staff of London “Daily
Worker” for eight years, much
of this time as news-editor.
Mrs. Charlotte Haldane and
Freda Utley had both spent
years in work for and adula-
tion of Communism before
they, like Professor Levy, had
had a bellyful of its cruelties.
Cecil Sharpley worked all his
long hours, on poor pay, in
the service of Communism in
Australia and never even saw
Russia—els# he. might have
given it away sooner. v The
Italian ex-Communist Silone
once foretold to Togliatti that
the final battle would be
between the Communists and
the ex-Communists. —E. &
O.E. (Tas.).
Trams
“Kiwi” brought out some
good points in favor of trams
(B. 24/4/’57), but he didn’t go
far enough.
He might have mentioned
the higher fares, the greater
distances between stops and
the excessive road-wear which
have been complained of in
Newcastle since buses replaced
trams. Fremantle (W.A.) is
another case in point. • There
the tramway - system was
making a profit a few years
ago. Trams were ousted all
the same, and now buses run
at a whacking loss. And there
have been cries of poor service,
higher fares and overcrowding
from Geelong (Vic.), the last
city to take on buses instead
of trams.
But Sydney and Adelaide
seem determined to banish
trams, regardless of what the
average traveller thinks. The
point is, the transport moguls
make their decisions in the
seclusion of their offices ; they
don’t hear what the man-in-
the-tram thinks —even when
the public protests en masse, as
it did when Geelong’s trams
were first threatened.
Sydney and Adelaide are in
trouble simply because they
didn’t keep their tramways up
to date. In fact, there are no
up-to-the-minute trams in Aus-
tralia, not even in Melbourne
or Brisbane, where the authori-
ties have done quite a good
job of replacement and
modernisation of rolling-stock.
The way the Melbourne and
Metropolitan Tramways Board
handled the Bourke-street
tramway might well be a model
for Sydney and Adelaide.
They actually conducted a poll
among the public to find out if
they wanted trams instead of
buses. The public did, and
they were given fast, quiet,
comfortable trams. Cuffer
(Vic.).
House-sharing
Surely the owner has the
unassailable right to say how
many people shall live in his
house (B. 1/5/’57)? Housing
shortage or not, if he wishes
to occupy, say, eight rooms
himself, to the exclusion of
would-be room-renters or other
tenants, that’s his business ; if
not, then the fundamental prin-
ciple that a man’s house is
virtually his own becomes
meaningless.
House-sharing, of course, is
not, and can’t be, the answer
to housing - shortage. New
houses, and many of them,
built and maintained on long-
term (say, 33 years) Govern-
ment loans at par on land
TO PLATFORMS
“Piper! Piper, sir? Piper! Piper ter ’ide be'ind?”


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Sul scription Dept.,
TKe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign .... £3/8/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
“Not so much soda next time .”
owned by the purchaser have
been the post-war order in
Sweden, America, the Argen-
tine and other countries. It
could as easily be instituted
here if our galaxy of Govern-
ments were as seriously
interested in our individual
welfare as they profess to be.
Such subsidisation of home-
building on deeded land does
not become (as seems at first
glance) an impossible burden
upon taxpayers in that the
interest and principal (by
instalment) flows back steadily
as revenue to the Treasury and
represents a colossal annual
sum in comparatively few
years.
Anyway, since bureaucracy
already controls most of our
freedoms today, who wants
such interference in respect of
homes already bought and paid
for? And that’s what would
happen if somebody success-
fully aspired to the power of
telling you and me who and
how many should live in our
more-or-less empty houses
besides ourselves. —P. O. M. C.
(N.S.W.).
Slum-clearance in U.S.A.
Slums in Australia are
nobody’s business. Local
authorities, often enough, shut
their eyes to the existence of
slum-areas within their own
boundaries ; ratepayers in
general indignantly reject any
suggestion that they should con-
tribute towards slum-clearance
projects ; State Governments
are left to tackle the problem,
which means the finance for
slum-demolition and rebuilding
schemes must be squeezed out
of the limited funds available
for all State building-projects,
With constant pressure from
all directions for more schools,
more hospitals and other public
works, as well as for rental
houses for a large section of the
comparatively well-off wage-
earners of the community, the
state can afford very little, as a
ru i e , f or slum - reclamation,
Which is whv, although slum-
abolition has been talked of
volubly enough for the last 30
yea rs or more, there are still
lots of slum-areas in our larger
cities,
T „' TTC a u
„ In , th ff e U ; - h< T'' er > a
v . el 5' different approach to the
slum-problem is being fostered:
namely, that slum-reclamation
j, s a ma her of civic pride and
f° r . community responsibility,
This in Australian eyes
novel approach has been
largely encouraged and fostered
the Federal Housing Act of
1954.
Under this Act, before
Federal financial aid can be
given, local communities must
j 0„ 1 1 , ~
develop workable prro-
r , u - 1
grammes for their own
improvement-,hat is, practical,
co-ordmated plans
with the community s backing,
There must exist y onl “
willi sb a community y to
J a •
, . ® gee ines in
la h ™ mg “ r ” a ra ' S '
mg housing-standards, lmprov-
ing services, and so on, but
also a readiness to accept part
at least of the, financial burden,
In many American cities the
lead has been taken by private
enterprise. City businessmen
have become convinced that
slums are bad business, and
that redevelopment of slum-
areas really pays. In Indian-
apolis, for instance, private
enterprise has rebuilt slum-
areas which were menacing the
prosperity of the central
trading-area. Federal aid was
refused, so city authorities
tackled the job themselves.
In St. Louis, businessmen,
banks, the leading stores and
smaller merchants found $2
for the purchase of
property in a run-down area,
They rebuilt it. Philadelphia,
Detroit and other cities have
taken similar action to wipe out
slum-areas—not from senti-
mental motives, but through a
combination of civic pride and
the realisation that redevelop-
ment pays dividends.
Australians pride themselves
on their cities, but we still have
our slums. Our cjvic leaders
and our businessmen, as well
as the rank-and-file of rate-
payers, might take a leaf out of
America’s book and start in on
the job in earnest.—Doynest
(Vic.).
P , _
Kates and I axes
With the growth of popu-
lation the cost of govern-
ment Federal, State and
locaL has increased out of
all proportion to services
rendered. Much of the
revenue now received is spent
upon administrative costs
such as salaries, expenses and
non-productive works of all
kinds. Worse, colossal sums
are wasted annually upon
projects which can be of no
benefit to the average citizen,
Huge amounts are set aside
each year to provide free
travel for politicians and their
retinues and departmental
heads. More money is
required for political perks,
fees for sitting on select
commitees, entertaining, and
dozens of' other items given
as extras to politicians already
overpaid. Many of these are
insignificant in themselves,
but in the aggregate they
amount to many millions of
pounds.
Anyone who pays rates and
taxes realises that portion of his
hard-earned cash must be
used to pay the cost of many
unproductive works, but he
also expects to receive some
tangible benefits.
Years ago he did receive
solid and real benefits. The
Federal Government provided
adequate child - endowment,
old-age and invalid pensions,
hospital subsidies and many
other services. State Govern-
ments built and maintained
efficient transport-systems and
a network of . good roads.
Hospitals, schools and similar
institutions were sufficient for
the needs of the people. Local-
government, on Iqw rates, was-
able to provide streets, foot-
paths and the various services
peculiar to municipalities,
The picture today is
different. In spite of record


revenue from record rates and
taxes, the country generally is
suffering from a shocking
lack of public facilities and
amenities. Child - endow-
ment is inadequate, hospital-
subsidies are far below
requirements, and pensions
and similar allowances are at
starvation-level—all this in
spite of a special social-
services tax which, we were
told, was to provide all these
things on an ample scale.
In the State sphere, public
transport is bankrupt, in-
adequate and comfortless.
Roads are fast being pounded
into dust, and hospitals and
schools are overcrowded and,
in many cases, out-of-date.
The local-government scene
is perhaps the most dismal of
all. Throughout Australia
there are municipalities and
shires that have reached their
statutory rating- and borrow-
ing-limits. In these areas (and
many others, too) streets, roads
and footpaths are disintegrat-
ing. Once-solid bridges and
culverts are falling down from
senile decay and lack of
maintenance. Practically every
service, supposed to be given
in return for- rates paid is
skeleton or non-existent, and
in many rural and suburban
areas stagnation and decay is
easier to find than real
progress.
Many people claim that
our migration-programme is
“Have you got a little boy I could play with ?”
largely responsible for this
situation, and that our
difficulties are merely growing-
pains that will pass away. No
doubt migration has accen-
tualed our problems, but to
lay the whole blame upon it
is ridiculous. Our problems
have not appeared overnight ;
they have been developing for
years, perhaps since the
depression. A t first the
deterioration was slow, barely
perceptible, but during the
war it accelerated, and has
continued to do so until today
our problems loom so large
that they threaten to strangle
the economic life of our
country.
The Federal Government
can be blamed for most of the
trouble, not on political
grounds, but because it has
developed into a revenue-
collecting octopus which is
remorselessly crushing the life
from’ State- and local-govern-
ment. The Commonwealth
Parliament is remote from the
people and has degenerated
into a regulation - making
machine which is not con-
cerned with the welfare of the
people; consequently it has
allowed its functions to be
exercised by its departmerital
heads.
This beaureaucratic set-up
of public servants —who are
actually public masters
exercises powers that should
only be in the hands of Parlia-
ment. A handful of heads
and their deputies and deputy-
deputies together with a
bunch of “advisers” long on
theory but short on practical
knowledge—are secure in their
positions and not answerable
to the electorate. They regard
taxpayers as a milch-cow
which exists only to provide
more and more money.
In the past, Australians have
submitted meekly to the ever-
increasing demands of their
masters, but the first signs of
revolt have appeared upon the
horizon. In various parts of
Australia taxpayers and rate-
payers have been holding big
protest-meetings and, in some
cases, have forced councils to
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 434
Across
I—This makes me slow-witted with a lobe of the brain. (7)
s—Sweet5 —Sweet ship of the desert surrounds an artist. (7)
9 —Furniture made of fingernails, takes the lid back to Miss
Austen's novel, but awkward predicament. (5, 2,1, 7)
10 — Teacher in the stream. (6)
11— Vice need is shown in testimony. (8)
13 —The Spanish manuscript trees. (4)
15 — Just a fiesta. (4)
16 — No auxiliary verb turned black.
(4)
19 — Singer changed a lot. (4)
20— A man-about-town who, as a
ruler of Britain, tried to sit on
the waves? (4)
21 — American Queen Elizabeth is an
employer. (4)
24 — The ambassador says : “Secretly
I'm Sayers.” (8)
25 A couple of Britons which can
quickly shoot the tufty ornament
splendor of 1000. (3-3)
28 — Gardeners make its shirt curl out.
(15)
29 injured parent grew older. (7)
30 — Like one who says how much
metal an ore contains. (7)
Down
1— Roy Rene acted badly as
one who is widely venerated. (8)
2 Fiddle upset a popular game at
the pubs. (5)
3 Punished the French outhouse. (6)
4 Become affianced to a fortissimo,
why? (4)
5 A bounder to swear love to us
like a corpse. (10)
6 Gold reed, if broken, is again
set in position. (8)
7 Souvenirs for me and the chaps
with digits. (9)
8— Gray meadow hide-out. (6)
12 —Behind the scenes footballer
crushed into very small particles.
UO)
14—Factory private in the American
army upset the mutton weight. (9)
17— Bragging about the bite of a
serpent. (8)
18— Who makes a pledge in favor of
a skinflint? (8)
22 — Net-style outhouse named after
me. (6)
23 — Woos cases heard in such palaces.
(6)
26 — Dough-colored pen is to pop. (5)
27 Before rising—one volcano. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 433


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established IS~B.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman) F. AV. RADFORD (AHee-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all CountiTy Centres
drop proposals to increase
rates.
The ordinary man-in-the-
street is beginning to demand
that politicians return to their
proper role of guardians of
the rights of the people. We
will yet see monster protest-
meetings in every capital
demanding reduced taxes, the
elimination of waste and
extravagance, and a reduction
in the public service.— Kayell
(Vic.).
Comics
It’s true, as “Robbie” says
(B. 24/4/’57), that comics have
been used for educational and
similar purposes. They have
even been used as bait for elec-
tors by political parties distrust-
ful of the effects of a more
conventional approach, and
they have their uses among
illiterate native peoples in
health, child-care and agri-
cultural matters. But surely
the most incongruous use is in
the U.S. Atomic Energy’s Com-
mission at Oak Ridge,
Tennessee, a mile or so away
from the vast and carefully-
guarded plant which made the
first A-bomb, and which is hard
at work today on new
developments.
The museum has a good deal
of interesting equipment and
explanatory photographs and
diagrams—although it is hard
to understand why a machine
which will irradiate a dime for
nothing, returning it in a little
celluloid container, or another
that will make your hair stand
straight up if you grasp a
handle, should be required.
The “gem” of the collection,
however, is a vast wall,
“explaining” nuclear-fission by
means of the Dagwood family.
Dagwood, Blondie and their
kids and dogs, who are the
characters of a deservedly
popular strip in the Sunday
papers, are used in a fantastic
series of drawings to suggest
what happens when the nuclei
are separated and brought
together. The display seemed
both unintelligible and mis-
placed to me, but lots of people
were gaping at it. —In the Act
(N.S.W.).
Trees
Australians do not, as
“Yakipan” generalises (B.
17/4/’57), love to chop down
trees, but pasture, fruit and
vegetables grow better
unaccompanied by eucalypts.
From this district, 22 miles out
of Melbourne, a considerable
tonnage of firewood, simply as
a by-product of agriculture,
goes to the city. Now, because
Australians hate chopping
down trees, it is becoming
common for the bulldozers to
push them over into windrows,
which, after drying, are burned
to an extent that exceeds ten-
fold the firewood tonnage
salvaged.
Five miles to the east of me
—3O miles from Melbourne —•
are thousands of acres of trace-
element-deficient land which,
for countless centuries, has
sustained only a cover of
stunted stringybark and a top-
soil of Energetic farmers
“Don't stay up too long , Flappson; it's still on the secret list.”
are clearing this and, with the
aid of potash and molybdenum,
growing pastures that are better
than the river-flats. Are these
the miscreants who, combined
with effete city-dwellers with
open fireplaces, are nudging
the country to erosion and
national disaster?
I am not convinced that I
and my city friend must
tolerate our chop being
deflavored by electrical or
nuclear frizzling because '“Yak.”
has decided that woodlands are
disappearing' and fuel-
merchants have to go greater
distances. I need more pasture
to graze beef, so a wood-
merchant has just cleared 400
tons off seven acres of my back
bush. With good access to a
made road, he averaged four
trips of six tons each daily. I
got the current payment of 2s.
per ton and I have plenty more
for him, and so have my
neighbors. That should refute
any generalisation that the
availability-factor alone has
skyrocketed prices.
Woodcutting is hard yakker,
and the boys with the grey
flannel singlets and the peculiar
muscles bulging on their upper
arms just aren’t around so
numerously.
Apropos the inefficiency of
wood as fuel, and of open fire-
places that send 75 per cent,
of heat up the chimney, there
are plenty of slow-combustion
wood-stoves, both kitchen and
living-room types, but here’s
a warning on indoor-heating:
Anyone who has had sustained
and intimate experience of run-
ning an air-conditioned build-
ing realises the diversity of
individual temperature-require-
ments. In midwinter it is the
diaphanously clad typist who
complains of near heat-prostra-
tion if the temperature goes to
71°, and the rugged male in
his neck-to-ankle woollens who
grouses that his pen fingers are
going numb because the
temperature has dropped to
69°. Which supports my idea
that man is never more com-
fortable than when his front is
being toasted and an adequate
draught of oxygen-sufficient air
keeps his back cool and his
lungs happy. He can, with easy
manipulation of his chair
castors, obtain nice adjust-
ments of bodily comfort that
are denied him in any
“efficiently” heated room,
I am not familiar with the
ironbark and box areas north
of Melbourne which supply the
city with our best calorific-
value firewood, nor with their
erosion potential, but they are
forestry - commission territory
with controlling officers not
likely to allow imprudent
exploitation.
Some States, certainly S.A.,
have' laws that can and do
forbid owners of freehold land
from denuding hill-country of
tree-cover, and there are laws
of wider scope in several
European countries which
could be adopted in Australia.
Such laws give control to
forestry officials on. all wooded
land, public or private, to
prevent unsound exploitation
or utilisation of tree-covered
areas. — Sevenelms (Vic.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
IMPROVED PASTURES IN THE NORTH
cattlemen in north
~ and central Queensland
have gone in for better
pastures, grasses chosen
have been guinea, para,
elephant and molasses. The
guinea-grass has long been
acclimatised along most per-
manent creeks in the coastal
section.
There are several types of
guinea-grass, all of which are
productive of plenty of fairly
good feed (much better than
the natural spear- and blady-
grasses), but none is for cool
highland or inland areas.
Guinea-grass requires a
moist, warm climate, and will
then stay green all the year.
However, main growth is made
from December to April, when
the stems. are soft and fine,
and it seems to be helped by
frequent cuttings to within a
foot of the ground.
It is not tolerant of over-
stocking and trampling, and
even a welhestablished stand
will soon succumb to this,
especially in winter and spring.
Though it will reach an
The use of wool
throughout the world
is still increasing.
The increase last year
was 8% more than
1955 and was the
highest of any post-
war year. The greater
the demand for wool
the greater should be
the care of lambs —
the young wool pro-
ducers. They should
not be marked and
tailed by crude
methods but by
“Elastrator’' Rubber
Rings which do not
cause dangerous open
wounds susceptible to
infection by disease.
average height of 6ft., its food-
value is best when it is main-
tained at 2ft. or 3ft., a patch
being fenced into sections for
totational grazing.
It is a stooling grass, and
likes to move into cultivations ;
when this occurs, mattocking
out the stools is the only sure
means of control.
Before it was introduced into
Queensland, it had been valued
“Kitty! Kitty!"
as a forage- and hay-grass in
Florida (U.S.A.) and the West
Indies for 100 years, having
been brought there from the
West African coast.
Its seed is a poor germinator,
but so much is set that propa-
gation is rapid from small
stands ; the wind spreads it.
Para-grass is a grass of
creeping habit, usually sappy
and succulent, and well known
as giant couch or Panicum
muticum. It is a real water-
grass, frequenting marshy
places and stream-verges, where
it stops a lot of erosion.
It is often found running
through guinea-grass,- and .both
of them are often found with
the thorny briar or sensitive-
plant, itself rich feed for
milkers and a soil-enricher.
Like guinea-grass, para-grass
can stand reasonable, but not
excessive, grazing, but it will
gradually recover after a real
hiding from stock. Like other
members of the couch tribe, its
vast root-system will survive,
even though the top-growth is
repeatedly torn to bits.
It is useful for swamp-plant-
ing in inland districts.
A lot of seed is produced by
para-grass in a wet summer.
It resembles the seed of Pas-
palum dilitatum and germinates
fairly well, but the grass is so
easily propagated by root-
runners that the collection of
seed is a waste of time.
The grass will grow from
slips if the ground is Wet. To
get these, runners which may
be up to 30ft. long are fed
into a chaffcutting-machine,
minus one blade, which soon
gives hundreds of lengths.
Or, as a patch of para-grass
is just getting under way in
the wet season, the would-be
grower may go along and snip
off the runner-tips for planting
elsewhere.
With a vigorous bunch of
roots on each, the tips never
look back, and the pruning
stimulates the parent-plant to
greater efforts.
Para-grass is, as the name
implies, a native of South
America.
Much use is made of
elephant-grass in other parts
of the world, and it deserves
more attention in Australia.
It has greater possibilities than
either guinea-grass or para-
grass, because it is highly
drought-resistant; the others
need a good rainfall.
If left ungrazed or uncut,
elephant-grass will shoot up to
10ft. or 12ft. in a few months,
resembling sugar-cane, but
coarse and useless for stock-
feed. When kept below, say,
6ft., the thickish stems pro-
vide sweet chewing for stock,
and the food-value is good.
It mixes well with guinea-
or para-grass in the field, but
its seed is difficult to collect
and poor in fertility, though
the wind blows the fine seed
from elephant stands, and leads
to fresh patches springing up.
Propagation is carried out
by mattocking out the matted
stools and taking out rooted
portions about a foot long. Or'
a patch of the grass is allowed
to go to canes, and these are
felled, cut into lengths, and laid
in drills. Plants spring up from
the eyes, as with sugar-cane.
The grass is a native of East
Africa, where it has been
known to remain green when
everything else was shrivelled
by drought.
I have yet to see a withered
patch of elephant-grass in the
driest year.
Molasses - grass somewhat
resembles para-grass as far as
its leaves are concerned, but
it does not creep about to any
great extent. More, it is a
thickly growing grass, reaching
3ft. or so in height, and has an
aromatic odor, something like
hot cane-molasses.
•It is fairly drought-resistant,
but tends to dry-off in the late
winter, and, unfortunately, is
often burned-off in spring.
A fire is disastrous to its
roots and often kills off a
patch entirely.
It can be propagated by
roots or seed. Usually, the
latter gives the best results, and
can be obtained easily, whereas
guinea-seed is usually scarce,


75 Years ago,
Was fmiaded at
After the death of William Charles Wentworth,
one of his cattle stations—Colembarrawang,
on Marthaguy Creek —was bought by James
Richmond, and renamed Haddon Rig. In
1882 Richmond began his task of establishing
a first-class Merino Stud. He purchased his
foundation stock—3o Peppin-Wanganella Stud
Rams and 1900 aged ewes —from Austin and
Millear, of Wanganella, Deniliquin. Sub-
sequently more Wanganella stud sheep were
added, the last being the famous “Mansie
Waugh” in 1894.
Donald Grant handled the classing until 1916,
when Haddon Rig was sold to F. B. S. Falkiner.
After the former went to manage his own stud
—Bairnkine—his place was taken by William
O’Brien. The third and present classer,
Malcolm McLeod, took over after O’Brien’s
death. Haddon Rig’s astounding auction record
—including 17 consecutive Sydney aggregates
gained by teams averaging 124 rams —is the
measure of the stud’s success.
At the 1957 Sydney Ram Sales 5 Haddon Rig
Special Stud Rams will be offered by Dalgety
& Co., together with 37 Stud Rams and 24
Selected Rams. Twenty-two Selected Rams
will be offered by A.M.L. & F. Co., and 24
more by Goldsbrough Mort & Co.
HADDON RIG STUD
Warren, N.S.W. Telephone: Warren 74.
and most would-be growers
have to get roots.
Para- and elephant-grass seed
is seldom on the market.
Wnere they have become
acc!imati:ed, it has been
noticed that the grasses have
spread best on alluvials and
sandy loams, but para-grass
also goes ahead on heavy,
black solis, and molasses-grass
is at home on the red voicanics
of mountain country.
In recent years, a legume
called Centrosema has been
introduced to offset the drop
in protein in summer-growing
grasses in late-winter and early-,
spring.
(The Queensland Agricultural
Department wants it grown
aiongsioe elephant-grass, not
only to make up a protein-
deficiency when this grass is
mature and making no growth
in winter, but also to put back
some of the nitrogen taken
from the sod by that strong-
growing grass.)
The trouble with most
legumes tried in the Far North
has been their inability to with-
stand the smothering growth of
forage-grasses during the hot
spells between the monsoon-
rains.
If the Department of Agricul-
ture considers Centro, is able
to compe.e with elephant-grass
in its flush summer-growth, the
same legume should also stand
alongside guinea-, para- and
molasses-grass, and supple-
ment them over the period of
low protein.
The acclimatised legume,
sensitive-plant, with its high-
protein value, grows with
guinea and para, but it is much
more active in company with
Paspalum clilitatum and couch-
grasses.
It thrives with grasses of
of medium growth, or tall
grasses that are being some-
what overstocked.
Another legume that is gain-
ing popularity in the North is
the phasey-bean or phaselous.
It aho grows with paspalum,
guinea- and para-grass, and,
being taller than some legumes,
is more adapted to strong
competition.
Many graziers are very
keen on it and say it has helped
pull their cattle through
droughts when scarcely any
nutriment remained ’-in the
dried grass. (This in central
Queensland, where they were
relying on natural grasses.)
The pigeon-pea (Cajartus
indicus ) is another good thing:
a tree growing 10ft. or 12ft.
high, and bearing heavy crops
of edible peas. It is the foliage
of the tree in winter and early
spring that is of interest to
graziers.
Cattle like it, then, though
they won’t look at it wnen
there’s plenty of young, green
grass in summer.
It’s so hardy that two or
three seeds set in a cleared and
cultivated spot about every
6ft. or Bft. in spring start it
off.
W. Court.
"Steaming-up"
“Paddy G.”: When dry
springers are relegated to the
back-paddocks, their extra
mineral requirements are
usually forgotten.
Over the last month, feed the
cow a small ration of the same
concentrate-mix she will get
as a milker.
A few pounds every few
days, increased towards the
time of calving, will do two
jobs: first, by supplying her
mineral needs, milk-fever will
possibly be avoided ; and
second, if she’s well “steamed-
up” on arrival in the bail, she’ll
be ready to take her full dairy-
ration, and gain maximum
production, immediately.
The Wheat Market
“Division”: Should the
Australian wheatfarmer take
the advice of the chairman of
the Australian Wheat Board,
Sir John Teasdale, and reduce
his acreage this coming season,
or should he carry on and sow
as planned?
The Federal Government,
through Primary Industry
Minister McMahon, warns that
Sir John, although a distin-
guished marketing authority,
was merely expressing his own
private views.
All this leaves the farmer up
in the air, so perhaps it is best
here to detail some of the
latest moves on the wheat pro-
blem, together with the inter-
pretations leading figures have
placed on them.
Dr. T. H. Strong, Director of
the Bureau of Agricultural
Economics, started the ball
rolling on April 24, when he
warned that exports of Aus-
tralian wheat could soon drop
below their present level. He
said the world wheat-market
was quiet after a spate of stock-
piling,which appeared to have
been engendered by the Suez
crisis.
Surplus disposals of wheat
by the U.S. had already
attracted India, once the second-
biggest buyer of Australian
wheat, and another U.S. deal,


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NKW «OI T TH WALES OFFICE:
IB BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4357 (2 lines).
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
this time with Brazil
normally Argentina’s best cuSt
tomer had diverted large
quantities of Argentine wheat
on the world-market to compete
with Australian wheat.
Dr. Strong went on to warn
that we might expect some
competition from France soon,
but he stopped there. He didn’t
suggest that fhe picture is so
black that wheatfatmers
should do anything drastic
about it.
Sir John Teasdale came into
the picture on April 25 with
some harsh comments and a
sharp reminder that he had
warned the nation of over-
planting some years ago. Now,
he claimed, Dr. Strong’s
remarks proved just how right
he was. He suggested an annual
limit of 150-million bushels.
Then, in the House of Repre-
sentatives, Mr. McMahon had
his say. Wheat-stocks in Aus-
tralia could fall to 40- or 50-
million bushels, quite a
manageable level, by the end
of the present season
November 30.
He told Mr. Failes (C.P.,
Lawson) that until recently sales
had proceeded satisfactorily,
but now there was little business
being done in overseas wheat-
markets: “These things happen
in the commodity markets and
we should not make up our
minds too quickly what the
prospects may be as a result of
these, changes.... We cannot
tell at present what seasonal
conditions will be and therefore
what future prospects might
be.”
There, for the moment, ends
the official attitude.
Now come the “backroom”
brigade, who claim that no one,
net even Sir John Teasdale, can
forecast world demand for
grain any more than two years
ahead.
They claim that Australia
can rely on holding her regular
market in New Zealand, and be
sure of selling about 28-million
bushels a year to Britain, with-
out having to undercut com-
petitors. On top of this there
could be a good market in
Japan if latest trade talks are
successful.
But even though officials will
spare no effort to find markets,
there will be no attempt to
follow suggestions that we
should sell our better-quality,
protein - rich, hard wheat
separately, to get a higher price.
At present more than 80 per
cent, of our wheat is “soft,”
and most of it is grown south
of a line running halfway
across the middle of N.S.W.
Officials believe it would be
impracticable to provide a
stabilisation-scheme for two
types of wheat: millions of
pounds would have to be spent
on extra silos to separate the
two types, and, because of this
the present f.a.q. system will
continue to operate, although
it means getting a lower general
price for some wheat.
Official figures give an esti-
mated yield of 134.7-million
bushels for the 1956-57 season,
during which sowings were 7.8-
million acres —23 per cent
lower than the previous season,
and the lowest acreage for 43
years.
Surely, on these figures alone,
the Federal Government,
backed by the full resources- of
the Trade Department’s
research-and-marketing section,
should come out into the open
and give the wheatgrower its
considered advice on the future
market for wheat.
Which Stack to Feed
“Sedalia”: Good hay, poor
hay, grain or silage—which will
I feed out, and when? This
problem faces all good fodder-
conservators who want to get
the best out of their hard work
at harvest. The answer depends
mainly on the season and the
type of stock to be fed.
Grain, and some good-
quality hay, are the best for
ewes in the vital last six weeks
before lambing, and for
weaners during the late
summer and autumn, when
they need quality feed to
prevent a setback which will
give internal-parasites a chance
to get the upper hand.
Silage is good for succulence,
and to stimulate milk-produc-
tion, although it is all the
better when a little grain is
added to it.
Good-quality hay containing
plenty of protein is used best
by growing and producing
stock at times of the year such
as the winter, when pasture-
growth is often insufficient for
the stock, but is soft and con-
tains a lot of moisture.
Poorer-quality hay, which
should have a stack of its own,
is best for providing roughage
when the feed gets lush in the
late winter and early spring.
And it’s a good idea to feed-
out first the hay which has the
least protection.
Oats are the best grain,
because they can be stored
easily for years ; they are easy
to handle and feed-out; they
are palatable, and can be fed
with the least waste; they
cause fewest digestive upsets,
and they give the most food-
value for the money.
Green oats also provide
excellent winter-feed, and a fed-
off crop which matures for
grain can be fed-off with great
advantage during the summer.
Row-planting
“Agricola”: Tell “Bambra”
(B. 24/4/’57) that grasses are
grown in rows in Australia. In
Queensland Rhodes - grass,
lucerne, phalaris, green-panic,
buffel, elephant, guinea, and
scrobiculatum —to mention a
few —have been planted in
rows, for a number of reasons.
The inter-row space can be
cultivated, not only to keep
down the weeds, but also to
hold any moisture in the form
of rain. This is most important
in dry seasons, when many light
falls are wasted becayse they
dry out of the ground before
the plant can make use of the
moisture. A light cultivation
will keep this moisture in the
ground where it can reach the
grass-roots.
There has been a lot of argu-
ing about row-planting. Some
contend that too much soil is
wasted, and that a good sward
of grass should make use of
every inch of the soil.
Others maintain that grass
stools better in rows, and carries
more ‘ flag,” or leaf, which
makes it more palatable. This
is very true: stock will generally
show a preference for row-
planted grasses, particularly in
dry times.
Experiments conducted in
central Queensland, where
rotation to cotton, have shown
Rhode6-grass is grown as a
that row-sown grass has a
higher protein-eontent than
sward-grass of the same species,
at the same stage of growth.
A point generally overlooked
is the impossibility of row-
grown grass-paddocks becom-
ing root- or sod-bound.
Every time you cultivate be-
tween the rows, you are not
only conserving moisture and
keeping weeds down, you are
also renovating the pasture.
Some forms of pasture-renova-
tion are based roughly on the
idea of row-planting.
To get back to Rhodes-grass
in central Queensland, the
popular way to renovate grass-
paddocks is to plough strips
roughly 2ft. or 3ft. wide,
leaving a line of grass between
the ploughed areas. The grass
in the strips makes greater
growth, and the runners soon
cover the ploughed land.
Bluefop Ironbark
“B-herd”: This remote tree,
growing only along the tops of
wild ridges, and (so far as I
know) on a narrow, definite
belt of country between the
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(2/5/’57)
Queensland should get moderate rains in May, below
norma: in the greater part of the State, heavier in the south-
west and southern-border country. General rains in June
and July, although the spring rains should be patchy.
General rains are indicated in N.S.W. during May,
although, in view of the trend of the season, these may be
modified to some extent. General rains are likely in June,
with heavier falls in July. Spring rains likely to be patchy.
Victoria should get good rains this month, but rainfall
should be moderate during June and July, with heavy falls
in August-September.
General rains are likely in South Australia this month,
with moderate general rains in June and July. Light rain in
the interior and on the Murray Valley.
Heavy rains are indicated in Western Australia this
month. For June, good rains likely in the De Grey, south
Gascoyne, goldfields and south-west, with heaviest falls on
the south coast.
LENNOX WALKER.


‘Phanavii' Br*n4 af PhanathUzlna
So is
'PHENOVIS'
The effective Drench for Worms in sheep
O ‘Phenovis’ effectively controls the major intestinal worms in sheep.
O Helps sheep resist infestation.
® Helps keep pastures contamination-free.
O Worm free sheep produce 25% more wool than worm infested sheep.
Insist upon the SUPERFINE quality
'PMEMOWIS'
LIQUID OR POWDER
a DEPENDABLE ANIMAL
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
ICI
p mi em ojl p y_Djrr
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
1534. PHE. 61X. 4082
Dumaresq River, borderline
of New South Wales and
Queensland, and the forests
behind Chinchilla (Q.), where
it peters out, is about the last
of the Australian trees to be
harvested by the wandering bee-
herds.
Hollow and gaunt, it’s worth-
less as timber: timber-men
don’t know it, and I very much
doubt whether botanists know
much about it.
As a bee-tree, it’s invaluable.
It flowers through the winter—
a grand asset where the brood
folds up in April and the hard
winters pull the hive down to a
handful by the time the sand-
gums break in early spring. It
yields a rich pollen and a good
honey, light-colored, and good
to taste. The bees expand their
brood-rearing on it, and, by
late August, when the last of
the buds break, they’re waiting
to swarm.
Bluetop grows on the high,
dry ridges only, yet stands,
drought better than yellow-box
does: yellow-box is noted
—perhaps wrongly—for its
tolerance of drought-condi-
tions.
Bluetop ironbark yields well
when there’s not a sup of
water for miles around and bee-
herds have to cart water into
the hills in 44-gallon drums to
keep the bees alive. It doesn’t
flower regularly: it may go for
four or five years, but let the
operculums fall, even if seven
years go by, and the big bee-
trucks start crawling into the
hills before they hit the ground.
Ten years ago bluetop's
virtues were unknown and the
herders took the long and
weary road to the ‘'Belbowrie,”
hundreds of miles to the east,
to keep their bees strong for the
summer-flows ahead. Now,
this season, Forestry officers
are getting headaches and lease-
holders of the grass-rights
scratch their heads as feuds and
fights flare-up over the scarce
sites among the bee-men. The
tree isn’t Insted in the honey-
trees book.
Sometimes broad-leaf iron-
bark occurs with it, and at a
glance it could be taken for
one, but closer inspection
reveals that the leaf has a more
bluish shade, is bigger, and,
most important identification,
the operculum of the bud is
longer and has, at the tip, a
peculiar, definite twist. The
bud occurs on the top ; that is,
outside the leaves, a character-
istic of the ironbark family.
(All the box family carry their
buds inside the protective
covering of the leaves.)
The name “bluetop” is, of
course, a beekeepers’ term,
given to distinguish the tree
from broadleaf and Caley’s
(both winter-bloomers), and
because of its definite bluey
tinge against the deeper green
of the forest growth.
At the moment of writing,
the tree is blooming, and, along
the 250 - mile, north - south,
narrow belt of its growth,
thousands of colonies are
toiling in it.
Farm Hints
“Wurroa”: Disused motor-
tyres cut down the centre of the
tread, right around the out-
side, make excellent receptacles
for feeding grain to the odd
sheep and to poultry. The
grain is hard to spill from the
hollows of the half-tyres, and
the latter are hard to tip up.
“Moutajup”: Footbathing of
sheep to control footrot can
be hastened by widening foot-
baths to take three lines of
sheep instead of the single file.
To prevent crowding, the lines
of sheep can be separated by
rails within the bath.
“C.”: Swimming-water for
ducks isn’t essential, but they
can’t keep their plumage in
good condition without a wash.
In dry weather the feathers
become stained, stiff and be-
draggled. A bath if only once
a week will work wonders in
appearance and contentment.
The growth of
cabbages can be greatly in-
creased by the simple applica-
tion of a teaspoon of common
salt around the stem of each
plant.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
The heat and sunshine were, of course,
one of the main topics of the week.
Mother’s Day was the hottest (83 degrees)
for 15 years, and the shining days
which end with sunsets of misty fire are
very beautiful. But the word “drought”
has been mentioned; the inland birds
(wild-duck, coot, water-hen, egret and
ibis) have taken up residence on the lakes
in Centennial Park; and people are
beginning uneasily to wonder if winter
is never coming. In fact, summer is like
a bright but long-staying guest about
whom her hosts are whispering “Hasn’t
she mentioned going yet?”
ix ☆ ☆
Mother’s Day seems to have estab-
lished itself successfully now. The
churches speak well of it, the schools
encourage it and most of the mothers
like it. Those who disapprove, saying
that it is over-commercialised and that
one should think of Mother every day
of the year, have been routed. However,
it is suspected that the flower-sellers who
call out “Fresh chrysanths” are secretly
antagonistic, because they invariably
leave “the mum” out of it.
# # a-
The university students had their
Commemoration Day revels during the
week and brought some laughter and
gaiety into the streets with their antics.
They “captured” the American aircraft-
carrier Bennington by boarding her at
dawn and setting off the chemical-warfare
alarm, but as they were dressed-up as
pirates at the time, it is hardly likely
that the U.S. crew were unaware of the
“attack.” Dressed as native-girls, bare-
footed and graceful, many of the girls
collected for the Far West Children’s
Appeal. Some of the boys “kidnapped”
the Lord Mayor and held him to ransom
of £lOOO for the appeal. Whether it was
paid or not is not revealed, but the
students raised about £5OOO in all for
the Far West kiddies. The procession
set off early from the university and
rushed through the city, so that many
people missed it. The students blamed
the police and vice-versa, but it is just
another something to watch out for next
year.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Penguins of Australia (not an
angry one among them) met for their
10th convention at the Conference Room
of the Rural Bank during the week, and
there was some animated conversation
and eloquent discourse to be heard. These
penguins, of course, are members of the
Penguin Club, which has branches as far
afield as Perth, and which exists to teach
women how to express themselves in
public. According to Mrs. G. M. Relton,
the State president, it also helps them to
“hold their own in the home.” The
speeches on Australia’s Progress as a
Nation were of a high order, the speakers
being Mrs. K. Richardson, Mrs. Ruth
Stirling, Miss Dot Muncaster and the
Federal president, Mrs. Jean Ellis. Mr.
G. B. Morgan of “Rostrum,” who
thanked the speakers, was the sole male
to raise his voice.
Elizabeth Waterhouse, talented 15-
year-old Sydney actress, has been cast in
the name-role in the moving stage-play
“The Diary of Anne Frank,” which
opens at the Theatre Royal tomorrow
( Thursday, May 16). Elizabeth is
teamed with world-famous American
actor and producer Noel Madison in this
production of the Pulitzer Prize drama,
which has won acclaim throughout the
world. Elizabeth was chosen from dozens
of applicants for the arduous and testing
role of Anne. The play is under the
direction of J. C. Williamson and Garnet
H. Carroll. Photo by Montgomery
Dunn.
The annual meeting of The Bush Book
Club was presided over by Mrs. G.
Christie, in the absence of its president,
Miss Barbara Knox, who is abroad. The
speakers this year were Miss Kay
Kinnane, who gave an insight into the
working of TV-production, and author
John McGhee, who spoke on the value
of books of all kinds in bringing happi-
ness to people, especially in the outback.
He told an amusing story of how he saw
a young girl reading a book in a bus in
Edinburgh, her face lit up with joy as
she did so. “Ah,” he thought to him-
self. “If I can write the right sort of
stuff I can give happiness like that also! ”
But before alighting he peeked at the
title of the book and found it was called
Someday My Prince Will Come. “And
from that day,” added Mr. McGhee, “I
have never despised light-hearted read-
ing, for it all has its virtues.” Bush Book
Club secretary Mrs. K. M. Raymond
read the report, and said that during the
year 9580 books had been sent out, each
chosen to the member’s individual
requests.
* * *
When Miss Betty Archdale retires as
Principal of Sydney University Women’s
College in November she will be suc-
ceeded by Miss Doreen Langley, who
is an honors-graduate in Science and an
authority on nutrition. A Melbourne
girl, Miss Langley was a member of
the W.A.A.A.F. during the war, and
after a post-graduate course in nutrition
in 1946 did nutrition-surveys in Papua,
New Guinea, Gambia, West Africa and
Fiji. She has been lecturer in nutrition
at the School of Home Science, East
Sydney Technical College, since 1954,
and is a part-time lecturer in nutrition
with the Department of Social Work at
the University and with the Child
Welfare Department.
☆ ☆ ☆
Working for the success of the Shore
Old Boys’ Union Dance at the Trocadero
on Friday, May 24, is a strong committee
of ladies under the leadership of Mrs.
L. C. Robson, wife of the Headmaster.
Committee-members include Mrs. Robert
Burge, Mrs. Geoffrey Coghlan, Mrs.
Bruce Cormack, Mrs. Richard Swift, Mrs.
Robert Swift, Mrs. Richard Hodgkinson,
Mrs. T. T. Halstead, Mrs. Keith Judd,
Mrs. Brian Wiesener, with Margot Ander-
son, Ellen Coombes, Jennifer Eldershaw,
Charmian Kaleski, Judy Millard, Helen
Richardson and Joan Warburton.
☆ ☆ ☆
The first-ever Hostess Television Drive
has been launched in Sydney and is likely
to be a huge success. It is in aid of the
Elizabethan Theatre Ball, which comes up
at the Trocadero on September 17.
The Hostess TV Drive operates like this:
You (i.e., anyone) give a party of any
kind: bridge, cocktail, lunch, poker,
dancing, talking, records, and send the
proceeds (minimum £1) to the organiser,
who registers your name and, for each
extra £l, the names of your guests if you
wish. Then on a set date (about the end
of August) dozens of prizes will be drawn
on TV, and all the names registered will
be eligible. At present the prizes include
a fox-cape, two portable radios, several
hams, Scotch whisky, and a painting by
Sidney Nolan. The organiser is Mrs. lan
Jacoby, 10 Carrara-road, Vaucluse, and
prizes, as well as names for registration,
may be submittted to her.
# j? #
Dr. Nicolai Malko, the Musical Direc-
tor of the Sydney Symphony Orchestra,'
will speak on his musical experiences
throughout the world on May 18 at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. Warwick Fairfax
at Bellevue Hill at 8.15 p.m. The White
Cross Dinner Dance Committee has
arranged the talk, which is in aid of the
St. John Ambulance Brigade. The com-
mittee will hold its dinner-dance at
Prince’s on June 7.


MELBOURNE
Most of Melbourne’s social life has
centred round Coral Sea Week festivities,
which opened with the luncheon given in
the Royale Ballroom by the Australian-
American Association. This was the
largest to be held by the association, more
than 600 attending. Guests-of-honor, the
C.-in-C. of the U.S. Pacific Fleet, Admiral
Felix B. Stump and Mrs. Stump, were
welcomed by association president Sir
John Latham and Lady Latham. The
official party included the Premier and
Mrs. Bolte, Lord Mayor Sir Frank
Selleck and Lady Selleck, U.S. Consul-
General Gerald Warner and his wife,
Rear-Admiral U. S. G. Sharp (command-
ing the visiting U.S. squadron), Lady
Dixon, Mrs. R. G. Casey and Sir Wilfrid
and Lady Kent Hughes.
A highlight of the Coral Sea Week
festivities was the lunchtime march
through the city in which Australian and
American Servicemen and Australian
Servicewomen took part. Mrs. Felix B.
Stump and Mrs. A. R. Garrett were on
the official dais at the Town Hall to
watch' their husbands, Admiral Stump
and Lieut.-General Garrett, G.O.C.
Southern Command, take the salute.
After the march, the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress (Cr. Sir Frank and Lady
Selleck) entertained at a reception in the
Town Hall. Lady Selleck wore a black
French-wool frock, a dyed-ermine stole,
and a small beige melusine cap. The
Premier’s wife, Mrs. Henry Bolte, wore
a navy tailored suit with a matching hat.
Among the guests were Lady Herring
(wife of Lieut.-Governor Sir Edmund
Herring); U.S. Consul-General Gerald
Warner and Mrs. Warner; U.S.
Naval Attache Capt. Gage and Mrs.
Gage ; U.S. Air Force Attache Colonel
John Hussey and his wife ; Dr. and Mrs.
Paddy Moran, Mrs. John Buchan, Cr.
Fred Thomas and Mrs. Thomas; Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Menzies, Sir John Allison,
Cr. and Mrs. Lee, and the Town Clerk
(Mr. Rogan) and Mrs. Rogan.
Later on the day of the march a recep-
tion was held on the deck of U.S.S.
Columbus, the hosts being Cruiser
Division Three commander Rear-
Admiral Ulysses S. G. Sharp, Capt.
Gordon A. Uehling, Capt. F. G. Selby,
and Capt. W. J. Schlacks. Guests in-
cluded the Premier and Mrs. Bolte, Legis-
lative Council President" Sir Clifden
Eager and Lady Eager, Legislative
Assembly Speaker W. J. F. McDonald
and Mrs. McDonald, Sir Charles and
Lady Lowe, Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Cummins, Mr. and Mrs. Earl Daum,
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Callahan, Mr. and
Mrs. Harry Cavanaugh, Mr. and Mrs.
L. J. Dooling, Sir Norman and Lady
Martin.
☆ ~ ft ft
The brightest and most informal party,
given to entertain about 40 young officers
of the U.S. Navy, was that by the
Younger Members Groups of the English
Speaking Union at E.S.U. House. Presi-
dent John Ely received the guests,
assisted by the hon.-secretary, Beverley
Broad bent (who wore a cocktail-frock
of silver lam£), and hdn.-treasurer Jean
Cameron. Those who helped make it a
bright evening included Mrs. Bill Banks
(her choice a silver-grey silk-shantung
frock and a brilliant-red wool-stole),
Mrs. Jim Alston (who teamed an emerald-
green angora sweater with a black
taffeta ballerina skirt), Pamela Middleton,
Patricia Heath (who was with her fiance,
Graham Laws), Anne Pertwee (wearing
dark-red velvet), David Wishart and Bob
Lawson.
ft ☆ ft
At the Ball at St. Kilda Palais de
Danse which wound-up the Coral Sea
festivities, a backdrop depicted a tropical-
island scene at one end ; at the other there
was a gay travel-poster display. On every
table was a palm-tree, the broad leaves
made of green cellophane attached to a
bamboo stem. In the absence of the Lieut.-
Governor, Sir Edmund Herring, who
was ill, Lady Herring was his representa-
tive, and she was received by the Federal
and State president of the Australian-
American Association (Sir John Latham),
and Lady Latham. Lady Herring chose
a full-skirted gown of mist-blue tulle,
with the square neckline outlined with
matching satin. Lady Latham’s gown
was of cream satin-brocade. Mrs. Henry
Bolte’s chiffon gown in hibiscus-red
tonings had the draped bodice finished
with matching roses. Lady Carrington,
wife of the. High Commissioner for the
U.K., wore a sheath-frock of ice-blue
and silver brocade, the strapless bodice
cuffed with ice-blue to match her tulle
stole.
Although Marianne Liedloff has been
in this country only a little over three
years, she has become one of Melbourne’s
top models. Coming from Berlin as an
assisted migrant, Marianne worked first
on a farm at Lake Bolac, then as house-
keeper and waitress until one day she
was “discovered.” A figure and face
such as hers were not to be denied, and
soon she was in every fashion-parade of
importance. Only 21, Marianne is married
to Werner Pechain, a builder, also from
Germany. They hope to bring out from
Berlin Marianne’s mother and 15-year-
old brother.
Lady Tait wore one of the loveliest
ensembles seen at. the opening night ot
“Double Image” at the Comedy Theatre:
a deep-cream faille theatre-coat, its
shoulders encrusted with gold sequins,
and a white lace sheath-frock embroidered
with pearls. Another eye-catching frock
was that worn by Mrs. Leon Ress. Made
from a gold-silk-tissue sari sprinkled with
pink flowers, the strapless top, of gold-
and-floral patterned-brocade, matched
the band at the hem of the harem skirt.
Mrs. Leon Korman chose a full-skirted
short frock of black silk-taffeta patterned
in green. Mrs. Charles Davidson’s frock
of cinnamon-brown silk-organza was
trimmed with bronze and moonlight
sequins. Mrs. James McGauran’s frock
of pale-grey silk-organza was striped with
pink satin. Sydney designer Beril Jents
made the lovely clothes worn by leading-
lady Bettina Welch.
ft ft ft
Lord Carrington, High Commissioner
for the U.K., was guest-speaker at- the
Royal Empire Society’s luncheon held at
the Town Hall in celebration of Empire
Day. Lady Carrington, who accompanied
her husband, wore a black tailored suit
with a small emerald-green satin cap.
Chairman Sir Thomas White welcomed
the official guests, who included the Arch-
bishop of Melbourne (Most Rev. J. J.
Booth) and Mrs. Booth, Lady Dixon,
Mr. and Mrs. C. E. Newton (he is presi-
dent of the Society of St. George), Mr.
and Mrs. lan Connell (she is senior vice-
president of the Victoria League), Mr. and
Mrs. J. M. Maclntyre, Mr. and Mrs.
Carr-Gregg (he heads the U.K. Infor-
mation Office) and Major-General
Kingsley Norris and his wife.
CANBERRA
Lady Slim attended the first symphony
concert of the season presented by the
Canberra Orchestral Society in Univer-
sity College Hall. Her Excellency is
patroness of the society and was wel-
comed by Mrs. Raymond Macourt, Mrs.
Harold Berry and Mr. and Mrs. James
D. Fraser. Under the able baton of
Raymond Macourt this small orchestra of
only 30 pieces produced some good
music ; the programme included Mozart’s
Concerto for Flute and Orchestra, in
which the soloist was Dr. John Falk,
president of the society, whose perform-
ance was polished and pleasing. The
success of this concert (the best so far)
augurs well for the society’s aim to builcl
a first-class orchestra, and Canberra
music-lovers should look forward to
future performances.
ft ft ft
Tn a setting of autumn-foliage and
flowers decorating the Albert Hall, fifteen
debutantes made their bow to the Arch-
bishop of Canberra and Goulburn, the
Most Rev. Eris M. O'Brien, at the annual
ball of St. Patrick’s Church. Two petite
flower-girls, Anne Quinane and Margot
Culnane, preceded the deb.-set into the
ballroom where the presentation was
made by Mrs. J. H. Gleeson. His Grace
was introduced to the official party by the
president of the ' ball committee, Mrs:
J. H. Scholtens.


“Have one of these horse
types walk across while you
take it. Get the big tree out
front with the broncs parked
under it. It’ll go with what-
ever I give ’em tomorrow.”
“That’s about all you will
get,” says Malek, looming over
the bar. “Street with horses.
If it wasn’t for Rose hearing
the thing I’d say the town was
cooking it up. Great blokes
for the joke here. But I’d
know if Rose was play-acting.
Beer again?”
“Thanks. It’s certainly
strange you haven’t heard it.”
“I sleep sound, like Yakka
told you.”
Heemey gets Yakka and has
him walk across the street with
his dog while he takes the pic-
ture. He gets the low sun
slap against everything and the
rearing Horsecollar for back-
ground. He comes in with
Yakka, rests his camera on the
bar, fans his face with his hat.
“Whew! Damn’ near sun-
down and still hot out there!”
“Well, allow me! ” says
Yakka, fishing out a note.
“Must wet the head of a
promising film-career.”
“Perfect in the part,”
Heemey concedes. “Walked
across that road like a champ.”
“Miracle you got him to
walk anywhere,” says Malek.
Yakka shows big white teeth
in a grin. Hansen comes in
flushed red from the heat in
the bakehouse.
“Must be hot in there,”
Crocker says.
Hansen nods, raising his pot.
“Don’t know whether to drink
this or pour it over me,” he
says.
“You’re dressed right for
pouring it over you,” Malek
grunts.
“Remember the time you
wore a shirt?” Yakka chips
Hansen. “Came out of, the
bakehouse with it soaked
through and got pneumonia.
Hundred in the shade outside,
too.”
“Touched the tombstone
that time,” Hansen remembers.
“Thought it was Malek’s
house-rum. Bloody relieved
when they told me it was only
pneumonia.”
Malek uses a lot of force
squeezing a beer-cloth into a
bucket. There’s no sugar-
coating on the look he gives
Hansen. The black eyes bore
into the blond man’s skull.
Malek saves his sense of humor
for worthier subjects than
Hansen.
The tea-gong sounds and
Rose arrives to relieve Malek.
“Hullo, Sven! ” she greets
Hansen, and sweeps the smile
around the other customers.
The atmosphere can use it.
A FTER the meal the news-
men settle in deckchairs
on the veranda and smoke.
Dusk fills the bowl that holds
Tooma Tooma, darkening the
sharp slope of the range and
dimming the red light along
the rim of the Horsecollar.
“Got your ears pricked?”
Malek has come out and rests
his bulk on the rail.
“Quiet enough now. Hear
a crowbar drop. Do they
keep you busy at night?”
Crocker makes conversation.
“Night’s our busy time. We
close down strictly about mid-
night, unless someone’s still
thirsty.”
“Popular pub, eh?”
“The only pub. And it’s
good beer. But the day trade
wouldn’t saddle a horse. At
night they come in like moths.”
“Where do they come
from?”
Malek sweeps his arm in a
half-circle. “Where do the
moths come from? They ride
in, drive in from the cattle-
runs out through the gap.
There’s truckies, road-workers,
timber-workers, men from the
farms up round about the
Horsecollar, some dog-baiters
and tick-men.”
“Men’s country, eh? Not a
lot of ’em married and tied
down.”
“There’s a lot of footloose
young lairs. One of ’em giving
me trouble right now.”
“He wants to marry and get
tied down?” Crocker probes.
“He wants to marry Rose.”
“Hansen?”
“Huh.”
“Footloose? He’s got the
bakery.”
“Brainloose then. Does his
dough on this amateur-radio
muck. Up all night talking to
Honolulu, Timbuctoo, wind up
talking to himself.”
“Clever bloke, eh?”
“I don’t like clever fellers.
Clever and crazy go close to-
gether. Too close with
Hansen.”
“Well, can’t say I blame him
about Rose. A nice girl.
You can’t hang on to her for
ever.”
“I can hang on to her for
something better than Hansen.
She’s not twenty yet. She’ll
be wanting her tea.” He
moves away towards the bar.
“You reckon I’m better than
Hansen?” Heemey asks
Crocker.
“I’d say you’d have to prove
it ... to Hansen! ”
jink down the
range like falling fireflies.
A truck lights the street with
a bumpy glare and angles in
to the hotel front. Horses
cloppity out of the dark,
riders swing to the ground and
jingle in over the veranda.
There’s a growing murmur of
voices.
“Let’s meet some more
people,” says Crocker.
They meet Newbound from
the bank and Duggan of the
sawmill, solid citizens with
their feet on the ground.
“Well, I wish you luck,”
Duggan tells them. “The old
bunyip’s got me bamboozled.
I’ve quit worrying about it.
Having trouble holding the
missus and kids, though. They
damn’ near went bush last
night.”
“One thing,” says New-
bound, “you won’t have to
strain your ears. It’s a mix-
ture of a whale gargling and
one of Duggan’s saws going
through galvanised iron.”
“I believe you,” says
Crocker. “But I want to see
it.”
“I’m not so sure / do!”
says Newbound. “It’s a
wonder one or two of Paul’s
star customers don’t see it by
midnight.”
“And saddle it!” says
Malek, who always seems to
have an ear cocked.
It’s a U-shaped bar with
Malek and a cash-register in
the centre, a light hanging over-
head and a shadowy ring of
faces, shoulders and elbows all
round. Malek’s yardman,
cleaned-up and shaved for bar-
duty, comes in to lend a hand.
He sweeps up a fistful of
empty pots by the handles and
fans them under the taps.
“There you are, gents.”
“Thanks, Nugget.”
TVrUGGET rarely asks a man
what he’s drinking.
Crocker watches him slide
and thump some truly color-
ful blends and beverages before
the customers. He grabs
unerringly among bottles
stacked overhead and under
the counter. Beers with a long
dash of this and a short dash
of that.
Foaming red Adelaide-
shandies, black - and - tans,
portergaffs, wines, rums and
whiskies with varied acces-
sories. One customer likes gin
in his beer, another swirls
vermouth in a small pewter.
Fussy drinkers.
“Some memory!” Crocker
applauds Nugget’s per-
formance.
“Asking ’em their drinks’d
be like asking ’em their names,”
Malek tells him.
“You think this thing
exists?” Crocker hammers
again.
“Ptchaah ! I don’t know
what’s going on, but I’ll bet
there’s no animal!”
“Never any tracks?”
“Not that I know of.”
“And nobody’s seen any-
thing?”
“No.”
“Look! ” says Crocker.
“What about a reward for
any man producing the animal
and proof it’s the thing that
makes this row at night?
Good stuff for the hotel. I’ll
give it publicity. You should
be safe enough, and it’ll shut
up the calamity-howlers unless
they produce.”
“It’s already shut ’em up,”
says Duggan, laughing. “Listen
to ’em!”
Malek has an attentive
audience for his reply. Hansen
BEYOND MY LOVE
Time, which whispers night into your hair
And flowers your breasts, and which arpeggios
Your laughter into miracles as clear
As lyres, now, which curves like laked flamingos
In the secrets of your throat, is the glass spear
That, undetected, splinters tomorrow
From your eyes, and shall dissolve to air
Your loveliness.
And, saying this, I know
That all my language and lament is mere
Futility and cannot halt time’s flow,
That all my love is powerless to tear
Your youth away. Impotently, I know
It is beyond my love to interfere,
For time has sent its knives through me also.
QUEENSLAND.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT.


seems to choke into his beer
and Yakka slaps him on the
back with a “There, there,
there! ”
“I’ll do that, by God,” says
Malek. “A hundred quid!”
Loud cheers from the
audience. Now Malek can
barely make himself heard.
“Type a notice about the prize-
money and conditions,” he’s
telling Crocker, “and I’ll sign
it with witnesses and pin it up.”
Within half an hour Crocker
has phoned the item to the
“Post-Record” and Heemey
has a picture of Malek pinning
it up. He gets another flash-
light of men on the veranda
with rifles handy. Then he
drives off with Duggan and
gets a picture of Mrs. Duggan
locking a window over a bed
with children asleep in it.
Later Crocker and Heemey
lie on their beds listening to
the drone of the last trucks
and cars die in the distance,
and some formidable snoring
in a near-by room. Their rest
is not otherwise afeturbed.
TN the morning Crocker
wakes to thumping sounds
and thick chocolatey dialogue
outside.
*“You go ’way now, do some
work at the sawmill! Last
night I give you two-bob.
What you do with that, eh?”
Crocker sits up and looks
out. A large abo. woman
balloons over an ironing-
board. Out on the grass
shuffles her lord and master.
“Never mind all the time
askin’ questions,” he says in a
throaty guttural. “You gimme
two-bob now, eh?”
“I’ll give you somethin’, you
don’t go ’way!” says the lady,
thumping the iron. “I’ll tell
Mr. Malek you hangin’ round
makin’ a nuisance all right!”
“Hey, chuck me a smoke,”
says Heemey. “Thanks.”
“Plenty of abos. here,”
Crocker observes. “What
about digging up a black-
tracker? Have him scout
around at daybreak next time
the business happens? Tracks
or no tracks, it’s good for the
story.”
“Yeah, every little helps,”
says Heemey. “I'll line-up a
tracker.”
Crocker lies back, lights a
smoke, stares at the ceiling.
There’s a tap on the door.
Rose comes in, dew-fresh, with
tea on a tray. Heemey starts
from under the sheet to take
the tray, then remembers it
was too hot for pyjamas when
he turned in. He tries to say
something scintillating instead.
“Ah! Tea!” he says.
“Did you sleep well?”
“Yes,” says Crocker. “We’ll
have to do better than this!”
“You want our old animal
to roar?”
“It’s got to roar! Feller
started snoring last night , and
we thought hullo-here-it-is!
But”
“Oh, it’s much more terrible
than that! That’s Dad. He
should sleep in the woodshed.
Sven —Sven Hansen used to be
furious when he lived in the
next room. He’d be trying to
hear Alaska or Java or some-
where”—
“But now your Dad’s snores
are music in his ears,” says
Crocker.
“It’s nice when we ? re saying
goodnight,” says Rose.
“Woo -wool I’ll bet it is!”
Heemey exclaims.
Rose laughs, and her skirt
does a tango-swirl as she goes
out.
“That girl hits you like a
hot rum!” says Heemey.
“With knockout - drops,
Heemey! Stick to beer and
your camera.”
AFTER breakfast they
lounge on the veranda as
the heat mounts drowsily,
feeling themselves slowing
down to Tooma Tooma tempo.
“Makes you feel guilty.”
“Yeah, the way we hustle
after it in the city.”
“Y’know,” Crocker observes,
“these people aren’t hicks.
Funny in the city how we
downgrade ’em. Anyone
beyond the tramtracks.”
“Yeah. Looks silly from
here.”
“These people have got all
they want. A true community.
More real money. Less worry.
If they get an itch for the
crowd and the circus they can
jump a plane to the city and
pull out when they’ve got a
bellyful. Mostly they don’t
want. They’re educated.
They’ve knocked about
back-country, cities, wars.”
“As you say, not hicks.”
“So we come up here with
the wrong idea on a story like
this. Gullible yokels, believe
in banshees, bunyips. Bull-
dust!”
“Huh?”
“We’ve got to smarten-up.
Stop looking for a gargoyle in
a gumfork. Get next to the
people. Someone’s got a clue,
an idea, an opinion, a hot
slant. You go and get shown
over the sawmill. Have it
black with two sugars at
smoke-oh. Take ’em a buck-
shee group-picture. Be a
Tooma Tooman.”
“Jeez, that sawmill splits my
eardrums from here! ”
“It’ll condition ’em for the
Howling Horror.”
“All right. Hansen asked if
you were the Crocker used to
play cricket.”
“What did you say?”
“Beneath those lazy layers
of lard it’s the same Crocker.”
“Who knows?” says
Crocker. “I may become a
Tooma Tooman myself.”
"jVTWBOUND strides along
the road from the bank,
slants in towards Crocker.
“D oi n g anything after
lunch?” he asks.
“Not a thing,” says Crocker.
“I’ve got to look at some
cattle at Tangie Creek, just a
few miles out, if you’d care
for the run.”
“I’m your man,” says
Crocker. “A drink before
lunch?”
“It’s well over the yard-
arm ! ”
Malek yawns, bored stiff.
There’s a slow-motion euchre-
game on the side-veranda and
a blowfly buzzing in the bar.
“Are we disturbing you,
Paul?” says Newbound, grin-
ning. Malek jerks a tufted
black eyebrow towards the
scrape of boots and ruffle of
cards.
“That game’s in its third
week,” he says. “Three pony-
beers and a short rum about
every half-hour. Knock-off
for a spell at night and start
fresh in the morning. Drive
a man crazy.”
“What are they?” Crocker
asks.
“Goldminers painting it
red!” It’s the first grin he’s
seen on Malek.
“What’s this Tangie Creek
like?” Crocker asks New-
bound.
“Well, it hasn’t quite got the
bustle of Tooma.”
“Having a look at it?” says
Malek.
“Yes.”
“Better take a butterfly-net,”
says Malek, jerking a thumb at
the reward notice. “Never
know what you’ll see when
you’re out without a gun.”
“If it fits in a butterfly-net
I’ll give a prize! ” says Crocker.
(To be concluded next week)
"For Petes sake don’t Wake him — he’ll only start grizzling about
not Wanting to move.”


wherever he was he thought as a
South African.
There was an element of sadness in
this unmistakable South African know-
ing he would not stay. Age, accident
and ill-health kept him from plunging
into the physical life of Europe as he
used to in his triumphant youth. Never-
theless, when we last saw him on his
farm in Portugal he had his feet hard
on a soil that, growing grass and vines
and flowers, could never be alien, just
as Camoens was as much his country-
man as Byron or Baudelaire. His
enemies on the Left have called him
a reactionary for years (while pointing
to poems like “The Serf” to say that
he was really a Communist gone
wrong); and so he was a reactionary,
one who reacted with warmth and
sympathy to anyone who would talk
and drink with him as a man and not
as a time-server or a doctrinaire. In
one of his latest and best poems he
drove all that I have been trying to
say home in one marvellous phrase: —
Comradeship
Is all the anthropology I know.
The last letter I had from him
ended abruptly with the word “111.” I
cabled and got the reply, “Not known
at this address.” He was killed in a
car-accident in Portugal in late April.
Mary, who was driving, is said to be
in hospital.
Wildflowers
Anybody who has chanced upon the
little Australian flax-lily scattering its
blue sparks amongst the giant kauris
of the Waipoua forest in New Zealand,
as this reviewer did lately, must turn
with special interest to Sheila Natusch’s
Native Plants: an Introduction to the
Plant Life of New Zealand (Pegasus
Press) to try to find out how that small
adventurer crossed the Tasman and
what other Australian plants may
have accompanied it.
And if Miss Natusch has little space
in her booklet to discuss plant-
migration and—unless it lurks some-
where unrecognised under its botanical
name —does not mention the flax-lily,
at least one can confirm in her pages
that New Zealand shares the sun-
orchid (Thelymitra) and the nodding-
greenhood with Australia. The sun-
orchid, which we usually find on high,
clear mountain-ridges, seems to have
taken to the swamps over there ; and
the greenhood is popularly known as
the “kaka-beak orchid,” a pleasant and
appropriate name but somewhat con-
fusing because another wildflower
(Clianthus), “all but extinct in its wild
state but frequently grown as a garden-
plant,” is also known as kaka-beak.
Clianthus is one of the few red flowers
which enliven New Zealand’s generally
rather pale-colored flora.
Miss Natusch’s booklet is sometimes
disappointing in its brevity. It seems
a pity, for instance, not to mention that
the kie-kie is (faintly) edible and that it
is usually pronounced “giggy”»
similarly, Miss Natusch might surely
have given the amateur some guide to
the color of the bladderwort (usually
purple) instead of just saying that it is
“bright.” Incidentally, how foul a
name that is for so dainty a flower!
An index would have helped ; and,
though the little pen-drawings are
attractive, wildflower - books really
must have color-plates. Still, the
booklet is easy and amiable to read
and should usefully fulfil its purpose
as an “introduction” —where one may
learn that the abhorred bidibidi, useful
only to children to throw at unwary
passers-by, is a rose ; and where one
may meet New Zealand’s wonderful
array of daisies:—
There are about 260 spp. in New
Zealand —a huge number. Many are
confined to this country. The 58
Celmisias are showy white mountain-
daisies ; there are 26 kinds of vege-
table-sheep and matweeds ; 11 kinds
of Helichrysum or everlasting-daisy ;
35 Senecios, shrubs as well as herbs ;
35 shrubby Olearias and 5 shrubby
Cassinias.
Australian wildflowers have a
renewed airing in How to Know
Western Australian Wildflowers: Part
II by W. E. Blackall and B. J. Grieve
(University of Western Australia Press).
In spite of some charming color-
plates, this (the amateur must be
warned) is a rather formidable little
book, full of diagrams, measurements
and that wonderful private-language of
botanists in which the tongue must
find its way round “glabrous,**
“spinescent” and “obconical-tubular.”
But for anyone with a smattering of
botanical knowledge or undaunted by
scientific method it provides a system
whereby 500 species of Westralian wild-
flowers (many of them of cou.se also
to be found elsewhere in Australia)
may easily-enough be identified, and as
a work of record it is invaluable. It
completes the series begun with Part
1 of “How to Know Western Aus-
tralian Wildflowers” in 1954 and com-
prises manuscript-material left by Dr.
Blackall, organised, rearranged and
amplified by Dr. Grieve and “scripted”
by Joan M. Rayner.
THE BIRD ON THE BOUGH
Here in this cold morning
The bird clings to the lemon bough
As to warmth within a warning,
For the lemon is rimed with coming
winter now.
The bird’s small feet fasten
Into the sunlight on the frost,
And its twittering says hasten
And hold the sun of your joy before, it
is lost.
Its rapids of sweetness summon
Ruffles of fire till its feathers glow,
So that in the white-rimed lemon
Cold winter thaws on the leaves before
it can grow.
So hold the bird, and the wonder I
Do not let them fly away or fall.
The sun then shall not go under
Horizons where the hoar-frost covers all.
Q.
DAVID ROWBORHAM.
Gogol
The life of Nikolai Gogol, who wrote
one of the world’s finest short-stories,
“The Overcoat,” Russia’s greatest
comic novel, “Dead Souls,” and one
of Russia’s finest comic plays, “The
Government Inspector,” as it is told by
David Magarshack in Gogol (Faber),
is almost too painful to contemplate.
For instance, now that most of Aus-
tralia’s literary gents are measuring
themselves up against the possibility
of being invited to Sydney’s (projected)
Chair of Australian Literature, it is
terrible to think that Gogol as a young
man was fired with enthusiasm for
Russian literature, and having made a
hit in St. Petersburg with some folk-
stories of the Ukraine which he had
asked his mother to help him with
in her letters, and feeling that from
these he might proceed to a history of
the Ukraine (On his way to a history of
the world), had himself appointed to
the chair of medieval history at St.
Petersburg. Alas, after his first
outline-lecture on the principles he
would observe, when the time came to
“turn to the facts themselves,” he
found he didn’t know any.
How many know what is wrong
with Australian literature; how few
have patiently digested the contents of
the Mitchell Library! ,
Being a man of genius, Gogol almost
unconcernedly recovered from this
debacle and went on to the success of
“The Government Inspector,” after
which he lived for most of the rest of
his life abroad, borrowing from friends
and getting substantial aid from the
Tsar, who had been persuaded to lift
the censorship for “The Government
Inspector” (a satire on public
officials!) and had been pleased to be
highly amused with it; and thus, mainly
in Italy, he slowly finished the first part
of “Dead Souls.”
Mr. Magarshack follows him closely
through his friendships and changes of
address; his distaste for women except
as spiritual playmates, his rejection as
of unworthy origin by the parents of
a woman of rank to whom he had


G>6e Latest Novels
THE MANDARINS
by Simone de Beauvoir. This fine novel,
set in Paris in the years after World
War 11, was the winner of the French
Prix Goncourt. “A living page of
history: the political, intellectual, moral
history of the post-liberation period.”
(Figaro, France.) 22/6 (post 1/6)
THE BIG FELLA
By Henry Clune, author of By His
Own Hand. This colourful story tells
of an American politician who has to
fight the results of his own weak-
nesses as well as his political battles.
20/- (post 1/2)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Tel.: B 0363.
66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l, Tel.: MF 6166
FOLLOW MY DUST
A biography of Arthur Upheld
JESSICA HAWKE
in collaboration with ARTHUR UPFIELD
A unique and racy biography of the famous author with a vivid
background of the Australian outback.
At all booksellers 22/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
WAR IN THE DARK—told for the first time!
NIGHT FIGHTER
C. F. Rawnsley & R. Wright
Here is the remarkable story of how Britain gained mastery of the darkened
skies . . . how the “magic eye” foiled the German bombers . . . how the back-
room boys combined with the courage of the men in the air to perfect the new
techniques of night fighting. The story of John (“Cat’s Eyes”) Cunningham
and “Jimmy” Rawnsley, the greatest night fighter team of the war.
From all
Booksellers
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
Order
Now
proposed marriage, his rejection by a
young man for whom, apparently
unconscious of its implications, he had
contracted a jealous affection.
His was the kind of genius which
barely keeps on the rails. In his next
venture, a series of essays, each
addressed to a close friend, he dissected
the friend’s character and told him or
her how it should be altered so that it
might labor to the best purpose for
God and Russia. Publication of this
book brought obloquy and ridicule
upon Gogol.
Back in Russia, he was near com-
pletion of the second part of “Dead
Souls,” where the excellent comedy of
Russian manners falls to pieces in an
attempt to convert the nation to
religion. It was anguish over the
conflict of the book with his newly-
acquired faith, Mr. Magarshack con-
siders, which drove Gogol to his final
terrible moment, and probably right
off the rails: he burnt his book in the
Moscow mansion of Count Alexander
Tolstoy and then refused food, starving
himself to death.
Reviewed Briefly
Two volumes of The Paston Letters
are a recent Everyman reprint. These
letters—here selected from a thousand
items available in the Paston collection
—give an extraordinarily intimate and
lively picture of English domestic life
in the 15th century, full of news and
gossip, marriages and childbirth, pies
and riots and ribbons; and will perhaps
be of special interest at the moment,
since they have lately been done-up in
a bestselling novel.
* * * *
Recent Fontana reprints from Collins
include Jon Cleary’s Climate of
Courage, Paul Brickhill’s Reach for
the Sky and Lawrence Earl’s The
Crocodile Hunt.
# * * *
Moment for Murder: Alfred Eichler
(Hammond). Was the health-prepara-
tions tycoon murdered? And if so, was
the murderer a member of a conference
of advertising-executives at his house,
or his young wife who had been having
affairs with the advertising-executives
and also a new young man, or the
servant who took drugs, or one of the
doctors working on a new preparation
to prolong life? Mr. Eichler, as in
previous works, exploits his special
knowledge of advertising - agencies ;
and very dangerous places they seem to
be.
* * * *
The Difference to Me: John Bryan
(Faber). A Canadian comes to England
to buy the Prince Henry copy of
Raleigh’s “History of the World,” and
finds that the beautiful Mrs. Vibart is
trying to get rid of this family-treasure
because she is being blackmailed by a
person who has pictures of her in his
flat. She doesn’t like her husband
enough to stop her playing with the
Canadian when he visits her at the
ancestral mansion by the sea and dis-
covers that her young sister is engaged
to a young man who makes mysterious
voyages in a motor-boat. The black-
mailer is later found to have something
to do with this mysterious traffic, and
there is a considerable amount of well-
bred derring-do: when T. S. Eliot's firm
goes into the thriller-business, it must
be either murder in the cathedral or
murder in the cocktail-party.
* * * *
Whizz for Atomms: Geoffrey Willans
and Ronald Searle (Parrish). This
third of the Nigel Molesworth series is
proportionately diluted. “Down with
Skool!” with its diamond-eyed and
somehow pathetic portraits of small-
school masters skimmed the cream of
Mr. Willans’s vision, and he and Mr.
Searle are now thinking up bright
notions to exploit their success. The
best piece in this set is “Six-gun Moles-
worth,” although the picture of Moles-
worth dancing with gurlies has its
moments: —• »
Cornered i bow, take gurl by my
gloved hand and draw her litely on
the floor. After a few turns she
speke shyly:
“This is a waltz, you big lout.
You hav kicked me 5 times.”
The Searle drawings are as brilliant as
ever: Nigel as the learned detective, as
the casual cowboy, and the bored
mechanic, and the front-view of a row
of horses, across pages 54-55, are worth
the book.


V
fgd
Car, Truck, Tractor, Earth Moving Equipment, Radio, Launch, Motor Cycle,
Home Lighting
Distribution :
ERG BATTERIES Pty. Ltd., 156 Gouiburn St., Sydney.
KEEP BROS, and WOOD Pty. Ltd., 200 Latrobe St.,
Melbourne.
ERG BATTERIES Pty. Ltd., 32 Barry Parade, Brisbane
DAVID L. PRESCOTT, 91-95 Flinders St, Adelaide
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, 14 Cameron St., Launceston.
