

nm
1
LiA
e
SOLERO
SWEET OK DRY
n
The Bulletin
AMERICA AND THE MIDDLE EAST— PAGE 28
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 78 No. 4015
Wednesday, January 23,/1957
Price 1/-
P. m v fpr „, a , General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
THE POTTERY OF BELLEEK
IS KNOWN THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD
ON the bank of the River Erne, in
Fermanagh, near the border of Ulster
and Eire, is the village of Belleek, famous
for the pottery which bears its name.
It was there that,, one hundred years
ago, a local landlord noticed the startling
whiteness of his tenants' cottages, and an
industry which now earns two hundred
thousand dollars a year in the American
market was established.
The landlord was John Caldwell
Bloomfield, and he discovered that the
dazzling limewash of the cottage walls
was due to local deposits of beldspathic
clay, one of the main constituents of
porcelain. In association with a Londoner
named Armstrong, a factory was estab-
lished and within six years their products
were widely known and in great demand
by connoisseurs of fine china.
Today, in this little village factory
which is open to visitors, one hundred
and twenty craftsmen work with vats
and kilns, clay and colors to satisfy an
ever-growing market. The raw materials
are now imported —feldspar from Scan-
dinavia and china clay or kaolin from the
little town of St. Austell in Cornwall —
but the quality of the finished article
which ranks with the finest Dresden and
Gibbio Majolica, remains unchanged.
The making of Belleek is essentially a
handcraft, for there is only one machine
in the whole factory, and this is used for
producing spaghetti-like lengths of clay
which are then moulded by hand into
china trellis work which is the outstand-
ing feature of Belleek. The tiny flowers
which are used to decorate some of the
articles are all created by hand ; every
individual petal and leaf being made
separately. The shamrock is also a popu-
lar motif, and there are some exquisite
reproductions from the famous “Book
of Kells.”
The Belleek trademark of a round
tower, Irish wolfhound and harp is known
and appreciated wherever the potter’s art
is recognised.
No. 333: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


UOOKHUNTER, Box 2671 a n a ,
volume. rV S u S or flnd ad irior n*
S rap hy . hißtory ,
The Red Page
HOMAGE TO McCRAE
Most of the contributors to
“Southerly,” No. 3, 1956, which has
been designed as a tribute to Hugh
McCrae on his 80th birthday, touch
with mild or not-so-mild indignation
on the one point where this great lyrist
appears, to the uninitiated, to be
assailable: the lack of specifically
Australian imagery in many of his best
poems.'
Thus, still loyally serving Australian
literature and his old magazine from
the wildwoods of South Africa,
Professor R. G. Howarth writes:—
To understand Hugh McCrae as
a poet, then, we need only realise
that he writes as he wills, with perfect
freedom. No narrow conception of
poetry binds him: he is not con-
cerned whether his lyrics are “Aus-
tralian” in theme and setting, modern
or Victorian in feeling, “conven-
tional” or “experimental” in form.
He writes simply out of a full mind.
Perhaps, since anything can be
proved and disproved by argument, the
best way to see how right McCrae was
to write in his own style—not that he
would, or could, have considered any
other—is simply to take a few of the
best of his poems and compare them
with good poems by writers who use
Australian imagery.
For instance, to take an extreme
example, I do not think it could
seriously be argued that McCrae’s
magnificent “Ambuscade”—
A roar of hooves, a lightning view
of eyes
Redder than fire, of long straight
whistling manes,
Stiff crests and tails drawn out
against the skies,
Of angry nostrils, webbed with
leaping veins,
The stallions come!: —
would be improved by putting it into
the Australian idiom of “Banjo”
Paterson:—
He was hard and tough and wiry,
just the sort that won’t say die'
There was courage in his quick,
impatient tread ; »
And he bore the badge of gameness
in his bright and fiery eye,
And the proud and lofty carriage of
his head.
Other aims, other methods, of course.
Paterson was not trying to write fine
lyrics, any more than McCrae was
trying to write a ballad. I am forced
to quote from “The Man From Snowy
liver” for the odd reason that, except
for a comparatively slight piece by
Judith Wright, nobody in Australia
since the balladists seems to have
written a good poem about a horse.
The comparison, however unfair, will
till serve to illustrate how .a centaur
rom McCrae can far out-distance any
ordinary horse in the field.
And even in the higher reaches of
Australian poetry it would be veiy
lard to find anyone who, using Aus-
tralian instead of classic or medieval
imagery, has outdone McCrae on any
comparable theme. I can’t find in
either of David Campbell’s books that
sne poem with the line “Bless the day
that I was born” which I thought of
quoting as an outcry of joy comparable
with McCrae’s “I Blow My Pipes”; but
there is something of the same note
n his “Windy Gap”:—
A magpie sat in the tree’s high top
Singing a song on Windy Gap
That streamed far down to the plain
below
Like a shaft of light from a high
window.
From the bending tree he sang
aloud, 6
And the sun shone out of the heart
of the cloud
And it seemed to me as we travelled
through
That my sheep were the notes that
trumpet blew.
And so I sing this song of praise
For travelling sheep and blowing
days.
Excellent though David Campbell’s
poem is, with its imagery perfect for
his purposes, “I Blow My Pipes’
would still surely not be improved by
changing the nymphs to sheep:—
I blow my pipes, the glad birds sing,
The fat young nymphs about me
spring,
I am the lord,
I am the lord,
I am the lord of everything.
Or again, nobody in Australia has
written deeper, more passionately
beautiful love-poetry than Judith
Wright:—'
This is the strength that your arm
knows,
the arc of flesh' that is my breast,
the precise crystals of our eyes.
This is the blood’s wild tree that
grows
the intricate and folded rose.
This is the maker and the made;
this is the question and reply ;
the blind head butting at the dark,
the blaze of light along the blade.
O hold me, for I am afraid.
The imagery here, as it happens, is
not particularly “Australian”; but it
is at any rate realistic enough to make
an extraordinary contrast with
McCrae’s: —
Exit the ribald clown—
Enter like bubbling wine,
Lighter than thistledown,
Sweet little Colombine.
Whist! and behold the game,
Long eyes and pointed chin,
Paler than candleflame,
At her feet Harlequin.
Look how their shadows run,
Swift as she flies from him . . .
And yet, who is to say that McCrae’s
poem is not as true of one aspect of
love as Judith Wright’s is of another?
Who is to say, except without making
entirely unnecessary and inappropriate
comparisons, which poem is the
better? And how could McCrae
possibly have achieved his exquisite
symbolic ballet of love in a more
realistic, more “Australian” imagery?
Was he to make Colombine a lubra?
The truth is, of course, that Aus-
tralianism is a good basic standpoint
for Australian poets—not because of
any special mystical virtue in this
country but because it is natural for
any poet to write of his own earth and
his own people in their own language.
But it cannot be a binding rule for
the lyrical genius of a McCrae . . .
which makes its own “rules,” or doesn’t
have any, and which, as some of the
“Southerly” writers point out, inevit-
ably expresses and interprets Australia
simply because McCrae is an Aus-
tralian.
In spite of a few weak spots, it
is an admirable, an historic issue
of “Southerly,” and it should be of
the greatest value in enabling readers
and critics both here and abroad to
see McCrae’s poetiy in correct perspec-
tive as well as to appreciate its rare
qualities. The contributors include
Norman Lindsay, Robert D. Fitz-
Gerald, Lionel Lindsay and Professor
A. R. Chisholm.
D. S.
The Turners of Augusta
Except perhaps to a bookmaker, no
travelling-companion could be less
congenial than a stallion in the next
cabin. But, since pioneer voyages to
Australia have been done before, it is
as well that the stallion came to enliven
Mr. Tom Turner’s quotations from
James Woodward Turner’s diary in
Turners of Augusta (Paterson
Brokensha Pty., Ltd., Perth, W.A.).
James Woodward Turner, with his
family and the usual retinue of
servants, emigrated from England in
October, 1829, thinking to acquire the
large blocks of land that were being
offered at the Swan River settlement
in W.A.
His first day on board the Warrior
at Portsmouth was enlivened by a
collision—when he was sightseeing in
the ship’s boat—wherein, hampered by
his huge overcoat, he was in consider-
able danger of drowning. Thereafter,
with Scottish and Irish emigrants con-
tinually at war, the ladies bickering,
the wine poor, the food scanty and the
stallion kicking in the cabin next door,
the voyage never lacked variety:—
Our companion the stallion horse
is very noisy and troublesome, and
I have been obliged to change my
sleeping cabin, for Maria is afraid
that he will jump out of his stall
through one of the squares of our
windows and make a meal of us
while we are asleep.
On arrival at the Swan the Turners
found that the land-grants had all been
snapped-up; and, after many tribula-
tions, set off again with the Bussell
family and Captain Molloy and his
young bride to pioneer Augusta (W.A.).
There, harassed by the blacks and
abandoned by the Government, they
fought a long, losing battle which
moves the present Mr. Turner to some
bitterness:—
There were no ships, no trade and
no connection with Fremantle
except by blackfellow-tracks through
the bush. They appeared to be deal-
ing with a Government which with-
held these things from them in an
endeavor to force the issue by
starving them into submission, and
because Turner refused to dance to
the Government’s tune he was
hampered and treated as no honest
settler should have been treated....
Turner’s grants amounting to
25,000 acres are still undeveloped
after a period of 125 years, caused
principally by the Government’s
broken promises, and Turner’s
broken heart, together with the land
having been sold to the Karri-jarrah
Timber Company twenty years after
he died.
Mr. Turner is unfortunate—original
documents being always the richest
foundation for histories of this kind-
in that his ancestor’s diary breaks off
at the Cape of Good Hope. An
extremely curt diary kept by Ann
Elizabeth Turner, a daughter of the
pioneer, provides a little more first-
hand material, and, with its anecdotes
of snapper-fishing, duck-shooting and
the rescue of a small boy who fell down
a well with a frog in his hand, does
something not only to picture the life
at Augusta but to relieve the story of
failure; but there are only a few pages
of it.
Mr. Turner’s own writing is
amateurish; the history scrappy and
disjointed. It is hardly a book for
general reading, but it should have
some local interest in Westralia, and,
however naively, puts into compact and
accessible form a pioneer story well
worth preserving.
A Tibetan Lama
Subtitled “The Autobiography of a
Tibetan Lama,” Lobsang Rampa’s
The Third Eye (Seeker and Warburg)
is printed with an unusual foreword
by the publishers:—
Lobsang Rampa has provided
documentary evidence that he holds
medical degrees of the University of
Chungking, and in those documents
he is described as a lama of the
Potala monastery of Lhasa. The
many personal conversations we
have had with him have proved him
to be a man of unusual powers
and attainments. Regarding many
aspects of his personal life he has
shown a reticence that was some-
times bathing; but everyone has a
right to privacy and Lobsang Rampa
maintains that some concealment is
imposed on him for the safety of his
family in Communist - occupied
Tibet.... .We may feel that here and
there he exceeds the bounds of
Western credulity, though Western
views on the subject here dealt with
can hardly be decisive. Nonetheless
the publishers believe ( that “The
Third Eye” is in its essence an
authentic account.... .It is in this
spirit that we are publishing the
book.
And in that spirit one reads it—
the Tibetan babies dipped into ice-
cold streams to see if they will survive;
the rhododendron flowers that are
prepared for eating by being sealed in
a jar of honey-water; the “chung-girls,”
who come to the tea-parties of high-
iu * ac ** es an d wear the hostess’s
clothes ,bo that the guests can admire
the full range of her wardrobe; the
test to which Lobsang Rampa says he
submitted at the age of seven when,
it having been decided that he was
to be a lama, he sat without moving,
without eating or drinking, for three
days in the sun, allowed to rest anc
refresh himself with tea and tsampa
only at night:—
The next day, the third day, as I
sat in my attitude of contemplation,
I could feel myself becoming weaker
and giddy. The lamasery seemed to
swim in a miasma of buildings,
bright colored lights, purple patches,
with mountains and monks liberally
interspersed.
Severe endurance-tests seem to be
the essence of training for a lama
Fortunately, Lobsang Rampa had been
■subjected from his infancy to intensive
training in judo—he could make
man unconscious with a touch on the
n . ec .k —?° that, after his three days
sitting in the sun he had no difficulty
when subjected to his next test, in
tossing over his head the tall bony
monk who was Master of the Acolytes
But then there were the long, arduous
days to be faced: beginning with a
religious service at midnight, then
sleep until 4 a.m., when there was
another service; studies from six to
nine, when there was another service;
studies again from ten till one, then
another service; a brief meal of tea
and tsampa, an hour of manual labor,
an hour of rest, then a solid five hours
of study; a meal of tea and tsampa
again at nine, and so to bed—till
midnight.
By far the most extraordinary ordeal
to which Lobsang Rampa says he was
subjected was that of the opening of
the “third eye,” an honor for which
he was specially selected because he
showed unusual psychic powers. It
consisted, briefly, of boring a hole in
the centre of his forehead with an
instrument resembling a bradawl.
But the rewards, after all the ordeals,
were considerable. With the aid of his
third eye Lobsang Rampa was able
to perceive people’s auras—which
made him very useful to the Dalai
Lama, himself not quite so gifted with
psychic powers, when he hid behind
a screen and observed Chinese and
even British diplomats, thus learn-
ing their true characters. The British,
one is glad to say, came off compara-
tively well, though Lobsang Rampa
doesn’t seem to be very fond of them;
but the Chinese:—
As I looked at them from my place
of concealment I observed the
shimmering of their auras, the
opalescent sheen, shot with murky
red. The turgid swirling of hate-
filled thoughts. Bands and striations
of color, unpleasant colors, not the
clear, pure shades of higher thought
but the unwholesome, contaminated
hues of those whose life-forces are
devoted to materialism and evil-
doing.
There were other rewards. Lobsang
Rampa himself does not seem to have
practised levitation much, though he
says that other initiates used to fly
about in this interesting manner; but
at least he did a considerable amount
of kite-riding, soaring high above the
mountains on these flimsy and
dangerous contraptions from which,
so he says, other less fortunate lamas
were continually tumbling to their
deaths. He also travelled a lot—
though he does not exactly say where
or how—on the astral plane; and,
more specifically, could 'with other
yoga-adepts, by means of correct
breathing, “sit naked on ice, 17,000
feet or so above sea-level, and keep
hot, so hot that the ice is melted and
the adept freely perspires.” One of
his comments on this is worth quoting:
A digression for a moment: the
other day I said that I had done this
myself at 18,000 feet above sea-level.
My listener, quite seriously, asked
me: “With the tide in, or out?”
Travels in the ice—though not sitting
naked on it—took the lama far into
the mountains where, in search of
herbs, he saw through the fog a hot
lake surrounded by tropical vegetation
o Continued on page 35}


STORE OPENS 8.30 AM.
'TRUTH IN ADVtRToINC
m
POST TO BOX 2712 G.P.O.
For continuous service anti economy choose the
STTOOD 9 insulation cooker and water heater
✓ s#
wmommsm
<> v
im
/L
w
mm
■■■■■■ Sw
<7
SS3
■
it
i
RRI
i
•7
4M*S**^
'* I
I
-m
Available on the easiest terms in Sydney
Morning, noon and night, you'll be glad you bought a Well-
stood stove! For convenience, performance and economy,
the Wellstood is far superior to any other heating unit
of its type. It can cook for a family of six, and
be heating their water requirement at the same time . . .
it will burn any solid fuel . . . and it combines all
features you could want in a stove or water heater. See
the beautiful, gleaming Wellstood actually working
and producing hot water in our stove showroom. £132/5/-.
STOVES, GROUND FLOOR, GOULRURN STREETS
40
9a/
I
sro
Cy/
at
“Mercury” hot-water stor-
age cylinder for use with
Wellstood. Priced at £C9.
The Wellstood’s heating
unit supplies ample hot
water for a family’s baths.
Wellstood’s continuous'
supply of piping-hot water
makes your washday easier.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 23, 1957
Vol 78—No. 4015
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings {opposite G.P.0.), Wellington^
THE COMMONWEALTH PROBLEM
HAROLD MACMILLAN is sticking to those
Cabinet Ministers who backed the Suez intervention.
There have been no regrets or apologies; and there
is increasing justification for Anglo-French action
in the evidence brought before the U.S.
Congressional Committees; also in the Budget
brought down by the Eisenhower Administration,
and in the contradictions which are developing in
the policies of President Eisenhower himself and
his Minister of State, John Foster Dulles.
True, Admiral Radford, chairman of the U.S.
Joint Chiefs of Staff, told the Foreign Affairs
Committees of Congress that the withdrawal from
the Middle East of allies of the United States had
“created in the area a dangerous military situa-
tion.” But it seems that all along the United States
has been responsible for that withdrawal, and that
President Eisenhower refused even to discuss the
situation with Sir Anthony Eden, who was against
creating “the dangerous situation.” Moreover,
Mr. Dulles seems to be having it both ways without
regard to logic. He regarded it as a crime that
his allies should make themselves felt in the Middle
East and take decisive steps —which the United
States was not prepared to take —to prevent a flow
of Red influence into the Canal zone. He also
feels that those allies have the greatest interest
in the Middle East, “but does not think it in the
general interest” to make an effort to persuade the
British and French to join in imposing the Eisen-
hower doctrine. He says that “feeling is running
pretty high in the area at present”—as it is, though
mainly thanks to himself and his associates. He
adds that he “cannot think of anything that would
more surely turn the area over to international
Communism than for us to go in there hand-in-hand
with the British and French.”
This is about the most insulting and unforgiv-
able of the many unforgivable utterances of Mr.
Dulles, and one that makes it very difficult for
either the United Kingdom or Australia to
co-operate with him anywhere. It seems that from
now onward the United States proposes to allow
those who have developed and defended the area
and dragged it by the bootstraps out of indigent
barbarism to use it 6nly by grace of the President
of the U.S.A. and the American satellites and
“moral equals” in U.N. Assembly. It also seems
that the usage which will be permitted—Nasser
being the custodian under the wing and protection
of -Washington and U.N.—will be consistent only,
with the interests of the U.S. oil interests.
In terms of greatest simplicity it appears that
the concert of action which has existed among the
great Powers of the Atlantic since 1945 has been
dissolved save so far as it suits the U.S.A. to carry
on.
The position is not a happy one. The
difficulties of Britain and the other countries of
Europe in trade, with oil-supplies reduced to 75
per cent., are tremendous. They are accentuated
for Britain by the fact that the Leftist unions have
a strong hold on heavy industry and transport and
are working on lines which are sinister as far as
the formulators of policy are concerned, and purely
selfish in the rank-and-file.
Right in the middle of the present crisis, for
instance, the Amalgamated Engineering Union in
England is planning, over the heads of the executive,
which has counselled moderation, a token strike
unless a demand for a 10 per cent, increase in wages
is not agreed to by the end of next month. The
increase they demand would apply to the whole of
heavy industry, including shipbuilding. New
shipping is being built in the world on a scale
without precedent—about 6,000,000 tons last
year, and as this replaces the old bottoms,
many of which are just about worn-out,
costs are bound to rise even more than they
are rising, since new ships provide new standards
of crew-costs and accommodation and new levels
of running charges which are on an alarmingly
mounting scale. In an importing country like the
United Kingdom and exporting countries like the
U.K. and Australia, these charges must increasingly
be reflected in the cost of living, as must the
shortages caused by lack of petrol and rise in fuel-
prices and additional charges involved in the
lengthened voyage round the Cape of Good Hope
for the tens of millions of tons of shipping which
have had to be diverted from Suez.
Such a situation calls for combination of the
countries of Europe and of the British Common-
wealth to look after their own interests, irrespective
of what the United States and Russia are graciously
prepared to concede to them. It would be wrong
to think in terms of the dollar-aid which President
Eisenhower seems prepared to lavish in return for
allegiance to U.S. policies and recognition of
Washington’s right to run the Western world.
The main thing with the British Common-
wealth is to develop fully its undeveloped resources
and to avoid to the limit conflicts and involvement
in world differences. It is vital that raw materials
such as abound in all the colonies and Dominions
almost untouched should be translated into usage.
Australia could, and would, figure in any such
programme on a big scale. Its great mineral
fields of the North are expanding under exploration
every day, and knowledge has provided an entirely
new picture of the population problem when
combined with the samplings of potentialities which
are being shown on the Snowy Mountains project
and in the reclamation work of the C.5.1.R.0. and
State Agricultural Departments and private
enterprise.
There is room for a vast surge forward
in industrial- and population-development by
combined effort of Canada and Australia with their
minerals, the former’s oil, the latter’s wool, the
wheatgrowing and meat-producing capacity of
both, plus the capital, manpower, technical genius
and astonishing native resource and resources of
Great Britain.
The hopeful American press which has been
talking glibly about the subsidence of the United
Kingdom into the position of a “new Sweden or
Holland” would have something to think about
in a very few years if a combination of ideas and
effort made the opportunity to develop fully the
greater white dominions and the Old Country under
a concerted plan.
It is something which calls for united and
imaginative thinking within the white Common-
wealth, and deliberate action. It also calls for the
imaginative co-operation of Labor in place of the
greedy and selfish class-war which the tide of
Socialism has washed-up on the shores of this
country and also now is washing-up among the
great industries which are the lifeblood of the
British Isles.
A concert of development and trade does not
necessarily involve any sacrifice of political
independence by the participants. ' It merely calls
for mutual association in planned use of resources
of material and power which are now idle and,
being idle, are leaving vacant space into which both
industrial strength and population can be packed.
Such empty spaces are open as a temptation
to the imperialists of the world, who seem to be
growing more numerous. Properly filled, they
represent our future security and continuance of
the living standards in which the British have led
the world.
"Fill If or Lose It"
AS a counterweight to the many pessimistic
fainthearts who in the past twelve months have
taken fright at the problems raised by the impact
of Australia’s immigration programme and who
have seen no solution other than a drastic cut in
the annual intake, it is refreshing to hear from a
man who, after a study of population-trends in
both overpopulated and underpopulated lands, is
prepared to say boldly that, far from being reduced,
the target should be raised.
Augustin Lodewyckx is a New Australian who
has been in this country long enough to be called
an Old Australian. Born in Belgium, he spent
several years in South Africa before coming to
Australia. He was Professor of Germanic
Languages at Melbourne University from 1922 to
1947. In People for Australia —A Study in
Population Problems (F. W. Cheshire, Melbourne)
he considers first some estimates made by
demographers and others of the ultimate carrying-
capacity of the earth. Sixty years ago geographers
placed the figure at round about 6000 million, and
in the 1920’s the German scientist Penck calculated
it at 9000 million. Commonwealth Statistician
George Knibbs wrote in 1927 that if the world’s
population continued to grow at current rates then
by the year 2231 “the earth would contain 16,000
million persons, jostling one another from pole to
pole in the consistency of 304.8 persons an acre
and making the globe one vast city. This was an
impossible state of affairs to contemplate.” He
would not have found this quite so impossible to
contemplate had he checked his calculations and
substituted “square mile” for “acre.” Knibbs
placed the probable limit of population at 9000 to
11,000 million, an estimate fairly dose to Penck’s.
Three years ago Colin Clark, basing his estimates
on the standards of Denmark, where the land is
not by nature very fertile but has been improved by
careful cultivation, decided that the earth could
comfortably accommodate 12,000 million, which
is approximately five times the present population.
To Australians the ultimate carrying-capacity
of the world is of academic interest only, but the
ultimate capacity of Australia is a vital and urgent
matter. And of particular urgency is the target to
be aimed at in the next decade or so. It is largely
agreed that not economic considerations but
defence and future security should be the governing
factors.
Estimates of Australia’s ultimate capacity for
population vary tremendously. Penck thought 480
million not beyond our capacity—perhaps he was
thinking of sheep, or rabbits. Fischer, another
German, suggested 170 million. American Professor
East, who published a controversial book on
population in 1923, wasn’t nearly so optimistic. He
thought our rate of increase—two per cent, per
annum—excessive, and pointed out that in a
hundred years it would give us 40 million people,
a total the continent couldn’t support. He
prophesied that in less than 30 years Australia
would cease to be a food-exporting nation. That
prophecy at least hasn’t come true.
Griffith Taylor, on first tackling the subject,
put a 20-million limit on our expansion, but as a
result of later studies he raised this to 60 million.
Professor Lodewyckx seems to accept this figure as
a working hypothesis, but he doesn’t think we’re
working towards it fast enough. He holds that if
we are to justify our possession of a whole continent
we must people it at a faster rate than we are
doing. The key to this is to reverse the drift to
the city by a planned development of mixed-
farming on something like the scale that enables
small countries like,Denmark and Holland to feed
big populations and still produce surplus food for
export.
Lodewyckx is neither an economist nor an
agriculturalist, but he produces plenty of support
for his belief that the Australian countryside is
ready for such a development.
In 1950 Colin Clark recommended to a
Queensland royal commission on the pastoral
industry “a type of mixed-farming settlement in
which each farm should have enough cropland to
keep a tractor occupied, a herd of 50-70 cows
mechanically milked and possibly other crops or
stock-breeding as well.” He considered three men
would be required to run such a farm, the ideal
being a family-unit partnership. He suggested an
area of 500-1000 acres, depending on soil and
rainfall, and his objective was a three- or fourfold
increase in Queensland’s rural population.
Sir Stanton Hicks, another advocate of small-
scale farming, points out that America, with vastly
superior natural and mechanical resources, employs
25 per cent, of its people on the land; Australia, 17
per cent. “Food-production will be permanently
and safely increased only when more people choose
to live by working the soil. . . Subsistence-farming,
with assured maintenance of a rural population,
must underlie the production of a food-surplus for
export.” Hicks quotes the opinion of American
and European authorities that fifty acres is the
efficient family-unit for mixed-farming. Lodewyckx
leans towards this figure rather than Clark’s, though
he is thinking in terms of the Eastern Australian
coastal belt, not the Queensland pastoral country.
He answers protests about lack of fertility by citing
what has been done recently in the way of
pepping-up land with trace-elements and in
improving its carrying-capacity by means of sown
pastures.
Mixed-farming can best be developed, thinks
the professor, by attracting the people who best
understand it—European farmers. He recognises
that this involves a change of policy, but considers
it both necessary and advisable. British migrants
are predominantly from the cities, and have no
desire to go on the land.
One obstacle to be overcome here would be
the prejudice against ■ subsistence-farming—a
feeling that it means the building-up of a peasant
class which would be antagonistic to “the Australian
way of life.” This assumes that a small fanner
must necessarily be ignorant, a fallacy that is
disproved by the high standard of education in
northern Europe. The other obstacle is our objec-
tion to the growth of small foreign “pockets”
throughout the country. Against these arguments
is the undeniable fact that rural migrants would
add to primary-production and thus to exports,
while urban New Australians not only reduce the
quantity of food available for export but also
increase the need for imports.
If this country really needs population and
increased exports of primary-products some thought
will have to be given to suggestions such as this
one of Professor Lodewyckx’s. Prejudices will
have to be overcome, but, after all, the present
migration programme had to overcome the
traditional prejudice of the trade-union movement
against any immigration at all. Arthur Calwell,
when asked a couple of years ago how he managed
this, replied that he had adopted the policy of
playing subtly on the fears of decent citizens for
the future of their children. “We must fill our
country or lose it” had been his theme. There are
vital reasons why it should still be the theme of our
immigration policy.


UNITED NATIONS
BRITISH %
LION
YUMPING YEMENI!


PLAIN ENGLISH
Not Liquidated
After weeks of gloom and silence two
or three speeches during the week
brought evidence that Mr. Harold
Macmillan and his Australian colleagues
have no intention of joining in the
liquidation of the British Commonwealth
—it is still British, despite the surrender
which removed the first word in the
usual title at the instance of Mr.
Nehru, and still able to speak up. The
new Government of the U.K. has seen
to it that the first Ministerial visit to the
U.S. is not of the Prime Minister armed
with a white flag but by a Minister to
talk defence on a basis of mutuality.
Mr. Macmillan’s defence of the Suez
incident and appraisement of the status
of the United Kingdom and its relation-
ships was the kind of talk millions of
people had been waiting to hear..
He made it clear that he believed that
though a high price was being paid for
British action against Nasser, the price
might have been much higher if the
Government had not acted with France
in the matter. And he also made it plain
that the U.K. had no intention of becom-
ing a satellite of Washington, though it
was anxious to keep its U.S. relationships
on the basis of mutual respect between
great Powers.
His most important emphasis was,
however, on the fact that a unified
Commonwealth and association with the
European countries with which it was
the U.K.’s destiny to work more and
more closely would group resources as
impressive as those of either the U.S.
or the U.S.S.R. He said it was nonsense
to suggest that Britain had become a
second-class Power and that she was on
her way out:
This is a great country, and don’t be
ashamed to say so. The country which
produced the men that invented the steam-
engine and who first mastered the atom,
the country that built the first atomic
power-station has no reason to quiver
before temporary difficulties.
He made it clear that one of the main-
springs of British policy would be a
drive to develop sources of power, and
this is more than a mere aspiration.
Plans for full electrification of railways,
and for no fewer than 12 atom-stations,
are already under way, and “we lead the
world in the production of atomic energy
for peaceful and industrial purposes, and
we are going to stay in front.”
Meanwhile, at the somnolent meetings
of the U.N. Assembly, Australia, through
Sir Percy Spender, suggested that, on
the withdrawal of Israeli forces from the
Gaza strip and the vantage-points from
which the Egyptians had for years
illegally blockaded the Gulf of Akaba
approach against Israeli shipping bound
for and from Israeli ports, U.N.
emergency forces should occupy the
areas.
He asked what U.N. would do if Israel
refused to withdraw from the Gaza
strip, a decision which could lead to
events which “might easily outrun those
of the past few months.”
U.N. will be compelled to demonstrate
within the next few days whether, as has
seemed to be the case recently, there is
one law for the Egyptians and Arabs and
one for the Israelis, whose fate was
decided in a vote in which Israel stood
alone save for France.
Why Should Motorists
Complain?
Motorists are an ungrateful tribe.
Motor-manufacturers spend millions pro-
ducing new designs and models so that
they can have the latest thing on wheels
and millions more advertising the new
cars so produced. Yet the majority of
motorists stick to their old models! Then
the Governments, State and Federal, and
various councils, road-boards and local
authorities build roads and levy taxes
so that motorists will be able to run their
cars somewhere instead of keeping them
at home all the time and the motorists
complain because the roads are corru-
gated, pot-holed, badly graded, washed-
away, dusty or just plain impassable. At
the same time they complain about the
taxes, which after all are relatively few—
sales-tax on the car and everything apper-
taining to it; registration; driving-
licence ; compulsory insurance ; municipal
or shire-council rates. And, of course,
petrol-tax.
Governments and councils go to ho &nd
of trouble making laws and regulations,
erecting “No Parking” signs, marking
prohibited areas, buying tow-away trucks,
training “brown-bombers,” and conduct-
ing traffic-courts. For all this the
motorists show very little appreciation.
Similarly, the oil companies spend
hundreds of millions searching for oil,
winning oil, transporting oil, refining oil,
inventing additives for oil and getting the
oil to the service-stations. On top of this
they spend more millions advertising their
product in the press, on the radio and
on TV, by promoting sporting-contests,
round-Australia car-trials and singing-
competitions in order to leave the motor-
ist in no doubt as to which of the many
brands of petrol is the best. Yet let there
be the slightest talk of raising the price of
petrol—whether uttered in the rather
brusque manner of the chief of one oil
concern or in the more diplomatic tone
used by the head of another—and the
motorists ungratefully recall past in-
creases and make irrelevant remarks
about profits and dividends.
Finally there is the attitude of motorists
towards the resellers. These people have
at their own expense—with some slight
assistance from the oil companies—
erected palatial service-stations on
every corner and at many points in
between, complete with all mod. cons.,
including comfort-stations, and have even
attended training-schools where they have
been taught correct customer-approach
such as saying “Fill her up?” instead of
the > old-fashioned “How many?”
And when, in slight recompense for all
this, the resellers spring a little surprise
by jacking-up the price another penny
a gallon, the motorists complain mightily!
What they should remember is that they
are merely the last little link in the long
chain from oilwell to exhaust-pipe. Their
sole function is to pay for the petrol—as
long as they can.
Offshore Fishing and Mining
[From “In the ACT”]
No one in Canberra is in the least con-
cerned at the extraordinary delay in the
hearing by the International Court at The
Hague of the Japanese appeal against the
Australian legislation giving us control
over the continental shelf. Preliminary
Japanese action was taken several years
ago, but the case hasn’t yet come to
hearing, and there is no word of early
action, although the court last year
almost cleared its desk of other cases
before it. Japan has honored its under-
taking to observe, pending the court’s
decision, the restrictions imposed by Aus-
tralia on pearling operations in the
Arafura Sea and elsewhere off the Aus-
tralian coast, and thus Canberra feels no
sense of urgency in the matter at all.
Australia, however, isn’t the only
nation interested in the definition of rights
over continental shelfs and territorial
waters. Several nations, including the
United States, are affected by the exploita-
tion of oil-beds at varying distances off-
shore (many wells are far out in the Gulf
of Mexico, for example) and by fishing
rights.
There may be some pressure abroad,
therefore, for an early hearing, apart
from the fact that two new aspects of the
question have just arisen in Australia.
One is that Darwin pearlers now feel
that the Japanese, although restricted, are
taking too much shell from each bed and
that this serious depletion will prevent
breeding and the replenishment of the
pearling - grounds. Another is the
discovery of mineral-sand deposits up to
15 miles off the Queensland coast. The
State Mines. Department finds itself in
deep water over the problem of what
control, if any, it can exercise outside
the customary three-mile limit of terri-
torial waters.
The matter is expected to be taken to
Canberra, where External Affairs and
Attorney - General’s Department can
give it consideration. The Solicitor-
General himself, Professor Ken Bailey,
is abroad at present, and it is probable
that on his return he will have a better
idea of when, if ever, the International
Court is going to deal with the Japanese
claim. A problem will then have to be
faced in the appointment of an Australian
to sit with the court as an ad hoc judge
during the hearing.
But that’s another story.
Australia Day
It is a hard and thankless task, trying to
turn the rugged and casual Aussie into
a traditionalist, but the Australia Day
Council is still trying. And Sir Norman
Martin, its chairman, urges us to over-
come our nonchalance and make it as
great as America’s Independence Day.
Sir Norman, a Country-party man of
Albert Dunstan’s days emancipated into
a wider field, is able, because of his service
overseas as Victorian Agent-General, to
recall that “Australians in London were
so keen to attend the Australia Day
service that tickets were exhausted a
month before.”
But that was in the category of home
thoughts from abroad, and not to be
compared with an anniversary at home
that offers a three-day break for beach
and bush. Nor can this summer holiday-
break be compared with the American
celebration, which calls itself a “Day”
and confines itself to one day.
In spite of all the organisation, there
is nothing in the Australia Day Council’s
aggregation of race-meetings, mannequin-
parades, barbecues, swimming and
yachting carnivals that will remove the
emphasis from holiday and transfer it to
commemoration.
There are even some events that seem
to be faintly in odd taste. Heidelberg,
which has been municipally deeply
embroiled in argument and protest-
meetings over its 60 per cent, to 100 per
cent, increase in rates, plans to “release
1000 pigeons.”
Presumably these are not ratepayers.
There are, indeed, many programmes
for children, though still with the accent
on entertainment and sport. There will
be flag ceremonies here and there, and
inevitably there will be speeches; but
there seems to be no escape from the
fact that efforts to emphasise the national
importance of the day end up in mainly
emphasising its holiday aspects.
Ships and Cap'n Williams
It was reassuring—or was it? —that the
suddenly-announced dispatch of two
Australian National Line freighters to
carry bulk-wheat to India had “nothing
at all” to do with rises in export shipping-
freights and wouldn’t withdraw any
necessary and available shipping from
the Australian coastal trade.
The man who ordered the diversion,
the man who gave the assurance, has a
reputation as a sudden man: Captain
J. P. Williams, who was appointed only
last September as chairman of the new
Australian Coastal Shipping Commission.
It is the sort of prompt, practical,
businesslike decision that might, and can,
in future be expected from him, now
that he has got well into the saddle.
“There’s always a slackness round this
time of the year,” he explains. “Factories
close down and we have ships free.” And
any time the same circumstances arise,
he indicates, he will be looking around
for similar opportunities to keep the
line’s ships moving.
“Our line is a trading concern and
will act as such,” he said. Since then he
has endorsed what his Minister said in a
quite quickly-issued statement: “The first
job of this commission is to look after
the coastal trade.”
Whether Captain Williams, the famous
salvage expert, has his eyes cast still
farther and more profitably afield is for
him to say. But he won’t.
With Lord Baillieu insistently urging
Australian participation in the building
of a great British Commonwealth tanker-
fleet, a man who has shown and is
showing as much enterprise as Captain
Williams would be ideal as a starter in
the oil-running business.
Seven times round the Horn in a wind-
jammer, salvager for the Commonwealth
Government of more than £4O-million-
worth of material from the sea, organiser
of the heroic gold-recovery from the
sunken Niagara, he is captaining now
what could be anew far-ranging
prosperity for Australian Government
shipping.
DIRECT CHALLENGE TO RUSSIA
£By “Ek Dum”]
'T'HE disturbances in the Middle East and
Eastern Europe have resulted in a
threatening change in the positioning of
Soviet Union troops. Before the Polish
and Hungarian outbreaks there were
around 43 Russian divisions, about half
armored, in the satellite countries, apart
from the satellites’ own troops, all of
which, under the Warsaw Pact, had been
put under a Russian commander-in-chief
and staff. Of all the Eastern European
countries behind the Iron Curtain, only
Czechoslovakia was reported to be free
of Red Army formations, and its forces
were pretty tightly controlled by agents.
Poland, apart from its own army of
about 500,000 under command of the
Red Marshal Rokossovsky, now sent,
home, had three divisions ; Bulgaria three,
Hungary three. There was a strong
deployment along the Czechoslovak
border. And there was a striking-force,
not defensive but of the type which Hitler
used for his drive to the Channel in 1940,
armored, fast, bulldozing, of not less than
22 divisions in East Germany. Changes
began immediately after the U.S. can-
cellation of the proposed Aswan Dam
loan to Egypt was announced.
The Polish and East German forces
have, if the information available is
correct —which it seems to be—been left
much as they were. The new Gomulka
Government of Poland, which has been
playing a double game and which has
been experiencing a great deal of trouble
with the Polish electors over the nature of
its free elections, just held, is still
very much a Moscow satellite. The force
along the Czech border has been re-
inforced with fast armor, but it is in the
south that the greatest changes have taken
place.
The estimate of divisions in Hungary
last week was 23, mostly armored striking
and mechanised-infantry divisions, but
including two artillery divisions. Most
of these are deployed along the southern
strategic routes leading to Yugoslavia and
close to the border. In addition, there
are reported to be deployments down the
Black Sea coast in Bulgaria—a spearhead
pointed at the Chataldja. defences across
the Thessalian neck of Turkey.
The positioning and direction and
nature of these forces is disturbing. They
are aggressive in deployment. They have
taken shape within the last six months.
Their foundation was laid in September
with the key changes which were made
fully manifest when railways were seized
and oil and coal stocks commandeered in
Hungary for Red Army purposes and
forward Red troops out on a limb were
drawn back and consolidated while a
hearty propaganda was being carried on
to deceive the outside world that this
was due to a general retirement of Soviet
troops who could now leave the satellite
countries, it was said, to trusted locals.
The locals promptly showed wherever
they had half a chance how much they
loved Communism. At the same time
Russia had been arming Egypt and Syria.
These movements and their significance
seem to have been appreciated by both
the French and the British. The sudden
consolidation of French policy and the
almost miraculous decisions come to
silently by which the various usually
quarrelling parties began to work together
—the Communists, of course, excepted—
was certainly not due wholly to North
African events. Neither was the grabbing
by the French of the North African dele-
gates with their load of alarming informa-
tion while they were in transit for negotia-
tions a mere piece of hysteria. The
French obviously knew that the rebel
operations in Morocco and Algeria were
closely linked with a wider plan being
organised in Africa and the M.E. under
the hand of Nasser but with the brain of
Moscow, to put a clutch round the Middle
East and the Mediterranean. They knew
what became later clear to a lot of other
people that the Syrian-Egyptian plans
for an Arab Federation with the capital
in Cairo was really designed for the for-
mation of a nucleus for a Communist-
dominated Arab empire stretching from
Gibraltar to India.
The British were well aware of what
was happening. Sir Pierson Dixon, the
British Ambassador to the United
Nations, warned the Security Council
when the Suez business was under debate.
His warning late in October that Russian
troops were pouring down to the Hun-
garian border was received with complete
complacence, both by the gabbling dele-
gates of U.N. and by the United States
Government, whose leaders were involved
in an election campaign.
It was the knowledge which they had
of the stirring of the giants around the
Middle East and particularly of the
beginnings of a similar series of move-
ments from the north' into or towards
Syria which moved the British and French
to act so swiftly on Suez after they had
failed to make any impression on U.N.
by their warnings of danger. And
President Eisenhower and the State
Department were much, very much,
annoyed. Events interfered unexpectedly
with America’s quietly maturing plans for
filling the “Power vacuum” in the East
when the Suez Canal was in the unstable
Nasser’s hands.
Mr. Dulles has denied that he interfered
in the canal dispute to give assurances to
Nasser of U.S. support which led him to
stand firm against the Menzies com-
mittee. It would be impossible to dis-
believe a U.S. Secretary of State. But
there is nevertheless a curious corres-
pondence between the timing of Mr.
Dulles’s contacts with Nasser and a
change in the relationships between
Nasser and the Canal Conference’s
negotiators under Mr. Menzies. At a
certain point, and that a point at which
(Continued on next page)


Mr. Dulles had closest contact with
Nasser, more than a sea-change came
over Nasser, and he seemed to switch his
line from conciliation to arrogant
stubbornness.
Whatever the situation and the calmness
with which the U.S. Administration
regarded it when the British-French acted
at the beginning of November, they are
displaying a very different front now.
In November the talk was of the recon-
stitution of American divisions with a
smaller manpower ingredient. This fol-
lowed a similar Russian line which was
very suspicious since it was advertised to
mean a reduction of Russian forces in the
satellite areas, but involved no reduction
in actual formations, suggesting that the
reorganisation was merely due to the
introduction of atomic and guided
weaponry and general modernisation and
increase of firepower proportionately to
manpower.
Late in December President Eisenhower
was expansively suggesting that manufac-
ture of atomic weapons might cease in
the United States.
Now, last week, the Congress Com-
mittees on Foreign Affairs having heard
Mr. Dulles dramatically talking about
imminent dangers in the Middle East,
the necessity for filling the Power-
vacuum and particularly the need for the
United States to have complete control
of the area (the U.N., by which it set so
much store as an instrument to oust the
British and the French, seems to be a
forgotten body in Washington), the
area is now, seemingly, a U.S. responsi-
bility. The U.S. is obviously all out to
take control of the Middle Eastern com-
munication-route between East and West
via the canal and the oil-resources of the
area.
Mr. Dulles’s remark that the appear-
ance of the British in the Middle East is
undesirable at the moment is just rubbish.
Does he know that British troops are still
stationed in Jordan —the 10th Hussars
are down near Akaba—and that other
air- and ground-units remain there
without causing a riot?
But, at any rate, following the
promulgation of the Eisenhower
doctrine, its supposed author has come
down with a defence Budget to end all
Budgets—one to provide $20,000 million
extra, more than double the normal and
a peace-time record, because “events of
the past few months have dramatised the
need for strong collective security.”
It is proposed to spend 63 per cent, of
the whole U.S. Budget to “maintain our
own defences and strengthen the defences
and economies of other countries in the
interests of world security and world
peace.”
All the defence expenditure of $32,000
million, except about S2OOO million for
external aid, is to go into U.S. defence.
And the fact that the U.S. Air Force is
to be cut by five wings and the Army by a
division, and that there is to be a huge
expenditure on nuclear weapons, along
with a proposal to send heavy atomic
forces to the Middle East, shows the
trend:
The new and more powerful weapons
which are being delivered to our armed
forces in increasing quantities and varieties
are much more costly to produce, operate
and maintain than the weapons they are
replacing. Furthermore, we are engaged
in the development of a whole new family
of even more advanced weapons for all the
Services,
including a “cleaner” hydrogen-bomb
and millions upon millions spent upon
turning-over huge sections of the marine
forces to nuclear power, with one super-
carrier, atom-powered, to go on the
stocks.
The announcement came on the same
day that the British Government
announced cuts in defence to save £2OO
million sterling a year and foreshadowed
the whittling-down, perhaps the
abolition, of the long-term national
service which has been so great a burden
to young Englishmen for a whole decade.
How far these reductions are due to well-
advanced plans for reweaponing and
increasing fire-power in relation to man-
power nobody is likely to tell. But the
move has been naturally interpreted as
part of a British surrender to the belief
that it is “done” and must depend on
American might.
The essence of the situation, however,
now is that the United States has, in
effect, openly challenged Russia in the
Middle East. It has done this without
consultation with its allies or without
regard to consequences to any interests
but its own.
And not only has this brought reaction
from Russia, but it brought Chou En-lai
hot-foot to Europe to join with Moscow
in offering an all-Asian Communist
riposte—a sort of Soviet-Peking Eisen-
hower plan, belligerent in scale and tone.
POLITICAL POINTS
Britain’s House of Commons meets
this week with the new P.M- likely to
face a noisy Opposition bubbling-over
with no-confidence motions. In contrast,
peace and quiet will reign in most
Australian Parliaments for weeks and
weeks yet.
* •
In the Suez affair U.N. has sought
all manner of undertakings and promises
from Britain, France and Israel, but all it
has sought from Egypt is permission.
• •
No one can say the Bondi Beach
concession is going through like a Bondi
tram.
• •
Looks as if U.N. is going to need a
lot more troops. One suggestion is that
the team in Egypt shall be disposed along
the whole Israel-Egypt border ; Pakistan
wants another U.N. force “to replace all
Indian and Pakistan forces in Kashmir.”
The Pakistan delegate to U.N., in
proposing this, also asked the Security
Council to set a date for naming some-
one to administer the long-promised
plebiscite.
• •
Fingers are being crossed in anticipa-
tion of the announcement of the
December index-numbers, with expecta-
tions of a drop in the c.-0.-l. figures
because of the big fall in the price of
spuds. Cahill’s fingers are probably so
tightly crossed he’ll never be able to
untangle ’em.
• •
Queenslanders have been assured by
Transport Minister Duggan that the
train-derailments of which some of them
have been complaining are “no cause for
concern.” The department has traced the
facts on “almost every” derailment in the
past twelve months, and Duggan has been
assured by the Railways Commissioner
that the tracks are “generally in fairly
good condition.” The commissioner’s
assurance seems a rather guarded one
and the Minister’s assurance isn’t likely to
reassure the public.
Opposition-leader Nicklin has called
for an independent inquiry by an expert
from the Commonwealth Railways or
one of the State systems. Best way out
of it might be for Duggan and N. S.
Wales Transport Minister Enticknap to
come to a gentlemen’s agreement to swap
experts.
• •
Ben Doig, selected from a big field as
Liberal candidate for Burwood in the
N. S. Wales Assembly, has faced the
selection committee several times. He
was twice given the difficult job of trying
to win Waverley from Labor. This time
it’s doubtful if Labor will even put up a
candidate.
• •
It must have pleased Arthur Calwell,
once labelled a Red-baiter, to see himself
quoted approvingly on the front page of
the Communist “Tribune.” The state-
ment that won him the comradely pat-on-
the-back was his comment that Eden had
“gone the way all warmongers should —
and Mr. Menzies, who aided and abetted
the Anglo-French invasion of Egypt,
should be the next to go.” Even the Doc.
forbore to kick Eden when he fell, but
Calwell seized it as an opportunity to kick
Bob, too.
Still, “Tribune” hasn’t quite forgiven
Arthur for past transgression. Using his
name three times, it twice spelt it with a
“d,” as in Killer.
• •
Uncertainty about future air-com-
munications across Asia has been respon-
sible for the decision to establish a
staging-base for R.A.F. aircraft on Gan,
in the Maidive islands, about 500 miles
south-west of Ceylon. The use of
Britannia aircraft will make possible a
shorter direct route from Britain to Aus-
tralia, and will supplement the Australian
air-base on Cocos. It will also facilitate
any new air-service routed via Africa.
• • .
After increasing the price of beer in
N. S. Wales the U.L.V.A. announced its
intention of asking the Federal Govern-
ment to reduce the excise, adding that if
the request should be granted “publicans
would immediately pass on the reduction
to drinkers.” This solicitude for over-
taxed drinkers is very touching, but there
are other sections of taxpayers which
deserve prior consideration where
reductions are involved. After all, excise
is one tax for which the payer writes his
own assessment.
• •
Yemen, the latest Middle East focus of
interest, is a barbarous desert country
of indefinite boundaries, ruled by virtue
of military strength since 1948, a year
after it was admitted to the United
Nations as an equal in the Assembly of
Britain and the United States. It upholds
the Charter of the U.N. and its democratic
principles according to the principles
of its own leadership, which came
to the Throne after civil war following
the murder of the reigning imam. And
its devout adherence to U.N.’s principle
THE SHAPE OF MODERN TRANSPORT
of human rights is evidenced by the
freedom with which it cuts off the hands
of thieves and buries adulterers to their
necks in the- good old Persian fashion.
• •
Khrushchev has been rejoicing that
the British lion has “become senile, weak
and hoarse, and has now lost his tail in
Egypt.” We heard that sort of talk from
Hitler and Mussolini. Now it comes
from a bear with a sore head.
• •
Foster Dulles is to attend the Seato
Conference in Canberra in March. That
is, if he does not decide that it would be
unpopular with Nasser for him to meet
the British in what the U.S. considers an
Asian Zone.
• •
Gair completed his fifth year as
Premier of Queensland last week. He’s
held the job a few months longer than
Cahill, who fltiishes his fifth year in April.
Both are ahead of Hawke (four years)
and Bolte (two), but a long way behind
Cosgrove, who has been top Taswegian
since 1939, and Playford, boss of S.A.
since 1938. Queensland Premiers haven’t
set any long-term records. Forgan Smith
was ten years in office; Theodore a little
over five. Apart from those two it is
necessary to go back to the State’s first
Premier, Robert Herbert, to find a longer
term than Gair’s. Herbert was appointed
Colonial Secretary by Governor Bowen
on December 10, 1859, the day the State
separated from N. S. Wales, and was
subsequently elected to Parliament and
led the first Ministry for six years.
• •
Hungary’s Mr. Mod sounds like a
con.-man. He’s asking U.N. to repatriate
to Hungary all refugees who have fled
from that stricken country. One of his
demands is that countries harboring
refugees should facilitate the supply of
news to them which “reflects the actual
situation” in Hungary. The simplest way
to do this would be to open the Hungarian
frontier so that Hungarians inside it can
go freely to other lands to tell the
refugees of “the actual situation.”
Instead of this, the Hungarian rulers are
straining every nerve to prevent more
people leaving, even to the extent —at
the weekend —of having frontier guards
cross into Austria to fire on refugees.
• •
A Warsaw paper reports that Russia
has agreed to settle 15,000 Bulgarian
unemployed in the eastern areas of the
Soviet Union. Eastern areas? That’s
Siberia! The unfortunate Bulgars won’t
have to complain of unemployment if
they go there.
• e
A forecast from “official sources” in
New York says that a meeting of Com-
monwealth Prime Ministers is to be called
in late spring. Color is lent to it by
Macmillan’s speech on the unity and
strength of the Commonwealth. But it is
to be hoped that if necessary the dissidents
and r;arks of the Nehru type who have
lately rendered these conferences abortive
will be either asked to co-operate or
weeded out and told to fend for them-
selves.
• •
“In the ACT”: It isn’t surprising to
leam that the quarantine and health
people are concerned at the possibility
of Asiatic diseases or noxious-insect and
weed pests being introduced into Aus-
tralia by aircraft landing on isolated
strips in the Northern Territory. It is
fairly common for light planes to be
diverted from Darwin to Wyndham or
Drysdale River because of storms or un-
favorable winds, and there have been
reports of unauthorised planes also
coming in from Asia on dubious missions
and going to war-time strips in remote
areas. Talks are in progress in Darwin
now about ways of dealing with the
menace. Unwelcome pests or diseases
could be introduced by accident; but
also by design if any nation or person
had a grudge against us.
• •
Every schoolboy remembers the story
of how King John carelessly lost his
Crown jewels in the Wash, in a.d. 1216.
Efforts to find the treasure have been
made over the last 700 years, and now
Dr. Tagg is using an electrical device
like a mine-detector on land reclaimed
from the Wash. Betting in England is
that even if he doesn’t discover a crown,
sceptre, swords and silver cups he’s likely
to come up with a good haul of broken
buttons.
• •
A gap closes:
Those who prophesied schism between Red
Russia and Red China, of which there certainly
was growing ostensible evidence after the
Khrushchev regime came into power, had their
forecasts knocked rotten by the emergence of
the Eisenhower doctrine, which closed the
gap in Communism with a loud bang. Chou
En-lai could not get to Moffcow quickly
enough after the Presidential speech, and within
a week he and his boozy partner had issued
a joint resolute condemnation of the plan, and
a call to Britain, France and Israel to pay
indemnity for damage to Egyptian territory.
They opposed the internationalisation of the
canal, calling for “complete respect for Egypt’s
sovereignty” arid put forward a rival Eisenhower
doctrine of their own. Chou has involved him-
self in the satellite politics of Europe, backing
Russian action in Hungary to the limit.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITWIMBLES INKS"
YX/’ANT to have a bet? I took it and lost.
The Isle of Wight is large enough
for the entire human population of the
world to stand on at the same time —all
feet on the ground! Given that the
average human needs a square foot of
territory to stand upon ; the area of the
Isle of Wight is 145 square miles. This
pans-out at 8,556,868,000 sq. ft. They’d
be almost silly enough to do it, too. —
“Spenton.”
* ♦> ♦>
“Rimutuka”: I hear that Melbourne,
after 6 p.m., has become known as “A
Town like Paralysis.”
$ *l* *i*
“W.P.T.”: An Australian quizmaster
asked a competitor where most of the
world’s whaling was done. “Switzerland,”
said the competitor.
“Born in a tent?"
“Robbie”: My favorite pub in Brisbane
has made a rule, “No drinking in the
lounge unless accompanied by a lady
friend.” My wife doesn’t drink, won’t let
me have a lady friend', and insists that I
don’t “guzzle at the bar, but drink in the
lounge.” I begin to think she’d rather
I didn’t drink at all.
❖ ❖ *l*
“Emptor”: Can any pen-pusher tell
me why it is that a ledger (even a big
leatherbound one) has a pounds-column
exactly a quarter-inch wide? Doesn’t
anybody have sales over £100?
+> *
“Nimmo”: I saw two little boys, aged
about eight, playing in a piazza at
Florence. One of them picked up a stone,
about the size of a peanut, and let fly at
a statue. The other was indignant. I
heard him say: “Non to fare: e cara e
antica.” Literally, “Don’t do that: it is
dear and ancient.”
❖
“Ex-Ped.”: The use of the phrase
“instead of which,” instead of “but,”
quoted by “Miss M.” (B. 2/1/’57), can
involve the user in some nice verbal
tangles. Two from my collection are,
“Your parents gave you a good education,
instead of which you go stealing horses,”
and “Society mothers with marriageable
daughters welcomed him with open arms,
instead of which he entered a monastery.”
Instead of what?
❖ ❖ *
“Dib”: As a connoisseur of second-
hand books I noticed that Sydney’s
secondhand bookshops became bloated
as Christmas approached; presumably
there were plenty who wanted to raise
ready-cash for Christmas-shopping.
Now, early ’57, the bookshops are again
cluttered. Maybe they’re unwanted gifts.
Or is it the need for a spot of cash after
going broke over Christmas?
“8.A.H.”: Can only agree with
“Bettibelle” (B. 26/12/’56) that Some
announcers’ slips are unwittingly caused
by scripters, but add to the list of possible
causes the Saturday-evening outpouring
of sporting-results, when announcers have
to speak nineteen to the dozen to squeeze
everything in. Ripping through the
women’s tennis our man said: “Miss X.
defeated Miss Y. in straight sex.”
“Emtee”: Holidaying at a small sea-
side town, I am leaning on a fence over-
looking the bay, daydreaming, when I
notice a local heading my way in old
clothes and a battered felt with about
two weeks’ growth on his face, and carry-
ing a bag of onions over his shoulder.
Without any formalities, he says, “Well,
what do you think of the place?” I
reply that I think it a pretty good spot.
Hoisting his bag of onions and loping
away again, he simply says in parting,
“Yeah? Well, I’m sick of it!”
“Sackville”: The small girl in the tram
was worrying her mother for a banana,
unsuccessfully, but with obvious hope.
Suddenly Mum turned and snapped with
finality: “No; you can’t have a banana ;
you’ve got a cold as it is.” Struck me
as the most incomprehensible utterance
I’d ever heard from a completely incom-
prehensible sex. At home I retailed it.
“But that makes sense,” my spouse
demurred. “If the child had a cold the
mother naturally wouldn’t want her to
eat anything that might upset her tummy
as well. What’s ridiculous about that?”
❖ * +;♦
“Fragmos”: You may think it’s fiction,
but the way things are going elsewhere it
might very soon become fact. Anyway,
did you hear about the fishermen who
were going to ask their M.P. for legisla-
tion guaranteeing a specified annual
catch? Or about the salesmen who are
making moves to take industrial action
to ensure a regulated volume of sales?
t* ♦> ♦:+
“Caveat” (B, 2/1/’57) sug-
gests that “negro” and “darkie” are falling
into disuse. During the war I met
American colored troops; they did not
regard these words as objectionable but
would take offence at “nigger.” I have
a recording of the most famous American
colored contralto singing “My Old
Kentucky Home.” She sings:
’Tis sun-up, the darkies are gay.
On the other side of the record she sings:
That’s where the old darkie’s heart am
long to go.
“Darlings” in the case mentioned by
“Caveat” may have been a lapsus
linguce.
❖ ♦> •; *i*
“S.M.S.”: A 19-year-old’s summing-up
of his around-about-28-year-old teacher:
“She’s remarkably well preserved.”
*l*
“Zorok”: Six Sydney journalists
refused to load pig-iron at the very same
time as a Melbourne “Herald” journalist
was given a far more exacting task, out
of the usual run of his duties, and did it
uncomplaining and unflinching—though
he did admit in his report that the assign-
ment had given him “20 of the worst
minutes” in his life. He had to walk
through the heart of the city, in the midst
of the lunch-hour shopping crowd, clad
in the kilt.
❖ ❖ *
“G. 8.”: Pittwater-road leads out of
Manly (N.S.W.) for 13£ miles and passes
through municipal-, shire- and town-areas,
its houses numbered consecutively from
end to end, without any division of house-
numbers according to the districts it passes
through. The historic highway begins at
Raglan-street, Manly, passes through
Manly, Warringah Shire, townships such
as Dee Why, Collaroy and Narrabeen,
and ends at the wharf. Church Point.
Along the Pittwater-road from Manly,
“Sovereign” Smith’s stone-built house, a
landmark for many years, is noted at
Brookvale, numbered 563. At Collaroy,
another well-known landmark, Florence
House, Eventide Home of the Salvation
Army, is No. 1039. At Mona Vale is to
be found number 1760. By Church Point,
where the Pittwater-road ends, the house-
numbering exceeds 2200. Is this a
record high figure for street house-
numbering in the Commonwealth? Is
this 13|-mile stretch of consecutive house-
numbering a record for the Common-
wealth?
♦> ♦>
“Kenyas”: We were halfway through a
final rehearsal with the school choir when
the organ began an uninterrupted boom
like a foghorn. All hands to the pump,
we soon found that a pipe had been
neatly punctured with a pen-knife. A
communal collection supplied sufficient
chewing-gum to repair the damage tem-
porarily, and the practice continued.
Later the offender was run to earth and
hauled before the headmaster, something
of a psychologist. “Why on earth did
you do it?” questioned the All-Highest.
Did some uncontrollable urge possess
you?” “No, sir ; I was just trying to make
myself a nuisance.*’
►> ♦> *i*
“P.L.”: Talking of coin-shortages (B.
26/12/’56); in a country town copper
coins were in short supply. Asked the
cafe-proprietor if he had any. “Got a
wheelbarrow full.” At 3-o’clock there was
a clanking outside the door. There, with
an outsize in steel wheelbarrows, stood
Chris. The counting was a spare-time
job for several days.
$ ♦> *z*
“Bass”: In Surrey, one Sunday evening,
I stopped to verify a sign outside a pub:
“Australian Spoken Here.” Sure enough,
Mine Host was from Sydney, complete
with bulldog (for company in the long
intervals of custom), and visiting father
and brother; accent as advertised. I
lingered.
❖ ♦♦♦
“T.A.G.”: Mr. Gair, of Queensland,
will be lucky if he makes up the losses
on his smash-a-day railways from his
increase in stamp-duty on cheques.
Small businessmen (and there are a lot
of them) in this town are deciding to draw
one cheque at the end of the month and
send the message-boy to pay all accounts.
Go to the Electricity Board any day and
it’s necessary to line-up behind a string of
youths paying employers’ accounts. The
Premier may, after all, revolutionise
accounting-systems; instead of gaining
Id., he will very often lose 3d.
♦>
“J.J.A.”: Touching on prices of im-
ported books. All books imported from
Britain cost almost double their home-
price. The difference in exchange
accounts for 20 per cent, of the increased
price, freight a few more per cent,
(although it is almost as cheap to post a
book from London to Melbourne as from
London to Glasgow). It seems distribu-
tors here take the rest —besides the
ordinary trade-profit—to make ends meet.
Few people buy direct like me and save
considerable hard cash.
THE PRIVATES OF THE PANTS
Charged, with others, with not reporting
for National Service parades, a private
McCarney said he refused to wear the kilt. An
Army spokesman said no one was forced to
wear kilts; in fact, when a whole group of new
trainees were asked it they objected to serving
in the N.S.W. Scottish Regiment, twelve men
applied to be transferred, and were transferred.”
Last night, in thoughtless elegance
They jested, quaffed and swore,
The simple privates of the Pants
That reached down to the floor.
Today, beneath the Army’s frown,
They stand in other places,
Soldiers of the Australian crown
And types of many races.
They are not rude, low-born, untaught,
Bewildered or alone,
Yet, with whatever instinct fraught,
Each calls his legs his own;
Aye, tear his body limb from limb,
Bring cord, or axe, or flame,
There’s none can scare the pants off him,
Exposing him to shame.
The Bondi breakers round them seemed
Like dreams, to come and go;
The picture-shows as brightly beamed
As Marilyn Monroe;
The smoke inside the poolroom door
In grey, soft eddyings hung:
Must they, then, watch it rise no more,
Doomed by themselves so young?
Yes; honor calls! With strength like steel
They must refuse to see.
Let Latvian Scotsmen come to heel,
Italians bare the knee,
But they, with pants that will not shrink
Whatever Fate decides,
Go on to Service or to clink
In tong, determined strides.
Vain, mightiest fleets of iron framed.
Vain, those all-shattering guns,
Unless Australia keep'unshamed
The strong knees of her sons.
So let their names through Europe ring,
Those men who did not wilt,
Who stood as firm as Sparta’s King,
But would not wear the kilt.
n.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


'"TRAINS in Tassie may be slow, small,
* dirty, bumpy and late. But at least
railway workers are obliging. As we
pulled to a stop at a country station the
stationmaster trotted up to the driver and
told him he had left a passenger behind at
the last stop; would he please wait until
they brought the passenger over by car?
And, believe it or not, he did. —
“Emtee.”
“B47 to base. .. Proceeding to 356 Grand Canal ... Over ."
“8.A.H.”: The local Commonwealth
Stork moved in a wondrous way in a
Commonwealth city, and two joyful
fathers rushed off to the newspaper-office
to lodge announcements. They appeared
aext day —one headed East; the other,
West.
<s*
“Sydneysider”: Conversation - piece:
“Trouble is, he tries to keep up with the
Joneses —the David Joneses, of course.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Emuhead”: No one, except in mis-
quotation, “Mugga Way” (B. 2/l/’57),
ever wrote of a “monstrous regiment of
women.” John Knox, Calvinist preacher,
failed to endear himself to the Royal
houses of England and Scotland in the
16th century with his furious denuncia-
tion of “this monstrous regimen of
women” —meaning “rule.”
'“E. &O. E.”: Christmas Day saw a
wonderful wharfie example of “goodwill
towards all men” at Devonport
(Tas.). Seven hundred tourists,
many bringing their cars with
them, arrived that day, accom-
modation arranged in many dis-
tant places which they planned
to reach by car. But they
planned without the W-W.F.,
which refused to land the cars
themselves or allow the seamen
on board the Taroona to do so.
These unfortunate travellers
could neither remain on the
ship for another night nor
get beds in the town. One of them went
by train to Launceston, where he had
friends, returning next day to collect his
car. How the rest spent a miserable 24
hours wharfies don’t care.
+*♦
“P.H.”: W.A. Government Railways
in the “S. M. Herald” of January 5
calls for applications for chemists in the
Mechanical Branch, Midland Junction
Laboratory, who after satisfactorily pass-
ing tlje required examinations will be
classed as Assistant Engineers; all appli-
cations to be addressed to “Chief Medical
Engineer.” If it is necessary for the
medicos in this service to be qualified
engineers, no doubt W.A. Railways
psychologists will be classified as just Plain
Locos.
+> ♦♦♦ ❖
“Doric”: Yul Brynner, the star of the
film “The King and I,” has fluttered the
hearts of women audiences —and he hasn’t
a hair on his head! This may be a prelude
to a new male head-fashion —perhaps
those frightful duck’s-tail hair-do’s will
disappear and bodgies emerge with heads
as bald as eggs.
*l* ❖ ❖
“W.P.T.”: There are a number of
street-names in and about Sydney that
include Christian-name and surname (B.
2/1/’57), and many more that include
rank and surname: Henry Lawson-drive.,
Lady Carrington-drive, Lady Game-drive,
Sir John Young-crescent, Sir Joseph
Banks-street, Sir Thomas Mitchell-road,
Captain Piper’s-road, Major Bay-road,
Colonel Braund - crescent, General
Bridge’s-crescent, General Plolmes-drive.
At least three knights have streets named
after them: Sir John Young-crescent, Sir
Joseph Banks-street and Sir Thomas
Mitchell-road, while Royalty is repre-
sented with a Queen Victoria-street and a
King Edward-street. Mosman has a
King Max-street, whoever King Max
might be. And what about General San
Martin-drive, which replaced Coal and
Candle Creek-road? Or have they
decided to forget about it?
A* ❖ A*
“F.S.”: Hugo Unzaga Villegas, the
young Bolivian who threw a stone at the
Mona Lisa because her “lovely face upset
him,” is not the first to be emotionally
disturbed by the lady. Walter Pater wrote
a famous passage about her, myriads of
poets have written sonnets to her, Aldous
Huxley wrote a story, and Freud in a
masterly analysis traced her expression
“As your guest-speaker, can anyone tell me what the devil I
have to talk about ?”
back to an infantile fixation of Leonardo
on his mother. Nothing could be stiffer
or less voluptuous than the Chloe in Mel-
bourne’s Young and Jackson’s, yet it has
had more assaults made upon it than the
Mona Lisa. A young religious fanatic
threw a glass of lemonade at her because
he thought her nudity indecent. A glass
of lemonade! But, all in all, in keeping.
* ❖ ❖
“Bagot”: New Year staff-changes at
a Perth hostelry brought two brand-new
Hebes to one of the bars ; Lena and Neta.
Not many drinking-hours (9-to-9 in Wes-
tralia) passed before the questions were
being tossed back and forth between
schooners: “If Neta is neater than Lena
and Lena is leaner than Neta, then how
can Lena be neater than Neta and Neta
leaner than Lena . . .?”
■* •* ❖
“Pip Tok”: As to the similarity of
Victorian drinking-songs and Sankey’s
hymn-tunes, mentioned by “J.J.A.” (B.
19/12/’56), the smoke.-social classic “For
he’s a jolly good fellow” and its more
bibulous stable-mate “We won’t go home
till morning” have the same tune as the
French nursery-song, “Malbrook s’en
va-t-en guerre,” but the tune is said to
have been that of a hymn sung by
Godefroy de Bouillon and his followers
during the First Crusade. The words of
America’s “Star Spangled Banner” were
written to a 17th-century drinking-song,
“To Anacreon in Heaven” —Anacreon is
said to have been choked, at the age of
85, by a grape-seed in the wine he was
drinking.
*> ❖
“F.A.M.”: Enjoyed an article “In
Defence of the Novel,” by Guthrie
Wilson, of N.Z., now living in Sydney.
Speaking of “historical romance,”
described by Mr. Wilson as “costumed
sex,” I read that this “has an extraordin-
ary selling-power on the U.S. market.”
As an ex-librarian, I would like to assure
Mr. Guthrie that, though the American
output of this class of novel is more
deserving of his definition than either the
English or the Australian, its popularity
is not limited to . the States. I have seen
men who have read and enjoyed excellent
non-fiction positively drooling over the
works of Edison Marshall, Frank Yerby
and the like.
* & *
“Ladimac”: As a student of dramatic
art I used to dream of the wonderful parts
I would be given . . . Lady Macbeth,
Portia, Desdemona, Juliet . . . When I
heard we were to put on “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream” I added Titania to my
list. “Would you like to play a fairy?”
asked the producer. “Oh, yes,” I replied,
visions of Vivien Leigh and Moira
Shearer flitting across my mind. “That’s
good,” I was told. “We’re short of men ;
I want you to play Oberon.”
❖ ❖ <*
“Kelvin”: In the recreation-room of
the establishment in which I toil the
younger set have recently taken to spend-
ing their lunch-hour in a jive-session, and,
looking on, I was struck by the behavior
of several girls who, with more confidence
in the modishness of their underwear
than maiden modesty, displayed them-
selves to waistline as they pirouetted in
their crinoline-shaped frocks. An hour
later I saw one of the same girls, coming
from the canteen with a load of milk-
bottles, caught by a boisterously vagrant
breeze. Despite the handicap of her
burden, she strove valiantly to prevent
the wind from whipping her skirts up
above her knees, but observing that her
plight was attracting a deal of male
interest she abruptly jettisoned the milk-
bottles, and put both hands to the task of
maintaining her modesty.
*!♦
Another bit that “Tim” (b.
26/12/’56) could have mentioned
was that Low, “Tim” and I, while in
Tasmania, had a go at walking to the top
of Mt. Wellington, and that in the bulg-
ing, wild, rampageous, tumbled, jumbled
bush the three of us perspired and fought
our way, if not triumphantly, then
courageously on.
If I remember rightly, Dave appointed
himself leader (David never played
second-fiddle), and succeeded in leading
us round and round in circles, during
which time the cigar-smoking Low added
a little fun to his day by establishing a
chain of bases which he marked for
posterity by signing his name to a declara-
tion as to how he was lasting (date added)
on the clean white bark of saplings.
I wonder if the now world-famous
Dave’s “last messages” are still showing?
He also left his cigar-butts attached to
such trees for any cigar-smoking
explorers who might follow in his foot-
steps. I forget the exact wording of
Dave’s last messages; but I remember
that he wrote them on the trees with as
much care and an eye to good lettering
as when drawing his cartoons and carica-
tures.
He was a better artist than leader,
though, for after leading us wonderingly,
wanderingly and hopelessly about the
tangled slopes he lost himself —and us;
after which he, and his two victims, con-
tinued to walk more circles, while he, ever
industrious, wrote more final notes (with
illustrations) on more and more trees and
signed them with the famous “Low”
signature.
On running out of cigars our intrepid
leader seemed to lose interest in Mt.
Wellington, and suddenly plunged —with
us —into and through an almost impene-
trable mass of thick bush, and we all
landed almost in the very backyard of the
Cascade Brewery, I think we’d hardly
been out of earshot of the Brewery the
whole day long.
No, it wasn’t the smell of Tasmanian
hops that gave the artist his bearings and
landed him and his team back into civili-
sation. No, Mr. Low was a tea-
drunkard, and a tea-shop where they also
sold cigars would have been more to his
liking.
Hal Gye.
V'
“Terence L.”: Low (B. 2/1/’57)
describes Michael Collins as “a pink
laughing boy.” He may have been that,
but I . remember the Irish leader as one
of the most handsome men I ever saw;
finely chiselled of feature, and with a
mass of unruly fair hair that tumbled
across a broad, intellectual forehead. His
likeness in life is well captured in profile
on a plaque above his resting-place in
Dublin’s Glassneven Cemetery. I am a
little puzzled about Low’s caricature of
Collins (B. 9/l/’57). Collins’s hair was in-
clined to fairness, and he didn’t sport (at
least when I saw him) a Chaplinesque
moustache as would appear to be the case
in the Low sketch.
A PHILOLOGICAL WINNER
The present-day craze is
To use words and phrases
Which have specialised applications.
One's thoughts turn to spouses
More often than houses
When mention is made of
“foundations.”
And now that the clamor
For more and more glamor
Is one of our characteristics,
The term that is used most,
Abused most, perused most
In print is this “Vital statistics.”
They made these up yearly
At one time, and merely
To record some dull information:
How hatches, dispatches
And newly made matches
Affected our land’s population.
Guff-merchants decided
The phrase must be guided
To realm of the feminine figger
For clear classifying.
So now it’s applying
To white and brown, brindle and nigger.
Whether shaped like a silo
Or Venus de Milo,.
Or if you’re all mountain and valley;
Whether big frame is bolstered
By being well-upholstered
(Your total a terrible tally) —
Girls, you must heed this dictum
Or you’ll be the victim
Of old fashion —“ measurement” -
thinking
Is anachronistic.
The “vital statistic”
Can never from now on be flouted.
By tape-measure wielded
Three figures are yielded;
Then down on some paper you jot ’em ;
This rule must be noted:
They mustn’t be quoted
Except from the top to the bottom !
Oh! Let compilation
Of world-population
Be subject of weighty logistic;
Much more fascinating
To dwell on the rating
Of Jane Russell's “vital statistic.”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Fly to any capital city by
TZuiu-HuAZvatui, HiaUwa
Pressurised propeller-turbine TAA Viscounts
x *
are the finest, fastest and
most comfortable airliners
serving all Australian capital cities.
RESERVATIONS: TAA BOOKING OFFICES IN ALL STATES
or any authorised Travel Agent.
TAA
WSMSSSm
NPV422
PERSONAL ITEM
Arrived by air from London and now
being wined and dined in Sydney,
Reginald E. Ash, a banker well-known in
Sydney circles, who has been Number
One in the National Bank in London for
the past five years. Prior to that he was
State manager in Sydney. Ash is on a
short visit to Australia on behalf of the
bank, and there will be many old friends
anxious to shake his hand. He is visiting
all the States; he is particularly well-
known in Victoria and Western Aus-
tralia—in the latter he was State
manager for several years.
• •
“Doormat”: Melbourne’s easy-to-get-
on-with Anglican Archbishop, Dr. J. J.
Booth, officially retired on New Year’s
Eve after 14 years in office, but will con-
tinue as administrator of the Diocese until
his successor has been appointed. This
might take some time. The Archbishop
has reached the retiring age of 70. He was
enthroned in Melbourne in 1942 after
the death of Archbishop Head. Ordained
in 1914, he saw service as chaplain in both
World Wars, M.C. first one, C.M.G. in
the second.
• •
“A.R.”: Kurt Herweg, composer of the
“Tintookies” music, is now writing the score
for the Elizabethan Theatre Trust’s forthcoming
musical. Son of a Jewish department-store
proprietor in Munich, he began his musical
training in that city in the early days of War I
(in which he was on the Serbian front) and
continued afterwards under famous conductor
Bruno Walter. In the early ’twenties he was
conducting all over Germany, opera and
musical-comedies (musical-comedy, he says,
because it is repeated over and over again,
is harder on "conductor and musician than
operatic or orchestral music, which seldom is
given many consecutive performances).
Anyone who recalls the magnificent quality of
Emil Jannings’s acting in “The Last Laugh,”
one of the classics of the silent era, owes some-
thing of the sharpness of that experience to
Herweg—it was his idea to adapt Bruch’s
emotive violin concerto for the background-
music. Kurt Weil’s (“Mack the Knife’’) “Three-
penny Opera” came under his hand, too; he
was given the job of cutting “offensive” sections
from the controversial film before its premiere
MUSIC
at Essen. Hitler put an end to his musical and
film career in Germany. He came to Australia
in 1938, from England, a decision he has never
regretted. After conducting the musical, “Belle
of New York,” at the then His Majesty’s
Theatre, Melbourne, he became cinema-
organist at Sydney’s Prince Edward. Joined the
newly-formed Borovansky Ballet first as pianist,
then as conductor, a position he held until the
end of the company’s last season.
Modest about the chances of the new musical
(it hasn’t been given a name yet) becoming an
Australian “Oklahoma” or “Annie Get Your
Gun,” Herweg hopes it will show the rest of the
world that we’re .not lagging as far behind as
some might think. But, he says, these things
don’t develop overnight. Might be a hundred
years before the dozens of folk-music traditions
blend into one, distinctive, Australian tone or
approach. In the meantime Herweg, five years
married to his Sydney wife, is as spry in his
opinions as he is active in his life, a fact which
he attributes to the unsettled nature of his life
to date.
• •
Maryborough (Q.) businessman Cyril
Corser, who died recently, was the only
officer of the 15th Battalion’s C-company
to leave Gallipoli alive. Corser, 2/i.c. to
Captain H. Quinn, was badly wounded,
was sent back to Australia medically
unfit, but soon got an appointment on
transports and rejoined his unit in Egypt.
Promoted to Major in France, and again
badly wounded.
• •
Passed on in New York last week, at
89, Arturo Toscanini.
“R.McC.”: We got in on Toscanini’s
balloted concerts in London in ’39
because it was the first fine Whitsunday
holiday for years and years, but as it
was Beethoven’s Mass it was as about as
interesting as when we saw The Trump
win in Melbourne, not knowing anything
about racing, and not having anything
on The Trump.
A sparrow of a man in an afternoon-
frockcoat that seemed made for an eagle,
he was impressive with the clenched fist
and shaking right arm in fortissimos. On
the one hand, he brought music back with
unparalleled sincerity to what the com-
poser wrote ; on the other, especially with
Beethoven, his stringent beat often made
it sound like an express-train. Sometimes,
as with a relentless blaring of brass in
the first movement of the Beethoven
Violin Concerto, it was magnificent;
other times it was completely heartless.
A brave man who defied Mussolini as
if he were only a casual and inexpert
trombone-player, he was a child for prac-
tical jokes, an unpredictable guest, a
devoted husband and father. And if most
of the world’s musicians today are of one
style, scientists objectively treating each
different composer as he arrives on the
programme, that style bears more the
mark of Toscanini than of any other
musician of his time.
• •
Amos J. Peaslee, distinguished jurist
and Eisenhower’s adviser on disarma-
ment, who was U.S. Ambassador to
Canberra some little time back, set out
10 years ago to assemble two new works
—one, a compilation of all the written
Constitutions of the various nations, the
other a collection of the basic Consti-
tutional documents of the 100 or so
international Governmental organisa-
tions. The first work, in three volumes,
sold-out after it was published in 1950.
A new edition has now been issued, with
the major changes which have been made
since 1950 in the Constitutions of 35 of
the 89 nations (but, of course, not in the
Australian Constitution). The second
work, too, has been published, in two
volumes.
• •
Striding up Hunter-street on his way
to Wynyard station, suntanned and alert,
still unmistakable from fifty yards off in
his hat with the brim turned down all-
round, the Governor-General of Aus-
tralian cricket —Charles G. Macartney.
How Australia could do with a Macartney
in the game today! One of the celebrated
A.I.F. XI that toured England after
World War I, he’d always give it a go—
and it usually meant sparkling attack on
the bowling. The cricket-books tell of his
Test achievements, including his century
before lunch in 1926 at Leeds in the
third Test (after having been dropped off
Tate’s second ball to him); but they omit
one of his most delightful innings. It was
at Chatswood (Sydney) oval —a couple
of hundred yards from where he lives —
in the early ’thirties. He flashed-up 94
in half-an-hour’s fading light, and that
included the time lost by fieldsmen foxing
the ball from the railway-line and various
other parts of the Willoughby munici-
pality outside the ground. 1 hen with a
big hit he knocked the M out of his own
name on the scoreboard. He missed his
century, everyone who saw the match
avers, only because he didn't -get a crack
at the last ball of the day. It probably
came close to being the most exuberant
piece of expert batsmanship ever seen
from the Trumper Pavilion.
Charlie, at last week’s encounter in
Sydney, was intrigued by Low’s Bulletin
drawing (reprinted B. 9/1/ 57) of the
Melbourne Cup jockey on the pedestal
being called down to earth by the
cricketer below, and thought it must have
been published before World War 1.
Are you there, Charlie? Yes, it appeared
in B. 23/11/1911.
• ©
On his way to take up a temporary
post in the Kearney Foundation of Soil
Science, University of California, Dr.
Lloyd Jones, senior research-officer of
C.5.1.R.0., is 34. An authority on the
so-called trace-elements (manganese,
molybdenum, copper and zinc) which
have restored thousands of acres in south-
east Australia, he took his Ph.D. in 1949,
after graduating from the School of
Agriculture, Melbourne University, and
later worked for two years on a Nuffield
Fellowship at the Macaulay Institute,
Aberdeen. He expects to be away about
a year on the present trip, which is being
made under the Fulbright Travel Scheme.
He’ll study, in particular, Hawaiian man-
ganiferous soils, which require dosings of
81b. molybdenum an acre —compared with
the normal 2oz. !
a a
“Stromlo”: When the firefighters go
out on the job in the Canberra region
they are succored regularly by a
Y.M.C.A. truck carrying two lOgal.
insulated urns, one with ice-water and
the other with near-boiling tea. The
truck, manned by Tourist Bureau chief
Bill Dunbar and civil-servant Jack
Harman, recently had a narrow escape
from being trapped when the wind
changed during a bad fire near the town-
ship of Hall. A cheering sequel to that
day —and night—of the truck’s work
occurred a couple of days later when a
grazier took his 20-odd stone upstairs
to the Y.M.C.A. rooms at Civic Centre
to express his thanks. “I got a badly-
needed cuppa in the morning,” he said,
“and another one in the afternoon, when
I was miles away at another part of the
fire. Then, blow me, when we were
putting-out stumps late at night in one
of the paddocks there was the truck again
with its urns full! I just want to say
thanks—and here’s a fiver for the Y.’s
good work.”
• •
“N.A.8.”: Passed on in Sydney, Rex
Hutchison, one of the best-known open-
boat sailing-men in New South Wales.
“Hutch” had competed in sailing-events in
all States; he was one of the State’s
representatives in the Olympic trials in
Melbourne.
• •
Lachie McDonald, who was on The
Bulletin staff for three years before
War 11, mostly in Melbourne, and who
has been tearing from one trouble-spot
to another over the past 12 years for
London “Daily Mail” (saw the collapse
of Nationalist China, was wounded in
Korea), looked-in at 252 George-street
on his way to New Zealand. By now
he’s firmly installed as editor of the “Bay
of Plenty Times.” Air-travel, in
particular, becomes a bit tiring over that
length of time, he said. Be nice to settle
down. A New Zealander, he came to
Australia in 1933, worked first for the
now-defunct Melbourne “Star,” had
three years with the R.A.A.F. in War 11,
and joined the “Daily Mail” from A.A.P.
sub-editor’s chair in London. The “Daily
Mail” made a nice gesture when he left
—a cheque for 500 guineas. Almost as
good as a reference.
Thomas Walter Hardy, a 6ft. 3in. scion
of the wine family (Tintara, etc.), has been
made a vice-president of the Winemakers’
Association of South Australia; he’s 31,
which makes him the youngest vice-
president within local memory. A director
of Thomas Hardy and Sons, Ltd., the
wine-firm founded by his great-grand-
WINE
father 103 years ago on the banks of the
Torrens (the site is now Torrensville, a
suburb three miles from the city of
Adelaide), he is also vice-commodore of
the S.A. Royal Yacht Squadron. His late
father, another Thomas (all the eldest sons
have been so named), was president of
the Winemakers’ Association. His cousin,
Ken Hardy, is managing-director of the
firm and chairman of the Australian Wine
Board.
• •
Albert Edward Hocking’s appoint-
ment as Victorian. State Savings Bank
chairman is the sequel to a turbulent
chapter in the history of the once-
dominant United Country Party: in 1939
friction between the party’s two Alberts —
Hocking, its chairman, and Dunstan, its
Premier —boiled-over in a special Act of
Parliament removing Hocking from his
seat on the bank’s board over which he
now presides. Wholesale, retail, industrial,
real-estate —Hocking’s interests have been
very wide and very profitable. He’s
getting on now, but is defensive on the
question of his age ; no~talk of retiring.
He was a determined lad, starting on ss.
a week. Now he is in charge of £265
million.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 64, L. H. (“Like”) Mcßrien,
for 26 years (1929-55) secretary of the
Victorian Football League. Associated for
more than 40 years with the V.F.L. as player
and administrator, he received the 0.8. E. in
1950 for his services to sport. From 1943 to
1949 he was a member of the Vic. Leg. Council,
and was Minister for Public Works in 1945
in the short-lived Macfarlan Ministry. He
served overseas in World War I.
In Adelaide, at 67, Dr. Kenneth Nugent
Steele, who was in practice in Glenelg for many
years, and was an A.A.M.C. major in World
War I. After retiring a few years ago he con-
tinued as honorary medical-officer of Minda
Children’s Home. He had played in two
Sheffield Shield matches for S.A., and had
also been a North Adelaide footballer.
In Sydney, at 40, Owen Crewes, president of
Eastwood .(Sydney) Chamber of Commerce for
the past three years.
In Brisbane, at 53, T. J. Burge, father of
Australian Test-cricketer Peter Burge.
Executive member of the Q.C.A. for more than
35 years, and a Queensland selector (1944-49).
Queensland representative on the Australian
Board of Cricket Control from the start of the
1953-54 season, he managed the 1955 Aus-
tralian team to the West Indies, of which his
son was a member.
In Perth, at 67, John Thomas Tandy, Old
Digger and company-director, who represented
West Ward on Perth City Council for over 26
years. Prominent Mason and Rotarian.


Camphor Joe
I know of a country road that passes
Near to a grove of maples tall,
And two iron gates half lost in the grasses,
Plus what’s left of a stonework wall.
The coat-of-arms has gone with its splendor.
Who was the owner, few men know!
But —if you’ve got the time to render,
Well, I could tell of Camphor Joe!
The tourist pleads: “Were they fools or squatters
Planted the trees and built this wall?”
While over the paddocks sharp-eyed spotters
See the ruins of a noble hall.
Again I say: though the name’s a mystery,
There was a mansion—long ago!
But —here’s a bit of early history:
One-eyed Toby, and Camphor Joe!
They say: “Was the owner some grave founder,
Pioneer father, local squire?
Perhaps just a reckless blue-blood bounder
Building a dream, or funeral pyre?”
They wonder: “Where are his offspring scattered?
How did his vision tatter so?”
But —speaking of things forlorn and tattered,
Let me tell you of Camphor Joe!
With camphor to sell, and straps and laces
Camphor Joe was a peddling tramp,
For countless years, in as many places,
Hobbling along from camp to camp;
With one-eyed Toby, a part-bred dingo,
No other triends, in weal or woe;
In rags and talking a half-drunk lingo,
That’s how we picture Camphor Joe!
The pence he made would be spent on liquor—
After Toby had eaten well!
And then, with a voice a little thicker,
Joe would chant: “Watcha want? —I sell!”
The sun would set in a blaze of glory;
Sleep would come by the campfire’s glow.
And that is their humble changeless story—
One-eyed Toby, and Camphor Joe!
For even death couldn’t tear asunder,
Break the bonds in a foolish jest . . .
Toby was killed by a bait, and under
Yonder gum he was laid to rest.
They say that Joe lay down there beside him,
Lay till the campfire burned down low,
And there, when the morning came, they spied him,
Cold as the ashes—Camphor Joe!
I know not why, but his fame’s undying!
Others may build a solid wall,
And raise up a mansion, time defying,
Cultivate groves of maples tall;
But time often sees the great ones falling,
Crumbling their pride in the dust below,
And men soon forget them—men recalling
One-eyed Toby and Camphor Joe!
Victoria.
Peter Bladen.


ABORIGINALITIES
C'EAGULLS had got so used to pouncing
right behind the disks that I feared
for their safety when I fitted a set of
harrows behind the plough for the
second working. Only one got caught;
he was pinned flat on his back, wings out-
spread under the harrows, peering up
through the implement with apparent
unconcern, as though upside-down turf-
riding was his daily relaxation. When I
lifted the harrows’ leaf he let me handle
him without any sign of nervousness. He
was unharmed, and when I relaxed my
grip he made no move to get away.
"You turn right at Minga-Mungaree, then straight ahead till you get to
Quondong Hills, then first on your left. You cant miss it .”
Eventually I threw him into the air;
within a minute he had glided back to
earth to begin another joust with disk
and harrow.—“Tabba.”
* * * *
Orio Mo”: When a falling tide held
the coaster Vanapa, in one fathom, on a
sandbank in the Fly River estuary,
skipper Dean sat down to wait-out a few
minutes’ ebb; then waist-deep overside
went two crew-boys with a kedge. For
the novelty of a canter on the sea-floor,
out of sight of land, I followed and over-
took the boys to reach the sand-spit 50yds.
ahead. Minutes later, tide right out and
Vanapa in a dry duck-squat,' I back-
tracked—to find my outward trail over-
laid by that of a crocodile! How far
astern he’d been, how deep the water or
how intent on a taste of white man, are
still good guesses. Dean’s bosun boss-boy
commented: “You flenty lucky, Taubada!
Him ’gator been free fadom long!” To
think 1 how, starry-eyed, I’d traced my
name with my sweetheart’s on the sands
of Torres Straits, with 18ft. of Papuan
croc, pondering the just behind!
* * * *
“Alma”: Sheep, as well as cattle, have
their “baby-sitters.” During drought-
feeding I’ve seen 30 or so
Merino lambs, camped-down in
the “nursery” (usually a patch of
shade at the foot of a tree handy
to the feeding-place), watched
over by one or two standing
ewes, while the mob besieged
the feed-truck. Horses, it seems,
don’t make use of these com-
munal services ; the foals usually
Stick close to their mothers until
they are able to go off in groups
together, but up till weaning-
time a sudden fright will send
them helter-skelter back to
individual maternal protection.
* . * *
“Tos”: An electric fishing-
machine, believed to be the only
one of its kind in the world,
designed and constructed by
A. M. R. Burnet, a biologist with
the fisheries-research laboratory of the
Marine Department in Christchurch
(N.Z.), caught within 10 minutes during
a demonstration near Ashburton
a perch, two eels, and 22
brown trout. The fish, which are tem-
porarily stunned, recover quickly when
removed from the electric-field. A small
petrol-driven motor runs a generator
which supplies the power. This is passed
through a pulse-unit which converts it
into pulsating direct-current that is
matched to the natural frequency of the
tail-movements of the fish, which are
attracted to an electrode put in the water
on the end of a pole. It can stun at a
distance of up to 10ft. The 821 b. machine
has sufficient cable to work 400yds. of
stream.
* * * *
“Kelms”: In my neck of the Westralian
woods just now goldfinches are catching
insects for their nestlings. Goldfinches
are seed-eaters, and I don’t think an adult
bird would even consider insects as an
article of diet. Yet they’re scooping them
up by the score for their young ones, and
the kids are thriving. Later, of course,
these youngsters will live entirely on
seeds, but they, in turn, will feed insects
to their young. Best guess so far is that
the insect-diet supplies a vitamin-need that
seeds wouldn’t.
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: The day combined scorching
heat with sweltering humidity, and we
were demolishing an old and Very hard
brick-foundation with pneumatic jack-
picks. The jack-hammersr—the machines
that hold and motivate the picks—were
so hot on the barrels it was impossible to
hold them for long with bare hands, and
uncomfortable enough even with leather-
gloves. When there is humidity in the
atmosphere, condensation often causes
water to form in bubbles around the
exhaust-outlet through which the used air
escapes from the machine. Mine had
been sweating water for some time when
I noticed that the water had turned to
ice. Examination showed that the other
machines were similarly affected. No
doubt an expert on refrigeration could
explain it, but to four sweating, unscien-
tific blokes it seemed something close to
miraculous.
* * * *
“Dicky”: The only avian trilling I
heard overseas to get within cooee of the
matins of our magpies was that of the
blackbird, whose rich, sweet fluting has
something of the same joyous clarity as
Maggie’s, and it comes as gaily from a
park in the middle of London as from a
blossoming honeysuckle-hedge in the soft
Cornish evenings. Most English people
have a special love for the black
songster, despite the damage he does in
orchards and gardens, for his song is the
harbinger of spring.
* * * *
“Bo”: A photo of Prime Minister
Menzies fishing in Launceston’s Tamar
River showed him wearing a collar-and-
tie and a coat. A collar-and-tie fishing!
Dammit, Bob, this is against all the ethics
of the sport. I wouldn’t be surprised to
hear that the mullet-gut didn’t hum!
* # * jfs
“Quo Vadis”: One of the staff was
lifting the fragrant weed, and the country-
store boss, proud of the firm’s policy of
never sacking a man, diplomatically placed
the ’baccy in a cabinet under lock-and-
key. It still went off. So, next, did an old
trusted employee, on sick leave, with
badly bruised fingers, jammed under a
case, so he said. • He never returned, no
more weed vanished, and the store’s in-
dustrial record remained unblemished. A
rat-trap carries a mighty powerful spring.
* * * *
“F.A.M.”: One of the odd aboriginal
place-names in Queensland is Toogoola-
wah, name of a sleepy little town in the
Brisbane River Valley. David McConnel,
who pioneered this country in the early
1840’s, called his town-house at Bulimba,
Brisbane, Toogoolawah. I understand it
means “a tree bent like a crescent
moon.” When a town grew up near
his property, Cressbrook, it too was
called Toogoolawah.
* * * *
“Miss M.”: The police residences are
in the business section of our large
country town, completely ringed by
extensive suburbs. Shortly before Christ-
mas the constabulary’s fowlyards were
robbed. Then a second raid took place;
and a third. When the detective-sergeant
returned from leave to find his roosts
bare of laying hens and Christmas-dinner
he began some intensive detecting. Soon
he spotted the culprit in flagrante delicto.
He was not able to catch him, though—
nor to discover how a fox found his way
into the middle of the town.
* * * *
“Woorarra”: Alone amongst our
falcons the nankeen-kestrel has come to
terms with man. Birds of this species are
frequently seen round many of Sydney’s
outer-suburbs. They have a particular
partiality for football-fields and golf-
courses, probably because in such places
the grass is kept short, and hence affords
less cover for their prey. It is noticeable
that the pretty little hawk prospects such
areas in a series of lively sweeps, rarely
resorting to the hovering that is such a
feature of its work when over tall grass.
Sometimes the kestrel perches for long
periods on a house-roof from which it
swoops to capture mouse, beetle or grass-
hopper coming within range of its magical
vision. Unlike many of its tribe, this
hawk never molests chickens, and hence *
is only persecuted by the most heedless of
humans.
* * * *
“Little Boz”: I was interested to read
of the Berry tomb (“Phil Anthus,” B.
9/1 / ’57). From my kitchen window I look
out on to Coolangatta Mountain; on
the Shoalhaven side, halfway up the
mountain, stands the Berry family
cemetery, about a dozen graves in the
small iron-fenced square, and from there
one has a lonely view of the river and
surrounding districts where Alexander
Berry was king. The original homestead
was burnt-out a few years ago. “Phil
Anthus” is wrong in stating that Berry
died in 1845. In the year 1858 Rev. John
Dunmore Lang was brought to court on
a charge of criminal libel for having
accused Berry of “wholesale robbery of
public property.” Lang was acquitted.
Berry fought back with libel actions
against the newspapers that had pub-
lished Lang’s accusations. He died on
September 17, 1873, at the age of 92,
having amassed a fortune of more than
£1,250,000.
* * * #
“Ex-Ped.”: None of our so-called
cypress-pines (B. 26/12/’56) belongs to
the same genus as the cypress of southern
Europe, Cupressus sempervirens, which
has two common forms, the tall, slim
“funereal cypress,” with almost vertical
branches, and the wider-spreading variety,
both largely grown in Australia as orna-
mental trees. I do not know how its
tensile strength or breaking-weight com-
pares with those of our various species of
Callitris, but I’d have more confidence in
a spar of any of them, brittle though they
may be, than in one of “ringy gidgee” of
equal weight. The European cypress has
always been a favorite with Mediter-
ranean carpenters, joiners and cabinet-
makers, but another tree, more nearly
related to our cypress-pines, is even more
highly-prized—the Algerian Callitris
quadrivalvis, which produces citron-wood,
leopard-wood or panther-wood, aromatic,
close-grained, “everlasting” and beauti-
fully figured and mottled, especially in its
root-wood. Natives are said to scorch the
trunks of the trees to make them produce
large nobbly roots, still in great demand
for cabinet-work and the interior wood-
work of Coptic churches and Moham-
medan mosques.
* * * *
"pIFTY years ago an Austrian mountain-
lover, Gustav Weindorfer, went to
Tasmania, after having served in the Aus-
trian Consulate in Melbourne, and was
so struck by the grandeur of Cradle
Mountain (over 5000 ft.) that he set out
to persuade the authorities to make the
whole wonderful scenic area between the
Mount and Lake St. Clair a national park.
His life’s ambition was realised in 1931,
when 500 square-miles of mountains,
lakes, forest, waterfalls and snowfields
were so declared.
The Guardian of Cradle Mountain, as
he was called, died a year later at the
home he had built after a picturesque
alpine design ; and a natural-stone monu-
ment marks his grave at Waldheim, on
the edge of King William pine-forest.
Each year since, a niece in Austria has
sent out special flowers, which have been
laid on the grave at a simple ceremony.
This year they failed to arrive, and the
group of hikers and others present wit-
nessed the placing by the reserve-ranger’s
wife of a floral-tribute composed of local
wildflowers, just the sort of thing Wein-
dorfer would have loved. A set of candles
from Austrian relatives did get through
on time, and these were duly lighted at
the ceremony.
NORTH ESK.
OLD GOLDFIELD GRAVES
Their mossed years lean and settle, deep
Mined in the slanting shelter of the hills
—Old canting witnesses, stoop-shouldered,
sleep,
Drowse through the fiery judgment of the
sun,
Time’s careless tools unchiselling
testimony,
Till earth receives again the wintered
stone.
The thin incurious native grasses hide
Worn contours of the landscape of last
search,
Where final earthfall trapped them, side
by side.
They could not know 1 the hills’ magnetic
lode
Northed to this silence in the blackwoods’
shade;
Down golden creeks to sunless shafts they
strode,
Through violent hours ringed in the
campfires' blaze.
Still centred in the vortex could not see
These grey butts of their branched and
burning days . . .
Starred wildflowers trace their sunken
reef,
Quartz-glint the grass with paler gold
—Yearly renewed, earth’s subtle grief
Time’s negligence denies.. . .Their rooted
day
Burns in a candled century of boughs;
Their lowering pines’ lit antlers toss the
sky.
VICTORIA.
JESSIE G. ALDRIDGE.


TIAILWAY comedy on the main line in
N.Q.: Engine, having uncoupled at
siding to take on water, returns to find
its train, a goods, vanished into the night.
Tender-first, engine gives chase. Three
miles ‘down the line finds train, which,
having failed to go up a hill, is rolling
back fast to meet engine. Pursuer now
becomes pursued. Train wins, rams
engine in stern, derails itself. —“Vega.”
* * * *
“V.X.”: After months of transport-
work from Alice Springs to Birdum our
unit found itself in a rubber-plantation
near Kluang. Acres of fairly smooth
trees. Everything strange. One of the
drivers, reporting having backed his truck
into a tree, with some damage to the
tailboard, said to the W. 0.: “Call these
india-rubber trees! Why, they’re as
hard as the ironwoods at the Alice!”
* * * *
“Spin”: A Westralian spearman who
got his fish collected a shock when he
grasped the spear, and a mate who raced
in to stab the catch had the knife knocked
from his hand by the same power. That’s
just an example of what the electric-ray
can do. These fish can develop charges of
over 500 volts, and they’ve been tested to
deliver over 12 amps through an external
resistance of 13 ohms. The charge is used
both for the capture of prey and for
defence ; certain muscles, adapted for the
purpose, generate and accumulate it from
ordinary muscles which normally would
have produced only negligible voltages.
That’s a usual accompaniment to muscular
contraction, but the small charges are
immediately dissipated ; in the electric-
“Call y'self a FISHERMAN! You've broken y'r rod!"
rays, and some other fishes, the muscles
are so arranged that possibly hundreds of
these charges are added together to pro-
duce a shock capable of killing small fish
and deterring big ones. The charge is
controlled by the nervous system and is
delivered on contact with the ray's skin.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: With certain exceptions—
notably the painted-quail—male birds, do
the courting, but circumstances can affect
even this fundamental instinct. When
hens are much in the majority a reversal
of the usual roles may be noted. On a
bird-watching trip into northern N.S.W.
I observed a marked shortage of male
birds amongst rufous-whistlers. As a
result the usually demure hens were trans-
formed into savage hussies that fought
bitterly with female rivals. Though the
solitary cock continued to whistle his
lovely non-stop tunes, I fancied he had
about him an air of bewildered embar-
rassment, such as an unfeathered male
might show in like circumstances.
“Archbell”: Revisiting my old stamp-
ing-ground in South Gippsland, 1 saw,
still flourishing by the roadside, the big
mountain-ash past which I footed on my
way to school 60 years ago. Road-survey
marks cut into it are still plain, but at
the same height on the trunk as when the
forgotten chap put them there some 70
years ago. It looks as if Unk White, who
depicted in his joke-block (B. 2/1 /’57)
the old couple looking at the love-token
of their youth cut into the trunk about
40ft. up, missed the argument in these
pages in which plenty of proof was
adduced that a tree grows from the top,
and that marks on the trunk always stay
at the same height.
* * * *
“Agricola”: There’s a move afoot to
open a road into the' Wallaman Falls,
about 50 miles from Ingham (N.Q.).
Because it takes three days to get there
and back, very few tourists go there, and
so miss a sight unequalled in Australia.
The falls have a sheer drop of 950 ft., the
longest straight drop in our part of the
world. Surrounding the falls are red cliffs
over 1000 ft. high. The Ingham Chamber
of Commerce is asking the State Forestry
Department to build a road into the falls,
not only for tourists but to tap the vast
reserves of cabinet-timbers that grow
there.
* * * *
“Nimrod”: Although brought up in the
bush, Christopher, aged two-and-a-half,
had only known milk out of tins until
on a recent visit to the city he was intro-
duced to the milkman. Now he refuses
the preserved product and demands
“gee-up’s” milk, a neddy having pulled
the milk-cart.
* # * *
“Bass”: My neighbor’s aviary, in
which a pair of budgerigars mingled
happily enough with the canaries, was
visited by a collared sparrowhawk which
struck twice through the half-inch mesh
and orphaned three budgie-nestlings.
One survived, and during the next few
weeks he was seen with his head on one
side listening to the whistling canaries;
when he finally gave tongue it was in a
call not greatly different from that of his
tutors. A few weeks later he’d perfected
that call. Then he was introduced to a
mate from another aviary and, although
they quickly reached an understanding,
to my ear he still seems rather awkward
in his own language ; and he still whistles
like a canary. Meanwhile, outside, the
kookaburras are teaching their youngsters
the species’ distinctive calls —there’s no
doubt instruction is being given—and the
magpies seem to be holding early-morning
schools for the same purpose; which
indicates, I think, that at least some bird-
calls are not fully instinctive.
* * * #
“Sack'’: First pets I remember owning
were a white cockatoo and a breedless
hound maligned with the name of Percy.
My Percy, in his old age, lost in a
stoush with a brown-snake, Cocky and I
dissolved partnership following an un-
provoked assault in which I nearly lost
half a forefinger. That happened close
on 40 years ago. Recently I visited the
chap who, as a boy, had swapped a silver-
grey possum and an airgun for him. My
end of the bargain is only a vague
memory, but Cocky looks no older. He
has enlarged his vocabulary considerably,
but in the middle of a recital he broke
off to whistle and call Percy. I was
amazed. “And they reckon elephants
never forget! ” I exclaimed to his owner.
“Wonder if he remembers me. Scratch
Cocky.” Yes, he remembered. I’m
“ You'll spoil your dinner!"
tapping this out on a typewriter with my
right forefinger held up like the crest
of the so-and-so that bit it.
* * * *
“Kelms”: How many birds cover their
eggs when they leave the nest? I exclude
the mallee-hen, because hers is not a
covering of the eggs to conceal them but
a burying for incubation; probably a
primitive reptilian instinct which the bird
hasn’t outgrown. I’m thinking, rather, of
birds like the dabchick, which invariably
pulls a few pieces of water-weed or rush
over the eggs as it leaves the nest. The
only other bird X know of which always
covers its eggs when it leaves the nest is
the Australian dotterel. It nests in a
slight depression, sometimes in almost
bare ground, and although the eggs are
liberally spotted they don’t always match
the ground perfectly. As the bird leaves
the nest it flicks dirt over the eggs, some-
times almost covering them., In both of
these cases the covering gives a pretty
efficient camouflage, and both birds often
leave the nest for long periods during
warm weather, leaving incubation to the
sun.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The old bottleneck
chimney used to be as much a part of
the Australian rural scene as post-and-
rail fences. Standing outside the room,
they saved space inside, and they needed
fewer bricks than the square-breasted
type. The common practice of building
’em with very little foundation gave them
an almost universal tendency to lean out-
wards with passing years, and it was
remarkable how far one of them could
lean out of plumb without collapsing. I
was once asked .to give an opinion as to
whether a cocky’s chimney was
dangerous. I found it leaned away from
the house a full 3in., but thought it had
found a firm footing and wouldn’t move
any more. As a test I stuck two strips
of gummed-paper over the gap, so that
any movement would break the paper.
What the cocky said to his missus when he
returned from town reached me by bush-
grapevine : “The idiot! How much does
he think them bits of paper will hold?”
* * * *
“Miss M.”: The jackeroos, on their
way to bring sheep home from agistment,
were taking a short cut. It took them
through 30 miles of uninhabited bush—
rough red hills, mulga, mallee, spinifex,
termite-mounds —and no water. The sun
blazed down. Shod hoofs and a million
buzzing flies made small surface cracks
in the bottomless silence. They rode,
mile after mile, in single file along a
narrow bridle-track. Then the quiet, hard-
bitten one came abreast of his mate and
drooled: “Nice quiet place to set a hen.”
* * * *
“E.J.Q.”: On oil-search duties in
Papua I was allocated a native boy, about
15 years of age, weighing about 901 b. ;
his name, Auwa. In seven years with
the Australian Navy I had survived
seasoned old gunnery-instructors, but it
was left to Auwa to break my heart. I
decided to train this chap to the peak of
domestic proficiency: in four months /
had been trained to accept watered kero-
sene, late meals, indifferent washing and
a high blood-pressure. No effort on my
part was spared. I learned half his
language—he compromised and learned
half mine, and, as I might have expected,
it was the same half. It was like being
able to say “No” in two'languages and
“Yes” in none. On a trip up the Strick-
land River some 80 miles with another
European and 36 natives we had been
gone two days and had finished eating
our fresh food. Thinking to start on
some 3001 b. of tinned food I made a
nonchalant request for the tin-opener.
Auwa had forgotten it. We were lucky
enough to shoot a brace of pigeons
which before Auwa we had considered a
delicacy. I don’t know whether he was
offended by previous remarks about over-
cooking eggs or his hand was a
little too large for efficient cleaning, but
the pigeons were served fully equipped
with unhatched eggs and the equipment
necessary to produce same. He was an
inoffensive lad, although I often sus-
pected he was a member of an advance-
party of Mau Maus pledged to the per-
petual banishment of the white man from
Papua.
* * * *
“Ben Hur”: The old-age-pensioner’s
wife was hospitalised with a broken hip,
and her husband gave a graphic account
of the accident: “Did her block. Slipped
and fell on the woodbox when she threw
a cup of sour milk at me. Good china in
those cups. Hit the wall, but it never
broke!”
* * * *
“Uramao”: I was always chary about
accepting Bill’s invitation for a spin into
the country; our part is hilly, and it
was no secret that Bill’s brakes were just
able to hold the “bid bus” (as he
affectionately calls it) to the road going
down. When I did go, climbing back
home uphill revealed his car’s chief
peculiarity. When he arrived at the foot,
Bill turned the car round, put her into
reverse and backed up the hill; other-
wise, he. declared, he might remain at
the foot till towed to the top.
* # * *
■pROM the 24ft.-square alluvial claim,
A aptly named the Jeweller’s Shop, in
the deep lead at Canadian Gully, Ballarat
(Vic.), about £60,000 was won. Not bad
going; but it’s the incredibly slapdash
way the claim was worked that makes it
a legend in mining.
The ground was opener-up by a
blacksmith and his seven partners, all
ignorant of mining. To gain the rich ore
quickly, they washed all they could with-
out opening a regular drive. Within a
month they got £13,000; then, as the
claim seemed to them dangerous and
useless, they sold full rights and title for
£lOO.
The £lOO was the combined wealth of
10 men, and by the end of their first
day’s operation these had £2OO each.
Working hard for seven days they
netted £BOOO. They then leased the claim
for a week, and went on a spree.
The lessees were experienced miners.
The first four days of their term they
spent opening-up two drives. Before their
remaining three days were up they had
£15,000.
From this organised drive, the 10
owners took another £lO,OOO before
selling the claim to a storekeeper for £lOO.
The storekeeper put in a gang on part-
share basis, and in a fortnight every man
had taken out at least £5OO, without
counting the storekeeper’s share.
Then, one Saturday night, an old hand
undermined the props. Before Monday
the whole working had caved-in. As soon
as the storekeeper's claim had elapsed this
gent, pegged the show himself, employed
another man to help. him, and dug
straight down to the old working. From
his first puddling-tub he cleared nearly
£2OOO, and by the time he had systematic-
ally worked the mine clean he had
collected another £6OOO-worth.
F. M.
PLAY
A light breeze plays with the bright sea,
and ripples
The surface into wavelets the sun stipples
With flecks of white fire, and the making
tide
Plays with the boat, gurgles along its side,
Slaps at the bows and chuckles ’neath
the chine,
While fingerlings play with my listless
line;
Along the beach a small child plays with
sand,
Patting it into pies with pudgy hand:
l play with rhymes, passing the time
away
Watching a smile about your mouth at
play :
There is no serious business here today.
N.S.W.
HUI TE RANGIORA.


More for your money in style .. .
More for your money
in low cost motoring* too!
The graceful flair of long, low lines is only
part of the Holden story. And first price
is only part of Holden thriftiness.
For Holden combines the three things
that make for really low-cost family
motoring. Outstanding petrol eco-
nomy that goes hand in hand with six
cylinder performance and six passenger
comfort. Low operating costs that
result from amazing durability, ease of
maintenance and ready availability of low
cost parts. High resale value that
protects your investment and means big
savings when the time
comes for you to buy
a new car.
Holden pays dividends
in other ways, too. In
pride of ownership. In
luxurious comfort with
new front suspension
and longer wheelbase, of 105'. In easy,
accurate control with the new re-circulat-
ing ball bearing steering. In fact, Holden
gives you more of all the things that
matter most because it is the one car
designed and built for Australia. More
and more people are buying Holden—
latest registration figures prove that in
1956. Holden outsold the next most
popular car model by more than 4 to 1.
Contact your Holden Dealer let a
beautiful new Holden show you that in
performance, comfort and easy handling
as well as in economy,
you get more for your
money in Australia’s
Own Car. Priced from
£9lO plus tax, Holden
is available on conve-
nient GMAC Hire
Purchase if you wish.
HOLDEN
REGD.
Australia's Own Car
LIST PRICE FROM £9lO PLUS TAX
There are two ' Air Chief ” Car Radios specially designed for the new Holden
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
Y 220
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established, 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager-
Branches in all States. Agencies in all Country Centres.
Business, Robbery, Etc
Sprightly Sharemarket
QUITE spectacular rises have
been a feature of the Aus-
tralian sharemarkets over the
past fortnight, more particularly
during the latest week. Among
the indicator-stocks, Australian
Consolidated Industries has
been outstanding with a lift
from 565. at the New Year open-
ing to 60s. 6d. at the close of
business last Friday. 8.H.P.,
with a new issue to open at the
beginning of next week, was
more restrained, the firming
amounting to little more than
Is. a share. 1.C.1. was static at
48s. —there is a large parcel of
scrip on the market.
The stronger tone of the
market, though not universal,
was fairly well spread, and
extended to the N.S.W. breweries
in a smaller measure, notwith-
standing the incidence of land-
tax reintroduced last year, and
with assessments now to hand.
(The new higher charges for beer
are expected to offset the burden
of this land-tax, provided the
drinking public can absorb the
new charge and last year’s
higher excise as well as the
beer.)
Bradford Cotton Mills, which
was pointed out in October on
these pages when available at
385., touched 435., before steady-
ing at 425. 6d. Reichhold
Chemicals continued strong,
Henry Jones maintained it new
higher level and C.S.R. went to
£43 ss.
Australian Woollen Mills,
still available at 325. 6d. and
with an outstanding record in
the woollen textile industry,
continued to look attractive for
present yield and future pros-
pects. Optical Industries, another
recent choice by this page last
year, has gone to 135., after being
available for a considerable time
at 11s.
Masonite 10s. fully-paids have
moved up to 245. 6d. This may be
high enough for the present in
view of the growing competition
from Burnie board and Associ-
ated Pulp’s spread of interests
to Queensland. „ Associated
Pulp’s ords., incidentally, were
stronger in the market buoyancy,
touching 355. 6d. at one stage.
This co. is sufficiently confident
of its market for paper in
Australia to be charging interest
on accounts immediately they
become overdue.
The sudden buoyancy in Aus-
tralian sharemarkets so soon
after city retailers had reported
a slower Christmas season took
a number of observers by
surprise. There have been
several “bull” factors, of course
—higher wool prices, better
trade-balance, improved bank-
ing liquidity and prospects of
a drop in the basic wage at the
February adjustment. Also
there has been the incalculable
effect of the international situa-
tion, which at first was inclined
to subdue the sharemarket. Now
it is possibly, a stimulus.
In any case, in view of the
setback to retail trade before
Christmas and the slowing-down
in manufacturing industry
generally in the second half of
1956, it can be reckoned that
the upward movement in share-
prices so soon in 1957 has been
the result either of improving
liquidity in the banking system
or hopes of better things to
come later in the year.
There is little evidence that
industry as a whole is making
any more money right now than
it was two months ago.
A.C.I.
TNVESTORS went for Aus-
-*■ tralian Consolidated
Industries scrip in a big way
during last week’s buying wave.
The price rose to 625. 9d, in
Melbourne and 61s. 3d. in
Sydney before settling back to
60s. 6d.
As was pointed out here on
24/10/’56, when the shares
could be got for 555., “it is hard
to pass by A.C.I. when making
out a portfolio of shares for
holding.” It was then mentioned
also that there hasn’t been an
important bonus-issue since
1938, when the name was
changed from Australian Glass.
(The 1950 bonus-issue was only
one-for-25.)
The co. has robust earning-
power, well-written-down assets
and wide ramifications. But
what, in particular, provoked the
leap from 565. a share since the
reopening of ’Change in 1957
isn’t clear. Unit trusts have an
unpredictable effect on share
prices; they may have been an
influence. And there has been
more complacency among sellers
recently. They haven’t been so
easy to coax into the market. On
the present 12| p.c. div. the
return from A.C.I. at 60s. 6d. is
a little more than 4 p.c.
Drive-in Bank
COMMENTING on the
accounts of the E., S. and
A. Bank on January 6, 1927,
The Bulletin said: “There was
a time when this bank seemed
more likely to grow into an
archbishop than a go-getter. It
leaned to the ecclesiastical in its
architecture, and in the dim
religious light of its banking-
chambers you never felt sure
when you dipped into a rack
whether you were going to draw
out a deposit-slip or an ‘order-
of-service.’ ”
In the E., S. and A.’s Mel-
bourne premises (Queen-
street) the ecclesiastical touch is
"Could I have this elbow soled or heeled or whatever
you call it?"
still striking; but the past
30 years have seen great changes
in the bank’s appearance, includ-
ing the formation, in 1955, of
Esanda, Ltd., a hire-purchase
offshoot.
And this week Burwood
(Sydney) will see the first drive-
in branch of the E., S. and A. —
just hand your deposit or your
cheque out of the window of
your car to the teller, and
complete the transaction from
there. The reason for this new
kind of service is to help over-
come the parking problem now
so apparent in most parts of the
Sydney area. Drive-in banks are
already in operation in the
U.S.A.
Electrical Difficulties
ONE of the problems of the
electrical trade —now a huge
business —in Australia today is
to find men of top managerial
ability, several old hands having
passed on or retired. This at a
time when other problems are
rather pressing, too.
Reichhold Chemical
SPECTACULAR doings have
followed the public place-
ment of a parcel of shares in
Reichhold Chemical Industries
(Aust), Ltd., a little- less than
two years ago. Former share-
holders in the taken-over Euston
Chemical Industries have shared
in the benefits.
The co. is engaged principally
in the manufacture of synthetic
resins for the paint industry.
A 15 p.c. div. was paid for
1955-56 (out of earnings equal
to 35.6 p.c. on average ord.
capital), compared with 11* p.c.
in the preceding term. Then a
one-for-two par issue was made
in November last, as well as a
one-for-two bonus-issue at the
same time. These issues had the
effect of doubling capital.
It was hoped to pay 11 p.c.
on the doubled capital, and, ex
rights, the 10s. shares sold at
21s. 6d., after reaching 375. cum
rights.
An interim distribution is not
due for payment until April.
But, following the opening of the
Stock Exchange, this year,
Reichhold shares have shot up
to 28s. in Melbourne and Sydney.
The market is speculating on
some benefit or other additional
to an 11 p.c. dividend.
N.Z. Forest Products
-\TEW ZEALAND FOREST
PRODUCTS, LTD., is going
on with its plan to pay a 10 p.c.
dividend to ordinary share-
holders not in cash but in 5| p.c.
cumulative pref. shares. The
existing 5 p.c. prefs. will be
raised to p.c., and the div.
made cumulative.
The distribution of pref. shares
as a dividend seems certain to
result in a lot of scraggy parcels
of scrip kicking round.
The co. feels that it has to
press on with expansion of its
productive capacity, and should
crop 600-million super.-feet of
logs a year, against the present
300-million super.-feet. This
implies duplication of plant,
manpower and capital-
expenditure, with the hope added
of an adequate market.
The programme calls for all
the “cash money” the co. can
retain out of earnings, with the
addition of some mortgage
finance.
It has been to the advantage of
the co. to get on with its expan-
sion programme as quickly as
possible in view of current tax-
concessions available.
In Australia, without any ia*-
concessions, B.H.P. has thought
fit to restrict dividends in order
to pay for huge plant-expansion.
Other companies in Australia are
following the same line.
The particular trouble in the
case of N.Z. Forest Products is
that distributions from the
forests, over a period of 30 years,
have been limited to what has
been paid on the prefs.
Paid capital of N.Z.F.P. is
£6,195,064 in 5,204,281 ords. of
£1 each and 990,783 prefs., also
of £1 each. A 10 p.c. div. on
the ords. paid in pref. shares,
would mean an addition of
about £520,000 to the pref.
total.
Shareholders will be asked to
approve the plan on March 22.
Linoleum Holdings, Ltd.
T AST sale of the scrip of
•*-' Linoleum Holdings, Ltd.,
Sydney, was recorded at 275.
Buyers have lately been offering
265., sellers 28s. The shares are
only occasionally dealt in, and
last term the div. was dropped
from 9.6 p.c. to 1\ p.c. because of
the setback in the floor-covering
business and financial stringency;
but to those who don’t mind
waiting for their benefits the co.
(Continued on next page)


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
m
.
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George. Street
SYDNEY
n
THIS
DUPLICATOR
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
literature
details and
PRICES ON
application
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
mn
lAfoi
CSSH
/
'
&
0
4*
1
s¥?
BUDGETING
... an A.N.Z. Cheque Account
much more convenient
Let responsibility rest gently upon your
daughter’s shoulders. Encourage her to save
her money, to budget well, to pay her
accounts by cheque.
By using her regular Bank statement she sees
the cumulative effect of small transactions and
is provided with a sound basis and incentive
for long-term budgeting.
Using an A.N.Z. cheque account has helped
many girls to develop confidence and a
business-like attitude towards financial matters
in general.
Why not solve that gift problem by starting
an A-N.Z. cheque account for your daughtec
pr for any other member of your family?
A-N-Z
W
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITfD
Over Brunches and Agencies of Australia and New
Zealand Bank Limited throughout Australia and New
Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, and in London•
Agents throughout the World.
'ANZ. 94.2484*
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
Would you like good
whisky better?
• I
*y* 9°
BEIXS
«>o% scotch wmis*'*!
®«STIUEO AND
‘.IHICOTLAHO
tlanp
D, STILLERS «»™ SCO
*STA*LISHfO
MOOUCT & i&Lt***jpfi
*** COHTEMTS- I WNt
If whisky is really good,
made in Scotland—can one
ask for anything more? We
think you can—that it
should bear the name
‘Bell’s’. We are independent
distillers. Independent to
go on making the finest
whisky our long experience
can produce. Buy a bottle
of Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
Taste it critically and see if
it is not Scotch Whisky at
its spirited best.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur BelldsSons Ltd.,Distiller*,
Perth, Scotland. Established IS2S
is a first-class investment from
the financial point of view, even
if not (at present) from the
market angle. It owns 21.3 p.c.
of the shares in Michael Nairn
and Co. (Aust.), Ltd., linoleum-
manufacturer, which is largely
controlled by the big Michael
Nairn Co. in Scotland. That
means expert and canny manage-
ment, with divs. kept down
until the strength of the operat-
ing co. is abundant. Capital of
Linoleum Holdings is £106,666
in £1 ords., and its holding in
the Nairn co. is just equal to its
own capital. Which makes every-
thing tidy for calculations.
MAGYAR MUSINGS
Sidelights on a Revolution
[By Herbert Holman, London]
THE two honored guests at
-*• our Christmas festivities in
London looked not the least bit
like revolutionaries. Indeed,
one feels guilty at concealing
their real names lest a sus-
picion of cloak-and-dagger
adventure should be implied.
But since they have left rela-
tives behind, Janos and Marika
will do.
Janos is a 23-year-old artisan
and Marika, his wife of
a twelvemonth, a childlike 20.
Three weeks earlier they were
fugitives, trudging for twelve
hours through the mud, avoid-
ing Russian soldiers and dodg-
ing snipers’ bullets —and this
after a frantic railway-journey
the entire length of 'Hungary.
Conversation was difficult,
almost impossible, for Janos’s
German was weird and erratic
(picked up, no doubt, in his
childhood from the German
army of occupation), and
Magyar is a strange, irrecon-
cilable language. Yet their shy-
ness quickly passing, they were
soon chattering happily, taking
a lively interest in the house-
hold and its festive trappings
and displaying a perky sense of
humor.
With the aid of snapshots, a
map and a teasingly incomplete
phrase-sheet issued by' the
W.V.S.,' they told of their back-
ground, of their families and
of the flight. They bore no signs
of extreme —even of moderate
—nationalism, referred often to
the “Russkis” but with cool
fatalism rather than simmering
hatred, and, while always
respectful and polite, were any-
thing but subdued. With some-
thing of the laconic under-
statement that is familiar
enough nearer home, Janos
presented us with all that
remained of a cherished length
of red-white-and-green Hun-
garian ribbon and barely
acknowledged its being given
a place of honor.
We wondered why they had
fled. Was Janos, former tank-
driver in the Hungarian army,
a hunted man? Had he been
involved in the rebellion? Or
was his long and difficult trek
mere adventure?
It was after they had returned
to their hostel that we tumbled
upon the solution. The town
they came from is an industrial
one near the Russian frontier,
and it was here that the threats
of deportation were strongest.
And we remembered hearing,
more than once, the word
“Siberia,” followed by ironic,
but very hearty, laughter.
How much we missed by fail-
ing to understand Magyar!
* * *
It was this first-hand asso-
ciation with two typical emigres
that brought home the salient
fact of this revolution—that it
is essentially a working-class
revolution.
This is the grand paradox of
the age. For two reasons. The
oppressive power in this instance
is not an absolute and kindless
monarchy, like the Bourbons or
Romanoffs, but a working-class
dictatorship. (The second para-
dox is less important: simply
that the traditional pre-1945
Hungarians, the upper-classes
and the peasants, took little
part in the rising.)
It is, perhaps, too early to
draw any firm conclusions but
this much at least is clear:
(1) Communist rule has col-
lapsed in Hungary;
(2) Other weapons besides
firearms can be wrested
from, and turned against,
an oppressor ;
(3) Abstractions such as free-
dom of expression and
political liberty have
tremendous momentum ;
(4) Doctrine competes in
vain with religious and
family ideals ; and
(5) The Russians completely
misjudged the people’s
power of resistance.
Elaboration of these five
points is immensely revealing.
For, despite the increased
efficacy of armed might and
world communications, the
revolution is essentially classical,
following closely the pattern of
1789 and 1848. “Like all clas-
sical revolutions, it aimed at
the substitution of a liberal
regime for an absolute one, and
like all classical revolutions it
was preceded by demands for
peaceful, reforms. There were
contributory factors, such as
demands for economic better-
ment and national independence
.... (It) was not instigated
from abroad. Western influence
was no stronger than that
exerted by English liberal
thought on the French Revolu-
tion.” (Chatham House Review,
January, 1957.)
* * *
The first seeds were sown by
the Hungarian Writers’ Union
(formerly exclusively Com-
munist, but since infiltrated by
an elite of nonconformist
intellectuals who propounded
liberal and libertarian views).
First to react were the “Petofi
Circle,” a group of Communist
undergraduates which took its
name from a Hungarian poet
and patriot who died in 1849.
So far, the reactions were
comparatively mild. The sug-
gested reforms were contained
within the scope of the new
policy of the 20th Party Con-
gress, and, in essence, amounted
to theoretical Socialism as
expounded by Lenin. Indeed,
both the writers and the students
emphatically repudiated counter-
revolution. It was only when
the industrial workers joined in
that the landslide began and
the demonstration became a
revolt, spreading with astonish-
ing unity and spontaneity all
over the country.
Two incidents appear to have
incensed the workers into active
revolt. One was the pro-Soviet
defensive broadcast of party-
secretary Gero, and the other
the calling-out of the hated
political police, who then fired
upon the demonstrators. Sub-
sequent Army reinforcements, as
in France in 1789, refused to
attack their own countrymen
and either joined them or
handed over their weapons.
As the giant statue of Stalin
tottered ignominiously to the
ground, so did the invincibility
of the mailed fist —the very
horror that has terrorised sub-
ject nations for a full twenty
years. This takes us back to
the first of the five points. In
other words, what can unarmed
people do against tanks,
machine-gun nests and secret
police?
The Hungarian workers have
given the answer. Even a
momentary relaxation of the
tension is plainly a dangerous
concession to a brave and
cohesive people. Moreover,
Communistic dogma as a
crusade has failed abjectly, not
only to indoctrinate the young
but also against the power of
the family and the Church.
A further important realisa-
tion is that the oppressive
Power’s own weapons—even its
own doctrine —have contributed
to the relapse. The non-
Communist writers, knowing
well the technique of Com-
munist infiltration, used the
same methods to oust the rigid
party-men. After the initial
violence the workers, now
formed into local councils
(soviets), used the general strike
as an effective weapon of passive
resistance. And their amazingly
quick and thorough reorganisa-
tion was borrowed from Bolshe-
vik practice but directed against
Communism.
Finally, tyrannical and puni-
tive counter-measures failed to
quell the revolt. Instead, both
the murderous tanks and the
ruthless threats of deportation
only aggravated the resistance.
The Hungarian nation has
paid a heavy price for demands
which, , fundamentally, were
modest and reasonable, even
within a Communist frame-
work. They wanted neutralism
and freedom, within limits. They
wanted to be left to themselves,
and they certainly opposed a
return to pre-1945 Hungary as
vehemently as they opposed
Stalinism.
Some 35,000 have perished,
and a rising 150,000 (more than
one in every hundred) have fled
the country. The nation lies
bleeding, economically as well
as physically. And its geographi-
cal position does not promise
well for the future, any more
than it has done in the past.
While the West can draw hope
and satisfaction from the gallant
David-Goliath-like occasion the
Hungarians themselves may be
forgiven a measure of unavoid-
able disillusionment. Although
they fought for themselves and
not ostensibly for the liberation
of the world, they feel they have
been let down. The Eden
Government’s Egyptian adven-
ture, which immediately pre-
ceded the Russian re-entry, was
not, in their opinion, a happy
coincidence. And they could
not fail to hope for something
more than expressions of
sympathy from the United
Nations. They looked, too, for
a more dynamic lead from the
United States as potential
liberator of the free world.
So, if the revolution has
exposed the vulnerability of an
armed colossus it has also, in
the view of the freedom-
fighters, exposed the impotence
of the democratic world.


The Man on the Land...
needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who will conserve his
Estate for those whom, under his Wiii, he desires to benefit.
mmsfoWiM
ft
ar
'/aV ;
■s‘ T*'
V
\S*
r:
g*£*Xk
;:
* "*».. "'S *V «”VV 'S . n
'”V'"lVo'"
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY has for over sixty-five
years successfully managed country estates. The Company’s
extensive organisation and wide experience ensures that the interests
of its clients will receive every safeguard -and attention.
Ensure for your
Estate the benefit of
, this experience and
obtain for your
beneficiaries the pro-
tection of capital
and assets exceeding
£1,000,000.
Write for a free explanatory booklet.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
G. B. Kater (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
(Vice-Chairman)
?. Bond
F. B. Fleming
J. R. Faviell
C. H. Locke
Manager: TV. L. Shaw
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary:
P. H. Andrews
Chief Trust Officer t
M. A. Foulcher
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT.118.18
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Pope Industries, Ltd.
TRACED with increased manufacturing
A costs, higher co.-tax, a strongly com-
petitive market and the expenses con-
nected with its entry into the domestic
refrigerator field, Pope Industries, Ltd.,
with the aid of a record turnover,
returned a net profit last term (to June
30) only 5.4 p.c. below that of the
previous year.
Developing from a partnership formed
32 years ago, Pope Industries was
incorporated in 1945 to acquire the
share-capital of Pope Products, Ltd.
Contributing to South Australia’s growing
manufacturing strength, the co. caters for
an Australia-wide market as well as a
small export trade. Originally engaged
in the manufacture of sprinklers, irriga-
tion-equipment, hand tools, etc., the co.’s
chief products are now electric-motors,
refrigerators, washing-machines and lawn-
mowers.
A revaluation of the subsidiary invest-
ment preceded last term’s one-for-one
bonus-issue, which added £340,000 to
paid capital, and a subsequent one-for-
two cash offering will have raised another
£340,000 when fully-paid in 1957. The
div.-rate on the 180,000 £1 prefs. was
lifted from 5 p.c. to 6 p.c. towards the
end of the term as a prelude to the issue
of 220,000 7 p.c. £1 prefs. redeemable
at 235. on, or after, June 30, 1966. The
redeemable prefs. were offered in June,
’56, when alteration to bond-rates and
competition for capital had unsettled
interest-rates (and the return from exist-
ing prefs.), with the result that the under-
writers were left with something like
two-thirds of the issue on their hands.
Paid capital will reach £1,420,000 next
term when the new ords. are fully-paid.
The Pope refrigerator was introduced
during the year, and the co. extended its
range of electric motors to include sizes
up to 100 h.p. Sales of both these
products were largely responsible for an
improvement in turnover (unstated), but
strong competition in the appliance field
prevented higher cost being passed-on,
and net earnings fell by £11,569 to
£201,907, after providing, £184,000 for
taxation and £95,464 for depreciation.
The previous term’s provisions were not
disclosed:
Parent and Subsidiary.
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref-r Ord. —serves. serves.
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ jg
1952.. 60,102 9000 8 p.c. = 19,200 31,902 244,863
Tax overprovided, £247 .. .. 245,110
Intangibles written off, £23,371 .. 221,739
Unexplained additions, £41,530 . . 263,269
1953.. 86,744 9000 10 p.c. = 30,667 47,077 310,346
1954.. 888 9000 15 „ „ 51,000 137,888 448,234
Assets revalued, £249,500 .. . . 697,734
From sundry provisions, £145,213 .. 842,947
Unexplained addition, £3 .. .. 842,950
1955.. 9000 15 p.c. = 51,000 153,476 996,426
Profit sale assets, etc., £12,723 .. 1,009,149
Assets revalued, £340,000 .. ..1,349,149
Added intangibles, £339,919 ..1,009,230
Reserves capitalised, £340,000 .. 669,230
1956.. 201.907 9000 12Jp.c.=59,500 133,407 802,637
The ord. div. was dropped from 15 p.c.
to 12£ p.c. (6f p.c. tax-free), although the
earning-rate on average capital was a
healthy 40.5 p.c. The high earning-rate
compares with 60, 55.5, 22.8, and 21.2
p.c. in the four preceding years, and with
divs. averaging only 12 p.c. over the same
period it can be seen that a large share of
the profits has been retained to finance
the development of the co. With a paid
capital of £1,420,000, 6 p.c. and 7 p.c.
pref. divs. and a p.c. ord. div. would
call for £153,700, or £48,207 less than last
term’s effort.
Towards the close of the term Pope
acquired Beaufort Engineering Pty., of
Perth (W.A.), and is now employing that
co.’s facilities in the manufacture of
refrigerator sealed-units. The group’s
fixed assets (revalued in 1955) have con-
tinued to increase, extensions to buildings,
new plant and the West Australian pur-
chase bringing the net addition last term
to £381,944. However, there seems to
have been some accumulation of stocks,
shown at £1,543,415 (cost or under), an
increase of £635,923 over the year:—-
Consolidated Balance-sheet,
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1966.
£lBo,ooo £lBO,OOO £246,200
_ ord - • • ■ • 340,000 340,000 737,804 s
Reserves ~ .. 448,234 996,426 802,637
Debentures, etc. 307,900 320,700 603,360
Notes ~ . 200,000 199,000 349,000
Overdraft .. 67,482 401,835
Creditors . . 356,361 337,242 473,581
Tax provision . . 248,885 215,933 185,071
Final divs. . . 38,500 30,000 38,500
£2,119,880 £2,686,783 £3,836,988
Land, buildings 331,278 777,985 902,034
Leasehold . . 2,451 47,822 62,180
Plant .. .. 334,064 469,964 713,001
Shares, etc. . . 271,717 80,791 44,438
Stock .. 640,232 907,492 1,543,415
Debtors .. . . 408,131 400,517 512,295
Cash, etc. .. 132,007 2,712 59,625*
£2,119,880 £2,686,783 £3,836,988
* Includes cash received for shares subsequently
allotted.
Although paid capital has grown from
£210,000 in 1945 and a substantial share
of earnings retained, outside finance has
been necessary to enable the rapid growth
seen in the last five or six years. Last
term the co. stretched ifs overdraft by
£334,353, raised £150,000 with 7 p.c.
notes, borrowed £250,000 from life-
assurance cos. and increased its indebted-
ness to creditors by £136,339, leaving
shareholders’ interests representing ofily
46.5 p.c. of total assets. The pref. and
ord. issues completed in the current term
have since improved the ratio of share-
holders’ funds to outside money.
The appliance market continues to be
highly competitive and well-supplied, but
manufacturers, on the whole, have limited
output to prevent oversupply. On the
other hand the demand for electric motors,
particularly of the more powerful variety,
has shown some improvement and import-
restrictions are expected to help Aus-
tralian manufacturers gain a permanently
increased share of the local market.
Net tangible asset backing, including
the new ord. and pref. cash issues, is
£5 1 Is. Id. prefs. and 9s. ords. The
latter at 6s. 9d. would return 9.2 p.c.
from a 12} p.c. div., or 7.4 p.c. if the
10 p.c. rate, suggested when the bonus-
issue was made, is adopted. The 6 p.c.
prefs. bring 19s. and the 7 p.c. redeemable
prefs. 19s. 6d.
Butler Air Transport, Ltd.
A PITY that, when Butler Air Trans-
port scrip was listed on the Sydney
’Change in 1952, the investing public
wasn’t told of Australian National Air-
ways’ large indirect holding in this
energetic N.S.W. airline.
B.A.T. developed from a partnership
formed in 1934, and, with its subsidiary,
Queensland Airlines Pty., has concen-
trated on providing air-services between
Sydney or Brisbane and a large number
of country centres in N.S.W. and Queens-
land. More recently the co. has entered
the inter-State field, extending its flights
to Melbourne and Adelaide. B.A.T. and
its subsidiary operate a fleet of seven
D.G. 3 and two Viscount (turbo-prop.)
aircraft.
In 1955 it was disclosed that A.N.A.,
through subsidiary and associated cos.,
controlled over 50 p.c. of the issued
capital and a little less than half the
voting-power. The A.N.A. representatives
on the board were opposed to the intro-
duction of some inter-State flights (partly
in competition with A.N.A.), and
suggested that the co. would receive
greater benefit from improving and
extending its intra-State services.
With the D.C.3 aircraft near the end of
their economic life, a startlingly large
share-issue was proposed by
the co. to finance replacement, raising
issued capital to almost £2,000,000, com-
pared with a total of £200,000 last June.
This issue was also opposed by the
A.N.A. group. Five new Fokker turbo-
prop. aircraft have been ordered, the first
to be delivered in 1959.
With a relatively small capital, B.A.T.
operated successfully in its first three
years as a public co., the div.-rate rising
from 10 p.c. to 12£ p.c. in 1954. Last
term (to June 30) exceptional weather
conditions closed or isolated many air-
ports in both N.S.W. and Queensland, and
an estimated £BO,OOO of revenue was lost
to the co.
The consolidated accounts show an
operating profit, before tax, of only £5389,
compared with £81,616 in the previous
term. Insurance claims on a wrecked
aircraft provided a £30,000 surplus, and,
including this amount, net earnings,
after providing £12,112 for taxation
(down £13,226) and £65,460 (up £20,634)
for depreciation, fell by £33,793 to
£28,635:
Parent and Subsidiary.
To Be- Re-
June, Profit.* * Dividend serves. serves.t
£ £ £ £
Subsidy and rebates, £34,706 .. 112,265
1953.. 44.301 10 p.c.-e= 12,903 31,338 143,603
Increase in intangibles, £2650 .. 140,953
Surplus sale assets, £30,188 .. 171,141
1954.. 69.452 12$ p.c. = 1>,930 51,522 222,663
Reduction intangibles, £2650 225,313
hangar, £14,417 .. 239,730
Surplus sale assets, £403 .. ~ 240,133
1955.. 62,428 12$ p.c. = 22,600 39,928 280,061
Increase in intangibles, £18,617 .. 261,444
Loss sale bonds, £10,474 .. .. 250,970
Surplus sale assets, £2lO .. .. 251,180
f Insurance surplus, damaged air-
-1956) craft' (£30,000)
l 28,635 10 p.c. = 20,000 8,635 259,815
* After deducting minority interest,
t After deducting intangibles.
The lower earnings don’t indicate the full
position, however, for the sale of Com-
monwealth bonds resulted in a £10,474
loss, while an amount of £18,617 (adver-
tising expenses, etc., in connection with
new air-routes and aircraft) was added
to intangibles. After providing for the
ord. div. (reduced from 12£ p.c. to 10
p.c.), reserves, less intangibles, fell by
£20,246 over the term. Earnings on the
rather debatable £28,635 basis equalled
14.3 p.c. of capital, following 31.7 p.c.
and 48.4 p.c. in the two preceding years.
The first of the co.’s two Viscounts was
delivered during the year, and the book-
value of fixed-assets, largely aircraft and
spares (at cost less depreciation), was
more than doubled, increasing by
£338,318:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
„ , 1954. 1955. 1956.
Capital £150,000 £200,000 £202,485
Reserves .. .. 222,663 280,061 259,815
Outside interest .. 8,415 8,528 6,819
Overdraft .. .. _ 95,201
Creditors* .. .. 174,289 194,543 239,203
Tax provision .. .. 69,656 24,047 12,380
Pinal div 10,850 15,000 10,000
£685,873 £722,179 £825,903
Fixed assets .. .. 243,232 223,628 561,946
Deposits, etc 7,550 18,484 9,322
Stock 30,577 40,191 61,452
Debtors 133,845 120,655 118,562
Cash, bonds, etc. .. 220,669 319,221 74.621
_ £635,873 £722,179 £825,903
* Including provisions for tax and overhauls.
Holdings of cash, bonds, etc., were
reduced by £244,600, and the funds so
provided were augmented by a £95,201
overdraft and a £44,660 increase in
creditors, etc. These movements left
current including provision for
overhauls, £102,149 greater than current
assets.
Replacement of a portion of the fleet
cannot be postponed for more than a few
years if the co. is to operate on a profit-
earning basis, and it would appear reason-
able to expect that new capital will pro-
vide some of the funds necessary.
According to the managing-director
(Mr. C. A. Butler) a “loss of about
£lO,OOO a year” from the D.C.3 services is
probable in the “coming years,” but the
popular and economical Viscount ser-
vices are expected to provide an over-all
profit.
Agreement has now been reached
between the Butler and A.N.A. interests
on the future administration and control
ot 8.A.T., and reconstruction of the
board has involved the resignations of
Mr. Butler as chairman, and one director
from each of the previously opposed
tactions. The appointment of a new
independent chairman is expected
shortly. One of the first tasks of the new
board will be a review of the financial
position and the proposed capital-issue.
At the end of last term there were net
tangible assets of 465. 3d. for each £1 of
paid capital, the f.-p. £1 ords., which
fetched 325. 6d, in December, 1956, last
selling at 21s. 6d. ex rights. “Rights” to
the new issue have sold up to 7d.
Kelly and Lewis, Ltd. (Vic.)
UNEXPECTED difficulties caught
southern engineers Kelly and Lewis,
Ltd., in the second half of the 1956 term
and turned the year’s trading result into
the only loss made by the co. since it was
put on to a public basis in 1939.
According to the directors, the trouble
came from (1) the “very sudden”
cessation of orders of a general nature at
the main works, and, later, substantially
reduced demand in the heavy engineering
section, which continued until well into
the current term; (2) cancellation and
deferment of outstanding orders; (3)
abnormal weather in the eastern half of
Australia, which fell hardest on sales of
electric motors, pumps and tractors; (4)
the loss of business with its overseas
principals because of import- and credit-
restrictions ; and (5) heavy losses on
initial production in the new pump
factory.
So, notwithstanding the wide spread of
activities, the co. experienced a recession
in all its manufacturing fields at the same
time. After making reduced provisions
of £36,621 (down £2509) for depreciation
and £ll6O (down £57,798) for taxation, it
recorded a loss for the year of £2144,
compared with a profit of £117,643 in
1955:
Kelly and Lewis and Subsidiaries.
t — Dividends
Ist 2nd Re
■June, Profit. Prefs. Prefs. Ords. Amount, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1952.. 66,961 8 5 8 50,040 348,373
To staff fund, £2500 345,873
Sundry additions, £3077 .. .. 348,950
Surplus sale assets, £1902 .. .. 360,852
Amortisation, £3492 .. . . .. 347,360
Written off investments, £21,250 .. 326,110
Work-in-progress written down, £51,979 274,131
1953. .102,724 8 5 8 50,040 326,815
To staff fund, £5OOO 321,815
Sundry addition, £2705 .. .. 324,520
Profit sale assets, £8467 .. ~ 332,987
Amortisation, £3493 329,494
Written off investment's, £43,717 .. 285,777
1954. 8 5 10 59,580 332,770
To staff fund, £5OOO 327,770
Less reserve adjustments, £8156 .. 319,614
Share premiums, £lO,OOO .. .. 329,614
1955. .117,643 8 6 12J 80,436 366,821
To staff fund, £5OOO 361,821
Plm reserve adjustments, £1209 .. 363,030
Reserve capitalised, £11,500 .. .. 351,530
/ Dividends , To Re-
Loss. Prefs. Ords. Amount, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1956.. 2,144 3* 5 33,725 315,661
Chairman’s retiring allowance, £6OOO 309,661
* Six months only.
Recently the position has shown some
improvement. Long-term orders worth
about £300,000 have been secured, and
other big contracts are pending. And,
thanks to higher wool prices and a return
to normal seasonal conditions on the land,
sales of tractors, pumps, motors and
pasture-improvement machinery are
picking up, too. Negotiations are reported
to be well in hand for the distribution
of the co.’s pumps through an American
agent and for the production of a new
range of pumps under licence to a well-
known English co.
However, in order to ease the strain
thrown on to its finances last year the
co. decided to withhold, until later this
term, the final dividend on the pref.
capital and to make no final distribution
to ord. shareholders, who got a 5 p.c.
interim div. last March. In 1955 an ord.


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Anvi.
Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
n
Thanks to
NEO-
BAKRERE
No Pads—
No Springs
The NBO - BAKRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
■with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARKER® DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3e), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jackson*
o'suixivan
% mm
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New Tor*
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
{CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS l l PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINBS
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANB
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Matters of Classifiers,
Water Eilters, Steam Valves,
etc.
❖
new business for 1956
£152.600,000
»V. »Y> ,Y«
w 7v vv
Australia's oldest and greatest life insurance office.
A.M.P. is a purely mutual office. There are no share-
holders.
With the exception of £1,900,000, the whole of this
amount was written in Australia and New Zealand.
Every member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds
exceeding £345,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the
greatest benefit of the members.
m
Principal Board:
Cecil H. Hoskins, Chairman
W. A. Mackay, Deputy Chairman
S. G. Rowe
The Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C,
G. Gordon Russell, C. G. Crane
Vincent C. Fairfax
General Manager: M. C. Buttfield
Manager for New South Wales:
F. E. Stahl
Australian Mutual Provident society
❖ Head Office: 87 Pitt St., SYDNEY
div. of 124- p.c., was paid. The
average distribution since 1946
had been 8.7 p.c.
During the year holders of the
£46,000 6-8 p.c: participating
prefs. agreed to exchange their
scrip for a like amount of fixed
6 p.c. prefs. As compensation for
the loss of voting and participat-
ing-rights they got a further
£11,500 in ordinaries, which the
co. charged against share-
premium reserve.
Despite the smaller turnover,
book-debts at the end of the
year stood £30,036 higher at
£751,066, another sign of the
general financial tightness
throughout the industry. An
increase in loans on mortgage,
etc. (up £136,724), took care
of the co.’s own capital expendi-
ture: —
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 1956.
Pref £210,000 £210,000
Ord 537,000 548,500
Reserves .. .. 361,821 309,661
Mortgage .. 92,000 178,724
Overdrafts .. 287,748 305,328
Creditors . . .. 426,920 483,829
Tax provision .. 76,158 32,114
Final divs. .. 40,322
£2,031,969 £2,068,156
Freeholds .. .. 357,493 347,659
Plant . . .. 493,396 571,553
Investments .. 13,000 3,000
Stocks, etc. .. 803,516 751,066
Debtors . . .. 359,498 389,534
Cash, etc 5,066 5,344
£2,031,969 £2,068,156
When the books closed the out-
side debt (mortgages, overdrafts
and trade creditors) amounted
to 18s. Id. for every £ of funds
belonging to shareholders.
A year ago the co.’s f.-p. £1
ords. brought about 255. on Mel-
bourne ’Change. They touched
12s. 6d. in December, and could
be had last week for 16s. 3d.,
to return 6.1 p.c. on the basis
of a 5 p.c. div. Last sale of the
6 p.c. prefs. was at 13s. 9d.,
yielding 8.7 p.c. Net tangibles
of £5 Is. 9d. support the prefs.,
31s. 3d. the ords.
Associated Rural Industries
dealt harshly with
some companies in the
eastern States last term. One to
feel the severe effects of the
weather on the rural economy
was N.S.W.-registered Associ-
ated Rural Industries, Ltd.
The co.’s chief interests lie in
the Murray Valley and Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Area, and
include rice-milling, mixed farm-
ing, a winery, the manufacture
of starch, and radio-broadcast-
ing. It also operates a carrying-
business, and, in the M I A., has,
along with agencies for cars and
trucks, the sole agency for
International Harvester farm-
machinery. A hire-purchase off-
shoot helps sales along in this
direction. Parsons Bros., taken
over in November, 1953, manu-
factures and distributes groceries
in Victoria, N.S.W., Queensland
and W.A. Towards the end of
last term new factories for this
subsidiary were completed at
Melbourne and Fremantle, and,
this year, a start is to be made
on new premises for the Sydney
branch. Finance for the project
will be raised from the sale of
existing buildings in the city and
suburbs.
Overall results from the co.’s
rice-milling activities in 1956
were again disappointing, despite
a record crop. In other sections
of the business stock sales, shear-
ing and harvesting 6f other
crops were held up by the heavy
rains which also meant poor
business for the co.’s garages and
farm-machinery agencies.
Apart from the weather,
though, the co. still had the
problem of a shortage of
working-capital on its hands,
which helped to bring down
profit to the lowest point since
it kicked-off in July, 1950. After
eliminating the interest of out-
side shareholders and making
lighter provisions for depreci-
ation (£36,186, down £4684) and
taxation (£lO,llO, down £1614)
profit was written at £14,925,
£46,824 below the 1955 figure
and, after deducting the pref.
divs., equal to only 1.4 p.c. on
the co.’s £613,441 of ordinary
capital as against 10.8 p.c. the
previous term, and 17.2, 21.9,
18.2 and 18.1 p.c. back to
1951:
Parent and Subsidiary.
Re-
Jne.,Prft.* , Dividends serves.f
£ Pref. Ord. £ £
’53..71,808 6 p.c. 7ip.c. =28,500 147,570
Prelim, exes, w/off, £5762.. 141,808
Capital profits. £168,288 .. 300,096
Tax overprovided, £4lB .. 300,514
Unexpla’d addition, £1191.. 301,705
’64..78,974 6 p.c. 8 p.c. ;=39,842 340,837
Capital dividend, £86,462 .. 427,289
Intangibles w/off, £17,895.. 409,394
Loss on shares, etc., £8612 400,782
Unexpla’d reduction, £72,053 328,729
’55..61,749 6 p.c. 9 p.c. =46,221 338,257
Taxed profit res. w/back, £292 338,549
Loss sale assets, etc., £5085.. 333,464
To bad-debts prov’n, £2OOO. . 331,464
Net unexpl’d addition, £7161 338,625
’56..14.925 6 p.c. Nil = 6,519 347,031
* After eliminating outside shareholders’
interests.
f Subject to intangibles, £429,541 at
30/6/’56.
Ordinary shareholders who put
up a further £124,191 capital at
par in March, 1955, and who
had an extra 1 p.c. tacked on
to the distribution (making 9
p.c.) that year were passed over.
To reduce its overdraft the co.
plans to sell further of its
properties and raise fixed mort-
gages on the new buildings. Last
year, from the sale of various
assets, it managed to clip £48,770
off the amount due to the
bank:—
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 1956.
Pref £lOO,OOO £117,300
Ord 596,682 613,441
Reserves .. .. 338,257 347,031
Outside interests.. 216,290 189,410
Mortgages, etc. .. • 84,896 71,103
Overdraft .. . . 749,576 700,806
provision } 560 - 604 « 03 - 491
Final divs. .. 27,340 7,369
£2,673,645 £2,649,951
Land, buildings .. 448,014 610,173
Plant, machinery 221,722 261,993
Investments .. 59,338 58,948
Stock . . .. 808,760 810,669
Debtors .. .. 651,523 473,487
Cash .. . . 54,747 18,666
Intangibles .. 429,541 416,015
£2,673,645 £2,649,951
Expenditure on new buildings
and plant (up £202,430), however,
made for a tighter liquid posi-
tion. Oq June 30 the surplus of
current assets over liabilities was
£199,880 smaller at £407,171.
At present the ss. ords. stand
in the market at 2s. 9d. Net
tangible asset cover is 4s. sd. the
ords., £5 12s. lOd. the prefs.
Minster, Ltd.
AT the annual meeting of
Minster, Ltd., following the
three-for-four bonus-issue, the
chairman wouldn’t say “yes” and
he wouldn’t say “no” as to
whether he thought the co. would
be able to maintain 15 p.c. on
the enlarged capital. In the
event the 15 p.c. has been
maintained (the interim is
payable March 27); and, with
the duplicated plant now in full
operation, it should have been
an easy matter. The co.’s chief
subsidiary, Westminster Carpets
Pty., Ltd., turns out rubber-
backed carpet that is used in the
trim of Holdens, Morrises and
other motor-vehicles, and for
which there is also a considerable
domestic demand.
Golden Plateau, N.L. (Q.)
AT a time when the majority
of company reports devote
at least a few lines (if not a lot
more) to the struggle against
“ever-increasing costs,” the
directors of Queensland’s 24-
year-old Golden Plateau, N.L.,
are in the happy position of being
able to claim a reduction in
unit costs for the third successive
year. The cost per ton of ore
treated has fallen from 945. in
1953 to 78s.- 3d. for the year to
June 30, ’56. Last term’s share
of the reduction was 7s. 3d., and,
with a higher throughput and the
maintenance of the previous
term’s improved grades, net earn-
ings rose by 13.1 p.c.:
Ore Gold, Silver, Div.
Crushed, (Fine Fine Loss. £
Tons. Oz. Oz. £ (6d.)
’51..22,894 4,329 4,465 6,008 Nil
Profit. (6d.),
’62..20,486 9,274 11,014 64,911 21,000
_ (1/3)
’63..23,181 11,384 12,122 79,472 62,575
(2/-)
’54..25,859 13,292 9,659 84,967 84.200
(2/3)
’55..28,016 14,872 9,207 108,697 94,725
(2/3)
’56..30,170 15,776 12,935 122,807 94,725
The £122,807 (up £14,210) profit
was claimed after providing £587
(up £555) for taxation, £3OB for
long-service leave and £3909 (up
£425) for depreciation. Invest-
ments returned an extra £842 at
£2381.
For the last half of the term,
earnings were subject to a
Queensland Government royalty
charge of £1265. The royalty
payable by Queensland gold-
producers is calculated on a
sliding-scale, earnings between
£2OOO and £250,000 being subject
to a 2 p.c. charge.
Last term’s mill-feed averaged
11.5dwt., as against 11.6dwt. in
the preceding term and s.odwt.
in 1950, the higher quantity (up
2154 tons) of ore treated con-
tributing to the lower cost per
ton.
Proved ore-reserves increased
slightly, and at 82,900 tons (up
600 tons) of B.7dwt. ore at June
30 last provided a little under
three years’ work for the mill.
Current assets (including
stores, £32,265) and investments
(£66,031 in bonds and debenture
stock) total £178,396, exceeding
liabilities by £159,576.
Of the 842,000 3s. 4d. shares
issued, 630,000 are paid to 2s. 6d.
and the balance fully-paid, the
market valuing the mine at over
£BOO,OOO. At 19s. 6d. there
would be a return of 11.5 p.c.
from a distribution of 2s. 3d. per
share.
Ravensthorpe Copper
HP H E treatment - plant of
Ravensthorpe Copper Mines,
N.L., at Ravensthorpe (W.A.) is
expected to be in operation by
next March. Dump material
from the old Elverdton copper-
mine is expected to provide six
months’ work for the mill, work-
ing at full (5000 tons per month)
capacity. As this material is
already on the surface, a “sub-
stantial” margin of profit is
anticipated.
. Future prospects are largely
dependent on the movement in
world copper prices, and the co.,
basing its estimates on a recover-
able grade of 3 p.c. copper, con-
siders a price of £3OO a ton
necessary for profitable produc-
tion. Current Australian buying
price is around £345 a ton.
Japanese businessmen are
investigating the possibility of
buying the concentrates, shipped
from Esperance.
No estimate has been given
for proved ore reserves, the
diamond - drilling programme
“indicating possible reserves in
excess of 1,500,000 tons.”
Formed as Western Uranium
Mines, N.L., in 1954, Ravens-
thorpe Copper Mines, N.L.,
adopted its present title last term
when a search for uranium in
W.A. was abandoned in favor
of working the low-grade copper
ore at Ravensthorpe.
Norseman Gold Mines and
Uranium Mines received 400,000
f.-p. 10s. shares as consideration
for mining rights in the Dundas
and Ravensthorpe areas.
At June 30 last mine-develop-
ment account stood at £77,889
and intangibles at £246,107,
while current assets and invest-
ments exceeded liabilities by
£112,274. Unpaid calls, amount-
ing at balance-date to £36,986,
have since been paid.
The f.-p. vendors shares
account for £200,000 of the
£508,750 paid capital, 1,543,750
10s. shares paid to 4s. making up
the balance. The contribs. last
sold at 3s. 3d.
It was originally a Wallace
H. Smith float. Shareholders in
his mining ventures have usually
had a break sooner or later.
Which adds to the market
interest in this scrip.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Charmian Jacka, whose last appear-
ance with the Little Theatre was as
Sally in “I Am a Camera,” has the diffi-
cult role of Clara in “The Wooden Dish,”
a drama by Edmund Morris based on
the problem of growing old in a modern
society. Central figure of this moving
play is Pop Dennison (Lewis Tegart), a
very old man whose family finally send
him to a home. In the audience at the
premiere were U.S. Consul-General
Gerald Warner and Mrs, Warner (she
attractively dressed in white), Dr. and
Mrs. D. Duckher (he is in charge of
the Information Library at the U.S.
Consulate), Mr. and Mrs. Carleton
Brower (a U.S. Vice-Consul), Mrs.
George Fairfax (her silk frock with its
deep-frilled hemline in a primrose-yellow
floral design), Dr. Marcella Sexton
(Adelaide), Dr. Margaret Troup, Dr.
Gladys Hallows, Judy Granowski (in
full-skirted black taffeta frock and gold
taffeta stole), Beverley Dunn (who wore
rose-pink shot-taffeta), Peggy Marks (her
off-shoulder frock of jade-green silk),
Dr. and Mrs. Arthur Joyce (she wearing
a black faille cocktail-frock), Mrs. Peter
Randall, Mr. and Mrs. Fred May
(Canberra), Mr. and Mrs. Bill Catmull
and Mrs. John Dougall.
# V V
The Moulin Rouge, St. Kilda’s new
night-club, opened last week. David
Rich is the. proprietor, and on the open-
ing night Jan Carter, formerly with the
Tivoli, was the vocalist. Among those at
the launching were Mr. and Mrs. Pavel
Horsky (she attractive in a pastel-blue,
white-embroidered sheath-frock), Mr.
and Mrs. Joli Mysies, Mr. and Mrs.
Nixon (her dinner-frock of black faille)
and Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Wollan.
# #
When Dr. Heather Hosking, only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. B. O.
Hosking, of Eaglemont, was married at
the Ivanhoe Methodist Church to Mr.
Lex Bartram she wore a gown of pearl-
tinted Italian-brocade cut on classical
lines and with long sleeves. A coronet
of matching brocade trimmed with sprigs
of lily-of-the-valley held the fingertip veil
of tulle, and she carried a bouquet of
gardenias and stephanotis. The brides-
maids, Dr. Barbara Stuart and Dr. Joan
Bradley, wore cream pure-silk-taffeta
frocks, ballerina-length, the Alice-bands
on their hair trimmed with frangipani and
their long white gloves having bracelets
of the same flower. The bridegroom,
youngest son of Dr. and Mrs. R. D.
Bartram, of Canterbury, had Eric
Bachelard as best man and John
McKenzie as groomsman. Reception was
at the Wattle Park Chalet.
☆ ☆ ☆
There is little movement in the social
waters, for most well-known hostesses are
still out of town, either at distant beaches
or in the country. Mr. and Mrs. E.
Alstergren have gone to Warrnambool,
and down at Portsea are Mrs. Constance
Day, her son Neville and daughter
Deanna. Dr. and Mrs. Tom Crankshaw
are also at Portsea, Mr. and Mrs. “Bing”
Molyneux at Mornington. Mrs. Ray
Joseph has gone to Hobart and is staying
at Wrest Point. Mr. and Mrs. Ronnie
Nott and Mrs. Nott’s sister Betty Smith
have been holidaying at the Sydney sea-
side suburb of Manly (late in April Mr.
Nott will fly to Europe on a business-trip
and will come home via U.S.; Mrs. Nott
will fly to Honolulu and meet him there)
Cherry Borthwick and Sue Hogg have
been on holidays in Tasmania, Cherry
staying with Louise Keach at Cressy, Sue
with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. J. Hogg,
of _ Launceston, at their Scamander
holiday-house on the east coast.
# *
White-and-gold was the color-scheme
chosen by Juliet Moira—only daughter
of Mr. Hubert S. Black, of Toorak, and
the late Mrs. Black—when she married
Clive Robert, elder son of Mr. and Mrs.
£ llve , Ao McFarlane, of Pleasant Park’
Penola (S.A.), at beautifully decorated St
John’s, Toorak. Her Princess-line gown
of white re-embroidered lace had a short-
sleeved fitting bodice; the graceful skirt
featured a slight train. Orange-blossom
held the long tulle veil, and her bouquet
was of gardenias and stephanotis. Sally
Ann Blair, Xenia Barr Smith, Margaret
Wallace and the ’groom’s sister Joanna
attended in Princess-line frocks of white
pleated Swiss-cotton, which carried three
large, gold silk bows. On their hair were
white-and-gold silk twists in the shape of
a horseshoe, and they carried white
Christmas-lilies. Richard Law Smith was
best man and Tim Baylis, John McFar-
lane and William Black groomsmen.
Reception was at Menzies’.
Sydney actress Toni Lamond, who has
the leading role in “The Pyjama Game,"
the Firms new musical-comedy coming
shortly to Her Majesty’s, is the daughter
of Joe Lamond and of Mrs. Max Reddy,
both well known in theatrical circles.
In private life Toni is Mrs. Frank
Shelden, and mother of a baby girl. She
met her husband at the Tivoli when she
was appearing in the. Tommy Trinder
Show, and turned down Trinder’s offer
of a career on the London stage for
marriage. Photo by Allan.
The christening-gown worn by Gerar-
dus Adrian George Verstoep, the five-
months-old son of Mr. and Mrs. Gerardus
Verstoep, of Rotterdam, was made by
his grandmother, Mrs. G. A. Hilford, of
Glen Iris, and flown to Holland in time
for the ceremony. It was made of beauti-
ful old lace and satin-brocade from the
wedding-gown of his grandmother and
great-grandmother. Mrs, Verstoep was
formerly Margery, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs George Hilford, of Glen Iris.
☆ ☆ ☆
In glorious sunshine Mr. and Mrs.
Walter Killough entertained many guests
at a “brunch”-party in the garden
of their Toorak home. ,Guests-of-honor
were U.S. Consul Joseph Wiedenmayer
and his wife (who leave shortly, he to
take up another appointment) and Mr.
and Mrs. Stanley Lehman, who also
leave shortly for the U.S. The hostess
chose a red-and-white-patterned silk
frock, Mrs. Wiedenmayer a sheath of
grey-and-white-patterned silk, Mrs.
Lehman a 'grey-and-white linen-tweed
suit.
Among the guests were Colonel John
Hussey (U.S. Air Force Attache) and
his wife (she wearing a pastel-blue
ensemble); Lieut.-Colonel Collas Harris
(Assistant Air Force Attache) and Mrs.
Harris ; Lieut. Robert Brumsted (Assistant
U.S. Navy Attache) and Mrs. Brumsted ;
U.S. Consul-General Gerald Warner and
Mrs. Warner; and new Consul William
Bushwaller and Mrs. Bushwaller (her
black linen frock highlighted with black-
and-white-striped collar and cuffs); Lady
Storey and her son Keith; Lady Hutton,
Dr. and Mrs. Grantley Shelton, Mr. and
Mrs. Angus Jones, Mr. and Mrs. A.
Hvistendahl, Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Cox, the
Len Doolings, and Mr. and Mrs. Mark
Clements.
SYDNEY
The off-season, though a little livelier
this year than usual, provided this Letter
with an opportunity to catch up with
that fairly new phenomenon of Sydney
life the drive-in theatre.
After driving for about half-an-hour
from the city it was a little bit like
landing on another planet to pass through
toff-gates in the summer dusk and to be
directed by numerous attendants (wearing
smiles and berets, but otherwise conven-
tionally clad), down the gentle incline of
a broad hill to a position among the
tiers of parking-spots, each marked by
a post with a loudspeaker hanging on it.
For a while one just gazed spellbound
at the huge, empty screen standing out
dramatically against the scudding clouds ;
then an attendant came and put the loud-
speaker into the car, and thereafter music
sounded with a mighty sound, but it
could be turned down, or even off if you
wished.
As the show did not start till 7.30 p.m.
and it was then only 6.30, food was the
next consideration. This was being sold
from an elaborate kiosk on the crest of
the hill opposite the screen. Little colored
tables dotted the adjoining patio, and on
a slightly lower level there was a big
playground for children (many of whom
were in pyjamas and dressing-gowns).
Steak was being barbecued in one
corner of the patio, fish cooked in
another; people milled in and out of the
kiosk, ice-creams, hot-dogs and so on
in hand ; family-parties rushed hither and
yon; and cars kept moving in till all the
the tiers were full. Half the cars faced
one screen, half another on the opposite
side of the kiosk.
Back in the car after having success-
fully cut up a T-bone steak with a plastic
knife (the serrated edge is the secret),
one began to feel great anxiety about its
being too light to be able to see the
images on the screen. But night had
successfully fallen by 7.30, and the
images stood out clearly. There were two
colored cartoons, a newsreel, a preview of
a coming attraction, and one very bad
feature-length film, all clearly visible to
all occupants of the car.
At the end, “God Save the Queen” was
played, but it was very hard to stand to
attention in the circumstances. Then a
voice directed all to put the loudspeaker
back on the post and move out to the left.
Which all did without hesitation or hold-
up, and wondered why city traffic could
not be as easily arranged, for by this time
the cars for the late-session must have
been moving in.
It was a very interesting experience,
even though the film itself was not worth
seeing and the programme was really very
short. Perhaps later, when the novelty of
the thing is not enough to draw the
crov/ds, better films will be shown. As
for the organisation, it was all very
efficient, and everyone seemed to be having
a really fine time.
The lady with the sweet, sad expression
is film-actress Victoria Shaw, otherwise
Jeannette Elphick, daughter of the J. A.
Elphicks, of Croydon (N.S.W.). Jeannette,
who was one of Australia’s most success-
ful models, arrived from Hollywood with
her husband Roger Smith during the
week for a month’s visit to her parents.
She will shortly be seen here in the
Columbia film “The Eddy Duchin Story,”
featured with Tyrone Power and Kim
Novak.
The Archibald, Wynne and Sulman
competition-entries are again drawing
large crowds to the National Gallery.
Among the portraits there are not nearly
so many of well-known women as usual,
though there is a nice one of Miriam
Hyde, a dramatic one of Ngaio Marsh
and one of Ruby Rich. Mary Edwell-
Burke has painted Thelma Attwood and
Mary McLeish Mrs. Alan Brett, while
Mary M. Abbott has painted a charming
portrait of young Imogen Osborne.
One always gets very tired at this
exhibition, and no wonder ! The Sulman
seems .to represent the activities of Aus-
tralia, but to see them all at once is
very exhausting. Roy Fluke’s “Peak
Hour Bus” is sufficiently wearing, with-
out experiencing immediately afterwards
a “Rough Surf” (Carl Plate), a "Jumble
Sale (Miriam Moxham), “Rock and
Roll (Frederic Bates), a “Corroboree,”
“Conflict,” “Endurance” and “The
Banishment,” not forgetting the
Delinquents,” the “Bridesmaids” (very
like the delinquents), a “Bar-room,” a
Wine, Saloon” and a “Room at the
Cross. ’ One staggers out, oppressed with
the stress of modern living.
* ☆ ☆
C harming Nellie Lamport, well known
for her “marathon” parts in radio and for
her theatrical performances, told some
amusing stories when she was guest-of-
honor at the Fiesta Club’s meeting on
Sunday night. She spoke of the serious
way listeners take radio-serials —some
knitting bootees, for instance, when a
character is supposed to be having a
baby! One woman wrote remonstrating
with her for “her evil ways.” “If you
don’t mend them,” she threatened, “I will
switch you off!”
The Fiesta Club, which held its
musicale and mannequin-parade at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Wilson at
Point Piper, provides one year’s tuition
at the Conservatorium for the winner of
its scholarship this year, John
Germaine. Mrs. Mavis Paton and
Madame Marotta organised the enjoyable
party, and named February 17 as the
date for the next one.
* ☆ *
Noted that the orchestra at the open-
ing night of- “The Magic Flute” at the
Elizabethan Theatre looked quite smart
in white-shirts with black bow-ties. In
the heat of a Sydney summer, men’s even-
ing-wear seems nothing less than • idiotic.
No woman would think of putting on a
woollen coat to wear in a hot theatre, but
the unfortunate males have to endure it.
It is not really a solution to take off the
coat; a complete reform is necessary.
Who will be the first man-of-fashion to
lead the revolution? It would be a
crusade well worth launching.
☆ ☆ fr
Of course it does not prove that men
are cleverer than women, but boys
certainly seem to have stolen the show
in the Leaving Certificate honors-list.
Boys topped the State in English, Latin,
French, German, Greek, Physics,
Chemistry, Agriculture, Maths I, Maths
11, Modern History and Economics. In
Biology, Botany and Geology, where girls
were top, there were no boys in the
honors-list at all, so perhaps they do not
compete here. Other subjects in which
girls won first place were Ancient History,
Geography and Music.
# ☆ ☆
What can you do with eating-material
once you have it ready? According to
Dr. Buwei Yang Chao, who wrote How
to Cook and Eat in Chinese (Faber), you
can boil it, steam it, roast it, red-cook it,
clear-simmer it, pot-stew it, stir-fry it,
deep-fry it, shallow-fry it, meet it, splash
it, plunge it, rinse it, cold-mix it, sizzle it,
salt it, pickle it, steep it, dry it, smoke it,
and “if you have done it right, eat it.”
All these methods the doctor explains
in her engaging cook-book, and not only
gives recipes for each but discusses them
with originality of touch. “Meeting” is
the process used when pre-cooked
materials are put together, usually with
some additional seasoning, and then
cooked. “Of two quantities of things,
it is the thing of the smaller quantity
which is said to meet the other; for
example, Shrimp Cakes meet Celery
Cabbage. You can have, a great many
things meeting together, as in Arhat’s Fast,
which is a veritable assembly.”
Dr. Buwei Yang Chao writes also a
delightful introduction on Chinese eating-
customs. Table-manners, for instance,
begin with a fight over yielding preced-
ence when entering the dining-room.
“Among familiar friends, it may come to
actual pushing, though never to blows.”
If you are at a loss how to eat your
shrimp, says the doctor-cook, “Do as I
do. I take hold of a shrimp between my
chopsticks. I bite off one half of the
shrimp. While keeping the other half
between my chopsticks, I shell the first
half with my tongue and teeth, spit out
the shell noiselessly in my shells-and-
bones dish, and eat my shrimp. Now it
takes moral courage for me to do this
at a large party.... ”
The whole book has this personal
approach, and introduces some new
cooking-terms which will undoubtedly
become part of our daily talk. One of the
nicest is the “dot-heart,” which is a little
snack taken between meals.
It is an unusual and original book,
amusing to read useful to follow.


Missing Friend
WOULD THOMAS WILLIAM TAYLOR,
formerly of Whangarei, New Zealand, or
.anyone knowing his whereabouts, please
communicate with WEBB, ROSS & ROSS,
Solicitors, Whangarei.
The tunic with
a touch of magic
There is a touch of magic about a Stamina tunic. And look
what you get when you buy Stamina ... Extra, built-in strength.
A superb cut for high-styled smartness. A tunic that
is reversible and has an extra wide hem to give extra
years of wear. Sizes? Any size you need. Colors?
Grey, Brown, and Navy Blue. Price? A price so low
it gives you double value.
n
ASK FOR
And remember • • •
there is a secret, zip-fastened
pocket in which you will find a
free packet of those famous
WOMEN OF STAMINA cardst
Stamina
mn
m
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursts
Archibald Competition
William Dargie’s prizewinning
portrait of “Mr. Albert
Namatjira” in this year’s Archi-
bald competition has much to
commend it —an excellent like-
ness, simply posed and recording
very well the simple dignity of
the subject. Against those virtues
one must score the hurried
sketchy background and an
apparent thinness of paint which
deprives the portrait of Dargie s
usual solidity.
The total effect is that of an
impression—a very good one
yet to be built up to the full
depth and strength of a
portrait. ,
For the present commentator s
money, Ivor Hele’s portrait of
“Mr. I. B. Jose, M.C.,” would
have been a better choice —it has
all the qualities to be respected
in the Dargie none of its
weaknesses ; the painting is sure,
strong and sculptural, and,
whereas the simplicity and hint
of mystery in Dargie’s sitter
come across rather obviously,
one could muse for a long time
over the complexities of
character in the Hele portrait.
Accepting a portrait as
character - revealing likeness
painted with full mastery of the
medium, there is really nothing
else in the exhibition to compete
with the Hele and Dargie. Hele’s
second string —“The Right Rev,
B. P. Robin’’—and Dargie's—
“Air - Vice - Marshal Bi'adin”—
would be the next competitors
for top placing. Joshua Smith
has an alert self-portrait and
William Pidgeon a portrait of
Mr. Ben Freshwater with similar
qualities, but, clever as they both
are, they don’t approach the Hele
portrait for strength and
completeness.
H. A. Hanke’s record of R. J.
Heffron is a smooth but vacant
study, and Graeme Inson’s
portrait of Roderick Shaw says
more about the late Max
Meldrum than anyone.
Entries for the Wynne prize
look distressingly like an exhibi-
tion of “Saturday Evening Post”
illustrations, and the winner,
L. Scott Pendlebury’s delicate
impression of “The Chicory
Kiln, Phillip Island,” only just
escapes that suggestion. Two
softly lyrical Lance Solomons,
John S. Loxton’s “Summer
Noon,” John Eldershaw’s “Old
Farm” and Leonard Long’s
“Afternoon Light, Wee Jasper,
N.5.W.,” all run the winner close.
The Sulman has the best three
entries grouped conveniently
together Douglas Watson’s
“The Grape Pickers,” Harold
Greenhill’s “Prawning at Night,”
and Carl Plate’s “Rough Surf.”
The Greenhill, with its prismatic
effects in green and yellow and
the central strength of its group-
ing, was a fair choice.
Stage and Music
“The Magic Flute”
It would take a battery of
electronic-brains to work out
how a Japanese Prince, wander-
ing around Egypt in the time of
Rameses I in search of oppressed
maidens who need rescuing,
could manage to get mixed-up
in an agglomeration of 18th-
century Freemasonic rites and
Oriental mysticism yet it
remains one of the marvels of
music-drama that such a welter
of absurdity and confusion
becomes, right from curtain-rise,
good “theatre.”
That it does so rests almost
entirely on Mozart’s score,
which contains much more
magic than the librettist was able
to conjure up. Above all, it
owes its success to the com-
poser’s incomparable gift for
character-delineation in terms of
sound.
With-its emphasis on fantasy,
the opera is always a challenge
to the imagination of producer
and set-designer ; in the Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust’s produc-
tion at Sydney's Elizabethan,
Stefan Haag and Desmonde
Downing combined with marked
success. The various technical
devices—notably the Queen of
the Night’s spectacular elevated
entry —were ingeniously con-
trived and smoothly executed.
Miss Downing’s settings effec-
tively caught the sinister and the
mysterious atmosphere.
Stanley Clarkson sang the role
of the high-priest Sarastro with
easy dignity, and his “Within
These Hallowed Walls”—one of
the noblest bass arias in the
whole range of opera—was
splendidly wrought. Geoffrey
Chard was in good character as
the humorous-minded bird-
catcher Papageno, and he sang
his big aria spiritedly and in
good voice. Max Worthley’s
Tamino was stiffish and his tenor
adequate but not outstanding.
Marjorie Conley was an
attractive Pamina —though no
great shakes as an actress she
used her pure, effortlessly-pro-
duced soprano with intelligence.
Betty Prentice’s Queen of the
Night was short of the requisite
evil quality, but, allotted one of
the most difficult of all arias for
the coloratura voice—it includes
a leap to a terrifying high F—
she acquitted herself fairly well.
There was some stirring
chorus-work by the assembled
priests of Isis, and the orchestra
under Joseph Post also did well,
nowhere better than in the
symphonically - proportioned
Overture, with its splendid fugal
treatment.
*Z+ *l* <2*
Pinafore”
The true and loyal Savoyard
never questions Gilbert, of
course. He accepts with grati-
tude situations and paradoxes
which, though he knows ’em all
backwards, never seem to cloy;
likewise with the ingeniously-
rhymed verses, and a gallery of
comic characters unmatched on
the lyric-stage. Among the latter
shines the resplendent First Lord
of the Admiralty, Sir Joseph
Porter, K.C.8., who owed his
elevation to that exalted rank to
voting at his party’s call and
never thinking for himself at all.
One of the strangest things
about Sir Joe, however, is that
such a senile old chap should be
the possessor of dozens of sisters,
cousins and aunts all of whom
are seemingly about half-a-
century younger than himself—
a freak of Nature for which
those who attended the opening
of the Firm’s latest presentation
of the comic-opera at Sydney
Empire must give thanks, for
they were as nifty a bevy as one
could wish to see. And they
sang Sullivan’s melodious
choruses with freshness and
charm.
Grahame Clifford mixed comic
dignity with querulousness to
good effect as the First Lord,
and he sang his explanatory
opening number, “And Now I
Am the Ruler,” with rasping
resonance and vocal acrobatics.
Richard Walker’s Dick Deadeye
was a particularly twisted, cross-
grained nark, the only gleam of
pleasure lighting his jaundiced
eye being when he encompassed
his messmate’s temporary dis-
comfiture.
Ralph (Terence O’Donoghue)
and Captain Corcoran (Eric
Thornton) sang well enough, but
could do with more plain speech
and less elocution. Richard
Watson, a hearty Bill Bobstay,
sang “He Is an Englishman” with
gusto and forthrightness. Helen
Roberts, an appealing Josephine,
had her soprano working well
in “Sorry Her Lot” ; Muriel
Brunskill explained with clarity
the contretemps which marked
her baby-farming venture, and
ogled the gallant skipper shame-
lessly. The tars sang “We Sail
the Ocean Blue” with a salty
tang and generally disported
themselves as such carefree
mariners should.
& * *
“The Play’s the Thing”
As brightly brittle as a piece
of plastic jewellery and as
smoothly polished, Ferenc
Molnar’s skit on Hungarian
society caught between two
World Wars wouldn’t hurt any-
body’s feelings, which is prob-
ably why it ran for 300 nights
in New York.
The situation of the famous
playwright who overhears a
conversation between a prima
donna and her lover, incor-
porates it in a play and then
gets both parties to perform
their roles in the play has been
used before in a sort of way by
Shakspeare, but he made a pro-
found tragedy of it. . Mr. Molnar
hasn’t any such gloomy inten-
tion, and he succeeds in
frivolling lightly through three
acts, besprinkling his dialogue
with jokes on an under-
graduate-level which keep the
audience laughing.
In Peter Batey’s production
by the Union Theatre Repertory
Co., at Melbourne University,
most laughs came when Wyn
Roberts, as Almady, the leading
actor, was paying his lunatic
attentions to Joan Harris, as
Ilona Szabo, the prima donna.
Roberts has a genuine comedic
talent and an unstudied way of
discharging a verbal torrent at a
speed which few could equal, and
there was as much wit in his
expression and his gestures as
in his lines. There was nobody
in the cast who came near him
for acting virtuosity, though
Frank Gatliff gave a dignified
performance of the allegedly
famous playwright.
Talkies
“Patterns” (Sydney Esquire):
Distinguished script - writing,
directing and acting make this
film the best yet on the theme
of big business. The story
concerns a ruthless tycoon
(Everett Sloane) who tries to
force the resignation of his ageing
vice-president (Ed Begley) by
playing-off against him a new
young executive (Van Heflin).
Every character rings true and
the dialogue is excellent. A warm,
rich portrait is drawn by Eliza-
beth Wilson, as the confidential-
secretary, and Beatrice Straight
gets the most out of the role of
the young executive’s wife
anxious to go up every rung of
the financial ladder with him.


APPIETREE FIAT
By BRIAN JAMBS
WHEN O’Meara had
“selected” in the years
and years ago and
fenced-in his block, he
ran his line, on one side, to
exclude the worst patch of old
Appletree Flat, where shafts of
the old diggings remained, hun-
dreds, thousands of them, many,
of them neat rectangles of dark-
ness, and others caved in into
unsightly, irregular holes.
Ryan had selected next door,
and the Appletree Flat, which
O'Meara had not fenced, he
came to look on as his own.
Ryan had a huge slab of country
that was nearly all holes and
heaps, and Ryan was proud of
it.
Ryan was old now ; fairly old,
that is ; and he’d never see sixty-
five again, as they say. Nor
seventy, either, maybe. But he
was straight and active still. A
big man, big-limbed, powerful.
Handsome yet, in a somewhat
battered fashion. Round, big
face that was very animated.
Inexhaustibly good - humored,
tolerant. And his blue eyes had
never lost their twinkle —some-
thing extremely attractive in
those eyes, suggestive always of
good-nature and mischief. Ryan
was reckoned, and rightly, a
splendid neighbor.
He was a young man, a mere
youth, when the Ten Mile broke
out. He hadn’t struck it rich
at all; but that was just his luck.
It was the same at Gulgong,
Temora and Wyalong later on—
always close to the big things,
but never quite on them. In the
early ’nineties at Coolgardie his
party landed squarely on a patch
that was rich beyond their
dreams —and then a syndicate
got to work on them. Ryan
always spoke of it as The Syndi-
cate with noticeable bitterness.
T 3 YAN had married and settled
down at and about the time
of his selecting on the Ten Mile
and Appletree Flat.
In one corner of his holding
that was less like a sieve or a
colander he built a home and
raised a family. That was long
before the Coolgardie venture.
When that happened the family
stayed on the selection, and from
that point of distant vantage
watched their father’s fortunes,
or lack of them.
Ryan was not a farmer. First
and last he was a digger. As
with priests and masons there
was complete permanency. But
an unlucky digger must do some-
thing more than raise a family
on a long succession of duffers
or near-duffers. So Ryan “went
in for” a bit of dairying, and
occasionally bought a bunch of
poddies, with a view to selling
them later at a profit; and a bit
of horse-breeding, too, in a
moderate way.
There was quite fair grass in
the gullies between the old shafts,
and where mullock hadn’t fouled
the ground. It might have been
a profitable undertaking but for
those same holes. Disaster
simply stalked his horses and
cattle.
The announcement of tragedy
ran much to a pattern. Young
George—it was mostly young
George who acted as herald—
would appear on the track that
led up the gully, his bare legs
fairly twinkling with speed. At
a point exactly halfway between
the big woolly-butt tree and the
woodheap he would stop, gather
breath and fairly scream out
linny’s down a digger’s
hole! ”
That meant that Jinny had to
be wiped off the list of produc-
ing milkers. Once Jinny, or
any cow, went down a hole, she
was a dead loss.
Or it would be milder in
report: “I can’t find Lily this
morning.”
George had rounded the little
herd in the yard, and Lily was
missing. After milking was
finished all hands set out to look
for Lily. There was little doubt
of what had happened; it was
a question of where.
Ryan himself carried an
ancient muzzle-loader, single and
very long in the barrel, with
the reputation of being a most
efficient gun.
“Just in case, in a manner of
speaking, that is,” said Ryan.
TT was George who eventually
1 found Lily. George was
wonderful that way, really. Lily
was in a fairly shallow hole, on
her back.
“Here she is! ” shrilled George.
“And she’s still alive!”
In the murk of the hole Lily
could be seen, in a most uncom-
fortable posture for any cow.
She was decidedly in a bad way.
“The back of her is broken
more than probably,” diagnosed
Ryan. “Now, then, stand back
the lot of you! ”
The old muzzle-loader went
off like a small cannon. Two
times as like as not to make a
proper job of it, for Ryan was
tender and merciful over the fate
of his cows. And Lily henceforth
was eliminated from the list of
producing-milkers.
And so, sooner or later, Spot
and Stumpy and Brindle went
off the list. And those specula-
tion-poddies displayed an amaz-
ing genius for ending up their
joyful careering, after thunder-
St °l * S ’ “ S L mil f f J? oles V ,
After each of these frequent
with or without the
dlscbarge ?4 X7 ei Y>,
would say, Well, well, which
the l nCldent WaS
closed as far as he was con-
ecrned.
The four or five mares on the
P lac , e feed better But their
handsome colts and fillies didn
Blue J s £oal , ls do ™ a .
came Georges high-pitched
notes. ,
That was Carbine Two, a colt
of marvellous promise, so the
Ryan boys reckoned. But
Carbine Two like many a
human, was cut oft shoit in h
P r °™ sai >“ d la ? ve hls
!
Carbine Two, is it now?”
So it was with Mona’s foal; a
promising filly, that was. Also
with a colt, nearly ready to break,
who would be “surprising them
all yet, in a year or so, and less
than that.”
On this occasion more than
desperate attempts were made to
save the colt. Malachi, they
called him, fit too for the collar
of gold, or its modern equivalent
maybe, a gold cup. Neighbors
forgathered and peered down
the ugly hole at this unfortunate
namesake of an ancient king,
and offered advice freely, and
commiserated suitably with the
really distressed Ryan. Most of
the advice was useless and the
means of assistance seemed hope-
less.
But at last one bethought him
of an endless-chain in town and
drove in and borrowed it. A
great leaning tree near by gave
convenient purchase, after some-
one at great risk had fastened a
rope round Malachi’s neck. Then
was Malachi hoisted to the
surface, still breathing, still alive,
But he died almost immgdi .
atel a£ter
At this point in the drama
Ry an went home and waited not
for the obsequies. For once the
twinkle went out of his blue
And for once he didn’t say
.. Well wellr For Ryan had
aII tho frishman’s love of a horse,
and tvfal aC hi xvas something out
of the box.
'T'HERE were two O Meara
A boys, Terry and Mat.
Growing up now, nineteen and
seventeen, and anxious to im-
prove their holding. They had
the instinct for the soil, inherited
most likely from the German
strain on their mother’s side,
Their mother, who was de-
cidedly Teutonic in feature,
strangely enough thought of her-
self as Irish. Perhaps that was
an embalming of the memory of
the long-dead O’Meara ; or it
may have been a matter of
religion—most of the other
German folk thereabouts were
“Lutherick,” and so in a way
divided from her.
Be that as it may, you will
sometimes find this race-by-
adoption. There was the case,
for instance, of the celebrated
Mr. Wong (he had dropped the
preceding “Ah”), a man of con-
siderable wealth and local im-
portance. Mr. Wong denied all
his Chinese ancestry and tradi-
tion and became a true brither
Scot, and an almost fiercely
sentimental one, rendering on
the slightest provocation “My
Love Is Like a Led Led Lose”
with a tender emotion that would
have done Bobby Burns’ heart
good. And so strong were
his feelings that “My Heart’s in
the Hielands” would send the
tears streaming down his cheeks.
Terry and Mat O’Meara said
to their mother many times, “We
ought to fence-in that bit of
Appletree Flat.”
“Tut! And for why should
we?” replied their mother, who
had apparently caught something
of the idiom from the O’Meara
himself.
“It’ll grow a wonderful bit of
grass.”
“And we to be losing every
head of stock in the holes and
all.”
“But there wouldn’t be any
holes for them to fall into,” said
Terry.
“Get along with your non-
sense then,” said his mother,
# “and there are thousands of
holes on that same bit of
ground.”
“There wouldn’t be if we
filled them in.”
“Fill them in!” Mrs. O’Meara
laughed ironically. “You’d be
old enough by the time that was
done.”
“Not so long as you’d think.”
In the end they persuaded their
mother to walk over that bit of
Appletree Flat, the “Spare
Piece,” as Terry called it. There
were not quite as many holes as
Mrs. O’Meara had said there
were, and Terry pointed out that
the holes were not so deep either
at one end of the area. Also, the
boys gave a complete demonstra-
tion of how quickly a shaft could
be filled-in: pick and mattock
easily loosened the mullock,
which had never consolidated, no
matter how long it had lain
there; and two shovels had it
down the hole in no time.
“There you are!” said Terry.
“See that,” and he pointed to a
heaped-up mound above the
recent hole, like a fresh grave.
“To allow for settling when it
rains,” he explained.
Mrs. O’Meara was almost con-
vinced. “But I don’t know,” she
pondered. “You still don’t know
where the boundaries are. You’d
have to get a surveyor after all.”
“That’s easy,” said Terry.
“Mr. Burns is as good as any
surveyor.”
“Um! ” —very doubtfully.
Instances were given of Mr.
Burns’s superior abilities when
it came to measuring land. Mr.
Burns was the local school-
teacher ; he ran the Ten Mile
school, and was a man of many
parts: he could tell how high a
tree was, without climbing it, of
course; how many tons of hay
in a new stack, and how many in
an old stack ; how many super.-
feet in a big cypress log. He
could pull teeth —he did it for
children whose parents were poor
and couldn’t afford the dentist
in town —made a good job of it,
too, without anaesthetic, and
with parents’ consent.
He could fix up snakebite; he
did that once, anyway, and the
doctor said it saved young Dick
Winter’s life. He could bring


for lifetime beauty. . .
lifetime savings . . .
BUILD WITH
HARDIE'S "FIBROIITE
, ■ -
v P ' I*
mm
w c\ o*>»** 0
»SB
datCk
LOJ”®*
Whatever home plan you may have in
mind, "Fibrolite" is to-day's best -building
value. Not only does a "Fibrolite" home
cost less to build but less to maintain, less
to insure. Easily erected "Fibrolite" is fire-
retardant, termite-proof, rustproof and
completely weatherproof in fact, the
ideal material for the exterior and interior
walls and ceilings of Australian homes.
Dream and plan no longer—take the first step now. Write for your free and
post free copy of "Fibrolite" Home Plans Booklet—you buy more home for your
monev when you build with Hardie's Fibrolite.
11
H ARDIE'S
FIBROLITE
ASBESTOS CEMENT
(Regd. Trade Mark)
SHEETS
Sole Manufacturers: JAMES HARDIE & COY. PTY. LTD.
Cnr. York and Barrack Streets. Sydney.
rf
n
Please send, free and post free, your illustrated booklet
containing full information and designs of "Fibrolite" homes.
NAME-
.□
ADDRESS-
Please cross
and advise <
square if you would like our representative tp
an your home building problems. PH26/B
back drowned people to life
again—well, he as much as did
that when little Ada Sparks fell
into the dam. And many other
things. Surveying that Spare
Piece would be child’s play to
a man like Mr. Burns.
BUT there was another thing,
a matter of etiquette and
neighborly relations: Mr. Ryan
would have to be consulted. And
as if Fate had taken a hand,
Ryan himself appeared that
moment on the scene.
“Well, well!” said Ryan when
Mrs. O’Meara told him of the
project. He gazed with a far-
away look at the ground that was
not really his., And yet his in
more sense than the one of mere
ownership.
He looked at the two
enormous appletrees that gave
the flat its name—wonderful
trees that were old and thick
and knotted and gnarled when
the diggings were at their height
nearly half a century ago. Still
vigorous, too, as their wealth of.
green pendulous foliage showed,
and their great burst of bloom
in January when they might have
been dark ridges sifted with
snow . . .
. On the bigger of the trees were
knobby protuberances supposed
to have been originally the
notches made by blackfellows in
a much earlier time than the
diggings, made with their old
stone tomahawks, so Mr. Bums
had said. They were streaked
here and there with long stains
of dried blood —it looked like
that, though it crumbled into
small bright rubies when you
crushed it in your hand . . .
Wonderful old trees, those
apples, old and wise, in having
seen so much, so many people
come and go, and they still sur-
viving.
Ryan said in a faraway tone,
as if to match the look in his
eyes: “A wonderful bit of
ground, that was; richest on all
the Ten Mile.” He seemed to
be talking to himself.
“You think then—you don’t
“Not at all, Mrs. O’Meara, and
far be it from me . . .”
There was a long pause.
“We only thought—the boys
here, that is”
“Shure, and as if I didn’t
realise, Mrs. O’Meara. And, in
any case, it’s yours,”
“We wouldn’t like —that is, if
you said”
“And it’s not for me to be
saying: and for why should I?”
The twinkle was back in the
blue eyes. “And the bit of grass
is the best that there is here-
about, I do believe. And that’s
why I have lost more of my stock
here than in all the rest of the
place together. Maybe you will
be having more of the luck than
there was with me, and not be
losing such numbers.”
Terry’s turn to speak now:
“We won’t be losing any, Mr.
Ryan, for you see we are going
to fill-in all the old shafts.”
“Oh, you are!” Again the
faraway look. “You would,
would you now?”
OFTEN and often Ryan had
tried-out and picked-over
these old workings on Appletree
Flat. Never much to it really ;
the old-timers, for all their excite-
ment and haste, had been pretty
thorough. And a horde of China-
men had followed the first wave
of diggers and had rooted and
fossicked after their fashion.
But Ryan had sometimes come
upon a foot or two of solid
ground, missed somehow in the
long ago. The family lived well
when that happened. Not too
often, that was. And a weight or
two, an ounce or two, sometimes
came with gouging out the rock
bottom where it was rough and
cracked. But little enough when
spread over the years.
Mostly it had meant putting
down a new shaft to get any-
thing at all, for even if the old
shafts were sound enough to
trust, and the old drives too, the
air was bad. A “winsel,” as he
called it, was not sufficient to
make the air good enough.
Anyway, Ryan had always
come back to Appletree Flat and
this homing went from the days
on the Gulgong and Temora and
Coolgardie, and a score at least
of the little rushes near and far
that came to nothing much —
Long Gully, Gollan’s Paddock,
Walsh’s and so forth. All fizzled
out, they did, and not earning a
lasting name for themselves.
But wherever it was, Ryan
drifted back to the Appletree at
last; you could pick up a bit
of gold there if you knew.
Over and above and beyond
all such considerations there was
more to it with Ryan. The
O’Mearas couldn’t realise that,
and they couldn’t be expected
to.
MR. BURNS was delighted
when -he was approached
about the surveying of that Spare
Piece. He went to the Lands
Office in town and armed him-
self with maps and information.
With instruments (no theodo-
lite, of course) foolscap-paper in
great quantity, and an impro-
vised plane-table, he came over
after school and announced him-
self ready.
“It will be,” he said in his
slow, deliberate fashion, “a
matter largely of locating the
pegs of my predecessor. I mean,
of course, the pegs put in by the
original surveyor. Should we
fail in the location of these, and
I do not anticipate for one
moment that such a failure is at
all likely, then I fear it will be
necessary for you to seek the
services of a regular surveyor,
who will be in 'the way to secure
the accuracy denied to such
humble equipment as I possess.
Does that meet with your wishes,
Mrs. O’Meara and Mr. Ryan?”
It seemed fair enough, as
much of it anyway as they could
understand.
“I want to be clear bn the
point,” continued Mr. Burns. “I
am in the position of arbitrator
who will strive to find an equit-
able solution equally acceptable
to both parties, both parties being
present at the moment. In short,
then, wherever the line goes, and
whatever disappointment. there
may be on the one side, with
corresponding elation on the
other, if that line is indisputably
in accord with the original pegs,
or other marks that we may dis-
cover, then both parties will un-
questioningly accept such
decision?”
That was agreed to.
Mr. Burns was thoroughly
enjoying himself. No doubt
Solomon did, too, when he did
a bit of arbitrating.
It wasn’t such a hard job. The
original pegs were there, all
right, hidden and passed over
unwittingly during the years, but
there to be found with a little
scratching around. Mr. Burns
got the O’Meara boys to drive-in
stakes with white paper tied
securely to them ; like mark-out
stakes for ploughing. In an hour
or two the whole job was done.
“Well, well!” said Ryan.
And again, “Well, well!”
That was probably for the un-
ravelling of the mystery of the
old pegs.
“How many acres, do you
think?” asked Mrs. O’Meara.
“I couldn’t say exactly, Mrs.
O’Meara, unless I made a whole
series of measurements, which is
perhaps not altogether necessary.
You will, I am sure, appreciate
that the existing fence that pur-
ports to be the true boundary,
but isn’t, is altogether in the
wrong place.” He looked accus-
ingly and severely at her to indi-
cate past blunders of a serious
nature. “But as an approximate
calculation, or estimate I should
really say, the unfenced portion
should be in the vicinity of
fifteen acres. Very approxi-
mately, you must understand.”
Then Mr. Burns went home
and told Mrs. Burns all about it,
and it is doubtful who admired
Mr. Burns most, Mrs. Burns or
himself.
THE O’Meara boys split posts
on Ryan’s hill and snigged
them down the slope to the new
line. Ryan, sometimes, and his
younger boys, mostly, gave a
hand with the splitting and
snigging. Three new barbs were
considered sufficient for the
fence.
The first night the barbs were
up a small mob of Ryan’s year-
lings went clean through them
in a mad helter-skelter, and some
of them got rips and tears and
gashes that they would carry as
scars as long as they lived.
“And now they’ll know,” said
Terry O’Meara grimly as he and
Mat mended the broken wires.
And after that they did know.
Then for the filling-in—a much
bigger job than the O’Meara
boys had anticipated. They
hadn’t foreseen the complica-
tions of the old drives. A shaft
would be filled-in and topped-off
as a satisfactory job, and a heavy
thunderstorm would come along.
The whole filling would slip into
the drive, and there would be the
original shaft gaping as deep and
hungry as ever.
In some bad cases three, even
four, fillings were necessary.,But,
in a way, this was good, too, for
it got rid of the useless mullock
from the surface. It wasn’t such
quick work after all. Still it was
good to hear the rattle and
scuffle of clod and boulder and
loose hard clay and gravel down
the shaft, artd to watch the dusty
surface rapidly rising and rising
till it came to the level of the
ground. Good to heal the scars
of the tom and mutilated earth.
It couldn’t quite be a regular
and continuous job either. The
boys often had to leave it for
more pressing work on the farm.
It was spare-time work at most
times, but it went forward with
a will.
Between the two old apple-
trees the shafts were thickest of
all; every yard or two was a deep
shaft and an enormous heap of
mullock. When they were in
that section, Ryan often came
along; didn’t seem able some-
how to keep away.
“They were all prizes about
here —every one of them,” said
Ryan. “Now that shaft you’re
filling-in this minute—would you
believe it? —was one of the real
golden holes. Nearly three feet
of wash, and not a dish of it
that wouldn’t have gone an ounce
or more.”
“Who were they ; I mean, do
you remember?”
“Remember! Yes, my boy, 1
remember. There were two
brothers, the Alexanders, Bob
and Walter, and an Englishman
named Downs —Percy Downs,
that’s right—and the fourth was
—but dammitall if I don’t dis-
remember now who he was. Not
as if I can’t see him as plainly
as I see you; a little quiet sort
of man, with tattoos on his arms
.. . Charley, that was it;
Charley. But what’s his other
name? Shure, and it’s on the
tip of my tongue, as they say
99
It worried Ryan that he dis-
remembered, and yet that very
fact made the party more real...
“There was Percy Downs,
that’s right, and Walter and
Bob; the Alexanders. And
Charley—the name most like will
be coming to me when I’m think-
ing of something else entirely.”
He laughed. “My own father
was like that, too: he used to
say when his memory slipped
that he’d be sure to pick it up
in church. And he did, too. Or
at his prayers. I mind him once
stopping right in the very middle
of the Rosary and saying
‘antagonise’ and Mother was
quite annoyed over it, and asked
Father had he been drinking
again. Which Father said didn’t
signify, but ‘antagonise’ was the
word just the same ... Anyway,
Charley’s name will come to me,
too, sooner if not later. They do
say that the party took over
thirty thousand out of that hole.”
The mullock rattled down the
shaft again and Ryan walked
off, thirty or forty yards. “This
is where we were at the very
time, and I do believe this is the
very shaft . .
BEYOND the second of the big
appletrees the “ground” had
been patchy, though the shafts
were plentiful enough there, but
many of them rank duffers.
Ryan came more seldom
now.
At long last there wasn t a
single hole left that a beast
could fall into. Certainly there
were still left humps and
hummocks of mullock, for it
was impossible to put it all back.
But most of it was gone ; not a
vestige of a shaft left, and the
Appletree Flat was comparatively
level once more. Grass, especially
the trefoils, grew on it. Apple-
tree Flat as a diggings was
buried. It almost might never
have been.
Sometimes Ryan, when he
thought no one was about,
wandered over the Flat in a
mooning sort of way. Ryan, too,
seemed to have got a lot older in
a short time, and very absent-
minded. He never did manage
to catch hold of Charley’s second
name:
“What the devil is it now?
And strange I should be dis-
remembering. Well, well.”
One evening he came up to
O’Meara’s, and talked of this
and that, and seemed to ramble
a bit, too. Mrs. O’Meara,
always a good deal straight-
laced, sniffed unobtrusively, but
couldn’t smell the drink. Perhaps
he hadn’t been drinking at all.
Then Ryan reached the stage
where he “had been wondering
now” and “had been thinking of
it for some time now.” A very
tentative approach, but Mrs.
O’Meara recognised the
symptoms and tried to harden
her heart. But still, Ryan was
such a good neighbor ... He
was saying:
“Luck, as they say, is like the
worm and it turns at last , . . I
was wondering if you’d mind
very much . . . Know the gold
is there all right ... Just the
one shaft . .
(Continued on page 34)


LOW's
Autobiography
ROBERT LYND
(Bright essayist, and, as David Low here
affectionately describes him, a charming
host whose mostly-literary gatherings
were a feature of London life.)
One after another, David Low now meets practically the
whole array of leading and other top personalities
in London.
10
o Continued)
JLH Thpmas I was forming
Wm U I a wide acquaintance with
I y | ! the key characters of every-
i ™ | | day London [Low and
W- Thomas, of the
“Star” literary staff, made
an artist-journalist team for
several years, “covering” in a regular
London “Star” feature practically all
London’s famous (and out-of-the-way)
places, events, shows, historic nooks and
the like].
There were few holes-in-the-wall where
I did not know some Alf or Bill to give
us the keys of the town. But I was taking
an unconscionable long time to become
acquainted with those on the upper
shelves. If the mountain w®n’t come to
Mahomet, Mahomet might at least
suggest an appointment to call on the
mountain.
I remembered that in my youth when
I was travelling around Australia with
a sketchbook 1 had never any difficulty
in getting to know everyone of conse-
quence in a given town within a couple
of months. Why not London? The
technique would not be identical, but
applied. Ail I needed was a publishing
idea as a material justification for the
effort: a practical end to which I could
use the material collected.
As a boy I had been lost in admiration
of the masterly series of “ portraits
charges” of Daumier—the best stuff ever
in that line. I would have a go at some-
thing like that—pure essence of
personality, carefully distilled from close
observation. The omens were inauspicious
for such work in Britain, for the English
are not quick to distinguish art from
craftsmanship in their caricature, and
they look at caricatural studies of
personality in the same way as they look
at the symbolic likenesses of politicians
in newspaper cartoons, noting only that
the cartoons illustrate ideas and the
caricatural studies do not, and therefore
presumably must be of less importance.
Nevertheless, I would try a set of
portraits. None of that clever superficial
stuff “in a few brilliant lines.” None of
that easy exaggeration of physical
peculiarities merely. I would aim at
carrying each subject a stage or two
further towards fuller and more rounded
representation. This time I would go to
infinite trouble. No time limit. Deep
observation. Minute perception. Analysis
and synthesis of character. Then, if no
one would publish my finished drawings
I would do so myself.
T 7 ISTING fifty names of the most
distinguished men of the time,
writers, artists^scientists, philosophers (it
was surprising how easy it was to think
of fifty in those days), J wrote to each
of them expressing my wish to draw him
in the Daumier manner. I sent out the
letters in batches of three as time offered.
How should a neophyte approach the
gods of his being, until now only dimly
discerned through the enchantment of
distance, at last miraculously accessible
HILAIRE BELLOC
(This Belloc and the facing Chesterton are from the series of superb David Low caricatures which the
"New statesman" ran as special separate supplements in the mid-twenties. Elsewhere Low describes the
manager of the New Statesman” hunting London over for the best paper and the best printing processes.)
to mere mortal? With circumspection,
of course. Respect, reverence? Treading
softly, speaking only when spoken to?
Modestly bearing a lily to lay at their
colossal feet?
Certainly not lining them up, waving
them one by one to a chair with “You’re
next!” and polishing ’em off like an
iconographic Sweeney Todd. But needs
must when one has to exercise one’s
razor. My plan was effective, but it had
its drawbacks. One was that it went a
long way towards destroying at one fell
swoop any enjoyment I had as a reader
in literature of my time. It is a mistake
to be acquainted with one’s author. He
has a way of popping up between the
reader and the book.
A NOTHER disadvantage was that it
sometimes subjected me to mortifi-
cation. I was not yet sufficiently used to
the ways of the English to carry the job
through smoothly. Coming from a life-
time spent in an equalitarian society, my
approach was naturally too informal, my
speech too direct.
I was, in short, inclined to be friendly
with everybody right away, without
decent preamble of the mutual circlings
and sniffings customary among the
English of that time.
The consequences were not always
happy with the more reserved of my
subjects. These first encounters of
1921-25 therefore did not immediately
transport me into the cosy intimacy of
exclusive circles. Some, indeed, inspired
mutual repulsion, and I never met the
sitters again. A few of my sitters became
friends. In general, over thirty-five years,
it was inevitable that I got to know
most of them much better.
Professionally speaking, everything
went well. I had only two refusals—
John Galsworthy, who, I discovered
later, had a constitutional aversion to
caricature, which he thought malicious;
and Rudyard Kipling, who had been
grievously offended by a caricature of
himself by Max Beerbohm twenty years
before. Otherwise I found my ‘Taw
material” sufficiently co-operative.
As I had planned, my method for
these drawings was painstaking. I took
an extraordinary amount of trouble to
sense as much as I could of my man. In
the case of those who had some public
life in London I would stalk them for
weeks, sometimes months, at meetings,
public functions, private parties, in their
clubs, anywhere they might be, just look-
ing. Sometimes I waited for them in
the street or ate at the next table to them
at restaurants.
My miniature sketch-book was always
up my sleeve. Usually by the time I
was ready for a sitting I had the essence
of what I needed and only required a
check-up. Doing the job in this thorough
way took a long time, but piecing together
my notes was great enjoyment. Allow-
ing for my other activities, it was five
years before I had my series ready to
show. It was published in 1926.
The old stagers were richest in visual
character, possibly because with them it
had had time to develop. A. E. W.
Mason, with his monocle and his super-
cilious nose and chin, and Anthony Hope
Hawkins with his rich dramatic voice
just like a ’cello, were both complete
characters who might have walked out
of The Four Feathers and The Prisoner
of Zenda respectively. Unfortunately my
meeting with Hawkins was ruined by
tactlessness.
“You know who he is?” said the
mutual friend to me as he introduced us.
(What a thing to say!)
“Certainly! What’s worrying me is
whether he knows who / am,” says I,


(Damn! Can you beat that! These
cocky sayings will bust out of me when
I’m feeling good.)
]7 WAS interested to find how far the
il persons of authors could have been
deduced from their works. Walter de
la Mare, certainly. Just like it.
Completely.
As I had anticipated, A. A. Milne was
a gentle, likeable man set in a neat and
pleasant domestic interior, just what the
father of Christopher Robin should be.
Sir James Barrie, on the other hand,
was not at all fey, and I got the impres-
sion that his public whimsicalities were
all carefully thought up.
Conan Doyle could have been Dr.
Watson, of course, but never Sherlock
Holmes. Hugh Walpole had the physical
frame for Rogue Herries, but there was
a shy sensitive chap inside it. Thomas
Burke looked like a solicitor who had
never seen Limehouse except from the
top of a bus.
I was astonished one day when my
bell rang, the door opened and in
walked Joseph Conrad in the flesh, a
small man like Captain Kettle, heavy
shouldered with delicate extremities,
wearing purple socks. I had expected a
six-footer —why J don’t know.
Somerset Maugham wore a black
velvet jacket, no waistcoat. I noted on
my sketch that he had glittering eyes in
brown skin, an Arnold Bennett stammer
and a curl of the nostril suggesting the
presence of an unpleasant odor. He was
a patient sitter and he put me at my ease
by saying that he thought artists should
not be expected to converse cleverly,
since they express themselves in their
own ways. He himself moved and talked
all the time, mainly about how sick he
was of writing plays because of the
limitations of the medium. That was an
interesting morning.
TT FOUND Edgar Wallace just like a
It character in one of his own thrillers,
apparently churning out three novels at
once, writing, speaking into a dictaphone
and dictating to a young woman secre-
tary, all in lumps, so to speak, first to
one, then to another, then to another.
“Good Lord! Edgar,” I said (he had
one of those personalities that encouraged
Christian-names at sight), “don’t you
ever get them mixed? What if Jasper
steals the wrong papers and Handsome
Harry marries the villainess and lives
happy ever after by mistake?”
He took that seriously. “I’ve got an
elaborate system of checking,” he said.
He was wearing a'lurid dressing-gown.
“Do you always go about like that?” I
asked. “No,” he said, “I thought you’d
like me this way.”
A man and a brother. The bookstalls
were packed with Edgar Wallace novels
at the time, and the spectacle of Edgar
resplendent in evening attire at the Savoy
was Success incarnate, so I could not
resist asking him my pet question. “What
is success?” “Oh, you strike a balance,”
he said.
AS I had expected, the humorists were
personally not funny, but looked
rather as though they were studying for
the undertaking business.
W. W. Jacobs was a sad, worried-
looking man not at all like a Wapping
Old Stairs bargee. Pett Ridge was
gloomy, Even P. G. Wodehouse, a
cheerful big chap easy to get on with,
was not funny in the sense of jokative,
apart from his peculiar wish that I
should draw him after he had just had
drops for his eye-treatment so that he
would have impressively large and
luminous pupils like Edgar Allan Poe.
When jesting is your business, you
get it out of your system in working
hours. It’s the mouthpieces, the parrots
who repeat the jokes, who are funny,
hardly ever the owls who create them.
The latter in their leisure are usually
serious, given to solemn ratiocination.
This significant truth was underlined
for me once and for all by the case of
Professor Stephen Leacock, the cele-
brated Canadian humorist. Some
hundreds of M.P.s and a handful of
privileged strangers like myself assembled
in wistful anticipation to welcome the
Professor, universally acclaimed in the
1920's as a Master Humorist of his time,
to luncheon at the House of Commons.
The Professor arrived, there was hand-
shaking, the company hurried through
luncheon, unbuttoned its waistcoat and
sat back to roar.
The Professor, who was introduced in
a suitably witty speech, rose and delivered
a one-hour slab of verbal suet on the
Constitution, relieved by only one laugh
from end to end, and that was when
G. K. CHESTERTON
the clock over the fireplace went wrong
and emitted strange noises in the middle
of the speech. “Was that for me?”
asked the speaker. (Loud laughter.)
EHAD not foreseen G. K. Chesterton
and Hilaire Belloc accurately. I had
always relished my Chester-Belloc,
although some of their political ideas
gave me a pain in the neck, so I looked
forward to a closer view.
I had already peeked at them from
afar. The occasion had been a public
meeting at Chelsea Town Hall to Expose
the Sale of Honors and the Corruption
of the House of Lords.
There was a full house, naturally, since
there were in these subjects much matter
for exposure. It did not see the light on
that occasion. Nobody came down to
cases, and all the audience got was vague
anti-Semitism, which I found very
irritating.
First-impressions of Chester-Belloc
had been decidedly mixed. They had
been satisfactory in picturesque character,
disappointing in intellectual output.
When I met Chesterton privately a
little later he proved his repute as a
genial soul and the best of company.
Yet, as I listened to his effervescent
conversation, I felt an echo of my first
impression in a faint suspicion that there
might be a recipe for this sort of
brilliance ; and that if language were not
such an imperfect medium for expressing
ideas, it would be much more difficult to
evolve paradoxes.
While we talked I was drawing him
surreptitiously under my handkerchief.
He saw me and appeared acutely
unhappy.
“Don’t do that, please,” he said.
I tore up the sketch and put the book
away. Amiability was resumed, but I
was ashamed, partly for myself, that I
had allowed zeal to outrun manners, and
partly for him, that a man of his parts,
a satirist with pretensions to being a
caricaturist himself * should be so tender.
CHESTERTON’S characteristics were
so well defined that I needed no
further notes, anyway. Both he and
Belloc were exceedingly good to draw;
Chesterton’s ponderous body, draped
rather than dressed in roomy grey
lounge-suit with pockets made shapeless
by carrying things, was supported by
shy, nervous legs ; starched choker collar
surmounted by the face of Millais’s
“Bubbles” grown to the age of forty-
five and disillusioned, but still keeping
his curls and complexion. He had a
nervous habit of twiddling his fingers
when speaking in public.
“If someone stole Gilbert’s left fore-
finger, he’d be speechless,” said a friend
of his.
Belloc was made of different stuff.
His normal expression was severe, testy,
and he was inclined to change color to
a bluish-red under strong emotion.
Whereas Chesterton, regarded geometri-
cally, was circles and ellipses, Belloc was
squares and right-angles. Nuggety body,
short arms and legs, dressed so roomily
that when in full movement he created
his own breeze, and flapped like a ship
under sail.
three goes at my Belloc, and it
j] turned out t 0 be the best portrait of
tbat fi rs t series. He thought so, too, and
inscribed a copy . “The only true image
Qf the writer £ his age .”
-phe fact disproves the fallacious
notion that sympa thy between artist and
subject is of any account whatever in
making tho" wrote
Road to Rome, Mr. Clutterbuck’s
E i ect i on a nd some others, during a good
of those days my professional polite-
negs was sore j strained by his impreg-
nable assumption that 1 must approve
ajso his book The Servile State.
first , ace j was Unconvinced
superiority of the Distributive
State over the Capitalist or the Collec-
tive State as the guarantor of intellectual
liberty __ the fundamental liberty so far
as j was concerned. I certainly did not
transference of coal and
the railways to public ownership must
j neV itably end in compulsory labor. Nor
£ ba t tbe Employers’ Liability Act and/or
Lloyd George’s Insurance Act established
t h e Servile State.
Belloc, I felt, took things too much to
logical conclusions, and everybody knew
that things never went to logical conclu-
sions i n this world. The whys and the
o Continued on next page)


wherefores were impressive, but the
whereins were utterly unconvincing.
(Forty years later the imponderables and
the unpredictables seem to have gone
against his prognostications.)
TcDUT how could I have argued with
Hilaire Belloc? He was too obliging
and 1 was too busy. As I tried to show
in my drawing, I found him a bustling
WALTER LIN DRUM, early in
the career which led to his being
by so much the greatest of all
billiardists that they had to change
the rules to keep up with him.
aggressive man with endearing qualities
and hints of human weakness.
When I dined in his company at the
house of a publisher, someone after
dinner placed a box of chocolates on the
sofa beside him. He waxed characteristi-
cally didactic and contemptuous of
certain of his literary contemporaries,
and as he polished them off one after
another, chocolate after chocolate
disappeared until he almost emptied the
box.
At length he placed his hand on his
stomach, crinkled his brow and said:
not well; I must go.”
“Dear me,” said our host as he
departed. “Next time we will get a two-
pound box and get him going on the
House of Lords.”
Temperamentally Belloc was
frequently inclined to be cross about
something. From 1920 the something
was H. G. Wells. Having made no secret
of my own superficial admiration for
Wells I never achieved terms of even
superficial social friendliness with
Chester-Belloc. When some years later
JOHN MEAGHER, M.L.C.
("ready to meet the Papal
Negate," said "The Bulletin”
caption.)
I met them both again under the roof of
a triend, I lay under a further disadvan-
tage. Some cartoons of mine about Dr.
Mane Stopes, birth-control and Ireland
nad just been published and I was in
flaring trouble with the Catholics. There
was a distinct chill in the air.
JT WAS more at ease with the artists,
and 1 had an enjoyable yarn about
everything under the sun with Orpen.
Under the sun was right. His studio
h ada g * ass ro °f’ and stood “Bloody
Bill stripped to pants and undershirt,
painting away in the glare.
finished a big portrait-
assembling job for his historic group of
the Versailles Conference, and he was
very willing to pull out his sketch'books
and to show me some vitriolic skits of
that same massive work done in between
times to relieve his feelings, regaling me
the while with intimate anecdotes.
T i l j° und Lavery sitting in a dark studio.
I had always thought his portraits lacked
h?h t. The harmony of my visit was
slightly marred by a remark which in
certain moods I could have taken as
insulting.
“It’s a remarkable thing,” says he
pleasantly, “but I can’t make a carica-
ture.”
He was, as I say, pleasant, but I was
stung.
“WJiat’s remarkable about that?” I
replied. “What would you say if I said:
GEORGE GRAY, Lindrum's
notable billiardist forerunner.
‘lt’s a remarkable thing, but I can’t
paint a portrait like that one on your
easel’?”
Fortunately at this moment in walked
the lovely Lady Lavery, looking just like
an Irish postage-stamp.
“Let us both make caricatures of my
wife,” said Sir John brightly. I was so
unequal to the test that his was better
than mine. But .then he had probably
had more practice.
The day I called at Augustus John’s
studio the presence of a lively party put
PAPAL DELEGATE CERRETTI
(according to the original caption,
he is "blessing ‘The Bulletin' artist.”)
VICTORIAN PREMIER JOHN
MURRAY; an early favorite
with Low in “Bulletin” political
cartooning.
a crimp in my concentration, and when
I sized-up after.l left I found I had done
precious little drawing. All I could
remember of John was one glaring eye
and a wild smile.
*TpHE artists were easy, but the actors
“ were hard because of their occupa-
tional tendency to give impersonations of
LES DARCY, as a 19-year-old
on his way up to championship.
themselves all the time. Their characters
were already too overdrawn, so to speak.
The actor turned impresario, C. B.
Cochran, was an exception. Behind the
over-genial theatrical front there was an
elusive simplicity very interesting to go
after.
From some of my subjects I got
nothing but the bare appearance.
Paderewski, the pianist-statesman of
Poland, for instance, was preoccupied f
and received me as though I were a
photographer. My drawing of him was
superficial and worthless. Marconi was
nervous and would not talk. There were
too many women pressing cups of tea on
me to get any real talk about the Life to
Come with Sir Oliver Lodge.
Sometimes my preliminary scoutings
were enough, and I had no need of a
sitting. In other cases it seemed inad-
visable to incur any obligation from a
subject when my advance notes warned
me that the portrait would certainly put
a strain on his vanity.
Had I, for instance, inVited Hewart,
L.C.J., to pose for the drawing of him
I subsequently published, he would have
On this page, a very mixed
bag from Low’s “Bulletin”
caricaturing.
“HAPPY JACK” SC ADD AN,
Premier of W.A. when Low was
in Westralia in 1913.
been justified in resentment. Benevolent
Fate arranged things much better than I
could have done, by bringing us together
face to face without prearrangement in
an otherwise empty Underground rail-
way-carriage travelling to Golders Green
at one-o’clock in the morning.
I was thunderstruck when the Lord
Chief Justice of England, short, portly,
tailed and top-hatted, evidently fresh
from a party, got in at Leicester Square
to pose for me. He did not know it, of
course, but he must have wondered what
the fellow over the way was up to so
industriously behind his newspaper.
Hewart was angered over the drawing,
but less at me than at a bookseller in
the vicinity of the Law Courts who, to
satisfy some fancy of his own, starred
the drawing outside his shop for months.
Hewart forgave me when he found we
were fellow-members of the Savage
Club, which seemed to me a queer
reason.
(H)NE of the first subjects I called on
' s - >/ was Bernard Shaw. I remembered
that he had sent me a kindly postcard
about my Lloyd George book and I felt
good.
Uhe iron fence across the top of his
stairs at the Adelphi looked pretty for-
midable. I was an admirer of the great
man and I had no doubt there were
"GENTLEMAN JIM” CORBETT
(his career was over when Low
drew him, and Jim certainly must
have been good to have then looked
like this).


others, but surely this could not be
necessary.
A solid-looking domestic showed me
in. Shaw was lying on a settee, wearing
fancy slippers, very pleased with himself,
talking to Barry Jackson and another
man about details of the production or
his new play “Saint Joan,” but I did not
pay much attention because I was more
interested in our host.
Peculiar high skull, jutting beard, small
eyes, pinkish bulbous nose, small mouth
with false-looking teeth.
I walked about the room, which
seemed to be well furnished with
portraits of Bernard Shaw. On the table
was a bust of Shaw by Rodin, not too
good. All these works represented a
cocky Shaw, the head standing erect on a
straight spine. When the others left 1
hadn’t been talking to him long before I
began to suspect that he was really a shy
man—that the cockiness was a defensive
fa9ade.
“Why does everyone represent you like
that?” I asked, pointing to a Shaw on the
wall that looked as though it might crow
at any moment.
“That is my public character,” he
answered.
“Even to Rodin?”
“Rodin saw me only for a couple of
hours. He knew nothing about me.”
My opinion of Rodin fell a couple of
points.
That brought Up a European sculptor
who had made a majestic eight-feet-high
marble Shaw some time before, but when
it was finished nobody had known what
to do with it. My suggestion that it
might stand outside a tobacconist’s shop
holding a box of marble cigars was not
very well received. I began to feel a bit
cocky myself, which was nearly always
unfortunate.
.“Well, I’m going to try to get the
modest Shaw,” I said.
THAT, as it happened, was the wrong
thing to say, for it set a social juxta-
position for all subsequent encounters.
From then on he was a bit wary of me as
a potential mocker, and adjusted his
manner accordingly.
For the next year or two Fate seemed
to have arranged that I kept finding my-
self facing or sitting near Shaw at
luncheons and dinners, watching him
giving trouble with his specially prepared
vegetarian and egg dishes.
I could never work it out that eggs
were not life. One day I asked him about
it and he abruptly changed the subject.
It dawned on me then that he was
sensitive to ridicule. I was struck all of
a heap. Who could have imagined it?
Shaw! That explained why I could
never venture a light remark in his
presence without getting something
crusty back.
Once, I recall, when we were both in
the company of some Soviet diplomatists,
merry fellows, they passed around cigars.
Feeling the conversation had been
solemn long enough, I made a light
pleasantry about the Russian Revolution
not being able to call itself a success until
it produced a good cigar.
Shaw shut me up rudely with: “Until
they stopped producing cigars at all, you
mean.”
O-ho, I says to myself, no one else is
going to make a funny crack while you’re
about, hey?
Experimentally I changed my tactics
and adopted the character of a stooge
feeding him with opportunities to exhibit
his own brilliance. All went much
better. When I had learnt that lesson
I had the vast enjoyment of listening to
some priceless Shaw. That man was the
second-best talker I have ever heard, the
first being Wells. But Shaw’s brogue was
easier to listen to than H.G.’s squeak.
It took me quite a while to learn Shaw.
Altogether, reading him over and con-
sidering him, noting his person for
eighteen months, On and off, I made
about fourteen drawings before I
finished-off the final one. Even then it
turned out slightly cocky.
AFTER two years I could be said to
have made some progress towards
settling into London professionally.
Things were becoming more tolerable in
my private social life also. We had
found friends, we began to be invited out
not only to political receptions but to
parties and weekends. Our area of
amicable relations grew as circles
enlarge when one drops a stone into a
pool.
London, the Big City of teeming
millions, was probably more impersonal,
inhospitable and insensitive to the feel-
ings of the overseas stranger in those
days than it is today, thirty years later.
But in its infinite variety was the assurance
of at least an occasional responsive eye.
I, like most people, make friends
mainly upon the response I find in
people’s eyes. A peculiar thing, the eye.
In itself as expressionless an object as
one could find—a white marble with a
colored spot surrounding a smaller black
spot enlarging or diminishing. Yet see
two of these simple objects in holes in
G. B. SHAW
(In this instalment David Low makes yet another Of his brilliant word-portraits out of
his first meetings with Shaw. Caricature is from the “New Statesman senes.)
a face, surmount them by contorting eye-
brows and surround them with skin
©rinkling in accordance with obscure
muscular tensions, and you have the
window of the soul, the key to attraction
and repulsion, love ana hate. Eyes have
a positive effect on me. Under some
eyes I am tongue-tied, inarticulate, stupid.
Other eyes unlock my tongue.
IT was a happy circumstance for me
when I looked Robert Lynd and his
wife Sylvia in the eyes, for jointly they
had not only the Svengali power to evoke
conversation so that everyone felt as
clever a talker as anybody else; but,
what naturally followed, the ability to
provide a run of good company to
appreciate it.
Their quaint old house in Keats Grove,
Hampstead, was in those early ’twenties
when I needed it a friendly house at
which I could always bank on pleasant
meetings.
The long, drooping Robert was a
picturesque figure, corkscrew curl adrift
over the brow of his thin face, chain-
smoking, mumbling soothing Irish sounds
into the depths of his shirt-front. Robert
came from Belfast, Sylvia from Dublin,
and they had no particular interest in
politics except for Robert’s passionate
support of Sinn Fein.
Nevertheless Robert took pleasure in
argument of the fanciful ranging kind
about almost anything, especially current
topics relating to civilisation and e
humanities. He was always on the side
of tolerance, and his view always
prevailed, which was rather remarkable,
since in discussion his voice was apt to
fall steeply in confidential diminuendo
until it became not merely unintelligible
but nigh inaudible.
I observed him closely for a space to
find out how he convinced his opponents,
and 1 came to the conclusion that he did
it by over-agreement-by “helping” the
opposing party to inflate his own case
and then in the softest of tones adding a
‘supporting sub-idea, still presumably
agreed, which quietly exploded it.
The process was perfectly painless and
left everybody pleased and amiable,
especially, of course, Robert, for he was
always unwilling to give the offence even
of flatly exposing another s erro .
Indeed, sometimes this tender considera-
tion was just plain funny. Listen, as 1
did, to this:
Robert: Im reading Zadig. I like
to return to Voltaire.
Friend : “Zadig’s not by Voltaire.”
Robert: “That’s just where you and
* # woman>
j wi tty, a sympathetic hostess,
exc<jpt p y erhaps y for t £ e
minor faults, if
were faults, that she knew too many
poets and jj a( j too man y ideas for playing
g ames jf ft hadn’t been for the infernal
g ames Sylvia loved to organise on this
expertness of hers their parties would
have been perfect. Madeline didn’t mind,
for she enjoyed charades and “panel”
games; but guessing the names of poets
dne has never heard of from lines one
can make neither head nor tail of was
not my idea of joy, so whenever I saw
Sylvia getting that games look in her
e y e 1 used t 0 m ake for the garden,
(To be continued next week)'


Between
Ourselves
’ Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically.
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each weak
mn
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Racing will be pepped-up next
weekend, with holiday fixtures
in the capital cities. At least 14
races will be decided at
Randwick over the two days,
with the £2OOO Challenge Stakes
(six furlongs) and the £2500
Anniversary Handicap (1| mile)
as the chief attractions.
Twenty-two years ago The
Marne, as a three-year-old, won
the Challenge Stakes in I.loi,
which has npt been beaten,
though San Domenico equalled
it in 1950. Several other winners
have recorded I.lo|, so the
Challenge is a true test of speed.
Unless there’s a cyclone or
something, Randwick will be in
such excellent order that new
time could well get into the
records.
• • • •
A. Ward has found the
Challenge a good meal-ticket —
four wins: Apple Bay and
Tarien, and twice on San
Domenico. It’s been even better
for W. Cook—Gay Vista, Gay
Monarch, Felbeam, Yaralla and
Ceesar.
At Canterbury Park on
January 12 New Zealander
Arganda carried 8.12, and is
similarly weighted for the
Challenge. He came from New
Zealand with a tiptop reputation
as a sprinter, and certainly
showed he was above average.
He ran a winning trial at Canter-
bury last Saturday.
Challenge selections: Gay
Vista, 1; Arganda, 2; Mani-
ana, 3.
The Anniversary Handicap—
run next Monday—has been a
good one for favorites, the list
of them since 1946 being:
Codicil (dead-heat; 6 to 4);
Crusader (6 to 4); Transaction
(5 to 2); Persist (3 to 1); and
Prince Delville (2 to 1).
Back in 1938 Hope won the
Anniversary in 2.30, as did
Clever Fox in 1934. About time
something improved on those
figures! Twenty years ago J.
O’Sullivan won the mile-and-a-
half on Mananui—and Jack’s
still riding in top form. Darby
Munro, now a trainer, rode four
winners of the Anniversary.
> Anniversary Handicap selec-
tions : Empire Link, 1 ; Electro,
2; Bay stone, 3.
G. Moore’s riding of five
winners at Randwick last Satur-
day equalled the performances
of- N. Sellwood and W. Cook, in
recent years, and of J. Toohey
earlier. Sellwood’s winners (on
February 1, 1954) were
Farquhar, Prince Cortauld,
Indian Empire, Regoli and
Royal Forest, all from the M.
McCarten stable.
Moore was out of the saddle
lor two months after the Mel-
bourne Cup, but he has ridden
38 winners to date in Sydney this
season, which is- pretty good
going. Anyway, it’s 12 more
than Sellwood (second on the
list) had landed up to time of
writing.
It begins to look as if Royal
Kingdom may yet live up to the
near-record 6500gns. paid for
him as a yearling at the 1955
Randwick sales. He won only
a minor Maiden event at Canter-
bury Park for the purchaser, but
quickly scored a win for the
partnership of three who bought
him. In the Second Novice at
Randwick he was allowed free
rein and scored easily.
Most of the Challenge Stakes
candidates contested Saturday’s
Banjo Paterson Handicap (six
furlongs) at Randwick, but it
was won by Divided Heart, not
entered for next Saturday’s
sprint. Divided Heart won three
races in Brisbane before coming
to Sydney, and made it four on
end in the Randwick event: all
told he had won 20 races in
Queensland. Maniana and Com-
pound, favored runners for the
Challenge, dead-heated a neck
behind Divided Heart.
Randwick trainer Fil Allotta,
whose horses Bolingbroke,
Queensberry, Arden and Prince
Charter have shown excellent
winning-form at recent fixtures,
paid 400gns. for the last-named
at the Randwick yearling-sales in
1955. Prince Charter scrambled
home in a Canterbury Park
Maiden, and again won at Rand-
wick on Saturday, when he
defeated Dipso and Star Leader
in Novice company. By Prince
Goldsborough (imp.), and bred
by Alec Higgins at his Piercefield
stud, Muswellbrook (N.S.W.),
Prince Charter is from Hyasha,
a half-sister to Veiled Art, a
winner of the A.J.C. Villiers.
Arden, whose first win was in
the A.J.C. Three - year - old
Maiden, is a Delville Wood
(imp.) colt from Rose Marie by
Midstream (imp.). He should
develop into a useful middle-
distance performer.
New Light and Malvern Hall,
members of the team of Rand-
wick trainer C. Rolls, were taken
to Melbourne for the Moonee
Valley meeting on Saturday. New
Light won the Second Niddrie
Handicap by four lengths,
starting at odds-on, but Malvern
Hall, warm favorite for the
Argyle Handicap, missed a place.
It was thought that New Light
would be extended by a com-
paratively unknown Sydney filly,
Bright Circle, who was backed
to second-favoritism, but she was
playful at the start—her first in
a race—and this cost her what-
ever chance she may have had.
She finished fourth, but she’s
one to remember.
Had N. Sellwood Von the
Wellington Cup on the well-
fancied Cardigan, instead of
being nosed out of first-money
by Sombrero, ridden by pro-
minent New Zealand horseman
W. J. Broughton, he would have
made his trip across the Tasman
a real business-holiday visit. Sir
Willoughby Norrie races
Cardigan, a four-year-old by
Ruthless (imp.) from Proven by
Solicitor General (imp.).
Sombrero, who ran race-record
time (3.21) for the two-miles, is
a six-year-old entire by Someo
(imp.) from Seropuri.
Of the 131 lots sold on the
first day of the New Zealand
sales of yearlings, Australian
buyers secured 64, for 53,000
guineas. The day’s average was
670gns. Top price, 3100gns., was
paid for a Gabador (imp.) colt,
whose dam, Eleuthera (imp.), a
good-class sprinter in England,
is by Blue Peter from Theia by
Hyperion. Breeder W. Fisher,
ra stU( *> P a nmure, sold
three of the progeny of Gabador
for a total of 7200gns.
* * *
A mud-heap at Harold Park
on Saturday night nevertheless
permitted some brilliant trotting.
The efforts of Mineral Spring
and Para Rip, without doubt the
best at their respective gaits in
the land, were scintillating.
Bondi John, Sky High and Any-
time won heats of the Spring
Handicap, and go in against
tough opposition in next week’s
final—last week’s winners, First
Variety, Miniature Bill and King
Ranji will keep them at it.
Whatever beats First Variety in
his present form will win the
final.
Fresh from his Free-for-All
victory last week, Para Rip went
out on Saturday night after his
fourth Trotters’ Cup; but, on
the back mark of 96yds., he was
meeting his opponents on much
worse terms than in the previous
week. Sprinting from last to a
prominent position at the bell,
he collared the Victorian, Novel
Count, with the wily Alf Phillis
up, at the top of the straight;
struggled gallantly with him in
the stretch; beat him in a
photo. It was a magnificent per-
formance by a trotting
phenomenon.
Mineral Spring went out
short-priced favorite in the
Pacers’ Free-for-All, but he had
some stout opposition: old rival
Van Hall, who had tossed him
under the exact same conditions
at their last get-together ; Active
Ayr, who’d skittled a Flying
Mile field the previous week;
Port Logan, the last Spring Cup
on his mantelpiece ; Pacing Gift,
a likely stepper from Melbourne.
Mineral Spring cruised to a
good position early, but when
he should have been setting
about leaving the field, he was in
a hopeless box: the grey Active
Ayr raced clear; the field chased
him; Van Hall set after him.
Then, when Van Hall looked just
about to have the wood on the
grey, Adams got the big brown
clear. He finished with an
unbelievable burst; the judge
declared for him in a photo.
Champion Westralian pacer
Beau Don has earned himself a
breather before he’s asked to
take on the champs in the Inter-
Dominion at the end of
February. Fourth from a hard
mark in the W.A. Cup, the
brown was whisked to the front
by driver Foy in the New Year
Handicap, caught the dawdlers
napping, and stayed there for a
nice win from Anthony Hall and
Magic Flute. An eight-year-
old, Beau Don has won 33 races
from 73 starts, netting £21,190 in
stakes. On 24yds. in the Inter-
Dominion series, he’s on a tough
mark ; but he’s got the ability to
tickle them up, especially on his
home-ground.
+ +
No other professional tennis-
matches of recent years in Aus-
tralia have aroused the interest
of the four Rosewall-Gonzales
clashes in Melbourne and
Sydney. By the measure of his
play in his first Sydney game
anyway, Gonzales has a definite
edge on Rosewall, as he had
last year on Trabert, and he
leads by 3-1. But Rosewall, the
No. 1 classicist of today, is
plucky, and has the ground-
strokes and a strengthening
service, and could well be giving
Gonzales more of a run for the
money involved long before the
last of their 100 games. (And,
whatever anyone may think
about professional tennis, Gon-
zales and Rosewall both give
very passable imitations of being
flat-out all the time.)
• • • •
Professional tennis is becoming
more firmly established in Aus-
tralia —for instance, there is the
Ampol professional tourney to
be held in Sydney soon; and
there should be room for both
the amateur and professional
games. Open tournaments, how-
ever, are probably undesirable
for several reasons. It’s hard to
conceive of Wimbledon, the
traditional home of amateur
tennis, ever staging an Open
tournament.
* * *
John Devitt, silver-medal
winner, behind Henricks, in the
100-metres freestyle swim at the
Melbourne Olympics, won the
N.S.W. 110yds. freestyle on
Saturday night, in Australian-
record time (55.25ec.). Last year
he finished second to Gary
Chapman, .- who in turn was
second this year Henricks
didn’t start either time. So
Devitt wins his first senior title,
after filling a greater proportion
of second-places, usually- to
Henricks, than is often the fate
of an athlete of his calibre.
* * *
Ken Mackay, in making his
84 against S.A. in Brisbane
recently, batted with a badly
jarred hand —“the result of too
much batting,” he said. Those
who’ve been bowling hopelessly
at that wide bat of his will
readily agree that there’d be no
point in looking further for a
reason for his injury. Up to that
innings “Slasher” had made 821
runs in first-class cricket this year
at an average of 82.1, and, of
course, his innings were never
short ones. His lowest score in
those 10 innings was 38, and
"You used to LIKE skylarking on the beach
with me, Arnold.”
there were no not-outs among
them, to help the average along.
(Mackay, also a fair bowler, took
the bowling honors, 5-15, in
S.A.’s second innings, to give
Q. a win outright.)
“K.R.”: A cricket question
posed by a Sydney paper—A
'‘rabbit,” batting with, say,
Bradman or some other run-
getting champion, skies the ball
to mid-off, who, noting that
Bradman has left his crease, takes
the catch but whips it straight
to the bowler, the wicket
is broke.n and an appeal is made
for Bradman’s dismissal, run-
out ; no appeal is made for the
catch. Which batsman is out?
Should the run-out be adjudi-
cated upon? The newspaper
raising the question said that no
answer is provided in the rules ;
and certainly such a contingency
is not specifically dealt with. But
I think there can be only one
answer as to who’s out. Rule
25 on “Dead ball” covers it.
This rule provides a batsman’s
dismissal as one cause for the
ball becoming “dead” and a
catch automatically dismisses the
man who hit it. (An appeal for a
catch only becomes necessary
when there is a doubt as to
whether the bat hit or touched
the ball, or whether it was a
“bump-ball.”) The ball in the
hypothetical example cannot
possibly be in play when mid-
off throws it to the bowler.
»
“Kejokada”: When South
African batsman Russell Endean
was given out “handled the ball”
in the second Test against
England recently when he
stopped by hand a ball from
Laker from hitting his wicket, I
wondered was it right that the
bowler was not given the credit.
But Rule 36, Note 2 expressly
(but surely at times unfairly)
provides that he does not get it.
Endean was also concerned in a
similar incident in the fifth Test
between England and South
Africa in England in 1951. A
ball from off-spinner Athol
Rowan caught Hutton, then
on , 27 > Just below the wrist
and shot mto the air, and
ndean, who was ’keeping,
oashed round to make the catch
tfut Hutton swatted backhand,
and hit the ball out of reach.
“ a PP ea l be was given out
obstructing the field,”
undoubtedly the correct decision.
(The bowler does not get the
credit here, either). There’s no
question of sportsmanship ; both
batsmen would have acted
instinctively, without thought,
on the spur of the moment.
In the fourth Test against West
Indies in 1951-52 Doug Ring and
Bill Johnston came together for
the last wicket with 38 runs still
needed by Australia, when most
people had conceded victory to
Goddard and Co. But, as is now
written in cricket history, the
two Richmond bowlers did it,
Ring (32 not-out) getting most
of 'em. The other day, in
Melbourne pennapt-cricket,
Richmond needed 40 to get
against South Melb. when Ring
was joined by last-man Jack
Jury. Yes, they got #he 40,
Ring making 34. As a matter
of interest, though Ring got most
of the runs in both partnerships,
he didn’t make the winning hit
either time.
The Australian team for N.Z.
leaves on Feb. 14 and will play
12 matches. Three will be
“unofficial” Tests. Odd that
Australia and N.Z. are the only
two cricketing countries which
don't play Tests against one
another. Actually, one Test only
has been played—in March,
1946, when Australia had an
easy win.
* * *
“Dib”: Baseball is steadily
gaining adherents in this country.
Now that visiting American
teams have played night-matches,
much more interest is being
shown. Not long ago Mel-
bourne scored terrific night
attendances for the sport. Now
the time is fast approaching
when a series of matches in
daylight against an American
team on a big Sydney sports-
ground should pay handsome
dividends, not only financially,
but in publicity, bringing many
more fans and players for this
mushrooming sport in Australia.
Heresy as it may seem to say so,
baseball could eventually rival
cricket as a national game here.
* *
“H.T.W.”: Re that bowls
“dream shot” (B. 9/l/’57), here
is a remarkable coincidence. On
Dec. 20 last year Frank. Billing,
of Toorak club (Adelaide), was
playing a singles game (four
bowls, of course) in a round of
the club-championship. In one
end his first bowl was a toucher
and ran into the ditch; his
second, also a toucher, went into
the ditch and took the kitty with
it, the three being together, and
unbeatable. Up to this stage the
result was identical with that
described by “Skip.” Billing’s
third bowl was another counter,
stopping on the edge of the
green above the kitty. All his
opponent could do was to draw
the fourth shot.


from a brand-new security TO-DAY!
£s's'-
■
HI
m §§
m
m
■ H
M
m
: £
THE CITY OF
NEWCASTLE
I Invites you to gain this
Guaranteed Income for 5 years or more!
Most Australians know that Newcastle,
the Pittsburgh of the South Pacific, is
making tremendous advances in both
population and industrial importance.
This is why the City of Newcastle can
offer you this exceptionally profitable
investment opportunity*. Newcastle’s go-
ahead Electricity Supply Department —
better known as Nesca requires
£200,000 to finance urgently needed
extensions to its distribution system. As
Nesca serves 230,000 people in Greater
Newcastle and five Shires between Lake
Macquarie and the North Coast, every
investment will assist both industrial and
rural production.
Newcastle is the right place to make
money—and the Loan is your best oppor-
tunity to get in on the “ground floor.”
You can invest now at any Common-
wealth Trading Bank, through a Stock-
broker, at the City Hall, or Nesca House.
LOAN FACTS
AND FIGURES
INTEREST is £5/5/- per cent for optional terms of 5,10 or 20 years.
Half-yearly interest: can be credited to any bank account you wish.
SECURITY is Council’s income, which exceeded £7,000,000 in 1956.
THE LOAN is an Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.
CLOSING DATE — not later than sth February, 1957.
Australia’s newest security is the
mmmmmm—M
CITY OF NEWCASTLE LOAN
Underwriters:
Ernest L. Davis & Co., Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange .
/. H. Clack & Company, Members of the Newcastle Stock Exchange .
1 ’ " " ' ’ ’ - - . . V’’ ■. v t .. . ' ■ .
NCL3.-5Z
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Handy Guide to Trees, by
Rutherford Pratt, and Donald of
China■ —6454.
To buy Froissart’s Chronicles,
translated by Lord Berners. 6453.
Information Sought
Words of the verse, written by
William Tainsh, that was Jttng to ,
“Waltzing Matilda” as the Song of
Farewell ” at the closing-ceremony of
the Olympic Games?
Homeward, homeward, soon you will be
going now ;
Momok wonargo ora go-yai.
Joy of our meeting, pain of our parting,
Shine in our eyes as we bid you good-bye.
Refrain.
Good-bye, Olympians ! Good-bye,
Olympians!
(On comes the evening, west goes the
Roll up your swags and pack them full
of memories,
Fair be the wind as you speed on your
way.
Blessings attend you, Fortune befriend
you,
All good go with you over the sea.
May the song of fathers —“Will ye no
come back again?”—
Sing in your hearts thro’ the years yet
to be.
Refrain.
Come to Australia, back to Australia
(Mist on the hills and the sun breaking
through.)
With the sliprails down and the billy
* boiling merrily,
Wide open arms will be waiting tor
you.
(The words in italics are aboriginal
words meaning “Farewell, brother.
By and by come back.”)
* * * *
(1) A simple method of home-
tanning fox-skins so as to make rugs
or furs? (2) Given a competent
knowledge of the dressmaking and
tailoring trade, how to make the
prepared skins into a cape or coal .
(1) Give the skins a quick rinse
in cold water, remove all tat and
bits of flesh, shake out, then immerse
in a solution prepared as follows:
Mix equal parts of bran and sole
water in sufficient quantity to covei
the skins, and let them stand in it loi
24 hours. Remove, wash clean, and
lightly scrape off unwanted pieces.
In lgal. hot water dissolve lib. alum
and ilb. salt; allow to cool to hand-
temperature ; immerse the skins m
this for 24 hours; then dry them
partially by rubbing. Immerse again
in a mixture of oatmeal and warm
water for 24 hours, partially dry i n
the shade, and finally rub dry—when
they should be soft and clean. (2)
Choose a simple pattern, using as
few separate pieces as possible, and
in a size larger than would be used
for cloth, to allow for the bulk ot
the skins and linings, Cut-out with
the hair running downwards in all
pieces, placing the best skins in the
most conspicuous parts of the
garment. The sewing is rather an
art, and should be done by hand.
Use a waxed-linen thread if possible,
and top-sew all seams—not too
tightly. Placing fur for fur, push
the fur inwards with the needle when
it obtrudes, so that the skm-part only
is sewn. The lining should be cut
from the same pattern, and slip-
stitched in place after being joined-up
by machine. Allow an ample pleat
here and there such as tailors use in
women’s coats. If the skins are good,
they should be sent to a furrier; it
takes much experience to tan and
make-up a garment of acceptable
appearance. But a rough, warm coat
is within the scope of the home-
worker with time to spare on it.
* * * *
(1 ) How many Davis Cup rounds
did tennis-player Pane ho Gonzales
play in ? (2) What major titles did
he win as an amateur? (3) When did
he turn professional?
(1) Only one round, the 1949
challenge-round at Forest Hills, when
USA. defeated Australia 4-1, losing
the doubles. Gonzales beat Sedgman
in the second singles 8-6, 6-4, 9-7, and,
in the last match, Sid well 6-1, 6-3,
6-3. (2) He was twice U.S. national
champion. In 1948 he defeated
Sturgess, of South Africa, in straight
sets 6-2, 6-3, 14-12, and retained
his’title in 1949 by defeating Ted
Schroeder in a marathon game, 16-18,
2-6, 6-1, 6-2, 6-4. (3) Sept., 1949, a
fortnight after his winning bf the
U.S. title for the second time.
Brief Answers
C.H.D.: Write S. G. White, 30
Gosvenor-street, Sydney C.H.:
Information on the “gold-cradle” is
contained in the 1954 edition of the
“Prospectors’ Guide, New South
Wales” (PP- 118-129), available from
the N.S.W. Department of Mines
(Loftus-street, Sydney) or at the
office of any warden’s clerk in
NS.W.; price, 2s. 6d. (post, 5d.)
L. 8.: Write Messrs. Berkelouw, 38
King-street, Sydney R.G.F.: A
worth-while opinion on the legality
or otherwise of your union’s building-
levy cannot be given without our
seeing the registered rules of the
union. Questions involved are: (1)
whether the rules empower it to make
such a levy and, if so, (2) whether
the levy was made in accordance with
the rules.... A.P.: (1) President
(Dwight David) Eisenhower was
born in Dennison, Texas, on Oct. 14,
1890. He married Mamie Geneva
Doud in Denver, Colorado, in 1916.
They have one son, John, now an
officer in the U.S. Army. Eisenhower
was in Europe until Novembei, 1945,
when he returned to Washington to
become Chief of Staff of the U.S.
Army. He retired from the post in
1948, to become President ol
Columbia University in New York
City. (2) Adlai Ewing Stevenson was
bom in Los Angeles California, on
Feb. 5, 1900. His father had at one
time been Secretary of State tor
Illinois; his grandfather was Vice-
President of the U.S. during the
second term of President .Grover
Cleveland. Stevenson was in 1941
Special Assistant to the Secretary ot
the Navy; in 1943, chief of a
mission to Italy to help develop a
programme for that country s social
and economic rehabilitation; in 1944,
member of a special War Depart-
ment mission to several European
countries; in 1945, Special Assistant
to the Secretary of State, press-
spokesman for the U.S. delegation
at the conference on international
organisation at San Francisco, and
was U.S. Minister to the United
Nations Preparatory Commission in
London—he was later senior adviser
to the American delegation at the
first U.N. General Assembly and
alternate U.S. delegate to the
Assembly in 1946 and 1947. He first
sought elective office in 1948, when
he received the largest number ot
votes ever by any candidate to become
Governor of Illinois. He was the
Democratic party’s nominee in 1952
and 1956 8.K.: The following are
disregarded in the computation of
property in the means-test: the value
of home, furniture and personal
effects, The surrender-value (up to
£750) of any life-assurance policies,
the capital value of any life-interest,
annuity or contingent interest, the
value of any property from the estate
of a deceased person which has not
been received, and the amount of
any Commonwealth war-gratuity.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor ; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
W.F.C.: “The House on Hang-
man’s Hill,” full of gloom, and fog,
and dying old men, rattling chains
and shrieks in the night, almost
ruined the festive season for u 5....
F.A.8.: Incomplete sort of yarn, but
has the germ of a good idea. Put
more body in it and resubmit....
F.E.: Not paying our good money
for verse beginning:
The long years come and vanish
And the* weaker drinkers die;
Yet still Boozer Bill doth banish
All cares with rum and rye.
H.T.: Great Heavens! But surely
there is a limit to the folly of
maids! ... .S.A.M.: Your story of the
smouldering passion of love” was too
luscious altogether for The Bulletin.
W.L.E.: There is a very poor
demand for “lonely graves ” or any
other sort of graves, in this journal.
J.S.E.: It could be a masterpiece,
but, since your atrocious handwriting
is undecipherable, we cannot tell.
M.L.: Don’t want stories which
already have seen print. _ .J.S.R.:
When last sighted Madame Olivia, the
“strange and mysterious opeiatic
artiste” who “blazed with volcanic
fire,” was on her way back to a
prosaic suburban address... . H.M..
Never send verses with varioium
readings. Poets who don’t know
which are their best lines are not
p0et5....A.8.0’8.: Returning them,
but it seems cruelty to keep them
from their rest in the w.p.b. •• • •
W.S.: Will try to Carry on without
your hymn in praise of park-dossers.
But dossers in parks, as rule ’tis found,
Are sometimes much reviled,
And frequent get the blame that s due
To the untamed, wild child.
F.F.: You, perhaps, know a lot
about cattle-dogs; but you don’t
make your yarn real... .E.M.: lhe
only welcome phrase in your yarn
was “The End”... .C.AJ.: Not bad,
considering you’re “only 14. bull,
we have to consider readers who are
more than 14....P,A.: As to your
conundrum:
If sunset makes the heart feel sad,
As if we have seen a ghost
And sunrise makes the heart feel glad
Why look we on the sunset most?
The answer is probably because we’re
“The V'n of it!” but what about
we handed out Id.
deficient postage? ....8.M.: Story
tb j n but you have observation
and SOl^e knowledge of character-
drawin„ j.p. ; it certainly has a
ho mely toU ch:
„ What means those bot tles round our
floor?”
The good wife asked as if m gnef.
And voices answered with a r°ar
F.McM.: Monotony is the most
ifwell
T—,
....P.D.: Sincere, rough work, with
{he usual glaring tec hmcal faults of
the beginner... .G.F.J.: It seems to
be a parody on “Sally in Our
AUey »._
"awtt tsu —
... .c. 8.: Once again we Implore you
not to W!r ite on both sides ot the
aper 8 .P.: It rambles in an
unex citing fashion to the goal and
neg i ects to mention how it got there,
_ £ C-S . F . ; Can’t use the story about
the reckless, beautiful squatters
daug hter who spurns the love of the
iackeroo, and drives off alone to the
country show where she is taken in
charge of and kissed and squeezed
by a duke disguised as a rough gipsy,
....L.P.L.: Rather a dull wail for a
co,ta e e with roses around the door.


ftcuUi in itie
Fuiuf*e
\
k
One Australian industry that invites the
boldest expansion, free of any thoughts of quotas
or surplus production, is Cotton.
Those who enter it can go in confidently. The
country’s consumption of cotton, in raw and in
piece goods, is enormous, and only a very small
fraction of our requirement is produced in
Australia; most of it is imported at heavy cost in
sterling and dollars.
So it interested me to see, on a recent visit
to Dalby, on Queensland’s Darling Downs, many
of the wheat farmers turning to cotton as a crop.
The suitability of the soil has been established,
and the operation is far beyond the pilot stage.
The price the 'farmers are getting is paying them
to do it
Moreover, the Commonwealth has agreed to
pay a minimum of 14d. a lb. for seed cotton for
the 1957 and 1958 seasons, and is to work out a
long-term programme of expansion, on a report'
to be supplied by the Bureau of Agricultural
Economics.
The prospect for Australian cotton at last,
after many fluctuating years, is so bright that I
have been wondering whether it might be extended
to other regions; say, to drier areas of northern
New South Wales.
It is keyed to irrigation, to a point. Last
year in Arizona—one of the driest States of
America, and also one of the best watered, with
a chain of giant dams and reservoirs—l saw it as
a flourishing industry.
In other years, when the Australian industry
faltered, there were not the means of mechanical
harvesting that we have today; just as, at the
retailing end, there was no such material as a
cotton that requires no ironing!
The point is that we need the cotton. We
can grow it increasingly, and a home market is
assured for many years. The rest of the story is up
to ourselves.
y
COMMUNIST
INFILTRATION OF
CATHOLIC CHURCH
An American Bishop, the
Most Reverend Cuthbert
O’Gara has revealed that
Communism has penetrated
the Church in America. He
sees corroding elements in
Catholic classrooms and lecture
halls and EVEN IN
CATHOLIC PAPERS AND
PERIODICALS!
Bishop O’Gara’s electrify-
ing speech, suppressed in
most parts of the world, now
available in the current League
of Rights Intelligence Survey,
a monthly digest of the facts
behind the news, £2 2s, a year.
Order from:
THE VICTORIAN
LEAGUE OF RIGHTS
Box 1052 J, G.P.0., Melbourne.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
AMERICA AND THE MIDDLE EAST
pRESS-REACTION to
America’s assumption of
responsibility in the Middle East
has, as the following sampling
indicates, varied from relief- —in
papers which, like London
Economist,” have maintained
that it is high time Uncle Sam
picked up the ball in the M.E.—
to the trenchant summary in
London “Time and Tide” by
John Connell, for long a strong
critic of the slow but steady
abandonment of Empire:
London “Economist” : “What
appears clear is that the makers
of American policy have at last
resolved that the Middle East
can no longer safely remain as
a hiatus in the American system
of alliances and power positions
which stretches round most of
the world. Spectators in London
will feel that it is high time—
as indeed it is. They will wish,
resentfully, that the American
Government could have worked
its way round to this conclusion
six months ago, before British
Middle Eastern policy had
reached its present state of
paralysis. To reflect that no such
American initiative would have
been politically possible six
months ago is no great consola-
tion. Perhaps it needed some-
thing as shocking as the British
disaster of November to force
a drastic revision on Wash-
ington ; and those who claim
to see in that some post facto
justification for the late Suez
adventure can draw what
comfort they can from it—
though it is a queer sort of
policy for British power to draw
American power in by first
destroying itself.”
% * %
London “ Spectator” : “The
term ‘Eisenhower doctrine’ is
misleading. The Monroe doc-
trine was a general statement of
policy by a nation warning other
countries not to interfere in a
continent in which it was the
major Power. The Truman doc-
trine of containment, whether
applied to Formosa or Greece
and Turkey, was simply an offer
of protection to small friendly
Powers by a big Power which
was already allied to them.
President Eisenhower’s new
move is much more like the
British offer of guarantees
against German aggression to a
number of States in 1939, when
the fact of acceptance automati-
cally put the States concerned
into the category of enemies of
the Third Reich.
“In other words the American
offer of aid and protection
against ‘Soviet subversion’ is
bound to turn out to be really
a means of separating the sheep
from the goats, of forcing the
Arab States to make up their
minds where they stand.”
The same : “Kai Lung once
remarked that there are few
situations in life that cannot be
settled either by suicide, a bag
of gold, or by thrusting a des-
pised antagonist over the edge
of a precipice on a dark night.
After the failure of the Anglo-
French suicide-pact, President
Eisenhower has now jingled the
bag of gold, while hinting that
he is ready to use the third
alternative, if necessary. The
Middle East may continue, how-
ever, to prove resistant even to
the best-tried panaceas.”
London “Financial Times":
“When one looks at the
problems of the Middle East it
can be seen that they will not
be solved by a simple applica-
tion of aid and (military
guarantees. In the first place
there is the problem of Israel.
Unless some lasting settlement
of the Israel question can be
achieved there will be no secure
peace in the Middle East and no
end to the arms-race which has
prevented the improvement of
the economies of the area.
“Even if that is achieved there
will still be other problems of
the utmost gravity to be over-
come. To say the least, we do
not seem to be any nearer to a
settlement for the long-term
future of the Suez Canal. Any
policy which leaves it to Egypt
to decide what countries should
have the right to navigate the
canal would be quite intoler-
able to America’s allies and
would give Russia a strong
diplomatic advantage.
“There is also the contrast
between the oil-rich countries
of Persia, Irak, Kuwait and
Saudi-Arabia and the oil-poor
countries such as Egypt and
Syria.
“The great difficulty for the
United States is that the two
countries which need most aid
are also the two with the
strongest affiliations to Russia.
It is possible that a large dollar-
aid to Syria would change the
attitude of the Syrian Govern-
ment, but it seems a doubtful
gamble. Colonel Nasser has
never responded eagerly to
overtures of friendship. The
third country in need of aid is
Jordan ; with a large refugee-
population and quite arbitrary
boundaries, Jordan seems nowa-
days to be an almost unwork-
able State.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph":
“The trouble surely is that ten-
sions in the Middle East offer
little opportunity for the honest
broker. The price of Arab
confidence is Israeli enmity and
vice versa. There seems to be
no way of influencing events in
the Middle East except by
taking sides. But if the United
States were to do so the
aggrieved party would inevitably
turn to the Soviet Union. While
Mr. Dulles’s New Year resolve
is to be welcomed as a sign of
repentance about the past, it is
still far too early to feel confi-
dence that American policy will
prove much more successful in
the future.”
“New York Times”: “The
fact that Middle Eastern pro-
blems are so complex and diffi-
cult is no argument for avoiding
decisions On the contrary.
Any analyst of Middle Eastern
affairs over the past two or
three years, and especially from
that crucial day in September,
1955, when President Nasser of
Egypt made his arms deal with
the Soviet Union, has to agree
that a shirking of, responsibility
and decision on the part of the
United States has led to a snow-
balling of the problems to be
faced in the area. The longer
the United States waits to
formulate a strong and valid
Amsterdam “De Volkskrant ”
“ATTACK ON THE WINTER PALACE OF THE
SOVIET TSARS"
policy for the Middle East the
greater the problems become
and the stronger Russia gets in
the area.”
The same: “Nothing, in the
present state of the world, is or
can be a substitute for military
strength. That is why the news
that President Eisenhower is
contemplating the authority to
employ our strength quickly and
effectively makes sense. It is
right and, for us [America],
necessary that this military
strength be at the service of
democratic principles. There-
fore, we need, above all, a clear,
firm policy.
“It has become a common-
place of history that if Kaiser
Wilhelm and Adolf Hitler knew
the United States would go to
war against them if its vital
interests were threatened we
might have avoided the World
Wars. Let us make it clear to
Russia that we will not and
cannot stand for her dominance
of the Middle East. After all,
that is exactly what we have
done for Western Europe, for
Greece and Turkey and for
Taiwan.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“This plan will not, of itself,
solve the problems of the Middle
East. But it can provide a
shield behind which just and
equitable solutions can be
reached. It will be the great
first step toward establishing a
climate in which Mid-Eastern
questions can be discussed on
their merits, without the
'ominous shadow of Soviet inter-
vention. It will offer a safe-
guard against any adventures
that the men in the Kremlin
might take out of desperation,
to turn the eyes of their own
people away from pressing
troubles and dreams of freedom.
It will make concrete and firm
the prestige which the United
States has acquired in Asia and
Africa by its recent diplomacy,
and reassure Europeans that the
Middle East —upon which they
depend for oil and trade —will
not be tamely surrendered to
Red Imperialism.”
* * *
John Connell, in London
“Time and Tide”: “In Novem-
ber at vast effort and cost we
[Britain], supported to the hilt
by the French, did our best to
repossess ourselves of that which
we had so incontinently
abandoned two years before.
Our Government made what still
seems to me disingenuous and
uncandid explanations of and
excuses for • an action which
could have been proclaimed
vigorously and truthfully for
what it was —sheer, imperative
self-defence. In two brief years,
however, the Government and
the majority of the electorate
had discovered the magnitude
of the folly of evacuating Suez.
“Then, through a welter of
humiliation such as this country
has not suffered since the time
of Lord North, we were com-
pelled to give up the attempt we
had made and to withdraw in
circumstances which generations
will recall with shame. And
now, before the Opposition has
stopped howling for a Select
Committee of Inquiry, the
Government of the United States
makes its preliminary announce-
ments of its great new policy for
the Middle East.
“To those who have experi-
enced the whole misery and
recognised the full consequences
of the withdrawals and abdica-
tions of the past 10 years—
Burma, India, Palestine, Abadan,
the Sudan, in particular—this
is neither an unfamiliar nor an
unexpected tactic. To wax
indignant about it would be
foolish and purposeless, and the
least necessary or helpful atti-
tude of all is a shrill anti-
Americanism.
“But if we did not retreat and
leave the vacuum behind us
there would be no need for the
Americans to come in and fill
it. We, just as much as the
Americans, have been deluded
by this preposterous and mis-
chievous myth that for Britain
(or France) to exercise responsi-
bility and leadership anywhere
in the world is ‘colonialism,’ but
for the United States to take
our place—when we have been
chivvied and nagged out of it—
is ‘a bold and progressive
approach to the problems of the
defence of the free world.’
“So now we are given notice
of the ‘dramatic idea’ that the
President should seek broad
authority from Congress to use
the military power of the United
States against any Russian acts
of aggression in the Middle East;
allied to it, of course and
inevitably, will be assurances
of large-scale economic aid.
“The British and the French
Governments may perhaps be
permitted the mordant observa-
tion that this is where they came
in. For months and for years, in
face not of open Russian
aggression but of the ruthless
exploitation of the instability,
nationalist fever, xenophobia and


ENTHUSIASTIC FARMERS EVERYWHERE ARE SAYING
Ampol for Me!
.
m
m
■
■
mmm
m
m
mmm
■
■
Sir Waiter Merriman (second from left) being congratulated by one of
the three judges after winning the Merino Ram Grand Championship.
Sir Walter says: “l have used Ampol Products on my several properties for
years and am convinced that not only Ampol Motor Spirit, but Ampol Kerosines,
Distillate and Oils meet the high standards required by the Primary Producing Indus-
try. I find that Ampol’s renowned Service extends beyond their Service Stations
to “The Man on the Land” through the friendly efficiency of their Country Agents ”
Use the best
• • •
Australia's own
*
%
Oi
y Q
POWER KEROSINE
Plus Ampol Distillate • Lighting Kerosine
• Petrol and a full range of farm lubricants.
4.FM.18.33
moral and spiritual anarchy ol
most of the Middle Eastern
countries, they have striven, by
one means or another, to retain
a shred of their pledged respon-
sibility and their authority. Every
effort that they have made has
been dismissed by the State
Department as ‘colonialism.’
“Now comes the climactic
moment, when ‘colonialism’ has
suffered its most resounding and
probably its final defeat; lest
worse befall, the United States
must put something into the
noisy, dirty void which remains.
What is it to be? Money —lots
and lots and lots of money
for the Egyptians, the Syrians
and the Jordanians, since they
have swallowed up the millions
oi British and French interests,
loans and gifts which they have
been given over the years ; and
the suggestion of the use of
U.S. military power. American
garrisons in Amman or Aleppo?
In Ismailia or Kasr-el-Nil
Barracks? In Haifa and Sara-
fand? American ships and air-
craft based on Cyprus?
“In July, 1954 [in a letter to
“Time and Tide”], I said:
“ ‘At each successive milestone
on this long but swift road of
abdication and humiliation, it is
necessary that those who believe
the whole process to be disastrous
to Britain and to the world
should make their defiant stand
for what they know to be right.
“Well, this is a good many
milestones nearer the end and in
defiance I at least must turn and
stand again.”
The British
Commonwealth
Commenting on the Queen’s
Christmas message—in which
she referred to the British
Commonwealth of Nations as
“one of the most hopeful and
imaginative experiments in inter-
national affairs that the world
has ever seen” —“New York
Times” noted that “it might be
argued that the links which hold
the eight nations [of the
Commonwealth] together are so
loose that they can take any
strain”:
“Not even the monarchy is
today a bond of union in any but
the vaguest sense. Geographic,
economic, cultural and ethnical
interests are so diverse that the
Commonwealth still and always
defies any precise definition. Yet
it exists, and Queen Elizabeth
did not exaggerate its importance
or hopefulness:
“A common history, with its
roots in Anglo-Saxon traditions
of the rule of law, freedom and
democracy, common ideals and
habits of {hought, mutual under-
standing and confidence and,
above all, common interests —
these are what hold the Common-
wealth together even ydien
crises like the Suez incident
threaten to tear it apart. In fact,
the Commonwealth is soon to
grow larger with the admission
in March, 1957, of the Gold
Coast.
“And that will be just short of
a century since Queen Victoria
became Empress of India. From
Queen Victoria to Queen Eliza-
beth, from Empire to Common-
wealth has been a long, hard
journey. Some would say it
was downhill, but there were
peaks of greatness whose heights
few other people in history have
touched.”
Commenting on the “N. Y.
Times” editorial, Colonel
W. W. Leggatt, Victorian Agent-
General in London, writes
in a letter to “Yorkshire Post”
that, between Britain and Aus-
tralia, the “biggest common
interest is trade”:
“More British exports go to
Australia than to any other
sinele market; Australia sends
moire to the Mother Country
than anywhere else. But times
change, and as Australia
expands industrially, so more and
more of the goods she needs are
produced in her own cities.
“This is a threat to British
businessmen: it is also an oppor-
tunity. A whole new market is
waiting to be developed.
Already we are seeing, month by
month, more American firms
opening factories —particularly
in Victoria, which is expanding
industrially faster than any other
part of the Commonwealth. The
Americans realise that the way
to capture a market is to produce
the goods it needs on the spot.
“What the Americans can do,
the British can do, too.
“The alternative is that Britain
will lose not only her markets,
but also the dominant position
in her own Commonwealth. To
meet the challenge, British
manufacturers must establish
more factories in cities like Mel-
bourne. In this way alone can
the British people show that
they still understand what is
meant by the common interests
which bind our two nations
together.”
Suez
London “Financial Times ’
editorial comment on the state-
ment by United Nations repre-
sentative General Wheeler that
he [Wheeler] would tell the
Egyptian Government when it
[the canal] was safe for naviga-
tion and then “it is up to them
to decide when to open the
canal”:
“It is, of course, not ‘up to’
the Egyptian Government to
deny or grant passage to ships
through Suez at its whim. No
nation has taken so extreme a
position as this. It is doubtful
whether the Egyptian dictator
himself has even stated the claim
so openly that the canal is first
and foremost an Egyptian ditch
and only secondarily an inter-
national waterway.
“If this is the way in which
the United Nations representa-
tives consider it necessary to
assert their respect for Egyptian
sovereignty, then the outlook is
black indeed.
“The atmosphere that has
been created by now, in fact,
tends to encourage the wildest
irresponsibility and intransigence
among the politicians of the
Middle East.
“What, for example, could be
more extraordinary than the
view expressed by the Syrian
Foreign Minister that his country
has the right to blow up the Irak
Petroleum Company’s pipelines
whenever he disapproves of
British policy in the Middle
East? He asserted that the
destruction of the pipes was an
act done ‘in defence of our [that
is, Syria’s] independence,’ so that
there was no obligation on his
Government to meet any part of
the cost of repair.
“As the Irak Petroleum Com-
pany has now pointed out, the
payments made to Syria in pipe-
line dues, which have amounted
recently to about £6i million a
year, are made on the under-
standing that the Syrian Govern-
ment will ensure safety of transit
of the oil from Irak.
“If this cannot be ensured, or,
worse still, if the Syrian Govern-
ment is ready to join the wreckers
whenever it decides that it wants
to put pressure on Britain to
change her policies, then I.P.C.
must plainly think again about
the whole operation.”
Britain and Europe
An American view (from
Baltimore “Sun”) of British in-
tegration with Europe:
“The extent to which this pro-
Europe view has gone in Britain
will surprise some Americans,
for once one leaves the areas of
Parliamentary responsibility and
Tory commitment, the pro-
posals become bold indeed. The
Liberal intellectual Graham
Hutton thinks ‘we must slash our
defence burden and integrate
our armed forces far more
closely with those of France,
Germany and the rest, first and
foremost for European defence.’
“British military integration
with Europe, something going
much further than the common
commitments represented by the
Nato and related arrangements,
is still probably unlikely. But
there is a good prospect that the
Macmillan plan for closer
economic relationships will go
through.
“Under the pressure of events,
out of a re-thinking of the
American relationship, in line
with the continuing fear of
Russia, even key Tories are re-
treating from old concepts and
no longer tenable assumptions.
“And one thing is certain:
there would be very general
American approval of closer
European integration which,
after all, is what American policy
has been aiming at, from the
Marshall plan debates onward.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The N.T.
An American peanut-buyer, Arthur
Chandler, realised a while ago that one of
the Northern Territory’s most urgent
needs was an adequate supply of fresh
fruit and vegetables at prices the ordinary
worker and his family could afford.
Chandler acquired land at Batchelor,
scene of the first Government experi-
mental farm, and proceeded to do things.
Now he has 40 acres under bananas and
pineapples, large areas under melons,
pumpkins, cucumbers, etc., and calculates
that Darwin will soon have fresh fruit
and vegetables throughout the year at
prices all can afford.
Possibly more important, he is estabish-
ing Darwin’s first wholesale market, not
only for his own benefit but for all other
farmers who want to use it. This will
give some idea of monthly demand, and
growers will know how much to plant.
Chandler’s farm is not as yet large
compared with some in the southern
States, but it is the largest individual
enterprise in the Territory and already
employs 13 white men and three
aborigines full time —the result of eight
years’ work. Houses for his employees
have been built, an adequate water-
supply assured, and he has now pro-
gressed to the stage where he can think
of realising full-holds on ships going
from Darwin to Fremantle. Perth is
always short of tropical fruits, and
Chandler sees possibilities of developing
an export-market for his surplus produce.
The “Northern Territory News”
(20/12//56) calls Chandler’s fajm the
biggest agricultural enterprise in the
Territory outside the massive rice-project.
It is fortunate that the North has a
sympathetic Administration at long last
and a Minister who has complete faith in
it. How the shade of old Dr. Gilruth
must chuckle to see the prophets of
disaster confounded. He worked hard on
his original Batchelor project, but was
tied hand and foot with red-tape while
the Federal Government of those days
regarded the North as a nuisance.—
Sandpatch (N.S.W.).
Road Safety
Victoria distinguished its Christmas
and New Year holidays with 23 deaths on
the roads—a record. How many were
seriously injured is anybody’s guess, but
one collision alone accounted for 13 in
addition to a death. N. S. Wales also had
a very bad record, and the other States
doubtless contributed to the grand total
for Australia.
“Insurance” (B. 26/12/’56) maintains
that legislation to restrain the careless and
reckless driver is no solution, and that, in
any case, a “vast army of police” would
be required to enforce it.
We already have plenty of legislation,
as well as pious exhortations from all
and sundry and many advertisements
about road-safety. The results of all this
are the figures quoted in the foregoing.
To my way of thinking, a far more rigid
enforcement of existing laws is what is
needed; not more laws and regulations.
Drink undoubtedly has much to answer
for, and the foolish “bona fide traveller”
clause in the Victorian Act has only the
effect of sending people out on to the
roads in cars looking for grog, instead of
obtaining it in the towns where they live.
Could anything be more ridiculous than
people from one town driving 20 miles
to another town for a drink, or series of
drinks, while the residents of that town
head off in the other direction for 20
miles to get their fill?
As for armies of police, one energetic
constable placed outside the front door
of a pub that was catering for so-called
“bona fide travellers” would keep the
police-magistrate pretty busy on the
following morning. The present routine
seems to be to wait until an accident is
reported and then turn-up with a note-
book.
There is nothing worse than the sight
of a bunch of callow youths and girls
emerging from one of the Saturday-night
dances or barbecues —call them what you
will—not only full inside but also carrying
bottles of beer to be stowed into a car.
Better still, however, abolish the so-
called “bona fide traveller” business alto-
gether. Or, at least, increase the distance
to be travelled to something considerably
more than a mere 20 miles, which is a
relic of the horse-and-buggy days—after
20 miles in a modem car nobody should
really be in need of refreshment.—
Harry the Horse (Vic.).
Diesel-electrics
It is incredible that more protests aren’t
raised in opposition to a national policy
which is rapidly bringing Australia to the
point where virtually its entire domestic
transport set-up will depend on imported
fuel brought from countries which are
politically unreliable and also unfriendly.
It is a policy, moreover, which even now,
at the height of our prosperity, is sending
our politicians overseas like mendicants
to beg loans from all and sundry, not even
the frugal Swiss being exempt.
The latest imported extravagance is
the diesel-electric locomotive, an interest-
ing, normally uninspiring, but extremely
expensive piece of machinery which made
little progress for 30 years until “dis-
covered” by American super-salesmen,
since when the most fantastic claims have
been made for it, of which a possible
10 per cent, are true. Even if it did run
for a fifth of the cost of a steam-loco, or
cut days off schedules, it remains a com-
pletely non-productive factor in our
economy and important only in that it
is dispensable.
We can’t use our unlimited coal-
"Okay, you disinter grate me—then I'll punch you on the nose!”
resources, our water-power or our atomic
potential for aircraft, road-transport or
even coastal shipping. For them we must
continue to import vast quantities of oil.
But by electrification our own resources
are more than adequate to give us the
finest and the cleanest railway-system
possible. Borrowing to electrify the rail-
ways would be justified as a long-term
measure. Borrowing to buy diesels in
the full knowledge that further borrow-
ing will be necessary to buy their fuel
would make the finance of the Lang era
look statesmanlike. Transporticus
(Singapore).
Bibliographical Correction
On page 69 of Frederick T. Macart-
ney’s revision of Dr. E. Morris Miller’s
Australian Literature is the following
entry:
“Bookfellow, The.” See Stephensen, P. R.
This confuses my identity with that of
the late A. G. Stephens, at which I ought
to feel flattered; but such a mistake in
what purports to be a work of reference
reveals carelessness in the compilation.
A further instance occurs on page 446 of
the same work, where my first name is
given as “Percival,” despite the fact that
Dr. Miller stated it correctly as Percy in
his edition of 1940.
Having been adequately baptised by
Archdeacon Rivers of the Anglican Bush
Brotherhood, in 1901, I object to having
my brand altered in 1956.
For five-and-a-half years (1936-42) I
was co-editor of a literary monthly maga-
zine in Sydney, “The Publicist,” to which
I contributed over 100 signed articles.
This activity is omitted from my record
given on page 446 of Mr. Macartney’s
book. It is an error of omission, but an
error nevertheless. —P. R. Stephensen
(N.S.W.).
Perth Transport
I can accept “C.A.L.’s” statement (B.
19/12/’56) that after socialisation of
Perth’s company-run bus-lines “the com-
munity will grumble at paying taxes to
meet annual deficits.” But his other
remarks are controversial.
“Opening-up of scattered areas,” by
road or river, was never done by Govern-
ments. Perth’s western and northern
suburbs were developed by private tram-
ways, and up to War II all bus-routes were
private enterprises. They made possible
the extensive settlement of suburbs in
the east and south and on the riverside
and in the hills.
Government transport pioneered no-
where. It absorbed or competed with
private services in settled areas. Its new
routes are part of planned development
in housing-projects.
Very few will realise that “to show a
profit, a bus-ride would have to cost as
much as a taxi-trip”—simply because it is
not so. One profit-showing company
carries an adult 170 miles a week for
19s. 4d. That’s 1.365 pence per mile,
less than sevenpence per mile for five
passengers—a taxi-load! Taxis on more
than double that claim they’re starving.
If fare-increases mean that “more
travellers will turn to private cars” they’ll
bum their financial fingers unless they
travel at cut-rates, illegally, with “pirates.”
To equal bus-travel of 170 miles for
19s. 4d. a small car, cost-accounted,
takes about a fiver weekly. Apart from
risks, a “pirate,” even with full loading
of four cut-rate customers at three
pounds, would be well out of pocket
against bus-fares. He’s the mug, and a
driver who can’t afford to travel alone
can’t afford a car.
Private bus-lines are battling. . They
meet uneconomic competition. They pay
income-tax, sales-tax and payroll-tax.
They pay licence-fees, and fees on diesel-
vehicles soon will double. First of all,
though, they pay 6 per cent, of gross
revenue to the Transport Board. It’s
difficult, but they pay their way, too.
State-owned services don’t pay taxes.
They don’t pay, either.
Heavy taxation and uneconomic
competition could kill the private bus-
companies, but on performance the
Government can’t —or, anyhow, doesn’t—
transport passengers except at a loss.
With eased taxation and restricted
uneconomic competition bus-companies
could improve and extend their services at
a final gain to the taxpayer. It seems
financial commonsense to ldt them try.
—Apemantus (W.A.).
Productivity?
“In the ACT” (B. 2/1/’57), noting that
we are to have a nice new standing com-
mittee on productivity, remarks that it
will be informative to discover just what
the committee will do, and when and how
the job will be tackled.
Well, things may be expected to happen
in this order:
A chairman will be appointed.
A secretary will be appointed.
A chief and other clerks will be
appointed.
Stenographers and typists will be
appointed.
Stationery will be printed, evidence will
be heard, much travelling by cars will
ensue, and in due course this conglomer-
ate elephant will produce some files.
There will be Budget-appropriations to
cover the substantial costs.
The net tangible result, so far as pro-
ducing anything other than files, is likely
to be nil. In a year or so the whole
business will be forgotten and a new
committee formed with a view to
damping-down production. Remember
the happy days when wheatgrowing was
restricted by licensing?— Ceg (Vic.).
“The Ruined City”
Queenslanders were not so surprised
to read about the “Ruined City”
of the Northern Territory (B.
26/9/’56 and B. 28/11/’56). They
have one of their own, about 200 miles
north-west of Brisbane, which has
received a certain amount of publicity in
its home State.
The Amphitheatre, as it is known, is
portion of the Carnarvons, the name
loosely used to describe an upheaved mass
of spurs and gorges in the Great Dividing
Range, stretching roughly between
Springsure and Rolleston in the Central
Districts, towards Charleville in the west
—a large tract of scenic grandeur
accessible only to the young and active.
The “ruined city” consists of a sunken
area of about 90,000 acres on Glen-
haughton station, hemmed in by sandstone
walls several hundred feet high. The
rock formations are fantastic. Access is
by a breakneck staircase of tumbled
boulders, through which the station cattle
must be brought in and out.
It will be a long time before the Amphi-
theatre or even the Carnarvon National
Park is accessible to the general public.
The country is really tough, and access
is confined to foot-travel or packhorses.
In good seasons the amount of water
coming down the gorges ensures that no
one may enter, while the roads are rough
bush-tracks, impassable after rain. May-
be it’s unpatriotic, but there are some of
us who like it that way—primeval and
unspoiled.—J. B. (Q.).


Steam and Diesel
My challenge to figures - given by
“Transporticus” was not based on any
newspaper-report, but on the actual price
paid for the machines (B. 19/12/’56).
The point is that, so far as N. S. Wales
is concerned, two engines are used only
when a load calls for two engines, just as
we frequently see trains hauled by two
D5O- or 53-class when the through-load
exceeds the ability of one engine. I
understand that is a world-wide practice.
Anyone who saw it would have noticed
that C 3824 was also part of “the tiny
Royal train” which could easily have
been hauled by one Zl4 (C.G.)-class
engine. When the Prince of Wales
travelled in N. S. Wales his train—no
larger than that put on for her Majesty—
was hauled by three C 32 (P)-class engines
and the Duke and Duchess of York
travelled to Katoomba in a train no
heavier than those mentioned and three
C36-class engines worked it to Katoomba
and stabled at Lithgow. I had a photo of
the three running coupled out of Lithgow
to haul the Royal pair to Sydney.
I don’t know how these matters are
handled in Singapore, but in all the Aus-
tralian States, India, Great Britain,
Canada and U.S.A. three locomotives are
always used on a Royal train. One engine
runs pilot (a section ahead of the Royal
train) as a guarantee against interference
to the line, the enginemen to observe
that all facing points are clipped and
locked. Two engines haul the train, so
that should one engine develop
mechanical faults the remaining engine is
competent to haul the train, together with
the disabled engine, and arrive at
destination on time.
On all of the inter-State and intra-
state trains in N. S. Wales which are
worked by diesel-electrics only one engine
is used, and that engine takes the train
to its destination. As I am writing I
can hear a 42-class Clyde d.-e. taking the
Down Brisbane Limited up the grade to
Hornsby, and that identical engine will
be on it on arrival at South Brisbane
tomorrow. —Y. Tope (N.S.W.).
Regulations
In post-war Britain, when sugar imports
were strictly limited, manufacturers began
to use fondants as an unrationed
sweetener, and the volume of this import
increased so much that the Government
clamped down controls. Sweetened fat-
mixtures were free from interference, so
the sweets-manufacturers began to use
these mixtures, which, in turn, were con-
trolled.
Undaunted, the versatile manufacturers
arranged to get piping-jelly from Europe.
By the time officialdom got round to
investigating the position the European
trade in piping-jelly had expanded so
much that to curtail it “would have been
damaging to trading relations.” This
expression rather puzzled the sugar-
growers, whose rationed product was
accumulating unsold, although it was a
fraction of the price of piping-jelly.
A noticeable feature of the present times
is the steadily growing mass of laws and
regulations governing more and more
aspects of our lives. Originally criminal
law dealt with offences against life and
property. The scope has expanded, how-
ever, and almost every session of Parlia-
ment results in more and more offences
being created which are punishable with
fine or imprisonment. For example, there
are the complex labor-laws which are full
of traps for the uninitiated. It may be
claimed that life in general is becoming
more complex, but surely one may well
query whether all this complicated legal
machinery is really necessary.
A serious feature of many of these
laws is that many of the offences which
they create, and which often carry severe
penalties, are not morally wrong. This
leads to two consequences: first, the law
is brought into contempt and those
affected by it are incited to break or
evade provisions which lack foundation
in natural justice ; second, people’s moral
perceptions become blurred.
For example, under the powers of
certain marketing-boards it’s illegal for a
producer to dispose of his products except
through the board. Producers who are
caught disposing of goods to any
party other than the board, and of course
the recipients, are treated as common
criminals. Thus a criminal offence is
made of natural and honest industry and
commerce.
In Victoria there are the Transport
Regulation Acts which, of course, apply
to land-transport. It is significant that
sea-transport and air-transport are not
regulated in the same way. The heavy
ton-mile taxes at present levied on road-
transport, the minute details of each truck-
journey required by officialdom —these
and other requirements imposed by laws
and regulations are, of course, designed
essentially to shield the Victorian Rail-
ways from road-competition, but they
have the same undesirable consequences
of overloading us with what is really
superfluous legislation and, at the same
time, raising our cost-structure.
The common law of England is a model
of fairness, but the types of manifest
injustice referred to in the foregoing are
peculiar to statute law —i.e., the law
made by Parliaments.
No doubt such laws and regulations
are often designed with the hope or inten-
tion of redressing some grievances or
adjusting some unfairness. In other cases
it is simply bureaucracy run riot. But
in any case the cure is now far worse than
the complaint.— Fragmos (Vic.).
“The Little Things”
References by Bulletin contributors to
agents and manufacturers not giving
attention to little things were answered by
a correspondent who cited G.M.-H. as an
example, saying they insist on agents (or
dealers) carrying adequate stocks of parts.
Having just then bought a Holden
utility I was glad and looked forward to
scrupulous attention to detail by my local
dealer. , First need was a set of rods for
the tailgate; I waited 10 days for them
to come from Brisbane and instead of a
pair got two left-siders.
At various times I have been unable to
get a tappet-spanner, a duplicate key and
self-tapping screws, and never prompt
attention. Usually I was told casually to
try a hardware-store further down the
street.
Latest effort was a bolt for rear engine-
mountings—a three-eighth by three-quarter
job you’d expect to be stocked in dozen
lots. But no stock—not even a card for
them. Just “Try Mac’s hardware-store.”
—Tabba (Q.).
High Cost of Broadcasting
If TV-subscribers are to be socked by
the Federal Government at the same rate
as broadcast-listeners have been in recent
years it will be only a comparatively
brief time before the TV-licence fee of
£5 a year will be doubled, or even
trebled.
A few years ago the Government
increased the broadcast-listening fee from
£1 to £2 a year ; now it is to go up by
another 155., presumably because the
A.B.C. cannot manage on its present
income and the Government is unwilling
to increase the steeply-mounting Parlia-
jnentary appropriation still further
without collecting additional revenue
from listeners.
But can listeners be assured that the
A.B.C. spends to the best advantage the
huge amount of money which now passes
through its hands? A glance at the
commission’s expenditure in recent years
suggests that it has increased out of
proportion to the service rendered to
listeners. Away back in 1940-41, when
“ Don't just sit there —DO something !”
the licence-fee was reduced overnight
from 21s. to 205., the A.B.C.’s share of
that fee was cut from 12s. to 10s., but
the commission was able immediately to
make sufficient economies to enable it to
finish the year with a surplus of £24,000.
In the following few years the com-
mission was still able to show a small
surplus without curtailing its service to
listeners, but during the financial year
1946-47 it had to receive two Parlia-
mentary grants totalling £238,000 to
enable it to meet its obligations. The
“You've got a definite improvement there , Dufy."
total expenditure for that year was
£1,264,000.
By 1949 the commission’s financial
position had got so out of hand that
the Government of, the day amended the
Act to provide for the payment of the
whole of the licence-fees into consoli-
dated revenue and the commission to be
financed by annual Parliamentary appro-
priation. Expenditure for that year
totalled £1,605,000, but by 1952 this had
soared to £2,253,000. That was one of
the first fruits of finance by Parliamentary
appropriation, and even the appointment
of a Treasury representative to the com-
mission did little or nothing to check
the sharp upward trend. '
For the year ended June, 1953, the
commission’s expenditure was £2,887,000;
to June, 1954, it spent £2,995,000 ; and
for the financial year ended June, 1955,
it topped the three-million mark, with a
total expenditure of £3,158,000.
Admittedly the commission has had
to meet sharp increases in salaries and
fees, but apart from some additional
regional services there has been no
increase in its service to listeners. Trans-
mission-hours from the metropolitan
stations are broadly the same as they
were some years ago, and whenever the
commission has had to incur additional
expense in the provision of programmes
through Radio Australia the Govern-
ment has come to its aid with special
grants.
An increase of 15s. a year in the
broadcasting-fee on the eve of the com-
mission’s entry into TV doesn’t make
sense. As TV grows in popularity so
will interest in sound-broadcasting
diminish, and although it will probably
be a few years before there is any
appreciable falling-off in listening, the
present is hardly the time for the com-
mission to plan for higher expenditure
on broadcasting. On the contrary, it
should begin now to make the economies
that circumstances will force it to make
later on. Broadcast-programmes will
enjoy an audience, although a much
reduced one, for many years, but it
would be bad business to seek to maintain
indefinitely the present huge A.B.C. set-up
merely to cater for a minority of people.
—M. F. Dixon (N.S.W.).
Australian Gambling
State lotteries account for seven per
cent, of the total Australian expenditure
on gambling listed by the Bureau of
Census and Statistics. The £17.44 million
paid into lotteries in 1947 more than
doubled in the eight years to 1954, and
that does not include the amount
gambled on shoals of art-unions, raffles
and sweeps.
Tote-betting is legal in all States and
the amount invested thereon increased in
eight years to 1954 from £19.29 million to
£33.70 million or 77 per cent. But that
was only 13 per cent, of the total recorded
wagering.
The big money, or 80 per cent, of the
total listed wagering, goes through the
books, though bookmaker transactions in
neither Queensland nor W.A. are in-
cluded in the official figures. All the same,
£118.95 million went through the books
in 1947, and £208.26 million, in 1954 —
an increase of 75 per cent.
Through these listed channels, £146.15
was gambled in 1947, so that Australians
officially known gamblings amounted to
24s for every 20s. expended through the
National Welfare Fund, or 225. for every
20s. spent on all forms of defence. But
the gambling tempo increased by 1954
to £259.49 million or 295. spent on wager-
ing to every 20s. spent on national welfare,
or 295. on gambling for every pound spent
on defence.
National welfare includes all pensions
(civil and military), health- and hospital-
benefits, child-endowment and the like ;
and defence includes all outlay, from con-
solidated revenue and loan on Army,
Navy, Air Force and defence-supply.—
F. R. (Q.).
Resistance
In the post-war decade this is how the*
Soviet Government has reacted to stiff
resistance:
When, in 1945, Moscow demanded the
Turkish provinces of Kars and Ardahan
and joint Soviet-Turkish control of the
Dardanelles the Turks strongly resisted
and Moscow dropped its demands.
In 1946 the Shah of Persia sent portion
of his Army into Azerbaijan, the puppet
Communist State established in northern
Persia by the Russians during the war.
The Communists withdrew without
fighting.
In 1948 Tito had a dispute with
Molotov and unyoked Yugoslavia from
the Soviet satellite team. The Kremlin
boys mounted forces along the Yugoslav
border and hurled strong threats at Tito,
but took no armed action. In the same
year Russia blockaded Berlin, and the
European air became tense with the
expectation of war. The British and
American airlift defeated the blockade,
and the Soviet gave up the idea of ousting
the Anglo-American-French forces from
Berlin.
In 1950-53 the Soviet did not openly
join the Communist forces in Korea,
where General MacArthur achieved a
smashing victory over the Reds only to
see it later turned into defeat by political
manoeuvre.
Weakness is folly—even an argument
cannot be won by running away. Reso-
lute resistance has been the only successful
counter to Communist demands.—K. Me.
(N.S.W.).


Which is the better
quality wool — wool
shorn before or after
lambing? The results
of tests carried out in
New Zealand supply
the answer. These
tests, made on wool
from the same flock
of ewes, show that the
clips of pre-lambing
shorn wool were much
superior in grading to
the post-lambing clips.
Practical tests have
shown also that lambs
marked and tailed by
Elastrator Rubber
Rings are superior in
resistance to shock,
set-back and fly-strike
than lambs marked
and tailed by a knife.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
FARM MECHANISATION
TN recent weeks farmers in
New South Wales have been
seeing their first glimpse of
armchair-farming as it could
perhaps be, in the form of a
radio-controlled tractor.
Obedient to a smaller control-
panel about the size of a portable
radio, this specially-adapted
Ferguson tractor starts, stops,
steers, and puts its implements
in and out of work—all by
remote-control.
The operator can sit in the
shade smoking a cigarette, and
run the tractor around the
paddock as far as he can see
to work it properly.
Impractical? Perhaps it is at
the moment, but it is a successful
experiment—the sort of experi-
ment that has led to the great
mechanical revolution which has
struck farming.
Every month sees some new
device aimed at taking the back-
ache out of farming, increasing
efficiency, and saving money.
Since the day the first farmer
substituted steam-power for
horsepower, farm-mechanisation
has gone forward at a rapidly-
accelerating pace, to a stage
when push-button farming
doesn’t seem so much of a dream
after all.
The advances of technology
and engineering, prodded by
mounting labor-costs and a
steady decrease in labor available
on farms, have made an
economic proposition of what
the farmer of yester-year might
have considered a pile of
mechanical claptrap—all right as
a curiosity, but far too compli-
cated and expensive for farming.
Looking Ahead
What does the future hold for
farm-machinery? Perhaps the
best way of peering ahead is to
study the more recent trends,
and build on them.
The basic unit of farm-
mechanisation is, of course, the
tractor, which for many years
didn’t change very much, except
for the introduction of the
diesel engine; which is not only
more frugal of fuel, but uses a
much cheaper fuel.
Other changes were more-or-
less refinements of existing prin-
ciples until after the last war,
when the three-point linkage and
hydraulic-lift found its way on to
the tractor —a basic unit which
has now been put to any number
of tasks.
The driving power of
hydraulics, easily transmitted and
directed through flexible oil-
anes, has taken the hard work
out of many of the operations of
farm-machinery.
Direct - mounted implements
have given tractors ■ more
manoeuvrability. Instead of
having to turn in his seat and
manhandle unwieldy levers that
he practically had to stand on
to move, the tractor-operator
can move them with precision
and speed at the touch of a
finger to the hydraulic-control.
Larger trailed implements are
also losing cumbersome levers,
to have them replaced by a
simple standard hydraulic-
cylinder operated through a
flexible tube from the built-in
hydraulics of the tractor.
Tractor Trends
The same hydraulic force is
being used not only to lift
implements, but loads to be
carried. See how simple it is for
the tractor-driver to back-up to
a load of cut fodder with a buck-
rake, lift it, carry it, and drop it
in a fraction of the time needed
for the old pitchfork, days.
Ingenious minds have also
harnessed these hydraulics for
such attachments as cranes,
carryalls, post-pulling, and so on.
Now, of course, the same
principle of hydraulics is being
used to solve some of the trans-
mission problems of the tractor
itself.
Tractors have to take a heavy
load, and try to keep a constant
speed of operation under very
variable loads, which is quite a
problem when it comes to trans-
mission of the power available
from the engine.
Research-engineers at the
National Institute of Agricultural
Engineering in Britain have been
working on a hydraulic-drive for
tractors for several years, and
have built a tractor with a
completely unorthodox system of
transmission.
Fluid-drive is not new in heavy
equipment, but this goes one
further. There is no orthodox
gearbox, drive-shaft, or dif-
ferential. The engine pours its
power into a pump which pumps
hydraulic fluid along tubes direct
to the wheels.
Each of the driving-wheels has
built into it a hydraulic motor —
something like a pump in reverse.
Instead of turning the pump to
move the fluid, the moving fluid
turns the pump. In this way, the
fluid pumped from the engine
turns the wheels.
This sort of transmission has
many advantages. It can turn
corners and snake around or
through parts of the tractor
without any mechanical troubles.
It gives a smooth, even thrust
from zero to full power, with
a single-control changing-speed
from full-ahead to full-reverse,
or any speeds in between.
What’s more, the transmission
is practically immune from
danger caused by overloading or
inexpert handling.
This tractor is still only experi-
mental, but it has shown that
hydraulic transmission has many
advantages and is a practical
possibility.
Simpler Working
There are also many improve-
ments beginning to appear in
transmission of power from the
tractor to the machine it is
pulling.
Power-takeoff shafts have been
in use for many years, but they
have their problems.
A rapidly-rotating shaft from
the tractor to the machine always
presents a danger to the operator,
many of whom seem to regard
protective shields as something
put there to hinder them in
coupling and disengaging the
drive.
And even when the drive gets
to the machine itself, there are
transmission problems. Take a
look at machines like harvesters,
for instance, and see the often
bewildering complexities of
shafts, chains, belts and gears
which carry the power from the
tractor to the large assortment
of parts that need moving.
Hydraulic transmission of
power from the tractor to a
series of small hydraulic motors
at strategic points in the machine
might solve many of these
problems.
What looks perhaps more
promising is electrical transmis-
sion of power from the tractor
to the machine —a principle
already in use in some machines.
A generator mounted on the
tractor provides a means of
power which can be led simply
along a cable to wherever it is
needed. One or more electric-
motors fitted at key-points in a
complicated machine like a
harvester to provide power could
make things much easier for the
designer.
At present, his design of the
vital parts of the machine —those
used for collecting the crop and
treating it—has to be influenced
" Who's the new fire-fighter?"
by the difficulties of getting
power to these parts. Shafts have
to run through here—belts along
there—and so on; making the
design much more complex, and
giving less chance of producing
the best design for the task the
machine is intended to perform.
Free him from some of these
restrictions, and the designer
could possibly produce a much
more simple and effective
machine.
Electric-motors used for this
work could, of course, be built
to standard specifications, so that
they could be transferred from
machine to machine, whenever
and wherever they were needed.
Other Machines, Too
On the design and construc-
tion of farm-machinery generally,
it’s good to see more and more
advanced engineering principles
coming in.
Metallurgical advances and
application of engineering design
have meant that the frames of
machinery can be made much
lighter. Heavy solid members of
metal are being replaced by
lighter, stressed girders, or even
tubular metal, to save both
material and dead-weight.
Bearings sealed for the life
of the machine, or needing
maintenance only once a year,
are appearing on some machines.
Anyone who had had to crawl
to inaccessible places on a
machine carting an oil-can or
grease-gun, maybe with “cocky’s
chaff” falling into his eyes every
time he looks up, can appreciate
this sort of improvement.
Better design in relation to
placing of wheels, distribution
of load, and so on, are making
it easier to tow cultivating-
equipment and eliminate much
of the drag which is a dead loss
in fuel, time, and wear-and-tear
on both tractor and machine.
In other words, the farm-
machine is more of an engineer-
ing job than a blacksmith’s job.
Some people do maintain
that there is a certain amount
of danger in this trend —that the
more precision - built farm-
machinery becomes, the less
likely it will be to stand the
rugged conditions of farm-use.
Admitted, the man on the
land is not renowned for the
maintenance and care he gives
his machinery, but there is a
growing awareness of the
practical advantages of proper
service. There are many more
farmer-mechanics now than there
were a few years ago—men,with
appreciation of the capabilities
and limitations of machines, who
are quick to take advantage of
any improvements.
Driver’s Comfort
In tractors, too, the driver’s
comfort is being considered more
and more. From a simple
umbrella or cornsaek canopy to
keep off the hot sun, the tractor-
cab, to give the driver decent
protection in hot or cold
weather, has been evolved.
Cabs on tractors are an
increasingly common sight
around the countryside, but
looking a bit into the future you
might see the driver in a plastic
bubble complete with air-
conditioning.
You don’t have to look too
far ahead. Two rice-farmers in
Texas are already on the job.
Their tractors have cabs of
aluminium-sheeting with an
office-type air-conditioning unit
fitted behind the seat.
In hot weather, the tempera-
ture inside these cabs is often 20
degrees F. below that outside.
It _ may sound like pampering
drivers, but they report
distinctly more work done each
day by the operators, and a lot
less fatigue, which means x a
better job.
With the constant supply of
new equipment appearing, no
one can be blamed for wonder-
ing where it is going to stop —
how much machinery the farmer
can afford to have on his farm.
But in spite of the fact that
Australian farmers generally are
specialists, and can get more
working time out of individual
machines to make them pay
their way, they are still a long
way behind America and Britain
(which has the most highly
mechanised agriculture in the
world) in mechanisation.
The shearing industry has seen
its first major mechanisation
since the advent of the
mechanical handpiece with the
shearing-tables that have sud-
denly appeared from workshops
all over Australia.
Lessening Labor
Mechanisation is having a
significant effect on farm-
management. Take the simple
case of fodder-conservation.
Silage was popular in southern
Australia many years ago as a
long-term fodder-reserve, but
gradually lost popularity because
of its heavy labor-demands in
the light of an increasing
shortage of labor.
In recent years, the buckrake
and the forage-harvester have
given a tremendous boost to this
form of fodder-storage, which
they have made simple and
economical, with a minimum of
manpower.
But looking ahead generally,
it is perhaps in the field of
electronics and automatic-
controls that you can let your
imagination run riot.
The machine can take the
hard work out of farming.
These new control-systems can
also take over much of the
responsibility, and save the
tarmer from trying to be in
several places at once.
From simple gadgets like time-
switches on pumps driving water
up from the river, these controls
are ushering in real push-button
farming.
In the United States particularly
—-the home of gadgets—many
farmers are turning over routine
tasks to these ever-vigilant
electrical controls.
One poultryfarmer in the
United States, for instance,
handles 32,000 birds single-
handed with the aid of auto-
matic machinery and controls.
Feeding-time presents no
problems. He never handles the
feed. His grain and other feeds,
delivered in bulk, are stored in
overhead bins, where they feed
down into a grinding-mill and
then go by augers to other bins.
The owner simply sets the
dials to the combinations and
amounts of feed he requires, and
the machinery does the rest.
On the Sandy Run poultry-
farm in Pennsylvania, automatic
controls really take over. Set by
the operator, they turn the lights
in the pens on and off at the
required intervals, turn the auto-
matic feeders on and off for
l'eeding-times, and even start up
* ventilation-fans if the tempera-
ture gets too hot.
Maybe you might call these
things gadgets— too expensive
and complicated for everyday
work. You might claim that too
much time would be taken up
in looking after these new-
fangled doodads.
But think of what the farmer
of 40 years ago would think of
the farm of today. I don’t think
his wildest dreams would have
run to automatic pressure-
systems providing hot and cold
water through taps to kitchen
and bathroom, as many farms
have today, along with electric-
lighting, refrigeration and —more
recently—deep-freeze units.
Regarding Cost
As for cost, how many
farmers of 40 years ago would
have believed that before long
their farms would be supporting
tractors, pickup-balers, bale-
elevators, and the whole range
of high-priced machinery which
has become quite common today.
No doubt machines and
equipment are expensive. But so
is labor.
Cost, anyway, is relative.
Who’s to say how much the
farmer will be able to afford in
the way -of machinery in 20
years’ time?
But look at the trend. There,
it’s the farm-produce that’s dear
and the manufactured article
that is cheap. An American
pays less for his car and tractor
and refrigerator, but more for
food and clothing, relatively
speaking, than does the Aus-
tralian. He can afford more
machinery, and Australia is
following the same general trend.
Just how far we can go with
mechanising farming and letting
automatic controls take over
still remains anyone’s guess.
Herman Cohen’s “Wonsover” —
the machine that does everything
—is an example of how far some
people think the trend can go.
Now being built in Houston,
Texas, this machine is claimed to
cut down time and labor to a
tenth of that needed for orthodox
equipment. It is 24ft. long and
has equipment to plough,
harrow, soil - condition and
fertilise in one operation; not
to mention controlling pests and
weeds at the same time.
Used on Mr. Cohen’s farm in
Maine, it cultivated and planted
with potatoes an acre in 20
minutes. According to some
enthusiastic reports, it seems
a pity that another machine has
to come back later to take off the
harvest.
This machine is operated by
one man, and if that’s not getting
close to push-button farming,
it’s certainly a passable imitation.
Maybe it will be a failure.
Maybe the radio-controlled
tractor is only a curiosity. So
were most of our everyday farm-
machines when they first


mmn «mes th« cost o«
Down coi* I®* 1 ®*
buh-® 1116 *l:
COW
P\>*
ROO* 1
fci©
ia.'*'°
dWI
tw 11 *,
Writ* to Wunder-
lich Ltd., Dept.
"D," Box 474,
G.P.0., Sydney, foi
copy of SMALL
HOMES BOOK.
qO**
v«>*
(VC*
WHEN YOU USE "DIIRABESTOS"
FOR EXTERIOR WALLS. INTERIOR WALLS AND CEILINGS,
Qget right down to bedrock cost. You gain
ways, because you obtain a modern, colour-
ful home, a home that is attractive, permanent
and just right for Australian living conditions.
Easy to handle, your carpenter quickly fixes
"Durabestos" Asbestos-Cement Wall and Ceiling
sheets for you—there is no waiting on other
trades. No waiting for "Durabestos" either, as
ample stocks are held by authorised timber and
hardware merchants.
'DURABESTOS^^SHEETS
n
my
,' . >
; ; .;■!. » . «
pm
W i Mm
• J
NOW USED IN
12 COUNTRIES
ROTARY
SUSKR
PAT. NO. 156596
-V.. .
solves all your
pasture control
problems!
CHOICE OF CHAINS, KNIVES
AND PASTURE TOPPING ENDS MAKES IT
WORLD’S MOST VERSATILE SLASHING MACHINE
1. CHAINS. For clearing rough, uneven
ground of regrowth, bracken, thistles, ti-
tree, liorehound, onion weed, broombush,
etc. Cuts Bft. swathe at 2-4 J m.p.h.
2. KNIVES. For clearing even ground of
dense, sappy growths or fibrous growths
such as rushes. Cuts 6-7 ft. swathe at
2-4 m.p.h. . . . forward or reverse.
3. PASTURE TOPPING ENDS. For
topping seeds and fleece infesting burrs
and clearing occasional sappy growth in
even pastures where there are no obstacles.
Cuts 7-Bift. swathe at 8-5 m.p.h.
•fr Chains, knives and topping ends quickly
interchangeable. Clears 5-7 acres hr.
for approx. 1/- acre, -fa Also ideal for
draining flood debris, cutting fire-breaks,
stubble mulching, etc. ☆ Adjustable fric-
tion type coupling cushions shock loads.
•fo Disc rides in centre of swathe and auto-
matically controls working height of
chains 'by following ground contours.
Fits any tractor P.T.O.
Price, complete with chains and all
fittings,. £l9B, F.0.R., F. 0.8., all Capital
Cities. Knives and Topping Ends optional
extra, £l9/10/- complete set.
TODSON
For further particulars write to the manufaoturers.
J. TODD & SON LIMITED
639 South Rd., Edwardstown, South Australia
DISTRIBUTORS : S.A.: Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd.; Power Plant Ltd. VIC.: William
\dams Tractors Pty. Ltd.; Bishops Implements Pty. Ltd. W.A.: Wigmores Ltd.;
Wesfarmers Co-op. Ltd. N.S.W.: Sun Co. Pty. Ltd:, Lidcombe ; British Tractors Pty.
Ltd., Rosebery. Q’LD: Day & Grimes, Kingaroy, Gympie, Nambour; Carlisle Motors,
Mackay. TAS.: “Fordson” Dealers, N.Z.: Andrews & Beaven Ltd., Christchurch.
Export inquiries to the Manufacturers.
appeared, including the aero-
plane, which has taken a long
time to become accepted agri-
cultural equipment.
Perhaps the farmer is slower
getting the benefits of our
advancing technology, but if you
look back through the years, you
find that he generally got them in
the long run.
Admitted, farming is more of
a personal occupation than most
others, but automation as an aid
to the farmer might not be so
far away after all.
Bill Ritchie.
Safflower
“Myall”: Last year “Aeolus”
reported work then going on at
South Australia’s Waite Institute
in the cultivation of safflower.
Since then, there has been a good
deal of research into the plant’s
commercial possibilities in
different parts of Australia.
While there are a number of
varieties of safflower under
investigation in the various
States, one type has been grown
here in Queensland for the past
three years. This season 100
farmers on the Darling Downs
have sown areas ranging from
20 to 100 acres, and the harvest
is expected to be in the vicinity
of 2000 tons.
The plant is very closely
related to the saffron-thistle,
which it resembles greatly. It is
more bushy and carries a big
bulk of foliage, while the only
prickles are a few at the end of
the large ovate leaves, and one at
the tip of each of the bracts of
the flowers.
Experiments have proved that
both the Queensland soil and
climate are suitable to the plant,
which can stand quite a lot of
adverse conditions. Good
drainage is essential to its best
growth, as waterlogging, especi-
ally when the plants are young,
will cause serious damping-off.
However, sufficient moisture is
necessary to produce sturdy
plants.
Fertile loams produce the
largest crops, but any ordinary
soil that is well-drained is suit-
able, while poor land should be
given an application of a
balanced chemical fertiliser at
the rate of 2cwt. to the acre.
The field should be well-
prepared and brought to a fine
tilth before sowing, and should
be given several cultivations from
the time the seedlings appear
until they are growing strongly,
when they will choke out most
rubbish which might appear.
The seed is white or cream in
color, and is similar in size and
shape to that of the sunflower.
Seed should be sown in the late
autumn and winter. On the
Downs, July sowing is favored,
as then the plants only grow to
the height of about 3ft., instead
of 7ft. or Bft. if sown earlier. The
crop is much easier harvested,
and is taken off with a wheat-
header with little or no difficulty.
Sow in rows about 30in.
apart, spacing the seed 7in. apart,
and cover with 2in. to 3in. of
soil.
The safflower-plant may be
fed-off after the crop has been
harvested, and makes an excel-
lent fodder. Picked when very
young, it is sometimes fancied
as a salad vegetable.
The flowers vary from ’in. to
across, according to the
season, and range in color from
cream to orange.
Long periods of wet weather
will interfere with pollination,
with a resultant loss of seed, but
warm, dry days will help with
the production of heavy crops.
The plant has been known to
yield one ton of seed to the
acre under very favorable condi-
tions, but the average crop runs
to about half that weight.
When fully-grown, safflower is
very hardy, and is drought-
resistant to a remarkable degree.
It is very free from pests and
diseases. Aphids sometimes
attack the young shoots and
buds. It is not economical to
spray these, as the cost would
exceed the little damage done.
The parent of the safflower is
a native of India, bears a red
flower, and has been in cultiva-
tion for hundreds of years. The
Hindus sow an acreage of one
million to the crop, the principal
product being a bright red dye,
made from the flowers. This is
used as a coloring for food-
stuffs, but the greater proportion
is mixed with talc-powder to
make the popular cosmetic,
rouge.
The U.S.A. now grows
thousands of acres of the plant
for the seed, from which a very
fine oil is extracted. This is
edible, but the greater portion is
used in the manufacture of soaps,
paints and varnishes. Some
authorities declare that the oil is
superior to linseed-oil, especially
for paint-making, as it does not
“yellow.” '
Experiments are now being
made to determine the most
suitable varieties for various
districts, their degree of spini-
ness, color of the flowers, size
of the heads, and the oil-content.
The Queensland Grain
Growers’ Association is collect-
ing figures on the cost of produc-
tion of the crop, and intends
to enter into negotiations with
the processers to determine a
price acceptable to growers. A
contract has been made for a
parcel of 200 tons of the seed at
£45 per ton, and it would seem
that the price will be regulated
by that of linseed.
Intending growers would be
wise to make inquiries into
possible markets' before sowing
large areas of the plant.
Tomato Spot
“Big Billy”: Research in
Victoria has confirmed that early
spot of tomatoes may be con-
trolled by fungicides.
D. E. Harrison, of the State
Department of Agriculture, who
conducted the research-
programme using five different
chemical mixtures, says the yield
of clean tomatoes can be
doubled.
Although copper-oxychloride,
maneb, zineb, bordeaux-mixture
and maneb-zineb were tried in
various quantities, best results
came from a spray-application of
zineb, 21b. per 100 gals, at
fortnightly intervals from late
January until May.
All treatments gave higher
yields of clean fruit, but only
zineb and bordeaux-mixture
(4:2:80) gave significant in-
creases. The trials also demon-
strated that spraying was more
economical than dusting.
What rules out bordeaux, says
Harrison, is the danger of injury
to foliage and fruit; but it costs
only £3 per acre against £lO per
acre for the zineb treatment.
Sow Rye Early
“Nyang”: If wheat is sown
too early, it runs the risk of
frost-damage and consequent
sterility at flowering-time. It is a
different matter with ryecorn,
the main function of which is
to hold the soil rather than
produce grain (although rye does
produce a tasty whisky).
Rye’s chief danger-period is
during the first few days after
germination, when the delicate
shoots face extinction from the
equinoxial gales which blow hard
in late March and April.
For this reason, it is wise to
sow sufficiently early for the
plants to be old enough and
strong enough to stand a
buffeting when the winds blow.
Another advantage of sowing
rye early is that the pollen
ripens while the weather is
relatively cool. Unlike the other
cereals, rye is cross-pollinated,
and the pollen is likely to be
killed during very hot weather
before it reaches its destination
on another plant.
The third reason for sowing
early is to make sure of good
winter-feed for the lambs. Sheep
love rye until it gets bitter, when
it begins to run up to ear. Even
so, it is best not to graze rye
on sandhills at all. Under this
condition, it needs every chance
to do its vital job —prevent
erosion.
Rye-grain is small enough to
sow at the rate of 361 b. per acre
(about a bag to five acres) for
most purposes, although it can
be thicker for special jobs such
as grazing or colonising a
particularly bad dune.
A cwt. of 2:1 super, and
ammonia per acre increases the
chance of thick, early growth,
and reduces the danger of having
to re-sow an area which gets
blown out.
Sac-brood
“B-herd”: This year in the
north of N. S. Wales, at least,
and extending, too, into south
Queensland, the season is
bringing out various ills to plague
the honey-harvester.
Disease flares up when the
pollen is poor and intermittent,
and no honey shows. The
“terror” disease, American foul-
brood, now seemingly lodged
firmly in the north-west of
N. S. Wales (especially around
Inver ell and Tamworth), broke
out again.
Sac-brood, a virus disease, and
one which seems to have the
experts stumped, has been
running through this normally
heavy-producing honey-country.
On a recent inspection-trip
through the Dumaresque River
basin I saw more evidence of
it than at any time in my
experience.
There’s one factor which
seems to have a pretty important
bearing on this brood-disease:
the experts would be well
advised to look into it not
dismiss it as beefarmer talk.
Whenever there’s a heavy
outbreak of sac-brood, you see
a lot of Darling-pea in bloom.
Most of the beemen who have
suffered from sac-brood have
noticed this, and a good many
of them think the plant causes
the dead brood: perhaps by
producing a poisoned pollen, or
honey, thus simulating the effects
of sac-brood.
Apiaries along the Duma-
resque, brought in early for the
blooming of the silverleaf-
ironbark, suffered heavily. Being
a brood-disease the effect is felt
when the flow starts and the
beeherd finds he has no bees to
forage the bloom.
All the effect of the Darling-
pea (if such it is) or of sac-
brood leaves the hive when the
blooming ceases and new, heavy
pollen rolls in the entrance.
Which means that to offset or
avoid the ill-effects of this brood-
disease, the apiarist must move
off pea-country. In the north-
west, this means a major move,
because the weed crops-up
throughout the wheat-country.
Darling-pea comes into bloom
just before the main flow from
yellow-box, or the ironbarks in
their season.
Autumn Mating
“Timber”: November mating
of sheep to provide lambs for
the export-market is an excellent
practice in the main lamb-
breeding areas, but March-
mating is worth considering in
some flocks.
The main advantage is that
all breeds of ewes are in season
during March, Hewitt, of the
Victorian Department of Agri-
culture, points out. The British
breeds, especially, have definite
times of the year when good
lambing-percentages are hard to
get.
March-conceived lambs have
the advantage of being dropped
when the seasonal flush of growth
guarantees a good milk-supply
from the ewes, and a nice green
pick of pasture when the
youngsters begin to take an
interest in grass.
As fat-lambs, they are sappy
for the Christmas market here,
in contrast to the dried-off April-
dropped carryovers, and as
weaners they could be taken
through the summer on stubbles,
lucerne, or irrigated pasture.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(13/1/’57)
Heavy rain* are likely on the Queensland coast (central
and north), Peninsula, and part of the north-west during
February, but patchy elsewhere. General rains and wi e-
spread flooding are indicated during March. .
N.S.W. should also get patchy rains below normal m
February, but reasonably good general rains should com-
mence in March and continue regularly until July.
Victoria should receive reasonably good rams during
February, but part of the Mallee, west coast and Gippsland
may get only light rain. The season should commence with
general rains during May. , . .»
General rains are likely in most of S.A. during the
second half of February, and heavy rains and flooding may
occur in the upper north. Light rain in the and
Mt. Lofty Ranges. , , ,
In W.A., heavy rains are likely in the Kimberleys and
north-west during February, and these should extend
throughout most of the State. South-east and goldfields
confined to light rain.
LENNOX WALKER.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
ror months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
[■
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/fl
Foreign .... £B/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Situation Wanted
ENGLISH LADY, 50, cultured,
pleasant personality and appear-
ance, conscientious, would like to
manage home for gentleman. Per-
sonal interview arranged.—No. 2357,
C/o “The Bulletin,” Melbourne,
Ryan knew the mining laws
well enough to know his right of
entry, but he was too decent
to mention that.
“You’d fill-in after you
finished, Mr. Ryan?”
Yes, Ryan would fill-in and
leave the place as it was. It was
a comedown for a digger to fill-
in, but then —well, Mrs. O’Meara
was a. decent neighbor, too.
“And where might it be you
were thinking of, Mr. Ryan?”
“I’ve often said to myself if
there was a bit of gold anywhere
that’s where it would be. That’s
the spot, and if a man had any
luck at all”
“Where, Mr. Ryan?” ' "
Ryan’s blue eyes lit with
enthusiasm,, “No one would
ever guess, so I’ll tell you—on
the Appletree Flat! Right in
the very middle of it. Between
the big trees.”
Perhaps Mrs. O’Meara was
more understanding than you'd
give her credit for.
She said, “That will be all
right, Mr. Ryan.”
A Drink with a Camel
BY BURTON REYNOLDS
THE sun’s rays lingered
their way through the
trees on Mount. Hope-
less while overhead a
screeching corella flew westward.
The Afghan camel-train wended
its way along the pad to the
exhortations of the turbaned
driver.
The day had been long, the
track dusty and parched. The
shimmering heat thrown back
from the earth by day now
became an enveloping mantle
of warm comfort—no need for
the blankets we carried on our
bikes.
Tomorrow we would reach
the Patchewarra Bore, on the
Strzelecki River banks, as also
would the ’Ghan teamster who
was pushing on as we made our
evening meal. We slept under
the stars.
Dawn came slowly at first,
then as if the sky were floodlit;
streaks of stratus cloud turned
to crimson, while the higher
cirrus formation became pale
pink.
A flock of grey galahs wheeled
overhead, their pink breasts
matching the new day. A
scented smoke of gum-twigs
floated skywards as Bob Sinclair
coaxed a new fire from the
embers. Bob, my mate, was a
geologist; but he could also
cook.
The chops from the cook at
Murnpeowie were spluttering
over the coals and the aroma of
fresh toast was in the air when
from near an acacia-brush the
thin voice of a gin giggled:
“Go on, Peanut. See if they
gibbit meat.”
We both sprang to our feet,
taken by surprise. I said
“Where did you come from?”
The figure coyly writhed and
swayed in a blue print garment
many sizes too large for its
skinny form.
“Alonga Coongie Lakes,” she
whispered.
Now appearing over the slight
rise were three blackfellows and
two gins with four greyhounds
and three mongrel dogs.
Peanut was a mangy sheep-
dog, evidently the companion of
Lulu, the first gin. Both of them
came closer, Peanut sniffing some
scraps while Lulu made marks in
the sand with her long toe.
The three bucks came up to
the fire and squatted on their
haunches as, with a high-pitched
voice, one of them asked about
the camel-team.
The gins sat down by the
creek-bed and talked between
giggles.
“Where are you making for?”
I asked as I flung the tea-leaves
from the quart-pot.
“We been go longa Patche-
warra Bore, big corroboree one
night,” volunteered the youngest
of the three.
Over on the left bank of the
Strzelecki two emus appeared,
pacing side by side, their long
shaggy necks reaching to the
ground as they picked up the
bits of fallen mistletoe-jelly.
“Hoolum!” cried the three
bucks at once. The dogs leapt
from their spots in the sand, at
full yelp in pursuit of the now
long-striding emus. The grey-
hounds outdistanced the kelpie
and mongrel dogs as they neared
the frantic birds.
DOUNDING the parched
A earth with their three-toed
feet and short wings fully
extended, heads moving with a
frenzy of fear from side to side,
the emus suddenly crossed the
river-bed and with new zeal
pelted along in our direction,
dogs yelping, blackfellows yelling
them on to greater effort and
speed. The emaciated hounds
shortened their stride. The emus,
with beaks agape from exhaus-
tion, swung clumsily into the
bend of the river where we stood
watching the race for life.
The lank figure of Boomurra,
the oldest aboriginal, doubled as
if in pain. With a mighty swing
of hi§ arm down beside his
left leg, he sent his boomerang
to cut noiselessly through the
air to the extended neck of the
bird.
With a. heavy thud and a
helpless cry the emu rolled along
the ground. It was pounced on
by the panting dogs, and feathers
flew in the air while the bucks
hurried to the kill. A melancholy
“Peep .. . peep . . could be
heard as the remaining bird
ambled its forlorn way to the
safety of the scrub.
“Come on,” said Bob Sinclair.
“Let’s get on the way while the
boongs are having a feed.”
With tucker strapped to
handlebars and the quart-pots
lashed to the seats of the bikes,
we pedalled our way on to
Patchewarra.
The flies came with us,
crawling in our eyes and riding
on our backs. They were
awaiting dinner-time, to settle
on our meagre rations in a
buzzing swarm. Along the
camel-pad the track was firm
where the Afghan’s beige-brown
camels had patted down the
sand.
Spinifex-clusters spread the flat
country with little knobs of
vegetation, useless to man or
beast; and as we pushed our
bicycles onward the bleached
bones of a dead camel glared in
the sunlight, while high in the
sky a single eagle wheeled and
glided.
We stopped to drink from our
waterbag. The dry sand and
persistent flies seemed to be
engulfing us.
Bob blew some sand from the
palm of his hand.
“What? Gold?’’ I asked.
“Just mundic,” he said.
“Come on.”
We straddled our bikes to push
on. The dunes showed red in the
west as a hot wind, slightly
gusty, whipped up spirals of
sand along the camel-pad.
TN the half-mirage ahead we
s could see the camel-team as if
they were already belly-deep in
a lake of shimmering water, and
beside them what looked like a
tall moving pole was the Afghan
teamster.
The wild odor of the bull-
camels came to us on the wind
as we drew nearer. The Afghan
was now leading the team by
a cord fastened to the nose of
the leading cow.
It was only a half-mile now to
the bore! The going was rough
and heavy as the camel-pad
gave way to deep warm sand.
The small green patch surround-
ing the bore outflow was a
welcome sight.
Patchewarra Bore was the
deepest artesian bore in the
whole of the basin, the trickle
of water no thicker than an
ordinary pencil, but the concrete
basin built under the flow was
full of clear, warm water. The
bluebush and saltbush of the
plains was garnished with a little
bungalow and prickly acacia.
Beyond, only sand and spinifex
met the eye. The sands were
now rising into a whistling sand-
storm through which the
lowering sun shone like a huge
copper plate.
DOB SINCLAIR and I filled
our waterbags and quart-
pots at the bore-head as the
Afghan wheeled his weary,
thirsty team to a shuffling halt
behind us.
We set our fire on the bank
of the desolate river and
sprawled on the ground to eat
—two junks of German sausage,
some stale johnnie-cake spread
with wild honey we had carried
three hundred miles. The butter
would be all right in the morning
in its golden-syrup tin, but now
it was a molten mess after the
hot day.
The bull - camel became
fractious as he headed for the
water, savagely attacked a cow,
then the Afghan teamster, who
lashed into the animal with a
piece of timber. Knocking the
’Ghan to the ground the beast
knelt on his arm, blowing a
purple blubber in rage. The
Ghan tried in vain to draw
his sheath-knife.
“Come on!” I yelled, and Bob
and I rushed to the scene.
The camel savagely snapped at
Bob as he grabbed the Afghan’s
knife. Swinging the knife Bob
brought it down with all his
strength on the beast’s nose.
Staggered, with blood pouring
from the gash, the bull roared
and gurgled, then madly rushed
to the bore-head where the rest
of the team were filling up on the
sweet waters of Patchewarra.
The ’Ghan, sweating freely
and badly shaken, murmured,
“Thank ’ee much. .Thank.”
TUST an odd mosquito
J rendered its one-note tune
in the still night as three weary
men and a string of tired camels
gazed at the starry heavens and
drifted into sleep.
Morning came all too soon,
with the shuffling of camels and
the screech of frightened parrots.
We stirred, to sep the bull-camel
of the night before lying beside
the bore in a strangely crumpled
heap. It was dead.
Saleb, we found, was the
teamster’s name. He stood .over
the offending beast muttering
something in his own language,
then suddenly he turned and
came to our campfire.
“Thank ’ee,” he said again,
then turned to his team. At his
command, camel by camel
settled in the sand, to allow the
cargo to be loaded on their
backs.
Placing a cord in the nose of
the leader he called them up and
wearily they came to their feet,
moving into position one behind
the other. Then the dark man
led his clumsy train down past,
our fire and away on his trek
of the desert.
Over near the bore he had left
a box of stores, tinned meat,
biscuits and flour, in gratitude
for his rescue. We decided to
camp a day before pushing on to
the mineral deposits Bob Sinclair
felt would be discovered in the
Montekeleary River region.
It was pleasant lazing in the
shade of the ghost-gums which
clung closely to the watercourse
of the Yaurorka Plains. As the
afternoon sun was lengthening
its shadows, I rolled over on my
blanket to look around the river-
bed. Bob was fast asleep. I
could see in the distance to the
north a few spirals of spinifex-
smoke, while away to the east
the darker smoke of the
eucalypts sent a message of the
approach of the tribesmen and
their gins.
“Wake up, Bob! Wake up!”
I called to Bob. ‘‘The coons are
heading in here. There’s a
corroboree tonight.”
He yawned. “I suppose
they’ll have some bombo to
drink.”
T>Y nightfall, after the cicadas’
serenade had died away, the
thin voices of the natives could
be heard in the distance, shriek-
ing, giggling and laughing as
they approached. When they
arrived the dead camel was meat
to them.
From another direction came
the Wonkongoru tribe, advised
by smoke-signal that white man’s
“laugh medicine” had come on
the camel-train and that they
were welcome at Patchewarra.
Saleb’s camel - train always
brought liquor and medicines
with the foodstuffs to the people
of the vast stations and burning
plains, and always a carousal
marked his passing.
Among the first arrivals were
the Coongie Lakes blacks who
had been driven south as far as
Kopperamanna station by
drought, and were now returning
to their own lake district, the
favorite of which was Cutta-
berrie because of the teeming
bird-life on its waters.
It wasn’t long before several
bucks came to our fire and
offered rum. They spoke
animatedly about old Saleb’s
virtues and his, bad luck in losing
a camel.
“But by Crikey he bringem
rum even if he carry ’em on his
back,” chuckled a lithe stripling.
Lulu and her mangy dog were
in the party as well as the others
from down-river, including
Boomurra, the chief hunter, with
boomerang.
The party waxed loud and
merry. Then a fight broke out
among the bucks at the bore-
head. The gins shrieked and
kicked each other as accusations
of man-stealing between the
tribes rose where all had been
so still.
T\ICE were thrown for the
17 favors of a lubra, in
complete indifference to the
brawl going on only a few yards
away, when Warraklanna, so
named after the lake of his birth,
commanded in a loud voice,
“Appaburra! Appaburra! ”
This seemed to stop the fight,
and a weird, stamping dance
began.
Raising his bottle high above
his head, Boomurra cried, “Mine
arinkit! Mine drinkit with
Saleb’s camel. Coo-ee! Coo-ee! ”
“Coo-ee-ee-ee! ” the high
sandhills echoed back.


MADAME SOLARIO
An anonymous novel certain to arouse speculation
and discussion.
At all booksellers - - 20/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
LATEST AUSTRALIAN BOOKS.
AUSTRALIAN IMAGE
A wide variety of Australian scenery is
brilliantly depicted in 50 landscapes—
the work of famous artists—reproduced
in colour in this beautiful volume. The
text, by Colin Simpson, is an exquisite
presentation of his personal picture of
the Australian scene.
32/6 (post 7d.)
THE FEATHERED SERPENT 1
by Roland Robinson
“This collection of Australian aboriginal
myths and magic ritual is a triumph for
ali concerned... .And the book itselt, in
its printing, illustrations and general
design, is an aesthetic delight. (Daily
Telegraph, Sydney.)
30/- (post lid.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY
B 0363.
66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C.l.
MF 6466.
PAN Books
GOOD FOR THE POCKET —* GOOD FOR THE PURSE
THE LAST ENEMY RICHARD HILLARY
THE PRIVILEGED NIGHTMARE ROMILLY & ALEXANDER
THE LOST PHARAOHS LEONARD COTTRELL
FANNY BY GASLIGHT MICHAEL SADLEIR
LAST VOYAGE ANN DAVISON
New Titles Available Now
From All Booksellers
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
and frequented by the Abominable
•S&owman: —
It was pointing a hand at me, and
’ uttering a curious mewing noise like
a kitten.
Further travels under the volcano
upon which the Dalai Lama’s
monastery is built brought him to yet
more marvels: prehistoric drawings, an
underground lake, bands of pure gold
alternating with bands of volcanic
rock; a hidden chamber carved from
rock in which, embalmed in gold and
sitting upon golden thrones, were the
bodies of 98 long-dead adepts, one of
whom Lobsang Rampa recognised as
having been himself in a former
incarnation; and, finally, in the most
secret chamber of all, where he under-
went the ceremony of the Little Death,
a vision of the giants who had inhabited
Tibet in the days when the country
lay at sea-level and the earth went the
other way round the sun . . . and, for
proof that the vision had not been a
mere daydream, the embalmed bodies
of three of these giants, “Two male
and one female. Every line, every
mark was faithfully reproduced by the
gold. But the size! The female was
quite ten feet long as she lay, and
the larger of the two males was not
under fifteen feet.”
It is, so to speak, quite a tall story.
Sidelights on Shaw
Stephen Winsten, Shaw’s neighbor at
Ayot St. Lawrence, has written a
number of books about Shaw, but m
Testing Apostle (Hutchinson) he has a
great deal about Vandeleur Lee, who
livened-up Dublin concerts and gave
Shaw’s musical mother the work that
enabled her to supply the deficiencies
of his drunken and improvident .father.
There are views of Shaw as a clerk,
,and then as a highly-efficient cashier
in a Dublin estate-office, walking out
with young ladies; then in London,
living with his mother (who had gone
there to teach music in the wake of
Vandeleur Lee) with one hat, one suit,
t one pair of boots; walking miles about
the city for lack of fares; meeting
Sidney Webb; writing novels; making
no money; addressing meetings.
It is carefully put together, Mr.
Winsten says, from 30 years’ conversa-
tion with Shaw himself, who also told
him of when Wilde visited him, at toe
time Shaw was writing “Arms and the
Man,” and they talked from twilight
to dawn: —
“Think,” Wilde added, “what a
great literature we might have had
if it were not for the reading public
and what great dramas would have
been written if there were no
theatres. The author becomes self-
conscious and therefore not at his
best when he is reminded of the
public! ”
He implored Shaw to throw over
Ibsen and to stop humoring the
workers. “Work at humor by all
means, but always avoid fashion if
you do not want to be out of date
within six months.”
Shaw countered with the opinion
that Ibsen’s reputation grew with
every failure... .“I am far too much
in advance of the time to be
interested in fashion.”
Counsellor at Moscow
Home and Abroad, by Lord Strang
(Deutsch), is the autobiography of
Britain’s Permanent Under-Secretary of
State for Foreign Affairs between 1947
and 195 3'. As Counsellor at Moscow,
Lord Strang had much to do with the
trial of the British engineers of 1933.
In 1938, as head of the Central Depart-
ment of the Foreign Office, he was with
Chamberlain at Godesberg and Munich
(“a hugger-mugger affair”).
Fie gives some account of the British
negotiations in Moscow in 1939 which
were superseded by the Russo-German
treaty; and goes on to his part with the
European Advisory Commission, the
scene and banquet at Russian head-
quarters in Berlin at the declaration of
the defeat of Germany, his travels in
south and east Asia and the Middle
East in 1949.
There is also a portrait of Ernest
Bevin, for whom Lord Strang seems
to have contracted more affection than
for most of his other colleagues—
though he speaks with respect of
Chamberlain, whose main mistake was
believing what Hitler and Mussolini
said; a considerable error.
Having been warmly greeted by
Molotov after many years, he implies
that Molotov was no slouch as a
negotiator, either . . . Here and there,
with a story of an ambassador who
by raising a quizzical eyebrow could
provoke a grin from Litvinov, or of
how an early mission to Moscow dealt
from chairs on the floor with Molotov
at his desk on a raised dais (taking no
notes but from, time to time fiddling
with a switch under the table), he
conveys something of what big-time
negotiations really mean.
At the end there are some charming
references to Foreign Office rales of
conduct, and the struggles of a Foreign
Office head to be available at any hour
of the day or night, especially to
Churchill, who worked at night, and
the difficulty of working to the full
for someone else’s policy and at the
same time keeping an opinion of your
own. It emerges as a game of chess,
in which the best that can be done is
to observe the rules.
The Saturday Book
Nostalgia for the quaintness of the
Victorian age, and maybe some effort
to rediscover its virtues, have sustained
the beautifully-produced Christmas
album, The Saturday Book, edited by
John Hadfield (Hutchinson), to its
present 16th issue.
The main item of this issue is “Every
Picture Sells a Story,” by James Laver,
which introduces a large selection of
mid-Victorian pictorial dramas, several
in color, such as Holman Hunt’s “The
Awakening Conscience,” Millais’s
“The North-West Passage,” and “Trust
Me!,” Tissot’s “Too Early” and “The
Last Evening.”
In the Holman Hunt the bold young
man is sitting at a piano in a room with
a magnificent carpet, and a well-
upholstered young Woman with a rich
shawl tied around her dress is rising
with staring eyes from his lap. Mr.
Laver very properly relies on Arch-
deacon Farrar’s contemporary descrip-
tion of it:— —
The seducer has a sort of evil
handsomeness, and is full of eager
vivacity. His right arm is lightly
thrown around the girl’s waist, and
he has begun the song “Oft in the
Stilly Night.” But the words have
touched, have startled the slumber-
ing conscience of the sinning woman.
She has turned from him with open
lips and dilated eyes, and the expres-
sion of anguish and horror is passing
convulsively across her features, as
she recalls the parents and the pure
home which she has abandoned for
this evil and callous wretch.
More temperately, Mr. Laver says,
having disclaimed the “five-o’clock-tea
antiquity” of Tadema and Leighton: —
It is significant that the Victorian
painters who have come back into
favor were all, almost without
exception, those who found their
“story” in contemporary life.
There are essays on a practically
unknown mid-Victorian landscapist,
John Middleton; on Randolph Calde-
cott, illustrator of children’s books;
on old English tomb-sculptures; on
English notabilities painted young and
old—the picture of the Nightingale
sisters young is charming. There is a
series of darling-dog pictures and a
fine set of pictures, some full-page
colored, of English pottery courtship-
pieces;^Endish 8
of old English
to °k;O f Trade. , Evelyn
Wlt Jj mo t^h nt j fainting”
K tot) and Kenneth Tynan the
and°a tricky ES k°„ Paiing^
|hc Ghost story.” by L. T. C. Rolt;
ms by John Betjeman and
Safa Jackson it makes a charming
comprom i se between the unbelievable
smu | ness of the past and the
un b e lie V ine insecurity of the present,
——
Coming: Noel Streat-
The Circus is Thk is nrob-
feild (Penguin Book,). P „
ably as good a Puffin as the Penguin.,
have ever mothered. Two orphans
brought up by an aunt who had been
lady’s maid to a duchess revolt from
her restricted circle and throw m their
i ot with an unknown uncle who is a
trapeze artist in a circus on tour in
England. He lets them stay with nun
and mix with the circus children, most
G f whom are assiduously practising to
h e artists like their parents. They
learn all about the circus from inside
and discover what hard work 1S
required to make a great performer,
The circus moves from one town to
another once or twice a week and they
learn the technical side of putting
up and getting down the big top. lhe
story is so well told and the people
seem so real that the book could easily
pass muster in a higher place m the
Penguin hierarchy than the Puffins.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 418
Across
I—Cards occupy such a tin like
strike hens. (7, 7)
9 —Two card games are a preventer
of wet feet when there’s deep
water about. (7, 6)
10 —B o y has one year in France. (3)
12 — Tommy is often associated with
such flapdoodle. (3)
13— Banishing the short Diana
orthography. (10)
14— Wickedness in one of the
successors to jazz behaves in the
air like a leg-spinner. (6, 2)
16—Salt line of union associated
with one. (6)
20—Scenting a pidgin notice which
discourages warblers. (6)
22—Bunk used by the Parthenon’s
ensemble. (8)
24—Caper of an automobile cat in
respect of fortune-telling with
cards. (11)
27 — Measure ’ades. (3)
28— The cube root of one quarter of
the square of two. (3)
29 Club container associated with a
horse adores cricket gear. (7, 6)
31—Those with seats work to these
with the Bath and the Garter on
their feet. (8, 6)
Down
1— See a capital place on a horse-
rug. (9) . „
2 Turned-in snare sickens cat
features. (4, 5)
3 It’s needed for fencing a south-
west river in north-west Australia.
(5)
4 Causing loss on memory in
Cinema-street. (8)
5 A fat queen who is at present
ruling the pantry. (6)
6 Falsetto specialists with droll
eyes. (9)
7 European river (according to the
Germans) takes her in. (5)
8— Doze upset a frier. (3)
11 —Where one can find the Taj
Mahal articles about King
George. (4)
15 —What might be responsible for a
report on Manchester? (3-6)
17 — Even our ma is involved in a
tactical move. (9)
18— Require Leslie to follow haber-
dashery. (7)
19__Obtained with a leave at
Capricorn. (4)
2i_None managed a North African
naval base. (4)
23 — State mine has one deer. (6)
24 An interior decorator gets
business all right. (4)
25 Murphy rising to provide a
counter-argument. (5)
26 —Colorado makes a fuss on this.
(5)
30—Sir William Slim swallows a
silencer in Parliament House. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 417


MARS
MINING PUMPS
for immediate & early
delivery
★ SPLIT CASING
★ HIGH/CONSTANT EFFICIENCY
★ REPLACEABLE RUBBER AND
ALLOY LINED
Sizes
3/2 4/3 6/4
8/6 10/8
Types
• Gravity
• Seal & Gland
• Alloy Lined
• Suction
• Rubber Lined
• Stainless Steel
%
m.
9
■
m
a,;
s
SiSia
■
m
m
< '
sm
M®
V
mmm
■
>,'.v a j
'a. a-.
m
J
■
S@!g@S
:
n
The Mars 6/4 “Drywell” Gravity-Suction*? amp.
¥ ANNOUNCING
ANOTHER MARS ACHIEVEMENT
OVERSEAS
AGENTS
REQUIRED
THE MARS
‘ UNIVERSAL DIRECTIONAL FLOW PUMP”
Discharges in any of 4 positions
right hand, or any of 4 positions
Jeff hand.
A Pump for use in any part of
your plant.
Replacement Parts available ex.
Stock.
m
m
.0
3
wM
m
S’.
m
0
Manufactured by:
MARS
MACHINE TOOL
MANFG.CO.PTY.LTD
mn
m
BRISBANE
J. & O’S. Advert.
