

im
mm
e
A H <3 H O 1 3 a A s
OHHIOS
The Bulletin
'Let’s Go To Thomo’s” — page jj
Wednesday, August 28, 1957
Price !/•
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
WITHIN ST. PATRICK'S, ARMAGH, CATHEDRAL.
Much of Ireland’s history for the past two thousand years has
been written in and around the venerable city of Armagh,
the ecclesiastical capital of the country. This beautiful inland city,
thirty-seven miles from Belfast, is built on and around seven foothills
—and is dominated by its two great cathedrals—one Protestant
and the other Catholic—but both are dedicated to St. Patrick.
The building of the cathedral began on St. Patrick’s Day; 1840,
and was largely the creation of Archbishop Crolly. Money was
subscribed by people in many parts of the world, including gifts
from the Emperor and Empress of Austria. In the Bell Tower
hangs a fine carillon of thirty-nine bells, the largest of which weighs
two and a quarter tons.
The interior of the cathedral is even more imposing than its
outside appearance for it is richly ornamented with marbles, mosaic
and stained glass. Here can be seen examples of intricate Celtic
designs in mosaic taken from the famous Book of Kells, and other
ancient illuminated Irish manuscripts. The reredos is a splendid
example of Irish carving and over the Altar is a window of seven
lights, part of which represents the Crucifixion.
The pulpit, which is one of the finest in the British Isles, is
the work of the distinguished Signor Medici of Rome. It is beautifully
sculptured and inlaid with various marbles. The High Altar of
Carrara Marble has a representation of Leonardo da Vinci’s picture
of the “Last Supper.”
It is the pride of Armagh that two of its sons achieved fame
in America; the Rev. William Tennant, who founded Log College,
which later became Princeton University, and George Armstrong,
who founded the United States Mail Service.
No. 364: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt


r.OO KM IXTJK. Box 26U. 0.P.0.. Sydney.
A service for renders. That difficult to
obtain volume, let wx tiud it for vou-< t)ctron
text book, bioKraphy. history, etc. Motleraos
tee only If success tut.
The Red Page
KENDALL
In his biographical and critical
introduction to Selected Poems of
Henry Kendall (Angus and Robertson)
T. Inglis Moore is so complete and
satisfying as to leave practically
nothing for a reviewer to say. Seek-
ing a desperate foothold on this cliff
of perfection one might take Moore’s
opinion, in his assessment of Kendall’s
place among Australian poets, that he
is “superior to Gordon.”
Now there is nothing in Kendall that
comes within cooee of Gordon’s “The
Swimmer” (and very little 'in Swin-
burne himself).
The closest comparison is between
Gordon’s “A Dedication” and
Kendall’s “September in Australia”;
and the distinction is partly in the
argumentation. The argumentation of
a lyric is not important philosophic-
ally, but structurally it serves to lead
the reader from image to image.
Gordon’s is simple and direct: it is
hard to sing of an unusual land where
the birds don’t sing and the flowers
don’t smell—and he proceeds to find
what there is to sing about. Kendall’s
argumentation is more ambitious:
September is a welcome guest after
wearisome winter, and Kendall and
September discuss their “loves and
losses” for five stanzas, at the end of
which he kisses her and puts her to
sleep among the flowers. Here the
personification breaks down, and he
has to go the last three stanzas without
her.
With the imperfection and uncertainty
of Kendall’s construction goes a vague-
ness of statement. His drawing of the
girl is charming:—
September, the maid with the swift,
silver feet,
She glides, and she graces
The valleys of coolness, the slopes
of the heat
With her blossomy traces ;
Sweet month with a mouth that is
made of a rose . . .
but only if you don’t see her beside the
swift, sure drawing of Gordon:—
Where, with fire and fierce drought
on her tresses
Insatiable Summer oppresses
Sere woodlands and sad wildernesses.
Kendall’s “blossomy traces” and “Day
going down with a song on its lips
Whose keynote is passion” are a poor
showing beside the definite images of
Gordon: the “dusk of the sky, with
streaks like the reddening of apples,
the ripening of rye”; and, to summarise
the difference, take Kendall’s: —
O, season of changes—of shadow
and shine —
September the splendid!
and Gordon’s:—
In the Spring, when the wattle-gold
trembles
’Twixt shadow and shine . . .
Kendall dissipates the picture; Gordon
concentrates it. Kendall’s poem has
one otherdine moment: —
Far out in the fierce bitter front of
the sea
I stand and remember
Dead things that were brothers and
sisters of thee,
Resplendent September ;
but if he stands in front of the sea
he has to stand beside Gordon’s
“Swimmer”; and in that company he
just doesn’t exist.
The vagueness which wearies the
reader in most of Kendall’s lyrics is
least to be found in “Bellbirds”; but
here the rhymes take over the dissipat-
ing of attention; as soon as he mentions
“daytime” one shudders at the
certainty of its being followed ingeni-
ously by “May-time”; and one winces,
when he says “hurtle,” at the thought
of its being hit on the head with
“myrtle.”
The rhythmic devices for which
Aldous Huxley pilloried Poe in his
essay on “Vulgarity in Literature” are
pushed to their utmost in “Beyond
Kerguelen,” the poem which Oscar
Wilde praised for its “marvellous
music” and which inspired Roy
Campbell to write his “Tristan da
Cunha” (Inglis Moore’s notes make
one almost omniscient); —-
Down in the South, by the waste
with no sail on it —
Far from the zone of the blossom
and tree —
Listh, with winter and whirlwind
and wail on it,
Ghost of a land by the ghost of a
sea.
Weird is the mist from the summit
to base of it;
Sun of its heaven is wizened and
grey;
Phantom of light is the light on the
face of it . . .
These alternate “on its,” “of its,” “in
thems,” etc., persist throughout the
poem, which could easily have been
reduced to: —
Down in the South, by the waste
with no sail,
Far from the zone of the blossom
and tree,
lieffa, with winter and whirlwind
and wail,
Ghost of a land by the ghost of a
sea.
Weird is the mist from the summit
to base,
Sun of its heaven is wizened and
grey,
Phantom of light is the light of its
face . . .
It says something for the penetration
of Wilde and Campbell that they could
get past so mechanical a device to the
germ of real poetry, which is mainly
that a desolate island has poetic possi-
bilities . . . But all this is no news
to Inglis Moore, who says:—
Often he succumbed to the obvious
alliteration and the showy, but
shallow, phrase.... Kendall had a
fatal facility with words,, so that
he often grew garrulous and diffuse.
The original energy is dissipated in
a welter of words. An equal fluency
with rhythms betrayed him into
metrical regularity, creating
monotony.
So much one might have expected;
but Moore really does Kendall and
the reader a service when he points
out, what must at first seem para-
doxical, that Kendall is far more at
home telling a story, and even a classi-
cal story, than in romantic lyricism;
for instance, in the short poem,
“Daphne,” the picture of Apollo
chasing:—
Vext with gleams of Ladon's
daughter, dashed along the son
of Jove,
Fast upon flower-trammelled Daphne
fleeting on from grove to grove;
Flights of seawind hard behind him,
breaths of bleak and whistling
straits ;
Drills of driving cloud above him,
like a troop of fierce-eyed
fates!
So he reached the water-shallows;
then he stayed his steps, and
heard
Daphne drop upon the grasses,
fluttering like a wounded
bird . . .
Even if the metre is claptrap, the
picture is clear, well-organised and full
of life; and again, in the blank verse
of “Telegonus” one could never
recognise the author of “September”
—it is a change of masters, from
Swinburne back to Tennyson:—
Then huge Ulysses, like a fire of
fight,
Sprang sideways on the flying car,
and drave
Full at the brass-clad warrior of
the North
His massive spear; but fleet
Telegonus
Stooped from the death, but heard
the speedy lance
Sing like a thin wind through the
steaming air . . .
And if it is considered that passable
“classical” poems are two-a-penny,
then in the blank verse of “A Death
in the Bush” Kendall may be seen to
retrieve the vagaries of his lyrics with
("Red Page" continued on page 58)


yS»N
*
ft*
2Si
M
*( i
* A •
JCt
CASltl
NEW
ft
2L12
ADELAIDE
MELBOURNE
v t '
C-?
H
T
R
E
P
:w
Y
N
D
SY
vV. *
N
0
0
G
E
LONG
M
AiS
7
N
* r^v:
?Lr-.-v-
-••■/■**« fV
■ K
v>
*
?
\,W-
-■■-<
U-*
*
AH Over Australia...
North, South, East, West, throughout this fair land of ours, Elders have developed, giving to the “Man-
on-the-Land” the facilities of the Elder Organisation. The name Elders was known to our pioneer families
as far back as 1839, and brought to them the essentials of a growing nation. To-day the activities of 170
Elder branches in Australia cover Wool, Land and Livestock, Merchandise, Insurance, Skins and Hides,
Rural Banking, Shipping, Travel and Chartering.
"SERVICE TO THE MAN-ON-THE-LAND"
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED
ADELAIDE, PERTH, ALBANY, MELBOURNE, GEELONG, SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE, LONDON
with which are amalgamated
THE COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE CO. LTD., SYDNEY
NENCO LIMITED. NEWCASTLE
MOREHEADS LIMITED. BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 28, 1957
Vol. 78—No. 4046
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne. t
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathans Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE RACE FOR SAFETY
THE Malayan Federation will come
about on August 31. But if the West
does not look after “independent”
Malaya and keep it in one piece—or
rather two pieces, for Singapore will
be another “independent” State within
the Commonwealth —the Chinese and
the Russians will, with the usual effects.
The Malayan Peninsula is at present
the only part of eastern continental
Asia which is not imminently threatened
with Communist control, and the only
one in which, thanks to Commonwealth
military operations. Communism's tide
has receded to some extent.
However, it still remains to be seen
what lies under the soil when
“merdeka” is complete. What most
people who know the easygoing Malay
are afraid of is that the Chinese will
betray the new Federation as swiftly
as possible.
It is an ironic fact that while the
argument for independence has been
that the British were foreign usurpers,
the people who have most strongly pro-
duced the argument have been the
Chinese, who are, generally speaking,
newer in the country than the British,
and who came there as they came to
Hong Kong—because they knew that
under British rule they could live quiet
and peaceful and carry on their busi-
nesses without suffering “squeeze”
or murder. Now their community has
been infiltrated to the heart with
Communist agents, who were treated
like heroes at the end of the war. given
medals and the credit for having
fought the Japanese—which they
hadn’t.
Malaya as a whole is about twice
the size of Tasmania, and it now holds
about 3.048.000 Malaysians. 2.400.000
Chinese, t h r e e-quarters-of-a-million
Indians and less than 100.000
Europeans. However, the Malays are
now in a minority, even though the 11
States into which the Federation is
divided are all “ruled” by Malayan
rajahs.
Each State has had its own land
laws and other laws, and it has been
mainly left to outsiders to try to make
some sort of a whole of the hotchpotch.
Australia, apart from having a bajttalion
of the Army in the Peninsula, has
played a considerable part in the work
of Constitutional construction. Sir
William McKell was a member of the
Constitutional Commission, and Mr.
W. L. Payne, president of the Queens-
land Land Court, and the able consoli-
dator of Queensland land laws over
many years before he assumed judicial
office, has been brigaded with a British
civil servant (whose experience has been
mainly in Africa) and an Indian
nominee of Nehru, in trying to produce
a workable Federal land-system—if
anybody can do it, Mr. Payne can on
the basis of his ordering of the awful
muddle which used to be called the
Land Act of Queensland. An Aus-
tralian banker is helping with the
establishment of a central bank.
Already the struggle for racial
supremacy is on in the new Malaya,
but this is momentarily most important
from the point of view of economics. If
the Communist infiltrators can succeed
in keeping the country disturbed, its
income down and its people subject to
a continual state of sabotage and
turmoil, it must fall eventually within
the borders of the Iron Curtain. It can
expect little help from its other
Commonwealth neighbors, since
Burma has not the power to help, and
Nehru will yield to anything Com-
munist China desires when it comes to
the point.
The matter is vitally important to
Australia, and the more so in view of
the steady drift to Communism via
chaos in Indonesia. A fully Communist
Indonesia would make the position of
Malaya very difficult. At the same
time a strong Malaya, ably defended,
would be a thorn in the side of the
Chinese imperialists of Peking, and
make it more difficult to extend the
Iron Curtain border in S.-e. Asia.
From our point of view, Malaya is
a valuable source of raw materials,
particularly rubber, a jumping-off place
for attack on the Australian north and
an air-crossroads of inestimable impor-
tance. By fast bomber it is about
three hours distant from the nearest
point of the Australian coast. And as
a submarine-base for the Russian fleet
its ports —Swettenham. Singapore, and
the rest —could become a nest of vipers.
It is quite obvious that the defence
of the Pacific and the Westernised
section of the East Indies and Malaya
are integral, whatever the form of
Government and whoever controls
these areas.
The changes now taking place, both
in Malaya and in North Borneo (where
Soekarno is intriguing to drive the
British out), and in New Guinea (where
he is openly seeking a foothold), add to
the importance of Australia as a defence
base. It is, in faot, the key to the
whole situation.
The Western Allies, while they hold
it, can never be outflanked, unless they
are foolish enough to allow the Soviet
Union to develop its Antarctic bases.
Judging by the trends of discussion
in Canberra this is fully realised. And
it is also recognised that Australia
becomes more important to our
enemies, and that everything possible
will be done to weaken our defences
through Communist infiltration.
Mr. Duncan Sandys said during the
week that the Woomera Range was
peculiarly of vital concern in the
development of inter - continental
weapons, because the facilities there
are “unequalled anywhere else in the
world’’; in fact,
unique, and with the greater emphasis
being placed on the long-range strategic
ballistic rocket, the great size and length
of the Woomera Range and its exten-
sions will come into their own....We
are notv coming into a period when we
shall need the great expanse and length
which Woomera alone in the world
offers for rocket development.
The rest of his statement is hearten-
ing—more so than the Australian
expositions of the situation. He has
made it clear that British land, sea and
air forces will be maintained in the
Seato area on a substantial scale, and
that these will include in due course
an element of nuclear power.
The United Kingdom at last is
vitally sold on Seato defence and
apparently is ready to do a considerable
part in putting teeth into the whole
project, through the stockpiling of
nuclear weapons and the provision of
tactical weapon-carriers which can
reach from their bases any part of the
South-east Asia area in a few hours.
It is to be hoped that when Mr.
Menzies makes his statement on defence
this will include an exposition of the
strategic importance of Australia in
the new set-up and that it will also
make it clear that no attempts at
sabotage by Communists and their
followers, even if those followers
shelter within the ranks of the
A.L.P.. will be tolerated. It is also
necessary that it should be more plain
that the new Malaya is part of the
Australian defence area.
The implementation of the new
defence-network by all the Powers
involved is in a real sense a race against
time ; a race to make the Pacific and
Indian Ocean bases safe before sub-
version and the building-up of huge
masses of military manpower lead to
the overrunning of the Malayan and
Indonesian areas.
Whatever is happening behind the
scenes, Australia has the appearance
at the moment of “running dead.”


(ANDREW) FISHER'S GHOST!
"Like one who on a lonely fence doth sit in fear and dread,
Because fee knows a frightful fiend is close behind his head.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
From Suez to Syria
It is small comfort that less than a year
after the tragedy of Suez, American
political and public opinion is beginning
to realise the extent of the disaster into
which the world has been pushed by the
policy of implacable Washington opposi-
tion to the British and French in the
Suez matter.
Some time ago the American Senate
appointed a sub-committee to inquire
into the facts of Suez and American
policy in the Middle East, but Mr. Dulles
and his officials choked it with a huge,
swamping mass of documents from the
State Department, the bulk of them
labelled “secret,” so that no public use
could be made of them. The sub-
committee gave up.
It has, therefore, been left for Senator
Fulbright, one of the most influential
and trusted of U.S. Congressmen and a
consistent worker for accord and unity
of thought between the English-Speaking
peoples, who headed the committee, to
summarise personally what he found.
He said that what he saw had con-
vinced him that Mr. Dulles’s policy was
“ill-considered... .influenced too much
by emotion and not enough by hard-
headed realities.”
He revealed that Mr. Dulles’s decision
not to provide U.S. money to help build
the Asw'an Dam—a decision which threw
Nasser into the hands of Moscow —was
made “against the advice of the U.S.
Ambassador to Egypt and the president
of the International Bank.”
The Senator said that the withdrawal
of the specific U.S. offer had been the
direct cause of the seizure of the canal —-
which was not, of course, America’s
canal. And this in turn led to the out-
break of hostilities, “to the serious
deterioration of our relations with leading
Allies, to the severe oil-shortage in
Europe and to economic dislocations in
other parts of the world.”
It, of course, led to more than that.
It led to the destruction of British and
French influence in the Middle East,
created a vacuum, assured the Russians
that in future they need only consider the
Americans in diplomacy—raw people
with little knowledge of the Arabs —and
gave them the clear Red light to go ahead.
As Senator Fulbright has pointed out,
the U.S. has spent in a few months on
the useless Eisenhower doctrine —at which
the Russians are laughing heartily—more
than they were committed to advance in
a decade for the Aswan project. And the
Senator added grimly that Russian
influence has increased as a direct result
of the Washington policy and that because
of it “the Soviet toehold in Egypt has
become a hammerlock on a country
which might otherwise have stayed
relatively free from influence by the
Communist orbit.”
He brushed aside the feeble Washington
excuse that the withdrawal from the
Aswan project was due to a substantial
worsening of the Egyptian position and
Egypt's flirtation with Russia. He, in fact,
blows-out the whole argument by making
it clear that the American offer to help
with Aswan was first advanced after
Egypt had made an arms-deal with Russia
and had mortgaged its cotton crop to
pay for it.
At present the Eisenhower-Dulles policy
is in jeopardy. The pleas of the Presi-
dent for a full quota of foreign aid have
been ignored by the legislature. Ameri-
cans are flouting the refusal of the State
Department to issue passports for
travellers to Red China and are going
there.
But Mr. Dulles seems determined to
continue his unfriendly way. The U.S.
abstention from a vote on the Oman
trouble in the Security Council once more
aided Russia. It is no wonder that Russia
has apparently ignored world opinion
and virtually taken over Syria as a base
from which to attempt to absorb the
Middle East.
Both Sides Win
High Court decisions are judgments,
not advice or admonitions, but, for ail
that; the purport of last Friday’s judg-
ment in the uniform-tax case seems to be
that the States have every right to go
ahead and levy a separate income-tax if
they wish, but that they’ll be very foolish
if they try to do so.
Their Honors decided, by four wigs to
three, that the Commonwealth has no
priority over the States in the collection of
income-tax and that the section [221
(1) (tf)] of the Income Tax Act arrogating
to it this power is ultra vires the Consti-
tution. The effect of this is clearly that
the States have the right to impose
income-tax if they choose to do so. On
this point the decision was a victory of
the challenging States, Victoria and N. S.
Wales.
However, the other portion of the
judgment to make the victory
rather a hollow one. The court unani-
mously decided that the State Grants
(Income Tax Reimbursement) Act was
valid in its entirety.
The significance of this is that grants
are made only to States which do not
impose their own income-tax. Under the
Constitution the Commonwealth cannot
discriminate between the States ; it must
levy the same rate of tax in every State.
If, therefore, a State decides to take
advantage of the first decision and levy
its own tax, its citizens will still have to
pay in addition the full Federal tax,
although their State Treasury will be
receiving no reimbursements to cover
their contributions to the Canberra cash-
desk.
•The Commonwealth could, of course,
reduce its own rate by sufficient to cover
its reduced liability for reimbursement,
but this saving would be shared by the tax-
payers in the other five States.
The Prime Minister and the Federal
Treasurer have expressed the view that
the judgment will not alter the present
taxation set-up at all an opinion
apparently held also by the Chief Justice,
who remarked on Friday that he was
sceptical as to the practical importance of
the decision on Section 221. Mr. Bolte,
however, has acclaimed the judgment as
a complete vindication of his action in
challenging the legislation. He has asked
for an early Premiers’ Conference to dis-
cuss the situation and has expressed the
view that the Commonwealth will now be
anxious to end uniform-taxation. This
seems most unlikely.
One thing seems definite —that there
will be no more attempts to end uniform-
taxation by appeal to the court. The
Prime Minister long ago told the Premiers
they were welcome to end it if they could
evolve an effective alternative. They
have made no serious attempt to do so,
and as far as the majority of them are
concerned there appears little likelihood
of any action.
KafgoorEie in the Fray
The coming weeks hold Dr. Evatt’s, and
perhaps the Federal Labor party’s, fate
in their maw, and it is beyond doubt that
the rift over the leadership is wider than
the A.L.P. would like to have the outside
world imagine. Five State A.L.P. branches
support Dr. Evatt; but caucus is another
matter.
The real figure of mystery is E. J. Ward,
who stoutly affirms his loyalty to Dr.
Evatt, and, on television and elsewhere,
has been enunciating an A.L.P. policy
which certainly is not the same policy
enunciated by the doctor.
Eddie Ward is apparently a real old-
fashioned Laborite. His policy and plan
go back to the year 1921. They are the
Gardenism of the 1921 Socialisation Con-
ference, complete with a Parliament sub-
servient to workers’ soviets and the
Supreme Economic Council elected by the
unions which would become the over-
riding assembly. In fact, though he does
not say so, Mr. Ward’s Socialism is the
Socialism of the Kremlin, and, as he
describes it, goes very much further than
Dr. Evatt has ever admitted that he would
be prepared to go.
Eddie Ward visited Adelaide a few
days ago, and while there stayed with his
old Ministerial colleague Mr. Chambers.
It was confidently forecast that after this
social get-together Mr. Chambers would
be a different man, as he usually was
after Mr. Ward shook a finger at him
when they were in the Government.
So far from being cowed —or showing
any signs of any attempt being made to
cow him—Mr. Chambers seemed livelier
than ever afterwards and was joined in his
intransigence by a more formidable
character, one who hates Dr. Evatt with
a workmanlike hate and whose member-
ship for a W.A. constituency places him
in a privileged position with the Federal
president of the A.L.P., Mr. Chamber-
lain.
Mr. H. V. Johnson (Kalgoorlie) is an
accomplished A.W.U. organiser who
has been travelling the State from end to
end for 40 years—he was general presi-
dent of the A.W.U., 1942-48, and was the
Labor's Interior Minister, 1945-49. He
has been chairman of the Australian
“Worker” board and other institutions
which place him in a strategic position.
He is quite uninhibited, in his latest
attacks—he says that since the death


of Chifley the party has been
steadily disintegrating under D r.
Evalt's hand ; that he “not only
lacks principle, but understanding of
principle” ; that he hasn’t the necessary
background to be a Labor leader ; that
men in the party are afraid to get out of
line for fear of victimisation ; and that
his raising of the sectarian issue is one of
the greatest tragedies in the history of the
party and “can lead only to the destruc-
tion of work by great and loyal men
in the last 70 years.”
It is not a pretty picture. Threats,
tortuous manoeuvre, chicanery and abuse
are the ingredients. On the face of it no
situation can be developed in which
Labor can solve its difficulties and remain
in one piece, except by a devastating
compromise. Nobody, however, wants a
complete break-up, or even a breakaway.
There are at least a dozen members who
would have moved to the cross-benches
already if they had the courage, but they
are more frightened of Dr. Evatt than
of their consciences.
.The Federal Parliament urgently needs
an efficient, critical Opposition. The
absence of one is bad for the Govern-
ment and bad for the country. But it is
not likely to get one in this Parliament.
Fighter-aircraft Costs
The cost of departmental hesitancy and
miscalculation is shown in the case of
the Avon Sabre jet-fighter being built by
the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation
at Fishermen’s Bend (Vic.).
vThe Government has been toying with
the idea of switching-over to American
Starfighters ; but for a variety of reasons
(including the insuperable present one of
unavailability) it isn’t going on with that
plan. So it has inferred that it will stick
to Avon Sabres.
But no new order has yet been given to
the manufacturers ; and the time-lag will
mean that there will be such a long break
in the flow of production that the skilled
work-force at Fishermen’s Bend will have
to be dispersed, or else kept on for a
lengthy period w'ith nothing to do.
In either case the cost of training a
new staff, or the cost of retaining the
old, will be added to the price of the
aircraft.
Service departments and the Treasury
should make a sort of time-and-motion
study of the case of the Australian Avon
Sabre. It has in it a number of planning
and production principles that have
application throughout the economy.
Pay in the Professions
A survey made by the Victorian Uni-
versity Appointments Board, based on
9541 replies to 16,831 questionnaires sent
to professional men and women through-
out Victoria, has established that
the average doctor earned £2890
a year at 39 (rising to £3650 at 50) ;
solicitors £2310 at 43 ; dentists £2llO at
35; architects £lBlO at 39; chemists
£l7lO at 36, and agricultural scientists
£1560 at 35. Women professionals earned
about half of these figures, frequently less
than women in non-professional
occupations.
The survey didn’t range outside Vic-
toria, but the board is acutely aware of
the disparity in salaries for engineers,
since a graduate can start in Canada at
£IBSO, but does not reach this income
here until he is 40. Young Australian
migrant engineers in Canada report living-
costs much the same as here and an
apparently insatiable demand for
engineers; great American firms now
advertise not merely jobs for graduates
but reasons why parents should guide
their youngsters to an engineering course.
The agricultural scientists’ income, the
most miserable of all—due to the com-
munity’s lack of interest in scientists,
according to the redoubtable Sir lan
Clunies Ross, chairman of the Com-
monwealth Scientific and Industrial
Research Organisation is partly
explained in Victoria at least by the
attitude towards the Agricultural Depart-
ment by the Dunstan Government.
Book (and Other) Learning
Education Week, splendidly organised
and intelligently promoted by the appro-
priate Government department, has been
sponsored in Victoria with two purposes,
according to A. H. Ramsay, Director of
Education. It has at least achieved a
third—the publicising of education.
The department’s objects during the
week were to get the parents to their
children’s schools to see the work being
done, the changing methods of education
and to bring the parents and teachers
together so that the teacher would under-
stand each child better and help him
more ; and to bring before the parent-
public the progress that has been made in
accommodation amd amenities in the State
most swollen by migrants and their off-
spring.
The meeting on an amicable level of
the teachers and parents and its effects
on the students can be measured only in
the years, to come, but it must be bene-
ficial. The achievements of the depart-
ment are visible throughout the State.
In the past four years the number of
new classrooms added each year has
increased by 600, 670, 800 and 874
respectively, and almost all important
country schools have had craft-wings
added (at £30,000 apiece) in which boys
are taught to work with metal and wood,
and girls are taught cooking, house-
work, needlework and laundry. In each
of the last three years, 1100 teachers have
been added to the staffs. About 700 new
teachers a year are needed to undertake
the education of the incoming scholars
and several hundred more are required for
the division of classes still overlarge.
The Week has, however, succeeded in
bringing education itself before the
public, the problems of the schools and
teachers and the necessity for better-
educated young citizens. This is due to
the imaginative programme by the educa-
tion authorities and an excellent press
and radio acceptance and co-operation
with it.
Almost all of this, understandably
enough, has been presented from the
departmental and teachers’ viewpoints
with the bland acceptance of the belief
that parents have as much time off daily
work or home-duties as teachers them*
selves, and that education consists com-
pletely of what is found in the school
curriculum. A mention of Melbourne’s
first-class theatre, magnificent National
Gallery and friendly bookshops, at least,
would have pleased the enthusiasts for a
more liberal education of youngsters.
Two critics appeared during the week.
Sutton, a Labor M.L.A., complained in a
Labor Hour broadcast of a booklet issued
by the Associated Chambers of Commerce
to inform teachers of the conduct,
management and financing of modern
industrial and commercial uhdertakings
“to get,” he said, “at the minds of children
through the minds of teachers.” In other
words, the children should be kept in
ignorance of how industry ticks so that
Labor politicians can fill their minds
with lies about the Machinations of Big
Business.
Dr. R. D. Goodman, headmaster of
Malvern Grammar School, came up with
the suggestion that the present system of
control by a Minister, a director and a
department had outlived its usefulness
and should be replaced by an authority
on the lines of the Australian Broadcast-
ing Commission ; the greatest danger to
the democratic State, he says, is the
growth of power by the Government and
the consequent elimination of all inter-
mediate groups between it and the
citizens.
Biding Time
[ From “Collins Street”J
The influence of a minority in the State
Liberal party has been responsible for
the rejection by the Victoria Racing Club
of the proposal to permit selected book-
makess to take off-course bets by tele-
phone, as the A.J.C. has authorised in
New South Wales.
The plan had been backed by influen-
tial racing-men as a stopgap measure
until the Bolte Government introduces
the off-course totalisator, on the lines
of the machine operating in New
Zealand, which has been approved by
State Cabinet but held in check at the
dictation of the narrow minority and the
fears they have been able to instil in other
members of the party.
The off-course telephone to book-
makers would have harnessed some of
the large amount of betting, now untaxed,
for the Government and the racing-
clubs, and could, in fact, have been ear-
marked for the specific purpose of
establishing the off-course totalisator,
which will be costly; but the V.R.C.
itself by its decision has shown an exces-
sive prudence in avoiding any act that
might be regarded as embarrassing, or
nudging, the Government into action.
Almost every hotel in Melbourne
currently has its policeman outside, or
round the corner, on Saturday afternoons
in an effort to stop the ingrained and
incorrigible two-bob-each-way trade. In
a State which has fewer policemen a
head of population than any other State,
this is an enormous waste.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Wusslean”: Magazine fashion-pages
convince me models are a race apart;
that invariable dead-pan expression ; that
stance which no woman who values her
appearance would ever adopt: the wide-
stride pose, feet a full yard apart,
presumably to emphasise the pattern or
fullness of the garment; one leg behind
the other, to accentuate pencil-slimness
(the dress is pinned closely behind, I
understand, to delude one into thinking
that the dress will cling to the figure); and
the curved-back pose, the stomach thrust
well forward and the head well back, so
that you wonder why she doesn’t over-
balance. The latest dodge seems to be to
stand on one leg, with the other tucked
up out of sight, like a pensive crane. Ah,
to attend a fashion-parade with a pea-
shooter !
♦♦♦ *> $
“J.H.”: The new Queensland Govern-
ment is considering an American innova-
tion that men serving short terms of
imprisonment for minor misdeeds pay
their debt to society in weekend instal-
ments, leaving them free to be gainfully
employed through the week. Attorney-
General Munro says weekend crowding
and officials’ intake- and discharge-duties
would be increased. Apparently time-
payment can be adapted to cover all
debts.
*£►
“Lorna Doone”: I can recall one
exception to . “Bookie's Dog” (B.
14/8/’57) on lady punters seldom con-
sulting the form-guide at the races.
I met up with an elderly spinster on
the course and she asked me what I was
going to back. I said I’d have to con-
sult the paper, and produced the lift-out
section of a well-known publication.
“Oh,” said she, “so you go by that paper,
too, do you? We always get it. We have
the guts for Saturday, and the tripe for
Sunday!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bellfield”: One of the first lessons in
good manners we learn is to avoid staring
at the physically-afflicted, yet everybody
the amputee passed in Oxford Street,
Sydney, turned and gaped at him. But
he, apparently quite happy and contented,
went on his way, walking quickly and
without a very noticeable limp. Some-
body must have valued him pretty highly,
even though he was only a very fat
mongrel fox-terrier, for when a vet.
neatly removes a dog’s front leg from
the shoulder-socket, cleverly restoring the
skin so that no scar is visible, somebody
is going to be up for a packet.
♦> *S
“Miss M.”: My New Australian
friend, a domestic in a well-to-do house-
hold, resents all this talk about Italian
dialects. “In Italy,” she says, “many
people speak good Italian. In Australia,
not many speak good English.” As an
instance, “Missus ask me something, I
say ‘Yep.’ Missus say, ‘Serafina, wherever
you hear that dreadful talk? I say, ‘From
your children, Mrs. Smythe.’ ”
*»♦
“ ’Arvey”: It's hard to follow the
thought-processes of actresses. Vivien
Leigh was very vocal about the demoli-
tion of the St. James Theatre (London)
when the Stoll Theatre in which she was
then appearing with her husband in
“Titus Andronicus” was also due for
"We refused to let him bring his girl-friend home!”
THERE’S GOLD IN THEM
THAR GERMS
“Sydney’s winter disease-scare m the news-
papers culminated in the ‘Sun-Herald s
description of the rare disease uom
Staphylococcus aureus as ‘The Golden Death.
Don’t be seen with fibrositis.
It’s as ancient as the gout;
Get hep to hepatitis
Before the vogue goes out,
Or —what could be more glorious
Than giving up your breath
To Staphylococcus aureus,
Exclusive Golden Death?
The shrewd “Sun-Herald” found it
In a doctors’ lexicon ;
They hastened to propound it;
. They say it’s catching on!
Your friends will all be jealous . . .
But it’s very hard to get;
Still, the eager headlines tell us
That you may be lucky yet!
There’s a mighty public waiting,
Glumly waiting to be sold
Something more exhilarating
Than a vulgar, common cold;
Not a fortnight full of sneezes,
But exotic Asian ’FIu —
So trade-in your old diseases,
And die of something new!
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


conversion into business offices. Yet not
a line did she speak for this large and
famous theatre, where Diaghilev
presented the Ballet Russe soon after the
First World War and where season after
season of Italian opera was performed.
Funny things, women.
*X* *** ♦>
“Mcßon”: A motorist charged in a
northern N.S.W. court with drunken
driving _ admitted having had three
whiskies about an hour before being
booked, but contended that as the accident
in which he was involved was due to a
blowout his indulgence was not a con-
tributing factor. The magistrate said that
if the defendant had been stone-cold
sober he would have been better enabled
to minimise the effect of the accident;
but the defendant’s plea seems to have
minimised the effect of the law to no more
than a £5O bond for three years.
*!* «£♦
“Jez”: When one of the most respected
old ladies in our district died our paper
ran an account of her life. Her kindness,
her virtues as a wife and mother, her
interest in public affairs, were duly
stressed, and the article concluded: “As
all who knew Mrs. will agree,
a finer woman never walked'the streets
of our town.”
*X* *X* *X*
“Narumee”: I’m, glad that the great
pastel era seems to be waning, and the
mania for “matching”, giving way to the
craze for “clashing.” Pastels may be
soothing, but not when you’re constantly
having to scrub, wash and clean paint-
work, curtains, covers and bedspreads.
The London “Listener” says the most
colorful age ever known was the first
Elizabethan ; furnishings listed from a
late sixteenth-century middle-class home
include: “Cushions of blue-and-yellow
upon red flaminge, and cushions of black-
and-green,” a bedroom with red-and-
green curtains with fringes to match,
hangings depicting the story of Joseph,
and a bed draped with blue-and-yellow
taffeta. Won’t color-schemes of this type
make shopping easier and quicker? No
more trailing from store to store trying to
match one of those thirty-eight inter-
pretations of mushroom-pink!
“Zake”: I see that the head of a big
air-conditioning company predicts that
in the foreseeable future small solar-
batteries will generate the power to cool
the thermo-electric clothes men will then
be wearing. We will then have achieved,
very expensively, air-conditioned clothes.
Oh, quite a novelty—or rather it was
when some Chow first hit on the idea a
few thousand years ago, when he decided
it would be much cooler wearing his shirt
outside his strides.
+Jt-
“Elgee”: “Kuching” complains (B.
14/8/’57) that it costs him £l5 a year to
feed his cat. What does his cat live on —
fillet steak? Our Tom is as sleek and
enjoys life, I think, as much as the next
cat, and with 31b. of horsemeat each week
at Bd. per lb. he costs £5 4s. a year —
and there’s a bit of meat left over for
him when he’s entertaining. And surely
we’ve heard the last of that sentimental
idea that all horses ought to be allowed to
die of old age. Nobody has such an
affection for old bulls and cows. Anyway,
if some people still think horses ought
to retire on a pension, “Kuching” might
like to figure out their feed-bill over a
year.
❖ »> ❖
“Bo”: Poetess, authoress, editress,
hostess—with equality in all things with
the lords of creation as the primary aim
of militant feminism, it remains a
wonder that those who propound the
theory so vigorously should not have
launched a campaign to wrench the suffix
off these and similar words which per-
petuate a difference, merely because of
sex, of those doing the same work.
Logica V I suppose, if there is an argu-
ment for its retention we would be
justified in having oflice-cleaneresses and
cookesses. I have never heard of a
woman who is expert with the foils
referred to as a fenceress ; and should
Dawn Fraser and Lorraine Crapp break
their world-records as swimmeresses?
And what about . . , excuse me now —I
just hear my helpmeetess calling!
❖ ♦> ❖
“Crambo”: Yes, he said, his son was
well, thank you—“ Just had a letter from
him ; says they’re having fine w-e-a-t-e-r:
if that’s Leaving English I s’pose he’s
about due to leave.”
“Doynest”: The latest Victorian lottery
is one in which few will want their
number drawn —it’s to decide jury service
under the State’s new Juries Act which
comes into force on September 1.
Numbers will be drawn from a barrel,
but the same number can’t be drawn more
than once in a “jury-year,” from June 1
to May 31. One consolation is that the
odds on drawing a blank are greater than
under previous jury-service arrangements:
bank-managers and -tellers, solicitors’
clerks, mining-managers, journalists and
most of the State’s public servants will
now be eligible, raising the total on the
jury- rolls from a mere 70,000 to several
hundred thousand.
<s*
“Pelham”: Estate-agents see how both
halves live: we collected rents from six
(6) sizeable villas in a Victorian suburb.
The dowager (89) owner of these pro-
perties insisted on interviewing the would-
be tenant before granting tenancy. Setting
out for her houses, a chain with several
keys attached to her waist, she would call
from her seat in the motor-car to her
younger sister (77 years) to bring a
parasol her collection gave her nine


different colors to choose from. After
her death we were temporarily overjoyed
by a letter from her trustees reading,
at the bottom of the first page, “In her
will Mrs. left you her six houses”
—-then on the next page the missive
continued —“to collect rents therefrom,
as usual.” Then there was a tenant, now
a Senator, who suggested that the owner
of his villa was not getting a fair return,
and offered 20 per cent, more rent. We
dealt with two blind buyers of houses.
One was a youngish blind man who
bought because he liked the perfume of
the roses and other flowers in the garden ;
he was accompanied by a solicitor’s wife.
The other was the blind middle-aged wife
of a bricklayer who had her son, a bank-
clerk, view the home with her. Banker-
son thought the place “too dear,” but
his blind mother bought, and confounded
his opinion by selling at a profit of £350
in less than four months.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Roomy”: “Uncle” is vanishing from
the English scene. In 1914 there were
5107 licensed pawnbroking establish-
ments and now there are fewer than
1000 because of better wages and living
conditions, and the National Health
Service. But I’m willing to bet “Uncle”
still survives in University cities. There
are five firms swinging three golden balls
in Melbourne, and from the number of
microscopes and musical instruments
they’ve got shelved I surmise that hard-
up students here are on the old pop-and-
redeem routine, just as we used to be in
London twenty years back —microscopes
used to be good for from three to five
quid, and my boy-friend’s alto-sax.
fetched two-ten. The chap who played
the double-bass never got more than a
quid because “Uncle” said he ought to
charge rent /or the space it occupied!
<♦ +j+
“XC”: The radioman shook his head
when he saw what was left for his inspec-
tion. Usually, he explained, before a
transformer goes up in flames the enamel
on the wiring starts to melt and the unmis-
takable smell gives a warning that all is
not well. The bright young thing
admitted that the radio did smell a bit
“now that you mention it; but,” she said,
“I thought I fixed that by turning to
another station.”
♦:« *z*
“Bicky”: He had a pair of race-glasses
hanging from his shoulder and a worried
look on his face when I met him in the
city on Saturday morning. “Off to the
races?” I asked. “Yes,” he answered
pessimistically, “and I hope I break square
today—l need the dough badly.”
❖ ❖ *
“Abi Tonus”: Are susceptible persons
being unwittingly exposed to the modern
form of hypnosis called subception? In
the U.S.A. this has been used as a form
of advertising and has proved, its
supporters claim, an unqualified success.
It is a cinematograph that flashes images
on the screen so rapidly that the con-
tinuity is picked up only by the subcon-
scious mind and can be incorporated in
almost any programme without apparenf
break or interval. Such a method could
undoubtedly be used for propaganda, and
those who know are anxious to find out
how often this procedure is used.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Horseshoe Bar”: “How I ever grew-
up,” said the Ancient Uncle, who’d been
raised in an age of music-lessons and
decorum,“with six sisters and two pianos
in the house, I don’t know.”
+s► »*♦
“Dolphin”: Our cruiser approaching
a Jap-held island in an invasion- fleet,
a flight of American bombers droned
overhead and, in too great a hurry,
landed a stick of
bombs in the water
close to us. The
cruiser lurched with
the concussion.
Instantly an a.-a.
turret swivelled
to meet the “unex-
pected attack.” An
officer saw what was
happening. “Friendly
bombs, friendly
bombs!” he yelled.
A wild-eyed petty-
officer poked his
ferocious face out of
the turret. His voice crashed across the
deck: “Yeah, well let me send up a few
bloody friendly shells!”
THE PRICE OF PROGRESS
“American atomic scientist Peter Senior has
announced that he has succeeded in producing
square bubbles.”
Discoveries of the useful kind —
A shoe with neither sole nor heel;
An orange with unyielding rind;
A bell that lacks a tongue to peal ;
Cigars you can’t suck, but must blow;
A supersonic radio —
These would, I’m stressing,
Be boons. Yet not to be compared
With bubbles which, now they’ve been
squared,
Earn Mankind’s blessing.
Four-sided bubbles might (who knows?)
Yield longer life, rid us of warts
And relatives and hammer-toes,
Make everyone a champ, at sports.
They COULD, if they got out of hand.
Make frights of women, spoil the land,
Reduce to rubble
Cities. Yet we must forward go ;
We can’t turn back again and blow
The rounded bubble!
Science — oh, ain’t it wonderful!
We just can’t wait until we hear
They’ve put square bubbles in the cool
Tankard of foaming, amber beer.
It will be worth it, even though
While lashing into it you know
You might strike trouble
(Whether it’s Fourex, Tooth’s or Swan )
And lacerate your tonsil on
A sharp-edged bubble!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Let’s Go to Thomo’s!
By BILL HOWARD
BEFORE we got married Mum
delivered an ultimatum.
“You can keep on the Journalists
Club, but —make up your mind!,
—it’s either me or Thomo’s.”
Mum won. Moving to the bush it was
not so hard for even an addict to
give the game away. But recently, with a
four-day leave-pass in Sydney and under
several influences one nostalgia
we headed for the game.
Women can seldom understand the
fascination that a pair of jingling pennies
can have for a man. Although one chap
who runs a suburban two-up school, in
an attempt to sell swy to sheilas, now
programmes a Ladies Night every Thurs-
day. It must be quite a sight seeing the
women squatting on their haunches in
the traditional style shrilling: “I’ll back
the head for any dough!”
Recently a Sunday paper published a
photograph of a Paddo Sunday swy-
school —the same chap way back in 1942
used to run a famous Sunday-morning
game in the scrub back of the Randwick
rifle-range. Sunday newspaper “Struth”
tut-tuttingly published a photograph of
the game taken from a low-flying plane:
“Men gamble unmolested while Jap Army
only 1100 miles away.”
The following Sunday the gamesters
were pretty toey, thinking such indecent
publicity might draw the constabulary
crabs, and the cockatoos were alerted to
be doubly vigilant.
The other side of the hill from the
game was a militia mob doing jungle
exercises. The young loot admonished
his men: “1 want you to imagine an
enemy the other side of that hill. Crawl
through the scrub, and when
you reach the top fix bayonets
and tear down at them!
Frighten ’em by your ferocity
as well as your cold steel.”
The boys crawled through
the scrub so well that the
cockatoo drowsing in the
Sabbath sun missed their
approach. The players, see-
ing a mob of soldiers coming
at them with bayonets flash-
ing and screaming school war-
cries, yelled: “The cops .have
gone cuckoo! They’ve called
out the Army!”
They fled. The tubbiest of
’em broke evens. They left
quite mammoth uncollected
bets lying on the ground. The
boys praised the loot . . .
both loots, and next week
“Truth’s” circulation fell by
300.
Thomo’s and other less-
venerable schools received a
great fillip when thousands of
soldiers returned to civil life
with an Army-engendered
passion for the pennies . . .
AKEN as a youth to Thomo’s ump-
teen years ago, it was unfortunate
that, as a maiden performer, I “did a
dook” (a succession of heads), won a lot
of dough, and was an escort job.
Being an escort job is the highlight of a
two-up player’s career. Closed doors for
five minutes and burly escort through
dark lanes to taxi! More often it’s a
“slip” job ... a few bob slipped into
your hand for taxi-fares home. Does
the A.J.C. do this when you walk out
broke?
There are two games at Thomo’s. The
big game is called Randwick. The small
game Wyong. Sir Arthur Fadden note:
it is quite a significant symptom of a re-
turn to national economic normalcy that
at Wyong silver betting is now permitted.
Before, ten-bob was the minimum bet.
If you crack it you can graduate from
Wyong to Randwick, as you go from the
Leger to the Paddock after getting an
early winner.
Wyong is a rugged place. You get
literally pushed around by the big bloke
there to make room for new players. A
distinguished English actor taken to
Wyong was very indignant when given a
vigorous shove to move up, but he soon
adapted himself from crying ‘T shall back
a head for five-shillings, old boy” to
“Heads a caser, mate.”
Periodically the game “goes off,” and
the players are lumbered in a Black
Maria up to Dario boob. Someone pro-
duces pennies in the cells and starts
heading ’em until a cop arrives with an
admonition to “break it down,” and a
blanket comes into use to deaden the
noise of the pennies falling on the stone
floor.
Thomo’s pay all fines.
THE “slings” at Thomo’s are pretty
formidable. Four-bob in the pound
if you take the kip and do a dook.
Shrewdies seldom take the kip. Prefer to
bet on the side, where they can get away
with smaller “boxers.”
You have to be alert there. You are
laying the odds against yourself, even
after dining moderately.
There are many lurk-men prepared “to
clerk” (get your bets set) and sleeper-
snatchers—predatory characters poised to
dive on any momentarily overlooked
winning bet. It’s the rule at Thomo’s
that you can lay the odds.
“I’ll bet five-and-a-half the heads”
to 5 that heads come up), but you
are not allowed to call for the odds.
We know a Runyonish character who
lived on the game for 30 years . . . clerk-
ing for drunks or bushmen, and, of
course, getting his corner, and at the same
time not too proud to do a bit of sleeper-
snatching. As soon as he gets a bit of a
bank he hops in and bets solidly for him-
self. In war-time this man built up a five-
grand bank. Broke now, of course. It
was he who said: “Nothing’s too good
for a two-up player.” Meaning, when
you’re in front, eat the best and buy the
best. You’ll eventually send it all off,
but at least you’ll be sleek from filets
mignon and dressed like Saville Row.
This character worked one day once
when he was 15 and didn’t like it. He
(i Continued on page 57)
“Unaccustomed as I am to public speaking ... stick 'em up!"


POLITICAL POINTS
Nearly a third of Australia has now
declared against the poc. At least, that’s
the area represented by Labor-member
H. V. Johnson, who last week followed
Cyril Chambers in urging the party to
look for a new leader. Johnson’s Kal-
goorlie electorate includes virtually the
whole of W.A. north of the East-West
railway. The most devastating part of
his attack on his leader was, “Dr. Evatt
not only lacks principle; he lacks an
understanding of principle.”
• •
Ernest Shepherd, the favorite, duly
landed the leadership (at £3500 a year) of
the Victorian Parliamentary Labor party
in succession to John Cain, but an out-
sider, Clive Stoneham, photo-finished the
other three contenders for the job of
deputy (£2750).
Labor M.L.A.S voted with political
wisdom in Stoneham’s case as well as
Shepherd’s; the new 2 i/c is the most
experienced in portfolios, has been in
office as Minister for Transport, Agri-
culture, Water Supply, Decentralisation
and State Development, and is one of the
four country Labor M.L.A.s.
• •
North Queensland new-Staters have
taken heart at the Nicklin-Morris
victory. They intend to petition the new
Government for a referendum and will
hold their third convention at Charters
Towers on September 14 and 15.
• •
The New England New State Move-
ment aims at getting 100,000 signatures
to a petition calling on the N. S. Wales
Government to grant Statehood to New
England. As part of the drive for signa-
tures advantage will be taken of the
Richmond by-election on September 14
when canvassers will be operating near all
polling-booths.
• •
There’ll be an important by-election
in South Australia on Saturday when
the Wallaroo electorate will choose a
successor to the late L. R. Heath, who
was killed last month in a road accident.
Wallaroo has nearly always been a
Labor seat, but at the last election
Heath won it for the Liberals by 248
votes after the preference of an Inde-
pendent had been distributed. If the seat
returns to Labor the Playford Govern-
ment will lose its absolute majority and
will have to depend on the support of
the three Independents in the Assembly.
Present state of the House is: Liberals,
21 ; Labor, 15 ; Independents, 3.
Candidates for Saturday are H. A.
Dowling (Lib.) and L. Hughes (Lab.).
Both are popular local men, and voting
should be very close.
-• •
Ignoring a decision of the 1955 State
conference of the party that Parlia-
mentary candidates should be chosen by
preselection ballots of A.L.P. branches,
the Tasmanian executive of the party has
endorsed Senators O’Byrne and Aylett
and Dr. Gaha, M.H.A., as Labor’s
Senate team at the next election. Reason
given is that the preselection machinery is
unworkable, but some Labor men want to
know how the executive knows this, as
the machinery hasn’t been tried yet.
Braddon divisional council has already
passed a vote of no-confidence in the
executive.
• •
A by-election for Gregory, the late
Mines Minister Devries’s seat in the
Queensland Assembly, will be held on
October 5. W. A. Rae will retain the
Country-party nomination and A. Watson
should be the A.L.P. candidate, though
there’s a suggestion that he may stand
down in favor of Duggan. The Q.L.P.
will contest the election, but hasn’t
decided yet who’ll carry the banner.
• •
Some municipal councils, it appears,
have been making a welter of the sales-
tax exemption provisions by replacing
their motor-cars every year, in some
cases selling the “old” vehicles for more
than their original cost (free of sales-tax).
The Taxation Commissioner has now
ruled that to come within the definition
of “for use and not for sale” the cars
must be used for at least three years or
60,000 miles.
It is only a couple of years since one
Sydney municipal council was rebuked
for allowing some of its officers to buy
cars through the council and thus avoid
sales-tax.
• •
A count of the diminished (18) heads of
C.P. members of the Victorian Assembly
and Cofincil has shown 11 in favor of
continuing to support the Bolte Govern-
ment in the Council, where it is in a
minority.
Some of the others continue to flirt
with the chances of forcing a dissolution
in the session opening next week in the
fanciful hope of getting back on to the
Treasury benches with Labor support,
or, alternatively, of supporting a Labor
Government. However, Hyland, C.P.
leader in the Assembly, and Byrnes, his
offsider in the Council, reckon they’ve
done well so far out of squeezing Bolte
and may do better.
• •
“M.W.”: There’s a cool whiff of
unemployment in some areas and some of
the dailies suggest it is being played-
down because the Treasury planners
didn’t expect their plans to work out this
way. Harold Holt isn’t trying to minimise
the trend, but he has given an assurance
that the slack can be taken up in part by
such things as “reduced taxes to
encourage more enterprise,” more alloca-
tions to State Governments for public
works, and a more extensive programme
of Commonwealth public works. It will
be interesting to see which, if any, of these
are applied to the problem before the end
of September, the date on which Holt
predicts employment will pick-up.
• •
At least £150,000 a year is the hope-
ful estimate by the Victorian Commis-
sioners of the saving of their new loco,
the Matthew Flinders, pulling the Spirit
of Progress. It is the first of a fleet of
10 S-class engines. The 26 B-class main-
line and 27 T-class general-purpose diesel-
electrics now operating are saving £1
million a year.
Vic. Railways are spending millions
on a rehabilitation plan, “Operation
Phoenix,” to get freight and passenger
trade from the airways and road-trans-
ports, and spending it quickly. The
boom may not last for ever.
• •
Adelaide’s claim to be the “City of
Culture” has been built-up at the expense
of the country districts, if the chairman
of the Free Library Movement in S.A.
is right. He told a meeting in Adelaide
that forgers and blackmailers in English
jails had a better library service than
South Australians. The fault lay in hous-
ing all the State’s books in a central
library in the capital; he advocated
decentralisation and more travelling
libraries.
• •
It isn’t only in Australia that migrants
are complaining at having been enticed
away from home under false pretences.
In Vancouver the president of the New-
comers Club has charged Canadian
officials in London with “failing to tell
the whole truth to prospective British
migrants,” with the result that people who
have been led to believe that they would
find jobs waiting for them have often to
wait months before they can find employ-
ment. It seems to be the tendency of
migration officials to emulate the sundial,
which “only tells the sunny hours.”
• •
“Stromlo”: Although S. R. Carver has
not achieved his full goal of complete
integration of all State and Federal
statistical information, he has got far
enough to allow himself to accept the post
of Commonwealth Statistician, after being
“Acting” for six years. His determined
stand was finally responsible for N. S.
Wales becoming the fourth State to
accept integrated statistical services. Vic-
toria and Queensland are still aloof, but
Carver’s move suggests that they may
soon come into line, to the benefit of
statistics and taxpayers alike.


Federal Parliament emerged from
hibernation yesterday.’ The Budget
session is expected to last at least six
weeks. After the Estimates and associated
bills have been torn to verbal tatters
there’s the Banking Bill to be introduced
and the Japanese trade-agreement to be
discussed. Intensive lobbying on the last
item has already begun.
• •
The new Queensland Parliament opens
today. Old members will find it rather
strange at first, with Labor sitting on the
Opposition benches for the first time in a
quarter of a century and a complete team
of new Ministers doing their best to cope
with question-time. During its running-in
period the new Government will probably
be rather thankful that the • toughest
fighters and the main debating strength
among their opponents are in the Gair
Q.L.P. and not in the official Opposition.
• •
Although the final decision will have
to wait on distribution of preferences,
Liberal candidate Geoffrey Cox seems to
have won the Vaucluse (N.S.W.) Assembly
seat. With about 400 votes to be counted
the scores on Monday were: Cox (Lib.),
7541 ; Foster (Ind. Lib), 3726 ; Mills
(Ind. Lib.), 2547; Elboz (Ind.), 2304 ;
Spensley (Ind. Lab.), 666. At that stage
Cox needed only 15 per cent, of the
preferences to win. At the Federal by-
election for Wentworth (which includes
Vaucluse) last year Bury, the endorsed
Liberal, received 26 per cent, of the prefs.
Cox has an advantage Bury lacked ; he
is well known in the district.
The heavy vote recorded for the two
Independent Libs, gives strength to
Alderman Foster’s contention that in a
safe seat like Vaucluse the Liberal party
would be wise to agree to multiple
endorsements, as the Country party has
done in the case of Richmond.
• •
Bonegilla migrant centre reported last
week that jobs on the Queensland cane-
fields had just been found for 222 migrants
and that 130 others had been placed in
rural employment on farms and stations.
• •
A suggestion to be considered by the
A.C.T.U. at its congress in Sydney next
month is that the Labor party should
establish its own TV-station. If it comes
off there should be plenty of competition
for the job of running the “giveaway”
session.
• •
Date for return of the writ in the
Flinders (Q.) electorate was last week
extended to September 7 to permit a
check on 12 voting claims—the undecided
balance remaining out of 50 such claims.
Excluding these votes Lonergan (C.P.) is
leading Forde (Lab.) by 7 votes.
N. S. Wales pollies are on the
grab again. They are expected
in the current session to increase
their pensions by 50 per cent.,
making the scale £l5 a week after
nine years’ service or £lB a week
after 15 years. Their contributions will
also rise 50 per cent., but the net result
will be that taxpayers will have to sub-
sidise the scheme more than ever. Last
year consolidated revenue was called on
for nearly £BOOO to meet deficiencies in
sectional accounts of the fund.
• •
Harold Macmillan’s visit to Australia
next year will be the first by a British
Prime Minister while in office. Anthony
Eden came here when he was in Opposi-
tion and had planned to come again as
P.M., but the Suez affair and his resigna-
tion prevented it. Macmillan will visit
India, Pakistan, Ceylon and New Zealand
before reaching Australia on January 28.
He’ll stay till February 11.
• •
On Monday, Sydney’s wettest morning
for weeks, tram- and bus-services were
held-up by stop-work meetings. A union
official had said earlier that the time of
these meetings would be kept secret “so
that they would have maximum effect.”
Apparently “maximum effect” means
causing inconvenience to the greatest
possible number of passengers at the most
inconvenient time. The thousands of
people who stood waiting in the rain for
trams and buses held-up without notice at
the behest of petty trade-union dictators
had nothing to do with the squabble
between the crews and the Transport
Department, but they had to suffer all the
same.
• •
At its first annual convention which
elected R. Joshua, former M.H.R. for
Ballaarat, as Federal president, the D.L.P.
announced its opposition to the Banking
Bill and challenged the A.L.P. to see that
all its Senators are on hand to vote when
the measure comes before the Senate.
• •
“Wusslean”: Notwithstanding the easy-
come, easy-go customs of Pentridge in
the past, which made 1 people living
adjacent to the quaint old penal establish-
ment wonder what the inmates would
think up next to alleviate the boredom
of incarceration, the Victorian Education
Department has a touching faith in the
future security of the prison. It has
acquired four acres of the jail’s farm
area—now being walled off from the
main preserve—for the erection of a
teachers’ college and a girls’ secondary
school!
• •
From Canberra:
Breadwinners will get a few small crumbs in
the 1957/ 58 Budget, after all. The income-tax
allowance for the first child will be raised from
£7B a year to £lOO and for other children from £52
to £75. It appears most unlikely that the
allowance of £l3O for a wife will be altered.
Pensions for aged, invalid and widowed
persons will be increased by 7s. 6d. a week to
£4 7s. 6d., and there will be slight adjustments in
unemployment- and sickness-benefits.
The ls.-in-the-£ increase in company-tax,
imposed in the March, 1956, “Little Budget”
will probably be halved to 6d., but because of
this the payroll-tax will remain and there will
be no easing of the petrol-tax, which had
originally been decided upon.
These concessions should cost the Government
about £3O million, approximately £l3 million
for pension-increases and £l5 million or so for
the taxation concessions.
Industry will also benefit from a liberalisation
of depreciation-allowances, following part-
adoption by Cabinet of the Hulme Committee’s
recommendations, made in 1955 but shelved
because circumstances at the time were
“unfavorable” for their adoption.
BOOBY-TRAP?


PERSONAL ITEMS
“Ek Dum’s” note: —
Died at 77, Admiral Edward Ratcliffe Evans,
first Baron Mountevans, and last of the great
figures of polar exploration of the era before
sled-aircraft, helicopters and - snowcats. He went
into the R.N. from the old Worcester training-
ship just 60 years ago, and his career could be
divided into three parts. In the first, at 21, he
served in the Morning, relief-ship to the
Discovery expedition, 1902-4, as a lieutenant,
and at the early age of 26 was awarded the
Shadwell Testimonial Memorial Prize by the
Admiralty. He was second-in-command of
Scott’s tragic but glorious Antarctic expedition
in 1909, was promoted to Commander for his
services, and returned in command after Scott’s
death with just a few months to go before he
entered into his second phase as a sort of
modern Grenville or young Nelson, whose
daring in the narrow waters around England
made his name a household word long before
the war ended.
His bold command of the Mohawk in the
bombardment of the German Army right wing
brought him notice which became fame when,
in 1917, in the Broke with the Swift in com-
pany, he engaged and defeated six German
destroyers: a hand-to-hand action in which,
probably for the last time, the order was given
“prepare to receive boarders.” The crew
received them in traditional style, and for ever
afterwards their captain was “Evans of the
B'roke.” After the war, in China waters, he was
awarded a special gold-medal for saving life at
sea. Later he had'warious jobs, including com-
mand of the Repulse, which he took-over after
her round-the-world tour, and from 1929 for
two years he held command of the R.A.N.
At that time, at round about 50, he had the
energy and zest of a man of 30. I spent his last
evening in Sydney with him, and an exhausting
night it was. He danced with the daughters of
his visitors, met every challenge to a toast over
about seven hours without turning a hair, and,
as the ship went down-harbor, personally
saluted Garden Island with an epic blast of the
siren in return for the band’s “Rolling Home” —
the cord broke and the blast continued for a
quarter of an hour.
He was Naval Commander-in-Chief in South
Africa until just before War II started, when,
at 58, he took-over the regional civil defence of
London, and handled this arduous job until the
war’s end, when he was rewarded with a peerage.
A born leader, a dominating personality
when he liked, but with catholic interests in his
reading and knowledge, a delightful companion,
unforgetful of his friends, and with a simplicity
that belied his staggering array of ribbons, gold-
medals from learned societies, and his brilliant
term of office as Rector of Aberdeen University.
He was twice married--the first time to a New
Zealand girl, the second time to a Norwegian.
Altogether, he lived a full life, of a variety which
belonged to an older world, and which the
developments of science have made impossible
for the generations that followed him. But he
would have been as brilliant, and as legendary a
figure, in the nuclear age, as in the “Boys’ Own
Paper” era of his heyday.
• •
“F.C.”: After 20 years as Federal
Director of the Associated Chambers of
Manufacture, Latham Withall will call
it a day at the end of this month —and
take on another fair-sized chore as
chairman of Navcott Shipping Company.
One of Canberra’s best-known citizens,
he’ll be leaving the capital to settle in
Melbourne, after a world-tour. He’s
played an important part, not only in
furthering the causes of Australian
manufacturers, but as a sort of unofficial
adviser to Australian Governments on
international trade-deals. Regular inhabi-
tants of Parliament House in Canberra
will miss the smiling, genial Latham,
whom many consider the most likeable
and astute lobbyist of them all.
Home in Perth with wife, infant son,
and an Oxford Ph.D., 26-year-old
Bernard Hendrik Lochtenburg, who was
Westralian Rhodes Scholar for 1954. Two
of his three years abroad were spent
at Oxford, and the third in working for
a British chemical firm. Son of a Dutch
father and British mother, he was born
in Singapore and went to schools in four
countries —Java, Holland, Singapore and
the U.S. —before he came to Perth with
his mother in 1942. His father served
with the Dutch Army in Indonesia and
died in a Sumatran p.-0.-w. camp in 1945.
Young Lochtenburg got 11 distinctions
in his engineering course when he was
at the Westralian University, won the
G. M. Nunn prize for surveying in 1950
and again, in 1952, a rowing Blue,
served in a C.M.F. unit, and was presi-
dent of the Guild of Undergraduates and
the Engineers’ Club.
• •
Keith Holy o a k e (below), the
Prime Minister elect of New Zealand, is
53, which will make him the youngest
P.M. the Dominion has had for 30 years.
A good-looking chap, with greying hair
contrasting with the tan of many years of
farming, he’s also considered the best-
dressed man in Parliament. He left
school when he was 12 to help on his
father’s farm at Riwaka, a 30-acre hold-
ing growing hops, tobacco and fruit; at
28 he was given the Forbes-Coates bless-
ing for a seat, but didn’t win it; then, the
following year—l932—he won a three-
cornered by-election. In 1943 he was
PRIME MINISTER ELECT
selected as National-party candidate for
Pahiatua, went straight into the front
bench on election, and, when the party
became the Government in 1949, was
given the Agriculture portfolio. Recently
he led a trade-delegation to London,
where he was dubbed a “hard bargainer”
—high praise in that part of the world.
Like most Enzedders, a Rugby Union
fan, he was for seven years a hooker
for Golden Bay.
• •
Wilbur Chaseling, whose Yulengorv
Nomads of Arnhem Land has just been
brought out by Epworth Press, acquired
AUTHOR
the material at first-hand, running a
mission in that interesting country. In
1932 Arnhem Land natives killed five
Japanese, and in the following year
killed two prospectors, two beach-
combers, and a member of a police-party
sent out to arrest the murderers of the
Japanese. There was much wild talk of
punitive expeditions and the like, and
in the midst of the newspaper commotion
the Methodist Mission made a very sen-
sible offer to the Federal Government;
that it should establish a “buffer” mission-
station between intruders and Stone Age
inhabitants who, when their ethical codes
were violated by strangers, not unreason-
ably thought themselves entitled to slay
them.
Wilbur Chaseling was the man picked
to open the station. He went to north-
east Arnhem Land in 1935, and remained
there for eight years, seeing, as Professor
Elkin points out in his preface, a good
deal more of the daily life of the natives
in his region than professional anthro-
pologists could hope to view on occasional
expeditions. Obviously, too, he has the
type of mind to assimilate and digest
what he has seen. Among other activities
—such as making the mission self-sup-
porting in food after three years —h*
collected for almost every major museum
in Australia during his tour of duty.
Brought up on the Hawkesbury River
(N.S.W.), where the family dates back
to a land-grant from Lachlan Macquarie,
Chaseling went to Newington College,
then to theological college, in Sydney, and
he cut anthropological studies short to


take on the “buffer” job. Tried to join
the R.A.A.F. in War 11, found himself
in the Army instead, as a padre, and
served in Darwin and thereabouts. After
the war he was Queensland secretary for
Overseas Missions, and has recently
come to Sydney to live, with a new job
—secretary for the Methodist Church’s
home organisation in Australia.
9 9
“Kenyas”: Passed on at Chatswood,
Sydney, at 85, Hyam Marks, for 30 years
sportsmaster and football-coach at Sydney
Grammar. He started there, as a pupil, in
1884, and as a teacher in 1901, played
Rugby Union for N.S.W. and for Aus-
tralia in 1899, later refereed a number of
international games, and was an honorary
life-member of the N.S.W. Rugby Union.
At one time chairman of the G.P.S.
Athletic Association, and also a vice-
president of the Old Sydneians Union, he
retired from Grammar in 1941, but to
the end retained an active interest in the
affairs of the school, particularly in sport.
A good fellow, Marks —together with
such notable figures as Buchanan
(deceased), Jarvie (retired in Tasmania
after 50 years of teaching), Cortis-Jones
(also with a school-mastering record of
more than half-a-century, now 83 and in
hospital, but with undiminished mental
powers) and a few others—belonged to
that small band of masters who made
G.P.S. history in Australia.
9 9
Off next month to attend the 15th
International Congress of Actuaries in
New York, and to look at American and
European methods in assurance, insurance
and such, William Joseph Dowd, 8.A.,
F.1.A., A.S.A., an unassuming chap of
45 with a quiet brand of humor, who is
spoken of with considerable respect
ACTUARY
around Sydney’s temples of finance.
Actuary of Australasian Catholic
Assurance Co., Ltd.—one of the few
survivors of the flock of life-assurance
concerns hatched after World War I,
currently in brave feather —and of the
A.C.A. subsidiary, Invincible Fire and
General Insurance Co., Ltd., Dowd is
Sydney-born ; went to school at Christian
Brothers, Lewisham, joined M.L.C. as a
clerk, then, when he qualified, went to
A.C.A. as actuary and began to acquire
the quiet sort of fame already mentioned.
Interested in music and golf; used to
play the piano, now mostly plays gramo-
phone-records of the classical kind, “when
possible” ; the rider, it seems, refers to
a son with competitive, but more con-
temporary, tastes in record-playing.
9 9
The new Assistant Chief of Air Staff
(operational requirements), 47-yea.r-old
Air-Vice-Marshal Wallace Hart Kyle,
was born in Kalgoorlie and educated at
Guildford (W.A.) Grammar School, and
the R.A.F. College, Cranwell (U.K.).
While serving with Bomber Command,
he led the attack on the iron-and-steel
works at Ijmuiden in 1941, for which he
was awarded the D.F.C. The D.S.O. was
added in 1945. He was Director of
Operational Requirements at the Air
Ministry, London, from 1952 to 1954,
and had been Air Officer Commanding
in Malaya for the past two and a half
years.
9 9
The gathering of 850 guests to celebrate
the opening of the Mutual Life and
Citizens’ new building at North Sydney
suggested to the observer that the M.L.C.’s
friends are a lot of jolly good fellows.
Rarely has Sydney seen.such an animated,
agreeable company in such pleasant and
impressive surroundings. It was, alto-
gether, a splendid “do,” , finishing-up in
the staff dining-room, which in design
and construction compares with the most
modern dinner-dance annexes of first-
class overseas hotels.
-9 •
All church dignitaries, of course, are
important figures to members of their
own faith, in their spiritual territories,
but Archbishop Duhig seems to have a
special place in Queensland. Length of
tenure, no doubt, has something to do
with this impression—he’s been R.C.
Archbishop of Brisbane since 1917, before
that was Coadjutor Archbishop, and
Bishop of Rockhampton and the
generally neighborly atmosphere of the
State must be taken into account, too:
but, over and above everything, there is
the man himself. It is almost as difficult
to be in Brisbane any length of time and
to be unaware of Archbishop Duhig as it
would be to visit Rome and not think of
the Pope.
Born at Broadford, Limerick, in
Ireland, in 1871, James Duhig came to
Australia as a boy, studied at the Irish
College, Rome, and was ordained a priest
in 1896. C.M.G. (1954), a member of the
Queensland University Senate for
many years, F.R.G.S.A. and
former Queensland Geographical
Society president, he is a man of wide
culture and interests, including art and
ARCHBISHOP
writing ; he writes very well himself, and
his residence at New Farm is hung with
an interesting variety of paintings,
ranging from Italian primitives to Queens-
land landscapes. Present writer (not of
the same faith) was taken there
by a friend, presented, and invited to
afternoon-tea. Among the guests were
visitors from an overseas Catholic uni-
versity, and the talk darted and gleamed
from sociology to art ®and included
reminiscences of a conversation with
Cardinal Mindszenty not long before his
arrest by the Communists in Hungary.
A memorable afternoon-tea.
• •
Passed the 90th milestone in Perth,
Alfred Metlam, former all-round athlete
and first linotype-operator to join the staff
of the Perth “Sunday Times.” Even after
retirement he did casual work until well
over 80. Son George was a member of the
A.I.F. crew that brought the King’s Cup
to Australia after World War I.
• - •
Into the Silence:
In Adelaide, at 38, Squadron-Leader D'Arcy
Hawke, D.F.C.
In Melbourne, at 45, Dr. J. C. Bower, senior
lecturer in physics at Melbourne University and
a nucleamesearch worker.
In Brisbane, at 73, John H. Reid, who spent
nearly 45 years in geological work in Queens-
land, and discovered oil traces near Springsure.
He was a mining man of wide experience in
other mineral fields, able to express himself
well in departmental reports.
At Merimbula (N.S.W.), at 81, Cedric H.
Ballantyne. Until his retirement some while
ago, senior partner in Cedric H. Ballantyne and
Associates, and one of Melbourne’s leading
architects, he planned and designed many
buildings in the southern city, including the
Royal Exchange, Athenaeum Club, the Plaza
Theatre, Regent Theatres (in various capital
cities), and the Kooyong Tennis Courts. He
was the only remaining life-member of the
Athenaeum Club, a jife-member of the Vic.
Lawn Tennis Association and the Royal South
Yarra Tennis Club, and one of the oldest
members of the M.C.C.
At Dunedin (N.Z.), at 75, W. F. Alexander,
formerly editor of the “Evening Star.” With
A. E. Currie he edited the first anthology of
N.Z. verse.


ABORIGINALITIES
The "Gun" of the Season
THERE he stands, this interloper, on
this golden morning, in the warm
winter sun, his feet scuffling the priceless
sands of the beach at Surfers’ Paradise.
An interloper, I say, for, by the Fates, he
beat me to the only job I might have
made a fist of.
I lose sight of him now and then as I
sprawl over the sea-wall, watching him
toil. I can’t see him for sheilas, beautiful
sheilas. Dozens of them, nut-brown in
the Queensland sun, long-legged and
lovely, milling round this fellow. They’re
waiting their turn. That’s his job—gun-
spraying ’em with sun-tan oil, spraying it
on with one dook and rubbing it in for a
fine finish with the other. And —it just
shows you the way the dice fall out of
the box —getting paid for it!
The boss-o’-the-board is the fattest,
happiest man I’ve ever seen ; he musters
the sheilas into the pen and beams on
everyone. I don’t know what the charges
are. I don’t know how a man could fix
a price on that kind of a job ; but there’s
a fine mist of sun-tan oil in the
atmosphere, and the fellow on the gun's
putting ’em through in the best tradition.
You ve got to admire his technique,
this chap you might call a gun sprayet.
Hes running over a neat little 18-tooth
in a bit of two-piece torn-handkerchief
kind of a thing. She stands before him
there in the sand as thmmh she’s the
Princess Plithios ’and her
over with attar of roses instead of peanut-
oil or whatever it is. ,
First a burst on her upraised arms,
then her shoulders, then round the first
bit of handkerchief ; then he swings his
other dook up and flicks it here and there.
Then, s’help me, up and down her legs on
the long blow, while she wriggles her
toes in the sand and he toils with both
hands for a smooth finish.
He puts through a dozen or more, some
of them in bikinis, some in a frill or two
or a ribbon, and the lot looking like
artrst’s models, while I hang around and
just look. He takes a bit of a breather ;
then some old ewes are drafted into the
pen. He whips the gun over them, but
doesn’t boot them down the chute as you
might expect.
After that there’s a Melbourne man,
be the look of his pelt, all belly and bent
nose, in the rag trade probably. He’s
followed by a tall thin joker who could
be anything from a bookie’s clerk to a
parson. I hike down a bit for a closer
decko, and now I observe something I
hadn’t noticed from the promenade.
That fellow on the gun never changes
his style, never bats an eye, no matter
what. He’ll slap a coat of varnish on a
dowager till she gleams as glossy as an ad.
in a Yankee magazine, and then he’ll pull
the gun on a sheep-joker from Mitchell,
who F bet would spar-up a tenner to
squash a whisper of this getting back to
the mulga. The expression on the dial of
the spray-gun man never changes.
I move in close to see if the fellow’s
blind, but he shoots a burst of sun-tan
my way and says, “Stand away* Anzac,
y’ might git horned.”
Pondering it, though, I wonder whether
I could hold a job like that down. It calls
for a kind of temperament. All the same,
tomorrow I’ll chat the boss-o’-the-board
about a bit of pickin’-up, and a go on
the machine just every now and again.
B-herd.
* * * *
“Croid”: He was describing a country
hotel where he had been forced to spend
a night. “And did you have an inner-
spring mattress to sleep on?” I asked.
“Not on your life,” he said. “Mine was
made of Coconut-fibre—with the nuts still
attached! ”
* * % *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Formation of an
English Speaking League, with branches
in Moresby, Lae and Rabaul, may or
may not have an immediate effect on the
speaking of pidgin in the Territory. All
racial groups have been invited to become
members, with a nice big green-and-white
badge as one inducement, provided they
undertake to “speak and use English on
all occasions when it’s possible to do so,
and assist those members whose English
needs improvement.” A few Australian-
speaking residents have expressed views
on the idea in non-English.
* * * *
“W.R.L.”: His Honor looked bored
stiff by the protracted argument on the
subject of rams and wethers, ewes and
weaners. Towards the end of the day he
suddenly interposed with: “Mr. Horse-
hair, when precisely do the ewes become
wethers?” Silence in court.
* * * *
“Keima”: Recent earthquakes in
Greece and, on a smaller scale, in the
Pacific Ocean remind that it was by means
of ’quakes that the earth’s centre was
proved to be liquid, as had been long
suspected. Powerful vibrations set-up
by an earthquake travel through the earth
as well as round the surface, spreading
outwards in all directions like waves on a
pond when a stone is thrown in. These
vibrations (which, it is known, can’t pass
through a liquid) are registered on seismo-
graphs at places round the surface within
a certain arc of the earthquake-centre ; but
no waves are ever recorded directly oppo-
site the disturbance. Hence the certainty
that the very interior of our globe is
liquid.
* * * *
“Q. Ree”: Older Fijians and those
fresh from the supervision in the villages
are still very respectful to Europeans
and those in authority. One housegirl
always disconcerted me by creeping on
her knees to me whenever she wanted to
ask a favor.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Some of the plants which
gave the early Westralian settlers head-
aches are now yielding interesting extracts.
Macrozamia is one. A species of this
plant, the zamia-palm, killed stock which
ate it (it’s the cause of rickets in cattle),
and the nuts, tempting in appearance and
highly nutritious after they’ve been
treated, are poisonous to humans in the
raw state. Now macrozamia-gum is being
tested in animal-health and -nutrition
laboratories, and in machinery-factories
as a drying-agent. Another is pituri, a
narcotic plant with a high percentage of
nicotine. The natives used to dry the
leaves of pituri, crush them, mix them
with gums and ashes and chew the mix-
ture. Rolled into cigar-shaped lumps, this
stuff was bartered between the tribes, but
it hasn’t been definitely established why




the natives ate it. It wasn’t a stimulant,
and the abos weren’t neurotic types who’d
be likely to need or seek sedatives, and
they must have been aware of its effects:
they used to throw branches of the plant
into waterholes to dope the ’roos and birds
that drank there. The drug must have
been potent. Even in that weak form
it stupefied big ’roos and emus.
* # # *
“Ariota”: The black cockatoos settle in
a great flight on our pine-trees. Cracking
the cones with their strong beaks sounds
like the rattle of musketry-fire. In a
matter of minutes the lawn is an awful
’mess. The noise must attract the magpies.
They consider our pine-trees their private
property. Dozens of them fly into the
trees, and the sounds of strife are deafen-
ing. Very soon the cockatoos take flight,
and there are loud carols of triumph
from the magpies. Some of the maggies
even come carolling on to the veranda to
my wife, who has come out attracted by
the uproar. She rewards the victors with
cheese.
♦ * * *
“Sunray”: The visitor was enjoying the
roadside scenery as the car sped west-
ward, and was particularly intrigued
with the signs on the stalls: Farm Eggs
and Fresh Farm Eggs ; Roast Chicken
and Flot Duck ; Spuds, P’toes and Local
Potate at various prices ; Puppies ; Stud
Birds ; and Billy Goat for Service. Then
there were the mountain views, the blue
“What? B EEF again!”
haze melting into gold-and-orange cliffs,
the sun shining down. I was sitting
back and feeling smug, as if I’d arranged
it all myself, when four kangaroos leaped
a fence on one side of the road, bounded
in line across in front of us, and over the
fence of the opposite paddock into the
scrub. In all my years of driving that
road it was a sight I’d never seen before
and it certainly impressed the visitor!
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: In an article in
“Stand-To,” the journal of the A-C.T.
branch of the R.S.L., Brigadier John
Field gave a fine description of the
Kukukukus country, New Guinea, and
of the natives there, he having been, with
others, in a plane forced down in that
wild area in 1944. He tells how, in one
of the first villages they reached, an old
fellow, jabbering and clucking, rushed
forward, stroked him under the chin, put
? n arm rou " d his shoulder and rubbed a
hand over h,s lummy. The party at the
I A r' o n ‘ ,vvale a
among the Kukukukus, and Field,
descri |; the incident in the light of his
subsequent know ledge, savs: “I didn’t
know whether he was trying to win
friends and ; n fl ue nce people, was an old
chum, or whether 1 was being assessed
f or tbe eve ning pot.”
* * * *
~ . „ _ T , . .
. . Dolphin : No matter how crafty the
dr,nkcrs - when the bar " as crowded the
, new coun 'D CO P would swoo P- 75“*
late at a customer was astounded to
see in the glare of his headlights the
officer up a tree viewing the pub-traffic.
Next night a good dose of axle-grease and
sump-oil covered the branches of the tree,
Nothing was ever said, but the after-
hours raids ceased,
* * * *
“1.H.P.”: Witnessing the unlikely places
where motorists pull-up at the side of the
road to drink tea or coffee I boasted that
I would never do my passengers so ill a
turn ; for them I would choose a grassy
glade, a clear space with a view, or a
secluded spot amongst towering trees,
But I fell, travelling with a relative of
fixed habits. We were on a stretch of road
that offered no interest in glades, clear
spaces, views or seclusion, when the
alarm-clock in her stomach went off and
she declared for morning-tea. Nothing
would stop her. She kept saying “I want
my morning-tea and I can’t see what
difference it makes where we have it.”
So 1 joined the ranks of the side-of-the-
road drinkers. After all, there's nothing
like a drop of oil for a squeak!
* * * *
“Dinky-Die”: Sidney J. Baker, in
The Australian Language, has this to say
about “fair dinkum” (B. 3/7/’57):
Dinkum has also the senses of notability
and excellence attached to it... .although it
is used mainly to describe that which is
honest or genuine. Here again we can
look to English dialect to supply an origin,
which appears in the form of “fair
dinkum,” tair play. Rolf Roidrewood hist
introduced us to the term in 1881, when he
wrote of “an hour's hard dinkum,'’ mean-
ing hard work, in his Robbery Under Arms.
“Fair dinkum,” meaning genuine, occurs
in The Bulletin of May 5, 1894. Variants
“dink,” "dinky,” "dinky - die have
followed almost as a matter of course.
TRAFFIC
(For J.S.)
Traffic up and down the coast all Jay
even if it’s only a solitary gull
plodding into the wind. Three times
companies of birds went up the highway
travelling fast, very close to the waves
and flying line abreast, no leader,
going northward in a hurry, more like a
long
brown ribbon fluttering than anything
else.
Now we have a gull again, and the road
otherwise empty
unless you call the rainsquall far out
there
on the horizon, standing on stilts, a
traveller.
No fog-army in sight yet marching from
the south.
The grey armies of fog and mist that
invade the north
are Manco's soldiers on an Inca road
or ghosts of legions of Rome, bent
forward,
loping along in double time.
The images, you may say, are far-fetched ;
but that’s what idleness does, enforced
stillness,
anchored here at a windowpane, with a
view of the coast.
It’s the porpoises I’m waiting for. I'll
catch them this time.
Planes are important personages. They
travel
with a rumble of conversation. Cloud-
shadows
are a moving pattern of purple reefs
exposed to sight by the sun.
Even the waves are travellers because they
break
shoreward at a tangent. That drowned
log
won’t come ashore anywhere in sight;
some beach-boy
beyond the headland may have it and
drag it home.
There they are! The porpoises! My
favorite travellers.
They seem to stitch the grey-green sea
with a long running stitch of some kind of
glistening black cotton, silk or sheen.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


‘A REPORT from a helicopter-pilot of
natives starving in the Kimberley
districts is discounted by officers of W.A.’s
Native Welfare Department, and I’d say
they are right.
It’s all a matter of appearances, and if
you accept stunted vegetation as normal
for a desert, why expect fat animals? A
white man who spends a few years in
the desert country gets to
look like a lath, and if he’s
there long enough and young
enough he stays that way
even after he returns to
civilisation. Doesn't follow
he hasn’t lived well in the
desert; he has to keep the
right sort of tucker up to make
a living at dogging or pros-
pecting ; but Nature sees to
it that food doesn't turn to
fat in that climate, and a
bloke who’s been under that
sort of discipline doesn’t
readily fill-out later under
more moderate conditions.
Nature does that to a white
man in a few years. To the
natives, over a few thousand
years, she’s bred a race
which doesn’t carry an ounce
of fat, looks always on the
verge of starvation and
usually is, but is tough as
whipcord and almost imper-
vious to natural agents like
heat, cold and hunger. I’m
not supporting the school
that holds the desert native
completely insensitive to
these things those pro-
fessors who are aiming to
find out why natives don’t
feel cold will find they do,
but they’re equipped to dis-
regard it much the same as
a person -subject to con-
tinuous noise practically
ceases to hear it.
There are two ways of tackling the
problem of desert natives. Leave them
practically alone, giving just what assist-
ance is needed to tide them over a
particularly bad pinch, and let Nature go
her own way about arranging the survival
of the fittest. Or herd them into com-
munity-settlements, see that they have
plenty to eat and don’t suffer extremes of
climate, and let those who can purvive
under those conditions do so.
Either way there’s bound to be
casualties; but I’m betting there’ll be
fewer while the natives roam the desert.
Kelms.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: Unsophisticated cows
like “Tabba’s” (B. 7/8/’57), making their
debut on silage with an annoying display
of total lack of interest, can be' instantly
intrigued if a few drops of neatsfoot are
added to the first helpings. Diamonds
for blondes and aniseed for cats are com-
paratively just also-rans in lure-rating.
* * * •
“Big End”: “As weak as one-o’clock
cheese,” applied to indecisive, weak-
willed persons, traces back to the
vat. In the cheese-factory the curd was
m the early stages of cheddaring at one-
o clock, and was therefore soft and weak.
It broke-down easily under pressure At
four-o’clock, the cuVd was in the hoops
tightly pressed and well-knit P
*
Shamuseen”: The drought-time
appearance of a boggy patch providing
“Well, what's YOUR idea of a honeymoon ?”
a daily flow of several thousand gallons
on a Darling Downs (Q.) farm (B.
10/7/ ’57) prompts mention of the mud-
springs in the Eulo district of sou’-west
Queensland. These are volcano-shaped
mounds of mud, rising to about 15ft. on
a circular base of about 30ft. diameter.
From the crater a thin trickle of water,
sufficient to give a small measure of stock-
relief in drought, flows intermittently at
stages which Seem unregulated by drought
or other conditions. The surface of the
mounds has a deceptive appearance of
sunbaked-antbed solidity, but it is of
wafer-thinness: thus the springs can be
death-traps for stock, which, however,
are usually wary enough to wait for the
water-trickle to reach firm ground. The
springs mostly occur in groups, each
group about 100yds. or so from the next.
<* <* <*
“Bass”: South Australia may now be
ahead of W.A. in planted pine-forests
(B. 17/7/’57), but it’s bound to lose the
lead soon. W.A. has millions of acres in
good-rainfall areas —15 to 30 inches, and
reliable —which isn’t suitable for agri-
culture, and a lot of it is being investigated
for pines. So far 20,000 acres have been
planted with pinaster and radiata, and
the present programme of 2000 acres a
year seems ? like! v to be ‘ maintained
MioM u u , « maintained.
"f be t sharp,y stepped : ap * a
Stnp ° f *°" ntry ™ der . ‘^ration
proves suitable. This is about 160
square-miles of coastal plain 30 miles
north of Perth and jf „ £ ver becomes
forest it should provide some interesting
research for naturalists. I’d like to see
how the native fauna reacts to a big belt
of tall timber in country which apparently
has never produced anything much bigger
than a banksia.
* * * m
. „ _
Wilkie : Health-inspectors in West
Australia have welcomed official advice
*° discontinue the use of formalin in
paSf'hiw ex P ™ eUlSfffie
pungent discomfort of mouth and nostrils full
of formalin vapor, or have demonstrated
* heir quickness off the mark after pouring
formalin into a drum containing a little Condy s
crystals to liberate the fumigating formaldehyde
gas. This reaction is a violent, high-temperature
affair, and it was always an irresistible tempta-
tlon to P eer mto a sealed room to see whether a
foaming mass had erupted to ruin the lino, or
whether the bricks under the drum were really
efficient insulators. The whole business was a
™? sle of ~irr,e, ,ir r, e a l‘? ™ a '. eria I 1 ’ “burning incense to
false gods. ’ Nobody has ever proved the
effectiveness \of formalin against the bacteria
of diphtheria, scarlet-fever, meningitis or polio.
But as a placebo or “gesture to please,” the
show had psychological value in that anxious
relatives were reassured by it. The home pre-
cedures now recommended by the W.A. Depart-
ment of Public Health as measures of “terminal
disinfection are: (1) Cleansing the room with
soap and water; (2) airing mattresses and
blankets for about six hours ; (3) keeping books
and toys out of circulation for a fortnight; (4)
laundering bed-linen, pyjamas, etc., promptly.


TUI Alt-BRITISR
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
r*
>t,ln »Tlt|>T » «•. | T». HIM*
Prices from
r 29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
Business, Robbery, Etc.
THE MARKET MIXTURE
HTHE investor who looks
beneath the surface has
had many matters to consider
during the past week or two.
And the net result has been
hesitancy and some weakening
in market tone, but not with-
out a few upward movements—
1.C.1., Newbold, Mort's Dock
and John Mcllwraith being
notable examples.
First there was the devalu-
ation of the franc, with an
ensuing run oh sterling and the
transfer of large funds to West
Germany. A week ago there
was a rush by some Australian
importers to cover their
commitments overseas also,
fearing a rise in the landed
cost of goods bought on the
non-sterling market in the
event of depreciation of sterl-
ing.
There has been an official
denial from London of any
intention to devalue sterling,
and the activity in exchange-
dealings has quietened, but the
effects of the devaluation of
the franc must undoubtedly
affect British export prospects,
and this at a time when
German __ manufacturers are
proving to be fierce competitors
of Britain in many regions,
especially in the range of
motor - cars, tools and
machinery.
Jap Trade-treaty
To the Australian investor,
too, the Japanese trade-treaty
has been causing concern,
particularly with regard to
textile stocks. So far most
comment has been heard from
the point of view of Australian
manufacturers, who are
naturally concerned about the
prospects of competition from
such a quarter, but the actual
terms and likely effects of the
treaty have not been fully
assessed. The matter has yet to
be discussed in Parliament.
The treaty is something to
be considered soberly by all
sides. The problems involved
in it are by no means clear-cut.
But, in the meantime, Brad-
ford Cotton has been singled-
out for special marking-down,
selling at 365. 3d., cum what-
ever final div. is paid (usually
Is. 3d. a share). Earlier in the
year the shares sold at 435. 3d.
B.H.P. Dividend Policy
More directly in the investor’s
eye have been the trading
results disclosed by leading
companies recently.
At the head of the list of
these, of course, is B.H.P. Its
consolidated net profit for the
year to May 31 was up £854,289
at £7,383,295. This was less
than some sections of the
market expected, but it
was struck after providing
£1,145,170 more for depreci-
ation (£7,864,513), £1,150,000
more for plant-replacement
(£4,145,000), and £3,994,935
more for taxation (£9,598,569).
The net result claimed was
equal to about 204 p.c. on the
co.’s present capital, com-
pared with 234 p.c. in the
preceding term, and about 10
p.c. on shareholders' funds,
compared with 10.8 p.c. in the
preceding year.
The dividend has been kept
at 10 p.c., and as yet there is
no mention of any of the
benefits which the market
appears lately to have been
counting on. As The Bulletin
remarked in its August 14
issue, any additional benefits at
the present time would indi-
cate a change of the financial
policy indicated specifically a
“Do you think We ought to set aside £5000
for taxation reserve ?”
year ago and implied on earlier
occasions.
Mort’s Dock
Another interesting develop-
ment has been the return of
Mort’s Dock to the div.-list
with a 7 p.c. distribution, after
a loss of £175,644 in 1955-56,
when no div. was paid. The
sharemarket responded by
raising its bids from 10s. to
15s. for the £1 shares in two
days.
Builders’ Hardware
In Melbourne, John Mc-
Ilwraith Industries showed a
profit £4553 higher at £371,346,
after a fall of £18,061 in the
preceding term, and out of
the 274 p.c. shown on capital
proceeded to pay an increased
dividend—-the final was at the
rate of 15 p.c., compared with
a regular 124 p.c. since flota-
tion as a public co.
This performance is particu-
larly interesting in view of the
loss by General Industries and
the smaller profit by Swans,
Ltd., in N. S. Wales, and indi-
cates, as The Bulletin has
emphasised previously, the
patchy nature of trading and
trading-results throughout the
Commonwealth. John Mc-
Ilwraith probably has no exact
parallel to compare it with, but
both the N. S. Wales cos. men-
tioned , have something m
common in hardware-trading,
The sharemarket is wonder-
ing about R. B. Davies
Industries, largest manufacturer
of builders’ hardware in the
Southern Hemisphere. Its
shares have been below par
for some time, but have lately
edged-up to 19s. The drop in
homebuilding has affected sales
of some builders’ hardware, but
there are hopes that city build-
ing has more than offset this.
However, trading results have
yet to be released. This is so
also in the case of Frederic
Ash (Newcastle); here the
market is much more confident,
and has pushed the shares up
from 50s. to 545.
Malcolm Moore Industries,
constructional engineers and
machinery - manufacturers, in
Melbourne, will not pay a
dividend for the past year,
though it was a 20-percenter
earlier in its Stock Exchange
career.
There is thus no general trend
to profit-earning in Australia,
either by class or by locality.
Individual merit is highly
important in the selection of
investments at the present,
time. In industry the buyers’
market is becoming more and
more a feature, and the manu-
facturer or distributor who
misses in quality, design or
price isn’t likely to get out of
his problem without loss.


jFuilh in th e
Future
»
ft
Spread along the eastern coast for more than
1000 miles, in our strongest line of northern
settlement, is the sugar industry—producing, on the
1956 harvest, more than £54-million worth of cane
sugar, and earning for Australia nearly £3O-million
in assured exports of its surplus.
It stands as an example of industrial efficiency,
and for one principal reason: Its farmers and
millers had the wisdom to establish early a system
of intense research, and maintained it with levies
through the years.
Results have repaid the effort many times over.
Incalculable benefit has come, for instance, from
the breeding of new varieties of cane suited to the
climate ; more than 80 per cent, of the cane now
grown in Australia was bred in Queensland. Along
with this has gone amazingly successful work in
laboratories and in the field ; work on soils, diseases
and pests, and in mill technology.
The tonnage produced to the acre is about
50 per cent, greater than it was 20 years ago. In
that time, with improved use of the land and a
post-war expansion in which ex-servicemen shared,
the sugar yield has been doubled.
Mechanisation also has played a major part it
the raising of standards. In actual farming the
Australian sugar industry is as thoroughlj
mechanised as any in the world.
Technicians are working on the development
of a mechanical harvester. And in an end-effort
to reduce costs, the industry now has embarked on
a programme for conversion to the bulk-handling
of raw sugar with conveyor systems at mills,
harbours, and refineries.
The first bulk terminal at Mackay Harbour
was opened in July, and two others are expected to
be operating at Queensland ports next year.
By all the clear signs, the next few years will
see higher flights to efficiency in this great industry
which has already contributed so much to the
Australian economy.
//
'ee \
y
The Need for Capital
SPEAKING at the opening
of the magnificent £4-
million office-block building of
the Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. at North
Sydney on August 22, the
Prime Minister, Mr. Menzies,
touched appropriately on the
need for generating capital
throughout the whole British
CommonweajSth.
And by the term “generating
capital” the P.M. no doubt
meant “increasing produc-
tivity.” Because it is through
production that capital is
mostly created or generated.
At the recent P r i rn e
Ministers’ Conference in
London, all present agreed on
their respective countries’ needs
for more capital.
Australia can’t generate all
the capital it needs, but, said
Mr. Menzies, it could not
generate it any more readiiy
by inflationary processes.
It was not a question of
whether we should have pro-
gress or stability. It was neces-
sary to have both.
The more inflation and in-
stability, said Mr. Menzies, the
less incentive there was for
overseas capital to come here.
In at ion, because of rising costs
affecting our export trade, did
not even encourage the invest-
ment of equity capital by over-
seas interests in Australia.
There is a school of thought
—on quite a high level, too —
in Australia which says, in
effect, “Who’s afraid of the big,
bad inflationary wolf? Who
cares about inflation so long as
we have progress?”
The Bulletin’s word of
warning on the subject has
been that it is one thing to have
some inflation with real
progress ; but it is vastly
different to have inflation with-
out progress.
And that is what is all too
likely to happen if we go into
inflation wittingly and
deliberately, hoping to gain
some national advantage from
it.
Company Raisings
[From Canberra]
/COMPANIES listed on the
Australian Stock Exchanges
raised £96,400,000 in new
money in the financial year to
June 30.
This was almost £l3 million
less than the amount raised in
the previous year, but a higher
figure than that achieved in
1954-55.
Official figures show that, of
the new money, £43,600,000
came from share - capital,
including preference shares,
and the remainder from
debentures, registered notes and
deposits.
Figures are not available for
companies not listed.
Banks, life-assurance com-
panies and superannuation
funds provided £8,900,000 of
the new money, £1,600,000 of
it in share-capital and the
remaining £7,300,000 in deben-
tures, etc.
Other sections of the invest-
ing public provided £87,500,000.
Total money raised by the
listed companies throughout
the year by way of debentures,
registered notes and deposits
was £143,600,000, but
£99,800,000 of this came from
conversions, renewals, etc.
Growing H.-p. Debt
IAESPITE the Government’s
plea in the “Little Budget”
in February, 1956, for restraint
in spending, Australians still
buy the goods they want —cars,
washing- machines, radio-
grams, furniture and the like
—through the great medium of
hire-purchase.
Whether for good or bad,
Australians have increased their
indebtedness to h.-p. finance
companies by more than £2O
million since Mr. Menzies’s plea
to ease-up on private and
public spending.
In March, 1956, Australians
owed hire-purchase companies
the then record sum of £2ll
million, but by the end of June
this year the figure had reached
£234 million, with every sign
that it will keep on increasing.
In the year to the end of June
the debt increased from £2ll
million to the £234 million.
This means that, on an
average, every man, woman
and child owes a hire-purchase
company somewhere in the
vicinity of £23 each, while the
average savings-bank balance
per head of population is still
under the £2OO-mark.
In the 12 months ended June
30, more than a million new
agreements were entered into
with h.-p. companies for goods
valued at a total of £291
million, and of this the finance
companies provided £lBB
million —an average of £lB7
per agreement.
And of the amount financed,
nearly 70 p.c., or £136 million,
was for motor-vehicles, tractors
and the like.
This category of goods also
accounted for 314,341 of the
total new agreements entered
into, and the vehicles purchased
were worth in all £223 million.
Plant and machinery (exclud-
ing tractors), which are so vital


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
to industrial development, only
accounted for £9,708,000 of the
money advanced by the h.-p.
companies.
Inflation
[From George F. Davidson]
YVHAT is inflation? What
causes it?
The word is a picturesque
way of describing the shrink-
age of money. Money is a
man-made affair devised to
make life easier. It is not a
natural phenomenon; bar-
barians do not know of it. The
Romans used to reckon in
cattle (hence our word
“pecuniary” from pecu ) until
they resorted to copper bars —
an ox being equivalent to a
hundred bars of copper weigh-
ing a pound each. Later on
they discovered that silver
coins were better. That was
? N out 269 b.c., shortly before
me First Punic War started. By
that time the copper-bar money
had shrunk to a sixth of its
original value in little more
than a couple of centuries.
No one has been able to
invent a monetary system that
will “stay put.” All shrink,
some more than others. If it
is desired to compare the value
of money in one country with
that in another country, the
yardstick in use today is gold—
the price of gold in the two
countries gives the ratio.
Before 1873 silver was com-
monly used, but it was so over-
produced in America that its
price receded and so it fell
from grace as an international
standard. Gold is still uni-
versally acceptable for the
settlement of accounts, but
unfortunately the U.S.A. is
hoarding a great deal of it and
thereby obstructing world
trade from settling its accounts
with ease.
If we want to compare the
value of money today with that
of long ago another yardstick is
needed. Gold only provides
the relative value of one
monetary unit with another.
Adam Smith explained that the
value of money is what it will
command in a fellow-man’s
services: that the human factor
is the real guide—i.e., wages.
When sterling was introduced
about 1200 years ago a
laborer’s wage was a penny a
day, whereas it is about 400
pence a day in England (and,
say, 700 pence a day in Aus-
tralia).
No other monetary system
has stood up so well to the
ravages of time as sterling and
yet it has shrunk to a four-
hundredth of its original value.
Instead of speaking of money
shrinking, many people prefer
tc talk of prices soaring like a
balloon being biown-up with
air-inflation.
What is inflation's origin?
The blowing-up really arises
when destruction takes the
place of production. In the old
days wars were small affairs:
instead of the nation in arms,
the fighting was done on a
smaller scale and the decision
accepted. But now the whole
nation’s effort is diverted from
its peace-time pursuits to make
guns, shells, etc., and when they
are put to use they smash
things up: they spread destruc-
tion. As the French say —and
they have had long experience
of the shrinkage of their money
—when inflation is bad, “C’esl
la guerre.”
When sterling—i.e., English
money—was introduced, it was
a slavish copy of the monetary
system started by Charle-
magne's father. Both were
written L.s.d.: the French
“I don't enjoy this, of course —it hurts me far more than
it hurts you."
v/ords were “livre,” “sou” and
“denier.” The “denier” shrank
so much before the days of the
Spanish Armada that it was
discarded. The English “d.,”
or penny, had shrunk so much
by 1860 that the amount of
copper in it had to be halved:
the old pennies wouldn’t stay in
circulation. It was because of
tnat difficulty that the Aus-
tralian shopkeepers had to
import token coins from 1855
onwards in order to give
change to their customers,
until the new bronze coinage
became available.
Now those coins are near the
end of their days. In March,
1956, the price of copper was
so high that pennies and half-
pennies in Australia were
worth more as scrap-metal than
as money and so could not be
expected to stay in circulation,
At present the price of copper
is much lower, but the difficulty
must be expected to become
more aggravated in the future,
So far as Australia is con-
cerned, the financial strain of
both the Kaiser’s war and
Hitler’s war divided the value
of our money by three, so that
our money today is worth
about one-ninth of what it was
before 1914. A man’s haircut
before 1914 cost 6d., whereas
today it costs 4s. 6d.
As we cannot undo the
destruction of the wars (or,
rather, as we cannot reverse it
and turn that colossal destruc-
Eon into production—we can-
not S et the clock back) the
monetary system has to be
adjusted to compensate for the
harm done Jhat ]s the infla _
tion p ro bl em we have to face.
The terrible slump of 1930
came more than 10 years after
t he Kaiser's war had ended: it
was overcome by devaluation,
\\ e would be wallowing in
another depression now but for
the devaluation of 1949. The
country had been made to
languish under the gold-bullion
standard, 1925-1931, by
“defending” the pound sterl-
ing ; but what good did that
de-
A wise man learns from past
mistakes.




SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Say It with Stars”
The stars in this latest and
tiptop offering at Sydney Tiv.
include comedians Bobby
Limb, Johnny Lockwood and
Billy Rayes—all funny men ;
singers Johnny O’Connor,
Darryl Stewart, Alwyn Leckie ;
dancers Edit Juhasz, the Rudas
Dancers, and, of course, the
Tiv. ballet —which, incidentally,
has never looked better.
There are also, as speciality
numbers, Les Thaika in
which, putting it mildly, “the
female member of the duo
transforms herself into a
silvery Venus de Milo” ; Med-
lock and Marlowe, who lend
remarkable animation to plastic
masks of Churchill, Eisenhower
and other notables ; the Balla-
dinis’ juggling; and the Rigo-
letto Bros, and Aimee
“hilarious headliners from the
U.S.A.”; and, of course, the
Tiv. ballet —which, incidentally,
has never looked better.
One was about to call the
foregoing assembly “a con-
stellation of famous funsters
and celebrities from near and
far,” but, on second glance, it
appears that the programme has
got in first that well-
chosen phrase, so little remains
except to thank the manage-
ment for an excellent night-out
and remark that, in enjoying
everything immensely, we
enjoyed particularly Billy
Rayes’s “The Machine Age,”
which was rather like a game
called “Queen Anne’s Dead”
which one used to play with
exuberant and naughty abandon
at parties an unmentionable
number of years ago.
The Tiv. ballet, of course,
seems younger and younger
as one grows older, and it is
an alarming if incidental
thought to note that it has
never looked better.
♦s> +*♦ ♦+♦
“The Diary of Anne Frank”
Now at Melbourne Princess,
this dramatisation of the diary
of a girl of 13 who hid with
her parents and other refugees
from Nazi vengeance in an up-
stairs room in a house in
Amsterdam for three years is
faithfully written and was
faithfully acted by Elizabeth
Waterhouse and Noel Madison
and others.
It is not a great play or even
a particularly gripping play,
nor does it go very deeply into
the underlying motives of
human behavior, whether Jew
or Gentile. It is just what a
clever, sensitive girl would be
expected to observe—she could
hardly be expected to observe
things outside her childish
experience or, if she did, to
understand them.
She does make some shrewd
observations on the incon-
gruousness of this group of
people whom a common catas-
trophe has brought together,
hating one another more
intensely than the Gestapo hates
them. After all, the brutality
of the Gestapo men who are
banging on the door downstairs
is quite impersonal—Hitler has
told them that the Jews are. a
menace to German culture and
to stamp them out is a religious
duty. Their own personal feel-
ings and associations don’t
come into it at all —they are
just dumb driven sheep. But
so are the unfortunate people
in the attic, only an accident
has put them on the wrong side
so they get trampled on by
the Nazi sheep instead of by
one another. The moment the
Nazi threat is removed they
can only play the game in terms
of their associations and they
start trampling on one another.
The tragedy and poignancy
of the play come from this
fact, not from any particular
insight the young diarist has
into the feelings of her com-
panions. She is, in fact, as ego-
bound as they are and, when
she is frustrated, tyrannises
over them with a tantrum,
though sometimes, being more
reflective, she solaces herself
with her diary. The only
person with any humanity in
the play is the father—well
played by Noel Madison, the
son of Moscovitch, the Jewish
actor. He holds them all
together.
Arrau and Malko
An all-Beethoven programme
lured a bumper audience to
Sydney Town Hall on Satur-
day night when Chilean pianist
Claudio Arrau was soloist in
the Concerto No. 4 in G Major.
Though less spectacular than
the “Emperor,” the Fourth is
no less fine a work, with its
distinguished themes, its tender-
ness and simplicity and its
architectural strength. Whereas
the “Emperor,” like the
“Eroica” Symphony, pro-
pounds the thesis of heroism
in the grand manner, the
Fourth uses the gentle voices
of poetry and romance in a
dialogue between keyboard and
orchestra that is mostly
intimate, occasionally lively,
and only rarely raised in
agitation and emotion.
Arrau w'as at his authorita-
tive best. His superb technical
equipment, informed by one of
the keenest interpretative minds,
gave to the work a rare mystic
quality, especially in the
diminuendos of the andante,
wrought with exquisite delicacy.
These, combined with his crisp
scale-passage work, his beauti-
fully built climaxes, and the
unfailing purity of tone, made
it a performance which might
even have wrung a grunt of
approval from the ghost of the
master himself —for the pianist
and for the orchestra, too,
tossing the musical conversa-
tion back to the soloist with
splendid precision.
The symphony was the
Seventh. Paradoxically, this
product of one of the darkest
periods in the composer’s life
is as gay as anything from the
pages of Haydn or Mozart,
with all four movements given
over to exhilarating dance-
rhythms. And of course there
is the famous Beethoven joke
on his audience, when he “has
them on” by using the same
note in the syncopated bass for
22 bars in the Coda of the first
movement while the fiddles
warble with mock-innocence
above it —it was this phase that
moved the jokeproof Weber
to the proclamation that “Beet-
hoven is now ripe for the mad-
house!”
And, bedad, it was Patwig
O’Beethoven who minted a
broth of an Irish reel for the
rollicking finale (he had used
the same material in his accom-
paniment to the Irish song
“Norah Creina”). Malko, the
dancing-master, had forged
intoxicating rhythms for the
first three sections; when
Oireland hove in sight in the
allegro he drove his forces at
breakneck 2-4 pace to the
finishing-line in a burst of
terpsichorean glory. It was the
most buoyant and exciting
finish to the Seventh this
commentator has enjoyed.
The other items were the
“Egmoni” Overture, and
Malko’s own ingeniously
scored transcription for string,
orchestra of the finale from the
third of the “Razoumovsky”
String Quartets.
♦> ♦> ❖
Tibor Paul
“Brahms is not middle-aged
men’s music,” said Tibor Paul,
introducing that composer's
Third Symphony to the youth
assembled at the Melbourne
Town Hall for the fourth con-
cert of the 1957 series. “Just
settle back and listen to his
beauty.” Unfortunately in the
first movement, allegro con
brio, the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra hardly did justice to
the Hungarian conductor’s
high hopes, but confidence was
restored by his sympathetic
handling of the melodic
andante and the delightful
theme for strings in the third
movement.
*Three Handel arias, sung by
English tenor Richard Lewis,
brought a touch of a different
sort of magic to the concert.
Lewis has a magnificent voice
and used it to bring beautiful
tone and warm musical inter-
pretation to Handel’s scorings.
“Linthorpe,” an impression of
a visit to the town of that name
in the Blue Mountains by
veteran Australian composer
Alfred Hill was happy and
reflective. Conventional in
form, it was full of vitality and
color.
The orchestra gave every-
thing it had and a bit extra to
the Ravel orchestration of
Moussorgsky’s piano suite,
“Pictures at an Exhibition,”
and some of the tone pictures
came to life much more than
most modern paintings.
■<s*■ <£♦
“Tartuffe”
This is the age for tampering
with the classics, when the
Greeks and Shakspeare are
togged in modern dress. Can-
berra Repertory did not go
quite so far with their Moliere ;
they shifted him from the time
of Louis XIV to that of
Napoleon I.
One of the objections to such
a move is that it makes it diffi-
cult to create the air of magic;
difficult, too, to arouse interest.
This is not easy at any
time with Moliere, partly
because what he has to say is
slight, partly because his
political message—the sugary


CONSERVE ALL YOU CAN IN A
LYSAGHT
HEAVY GAUGE
' u*dfei'Za*t&
&
Four standard sites range
from 25,000 to 100,000
gallons capacity
MATERIAL: Heavy gauge 5/5” corrugated galvanized
sheets, pre-drilled and curved. Waterproof jointing
material: bolts, nuts, washers and tools. Outlet fitting,
drilled and threaded to suit every pipe size up to b".
Bolted construction facilitates replacement of sheets with-
out dismantling tank.
Lysaght Tanks are designed
to be erected on concrete
bases (provided by the pur-
chaser). Details of recom-
mended bases, using the
cement penetrant method of
construction, are available
on request.
Special materials for cement
penetrated concrete base are
available as optional extras.
Cement, sand and aggregate
ore provided by the purchaser.
USES:
• Water conservation
• Irrigation head tanl
• Industrial water
storage
• Swimming pools
• Town water supply
9 Fire fighting
Overflow unit available
at slight extra cost
PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
Prices c.i.f. capital cities available on application
10,000-Gallon Water Tanks (tall or squat) are available also
10,000-GALLON WATER TANK PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
Mft. 4in. dia., 10ft. 7in. high 19ft. lin. dia., 4ft. sin. high
Basic unit. £ll7 Basic unit, £93
Write for further information to:
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. In all Capital Cities or
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE WORKS
LCI3AXC
praise of the monarch at the
end—must have embarrassed
his friends as much as it
embarrasses us now, and partly
because comedy of this kind
cannot be lifted out of its
milieu without losing some of
its point.
To add to this handicap, both
Moliere and the players flagged
badly in creating the setting for
the comedy. Joyce Goodes,
whom one remembers for her
creations in the past, did not
try to create a gullible grand-
mother. Peter Steer, who was
cast for the medium for
Moliere’s message on the use
and abuse of religious faith,
spoke his lines with as much
conviction as a Fabian talking
on equality.
So one waited for the arrival
of Tartuffe, not as an odious
hypocrite, but as a relief from
such bores. And Paul Krieg,
as Tartuffe, was not disappoint-
ing. From that perfect opening
remark to the very end he
created a person on the stage,
neither too grotesque nor too
much in caricature. To aid him
he had as a foil the good, no-
nonsense maid played almost
to perfection by Thera Drabbe ;
a dignified, artful, coy Elvire,
created by Joy Warren ; and a
slapstick Orgon, played by
Alex Lojkine, who made up in
gusto what he lacked in
subtlety.
Comedy hangs on the razor-
edge of timing, and period-
pieces rely heavily on charm.
Producer Anne Godfrey Smith
did well on both scores^
Bob 3x3 Veil with
tfie sets.
M.C.
*** ♦> *1*
Sydney Carton, Baritone
[I'rom Herbert Holman, London}
The, Arthur Benjamin-Cedric
Cliffe opera “A Tale of Two
Cities” has just finished a brief
season at Sadler’s Wells. It
won a prize at the Festival of
Britain in 1951 and was given
a studio broadcast on the Third
Programme two years later.
Yet so depressingly inadequate
are the facilities here for
putting on new operas, the
work has had to wait over six
years for a stage performance ;
its presentation now is entirely
due to the enterprise of the
Mew Opera Company, a band
of enthusiasts and substantially,
amateur in character.
This opera is, except for
one excruciating but easily-
remedied error of judgment,
superbly theatre-worthy — a
rare quality for an opera, con-
temporary or otherwise. The
construction and libretto
preserve the melodramatic
romanticism of the novel, and
such liberties as have been
taken with the treatment of the
plot enhance the drama and are
entirely justified.
There are two main altera-
tions: Carton and Darnay are,
deliberately, not as like as two
peas ; and Miss Pross does not
kill Madame Defarge. The
one is a positive gain in
dramatic credulity and the
other, although sacrificing a
powerful scene, enables
Madame Defarge to be a
witness at the end. Brought
face to face with Carton, his
dissimilarity to the Evremonde
profile brings home the fact
that, at the very last, she has
been thwarted. This makes for
a telling final curtain. Another
touch of brilliance is an
impromptu chamber-concert
by waiting aristos which takes
place in the background while
the two men are changing
clothes.
Unhappily, the opera loses
its grip halfway through, after
the storming of the Bastille.
The members of this New
Opera chorus are musically
faultless, but never look
like revolutionaries. When
they, in “ecstatic fury” (as the
programme puts it), start
throwing “blood” over each
other, appear with aristos’
“heads” on pikes and give
themselves up to the
excesses cff trie C&ffriagnole, the
effect is as embarrassing as it
is bathetic.
‘A great pity, since every-
where else the music heightens
the drama —indeed, is the
drama. Lucie and Charles, for
example, are real human-
beings, not the insipid goody-
goodies of the book. Lucie’s
-aria, “Thank God for All
These Things,” sung in the
Soho garden, is intensely
moving because of its inherent
contentment, tinged with sad-
ness, as of awareness of past
suffering.
Arthur Benjamin, who is
neither a crank nor a snob
musically, has clearly set out to
fit the music to the story,
but his objectivity robs the
music of even a thread of style,
and the loss is very noticeable.
The principal singer, too,
was Australian, with John
Cameron splendidly passe and
contrite as Carton, notably in
his self-accusing aria and his
never-mawkish “It is a far, far
better thing . . Other parts
were sung by Ruth Packer
(Madame Defarge—the longest
and hardest role), Heather
Harper (Lucie), Heddle Nash
(Dr. Manette), John Kentish
(Charles) and Leyland White
(Mr. Lorry).
Artbursts
Murch and Grieve
A joint show by Arthur
Murch and Robert Grieve at
Sydney Macquarie Galleries is
a contrast between assurance
and experiment.
Murch knows exactly what
he can do with paint: the
beautifully modelled nudes of
his beach scenes, the delicate
light effects of his best land-
scapes: and he does it here, if
not with fresh force, still with
all his customary sensitivity. He
is one of the few genuine
artists amongst all the Sydney
practitioners: a Murch -will
always be a Murch.
Grieve, on the other hand,
though his designs of spikes
and crescents are original
enough, and of some force,
doesn’t quite seem to know
where he is going. Dealing
with a “Bushfire Landscape,”
with “Pigeons” and “Harbor at
Night,” his paintings con-
tinually give the impression that
something memorable is about
to happen ; but it doesn’t, as
yet, quite occur.
♦♦♦
Old Masters
There are so many Aus-
tralian “Old Masters” in


Divorce Notices
IN fh! supreme court of new
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
To DOROTHY CAROLINE WILLIAMS
late of Barratta near Deniliquin.—
TAKE NOTICE that ALBERT
CORNELIUS WILLIAMS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3748 of 1956
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse during three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 28th October 1957 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from. D. G. STUART, Solicitor, 129
Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO ERROLL STEELE of unknown
address.—TAKE NOTICE that JOHN
NOEL EIFFE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3406 of 1956 on the
grounds of your adultery with his wife
LORNA JEAN EIFFE and on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse during three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise
of the Court’s discretion under Section
19 (2) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899-1954 If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 27th September 1957 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from D. G. STUART, Solicitor,
129 Pitt Street, Sydney. J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Sydney Grosvenor Galleries’
spring exhibition that it makes
things rather difficult for the
contemporaries mixed with
them. This commentator never
sees any harm in a picture that
looks like reality—why on earth
shouldn’t it? —but it does want
tc look like reality with vision
ip. the painter and quality in the
paint.
Vision and quality are rare.
And so, though there are plenty
of paintings which in other
circumstances might look well
enough, all one can do when
there are Gruner, Conder,
Streeton, Blamire Young and
Harold Herbert on view is to
see what stands up to them.
Those that do it best are a
slashing watercolor by Frank
‘McNamara (“Storm”), two
small landscapes by Lance
Solomon and, in its patterned
style, Kenneth Macqueen’s
“Cloud Arrangement.” Jean
Derrin’s “Wimbledon Com-
mon” shows a development
into a lighter key.
+*♦ +!♦ ❖
Melbourne Exhibitions
C. Dudley Wood is showing
more of his well-mannered,
nicely tailored watercolor land-
scapes at the Tasmanian
Toujist Bureau, and John
Rowell has hupg the Athemeum
with his year’s tribute to the
Australian sunlight.
This year Rowell has gone
further north than usual and
has been dazed, blinded and
bewildered by the blaze of the
tropics, judging by his Queens-
land pictures. “Pandanus
Palms,” “Canefields,” “Banana
Farm” and “The Plantation”
are certainly full of color, but
compared with “At Cape
Schanck,” “Summer Morning,
Mornington” and other
southern landscapes they are
singularly ill-considered.
Michael Michoutouchkine’s
pictures at the Australian
Galleries, Collingwood, are an
elephant of another color. They
are even more exotic, being
painted on handwoven mats
with effigies of Byzantine
saints, Begging Buddhas and
Preaching Buddhas, and Hindu
gods and goddesses mostly in
crude pigment.
They are not one half so
good as the work of the native
artists which has inspired them,
and the impression is that the
artist has travelled a long way
for very little. He could have
seen everything he saw in India,
Ceylon and Burma in the
British Museum, London.
• • • •
The most arresting portrait
in Noel Counihan’s exhibition
at the Victorian Artists’ is one
of Frank Dalby Davison.
The author has been searched
for the characteristic features
that the caricaturist gloats on,
but at the same time the visual
qualities haven’t been neglected
and the result is much more
living than the heavily painted
illustrative “On Bakery Hill,
Ballarat, November, 1854,” or
ffie portrait of Vance Palmer.
The Blight be said of
“Working in Wet ConchuOHSf”
a study of half-naked miners
toiling on a coal-face, a miner’s
lamp lighting up their sweating
bodies. This is the struggle of
the artist with religious or
political convictions to recon-
cile his human sympathies with
the aesthetic demands of the
subject he is engaged on.
Michelangelo put it very
simply when he said that he
would sooner paint a fish in
the market-place well than an
archangel badly.
Counihan’s caricatures of
Judah Waten, Alan Marshall,
Vance Palmer, Jean Campbell
and other writers are tours de
force in the medium of the
cartoonist, while his little
sketch “Model with One Leg
Supported” has the quality of
observation. His paintings of
somnolent politicians lolling
“On the Front Bench” have
both humor and observation.
Films
“Funny Face”
The title of this, at Sydney
Prince Edward, inspires the
thought that Miss Audrey
Hepburn does have a rather
funny face ; funny in its unique
long, narrow-jawed beauty, as
different from Jayne Mansfield,
say, as, to the connoisseur,
chablis must be from methyl-
ated spirits.
Moreover, the film prompts
other thoughts: that Fred
Astaire is surely a trifle long
in the tooth to be making love
to Miss Hepburn, but main-
tains his nimbi e-footed
ingenuity in a dance-routine ;
that Kay Thompson exudes
heaps of vitality in a manner
that belies her middle-aged
figure and weather-beaten
face; that the fascination of
Paris, photographed as feel-
ingly as it is here, can be
brought admirably to the
screen; and that the George
Gershwin melodies, though
“ ’S Wonderful” is the only
one you want to whistle after-
wards, have a catchy tuneful-
ness.
Audrey Hepburn plays the
girl in the Greenwich Village
bookshop, Fred Astaire the
topline fashion-photographer,
Kay Thompson the demanding
editor of a leading American
fashion-magazine. Mr. A. con-
vinces Miss T. that Miss H. is
the girl to model her fashion-
scoop in Paris, and to Paris
they go.
There, by showing more
interest in “empathicalism”
than embroideries, Miss H.
proves quite a handful. But
in an entertaining mixture of
fuShiqns, philosophy and
choreography, everything works
out just dandy.
❖ ***
“Oklahoma”
Snappy Hammerstein lyrics
set to unfailingly tuneful
Rodgers music; massed
“athletic” dancing - sequences
with as supple a bunch of
daneers as you’d find gathered
together in one film ; singing
of reasonably high standard ;
engaging humor with a light
salting of drama; good per-
formances right down to the
“bit” roles ; superb scenes of
the big outdoors the sum
total is a musical (really a
folk-operetta) which has just
about everything.
Gordon McCrae is a Curly
of the right degree of geniality
and the carefree state; Shirley
Jones is a sweetly-appealing
Laurie giving an occasional
touch of pertness to the
sugar and using a light soprand
of pleasing timbre. And if
you think you’re seeing things
with Rod Steiger in a musical,
well, he’s just the man for the
role of Jud, the cross-grained,
bitter hired-man whose deter-
mination that he alone will
have Laurie supplies the film’s
only serious touches. Another
excellent character-study comes
from Charlotte Greenwood as
the jovial, philosophic aunt.
Despite its two-and-a-half
hours’ running-time, pace and
style combine to make it seem
much less. At Sydney Regent.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Fear Strikes Out”
If ere is a crisply directed
and penetrating study of a
well-intentioned father who,
determined to see his son
succeed where he didn’t,
relentlessly drives him to the
top in big-time baseball, and
also on to a mental breakdown
because the young man, travel-
ling on his nerve, strives
fanatically to become the
perfectionist and please his
father.
Karl Malden gives a
richly satisfying performance as
the misguided parent exercis-
ing his overweening ambition
by proxy, and Anthony
Perkins, as the son, cleverly
draws the gradual change from
early enthusiasm to deep
mental strain. A Greater
Union release.
❖ ♦>
“Seven Waves Away”
As in “Lifeboat,” the whole
of the action in this film takes
place in a ship’s boat among
the survivors of a ship that
went down. But whereas the
Tallulah Bankhead film was
alive with tension, this one
is slack; and unconvincing
in characterisation. Tyrone
Power, as the ship's captain
who commands the survivors,
has to decide, when a storm
comes up, which of the
passengers in the badly-over-
loaded craft will have to be
jettisoned to save the rest (the
film is based on an actual case).
The one actor who tries to get
some character into his role
is Lloyd Nolan, as a critically-
injured officer. At Sydney
Lyceum.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Way to the Gold”
Surly-looking Jeffery Hunter
hears of a “plant” of gold
while serving a prison-sentence;
so does one of those Holly-
wood villains who employ
strong-arm stooges and bark
orders out of the corners of
slits of mouths. Three-quarters
of the time is taken up while
the good-baddie and the bad-
baddie do some shadow-
sparring, and when they do
eventually tangle the doings are
tame. At Sydney Plaza.


&
B
perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
THB HON.
T. A. J. PLAYFAIR.
M.L.0., chairman;
Silt EDWARD R. KNOX,
vicb-chairman;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYBAGHT;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
JOHN DARLING;
A. Q. ARMYTAGE.
MANAGING DIRECTOR.
W. S. MATTHEWS.
MANAGER.
Efficient and Helpful Service
for your dependents . . .
ONE of the most thoughtful and considerate things a
man can do for his family is to ensure freedom from
all the cares and worries that so frequently go hand in
hand with Estate administration.
By appointing Perpetual Trustee Company (Ltd.) as
your Executor and Trustee —alone, or jointly with a
relative or friend, you will ensure that, when the time
comes, your Estate will be in the safe, experienced hands
of a Company with a proud record of more than 70 years’
faithful service to the Community; you will ensure, for
your dependents, a service that is personal, friendly and
understanding.
If you would know more of the Company’s service,
and what it costs, ring BO 377 or write, and make an
appointment. If you prefer,
ask that a copy of the
Company’s helpful and in-
formative booklet be sent to
you. It is free and post free.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others, Administrator, etc.
88-39 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY OFFICES AT ORANGE & TAMWORTH
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY
(CANBERRA) LTD.
INDUSTRY HOUBB
NATIONAL CIRCUIT
CANBERRA
LOCAL DIRECTORS IN ADDI-
TION TO THOSE DIRECTORS
MENTIONED AT THE LEFT !
WARREN D. MCDONALD,
0.8.8., VICE-CHAIRMAN
S. O. MoFARLANE. 0.M.0.
NEVILLE C. MILSON
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Ballarat Brewing Co., Ltd.
TTARD-HIT in the 1955-56 term when
unfavorable weather combined with
higher prices to reduce demand for beer,
Ballarat Brewing Co., Ltd., was even less
successful last term, profits tumbling by
55 p.c. to bring the fall over two years
to 74.6 p.c.
Figures issued by the Acting Common-
wealth Statistician, covering 11 months
of the last financial year, suggest a drop
of approximately 3 p.c. in beer-
consumption over the full year, produc-
tion, at an estimated 226 million gallons,
falling below the 1955-56 figure by
7,000,000 gallons, but exceeding the 1954-
55 total by 4,000,000 gallons.
Reaction to last year’s jump in beer-
prices (following the 37 p.c. increase in
duty in March, ’56) varied in ‘intensity
over different parts of the country, but
in the first year of higher prices produc-
tion declined by almost 7 p.c.
The Ballarat Brewing Co. has been in
the brewery- and hotel-business for over
60 years, supplying customers (including
over 100. of its own hotels) throughout
western Victoria and the Riverina from
breweries at Ballarat and, more recently,
Geelong—Victoria’s second- and third-
largest cities. The Geelong brewery has
been largely re-equipped since it was
bought, with the other assets of the
Volum Qrewery Co., in 1953.
A one-for-two bonus-issue in 1951
lifted paid capital to its present total of
£750,000, equal amounts of 5 p.c. and
6 p.c. pref.-money accounting for
£250,000. Ord. divs. averaged 9.6 p.c.
over the 10 years immediately preceding
the bonus-issue and 8 p.c. over the next
five years, but the board was forced to
cut the div.-rate from 8 p.c. to 6 p.c.
last term, drawing on reserves to cover
the smaller payment.
Turnover for the year to May 31 last
was “much lower” than in the previous
term, and while modernisation and re-
organisation of breweries enabled sub-
stantial savings, the co. had to meet
higher costs (for labor, sugar, electricity,
etc.), gross profit from trading dropping
by £87,025 to £193,804 and income from
property by £8472 to £81,084. (Although
a record amount was spent on improve-
ments and maintenance of hotel-property,
the charge against income last term
appears to have been approximately
£13,000 lower, at something over £51,000.)
Administrative expenses were £38,844
lighter at £216,227, but after making a
smallish-looking provision for taxation
(down £23,320 at £8627) and allowing
£30,727 (down £2773) for depreciation
net profit had shrunk to £25,070, a con-
traction of £30,660:
t Dividends
A B
Pref. Prof. Ord. To Re- Re-
May, Profit. 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 7 3 p.c. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ ' £ £
1952.. 50.007 7,500 6,250 37,500 747,100
Consolidated Figures.
Profit sale plant, £449 .. .. 748,257
Deferred lease premiums, £4533 .. 752,790
1953.. 76.265 7,500 6,250 37,500 25,015 777,805
Transfer to p. and 1, a/c, £24,656 .. 753,149
Profit sale assets, £15,097 .. .. 768,246
Tax overprovided, £41,599 .. .. 809,845
1954.. 82.856 7,500 6,250 37,500 31,606 841,451
Profit sale assets, £6494 .. - .. 847,945
Purchase rebate, £6923 ~ .. 854,868
Net addition reserves, £1739 .. .. 856,607
S p.c.
1955.. 99.076 7,500 6,250 40,000 45,326 901,933
Profit sale assets, £7870 .. .. 909,803
Tax overprovided, £2405 .. 912,208
Net reduction reserves, £926 .. .. 911,282
1956. .55,730 7,500 6,250 40,000 1,980 913,262
Charged against maintenance reserve.
£17,81& .. .. .. .. 895,444
Net addition reserves, £3238 .. .. 898,682
Profit applicable to previous years,
£5444 . 904,126
Tax underprovided, £9lO .. .. 903,216
Profit, sale assets, £3Bll .. .. 907,027
6 p.c.
1957.. 25,070 7,500 6,250 30,000 888,347
Of the £43,750 sent out to shareholders,
£18,680 came from reserves, earnings,
after covering the pref. divs., equalling a
letum of only 2.2 p.c. from ord. capital
compared with 8.4, 17.1, 13.8 and 12.1
p.c. back to 1953.
More than £119,000 was spent on
hotel-properties during the year, of
which roughly £50,000 was of a capital
nature, but depreciation and sale of fucu
assets almost exactly offset expenditure:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1!)r,5. 1056. 1957.
Pref £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord. .. 500,000 500,000 500,000
Reserves .. .. 901,933 913,202 888,347
Mortgages .. 550,000 650,000 650,000
Unsecured notes .. 222,016 222,016 222,016
Overdraft .. 32,517 104,494
Creditors .. 109,323 57,474 1
Tax provision .. 55,001 31,880 )
Final div. .. 31,875 31,875 ' 21,875
£2,(120,148 £2,589,024 £2,610,603
Breweries, hotels . 1,677,008 1,672,677 1,664,932
Plant, etc. .. 374,028 420,298 427,338
Shares other cos. 347 11,000 17,500
Stock .. .. 133,946 116,998 93,262
Debtors, etc. .. 335,273 339,051 407,571
Cash, etc. .. 99,546 29,000
£2,620,148 £2,589,024 £2,610,603
Stocks were reduced by over 20 p.c. and
a £29,000 cash-holding put to work.
However, the co. still leaned more heavily
on the bank, stretching the overdraft
by £32,517 to help carry an extra £25,394
in trade debtors and £43,126 in mortgage-
loans, etc. By the end of the term
working-capital was £30,710 lower at
£300,593, following a drop of £41,263 in
the preceding term.
Results in the current term will depend
largely on the extent to which the co.
can boost turnover, and to this end an
extensive advertising campaign has been
undertaken, sales early in the term show-
ing a “definite upward trend.” Hopes
of a reduction in the rate of duty on beer
have received little encouragement from
Canberra.
Book-values give the f.-p. £1 ords. a
net tangible cover of 555. 6d., the market
pricing the scrip at 275. to return 4.4 p.c.
from a continued 6 p.c. div,
Australian General Insurance
TjyRITING fire, marine and accident
business throughout Australia, the
43-year-old Australian General Insurance
Co., Ltd., offers both shareholders and
policyholders a high degree of security,
scrip in the Sydney-controlled co., like
that in most successful and well-
conducted insurance offices, commanding
a substantial premium on the sharemarket.
Holders of the 200,000 £1 contribs.
which make-up the co.’s issued capital


were last asked to increase their invest-
ment in March, 1954, a call of ss. bring-
ing the amount paid on the scrip to 15s.
and the paid capital to £150,000. After
remaining unchanged for 11 years at 10
p.c., the div. was lifted to 12 p.c. in 1948,
the present 12£ p.c. rate being adopted
in the following year.
In common with many leading insur-
ance offices, the co. regards investment
income as the chief source of dividends,
leaving the underwriting-surplus—or at
least the bulk of it —to strengthen reserves
against the demands of less-successful
years. Investment income also benefits
from this policy as the increase in reserves
is mainly represented by additions to
investments.
Steady expansion (assisted by inflation)
has more than trebled net premium
income over the past seven years, gross
premiums rising by £41,599 to £764,079
last year (to December 31), reinsurances
leaving net premium income £10,795.
higher at £553,688:
Net Pre- Loss Exes.
Dec., miums. Claims. Exes. Ratio, Ratio,
£* &L & p.c» p.c.
1952.. 409,330 202,394 164,413 49.4* 40.1
1953.. 426,400 212,154 181,172 49.7 42.5
1954.. 475,081 236,837 194,044 49.8 40.8
1955.. 542,893 287,659 206,544 63.0 38.0
1956.. 653,688 327,658 206,042 59.1 37.3
Owing in pas to bushfires, fire-department
losses were heavier over the term, and,
with a further increase in the number and
cost of both motor-vehicle and workers’-
compensation claims, the loss-rate
jumped by 225. p.c.,.swallowing the 14s.
p.c. saving in the expense-rate and a lot
more besides. As a result, the net under-
writing surplus was £5202 lighter at
£15,488, after adding £4500 to the reserve
for unexpired risks. (Higher claims were
also responsible for a £3510 reduction in
the surplus in the preceding term.)
Investments, etc., brought in an extra
£l6OO (to make £24,876), but, with the
lower return from underwriting, the
£40,364 net profit claimed for the
was £3602 below the previous term’s
showing:
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit, f Dividend serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
To unexpired risks, £15,000 .. .. 235,777
1950 .. 27,792 124 p.c. = 12,500 15,292 251,069
To unexpired risks, £30,000 .. .. 281,069
1951 .. 28,237 .12$ p.c. = 12,500 15,737 296,806
To unexpired risks, £24,000 .. .. 320,806
1952 .. 31,066 12$ p.c. = 12,500 18,566 339,372
To unexpired risks, £ll,OOO .. .. 350,372
1953 .. 36,201 12$ p.c. = 12,500 23,701 374,073
To unexpired risks, £20,000 .. . . 394,073
1954 . . 43,430 12$ p.c. = 17,187 26,246 420,316
To unexpired risks, £28,000 .. .. 448,316
1955 .. 43,996 12$ p.c. = 18,750 25,216 473.532
To unexpired risks, £4500 .. .. 478,032
1956 .. 40,364 12$ p.c. = 18,750 21,614 499,646
As a percentage of share-capital the
underwriting surplus equalled 10.3 p.c.
and investment income 16.6 p.c., total
earnings (claimed after making unstated
provision for taxation) representing a
return of 26.9 p.c. from paid capital,
following 29.3 p.c. in 1955 and 28.9 p.c.
in 1954.
The financial structure should please
both shareholders and policyholders,
reserve for unexpired risks (at a shade
over the accepted 40 p.c. of net premiums)
accounting for £227,500 of the £499,646
of reserves: —
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital ». £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Reserves .. .. 420,316 473,532 499,6|6
Liabilities .. .. 204,696. 238,033 245,960
Tax reserve .. 49,000 43,500 36,775
Final div. .. 9,375 9,375 9,375
£833,387 £914,440 £941,756
Freeholds .. .. 28,353 28,353 28,353
Mortgages .. .. 21,850 20,100 19,050
Debentures* .. .. 29,250 32,250 37,982
Shares other cos. .. 187,826 222,167 257,125
Government securities .. 507,309 519,497 520,000
Book debts .. .. 35,543 54,670 64,117
Cash, etc. ... .. 23,256 37,403 15,129
£833,387 £914,440 £941,756
* Includes fixed deposits.
The board continued its policy of increas-
ing the co.’s shareholdings last term,
£34,958 going into “shares in other cos.,”
and, with another £5732 in debentures,
etc., further improvement in the return
from investments can be expected.
With possible future benefits in mind,
as well as the solid asset-backing, buyers
are currently offering 51s. for the £1 ords.
paid to 15s. to obtain a return of 3.6 p.c.
from a p.c. div. Excluding uncalled
capital the scrip has a net tangible back-
ing of a fraction under 655., including
225. 9d. represented by the reserve for
unexpired risks.
Mortiock Bros., Ltd.
THE number of new cars registered
during the first half of 1957 (70,037)
was 868 greater than the figure for the
corresponding period in 1956, but, with
Holden-dealers sharing an increasingly
large slice of the new-car market, dis-
tributors of many makes of vehicle are
finding the trade a lot less profitable than
it was. In a market not yet fully
recovered from the sharp increase in
sales-tax rates, intensely competitive con-
ditions prevail, generally forcing up
selling-expenses and cutting profit-
margins.
Suffering in the 1956 term from the
fall ip demand for motor-vehicles and
hampered as well by late deliveries of
stock, Mortiock Bros., Ltd., was able to
return a net profit amounting to only
33.2 p.c, of the previous term’s showing,
accounts to May 31 last revealing a
further, but smaller, drop in both
earnings and turnover. For the second
year in succession reserves were drawn
on to cover the 20 p.c. ord. div.
A Westralian co., Mortiock Bros, dis-
tributes Standard cars and commercial
vehicles from premises in Perth as well
as handling Ferguson tractors and farm
equipment, motor - cycles, industrial
engines, etc. Scrip in the 46-year-old co.
was first listed (on Perth and Melbourne
’Changes) in 1950, when 91,000 10s. ords.
were offered to the public at a premium
of 11s. a share, a one-for-two bonus-
issue following in 1951. Paid capital,
£228,978, includes £49,060 in £1 6i p.c.
prefs.
An unstated, but smaller, number of
motor-vehicles were sold by the co. last
term, and, although sales in other depart-
ments were slightly above those of the
previous year, total turnover dropped by
12 p.c. The new Ferguson tractor met
with a favorable reception, but, unfor-
tunately, supplies weren’t enough to
satisfy demand, limiting income from this
quarter, while a substantial increase in
both State land-tax and municipal rates on
company properties contributed to the
£5546 fall in net earnings:
t Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
May Profit. A B Ord. Total, serves. serves.
31, £ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £ £
From provisions, £41,242 .. .. 59,773
Freehold revaluation res., £24,057.. 83,830
Share premiums, £46,673 .. .. 130,503
'50.. 95,957 5 14.6 30=14,893 81,004 211,567
Reserves capitalised, £54,991 .. 156,576
'51..143,346 5 14.6 30 = 55,452 87,894 244,470 -
Loss sale bonds, £1914 .. .. 242,556
t Dividends —
A Pref. Ord.
5 p.c. 30 p.c.
’52..119,395 2,453 51,903 65,039 307,595
'53.. 127,046 2,453 51,903 72,690 380,285
Share premiums, £1125 .. .. 381,410
’54..135,747 2,453 53,976 79,318 460,728
'55..110,395 2,453 53,976 53,966 514,694
6$ p.c. 20 p.c.
'66.. 36,590 3,189 35,984 512,111
Tax underprovided, £133 .. .. 511,978
’57.. 31,044 3,189 35,984 503,849
Claimed after providing £20,962 (down
£3460) for taxation and £3446 (up £248)
for depreciation, the £31,044 profit was
enough to cover the pref. div. and
represent 15.4 p.c. on ord. capital, com-
pared with 18.6 p.c. in the previous term
and 60, 74.1 and 72 p.c. in the lucrative
’55, ’54 and ’53 terms respectively. To
maintain the 20 p.c. div .-rate adopted in
the previous term, £8129 was taken from
reserves.
Altered trading-conditions brought
about a redisposition of funds last term,
and, mainly to bring the number of cars
held in store into line with current
demand, stocks were cut by £298,460 (or
almost 47 p.c.), enabling a considerable
improvement in the liquid position and
a big reduction in liabilities:
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
. Pref £49,060 £49,060 £49,060
Ord 179,918 179,918 179,918
Reserves .. .. 514,712 512,111 503,849
Overdraft .. .. 85,014 57,885
Creditors .. .. 165,657 183,122 58,069
Tax provision .. 59,336 24,422 20,962
Dividends .. 56,429 39,f73 39,173
£1,110,126 £1,045,691 £851,031
Freeholds .. 155,380 225,972 239,965
Leaseholds .. 29,688 29,369 29,050
Plant, etc. .. 20,692 25,150 25,422
Stock ~. .. 739,022 635,928 337,468
Debtors .. .. 163,043 126,871 171,694
Cash, shares, etc. 2,301 2,401 47,432
£1,110,126 £1,045,691 £851,031
Debtors were slower to pay, an extra
£44,823 being added to book-debts, but
with the funds released by the reduction
in stocks £125,053 was lopped-off the
amount owing to creditors, a net £13,946
put into fixed assets and a £57,885 over-
draft replaced • by cash, etc., amounting
to £47,432. Following the overall trend,
working-capital fell by £22,208 to
£438,390.
Supplies of Ferguson tractors have im-
proved in the current term, helping the
co. to meet the demand for this product,
but another “difficult trading year” is
forecast by the board. Sales-tax conces-
sions in the forthcoming Budget would,
of course, make the task of lifting turn-
over somewhat easier—without bringing
a return of the abnormally high profits
gathered in earlier years.
The f.-p. 10s. ords. last sold on the
Perth ’Change at 21s. 6d. to return 9.3


Missing Friends
Would any person able to provide any
information as to the whereabouts of
STUART EDWARD BROWN, born at
10 Harrow Road, Stanmore, New South
Wales, on 19th December, 1905, a son
of STEPHEN EDWARD BROWN and
CAROLINE BROWN, Or as to the
whereabouts of any of his relatives
please communicate with P. S. COLT-
MAN, Solicitor, 443 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
SCOPE, ESTHER (nee DALCANTO),
widow of JAMES SCOPE, or anyone
knowing of her next of kin or present
whereabouts, please communicate with
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell St,,
Sydney, quoting Estate JAMES SCOPE.
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant super-
vision-and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY - BU 3145
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MIJ 4081
m
xWM-.x.
f/ow
about my
UFB
NCt?
Remind Dad about a Child's
Advancement Policy. A small premium will look after
my education or launch me on a career.
"The Metropolitan" has a number of suitable policies.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD. < ~»«•«
HUNTER AND BIIGH STREETS, SYDNEY. BW 6061
p.c. from a 20 p.c. distribution.
Net tangible cover is 38s.
Engineering Supply Co.
(Brisbane)
A RELIABLE 'profit-winner,
this well - established
Queenslander has never missed
a div. since it made its first
distribution in 1905, two years
after it commenced trading.
Operating from a Brisbane
head-office and Rockhampton
and Townsville branches,
Engineering Supply Co. of
Australia, Ltd. to give the
co. its full title distributes
machinery, farm - equipment,
motor - vehicle accessories,
tractors and engineering
supplies over a large area of
Queensland.
In March, ’56, shareholders
received one bonus share for
every two shares already held,
and, considering the size of this
gift, last term’s cut in the div.-
rate, from \l\ p.c. to 15 p.c.,
was relatively small, the new
rate being worth 22\ p.c. on
pre-bonus holdings. Although
divs. have averaged 13.7 p.c.
over the last decade, reserves
have been built-up at a brisk
pace, retained earnings (with
some help from the bank)
financing the post-war expan-
sion and growth in turnover
that has accompanied the
development of Queensland’s
primary and secondary
industries. Paid capital, all in
£1 ords., is £412,500.
There was a further im-
provement in turnover (undis-
closed) during the year com-
pleted on June 30 last, both
branches making a satisfactory
showing. However, higher
expenses prevented* the co.
obtaining full benefit from the
bigger income, so that after
allowing an extra £3582 for
depreciation (£11,449) and pro-
viding £65,736 (down £915) for
taxation, the board wrote
net profit £2618 lower at
£98,761:--
Xet Rg-
June, Profit. f Dividends N serves.
£ £
’49.. 50,500 10 p.c. = 27,500 }
To staff funds, £3000.. j-
’so.. 67,289 124 p.c. = 34,375 ) IQ , nnn
To stiff fmids, £3918.. j- IJ7 ’ UUU
'51.. 79,875 124 p.c. = 34,375 (
To staff funds. £5000.. j
Unexplained reduction,
£l5OO 236,000
’52.. 74,375 12} p.c. = 34,375 ( 9 . f .
To staff funds, £30,000 }
Unexplained reduction,
£15,730 .. .. 230,270
’53.. 56,250 15 p.e. = 41,250 245,270
’54..300,980 15 „ „ 41,250 305,000
Contingency reserves dis-
closed, £75,715 .. 380,715
’55..309,298' 17} p.c. = 48,125 441,888
Unexplained reduction,
£363 .. 441,525
Asset revaluation,
£200,000 .. .. 641,525
Reserves capitalised,
£137,500 .. .. 504,025
’56..101,379 17} p.c. = 51,562 -558,'842
’57.. 98,761 15 „ ~ 61,875 590,728
The 15 p.c. div. (for a full term)
required an additional £10,313,
but, with earnings representing
a 23.9 p.c. return on share-
capital, this proved no problem.
The earning-rates on the
average capital employed in
each of the four preceding
years were 32.8, 39.7, 36.7 and
20.5 p.c., back to 1953.
Alterations to the Rock-
hampton branch were com-
pleted midway through last
term, capital-expenditure add-
ing a net £37,727 to the book-
value of fixed assets (’56 valua-
tion and subsequent cost, in
the case of freeholds). Share-
capital is well supported by
reserves: —
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £412,500 £412,500
Reserves .. 553,542 r 590,727
Overdraft .. 45,802 85,188
Creditors .. 113,905 94,902
Tax provision . . 66,000 66,000
Staff funds .. 43,253 • 43,253
Final divs. .. 30,937 41,250
£1,266,239 £1,333,820
Freeholds 290,626 312,543
Furniture and
vehicles, etc... ' 45,436
Stocks .. .. 546,978 569,993
Debtors.. .. 334,505 340,992
Cash, bonds, etc. 64,504 64,856
£1,266,239 £1,333,820
Finances seem comfortable
enough, working - capital
(£645,248) altering little over
the year, Tn order to cover the
capital-outiay, carry ioi extra
£23,015 in stocks and at the
same time reduce the liability
to trade creditors by £19,003,
the co. supplemented retained
earnings with a further £39,386
from the bank.
At 525. 6d. the f.-p. £1 ords.
would return 5.7 p.c. from a
15 p.c. div., net tangible assets
providing a cover of- 48s. Bd.
per share.
Drafnti Everhot, Ltd.
A/ICTORiAN regulations
* restricting the use of this
M e 1 b o u r n e-based manu-
facturer’s chief product
electric hot-water systems—
haven’t prevented the co. from
making substantial progress
over the phst few years, a
further improvement in turn-
over last term pushing earnings
to a new peak. To overcome
the difficulties caused by these
regulations the co. developed
inter-State markets and added
kerosene-, gas-, and oil-burning
hot-water systems to the items
turned-out at its four factories
(in and around Melbourne), as
well as undertaking the manu-
facture of ' low-level flushing-
cisterns and slow-combustion
cooking-ranges.
Turnover has benefited from
the wider range of products,
and the introduction of kero-
sene- and oil-burning appli-
ances has enabled an extension
of activities to areas where
electrically - operated equip -
ment is unsuitable.
Formed in December, I^so,
Draffin Everhot, Ltd.,
exchanged 110,000 10s. ords.
and £5OOO in cash for the
share-capital of Draffin Bros.
Pty., offering a further 70,000
ords. to the public at par.
Issues in 1953 (one-for-four)
and 1954 (one-for-three), both
at par, brought.paid capital to
its present total of £150,000,
the div.-rate remaining un-
changed at 10 p.c. since the
first distribution in 1951.
Most of last term’s improve-
ment in turnover was due to
higher sales of slow-combyg-
tion cooking-ranges (now dis-
tributed throughout Australia),
but sales of other domestic
products also increased, net
profit for the year to March 31
last rising, by 38 p.c. (£12,973)
to £47,440 after putting aside
an extra £9OOO for taxation
(£34,000) and allowing £13,330
(up £2375) for depreciation:—*
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Re-
Mar. Profit. t —Dividends— ■, serves.!
31, £ £
1951.. 17,321 10 p.c. = 3,000* 41,291
Unexplained reduction,
£3613 .. .. ... 37,678
1952.. 18,172 10 p.c. = 9,000 46,850
Share-issue exps. written
off, £Ol7 .. .. 46,233
1953.. 18,348 10 p.c. = 9,000 55,581
Unexplained addition,
£6549 62,130
1954.. 24,185 10 p.c. = 11,250 75,065
Long-service leave provi-
sion, £4OOO .. .. 71,065
Share-issue exps. written
off, £5OO .. .. 70,565
1955 .. 37,627 10 p.c. 12,500 95,693
Unexplained addition,
£1425 .. .. 97,118
1956.. 34,467 10 p.e. = 15,000 116,585
Tax overprovided, £636 117,221
1957.. 47,440 10 p.c. = 15,000 149,661
* Four months only. f Subject to
intangibles, £44,246 at 31/3/’57.
Earnings were sufficient to
cover the div. three times,


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth oi Australia.
Head Office (or Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. F.gerton,
Manager for Australia.
DAVIES & COI.I.ISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
C.i. Australian and Overseas Patents
and Trade Marks. — Advt.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
equalling 31.6 p.c. on share-
capital, as against 23, 30.1, 21.5
and 20.4 p.c. back to 1953.
By keeping the div.-rate at 10
p.c. the co. has almost doubled
reserves over the last three
years.
Balance-sheet movements are
in keeping with the increased
volume of business, although
book-debts (up £24,815) would
appear to have grown at a
faster rate than turnover:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957.
Paid capital £150,000 £150,000
Reserves •• 116,585 149,661
Mortgages .. 57,015 53,743
Creditors, etc. 148,878 159,628
Long-service
leave .. 4,400 5,400
Tax provision.. 36,000 46,000
Dividends .. 15,000 15,000
£527,878 £579,432
Freeholds ..., 89,032 80,888
Leaseholds .. 19,605 21,983
Plant, etc. .. '63,315 67,401
Stock .. .. 152,993 161,121
Debtors .. 135,372 160,187
Cash, etc. .. 23,236 34,606
Intangibles .. 44,325 44,246
£527,878 £579,432
Capital-expenditure increased
the book-value of fixed assets
(a mixture of cost or valuation,
less depreciation) by £7320, the
co. completing the year with
an additional £10,750 owing to
creditors, but with cash and
investments £11,370 stronger
at £34,606. Working-capital
improved by £22,563 to a still
none-too-large £129,886.
The co. has now established
its own selling organisation in
N. S. Wales, with encouraging
results, and although trade
“steadied-down” early in the
current term, the upward trend
in recent home-building
statistics suggests that demand
for most of the co.’s products
will be maintained.
The f.-p. 10s. shares have a
net tangible backing of 175.,
the scrip bringing around
16s. 10d., at which price buyers
would receive a return of 6 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Central Norseman
Gold Corp.
"OY treating a greater quantity
" of slightly richer ore,
Central Norseman Gold Corp.,
N.L., was able to show a
further improvement in earn-
ings last term, a 60 p.c. div.
going out to shareholders for
the fourth successive year. Top-
performer in the Western Min-
ing Corp.’s group of gold-,
mines, the co. works the
Phoenix and Princess Royal
Mines at Norseman (W.A.),
W.M.C. holding 50 p.c. of the
£650,000 paid capital.
The fatter profits won over
the last four or five years have
beeh largely the result of exten-
sive development and shaft-
sinking work (aimed at reach-
ing the higher grades available
at depth) and extensions to
plant-capacity:
Ore f —Recoveries—^
Treated, Gold, Silver, Profit. Divs.
Tons. Oz. Oz. £ £
’5O 25%
137,689 44,924 31,789 182,628 162,500
’5l 15%
153,928 41,429 40,536 115,927 97,500
’52 10%
149,088 49,091 47,198 207,987 65,000
’53 50%
161,444 78,591 53,581 614,745 325,000
’54 60%
155,314 77,410 56,920 514,794 390,000
’55 60%
157,867 83,023 52,234 592,999 390,000
’56 60%
160,531 92,137 47,362 638,735 390,000
’57 60%
162,715 94,368 46,121 651,757 390,000
To return last term’s £651,757
profit (up £13,022) the co.
treated an additional 2184 tons
of ore averaging. 11.6dwt. gold
(against the previous term’s
11.48dwt.) for 94,3680 z. (up
22310 z.) fine gold and 46,1210 z.
(down 12410 z.) silver. Although
mining costs were cut by 3.35.
a ton, total operating-costs rose
from 100 s. to 101.65. a ton,
due mainly to the heavier
charge (£211,530, up £34,946)
against development, which
Jjfted development costs by 4s.
to 265. per ton.
Interest on deposits, etc.,
contributed an extra £4255 to
earnings, which, after allowing
£3321 for taxation (up £80),
equalled a return of 100.2 p.c.
from share-capital, compared
with 96.7, 91.2 and 79.9 p.c. in
the three preceding terms. By
keeping the div.-rate at 60 p.c.
the board ensured that adequate
funds would be available to
finance current development.
The Crown shaft reached
and connected with No. 14
level at the end of the year and
for the first time ore-reserves
include ore in the Crown reef
(66,000 T tons), development
keeping roughly three years
ahead of the mill. Total
reserves, at March 31 last, were
estimated at 447,000 tons going
an average B.sdwt. per ton,
1000 tons (of the same grade)
more than the figure given 12
months earlier.
At the end of the term the
co. had £791,819 in current
assets (including gold in course
of realisation, cash, etc.,
£466,443), while liabilities
combined with unstated pro-
visions totalled only £45,313.
Capitalised development costs,
less amounts written-off, were
in the accounts at £573,280, an
increase of £89,814 over the
year.
The market prices the co.’s
f.-p. ss. shares at 40s.
E. A. Greenwood, Ltd.
A/fAKING pleasing progress,
Sydney importer and
indent-agent E. A. Greenwood,
Ltd., lifted net earnings by 20
p.c. last term, despite the
iestrictive influence on trade of
credit- and import-controls.
Although the co. has halved
its liabilities, written-off good-
will and improved earnings by
over 50 p.c. in the last two
years, the sharemarket has
treated .the scrip with consider-
able caution, the f.-p. ss. ords.
last selling at 4s. 9d., to return
10.5 p.c. from the current
10 p.c. div.-rate. Net tangibie
backing is a shade over ss. 7d.
Agency-commissions contri-
buted more to total income last
year (to June 30), while turn-
over (undisclosed) was main-
tained at a “satisfactory level,”
net profit jumping by £1586 to
£9198. Claimed after providing
£5350 (up £600) for taxation
and £626 (up £179) for
depreciation, earnings comfort-
ably covered the unchanged 10
p.c. div., representing a return
of 18.4 p.c. on share-capital
(15.2 p.c. in the ’56 term), leav-
ing £4198 to strengthen reserves
(£8080).
Balance-sheet figures disclose
a high degree of liquidity, a big
(£30,209) cut in stocks, the
second in two years, reducing
their book-value to £11,052.
With the funds released the
co. was able to make a further
reduction in creditors (down
£5467 at £6765) and at the same
time place £27,240 on short-
term deposit. At the end of the
term fixed assets stood at
£4400 (up £650) and liabilities,
including provision for final
div., at £15,712, or less than a
quarter of the value of current
assets.
Paid capital, £50,000, is all in
ss. ords.
New Occidental
V/fAKING what may well be
its last distribution, New
Occidental Gold Mines, N.L.,
has declared a div. of Is. 10d!
a share payable on September
23. According to the board,
“further distribution is un*
certain.”
Incorporated in 1933, the co.
mined gold and copper in the
Cobar area of N. S. Wales,
shareholders last receiving a
div. (20 p.c.) in December,
1954, two years after mining
ceased.
Lacking the funds and invest-
ment-appeal necessary to enable
exploration and large-scale
exploitation of the low-grade
copper-and-gold ore at Cobar,
the co. offered Broken Hid
South an option over mining-
leases and plant. After some
delay the big Barrier co. (with
its own ore-reserves limited,
and encouraged by royalty-
concessions granted by the
N. S. Wales Government)
exercised its option, agreement
being reached towards the end
of last year, under which New
Occidental received £lOO,OOO
for plant, etc., and £50,000 for
the leases.
B.H. South has formed two
subsidiaries to take over the
new areas, Cobar Mines Pty. (to
operate on the predominantly
copper-bearing Great Cobar,
Cobar Gold and Chesney
leases), the other co., Cobar
South Pty., taking what are
considered to be the gold
leases.
Last term's accounts aren't
yet available from New Occi-/
dental. Buyers offer Is. lOkh
for the ss. contribs. paid to 3s.
and 2s. for the f.-p.s.
Pioneer Mines, N.L.
prices for
tungsten ores (wolfram,
scheelite, etc.) have fallen by
almost 50 p.c. over the past
year, in the case of wo'fram to
less than a quarter of the peak
price ruling six years ago. As
there is no promise of an early
recovery the directors of
Pioneer Mines, N.L., have
decided to suspend their co.'s
operations at Hatches Creek
(N.T.), and the mine and plant
are now on a care-and-
maintenance basis.


V
I?
STOP
smok/ng
// VTHR6EDAYS k
%z
Don’t risk lung cancer. Stop smoker’s cough, bad
breath, and catarrh quickly. Stop smoking, or cut
it down, NOW, with Famous and Original Hampton
Pope Stop Smoking Tablets, No will-power required.
Very pleasant to take.
GIVE ME THREE DAYS
I guarantee to stop you smoking in three days or Money
Back. If you are not satisfied and I don’t return your
money as guaranteed I will donate £5OO to Sydney Hos-
pital or YOUR favorite charity. Don’t go on puffing
your cash away. Save money and feel fitter. Send 20/-
by cash, cheque, money order or postal note with your
name and address to me today. You will get promptly,
post free, under plain wrapper, 100 Hampton Pope Stop
Smoking Tablets sealed in cellophane in handy pocket-size
strips. Don’t wait until your doctor tells you to quit
smoking. DO IT NOW.
Address: HAMPTON POPE, Dept. 8.2, 250 a
George Street, Sydney.
(Call personally, 2nd floor, for your tablets if you
wish, or ask for- them at Wynyard Pharmacy,
Wynyard Ramp. Brisbane folk can get them at any
of David’s Pharmacies.)
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
'T'HE recent White Paper on
-* Commonwealth develop-
ment is a progress-report which
sets out the achievements, the
limitations and the indications
of the future policy of the
United Kingdom, as keystone
of . the Commonwealth’s
economic structure. Although
presented by the Common-
wealth Relations Office, the
document is unmistakably
of Treasury origin arid its
publication follows naturally
on the Prime Ministers’ meet-
ing earlier in July.
The, figures are impressive
enough—a “total contribution
to development in the sterling
Commonwealth” of about £l5O
million a year (£125 million
liom private investment and
Exchequer loans and nearly
£3O million in Exchequer
grants). When investment in
Canada (£3O million) and
special grants and loans to
colonial territories are added,
the total annual figure amounts
to £2OO million or so over the
last four years. This represents
1-j p.c. of our gross national
product, or 1\ p.c. of our gross
fixed income at home. Further-
more, it is claimed that, over
the last 10 years, 70 p.c. of the
external capital invested in the
sterling Commonwealth came
from the U.K., by contrast
with 15 p.c. from the U.S., 10
p.c. from the International
Bank, and 5 p.c; from other
sources.
So much for achievement.
The White Paper then states
its limitations: “The tempta-
tion to accept liabilities which
would overtax its resources and
strain its financial structure is
dangerous not only to the
United Kingdom but to the
Commonwealth as a whole.”
This, and the further statement
that the Commonwealth
(because it lacks resources
within its boundaries sufficient
for its own development) must
seek capital outside, are tanta-
mount to saying that H.M.
Government has reached the
upper limit, in terms of hard
cash.
What extra can be spared is
clearly earmarked for assisting
the underdeveloped colonies,
since the Colonial Development
Corporation’s borrowing
powers are to be increased by
£5O million. And, even so, the
“special responsibility for the
colonies” is to cease (except
for projects already under
commitment) when they attain
independence. But this
restriction is financial only;
it will not apply to “technical
co - operation” and other
resources of brain, skill and
general knowhow, which will
be offered generously.
Cold Comfort?
While the Government is
praised for setting-out its case
frankly and cogently, there is
some disappointment at the
implications of its future
policy. The Agent-General for
Victoria, for example, has
crossed swords- with “The
Times” over its affirmation, in
d leading-article, that “Britain
has to approach the problem
in the light of her special
responsibilities. Economically
those to her colonies come
first.” His argument is that
“it is far better. to exploit
success than to reinforce
failure” ; that capital invested
in developed countries gives a
good (in Victoria, a handsome)
return, whereas it may sub-
stantially be lost in under-
developed countries.
There is also a criticism that
the figure of £2OO million is
misleading since, because of
post-war transatlantic loans and
sterling balances, a proportion
only of this sum has come from
domestic savings. The White
Paper also lays great stress on
privately-owned funds. But
there is the point that invest-
ment considerations naturally
prefer a country like Canada,
with an expanding economy,
hard currency and favorable
political background, to one
like India which, politically, is
anything but kindly disposed to
private enterprise. (Before the
Treasury clamped down a few
weeks ago on the “leak,” port-
folio investment in Canada was
at the rate of about £4 million
a month.)
It may well be, though, that
in a year or two economies in
Government expenditure will
be marked, especially in
defence, but the extremely
generous tax-free compensation
to “axed” officers cancels out
any immediate relief.
Meanwhile, the independent
members of the Common-
wealth, except in special
circumstances (the development
of Australian uranium produc-
tion is cited as one), will have
to seek capital from outside,
“both from the non-sterling
capital markets of the world
and from international institu-
tions.” But they will stand to
benefit from the relief granted '
to Overseas Trade Corpora-
tions in this year’s Finance Bill.
This complete departure from
tax-policy is, one gathers from
informed sources, the best suit
in a hand which unavoidably is
below strength.
„ D
Stage property
The layman, always puzzled
at the opulent complexities of .
theatrical finance, is left
utterly bewildered by the
muddle and confusion over the
sale of the St. James’s
Theatre.
In the first place, it seems
clear that some person or
persons acted very promptly in
obtaining planning permission
(i.e., to build offices) from the
L.C.C. in 1954, shortly before
the Minister for Housing gave
his promise that no more
London theatres would be con-
verted into offices. Then, when
negotiations were stated to have
gone too far, the Minister
declared that revocation of this
permission would involve
compensation of from £50,000
to £loo,ooo—a very large sum
considering that not a brick had
been touched.
This led to a flood of pro-
tests, mainly from the
theatrical profession, culmina-
ting in Vivien Leigh’s
“disorderly” interruption in the
House of Lords, Sir Winston
Churchill’s offer of £5OO, fairy-
godfathers coming to the rescue
from the U.S., and a last-
minute stay of execution as the
demolition contractors’ axes
were about to fall,
The history of the trans-
action, as detailed in “The
Financial Times,” is interesting,
if hardly consoling to those
who love, or serve, the arts,
The St. James’s has an
estimated value, as a theatre,
of £lOO,OOO. The site was sold
for £250,000 to a property-
company which intended to
spend a further £200,000 in
erecting a seven-story office
block. Because of the
“fashionable” position, this
would result in a gross rent of
nearly £lOO,OOO and (not to be
ignored) about £50,000 a year
to the L.C.C. in rates. And
now, after all the furore, it is
learned that the new owners are
willing to negotiate terms if “a
minimum sum” of £350,000 is
raised for the purchase-price
and other costs. That is to say,
the benefactors will have to pay
a cool £250,000 purely for
sentiment’s and art’s sake,
According to Mr. Frederick
Carter, late general-manager of
the St. James’s, its running-costs
will exceed £lOOO a week,
ignoring initial capital-expendi-
ture and production costs
(royalties, actors’ salaries and
so on). As the theatre is old-
fashioned, uncomfortable and
badly-sited, few can honestly
disagree with Mr. Carter’s
observation that “such a sum
would be far better occupied in
building a new theatre than in
preserving one with a
Damoclean sword over it.”
The question now is what
action the authorities will take.


A Visit to a Friend
Eclogue for Drama-critic, Poet,
and Goat
By RONALD McCUAIG
A CITY-POET, happy in his flat,
Was asked out to a rustic solitude,
A Critic’s Middle Harbor habitat—
The day, his wife observed, would
do them good ;
Wine would flow freely and, remember,
free ;
Friends with a motor-car would drive
them there ;
The cottage being built was there to see—
In short, we catch-up with the party
where,
Spindly as an abstract-art construction, .
The Critic’s cottage, one frame-wall
erected,
Inspired enthusiasm for a production
Of which such true-life drama was
expected,
Though, such the crush of husbands and
of wives,
So slight encouragement the papers give
them,
JSuch hackneyed pieces are suburban lives,
1 wonder people take the pains to live
them.
The Critic, bearing claret and bottled
beer,
All skin except for hat, short pants and
shoes,
Tendered the wine: “We drink from
tumblers here.”
The Poet put the demijohn to use,
Praising Ihe flying-fox strung out to evade
The cliff, down which the visitors had
stumbled,
With costly timbers for this esplanade
Of the Critic’s gully-estate that plunged
and tumbled
Another fifty feet to his makeshift shack,
Then slid away again to Middle Harbor.
The Poet refilled his glass and resumed
his attack: '
“With what an elegant poise your trees
endure,
“Ranged like an audience down your
crescent slopes,
The boredom of that broad, unchanging
scene,
The somnolent water’s blues and helio-
tropes,
Those headlands slathered-in with gummy
green,
“As though two audiences were opposed
Across a seascape-stage without a play
And, tired of looking at each other,
dozed,
Content to sleep their verdurous lives
away.”
Down to the picnic-table the Poet sat,
Poured out more wine—“So red!” he
said. “So sharp!”—
Accepted from the Critic’s wife a plate
Of salad-and-sandwiches, and went on
to harp:
“Like ducks in a mechanic shooting-
gallery
Those passing yachts and launches, I
admit,
Give movement to your sylvan cemetery —
You hire them at some boathouse at
The Spit?
“ ‘Ten-bob a yacht to serve my interests,
7'wo-bob for any passing motor-boat;
I must have action to divert my guests!’ ”
The Critic muttered something in his
throat.
\
Pausing to tell his wife to stop their child
Climbing the trees —“He’ll ruin pants and
bark! ”
The Poet, empty tumbler once more
filled,
Looked up, and was occasioned to remark
How the fresh bark of gumtrees
reproduced
The contours and textures of a woman’s
thighs.
The Critic coughed. The Poet still
enthused:
“I’ve got to see your shack!” A round
of sighs,
Like a relieving breeze at evening, fanned
The still, hot noon-. Grasping the demi-
john,
The Critic led. His tumbler in his hand,
Beneficent, the Poet followed on.
/CLUTCHING at bushes, staggering on
stones,
Slipping on earth that scattered as they
went,
Somehow avoiding falls and broken
bones,
The Poet made the fifty-foot descent,
And faced the shack the Critic, having put
Up, had put up with for five years or
more ;
Too tiled and weatherboarded for a hut,
Its bath of stainless steei beside the doer,
It breathed of a mysterious tour-de-force,
For who would set his house upon a rock
Which turned in winter to a watercourse
Unless of more, or less, than human
stock? •
The Poet, though he knew the scene by
heart
From listening to the Critic, stood like
Faust
Keen to go places with his vocal art
By praising that where Marguerite was
housed:
From here, on most theatrical first-nights,
Her high-heeled shoes in hand, her finery
Upheld, the Critic’s wife went up those
heights,
Her mundane and unsung Gallipoli:
How many an actor skidded in the mire
That muddied the returning Critic’s way!
Or if it splashed the Critic’s wife’s, attire
Some harmless dancing-woman had to
pay!


Fluting these thoughts, mellifluous and
suave,
The Poet twittered in the Critic’s ear:
“That which has caused them grief has
made you safe,
For who would seek revenge as far as
here?”
And in the shack, when everything was
shown,
He was the District Visitor complete:
They had no cedar-wardrobe like his own,
But everything was —well, compact and
neat.
“Now,” he demanded, “where’s the water-
front?”
His face resilient as a catapult,
Impassive, as must be a critic’s wont,
Whom nothing must unbalance or insult,
The Critic left his other friends to rest,
Poured for the Poet yet another drink,
And went out wordlessly beside his guest,
Departing for a moment on the brink
Of a new chasm, to appear again
Out of the scrabble of gums and under-
brush
Leading a huge white she-goat by a
chain,
And so the three went downwards through
the bush,
The bush that, like a pharmacy, burnt-out,
Flooded with water by the fire-brigade,
Reeks of wet ashes rolled and raked
about
And jaded disinfectant-odors made
By aromatic and Xantippean plants
That chafe the traveller while cicadas
chide :
In silence, these three diverse ruminants
Tore themselves free at Middle Harbor
side.
'THE Critic on a rock above his cove*
His shoulders like a coat of copper
mail,
Gave with his elbows an illusion of
A devil-fish erect upon its tail.
The great white nannygoat, stretched out
between
Two boulders, pulled perversely at a
spray,
Her white coat sharp against the leafy
green
In film, straight lines of catalogue-
display.
The Poet faced the cove ; it was no more
Than a small basin, brown with small
dead leaves,
A tiny indentation in the 'shore
Studded with rocks and oyster-shells like
knives,
But now a half-a-demijohn of wine
Was fuming in the Poet's head, and he
Saw nothing but a symbol and a sign:
Man’s Alpha and his Omega, the Sea
Whence Venus rose, and where Leander
drowned —
Not that he wanted Venus, or to die:
For reasons superficial or profound
Off came his coat, his shoes, his socks, his
tie,
His shirt and trousers —here a little launch
Up-anchored thirty yards out in the
stream
And fled the sight of the emerging haunch
That'shocked it from its maiden midday
dream.
The Critic ventured on a warning word:
“You watch out for those oyster-shells—
I would.”
But then a rasping undertone was heard:
“Shut up, you fool! It’s going to be
good!”
The Poet turned, poised in his underpants.
The Critic, motionless, returned his stare.
The cropping goat cut short a furtive
glance.
There was no other living being there.
Thinking the voice a moment’s self-deceit
The Poet walked in water to his knee ;
At every step the shells cut at his feet
And, seeking deeper waters, oyster-free,
He dived, encountering, with a blinding
thud
That almost broke his nose, not Venus’
charms
But a dead branch, half-buried in the
mud ;
At most, no more than one of Daphne’s
arms.
Thrusting the branch aside, he tried to
swim,
But hidden boulders had him in their
spell;
At every stroke he took they hindered
him
And cut him with their sharpened knives
of shell.
■pOR honor’s sake he swam another
length,
Draining this bay of sorrow to its dregs,
Then clambered out with his remaining
strength,
Blood trickling down his arms and down
his legs,
Dazedly reaching for his shirt; and while
He sought to dry the salt and blood away
The Critic broke into a beaming smile,
Relaxed, at ease for the first time that day,
And said, as though confiding to the goat:’
“Mo at his best couldn’t have bettered it!
That Quattrocento-painter’s anecdote,
That martyr bleeding from the blades of
wit! ”
The Poet treated this with his ignore,
Pulled on his shirt and buttoned-up a cuff,
“Not Mo,” the nasal voice he’d heard
before
Remarked. “Oh, no; he wasn’t fat
enough.”
The Poet shivered in the hot, bright sun:|
The Goat had really spoken, after all!
“No?” said the Critic. “Wallace—he’s
the one;
Or is he, for your taste, too short or tall?’*
The Nanny shook her head. “You’d like
them straight,”
The Critic said, “like Brennan or Berrell?
Or Walter Sullivan? Or no; wait;
wait;
You’re right; it calls for bathos, eh?,
Fennell!”
“Well,” said the Goat, “from what you’ve
said, George Wallace
Would do the scene with comic savagery;
Brennan derive from pain a noble solace ;
Berrell assert a plain man’s dignity,
“And Sullivan disdain it like a lord;
Fennell, perhaps, provoke a tearful
smile —
Some acting-standard would have been
assured;
At least they have a glimmering of style.
“But from this creature you’ve palmed-
off on me
What pleasure can the critical contrive?
He doesn’t look himself enough to be
A character you feel to be alive;.
“No poise, no gesture and no sense of
dress,
Insinuating tone, expressive mime:
My years as your dramatic governess
Have been, I see it now, a waste of time.’*
The Critic cast an apprehensive eye
Upon the Poet, and with absent mind
Motioned him up and, turning thought-
fully,
Moved off without another look behind
A ND, still in conversation with his
Nan,
Led upwards by a different path, so steep,
The Poet, now a dumb, bewildered man,
Was forced from time to time to crawl
and creep.
“I’m sorry you’re not pleased,” the Critic
said.
“Professionals cost money to engage.
My building has me so far in the red
I can’t afford to stage them at this stage ;
“And, taking what material’s at hand,
Certain things devolve upon a host;
One can’t contrive events, you under-
stand?


One lets what happens happen, at the
most.
“And take that dive, and how he skinned
his nose—
It had a kind of circus-clowning touch;
There’s worse on Dyer’s television-
shows —
You tend, I tell you, to expect too much.”
“Heh! ” said the Nanny, almost mollified
By this appeal to reason ; but a cud
Of slights and grievances too long denied
Returned with all the sorrows of her
blood,
And as a classics-master who has been
Dismissed, a hopeless drunkard, will
bewail
The times in a low bar with half-obscene
Revivals of old grace, she told her tale:
“My tribe has given its name to Tragedy,
The goatsong sung by men in goatskin
coats;
The circle of the Dionysian revelry
Formed the world’s theatre around us
goats.
“Then we were present as the sacrifice,
But now that theatres have roofs and
walls
We are shut out of our own mysteries,
Yes, even from the Circle and the Stalls ;
“And of the sacred orgies of Dionysus,
The Fertile One, the Giver of the Vine,
Only the Cocktail-party now remains
to us,
To bring the drama-critics into line ;
“Yes, to the rites that bore satyric comedy,
The critics go as prim and meek as lambs,
And fill the space of old poetic ecstasy
With columns of prosaic dithyrambs.”
“Ingrate!” the Critic thundered. “This
must cease!
Have I not fattened you when times were
hard,
And read you Granville Barker’s Prefaces,
And Chambers on the dating of the
Bard?
“However great your influence may be,
Rather than let a nannygoat presume
Upon Jier service to my wife and me
I’ll send you packing back to You-know-
Whorn! ”
“Hush, Master,” said the Goat; “your
friend will hear.
Let us not quarrel. Show him your new
house.”
And favoring the Poet with an evil leer
She turned away and sauntered off to
browse.
TOURING this conversation they had
come
Back to the building house and picnic-
table.
The Critic demonstrated his new home,
.Mastering his rage as well as he was able.
The Poet, dazed by all he’d undergone
And heard and seen, was civilly-inclined ;
It was “Just fancy that, now!” “No!”
“Go on!”
And “Oh, of course!” and “Yes, that’s
what X find!”
Indeed, so humble had the Poet grown
That, seeing the Critic pack the luncheon-
dishes,
He took a jug himself to carry down,
Against, it must be said, the Critic’s
wishes,
And thus, descending for the second
time
The sheer path to the shack, the Poet fell,
His ankle cracked and, with a tinkling
chime,
Just as the Critic feared, the jug as well,
And as he sprawled and scrabbled at the
ground
The Poet heard, completing his dismay,
An animal sniggering, and goatfeet
bound
Scuttering through the bracken and away.
I will not say how he suppressed the rude
Expressions that in lesser men might
rankle,
Or, fortified with wine or fortitude,
Proclaimed the wholeness of his fractured
ankle;
How, anxious to continue with the show,
And tea-time having come and gone, he
then,
The time being come for visitors to go,
Limped out to face those awful heights
again.
Nor need I waste the wordage to insert
How, at the outset, he misplaced a foot,
Twisted, and sprawled once more upon
the dirt,
The company attending shocked and mute
Until his child said softly to his mother,
“He’s drunk again,” and she, the clearly-
spoken,
Whom no fault could escape, no mis-
chance bother,
Replied, “I rather think his ankle's
broken.”
Nor need I mention how he took a stick,
Truly a poet hobbling to his star
(Yea, though the road be steep, the
thickets thick),
Up to the plateau and the waiting car.
Nor to that final scene need I digress
(Jt always has its audience convulsed)
Where, trying to kiss the hand of his
hostess,
He firmly, with aversion, was repulsed.
AWAY! Away! I’d have him driven
from here,
The driver cautioned never, never to stop,
But—well, the daily closing-hour was
near;
They pulled up at an open chemist’s shop.
There, while they waited for his wife
to buy
The unguents for his torn and tortured
flesh,
The Poet looked morosely at the sky,
And rubbed his eyes, and focused them
afresh:
He had not been mistaken ; it was there,
Against the clouds of evening, rose and
dun:
The great white goat was wheeling
through the air,
Rising in spirals past the sinking sun.
Straddling her shoulders in a black tail-
coat
The Critic sat and, side-saddle behind,
The Critic’s wife, her glittering hair afloat]
Her silken draperies fluttering in the wind.
Reaching the utmost height she had to
gain
The white goat hovered ; then her head
went down
And, moving on a Tong, descending plane,
She vanished in the distance towards the
town.
The Poet broke into an icy sweat;
With what strange powers had he spent
the day?
By what miscalculation did he get,
Even so mutilated, safe away?
He leaned towards the pair in the front
seat
Oblivious of his vision and his fright;
“Tell me,” he said ; “that place in Phillip
Street —
Aren't they beginning a new show
tonight?”
“Yes,” said the lady ; “not before their
time—
Didn't you know our friends were going
to it?
That awful bus-ride! That appalling
climb!
Really, I don’t know flow the poor things
do it!”
The Poet grunted as his wife returned ;
The car-door slammed ; the engine
whirred and throbbed ;
The Poet’s ankle throbbed; the gear-
change churned ;
The car moved off ; the asphalt whined
and sobbed ;
Down a screwed hill, across The Spit,
upborne
By the steep rise to Mosman on the ridge,
Threading the shop - lined roadway
through Cremorne,
They dropped down from North Sydney
to the Bridge ;
)
And here the Poet’s mournful spirits
fled —
He had not on this passage cared to talk—
He laughed uproariously ; and then he
said,
“I always knew they didn’t have to walk! ”
So, as the sun went down, and lights
came on
Like candles on Methuselah’s birthday-
cake 4
Making an icing of the city stone,
Transforming into an enchanted lake
The soiled and swirling waters of the
Quay,
Beyond the powers of darkness to control,
Peace, which is partly truth, part-fantasy,
Shone past the sunset on his undulant
soul. ‘


An Anthropologist at Large
What Did ’E Do with the Didgeridoo?
By JOHN GREENWAY
Professor John Greenway, of the University of Denver
( U.S A.), came here to study folksongs and other lore of
the kind, and, while he was about it, more-or-less
incidentally compiled a monumental Bibliography of
Australian Anthropology! Maybe as recreation after
all that he wrote this lighthearted article for The
Bulletin.
IT all began with the full-
blooded aborigine who was
chess-champion of Aus-
tralia . . .
No, I didn’t believe it either,
and it was really pride that
sent me blacktracking the
rumor of this improbable
gentleman down the wallaby-
track of fact and folklore from
Boulder, Colorado, to his
humble reality on the Point
Macleay Mission Station in
South Australia.
I had just done well in the
State chess championships and
was standing rather in awe of
myself ; and so, when the chair-
man of a graduate seminar in
psycholinguistics at the Uni-
versity of Colorado of which
I was a member implied that
when I got to Australia I should
have the unique experience of
being trounced by a troglodyte,
and, if what we had heard of
the dietary habits of the native
Australians were true, an
anthropophagous troglodyte at
that —well, it just was not to
be borne.
I was mollified somewhat to
hear that the source of the
chairman’s information was
the brilliant but erratic physical
anthropologist M. F. Ashley-
Montagu, whose reliability has
been Linger suspicion ever since
he began propounding th&'
egregious nonsense that women
were intellectually superior to
men.
Nevertheless, as a student of
folklore, I knew that at the
bottom of every myth there was
a nucleus of truth; Ashley-
Montagu had found a black’
fellow pawn-pusher somewhere.
So when I came to Aus-
tralia I went to see C. J. S.
Purdy and A. P. Elkin, who
between them know just about
all there is to know about Aus-
tralian chess and the Australian
aborigines. They agreed: nary
an aboriginal chess-master.
BUT this was only negative
evidence ; I had to track-
down the reference in a
Bibliography of Australian
Anthropology. When I
recovered from the shock of
learning that there was no-such-
a-thing I set about to compile
one, and after eight months of
almost daily work I had an
index to more than 13,000
books, articles, news-items,
manuscripts and theses dealing
with the Australian aborigines
—and, incidentally, I had the
truth about the elusive
aboriginal chess-champion.
. First of all, he was only a
draughts-player, and a mediocre
draughts-player at that. The
slight transition to chess came
through a non-player who
knew that, since both games
are played on the same kind
of board, the difference at most
was negligible.
The story had come to
Ashley-Montagu through a
news-release in London “Daily
Express” (May 27, 1926); the
“Express” built upon a similar
item in Melbourne “Argus”
(April 20, 1926) reporting the
results of an Adelaide draughts
tournament, but, unwilling to
kill a good story, said nothing
about the retraction in the
“Argus*” two days later a
letter from the vice-president
of the Melbourne Draughts
Club, stating that the aborigine
in question “did not defeat
anyone in the winner’s class,”
and, in fact, “had lost more
games than anyone else.”
“ANTHROPOLOGY—PAH!!!"
(Drawn by Eric Jolliffe, for many years a BULLETIN black-and-
white artist, and presented to his friend Norman Barnett
Tindale, Curator of Anthropology at the South Australian
Museum, Adelaide, where the original drawing is now housed.)
A later issue of the “Argus”
put things back in the proper
perspective by admitting that
the favorite game of the
aborigines was two-up.
And so folk-heroes are made;
so Davy Crockett, a rum-
soaked, loud-mouthed, slack-
minded Washington barfly,
becomes the hero of the Alamo;
and Ned Kelly . . .
But perhaps I ought not to
say anything about Australian
heroes. Truth is, after all, a
matter of democracy; what
most people believe is right.
LIKE the returning-
boomerang.
Under the weight of hundreds
of references in the popular
press the fact has become
obscured that the pre-European
natives used the returning
boomerang only when they
wanted to imitate the flight of
the duck-hawk over water in
order to drive the ducks into
their traps.
The South Australian
Museum, as a matter of
fact, has been looking out
for the genuine returning-
boomerang for years, but
in its collection of more
than 2500 boomerangs there are
only a half-dozen of this rare
type.
And then there is the un-
quenchable tale of the White
Woman Captive, which; iike-xh©
bunyip, has been seen at
regular intervals for more than
a century, despite the fact that
there is, usually a prosaic ex-
planation for each rumor.
Indeed, the nearest approach
to a genuine White Woman
Captive was a figurehead which
the natives had salvaged from
a shipwrecked vessel.
Mere fact will not prevail
against the authority of print,
for, like Misery, most people
have a transcendent faith in the
supernal power of the printed
word. Misery was an aboriginal
stock-boy on a far-outback
Northern Territory station
some 40 years ago. One day his
boss sent him on the three-
days’ journey to town to buy
some tobacco. Since, like most
aborigines, he was unwilling to
carry a verbal message, the
order was written out, and the
(Continued on page 56)


Uniform-tax Judgment and—
Budgets and Budgeteers
TI/HEN Budget season approaches State
* * Treasurers would not be human if
they didn’t cast envious thoughts in the
direction of Sir Arthur Fadden and con-
trast his well-lined purse with their own
attenuated moneybags. The last adjec-
tive is used in a relative sense; in com-
parison with pre-war figures all Treasury
purses are now filled to overflowing—
and the difference is not all accounted
for by the decline in the value of the
Australian pound.
In 1938-39 the total revenue of the
States from all sources was £126 million,.
N. S. Wales top-scoring with £52.5
million and Victoria accounting for £27
million. In the year ended June 30 last
N.S.W. budgeted for a revenue of £221
million and Victoria for £133 million.
Each of these States now raises (and
spends) considerably more than the whole
six States handled in the year before the
war ; also more than the Commonwealth
Treasurer was responsible for at that
time.
In the same period Commonwealth
revenue rose from £95 million to £1230
million. Even allowing for the fact that
£244 million was handed back to the
States as their share of income-tax, the
current Federal revenue is about 10
times the pre-war figure. Sir Arthur
Fadden handles in one year more than
any of his predecessors (with the excep-
tion of Ben Chifley) handled in their
whole career. While Commonwealth
revenue has been multiplying itself by
10, State revenue (including Common-
wealth reimbursements) has increased
only fivefold.
The Federal Treasurer can, of course,
point to his vastly increased defence-bill
(£l9O million compared with the £8
million grudgingly voted in 1938-39); his
social-service commitments (£227 milligg.
compared with £l6 million) and to'the
fact that the Commonwealth has for
several years paid for all its capital works
out of revenue, leaving the full proceeds
of the loan-market to the States.
If and But...
To this the States reply that Canberra
doesn’t give ’em enough income-tax, any-
way, and that if it didn’t pay for its
capital works out of revenue it would
need less revenue and would therefore
collect less tax-money, and the taxpayers
would thus be left with more money to
save and would in consequence contribute
more to Commonwealth loans —and so
forth.
To which the Federal Treasurer replies,
not unnaturally, with a scoffer’s laugh.
(“Scoffer” is here used in the sense of one
who laughs derisively, not, as the State
Treasurers might think more appropriate,
the laugh of one who has scoffed the lot.)
As in most arguments which don’t
depend on simple, easily tested facts, there
is something to be said for both sides.
Despite Fadden’s offer, made at a Loan
Council meeting, to pass income-taxation
powers back to the States if they could
agree on a common basis for the change,
there can be little doubt that the
Commonwealth Government appreciates
the power uniform-taxation gives it to
keep within bounds the inflationary tend-
encies of State Treasurers.
And although most State Treasurers
have expressed a desire for the return of
their taxing-powers, some of them seem
strangely reluctant to do anything about
it. It is politically expedient to put up
with the disadvantages of the system and
at the same time blame the parsimonious
Federal Government for the apparent
shortage of funds to complete public
works which might never have been
started had the responsibility of raising
the money rested on the Governments
who authorised them.
Twelve months ago N. S. Wales
Premier Cahill, in delivering his Budget-
speech (a day before Fadden’s), said:
Under the uniform-income-tax scheme,
the States have lost control of this major
item of revenue. Grants under the formula
have been inadequate for many years, as the
Commonwealth itself has admitted, and
supplementary grants have been made avail-
able. These, however, are determined
arbitrarily each year by the Commonwealth,
and all State Premiers, irrespective of party,
are in agreement that even with the sup-
plementary grants, the tax-reimbursements
do not represent a reasonable share of
income-taxation.
Mr. Cahill had just finished the 1955-56
financial year with a deficit of £6,833,000,
more than three times the shortage he
had budgeted for most of it due to
losses on Government trains and trams.
Faced with estimates of even heavier losses
in the current year he had already
announced steep rises in fares and
freights. These, he explained, had been
necessitated by the Commonwealth
Government’s “deliberate policy of
fdfctng State GoWfftmenls to finance
their services, not in the equitable way
the State would finance them if it had
a fair share of income taxation, but by
increasing charges which fall equally on
all people irrespective of their incomes,
and by imposing new and less equitable
forms of taxation.”
Other Factors
He did not say what proportion of his
deficit was caused by his surrender to the
trade-unions in the matter of paying auto-
matic quarterly adjustments on wages
under State awards and on all wages of
Government employees whether under
State or Federal awards. Nor did he
reveal how much his Government’s weak-
kneed attitude over so-called penalty-
rates for weekend work had contributed
to transport-deficits.
In speaking of new and less-equitable
forms of taxation, Cahill apparently
referred to his Land Tax, estimated to
bring-in £3f million in its first year, and
to other imposts such as the enormously
increased registration-fee for factories.
When Mr. Cahill delivers his financial
report early next month he will have to
announce that, despite increased fares
his transport-deficit is at least £2\ million
more than he budgeted for—a result for
which the Federal Treasurer can scarcely
be held to blame. Windfalls in the shape
of exceptionally high receipts from
probate-duty and unneeded flood-relief
provision have enabled him to emerge
with an overall surplus somewhat higher
than the £30,000 budgeted for.
In the Victorian Parliament round
about the same time Premier Bolte spoke
of “the serious disequilibrium in Victorian
State finance which is inescapable under
the present system of uniform-taxation.
This system severely restricts our
sovereignty and places very narrow limits
on the revenue fields available to us.”
However, he rejected the alternative of
raising fares and freights, on the grounds
that this would aggravate rising costs and
result in road-transport making further
inroads into railway-traffic. Instead, he
budgeted for a deficit of £2,445,000, about
£BOO,OOO less than the previous .year’s
deficit, apparently with the idea of getting
out of the red in gradual stages. His
hopes don’t seem to have been realised;
latest estimates place the Victorian deficit
for 1956-57 at £4 million.
High Court
Mr. Bolte’s other reason for marking-
time was probably a desire to wait for
the outcome of his High Court challenge
on uniform-taxation, on which he had
been pinning considerable hopes ever
since his Government came into office
in 1955. In this challenge he was joined,
belatedly, by Mr. Cahill, who despite his
periodical fulminations against the
system had proved a rather reluctant
dragon when it came to actual cOmbat
with Kni|ht--Treason
Tn the High Court hearing last May
counsel for the two States contested the
validity of uniform-taxation .in peace-
time. They also protested that reimburse-
ments are not in proportion to popula-
tion or in the same proportion as the
amount of income-tax collected in each
State; further, that the reimbursements
are not in the same proportion as each
State received in income-tax before the
introduction of the system. The hearing
was completed on May 8 and judgment
was reserved.
The decision delivered last Friday gave
the two States a part victory. By a
four-three majority the court declared
invalid a provision of the Income Tax
Act which gave the Commonwealth
precedence over the States in the collec-
tion of income-tax. At the same time it
was the unanimous opinion of the court
that the States Grants (Tax Reimburse-
ment) Act was valid.
It is not likely that the High Court
judgment will make any difference to the
Budgets, State and Federal, about to be
brought down. But it could make a dif-
ference to the speeches of the Budgeteers.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
£lsoo w.-f.-a. Warwick
Stakes (seven furlongs) and
the £1350 Spring Cup (11
furlongs) are the feature events
of the spring meeting carded
for Warwick Farm next Satur-
day. Several A.I.C. Derby,
Epsom and Metropolitan
candidates will go through their
paces at the meeting.
The Warwick Stakes, won in
the past by the best Australian
and N.Z. gallopers, this year
has horses of the calibre of
Zariba, Prince Delv i 11 e,
Mandingos, Evening Peal,
Kingster, Caranna, Llanisfair
and Tulloch among its noms.;
it should be a lively seven.
• • I •
New Zealanders El Khobar
II and Syntax ran first and
second in the Warwick Stakes
last August, with Caranna
third. N. Sellwood, who rode
the winner, also scored on
Prince Cortauld in 1955, and so
is in line for the hat-trick.
Darby Munro had his first posi-
tive result in the Warwick
Stakes when Rogilla (1935)
dead-heated with Silver King
(Ted Bartle). Munro later
scored on Allunga, Beaulivre,
Katanga, Removal, and Tarien
—a notable performance.
Tarien’s 1.24 in 1954 is the
race-record.
Todman resumed racing at
Warwick Farm, and by his
easy win in the Hobartville
Stakes showed that he has lost
none of his two-year-old
brilliance. Whether he will get
a distance is yet unknown.
The Canterbury Guineas (run
at 9\ furlongs on September
7) or the Rosehill Guineas (10
furlongs, September 21) could
disclose this. Trainer Mc-
Carten intends that one of these
two races will be Todman’s
final outing before contesting
the A.J.C. Derby.
Gay Ranick, on his latest
displays, looks a Metropolitan
Handicap prospect on 7.4,
though his stable (he’s with
T. J. Smith) has better-
THREE WALLABIES
ALAN CAMERON, powerful
second-row man.
BOB DAVIDSON, captain of
the side; a tireless front-row
forward.
ALAN. MORTON, speedy
flank man.
performed representatives
engaged in the race. Gay
Ranick came from a long way
back to win the Warwick
Farm August Handicap with
7.8; he may have at last
struck the form anticipated as
a three-year-old. At three he
indicated staying ability by
finishing second to Caranna in
the A.J.C. Derby and also
second to Sailor’s Guide in the
A.J.C. St. Leger. He won only
one event that season, a mile-
and-a-quarter Auburn Stakes
at Rosehill. as a maiden. He
was gelded at the end of his
three-year-old season. He won
his next race, another Auburn
Stakes at Rosehill, about a
month back and later at the
same track was second to Bay-
stone in open company.
When Short Stop was
paraded as a yearling at the
Randwick sales the final bid —
225gns.—didn’t quite reach the
reserve; a sale was later
effected at 250gns. Short Stop
gives promise of developing
into a smart performer—he has
won two races, and looks to
have been a cheap buy. Short
Stop’s win in the Warwick
Farm Three-year-old Novice for
colts and geldings was impres-
sive. He is by Berrylands
(imp.) from Sunny Way by
Nice Day (imp.) from Henrietta
by Harinero (imp.), and
belongs to the family which
produced Amounis, winner of
33 races and £48,297 in stakes.
• • • •
When prominent trainers
win races at outside prices the
difficulties confronting punters
are emphasised. For example,
two of last Saturday’s
Warwick Farm races were won
by longshots from the stables
of T. J. Smith and F. Dalton.
Landy, in the Campbelltown
Handicap, was the surprise
Smith winner at 20 to 1 ; Go
Lightly from the Dalton stable
won the Glenlee Handicap at
25 to 1. Landy at least had
good form in his favor; it’s
just that no one looked his
way for the sprint. Smith
appears to have a real Epsom
chance with this five-year-old
Midstream gelding. Go
Lightly, with no form, was
handicapped on the limit, and
won impressively from the
unlucky favorite Half Hennesy,
who was hampered for a run
on the rails.
• • • •
Apprentice D. Pritchard, who
has won more than 40 races
(nearly all of them in the New-
castle area), has something on
the 71b.-apprentice lads in
Sydney, and he is making the
most of it. He rode three
winners last week, and his
services are now in keen
demand. Pritchard rode a
heady race to win the Gradua-
tion Stakes at Warwick Farm
on Arden.
Any notion that Syntax
would not live up to reputa-
tion was dispelled when the
handsome New Zealander over-
came difficulties to win the
Liston Stakes at Flemington last
Saturday. And the race gave
further proof, if it were needed,
that Bill Williamson is head
and shoulders a better jockey
than any other Victorian rider.
Williamson kept his mount in
fourth place until the turn;
but when heads were turned for
home Syntax lost his position,
and a furlong out was badly
placed about sixth, with the
leader Wales careering away
to what looked like a winning
lead. At that stage Williamson
sooled the champion through a
narrow rails opening, and,
responding magnificently, Syn-
tax raced to the leader to score
a convincing half-length win.
• • • •
A deal of credit is due to
“Bon” Hoysted (who has taken
charge of Syntax during his
father’s long illness) for turn-
ing the horse out in such magni-*
ficent condition. Those race-
goers who saw Syntax for the
first time last Saturday saw
a horse full of quality, who
justified his position as Caul-
field Cup favorite. It was
probably the last time this
season that bookmakers will
offer odds against the Nevy
Zealander winning a weight-
for-age event.
• •] '•] •
A sidelight of the Liston
Stakes was that all three place-
getters were N.Z.-bred. Wales,
who was unfortunate to strike
such a champion, indicated by
his second placing that he may
win one of the important races
of the spring carnival; and
Sir William, who is just short of
top-class, ran up to his best
form with an excellent third
placing.
•• r §l •
Victorian hopes for success
in this year’s classics received
both a check and a stimulus
in the running of the mile
Montrose Handicap at Flem-
ington. Well Placed, who had
won at his previous three starts,
and who had been regarded as
the southern State’s best hope


in the Derbys, ran a dismal
race to finish with the tail-
enders. On the other hand, the
N.Z.-bred gelding Dark Spot
confirmed the staying promise
he gave in the autumn by
running on strongly for an
easy win. Trainer Stan
Smithers was jubilant after the
gelding’s success, and said he
only had to train on to be a
certain starter in the A.J.C.
Derby. By Summertime out
of Inky, Dark Spot stays like
a bailiff, and will not be
troubled by the Derby distance.
In the immediate post-war
years the purple and pink
colors of Melbourne shoe-
manufacturer “Ossie” Porter
were as prominent as any on
the Victorian turf ; but of more
recent years Porter has severely
cut the size of his team. One
of the horses he retained, Royal
Somme (for whom he paid
3200gns. as a yearling), justified
that confidence with a com-
fortable win in last Saturday’s
Chairman’s Handicap at
Flemington, The win was
overdue —the five-year-old Del-
ville Wood gelding had run
only one minor placing in 12
previous starts. Porter ex-
pressed hopes after the race that
Royal Somme would emulate
his old favorite St. Fairy, and
win a Caulfield Cup, for
which race the gelding is
handicapped on the minimum,
6.7.
• •
To the cosmopolitan roll of
Victorian apprentice jockeys
has been added a Japanese lad
—Kiyotomo Yatome. Race-
goers will not have to cope
with that mouthful: the boy
will ride as Jimmy Clarke.
Jimmy was born 15 years ago
in Kure, son of a ship’s
engineer who was later killed in
a dockside explosion. The
widow married Sergeant Clarke
of the Australian Occupation
Forces and brought Jimmy
and his younger brother to
Victoria. The elder boy is
apprenticed to trainer G. White,
who describes his style of
riding as “fearless.”
Mornington (Vic.) s t u d -
master Cyril Doody has refused
an offer from an N.S.W. breeder
of 10,000gns. for his stallion
Sandastre. The son of Macaron
has been a remarkable success
in his short stud-career. Of
the 18 of his progeny who have
raced, 13 have been winners;
and they include Futurity
winner Parvo and Adrian
Knox Stakes winner Sandara.
* -* *
Trainer-driver J. D. Watts
continued on his winning way
at the Harold Park trot-fixture
last Friday night. Displaying
a rare sense of race-tactics, he
wheeled the niggardly chest-
nut Red Monarch to victory
in a division of the Qualify-
ing, and followed with another
TWO MORE
SAXON WHITE, brilliant
centre.
NICK SHEHADIE, prop-
forward; holds the record for
Test appearances—28 in all.
drive of rare judgment behind
Sibelia in the Harold Park
Handicap. Sibelia, 18 months
ago a little bag of bones
racing around the provincials,
is now being compared with
great mares of the past. Court
Lady, Dainty Rose —not yet?
Give her another six months.
Friday’s win from 24yds, in
a 2.17 class qualifies her for
the 2.14-front Spring Cup. Her
2.9 f rate in the mud and rain
was remarkable.
* * *
BUSH MEETING
'THE Birdsville Amateur
Turf Club showed a profit
of £7OO the other week at what
is possibly Australia’s most
unusual race-meeting. The
meeting, this year conducted to
laise funds for the Flying
Doctor Service and the Aus-
tralian Inland Mission, is an
annual affair, and as such is
regarded by outback folk as an
important social event.
A local population of 28 was
increased to 300 by visitors
from surrounding districts.
Horses were stabled in yards
built along the banks of the
Diamantina River. Visitors and
horses came from as far away
as Marree in South Australia, a
distance of 450 miles. Prize-
money and trophies for the
£4OO programme were donated
mainly by the Kidman Estates
and W. F. Brook, of Adria
Downs.
Odd spots at the two-day
carnival: the Queensland Fly-
ing Doctor landing his plane
down the track’s straight in
between races; patrons not
being charged admission ; no
publican’s booth on the
grounds; wealthy graziers
repeatedly donating race-win-
nings to the club’s funds.
Principal race at the meeting
—the Birdsville Cup—was won
by Estracarda, who is owned
and trained by Claude Old-
field, of Marree (S.A.). He
humped 10.7 to victory.
Smartest galloper over the
two days was Florinsworth,
who won the Publican’s Purse.
He carried 10.7 and clocked
lmin. 2sec. for the five-furlong
journey. Owned by Mr. Alec
Rabig, of Marree, Florins-
worth was ridden by “Kiwi”
Walters, the only professional
jockey riding at the meeting.
The meeting's most suc-
cessful horseman was amateur
rider George Fielding. He rode
a winning double on the first
day and scored five winners on
the seconds —the first four
straight.
W. E. P.
+ . +
And Sundry Sports
THE 30 1957-58 Rugby
Union Wallabies, to leave
next month for Britain,
France, the U.S.A. and
Canada, under the cap-
taincy of Gordon skipper Bob
Davidson, look as good a com-
bination as could be picked.
Gordon fullback Graham
might have been handy with
his goalkicking. There was one
outsider —St. George fullback
Lenehan. A couple of “name”
players didn’t make it. There
are three Queenslanders, one
Victorian (ex N.S.W.) and the
rest from N.S.W. Only one of
the 1947-48 Wallabies, Nick
Shehadie, is in the side, though
Newcastle halfback Cyril
Burke, who’s still playing well,
must have just missed being
listed with him. However
strong the side, it’ll be tackling
some pretty stiff, opposition,
particularly in Britain.
• • • • 1
“Old Rep.”: The Fijian
Rugby Union team finished its
successful tour of N.Z.’s North
Island by walloping a strong
All Maori team 37-17 before
nearly 40.000 at Athletic Park.
Then began their invasion of
the South Island, full of a con-
fidence not dimmed by a
comfortable win over a
formidable West Coast side at
Greymouth, where they gave
another brilliant display of the
unorthodox football that had
marked their earlier matches in
the North. However, on the
world’s southernmost Rugby
park, at Invercargill, they got
their big surprise from a
Southland rep. team: the
Southlanders outplayed the
visitors and won 13-8 on a dry,
hard ground such as should
have suited the men from the
Islands.
* * »
In. a sodden last round of
Sydney’s Rugby League, Wests
thrashed Canterbury 39-5, and
so earn a run in the semis. In
the S.C.G. match-of-the-day
minor-premiers St. George and
old rivals Souths turned on
a promise -of-what’s-to-come
brand of football, St. George
winning 21-13. Elsewhere
Newtown beat Balmain 13-12;
Norths rough-handled Parra-
matta 37-9; Manly tossed
Easts 13-6, to gain the all-
important second place in the
comp. Next week it’s Souths
opposed to Wests; the week
after St. George versus Manly.
• • • •
“Dentonio”: I’ll always
remember Ted Courtney
(“Personal,” B. 31/7/’57) for a
try I saw him score at Pratten
Park (Sydney). “Tedda”
received the ball about 30yds.
from the opposing line. He
broke through the fullback’s
tackle, and had an open field
in front of him ; but the full-
back, with a despairing grab,
tore-off his pants. Did
“Tedda’s” modesty cause him
to stop and let his comrades
cover his nakedness until a new
pair of pants could be brought?
No fear! He didn’t falter in his


NOTHING EQUALS
0 Warmray's Amazing Efficiency ■[
TRIPLE-PURPOSE, SLOW-COMBUSTION,
AIR-CONDITIONING HOME HEATER
Model No. 3
Super De Luxe
■X Large Capacity
Over 8,000
cu. ft.
Special large
firebox for long
burning without
attention.
Extra large
hotplate for
cooking.
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray"
ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING
Model No. 2A
4r Heats over 6,000
cu. ft.
Modern artistio
cream porcelain
enamel on solid cast
Iron.
■fc No dirty fireplaces
to clean.
X Full view of blazing
fire through open
or closed front.
X Lights In seconds
warms entire room
in minutes.
X No smoke or dust to
soil furnishings.
★ Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
Your appreciation^™ «y~
C|U f,l! h
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
'TEE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL—REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
mm
L
m m m m m'm
WARMRAY
HEATING TUBES
The secret of Warmray’s Amazing Efficiency is
the Patented Heating Tubes (illustrated above),
which are built into the firebox. The air in the
room passes through these tubes continuously,
thus maintaining an even warmth in every part
of the room.
JL. BURNS ALL SOLID FUELS
WOOD IS CLEANEST,
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers ana
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
BUY NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors,
Chaliis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: “Warmray.” BL 2217.
If unobtainable locally, phone, write or call
for illustrated Brochure and name of nearest
agents.
stride, even though there were
women sitting along the fence
only a few yards away. Amid
cheers and ribaldry, “Tedda”
touched-down in the score-
board corner.
* * *
What the last home-and-
home round of the V.F.L.
mainly had to decide was
whether Essendon would hold
its place in the final four or
whether, instead, Collingwood
would be playing-off this Satur-
day. In the upshot the
Bombers not only stayed in
but shot up to second place, to
have the double-chance with
Melbourne. For Essendon
roundly smote Carlton 17.21-
9.8, while St. Kilda squarely
thumped Collingwood 14.12-
7.14. In the other two games
affecting final-four positions,
Melbourne walloped Richmond
18.12-10.11, while Footscray
came from a long way back for
a thrilling two-point win over
Hawthorn, 8.11-7.15. It’s
Hawthorn and Carlton to
play-off this Saturday.
“Corio”: Newest V.F.L.
central umpire lan Huntington
is the 'Varsity cricketer who
made such a promising debut in
inter-State games last season.
Skipper of the University side
and an attractive left-hand bat,
Huntington is regarded as
having a bright future in the
summer game.
“R.A.C.”: I’m with you,
“Veryl” (B. 31/7/’57) and
“K.R.” (B. 14/8/’57).. It is time
the Victorian League clamped
down on the Victorian scribes
who persistently decry inter-
state matches. Their narrow
views caused such a poor
attendance at the last S.A.-Vic.,
clash in Melbourne that the
S.A. League is rightly consider-
ing measures to have the next
Carnival Series played out of
Victoria. If the game is to con-
tinue as the national code,
Victoria must learn to put State
before club interests and set the
standard-for the weaker and
lesser populated States. The
Victorian players, invariably
fine ambassadors for their
State, do not share the critics’
views. For them it is a great
honor to pull on the guernsey
with the famous white V.
* * *
Sporting dragnet: Murray Hal-
berg, of N.Z., won the Australian
10,000-metres cross-country race (in
31min. 52.85ec.), with Dave Power,
of N.S.W., second. Power will hold
the title —third time he’s held it.
England won the fifth cricket Test,
defeating the West Indies by the
overwhelming margin of an innings
and 237 runs. It won the series
3-0, with two Tests drawn... .Surrey
won the English county cricket-
championship for the sixth succes-
sive year, first time this has ever
been d0ne....1n a two-day inter-
national athletic meeting at White
City, London, Russia narrowly
defeated Britain in both men’s and
women’s matches —most of the
events were evenly contested, and
provided thrilling spectacle... .In
Adelaide- on Aug. 20, in the
SHOCK REJECTS
DICK TOOTH, whose omis-
sion left them gasping. Aus-
tralian Test captain this season,
he has proved capable in full-
back and five-eighth positions.
KEITH CROSS, breakaway;
for the past few years one of
Australia’s best.
National code, S.A. thrashed the
V.F.A. 20.17-8.8.. ..A Danish
Olympic gold-medallist, Greta
Andersen, won the 1957 cross-
Channel swim, finishing two miles
ahead of Englishman Kenneth
Wray, the only other swimmer to
finish... .The Queensland Queen’s
Prize shoot was won by Leo Dove,
of Murwillumbah (N.S.W.), with
Victorian Percy Pavey second....ln
Adelaide, W.A., again dominating
proceedings, retained the Australian
women’s hockey premiership.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copies of the following;
7 l.e Last of the Tasmanians,
Discovery and Settlement of Port
Phillip (Melbourne, 1856), William
Buckley (Melb., 1856), The Bush-
rangers (Melb., 1856) —all by James
Bonwick; Bible Stories for Young
Australians; Botany for Young
A ustralians. —6574.
To buy copies of the following:
“Transactions and Proceedings of
the New Zealand Institute” (Vols.
2,3, 5,6, 10, 12); "Oceania” (Vol.
3—No. 2; Vol. 7—No. 1; Vol. 11;
VoL 12 —No. 4; Vol. 14—-Nos. 2,
3; Vol. 16—Nos. 3,4; Vol. 17-
Nos. 1,3, 4; Vol. 18—Nos. 1,2, 4;
Vol. 20—Nos. 1-3; Vol. 22—No. 4;
Vol. 23—No. 1; Vol. 24—No. 2;
Vol. 25—Nos. 3,4): Official Year Book
of the Commonwealth of Australia
(Nos. 1,4, 7,8, 16); Official Year
Book of N.S.W. (1905/6, 1906/7,
1925); "Poetry,” the quarterly of
Australian and New Zealand verse
(Nos. 1-3, 5-7, 23, 24); “The Journal
of the Polynesian Society” (Vol. 37
—Nos. 1-4; Vol. 39 —No. 3; Vol.
40—Nos. 2-4; Vol. 41; Vol. 42
No. 3; Vol. 44—No. 3; Vol. 52-
No. 4; Vol. 53—Nos. 1,2, 4; Vol.
55—Nos. 2,3; Vol. 56—Nos. 1,3,
4; Vol. 57—No. 1 ; Vol. 60—No.
i ; Vol. 62—Nos. 3, 4).—6575.
To buy Professor Fowler’s Science
of Life and Dr. Cowan’s Science of
a New Life. —6570.
To buy the following: the plays,
“A Pair of Lunatics” and “The
Happy Man”; the recitations,
"Betty and 1 Are Out,” “Betty and
1 Are In” and “The Ballyhooley
Cricket Match.” —6571.
To buy the following by Edward
Dyson: Ben no; Benno and Some of
the Push; and Fact’ry ’Ands. —6572.
To buy Vol. 1 No. 13 and Vol. 2
No. 3 of the Army magazine "Salt.”
—6573.
Does Anybody Know?
Where in Sydney was the old
Coffee Palace, and anything of
special interest about it?
Information Sought
Any information on a breed of
sheep or type of wool known as
"Zenith” ?
(From Grazcos.) This breed of
sheep originated in Victoria, and
has been recognised as a breed since
1947. It is a robust style of sheep,
with a deep plain and fairly broad
back. Although it has a good cover-
ing of wool on the poll, the face is
clean. The breed does not carry
horns on rams. The wool is of
60 s, 64’s quality.
* * * *
What was Maxie Rosenbloom’s
record before coming to Australia,
ostensibly to fight Ambrose Palmer,
and why did he meet American
(j eorge Simpscm instead of Palmer ?
How many contests did Rosenbloom
have in Australia ? What is George
Simpson’s record ?
“Slapsy” Maxie Rosenbloom
(born in New York City on Septem-
ber 6, 1904) was a leading boxer
from the time he began, late in
1923. He won 25 contests before
drawing with Joe Silvani at the end
of 1924. He later lost to Jimmy
Slattery in 1925 and 1926, and to
Jack Delaney in 1926. Although he
again lost to Slattery when their
contest was advertised as a world
light-heavyweight title fight in
1927, the United States National
Boxing Association recognised
Rosenbloom as world light-heavy-
weight champion when he out-
pointed Slattery over 15 rounds late
m 1932. Charlie Massera won the
world-title from Rosenbloom on a
15-rounds points decision in 1933,
after which Rosenbloom came to
Australia, in 1936. There seems to
be no recorded explanation of
Rosenbloom’s failure to meet
Ambrose Palmer; but he K.O.'d
George Simpson (3 rounds), out-
pointed Leo “Deacon” Kelly (15
rounds) aiid drew with Kelly (15
rounds) in his three Australian
contests. Have no record of
Simpson's fights, as he was only a
moderate boxer in the U.S.
* * * *
Is it safe to use plaster-of-Paris in
the coating of Easier-eggs to
“Sorry to interrupt in the middle of your electronic symphony composition, dear .”
prevent the chocolate from melting
on the fingers ?
On no account use plaster-of-
Paris: it is generally regarded as
being a poison and in any Case
would be most objectionable. If a
proper coating-chocolate is used
without any addition of water or
sugar, it should set hard enough to
be handled ; this is the recommended
practice in confectionery. A
stiffener used commercially is a
small addition of the while paraffin-
wax used for topping jams and
pickles. If Using this, experiment
for yourself to find the right
amount. Generally, though, plain
chocolate is best; it is not required
to last long, and you can store
it in your refrigerator until
wanted.
* * * «
What were the main explorations
in Australia of the Gregory
brothers ?
in 1846 the three brothers, A. X C.,
F T. and H. C. Gregory,
explored a large area of country
u.-e. of Perth, and two years later
covered the country between the .
Gascoyne and the Murchison Rivers.
In 1857 and 1858 F. T. Gregory
further explored the Murchison
neighborhood, and in 1861, setting
out from Nickol Bay (W.A.) and in
a march, lasting nearly six months,
discovered a great tract of land
suitable for farming. A. C. Gregory,
the best-known of the three, later
knighted, made two impoitant
journeys in northern Australia in
search of traces of Leichhardt. In
late 1855, with his brother H.C.
as second-in-command, he led an
expedition south-west from the
Victoria River (N.T.) until stopped
by the desert. Returning to
Victoria, he set off again in June,
1856, heading eastward, finally
rcaching Port Curtis (Q.), 5000
miles away, in December that year.
In March, 1858, starting out from
west of Hervey Bay (Q.), Gregory
crossed the main range, and went
down the Barcoo a.nd Thomson,
reaching Adelaide in July. On this
trip, while on the upper part of the
Barcoo, he found a tree in which
was cut the letter L, the only trace
of Leichhardt he was able to find..
* * * *
What is quicksand ?
This answer also appeared in B.
28/10/’53, and is Everyman’s
Encyclopaedia's definition —Quick-
sand is a bed or mass of loose,
moving sand saturated with water to
such an extent that it readily yields
to pressure, and cannot support the
weight of animals or humans. It is
usually very fine, mixed with clay
or calcium-carbonate. Sometimes
fine mud with a thin layer of sand
' s ca Eed quicksand. Small tracts
occur; fairly often at river-mouths
(tor instance > in th e rivers of lee-
land), or along the coast, differing
a glance very little in appearance
Lorn the shoie. Old writers some-
tn?e? B ave ihe name quicksand to
drifting sa nds carried by the wind
over neighboring land.
Brief Answers
H.E.M.; Tomatoes are self-
pollinating, and so do not have to
bf pollinated by bees or by any
other method when grown in glass-
h FX . m See .. Rfd
nouses.... 1.1 .. U) Ked
L age ,r ,or J^ a y 7^'"* e
Geolfrey Dutton, Rostievoi Road,
Mount Lofty, S.A H.F.: Angus
and Robertson (89 Castlereagir
Street, Sydney) suggest the follow-
ing: Popular Mechanics (Do It
Yourself Booklet No. 20) —
Concrete Construction Around the
Home (price, 2s. 9d.; post 6d.);
Popular Mechanics Concrete
Handbook (price. Bs. 9d.; post 9d).
. ...H.L.G.: Since they are men-
tioned, suggest you write E. S.
Wolfenden (Consulting Actuary),
117 Pitt Street, Sydney; it would be
impossible for us to say
A.McG.: (1) That depends a
great deal on the subject and type
of MSS., though it is advisable to
try here first. (2) Yes, they will
arrange for that. (3) No. never. (4)
As long as they are firmly fastened,
that shouldn’t matter. (5) Buy a
Writers and Artists’ Year Book,
1957. . ... 1.R.: James Aaate died on
June 6, 1947... .P.D.0.: Black
Channel is in N.S.W F.S.M- :


*
REGISTRATION FOR
NATIONAL SERVICE
Alf Male BRITISH SUBJECTS and NEW AUSTRALIANS
OF THE CLASSES DESCRIBED BELOW WHO ARE ORDINARILY
RESIDENT IN AUSTRALIA
MUST REGISTER
Between 23rd August, 1957 and 6th September, 1957
unless exempt from liability to do so.
BRITISH SUBJECTS
who have attained or will attain the age of 18 years
between Ist July, 1957 and 31st December, 1957,
inclusive.
NEW AUSTRALIANS
(NOT BEING BRITISH SUBJECTS)
AND
NATURALIZED BRITISH SUBJECTS NOT ALREADY REGISTERED
who attained the age of 18 years between Ist July,
1956 and 31st December, 1956 (inclusive), and were in
Australia on 23rd August, 1956.
A person who intends to make his home in Australia is regarded as
ordinarily resident in Australia as from the time of his arrival. A person
who is absent from Australia during the period within which he it
required to register, must register within 14 days after his return.
EXEMPTIONS FROM REGISTRATION:
The ONLY exemptions from liability to register are:—
(a) Persons on full-time duty with the Permanent Defence Forces,
(b) Diplomatic personnel specified in Section 18 of the National Service
Act,
(c) Aboriginal natives of Australia including half-castes, and persons of
aboriginal extraction living as aborigines.
HOW TO REGISTER:
Registration Forms (Forms N.S.T) are available at District Employment
Offices and Money Order Post Offices. Addresses of the former offices
are in telephone directories. Detailed instructions on how to register are
in the Registration Form and the Sheet (N.S.IA) attached to it.
FAILURE TO REGISTER:
A person required to register who fails to do so is liable to a minimum
penalty of £lO.
(1) Arthritis and Rheumatism
Foundation, 23 W. 45th Street, New
York 36, N.Y. (2) National
Foundation for Infantile Paralysis,
Inc., 120 Broadway, New York 5,
N.Y. (3) Seeing Eye, Inc., Morris-
town, New Jersey L.T.: The
American Virgin Islands, about 40
miles east of Puerto Rico, in the
Lesser Antilles, are a small group
of approximately 50 islands, three
of which are inhabited —St. Thomas
(area, 32 square miles), St. John
(20) and St. Croix (80). To the
north of them is the Atlantic, to the
south, the Caribbean. By the
Treaty of Utrecht in 1713 the
present American Virgin Islands
were awarded to Denmark, which
sold them to the U.S. in 1917. The
Organic Act of '1936 provided a
civil government for the Islands;
universal suffrage was granted in
1938.... J. 8.: Write the Taxpayers’
Association of N.S.W. (Inc.), 11c
Casllereagh Street, Sydney....
E.R.S.: Write Angus and Robert-
son Pty., Ltd., 89 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney W.T.: Highly
improbable D.F.: Britain's
defence policy is reviewed in the
Annual Statement on Defence pre-
sented each spring to Parliament by
the Minister of Defence immediately
before the detailed Estimates of the
Service Departments. The statement
outlines the programmes of the
three Services for the ensuing year,
and summarises the proposed defence
budget.,. .T.R.8.: Sound-broad-
casting services in the U.K. are
undertaken solely by the 8.8. C.,
which was created as a public cor-
poration by royal charter in 1927.
The British Broadcasting Corpora-
tion was also solely responsible for
the television transmission services
until Sept., 1955, when an alterna-
tive television service, controlled by
the Independent Television Authority
(1.T.A.), first came into operation.
The Television Act 1954 set up the
1.T.A.; it consists of a chairman, a
deputy-chairman and eight ordinary
members (three of whonl have
special responsibility for Scotland,
Northern Ireland and Wales and
Monmouthshire respectively). The
authority is appointed by the Post-
master-General, and is charged with
the duty of providing television
services additional to those provided
by the 8.8. C. for a period of 10
years until July 30, 1964. The
8.8. C. derives its legal powers to
maintain broadcasting stations from
its licence and agreement with the
Postmaster-General. The agreement
contains financial clauses and also
certain general provisions con-
cerning the manner in which the
broadcasting services should be
operated S.L.R.: The U.K.
Football Association was founded
in 1863; the Football League in
1888.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributior , voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
L.T.S.: Almost jingle-jangled its
way in... .R.J.R.: Liked the
rhyming of “beer-gut” with “out-
put”... .J.0’8.: Come back to
earth and rewrite it K.Y.: Get
on to a subject you know at least
something about F.F.: There’s
a song in you, but you’re still off-
pitch. .. .L.A.: Whew!... .S.T.N.:
Airliner yarn Crash-landed into the
w.p.b T.A.: So you’ve dis-
covered “Glorious Australia,” too.
>.. .R. 8.: It will take more than
that frothy sonnet to convince us
that every cloud has a silver lining.
P.Q.: Not as funny as you
seem to think... .S.H.D.: Covering-
letter well put together
K.McG.: Not impressed by your
“Myopic Moron"... .Jim : Too
slim, Jim....R.Y.: If that comes
oi reading Hemingway, suggest you
start reading Hazlitt W.T.W.:
No, we would not be interested in
a novel “on the same lines”
R.A.W.: “When, oh, when, will
Fate’s cruel hand run its fingers
through the drifting sands of Time?”
Hard ta say ofi-hand G. 8.8.:
Despaired of trying to work into an
ecstasy over the charm of “Lindy
Lou”... .N.F.S.: Just another race-
course plunge that didn’t come off.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
JAPAN AND CHINA
/COMMENTING on the
“mass of denunciation and
warning” with which Com-
munist China seems to have
answered Japanese trade over-
tures, “New York Times”
suggests that the real target of
the Chinese propaganda is not
Japan but the U.S.
“Japan,” the paper com-
ments, “is assailed as a
‘lackey’ in an obvious effort
to sting Japanese pride and
possibly to exploit it against
the United States. That the
step-up in the attacks has coin-
cided in time with the further
reduction of American military
forces in Japan may be more
than mere coincidence, since
the Communists must have felt
that any good effects of such
American action must be offset
in any way possible.
“Mao Tse-tung has been direct
and outspoken in his demand
that Japan join with India and
Red China to ‘drive the United
States out of Asia.’ Chou
En-lai, somewhat more subtle,
has been blunt enough in tell-
ing the Japanese that they can-
not expect a trade treaty with
Red China until they achieve
‘perfect independence’ from the
United States.”
Also commenting on the
Chinese campaign, London
“Economist” holds that it is
directed at influencing Japanese
public opinion “in favor of
granting diplomatic recognition
1o the Peking Government and
against the American-Japanese
Security Pact”:
“The political warfare
against the Kishi Government
is being carried on by a
campaign of hospitality to
unofficial Japanese delegations
visiting China on a scale of
prodigality which seems to
have broken all previous
records in this kind of
‘incentive.’ The visitors are not
only entertained with banquets
and meetings in their honor and
taken on conducted tours to
see the achievements of the
new China but are flattered by
being received by the highest
political personalities.
“A delegation of Japanese
ex-Servicemen led by the
formerly prominent Lieut.-
General Saburo Endo was wel-
comed by the Prime Minister,
Chou En-lai, and by Marshal
Peng Teh-huai, who com-
manded the Chinese People’s
Volunteers in Korea. A swim-
ming team from Waseda Uni-
versity was also received by the
Chinese Prime Minister, and
a Japanese agrotechnical
delegation has been touring
China to the number of 50
persons. Meanwhile in Japan
an Asian Solidarity Com-
mittee has been set up as a
counterpart to a similar
organisation in China, and the
Japan-China Cultural Exchange
Association is arranging for
Japanese participation in an
Asian film-festival to be held
iu China shortly.
“All these contacts are
exploited for the purposes of a
well - directed anti - American
propaganda, which exploits
three substantial Japanese
grievances against the United
States: the continued
—New York “Herald Tribune”
INFLATION—U.S. VIEW
American occupation of
Okinawa; the restrictions on
Japanese exports to China ; and
the fear that Japan may be
dragged into a war in which
Japanese interests are not
involved.
‘The Kishi Government can
at present command a Parlia-
mentary majority for the
foreign policy it is pursuing,
but it would be unwise to
ignore the strength of neutralist
sentiment now being manifested
in Japan.”
Commonwealth
Finance
In an editorial comment on
the British Government’s White
Paper on the U.K.’s role in
Commonwealth development,
London “Financial Times”
selects as the key statement:
“The temptation to accept
liabilities which would overtax
its resources and strain its
financial structure is dangerous
not only to the United King-
dom but to the Commonwealth
as a whole.”
The three main purposes of
the White Paper, the “Financial
Times” notes, are “to set out
the contribution that Britain is
making to Commonwealth
development, to show why it
cannot be more than it is at
the moment and to explain the
policy which determines the
allocation of loans and grants
to different parts of the
Commonwealth.
“Over the period 1953-56 the
U.K.’s current rate of invest-
ment in the Commonwealth
has been running at the rate
of about £2OO million a year,
in addition to £5O million in
the rest of the world. This
compares with a current
balance-of-payments surplus
averaging only about £l4O
million over the same period.
“The U.K.’s contribution
may be modest in relation to
Commonwealth requirements,
but it is large in relation to
Britain’s own resources. It is
difficult to quairel with the
Government’s view that this is
the maximum attainable m
Britain’s present slate and that
the target must be to maintain
rather than increase it.
“Failing any sharp rise in
savings, further Commonwealth
investment could only be
achieved at the expense of re-
equipment at home. The
underlying assumption of the
White Paper's policy is that
investment at home must come
first and in present circum-
stances the assumption is justi-
fied.”
After noting that the
emphasis is on private invest-
ment —with the consequent
political risk that the internal
economic policies of new
Dominions, such as India, will
attract less private capital than,
say, Canada or Rhodesia —the
“Financial Times” adds that
the White Paper draws atten-
tion to the many ways, such
as technical and administrative
assistance, in which the
U.K.’s “services can be of
use to both colonial and in-
dependent territories, which do
not involve the disbursement of
large sums of money.
“But for big capital projects
Commonwealth countries must
to a large extent rely on their
own resources or on external
lenders, including the World
Bank or the U.S. investor. This
may be a hard doctrine, but
it is in the interest of this
country [Britain] and of over-
seas members that it should
be clearly stated.”
Disarmament
Commenting on President
Eisenhower’s “open skies” plan,
London “Spectator” rates it as
“excellent so far as its inten-
tions go”:
“In practice it is rather less
effective. Its purpose is said
4o be to prevent surprise attacks
by one nation on another
through aerial inspection, but
does anyone nowadays expect
war to break out to the old
accompaniment of troop con-
centrations along frontiers,
digging of fortifications and so
on? And can underground sites


WHY SUFFER FROM
RHEUMATISM
OR
ARTHRITIS?
THIS WILL INTEREST YOU
When Mr. R. A. Stratton was given an old Indian formula for
the relief of Rheumatic complaints some 30 years ago, he had no
idea that one day he would be sending the Powder around the
world to relieve sufferers. ' Naturally, as a strong, robust youth,
I thought little about it at the time,” said Mr. Stratton, ‘"but in
later years I became a chronic Arthritis sufferer myself, so 1 had
the formula made up by a chemist and took a course of the
Powder for some months, which effected a complete cure.
“I naturally sympathised with anyone else who had been
similarly afflicted, so 1 decided to have the Powders prepared
in commercial quantities so I could help the numerous sufferers
from Rheumatism and Arthritis, and I must confess the results
have been amazing.”
The Company started selling the
Powder some 3 years ago, and for
a its sales were limited to
this State, but, as a result of its
success, it was quickly acclaimed
a WORLD DISCOVERY and its
fame spread throughout Aus-
tralasia and Overseas until we now
have a world-wide clientele of
over 20,000 and we have obtained
an enviable reputation for our
ability to bring relief to all types
of RHEUMATIC COM I'EAINTS.
This result, we are proud to say,
has been achieved without the use
of harmful drugs or painful injec-
tions.
Amazing reports from all parts of
Australia are dailv being received
b.v our RHEUMATIC CO N-
SI'LTANT telling of the wonderful
results obtained by sufferers who
have long sought for a safe and
effective remedy for the relief of
their complaints, and many satis-
tied users have been pleased to
recommend the treatment to their
friends which speaks volumes for
the effectiveness of the Remedy.
The Treatment Advice and In-
struction Pamphlet which aecom-
pan? the Powder tells you in
simple, sincere and straightforward
language the correct methods to be
used in order to successfully over-
come a Rheumatic condition and
enables sufferers to obtain by post
the same help and assistance they
would receive from a personal in-
terview with our Consultant, and
we are proud to state that by
means of our PERSONALISED
SERVICE we have revolutionised
the treatment of RHEUMATISM
and its allied complaints through-
out Australia.
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC and
ARTHRITIS POWDER by a
unique combination of its drug
free ingredients can only do good
and cannot harm the system.
It does not affect the heart nor
will it interfere with any other
Ti-eatment. but seeks by natural
means to effectively remove the
cause of your Complaint.
Harmless to take, all that is
necessary is one teaspoonful of
Powder daily—nothing could be
simpler.
Thousands have been relieved
from suffering. WHY NOT YOU?
A ... 4 WEEKS’ SUPPLY CARTON, Instruction Pamphlet,
TREATMENT ADVICE and SPECIAL CONCESSION
RATE VOUCHER if your complaint needs further
treatment . . . costs only £1 POST FREE. Send to: —
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER Pty. Ltd.
9 BARRACK ST., PERTH, W.A.
—London “Time and Tide
INFLATION—U.K. VIEW
for factories, camouflaged
rocket-launching bases, and all
the apparatus of nuclear war
really be detected from the
air? If they could, would a
Power like Russia, whose
strategic strength depends to
some extent on its ability to
conceal such preparations, con-
sent to any inspection at all?
Even if the zones proposed in-
cluded the whole territory of
the U.S.S.R.—which they do
not —the essential sinews of
fyar would escape observation.”
As for Russia consenting to
any inspection, “New York
Times” comments that, while
the Soviets “have paid lip-
service to international inspec-
tion and control, they have
always balked when it came to
converting ‘agreements in
principle' into practical work-
ing compacts, and have fought
shy of any system of inspection
or control that would expose
them to the same limitations as
the Wesl.
“This policy is illustrated by
Premier Bulganin's stand on one
of the very first steps toward
disarmament, the suspension of
hydrogen-bomb tests. The West,
which has insisted that every
disarmament must be accom-
panied by the simultaneous
installation of an effective in-
spection system, now proposes
a short-term trial suspension of
such tests without this pre-
caution on two conditions.
One, designed to test Soviet
intentions, is that a monitoring
system be established during the
trial period to prevent cheat-
ing, failing which the West will
resume testing with the aim of
producing a ‘clean’ bomb
without lethal fallout. The
second condition is that produc-
tion of fissionable material for
nuclear weapons be stopped
after establishment of an
effective control system which
science now considered feasible.
“This latter condition,” the
“N.Y. Times” adds, “is essential
because a nuclear-test suspen-
sion is worthless unless all
nations agree to it. Sovereign
nations like France have no
intention of excluding them-
selves from the ‘atomic club’
unless the manufacture of
nuclear weapons stops as well.
“This surely looks like a
practical approach to the
problem. But how do the
Soviets react to it? They agree
to ‘study’ the establishment of
a monitoring system but reject
any practical work on it as a
‘waste of time.’ And Premier
Bulganin flatly rejects the
second condition and in effect
announces in advance the
‘failure’ of the present talks
unless the West agrees to an
immediate, unconditional and
seemingly indefinite suspen-
sion of the tests without linking
it to any other problems. If
that is the last Soviet word on
the matter, the suspension of
nuclear tests must be ruled out
by Soviet fiat.”
Malaya
Three comments on Malaya’s
arrival (on August 31) at
independence within the
British Commonwealth:
New York “Herald Tribune”:
“It [Malaya] will have a Con-
stitutional monarch, chosen by
the heads of the nine States and
two the
federation, with the title of
paramount ruler of Malaya.
But Tengku Sir Abdul Rahman,
the chosen King, will hold office
for a five-year-term.”
The same : “It is important
to the free world that Malaya
develop its own institutions and
its own internal strength against
the Communists who for years
ravaged its territory. Malaya is
not only an important source
of rubber and tin, but a finger
of land pointing to the rich
and populous chain of islands
that runs through Indonesia
toward Australia. The five-year
monarchy may seem unusual,
but it is not out of key with
the form of federalism that
has long prevailed in Malaya.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”:
“Malays, Chinese and Indians
have combined under Tengku
Abdul Rahman in the Alliance
Party, a sort of marriage of
convenience in order to hasten


Legal Notice
Pursuant to an Order of the Supreme
Court of Victoria made in the action
1935 No. 1531 in which THE PUBLIC
TRUSTEE is Plaintiff and JOHN
HENRY REMINGTON is Defendant the
persons claiming to be next of kin (as
brothers or sisters of JAMES CUM-
MING HILL hereinafter mentioned or
as children of brothers or sisters of the
said JAMES GUMMING HILL) to
MARION GUMMING DOUGLAS late of
380 William Street West Melbourne in
the State of Victoria boarding house
keeper deceased (the daughter of the
said JAMES CUMMING HILL and
MARY ANN HILL formerly PEART
who were married at Launceston Tas-
mania on 14th September 1864) living
at the time of the death of the said
MARION CUMMING DOUGLAS on 30th
June 1050 or claiming to be the legal
personal representatives of such of the
said next of kin as are now dead are
by their solicitors on or before the 7tb
day of October 1957 to come in and
prove their claims at the office of the
Master of the Supreme Court Law’ Courts
Melbourne or in default thereof they will
be peremptorily excluded from the
benefit of the said Order The 14th day of
October 1957 at 11 o’clock in the fore-
noon at the said office is appointed for
adjudicating upon the claims. DATED
the 15th day of August, 1957.—ER1C
S. VANCE, Master of the Supreme
Court.
MESSRS. DESMOND FITZGERALD
CAREY A MORAN, of 396 Flinders
Lane, Melbourne, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
independence. This co-opera-
tion may or may not endure
when Malaya is looking after
her own affairs. Racial partner-
ship elsewhere in the world is
a worthy ideal rather than an
accomplished fact. It is quite
possible that it will work in
Malaya, given tact on the part
of the Malays and restraint
among the Chinese.
“The new Constitution is
heavily weighted in favor of the
Malays ; they are guaranteed a
reasonable number of positions
in the public service ; their
privileges in land occupation
and use are assured ; and their
language is the official one. As
the Malays need protection
against the more energetic and
enterprising Chinese, the Con-
stitutional safeguards may be
justified. The question is
whether the Chinese will be
content to let the Malays
administer the country while
they dominate its commercial
life.”
* * *
London ‘‘Daily Mail”:
“Malaya’s expansion by British
enterprise is a fascinating
story, and an outstanding
example of what can be
accomplished by vision and
initiative. It began when Raffles
bought Singapore from the
Sultan of Johore in 1819. The
place was an uninhabited
swamp, but soon it became one
of the greatest ports in the
world.
“In time the Malay States,
ruled by nine Sultans, came
under British protection and
felt the benefit of British
administration. Modern
methods applied to tinmining
made Malaya the foremost
producer. Seedlings of the
rubber plant sent out from Kew
Gardens in 1877 made it the
biggest rubber-grower.
“There was no restriction on
investment. The British had
the biggest stake, but the
French, Americans, Danes,
Swedes, Swiss, Japanese and
Chinese owned mines and
estates. Wealth flowed into the
country, but not a penny of
its revenue went to the
British Exchequer. In the
world wars, however, Malaya
contributed generously.
“Since the war its tin and
rubber have been the Common-
wealth's largest dollar-earners.
Without these sales to America
the sterling area would have
been in a very bad way.
“It is a wonderful story of
riches, friendship— and reward.
All built up by the risk-money
of the shareholder who today
is branded as a no-good
parasite.”
Cyprus
With the still unsolved
Cyprus issue due for debate in
the U.N. Assembly next month,
and the British Government
anxious “to avert this exposure
to attack from embarrassed
friends and gleeful foes”
(London “Daily Telegraph”),
the question of partition of the
island is in the air again,
though it seems to offer little
more hope of solution than
other proffered remedies.
In Cyprus, the “D.T.”
comments, “the British Govern-
ment confronts a difficulty
partly of its own fostering:
the resolute opposition of
Turkey to any solution con-
—London “Daily Minor ”
“I’M STILL FULL-UP FROM THE SUEZ BANQUET BUT
I SUPPOSE WE OUGHT TO START.”
ceivably acceptable to Greece.
Turkish concern about the
future sovereignty of Cyprus is
vital and genuine ; it is not
an invention of the British
Government, but at an earlier
stage in the dispute the Govern-
ment found it useful to em-
phasise this concern as a cor-
rective to Greek demands. More
effective for this purpose—
embarrassingly effective has
been the British Government’s
warning that partition of the
island might have to be con-
templated as a last resort.
“Turkey pounced on this
suggestion, and has even put
forward semi-officially a claim
to half the island, though
Turkish Cypriots number only
about one-fifth of its popula-
tion. The result was a shock
of alarm in Athens. After so
long claiming that Turkish
protests and pretensions need
not be taken seriously, the
Greek Government now
believes that Britain is definitely
thinking of partition. This
could mean an eventual Greco-
Turkish war, which would
split the Nato defence-structure
at the point where it joins with
that of the Baghdad Pact.”
Partition of the island, in the
editorial view of the “Christian
Science Monitor,” i& a
“Solomonic” solution “only in
that it proposes dividing up
the disputed baby. The
planners have no hope that any
of the contending States will
show the self-sacrifice necessary
to establish parenthood.
“Jn an age of partitioning—•
Korea, Viet Nam, Germany,
Palestine, Ireland, the Indian
subcontinent —it is understand-
able that responsible statesmen
would not overlook this divide-
and-postpone device, but will
partition really solve these
problems?
“In Cyprus any practical
partition on a population
basis would probably mean the
uprooting of thousands of
people from traditional land-
holdings. Almost certainly this
would lead to increased inter-
racial strife, raids into the old
homelands, and more intense
enmity between the mother
countries involved.-
“In Cyprus, peoples of dis-
parate culture and national
origin have built up emotional
disputes almost to the point of
no return. It may be begging
the question to say that these
collisions of interest, like the
South African apartheid parti-
tion, must be finally solved in
the minds and hearts of in-
dividuals on both sides. But
that is none the less the ultimate
answer.
“Partition should be looked
at as a last resort, to be used
only after all other remedies
have been exhausted. It is not
a solution, but a postponement
in history's long march from
tribe to feudal domain to king-
dom to federation —the gradual
accommodation of people of
one color, background, and
allegiance to those of another.”
Bristol Britannias
The conflict between a “large
and urgent” offer by American
Trans World Airlines for 30
of the first Bristol Britannias
to be put on sale, and the
British Overseas Airways
Corporation's long - standing
order for 18 of the aircraft, has
produced complications which,
“Manchester Guardian” sug-
gests, would be most simply
solved by 8.0.A.C. surrender-
ing some of the Britannias
which are shortly to be
delivered to it so that they can
be transferred to T.W.A.
Since “the American airline
wants these Britannias pri-
marily for its domestic routes in
the United States,” it “would
no doubt agree not to use them
on its transatlantic services in
competition with 8.0.A.C. On
the other hand, 8.0.A.C.’s own
plans would suffer a grievous
setback if it had to forgo these
long-awaited British aircraft,
and make do with such piston-
engined airliners as it could buy
quickly in the United States.
“The balance of commercial
advantage is not easy to assess.
The T.W.A. order for
Britannias might be worth,


THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
1
and the Bank
The Banking needs of families are varied, but this
Bank, with its large network of branches and
agencies, provides modern facilities to satisfy all
needs. Its many services and friendly advice aret
available to all members of your family.
The C.B.C. Savings Bank Limited is equipped to
handle savings accounts with the minimum delay at
all branches and agencies of the Bank in New South
Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
Western Australia and
Australian Capital Territory.
Deposits in C.B.C. Savings
Bank Limited are guaranteed
by the parent company.
The Bank’s officers will be
glad to tell you how its services
can help you.
52
«a
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
including spare-parts for servic-
ing, about £54 million.
8.0.A.C. might have to spend
in the region of £lB million on
American aircraft to make up
for the postponement of its
new Britannia fleet, but there
would be a net gain in dollars
of the order of £26 million.
Jhat is a substantial sum.
“Against it, however, must be
set the lost earning capacity of
the Britannias, which is also
likely to be substantial. Left
to itself, 8.0.A.C. would prob-
ably not agree to surrender its
Britannias. It is relying on
them to capture passenger
traffic on the highly competi-
tive transatlantic routes, and —
perhaps of even more import-
ance —to hold the fort in 1959
if the Americans can bring
some pure jet-airliners into
service before we can.
“But 8.0.A.C. is a State
corporation, and if the Govern-
ment considered that the
immediate gain in dollars was
more important than putting
these new Britannias into ser-
vice with a British airline it
could direct that they must go
to the United States.”
Various Voices
Prime Minister Macmillan :
“The strength of the Common-
wealth lies in its ability to
change. It is not breaking up,
it is growing up ; and growing
up to its full stature. Two wars
and all that has followed from
them have no doubt made these
developments more rapid than
they would otherwise have
been; sometimes perhaps
dangerously rapid. There used
to be an old saying, ‘A year
for corn, 20 years for trees,
a century for people.’ Well,
we have tried to do in decades
what in past days was done
in centuries. Of course, there
will be difficulties and mistakes.
These are the growing-pains of
freedom. Of course, some of
the territories will want to run
before they can walk. This is
an age of speed, and political
ambitions have speeded up like
everything else.”
* * *
Sir Winston Church ill;
“Justice cannot be a hit-or-
miss system. We cannot be
content with an arrangement
where our new system of inter-
national laws applies only to
those who are willing to keep
them. The mere creation of
international organisations does
not relieve us of our individual
responsibility at least not
until the international systems
are truly reliable and effective.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Labor in Queensland
You can blame Evatt, Com-
munism, religious differences or
anything you like, but want of
a policy and too great a
majority killed Labor in
Queensland.
Labor hasn’t had a con-
structive policy for years. Back
in the bad old days, a fixed
minimum wage and better
working conditions were solid
planks in Labor’s platform. So
was “a fair day’s work for a
fair day’s pay.” Those planks
have developed dry-rot over
the years. In a country with
the best working conditions in
the world and a standard of
living miles ahead of most other
countries, these ideals are as
dead as the dodo.
And there’s been nothing put
up to replace these outdated
planks. In the recent Queens-
land elections, when politicians
were fighting for dear life and
a cushy job with all the perks
in the world attached to it, such
ancient and inaccurate history
as Moore and the depression
were flogged along the path to
the ballot-box. I asked one
candidate if he really thought
Moore caused the depression.
His answer: “No, but it’s
always good for a few votes.”
Such an attitude stems from
only one thing— want of a
policy.
Thanks to conveniently
arranged boundaries and the
help of votes from the dear
departed, Labor has ruled for
years in Queensland with an
unassailable majority. If it
had occupied the Treasury
benches with a slight majority,
it would have developed a
constructive policy and an
immunity to pressure from
power-drunk and disruptive
unions. Factions would ' have
been suppressed instead of
growing like a cancer, and the
party may still have been in
power.
The same remarks go for
the present Federal Govern-
ment. With little or no opposi-
tion, it is starting to drift and
take the line of least resistance.
Ivor Jennings wasn’t far out
when he wrote: “The strength
of the Government of the day
can best be judged by the
strength and virility of the
Opposition.” Gair had no
opposition. Neither has
Menzies.
What Labor wants most of
all is a new approach to
politics. Firstly, it needs a
sense of responsibility to the
taxpayer —because they handle
the money is no reason why
politicians. should not do so
wisely. An accountant in big
industry can’t spend the profits
as he wishes.
Second, the old idea of
Labor for the working-man
and to hell with the capitalist
should be thrown overboard.
What is a working-man? The
chap who swings the banjo
on the road, the scientist in the
laboratory or the busy G.P.
in a country town? As far as
work goes, the bloke with the
banjo would have the most
leisure.
Third, Labor wants to wake-
up to the fact that industry
can’t be kicked around for
ever. All this talk of capitalism
is a lot of piffle. The average
working-man, the chap Labor
woos at the elections, is the
biggest shareholder in industry
today. Without a healthy big
industry half the country would
be unemployed.
The best thing that came out
of the Queensland elections is
the fact that many candidates
were returned because they have
done a good job and not
because they were Q.L.P. or
A.L.P. That is how it' should
be. What consolation is it to
know that the local member is
a member of this party or that
if he is the biggest no-hoper in
the State? When people use
their franchise as it was
intended, vote for the candidate
with the most ability, and forget
about party politics, then we
may see strong Governments
faced with strong Oppositions.
-G. <Q.).
Children on Road's
Westralia’s system of regular
safety-first lectures by a trained
staff of police-officers in all
schools in the State appears to
be paying dividends.
It is recognised that, in the
accident-rate grouping, children
of six to 16 years have the
lowest rate of fatalities. Lec-
tures began in schools in 1945,
and of 43,000 schoolchildren 13
were killed that year. In 1956,
with 93,000 children, road
fatalities in this group were 11.
In contrast, the highest
accident age-group is 18-25
years. As children who have
had safety-first instilled into
them since they were six in
1945 are now coming into this
group, safety-first experts are
watching with interest to see if
there is also a noticeable drop
in casualty figures.—P, E B
(W.A.).
Air-India
In “Australian Success-story”
(B. 3/ 7 / ’57) it was stated that
there-are two all-British Com-
monwealth airlines to the
United Kingdom, one via
Canada and one via U.S.A.
Although we are not an all-
British airline in the sense that
we are an Indian airline, we
are a British Commonwealth
airline and India is a member
of the British Commonwealth.
We should stress the fact
that Air-India International is
one of the leading airlines
within the British Common-
wealth. Air-India Inter-
national (Sydney).
Savings-bank Deposits
The total of depositors’
balances in Australian savings-
banks increased by 7.6 per
cent, to £1,227,410,000 last year.
Had it not been for the activity
of the new savings-banks con-
ducted by some of the private
trading-banks there is little
doubt that a very much
smaller increase would have
been recorded. The interest-
rate which the banks are per-
mitted to offer is by no means
“Maybe I should have stayed in the Air Force , Cremley — I
feel conspicuous in the Army.”


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Sul scription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS ...
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £B/18/6 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.t Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
tempting, and the policy of
laissez-faire adopted in the past
by the Government savings-
banks could not have achieved
such a result.
Those banks have un-
doubtedly received a much-
needed shake-up, and it is most
noticeable that increased effi-
ciency and better service to
their customers have resulted
from the competition.
For the year ended June 30,
1956, the increase in the total
figures of the State Savings
Bank of Victoria was nearly
£900,000 less than the amount
of interest credited to
depositors' accounts in that
year. As the rate of interest
is something less than 3 per
cent., the fact that a total
increase this.year in the deposits
of all the savings-banks is 7.6
per cent, speaks for itself, and
must be mainly attributed to
the advent of the private
savings-banks’ competition. It
proves that the money is there
to be got if sufficiently active
steps are taken to gather it in.
It is the old story of competi-
tion. once again, and it holds
good for all businesses —even
savings-banking—and it is a
good thing for the nation that
what was once practically a
Government monopoly now
has to compete with private
enterprise.
Savings-bank business should,
properly, be an important side-
line of the trading-banks or,
as in England, the post-office.
To set-up Government savings-
banks devoted to that type of
business alone, to maintain
costly bank-premises and highly
paid staff (doing in the main
elementary clerical work) and
then shovelling the money so
collected into Government and
semi-government loans, is ■ a
most expensive way of doing
things. It certainly does not
call for separate banking estab-
lishments to handle it and noth-
ing else.
This is well illustrated by the
spectacular acquisition of
savings-bank deposits by the
private trading-banks, which
has been achieved, apparently,
quite comfortably with their
existing staffs and premises.—
C. E. G. (Vic.).
Australian Shipping
“Look Out” (B. 17/7/’57) is
astray in his reference to the
“13 uneconomic ‘River’
steamers. Built during the war
they are coalburners and not
suited to coastwise general-
cargo handling.”
The “River”-class. ships, some
of which were completed a few
years after the war, are all oil-
burning ships; they were
originally intended for overseas
trade and to this end are still
as good as any of their type
afloat. During our recent
voyages overseas, including
India and Japan, we proved
that the ships could be run
economically and at a reason-
able speed.
It is an amazing state of
affairs that Australia, a country
of major primary production
and. industrial capacity, does
not carry its products to
foreign markets in its own
ships.
The Australian Shipping
Board was making a profit
when it handed over to the
new commission running the
Australian National Line. Since
then the astonishing increase in
shore staff mostly inexperi-
enced in shipping matters —has
raised our overhead to such
an extent that it now appears
impossible to make a profit.
A.N.L. ships, although
comparatively new in construc-
tion, are the most obsolete new
ships in the world. Not a
single vessel is equipped with
radar or gyro-compass or auto-
matic steering. Not all ships
have echo-sounders. Overseas,
even the most ancient Chinese
tramps are fitted with all these
aids, and in some cases
with Loran and/or Decca.—
Navigator (N.S.W.).
Rural Universities
ine Murray Development
League is all in favor of the
non-metropolitan university and
congratulates “The Bulletin”
on H. A. Linsday’s article in
the issue of August 7. The
case for a rural university
has been admirably presented
by Dr. W. A. Merrylees, presi-
dent of the Riverine Councils’
University League, with which
we are co-operating.
The Murray Valley Develop-
ment League has as members
60 local-governing bodies in the
three Murray Valley States, and
as associate members some
3000-4000 individuals, firms,
companies and organisations.
Its object is the protection and
development of the Murray
Valley, with a trebling of the
population to 1,000,000 people
in the next 20-30 years.
“Protection” implies due
care of the forests, soils and
water of the Murray and
tributary valleys, with particular
reference to the preservation of
the high catchment - areas.
“Development” refers not only
to land - settlement, irrigation,
new industries, etc., but to the
provision of amenities and
cultural opportunities for the
growing population.
More than 250,000 people
in N. S. Wales and Victoria
would benefit by a Murray
Valley or Riverine University.
The principal Murray Valley
centres are ready to provide
facilities required for successful
decentralisation. Water, power,
housing and labor requirements
will be found available and
adequate. Higher education
must be provided in line with
the general commercial and
industrial development of the
Murray Valley regions.
To stem the drift to the
capital cities provincial centres
must provide for the cultiva-
tion of all the aptitudes and
ambitions of young people, and
university education ought to
be made available in provincial
centres in surroundings that
predispose graduates to apply


their knowledge and under-
standing in a rural and pro-
vincial city context rather than
in the metropolis.—G. V.
Lawrence, Organising Secre-
tary, Murray Valley Develop-
ment League.
“Getting in the Wells”
Many a church striving to
meet today’s costs with yester-
day’s scale of giving will
worriedly consider calling in
the Wells organisation. As an
elder, and in substantial part
responsible for its introduction
into a small rural kirk, I saw
with misgiving four of six
elders leave the church because
they were unconvinced that
the canvass would embody the
spiritual aspect, and did not
believe that the system, with
its apparently high initial cost,
was the way to mend our
lamentable finances.
Understandable was the
reluctance of Lewis J. Wells
(B. 12/7/’57) to define his
organisation’s percentage
charge on the take, because
the fee is specifically based on
the number of church families,
and potential church families,
to be visited. If Colonel Wells
did say 5 per cent., his
arithmetic could be queried.
In our church the advised
target was £9OOO and we
attained £6711. The Wells fee
was £727, and it should be
noted that, of the attained
total, £2700 would have come
in anyway under the old style
of giving.
Targets or totals are com-
posed of pledges to contribute
for 150 weeks on a weekly
basis, and it is reasonably con-
tended that the advantage to
the church should not cease
at the end of the period.
The canvass is done, Under
guidance of a Wells representa-
tive, entirely by those leading
members of the church who
are in favor of the system. In
practice this Wells man comes
a week before the campaign
and selects the king-pin—the
director. It is a stressed
axiom that a canvasser (or
pledge - taker) should not
approach a prospect likely, or
even able, to make a pledge in
excess of that made by the
canvasser. As the first pledges
are those made by the can-
vassers to the director, it is
obvious how important his
appointment is.
Before the canvassing starts
a “loyalty dinner” is held, and
to it are invited all families
listed for visitation. During
the dinner the pledges already
made by the director and his
canvassers are announced.
Criticism does arise that this
expensive and not always well-
attended function is just a
softening-up for the hard sell.
Good results- of the campaign
usually depend on the strong
welding of the church-workers
in their team-drive towards the
goal, but it does seem that
the system in toto achieves
more success in new areas
where young couples have been
busy with marriage-, and
children since they came, and
can be fruitfully contacted for
re-association with their
church. In older districts with
older people most of those
who don’t go to church won’t.
Obviously the question is
why cannot the average church
do the job without costly
American supervision. It can
—any time there is a leader
ready to say he wishes to
pledge 5 per cent, of his tax-
able income and there are 15
or 20 other church members
willing to do the same and get
on with the canvass. — Seven-
elms (Vic.).
German Immigration
The Federal Minister for
Labor, Mr. Holt, is reported
to expect some 10,000 German
migrants, mostly skilled
workers, to come to Australia
during the current year.
Naturally this figure refers to
migrants from West Germany,
whence already a modest
number has reached Australia
during the present year. It
seems extremely doubtful,
however, whether an increased
number of skilled, or even of
ordinary urban, workers can be
expected in the near future,
despite the Minister’s optimism.
The extent of West
Germany’s economic develop-
ment during the past year in
almost every branch of industry
is a matter for wonderment
and concern to industrialists
throughout Western Europe.
The activity revealed by official
reports upon progress in heavy
and light industries, particu-
larly in electrical and machinery
trades, their plans for rapid
expansion and for world dis-
tribution of their output, point
to a constantly widening
demand for labor, both skilled
and semi-skilled.
Further evidence of German
industrial growth is manifest
in the fact that about 20,000
persons each month are making
their way surreptitiously from
the Soviet Zone into West
Germany. The percentage of
skilled workers among these
refugees is not very impressive
and is therefore not sufficient
to satisfy more than a fraction
of the demand.
Speaking at the opening of
a vast new factory near Stutt-
gart, the West German Minister
for Commerce said that
German industries were every-
where multiplying their output
and would continue to do so,
especially since they would be
exhibiting their wares at more
than thirty trade-fairs through-
out the world during the present
year.
In view of these circum-
stances, coupled with the fact
that Germany has her housing
problem for skilled workers at
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 449
Across
I—A trail’s domicile vaccinator or suchlike. (9)
s—The5 —The address of some Gippslanders in 1-across runs rings
around a crossword-maker. (4)
B—The old man to hoax an Irishman. (7)
10 — One feels like scratching the droppings of the careless
speakers. (7)
11— Traffic cop has a word her act spoilt for a way who
spots? (4-7)
13 — Latin sixpence’s shape when
remotely seen with a sixpence. (4)
14— It gives the time call to a
capital Chaldean schooner or
suchlike. (4-5)
17 — This makes a little bird beef in
a poison canceller. (9)
18 — A product of the Irish legislation
to the north grass-plot. (4)
20 —The tree of Ross in the midst
of a reason for motoring caution.
(5, 6)
22 —Turkish masters name the second
letter, the fifth, and the sixth! (7)
24 — Yours Truly is tense with nothing
but the devilkin as to the laying
on of pigment. (7)
25 — A secret agent infested with
serpents. (4)
26 — Greedily monopolises those who
rule institutions for educating
barrels: (9)
Down
1— Joint post-office saucepan diverts
river-horses. (14)
2 Light worshipper spoilt mirth
on the first-class street. (9)
3 Very much out of plumb like a
Melbourne suburb. (5)
4 Listen to the consumption vessel
for ashes with indigestion. (9)
5 Nothing to do like the dismissed
bat. (3)
6 It anaesthetises approximately
three. (5)
7 Burro brayer with ego lands
important crimes. (14)
9 —What I did when I had the
faintest hope of breaking my
duck country. (4)
12 —Victor To Enclasp Nothing But
Wolf. (4)
14 — A six-line verse to bewitch like
a little chap. (9)
15 — Australian airline’s state
unmanned a Bergman role. (9)
16 — The Italian eight turned to the
same thing in the orthodox way.
(4)
19 — Long-playing which is male
assistance. (4)
20— Faces into coffee-shops. (5)
22 — Object during the night. (5)
23 — Japanese money upset a French
marshal. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 448
THE BULLETIN, August 28, 1957


Largest Australian Coy
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
least well in hand, it would be
surprising if any appreciable
numbers of such Germans
would move across the world
to live indefinitely in camps
and hostels, for whatever else
he may be* the German is a
home-lover, and the Zeitgeist
most apparent under the
Adenauer Government em-
braces the idea of homes and
yet more homes for German
workers. Fred. Aarons
(N.S.W.).
Cost of Fire Insurance
While Australia seems to
manage very well with eight
principal trading-banks it is
intriguing to observe that in
its insurance business some-
thing like 150 companies are
participating in what must be
a rich harvest. Admittedly
some of them are subsidiary to
the larger organisations, but all
seem to have their full quota
of executives, advisory boards
and so forth.
All this top-heavy administra-
tion must be expensive and,
of course, the policyholders
pay. The incidence of loss by
fire, so far as dwellings are
concerned, anyway, is low and
the total of losses under this
head is out of all proportion
to the premium income. That
goes, too, for the contents of
houses.
There seems little doubt that
profits in the fire department
are applied towards losses in
other branches of the insurance
business. This is unfair to the
insurer of house property, as
the premiums for such risks
should be decided by losses in
that department. There is no
reason why the house-owner
should help an insurance
company to meet its losses in
the motor-car or third-party
section of its business.
In the town where I live I
can’t recall when the brigade
was last called out for a house
fire, and yet for £l5OO of cover
a premium of nearly £8 is
demanded. Every time the
renewal notice arrives the
company is at pains to inquire
whether such cover is sufficient
and suggesting that it should be
increased. It’s not surprising
that they are keen to do more
of such business, especially in
a town with an excellent fire-
brigade and water-supply. It
wouldn’t be a bad idea if
householders in the different
towns joined together and
carried their own risks on some
sort of co-operative basis.
It is significant that the War
Service Homes people and the
Credit Foncier charge very
small premiums and run the
insurance part of their business
themselves. — Fire Bug (Vic.).
Hospital Finance
I see that two N. S. Wales
country hospitals ended the
financial year with substantial
surpluses—Grafton (£4000) and
Orange (about £10,000). Good
management, no doubt, but the
catch is that the “profit,” or
“Well, Mr. Fixit —does it draw Well enough now ?”
surplus or whatever you care
to call it, can’t be used for
capital works and it is prac-
tically certain the subsidy of
each hospital, and indeed of all
hospitals showing surpluses,
will be reduced by a corres-
ponding amount.
That’s tough, to say the least
of it; but no doubt the hospitals
commission will reply that the
boards of these hospitals over-
estimated their financial
requirements and in reality
budgeted for a surplus. That
may be so, but I should think
it would offer practical
encouragement to hospital
boards to run their institutions
as efficiently as possible if they
were assured that over a period
of, say, three years they would
be allowed to spend as they
thought fit any surplus over
expenditure, and that their
subsidy would not be reduced
accordingly.
If hospitals were able to
provide accommodation for
everyone requiring a bed their
chance of making ends meet
would be very much better. The
great majority of people pay
into a hospital-fund today, but
only a small proportion of
them are able to secure admis-
sion when they are ill, unless
the illness is so serious that it
cannot be treated at home.
Thirty or 40 years ago the
fear of every sick person was
that he (or she) would be sent
to hospital immediately the
doctor called ; but today the
anxiety is to get a bed for even
sufferers from pneumonia if
there is anyone at home
capable of looking after the
sufferer.
I should think that the
greater the turnover of patients
the more economically a
hospital could operate without
charging unreasonably high
fees. Some hospitals now
demand payment in advance
from patients, and where the
sufferer is in a contribution-
fund and the admission is to a
private or intermediate ward
this can easily impose a severe
financial strain on the person
concerned. The fund usually
does not pay until some time
after the patient has been dis-
charged, and by then he can
be out of pocket £4O or £5O.
It would be reasonable for a
hospital to accept a signed
order on the fund to pay the
benefit direct to it and insist
on the advance payment only
of any deficiency. It could at
the same time give the patient
a signed undertaking to refund
the balance if the benefit
exceeded the hospital-fees.—*
Dix (N.S.W.).
Council Income
I’ve often wondered why
local - governing bodies,
particularly country shire and
municipal Councils, have hot
sought the right to enter the
fire-insurance field in their
areas with a view to acquiring
much-needed money for roads
and other amenities. Most
councils are chronically short
of money, and the Blue
Mountains (N.S.W.) City
Council has lately hit upon
the idea of taxing the inmates
of guesthouses in its area one-
shilling a week each to assist in
opening up its tourist-resorts.
There may be something in
the idea, though I don’t think
it will provide much money,
nor do I see how a guest can be
compelled to pay the shilling.
Fire-insurance, on the other
hand, would unquestionably
prove a lucrative field, because
the profits of fire-insurance
companies, despite occasional
lean periods, are always fairly
considerable.
If a shire or municipal
council undertook fire-
insurance in its area (on a
voluntary basis, of course) one
of its first tasks would be to
use its powers to compel
owners of vacant land to keep
down the rubbish on their areas
and so abate the bushfire risk.
This in itself would be a form
of insurance for the council,
since most claims for fire-
damage in the country arise
from the ravages of bushfires,
which spread because of the
failure of many property-
owners to keep down rubbish
and to burn fire-breaks around
their properties. Peter
Simple (N.S.W.).


KUV mom SAFE!
SANDERS
dW^FILE!
v*‘yy
mm
Correspondence, invoices.'
statements. etc., filed in the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference crt
the end of each month —by
any other period.
Prices and t <**■
Iher informatie*
l^pun
Jackson & O’Sullivan Piy. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
distributing A genu —
MELBOUftM , . Norm>D Bro». rtl- l '*
ADELAIDE j , 1 Vardoo Erl" U ,
rE*r« J ; | bo.b ca (*““■>
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
BRISBANE EXHIBITION NOTES
QUEENSLAND is an insigni-
ficant producer of fat-lamb,
but exhibits at this year’s Bris-
bane Show indicated that it is
an industry which could expand
to one of national importance
on the rich Darling Downs. In
the carcass-for-export competi-
tion a pen of thiree Southdown
crossbreds, entered by K. C.
Munro, of Cambooya (Q.),
was described by the
judge, F. M. McMahon,
Queensland manager of Wilson
Meats Pty., Ltd., as being equal
to the best lamb produced any-
where in the world.
Throughout their growth
they never received a setback
and could not be faulted,
he said. They could not be
improved upon even by New
Zealand “tops,” which had the
reputation of being the best
lamb in the world.
H* *l*
Four-figure values realised
for an unusually large number
of top bulls produced a higher
all-round average price at the
Show stud beef-cattle auctions
than last year. However, there
When an investiga-
tion was conducted to
ascertain the relation-
ship between the
various characteristics
of avool and prices, it
was discovered that
quality count and
fineness were the pre-
dominating factor,
accounting for 80 per
cent, of price varia-
tions. Investigation
would also probably
reveal that the use of
Elastrator Rubber
Rings is a predominat-
ing factor of safety
when marking and
tailing lambs.
was a drift in values for
animals in the lower ranges.
Average obtained for 274
animals was 365|gns., compared
with 327gns. at the 1956 Show
sales.
The magnificent junior
champion Hereford bull
Windsor Winston made the
highest price of the auctions
over all breeds. He was
knocked down at 3050gns. to
D. G. G. and H. Bligh, of
Willowtree, Brookstead (Q.h
D. McCamley, of Playfields,
Dulu (Q.), paid 1750gns. for the
Hereford bull Woodlands
Saga, third in his Show class,
which came from the Wood-
lands Stud, Greenmount (Q.).
K. B. Tomkins, of Stuart’s
Creek, Injune (Q.), bought
another Woodlands bull, Wood-
lands Fiesta, for 1650gns.
Woodlands sold nine bulls for
9400gns.
D. S. McConnel, of Cree-
brook, Toogoolawah (Q.), paid
1600gns. for Woodlands Earl,
from the Woodlands Stud. A
total 42,345gn5., or an average
of 455|gns., was realised for
92 Hereford bulls and one
female.
* * *
Among the Poll Herefords,
82 bulls and seven females made
£34,815 ss. The bulls made the
very satisfactory average of
£389 ss. 10d., which was only
slightly under last year’s average
of £394.
Top price paid for a Poll
Hereford was 2000gns.,
obtained by Mrs. N. P. Wright
for the reserve-champion bull,
Blandford Charles. He was
bought by L. S. Oxley, of
Yelarbon (Q.). Sire of Bland-
ford Charles is the renowned
Blandford Beau, the 1951 Bris-
bane champion. It was at the
1951 Show that J. Sparkes, of
Lyndley, bought Blandford
Beau for 3100gns.—a record
for Brisbane that has yet to be
beaten.
Oxley also bought Mrs.
Wright’s champion bull, Bland-
ford Domino, paying lOOOgns.
Five bulls were sold on account
of Mrs. Wright for 4850gn5.,
the average of 970gns. being
the highest obtained by any
Poll Hereford breeder.
The reserve-junior-champion
bull, Trevanna Corvette 4th,
was sold on account of S. A.
Plant and Sons, of Trevanna,
Cooyar (Q.), for 1350gns. to
A. H. Besch, of Prospect Vale,
Bajool, near Rockhampton (Q.).
Northern Territorian W. G.
Anderson, of Tobermorey,
Alice Springs, took a Wood-
lands bull, Woodlands Boxer,
who was second in his Show
class, for 1250gns. One-
thousand guineas was given by
the Torsdaie Pastoral Co.,
Biloela (Q.), for Inverary
Domino 26th, a class winner
sold for J. H. Anderson and
Sons, of Inverary, YandiUa
<Q.).
* * *
Poll Shorthorns averaged
351gns. for *3l bulls, and
342gns. for four females. For
bulls a breed record of 2000gns.
was established with the junior
champion Welltown Master-
piece. He was bought by J.
Fisher, of Goulburn (N.SAV.),
from Wm. Leonard and Sons,
Welltown, Goondiwindi (Q.).
Top price for Shorthorns was
560gns. for Apex- Gresford,
who won his Show class for
Mr. C. Parker, of Meandarra
(Q).
* * Of
Entries totalling 654 in the
five dairy-breed divisions were
well down on last year’s 828
entries, but despite this setback
overall quality of the exhibits
had never been higher.
An encouraging feature of
the dairy-cattle successes was
that top cows in two breeds
already had gained renown as
butterfat producers before tak-
ing off championship honors.
One of them, the champion
Australian lllawarra Shorthorn
cow, Sunny View Thelma 39th,
put up an official Australian
butterfat-production record for
her breed of 6361 b. in 300 days
as a junior two-year-old.
This cow, exhibited by J.
Phillips and Sons, of Sunny
View, Kingaroy (QJ, has just
completed her lacfation with
7731 b. butterfat as a junior
three-year-old.
Auchen Eden Venus, a
magnificent Ayrshire cow, to
take off championship honors
in her division for J. N. Scott,
of Camp Mountain, Samford
(Q.), holds a Queensland record
for her breed of 7281 b. butter-
fat in 300 days as a senior two-
year-old.
Champion Jersey cow, Inver-
law Some Syra, exhibited by
R. J. Crawford and Sons, of
fnverlaw, Kingaroy (Q.), was a
cow of outstanding quality,
carrying a beautiful vessel.
Some Syra is a worthy
daughter of Trecarne Some
Duke 4th, last year’s champion
bull at Brisbane, for which
R. J. Crawford and Sons paid
an Australian record price of
lOOOgns. when he was only
five months old.
* * *
Guernseys were the best
quality representatives of their
breed to be shown at Brisbane.
Friesians were of good
standard, but could have had
a little more length, taking them
all through.
Out of seven appearances at
Brisbane Ettrick Echo’s Dainty,
shown by Hickey and Sons Pty.’
Ltd., of Glendaloigh, Wilston
(Q.), was female champion for
the fifth time. This cow has
never been beaten in her class.
* * *
A new Queensland record
of 2700gns. was established for
a Haddon Rig ram at the
Brisbane Show ram auctions, at
which an outstanding selection
of 247 rams realised 24.967]
gns., or an average of lOlgns.
The record-breaker was
bought by the Lansdowne
Pastoral Co., Tam bo (Q.),
where Haddon Rig rams have
been used since 1920.
Previous record at Brisbane
was 1650gn5., paid last year
for a Bundemar ram. At the
1956 Brisbane sales 267 rams
made 22,665gn5., or an average
of 84|gns.
* * 1 *
Highlight of the sheep-
industry display of the Show
was the National Fleece
Competition, inaugurated at the
Melbourne Show last year. An
excellent overall standard of
exhibits, totalling 297 fleeces,
was highly praised by a panel
of inter-State judges.
The competition, sponsored
by the National Council of
Wool Selling Brokers of Aus-
tralia, attracted entries from
Queensland, New South Wales,
Victoria, and Tasmania.
Commenting on the display,
the Melbourne judge, R. H.
Harwood, said the very high
standard set at the initial com-
petition at Melbourne had
been well maintained, although
there was probably not quite
the showing of top-line fleeces
in the finest grades as were


Russian Comfrey
1. Outyields all other crops with
100 tons an acre each year, and
has exceeded all other crops in
protein (33.68%).
2. Is already thriving in cold-
teinperate, temperate and sub-
tropic parts of Australia. 100%
strike of my planting material
reported from as far away as
Western Australia.
3. Will yield up to one ton a day
from only 1£ acres with good
management. Produces large
Quantities of feed when pasture
is scarce. Has great drought
resistance when established.
4. Persists for up to 40 years
without deteriorating. Does
not seed, sucker or get out of
control. Certified by C.5.1.R.0.
as NOT TOXIC. Is not easily
frost-burnt. Is very mineral
rich owing to deep root system.
Contains much lime.
5. Is valuable calf-food. Cows and
calves love it. Causes good
milk flow. Contains valuable
medicine Allantoin w r hich stops
scouring.
6. Does not bloat, banishes intes-
tinal and digestive troubles.
Has lew fibre content for pigs
and poultry. Farmers say pigs
will leave almost any food to
eat it.
7. Can be sun-dried and stored as
high protein meal.
8. Is beneficial to sheep, goats and
horses also.
9. Has no known Insect pests, is
not touched by rabbits, is very
hardy. Has been introduced
to thousands of Australian
farms.
10. Is easier to establish, longer In
cut and higher in yield than
lucerne. Has been authori-
tatively rated equal to Italian
ryegrass, probably the choicest
of grasses in feeding value.
Roots from farm-tested, plants avail-
able. Immediate delivery. Will reach
any part of Australia in less than week
and arrival fresh guaranteed. An
interest taken in your growing prob-
lems. Prompt reply to enquiries.
Send for introductory booklet giving
my farm experiments with this remark-
able crop, and book with pioneer
grower.
W. F. SAVAGE,
GREEN FARM, RED HIED STH.,
VICTORIA.
seen at the previous national
competition.
Grand-champion fleece of
the Commonwealth was
entered by the Bullamalita
Pastoral Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Goulburn (N.S.W.). It was
the fleece which won the class
for skirted fleece of superfine
Merino ewe or wether’s wool,
80’s or up. Mr. Harwood
described this as a superfine
Merino fleece which was almost
the ultimate in style. It was
a particularly soft, well-bred
wool, dense, and possessed all
the attributes one would look
for in a real champion fleece.
Color and bloom left little to
be desired.
* * *
Queensland’s first “Wool
Princess,” Miss Jennifer
Hobbs, a jilleroo, of Birkdale,
Dartmouth (Q.), was crowned
at the Show by the State’s new
Premier (Mr. Frank Nicklin).
Miss Hobbs, who is 19, will
spend 10 days in Japan as part
of her prize.
NORTHMAN.
Vertical Mulching
First we had deep ploughing ;
then came subsoiling and deep
ripping ; then they put fertiliser
deep in the soil subsoil-
fertilisation. Now the latest
idea in America is to stuff
chopped-up stubble, weeds,
green-manure, into the subsoil
to catch and hold more
moisture.
The practice is so new that
it is, as yet, quite unproved,
but scientists at Purdue Uni-
versity, Indiana, are hopeful
that there might be a place for
it in soil-conservation, or even
in general agricultural opera-
tions.
“Vertical mulching” is the
name which the agronomists
have given to this soil- and
water-conservation practice, of
which more will be heard in
the future.
Deep tillage—ploughing or
subsoihng—has given mixed
results in field-trials in the
United States. Even after quite
intensive research by the
Department of Agriculture and
many universities and State
colleges, there are few examples
where definite advantages were
apparent, other than where
good conditions of subsoil-
drainage existed.
Subsoiling alone rarely pro-
duced significant increases in
yields, although certain investi-
gators indicated that they had
measured increases in soil-
moisture content and increased
plant-root growth.
But the shattering of the sub-
soil and the loose, open
channels resulting from sub-
soiling often disappeared after
the first moderate to heavy
rainfall. Some soils ran
together, sealed, and returned
to their original condition, a
result commonly recorded also
in Australia and New Zealand.
Scientists then thought:
“Perhaps if root-growth can be
stimulated in the subsoil,
natural channels will be created
“You been scrimping on the housekeeping-money again,
Bert —buying Formosan tea ?”
in the subsoil for the movement
of water and air. Then the
soil might not settle back.”
So fertiliser was placed in
deep vertical bands behind
subsoilers, and the results
watched.
Under some soil and climatic
conditions, these results were
favorable, but it seemed clear
that spectacular results could
not be expected for any one
year. In fact, in some cases
yields of crops were reduced.
However, it was felt that the
benefits of subsoil-fertilisation
would gradually increase, and
last for a long time.
The next logical step was
vertical mulching—an attempt
to stabilise the initial subsoil-
channel, to stop the soil running
together again, and to continue
to help the movement of air
and water into the subsoil for
several years.
The operation uses a sub-
soiler to loosen the soil and
open a slot in the ground. The
subsoiler is modified by adding
wings to the standard, and
these open the soil wider than
does normal subsoiling, and
hold it open for a short time.
A flail-type forage-harvester is
used to cut and chop crop
residue, and then blow it down
a full 20in. into the slot held
open by the subsoiler wings.
A 38 - drawbar - horsepower
crawler-tractor, equipped with
a tool-bar to take the subsoiler,
served as the tractive power-
unit in the trials. It had a full
load in first gear pulling the
modified subsoiler, and the
separately powered forage-
harvester which was attached
to an extended drawbar.
Studies to date at Purdue
University confirm that vertical
mulching does, in fact, increase
the durability of the subsoil-
channel in tight soils, and in
soils with pan conditions. It
is thought that the treatment
might also become an effective
soil- and water-management
technique on other soils.
When used on the contour
as a soil-conservation measure
it has been called “invisible
terracing.”
Tests showed that vertical-
mulched channels will soak-up
two inches of rain an hour
when placed 80in. apart. The
Purdue scientists think that
these channels might also serve
to direct the flow of water,
enhancing erosion-control and
drainage.
For example, tests by agri-
cultural engineers showed that
water moves downgrade along
the bottom of the trash-filled
channels. So the scientists will
try putting channels perpendi-
cular to major tile-drains, to
see if they will serve as minor
drains.
Another claim is that
vertical mulching might help
to increase the infiltration rate
when flood-irrigating some tight
soils, and that it might also
correct or prevent pan condi-
tions which frequently develop
under the intensive-farming
practices of irrigated areas.
So far nobody knows for
sure how long the trash will
last. After one year, chopped
straw has blackened and con-
densed, but it still takes in
water. The rotting of some
straw seems to be more than
offset by the increased earth-
worm activity. Worms have
honeycombed the soil near the
channels. Presumably bacterial
activity is stepped up in the
subsoil.
There are problems, of
course . . . Cost of equipment,
for instance ; cost of the opera-
tion itself . . .
Some workers suspect that,
while the practice certainly
will increase water-intake, the
reverse might also be true, and
in arid or semi-arid regions
water might be lost up the


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO RONALD JOHN DAWSON late of
Longreach Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE
that MAVIS ANNIE DAWSON has filed
a. Petition for Divorce No. 1972 of 1956
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise,
of the Court’s discretion under
5.19(2)(a) of the Matrimonial Cause*
Act 1899 If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 4th November 1957 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. CLAYTON,
UTZ & CO., Solicitors, of 136 Liver-
pool Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HERBERT HUDSON GUY late of
7 Bruce Road Fern Hill Corrimal.—
TAKE NOTICE that LILIAN MINNIE
GUY has filed a Petition No. 749 of
1957 for divorce from you on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 4th day of November 1957 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MERVYN FINLAY &
COMPANY, Solicitors, Newlands House,
141 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—C. A.
HARMS, Deputy Registrar.
mulch-channels by “wick”
evaporation.
Purdue workers can be
assured of considerable interest
among farmers, conserva-
tionists, agronomists and soil-
scientists as the results of their
more detailed experiments are
published.
J. E. Slee.
Tidy Farms
“Wellington”: Hygiene is
advocated loudly and often in
the control of human and
animal diseases, but it’s just as
important in reducing the
damage caused by diseases to
plants.
Most fungi and some insects
need a place in which to spend
a part of their life-cycle during
the period when the crops are
not growing.
For example, wheat-rust lives
on self-sown wheat and some
weeds during the autumn;
black-spot of the apple and
pear lives on old fruit-leaves;
eelworm cysts develop on
wild-oats and barley-grass.
So, to be effective, control
must include a thorough clean-
up of all sorts of rubbish, as
well as spraying and other
more spectacular methods on
which many of us tend to rely
too much.
Control of carrier-weeds,
especially, has the additional
advantage of preventing them
“stealing” valuable plant-foods
and moisture which can be
used much more profitably by
the commercial crop.
Evening Primrose
“Myall”: Experiments have
proved that evening-primrose
is able to withstand long
periods of dry weather, making
it valuable as a fodder-plant in
light-rainfall areas.
Kogan, on the western fringe
of the Darling Downs (Q.), is
forest country with hard, grey
sand: third-rate land. Here, a
trial plot was sown in Feb-
ruary last, following the fall of
an inch of rain, and a first-
class “strike” was obtained. A
dry spell, lasting four months,
set in when the young plants
were about 2in. high, and
although all other vegetation
burnt-off and died, the prim-
rose hung on. Good rains
fell in June, the plants immedi-
ately responded, and are now
growing strongly.
Evening-primrose is recom-
mended for well-drained sands
and loams of the poorer areas
of the inland. Sheep and
cattle eat it readily, and as it
is at its best in the late spring
and early summer, when other
fodder is usually scarce, a
paddock of the plant is a good
insurance against dry times.
Green Landscape
“Stringer”: No need nowa-
days for the southern part of
Australia to be a “sunburnt
country,” if landowners take
the trouble to have some green-
feed in their paddocks all the
year round.
A tall order? Not for large
stretches of country, in reason-
ably good seasons, with good
management. Early cuts of
spring pasture not only ensure
good-quality silage, but also
top the pasture, making weeds
easier to handle, and give a
good chance of a green
growth well on towards
Christmas, and sometimes into
the New Year, after a late
rain.
Lucerne —irrigated or “dry”
—carries on the greenness into
the summer and autumn, dur-
ing which it can be supple-
mented by other fodder-crops,
such as rape.
The chief urgency during
late winter is to prepare for
those summer crops as soon as
possible. Like everything else,
they do best in a well-worked,
weed-free seed-bed. Seedings
can begin in October ans con-
tinue for several weeks, to give
a good succession of feed until
the autumn break has got
pasture growing again. Plenty
of conserved fodder is needed
as a standby in case of a dry
autumn or damage by insects.
Sheep Fertility
“J. W. S.”: Touching
“Bolivar’s” complaint (B.
7/8/’57) that nobody seems to
have done any research to
raise the lambing percentage,
Australian sheep-breeders
aren’t worried about the
fecundity of their sheep
because they have no reason to
be ; nor, at the present rate, are
they likely to be worried.
Granted there is some bad
husbandry in the pastoral
industry, but the Agricultural
Departments and the C.5.1.R.0.
are laboring manfully to lift
the veil of ignorance ; though
to say the tendency towards
multiple births is being lost is
making a very wide and sweep-
ing statement.
It is also one that would be
very hard to prove, for, given
similar conditions to the
average U.K. sheepfarm—i.e.,
a high and even, plane of
nutrition, small paddocks, small
flocks, closer observation and
attention to folding and joining
which almost amounts to hand-
service—any Australian cross-
breeds and English breeds
would hold their own.
Why, I’ve marked 113 per
cent., 119 per cent., and 114
per cent, in a mob of over 1200
Borders on country not
recognised as being first-class.
The reason? A run of good
autumns.
A most important factor in
the production of multiple
births is nutritional, as is
proved by the increased
numbers of twins and triplets in
Merinos and crossbreds when
the ewes have been “flushed”
with green-feed just prior to
mating.
Our lambing percentage can-
not be effectively compared to
the percentage obtained in
either the U.K. or New
Zealand, because of the great
range in the type of country
used for breeding, the fact
that the greatest number of
any breed used in Australia is
the Merino, which has never
been noted for the number
of multiple births, and also
because we have far more
trouble from predators—
dingoes, foxes, pigs, crows and
eagles.
Another influence would be
the fact that hard feed and hard
country force some owners to
discard ewes at five or six
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(15/8/’57)
Queensland should get good rains in many areas during
September, with the heaviest falls on the central highlands
and central coast. The Peninsula, and north-west and
Bundaberg areas confined to p'oor rainfall.
Moderate to good, general rains are likely in N.S.W.
during September, witb the best falls on the northern
tablelands, south-west slopes and Riverina. Moderate, patchy
rains should occur in October and November, with general
rains during December.
General rains are indicated in Victoria during September,
with the likelihood of flooding in the Murray and tribu-
taries. Reasonably good follow-on rains should occur in
October and November, but December may be confined to
patchy rainfall.
Apart from light to moderate rain in the interior and
On the west coast, South Australia should receive general
rains during September. Moderate patchy rains should
occur in the agricultural areas during October, with better
rains during November.
The south-west and south coast of Western Australia
should receive good rains during September, but apart from
light rain in the Gascoyne and goldfields areas, rainfall
should be patchy elsewhere. Similar rains are likely in
October.
LENNOX WALKER.


Interesting 12 pages booklet now available:
“Pamphlet on Russian Comfrey in Australia”
“Propagation, Cultivation and Use”
By IELIX MERMET Priee: 2/4 posted
Russian Comfrey is a newly imported plant, being culinary, medicinal, and a
great fodder plant, it is perennial, long lived, deep rooted, can give up to
125 Tons of fodder to the acre, propagation very easy by root cuttings.
Thousands of farmers and gardeners - are interested, so please book your
cuttings for spring delivery, 4 for 20/-, 55/- per dozen, rail or post free.
With each order for 20/- we give receipt and the booklet free.
Felix MERMET, Glenelwyn, LOWANNA, 3C, N.S.W.
Author and publisher of “Culinary, Scented and Medicinal Herbs,” 72 pages.
6/3 posted; “Geraniums and Pelargoniums in Australia,” 72 pages, 6/6 posted.
Priee list of Culinary, Scented, Medicinal Herbs available.
Please add exchange to cheques. Mention ‘-The Bulletin.”
Hoiv to enjoy a glass
of Bell s
wmotm
gg g®|
W&&0&
wmmm\
a»S
wmi
..
R
Wm
m
mm
wszm.
Sniff it... Inhale the mild yet full aroma
Sip it.. • How smooth it is, with no trace
of bite or harshness
Down it .. • Feel its warm, friendly glow
You simply cannot drown it!
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
BEIXS
A/LJBJbte
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES DISTILLED
& BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Arthur Bell <2? Sons Ltd • Distillers, Perth, Scotland • E5t.1825
years of age: thus the per-
centage culled from the maiden
ewes is lessened, and the
number of acceptable faults
increased. Also, the older ewes
are more frequently replaced
by maiden ewes, and maiden
ewes are notoriously inclined
to abandon their offspring.
As more land is laid-down
to improved pastures, and the
improved techniques advocated
by the Agricultural Depart-
ments and C.5.1.R.0. come into
general use, then our lambing
percentage will rise. Person-
ally, I hope that it will do
so through the lowering of the
lamb mortality-rate.
Fair Trial
“M a x w e 11 o n”: Many
farmers are poorer than they
should be because they don’t
give new r practices a fair trial.
For instance, in a recent survey
of Vic. wheatlands Molnar
found that only a small per-
centage of Mallee farmers were
using the recommended 901 b.
of super, to the acre with their
wheat-crops.
Most were using 601 b. per
acre —-possibly because they
could see the difference between
601 b. and lower doses in the
crops, while the difference
between 601 b. and 901 b.,
although real enough, was less
obvious. Apart from the gain
in yield, half a bag of super.
(901 b.) gives medics and clovers
a better chance of growing well
after a cereal crop.
Another example is the
grazier who tries 301 b. of
potash to the acre when lcwt.
is recommended. When the
smaller amount does not
produce a spectacular increase
in growth, many farmers con-
clude that potash is no good.
The same conclusion is often
reached when animals are
allowed unrestricted access to
trial-strips, which can’t exhibit
extra growth when kept at
ground-level with the rest of
the paddock.
Poor Teeth
“Milburn”: While it has
always been recognised that
full-mouthed sheep become
gummies faster in sandy
country, where there is more
wear-and-tear on the teeth,
than in lush pasures, dental
:are of flocks has never
received more attention than at
present.
New Zealand studies have
had the rather unexpected
result of showing that deteriora-
tion has been greater on im-
proved pastures than on the
rougher hill-country, and also
greater on fine silt and sand
than on pumice country, which
is hard on implements.
Turnips—a valuable winter-
fodder in the Dominion —are
also hard on the teeth, of
young and old sheep
particularly.
An outcome of these studies
may be the use of fluorine in
drinking-water, to strengthen
teeth of sheep.
One of the most valuable sets
of teeth ever found on a sheep
was discovered by a Portland
(Vic.) butcher who noticed
specks of gold inlaid in the
teeth of a sheep hanging up in
his shop. The fillings had not
been put there by a dentist —
they were apparently the result
of grazing on gold-bearing
country.
Speed-limits
“Waldo”: Even five miles an
hour can be too fast for safety
when it comes to working dry
soils, or performing some other
farm operation where
thoroughness is more essential
than speed.
Fast cultivation not only
helps to destroy soil-structure,
but, in light land especially,
powders the sod and throws the
topsoil several feet, as well as
leaving a comparatively smooth
surface where ridges would be
a better safeguard against
erosion.
Fast speed is detrimental in
the orchard, where spraying
must be thorough to be much
good. A good coverage of
spray on the trees is impossible
when the driver speeds along
the rows.
• The danger of speed is less
obvious in the hay-neld, where
haymakers are always in a
hustle to get the job finished
before rain spoils the results of
their toil. Newly cut hay can
stand raking at fairly fast
speeds, but drier hay must be
handled much more carefully,
to preserve the leaves, which
contain by far the greatest
portion of food-value.
Many haymakers, notably
Americans, prefer to handle
hay on dewy nights rather
than in the heat of the day, to
minimise the danger of losing
leaves.
Speedometers are a novelty
on tractors, but they would be
well worth their cost on most
farms. Contracts for haymak-
ing and other operations could
well include a clause forbid-
ding speeds of more than a
certain m.p.h.
Judging Weight
“Curly”: To estimate the
dressed-weight of cattle, take
the measurement (in feet) of the
girth of a beast behind the
shoulders, then take the length
(in feet) of the back from the
forepart of the shoulder-blade
to the bone at the junction of
the tail. Multiply the square
of the girth by five times the
length of the back, and then
take two-thirds of the product.
The result is the dressed weight
in pounds. For example, if the
B irth °f a bullock is 7ft. and the
ien § th of the back is sft - the
dressed-weight is found thus:
Multtply the square of 7 (49)
by ? ve . “"If 8 ,, 5 tbe
product will be 1225. Divide
1225 by 3 and multiply by 2.
This will give 8161 b V ery fat
cattle will weigh 5 per cent,
more ; lean animals 5 per cent,
less.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
History was made when the Lord
Mayor (Cr. Sir Frank Selleck) and Lady
Selleck were given a reception at Parlia-
ment House by the State Government —
it was the first time a Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress have been paid this honor
on the eve of their retirement. The
Premier escorted Lady Selleck, Mrs.
Bolte accompanying the Lord Mayor.
The lovely pink hyacinths of her presen-
tation-bouquet contrasted with the smart
black-wool frock and tiny black-velvet
cap worn by Lady Selleck. Mrs. Bolte’s
choice was a frock of slate-blue wool
matched by her small hat, which featured
a crushed crown.
Mrs. Arthur Rylah, wife of the Chief
Secretary, wore a full-length fur coat, a
pine-green wool frock and a hat in soft-
beige tonings. Mrs. Geoffrey Tolson,
daughter of the guests-of-honor, wore a
coffee - toned flower - trimmed straw
sailor-hat with her black-taffeta frock.
Lady Eager, wife of the President of the
Legislative Council, teamed a trim black
suit and a small taupe flower-trimmed
hat. The Speaker’s wife, Mrs. W. J. F.
McDonald, gained contrast for her black
wool-crepe frock with a small lettuce-
green velvet cap. The newly-elected
Leader of the Opposition (Mr. E.
Shepherd) was accompanied by Mrs.
Shepherd, who wore a grey-and-white-
patterned wool frock with a small green
felt hat.
☆ ☆ ☆
Rilsan, a new synthetic, comes in fila-
ment-yarns and staple-fibres/ It may be
dyed and printed by means of various
dyes and may be fast-dyed. It does not
absorb water; garments made from it
retain their shape well, and it can be
permanently pleated. A showing of it
at the Hotel Australia by Brochier, the
French makers, included metal-brocades
for evening-gowns and jacquard-fabrics
specially designed for skirts and woven
in a panel-design. Printed fabrics in
many different patterns included cotton,
rayon and silk. “Innovation,” a cotton-
yarn specially treated before weaving to
make it uncreasable, allows quick drying
and no ironing. There were also samples
of natural silk, douppion, warp-printed
taffeta and chiffon.
Seven of the best Lyons manufac-
turers are using a new weave, Cinq a Sept,
which is silky in texture and reasonably
priced. Among other samples from
Brochier were a shantung-satin chiffon,
satin-back crepon-chiffon, silk-douppion
weaves such as warp-and-weft shantung-
linen, and a very soft shantung-satin.
There were also jerseys, nylon-taffeta (for
raincoats) and shantung-twill.
n a a
The energetic members of the Young
Contingent held a dance at the home of
Mr. and Mrs. E. Lesh at Armadale and
donated the proceeds to the scholarship-
fund established to assist the education of
British migrant children at the Northcote
farm, Bacchus Marsh. Sprays of orchids
and white camellias decorated the recep-
tion-rooms, and guests, including a group
of R.A.F. officers stationed at Laver-
ton, were welcomed by Y.C. chairman
Pamela Middleton, Susan Lesh, Barbara
Hewitt and Bruce Beck. Guests included
Dr. and Mrs. Frank May, Mr. and Mrs.
Douglas Zerbe, Margaret Herring, Mar-
jorie Tatnall, Beverley West, Joan Taafe,
Gillian Goulding, Yvonne Duncan, Peter
Mapleback, Max Chapman and John
Koschade.
During her three years’ official hostess-
ing at the Town Hall as Lady Mayoress.
Lady Selleck has made a host of friends.
Her special delight has been meeting the
numerous women who work for various
charitable organisations in this city. Her
last big official function was the reception
given to U K. High Commissioner Lord
Carrington and Lady Carrington. A
gracious and endearing personality has
made her one of the most popular Lady
Mayoresses Melbourne has had.
“W.S.”: Historic Caroline House,
Caroline Street, South Yarra, built in
1853 by Captain Kaye, private secretary
to Victoria’s first three Governors, was
the setting for a delightful cocktail-and-
buffet dinner-party given by Paul Lynch.
Guests-of-honor were Ernest Haisman
and Helen McDougall, who recently
announced their engagement. Among the
80 guests were the Premier (Mr. Henry
Bolte) and Mrs Bolte, Sir Frank
and Lady Selleck, the President of
the Legislative Council (Sir Clifden
Eager) and Lady Eager, Mr. Jack Wedg-
wood and his wife, Senator Ivy Wedg-
wood, Mrs. Harold Holt (her husband
was still in Canberra), Sir John Jun«-
wirth, and the secretary to the Treasury
(Mr. A. T. Smithers) and Mrs. Smithers.
Other guests were Dame Sybil Thorn-
dike and Sir Lewis Casson, who were
accompanied by their daughter-in-law,
Mrs. John Casson. With the Assistant
U.S. Air Attache (Major L. J. Donnelly)
was Mrs. Donnelly, and also present
were Mr. and Mrs. Roy Dixon, Mr. and
Mrs. Norman Watt, Mrs. John Heath
and Mr. and Mrs. Norman Lynch. Mrs.
Constance Day, Mrs. John Newton and
Surgeon-Captain Henry Gault were also
among the guests.
v v v
The marriage of Barbara, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Cyril Tehan, of Dixie
Park, Dixie, and Eugene, only son of
Mr. and Mrs. Tom Darcy, of Elderwood,
Birregurra, was celebrated at Xavier
College Chapel with Nuptial Mass. The
bride’s Princess-line gown was of cream
delustred satin, and her fingertip-tulle
veil was held by a circlet of lily-of-the-
valley. Carol Cavanagh, of Yarrawonga,
was bridesmaid ; with her Princess-line
balleri.na-frock of pink velvet she carried
a bouquet of pink lily-of-the-valley, and
her headdress was of the same fragrant
flowers. Pierce Moloughney was best
man. Reception was at the Hotel
Federal.
v
The engagement of Ann Robin and
Paul Lynch has just been announced.
Ann is the only daughter of Mrs. L. J.
Milne, of Lansell Road, Toorak, and
Paul the younger son of Mr. and Mrs.
Norman Lynch, of Stradbrooke Avenue,
Toorak. To celebrate the engagement,
Ann’s uncle and aunt, Mr. and Mrs. Roy
Gray, gave a small buffet dinner-party at
their home in Malvern Road, Armadale.
Mrs. Milne was present, as were Mr.
and Mrs. Norman Lynch and their only
daughter Leveda. Other guests were
Elizabeth Trumble, Angela Wawn (and
her fiance, Stanley Grant), Mr. and Mrs.
Tim Ingles, Mary Bourke (Pakenham),
Ann's uncle Mr. Erl Gray, and his wife,
and another aunt. Miss Roma Gray. Ann
is wearing a large square-cut sapphire
ring with diamond shoulders.
CANBERRA
The new counsellor of the U.K. High
Commission had some interesting things
to say about customs of ancient countries
he has lived in when he addressed a meet-
ing of the Canberra branch of the Vic-
toria League. Speaking op his experiences
in Ethiopia he said the mixture of ancient
and modern customs there was quite
fascinating, a common example of this
being observed when a distinguished
Ethiopian lady, on arrival at a diplomatic
party, would discard her heavy veiling and
dark flowing drapes to reveal a Dior
model-gown complete with Western
make - up. Mr. Bell’s appointment
immediately before coming to Australia
was in Saudi Arabia, but his stay there


was short-lived when diplomatic relations
with Britain were broken.
V ' V * *
The 31st annual congress of the A.C.T.
branch of the R.S.L. was opened officially
by the American Ambassador, Mr.
William J. Sebald, at the Lady Gowrie
Services Hall, Canberra. Among the
many visitors was the Federal president,
Sir George Holland, who came from
Melbourne for the occasion. Delegates
and guests with their wives were enter-
tained at a reception after the opening,
and were welcomed by the retiring branch
president, Mr. Timbs, and the president-
elect, Mr. R. D. Hull, and Mrs. Hull.
L v V *
Exciting new cottons in cinnamon,
muted pinks and chartreuse tones were
among the new spring fashions shown by
Sylvia Parsons from designers in three
States at a “Spring Preview of Fashion”
arranged by the Business and Professional
Women's Club of Canberra at Lawley
House. Hats by Helene R. were light and
gay, the off-the-brow style being featured
in varied materials ; one lovely model
worn by silver-blonde Marianne Leidloff,
of Melbourne, was made entirely of rose-
petals in soft yellow tones with a touch
of pale-green veiling. Colorful jewellery
shown was from E. and C. Chandler.
Attractive Pat Woodley, from Sydney,
compered the parade.
Madame Chen Tai-Chu, wife of the
Chinese Minister, with Mrs. Hess, wife
of the German Ambassador, and Mrs.
Gunasekara, wife of the High Com-
missioner for Ceylon, were noted among
the onlookers.
SYDNEY
It may be a big build-up to Father's
Day, of course, but men seemed to steal
the thunder at most of the week’s notable
functions. At the opening of State Parlia-
ment the R.A.A.F. band and guard-of-
honor, the brilliant uniforms, the 22
mounted policemen with their blue-and-
white pennants (Sydney's constant and
rewarding contribution to pageantry),
Usher of the Black Rod Mr. E. C. Shaw
(so 18th-century in black breeches and
white ruffles), and the gold-embroidered
cloak of University Chancellor Sir
Charles Bickerton-Blackburn all made the
women's raiment merely insignificant.
Mrs. Woodward and daughter Judy
were present to see the Governor, Lieut.-
General E. W. Woodward, open Parlia-
ment —his first essay and apparently
quite successful. Among parties which
followed was one given by Legislative
Council President W. E. Dickson and
Mrs. Dickson, the guests including Sir
Henry Manning and his daughter, Miss
Eleanor Manning.
V # V
Also masculine in character was the
opening ceremony of Wentworth House,
destined to house barristers and provide
a happy meeting-ground for members of
the Bar Association of N.S.W. All the
legal eagles were there, from Privy
Councillor Lord Morton of Henryton
downwards. Phillip Street was sealed off,
if you please, for the ceremony, and
detoured motorists, grumbling about this,
were given the information: “It’s the
Law!”
it it it
The festive occasion of the opening of
the palatial M.L.C. building at North
Sydney was voted such a success by the
850 men who were invited that the point
arises—why not a Ladies’ Day? Surely
women would appreciate the magnificent
view from the roof 500 ft. above the
Harbor, the air-conditioned orchids, the
“roofgarden” on the ground-floor, the
magnificent staff restaurant, etc., etc., just
as keenly as the men? Not to mention
the “do” the men had after the opening by
Prime Minister Menzies, who confessed
that the only flower he could ever
positively identify was the geranium.
V d- V
The wedding most buzzed-about during
the week took place a month ago, but was
announced only just before the couple left
on the Neptunia for 10 months abroad.
Mrs. Muriel Mac Kay, the bride, is well
known for her wonderful war-work in
France. London and Germany. Her
husband is French wool-buyer Charles
Martel. Somehow that name, “Charles
Martel,” struck a historical memory. Who
was he? According to a knowledgeable
colleague he was the grandfather of
Charlemagne and the man responsible for
saving Europe from the Arabs in the
eighth century. Quite a few military
associations that wedding—no?
Joan Hammond, who will have been
heard in Brisbane and Newcastle in the
role of “Tosco,” will sing also Des-
demona's part in the Elizabethan Theatre’s
production of “Otello.” The season, which
starts on August 31, will continue to
September 27 and will include “La
Boheme,” “The Bartered Bride” and
“Tales of Hoffman.”
The marriage of Olga Schuller, of
Bellevue Hill, to Albert Millard was of
interest to people in many parts of
Queensland, N.S.W. and New Zealand.
Olga is the daughter of the late Mr. and
Mrs. E. A. Schuller, add Albert the son
of the late Mr. and Mrs. E. Millard, of
Brisbane and Milton (N.S.W.). Ursula
Schuller attended her sister, who was
given away by her brother Clem. Mon-
signor Collender officiated at the cere-
mony at Holy Cross Church, Woollahra,
and was also present at the reception held
at the Hotel Australia,.
# # V
The guests-of-honor of the week with
the most magnetism were architects Joern
Utzon and Erik Anderson, who drew a
crowded house to the Royal Empire
Society’s at-home. Mrs. A. L. Walters
and Mrs. Norman Jenkyn were hostesses
at this party, which the opera-house
designers visited an hour or so before
flying off for their homeland. They were
given flower-decorated boomerangs so
that they would come back. They
promised to do so in six months’ time,
and hoped that the foundation-stone
would be laid within 18 months.
Saw at this party Doris Fitton, just
returned from adjudicating for the Arts
Council Drama Festival in the country.
Was full of praise for the work she saw,
especially for the Canberra Repertory
Society’s production of Strindberg’s “The
Father.” The finalists “playing off” this
week are the Wyong Drama Group
(“Mary Rose”—James Barrie); Mudgee
Dramatic Society (“Johnny Belinda”—-
Elmer Harris) and Tamworth Dramatic
Society (“Granite” —Clemence Dane).
it * ☆
Noted Tony Rafty paying a nice little
tribute to The Bulletin (in which he
made his artistic debut) at the opening
of his exhibition at David Jones’ Market
Street store during the week. Well-
known personalities beamed from the
walls—Margot Fonteyn with a smile as
big as herself, Dawn Fraser, Leontyne
Price and dozens of male notables.
A.B.C.’s Charles Moses was there in
person and picture, also Transport’s
Shoebridge and E. Ward, M.P., all quite
pleased with their pictures and probably
with themselves. The show will be open
for another week.
V- #
Home after two years abroad is Miss
Zora Cross, poet and author, who arrived
on the Leipsig during the week. Her
project overseas has been to gather
material for a Roman novel involving
much research. She has been mainly in
London and Rome and has come home
to write her book.
.V V #
At the monthly luncheon of the Society
of Women Writers discussion arose about
air-travel when Mrs. Constance Robert-
son was giving her talk “Around the
World in 104 Days.” Someone wanted
to know whether the price of the ticket
around the world included the return
fare. Probably had those ever-circling
satellites in mind.


“paper yabber” carried to town
on a cleft stick.
When Misery returned the
following week, two sticks of
the tobacco were missing, but
he vehemently denied that he
had pinched any. Boss was
not a trusting soul, and so the
next time Misery was sent to
town the “paper yabber”
carried instructions to the shop-
keeper to check the invoice.
Back came the dutiful Misery,
again short several sticks.
“Me no tak’ um,” he
insisted.
“You bin tak’ um, all right,”
retorted the boss. “Paper
yabber yabber longa me
Misery bin tak’ um four fella
sticks tobacco way out longa
bush.”
Misery muttered the oaths
of a righteous man unfairly
treated. “That one paper
yabber see um all about all
same Kurdaitcha. Me bin put
um paper yabber longa
ground, cover um plenty mob
stone, then me go longa way
paper yabber no see um me
tak’ um bacca. Then me come
back, tak’ um paper yabber,
walk longa wurlie belonga you,
gibbit longa you. What name
paper yabber see um me? Me
can’t know um dat one!”
task of the biblio-
grapher is usually not so
blithesome. Like the lexico-
grapher, he is what Dr.
Johnson called a harmless
drudge, kept to his thankless
task only by his sense of
acquisitiveness (I expect to get
15,000 items before publica-
tion) and the naive faith that
all of it, no matter how
seemingly trivial, will be of
some use to somebody—even
the knowledge that in 1837 the
Colonial Secretary recorded
the natives’ reluctance to eat
boiled oatmeal.
Most of the work is dreary
and discouraging ; 150 years of
incessant mea culpas to the
editor deploring the ill-treat-
ment of the aborigines—
especially when one sees no
improvement in their condi-
tions in all that time —is likely
to seem futile.
Still, like the tippler’s head,
the work does have its lighter
moments.
As one might suspect, the
silliest things are to be found
in the popular press, but even
the scholarly journals turn up
some beauts occasionally—
like the distinguished
periodical which in 19 19
soberly printed a learned
description, even to indecent
details, of a pre - Adamite
sculpture of a long-extinct
mammoth, but later had to
admit that the archaeologist in
question had failed to
recognise the “artifact” as a
naturally-formed chalk-cast of
the internal chambers of a
species of Mollusca.
The long view of the biblio-
grapher turns up skulduggery
as well as ignorance, though
“It may surprise you to know that I've spent a
considerable time up here in the Far North.”
anthropologists are among the
most credulous of mankind
when it comes to accepting the
protestations of unscrupulous
frauds —witness the Piltdown
hoax, and much more of the
sort.
On the whole, though, the
popular press is more depend-
able in ingenuousness, and has
the further advantage of lively
phraseology. One delightful
piece printed in 1897 tells of
“The Black and Bloody Back
Blocks: Australian Atrocities ;
Cruelties of Civilisation,” which
set a hot pace in outrageous
alliteration not outdone till
“Truth,” October 29, 1900,
told about “A Saturnalia of
savage slaughter” by the
“brutal Breelong blacks,” who
“horribly hacked,” “brutally
bludgeoned” and “horribly
hammered” some poor
innocents. The police were
suspect also —“peculiar pranks
cf the police push,” a “flaring,
flaming . . . fake.” There was
even a “slatternly slut”.. . .
No scholarly author would
perpetrate anything like that.
The 19th-century ethnological
prose style is more like that of
Mr. W. A. Wright, M.A., who
in 1880 coursed afield from the
aborigines to criticise the
worship of Moloch, which he
said, was “more inhuman and
revolting than that of Baal.”
Among these inhuman and
revolting rites, Mr. Wright
went on, “were human
sacrifices, purifications, and
ordeals by fire, devoting the
firstborn, mutilation, and vows
of perpetual celibacy and
virginity”— a fate worse than
death, indeed.
Australian writers on the
aborigines have been to a
very large extent synthesists
rather than analysts; very few
works are given over to
theoretical speculations. What
etiology there is seems to be
limited to finding explanations
for the material backwardness
of the natives.
Most amateur writers find
the cause to be simply deficient
mentality, though at least one
theoretician whom I have dis-
covered (unhappily, a n
American) suggested that the
decline of the Australian abo-
rigines is due to nothing more
than the fact that the egos
which would normally inhabit
their bodies through the
process of reincarnation have
passed to higher races
probably Californians, though
he didn’t specifically say so.
Early writers were loath to
allow the aborigines much
intelligence because that would
disqualify them as the Missing
Link —and until the discovery
of Australopithecus, Australia
was the best place to look for
this concatenary creature
the light was much better
here than down the street.
J. Moore Robinson, chief of
staff of the “Daily Post,”
stated in 1910 that it was not
impossible that “the original
Adam was an Australian
native”—a palatable bit of
chauvinism. Mr. Moore
Robinson submitted some evi-
dence from physical anthro-
pology, too: only the Aus-
tralian aborigine had a “sabre”
shinbone, only he had teeth
and blood like the anthropoid
apes.
His provenance gets a little
mixed-up, however, when fie
goes on to explain the
aboriginal practice of chest
cicatrisation as surgical opera-
tions to “brace the joints” and
get rid of fat, a trick they
learned from the Scythians, he
said—in the Dreamtime, no
doubt, though a certain John
Fraser in 1898 claimed the
aborigines were Hamites from
Chaldea. They could have
picked it up there, of course.
The most precious theory on
the aborigines, I think, was put
forward in the daily press of
Sydney only two decades ago.
One amateur anatomist found
aborigines with flabby
abdominal skin which, if
you didn't know better,
you might call vestigial
abdominal steatopygia, and
which, if you did, you might
call the results of stuffing them-
selves full of pilfered jumbuck ;
at any rate that particular
writer theorised that these were
the remnants of a lost
marsupial race.
ND then there are our
“ selfless Comrades, who
maintain that the Manifesto
did away with all “racist
nonsense” as group differences
in intelligence, and as for the
Australian aborigine—well, go
read Lewis Henry Morgan and
Lysenko ; the aborigine is in a
bad way not because of defi-
cient mentality but because of
deficient economics; he just
has to be taught to read Karl
Marx.
As a matter of fact, the
Australian aborigines have
responded quickly to the short-
cut-to-salvation philosophies.
In the 1840’s, when Karl Marx
was still poking about in the


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALKS —Is Divorce.
TO NORMAN HAROLD LUMSDEN late
of Batlow.—TAKE NOTICE that JOYCE
CHARM lON LUMSDEN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 949 of 1955 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 28th October 1957 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from' MESSRS. COLREAVY,
O’LEARY A- McGINTY, Solicitors, of 26
Bridge Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGIIAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Ix Divorce.
TO ALLEN JOSEPH FINE formerlv of
Rozelle.—TAKE NOTICE that DAWN
MARIA FINE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1187 of 1957 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under 5.19 (2) (a)
of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
4th of November 1957 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge
from AY. D. SCHRADER & DUDLEY,
113 Pitt Street, Svdney, New South
Wales.—J. DOUGIIAN, Registrar.
UN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO RICHARD ALLAN WARD late of
15 Dudley Street Paddington.—TAKE
NOTICE that VIOLET WARD hag filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2709 of 1957
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 28th day of October
1957 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MESSRS. MOLLOY
& SCHRADER. Solicitors, of 149
Castlereagh; Street, Sydney. J.
DOUG HAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO HAROLD RIEVSBY DEAN late of
Ingleburn.—TAKE NOTICE that IRIS
MARY DEAN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2460 of 1957 on th#
grounds of desertion for three years an 4
upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the Ist day of November 1957 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from CHARLES GRIFFITHS,
Solicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth Street,
SvdneV, New South Wales. J.
DOUGIIAN, Registrar.
lives in a good suburb and has
brought up a large family. His
neighbors regard him as a night
worker. He has unlimited
credit with the local trades-
people, and when he cracks it
he scrupulously pays up.
After 30 years of battling
night after night in that airless,
fuggy atmosphere of Thomo’s
he recently developed t.b. and
had to do a stretch in a sana-
torium. An occupational
disease?
“How are you, Johnny, in
front?”
“No worse trot of outs I’ve
ever had. Me doc. said I had
to give Thomo’s away, other-
wise in six months I’d be
playing swy with the Devil.
I'm playing baccarat, but it’s
tough. They’re all as smart
as I am. No shade of odds.
I’m a mass of hives from
nerves. I can’t sleep. I
gamble, you know.”
MANY people maintain
that Thomo’s is a social
and economic menace. But
you get a better go for your
dough than standing at some
rapacious poker - machine.
Thomo’s pennies are absolutely
dinkum. Try ringing in a nob
(double-header) or a grey
(double - taller) there. Oh,
dear!
If a dispute occurs over a
bet the “ringy” listens to the
evidence of both disputants
and their neighbors and then
makes a detached, judicial
decision. You don’t argue
back, either.
There have been many
tragedies from two-up obsessed
men. Homes, wives and busi-
nesses lost. An occasional
suicide. But, knowing human
frailty, Thomo’s has a tradi-
tion that a man can bar him-
self from the game.
“Say, Joe, Mum’s raising a
hell of a stink about me send-
ing all the wages off each week.
I’m gonna bar myself for a
year.”
No matter how much he may
plead he is not allowed in until
the year is up. No incorrigible
swy-addict, however, bars him-
self for all time.
Thomo’s is almost as old and
exclusive as any up-town,
Bligh Street club. New mem-
bers have to be recommended,
seconded, screened and flash a
fair-sized roll. No sheilas,
either. There is one major
difference. No Thomo's mem-
her ever recognises another
member outside the game.
British Museum, the Colonial
Secretary noted that the natives
of South Australia were dis-
inclined to work regularly, and
were demanding double wages
on holidays. Their flesh is
willing, but their spirit is weak ;
they have no persistence.
Also, the “Sydney Morning
Herald” of May 15, 1934,
reported the direct action of
some Western Australian native
laborers who demanded a rise
from ss. to 10s. a week, and
who went out on strike on a
Saturday to enforce their
claims. On Monday they were
back to work at the (fid rate,
having forgotten all about
Saturday's industrial dispute.
Or, again, the recent case
of the old fellow at the Umee-
warra Mission, near Port
Augusta, who was offered
tucker and housing and £2 10s.
a week for station work. “Dat
not basic wage,” he complained.
“Hurt my mates [who were
sprawled around his wifrlie] to
take less’n basic wage.” Several
weeks later he accepted a job
that paid more—£s ... £5 a
month, that is.
South Australian
Museum has on display a
curious testament to the weav-
ing together of old religions
and new materialism in the
aboriginal mind—a gin-bottle
totem!
In the early days of settle-
ment an empty Dutch gin-
bottle washed ashore on the
northern coasts and came into
the possession of the aborigines,
who, no doubt, had been
acquainted with its function,
for they set it up for worship
and the exercise of homeo-
pathic magic—revering it thus,
they believed, would cause the
bottle to increase and multiply.
The episode of the gin-bottle
points-up the notorious nesci-
ence of the aborigine in regard
to reproduction. The last word
in this matter should be left
to the waggish American
anthropologist, E. A. Hooton,
whose aberrant sense of
humor led him to christen his
unfortunate son “Newton,”
and to leave irreverent ethno-
logical poetry around where
/ ~ , ,
the authorship wou.d not be
blamed on him.
In his “On the Social Organi-
sation of the Arunta’’ Hooton
maintains that the abo. was
much too busy untangling kin-
ship systems to progress
materially, or even to under-
stand physiological paternity.
For what it is worth, which
doesn’t seem much, I might
add that Hooton published this
as the work of one “Dr. D. C.
Grell, of Kurnai College, Aus-
tralia.” “I print it in small
type,” he wrote, “because it
seems to me rather trivial”: —•
Under the spreading bluegum tree
the old Arunta squats,
What makes the gin ginniferate he
little cares nor wots;
His duty to his uncle’s aunt wholly
absorbs his thoughts.
What mammy totes to totem spots
he vaguely but surmises;
And yet he thinks he knows it all,
because he subincises.
He does not waste artistic taste in
building habitations,
He rather strains his microus brains
remembering relations.
He scares the gins with horrid dins
by whirling a churinga,
A woo’den thing tied to a string,
swung from his greasy finger.
Throughout his life he keeps one
wife, oft hospitably lent
To travelling cousins by the dozens
on family business bent.
Eugenic fear makes him adhere to
strict exogamy,
With sometimes, perhaps, a genial
lapse to promiscuity.
Then strive and wive. Old Platyr-
rhine, with Antipodal unction.
Though cicatrised and subincised,
you’ve made our science function I
WINTER SILENCE
Now love is not sung as easily
as dew is held in the hand ;
and silence is grief where the eloquent flowers
and birds flew over your secret land.
Rage, and you see distortion in a glass,
and desperate thought tearing a world apart;
but listen to the snow-white hush coming between
the fall and rise of the heart.
Rest and sleep to the pin-point drop of the seed,
and wake to the frost that flashes death at the sun.
Such messages are clear seen in a glass of silence,
then blurred in a depth where color and sound are
begun.
N.S.W.
Margaret Irvin.


a first-class picture of a bushfire, and
such exact landscape as: —
From thence a cattle-track, with
link to link,
Ran off against the fishpools, to the
gap,
.Which sets you face to face with
gleaming miles
Of broad Orara, winding in amongst
Black, barren ridges, where the
nether spurs
Are fenced about by cotton-scrub,
and grass
Blue-bitten with the salt of many
droughts.
But here again the better-quality
work cannot have the popular appeal
of “The Warrigal” or, of course, “The
Last of His Tribe”; and even though
the anguish of the widow in “A Death
in the Bush” brings Kendall closer to
true tragedy than “The Last of His
Tribe” or the terrible summary of his
own misfortunes, “On a Street,”
he still seems to have been born to
excel in sentimentality of one kind or
another —as, on a different and Some-
what higher plane, the excellent and
correct classical compositions of
Sullivan will never be assessed above
his comic operas. Certainly the verse-
satires, verse-obituaries and comic
pieces which Moore has been at pains
to dig up, previously uncollected, will
not alter this situation; nor the Sydney
“Herald” Prize Poem on the Sydney
International Exhibition:—
Far in the west, beyond those hills
sublime
Dirk Hartog anchored in the olden
time ...
as polished and as vapidly rhetorical
as most other prize-poems.
So it is largely as a “representative”
poet that Kendall will live if he lives
at all; representative, that is, of his
times; struggling to write poetry at a
time when Australia wanted it less
than even now; setting for his times,
between 1860 and 1880, a vision of and
an attitude to the bush which, Moore
points out, disappeared with the
beginnings of the balladists and “The
Bulletin”; beginning imperfectly what
it was left to a South African to finish;
more a part of history than of art.
Thus it is not surprising that Inglis
Moore’s beautifully concise story of
Kendall’s life—of poverty, after two
years at sea as cabin-boy. burdened
with the care of his mother and sisters,
despair, leading to several years of
drinking, the death of his little
daughter, estrangement for a time from
his wife, a happier time as a country
clerk and storekeeper, an inspector-
ship of forestry, and an early death,
aged 43—should give the reader more
respect for the poet than for his work.
Ronald McCuaig.
Stow's New Navel
Randolph Stow’s second novel, The
Bystander (Macdonald), continues the
scenes and (in their descendants a
generation or so later) the characters of
“A Haunted Land”: old families on
the land in Westralia.
Basically this is a short, simple and
searching little novel of a farmer’s
marriage to a beautiful New Australian
girl who has been a cook at a neighbor-
ing station. Class-distinctions make
one difficulty for the marriage; the long
and lukewarm understanding between
the farmer and a second-cousin make
another; and the great problem is that
the “Balt” girl’s previous harrowing
experiences in concentration-camps
have made her emotionally incapable
of love.
Stow’s handling of the situation
seems a little uncertain. It is not clear,
in precise terms, whether the girl
marries only to get a car and a home
and money or whether she really has
some affection for her husband and
genuinely hopes that time will cure her
psychological wounds. Nor is it
altogether clear whether the cynical
and embittered Patrick marries her for
love or merely in the hope of getting
a son to inherit his property.
But life itself is not always clear on
such points either; and if one feels
that Stow should have been more sure
in his own mind of the motivation of
his characters, and should have
brought them more emphatically to
their “moment of truth,” the problems
of the couple and their fluctuations
between love and hate are all very
interestingly described. The people are
alive, crisp, compelling; and the Wes-
tralian background, though Stow makes
his local color almost excessively
unobtrusive (what do they do on these
farms?), is also effective and appealing.
This clear-cut central story % is, how-
ever, complicated by the introduction
of a halfwit, Keithy Farnham, who is
in love with the Balt girl—without ever
quite knowing what love is about—and
is troubled by the conflict between his
affection for her and his lifelong
friendship with her husband.
Idiots can, of course, be useful in
the novel, as in the poetic drama. From
Lear and Ophelia to the divine rustic
simpletons of Theodore and John
Cowper Powys much has been done
with them: in the way of increasing,
by fantasy, the poetic content. But
they need careful handling, if they are
not to be merely dull or monstrous.
The hairy monster whom Stow kept
shut in a cage in “A Haunted Land”
was a mistake; a touch of undue
extravagance; and Keithy, if not
extravagant in the same way, is equally
a mistake. A great lumbering goof
like Steinbeck’s Lennie, he can only
be used to give a facile note of melo-
drama running through the novel:
whom is he going to strangle, and
when? And since, after many hints of
his dangerousness, Stow does not in
the end use him as a killer, but slides
him out of the story in a bushfire, he
really serves no useful purpose at all.
Stow means him as a symbol of
some kind; he is “the bystander,” not
involved in life, who perishes in an
ordeal by fire to prove the purity of his
love, while Patrick and his wife stand
embroiled in their complexities of
passion. But a halfwit, at least one
so much involved in hatred as Keithy,
is a poor symbol of purity; and these
blind, subhuman, unreal creatures,
capable of running in any direction, do
nothing to illuminate normal human
character, which is generally held to
be the purpose of good fiction.
This is an intriguing novel to read.
If it were Stow’s first book it would be
held quite as promising as was “A
Haunted Land.” But in this reviewer’s
opinion Stow will best fulfil his promise
when he gets rid of his halfwits. He
has all he needs for a high level of
drama in his perception of the
intensities of feeling that drive
ordinary people to love, hate and
struggle for property.
Sturt As a Fairy
J. K. Ewers's Who Rides on the
River? (Angus and Robertson), a novel
about Sturt's journey down the
Murrumbidgee and the Murray, has
been published for some months, and,
by mischance, was not reviewed on this
page when it first appeared. It is,
fortunately, of lasting interest: not so
much as a novel as for the new view it
presents of Sturt’s relations with the
aborigines.
The novel, as such, is readable
enough. It is light, free-moving,
animated by many adventures and also
by love-affairs and mutterings of
rebellion amongst the convicts. But it is
also rather naive; and, with characters
who do not quite come to life and a
note of resolute propaganda for Aus-
tralia, has something of the tone and
spirit of a book for boys.
But the view of Sturt amongst the
aborigines—which, judging by the fore-
word, was Ewers's chief reason for
writing the book—is captivating. “In
all three journeys,” says Ewers.
Sturt established harmonious rela-
tions with the aborigines and thus
safeguarded his own life and the lives
of those under his command. Never-
theless he was constantly on the alert
for possible treachery and....lived
in almost daily expectation of it
... .That not one of his men came to
harm, Sturt attributed to Providence.
There can be no doubt that his own
just and wise treatment of the natives
contributed greatly... .But Sturt had
no real insight into the minds of


RIBBONS IN HER HAIR
by DOROTHY LUCIE SANDERS
Author of “WATERFALL”
In this latest novel about the now famous Montgomery family the author
tells the story of the beautiful and tempestuous Laura, cousin of Theodora, who
is the storyteller. We meet the entire enchanting family, feel for them in their
ups and downs and are introduced to their Irish Cousin Danny who is to play
such a large part in the lovely Laura’s life.
Obtainable from all Booksellers
Retail Price in Australia 18/9d. (Postage extra)
HODOER AND STOUGHTON LIMITED
these people. To him they were
always “savages” . . .
Ewers’s explanation of the natives’
forbearance is that they regarded
George Macleay, Sturt’s companion, as
the reincarnation of one of their
mythical tribal heroes or demigods,
Nurrunderi. the Great White Spirit,
therefore, far from wanting to attack
the party, all of whom partook of this
mystical quality, they wanted to
welcome and worship them:—
Sturt could not know' that the
Wiimbaio had put on ceremonial
body-designs to welcome a great
myth-hero. He could not know that
the spears, so frightening to the white
men, were likewise a demonstration
of enthusiasm. Nor did he give a
second thought to the fact that at an
earlier camp the red-headed Macleay
....had been called “Rundi” and
that they had expected to find the
scar of a spear-wound on his thigh.
This is, of course, not a new contri-
bution to the general present-day
awareness of aboriginal beliefs, but
one has not previously seen it specifi-
cally applied to Sturt; and it gives the
most charming picture of these hard-
bitten explorers fnoving like spirits or
like fairies through the wild country
amongst the throngs of excited black-
fellows. It was a journey, perhaps,
veiy much like that of Cortes through
Mexico.
Never caring much for the average
historical novel, which too often is
merely a way of making truth insub-
stantial and the past unreal, this
reviewer wxvuld have preferred to see
Ewers’s theory in a straightforward
monograph, or as a foreword and com-
mentary to a new edition of Sturt’s
journals. But one can see why he was
tempted to make a novel of it; and,
besides what advantages this method
may have given him in the dramatisa-
tion of his scenes, at least he has closely
followed the diaries.
The Blade Shearer
Out of the past, because of the
published figures of the past, and now
your Red Page appreciation of John
Farrell’s “My Sundowner,” may I say
that it was the blade-shearers (through
“The Bulletin” and Angus and Robert-
son. as publishers) who gave Australian
literature the foundation on which it
rests today?
They did not write it, but they
carried it in their pockets when pub-
lished, no matter where they went. In
sheds outback, on farms, at home,
they read, they recited, they talked
their appreciation—an appreciation
that not only was a form of criticism
but which sold the books and built up
publishing and selling firms. They
were like the leaves of the trees singing
in the wind.
No Australia-wide radio network, no
channelled TV has done or is doing
in publicising Australian literature
what the bladp-shearers did. More
than that, they furnished half the
themes of their day, from mateship to
the saddle for pillow by night, from
the glass on the bar (of which I told
Henry Lawson in his early days: it
was a bush custom not known in the
city when I told Henry) to the rouse-
about and the ringer of the shed.
Ask W. H. Ogilvie and the pub-
lishers’ figures if all this is not true —
1 mention him though he is in Scotland,
because I think he and I are the only
two left of the old “Bulletin” writers
who are still doing active work and
still on the books of the A.J.A.
Mary Gilmore.
The Obscure Way: Bernard Martin
(Heinemann). The young officer
who has accepted an M.C. for an
action led by his sergeant joins a paint-
firm, marries the owner’s daughter,
hobnobs with artists and poets of the
’twenties, gets mixed-up in an applica-
tion for a patent which turns out a
failure, walks out on a company-
promoting scheme rigged to retrieve
the backers’ fortune, is cursed and dis-
carded by his wife, and returns to his
old person-father to explain that he
will return the medal and begin again.
A good picture of the home and office
lives of those years.
LESCHENAULTIA
To Katharine Susannah Prichard
Cavemed under the mushroom cloud,
The doom towering to blackening
strife,
I stared at the shadows, stricken numb
As the cancered flesh awaiting the
knife,
Till out of the West from your hand
there flew
Ecstasy’s flower, this burning blue.
Handsel of sky fallen for warm
Remembrance of heaven, token of sun,
This shadowless blaze, this miracle
glow
Comes from eternal fires that run
Down the aeons uncoiling the bud.
Surging in mind and prodigal blood.
You and the leschenaultia glow
As a blue flame of hope, a fire
Smiting the darkness with double sign
Of skyward beauty and eager desire
Quick in the veins of man and earth,
Cascading in love to endless birth.
This leafless day, you cry, must yet
Be shelved in time’s deep catacomb;
And who shall tell what petallage,
Beyond this transient monochrome,
A.C.T.
Will flare through unaffrightened days
Scarlet with joy, and gold in praise?
You are the lover of life where the sap
Ascends in the karri giants, flows
Through the hot leaves to the magnet
sun,
And leaps in Red’s strong pulse as he
goes
To his mate, while the birds in singing
* bright
Channel the summer to streams of
delight
Yours is the passionate heart, the
dream
Of justice, and tongue of pity to tell
Of the dark pain of Coonardoo,
The clear fidelity drawn from the well
In the shadow, and crucified limbs that
lay
Like the charred sticks by the ashes
grey.
One with the people, one with the land,
You, the maker, shape the power
Of redemptive fire. O timeless flame
Whose image burns above this hour,
Yours is the vision to passion grown
Beyond the bare, unsocketed bone.
T. Inglis Moore.


<3
0
V
kJ
w
There's no guessing this Father's Day
Hell know
T,
you re giving
him the
Best
G UARAN TE E D
TITAN
CHISELS
SALES LEADER IN AUSTRALIA!
mi «
J
1
I
JLf Dad s a “man about home”, there’s
every possibility he does his own little
hit of woodwork. In fact, he’s probably
thinking of fixing that annoying cup-
board door which keeps jamming.
No matter whether he’s a regular “do-
it-yourselfer ’ or whether it’s just a
case of being “mum-shamed” into
fixing cupboard doors, he’ll need Titan
Chisels. Whatever the job, there’s a
Titan Chisel made especially for it.
Titan Chisels make gift-selecting easy,
too! There's the complete Titan range
priced from 7/5 each, or, as it’s a
Father s Day thought, we’d suggest the
boxed sets of matched chisels “Four
of a Kind” from 44/9, or the “Titan Set
©£ Six” from 64/5 (as illustrated).
m
by.
Z*?4M
4*
The*e are a few of the features that Dad
would look for if he were buying chisels:
★ A long-lasting cutting edge.
★ Expertly hardened and tempered blades.
★ Forged from finest quality tool steel.
★ Seamless-steel tube ferrules.
tA" Hairline trueness.
★ Handles of selected and seasoned timber.
★ Each chisel individually factory-tested
and . . .
★ A complete guarantee against any defects in
materials and workmanship with each chisel.
Titan Chisels will give Dad all this.
s
m
&
Say, Dad! Leave this page open
in a handy spot around the
house to let the family know
you really need Titan Chisels.
