

/
i>epP elt *
SOLERO
WEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
’'The Syndicate”— page 32
Wednesday, July 24, 1957
Price l/«
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
MARY ARDEN'S CIDER MILL AT WILMOCOTE
THc district around Stratford-upon-Avon is known as the
Shakespeare Country, and many visitors regard it as the most
characteristic part of England. It is a countryside bounded on the
south by the Cotswolds, the Vale of Evesham, the Edgehills, and
on the north bv the great city of Birmingham. Here are to be seen
such attractive towns as Henley-in-Arden, Chipping Campden, Broad-
way and Evesham in a countryside which is predominantly rural
with its farms and market gardens, scattered woodlands, parks and
orchards.
Unspoiled villages and hamlets preserve the atmosphere of rural
life, while fine old mansions and churches recall the history of
former times. Among the villages within a few miles of Stratford-
on-Avon which have traditional claims to Shakespearian associations
are . Petworth, Long Marston, Temple Grafton, Wixford, Exhall,
Bedford-on-Avon, Snitterfield and Wilmcote.
Wilmcote, which is four miles from Stratford, is famous as the
home of Mary Arden, Shakespeare’s mother. The Tudor farmhouse
which belonged to the Arden family is preserved here by the
Shakespeare Birthplace Trust, and the farm buildings are used as a
museum of farming and rural life. Here, too, is a relic of former
days in the shape of a cider mill, which is shown in the accompanying
illustration.
The old cider mill at Wilmcote is one of the best examples of
its kind still remaining in England, and nearby is the old dovecote
which held 637 birds. In the 16th century, when the Ardens occupied
Wilmcote Farm, the birds were kept to provide fresh meat during
the winter months.
No. 359: the Homeland Series by the! House of Seppelt


BOOKHCNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0.,, Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
BEFORE THE CROWS
FLEW BACKWARDS
South Australia comes to its cen-
tenary of responsible government this
year, and Douglas Pike, Reader in His-
tory at the University of Adelaide, has
celebrated the occasion with a volume
of over 200,000 words, Paradise of
Dissent (Longmans). It surveys South
Australian history from 1829, when the
jrecipe for the new colony began to be
mixed, till the year responsible govern-
ment was established.
South Australia was born in idealism
with the Wakefieldites as accoucheurs;
but companies which begin life, as the
South Australian Company did, with
an “avowed policy” to “combine profit
with civilisation and Biblical truth,”
who see in themselves “not grasping
traders but enlightened English mer-
chants” seeking “to engraft upon their
commercial enterprise the moral and
religious prosperity of the community,”
are apt to bring every requisite but
tolerance and patience to the task and
to feel on first contact with a weak
political world that they have stepped
onto a wet banana-skin on a slippery
pavement and to wake-up after the sub-
sequent slide without firm ground under
their feet and with bankruptcy all
round them.
South Australia, in the words o£ the
“Southern Australian” in 1839, was
born “to be free and upon her banners
was inscribed liberty and peace,” but its
inhabitants, pouring-in in hasty streams
to stake claims in what was evidently
going to be a paradise to end all para-
dises, discovered that they had come
under a Government which “in no
respect differs from the Government
of the penal colonies”; one under
which land-grab, would-be monopoly,
idealism, radicalism, absenteeism,
Stiggins-like piety and kindergarten
theory were all mixed up in a Donny-
brook.
Some of the idealism which had been
behind the original conceptions sur-
vived—or said it did—but even that
seems to have become perverted in the
all-round shindy, and the general con-
fusion was much magnified by the
overlay of struggle for religious free-
dom and equality.
The only undefiled objective to
which the founding fathers did cling
unanimously was freedom from the
convict “taint” which supposedly
besmirched the other colonies. But,
however technically free South Aus-
tralia might remain from it, there soon
were incursions into the pure air
round the gulfs by eager hordes of
adventurous lags from the eastern
settlements.
Adelaide also suffered from “the
contaminating society” of the sailors
of the different ships, who, coming on
shore, appeared to have no thought
but that they should gratify their
“brutalising propensity to the vice of
drunkenness.”
“Old convicts and villainous charac-
ters were the only ones who would go
into new districts where no restraint
of laws existed,” causing poor Hind-
marsh, the Governor, to mourn that
“such a frontier as ours towards New
South Wales and Port Phillip could
not be effectually guarded [against the
influx of ruffians] by a cordon of ten
thousand men.” About the time Henry
Parkes arrived in Australia the
authorities blessed the “slump which
caused the grog-shops to close” and
under the influence of which “even the
brothels became quieter.”
Nevertheless Adelaide became so
depraved by the end of the hungry
’forties that a set of rogues who came
to the colony for the express purpose
from naughtier parts of Australia set
out systematically to commit burglaries
while the pious citizens were in church
praying for the destruction of their
political, commercial and governmental
adversaries. In September, 1851, the
manager of the South Australian Bank
claimed that there was “a desperate
gang of about ninety burglars and
ruffians troubling Adelaide, in spite of
the terrible severity of Judge Crawford
at his first Quarter Sessions.”
It is astounding that the colony made
so much progress amid all this turbu-
lence and dissension. But 15 years
after the first settlers landed it had a
total population of 66,000; a million-
and-a-quarter sheep ; and total exports
at £580,000 had more than quadrupled
in six years. There were nearly 3000
cultivators of the land producing—inter
alia—6Bl,ooo bushels of wheat a year.
Self-government arrived when the
colony was only 21 years old and with
a population of under 110,000.
Adelaide had a population of 10,000,
and round it were being hawked the
shares of the City and Port Railway
Company, while the “Register” was
preparing “the public mind for the
approaching consummation of our
glorious Constitution.”
It is an amazing story which high-
lights the breathtaking swiftness with
which this continent has been
developed from emptiness. It is also a
dynamic story as far as South Aus-
tralia was concerned. It is difficult to
recognise in its “lusty youth,” full of
the dust of dissension, the Adelaide of
later years, “sedate, gentle and unenter-
prising” and so conservative that even
its crows were reputed to fly backwards.
It has now apparently been piloted
out of this lassitude into staid progres-
siveness by a modern member of a
clan, one of whose early representatives,
a veteran of Waterloo with a
dragoon’s pension, was a leading light
of the Baptist Church in the days when
“Socinianism and close membership”
were issues which could start a free
fight any day in Hindley-street.
Mr. Pike’s volume is set up and
printed in Adelaide by the Griffin Press
and exhibits the fact that Adelaide can
now', in the matter of bookmaking,
compete with the other capitals and the
world at large.
The book is an ambitious piece of
work, primarily for the fairly advanced
student. But it is the kind of work
which is needed by teachers of Aus-
tralian history, even though the know-
ledgeable ones will find not much that
is new to them in its more important
phases, or even agree that the last word
in interpretation or exposition of fact
has been said in it. It sets out in
orderly and well-compartmented divi-
sions a basic account of history both
social and political, as seen by the
author, a class of overall survey which
is sadly lacking among Australian
historical textbooks. The will-to-write
with most Australian historians is
greater than the will to intensive
research and careful use of authorities.
This book is obviously the product of
long and careful labor and carries an
extensive table of reference-notes,
mostly to official and journalistic
sources, though rather astonishingly it
lacks a bibliography which would have
been useful to the student.
Not So Deserta
The reader who cautiously opens a
new travel-book expecting yet another
country to be thrown at him rock by
rock or, in this case of the Arabian
desert, grain by grain, may be reassured
about A Fool Strikes Oil by Barbara
Toy (Murray).
A Sydney girl who specialises in
deserts (“A Fool on Wheels” is about
a trip from Tangier to Baghdad, and
“A Fool in the Desert” about travels in
Libya), Miss Toy has a curious reserve
for a travel-writer; she seems rather
to repel experience than to seek it, and
by limiting her curiosity to what
interests her, and not to what she thinks
you ought to know, she preserves the
pleasure and freshness of her observa-
tions.
Thus, when she meets us at Kuwaif
at the top of the Persian Gulf, her
main interest in the oil-wells that have
made those poor Arab pearl-fishers
{Continued on page 58)


It’s still Fordson Major that gives
most for your money in
- asicf/wore ptact/cQ/pomt, -too /
r °*e,
. .’’ ACTO ' »««,
’ * w
higher Torque for
More ‘LUGGING* POWER!
AMPLE POWER TAKE-OFF
CAPACITY!
«SSSS
FROM
vt. o** 0 ** ;;7u.u
ever*
4
o o
At lowest cost, Fordson Major gives you more usable and
more economical O«H*V* diesel power than any other tractor
Effortless engine flexibility under normal loads
and ample capacity to put on the pressure in
really heavy pulls that’s what Fordson Major
offers you! This O.H.V. Diesel designed
specially for modern tractor work develops
extra power at drawbar, belt and P.T.O.—and
transforms more of your fuel power into work
power. Add 6-speed transmission and work-
sized wheel and tyre equipment to this all-job
power and you have three of the many reasons
why Fordson Major is your best buy. And it’s
a buy that means lower capital investment!
(hfiiklf**
FORDSOM
MAJOR
Harder working and better buying are the reasons
why Australian farmers use more Fordsons than
any other tractor .
SEE YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD
MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
FMPBS
COME IN AND SEE HOW GOOD A DEAL WE’LL MAKE WITH YOU!
: 11


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 24, 1957
Vol. 78—No. 4041
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
I7EAD OFFTCr: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queens and : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings {apposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
LEGACY COMES OF AGE
THE annual meeting of the Sydney
Legacy Club and the N.S.W. annual
Legacy conference mark the end of the
first generation of the movement’s
existence on an Australian, rather than
a local, status.
Legacy was the brain-child of that
great Australian soldier Sir John Gelli-
brand, whose missionaries—(Sir) Stan
Savige, (Sir) Thomas White and (Sir)
Frank Selleck —were mainly instrumen-
tal in establishing the Melbourne club
in 1923. The Sydney club was founded
at meetings held between June and
August, 1926.
The objective was, in the words of
the charter which constitutes the
authority of any Legacy club to
operate, “the care of the dependants of
comrades who served their country in
war and who gave their lives or health,”
and particularly “safeguarding the
interests of the children” of the fallen,
including “their mental, moral, voca-
tional and physical welfare.” In respect
of these duties, the band of returned
Servicemen who founded the first clubs
“accepted the legacy of fallen com-
rades,” and they and their successors in
the 44 clubs which now function in Aus-
tralia and the one functioning in Lon-
don have done a magnificent job as
executors.
The pioneers, fired by the dictum
that “personal effort is the main essen-
tial,” in their day carried the whole
burden on their shoulders; but the
enormous growth of the movement has
now made this impossible, and the
community at large provides the main
part of the present financial require-
ments, while the 4000 “Legatees”
throughout Australia—judges, doctors,
dentists, lawyers and business and pro-
fessional men—have to be content to
serve their ideals by giving intensive
personal voluntaiy service and seeing
to it that whatever money is raised is
applied directly to the purposes for
which it is subscribed to the last pos-
sible penny, and as nearly free as is
feasible of collection and administra-
tion costs.
This is done everywhere in Legacy,
of which the feature is the unremitting
work of individual members who are
pledged to donate their own time to
Legacy work on a self-sacrificing scale.
The “advisor” system under which
every Legatee is bound to act personally
as a sort of substitute father to war-
orphaned families, helping in their
business and educational and financial
problems, taking to one of the 30 or
so committees which normally function
in metropolitan clubs the matters which
he cannot handle, is the operating
principle.
The interest of every widow is safe-
guarded; the things her husband would
have done to promote the care and
development of the children—to see
that they were housed, educated,
trained for a vocation, settled in life —-
are attended to.
Every child taken into Legacy in
Sydney, for example, is medically
examined, by specialists if necessary,
and the progress of its health and
growth watched. Every child has the
benefit of a regular dental regimen
provided by the Legacy clubs. Hun-
dreds in a city like Sydney attend the
physical-culture classes every week.
The handcraft classes, hobbies exhibi-
tions, talent-quests, sports-meetings and
picnics, the expeditions to country
stations all absorb the personal effort of
thousands of voluntary workers
throughout the Commonwealth every
year and pay dividends in the produc-
tion of healthy young Australians with
a sound and self-respecting outlook
and a self-confidence which they could
not have had if they had been left
orphaned to fend for themselves.
Legacy as a co-operative fatherhood
has in the past generation done a great
service, the value of which is almost
beyond computation, to the community
at large, and one which is fully acknow-
ledged by the Repatriation Department,
Child Welfare Departments and every-
body who has seen its operations in
perspective.
One of the difficulties which Legacy
has had to face is that, rightly, it has
always insisted that it is not a charit-
able organisation: it is a vast family of
the fighting services exercising the
principles of mateship with those who
did not come back, or who have died
since the wars after serving abroad.
It is Legacy theory that every mother
and child registered with Legacy is a
member of an organisation on equal
terms with Legatees; their subscriptions
have been paid by the death of their
natural breadwinner and protector.
This outlook for many years
prevented clubs from being registered
under the Charities Act in N.S.W. and
under appropriate legislation elsewhere
so as to enable supporters to benefit by
taxation concessions. Even now Legacy
clubs do not register in N. S. Wales.
But Legacy has, with variations of
method according to States, established
bodies which collect tax-free funds
which the clubs operate for specific
purposes coming within the scope of
legislation protecting philanthropic
work. These are applied for educa-
tional purposes, health, relief in cases
of hardship, and in other ways, supple-
menting repatriation benefits and pro-
viding services not otherwise provided;
but they are not applied for such enter-
prises as Legacy regards as comprising
its more intimate and personal service.
It was envisioned when Legacy was
founded a generation ago that its life
would be limited and that it would be
wound-up as soon as the children of
those who had fallen in World War I
had passed through adolescence.
The need to take over the families
of comrades who died after returning
to Australia and the prospect ahead
that many war-widows would need
increasing care soon, however, showed
the founders of the movement that it
would have a career of at least a
generation. WoTd War II made it clear
that its life would probably be extended
for another fifty years. Indeed, an
actuarial calculation at present plots the
peak year of the demand on its services
as round 1965 or shortly afterwards,
20 years after the end of World War 11,
and anticipates that there will be a
period of intense activity up to 1980.
Whereas before World War II
Legacy’s charges were the widows and
orphans whom it sought out, the posi-
tion now is that its prospective benefi-
ciaries come to Legacy naturally as a
right.
Certain it is that its financial bur-
den will continue to become heavier for
the next two decades, and particularly
through the increasing number of
widows of the men of World War I
who need its protection and help and
through the fact that the families of the
men of World War II tend to be larger
than those of the Diggers of World War
I. Where in its initial years the move-
ment normally expected to look after
families of perhaps two children, now
the average family is likely to be three
or four.
It is a pity it does not get more
organised large-scale help.
A shilling-a-bale levy on wool—tax-
deductible —would scarcely be missed
by the grazing industry and would put
Legacy clubs everywhere on a safe
foundation, when added to other
support.


CRACK IT OPEN NOW, SON!


PLAIN ENGLISH
Figures in Queensland
In assessing the probabilities of a
change of Government at a general elec-
tion it is customary to calculate the
percentage of swing required to bring
this about. In next week’s Queensland
election, however, the deciding factor
will not be the swing from Labor to
Opposition, but the degree of the split
between the two Labor factions. With
first-past-the-post it would be quite pos-
sible foe, the Opposition to secure a safe
majority without receiving any more
votes than they did last year when they
won only 24 seats out of 75.
With a split Labor vote and the
Country party and Liberals more closely
knit than ever before it is well-nigh im-
possible for the Opposition to lose any
of the seats it holds at present. These,
therefore, can be ignored, confining the
survey to the 49 seats held by Labor—
-25 by Gair’s Q.L.P. and 24 by Duggan's
A.L.P.
Take the Nash electorate as a sample.
This seat is held by G. B. Kehoe
(Q.L.P.), who at the last election polled
56 per cent, of the votes cast. Conceding
the Country-party candidate, A. M.
Hodges, the same percentage of votes as
last time (44 p.c.), this means that Kehoe
(or his A.L.P. rival) will have to collect
79 p.c. of the combined Labor, vote to
win the seat. That’s rather a tall order.
Labor-held seats in the 56 p.c. category
are:
Q.LP. A.L.P.
Nash Buranda
Nundah Kelvin Grove
Windsor ■ Norman
Condamine Hinchinbrook
Somerset
Mulgrave
Roma
Rockhampton
There are Independents in the field in
Roma, Rockhampton, Buranda and
Hinchinbrook, but only in the last of
these, where the freelance is last year’s
Liberal candidate, is this likely to have
any significance.
Carnarvon gave Lands Minister Hilton
(Q.L.P.) 58 p.c. of its votes last time.
On that basis he will need 73 p.c. of the
Labor votes on August 3. Seats in this
class are:
Q.L.P. AX.P.
Carnarvon Mackay
Bulimba Flinders
Fortitude Valley
Sandgate
Flinders is held by Frank Forde, whose
position is not improved by the presence
of an Independent Labor candidate.
Seats in which Labor received up to
60 p.c. of the votes in 1955 are:
Q.L.P. A.L.P.
Belyando Brisbane
Carpentaria Mt. Gravatt
Merthyr North Toowoomba
Keppel Cairns
South Brisbane Mourilyan
Independents are standing for two of
these —Keppel and Mourilyan. In the
others the sitting member requires 67 p.c.
of the combined Labor votes to retain
his seat.
Personalities and the loyalty of local
Labor branches to the sitting member
(A.L.P. or Q.L.P.) will make profound
differences in the percentages in the
various electorates, but no sitting member
in any of the seats mentioned can regard
himself safe. Indeed, some of those
whose score was above 60 p.c. last year
have good reason to be worried.
Australia's Opportunity
Australia missed its opportunity for
great industrial progress and economic
expansion after the end of World Wtr 11.
Our productivity was too low, and we
couldn’t deliver the extra goods that the
world was clamoring for. Even our
woollen-textile industry could do little
more than cope with home demand ; then
by 1951 the world was overproducing
these things.
The 40-hour week, from the beginning
of 1948, was a limiting factor in our pro-
ductivity. We have never really recovered
from it. It has made our costs at least
10 p.c. higher than they need be and it
ALUMINIUM AND
POWER—page 20
has been a major factor in disrupting our
transport services.
At the present moment Australia is
being given a second chance. There are
possibilities of another great mineral era
in the Commonwealth. Our steel pro-
duction is growing also.
But we shall have to work hard and
intelligently to make the most of this
opportunity. A speculative boom will
mean nothing. What we want, in this
underdeveloped country, is a boom in
production. That, in the long-run, is what
will make wages worth more, living more
comfortable for all, and the whole
economy more stable and secure.
One thing that would help the new
mineral industry as much as anything
would be special taxation consideration
in the early years of a producing mine.
Canada has been careful to make a
number of vitally useful concessions to
new mines, and the result has been a
valuable contribution to Canada’s present
dazzling industrial expansion.
Australian mines and industries need
greater consideration from Canberra
than do Canadian enterprises from
Ottawa. Australia hasn't the abundant
and cheap hydroelectric power with
which Canada is blessed. We have to
develop our country the harder way. But
the way need not be made unnecessarily
hard by taxation arrangements which suit
only departmental convenience in
Canberra.
Anti-sabotage Defence
The behavior of various key unions is
making it obvious that a phase of defence
which is being neglected is anti-sabotage
organisation.
The regulation-strikes and the rolling-
strikes, the sectional strikes by small
bands of key personnel, invariably happen
in unions whose leadership has a strong
Communist ingredient.
The most alarming factor is that they
are all in unions which vitally affect
defence.
Outside the heavy industries, and unions
like the Sheet-metal Workers, which
federally are Communist-led, and the
A.E.U., which professes not to be Com-
munist-controlled but which has so much
Communist influence behind it that the
Reds run its policies and decide its
actions, there are the Federal A.RiU.,
practically headed by a prominent and
arrogant Communist in Comrade Brown ;
the Wharflaborers, whose leadership is
openly Communist and openly run by the
Central Committee of the Communist
party ; the Seamen, run by a Communist
secretary; the Transport unions with a
large section of Communist leadership,
and an even bigger Communist under-
ground ; and the Postal Workers.
There are a few others.
It is startling to consider what might
happen if war were to break out with
the Communist bloc. These key bodies
could paralyse the country on false
excuses which have nothing to do with
the issues of war. Using the technique
employed by Thornton in World War 11,
they could demand higher wages, preach
to the soft-heads that war is the toilers’
opportunity to squeeze the employer—
“ Don’t fight the employers’ war for him,
profit by it.”
Communists in the Post Office could
form a spy-system without parallel apart
from their power of sabotage.
Strikes like the Sydney bus-mechanics’
go-slow strikes are really practice-runs for
this sort of thing, and “the biggest strike
in history” now being planned by the
conscienceless saboteurs in the G.P.O.
throughout Australia provides the Com-
munists with valuable experience in
technique and enables them to write their
war-book.
The Commonwealth and State Gov-
ernments are both lacking in their defence
duty in allowing the power of the plotters
behind these illegal proceedings to grow.
They should come down like a ton of
bricks on them, and at the same'time
begin to develop some public relations
with their employees. At present, the
Communists have a clear propaganda
field in dealing with the workers
concerned.
Hard Commonsense
Mr. Harold Macmillan told the House
of Commons that a complete ban on
nuclear weapons would only be possible
of enforcement if the total past pro-
duction of fissionable material could be
accounted for and audited. He added that
in his opinion this was not possible.
He admitted, however, that it was
possible to police future production “if an
adequate inspection system” could be
agreed on “ —and made effective,” and
said that the Western disarmament pro-
posals would “test the sincerity of the
Kremlin.”
The “ifs” in the matter are the vital


words in the statement of the disarma-
ment case.
The White Paper tabled in the House
of Commons last week showed that the
first “if” to be surmounted is at the very
starting-point of agreement. “If” the
Powers could agree what should be in a
“partial” disarmament agreement, then
they would be able to agree to take the
first step. But they haven’t agreed on
what should be in it.
Then, should they agree, the next step
would be to agree on the basic method
of inspection and how it should be carried
out, and by whom. If it is to be handled
by the kind of body which usually does
the work of U.N.—whose abject failure
is fully advertised by the very fact that
a five-Power discussion is needed outside
the normal U.N. agencies—it would be
no inspection at all.
If there is inspection, based on agree-
ment to cease production of fissionable
materials for war purposes, it is difficult
to believe that any country would be mad
enough to accept the belief that in the
vast Communist bloc, embracing about
a fourth of the habitable world, the core
of which is Russia and China, any inspec-
tion could be effective. Or if it was, that
the cost would not be so great and the
supervision itself so searching and
intensive that it would invade the
sovereignty of the country under inspec-
tion.
With defence Services and departments
in the West honeycombed, as they
frequently are, with fellow-travellers and
Communist spies, the main chance seems
to be that whatever Russia agreed to it
would set out to sabotage.
It would be quite in keeping with
Russian technique to make an agreement,
go ahead with it and then suddenly pro-
duce and use of a load of bombs with the
admission, “Yes. We have been produc-
ing bombs all along, but we would have
been fools if we had not. We knew that
we were going to be double-crossed, so
we made sure. And we now have the
most certain admissions from within the
State Department of Washington that we
are right. So bang goes U.S.A.”
They have done this sort of thing in
international relations a dozen times.
Anybody who would trust them after
the attacks on Finland and Hungary
and the impudent handing-over to
Mao of Japanese arms in Manchuria,
obtained by agreement with, among
others, Chiang Kai-shek, deserves all he
gets.
Monk end the Wily Chinee
It is to be hoped that the Commonwealth,
or somebody, will declare a closed season
over Mr. A. E. Monk, because it is
obvious that he is a genius whom this
country can ill afford to lose, with a mind
as swift and comprehensive as Professor
Messel’s famous calculator Silliac and a
discernment which is almost supernatural.
Mr. Monk, as head of the A.C.T.U.,
led a delegation of three trade-union
officials and his wife to China, which is a
large polyglot country with an area as
big as Australia at least (leaving out the
primitive west, which adds another
million square miles), inhabited by round
600 million people.
Mr. Monk is an Australian and it is
doubtful whether, if he heard two Chinese
talking, he could tell which was a
Cantonese and which a northern native or
a Manchu. He was in China a while, six
weeks of which was spent in hospital, but
he has come back able to tell Australia that
he and his fellow-delegates were “allowed
to go wherever they liked,” and that, not
speaking a word of Chinese apparently
among the lot of them, they were able
to establish that:
(a) it was “amazing to see the progress
made in eight years” since Mao took over,
though what his standards of measurement
are he does not state. Throughout China,
he says, “social services, housing, hospitals,
education and agricultural development
have all been put on a firm footing”;
( b ) China’s only danger was that it was
trying to get too many factories up too
quickly and might overreach itself;
(c) private capitalists are operating in
China;
id) after a tour of 16 industrial cities and
districts he is "convinced of the sincere
effort of the Chinese Government to improve
conditions and wages”;
(e) there is no doubt that the people of
China accepted the programme of the
Government irrespective of class or political
leanings, and the Government’s "recent
decision to encourage freedom of expression
and criticism indicated that it wanted to
use this medium to gauge the people’s
reactions to its acts”;
(/) while everybody associates the Chinese
Government with Communist administra-
tion, actually only 54 p.c. of members of the
Congress are Communists.
In fact, everything is lovely. The only
things that militate against Mr. Monk’s
submissions are that the last Budget
report made it clear that China was still
largely dependent on Russia for technical
know-how —and being heavily subsidised
in cash and goods—and that the sums
A PEOPLE WITHOUT
A NAME—page 36
actually spent could not have touched the
fringe of putting anything in that vast
spread of country or even in one or two
of its largest cities on a “firm footing.”
Also, since Mr. Monk made his tour
the objective of the Government —which
is Communist to the core, with nobody
in authority who is not a high official of
the party —in asking for criticism and
expressions of opinion about its acts was
clear.
It was merely following the old plan of
Moscow of trapping its critics into the
open, so that they could be liquidated—as
the gentle Mao admitted, while Mr. Monk
was actually in China, that large numbers
of inconvenient citizens had been. Since
its invitation to free speech, the Govern-
ment has issued another announcement
that anybody in China who is disloyal to
Communist-party policies is a traitor and
will be dealt with accordingly. Three
Ministers, indeed, have apologised
abjectly for having differed from the
Communist line.
After his visit to China, Mr. Monk
must have a leg about as long as
Eddie Ward’s tongue.
Utah Again
[From- “Collins Street”]
Utah Construction Corporation, which
has gone through other tenderers tor
great-scale work in Australia in recent
years like one of its own bulldozers, has
now won the contract for the £2,500,000
King Street bridge over the Yarra—a
vehicular and tramway overpass and a
low-level bridge—and an elevated road
into South Melbourne.
Making the announcement of Utah's
successful tender, Sir Thomas Maltby,
Minister for Public Works, said it w'as
the lowest satisfactory tender. It was
the second-highest in cost, in fact, but
outstripped the others in time with an
estimated building-period of 28 months
and, most importantly, undertook to hold-
up Flinders Street traffic for only eight
months, compared with the nearest com-
petitor’s sixteen months.
Utah (now Utah Australia, Ltd.) won
from seven competitors who submitted
14 tenders, and will add this bridge to
the vast (£24-miilion) job on the Eildon
Weir, Cairn Curran Dam, contracts for
the Hydroelectric Commission in Tas-
mania and Mt. Isa Mines, the Common-
wealth ammunition-factory at St. Mary’s
(N.S.W.), and the widening of Lake Vic-
toria’s inlet channel to assist in
controlling floods.
The new job will be minor in compari-
son to the rooting of the Jolimont railway-
yards, for which the estimated costs of
the more attractive plans begin at £15
million, and which is Utah’s chief future
interest in, at least, Victoria.
Since January, a syndicate of Chinese
millionaires, an Australian company with
overseas interests and two British com-
panies have made various proposals to
the Victorian Government for the roofing
of the railway-yards. Proposals have
been made to various Governments for
60 years, but it is only in the last few
years that the results of the work of deter-
mined men anxious to get their job done
have become surprisingly apparent.
Dr. in the House
Some unkind critics —a few of them in
his own A.L.P.—are suggesting that when
the counting is over in the next Federal
poll Dr. Herbert Vere Evatt will be with-
out a seat. This might be wishful think-
ing, but unless the Doc. does something
soon to manoeuvre himself into a safe
electorate it could be painful fact.
The first shot in a desperate party bid
to get him something more promising
than Sydney-suburban Barton misfired
when 72-year-old Rowley James, the
ex-coalminer and M.H.R. for Hunter
these last 29 years, refused to vacate the
seat for his leader.
(i Continued on page 13)


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
I’VE given up moaning about low wages
and high cost of living since an old
chap came into the Bank and handed me
his pension-cheque to cash. His hand
shook as I counted the money into it.
Then his fingers closed tightly round the
eight pound-notes, and he looked up at
me and said softly, but very sincerely,
“The world is mine! Thank you, sir,
thank you!” ... I didn’t realise so little
could mean so much. —“Tobe.”
“Arpee”: When economic necessity
compelled an artist friend to emerge from
his attic and take a full-time job with
a big advertising agency, the question of
what to wear was settled early in the
interview. Corduroy-slacks and rope-
sandals wouldn’t do. Acting on instruc-
tions, he spent an advance the Boss had
given him, on a neat, single-breasted
charcoal-grey suit and a pair of good-
quality brogues. When he presented him-
self on Monday morning, he looked for
all the world like an alert, well-groomed
business executive —or would have if he’d
worn socks and a pair of braces instead
of the grubby piece of twine which held
his trousers up.
“Bicky”: These nuclear tests have far-
reaching repercussions! Local s.-p.
bookie complains: “This is the time of
the year when we normally get some
results, as wet tracks usually upset form
and a few long-shots get in. But what
happens? They go and set off these H-
bombs and ruin our winter rain—and
now all the well-backed horses are
winning.”
Ju. A. A
V V V
“Apemantus”: The average graduate,
says “Old Opencut” (B. 26/6/’57), bur-
dens himself with a sports-car, camera,
radiogram, television-set and wife ; then
gets himself a Guv’mint job. Well, that’s
objective thinking, anyway, and a forth-
right putting of first things first.
❖ ❖ *l*
“Sunray”: If it’s any consolation to
“Old Digger” to know, the so-called
exaggerated arm-swinging of the women’s
Services (B. 10/7/’57) felt bloody awful,
too! True, one got used to it in time,
but on the bullring for the first few
weeks I felt that every time that up-swing
was due my stomach was going to be
torn out by the roots. We were roared at
by drill-instructors (female) and by the
warrant-officer (male), who could never
get used to the fact that we were feminine
and always addressed us as “Youse
blokes.” It’s all right as long as you keep
your elbow straight and the thumb
tucked over the closed fingers and point-
ing slightly to the rear. And after all,
“Old Digger,” some of us mightn’t have
done much more for the war effort than a
clerk’s job, but at least we did have a
reputation for marching, so you might
leave us that! As for being beneficial to
bust-development, I couldn't say. I
never needed any, but would have been
grateful for a reducer.
“Maitri”: When the literary group
heard that the wife of the new clergyman
had written several novels —admittedly a
long time ago—they invited her to come
to a meeting as guest-of-honor. The lady
accepted, and everything went well till
the chairman started to congratulate her
on her literary achievements. It was
awkward, all right. She was the Rev.'s
third wife: the authoress had been his
first venture.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Kelvin”: Probably the Parramatta
workman who drank his bottled beer
through a straw (B. 26/6/’57) subscribed
to the widespread belief that ale taken
this way has ten times the intoxicating
effects it has when gulped from a glass.
If the belief is scientifically based the
character was economising, since getting
stinko on three-bob is no mean financial
feat these days. I doubt if there is any-
thing in the theory. Apropos, the scientific
laddies hold that the mixing of drinks is,
of itself, in no way conducive to sudden
inebriation ; they point out that it is the
alcoholic content of the various liquors
consumed that determines the stage at
which a drinker keels over. I’ve also
learned that a spoon or a corkscrew in
the neck of an opened beer-bottle will not
stop the contents from going flat, and
that draught beer which has been bottled
and corked will not retain its sparkle if
the bottle is stored upside-down. So
many illusions gone! It’s enough to
make a man go teetotal.
"Don't just STAND there!"
CITY ACCIDENT
Yesterday where two street-canyons met
Someone had stirred the city ant-bed up.
Swarms milled and scrabbled round the
blood-wet
Track, or threw their feelers up,
And twitched and chivvied where the
press was thick.
Such tumbling from their doorway-holes
you often see
When the first frenzy of the outraged
quick
Surrounds the dead with curiosity.
But order must reign in every termite-
heap,
And it was almost admirable to know
How speedily the city-cleaners reap
To harvest up the dead and let the living
flow.
For when I returned, not half-an-hour
spent,
The ants were racing as usual down
every lane;
Seized by the back the last poor casualty
went —
Unmistakably a crashed car on a
breakdown-crane. (
S.A.
COLIN THIELE.


TOUCHING on a Justice of the Peace
and the Bible (B. 19/6/’s7>: Seated
before the fire at my hotel I was
approached by a Dickensian lawyer in
a long black coat, large black hat and
squeaky boots, none of which were
removed during his waking-hours. “I’d
like you to administer an oath to a lady,”
he said ; “she’s in bed in the hotel; she
met with an accident at the railway-
station today.” I told him I didn’t have
a Bible. He said “I’ll get you the ‘Key
of Heaven.’ ” He led the way, knocked
on the door and entered. The victim
saw the black hat and long black coat
and me bringing up the rear with the book
open—only a broken leg stopped her
from jumping out of bed. She took some
convincing we hadn’t come to bury her.
—“H.S.C.”
♦♦♦ ♦>
“P. 0.”: For my money, “cheapest, well-
produced and newsy newspaper” south
{or north) of the Line (B. 19/6/’57) is
the Mittagong “Star” —4s. a year, posted.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Mugga Way”: Women don’t really
like unbecoming headgear, whatever the
dictates of the fashion-chiefs, so there's
hope for early disappearance of the
pudding-bowl and cake-tin shapes which
do nothing to enhance their wearers’
appearance. But what will happen about
the Tyrolese hats a lot of men are wear-
ing these days, especially the types who
apparently find some merit in suede shoes?
T hese hats may be attractive and com-
fortable on their native heath, but in this
usually sunny climate their narrow brims
seem rather silly. I suppose the hatters
had to do something to save their declin-
ing trade, but why can’t they develop a
tile that will be distinctively Australian
and ,at the same time suited to the
climate?
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Old Crab”: Enjoyed “Vendetta’s
Surrender” (B. 3/7/’57), but the Capt.
Murphy mentioned should have been J.J.
(not V.J.), although V.J. would have been
topical! “John Joseph” by baptism, J.J.
was known to us at school as “Buff” and
was much sought-after in the cricket
season—a very capable wicketkeeper. He
wrote a textbook on pidgin English.
*> *l*
“Kas”: For the benefit of “Sunray”
(B. 12/6/’57), fainting is quite fashion-
able among schoolgirls. In many cases
it’s the juvenile feminine way of attract-
ing notice before development of
Sabrina charms, Hollywood glamor or
widgie dress. One 12-year-old regular
eats no breakfast, so her turns are more-
or-less based on hunger. A 10-year-old
has it down to a fine art and can swoon
on any pretext from spinach to spelling.
Another, who specialises in vomiting, is
doped to the eyebrows with aspirin and
Mum’s cigarettes ; still another develops
asthma when things don’t go her way.
The curious part is that the mothers all
seem to take a pride in the antics of their
brats and expect everyone concerned to
be sympathetic. If ever I embrace a racket
It will be psychiatry. The offspring of
these specimens will surely be permanent
patients.
♦» * ,*«
u- . T • ,
Jr.U.M.C. : Vivien Leigh s outburst
land prompt ejection) from the public
gallery of the House of Lords reminds us
that this ultra-democratic approach of
an elector to Parliament assembled,
always rare enough to be shocking in
English-speaking countries has never
been tolerated for a moment by British
tradition. I wonder why? French, Bel-
"The Duff-Wilkinsons could have been a little more explicit !”
gian, German, Swedish and both North
and South American legislatures are sub-
ject to such outspoken criticism and/or
advice from impetuous individuals com-
paratively often, but never regard it as
anything like the indignity that our
Parliaments do.
♦> *> *
“C.W.0.”: “Tom Trout” (B. 3/7/’57)
may be correct about the German origin
of “Waltzing Matilda,” but he is cer-
tainly wrong in implying that a “journey-
man” was so-called because he went on
a journey. A journeyman was a trades-
man who worked for a daily wage,
journee being the French for a day’s
work.
❖ ♦♦♦ *
“Narumee”: An American monthly,
discussing the problems of retired people,
labels them “elder-agers.” Now perhaps
the 40-odds can rid themselves of that
depressing “middle” and become “tween-
agers.”
“Pip Tok”: A symptom of the increas-
ing raggedness of Australian dailies is the
policy recently adopted by our Perth
morning paper of dropping the desig-
nation “Mr.” from news-items because,
the paper explained, this is done by news-
papers in other places. In practice there’s
a curious lack of logic about the policy
We read of Mayor X, or Chairman Y,
presiding over a public meeting, yet when
the same gentleman is referred to in the
social columns he reassumes the dignity
of Mr. In the courts the trial judge is
still accorded the dignity of “Mr. Justice,”
but the “Gents One” are Crown Prosecu-
tor A and Defence Counsel B ,
The ladies, however, remain Mrs. or Miss,
but, then, logic has never been strongly
associated with the fair sex.
♦> ♦>
“Smithy”: Emerald-green suede
boots with white laces and white soles
about 2in. thick ; brilliant scarlet pants
ending about 6in. above the ankle to
reveal shocking-pink socks ; a purple shirt
with pink piping and jacket as blue as
bad language. A character from a
science-fiction fantasy? Not on your
sweet life. I actually encountered this in
a Hobart street and only had my sanity
saved by a sweet little white-haired lady
ejaculating “’Strewth!” and the uncon-
trollable giggles of two young girls.
❖ ❖ *
“W.A.M.”: Public-relations? Just
beC re 11 a.m. in a large suburban bank
I had observed the manager’s efforts as


he watched the staff handling the Satur-
day-morning rush and his occasional
personal friendly contact with clients. I
wonder what he would have thought of
his efforts being undermined if he had
heard the uniformed attendant say to
two or three late customers trying to
get past him through the partly opened
door. “Do y’ want us to keep the
flamin’ place open all bloody day?”
♦> ♦> ❖
“Bo”: I thought I was inured to the
shocks of bill-getting, for I no longer
stare goggle-eyed at the telephone-
account and threaten to have it cut off
(how the family used to laugh at that
one!). Nor do I now turn a bright puce
when I see what new fortune I have to
spar-up to insure the car. But the last
slug from the doc. rocked me ; not the
“Why, yes, miss—I think, with a staff reshuffle, We could squeeze you
right in here in Personnel .”
size of it —that being taken for granted—
but the manner of its presentation.
Itemised meticulously, it ran like this:
Removing cutaneous incrustation
(wart) 5 5 0
Listening-in to pulmonary
peculiarities 3 3 0
Tapping knobs for suspected
reflexes 2 2 0
Gazing into starboard ear for wax 110
Gazing into port ear for wax 1 1 0
Inquiring after wife’s health .. 10 6
Total £l3 2 6
Say, £lO 10s. Od.
Well, now that the medical profession has
started borrowing the procedures of the
law, we can perhaps look forward to
legal retaliation and get a solicitor’s
account written out in a hand that can’t
be read!
❖ *l* ♦!«
“Pip Tok”: Add to the list of the few
remaining buglers (B. 29/5/’57), George
Gilmore, of Safety Bay (W.A.). He
started bugling in the King’s Royal Rifles,
got to South Africa just before the Boer
War ended, served later with the K.R.R.
throughout the Kaiser’s war, came to
Australia and, although well over 50
when Hitler got out of step, put his age
back, went away with the Second A.I.F.
and sounded calls in the Western Desert.
He still sounds the appropriate calls on
Anzac Day and Armistice Day, and at
annual reunions and memorial services.
*> ❖ ❖
“Peter R.”: “B. A. Ker” (B. 19/6/’57)
was lucky to strike a Canberra florin in.
circulation. Most of them disappeared
about World War 11, and it must be 10
years since I received the last one in
change. None of the Australian com-
memorative coinage lasts long. The
Coronation and Royal Visit florins are
rapidly disappearing, and the old 1937
crown-piece, which could have been a
very useful coin, hardly saw daylight
before the coin-collectors salted it away.
I sometimes see specimens displayed for
sale at prices up to £l, which is supposed
to be illegal. An acquaintance who is a
manufacturing-jeweller tells me he never
lets a florin minted before 1947 leave his
shop ; the silver-content is considerably
more than face-value at today’s prices,
and he can make a fair saving by melting
the coins down for use in his trade. And
that, he added cheerfully, is illegal, too.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Kalewa” (Eng.); Many World War I
soldiers who were stationed in the Fovant
area, 10 miles west of Salisbury, Wiltshire,
will recall the British and Australian
Army badges, 150 ft. high, cut in the
hillsides there. The cutting of the badges was
not easy work. The hills are steep and it
was necessary to chip away the turf and fill the
outline with chalk carried from another site,
as the natural chalk in the hills lies too far
below ground-level. As the hills overlook the
rifle-ranges work on the badges had to be done
between 4 a.m. and 7 a.m. before firing began.
According to one chronicler, it was much easier
coming down than going up—the troops used
to toboggan down the slopes on their shovels.
Two Aussie badges remain—a large map of
Australia and an Australian Military Forces
badge. After War I the badges soon became
overgrown; later the Australian Government
paid for the upkeep of some —one of them, a
giant kangaroo, has since been obliterated.
During Hitler’s war the badges were deliberately
left untended. Nature and the hooves of sheep
and cattle soon hid them from enemy aircraft.
After the war the A.M.F. badge and the
map were restored by local citizens as a gesture
of appreciation for food-parcels received from
Australia. The Australian flag which flies from
the flagpole in the centre of the map on special
occasions was dedicated, and is kept, in th*
parish church at Fovant.
SIMPLE EXPLANATION
“A South African doctor has advanced the
theory that removal of the tonsils, which thus
allows unrestricted entry of germs into the
throat, is a possible cause of juvenile
delinquency.”
When I was a little lad
I was anything but bad.
/ had no temper —just a _ “paddy,”
rather,
Which expressed itself one day
When, denied the right to play,
l got some wire and tried to strangle
Father.
When a boy who lived near by
Wickedly spat in my eye,
A mild rebuke l felt he would be
needing;
So I threw a tomahawk.
He only gave one squawk . . .
It interested me to see him bleeding.
Grandma once gave me a smack
’Cause I shot her in the back
With my air-gun, just to see if it was
working ;
Grandma toppled down the stairs
When I rigged one of my snares —
It looked so funny from where I was
lurking.
Mum at times was quite unkind,
For she belted my behind
Simply because the table I’d been
chopping
Up to get some bonfire-wood.
I was all misunderstood,
So I set fire to her room while she was
shopping.
You could really only call
It high spirits, that was all,
For by nature I am not the least bit
vicious.
Then some idiot of a doc.
Yanked my tonsils out. A flock
Of wogs rushed in, with object most
malicious:
To incite me into strife!
And although, before, my life
Had been blameless, my resistance,
then, I think, went.
So be careful that your brats
Aren’t de-tonsiled, because that’s
How I became a juvenile delinquent.
n.s.w.
S. W. K.


* It is possible that the missing
trace-elements, zinc and copper,
were inadvertently supplied with
the superphosphate from Cuming
Smith and Mt. Lyell Farmers
Fertilizers, Ltd., Eassendean, W.A.
FURTHER TO
Chase and Esperance
By A. D. HELMS
TN the article in The
Bulletin on July 3, by
Dave Frith, of Perth, dealing
with the Esperance project in
W.A., Mr. Frith’s outlook on
the subject was well sum-
marised in his last paragraph:
It is regrettable that Aus-
tralians were never given a look-
in on the ground floor. The
scheme could have been financed
with Australian capital, the land
settled with Australian farmers
and brought into production
quicker that way.
The first part of the para-
graph is hardly correct, as
land at Esperance until quite
recently has been available
for selection for half a cen-
tury. The assumption in the
second part that Australian
capital and farming ability
could have done the job is
undoubtedly correct. But
although time has been ample,
capital and action, both private
and Governmental, avoided
this area and thus prevented
development.
There were a number of
reasons. First of all, until quite
recently—and thanks are here
largely due to Allen T. Chase
—the Esperance region has
never been attractive to the
individualistic Australian
farmer. After the heyday of
Esperance in the ’nineties,
when it was the port of the
goldfields until the railway
from Fremantle was built,
innumerable settlers have
attempted to farm the Esper-
ance Plain. Invariably they
have failed or just made an
existence. The reasons: lack
of soil-fertility, isolation (500-
600 miles from Perth, 200-250
miles from Coolgardie and Kal-
goorlie) and lack of markets
even if production problems
were solved.
The truth is that the usual
pattern of Australian land-
settlement had failed in this
region.
The problems of developing
the Esperance Plain were tan-
talising. Here we have a good
port at Esperance, similar in
many respects to Table Bay, at
least a million acres (say 100
miles east-to-west and 20 miles
north-to-south), almost as flat
as a pancake, no serious clear-
ing problems, and with, above
all, a reliable, well-distributed
rainfall of 20-25 inches, plus a
mild, climate free of frosts.
Notwithstanding these favor-
able features, this area
remained for all practical
purposes a desert. Why?
Such was the position in
1927-28, when Esperance Pine
Forests, Ltd., was granted
about 40,000 acres at 2s. 6d. an
acre west of the main north-
south road from Esperance,
between White Lake and Gib-
son’s Soak. Pine-planting ran
into difficulties of company
policy and finance in addition
to soil deficiencies and that
enterprise also failed.
A shrewd successful and
retired farmer, R. G. Stuart,
of Dowerin, W.A., and the
then manager, reviewed the
ruins of the company and set
its immediate objective as
follows:
1. Change-over from forestry
for the time being and
place the main emphasis on
pasture-development.
2. Explore and develop the
technical problems of pro-
duction, with fat-lamb ex-
ports from Esperance as
ultimate aim.
Importance was laid on (a)
raising soil-fertility, especially
its phosphate and nitrogen con-
tent ; ( b ) gradually merging
from crops of pure legumes to
mixed perennial grass-clover
pastures; (c) stocking with
sheep
With the meagre resources
available this was attempted
during the years 1929-32 on a
30-aere experimental area at
White Lake, 11 miles north of
Esperance.
By 1930-31 major results
were beyond expectation* and
a number of mixed pastures
were estimated to be capable
of carrying four sheep per acre.
Amongst those impressed with
the possibilities was G. L.
Sutton, the then Director of
Agriculture.
Efforts to raise additional
capital to extend develop-
ment to a few thousand acres
failed, notwithstanding
enthusiastic support and gener-
ous interest, extending over
several years, from the West
Australian press and “Elders
Weekly,” of South Australia.
The company closed down in
1932.
The depression of the 1930’s
may have been a contributing
factor; but, in any case, apart
from Sir Charles Latham,
then Minister for Lands,
development at Esperance had
no appeal for the short-
sighted Mitchell Government.
These circumstances eventually
closed the door of progress for
a number of years. In 1949
the Government of the day
decided to establish a research-
station near Gibson’s Soak
with a view to repeating and
expanding the early experi-
ments on a semi-commercial
basis.
Results of this field-station
and the efforts of its manager,
Mr. Norris, led to the Advisor?
Committee’s Report of 1955.
Subsequent history and the
advent of Allen T. Chase on the
scene are too well known to
need recapitulation. At long
last it appears that a clear
Objective, Know-how, Capital*
and Timing, welded together
with drive and incentive, have
a chance of making further
conquests; indeed, nothing less
('Continued on page 22)


POLITICAL POINTS
Albert Monk doesn’t think “the Gov-
ernment of China is a Communist regime
at all. Only 54 per cent, of members of
Congress are Communist.” Those three
“Rightist” Cabinet Ministers who have
just signed confessions of their “ideolo-
gical sins” —would they belong to the 54
per cent, or the rest?
• •
Why should politicians expect free
admittance to race-meetings and other
sporting fixtures? Their gold-passes have
officially disappeared (though some
haven’t been returned), and travel is now
supposed to be restricted to official
business. This should have marked the
beginning of a new era of responsibility
on the subject of perks and expenses, but
it hasn’t. Facsimiles of the passes are
being used to gain admission to race-
courses. Haven’t our elected representa-
tives any pride?
• . •
Criticising Government-built homes in
Darwin, Senator Ivy Wedgwood said
some of them had no backdoors and
“women had to use a single stairway to
receive visitors and carry washing in and
out.” Inconvenient, no doubt, but they
would have no need to feel embarrassed
if Churchill, Attlee, Eden or Macmillan
happened to be among the visitors.
Britain’s Prime Minister, speaking at
almost the same time about overdue
renovations to No. 10 Downing Street,
said that the famous front door was the
only door in the house and important
visitors going in were quite likely to
bump into the baker or milkman going
out. He didn’t mention the washing.
• *
As a sequel to the death of Queens-
land Mines Minister Devries fresh nomi-
nations will have to be called for the
Gregory seat as the Queensland
Elections Act provides for the can-
cellation of the writ in the event of a
candidate dying between nomination day
and polling day. A by-election will be
held in due course.
• •
Cahill handled the appointment of a
successor to Sir John Northcott as
Governor of N. S. Wales with all the
delicacy of a hippopotamus in boxing-
gloves. In Queensland Gair is giving a
similar performance over Sir John
Lavarack’s successor. Last week, with
an election and a possible change of
Government only a fortnight off, he
announced that he had already submitted
a panel of names to Buckingham Palace.
To suggestions that this was unethical
in view of the fact that he had ceased to
command a majority in Parliament on
April 24, the day he was expelled by the
Q.C.E., he maintained that his action had
been correct and that before it left office
in 1932 the Moore Liberal Government
had nominated a new Governor, Sir Leslie
Wilson. Provided Gair submitted his list
before April 24 the analogy is fair
enough ; Moore’s recommendations were
made three months before he went out
of office. Duggan, however, says Cabinet
had made no decision up to the time he
left it.
• •
A scientific party is visiting the
Northern Territory in an attempt to find
out why aborigines rest on one leg.
Apparently the idea is that if the secret
can be learnt by white men everyone will
be able to jest on left and right legs
alternately, thus doubling the life of both
legs. Unfortunately, however, there is
as yet no evidence to suggest that an
abo.’s legs live any longer than the rest of
his body.
• •
Those who know Jack McEwen laugh
at rumors that the Trade Minister,
Deputy-leader of the Country Party and
“father” of the Australia-Japan Trade
Agreement will be knighted in the New
Year’s Honors List. Not that they don’t
think him worthy of recognition, but in
this country only those politicians who
have given up hope of becoming Prime
Minister accept the accolade. McEwen
isn’t likely to bow out just yet.
• •
C.P. leader Nicklin has set Queensland
wage-earners wondering just what they’ve
gained from nearly 40 years of Labor
rule. He has quoted the Commonwealth
Statistician’s figures to show that the
average earnings of a Queensland worker
are lower than those of any other State.
Actual figures at June 30, 1956, were: -
Victoria, fl 9 ; N. S. Wales, £lB 11s. 5d.;
Tasmania, £l7 12s. 2d.; S.A.,
£l7 10s. 2d.; W.A., £l6 95.; Queens-
land, £l5 15s. Furthermore, he said,
savings-bank deposits per headi of popu-
lation were lower in Queensland than in
any other State except Westralia.
• •
“Lobby”: Despite contrary reports,
Parliament will ratify the Australia-Japan
trade-agreement this Budget session.
The Government expects some solid
opposition within its own ranks as well
as from Labor, but Ministers are con-
fident they will be able to bring dis-
gruntled backbenchers into line.
Lobbying by manufacturers (against)
and commerce and importers (for) pro-
mises to be intensive when the session
opens on August 27, but the P.M. is
expected to lead the fight within 'the
Liberal party to scotch wild claims that
Japanese competition will drive many
Australian manufacturers out of business.
The Country party will vote solidly in
favor of the agreement.
Seems a pity that the papers are pub-
lishing so many hints to taxpayers on
how to claim deductions that* they
mightn’t know about. In the long run
it only suggests to the Taxation people a
few more loopholes to be closed.
• •
Duggan continues to discover grave
errors in Gair policy which he managed
to overlook during the years he was a
Minister (and deputy-leader) of the Gair
Government. Latest is that Gair’s refusal
to make Queensland an agent State for
soldier-settlement purposes has hampered
soldier-settlement in Queensland. It pro-
bably has, too, but Duggan has been a
long time finding it out. The Opposition
has been telling him for years.
• •
As forecast on this page six weeks ago
the move to extend the compulsory re-
tiring-age beyond 65 years has failed. It
was said here that the inter-departmental
committee would take the easy way out
by recommending that “everything pos-
sible” be done to encourage people to
remain voluntarily in some form of
employment after reaching 65. Social
Services Minister Roberton has now
received the “most formidable document”
and, with what must be a touch of
Scottish humor, he has commented:
It will be my duty to read it with great
care, and after a critical examination of the
contents, make a condensation for sub-
mission to Cabinet.
At that point the report itself, together
with any condensation and observations I
make, will become “Cabinet Papers’’ within
the meaning of that term, and their contents
can only be released by direction of the
Prime Minister and/or the Acting Prime
Minister, neither of whom has had an
opportunity to examine the report.
Roberton probably means that neither
Menzies nor Fadden will go within a mile
of the report, which obviously rambles
on and gets nowhere.
• •
Who’s behind the sudden revival of
the demand for N. S. Wales Government
accounts to be removed from the Bank
of New South Wales to the Rural Bank?
The initiative came from the Doc.’s
Barton electorate. When Clive Evatt was
Chief Secretary a few years back he
ordered the Fire Brigades Board to switch
its dough to the Rural, but was slapped
down by the Premier.
• •
Reversing the trend of the two previ-
ous quarters the c.-0.-l. index for the
June term showed an increase in all
capitals, equivalent in terms of the basic
wage to 4s. a week in Adelaide ; 3s. in
Melbourne and Perth ; 2s. in Brisbane,
Hobart and Sydney. Quarterly adjust-
ments are no longer made on Federal
awards, nor on State awards in South
Australia, Tasmania and Victoria. In
N. S. Wales the adjustment is automatic
on wages under the State award and also
on the wages of Government employees
under Federal awards. The Queensland
Industrial Court took action immediately
to increase the State basic wage by 2s. ;
on Friday the West Australian court
raised the W.A. wage by 3s. lid.


Lang’s “Century,” always a good friend
to Evatt, roasted James:
The story, started by a resolution of the
Cessnoek branch of the A.L.P, that Doc.
Evatt. may contest the coalfields seat of
Hunter at the next Federal elections,
brought a bellow from old Rowley James.
He is one of those sitting members in a
safe' Tabor seat who are always hanging
on for ‘just another term.’ Why the Tabor
party does not get to work and put some
young and able members into I’arlijment
via safe seats is hard to imagine.
“The Century” is bitter because it can
see Evatt’s demise unless someone in a
safe seat moves over.
So the next move to be made on the
Doc.’s behalf is likely to be within the
Sydney metropolitan area in either Reid,
Lang or Grayndler, currently held by the
party’s Right-wing.
Of the three, Reid would be the most
suitable, because the sitting member,
Charles Morgan, is reported to have lost
control of his branches and thus will not
win preselection.
Not even Dr. Evatt could win Barton
again for Labor. Although his per-
sonal following is still high, the electorate
—-mainly a middle-class area on the shores
of Botany Bay —continues to move away
from Labor. In a triangular contest at
the last Federal election Evatt defeated
his Liberal opponent, W. T. Arthur, by
only 226 votes after all but 444 of the
Independent candidate’s 1655 preferences
went against him.
In the election now expected to be held
before Christmas next year, Dr. Evatt
would have to fight much tougher odds
because Alan Manning, president of the
Democratic Labor Party, has threatened
to “stand against Dr. Evatt in whatever
seat he contests.”
Even if Manning took only a fifth of
Labor votes, sufficient preferences would
go to Arthur to assure him of winning
the seat. Another factor against Evatt is
Arthur’s almost constant campaigning
since the 1955 election. In the 18 months
since then he is reported to have spoken
to every voter in the electorate.
Whatever the Doc. decides to do he will
have to act soon. The A.L.P. will begin
the big task of endorsing its official
candidates within the next few months.
Now that Frank Packer’s Sydney
“Telegraph” has crashed through with
serial rights of Around the World in
Eighty Days Warwick Fairfax’s “Herald”
may be expected to hit back with Tom
Brown s Schooldays.
• m
The N.S.W. Town Planning Association
intends to ask Dr. Evatt to introduce
legislation to have the Sydney G.P.O.
clock put back in its old position. They
couldn't have picked a better man for the
job. Since he became leader of the
Federal A.L.P. he has put the Labor clock
back 30 years at least.
• •
Duggan’s estimate of the Q.L.P.
chances is that Gair’s party will not poll
more than 15 per cent, of the votes cast.
There’s small consolation for him in that.
In a considerable number of electorates
the loss of that proportion of votes would
be sufficient to lose the A.L.P. the seat.
• •
One of Cahill’s Ministerial trippers,
Works Minister McGrath, is back from
his U.S.A. holiday with the discovery
that in America insurance companies and
banks are investing million:* l of dollars in
housing and that private organisations
are building thousands of flats and apart-
ment-houses. The driving-force, he says,
is the tax-concession granted to people
who finance housing projects. Housing
BANANALAND BUNCHY-TOP
Minister Landa is still in America and
McGrath forecasts that he’ll have “very
important statements to make” on his
return.
Will the two Ministers try to convince
the N. S. Wales Government and the
Labor party in general that the best way
to get homes built is to make it profitable
to build rental homes, instead of encour-
aging the idea that all landlords are
bloodsucking parasites?
• •
“Eluxor”: According to “World
Sports” there was an echo of Nina Pona-
mareva and the hats when Preston North
Soccer-club visited Sweden. Joe Walton,
captain of the team, was charged with
stealing razor-blades and a jumper-set
from a Stockholm store. There was no
international incident. Walton was given
a suspended sentence of three years.
• •
Sir Bernard Heinze advocates a Federal
tax on all entertainment to help finance
the Sydney Opera House. His concern
for cultural advancement is understand-
able, but it is hard to justify taxing people
who go to the trots in Perth, the dogs in
Hobart or the pictures at Mt. Isa in order
to subsidise an Opera House in Sydney.
• •
J. F. Cairns, Labor M.H.R. for Yarra,
was addressing wharfies in support of
United Federation candidates. Asked for
his attitude to unity tickets, Cairns
replied, “Two things shouldn’t enter
trade-union elections politics and
religion.” The questioner’s follow-up
caught him on the hop (left leg), “What
are you doing here then: aren’t you a
politician?”
• •
Rolls-Royce, Ltd., incorporated in
1906 with a capital of £50,000, last year
recorded sales to the tune of £BO million.
Backlog of orders at December 31, 1956,
was £9O million.
• •
|
For the benefit of Sydney people who
want to watch flying-saucers—Venus sets
at 7.15 tonight and Jupiter at 9.39.
Katoomba readers add three minutes.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Born in 1887 and still going
strong, Arthur Joseph Deakin is
chairman and managing-director of Evans
Deakin and Co., Ltd., the Queensland
engineering and shipbuilding concern he
and the late Colonel Dan Evans founded
in 1911. He’s been active in the State
Metal Trade Employers’ Association since
A. J. DEAKIN
its beginnings, has served as Federal
president of the Metal Industries Asso-
ciation, captained the Royal Queensland
Golf Club for some years, and is on the
boards of a number of companies, includ-
ing Mount Isa Mines, Ltd. An oarsman
and inter-State footballer in his day, he’s
keen on the team spirit in other fields
than sport—for many years he’s had con-
structive ideas on employee-welfare
schemes.
• •
Herbert Cannon will be the A.B.C.’s
new Director of Music when W. G.
James, the present Director, retires this
August. A Queenslander, Cannon’s
musical apprenticeship included, in 1939,
a course in England under Sir Henry
Wood: he headed back with a Fellow-
ship of the Royal College of Organists.
In 1945 the A.B.C. made him Supervisor
of Music for N.S.W.; in the following
year he became Assistant Director of
Music (all States), which post he’s held
continuously to the present.
• •
Among the seven new appointments
to the staff of the University of Tasmania
is Professor J. McManners, who has
come from Oxford to the Chair of
History. He graduated from Oxford
in 1939 with first-class honors in Modern
History, commanded a platoon at
Tobruk, was a liaison-officer with the
Greek Army, and was decorated by the
King of Greece. Went back to England to
study theology, was ordained a priest of
the Anglican Church, and since then has
been teaching at Oxford, where he
acquired a reputation as an authority on
the French Revolution. At Hobart, in
addition to his job at the university, he
gives honorary help as assistant-priest in
the parish of Clarence.
• ©
Switching-off the mike in November,
after 46 years in radio, Basil W. Kirke,
who has been A.B.C. manager in Westralia
twice. A lad from the Sydney seaside
suburb of Manly, a place prolific in
Rugby footballers and swimmers (Basil
has been a fair performer in both branches
of aquatics, in his day), educated at Fort
Street and Sydney Grammar, a radio
“ham” in 1911, he served overseas with
the First A.I.F. and later put in a few
years in Fiji, working for the Colonial
Office. Back in Australia, he turned to
broadcasting for a living—mostly sporting
commentaries and actuality broadcasts.
One of his star pieces in the early days
was a talk from the ocean-bed off Cottesloe
(W.A.). When the A.B.C. took over from
Westralian Farmers, Ltd., in 1932, he
became the first A.B.C. manager in W.A.
—when there were fewer people on the
Perth payroll than there are departments
now. Later he shifted to Port Moresby
and Brisbane, then back to Perth in 1953
for a second term as manager.
• •
Joel Henry Mace, joint managing-
director of the new land-development
concern, Farm Management, Ltd., had a
very interesting war, mixed-up with radar
countermeasures, planning, deception,
J. H. MACE
and the like. In the R.A.N. he served
for a time on a hush-hush section of
MacArthur’s headquarters, was an official
observer at the Normandy and South
France landings, and came back to join
Mountbatten’s headquarters. Born in
London, he came here as a child, studied
chemical engineering at Melbourne Uni-
versity (in the Faculties of Science and
Arts ; chemical engineering was not then
a degree course at Melbourne), and later
got a Bachelor of Economics degree at
Sydney.
After the war managing-director of the
United Development Corporation, a con-
cern interested in coal-washing, he
bought a property a couple of years ago
on the central tablelands 130 miles
from Sydney and has been pro-
gressively developing it: hence the idea of
Farm Management, Ltd. Apart from
these interests, he’s Australasian repre-
sentative of Dow Chemical International,
and is currently in Japan on Dow
business.
• •
Dr. L. H. Palmer, who has been occu-
pied with a research Fellowship in South-
east Asian studies at Yale (U.S.), is the
new Professor of Asian Studies at Vic-
toria University College (N.Z.).
• o
“M.”: Donald Hollier, 6ft. 6in. and 22
years of age, is a talented Sydney musician
who’s leaving shortly to work for a
Bachelor of Music degree at London
University and continue his pianoforte
studies abroad. A pianist of brilliant
qualities, he’s already an Associate and
Licentiate of the Australian Music
Examinations Board and holds both
Teacher’s and Performer’s Diplomas of
the N.S.W. State Conservatorium: when
he graduated at the Con. in 1955 he was
awarded the coveted Frank Shirley Prize
as the most distinguished student of his
year.
As well as pianistic ability, Hollier has
other musical capabilities: for six years
he’s been a competent and imaginative
organist at Newington College and
organist of the South Hurstville Methodist
Church. He fills-up his spare moments
with composition and has put together
a number of acceptable songs (a shade
modern in idiom) as well as instrumental
pieces which include a somewhat
intriguing sonata for euphonium and
piano brimful of melody and originality.
And he certainly doesn’t lack courage:
for the concert he’s to give at
the Conservatorium on July 26 he’s
engaged a full symphony orchestra (con-
ductor and all) so that he can play three
famous pianoforte concertos —the Mozart
F Major, the Cesar Franck Symphonic
Variations, and the Grieg. What a night’s
work! We’re going to hear a lot more
of this enterprising young man.
• •
“Jock”: Mention in B. 10/7/’57 of
solicitor Harold Morgan as the oldest
practising solicitor in N.S.W. reminds me
of a few other veteran lawyers. Less
than three years behind Morgan, and


certainly the oldest legal man in country
districts, is H. Vincent Harris, of New-
castle, who was admitted on March 5,
1892. The bearded Harris is still hale
and hearty, but seldom appears in court
these days. Second-oldest countryman is
F. C. Boys, Bombala (admitted March,
1897). Next to Harris in State seniority
is H. E. Mclntosh (August, 1893), fol-
lowed by F. O. Ebsworth (August, 1894)
and H. M. Taylor (March, 1895). E. H.
Gardner and Aubrey Halloran, 0.8. E
next in turn —were admitted on the same
day—June 1, 1895. The firm with the
greatest number of solicitors having the
same name is Tietyens, Angel and
Jackling. There are six Magneys in the
firm. Oldest of them is John Magney
(admitted August, 1910). In the firm of
Pennington and Pennington there are four
of that name, headed by W. H. Penning-
ton (November, 1938).
• •
“Shibli”: C. A. L. (Archie) Treadwell,
senior partner of Wellington’s (N.Z.)
oldest legal firm, pigeonholed his last brief
recently, and plans to resume the literary
work which, in the more leisurely pre-war
years, was a diversion. He’s had other
distractions during a half-century of law ;
several years overseas during the two
world wars, six years on the local city-
council and five on the harbor board.
• •
Herewith H. H. (Ray) Rees, managing-
director of H. P. Hawke and Co., which
celebrated its centenary this month. The
firm, 'one of the two weighbridge-
manufacturing concerns in Australia,
situated at the old copper-mining town of
Kapunda, 50 miles from Adelaide, sells
its hefty products as far afield as South
Africa, India and Cyprus; the Rees
H. H. REES
family has run the business for 75 years.
Ray Rees has served a record 10 years
as Mayor of Kapunda, was chairman of
the Barossa and Light Racing Club for
14 years, and president of the Northern;
Racing Association for four years.
• •
Selected as leader of the 1958 Australian
National Antarctic Research Expedition,
lan Leonard Adams has, at 32, had
wide experience of mountaineer-
ing and ocean-yachting, and he
led the expedition to Macquarie
Island ; at least six members of that party
want to be in next year’s jaunt. Adams
lives at Mitcham, an outer-Melbourne
suburb, and much of his time in civilisa-
tion is spent in research. But lately he’s
been hunting-up films for the Antarctic
Saturday nights—Westerns.
• •
Melbourne architects have chosen
Raymond Berg, senior lecturer in
architecture at the university, as their new
president. Berg was a navigator in the
R.A.A.F. in War 11, and works with his
hands at his hobbies. Experts say he
did a remarkable job on the details of
International House, Parkville, for over-
seas students, with the Melbourne
architects Leighton Irwin and Co., and
he builds beautiful small boats, although
sometimes, he says, they don’t dovetail.
• •
Stephen Kelen, whose Bulletin serial
“Freedom is a Rainbow” finished last
week, is 45, was born in Budapest, was
educated there and at Prague University,
and has been writing, in one language and
another, since he was 17. A former
world-champion table-tennis player (as
played in Europe, a strenuous sport) he
visited Australia on a playing tour in
1937, liked the place, and came back for
good in 1939. Served in the A.I.F. during
the war, soldiered on with 8.C.0.F. in
Japan, and came back to marry a Sydney
girl.
Stephen regards himself, and is thought
of by all who know him, as whole-
heartedly Australian ; a tolerant fellow in
many ways, he’s a shade critical of people
from overseas who, once they have made
the choice of living here, don’t throw
themselves as enthusiastically into our
language and customs as he has done. But,
for all that, his finest literary work has
been based on his native earth, and is
most valuable as an interpretation,
for Australian readers, of the com-
plex social and psychological phenomena
of Europe.
A long story called “Who Is My
Enemy?” printed in The Bulletin some
time back, belongs to this special
category of his writing: it was, Stephen
says, purely autobiographical. “Freedom
Is a Rainbow,” although the immediate
source is somewhat different, has the same
quality—the factual material is filtered
through the same mood of passionate
sincerity.
What happened in Hungary last year
moved Stephen deeply. He bought a
tape-recorder for the express purpose of
interviewing the first refugees from
STEPHEN KELEN
Hungary when they arrived here in
December, did so, and subsequently inter-
viewed others as they arrived. He tire-
lessly checked and eliminated —before he
accepted a statement it had to be
independently confirmed by at least three
other persons—and, as a writer, he was
very sad about some of the stories he had
to reject: but his object was not colorful
material for fiction, but the truth, as far as
it lay within his power to unveil it. In
short, he set himself much the same task
as that undertaken by the U.N. Com-
mission. It is interesting to read the later
U.N.. report and see how closely matters
of fact and sequence of events tally with
the account in “Freedom Is a Rainbow.”
Stephen is working on a book with the
same title, using additional material
unearthed in his one-man inquiry.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Taree (N.S.W.), at 73, Judge Harold
Lewis Lamond, formerly of the N.S.W.
Workers’ Compensation Commission. He retired
from the Bench in July, 1954.
In Perth, at 76, Robert Moore, managing-
, director of the North-West Whaling Co. He
was largely responsible for the revival of the
whaling industry in Westralia.
In Sydney, at 80, Reginald Victor Wilson,
K.8.E.; Senator for S.A. (1919-25), Hon.
Minister ( 1923-25), Minister for Markets and
Migration (1925-26) and Commissioner for Aus-
tralia at the 1924 Wembley Exhibition. Later
managing-director of “Smith’s Weekly.”
In Melbourne, at 69, Arthur Le Fevre, one of
Australia’s best-known professional golfers.
Winner of the Australian Open in 1921.
In Sydney, at 81, Rear-Admiral J. B. Steven-
son. Member Australian Naval Board (1927-
29), Capt.-Supt. Sydney Naval Establishments
(1929-31). C.M.G. 1924.
In Melbourne, at 68, Captain Edward William
Kinch, a senior master with William Holyman
and Sons. On the Victoria-Tasmania run
since 1924, in 1926 he was captain of the
Kooringa, which sank in flames outside Port
Phillip Heads.
In Sydney, at • 60, R. H. Wakeham, chief-
inspector of the N.S.W. Fisheries Department.
In London, at 76, Sholem Asch, well-known
Jewish novelist. Several of his books were
best-sellers.
In Sydney, Lou d’Alpuget, one of the pioneers
of Rugby League in N.S.W. Versatile sports-
man —boxer and swimmer as well as footballer.


ABORIGINALITIES
IN recent years several large meteor-
craters have been found which are
the result of unrecorded falls of giant
meteorites in the distant past. In W.A.
there’s the “Wolf Creek crater,” dis-
covered in 1948, half-a-mile in diameter ;
and, the largest known meteor-crater, one
in Ungava (Canada), discovered in 1950.
The Ungava meteorite is believed to have
fallen 10,000 years ago; the Westralian
is much more recent. Then, of course,
there are the famous big craters of
Arizona and of Siberia —both of which
belong, I think, to historical times.
Which suggests that, though there’s a long
time between meteorites, a thumping big
one could come down any tick, and it
could fall —who knows? —bang in the
middle of New York —or Moscow . . .
“Tell the colonel I'll be with him in a jiffy."
And, before it was worked out just what
had happened, it could be that H-bombs,
intercontinental-missiles and the rest could
be en route to Moscow —or to New York.
It could all start that way.—“Kros.”
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: A select committee
of the Papua-N.G. Territory’s Legisla-
tive Council having recommended that
certain natives should be permitted to
drink a specially-brewed light-ale,
Administrator Cleland, who has to make
the final decision, is deferring it by
claiming that a thorough investigation
must be made (by whom?) in countries
where natives are already drinking, such as
“Fiji, New Zealand and Samoa.” Surely
Cleland and his Canberra advisers have
enough knowledge on the matter already
to be able to decide. What is the real
reason for the delay? A lot of people
would like to know.
* lie * *
“Sackfair”: It took an effort to break
myself in to the idea of jilleroos replacing
jackies on stations ; and I managed to
accept the report of a girl drover who
has her own plant operating in the
Northern Territory. But I confess I shied
and bolted at the ad. which proclaimed in
bold,- black lettering in a Sydney daily:
“STOCK CONTROL GIRL.” The rest
of the ad. removed some of the shock,
but added considerably to the bewilder-
ment: “A senior position will shortly
be available in the city office of a leading
girdle and bra manufacturer. Experience
of corsetry or stock systems would help.”
Queer cattle, women!
* * * *
“Uramao”: Trying to put an Emperor-
penguin “off” in order to take a blood-
test, an American doctor with Operation
Deep Freeze in Antarctica gave it two
nembutal tablets. The fowl in the white-
tie-an’-tails just gave a penguin-laugh and
remained vertical. Dosage was stepped-
up, and it wasn’t until 21 tablets —
sufficient to “knock” a multiplicity of
humans —that the Emperor keeled over.
Even then he had the last laugh—his
layers of blubber proved to be impervious
to the blood-drawing needles. He
remained immobile on the same spot for
some days, abstained from food, and
moulted before finally waddling off to
join the boys.
* * * *
“Myall”: Eight full-time inspectors
will be needed when the new dingo-barrier
fence from the N.S.W. border north to
100 miles beyond Cloncurry (Q.) is
finished —it's nearing the last stages of
completion. Apart from patrolling the
3500-mile fence, the eight, who will be
based at Hughenden, will see that graziers
through whose property it runs keep it in
repair. Each man will be provided with
a four-wheel-drive vehicle equipped with
camping-gear and a two-way radio. Pay
is £l9 2s. a week, plus £3 a week
travelling-expenses.
* * * *
“Canopus”: Thought I’d had a tough
start in life —used to milk nine cows, lop
kurrajongs, ride three miles to school,
and then might cop a sixer for having
dirty hands. Then I met young Ernie.
Asked him how many in his family? He
said: “Fifteen, but I only knew about
half of 'em —the elder ones all cleared
out when they reached the age of 12 —
old man was a cow-cocky with old-time
ideas and no use for milking-machines.’*
* * * *
“ ’Arvey”: Knew a bloke up around
Dorrigo way (N.S.W.) who when the rest
of us would be shivering on a bitter mid-
winter day, out in the windswept paddock
at the lunch-break, would be completely
at ease, and even wearing a satisfied grin.
He claimed he’d think he was sitting in
front of a roaring fire and, after a little
solid concentration, could actually feel the
warmth. Rest of the mob reckoned he
was bats, but the fact remains he didn’t
seem to feel the cold.
* * *
“Jabini”: Can any Aboite explain
this? The lagoon near our home is fast
drying-up, due to prolonged dry weather,
and a scum has formed on the muddy
water. In the early morning or late after-
noon this slime is green. During the day
it turns bright red. It is the same color
close at hand or from a distance, so it’s
not just a trick of the light.
* * * m
“D.M.”: Pooches can be tough ; and
they need to be to survive snakebite—•
without treatment! One of our dogs was
bitten twice. The snake was not seen, but
both times twin punctures were clearly
visible on the lower lip, which swelled
and hung down. He was given brandy
and recovered. Another dog, recently
bitten on the lip by a death-adder,
recovered without treatment after a
couple of days.
* * * *
“XCO”: As C.O. of a small R.A.A.F.
unit in the war-time tropics it was my
melancholy duty to see that illegal stills
and brewing establishments were forced
out of action. What proved even harder
was finding-out the “dispensers” who just
mixed various ingredients without need-
ing any apparatus. Particularly active
among these were some medical orderlies,
since they usually had a good supply of
pure medicinal alcohol, as well as metho,
and quite frequently a bottle or two of
brandy. Cpl. was one of the more
famous operators on the northern coast


TENNI9 TOURNAMENT


of New Guinea, and some of his custo-
mers used to travel up to 50 miles over
rough and dangerous country in order to
exchange a fiver for a bottle of his Jungle
Juice or Monkey’s Delight. A very fine
mixture of his was known as Knockout
Drops, and the recipe deserves to be
handed over to posterity, as it involved
an ingenious idea. To watered-down
cordial he used to add pure alcohol,
glycerine and metho. So far, quite
standard practice. The touch of genius
was to add half-a-dozen or so nembutals
or any other sleeping-drug that was
handy. The “brew” was pleasant to the
palate, obviously contained real alcohol
(many “brews” did not) and was con-
sidered a very potent concoction even by
heavy drinkers, since it used to knock
them out for hours. During one of my
inspections I became somewhat suspicious
about a row of six bottles in Cpl. ’s
tent, but my suspicions quickly vanished
after tasting some of the contents.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: I’m tipping that
when the expedition to the Bindaboo
country (W.A.) releases its report one of
its features will be the number and
variety of birds seen there ; these astonish
every newcomer to the desert. Once took
a run up from the Trans-line to the
spring Giles discovered 20-odd miles
north of Zanthus, and which he named
Queen Victoria
Spring. There
wasn’t much water
in it at the time, so
it was probably one
of the few sources
of water that wasn’t
completely dry, and
it attracted birds
from perhaps
hundreds of miles
around. Bronzewings
were plentiful and
plump; there were
thousands
perhaps hundreds
of thousands of
budgerigars; and I
saw galahs, crows,
some hawks I
couldn’t identify
and some I could,
including a falcon
and a brown-hawk.
Giles’s party ate
eggs there they took
from a mallee-fowl’s
nest, and amongst
other birds reported
from there are the
boobook - owl,
squeaker, Major
Mitchell cockatoo,
turkey, diamond-
dove, lorikeet,
cockatiel, “twenty-eight”- and mulga-
parrots, and red-backed kingfisher. Not
a bad assortment for one spot in a desert.
* * # m
••at,,oii”. i ,
•ii u ’•n C P f ce w^e re the rams
will be specially welcome is the Mount
Crosby pumping-station, which contri-
, water-supply. Not
tnat they ve been short of water, but
while the “dry” lasted they were in
trouble with an epidemic of eels in the
strainer. In one blockage they found
four in it —whoppers, the biggest 4ft. Bin.,
with a girth of 15in. and tipping the beam
at 191 b. lOoz. On another occasion they
were only modest medium-sized blokes,
but they made up for it in number —40
of ’em! Experts reckoned the long dry
spell compelled them to leave their usual
haunts in the pools and creeks for the
deeper waters of the river.
* * * *
“Spin”: The general belief that the
wattle, was introduced into South Africa
deliberately for its bark is wrong. Some
trees were taken there in the first place
for ornamental purposes, became popular,
and were soon established around the
mining-towns. It didn’t take the tough
little wattles long to demonstrate their
value as small mine-props, and they were
grown and used for this purpose. The
sticks were skinned first, and the heaps of
bark were something of a nuisance until
someone with a waste-nothing complex
hit on the idea of extracting the tannin.
The industry which developed out of that
chance thought now brings in millions.
* * * ip
“El Arem”: Giving our storekeeper a
hand with his 'stocktaking, I was interested
in the many old-fashioned items tucked
away on the back shelves—things like
"They only do the pick-andshovel work for me.”
whiting, red ochre and something called
agricultural dust. Among them was a
stack of little tins labelled “Meat Ten-
deriser” which wasn’t so old. He’d
bought them when there had been only
one butcher in the town and they had
sold well until two more butchers opened-
up. Then his sales suddenly dropped:
another example of the effects of
competition.
/~\UR neighbor, who has a wonderfully
fertile farm, reports that his best sow,
which was missing for a week, has been
found. He had given her up for lost
when he happened to be going through
his pumpkin-patch and heard some
muffled grunts. He gives Mrs. Dennis
full credit for her sagacity in eating the
inside out of one of the smallest of his
pumpkins—consideration which really
touched him—and using the shell to
conceal and shelter herself and the litter
she had just farrowed. —“Noon.”
* * * *
“Reddit”: A local ancient claims that
sundry bushrangers, including Ben Hall
and John Gilbert, worked on the con-
struction of the bridge over the Lachlan
at Cowra (N.S.W.) ; any confirmation?
The old-timer himself, foreman on the
job, says the bridge timber was brought
over the mountains from Richmond by
bullock-team, taking from five to six
weeks on the trip; and that wages were
3s. 6d. to 4s. a day, which “wasn’t bad,
as you could buy four quarts of beer for
sixpence,” a bag of sugar cost 7s. 6d. to
Bs. and 2cwt. of flour 125., and “spuds
were two to three bob a bag.” The bridge,
on the Mid-Western Highway, was con-
siderably weakened by the 1952 flood and
has been under repair ever since. It has
long had a claim to be the noisiest
rattling bridge in N.S.W.
* * * *
“Yakipan”: “Sevenelms” is only half-
right in his statement that the flower of
Paulonia imperialis is the emblem of the
Royal House of Japan (B. 3/7/’57). The
three blossoms and leaves of that flower
have long been the crest of the Japanese
Empress ; the crest of the Emperor is the
16-petal golden-chrysanthemum. Being
the emblem of the ruler, the chrysan-
themum became the national flower of
Japan. It is said that the early Emperors
adopted this flower because to them it
represented the sun, and in particular
Amaterasu-O-Mikami, the Sun Goddess,
the ancestress of the Japanese race.
THE GOOSE GIRL
Helga in the evening
Treads the brown Australian hill ,
Her plump geese following after.
She is going to tend the cow
In her full embroidered skirts ,
Her hair tied in a ’kerchief.
Blue and white and red is she
Like someone in a nursery-book ,
The docile string behind her.
They are smooth and clean as paint,
Clipping hill from turquoise sky ;
The gumtree looks a stranger.
She has come to tend the cow
All the way from Make Believe,
Her geese come following after.
n.s.w.
E. NORMAN.


"Throw her back — she's under sized."
TN the course of a life spent mainly
where the crow lives, I have come to
regard as fairly even the balance of his
virtues and vices, and I submit that it all
depends on the season. Insects, worms
and such small deer as mice and lizards
are Kelly’s favorite tucker, followed
closely by meat (dead or dying), eggs,
nestlings and fruit. Grain is lower on the
list ; here maize is his favorite. He likes
a bit of variety on his menu, but in a good
season he does little harm, paying for it
by keeping down the pests, and usually
staying well beyond gun-range of the
homestead. In winter or drought, of
course, it is a different story. Then, driven
by hunger, he follows the weak beasts,
ready to snatch their eyes out almost
before they fall. Then the housewife must
camp in the fowlyard if she wants any
eggs, while the damage the dark marauder
does to corn, melons and orchard-fruits
has to be seen to be believed. —
“Heresone.”
* * * *
“Kelms”: Echidnas—miscalled porcu-
pines by the early settlers —are turning-up
in Perth suburbs, and some finders are
worried about the little spiny curiosity’s
capacity to look after itself in 'a city.
They needn’t be. Although they share
with the platypus the distinction of being
the only egg-laying mammals in existence,
and consequently must be considered
pretty low in the evolutionary scale,
echidnas seem well equipped to live
wherever ants can live (which means just
about anywhere in Australia); I’ve found
them in W.A. from south of Perth to
well into the Murchison and inland
beyond the limits of the north-eastern
wheatbelt. And, for defence, all one of
them has to do is roll himself into a ball
and he becomes darned hard to handle.
The single egg is carried, and hatched,
and the young is carried too, in a pouch
which develops at the right time ; and
the mother doesn't let him out of that
until his own spikes are about to develop.
Then she plants him under cover some-
where, and I think she returns to feed him
until he can defend himself. By that time
he can burrow like nooody’s business and
turn over rocks many times bigger than
himself to get a feed, and he can tear
down termite-mounds. Taken all round,
his chances of survival anywhere are
pretty good.
“Maitri”: A family near us have had
the finest Christmas-bush I’ve seen.
Throughout each festive season its mag-
nificent brick-red sprays have been an
institution at all local functions, and
many homes have also been decorated
from the same tree. If you asked why
their tree was so much better than others,
they’d tell you it was because the
electricity-wires passed directly over it.
We smiled at this ; but since additions
were made to their house, and the wires
moved, the tree has put on a poor show.
Could they have been right?
TUI
He lives in a derelict garden,
my invisible bird. Somewhere in the
totara-tree he plucks
strings of a lute,
pipes a note or two on a broken flute.
A sense of humor he has, that bodyless
bird.
I ask him what's the joke,
And all 1 get in reply is a chuckle,
a wheezing, cracked, tree-speech
spoken from a black hole where
the house ought to be.
What a fate !
Tenant a crazy bird-voice mocking
over arum-lilies and a rotten gate.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.
Henry G. Lamond: Thanks to The
Bulletin for its review of my book
Dingo (B. 19/6/’57). Enclosed is a
history of this book:
Written about ’33. Published as a serial in
“The Australasian” about ’34. Rejected by
sundry Australian publishers. Sent to America
about ’44. (It lay dormant for about 10 years.)
Accepted with acclaim by William Morrow and
Co. ' Cited as the Book of the Week by “New
York Sun.” Beaten for Book of the Month by
Forever Amber. Ran through several editions;
50,000 copies taken for Edition Armed Forces;
30,000 for Advanced Schools. (My royalty
on that was half a cent a copy less 40 per cent,
—it was a Government publication.) Printed
in Germany about ’45. Still selling there; at
least, I get small royalty cheques twice a year.
Printed in Australia under title White Ears
the Outlaw. Sold well. Shortage of paper
and more popular authors did not permit
a reprint. The A.8.C., which had
considered and rejected it previously, did it
as a dramatised feature about June, ’56; it was
repeated in December same year. This [the
book summed-up by the “Red Page” as a
“humdingo”] is the English edition done by
Faber and Faber. It is a little longer than the
Australian edition of White Ears.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
ALUMINIUM AND POWER
[From “OLD OPENCUT," S.A.]
TJNNOTICED in this part of
of the world outside of
interested groups, the overseas
spotlight on the stage of indus-
trial events remains focused on
the battle of the aluminium
giants for production
supremacy.
The “expendables” in dollars
are astronomical.
Alcan, the Canadian goliath,
has spent £l4O million (Aust.)
over the last five years in
developing Kitimat, the rough-
and-tough virgin-country site
north of Vancouver in British
Columbia.
The reduction-plant there is
now producing yearly 200,000
tons of ingot from alumina
processed 5000 miles away on
the Jamaican bauxite-fields.
Alcan is now extending the
Nechako River power-scheme
at Kitimat to create a second
Snowy River show in magni-
tude.
The power-output will be
two-million horsepower, and
the present mile-long smelter
will ultimately produce 600,000
tons of ingot each year.
This is over 50 per cent, of
the total American production,
which reached a million tons
early this year but is still grow-
ing.
British Aluminium Co.
The staid and conservatne
British Aluminium Company,
on £3 million sterling capital,
operates three comparatively
small plants in England and
Scotland. Concerned, no doubt,
at the threat to its interests by
a possible flood of overseas
aluminium, it has been search-
ing for large bauxite deposits
and cheap power-resources for
some years.
It had some promising
foreign sites lined-up, but
deterioration in relations be-
tween Britain and some native-
controlled States upset these
plans.
The B.A.C. became interested
in Oceania some years back
when it was appointed a tech-
nical consultant to the Aus-
tralian Aluminium Commission
for the Bell Bay undertaking.
Even this additional, though
small, producing-unit must
have caused some dismay,
though the fee of £15,000 a
year for 10 years should have
acted as a sweetener.
The company subsequently
joined forces with the Common-
wealth Government in a search
for bauxite deposits and
sources of hydro-power.
. With the threat of expendi-
ture of a magnitude likely to
make a big hole in our national
stocking the Commonwealth
was, no doubt, grateful to
Consolidated Zinc for relieving
it of the partnership.
Commonwealth Aluminium
The new Australian show
titled “Commonwealth
Aluminium Corporation”
becomes a joint venture of the
B.A.C. and Zinc Corp.
The enterprising and effi-
cient new partner should make
it a pretty live body.
In a field where a £ 100-
million expenditure is regarded
as chicken-feed the new cor-
poration has not yet stated
what it proposes to use for
money.
It has no interest in Bell
Bay other than a guarantee to
supply its bauxite needs.
Weipa
'Assuming that it intends to
have a crack at world markets
the obvious pattern of develop-
ment is to establish, in the Cape
York and Gulf areas, the first
phase of aluminium production
—the treatment of bauxite to
produce anhydrous alumina.
There is nothing technically
difficult in this hydro-metal-
lurgical phase of the Reyer
process, though plant and pipe-
reticulation maintenance is a
constant and heavy charge.
The annual rainfall in the
Weipa area is 80in. The
terrain provides sites for water-
storage.
A soda-ash and caustic-soda
plant will be necessary to
supply subsidiary raw-
materials.
Solar-evaporator beds would
provide the salt from Gulf
water. Oil-fired boilers for
process-steam, with re-entry
turbines for power, would
operate economically.
Consideration of a nuclear-
reactor power-installation is
not warranted unless, of course,
the corporation proposes to
handle astronomical tonnages.
Papua
The scene then moves to
Papua, where, presumably,
hydro-power potential in the
multi-megawatt range supports
consideration for the establish-
ment of reduction-smelters.
The 400-sea-miles transport
of alumina in special con-
tainers presents no economic
problem.
The new corporation will,
however, have many worries
other than the usual technical
toughies.
Oolitic deposits of bauxite
are usually associated with
infertile country, while big
hydro-power sites are mostly
found in areas unfit for human
habitation.
Health Hazards
In production, both the
chemical and the smelting
“So you have nothing in your trunk!"
sides of the business are very
much “on the nose.” In addi-
tion, the reduction-bays are a
definite health-hazard. The
unavoidable crust - breaking
operation in metal-tapping
releases gases destructive to
lung-tissue and necessitating
weekly chest examinations.
Labor turnover, in conse-
quence, is high.
The isolation does not
encourage other industries, and
an unbalanced work-force
economy results.
Modern housing - estates
with all domestic amenities
cannot prevent wife-boredom.
Both Canadian and US.
interests report the wife
problem as a serious challenge
to smooth development.
It is a problem at Bell Bay
notwithstanding that the
modern residential area at
George Town is only 32 miles
from the attractive city of
Launceston.
There is no local future for
young people nor occupation
for womenfolk.
In view of the tremendous
production acceleration over-
seas, the huge capital-expendi-
ture involved and the staffing
problems it might be better for
the corporation to forget about
world markets and Papua and
to concentrate on South Pacific
requirements.
A scheme should be developed
within the ambit of Common-
wealth resources.
The alumina-plant should bo
built on the bauxite field and
the product shipped to smelters
located on the outskirts of a
well - established Australian
mainland sea-coast community.
Snowy Mountains Power
it should get as close to the
Snowy Mountains scheme as
possible, and offer that
authority a contract for a block,
of power sufficient to produce
40,000 tons of ingots a year.
This, together with Bell Bay’s
12,500 tons, would choke-off
dollar imports and create a
profitable business.
Even a thermal station,
particularly one on a grid
system, would welcome a
constant and unfluctuating load
of 100,000 h.p. The improve-
ment to any system’s load-
factor by such a demand would
enable surprisingly low tariffs
to be fixed for such a block of
po\yer.
In the meantime there are
two avenues of research worthy
of consideration.
The first is the highly tech-
nical one of exploring the
possibility of reducing the


Capo 1-C
\
QUEENSLAND
\
\
* A
NEW SOUTH WALES
TOR/A
"From
Cape York
to
Portland"-
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham
Norman J. Carson. C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimptori
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald. Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson. C.M.G.,. M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
I'he Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson
Manager: A. B. Tilemann. Assistant Manager: A. G. W.
Dent. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District Repre-
sentative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E, (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A, E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspeetor: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charlevllle.
UT23
alumina to metal in carbon
tubes heated from nuclear-
reactor heat-exchangers.
Tasmanian Power
The second is the orthodox
development of the hydro-
power resources of the western
Tasmanian river areas.
The Tasmanian power posi-
tion as it stands can be mis-
judged by the fact that it
grew-up like Topsy. Small and
readily available and accessible
sources, though not always
profitable nor economically
sound, were developed because
they were within the Speck’s
financial resources. With out-
side assistance the western
scheme could produce an addi-
tional three-million horse-
power.
it is not a bad idea these
days to have aluminium
smelters spread round a bit.
The big Western-world
cartels may live to regret
having big eggs in conspicuous
baskets.
Mixed Fortunes
UNDOUBTEDLY the good
wool-cheque for 1956-57
has been the mainstay of capital
expenditure and sharemarket
support over the past few
months. Export prices for other
products were varied, but
averaged out fairly well. The
wool-cheque, however, was by
far the greatest factor in the
past year’s economic recovery
(especially with regard to over-
seas funds).
Its influence is largely
responsible for the central
bank calling-up extra special
deposits from the trading banks
over the past six months in
order to keep a tight curb on
the credit position. There is no
question about the effectiveness
of the curb, and one result has
been that the person with funds
in his own right has been sitting
comparatively pretty, while the
borrower has had an increas-
ingly tough time.
This credit policy, like the
Federal Government’s com-
pany-tax policy, has had a
harsher incidence on the young
(particularly post-war) business
than on the older concern that
has had a chance to fatten-up.
The company which sees its
shares above par on ’Change
can issue more shares in order
to improve its liquidity, or
more readily (and more
favorably) arrange interest-
bearing finance. Or it may
have liquid resources at its
disposal anyway. But the up-
and-coming company usually
has everything but money to
make itself successful. At the
present time it is finding bank
finance difficult, and ploughed-
back profits carry especially
heavy proprietary-co. taxation.
In 1956 companies as a
whole showed a decline in
earning-power in relation to
shareholders’ funds. This was
partly the result of increased
company taxation under the
terms of the “little Budget,” but
partly also the result of some
trading reverses. For the year
which ended on June 30 results
of manufacturing, trading and
finance cos. are likely to be
varied. There have been some
good recoveries (as in the case
of Tecnico during the nine
months to March And
there have been cases of con-
tinuing high growth (as in the
case of B.H.P. and Minster).
But there is no evenness to
profits any more than there is
consistency in sharemarket
dealings.
Tecnico Recovers
A CONSOLIDATED net
profit of £113,725 has been
shown by Tecnico, Ltd., for
the nine months to March 31.
In the previous year a loss of
£50,770 was shown, and in the
year before that the debit was
£111,840. There have been no
ordinary dividends for the past
five years, and no pref. div.
since 1953.
The parent co. turns out
radio- and TV-receivers, tape-
recorders, powered lawn-
mowers, floor-polishers and
vacuum-cleaners. Subsidiaries
make and service aircraft
instruments and electrical,
equipment, electric motors,
generators, water-pump and
water-pressure systems.
The big change for the better
in the co.’s fortunes follows the
acquisition by Pye, Ltd., of
Cambridge, England, of a
majority-holding of the ord.
shares.
In agreeing to make adequate
working-capital available, Pye
undertook to place the maxi-
mum production-load on the
plant.
Last term there was a marked
improvement in production at
the main Marrickville factory,
and the co. held its place in the
home-appliance section, even
though trading was generally
difficult. Large-scale output of
TV-receivers has enabled over-
head to be spread over greatly
increased production and so
improving profit-margins. Pro-
duction in this section has con-
tinued to fall short of demand.
The range is being extended.
Latest profit is shown after
parent-co. depreciation of
£56,396 and undisclosed taxa-
tion. In view of the past two
years’ taxation provision
may have been scarcely neces-
n ,
ine £l ord. shares have
recovered from a recent
“lowest” of about 10s. to
26d.
Farm Management, Ltd.
tT that nllhlic : ntprp . t
I in PP J he p lan P b £ ' or rural !
development groups put out by
Farm Management, Ltd., early
j n June has exceeded expecta-
tions, but that investment in the
managing company itself has
tended to be overlooked.


Small is big —
sometimes!
&■<'**•*
f° j
/A
BELtS
f>cotcf> Ify-
•00% SCOTCH WHIS* f JS
Mstijluo ano bleno* 0
jItiICOTLANO s
0, SCO]
_ MOOuCT of
* IT COWTINTi - » HWT * n ° >9
A paradox? Perhaps! But
there are times when a tape-
measure is not the truest
judge of stature. Take
Scotch Whiskies for ex-
ample. Bell’s is one of the
oldest of the independent
firms of Scoich Whisky dis-
tillers. Their output is by no
means the biggest, but the
whisky they make is ‘big’ in
the best sense. Carrying in
the heart of it the heart of
the Highlands. Those who
take whisky seriously, take
Bell’s with delight.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
Will SHY
Arthur Bell Jk Sons Ltd.,Distillers,
Perth, Scotland.
Established 1825
13
than a new province in Western
Australia. Well-directed basic
development and production
will take not only the heart-
ache, but also much of the risk
and frequent hopelessness out
of individual effort and bring
about a self-supporting and
prosperous industry in a frac-
tion of the time and cost
required of old.
In conclusion, it may be said
that the present pattern of
projected development shows
surprising parallels to those
outlined in the early ’thirties
to the W.A. Agricultural
Department, the Mitchell
Government and many others.
So much so that it may be pre-
dicted with some justification
that Esperance will rise
again from the ashes of the
efforts of the early 1930’5.
Farm Management, Ltd., has
offered 70,000 10s. ords. for
public subscription at par, with
80,000 more under option for
12 months to those who enter
into development-group con-
tracts
The Bulletin has already
given considerable space to the
group aspect of the scheme
(B. 26/6/’57). In brief, the
proposition is that the company
aims to develop, in the first
instance, 10,000 acres of N.S.W.
Central Tablelands property in
five groups, with expert
management, fertilisers and
trace-elements turning rather
poor country into highly pro-
ductive properties.
The company will develop
the properties for six years
under contract. After that it
will carry on the management,
for a fee, if required, or hand
over to group-holders individu-
ally or collectively.
During the development
period the company will make
its profit under the terms of
the contract; some of this
profit will come from pastoral
activities on the properties
being developed but not yet
handed over. The co. will have
no capital invested in these
properties itself, “but the inten-
tion is that after meeting an
anticipated 10 p.c. dividend
any surplus profits should be
ploughed-back in improving a
property which will be acquired
by the co. when circumstances
permit.”
Each group will be consti-
tuted to meet the particular
requirements of its membership
within an approved general
structure. All expenditure will
be audited, and the auditor
each year will provide the
groupholder with a certificate
showing the appropriate classi-
fication for his contribution.
From the groupholder’s point
of view, attractions are that
the scheme offers classification,
for tax-purposes, as a primary
producer, together with what-
ever advantages there may be
in today’s pastoral outlook
generally, especially in view of
the advances which are being
made in pasture-improvement.
On the technical side the co.
appears to be expertly advised.
The shareholder in the
venture, as the scheme gets
under way, should get an
income from management
fees (though details of the
management contract are not
included in the prospectus),
and, if plans work out, an
income also from the co.’s own
properties that have been
bought and developed out of
ploughed-back profits. The
shareholder should, in fact,
participate in profits before the
“grouper” becomes entitled to
returns from his property in
six years’ time.
Earlier returns to share-
holders than to landowners
have been the experience in
somewhat similar ventures in
land-development. Continu-
ing success of the venture will
depend on both interests doing
well, and it shouldn’t be long
before the prospects of both
are well enough established.
On the board of Farm
Management, Ltd., are J. S.
Higgins (grazier, of Walgett and
Moss Vale), A. K. Gardiner
(grazier, of Vittoria, via Blay-
ney), J. H. Mace (engineer,
Pyrnble), Rudolph Schmidt
(general superintendent, A.A.
Co., and grazier, of Goonoo
Goonoo), and O. E. Berger,
public accountant, Sydney.
Pastoral consultant is the N.Z.
Loan, consulting agronomist is
M. V. O’Reilly, and Price,
Waterhouse and Co. will act
as auditors to the group affairs.
Commercial Credit Corp.
TVD doubt some investors
' have been attracted by
advertisements of the Commer-
cial Credit Corporation of
Aust., Ltd., offering 1\ p.c.
on the proceeds of Common-
wealth bonds sold to the co. at
face-value. The proceeds have
to be lodged with the co. for
a five-year term.
An advertisement of the co.
points out: “£lOOO invested at
p.c. earns £375 in five years.
At 3| p.c. it earns only £156.
Why not have the extra £219?”
Of course, some Common-
wealth bonds pay as much as
5 p.c., and are above par. But
the Commercial Credit Corp.
specifically refers to the 3i p.c.
issues, and these have a market
price of from £B7 to £97,
according to maturity-date.
Taking the 1963 issue, sell-
ing for £9O per £lOO-face-value,
it would seem that the co.
would in effect be paying
around 8.3 p.c. on the money
it actually receives from the
sale of a £lOO bond at a dis-
count when it pays the investor
p.c. on the face-value.
And, on a five-year loan, 8.3
p.c. is not out-of-the-way.
Some finance companies are
paying up to 12| p.c. for such
finance.
But it all boils down to a
matter of relative security. In
the case of the Commercial
Credit Corporation no financial
facts other than “Paid-up
capital £200,000 ; assets exceed
£400,000” are given in the
advertisement The Bulletin
has seen ; and the company
is not listed on Sydney Stock
Exchange.
The interested investor
should therefore ask for a
balance-sheet of the company
before agreeing to swap his
Government securities into five-
year deposits with the co.
A year-old balance-sheet of
the co. mentions that it has
carried on business “as a
financier and investor” since
1929, but at June 30, 1956, it
had few reserves worth men-
tioning. Its profit for the year
was not disclosed in the docu-
ment.
The prudent investor would
require more information than
was given in this instance.
N.Z. may become the third-
largest producer of uranium
in the world, following Canada
and Australia, according to the
Minister of Mines McAlpine.
The Government is bringing
out a British nuclear expert to
advise on the exploitation of
the uranium deposits in the
Buller Gorge, and an N.Z.
engineer is to go to Canada to
study uranium-mining and
-processing.


SCENE" NEAR BLASTED BLACKHEATH
“Round Katoomba at the double —
Flying-saucer burn and bubble !”


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“The Dream of Gerontius”
Bernard Heinze steered the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra,
the big Hurlstone Choir and
the three soloists through this
work on which the fame of
Elgar so securely rests, and
he got the oratorio away to a
good start by drawing from the
orchestra a Prelude of beauti-
fully smooth and even tone,
following immediately with a
chorus muted to featherweight
volume and yet well-balanced
and clear. Later the choir
gained some notable effects
where a more forthright
spirituality was demanded, but
that opening number gave the
real clue to this ensemble’s
true worth, and to its amen-
ability to the strictest discipline.
The tenors, usually the choir's
weak section, showed distinct
improvement.
Much of the artistic success
of the performance, however,
stemmed from the presence
among the soloists of English
tenor Richard Lewis, upon
whom the preponderance of the
singing fell. He sang the
ecstatic episodes with rare
fervor, and, in the legato
passages, with a calm ease and
engaging tone. Even when, in
the second half, it fell to him
to traverse long stretches of
melodic desert, his artistic
singing held the interest where
the music itself failed to.
Florence Taylor sang the
role of the Angel with integrity
and style, lapsing only moment-
arily from high standard when,
forced to the limit of her gamut
in a terrifying leap to a con-
cluding high note, she landed
barely on its fringe. Robert
Payne’s baritone was pro-
jected with power and fine
resonance.
Though the composer’s
writing for the voice in this
work is too often below the
inspirational level, he minted
a very fine orchestral score in
which tenderness, compassion
and devotion are blended. The
orchestra responded to the
conductor’s unflagging search
for the oratorio’s finer spiritual
values with playing which
always gave soloists and choir
the best advantage and in
which devoted care was the
salient feature.
* <♦
Richard Lewis
Just as Welsh baritone
Tjhomas L. Thomas earlier in
the season demonstrated the
beauties to be found in Celtic
“ —Add a pinch of salt, then boil for two hours on a slow fire”
song, both traditional and
modern, so English tenor
Richard Lewis, at his first
Sydney recital, became a sound
propagandist for the songs of
England, ranging from those of
the 16th-century John Dowland
to contemporary Vaughan
Williams and Benjamin Britten.
The big, booming high C
hung on to spectacularly, and
the high-voltage emotion, are
not Tor this singer ; his style
is centred on restraint and
intimacy, and within a normal
range he gets his best
effects from purity of tone
and an effortless control in
both chest and head registers,
with no audible “change of
gear.” Above all, his artistry
is informed by a first-class
musical intelligence, so that
he goes right to the heart
of each song, wringing from it
all its essentials ; he does it,
too, with no visible effort, and
he gives meticulous attention to
the polishing of the details.
That Mozart opera, with its
gracefulness and
suits him uncommonly well he
showed in two excerpts from
“Don Giovanni,” in which he
exhibited a facile flow of
lyricism. But it was in the
subtleties of the Frenchman
Duparc that Lewis achieved his
most artistic effects of the night
—“lnvitation to the Voyage”
sung as finely-spun as a
spider-web ; “Chanson Triste”
a deeply-felt morsel; the
well-known “Extase,” with its
poetic sensibility; and “Phi-
dyle,” in which the upward
emotional sweep from whis-
pered beginnings was managed
with taste and discretion.
Of the latter-day English
songs, there was the fine “Water
Mill” by Vaughan Williams,
and the same composer’s racy
“The New Ghost,” in which
medievalism in the devotional
sphere is given original treat-
ment ; Butterworth’s “Is My
Team Ploughing?” heartfelt,
earthy and stimulating; Delius’s
setting of Shelley’s “Indian
Serenade,” with rapture rather
less than might have been;
and arrangements by Britten
of two old English airs, includ-
ing “The Ploughboy,” with its
clever accompaniment to the
jaunty tune and the pert words.
Geoffrey Parsons was an
accompanist of admirable tech-
nical equipment and tempera-
ment.
Drama Festival
Sydney University’s Inter-
national Festival of Drama has
continued, with excursions into
the German, the ancient Greek,
and the modern American.
, JHugo von Hofmannsthal’s
“The Fool and Death' 1 tha
first of two short pieces that
comprised the German offering.
Hofmannsthal finds a literary
niche as the founder of the
German neo-romantic drama,
and “The Fool and Death,”
written at a precocious 18,
contains the substance of his
mysticism.
Claudio is introduced as a
despondent young man con-
templating his failings to human
and moral commitments in a
light of spiteful self-analysis ;
he is confronted with Death,
who summonses before him, in
turn, his mother, a sweetheart
and a friend, whose love and
affection he had rejected in
their lifetime.
W. Lillyman was a quite
sensitive Claudio, and con-
veyed the poetic expression
well; E. Garran was found
wanting in the difficult por-
trayal of Death ; while the
remainder of the cast managed
fairly, finding the authors
mood elusive.
A mood more easily grasped
is Max - Mell’s in his “Das
Apostelspiel.” Two returning
German soldiers, made callous
by the treatment they received
in Russian prison-camps, set
themselves to plunder a lonely
mountain dwelling occupied by
an old peasant and his teenaged
granddaughter. Confronted


Missing Friends
Edward William COLEI'S, formerly of
Queensland and Victoria, drover ' any
person knowing the 'present address of
the above is requested to communicate
with The Trustees Executors & Agency
Company Limited, 401 Collins Street,
Melbourne,
TO KENNETH GORDON BIRD formerly
of 33 Winter Street Mai vein in the
State of Victoria hut now of parts un-
known TAKE NOTICE that your wife
JUDITH ANNE BIRD of 33 Winter
Street Malvern in the said State has
instituted proceedings against you for
divorce on the grounds of desertion.
Should you desire to defend this suit
you must enter an appearance in the
office of the Ero+honotary of the
Supreme Court of the State of Victoria
at the Law Courts William Street
Melbourne in the State of Victoria on
or before the 1 (ill) day of August 19-">7
and also tile an answer in the said
OfMoe on or before the 2Gth day of
August 1957 otherwise the ease may be
heard in your absence and yen may be
ordered to pay costs.
MELVILLE k MELVILLE, of +O9-413
Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for
the Petitioner.
Fuil/i
Future
\
In the last financial year Australia reached a
new high in the winning of wealth from the land.
An official survey placed the gross value of
our rural output in the twelve months to the end of
June at more than £llOO-million.
How was it achieved? Through volume,
largely, for all our’great primary industries except
wheat —and that exception applies only to the
current year’s crop—rose markedly in yield during
the past run of good seasons.
For every 21b. of wool we were producing in
average to 1939, we now produce more than 31b.;
for every three tons of beef then, more than four
tons now; for every four gallons of- whole milk,
five gallons; and so on.
But price also has had a big influence in
increasing the returns. The world demand, for wool
continues to rise, and the market is stable. Beef
and sugar are among the exports substantially
assured by agreements with Britain.
Of the £750-million now coming to us annually
from rural exports, about £5OO-million is from the
animal industries ; from wool, beef, and dairying.
To the factors making for production-value, then,
we can add some less-obvious contributory causes
than price and quantity: for example, the dramatic
developments in pasture improvement, the more
general application of science to breeding, the
increasing storage of water.
Similarly, with agriculture, we can include the
benefits that have come from the greater
mechanisation of farms.
There are so many strands to the productive
pattern of Australia. Look at it more closely, and
we find that such things as quality in all production
comes into the weaving—as does the seeking of
wider markets for all we produce.
I am merely giving the outline here. It is firm,
it is strong. And I hope this record of a good
year will encourage us to take this country on to
still higher peaks of prosperity.
with her simple faith that they
are the Apostles Peter and John
again on earth, they are at first
bewildered, then, humorously,
play the Apostles, and reluc-
tantly steal away, having
harmed neither the physical nor
mental complacence of the
household.
As Der Grossvater, O. Fjala
was excellent: a chuckling,
age-bent, white-whiskered, sage
Bavarian peasant to a nicety.
Patricia Bartlett, as his grand-
daughter, was sweetly naive,
and A. Landauer and L.
McGlashan were gruffly
competent marauders.
From the high-armed seats
of the Union Hall, then, to the
Wallace Theatre bravely
armed with two years’ high-
school Greek —for Sophocles'
“Antigone.”
Whether or not one supports
Professor Gilbert Murray's
conviction that the Greek
tragedians have been
wrongly treated as moral
philosophers, and that in
Sophocles’ case dramatic
father than ethical values
counted most, “Antigone” does
seem to have depended a great
deal for its prevailing favor on
its central conflict between the
moral law and tyrannical edict.
While it would be heresy for
one —even one of the “hoi
polloi,” as it were —-to describe
the Classical Society’s produc-
tion as good, it was enjoyable,
the spoken Greek delightful
listening; and one can sym-
pathise with the youthful cast
-—it’s a pity that they could
not attempt something easier.
It seems that when a group of
young people go onto a stage
with a head full of Sophocles
they are instinctively afraid to
move with feeling and act, lest
the heads carrying the Greek
drop off.
William Saroyan’s “The Time
of Your Life” was the modern
American serving, and coming
on the heels of the German and
Greek dramas, with their
piquant images ©f faith and
loyalty, provides strange
contrast.
In “The Time of Your Life,”
Saroyan parades 26 people
through a San Francisco water-
front honky-tonk; a mixed
bag—including loafers, prosti-
tutes, dud entertainers, cops,
standover-men, an old Arab, a
• young man in love, an intelli-
gent longshoreman, an old
Indian-fighter, th e saloon-
proprietor (Nick) and society
folk —they are intended as a
cross-section of American
citizens. Around them Saroyan
weaves his theme of getting
the most from life without
achieving it at someone else’s
expense and it is of some
significance that the one to
mouth the greater part of the
doctrine is Joe, “a young
loafer.”
This theme is developed
simply, with Saroyan extract-
ing humor from their frustra-
tions, until one Blick, “a
heel” (policeman), interferes,
threatening their complacency,
and is killed by one of them.
This, too, is part of the Saroyan
doctrine: “ ... if the time
comes in the time of your life
to kill, kill and have no regret.”
The cast of the St. Paul’s
College Mummers’ production,
if it at first found the sadness in
the Saroyan laughter evasive,
warmed to a deeper appreci-
ation of the whole, and, for an
amateur group, permitted
Saroyan a sound hearing.
R. A.
Folksongs
Wattle Recordings, which
have put out a number of
recordings of Australian folk-
songs with “The Bush-
whackers,” have taken a new
line with two lOin. 78-r.p.m.
records in which Barbara
Lisyak and Beth Schurr sing
two sides each, to guitar
accompaniment.
Beth Schurr sings the well-
known Irish song, “If 1 Were a
Blackbird'’ ; and the less-known
“The Green Bushes,” also with
a strong Irish flavor; while
Barbara Lisyak sings the long-
stretching “Old Lady Who
Swallowed a Fly” and “The
Old Woman and the Little Pig.”
None of these songs is in any


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
A'o Pads —
A 'o Springs
The NEO - BAR-
Rkre acts like
a hand when
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
11 rite today for Free Literature
Barrere Distribution Company
Dept. Sr, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
GUARD
Ca^h
PROTECTA „
sunl-st(4 (ligiiiuwitg
X
Suitable for every type of business it record*
all Sales, Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full detail*
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
£Httrfl>utihg Agenti—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE ,
PERTII •
Vi. C. Penfold St Co. Pty. Ltd,
• Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd,
• Vardon Price Ltd,
• Docket Book Co. (Auik)
way Australian; the early-
colonial interest of the first
two is that they were picked-
up here from an Australian
v/oman ; and of the second two,
that they were found in
America, where they had prob-
ably gone from England.
Miss Schurr and Miss Lisyak
give excellent, clear perform-
ances. It is perhaps treading on
dangerous ground to suggest
that these old songs might be
made more interesting with
richer accompaniment; for
instance, the lack of any kind
of musical continuo between
stanzas in “If I Were a Black-
bird” makes one think of
Shakspeare done on a cold
night in a small hall with a
bare stage. Maybe that’s how
they used to be sung, but for
revivals such as these would
not a little warmth of accom-
paniment make them easier to
listen to and even bring out
their finest quality?
Burl Ives himself singing
Australian folksong cold is
very hard to listen to ; with a
guitar he can be charming ; and
once you bring in the guitar,
why not make it brilliant guitar-
playing and accompaniment?
It should be possible to arrange
accompaniments without inter-
fering with the integrity of the
words or the old vocal line.
Films
“Brothers In Law”
lan Carmichael and Richard
Attenborough, the pair who
pulled faces at the Army in
“Private’s Progress,” are here
again; this time in a breezy
comedy at the expense of the
English legal fraternity.
While the film has little or
no pretension to plot, it rollicks
easily through its humorous
situations, without, as tempta-
tion offers, forcing the pace of
comedy or the satire. Car-
michael, as an awkward young
barrister guided and often mis-
guided by his cocky companion-
a t - law (Attenborough),
stumbles into and scrapes out
of trouble with stern-faced
judges, wily crooks and an
absent-minded senior barrister
(Miles Malleson, perfectly cast),
skilfully managing to escape
the point of farce,
And when the tempo looks
as if it might be slowing,
comely Jill Adams (the girl in
the upstairs flat) provides the
"I both sing AND act ‘Waltzing Matilda .’”
boys with something to tangle
over.
At Sydney Embassy.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Desk Set”
Katharine Hepburn and
Spencer Tracy, two of Holly-
wood’s most adroit players,
team in this witty, polished
comedy at Sydney Century. She
is head girl of the research
department of a broadcasting
corporation and, with her team
(including a plump Joan
Blondell with her comedy-
sense still in good shape), has
to shoot-back, pronto, answers
to telephonic quizzes on every
subject imaginable.
The fun begins when the
trump, a bitten by the speed-up
bug, co-opts the services of
“methods-engineer” Tracy to
instal an electronic-brain.
Maddeningly uncommunica-
tive, Tracy mooches around
the research department, firing
an odd question and wielding
his tape-measure, and whim-
sically enjoying the girls’ dis-
comfiture at seeing themselves
displaced by a machine, though
he knows it is only intended to
be ancillary to their work. As
he gets to know them the verbal
jousting is stepped-up, and
wondrous to behold are some
of the effects Tracy gains by
twisting his„face into a variety
of expressions without saying a
WOrd -
Katharine Hepburn sweeps
airily and effortlessly through
the high-speed comedy; the
whole film is alive with clever
touches ; and mixed with the
subtleties are episodes of some
uproariousness, including ~an
office Christmas-party to end
all office-parties.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Eyes of Father
Tomasino”
Tony Curtis resigns his job
of traffic-cop to find the
murderer of his benefactor, a
’Frisco-waterfront parish-priest.
He suspects an Italian fish-
monger (Gilbert Roland), in
whom the audience is asked to
swallow an impossible
character —one who is so much
the victim of conscience over
a crime he committed 15 years
before that he paces his room
every night till around 3 a.m.;
while by day he is the sunniest,
most carefree and genial indi-
vidual imaginable.
Complications ensue when
the suspect gives the ex-cop a
job and invites him into his
house, where he falls in love
with the fishmonger’s young
cousin (Maria Pavan). The
denouement is anything but
convincing.
Roland and Miss Pavan do
their best with second-rate
material, but Curtis, as usual
when there is no action to
sustain him, is a passenger,
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Quantez”
This outdoor opus—about a
team of baddies who are trying
to escape across State borders
to safety, and who make an
overnight stop in a mysteri-
ously abandoned hamlet —gives
more attention to character-
delineation than most of its
kind, and tension is kept
reasonably taut as the drama of
hatreds and jealousies is worked
out.
Fred Mac Murray dominates
the proceedings, and Dorothy
Malone gives the seductive
wiles a thorough work-out.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Loves of a Scoundrel”
Elderly George Sanders, eye-
bags and all, is cast as the
Great Irresistible Lover, sweep-
ing women off their feet with
the same ease as he makes his
crooked millions. He does
almost everything to ape the
villain of “When London
Sleeps” except twirl the spike-
ends of a lOin. moustache and
walk sideways like a crab.
A Czech refugee who speaks
with a perfect Oxford accent,
George shows what come-ons
Wall Street financiers really
are when, half-an-hour after
arriving in New York for the
first time, he plays the Stock
Exchange with a phony cheque
for $20,000 and within 10
minutes converts k into
$200,000 —just like that! There-
after it’s the primrose path of
dalliance for George with
rooined women tossed aside
like cigar-butts.
Hoyt’s circuit.


The Man on the Land
needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who will conserve
his Estate for those whom, under his Will, he desires to benefit
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY has for over sixty-five
years successfully managed country estates. The Company’s
extensive organisation and wide experience ensures that the
interests of its clients will receive every safeguard and attention.
Ensure for your
Estate the benefit of
this experience and
obtain for your
beneficiaries the pro-
tection of capital
and assets exceeding
£1,006,000.
rvs
a.
* < .
•*s^v
” »V
BOARD OF DIRECTORS!
G. B. Kater (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
( V ice-Chairman )
A. E. Bond J. R. Faviell
F. B. Fleming C. H. Locke
Manager: F. R. Garland
Assistant Manager: M. A. Foulcher
Secretary: P. H. Andrews
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT.IIBA.IB
Write for a free explanatory booklet.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Email, Ltd.
"pINANCES of this big industrial group,
A as presented in these columns from
year to year, never appeared in a more
illuminating light than after publication
of accounts covering the term which
ended on December 31. During the year
freehold land and buildings of certain of
the subsidiaries were revalued, and, on a
conservative basis, written-up by
£1,590,375. Simultaneously, £978,415 was
pulled from various provisions considered
to be excessive or no longer required and
transferred to general reserves. And
that, be it noted, was done without touch-
ing another £1,000,000 held in provisions
for “warranty on goods sold” and
“research and education.”
Subsequently, the revaluation surplus
and £1,152,541 of share-premiums were
capitalised and distributed to shareholders
on the basis of one ord. share, for every
one held at December 26. The issue came
barely 18 months after the last scattering
of bonus scrip (one for four), and coin-
cided with the announcement that pro-
posals were under consideration for the
linking-up of Email with electronics-
manufacturer Amalgamated Wireless
(Australasia), Ltd. The merger hasn’t yet
been finally confirmed but, according to
Email’s board in March, “certain require-
ments relating to the matter being beyond
the power of the directors to expedite,”
“it may be some months before definite
proposals can be placed before share-
holders.” At the annual meeting last
month the co.’s chairman was unable
to add anything to this. In outline, the
projected union will take the form of a
separate holding co. in which shareholders
of the two cos. will be offered an equal
number of shares in exchange for their
present holdings. Both cos. will continue
to operate as separate units and preserve
their own identity.
A loose association between Email and
A.W.A. has already existed tor a nuinoer
of years, and, following the death of
Email’s founder, J. I. Carroll, in May last
year, L. A. Hooke, A.W.A.’s managing
director, joined the co.’s board.
Apart from some consumer-goods like
radios, radiograms and TV-sets develop-
ment of the two organisations has taken
different directions. A.W.A. has interested
itself mainly in the manufacture of wire-
less- and TV-transmission equipment,
radar, traffic-signals, and marine- and
air-navigation equipment.
Products of the Email group, which it-
self has been built-up on the take-over
principle and now consists of parent and
37 subsidiary or associate concerns, cover
electric-generators, -motors, -meters, and
-switchgear, refrigerators, washing-
machines, stoves, space- and water-heating
appliances, telephone-equipment, petrol-
pumps, razor-blades, etc. And the range
is constantly being added to. Last year
saw the introduction of parking-meters,
insulated-glass for use in buildings and a
variety of household appliances, and an
expansion in the activities of Atlas Con-
struction Pty., an offshoot formed a few
years ago in association wtih American
interests to undertake the installation of
power-station plant and general-engineer-
ing and construction work.
Total sales didn’t measure-up to 1955
turnovers, mainly because of the slacken-
ing demand for refrigerators, but by
putting £65,535 less (£610,443) into
depreciation provision the co. was able
to show net earnings £9323 higher:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Net f Divs. x To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
’55..580,484 6 p.c. 121 p.c. 342.802 237,682 4.207,569
Assets revalued, £1,590,375 .. ..5,797,944
Share premiums, £26,900 .. .. 5,824,844
Reserves capitalised, £2,742,916 .. 8,081,928
From contingencies, £978,415 .. 4,060,343
Add outside shareholders’ interest in
subsid., £34,178 4,094,521
Added intangibles, £49.892 .. ..4,045,129
’56..589,807 6 p.c. 9 p.c. 362,579 227,228 4,272,357
* After deducting goodwill, etc., and allowing for
excess cost over par-value shares in subsidiaries.
After deducting pref. shareholders’ £6OOO
the £589,807 was 10.6 p.c. on the new ord.
capital of £5,485,831. Notwithstanding*
the adjustment to the depreciation pro-
vision (in the past always a lot more
than could be claimed for income-tax
purposes) the figure can be taken as a
cautious statement of the year’s true
profit. The bonus scrip was included in
the final div. (4 p.c.), so the 9 p.c. distri-
bution was actually worth 13 p.c. In terms
of capital at the beginning of 1955 it
represented 16* p.c.
The changes relating to the co.’s capital
tend to overshadow everything else, but
not all the growth in fixed assets was the
result of book-entries only. During the
year a net £542,153 was spent on new
plant:
Email and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1954. 1965. 1968.
Pref. .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord. .. 1,870,364 2,716,016 6,485,831
Reserves .. 3,828,270 4,207,569 4,272,357
Outside interests 365,318 447,309 466,259
Debentures, etc 862,958 862.968 862,958
Creditors .. 2,315,729 2,338,167 2,055,542
Inter-co. balances • 189,026
Tax provision,
etc.* .. 4,376,642 5,291,761 4,133,128
Final divs. .. 169,726 203,701 219,438
£13,879,007 £16,167,471 £17,774,684
Freehold, plant,
etc 1,434,941 2,238,031 4,370,559
Stocks.. .. 4,167,443 6,562,900 6,292,216
Debtors, etc... 6,076,192 6,838,370 6,996,624
Inter-co. balances 144,735 682,871
Cash, etc. .. 2,055,696 895,299 1,115,136
£13,879,007 £16,167,471 £17,774,534
* Including service and other provisions.
The quieter market for household
appliances and a reduction in amounts
due under hire-purchase agreements
showed-up in a drop of £841,746 in
debtors’ balances. Stocks were up
£729,315, cash was £219,837 higher, and
there was £282,615 less coming to
creditors.
Standing in the market at 7s. lid.,
Email’s ss. ords. return an even 5 p.c. on
the basis of a 9 p.c. div. The 20s. 5 p.c.
cum. prefs. are at' 19s. 6d., to yield 5.1
p.c. Net tangible asset cover is
£9B 11s. Bd. the prefs., Bs. lid. the ords.
Last August A.W.A. followed up a re-
valuation of some of its own assets with a
bonus issue, also on a one-for-one basis.
Paid capital is now £2,225,863, all in
ss. ords. In addition, there are 774,137


£l p.c. unsecured notes which will be
convertible into ordinary shares at par in
June, 1962. The scrip currently fetches
9s. 4d. Assuming all ord. shareholders
accept the offer, paid capital of the holding
co. will be £7,711,694. On that lot
aggregate earnings of the operating cos. t
in 1956 (again allowing for Email’s pref.
div.) would be 11.3 p.c.
Edwards Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
AN increase, as from April 1, of 10 p.c.
in paper import-quotas, and an easier
attitude by officialdom to printing-
machinery licensing should be of help
to Edwards Dunlop and Co., Ltd., in the
current term. Most printing-plant has to
be obtained from overseas, and import-
permits have been hard to come by.
Thanks to the growth of the Australian
papermaking industry, though, the posi-
tion in this respect hasn’t been as difficult.
Production is greater, covers a wider
range of types of paper, and quality has
been improved. Recently the Department
of Trade said that the industry is supply-
ing more than half of Australia’s paper
and paper-board requirements, including
a third of its newsprint and nearly all
magazine printing-papers.
With its headquarters in Sydney, E.D.’s
were in the paper and wholesale-
stationery trade for close on half-a-cen-
tury before the public became interested
in the scrip in 1915. Paid capital was
£340,740, to kick-off with, and by 1927
it had been lifted to £690,740, including
86,509 £1 prefs. all of which were
returned to shareholders (together with
£120,846 of the ords.) in when the
depression reduced the co.’s capital
requirements. The following term ord.-
shareholders got back a further £161,128
of the money they had put up, reducing
capital to £322,256.
Since then the figure has been more
than trebled by cash issues (£399,133),
which also brought in £319,235 of
premiums and a three-for-five share-
bonus (£432,834), handed-out in the 1955-
1956 term. It was the first free scrip to
come shareholders’ way since £50,000
of reserves was capitalised in 1920.
Visible accumulations have never been
everything with cos. like Edwards
Dunlop. Following the revaluation of
freeholds (which preceded the latest gift-
giving), the co. last year wrote-back into
its accounts motor-vehicles, plant, furni-
ture and fittings which have previously
been written-off in full in the year of
purchase. Referring to the change, the
co.’s chairman says it has been introduced
“because the asset has grown to a size
worthy of disclosure and also to avoid
fluctuations in the amount provided for
depreciation from year to year.”
By a coincidence, it is claimed, the
depreciation contribution (£18,498) last
term was only £8 more than it would
have been under the old procedure, so,
the chairman goes on, “last year’s profit
has not been affected by the change” ;
but, obviously, that it is not to say the
results of previous years shown in the
following table bear comparison:
To Re- Re-
Apr., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1950.. 64,454 llj p.c. = 62.005 2,449 740,356
Unexplained addition, £199,438 .. 939,794
1951.. 75,492 12J p.c. = 68,895 6,597 946,391
Share premiums, etc., £50,085 .. 996,476
1952.. 84,229 124 p.c. = 72,020 12,209 1,008,685
1953.. 83,632 124 „ „ 75,145 8,487 1,017,172
From inner reserves, etc, £28,977 .. 1,046,149
Share premiums, £60,115 .. .. 1,106,264
1954.. 114,173 15 p.c. = 90,174 23,999 1,130,263
1955.. 120,162 15 „ ~ 108,208 11,954 1,142,217
Assets revalued, £163,200 .. .. 1,305,417
Reserves capitalised, £432,834 .. 872,583
1956.. 117,397 10 p.c. = 113,619 3,778 876,361
Assets revalued, £lOO,OOO . . . . 976,361
1957.. 117,615 10 p.c. = 115,423 2,192 978,553
Written only £2lB ahead at £117,615, net
earnings were 10.2 p.c. on the £1,154,223
capital. Not regarded as a charge against
current earnings, portion (£10,000) of the
costs involved in the clearance of the
Sydney stock of toys and fancy-goods
was set-off against stock reserves. The
decision to close-down the respective
departments was taken because the return
on funds employed in the warehousing
and selling of the goods was considered to
be inadequate. It will now be possible to
give more attention to customers on the
co.’s main lines: paper, stationery and
printing machinery.
In the balance-sheet the new book
worth (£100,000) given to vehicles, etc., is
based on “valuation or cost less depreci-
ation and less reserve”:
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £721,389 £1,154,223 £1,154,223
Reserves .. .. 1,142,217 876,361 978,553
Notes .. .. 304,875 305,609
Overdraft . . .. 154,066
Creditors, etc* .. 871,270 443,762 416,849
Due to subsids. .. 62,930 66,795 71,587
Tax provision .. 210,481 187,119 172,660
Final div. .. 27,052 28,856 28,856
£3,038,339 £3,216,057 £3,128,337
Land, buildings .. 236,802 444,807 458,260
Plant, vehicles .. 100,000
Stocks .. .. 1,123,275 1,195,530 1,012,737
Shares subsids. .. 84,346 84,346 84,346
Due by subsids. .. 73,383 -
Debtors .. .. 1,352,318 1,457,173 1,403,461
Cash, bonds .. 168,215 34,201 69,533
£3,038,339 £3,216,057 £3,128,337
* Including provisions, etc.
With £182,793 less stock and £53,712
fewer debtors to carry the co. wiped off
the overdraft, reduced creditors’ balances
by £26,913 and held £35,332 more in cash.
When the year ended the more-or-less
liquid surplus stood at much the same
as a year ago at £1,880,125.
Current price of the scrip is 41s. 3d.,
and the yield, on a 10 p.c. div. basis, a
shortish 4.8 p.c. Net tangibles amount to
365. lid. a share.
General Credits, Ltd.
/'ORIGINALLY a subsidiary of Automo-
bile, Fire and General Insurance Co.,
General Credits, Ltd., sought additional
share-capital from the public in 1955
(offering 2,000,000 ss. ords. at par), the
scrip being listed on the Melbourne
’Change in March of that year. Since
then the issued capital of this rapidly-
growing four-year-old has jumped from
£BOO,OOO to £1,745,500, the Commercial
Bank of Australia taking a 45 p.c. share-
holding last term, when shareholders were
also invited to put up another £160,000,
by applying for one new share for every
five held.
Financing the hire-purchase of motor-
vehicles, household appliances, etc.,
General Credits initially found most of
its business close to the Melbourne head-
office, but, after extending its activities
to cover Victoria and the Riverina,
branches were opened in Perth and (last
term) Brisbane and Sydney.
The demand for h.-p. finance increased
last year, but the rate of growth was
slower, and towards the end of the term
the co. found it difficult to fully utilise the
extra funds provided by share and
debenture issues. Nevertheless, the
amount owing to the co. under h.-p. agree-
ments, etc., increased by £2,712,116 to
£6,414,343 (more than three times the
figure given two years earlier), and gross
earnings jumped from £359,264 to
£674,132, while net earnings were
£31,275 higher at £136,086, an increase of
29.8 p.c.
As a percentage of average share-
capital, however, earnings have dropped
from 23.6 p.c. in 1955 to 13.1 p.c. in 1956
and 12.1 p.c. in 1957, last term’s slip
resulting, in part, 'from a higher propor-
tion of losses, newly-imposed stamp-tax
on h.-p. agreements and establishment
costs of new branches. The expenses
related to two debenture-issues were
charged against earnings and £98,615 (up
£28,220) provided for taxation:
To Re- Re-
April, Profit. ( Dividend N serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Flotation expenses, £22,593..! 19 , n s iaq«i
1955.. 61,131 10 p.c. = 25,833 1 12, ‘°° 18,91
Tax overprovided, £26 .. .. .. 18,987
1956. .104,811 10 p.c. = 80.000 24,811 43,798
Share-issue expenses written—off, £879 42,919
1957. .136,086 10 p.c. =112,244 23,842 66,761
The div.-rate was unaltered at 10 p.c.,
but an extra £32,244 was required to
service the large capital.
After showing little variation for two
or three months the national h.-p. debt
(to finance-houses) increased by £2.33
million over the two months to May 30
last, and the co. is now able, apparently,
to utilise all available funds, for the
board has made a final call (2s. 6d. per
share) on scrip held by the C.B.A. Pay-
able in August the call will take paid
capital to £1,745,500, a 10 p.c. div. on
this sum calling for £37,864 more than
last term’s earnings.
At the close of the term (April 30, ’56)
the co. owed an extra £2,114,015 to
debenture-holders and depositors (the
chief source of funds), the bulk of the
increase being in long-term debentures.
The ratio of borrowed funds to share-
capital increased to 3.16 to 1 from a con-
servative 2.71 to 1:
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £BOO,OOO £BOO,OOO £1,352,750
Reserves .. .. 18,961 43,798 66,761
Debentures and
deposits .. 777,705 2.169,400 .4,283,415
Creditors, etc. .. 67,064 131,265 189,267
Unearned income . 287,459 503,031 784,961
Tax provision .. 33,621 70,395 87,640
Final div. .. 18,333 40,000 67,633
£2,003,143 £3,757,889 £6,832,432
Office equipment .. 7,064 17.441 40,570
H.-p. contracts .. 1,933,911 3,702,227 6,414,343
Cash .. .. 62,168 38,221 377,519
£2,003,143 £3,757,889 £6,832,432
Cash holdings rose sharply (up £339,298)
as did, of course, the liability to deposi-
tors, but at £377,519 appear more than
adequate to meet normal demands.
The co. should feel the benefit in the
current term of funds put to work late


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
O.i. Australian and Overseas Patents
aiid Trade Marks. — Advt.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. .. .. 2/-
Yearly Subscription 22/6
The Bulletin, July 24, 1957
*
UAL
ATER
WATER SOFTENERS
For the home
In industry
In Hard Water Areas
® Steam Raising Plants for Hospitals.
® Manufacturing Processes.
& Manual, Semi-automatic, Fully Automatic.
® Specialised equipment for Farm and Station
Purposes.
FiLTRITE Wafer Filters
Clear, crystal water for
every purpose. The home,
Institute use, Industry,
Swimming Pools, Town
Supply. Specialised equip-
ment for Farm and Station
purposes.
DEIONIZATION
This makes it possible to
obtain a water which is
the equivalent of a triple
distilled water, free from
all dissolved solids, and at
a fraction of the cost of
distillation.
W. G. UTTING & CO. PTY. LTD,.
T. & G. Building,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE. 88998 - 85097
Contractors to State and Commonwealth Governments.
Manufacturers of all types of Water Treatment
Plants, both Industrial and Domestic.
last term, and, although com-
petition among h.-p. financiers
is keen, prospects of a further
improvement in earnings are
good.
At balance-date each £1 of
paid capital was supported by
net tangible assets amounting
to a shade under 265., the f.-p.
ss. ords. at Bs. 3d. returning
6 p.c. from a 10 p.c. div.
Bankers and Traders’
Insurance Co.
T}XPENSES made-off with a
larger share of the pre-
mium-income earned last term
by the Bankers and Traders’
insurance Co., Ltd., and the
36-year-old Sydney-registered
co. finished the year (to March
31 last) with net profit down
by 19.4 p.c.
A fire, marine ancT accident
cflice, the Bankers and Traders’
has agents or representatives in
many parts of the world, while
in addition to its 25 Australian
branches the co. has five
branches in South and East
Africa, established since the
withdrawal from India and
Pakistan two or three years
ago.
A moderate div. policy,
which kept divs. at 7 p.c. from
1926 to 1942, assisted the co.
to build-up substantial reserves
in its early years and the
growth has continued, for,
although the div.-rate has been
steady at 121 p.c. for the last
eight years, the distribution has
been made almost entirely from
investment income, while the
underwriting surplus has been
retained to absorb losses
suffered during the years in
which claims are abnormally
heavy.
New capital was raised last
term to help with the expan-
sion of both local and overseas
operations, one new ord. being
offered to shareholders at par
for every four already held.
The issue brouglit in £67,219,
increasing paid capital (all in
£1 ords. paid to 12s. 6d.) to
£312,500. A call of 2s. 6d. in
1949 took the amount paid on
the old scrip to 12s. 6d.
Over the past few years
competition for new business,
in both Australia and overseas,
has stiffened but the co. was
able to increase its net premium
income last term by £128,515
to £1,548,775, local and foreign
branches contributing to the
improvement:
Ex-
Xet Ex- Loss pense
Premiums. Losses, penses.* Ratio,Ratio,
£ £ £ p.c. p.c.
1953:
1,266,418 782,079 488,831 61.7 38.6
1954 :
1,236,778 754,246 460,942 61.0 37.2
1955: .
1,269,680 796,569 441,413 62.7 34.7
1956:
1,420,260 883,062 449,301 62.2 31.6
1957;
1,548,775 952,628 534,322 61.5 34.5 *
* Excludes tax on investment income.
Earnings from the fire-depart-
ment dropped over the year and
motor-vehicle and workers’-
compensation claims continue
to trouble the board. Inci-
dentally, in Victoria and New
South Wales insurance cos. are,
by law, . compelled to con-
tribute to the maintenance of
fire-brigades, their total con-
tribution in N.S.W. amounting
to 75 p.c., and in Victoria to
66f p.c. of maintenance
expenses. The fire department
is charged with the cost of this
contribution; which has risen
sharply in recent years, adding
to fire-department expenses.
However, while overseas
branches “experienced an
adverse cycle of claims in
all sections,” there was,
with the aid of the higher
income, a fall of 14s. p.c. in
the overall loss-rate. Manage-
ment costs proved more
difficult to cope with, growing
at a faster rate than premiums
to add 58s. p.c. to the expense-
rate, the first increase for five
years.
The gross underwriting sur-
plus amounted to £61,825
(down £26,072), the net surplus
tailing by £17,072 to £10,325
after sending £51,500 to the
reserve for unexpired risks (to
make it 40 p.c. of net pre-
miums), but there was no threat
to the \2\ p.c. div.-rate, invest-
ment income, up £3447 at
£46,149, easily providing the
£33,601 required. Net earnings,
claimed after unstated pro-
visions for taxation and con-
tingencies, were £13,625 lower
at £56,474:
Sur- Re-
March, pins. , Dividends— N seri es.*
•£ £ £
To reserve unexpired risks,
£50,000 .. .. 821,152
1952.. 23.571 124 p.c. = 30,660 814,063
1953.. 766 124 ~ „ 30,660 812,169
1954.. 147 124 „ „ 30.660 844,656
To reserve unexpired risks,
£13,000 ~. .. -857,656
1955.. 045 124 p.e. = 30.660 889,041
To reserve unexpired risks,
£60,500 .. .. 940,541'
1956.. 70.099 124 p.e. = 30,660 9.88,980
To reserve unexpired risks,
£51,500 .. .. 1,040,480
1957.. 474 124 p.c. = 33,601 1,063,353
* Includes reserve unexpired risks,
£620,000 at 31/3/’57.
The profit was 21 p.c. on the
average share-capital employed
during the term, compared
with 28.5, 25.3, 11.7 and 9.6
p.c. in the four years back
to 1953. An unchanged
\2\ p.c. div. on capital as it
now stands would call for
£39,063, or £7086 less than last
term’s investment income.
The financial structure looks
secure from both the share-
holders’ and policyholders’
viewpoints:
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £245,281 £312,500
Reserves .. 420,478 443,351
Unexpired risks 568,500 620,000
Owing to subside. 50,056 65,994
Outstanding
claims, etc. .. 57.4,622 588,781
Sundry creditors,
etc.* .. .. 67,022 141,429
Final divs. ~ 15,330 18,271.
£1,941,289 £2,180,326
Freehold# ~' 376.853 387,942
Advances eo.-ops.f 202,898 191,738
Shares, subsids. 69,996 69,996
Shares other cos. ■ 253,032 312,632
Book-debts, etc. 300,743 387,365
Govt, securities . 637,574 698,427
Cash .. .. 100,193 132,226
£1,941,289 £2,180,326
* Includes tax provision. f Advances
to building co-op. societies.
Provisions for taxation and
contingencies are included
under the heading of sundry
creditors (up £74,407) and
would contribute to the sharp
variations which have occurred
in the total figure over the last
five years. Part of the funds
available from new capital,
retained earnings and the
increase in liabilities went into
Government securities (up
£60,853) and shares and
debentures (up £59,600), further
protecting the current div.-rate
and lifting those two accounts
to over 46 p.c. of the book-
value of total assets. By the end
of the term debtors owed an
extra £86,622, and there was
£132,226 (up £32,033) in
deposits and cash.
Including the reserve for
unexpired risks with share-
holders’ funds, net tangible
assets provide a cover of 555.
for each £1 share paid to
J2s. 6d. At 395. the scrip would
return 4 p.c. from a p.c.
div.
Consolidated Zinc
Corp., Ltd.
r T'HE discovery of bauxite
deposits on Cape York
Peninsula (Q.) has added yet
another angle to the investment


*1
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
possibilities of Consolidated
Zinc Corp., but the state of
world markets for lead and
zinc is likely to remain the
chief factor behind movements
in the big English co.’s earn-
ings for quite a few years yet.
Formed in 1949 to consoli-
date the various interests of the
Zinc Corp. (U.K.), Consoli-
dated Zinc owns the largest
lead-zinc mine on the Broken
Hill field as well as a 32 p.c.
interest in the second-largest
producer, New Broken Hill
Consolidated. In addition, the
wholly owned Australian sub-
sidiary, Consolidated Zinc Pty.,
controls a number of offshoots,
including Sulphide Corp. (pro-
ducing sulphuric acid and
superphosphate), Titanium and
Zirconium Industries Pty.
(treating beach-sands for rutile,
ilmenite, zircon, etc.), Territory
Enterprises Pty. (manager of
the Commonwealth’s Rum
Jungle project), Interstate Oil,
Ltd. (oil-prospecting co. ; 51
p.c.-owned), and sundry other
cos. interested in the genera-
tion of power, sawmilling,
prospecting, etc.
Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., which smelts and
refines practically the whole
lead-concentrate output of the
Barrier mines, is also partly-
owned (50 p.c.) by C.Z.C.,
while most of the zinc-con-
centrate produced by Zinc
Corp. and New Broken Hill go
to yet another member of the
group, Imperial Smelting Corp.,
which operates a number of
smelters in the U.K. and owns
a string of subsidiaries in that
country. A 3.1 p.c. interest in
British Titan Products Co.
(which recently announced big
expansion plans for its Aus-
tralian offshoot, Australian
Titan Products, Burnie, Tas-
mania), gives the group a
second link with the titanium-
dioxide industry.
Development of the Cape
’York bauxite is, in the first
instance, to be carried out by
the subsidiary, Commonwealth
Aluminium Corp. Production
of the actual metal, however,
depends on suitable sources of
power being available, and in
this second stage the group will
be associated with British
Aluminium Co., which has
been engaged on a survey of
possible hydroelectric resources
in Papua. Commonwealth
Aluminium Corp. will then be
jointly owned by C.Z.C. and
British Aluminium.
Another major development
announced (by Sulphide Corp.)
in the current year was a pro-
posal to erect a zinc-smelter at
Cockle Creek, near Newcastle,
at a cost of approximately £8
million. Plant for the
associated acid-production will
utilise the sulphur content of
ore won at Broken Hill, rather
than imported brimstone.
The relatively large pref.
capital (£7,581,340 in 4} p.c.
cum. prefs.) helps the
£8,730,596 ord. capital to show
a good earning-rate, ord. divs.
averaging 17.3 p.c. since forma-
tion of the present parent co.
(All figures are in £stg.). The
last cash-issue was in 1954,
when 2,182,649 £1 ords. were
offered to shareholders at par
on a one-for-three basis.
There appears to be little
immediate need for funds to
finance preliminary work on
the bauxite find and zinc-
smelter, and the co. has given
no indication of how it will
raise the money needed when
both these projects reach an
advanced stage of develop-
ment. On December 31, 1956,
total assets were included in
the consolidated accounts at
over £42 million, of which
cash, bonds, etc., accounted for
£10,096,417:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital—• 1955. 1956.
£stg. £stg.
Pref. .. 7,581,340 7,581,340
Ord. .. 8,730,596 8,730,596
Reserves .. 10,207,886 11,060,768
Specific provi-
sions .. 1,785,646 1,898,904
Outside interests 138,113 221,814
Debentures .. 1,769,931 1,636,976
Creditors .. 2,776,185 3,673,499
Tax provision,
etc... ' .. 5,772,814 9,361,163
DiVs. .. 1,227,605 1,227,605
£39,990,116 £42,375,191
Mine property 4,224,372 4,224,372
Freehold, plant,
• etc. . . 5,772,814 6,343,689
Trade invest-
ments .. 4,129,662 4,943,456
Stocks .. 7,938,742 8,529,210
Book debts .. 3,828,620 4,912,885
Cash, etc. .. 10,182,930 10,096,417
Intangibles .. 283,944 307,688
£39,990,116 £42,375,191
Mining property is shown at
1949 valuation, freehold and
plant at cost, less depreciation.
A newly acquired “substantial
holding” in Yukon Consoli-
dated Gold Corp. (Canada) was
partly responsible for the
£813,794 increase in invest-
ments last term, the market
value of the £2,295,365 of listed
scrip being given as £4,916,031.
The group has joined with the
Canadian Co. in prospecting
for base metals and in Aus-
tralia has entered into an
arrangement with Mt. Isa
Mines, Ltd., covering the inves-
tigation of certain prospects in
Queensland and the N.T.
A “deterioration of trading
conditions” in the U.K.
(involving a fall in demand for
some products and a general
increase in operating costs)
caused a slip in net earnings
won by the group during the
year to December 31 last,
profits of the Australian sub-
sidiaries showing “little
change.”
At Broken Hill the Zinc
Corp. mined 716,641 tons of
ore for 80,625 tons of lead
(down 2854 tons), 2,000,3170 z.
silver (up 167,4240 z.) and
133,661 tons of zinc concen-
trate (up 17,016 tons). Lead
content of ore mined declined
from 13.7 p.c. to 12.2 p.c.
New Broken Hill (B. 3/7/’57)
paid a 100 p.c. div. after
increasing the quantities of ore
mined and concentrate pro-
duced. Reserves of both mines
were “fully maintained.”
The average spot prices for
lead and zinc rose during
1956, the following table show-
ing the average price per ton
(in £stg.) for each of the last
four years:
Year.
Dec. 31, Lead. Zinc.
1953 .. £9O 3 0 £75 3 0
1954 .. 96 4 0 78 5 0
1955 .. 105 17 7 90 13 9
1956 .. 116 6 7 97 15 3
In the current year, however,
prices have fallen sharply
following uncertainty as to the
buying policy of the U.S.
Government. Quotes in the
London market earlier this
month were £stg.9o 15s. lead
and £stg.73 15s. zinc.
Investment and sundry
income (£1,182,609) improved
by £258,217 last term, but
profit before tax and royalties
was down by £63,102, at
£6,123,432, after allowing
£59,693 for anticipated capital-
losses, £30,000 for compensa-
tion to a director for “loss of
office” and £1,221,336 (up
£125,477) for depreciation.
Profit and income-taxes, up
£130,710 at £3,052,339, and
royalties, up £106,880 at
£1,021,533, took a major part
of these earnings to leave a net
profit of £2,044,383, a slip of
£300,545:
Consolidated Zinc and Subsidiaries.
(After eliminating outside interests.)
(All amounts in sterling.)
f— —Dividends —— N
Pref. Ord. Re-
Dec. Profit. p.c. 15 p.c.* serves.t
£ £ £ £
1953
1,393,022 110,796 540,206 8,462,943
Tax overp’vided, £84,281 8,547,224
From other provisions,
£57,209 .. .. 8,604,433
Profit sale assets, £*7,747 8,642,180
1954 18J p.c.
2,383,378 110,796 852,597 10,062,165
Tax overpr’vided, £42,320 10,104,485
Profit sale assets, £7757 10,112,242
W/o subsidiaries’ assets,
£923,596 .. .. 9,188,646
1955 — 22* p.c.
2,344,928 196,167 1,129,521 10,207,886
Capital profit. £20,313 .. 10,228,199
Tax overp’vided, £113,874 10,342,073
1956
2,044,383 196,167 1,129,521 11,060,708
* Rate is declared rate, but amount is
shown less English income tax. f Ex-
cludes specific provisions, £ 1,598,904,
31/12/’56.
The gross div.-rate was
unaltered at 22\ p.c., U.K. tax
at Bs. 6d. in the £ reducing
the effective return to 12.9 p.c.
Net earnings covering the pref.
div. and 21.1 p.c. on ord.
capital compared with 24.6,
28.9, 19.5 and 23.9 p.c. back
to 1952.
At present production of
both lead and zinc appears to
exceed demand, and although
the increasing use of both lead
and zinc promises well for
the future, an early improve-
ment in metal prices is, it
seems, dependent on a resump-
tion of U.S. stockpiling. The
parent co. is not expected to
receive any material benefit
from concessions recently
granted to U.K. cos. trading
overseas.
Buyers, with long - term
prospects in mind, offered
89s. 6d. for the f.-p. £stg.l ords.
on the Sydney ’Change last
week. The scrip at this price
(well below the 1265. 2d.
offered earlier in the year)
would return 3.6 p.c. from a
22} p.c. div. or 2.7 p.c. from
a 17} p.c. distribution, at
current rates of exchange and
after allowing for U.K. tax.


the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
m
m
m
torn! STtfflßT ft 10. IT®. I HIM
Prices from
29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
r pHE Government filled its
■*- £2O-million Progress Loan.
But what a struggle it was!
After four weeks only a
little more than half the
required sum had been sub-
scribed. In the last few days
the Government seemed to be
getting worried. There were
urgent daily appeals for
support
Even Prime Minister
Holland, at home with a back-
injury, was called to the micro-
phone in his living-room to
make his' first speech for a
month, one in support of the
loan.
Bank Help
Then credit-squeezed busi-
nessmen were surprised to learn
that the trading-banks had been
told they could make advances
to customers to enable them to
subscribe to the loan.
This, of course, was seized
on by the Opposition. There
were some awkward questions
in the House. Federation of
Labor president F. P. Walsh
said the Government had given
up all pretence of trying to
check inflation and was
encouraging the banks to
create money for it to spend.
Finance Minister Watts
replied that it was normal for
trading-banks to help sub-
scribers to Government loans
by giving credit for up to six or
nine months. He explained,
reasonably enough, that a short-
term advance sometimes
enabled people or companies
who had funds coming avail-
able to make a long-term invest-
ment.
On the morning of the
final day £4.5 million was still
needed. At the end of the day
the tally was £19.4 million, and
subscriptions in the post took
it to £20,081,400. Applications
totalled 14,500.
The Minister of Finance
hailed the result as “a magnifi-
cent response from the small
investor.” But most people took
that with a grain of salt.
There was no doubt that the
money came forth slowly,
shyly, reluctantly, and some
pretty cynical views were
freely expressed about the
methods adopted to achieve a
success, generally regarded as
technical.
In the House a Labor
member asked for a return
showing: The number of in-
vestments in the loan during
the last three days before it
closed; the amounts invested
during this period by Govern-
ment departments ; the value
of the largest investments;
what proportion of the total
was bank-created credit.
The fundamental reason for
the unenthusiastic reception
given the loan is clear.
Though the Government’s
maximum borrowing-rate was
raised this year to 4\ per cent.,
the highest it has been for a
quarter of a century, it was not
enough to counteract the fact
that many investors no longer
regard gilt-edged investment as
good business. They are turn-
ing increasingly to equities.
Indeed, while the loan was
hanging fire, they were pushing
ordinary share-prices up week
after week to new peaks.
Money Depreciation
There has been a growing
realisation that, with money
depreciating at an average
annual rate of about 4.5 p.c.
over the last 10 years or so,
gilt-edged investments, the
income from which is subject
to tax, have in many cases been
showing a minus return.
Ordinary shares, on the other
hand, offer tax-free dividends
and reasonable protection
against inflation by way of
capital gains, also tax-free.
Then again, Government
loans have lost popularity as a
result of the discounting of
current stocks which has taken
place year after year as interest-
rates have slowly but steadily
risen. Original holders of 3
p.c. stocks, wishing to sell
before maturity, are now
having to accept a capital loss
of 10 p.c. or more.
This trouble has been
aggravated by the Govern-
ment’s practice of supporting
the market to pave the way for
new loans at below the true rate
of interest, then failing to con-
tinue its support when it has
got its money.
Investors just don’t like to see
their holdings discounted, and
they have a special sense of
grievance when it happens to a
stock which they have just
bought on the assurance that it
offers first-class security.
This year, while the Govern-
ment struggled to fill its new
loan, the stockmarket was
under strong selling pressure.
Yields followed the customary
rising pattern, though not so
markedly as on some former
occasions.
Nevertheless, a week after the
loan closed, the 3 p.c. 15/7/’6l-
- issue, with six years to run,
was selling at £9l 7s. 6d. to
show the buyer a final maturity
yield of £4 17s. per cent., 2s.
more than the issue rate for the
six-year section of the latest
Progress Loan. And the 31 p.c.
15/9/’57-60 issue, with three
years and two months to run,
was selling at £96 10s., to yield
£4 12s. 9d., 2s. 9d. more than
the issue-rate for the three-
year section of the new loan.
To restore confidence, the
Government should in future
confine' its stockmarket opera-
tions strictly within the limits
set out by the Minister of
Finance last August: that is, to
“moderate buying at appro-
priate times to reduce short-
term variations in market
prices.”
Interest Rates
If this means a greater
increase in interest-rates, the
Government should face it. The
fact is that, though the Govern-
ment has slowly raised its
maximum borrowing-rate from
3 p.c. to 41 p.c., it is still getting
its money very cheaply, because
it takes back in taxation
probably half the amount it
pays out in interest.
The Monetary Commission
recommended that the ultimate
objective should be to free
interest-rates from control
completely and allow the law
of supply and demand to bring
about periodic variations. The
sooner that objective is
achieved the better.
One lesson of the loan is
that the Government will have
to keep a close rein on its
expenditure.
It is known that demand for
investment capital will remain
strong for many years to come
and that savings will probably
be insufficient to meet it. The
Government may find it
increasingly difficult to secure
the money it needs in competi-
tion with private enterprise.
Any attempt by the Govern-
ment to use taxation or other
discriminatory measures to
seize for its own purposes a
greater share of available
capital resources would cer-
tainly meet strong resistance
from a large section of its own
supporters.
Join the 1.M.F.?
One way in which it might:
simplify its problems would be
to join the I.M.F. and World
Bank and borrow more over-
seas. Admittedly the money
would cost a good deal more
than money borrowed on the
domestic market and interest
payments would be a
permanent loss to the country.
But these disadvantages could
be more than counterbalanced
by other gains and it might be
better to accept them rather
than to allow national develop-
ment work, either Government
or private, to languish, or to
resort to credit-creation.
Immediately after the closing
of the loan the expected
increases in other interest-rates
were announced. The
maximum borrowing-rate for
local bodies has been raised
from 4£ p.c. to 5 p.c. The
Capital Issues Committee has
been authorised to allow
interest-rates of up to 5i
p.c. on mortgages, regardless
of the amount. Previously
lower rates obtained for larger
mortgages. The maximum rate
for debentures and preference
shares has been raised from
p.c. to 51 p.c.
Wool
N.Z.’s gross wool cheque for
the 1956-57 season which
ended in May was £81.5 million
■ —£ls.s million more than that
for the previous year and the
second-highest on record.


The Syndicate
PART I
"Standing under the shower, Solly told his colleagues how Mr. Archer
might fit into their plans.”
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
MR. ARCHER, the first time Solly Gold saw
him, came bouncing up the dark and
horrible stairs of The True Briton, a
stout gentleman in a charcoal-green suit
and grey bow-tie, fiftyish, prosperous-looking,
grey-haired.
“Hey, Mr. Gold !” he shouted, and Solly halted
his slippered, slip-slop stride to the bathroom to
stare at him coldly.
“Name’s Archer,” the stranger added, puffing
slightly, but not much for a man of his age and
build who had come up Solly’s stairs in a hurry.
“Archer ?” —on the insolent note of interro-
gation.
Mr. Archer blinked. “Ring the bank—the ’Wales
—head office. They’ll tell you all you need to know
about me, Mr. Gold. Archer. Harold Archer.”
He was towering over Solly, and Solly stepped
back, gathering his red-spotted dressing-gown around
him, frowning. How come this fellow knew when to
catch him, at this particular time, on Thursday
morning ? Might be chance, of course ; might not.
Any other day of the week, practically, he would
not be here at this time. He waited.
But Mr. Archer, after his initial outburst, said
nothing. Just stood there, placidly looking at him.
A game of poker.
Then : “I’ve been curious about you, Mr.
Gold.”
“Oh ?” Doubts chased each other through
Solly’s mind, a TV parade of faces, enemies,
unreliable allies. Who had sent him? Why? Where
was Alby ? He almost raised his voice to shout for
Alby, but Archer’s plump, open face reassured him;
not a violent face ; although, perhaps, a shade too
open. Mr. Archer wore hornrimmed-glasses and
behind them small dark eyes beamed. Something
out-of-doors and youthful about the broad face with
•its middle-aged folds and up-thrust chin. Mr. Archer
reminded Solly of a boy playing some complicated
game with serious zest.
“Who told you to come up here ?” Solly
demanded rudely. Solly had reached the stage in his
career when he could afford to be rude.
Mr. Archer waved a large hand. “Mr. Asquith.
Your partner. Saw him downstairs. Tall, dark, chap.
That him?”


Solly nodded. Thaf was
Rodney Asquith, born Rosen-
stein. And still Mr. Archer
looked at him in that friendly,
pleased, expectant way. It
began to get on Solly’s nerves.
He opened his mouth to say
something, but Mr. Archer got
in first. “You’re young, Mr.
Gold. Very young to have
done so well in the hotel-
business. I’ve known men
who’ve been in it all their lives,
shrewd men, haven’t done
half as well as you. You’re
a smart young fellow.”
Solly’s eyes narrowed,
searching for the hidden sneer.
But Mr. Archer’s face was
solemn. Solly nodded. Well, it
was true. So what ?
“You want to sell this
hotel ?”
Surprise. Solly’s face went
blank.
“Why ?”
Solly stared at him, tapping
his thumbnail against his
teeth. Turned to stare at Alby,
the sandy, battered heavy-
weight, as he creaked up the
stairs, and dismissed him with
a slight shake of the head;
looked at his towel, and at
Margaret, the housekeeper,
going by with a mop and
bucket; then back to Mr.
Archer.
“Matter of fact, I hadn’t
thought of it.” This was true;
but he was thinking now.
“What gave you that idea ?”
But Mr. Archer buttoned up
his lips, like a child who had
been told to keep a secret, and
tapped his suede shoe.
“Interested, that’s all. Heard
you had a good trade here —
industrial suburb and all that.
What’s your figure ?”
“Margaret !” Solly called
suddenly. The housekeeper
came through the curtains that
separated the dark passageway
at the head of the stairs from
the darker corridor beyond.
Tall, fair, thirty-odd, with
work-reddened hands, a steady
blue eye.
“Ye-es ?” The faint, country
drawl.
“Take Mr. Archer into the
little dining-room. I’ll be with
you in a minute, Mr. Archer.
And, oh, Margaret, ring down
to the bar and ask Mr. Asquith
to step up to the bathroom,
will you ?”
He walked away jauntily,
swinging his towel. Outside the
bathroom he nodded his red
head at the two solid men
bearing down on him, in step,
and went inside. The two
detectives followed him, leav-
ing the bathroom door ajar.
A RCHER glanced at Mar-
garet, but she was calmly
smiling. He cleared his throat
noisily. “This way, Mr.
Archer.”
“Margaret !”
It was a scream. Mr. Archer
stopped, startled, and stared at
a wrinkled, dark, unhappy
face thrust out from half-
opened door of sagging gauze,
wreathed in grey hair and
steam.
“Margaret ! Get all zis stuff
outa ’ere!”
“It’s Mr. Gold’s breakfast,”
Margaret called back. “You’ll
have to see him about that.”
The woman muttered some-
thing angry and foreign and
disappeared.
“Who was that ?” Mr.
Archer wanted to know.
“Oh, she runs the restaurant.
She’s not long out here. From
Palestine. Or maybe it’s
Poland.”
“Restaurant ?” said Mr.
Archer thoughtfully. “Oh, I
see. The dining-room, eh ?”
Margaret gestured briefly.
“That room over there —the
main dining-room. She does
Jewish cooking. Here we are,
Mr. Archer.” She pushed open
a door. “Mr. Gold won’t be
long.”
Not much he won’t, she
thought, Thursday morning,
and those Damon Runyon
TAQES it happen here? An exciting story in two
parts of gangster-life behind the business-scenes
of a large city.
characters coming up for a
conference.
Mr. Archer was examining
two small metal signs nailed to
the doorway.
“Jewish lucky signs,” Mar-
garet informed him.
“Go on !” Mr. Archer was
intrigued, peered at them from
close range, shook his head.
“Lucky signs, eh ? You don’t
say !”
“Good mor-ning, Margaret! ”
A warm, lilting voice, a
whiff of perfume. A dark,
glowing girl brushed past,
swayed, stopped.
“Tell Solly I’ll be back in a
few minutes, will you, Mar-
garet? I’m just running down
to the chemist’s.”
“Good-oh, Peg. Oh, wait a
tick.” She fumbled in an apron-
pocket, brought out some
small change. “Here. Get me
some A.P.C.s, will you?”
A quick hand waved away
the money. “I’ll get them. I'll
only get mixed up with the
money, anyway. And I’ve got
to see the drycleaner about
Solly’s suits. Why don’t you see
a doctor about those head-
aches, Margaret ? I know a
good one . . .”
Mr. Archer began to feel
uncomfortable. Margaret
wasn’t going to introduce him,
apparently; and he could feel
this vivid creature’s eyes on
him, studying him. He stared
down the corridor, and saw
the bathroom door was still
open. The two detectives came
out, smiling.
“Oh, it’s nothing. Just this
joint. The row last night . . .”
A silence, as Margaret
remembered Mr. Archer’s
presence.
“Well, off you go. Don’t
get run over.”
Mr. Archer watched the
girl’s undulating departure.
Theatrical but attractive;
very. The sort of woman who
made a man nervous. He
nodded after her: “Mrs.
Gold ?”’
Margaret didn’t answer.
“Here you are, Mr. Archer.”
She switched-on the light, and
Mr. Archer followed her into
the room.
“I’ll get you a paper.” She
was back in a moment with a
Sydney “Herald.” “Make
yourself comfortable.”
He spread the paper on the
round table, and read the
leading - article, - clucking
severely.
The phone just outside —
Mr. Archer could see it
through the half-open door—
began to ring, and he
wondered if he should answer
it. But presently Margaret
came.
“Hullo. Yes. This is Mar-
garet. Oh, it’s you, Rachel.
Yes, he’s here undei the
shower. Oh, the usual gang.
You know. Do you want to
speak to him. What? What ?
Now look here, Rachel, he’s
your husband —I just work
here. Work hard, too, for a
housemaid’s wages—no, not
a housekeeper's, Rachel —
you’re on the books as house-
keeper, remember? So why
don’t you . . . Yes, I can hear
you. No, I won’t! Well,
I can’t very well stop her
coming here, can I? Besides,
if anyone’s to blame . . .
No, she’s not like that at
all —just a silly kid. Yes,
Rachel, yes, I know how you
feel. Look, Rachel, pull your-
self together. Have it out with
him if you like, but don’t
involve me. After all, / never
said anything to you—never
wanted anything to do with
any of his —look, Rachel, if
you’re fool enough to employ
private detectives what do you
expect ? They’re bound to dig
up dirt, aren’t they? Like
never hearing any good of
yourself when you eavesdrop
—if you know what I mean
. . . No. No. I want nothing to
do with it. Nothing ! . . . No,
I’m not being unkind —for
God’s sake, Rachel, have some
sense. I just work here. Yes,
do that. No, I have no idea.
Good-bye, Rachel.”
Margaret banged the
receiver back on the hook.
CHE caught sight of Peg’s
low-cut black gaberdine
and single red rose ascending
the stairs and waited grimly.
“Here you are, Margaret—
A.P.C.s.”
Margaret took them glumly.
“Have I been long? Has
Solly been looking for me ?
Oh, I’ve got a ladder !”
She lifted her skirt, glancing
down through long mascara-
tinted lashes, prettily un-
conscious of the fat man
coming towards them : “Oh,
Margaret, look! I’Ve only
worn them once!”
“Good-morning, Inspector,”
said Margaret.
The fat man quickly looked
away from Peg’s marred nylon
and the unspoilt proportions
of slenderness and opulence
below and above, the agree-
able frolic of white slip and
black skirt gathered in slim
fingers, the brief, disturbing
surge of naked flesh; a sort
of private and unsolicited can-
can ; and so did Mr. Archer,
returning hastily to his paper.
“Good-morning, Margaret.
Mr. Gold expecting me ?”
“Yes, Inspector. He said
would you wait in his room
—he won’t be long.”
They watched him walk
down the corridor and turn
left, in the direction of Solly’s
bedroom.
“Oh, dear !” A dainty paw
clapped to a wide, coral-
edged O of dismay, brown
eyes wide. “He’s going to the
bedroom ! I hope I didn’t . . »
Really, Solly is too incon-
siderate ! ”
“Never mind the maidenly
confusion, heart. You’ve got
more to worry about. Rachel’s
been on the phone, giving me
curry about letting a designing
woman get hold of her little
Solomon on the premises. And
what about that gorilla of a
husband of yours ?”
“Oh, Jimmy’s in Brisbane.
So Rachel’s annoyed, is she ?
Well, I can’t help it if Solly
finds me attractive. Why
doesn’t she divorce him ?”
“She won’t do that. And I
don’t think Solly would want


her to —he's quite a family
man, in his way, you know.
If he did—you’d have to get
a divorce yourself, wouldn’t
you, before he could marry
you? And—and . . .”
“He wouldn't marry me—
is that what you mean ?”
“Well, no. Well, yes, I
suppose I did, Peg. I didn’t
mean to hurt you. Honestly.
But you know, surely you
know, what he’s like, really?”
“Oh, well. And he must
like me, Margaret; even you
must admit that. He’s been
going with me for two months
now, nearly. He’s never gone
with any girl that long before ;
you said so yourself.”
Margaret sighed. “I some-
times wonder how dilly you
are, Peggy. It just doesn’t
seem possible.”
Peggy smiled warmly, a
starlet posing for a close-up.
“What about this husband of
yours—he doesn’t seem a bad
sort of a chap, even if he is a
fresh-air fiend, or whatever it
is . . .”
“A boxer,” Peggy murmured.
“Amateur. Of course I feel
terrible about Jimmy; he’s
awfully nice, really, but sort
of dull. Solly’s so —oh, excit-
ing ! And of course I love him,
and that makes it different,
doesn’t it? And he’s got
glamor and . . .”
“Glamor! Yes Solly and
Asquith both. They’ve gof
about forty suits each—and one
pair of underpants!”
“There’s no need to be
horrible!”
“I know. I do their washing.
They’re too lousy to send it to
a laundry. They’re all front.”
“Talking about me?”
They spun round, both a
little flushed. Mr. Archer, from
behind his paper, peered at the
slim, dark young man curiously.
“Well, no,” Margaret
drawled. “Not exactly. I was
talking about your big brother,
and our Mr. Asquith, if you
must know. But if the cap fits
... You know, you all look like
Hollywood gangsters.”
Mark Gold grinned. “That’s
me. And do the dolls go for
it! ” He winked at Peg,
smacked Margaret on the
behind, and swaggered off.
“Larrikin! ”
“You know, Margaret, you
oughtn’t to have said that to
Mark. He tells Solly every-
thing. Solly wouldn’t like me
talking about him .
“Rot! They love to be told
they look like gangsters. But
I can’t help liking Mark, sort
of. At least he isn’t mean
like . . ”
“You just don't understand
Solly.”
“Understand him? No,
maybe 1 don’t. But I’m sure
you don’t. What future is there
in it for you? Unless you’re
oversexed. Are you?”
“Really! What a thing to
say!” Peg tossed her head,
offended.
Margaret was amused. Mr.
Archer returned to his paper.
DOWN the hall, in the bath-
room, the usual Thurs-
day-morning conference a
minor board - meeting was
going on. Solly was a busy
man.
Most of the syndicate were
there, flattened against the
tiled wall, overflowing through
the open door into the
corridor: Rodney Asquith,
dark, drooping, heavy-liddded ;
Rudi Baumgarten, big, fair,
arm-waving, with his flam-
boyant tie, padded shoulders
and peculiar voice; Morry
Stanovich, square, solid, a hard,
fattish, impassive face behind
a cigar ; Mark Gold, the gay
blade, the larrikin, the eternal
younger brother, cocky and
loyal and mindless; and Herb
Trent the bookmaker, neat,
dark, greying, a spare man with
a carnation in the lapel of his
dark, beautifullv-cut English
suit. Herb Trent stood out-
side ; he didn’t enjoy being
splashed.
A board-meeting, of a sort,
but the directors had not yet
settled down to serious business.
Asquith was describing his
latest conquest in juicy detail.
Baumgarten was whooping
appreciatively. Mark Gold’s
raw, stridently Australian voice
cut across the performance.
“Hey, Solly! I saw Margaret
send old Mudguts to your
room.”
Asquith looked annoyed.
Solly went on cleaning his
teeth for a moment, then spat
a green jet into the basin and
looked up: “Well? It's pay-
day, isn’t it?”
“Yair. But don’t forget
Murdoch's coming today.” He
looked at his watch. “Due any
time now. Do you want ’em to
clash?”
Solly considered it a moment,
head cocked a little to one
side. “Mightn’t be a bad idea.
No. Not yet. Fix him up,
Mark, and get rid of him. Take
him down the back-stairs. Tell
him to ring me tonight.”
“She’s sweet.”
Mr. Archer had exhausted
his newspaper, and was sitting
enjoying a cigarette. The
women had gone aw-ay—they
didn’t seem to have noticed
him when they were talking.
Although the tall, fair one,
hurrying past a moment ago,
had thrown a startled glance
at the half-open door, as though
she had suddenly remembered
his presence.
Mr. Archer smiled. Amazing
what you could learn, just
sitting quietly in one place.
Now that the women had gone
he could hear scraps of con-
versation from the bathroom.
Laughter. Then Rudi Baum-
garten’s neighing voice:
“Gawd, I don’t like it. All this
newspaper-talk . .
Asquith's voice: “I don’t
like it either, Solly. Once those
bastards get their knife into
you . . .”
Solly's voice, calm, amused: .
“A nine days’ wonder . . .”
Then someone must have
shut the bathroom-door.
Mark took the fat man down
the backstairs, which led to
a room half-full of empty
barrels and boxes, thence into
a long, bricked yard and the
lane. In the room they saw a
uniformed man sitting on an
eighteen, and the policeman
half-rose, turned red, and
coughed into his beer.
Mark swore under his
bieath. The man had probably
recognised his stony - faced
superior. Solly would go
crook.
■pOKING her head around the
half-open door, Margaret
said, “I’ve just made a cuppa,
Mr. Archer—be in it?”
“I’d love one.”
“Milk and sugar?”
“Both, please.”
She was back in a moment,
with two cups of tea. She
handed one to Mr. Archer,
waved the other, turned to go.
“I drink as I run. Sorry
you’ve had to wait so long.
Rather a busy time, now.”
“Of course. You seem to
have a lot to do here.”
She hesitated. “Well, you
know, there's always a lot to
do in a place like this. One
thing and another,” she added
vaguely. “Still, it’s all in the
job, I suppose. You in the
hotel business?”
“I’m thinking of it. In
fact, I’m thinking of buying
this place from Mr. Gold.”
“Oh!” her blue eyes widened.
“I hadn’t thought . . . Well,
that’s a bit of a surprise.”
She sat down on the table,
sipped her tea, watching him
over the rim of the cup.
“Yes. Although, of course,
there w'ould have to be a few
improvements. Don’t you
agree?”
She put down her cup.
“Look, Mr. Archer,” she said
slowly, “it’s no good you ask-
ing me a lot .of questions. T
work for Mr. Gold. I can’t
very well discuss his business,
can 1?”
“Quite right. Absolutely
right, Mrs . . .?” He glanced at
her wedding-ring.
“Rogers. But most people
call me Margaret. I doubt
whether Mr. Gold knows my
married name.”
“I wasn’t going to ask you
the*sort of questions you think,
Mrs. Rogers. Just personal
ones. You don't mind those,
do you, Mrs. Rogers?”
“We-ell . . . Well, I suppose
if you’re thinking of taking
this place on, and I’m think-
ing of staying, I’ll have to,
sooner or later.” She smiled
suddenly.
“I am thinking of it, Mrs.
Rogers between ourselves,
very seriously.”
“I hope you know what
you're dapg—l mean, it's a
good business and all that, 1
suppose, but not everyone's
cut out to run a hotel, are
they? Have you been in the
hotel business before?”
“No. Not exactly. But I’m
a businessman, Mrs. Rogers,
and take it from me, the prin-
ciples of business are pretty
much the same everywhere.
You don’t believe that? How-
ever. Are you living with your
husband, Mrs. Rogers? You
don’t mind me asking that, do
you? I’m perhaps anticipating
things a little, but you see I’m
a busy man —like Mr. Gold —•
and I mightn’t have a chance
to talk to you again for some
time. So . . ”
“I don’t mind at all, Mr.
Archer. I’m a widow, with one
child. That’s why I’m working
here. Because looking after
a house, and that sort of thing,
is the only work I’ve been
trained to do. But I’m rather
good at it, and although per-
haps you mightn’t think so to
look around this place, I’m a
good hotel-housekeeper. Some
day I hope to go to a better
hotel. In the meantime, I’d be
sorrv to lose this job.”
“Yes, Mrs. Rogers, yes, I
quite understand. One child,
eh? That’s a big responsibility
for a woman, a very big respon-
sibility. Er —a boy or a girl?”
“A boy. He’s thirteen.”
“Does he live here with
you?”
“No. My mother looks after
him ...”
“Good girl. Good girl. No
place for a child, around a pub.
Especially—er—yes, I quite
see.”
Margaret had warmed to
him. “It’s been fairly satis-
factory up to now —I see him
on my days off, and my mother
is good to him, and he's been
getting on all right at school
{Continued on page 56)


FOUR POEMS....
THE HAWK
By David Campbell
When from the still crystal of thought
My eyes look out and make report
Of hill and hovering ha\yk, I find
They do but give me back my mind.
The hawk, the hill, the loping hare,
The blue tree and the blue air,
O all the colored world I see
And walk upon, are made by me.
First I would praise the world of
sense;
Then praise that sweet Intelligence,
The hovering far-sighted love
That sees me and in whom I live.
SUMMER
The red cock crows within my brain,
The white sun rises in my east,
And blued with haze, the far hills
shine
Like tawny lions in my breast.
The lion and the hogget lie
In my ringed shade and when the
noon
Is blind with heat, my plovers cry
Like water from the stony moon.
About my heart the land is dumb
And quietly the habit grows
Of peace, but fires like lions come
And fill my blackened mind with
crows.
AUTUMN
See how these autumn days begin
W r ith spider-webs against the sun,
And frozen shadows, fiery cocks,
And starlings riding sheep’s backs.
Against the sun, the rams reach up
To pluck the purple thistle top ;
And I’ve the year, it seems, to stare,
And eyes that hang like hawks on air.
But tongued like snow, if snow could
cry,
The cockatoos flake from the sky
With one black crow amongst their
white
As a reminder of the night.
TO A GROUND-LARK
When I go out to sow the wheat
A freckled bird with sticks for feet
Goes fluttering from sod to sod
And all his song is tweet-a-tweet.
The swifts are gathered in a cloud,
And now in flights above the ploughed
Lands before there’s green to show,,
Their pointed tongues cry soft and
loud.
So let them gather, let them go
With sun and song and, soaring so,
I still may find amongst the wheat
The ground-lark and his tweet-a-tweet.


A People Without a Name
By J. B. BLAIR
time to time U.N. or one of its
•*- sub-committees hands out advice or
criticism to Australia on the administra-
tion of New Guinea, the general tenor
of which is that we are not speeding the
inhabitants of our trust territories swiftly
enough along the path to self-govern-
ment. Inspecting-parties from U.N.
visit the territory at intervals and in their
reports try to reconcile the conflicting
views of their respective Governments
and their own preconceived opinions
with the realities of the situation
observed at firsthand.
One of the latest proposals to emanate
from U.N. is that, as a preliminary to
self-government, the Australian authori-
ties should find a suitable name for the
people of New Guinea, preferably one
that takes into consideration the views of
the people themselves. The mere fact
that the committee felt that the suggestion
needed to be made makes nonsense of the
unsolicited opinion of Moscow and other
would-be protectors of the colonially
oppressed that the territory should be
made self-governing immediately or, that
at the very least, a firm date should be
fixed for the changeover. “End colonial-
ism and give these people self-govern-
ment,” cry the theorists. Yet when a
committee investigates conditions in the
trust territory it finds there is not even a
common name by which the people can
be designated! In the Australian half of
New Guinea at least 60 separate languages
have been noted, and it is probably safe
to say that not one of them contains a
word which can be used to denote any
inhabitant of the island, as distinct from
a member of a particular tribe or a
resident of a particular village or district.
What Name?
If a name is to be sought outside the
native languages, “New Guineans” would
probably be unacceptable, and in any
ease could hardly be used to describe the
peoples of a territory which includes New
Britain and portion of the Solomons. As
to those islands—“ New Britons” would
be turned down by U.N. as smacking of
colonialism and “Solomonians” would
get the thumbs-down sign from all the
Arab States. “Papuans,” which may
ultimately be accepted throughout the
whole area, was originally a descriptive
term meaning frizzy-haired ; it is a mis-
nomer as far as many of the diverse races
of the islands are concerned.
The areas under the administration of
the Department of Territories are an
oddly assorted batch. First there is the
Northern Territory, formerly under the
jurisdiction of the Minister for the
Interior and ultimately destined to become
a State (or States) of the Commonwealth.
The New Guinea territories comprise
Papua, formerly British New Guinea and
the Trust Territory which came under
Australian control as a League of Nations
Mandate and includes former German
New Guinea, New Britain, New Ireland
and the northern portion of the Solomon
Islands.
For administrative purposes Papua and
the Trust Territory are now treated as
one. An oddment picked up in the First
World War is the tiny phosphate island
of Nauru away to the east of New Guinea
and almost on the Equator. Within the
last few months another phosphate
island, Christmas Island, in the Indian
Ocean west of Java, has come under
Australian control by transfer from the
colony of Singapore. Two years ago a
similar transfer gave this country
sovereignty over the Cocos-Keeling group,
important as a link in cable- and air-
services to Asia and Africa. Finally
there is Norfolk Island, 600 miles out
in the Pacific.
Practical Help
If Australia, as a colonial Power, has
done nothing about finding a name for
the people of New Guinea it has at least
done quite a lot towards preparing them
for the time when they may be able to
find one for themselves. Help flows
through three main channels —health,
education and economic assistance. The
first two of these are an extension of
W'ork that was first done (and is still being
done) by the missions. The third is of
more recent development.
A brochure issued by Minister for
Territories Hasluck gives details of some
of the work that is being done in New
Guinea and other territories. In 1955-56
the Department of Public Health spent
£2,151,858 in New Guinea and between
them the Administration and the missions
operated 1614 hospitals, clinics and aid
posts, with an official personnel of 4591.
Health-services are being steadily pushed
out into newly developed areas. Malaria
is probably the biggest health problem in
New Guinea and it is realised that
“effective action is possible only by
educating the people to a desire to
establish their own community control.”
Education begins with the handicap
that the various native races are entirely
illiterate in their own tongues and that
most of the people live in primitive
villages. The task is shared by the
Administration and the Christian missions
which co-operate through an Education
Advisory Board;
Missions receive grants-in-aid for their
educational work, on the basis of a formula
designed to encourage the raising of
standards. Die amount of these grants-in-
aid has risen from £43,000 in 1948-49 to
£105,000 in 1955-56. Enrolments in mission-
schools have risen in this period from
103,000 to over 150,000. Enrolments in
Administration native-schools, which are
- almost all at levels above the elementary
village-school level and include technical
centres and teacher-training centres, have
increased from 2690 in 1949 to 8300 in
1956. During this period the number of
native teachers has risen from 97 to 326,
with 227 teachers at present in training.
Expenditure on education in 1955-56 was
£686,000.
Native Economy
Papua and New Guinea are not self-
sufficient either from a trade point of view
or in the matter of administrative bud-
geting. Since the war, imports have
been consistently in excess of exports.
In 1955-56 the figures were: Imports,
£19,256,000; exports, £13,250,000. Gov-
ernment revenue is derived from Customs-
duties, mining- and timber-royalties,"
stamp-duties and other small taxes. It
always falls far short of expenditure and
a Commonwealth grant makes up the
deficiency. In the year just closed the
grant was £9,370,400.
Most of the exports of the territories
are the result of European enterprise.
Native agriculture throughout the island
is on a subsistence-crop basis, with
no surplus for export or future develop-
ment.
It is now Government policy to en-
courage villagers to produce crops which
will bring them a satisfactory money
income. This policy has been adopted
only in recent years, but the department
can already claim that “native production
of copra, cocoa and coffee for export is
expanding rapidly”:
During 1955-56 the number of cocoa trees
in village groves increased by 600,000 to
nearly 2 million, and native coffee plantings
increased by 100,000 to 900,000 trees. As
neither of these crops comes into full pro-
duction until about six years old, the lull
effects of these plantings will not be felt
lor some time.
Native-owned coconuts produce about
20,000 tons of copra a year and, on a
lesser scale, peanuts and passiont'ruit
have been established —pulping-plants are
in operation at Goroka and Mt. Hagen.
Although self-government is, of neces-
sity, a long way off a start has been made
in educating the people in managing their
own affairs. Local councils comprise
representatives of groups of villages.
They are elected by the villagers ; there
are no Government representatives and
the councils fix and collect a tax which is
used to provide first-aid posts, schools,
water-supply and general village improve-
ments. Voters include all adult males
(who must pay the tax) and any youths or
women who choose to pay the tax. By
1956 there were ten of these councils,
comprising 227 villages and 45,000
people. Three more have since been
formed—Boiken, in the Sepik District;
Ambenob, near Madang; and Tikana, in
New Ireland. The effect is to strengthen
the economic position of the areas affected
and to widen loyalties hitherto restricted
to family and village level.
None of this may be satisfying to
fanatical anti-colonialists eager to see new
nations built overnight, but we Aus-
tralians have no need to feel ashamed of
what we are doing to help the people of
New Guinea to help themselves —even
if we haven’t yet managed to give them
a name.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Trow appropriate old
Bulletin sport-page head-
ing for tennis would be at the
present - “Racquet and
Bawl.”
* * *
The Horses
The eastern States of Aus-
tralia are rich in top two-year-
olds, most of which have com-
pleted their early-winter spell
and are again on the tracks in
preparation for the first of the
three-year-old events. Among
them is the brilliant Todman,
who has commenced his spring
preparation, and is doing
steady tasks at Randwick. His
stablemate, the fine filly
Concert Star, is also on the
tracks, while other top-class
youngsters are either on the
way back to their stables after
a rest or are at easy work. With
Tulloch, Diamond Vista, Lord
Courtauld, Cornelius, Prince
Darius also getting into shape,
Sydney’s early three-year-old
events promise to be most
interesting.
• • • •
Sydney Turf Club’s £l5OO
mile-and-a-half Winter Cup,
carded for Rosehill next Satur-
day, will wind-up the 1956-
57 Sydney racing season. Three
weeks later at Canterbury
there’ll be an early spring touch
with the running of the weight-
for-age six-furlongs Canter-
bury Stakes. The S.T.C. Cup
has drawn 22 entries, and while
it lacks real class should pro-
vide a keen contest.
Quite a number of the
entrants for the Rosehill Winter
Handicap, which carried £l5OO
prizemoney, were taken from
the race at acceptance-time,
indicating that owners and
trainers were more interested in
the A.J.C. Epsom Handicap
weights that appeared two days
after the Rosehill fixture. This
seems a mistaken idea: a
suburban handicap win
wouldn’t be likely to influence
the handicapper to any extent,
and long-range plans are, any-
way, so often astray.
The field of eight that went
to the starter in the Winter
Handicap provided a keen race.
Gentle Lu, one of the best-
supported runners, ran out an
easy winner over Landy and
Cragsley, who had both been
competing over longer distances
than seven furlongs. Gentle
Lu improved on. recent dis-
plays ; Landy ran up to recent
form; but another New
Zealander, Solepic, started
favorite for the sprint and
shaped poorly. He was In a
winning position from the start,
but, hard-ridden by N. Sell-
wood, made no impression over
the final stages.
E. E. Swinson, owner-
breeder of unbeaten two-year-
old Cornelius (three successes ;
two at Rosehill, the other at
Canterbury), has reason for
believing his dark-brown colt
will measure up to the best
three-year-olds over sprint
"I rather like the feel of them. Now let's try a left-hook."
distances in the coming season.
Cornelius, who has won his
races like a good horse, in the
coming weeks will tackle the
top gallopers of his age. Look-
ing fit for his Rosehill engage-
ment, he made light of his 9st.
Drawn wide at 15, he was one
of the first to begin and had
the race won a long way from
home: rider A. Mulley had
only to shake him up in the
final furlong to go on and win
from Golden Sherry (it was'her
third successive second) and
Short Stop. Cornelius is by the
successful sire Port Vista (imp.)
from Cornelian by Beaupartir
from The Hussy by Brazen
(imp.) from Lady Rosewood by
The Wooden Horse (Imp.).
Cornelian was bred by Swinson
in 1945.
• • • •
Apprentice Bob Tunsted
managed his first city win on
Gay Ranick in the Rosehill
Auburn Stakes, an event
restricted to apprentices with a
71b. allowance. Although
it was nearly two years
since he had won a race,
racegoers picked on Gay
Ranick as best of the 11
moderates —he was, after all,
placed in the A.J.C. Derby and
St. Leger. Tunsted rode a good
race. Perhaps now that Gay
Ranick has emerged from the
graduation ranks, he will do
better in open middle-distance
races. His party has shown
plenty of patience with the
gelding, a member of T. J.
Smith’s stables since early this
year.
Two-year-old Lelspec has
won two races from her last
three starts. In the first of the
two she was ridden by appren-
tice W. Erickson at Warwick
Farm, and scored at 20 to 1.
On that display the filly had
strong backing for Canterbury’s
midweek meeting, but was
easily beaten by Demash. Her
trainer, Darby Munro, decided
to put the more experienced
G. Moore in the saddle for
last Saturday’s sprint, and Lel-
spec, travelling like a winner
from the start, had an easy
win. There should soon be
more for this sister to Teranyan.
Country - trained gallopers
Jaseur and Inswinger won both
divisions of the Rosehill Parra-
matta Stakes, which suggests
that other country mentors
should try their luck in these
restricted events. Both winners
had good support, especially
Inswinger, who has won
several races in recent weeks.
Orange trainer R. Cornish has
a smart performer in this five-
year-old gelding by Titanic,
who won the 1947 A.J.C.
Epsom Handicap. Inswinger’s
display was full of merit: he
was one of the rearguard at the
half-mile, secured a run in the
straight, and won well.
Shannon’s £84,648 in stake-
money remains the highest
amount won by an Australian-
bred horse. Of that, £18,987
was earned in this country, the
rest in America. His dis-
appointing four- year - old
brother, laseur, was among the
winners at Rosehill; hard-
pressed, he managed to stall-
off Gregory John (no great
shakes of a galloper) in the
First Parramatta Stakes.
Jaseur competed as a novice.
There are few instances of
famous brothers as racehorses,
though two that went around
well were Melbourne Cup
winners Gaulus (1897) and The
Grafter (1898). When Jaseur
entered the Randwick yearling-
sale ring in April, 1954, many
bid for the colt, who went
finally to the 3800gns. call of
Randwick trainer Jack Green.
C. A. Ireland is now training
the four-year-old entire.
Three-year-old maidens have
little time left to open their
winning account at that age.
One to do it at his latest out-
ing was Barleycorn, in the
Canterbury Maiden. A 1750gns.
yearling at the New Zealand
sales in January, 1955, the
gelding is bred on staying lines
—by Ruthless (imp.) from
Maria Rosa by Coronach
(imp.) from Plata by Lord
Warden (imp.). Skipton also
appears in the pedigree.
Randwick trainer Frank
Dalton has experienced a
remarkably lucky run with
N.Z. - bred and - owred
gallopers, and he’s already
anticipating success in the
spring with Young Ideal >t,
who has arrived from Auck-
land to be prepared for the
A.J.C. Derby and other races.
Young Idealist, a colt wth
sound winning form in the


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established ISHB.
Head Office: I*7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALT.EN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Dominion, impressed Dalton
when he saw him win a race at
Auckland a few months ago.
He is by Sabaean (imp.) from
Young Margaret by Phaleron
Bay (imp.) from Haggada by
Rabbi. His half - brother,
Young Beau, won several races
in New Zealand from six to 13
furlongs, and family-lines indi-
cate that the Colt will stay the
Derby course.
• • • •
Perhaps the most significant
win of the day at Moonee
Valley was that of Well Placed
in the mile Lillimur Handicap
for two-year-olds. It was
claimed here some weeks ago
that the Neapolitan gelding is
a cut above the average winter
performer—and last Saturday’s
victory confirmed that impres-
sion. In the Lillimur only the
winner and the well-performed
Highfire were seriously con-
sidered in the betting. High-
fire tried to run his rival off
his legs, but Well Placed was
untroubled to follow the pace,
and in the run home scored at
his ease. George Lopes, who
Baces the gelding on lease from
Albury breeder, Frank Mc-
Grath, now has Derby hopes
for Well Placed ; that may
be aiming a bit high. But it is
quite certain that the gelding’s
winning run has not ended yet.
He is by Neapolitan (imp.)
from Great Field by St.
Magnus from the good mare
Lucille by J. R. Smith.
The first division of the Turf
Club went to Djaffic, who
thereby added to the growing
reputation of his sire, the
French horse Djafar. The colt
showed the stamina of his
breed to put in a sustained run
from the turn which took him
to a comfortable victory.
Trainer Hughie Kilfoyle con-
centrates on country meetings,
and Djaffic was the first metro-
politan winner he had saddled-
up in three years. Victorian
studs have not produced many
good staying horses of recent
years, and it is good to see
the Djafar stock showing signs
of being able to get a distance.
As mentioned here some weeks
ago, one of. them, Royal Djafar,
is a most promising young
stayer, and a potential Cup
horse.
The N.Z.-bred two-year-old
filly Tirage has shown speed in
all her races, but prior to her
last two starts had failed to
run on when the pressure was
applied. It looks now as if she
has come solid with racing.
At Moonee Valley recently, she
scooted away with a six-
furlongs event to win by
twelve lengths, and at Caulfield
last Saturday, in the second
heat of the five-and-a-half
furlongs Turf Club Handicap,
again gave a dazzling display
to win easing-up by six lengths.
She is a beautifully bred filly,
being by the imported Faux
Tirage (a winner up to a mile-
and-a-quarter in England) out
of Sea Anemone (imp.), who is
a daughter of English Derby
winner Blue Peter. Tirage is
owned by Mr. W. R. Kembali,
who probably races more
horses than any other man in
Australia.
Interest in Melbourne jump-
ing events now centres around
the Australian Hurdle-Steeple
double to be run at Caulfield
next month. King Rheo came
strongly into favor for the
first leg when he easily won
the Leamington Hurdle last
Saturday. King Rheo can stay
like a bailiff, an essential
quality in a potential Aus-
tralian Hurdle winner ; and it
is in his favor that he runs
his best races at Caulfield.
Providore took the Redleap
Steeple, and thereby ended an
exasperating run of minor
placings. The field opposed
to him was weak, as indicated
by the fact that six of the
14 runners failed to get
around. Nevertheless, the
Propontis gelding won with
plenty in hand, and won’t lack
admirers in the Australian
Steeple.
The connections of Allbos
had almost despaired that that
three-year-old gelding would
never ever reproduce his track-
work in a race. Week after
week Allbos has been a star
worker at Flemington, only to
perform dismally in his races.
However, in the mile-and-a-
half Murrumbeena Handicap
at Caulfield, Allbos at last con-
sented to do his best; he hit
the front soon after straighten-
ing for the run home, and,
despite challenges from half-a-
dozen horses, hung on grimly
for a narrow win. Allbos is
entered for the Melbourne
Cup, but will have to continue
his improvement to be con-
sidered seriously for the big
race.
“The more they win, the
better the price,” is an old
racing adage that was true of
Wallacedale at Caulfield last
Saturday. Having beaten much
the same field at each of his
previous two outings, the Gay
Lad gelding was entitled to
start first choice in the six-
furlongs Kambrook Handicap;
but his supporters were able
to get 7 to 1 for their money,
and at no stage of the race
was their investment in doubt.
Surprising that Wallacedale
can sprint so well; his sire was
a dual St. Leger winner.
Owner-trainer Frank Manning
will now put the gelding away
until the time comes to tackle
the be 11 e r-class sprinters
around Cup time.
This scribe had a look at
Syntax, early favorite for the
Caulfield Cup, who is coming
to hand well under the care of
“Bon” Hoysted (deputising for
his father Fred, who has been
in hospital for some time). If
looks mean anything, the hand-
some New Zealander is
unbeatable; he is quite the
best-looking horse this writer
has ever seen. What’s more,
he's putting plenty of zest into
his work, and looks fit enough
to win first-up. Whether he
does or not, he is certain to
play a prominent part in the
spring weight-for-age events
and, perhaps, the big handi-
caps.
“P. O. M. C.”: As usual,
Brisbane owners and trainers
had a very lean time as regards
the big end of the prizemoney
at Eagle Farm and Doornben
winter meetings more than
four-fifths of something like
£25,000 in stakes and trophies
attached to the main events
went west, or rather south, to
the southern States or N.Z. The
fortunes of war, ®f course;
but visiting stables scoop the
pool so regularly up North
that a richly-endowed Con-
solation Stakes restricted to
Queensland-owned and -trained
horses might be worth con-
sideration.
And Sundry Sports
Outstanding sporting effort
of last weekend was English-
man Derek lbbotson’s setting
of a new world mile-record
(3min. 57.25ec.) at White City,
London with the help of a
“pacemaker.” Jhis, of course,
broke John Landy’s 3min.
58sec., made at Turku (Finland)
in June, 1954. The three run-
ners who finished behind
lbbotson (Delany, who won the
1500-metres at the Melbourne
Olympic Games; the Czech
Jungwirth, who on July 12 set
a new world 1500-metres
record ; and Ken Wood, of
England) all broke 4min.
lbbotson had run 3min. 58.4 sec.
on June 15, and had said then
that he thought he could get
his time down below Landy’s
record. However, the chances
are that he won’t hold the
record for as long as Landy.
* * *
At Brisbane Cricket Ground
Australia and Hong Kong
drew 2-all in a fast, interesting
second Test; it was 1-all at
half-time. Australia had won the
first Test 4-1, and was unlucky not
to win this, it led 2-1 a couple
oi minutes from the end, but the
Chinese equalised with a hard 20yd.
drive by 41-year-old halfback Chau.
Straight afterwards Austiaiia came
again, but young outside-left
McMillan, who had otherwise played
well, missed a “sitter.”
At the S.C.G., before nearly
21,000 people, F.K. Austria reversed
its 1-3 loss to Ferencvaros in Mel-
bourne the Saturday before by beat-
ing the Hungarian side 3-2. It was
clever, scientilic football, willing
enough. There were hard b'umps
but no apparent hard-feelings.
1 hough Austria looked the better
side all through, there wasn’t much
between them. Hungary was lucky
to get its second goal—it came
from a penalty-kick after Austrian
goalie Ondreicska had made a
gallant save but accidentally inter-
fered with a Hungarian forward.
Austria, however, was equally lucky
not to have given-away a goal when,
during a Hungarian attack, a
defender tapped the ball back to
the goalie, not realising he’d come
out of goal—the ball trickled over
the line just outside the goal-post.
Result of other recent inter-
national Soccer games : At Olympic
Park, Melbourne, on Sunday, July
14, Austria defeated Victoria 7-2; in
a floodlit game at Sydney Sports-
gmund (July 15) Austria beat Hong
Kong 5-2; also under lights, same
place two nights later, Hungary, not
flat-out, gave Hong Kong a real
football-lesson 8-3, while at
Wollongong in daylight the same
day Austria beat South Coast 2-0;
at Rulli, last Sunday, Hungary beat
South Coast 5-3.
* * *
At the M.C.G., before a
crowd of 27,736, Victoria beat
S.A. 17.22-13.10. S.A., a bit
faster but beaten in the air and
lacking in general know-how,
held Victoria to a 10-point lead
(7.10-6.6) at half-time. In the
third term Victoria began to
take charge, though S.A.


Sflt
b
MALT
£
HOPS
0
*
0
jk
r
©
bu,
I i
i E
CO
!l
There’s
(j()O]0
in
every
glass
A glass of Sheaf
does you a power
of good
tastes good too!
Cheetf stout
BREWED & BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
kicked five goals from five
shots, to be still within distance
at threequarter-time. The Vies
dominated the last quarter.
All through, Footscray full-
forward Jack Collins was badly
off-target (five goals from 12
shots), or Victoria would have
won more handsomely. In
Hobart, in a bright, entertain-
ing game, Victoria II had a
closer win over Tasmania.
Behind at the first two changes,
Tasmania led by 15 points at
the third, but Victoria then
turned on the power, to win by
that same 15-point margin
(15.17-13.14).
“Kejokada”: Hawthorn
(V.F.L.) winger Brendan
Edwards also plays Soccer
every Tuesday, Rugby Union
regularly and hockey—often on
the morning of a big league-
game. Yet this mixing ’em
hasn’t spoilt his league-football
—he’s often been listed this
year among Hawthorn’s best
players. He played a good
game for Victoria against S.A.
on Saturday.
“Old Pivot”: Richmond
shouldn’t lack anything in foot-
ball know-how Present
members of the committee
include three secretaries —Bill
Tymms (present holder of the
office and former Melbourne
fullback), Maurie Fleming (now
p.-r.-o.), Hec. Lingwood-Smith ;
and three coaches —Allan Mc-
Donald (1957 coach), the
famous “Captain Blood” Jack
Dyer and Max Oppy. The rest
of the committee comprises
former leading players Jack
Titus, Martin Bolger, Basil
McCormack and Charlie
Priestley, and present cham-
pions Roy Wright, Brian Davie
and Tom Hafey.
• • • •
Carlton has two young
followers named Pope, un-
related. Maurie Pope is
6ft. 6in., while David, who has
recently joined the Blues after
playing with North Adelaide,
is 6ft. sin. They’re stars of the
future rather than of today . . .
A couple of tall Popies, any-
way.
* * *
Three of the four top teams
in Sydney’s Rugby Union,
Gordon (on top), Randwick
and Manly, were toppled on
Saturday. Gordon, which had
won 37-3 last time they met,
was beaten 16-19 on its home
ground by. Drummoyne.
Randwick, also overwhelm-
ingly victorious (41-11) last
time it met Eastwood, was
beaten by ’Wood 12-13 ; it was
’Wood’s first win of the year.
Randwick felt the loss of Test
hooker Brown, who early in
the piece had to head pavilion-
wards per order of the ref. St.
George, with halfback Sadler
getting three fine tries, beat
Manly 22-8. East beat a
scratch University 6-0; East
fullback Col Smee, who has
been named to lead the Aus-
tralian Colts team to Ceylon
next month, scored a try after
a 75yd. run. Parramatta beat
North 20-12.
“Veryl”: I see where big
Fijian Rugby Union lock-
forward Semesa Seruvatu, who
came to Australia with the
1952 and 1954 teams from Fiji,
is now playing with Wanderers
in Newcas tie premiership
games. An assistant medical-
practitioner, he’s at present
working at Newcastle Hospital.
Seruvatu is not the first Fijian
to play in Australia (that is,
apart from with the official
Fijian team). The captain of
the 1954 team, breakaway
forward Apakuki Tuitavua, a
health-officer, stayed behind for
a time after that tour and
finished the season with
Drummoyne club (Sydney)
first-grade side.
* * *
Sydney’s Rugby League
comp, took a few odd twists
over the weekend. In Satur-
day’s Sportsground match-of-
the-day the Newtown “blue-
bags” soiled South Sydney’s
linen with a 24-nil trouncing.
In other Saturday matches St.
George, expected to win, won
34-4 over Norths, with some to
spare, and, with 22 points, sits
comfortably on top of the
ladder; Manly, notching eight
tries to one, punished
Parramatta, 26-5, with former
Union forward Mossop a spear-
head and fullback Ron Willey
going over for a try that
brought his season’s score to
101 ; Canterbury, unpredictable
as ever, staged a form-reversal
on their home ground —at
Balmain’s expense, 17-13. At
the Sportsground on Sunday
Wests took an unexpected
tumble in the presence of Easts
to the tune of 22-18. With five
rounds remaining before the
semis, St. George is safe for a
place, while seven other teams
—Manly, Balmain, Newtown,
South, Wests, Norths and Easts
—are separated by only five
points, and promise to fight like
wildcats for a place in the
four.
* * *
“Ailsey”: Hurlstone Park
(Sydney) bowls champion Tom
Blacklock, selected to rep. for
N.S.W. against Queensland,
changed over to Drake’s game
from football —in two codes.
First he played Australian
Rules with the Sydney club
(now Sydney Naval) and repped
c Mon? ■ A ,i •, *
for N.S.W. m Adelaide at an
All-Australian Carnival. He
then switched to Rugby Union,
, . j ° } .
and played two seasons With
Drummoyne. At bowls he has
•
Won every championship
staged by the Hurlstone Park
club, including the minor and
• „ • „ „ , . ~
major Singles and the
championship pairs and fours
* * *
Snnrtincr dragnet- Tom
sporting dragnet. l o m
Cleary, world amateur billiards
champion, won his 18th succes-
sive Victorian amateur billiards
tit,e - • •- British driver Stirling Moss,
in a Vanwall, won the European
Grand Prix, held at Aintree, first
time for 35 years a British driver in
f A T^ r t h , ad V on iL
(Adding to Ibbotson s performance
& second great British sporting
achievement.) At Zurich (Switzer-
land), Reg Harris, of Britain, set
a new C y C ii ng world-record of lmin.
Bsec. for Ikm. standing-start
Th & professional-tennis round-robin
at Forest Hills (New York) was won
by p anc ho Gonzales, with the three
Australians, Hoad, Rosewall and
Sedgman, among the also-rans....
The Am P ol 6000-mile car-trial was
won by Sydney men Jack Witter and
Doug Stewart, in a Volkswagen.


Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA.
Launceston District Registry.
TO DONALD YOUNIE late of West
Calder in Tasmania. —TAKE NOTICE
that a Writ of Summons has been
Issued from this court on behalf of the
YOJ.LA DAIRY COMPANY LIMITED
claiming £536.18.0 the price of goods
sold and delivered and that an order
for substituted service of the writ was
made by His Honour Mr. Justice Crisp
In the following terms-: by service of
a copy of the writ together with a copy
of the order on your wife and by notice
of the order by letter forwarded to
MESSRS. CRISP, CRISP and HUDSON
your solicitors and further by notice
in this form to be published once in
the “Sun” a newspaper published in
Melbourne in Victoria and once in “The
Bulletin” a newspaper published in
Sydney in New South Wales and it was
ordered that the time for appearance be
thirty days from date of the said
advertisements or service of the writ on
your wife whichever was the latter and
it was further ordered that the costs
of the application be costs in the cause
In default of your so appearing judg-
ment may be entered your absence not-
withstanding.—AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purposes afore-
said within SO days after the date of
this publication an appearance must be
entered either at the Launceston District
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tas-
mania Cameron Street Launceston afore-
said ot at the Principal Registry of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania Franklin
Square Hobart in the State of Tas-
mania. DATED the 28th day of Juno
1957. —A. O. SHIELDS, District
Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy the following: Official
Year Book of the Commonwealth
of Australia (Nos. 1,4, 7,8, 16);
Official Year Book of N.S.W.
(1905/6, 1906/7, 1925); indexes to
parts 1-40 and 51-70 of J. H.
Maiden’s The Forest Flora of
N.S.W.; “Mankind,” official journal
of the Anthropological Society of
N.S.W. (Vol. I—Nos. 3,6; Vol. 2
—No. 9; Vol. 4 —No. 2); Geological
Survey of N.S.W. (“Palaeontology”
■ —Nos. 2,6, 7,9; “Geology”—Nos.
I, 3-5, 8).—6555.
To buy the following: Australian
Cavalry (1901), by F. Wilkinson;
Our Wattles, by T. C. Wollaston;
Wood’s Discoyery of Australia; The
Vegetation of South Australia, by
J. G. Wood; North Australia, its
physical geography and natural
history (Adelaide, 1864), by J. E. T.
Woods; Directory of Australian
Scientific and Technical Research
Centres (1953), by G. Wylie.—6ss4.
To buy copies of the following:
Views of N.S.W., Sydney, 1813-14
(two sets of 12 plates, each 12in. x
18in.), collected by A. West;
“Statistical Register of the Colony
ol Western Australia” (for 1897 and
previous years; Perth, 1899); J. J.
Westwood's Journal (Melbourne,
1865); The Ancient History of the
Maori (vols. 2,4, 5,6), by J. White;
The Fishes of Australia (1940) and
Book on Sharks, by C. P. Whitley.
—6553.
Information Sought
(1) Brief information on the
Leichhardi-tree ? (2) Was the tree
named after Leichhardt, or by him ?
(1) The Leichhardt-tree ( Nauclea
orientalis, earlier known as
Sarcocephalus cordatus ) is also
called cheesewood, or yellow cheese-
wood—its timber is yellowish. It
occurs along freshwater streams and
in flooded lowland rain-forest in a
broad band from Rockhampton
northward, around the Gulf of
Carpentaria, across N.T. and in the
north of W.A. It is also found in
New Guinea, Indonesia, the
Philippines and other parts of Asia.
(2) The first published record of the
tree in Australia appears to be
in Leichhardt’s Journal of an Over-
land Expedition... .to Port Essing-
ton, where he records seeing the tree
on the Lynd River (N.Q.) in May,
1845. The first appearance in print
ot the name “L‘eichhardt-tree”
appears to be in a paper published
in 1860 by the botanist Ferdinand
von Mueller. It seems that the
name was given to commemorate
its discoverer in Australia, though it
is not known whether Mueller first
suggested it or picked it up from
local usage. (Information from
Queensland Government Botanist.)
* * * *
(1) Was the actor Oscar Asche
born in Australia ? If not, what
country? (2) Something as to his
early acting appearances ? (3) How
"I'd love to come, but I haven't a thing to Wear.”
many visits did he make from Lon-
don to Australia, with, roughly, the
plays he presented on each occasion ?
(4) What was the length of “Chu-
Chin-Chow’s” run in London ?
(1) Oscar Asche was born at
Geelong (Victoria), of Norwegian
descent. Serle’s Dictionary of Aus-
tralian Biography gives the date ot
his birth as Jan. 26, 1871, while
Who’s Who in the Theatre gives it
as June 26, 1872. (2) After going
to Norway to study acting, and
being advised by Ibsen to work in
his own language, he settled in Lon-
don, and continued to study. On
March 25, 1893, he made his first
appearance on the stage at the
Opera Comique Theatre, London, as
Roberts in "Man and Woman.” He
then joined F. R. Benson, with whom
he remained eight years, playing
numerous parts in the Shakspearian
and Old Comedy repertory presented
bv that manager. (He married Lily
Brayton, another member of the
company, and the two were
associated in most productions for
many years.) He joined Sir Herbert
Tree in February, 1902, beginning
as Antinous in “Ulysses,” followed
by Ford in “The Merry Wives ot
Windsor.” For a listing of his
main roles thereafter, see Who’s
Who in the Theatre■ (3) He made his
first tour of Australia in 1909-10,
appearing as Petruchio, Othello,
Shylock, etc. In 1912-13 he again
visited Australia, adding “Kismet,”
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream” and
“Antony and Cleopatra” to his
earlier successes. In 1922 came his
third Australian tour, in which he
played “Chu-Chin-Chow,” “Cairo”
(both of them hut own plays),
Maldonado in Pinero’s “Iris,” Horn-
blower in Galsworthy’s “The Skin
Game,” etc. (4) “Chu-Chin-Chow”
ran at His Majesty’s from Aug. 31,
1916, to July 22, 1921—2238
performances.
* * * *
What, if any, is the sales-tax and
export-tax on motor-vehicles and
tractors exported from the United
Kingdom to Australia and New
Zealand ?
(From the Department of Trade.)
Goods exported from the U.K. to
any destination are exempt from
purchase-tax (sales-tax), if exported
direct from factory or warehouse.
Motor-vehicles taken out by a
departing passenger are also exempt
under specified conditions. There
is no export-tax (other than pur-
chase-tax) on goods exported from
.he U.K..
* * * *
Can you suggest a niethod of
cleaning an oil-painting spoilt by
<s■»• <*** f h z ed a
c Jose proximity to the sea, and a
couple of co taw ater-paint splashes
m corner positions ?
Remove dust with a soft cloth,
then gently clean the painting with
a cloth moistened with rainwater
Finish with a light cleaning with
a cloth moistened with raw linseed-
oil, and rub gently until the sur-
face is clean and dry. The paint-
spjashes should be damped with
rainwater or linseed-oil, left a while,
then scraped with the point of a
small knife. If they don’t respond,
you’re in trouble: only the makers
ol the particular paint used could
tell you its solvent. Great care
is necessary to avoid damage. If
the picture is not very large, it may
be advisable to consider reframing
it under glass for its protection —
after it has been cleaned, of course.
Brief Answers
Comadai: Under the conditions
given, the bullet would miss the
bottle. It would hit the ground at
a spot approximately below the point
from which it was fired.... F.D.: (1)
As given in Miller and Macartney’s
Australian Literature, George
Sargant wrote three works of fiction
—The Sweet Heart of the Bush
(1915), The Winding Track (1920)
and My Inland Island (1921). (2)
Unable to trace.. . .N.L.E.: Fergus
Hume’s full name, also according to
Australian Literature, was “appar-
ently Ferguson Wright Hume.” As
such it was given by Hume’s sister
to the “Otago Daily Times” when
he died (1932)... .A.E.S.: (1) and
(2) Write Angus and Robertson, 89
Castlereagh-street, Sydney....
W.D.: Origins of Religion and
Language, by F. C. Cook (1884),
The Theory of Speech and Language,
by A. H. Gardiner (1932), and
Aspects of Language, by William
James E ntwistle (1953), all available
a( Sydney Public Library, should be
helpful Stan: Heights of the
three TV transmitting-aerials in
Sydney are—Channel 2,500 ft.;
q’ ssnrt sea-level;
t j on re adily available as to the
employment of convicts in the
district. Write Royal Australian
Historical Society, 8 Young Street,
Sydney, which may be able to help.
P.K.: Write Sydney Public
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney


MORE FOR YOUR MONEY IN STYLE ..„
More for your money
in family motoring, too ..
LOOKOUT
AITITU9E
2.652 FEET
m
?5S
r ,
m
m
-v c
\ v ' *#***?/ j
i &SssSBssSi
i
V—
m
m
m
= w
,J 6
From glamorous styling to most
advanced engineering features Holden
gives you more for your money in
family motoring.
For instance, there’s the way the
beautifully balanced Holden gives you
a great new “straight-ahead” feeling
of solidity and control, even in the
tightest turn, through its ball type
steering and front stabiliser bar.
Then the whole family will appre-
ciate Holden’s gracious comfort —the
wide, deeply soft seating for six, the
surprisingly ample head and leg room
and large luggage space ... and the
cushioned way Holden rides steadily
over the roughest roads.
Power and Economy
Holden’s smooth 6 cylinder 70 gross
brake horse-power engine easily masters
the steepest grades, giving you a
flexibility that keeps gear changing to
a minimum and makes Holden a dream
to drive.
Financially, too, you benefit when
you buy Holden. Low first cost,
(from £910) money saving in oper-
ation and maintenance and a consist-
ently high resale value all play their
part in making Holden Australia’s
best family car value.
Drive Holden yourself discover
all the excellent features that have
made Holden Australia’s sales leader,
find out for yourself how much more
Holden gives you for your money.
HOLDEN""
Frcm £9lO Plus Tax
Convenient GMAC hire purchase arrangements act
available. “Air Chief” is the radio approved by
GMH for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced bv Holden Dealers throuBhout_Ausn[alji»_______^^_ -i Dtg^
—though it is rather doubtful
whether a copy of the book is
available either there or at other
Australian public libraries
H.F.8.: In January, 1941, the
Federal Government closed-down
2HD (Newcastle), 4AT (Atherton,
Q.), SKA (Adelaide) and SAU (Port
Augusta). W. M. Hughes, then
Federal Attorney - General and
Minister for the Navy, denied that
the Government's action had any-
thing to do with the sentencing, just
beforehand, of five Jehovah’s
Witnesses (one of whom was an
announcer at 2HD) for their refusal
to take the oath when called-up for
home-sei vice. He said the stations
had been closed at the request of
the Naval Department because it was
believed that, through the stations,
information had been supplied to
the enemy—though not deliberately.
The Bulletin commented (B.
15/1/’4l) that “Billy has been
dashed vague about it in an
extremely wordy way.” The
licences of the four stations were
revoked on Feb. 7, 1941....
P.P.: (1) At June 30, 1956, the
total number in the Federal public
service was 153,600. The total
salaries, wages, etc., of the
Federal public service for the year
ended June 30, 1956, ' was
£144,455,232. (2) Obviously the duty
of each one is to run a particular
section of the public service.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS No liability is under-
taken e contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should he addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered lor publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
K.S.: Your sonnet may have been
“Dictated by a tardy heartfelt
urge,” but you'll never get anywhere
in that antiquated style... .E.R. :
Your dogs are pleasant but too
thin R.P.: Better than most city-
v. country efforts.. . .A.E.N.: Pony-
poem might do for children; not
enough in it for us... .Bob H.: Too
many words and most of them old-
fashioned ; but, revised, there are
possibilities in the stanza about
Jamtin Jack... .G.S.: Can t
possibly shoot this out:
.../rW.A.: Didn’t fancy “Nancy.”
J.H.: “Too Bad!” Indeed! ....
W.J.A.: “Epical,” perhaps, but not
“intellectual”... .J.M.: The “gentle
doe-eyed osprey” fluttered out the
window. ~ .L.K.E.: “The Rum-
makers” spiritless... .M.D.: Full of
“sylvan glades” and sundry ill-
rhymed things of the bush
L.F.: So the Harbor Bridge is a
“steel spanner flung o’er glaucous
depths’’? A-L: “Carillon”
didn’t ring true T.F.T.:
Bounces along like an off-course
golf-ball D.D.: A watery goulash
of faces, places and anecdotes....
Mick: Bit thick, Mick 8.J.:
Crude as raw petroleum P.T.:
The rotting carcass of that whale
was a shade high... .K.R.: “The
Angler’s Gumboots” had holes
in them R.S.M.: “I wrote this
when I was at school.” During a
Maths, lesson? ... .E.G.: Hopeless.
W.McT.: Suggest you blister
“The Crock” and turn him out to
grass.. . .S.L.: Girls! E.V.: Dry
as a bone L.D.: “Tout” out.
. ...J.H.G.: Insipid.... R.Y.T.:
“The Naturalist” was last sighted
studying insect-life in the strato-
sphere... .D.R.T.: Admonished the
“Runaway Skoolboy” and packed
him off home G.F.: Shuddered
at “Salvation”... .R.T.Y.: Not for
us the story of the millionaire with
an inferiority-complex and a dislike
for women... .W.E.: Little to
either... .K.F.S.: Has a hidden
song; have another go at it....
J.E.D.: “High Treason” has
rendered you slightly incoherent... ._
D.R.E.: Restrictions on bank-
credit hardly a subject for poetry.
M.S.T.: Don’t till your
characters’ mouths with platitudes.
R.F.F.: Just what do you mean
by “the powdered puff-blue bottle-
tossing s urge ”?....F.K.:
“Geometry” was best, and it missed
by a wide tangent A.W.: Four
pages on what persimmons taste
like ! W.M.M.: “Slaughter”
butchered... .T. 8.0 .: You need a
few spelling-lessons... .8.M.8.:
“Dejected, oh, dejected” rejected....
1.L.: Your boss wouldn’t appreciate
that story... .D.H.: “The Torrent”
was a muddy trickle... .H.D.M.:
The swag-humping old-timer man-
aged to hobble as fhr as the basket.
... .J.J.8.: “Bluey” is as old as the
Blue Mountains.... 8.A.: “I’m
sorry it’s not typed.” Well, it
wouldn’t make much difference....
F.C.: Sheer nonsense... .S.N.:
“Celery” too stringy.
But, like a moth attracted to the flame,
My eyes back to that lighted window
came -
A man and woman locked in close
embrace,
No need had I to see her lovely face,
To know it • was my wife. By her red
hair,
And by her dress, I’d know her
anywhere.
So, all my vague suspicions were
confirmed;
My shoulders ’cross the window-sill I
squirmed,
I raised the gun, the shots rang loud
and clear;
And with the silence came the breach
of fear.
Oh, God ! That body lying on the floor;
the face;
Belongs to some unknown, it is not
Grace.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
NASSER SUPPING?
r F'HE Lebanese elections being
■*- taken as a pointer to the
effectiveness or otherwise of
U.S. Middle East policy “a
plebiscite on the [Eisenhower]
doctrine,” as “New York
Times” puts it—the overwhelm-
ing victory of the pro-Western
Government is regarded as one
up for Uncle Sam and a tap on
the snoot for the Communist
and Egyptian elements.
Comments “New York
Times” again, “The Govern-
ment, which accepted and
espoused the [Eisenhower]
doctrine, has won 50 out of a
total of 66 seats in the new
Parliament and on foreign
policy can also count on the
support of three pro-Western
independents. The opposition,
which denounced the doctrine,
with open backing by Soviet
and Egyptian fifth-columns,
could capture only 13 seats.
Where the issue was dramatised
by such a well-known pro-
Western personality as Foreign
Minister Malik, Lebanon’s
long-time representative in the
United Nations, the Govern-
ment policy won by nearly 50
to 1.”
London “News Chronicle”
also notes that “it is only fair
to admit” that the “initiative [in
the Middle East] which Britain
forfeited last ' autumn has
passed to the United States and
it has not been mishandled”:
“Nasser's open ambition to
lead the Arab States with un-
disputed power has at least
been checked. The pedestal
now shows serious signs of
wear.
“President Eisenhower has
been repeating a technique he
first employed on Senator Mc-
Carthy. He refused the method
of direct attack. Instead the
President slowly isolated the
Senator from the factions that
suoported him ; and once the
pillars had gone, McCarthyism
itself began to crumble.
“Much the same has been
happening in the Middle East.
Support for Nasser has
decreased. The violent threats
to Israel have had to be
diluted. The Baghdad Pact is
rather stronger than it was and
even Jordan has been able to
defy Egypt through public
diplomatic channels.”
To which London “Daily
Telegraph” adds that “when
allowance is made for all the
electoral peculiarities of the
Lebanon —the balance between
Christians and Moslems and
between the various sects, and
the force of family loyalties—
the result [of the election] is still
a plain advertisement by the
shrewdest of Middle Easterners
London “Daily Mail”
COMING DOWN TO EARTH
that they believe Nasser's
influence is waning.
“Politically, Egypt is almost
isolated ; Syria and the primi-
tive Yemen remain her only
satellites. If King Saud has not
openly broken with Nasser, he
has done so with Nasser’s
Syrian friends; he has joined
hands with Egypt’s rival, Irak,
and both have backed Jordan
against Egyptian penetration.
“But resistant Kings and
Governments have not been
able to wrest from Nasser’s
hands the weapon of subver-
sion which he possesses by
virtue of Egypt’s relative tech-
nical superiority. It is Cairo
Radio that shouts loudest in
every Middle East coffee-shop.
And although Nasser’s military
attaches are being expelled
from one country after another,
some 1800 Egyptian teachers
remain to spread his doctrine.”
Hungary and U.N.
Commenting editorially on
the U.N. Assembly’s delay in
considering the report of the
U.N.’s fact-finding committee
on Soviet intervention in
Hungary—it will not be taken
up until the next regularly
scheduled meeting, set to open
on September 17 —New York
“Herald Tribune” holds that
“there has been enough delay,
caused by the fact that the
Soviet puppets in Budapest
refused to allow investigators
to enter the country”:
“And the two additional
months will only give the
Muscovite rulers of Hungary
more time to deport to Siberia
extra thousands of those who
believe in freedom and liberty ;
to execute or otherwise elimi-
nate the courageous men and
women who, unable or un-
willing to flee the country,
stand accused of having fought
for independence.
“The International Labor
Organisation, an agency of the
U.N., at its recent meeting in
Geneva voted to oust the
Hungarian representatives on
the grounds that they were
puppets of the Soviet Union
sent by an illegal regime. The
U.N. should not delay in
taking action against both the
U.S.S.R. and the Kadar
Government.
“It acted promptly enough
in the case of the attack against
Egypt, which might very well
be said to have been provoked
by Egypt’s own actions, and
Israel, France and Great
Britain agreed to withdraw and
abide by the U.N.’s decision.
“There is no excuse for
further de'ay in considering the
flagrant violation of Hungary’s
Territory and the deposition of
its legitimate Government by
the Soviet Union. If there are
to be two standards of justice,
one for the Western demo-
cracies, and another for the
Communist nations, the U.N.
might as well close-up shop.”
Wool Review
Bradford “Wool Record”
review of the 1956-57 wool
season:
“For the wool produced it
[the season] brought rewards
greater than in any previous
season apart from the Korean
boom year of 1950-51. For the
wool-textile industry of the
world it marked a high-water
level of market demand and
machinery activity. For the
whole of the wool community,
therefore, season 1956-57 can
justifiably be recorded in trade
history as most satisfactory and
encouraging. Its most
significant lesson was that,
despite increasingly severe com-
petition from other fibres and
other commodities, wool con-
tinues to maintain itself in the
regard of the buyer, who has
shown a gratifying readiness to
avail himself of the larger sup-
plies coming on to the market.
“Thus the growers of the
Commonwealth have amply
demonstrated the soundness of
their declared policy to pro-
duce more and better wool at
reasonable prices. This season
has not yielded for them the
phenomenal profits of 1950-51 ;


&
?/.
11-1
XU.
11l
i ? V MB.
\ Jr
j:,
i
/!• ••>'
as:
V..,
<-y£y.-
m
mm -
>■ V'V''• s y.'
Nothing could
be finer . • •
Take a length of the finest,
pure wool cloth you can find
in Australia.
Look for a tailor
whose fingers have all the magic
of an old-time craftsman.
, Bring them together,
and what’s the result ?
Stamina De Luxe Slacks.
Fine Slacks, these
Australia’s best.
CLOTHES
TB.II>
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
but what grower would wish
to see a return to the conditions
of that boom-and-slump period,
when production costs soared
almost as fast as prices and the
future held no security once
the war scare had receded?
“Nowadays the Dominion
producers can feel comfortable
in the knowledge that demand
for their staple is firmly based
on normal peace-time needs.
The contrast between the two
periods is sharply pointed by
the fact that in the past 12
months the United States,
which was primarily respon-
sible for the absurdly high
prices of 1950-51, has been
a relatively minor influence
in Commonwealth markets,
while Japan and other Asian
countries have become increas-
ingly important.
“Australia is convinced that
Japan, India, China and
Formosa together constitute a
market of immense
potentialities: she is prepared
to offer reciprocal benefits to
encourage those countries to
buy her wool. And, while the
British wool industry—once
again Australia’s best customer,
with purchases costing more
than £AIOO million this season
—may feel hurt at her attitude,
the growers are no doubt look-
ing to the long-term future.
Next season they will be
marketing a clip approaching
five-million bales; it has been
confidently predicted that in
the next five years that figure
will rise to more than six-
million bales. Can it be pre-
tended that the wool industry
of Britain and Western Europe
will expand its consumption
sufficiently to guarantee the
Commonwealth growers a
market for that extra million-
and-a-half bales?
“The most pleasing feature
of wool-consumption in the
past year is its uniform
improvement in all parts of the
world. Never has demand been
so broadly-based. Moreover,
there seems to be little danger
of any serious deterioration in
this situation unless the world
political and economic picture
changes for the worse. Though
Australia would be unwise to
lay too much store by the
prospective wool needs of
Japan and India, the indica-
tions elsewhere are of continu-
ous, if unspectacular, expan-
sion. The creation of a free-
trade area in Europe may well
provide a new stimulus to
business in wool textiles.
Besides the buoyant demand of
long-standing buyers like
Britain, France, Italy and
Belgium, there is the rising


THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
AUSTRALIA'S LARGEST &
MOST FRIENDLY HOTEL
At The Hotel Metropole, you enjoy
“home comfort” plus service and
hospitality. Ideally situated in the
heart of the city—close to transport,
theatres, and business centre, at the
same time possessing the quiet
friendly comfort which allows you
tc rest and relax. The Hotel
Metropole has more than 400 bed-
rooms (50 with private bathrooms);
five colourful, well - appointed
banquet rooms suitable for wedding
receptions and other social and
business functions; comfortable
lounge and magnificent dining-room.
The Hotel Metropole
"THE COUNTRYMAN'S
HOME IN SYDNEY"
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
potential of‘Western Germany
to take into account.
“In North America wool-
consumption is also capable of
considerable expansion. The
items on the credit side appear
to any reasonably optimistic
observer far to outweigh the
debits. The growers of Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and South
Africa are deservedly enjoying
the fruits of sound and far-
sighted planning, and we
should not forget that their
earnings of foreign exchange
contribute substantially to the
strength of the'*Commonwealth
at the same time as they nourish
their own national economies.”
Industrial Revolution
“Manchester Guardian,” attri-
buting much of Australia’s
“striking” post-war industrial
progress to “the immigration
which has added a ninth to the
population in nine years”:
“Many of these new workers
have been professional men of
London “Daily Minor ”
“ANY OF YOU REALLY SERIOUS ABOUT GIVING IT UP?”
high skill who could make
contributions on the drawing-
board, in scientific research,
and in technical supervision of
development works.
“This human invasion, the
firm desire of Australia to be
a strong and self-sufficient
nation, and the ability of men
like Mr. Bolte, Premier of Vic-
toria, and Mr. Playford,
Premier of South Australia, to
induce British and American
firms to invest in Australian
factories are producing an
industrial revolution of the first
importance.”
Bombs, Cleon
and Dirty
While there does seem to be
a small measure of comfort in
President Eisenhower’s promise
of a “clean” H-bomb—though,
as London “Daily Tele-
graph” notes, a man about to
be beheaded can’t draw much
consolation from being told
the axe is clean—there could
be, the same paper adds, some
unexpected complications.
“If almost all fissionable
uranium can be eliminated
from H-bombs, this will mean
that they can be exploded
without risk of deadly fall-out
poisoning the atmosphere. Not
only would this make properly
conducted thermonuclear
tests virtually harmless, but it
would also mean that in a
thermonuclear war H-bombs
could be used on definite tar-
gets without fall-out spreading
well beyond the intended area.
In other words, clean H-
bombs would be just like
T.N.T., only incomparably
more powerful.
“What are the likely strategic
and political implications of
this new development? First,
that war might once again be-
come a conceivable instrument
of policy. A war fought with
clean H-bombs would do a
vast amount of damage, but it
would not destroy the human
race, whereas the radiation
effects from a similar number
of dirty bombs very possibly
would.
“Clearly, therefore, if war
must come, it will be of ines-
timable advantage that it
should be fought with clean
bombs. But the whole of
Western policy today is based
on the deterrent value of the
dirty bomb. For this deterrent
purpose the dirty bomb would
seem far more effective than the
clean. It is precisely because
the dirty bomb is so uncon-
trollable —as likely to poison
the country that used it as the
country against whom it was
used —that no one today is
likely to risk thermonuclear
war. Is it not possible that the
clean bomb, by making war
less terrible, will make it more
likely?”
Menzies Tributes
Two samples of the Aus-
tralian P.M.’s rating in London
papers:
London “Sunday Times”;
“We in the Mother Country
can have no favorites, but it is
difficult to withstand the
massive frame and character of
Australia’s R. G. Menzies. By
nature the Australians are an
independent - minded people
who dislike regimentation and
do not worship idols, yet Mr.
Menzies has dominated the
political scene for years on
end.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide ” :
“The doyen of Commonwealth
statesmen, now that the decision
of the Canadian electorate has
removed —even if only for the
time being—the respected but
familiar presence of Mr. St.
Laurent, is without doubt Mr.
Menzies of Australia.
“ There are Scotsmen,’
murmurs the north-easterly
brother among Four Winds,
‘whose teeth grind when they
hear the way in which this
blood-brother chooses to pro-
nounce his surname’; but, that
little difference apart, what else
is there to be said about Mr.
Menzies which is not either
praise or thanks?
“While there are forces within
the Commonwealth, as well as
outside it, working incessantly
for its disintegration, Mr.
Menzies is a stout pillar of its
stability. He more than any
other man held Commonwealth
-and world—opinion steady
about the Suez crisis. There
were few who were involved in
that episode, at any level, who
do not remember with gratitude
the encouragement, the sense
of answering strength and
friendliness which he radiated.
“He is sane, shrewd and very
able. He is also extremely
forthright. The Socialist intel-
lectuals who have tried, over
recent years, to cash in on


JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental
Cream
eso"
m
k.
CLEANS
YOUR
BREATH
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
STOPS TOOTH DECAY BEST!
Scientific tests over a 2-year period show a startling reduction
in tooth decay for those who brushed their teeth with
Colgate’s right after eating! In fact X-rays showed no new
cavities whatever for almost 2 out of 3 people.
<***•
m
m
Keeps children's teeth healthy
Scientific tests showed that the Colgate waf
of brushing teeth right after eating stopped
decay for more people than ever before
reported in all dentifrice history. Your
teeth are whiter brighter and you
are assured of round-the-clock protectioa
against decay-causing enzymes.
Colgate Dental Cream Is Australia’s largest
America’s largest the world’s largest selling dental cream
Get the Family Economy Size and save up to 1/10.
LL.
Commonwealth matters, do
not love him ; they regard, him
as a reactionary and are more
than a little scared of him. But
among those who care for and
believe in the ideals for which
the Commonwealth really
stands, there is no more
welcome visitor to London; and
Britain —in bad times as in
good—has in him a staunch and
steadfast friend.”
Mr. and China
Commenting on the speech
in which U.S. Foreign
retary Dulles explained and
confirmed America’s continuing
refusal to trade with or recog-
nise Red China, Paris “Le
Monde” suggests that it “will
cause some surprise not only
because it is running counter
New York “Herald Tribune”
“COME ON IN, THE WATER’S ”
to a certain evolution of the
Chinese situation, but because,
deliberately, he seems to have
decided to stop this evolution.
“One can wonder what is the
worth of the policy advocated
by Mr. Dulles when it is con-
tested in theory and action by
London. Even if Mr. Dulles
is right, the policy he explained
is topped by circumstances and
an evolution is taking place
even though he is denying it.”
In further comment on the
same speech, Edinburgh
“Scotsman” described it as
“moderate in tone but feeble
in argument.
“Mr. Dulles insists on
standards of conduct for China
which he does not insist on
for other countries. China, he
says, does not conform to the
practices of civilised nations,
does not live up to interna-
tional obligations, has not been
peaceful in the past and gives
no evidence of being peaceful
in the future.
“Does Egypt conform to the
practices of civilised nations?
Does Russia? For that matter,
does King Saud?
“As for China’s international
obligations, nothing the United
Nations says has the slightest
legal binding force on non-
members. As for being peace-
ful, the U.S. intervention to
save Chiang and Formosa,
which all Chinese regard as
part of China, occurred before
China was implicated in the
Korean war.
“Periodically Mr. Dulles
demands that the Chinese
formally renounce the use of
force against Formosa. But
Chiang has never formally
renounced the use of force.
Many Americans are well
aware that their official posi-
tion bears little relation to
realities in the Far East.”
VariOUS Voices
Dr. F. G. Spear {deputy
director, Strangeways Research
Laboratory, Cambridge );
“Radiation is not to be feared,
But it must be respected I
underline the word respected,
Here, as elsewhere, the price of
freedom is eternal vigilance.”
R. Gresham Cooke {Con-
servative M.P.): “Let’s stop
knocking Britain. There are
enough foreigners, with their
dislike of the Union Jack,
doing that job for us without
our adding fuel to the fire. I
have just returned from
Western Germany, and while
they have made a stupendous
recovery effort it is worth
remembering that with the same
size population we have a
production that is 25 per cent,
larger than theirs. With the
second-highest standard of
living in the world, and with
our world leadership in the
industrial use of atomic energy,
we ought to be a proud and not
a snivelling people.”


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Sutscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY. >
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news -
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £B/18/6 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Section 92 Again
Section 92 of the Common-
wealth Constitution is in the
limelight again, the High Court
having held that it is not
necessary to register an inter-
state truck in any State —or so
it appears from newspaper
reports of Collier’s case.
But surely a State has the
right to say “You may use our
roads (or assets) as you vyish,
and whenever you wish, but
you have to pay for the use of
such roads (or assets)”? If
not, then it seems that anyone
travelling from Brisbane to
Sydney by rail can enter the
Sydney Express at the inter-
state station, South Brisbane,
without a ticket and say, “I am
going to Sydney. Try and
stop me! ” Would any attempt
to put him off the train be a
restriction of intercourse
between States?
The position seems to have
become farcical, and makes
one think that "Lord Wright, of
the English Law Lords, was
correct when he wrote some
time ago that he was now of
opinion that he and the other
learned Law Lords had been
entirely wrong in construing
Section 92 and in reading into
it things that were never
intended.
He stated that he was now
of opinion that the section
meant just what it said, and
nothing more or less, viz., that
trade and commerce and inter-
course between the States
should be free —that is, that
there should not be any
imposition of duties on goods
moving between the State or
any passports required by
travellers between the States.
The framers of the Constitu-
tion said that it was simple, and
to be understood by any
person. If Section 92 means
all that the courts have said it
means, then it is not simple,
and cannot be understood by
anybody. And the said framers
must have turned in their
graves many times since the
first court-case touching on the
“simple” section. Fell
Maken (N.S.W.).
Engineers and Engineering
“Old Opencut” (B. 26/6/’57)
is off the beam in his explana-
tion of “the unsatisfactory
position of technological train-
ing in Australia.”
The unsatisfactory part of
the training of engineers and
scientists is that we are not
training enough and, whether
we like to admit it or not, the
reason for that is simply that
we don’t pay them enough.
The U.S.A. is currently pro-
ducing twice as many, and the
U.S.S.R. three times as many
engineers in proportion to
population as we are in Aus-
tralia. And, from what one can
read, Russia does not in this
case achieve the desired results
by coercion, but by awarding
engineers a high standard of
living and prestige to go with
it.
Why don’t we pay our
engineers enough? First and
"We've got to go back , Harry—the Government has
got a High Court injunction against us under the
Transport Act.”
foremost, because the general
public doesn’t understand what
an engineer is. The title
“chartered engineer,” which
may be used only by corporate
members of the Institution of
Engineers, Australia (and other
professional engineering bodies
incorporated by Royal
Charter), is the only official
title for professionally qualified
engineers, who would do well
to make much more use of it.
nJ h copvrS
criminately applied to all sorts
, o i tr trih d in r icu,ar
intimately associated with
engines. There is, in fact, a
popular misconception that the
word “engineer” derives from
“engine.” The derivation is
the other way round,
“Engineer” comes from the
same root as “ingenious,” and
means, originally, an ingenious
person. The internal-combus-
tion engine which plays such
a prominent part in our civilisa-
tion is but one of a multitude
of practical applications of the
engineer’s ingenuity.
One difficulty in defining
engineering is that it covers
such a vast field. Two defini-
tions are worth quoting. One
says that “engineering is the
art of organising and directing
man, and of controlling the
forces and materials of Nature
for the benefit of mankind.”
The other American, of
course—is even more arresting,
if less, specific: “Engineering is
the art of doing well with one
dollar, what any fool can do
with two, after a fashion.”
In tackling “Old Opencut”
on a few of his specific allega-
tions, I am fortunate in having
at hand the results of a
national survey of the engineer-
ing profession conducted in
1955 by the Association of


You, too, can take
snaps anytime, anywhere!
* A
0
fW H
m
a
1
mm
\
rs
Flasholder
price £3/5/9
including fittings
mm
... enables you to get brilliant snaps of family life, parties, social occasions,
on dull days or at night, indoors or out! “Flash time” is anytime and
anywhere! The easy-to-use Kodak Flasholder may be used with most types
of cameras and. extends your snapshot hobby over the whole year and
right around the clock. It’s fun. Try it this week-end.
LOAD WITH KODAK ViRICHROMi PAN * FILM
* Pan means PANCHROMATIC . . . faster
and more sensitive to colour and tone values
in black and white pictures. New Verichrome
Pan is ...
YOUR FAVOURITE FILM
NOW BETTER THAN EVER!
*°<Uk
SS.
“s
Kodak DEALERS EVERYWHERE
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.. 379-381 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
Also at NEWCASTLE and KATOOMBA. Branches in all States
KP3
Professional Engineers, Aus-
tralia.
Professional engineers, on
graduation, received an average
annual salary of £lOOO. That
is little enough by some
standards, but on the whole
the profession is satisfied with
it, bearing in mind the limita-
tions of the new graduate.
But—and here's the rub—
the median salary for members
of the profession in Australia
was £1430 a year, received on
the average after about 10
years of professional practice.
Seventy-five per cent, of all
engineers received less than
£1736 a year. This is no doubt
partly due to the fact that they
are almost all employees—7B
per cent, of the total work for
Government and semi-govern-
ment bodies.
It is natural then that while
a lot (70 per cent, is the figure)
do own cars, as asserted by
“Old Opencut,” 75 per cent, of
these cars are worth less than
£750. Engineers on the whole
do not have paid help in the
house or garden ; their owner-
ship of major household
appliances is no higher than
that of the community
generally; the average of
engineers owning their own
home is but one-third of the
national average; their
expenditure on annual vacation
does not exceed £5O; and
expenditure on social activities,
such as clubs, is negligible.
Why do we stick to it? Well,
there's a heap of satisfaction
and sense of achievement in
the game, and, like Micawber,
we keep hoping that some day
people will realise what
engineers are, what they do,
and what the nation owes to
their efforts. We are confident
that, when these are properly
and generally realised, our
remuneration will at last
become commensurate with
our efforts, training and skill.
—Chartered Engineer (Q.).
N.T. Rice
Whatever the future of
Northern Territory rice-grow-
ing (“M.1.A.,” B. 19/6/’57),
someone seems to have confi-
dence in it. R.A.A.F. heavy
equipment has been used in its
land-preparation and Bren-
guns and gunners have been
made available to decimate the
wild geese. Even an inland
jaunt to the pastoral areas by
some of the V.I.P.s of the
syndicate was made in Com-
monwealth vehicles. There
have been some fairly
influential British and Aus-
tralian concerns operating in
the Territory in recent years,
but none of them seems to have
received anything like these
concessions.
Much as I would like to see
the rice-growing go ahead, I
share with a lot of other locals
the opinion that publicity, so
far, has been out of all propor-
tion to the production.
It will be waste of time
eradicating the wild geese
unless there is sound reason to
believe that the tamed one is
going to produce golden eggs,
and it would be a pity to shoot
out the buffalo herds if their
grazing range is only going to
run another white elephant.
The Territory has suffered
more than its share of the last-
named beasts during its
variegated history, and it can
hardly afford another one. —
Retired Bagman (N.T.).
E. T. Blacket
Harry placket (B. 22/5/’57)
will be pleased to know that he
erred when he stated that E. T.
Blacket’s design for the tower
and spire of St. Saviour’s
Cathedral, Goulburn, would be
departed from to give the great
architect’s “happiest work” a
modern streamlined version of
his proposed steeple.
Blacket’s original design will
be faithfully adhered and
only the methods of construc-
tion will be different. To do
the work today with hand-cut
and -fitted Bundanoon sand-
stone inside and out would cost
the best part of £lOO,OO0 —far
beyond the diocese’s resources.
A reinforced-concrete structure
faced with sandstone up to 6in.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
pspf
a
II
il
‘
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A "must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark—are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and "help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
thick can be built .for about
£30,000. Outwardly, at least,
the appearance will be as E. T,
Blacket conceived it —all that
really matters in this case.
About £20,000 is in hand
for the work and the money
is snowballing at the rate of
£BOO a year (compound), but
the job cannot begin, as an
influential section of the clergy
will not go into debt to build.
—S. H. Hume (N.S.W.).
Professional Tennis
I can’t see much point in all
the row about Lew Hoad
turning professional. In the
eyes of many people, he and
most other world-ranked tennis-
players have long been profes-
sional in the spirit if not the
letter of the term.
On his own admission, Hoad
had been receiving £l5OO a
year from a sporting firm. In
return he has devoted perhaps
three months of the year to
working for the firm.
For a decade or more,
Drqbny has toured the world
playing tennis, and apparently
lived well from the money he
has received to cover expenses.
Patty follows much the same
trail. The band of young Aus-
tralians who have been abroad
for the past year or more
following the tournament
circuit admit that success in
minor European tourneys
increases their bargaining
power for subsequent engage-
ments. The young Chilean lad
who defeated Ham Richardson
in the first round of this year’s
Wimbledon confessed, when
asked by reporters what Ins job
was, that he just played tennis.
Here in Australia, as else-
where, resentment against this
form of amateurism has
bubbled beneath the surface for
a long time.
In the not distant future a
significant event will occur in
the world of tennis, and that
subterranean cauldron will
erupt. Soviet Russia will
challenge for the Davis Cup.
Her representatives will acquit
themselves very well. Their
masters, who are keenly aware
of the propaganda value of
sport, will not allow them to
compete until assured that they
have better than a reasonable
chance of success. Then the
cry will go up from tennis
officialdom all over the Western
world .that the Soviet players
are State-nurtured and not true-
blue amateurs ; and their pro-
tests will evoke a healthy belly-
laugh from the man in the
Western street.
Before that farcical position
arises, let us do away with the
pretence that the Davis Cup is
contended for by unimpeach-
able lilywhites. Tennis would
be a lot healthier for open
tournaments, and a country
which won the Davis Cup in
open competition could derive
honest satisfaction from the
feat. The admixture of pros
and amateurs has not affected
the standing of golf or cricket.
It would seem that the main
opposition to open tourna-
ments is to preserve the social
significance of Wimbledon,
which ranks with Royal Ascot
and Henley in the sporting
world of the London social
season. The integrity of world
tennis ought to be more impor-
tant than maintaining the pre-
tence that Wimbledon is open
only to ladies and gentlemen.
—Bookie’s Dog (Vic.).
Westralian Iron Ore
At the beginning of June
Premier Hawke of W.A.
announced a deal by which that
State was to sell one-million
tons of iron ore to Japan and
use the expected £6-million
profit to expand the charcoal
iron and steel industry.
This project was started 10
years ago as a pilot-plant to
develop a process for smelting
the State’s iron ore. using
charcoal instead of coke, for
which the local coal has so far
been unsuitable. Some opposi-
tion was inevitable but the full-
scale controversy that developed
was surprising in view of W.A.’s
need for secondary industry.
First into the ring was
Opposition-leader D. Brand,
who opposed the scheme on
political grounds, claiming that
the money should be invested in
schools, water-supply, hospitals
and power instead of in another
Socialist enterprise.
Next to pull on the gloves was
president Cornish of the
Chamber of Manufactures,
who admitted that the scheme
had merits; but asked some
curly ones about its economics.
The chairman of the board of
management, N. Fernie, replied
with an article in the press
showing that production had
developed from 771 tons of
pig-iron in 1947 to 14,000 tons
estimated production in the
current year. He also claimed
a profit, which was belittled by
the vice-president of the
Chamber of Manufactures to
1 per cent, of the capital out-
lay.
The “West Australian,”
despite its anti-Socialist policy,
supported the Government,
while the Premier, despite the
Socialist plank in the Labor
platform, offered to “have
discussions with representatives
of [private] interests on the
basis of some private financial


participation with the Govern-
ment in the establishment of
the new industry.”
As if things weren’t mixed-
up enough, the smaller fry then
came in with a rush.
Collie and Bunbury assumed
that one of them would get the
industry, but Southern Cross
put in a claim to have the
furnaces established there on
the grounds that they had the
iron ore at Koolyanobbing,
only 40 miles away, and good
roads, a water-supply and elec-
tricity which could fill the needs
of the industry.
Manjimup, in the south-west,
then pointed out that it could
supply 1000 tons of waste
timber a day for the charcoal
needed in the blast-furnaces.
Then the Geraldton Council
wanted a slice of the pie. They
based their claims on a surface
lode of 3-million tons of very
high-grade ore at Tallering
Peak, within 100 miles of
Geraldton.
Cue Road Board, in the
Murchison, then suggested that
the Wilgimia iron-ore deposit
of 18-million tons of 63 per
cent, iron ore should be allowed
a proportion of the export.
If there had been anyone
living in the Dulyalbin Ranges
or at Mount Caudan they’d
have been in for their cut, too,
as would have been half-a-
dozen other places where iron
is known to be.
Meanwhile preparations are
going ahead at Koolyanobbing
to handle the big deal. And
they’ll need to be considerable.
At present two 20-ton trucks
cart about 600 tons a week to
rail at Southern Cross for trans-
port to Wundowie, where the
present furnaces are situated.
A new blast-furnace is expected
to be finished by Christmas.
This will want another 1200
tons a week. To supply a
million tons to Japan in two-
and-a-half years will calf for
a further 8000 tons —a total of
over 9000 tons a week 10
times as much as the present
maximum.
Premier Hawke has said
there will be no worry about
future supplies. Koolyanobbing
has been tested for only 17
miles of its length and geolo-
gists estimate that there are
37|-million tons of the stuff
readily available. There’s
enough ore in these remote
hills to last foreseeable require-
ments for 350 years.
In spite of competition from
other centres it seems certain
that Hawke has already decided
on the existing workings at
Koolyanobbing for supplies of
ore.
With recent developments in
the Lurgi process for coking
adapted to the needs of Collie
coal by W.A. technologists
I’m tipping that Collie will be
the logical place for the new
furnaces.
The irony of the whole set-
up is that licence to export
all this iron depends on the
approval of Prime Minister
Menzies. And there are still
walls and hoardings which
bear, in letters that are now
a little faded, the name “Pig-
iron Bob,” awarded to the
present P.M. when he tried to
introduce a similar deal
—admittedly in somewhat
different circumstances.
L. R. M. H. (W.A.).
Why Smoke?
When “Jackpot” commented
on smoking (B. 3/7/’57) the
latest British report had not
been published, and he was
possibly also unaware of the
most recent American findings.
Now that both are available,
no one can truthfully claim
inadequate evidence of the
association between cigarette-
smoking and lung-cancer,
heart - and blood - pressure
troubles, and possibly other ills
as well. The economic loss
caused by such sickness cannot
be disregarded, and neither
can the physical and mental
suffering of the afflicted and
their relatives.
The reference to aluminium
saucepans by “Jackpot” was an
unworthy red-herring, but I’m
all in favor of more research
into causes and prevention of
cancer. I’ve already suggested
that the tobacco companies
would be far better employed
putting their surplus funds into
such research than in distribut-
ing cash and bonus shares to
their shareholders.
I believe also that the
directors of the companies
should consider the unfortunate
results of the advertising
propaganda, which, as a recent
correspondent to a Sydney
newspaper has pointed out, is
designed to make young people
believe it is “smart” to smoke.
That writer favored counter-
propaganda by the Govern-
ment for the sake of our
children and future genera-
tions, and in this he should
have the support of most
smokers themselves. A few
lung-cancer sufferers might
describe what has happened to
them, so that others may be
warned.
The subject is touchy. Few
politicians will take sides, and
few newspapers will permit
unbiased discussion, possibly
because of the pressure of the
advertising interests —although
recently their columns have
necessarily had to give medical
findings in some detail. But the
time has arrived when Govern-
ments must act on an
unnecessary threat to the
public’s health—a threat which
is greater and more widespread
than polio or any epidemic
disease. Well - cured
(N.S.W.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 444
Across
I—Who approves of the dollar blame-shifter? (10)
s—South5 —South with offscourings. (4)
B—Totter8 —Totter to the more elevated. (8)
10—Sounds from the East century cultivators.. (6)
13 —Always Adamson’s mother managed a lion-tamer with
no change. (4, 3,4)
-15—Small bird. (3)
16 —A louse to be about a chemical. (5)
17—Shovel smashed dwelling places.
(6)
19 —Cast off the old skin morass. (6)
21—Bile’s secreted by this Moslem
Satan. (5)
24 —Suitable convulsions. (3)
26 — Katisha didn’t get to be the
Mikado’s coppers with anything
against old Ireland legislation.
(8-2-3)
27 — Floating menageries put on
weight in the U.S. highlands. (6)
29 — Ginger who is remote sign out-
side many a country holding’
where the fowls are laying. (4, 4)
30 — He helps the general idea to
undergo some transformation. (4)
31 — They are usually spat out, these
characteristics of the speech of
Sir Pelham Warner. (10)
Down
1 — A mallet used in battle. (6)
2 Chop shot into the slips when
made with 1-down? (6)
3 Skinny who advances to the
South. (7)
4 Fish-eggs. (3)
6 A wage-earner in the ballet
deserves her coin. (7)
7 Mum suddenly starts aside from
clubs. (7)
9 —Larking duet arrangement for
Mustapha Kemal, or his
successor. (7, 4)
11 — Like the New Hebrides century
on the keynote girl of Ginger
Meggs, with which I and you and
another 1000 are associated. (11)
12 — A Northern Territory six-footer.
(3)
14—Indispensable in any Yugoslav-
Italian association. (5)
18— Change-daily girl. (5)
19 — Revolution put ounces on a
philosopher. (7)
20 — This makes a veteran servant
always miss a juvenile card-game.
(3, 4)
22 — Meat on a limb where honey is
produced. (3-4)
23 Jump back in fright from a throw,
(3)
24 — Don’t ston slackening a drinking
vessel. (6)
25 — Oliver’s Jacobean furniture
features them. (6)
28 —This makes a namby-pamby step
up. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 443


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
WOOL TROUBLES IN W.A.
YTERE in Western Australia
the season just ended has
been full of interest, not to
say drama, for all connected
with the wool-trade. Now a
row between the brokers and
buyers has enlivened the slack
period, and, at time of writing,
seems likely to have far-reach-
ing consequences.
The Albany wool-sales are
the bone of contention: are
they to be held this coming
season or not?
The brokers say “Yes,” the
buyers say “No.” The growers,
who haven’t been consulted in
the matter, are so far silent,
but that’s not to be taken as
evidence of lack of interest.
It all started back in 1946,
when wool-sales were arranged
to take place at Albany, but
did not, because the wool-
buyers refused to attend them.
Since then, and especially in
the last few years, the demand
for Albany sales has been
growing.
The sheep-population of the
Albany hinterland has
When marking lambs
it is advisable to start
operations early in
the day to give the
lambs plenty of time
to “mother up” after
the treatment. The
use of Elastrator
Rubber Rings rather
than the knife is also
advisable.
increased rapidly: its potential
increase for the very near
future is very much greater.
The development of the War
Service Land Settlement areas
to the north-east of Albany,
and the Esperance Plains
country to the east, must mean
a great advance in wool-pro-
duction, without taking into
account the rapidly increasing
“ Don't come near me, you wicked old 'roo!”
acreage being laid down to
pasture by private landowners.
Everybody, including the
woolgrowers, the brokers, the
buyers, the W.A. Government,
which had spent a lot of money
in developing the port facilities,
and all sorts of local bodies,
agreed that wool-sales at
Albany must be held. The only
point at issue was —when?
The brokers made a move by
buying buildings for future use
as stores and land for exten-
sions : that was a wise pre-
cautionary move, but it didn’t
bring the sales any'nearer.
What brought woolgrowers,
woolbrokers and woolbuyers
up with a sudden jerk were the
raids made on the industry
during the last season by
private buyers.
When it was realised, too
late, that the activities of the
private buyers had taken some
£2 million out of the pockets of
the growers, had upset the
buyers’ arrangements, and had
emptied the brokers’ stores for
the greater part of the last half
of the season, it became
obvious that something had to
be done.
The only people in a position
to do anything practical about
it were the brokers, with, of
course, the co-operation of the
buyers.
A prompt and successful
move was the introduction of
fortnightly sales of crutchings:
wool for these sales was
accepted into store up to two
days before the sale, and pay-
ment was made to growers two
days afterwards.
This scheme worked
astonishingly well, so much so
that some of the firms which
dealt in this class of wool,
and had been buying direct
from the growers for years,
found their business dropping
by 50 per cent.
At the same time the brokers
decided that the time had
suddenly become ripe to start
the Albany wool-sales.
The Esperance developments
had a good deal to do with this,
but mainly it was a move, and a
good one, to combat the
activities of the private
operators in the districts where
they had bagged a good deal of
the business.
This writer understands that,
after the 1946 debacle, the
woolbrokers and the wool-
buyers made an agreement
whereby it became necessary
to give 12 months’ notice of any
plan to introduce new or
additional sales-centres.
The brokers had no time to
lose if the sales were to be
held in the coming season:
the buildings that they owned
were quite unsuitable without
extensive alterations, and
further building was needed
to provide for the handling of
even a reasonable proportion of
the wool which the district
might be expected to provide.
They therefore put their pro-
posal to the W.A. Woolbuyers’
Association, and asked for an
immediate decision. The wool-
buyers held a meeting, on
short notice, and unanimously
approved the move. The
brokers started work to the
value of some £150,000 at
once.
By the time that the work
was well under way, some of
the buyers who had not been
present at the meeting returned
to the State full of disapproval
of what had been done in their
absence.
Another meeting of the W.A.
Woolbuyers’ Association was
called, and by the narrowest of
margins, 53 votes to 52, it was
decided to rescind the approval
given to the holding of wool-
sales at Albany this coming
season.
The matter was submitted to
the Australian Council of
Woolbuyers, who ruled that the
motion carried at the second
meeting must stand, and
instructed W.A. members that
they were not to attend the
sales.
When this information was
passed on to the brokers, they
were understandably annoyed,
and stated firmly that they
intended to go on with their
preparations and that the sales
would take place. Up to time
of writing, they stand firm on
this decision. There, for the
moment, the matter rests. But
it won’t rest there for long.
The buyers’ argument—quite
apart from the legalistic one
that the brokers should have
given them 12 months’ notice —
is mainly as follows: Sales
will be too small to make
their attendance worth while;
they have been rostered for the
coming season, and their
arrangements would be upset
by any change of plan now ;
sufficient shipping is not
available to load at Albany,
and if they bought wool there
some of it might have to be
sent back to Fremantle, at
additional expense ; that, even
if some buyers attended, the
majority would not, and the
restricted competition would
mean lower prices for the
growers; and, in short, that
they are all in favor of sales
at Albany next year, when the
brokers should have space to
accommodate all the wool


STORM LANTERN
and get value for
money! Gives 12 hours
brilliant light on only
pints of kerosene. Abso-
lutely wind and weather-
proof. A Reflector is
available as an extra if
required.
And IQG% British Made too !
300 Candlepower
Model X 246
AJ
‘ssfthe <)i
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores throughout Australia.
In case of difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
which the district might be
expected to provide.
It seems certain that the
brokers will not be able to
hold sales of more than 10,000
bales at a time. They expect
to hold four sales, three before
and one after Christmas. This,
they admit, will not provide
for all the wool that could be
sent to Albany, which they
estimate at around 100,000
bales, but it is a start.
The brokers point out that
the buyers only have to attend
two sales in a month, one at
Perth and the other at
Adelaide, and they think the
buyers should be able to fit in
a few days for Albany ; they
say there is plenty of shipping-
space available ; that, as some
of the best wool in the State
is grown in the districts from
which the sales are likely to
be supplied, it is highly improb-
able that a majority of buyers
will allow a minority to get it
cheap ; and that if they give
way now, and agree to postpone
this year’s sales, similar objec-
tions might be raised next year.
The policy of the Australian
Council of Woolbuyers is
opposed to the establishment of
new selling-centres.
The brokers say that, once
the sales have started, they will
become permanent. And they
seem to be determined that they
will start this year.
The whole question is
interesting, because parallels
are bound to crop up (with, of
course, local differences) in
different parts of Australia with
the development of various
areas. One can appreciate the
practical difficulties of the
woolbuyers in this particular
case, even if one does not
entirely agree with all their
arguments. But there are other
considerations, apart from the
special, interests of the brokers
and woolgrowers in certain dis-
tricts. Anything which seems
likely to encourage decentral-
isation and a spread of popula-
tion and industry deserves to
be looked into very carefully
by the Government and people
of this State.
BOLIVAR.
Husband-Wife Team
“Anjip”: Most consistent
prizewinners in Commonwealth
export-lamb competitions of
recent years have been Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Hancock, of
Warracknabeal, in Victoria’s
wheatgrowing Wimmera. Last
year’s winner, Frank Hancock
collected the reserve-champion-
ship this year. He was beaten
by R. S. Wallace of Mt. Barker
(W.A.).
Mrs. Hancock, who competes
in her own right, won second
and third places in the State
championship, and, with her
husband and J. D. McQueen, of
Girgarre, formed the Victorian
team which went under to West
Australia in the mter-State
competition.
Husband and wife both use
Southdown rams on English
Leicester - Merino ewes.
Although the English Leicester-
Merino cross hasn’t shown out
in experiments, it has always
done well for the Hancocks.
Its low blocky body seems
ideal as a fat-lamb mother, but
experts say its lambs are slower
in maturing than those from
more popular combinations
such as the Border Leicester
or Dorset Horn half-breds.
At any rate, the English
Leicester half-bred has shown
that it can deliver the goods
in carcass-competitions. The
Hancocks also score well in the
Southdown show-ring against
Victoria’s best.
The Demaree System
“B-herd”: Sixty-odd years
ago, a bee-man in U.S.A.,
G. W. Demaree, manipulated
brood above and below an
excluder as a means of
swarm-control. Down through
the years his simple technique
was lost or discarded and the
name almost forgotten. Now
it bobs up again, this time as
a label for a hitherto unthought
of, yet highly efficient, system
for requeening'.
On June 22, at a Queensland
Beekeepers’ Association field-
day at Keith Mitchell s home-
apiary, Warwick (Q.) —Keith,
incidentally, has perhaps the
most impressive honey-extract-
ing plant in Australia the
technique was demonstrated to
about a hundred Queensland
and northern N.S.W. beemen
by Charlie Roff, the Queens-
land Department of Agriculture
bee-expert. Now and then Roff
called on a couple of old-
timers—Schnitzerling, and Jim
Fagg, both great old men of the
industry—to add a word from
their experience.
For speed and efficiency, the
entire yard should be requeened
in the one operation. The yard
may be of 60, 80, or 100 hives
—depending on the size of the
truck operated. This means
that an equivalent number of
“Demaree” boards must be
built and used in conjunction
with queen-excluders.
Briefly, the boards are made
to fit over a queen-excluder,
shutting-off the super from the
brood-chamber, but with half-
a-dozen lin.-holes gauzed over
on either side of the board to
allow colony-scent to be
maintained. Thus, though
separated as far as bee-passage
is concerned, and, in effect, two
colonies under the one lid, the
bees retain the one scent and
will reform without loss the
moment the Demaree board is
withdrawn.
The operator goes to his hive,
lifts super and excluder, takes
a couple of frames of sealed
and unsealed brood from
below, shakes all the bees from
them, replaces the spaces with
two good, empty combs, sets on
the excluder, places the two
brood-frames in the super, sets
on the lid, and repeats the
process on every hive in the
yard.
When this lengthy operation
is finished, he returns to the
first hive, lifts the super, and
slides-in the Demaree board.
A swivel-entrance block
is cut on the board.
Towards evening, on every hive,
this entrance is opened. The
entrance is best cut on the long
side, and towards the front of
the hive —not in the rear, as
has been the custom. Now,
as no travel is permitted
through the hive, the supered
bees must use this new entrance.
The field-bees drop from the
exit and return to the brood-
chamber by the normal
entrance, but, as time goes by,
the younger bees, leaving the
hive for their first flight,
orientate themselves to the
Demaree exit, thus forming the
second colony.
Third step is to place on the
brood, in the super, a ripe
queen-cell. It will be readily
accepted because most bees
in the super, cut off from the
brood below, are young bees.
Later, the virgin will emerge on
her mating-flight, after which
she will return to the entrance
from which she orientated her
first flight: i.e., the “Demaree ’
exit.
In a week or so, barring
accidents, in every hive in the
yard the operator has two


Russian Comfrey
For Farm, Garden or Small-holding
1. Has been authoritatively rated
with Italian ryegrass tor feed-
ing value.
2. Thrives in Australian sunny
conditions and yields up to one
ton a day from only 1£ acres
with good management.
3. Outyieids all other fodder crops
with 100 tons an acre, and has
exceeded all other crops in pro-
tein (33.68%).
4. Has very great drought resist-
ance, and persists for up to 40
years without deteriorating.
Does not seed, sucker or get
out of control.
6. Is valuable calf-rearing food,
and cows and calves love it!
6. Produces great quantities of
feed when pasture is scarce,
and causes heavy milk flow.
1. Does not scour or bloat, ban-
ishes intestinal and digestive
troubles. Has low fibre con-
tent for pigs and poultry.
8. Is palatable to sheep, goats
and horses also, and is mineral
rich owing to very deep root
system.
9. Has no insect pests, is not
touched by rabbits, and is very
hardy.
10. Is easier to establish, longer in
cut and higher in yield than
lucerne. Is tasty vegetable.
Send for introductory booklet giving
my farm experiments with this crop,
and book for Spring planting with
pioneer grower.
W. F. SAVAGE,
GREEN FARM, RED HIEE STH.,
VICTORIA.
DINGO
DESTRUCTION
No. 14 “ONEIDA”
JUMP TRAP
-7Jin.
Jaws
0 HUOjf
&
•»ir i
2Jlb
Outstanding efficiency as Dingo
catcher, well established in sheep
lands of Queensland for over forty
years.
Further particulars from
R. J. MURPHY
Box 555, G.P.0., Townsville, Q,
Sole agent for Australia.
queens, laying above and below
an excluder.
This procedure is a great
advantage over the method
still generally practised: to
search the hive, kill the old
queen, later introduce a cell,
and wait for anything up to a
fortnight for results. The
colony deteriorates during the
interval, and, if the virgin
doesn’t return to the hive, the
operator has a bad case of
queenlessness on his hands.
To return to the operator,
who now has his every hive
in his yard operating as
a two-queen unit. If the
main honey-flow is some
weeks away, everything is to be
gained by allowing this stage
to continue. When the first
operculums fall, a complete
yard of very powerful
colonies will be ready to
gather the harvest. But at
this stage the. “Demaree”
system must be developed
further, because conditions
would become chaotic in the
already supercharged colony if
the board were allowed to
restrict movement. The next
step is to remove the division.
If you want to operate a two-
queen hive for a longer period,
leave the excluder on the brood-
chamber, but if you mean to
carry out the original intention
of requeening, remove the
excluder, too.
Now the two queens operate
in the one colony until the
fateful moment when their
activities bring them to the
same point. The usual battle
takes place, and the old queen
is destroyed. This is the only
questionable point in the
excellent procedure, but experi-
enced men say that 98 to 100
per cent, of young queens take
over the colony.
The “Demaree” system is not
only for big men —it can be
followed with success by a two-
hive operator. When the
system is accepted generally,
one of the greatest bugbears of
the beeherding industry,
requeening, will cease to be the
major task it is right now, and
greater yields of honey must
follow as a consequence.
Plastic-sheeting
“Boobdarra”: Apart from
its usefulness in silos, plastic-
sheeting is proving valuable in
concrete work. As it is com-
pletely impervious to water, it
is often placed under the layer
of concrete in the bottom of
a small dam or pond. It is wise
to protect it from light and
also to cushion it on a layer of
sand to prevent stones punc-
turing it. Pieces of it can be
joined by a similar substance,
which is also cheap.
Thin plastic-sheeting, placed
on top of a newly-formed
surface of concrete for a fort-
night, prevents the mixture
drying-out too quickly.
Pigs
“Sundowner”: It’s useful to
have a breeding-plan whether
you run pigs as a sideline or
in a big way. If you keep pigs
only to drink your skim-milk
and you don’t want to use
much grain, plan breeding to
have enough pigs for the spring
flush of milk.
For a holding with 50 cows,
selling cream, rearing replace-
ment heifers, and selling
porkers and baconers, the
safest plan is to keep five sows
and a boar. Three sows should
be mated a second time in
June if conditions are good.
The other two should not be
re-mated, but, when their
litters are weaned, fed only
milk and pasture and then sold
as backfatters. Two of their
daughters can be used for the
next February matings.
Progeny of December mat-
ings can take the milk early in
the season. They will then be
helped by the progeny of
February matings in the spting
flush. Pigs from June matings
will take the milk at the end
of summer.
Whatever variation of this
idea is adopted, it will pay
dividends to have a plan. For
instance, if you want to sell
pigs the year round, you must
breed twice yearly and feed
more supplements. And if you
want to sell porkers, you must
keep more sows.
With planned breeding must
go planned feeding, particu-
larly of supplements. When
pigs have plenty of milk, and
pasture or hay, supplement
with straight grain or pollard.
If there is little or no milk
available, use a mixture of one
bag crushed-grain, 101 b. meat-
meal, 101 b. lucerne-meal, 31b.
ground-limestone, lib. salt.
After mating, sows will need
lib. of supplements per head
daily, as much milk as they can
drink, and pasture. Without
milk, increase the supplemen-
tary-ration to 61b. After
farrowing they will need 41b.
supplements (or 121 b. without
milk) and plenty of water. And
encourage the suckers to eat
when three weeks old.
From two months old, until
they are sold, each pig should
get lib. of supplements and
milk and pasture.
Mechanised Dairying
“Division”: The latest
report from the Commonwealth
Statistician illustrates the rapid
mechanisation of dairying.
There has been a 127.6 per cent,
increase in the cow-capacity of
milking-machines over the 13
years between 1943 and 1955.
Additions since 1955 are at an
even higher rate, according to
sketchy information still
coming in.
The capacity of installed
machines throughout Australia
rose from 89,796 cows in 1943
to 204,369 two years ago, with
the biggest proportional in-
creases in South Australia and
Tasmania, where numbers
were more than three times as
great as in 1943. The smallest
relative increase was in Queens-
land, where the numbers rose
by 75 per cent.
The Australian increase
during the year ended March,
1956, was 7492, or 3,8 per cent.,
the States showing the largest
proportional increase being
South Australia (8.5 per cent.)
and Tasmania (6.2 per cent.).
Of the total number of
milking-stands on rural hold-
ings in March last year, 38
per cent, were in Victoria, 24
per cent, in Queensland, and
20.7 per cent, in N.S.W.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(11/7/’57)
Apart from reasonably good rains in the central
highlands and parts of the Maranoa and Warrego, light to
moderate, patchy rains only are to be expected over most
of Queensland during August. General, reasonably good
rains are likely in September.
Light to moderate patchy rains are indicated over a
large part of N.S.W. during August, although reasonably
good rain is likely in the central and southern tablelands,
central west, south-west slopes and Riverina. Moderate to
good general rains in September.
Fairly heavy general rains should be received in most
of Victoria during August, and this should lead to flooding
in the northern half of the State. Similar conditions should
occur in September.
Reasonably good rains should occur in a large part of
South Australia during August, although the Murray Valley
may be confined to light to moderate rains, with light rain
or showers in the interior.
In Western Australia good rains likely in the De Grey,
Fortescue, Gascoyne and goldfields areas during August,
with general rains in the south-west agricultural areas.
LENNOX WALKER.


Best
Mineral
Supplement
V
for all stock foods, Tri-CaJ-Os contains over
65 % tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-C>9, you do not ppy
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
V
os
&M-
-boh*
i^‘-
W 7.
4
‘Dlix?a£(k
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Aty particulars florfly soppflaA -
Writ. to DAVIS GELATINE! G/O Em W
SYDNEY • GAO lot 4058. MELBOURNE • GAO.
la ||2F, ADELAIDE • GAO. So. 7SSK. BRISBANE
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
Dry Autumn Lambs
“Jackeroo”: With mating
for fat-lambs getting earlier
and earlier in the Mallee,
sheepowners have been appre-
hensive about the effects of a
dry autumn, such as the one
through which we have just
passed.
However, with this season’s
suckers bringing reasonable
prices in Melbourne before the
normal time, it seems that good
management can more than
offset a poor season.
As the limit of earliness is
the ability of ewes to breed at
certain periods of the year, it
now remains to be seen what
is the earliest time that lamb-
ing can take place successfully.
With such a high proportion
of Merino blood in many
Mallee ewe-flocks, this breed-
ing problem may not be so
serious as it would be if
British breeds predominated.
The important thing seems to
be to take advantage of the
period between the rush of
lambs from the irrigation-areas
and the well-supplied spring
markets.
Cockchafer Control
“Tahara”: Bare areas of
paddocks which have been
stirred-up by cockchafer-grubs
can be worked easily and sown
back to pasture in the spring.
Seeding before the weather
gets warmer could be a waste
of time.
Phalaris in the pasture not
only provides a good drought-
tolerant grass which also gives
some winter-growth, but also
makes the sward more resistant
to further attack by cock-
chafers. However, the grubs can
be controlled best by adding
2oz. per acre of lindane to the
super, and topdressing soon
after the first autumn rains.
The Coorong
“Big Billy”: Trace-elements
have made an astonishing
difference to the productivity
of S.A.’s Coorong.
Zinc, particularly, has given
outstanding results in trials
with sub.-clover. Where 71b.
of zinc was added to the super.,
the total yield over two seasons
rose from 17.4 cwt. to 43.7 cwt.
of dry-matter to the acre, an
increase of over 150 per cent.
Including copper with the
zinc increased the yields still
further, but without zinc the
copper had little effect.
Agricultural experts estimate
that this country, an area of
240 sq. miles adjacent to the
Prince’s Highway, will easily
carry two sheep to the acre.
One second-year pasture had
carried a beast to two acres, or
the equivalent of three to four
sheep to the acre, continuously
since last August.
For pasture-mixtures con-
taining phalaris or perennial
veldt-grass with Mt. Barker
and Bacchus Marsh sub.-clover
and lucerne, the sowing of 71b.
of zinc and 311 b. copper, and a
bag of super, to the acre is
recommended. If lucerne is
sown by itself, 71b. of copper
plus a bag of super, to the acre
is used.
Anti-frost
“Piangil”: Severe early
frosts in Victoria have already
warned of the consequences of
freezes later in the year, when
a big portion of an unprepared
grower’s work for the year can
be destroyed in a night. While
artificial aids such as wind-
machines, frost - pots and
smudge-fires can be valuable in
reducing frost-damage, less-
costly operations also play their
part.
These include ploughing-
under of green crops early, and
leaving the ground unculti-
vated until the frost-danger
period is over. Green crops
increase the danger of frost
because of their extra surface-
area, from which heat can be
radiated; by drying-out the
soil, they lower the ground’s
ability to store heat; and they
raise the surface-level by 2ft. or
3ft., and thus reduce the
difference in temperature
between the ground and the
vital parts of the vine.
Watering increases the
ground’s ability to store heat,
and flat uncultivated soil holds
heat better than worked land,
which, in addition to its larger
heat-radiating surface, is full of
air-bubbles which insulate the
surface-soil from the normal
ground-warmth.
Weeping Trees
“Billjim”: Weeping deciduous
trees —that is, species with
drooping branches such as the
willow, elm, flowering-cherry
and crab-apple—have much to
commend them for beautifica-
tion and shelter on the farm.
June and July are the best
months to plant, but they can
be planted later with a fair
prospect of success. After
planting, see that they are
securely staked until firmly
established.
For most of them, it’s a good
idea to put up a temporary
frame, with arms to train the
main branches horizontally,
and ensure that they are given
a wide span before allowing
them to weep. They will then
look better and make more
effective shelters.
Siting is important. When
fully grown the branches
should be clear of fences,
buildings, paths, other trees
and overhead wires. It must
be remembered that these trees
need plenty of space ; if this
is given them, they will be an
asset to any property.
Ewe Colostrum
“Tasman”: Recent New
Zealand experiments show that
colostrum should always be the
first diet of orphan lambs. It’s
logical, but not always prac-
ticable. An efficient substitute
is a beer-bottle full of warm
cow’s milk, a beaten egg, a
small teaspoon of codliver-oil,
and a dessertspoon of sugar.
Castor-oil can replace the cod-
liver oil. This mixture is fed
for the first 48 hours at the rate
of four feeds a day.
After that, the lamb can be
given a foster-mother in full
milk, or a mixture of four
parts of milk to one of lime-
water, plus a dessertspoon of
sugar to each pint. Four feeds
a day of this should be given
for the first fortnight; three
for the next two weeks ; and
two after that. The lamb
should get more per feed as
it grows, but it should never
be overfed.
Farm Hints
“W. Court”: If you want to
establish a new legume or grass
on your place (something of
proved value, of course, not a
potential pest), sow it on the
slopes first. The seed will drift
down to the flats, distributing
the introduction. Another good
place for new things is along
stock-routes or streams. Mov-
ing stock and running water
alike are great spreaders.
“Sundowner”: S.A. Depart-
ment of Agriculture has
developed a spray-mixture to
deal with boxthorn: it is 3 per
cent, low-volatility 2-4 d, mixed
with dieseline. It’s harmless to
stock, and is sprayed on the
lower 2ft. of the bushes. Late-
winter or spring is the best
time for using the spray.
“Detto”: Hens first off the
roost in the morning and last on
at night are the best layers.
Those that are first on and last
off will also put in some hours
of the day roosting. They are
the poor layers.
“Sandy”: Some roosters with
large combs sent to shows have
their chances spoiled by being
placed in coops that are too
small. Contact with the top
of the coop, plus the hot
atmosphere, cause combs to
droop, and the birds lose
points.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
Those who went to hear Sir Bernard
Heinze conduct “The Dream of Geron-
tius” at the Town Hall on Thursday night
thought the concert-committee had made
a special effort to decorate the vestibule,
for a lovely little rock-garden had been
made in the centre and all the alcoves
were full of flowers. The reason, how-
ever, was that in the afternoon a recep-
tion had been held by the Lord Mayor to
farewell the Governor, Sir John North-
cott, who will retire from office at the
end of the month. A presentation was
made to his Excellency of two portraits
of himself by Henry Hanke, and these
were hung in the reception-room of
Government House when the Governor
himself gave a late-afternoon party on
Friday. It is understood that Sheila
Collett, who was Lady Northcott’s
secretary for the past 11 years and before
that was for a time secretary to Lady
Wakehurst, will remain at Government
House as secretary to the wife of the
Governor-Elect, Mrs. E. W. Woodward.
« ry v-
Passed info the silence this week,
Bertha Lawson, widow of writer and poet
Henry Lawson. Born at Bairnsdale
(Vic.), she was a nurse by profession,
later became a teacher with her husband
in their school for Maoris in New
Zealand, and on her return to Australia
was well known in the art world as a
director of galleries. The mother of a
son, Jim, and a daughter, Bertha, she
had just passed her 81st birthday when
she died at her home at Northbridge on
Friday.
☆ ft ☆
A profusion of camellias decorated the
Royal Empire Society's rooms for the
reception last week to Mr. Terence
McDermott, Canada’s new High Com-
missioner. Mr. McDermott, a former
Rhodes Scholar, was interested to know
who was Australia's foremost novelist
(probably with an idea of gaining some
insight into the Australian character),
and really it was very hard to nominate
any particular author. He had been told
Henry Handel Richardson, but how many
would agree? Kylie Tennant? D’Arcy
Niland? Patrick White? Brian James?
Is there anyone who has caught the
spirit of Australian life and clapped it
into a book?
* * ☆
Noted that Mrs. Gordon Johnston and
Mrs. Jack Cassidy are to guide, control
and care for the Naughty ’Nineties com-
mittee while Mrs. W. J. Smith is abroad
with her husband. This committee, which
used to stage a fabulous fancy-dress ball
each year, then changed to a dinner-dance
in Race Week, will this year organise a
New Year’s Eve party at the A.C.I. Ball-
room for the first time. This was a very
bright idea, for lots of people have New
Year’s Eve free, though they want to go
to a party, while committees generally
assume that everyone is booked-up for
that date.
☆ ☆ ☆
Many people choose the name for their
babies from the “Births” column in the
“S. M. Herald,” but it is hoped that not
many will copy the name given to one
young man whose arrival was announced
last Saturday. He was simply called
“Spike.”
Bettina Welch is to play the leading
role opposite West End star Emrys Jones
in the new thriller “Double Image,” to
open at the Royal tonight ( Wednesday ).
Bettina, well known in Sydney’s world of
fashion and acting, is a New Zealander
by birth. She will be remembered for her
excellent rendering of the role of Elvira
in “Blithe Spirit” and with the Robert
Morley Company in “Edward My Son.”
In private life she is Mrs. Dermott
O’Brien and lives at Potts Point. Photo
by Hal Williamson.
Of country interest was the wedding of
Pamela Shaw, of Randwick, to Hugh
Treloar, of Roseville, at Our Lady of the
Sacred Heart Church, Randwick, on
Saturday, for the young couple will make
their home at Warren, where Hugh
manages The Brigalows. Best man at
the wedding was John Treloar, former
Olympic runner and brother of the
’groom.
# # #
Novelties in household-equipment noted
from American magazines include vertical
venetian-blinds that fold back like cur-
tains (easier to clean), refrigerators and
freezers at eye-level like a cupboard along
the wall, and a dish-washing machine that
can be wheeled to the table.
Artist Erik Langker made a number of
provocative remarks at the at-home held
at the Royal Empire Rooms on Wednes-
day, perhaps the most surprising being
that “Australians are probably the most
cultured people on earth today.” One
begins to think there is something in it
when, as he suggested, you divide our
achievements in the arts into the numbers
of our population. The percentage would
be rather high.
☆ ☆ ☆
Highland-flings and Irish dances will be
featured at the annual Highland Ball to
be lK,d at the Town Hall on August 2,
proceeds of which will go to the Far West
Children’s Health Scheme. Among the
debutantes to be presented to the Lord
Mayor (Aid. H. F. Jensen) and the Lady
Mayoress will be two girls who work at
the Drummond Far West Home at Manly
—Elaine Rook and Pam Hunter.
☆ ☆ ☆
It rather staggers the imagination to
consider a charitable organisation, that
has been in operation here since the year
Blaxland, Wentworth and Lawson crossed
the Blue Mountains (1813, in case you
have forgotten). But this is the record
of the Benevolent Society of N.S.W.,
which has had every Governor of the
State as patron since its foundation. The
society is now appealing for £lOO,OOO to
help with the work it does for mothers
and babies at the Royal Hospital for
Women, the Renwick Infants’ Hospital,
Scarba Home for Children and Rest-
awhile for mothers and babies. It par-
ticularly hopes that graziers, who have
benefited by the recent rains, will be fore-
most among those to make donations
(which are, of course, deductible from
taxation).
☆ ☆
On Friday last Miss Doris Fitton and
well-known radio and TV star Del Cart-
wright were guests-of-honor at the
Margaret Reid Orthopaedic Hospital at
St. Ives. Miss Fitton has been patron of
the Teamakers’ Club since its foundation
three years ago, and the occasion for the
visit was the presentation of a cheque for
£9OO to the Matron of the hospital to be
used for equipment urgently needed. Miss
Cartwright, president of the club, made
the presentation, which represents the
proceeds of only one year’s work by the
club.
V V V
Noted during the week that bottled
sea-water has been recommended as a
cure for everything, “from a hangover to
the gout.” But then, it is not very far
from a hangover to the gout, is it?
MELBOURNE
Overseas and inter-State visitors attend-
ing the 10th convention of the Law
Council of Australia were guests at a State
Government reception in the Royale
Ballroom. Host and hostess were the
Premier and Mrs. Bolte (she wearing a


sage-green wool frock with a soft gold-
felt cloche), who were assisted by Chief
Secretary Arthur Rylah and Mrs. Rylah
(her taupe wool frock worn with a small
beige feather-cap). In the official party
were the Lieut.-Governor, Sir Edmund
Herring, and Lady Herring, the latter
wearing a black barathea suit and an
orchid-pink curvette; the Lord of Appeal
in Ordinary (Lord Morton of Henryton)
and Lady Morton (her choice a deep-
purple French-crepe frock and a velvet
hat in green, black and purple tonings);
president of the Law Council of Aus-
tralia Mr. D. I. Menzies and Mrs.
Menzies (her peacock-blue wool ensemble
topped with a matching velvet cap).
Among the guests were Senator Neil
O'Sullivan and Mrs. O’Sullivan; the
Chief Justice of New Zealand, Sir Harold
Barrowclough, and Lady Barrowclough ;
Professor Willard H. Pedrick and Mrs.
Pedrick, of Chicago ; the Chief Justice
of Australia, Sir Owen Dixon, and Lady
Dixon ; Acting Attorney-General of
N.S.W. Mr. W. F. Sheahan, Q.C., and
Mrs. Sheahan ; and the Acting Chief
Justice of S.A., Sir Herbert Mayo,
accompanied by his daughter, Mrs. Ashley
Magarey.
Twenty-one-year-old Sylvia Bud gen
will play the role of Margot Frank,
sister to the heroine in the Pulitzer-prize
play “The Diary of Anne Frank,” which
starts at the Princess on July 31. Sylvia
is English, and already has had four years
of theatrical experience, ranging from
Shakspeare (at Stratford-on-Avon ) to
pantomime. Stage-managing in London
before switching to acting, she joined
the Little Theatre when she arrived in
Melbourne, and appeared in “The Grass
Harp." Leisure-time interests include
vintage-cars (part of her Shakspearian
tour was in a 1926 Rolls Royce), jazz and
Continental cooking.
Joan and Betty Rayner, the sisters who
direct the Australian Children’s Theatre,
have returned after a crowded six-month
tour of Europe and the U.S., bringing
with them some exciting folk-stories from
Italy, Holland and Denmark, which they
are now turning into plays for Australian
children to see during the next two years.
On their tour they had requests for
their shows from places as far apart as
Honolulu and Malta. In London they
put on successful shows for the Education
Department of the L.C.C. for that city’s
children, and the 8.8. C. gave .them an
appearance on television for a talk. In
the 8.8. C. studios they met Schiaparelli,
the famous designer, and Lord Beveridge,
whose talk followed theirs.
Joan and Betty saw a great deal of their
sister Molly and her husband John
Warwick, both of whom have notched
theatrical successes. After presenting
their new show in Melbourne about two
months hence the sisters will take it on
tour.
☆ ☆ 6
To celebrate their clubroom's redecora-
tion (which they did themselves) members
of the Young Contingent of the Victoria
League held a party. White woodwork
contrasts with walls of festival-pink,
cameo-brown, grey and pottery-blue ; the
ceiling also being in pottery-blue.
Pamela Middleton (chairman) assisted by
Bruce Beck received the guests, who in-
cluded Dr. Gytha Wade (a member of
the Brisbane Young Contingent, and now
at the Royal Women's Hospital), Marion
McPherson (wearing a Princess-line navy
coat which had matching velvet collar
and cuffs), Mr. and Mrs. lan Connell,
Mr. and Mrs. Guy Bakewell, Betty Leslie
(who, wearing a navy alpaca frock and
small pink cloche, handled the catering),
Barbara and Jennifer Hewitt, Joan
Duckett, Kay Hughes (an Italian beret of
pink sequins going with her pewter-grey
wool coat), Marie Mezger, Betty Shields,
Jocelyn O’Keefe, Charmian Watts and
Margaret Bell.
☆ ☆ ☆
The makers of Everglaze cotton report
that the latest addition to the range is a
jersey-knit which has been given a resis-
tance to sagging and “seating.” High-
fashion garments in knitted cotton or
mixtures of cotton and synthetics can
now be produced which will retain their
shape despite constant washing. This
jersey-knit cotton is suitable for all types
of garments, from the simple sheath-dress
to the formal-occasion frock. It is
also used for swimsuits.
☆ ☆ *
At the coming-of-age dinner-dance
given for Joan, daughter of Minister for
Education J. S. Bloomfield and Mrs.
Bloomfield, at their Malvern home, the
guest-of-honor wore a short frock of
palest-blue lace, the Empire-line of the
bodice defined with chiffon which fell
into two back-panels. The guests included
Davina Henderson, Sur Vercoe
(Adelaide), Jo Smeaton, Jean Macdonald,
Patricia Hayne, Mr. and Mrs. Bill Irvice,
Alan Cameron (Tasmania), Lieut.
Christopher Chamberlain (he is the
Governor’s A.D.C.), Tony Osborn, Dr,
John Harley and Peter Guthrie.
CANBERRA
Lady Slim left Canberra last Monday
on a 12-day visit to Papua and New
Guinea. She will spend four days in Port
Moresby ; Lae, Madang, and Rabaul are
among her other ports of call. Her
Excellency will meet officers of the Red
Cross, of which she is national president.
She will also visit pre-school centres, Girl
Guide clubs, and .welfare workers who
deal with the problems of New Guinea
native women.
Madame Chen Tai-Chu (wife of the
Chinese Minister), who feels like an Aus-
tralian after having lived in Canberra for
over five years, was president of a com-
mittee composed of members of the
diplomatic corps and Canberra ladies who
organised a gala international dinner-
dance at the Albert Hull to raise funds for
Australia’s handicapped children. The
£1500 raised will go to the Handicapped
Children’s Society, Canberra, and Inter
national House, Melbourne.
A pleasant afternoon of music was pro-
vided for members and guests at the
Victoria League’s musicale at Lawley
House. Lady Slim, national president,
was present,- accompanied by Miss
Montagu-Douglas-Scott. Lady Carring-
ton (she is patroness of the Canberra
branch) was of the official party, which
also included president Mrs. J. K.
Lawrence, past-president Mrs. M. R.
Jacobs, and vice-president Mrs. F. May.
The programme was arranged by Mrs.
Ellice Fisher, who also accompanied the
three singers: Myra Law, Tim Ellis and
Tom Hore. The final item of the after-
noon was a delightful duet by Myra Law
and Tom Hore: “Give me thy hand” from
Mozart’s “Don Giovanni.”


—but just lately he’s been
getting too much for my
mother. He’s a good boy,
really, but . . . you know. He
needs a man over him.”
She bit her lip and blinked
rapidly. Mr. Archer busied
himself lighting a cigarette.
Then: “Perhaps—have you
thought of a good boarding-
school? Not too expensive . . .
might be just the thing, eh?
Just the thing!”
Margaret said she had
thought about it, often. She’d
saved for it. But there didn’t
seem much hope of getting him
in anywhere suitable. Most of
them were booked-up for years
ahead—and, anyway, she only
had enough put by for a couple
of terms, fees, and . . .
Mr. Archer thought he might
be able to help, and jotted down
particulars on the back of an
envelope with a foreign stamp.
Margaret wasn’t too hopeful,
but she appreciated Mr.
Archer’s goodwill. She asked
if she could have the stamp ;
young Dick collected them.
“Certainly.” Mr. Archer
tore it off.
“Thank you, Mr. Archer.
What is it—French?”
“No. Swiss. Not a very
rare one, I’m afraid. How-
ever . .
TN the bathroom, standing
under the shower, Solly told
his colleagues how Mr. Archer
might fit into their plans.
Then they talked of many
things of common interest, of
many business enterprises.
Finally they dispersed first
Herb Trent; then Morry
Stanovich ; and then the others,
in a group.
Mr. Archer heard them
trampling past his door, heard
Rodney Asquith’s querulous
voice: “By the time Morry
Stanovich finishes touching
Herb Trent, and Herb Trent
finishes touching Morry Stano-
vich, what's left in it for Solly
and me?”
And Rudi Baumgarten’s
indignant neigh: “And by the
time you two have had your
fingers in it, what do we get,
eh?”
Mr. Archer, who was very
well-informed, guessed they
were discussing a current
charity.
Margaret bustled in, set half
the table, went out.
Mr. Archer, although he
couldn't see them, could hear
Margaret and Solly talking out-
side. Something about the
stairs.
“They’re dangerous, I tell
you. Any other hotel . . .”
Gold’s voice: “Not going to
spend money . . . Think I’m
made of money . . .”
Solly came in, switched-off
the light, walked to the win-
dow and pulled up the blind.
Mr. Archer looked down at
the mean houses, the rusted
roofs, the factory - smoke
polluting the warm blue sky ; a
different Sydney, different to
the quarter of the city where
he had his office, foreign to the
North Shore suburb where he
lived. Well, that was business
—took you into all sorts of
places, among all manner of
people.
Solly, his red, curly hair
damp from the shower, his
hazel-green eyes sparkling, sat
down in his dressing-gown. He
smiled, a wide, even-toothed
smile that brought an answer-
ing smile to Mr. Archer’s face,
against his inclination.
“Sorry to keep you waiting,
Mr. Archer,” Solly said affably.
“But you know how it is;
people coming to see me —all
the time.” He speared a cold
herring, guided it into his
steadily - smiling, full - lipped
mouth, without shifting his
gaze from Mr. Archer. “At
me all the time. In fact, I’m
worked to death,” he said,
chewing. “Sometimes wonder
if it’s worth while.”
“Sort of treadmill, eh?”
“That’s it,” said Solly. “The
game gets you by the throat.”
He looked like a young,
well - favored welterweight
boxer, fresh from a work-out,
in that rig, Mr. Archer thought.
He remembered that Solly Gold
was a patron of the sport, a
regular Monday-nighter in the
ringside-seats.
“You enjoy it, though. You
like money.” It was a state-
ment.
Solly’s forehead crinkled. “Is
that a crime? To hear some
people talk you’d think it was.
That’s unfair. I always try to
be fair. All I’ve ever tried to
do is get security for myself
and my family. I was brought
up around here.” He jerked
his thumb towards the window,
the slatternly houses and mean
streets. “Know what it is to
be poor —to be pushed
around.”
He captured another herring,
chewed meditatively. “I seem
to be doing a lot of talking
about myself. Something came
up this morning made me think
of it ail. If my family hadn’t
come here, before I was born,
maybe we’d have been pushed
around more. Maybe we’d be
dead. We’re Jews, you know.
Jews have had a hard time in
Europe. The old man tells
stories —make your hair curl.
Stinking ghettos in Eastern
Europe.”
“The war, too,” said Mr.
Archer sympathetically. “In
Germany, terrible for you
people.”
“Yair. The war.” Solly
didn’t seem very interested.
“All my family were here,
fortunately.”
“Looks bad now,” said Mr.
Archer, shaking his head.
“That fellow Nasser . . .”
But Gold, he could see,
wasn’t interested in the situa-
tion in the Middle East. It
occurred to Mr. Archer that'
for all the fuss about Gold’s
breakfast it was a remarkably
frugal one.
“Anyway,” Solly said expan-
sively, smiling broadly, “the
point is no one pushes me
around now. I do the pushing.
Right at the top.”
’V r ES, thought Mr. Archer,
A but is it wise to skite?
Power, influence, always most
effective when hidden. But to
deny himself boasting might
be too hard for young Gold,
take all the savor out of
achievement. He was young— l
thirty, was it, or twenty-nine?
Young, anyway, for the stony
peaks, the slippery climbs of
finance. Suddenly he was
aware of Gold’s large, greenish
eyes studying him, and became
slightly flustered. Perhaps he
was on the wrong track ; per-
haps Gold was hinting that he
wasn’t to be trifled with. A
warning?
Mr. Archer looked out the
window, fumbled with his
thoughts. “Trouble is, money,
large quantities of it, that is to
say, is something more than
supplying individual needs,
luxuries even. It’s well,
power and . .
“It is power,” said Solly,
quietly and sincerely.
But Mr. Archer kept plod-
ding on. The subject interested
him deeply.
“It becomes independent;
subject to its own laws. A
dynamic mass, grinding on.
Under certain conditions,
satanic, almost . . .”
“If you mean it’s hard to
keep track of, I agree with you.
It’s also remarkably hard to
get your hands on it, some-
times.” Solly held his slim
brown hand up and twisted it
thoughtfully. The dusty light
from the window made the
heavy gold ring wink. “That’s
my trouble.”
There was a pause that
shaded into embarrassment.
Solly broke it. “I’ve been
wondering why you came to
me direct instead of acting
through a hotel-broker. That’s
the usual thing, isn’t it?”
“Is it?” Mr. Archer stopped
rocking his chair. “This
seemed the simple thing to do.
Come and see you. Know
where I am then.”
“What is your business?”
“You’ll find it in the phone-
book: Archer, Harold. Manu-
facturers’ agent.”
“You haven’t been in the
hotel-business before?”
Mr. Archer smiled. “Let’s
call it a little flutter.”
Solly frowned. “What I can’t
understand is why you picked
on this particular hotel.”
“Call it a long-range invest-
ment. Besides, it’s not a large
hotel, not in good condition.
The price shouldn’t be too
high.”
“Depends what you call high.
The bar-trade is good. The
licensing-fee would surprise
you.”
“No.” Mr. Archer smiled
agreeably. “My solicitors
looked into all that, of course.
Usual brewery-contract, isn’t
HEAT LIGHTNING
Watching Nature's private concern to illuminate ,
As though speaking, the clouds billowed up level
With our hill and a mile away, making a spate
Of light to burst in sheet or fissure showing the corbel
Of grey colonnades or curls of tempestuous
Locks on large heads, we note our tacit exclusion
From this region of the skies and feel that timorous
Putting of the question will elicit no solution
Or acquaintance ; having no force in the matter
We will be ignored. This quiet bombardment ,
Sudden puff and froth of light, erratic clatter
Of sight at eleven-o’clock is argument
Without secretary, unless the latter day
Crones and lenses be taken to construe
A species of minute. Stand till it mutters away:
You could have stayed in bed. It did not call you.
VICTORIA.
NOEL MACAINSH.


it? Two years to run. And a
bill of sale over the furniture.”
“So you can see . . .”
“No. Because that’s not
bona-fide bar-trade. You have
the quota, but the bar-trade
would have to be built up. I’ve
got a young fellow might be
able to do that, he and his wife.
He’ll take-over the licence. But
that doesn’t make the price any
higher, Mr. Gold, because the
surplus beer you can get rid of,
we can’t. Wouldn’t take the
risk, an/yway.”
“It’s no trouble getting rid
of beer legitimately ...”
“It will be. This is a long-
range investment. The gilt’s
going off the hotel-business, Mr.
Gold. The big prices and
quick profits. The price has to
be reasonable, otherwise I’d
never get my money back.
These latest import-restrictions,
too —they’ll hit some industries
hard. You’ll feel it, around
here, in a few months’ time.
Matter of fact, I had a car
ordered. Need a big car ; I go
into the country a lot. Got a
little property in the Riverina ;
my boy manages it. However.
Looks as if I’ll have to wait a
long time for the car I want.
Fellow 1 know, play bowls with
him, high up in the department.
He says I’ve got Buckley’s
chance. However, before you
name a price, Mr. Gold, make
up your mind I’m not going to
pay a fortune. On the other
hand, I can pay what I think is
a fair price, cash down, when-
ever you like.”
“What would you consider
a fair price?”
Mr. Archer told him. Solly
was incredulous, horrified,
indignant, amused.
Mr. Archer sat out the per-
formance stolidly.
“This hotel is in a very good
position,” Solly added, by way
of an afterthought.
“Too many pubs around
here. Better pubs. Better
facilities. Better reputations.”
OOLLY rallied. “Anyway,
that’s not the point. The
point is that it’s a good proposi-
tion now, from my point of
view. And I’m not anxious to
sell. In fact, before you spoke
to me this morning I hadn’t
even considered it seriously.
It’s just that it fitted in with
something else I had in mind.
But now I don’t know that I
want to sell —haven’t made up
my mind, even if the price was
right, which it isn’t. But per-
haps you were joking? No?
In fact, if I hadn’t liked the
look of you I wouldn’t even be
discussing it with you.”
“Taking over another hotel?”
Mr. Archer asked casually.
Solly looked at him steadily.
“Something like that. You
seem to be very well informed,
Mr. Archer.”
“It’s my business to be,” said
Mr. Archer. “Well, what about
it? What’s your price?” He
lit a cigarette and offered the
packet to Solly. “Smoke?”
“I don’t smoke. Well, Mr.
Archer, I’ll think it over and
let you know.”
Hq rose. The interview was
over.
Mr. Archer stood up, a little
taken aback. “When?”
Solly smothered a yawn.
“Oh, by tonight, I daresay. Let
me see. I’ve got to go to a
charity-meeting tonight, at
Lady Fielding’s—you know
Alice? Great scout. Better
make it after eleven —at the
.Game. You know where to
go?”
Mr. Archer nodded. He had
been to the baccarat-game
once, with a friend. A difficulty
occurred to him. “About get-
ting in . . .’”
“I’ll fix that,” Solly promised.
“Just give your name at the
door. Well, till tonight, then,
Mr. Archer.”
He moved to the door, bare,
led-haired, well-muscled brown
legs stretching in strides a shade
too long, slippers flip-flop ; a
stride, almost ridiculous ; not
quite. Half-turned, indicating
his dressing-gown in smiling
apology. Charming smile.
“You’ll excuse this get-up,
won’t you? It’s the abnormal
life I lead . . .”
Margaret, hurrying past,
caught the words, the actor’s
warmth in his voice. There
he goes ... He could carry on
from there without thinking:
the troubles of the rich, the
happiness of the poor. The
joys of life on the basic wage.
Early to bed and early to rise
and no bad dreams about the
Taxation Department.
He often made such poetry,
and some of the poor fools
downstairs swallowed it.
Moira, for instance, on the till.
Tell Moira she was indispens-
able often enough and she
would work her inside out,
never bothering about over-
time. And on the other hand,
no one could use ruthless prose
so effectively as Solly, when it
suited him, stripping a thing to
its meanest value . . .
Furious, she began
disembowelling the old
mattresses that she had asked
Solly for permission to throw
out; he had said sell them;
sell them! You’d have to have
them taken away. Scattering
kapok around the room, sorting
it for remaking, out of breath.
Wait a minute. Why am I
doing this? Who am I to talk
about Moira?
“I’m just a plain bloody
fool,” she said aloud.
Then she began cutting the
material.
down the stairs, Mr.
Archer met Murdoch,
M.L.A., coming up. The
politician looked pale, and kept
his eyes straight ahead. Mr.
Archer was surprised.
Mr. Archer went into the
saloon-bar and ordered a
middy. He drank it slowly,
looking around. Not bad.
Clean, bright, plenty of mirrors,
fluorescent-lighting, TV-screen.
A great contrast, anyway, to
upstairs. Only two or three in
the saloon-bar, but he could see
through into the public-bar,
and there seemed to be a fair
sprinkling of customers for that
hour. The barmaids were
quick, cheerful, rather dowdy
—he had half-expected some-
thing different. But Solly, after
all, was a businessman. The
beer was good, too —clean
pipes.
Presently he asked the bar-
maid if there was a public-
phone. She said yes, in the
public-bar. So he changed a
threepenny-piece and went in
to see about Margaret’s boy.
The headmaster agreed that
it was someone’s Christian duty
to do something, but he
couldn’t see that it was his,
specially. And he had a list as
long as your arm . . . Mr.
Archer was insistent. Well, he
couldn’t say definitely at this
stage, but there was a possi-
bility of a vacancy next term.
Although, actually, he had had
someone else in mind . . .
“Look here,” Mr. Archer
shouted — despite years of
familiarity with the instru-
ments, he still shouted at
phones—“these people, who-
ever they are, that you’re put-
ting off, they can probably
afford to go somewhere else,
got plenty of pull and all that.
Am I right?”
“Ye-es. The only
difficulty . . .”
“You’ll be giving the boy a
real start in life,” shouted Mr.
Archer. “Moulding a young
life.”
“As I said, we have a wait-
ing-list. Quite a few people
want us to mould their off-
spring’s lives.”
“Or get rid of ’em, eh? Lot
of selfish socialites trying to get
their kids off their hands . . .”
“Oh, cut it out, Harold.”
“Bright boy, too. Should do
well in the classics.”
“The classics? But you
said . . .”
“Private tuition. Remarkable
aptitude, his tutor tells me.
Very rare these days. Should
be encouraged.”
“Indeed? Well that’s a bit
of a change, I must say. Do
you know, half the youngsters
now want to be physicists
and ...”
“How’s the building-fund
going, George?” •
“Not the best, I’m afraid.
That last ...”
“Good. I’ll send you a
cheque in the morning. Send
you the first term’s fees, too.”
“But . . .”
“Good. That ? s settled, then.”
Mr. Archer hung up.
When he went to his office
Mr. Archer sent his secretary
out to buy an elementary Latin
grammar. He wrote an
explanatory note and told Miss
Gerard to post it, and the
parcel, to Mrs. Rogers, The
True Briton Hotel . . .
Miss Gerard was intrigued.
{To be concluded next week)
THE MAN OF OAK VISITS THE GUMS
The trees leant over with hands on their knees,
Inclined their ears for the catch of his voice
And further behind dense crowds of them gaped ;
It is strange now how the prospect seemed worse.
But that day it was the first time of course,
And the trees were curious, though not for speech ,*
They took it he way sullen —so darkly stood—
But, as proved, were tolerant of approach;
And, noting how he smacked of elders and oaks,
On every bluff and slope just stood aloof
And took impassive his blows of possession,
Laying subtle a siege of which time is proof.
As the trees fell they deflected his life
And sent rangy and dry his way and talk;
As the century turned they smiled at the change,
Knew they would supplant who smacked of the oak.
VICTORIA.
NOEL MACAINSH.


rich is a woman’s interest in the rich-
ness, not the wells: young men carrying
gold-bricks on their shoulders in the
street; waiting for other dinner-guests
before a dinner given by one of the
first ladies in the land, “an occasional
sharp report as one or other of the
ladies popped her gum”; “meeting in
the harem, in smart tailored suits with
modern costume-jewellery and their
hair done in the latest Western style,”
women who “pass along the streets
completely enveloped in black, even
their faces hidden beneath black
cloth”; and at dinner, where all the
rest were men, being given the prize
delicacy, a sheep’s eye, and making
herself swallow it.
Then she is off with Khalid Rassaq
and his falconer on the old Arabian
sport of hawking, following the hawks,
one called Reshwen, the other Petrol,
in a jeep over the desert; hawks trained
to catch birds, gazelle, geese and hare ;
sleeping at night in a bell-shaped fish-
ing-tent ; passing an occasional black-
tented camp of Bedouins:—
“We must cut due west,” said
Khalid, “and try to get away from
the Bedouin. The desert,” he added
disparagingly, “is becoming full of
people.”
Khalid Rassaq was of an old family
of pearl-merchants, and under the new
dispensation Director of Posts and
Telegraph. He advised Miss Toy that
if she wanted to cross the Arabian
desert to Jedda on the Red Sea, her
best plan was to telegraph the King of
Saudi Arabia and ask to be invited to
see him. The telegram was sent and,
much to her surprise, the invitation was
extended; and so after a farewell
dinner in which the main dish was a
pink blancmange with “Good Luck,
Safe Journey” written across it, she
drove her Land - rover into Saudi
Arabia.
At every stopping-place on the way
to the King’s palace at Riyadh, Miss
Toy stayed with the King’s representa-
tive, the Emir. At Jariya there is
another of her beautifully - drawn
pictures of Arabian women: the Emir’s
two young wives:—
The first was very lovely. She was
tiny, and had a heart-shaped face
with black almond eyes and perfect
eyebrows which ran off at the same
angle. The second was not nearly
as attractive, and looked a little
older. They were both pregnant.
Their faces were heavily made up
with ochre and the eyes outlined with
kohl, giving them a mysterious look.
On their chins were black markings,
and each wore a long black dress
with a design of tiny red roses.
Below the skirts peeped long pink-
and-white striped pants which were
held at the ankles and edged with
white lace. Black scarves covered
their heads and all their hair. They
both had enchanting and very
feminine gestures... .The first wife
took the initiative in everything,
ordering both her own and the other’s
children around although they
were obviously very good friends
and enjoyed each other’s company.
When finally she gets to the palace
at Riyadh, there is the same satisfy-
ingly-exact observation of the apart-
ments prepared for her and again of
the regal harem, to which she was
introduced by the busiest woman
there, the midwife. King Saud inter-
rupted her visit to the harem to present
her with a man’s gold watch (because
the smaller, women’s-size watch would
not have been considered “important
enough”), and a magnificent red, gold-
embroidered ceremonial robe. Here is
the last view of the gorgeously-attired
favorite, Umm Khalid: —
When I rose to leave Umm
Khalid accompanied me along the
passageways. She came as far as a
woman could go, then waited, in the
blazing light, as the midwife led me
back towards the King’s gardens.
She stood there, watching us, her
colorful clothes glistening in the
bright light. There was . a slight
passing look of regret on her
pleasant open face, and then, with a
kick of her long train, which sent it
scuttling to attention and in line,
she turned and sailed off back to the
other women.
Miss Toy had driven up to the palace
with loud reports, having lost her
silencer on the way ; and, having had
her six-year-old Land-Rover repaired
(in this rich country where she saw
“beautiful American automobiles dis-
carded and abandoned by the roadside
just because a wheel was broken or a
bonnet crashed in!”) by an English
engineer named Puddiefoot, she was
told that she could not move on to
Jedda without a guide, women not
usually being allowed to drive in Saudi
Arabia. So she was given Sa’id, night-
watchman of Mr. Anderson, an archi-
tect sent out to arbitrate a squabble
over whether a Prince’s £400,000
palace, half-finished, should be com-
pleted for another £400,000, and which
side would pay.
The rest of the journey, more than
halfway across the Arabian desert,
although it is finely detailed, is mainly
interesting for Sa’id. His socks, it seems,
were very much on the nose, but Miss
Toy was too polite to mention it until
an officer at a stop on the way made
him throw them away; and again, he
had picked-up English from an
American oilfields mechanic, and thus
learned to give every noun an adjective
as a matter of course: —
“We take this b road, right
through the wadi.”
He thought, Miss Toy says, that the
adjectives were parts of the word; and
she fought in vain to correct him;
indeed, when, after circumnavigating
Mecca, they were driving in to Jedda:
“Not b right you drive in
Jedda,” said Sa’id.
“Oh, b that,” I said; and
then thought, with a start, that it
was perhaps time we parted)
company.
And, indeed, it was a long way for
an Australian girl to go to learn to
talk like that.
The Magazines
“Southerly” (No. 1, 1957) is chiefly
interesting for a well-balanced sum-
ming-up of Kylie Tennant as a novelist
by T. Inglis Moore, and an account by
Clive Hamer of “A Novel That Aus-
tralia Forgot.”
This is Fifty Years Ago by Charles
De Boos, a story of a murder by the
aborigines and the long-drawn revenge
subsequently taken on them by surviv-
ing members of the white family. It is
set around the Hunter River district of
N. S. Wales. The author was a journal-
ist and goldfields-warden. Hamer says
that De Boos was before Joseph Furphy
in writing a novel “truly Australian in
spirit” as distinct from novels written
for an English audience. -
His description of the style as
“unadorned and plebeian” contrasts a
little oddly with the melodramatic
dialogue of his quotation from it:—
“Oh, boy! boy! [he cries] would
I had died that night when I sat
maddened and stupefied by that
yawning grave that held my wife and
little ones! Had I perished then as
I thought I should, for oh! I
thought I could not live out the
night, I might have joined them in '
happiness above. Now I have lived
and revelled in carnage, a sea of
blood divides us and never, never
again shall I meet them.”
But still, if it really will stand up
to “a new, unabridged edition to bring
it before Australians who are unaware
of what exists in their own literature,”
it would be interesting to see it.
“Quadrant” (Winter, 1957) has a
short-story by E. O. Schlunke; a lively
article on the press-gallery at Canberra
by George Baker; Professor E. W.
Titterton on “Education for an Atomic
Age”; Bernard Hesling amusing on
“Youse and Non-Youse”; and Pro-
fessor A. R. Chisholm very pleasant
and illuminating on “The Brennan I
Remember.”
“The Bulletin” has also been asked
to take note of “Compass,” a magazine
published by the Melbourne Univer-
sity Literature Club, consisting mostly
of poetry, with Chris. Wallace-Crabbe
and Evan Jones among the contri-
butors; and “Australian Wines and
Food,” a quarterly edited by Donald


JUST PUBLISHED!
THE MAN FROM OODNADATTA
By R. B. Plowman a new edition of this vivid record of the people and places
of Central Australia, as seen through the eyes of a young padre.
20/- (post 7d.)
THE SELECTED POEMS OF HENRY KENDALL
Selected and introduced by T. Inglis Moore. Among the 80 poems in this
collection are many not previously published in book form. 17/6 (post 7d.)
AVAILABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS and
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Top books for bottom budgets!
COLLINS FONTANA BOOKS
The series that brings the best in literature within the reach of everybody.
Whether your interest lies in Art, Adventure, Crime Detection, Religion,
General Fiction or Biography, there is a FONTANA BOOK to suit your taste.
Ask to see them at your bookseller or write for complete list to :
WILLIAM COLLINS OVERSEAS LIMITED
246 Kent Street, Sydney
Wallace and published from P.O. Box
19, Balwyn, Victoria. And truly, if
everybody took to poetry and wine, of
the quality indicated in these pious
Victorian publications, the world would
be a better place.
The Leader of Ghana
A somewhat garish volume from
Thomas Nelson, bound in the red,
green and yellow of the new
Dominion, is called Ghana on the
dustjacket, but the sub-title, the
Autobiography of Kwame Nkrumah,
takes complete control in the text.
It has Kwame Nkrumah’s photo-
graph on the dustjacket. The frontis-
piece is a full-size picture of him. On
p. 2 he is shown “standing outside my
birthplace.” He is shown beside pools,
in literature-societies, with his mother,
reading his letter of resignation from
the U.G.C.C., addressing the Ghana
Representative Assembly, leading
Government business, being received
by President Tubman of Liberia,
“working in my study,” having a
degree conferred by somebody at an
American Negro University, as a
“prison graduate,” giving the freedom-
salute, being carried shoulder-high,
arriving at Christianborg Castle, being
asked by the Governor to form a new
Government, “examining a cocoa-bean
for marks of disease,” opening a new
telephone-exchange, aboard a Dutch
ship, at its helm, driving a railway-
engine, with Adlai Stevenson, with
friends in Togoland, visiting a child
patient, with chiefs, with his office
telephone-system, taking-off in a Can-
berra jet, having his first experience
with a television-camera, and with his
Cabinet.
Rich passages in the text similarly
highlight Nkrumah’s kind heart and
dominating personality which even-
tually forced the “brutal imperialists”
out of the land of Ghana;—
“Now on Sunday, the First of
July,” I announced to my party
executive, “we will hold a monster
rally in Kumasi.”
My words were drowned in cries
of jubilation. “At last,” they cried,
“at last we can show them!”
The enthusiasm with which my
announcement was greeted through-
out the rest of the country was
unbounded..... .1 knew well enough
the reception I would receive.
The author is not a figure to regard
with equanimity. Behind his external
self, the architect of Ghana’s
independence, lies a secondary
Nkrumah who hates the white with a
deep hate, who regards himself as the
leader of “Pan-African nationalism
and African emancipation” which
“must spread throughout the whole
continent into every nook and comer
of it.” He does not look on the struggle
for the independence of the Gold Coast
“as an isolated objective but as part of
a world-pattern.” He considers himself
“the vanguard-force to offer assistance
to others,” and opines that his “task is
not done and our own safety is not
assured until the last vestiges of
colonialism have been swept from
Africa.”
Reviewed Briefly
The Lady and the Unicom: Rumer
Godden (Peter Davies). There is
romantic charm in this story of a
Eurasian family living in a Calcutta
house of haunted, ramshackle beauty.
The color of the Indian scene, the
pathos and humor of the characters,
the sadness of the tale are handled with
Miss Godden’s individual and delicate
skill.
* * * *
The Verge of Glory: Frederick
Wight (W. H. Allen). Modigliani is
the central figure of this latest novel
based on Bohemian life in Paris. The
period is the First World War, and
the story is told in a series of dramatic
episodes which bring to life the strange
coterie which circled round this even
stranger artist. Sketchy but vivid.
* * * *
Madame Solario: Set in a fashion-
able Italian resort just before the First
World War, this story by an anonymous
author (published by Heinemann)
recaptures the formal atmosphere of
the time and place, but the world has
changed so much since then that it is
hard to believe in these hourglass
ladies and elegant men with their
guarded hints of immorality and
strange association. The interplay of
personality and intrigue is seen as
through a clouded glass, and their
problems appear as the problems of
puppets.
* * * *
The Square Sun: Stefan Knapp
(Museum). Mr. Knapp is a Pole who
was forced to labor in Russia after
the partition of Poland in 1939; he
was deported in 1942 through the
Caspian Sea; joined the R.A.F. in
England and flew considerably in
Italy. Now he is making his name as
an artist in England—his story of his
experiences with Russian labor-
battalions maybe explains the extra-
ordinary paintings, art-groupings of
roots and other natural objects, and
murals with which the book is
illustrated.
* a * *
The Spiked Heel: Richard Marsten
(Constable). Novel about the manu-
facture and marketing of high-fashion
shoes in an American factory, with a
competent tale of the drama that arises
when a dynamic despot takes over the
control of a formerly smooth-running
business.


vr
m
m
M
m
'4
" r ~'
■rrr^fS^T:
"nr-r^
«A-twV',
>v tj? r ?v*
He will be
carrying: on . . .
The emphasis these days for the man on the
land is CONSERVATION of soil, fodder
and stock. Scientific study of agricultural
problems has revealed ways of improving the
quality and quantity of output and of CON-
SERVING THE FERTILITY OF THE
LAND. More and more research is being
undertaken to help the man on the land conserve
and consolidate. There is, however, a more
pressing problem—-THAT OF CONSERV-
ING HIS ESTATE; making sure that upon
his death his property may pass on to his
Beneficiaries unencumbered by death duties.
Land values today are higher than they have
ever been, yet paradoxically the growth in value
has increased the liability, for there is one debt
that cannot be escaped—DEATH DUTIES.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited, “The M.L.C.,’’ has for
many years specialised in the field of ESTATE
CONSERVATION, and has developed an
attractive range of policies especially suitable
for the purpose/ In some cases the amount
required to pay Death Duties is considerable,
and the M.L.C. offers a specially reduced
premium rate for higher-than-average require-
ments —this premium rate is one of the lowest
available in Australia today.
Particulars will be readily supplied without obligation upon request. Learn more about THE
M.L.C. ESTATE CONSERVATION PLAN as it concerns you personally. Contact your
nearest M.L.C. man for further details or drop a note to the M.L.C. at Sydney (G.P.O. Box
1598) or the nearest M.L.C. District Office.
Be Well Advised by the M.L.C. Man
ML7SA/FP
The
(imrpmM in S.H.W.)
The MUTUAL LM and CITIZENS’
Assurance Cn. Limited
