

/
ml
e
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
CHINA AND COMMUNISM —page 28
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 78—No. 4022
Wednesday, March 13, 1957
y
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
pHICHESTER CATHEDRAL in
Sussex is renowned for its 3elJ Tower,
a massive work of Perpendj|^lar style,
and the only existing English "example of
a detached bell-tower. It was built in
the 14th century to relieve th load on the
central tower, where the peat jf bells was
first housed. The earliest j L the bells
dates from 1583, and carcj seen by
climbing the .120 ft. tower, Iron, which an
extensive view of the city and surround-
ings is obtainable.
The cathedral, which dates from the
11th century, stands at the point where
Chichester's four principal streets meet
at right-angles, just as they have done
ever since the city, then known as
Regnum. was laid out by the Romans
nearly 2000 years ago. Ihroughout the
Roman occupation it was one of the
principal military and trading centres in
Britain; and there in the fifth century
the Saxon invaders came sailing up the
nearby creeks, stormed the city and
renamed it after Cissa, one of the leaders
of the invasion.
In its first century the cathedral was
more than once badly damaged by fire.
It also sustained damage during the
Reformation and during the Civil War,
but it still possesses the same charm that
characterises the city as a whole, and it
displays several features of unusual
interest. It is also the only cathedral with
modern corbels (on the south side),
representing 20th-century clerics, and
with King George V in their midst. The
interior contains some remarkable
Romanesque sculpture. To the south
of the cathedral are the cloisters, the
Bishop’s Palace and the secluded lawns
and precincts, above which the towers
and spire of the great church rise to form
a striking architectural group.
Throughout the Middle Ages the
cathedral attracted many pilgrims, who
came from all parts to visit the shrine of
St. Richard, a 13th-century bishop whose
humble life and strength of character
were in many ways reminiscent of St.
Francis of Assisi. His healing powers
were known far and wide, and though
700 years have passed, his fame still
attracts pilgrims to the great church
where he presided and where he is
commemorated.
For the lover of Georgian architecture
there can be few towns as delightful to
wander in as Chichester. Many of the
streets have remained virtually
unchanged since the 18th century, and
even the modern buildings, such as the
new County Hall, blend harmoniously
into the general picture of this perfect
English cathedral-city.
No. 340: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
THE BELL-TOWER OF CHICHESTER CATHEDRAL


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Svrtney
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you--fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
A WORD FOR BOLDREWOOD
Whilst Robbery Under Arms rolls
merrily on as one of our three “world’s
classics,” Rolf Boldrewood has fallen
into neglect as a literary figure. Thus
an erudite Sydney daily, after referring
to him last year in an editorial as
“Rolfe Boldr e w o o d,” recently
announced that a film was to be made
of “Robbery Under Arms” by “Rolph
Boldrewood.” It is refreshing, there-
fore, to find the misspelt author now
honored by two solid tributes, one
abroad and the other at home.
From Milan, Italy, has just come a
letter from Signorina Elena Faggioli
telling me that she has now received
her higher degree at the University of
Milan with a thesis on Rolf Boldre-
wood. Her Italian professors were
•intrigued, she. states, to read of the
strange world of cattle-duffers ana
bushrangers in the far, queer Aus-
tralian bush. So Starlight rides again
—in Milan.
Miss Faggioli, who had to go to
London to study her Boldrewood, was
grateful for critical and reference
material I sent her. This included
copies of a scholarly appreciation of
“Robbery Under Arms” by an Ameri-
can Fulbright Scholar who did post-
graduate research in Australian litera-
ture with me at the Canberra University
College in 1955, and references supplied
to me by Mr. Keast Burke.
Mr. Burke has now come forward
with his Alexander Browne (Rolf
Boldrewood): an Annotated Biblio-
graphy, Checklist, and Chronology.
This appears as No. 5 in the valuable
series of “Studies in Australian Biblio-
graphy”' edited by Walter W. Stone.
As a booklet of sixty pages it gives a
more extensive coverage on Browne
than the previous studies devoted to
Flenry Lawson. Furphy, Shaw Neilson,
and Roy Bridges. It even runs to a
photograph of a group in Gulgong in
1872 "displaying a moustached but
beardless Browne.
Mr. Keast Burke has done Boldre-
wood proud with eleven sections which
cover not only lists of the published
works, serial publications and uncol-
lected contributions to newspapers and
magazines, but also critical references
(with extracts) and lists of manu-
scripts, stories, articles, and poems.
He also adventures into biography with
a chronology of Boldrewood’s life and
references to both him and his father,
Captain Sylvester Brown —Boldrewood
seems to have added the “e” to his
family name somewhere in his early
forties.
The booklet brings together much
interesting material over a wide field.
It also corrects old errors surviving
even in the most recent reference-
books, such as the date of 1881 usually
attributed to the publication of
“Robbery Under Arms” as a serial in
the “Sydney Mail,” where it ran from
July, 1882, to August, 1883. The
bibliography itself, on the other hand,
contains a few literals and errors. For
instance, the “Australian Writers” of
Desmond Byrne is wrongly entitled,
and “The Fencing of Wanderowna”
(p. 15) should read “The Fencing of
Wanderoona.” A series like Mr.
Stone’s bibliographical studies demands
a scholarly and authoritative accuracy,
and there should be no minor detrac-
tion from the solid and valuable
research Mr. Burke has put into his
Browne.
Mr. Burke’s study is significant, I
feel, in that it lays a firm foundation
for two further studies: a full biography
of Browne and a critical assessment of
him as the novelist Rolf Boldrewood.
The need for this reassessment is clearly
shown by the critical extracts given by
Mr. Burke, which illustrate how
reputable authorities have’fallen into
many serious misunderstandings.
These centre around two main points
—the nationalist issue as to how far
Boldrewood was Australian (which
affects his historical place in the
development of our literature), and the
literary issue of his merit as a novelist.
On both points many critics, I
believe, have been woefully wrong.
Boldrewood has often been dis-
paraged as an immigrant writer who
had an English point of view, published
only for English readers, and sent his
heroes, like Kingsley, back to England.
In short, there was little Australian
about him. So runs the general indict-
ment, even if a few discerning critics,
like A. G. Stephens, H. M. Green and
lan Mair, were more penetrating—and
knowledgeable. For the facts, indeed,
are the very opposite of the charges.
Boldrewood was only a child of four
when brought to Australia. He was
bred here and spent his life here.
He spoke and wrote as an Australian
who knew his people, and loved his
country, although, of course, he wrote
as a conservative squatter of the
’eighties, not as a radical democrat of
the ’nineties. Only in his later novels,
largely potboilers, did he address him-
self to an English audience. Primarily
he wrote for Australian readers.
An examination of Mr. Burke’s
checklist reveals that of 18 volumes
of fiction no less than 12 first appeared
as serials or short-stories in local
periodicals. These include all his main
writings. His “Old Melbourne
Memories” was first published here.
In general, therefore, he wrote as an
Australian for Australian readers.
So, too, as Mr. Keast Burke points
out, Boldrewood rarely sent his heroes
back to Britain, and “the movement
of the characters is rather the other
way”—since Australia is depicted as
the place where English immigrants
can make both their fortune and their
home. Finally, “Robbery- Under
Arms” is the antithesis of “colonial.”
It is Australian in scene, action,
characters, idiom, and sentiment. It is,
in fact, the first Australian novel as
compared to previous novels by immi-
grant authors, and historically Boldre-
wood is the founding father of our
indigenous fiction.
On the score of literary merit Boldre-
wood was an extremely uneven writer.
The later novels are poor stuff. Despite
some vivid scenes and episodes, the
value of the squatting and mining
chronicles lies mainly in their inti-
mate documentation of life in their
periods. The characterisation is usually
superficial. In “Robbery Under
Arms,” however, Boldrewood brought
off, perhaps as a stroke of good luck,
a literary coup. Here he wrote better
than he knew —and better than our
criticism has usually realised.
To regard the novel as only a “Wild
Western” of bushrangers is ignorant as
well as snobbish, even if the brilliance
of the storytelling obscures other solid
literary qualities. To dismiss it as “a
classic by default” is nonsense. True, it
is not “great” in the sense we apply to
world masterpieces. Yet it deserves to
be one of our “classics.” It is still
unsurpassed in our fiction in its
remarkable narrative power, challenged
only by “For the Term of His Natural
Life” and “Capricornia.” Novels, after
all, are “stories,” as even E. M.
Forster admits, and as such “Robbery
Under Arms” can be placed alongside
“Ivanhoe” and “The Three
Musketeers.” Faults in the construc-
tion, such as conflicting time-sequences,
inconsistencies, and loose ends like
Warrigal’s speech and Rainbow’s star,
are minor beside the gusto which
sweeps the action forward in
memorable scenes.
The novel’s interest, however, goes
beyond the adventures to the characters
of the adventurers, so that the book can
be re-read and gain with fresh readings,
as I found when I read it through for
the fourth time. Starlight may be a
Captain Macheath of the bush to Dick,
but old Ben Marston’s realistic com-
ments on him partly offset Dick’s
romantic concept. Old Ben himself
is as solid as ironbark. The bush
people all come alive.
But Boldrewood’s gift is shown
best in the masterly way in which he
handles the telling of the tale in the
first-person by- Dick Marston ; the con-
sistency—with only a few exceptions —
with which Dick is presented ; and the
human interest of his rake’s-progress
from cattle-duffing to bushranging to
jail and death-sentence. A close study
reveals how fully the characterisation
of Dick is developed. Except for a few
prison reflections where the voice of
ex-magistrate Browne intrudes, even
Dick’s much-condemned “moralising”
is consistent, since it isn’t really moral
at all. Rather, Dick is consistently
pragmatic, unethical, and unreligious.
It is not remorse he feels for crime or
sin, but regret that he’s been such a
fool as to persist in “cross ways” which
would bring the law down on his
head.
The device of Dick as narrator
enabled Boldrewood to tell his story in
a first-class style, a style that is easy
and natural, yet racy and rich with the
picturesqueness of native idiom, vivid
with homely and striking images. It is
excellent prose in itself and in its suit-
ability to the characters and the story.
It is in. the sound naturalist tradition
of Defoe and Fielding.
The literary .merits of “Robbery
Under Arms” may be seen better if
compared with those of a recent Aus-
tralian novel highly praised' here and
abroad, Patrick White’s “The Tree of
Man,” The latter is sophisticated in
style and technique, brilliant in its
psychological subtleties, and impres-
sive in some descriptive passages. In
many ways the writing is far beyond
Boldrewood. Yet “Robbery Under
Arms” is a better-written novel than
“The Tree of Man.” Obviously
superior in narrative force and
emotional interest, it also gives a
sharper picture of the countryside, and
its characters are more vital and solid
—the symbolic Stan Parker is a
shadowy figure beside Dick and Ben
Marston. Its prose is, in general, more
natural, unified, and effective. Above
all, “The Tree of Man”—like many
other Australian novels of merit —
never achieves that vitality which
“Robbery Under Arms” undoubtedly
commands—the vitality of an enduring
novel.
T. Inglis Moore.
Christmas Then
Nostalgia for the solidity and security
of Victorian times, to say nothing of
their exquisite tinkle and tinsel-glitter,
is producing many reminiscences such
as The Visiting Moon, by Celia Furse
(Faber), an account of .Christmas in a
country mansion at a time early enough
to be Victorian and late enough for
the mansion to be, lit by electricity.
Little Antonia goes with her nurse
and the baby to spend Christmas with
her grandpapa and grandmama.
Grandpapa is not only rector of the
village but also its squire; he reads
morning prayers for the butler, the
housekeeper, the footmen, the coach-
man and handyman, the cook and an
assortment of maids, to whom are
added the maids of the women-guests
and their children’s nannies and
governesses—and the more than 20
guests, his sons and daughters and
sons- and daughters-in-law, with their
children; a full house.
Christmas consists of a number of
events as highly organised and as set
in their observance as a racing-season
of today. It begins on Christmas Eve,
with the children doing a little amateur
decorating and dining with the grown-
ups—the only time the children are
allowed into the dining-room with their
elders; even Christmas dinner they
have with their governesses. • The
children hang up their stockings, which
are duly filled for Christmas morning,
and on Christmas night take part in
the ceremony of the Tree, lit with real
candles and hung with presents for
the whole party, some of which,
presents for aunts and uncles, the
children have bought at a “shop” con-
ducted by Grandma, at prices heavily
reduced to suit their pocket-money.
Boxing Day is merely the day after
Christmas. The men go shooting, the
children procure tea-trays which the
housekeeper preserves for the purpose,
and slide on them downhill in the
snow. The next day an uncle digs out
an old toboggan, and young John rides
postillion on a horse that draws Antonia
over the fields on the toboggan. On
the next day, a Sunday, Grandpa reads
to them about the stars and marks the
children’s heights on the wall; and on
the next day the children are taken
in Grandpapa’s omnibus (horsedrawn)
to a party at Lord Steyne’s, where they
dance with other children and Santa
Claus brings more presents. That night
the adults put on a play for Grandpapa
and Grandmama.
On the next day the skates are dug
out and they all go skating on the lake,
and the children rehearse their play,
specially written for them from the
“Strewelpeter” book. On New Year’s
Eve there is a little party to visiting
children, and the children’s play, in
which Antonia plays Strewelpeter, goes
on. On New Year’s Day the whole
house-party picnics by the lake with
the food laid-out on rugs on the snow,
and Grandpapa takes Grandmama
skating . . . and so pn to Antonia acting
the Snow Queen in a bower specially
contrived by “that idiot Bowles” in the
garden, and handing out more presents
to visitors.
Last scene of all is the taking-down
of decorations on Twelfth Night and
snapdragon in the servants’ hall—
everyone round the table lit only by
brandy burning on a bowl of raisins,
snatching raisins from the bowl.
It is told in the tone of a girls’ story-
book, hut Lady Furse is the daughter
of Sir Henry Newbolt, and quite
obviously it is a precise memoir of
actual happenings, its charm empha-
sised by such fine touches of truth as
.the awkwardness ..the little girl felt at
|.he thought of the servants’ quarters.
Yanks at Lenin's Court
JiAs the rarity 'of Caesar’s “Gallic
derives from its fighter who
could write, so George F. Kennan’s
Russia Leaves the War (Faber)
presents a diplomat who is also an
historian, and an historian who is also
a diplomat. Mr. Kerman was for 27
years a specialist in Russian affairs
in the American Foreign Service,
and was in 1952 appointed U.S.
Ambassador to Russia. Since 1953,
when he retired, he has become
Professor at the Institute for Advanced
Study in Princeton, N.J.
He is unlike Cmsar in that this
present book is not memoirs, but a
study of a previous Ambassador to
Russia, Governor David R. Francis,
who had to cope with the Russian
Revolution. The book is the first of a
series on American-Russian relations
from 1917 to 1921; its more than 500
pages cover less than five months’
history from the Bolshevik seizure of
power on November 7, 1917, to the
Russian ratification of the peace-treaty
of Brest-Litovsk on March 15, 1918.
The dust has had time to settle, and the
book is the result of a scholarly raking
of all the records of the American State
departments, of private papers,
memoirs and treatises; thick with
documentation; a masterpiece of
research and special knowledge; a
treatise, at the same time, on the ways
and means of diplomacy.
It is also one of the funniest of books
on a serious subject—and not, one
imagines, without the deadpan-
diplomatic Mr. Kennan’s contrivance;
early in the piece, in an account of
the Root mission sent out by President
Wilson to report on means of aiding
Russia, the reader goes back more
carefully over an unaccented passage
about Mr. Root’s recommendations: —
.... and secondly for a programme
to strengthen the morale of the
Russian Army, mainly through- the
introduction of recreational activities
under the guidance of the Young
Men’s Christian Association,
and decides that maybe it is only in
the light of later events that such a
proposal seems ingenuous.
Again, the situation of the Americans
in Petrograd was so full of humor that
it needed no more than straightforward
treatment. There was Ambassador
Francis, former Governor of Missouri,
former U.S. Secretary of the Interior,
a bon viveur of the cigar-and-spittoon
brigade, sent out in 1916, an old man,
with, his negro valet, to eope with the
Provisional Government and then with
(<Continued on page 35)


PHONE B ©951
:o'd 9 ZllZ XOfl
m
m
m
m
$m
Albert style
Slippers
Tan calf only, lamb’s-
wool lined, leather soles,
full and half sizes 5 to
10. Priced at 51/- pair.
1
a
Lambskin Slippers
In brown only, they
have pump leather soles
in full and half sizes 5 to
10. Priced at 52/- pair.
Check felt Slippers
With comfy foam rub-
ber soles, full sizes only.
5-10, 23/-. Boots with
zipp'fastening, 31/- pr.
Lambskin
Snow boots amd slippers
from A.H 9 s wilt guarantee your feet warm this winter
This winter, you will travel more comfortably when wearing genuine lambskin snow boots and
slippers, guaranteed to keep your feet warm this winter, you’ll be right in step stylewise, too, so select your
pair of winter smartness from Anthony Horderns’ large range to-day. These snow boots
and slippers are in the softest give-and-take leathers, some of which are wool lined with zip fastenings,
in many sizes to choose from.
I
m
m
n*
it
11
Calf Snow Boots
In Black or Tan, fully
lamb’s-wool lined, derby
style, genuine welted
leather soles. Full and
half sizes 5-10. 110/6 pr.
Lamb shin Boot
Zip fastening, have
pump leather soles, in
full and half sizes 5 to
10. Priced at 66/6 pair.
Unillustrated
Wool lined Boots
Brown or Black suede,
zip fastening and foam
rubber soles, sizes 5 to
10. Priced at 49/6 pair.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 13,1957
Vol. 78—No. 4022
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man’*
Directors:
H. FC. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD -OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
■ ’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
SEATO AND WORLD NEEDS
SEATO,- meeting in Canberra this week, is still an
instrument of regional defence, or perhaps only
the ghost of an instrument. The view of a Sydney
daily paper of immense tonnage that it has a
military force capable of acting as a deterrent to
open aggression in the treaty area and which has
“forced the Communists to switch to undercover
tactics” is highly optimistic.
If anybody calls the tactics in northern
Vietnam, where the Communists have settled down
in firm control, or the rousing organising trips of
Chou En-lai, not to mention Khrushchev and
Bulganin, “undercover” operations, the word must
have a new meaning.
Communist subversion, from the time of the
middle ’twenties, when the plans were made in
Australia by a Russian delegate aided by Mr. Jock
Garden and some choice Oriental spirits, has been
constant in its policy and efforts, and is now firmly
rooted as part of the life of the Orient and South-
east Asian and Australasian areas. And wherever
it has need to make a move forward —in Man-
churia, in China, in Indo-China (which all the
nations of the West proclaimed vital to the safety
of the world), it has met with enough success to
be alarming in all cases, Seato or no Seato, U.S. or
no U.S., and U.N. or no U.N.
Moreover, the U.S. and the U.N. have made
Communist progress much easier because they have
seemed to place the removal of the stabilising
influences in the area, those of Britain and France,
above the overall objective of keeping back the
Communist tide.
From the fall of Singapore onwards they
carried on an ill-informed but persistent campaign
against British “colonialism” in India and Malaya,
French “colonialism” in Indo-China, and particu-
larly Dutch “colonialism” in Indonesia, which
unstabilised those areas and made them fruit likely
to fall over the fence into the Iron Curtain yard.
In the Middle East they have put strength behind
Nasser, who is admittedly a partner in the Com-
munist conspiracy, and they have sought to divide
the Commonwealth and bring its smaller individual
sections within the American sphere of influence in
Seato.
The only real stabilising that has been done
has been that in Malaya, with which the theorists
and the talkers have had nothing to do. At the
moment, Siam, where Seato’s heart is supposed to
beat, is warding-off a Communist coup by the skin
of the Government’s teeth, the Indonesian leader-
ship prefers Communism to Seatoism, India seems
to be heading for a deliberate break with the Com-
monwealth, and the Ceylonese Government is
apparently only held back from similar tendencies
by a reversal of public-election trends in the
Colombo municipal poll which has given Banda-
ranaike’s Leftist, Moscow-loving Administration a
slap in the face.
At this juncture, on the verge of its conference,
Seato has issued an annual report. In 1953 Mao
Tse-tung issued, in Moscow, a blueprint for
Communist conquest of the world via Asia, which
was published in the U.S. Senate by Senator
Knowland. The Red timetable has been running
in accord with it ever since.
At an advanced stage of the South-east Asian
rot Seato announces blandly that “an all-out cam-
paign of Communist subversion is being waged in
the treaty area, is in fact the main threat to the
area”:—
Every device is being used to weaken the free
nations therein, so that the eventual Communist
domination of South and South-east Asia may be
secured.
The eight members of the Seato Committee who
have prepared the report are even convinced that
“behind the subversion campaign are Communist
armed forces which have been steadily increased
and which are so disposed as to be ready for use at
a moment’s notice should armed aggression once
again better suit Communist aims.”
They have also discovered numerous other
dangers—the danger of Communist countries using
trade for political purposes and rendering Asiatic
small nations dependent on them, for instance. But
they still believe, in the face of what has been
happening in the Middle East, in India, Ceylon,
Siam, Indo-China and Indonesia and the triumphant
progress of the Afro-Asian bloc in U.N. meetings,
that “action to counter subversion has been effec-
tive, to the extent that Communism has made no
substantial progress in member-countries in the past
year, although the situation in the treaty area as
a whole was less satisfactory.”
Those who follow Communist actions and
successes and the development of weaknesses in
Western cohesion must boggle as they read such
statements as these and the confiding assertion that
the “danger of overt aggression is less apparent,
but that we cannot assume that the Communists
have renounced force.”
Indeed they haven’t —when they do they will
have renounced Communism also; for, as Mr.
Denis Warner pointed out in his powerful book
“Out of the Gun,” the whole Communist theory
of progress in the East, as elsewhere, is based on
the sentences paraphrased from Lenin which appear
in Mao Tse-tung’s “Problems of War and
Strategy”:—
Every Communist must grasp the truth:
political power grqws out of the barrel of the
gun.... Experience in the class-struggle of the
era of imperialism teaches us that the working-
class and the toiling masses cannot defeat the
armed bourgeoisie and landlords except by
resorting to the power of the gun.... war can
only be abolished through war.
In the face of what is inherent in this theory,
which is the firm basis of Communist world policy
and of its plans of “peace,” what Mr. Warner calls
in his book “Seato’s toothless grin” was never more
obvious than in its so-much-acclaimed and com-
placent and platitudinous report. It was never
more, to Asians, “a joke and a propaganda-tag
a fighter without guns, a fist without an arm.”
Forestalling the report, Mr. Warner wrote that
Mr. Dulles might talk till the cows came home,
but that the grim fact was that Communism is
committed to the programme of waging “a life-
and-death war until its aim is achieved,” that
aim being Communist conquest of the globe.
The fight is thus a global fight. The signs over
the past few weeks suggest that Washington has
begun to realise the need for real co-operation with
allies and not a double standard under which it
has been threatening enemies and undermining
friends under the guise of “anti-colonialism.”
There is no room for two or three or four
Western defence organisations—Seato, Nato and
what have you; but only for one, strong and
determined, not given to gabbling half-baked
schemes of material aid. Such economics the
bandit-chiefs and tyrants of lesser Asia accept with
a supercilious grin before asking Moscow to put up
its ante as a preliminary to getting the limit out of
both sides.
What is needed is global strategy based on
something as hard and determined as the plan of
the Moscow-Peking Axis.
N.S.W. Transport Bankrupt
NEW SOUTH WALES Transport Minister
Enticknap’s statement on the progress report of
Ebasco Services, the American consultants who
are investigating Government transport in the
Cahill State, dealt mainly with the railways. Of the
tramways it merely said that the biggest saving
would come from the replacement of trams by
buses. Possibly the final report will contain other
recommendations as well. If not, then Commis-
sioner for Transport Shoebridge will be entitled
to point out that he has been telling the Govern-
ment that very thing for years and years. For that
matter, it has been Government policy for 20 years.
A plan for the gradual replacement of trams by
buses was drawn up in 1937, and, although the
war years necessitated its deferment, a start was
made soon after the war, when large orders for
diesel-engined buses were placed.
By June, 1950, the Newcastle tramway-system
had been entirely converted to buses, and since
then buses have been gradually replacing trams
on selected metropolitan routes. The depart-
mental comment on the order of replacement is
that “due regard has been paid to the need for
ensuring that the utmost use is extracted from the
tramway assets before abandoning them.” Those
with firsthand experience of travel in some of the
ancient vehicles recently retired from service might
be pardoned for thinking that the department had
in some cases carried its devotion to this principle
a trifle too far.
In his latest annual report (for the year ended
June 30, 1956) Mr. Shoebridge repeats that conver-
sion to buses, “coupled with the further extension
of one-man bus operations, offers the greatest means
available to the department for improving its overall
future financial position.”
The Shoebridge report for 1955-56 is not a
happy one, but it is not remarkable for that —it is
many a long year since there was anything to be
happy about in N.S.W. Government transport. The
year was not a successful one from any point of
view. If it be the function of a public-transport
system to make a profit, then, to put it mildly,
Mr. Shoebridge’s trams and buses aren’t performing
that function. If the purpose is to provide service
for the public and merely cover expenses, they’re
failing on both counts. Last year their income
fell short of expenses by £4.138.101. Service to
the public must be judged by patronage, and in
1955-56, despite increased population, fewer people
travelled on trams and buses than in the previous
year. Finally, if, as some people contend, the
vehicles are run for the benefit of the employees,
they are still far from achieving their object, as
there were 17 stoppages through industrial disputes
during the year.
By far the biggest factor in the increased cost
of running the Sydney and Newcastle transport-
system has been the rising wage-bill, and the com-
missioner points out that, although the basic-wage,
rose by £3 16s. a week between 1951 and 1956,
and that in addition there were substantial increases
in margins, long-service-leave payments and other
payroll items, his department had not been
permitted to make any increases in fares during
the period. Fares were increased on July 1 last,
but the effect of this will not be felt until the end
of the current financial year.
A table published in the report shows the
increasing demands of wages on income. In 1938-39.
when the system was being run at a slight, profit, of
every £1 collected in fares 3s. was needed to pay
interest and sinking-fund charges. Materials and
services accounted for 4s. lid. and wages 12s. Last
year interest-charges took only 2s. 2d. out of each
£1 of income; materials took slightly less than in
pre-war days—4s. 9d. Wages used up all that was
left and Bs. 6d. besides. Put another way, wages
absorbed the entire inpome of the department and
reached out to the Treasury for another 7d. on
every £1 of income. In addition, the Treasury had
to pay for all materials bought and also stand the
interest bill.
It is significant that the wage-content of the
transport-bill dropped slightly between 1952 and
1955, but jumped steeply in 1956. Increased margins
granted during the year and made retrospective to
December, 1954, account for some of the increases,
but reintroduition of quarterly adjustments, a
deliberate Government policy, was also a
potent factor^
The commissioner had a strong case for higher
fares four years ago, but for political reasons the
Cahill Government rejected his advice. Compared
with the pre-war year the basic wage had increased
by 212 per cent, by 1956; the cost of food and
groceries by 236 per cent, and of clothing by 290
per cent. Tram- and bus-fares had only risen by
113 per cent. The main rise in transport costs
occurred in the period 1951-53, and in his 1953
report the Commissioner urged a rise in fares,
pointing out that the net loss for each of the two
preceding years had exceeded £3 million and that
he could see no other way of retrieving the position.
The Cahills refused to take such an unpopular step,
preferring to go on hoping for something to turn up.
All that turned up during the next two years were
two more £3 million deficits. By that time a general
election was due, so they waited until that hurdle
was safely negotiated before giving Shoebridge his
long-asked-for higher fares.
In part-explanation of the anomaly of an
increasing population and a decline in the number
of passengers, Mr. Shoebridge quotes detailed
figures to show that all of the population-increase
between the 1947 and 1954 censuses was in outer
suburbs which are not served by the department's
trams and buses. In the area served by the depart-
ment the population actually declined. This is
undoubtedly correct, but the tacit admission that
the transport-system has been unable to extend to
meet the growing needs of new areas is an extra-
ordinary indictment of the policy of the Govern-
ment.
Last year’s loss of £4,138,101 brought the total
post-war deficit of the tram- and bus-system to
£19,787,400. Year after year the Treasury has had
to dip into Consolidated Revenue to make good
transport losses, using for the purpose money which
would otherwise have been available for badly-
needed schools and hospitals. Even so, transport
finances are in an almost hopeless condition. Mr.
Shoebridge remarks plaintively:—
The amounts *so provided by the Treasury
each year have, however, been considerably short
of the published annual deficits, and, in fact,
have been intended only to be sufficient to enable
the Department to meet its cash commitments.
The effect of this is that interest and sinking-
fund contributions appear in the department’s
accounts as expenditure, but are not paid; they are
shown in the balance-sheet as a debt owing to the
Treasury. At the same time provision is made each
year for depreciation and other reserves, but these
are virtually non-existent, as they are not supported
by cash or other tangible assets.
What Mr. Shoebridge seems to be driving at is
that if the Treasury would pay him these amounts
he would be able to pay them back and square his
books. The likelihood of this happening is rather
remote. All this adds up to the fact that N. S. Wales
Govern ment-transport finances are in a condition
which in a private business would be described as
bankruptcy. Perhaps Ebasco will be able to find
another word for it.


PEIPING JOHN


PLAIN ENGLISH
Back to Jock Garden
How destitute of originality Labor has
becofne under the leadership of Dr. Evatt
and the State leaders Cahill, Gair and
Cain is proved by the fact that a “back-
to-Socialism” movement is being con-
ducted at the Federal Biennial A.L.P.
Conference in Brisbane.
The socialisation objective is, of course,
the only objective in the party platform.
It was placed there in 1921 by the efforts
of J. S. (“Jock”) Garden, ably supported
by Scullin, Curtin and others.
For long periods it has lain dormant,
a thing which every Labor politician has
been anxious to demonstrate (on the
election - platform) to be a mere
chimera: something which doesn’t mean
what it says.
Resolution after resolution of triennial
or bierfnial conferences has watered it
down or affected to bury it.
Labor has never recovered from the
last move to introduce Socialism. The
final attempt by the Chifley Government
brought results which made Labor look
as if it had been hit by the typhoons
Martha and Arthur on the same evening.
This took place when Labor seemed
to have completely recovered from the
effects of its Socialistic illness of the
depression years and to be in office for
ever. It has not been in Federal office
since 1949.
Even Dr. Evatt shuddered away from
the word “socialism” after the 1947-49
bank-nationalisation compaign, and at
the next elections rushed to assert that
nationalisation was dead as a practical
doctrine because the Constitution would
not allow of it.
Now, however, it is back in its old
Garden form at a moment when Labor
is in rags, when the Democratic Labor
party in N.S.W. has announced that its
leader, Alan Manning, will fight Dr.
Evatt in Barton. It is reintroduced at a
time when it is almost impossible for
Labor to hold a branch-meeting in the
principal States without a Donnybrook,
and scarcely a week passes without
expulsion of somebody or threats of
expulsion.
The first industrial business which will
need socialising if that plan is made an
immediate objective is Labor funerals.
There will be so many political funerals
at the next election that mass-graves will
be required.
A Futile Stoppage
On Wednesday last week the entire work-
force of the N. S, Wales northern coal-
fields took the day off with the avowed
object of drawing attention to the
unemployment problem in the coal
industry. That was the reason given by
the organisers of the stoppage, but more
* than 10,000 of the 12,000 men employed
in the northern mines apparently knew of
better ways of spending the day than in
attending the stopwork-meetings called
to discuss the matter. *
Those who did turn up agreed without
argument to the propositions put to them,
chief of which was a plan for a reduction
of the working-week to 35 hours. This is
to be sought not by an appeal to the
arbitration court, but by direct approach
to the N.-S.W. Government —the members
for coalfields seats are apparently to put
pressure on Cahill and co. to induce
them to emulate McGirr’s 40-hour-week
gift.
The suggestion illustrates once again
the unwillingness of the Miners’ Federa-
tion to face unpleasant facts. The N.S.W.
coalfields lost much of their inter-State
trade largely because the irresponsibility
of the Miners’ Federation forced up their
costs and priced them out of the market.
Meanwhile the local demand has
increased and absorbs a greater output
than the whole of Australia did in pre-
war days. The general conclusion is that
it will continue to expand, provided the
industry can keep its costs down. How
this can be done by cutting the working-
week by 12i per cent, the federation
makes no attempt to explain, but the
suggestion is singularly ill-timed, as both
the Victorian and South Australian rail-
ways are just talking of switching back
from oil-fuel to coal for some of their
locomotives. They certainly won’t do so
if the price of coal looks like soaring
again.
Proposals for nationalisation of the
mines have already been turned down by
the Cahills, but the meetings proposed
it again just the same, as they did the
imposition of an extra tariff on oil-fuel—
already rejected by the A.C.T.U., which
has to consider its men in the oil-industry
as well as the miners. Other suggestions
put to the meetings were sound enough—
development of new markets, greater use
of by-products of coal; new industries
for the. coalfields —but hardly sufficient
grounds for losing 12,000 men a day’s pay.
The Joint Coal Board, representing the
N. S. Wales and Federal Governments,
has been studying them for a considerable
time. Of them all, the finding of new
industries for the coalfields seems to offer
the most lasting solution.
Two factors work against it —the past
history of the Miners’ Federation and the
negative attitude of the N.S.W. Labor
Government. On paper the N.S.W. coal-
fields should win hands-down as a site
for oversea concerns wishing to open up
in Australia. Yet in the competition for
new industries Victoria is beating N.S.W.
hollow, and S.A. Premier Playford,
with few natural advantages to help his
State, is able to give Cahill six months’
start and then beat him to the contract.
Australian Book Fair '
The Prime Minister, who always turns
up in Melbourne if he can to give Aus-
tralian art or books a kick along, pointed
out when he opened the Australian Book
Fair in the Lower Town Flail that the
apologetic stage of writing or producing
an Australian book had now passed.
Even so, he was an edition behind,
since publishers now claim their English
agents are keen to get big shipments of
the better Australian books; superior
Australian authors sell freely in the U.S.,
and the locals have captured (since 1948)
a substantial part of the 75 per cent,
sales which imported books held in the
Australian market.
For much of the week, day and night,
it was open, the Australian Book Fair
was packed, especially with children after
school, indicating a livelier interest by
headmasters in their native literature and
a more sympathetic audience for the
coming generation of writers.
More than 300 titles were on show, and
Melbourne University Press won the
honors with five of the 15 chosen as the
best entries to be sent to England to
represent Australian book-production at
the International Book Exhibition in
London this year.
Public-service Success
Youngest permanent head in the
Commonwealth public service is Donald
George Anderson, who has been Director-
General of Civil Aviation since January 1,
1956, and a few days ago reached the
fine old age of 40.
Anderson’s rise in the service seems
almost incredible, if you can believe those
yarns about public servants dozing away
their days and getting automatic promo-
tion. He didn’t join the p.s. until 1946.
Before the last war he was a country
school-teacher who liked to do a spot of
freelance journalism. He joined the
R.A.A.F. in 1940, was flying over the
Kokoda Trail when the Japanese were
there, flew the first transport aircraft into
Milne Bay and Labuan, was in the battle
for Wau, and was a test-and-acceptance
pilot with the Yanks.
About 1945, a year after Anderson
was appointed superintendent of air-
traffic control in the department, world
authorities, on aviation began to notice
his work, and to talk about it, so that
merit is undoubtedly one of the reasons
for his success in the service. The major
reason is the old, familiar one: hard
work.
He was born at Waikerie (S.A.), the
prophetic abo. name for silver wings ;
Waikerie, because of its thermal currents,
is a favorite haunt of Australian gliders.
Within the last six years Anderson has
been opening-batsman for Essendon in
the first district elevens, and he heads a
youngish staff who are inspirited by the
vast development in air-travel, by what
it is doing for their country, and may do
for mankind. He’s an impressive giant of
6ft. 4in. and just short of 17 stone.
TV and Press Interviews
[From “Mug-gra Way”]
One of the time-honored ways of convey-
ing information or opinions to the news-
papers and radio news-services—and
sometimes of checking on public opinion
—is the “press interview.” It is used from
Prime Ministers to visiting crooners, and
its atmosphere varies from the strictly
formal to the gay and bantering. In
recent years the press-photographers have
sometimes provided comic relief by flash-
ing-off their bulbs as the interviewee’s
mouth is wide open or his eyes are closed,
and generally most of those present have
had a good time.
Now, however, Australian journalists
and their newspapers are faced with the
considerable menace of the televised
interview. Some of the problems it
presents were apparent during the Seato
conference in Canberra, and it is obvious
that they will have to be faced and solved
at once. It is recognised, of course, that
the owners of the newspapers, who
are mostly also proprietors of commercial
TV-stations, may not care very much
about the principles involved, and it is
also recognised that TV news-services are
as legitimately entitled to news-“breaks”
as the run-of-the-mill reporters and
political and sporting roundsmen. It is
also acknowledged that so eminent a
person as the President of the United
States has allowed his weekly press-con-
ferences to be televised —although it is
believed they are filmed and sub-edited
before release, both to give the news-
agettcies time to write and lodge their
stories before the public sees and hears
the interview and to prevent any material
which should be “off the record” from
being televised.
In Canberra an approach has already
been made to Mr. Menzies for his
occasional press-interviews to be televised,
but no decision has been made, and none
is likely to be made until the press-
gallery has considered it. In the mean-
time the televised interview with the visit-
ing military advisers to Seato was a fore-
taste of what is in store, and at least one
senior journalist who was present has
declared that he will take part in no more.
He objected to the prepared questions,
which were asked in the first part of
the interview, to the general atmosphere
with the TV editors and technicians
apparently in full charge of proceedings,
and to the possibility that any questions
which he asked himself, and the replies
thereto, might well become public long
before his own paper with his stories
went to press.
.The problem isn’t peculiar to Aus-
tralia, and the same difficulties have been
encountered, if not overcome, elsewhere.
One trouble is, of course, that a person
being televised during an interview isn’t
inclined to give the background material
which in most cases is the most helpful
part of the story.
Advance, Swan Hill!
If the eyes of the world are not already
focused on Swan Hill, in eager anticipa-
tion of the annual Shakspeare Festival
on April 6, that is possibly because the
world has some doubts as to where Swan
Hill is. It is not, for instance, any hill
actually sat upon by the Swan of Avon.
But there really should be no difficulty
about that. It is in Victoria (Australia),
on the Murray. Its pop.—a point always
of immense interest to tourists and travel-
writers—is 5197, neatly, but not wholly
satisfactorily divided into 2543 males
and 2654 females. Very likely the entire
111 unoccupied females are engaged in
the Shakspeare Festival, thus showing
how Art can redress the balance of
Nature.
Information al The Bulletin’s
disposal doesn’t indicate precisely what,
apart from the Shakspeare Festival,
Swan Hill is “noted” for. It seems
indiscriminately to indulge in wheat,
wool, fat lambs, lucerne, dairying, fruit,
butter, cheese, flour and (soft) cordials ;
and it is just as well that the Festival
has come into being to give point and
direction to all this useful but prosaic
activity.
How long the Festival has been going
is another doubtful point. According to
the brochure which the organisers have
kindly sent to The Bulletin, little or
no scenery was used for the first produc-
tions ; the play was the thing. For
properties, “all that was needed was a
bank of flowers”; and, “one property
frequently used in the historical plays
was an image of a newly cut-off human
head.” “This,” the brochure some-
what unnervingly adds, “the audience
demanded and eyed critically.” Presum-
ably if it didn’t act nicely it was executed.
But perhaps, on second thought, this
ferocious piece of information on “Early
Shakspeare Productions” relates to Eliza-
bethan times. We must be satisfied with
the tamer revelation that the Swan Hill
National Theatre “came into being after
World War II and was formed with a
nucleus of members of the Barnstormers,
a dramatic group trained by Marjorie
McLeod to raise money for patriotic
funds.”
Some of these original members began,
says another note, as very juvenile
fairies. Now they play leading parts.
Others have married —an even worse
disability than having been born a fairy
—but they, too, still play on. There is
stamina in Swan Hill.
And, whenever it began, there is no
doubt that the Festival is in being ; and
that from Saturday, April 6, to Tuesday,
April 9, Swan Hill is going to have a
whale of a time. On Saturday afternoon
is the grand street procession, featuring
the Southern Command Band, with floats
of Anne Hathaway’s cottage and others
decorated by the C.W.A. and the C.W.A.
Younger Set and Mrs. E. Ward.
That same afternoon, punctuated at all
times by the Southern Command Band,
there is the Old English Fair, with folk-
dancing, maypole-dancing and afternoon-
tea. At night, a “programme of poetry
and music,” which sounds a little
ominous: it may be John Antill, and it
may be square-dancing ; it may be Henry
Lawson (a ten-to-one bet on that) and
it may, by some miracle, be Miss
Rosemary Dobson or Mr. Robert D.
FitzGerald.
On Monday night the great deed is
done: Shakspeare’s “King Henry VIII”
by the assembled talent of Swan Hill.
The local picture-theatre is nobly co-
operating by putting on the film of
“Richard the Third” on the Tuesday
night, while the actors celebrate in a
banquet to be followed —alas —by the
adjudicator’s criticisms; and, though the
play will be in the Town Hall, the whole
takes place in a salubrious setting of
water, mud and redgums on the banks
of the Murray.
This is how great things—possibly—
begin; like the Ontario festival, and
Stratford-upon-Avon itsejlf- And even if
they are not great, they are fun.
The Bulletin wishes Swan Hill well
with its festival; and notes with a
moment of grief that no Australian
play is mentioned in all this. We won't
really be great or grown-up till we can
have an Old Australian Fair on Saturday-
arvo and an Australian play somehow
included in the programme. Swan Hill
did, though, put on “Enduring as the
Camphor Tree,” by the Australian-born
Russell Oakes, during the year.
. ■<»-
Star of the East
[From “Collins Street”]
Melbourne’s first Sunday paper,
“Sunday Star,” is being examined with
critical interest in Victoria 1 because
“The Argus” had, in fact, been on the
brink of producing one for two years. It
is a crackajack effort as a Sunday paper,
but lifeless and inadequate on city
standards.
Technically, the paper is just on perfect.
It is clean, bright and readable, but that
isn’t so commendable when you realise
so little of it relates to the day’s news.
Still, it avoids the modem Australian
style which, English and American news-
papermen complain, looks as if an
amateur had been given a free go with a
type-book, and, Australian readers com-
plain, leaves them uncertain, in the welter
of headlines and pansy-type introductions,
where anything begins and follows on.
Almost all of the 28 tabloid “Star”
pages are devoted to magazine articles.
There are four pages of news, with strong
emphasis on the eastern (middle-class)
Melbourne suburbs in which it circulates
free; a sporting section with, unfortun-
ately, little spot sporting-news (which is
expensive to collect), and an attractive
show of ads.
The proprietors plan to reach a circula-
tion of 210,000 in stages. The first print
was 70,000, and the second was to be
140,000. Sunday newspapers can’t be sold
legally regularly under one of Victoria’s
wowser Acts, so the paper has to be free.
(Still, Sydney “Telegraph” and “Sun-
Herald” sell 12,000 or so between them
in Melbourne every Sunday.)
Melbourne newspaper executives, look-
ing glumly at the rising cost of newsprint
and services and the static selling-prices
of the papers of threepence and four-
pence, wonder how the “Star” can give
away 28 precious pages; but eastern-
suburban advertisers are reported to be
very interested, and encouraging ; and, of
course, the circulation department won’t
have to cope with cancelled subscriptions.
Canal-opening
[By “Ek Dum”]
Israel withdrew from the Gaza Strip and
the approaches to the Akaba Gulf during
the week, but there is still a deal of
mystery about the business.
Nasser has given no indication that he
intends to obey the Security Council
orders to allow free traffic into the Akaba
Gulf, and the waters and approaches will
have to be kept free by a display of U.N.
force, as if Nasser were an enemy and not
a member of the United Nations.
On February 26 a band of Egyptian
commandos broke through the U.N.
0 Continued on next page)


Emergency Force lines very successfully,
crossed the Israeli line into Gaza Strip
and kidnapped the chairman of a local
council, a Muslim, who a month before
had praised the Israeli administration of
the Strip and welcomed the declaration
that the area would remain in Israeli
control.
The retirement of the Israelis and the
passing by Congress of the resolutions
authorising the application of the Eisen-
hower doctrine have done little to settle
the Middle East situation.
Nasser obviously intends to proceed
with the destruction of Israel at his leisure
and to continue to block Israeli access to
the Gulf of Akaba, either by the use of its
own or foreign shipping. He said so in
an interview in almost so many words.
President Eisenhower has said that
unless an international court decides
otherwise, the U.S.A. will regard freedom
of passage into the Akaba Gulf as a
right.
The canal is now to be open to 500-ton
ships, and Nasser apparently proposes,
with the likely support of the U.S. and
Russia, to enforce nationalistic control
and the payment of tolls to Egypt in
defiance of all agreements and resolutions
of the Powers concerned.
Mr. Dulles decrees that no force must
be used against him —unless, of course,
the U.S.A. decides that it would be right
to use it. It seems to be the sole
authority in the West, according to the
Washington concept, which has authority
to define moral issues or to say what is or
is not aggression or breach of agreement.
Other nations differ more and more.
Mr. Mollet, in Washington, was out-
spoken on the need for a joint free-world
policy on the Middle East. He described
Israel as a country which had been
“compelled to resort to its elementary
right of self-defence,” one which he
“refused to brand as an aggressor.” Of
Egypt, he said that little trust could be
placed in the word of the Egyptian
Government, in the light of its blockage
of the canal without any military justifica-
tion and its blackmailing delays in clear-
ing it. He added firmly that “the
economic life of Europe and countries of
South-east Asia could not be allowed
to hang on the goodwill of an Egyptian
dictator.” The U.K. and France have
agreed on their policy on the canal.
Canada is taking a strong stand and
its Prime Minister declared that if Nasser
did not come to heel and facilitate the
opening of the canal force might have
to be used against him.
Meanwhile, shipping companies as a
whole look forward with dismay to the
prospect of seeing the canal opened for
traffic and with no international guarantee
of a reasonable level of dues or against
discrimination, and without a definite
programme for carrying out the urgent
improvements and expansions which had
been planned to meet the needs of the
growing oil trade.
There is an obvious fear that the cost
of unblocking the canal is going to be
pushed on to the shoulders of canal-users,
since the contributions to U.N. for the
purpose are voluntary and there is no
enthusiasm to contribute. Moreover, it is
feared that they will be made to pay
to recoup Egypt’s sorry financial condi-
tion, and also—in the light of Mr. Dulles’s
continual references to the freedom which
U.S. shipping must enjoy in the area—
that there will be discrimination as
between nations.
POLITICAL POINTS
A s soon as the Seato talks finished
in Canberra today a small army of work-
men will set to work restoring the Parlia-
ment House interior to something like its
normal appearance, removing special
equipment from the two Chambers and
several offices, taking away the sound-
proof doors that sealed the press galleries,
and generally preparing for the formal
opening by the Governor-General next
Tuesday. For the last week the accent in
Canberra has been on defence. Next
week it will be back to politics, with a
dash of economics, and the spice of gaiety
supplied by the party on Tuesday evening.
There have been a lot of disappointed
aspirants for tickets to the “do,” and a
special committee had to be appointed to
go through the lists of names supplied by
the members of both Houses.
• •
Eisenhower’s assurance that America
regards both the Gulf of Akaba and its
entrance as international waterways is
welcome. It’s the first positive step U.S.
has taken against the wishes of Nasser
since its refusal of finance for the Aswan
Dam precipitated his seizure of the Suez
Canal.
• •
Looks like Indonesia is becoming
Javanesia.
• •
The big Queensland oil game still goes
on, with Gair using his Formosa plan
for all it’s worth and the oil companies
talking costs and injunctions. As in all
such squabbles compromise will prob-
ably win, but if it doesn’t and if the
Gair-Josephson partnership succeeds in
getting permanent supplies of oil at the
rate Gair is insisting on, two very inter-
esting things will have been proved.
One will be that motorists in all States
have been paying too much for their
petrol ; the other that the international
oil cartel which Dr. Evatt talks about is
not the all-powerful body he thinks it is.
• •
Even before the tremors of the
Aleutians earthquake have faded away
the wise ones will be saying it wasn’t an
earthquake at all but Britain’s hydrogen-
bomb.
• •
Tom Playford hasn’t given up hopes
of a steel industry for South Australia,
he told the Commonwealth Grants Com-
mission in Adelaide last week. His Mines
Department is still testing the extent of
iron-ore deposits outside the B.H.P.
leases and hopes these may be big enough
to stir B.H.P. to action or, alternatively,
to encourage outside interests to try their
luck.
• •
The projected move for a Committee
of Privilege in the N. S. Wales Assembly
fizzled out when Deane (Liberal member
for Hawkesbury) retracted his allegations
against A. J. Bush and Sons. Deane said
he had made his statements conscienti-
ously believing them to be true, but that
Bush had since convinced him that
he had been misinformed. He quoted a
letter from Bush written after the two
had discussed the matter and which
stated that the writer was satisfied that
Deane had acted in good faith. In
retracting his statement Deane expressed
his regret for any distress it might have
caused.
In view of Deane’s retraction, Mallam,
Labor member for Dulwich Hill, didn’t
proceed with the privilege motion, so the
world will never know whether the rope
intended for Deane would have landed
round Cahill’s neck, too (or instead).
• ' •
At 75, De Valera is back again as
Prime Minister of Eire, with a majority
of nine over all other parties. One of his
first jobs will be to curb the terrorist
activities of I.R.A. extremists who fancy
they are more representative of true Irish
opinion than the elected Government —
as he himself did in the early years of
the Irish Free State.
• •
N.S.W. branch of the A.R.U. views
“with fear and disappointment” the
interim Ebasco report and intends to have
it discussed by the Trades and Labor
Council and the June conference of the
Labor party. This news is very interest-
ing when considered in conjunction with
two letters written to Sydney “Herald” by
former officers of the N.S.W. Govern-
ment Railways claiming that a few years
ago they suggested economies similar to
those now proposed by Ebasco and that
their suggestions were approved by the
Commissioner but turned down by the
Government.
• •
Britain and France are reported to be
in complete agreement over Suez policy,
though they haven’t disclosed what their
intentions are. Nasser is insisting on full
payment to Egypt of all canal dues, and
has rejected the Canal Users’ Associa-
tion’s proposal that half the dues should
be paid provisionally to the International
Bank pending final agreement on control
of the canal. The Egyptian dictator
thinks he holds all the cards, but does
he? The shipping of the Western Powers
has been using the Cape route for four
months already and —at a cost —can con-
tinue to use it. In the long-run, Europe
needs the canal, but in the short-run
Nasser may find he needs the custom of
the Western Powers more than they need
the big ditch.
• ' •
Morgan, M.H.R. for Reid, is the
latest Labor man due for a “please
explain.” A few months ago the charter
“Dear Mr. Menzies—Being worried sick about the bousing situation
of the people who have to live in the suburbs, Bill and me offer you
the following advice...”
of the Merrylands branch of the A.L.P.
was withdrawn through alleged disrup-
tive tactics, and last week a meeting was
summoned to form a new branch. At
the meeting Morgan clashed with the
chairman over the manner in which the •
meeting had been called, and, after argu-'
ment, the chairman closed the meeting.
Now it seems that Morgan is to be
charged with “disruptive tactics.”
• •
“M.W.”: When the idea of holding
the Seato conference in Parliament
House was first mooted it was approved
with enthusiasm by officials and others
who have since had regrets. Security
precautions proved fairly rigid, with
a few “soft” spots; among others
denied admittance were the secretary of
the P.M.’s department, Sir Allen Brown,
the Secretary to the Treasury, Sir Roland
Wilson, and the Clerk of the House of
Representatives, Mr. A. Tregear. All
were admitted, of course, when they had
been identified, but they had been
rightly excluded while the Army guards
did the necessary checking. More humble
users of .the facilities of the House had
mostly secured their passes in advance
and had no trouble. Mr. Tregear, who
was also denied his usual parking-spot
for his car, was indignant and looked up
a lot of precedents about what happened
to persons- who obstructed the servants
of Mr. Speaker in the execution of their
duties. In the meantime the security
people were not made any happier by
the-issue of passes to two representatives
of the Communist paper “Tribune,” who
were allowed in because all papers can
claim the right to enter the press-gallery,
and because the Communist party is still
a legal organisation. The fact that the
delegations were armed to the teeth with
material relating to Communist military
and subversive activities in South-east
Asia could thus have no bearing on the
decision.
• •
As part of its policy of opposition to
strong drink the S.A. Methodist Con-
ference is objecting to the use of land
for planting wine-grapes. As South Aus-
tralia produces about 80 per cent, of
Australia’s wine the pastors are certainly
sticking their necks out. But why stop at
grapes? S.A. has a lot of land under
malting barley, used in the production
of that horrible stuff, beer. And the S.A.
potato crop could make quite a lot of
potheen if the excisemen looked the other
way.
• •
By-elections in Britain continue to go
against the Government —in the latest the
Conservative majorities were greatly
reduced in Eden’s old seat, Leamington,
and in Bristol. There’s nothing surpris-
ing about this. Britons are still feeling
the pinch as a result of Suez, and their
best way of showing it is by voting
•
against the Government or staying away
from the polls. They’ve been doing both.
But Opposition crowing would be very
premature. Parliament has over three
years to run.
• •
After good-humoredly rebuffing ques-
tions on what he was to discuss with
Dulles, the Prime Minister was asked at
his press conference last Thursday if the
reporters could give him some ideas for
the discussions. “I doubt it,” he
responded crisply. Later he said he felt
a more realistic view was establishing
itself about the Middle East. “What
does ‘realistic’ mean?” he was asked. “A
realistic view is one that doesn’t give
Colonel Nasser all the advantages of
victory,” he replied. “I would regard that
as obvious, but it is now almost a U.N.
heresy.” He predicted that the conversa-
tion with Dulles would be “intelligent,”
as between “two intelligent men,” and
added that it wouldn’t be “conducted on
the footpath.” Menzies also repeated his
belief that the first matter for Middle
East settlement was acceptance of the
view that the Suez Canal should be a free
international waterway, without
discrimination or politics, and that the
second was permanent settlement of the
peace for Israel and of the Israeli
frontiers. “Unless each of these things is
attained,” he added, “it will turn out that
the whole intervention of U.N. has been
a lamentable failure.”
• •
“Mugga Way”: It’s an old depart-
mental habit to claim that expanding
revenues justify more staff. Customs is
the latest to use the idea ; its Minister,
Senator Henty, remarked the other day
that the cost of collecting today’s annual
revenues of around £290 million was 1.57
per cent, of that sum, whereas in 1910,
when the revenue was £12| million, the
cost was 1.9 per cent. The Minister did
admit that staff was being increased, but
he claimed that rising revenue was not
entirely due to higher rates.
• •
Those small Australians who are enjoy-
ing life in Malaya, the 300-odd children
of the servicemen stationed there, are to
be protected against polio. Salk-vaccine
from the Melbourne labs, is being flown
to Singapore for distribution. It may
provide an interesting contrast in effec-
tiveness with the British vaccine, which
is being given to the children of British
servicemen and civilians in Malaya.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
A EUROPEAN gentleman of elevated
position in the tropics returned
early from his important duties to find
another gentleman entertaining his wife
more thoroughly than social usage
requires. The boy-friend fled with his
trousers over his arm. The husband,
seizing a revolver in passing, pursued.
Round and round the dignified residence
fled the boy-friend ; round and round
relentlessly pursued the husband. Each
time they passed the front porch (where
reclined a gilt morocco-bound visitors’
book with an air of great splendor) two
immaculately-uniformed Sikh guards
bearing arms came smartly to attention
and saluted, while, in the impressive
entrance-hall, an inscrutable Chinese ser-
vant stood with a whisky-and-soda upon
a silver salver calmly awaiting the return
of a thirsty victor. Here was co-operation
and understanding of a high order. —
“Con Fusus.”
♦♦♦ +>
“Boj”: “Weight for weight, the Austra-
lian small egg is as good as any
world.” This gnomic utterance has been
bewildering the public for some weeks.
The phrase has limitless possibilities.
“Speed for speed,” let the Railways pro-
claim, “our Australian trains are as fast
as any in the world.” Also: “Tripe for
tripe . . .”
“Moorapi”: Perspiring audiences at
Melbourne Princess on hot February
nights, gazing upon an Old Bailey court-
scene in Agatha Christie’s thriller “Wit-
ness for the Prosecution,” didn’t realise
how different it could appear from back-
stage. One of the English actors, immacu-
late in wig and gown but allergic to Aus-
tralian heat, presented a rear spectacle of
shorts and bare legs, and feet paddling
happily in a bucket of cool water. Some
say he got the hint from the High Court,
but there seems no way of proving it.
* ❖ ❖
“North Esk”: State Ministers, as
openers of functions and institutions,
don’t always find it easy to strike a new
line, but Tasmania’s Minister for Health
Turnbull startled the mob at the opening
of a swimming-pool at Branxholm .by
throwing off his sports-clothes and diving
in to swim the length of the pool. The
Doc. had come prepared, with swimming-
shorts underneath. The warden of the
municipality, enjoying the spectacle,
found himself unexpectedly sharing the
applause when a couple of spectators in
old clothes tumbled him into the pool at
the shallow end. He had not come pre-
pared, and had to go to a near-by
residence for dry clothes in which to con-
tinue his duties of the afternoon.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Xavier”: . When the football-season
■begins a few weeks hence we can expect
more Melbourne newspaper-headlines in
such vein as “Tiger to Wed,” “Bulldog in
Hospital,” “Demons Vanquish Magpies”
and the like. Which help one to believe in
Evolution —at least to the extent that we
are evolving backwards.
“Narumee”: Film blurb: “She was a
woman fit for only one man —the Devil
himself!” She’d be a devilled chicken,
then, I suppose.
“Biridja”: Let’s get it straight—l found
two chemists discussing it —it’s not
“stibestrol” (B. 13/2/’57) nor “stilbestrol”
(B. 20/2/’57) but “stilboestrol,” the oe
being a dipthong. That all may under-
stand I suggest that we note that
stilboestrol is:— 3:4 di-p-hydrophenyl-
-3 hexene, and is prepared by the
demethylation of 3:4 di-p-methoxyphenyl
-3 hexene, which is obtained from
deoxyanisoin by ethylation, conversion of
the mono-ethyl-derivative into the related
diethylcarbinol by means of ethyl
magnesium iodide and acidification, and
finally by dehydration of the alcohol.
Thus once again we see that apparently-
difficult terms are capable of the simplest
of explanations.
“Postie”: An Australian mail-order
firm will let you have a cocktail-cabinet
for a 14-day trial. And who wouldn’t
take it on if they’d stock it?
•Ist
“Doynest”: When your car is returned
after repairs, look it over closely. Some
days after his car had been overhauled, a
motorist friend noticed that light tyres
had been substituted for the heavy-duty,
eight-ply set that had been on it when it
went to the garage. The garage-
"Sure 'n' I d like to be lakin ye home, but I live at the Y.M.C.A."
proprietor challenged the owner to prove
his claim, going so far as to assert that
the swop-over could have been made by
the owner after he got his car back.
❖ ❖ *X+
“Nunk”: The trouble one of the
Davey quizzes is having over two dic-
tionary-versions of “bi-weekly” reminds
me of long ago, when 2BL was a com-
mercial station, and they gave me the job
of putting a grammatical error into a
nightly advertisement. Which I did—
but you’d hardly believe how many more
grammatical errors the listeners found
in those few sentences. All right, they
said, vet the ad. so there’s only one
grammatical error. It was beyond me;
I gave it away and so did they. But I
gained from it a copy of Nesfield from
“Either of you girls got a safety-pin ?”
which I still deal-out the grammar to my
offspring, and an ability to sympathise
with the woman who is expected to keep
Mr. Davey better informed than his
customers.
*Z* ♦> ♦>
“V.I.P. (Failed)”: Declaimers here
against rich men who keep on winning
large lottery-prizes forget that lottery-
wins are untaxable. A single man foolish
enough to try to clear £lO,OOO-a-year from
the tax-boys must first make £22,441 —
i.e., £12,441 is tax. So that a £12,000-
lottery would still leave him £441 short
of his gross income. Even winning a
£6OOO-lottery would be a help ; you could
whoop things up a good deal more on
£16,000 than on £lO,OOO, or maybe
reduce the ulcers which would certainly
bite into my belly, if I were rich, at the
thought of all that hard-earned dough
going to Artie.
♦+♦ ❖ ❖
“Roona”: Our very modest women’s
association president had to report to the
meeting that on interviewing the husband
of the'woman considered a distress-case
and in need of help she was amazed at
the number of children in and around the
small shack. She had carried out a
hurried bangtail-muster, but lost count at
the tenth, she thought. At her comment,
the husband said sourly, “Aw, you town
people are lucky. You’ve got the
pictures.”
♦♦♦
“Nimrod”: My wife tells me that the
first of our offspring required half-a-
bottle of gripewater; the second needed
only quarter-of-a-bottle, while the third
was reared entirely without it. Such is
the burden of high place that newspapers
report the arrival of the first shipment for
the heiress of Monaco.
❖ ❖ ♦
“Fell Maken”: One of my hopefuls
is the owner of a 1923 Rolls, the apple of
his eye, and much inspected by Kibitzers.
On holidays at a South Coast (N.S.W.)
town three of the town elders who had
been visiting the pub walked round and
round the Silver Ghost. One of them
said, “So help me Bob, I haven’t seen
one for years and years.” One of his
cobbers replied, “And I one,
either. It’s a Model T, isn’t it?”
’J 4
“Sparks”: There's something creepy
about the physiotherapy-department of
a hospital. When a dose of facial
paralysis sent me there daily, for treat-
ment by Miss M, my appearance was
greeted with: “Miss M, your Face is
waiting,” or “Miss S, will you put Miss
M’s face under the heat?” And I would
be led to where Legs, Feet, Shoulders,
Arms and Hands were patiently gathered
around ray-lamps. Often there would be
a cry*: “Miss J, there’s a new Leg out-
side!” When a doctor did the rounds,
the head physio, introduced us with:
“Oh, Doctor, there’s an interesting Face
here.” The doctor after a carefulinspec-
tioh replied: “By Jove, it’s a beauty, isn’t
it!” and walked away. I’ve had an un-
easy, disembodied feeling ever since.
❖
“Metax”: As I wrote a letter resigning
membership of an institution after many
years because the fees had grown beyond
my means, I felt a few stabs of memory.
But the worst came last when I licked the
flap of the free, addressed envelope. The
gum was sweetened!
“N. 8.”: When the tram-crew changed
at the depot, the majestic and distin-
guished-looking middle-aged foreign con-
ductor walked-off towards the office. In
his path one troub. with mock humility
touched the peak of his cap, one saluted
smartly, and another bowed low. Hans
duly acknowledged each tribute with a
gracious inclination of the head.
♦> ♦> ♦>
“Cash Count”: Surprised to see that
the insignia on the U.S. Air Force’s
Antarctic Globemaster which called at
Melbourne is a kangaroo —a pretty
belligerent specimen, too. Kanga wears
boxing-gloves on her forepaws, and
sprouting from her pouch she displays a
rifle and bayonet and a Sten-gun. Any-
body know why? '
* ♦> ❖
“Teum”: May have the kids taught
music now that British scientists have
produced a piece of equipment which
makes it theoretically possible to play a
piano from a distance of half-a-mile.
With the keyboard in the frSm room,
and the noise that far away, scales should
be almost tolerable.
<!&• <s* &
“Keem”: A friend of mine had a
battered case of sheet-music knocked
down to him at an auction-sale for ss.
Under the music he found a complete
set of exquisitely hand-carved ivory-
chessmen; Chinese. He sold them easily
for £6O.
DUET
“Ihe Chancellor of Sydney University, Sir
Charles Bickerton Blackburn, warned 3500 new
students not to let love interfere with their
studies, while the headmistress of the
Presbyterian Ladies’ College, Pymb’le, Miss
Dorothy Knox, speaking in a symposium,
advised students to ‘have as much fun as
possible’ during their University career.”
Sir Charles :
y oung persons, you’ve no masters now
To round you up and tell you how,
So when your studies have begun —
Miss Knox:
Nothing can stop-you having fun!
Sir Charles :
Some fail to subdivide, l fear,
Their time between their subjects here:
Map-out the field, that’s my advice —
Miss Knox:
And never kiss the same one twice.
Sir Charles :
Some boys and girls have never tried
Attending lectures side-by-side:
Alas, young man! Alas, young miss! —
Miss Knox:
You’ve never had a chance like this!
Sir Charles :
Be you from Sydney or Sumatra,
No Anthony-and-Cleopatr a! '
No blighted lives! No false romance! —
Miss Knox :
Just think, young ladies — now's your
chance!
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


T_rE who handled his 12-footer with
all the pride and skill of one
who took his first tiller in hand before he
was out of diapers invited his first-love
to go sailing. Correctly sweatered and
shorted, she stepped daintily into the
boat, and they went away before a fairish
wind. They weren’t a hundred yards out
before her shriek was carried back to the
onlookers on the jetty: “Oh, turn round,
Harry—you’ve forgotten the oars!”
Which is why he is now just another
misogynist.—“Narumee.”
“Quo Vadis”: Apropos garlic (B.
20/2/’57). The better-half was in the
hospital maternity-section, and warm-
hearted Mrs. Italiano, wife of a success-
ful market-gardener, was leaving after a
13th occasion. “She is bringing me a
surprise,” the missus said. Mrs. ltie
turned-up later with an enormous
bouquet of freshly-dug garlic. It seemed
to me that she beamed hopefully as she
said: “Ees verree stir-rong. Full of fer-
teel-ee-tee.” So perhaps “Sister Ellell’s”
citrus-trees couldn't take it! N.B. I
dumped the garlic.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Phillida”: It’s common knowledge
that as prices rise goods get smaller,
or shorter, or of poorer quality. Servings
in restaurants shrink. Fish-’n’-chips now
contain fins and bones as well, disguised
by the batter. Many cakes of soap are
perfumed only skin-deep. I can’t find a
brand of tea that hasn’t deteriorated
steadily with each price-rise; one has
to use almost twice the quantity to get a
decent brew.
❖ ❖
“Emtee”: It was the lunch-hour, hot
and humid. A loaded brewery-lorry took
a busy Hobart corner rather too sharply,
and lost a case of ale. As the contents
cascaded into the gutter, driver and
assistant stood and surveyed the mess,
almost crying. The thirsty crowd that
quickly gathered felt the same way. All,
that is, except a passing Salvation Army
officer and a Baptist minister, who were
uncharitable enough to have broad smiles
on their faces.
*l*' ♦♦♦
“Kim”: “Robbie’s” prize of an
unstringable racquet (B. 9/1/’57) could
Well have gone to the Melbourne radio-
announcer who, in a tennis-commentary,
said, “Sedgman defeated the American
with absolute, comparative ease.”
* ❖ ❖
“Ranji”: I hope we don’t follow
America’s lead in trying to make Father’s
Day an official national day. Over there
things have got a bit out of hand. As
well as Mother’s and Father’s Day, they
have Son’s Day, Daughter’s Day, and
even Expectant Father’s Day (June 16).
They also have National Smile Week,
Peanut Week, Large Size (what?) Week
and Want-ad. Week. Congressmen have
asked for Grandma’s Day, Teacher’s Day
and Constitution Day, while Mississippi
wants May 26 as Hillbilly-music Day.
hJ*
“Bo”: The sleek two-toner purred in
to the vacant kerbside-possie to make the
third line of traffic waiting to get off the
leash as soon as the cop at the
intersection swung broadside-on.
Before the traffic the other way
had ceased flowing Two-tone
decided to sneak round to the
left, but just as he started to move
off the cop looked round and
sighted him. Thunder descended
on his brow. With imperious
gesture he ordered the offending
driver in to the kerb, then walked
majestically across, leaving the
traffic to snarl itself up. Drivers
drawn up near the victim
awaited the blast. Then the sun
burst through: , “G’ blimey, it’s
you, Vic —you ought to know
better than do a thing, like
that. How’re tricks?” The piled-up
were so overcome with emotion
half of ’em stalled in the getaway.
❖ ❖
“Dfico”: Australians who have
been in England know that after
having no more than a cup of tea
Or a bun at a cafe they must leave
Id. or 2d. under the plate for the
waitress. It is typically English
that when they eliminate the
service they stick to its traditions:
at a cafeteria, when I was paying
for my tray, I found a slotted box
beside the cashier marked “Service
Box.”
“Doric”: Somfe typical remarks by
well-meaning visitors to a sick relative of
mine: “My aunt Maude had your com-
plaint—she died in agony, poor thing” ;
“Mr. Jones had it —he had to have an
awful operation.” One woman visited the
patient, who was supposed to be kept
quiet, and talked for three hours, mostly
about her own ailments ; another brought
some grapes and ate most of them her-
self.
❖ ❖
“Biridja”: It’s all right to tell of the
handcuffed driver (B. 6/2/’57) and the
bridegroom shackled to a ball-and-chain
(B. 20/2/’57), for both escaped ; but my
friend was given too much on the eve
of his wedding and awakened to find
some of his teeth missing. This meant
a trip of twenty-miles, search in a garden
for the lost denture and a late arrival of
the ’groom at the church. But the in-
cident took some of the deadness out of
the breakfast-speeches.
❖ +** **♦
“C.J.”: If “Deejaitch” wants to extend
his New-Australianisation project for our
language (B. .20/2/’57) he should add
coffee-studies to his ice-cream (gelat)
course. For the forcing of steam through
coffee-grounds, espresso is plainly
expressive; but Capucino is tricky.
Many of the blokes pulling down the
chrome handles, even, wouldn’t know
“You MUST have picked up the Wrong hat!”
that the addition of milk to espresso
created a color unlike any previous coffee-
color, but most like that of the habits of
Capucine monks in the streets of Rome
—hence, Capucino.
♦Jt +X + ♦!*
“Ranji”: As a postie I weary after
about two months of delivering mail to
the front-door of newly-erected homes.
But my first request to “Please erect
“ Nightcap, Captain?”
letter-box” goes unheeded. Likewise the
second, though this time it’s "Please!”
But the third, accompanied by a threat
to discontinue mail-delivery, does the
trick. Out comes the letter-box —on to
the front-porch, and about a yard from
the front-door!
“Fairf”: W. E. Fitz Henry’s Australian
Authors' and Artists’ Handbook (men-
tioned “Personal Items,” B. 13/2/’57) was
my literary textbook until I lent it to
another aspiring writer and never saw it
again. Ten or twelve years later, meeting
the author for the first time, I with self-
conscious fatuity asked did he recall
having written that extremely helpful
little book. “I’ve often thought,” he
answered with a quiet little grin, “that if
I’d followed that advice more closely I’d
be a better writer today.”
❖ ♦> ❖
“Mulloway”: The round ebony ruler
(B. 20/2/’57) on my table is not a family
heirloom ; it was one of many treasures
washed up by the sea with a lot of drift-
wood, reef-rakings and three plates of
artificial teeth, after a very heavy swell
at low king-tide. Perhaps some young
pusser had got fed-up with that wobbly
lump of wood and lost it overboard. The
old ruler, covered with young goose-
barnacles, cleaned up quite well, and it
serves many useful purposes, including
the donging of a rat that was getting
away with a woollen tea-cosy.
♦J«
“Robbie”: Clubs in our city are in-
stalling one-arm bandits. Mine chose a
two-bob touch for the men, a sixpenny
for the women. Asked why, I told the
little woman, “Women are more thrifty
than men.” She went off in a huff, mur-
muring, “Can’t trust women with money,
I suppose.” You can’t win.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Teacher’s Pet”: A visiting psycholo-
gist told a class of thirteen-year-old boys
that practically all boys of that age hate
their mothers. He told them not to worry
because it was a passing phase. What’s
he trying to do—‘drum up trade?
♦♦♦ 1 *
“D.S.R.”: A theatrical producer in
Brisbane lately wanted 24 dozen eggs,
the players having to get outside 10 fried
eggs at each performance during a
breakfast-scene in Act I. Reminds me of
a shipboard scene in a play I saw years
ago, where four of the cast sat around
chatting and drinking beer. At first the
dinkum stuff was used, but later they sub-
stituted lolly-water to save cost, much to
the disgust of the hard-drinking leading
man. One evening he could stand it no
longer, and when one of the cast had
finished his line, “Isn’t the sea flat today S ”
he bellowed out, “But not as flat as this
bloody beer! ” and, tossing the glass down,
strode off. The real McCoy was used
after that.
* ❖ *
“Doric”: The kid-next-door was
having a birthday, and I heard him
soliciting a passing lad: “Will you come
to my party this arvo?” “I’ll have to
ask Mum—wait on!” said the invitee;
and a few minutes later was back:
“Mum said I haven’t got an invitation.”
“Well, here’s one,” said the k.-n.-d., pro-
ducing one from his pocket. Another
trip home for the passer-by, and he was
back “Mum says I can’t go ’cause
I haven’t got a present for you.” “Oh,
that’s all right,” said the prospective
host; “you can come for nothin’.”
❖ ❖ +>
“N. 8.”: Spught the publication-date
of the aged &nd yellowing “Temperance
Reciter,” but the pages gave no hint to the
year. The only clues were “The Wind-
sor Magazine,” advertised at 6d. monthly
with contributors Conan Doyle, Rider
Haggard, Kipling and Vachell, and an
ad. by Ward Lock & Co.: “Gift Books
Prizes and Rewards Foolscap BVO, cloth
gilt Is. Net, leather 2s. Net with
artistic end-papers and decorative title
pages.”
❖ ❖ *t*
“Kenyas”: Names can be singularly
inappropriate. The Welsh-sounding one
of Vaughan Williams belongs to the
foremost English composer, while
Christmas Humphreys is Britain’s leading
Buddhist. I recall the surnames of
four old schoolmates: Black, who was
platinumly-blonde; Strong, who was
anything but; Green, who was as shrewd
as they come ; and Bastard, who
definitely wasn’t.
A PRIZE FOR THE PICKING
“Unencumbered, m.a. widow, vivacious, nkes
cards, party-life, would meet gent, same tastes,
not short.”— View mat. ad.
In double-harness she would run
Once more, despite its stress and sttife.
Her widowhood shed jettison
Right gladly, to become a wife.
She finds a manless prospect grim.
Cats as companions have their place,
But she prefers a trousered “him
So, to ensnare some Jack or Jim
She hits the advertising space.
She has no yen to stick at home
At night and bash the ironing-board ;
To placidly peruse a tome,
Or darn some Joe Rocks for her lord.
She wants to give the broads a go,
Try for a grand-slam, flush, mis ere ;
Or steam around and shake a toe,
Make whoopee and get up a glow.
She simply loves the glare and blare.
For him whom altarwards she'd lead,
Specifications aren’t too tight;
He could be quite a seedy weed
Or 18-stone, full-barrelled fright;
Ginger or black, of homely phiz.,
Or one with looks like Gregory Peck.
She’s not particular what he is,
Except this stipulation, viz. •'
His stern be not too near the deck!
Sawn-offs are out! She hates to gaze
Downwards to view her hubby’s pate;
A long bloke with a party-craze —
that’s her ideal of a mate.
Ah, well, success attend her quest,
And may she, too, enjoy the sport. ,
But this I’ll venture to suggest:
He who by her will be possessed,
Unless he has lots of the best,
Though he be tall, will soon be short.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
“5 G.R.”: The death of Bill Dunstan
in Melbourne removes the last of four
who won their V.C.s in a 50yd.-trench at
Lone Pine on the same day. Symonds
died in England, Tubb was killed in
France, Burton died of wounds, and Bill
Dunstan, with fragments of bomb in his
brain, rose to be general-manager of
The Herald and Weekly Times Co. and
later a director of that and other com-
panies. A grand man to have known, he
was my boss for 22 years. Painstaking
and calm, with uncanny foresight, Bill
Dunstan had to be tough at times, as his
responsibilities grew, but few knew his
secret. He often went for weeks without
enjoying one full and sufficient night’s
sleep. Those bomb-fragments were a
constant torture,
• ©
“D.”: I went to the service at Christ
Church, South Yarra, for Bill Dunstan,
whose V. C. has seemed to me among the
most worthy on record —the tenacious,
persistent rebuilding of that sandbag-
barricade at Lone Pine with a few comrades,
almost all of whom were killed, against strong
bombing-parties whose bombs were thrown
back at them, and the final subjection of the
Turkish attackers. \
At least half the crowded church was
occupied by the marching troys of those years
—the newspapermen with whom he worked as
general-manager of the “Herald” filled most of
the rest —most of the 11 surviving Victorian
V.C.s were in the pews, and the service was
impressive, though Bishop McKie’s address, in
characteristic understatement, seemed reserved
to the old soldiers and. pedestrian to the
newspapermen.
Outside in the sunlight, before the full
military funeral, the old fellows looked erect
and indestructible, as Bill Dunstan had until a
few years ago when the effects of his wounds
accumulated in a heart-condition, aggravated by
overwork: a common malady of executives in
their fifties. He retired and was made a
“Herald” director in 1953 and was invited on
to the boards of half-a-dozen other companies.
He was a popular clubman —he had been
president, a highly-prized post, of the Navy and
Army Club —and liked racing. He died after
a pleasant day at the races. Probably men with
hearts shouldn’t bet on the races, but he
operated the world’s best system—a few modest
bets on the tote in the hope that he could go*
home with as much as he took out.
• •
A. Crookes-Hull, newly-installed presi-
dent of the Westralian Methodist Con-
ference, is a Belfast man who spent his
early working-years in the building-trade.
At one time he seriously considered
going into politics; instead, he filled
pulpits in Victoria and Tasmania before
he went to Westralia in 1949 as State
secretary of Methodist Overseas Missions.
• •
Benjamin Cochrane Doig, who joined
the N. S. Wales House as Liberal member
for Burwood per the by-election brought
about by the death of Dr. Parr, was first
encountered by a member of The
Bulletin staff in early post-War II years,
when J. B. Blair ran into him at quiz-
sessions: Ben Doig either holding the
coat of Mrs. Doig (an able answerer) or
himself performing. So present inter-
viewer of him was only mildly surprised
to learn that the new member collected
his Sydney University BA. some years
back with first-class honors in
Psychology.
The application of an academic train-
ing in psychology to the hurly-burly of
party politics has entertaining possibilities.
But, in fact, although Doig was the first
practising industrial-psychologist in Aus-
tralia, and before that put in some time
SYDNEY PARLIAMENTARIAN
at Sydney University demonstrating
under Profs. Lovell and Martin, he’s had
a good deal of commercial experience.
He had been with M.L.C. from 1932 until
very recently, with two significant breaks
—the war, and a term as secretary of the
Sane Democracy League (“where I
learned the rudiments of politics”).
A lance-sergeant at the outbreak of
war j 0 the militia earlier in 1939,
w j ien he judged war inevitable), he didn’t
get a guernsey, but finished as a lieut.-
colonel. He put in quite a bit of time
wd h a sound-ranging battery and train-
ing a cadre for this branch of artillery-
SU rvey (against possible need) at Holds-
worthv and for the last two years was
Controllor of Army Inspection (the chaps
wbo damped D D on everything
troops for the use of) in South Australia.
An Old Fortian, he represented Sydney
University in a King’s Medal shoot, and
has lively memories of one of his father’s
chief occupational difficulties—raiding
Chinese gambling-joints without the
customers being tipped-off in advance,
His father was a police-inspector,
c r J
Tall, dark, 52, definitely but not too
definitely cerebral, Ben Doig is an
authentic Sydney type.
• •
South Australia’s new Postal Director,
t- m-m dj j • • j o, j
”• I* (Bill) Edwards, joined the depart-
ment close on half-a-century ago at
Georgetown the North Queensland
S.A. MAILS
mining-town where he was born. A
telegraph-messenger, age 13|, he delivered
his messages mostly on horseback. Up
to 1944, when he went to Adelaide as
assistant-superintendent of the postal-
services branch, he’d been at 17 different
stations in northern and nor’-west
Queensland. In 1946 he became assistant-
director of postal and transport services.
• •
“A.C.T.”: Appointed to serve for a
second term as Australia’s representative
on the U.N. Status of Women Com-
mission, Ruth Gibson, of Adelaide, will
attend the 11th session of the commission
in New York in March. Miss Gibson
is an inspector of secondary Schools in
S.A.
• •
Harry Miller has been a personality in
Sydney boxing so long one is inclined to
think of him as —well, middle-aged. He’s
43, which is only three years more than
Tod Morgan’s age when he fought
Patrick, Bob Fitzsimmons’s when he won
the light-heavyweight championship of
the world; and it’s comparative
adolescence in a match-maker. In at
The Bulletin, breathing cigar-smoke
and exuding vitality, he certainly didn’t
look a day older. Something about the
set of his jaw, his eye, a sort of jolly
pugnacity, suggested he’d gone a round
or two himself, some time. “No,” he said.
He’d entered the fight-game via, of all
places, a solicitor’s office. Hugh D.
Mclntosh’s solicitors. Went to the
stadium in the early depression, became
part of the place, then, when Stadiums,
Ltd., took-over, be-
came manager at
the age of 24.
“You don’t look on it
as a job,” he said. “It’s
a life. Phone starts at
eight in the morning,
you’re dealing with
matches, weights,
people, all day, at meals
even. It’s a life.” He
used to play golf, now
does a fair bit of
yachting—trips as far as
Brisbane. The fight-
business was booming
now. Big crowds.
Wrestling, too. Last
year was the best ever
for wrestling. Fight-
crowds varied in Mel-
bourne and Sydney. In
Melbourne they liked
to see a local against an
importation, i In Sydney
they didn’t gave a hoot,
so long as itfyas a good
fight.
Asked his pick of
boxers he had seen, he
nominated Young
Stribling, Nel Tarleton,
Maxie Rosenb'loom, Ron
Richards, Vic Patrick,
Freddy Dawson, Jack
Hassen. To the inevit-
able “What about?” . . .
he wagged a firm cigar.
Yes, he knew he’d left
out some notable
names ; no, he wouldn’t
care to defend his
choice in detail.
“They’re just the fighters
who impressed me—for
one reason and
another.”
With experience you
could sum-up a fighter
—important in match-
making. It wasn’t
always necessary to see
him fight, see him in the
gym. even. Just the
look of a man, the way
he moved . . . Then the
golden ones, the ones
with a knock-out punch ;
no matter how a fight
was going, a man with a knock-out punch had
a chance to win—that was what drew the
crowds. Impossible to say what gave a man
this ability: he had it, or he didn’t have it.
Question: Did they come in any particular
shape? No, that was it; some looked almost
frail. Although, oddly enough, the build of
a fighter you’d think would have it —wide,
blocky—generally didn’t.
Old-timers? Silly to make comparisons. Each
champion belonged in his period. Generally,
the game had been speeded-up—as had all
games. A lot of nonsense was talked —for
instance, about Griffo. How he used to stand
on a handkerchief defying efforts to hit him.
Well, how did he get his broken nose and
cauliflower-ear? Similarly, he was always meet-
ing men who had been taken to the Johnson-
Burns fight by their Dads. Rushcutter’s held
26,000 that night; and of these, 22,000 must
have been schoolboys. Again, in America at
one time every Greek cafe-proprietor came front
the same village as Jim Londos, the champion
wrestler. A big village.
He grinned tolerantly. The game bred
legends. It had color, and the people in it —
fighters, trainers, followers —were mostly
interesting. “The fight-game is full of
characters.” Pause. “I suppose a lot of people
would call me a character.”
• •
Peripatetic Melbourne and Sydney
clubman W. Sydney Jones will retire
this month as general-manager of the
Trustees Executors and Agency Co., Ltd.,
but will remain a director of both Vic-
torian and N.S.W. boards. Syd. Jones,
who knows, his friends claim, just on
everybody in both cities, was Sydney-
born, but will keep his home in Toorak.
“If I left, what would my Melbourne
friends say?” he says. “And if I went back
to Sydney to live, what would my Sydney
friends say about having left?” Last
war he was one of the business advisers
to the Defence Department, and in the
prelude to it he was commissioned in
France. He was a grade tennis-player in
Sydney, but these days he likes golf and
gardening better, and, better still, holidays
at Palm Beach.
• ®
Professor Sewell Bray, one of the
world’s foremost accountants and writers
on his profession, is currently in circula-
tion in Melbourne and Sydney at
luncheons and cocktail-parties in his
honor, and closeted with professorial
cobbers at the universities, although he
announced when he arrived that he’d
come to earn a crust.
His popularity is due not merely to his
eminence in his profession —he’s good
company. He was here in 1948-49, by
invitation, to lecture, and felt he did not
see enough of his offices in Sydney and
Melbourne. He is the boss of the London
office of Tansley Witt and Co., Stamp
Martin Professor of Accounting at
Incorporated Accountants Hall, London,
and was senior Nuffield research Fellow
in applied economics at Cambridge for a
term.
He’s an advocate of social accounting,
a more dynamic approach to accountancy
than the standard method. An over-
simplified explanation of social account-
ing, perhaps, might be the valuation of
assets at their market-value rather than
at cost; but that cannot be taken as gilt-
edged. Even some of his colleagues say
they don’t quite get it.
STADIUM MANAGER
“Ybsul”; Two colorful test-pilots have
retired from sound-barrier exploration to
relax (they think) flying for Bobby
Gibbes, of Gibbes Sepik Airways. They
are Brian (“Blackjack”) Walker, who led
an Australian Beaufighter squadron in
New Guinea and since the war has been
De Havilland’s top test-pilot in Aus-
tralia, and Neville Duke, Battle-of-Britain
pilot and England’s ace sound-barrier
buster. They should find mountain-
hopping to their liking ; and the hazard-
ous nature of the work Gibbes is doing
in New Guinea calls for types like
Walker and Duke. Gibbes led Aus-
tralian 3 Fighter Squadron in the
Western Desert, picking-up a D. 5.0.,
D.F.C. and Bar. Whatever else happens,
the shop-talk up in the N.G. Highlands
soon should be worth listening to. And,
to keep the conversation moving, famous
both-war pilot and old New Guinea hand
Jerry Pentland is growing coffee at
Goroka.
• •
A sketch of New York’s Central Park
signed Kenneth Smart, N.F.S., caused
some curiosity at Melbourne’s Outdoor
Art Show. The artist is Lt.-General
Edward Kenneth Smart, recently home in
Melbourne after five years as Australian
Consul-General in New York. The
“N.F.S.” is not, of course, a military
decoration (he is entitled to write D. 5.0.,
M.C.), but indicates the artist’s modest
opinion that nobody would want to buy
the painting.
• •
New W.A. Opposition-leader David
Brand (B. 6/ 3 / ’57) was born in the
Greenough district, where his father and
grandfather had been farmers, and which
he represented when he was elected to the
Assembly in 1945. Before tlfet he had
worked on the goldfields (becoming a
surface-boss); he was wounded in Greece
in War 11, and between demobbing and
election had a small mixed-business at
Dongarra (where the crayfish grow). His
maternal grandfather, Sam Mitchell,
managed a lead-mine at Northampton
and represented the Murchison in the
Assembly in 1897. As Minister for Works
in the last McLarty Government, David
Brand had much to do with the establish-
ment of the oil-refinery at Kwinana.
Interests outside politics include the Boy
Scout movement and tennis.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Virginia (Q.), at 77, J. W. Bleakley,
Queensland Protector of Aborigines from 1914
to 1942. He encouraged, among others, fast-
bowler Eddie Gilbert and boxers Jerry Jerome
and Ron Richards.
In Perth, at 67, Arnold Yeldham Raine. He
started his working life on a Broome pearler,
eventually owned his own lugger, then farmed
for years, and later ran hotels in Perth.
In New York, at 73, Evarts A. Graham, the
first surgeon to successfully remove the entire
lung in treatment of lung-cancer. In 1953, with
two associates, he claimed “positive evidence”
that cancer could be produced by tar in
cigarette-smoke. Dr. Graham smoked
cigarettes moderately until six years ago, when
he gave them up. He died of lung-cancer.




ABIRIGINALITIES
annual spearfishermen versus
A anglers championship at Toowoon
Bay (N.S.W.) resulted this year in an
overwhelming win for the skewerers;
surprisingly, it was their first win in four
years. Views expressed by a veteran
spearfisherman could have been an
accurate summing-up of the contest:
“When the water’s clear the spears will
always? win ; when it’s clouded with algae
or plankton the anglers have their day.”
Although the 25 spearfishermen tallied
4561 b. of edible fish among them, their
biggest fish, a 441 b. jewie, was beaten
easily by the line-men’s 66-pounder.
“8.A.K.”
* * * *
“Tryney”: This appeared in a northern
N.S.W. town’s schedule for a rodeo and
sports-carnival:
Bullock-ride free-for-all, sponsored by
the town’s doctors.
* * * *
“Jas.”: Medium-sized, dull-red in
color with dark bands round the body,
the paper-wasp is one of the less striking
of the breed, but its ways are worth
watching. For two months of its nest-
building the lone architect worked in-
cessantly. Then, as if worn-out with
toil, it lay for a fortnight in a kind of
coma on the roof of its building. Starting
work again, it was in time joined by
several more wasps. Whether these were
young, hatched from the cells already
constructed, or strays which, seeing a
job in progress, hopped in to help, I
cannot say, but suspect the former. The
number of workers round the nest kept
increasing, though there were always a
few lounging <?n the roof in a drowsy
condition. The workers apparently didn’t
believe in loafing, and sometimes gave
the sluggards a rough handling to wake
them up. The nest, constructed of a
grey paperlike material, is now quite a
size, with maybe 50 wasps in attendance.
* * * *
“Bilwon”: “Whiskers” Smith had a
pest in his mushrooms, and the Agricul-
tural bloke advised spraying with E 605.
Some days later “Whiskers” went to the
Agricultural bloke’s office. “Damned
mushrooms died,” he growled. “Sprayed
them with 606 like you said, but it did no
good.”
* * * *
“Woorarra”: The only brush-tongued
parrot that is a resident of my district
(central N.S.W. coast) is the giant and
beauty of the family, the rainbow-lori-
keet. However, every year, in summer
months, hundreds of various other
lorikeets pass through on nomadic flights
in search of eucalypt-blossoms, pausing
for a day or two to sample the local
nectar. Two years ago, after the nomads
.had passed through, I noticed a musk-
lorikeet —a stumpy green bird with some
red round the head and upper neck —
associating with a pair of rainbows that
spent a lot of time in my garden. The
trio were inseparable throughout the
winter, but when spring called the musk
departed. Last year, after the nomadic
flights had ceased, I was astounded to see
a musk again associating with the
garden rainbows. I assume it was the
bird' of the previous year.
* * * *
“Miss M.”: Big Jock was famous for
his pulverising handshake, with which he
liked to surprise strangers, and which
friends dodged. Revisiting the district
after a long absence, I asked my sister,
“How’s Jock? Still mangling people’s
hands?” With complete seriousness—
and truth —she replied: “No. He had
a big toe amputated, and his handshake
hasn’t been the same since.”
* * * *
“J. 8.”: Asked a Cottesloe (W.A.)
butcher for a bob’s-worth of cat’s-meat,
and was offered the choice of three:
whale, rabbit, and kangaroo.
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: Don’t know that fish called
a “Chinaman” (B. 16/1 /’57), but N.S.W.
lifesavers and surfboatmen apply the
sobriquet to a particular kind of wave,
and it’s no term of endearment. When
the oarsmen are breaking their backs to
get the boat out through the breakers to
the comparatively calm water beyond,
"Hey! It’s ondy two-thirty!"
a mighty boomer sometimes catches the
craft, almost stands it on end, then sweeps
it back towards the beach. This causes
the sweepman’s stern-oar to become
jammed deep down in the sand beneath
the churning water ; the boat, unable to
go back any farther, pivots crazily on the
axis of the dug-in sweep, and suddenly
there is a mad medley of capsizing boat,
flying oars and men diving desperately
to dodge hurtling oar and down-plunging,
“According to your estimate, Professor, your Silent Death rocket is
one thousand miles away and still heading West."
bone-breaking gun’le. . Why that kind
of wave should be known as a “China-
man” I’ve never been able to find out.
* * * *
“Tyab”: It is possible that not only
Bass Strait but all southern waters ere
warmer than formerly (B. 20/2/’57). It
is certainly true of northern seas. When
cod first appeared at Angmagssalik,
Greenland, in 1912, it was a new and
strange fish to Eskimos and Danes. By
1930 the natives had come to depend on it
for food and oil. On the west coast cod
was a rarity at the turn of the century ;
by 1919 the cod had beconje established
300 miles further north. Now the annual
catch is 15,000 tons a year. Green-cod,
haddock, cusk and ling, once unknown
in Greenland waters, are now taken
regularly. The recession of Polar ice,
the extended northerly migration of
birds, the dying of glaciers, are all
evidence of the gradual warming of the
seas at both Polar extremities.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Captain Bull, in charge of
a party of convicts building the road over
the Blue Mountains, certainly made him-
self comfortable at Bull’s Camp, near
Woodford. He had a splendid bath cut
out of the solid rock on the hill over-
looking the camp so that he could take
a bath in city comfort, while a short
distance away he made the convicts cut
an armchair out of the rock so that he
could sit and relax in comfort. It’s a pity
that these novelties were not carefully
preserved and suitably marked.
* * * *
“Fair Mac”: No experienced breeder
could support “Kelms’s” statements on
budgerigars (B. 6/2/’57). Hen budgies do
not “continue laying for weeks” ; they
lay a clutch of from five to nine eggs,
generally spaced at two-day intervals.
Mum alone sits, and commences when
the first egg is laid. Proof that the first
few nestlings hatched do not incubate
the remaining eggs while the
parents take it easy is estab-
lished if a hen dies: the cock
will usually take over the feed-
ing, but no more young will
hatch-out. And budgerigars
do not “pop” food into the
mouths of their offspring ; that
method belongs more to the
insectivorous birds. Budgies
partly digest the seed, then
regurgitate it back into their
nestlings’ mouths with a linger-
ing, pumping action. It is the
practising of this function
(not necessarily by mating
couples—two cocks will often indulge in
the practice) that gives the impression of
kissing—and the bird its popular nick-
name.
* * * *
“Bass”: A black insect a trifle longer
than a honey-bee, but rather slimmer,
and with an orange face-piece, the leaf-
cutter bee that’s cutting my rose-leaves to
pieces at the moment is a swift mover
and a competent workman. It takes only
a few seconds to cut a piece out of a leaf
—always the correct shape and size,
because that’s important—tuck it under
its chin and fly off to where it’s building
its nest. Most pieces are oval-shaped,
and the nest is built of these into a cir-
cular tube about the size of a pencil, and
divided into cells about half-an-inch
long; the base of the tube and the cell-
divisions being made from round seg-
ments that make a watertight seal. The
oval segments are laid lengthwise along
the tube, four to a complete round, each
overlapping the other and all holding and
being held by base-pieces or division-
pieces. Each cell is filled with nectar
and pollen, and an egg is laid in it before
it’s sealed and the next cell started. I’ve
counted five cells to a “nest.”
* # * *
“Maitri”: Peewees (always friendly
birds) have become even more matey
since we’ve supplemented - their rations
with cheese. Now they perch on our
feet, take the stuff from our hands, and
when it isn’t on tap fly to the back-
veranda and kitchen making raucous
demands. Yesterday one was a bit too
bold and invaded the living-room; there,
he completely lost his head. Though we
opened doors and windows, he just
careered madly round, damaging himself
badly. Finally I managed to imprison
him under a wire meat-cover, and so
edged him out to the porch. As soon as I
lifted the cover he flashed off into the
near-by flame-tree. Next morning he
was again in his usual possie, bloodied
but unbowed, and making his peremp-
tory demand for hotel-service.
* * * *
“Jacana”: Erstwhile dairymen in
these parts of Queensland have gone
over from butter to beef and wool. One
cocky’s reason for preferring the sheep:
“They’re so much easier to lift up in a
drought.”
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Any of the small and
aggressive species of ants could wipe
out the bulldogs in short order by invad-
ing their nests and eating their larvae.
Why they don’t do it is one of Nature’s
mysteries. Most formidable of all is
the Argentine. It is only one-eighth of
an inch long, soft-bodied and with no
formic-acid to squirt at enemies, but
when it moves into an area all other ants
are doomed. The Argentine doesn't
attack them directly; it breeds at an
astonishing rate through having hun-
dreds of queens in each colony, and pro
ceeds to clean-up every scrap of food in
the area, forcing the native ants to
migrate or starve.
THE JAY-BIRDS IN THE
MORNING
The jay-birds in the morning
Are a noisy, cheeky band,
So rowdy while they’re shaving,
Disturbing all the land;
Argue and rush their breakfast,
No time to brush their suits
Or put on cleaner collars
Or clean their dusty boots.
A cheeky lot of fellows,
Sort of brazen to look at,
No college education,
And never raise the hat;
No “sorry” or “beg pardon -
No giving up their seat,
Forget to pass the pepper,
No manners when they eat.
The skite, and mad commotion
As they yell out and boast
The while they boil the kettle
And make their morning toast —
Forget things in their hurry,
Look at the clock and swear,
And suffer palpitation
Through dashing everywhere.
They love the joy of living,
There’s life within their veins,
Be it the burning summer
Or winter’s dismal rains.
They’re volatile and hectic,
Their voices rough and rude,
A common lot of bounders
Who’ll never be subdued.
I hear them every morning
As they wake up the sun
And fill the sky with echoes,
Each cheeky, yelling one;
They’re anxious to get going,
Wave wide their arms and say:
“Come on, let’s all get busy;
What’ll we do today ?”
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


/”\LD Henry had been breaking-in
horses for years and had never been
hurt. His own explanation: “Me neck’s
too short to break and there’s nothin’
in me head.” —“Agricola.”
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Seagulls frequently sail
deeper inland than Concord (Sydney)
when cyclonic storms hit the coast —they
were here in numbers during the latest
buster—but it must have been a very
uncomfortable ocean to send an albatross
hovering over our local park.
* * * * ,
“Gravelsnatcher”: It is hard to pick
the sexes among emus (B. 6/2/’57), but
size influences selection to some extent
and in any pair the male is usually the
larger. There’s a surer method if you
can get close enough: in the male, the
skin on the neck and head is a brighter
blue. In the n.-e. wheatbelt of W.A. the
birds appear to be monogamous and the
male does most of the incubating,
although the hen occasionally takes a
turn on the nest.
* * * *
“Jabini”: Young Johnnie blued his first
pay on a fancy cowboy outfit. Racing
his prad about the house-paddock, he
aimed his lariat at a stump and scored
a bull’s-eye. He came off with a jerk,
and Old Rowley romped gaily on, un-
accompanied.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: My neighbor was
stung by a scorpion about 4in. long and
as thick as my middle-finger ; and the
sting proved less troublesome than that
of a sergeant-ant. But scorpions seldom
live up to their reputations for either
ferocity or potency of venom. However,
there are over 400 species of them, and it
isn’t safe to assume that they’re all rela-
tively harmless. They all possess poison
sufficiently powerful to paralyse their
natural prey, and as that can include small
mammals and huge insects the venom in
some species has to be potent. In the
Middle East, where they come as big as
Bin. long and built in proportion, the
sweet-natured inhabitants stage “cock-
fights” in which a scorpion usually has
the edge on its opponent, a big house-rat.
The two appear to be mortal enemies.
* * * *
“Uramao”: The prow of an old-time
Maori canoe has been found near a
burial-cave in N.Z.’s Rotorua district. A
remarkable feature of the 15ft. craft is
that the original vines used for binding
the splice in the side of the hull are
practically intact. An Auckland
ethnologist said it was difficult to date the
canoe’s age, but that it was undoubtedly
of pre-European origin.
* * * *
“Wandana”: The “Folk Museum,”
popular in overseas countries, frequently
in rural districts, is being established in
Australia, one of the latest being in
Tasmania. Farmyards are being combed
for ancient vehicles and tillage-imple-
ments ; and old-time kitchen-utensils,
family-cradles, etc., are being sought out.
One exhibit should be the rapidly
disappearing four-gallon square-walled
kerosene-tin, and the smooth-planed case
in which two tins sat together. I asked
my grocer if he could dig up a kero.-
case for me —he still thinks I’m mental.
The gay-painted round affairs which
replace them make handy buckets, but
not baking-dishes, wash-up tins, flower-
pot holders, and the dozens of other
articles that owned the kero.-tin for
parent.
* . * * *
“Cash Count”: A Tasmanian farmer
claims that he and his cows are united
by mental telepathy. He says that he and
Strawberry often have an intelligent
conversation at milking-time, without a
word being uttered by either of them ;
it’s a stream of conversation like water
running into milk, no doubt; everyone
knows it’s there, and no one can prove it.
* * * *
“Old Mac”: The local semi-domesti-
cated magpies show keen discrimination
in their attitude to various reptiles.
Towards snakes they are very hostile,
scolding and making threatening dives,
but never letting their valor get the better
of their discretion—they don’t attempt to
kill Joe ; only to drive him away. An old
bluetongue, belly-waddling across. the
lawn, may arouse a momentary curiosity,
but no particular interest; a bearded-
dragon is a butt for their mischievous
pranks ; they will tweak his tail and make
playful passes at him but they are not
really hostile. I have not seen their re-
action to a big goanna, but they’ll gang-up
on a small one, and he’s lucky if he can
reach some natural air-raid shelter in one
piece. I have yet to observe their reaction
to the bluff of a big frilled-lizard’s hostile
display.
It's On Next Sunday!
The Gentle Fifteen Hundred
By P. MORATH
EVERY year in March or April a
swarm of competitors line-up at
Balmoral, a Sydney beach, for
the 1500yds. swim, the longest
open- water race in Australia.
The 1957 running of this near-classic
event is due to come off on March 17.
Barring accidents, five of the original
competitors, their enthusiasm and mellow-
ness incongruously hand-in-hand, will
swim in their 21st Fifteen Hundred.
Originally conceived in a discussion
between Jack Dempsey (not the other
Jack) and Lou Morath, members of the
Balmoral Beach Club, who were of the
opinion that attention should be given
to stamina and endurance as well as to
speed in the club’s water-events, the race
has grown in interest, and enthusiasm has
so developed that now Christmas and
New Year festivities have come to be
regarded more in the nature of gastro-
nomic and social hurdles to be success-
fully engaged before the serious training
for the Fifteen Hundred begins.
As all Sydneysiders and many visitors
know, Balmoral Beach is situated directly
inside the opening between North and
South Heads, and, while normal condi-
tions include an ocean swell, when a
strong southerly or south-easterly wind
blows, the beach is pounded by dumping
waves 10ft. to . 15ft. high. This frequently
happens in March, but it is a point of
honor that the race should never be
cancelled because of the weather.
One year, with a cold southerly gale
blowing and waves 10ft. high breaking
on the beach, great difficulty was
experienced in mooring the buoys, and
immediately prior to the race one was
washed ashore. It was impossible to
launch a boat, but one of the competitors
swam out pushing the buoy and carrying
the anchor, and after a 20-minutes’
struggle the buoy was in position. The
race then commenced, and the obliging
competitor—Lou Morath—won it! '
On another occasion one of the buoys
tvas carried away in the course of the
race, and Ken Paul, a non-competitor
(due to illness, God bless him!), swam
out and held the buoy-flag above his head
to form a human marker until the race
had finished.
The training for the Fifteen Hundred is
both serious and secret, and more secret
than serious.
With the handicappers’ wary eyes on
them, it becomes a matter of necessity for
the adoption, firstly, of a laconic attitude
towards the idea of any training at all.
This front, however, does not prevent
nocturnal visits to the pool at Manly
accompanied by wives and girl-friends
"Now I'll be able to introduce you to Mother !”
trigger-trained in the intricacies of stop-
watch control; luncheon-hours devoted
to slipping away to some other swimming-
spot; dawn sprints along Balmoral
Beach—and all with a ready excuse to
hand for the curious . . . “My shoulder’s
been giving me gyp lately—thought a
bit of exercise might help” . . . “My back’s
been playing up a bit; nothing like salt-
water, you know.”
The fact that a few of the competitors
do tra j n together is a measure of their
friendship: one of these, Jack Dempsey,
has a little black book, produced when-
ever queries are raised about times,
weather conditions, etc., while training.
While it has never been the writer’s
privilege actually to hold the black book
in her own hands, information gleaned
from it includes one very good and sound
reason for a poor swim by young Harry
English. In the remarks-column has been
noted: “Harry did not swim well tonight
—had row with girl-friend!”
To those who have won the Fifteen
Hundred, who have raced up the beach
out of the water with breath coming
short and legs staggering, the victory
constitutes one of the most satisfying
moments of their lives.. Ask radio-and-
stage personalities Ross Higgins and
John Faassen, Drs. Warwick Williams
and Hughie Gibson, solicitor Basil Ferns,
schoolboy Bob Pridham.
The winner automatically sets him-
self for the next year to have a go at
beating the fastest time, recorded by
Jack Cox in 1936. (Jack died working on
the infamous Thai Railway as a
Japanese prisoner-of-war, and the race
is now officially titled the Jack Cox
Memorial Handicap). Actually, Paul
Blake bettered his time in 1951.
On the morning of the race, the handi-
caps are made public, and all the foxy
characters realise that the handicappers
are fully aware of all the secret-training
sessions, and have handicapped accord-
ingly. There are sheepish grins and
hollow groans, and the scratch man
scratches his head ; and then they all
march down to the water’s edge. (Next
year the handicaps will be published two
weeks before the race, which can only
result in training on an unprecedented
scale during the time available.)
Boardmen and water-skiers are
patrolling between the buoys set at each
end of the beach on the lookout for
sharks (last year, through the courtesy
of the Maritime Services Board, the
area was thoroughly meshed on the day
prior to the race); the competitors stand
stiffly to attention for two minutes as a
mark of respect for the dead of two
World Wars ; and then the race begins.
The limit man (more often a boy) slips
into the water, and the starters get busy
peeling-off the seconds.
At intervals varying from a few seconds
to 10 minutes (or even more), the com-
petitors, young, middle-aged and past-
middle-age dive into the water.
For the spectators, then, it is a matter
of trying to identify the individual styles
of the swimmers to see how they’re
going. The three Morath brothers (all
of whom have won the Fifteen Hundred ;
Lou three times) swim alike, so they have
to be lumped together ; Jack Dempsey’s
(he was the 1951 winner) leg-action gives
him away ; and perhaps there is a back-
stroke swimmer easily identified. Angus
McKenzie’s jet-propulsion through the
water can be picked out, and the easy
glide of young Paul Blake and Harry
English pegs a lot of them back.
It s not long before the leaders start to
sort themselves out and swim; the more
fortunate catch a wave, for the beach
after their final lap. The youngsters run
for the finishing-line, their breathing
easy and their legs steady; the not-so-
young do the same, with the exception
that their complexions are tinged with
purple.
The winner is congratulated, and the
second and the third man and the rest
are greeted with: “What happened to
you?” “What delayed you?” “Where’ve
you been?”
And it s all over for another year.


**r
A
7
■■
ROILS
RAZOR/
m \
BLA«€
mm
§1
STROPPED
IN ITS CASE
Even a fSohs can be improved! i Po£t-w.ar research has
developed!a sensational new- Rolls IsUPER Blade with
an even'?keener cutting^edgp :^for Y more
luxurious'shaves and still longer shaving life.
Honed f and } stropped in itsTcase, the |, new-process,
hollow-ground Sheffield steel blade gives'you years of
comfortable /shaving from the one blade—saves you
pounds/on tblades. Gives you a close, “open blade”
shave/with! the speed and ease of a'safety razor. At
leading'stores, chemists, tobacconists. Price, £5/7/6.
Now . . . better than everl
ROLLS RAZOR
THE* FINEST SHAVING INSTRUMENT
ROLLS RAZOR, COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA Pty. Ltd.
Wholesale Distributors:
K, H. MAAS & SONS PTY. ltd., 8a Castlereagh St., Sydney^
iSHNMO STVOU
Special Offer!
'Bring
oring your , “old faithful” right up to date. Send us
your Rolls Razor and let,us fit a new SUPER b l a<^~
price,. 25/6. „At : the; same time, we ™ll checltQver
your razor and grind and re-set your old blade
OF CHARGE. Address" as above.
BY APPOINTMENT TO
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHNNIE
WALKER
BORN 7820 STILL GOING STRONG
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.184.12
Budiness, Robbery, Etc.
Housing
poor are no longer always
with us; but they seem to
have been replaced by the hous-
ing problem.
There are various reasons for
the housing problem. One of
them is the obvious one of
inadequate productivity of *the
whole community ; homes have
to be built or produced as well
as financed, and production is
largely a matter of industrial
efficiency, hours worked, and
man-hour output. Our output of
nearly everything per working-
week is below what it ought to
be or could be.
Another is the war-time gap in
house-construction. From 1940
to 1945 there was very little
home-building, and even after-
wards it took some time to pick
up. Forcing home-construction
along when materials and man-
power were in short supply soon
after 1945 was one of the chief
causes of our inflated post-war
costs-structure.
Still another cause of the
housing shortage has been “fair”-
rent legislation rent-control
aimed at keeping the return to
the landlord down to something
like the 1942 level (allowing only
for increased rates and incidental
costs), and ignoring his claim for
compensation for cost-of-living
inflation on the same basis as
that by which the-wage-earner
is compensated.
Even though a landlord build-
ing, say, new flats is entitled by
law to a rent more in keeping
with costs, etc., at the time of
building, he sees no future for
such an investment should
further inflation occur. As a
result, most building investors
(or spec.-builders) prefer to build
home-units, and to sell them
off instead of renting them. This,
of course, involves finance for
purchase in most cases, and it
gets the potential home-renter
nowhere.
The migration programme has
in itself created a demand for
homes beyond the needs
of natural increase of the
indigenous population.
City Building
For several recent years the
construction of houses in Aus-
tralia averaged about 80,000 a
year. Recently it has fallen. to
70,000 a year—mainly, it is
claimed, because of financial
restriction.
It is pertinent to note that
the 1956 rate of homebuilding
was the lowest since 1949
lower even than in 1951, when
the economy had a greater shock
from credit-restriction than it
has had over the past year.
Reasons for this seem to be
several, but one is that not since
before the war has there been
so much city building going on
in Melbourne and Sydney.
In Sydney, probably have
there never been so many sky-
scrapers under construction at
the one time. This sudden city
building-activity has followed
about 16 years of little or no
new city building, and it is long
overdue. The search for office-
space in Sydney over the past
dozen years has been even more
desperate than the hunt for
private homes.
Apart from the need for
premises by the concern initially
responsible for a new city build-
ing, one reason for the 1956-57
spurt in activity was the
comparative wage - stability
following the temporary freez-
ing of the Federal award, creat-
ing greater confidence both in
the building contractor and the
firm financing the building.
Previously several construc-
tion firms' had gone bankrupt
through giving a fixed price for
a building job; and few city
people, on the other hand, were
prepared to let themselves in
for the unknown price of a cost-
plus building-contract.
This city building-activity has
taken work away in large lumps
from the builder who con-
centrates, because of his
limited resources, on cottage-
construction ; but it is %ery
doubtful if it has taken away
jobs from the building trade-
unions on anything like the same
scale.
Australia continues to build
houses at a greit rate, especially
in and around capital cities. And
its rate of construction over the
past decade, in proportion to
its population, has been higher
than in that most progressive of
young countries, Canada. It
can be said of Australia that,
as in social welfare and in
industrial relations, the Govern-
ment policy of paternalism in
housing has been carried to a
degree rarely seen in any other
country of the world. The
Federal authorities have made
large sums of money available
at low rates of interest, and seem
to have been ready to acknow-
ledge, on most occasions, the
great desirability of assisting
people to own their homes, or
to provide housing on the most
favorable terms compatible with
economic reality.
Economic Reality
But the significant words must
remain “economic reality.” The
question at present is not
whether finance for homes is
socially desirable ; it is whether
all the things which Australia
needs to do, and has partly
neglected to do, for the past 15
years can be done now, and all
the demands for housing satisfied
at the same time.
It is quite clear that they
cannot all be done. And it is
equally clear that the paternalism
of the 40-hour week, by reducing
productivity, stands in the way
of the paternalism of State
finance for housing. And on
top> of it all the “fair”-rents
legislation of State Governments
discourages the building of
homes for letting.
Some State Governments, like
that of South Australia, have
done well with the money at their
disposal in providing their popu-
lation with housing. But in
N.S.W., from which comes the
greatest wail about the housing
shortage, money has been spent
badly and unwisely at State
Government level. The popu-
lation of N.S.W., a State with
the greatest natural advantages
of any part of the Common-
wealth, is not growing at the
same rate as that of Victoria and
South Australia, for example.
All Australia is short of
capital, whether for industrial
purposes or housing needs. But
the State which squanders its
capital finds itself naturally
shortest of them all.
Business Sellers
VICTORIA’S determined
efforts to get dollars for
development and dollar-
companies into the State will be
advanced another stage, on a
semi-official level, next month
when Maurice Nathan, an
energetic and imaginative busi-
nessman and City Councillor,
will lead a Government-
sponsored businessman’s mission
to ten U.S. cities.
Last year Premier Henry
Bolte officially opened-up the
route for the dollar-seekers
which by design attracted pub-
licity in the U.S. and has since
had tangible results, chiefly in
the important development plans
announced by American firms
already established in Victoria,
whose principals, as Americans,
must have been influenced, to
some extent at least, by Henry
Bolte’s active seeking.
Nathan is a rich man, whose
father left only £120,000. (Some
Nathans leave a million,
although a few have left as little
as a quarter-of-a-million.) He
has made up for this inadequate
patrimony by increasing the
turnover of his furniture-shops
by 1400 per cent., and, with
his business career assured,
has become a protagonist of the
Victoria Promotions Committee,
the City Development Associa-
tion and other progressive move-
ments, including the Civic (non-
Lab.) Group in the City Council
which, all the same, seems able
“... .and We, the peoples of the free world...."
to whistle up the Laborites in a
council division to defeat the
old guard. Nathan is 43, a
former athlete, and had long
A.I.F. service.
Nathan’s choice as leader is
sound, and the suggestion by
Bo lte that his colleagues should
pay their own expenses will give
the mission a free-wheeling
impetus. The U.S. is well
supplied with enterprising
middle-aged men, but Nathan’s
team will be selling their country,
or opportunity in it, and their
presence under their own steam
in a selfless task will be proof
the prizes exist.
Time to Pause?
SINCE the beginning of 1957
Australian sharemarkets have
had a fairly strong rise, though
selection has been obvious, and
the average level of the market
is by no means yet near the peak
reached in 1955. Which means
that while a number of good-
class shares have reached near-
record levels, a mass of other
stocks are still 10 p.c. or more
below their 1955 “highs.”
Interim dividends and half-
yearly reports (as well as an
occasional annual report made
up to December 31) confirm the
irregular trend in profit-earning
suspected earlier. Some concerns
report losses, others reduced
profits and interim dividends,
while others (quite often those
which earlier sulfered a setback)
announce better earnings.
Among these are Yarra Falls, the
big woollen and textile concern.
The present might be an
appropriate moment for the
investor to pause in his pursuit
of stocks which have risen
steeply and show an unremunera-
tive yield. The price of wool
is inclined to steady, some
metals are trending downward,
and at this time of the year many
people are beginning to sell
shares in order to meet income-
tax assessments.
Arcadia (Q.)
[From Li. Owen]
OVER twenty yea,rs ago Dale
Condit and Dr. Frank
Reeves, working on behalf of
Oil Search, Ltd., made a study
of the Roma (Q.) area which,
('Continued on next page )


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
m
'
I:-: :,’-
‘ ' ' ?:
'
SjS& ■
r • ZTH
IffltPlp
Jk
:
mm
miSsmmt:
■' ■
registered
FIRST
mortgage
debenture
STOCK
7
o
Pe *ann
UM
f Or
Yb Ar s
fywumteaf dm
Fixed quarterly income free of
exchange.
OTHER TERMS
AVAILABLE
3 MONTHS TO
20 YEARS
SEE
PROSPECTUS
Fixed quarterly income free of
exchange.
Principal paid in full on maturity.
Principal paid in full before
maturity in certain circumstances
—refer Prospectus.
The largest asset backing of all
finance companies in Australia.
Assets exceed £40,000,000.
Underwriting Brokers to the issue:
lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne,
Sydney and Canberra.
Trustee for the Debenture Stock-
holders: The Perpetual Executors
& Trustees Association of Australia
Limited.
Requests for a Prospectus may be made to
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES and all Branches of the E.S. & A. BANK
LIMITED, NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA Ltd., and
Australia’s Leading Hire Purchase Organisation
16.3
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH HOBART
ROSENE
TILLEY a.
Read.
tamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON l± PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER RD, ESSEN DO N. VICTORIA.
even then, had been drilled
extensively for petroleum with-
out anything approaching
commercial results.
These studies, extended later
to the north by Reeves for a
distance of 200 miles, led the
geologists to believe that the
Roma oil and gas was derived
from source-beds of Permian
age, and that the oil had
migrated from the southern
extension of the Bowen basin.
Reeves mapped several domal
structures in outcropping beds
of Permian and, occasionally,
Lower Triassic age, and Oil
Search in 1935 began percussion-
drilling at Hutton Creek (about
60 miles north of Roma), and
at Arcadia, some 20 miles further
on. Shows of gas were struck in
the Hutton Creek bore. The
well at Arcadia showed traces of
oil at 2560 ft. and encountered
a heavy flow of gas, just above
2620 ft., in Permian shales broken
by thin sandstone bands. The
maximum pressure of this gas
has been given at over 27
atmospheres, and the maximum
daily rate of flow as four-million
cubic feet. The gas was described
as “wet,” but no condensate
content was given, and 80 per
cent, by volume consisted of
carbon-dioxide.
At the time, the impact of
such a high proportion of
carbon-dioxide on oil prospects
doesn’t appear to have been
realised, and both wells were
carried down to the capacity-
limit of the rigs, which was
between 3000 ft. and 4000 ft.
Drilling was resumed with
heavier-duty rotary plants
supplied by the Government,
which granted, also, financial aid
towards the costs of deepening.
The Hutton Creek well was
abandoned, in 1938, at 4668 ft.,
and that at Arcadia, late in 1939,
at 6025 ft., without noting any
further strikes of oil or gas, and
without reaching the base of the
Permian, whose thickness had
been underestimated.
Some 50 miles north-west of
Arcadia, a Shell subsidiary sited
and drilled the dry Morelia well
down to igneous rock. It
abandoned all field operations in
the Roma-Springsure area, in
1956, after expending over a
million pounds in geological and
geophysical surveys and in drill-
ing. Another co., in 1954-55,
sunk abortive wells on the
northern extension of the
Morelia structure.
In view of these disappointing
results, both to the north and
south, it is surprising to learn
that yet another co.—and one,
at that, whose experiences in the
search for petroleum near Roma
can hardly be described as happy
—is preparing to drill a flank-
well on the Arcadia structure.
The report announcing this
temerity states that it hopes “to
probe the oil-bearing sands
which are expected to occur” at
a depth of about 3000 ft. and that
operations should commence
shortly. *
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
TS Britain an unhappy
J country? The queues at the
emigration offices would suggest
that it is. The pollsters affirm
that some 40 per cent, of the
population would emigrate “if
they could,” and about a quarter
of the students at the older uni-
versities declare that they intend
to do so after graduation.
Yet, for all the ceaseless
moaning about the rising cost-
of-living, penal taxation, lack
of incentives and so on, the
degree of material prosperity is
fantastically hifeh compared with
that of our grandparents. The
TV-set, the washing-machine,
the power-tool and, now, the
radiogram, are considered as
essentials in most homes.
In order to reach a wide
public, the travel-agencies are
spending enormous sums of
money in newspaper-advertising.
It. is certain that they will reap
handsome returns, for one learns
that the night-tourist flights to
the Continent during the
summer months are already
fully reserved.
Grandfather, who put by a
few shillings a week for eight
days’ holiday (without pay,
too) at a conveniently-near sea-
resort, would be amazed rather
than sympathetic if he were to
be reincarnated. Without doubt,
he would also be at the front of
the emigration queue.
It is the state of the world and
the frustrations of the inflation-
ridden Welfare State that chafe.
If: space-travel were not so wild
a fiction there would, no doubt,
be queues for Mars.
The Root of Ingenuity
The pressure for more and
more money has shifted from
the wage-earning classes to those
who used to be called the “better-
off.” This is not to imply that
the trade-unions have resigned
themselves to wage-restraint and
that their members are content
to consolidate their gains.
Rather does it mean that the
better-off are showing that the
union leaders have no monopoly
of militancy, plausibility and
ingenuity.
Emigration talk has provoked
some of our industrialists into
gloomy forecasts of business
and industry iri decay because
all its young executives,
impoverished by surtax, have
taken their talents elsewhere.
Technicians at the power-stations
have threatened to work to rule,
thus necessitating substantial
power-cuts, unless differentials
are increased. And now all the
general practitioners, represented
by the British Medical Associ-
ation, threaten to withdraw
from the Health Service unless
. The doctors complain,
not without justification, that
the Government has broken
its promises to them and
claim a 24 p.c. increase in pay
to compensate for the fall in the
value of money during the last
six years. This would make a
G.P.’s average gross income up
to £2,700 a year and would
cost the nation a further £2O
million a year.
The Government’s dilemma is
real enough. It is trying hard,
and rather vainly, to induce
restraint in wage-claims, to
prune its own expenditure and,
in the long run, to reduce taxa-
tion. The costs of the social
services have increased
enormously (exceeding their
estimates by nearly £l5O
million) and last year’s pay-
increases to civil servants and
teachers were considerable.
Meanwhile, Mr. Thorney-
croft’s “little Budget,” which he
tactlessly (or, maybe, puckishly)
introduced immediately after the
new Labor Member for North
Lewisham entered the House,
has had a mixed reception. The
Opposition went wild with
delighted indignation at such a
reactionary measure dearer
school meals and welfare milk
and Higher National Health con-
tributions. Of course, parents
can afford the extra coppers and
present contributions pay for
only one-tenth of the cost of the
Health Service, but there is
criticism, from quarters anxious
for the Government to succeed,
that the saving (£57 million in a
full year) is paltry and the
timing bad. The Chancellor,
runs the complaint, is going out
of his way to appear unpopular.
Mixed-up Kid
It is to be hoped, both for the
sake of our young actresses and
for those who go to see them,
that the representation of
juveniles on the stage will not
become a cult.
In “The Diary of Anne
Frank,” Perlita Neilsen, a
married woman, portrays a girl
between the ages of thirteen and
fifteen with fair conviction. Her
task, though exacting, is not
an impossible one for the sub-
stance of the play is ' strong,
enjoining sympathy and the
emotions with a compelling
immediacy. Anne’s growing
pains are seen objectively and
are subordinate to the corporate
tragedy of the community she
has recorded.
Carson McCullers’s “The
Member of the Wedding”
(Royal Court Theatre) fails
where the other play succeeds.
The twelve-year-old Frankie
Addams is gauche, sexless,
inhibited, selfish and, altogether*
in urgent need of a child psychi-
artist. Her “crushes,” tantrums
and rationalisations are entirely
subjective, with the result that
her associates are seen through
jaundiced eyes.
Frankie is hopelessly awry.
Despised by her school-fellows,
motherless and neglected by her
father, she has to fall back for
companionship upon her eight-
year-old cousin, a sparrowlike
boy from the next house, and
upon the Negress housekeeper.
Her uneasy little mind, questing
for a solution, finds this in a
private plan (communicated to
the audience at the end of Act 1),
to attach herself to her brother
and his bride and to join them,
as a sister to both, on their
honeymoon. This naturally
leads to a distressing and
embarrassing scene after the
wedding. Frankie runs away but
returns in time to re-emerge,
everything forgotten, as a fairly
natural schoolgirl and to
transfer her “crush” upon a girl
of her own age.
It would seem to be beyond
the capacity of a grown woman
(for that matter, even of a
highly-talented child) to make
this part convincing on the stage.
Geraldine McEwan galumphs
bravely through it with only one
moment of reward the final
transformation. Moreover, the
location, Georgia, is better
expressed by the designer and
stage-manager than by the
assimilated drawls.
As in life, the aberration of
an overwrought personality Jias
a distorting effect upon other
people. Because of Frankie, the
warm, generous and too-human
Negress, Berenice (played with
great sensitivity by Bertice
Reading), and the weakling
cousin (conveyed with astonish-
ing realism by John Hall) are
not seen to the best advantage.
There is a secondary theme of
racial suffering and implied per-
secution and the last scene
poignantly reveals a double
message: that adolescents, in the
flush of new-found excitement,
quickly forget past intimates;
and that such manifestation can
hurt cruelly, for the loyal
Berenice, no longer needed by
those whom she has served and
loved, has to start afresh, in a
world where, because of her
color, she feels inferior.
In sum, the original novel
does not adapt well to the stage,
but the understanding, sympathy
and poetry of the writing impel
the playgoer towards the bodk-
shop with the name of McCullers
on his lips.


Experienced
Management of Agricultural and Pastoral Properties
iMwpsMled i« VictMia fat W*
TR373S
The Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTD.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee
Company, has a wide association with the administration of rural properties.
It provides efficient management, safeguards the interests of dependents,
and provides ample security for the performance of Trusts at a fixed and
moderate cost.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following
★ Advantages of appointing the Company as your Executor either alone or
jointly with some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, 1972,657.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.S., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D. {Chairman); Jones; J. Cuming
Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; W. E. M. Campbell.
David Wilson, M.A.', LL.B., <?.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Uslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.8.E., C.M.©., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B, Hotter; W. Sydney Jones; Alan ©. Potter.
THE WILD CAL
COUMN
British Tobacco Co. (Aust.), Ltd.
BRITISH TOBACCO’S well-sustained
rise in earning-power, coupled with
its impressive expansion programme,
should help to dispel doubts about the
future of the tobacco industry following
a variety of comments from the medical
profession. At 365. 3d. on ’Change (345.
3d. a year ago) the f.-p. ords. show an
immediate return of 5.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The “B” ordinaries sell for
32& 6d. to yield 6.2 p.c.
The co. doesn’t reveal what last year’s
turnover was, except to say that sales
increased “rapidly and substantially.”
Production costs, chiefly labor and leaf-
tobacco, were higher, and for the most
part they were absorbed in the bigger out-
put without any corresponding increase
in prices, except last March, to pass on
the added excise-duty. It was a satisfying
achievement, therefore, that after mak-
ing increased provision for depreciation
(£390,742, up £44,629) and taxation
(£1,923,950), and setting aside £BOO,OOO
(up £269,900) for revenue reserves, etc.,
and eliminating outside shareholders’
interests, the co. was able to write its
profit £7221 stronger at £1,483,380.
Including the additions to . revenue
reserves (£550,000) and plant-replacement
provision (£250,000), profit was £277,121
better at £2,283,380:
British Tobacco and Subsidiaries.*
, 'Dividends
Pref. Re-
Oct., Profit. 64 p.c. Ordinary. serves.t
1951.. 1,065,399 111,188 9 pc. = 963,970 2,844,612
From inner reserves, £1,694,015 .. 4,538,627
From depreciation provision, £933,240 5,471,867
1952.. 1,000,444 111,188 Bjp.c. = 883,640 5,477,483
From tax provision, etc., £454.727.. 5,932,210
1953. . 1,078,687 111.18 S 9 p.c, = 963,970 5,935,739
Share premiums, £669,424 . . . . 6,605,163
1954. .1,909,571 111,1S8 10 p.e. =1,338,848 7,064,698
1955. .2,006,259 111,188 10 „ ~1,338,848 7,620,921
1956, .2,283,380 111,188 10 ~ ~1,338,848 8,454,265
* After deducting outsiders’ interests, t Subject to
intangibles, £3,995,759 at 30/6/’56.
The year’s £2,283,380 covered the pref.
div. and 16.3 p.c. on ords. and “B” ords.,
compared with 14.1 p.c. in 1955 and 13.4,
9.9, 8.3 and 8.9 p.c. back to 1951. The
dividend was held at 10 p.c. Size of the
projected building programme is likely
to defer any immediate alteration to the
rate.
With the appearance of several new
manufacturers on the local scene, com-
petition is stronger now than at any time
since before the war, though B.T. is
still not quite able to supply all demands
for its products—an excellent sign, the
chairman says, of the sustained popu-
larity of the co.’s brands.
The table shows how Australian con-
sumption of manufactured tobacco, in
total and per he'ad of population, has
moved in recent years:
Tobacco Consumption in Australia.*
(Tobacco, Cigars, Cigarettes.)
Per Head of
Total, Population,
June, Lbs. Lbs.
1958 .. .. .. 42,842,000 4.90
1954 46,092,000 5.17
1955 .. .. .. 46,863,000 5.16
1956 47,271,000 .6.07
* Source: Commonwealth Bureau of Census and
Statistics, Canberra.
At present the trade gets only a small
proportion of its requirements of leaf-
tobacco from Australian growers (in
1955 about 11 p.c.); the balance is
imported from abroad under quotas
allotted by the Department of Trade.
Both the system under which the per-
centage of locally-grown leaf to be used
in the manufacture of cigarettes and
tobacco (from July 1 to be 12-jr p.c. and 21
p.c. respectively) is fixed by the Common-
wealth Government on the basis of crop
estimates, before the actual harvest is
known, and the administration of import-
licensing come in for strong criticism in
B.T.’s annual report. The co. claims that
for at least four years it has been unable
to obtain licences for its needs of tobacco,
while other manufacturers in the industry
have been granted “an abundance of leaf
supplies.” The result has been that the
co. has had to buy leaf from some of its
competitors “at premium rates.” Similar
difficulties, it says, have been experienced
with supplies of wrapping-materials and
machinery.
The balance of a private issue of
£4-million of 6 p.c. registered unsecured
notes was gathered in during the year.
Added to the year’s surplus profit it
enabled the co. to reduce its debt to the
bank (down £255,341) and trade creditors
(down £270,537), carry £1,262,600 more
in book-debts and add £1,224,821 (net)
to the book-values of freeholds and
plant:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref. £1,710,588 £1,710,588 £1,710,588
Ora. . . 13,388,476 13,388,476 13,388,476
Reserves . . 7,064,698 7,620,921 8,454,265
Outside interests 79,550 78,675 76,375
Notes . . . . 2,385,650 4,000,000
Overdraft .. 6,003,295 5,900,075 5,644,734
Creditors . . 2,088,914 3,745,266 3,474,729
Tax provision,
etc. .. .. 1,883,851 2,095,760 2,672,496
Pinal divs. .. 267,770 267,770 267,770
£32,487,142 £37,193,181 £39,689,433
Freeholds . . 671,752 801,694 1,615,054
Plant, etc. . . 1,430,583 1,781,021 2,192,482
Shares other cos 101 12,101 85,651
Stock, etc. . . -64,013,065 27,845,279 27,789,259
Debtors . . 2,3-33,264 2,725,778 3,988,378
Cash, bonds . . 42,852 31,693 22,850
Goodwill, etc.. . 3,995,525 3,995,615 3,995,759
£32,487,142 £37,193,181 £39,689,433
A new leaf store at Raleigh Park (Sydney)
and sales branch at' Adelaide were com-
pleted, and a start is soon to be made on
new sales premises at Hobart and Towns-
ville. Work on the new cigarette factory
at Virginia Park (Melbourne) is going to
schedule, and production should begin
towards the end of the year. Preparatory
investigations and planning are also in
progress for new factories in other cities.
In the past all manufacturing has been
concentrated at Sydney and Melbourne.
Net tangible cover for the shares on
conservative book-values is £ll 4s. 4d.
the prefs.j 275. lid. the ords., and 7s. sd.
the “B” ords. The last rank equally with
the ords. for divs. but in a winding-up
are deferred as to capital.
A.E.1., Ltd.
A merger between several leading U.K.
electrical engineering and appliance
cos. and the subsequent association of
their Australian branches with the U.S.
General Electric Co.’s Australian interest
led to the formation of Australian Elec-
trical Industries Pty., (then known as
Australian General Electric Pty.) in
1931,. In 1955 the U.S. co. sold its 50 p.c.
shareholding in the pty. co. to the
English parent, Associated Electrical
Industries, Ltd. The parent co., in the
same year, formed an Australian holding
co., A.E.1., Ltd., to acquire the paid
capital of Australian Electrical Industries,
Pty., and offered 1,050,000 of the holding
co.’s 4,000,000 f.-p. £1 ords. to the public
at 20s. 4d.
A.E.1., Ltd., is well supplied with
wealthy and influential relatives: Metro-
politan-Vickers Electrical Co., Ltd.,
British Thompson-Houston Co., Ltd.,
and Edison Swan Electric Co., Ltd., being
among the cos. with a share-interest in
the English parent.
Items handled or manufactured by
A.E.I. range from generating equipment,
switchgear and diesel-electric locos, to
fluorescent lamps and household
electrical appliances. An associate co.,
Edison-Ekco (Aust.) Pty., produces tele-
vision-receivers. Principal manufacturing
centres are at Auburn (N.S.W.) and
Richmond (Victoria), but other factories
in the eastern States and S.A. also help to
supply an Australia-wide market.
The reduction in Government and semi-
Government capital-expenditure, credit-
and import-restrictions and increased
sales-tax affected turnover last term, while
higher operating costs and taxation made
trading less profitable. The latest
accounts, for the year to October 31,
1956 (13 months for the operating co.’s
subsidiaries), show a net profit of
£367,232, after allowing for outside share-
holders, providing £297,429 for taxation
and setting aside £110,746 for deprecia-
tion. A fall of £59,507 in earnings is
disclosed when appropriate adjustments
are made to the previous term’s (13
months) figures.
The £367,232 equalled a return of 9.1
p.c. on paid capital compared with a
rate of 10.6 p.c. (p.a.) in 1955. A p.c.
div., the first, required £300,000.
Licensing difficulties last term delayed
or prevented the importation of machine-
tools needed for the current £2,000,000
modernisation and expansion programme;
however, capital expenditure added a net
£486,837 to the cost-/e<w-depreciation
value of fixed assets:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital .. .. .. £4,000,000 £4,000,000
Reserves ~ . . .. 590,832 660,666
Minority interest .. .. 78,643 83,268
Mortgage. .. .. .. 750,000
Owing to associated cos. .. 545,940 1,642,133
Overdraft .. .. .. 175,376 187,123
Creditors . . . . .. 1,430,812 1,286,711
Sundry provisions .. .. 63,692 66,781
Tax provision .. .. 336,598 302,206
Final div. .. .. .. 150,000
£7,220,893 £9,128,888
Fixed assets .. .. .. 1,378,725 1,805,562
Owing by associated cos. .. 592,277 860,227
Stock 3,042,685 3,747.931
Debtors, etc. .. . . .. 2,204,006 2,652,082
Cash 3,200 3,086
£7,220,893 £9,128,888
It is intended that finance for the expan-
sion programme will come from loans,
rather than share-issues, and to this end
a £750,000 mortgage was arranged dur-
ing the year. A slight decrease in current
liabilities and an extra £705,246 in stocks
and £448,076 in debtors took working-
capital to £4,410,278, excluding a net
£781,906 owing to associated cos.
The earning rate over the last two
terms gives little promise of any early
improvement in the dividend, but the
current installation of new plant and
expansion of production facilities should
eventually give shareholders a higher
return from their investment. As yet no
evidence has been produced to support
the rumour, current last year, that A.E.I.
would join the proposed A.W.A.-Email
merger.
The consolidated accounts give the
f.-p. £1 ords. a net tangible backing of
235. 4d. At 28s. 4d. the scrip would
return 5.2 p.c. from a p.c. distribution.
Tecnico, Ltd.
ORDINARY shareholders in Tecnico,
Ltd., haven’t sighted a dividend-
cheque for over four years, but since
Pye, Ltd., of England acquired a majority-
holding in the co. last term the Tecnico
f.-p. £1 ords., which sold at 9s. 3d. last
August, have brought as much as 195.,
and are currently selling at around 18s.
Formed as the Eastern Trading Co.,
Ltd., in 1924, the co. later changed its
name to E.T.C. Industries, Ltd., and in
1942 adopted the present title. War-time
contracts followed by a strong demand
for domestic appliances led to expansion
of the co.’s manufacturing facilities, and
paid capital, £lOO,OOO in June, ’45, had
risen to £815,000 by February, ’5l. Ord.
divs. for the 10 years to 1951 averaged a
shade over 7£ p.c.
With increased Australian production,
trading in the domestic-appliance market
became keenly competitive, and, as
demand slackened, Tecnico was unable
to achieve the turnover essential for
economic use of its plant. Alter passing
the pref. div. in 1954, the co., with sub-
sidiaries’ profits taken into account, ran
up a net loss of £111,840 in the 1955 term.
Radio- and TV-receivers, tape-
recorders, powered lawnmowers, floor-
polishers and vacuum-cleaners are the
main items produced by the parent co. at
its Marrickville (Sydney) h.-q. There are
two operating subsidiaries, Bendix-
Tecnico, Pty., manufacturing and servic-
ing aircraft-instruments and electrical
equipment at Rockdale (Sydney), and
F. W. Davey and Co. Pty., (Melbourne),
which turns out electric • motors,
generators, water-pump and water-
Dressure systems.
Last term (to June3o), both subsidiaries
operated at a profit, but their contribu-
tion to group-earnings was £29,921 lower
at £14,776. The parent, with financial
assistance from Pye, Ltd., showed a loss
of £65,546, or £90,991 less than the
previous term’s deficit. The net loss
attributed to the group, after allowing
for outside shareholders, was £50,770,
compared with the £111,840 loss in 1954-
55. In the parent’s accounts £69,000
(down £12,712) was provided for
depreciation and amortisation. An
inadequate turnover was still regarded as
the main problem:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To re- Re-
June 30, Profit. , Dividends. serves, serves.*
Pref. Ord.
74 & 5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
1952.. 47,421 10,250 3|p.c.=23,625_13,546 131,587
Less subsidiary’s reserves, £2,855 _.. 128,73 u
Special amortisation provision, £42,500 86,232
1953.. 5,171 10,250 Nil 81,153
Tax overprovided, £5,715 .. 86,868
1954.. 13,688 Nil Nil 13,688 100,a56
Tax overprovided, £155 .. 100,711
Loss* Deficit*
1955.. 111,840 Nil Nil U 429
Tax overprovided, £1294 .. ..
1956.. 50,770 Nil Nil —, ,60,60 a
* Subject to intangibles, £78,643 at 30/6/’55.
The loss took the p.rand-1. debit to
£60,605, and, with goodwill, patents, etc.,
in at £78,643, and £30,750 due to pref.
shareholders, net tangible assets
amounted to £665,502 while paid capital,
including £185,000 in prefs., totalled
£835,500.
Pye, Ltd., which acquired its original
holding (at par) direct from shareholders,
took up a further 20,500 £1 ords. during
the term, as well as making a £50,000
advance to the co. This enabled the
purchase of a new factory for Bendix-
Tecnico and the installation of
additional plant without any increase in
the overdraft (down £20,718), although
at balance-date there was an extra
£86,785 owing to creditors. Fixed assets,
at oost less depreciation, increased by a
net £118,875:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955.
Pref .. £185,000 £185,000 £lBo,ooo
Ord 630,000 630,000 650,500
Reserves .. .. 100,556
Outside interests.. 102,707 119,821 130,242
Loan . . .. 50,000
Overdraft . . . . 305,851 509,812 489,094
Creditors .. .. 188,576 276,222 363,007
Tax provision .. 40,572 57,584 18,470
£1,613,262 £1,778,439 £1,586,313
Land, buildings . . 98,068 147,643 224,824
Plant, etc. .. 276,408 315,286 356,971
Stock . . .. 795,362 783,591 862,662
Debtors . . .. 270,168 361,644 290,936
Cash .. .. 94,613 80,503 11,672
intangibles .. 78,643 78,643 78,643
Deficit .. .. 11,129 60,60.)
£1,613,262 £1,778,439 £1,886,313
Despite aid from Pye, the liquid position
deteriorated, holdings of cash fell by
£68,831, debtors dropped by £70,708,
while stocks increased by £79,071. Work-
ing-capital at £294,699 was down by
£87,421.
It would be unwise to look for a
profit from Tecnico in the current term
purely from the manufacture of tele-
vision receivers. The volume production
which the co., like its competitors, needs
for profitable manufacture is dependent
on the level of sales to the public, and at
the end of February only 26,532 tele-
vision-licences had been issued through-
out Australia. Next term, however, with


INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant super-
vision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY - BU 5445
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Us
:: •
Remind Dad about a Child's
Advancement Policy. A small premium will look after
my education or launch me on a career.
"The Metropolitan" has a number of suitable policies.
AUSTRALIAN,
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD. (Ins/in Old. 1895)
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY. BW 8061
ffow
about nuj
irFE
ASSU*
, [£ KStAUft R
i**
roof
*/>r
*UGu
Of/ BOH**/GCOS^
SAVE
• .. . :
HARDIES
(rego. trade mark)
ASBESTOS.CEMENT
wmrnmm
V*VW " c ® A I H „ r“ I BEDPM
T"“ ’ ,80 l J-J 14-.9V
F
SwS
!Ofcl*V
m
WwM
ipipii
sK¥#*'S:S?i
p| i 4 ulOb J-.v
DIN ING fCNTRY^
:^i>s
O „
S|.i'
Just think of it! You can build your colourful,
contemporary home, be living in it weeks earlier
... if you build with Hardie’s “Fibrolite”.
You’ll save money, too! “Fibrolite” speeds
construction, cuts building costs. And, of
course, Hardie’s “Fibrolite” is the ideal material
for Australian homes for exterior and
interior walls as well as ceilings. It is cooler in
summer, white-ant and borer proof, weather-
proof— and fire-retardant too! Moreover,
Hardie’s “Fibrolite” minimises maintenance
costs; it actually improves with age.
Sole Manufacturers:
JAMES HAROIE & COY. PTY. LTD.
Cnr. York and Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
Newcastle Office: 324-326 King
Street.
To: JAMES HARDIE & COY. PTY. LTD.,
Box 3935, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me, FREE and POST FREE,, your illustrated
Booklet with full information and designs of modern
“Fibrolite” Homes.
NAME - -□
ADDRESS 1 . „„
FH24/B
Please cross square if you would like our Representative
to call and advise you on your home building problems.
STOCKED BY LEADING HARDWARE AND TIMBER
MERCHANTS.
the backing of the powerful Pye
organisation the co. may be more
successful and, as far as last
November, the directors
“expected” future operations to
be carried on at “profitable
levels.”
Cellulose Australia, Ltd.
A PPLICATIONS for the
Cellulose Australia, Ltd., new
share-issue will close on March
21. Shareholders who were
registered with the co. on
February 26 are offered 190,000
£ 1 ordinaries at par, on the basis
of one new share for every two
held. The first instalment of 10s.
a share is due with applications,
and the rest is payable by
October 1. When the scrip is
fully paid-up, capital will be
£696,875, including £126,875 of
5 p.c. cum. prefs. Dividends on
the new capital will be calculated
as from April 1.
The co. manufactures paper-
board from chemical and
groundwood pulp and waste
paper, near Millicent, in South
Australia. The mill got into
production in 1943, and output
has been maintained at around
8000 tons a year. When the
current programme of modern-
isation and expansion is com-
pleted the' co. will be able to
increase “substantially” the pro-
duction and quality of paper-
board.
As producers go in the
industry, Cellulose Australia is
a relatively small one, but it
doesn’t appear to be at any
disadvantage with its bigger
competitors on that account.
The profit record has been
particularly pleasing:
Re-
Jne., Prft. Pref. t —Dividends—, serves.
5 p.e.
£ £ £ £
New issue exp. w/off, £7758 63,986
’52.. 80,221 487 7 p.c. =18,089 125,631
Tax underprovided, £3821 . . 121,810
New issue exp. w/off, £408.. 121,402
’53..115,548 6344 8 p.c. =30,150 200,456
Tax overprovided, £20,215 .. 220,671
To contingencies, £3533 .. 217,138
’54..120,753 6344 83 p.c. =32,284 299,263
’55..126,279 6344 9 p.e. =34,200 384,998
’56..122,302 6344 9 p.c. =34,200 466,756
Last term, after providing an
unspecified amount for deprecia-
tion and £68,000 (up £2000) for
tax, profit edged down £3977 to
£122,302, which covered the
pref. div. and a still very satis-
factory 30.5 p.c. on ordinary
capital, as against 31.6 p.c. in
1955 and 23.1, 28.9 and 30.9 p.c.
back to 1952. Shareholders
haven’t had much in the way
of dividends (average for the
last five years is 8.3 p.c.), but the
board’s careful policy during
reconstruction should mean
extra benefits later on. At June
30 reserves, including a provision,
for replacement and other con-
tingencies (£94,494) stood at
£561,251.
So far the co. has carried out
all alterations to the mill with
a minimum of interference to
production. It was hoped to
complete the installation of new
plant during the Christmas vaca-
tion, last year.
Net additions to land, build-
ings and plant during the 1956
term cost £107,087, and an extra
£37,043 stock, £27,785 debtors
and £22,349 cash were carried,
financed chiefly on bank credit
(up £110,752) and surplus
profits:
Paid capital— 1955. 1956.
Pref £126,875 £126,875
Ord 380,000 380,000
Reserves .. .. 384,998 466,757
Replacements, etc. 97,556 94,494
Overdraft .. .. 21,870 132,622
Creditors .. .. 56,398 58,817
Tax provision .. 66,000 68,396
Pinal divs. .. 22,172 22,172
£1,155,869 £1,350,133
Land, buildings,
plant .. .. 728,051 835,138
Stock .. .. 273,431 310,474
Debtors .. .. 140,291 168,076
Cash, etc 14,096 36,445
£1,155,869 £1,350,133
On Adelaide ’Change the rights
to the new issue are bringing
around 12s. Allowing for
brokerage and another 20s. for
the co. the return on a 9 p.c. div.
basis would be a satisfactory
5.5 p.c. at 325. the
f.-p. ords. return about the same.
Including the new capital net
asset backing for the ords. is
435. 2d. and the prefs. £9 17s. Bd.
Timor Oil, Ltd.
nrHE latest Australian co. to
join in the hunt for oil,
Timor Oil, Ltd., is offering
3,793,000 ss. shares to the public
at par, payable in full on appli-
cation. With another 200,000
shares reserved for the original
holders of the Timor concession
and 7000 shares taken by direc-
tors, the co. expects to get under
way with a paid capital of
£1,000,000.
Armed with an authority to
prospect for oil over the greater
part of Portuguese Timor
(approximately half of Timor is
under Indonesian rule), the
co. plans to commence explora-
tion and testing on the island
“immediately.” It is antici-
pated that drilling, on sites
already selected, will commence
within the next three or four
months. At first activity will
be concentrated around the
Aliambata and Suai areas,
where there are known seepages.
(Oil-seepages, incidentally, are
not necessarily a favorable
indication of an intact
petroleum - reservoir in th e
vicinity.) m
Vendors of the concession,
granted by the Portuguese Gov-
ernment, will receive £135,000,
including £35,000 as a
reimbursement of expenses. Of
the remaining £lOO,OOO, £50,000
will be in scrip. Further pay-
ments in scrip (to give a maxi-
mum total consideration of
£335,000) are provided for on
the production of oil in com-
mercial quantities. The vendors
also hold an option to purchase
400,000 shares at par after April,
1958, or on a prior increase of
issued capital.
Field operations will be
carried out by Oil Drilling and
Exploration, Ltd., which has
arranged to sell its Brewster
N 55 rig to the co. at book-value
—£126,000. O.D.E. has also
applied for 200,000 shares and
arranged for an additional
500,000 shares to be made avail-
able to its shareholders. Com-
monwealth Mining Investments
(Australia), Ltd., has reserved
500,000 shares for stockholders,
the co. itself taking 20,000. The
issue is underwritten by Sydney
stockbrokers Charles A. Ord and
Minnett.
A working-capital of £536,000
is anticipated after allowing
£262,000 for plant, etc., £66,300
for preliminary expenses and
brokerage and £135,000 for the
vendors. This amount, it is
hoped, will allow the co. to sink
five or six holes to a depth of
6500 ft.
Dr. W. F. Schneeberger, an
American consultant (at one
time attached to the Bureau of
Mineral Resources), states that
“Portuguese Timor is considered
a potential oil-producing area,”
but warns that the establishment
“of commercial production is
not as easy as it would be under
less complicated structural con-
ditions.” A second geologist,
A. C. Mendelson, comments
favorably on the possibilities of
commercial production. It isn’t
clear as to whether either of
these gentlemen have actually
visited Timor.
As should be the case in all
“speculative” ventures, the pros-
pectus, issued last week, is a
comprehensive and informative
document in contrast with
some of the beach-mining
prospectuses around last year.
Acting-chairman of the board
is K. A. Cameron; other mem-
bers being J. G. Antliff, A. R.
Dodson, J. F. Linton and J. E.
Becker. There are two overseas
(associate) directors —Sir Henry
King and Jose da Veige Lima,
both of Lisbon.
Australian Uranium Corp.
/'OPERATIONS at the Adelaide
River uranium-mine (N.T.)
were suspended early last month,
and the directors of Australian
Uranium Corp, N.L., are now
“investigating ways and means”
of resuming production, which,
in this case, appears to mean
“ways and means” of financing
the necessary exploration and
development work.
According to a report pre-
pared by the mine-manager and
the co.’s consultant geologist,
“continual breakdowns” of the
power-plant taken over by the
co. in 1955 have “seriously and
drastically interrupted mine
production,” while efforts to
extract the ore by the cheapest
possible methods have resulted
in considerable ore-dilution.
The report strikes a familiar
note when it points out that the
original working-capital “has
proved quite insufficient” to
finance the exploration and
development envisaged in the
prospectus.
The co. was formed in March,
1955, and by early February,
1957, had shipped a total of
2373 tons of ofe to Rum Jungle.
Proceeds for all but 353 tons
amounted to £68,249. Ore-
reserves (proved) are given as
2500 tons, with 25,000 tons
“indicated” of a grade not less
than 0.4 p.c. U3OB.
At June 30 last the balance-
sheet showed “mining-areas and
properties” at £118,994, mine
development, etc., £38,818, in-
tangibles £lB,BBl and a p.-and-l.
debit of £27,643. Current
assets exceeded liabilities by
£71,387. The £340,959 paid
capital is in f.-p. 2s. 6d. stock
units, recent sales bringing lOd.
Clarence River Oil
A FLOW of gas was reported
last week by Clarence River
Basin Oil Exploration Co., in the
old Grafton racecourse bore-
hole. When the valve was
opened in a formation test at
2912 ft. “a very strong flow of
gas continued for a short
period,” and stopped when mud
was blown over the rig, choking
the tubing and valve.
Directors state that the report
proves that the packer-valve is
excluding water from the hole,
permitting gas to flow from the
known gas area. They claim that
the gas in the hole is of
commercial value, and invited
Commonwealth and State
authorities to be present at the
second test made last Friday. The
co.’s contractors are the Pacific
Boring Co. Pty., Ltd., of Yass.
The presence of gas in the
hole has been known since it
was first put down by the State
Water Conservation and Irriga-
tion Commission in 1897.
Strength of last week’s gas-flow
may be explained by the
temporary sealing of the gas
sand. How permanent it will
be is a matter for conjecture.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Lord Carrington, High Commissioner
for the U.K., and Lady Carrington have
been staying at Government House for
the past week, and Sydneyites have had
several opportunities to meet them at
various functions. Youthful, friendly and
witty, they themselves seem to create a
lively atmosphere wherever they go.
There was a very good attendance at
the reception given in their honor by the
conference of Empire Societies, and all
there seemed to have put on best hats
and best smiles. Regarding hats, the
white pique topper which Lady Berry-
man wore especially took the eye, as it
was a preview of the new season’s
styles. Other notable hats were the white
chrysanthemum curvette worn by Mrs.
A. L. Walters, Mrs. Gordon Johnston’s
curly-brimmed white hat, with its crown
of white roses (“the hat of the season”),
Mrs. C. M. Guiney’s pillbox of pale-
blue cornflowers, and Mrs. Bialoguski’s
wide red hat.
Official welcomers at the reception
were Mrs. H. H. McNall, the Garnet
Hallorans and the Cecil Chapmans, with
Sir James and Lady Bissett representing
the English Speaking Union. Speeches
were plentiful, perhaps a little too much
so, but Lord Carrington’s remarks were
impressive and his asides amusing. One
of the asides: “You mustn’t call anyone
a colonist these days. Colonists are
wicked, like plutocrats, and nobody has
a good word to say for them.”
* ☆ ☆
Conversation was sparkling and infor-
mative at the charming reception given
by Mr. and Mrs. Allan Williams at their
Killara home on Thursday. Many of the
75 guests had recently returned from
abroad and had interesting comments to
make.
Lady Boyer talked about India and
the color-television she had seen in
America ; artist Alice Danciger spoke of
social-life in Rome ; Mrs. Miculicic-Rodd
was most entertaining in her descriptions
of Yugoslavia, to which she paid three
visits; and Mr. Hans Tronser nearly had
one packing-up for North Queensland
with his exposition of its riches, resources
and beauty.
The High Commissioner for Ceylon,
Mr. Gunasekera, flew from Canberra for
the recepton, which was also attended by
German Consul-General Dr. Mueller,
Consul-General for China Dr. S. H. Sih,
and Mrs. Sih. The hostess wore a lovely
dress of coffee-colored lace.
Everyone will be “putting on a top-
hat” this season, for the new styles quite
outmode last year's little number. Those
who can wear a toque like the late Queen
Mary’s will have an advantage, but those
who have a Grenadier*Guardsman in the
family and can borrow his busby will
really scoop the pool.
£r * tc
Great excitement at David Jones’
Restaurant on Wednesday last, when
Australia’s first National Youth Orchestra
—75 players drawn from all States—gave
their first performance. Adelaide’s Pro-
fessor John Bishop held the baton.
Gai Tilsed, 16-year-old Sydney pianist,
was soloist in the first movement of the
Beethoven No. I Concerto. Composer
Mirrie Hyde heard her specially-written
“Happy Qccasion” Overture played for
the first time—her family, husband
Marcus Edwards, daughter Christine (7)
and son Robert (5) came along for the
happy occasion. It was probably the
first time that afternoon-tea music had
been provided by a 75-piece orchestra,
and it was all very thrilling.
Meanwhile, up in the auditorium, an
exhibition of Australiana was being
opened by American visitor Professor
Hamilton. This show would provide
browsing-material for a whole afternoon,
with its records of long-established
Sydney institutions: J. C. Williamson’s
photographs of personalities Gus Bluett,
Marie Bremner, etc. (but no Gladys
Moncneft); The Bulletin’s early manu-
scripts, cartoons and agreements; the
Bank of N.S.W.’s early bank-notes; a
working-model of condensed-milk being
made in 1860; and an invoice from
David Jones (1856) charging 2s. for
gloves, 11s. for an umbrella and 2s. lid.
for toilet-cream, are some of the
interesting items.
“Land of Smiles,” at the Empire, had
an international opening-night. The
Governor, Sir John Northcott, was there,
fhf by rs - Dot Bal1 ’ President of
the Metropolitan Operetta Society, which
pm cm the show; Lord Carrington and
Carrington (she in a short, pretty
red dress) represented the U.K. ; Mrs.
Ludwig Herzer (whose husband wrote
the book and lyrics for the Lehar music)
eame to Sydney specially for the open-
mg ; Madam Cheung Tai Kah came from
Hong Kong to see her daughter, charm-
ing Florence Pong, perform ; the Diplo-
matic and Consular Corps were well
represented France, Norway (Mrs.
Klingenberg s short black dress with its
silver bodice was notable), China, Malta
—and there was a really gala-
atmosphere.
Julia James, who is the daughter of
Australian author Florence James (co-
author with Dymphna Cusack of “Come
in Spinner ’ and “Four Winds and a
Family,” in which Julia was one of the
three heroines), has just had her own
first book published in England: “Mother
Signed the Contract ” (Peter Davies).
Julia has used her six months as a young
actress in England as material for the
book, and it should have a large audience
among dramatic aspirants. She has also
had experience in radio and TV in Eng-
land, and when she returns to Australia
in August wants to go on writing, and also
to produce, TV.
Miss Joyce McMillan, general-secretary
of Sydney Y.W.C.A., has returned after
four months of studying “Y” methods
in America. Speaking at a luncheon
given in her honor during the week she
mentioned the “Family Splash Night”
swimming-parties for Mother, Dad and
the kids, which some “Y” associations
in the U.S. arranged, and it was amusing
to hear vice-president Mrs. Latham's
remark on this idea, that it would get
the men interested in the Y.W.C.A.
“Not,” she added, “that we want to
take them away from the Y.M.C.A.
but there are so many little odd jobs
around the place that they can do.”
Mrs. Neville Harding, president of the
Sydney Y.W.C.A., was hostess at the
party.
☆ ☆ *
How to wear your hair this season will
be solved for you if you go to the party
at Prince’s today (Wednesday, March
13)'; it’s in aid of the Crippled Children’s
Society. Hair-stylists from all Australian
States will gather to prepare a Parisian
hair-style, and a French hairdresser is
to arrive two days before ; the models
will be chosen from winners in a contest
conducted over radio and TV. The haute
coiffure release is already an annual
affair, but this is the first time the
proceeds have been devoted to charity.
* ☆ ☆
Rear-Admiral W. H. Harrington (the
new Flag-Officer in Charge, East Aus-
tralian Area) and Mrs. Harrington have
moved into Tresco, the Navy’s official
residence at Elizabeth Bay, with their
young family, Sarah (10), Simon (9), Tom
(5) and Teresa (2). An Adelaide girl,
Mrs. Harrington trained as a nurse be-
fore her marriage, and was a Sister in
the Army for three-and-a-half years. She
is the daughter of Mr. Legh Winser, for-
merly secretary to several South Aus-
tralian Governers.
MELBOURNE'
One of the highlights of the Moomba
Festival was the ball at St. Kilda Palais
de Danse. At each end of the ballroom
there was a large black screen imprinted
with the Moomba motif in brilliant
colors, while round the ballroom were
clusters of balloons in tonings of black,
white and cyclamen. A cyclamen cloth,
fringed in white, covered the official
dining-table in the enclosure. Along the
edge of the table were piled bunches of
green grapes, pineapples, clusters of
green and yellow bananas and apples,
with a sprinkling of red-peppers. Black
wrought-iron candelabra bearing white
candles were set in the centre of the
table. Large white flower-filled urns
were used extensively.
The Governor and Lady Brooks, the
Premier and Mrs. Bolte, Labor and
National Service Minister Harold Holt
and Mrs. Holt, were received by the
president of the ball-committee, Mrs.
Leo Curtis, and her husband.
Lady Brooks’s lovely gown of ice-
blue tulle mounted on white had a wide,
scooped neckline and a very bouffant
skirt. With it she wore a stole of misty-
blue tulle. A strapless gown of pale-
pink lace, with matching satin swathed on
bodice and skirt, was Mrs. Bolte’s choice.
Mrs. Holt wore a full-skirted gown of
pervenche-satin, the skirt quilted and
dotted with rhinestones. Mrs. Curtis’s
white chiffons were made on Empire-
lines, with the tucked strapless bodice
carrying a cluster of pale-pink roses.
Also in the official party were Festival-
committee president Cr. W. A. Comea-
dow and his wife, Dr. and Mrs. James
Buchanan, Mrs. Norman Sheppard, and
Miss Kathleen Syme, president of the
Royal Women’s Hospital (the institution’s
cancer-equipment fund will collect fhe
profits from the ball).
Anne, elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
J. L. L’Epagniol, of Perth, and formerly
of Singapore, has just announced her
engagement to Adrian, only son of Mr.
and Mrs. George Hilford, of Glen Iris.
Educated at the Presbyterian Ladies
College, Perth, Anne is now senior
theatre-sister at Melbourne’s Prince
Henry’s Hospital. Adrian is an old Mel-
bourne Grammar boy and a graduate in
law. Anne’s ring is a diamond solitaire.
Mr. and Mrs. Trevor Clarke, of Devon
Park, Dunkeld, gave a dance in honor of
their eldest daughter, Carmen, at the
Toorak home of Carmen’s grandmother,
Mrs. Edward Shackell. In the reception-
rooms were huge bowls of pastel-toned
flowers' and bowls of white and gold
mixed flowers. There was a pink marquee
set on the terrace of the floodlit garden,
where the young guests danced,
and supper was served in a smaller
marquee. Carmen, who recently returned
from overseas, wofe a bouffant gown of
palest-blue tulle, the strapless bodice
banded with a deeper-blue velvet ribbon,
tying into a corsage of white lilac at one
side.
Another of Mrs. Shackell’s grand-
daughters, Deborah Wilkins, also made
her debut at the dance. Deborah, who is
the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Robin
Wilkins, of Merricks, wore a slim,
classical gown of cream satin-brocade
woven with a fine gold thread, and with a
band of topaz embroidery on the strap-
less bodice. Mrs. Clarke’s gown of white
guipure-lace had the slim skirt ankle-
length in front, and dipping to the floor
at the back. The bodice, mounted on
white satin, had a wide neckline, and
lace fell softly over the shoulders.
Among the many pretty girls at the
dance were Marion Gengoult Smith, wear-
ing a frock of pastel-pink organza, the
full skirt of three tiers ; Sarah Gilder,
in bouffant white laces finished with pale-
blue satin bows; Eve Grimwade, who
wore white tulle, and her sister Rosanne,
her pale-pink tulle finished with white
satin-bows; Janet Murdoch, her strap-
less gown of ice-blue satin; Posey
Baillieu, who allied a white tulle skirt
with an emerald-green taffeta strapless
top.
Among the guests were the Premier and
Mrs. Bolte, Sir Robert and Lady Knox,
Mrs. Russell Clarke, Mrs. Dolly Guy
Smith, Mrs. Sam Hordern, Mrs. Douglas
Carnegie (N.S.W.) and Mrs. P. Latham
(N.S.W.),
☆ ☆ ☆
For the Newmarket dinner-dance at
the Delphic to aid the Spastic Children
Society the decor was of Turf-motifs.
Behind the bar was a backdrop of a
racing-scene ; round the ballroom were
the heads of horses draped in well-known
racing-silks ; on each table was a silver
horseshoe crossed by a tiny leather whip,
made by the spastic children at Marathon.
Receiving the guests, the president of the
dinner-dance committee, Mrs. Lionel
Grimwade, wore a powder-blue chiffon
gown. Joan Bloomfield, one of the ticket-
secretaries, chose a frock of ice-blue
tulle, the strapless bodice finished with
beaten-silver embroideries. Mrs. John
Casson, the other ticket-secretary, wore
grey lace-patterned silk.
Among the dancers were Gillian Pain,
wearing white broderie anglaise with
black velvet threaded through the deep
square neckline and waist; Mrs. Peter
Sleigh, in a short white tulle frock, the
strapless bodice of which was banded
with turquoise-blue velvet; Mrs. Bill
Gluth, whose full-skirted frock was of
black Chantilly-lace; Mrs. Peter Grant
Hay, her choice a sheath-frock of white
French-lace ; Mrs. Laurence Simpson,
who wore powder-blue chiffons.
# # V
Noted at the late-afternoon opening
of Reshid Bey’s exhibition of paintings
at the Athenaeum Gallery:
Capt. and Mrs. Gordon Chirnside
(parents of Reshid Bey’s wife), Madame
Le Bas de Plumetot (wife of the French
consul), Paddy Wilkinson, Mrs. K. J.
Mackinnon (whose portrait was in the
exhibition) and her daughter Mrs. Max
Welsh, Lady Grimwade, Mr. and Mrs.
Bruce Mead, Mr. and Mrs. J. Bowen
Pain, Madame de Wolff, Mrs. Fred
Fair, Mrs. Dolly Guy Smith, Mrs. Harry
Bundock, and Mrs. Dorothy Gitsham.
☆ ☆ ☆
When the Young Contingent of the
Victoria League gave a cocktail-party in
the clubrooms in honor of officers from
the U.S.S. Passumpsic, U.S.S. Genesee
and H.M.A.S. Sydney, chairman Pamela
Middleton (wearing a lemon cotton frock
with a matching straw hat swathed in
white chiffon) and acting-secretaries
Barbara Hewitt and Bruce Beck received
the guests. Among those welcoming the
guests-of-honor were the senior vice-
president of the Victoria League (Mrs.
lan ( onnell) and her husband, Jeanette
Kilgour, Louise Palmer, Clarissa Starey,
Anne Grover, Beverley West and
Charmain Watt.
F ☆ ☆
A sweltering day, with threats of the
thunderstorm which came later (and,
incidentally, ruined Henley, the river-
carnival for Moomba), spoiled the
autumn fashion-parade at Flemington for
the opening of the V.R.C.’s racing
carnival. Summer frocks topped by
pretty hats won the day, but there were
a few of the new higher and harder hats,
several full-length capes, and many suits
in the new taupe shades.
Lady Brooks wore a soft powder-blue
waisted coat with a pale-pink and white
printed-silk frock and a matching blue
feather-cap. Lady Manifold, wife of the
V.R.C. chairman, wore one of the “little
black” frocks, slimly cut, with the new
slightly-bloused look, and buttoned up
the back from waist to neckline. With
it she wore a white platter-hat. Lady
Kearns’s high hat was of white curled
ostrich-feathers, and her navy nylon frock
featured floating-panels on the skirt.
Mrs. Sam Hordern (Sydney) wore a
silk suit in brown-and-white stripe, with a
white cap trimmed with white flowers.
Mrs. L. R. Buxton’s feather-cap in blue,
gold and green tonings was worn with a
navy silk-taffeta coat. Mrs. G. A. Sangster
wore over her white-spotted taupe silk
frock a velvet coat of mushroom-pink.
Diana Laurens had a cap of autumn-
leaves for her white-leaf-patterned
caramel silk frock. Barbara Brett topped
her pink-and-white candy-striped cotton
frock with a tiny upturned white hat filled
with pink flowers.


Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
L
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
Fussy birds these
l-wanters and
l-demanders
<r 7
Missing Friend
MARJORY ISABEL STEPHENS
WOULD any relatives or friends of the
above-named (also known as MADGE
ISABEL STEPHENS), who was bom at
Coogee Bay, Sydney, Australia, in 1889,
and was the daughter of ALFRED
STEPHENS and MARGARET ANN
STEPHENS, please communicate with
the PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE, Rotorua,
New Zealand.
The I-wanters we perfectly understand. We fully
appreciate the ways of the I-demanders.
We’ve equipped ourselves specifically for their
benefit and pleasure.
There’s nothing peculiar about these inveterate
air travellers, sometimes better known as Big
Shots, or V.l.P.’s. They’ve grown considerably in
numbers with the phenomenal expansion of our
industries—and of our services. They are simply
people who get things done because that’s what
they are equipped to do. They’re the people
who produce the goods.
They’re trained in the supplying of the wants of
a nation, in acceding to the demands of circum-
stance. They are the people who organise and
direct supply and production to satisfy and please
the wants and demands of millions.
Just as we do.
They want, because they give, a lot of service.
They demand, because they give, every efficiency,
Because like attracts like, these people fly only
where they can enjoy their travelling in an
atmosphere of reciprocal efficiency, comfort,
courtesy. They fly Qantas.
QANTAS
AUSTRALIA’S OVERSEAS AIRLINE
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED (inc. in Q’land.)
IN ASSOCIATION WITH 8.0.A.C. AND TEAL
Q 6.82.46
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“All For Mary”
Somewhere, one suspects,
there’s a recipe-book for this
kind of thing—a handy volume
of reliable confections to be
whipped-up from stock in-
gredients when guests turn-up
unexpectedly, or when the cat
gets the steak after the butcher
is closed.
In this case, the reciple prob-
ably goes:
Jolly good farce (economical
—one set, small cast) for making
people laugh :
(a) Husband: solid stodgy
type from Stoke Poges on Trent
who likes nothing better than
36 holes of golf in a day.
(b) Wife: glamor job who
likes Alpine and other sports.
(c) Her first husband: dash-
ing type who marries for money.
(d) Teeth-flashing French
hotel-owner-manager with an
Anglophile complex.
(e) Shrewd old nurse who can
run everything and fix anything.
Take an Alpine ski-resort to
which husband has been reluc-
tantly dragged by wife; bring
husband out in rash of spots and
confine to attic of hotel so as
not to scare other guests ; infect
first husband with spots and
add him to attic, being careful
that for a start neither recog-
nises the other, or the “stuffed
shirt,” “the bitch” and “the
rotter” in their recounting of
their respective matrimonial
histories.
Put both in charge of old
Nannie, who treats them like
naughty boys, and whose vocabu-
lary consists of practically every
cliche that was ever levelled at
recalcitrant brats; have hotel-
manager assume personal respon-
sibility for. seeing that the wife
enjoys her ski-ing.
Stir well, add sundry popular
seasonings (whatever’s on the
shelf will do) and serve with
reliable cast in comfortable
theatre to a well-fed audience
that wants to be entertained.
You can’t miss.
The recipe in this case is
attributed to Harold Brooke and
Kay Bannerman and the
theatre is Sydney Royal. Chief
cook is producer William Rees,
who knows how to do this sort
of thing—and much more sub-
stantial fare—to a turn, and
does it.
The cast —Kevin Brennan,
Guy Doleman, Margo Lee,
Murielle Hearne, Ron Folkard
and Anthony Ward —are as
reliable as anyone could wish
for, with Brennan, as the hus-
band, rolling his Bottom and his
Humpty Dumpty into one, and
with Miss Hearne, as Nannie,
making a bird of the role which
carries most of the laughs.
♦Jf
“Look Back in Anger”
The title of this bitter play by
John Osborne, put on by the
Union Theatre Repertory
Company at the University of
Melbourne, sums-up the play.
Everybody looks back in anger.
Colonel Redfern looks back in
anger on his own remissness in
permitting the marriage of his
niece to that peflniless no-ho r
Jimmy Porter when he might
have taken her to the Riviera
and married her to an Italian
count and a castle.
Alison, his niece, looks back
in rage and fury on the time
when she deemed the impossible
Jimmy to be an Ivanhoe, a knight
in shining armor who was going
to rescue her from the dragon
of her tradition, and she irons
his shirts in sullen anger. Her
friend Helena comes into the
household to rescue Alison
from the ineffable Jimmy and
ends up by pinching the husband
from the wife, thus gaining
the exclusive right of ironing
Jimmy’s trousers and being his
new target.
From the depths of an easy-
chair Jimmy looks back on
everything in anger, including the
love he once had for his wife,
on his own charm, which has got
him into endless pickles, and on
life, which has landed him, a
brilliant university product, into
the proprietorship of a one-
room flat and sweetshop and a
browbeaten wife who irons his
trousers.
It is Sunday afternoon, and
there is nothing to do but read
the Sunday papers. He is the
vocal type of self-pitier and has
the stage to himself, spending
three acts and five scenes in
drowning his wife in his own
self-pity, interspersed with
violence which she likes better
than indifference and better than
the tender deference of Cliff,
her other lover.
It is not a pleasant play, but
it is a true one and very
uncomfortable for anybody who
could see himself or herself in it.
It was also remarkably well
acted and produced by Alan
Burke. Frederick Parslow’s
portrayal of Jimmy, sustained
through a long evening, was
painfully real; Zoe Caldwell was
a burning brand of suppressed
resentment as Alison ; and Joan
Harris was all cold hate as
Helena. As the simple Cliff,
Edward Webster was excellent.
♦{t -tj* ti*
“Land of Smiles”
Operettas —which are really
musicomedies given a shot of
grand-opera blue-blood are
rarely notable for comedy, and
Franz Lehar’s “Land of Smiles,”
presented by the Metropolitan
Operetta Society at Sydney
Empire, is no exception—though
John Bluthal, as Rudi, the
lieutenant who can’t do a thing
right, was sufficiently dithering
and gauche.
There was some unrehearsed
fun on the opening night, how-
ever. Within a couple of minutes
of curtain-rise something went
wrong with the starboard
section of the walrus-mo worn
by John Dudley, as Count
Lichtenfels, and in half-a-mo
he was left with half a mo, and
there’s nothing funnier than that,
except, perhaps the shifts the
actor was put to to dissemble
the fact that he was so bereft.
In all other respects the pro-
duction went smoothly. Dress-
ing was stylish, and the massed
tumbling at the start of the
second act had precision and
punch. Lehar’s tuneful score,
an admixture of Occidental and
Oriental idioms, was handled by
Ivan Rixon and his orchestra
with a reasonably good balance
held between the choirs, and the
singers were at no time chal-
lenged to a tonal battle.
Nina Cooke was vivacious and
sang spiritedly as the Viennese
who takes a dim view of her
Chinese husband co-opting the
services of a quartet of Chinese
wives without so much as a by-
your-leave. Florence Pong was
a dainty Mi, but her light
soprano wasn’t well served by
diction. Allan Ferris, rather
W'ooden as Prince Sou-Chong
and looking sufficiently quarter-
caste to make his ancestors
gloom in the tomb, made good
use of his top register, and his
enunciation was unexception-
able. Neil Easton 9ang Gust! in
a sturdy baritone.
The small volume of the
choruses was well-disciplined.
£4
John Limpus
At his recital at Sydney Con.
before leaving for study in
Vienna, Sydney baritone John
Limpus gave clear proof of a
voice of good quality over a
reasonably extensive range,
although it still to acquire
full resonance.
The singer showed a keen
interpretative sense in Beet-
hoven’s fine song-cycle, “To the
Distant Beloved,” and in eight
songs from “Leiderkreis,” Op.
39. The songs in this last
group, representing Schumann
at his most subtle, are a
challenge to the full equip-
ment, vocal and intellectual,
of the singer ; there is far more
below than above the surface.
Limpus’s delicate handling of
them, particularly his use of the
half-voice in the fourth and
seventh songs (“Moonlight and
“Melancholy”) was admirable.
He also showed, in a group of
early Italian songs by Cacchini
and Caldara, that he has a
smooth legato. Dorothy White’s
accompaniments were instinct
with taste and refinement;
the Oriana Singers were the
assisting artists.
❖ ❖ »>
“Happy As Larry”
Canberra Rep.’s current offer-
ing is Donagh Macdonaugh’s
brilliant comedy “Happy As
Larry,” about an Irish grand-
father who had two wives, one
good and one bad—all told in
lilting verse and flashing wit
and bringing a lighthearted and
homely warmth to the great
themes of love and death.
A singularly successful rakish-
ness was given by Norman
Phillips to the part of Larry,
and Paul Krieg struck an
authentic note as the lugubrious
grave-digger.
The production as a whole,
however, overlooked some of
the comedy-element, and this,
at times, particularly affected the
work of Joy Warren, as Mrs.
Larry, and Harald Brokenshire,
as the Doctor.
The combination of brogue
and verse, of wide-ranging ideas
and pithy expression, made it
difficult to convey every line to
the audience ; a highlighting of
key-lines would have helped to
bring out the main ideas and
trace a thread through the
unusual turns of the story.
The play was produced by
Anne Godfrey-Smith with good
atmospheric effects in the Fates
scene; the settings were by
Barbara Shanahan.
J.M.G.
Talkies
“Anastasia” (Sydney Century):
This distingushed piece of film-
craft, by director Anatole Litvak,
is based on the attempt to legalise
the claim that one member of
the Tsar’s family, Princess
Anastasia, survived the Bol-
shevik massacre. The film is
developed with logic and speed
and has first-class dialogue.
Ingrid Bergman’s performance
as the pretender to the f 10-
million inheritance is wholly
admirable, as is that of Yul
Brynner, as the White Russian
General who knew the Imperial
family and who grooms the
Paris waif for her claim to
Royalty. Another splendid
performance is given by Helen
Hayes, as the shrewd, lonely old
Dowager Empress.
“Lust For Life” (Sydney
Liberty): Irving Stone’s novel on
the life of Vincent van Gogh
comes vividly to life in this
screen-play by Norman Corwin.
The color-cameras, compare the
landscapes of southern France,
where the painter spent his last
years, with scores of his
canvases. Director Vincent
Minelli, who has treated the
subject with sincerity and
sympathy, is well served by Kirk
Douglas, as van Gogh, artd
Anthony Quinn, as Gauguin.
“B eyo n d A Reasonable
Doubt” (Sydney Esquire): A
suspense-thriller of some power
and originality, well-served by
three able players and directed
with subtlety by Fritz Lang.
Dana Andrews, author and
journalist, agrees to be the
guinea-pig for a crime-experi-
ment to further the campaign of
a newspaper-owner against
capital punishment where con-
viction is based on circumstantial
evidence. They “plant” evidence
which will certainly convict
Andrews as the killer in a
murder-case which is baffling the
police; after his conviction, and
just before he is to go to the
electric-chair, his boss will pro-
duce the framed evidence.
Things don’t work out according
to Hoyle, and the twist-ending
is good.
Sydney Blackmer is the news-
paper-owner and Joan Fontaine
the journalist’s fiancee whose
sharp observation leads to an
arresting climax.
“Between Heaven and Hell”
(Sydney Mayfair): Story of an
outpost unit and guerrilla warfare
against the Japs on a Pacific
island. The snobbish scion of a
Deep South cotton family
improves notably in the day-to-
day struggle to survive alongside
men from all walks of life.
Combat-scenes are briskly effec-
tive, there is a leavening of
humor, and Robert Wagner, as
the central character, manages
the gradual change-of-heart with
conviction. Best work is done
by Broderick Crawford as a
brutal captain who has been
passed-over for promotion and
takes it out on his men.
“Bandido” (Sydney Plaza):
Dreary doings during a Mexican
uncivil war, with Robert
Mitchum, as an adventurer,
barging into the confused plot
whenever the greasies wake up
to resume the stoush.


The Big Burn
By BRIAN JAMES
* 4 “O § om > k ut it’s the sort
|-< of weather too for it —
I J if you’re asking me.”
Mr. Septimus Coventry
was in one of his rare pontifical
moods.
“You reckon, Septic?” asked
one of the men.
“Alec, I sure do. I’m telling
you. I remember once in a
summer like this . . .” His voice
trailed low into a distant and
stirring reminiscence.
It was after tea at Dunstan’s
big place at Breakfast Creek.
Right in the middle of the sand-
stone country, the hard, ridgy
plateau like the Blue Mountains
in miniature.
The Dunstans after two years
at Breakfast Creek were still
“those new people on Lousy
Goodlett’s place.” They would
always be those new people.
They didn’t “belong.” He was
a retired bank-manager, an
amiable, fussy, useless old fellow
of seventy or so. She was a
well - preserved, discontented
forty—or thereabouts —and ran
the place, and her husband, and
anyone, or anything, else that
might happen to be around. She
was “just a bitch —but not half
bad-looking” ; so the men of the
district summed her up. Their
womenfolk agreed—except for
the good looks.
The Dunstans were not
popular; too damned superior.
In fact, they were hated. People
might have put up with Jrim.
But her! It was difficult to
mention her or work for her
without stoning the bloody
crows. To make things worse she
didn’t mind being hated. Seemed
proud of it really. No locals,
except Mr. Coventry, would
work for her. Just now, however,
she had a gang of four, roped
in through the Labor Bureau, to
shift the big crop of summer
lemons. Breakfast Creek, in
spite of its barren, hungry sand-
stone, grew wonderful citrus.
That is, between the ridges where
the soil was deep enough.
Although Mr. Coventry was a
local, he didn’t quite belong,
either. He was unpopular, but in
a * different way from the
Dunstans. Perhaps the subtle
shadings between the district’s
epithets for him of the “old
cow” and “that old swine”
indicated something of his
character. There was the
thoughtful addition . too of
“biggest bloody old liar of any
man I know.” This was identifi-
cation running to luxuries, as it
were. But in personal communi-
cation he was “Septic,” a con-
venient rendering of Septimus,
with a rather clever suggestion
of something else. The Dunstans
called him “Mr. Coventry.” But
in private Mrs. Dunstan said he
was a filthy old fellow, and
stupid and ignorant. Especially
at after the last election, when
he had declared his political
attitude: “Give the Doc. a
chance, I say. We’ve had Bob
long enough.”
/”)LD Septic, to choose the
least offensive of his appella-
tions, had the small orchard
next door. Not much of a place ;
a bit of orchard and a few fowls,
a cow, a horse, and a blue cattle-
dog. And a short stoutish wife
with a very red face. She was
full of years and complaining.
But Septic was fairly well-in
for all that: had a pension from
the Railways, where he had been
a ganger ; he had always been
saving ; and now he had a more
or less permanent job with the
Dunstans. He could work for
the Dunstans without loss of
prestige; he had practically
none to lose.
The fact of his having been
on the Railways, and a ganger
at that, must be emphasised. It
was a large part of his per-
sonality to say naught of his
appearance. The battered round
hat, well down over his grey-
green eyes, the blackened pipe
that scarcely ever left his mouth,
the nondescript cardigan or
waistcoat that he wore at all
seasons, were all distinctly
individual, and yet badges too of
his past calling. The effect was
heightened by his gnarled and
unsymmetrical figure running to
a queer half-paunchiness that
seemed .to spell the very word
ganger.
He hated Mrs. Dunstan in a
flat, dull sort of way, but it
suited him to work for her—
basic wage and a bit over. And
he didn’t let the work kill him
at all, nor did he allow her to
kill his spirit of independence.
She, on the other hand, kept
him on, without ever giving
herself a satisfactory reason for
doing so. Perhaps because he
was the last remaining link with
the little world around her, and a
local contact that might be useful
at times.
TT had been a hot day, the hard
* dry heat that had months
of drought behind it. The sun
had glared red in a sky murky
with dust and haze and smoke.
Bushfire weather.
That is why old Septic had
come back after tea. It was an
excuse too for a yarn with the
men; he was fond of company
in a limited way, and his old
woman wasn’t much company
now —hadn’t been ever, when he
came to think of it.
The men had come over from
the little cottage where they
batched. And .Mr. and Mrs.
Dunstan had come out of the
house in a vain quest for cool
night air, and to discuss the red
and evil glow in the western
sky. A long way off it was,
twenty miles at least, but
ominous.
It was bushfire weather all
right, and Septic again said it
was. “All the country here-
abouts,” he added, “as dry as
tinder.”
That was true enough. The
thin, hard growth of the sand-
stone was always like tinder in
a hot summer. Every year some
of it burnt out, little patches of
it, but it was checked mostly
before it got going properly. And
then every seven or eight years
there was a complete fire that left
the landscape a black and
smouldering desert. A picture of
desolation; nothing could ever
grow again. But the sandstone
is not so easily disheartened. It
patiently sets to work at rehabili-
tation, and in seven years or so
is ready for the next big burn.
“Don’t ’ you think, Mr.
Coventry, that we ought to burn-
back to make the place safe?”
Mrs. Dunstan couldn’t think
of a fire even without wanting
to manage it. And she deferred
to Septic on account of his local
knowledge.
Old Septic spat at nothing in
particular in the hot brittle
darkness. Ahd in a colorless way
asked, “Why?”
“I thought . . . isn’t it usual?
A precaution, you know.”
“It is, and it isn’t. It might be
and it mightn’t. • Just depends.
I’ve seen some pretty nasty fires
started by this burning-back
business? Still . . .”
“Yes?”
“You’re pretty safe here,
from that fire over there.. She’s
in the State Forest I reckon. A
long way that, and there’s the
Casey-country in between.”
“Couldn’t it cross that?”
“No fire has ever done that
that I know of. It’s your best
break.”
r F'HE Casey-country was a gash
in the sandstone a few miles
to westward. A real canyon,
long and winding, with seven
hundred feet of craggy walls.
From above it was a fearsome
gulf, yet filled with a dim blue
goodness that turned to violet
or purple in the evenings. It
contrasted with the hard
monotony of the plateau. Below,
on its floor, were farms and green
pastures and a small, clear
stream. No fire had ever gone
through the Casey-country, fill it
as it might With threat and
smoke.
“But couldn’t a fire cut
round the to'p-end, Septic?”
It was the man called Alec.
He had worked in the sandstone-
country before.
“Fires,” said Mr. Coventry,
“are only really bad when there’s
a stiff westerly. Any other
winds don’t matter so much. A
bad westerly is different.”
As he spoke, as if his voice
had wakened it, there was a stir
in the air about them. It rustled
the stiff leaves in the scribbly-
gums and stringies that fringed
the house on one side, sighed in
the stunted sheoaks, barely
shrilled in the break of pines, and
then went to sleep again. A
wandering breeze, walking in its
sleep as it were. Meaningless as
winds go, but serving as a grim
reminder of the terrible westerly.
“Nothing to it,” said Mr.
Coventry, voicing the fears of
the others.
No one else said anything.
They were watching that wide
dull glow in the west. An evil
glow, but grandly evil.
Mr. Coventry rubbed his back
against a veranda-post; knocked
out his pipe on his heel, and said
“Oh, well.” Which meant he was
preparing to depart.
“And you don’t think, then,
that it will come here?” asked
Mrs. Dunstan.
“You can sleep sound on that.”
Mrs. Dunstan thought it
rather an indelicate way of
putting it; from that old coot,
anyway ; but it was reassuring,
too.
“But there have been fires
around here, haven’t there?”
“Of course there have —bad
ones, too. But they haven’t
come across the Casey-country.
That’s the point. By gom, but I
can remember . . .”
His voice trailed off again as
though the reminiscences were
too sacred or awful to express.
“Yes?”
“Aw, nothing. You can sleep
sound, I’m telling you.”
The party broke up. With
more or less perfunctory goofl-
nights. The four chaps from the
cottage clomped and stumbled
down the rutty track, kicking
now and then against the exposed
roots of the trees that lined it.
Indeterminate scraps of talk
from them as they went, about as
meaningless as that stray breeze
of half-an-hour ago.
Mr. Coventry went home.
IN the morning early a stiff
breeze blew up over the
sandstone. No stray wandering
gust, this, but something
determined and permanent, and
straight from the nor’-west. It
had fire on its breath. And the
air was full of smoke and the
acrid scents of burning leaves.
“By gom, but . . Mr.
Coventry stopped to light his
Pipe- . , .
Had there been a mistake in
the theory about the Casey-
country, or had a fire started this
side of it? And how could that
be? But then, the origin of
most bushfires is more or less
a great Australian mystery.
His own place was safe
enough, as safe as a place could
be, but in a really big burn that
place of Lousy Goodlett’s . . .
A bit different, that. Better go
over and see.
There was no affection for the
Dunstans in this resolution, nor
any sense of loyalty or duty. Mr.
Coventry couldn’t quite explain
to himself why he should go.
“Maudie!” he called to his
wife, who so resembled an
inexpertly-made dumpling.
“Maudie, I’m going over to the
Dunstans.”
“Oh, are you? Might as well.”
The inference plainly was that
the husband of all these days
would be as useless there as he
was anywhere else. It didn’t
matter. But, just the same, it
wasn’t quite a fair estimate.
By the time Mr. Coventry
arrived at the Dunstans the wind
was a gale, bending down the
tall dark pines, tearing dry bark
and branch from the gums. And
the family of Dunstans was in
panic, Mrs. Dunstan at last
finding something too big to
manage.
“I thought you said” she
shrieked at Mr. Coventry.
But he calmly ignored her. He
was an entirely new Mr.
Coventry, and he took charge
of the situation.
“Minto,” he said to the
Dustans’ oldest boy, a lad of
nineteen, “get the car out and
bring her round.”
Minto went off, glad perhaps
to have a definite order.
“Alec,” said Mr. Coventry,
“I’m sending them all off, except
Minto, to Hattersley.”
“You think then. . .?”
“Too right. Lucky if we save
the place at all. That stupid
bitch’ll queer up everything if
we leave her about —and the
old goat . . .”
"M'OT much time to lose. In an
ordinary fire there would be
no great danger to the Dunstan
home, but when west or nor’-
west has fire in its breath the
tree-tops burst into flames. In
fact, the tops burn far in
advance of the ground-fire and
defy all human effort.
And a grand and terrible sight
it is—fascinating as large-scale
destruction can be. > Man has
always conjured in his imagina-
tion a vision of the end of the
world, the grandest sight of all,
and fire is the agent of destruc-
tion. Not quite an idle fancy


, v
INTERNATIONAL LIGHTWEIGHT
TRUCKS TO MATCH YOUR JOBS'
PANEL : Much more clear carrying space
than a merely modified passenger car.
x n
s
w mm
V
■
UTILITY: International AS-110, AS-112 Utility
in 12 cwt. and IS cwt. capacities. A real truck—
not just a converted passenger car.
►
■
m
-
TRAY BODY : Solid tray-bodies are available
to fit all the lightweight International chassis.
►
DROP-SIDES : Champion of the I ton cap-
acity class. The International AS-120 is available
in 115 in. and 127 in. wheelbase.
stmiiiiifi
*
m
s
mm
m
PICK-UP : All-steel pick-up body mounted on
International AS-110, 15 cwt. Available in 115
and 127 in.
There are plenty of reasons why these
International lightweights will do a better
trucking job for you. They are built in
Australia to meet our particular operating
conditions. Their Australian Black Dia-
mond engines deliver more usable power at economical r.p.m. Driver-designed cabs have every
facility for operator comfort.
International trucks are “all-truck built”—-no compromise with “beefed-up” car parts. They are
backed by complete parts and service facilities throughout Australia.
Why not call at the International Harvester office in your State or your nearest I.H. Dealer and
see for yourself.
■
ALL TRUCK BUILT TO SAVE YOU THE BIG MONEY
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
FMT-747/36
either: “When the world shall
be destroyed by fire . . .” And
here it was, right upon them
now.
It seemed natural that Mr.
Coventry should take charge. He
was the ganger again, dealing
with a sudden emergency, with
the satisfying feeling that only
he could deal with it. In truth,
he was enjoying himself. For
one long moment Mrs. Dunstan’s
instinct for management made
her dispute Mr. Coventry's
authority. But the fine, stately,
self-possessed, woman grew
hysterical, and was not a pretty
sight.
Mr. Coventry said something,
snappy beyond his usual drawl,
that sounded like “great useless
bitch of a woman!” But the
roar of wind and fire and the
confusion of smoke and heat
might easily have distorted the
words.
“Get going!” he ordered Mr.
Dunstan. “Hudson! Family!
Drive like hell for Crackpott!
Hattersley! You’ve only minutes
to get away. We’ll try to save
vou> house. Might. But I don’t
think so.”
Mr. Dunstan did as he was
told, Mrs. Dunstan shrieked
hysterically, but she and little
Galahad, who was only two,
piled into the car just the same.
“Knock her on the head if
she plays up! Spanner! Tyre-
lever! Anything!” Mr.
Coventry’s words sounded some-
thing like that.
The car drove off. That left
Mr. Coventry, the four men, and
Minto to fight the fire. And the
weapons were the big spraying-
unit with its powerful pump, a
stirrup-pump and a shoulder-
spray. They didn’t look very
formidable against such an
enemy, but finely-sprayed water
is wonderfully effective in
quenching fire.
of a general,
Mr. Coventry marshalled
his small force to best advantage:
“Minto” (“You useless animal!”
—under his breath) “you keep
that big spray going on the house
—keep it soaked. And the gutter-
ings, too, all choked up with
leaves.” (“That’s management
for you!”)
Two of the men had the
smaller sprays and the other two
were to keep up the supply of
water. A pile of blankets was
soaked, “just in case,” as Mr.
Coventry put it.
There was plenty of water;
the galvanised tanks were about
half full, and the underground
had a fair supply. But none of
it was very quickly available.
So every container possible had
been filled, oil-drums, kerosene-
tins and so forth, and placed in
handy position. All had been
done with an expedition that
might have seemed foreign to
Mr. Coventry’s nature and
training. If there is such a thing
as rising to the occasion he
certainly was doing it now.
He drew a sort of “Brisbane
Line” across the place. “We
can only save the house—
packing-shed and the rest can
take their chance. So can the
cottage.”
In a matter of minutes the fire
swept over the last low ridge. A
ragged fringe of stringies and
scribbly-gums, which had looked
like the tousled, unkempt hair on
an old man’s head, was to be
seen dimly through the smoke
one instant, the next it was
swallowed-up in a flying sheet
of flame.
“Here she comes!” said Mr.
Coventry in strangely quiet
tones, yet loud enough to be
heard. “Now stick to it, and keep
those sprays going.”
Through and over the thin
timber leapt the flames. The
breath of the scorching wind
seemed to make the trees, how-
ever isolated, burst into fire.
Foliage and branch dissolved in
it in one terrible moment. Blazing
bark and leaves flew upward and
forward. And lagging behind
came the ground-fire, in fearful
lust licking up the coarse
tussocks of reedy grass, the
scant, low scrub and under-
growth, fallen leaves and
rubbish. And even the bare
ground seemed to burn. It was
all or/e to this insatiable monster.
Infinitely malicious.
With a terrible roar the battle-
charge of flames was upon them,
over them and beyond, leaping
the road, roaring louder than
ever in the big patch of scrub on
the other side. ' There was no
sunlight now, only the fierce
flames ominously smothered in
smoke. There was no air, only
the bitter suffocation of smoke.
But the men, wrapped in wet
blankets, stuck, to it.
And Mr. Coventry moved
from point to point, ordering
and encouraging, as a good
general should, who is but a
ganger after all on a big scale.
Twice the house caught, but
Mr. Coventry was there to see
that these sorties were frustrated.
How anything could escape
destruction seemed a miracle.
The big packing-shed on the
right was a mass of flame, and
so was the machinery- and
fertiliser-shed on the left. The
little cottage no doubt was burn-
ing too. It was impossible to
see so far through the smoke.
But the house was safe now.
The fight had been won. The
men looked like scarecrows,
grimy, red-eyed and not an
eyebrow left among the lot of
them. The wild upsurge of relief,
the wild release of emotion was
theirs. Triumph over danger
bravely passed made them talk.
“Gawd,” said one of them,
“but I hope the pubs in
Hattersley escaped the fire.”
The others laughed loudly in
nerve-tensed mirth, as men do
in such circumstances, and spoke
6f beer —great long cool
schooners of beer. Beer by the
bucket. Beer by the cask. And
all hoped that one bloody pub
at least had escaped the fire.
In their way they were heroes,
but rather inclined to look on
themselves as mugs, as heroes
often do. Mr. Coventry summed
it up thus without particular
regard for Minto's feelings.
“Well, we’ve saved the old goat’s
place for him!”
Perhaps he wondered too why
he had saved the old goat’s
place at all. Certainly not out of
affection and loyalty.
COME distance away a cow
bellowed, down in a small
hollow' where a patch of red and
white clover had beea| carefully
raised for pasture. They hadn’t
thought of the cow, her safety
and her feelings.
“By gom, but that bloody
cow! ” said Mr.' Coventry.
“Forgot all about her—wonder
how she’s fetching along.”
“I’ll go, Mr. Coventry.”
“You won’t, Minto. You’re
all-in. Just stay here. Anyway,
you’ve got to stand to that pump
a while yet.”
There was recognition in this
that young Minto had grown,
in that last terrible half-hour,
into a man. Not a very tough
one certainly, and lacking in the
higher qualities of Mr. Coventry
himself. But still a man.
Mr. Coventry strode off to see
to that flaming cow. His old
round hat was more disgraceful
than ever, but his pipe looked no
whit the worse. There was
almost a swagger in his walk.
Alec called out “Watch out,
Septic! ”
Mr. Coventry didn’t reply.
It was as hot as Hades, and
the smoke was thick enough for
that place, too. But the real
danger was over. In his heavy
military-boots (from Disposals)
he tramped over the charred
and smouldering ground. The
Old Cow, the Old Swine, the
Biggest Liar!
The men, as they watched
him striding off, forgot these
current local terms, if they had
ever used them much, in a deal
of admiration for the old ex-
ganger. Even something of
affection for him.
“Septic’s all right,” one of
them said-. “Say what they like,
he’s a decent old bastard.’
It was a high testimonial.
The biggest of all the scribbly-
gums, a gnarled old thing that
had known its first fire a century
or two before Breakfast Creek
was known and named, stood by
the track and leaned right over
like a grotesque-arch. Half of its
trunk was dead and blazing
fiercely. As Mr. Coventry
passed under this wide arch the
old tree crashed down without
warning. It fairly caught Mr.
Coventry in its fall, so suddenly
that there wasn’t time for one
brief involuntary yell.
The men heard the crash and
wondered. The smoke was too
thick to see what had happened.
Alec roared into the wind, “Are
you all right, Septic?”
There was no answer. But
Septic could easily have missed
hearing. They called again. And
still no reply.
HPHEN they went and found
A him ;so badly crushed under
the heavy trunk that there could
be no possible doubt of his
condition. They worked like
demons to get him free, with axe
and lever. With their hands they
put out the smouldering of waist-
coat and trousers.
The youngest of them picked
up the battered old greasy hat
and the everlasting pipe. There
was an unburnt stump near by.
With all-unconscious humor he
put the hat on top of the stump
and thrust the pipe-stem into
some sort of grub-hole beneath
it. And the stump looked just
like old Septic. Startlingly like
him; while old Septic didn’t
look like himself any more—
just a crushed thing that they
laid on a sandy patch, of
ground.
PY KORRY
Saw a huge rump, py korry,
getting in a taxi door.
"Be happy or you’ll be sorry /”
Saw a great slab of modern car
driven by a Pakeha,
and the back was filled, py korry,
with thirty stone of laughing
Maori.
A third was trying to climb in.
No fear !
with his arms about a dozen of
beer.
Saw a huge rump, py korry,
getting in a taxi door.
‘‘Be happy or you’ll be sorry !’’
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


Low's
Autobiography
Hitler is a little astray at first in catching the drift of David
Low’s cartoons . . . then all Low’s work is banned in both
Germany and Italy ... A spot of diplomatic dudgeon
over Low’s dog ... a little bother, too, over his anti-
Franco cartoons . . . characteristically revealing word-
picture of Stanley Baldwin . . . The true history of the
birth, christening and early life of Colonel Blimp.
19
o Continued)
j|N 1929 Lloyd George commented
I publicly that ten years had left
j in Britain only a glamorous
| memory of the war.
No Englishman, he went on,
had written even approximate
truth about it. That had re-
mained for veterans of other nations.
“A quarter of the daily press of Lon-
don seem to have undertaken to prove
Lloyd George right,” said the New York
“Herald-Tribung.” “They seem to be
riding a wave of reaction against realistic
war stories —and at least by implication
against the correlated peace-
campaigning.”
Various instances of romantic treat-
ment were given, mostly in the Kipling
tradition of “the thin red line of ’eroes.”
Ponderous organs of conservative tradi-
tion came to the defence of war as fought
by Englishmen. Popular newspapers
printed side-splitting tales from the
trenches to show that it had even its
funny side.
This was a drift of feeling which invited
an astringent cartoon, so I made one, “The
Rehabilitation of Mars” (2/12/1929).
It showed, against a shop full of
unromantic war-books, a bemedalled
donkey leading a procession of two beefy
military figures bearing shoulder-high a
burlesque classical God of War powder-
ing his nose, accompanied by a red-faced
would-to-god gent, and a boy selling
newspapers billing “Jokes About the
Late Good-humored War,” followed by
a mixed crowd of foolish-faced persons
carrying banners with captions signifying
their opinions that war was gentlemanly
and sporting, neither so bloody nor so
muddy as had been reported.
THAT did it! My heavenly choir of
critics broke out into the liveliest
reaction on record. All the anti-
disarmers seemed to be readers of the
“Evening Standard.”
Perhaps the cumulative effect of
previous cartoons much more direct in
debunking the romance of war had
brought irritation to the boil over this
one.
The point of “The Rehabilitation” was
simple enough, and I had underlined its
specific application to the prevailing
fashion in war-books in an explanatory
caption. Sometimes, however, the
impact of a picture on an overheated
mind produces a myopic condition in
which the meaning, clear at a lower
temperature, becomes completely
obscured by emotional associations. “A
Low insult to. the King’s Uniform.”
“This blackguardly suggestion of the mad-
ness of all patriots who did their duty
in the war.” The imagination of one
writer went so far as to identify the
medals on the donkey’s breast with a
separate denunciation on account of each
one.
My careful explanation that the
donkey symbolised not ex-Servicemen,
“but the movement towards the glorifica-
tion of war as war.... [which] to my
mind is the sort of tendency that is suit-
ably represented in cartoons as asinine,”
was ignored.
Many of the published interpretations
and descriptions were $o twisted and
grotesquely unlike my original as to be
unrecognisable. One correspondent with
more wit than was usual among my
hostile chorus summed-up the adverse
view on a postcard:
You are so Low you would have to go to
hell in a balloon.
‘TpHE world had changed. Japan was
n eating-up China, and Hitler had
taken over Germany.
The emergence of Mussolini had given
the men of force (as opposed to the men
of persuasion) encouragement and
cohesion, as much for his castor-oil
methods of dealing with his politicians at
home as for his strong-arm treatment of
the League.
Here was the Man of Force triumphant.
With his aggressive deportment, his shout
and his rolling- eye, what an impressive
contrast to the futile mumblings of the
League, the delays of the democracies!
To the child-minds obviously II Duce
was patriotism, devotion to country,
THE REHABILITATION OF MARS
(As here related, this London “Evening Standard” cartoon provoked quite
an uproar.)
efficiency, order incarnate. A Strong
Hand at the Helm. Pity we didn’t have
one like him here, old boy.
The British Fascist Party (playfully
known by the meaningful initials the
B.F.s) was comparatively insignificant
until Mosley took over its leadership.
Mosley was young, energetic, capable and
an excellent speaker. Since I had met
him in 1925 he had graduated from close
friendship with MacDonald to a job in
the second Labor Government; but he
had become disgusted with the evasions
over unemployment and had resigned to
start a party of his own.
Unfortunately at the succeeding general
elections he fell ill with influenza and his
party-in-embryo, deprived of his brilliant
talents, was wiped out. Mosley was too
ambitious to retire into obscurity. Look-
ing around for a “vehicle,” he united
himself to the 8.F., rechristened “the
Blackshirts,,” and acquired almost auto-
matically the encouragement of Britain’s
then biggest daily newspaper, the “Daily
Mail,” which was more than willing to
extend its admiration for the Italian
original to the local imitation.
That was a fateful influenza-germ.
BY the time Hitler came along in 1933
there was in Britain a fairly active
minority of men of force complete with
powerful press-support and the beginnings
of a private army.
It was not surprising that in these
moving circumstances my own post-bag
from hostile readers of my cartoons in
the “Evening Standard” picked-up again,
ranging from the discursive (“As a
businessman I feel it my duty to ask
whether Low’s cartoon is calculated to
improve our relations with Germany”)
to the inarticulate (my own cartoons sent
back to me with “Liar” or “Lowest of
the Low” scrawled across them) and
including my own particular regular
panel of castigators: from Lord Alfred
Douglas, who peppered the “Evening
Standard” with letters about me so
violently insulting as to defeat their
writer’s offensive purpose and cause only
amusement, to Lucy Houston, “Lucy” to
all, who continually assaulted me with
“poems” of calypso quality written in
mauve ink, following, up any one which
she thought might have been too strong
with a box of cigars to mitigate the hurt.
She liked her picture in the paper.
I had not yet invented Colonel Blimp, but
Lucy was his premature female counter-
part.
When I told her she had no policy at
all—just Rule-Britannia-and-Damn-the-
Details —she was delighted, and adopted
what I had .intended as a rebuke for the
slogan of the poor old “Saturday Review,”
which in its old age had become her
property.
And there was also a demented female
who identified herself with “Joan Bull,”
a figure I had created to represent the
modem British Young .Woman. When-
ever I put Joan in the paper she wrote
threatening to sue me for libel.
To her, the dictators appeared in the
light only of avengers of her fancied
wrong, very properly advancing to wipe
me off the face of the earth.
EVIDENCE on the whole confirmed the
presence of more fans for the older
established firm of Mussolini and Fascism
than for Hitler and Nazism. And at
first defence of the latter came not from
Nazis but from dupes of Nazis, usually
upbraiding me in terms of pseudo-
morality for my lack of generosity, trust
and pacific spirit.
People who had been coy about shak-
ing hands with German Democracy now
appeared in the role of peacemakers, all
for forgiving and forgetting, ready to
clasp the hands of Nazi leaders as fellow-
soldiers.
One respected general actually collected
the German drums “taken as souvenirs”
by the British in the First World War and
restored them with great ceremonial as
a token of comradeship.
A retired diplomat wrote to tell me he
knew for certain that Hitler was not
anti-Jewish, that the libellous story that
he was so had been put about by villain-
ous Jews who were anti-Hitler.
Sortie, obsessed by propriety, took
umbrage at my drawing Hitler at all,
because Hitler had just made himself
Head of State and it was disrespectful to
put Heads of States in cartoons; and
others were more moved by the insult of
my having in one cartoon carelessly
drawn the swastika the wrong way up
than by the tragic miseries of the Jews
which were its subject-matter.
Bruce Lockhart, the foreign corres-
pondent, returning from Germany after
interviewing the Fiihrer, told me that
Hitler was an artist, that he was interested
in my cartoons and would appreciate the
gift of a few originals to hang around
the Brown House.
I passed on a couple as from one artist
to another. It was not clear then as it was
later that he erroneously supposed my
attitude to be anti-democratic because my
comments frequently satirised politicians
and parties. His mistake.
HITLER lost little time in suppressing
all opposition and reorganising Ger-
many on totalitarian lines.
He made no secret of his intention to
disintegrate the world order in which
Germany, being deficient in raw materials,
was dependent upon friendly collabora-
tion with other nations, and to produce by
territorial and political expansion a
Greater Germany which would have
absolute freedom of political action.
In other words, his aim was German
dominion over Europe.
TT NEVER could believe that Hitler was a
•h certifiable lunatic, as H. G. Wells did,
nor even a mere windbag. When I saw
how cunningly he had deployed his party-
men in the key jobs in his first Coalition
Government, I was pretty sure he was
neither.
I saw a lot of the artist in Hitler.
His political conceptions were the artist’s
conceptions, seen in shapes, laid on in
wide sweeps, errors painted out and
details left until later, the bold approach
and no Tumbling.
Essentially a simple mind, uncom-
plicated by pity. The clever-clever
political analysts were deep-thinking the
inner meaning of his words, imparting
their own complexity of mind to the
object of their attentions and writing
about Hitler as though he were an inex-
plicable enigma. I assumed he would do
just as he said and made my comment
accordingly, thus earning for myself a
cheap reputation as a prophet of remark-
able insight when now and then I got in
a cartoon about an event well before
it happened.
TO instruct myself I laid in a stock of
the best works I could get on Com-
munism, Fascism and Nazism, and gave


OLD SEALED LIPS
(Like the glue, the name stuck ; and, as Low found to be generally so with
British politicians, Stanley Baldwin took it in good part.)
myself an intensive course of compara-
tive ideologies.
About six months later I had for my
pains a wall of my studio divided into
four compartments (I had added Liberal
Democracy) within which I entered for
future reference, neatly typed by my
secretary Jean, the philosophical funda-
mentals and working principles of each
system. Although both Nazi and Fascist
systems were nebulous and their principles
unstable by comparison with those of
Communism and Liberal Democracy, my
wall was vastly illuminating.
As befitted the attempted accomplish-
ment of such momentous aims, from then
on much of my space in the newsaper was
devoted to following closely the develop-
ment of Hitler’s plan. The sheer brazen
audacity of it was intensely interesting.
It logically involved the destruction of all
existing institutions upholding inter-
national law and order. It attacked the
League of Nations on the favorable
ground that it could not bring about a
general disarmament, yet it would not
allow Germany to rearm. He denounced
the disarmament clauses of the Versailles
Treaty, and withdrew Germany from the
League with warmth of expression
designed to burn-up (metaphorically) the
whole Geneva edifice.
This thought I translated into a picture
of Hitler attempting to set fire to the
League buildings, over the title “It
Worked at the Reichstag—Why Not
Here?” The allusion was to the destruc-
tion of the Reichstag by fire in Berlin
some weeks before, which there were
good grounds for believing had been
arranged by the Nazi leaders to provide
an excuse for accusing and eliminating
their political opponents.
The effect was immediate. The “Even-
ing Standard” and all papers printing my
cartoons were officially banned from
Germany.
‘TpHINGS were not going too placidly
“ for me in Italy either. I was soon to
be banned there too. By the time Hitler
arose, Mussolini had become accepted as
a feature of the Mediterranean scenery,
and was taking part, like any respectable
advanced Liberal, in League of Nations
affairs, disarmament conferences, peace
conferences, security conferences, and
even conferences to “contain” the possible
new menace Hitler.
But if Hitler, newly in power, needed
time to consolidate, „ Mussolini was
established and still possessed by his
ambitions to resurrect the Roman
Empire. His capacity for action was
limited only by Italy’s lack of sure
resources for the raw materials without
which a modern warrior-State could never
challenge the Mediterranean power of
France and Britain.
Abyssinia had these raw materials.
Many years before the League existed,
international agreements had admitted
Italy’s claim to “special interests” there,
but she had never been able to assert
them. Adventures had to be carefully
calculated. Why not take advantage of
the prevailing suspicion,' anxiety and
failure of international co-operation,
especially since Prime Minister Laval of
France had just tipped him the wink?
To hell with the League. He invaded
Abyssinia.
A conscientious cartoonist could not
but record, within the terms of his
peculiar medium of expression, the
sequence of tortuous shifts of
“diplomacy” that led up to and followed
the act. From time to time I had drawn
Mussolini as a bully or as a buffoon.
Such cartoons as that rarely got under
his skin, of course. They could be taken
easily as examples of conventional
“democratic” wit in the accepted terms of
caricature. Besides, propaganda depicting
dictators as wicked inhuman monsters did
them little harm among the sheepish
masses, either within or without their
domain. Very often the opposite. No
dictator was ever inconvenienced or even
displeased by pictures showing his terrible
exercise of power or his terrible person
stalking through blood and mud. That
may be even good for business. But it is.
“IT WORKED AT THE REICHSTAG—WHY NOT HERE?”
(This caused Low’s cartoons —and the "Evening Standard” —to be banned
from Germany.)
damaging to have the idea propagated
that he is a fool, especially if the idea
takes root among his own people.
ACTUALLY it was a cartoon about
Mussolini’s precarious dependence
on Hitler’s sympathy that the Rome
censor found unsuitable for Italian eyes,
The drawing was entitled “The Girls
He Left Behind Him” (10/5/1935) and
contained the suggestion that Hitler
wanted Mussolini involved in the
Abyssinian gamble so that he, Hitler,
would then be free to appropriate
Austria, which would have brought him
altogether too close to Italy for comfort,
The suggestion (which was completely.
justified in due course) was too harmful
just then to the Duce’s personal legend.
After that, under the ban, the occasional
appearance of my cartoons in the Italian
press stopped, except sometimes for their
description in news-dispatches accom-
panied by abusive comments.
The Rome newspaper “II Travere,” for
instance, flattered me with a banner cap-
tion which, freely translated, read:
“Our Answer to the Degraded Low of
the Evening Standard,” printed over an
Italian cartoon of John Bull floundering
in the Suez Canal, the reference being
to one of my own published some time
before entitled “Suezcide,” depicting
Mussolini in Roman armor tremulously
testing the temperature of the Suez Canal
with his big toe.
THE GIRLS HE LEFT BEHIND HIM
(The one that had Low’s cartoons and the “Evening Standard” banned
from Italy.)
To) EBUKE became ridiculous when one
day I received a call at the “Evening
Standard” office from an excited attache
from the Italian Embassy about my dog.
This dog was my trusted studio-com-
panion. One day I christened him Mus-
solini—Musso for short—and introduced
him in a cartoon. This was the beginning
of a long and popular career in the press.
Judge of my astonishment when my
visitor conveyed the regrets of the entire
Italian people at the desecration of this
exalted surname, and requested—nay,
demanded —that in the interests of inter-
national concord the dog be rechristened.
I pointed out that there were probably
500 Mussolinis in the Rome telephone-
book. There were two in London.
Which was he talking about?
Further, the coincidence by which II
Duce and my dog answered to the same
name could not, I opined, be fairly met
by the suggested step unless the principle
were carried further and applied also to
dogs bearing names of other celebrated
Romans such as Oesar and Nero.
To this there was no reply, and after
talking the matter over with my dog we
decided to let the matter drop. I was
too busy. I had on my hands the prepara-
tion of a new up-to-the-minute comic-
strip, a series in slapstick farce about
two dictatorial characters, “Hit and
Muss.”
T 7 N Britain uncertainty and confusion
it blotted the next page of political
history.
Personification of the prevailing con-
fusion and the difficulty of readjustment
to changing conditions was the Prime
Minister, Stanley Baldwin, then about to
face the general elections of 1935.
Torn by a wish to lose neither the
favor of the pacifist masses nor the chance
one day, with a change of wind, to begin
a programme of rearmament, Baldwin
could not bring himself to trust the
people with the full facts of the national
position.
“My lips are sealed,”'he said. Where-
upon I labelled him “Old Sealed Lips” and
drew him regularly with gum-tape across
his mouth. The nickname spread and
I heard that his staff used it at Downing-
street.
When at last, in 1935, the Prime
Minister did decide to let the electorate
into his confidence, the Lips were not
even then unsealed enough to give more
than warning mumbles. But his party
was returned with a large majority, and
he was enabled to get on with his
rearmament programme.
The Parliament of 1935 was, on the
evidence, representative of a people not
so much misled as hardly led at all.
Perhaps, therefore, the Prime Minister
could thank himself in some measure for
the disunity of the nation behind him.
j| HAD dealt faithfully in cartoons with
Baldwin’s animadversions, but he
had taken it in good part, “Old Sealed
Lips” and all, and when we met he was
always friendly. M.P.s had often told me
of how he sat apart in the House of
-Commons smoking-room crustily repel-
ling would-be conversationalists. They
explained to me that this was a defensive
attitude from years before against slights
from some of the venomously witty Old
Guard of his own party.
Two things suggested that there might
be something in the idea that the past
still sat heavily on his chest. Whenever
he complimented me on some cartoon it
would be one that showed some old
opponent in an unflattering light; and
although I found him a man without
much small-talk, he could be induced
without much pressing to talk about his
beginnings.
According to his own account, Baldwin
intended his Carlton Club speech in 1923
as a political retirement, because he
thought Lloyd George was a wicked
man and he wanted no more to do with
him. But when Bonar Law, who had
grown an affection for him as private-
secretary and briefcase-carrier, arose and
said he agreed with him, the die was
cast. He earned not only the reversion to
the Premiership but the envy and
animosity of most of the Tory leaders.
Pity the poor Prime-Minister-by-Acci-
dent.
As a cartoonist favoring the Opposi-
tion, 1 did not know whether to be
flattered or otherwise to get the impres-
sion that my efforts, far from disturbing
the harmony, had sometimes even been
useful to him, by enabling him to show
the more obtuse of his Cabinet colleagues
what they looked like from outside.
Apart from the personal attachment
which he had grown for Ramsay Mac-
Donald, the “National”-Labor partner-
ship suited him well, not only to provide
a bi-party camouflage for a moderate
Conservative policy, but also to hold
back the Tory wild men who pestered
him to use his advantage and come out
as extreme anti-Socialist.
Baldwin was by no means tough
enough to please some of his critics.
Relations within his party were rather
sore. He was telling me the carica-
turable points of some of his own
Cabinet colleagues when I said: “Hii
o Continued on next page)


Hi! You shouldn’t help me, Prime
Mimster. I’ve just been blackballed from
a West End club by some of your friends
tor poking fun at you”
“Probably you ought to be con-
gratulated,’ he said. “Tell me what
club and 111 propose you again myself.”
(Q ERTAINLY the Prime Minister had
a worrying job. The Americans
were still sore because they thought the
British had let them down by not follow-
ing Stimson’s line against Japan. The
Japanese were taking advantage of this
disunity to build up a naval prepon-
derance for themselves in the Pacific.
Laval, for the French, thought the
British had double-crossed France by
making independently the new Anglo-
German treaty allowing Germany a Navy,
and he was leaning over backwards to
make a private deal with Mussolini,
whereby Mussolini would become an
anti-Nazi ’ if Britain and France would
stand by while he bagged Abyssinia.
Eden and Simon had gone to ask Hitler
please not to arm so much, and Hitler
had replied by showing them his huge
air-force.
One night in 1935, after a dinner of the
Parliamentary Press Gallery at which he
was the guest, we—Madeline and I—sat
down with the Prime Minister for some
talk. I had decorated the menu with a
drawing I knew he would like. It repre-
sented him as an early eighteenth-century
taimer-character smoking a long church-
warden, with a pig asleep under his chair.
He loved it. He had been playing that
gag about simple farmer Baldwin with his
pipe and pigs so long that he almost came
to believe it himself.
I had some difficulty, as always with
sandy-lashed people, in looking him
square in the eye, especially since he had
a slight squint.
“MUSSO”
(Low delightfully describes the solemn protest by the Italian Embassy
in London!)
sorT^fnrT 16 aS distinctJ y
lell intri r^ Sel .\u Ja P anese t were
h»rF hi,ref- Sr ina 1 ’ t^le Tloare-Laval Pact
the OJ y let " down of economic
™ tlon ; was in progress; the Berlin-
0 . e 1S was formed ; and now—
Gn top of it all, his own party
vas full of intriguers out to force his
lesignation. That last made him sick,
almost ready to quit.
We did not talk of these matters, of
course, but passed only the amiable
pleasantries, hints and bits of
background” proper to meetings of
politiqal caricaturists and Prime Ministers
on social occasions. But when he asked
m m W J at 1 had in th ? paper next 1
told him I was thinking of drawing
him as Caesar surrounded by half-a-dozen
Brutuses.
Leaning over and dropping his voice
he said, “Low, of all the deaths a man
d * e > there is none worse than being
talked to death by a lot of bloody fools.”
THE “OPEN DOOR ” POLICY-IN CHINA
(Low’s. “Evening Standard” comment when the Japs started into Manchuria.)
TTN Spain clashes which had besun over
the passage of radical
and anti-clerical laws had culminated in
an Army revolt against the democratic
Government.
in < ? eneia r I K ranco ’ mil i tai 7. commander
TJ ble ? find
ported p«inn P trans u "
troops across the Straits mainland
under the protection of Italian airnlanes
Nazi aircraft joined them three davs later
and 2 n 1—
[evo t had been organised and equipped
b Y the Axis Powers,
The immediate reartinn of o u
r op,d “ al l Ms was? as^to'igh^have
been expected, sympathetic towards the
Government and hostile towards the
rm y Fascists. The liberal-democratic
feelings of the people rose spontaneously,
in fact, to a high pitch of moral indigna-
tion. There were, however, honest
British democrats who were also members
of the Roman Catholic Church. These
soon found themselves caught on the
horns of a dilemma
jj\J ATURALLY the Church placed
religion first and politics second, the
survival of democracy, British or other-
wise, being of secondary importance to
the survival of the Church.
Naturally, too, the Church thought of
the Government which sought to curtail
its traditional powers in Catholic Spain as
evil and next-door to, if not actually,
Communist. The Church had always
been able to come to terms with dictator-
ship or democracy,, but never with Corn-
munism (probably because Communism
is itself a religion, and an exclusive
religion like itself). The Church there-
fore identified itself unhesitatingly with
the interests of Franco.
„ But . beyond the labels “Catholic,”
“Fascist” and “Communist” could be
clearly seen the strategic realities of the
situation-—the preparations, open and
brazen, to weaken and destroy the Anglo-
Fiench domination of the Mediterranean,
a step forward to Mussolini’s dream of
Empire and Hitler’s world conquest.
Magic words and ideological slogans
might fly hither and thither, but whatever
one s views, it was glaringly obvious that
it was not Communism that was the
immediate danger. It was Fascism.
The whole situation soon bristled with
wry humor. My versions of General
Franco presenting Moorish mercenaries
and Foreign Legion riff-raff as “the true
Spaniards”; reflecting that it might be
to wipe out the Spanish people
to save Spain; and receiving com-
plaints from the Moors that his conduct
of war was un-Christian, brought reassur-
ing evidence that in favoring the Govern-
ment I was reflecting the common feelings
about Spain.
sut there was also a steady supply of
curses among the compliments. A fair-
sized tide of confused rebuke from far
and near, printed and spoken, narrowed
down finally to the simple proposition
that, since my cartoons about the
dictators were likely to anger them, I
should cease to draw them.
1 disagreed, of course. This was just
my old friend “Disgusted” from the
correspondence - columns, aggravated,
multiplied and reinforced. No doubt
the dictators detested criticism of any
kind. 1 o concede them dignity would
be fatal.
It is possible, however, to miss even the
glaringly obvious if one shuts one’s eyes
tight. Uneasiness of spirit doubtless
accounted for the exaggerated resentment
from this quarter which met those who
took the part of the Government of
Spain against Franco.
jj\/T Y own efforts to keep to the point,
IA/a which, as I saw it, was the threat to
democracy, were vigorous—perhaps no
more vigorous than those of many writers,
but cartoons were a more direct medium
with a wider appeal, since pictures speak
even to the illiterate. So I soon became
a focus for attack. My telephone rang all
day long and my post-box was crammed
with insulting postcards.
Amateur abuse, most of it. It takes an
expert to insult a satirist. If you say his
work is “not funny,” he can retort that
it is not intended to be funny \
inaccurate,” he can show that it is
allegorical; “obscene,” you must produce
a modicum of evidence or risk leaving
the impression that not he, but you, have
the dirty mind.
To say it is “subversive” might suggest
more promising grounds for damage (I
heard that my private life was sifted to
see if I could be proved to be an alien
named Loewe), for this is an adjective,
like “patriotic,” charged with emotion,
requiring no evidence for hot-heads but
the say-so. But to be effective its users
must be reasonably above suspicion them-
selves. In this case my attackers were
the champions of General Franco, and
by implication also of his active assistants
Hitler and Mussolini, who were obviously'
engaged in, lo say the least, un-British
activities.
Finally, after I had drawn a heavily
serious cartoon, “In Retreat,” depicting
the British Empire in a line of refugees
toiling away from a smoky horizon,
rebukes boiled down tamely to concern
with the untimeliness and peril of com-
menting upon foreign affairs, particularly
on dictators and their doings in “comical
cartoons.” This met completely the views
of those whose fixed conception of a
cartoonist was of a clown in whose efforts
to amuse coherence and direction were
misplaced. My alleged comicality was.
accordingly exaggerated to the require-
ments of the argument and deplored.
came to a pass when Father
. Francis Woodlock, the Jesuit priest
of a fashionable Farm-street church,
preached in favor of a temporary censor-
ship of the press, particularly of disre-
spectful newspaper caricatures about
sensitive dictators. The Catholic press
followed this up, naming me as the
reprehensible example.
With the soft jest to turn away'wrath,
1 cooked-up a burlesque announcement
in the “Evening Standard” appointing
Father Woodlock my Diplomatic Adviser
on cartoons about dictators, and promis-
ing that in future he would act personally
as model for all drawings of Mussolini,
thus ensuring calmer international rela-
tions. 1 his I illustrated with a genial
little sketch of both of us at work in my
studio.
Whether it was the sensitivity to the
unfavorable climate produced by his
sermon or just a determination to “get”
me, this made everything much worse.
The Father’s friends, finding an extended
arm and a bent' knee in my little sketch
of him, professed to interpret these (no
doubt after considerable strain) as a
Fascist salute and a goose-step, and, as
such, a foul imputation. The Catholic
press broke out into a front-page rash
of quite superfluous indignation at this
representation of him as “a slavish
admirer of the dictators.”
The Father himself was more astute.
Taking me up on my announcement of
COULD THIS HAVE BEEN
BLIMP'S BROTHER?
Or cartoon-father? Anyway, he had his
Turkish bath in "The Bulletin" on July
26, 1917 -in a pane of Low's suggestions
on possible fobs for war-displaced rulers.
I he old Sultan is telling "how he hacked
the wrong’ -un.’


his “new job” as my “diplomatic
adviser,” he went into effect right away
with a good big piece of diplomatic
advice: Lay off the dictators.
Too many sturdy champions were just
bursting with views both pro and con
on the principle involved in that sugges-
tion. From that point the argument
extended beyond me, over the hills and
far away.
TT CONTINUED for some weeks to
h involve Father Woodlock as my
“assistant” in slapstick cartoon-adventures
about censorship, but a year elapsed
before I actually met him. That was
nearly a turbulent occasion, also. It was
at one of Foyle’s literary luncheons and
I was the chairman. On one side of
me 1 had Professor J. B. S. Haldane, burly
outspoken Left-winger, on my right
emaciated, birdlike Father Woodlock.
Haldane spoke of the danger to Britain
of a Germany in control of aerodromes in
northern Spain and chided people who
had worked to secure a victory for
Franco —“one of whom is sitting within
a few yards of me.”
That stung Woodlock to sharp inter-
ruption, and for a boiling minute the
whole thing threatened to degenerate into
an old-fashioned barney across my
defenceless chest.
In between times the Father and I
had a pleasant conversation, under the
basilisk eye of dear old Dean Jnge across
the way disapproving us both, about the
difference between religion and loyalty
to ecclesiastical institutions.
The worst of me is that I cannot help
being friendly to my opponents.
Frustration over the failure of
the Disarmament Conference, the
weak acceptance of Hitler’s rearmament
and the let-down of economic sanctions
against Mussolini’s war had left British
common sense with a hangover.
The adjustment of ideas to a world
in which the cruel brutality of war was
still possible, even probable, was difficult
for people who had taken for granted
that it was abolished with the setting-up
of the League of Nations.
Peace was not to be ensured merely
by being peaceful. Nor, for the matter
of that, by being inefficiently warlike.
The collective organisation of peace had
been unrealistic—not taking sufficiently
into account the fallibility of statesmen,
the ancient traditions of statecraft, the
duplicity of scoundrels and the primitive
emotions of peoples. There was a rush
of impulsive youth to join the Inter-
national Brigade at Madrid, expecting
optimistically to meet a solution in direct
action.
Faced with the need of an attitude to a
choice, real once again, between resistance
and subjection, individuals searched their
souls. Besides virtue, there were some
curious finds.
20
FROM 1934 the supermen of Nazi
propaganda had begun to sow con-
fusion among their intended victims
by standing truth on its head. The inver-
sion of long-accepted meanings of
political key-words was in full swing.
The Nazi “dictators,” it seemed, were
the real “democrats.” What we had
been accustomed to think of as “slavery”
was, in reality, “freedom,” and vice versa ;
Hitler, with a revolver in each hand, was
the apostle of “peace”; while any
democracy that protested was a “war-
monger.”
This simple trick of changing around
the labels on the bottles was painfully
effective. Uncertainty prevailed.
HT so happened that the editor of the
“Evening Standard” had just placed at
my disposal a whole page in the Saturday
MISTER BALDWIN
(Thus Low labelled this superb caricature in the famous London “New Statesman"
series.)
issue for a weekly topical budget of small
local cartoons. It was a fiig job, unpre-
cedented in its line in London news-
paper journalism, and I needed a few
regular features to fill it. I decided to
invent a “character” typifying the
current disposition to mixed-up thinking,
to having it both ways, to dogmatic
doubleness, to paradox and plain self-
contradiction. This sort of thing:
“We need better relations between
Capital and Labor. If the unions won’t
accept our terms, crush ’em.”
“What the country wants is more
economy. Our fellows should fight.
Russia and China and damn the
expense.”
“Look at those foreign agitators sap-
ping the Constitution! We need a
dictator like Mussolini,”
MERE, almost ready-made, I thought,
was the essence of laughter as Hazlitt
described it; “the incongruous, the dis-
connecting one idea from another, or the
jostling of one feeling from another.”
Emerson had said : “The essence of all
jokes, of all comedy, seems to be an
honest or well-intentioned halfness....
The balking of the intellect, the
frustrated expectation, the break of con-
tinuity in the intellect, is comedy.”
I was taking a Turkish-bath, ruminat-
ing on a name for my “character” —
Goodie, Boak, Snood, Glimmer, Blimp
.. . Blimp ! . .. Lord Blimp, Bishop Blimp,
Dr. Blimp, Mr. Blimp—when I overheard
conversation coming from two pink
sweating chaps of military bearing close
by. They were telling one another that
what Japan did in the Pacific was no
business of Britain. In the newspapers
that morning some colonel or other had
written to protest against the mechanisa-
tion of cavalry, and insisting that even
if horses had to go, the uniform and
trappings must remain inviolate and
troops must continue to wear their spurs
in the tanks.
Ha! I thought. The attitude of mind!
The perfect chiaroscuro! . . . Colonel
Blimp, of course!
It began as almost a formula: Colonel
Blimp and I at the Turkish-bath perform-
ing our ablutions or exercising, he utter-
ing to me a blatantly self-contradictory
aphorism. It continued in that form
with few exceptions until a war-shortage
of paper ended the topical budget six
years later. As a cartoon “character” he
ran quietly for twelve months, and then
suddenly he “took the town” and was
everywhere.
His subsequent progress was so
astonishing as to warrant narration here
as an object-lesson in what can happen
to a symbol.
ITT may have been that in 1934 the
exaggerations of caricature were being
outdone by the realities of the time, that
truth defied burlesque and that people
really were thinking as Blimp did, with-
out suspecting that anything was amiss:
or perhaps people were trying to deceive
themselves without making a very good
job of it, and resented any disturbance to
their efforts.
Certainly a great number of complain-
ing people missed the point of Colonel
Blimp from the start. And, having done
so, they imposed upon the Colonel a point
of view, indifferent to the plain evidence
that in his very nature he had, for him-
self, at least two points of view, mixed.
To them his cancellations-out and self-
contradictions appeared in the light of
destructive attacks on hard-held beliefs
and institutions, especially those of a
military nature, since the fellow was a
Colonel.
Here objections became more precisely
occupational. Although Colonel Blimp’s
comments rarely had anything to do with
military affairs, and were almost exclu-
sively political, the prefix “Colonel” fixed
his supposed significance for inelastic
minds.
■The Spanish War and subsequent
events began to give rise to references to
Colonel Blimp in the debates of the
House of Commons as a symbol of
military incompetence. When Sir Thomas
Inskip, the Minister of Defence, rose to
deny indignantly that he was “associated
with a number of respectable Colonel'
Blimps”; when Mr. Hore-Belisha, the
Minister of War, took pains to announce
that after a dust-up at the War Office
Colonel Blimp was now dead; when
Mr. (later Lord) Pethick-Lawrence
warned the Government that “if they
wanted to carry the country with them
in the war-effort they must set about
abolishing blimpery”; and when Sir
Stafford Cripps, the Leader of the House,
replied by promising the “early funeral
°f. the late and unlamented Colonel
Blimp”—that particular misapprehension
was confirmed.
(To be continued next week )


the/^%^
KB
Lager
try it...
you'll
like
it!
.SKEWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
K 8.166.13
kiiv mens a
SANDERS!
tfsjgg.FlLE|
Correspondence* invoices,
statements, etc., filed in the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect boole of reference at
the end of each month —or
any other period.
Prices and fur*
ther information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE , . Norman Broa. FIT. U*
ADELAIDE , a v.rdon Prlca Ltd.
PERTH ... Doolie* Book Co. tANh)
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
When King’s Fair, who must
have about the biggest hind-
quarters of any current race-
horse, bounded up to the leaders
two furlongs from home it was
obvious he would win this year’s
Newmarket at Flemington last
Saturday. Third Dimension
came through a wall of horses
to be second. Copper Year,
overweighted with 9.6 in com-
parison with King’s Fair’s 9.1,
hung on .to be third.
Victorian handicappers con-
tinue to work on the loyal prin-
cipal that Sydney and New
Zealand form isn’t 101 b. above
Victorian and South Australian.
Heather had instructions in
the Queen’s Plate to keep Sailor’s
Guide within a neck of Red-
craze from barrier-rise, and to
do it he had to come round the
long Flemington turn three-
wide. Redcraze dashed clear
soon after they entered the
straight, but Sailor’s Guide put
his neck out in his characteristic
game style, and he was gaining
almost imperceptibly all the way
to the post. The farther they
go, the better Sailor’s Guide
likes it, and he improves with
racing. He will not be denied,
and he should not be under-
estimated.
In the Sires’ Produce, King
Nero, the leader,’ came away
from the rails, leaving a nice
opening for Ace High (William-
son), who dashed through and
got a break of two lengths ; but
Tulloch (Ward) also got the run.
(Ward had had to keep Tulloch
on the rails because of his
inclination to run in.) It is
doubtful if Tulloch is so much
better than Ace High. He went
after him, and beat him by a
long neck, but he had the
advantage of the last run.
Ward made Newmarket Day a
special for himself, winning four
of the eight races —the four
important ones at that. He was
successful on Tulloch in the
Sires’ Produce Stakes, Summalu
in the St. Leger, King’s Fair in
the Newmarket, and then on
Redcraze in the Queen’s Plate.
King*s Fair started at 7 to 1,
but the other three were at brief
odds.
Ward also won the Queen’s
Plate last year. His mount that
day, Somerset Fair, finished
second to Coleridge in New
Zealand’s North Island Chal-
lenge Stakes (£2000; seven
furlongs) at Wellington last
Saturday.
King’s Fair won in race-
record time, and the big win
wasn’t out of his turn, he having
finished second in the Epsom to
Hans, second in the Doncaster
to Slogan 11, and in Brisbane
third to Knave in the Stradbroke.
His time, 1.10, clipped three-
fourths of a second from the
previous best, shared by All Veil
and St. Ardent.
• • • • ’
Melbourne colt Summalu out-
classed weak opposition to win
the V.R.C. St. Leger. He won by
eight lengths, and may provide
the chief opposition to Sydney-
trained colt Monte Carlo in the
A.J.C. St. Leger. There doesn’t
seem to be any other three-year-
old bar these two with much
chance in the Randwick classic,
though Harnham Hill may show
the required improvement in
the meantime. Summalu,
bought in New Zealand for
875gns. (the St. Leger was worth
£2450 to owner C. Cooke), is
by Summertime (imp.), a son
of Precipitation, a noted Eng-
lish stayer, and is from Lady Lu
by Raceful from Welcome Lu
by Lucullus (imp.).
Rheo, winner of the V.R.C.’s
First Hopeful Stakes, cost A. R.
Creswick 3100gns. as a yearling
at the Randwick sales last year.
Having his first run in a race,
the colt started a warm favorite.
Fred Hoysted trains the Mid-
stream (imp.) youngster, whose
dam, Sidonia (imp.), was got
by Noble Star from Sabrina by
Colombo. Sea Sovereign, a
brother to Rheo, won the A.J.C.
and the Q.T.C. St. Legers.
Ardent Gene, a particularly
fast two-year-old on the Rose-
bery training tracks, but a slow
race-starter with a dislike for the
electric-gates at Sydney meet-
ings, won the Second Hopeful
Stakes at her first Melbourne
start. She was a bit slow to
get going even from the open
barrier, but her brilliant pace
soon had her with the lead, and
she scored well. Yet another of
the speedy Newtown Wonders,
she’s from Ardent by Genetout.
Main interest in the third day
of the V.R.C.’s autumn meeting
(today, Wednesday) will centre
on the mile w.-f.-a. £l5OO C. M.
Lloyd Stakes and the Ascot Vale
Stakes (six furlongs) for two-
year-olds.
Several Doncaster and Sydney
Cup candidates had the colors
up at Canterbury Park last
Saturday. Kingster, who bril-
liantly won the Flying, defeat-
ing Prince Jambo and Teranyan,
drops from 9.4 to 9st. in the big
mile, and he’s bound to be
better for the run, his first since
last October.
Last year the Lloyd Stakes
went to Kingster. Starting
favorite, he defeated The Orb
and Astoria 11. He had won the
Newmarket on the opening day
of the fixture, and King’s Fair
may repeat that performance.
New Zealand-bred Docker,
having his first race-start, went
to the barrier at 100 to 1 in
the Two-year-old Handicap at
Canterbury (won by Cornelius),
and Docker shaped well enough
to note down as an early
winner. He was back in the field
to the home-turn, then ran on
strongly to be close to the
placed horses —and it was a
good field. He’s by Ruthless
(imp.) from Gold Shoes.
After Harry Taylor sold Oxley
that galloper went to Melbourne,
won several races and became a
top stayer. More recently Taylor
sold Regal Forest to Mrs. M.
Pollard, who won the Canterbury
Park Handicap with the Del-
ville Wood gelding last Satur-
day—not forgetting to let the
fielders know she was in the
betting-ring, either! Also, she
herself wore her racing-colors—
white, lilac cap. Still, it was
just as well she put Jack Thomp-
son in the saddle, because that
good horseman had to use all
his vigor to bring success. Regal
Forest won with a light weight,
7.7, but he has 31b. less in the
S.T.C.’s £5OOO Cup, to be run
at Rosehill on April 6, and 21b.
less in the Sydney Cup, though
the two miles may be a little far
for him: he was one of the
fancies for last year’s two-miler,
but, after being handy to the
lead half-a-mile from home, he
dropped out, to finish eighth.
It’s a big step from success in
Graduation Stakes company to
a win in the Doncaster, but
Waterford, who has emerged
from the restricted ranks fol-
lowing his brilliant Canterbury
win with 8.12, looks a Doncaster
show with 7.9. And other horses
have risen from the Graduation
ranks to Cup success. Water-
ford is' bred to stay any dis-
tance. He figures in the Sydney
Cup on 7.6. A three-year-old
colt by Midstream (imp.), he’s
frpm imported mare Amazonian
by Devonian.
Leading Brisbane trainer
H. F. Best paid 525gns. for the
colt by Magic Bow (imp.) from
Posted Ledger by Posterity
(imp.) at the Randwick yearling-
sales last Easter. Now racing as
Magic Link, the two-year-old
won in that class at Doomben
last Saturday, downing the hot
“ Couldn't you possibly Wait until you get to the gym?”
favorite, Seeim, with .200-to-1
Lucky Signal third. Magic Link
is trained by Best for J. Howard,
and is a half-brother of French
Beau, a smart winner on Mel-
bourne tracks, while his dam is
a half-sister to Hans.
* * *
“R.A.C.” (North Fremantle)
sums-up on the Inter-Dominion,
decided in Perth:
Before a capacity crowd of 35,000
at Gloucester Park the 1957 Inters
Final was won easily by Radiant
Venture, pacing at a 2.6 f mile-rate.
Radiant Venture, a big six-year-old
black gelding (Radiant Robert-
Dunella) known as “Jack,” started
favorite at 7 to 4, and made it 26 wins
from his last 29 starts; and so became
the first pacer bred in S.A. ever to
win the big event.
A new system of handicapping is
needed, and should have only three
marks in these series—scratch, 12yds.
and 24yds. The best horse in the
world could not win the Inters Final
nowadays from 36yds.-handicap.
Caduceus, the crack N.Z. pacer,
equalled Captain Sandy’s State record
for 13 furlongs (2.5| mile-rate), but
could finish only fourth —well back.
Mineral Spring, one of the early
favorites for the Final, a class pacer
from N.S.W., finished only fifth.
Throughout the series he did not
appear to be well driven by M.
Adams, who appeared to cover
extra ground needlessly and generally
race erratically. F. E. Kersley, the
reinsmen of Caduceus, said that
horse’s chance was spoilt by Mineral
Spring’s moving in and out, causing
Caduceus to be checked twice.
“Abdullah’s” summing-up on
the Inters:
Radiant Venture is by S.A.’s leading
sire, Radiant Robert, from an unraced
gift-mare, Dunella. The dam was
bred in the purple. She is by
Cornelia King from Chee Chi by
Great Hope from Tui by Abbey Bells
from Inveresta (which’ makes Tui a
full-sister to Evening Bells, the dam
of Dan Bells, sire of 1937 Wayville
Inter-Dominion winner, Dan’s Son).
Globe Derby is inevitably present
in the winner’s bloodlines: Radiant
Robert is by Robert Derby, a son of
Globe Derby; his sire’s dam, Ellen
Mary, was dam also of Gipsy Derby,
dam of Lily Direct, dam of 1954
(Wayville again) Inter winner,
Tennessee Sky.
Radiant Venture strung-up 18 con-
secutive wins on S.A. tracks before
being beaten a yard, after he had
cast a plate, by Modulation, who
finished deep in his wake in last
week’s Final. But he had not been
put to the test against the class of
horse with which he was to do battle
in Perth. And, though he was treated
with respect in early discussions, no
one would have been surprised if the
task proved beyond him.
In the 12-furlongs heat he gave a
pacing exhibition, and won as he
liked; over the 13-furlongs he
bumped Caduceus and was beaten a
yard-and-a-half (after which his con-
nections took a strange action and
lengthened his hopples, to give him
more room to throw his legs on a
track bigger than he had been
accustomed to); over the two-miles he
met and defeated Mineral Spring and
Robert Sheen.
In the Final he left no doubt —he
paced at a 2.6Fbat., which set horses
that were standing him 24 and 36
yards a task that was beyond them.
The “big, ungainly black,” as local
scribes had described him, proved
that, beyond being a bodyful of
potential, he was a champion.
The chances now are that Radiant
Venture will be in Sydney to contest
the Easter Cup, in which he would
meet tough local opposition—includ-
ing a few very smart ones that weren’t
in Perth —performers from other
States, and most likely the brilliant
Caduceus; and he would meet them
on tougher handicap-conditions, and
so be asked to prove himself to the
hilt.
+ +
“K e j o k a d a”: Castlemaine,
the “Magpies” of the Bendigo
Football League, will have their
three teams this year coached
by former Tigers. Firsts’ captain-
coach, just appointed, is Ray
Poulter, who’s been one of the
most formidable V.F.L. centre-
half-forwards for some years
past, though spasmodic last year.
The other two have been at
Castlemaine longer—Ray Bower
(who played with Poulter in
Richmond’s seconds in the
1940’5) and Joe Murdoch.
* * *
“A.L.D.”: N.S.W. and Aus-
tralian Rugby Union treasurer
Terry McClenaughan, will
manage the Wallaby team to
tour the British Isles, France
and Canada later this year. He
beat N.S.W. president Jock
Blackwood and nine other
candidates for the job. Dave
Cowper, of Victoria, chairman
of the Australian selection-
committee, will be assistant-
manager. McClenaughan, who’s
also secretary of St. George
(Sydney), represented that club
in 142 first-grade matches, led
the side in 90, and played for
Sydney and the State. Cowper
played for both N.S.W. and
Victoria, leading Victoria nine
times and N.S.W. twice. He
captained Australia in South
Africa in 1933.
* * *
“C.A.A.”: Some coves are
keen! Pat O'Kane, grazier, of
Katamatite (Vic.), bags his
seventh country tennis singles
crown at 29, and will travel 200
miles each Saturday this coming
winter to play pennant tennis
and prepare himself for the
summer’s major tournaments.
His championship wins are a
record ; previous best, five titles
by J. J. Walton, of St. Arnaud.


Faith in th e
Future
In a paper read before the Australian
Citizenship Convention at Canberra recently. Sir
Douglas Copland made a wise and long-sighted
remark.
He said that if sustaining both the rate of
development and the rate of immigration involved
some conflict between stability and progress,
Australia should choose progress.
It was wise, I say, because it implies a
realisation of our full destiny—within ourselves as
a nation, and in the sight of the world.
I am convinced that never before has there
been a time when it was more vital to the British
Commonwealth—and consequently to the whole
cause of Democracy—that Australia should be
strong and flourishing. Nor has there been a time
when heavier reliance has been placed on individual
Australians to give of their best.
Britain in. recent times has had to face some
tough problems, but the British Commonwealth as
a unit is strong, and Australia is prospering.
The wealth of this country awaits an even
richer winning—as we see so strikingly in the field
of new mineral discovery. Our harvests are
bountiful; our wool-clips and grain and other
produce, together with a growing output from our
secondary industries, sustain us in comfort. The
foundations for a lasting progress have been laid.
Our task is to go ahead fearlessly, courageously,
and build on that; to increase the rate of
productivity by making the maximum use of our
resources, employing the best in labour-saving and
cost - lowering machinery, and training or
introducing the skills that will handle it.
Stability is good, and necessary. Security is
fine. Neither is incompatible with Progress.
Our very prosperity, indeed, throws into sharper
relief the alternatives that have ever been before us:
We go on to people this land and make it truly
great, or we stagnate in a false complacency.
For a people worthy of our Past and deserving
of our Future there can be only one choice.
7
"I'll Bet Y'!"
Freak Bets Won and Lost
By JAMES HOLLEDGE
IN 1939, 15 miners of
Corrimal (N.S.W. South
Coast) drank 480 gallons of
beer in 12 days. The previous
year a man pushed his brother in
a wheelbarrow from Adelaide to
Sydney via Broken Hill in less
than 10 weeks.
A businessman once rode a
child’s tricycle from Melbourne
to Sydney. Two West Australians
pushed peanuts along the road
with their noses from Boulder
to Kalgoorlie, a distance of
three miles.
A Mildura resident drove a
van to which a bull was
harnessed 250 miles to Mel-
bourne. More than 100 years
ago a man jumped into Sydney
Harbor, disappeared under Bft.
of water, and completely un-
dressed himself before his breath
gave out.
All these odd feats were the
result of wagers. And it has been
ever so. In every age and in
every land there have been
people who “took a chance” like
these, with unusual wagers that
have brought them fame or
notoriety. The true gambler—
and no country produces him
so prolifically as Australia —
cannot resist the challenge of
having a flutter.
It was the gambling spirit that-
prompted the Kalgoorlie miners,
Fred Mapletoft and Ike
(“Schnozzle”) Sheiles, to bet on
their ability to roll peanuts with
their noses for three miles.
The wheelbarrow-trek from
Adelaide to Sydney was per-
formed in 1938 by Alex
Alexander and his brother Harry
for a £2OOO-bet. It was claimed
that in the process they broke
the “world’s barrow-pushing
record” when they covered one
stretch of 26 miles in a day.
Bets on Wheelbarrow Derbies
were prevalent all over Australia
“And don't hit low or you'll damage his gear-box."
before World War 11. Nine men
competed in a five-mile barrow-
race in Perth. The winners
attributed their success to their
solid training in which they
covered 500 practice miles!
Australia has not had a
monopoly of wheelbarrow
contests. Fifty years ago an
Austrian named Josef Brashki
successfully wagered that he
could push a barrow containing
an list, man from Vienna to
Paris. His time was days
for the 860-mile journey. That
makes his average daily distance
better than the “record” claimed
for his Australian rivals, the
Alexander brothers.
From wheelbarrows it was an
easy—not to say natural—step to
prams. Sandy Stone, of Alex-
andra (Vic.), cleaned-up a sheaf
of wagers when he pushed a
pram (carrying 12st. Les Cupples
as “baby”) a distance of 45 miles
in 13f hours.
Europe’s best pram-pusher
was a Frenchman, Anton Hani-
slau, of Bordeaux. Challenged
by a wealthy rival businessman,
he pushed a specially-made
pram—with his wife in it! —a
distance of 15,000 miles. It took
him 22 months, and from his
rival (who had stated a set sum
per mile, with no limit as to the
number of miles) he collected
more than a million francs.
Alfred Williamson was the
Melbourne tricycle prodigy who
cleaned-up when he pushed his
machine to Sydney in 9 days 23
hours. Challenged to a new
wager, he did it again in
December, 1939, and lopped 48
hours off his time. His feat in-
spired two Perth identities to
compete for a small fortune in a
60-mile tricycle epic.
Freak bets are often the out-
come of eating and drinking.
William Beaumont, of Glengarry
West (Vic.), was renowned for
his sausage-eating ability (up
to 30 at a sitting). In the 1930’s
he regularly won bets from
aspiring rivals who came from
hundreds of miles to challenge
him.
Probably the queerest gambler
in this category was an American
student at Harvard named
Othrop Withenngton. He was
reported some years back to be
paying his way through the
university (and running a Buick
convertible) on his winnings
from people who refused to
believe he swallowed live gold-
fish.
Darwin (N.T.) staged a frog-
race, and in a Sydney suburb
£7OO once changed hands in a
Tortoise Derby. The tortoises
were placed in the centre of a
25ft. ring. The winner was the
one that first crossed some por-
tion of the ring’s circumference.
Names were stencilled on the
tortoises’ backs to give the affair
a proper race-flavor. The
winner was timed: they clocked
him at an estimated 88yds. per
hour.
Some of Australia’s biggest
wagers were made not on horses,
but on footraces. Fifty years
ago it was probably our richest
sport, with up to 50,000 spec-
tators attending a meeting. Two
runners named Ted Lazarus and
Charlie Samuels once met in a
challenge race over 120yds. at
the Sydney suburb of Botany.
The clash excited so much
interest that Canterbury Races,
scheduled for the same day, were
postponed.
Punters . who had backed
Lazarus for a fortune laid him the
anxious odds of £7OOO to a penny
as an incentive to win. He didn’t,
In 1910 one young Sydney
blood challenged another to
drive a horse-and-sulky through
the Sydney Arcade. Then a
haunt of the city’s elite, it was
a favorite Saturday-morning
parade-ground for the fashion-
conscious. It was through these
crowds that the horse-and-sulky
careered at full tilt —to win the
driver his bet, but to lose him
£5 in subsequent court
proceedings for disturbing the
peace.
Then there’s billiards—a quiet
enough pastime, you’d think. Yet
in one afternoon in 1701 it cost
Duke Maximilian of Bavaria
£720j,000. Betting on himself
and doubling-up, he effectively
ruined his country’s finances for
years to come.
Cricket has seen its share of
crazy wagers. A farmer with the
resounding cricket-name of
Trumper, living in the English
village of Rickmansworth, once
bet that he and his sheepdog
could beat two well-known
cricketers in a match. With the
aid of the dog’s uncanny fielding
he scored £5.
Lord Elington once under-
took to have a letter sent 50
miles in less than an hour. It
was before the invention of
motor-vehicles and beyond any
horse —but it would be done, his
Lordship declared, for a bet of
£250.
He won by sewing the letter
in a cricket-ball and stationing
relays of crack players along
the 50-mile/ route. They threw
the ball along from one to the
other to reach its destination in
time.
Some of the old-time wagers
certainly had more imagination
behind them than those devised
by present-day gamblers. In
1818, for a bet of 10 guineas,
a London actor piloted a tub
down the Thames for a couple of
of miles. The craft was drawn
by six harnessed geese paddling
along heroically in front.
A few years before that, a
blind man, inspired by “a small
wager,” raced a mail-coach
travelling between Halifax and
Bradford. The distance was
eight miles, and the blind man
won by seven minutes.
In 1807 an Army officer
named Bennet bet he could roll
a hoop 22 miles in hours. He
lost his 100 guineas.
Captain Machell, a famous
English sportsman, perfected a
trick of hopping from the floor
up to a mantelpiece. When he
could do it with the verve of a
professional acrobat —turning in
the air and landing with his back
to the wall —he was ready to
clean-up from anyone willing to
bet he couldn’t do it. In fact,
he travelled England with the
trick for five years, earning a
living from the unwary, with
enough over to invest in a racing-
stable ; he went on to win the
English Grand National.
A cyclist named Shields,
impelled by the gambling spirit,
once rode a pennyfarthing
bicycle down a 25ft. ladder from
the upper story of a house in
Cincinnati (U.S.A.). Same
country, a golfer in Pittsburg
drove a golf-ball right across the
city in less than 500 strokes and
collected a sizeable wager. Two
gentlemen in Paris rode horses
into the august precincts of the
Jockey Club and played billiards
from their saddles for 100,000
francs.
In 1908 a wealthy 33-year-old
English playboy named Harry
Bentley made a £21,000 bet with
an American millionaire. To
win he had to walk round the
world, calling at more than 300
towns in 19 countries, wearing
an iron mask all the time, push-
ing a baby’s pram and earning
his own keep by selling photo-
graphs and booklets.
None of that deterred Bentley
—or a final condition that he
must get married somewhere on
the route. By 1914 he was still
going strong, with all conditions
except finding a wife fulfilled
and only six countries left to
visit. Then World War I inter-
vened, and the whole thing had
to be called off. Bentley received
a consolation settlement of £4OOO
from the millionaire, but later
descended to poverty when his
own fortune, which was invested
in Russia, disappeared during
the Revolution.
More successful was a young
Bostonian, who, left in a hotel
room without clothes or money,
set out in 1893 for a £lO,OOO bet
to go round the world in a year
and return with £lOOO earned
on the way. He did it, and won
the stake—getting his start by
telephoning a newspaper from
the hotel room and selling them
the story of the stunt.
In the United States there’s
even a Batty Bettors’Association.
New members’ credentials are
carefully scrutinised. Recent bets
that secured admittance to the
fraternity have included sitting
on a block of ice for five hours,
camping undetected in the lift-
well of Grand Central Station
for two days, spinning a plate
continuously for 24 hours, keep-
ing awake for one week, eating
two newspapers, sucking down
4000yds. of spaghetti in a
minute-and-a-half, and hopping
300 miles on one leg.
The welcome by the Batty
Bettors to the man who per-
formed the last-mentioned feat
was possibly some consolation
for the three months in a
hospital bed his hopping cost
him.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
.JACKSON X
dSUUIVAjf
rrtm
ntAoe
KiArm
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Fergnson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS. PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia;
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
CHINA
pRESS-ESTIMATIONS of the
* growing status of Communist
China, as indicated by Chinese
Prime Minister Chou En-lai’s
three-months tour of Eastern
Europe, Russia and Asia:
Edward Crankshaw, in London
“Observer” : “China has moved
from the Pacific and has finally
established herself as a great
world Power with her feet firmly
in Europe and the Middle East.”
* * *
Rawle Knox, in London
“Observer" : “In Asia he [Chou
En-lai] has swept the board with
a smooth and antiseptic touch.
Even in Burma, which has fears
of Communist intentions, and in
Pakistan, which has doubts
about them, Mr. Chou had no
serious differences with national
leaders. Generally, he has left
behind an overwhelming im-
pression of China’s will to work
for peace.
“During his visit to Eastern
Europe, China virtually seized
the inspirational leadership of
the Communist world, while
handing it formally to Moscow.
And in the joint Sino-Soviet
communique on the Eisenhower
Doctrine, China lent her name
to the Communist offensive in
the Middle East, a part of the
world with which she has before
not seriously concerned herself.”
London “ Observer” editorial
comment: “It would be hard to
Exaggerate the revolutionary im-
plications, not only for the Soviet
Union but also for the map of
world-power balance, of the
emergence of this apparition
from the East. For, no matter
how loudly the Chinese may
protest that the Soviet Union is
the ‘centre’ or the ‘head’ of
international Communism, the
simple fact remains that at a
critical moment in the history of
the Soviet Union the voice of
the Communist world is the
spokesman of Mao Tse-tung.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“The most interesting thing
about Chou’s trip is not that he
attempted to rally the satellites
around Moscow, but that he was
entrusted with this mission.
‘At the time the Poles staged
their bloodless revolution
against Moscow last October, the
Chinese Communists were
reported to have given them
warm encouragement. In turn,
the satellite Governments of
Eastern Europe were said to have
admired Peking’s relative inde-
pendence from Moscow, and to
have counted on the Chinese for
moral support in their efforts to
shake free.
“Chou has now apparently
decided that the development of
‘national’ Communism is not
worth the disintegration of the
Soviet empire, and so his prestige
as a leader of the Soviet Union’s
chief satellite was offered : —or
enlisted —to save it.
“The Soviet Union may be
grateful to him, but it must also
be disturbed to reflect that
Communist China has such
influence that its Premier is sent
to square things between
Moscow and Eastern Europe.”
* * *
William Forrest, in London
“New Chronicle ”: “While pay-
ing lip-service to ‘the leadership
of the Soviet Union,’ China is
quietly but unmistakably
assuming the leadership of the
Communist world.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“What will be the effect of
China’s increasing involvement
in Eastern European affairs on
her relations with Asian neutrals?
Mr. Chou has already had an
awkward time with Mr. Nehru
over Hungary; if China con-
tinues to back the Soviet Union
unhesitatingly in its bloody
enterprises her own reputation
must suffer. Mr. Chou’s tour
was designed to clarify China’s
position for the Communist
bloc ; it will also clarify it for
the non-Communist nations.”
* * *
London “New Statesman ” :
“If Mr. Chou En-lai has taken
advantage of the Western world’s
confusion, he has also embar-
rassed Mr. Nehru’s plans for
increasing the non-committed
area of the world. The Chinese
Premier offers the five principles
of coexistence to India and to
all other non-committed
countries. But those who are less
able to defend themselves or
more hostile to the West than
India are now increasingly likely,
as the Irishman said, to be
neutral on the Communist side.
Thus the arrival of this astute
leader of the most numerous and
capable people in. the world
transforms the political scene.
It bolsters up the sagging
influence of Moscow, and makes
it more difficult for backward
areas to be genuinely uncom-
mitted. Mr. Chou En-lai is a
visitor to the Western world who
has come to stay.”
* - * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman” : “Ten
years ago it would have been
almost incredible that China
should play any sort of part in
the affairs of Europe. But that
is what Chou En-lai has been
doing recently in the satellite
countries, and the Russian
leaders have made it quite clear
how much importance they
attach to this.
“W ith o u t China’s moral
support Russia’s position in the
Communist world would be
much more difficult than it is. In
addition to all the internal
oppression which provided the
motive force for the Chinese
i evolution, humiliation at the
part which other countries
played in Chinese affairs was a
psychological fact, even if its
real basis was slender. For
China there is little doubt that
this turning of the tables is a
matter of pride. The extension
of Chinese influence got a
tremendous impetus from the
Bandoeng conference, where
Chou was the star performer.
“China has now been giving
Russia a helping hand in Europe.
The Chinese Communists’
success has not owed very much
to the Russian example. But it
has owed a great deal to Russian
and satellite technicians and
machinery. Thus, though
China’s achievements have put
her in a position of power and
influence, and impressed the
Russians in particular, her rapid
advance depends on the continu-
ation of technical help and the
supply of capital goods.
“Chou’s support for Russian
policy in Hungary and Eastern
Europe, his formal recognition
of Russia’s leadership of the
Communist world, and his recent
condemnation of Titoism are
probably motivated not simply
by the desire to please Russia
and screw some more help out
of her, but also by the fact that
a fair proportion of China’s trade
is with the satellites, and it is
to her direct interest that the
regimes should be maintained.”
R.N. (Atomic)
British plans for an atomic
submarine have reached the
“final stages” at a time when
the U.S. has two such vessels
already at sea. Russia, too, it
is presumed, is well ahead in
the field.
The reasons for the British
lag, Edinburgh “Scotsman”
comments, are “clear enough”:
“It cost America more to
build the Nautilus than we
[Britain] could ever afford. With
limited resources the Royal
Navy was waiting till design-
possibilities offered a better
return. Today the teething-
stages have been gone through,
and we know better than to
build a replica of the Nautilus,
which produces power at a cost
about six times higher than
would be economically feasible
for a merchant-ship.
“The Nautilus, of course, is
actually in service—a deadly
weapon of war. But as a side-
effect of our own [Britain’s]
advanced nuclear work at Har-
well has come the revelation
that it might be possible to build
a marine atomic-power plant
producing electricity at about
1.3 d. to 1.35 d. per unit. Britain’s
hope is the organic liquid-
moderated reactor, in which
.petroleum compounds would act
as moderator, probably also as
a coolant. Harwell’s experi-
mental unit should be completed
this year.”
“The Royal Navy’s appoint-
ment of a Rear-Admiral,
Nuclear Propulsion,” the “Scots-
man” adds, “has to be seen
against this promising back-
ground. The Navy can afford
to wait no longer. The wide
powers given to Admiral Wilson
suggest something like a ‘crash-
programme’ to take our Fleet
into the atomic age as quickly as
the immense problems of reactor,
engine and hull-design can be
solved in practice.
“Gradually from now on we
may expect the uncertainty
which has hung over the Navy
for the past few years to dispel
as the technical possibilities
crystallise into something more
definite. Atomic submarines
carrying nuclear - warhead
rockets of moderate range can
definitely be expected. Surface
missile-carriers of cruiser-size
are controversial aircraft-
carriers much more so. Both
show up far too easily on ultra-
modern radar.
“While all this is important
strategically, the greatest sig-
nificance of the appointment for
Britain’s future as a seafaring
country lies in the close tie-up
made between the Naval and
commercial uses of nuclear-pro-
pulsion. Admiral Wilson be-
comes responsible also for its
application to the Merchant
Navy—a wise decision. It is
better to concentrate what is
essentially one job in one pair
of hands.”
“The logicat next step,”
says London “Daily Telegraph,”
“is to build as quickly as pos-
sible a British prototype atomic-
powered merchant vessel, and to
make it complementary to the
American project [a nuclear-
powered surface-vessel] rather
than competitive with it.
“Two things are already
obvious. The Government will
have to provide the greater part
of the money. The shipping-
industry has said that it is ready
and anxious to co-operate in
every way ; but it cannot finance
a research-project which can-
not possibly be economic.
“Secondly, the ship on which
Britain should concentrate is a
tanker. For one thing, the
American ship is to be a
passenger-cargo vessel. More
important, a large, long-range
tanker is inherently the most
likely to be commercially suc-
cessful. In any case, it is vessels
of this kind which we are going
to need to make our Middle
New York “Herald Tribune"
TROJAN CAMEL
East oil-transport absolutely
secure.”
Giving further point to the
foregoing suggestion, the Daily
Telegraph” comments elsewhere
on the Suez Canal:
“Sooner or later the canal
will be open. But will it be free?
Our hope that it will, so far as
Britain and France are con-
cerned, depends on an assurance
which Nasser gave to Mr.
Hammarskjoeld.
“But seven years ago Egypt
gave the same kind of assurance
about freedom of navigation in
the Gulf of Akaba —and con-
tinued to deny it to Israel, on
the same grounds that Israeli
shipping was barred from the
canal.
“In Nasser’s eyes, Britain and
France now share Israel’s status
as ‘belligerents.’ We cannot be
certain that he will let us through
the reopened canal; he has not
yet even stated his terms. Nor,
if terms are agreed, can we be
sure that they will not be
changed or flouted, as were those
of the original Convention.
“In short we [Britain] cannot
be sure of the canal. This must
be faced, without any illusion
that the United Nations can
afford us the guarantees it
prevented us from exacting our-
selves. It means that British
policy should henceforth pursue
a dual purpose. Its immediate
aim, from economic necessity,
must be to regain the use of
the canal as quickly as possible.
“But we should begin at once
to plan for ultimate independence
of the canal, by studying and
atco-ordinating the various alter-
native means of bringing Middle
East oil to Europe. That is the
only kind of guarantee on which
we can really rely.”
Israel
Suggesting in a letter to Lon-
don “Spectator” that Britain
“should invite the sovereign
State of Israel to become a
member of the British Common-
wealth of Nations,” Mark
Goulden goes on to claim that
all “the prirna facie objections
and obstacles disappear when
the proposal is examined
carefully”:
“It will be seen to be
eminently practical. It entails no
loss of sovereignty by the
Republic of Israel, which, like
India, would accept the Queen
as a symbol of the free associa-
tion of nations.
“The gains to ourselves
[Britain], to Israel and to the
world at large are incalculable.
Would not a powerful British
base in the Negev —on Empire
territory, bear in mind —be the
best guarantee of permanent
peace and order in this turbulent
area of the globe? Clearly it
would put an end not only to
Nasser’s dream of uninterrupted
hegemony from Cairo to North
Africa, but also to his hopes of
a victorious war of revanche.
“Of course there would be the
usual howls of ‘Colonialism’ and
alarums about ‘setting the Arab
world ablaze,’ but by now we are
surely inured to these mean-
ingless bogeys.
“And what would the
Russians do? Always, it seems,
we must ask ourselves what the
Russians and the United
Nations —will do when we make
any move. Well, conceivably
Mr. Bulganin might invite Egypt
to become the 125th Soviet in
the Communist Empire, but it is
easier to imagine Nasser as a
good Commissar than visualise
the fellaheen as good Stak-
hanovites! So we need not
begrudge Russia the acquisition.
“More important, how would
the State of Israel react to the


JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental
Cream
CLEANS
YOUR
BREATH
mm
m
aMWMfcSya
m
r > t -c -
*
...^
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
HI
STOPS TOOTH DECAY BEST!
Scientific tests over a 2-year period show a startling reduction
in tooth decay for those who brushed their teeth with
Colgate’s right after eating! In fact X-rays showed no new
cavities whatever for almost 2 out of 3 people.
m
Keeps children's teeth healthy
Scientific tests showed that the Colgate way
of brushing teeth right after eating stopped
decay for more people than ever before
reported in all dentifrice history. Your
teeth are whiter brighter and you
are assured of round-the-clock protection
against decay-causing enzymes.
Colgate Dental Cream Is Australia’s largest
America’s largest - the world’s largest selling dental cream
Get the Family Economy Size and save up to 1/10.
U3SC i
invitation to become the ninth
member of our diminished but
still mighty Commonwealth?
Unless wisdom is gone from
Zion she must welcome the offer
with exultation and rejoicing.
Surrounded as she is today by a
sea of enemies pledged to
destroy her, Israel’s co-partner-
ship with the British Common-
wealth would literally be her
salvation. Israel needs a friend
among the nations just as sorely
as we [Britain] need a friend in
the Middle East.”
Europe's Atom Plan
The three most promising
developments towards the
evolution of a United States of
Europe are the European Coal
and Steel Community, the
European Common Market, and
Euratom —the proposal for the
six Messina countries to co-
operate in the development of
nuclear-power to compensate for
the shortage of coal and oil.
Commenting on Euratom, a
London “Financial Times”
writer notes that “co-operation
was helped initially by the fact
that a fully-fledged atomic- energy
programme was considered
beyond the financial means of
any one country acting alone,
and also by the fact that in all
the countries concerned atomic
development was in its infancy”:
“Euratom’s authority over
European atomic development is
to be achieved by its tight
control over nuclear-fuel: it will
have almost complete monopoly
rights over all radioactive
materials, natural nuclear-fuels
and prepared fissile material,
either imported or produced
within the area. Nuclear-fuel will
almost certainly be sold outright
to the users, but after the com-
pletion of the transformation-
cycle, ownership of all radio-
active material reverts to
Euratom.
“in this way, without affecting
either the ownership or the con-
trol of the atomic-power industry
within the Messina countries,
Euratom will possess con-
siderable power. Applicants for
fuel will have to state the use
to which it will be put, and
Euratom’s inspectors will have
the right to investigate all institu-
tions that use fissile material.
In the last resort, they will be
empowered to remove the fuel
altogether, but this sanction is
not to be used as an instrument
of ‘Euratomic’ planning policy.
“Subject to this overall
authority, the atomic-power
industries in the member-
countries are to be free to
develop along national lines,
although co-operation with
Euratom’s investment plans is
expected. In addition, it is
anticipated that common installa-
tions will also be built, in which
countries outside the six may
also participate.”
One of the most important
aspects of the plan, the “Finan-
cial Times” writer adds, is in the
“pooling of knowledge within
the community”: “Not only are
the results of research in one
country to be made known to
all, but information acquired
through bilateral agreements
with outside countries —such as
the Belgo-American agreement
—is to be similarly pooled. Co-
operation in research is to be
advanced by setting up a
common research-centre. This
will consist of at least five ex-
perimental reactors- and a uni-
versity specialising in atomic
physics.
“Euratonr will probably be
financed in the first place by the
requirement that each member-
country will devote to Euratom
c. fixed percentage of its expendi-
ture on nuclear-power develop-
ment. In addition, Euratom will
be empowered to raise loans in
the ordinary way on the capital
markets of the member-countries.
Since the scope of the initial
common-investment plans will
not be known until ratification,
the scale of Euratom finance is
also unknown at present. It is,
however, believed that the
national contributions to
Euratom will be in the region
of 20 per cent, to 25 per cent,
of national atomic-energy
budgets, and it is reported that
research expenditure of $215
million during the next five years
is to be provided for.”
The original Euratom pro-
posals were to be concerned only
with the peaceful uses of atomic
power—and the Paris agreement
of 1954 prevents Germany from
manufacturing atomic weapons
—but France decided that she
could not renounce the right [to
manufacture nuclear weapons]
and in order to save Euratom
the proposals had to be altered
to include the military use of
fissile material.
“The ‘compromise’ agreement
reached was that France —and
presumably Italy and Benelux
also—was permitted to manu-
facture atomic weapons, but only
within Euratom (that is, subject
to official inspection and full
exchange of information, etc.),
but would not explode one for
four years after the signature of
the treaty.”
Dollar-earners
Bradford “Wool Record” com-
ment on the British Common-
wealth’s biggest dollar-earners:
“The two [rubber and wool]
have vied with each other ever
since 1945 in the size of their
dollar-sales: in the period 1950-
1952 rubber headed the dollar-
earning list, but it gave way to
wool in 1953 and 1954. In money
terms neither commodity is now
bringing in anything like the
dollar-revenue of the Korean-
war period. In 1955 Common-
wealth wool earned $l3B million,
compared with the huge figure
of $450 million in 1951 ; last
year rubber brought in $l6B
million, against $472 million in
1951.
“When the [U.K.] Govern-
ment talks of a drive to increase
sales to the United States and
Canada, we in this country
[Britain] usually think in terms
of whisky and woollens, pottery,
motorcars and . Hawick’s
sweaters. But the bulk of the
Commonwealth’s dollar-earnings
do not come from manufactured
goods, but from raw materials :
in addition to wool and rubber,
big dollar-winners are tin, jute,
cocoa and tea, hides and skins,
diamonds and minerals.
“In 1955 manufactured goods
accounted for $574 million out
of total dollar-earnings of $1421
million. In the former is
included the dollar-revenue
from sales of British wool goods,
which amounted in that year to
about $B5 million.
“Thus it might be claimed that
the total contribution which wool
made to the Commonwealth
dollar-pool was $223 million, or
16 per cent. That is an impres-
sive figure, but it is, nevertheless,
well below the performance of
wool and wool-products in the
boom year of 1951, when they
brought in 27 per cent, of the
Commonwealth’s dollars.”
The British
Commonwealth
“Manchester Guardian” com-
ment on Australian High Com-
missioner Sir Eric Harrison’s
“thinking aloud” on the notion
that “a distinction should be
made between the ‘British’ and
‘non-British’ countries and that
permanent machinery and a
secretariat should be set-up in
London for the ‘British’ Com-
monwealth” :
“Certainly there will be mur-
murs of approval from old
Conservatives still hankering
after the late Crown Common-
wealth of blood-relations. They
will also win the support, one
imagines, of those who, like the
‘Daily Express,’ still speak of
‘our Empire’ when they mean
the Commonwealth. Dreams of
returning to an old dead world
are more comfortable than
taking off the blinkers and
studying the new world in which
they live.
“But, to take only a single
case on the other side, one can
hardly see Canada’s wishing to
assist at what must be, in effect,
a division of the present mem-
bers of the Commonwealth into
first- and second-class or full-
members and associate-members.
“Canada’s Government be-
lieves in the future of the
United Nations. As Mr. Lester
Pearson has made clear, his
Government admits that there
are irresponsible as well as
responsible members of the
United Nations, but does not
regard this as a reason for
abandoning that organisation,
ignoring its resolutions, or
calling it a useless venture.
Canada understands the vital
importance of the ‘uncommitted’
members of the Commonwealth
India especially - and re-
peatedly has welcomed the
younger members of the Com-
monwealth as they grow to
maturity.
“And could anyone seriously
expect the ‘non-British’ members
—lndia, Pakistan and Ceylon
today, probably Ghana, Nigeria
and Malaya, among others, to-
morrow—to accept any such
downgrading, a§ Sir Eric’s
scheme implies? It would be
the quickest way to alienate
valued friends,”
Canada's Immigrants
British views on increasing
emigration fall broadly into two
opposing schools: that the U.K.
is losing its youth and skills at
a far greater rate than it can
stand; or that Britain’s future
lies in the increasing dissemina-
tion of its people throughout the
Commonwealth.
Subscribing to the latter view,
E. F. G. Haig, in London
“Spectator,” suggests that the
only future for Britain “worthy
of her past” is in “maximum
integration with the Common-
wealth” :
“At present, ‘crowded at the
rate of 540 to the square-mile
(habitable Canada has 10,
habitable Australia five), import-
ing half our food and most of
our raw materials, precariously
balanced on a knife-edge
economy, we risk starvation in
peace and annihilation in war.
“Meanwhile the once-British
Commonwealth is growing
foreign. The proportion of
British to total immigrants into
Canada fell from 81 per cent, in
1947 to 27 per cent, in 1955:
into Australia, from 77 per
cent, to 44 per cent. Of non-
domestic investment in Canada,
90 per cent, is from the U.S.
“When these world Powers of
the future have filled up with
Germans, Dutch, Italians and
Slavs, we [Britain] shall regret
the blindness which gave the
temporary demands of our crazy
economy priority over long-term
planning for the joint future of
Britain and her daughter-
nations.
“If we, over the next two
decades, could send ten-million
of our people, of all ages, classes
and occupations, to Canada,
Australia, the Rhodesias and
New Zealand, with corre-
sponding dispersal of capital and
industries, we could establish
British stock, British interests,
and a British future, unshakably
in those countries. And we at
home could feed ourselves.”
Commenting on Canada’s
ability to absorb migrants,
Toronto “Globe and Mail”
notes that it is “obviously
related to her population and to
her economic well-being”:
“In recent years, however,
while rather startling increases
were recorded both in popula-
tion and prosperity, immigration
went into a steady decline. This
trend was reversed last year,
when it shot back up again
to 164,857.
“The increase is important
only if it portends a new policy.
It was not so startling in itself.
The high point of post-war
immigration was 1951, when
194,000 persons arrived. The
figure was 30,000 less in 1952
and 1953; it dropped again in
1954 and slumped to a low of
110,000 in 1955. Last year’s in-
crease brought immigration
back to about the 1952 level. It
is still far from the 1951 peak.
“Yet Canada’s ability to take
immigrants has vastly improved
since 1951. Her population has
increased by 2,300,000; the gross
national product has risen by
$B,OOO million the number of
persons at work has gone up
more than 800,000. If we could
(as we did) absorb close to
200,000 in 1951, we should be
able to absorb at least 250,000
this year.
“Canada’s greatest weakness
as a nation has been her lack of
manpower. There are empty
spaces, new frontiers, not only
in a physical sense but also in
the skills and professions of a
newly-industrialised nation.
Every qualified analysis of the
Canadian economy has pointed
out this need for manpower.
“While the increase in
immigration last year is, there-
fore, to be welcomed, there still
exists a policy of passivity
toward encouraging newcomers.
For the skills she needs, Canada
can no longer depend on
voluntary haphazard immigra-
tion. She must go into the field
and actively recruit persons of
skill and ambition.”
Various Voices
Air Chief Marshal Sir Dermot
Boyle: “History shows that
every offensive weapon j s
countered. Who are we to say
that five years hence we will not
be destroying ballistic missiles
100 miles up?”
Viscount Hailsham : “If I
were asked in a single word or
a single sentence what I wished
to see Britain’s new Govern-
ment bring about, I should not
say prosperity, although we want
to bring about prosperity very
much indeed. I should not say
peace, although we all want
peace very much indeed. 1
should say no more or less than
a new sense of spiritual values,
of service, of comradeship,
without which none of the other
objectives can be achieved and
without which in any event none
is really worth achieving.’"'
Britain’s new Chancellor of
the Exchequer, Peter Thorney-
croft: “I do not think that the
password is security. The
increased security of the
ordinary man is a valuable gain
to society. But it is not enough.
A young man at 21 is not really
inspired to go out, to risk
himself, to adventure, by the
thought of an old-age pension at
65. Security is not enough.”
Mr. Dulles: “If [the Com-
munists] get this area [the Middle
East] they in effect will have
got Western Europe without a
war.”
Mr. Butler: “In Europe alone
since the war one-hundred-
million people have been forcibly
absorbed into the Soviet bloc
and system. In Asia and Africa
in the same period between five-
-11 und r e d-m ill io n and six-
hundred-million people have
been helped to nationhood by
British Governments of both
parties.”
General Norstad, (Supreme
Allied Commander, Europe):
“The trouble with Anglo-
American relations is that when
they are calm—and, happily for
the rest of the world, they have
been calm most of the time —
they attract little notice; but
when they are momentarily
disturbed, as in the recent past,
they attract either the wounding
epithets reserved for the warmest
of friends or—worse —soothing
banalities. That our countries
are linked by idealism is a fact
long celebrated among us. That
we are also linked by self-
interest is an equally important
fact.”


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire £2/18/6 Foreign £B/6/-
Please add exchange fo country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Separator
By ALEX BLACK
THE family was back from
the funeral, three sons
and three daughters, the
sons with their wives and
the daughters with their
husbands.
The youngest daughter was in
her fifties and it was her first
family-reunion since she married
twenty-five years before. Dad
had been eighty-seven, and
there were no assets to speak of.
Everything had been managed
with decorum ; there had been
no weeping and no fuss. They
gathered round the table to
discuss the past, the future and
Dad.
“Ah, well,” said Hec, the
eldest boy, “he never made much
money and he never made any
enemies, and I don’t remember
ever seeing him in a proper
rage. He worked hard and didn’t
booze and was frightened of
nothing. Snakes, horses, steam-
engines or wild cattle—it was
all the same to Dad.
“I’ve often marvelled none of
us was killed or even injured
after we went farming. That
was just after Laura was born
and I was about ten —the dairy-
farm. He soon had us kids
milking cows before and after
school, and the school was a
three-mile walk, but neither the
milking nor the walking did any
of us any harm. Nell was milk-
ing cows when she was five years
old. There’s Tom, now a shire-
president. And look at Nell —
took on teaching, qualified for
a Melbourne school and finished-
up with a degree. And the rest
of us have done all right, too.
T>UT that steam separator put
** the wind up me.
Dad couldn’t understand
why I was windy about it. I
think I was eleven then, and all
I knew about steam-engines was
that sooner or later they
exploded. I don’t believe Dad
knew any more about it than I
did, but he didn’t show any lack
of confidence. I used to light
the boiler-fire every morning,
and before Dad went in to
breakfast he would check and
oil-up, and he’d be finished
breakfast by the time the steam
started to blow-off, showing it
was ready to drive the separator.
On a morning with a heavy
frost when the oil wouldn’t run
out of the can Dad put the whole
canful on top of the boiler to be
thinned-down by the heat.
Normally we had started for
school by this time, but this was
a Saturday and no school, so I
was haying breakfast with Dad.
We both had an ear cocked for
the sound of the steam blow-
off, but it seemed slow this
morning, and presently Dad
remarked on it and said we’d
better go and see if the fire had
gone out.
As soon as he got to the boiler-
house he saw what was wrong.
The tin of oil was sitting on'top
of the escape-valve, completely
stopping any steam blowing-off.
The pressure-gauge was on its
second time round, and the
needle had a v bend in it like a
sickle, while the boiler was
quivering on its foundations.
Without thinking, Dad
grabbed the tin of oil, and the
suddenly-released pressure blew
the whole escape-valve clean
through the shingle-roof with a
roar, and no part of the escape-
valve was seen again.
'M'EXT' minute the boiler-house
' was full of steam, and the
roar of it escaping could be
heard a mile away. In seconds
I was fifty yards away myself,
but from where I stopped I
could see into that boiler-house
and all I could see was steam.
The blow-off hadn’t put the
wind up Dad. He was in the
middle of the steam, trying to
fan it away with his hat, so he
could see what could be done
about saving some of it to
separate with: He did no good,
though. Couldn’t devise a new
escape-valve in that time and
never was much with mechanical
affairs, anyway.
Well, now we were in a proper
mess. No steam ; couldn’t drive
the separator ; no skim for the
calves and pigs ; no cream for
the factory—fourpence ha’penny
a pound then —and no income;
a new escape-valve and gauge
required; no telephone ; and
long before motor-cars; town
twelve miles away . . . and it was
Saturday.
“Oh, well, Hec,’’ Dad said, “get
the horses in. I’ll have to drive
in and see what I can do. Give
the calves some of the fresh
milk and . let the pigs out.
They’ll have to manage on the
grass.”
He got back after dark. No
parts to be had —he’d have to
write to Melbourne. The
evening’s milk was waiting by
this time, too —every can and
tub and bucket about the place
full; the first morning’s milk sour.
We got the pigs in again and
let them have the sour milk —
then we had to boil all the cans
and buckets it’d been in ; we’d
have to use them for the next
milking.
Next day, Sunday, we had the
horses in first thing; same two
as yesterday ; only ones we had
—just grassed and not much
kick in them after the twenty-
four-mile trip to town yesterday.
No chaff, either ; place was too
hilly for cultivation ; no good
fof anything but cows.
“Well,” said Dad, “they’ll have
to take me around the neighbors,
chaff or no chaff.”
Took all day to get around
about six neighbors; bogged
twice. Nothing doing they
were all battling, much as we
were. But about dark we heard
of an idle hand-separator at
Mountain Top, about twelve
miles away in the hills.
It was raining by this, and
we couldn’t get there in a buggy,
even in daylight. We'd have to
try it tomorrow with the sledge.
We gave the oldest milk to the'
pigs and calves and boiled all
the containers again for the
morning.
again, and still
raining. The sledge was a
one-horse job, and anyhow the
track wasn’t wide enough for
two horses. Which horse? Both
were pretty wonky after their
two full days’ work.
“Put Tommy in,” Dad said ;
“he's the younger. If we can get
the sledge up there it will slide
all the way down, itself," coming
home. You’ll have to come with
me, Hec, and fix a drag-rope to
hang on to coming down the
mountain, or the sledge will
slide on to Tommy’s heels and
cripple him.”
So off we went in the rain,
Tommy and the sledge and Dad
and me thoroughly wet in the
first mile, and sliding all over
the place.
A man named Brown Dad
had never met leased Mountain
Top, but when we arrived he
was away looking after cattle
on another peak, and they
didn’t know when he’d be back.
So there was nothing to do but
wait, and presently it was
dinner-time and we were invited
to sit at the table with the
family.
Dad told the story of our
steam separator and who we were
and what we wanted and where
we heard there was an idle hand-
separator here. He was a fine-
looking man at that time and
put over a pretty good tale; all
right. It was mostly true ; and
Mrs. Brown seemed impressed,
and when the rain eased-off sent
one of her boys to see if he
could find his Dad and tell him
what was doing.
She sent another of the kids
to give Tommy a couple of
sheaves of hay and invited us
up to the huge stone fireplace to
dry out a bit. The fireplace
carried a colossal old-time kettle,
with a brass tap. They call them
“fountain?’' now, but I haven’t
seen one for years. It was
suspended by a chain from an
iron rail let into each side of
the chimney. It seemed never to
be off the boil, and nearly as
good as a modern hot-water
service.
Well, time was getting on and
we had twelve miles of sliding
down the hills to do, so it looked
as if some of it would have to
be done in the dark. But we
were pretty dry again by now,
and the rain was pretty light.
About three-o’clock Mr.
Brown turned up and Dad soon
came to terms with him. So we
put Tommy in' and he dragged
the sledge round to where the
separator was. But it was too
long for our transport. When
balanced, it stuck out over the
front of the sledge till it fouled
the swingle-tree we couldn’t
start like that.
More confabs ; and it turned
out that Mr. Brown had a sledge
longer than ours. A temporary
exchange was arranged —we
would bring their sledge back
when we returned the separator.
AND now it was four-o’clock,
and we were ready to start.
We should have been on the
way long before. We started
well, too, because the track was
fairly wide there and not steep,
and Tommy was showing the
benefit of the Browns’ hay. But
after a while the rain thickened,
and soon we had reached the
steep, narrow part of the track.
I was hanging on to my drag-
rope ; Dad was hanging on to
Tommy ; and Tommy was hang-
ing on to the greasy track. Of
course, he had no shoes on —I
doubt if he’d ever been shod in
his life; certainly not since
we’d had him ; wasn’t a metal
road within miles, and shoes cost
money —and three long days in
succession are too much for any
grass-fed horse.
There was hardly any level
track in the whole twelve miles.
It was all downhill, so Tommy
didn’t have to pull much, only
keep the front end of the sledge
on the track. I’m sure he
couldn’t have done that, even,
without Brown’s hay. But I
didn’t have time to worry about
Tommy ; that was Dad’s job. I
was fully occupied with my
drag-rope, keeping the tail of the
sledge from going over the edge
of the track and the whole
caboodle from slipping on to
Tommy’s heels.
We weren’t much more than
halfway, and it was getting dark.
Tommy's head was hanging so
low that his nose was just deal-
ing the mud. The sledge had
skidded on to Dad's foot at one
stage and he had a considerable
limp, but there was no word of
complaint from him. I had been
down several times and was
covered in mud and my hands
were sore and blistered from
that blasted drag-rope.
WHEN we reckoned we were
about three miles from home
and feeling we would just about
make it, we came to an extra-
muddy patch. Someone had
given it the standard treatment
for those times by laying
saplings across the track to form
a temporary corduroy surface.
Now, a wheeled vehicle will
travel a corduroy-track fairly
well. It has plenty of clearance
for ends or broken branches
sticking up. But a sledge is a
different proposition. Presently
the middle rail of our sledge
caught in one of those loose
ends and rode on it until the
sledge was balanced on that butt
about two feet above the mud.
Tommy stopped. I hung on
to my rope. Dad jumped to the
front to try to ensure that in the
next instant when the sledge
came down it would still be on
the track and not over its edge,
taking Tommy with it. We
manoeuvred it down all right—
right into the mud, but with the
butt still jambed in the middle
rail of the sledge.
Now we were in a mess. It
was raining again, and dark, and
Tommy couldn’t pull the sledge
off the butt. What else could we
do? The first thing was to
undo the lashings of the
separator and get it off the
sledge.
We managed at last, paddling
about in the mud and the dark;
upended the sledge and got the
butt free. Then .we got the
separator back on again, handle
a bit damaged' and one of the
legs bent —but nothing a bit of
fencing-wire and the axe
wouldn’t fix. Feeling around in
the dark we retrieved some of
the rope we had unfastened,
relashed the separator to the
sledge, hooked Tommy on again,
and were ready for another start.
BUT Tommy had had it. He
slipped down in the mud in
the middle of the track. He
wouldn’t get up and we couldn’t
move him over, and there was
barely room to walk past him,
and it was raining and dark. Dad
didn’t say much', but he didn’t
show, any sign of giving up the
struggle ; he considered the
situation.
Presently he’d made up his
mind.
“Look here, Hec. We could
pull it the rest of the way our-
selves if we could get it past
Tommy . . . Take the separator
off again, and we might manage
to get the sledge past him by
standing it on its edge. Then put
a couple of these saplings down,
and we could roll the separator
over to the sledge in front of
Tommy and come back for him
tomorrow. Let’s give it a go.
And we did. I don’t know how
long it took or how we managed.
We knocked a few bits off
Tommy in the struggle to get
past him, but we got the sledge
and the separator in front of
him, and the separator lashed
on again. Then we took one of
Tommy’s chains to drag with,
and battled that last three miles
for home, a feed and a sleep.
We managed that, too. There
was blood in the boots of both
of us, as well as scratches and
cuts all over us, but Dad had
the separator working by the
time 1 woke in the morning, and
it worked for a long time, too.
'T'HAT’S the sort of thing that
was always happening on
farms, those days, and none of
us any the worse for it, then
or now. But there weren’t many
who could take it like Dad did.
LANDSCAPE
A magnificent view! You agree?
Twenty miles of tawny download, here to the sea.
It’s very peaceful. A lamb bleats
In a gully. What is it the land, the landscape waits
For, seems to wait for? This illusion
Of waiting has something to do with this other illusion,
of motion •
Where the cloud panorama, the inverted cloud landscape,
wind-driven,
Is ponderously moving under heaven.
“Heaven” ? Why did l use that word ? I’m leading
Toward a thought the opposite of peaceful, reading
Something Mportant into geology.
There are ranges and ranges of mountains behind us.
See !
Turn around —
But what’s beneath this peace, beneath this untroubled
ground ?
The most appalling tensions
Mind can imagine. Billions of tons
Pressing, crushing, cracking the crust
Of poor old earth. Something must
Go. And something does
Now and then. And so with us.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
Missing Friend
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
ELSIE ROSS or BERYL KENDALL,
niece and grand-niece respectively of
GEORGE PLAVELLE, formerly of 299
Victoria Road, Gladesville, please com-
municate with WINDEYER DIVE & CO.,
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney, Solicitors for
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY OP
N.S.Wj_ LTD., 25 O’Connell Street, Syd-
ney, Executor of the Estate of GEORGE
PLAVELLE, deceased.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GLORIA DAWN MORRISEY late of
3 Jarvie Road Cringilla in the State of
New South Wales AND STANISLAV
TRNKA late of 37 Steel Street Cringilla
in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE THAT JOSEPH WILLIAM MOR-
RISES has filed a Petition No. 4227 of
1956 for a Divorce from GLORIA DAWN
MORRISEY on the ground of her
adultery with STANISLAV TRNKA If
you or either of you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 17th May 1957 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
GREAVES, NEWTON & WANNAN, Soli-
citors, of 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
NSW
NOW-i
•it
POWERFUL-MORE VERSATILE
ACAiN OUTDATING EVERY OTHER TRACTOR
35
i
Check the NEW Ferguson features below and ask for a demonstration
You will see for yourself the Ferguson 35 has more of the advantages you need
the all important basic benefits of the Ferguson System—-than any other tractor of its size
on the market. Ferguson tried, tested, and now improved.
NEW Hydraulic control selects and
*“ maintains uniform working depth,
controls speed of response, gives
accuracy in work never known before.
NEW Variable drive power take off, If in.
spline.
NEW Dual clutch-with live P.T.O. (De Luxe
Model).
NEW Engine Increased H.P.
NEW ran g e gearbox giving 6 forward
i vi- rr speeds, 2 reverse.
NEW Back axle.
NEW inde P endent Brakes —Both pedals
operated by right foot.
NEW Easier steering damps out shock.
Front, Mid and Rear implement
mounting pads.
NEW Safety starter turn key to start.
NEV/ Comfort and convenience features
including foam rubber seat with
back rest (De Luxe Model).
KEROSENE, PETROL, DIESEL MODELS
For full illustrated literature, prices, etc., on the New "35” see your Local
Dealer or write to :
a.IEK MW mm
lern^M
BRITISH TRACTOR & IMPLEMENTS PTY. LTD.
0 156-158 SYDNEY STREET, NEW FARM, BRISBANE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Handy Hints for the Farm;
also, Australian Barkers and Biters,
by Kaleski. —6476.
To buy Low’s Billy Book. —6477.
To buy House of Winston Blaker.
—6478.
To buy copy of The Abominations
of Modern Society, by Rev. T. De
Witt Talmage, and books of sermons
by the same author.—6479.
Joan Cowling, 134 Victoria-road,
Cambridge, England—32; single;
bright disposition; interested in Aus-
tralia ;> fond of home-life, books,
music—would like Australian man
pen-friend.
To buy copy of Charles Shaw’s
Outback Occupations.- —6480.
Information Sought
Origin of name of the N.S.W. train
The Fish ?
The N.S.W. Railways Department,
which officially recognises the name,
gives this explanation: A special train
for the Blue Mountains was intro-
duced in the 1860’s, when the driver’s
name was John Heron. Railwaymen
and residents began to remark “Here
comes Heron,” which became
corrupted to “Here comes Herrin’ ”
and eventually to “Here comes the
Big Fish.” There is no departmental
record, however, to support the
popular legend that the train also had
a guard named Pike and a fireman
named Salmon. (The Fish, now
electrified, runs down from Mt.
Victoria in the morning, and up in
the evening.)
* * * *
(1) When was the Royal Agricul-
tural Society of N.S.W. founded?
(2) When was its first show held ?
(1) At a meeting in Sydney on
July 5, 1822, ffhe first moves were
made to form a society designed to
assist and encourage the raising of
stock and the growing of crops. It
was named the Agricultural Society
of New South Wales. Governor Bris-
bane was the first patron, and Sir
John Jamison first president. After
t doing some useful work, mainly in
agriculture and fruitgrowing, the
society died out about 1836. During
the following two or three decades
several new societies were formed,
such as the Floral and Horticultural
Society, the Penrith Agricultural
Association and the Cumberland
Agricultural Association; this last-
named association, in March, 1859,
adopted the name of the Agricultural
Society of New South Wales, and in
Oct., 1891, Queen Victoria granted
it the right to use the prefix Royal.
(2) At the 1822 meeting it was decided
to hold a show on the first Wednesday
of each October; the first, known
as the Parramatta Fair, was held in
Oct., 1824, and several others were
also held. Various shows, or
exhibitions, were then held by the
succeeding societies, and the first one
held by the renamed 1859 society was
at Parramatta in 1860. In 1869 the
society held its first show in Sydney,
in Prince Alfred Park, where the
shows continued to be put on till
1880. There was no show the follow-
ing year, and at Easter, 1882, the
show was transferred to Moore Park
Showground, where it is still held.
* * * *
What causes so-called “corruga-
tions” in roads ?
[From R. S. Johnston, Secretary,
N.S.W. Department of Main Roads.J
The causes of corrugations in
gravel-roads has been the subject of
investigation for many years. On
present available information the
question might be answered in the
following manner. Corrugations tend
to occur in all cases where smooth
surfaces are exposed to fast-moving,
sliding or rolling loads. They are
most obvious on road-surfaces, but
also occur on railway-rails, tram-
way overhead-wires, brake-drums, etc.
The softer and more easily deformed
the surface over which the loads
pass, the more liable it is to the
formation of corrugations. The
weight of a vehicle depresses the
gravel-road surface under the wheels.
As the vehicle advances, the depres-
sion moves, too, and tends to roll or
push the surface in the direction the
vehicle is moving. The material
pushed in front of the wheel cannot
escape and tends to build up with
increasing movement. This increases
the resistance to.further pushing, until
a point is reached when the load rides
over this built-up material, and then
repeats the action on the other side.
This is the action that results in
corrugation. The corrugations pro-
duced by one vehicle are minute, but
the accumulative .effects of a number
of vehicles may produce marked
corrugation. This varies with the
speed and volume of traffic, climate
and the nature of the material with
which the roads are paved.
Brief Answers
A.H.D.: If the estate is as valuable
as you say, you should see a solicitor.
Cannot tell you who is an authority
on estate matters, but you could ask
at the office of the Law Institute (3
Castlereagh-street, Sydney). Free
legal advice can sometimes be
obtained from the Public Solicitor,
104 Hunter-street, Sydney
H.H.W.: (1) An intestacy arises when
someone dies leaving property and
without making a will. The effects
of intestacy are many, varied and
expensive, and depend entirely on
the size of the estate, the number of
people among whom it should be
divided, and the relationship of those
people to the deceased. Generally
one or two of the people who expect
to share in the estate take <put letters
of administration and deposit a bond.
They then proceed to divide the
estate between the various Govern-
ments and the various persons entitled
under the law of intestacy in exactly
the same way as an executor distri-
butes an estate between the Govern-
ments and the persons entitled under
the will. (2) Very briefly the
Testator’s Family Maintenance Act,
more properly referred to as the
Testator’s Family Maintenance and
Guardianship of Infants Act,
1916/1934, as amended, provides that
if any person since October 7, 1915,
dies and disposes of his property in
such a way as his widow or
her husband or children or
any of them are left without adequate
provision f or t h e i r maintenance,
education or advancement in life, the
court ma y at j ts dj scre tion order that
such provision as the testator has
omitted to make may be made out of
the estate. Other beneficiaries bear
the burden of the court’s provision in
proportion to their shares F.S.:
The only laws likely to exist to pre-
vent sending plants inter-State would
be agricultural regulations forbidding
bringing the plant into the State in
which the regulations have been made,
If you desire to send such material
inter-State you would be well advised
to inquire from the Department of
Agriculture in the State to which you
intend to send it. An interesting
question might arise as to whether
such a regulation would in all cases be
valid J.R.K.: The decision of an
assessment-appeal tribunal binds tthe
Repatriation Commission for twelve
months. If your appeal is refused
you should wait twelve months and
apply again... .W.F.E. and A.P.:
Write U.S. Information Library, 46
Margaret-street, Sydney Yarran:
The present-participle of “centre” is
spelt “centring.” The American
spelling for the participle is
ing” (from the spelling “center”)
A. : (1) No information about a
ship of that name wrecked in that
area. (2) Lady Elliott Island is one
of the southermost islands of the
Great Barrier Reef, some 60 miles
from Bundaberg. (3) One book that
should be helpful to you is
Adventuring in Coral Seas, by Albert
F. Ellis (1936) J.R.M.: Feather
Your Nest, by E. O. Schlunke, ran
as a serial in The Bulletin from
Sept. 15, 1954, to Nov. 17, 1954
L.D.: (1) An article on the “Dog on
the Tuckerbox,” by John Meredith and
Patricia Francis, appeared in B.
18/4/’56, a copy of which will be sent
to you on request. The matter was
also discussed in Service Department,
B. 11/7/’56. (2) An article on J. F.
Archibald, by W. E. Fitz Henry,
appeared B. 11/1/’56 T.C.M.: (1)
It is out of print (it was not published
by The Bulletin), and no stocks are
held. (2) Chance of it being reprinted
now is very slight.. • It
means, roughly, “place of” or “home
of” John Whitton (1819-98), “the
father of the N.S.W. railways,” was
chief engineer from 1856 to 1890, and
built 2000 miles of lines during that
time, in which he had sole charge of
the construction of railways, and of
railway-survey, jn N.S.W K.A.:
See Blue Gum Clippers and Whale
Ships of Tasmania, by Will Lawson
(in conjunction with the Shiplovers’
Society of Tasmania), available at
capital-city public libraries T.M.:
No records of the Governors of that
country in that century are readily
available in Australia C.E.W.:
(1) Melbourne. (2) During the early
1920’s S.J.A.: (1) The example is
a rondel, the old form, of which
the rondeau is probably a corruption,
Rondels and rondeaux vary consider-
ably from the general plan, which is
a 13-line (in some case a 10-line)
poem using only two rhyme-ends,
and repeating lines at set points in
the poem. The most famous rondel is
“Le temps a lassie son menteau,” by
Charles Duke of Orleans (1391-1466).
This repeats the first two lines as
the seventh and eighth, and the first
lines only as thirteenth: abba,
abA(r)B(r), abbaA(r). The example
submitted is irregular in its last
repetitions, but if this is not the doing
of the translater, it seems that many
liberties were taken with the form
by the old writers. (2) If “us” is
read as “as” in the line that puzzles
you, it will make sense Tobruk
Rat: Write Stott’s Correspondence
College, 149 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney M.H.D.: (1) Write Angus
and Robertson, Ltd., 66-68 Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne, C.l. (2) By goo
and Beyond, by Rob Webster, a his-
tory of the Mirrool district (N.S.W.),
was reviewed on the Red Page
(6/2/’57)... .K.R.: Write Queensland
Health and Home Affairs Department,
William-street, Brisbane... .M.F.S.:
Write Country Press, Ltd., 5 Barrack-
street, Sydney R.S.: Yes, we see
what you mean; but we don’t think
we can add to our earlier reply.
Not one of the works on astronomy
consulted (such as Astronomy for
Everyman, in its article on the sun),
goes into the question at all.
Certainly the sun’s yearly journey
through the zodiac is only an apparent
journey; but it is the only relationship
between sun and zodiac discussed in
serious scientific works. The relation-
ship which interests you seems to be
mixed-up more with astrology.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(3/3/'57)
Heavy rains are indicated for the north and south
coasts of Queensland during April, and reasonably good
rains should occur in a large part of the State, though the
central coast, central highlands and Maranoa areas are
likely to have only poor rainfall.
General rains, above average, should occur in N.S.W.
during April. Rains should then be heaviest on the coastal
areas, with the likelihood of some flooding.
Victoria is likely to have poor rainfall in April, though
there should be m'oderate falls in portion of the north-east,
east-central and west coast.
South Australia is also likely to have poor rainfall
during April, although the Main cycle indicates moderate
falls in the agricultural areas and on part of the west coast.
April should be mainly a dry month in Western
Australia, apart from moderate rain on the south coast.
Heavy general rains are likely in May.
LENNOX WALKER.


liilill
m
ms
v » *
mm
mm
Cane-ite keeps costs down
in new gymnasium
In 1955, eight gymnasiums like this were
completed in Sydney schools. They are
very large 95 feet by 40 feet to allow
for most competitive games.
The large area of the roof (4,000 sq. ft.)
made it advisable to choose a heat-insulating
material for the ceiling. Cane-ite was chosen,
both because it is an excellent insulator, and
because it gives a handsome appearance at
a comparatively low cost. The resulting cool-
ness of the building during the summer
months has been greatly appreciated by
both teachers and pupils.
Three types of Cane-ite are available . . .
natural buff . . . primed (ready for painting)
and Ivory Cane-ite, which is excellent for
light reflection.
Available 6,7, 8,9, 10 and 12 feet long by
3 or 4 feet wide.
cv?;;
CANE-ITE
Zk&uMM ad
. dec voided
Manufactured by
The Colonial Sugar Refining
Co. Ltd.,
Building Materials Division
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
EASIER CAPONISING
Although it is only about
five years since it was
generally adopted in Australia,
chemical caponising has had a
boosting effect on the consump-
tion of table-poultry, not only at
the peak periods of Easter and
Christmas, but throughout the
year. Hotels and restaurants now
frequently put roast capon on
the menu as well as roast chicken.
The principal advantages of
the chemical treatment over the
surgical operation are its speed,
simplicity, lower mortality-rate ;
also, the effect of the chemical
used wears-off if the birds are
RIGHT
WRONG
not killed after about three
months, and they regain their
virility.
The synthetic female-sex-
hormone hexoestrol has been
proved by various testing
authorities to be the most
effective chemical for caponising.
Its effect is to temporarily
“blanket” the male hormones,
Ram fertility is
adversely affected
when a hot spell
coincides with the
mating season. .This
was proved in
America where, as
the result of an
experiment, rams
showed a notable
increase in fertility
after being kept in
air-conditioned hous-
ing at a temperature
of 65 deg. Fahrenheit.
Fortunately for Aus-
tralian graziers no
experiments are now
needed to prove the
wisdom of using
Elastrator Rubber
Rings for marking
and tailing lambs.
The Elastrator
method is now
accepted as being far
superior to the knife
because it means
much less risk of set-
back, fly-strike and
disease.
with the result that the cockerel
shows marked female charac-
teristics.
The comb and wattles pale
and shrivel, so that the birds
resemble pullets. They gain
weight and bloom and, when
killed, the carcasses are heavier
than those of untreated birds.
The flesh is well marbled with
fat, which makes for easy cook-
ing and tender eating.
The conservative weight-gain
is about eight to 10 per cent. At
a cost of around £6 a thousand
for treatment, that’s a very fair
return on weight alone, without
considering the time-saving of a
single injection or implantation.
The newer or smaller poultry-
man naturally meets one or two
problems when he starts caponis-
ing, particularly if he has to
implant single-handed. Gordon
Naylor, of Boots, who helps
introduce the treatment to new
poultrymen (Boots discovered
the chemical method of treat-
ment in England about 10 years
ago) makes these points for
easier treatment:
It is necessary to keep a close
watch on birds for • a fortnight
after implantation. Birds are
usually implanted between six
and 10 weeks for killing between
12 and 18 weeks. They are
very easily unsettled the first
two or three weeks after treat-
ment, and it’s advisable to
temporarily remove birds which
are slow to take, since they
retain their normal virility and
will treat the other birds as
females.
They start treading, and since
this is largely imitative, even the
birds well advanced in treat-
ment will copy them. This leads
to severe cannibalism, with
feather- and vent-picking, and the
resultant damage and losses.
Slow takes are obvious because
they retain their comb-color. If
there is no obvious reduction in
the size of the vent in a few days,
a bird is not going to take.
Treated birds should not be
moved around or their housing
changed.
The general approach to the
job of implantation can be
responsible for whether or not
the flock gets over-excited. The
aim should be to keep it as quiet
as possible. A good practice is
to catch all the birds first and
put them in cages. This will
avoid the problem of whether a
bird has or has not been treated
as the job progresses. If there
are not sufficient cages, a number
of birds should be treated and
placed in a cage, and then placed
in another pen.
As birds are being caught,
they should be held by one leg
each and close to the ground to
avoid flapping of wings and
frightening the free birds.
One person holding and one
implanting is the better way to
handle implanting, but where
the job must be done single-
handed, work in a corner, hang-
ing the bird from a stout wire-
hook by a leg, or work on a
bench with a heavy box or
something to butt the tail of the
bird against. With the bird’s neck
in the left-hand and the left-
forearm across its back, it will
keep quite still. Watch that the
hexoestrol tablets are out of the
way of a flapping wing.
Avoid working from your lap,
because it sets the bird up for
incorrect implanting ; that is,
implanting in the direction of
the head rather than in the direc-
tion of the tail.
In correct implantation, the
hexoestrol tablet is inserted high
up on the neck or the head of the
bird. This is a safeguard
against the possibility of any
tablet-residue remaining when
the bird is prepared for table.
(It is well to remember the heads
of treated birds should not be
fed to any other stock.) Care
should be taken to ensure it goes
between the skin and the flesh,
from where it is absorbed
gradually into the bloodstream.
The tablet does not need
crushing to perform or speed-
up its work. This will ruin the
work of the drug, possibly kill
the bird, and throw the whole
Hock into havoc.
The needle of the implanter
i points in the direction of the
tail, so that if a bird pulls back
its head suddenly the needle will
not slip and injure the skull or
brain.
With old birds the. practice is
to pull a feather and insert the
needle of the implanter in the
quill-hole, which helps to avoid
double penetration of the skin
with the needle coming out again,
thus failing to deposit the
caponising pellfet in the bird.
G.M.
I
Vitamin-A
“Effendi”: Although vital to
pigs and poultry, especially in
the summer, vitamin-A is not
so necessary for sheep. Depart-
mental livestock-advisers say
there is little evidence to support
the need for supplementary-
feeding of vitamin-A to sheep,
which can continue to have a low
intake of it for a long time with-
out apparent ill-effect.
“The money spent on vitamin-
A supplements could be spent
much better in providing good
feed, such as oats,” reports one
expert.
Nevertheless, some greenstuff
containing vitamin-A (such as
lucerne) is a great asset on every
property, whatever the type of
animal kept. Irrigation from a
big dam or bore guarantees this
valuable feed, even in dry
periods.
Kikuyu-planter
“Noore”: A mechanical
planter which can sow an average
waterway, 40 chains by half a
chain, with kikuyu-grass in half
a day has been demonstrated on
the Darling Downs (Q.).
The sprig-planter is copied
from a Bermuda planter brought
out by the Commonwealth. It
plants sprigs of kikuyu in a
furrow, places fertiliser with it,
and covers it over.
Kikuyu-grass spreads rapidly
over and through the ground by
means of runners. The surface-
runners and the underground-
stems root freely at the nodes,
anchoring the plant firmly in
the ground. Once established, the
grass will stand stock trampling
over it, and its dense growth
makes it ideal as a check to
erosion of the soil beneath.
The Downs problem is that
the rich black soil washes out
into deep gullies in flood-time.
Kikuyu-grass planted in water-
ways will encroach on these
gullies and control them. This
control is one of the first steps in
soil-conservation programmes on
the Darling Downs.
The use of a mechanical
planter to grass waterways will
do away with the tiring mattock-
planting practised by many
farmers striving to do the same
job. It would take a man a
week to do what the sprig-
planter does in half a day.
The machine is on rubbers
and plants rows 3ft. apart. By
sowing again down the middle of
of the two lines, the sprigs can
be planted 18in. apart, and if a
good shower then falls on them
good start is assured. Speed-
ing-up of soil-conservation must
follow.
Pigeon-pea
■ “W.C.Q.”: Getting attention
from dairyfarmers in central
Queensland who have poor land
which they would like to make
productive, pigeon-pea could be
a useful addition to grass in
many other parts of Australia.
The plant likes a warm climate
and a good deal of moisture for
best growth, but it is also worth
having in dry areas; it can stand
fairly cold winters.
Main point is that the pea will
grow up to 10ft. or more on
very indifferent country. I have
seen it thrive on soil too poor
to grow worth-while grass. It
can be planted in rows for wind-
breaks near fowl-runs, and the
ripe peas are liked by poultry.
It improves the ground, as can
be readily seen in its thick bushy
growth after having been
established on poor land for two
or three years. Cattle are fondest
of it when it is podding.
The main crop of pods,
usually heavy, is carried in
winter, after which the tree loses
much of its foliage, though it
comes on quick and often bears
another crop of peas before
Christmas. In the coastal
districts of central and north
Queensland, the tree will have
some pods at all seasons.
It is a plant suitable for
acclimatising along with strong-
growing grasses. Due to its high,
lasting protein-content, it is
handy when the grasses are
mature and lacking in protein.
At Home Hill (N.Q.), at least
one mixed-farmer has been put-
ting it in at the rate of 101 b. of
seed an acre on old cane-land,
and feeding it off a few hours a
day, along with the ratoon-cane
growing up from old stools. It s
a grand milk-producer, he
claims.
The peas are quite good for
table-use when young. In plant-
ing a few around the homestead,
dig holes about every 6ft. It is
rather attractive as a shrub,
being of a pleasant shade of
green.
Feeding Concentrates
“Agricola”: To follow some
of the advice given to cow-
cockies on feeding concentrates
a man would need to own a
stock-feed firm. Don’t think I’m
against feeding —I’m for it. But
unless you’ve cut your teeth on
a bag of protein-meal you can
get into awful trouble applying
methods suitable in one set of
circumstances to others entirely
different.
Bail-feeding has been going on
in Queensland for many years.
On the Atherton Tableland
they’ve been doing it for the last
20, to my knowledge. Before
the latest ideas of rapid milking
came in, most farmers fed the
concentrates in the bail and the
roughage in stalls outside, after
the cows had been milked. It
was a cumbersome sort of
arrangement w,hi c h meant
double-handling.
Now, when concentrates and
roughage are fed together, the
general idea is to have feeding-
stalls away from the bails. If
concentrates alone are fed, give
it to them while the machines
are busy getting the milk out of
them.
You have to be mighty care-
ful when you start to put con-
centrates on the menu. You
just can’t dish it up to the cows
on production alone; natural
roughage available has to be
taken into account.
For example, if you’re graz-
ing on lucerne alone, and feed-
ing concentrates, you can cut
down on the protein in the ration
and bump-up the carbohydrates.


•PHENOVIS' Brand of Phenofhiazine
B
■
11
PAYS A /
DIVIDEND/
TRADE MARK
St*
mm
* H
V
w
w*
m
9
m
V,%,!'/,.
w«
W'/i",
MM
aarnc
&
W"a
;
*
mm
1
«»S6
mmmmmmmmmm
H
ii>i«
11
itl
fcf
Wmm
&' '/''>///>/'•' &; A'2.3
'.'/1/'-
WOMM^O
zi£r~
4BT
CHECK worms in sheep with ‘Phenovis’ and increase the return from
each of your flock.
Phenothiazine Drenches are the most effective ... most economical used
by Australian graziers cost only 1/3 per sheep per year!
The New Superfine Quality
? . 'V
PHENOVIS
DRENCH
Insist upon the Superfine Quality front your usual supplier
I DEPENDABLE ANIMAL
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
ICI
mTICTJOJL pH_O DOCT
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
1514. PHE.SBX. 4010
On the other hand, when the
roughage is poor and rank more
protein will be needed.
This is very important,
because protein has to be
bought, and is expensive. At the
time of writing, meat-meal is
costing us about £55 a ton landed
at the shed in this Queensland
district. A lot of the grain can
be grown on the farm, and is
cheap by comparison. The care-
ful feeder watches these points
and, saves money.
You have to keep a weather-
eye on the costs when you feed
on production. A cow may give
three gallons a day on grass
alone. Her production may lead
you to feed concentrates to her
in such a way that she can only
convert part of it into milk;
the rest is lost. You could easily
part-up with 55.-worth of con-
centrates and get back 45.-worth
of milk. That bob loss on a
cow, multiplied, could put you
on the track in no time.
I remember a conversation
with Prof. Boutflour when he
was out here. I asked him to
work me out a concentrate-
ration for a cow giving three
gallons of milk a day and run-
ning on ordinary grass. He told
me what he would give such a
cow in England. When the
shock passed he asked me what
we paid for the various con-
centrates here. I told him, and
also mentioned the return for
our milk. After he recovered
from that, he worked out the
ration for me, and it was less
than was being fed at the time.
As the professor said: “You
have to have cheap concentrates
and a good price for your milk
before you can feed heavily.”
There’s a good deal of waste
with the stuff, too. Waste in
handling, and waste on the part
of the cow. Still, the man who
can grow his own grain and keep
a good pasture will get excellent
results from modest amounts of
concentrates, and that’s the way
to feed.
One of our greatest needs
when feeding for production in
he bail is a gadget fixed on
every unit of the machine so
that each cow’s milk is weighed
automatically.
Even in herds which are
tested, the tester only comes
once a month. The cost would
wreck you if he came once a
week. Yet, if you’re going to be
business-like about this feeding,
you really want to know each
cow’s production day by day. A
sort of self-measuring reservoir
above each bail would be the
shot. One that automatically
emptied into the milk-line when
the cups were taken off the cow.
This would save anyone hand-
ling the milk. Bucket-machines
are one way out, but they take
a lot of extra handling.
A big yard with a small inner
yard is ideal for handling the
cows. Bring a few into this
smaller yard every now and then
and you’ll have no trouble with
them in the bail. They’ll be
perfectly contented if they get
their ration of concentrate.
A final tip. If you think the
cows can’t get their ration down
in time to be turned-out when
the machines are due to come
off, try a coarser mix. They can
eat that quicker. In many parts
of Queensland the ration is
damped-down with molasses
and water. Apart from stopping
any dust, it’s easier to eat, and
the molasses is rich in calcium.
Antibiotics in U.S.A.
“F.”: A recent U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture survey
showed that more than half of
the formula-feeds provided for
poultry, pigs, and dairy- and
beef-cattle in the U.S.A. con-
tained low dosages of growth-
promoting antibiotics. About
half also had vitamin-812, which
was first identified in 1948. This
vitamin, a by-product of anti-
biotic manufacture, is needed in
livestock-feed now that animal-
proteins are being used less.
Stilboestrol for faster gains in
beef-cattle, and dienestrol-
diacetate for fattening poultry,
are hormones extensively
adopted by commercial feed-
mixers during the last year or
two.
Poultry and livestock feeders
find hormones readily available
in formula-feeds prepared by the
commercial mixers. Antibiotics
are furnished in formula-feeds,
concentrates, and in solvents
which can be added to the
drinking-water.
Only three of the antibiotics —
penicillin, aureomycin and terra-
mycin—have been used much
thus far in the formula-feeds,
but some prepared feeds for pigs
and poultry have bacitracin and
other antibiotics. About two-
thirds of the feed-mills use
penicillin in feeds for young
chickens, half of the mills in
layer- and breeder-feeds. Aureo-
mycin and terramycin, however,
are used in a proportion of 8
or 9 to 1 over penicillin in feeds
for the larger livestock.
Arsenicals (arsenic - bearing
compounds) are among the other
feed additives used to increase
the health and productivity of
animals, and have been used
extensively in poultry-feeds
during the past five years.
Certain surfactants (detergents)
are substituted for antibiotics in
a few poultry-mixes.
The surfactants, used for
supposed germicidal effect, are
regarded by the U.S.D.A. as
having a limited future in
competition with the superior
antibiotics. The arsenicals, which
U.S.D.A. says were tried unsuc-
cessfully as a therapeutic against
poultry diseases, often aid growth
and seem to improve feathering.
Of the 327 feed-mixers in-
cluded in the U.S.D.A. survey,
254 used antibiotics, 237 used
vitamin-812, and five used
surfactants in their formula-
feed preparations. The sampling
included in the survey repre-
sented a tenth of the feed-mills,
doing about a third of the
nation’s formula-feed business.
Poultry-feeds are mixed in 305
of these plants, dairy-feeds in
301, pig-feeds and beef-cattle-
feeds in 282. About 93 per cent,
of the poultry-mixers started
using antibiotics and vitamin-
812 within the last five years. In
the last three or four years, most
of the large poultryfeed-mixing
plants also adopted use of the
arsenicals.
Curing Bacon
“N.”: An old galvanised-iron
tank of 600 to 800 gallons will
make a safe and excellent smoke-
house for curing bacon.
Cut-out the top and a door in
the side; the latter to be closed
when smoking begins. Put
lengths of timber across the top
to hang the pieces of one or
more pigs as required. Spread
3in. or 4in. of sawdust or other
suitable material on the bottom
of the tank, and light in a
number of places so that the
smoke fully envelops the bacon.
Cover the top of the tank with
bagging.
Direct heat on the bacon will
cause the fat to drip, and could
cause a fire, so place a sheet of
galvanised-iron supported by a
few bricks or stones across, and
immediately under, the hanging
pieces. This will ensure that
smoke at the right temperature
envelops the meat.
There is no set time for the
curing, as this depends on the
quality of the meat and how it
takes the effect of the smoke.
The usual guide for the finished
piece is its color. A light-brown
or tan is a reliable indication of
good flavor. Let a day go after
smoking begins, then inspect
until bacon is the right color.
When it is, remove the bagging
and allow the bacon to cool
before handling.
The smoked bacon should be
hung in a dark, cool place, away
from dampness.
Skeleton-weed
“George”: If any Queensland
farmers follow “Agricola’s”
advice (B. 13/2/’57) and try to
destroy skeleton-weed by dig-
ging it out, they are likely to be
disappointed.
In the early stages of growth
the plant is an innocuous-looking
rosette and usually is not recog-
nised until it sends up a flowering
stem. But from its earliest seed-
ling-days it sends down a deep
tap-root, and any “diggers” will
need wonderful . perseverance
and stamina if they are to get it
all out.
The odds are that the cut end
of the stem will remain in the
soil, where it will produce one
or more new shoots, so that the
net effect will probably be to
increase the number of
rosettes.
Rather than trying to dig out
the whole plant, it is better to
dig out the rosette and fill the
hole with a shovelful of salt,
which should then be covered to
prevent stock licking it.
Alternatively, a weedicidal
compound of boron, available
from several Melbourne firms,
has been used successfully to
destroy isolated plants in the
Victorian Mallee. Although
more expensive than salt, the
boron is more convenient to use,
particularly on small patches of
weed, as it need only be sprinkled
on the soil at a rate of about lib.
to 10 sq. ft.
Grass-seeds
“Ngallo”: One good argu-
ment for early lambs is that they
are generally all sold or shorn
before grass-seeds become
troublesome. Barley-grass is the
biggest offender.
Seeds usually do their greatest
damage by lodging in the eyes
and back of the mouth; also in
the jaws, where they cause a dis-
charging abscess. Sometimes the
seeds penetrate the pelt, so that
sheep rub on fences and stones
as though they were lousy.
This season, here in Victoria,
there seems to have been more
trouble than usual from grass-
seeds penetrating -the heels and
causing a moist ulceration
between the toes, similar to the
symptoms of footrot.
The best answer is to top
pastures with a mower in the
spring to stop them seeding.
Seeds in the mouth or eyes can
be removed with wooden
tweezers. Footbathing in weak
formalin tends to soften seeds
in the feet and on the shanks,
reducing damage.
A good rain often beats seeds
to the ground, where they don’t
cause much trouble. In the
Mallee, cover-crops of oats on
fallows often provide good, seed-
free feed when the trouble is
at its worst in the paddocks.
Ragwort
“o’Johnno’ ? : Tasmanian
farmers who were happily point-
ing to the success of myxomatosis
in exterminating rabbits now
claim that the decrease in the
bunny family is responsible for
the recent alarming spread of
ragwort. Classed as a noxious-
weed, ragwort is giving a lot
of trouble in northern and north-
western Tasmania. Formerly, so
farmers say, it was kept under
control# by the rabbits, which
fed upon the weed. The Depart-
ment of Agriculture blames the
abnormally wet season for the
rapid spread of the weed, but a
good many farmers disagree.
Crosscuts
“Billjim”: Destruction of
insects by attracting them (from
a long distance) to baits by
aromatic substances has been
very successful in the United
States. One chemical bait used
to destroy the Mediterranean
fruit-fly from as far away as a
mile was corn-protein hydrolzate,
a by-product of commercial
starch from corn, used in con-
junction with dieldrin. Another
was a yeast-protein substance, a
by-product of beer.
* * *
“Big Billy”: Roto-baling of
excess pasture has proved very
successful in the south-east of
S.A., where on one property
alone 17,000 bales of phalaris-
clover were cut and left lying
in the paddocks for self-feeding
during the autumn and winter.
After nine months, during which
35in. of rain fell, the only
damage was a little weathering
on the outside of the bale, and
rotting where the bales rested on
the ground.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Self-help for the Aged
In all this concern for the old and the
poor, what about a thought for the old
who are neither poor nor rich?
In Sydney —and elsewhere no doubt —
there are many retired men and women
with anything up to £lOOO stacked away.
That’s enough to make an awful hole
in their pension, but it’s not enough to
buy them a house, and at today’s
prices they haven’t a hope of meeting
instalments on their own home.
The result is that most of them are
whittling away their capital living in
cheap pubs and boarding-houses until they
qualify for a full age-pension and thus
become a complete charge on the State.
What else can they do?
If sufficient of these people could get
together, however —in groups of, say, 40
—-they would have something like
£40,000 between them. That should be
more than enough to buy one of those
large old homes, of which there are plenty
around Sydney, and equip it as a com-
munity hostel.
I’m not thinking of a lot of old people
sitting around in the sun doing nothing
while a staff waits on them. The idea,
rather, would be an organisation where,
as well as contributing a pound or so
towards their keep and running-expenses,
the old folk would hop in and look after
themselves.
It’s not hard to imagine such a com-
munity providing its own manager,
accountant, carpenters, gardeners,
barbers, cleaners, plumbers, laundrymen
and so forth, each of them making a few
bob at their callings to supplement their
pensions.
Their thousand-quid stake in the
organisation would, of course, have to be
exempted from affecting their pensions.
It would also be returnable to them if
they decided to quit the organisation—
(here would almost certainly be a waiting-
list of others ready to take their place.
Where retired men and women have
been given a second chance in industry
they have generally shown that they still
have plenty of sting left in them. If a
group of them could pool their talents
and resources along the lines suggested
in the foregoing I’m sure they could
achieve wonders. —E. V. A. (N.S.W.).
Drink and Accidents
I don’t agree that “clever propaganda
by the temperance people” has “given
rise to the belief that most road-accidents
are due to alcohol” (“Magnoon,” B.
20/2/’57).
In fact, I don’t recall ever having
read of a claim by temperance
advocates that 50 per cent, or more of
road-accidents are so caused. I have
read, on the other hand, statements by
Victoria’s Chief Commissioner of Police
that drink is responsible, either directly
or indirectly, for a substantial propor-
tion of such accidents on Victorian roads.
It was largely on this advice that the
Victorian Government outlawed the
farce of selling liquor on Sundays to
“bona-fide” travellers, in an attempt to
make our roads safer on that day.
Medical authorities have emphasised,
time and again, the serious effects that
even a small amount of alcohol can have
on a driver’s reactions and skill. As to
statistics not supporting the view that
liquor plays a major part in causing
road accidents, statistics of accident-
causes are compiled on the basis of the
immediate Cause. It is at least highly
probable that a considerable percentage
of accidents attributed in statistical
records to “excessive speed” and “careless
and inattentive driving” are the result
of the overconfidence and recklessness
which alcohol engenders.
In the absence of compulsory and
satisfactory blood-tests, it is difficult for
police to sheet home a charge of “driving
under the influence.” Unless the weight
of evidence is so overwhelming that even,
the most sympathetic magistrate cannot
ignore it, a person charged with this
offence generally escapes conviction. —
Doynest (Vic.).
The Victorian Police Department
periodically conducts what it terms
“blitzes,” allegedly to reduce road-
accidents.
These drives usually follow a particu-
larly bad weekend of fatalities and
accidents, and after each “blitz” the dailies
publish imposing lists of police bookings
for road-breaches. These breaches, some-
times 1500 or so, consist mainly of park-
ing offences, defective tail-lights, etc., with
the major causes of road-accidents —
speeding, drunken driving and sheer
lunacy—very much in the minority.
This is merely toying with a problem
which originates mainly in the growing
addiction to alcohol and, to some extent,
in the appalling deterioration of Aus-
tralian roads.
Statistics show that most accidents
occur on Friday night and Saturday. This
is not due entirely to increased traffic
at the weekend, but also to the fact that
drivers and pedestrians take on a cargo
of liquor during this leisure-period.
Over the last four weeks a count of
drunk and near-drunk persons getting
into cars and driving away from Vic-
torian hotels at closing-time on Saturday
yielded the following figures:
Middle-class suburbs (one hotel only):
first week, 19 persons ; second week, 14
persons.
Industrial suburbs: first week, 19
persons; second week, 26 persons.
One Saturday night in Redfern
(N.S.W.) I counted 23 persons driving
away very much under the weather ; for
Brighton-le-Sands the score was 17.
If, instead of “blitzing” motorists for
trifling offences, the police directed their
attention to the pubs at closing-time on
Saturday they would bag a large propor-
tion of those who contribute mainly to
the accident-rate. — Kayella (Vic.).
Parliamentary Broadcasts
Parliamentary broadcasts, particularly
from the Senate, are mostly dull and un-
interesting, but the fact that they cost
about £45,000 a year, as lately announced
“Plurry bohemian !”
by the P.M.G;, is not an argument against
them.
The real point is how much would it
cost the A.B.C. for substitute programmes
if the Parliamentary broadcasts were
suspended? There would be very little,
if any, saving. The main cost to the
Commission of the Parliamentary broad-
casts is the rental of telephone-channels,
and as this money goes into the coffers of
the P.M.G.’s department it is really a
matter of taking from Peter to pay Paul,
To anyone who takes a real interest in
what happens at Canberra when Parlia-
ment is sitting, the broadcasts are almost
a necessity. Newspapers today print only
skimpy reports of Parliamentary proceed-
ings and it is imperative that electors
“No, they' re. not mine. I've got FAINTED toenails."
should have some check on what their
representatives are doing or saying.—
Dix (N.S.W.).
Fluoride
The proposal to add minute quantities
of fluorine to our drinking-water to
prevent tooth-decay seems to have been
dropped except in Yass (N.S.W.).
There was something of an outcry
when the proposals were first made,
mainly on the grounds that the possible
effects had not been accurately assessed.
Actually, however, continuous observa-
tions have been made in the United States
for about 40 years by the Public Health
Service, and a long series of tests and
experiments culminated in the statement
that the American Medical Association
“urges the fluoridation of fluoride-
deficient water as rapidly as plans can
be approved.” This view is also endorsed
by the Medical Research Council in Aus-
tralia, and by the British and Australian
Dental Associations.
As a safe and effective method of
controlling tooth-decay, one part of
fluoride to a million parts of water is
sufficient, and the safety-margin is of
the order of 50-100 times. In some towns
in America where the natural fluoride-
content of the water-supplies is up to 13
times the suggested amount, people have
suffered no effects other than slight
brown stains on the teeth.
In 1945 the town of Newburgh (N.Y.)
raised the level of flouride to one part
per million, and 10 years later the teeth
of Newburgh children in the 6-9 age-
group were compared with those of an
identical group in Kingston, a near-by
town without fluoridation. Fifty-eight
per cent, of Newburgh children had less
decay than the Kingston children, while
six times as many still retained their baby
molars completely free from decay.
Doctors regularly examined the children
from both centres during the test-period,
but were unable to find any medical
differences between the groups.
These days about 30-million people in
the US. are taking fluoride, and its
value seems established beyond reason-
able doubt. It is easy to introduce in
the small quantities involved, yet Aus-
tralia seems content to. ignore it. —
Kemberry (A.C.T.).
Working Wives
In 1954 the “female work-force” for
Australia numbered 737,488, of whom
232,390 were married, 35,435 widowed
and 1l 8,264 divorced. In some factories
married women comprised 70 per cent,
of the entire staff. More recent figures
would probably indicate a slight increase
in this trend.
If opinion-polls can be believed, the
reason why wives work are understand-
able enough: To help buy furniture, a
car or refrigerator ; to fill in the time
while children are at school; to develop
social contacts or, more realistically, to
make ends meet.
While every reason might be good in
itself, the repercussions are clear enough.
With the wife away most of the day the
children suffer and home-life begins to
weaken.
Moreover, such women are not usually
good unionists, if unionists at all, and
not being too concerned with working-
conditions are apt to accept a lower
wage than a man would for comparable
work. In self-defence, other workers
often insist on equal pay for men and
women for comparable duties,
The remedy—and one is surely needed
—should be sought in marriage-loans at
low interest for newly-married couples,
bigger “family-income” for married
men, and adequate pensions for mothers
who for any reason are not supported by
their husbands. —Xavier (Vic.),
4 ‘Super-intensive’ *
Protests about the mistreatment of
sheep and cattle are, unfortunately,
common enough—badly managed trans-
port, animals left for days in neglected
stockyards without sufficient feed or
water, and so forth.
Now there’s another bloke the
“super-intensive poultryfarmer.” He’s
safely within his legal rights, I suppose,
but . . .
What was known as intensive farming
a few years ago was quite a humane
practice. Birds were given a limited
space, clean areas, automatic feeding and
watering, and they were contented
enough.
The “super-intensive” man, however,
keeps his birds in cages made of netting,
each bird in a small compartment, in
some cases only Ift. wide, high and deep.
The floor slopes backwards and is
mesh-wire like the rest of the cage. The
birds’ droppings go through the wire, and
the egg, when laid, rolls to the rear to
be easily collected from a receiving-
trough.
The birds are never released, and if
taken out are incapable of walking, as
they have lost the use of their legs.
The sooner this system is stopped the
better.— Australorp (N.S.W.).
Road Safety
“Insurance” (B. 27/2/’57) says that
hotels in Victoria can no longer sell
liquor outside regular trading-hours to
one who has travelled 20 miles. That
prohibition applies only to Sunday trad-
ing. On all other days of the week it’s
an open go for the so called bona-fide
traveller, and that is why many hotels put
on barbecues, floor-shows and so forth,
to encourage drinkers after hours, par-
ticularly. on Saturday nights.
In some of the tourist-resorts around
the bay and in the hills this business has
become a regular Saturday-night feature,
and there seems to be a certain elasticity
as to exactly how far 20 miles is. The
Victorian Government is to consider
extending the 20-mile limit, according to
the statement of one member of the
Cabinet, but when is another matter.
In the meantime, well-lubricated
patrons of these Saturday-night functions
are turned loose at the tick of midnight
to make their way home by car along the
roads.
It was an amendment to the Licensing
Act, which came into operation in
November, 1955, which provided that “no
person shall be a bona-fide traveller on
any Sunday, under any circumstances.”
/Apparently the official view is that
persons run no risks on week-nights.—
Harry the Horse (Vic.).


the Bolsheviks; an Ambassador, as
were all the Allied Ambassadors in
Russia, strictly enjoined to have
nothing whatever to do with Lenin or
Trotsky or their Bolshevik Govern-
ment just to sit and report. There
was General Judson, the American
military representative, who intrigued
to persuade Trotsky not to make peace
with the Germans unless the Germans
promised not to shift any men from
the eastern to the western front, as
though war were a game of ludo.
There were Bullard, a Leftist and
an expert on Russian affairs, who was
there to report to Colonel House;
Sisson, a prickly magazine-editor who
considered himself President Wilson’s
representative; and John Reed, a free-
lance, all-the-way Communist, who
wrote “Ten Days that Shook the
World,” still the best eye-witness
account of the revolution, says Mr.
Kennan.
Then there was the multimillionaire
William Boyce Thompson, who in the
time of the Provisional Government
distributed a million dollars among the
Russian Social Revolutionaries and
then left for England and the States
to campaign vigorously for U.S. recog-
nition of the Bolshevik Government.
He had gone to Russia as Red Cros
representative; his assistant in the Ret
Cross, Raymond Robins, also a rid
man, an ex-goldminer, a social
reformer, an orator both plain and
fancy whose style owed much to hi
study of the Bible, stayed on to main
up for his few duties as Red Crosr
colonel by becoming the confidant of
Trotsky and of Lenin; an intriguer for
the recognition of their Government
a worshipper at the shrine of Lenin
considered by the Bolsheviks to be their
only friend among the nations.
Not least of the comic situations was
Trotsky’s effort, in accordance with
General Judson’s advice, to make the
victorious Germans at Brest-Litovsk
undertake not to move their troops to
the Western front. This was reinforced
at a later stage of the peace conference
by his slapstick abandonment of the
negotiations, a. refusal either to go on
fighting or to sign any peace-treaty,
which at first amazed the Germans, but
later, when the Germans resumed their
march, cost the Bolshevik Government
a much more severe peace-treaty and
also forced them to recognise the
Ukraine Government, which they had
been in process of destroying.
Indeed, within the time between the
Gennan-Russian armistice and the
ratification of the Brest-Litovsk treaty,
both Bolsheviks and Allied representa-
tives in Russia buzzed about to as
little purpose as bees in a bottle: their
movements had terrific implications
for each other but no effect upon the
outside world. Ambassador Francis
had to rely for most of his facts upon
Colonel Robins, who used the Embassy
to further Bolshevik policy. Lenin
waited until the last moment before
ratifying the peace-treaty for a reply
from the American Government to his
question, as to what America would
guarantee Russia if Russia fought
on—his message had been delayed and
did not reach America until after t
ratification of the treaty.
Sisson took a bundle of secret doc
ments proving that the Bolsheviks hac
been in the pay of the Germans
America, published them in defian
of the American Government, anc
later had most of them condemned
forgeries—but not before an America
scholar had testified to the
authenticity because he had thought
his duty to his country. Young Joh
Reed, who had made an anti-America
speech at the third Congress of So vie
whi,ch followed the brutal disbandin
of the elected Constituent Assembl
was appointed (an American citizen
by the Bolsheviks Consul of the Russia
Republic in New York—and th
appointment was not cancelled unti
documents were put before Lem
showing that Reed was in favor of
“restricted capitalist State within th
bounds of the Soviet State.”
An American Red'Cross colonel
Rumania fell in love with Queen Mari
somewhat to her amusement, and con
sidered getting her and her court ou
if necessary, from Jassy through th
Don country, for which purpose h
requested that ambulances brought b
the Russian Kalpashnikov, from New
York to Russia, should be sent t
Rostov on the Don. A series o
instructions and countermandin
instructions got into the hands of th
Bolsheviks, who threw Kalpashniko
into prison, and then denounced ai
American plot to aid their enemies, th
Don Cossacks —the sincerity of whid
denunciation might be judged from th
surprise of a Bolshevik official who
later on found Kalpashnikov still in
prison; the Bolsheviki, he said, hac
made the arrest “for the definite purpose
of creating a scandal with the
American Embassy, and the principa
objective was not [Kalpashnikov] bu
Ambassador Francis.”
The Rumanians created another
incident by arresting Russian looters
and rapers; for which reason the
Bolsheviks broke diplomatic protocol
and imprisoned the Rumanian Minister
to Petrograd, Count Diamandi, as
hostage f This was on January 13,
wherefore on January 15 all foreign
Ambassadors, Ministers and charges
d’affaires visited Lenin at the former
girls' school, the Skolny, where the
Bolsheviks had their headquarters
(filthy with food-dishes, littered with
guns and revolvers); the first call any
diplomat had made upon Lenin, and
the first time Lenin had met a
diplomat. He leered and sneered. He
said afterwards that he had loathed the
meeting; it was “to fall from the midst
of living people into the company of
corpses”.... .
But he freed Diamandi. The story
did not end here. Diamandi was later
told to leave Russia, and left in the
company of a Soviet commissar, who
carried secret instructions from Trotsky
to the Red commissar at Torneo to
“do away with” Diamandi at the
Finnish border. But Torneo had fallen
to the Finnish Whites, who executed
Diamandi’s commissar and left
Diamandi to cross into Sweden owing
yet another life to whatever god
presides- over the doings of diplomats.
But all this was faraway music to
President Wilson and his Foreign
Minister, Robert Lansing, who had
no real desire to listen. Lansing had
very early given Russia away as a
fighting force: he thought of Lenin
and Trotsky as no more than flotsam
on the waves of chaos that would rol
over Russia for years to come; and
President Wilson’s main concern was,
while not recognising the Bolshevik
Government, to avoid “forcing Russia
into the arms of Germany”—so far as
to make Russia a German ally.
It was for this reason that, on the
advice of Colonel House, President
Wilson crystallised his decision to
enumerate America’s war-aims, as an
offset to Germany’s hope of making
separate peace-treaties; and it was the
Russian situation, says Mr. Kennan,
that thus precipitated the Fourteen
Points speech, of which Point VI is
specially directed to Russia.
Another phase of the Russian break-
down which worried President Wilson
was the. desire of Japan to invade
Siberia: this was urged upon Lansing
and Wilson not only by the Japanese
but by the French and British to such
purpose that Wilson almost sent a
dispatch saying that America wouldn’t
mind. Then Colonel House took a
hand. A polite message was sent to
Japan without the all-important
sentence about America not minding,
and the Japanese, realising what the
American Pacific Fleet might do at
the height of a Japanese investment of
Asia, backed down.
The final contribution of the Presi-
dent to this story was a message of
goodwill to the people of Russia on
the eve of ratification of Brest-Litovsk.
This was answered by the Soviet
Congress, which had been hoping for
a reply to the request for information
on possible American aid which the
President had not received, in the spirit
of high comedy for which the whole
action of the book is remarkable.
Ignoring the American Government, as
President Wilson ignored the Bolshevik
Government, the Congress addressed
“the toiling and exploited classes of the
United States of North America,”
hoping that “the time is not far distant
when the toiling masses of all bourgeois
countries will throw off the yoke of
capitalism”
These perhaps too-lighthearted
excerpts cannot give any picture of
the complexity of the book or the
dexterity of Mr. Kennan’s narrative;
complete with pictures and maps, a
bibliography and an index, it awaits
the studious, if not the casual, reader,
a rare lesson in international politics
without tears.
Reviewed Briefly
A new Pelican of special interest to
Australia is Landscape Into Art, by
Sir Kenneth Clark, who was adviser
to the Felton Bequest and was invited
by that body to Melbourne to make
important recommendations with
regard to the National Gallery collec-
tion. Sir Kenneth is concerned with
man’s relation to Nature as reflected
in the history of landscape painting.
He deals with the acceptance of
descriptive symbols, the curiosity about
facts, the creation by the artist of
fantasy to relieve his fears and a belief
in a Golden Age of order. He holds
that a passionate interest in Nature, as
exemplified in landscape, did not
develop till the nineteenth century with
the advent of Constable, Corot, Turner,
Van Gogh, Cezanne and others, and
that it has petered out in the present
era, the more vital artists having
turned from Nature to abstraction.
* * * *
Dewey Death: Charity Blackstock
(Heinemann). Chapter - heads and
other references to the Dewey library-
classification system merely ornament
the setting, an English central-library
dedicated to procuring books for
scholars from libraries all over the
world; neither is the murder-mystery
nor the solution of the first quality.
But the studies of a vicious old woman-
clerk, of an ex-partisan microfilm-
operator tearing hearts to pieces, and of
the owners of the hearts, are really
terrific writing. The scene where the
handsome, voluptuous woman who is
the finance-officer slaps his face and
says she is going back to her husband
is a thing of awful truth, and deserving
of a better kind of book.
* * * *
American Geisha: Marion Taylor
(Bles). Life in post-war Japan as the
wife of a U.S. colonel. Trying to buy
a Hokusai print from a woman art-
dealer who wouldn’t sell it; watching
the dancing-girls (“Their flower-
splashed kimonos twinkled with gold
and silver obis, their black hair glittered
with gold and silver Combs, while in
their hands they fluttered huge mush-
room-straw hats tipped with pink and
red pompons”); studying the love-
affairs of U.S. soldiers who wanted to
marry Japanese girls; temples,
umbrella-shops and cherry-blossom. A
well-written and up-to-date . travel-
book.
* * * *
The Pursuit of Freedom: Pierre
Mendes - France (Longmans). M.
Mendes-France, Premier from June,
1954, to February, 1955, served as a
lieutenant in the French Air Force in
Syria in 1939, was back in France in
time to try to oppose the surrender,
was imprisoned by the Vichy Govern-
ment and (while his wife was annoyed
by secret-police in Morocco) escaped
to London. Limited to those years,
his book reads like the first volume of
a fuller autobiography to be written
later. It is essentially an exposure of
the Vichy Government and of condi-
tions in their prisons; clear, concise
and readable.
* * * *
The Red Danube: Bruce Marshall
(Penguin Books). A story of British
government in post-war Vienna written
by a man wfr was there and can give
us a graphic uescription of what went
on from inside—all the red-tape and
muddle and confusion which follow
wars where nobody has any ill inten-
tions but all have different view-
points. Major Nicobar, of the British
Army, is billeted with his staff in a
convent in Vienna, and there are some
interesting discussions between him and
the Mother Superior, a Russian officer
and an Austrian soldier who has been
a p.-0.-w. in Russia. They learn a
little of each other’s viewpoints.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 425
Across
I—Writer to nullify the father of 11-
across which is almost a ring.
, L lo >
o—Back up to the tees, but it’s
hardly a tee-shot. (4)
10—The most peevish tee and so on
hurries to tee. (9)
I—McAr crime. (5)
>2—lmitated a carrier-pigeon call to
„ a faculty. (5)
‘3—Desert in favor of Japanese
liquor. (7)
Girl mentioned in Spanish articles
k
's—Slips where the slips field slip-
shots. (7)
4)— The thinnest meadow bird’s
home. (7)
Game explorer of Asia. (4)
°~-A whole continent is after the
killer of Cleopatra, mistress of
, Pericles. (7)
‘o—Suit with spots —considers to be
. appropriate. (4, 3)
'''-Disdainfully reject and goad the
, North. (5)
They may refresh a figure in the
v air with tender vowels. (4, 2,3)
This makes Ruth’s son love
30 £ unk :, W
~-renmless country town m Vic-
toria is a rich country town in
N.S.W. (6, 4)
Down
1 — 6-across and 29-across treated
as a cot-case. (3, 2,3)
2 Crazy underworld accommoda-
tion for the concise presentation
of the facts. (8)
3 North America drones for
a biblical prophet and a poet
laureate named Tate. (6)
4 You wait to overturn. (5)
5 Paintings, poetry (by Kipling),
bits of drama—all the works of
artists. (9)
7 Throw from the saddle when a
tune’s varied. (6)
8— What the wattlebark swinger did
to the hides; Daisy would look
sweet on it. (6)
9 A good round corrodes birds.
(8)
16— She barely entertains France and
changes. (3-6)
17 — Sons of the sea? There are four
per annum. (7)
18— Nice toft occupied by that which
may go along with the honey-
mooners. (8)
19 — Tread a measure before the
autumn. (8)
22 — Donkey and lin company with a
victim of Lago’s plottings. (6)
23 — Well-groomed timber. (6)
24 Celebrity city where it’s easy to
divorce West and North. (6)
26 —New Guinea river pike’s minced.
(5)
Solution to Crossword No. 424


xs
nr';
-V'.
!
S’
\
-
m
a
■
g-;: :
. V
... ' .
&
I
H
?
m
lil
1
M
■;
■ '■
!
Hi
■
■
M 8
MB
m
i
i
•V'V
i
mm
mm
in
„>• !
It was such a perfect day t 00...
It was nearly the end, of a perfect day. It finished a tragically imperfect day.
It is a too-familiar story, generally a news page item in the
Monday morning papers. It was a lovely sunny day and the
family were on the way home from a drive. Everything was
wonderful. Then it happened ... a nightmare of split
sequences, sharp and cruel. Around the bend . . . then that
crazy narrow bridge . . . Dad swung the steering wheel . . .
the car kicked then tore through the bridge side with a sick-
ening screech.
The result? Dad seriously injured, Mum a badly cut face.
Little Ronnie? Well the doctors now think he’ll walk again.
You can’t drag this narrow bridge into court and sue it for
damages. But it is guilty.
Year after year, out-of-step relics like this narrow bridge
cause accident after accident. Some are .fatal. They injure,
too, not only people but the grpwing transport of the country
by slowing it down. This adds to freight and handling costs
which pushes up the prices you pay. Narrow bridges should
be removed. They have no place in 1957 Australia.
Road transport plays such an important part in our lives
that Australian roads should be made as safe as possible.
What Australia needs is a National Roads Authority, a single
body, backed by the necessary funds and powers, to provide
the foresight and planning essential to road making. An
Australian National Roads Authority could be the first step
in bringing our roads into line with today’s requirements,
while keeping an eye on the future. What do you think?
nviiidun
o*
v|p
Ki&
JP
AND CAT ARE
REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OF
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO., U.S.A.
When you think of
better roads, think
of the big yellow machines
that help build them.
CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
DIESEL ENGINES - TRACTORS » MOTOR GRADERS - EQUIPMENT Rlfl
