

SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
The Core of the Commonwealth page 4
Wednesday, July 3, 1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
“SHAW’S CORNER,”
THE PLAYWRIGHT’S LAST HOUSE
IN 1951 the home of George Bernard Shaw at
Ayot St. Lawrence, in Hertfordshire, was
o'- ned to the public.by the-National Trust. It
i there that the great dramatist lived from
L 06 until his death, in 19a0. Although easily
accessible, few villages in the Home Counties are
s remote as Ayot St. Lawrence, three miles from
Welwyn and 27 miles from London. Bounded by
busy roads to the east and west, this sleepy hamlet,
consisting of several 17th-century half-timbered
cottages, a Tudor manor house and an ancient
church, remains almost as unspoilt as when Shaw
first settled there. Shaw’s choice of residence was
prompted, so the story goes, by his discovery there
of a tombstone bearing the inscription “her time
was short,’’ and as the lady concerned died at the
age of 70, he decided that this was the place for
him. He died at the age of 94.
When Shaw, at the age of 50, bought the New
Rectory at Ayot St. Lawrence, renaming it “Shaw’s
Corner,” he was already regarded as a leading
playwright —his "Caesar and Cleopatra,’ “John
Bull’s Other Island,” “Arms and the Man” and
“Candida” had previously appeared, and “The
Doctor’s Dilemma” was being performed.
“Pygmalion,” “Back to Methuselah,” “Man and
Superman,” “Heartbreak House” and “Saint Joan”
were still to be written at Ayot St. Lawrence,
Visitors can see the desk in his study exact!’)
as he left it, his books, ornaments and photo-
graphs of his friends—Gene Tunney the boxer,
Sean O’Casey the dramatist, James Barrie, W. B.
Yeats and many others. In the Drawing Room are
bronzes by Prince Paul Troubetskoy and Rodin;
a statuette of Joan of Arc and the “Oscar
awarded for “Pygmalion” stands on the chimney-
piece.
No. 356: the Homeland Series bu the House of Seppelt.


WRITE FOR
PROFIT!
If YOU have the urge to write, you ran
learn to write Successful Stories, Articles,
Written Sketches, Kadio Talks, Pars, Verse,
etc. There is a large, and constant demand
for well-written work.
STOTT’S Training will provide you with the
assistance and knowledge of highly-qualified and
experienced Instructors.
Mrs. J. Penna gained £7O for Short Stories
sold while still engaged on her Course.
Mrs. L King was paid £2l for her sth story.
What these students have done. YOU can
do. If you would like information about
our Courses in Story Writing. Freelance
Journalism, etc., post the Coupon today
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne: 149 Castlereagh St.
Sydney ; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane: 21 Grenfeii
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
—CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without anv obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 1357)
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you-fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee onrly if successful.
The Red Page
P. & O. COMMODORE
“Seldom,” says Lord Simon in his
introduction to A Sea Affair, by
Captain D. G. O. Baillie (Hutchin-
son), “has any attempt been made to
portray life under the Red Ensign,
except as seen in the distorting mirror
of fiction”; but this autobiography,
which takes Captain Baillie from a
Worcester cadetship through to his
retirement as commodore of the
P. & O. fleet, and is a picture of life
on merchant-ships and liners, certainly
makes up for the omission.
He was almost out of his apprentice-
ship at the beginning of World War I;
his first ship had been the Pera, in
which he early made acquaintance with
Australia and a Melbourne confidence-
man; for a while during the war he
served in the Avoca, an armed
merchant-cruiser, and finished it on
the third-class cruiser Isis in the North
Atlantic. After the war he set foot on
the ladder again as third-mate on
P. & O. ships on Australian and
Bombay runs (one was the old
Narkunda); and having met a pleasing
passenger and decided to marry her,
and her father holding out against
marriage until he should become first-
mate, he compromised by taking a
P. & O. shore job, relieving a fellow-
officer in Ceylon, so that he could be
ashore with his wife for a while; after
the Second World War he did another
spell ashore, at Aden.
Returning from a second spell
ashore in Ceylon, he got his first berth
as chief-officer on the Ranchi, whose
captain broke him in by turning the
life-belts back-to-front and then send-
ing for him and demanding why he
hadn’t noticed; and in 1937 he was
chief-officer of the Carthage. His
reminiscences of passengers become
very good here; how he walked-out of
the dining-room when a couple at his
table persisted in complaining about
food and service, and wouldn’t come
back until they apologised; about a
little Japanese girl who was expected
to sit still for two hours when her
parents came to afternoon-tea; about
the habits of Vice-Royalty; and
especially about Rajah Brooke of
Sarawak coming aboard at Singapore:
I arranged to have the gangway
cleared for the time of his embarka-
tion, manned by a quartermaster in
his Number One uniform, and a
guard of Lascars, while I stood at
the top to receive him, the captain
being ashore. Rajah Brooke arrived
on the quay at an early hour, and
I was congratulating myself that all
was going well when, as he began
to climb the gangway, half a grape-
fruit sailed out of an open scuttle
to land exactly on his head . . .
The Carthage, on the opening of
War 11, had her inside pulled out in
Calcutta, a grisly process in which 400
coolies transformed her into an armed
merchant-cruiser —so poorly armed,
says Captain Baillie, that although she
hunted conscientiously for German
raiders, “by the mercy of heaven we
were always unsuccessful in our
search.” Later the captain was in the
Stratheden, carrying troops to Algiers;
then ashore, assistant to the officer-in-
charge at Liverpool; and then he got
his first command, Liberty - ship
Samsoaring.
The story of his Atlantic crossii
in this mass-produced, welded, lii
ship, loaded down with machinery ai
on one trip, with two tugs lashed to I
deck, is the peak of the book, culmin
ing with an account of his last crossi
when in a blinding storm off the e
coast of England she bumped ag;
and again on the bottom, so that s
buckled like a concertina, “a compli
double-wave in the steel plates rij
across the ship,” which “appeared
run clean round the hull”; while it v
later discovered that “the whole aft
part of the ship had been fore
upwards by as much as two-and-a-h;
inches.”
Yet not one inch of the welding
had given, nor one drop of water
entered the ship; she steered per-
fectly and the engines were running
as sweetly as ever they had done.
Whereas;—
A riveted ship would have sheared
every rivet when she smashed on the
bottom, and would have opened up
like a basket.
So much for the quality of Libert;
ships . . . After the war Captai
Baillie got his first peace-tin
command, the Perim; then toe
command of the Chitral, feriyir
servicemen back and forth across tl
world; ferried more troops to a-thii
war in Korea as captain of the Empii
Fowey, formerly the German shi
Potsdam, and ended his career s
captain of the Himalaya, with the be
after-dinner speaker in the world, R. C
Menzies, travelling from Fremantle t
Colombo, to toast the 60th birthda
which meant the captain’s retiremei
from the P. & O.;—
He made a comparison between
the status of a Prime Minister and
the captain of a ship. The Prime
Minister, he declared, came off by
far the worst; there were so many
things that a captain could do and
a Prime Minister could not.
There is a calm, unvarnished accouo
of every stage of the career of a sea
captain (with no little complacena
about P. & O. traditions); the English
man’s usual dumb effort to say some
thing nice about,old comrades; and i
real appreciation of Lascar crews—
he’d rather have Lascars than white
crews; and his picture of them—theit
religious customs, their calm exchange
of a complete crew in a few hours al
the conclusion of a term of service,
their qualities as personal servants, and
especially of a day he spent being
taken to meet the relatives and
friends of his Lascar servant —is the
most human thing in a very human
and readable book.
{"Red Page ” continued on page 58)
WINTER
He would love to catch the winter’s
air,
The liquid wind like sculptor’s care
That wore irrelevance from the stone
And founded beauty upon the bone.
He would like to stretch his arms so
wide
That all of winter could be inside
To fuse his warmth to clearer cold,
Make crystal light of what he held.
Winter’s width he had plainly seen
Held all the ground where he had been;
His summer’s height could even tell
Of basic winter there as well.
The downy kitten upon the sill
Told his finger through purring will
That transient warmth’s bitter price
He could recoup by loving ice.
Victoria.
Noel Macainsh.


M!M
m
2331
80951. Post Orders to Box 2712, G.P.O.
| Anywhere in Australia
Now WE EXPERTLY FIT
YOUR CHILD’S SHOES - RY MAIL
Send us a tracing of your child’s footprint . . . size and style of shoe required,
and we, with the help of a complete range of “Robin’ and “Gro-Shu”
footwear in fractional fittings and skilled fitters will do the rest.
✓
ifCftVJTl
WJMI. Robin “Pilot”. Moccasin
fie in Black and Brown, new mic*
rocell sole. 2'si 65/6, 6'll 72/6.
WM2. Robin ‘Grammar’. Hard
wearing maids’ shoe in Black and
Brown. Sizes to 10, 69/6.
WM3. Robin ‘Wade’. Boys’ Ox-
ford in Black only. Wearite soles.
Sizes 121 to 3 57/6, H to 7 64/6
m
m
Us®
■s
WM4. Gro-Shu “Tippy”. These
shoes are a gusset casual in col-
ours of Tan or Caramello. Sizes
10 to 12$, 38/6; 13 to 3, 43/6.
WMS, Gro-Shu “Trooper”. An
apron front derby in Black and
Tan. Sizes 7 to 81, 34/'; 9 to
12a, 38/6; 13. to 3, 43/6.
WM6. Robin ‘Huskee’. Our best
seller in Black and Brown, wear'
ite soles. Sizes 10 to 12i, 48/6:
13 to 3, 52/6; 4$ to 7, 59/6.


The Bulletin
Wednesday , July 3, 1957
Vol. 78—No. 4038
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queens: and: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
COMMONWEALTH CORE
THE Prime Ministers’ Conference
has met in London with lots of new
blood, but with the old problems and
in the habitual atmosphere of unreality.
It is Mr. Macmillan’s first appear-
ance in place of Sir Anthony Eden,
now almost forgotten in the political
world, and Mr. St. Laurent, of Canada,
has given way to the younger Mr.
Diefenbaker. New Zealand’s Prime
Minister was absent, and so were
Mr. Strijdom, of South Africa, and
Mr. Bandaranaike. It isn’t clear whether
the last-named is making a parade of
his absence to please Moscow and
Soekarno and Mao, or whether he
was afraid to leave his little earthly
paradise which politically is rapidly
turning into a Hades. Its Tamil
members have become a serious head-
ache, and the Leftist leadership of
Ceylon is plunged in difficulties, racial
and linguistic.
Mr. Nehru, of course, was there,
glaring at the loyal Pakistanis, but as
chameleonlike as ever now for
Nasser, now not. The erstwhile
defender of Moscow over Hungary,
when he felt that it was popular, is now
prepared to admit that the Soviet thrust
into and torture of that little, wretched
country was an act of aggression and
a sad affair.
He conditioned himself for the
somewhat cold attitude of the United
Kingdom by a Polar journey, and
arrived in Westminster after having
defrosted himself by dancing round a
maypole in Stockholm. Maypole-
dancing is his speciality in politics as
well as in real life, and he is ready to
dance with anybody. He may be an
imperialist today, a Marxist tomorrow
>nd a Dulles Washingtonian on Thurs-
day. He assumes his protective coloring
from his surroundings, and he is some-
what subdued in his attitude because
all is not going well in India,
economically or politically.
He is beginning to feel the effects of
his disastrous twelve months of world-
interference and neglect of India’s own
affairs.
All his Ministers have taken cuts in
salary, and he himself has given up his
private zoo and moved into a smaller
house while the Communists rampage
in Kerala and he adjusts his mood to
the need for an urgent short-term loan
from the people he basely betrayed in
the hour when they most needed
Commonwealth support.
Neither he nor Dr. Nkrumah is
exactly a prop of Commonwealth unity.
The latter comes from Ghana with an
attitude towards the United Kingdom
of a member of the Howard Prison
Reform League exhibiting his prize
reformed-felon: he believes “the
Commonwealth... .can become a
pilot-scheme for developing the most
effective methods by which colonialism
can be ended without revolution or
violence, and under which the former
colonial territory still retains a close
and friendly association with the
former imperial Power”—that is, of
course, if the erstwhile wicked imperial
Power will continue to finance and
defend the new Dominion while allow-
ing its politicians to indulge to the full
in Nehruism.
No doubt the representatives of
the strange conglomeration of new
“freed” sovereign States arrived in
suppliant mood for some purpose or
another, but they were scarcely an
inspiring assembly in which to discuss
a new approach to defence, which was
very obviously the intention, since each
great Dominion Prime Minister had
brought his Defence Minister along—-
Mr. Menzies, Sir Philip Mcßride; Mr.
Diefenbaker the freshly appointed
Major-General G. R. Pearkes, V.C. It
was scarcely a conference in which
even the most openhearted Labor
politician in Britain would care to see
the secrets of H-bomb strategy or the
nature of defence co-operation, or even
its theories, discussed.
It could be taken, however, from
the first that the conference would be
a brilliant success. It always is. It
could also be taken that Mr. Mac-
millan, Mr. Menzies. Mr. Diefenbaker,
Dr, Nkrumah and Pandit Nehru were
each —according to where the tale is
told—the life and soul of the meeting,
displaying a dominating personality
and brilliant acumen. Each has his
own national compartment for his
publicity bureau to operate in. Also,
all, save for a few tiffs exposed to lend
to the story, was from
the first, on past precedents, guaran-
teed to be a feast of harmony.
On the whole, the Prime Ministers
Conference, as a conference, seems tc
have become a mere matter of form
in its broadest manifestations, though
no doubt behind the scenes the stable
British white sections the U.K.,
Canada, Australia and New Zealand—
are in a position to steadily cement
their unity. With the perfection of the
hydrogen-bomb and with the applica-
tion of its techniques to the production
of industrial power apparently in sight,
this is the important factor.
It has revolutionised world strategy.
It has given the British Common-
wealth back its independence and its
strength. It has produced the means
whereby, if United Kingdom industrial
solidity and scientific genius, which
leads the world, is linked to the eager
drive and huge untapped resources of
Australia and Canada, with a proper
redistribution of population and
capital, the British Commonwealth
can take its own course and tell the
rest —meaning the rabble-voters of the
U.N.—to go and chase themselves.
It seems a pity that the core of the
four solidly British components of the
Commonwealth cannot be welded
together in a closer unity, with a more
formal political association, stronger
mutual representation and a merging of
capital resources along lines which
have been apparent in defence already.
There are difficulties in the way
while Australia, for instance, has its
large political “Labor” party tied to
Moscow policies, but the cure for that
seems to be working already, and the
ties will certainly be made tighter and
more permanent under the deterrent
defence scheme which is already in
process of formation.
The time may not be far away when
the linkage might* be made more formal
through the creation of some sort of
council of Ministers of the United
Kingdom, Canada, Australia and New
Zealand to deal regularly with mutual
enterprises in trade and development,
protection and world policy. The Suez
affair and the Middle Eastern situa-
tion might have had a very different
complexion if there hatf been some
such body in existence to which
discussion of the problem would have
gone as matter of course before it was
handled in the international sphere.
The British Commonwealth’s
position has become weakened in the
last decade mainly because of the
independence of line among the
ingredient nations, and particularly
because the greater nations which form
its core have chosen to act independ-
ently instead of getting together and
using their joint weight for a joint
purpose. A solid British core existing
in 1945 and British Commonwealth,
instead of Molotov-Evatt, leadership
might even have made something
different of U.N.O.


HAPPY (Financial) LANDINGS!


PLAIN ENGLISH
Australian Success-story
A happy chapter of a great Australian
success-story was written last week by
Senator Paltridge when he announced the
agreement under which United States Air-
lines will be allowed to establish a
Sydney-Bangkok service, a service to the
U.S.A. via the Antarctic and South
America and a service from Sydney to
South Africa via Perth.
In return Qantas will be allowed to fly
to Europe via the U.S.A. and the Atlantic,
thus making Qantas the first airline with
a round-the-world route.
It is a culmination to an achievement
which began 37 years ago in Australia
with Australians: with no money behind
it except local subscriptions got together
in trains and clubs by the promoters them-
selves and started in a region which 60
years before had been unexplored in
detail by white man.
It is unusual in any country for the
father of an idea to live long enough to
see it become a world-wide fact. Yet
this has happened to Sir Hudson Fysh,
who learnt his flying in the Middle East
during World War I, surveyed the
Darwin-Sydney route for Ross and Keith
Smith on the first great cross-the-world
flight in 1919, flew the first airmail flight
in Queensland in 1922 and piloted the
second flight, Australia to England, and
the first experimental air-mail flight from
Brisbane to Darwin in May, 1931.
Twenty-six years later, only 62, he is
head of one of the greatest airlines in
the world, serving routes which will now
reach almost everywhere except to South
America direct, and to which no ocean is
a bar.
The new arrangement will, of course,
bring Ameiican airlines into competition
with Australian and British lines in some
phases of operation, but the standards set
by Australian lines, and fathered by
Qantas, are capable of meeting any com-
petition in the matter of comfort, safety
records, reliability and sheer enterprise,
not to mention travel and freight costs.
Qantas services, of course, already
reach out to San Francisco, but no farther.
The company’s passengers have hitherto
been forced to travel across the U.S.A.
by American airlines to link with
8.0.A.C. for the Atlantic crossing.
Now there will be two all-British
Commonwealth lines to the United
Kingdom, one via Canada and one via the
U.S.A. From a defence point of view the
innovation will be of importance ; it will
tend to keep up Jhe standards of Aus-
tralian flying through competition ; it will
mean full usage of a large fleet of the
most modern Boeing giants which will
come into service in 1959, giving the
Commonwealth a powerful carrying-
squadron of tactical military importance,
apart from their dollar-earning capacity
and everything that goes with the kind
of business that has been opened up.
In the present situation in the Middle
East and in Asia, it seems certain that
more and more air-traffic will go to
Europe via the Pacific from Australia and
adjacent countries, and Qantas standards
wilt ensure that Australia gets a big slice
of the business.
Cars by the Fleet
Probably the most notable failure of the
Victorian Government has been its
timidity in grappling with the extrava-
gance in the purchase, use and mainten-
ance of the fleets of departmental
motor-cars.
Former Labor Transport Minister
Stoneham has now been able to make
the allegation that the Government could
save £2 million a year ; and, according
to official reports disclosed against the
Government’s will, this figure is only
slightly exaggerated, if at all.
Bolte and Rylah came into power soon
after Cain, the Labor Premier, had
appointed a departmental committee from
the Premier’s Department and the
Treasury and Transport Board to cen-
tralise these fleets. Cain went out before
he could act, and Bolte and Rylah have
ignored the report, and others made by
independent experts since.
Cain had first become alarmed in 1953 ;
or, at any rate, that was when the hard-
headed politician first made public his
CHASE AND ESPERANCE—
See page 20
disquiet at the fact that State-owned
motor-cars were costing more than £1
million a year. There were then 632 State
cars, aside from 1900 other State vehicles,
running 25-million miles a year, costing
£200,000 a year for petrol and oil alone,
and 19 cars, each with a chauffeur, for
Ministers and party-leaders, were spending
about two-thirds of their time waiting
around.
In August, 1954, Cain's Transport
Minister Coleman announced that control
of the Government’s fleet of motor-cars
and trucks would be centralised* in the
Transport Regulation Board from Sep-
tember 1, and that a committee would
deal with all applications for new cars,
motor-hire contracts given by depart-
ments and applications for assistance
from officers buying their own cars for
use on official duties.
Cain’s haste towards an ordered control
of the departmental fleets was stimulated
not merely by the cost, but by the dis-
closure that in one year State cars had
travelled nearly two-million miles in daily
trips between officers’ homes and their
headquarters.
Cain released a report by a fact-finding
committee which showed that the iGov-
ernment motor-transport system failed in
the major requisites of economy, reli-
ability, capacity, flexibility and emergency
value ; and it involved excessive expendi-
ture on the purchase of vehicles, spare-
parts and associated stores.
The report estimated that £600,000 a
year could be saved by the establishment
of the central committee to control Gov-
ernment vehicles; but when Cain was
routed and Bolte became Premier, the
committee found all its efforts to set itself
up were thwarted.
It was estimated, in 1953, that the cost
of Government vehicles was increasing at
the rate of £400,000 a year, but- this was
probably an understatement because later
an independent engineering consultant
reported to the Government that
£1,650,000 could be saved yearly by con-
solidation and sane control.
The report was pigeonholed smartly,
but leaked out in May, 1956. Thereupon
Bolte announced half of the Ministerial
band of chauffeurs had been retrenched ;
but a week later only one was missing.
A large proportion of the State cars
are kept in orderly rows at Russell-street
police headquarters, where dozens can
be seen any day or night, despite the large
number in the streets filled with lounging
young men in civilian clothes—which
explains the complaints, too, of suburban
residents that they have not seen a
uniformed constable on beat-duty for
years.
Stoneham, now asking the Government
to form a car-pool for purchase and
maintenance, is obviously not talking the
“plain nonsense" of which Bolte accused
him in estimating it would save £2 million
a year. Sometime before May, 1956, an
expert estimated it would save £1,650,000
a year, and as far back as 1953 Cain was
stunned to find Government car costs
rising by £400,000 a year.
The Hatchets Are Out
N. S. Wales Labor, having restored Mr.
Joe Arthur to its rolls, along with a
gaggle of others who had been expelled
for Communist associations in the days
of the Light on the Hill, is now sitting
in an uneasy and precarious seat.
Last week one of its prominent women
speakers at the recent annual conference,
Miss Mary Nappa, a delegate from the
Clothing Trades Employees’ Union,
announced that she had “torn-up her
A.L.P. membership-ticket in disgust" at
its opposition to trade-union ballots,
which “gave the green-light to the Com-
munists to take over the unions,” and at
its readmission of ex-Communists with
its tongue in its cheek and following
the president’s assertion that the Com-
munist party was a cuckoo party.
Miss Nappa’s valedictory was revealing
about the methods of the junta which
now controls “Labor.”
She said she could see no future for
the Australian people in the Labor party,
which is "becoming a front organisation
for the Communist party.”
She told the party in her letter of
resignation that “in my view the present
policies of the Labor party are not for
the betterment of Australia”:
The president, Mr. Campbell, told all those
opposed to Dr. Evatt's leadership, and the
policies imposed by the Federal Executive,
that they could only remain in the A.L.P.
if they accepted them without question.
This I cannot do. I consider this imposition
totalitarian and oppressive.
She said that “to her disgust she saw
Right-wingers, who recently went to


trade - unionists advocating court -
controlled ' ballots, now prepared to
remain silent on this matter”—-“afraid
to raise their voices in opposition lest
they lose their membership of the A.L.P.,
of which the foreign policy represented
Dr. Evatt’s views and was one of com-
plete appeasement of the Soviet Union
and the nations of the Red orbit.”
Miss Nappa has joined the Democratic
Labor Party, but the cynical careerists
of the A.L.P. care little for her revela-
tions. Their attitude has been exhibited
by Messrs. Eddie Ward and Dan Curtin,
Federal caucus-members of the A.L.P.
executive, at the first meeting of which
Mr. Ward, only temporarily entitled to
sit, started the political murder of his
deputy-leader Mr. Cal well and the Labor
leader in the Senate, Senator McKenna,
who are opposed to the Left-wing.
It is typical of Dr. Evatt’s tactics that
moves of this sort usually happen in his
absence, though it always turns out that
they have his approval when successful.
Mr. Ward also attacked Mr. Daly, the
former Whip of the party, and lambasted
Mr. Jock Nelson, M.H.R. for the
Northern Territory, for having called a
caucus meeting to elect representatives to
the executive instead of allowing Ward
himself and his erstwhile prawn-hawker
colleague to carry on. He, in fact, flayed
everybody involved* in the move for an
election, and it is quite obvious that the
fight is on publicly inside the caucus to
ensure that the Left will be in permanent
control of all offices and that the Right-
wingers are taken to the block before the
next Federal election. The hatchets are
now out with a vengeance.
The Liberal and Country parties no
doubt will rejoice at these tendencies. It
is clear that Labor is doing its utmost to
win the next Federal elections—like the
Queensland State elections—for its
opponents.
Lionel Lindsay Gallery
[From Krk 1 Bedford!
An anonymous Toowoomba (Q.) busi-
nessman has created a precedent in worth-
while patriotism which could be copied
by many who have made their money in
Australia. He has donated in trust to the
City of Toowoomba and the nation the
cash to create a unique Australian art
gallery and historical library for that
city, to be known as the “Lionel Lindsay
Art Gallery and Library.”
The anonymous founder of this new
home for Australiana is not stinting his
personal expenditure in order to give
Toowoomba and Australia a gallery and
library “to perpetuate the memory of the
founders of Australian art and history.”
The benefactor has bought a home
facing Queen’s Park, Toowoomba, and
will begin its demolition soon, while
architects C. Marks and P. J. Tate work
upon the plans for the gallery and
library soon to be erected.
The founder is providing 300 valuable
Australian paintings, 400 rare Australian
books, and will get in Australia, or from
overseas, considerable additions which he
will add to his gift to Toowoomba.
Sir Lionel Lindsay, who is now 84,
and lives at Wahroonga, Sydney, has
presented nearly a hundred of his etchings
and pictures to this new home of
Australiana.
It is hoped that the half-acre of land
on which the gallery will be built will be
included in the overall landscape design
of the Toowoomba Botanic Gardens.
Assistance in the collection is also
being given by Sir Daryl Lindsay,
director of the National Art Gallery,
Melbourne, and brother of Lionel.
Playford Smelts a Rat
South Australia’s Tom Playford
suspects that there’s some funny-business
about the Snowy Mountains Agreement
soon to be signed by the Commonwealth,
N.S.W. and Victorian Governments, the
purpose of which is to allocate the water
that will be made available by the diver-
sion of the Snowy River and the hydro-
electric power that will be generated
under the scheme.
Playford fears that the new agreement
may infringe • South Australian rights
guaranteed under the River Murray
Waters Agreement. What heightens his
suspicions is the fact that his requests for
a copy of the proposed agreement have
been ignored, yet Sir Arthur Fadden said
recently that the agreement was to be
signed soon.
Answering a questioner in the S.A.
Assembly, Playford said:
For some reason this is a hush-hush
document which has not been made available
to me.
The existing scheme for utilising
Murray River water has been in operation
for over 40 years, and the three interestea
States have worxed together amicably in
carrying it out. If the Murray waters
are to be augmented by an additional flow
from the Snowy River, it would seem that
South Australia should automatically be
consulted and should be entitled to a
share in the extra water. Instead of this,
it looks very much as if N.S.W. and
Victoria, with the approval of the Com-
monwealth Government, are planning to
draw-off the whole of the new flow for
their own irrigation purposes before it
reaches the S.A. border.
A spokesman of the Snowy Mountains
Authority has been quoted as saying that
South Australia has no right to share in
the Snowy waters. Playford begs to differ,
and says he is prepared to take the matter
to the High Court if necessary. In the
meantime he is certainly entitled to know
what’s cooking in the deep-freeze.
After Import-licensing
[From “Stromto”!
Observers of the vagaries of import-
licensing over the years, and of their
impact on industries old and new, can
be excused for doubting whether these
controls will ever disappear and for
wondering what would happen if they
did. The repetition of the Government’s
determination to work towards complete
removal of the system is becoming a
trifle tedious, and certainly civil servants
in Canberra don't believe that such a
consummation is either in sight or to be
desired.
The trend of world events, the demands
for Australian primary and secondary
exports, the effects of possible drought on
our receipts abroad from wheat and wool,
the increasing domestic consumption of
products previously (or now) exported,
are all factors which have to be weighed
in the balance against the artificial
restriction (without benefit of even Tariff
Board inquiry) of imports and the extent
of the inflation to which such a policy
gives rise.
Two aspects of the system warrant
closer attention than they have yet been
given, and the Government might con-
sider some kind of impartial inquiry,
possibly by the political science school
of the National University. These are
the impact of licensing on many long-
established businesses and on many
businesses set-up after the war by ex-
servicemen and others (including many
migrants using the capital they had
brought out of Europe), especially in the
textile field, and on the development of
some manufacturing industries.
Many of these latter are admittedly
uneconomic, and would fade expensively
out of existence if the umbrella of
licensing were removed.
What should be known, and published,
is the fate of the capital, of the principals
and of the employees in those firms
which have been strangled out of
existence by the decisions of non-business
bureaucrats, operating in the sound-
proof rooms of Canberra (proof against
even the loud protests of many politicians
of all parties in Parliament House near
by), and working without a modicum of
the knowledge, experience and skilled
sifting of technical evidence which is
apparent in the Tariff Board’s record on
similar matters. What should also be
known, and published, is the extent to
which capital and skill have been put
into manufacturing, either in whole or
in part, of products which can and should
be imported more economically from the
standpoints of national development, of
lower export costs and of individual
benefit.
Some of these products may be classi-
fied in Canberra as “essential,” although
we have never been given the benefit of
knowing what the officials put in this
category, either with or without the
approval of the Ministry, but others will
clearly be unnecessary if we return to a
balance in import policy, and decide to
take better care of our overseas balances
by other means.
Perhaps the Tariff Board itself would
be the best medium for the kind of inves-
tigation which is clearly needed if we are
to see where we have gone and where we
are going. It is undeniable that the
controls have been used, wrongly and in
defiance of GATT, as a kind of extra
tariff-protection. The effects have not
been assessed, but if we are to reach and
maintain reasonable stability again they
must be known. The public and the
Parliament should demand them.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
/""'IRLS of the local church choir pay
3d. per week to cover expenses;
handing over two-bob one said, “This
squares me up to May, ’54.” —“J.J.A.”
*1* ♦> ❖
“Tackline S.”: Glass-eye makers must
be teetotallers. Saw one of their customers
the morning-after with glass-eye gleam-
ing purely beside its inflamed mate. They
should come in sets ; then the more the
beer glides down the more bleary falsy
the Nelsonian can fit.
❖ ❖ *
“MacHoots”: I made the mistake of
telling a migrant from northern
Italy that I had had some con-
versation about him with some
of his compatriots from the south
but couldn’t quite make out what they
were trying to say. “They don’t speak
English very well,” I said. “They can’t
even speak Italian! ” he said with scorn ;
and went on seriously to assure me that
he could understand them better in their
broken English than in their native
patois.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Sam”: Order of favoritism in the
Australia-wide hymn-poll conducted by
the Central Methodist Mission was:
“Abide With Me,” written in 1847, “Rock
of Ages” (1776), “The Old Rugged
Cross,” “Nearer, My God, to Thee,” and
“Lead Kindly Light.” Odds at close of
poll were not given, but the results are
considered to represent heavy reverses
for backers of hymns more modern than
ancient.
❖ ❖ ❖
“8.M.”: Members of the cast -of Noel
Coward’s “Hay Fever,” being put on
by the Melbourne University Dramatic
Club next month, sallied downtown with
brushes, glue and a pile of posters
announcing You’ll Catch Hay Fever
in July to set off their publicity-
campaign. Two fairly tipsy sailors rolled
along to watch; though not in a fit
condition to read, each supporting the
other, they examined the poster. One
turned to his mate: “Aah,” he depre-
cated, “it’s just another one of those
scares!”
♦> *> ♦>
“Kenyas”: In its desire to prevent the
spread of lung-cancer Westralia’s Public
Health Department is running an anti-
smoking campaign ; even the gent, who
directs the campaign is making efforts to
give the habit away.
<£♦ fj
“Judee”: Bertel Nielsen, a Dane born
in Sydney, has built an ultra-modern
hotel in Vejle (Denmark) and named it
Hotel Australia. The coat-of-arms over
the entrance includes two kangaroos, and
Australian flora and fauna decorate some
of the 108 rooms. Ih each room is a
leather-bound volume describing Aus-
tralia and containing 400 illustrations.
At the official opening Nielsen served
kangaroo-tail soup, flown from Aus-
tralia.
❖ ♦> *:♦
“Roona”: The small boys at our
boarding-school made it a bit hot filling-
up on left-overs in the pantry in the
dead of night, so the masters were alerted.
Hearing footsteps creeping past, the
housemaster waited sounds of return,
then flung open his bedroom door on a
quivering culprit laden with loot for the
dormitory. “Where do you come from,
you young devil?” he roared. “Please,
sir,” quaked the literal and truthful bush-
boy, “out past Bourke.”
❖ *:♦
“Sam”: As a member of a committee
collecting historic objects for a centenary
celebration I’ve been combing antique-
shops for original oil-paintings by early
Australian artists. At one such shop the
elderly proprietress, entering into the
spirit of the chase completely, pointed
to some early paintings and assured me
that the artists were “definitely dead.”
❖ ❖ ***
“Rumee”: Hollywood isn’t the only
place in the States that’s survey-ridden (B.
19/6/’57). Vassar conducted a survey on
whether women derived full benefits from
a college-education, etc.; a team of
psychologists spent four years studying
and questioning students, and tracing and
checking-up on alumnae (old girls!) of the
past 20 years, to produce a 5000-word
report which found: that the girls went
to college to get a man!
CHANGING WEATHER
“The C.5.1.R.0. says the world’s weather is
changing, or maybe we are near the end ot a
cycle lasting roughly 25 years.”
The C.5.1.R.0. says it appears
Our weather-change may not be
permanent,
A round of sportive seasons almost
spent,
A cycle lasting five-and-twenty years—
The time, indeed, with which an ending
nears
Of Labor s, reign in Queensland’s
Parliament,
A rain that was a drought of good
intent,
A drought that was a reign of racketeers:
The Queensland Liberal, inured to grief
And almost lost to hope, is wondering
still
Whether to ring the bells or beat the
breast,
Finding a normal future past belief,
As one who sees the rivers run uphill,
The morning sun uprising in the west.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


A MONG those who add their special
joie de vivre to the London
scene are the street-musicians. The barrel-
organists are getting rare, but there are
still the accordionists, the spoon-players,
the one-man-band, the woman with
voice-penetration of at least half-a-mile
in the heaviest traffic, the four-piece jazz-
bands, and the highbrow who fiddles
Bach —and very well—to concert patrons
outside the Royal Festival Hall. But the
most endearing to come my way lately
is a bearded ancient who sits on a little
stool and plays a harp!—“Tom Trout”
(London).
❖ *i* ❖
“U.U.M.P.”: “Ceg” on the frugal
luncheon-menu of a former general-
manager who lived to be about 90 (B.
12/6/’57) reminded me also of a general-
manager of similar habits and longevity
whom a section of his staff dubbed “The
Bowel-less B ” ; it always seemed a
mystery how he could eat at all, let alone
live.
<t*
“Allan B.” : South-street (Ballarat, Vic.)
contests this year have a record prize-
money of £6200. Indoor contests of
singing, dancing, speeches and the like
will use up £4200, and the balance of
£2OOO will go in brass-band champion-
ships. The plum grand-opera aria prize
has skyrocketed to 2000-guineas, with
an additional trust-fund available to
subsidise the winner’s career. A heavy
preference has been given this year to
Australian compositions, both in the
music and drama, sections. The contests
will drag right through September and
October.
♦j. <:«
“C.G.Mc.”: 1 suppose, if it's “See you
later, Alma Mater” in the universities
(B. 19/6/’57) the reply would be “In a
while, Bibliophile.”
“Zake”: And, touching on these
rhyming farewells, surely it would not
be entirely out of place for one citizen
in Chowland to take leave of a friend
with a polite: “Good afternoon,
Goon! ”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Doric”: He yawned through “Les
Sylphides,” snoozed through “Apres-midi
d’un Faun,” and at the end of the show
had to be shaken vigorously. “Where
shall we go now, dear?” she asked,
hoping for supper at a swish cafe. “I
think we’ll go down to the morgue,” he
replied ; “I’d just like to see people vho
know how to keep still for a change.”
♦> * *
“Phil Anthus”: Pictorial advertising
hasn’t the field to itself in glorification
of the grin (B. 12/6/’57). The latest
victim was the Pope. Coming upon a
photo of him smiling broadly, I looked
to see what the joke was about, only to
find a serious impeachment of the Corns!
❖ ❖ ❖
“D.J.G.”: Since reading about affida-
vits sworn on a dictionary instead of a
Bible (B. 19/6/'57) our office has argued
inconclusively (a) that affidavits so sworn
could have no legal standing, ( b ) that the
deponents were liable to some sort of
penalty for not making sure they were
taking their Bible-oath, and (c) that the
J.P. concerned could or should have been
unfrocked —or whatever is done to J.P.s.
Can “Doric,” or someone in the know
about affidavits, put us right?
❖ *> *>
“Hay”: The younger men might be
going to bed without pyjamas (B.
19/6/’57) and thereby alarming the
British manufacturers, but it seems the
Australian trade is safe enough if the
admission of a marine-dealer is any in-
dication of the trend among older men.
He assures me that for some time now he
has been setting out on his regular
Saturday spree with pyjamas on under
his suit, previous experience having
taught him that as like as not he’ll spend
part of the weekend as a guest of the
Government.
»*♦ »*« «$>
“0.G.”: “They made rain fall at Tam-
worth by seeding clouds with silver
iodide,” said the woman at the upstairs-
window, “but in Victoria they had to stop
trying because of heavy rain. 1 thought
planes could fly in any weather.” “So
they can,” said the girl-next-door, “but
perhaps the iodide would lose its efficiency
if it got wet.”
*i* *x* *t*
“Bo”: Those who dabble in medical
figures conclude from observation over
several decades that the intrusion of
women into industry has made no
difference to their physiques, except in the
matter of their hands, which have become
slightly enlarged, with, of course, the
advantage of bigger thumbs to keep their
husbands under.
❖ <♦ ♦>
“Paddy Doyle”: Shame on your
feathers, “Keg” (B. 12/6/’57), to admit
that the 2nd A.L.H. should have had
anything as low as a bugler on its
strength! Perish the thought! My failing
memory still insists that the only con-
cession made by your trumpeters to
democracy was to carry a redundant bugle
which they would no more have sounded
than Paderewski would have twanged the
jews’ harp.
❖ ♦> ❖
“P.M.”/J.C.W.: Noel Madison, star
and producer of “The Diary of Anne
Frank” at Sydney Theatre Royal, replies
to your correspondent “Rarthur” (B.
12/6/’57): “I took the name ‘Noel’ not
because it was more appropriate for a
producer, but because Warner Brothers
Pictures insisted on a change from ‘Nat’
when I entered films. Also, in ‘The
Ringer’ I didn’t play Soapy—my character
was Sam Hackett. I was Soapy in ‘The
Terror.’ ” Mr. Madison’s change of first-
name occurred directly after his five-year
stay in Australia 29 years ago, when he
went to Hollywood.
❖ * »>
“Merry”: On the Sydney-Palm Beach
bus, shortly after the increase in fares,
1 mildly protested I was being over-
charged. With a flourish the conductor
got out his book, and quite a friendly
argument ensued, which, of course, he
won. I couldn’t remember afterwards
where I had put the tickets, and I said


to the woman across the aisle, “Gosh, I
seem to have lost them, after all that. ’
The next minute I heard a voice call out,
“Show all tickets, please.” It was the
conductor trying to frighten me, and amid
much amusement he searched on the floor
till he found them. I thanked him and
told him how nice it was to have such
a thoughtful conductor, and there I
thought the matter ended ; but, hearing
more laughter, I turned round to see him
approaching with a large slice of cake on
a cardboard plate.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Bicky”: A.L.P. decree “One man, one
job” certainly does not apply to an
acquaintance I met at the dogs. Starts
the day doing a milk-round and, after
completing that at 5 a.m., goes straight on
to a bread-round, finishing about 2.30
or 3 p.m. From 4 p.m. till 6.30 p.m. he
works as a temporary barman at the
pub. In addition, he is bagman for a
bookie at dog-meetings three nights a
week. “The work’s easy,” he says, “and l
knock out my fifty notes a week. In
fact, the only complaint I have is that
the publican wants me to work all day
Saturday, but I won’t be in it —a bloke’s
gotta have some relaxation!” He sleeps
all day Sunday.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tim”: Wfiien the Boer War was over
there were a few buglers (B. 19/6/’57) to
spare around Hobart. One of them got a
job as milk-oh . . . horse-drawn carts with
big milk-cans, the tap protruding through
a hole in the back-board of the cart —
householders were expected to rush out
with their jugs and billies. The bugler
played a comet really well and customers
knew when he was coming from a mile
away. At first he started tootling in the
early hours of the morning, but angry mm
took him aside and reasoned with him that
unless he refrained from disturbing their
slumber, he and his cornet would end-
up in the deep waters of the Derwent. So
it was only on his midday delivery that
“The Holy City” or “Onward Christian
Soldiers” came floating through the
windows. Whether he was assassinated
or merely sacked, it was not long before
the musical milk-oh was heard no more.
♦> «?♦ ❖
“Tom Trout”: “Waltzing Matilda” is
being discussed in the correspondence
columns of the “Manchester Guardian.
The most erudite-seeming suggestion to
date is that it is “very old and German.”
Ancient Teutonic apprentices, it appears,
went on a journey when out of their time
—i.e., became “journeymen” —and while
so wandering were said to be “ auf der
walz.” How about that?
►> ❖ ❖
“Fordpop”: Lost the keys of my car
and went to our town's dealer fully
expecting to be slugged for a new barrel
and set of keys. “What’s the escutcheon-
number?” he asked. I checked on the
car —although I’ve been driving it for a
year I hadn’t noticed the “F-549” stamped
on the plate—and informed the dealer.
He hadn’t one in stock, but phoned an
agency which stocks English cars of an-
other make. They had them, and sent the
errand-boy around with a couple. They
fitted, and I drove home, 6s. 6d. lighter
in the pocket and pounds wiser in
experience. What’s to stop anyone get-
ting the key-number from the escutcheon-
plate on the door-handle, buying a key,
then reading the car’s ignition-number,
buying another key, and driving it away?,
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Narumee”: “Sunray’s” assumption
that Nashos in the East sleep in saris
(B. 19/6/’57) will have sahibs from
Beirut to Bangkok chortling. The
garment is the “loongyi,” a wide tube of
silk or cotton wrapped round the male
middle, and extending to his calves.
Females use it too ; they merely hoick it
a bit higher, display more leg, and call
it a “sarong.” It can cause moments of
dismay, as when my husband was
summoned by night to quell the squeak
in a lady-guest’s ceiling-fan. He duly
clambered on a chair perched atop a high-
boy, and craned to inspect the
mechanism ; he’d got two blades off, and
the screwdriver functioning on the third,
when his loongyi slid swiftly and sound-
lessly down to his ankles. The lady may
have batted an eyelid, but all she said
was: “Shall I pass the oil-can when you
hand down the other blade?”
INTER PLANETARY PIONEERS
“A team of U.S. medical-research scientists
has reported that there is ample evidence that
our germs would have no difficulty in living in
the conditions existing on Mars.”
For far too long we’ve looked upon our
germs
As we do worms —
That is, they’re here to do a job of
work,
However lowly,
Ordained by Nature; if they had a brain
(It seems quite plain )
It operated in a kind of murk,
And very slowly,
Rather like those owned by some
bureaucrats.
Yet one thing that’s
Quite evident is that their nous we’ve un-
Derestimated.
They’ve learned to be (as we their hosts
have not)
Content with their lot.
No ceaseless striving after Number
One,
Never frustrated.
They float along our arteries at their ease,
Do as they please,
Live well with little effort, laugh at tax -
Es, disputations;
They’re never bothered with domestic
strife.
They live a life <
So placid that they even can relax
With blood-relations !
Resistance-building is their special forte.
You’d catch a snort
Had you an ear so keenly tuned to hear
Your pet bacillus
When mention’s made of new germ-
killing drug.
The wag’s no mug!
For centuries he’s made it crystal-clear
He still can kill us.
And now he’s proved that he can conquer
space!
Well, save our face !
It’s news like this that makes cows
grow unkined,
For crows to cark at.
Well, I propose, for one, my germs to
keep
Herded like sheep.
You never know. The first space-ship
might find
An export-market!
N.s.w.
S. W. K.


AN invalid-pensioner who took
a jam-jar full of small change
to pay his rates in a Victorian country
town was barked out of the office by the
town-clerk because small change over
two-pounds was not legal tender. So the
pensioner had to hobble down to the
bank for his civil servant. —“Doormat.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: “Sunray’s” par. on
Mumma’s non-concern about her daughter
fainting three times (B. 12/6/’57) seems
to follow a pattern. Frequently 1 have
youngsters of both sexes reporting that
they have the nausea and the vomiting—-
in fact, all the symptoms of a cosy little
bout of the gastric—and to my query of
“How long have you had it?” the reply
is usually “Oh, I was up and down all
last night.” Then, “Why ever did you
come to work?” always evolves the same
reply: “Mum said best 1 come to work,
and come and ask you.” So, mostly I
accept this, and send them home again ;
but once, not feeling the best myself, 1
said “Ask me what ?” Came the sad
reply, “1 dunno!”
♦♦♦ ♦*♦ ♦>
“8.A.H.”: A lad interviewed by the
compere of a radio-amateur show
recited an imposing list of *eisteddfod-
successes in piano-playing. “And what,”
asked the compere, “is your ambition? A
concert-pianist?” “No,” said the lad,
“a plumber and drainer!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Uramao”: On the centenary of the
“Taranaki Daily News,” born when the
Maoris were far from the friendly folk
they are today, the management invested
a four-figure sum of which the interest
will be devoted to annual prizes for
secondary schools’ literary work. The
“News” is the third N.Z. paper to reach
its centenary, the “Taranaki Herald”
being founded in 1852 and the “Wan-
ganui Chronicle” in 1856.
A A A
V V V
“Rumeena”: When it’s a buyers’
market again, if ever, I’m looking forward
to the going-out of business of: (1) The
menace who claims that his plastic
product is “impervious” to hot water —
and a first dunking produces cracks. (2)
The honeyed talker who promises
a 24-hour repair-service on electri-
cal gadgets purchased from him —
it proves to be a 24-day service. (3) The
hyperbolist who describes the prolonged
and meticulous process of successful
laundering of nylon and no-iron cotton
shirts as “wash in a wink,” and even
suggests that the wearers are capable of—
nay, willing to —undertake it. (4) The
joker who fashions matches so that, when
struck, the flaming heads fly away from
the stick.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Loma Doone”: Gazing on a window
of a Bible Society shop, full of religious,
serious or semi-serious books, I espied
the quotation “Fere dignum et justuin
est,” for which, I believe, the translation
is “It is really or truly worthy and fair.”
It struck a fellow-gazer that from "Vere
dignum” might stem the Australian yard-
stick “Fair dinkum.” Anyone else any
thought on this, or in lieu, the correct
derivation?
*l* ❖ *
“P.0.M.C.”: During a P.M.G. super-
visory re fresher-course, one of us was
called to the phone. After a few sparing
words, he returned to his seat apparently
unmoved. That evening the papers in-
formed us that he had won £lOOO in the
N.S.W. lottery.
"Let's put it this Way, honey —YOU have the glamor, the personality,
the beauty, the intellect, the know-hoW; but Dianne has the 40-26-34 .”
“Magellan”: If the Queen of England’s
son becomes Prince of Wales, why
shouldn’t the Queen of Australia’s
daughter be Princess of New South
Wales?
♦!♦ ♦*♦ ♦*«■
“Warick”: The New Australian was
reading the instructions on a door: “Place
two pennies in the slot and pull back
knob.” Bewildered, he said, “Eet ees
only the front-knob 1 see.”
♦!» ♦>
“Wusslean”: In the General Sessions
Appeals Court at Hawthorn (Vic.) a
suburban dairy appealed against a con-
viction on a charge of having sold
adulterated milk, evidence having been
given that the remains of a large black
spider were found in a bottle of milk
bought from the dairy. The Appeals
Judge ruled that as the spider’s remains
were stuck to the bottom of the bottle and
not floating in the milk, the milk had not
become adulterated. Conviction quashed
on the adulteration charge: dairy found
guilty of having sold milk from a dirty
bottle ; fine reduced from £7 to a fiver.
*»* ❖ ♦!♦
“R.H.S.E.” (Argentina): I had to
examine a small mine in the foothills of
the Andes, and while yarning with the
owner over a bottle of vino, he mentioned
that some years ago the mine-manager
was an Australian ; he died one night
from a stray bullet when the boys were
holding a fiesta. Some of his
papers had been kept, and among them
was a batch of red covers, Bulletins for
1926, carefully preserved for any Eng-
lish-speaking. person -who passed by. I
took the April 1 number away with me
and enjoyed reading and comparing it
with current numbers. With so many
papers on the down-grade these days it
was a pleasure to see that this does not
apply to The Bulletin.
PERENNIAL
“Lilies can be finicky.” —Gardening note.
Don’t kid yourself that only Lils
Turn up their fussy noses /
In divers stricken domiciles
You’ll find that Daphnes, Daffodils
And Violets and Roses
And sundry Fleurs ( what’s in a name 7)
Turn theirs up, too. They’re all the same !
N.S.W.
P. O. M. C.


POLITICAL POINTS
.Queensland will have its election on
August 3, a date which Gair said was
impossible when Opposition parties sug-
gested it a month ago. Rolls closed
yesterday and nominations will close on
July 12.
• •
Premier Bolte hopes to hear the High
Court’s decision on uniform-taxation
within a week. He told Morwell people
at a civic reception that if the appeal
were successful it would mean another
£6-8 million revenue, without additional
taxation. If the Victorian Premier’s cal-
culations are right the verdict would also
mean that some other Premier would
have to tell his people that they’d have
to manage on £6-8 million less or else
pay higher rates of taxation.
• •
From the Treasurer’s viewpoint Budget
forecasts are mischievous, but you can’t
stop people from talking, and the motor-
industry is talking freely of “substantial”
sales-tax cuts. It is known that a sub-
committee of Federal Cabinet is examin-
ing submissions from car-manufacturers
for some easing of the tax-slug to com-
pensate the local industry for the
advantage last April’s import-licensing
relaxation gave to imported cars.
Manufacturers of “all-Australian”
cars have told the sub-committee that
nothing less than a 10 per cent, cut in
the present 30 per cent, sales-tax on
private cars will be of much use.
• •
What’s become of the recent storm in
the teapot? In Ceylon tea-growers are
professing unconcern at the threatened
competition in Australia of better-grade
Formosan tea, because only about 15-
million pounds in all of black (and
allegedly scented)- tea is produced on the
Chiang Kai-shek island. In the meantime,
no one has explained how such large
quantities suddenly reached Australian
consumers, or why some grocers are
selling Ceylon-blend cheaply in paper
bags.
1 • •
There’s a move on to call a meeting of
Afro-Asian trade-union representatives
in the near future, possibly in China. It
seems possible that some of the recent
delegations from Australia to that country
have been discussing the project, and
that official aid will be sought in the
matter of an Australian delegation. Per-
haps Haylen and co. will return starry-
eyed about the project, and there seems
little doubt that the Doc. would approve,
unless he’s persuaded in Cairo to set up
an Opposition there, and so keep Nasser
permanently in office.
• •
“Lobby”: There’s an odd angle to the
record-breaking progress being made on
the Snowy Mountains scheme —too
many records may cause the Federal
Government financial embarrassment.
Although no one can visualise any grave
problem, it is admitted that the rapid
advance made by the American engineer-
ing group of Kaiser-Walsh-Perini-
Raymond has thrown out of gear
Treasury plans for the orderly financing
of the scheme. Anticipated completion of
the Adaminaby Dam next year—two
years ahead of schedule —will mean that
the Treasury will have to earmark
additional money to commence other
projects in the 25 years’ scheme two years
earlier than anticipated.
Old hands say the Kaiser group and a
party of French contractors sponsored by
Etudes et Entreprises will be in the box-
seat for new tenders to be invited within
the next few months. These are for the
Tantangara Dam, which will back-up the
waters of the upper reaches of the Mur-
rumbidgee and divert them through a
tunnel into the Adaminaby Dam, and
the Tooma Dam, which will create a lake
on the headwaters of the Tooma River
and divert its flow into the Tumut Pond
Reservoir. With the fixing of these two
contracts the Authority will consider call-
ing tenders for the great T 2 underground
power-station of 320,000 k.w. capacity.
• •
One result of the Labor split in
Queensland may be that the graveyard
vote at this election may be the lowest
on record.
• •
Watch out, N. S. Wales shire-coun-
cillors! The Cahills are on your track!
Speaking at the opening of the Shires
Association conference in Sydney, Minis-
ter for Local Governmertt Renshaw
said that his Government intended to
appoint a commissioner to redraw local-
government boundaries in the central-
west of the State. On past experience this
means that some shires are due for the
axe, in accordance with the Cahill policy
of centralisation.
Cutler, Country-party M.L.A. for
Orange, has remindld his district that
since Labor came into office in N. S.
Wales in 1941 it has abolished more than
50 shires and municipalities. In most
cases the abolitions and amalgamations
have taken place without the consent of
ratepayers or councillors —very often
despite their strong opposition.
At one time the Local Government. Act
provided that no such changes could be
made without a poll of the ratepayers, but
Cahill, when Minister for Local Govern-
ment, had that clause of the Act repealed.
• •
Impressive records of primary produc-
tion were quoted in the Governor’s
speech at the opening of the S.A. Parlia-
ment. In the 1956-57 season S.A. had
a record grain harvest (73 million
bushels), record numbers of sheep (15
million), beef-cattle (365,000), dairy-
cattle (265,000), lambs marked (4,930,000)
and a record wool-production (187
million lb.).
• •
Lewis G. Wells, the Chicagoan “inter-
national chief” of the Wells Organisation
for church-fund raising, declined in a
Melbourne interview (in a top-floor suite
on expensive Queen’s-road) to disclose
his income.
Later on he claimed the organisation
had raised £lO million, for 600 Australian
churches, in the three years it had operated
here.
At the “about five per cent, of the
fund-target” charged by the Wells
organisation, this would give them Aus-
tralian earnings of £500,000, or £166,000
a year.
• •
Sydney's tow-away law received a check
last week when Judge Curlewis upheld
the appeal of a motorist against a fine
of £3 for offensive behavior. The alleged
offence had occurred after the man’s car
had been toWed-away for illegal parking.
His Honor found that the towing-away
had been illegal because the constable
had not made “reasonable inquiries”
before acting.
The judge did not, however, give any
ruling as to what constituted “reasonable
inquiries” within the meaning of the
Traffic Act. He said it would be very
difficult to decide that.
• •
Any Labor man will tell you that to
stand on a unity-ticket with a Communist
is to risk expulsion from the A.L.P. But
this didn’t prevent a unity-ticket retaining
control of the Australian Railways Union
council in Victoria by 29 seats to 25.
Previously they had held 33 seats to 21.
The Labor-Communist alliance will also
have a majority of annual conference
delegates—44-40—and will control the
State executive with 11 seats to 9.
Industrial-groupers gained ground in the
election, but the A.R.U. still belongs to
Comrade J. J. Brown.
Whichever way they look at it, the
A.L.P. boys have little to be pleased
about in the result.
• •
“Doormat”: As a result of the many
concessions granted by the Bolte Govern-
ment on probate-duty, Victoria is now
the second-lowest in Australia in death-
duty charges. Western Australia is the
lowest. Bolte has raised from £l5OO to
£5OOO the exemption of estates left to
widows and children and has provided
substantial concessions on the duty
between £5OOO and £lO,OOO. On an
estate of £20,000 the Victorian duty is
£175 lower than New South Wales. So
to save money, see the scrub State and
die!


If it is accepted that all the meetings
of the last few weeks were merely pre-
liminary canters, the Queensland election-
campaign opened in earnest this week.
Nicklin delivered the Country-party
policy-speech on Monday and Morris
opened for the Libs, last night. Duggan
expounds A.L.P. policy on Thursday and
Gair the Q.L.P. line next Monday. Nick-
lin spoke at Maroochydore ; the other
three chose the Brisbane City Hall for
their platform.
• •
American scientists have evolved the
safest atomic bomb of the lot. This "one
doesn’t go off at all.
• •
By courtesy of Premier Gair, Singa-
pore-’flu vaccine is to be made available
to all candidates in the Queensland
election campaign. It might also be a
good idea to inoculate therii against
Noogoora burr.
• •
When an American syndicate com-
pleted the purchase of Kiliarney one of
its members remarked that for the first
time for hundreds of years not an acre
of Kiliarney was under English control.
This is no doubt a cause for rejoicing, but
how long will it be before Killarney’s
emerald isles and winding bays are
echoing the cry “Go home, Yank”?
TV Channel 7 (ATN) had the honor to
present Mr. Joe Arthur to its viewing
public on Sunday night.
• •
Cahill is able to report a surplus of
£130,000 for the financial year 1956-57, an
improvement of nearly £lOO,OOO on the
Budget estimate. The result is gratifying in
comparison with the deficit of £6,833,520
in the previous year. Most of the im-
provement can be put down to the new
Land Tax (Budget estimate £3* million,
but apparently the actual receipts were
higher) and to increased fares and
freights on Government transport. Cahill
also acknowledges the State’s indebtedness
to deceased estates, which weighed-in
with a bigger slab of probate-duty than
the experts had reckoned.
• •
Railway accounts were again the big
blot on the copybook, showing a loss of
£5,785,000 for the year, despite the
swingeing increase in fares and freights.
The Budget estimate for the loss was only
£3,850,0(X) —big enough, in all con-
science. It seems high time Silliac or
one of its mates was put to work com-
puting railway accounts. Only a month
ago Transport Minister Enticknap said
that “if the figures keep on as they are”
the loss would be £5 million. Apparently
in four weeks the figures misbehaved to
the tune of £785,000. Tram- and bus-
losses were less than the Budget forecast
—£1,200,000 instead of £1,835,000.
OUT OF THE TOP-HAT
(when other stunts are scarce)
The figures for rail- and transport-
losses show the weak spot in N. S. Wales
finances. With balanced transport-
accounts Cahill would have had another
£6,985,000 available for much-needed
schools and hospitals.
• •
As part of a campaign to conserve
exchange India is putting tight restrictions
on foreign travel. Is this a subversive
attempt to keep Nehru at home?
• •
No Communist candidates will be
nominated for the Queensland election ;
party member's are being told to support
A.L.P. candidates. Opposition and Q.L.P.
members are saying this proves all they
have said about the alliance between the
A.L.P. and the Reds. A.L.P. members
are saying it is a dark plot to defeat them.
Still, they’re not carrying their resentment
so far as to refuse to accept the votes.
• •
Five unions—Watersiders, Seamen’s,
A.R.U., A.E.U. and Miners’ Federation
—have decided to consider an appeal to
the High Court on the Constitutionality
of the punitive powers of the Common-
wealth Industrial Court. Every union in-
volved has a Red and lawless back-
ground. It is surprising how, in industrial
matters, those who most disregard the law
are most eager to make use of it for their
own purposes.
• •
One of the most cynical of Middle
Eastern transactions on both sides
is the grant to Jordan of £4-£
million by the U.S. Government
to buy defence-equipment. It will
be largely used to buy British equipment,
British defence having been liquidated
with the warm encouragement of Mr.
Dulles so as to end “colonialism” in
Jordan.
• •
T. G. Murray, M.L.C., is retiring from
the N. S. Wales Legislative Council.
Readers of “Hansard” could be excused
for thinking he retired about 20 years ago.
• •
The British Government is considering
giving M.P.s a tax-free allowance of £750
a year in addition to the £lOOO-a-year—
plus £2 a day attendance-money—out of
which they have to pay secretarial
expenses, postage, telephone-calls be-
yond London, stationery, transport,
meals and lodging. Seems that the British
must have a very inferior lot of M.P.s
if the arguments used in Australia for higl
pay are valid. Here a country M.P. gefi
£3150 (with £BOO tax-free) plus £3 13s. 6d
a day Canberra allowance, stamps, free
transport and what not. Yet look at some
of the types we get for our money! .
• •
Tasmanian Premier Cosgrove hasn’t
thrown in the towel in the lottery fight
yet. His next move is to be a bill to
legalise football-pools in Tasmania.


PERSONAL ITEM
Passed on at Cairns (Q.), at 72, Dr.
Hugo Flecker, radiologist and naturalist.
Honorary radiologist at Austin Hospital
and Prince Henry’s Hospital, Melbourne,
and honorary lecturer in X-ray Anatomy
at Melbourne University, he went to
Cairns in 1932 and became widely known
as a naturalist, making a particular study
of venomous sea-creatures in northern
waters, and playing a big part in the
formation of the North Queensland
Naturalists’ Club, of which he was for
13 years president. He was a major in
the Australian Army Medical Corps in
War I, serving in Egypt and France.
• •
“Moorapi”: Place of honor at Angus
and Robertson’s Melbourne dinner to
launch the facsimile of the first edition
(1915) of Songs of the Sentimental Bloke
was occupied by Hal Gye, sporting an
unconventional red waistcoat. “Den’s”
illustrator revealed in a nostalgic speech
that the model for his cherub-like figures
was himself; and he recited a poem he
had written in praise of Dennis . . .
There was an empty chair, in respectful
remembrance of C.J.D.
• •
Malcolm Oram, as might be expected
of a young man who, with his wife,
Anna, travelled half-way across the world
per motor-scooter, has some interesting
tales to tell of the experience—in fact,
he’s written a book of them, The Long
Brown Path, recently brought out by
Horwitz Publications. In at the The
Bulletin office the other day (both
Malcolm and his wife come from Sydney,
and have settled down here again, for
the time being, anyway), what struck this
interviewer was Oram’s sympathetic and
friendly evaluation of the people through
whose countries he passed. As he said,
he had much kindness, and often from
people who could least afford it. Also
some rough patches (as related in the
book), the effects of which will have to
wear off before he tackles anything
similar. He started an engineering-course
SYDNEY AUTHOR
at Sydney Tech., but didn’t complete it
before going overseas and is now work-
ing as a * draughtsman—as well as
on a novel, set in a middle-class Sydney
suburb. The Long Brown Path is his
first book.
• •
What with the weather, and one thing
and another, retailers are not a particu-
larly cheerful class of people lately, so
perhaps it’s appropriate that a hundred
CONFERENCE CHAIRMAN
of them are going off to Leura (N.S.W.),
a part of the Blue Mountains often
spoken of highly by honeymooners and
golfers. The object, though, is not
recreation but education —business educa-
tion —in fact, the fourth residential con-
ference held under the auspices of the
N.S.W: Retail Traders’ Association.
The conference, which will be held from
July 8 to July 12, will be chaired by John
Frederick Atholstone Lyon (herewith),
g.-m. of Buckingham’s Stores. He’s 39,
served in the Middle East and New
Guinea (Intelligence Corps and Ninth
Div. Sigs.) and his non-commercial
interests include Legacy and golf. N.S.W.
retailers have taken the lead with these
conferences, or schools, and there is
evidence of inter-State interest —for
instance, a couple of Victorians will
attend this one. Speakers include such
top-rank retailors as David Lloyd Jones,
Graham Nock, and Kurt Geiger, as well
as Professor John Clark, Norman Rout-
ley, of the Institute of Business Manage-
ment, and Lance Naylor, representing
other facets of business knowledge.
Apart from listening, conferees will
knuckle-down to three case-studies—
something on the lines of Army study-
groups, one gathers.
• •
An Australian who makes an un-
expected reappearance in Max Reinhardt’s
catalogue of new and forthcoming books
is Dr. Peter Crowcroft, who left Tasmania
in 1949 for Oxford and is now an expert
on shrews: the four-legged kind, unfor-
tunately. At Oxford Dr. Crowcroft was
studying ecology at the Bureau of
Animal Population; then for four years
he observed the house-mouse for the
Ministry of Agriculture; and in 1956
moved to take charge of the mammals
section at the British Museum of Natural
History. His book, in which he notes
that shrews live for only 18 months, is
called “The Life of the Shrew” —he must
have thought long and hard before dis-
carding “The Taming of the Shrew.”
• •
“Maitri”: So in his 75th year Sir
Compton Mackenzie has given away
living on remote islands and has settled-
down, like many another noted Scot, in
Edinburgh. When, 20 years ago, I was his guest
on the Isle of Barra in Scotland’s Outer
Hebrides, there were already signs that the
blustering northern climate was getting on his
nerves. Possibly because his sister, actress Fay
Compton, was at that time touring Aus-
tralasia, he was toying with the notion of seek-
ing an island-home in these parts, and had
approached the New Zealand Government con-
cerning one off the N.Z. coast. He was also
considering living on Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, and was anxious to learn anything I
might know about them. He still hopes to come
here before he hands in his checks.
With more than 80 books to his credit, Sir
Compton is still busy at his writing and hopes
to bring out at least another dozen. Those of
us acquainted with the Outer Isles are looking
forward to one he’s just completing, Rockets
Galore. Like The Ministry of Waste and
Whisky Galore, the new effort will be satirical. To
the acute dissatisfaction of all who know the
place, South Uist —one of the most romantic of
Hebridean places, with associations of Flora
Macdonald (she lived there on a farm called
Milton) and Bonnie Prince Charlie —is to become
a guided-missile range. Rockets Galore will be
Sir Compton’s method of having a crack at those
responsible for the notion.
One expects the study of a famous author to
have books lying everywhere, but Mackenzie’s,
when I saw it, was crowded with gramophone-
records. Not altogether surprising, since he
edited that excellent magazine “The Gramo-
phone.” He is passionately fond of music,
particularly of the Hebridean brand.
In a recent article Sir Compton speaks of
being tied to a chair while he writes for as long
as 10 hours at a stretch. When I knew him
on Barra he dictated all his work to one or
other of his two lady secretaries (they lived in
the house so as to be available whenever the
inspiration was active) and most of the literary
labor was done at dead of night. Mackenzie
was a serious and stimulating thinker, almost
worshipped by the island folk.
• •
Air-Vice-Marshal Sir Robert George,
who has completed his five-year term
as Governor of South Australia, will
continue in office for another two years.
He served with the Seaforth and Gordon
Highlanders in the early part of War I
in France, then with the R.F.C., same
place ; collected an M.C.; was with the
R.A.F. from its beginnings; in 1939,
was Air Attache Athens, Ankara; in
1944 A.O.C. Irak and Persia; Air
Attache Paris and head of the R.A.F.
delegation to France 1945-52. He is
credited with having played an important
part in developing the technique of dive-
bombing naval forces, and likes to draw
and paint—watercolors, favorite models,


S.A. GOVERNOR
wildflowers. He’s exhibited in a few
Adelaide art shows, and in his study hang
drawings from his hand of Churchill
and Menzies; another, of Playford, he
presented to the victim’s wife. Most of
us have ambitions of the Walter Mitty
kind —winning a lottery, owning a
harem, a trip round the world —but, with
so many amateur psychoanalysts knock-
ing around, few of us have the courage to
declare them. Here is Sir Robert’s: a
helicopter, to buzz off to Kangaroo
Island in before breakfast for a little
fishing.
• •
“H.H.” (London): Like many other Aus-
tralians, John Gunn burned his boats and came
to England to seek fortune as a writer. To
provide the fares and set himself up with capital
he worked as a journalist during the day and
sold real-estate at weekends, finding time also
lor running a theatre in the evening. He arrived
in London five years ago, full of energy, hopes
and determination. It was a painful first year.
His labors met with scant success and, with a
young wife at the Royal Academy of Dramatic
Art, his hard-earned capital ebbed away.
Reluctantly, he had to reconcile himself to the
hard truth that a writer’s life is, to all except
the lucky few, a part-time one.
He made some 50 applications for a job, with
a single favorable reply, and henceforward
became a press-officer with Vickers. Besides
routine matters and the editing of staff-
magazines, he went home in 1954 with the
first Australian Viscount and was later appointed
personal assistant to Viscount Knollys, the present
chairman (then deputy-chairman). He published
two books on flying, some boys’ adventure-
stories, and had a play produced—an experience
which, because of the mangling it received, still
haunts him. Meanwhile his wife, Barbara, left
dramatic school and went into repertory at
Salisbury, where she was popular and successful
but, having io choose between acting, apart
from her husband, and home life she plumped
unhesitatingly for the latter.
. Never one to burke decisions, Gunn felt he’d
like his two young boys to “grow up as Aus-
tralians.” So he gave up his security, sold his
house and car and formed his own firm of
public-relations consultants. He arrives in Aus-
tralia early this month, and hopes to settle
down; he says he’s "had enough of launching
out in all directions.” With his experience, and
the goodwill of Vickers, Rolls-Royce and Fiat,
he should do well.
• •
“P.A.L.”: I thought John Hopkins
had a 99-years lease of this world’s stage,
but now he is dead with but 12 years to
run. In the old days he was known as a
theatrical agent in many newspaper-
offices in Australia and N.Z., and his
active dark eyes fairly danced with the
joy of living. He was with Fullers, man-
aged his own shows, brought famous
singers to N.Z., and when war was on
organised concert-parties for the soldiers.
He was an expert in massive fireworks-
displays, his last job being at the Christ-
church centennial celebrations, and he
sometimes contributed to charities under
the startling name “Judas Iscariot,
Junior.” Latterly he ran the Pickwick
Bookshop in Auckland, where he had a
vast collection of secondhand books. He
had, too, a fine collection of grand-
children and great-grandchildren. He
loved them, he loved the stage, he loved
“the whole damned human race.”
• •
Premier Bolte, who recommended and
got the M.B.E. for Pastor Doug. Nicholls
in the recent Birthday Honors—the first
award in Australia for an aborigine—has
invited aborigines into the Vic. Liberal
and Country Party, and says he would
like to see one win a seat. Victoria gives
aborigines full citizenship rights.
• •
Francis Joseph Kitts, M.P. for Welling-
ton Central, became Mayor of the New
Zealand city at the end of last year. He’s
in his late 40’s, lanky (6ft. 4in.), is a very
fluent speaker, and is particularly well-
WELLINGTON’S MAYOR
versed in local-body and civil-service
procedure. A member of the Dominion
Executive of the N.Z. Labor Party, he is
Wellington’s first Labor Mayor. A mem-
ber, too, of the Wellington Harbor and
Hospital Boards, and a keen follower of
Rugby.
• •
Army Headquarters in Melbourne
doesn’t know how his first two quite pro-
nounceable names, Charles Hector, got
souvenired, but all his contemporaries call
Brigadier Finlay, the new G.O.C. of
Central (S.A.) Command, Basil, and
suspect it originated in his Sydney school-
days. Finlay, a dapper, handsome fellow
who looks every inch a professional
soldier, is currently our Army rep. in
London and will not become a Major-
General until he takes over next Septem-
ber—Treasury policy. He has held a
variety of Army jobs, and seen a number
of places since he graduated from
Duntroon in 1931—Light Horse, A.DC.
to the G.-G., with the 14th/20th Hussars
in India ; then adjutant of Sixth Div. Cav.,
Brigade Major 21st Infantry Brigade,
G. 5.0.2 Seventh Div., C.O. 2/24th Bn.,
and Intelligence postings, including com-
mand of “Z” special unit. In short, in
War 11, active service in the Western
Desert, Syria, New Guinea, Philippines
and Borneo; two “mentions.” His
travels didn’t stop there. He went to
Canada on exchange, came back to be
Director of Military Intelligence, then
commanded the Australian component of
B. (Japan and Korea) 1953-54.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 75, J. S. Hutcheon, Q.C.,
C. Queensland cricket-administrator. With
Roger Hartigan, he was responsible for getting
Brisbane its Test-matches. In 1910-11 he
captained Queensland at cricket, and also
represented Australia against Canada in
lacrosse. ,
At Masterton (N.Z.), at 85, Harry Hall, who
faced the footlights in many theatres in Aus-
tralia and N.Z. Was with J. C. Williamson
shows, Montgomery’s Entertainers, and later
had a show of his own.
At Concord Repatriation Hospital, Sydney,
at 65, Sergeant Eric Beattie, founder of the
Changi concert-party.
In Brisbane, at 79, Rev. David Galloway,
former Queensland Moderator of the
Presbyterian Church. He retired in 1947.
In Sydney, Dr. E. F. Coyle, leading
M acqua rie-street eye-specialist.
At Mt. Tambourine (Q.), at 80, Rev. George
Leney Hunt, one of Queensland’s oldest Church
of England ministers.
At sea, at 61, on his first voyage as master
of the inter-State liner Westralia, Captain A.
Lunt. Previously master of the freighter
Woomera, he had been with Huddart, Parker
for many years.
Tn London, at 73, Tom Clarke, one of
Britain’s best-known journalists. In the 1920’s
he was for three years assistant-editor of
Melbourne “Herald.”
In Perth, at 100, George Parrant, who
arrived in Fremantle from England in 1871 in
one of the last sailing-ships to make the voyage.
At Johannesburg, A. M. Williams, who had
been news-editor and later illustrations-editor
on the “Rand Daily Mail” for 32 years. His
first entry on the Inky Way was in Palmerston
North (N.Z.),' where he was born. He was on
the “Standard” there and left for S. Africa in
1925.
At Albury (N.S.W.),.at 63, T. S. Ware, Albury
manager of Dalgety and Co. Won M.C. in World
War I.


ABORIGINALITIES
T’VE never seen so many magpies fallen
victims to road-accidents as there
have been lately between Sydney and
Canberra —the road is just about paved
with them. What’s the explanation? I
thought they might be inexperienced out-
back birds migrated from the drought
inland, but the experts say they don’t
migrate. It’s also
said that the older
magpies mark-out a
feeding - territory
and drive young
birds and intruders
away from it; so
could it be that over-
population has
forced all the
younger generation
—as in the slums —
to the streets? —“S.”
* *
“Ex-Northerner”:
The gods that govern
the weather seem to
have staged a series
of rainfall-contests
between North
Queensland’s Innis-
fail and Tully. Once
Innisfail (formerly
Geraldton) had mat-
ters more-or-less its
own way in regard
to wetness, but it
usually has had to
take second place
since Tully came
into existence. Dur-
ing May the two
centres broke about
even —Innisfail 11.91
inches, Tully 11.44
—but over the five
months of this year
Tully scored by 121
inches to 114 inches.
In the same period
last year the tallies
were 94 inches to 74
inches in Tully’s
favor. Some of that
May moisture would have been welcome
a bit farther south, for while both Innisfail
and Tully were scoring over 11 inches
Sydney could do no better than 14
points.
* * * *
“John M.”: One effect of the dry spell
has been the mass-migration of thousands
of ibis to N.S.W. country towns. They
have become quite tame, and treat
humans with complete disregard as they
wander streets, parks and household
lawns hunting insects.
“Mac Hoots”: I saw an ambitious
peewee at Pymble (N.S.W.) having a
fight with itself as reflected in the shining
hub-cap of a car. For once, it lost.
* * * *
“Doric”: If our Blue Mountains were
in Switzerland, they would have a
different layout. The railway, instead of
traversing the heights, would travel along
the Jamieson Valley, with a possible
tunnel under Narrow Neck to Megalong.
The towns in the valley would be con-
“ Look, abominable humans!”
nected to the peaks by funicular with
probably a luxurious hotel at the top of
Mount Solitary, The villages would be
quaint and picturesque, not drab like our
mountain settlements, and gamblers
would be catered for by casinos in the
larger towns —and everything, even the
streets, would be spotlessly clean, with
not even a newspaper lying in the gutter.
The Swiss would never have taken
sewerage-pipes over the Bridal Veil!
* * » *
“J.R.”: Monsteria deliciosas fantastic
rate of growth isn’t its only peculiarity.
The 6in. or more coblike fruit is an
oddity in itself. Green when it’s ripe, it
ripens only about 2in. a day. The trick
is to rub the peel, which falls away from
the ripened section in segments. But a
warning to the hungry one who attempts
a further bite: lips and tongue will be
instantly filled with stinging, spinelike
hairs, too minute to be detected by the
naked eye.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: My neighbor, a keen
fisherman, was in his workshop finishing
some tradesmanlike floats, using as the
basic material some branches he had
pruned off what he called his “Polly-
ttee,” which in his garden bears showy
purple flowers. He said he often used
wood from this tree
for small articles,
the wood being cork-
light and tough and
taking lacquer
nicely. Right
enough, too the
tree happens to be
Paulonia imperialis ,
whose timber is the
base of all good
Japanese lacquer-
ware. Its flower (not
the chrysanthemum,
as many think) is the
emblem of the Royal
House of Nippon.
* *
“Salmon Gums”:]
In disposing of cer-
tain hocus - pocus
about snakebite (B.
12/6/’57) “B e 11-
field” subscribes to
another false belief
—that of the efficacy
of Condy’s crystals
(permanganate of
potash). That used
to be one of the
main ingredients of
snakebite - treatment,
coming after the
knife and the liga-
ture, and it must
have been applied in
hundreds of cases
without the slightest
chance of doing any
good. When a
poisonous species of
snake strikes and
the venom enters the
blood, there are two
ways in which it can kill, depend-
ing on the type of poison that the
snake favors. It it’s a nerve-poison
it strikes 'at the nerve-centres such
as the brain or spinal-cord ; if it contains
haemotoxins it coagulates the blood and
restricts circulation ; and in either case
the object of treatment is to remove as
much poison as possible by bleeding, at
the puncture-spot, and to localise the
effect by restricting the poison to the
one locality, until it becomes diluted or
an antivenine can be injected. Perman-
ganate of potash isn’t an antivenine, and
obviously it does nothing to localise the
poison, so it’s quite ineffective. But I’ll


NEW FLUE


bet there are hundreds of homes where
it’s kept specially for snakebite.
* * * *
"Tabba”: Many North Queensland
shopkeepers are reluctant to stock nut-
chocolate because of the amount re-
turned by customers with worms in it.
One buyer on finding worms put the
block in the refrigerator with the idea
of returning it next day. When taken
from the fridge the worms were stiff and
apparently lifeless but after a few minutes
were boring lustily into a chocolate
breakfast.
* * *
“Agricola”: A Bundaberg (Q.) nursery-
man has bred an apple-tree that bears
well in subtropical conditions. Apple-
growing is confined mostly to the cold
parts of Australia. This new variety holds
promise for areas where winters are mild
and summers hot. The original stocks
were imported from South Africa and
were grafted to stocks brought from Vic-
toria. One of the first grafts is now sft.
high and has borne fruit for the past
two years. The trees bear in their second
or third year and the fruit tastes like a
Rome Beauty. About 3000 bud-stocks
will be propagated next year.
* * * *
“Retired Bagman”: In pre-war
Katherine (N.T.) the consumption of
metho per head must have been a world’s
record. A lot probably found its way
to the blacks, but a surprising number of
whites took to it because it was cheap
or because straight plonk or rum didn’t
have enough kick. In a community of
fewer than 100 whites one of the stores
was selling 44gals. of metho every two
weeks. It was stored in an unventilated
Bft.-by-10ft. iron hut and, after a session
of bottling-off, the manager, accountant,
salesman and message-boy would stagger
out sick, drunk from the fumes. They
still can’t preheat a pressure-lantern
without shuddering. I know, because I
was them.
* * * *
“Roger Mike”: A month or so
back the Southern Cross (W.A.)
penny-pile paragraphed here was
liquidated—literally, because the coins,
stuck together with beer, had to
be soaked apart. The 2041 b. of coinage
panned out to 9516 pennies and
£ll 14s. 6d. in silver, including £5 put in
by one party of revellers for the privilege
of knocking it down. The problem of
what now to do with surplus coppers has
been solved by placing them on a ledge
above a slide-bar where they are available
for anybody who finds himself short of an
odd penny to pay for that one for the
bitumen.
* * * *
“Q. Ree” (Fiji): Fijians say if there
Is a heavy crop of mango and breadfruit
it will be a bad year for huiSicanes ; if
a light crop, then a good year. In 1952
an exceptionally heavy crop of fruit was
followed by an unusually bad hurricane
in February. This year the crops were
light and no hurricane warnings were
needed.
* * * *
“Fairf”: It’s impossible to preserve
every historical building, but I can’t help
mourning the demolition of Orchardleigh
House, gone to make room for a huge
bronze-foundry at Yennora, 17 miles
south of Sydney. Built in 1840 by Henry
Whitaker, Parramatta’s first chemist
(and therefore one of the first in the
colony), the homestead was once stuck-
up by bushrangers—who arrived singing
opera! Whitaker was absent, having
caught gold-fever and joined in the
Turon rush ; but his wife and children
were in the house, and the woman pro-
vided the food demanded by the bush-
rangers, who slept in the loft over the
“The next time you go on a kangaroo-shooting trip, SHOOT 'em!"
stables. The highbrow outlaws left a note
of thanks and a promise not to return
when they left in the morning. The
adjacent Orchardleigh-street is now the
only reminder of the old house and its
history.
• * * *
“Bass”: Hold it, “J. 8.” (B. 22/5/’57)!
Wagin and Narrogin are good aboriginal
names, as are a lot of place-names
in W.A. The origin of neither has been
definitely established, but a creek at
Armadale, about 20 miles south of Perth
and the best part of 100 miles north-west*
of the present Narrogin, was called
Narrogin, and the local pub takes its
name from that. Suggest that either an-
other, similarly-named water-place existed
where Narrogin now stands, or the name
was transferred by some old colonis
with nostalgic memories of the countr
near Perth. Wagin has been suggested a®
the native for “place of the emu,” sincr
among the bird’s numerous names ar
“wadje” and “wait.” “In” is a commoi
native suffix, and “wagin” is probably th
nearest officialdom could get to the nativ
name.
•» * * *
“C.F.”: Variations in width at th,
cuffs of a man’s pants (B. 22/5/’57) havi
always intrigued me. In Cooktown (Q.J
in the Palmer days the boys wore belt
bottoms ; and for many years after thf
resident tailor would make nothing
it was bell-bottoms, or send down ti
Anthony Horderns’ for a made-tc
measure suit. My uncle, who struck t
rich on the Palmer when he was in hi s
early twenties, abandoned his bell-bottont
only when he went into khaki in thr
1914-18 war.. For many years we had i 1
photograph of him taken on his
chestnut horse: white, open-necked shirt!
white, bell-bottomed moleskin pants
satin cummerbund (he told us it was re(!
but I never quite believed him) and <
broad-brimmed hat bashed round liki
a hat-fur-felt-airwomen-for-the-use of. Hi 1
also wore high-heeled elastic-sided boot*
a size too small, but no spurs—he handled
Gold Dust with the reins.
* * * *
“Jacana”: Four-year-old niece called
me just in time to see a snake slide alon 5
the tankstand and disappear into
fastnesses of the honeysuckle vine. “Fid
trickled across there,” she said, indicating
a bare section of the planking. A go<#


Jescription of Joe’s progress, but from
the size of him I’d say there was a
considerable flow.
JOCK McLAREN
VERY good, that the McLaren tale
(vide “Red Page,” B. 12/6/’57)
has at last been told and told well.
Present writer shared a Brisbane
Sotel-room with Jock for a few months
just after the Jap war, and escorted him
from Greenslopes Hospital to the
Governor Sir John Lavarack investiture,
where, as Captain Robert Kerr McLaren,
~he received a brace of M.C.s.
c Jock was a bit wobbly on his pins after
ja lorigish stretch in Greenslopes, but
•stood like a ramrod while the aide rattled
through the citation. General S’John said
something sotto voce which to this listener
sounded suspiciously like “You should
have got a V.C., Jock.” After the guber-
natorial handshake Jock about-turned so
briskly that the decorations fell from his
tunic to the grass. The Governor took a
smart step forward, waved Jock to remain
standing, stooped and picked up the
gongs and pinned ’em in place again.
Citations are pretty bare and call for
much reading-between-the-lines. Even so,
Jock’s was 90 moving that at the end of
the investiture Premier Ned Hanlon
jumped to his feet, grabbed Jock’s hand
and said, “If ever there's any way 1 can
help you, Jock, come and see me!” And
by the look on Ned's face he meant it.
Among his friends Jock was always
turbulent company. In among the Japs
he was unpredictable and lethal. Have
heard him variously described as “mur-
derous to a fault” and as having “waged
a ferocious one-man war” against the
Japanese. Asked Jock one day in our
hotel-room why, when there were 70,000
Jap pesos on his head, none of his
guerrillas sold him out. Jock dipped into
a lowboy drawer and whipped out a
Japanese sword. He clenched it fiercely
and made a sweep in the air that narrowly
missed my throat.
“Some of ’em tried,” he said. “But
pretty soon they gave up tryin’! ”
I could well imagine it.
“This was the sword of security,” he
concluded grimly.
At the time of this swordplay Jock
I( was suffering a return of malaria and
.insisted that sleeping on the floor was the
t( way to quick recovery. The only minis-
.jtration he asked of me was to leave two
s bottles of beer beside him. The day he
i( could drink them, he assured me, he’d be
'.better.
a Bit by bit, during the months I was
fwith him in the safety of Brisbane, a good
(deal of Jock's story came out. You’d
; iget a snippet in an unguarded moment of
McLaren conversation. He never talked
at any length about himself, and clam-
shelled in the company of newsmen.
;l ßut even then he was casting about for
i,a writer. He did tell me all he remem-
-,,bered about removing his own appendix,
{,and showed me his operation—as neat a
jjnick as you ever saw.
X “ 'Twas tha’ or dee!” he said.
Explaining this remarkable surgery,
Jock admitted that during one backwater
in his career he had become a vet. at
Edinburgh University.
Jock spoke" with a swift, clipped Scots
accent, and when quoting irate speeches
addressed to him by various Jap camp-
commandants endowed them with the
burr of Burns. Between the wars Jock
owned a vessel and traded round the
Islands. Got to know them like the palm
of his hand. Some time after his second
capture by the Nips he was informed that
some prisoners were to be shipped to
Tokyo, some to Sandakan. Jock said
“Dinna send me to Sandakan!” so
vehemently that the Jap commandant
came in hook, line and sinker and sent
him there.
The latrines there, Jock explained, were
on stilts, with a tidal washaway. With
his companions in this escape he visited
the latrines a couple of minutes later each
afternoon until, without arousing Jap
suspicions, they went there at high tide
and dusk, dropped through the holes and
swam round a point to appropriate the
leper canoe mentioned in the Red Page
review.
“’Twas no' a clean break!” was how
Jock described the sewer-swim.
His burning ambition immediately after
the war was to buy one of the small
vessels being disposed of cheaply at the
time, preferably of the Grimsby-trawler
type, and go trading again. He was still
in uniform, and 1 prevailed on Air Force
friends on courier runs to transport Jock
to various Australian and Island ports
where such ships were advertised for sale.
Jock was always furious in failure.
“Bluidy Carpenters beat me tae it!” and
“Bur-rns Phiip ootbid me! 1 say Bur-rns
Philp ootbid me!”
My wife, new-arrived in Brisbane and
new to the McLaren speech, asked, “Why
do you want a boat so badly?”
JOCK
“I want to sell it!” was how Jock’s
reply sounded to her.
“Sell it?” she said. “Are you going
to all this trouble and travelling just to
sell it?”
“I want to sell it to Borneo!” Jock
said. “And it’s got to be a damn’ good
seller!”
The lass sailed off still in some con-
fusion.
Jock was long and spare in build. Sharp
features, face stretched tightly on a narrow'
skull. Fair hair parted on the left side
and brushed smoothly back. In repose
a permanent schoolboy smirk belied by
a fey look in the pale-blue eyes. A First
War bullet-groove along the right cheek-
bone. Jock always moved with a stride
of Olympic rating, rarely loafed or
lounged about. He’d gerrymandered his
age — on in the first war, and back in the
second. He’d tallied-up in both
schemozzles nine years’ active service.
In 1946 he told me he was 49.
Jock’s veterinary knowledge again
helped in recent years, which he spent
with the Department of Animal Hus-
bandry in New Guinea, where successful
experiments with livestock are being
carried out. Moving around those parts in
’53 and ’54 I narrowly missed Jock a
dozen times. Neither of us had very fixed
addresses. But a number of typical
McLaren letters found their way to me.
“McLaren on the air,” was their opening
gambit, often followed by: “Here’s a
thing that happened yesterday at Baiyer
River and it might interest your news-
paper.” If not Baiyer it would be Mt.
Hagen, Wau, Lae or some other of Jock's
ports-of-call. Last year just such a letter
reached me care of The Bulletin and
was published as a par. on the “Abo.”
page. It must have been one of the last
letters Jock wrote, for the week it was
published he was killed at Wau.
YBSUL.
SHADOWS ON THE HEART
I marked the yellow road
Of a spirit-haunted land
Her blackened patterns lost
In the language of the sand.
Simple hieroglyphs have stood
Guarding the inner place
Where the hot sun-silence broods
On the relics of a race.
Shadow-shapes as thin as bone
Pencil the parchment way ;
Their strange-shaped message will
Be written on the day,
And in mirage's eyes
Dark-fringed by silken grass,
Gleaming . . . not blue nor green . . .
Like opalescent glass.
Where white moon-rain will fall,
Pointing its ghosting spears
To the ancient ochre cliffs’
Eroded tracings of the years,
Heavy-handed time has smudged
The music from the lyre;
None will be left to tell
The signal from the fire.
Beyond the point of tears
Sad dusky ones depart,
Leaving silence of a dream,
Shadows on the Heart.
VICTORIA.
TREVENA KURBAN.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
CHASE AND ESPERANCE
[From Dave Frith, in Perth, W.A.]
WHEN American millionaire
Allen T. Chase flew into
Perth last November to sign the
agreement between the
Westralian Government and
Esperance Plains (Australia)
Pty., Ltd., he was hailed as
something of a saviour, bring-
ing a flood of dollars to the
State, opening-up undeveloped
country and solving
unemployment.
Now Westralians are begin-
ning to have Their doubts.
Doubts about dollars ; doubts
about the rate of development;
doubts about the scheme gener-
ally. Their fears have hardly
been put to rest by recent press
publicity concerning Territory
Rice, Ltd., another of Chase’s
Australian interests.
There is growing feeling that
Hawke’s Labor Government
lacked the business acumen to
negotiate with an American
millionaire, that Chase has
been given an open go, that
Australians have been sold out
by the W.A. Government.
To understand Hawke’s
eagerness to attract Chasers
interest to Esperance you have
to realise that W.A. is land-
settlement-scheme conscious. It
would still rush into any
scheme rather than attempt to
organise independent settle-
ment, despite its ill-fated post-
World War 1 Group Settlement
Scheme (10,000 acres of G.S.S.
dairyfarms were recently —and
eagerly—sold to become pine-
plantations, and many G,S.S.
farmers are now foresters).
The stage was set for a big-
scale settiement-scheme after
the Government - appointed
Esperance Downs Development
Advisory Committee presented
its report in 1955. It argued
that rapid large-scale develop-
ment was necessary. It
gloomily assumed that
individual farmers with capital
would not be interested in
Esperance. And therefore it
airily dismissed individual
Australian-farmer settlement.
Lack of Interest?
The committee’s assumption
of lack of interest was wrong.
It ignored the historical fact
that the W.A. wheatbelt was
settled mainly by eastern States
farmers. It also ignored the
present pressure on the land in
eastern States. Many farmers
there would have welcomed
Government - sponsored pub-
licity that Esperance could be
developed to two-to-three sheep
an acre for less than £2O an
acre. *
The real reason, of course,
for the apparent lack of Aus-
tralian interest in Esperance
until now was that very few
people knew much about it. It
was not until 1949 that the
Department of Agriculture
established a research-station in
the area, and it wasn’t until
several years later that there
was any scientific evidence of
the Esperance farming poten-
tial. And this the State
Government did not make
public until the Advisory Com-
mitteq’s report, presented in
1955, but not printed until 1956
—just in time for Chase.
“Dream Agreement”
There were other reasons for
Hawke’s grab at the Chase
syndicate deal. He had to
pull-off something to outdo the
previous Liberal-Country-party
Government’s big Kwinana-
refinery deal. Then, possibly, in
his ignorance he felt a trifle
guilty about the 127 years of
neglect shown to Esperance.
And, of course, there was the
lure of the magic word
“dollars.” Came along Chase,
and before the people of W.A.
knew any details they found
they had presented an
American moneymaker with
what the Opposition-leader
called a “dream agreement.”
Four-bob an Acre!
When the details finally
filtered through to the people
they found they had agreed
to let Chase’s company have
1,500,000 acres of land at the
giveaway price of 4s. an acre,
plus survey fees—total amount
about 4s. 6d. an acre. (Why
didn’t the Government call for
tenders?) Also they had agreed
to buy back from Chase the
poorest land: land with poison
or water difficulties.
The Government had agreed
to build developmental and
access roads and a new ali-
weather road from Albany to
Esperance, and to provide sites,
water-supplies and rail and road
facilities for Chase fertiliser-
and killing-works. And thus
Chase has been given public-
works priority over many long-
suffering areas.
In return the company had
agreed to select, in 50,000-acre
parcels, its 1,500,000 acres
before December 31, 1961, and
within 10 years of a permit to
occupy each parcel, to sub-
divide it into holdings and to
develop them so that at least
half the parcel was available
for share, lease or sale.
It also agreed to settle, if
possible, at least half the farms
with Australians, with
Americans and Europeans as
second choices.
What About the Dollars?
What about the flood of
dollars Mr. Hawke and his
Government expected? The
agreement does not insist on
any payment in dollars. In fact
it never gets nearer to the
subject than the grandiose offer
of “a Banking Institution spon-
sored by the State for the loug-
ment and maintenance of
accounts and the transfer of
moneys from the United States
of America.”
Right from the start the
public has been fed a flow of
details stressing the rapid rate
of development, as if speed was
the characteristic feature of this
Chase enterprise and as
justification for this American
takeover. Yet the rate required
under the agreement is less than
that which thousands of
farmers in W.A. consider
normal and actually achieve in
much more heavily timbered
country.
“Know-how”
It has been assumed by many
that American “know-how”
and organisation would boost
production. The fact, is, how-
ever, that Australian agri-
cultural scientists and
Westralian ones in*particular —
are world-famed for their con-
tributions to the development
of Esperance-type land. United
States experts come to Aus-
tralia to learn about pastures
and plant-nutrition—not to
teach.
How are the Americans
going to make their profit?
Apparently just by selling the
land, at higher prices, to
Americans. It seems that many
Australian farmers can develop
land themselves more cheaply,
or they can buy fully-developed
farms closer to Perth —the
Kojonup area, for example—
also cheaper.
It is regrettable that Aus
tralians were never given i
look-in on the ground
floor. The scheme coulc
have been financed with Aus
tralian capital, the land settlec
with Australian farmers anc
brought into productiot
quicker that way.
The Bonus Boom
A USTRALIAN sharemarkets
already favoring front
line stocks to a marked extenl
(evident during the whole ol
the first half of 1957), have
carried their fondness to a
striking degree since Colonia
Sugar announced its bonus
issue of one-for-three about a
fortnight ago.
Over the past few days the
prices for shares in A.C.I.
8.H.P., Henry Jones, Davi<
Gelatine and other leaders
have leapt in price, sometimes
with minor reaction later.
Last Thursday, also, British
Tobacco announced its bonus-
issue of three-for-20, together
with a par-issue of one-for-four,
With both C.S.R. and
British Tobacco back in the
bonus-issue class there has been
a tendency to jubilate—“happy
days are here again,” and that
sort of thing. But while, in
each case, the distributions (as
well as other pointers) suggest
that both companies are over
some of their post-war diffi-
culties, in neither instance can
prospects be regarded in the
same light a§ in the pre-war
years.
British Tobacco, however,
has intimated that the div. on
the increased capital will
remain at 10 p.c. C.S.R. sug-
gests an 8 p.c. distribution
(compared with 10 p.c.) for the
current year.
The susceptible investor
should particularly guard
against being seduced by the
glamor and stimulation of the
present bonus season, and
would be wise to look a little
further ahead.
Bonus Shares (and Profits)
TN estimating the value of
shares still enjoying the
stimulation of “vigorous selec-
tion” on Australian Stock
Exchanges one must at all times
keep in mind the profitability
factor.
The sharemarket at present
seems to be more bonus-issue-
minded than profit-conscious
(or dividend-conscious). Cer-
tainly directors of companies
should have grounds as well as
motive in making bonus-issues
But, as always, the sharemarket


C 'Vj
inr
wrn
Your Business
“die” with you?
What assurance have you that the business you have
built throughout a lifetime will continue to function
without dislocation and to the advantage of your
beneficiaries after your death?
Your appointment of Union Trustee as Executor,
Trustee, Manager or Attorney would ensure sound
administration of your affairs—impartially and per-
manently— -at moderate cost—and safeguard the
future of your Estate.
Write or ’phone for an appointment to discuss our
service, and obtain a copy of the explanatory
booklet, “Important Facts Concerning Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMIT!!
(Incorporated in Victoria) Sitablbked 1851
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman .7. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams;
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell. K.R.E. (Vice-Chairman i ;
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.;
Bertram J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N.
Mathieson. Manager: A. B. Tile maun. Assistant Manager:
A. G. W. Dent. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
District Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. FleJcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman!;
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Bren an; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Speneeley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Cbarleville.
UT2S
is tending to get carried away
by bonus-issue dreams without
giving full regard to yield in
eventual dividends.
In every case, then, the in-
vestor who is counting on a
company making a bonus-issue
when he accepts an immediate
yield of under 4 p.c. should
give consideration to the
probable post-bonus dividend
and, where that is indicated to
be a lower rate, the time that
will be involved in lifting the
dividend to a level that will
make holding worth while.
If the period threatens to be
lengthy, the investor should
consider whether he can afford
to wait that long, because our
Australian sharemarket has
traditionally been one of downs
as well as ups, and a low
immediate yield, in a less
vigorous and more selective
market than that which is now
prevailing, might mean a dis-
concerting marking-down of
the share for which he has
held such hopes.
In short, the profit side of
the business needs to be taken
into full consideration, bonus-
issue or no bonus-issue.
Accounts should be studied in
the usual analytical way. Profits
will have to be earned by the
business concerned. They
won’t be provided by the fairies
(good or bad) of the share-
market.
B.H.P. Share Prices
YyHEN the rights to the new
issue of B.H.P. shares
earlier this year were going at
20s. many people thought they
would be cheaper before appli-
cations closed. Instead they
became dearer. Now, with the
issue fully-paid, they seem to
be getting dearer and dearer
and dearer.
It is a long time indeed —
a couple of new issues back at
least—since B.H.P. shares
fetched last week’s top price of
525.
At 525. the immediate return
from the 10 p.c. div. is
£3 16s. 6d. per cent.
And what are the prospects
of an increase in the dividend?
The B.H.P. board is un-
likely to feel anxious to increase
the dividend. The present rate
of 10 p.c. is quite respectable,
though by no means lucrative,
and not at all an adequate
reward to shareholders who
have held the scrip for, say,
the past 20 years. But various
factors outside the company’s
control enter into the inade-
quacy of present-day dividend-
rates, and B.H.P. can’t be
blamed for the depreciation in
money that has occurred over
the past 20 years, or for the
Governmental attitude towards
prices, profits and taxation in
the same period.
At the same time there is
little doubt that B.H.P. will
show a very large profit for
the year to May 31 ; and that
profit should be published very
soon. The output of basic
steel over the past 12 months
was much higher than in any
previous year, and it will be
higher still during the current
term. Some of B.H.P.’s pro-
cessing subsidiaries and asso-
ciates have not been so busy,
but a ready market has been
found for all B.H.P. basic iron
and steel, including a profitable
export-market for any surplus.
However large B.H.P.’s profit
for the past year turns out to
be, the co. would be able to
find ready use for it quite
apart from dividends to share-
holders. It. is spending £lOO
million on expansion during a
five-year period, and this is to
be financed partly out of
borrowings, partly out of new
capital and partly out of
ploughed-back profits and
other retentions.
This means that there will be
a good deal of idle capital in
uncompleted projects at any
given time during the five-year
period. It also means that a
considerable proportion of
profits earned from such plants
as are in operation will not be
available for distribution whilst
the demand for capital for
development is urgent.
In the meantime, chairman
Colin York Syme has said,
“reasonable dividends” to
shareholders are the company’s
aim.
A 10 p.c. dividend may be
considered reasonable, or it
may not be. But what is
certain is that shareholders
will be asked to contribute
more capital as time goes on,
probably at par (as last issue).
A 10 p.c. distribution on the
new capital would be attractive.
If the £ 100-million pro-
gramme is financed by equal
proportions of borrowed
money, share-capital and
ploughed-back profits, then new
share-issues over the quin-
quennium would amount to a
one-for-one issue on the present
capital. There is no certainty
that such a high proportion
would be financed out of
capital. But it is a figure to
work to and from in estimat-
ing future benefits.
It is unlikely that the capital
proportion will be more than
a third.
8.H.P., incidentally, has not
made a bonus-issue since 1940.
And then it was financed out
of share-premiums charged on
previous cash-issues.
“Exciting” Oil
[From h. Owen]
/i SYDNEY evening paper
forecasts “an exciting oil-
market” for July, and, possibly,
for August.
Of the prospects dealt with,
Wapet’s Rough Range No. 10
location takes, not unnaturally,
first place. This well is designed
to go not much, if any, deeper
than the Birdrong horizon ; it
is sited only 700 ft. north-east
of the “discovery” bore—•
Rough Range No. I—which
it a high probability of
striking the same limited “pool”


Futlh In the
Future
Now when Australia is enjoying a period of
prosperous expansion, I think we should be getting
our sights correct on the subject of Transport.
Where do we stand in relation to the transport
needs of today, much less of the larger tomorrow?
The railways, of various gauge, incur heavy
losses and are struggling with programmes of
replacement and track-improvement. Most of the
expenditure on roads is in the maintenance of an
already inadequate system, with construction
outpaced by the demands of increasing traffic in
the nearer zones and by the growth of settlement
in country areas.
Coastal shipping services are limited—and
every year brings more of our 11,300 miles of
continental coastline within the ambit of trade;
as we see, for example, in the Northern need for
outlets in the export of minerals.
Outside the larger airports on the seaboard
few of our landing fields are built to take the heavier
and faster types of modern aircraft.
Frankly, the provision we are making for
transport does not nearly measure up to the splendid
progress of Australia in other directions.
In the year just closing the value of our rural
output will have exceeded £ 1100-million, and
exports under all headings will have reached a
record £lOOO-million. The Federal Government’s
review of the economy, tabled recently in the
House of Representatives, has forecast a period of
continuing progress and prosperity.
One effect of this pleasing condition is that
still heavier demands are going to be placed upon
every means of civil and commercial movement.
An efficient system of transport in all its branches
is a vital and absolute necessity.
As for the capital cost —and that is the crux
of it —I think we can address ourselves a simple
business question. Australia’s development, after
all, is a huge business.
Where transport is involved, the question is
not “Can we afford to do it?” but “Can we afford
not to do it?”
of oil penetrated in November,
1953.
If this object succeeds, the
company does not stand to
gain real benefit, as the total
amount of additional oil pro-
duced is unlikely to cover the
cost of drilling the second well.
Two wells should, of course,
have a higher production-rate
than one. Any increase, how-
ever, may prove dangerous, as
the ‘pool” has already given
indications of turning to brine
when production is pepped-up.
It will be remembered that
Rough Range No. 6 bore was
dry, although it was drilled
only 860 ft. s.-e. of No. 1, and
well within the limits of what
would have been the oil zone
had the brine-oil interface
behaved as it is expected to do
in text-books. If No. 10, also,
is dry—as well it may be—the
fact merely will add further
confirmation to my contention
that Rough Range No. 1 struck
a fossil oil-seepage.
The reiteration of that fact
is becoming monotonous, but
it would have been a wonderful
money-saver had it been acted
upon when I first put it forward
in December, 1953.
The next “exciting” oil-pro-
spect on the list is Timor. Here
it is almost certain as anything
can be in the oil game that any
well, located with reasonable
care, will produce measurable
oil, just as former bores have
done. The striking of commer-
cial production is quite another
story; the problem requires
both geological and chemical
research which cannot be com-
pleted in “six to eight”
months, much less weeks.
No. 3 prospect is Oodnadatta
in South Australia, which is
being drilled by Santos. This
company, very wisely, imported
an eminent U.S. oil-geologist to
visit its permit-areas and to
form an opinion of their value.
His public utterances, over the
air, were generalities, as is most
of the abbreviated report issued
by the company, which quotes
him as stating: “I am quite
convinced that petroleum
exists in commercial amounts
in Australia... .The petroleum
prospects of the Artesian Basin
look to be as good now as did
those of the Sahara a year ago.”
That statement would have
applied equally well to the
Warbreccan area (Q.), where
the search for oil was
abandoned a couple of years
ago.
No. 4 prospect is Arcadia
(Q.), where a flank well is
being drilled in the hope of
striking oil down-dip from a
bore, sunk in 1935, which pro-
duced a heavy flow of what
was described as “wet” gas.
Unfortunately, the gas in ques-
tion contained 80 per cent, of
carbon-dioxide.
No N.S.W. oil-prospects are
mentioned in the evening-
paper article, presumably as
further drilling activity is likely
to be resumed only at one
location Dural whose
chances (or lack of them) were
considered long ago in these
columns (B. 23 /11 / ’55).
It is difficult to be enthusiastic
as to the hopes of any of the
locations mentioned—particu-
larly in view of the techniques
used in siting them. I strongly
suspect that the demand for
stock has been fostered by
rather nebulous rumors of
London buying and the scarcity
of mobile gambling-counters.
On one point I am com-
pletely in agreement with the
U.S. expert imported by Santos
when he says: “I am quite
convinced that petroleum exists
in commercial amounts in Aus-
tralia.” What worries me is the
technique which is, in general,
being employed in the search.
Timken’s Choose Victoria
ANOTHER American indus-
trial giant, Timken Roller
Bearing Co., of Canton, Ohio,
is beginning operations in Vic-
toria. Premier Bolte has
announced that the big
engineering-products company
will establish a £li-million
factory at Ballarat (where
industry is needed) immediately.
The company, which has
been dickering with Bolte since
his visit to the U.S. to talk
about Victoria, will occupy its
plants by the end of the year,
will have trained key Aus-
tralians at Ohio and will
employ 150 skilled craftsmen to
begin and about double that
number as their assistants.
Timken’s expect to treble
their output in five years,
although they will first produce
only tapered roller-bearings.
Last month William F.
Umstattd, Timken’s president,
hired an aircraft to take to
Ohio the Promote Victoria
Mission, and told them he con-
sidered Victoria the most
attractive State in Australia for
investment, and had been
impressed by Bolte as a
champion of free enterprise.
Bolte, in making his
announcement about Timken’s,
added, with some pardonable
complacency, that he expected
to announce more investments
of overseas capital in Victoria
soon.
Still, in wooing capital for
free-enterprise States, he had
only South Australia as a
competitor.




SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATER
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Jorda in Brisbane
Enrique Jorda’s musicianship
is of an aristocratic order. His
aloofness on the platform and
his polished gestures are
reflected in performances that
are elegant in every way, though
not lacking in power when
it is needed.
He began his first Brisbane
concert with Mendelssohn’s
“Scotch” Symphony, dedicated
to Queen Victoria, but so far
lacking the mustiness that such
a distinction might involve.
The first movement is the most
difficult to play because it
meanders along as though to
show it belonged to an age
of plenty of time. Jorda was
not expansive in handling it,
keeping a tight rein. The rest
of the work sweetness and
light, touching grandeur in the
final pages. All this suited the
orchestra’s resources, and the
music often had an infectious
sparkle, especially in the
scherzo, which is the only
section with any markedly
Scottish flavor..
It was a far cry to Debussy’s
“Iberia,” music more authenti-
cally Spanish in sound than
Mendelssohn's Symphony is
Scottish. Debussy apparently
never went across the Franco-
Spanish border, but his
imagination translated the
literary impressions of a very
acute mind into music which
has a Spanish flavor even if
it is not the Spain of a con-
ducted tour. Jorda plays music
like this with the nostalgic zeal
of an exile, and he made the
most of its furtive tunefulness.
The frequent quiet passages
where there is more shade than
light ran the risk of being not
properly heard in the big hall,
yet the risk came off, and the
work communicated itself with
an intimacy that makes much
real Spanish music look gaudy.
Tschaikowsky’s “Romeo and
Juliet” Overture was at its best
in the love-scenes, and the
noisy musical description of the
brawl between the Montagues
and the Capulets was played
down very firmly. The result
was remarkable for the final
impression it left of the tender-
ness of Shakspeare’s story,
which is probably what Tschai-
kowsky intended.
Thomas L. Thomas was
soloist in three French arias.
His is not an operatic voice,
but its sureness and clarity
suited one of Mephistopheles'
songs from Berlioz’s “Damna-
tion of Faust,” more oratorio
than opera in style. He
finished with a curious
"Dash back-stage and put ten-bob on Day Dream."
drinking-song from Ambriose
Thomas’s opera “Hamlet.” It
gave us a Hamlet singing about
the pleasures of wine just
before the play scene, and
Thomas sang it so much in
character as to suggest some
opposition to the more ortho-
dox Hamlet of Paul Rogers and
company only a few streets
away.
D. J. M.
♦+♦ *** ♦♦♦
Candlelight Music
The National Gallery Society
of N. S. Wales rightly holds
that chamber-music, as the
most intimate form of the art,
should be heard in the most
intimate setting. And what
setting could be more intimate,
or more beautiful, than in a
court of the N. S. Wales
National Art Gallery, flanked
with fine paintings and lit with
the soft glow of candles. That
form of lighting was, incident-
ally, particularly apt for the
two quartets presented—the
composers, Mozart and
Schubert, both devoted per-
formers of chamber-music,
knew only that illumination
for their own playing.
The ensemble was the Hoff-
man String Quartet (Andrew
Hoffman, first violin ; Alwyn
Elliott, second violin; Peter
Ashley, viola; John Painter,
’cello). They drew rich lyri-
cism from the slow opening
movement of Mozart’s B Flat
Quartet, K. 159, and the middle
section allegro contained no
little 18th-century elegance.
The rondo of the tailpiece was
not so happily integrated.
The profound phases of the
first half of Schubert’s “Death
and the Maiden” Quartet
indicated that this ensemble is
one of considerable promise—
there was genuine affection in
the playing, with the dark
strain well maintained; the
lighter contents of the scherzo
and the presto were given clean
attack and good distribution
of tonal weight.
The quartet was joined by
• • . • J, , f J
S n ,r,r e T Uck for
Vaughan Williams s song-
e > P n Edge, in
which South Australian tenor
Max Worthley was soloist. In
these six songs, settings for
A. E. Housman Shropshire Lad
poems, the composer s work
falls short of the poet’s. The
melodic line is far from strong
and tends to monotony. Only in
“Bredon Hill” is there a lift
above mediocrity. The singer
did well considering the artistic
odds against him, and his
enunciation was admirably
clear.
*X* +X+ ❖
Leontyne Price
Leontyne Price closed her
Melbourne account well
on the credit side of the ledger.
Considering the superb quality
of her singing and the universal
range of her programmes she
could have been described as
providing the most comprehen-
sive banquet of music that has
ever been available at the
Town Hall, and it was surpris-
ing that audiences weren’t
larger but during her
season most of Melbourne was
either inside Her Majesty’s
Theatre gazing at Dame
Margot Fonteyn or outside
imagining what it would be
like to be inside,
v v ***
«c l • r • »
Sabrina Fair
doesn’t seem so very
long ago that when the sons of
British aristocracy fell in love
with the butler’s daughter
everything could be justified by
* e y°“ng ‘ady turning out to
be the kidnapped daughter of
Lord Turpentine. With Ameri-
can dollar-aristocracy, of
course, the young lady’s lineage
doesn’t matter a hoot provided
s he turns out to be an heiress,
it wouldn’t matter if she were
the dustman’s daughter so
long as she came good with
the dahlars before the final
curtain.
That, more-or-less, is the


Divorce Notice
IN THK SUPREME COURT OB’ NEW
SOUTH WAUES.— In Divorce.
TO HAROLD SEYMOUR MeFADDEN
late of 29 Trafalgar Parade Concord. —
TAKE NOTICE that ISABELLE
PATRICIA MeFADDEN has filed petition
for divorce No. 2650 of 1956 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 2nd day of September 1957' and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from DUNCAN BARRON & CO.,
Solicitors, 81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
—j. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
NOTHING EQUALS
Warmray's Amazing Efficiency
warmray
TRIPLE-PURPOSE, SLOW-COMBUSTION,
AIR-CONDITIONING HOME HEATER
m
*
Model No. 3
Super De Luxe
Large Capacity
Over 8,000
cn. ft.
Special large
firebox for long
burning without
attention.
Extra large
hotplate for
cooking.
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray"
ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING
Model No. 2A
■Jf- Heats over 6.000
cu. ft.
Modern artistic
cream porcelain
enamel on solid cast
iron.
•fc No dirty fireplaces
to clean.
Full view of blazing
fire through open
or closed front.
•fr Lights in seconds
warms entire room
in minutes.
No smoke or dust to
soil furnishings.
★ Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
Voura PF eciationofVtermr a);
u »u successful «*
- >.
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL—REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
£
mmmmm
m
■
WARMRAY
HEATING TUBES
The secret of Warmrav’s Amazing: Efficiency Is
the Patented Heating Tubes (illustrated above),
which are built into the firebox. The air in the
room passes through these tubes continuously,
thus maintaining an even warmth in every part
of the room.
JL BURNS ALL SOLID FUELS!
WOOD IS CLEANEST.
Sold by Scores, Builders’ Suppliers and
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
BUY NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors,
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: “Warmray.” BL *217.
If unobtainable locally, phone, write or call
for illustrated Brochure and name of nearest
agents.
essence of this modern Ameri-
can comedy by Samuel Taylor
(current at the Independent,
North Sydney), although it is
played with any number of
delightful and entertaining
variations. The young lady is
a chauffeur’s daughter who
spends five years or so in Paris
working for U.N.O. and
returns to the Long Island
home of her father’s employers,
who have two sons, one who
knows he wants to marry her
and the other who wants to
but doesn’t know it.
Most of the complications
are overcome when the
chauffeur reveals that he had
been buying a few shares in
the 1920’s until, his conscience
unable to stand the thought of
dollars breeding dollars like
rats in the dark, he sold-out in
early 1929. When, towards
the end of 1932, he realised
his employer was having some
fi nanc i a 1 difficulties, he
mastered his conscience and
bought-in heavily on shares in
his boss’s business. The
million dollars or more he has
stashed away are enough to
make his daughter acceptable
in the best American society.
The Independent players,
directed by Fifi Banvard, give
the piece a brisk and pleasant
performance, with most of the
evening’s work going to Coralie
Neville, as Sabrina, and Joe
McCormick, as the house-
hold’s elder son whose restless
discontent manifests itself in
making millions and trying to
manipulate other people’s lives.
Miss Neville, as one remembers
particularly from her perform-
ance in “Shadow and Sub-
stance” a while back, plays
these girlish roles with con-
siderable charm, and Mc-
Cormick contrives a quick,
blunt force that is equally suit-
able to his part in the business.
As the father of the house,
Ronald Dunkerly seemed a
shade too self-conscious for
his comedy, but Ail e e n
Britton, as his wife, tossed off
her role with easy, practised
gesture, and Betty Dyson
brought a very attractive' style
to her part as a sophisticated
editress and business-woman.
❖ ♦>
“Hamlet”
Hugh Hunt’s production of
'‘Hamlet” for the Elizabethan
Theatre, with Paul Rogers as
Hamlet, is now in Brisbane, and
this writer, while not inclined
to any of your romantic, pale
young Hamlets, thought that a
Hamlet as resolute on revenge
as Rogers’s makes irrelevant the
second visitation of the Ghost
to remind him of his sworn
purpose, as well as robbing
several key soliloquies of their
real import. Not for a moment
would this determined Hamlet
genuinely contemplate the
desirability of “To be or not to
be.”
Paul Rogers, rightly
acknowledged to be superb in
character roles—roles which
tend to have one predominant
facet, such as his Shylock, Fal-
statf, Foppington—has reduced
Hamlet to something approach-
ing single-mindedness in his
effort to present the role. Doing
this has robbed Hamlet of his
development as a person within
the play ; from the bewildered
student home from Wittenburg,
housed in an unfriendly,
corrupt Court; visited by the
doubtful ghost of his father ;
learning about friendship the
hard way by the defection of
former college associates ; dis-
trusting feminine love when
be suspects that it, too, may
become a tool of political
intrigue ; hinting at his possible
greatness as a king in the
wonderful oration on the
futility of war (significantly
cut from this Brisbane perform-
ance) ; until, at his death, he
has justified the tributes of
Horatio and Fortinbras. By
Act V the present Hamlet has
made no appreciable emotional
advance from Act I. Possibly
aware that he is not “heroic,”
Paul Rogers has chosen the
“intellectual” alternative.
Shakspeare seems to have
lequired both, if the text is not
to be distorted.
In London I saw only one
Hamlet—with Richard Burton
—and because it at least grew in
stature from act to act, I pre-
ferred it. Comparing Rogers
with Redgrave, Wolfit, Gielgud
and others, there is a total
difference of method between
him and them. They ground
their performances in their own
personalities, grafting the
emotional aspects of the script
on to their own, whereas one
feels that Mr. Rogers (and Alec
Guiness, perhaps) start from
scratch and create each
character conceptually. Which
is to be preferred? Both types
may command special dramatic


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR SIDNEY KING late of
Herne Bay in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that AUDREY
MAUREEN KING has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4278 of 1956 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
6th September 1957 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
L. W. WILLIAMS, Solicitor, of 79-81
Campsie Street, Campsie, or his Agents,
JONES, JONES & JONES, Solicitors, of
183 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGIIAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO KARL ERIK BLAUBERG late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that ANNA
BLAUBERG has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1919 of 1957 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court's discretion under Section 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 13th September 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from E. G. SAYEGH, Solicitor,
133 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO BARRINGTON CLIVE LUKE late
of Stanmore.—TAKE NOTICE that
MARIE JUNE LUKE has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1834 of 1957 on
the ground of repeated assaults and
cruel beatings during one year pre-
viously If you wish to defend" you may-
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 13th day of September
1957 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from E. G. SAYEGH,
Solicitor, 138 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
fields, but it seems to me that
the present Hamlet is straying
from his proper pasture.
What else on the Hugh Hunt
production? Horatio too old —
a Holbein burgomaster, not a
contemporary of Hamlet. Zoe
Caldwell and Maree Tomasetti
better than the counterparts I
saw at the Old Vic (Claire
Bloom and Fay Compton), and
even if Miss Caldwell’s accent
once or twice suggested a
hoyden, not a Court lady, her
performance invited the only
real tears of the evening.
Lloyd Berrell’s Claudius was
in far too modern a style ; his
close, contemporary haircut
suggesting not a king striding
to his throne but a wrestler
making for his ropey corner.
Laertes, inelegant in his first
scenes, should at least in his
final ones have shown some
results of his court sojourn in
France, and not have belied the
favorable reports received in
his absence.
Alistair Roberts’s choice of
Diirer-like costumes was a
happy one, the brightest touch
in a production that was cool
and unexciting. Few members
of the Court registered much
interest or lived out the sugges-
tion that it was given to much
late carousing.
Val Vallis.
Films
“Heaven Knows, Mr.
Allison”
Not long before he died,
Charles Shaw of The Bulletin
sold Hollywood the film-rights
of Heaven Knows, Mr. Allison,
his best-selling novel about a
U.S. marine and an Irish-
Canadian nun marooned on a
Jap-held island during World
War 11.
Made by 20th Century Fox
and directed by John Huston-
one of the best in the business
—the film has reached Sydney
and will be reviewed here when
it opens shortly at the Regent.
Meanwhile it can be noted
that Charlie would certainly
have approved of the film, and
of the Fox people’s gesture in
putting on a special preview for
“Do you have the recipe for this one?”
his mates on The Bulletin —
which, of course, means every-
one in the place. He would
certainly have liked the way
in which Deborah Kerr and
Robert Mitchum get hold of
his principal characters, and
director Huston’s feeling for
the spirit of the book in general.
His pleasure, of course,
would probably have been con-
cealed by the characteristic
mixture of modesty and
embarrassment with which he
met any praise of his work.
Most likely, with hands in
pockets and a quizzical tilt to
his head, he would have
grinned and said, “ ’Struth! Did
I write that?”
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ***
“The Light Across the
Street”
The driver of a road petrol-
tanker who suffers a serious
head-injury in an accident is
warned by his doctor that any
emotional crisis might lead to
fatal results and advises that
his impending marriage should
be an unemotional affair for
some time.
He and his bride start a cafe
on a lonely French highway,
and love and understanding
carry them over the early stages
of their marriage. Then a
handsome young man takes
over the service-station on the
other side of the road and the
wife begins to look his way.
The anger of the jealous
husband tilts his damaged
brain and his reaching for his
rifle sparks-off a cracking
climax.
The film is realistically
treated in the best tradition of
the Gallic cinema, and Brigitte
Bardot and Raymond Pelegrin
handle, the difficult material
capably.
At Sydney Paris.
*i*
“The Wrong Man”
Alfred Hitchcock here for-
sakes his usual method of
building-up a suspense-thriller
to a climax of hair-raising inten-
sity, and selects a case from
the files of the New York
Police Department, which lent
technical assistance in the film’s
making.
The suspense is still there,
developed unspectacularly but
with convincing logic. The
film is, in effect, a study of
fear, the eventual victim being
not the man wrongly arrested
but his wife, who suffers a
mental breakdown under the
strain.
Henry Fonda plucks a
double-bass in a nightclub
orchestra, and, like thousands
of others on a moderate salary
and with a family, he barely
manages to keep a jump ahead
of the official receiver. When
he gets a thumping bill for his
wife’s dental treatment and
goes to a life-assurance office
to raise a loan on his wife's
policy he is identified as the
bandit who held-up the place
some time before.
He is arrested and others
testify against him for other
hold-ups, and an unusual con-
catenation of events make the
case black against him. It
is not until the real bandit
starts operating again in the
same locality and is caught
that his resemblance to the man
still on trial saves the latter
from a long sentence.
Deft domestic touches en-
hance the telling of a very
human story, and Henry
Fonda portrays the numbly-
bewildered suspect with a skill
that is matched by that of Vera
Miles as the wife. Anthony
Quayle, as the defending
lawyer, is less impressive. At
Sydney Mayfair.
❖. * ❖
“The Burning Hills”
Tab Hunter, virile and with
some feeling for the character
he portrays, takes to the tall
timber when his brother's
murderer sends a band of
gunmen after him. The
attractive scenery includes a
black-eyed Mexican beauty
who lends the pursued aid and
comfort, and there are a couple
of slap-up fights of the boots-
an’-all variety.
At Sydney Plaza.


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
THB HON.
T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
M.L.G., chairman;
SIR EDWARD R. KNOX.
VICB-OHAIHMAN ;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D R LYSAGHT;
JOHN W DUNLOP;
JOHN DARLING;
A G ARMYTAGE,
Managing dibbgtob.
W. S. MATTHEWS,
manages.
Faithful, Efficient and Understanding Service
THE ever-increasing public acceptance of the services
ottered by Perpetual Trustee Company Limited merits
your consideration of the many advantages of appointing
the Company as your Executor and Trustee —alone or
jointly with a relative or friend.
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited is specially con-
stituted and organised to handle —efficiently and promptly
- —the many complicated duties involved in Estate
administration. It brings to the task all the
benefits of group judgment of men of wide experience
—and the services of specialists in many different
fields.
The Company’s service to beneficiaries is traditionally
personal, friendly and understanding.
£ Perpetual Trustee Company Limited invites you to
discuss this important matter in confidence and without
obligation. Why not ring Sydney, B 0377, or write today,
and make an appointment ? If you prefer, ask that a copy
of the Company’s helpful
booklet be sent to you.
ERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others, Administrator, etc.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY OFFICES AT ORANGE & TAMWORTH
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE eOMPA N V
(CANBERRA) LTD.
INDUSTRY HOUSE)
NATIONAL CIRCUIT
CANBERRA
LOCAL DIRECTORS IN ADDI-
TION TO THOSE DIRECTORS
MENTIONED AT THE LEFT:
WARREN D. McDonald,
C.8.E., YICB-CHAIRMAN
S. G. McFARLANE, c.m.g.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Mutual Provident Society
"COR the average person no other
form of investment offers such a
degree of capital-protection as the life-
policy. Recognition of this fact, plus the
growth of population, inflation (which
has increased the need for greater life-
cover) and the development of group-
assurance and superannuation schemes,
has contributed to the great expansion of
assurance business within the last decade.
Biggest of the life-offices is the A.M.P.
Society, whose post-war growth can be
seen in these figures:
Ordinary— 1946. 1951. 1956.
Policies issued 84,622 94,277 94,175
Assuring .. £48,207,529 £92,573,309 £141,817,260
Ay. per policy £570 £982 £1506
Industrial — 1946. 1951. 1956.
Policies .. 129,874 77,400 55,090
Assuring .. £10,224,001 £8,819,342 £10,914,520
Av. per policy.. £79 £ll4 £l9B
Altogether there are 2,726,663 policies in
force in the ordinary or industdal depart-
ments, assuring a total (including
£119,557,631 bonuses) of £1,281,288,783.
Last year (the society’s 108th) a
record amount of new business
(£52,731,780, up £9,236,102) was again
put on the books, almost 93 p.c. of it
in the ordinary branch:
Ordinary Department.
_ Total Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
Surplus sale assets . . .. . . 27,481
’53.31,829,068 11,870,230 8,629,369 231,965 16,597,504
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 20,328
Tax overprovided . . . . .. 1,672 793
*54.33,202,581 12,536,090 3,945,889242,683 . s „, Q
Exchange adjustment, £400,320 .. B,u ‘
Surplus sale assets . . .. . . 44,991
’65.38,854,548 18,396,283 4,509,342 225,370
Exchange adjustment, £255,049 .. -u,40»,0u4
Loss sale assets .. reduction 19,636
Tax or erprovided .. ~ 100,000
’66.43,064,593 14,686,733 4,820,127 163,999
23,339,809
Exchange adjustment, £53,925
This is the way business has moved
in the 1.D.:
Industrial Department.
S'otal Ex. Written Added
Dec., Income Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
Surplus sale assets ... .. .. 5,851
’63.6,933,058 3,072,346 1,428,491 18,630 2,413,591
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 4,248
Tax overprovided . . . . .. 408,488
’54.7,209,131 3,570,600 1,426,334 45,232 1 „ nafi fiol
Exchange adjustment, £80,274 .. j > ueo >
Surplus sale assets . . .. .. 9,022
’65.7,385,720 4,144,989 1,509,300 43,925 ( , fi o S ~0 9
Exchange adjustment, £49,114 ] ’ ’
Loss sale assets . . reduction 3,781
’66.7,631,330 4,793,771 1,615,368 30,203 f , 1R 9
Exchange adjustment, £9829 . . j ’ ’
Loss sale assets .. reduction 15,378
Total gatherings were £4,455,655 bigger
at £50,695,923. Premiums accounted for
£37,429,827 (up £2,873,246), and net
interest, dividends and rents (after
£910,792, up £199,187 income and land
taxes) for £13,266,096 (up £1,582,409).
When all claims and expenses had been
met, and after writing £194,202 off the
book-values of certain assets and pro-
viding for a loss of £15,378 on the sale of
others and currency-exchange adjustments
(£63,754), £24,506,590 of the term’s
income remained to be added to the life
funds (£337,200,831).
To arrive at the surplus (£9,918,254,
up £1,150,060) available for distribution
among policyholders the society’s lia-
bilities under policies in force were
actuarially valued at an unchanged 2 p.c.
net premium basis for assurances with
deferred participation, 2f p.c. for policies
with immediate participation and p.c.
for all other types of business:
1955. 1956.
Assurance funds .. £263,176,220* £286,516,029*
Actuarial liability .. 254,408,026* 276,597,775*
Surplus .. .. £8,768,194 £9,918,254
Bonus policyholders .. 7,496,295 8,553,017
Reserve contingencies.. 1,000,000 1,000,000
Reserve interim bonuses 60,000 70,000
Carried forward .. 211,899 295,237
* Includes £4,500,000 investments and contingencies
reserve.
An extra £1,056,722 (£8,553,017) was
allotted in reversionary bonuses and
£1,070,000 transferred to contingency and
interim-bonus reserves.
The pleasing lift in bonus-rates (up
10 p.c. to 15 p.c. above the previous year)
is a tribute to the efficiency of the man-
agement and the careful investment policy
followed. Last year operating expenses
fell from 14.92 p.c. to 14.41 p.c. of O.D.
premium income; in the 1.D., where
numerous small premium payments have
to be dealt with, the ratio went up 1.69
p.c. to 27.56 p.c. Further mechanisation
of accounting processes is being investi-
gated to reverse the trend. On total
assurance funds the net effective rate of
interest (after taxes) jumped 4s. sd. to
£4 2s. 6d.
An extra £26,161,006 became available
for investment. It went into mortgages
(£16,077,623), shares and debentures
(£3,765,200), freehold properties, etc.
(£3,296,899), loans (£1,509,910), Govern-
ment securities (£1,022,191) and debtors
(£489,183):
Government 1955. p.c. 1956. p.c.
securities! ..£146,304,776 45.5 £ 147,326,967 42.4
Mortgages . . 117,632,912 36.6 133,710,535 38.5
Loans on policies,
etc. .. 14,169,041 4.4 15,678,951 4.5
Shares and
debentures .. 30,273,220 9.4 34,038,420 9.8
Debtors, etc. J.. 5,164,772 1.6 5,653,955 1.6
Cash .. .. 4,069 1 4,564 1
C 2.5 132
Freeholds, etc... 7,919,678 J 11,216,082 J
Total assets.. £321,468,468 £347,629,474
Liabilities* .. 8,307,304 9.980,651
Net assets ..£313,161,164 £337,648,823
t Includes local and semi-Government securities,
t Mainly accrued interest and outstanding premiums.
* Other than liabilities under policies.
Within the last three years, the chairman
says, advances made for the purchase or
construction of homes have totalled
around £23-million, or 32.4 p:C. of the
increase in the society’s funds in that
period.
Swan Brewery Co., Ltd.
'"pHE jump in beer prices following the
steep increase in excise duty about
15 months ago succeeded, with other
financial measures, in halting the growth
in beer-consumption. As a whole, beer-
drinkers, who had successfully withstood
several severe financial jolts in earlier
years, found the added impost a bit too
much to swallow, and consumption of
beer dropped by a little under 7 p.c. dur-
ing the year ended March 31 last, to a
figure roughly equal to consumption
during the year to June 30, 1955.
The lower income from the sale or
manufacture of beer makes the absorption
of higher costs difficult, but handy profits
can still be won at the reduced level of
sales. There are, however, occasions


when some brewers appear to be self-
conscious about profits earned fairly and
legitimately in the course of their trade,
and this, unfortunately, can lead to un-
founded optimism or pessimism on the
part of shareholders and wild or in-
accurate statements by those interested in
altering drinking habits.
In West Australia, where the Mel-
bourne-controlled Swan Brewery Co.,
Ltd., has a virtual monopoly of the
brewery business —along with a large
string of hotels —reduced industrial
activity last year, and tight financial con-
ditions generally, emphasised the effects
of higher beer-prices and Swan returned
a lower, but satisfactory, profit.
Registered in 1887, Swan Brewery
reached its dominant position in W.A.
about 30 years ago by buying out its
major competitors, the Emu and Castle-
maine breweries. As well- as supplying the
Westralian market, the co. serves part of
the Northern Territory and enjoys a con-
siderable export trade.
The biggest div. from any brewery goes
to Federal and, to a lesser extent, State
Governments, excise taxes and duties of
various kinds paid by Swan last term
amounting to £7,561,859, or something
like 22 times the amount received by
shareholders. Nevertheless, shareholders
who have been members of the co. for
any length of time have little cause for
complaint, the moderate div. rates of the
last six years following a two-for-one
bonus-issue in 1951 and well over 50 years
of generous divs., spiced with occasional
capital gifts. The last cash issue was in
1954, 3,389,581 ss. ords. being offered to
shareholders at 65., one for every three
held. Paid capital, £3,473,208, includes
£50,000 in 6 p.c. prefs.
Accounts for the year ended on March
31 last show that, despite the “very con-
siderable disturbances caused by the
Little Budget,” the balance in the trading-
and rent-accounts (£2,046,606) was down
by only £lOB9, and while, as the chair-
man puts it, “the effect of reduced turn-
over on irreducible overheads has not
made overseas operations easy,” general
expenses for the term (£1,185,880) were
only £5040 above those in the previous
year. Net profit, after deducting the share
due to minority interests, was down
£12,625 at £326,669 and was claimed after
providing an extra £36,794 for deprecia-
tion (£201,078) and £31,709 less for
taxation (£327,863):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
t Dividends
Year Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar. Profit.* 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.t
31, £ £ p.c. £ £ £
Unexplained addition, £170,238 .. 2,489,313
1953.. 3000 8.3 = 214,651 56,096 2,495,409
Unexplained addition, £108,274 .. 2,603,683
1954.. 763 3000 8.3 = 214,651 74,112 2,677,795
Profit sale assets, £4072 .. .. 2,681,867
Share premiums, £84,740 .. .. 2,766,607
Tax overprovided, £13,192 .. .. 2,779,799
Unexplained addition, £150,999 .. 2,930,798
1955.. 298.541 3000 9.16 = 278,485 17,056 2,947,854
Profit sale assets, £3964 .. .. 2,951,818
Share premiums, £84,740 .. .. 3,036,558
Unexplained addition, £119,526 .. 3,156,084
1956.. 3000 10 = 342,320 3,150,058
Unexplained addition, £110,726 .. 3,260,784
Profit sale assets, £4756 .. .. 3,265,540
1957.-326,669 3000 10 = 342,321 3,246,888
* After eliminating outside interests.
t Excludes depreciation reserve, £1,213,606 at
31/3/’57.
For the second year in succession the
ord. div. (unchanged at 10 p.c.) requires
more than the earnings, and this fact,
well supported by the more-than-ample
tax-provision,, suggests that at least part
of the £659,763 added (without explana-
tion) to reserves over the last five y'ears
might rightly be regarded as profit. Last
term’s share of these unexplained addi-
tions was £110,726. The £326,669 of
profit covered the pref. div. and 9.4 p.c.
on ord. capital compared with 9.8, 9.7
and 11.2 p.c. in the three preceding years.
One new hotel was added to the chain
last year, heavy capital-expenditure on
the group’s fixed assets (up £558,166, part
revalued, 1951) adversely affecting
liquidity, current liabilities exceeding
current assets and investments by
£12,056:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital—■ 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
Ord. .. .. 2,999,510 3,423,208 3,423,208
Reserves . . . . 2,947,854 3,150,058 3,246,888
Depreciation res... 912,879 1,040,245 1,213,606
Outside interests.. 23,003 23,401 24,290
Overdraft .. .. 176,099
Creditors, etc. .. 2:50,7 8 0 2 2 0,99 3 2 4 4,144
Tax provision .. 375,729 471,608 478,607
Final divs. .. 172,660 172,660 172,660
£7,732,415 £8,552,173 £9,029,502
Freeholds .. .. 4,237,047 4,532,946 4,810,171
Plant, etc. .. 2,291,354 2,878,038 3,159,877
Stocks .. .. 570,026 662,780 678.191
Debtors .. .. 354,121 396,092 338,109
Cash, etc 279,867 81,417 43,154
£7,732,415 £8,552,173 £9,029,502
After getting along for a couple of years
without any obvious assistance from the
bank, the co. ran up a £176,099 overdraft
during the term, other funds coming
from a £57,983 fall in debtors and a
£38,263 reduction in holdings of cash, etc.
Share-capital is well supported by
reserves and additional outside money
would do no harm to the financial
structure.
Last year the co. announced its parti-
cipation in a plan to erect a brewery in
Darwin (where it has a valuable trade)
and subsequently it took over the whole
project. Carlton and United Breweries,
Ltd., was then invited to join in the
venture, but that co. has since announced
its intention to build and operate its own
unit in Darwin.
At 9s. 3d. Swan’s f.-p. ss. ords. would
return 5.4 p.c. from a 10 p.c. div. Net
tangible cover (consolidated accounts) is
9s. 9d.
Horwood, Bagshaw, Ltd.
AN agricultural and general engineer,
Horwood, Bagshaw, Ltd., is primarily
interested in the manufacture and distri-
bution of farm-implements and agricul-
tural machinery. The co. holds the South
Australian franchise for the well-known
Lister engine and shearing-equipment and
it manufactures, under licence, machines
designed by Cockshut Farm Equipment,
Ltd., of Canada, as well as its own range
of machines.
Formed as J. H. Horwood and Co.,
Ltd., in 1912, the co. carries on a business
established over a century ago, the present
title dating from 1924 when the business
of J. S. Bagshaw was purchased. Head-
office and manufacturing plant are in
South Australia, an Australia-wide
market being supplied through branches
in Victoria and New South Wales and
agents in other States.
Paid capital, £576,659, includes £76,659
in 6 p.c. prefs.—ord. capital reaching
£500,000 in 1955 when both ord. and pref.
shareholders were offered 36 new ords.
for every 100 shares held. The last
bonus-issue, a three-for-five affair, was
in 1951.
Earnings tend to vary with the for-
tunes of primary producers, and the co.
shared in the post-war prosperity brought
by high prices and good seasons. In the
1955-56 term, however, unseasonable
weather and credit-restrictions helped to
reduce demand for farm-equipment and,
with strong competition preventing in-
creased costs being passed-on, net earnings
dropped by 46 p.c., the div.-rate on an
enlarged capital being cut from 10 p.c.
to 8 p.c.
Similar conditions were apparent early
in the last term, but a small improvement
in demand in recent months enabled the
board to report a “slightly” higher turn-
over for the year completed on March
31 last, and an improvement in gross
profit, up £14,347 at £511,525. Selling
and administrative expenses increased at
a much faster rate, however, rising from
£337,179 to £387,924, so that even after
lower provisions for tax (down £15,000
at £40,000) and depreciation (down
£11,774 at £26,379), net profit for the term
was lighter by £9624 at £57,222:
( Dividends •,
A&BPref. Ord. Re- Re-
Mch. Profit. 6 p.c. 10 p.c. tained. serves.
31 £/ £* & SL
Unexplained addition, £1859 .. 204,648
1952 . . 85,448 4600 26,100 54,748 259,396
Unexplained reduction, £395 .. 259,001
1953 . . 136,023 4600 26,098 105,325 364,326
1954 .. 154,664 4600 32,640 117,424 481,750
Unexplained addition, £753 .. 482,503
1955 .. 146,953 4600 34,540 107,813 690,316
Reduction capital'reserve, £4216 .. 586,100
Tax underprovided, £53 .. .. 586,047
8 p.c.
Profit sale assets, £11,679 .. .. 597,726
1956 . . 66,846 4600 35,409 26,837 624,563
Profit sale assets, £14,540 .. .. 639,103
Tax overprovided, £3334 .. .. 642,437
Reduction capital reserve, £l9ll .. 640,526
1957 .. 57.222 4600 40,000 12,622 653,148
Ord. “div. was unchanged at 8 p.c., earn-
ings covering the pref. divs. and 10.5
p.c. on ord. capital compared with 12.4
p.c. in the preceding term and 41.2 p.c. on
the smaller capital employed in the ’55
term. Reserves gained a net £28,585,
£11,679 coming from profit on the sale
of fixed assets.
Additions to plant were largely respon-
sible for the £34,557 increase in the book-
value of fixed assets (revalued in 1946)
last term, and to assist in financing this
expenditure and the £60,169 increase in
stocks (up 83.6 p.c. in three years) the
co. arranged a loan of £50,000 secured by
mortgage and stretched the bank over-
draft by £24,760:
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref £76,659 £76,659 £76,659
Ord 345,409 500.000 500,000
Reserves .. .. 590,316 624,563 653,148
Mortgage .. .. 50,000
Overdraft .. .. 124,124 136,000 160,760
Creditors, etc. .. 344,624 204,921 147,627
Tax provision .. 55,000 40,000
Final div 23,024 22,300 27,300
£1,504,156 £1,619,443 £1,655,494
Freehold property,
plant, etc. .. 551,897 620,875 655,432
Stock .. .. 721,632 703,292 763,461
Debtors . . .. 216,497 282,115 226,673
Cash .. .. 14,130 13,161 9,928
£1,504,156 £1,619,443 £1,655,494
Debtors were £55,442 lower by the end
of the term (a finance-co. was appointed
to handle h.-p. transactions during the
year), but with the aid of the mortgage


INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, Vigilant super-
vision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring: Street, SYDNEY BIT 3445
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
5i%
every year
!s doubly valuable when it
Is Government-Guaranteed!
You want the highest possible return, coupled with
absolute security! The Sydney Water Board Loan
possesses both these qualities!
Your half-yearly interest will be paid regularly and
your principal repaid in full after 6, 10 or 20 years, as
the Loan is unconditionally guaranteed by the New
South Wales Government.
You can invest Trust funds as well as your savings.
The Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in New
South Wales, Queensland, Western Australia and
Tasmania.
The difference between the per cent, earned by Loan
investors and savings bank interest is well illustrated by
the accompanying table.
You cannot fail to make very substantial gains by
investing in this Loan at once!
1/07
/4 /0
GIVES YOU THESE HIGHER
RETURNS IN 6 YEARS!
If you wish, your half-yearly interest will be credited
to your bank account. You can invest quickly and
easily at—
Any office in Australia of
§ Commonwealth Trading Bank;
0 Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
§ Bank of New South Wales;
% The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Lsnutet
At the Sydney Water Board offices ;
or through a Stockbroker
IP
GUARANTEED BY THE
N.S.W. GOVERNMENT
Closes not later than next Saturday, July 6, 1957.
Underwritten Ralph W. King and Yuill
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange), 113
Pitt Street, Sydney; Grafton and Armidale.
the surplus of current assets
over current liabilities was in-
creased by £44,028 to £624,375.
There are signs that the
higher’level of demand noted
in the second half of last term
will be . maintained in the
current year, but weather con-
ditions could upset all calcula-
tions. Any improvement in
earnings is also dependent on
the degree of success with
which the co. can control the
growth of expenses.
The f.-p. £1 ords. have a net
tangible backing of 465. Id. and
last sold at 18s. 3d. to return
8.7 p.c. from an 8 p.c. div.
New Broken Hill
OECOND-LARGEST lead -
zinc producer on the
Broken Hill field, the London-
controlled New Broken Hill
Consolidated, Ltd., seems
certain to qualify for tax-
concessions granted to “over-
seas trade corporations” in the
last U.K. Budget. The con-
cessions will come at an oppor-
tune time for the co., which
only recently completed its
initial development programme
and now, having lifted ore-
production by 157 p.c. since
1952, is faced with a much
depressed lead and zinc market.
The youngest of the big
Barrier mines, New B.H. was
formed in 1936, but, owing to
interruptions caused by the
1939-45 war, the co. wasn’t
able to get into production
until 1945. Consolidated Zinc
Corporation, Ltd., holds
approximately a third of the
issued capital.
- During 1956 New Broken
Hill mined a record quantity of
ore, averaging 2516 tons a
day, as against 2252 tons in
the previous year. The extra
74,878 tons of ore pushed total
production 66,000 tons past the
target-figure and more than
offset a slight drop in the
grade:—
Ore Grade
Produced, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Ton*. p.c. Oz. p.c.
1954 .. 482,058 9.4 2.1 14.4
1955 .. 531,447 8.9 2.0 13.8
1956 .. 606,825 8.7 2.2 12.9
Ore milled increased by
75,516 tons to 605,560 tons, of
which the bulk (590,970 tons)
was treated in the co.’s
enlarged mill and only 14,590
tons in the Zinc Corp. mill.
Production of zinc concen-
trates (52.2 p.c.) was 4295 tons
higher at 137,990 tons; lead
concentrates, up 7235 tons at
65,489 tons, containing 47,949
tons lead (up 5182 tons) and
1,206,3080 z. (up 357,9580 z.)
silver. Quantities actually sold
were as follows:
• Zinc Con-
Lead, Silver, centrates,
Tons. Oz. Tons.
1954 .. 36,198 749,656 117,874
1955 .. 41,914 787,030 117,811
1956 .. 44,044 . 988,731 124,191
Portion of the lead concentrates
is sent to overseas smelters,
and although the tonnage of
lead realised was greater than
in the previous year, due to
the “incidence of shipping,” it
accounted for only 91 of
production, compared with
98 p.c. in 1955. Most of the
zinc concentrate is at present
shipped to the Consolidated
Zinc group’s smelter at Avon-
dale (U.K.), but earlier this
year another member of the
group, Sulphide Corporation
Pty., announced plans for the
ejection of a zinc-smelter near
Newcastle, to be completed
within six years
The average spot prices for
lead and zinc in 1956 were a
little higher, the following
table showing the average prices
(in £stg.) in each of the last
four years:
Year.
Dec. 31; Lead. Zinc.
1 958 .. £9O 3 0 £75 3 0
1954 .. 96 4 0 78 5 0
1955 .. 105 17 7 90 13 9
1956 .. 116 6 7 97 15 3
In the current year, however,
prices have fallen following un-
certainty as to the future stock-
piling policy of the U.S.
Government. Quotes in the
London metal market last
month were as low as £stg.9o
per ton lead and £stg.73 per
ton zinc.
Higher production and im-
proved prices lifted the “value
at mine of products” by
£784,713 to £5,934,982, despite
the larger share of revenue
claimed by ocean-freights. (All
figures are in sterling.) Mining
and milling costs represented
£4.688 a ton of ore mined,


Holders of Commonwealth
Bonds and
Semi-Government Loans
lh%
Are you satisfied with the 3\% to 4|% you are
at present receiving? You CAN receive l\°/o per
annum. £l,OOO invested at 7£% earns £375 in five
years. At 3it earns only £156. Why not have
the extra £219?
The Commercial Credit Corporation of Australia
Limited (established 29 years) will purchase your
Commonwealth Treasury Bonds at FULL FACE
VALUE provided the amount is lodged on fixed
deposit with the Corporation for five years at 7£%
per annum.
Semi-Government Loans and olher below-par stocks
may be acceptable. Write giving full particulars of
your holdings. t
PAID UP CAPITAL £200,000
ASSETS EXCEED £400,000
The Commercial Credit
Corporation of Australia Ltd.
Union Building, Bond St., Sydney.
(ESTABLISHED 1929.)
THE SECRETARY,
COMMERCIAL CREDIT CORP. OF AUST. LTD.,
Box 4044, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please forward particulars of your plan to purchase Com-
monwealth Bonds at full face value.
Name
(Mr., Mrs., Miss)
Address
DAYIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
C.l. Australian and Overseas Patents
and Trade Marks. —Advt.
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
against £4.484 in the previous
year, partly due to an increase
in production from square-set
stopes, but after charging an
extra £132,686 to mine develop-
ment (£420,508) and £59,075 to
royalties (£245,403), mine
trading balance was £117,447
higher at £2,322,404, pre-tax
profit rising by £140,680 to
£1,991,129, after allowing
£326,500 (down £3500) for
depreciation. Profit and income
taxes, however, took £1,116,600
(up £213,214), to leave net
earnings £72,534 lower at
£874,529:
Dec., Profit. Dividends.! Reserves.
£* p.c. £* £*
’52.. 558,020 80 = 180,695 3,772,141
Net unexp. ad’t’n, £15,259 3,787,400
From tax res., £36,987.. 3,824,387
’53.. 413,262 30 = 184,898 4,052,751
Net unexp. add’t’n, £3848 4,056,599
’54.. 597,274 60 = 384,454 4,269,419
Share-premiums, £199,476 4,468,895
Unexp. addition, £24,930 4,493,825
'65.. 947,063 90 = 611,405 4,829,483
Share premiums, £93,940 4,923,423
Unexp. additions, £18,544 4,941,967
’66.. 874,629 100 = 690,559 5,125,937
t Rate of div. is that declared, but
amount is shown after deducting English
tax. * Sterling.
The net earnings represented
72.8 p.c. on paid capital, com-
pared with 80.5, 53, 36.8 and
49.8 p.c. in the four preceding
years, a final div. of 3s. making
the total distribution worth (a
nominal) 100 p.c* U.K. tax,
deducted by the co., takes
Bs. 6d. in the £ of divs., so the
actual return to shareholders is
57.5 p.c., tax-paid to the extent
stated.
New ore reserves have been
brought into account at a
faster rate than ore has been
extracted, last term’s gain being
200,000 tons. Figures at
December 31 last were:
f Assay—-— N
Ore, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
Above No.
16 level 900,000 4.9 1.2 13.7
Below No.
16 1eve1'2,300,000 13.0 3.3 9.5
Total .. 3,200,000 10.7 2.7 10.7
Indicated reserves are about five
times the size of proved
reserves, so there is probably
about 30 years’ work ahead of
the mill at last term’s rate of
throughput and costs. No. 1
and No. 2 ore-pass systems
between levels 10 and 12, and
16 and 18 respectively, were
completed during the year, and
there was considerable develop-
ment of the lower levels of the
mine, while on the upper levels,
outlining of the block of
silicious zinc lodes of low lead
content was well advanced.
These zinc lodes were first
mentioned by the co. a few
years ago, but current prices
make recovery of the lower-
grade portions a doubtful pro-
position at the moment. Zinc
values range from 5 p.c. to 19
p.c. and lead from 2 p.c. to
5 p.c.
Expenditure on mine-
property capitalised last term
amounted to £297,841, addi-
tions to plant, machinery, etc.,
adding a net £185,058 to the
accounts: —:
1955. 1956.
Cash, Govt, bonds £2,449,095 £1,663,877
Debtors .. .. 124,497 1,156,212
Stocks .. .. 743,277 1,055,000
£3,316,869 £3,875,089
Less liabilities* 2,777,877 3,326,971
Net current assets £538,992 £548,118
Machinery, etc. {less
depreciation).. 1,877,606 1,692,548
Mine expenditure
account .. 4,291,369 4,589,210
Paid capital .. 1,176,244 1,199,729
Reserves .. 4,829,483 5,125,937
All amounts shown are sterling.
* Includes provision for taxation and
dividends.
As yet the co. has no invest-
ment portfolio to supplement
earnings, but is strong in
liquids, £1,663,877 remaining
after drawing on cash (down
£1,531,894) to help finance the
heavier stock and increased
book-debts.
At present current produc-
tion of both lead and zinc
appears to exceed world
demand, and the trend of
prices (and mining profits) is
largely dependent on the extent
of U.S. stockpiling. Share-
holders in New Broken Hill
were warned at the I*6l annual
meeting to be “prepared for the
consequences” of lower prices,
but the co. is, of course, capable
of trading quite profitably with
prices well below those ruling
last year, while the long-term
growth in demand for lead and
zinc promises well for future
years.
The co.’s f.-p. ss. (sterling)
shares fetch around 565. (Aus-
tralian) to return 6.4 p.c. from
a 100 p.c. div. at current rates
of exchange and after deduct-
ing U.K. tax.
Titanium Minerals, Ltd.
SHAREHOLDERS in
Titanium Minerals, Ltd.,
had to wait five years before
receiving their first div. from
the co., but the second div., 6d.
per ss. share, went out last
month only three months
after the maiden distribution.
Titanium Minerals is engaged
in beach-mining, mainly for
rutile, at Jerusalem Creek, near
Woodburn on the North Coast
of N.S.W.
Formed as Woodburn
Minerals, Ltd., the co. was
forced to suspend operations in
August, ’53, but following the
discovery of traces of tin-oxide
and the “leakage” of misleading
assay-values, bids for the ss.
shares jumped from Bs. to
325. 6d. The quantity of tin
was later found insufficient to
justify production. Production
of rutile was recommenced in
1956, Metal Traders, Ltd., of
London, providing finance and
taking up 120,000 ss. shares.
Rutile-production averaged
53 tons a week during the
quarter ended last March and
new plant going into opera-
tion this month is expected to
lift production by a further 75
tons per week.
Paid capital, £146,250, is all
in f.-p. ss. shares, the scrip
selling recently at 11s. 9d.


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2f
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
TT is an established fact that
murderers, aside from their
terrible predilection, are often
model citizens. Charles Peace,
as mild a gentleman as ever
graced a better-class suburb,
played the flute. And Frederick
Seddon was the ultimate in
ostentatious respectability
prosperous, hard - working
family-man, a Freemason, lay-
preacher and local politician.
Older folk (particularly those
who depend for their livelihood
upon salesmanship) still
remember Seddon, not only
for his notoriety, but also for
his complete, if diabolical,
subjection to his craft. An
insurance superintendent of
humble origin, Seddon let no
opportunity pass of extending
his connections, and he never
let a client slip if there was a
possibility of business.
Old Miss Barrow, a money-
conscious property-owner of
similar outlook to himself, was
not interested in his normal
wares. But she was lonely,
restlessly changing her apart-
ments and without near rela-
tives. So he considerately
offered her accommodation in
his own, too-large house, won
her confidence, “sold” her an
annuity, pocketed the con-
sideration-money after making
one payment and then put
arsenic in her food. He caused
her to be buried, in a common
grave, within a matter of hours,
and, thorough man-of-business
to the last, obtained a ten per
cent, commission from the
undertaker.
In his execution of the
(nearly) perfect crime, he lost
sight of nothing: he “played”
his victim carefully and gradu-
ally, manipulated her affairs
shrewdly to his own advantage,
devised her will so as to avert
suspicion and even caused
arsenical fly-papers to be hung
in her room so as to suggest
accidental self-dosing. Had he
been polite and sympathetic
instead of bumptious and
hostile to her cousins, who
called to take away her effects,
he might well have aroused no
suspicions.
“A Dead Secret”
This is the title of the play
(Piccadilly Theatre) Rodney
Ackland has written round the
Seddon case. Whether you
know the background or not,
it makes a most entertaining
evening. Frith Banbury, always
a meticulous and deep-sighted
producer, is fascinatingly true
to period (1911) but is so keen
to warm-up the first act as to
suggest the outrageous low
comedy of Old Tyme Music
Hall. Miss Lummus (the
victim) is blowsy v vulgar and
tipsy. The maid is not merely
dim-witted, but certifiable,
Dyson (the poisoner) is
absurdly overdrawn and his
family and staff grotesquely
caricatured,
So seems, but once the
play g ets mov ing these extrava-
gances submerge themselves
into a c i eV er development. The
“Try this for shape.”
author brings off a brilliant
dramatic coup in the last act by
introducing into the parlor the
eminent counsel who will accept
a brief only if he is convinced
that the defendant is innocent.
He cross - examines in the
manner of the prosecuting
counsel, scrutinises the evidence
and, not the least because of
Dyson’s bumptious self-con-
fidence, turns down the brief.
It is here that Dyson, after
offering to double the fee,
frantically gives the Masonic
handshake. (Seddon* after the
verdict, made a Masonic sign
to the judge and protested: “I
declare before the Great Archi-
tect of the Universe that I am
not guilty, my lord.”)
The acting is vociferous
rather than competent. Of the
supporting parts, only Harry
Bowers (as the unsuccessful
lodger who is summarily
turned-out to make way for the
new boarder) and Laidman
Browne (as counsel) have dis-
tinction ; both in their different
ways are superbly realistic.
Megs Jenkins, fine dramatic
actress that she is, seems to
have a little too much character
for the wife of Dyson, the
Great I Am. Paul Scofield,
fussily-dressed, pomaded and
affecting a monstrously flat
West Riding accent, offers
another painstaking character-
study as the poisoner and even
contrives to wring some sym-
pathy for him. The scene with
the counsel is very moving.
Reece Pemberton’s multiple
set is the more effective for
permitting nearly all the action
to take place in the most
rewarding parts of the stage
and is the only impracticability
likely to discourage Little
Theatres from attempting this
fascinating play.
Still More Crime
“King Richard III” was a
favorite of the Elizabethan and
Jacobean groundlings, no doubt
because of the black villainy of
the name part and the blood-
and-thunder of the action. It
is also, to scholars, a top-heavy
play in which the minor
characters are neglected.
Oddly enough, the Old Vic
performance reverses this judg-
ment. Douglas Seale’s produc-
tion, though a little over-
stretched, exemplifies a pro-
gression of intrigue, fell and
savage, with personalities full-
blooded in action, revolting in
character, quick to treachery
and always the minions of their
environment. Some of the
players, by not consciously
striving to impersonate, attain
peaks of inspiration: notably
Fay Compton’s demented
regality as Margaret, David
Dodimead’s nobility and
eloquence as Clarence,
Margaret Whiting’s unprin-
cipled and unfeeling Elizabeth
and Barbara Jefford’s deeply-
indoctrinated Anne.
But Robert Helpmann’s
Crookback is so fixed in
grimacing devilry and inflexible
in diction as to be completely
out of key. He acts, as it were,
by himself all the time, with
the result that the two
important psychological issues
—his being the victim of
environment and the more
fanatically vile because of his
. ugliness and disability—are
' never brought out.
Light Comedy
“Dear Delinquent” (West-*
minster Theatre) is a light
comedy with sympathetic
reverberations from a hundred
other light comedies set in the
chambers of a man-about-town
and with some rather hollow
echoes from Shaw’s
“Pygmalion.” A burglar,
female and young, is disturbed
and discovered by the young
man, who falls conventionally
in love with her. The girl’s
father (Laurence Hardy), an
Oirish Doolittle and proud to
be one of a long line of
burglars, is mortified at the
thought of her breaking away
from the family tradition.
There are jewels, a jealous well-
to-do fiancee, a wise mother, an
astute but tactful manservant
(well put-over by Patrick
Cargill), a stupid detective-
inspector, a Sir Oliver Surface
kind of uncle and, of course, a
final triumph for maidenly
wiles.
Anna Massey is quite good,
if unexceptional, in a role that
would have delighted Mrs. Pat
Campbell, but which needs an
actress of similar rare person-
ality to pull it off. David
Tomlinson’s wider experience
is seen to better advantage as
the harassed victim torn by so
many opposing forces.




Freedom is a Rainlow
By
STEPHEN
KELEN
"... he had no more jokes, or bread, for his people.”
WITHIN half-an-hour of
the family's departure
the Russians attacked
in full strength, but
were unable to break down the
barricades. Soon the tanks
turned and retreated. The Hay-
square resistance-centre scored
its first victory, counted its
dead, and attended to the many
wounded.
Three burnt-out armored-
cars and two tanks were the
Soviet losses.
The woman who had been
so determined not to lay down
her arms was among the dead,
End so were the Russians
trapped in an armored-car she
managed to set alight before
an enemy bullet killed, her.
There were many heroes at
Hay-square, but the truly great
ones died.
Lovas watched the young
girls on the barricade. He
didn’t ask their names, or any
other questions, but listened to
their chatting. Most of them
were university-students in
their first year—future doctors,
philosophers, teachers and geo-
logists. All of them belonged
to the new privileged class,
being of peasant- or worker-
origin.
A father could have killed
his daughter in a street-fight.
Blood no longer dictated
loyalty.
And these girls, who slept
and ate on the barricades,
froze in the chilly rain, sought
shelter within the Pullman-cars,
resting with guns in their
hands, were willing to sacrifice
their future for the freedom
they had never known.
What if the revolution were
defeated? Most of these girls
would never be able to return
to their studies, nor go home.
Here were the new caste of
untouchables in the making,
who could have become the
flower of a nation. The choice
was a decent human life, a
living death, or annihilation.
THE defenders of Hay-square
repulsed another Soviet
attack. From a blasted
armored-car jumped a Russian
major ; he took cover in the
ruins of a bumt-out barber-
shop. A group of freedom-
fighters moved at the crouch
towards the enemy’s refuge.
The officer emerged from the
battered doorway holding his
revolver to the head of a small
Hungarian girl.
The child, hardly more than
a baby, didn’t realise her
danger. She turned and smiled
at the big Russian, who pushed
her forward, away from the
rebels, into a side-street.
Some of the men wept with
rage. The Russian disappeared
in the dusk, taking his innocent
hostage with him.
“Must be a newchum,” a
would-be pursuer said.
There was a great deal of
difference between recently
arrived Soviet troops and the
“old hands.” Some Russian
soldiers had been stationed in
Hungary for years, and despite
a ban on fraternisation had
grown to like Hungarians. A
smile is a smile in any language,
and the Russian peasants con-
scripted in the army of ill-
concealed occupation saw the
same sort of troubles and
problems in this land as they
had experienced at home. Fear,
hunger, hatred of exploiters,
are great internationalists,
uniting people of different
racial and social backgrounds.
Besides, many of the “old
hands” came from the Ukraine
and White Russia, almost as
much subject - territories to
Moscow as was Hungary.
Soon it became evident to
the Russian leaders that a great
number of their units could not
be trusted. Lovas heard
rumors, which were in fact
true, that many a Soviet soldier
had joined the freedom-fighters
against their own countrymen.
Others deserted, and managed
to escape to Yugoslavia.
Fearing wholesale desertion
the Soviet quickly replaced the
old hands with new troops,
mostly Asians, young, inexperi-
enced and mortally afraid. The
Bolsheviks told them that they
were brought to Hungary to
quell a capitalist reactionary
uprising. Seeing the tremen-
dous crowds, some of these men
asked: “What kind of country
is this? Are these people all
counts, manufacturers, land-
lords ; all exploiters of the
masses?”
Some of them didn’t even
know that they were in
Hungary, but all dreaded the
“unknown enemy.” “Are
Hungarians really so blood-
thirsty and cruel?” those who
knew they were in Hungary
asked women and small
children in broken Russian, the
language which was not their
mother-tongue.
TV4A.NY of the newcomers
didn’t dare to leave the
protection of their tanks and
armored-cars. But others tried
to make friends with the
Hungarians for a very
obvious reason. In side-streets,
out of sight of their superiors,
they left their vehicles and
went from house to house beg-
ging bread. They were very
hungry.
Lovas, still enraged over the
abduction of the child, was on
his way home when he
stumbled into a group of Soviet
bread-searchers. He spotted the
armored-car bearing the Soviet
emblem in a side-street, and
jumped behind a gate, ready
to fight it out.
The Kirghiz crew (Lovas
thought, although he never had
the time to find out whether he
At the end of last week’s
instalment {second of five)
Gyula Lovas, who had
worked, perforce, under
the Soviet rule, had been
half-reluctantly, but irresis-
tibly, drawn into an active
part with his f ell ow-
Hungarians in their sudden
fierce fight for freedom
(last October-November).
Around Lovas and his
family and relations {Paula,
Maria, the children Judit,
Tamas and others) swirls
the violent action of this
tense, dramatic novel.
was right or not, that the bul
of these Asians were Kirghi
tribesmen) had left their vehicle
They were unarmed. A crowc
appeared and surrounded th
soldiers. Lovas hid his auto
matic under his coat, and
joined the others, mostly
women and children.
For shooting still dependec
on circumstances. In this phase
of the revolution the Russian
and Avos fought separately. In
several battles the freedom
fighters exterminated secret
policemen while a few hundrec
yards away strong Russian
units watched the massacre
without lifting their fingers to
help their Hungarian allies.
“Now just what do these
mechanised and ideologisec
tribesmen want?” Lovas askec
himself.
The answer came at that very
instant.
“ Keny er . ... ehes . .
kerem ,” one of the Asians, a
young, thin boy, who looked
more like a needy student than
a cruel conqueror, begged in
almost - unintelligible Hun -
garian, saying: “Bread . .
Hungry . . . Please”
Perhaps never in history was
there such a scene—the con-
querors begging bread from
the conquered.
The Hungarians looked on
in mild bewilderment.
“Have you no bread at ail?”
a worker asked in Hungarian.
The soldier shrugged. Obvi-
ously he had learned the three
Hungarian words and under-
stood no more. Now another
civilian repeated the question
in Russian.
“A little,” the Kirghiz
answered. “A very little.
This is all.” He took his bread,
to prove how little he had, out
of his pocket. A murmur of
Shocked amazement ran
through the crowd, as they
passed the chunk of “bread”
one to another.
you call this!”
people exclaimed, looking at the
brown, mudlike substance.
Someone broke a small piece
off, to taste it. Instantly he
spat it out.
“You poor devils,” he said.
“This is what they give you
for bread. Here, take some of
mine.” He broke a small piece
off his loaf, because that was
all he had and he was taking
it home to the family. Others
followed his example.
As the soldiers received these
small contributions, they ate
them.
A worker said: “I’ll give
you my full loaf, if you give
me your bread.”
The “Kirghiz student” readily
obliged.
“You’re mad, there’s a limit
to generosity, especially to the
enemy,” the worker’s friends
said.
“That’s what you think,” the
worker retorted. “I’m taking
this bread back to the factory
as soon as we get going again.
Meanwhile I’ll show it to
everyone I see. ‘Here,’ I’ll say,
‘this is the kind of bread the
Russians eat. That’s the
trouble, that’s why they’re after
our hides. They won’t have
peace till we eat the same bread
as they do.’ ” .
A few days later Lovas
passed through the same street.
Most of the buildings were in
ruins. He had to step over the
corpses of men, women and
children. Quite likely there
were some among the dead who
had shared their bread with
the hungry enemy, and it was
not impossible that the same
Kirghiz beggars had taken part
in file massacre.
T>UDAPEST was sealed-off
** from the country. The
big slaughter-yards closed, as
did all other food-production
centres. The general strike
spread throughout the city.
People queued-up in mile-long
breadlines, from dawn till
supplies ran-out.
Lovas stood in the line.
Paula offered to go, but he told
her to remain at home to look
after the children. Maria had
not returned home for two
days, and they feared she was
killed. Judit must have sensed
tiagedy ; she hardly spoke. Not
once did she ask why her
mother did not come home.
Her reticence was more fright-
ening than if she had asked
questions.
The baker was a fat, jovial
man who cracked a joke with
every loaf he handed out.
“You’ve got to eat yourself
fat, and in times like this it
takes a bit longer before you
become a scarecrow.”
The crowd was hungry,
anxious, but still able to smile.
Some of the older men and
women begged extra loaves. At
first he gave them to those who
had a “strong reason,” as he
put it. ' The supplies ran out
fast. A little old man who
arrived as the last loaf was
given away was told, “Sorry,
that’s all for today.”
The man, emaciated, leaning
heavily on his stick, burst into
tears. “What am I going to
take home to my wife and
grandchildren? In God’s
name take pity on me.”
The baker’s bright face
darkened.
“Look, I’m sorry,” he said.
“I haven’t even a loaf for
myself.”
“Here, take this.” A young,
pregnant woman handed a loaf
to the old man. “I managed
to talk him into giving me
two. Now we’ll both go
hungry.”
The baker smiled broadly.
“Your heart is as big as
your belly, young woman, and
a good thing, too,” he boomed.
A Russian armored-car
drove up. The people faced it
indifferently. They had come
to collect their daily bread;


they had no weapons and so
nothing to fear.
But as the vehicle passed
gunfire burst on the crowd. It
took them by complete sur-
prise. They ran in all direc-
tions, trampling one another
down, seeking cover.
A bullet hit the baker in the
chest. The big body toppled ;
the generous smile fell to the
ground ; he had no more jokes
or bread for his people.
THE Russians were clearly
trying to terrorise the
population. Blit they had to
fight a phantom army. On-
lookers at a moment’s notice
took up arms, attacked tanks
and armored-cars. Who was the
genuine civilian, who the
freedom-fighter? Not even the
Hungarians could tell.
The freedom-fighters fought
the Soviet might till the odds
were overwhelmingly against
them. Then they dispersed, and
the gates of the huge apart-
ment-houses and the doors of
thousands of flats opened,
offering refuge to the pursued.
As Soviet soldiers and their
Hungarian bloodhounds tried
to snatch a little respite from
fear gunfire a few blocks away
signalled that another group of
freedom-fighters had attacked.
Lovas couldn’t control his
curiosity. He wanted to see
what was happening in other
parts of Budapest. He often
wandered away from the Hay-
square barricade, and took
part in the deadly hide-and-
seek.
The city came to resemble
for him an ocean of Magyar
humanity in which the salty
and the sweet had forgotten
their differences ; all one water
now, flooding the embank-
ments of slavery, drowning the
islands of oppression.
The Russians found them-
selves virtually trapped in the
city they were supposed to be
occupying. They sought safety
by concentrating their armed
might at various points, often
blocking one another’s move-
ments. Russian vehicles
crashed into each other.
By now the freedom-fighters
also had tanks and armored-
cars, taken from the enemy and
put at their disposal by Hun-
garian soldiers who, in increas-
ing numbers, sided with the
nationalists.
No longer could the Rus-
sians fight from the safety of
their steel walls against a
population who attacked with
their bare hands, “Molotov
cocktails” and small-arms.
Now there were tanks against
tanks! They panicked. Often,
by sheer misunderstanding,
two “loyal” Soviet units battled
against each other.
The country was already in
the hands of the rebels, and the
battle for Budapest was turn-
ing in their favor.
YOUNG Tamas was not one
of those tough street-
urchins hardened by the con-
tinuous fight for survival, made
cunning and brave. The other
youngsters, some or them
hardly in their teens, managed
to handle guns, ignite Russian
armored-cars; a few even
demolished . some of the Red
tanks.* The day’s hard work
on the Hay-square barricade
ended in sore muscles and a
cold, which kept him in bed
for three days. When he got
up he begged his father to take
him to the city.
Lovas didn’t have the heart
to refuse. How could he keep
his son locked-up and forbidden
to witness history? Whenever
he thought that the danger had
lessened in the streets he took
Tamas with him.
Destruction everywhere—
these were the monuments of
the nation’s fight for freedom.
He took him to Stalin-square,
where the people, as one of
their first acts of contempt,
crashed down the gigantic
monument of the Red dictator.
All that remained on the huge
pedestal were the jackboots.
The bronze colossus bad
been dragged for miles, and
left in a side-street near the
National Theatre, on Rakoczy-
road. At any lull in the fight-
ing the people attacked the
monument with hammers and
chisels, tearing it to pieces;
bashing and banging, singing
and jeering, like natives beat-
ing on a tomtom, celebrating
victory.
But hate was not their only
motive. The Budapesters
wanted bronze fragments as
souvenirs. The ears, fingers,
nose and forearms and the
bushy moustache went first. A
gentleman’s agreement was
reached to limit the size of
Stalin souvenirs. While Lovas
was carving out a fragment for
his son, an argument started.
“Listen,” a woman said to a
man who held a big chunk of
Stalin’s bronze neck in his
hand, “give the others a go.
You’re taking away too much.”
A few other souvenir-hunters
surrounded the greedy one.
“You’re quite right,” the
man explained. “I’m not en-
titled to keep so much Stalin
for myself, but I’m taking it
back to our whole plant. They
are at New Pest, on the barri-
cades ; they sent me for it.”
“Well, you might as well
take a couple of more chunks
for all your trouble and ser-
vice, with our regards,” another
man said, and handed his piece
over. Others followed his
example. Then they all re-
sumed, furiously hacking at
the monument.
Within the next three days
the giant statue completely dis-
appeared, and late-comers were
searching in the dust to get
hold of at least an atom of the
idol they hated, the most hated
landmark in the city, for which
the Hungarian Bolsheviks
desecrated and demolished the
church Regnum Marianum. On
May Day, among other State
occasions, Budapesters had
been driven out to the monu-
ment to pay homage to the Red
dictator and to Russian might.
The Hungarian Comrades
had loved to hold miniature
Red-square days. In the past,
Hungarian workers had looked
on May Day as a day of
inspiration, but during the
Communist regime it became
one of ultimate disappoint-
ment. They had to worship
the new idol on ground
sacred to Hungary’s patron-
saint.
Not far from the fast-
diminishing Stalin monument,
a half-destroyed Russian
armored-car had chalked on it,
“General Repairs, October 24,
1956.”
There were the great
resistance-centres, such as the
Kilian-Gyorgy barracks, where
the soldiers of Colonel Pal
Maleter, a hero of Budapest,
held out and repulsed foimid-
able Soviet attacks. If the
revolution, the most spon-
taneous in history, had few
leaders, Colonel Maleter was
one of them.
and son travelled
great distances on their
strange sightseeing-tour. There
was no public transport, but
the patriots’ trucks stopped at
street - corners. The drivers
leaned out, and asked pedes-
trians their destination. People
walking that way climbed on
the trucks.
This free and willing trans-
port proved to be a great help
to the traffic-bound population.
Tamas took-in the sights of
destruction where young
Hungarians fought and died.
“No matter what happens to
us, you must always remember
these days,” his father said.
The boy nodded, his eyes
filled with tears. But there was
also occasion for him to smile.
Radio Budapest’s children’s
session used to begin, “Good-
evening, children, 1 hope you
are already in bed?” Now
some wit who could also draw
had written on a wall: “Good-
evening, children, I hope you
are already on the barricades.”
The illustration showed children
climbing out of their beds,
leaving home, and climbing on
the barricades.
Tamas laughed at this. He
could appreciate it more than
the sight of the dead and
wounded, his father’s relentless
search for the “old man,” the
puzzle of Aunt Maria’s
sporadic appearances with her
“guitar” and his mother’s
desperate prayers for his
father’s safe return.
Occasionally, when Paula
felt strong enough, she went
with her two men. On one
such expedition all three were
nearly killed. They were head-
ing towards Parliament-square,
packed with thousands of
demonstrators, but actually
occupied by Russian armored-
cars and tanks.
It was a time of temporary
truce. The Russians appeared
friendly enough. They even
placed a mutilated Hungarian
flag on one of their armored-
cars. Some of them leaned out
of their vehicles smiling and
waving to the milling crowd,
which stayed a healthy distance
from them.
“Go home. Russkis, and we
might be friends yet,” some-
one in the crowd yelled out.
The Russians went on waving
and smiling.
The Hungarians, encouraged
by this friendliness, and see-
ing their own flag flying on an
enemy vehicle, went nearer.
Then the Soviet soldiers fired
on the unarmed people.
Hundreds fell.
It was at this very moment
that Lovas arrived with his
wife and son from one of the
side-streets. They turned and
ran to the Margaret Bridge, and
lay flat on their bellies while
the Soviet armor pursued the
fleeing crowd. For three long
{Continued on page 56)


A.N.P.
A
■
■ s si
.
' -
S
?:SSB?Sk
m
8
news for private company directors
A new plan for
key men has recently '
been introduced by the
A.M.P. Society jit
TO* plan fiGs remarkable
advantages in helping you solve you*
INCOME TAX and DEATH DUTY
problems.
Contact your A.M.P. Representative of
telephone your nearest A.M.P. office
for full information.
ITWPf
STBIffT—B 0530; MELBOURNE—MB 1781
|BSSBAN£ —FA 1991# ADELAIDE-LA 2372
ICI7B—JUL2BBU HOBART—B 7621 A
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICEi 87 PITT STREET, SyDNEy • GENERAL MANAGER. M. C. BUTTFIELD
TuW


Paying for Roads
THROUGHOUT history people have
always been far more willing to use
roads than to pay for their upkeep, and
it has always been easier to complain
about potholes than to find someone to
mend them. In theory it is sound enough
that those who use the roads should pay
for them, but in practice it’s not so
simple—particularly in Australia, where
the responsibility of finding the money is
divided among several authorities.
Almost all our roads are built and main-
tained by the State Governments —either
through their Main Roads Boards or
Public Works Departments or through
the shire and municipal councils.
Who pays for them? Well, that’s rather
a complicated business.
To begin with, the ratepayers find part
of the cost, both in their own munici-
pality and through the contribution their
council makes to the Main Roads Board
or its equivalent. The general taxpayer
also pays—to the extent of State Govern-
ment drawings from Consolidated
Revenue. Apart from their share as
ratepayers and taxpayers road-users pay
in at least two ways. Their ownership
of motor-vehicles imposes on them a
liability to contribute through registra-
tion-fees fixed by State Governments.
These fees are determined by the size
of the vehicle and have no relation to
road-usage. Petrol-tax, levied by the
Federal Government, bears a rough
relationship to mileage and thus to road-
usage, but not all of it finds its way into
road-works —a point that leads to endless
squabbles between State and Federal
authorities.
Road Transports
In recent years the increasing use of
main roads and State highways by long-
distance hauliers has been responsible for
the biggest arguments on the financing
of roads. The problem is twofold. It is
indisputable that heavy transports have
played Old Harry with road-surfaces;
secondly, as they use diesel-fuel or dis-
tillates on which no equivalent of petrol-
tax is imposed, they make no direct con-
tribution to the upkeep of roads.
All States have at various times imposed
road-transport taxes, but in most cases
the revenue has been used to bolster-up
the finances of the State railways and not
for the upkeep of roads. As far as inter-
state traffic is concerned these taxes have
been disallowed by the High Court and
Privy Council as infringements of Section
92 of the Constitution, but two States,
Victoria and South Australia, have
since devised new laws which they feel
will stand up to legal challenge. They
should soon know whether they're right;
a High Court decision is expected this
week.
Rates of motor-vehicle taxation vary
from State to State, as do the contribu-
tions of local-governing bodies. The
N. S. Wales figures show the general
pattern. In the year ended June 30, 1956,
the total revenue of the N. S. Wales
Department of Main Roads was
£13,820,637. This was gathered from the
following sources:
Motor-vehicles Taxation (State) £7,675,281
Petrol-tax (Commonwealth) .. 4,646,788
Shires and councils 878,621
Contributions from other
departments and bodies .. 110,545
Provided by Commonwealth
for special works 301,225
Miscellaneous 58,177
Stale Government loan .. .. 150,000
£13,820,637
Of this sum almost £6 million was spent
on “maintenance and minor improve-
ments” and a little over £7 million on
construction and reconstruction. In
addition to this, large sums were expended
out of revenue or loan-funds by local-
governing bodies for roads under their
direct control.
It is difficult to reach an accurate
figure for current expenditure on roads
in the whole of Australia, but in a debate
in the Representatives at the end of
April Mr. Bird, M.H.R. for Batman
(Vic.), placed the annual figure at £lOO
million and was not contradicted. He
based this on the actual figure for 1954-55,
which was £B4 million, and made allow-
ance for an increase of £lO million in the
petrol-tax allocation and a further £6
million for increased tax-collections by
the States.
Petrol Tax
Mr. Bird quoted a report from the
Committee of Transport Economic
Research which considered that the
amount required to be spent in the next
10 years to put Australia’s roads in order
would be £1643 million—or just over
£164 million a year. On this basis it is
clear that the current rate of expenditure
will never solve the problem. He advo-
cated as a part solution that the Federal
Government should allocate the full pro-
ceeds of the petrol-tax to the States (at
present they get about 70 per cent.) and
that a tax should be imposed on diesel-
fuel and distillates used by road-
transports.
This argument on petrol-tax is a hardy
annual at Premiers’ conferences. It cuts
across party-politics and most State
Premiers have crossed swords with Can-
berra over it. The States claim that the
tax was introduced for the specific pur-
pose of road-maintenance. The Federal
Government contends that there was a
tax on petrol long before the Federal Aid
Roads Agreement was thought of.
Both are right, in part. Petrol was
taxed as far back as 1902, when motor-
cars were almost as much a rarity on the
roads as a carriage-and-pair is today.
The first Federal road-grants were made
in 1923, and the payments were not
related to petrol-tax until three years
later. However, it cannot be disputed
that when Sir Earle Page introduced his
Budget in 1926, he said:
The State Governments, ladling the
poiver to impose Customs duties, are un-
able to effectively reach all road-users.
The Commonwealth, therefore, is co-operat-
ing with the States in a national roads
policy, and will impose special Customs
duties which will be hypothecated for
road-construction. The imposition of
. these duties at the source will ulti-
mately result in the road-users paying:
this special tax proportionately to their
use of the roads.
' Very soon after its introduction the
Scullin and Lyons Governments dipped
into petrol-tax collections to help finance
their depression Budgets and war-time
Treasurers, looking for extra revenue,
made further inroads.
By 1948 only 40 per cent, of the petrol-
tax was being handed-over to the States ;
this year’s figure (£27 million out of £37
million) is about 74 per cent. Immigra-
tion Minister Townley used this as an
argument to show that proportionately
to State expenditure the Commonwealth
is making a greater contribution to roads
than 10 years ago.
There is, however, no point in selecting
the early post-war years for the purposes
of comparison ; the States can validly
reply that in 1927, when neither depression
nor war obscured the situation, the roads
received 100 per cent, of the tax. They
have a strong case for urging that it is
time they got it again.
Diesel Fuel
There are also good grounds for asking
for a tax on diesel-luel and distillate.
Why petrol-users should be the only
vehicle-owners taxed on their fuel-
consumption is something no Federal
Minister has adequately explained.
Even with these increased sources of
revenue the road problem would be .far
from solved. If the current High Court
proceedings uphold the Victorian and
South Australian attempt to tax inter-
state hauliers other States will no doubt
hasten to enact similar laws, if not* then
some other way will have to be found,
even if it involves a referendum. It is
inequitable that the heavy vehicles which
do the most damage to State highways
should make the smallest contribution to
their upkeep. Most of the hauliers now
realise this.
At a conference at Albury, called
by shire councils to discuss damage
done to roads by inter-State transports,
the president of the Australian Road
Transport Federation, who claimed he
spoke for 90 per cent, of road-hauliers,
said that they were prepared to pay “any-
thing assessed by a national inquiry as
an equitable amount, provided provision
is made for the investment of the money
in the road-system.” N. S. Wales High-
ways Minister Renshaw said that the pro-
position was acceptable provided there
were no tags on it, but the following day
he dismissed it as impractical, as there
could be no guarantee that the remaining
10 per cent, of hauliers would honor such
a compact.
The Minister had probably realised in
the meantime that no Government can
afford to bargain with a section of tax-
payers over taxation policy. At the same
time the hauliers are quite justified
in objecting to being taxed for the benefit
of the railways. Road-transport taxes
should be used for the improvement of
roads, not for the purpose of artificially
reducing railway-deficits.


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
This year’s Doomben Ten
Thousand, as is its bent, once
again looks a race for visitors.
On performances the opposi-
tion from southern States and
New Zealand should make it
stormy weather for local
sprinters. Sydney’s Kingster,
runaway winner of the Q.T.C.
Stradbroke, will be in there
angling for another bite of the
Brisbane plum ; but with 9.13
he looks to have his share of
weight.
For the Ten Thousand:
Mandingos, 1 ; Teratiyan, 2;
Just Marguerite, 3.
Enzedder El Khobar, now in
America (and a first-up winner
there!), had an easy win in last
year’s Doomben sprint. In an
open betting race he was a
10-to-l chance. Ridden by N.
Sellwood, he beat Sydney
sprinters Criollo and Teranyan,
and ran the seven furlongs less
93yds. in 1.18. Race-record,
1.17-y, was made in 1947 by
Highstrung, with Noel Mc-
Growdie on top. McGrowdie
had later successes on Coniston
(1951) and Highlea (1952) and
so has done the right thing by
Queensland owners. Other
visiting horses to win the Ten
Thousand in recent seasons
have been Apple Bay, Nagpuni,
True Leader, Ungar and
Murray Stream ; in adding
fruit to the sideboard with
U.S. wins El Khobar has
further followed the lead of
Nagpuni and Apple Bay.
The Grand National Hurdle, to
be run at Flemington next Saturday,
dates to 1881. To win over the
three miles and fifteen hurdles of
the race a horse needs to be at the
peak of fitness and possessed of
abundant courage and stamina; and
the same qualities are demanded
ol the rider.
Tim Corrigan, often rated as the
greatest cross-country rider of them
all, won the first National on Sir
Peter. Thereafter the roll of win-
ning jockeys is studded with
famous names: Hughie Cairns and
Colin Boyd both won the race
twice; Frank Dummett and Laurie
Meehan three times each; Frank
Douglas holds the record with four
wins; and last year Brian Smith,
peer of present-day jumping riders,
had the winning mount on Redfield.
The National Hurdle has been a
difficult race for heavily-weighted
horses. Of the 76 winners only 14
have carried more than 11.0, which
emphasises the merit of Cheery
Jack’s performance. In 1940 that
son of David carried 11.7 and ran
the distance in 5.28, still the record
time for the race. Incidentally,
from Cheery Jack’s year until 1946
five of the six winners were sired by
David. Don Quixote holds the
weight-carrying record, set when he
tumped 11.13 back in 1884.
• • • •
Having previously won over
the jumps since weights were
declared for the Grand
National Hurdle, Book Value
risked a penalty of up to 141 b.
by running in the Federal
Hurdle at Moonee Valley last
Saturday. But trainer Fred
Silcock, who knows what’s
required from a National
winner—he trained Storytime
for its 1954 win—decided that
Book Value needed another
searching run before tackling
the big race. The six-year-old
Genetout gelding confirmed
his position as National
favorite by winning the
Federal in a common canter.
As a result he has been
penalised 101 b. and will carry
10.10 in the big jump. Book
Value has now won four of his
last five hurdle starts, and,
barring accidents, should add
the National to his record.
Redfield, last year’s National
winner, had a harmless fall in
the Federal hurdle, and will
start next Saturday. He does
not seem anything like as
good as he was last year.
McKenna got a long way out
of his ground in the Federal,
but came home strongly. He
races best at Flemington, and
will not be troubled by the
three miles of the National.
CLIFF JOHNSON, N.Z. captain in
the World Cup games. Second-
row or prop forward, Johnson
was one of N.Z.’s consistent
best in the series, including last
Saturday’s The Rest v.
Australia.
For the National Hurdle:
Book Value, 1 ; Lord Celere,
2; McKenna, 3.
• • • •
In winning the mile Picca-
ninny Handicap for two-year-
olds the Neapolitan gelding
Well Placed confirmed the
staying promise he revealed at
Caulfield the previous week.
He was always prominent, and
in the run home scored at his
ease. When he was offered
for sale as a yearling by
Albury breeder Frank Mc-
Grath, Well Placed did not
reach the reserve, and he is
now raced on lease by George
Lopes. He has the look of a
good galloper, and may go
further than the average winter
performer. Incidentally, the
mount on Well Placed was the
first leg of a double to jockey
B. V. Hall. The lad had a
nasty fall at Pakenham some
time ago, and *had not been
riding with full confidence
since. Saturday’s success was
just the morale-booster he
needed.
The conditions of the Com-
monwealth Steeple (maximum
weight 10.11) made the race
a benefit for Moonee Valley
specialist Van Perri. At his
last start around the circular
track Van Perri carried 12.2
and was only narrowly
defeated by Franstone. He
started at “Phar Lap” odds-
on last Saturday and won by
half the length of the straight.
The £lO5O first prize lifted Van
Perri’s stake earnings to
£10,725 —more than any other
present-day jumper has won.
In all, he has won 14 jumping
races, 10 of them at Moonee
Valley. His stake-earnings are
remarkable for a horse who
lacks the stamina to win an
important race.
The first division of the six-
furlongs Melba Handicap for
two-year-old fillies at Moonee
Valley presented a paradox for
students of breeding. The
winner, Awaiting, is a Meadow
Mist filly out of Hesitant.
Most of the Meadow Mist
breed are renowned for speed ;
but, as in her previous races,
Awaiting found it difficult to
muster early pace, yet came
home very strongly to win
running away. On the other
hand, Burning Embers, second
home, is by Djafar, son of the
French stayer Djebel; while
she has tons of early speed,
Burning Embers fades at the
business-end of her races, Sir
Chester Manifold bred Await-
ing at his Camperdown
property, and the filly is raced
on lease by Mrs. E. T. Coady.
Fourth placegetter in this race,
Rainbow Royal, did not have
much luck in running, but
impressed with her strong
finish. She is likely to win
soon.
• • • •
Winner of the second divi-
sion of the Melba, Demi-
monde, is not much bigger
JACQUES MERQUEY, captain of
France in the World Cup series,
and skipper of The Rest against
Australia on Saturday. Brilliant
attacking centre. Visited Aus-
tralia with the 1951 and 1955
French teams.
than pony size ; but she knows
how to gallop, and, what is
perhaps more important, has
a lot of courage. She was in
a bad pocket on the turn into
the short Valley straight, but
when the leaders fanned out
a little Demimonde responded
well to Ron Hutchinson’s vigor
to take the tight opening and
go on to a narrow win. Her
success broke an unusually
long run of “outs” for
Hutchinson, who, possibly
heartened by his success, later
completed a double on Ki Son.
Demimonde, who is raced by
Sir Rupert Clarke, has started
only three times for two wins.
She will now be spelled in the


CARRY THE
BURDEN
mas
Established 1808 in Reign oj
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
{England)
N.B.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
hope that she’ll grow a bit
before the important fillies’
events of the spring come
around.
The 13 furlongs of the
Ardoch Handicap at Moonee
Valley tested the stamina of
the three-year-olds engaged.
Ki Son’s win in the 'event
indicated the value of good
staying-blood. The colt is by
the French horse Prince Ki,
who was successful up to 151
furlongs in France and up to
two miles in England. Prince
Ki was by the Belgium
champion Prince Rose, who
was unbeaten in 16 starts and
leading sire in his own country
from 1938 to 1941, and in
France in 1946 and 1947. Ki
Son’s win gave further evidence
of Ron Hutchinson’s ability
as a rider in distance races.
Hutchinson is rated the best
rider over a bit of ground in
Victoria, and certainly it was
his superlative judgment of
pace that landed Ki Son a
narrow winner.
Trainer L. J. O’Sullivan’s
judgment was not far astray —
only a neddy’s nose, in fact —
when he elected to start Teran-
yan in the six-furlongs Warwick
Farm Wilson Handicap in pre-
ference to the First Welter, a
mile event. Backed from fives
to 7 to 2, Teranyan had it
won everywhere but on the
line, where Bolingbroke,
staging a last-to-first reversal,
stuck his bib in. In the six-
furlongs event the pressure was
on all the way, as indicated
by the time— l.lOf, a fraction
outside the course-record of
l.lOi held by Gay Vista, a
stablemate of Teranyan.
The horses - for - courses
theory applied when Atlantic
Sun was backed to favoritism
for the final event at Warwick
Farm, the Second Welter.
Trained at that course by J. W.
Barker, Atlantic Sun has won
most of his races on provincial
tracks, while his city wins have
been at Warwick Farm.
Before his latest success he
had won there in similar
company on May 29, and in
July last he scored at the Farm
in Novice company. Minor
places have been his lot on
other suburban tracks.
If Darby Munro (hoop-
turned-trainer) didn’t appear
highly elated when Teranyan’s
two-year-old sister Lelspec won
the opening Warwick Farm
event, the Novice Handicap for
two-year-old fillies, perhaps the
filly’s starting price—a neglected
20 to 1 explains it. Fil
Allotta’s apprentice, W. Erick-
son, didn’t have to use over-
much vigor to land Lelspec a
nice winner over the better-
fancied Pale Blue and Estrina.
Rosebery trainer Percy
Leahey must be a man of
patience, for he has needed
that virtue and then some with
the four-year-old mare Passion
Queen, who, hard ridden by
A. Ward, won the Lands-
downe Stakes (a graduation
event for fillies and mares) at
Warwick Farm. Close on two
years ago Passion Queen won
a maiden sprint at Canterbury,
and it was then thought she’d
go on to better things. But
despite smart trackwork she
was a big disappointment,
with, as her best efforts, seven
seconds. Her Warwick Farm
outing was her 40th since her
initial success, and Leahey is
now hoping that the drought
has ended so far as Passion
Queen is concerned.
A smart man with horses,
Frank Lewis has won half-a-
dozen races with Grenoble,
who in recent starts has been
ridden by veteran jockey Jack
Dennett. Dennett rides the
colt in all his trackwork,
where he is a hard puller ; but
in races he runs to his jockey’s
will. Dennett has ridden many
country winners in recent
months, but In's only two city
wins have been on Grenoble.
He rode the colt with skill in
his Warwick Farm Fraser
Handicap success.
A 1300gns.-buy at the 1956
Randwick sales, the Darby
Munro-trained El Rocco made
his first credit-account in a
Kembla two-year-old maiden.
The gelding is a son of Damtar
(Fr.), who has yet to make a
name for himself as a sire ; so
far he hasn’t had many runners,
and the oldest of them are in
their first season. One of his
best is the grey speedster Grey
Prince, who cost 2900gns. as a
yearling; he preceded El
Rocco into the sale-ring. La
Duchess, dam of El Rocco, is
by Le Grand Due (Fr.) from
Chaptrel (imp.) by Son in Law.
• • * •
Gregory John, winner of a
Canterbury Park mid-week
Maiden Handicap at an out-
sider’s price, is trained by
Johnny Donohoe for brother
Frank, a Sydney legal man. The
three-year-old gelding is by
Lawrence (a winner of several
Melbourne w.-f.-a. contests
about 12 years back, and of the
V.R.C. St. Leger), and is from
My Eva by Hellespont (Fr.)
from Nutalli by Magpie (imp.),
Class gallopers of yesteryear,
Arachne and Winooka, appear
in the pedigree. Donohoe
trained Arachne when that
brilliant sprinter won the 1935
Oakleigh Plate.
The M. McCarten-trafned
two-year-old gelding Lord
Russett looked something
beaten in the Warwick Farm
Casula Novice ; while another
unlucky runner in the same
event was El Rocco, fresh from
his Kembla success. Both
youngsters could soon rejoin
the winning-list. Drawn well at
No. 7, Lord Russett was slow to
get going, and after a furlong
or so was second-last. Still one
of the last four at the half-
mile, he then got a run, and,
hard ridden by Sellwood, he
managed to get them all but
Merry King.
....
Brisbane trainer George
Benn led in Civil Jury, winner
D f the Q.T.C. Ross Stakes for
two-year-olds. The chestnut
colt is by Justice Jury (imp.)
from Te Loch (a Doomben
winner) by Balloch (imp.)
from Te Parae by Croupier,
Bred in Queensland, he comes
from the same family as former
notable galloper High Caste,
Justice Jury’s oldest progeny
are two-years, and he has
already had a few winners.
Got by Fair Trial from Jury
by Hurry On, he won races in
England from six furlongs to
a mile, and is a close relative
of Confessor (imp.), Advocate
and Whirlaway (imp.),
....
“Bicky”: Reg. Heather, who
has decided to hang up his
boots and saddle because of
increasing weight, is one of
Australia’s most widely
travelled hoops. Ritler of over
1000 winners, he was success-
ful in most Australian States,
and in Ceylon, India, Singapore
and the U.S.A. Heather, who


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. —In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO FLORA PHYLLIS EVA KERR late
of 41 Coburg Road Coburg in the State
of Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE that ROY
ASHLEY KERR has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1173 of 1957 on the
grounds of wilful desertion during three
years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearanee in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 6th day of
September 1957 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
DENSLEY & DOWNING, Solicitors, of
149 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
SOLTUGGIO, Maria (daughter of
DOMENICO and ALICE LENA SOL-
TUGGIO), may also be known as
MARIA VAN GILS, born 30th April,
1922, at Swan View, Western Australia,
or anyone knowing her whereabouts,
please communicate urgently with The
West Australian Trustee, Executor and
Agency Company, Limited, of 135 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, Executor of
DOMENICO SOLTOGGIO.
Established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON x
osuixrvA*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
MEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW VORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOFES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKB
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILEB
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
began as an apprentice to the
late Jack Holt—“ The Wizard
from Mordialloc” lived for
a while in Sydney, where his
mounts included one in a
hurdle - race at Randwick.
Although he failed to win a
Melbourne Cup, he kicked
home winners in a lot of the
other big races, among them the
A.J.C. Derby (Magnificent and
Alister), V.R.C. Derby (Alister),
Caulfield Cup (Royal Gem),
Moonee Valley Cup (Don
Pedro). His luckiest race was
the Toorak Handicap, which he
won seven times.
And Sundry Sports
Rugby Memories
“Old Rep.” (B. 19/6/’57)
took us old-timers back to the
great days of Rugby Union in
N.S.W. But may I make an
addition or two as well as some
small corrections?
The organiser of the team com-
mented on was B. I. (not B. J.)
Swannell, and the team was called
the “Skingaringas.” “Blair 1.,” as we
knew him, was a colorful figure.
His last service to the amateur code
was as a referee. In this he wore
his “coat of many colors” —a white
jersey on which were emblazoned
monograms, club tags and the like.
Swannell first came to Australia in
1897 on a windjammer, and as “Old
Rep.” wrote, he came again with
British teams in 1899 and 1904.
When the Ist A.I.F. landed in Egypt
“Blair I.” was major of a double
company of the Ist Battalion. He
was killed on the Peninsula. I
have always believed that he was a
casualty on the day of the landing
—perhaps not.
One of my personal recollections
of Swannell concerns a match he
refereed on Manly Oval when we
(Manly) played ’Varsity. I kicked
a wet ball, giving it all I could. It
struck Swannell amidships and
dropped him. The “S. M. Herald”
reported that “from a particularly
hard kick by A the ball hit the
referee, who took the count.”
“Old Rep.” errs when he writes of
Tom Richards. It is implied that
he was English. Richards was born
in Charters Towers (Q.), and he
and his elder brother Bill both
repped for Queensland. Tom was
a member of Paddy Moran’s
Wallabies who toured Britain in
1908, but did not return with the
other members of the side. He
played a season in England—with
Gloucester, I think. He came back
to Australia via South Africa.
Richards was never captain of
Manly although he played for two
seasons with my old club.
In 1912 a New Zealander, Wilson,
was captain of Manly until he was
dropped after a few games.
Richards came in then as breakaway,
but Dave Fitzgerald, who had been
vice-captain, naturally took over the
captaincy.
In that year also an Australian
team went to U.S.A. Richards was
eager to go to America and was
selected for the tour after a club
game against University. He was,
I think, the last man chosen, but
that was because the selectors didn’t
quite know whether he was a
Bananalander or an N. S. Welshman.
In this club game, to make cer-
tain that his mate’s work would be
outstanding, Andy Prowse per-
suaded Richards to don a pair of
white shorts. One pair of whites
and 29 pairs of black pants! Add
to this that Richards played a whale
of a game and the selectors just had
to pick him.
“General” Ernie Booth, an All
Black mentioned by “Old Rep.,”
also played on this side of the
Tasman —for Manly, too.
J. D. A.
• • •
“L.B.S.”: The 16st. All Black
fullback Don Clarke may yet
join the select few to represent
N.Z. at both cricket and
Rugby Union. He was Auck-
land’s leading Plunket Shield
bowler for two years, and
should be in the running to go
to England with next year’s
N.Z. cricket-team. He com-
manded some respect from Ian
Craig’s tourists with his fast-
medium stuff for Waikato last
March. Of his hitting powers
Craig’s team had only a
glimpse. When Canterbury
played Northern Districts at
Hamilton four years ago one
of his sixes off N.Z. slow left-
hander T. B. Burtt comfortably
cleared 50ft. trees fringing the
ground and was measured by
K. C. Sandford, member of
the N.Z. Board of Cricket
Control, at 111yds. from hit
to pitch. Burtt described it as
the greatest hit ever made off
his bowling. Apropos, Clarke’s
strength is not confined to his
arm —he can punt the ball the
length of a football-field.
All the winners of the second
round of Sydney’s Rugby
Union repeated their wins on
Saturday when the same teams
again lined-up against one
another. In a dull match-of-
the-day St. George held out
long enough to beat University
9-6; Gordon, still on top of
the table, slapped a second coat
of whitewash on Eastwood
(37-0 first time, 31-0 on Satur-
day); Randwick, also in high-
scoring mood lately and with
Test-winger Morton getting
four tries, beat North 26-11 ;
East fought off Drummoyne
14-3, spectators getting for
their money a prelim.-bout or
two as well as the football;
and Manly beat Parramatta
12-3.
* * *
Winding-up the 1957 World
Cup Rugby League series at the
S.C.G., Australia beat “The
Rest” 20-11 in, for the most
part, a bright and spectacular game.
It was more “fair-dinkum” than
most critics had expected.
After Australian fullback Carlson
had opened the scoring with a
penalty-goal, the clever French five-
eighth Benausse scored a snappy
try to give The Rest its only lead,
3-2; but if Jones had been in form
with the boot The Rest would have
been in front at half-time. As it
was, Australia led only 5-3 at
lemons, with the game stiff anyone’s.
Unfortunately for the match as a
real test for Australia, The Rest
had to play practically the whole
of the second half a man short;
Benausse went off a couple of
minutes past the interval after he’d
been illegally tackled by Australian
five-eighth Hawick. Almost
immediately Jones let-in winger
Moir after a bad kick, and the final
result became clear, though The Rest
continued to press on. Australia
thus won its four World Cup games
-—a creditable performance.
There was earlier criticism of the
selection of The Rest team, on the
score that it wasn’t the best possible
team —and certainly one or two
other Englishmen might have
strengthened the side. But the team
which played did have brilliant backs
(skipper Merquey, Benausse, and
Enzedder Sorensen) and solid, hard-
working forwards (notably N.Z.
skipper Johnson and the French
hooker Appelian, who were both in
everything on Saturday). For a
team which had trained together
only once The Rest combined well,
though simple misunderstanding did
at times seem to cog the works
when a try looked certain. If any-
one on the field was disinterested it
was English fullback Jones, who
showed only rare glimpses of his
undoubted class; in their kicking
duels Carlson generally outkicked
and outmanoeuvred him.
* * *
After Saturday’s 11th round
of the V.F.L. “the four” are
now Melbourne, Haw-
thorn, Carlton and Richmond,
the Demons being one win
ahead of the other three. Then
comes Footscray, two points
behind, followed by Essendon,
Collingwood and North, all
level on match-points only one
win behind the last three
members of “the four” ; so the
first eight teams are all still
possibles. Melbourne, winning
in a powerful second-quarter
burst in which it kicked 8.7 to
1.1, thrashed Footscray 12.15-
7.9. Collingwood, which has
found some form while it is
still not quite too late, was just
a little too good for Haw-
thorn 13.15-10.14, while North,
certainly an improved team this
year, came from behind in a
grimly fought last quarter to
beat Essendon, 13.11-11.14.
Richmond, with a terrific first
quarter (8.2-0.1), continued its
winning run at Geelong’s
expense, 14.8-10.9 the trip
down to Geelong is not now as
unrewarding as it once
generally was; this was the
Cats’ third successive defeat in
their own lair, and the Tigers’
first win at Geelong since 1950.
Carlton beat St. Kilda, 13.14-
7.13, and South just lield off
Fitzroy 15.19-14.12.
* * *
Football round-up: At Walls-
end (N.S.W.) Australia, led by
this country’s No. 1 Soccer
player Joe Marston and with
Dutch goalkeeper Joe Ruyters,
now of Victoria, starring, sur-
prisingly defeated F.K. Austria
3-2 in the first Test. In Auck-
land, N.Z. beat Hong Kong 2-1
in the second Test. In Perth
Hungarian Soccer-club Ferenc-
varos beat W.A. 6-1 Also in
Perth, in the National code,
Victoria easily defeated W.A.
15.25-6.12. In Sydney, on
Sunday, the touring Perth club
tossed N.S.W. 20.14-15.14.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Will Lawson’s Three
Kings (verse), Bush Verses and Ihe
Red West Road. —6537.
To buy the New South Wales
Department of Mines’ “Geological
Survey, Mineral Resources” (Nos.
1-6, 8-15, 20, 25, 28, 29, 31, 40 to
date); the “Journal and Proceedings
of the Royal Society of New South
Wales” (Vols. 1, 3-8, 49, 67 to date);
C.5.1.R.0. “Bulletin” (Nos. 1-17,
19-23, 25, 28, 30-36, 38-43, 46, 49-51,
54, 55, 57, 61, 64-66, 72, 77, 80-90,
93, 94, 112-116, 125, 127, 148, 156,
172, 191, 198, 205-207, 219, 231, 233,
236, 240); “Minutes of Proceedings
ol the Engineering Association of
N.S.W.” (Vols. 1,4, 5,7, 18, 21-23,
25, 26, 31).—6538.
Man of cultured tastes and travel-
experienced would like to hear from
another to plan trip overseas of
moderate scale. —6539.
To buy any issues of “Australian
Post Office Guide” published before
1927.—6540.
Does Anybody Know?
In what poem by Coleridge can
be found the words:
....like one drop of oil upon a flood,
In uncommunicating solitude.
Information Sought
Brief outline of the Premiers’
Plan of 1931 ?
The principal elements of the
plan, as finally agreed to by the
1931 Premiers’ Conference, were:
(c) Reduction of 20 per cent, in all
adjustable Government expenditure
as compared with the year ended
June 30, 1930 —sole exception was
old-age and invalid pensions, which
were reduced by per cent.; (6)
conversion of internal debts of the
Governments on the basis of a 22\
per cent, reduction of interest; (c)
securing of additional revenue by
taxation, both Commonwealth and
State; (d) reduction of bank and
savings-bank rates of interest on
deposits and advances; (e) relief in
respect of private mortgages. The
plan was bitterly opposed in some
influential quarters, mainly on the
score of the violation of contract
involved. This was one of the
chief points of objection to the
plan raised at the time by The
Bulletin, which, while recognising
that emergency measures were
necessary, continued to point out
correctly that anything damaging to
Australia’s credit must be avoided
at all costs. However, though there
was a lot of risk involved (in under-
mining confidence, etc.), the plan
as a practical measure did succeed.
(The Bulletin repeatedly receives
inquiries about the Premiers' Plan,
the “Lang” Plan and E. G.
Theodore’s plan, all of the same
period. It could be that many people
believe the same financial conditions
may arise again, calling for a new
“Premiers’ Plan”; but on present
indications there’s little likelihood of
this happening.)
* * * *
Some early history of Brookong,
the big sheep-station mentioned in
“Blue Cap at Brookong” ( B.
24110/ '56) ?
The following information comes
from Cuthbert Fetherstonhaugh's
After Many Days, a copy of which
is in the Mitchell Library: Brookong
was taken-up by Henry Osborne in
1847, the native name for the place
being Booragong. (Soon after
Osborne arrived in the district, he
is said to have ascended the only
hill in the district, and, looking out
over the plains, exclaimed “There’s
land enough and galore for me”;
the hill has ever since been called
Galore, as is the neighboring town.)
Brookong in the following years had
an area of some 650,000 acres, and
was divided into three runs —Berry
Jerry, 150,000 acres; Brookong,
315,000 acres, on the north side of
Urangeline Creek; and Urangcline,
192,000 acres, south of the
Urangeline. Cuthbert Felherston-
haugh became manager of the
215,000-qcre Brookong run, then
owned by Osborne and Hebden, in
June, 1866. Brookong at that time
was “a large unimproved station,”
70,000 acres being plain, 50,000 open
forest and the rest heavily timbered
box and pine country; it carried
46,000 sheep, with wild horses and
cattle on the run. Brookong and
Urangeline were noted for their lat
wethers, which were walked to Mel-
bourne, and, says Fetherstonhaugh,
“nearly always topped the market.”
Fetherstonhaugh left Brookong in
1872, to enter the ministry, and was
succeeded as manager by Charles
Hebden, 21-year-old son of
Brookong's managing partner.
Urangeline had been sold to
Robert Rand in 1864, Berry Jerry
was sold to John Leitch in 1873
and Brookong to William Halliday,
later a member of the N.S.W.
Legislative Council, also in 1873.
Halliday was all but ruined in the
1876-77 drought, when he lost
130,000 sheep; but he recovered his
losses, and in the ’eighties
Brookong was shearing 300,000
sheep. It was in 1868 that the
bushranger “Blue Cap” held-up
Brookong, as described in B.
24/10/’56, Baroroft Boake writing
a poem in praise of Fetherston-
haugh’s courage at the time.
Apropos, another manager of
Brookong, Archie Irvine, was such
a strong and fearless man that, says
Feth»rstonhaugh, Morgan the bush-
ranger, who operated in the area,
was never game to attack Brookong.
* * #
What was the story of the game
played on England’s last Rugby
League tour of Australia which was
abandoned by the referee ?
This was England v. N.S.W. at the
S.C.G. on July 10, 1954, the Satur-
day before the deciding third Test.
England had picked only two or
three of its Third Test team; a
forward, Gunney, was fullback, and
two other forwards were played as
wingers, though fit backs were avail-
able. There had been a lot of rough-
stuff in an earlier Engtend-N.S.W.
game (on June 5, won by N.S.W.
22-11), and in this July 10 game,
played in heavy rain on a mud-patch,
ill-feeling between the teams was
evident from the start. Referee
Oxford cautioned three England
players in the first half; soon after
(he interval English five-eighth Price
was sent-off, N.S.W. forward Bull
was cautioned a little later, and then,
after more fierce exchanges, an all-in
brawl developed. Oxford then
abandoned play, after 16min. in the
second half, with N s S.W. leading
17-6. The N.S.W. Rugby League
general committee held an inquiry,
at which the referee stated that the
Englishmen “had not been interested
in playing football.” For using
insulting language and refusing to
obey an order by the referee, Price
was suspended for five matches,
while three others (Englishmen
Traill and Burnell and N.S.W. centre
Wells) were “severely cautioned.”
(Australia won the third Test 20-16,
and thus the series. Oxford retired
as a referee shortly afterwards.)
Any literature or information on
rough-dressing of granite, tools
required, etc. ?
Granite is one of the hardest of
stones and requires skill and experi-
ence in dressing. Unless you wish
to go in for it as a business, it is
cheapest to have it done by a stone-
mason. For textbooks on the
subject, write for a list to Angus and
Robertson, Ltd., 66-68 Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne, stating your exact
requirements. If unable to obtain
what you need, write to the Public
Library of Victoria, Melbourne, for
information on the loan of suitable
books.
♦■♦ ♦ ♦
(1) How to grow mushrooms ? (2)
Where is any further information on
the growing of mushrooms obtain-
able ? (3) Information on the
Japanese method ?
(1) and (2) Any good seed-shop
will supply mushroom spawn (seed),
usually in the form of small bricks,
with a leaflet on growing mush-
rooms. They may be grown in
darkish sheds or outbuildings, in
beds of good soil enriched with
stable-manure. The spawn is
broken-up into small pieces, which
are inserted in the prepared beds;
the whole then kept moist, at •


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OE NEW
SOUTH WALES. —In Divokcb.
No. 2036 of 1957
TO JOHN MAXWELL BELL late of
Portland Road Wallerawang.—TAKE
NOTICE that CLARE AILEEN BELL
has filed a Petition for Divorce on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wLh to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry-
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 10th September 1957 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from HUNT & HUNT, Solicitors, of 15
Bligh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Tn~THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.—In Divorce.
No. 1861 of 1957
TO STANISLAS TRINAISTICH late of
7 Moore Park Road Paddington.—TAKE
NOTICE that OLIVA TRINAISTICH
has filed a Petition for Divorce on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under Section 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the lOt.h September 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from HUNT & HUNT. Soli-
citors, of IS Bligh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
RY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
JOHN WALKER l SONS LTD.
a s
BORN 1829 —STILL GOING STRONG
JOHNNIE
WAWKER
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland j
\ JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH /
A WHISKY DISTILLERS. OF KILMARNOCK. J A
i\ SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY. /J
JW.100.1 2
temperature of about 60-65 deg.
Fahr. Long beds may be pre-
pared in the open, but must be kept
dark and safe from storm-damage
with plenty of straw and probably
a hessian covering. Mushrooms are
stated to have little, if any, food-
value, and unless desired as a relish
or piquancy in cooking are scarcely
worth much trouble or expense.
The best ones are those gathered
in well-drained fields after heavy
rain, in spring or autumn. (3) No
reliable information available on
the Japanese method: experts are
sceptical of its success, owing to tne
expense of the materials and the
liability of the meal to fermentation,
2nd its attiaction for meal-moths.
If going in for this crop com-
mercially, consult the Department of
Agriculture in the capital city of
your State.
* * * *
Brief particulars of the cycling
career of Hubert Opperman ?
Born on May 29, 1904, at
Rochester (Vic.), “Oppy” i-> the
greatest cyclist Ausliaha has pro-
duced. Of slight build, weighing
10st., he had his first win at 17 ir.
a dub event, but was soon winning
much moie important * races. He
three limes (1924, 1926 and 1929),
fiom soratch each time, set fastesi-
time in the Warrnambool-Melbourne
load-race. In 1924, too, he won
the 131-mile Goulburn-Sydney race
by the phenomenal margin of 45min.
He was Austiahan road-champion
1924-26-27-29. in 1928, in Europe,
he rode very creditably, against
strong opposition, in all the classic
road-races; he won the 80l d’Or,
the 24-hour track-race, setting a new
mileage-record. In 1931 he won
the gruelling 726-mile Paris-Brest-
Paris race, which is- held only once
each decade. Opperman set innumer-
able world-records for both paced
and unpaced rides, many of which
still stand. In 1932, for instance,
he rode a motor-paced 500 miles in
12hrs. 54min. 50sec., and in ihe
same year 1000-miles motor-paced in
22hrs. 55min. 39sec. He rode 1000
miles unpaced in 28hrs. 55min. In
1927 he set a world’s unpaced recoid-
for 24hrs. (417 miles), bumping that
mileage up in 1939 to 505£ miles.
Some of the distance-records he set
—in 1938, Kalgoorlie to Perth (375
miles) in 19hrs. 18min.; 1938,
Adelaide-Melbourne, 475 miles,
26hrs. 15min.; 1938. Melbourne-
Sydney, 575 miles, 37hrs. 6min.;
1938, Adelaide-Sydney, 1040 miles,
2 days 18hrs. 16min.; 1937, Perth-
Sydney, 2739 miles, 13 days 9hrs.
22min. In 1940, after retiring, he
“came back” to break more than
100 track-records in a 24hr. ride
around Sydney Sports Arena. Turn-
ing to politics, Opperman in 1949
won the Corio seat in the Federal
Parliament for the Liberal party,
defeating the former Labor Minister
for Post-war Reconstruction J. J.
Dedman, and has held the seat at
each election since. He is Govern-
ment Whip in the House.
* * * *
Brief Answers
C.W.H.: Particulars of pastoralist
James Tyson appeared on the
Service page (B. 27 /10/’54) —copy
has been forwarded... .J. 8.:
Methods of dealing with cock-
roaches were given on the Service
page (B, 20/y/’s4)—copy also
posted... .A.P.L.: (1) or. Evatt
won the Balmain seat in the N.S.W.
Legislative Assenmiy in iv2s. At the
lwz/ election ne was reiused pre-
selection —along witn i. D. ivtutch,
E. A. Mcliernan and oiners—but
stood as an inuepenu-.nl, and won.
(2) Yes, it was me same Jock
Carden. (3) No —it's not done that
way. (4) More-or-less. (51 /vctuany
he doesn t beiieut at ail —tor mat
matter, the. Wen-are State has liuie
oi gam tor tne successiul and tne
thriny... .H.K.: ine newspaper
covering Tweed Heads (N.S.W.) was,
beiore July 1, known as the
“Tweed and South Coast Daily.”
Pubasned at Murwillumbah, the
paper changed its name on July 1
and is now known as the
“Daily News”... .J.E.: (1) “An
exaggeration is a trutn that has lost
its temper” is from Kahlil Gibran's
“Sand and Foam.” (2) "Back to
bis bounds their subject sea com-
mand, And roll ooedient rivers
through the land” is irom Pope:
“Epistle 4—to the Earl of Burling-
ton.” (3) Unable totrace. .. .R.W.G.:
Thanks for otter, but The Bulletin
already has its own bound copy of
those early issues.... A.G.8.: there
wouldn’t be any objection to your
doing 50....X.X. : (1) Average
monthly maximum temperatures (98
years) in Sydney are as loilows:
Jan., 78.2; Feb., 77.7; Mar., 75.9;
April, 71.6; May, 66.0; June, 61.5;
July, 60.2; Aug., 63.2; Sept., 67.2;
Oct., 71.3; Nov., 74.3; Dec., 77.0.
(2) Contact the Deputy Director,
Bureau of Meteorology, Queensland
Divisional Office, Brisbane. (3)
Lowest barometer-reading ever
recorded was 887mb. (26.193 in.) in
the Pacific Ocean near the
(lnformation supplied
by the Acting Deputy Director,
N.S.W. Divisional Office, Common-
wealth Bureau of Meteorology.)....
J.R.T.: (1) The £lO,OOO should be
enough, in most cases; it would
depend largely on the property itself
-—improvements needed, etc. (2)
and (3) Consult Dalgety and Co.,
Ltd., 15 Bent-street, Sydney, or the
A.M.P. Society, 87 Pitt-street,
Sydney... .E.: The first British
Military Service Act was passed
early in 1916; it brought into opera-
tion machinery which sifted the
nation’s manhood and represented
the real beginnings of conscription
foi the- British Army. In 1915 a
lecruiting service directed by Lord
Derby had been introduced based on
a modified form of conscription
R.S.: (1) Piers Plowman, rendered
into modern English by Donald and
Rachel Attwater, has recently been
published in an Everyman edition.
(23 Write Angus and Robertson, 89
Castlereagh - street, Sydney....
H.P.G.C.: The Minister for
National Development, Senator
Spooner, in introducing the Hous-
ing Agreement Act 1956 in the
Senate, stated that the new agree-
ment (to run for five years from
July 1, 1956) contemplated the pro-
vision of housing moneys in two
categories. Most of it would be
made available to the States to
implement the particular housing
policy preferred by each State; the
remainder to be paid to the credit
of a home-builders’ account in each
Slate to encourage home-ownership.
Each home-builders’ account, the
Senator stated, was to operate as a
revolving fund, and from it advances
would be made to building-societies
and other approved institutions. By
this means it was hoped to increase
the number of homes built for
private ownership... .M.McL.: (1)
Probably the great English
philosopher Herbert Spencer (1820-
1903). (2) “Suffering brings
experience” from Asschylus’
“Agamemnon” (quoted in Benham’s
Book of Quotations) —is the closest
*o it. (3) Columbia University is in
New York City....S.E. (Eltham,
Vic.): Before any corrections can
be made, you will have to name
the issues in which appear the
Service Department replies which,
you say, contain errors. A close
check of the Service page in the
past half-dozen issues did not reveal
anything on any of the subjects to
which you take exception in your
undated letter A.D.S.: (1)
Unable to trace. (2) According to
the Australian Encyclopaedia,
artesian-water was first discovered in
1879 at Kallara station in north-west
N.S.W. (3) Write Angus and
Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney... .H.J.8.: (I) Exact origin
is unknown. The cavy is believed
to have come in the first place
from South America, hence some
authorities think the name derives
from Guiana. However, the Shorter
Oxford English Dictionary says con-
fusion with Guiana seems unlikely.
Webster's thinks it may have come
fiom Guineamen, who are believed
to have introduced the cavy to
Europe. (2) The Shorter Oxford
Paces it to a story of 1621 about a
cock and a bull—“a long, rambling,
idle story”... G. 8.: King O'Malley
died in Melbourne on Dec. 20,
1953, aged 99 years. As Minister
lor Home Affairs (1910-13) he was
responsible for the foundation in
1911 of the Commonwealth Bank.
He also moved the motion to
secure land for the Federal capital
at Canberra, and called for designs
for the city.... R.L.: Write Queens-
land Conservatorium of Music,
Vulture-street, Brisbane... .J.G.:
The origin of the kelpie was
answered in Information Sought (B.
21/3/’56) and again in Brief
Answers last week (B. 26/6/’57)....
J.t.: Write Genealogical Society of
Australia, 91a Phillip-street, Sydney.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
CANADA'S CHANGE
/'YN two points at least
press-comment is pretty
well unanimous on the reasons
for the unexpected defeat of
Canada’s St. Laurent (Liberal)
Government and for the Con-
servatives (under John Diefen-
baker) more than doubling their
strength to a total of 110.
Several papers recall Mr.
Truman’s unexpected (by
public-opinion pollsters any-
way) victory in 1948 and attri-
bute something of Truman's
energetic campaigning to
Diefenbaker. London “Daily
Telegraph” comments that
“not since Mr Truman won the
1948 Presidential campaign
has an election result so com-
pletely defied expectations,”
while London “Daily Mail”
adds that “Mr. Diefenbaker has
‘done a Truman,’ as he said he
would”:
“He went out and spoke to
the people, as Truman did. He
made a barnstorming tour and
upset every prediction.”
The second point would seem
to be an expression of that
allegedly Irish maxim: “Never
vote to keep a Government in
power.” St. Laurent’s Liberals
had ruled uninterrupted for 22
years, and “New York Times'’
notes that “it is apparent that
many voters of normally
Liberal persuasion did feel that
the Government had been in
power so long that it had
indeed become separated from
the people ; that with its steam-
roller majority it had given
evidence of some contempt for
normal Parliamentary pro-
cedures ; that for their own and
Canada’s good the Liberals
needed not so much a defeat
as a strengthening of the
Opposition to preserve a vital,
two-party Government.
“The pendulum swung much
further than expected ; instead
of cutting down the Liberal
majority just enough to chastise
the party, the voters cut it
down so far as to throw the
party out.”
Or, as London “Economist”
nicely sums-up a good deal of
British opinion, they (the
Liberals) “exuded an air of
established legitimism which
made many Canadians itch to
put them in their place. And
that, to the electorate’s own
surprise, has been done.”
To those general reasons,
London “Financial Times”
adds several “specific causes”:
“The case of Mr. Norman,
the Canadian Ambassador to
Cairo who committed suicide
after American Congressional
allegations of a Communist
record, damaged the position of
the Canadian Government.
Anti-American feeling grew
stronger in Canada while the
election campaign was being
fought, and it undoubtedly
told against the Government.
“Apart from any political
considerations and many
Canadians resented the
American and indeed the
Canadian stand on Suez—
there were economic problems.
The Canadian farmers dislike
London “New Statesman”
“MY BOMB IS CLEANER THAN YOURS ”
the American farm price-
support programme and make
accusations of dumping. Most
Canadians are concerned about
the predominance of American
investment capital in Canadian
development.”
Commenting further on the
Canadian stand on Suez,
London “Time and Tide” notes
that “there was far less support
for y the [Canadian] Govern-
ment’s view of the Suez crisis
than, at the time, either TVIr.
St. Laurent or Mr. Pearson
[Secretary of State for External
Affairs] showed any indication
of realising. The volume of
letters and messages of
encouragement, from people
all over Canada that reached
British supporters of the
British Government, showed a
revulsion against Ottawa’s
attitude of injured and ostenta-
tiously disapproving neutrality
which ought to have given a
clear warning.”
Commenting on possible
international repercussions of
the change in government,
London “Economist” attributes
a “unique international posi-
tion” to Canada since the war:
“A keystone in the North
Atlantic bridge, it has also
helped to ease tensions between
the West as a whole and those
Asian and African countries
that suspect both European
colonialism and the new power
of the United States.”
While there is no reason to
suppose that Mr. Diefenbaker
would wish to change Canada’s
position as “an unusually con-
structive contributor to the
world's council s,” the
“Economist” suggests that
his Government will
“depend on too narrow a
Parliamentary lead to permit
any bold steps in international
affairs, or indeed much atten-
tion to them. And the Govern-
ment of the next few months
will be a wry-necked one, con-
stantly glancing over its
shoulder at its uncertain
supporters.”
Canadian diplomacy, the
“Economist” concludes, “looks
like being disabled at a time
when it is sorely needed ; and
nobody can tell how long it
will be before constructive
initiatives and forceful long-
term policies can again be
expected from Ottawa. Such
an interregnum may bring
home to the Commonwealth,
the West, and indeed the free
world as a whole how much
they have come to depend on
Canada’s mastery of its new
role. It will be a salutary lesson
—but a painful one.”
Formosa—Two Views
Further British press-
comment on Formosa includes
two differing letters in London
“Daily Telegraph,” the first
agreeing largely with the views
of British M.P. William Teel-
ing, published in London
“Time and Tide” (quoted here
B. 15/5/’57), and the second
discounting Chiang Kai-shek’s
administration of the island
and his chances of returning to
the Chinese mainland.
The first letter is the “report
on an intensive 10-day tour of
Formosa made by the first (un-
official) group [headed by Sir
Alwyne Ogden] to visit the
10-million Chinese under
President Chiang Kai-shek”:
“It is our belief that here is
a free and happy people and
the evidence of a resurgent
administration. We can con-
firm that they have undoubtedly
learned their lesson at least in
regard to the two most im-
portant problems over which
their administration on the
mainland collapsed.
“These are, first, the build-
ing-up of armed forces suitable
for the task they will have to
perform, and, second, the land
question.
“The former is most striking,
especially to those who saw the
failure of their war-time efforts
to train a modern army and,
still more, when Japan had
been defeated, to keep its
numbers up by press-gang
methods and adapt it to the
civil war.
“So far from being an ‘ageing’
force, as is frequently alleged,
a call-up system, very similar
to that in force in this country
[Britain], keeps the average age
at 25. We were much im-
pressed, both on the ships and


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS, G. GORDON RUSSELL,
A. MURRAY JONES.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
IXL
This World Famous Brand b
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers o/s—•
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies :■ —
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
training-school we visited at the
naval base and on Quemoy, the
island a mile away from the
mainland, by the general air
of youth, keenness and cairn
and confident efficiency we met
with.
“On the land Sun Yat-sen’s
‘land-to-the-tiller’ doctrine has
been put into effect with inspir-
ing success. Briefly this is to
redistribute the land, allowing
to each farmer no more than
he can till with his own efforts,
at a reasonable rent, after pay-
ing which he keeps all profits.
Previous landlords (instead of
being ‘liquidated’) are allowed
to keep a similar portion of
their land if they wish and
are compensated with shares in
public enterprises for the rest.
“Everywhere we saw new
brick-built houses in this fertile
land of three or more crops a
year; the population look
prosperous; village girls had
their hair permed and use
cosmetics. The health services
—partly as the result of the
Japanese policy of forbidding
higher education except in
medicine to Formosans—are
the happiest example of co-
operation between a Govern-
ment and its people. It is
claimed that malaria, cholera
and smallpox are being brought
under control, and tuberculosis
is being treated by most
modern methods.
“It is true enough that behind
all these activities stands the
American dollar - aid ; but
Formosa is not unique in this,
and there can hardly be a
country where it is being more
wisely and unobtrusively
administered.
“A British merchant long
resident in Formosa reports:
‘ln 1949 few people would
credit that this regime had the
will to work and fight back....
they have greatly surprised
their critics.’ He also writes
that in his old age Chiang Kai-
shek has become a wise and
efficient ruler, held in respect
and even affection throughout
the country. To this we would
add that he (Chiang) is, at IQ,
as vigorous and alert as he
appeared to those of us who
saw him 30 years ago.
“The President and other
responsible officials assured us
that British trading interests
will be restored when they
return to the mainland. There
can be no doubt of the genuine-
ness of their welcome for our
visit.
“ ‘See you on the mainland,’
is universal in Formosa as a
parting phrase. There is no
doubt they believe it. For our
part —not being crystal-gazers
—we will not speculate as to
when and how they will achieve
this; but we feel —especially
those of us who have lived long
years in China and have seen
how suddenly regimes come
and go (including one previous
Communist one) —that it is
inevitable that the Chinese
people at some not very distant
date will discard the unnatural
and sterile doctrines of Com-
munism and again be governed
by men of the type who now
administer the island.
“It would therefore seem to
be only common sense for us
[Britain] to maintain and
extend our relations with
them.”
Disagreeing with much of the
foregoing comment, Dyffryn
Thomas writes that, “before
evaluating developments in
Taiwan [Formosa], it must be
understood as a fundamental
that the inhabitants are
Taiwanese, with a strong
Japanese affiliation over a very
long period, and are not
Chinese”:
“The 9|-million local people
regard Chiang’s half-million
soldiers as a collective cuckoo
in the formerly comfortable
Taiwan nest, and they resent
the intruder’s presence. To this
day there is constant friction
between military Government
and the civil Taiwanese Pro-
vincial Government.
“The land-reform was some-
thing of a failure, in that
nominal compensation only
was given to deprived owners.
The new recipients then offered
their land back to the original
owners, or to other buyers, at
a figure inflated several times
above the compensation figure.
Thus turmer owners often saw
their old land, for which they
had been given * dollars, being
resold for as much as 10x
dollars.
“Chiang’s Army is maintained
in being by two unpopular
methods. Retirement, particu-
larly of officers, is virtually for-
bidden, and recruitment is by
conscripting Taiwanese, whose
length of service has no term
to it, and who are sent out in
disproportionate numbers to
garrison the offshore islands,
Pay being nominal, friends give
financial help to soldiers’
families.
“Nowhere in Taiwan, either
by natives or Chinese, have I
heard it expected that the
Nationalist Army can return to
fhe mainland other than by
courtesy of the Peking Govern-
°)cnt following a political deal,
Sir Alwyne s informants prob-
gave their greeting, ‘See
Y ou on . mainland, with
tongues in cheek,
“I agree that Taiwan is fairly
crime-free, comparatively
clean, with good rural housing,


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman ; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A, G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDOSf, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
efficient railways and fair
roads. However, it is not
Chiang who should be given
the credit for this, but the
Taiwanese Provincial Govern-
ment, who, despite the incur-
sion of Chiang’s unwanted
soldiers, have maintained the
old-established Japanese tradi-
tions of cleanliness and
efficiency.
“Taiwan has long been pros-
perous since it has the basic
economic advantage of being a
food-exporter, mainly to
Japan.”
The Last of the Spits
Commenting on the Spitfire’s
last operational flight for the
R A.F. and Air Ministry,
“Yorkshire Post” notes that
the “farewell flight took place
at Woodvale R.A.F. Station,
near Southport, where three
veteran Spitfires have been
used for meteorological flights
during the past six years”:
“So ends the career of a
machine that has written its
name across the skies of the
world —-and across the pages
of history.
“Though it served on many
fronts before the war was over,
the Spitfire will always be asso-
ciated in our minds and in those
of generations to come with
the Battle of Britain, when the
glorious Few overcame the
aerial hosts of Hitler. Later in
the war, when Spitfires were
sent to operate against the
enemy in Australian battle-
areas, Dr. Evatt, then Aus-
tralian Minister for External
Affairs, said what we all felt
about this remarkable fighter-
plane” :
“ ‘The Spitfire is more than
the name of an aircraft —it is
the epitome of some of the
greatest qualities of the British
race —their engineering genius,
their refusal to be satisfied with
anything less than the best, and
above all their dauntless
courage in the face of adver-
sity.’
“Today, as we salute the
passing of the machine which
did so much to smash Hitler’s
hopes of invading Britain, we
think with deep pride of the
men who flew the Spitfires in
Britain’s finest hour; we
think also with gratitude of the
brilliant designer of this air-
craft, the late R. J. Mitchell,
who did not live to see his
creation achieve immortality.”
The Marshall Plan
United States press tributes
to the Marshall Pian and its
effects:
New York “Herald Tribune”:
“Just 10 years ago, General
George Marshall, the Secretary
of State, made his momentous
speech at Harvard University
in which he offered the wealth
of this country [the U.S.] to
rebuild the war - ravaged
economies of Europe. Thus
was the Marshall Plan born.
But probably not even its far-
seeing author could have
London "Daily Express”
RETURNING THE COMPLIMENT
imagined the impact it would
have on the world.
“In three-and-a-half years,
$12,000 million was poured
into the exhausted arteries of
Western Europe. It is no exag-
geration to say that the extra-
ordinary recovery made by
those countries, and their
prosperity today, find their
roots firmly in the Marshall
Plan. Moreover, it gave vital
impetus to the growth of the
international European move-
ment, a movemerft which seems
more and more likely to assume
the responsibility for the
destinies of hundreds of
millions of people.”
* * *
“New York Times” editorial
comment: “The Marshall Plan
was not extemporaneous. Many
men had something to do in
drafting the root idea, among
them George F. Kennan, Dean
Acheson, Will Clayton and
Charles E. Bohlen. But the
Marshall Plan first appeared as
a deliberately described policy
in General Marshall’s Cam-
bridge [U.S.A.] speech.
“In’this speech the Secretary
of State, as he then was,
declared that ‘it is logical that
the United States should do
whatever it is able to do to
assist in the return of normal
economic health in the world,
without which there can be no
political stability and no
assured peace.’ He added: ‘Our
policy is directed not against
any country or any doctrine
but against poverty, despair
and chaos.’ It was not our
[America’s] fault that Moscow
rejected the proposal to
study a European recovery-
programme.”
* * *
C. L. Sulzberger in “New
York Times": “Europe is again
a vital force. Last year the
countries banded in the Organi-
sation for European Economic
Co-operation—ci'eated under
the Marshall Plan had an
average industrial production
74 per cent, greater than in
1939.
“Only because of this
renewed vigor has Western
Europe again become an im-
portant military and diplomatic
element. Without the Marshall
Plan there could have been no
Nato, because there would
have been no economic or
political base upon which to
erect the alliance. And with-
out Nato the Soviet expansive
thrust which extended to Berlin
and Czechoslovakia in 1948
might have pushed onward to
the English Channel.
“President Truman, Secretary
Marshall and his then deputy,
Dean Acheson, deserve vast
credit for the programme
bearing Marshall’s name. But
an Englishman, Ernest Bevin,
then Foreign Secretary, was
largely responsible for inspiring
the present O.E.E.C. countrigs
to make the most of oppor-
tunities we [the U.S.] offered
them.”
Wool Promotion
Bradford “Wool Record”
comment on the suggestion by
Mr. Ewen Waterman (former
chairman of the International
Wool Secretariat) that the levy
for wool promotion and pub-
licity should be increased from
4s. to £1 a bale—providing an
annual yield of about £5
million:
“‘No doubt the leaders of
the International Wool Pub-
licity and Research Fund, who
have been holding their annual
meeting in London, would
agree with him, for their
agenda contained projects for
widening the scope of activities
of the LW.S.
“Wool is in a strong position
at the moment, due largely to
full employment and high
income-levels in many parts of
the world. Wool producers—
and wool-textile manufacturers
too—should therefore be pre-
pared to contribute more to
promotion so as to ensure a


;
w
\
cK*f
VO
-
V
Ji
/V
All your
Banking
under one
roof
Modern facilities for all
It is sometimes more economical and always
more convenient to conduct all your banking
in the one office.
This Bank and its subsidiary, C.B.C. Savings
Bank Limited, offer you full banking facilities
'’under one roof."
Deposits in the C.B.C. Savings Bank
Limited are guaranteed by the parent
company.
The Bank's officers will be
glad fo fell you how its modern
facilities and services can help
you.
(3
m
NS
y-Sh
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
future no less bright than the
present.”
Britain and the Atom
London “Daily Mail” com-
ment on the report by the Sec-
retary-Genera! of U.N.O. (Mr.
Hammarskjoeld) that Canada
and the U.S. are at least eight
years behind Britain in the pro-
duction of cheap atomic
energy :
“Here Is the perfect answer
to those American Govern-
ment officials who, in an
attempt to spoil our market
for atomic power-stations, told
the Japanese that Calder Hall
was ‘cumbersome, expensive,
inefficient,’ and ‘plain amusing.’
“The report should especi-
ally please Sir Harold Caccia,
the British Ambassador to the
U.S., who, to his credit, has
been banging the drum for
Britain in Chicago.
“One part of the report
should give us concern. It is
that a grave shortage of tech-
nicians exists in Britain, France,
and America, but not Russia.
The West must makfe this good
—as it values the future.”
Various Voices
Vice-Admiral John Hughes •
Hallett, Conservative M.P.:
“Supposing a ban on nuclear
weapons was agreed upon, and
suppose it was enforced by
large numbers of United
Nations inspectors. Suppose
that all existing stocks of
nuclear weapons were de-
stroyed, and the factories in
which they are made were razed
to the ground. The knowledge
of how to make the bombs
would still remain, and in the
event of war a desperate race
would at once begin to get them
in production once again. The
truth is that the hydrogen-bomb
has been invented, and there is
no means by which it can be
uninvented.”
* * *
Prime Minister Macmillan :
“Mr. Gaitskell knows perfectly
well that nationalisation has not
proved a winner in the past. So
he has changed its name and
dressed it up in new colors. In
fact, it is what I believe is
called a ringer. Its pedigree
now reads: ‘By Stealth out of
Superannuation Funds, Cross-
man up.’ You know what
happens to owners and trainers
who try that soft of thing on
the Turf ; they get warned off.
If the British public are wise
they will warn these Socialist
politicians off too.”


i3Jn mwm dux
SANDERS
<#>FILE|
Correspondence, Invoices,
statements, etc., filed in the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference cct
the end of each month —or
any other period.
. iW.
Prices »nd f«P»
ther information
upou application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing AgenU —
MELBOURNE *1 » • Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE t ) , , Vardon Price Ltd.
PLKTH , | . Docket Beak Co. (Ault.)
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Insurance of Schoolchildren
In 1954 the Victorian
Government instituted a volun-
tary insurance - scheme for
schoolchildren. For a nominal
annual premium of 3s. 6d.,
cover to the extent of £5O a year
—later increased to £7s—was
available against accidents in-
curred either at school or during
the journey from or to a
pupil’s home.
While the scheme has been
operating at a loss (not to
the Government, incidentally:
it was underwritten by a private
insurance company), it is meet-
ing a very real need. Last
year’s claims totalled 11,500,
averaging £8 each a fairly
solid sum for parents to find,
and an indication of the high
cost of medical attention for
minor injuries, as most of
them were.
Surprisingly, only one-fifth
of the total accidents on which
claims were made took place
during travelling to and from
school ; playground and sport-
ing activities accounted for 70
per cent., and the remaining
10 per cent, occurred in
“classrooms and other build-
ings.” Claims on over 15
deaths arose from accidents
on the roads.
With a loss of £lB,OOO on
last year’s operations, and
costs still on the rise—claims
for the current year average
£9 17s. 6d. the annual
premium has been increased to
ss. It’s still a remarkably
sound investment for any
parent, as I have learnt through
costly experience. When the
scheme came into force we
omitted to insure our younger
lad at the start of the school
year. He promptly broke his
arm in a playground scrim-
mage. Result: a couple of
X-rays, plaster settings, and
sundry visits to the doctor’s
surgery, totalling something
like £10 —which could have
been saved by spending 3s. 6d.
In spite of the care and
supervision given by teachers,
schools are not completely safe
for children; neither are the
“Excuse me, mate, but I think the bloke behind you
Wants to see your ticket."
roads. Insurance along the
lines of the Victorian scheme
is within every parent’s means
and makes it certain that a
child will receive adequate
medical attention and, if neces-
sary, hospital treatment should
he need it.— Ardoyne (Vic.).
Expense and Expenses
As one who has suffered
financially under various
schemes for paying travelling-
expenses, including the deplor-
able scales of the Common-
wealth Public Service Board, I
believe that any system for
fixed payments, as in the case
of Federal Parliamentarians, is
unfair and likely to lead to
abuse.
Some members will
legitimately exceed the allotted
scales —even the new ones.
They are the enthusiasts who
entertain constituents regularly
in Parliament House, who
mingle with the newspapermen
in the House and with the
public in their hotels, and who
really do a good job of public-
relations for themselves and
their party. There aren’t too
many of them, but they will
continue to be out-of-pocket.
Most of them can probably
afford it, but that’s beside the
point. The balance includes
some extremely careful
characters who spend as little
as possible, either in the House
or outside it, and who try to
make a small profit on all the
perks, including the Canberra
living-allowance.
I resent as bitterly as any
other taxpayer the fact that
some members are using their
expense-sheets as “swindle-
sheets.” At the same time I
have a good deal of sympathy
with those who lose on
expenses. It is always a little
difficult to define where
legitimate expense ends and
self-indulgence begins, but it
would be far better for mem-
bers to keep a record of their
own expenses, and to submit
claims each month. This would
entail a little more work during
the 20 or so weeks they are in
Canberra each year, and it
would give a few officials some
more work in checking the
lists. Hotel-bills (receipted)
should be produced, and chits
signed jn the House for meals
and for entertainment —but not
ioi drinks in the exclusive
Members’ bar. Tips and any
other reasonable out-of-pocket
expenses should be included.
While one or two members
might be inclined to make a
welter of it, the general reaction
would be the submitting of
truthful and comparatively
small claims.
Members would howl at the
idea, but in view of the current
public indignation they should
be prepared to consider it. They
shouldn't take money to which
they are not entitled. They
should not be deprived of
money genuinely spent in the
exercise of their not-
unimportant duties. — Ex-Act
(N.S.W.).
American Big Business
“In the last 12 months I
have been conducting exten-
sive negotiations with American
big business, and I have never
struck such an inefficient gang
in my life. They Runt in packs
of five. You cannot do any-
thing unless you have an
attorney, vice - president
(finance), plus your treasurer,
plus your controller.” Thus
Sir Claud Gibb, speaking at
the Northern Counties branch
of the British Institute of
Directors, and quoted in the
English journal “Electrical
Times.”
It is a good thing somebody
has said that, and Sir Claud
Gibb is competent to say it.
He is head of the great Parsons
company, which last year
delivered over I,OOO,OOOkVA.
of generator-plant to customers
all over the world. Parsons
invented the steam-turbine. The
firm he founded has been in
the forefront of power-station
development ever since and
now looks likely to lead the
world in atomic power.
Sir Claud Gibb is an Aus-
tralian. He learned to think
straight, and to say what he
thinks, in Adelaide. It would
be interesting to have a com-
ment from him on big business
in Australia. He might notice
here symptoms of the disease
he found in America.
There is a lot of talking here
just now about management
efficiency, and a lot of inno-
cent people believe that all we
have to do is to apply American
methods (preferably with the
guidance of American manage-
ment-consultants) and we will
be right. This is a delusion.
American methods have grown
-out of America’s enormous
markets, unlimited cash
resources, and a business
philosophy very different from
our own. For Australian con-
ditions, we need our own
methods.
In Australia, the efficiency of


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 187 S.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Newcastle District Representative: L. J. Rochester, 3 Bolton Street.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Aecident Insurance at lowest rates-
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
our small and middling fac-
tories, in their best examples,
is second to none. Where there
is a good standard of intelli-
gence, health, physique and
resourcefulness at all levels, and
where the boss is an approach-
able human-being to the rank-
and-file, Australian factories
can and do produce top-class
goods at less than overseas
costs.
Let the factories grow, and
the executives multiply, and
the same people can add-up
to very average organisations.
The executives are the same
capable people, and are still
busy, but they get little done.
They fill-in their time not doing
the job, but applying manage-
ment techniques; each man's
main object is to avoid tres-
passing on another’s preserves.
In the interests of “functional
efficiency” the job bogs down.
(Exceptional firms that give
the lie to this argument include
some of the biggest in the
country, but the argument is
nonetheless true.)
With more and more Govern-
ment control of —or inter-
ference in our engineering
industries, engineers in our
larger undertakings are work-
ing in handcuffs; their own
accountants, or the Govern-
ments’, and their legal advisers,
are in control of their industries.
Engineers are spending more
time discussing their job than
in doing it.
If these handcuffs are to be
shaken off, we must hear less
of management - consultants
from America, and more of
achievement at home. — Kilo-
watt (Q.).
Joe Cahill—Financier
N. S. Wales Premier Cahill
will be a financial wizard if
he can fulfil his promise to
build a £3j-million opera-house
without disturbing the financial
arrangements for building
houses and other amenities in
his State. Even if he succeeds,
many people will ask why he
does not use the same method
of finance to buy cancer-units
for hospitals which are strug-
gling to get them through public
subscriptions, and also to
provide money to enable the
five teaching hospitals in Syd-
ney to carry out necessary
extension schemes.
Presumably Mr. Cahill
prefers the praise which a
section of the Sydney daily
press showers on him for his
“cultural” aspirations to the
thanks he wou-ld receive from
ordinary men and women for
providing them with the bread-
and-butter things of life.
The press and radio propa-
ganda-campaign for the build-
ing of the opera-house is
worthy of a better cause —there
are half-a-dozen other projects
that would confer a greater
benefit on mankind generally.
If the opera-house should ever
become a reality it will enter
the entertainment field just as
"I got obedience from the squadron and I expect
the same from you chaps .”
TV in Australia will be reach-
ing its peak. The building
might serve as a place in which
opera could be staged for TV
purposes, but it is extremely
doubtful that it will ever attract
sufficient public patronage to
pay working expenses.^ —M. F.
Dixon (N.S.W.).
Canberra’s Future
Ordinary Canberra citizens,
let alone those with “ultra-
patriotic” zeal, will be incensed
by G. Elburg’s criticism of
Canberra development (B.
19/6/’57).
To take a few examples:
“Where is Griffin’s civic
centre with its imposing orna-
mental lake?”
The civic centre is thgre, and
very imposing, too, with the
addition of blocks of modern
shops and offices and the
beginnings of a modern bank
and insurance buildings.
According to world-famous
town-planner Sir William Hoi-
ford there are virtues in
Griffin’s proposed lake scheme,
and it is not too late to go
ahead with some practical
version of the scheme now.
In the offing are two lofty
blocks of flats, seemingly buili
of flattened kerosene-tins.”
Nonsense! Two pleasantly
landscaped, ultra - modern,
three-story blocks containing
247 flats are completed. The
flats “in the offing” are an
eight-story block, of which
only the concrete shell is in
evidence, and another multi-
story block just started. None
of these looks like “flattened
kerosene-tins.”
“There is also the Federal
headquarters of the Australian
Labor Party—a long gal-
vanised-iron shed never treated
to a coat of paint since the day
of its erection.”
The A.L.P. has no Federal
headquarters its secretary
lives in Brisbane and its presi-
dent in Perth. The building in
question (it is a wooden struc-
ture with a galvanised-iron
roof) is the headquarters of the
A.C.T. Trades and Labor
Council.
“The mammoth administra-
tive offices which will have cost
as much as a Dreadnought or
two when completed.”
A Dreadnought or two
would cost something like £2O
million. The administra-
tive building will cost just
under £5 million.
“The crime-de-la-crime is
the 1400-house project at
Narrabundah 1400 grave
offences. These fibrolite shacks
are what one would expect to
find in a remote holiday fish-
ing-resort.”
There is no 1400-house pro-
ject at Narrabundah. There is
a group of 364 workmen's
cottages (10 years old) built of
wood and fibro-cement; there
is a group of 110 new timber-
frame houses. There are no
“fibrolite” houses.
“Parliament House is not
unpleasing and Queen’s Hall is
really fine.”
There is no Queen’s Hall
in Canberra; it’s King’s Hall.
“As to Canberra generally;
the Griffin Plan must be written
off.”
Sir William Holford, for
one, does not agree with that.
He sees that some fhodifica-
tions are necessary, but nothing
like scrapping. He sees Can-
berra as “one of the best ex-
perimental towns in the world,”
saying that no other town has
suspended a major plan for
so long, so that it could be
carried out in detail.
Sir William sees Canberra
with an ultimate population of
about 100,000, a garden city
and national capital combined.
Perhaps that won’t be too far
removed from Griffin’s imagi-
native ideas to make Canberra
one of the most beautiful


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever I juhj
Tms ?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each weak
inland capitals in the world.—
K.G. (A.C.T.).
Smoking and Cancer
There is not yet nearly
enough evidence —or, for that
matter, uniformity of medical
opinion—that smoking is a
cause of lung-cancer for the
Government to set up a special
research-programme as sug-
gested by “Weil Cured” (B.
1 / 5 / ’57).
The case is very definitely
“not proven” and at best a
partial correlation has been
shown to exist. A correlation,
although a valuable tool in the
hands of a scientist, does not
prove anything except perhaps
its own existence. It is a pointer
and nothing more.
It would be quite easy to
show the existence of a similar
relationship between the inci-
dence of cancer and the increas-
ing use of aluminium
cooking-ware or even electric-
light. In fact there are still a
few diehards who won’t use
aluminium because of this risk.
Of much greater significance
at the moment is the announce-
ment by some American
researchers of the results of an
experiment involving the injec-
tions of living cancer cells into
human volunteers. Healthy
(non - cancerous) volunteers
were selected and each received
an injection of living cancer
cells under the skin. At the
same time some patients
already suffering from the
disease were given a similar
injection. After some weeks
had elapsed it was found that
the cancer cells had disappeared
fiom the healthy volunteers,
while they developed in the
volunteers where cancer was
already present. Further, a
second injection into the
“Nothing Wrong with the streamlining !”
healthy men was destroyed
more quickly than the first.
The inference drawn from
this experiment is that in the
healthy body the blood con-
tains a substance (call it “anti-
body”) capable of preventing
growth and development of
cancer cells. Also the more
rapid destruction of the second
injection suggests that the
presence of cancer cells stimu-
lates the production of more
“antibody.” In the case of the
volunteers already suffering
from the disease, it may be that
certain individuals are unable
to develop the necessary
“antibody.”
There is nothing definite in
all this yet, but it has certainly
progressed a long way beyond
the correlation stage. If the
Government ever has any funds
available for cancer-research,
here is a project that seems
reallv worth while. — Jackpot
(N.SiW.).
Young Joyriders
A conscientious and informa-
tive report on car-thefts, pre-
pared by Inspector Banks, Chief
of the Victorian Police
Information Bureau and his
staff, emphasises in its simple
statistics the injustices that
would follow if the advice of
the put-’em-all-in-quod advo-
cates were carried out.
It also underlines the burdens
on magistrates in dealing with
a growing minor crime which
they wish to check without
leaving unnecessary scars.
In the first place, 53 per cent,
of car-thieves were under 17
years and 31 per cent, between
17 and 20. Ten per cent, were
between 21 and 24 and only six
per cent, older. There is a
marked reluctance in Victoria
to start youths off on jail
careers, and only an excep-
tional case of joyriding results
in imprisonment for a first
offender.
The Police Bureau’s report,
based, of course, on what the
offenders who were caught
admitted (since most were not
apprehended), shows that 81 per
cent, of stolen cars were used
for joyriding ; eight per cent,
for stripping ; six per cent, for
use in committing another
crime. The remaining five per
cent, had been pushed from
their position in a vain effort
to start them (this comes within
the definition of “illegal use”).
It is illegal use of a car, or
attempted illegal use, to push
it, and there have been cases
in which persons who could not
drive have been convicted of
illegal use merely for sitting
in them.
The bureau divided the 81
per cent, taken by joyriders
into 45 per cent, taken on
impulse ; 21 per cent, for a
definite journey; 9 per cent,
for transport home (particu-
larly on rainy nights); three
per cent, to go to entertain-
ment and three per cent, for
speed. One-third of the cars
were either damaged or had
some property (usually a torch
or gloves) stolen from them. A
Looking-out for cars reported
missing is a substantial and
expensive part of police-work
at night, and police are
naturally discouraged when
first offenders are given bonds
or incur small fines. They
accept court decisions on these
lines with, of course, more
composure than owners whose
cars have been damaged,
although the behavior of the
offender with the car is in-
variably taken into account by
the court,
The responsible, and usually
enlightened, men who sit as
stipendiary magistrates are
experienced in meting-out
justice as precisely as they can,
with a special clemency for
youth. They are not likely to
be stampeded into ordering
imprisonment for all illegal
car-users, though they can be
relied on to see that the
“strippers,” proven criminals
and persistent offenders get
their deserts,
As to the young joyriders—
more substantial fines might
have a more salutary effect, and
time to pay them would also
provide additional ' time for
smarting reflection. —S.Y. S.
(Vic.).
How to prolong
the prime of life
Instead of regarding old age as
a sad dragging out of existence,
there is today chemical hope that
for many men and women it can
be a period of active, productive
life.
In July Reader’s Digest Paul de
Kruif tells you how amazing dis-
coveries in nutrition are helping
to ward off the processes of age-
ing, which may begin long before
you are old in years.
In your July Reader’s Digest
there are 29 absorbing articles of
lasting interest, including You
can learn to see more, Why many
are cold but few are frozen and
How soon the next ship disaster?
Read and enjoy July Reader’s
Digest, on sale now for only 2/-
at all newsagents and bookstalls.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.- — In Divorce.
TO NOEL ERIC SANDELL late .of
Wflllerawang, New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that VEENA JUNE
SANDELL has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1422 of 1957 on the
ground of habitual drunkenness and
cruelty and habitual drunkenness and
leaving without the means of support
during three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by. the 10th
day of September 1957 and obtain a
copv of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. ROBERTSON PARK-
HTT.L ROFE ft MOFFITT, Solicitors.
79-81 Pitt Street. Svdnev. in the said
State.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80*82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
VENDETTA’S SURRENDER
By BRUCE HARDING
WILL the recently launched
H.M.A.S. Vendetta, with
all mod.-cons. and a bellyful of
electronic gadgets, have such
a nose for adventure as the
unpretty old sea-fighter which
previously bore that provoca-
tive name?
One of the famous five which
earned the title “Scrap-iron
Flotilla” from Dr. Goebbels
himself, Vendetta’s name was
known throughout the three
Services. Later, she escaped
from Singapore with most of
her innards and her main arma-
ments out of action and sur-
vived a fighting tow to
Fremantle. She remained in
the fight to the end, and it was
at the obsequies of General
Hitoshi Imamura’s once-
mighty South-eastern Army
that she fittingly performed a
solo piece in the overture.
Then, by way of a finale, she
cut loose with an unplanned
episode that resulted in the
recovery of all 28 Allied
prisoners held at Rabaul.
At 0100 hours on September
4, 1945, Vendetta cleared
Jacquinot Bay (New Britain)
carrying Brigadier E. L.
Sheehan, General Staff, First
Australian Army, as the per-
sonal representative of the
Army commander, Lieutenant-
General V. A. H. Sturdee.
Sheehan carried instructions to
meet Imamura’s emissaries off
Rabaul at noon that day, and
shortly before that time
Vendetta closed in shorewards
at a point slightly north of the
entrance to Simpson Harbor.
Arranged by radio, the meeting
went off according to plan,
except that the Japanese launch
which brought the party out
smashed into the wooden stair-
way which Vendetta had
lowered for them to come
aboard. Drenched with spray,
the Nips had to swarm up the
side and clamber through the
deck-ropes.
Once aboard, they were
relieved of their swords and
dirks, and the chief representa-
tives —a colonel for the Army
and a captain for the Navy —
stalked wetly astern and saluted
the White Ensign. Brigadier
Sheehan then told them of the
surrender arrangements, and
instructed them to carry into
effect without delay the provi-
sions of the Emperor’s
proclamation accepting the
Allied terms, the instrument of
surrender already signed in
Tokyo, and the surrender order
sent by the Japanese Govern-
ment to all its forces in the
field. The Japs then provided
certain information regarding
their strengths (in every case,
greatly in excess of our
estimates) and stated that they
held 28 Allied prisoners-of-war
at Rabaul. Among them were
Captain V. J. Murphy, A.1.F.,
and Gordon Thomas, former
editor of “The Rabaul Times.”
Before the party left, an hour
later, their official interpreter
approached Vendetta’s officer
of the watch and asked for a
seasickness tablet. The officer,
Lieutenant J. J. Dolan, replied
“We don’t stock ’em. Get rid
of it over the side! ” The
interpreter took one long,
agonised look at the sea —and
followed Dolan’s advice.
So much for the overture.
The Big Show itself took
place on the flight-deck of
H.M.S. Glory on the 6th, in St.
George’s Channel about 60
miles s.-s.-e. of Rabaul, and
while Imamura and Vice-
Admiral Jan Ichi Kusaka were
signing the Instrument of Sur-
render, Vendetta, as part of
Task Force 111.5,. had the job
of escort to a number of small
H.M.A. ships which were to
clear a path through the mine-
fields for the force from the
11th Australian Division which
■would occupy Rabaul.
News that the surrender had
been signed reached Vendetta
at noon, and by nightfall a
channel had been cleared right
into Simpson Harbor. The
Japanese garrison were then
treated to the sight of Vendetta
running right inside and drop-
ping anchor. The Naval
Officer-in-Charge, New Guinea,
Captain F, Bryce Morris,
immediately radioed for a
representative to come to the
ship to discuss with him “an
important matter.”
For a while nothing
happened ; then two Japanese
staff-officers put out in a
launch from Toboi Wharf and
came aboard. They were stag-
gered when, without preamble,
Morris ordered that the 28
Allied prisoners be ready for
evacuation next morning. The
officers were displeased, saying
that under the surrender terms
they were not obliged to hand
over anybody until the occupa-
tion force arrived on the tenth.
Morris simply, and even more
firmly, repeated his order, how-
ever, and hustled the Japs
ashore.
Next morning, Captain
Morris, accompanied by his
secretary, Lieutenant Hand-
cock, landed unarmed at the
wharf. Some Japanese officers
were waiting, and in a ragged
line behind them stood eight
of the prisoners. Ignoring the
Japanese, Morris' started
towards the group. The Nips
closed in on him. He pushed
them aside.
“I’m giving the orders around
here, now,” he said. “And I
want no nonsense! ”
“It’s grand to see the Navy! ”
yelled an English voice, and in
a second the two officers, sur-
rounded by the almost
unbelieving prisoners, were
handing over their cigarettes
and trying to make sense out
of the bedlam of English,
Dutch and Yank voices.
Morris then had the eight
transferred to motor-launch
808 for their first decent meal
in years, and just after he had
ejected a party of very
surprised staff-officers from a
passing car to make a tour of
the town, two trucks arrived
carrying the remaining 20
prisoners. Their greetings were
even more noisy, and it wasn’t
long before they, too, were
enjoying the best of fare that
m.-l. 808 could offer.
While they ate, Morris made
a valuable —but depressing—•
reconnaissance of the ruins that
were once Rabaul.
At noon, all 28 men went
aboard Vendetta and she had
them all safety bedded-down in
hospital at Jacquinot Bay by
eight-o’clock that night, some-
what sooner than envisaged.
There was a lively celebration
in the wardroom afterwards,
and the old girl seemed to purr
with the pleasure of it all. In
a way, it was Vendetta’s
surrender.


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony ©/ Hong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £19,800,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 o‘Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 813 1 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL Manager.
THE MA N ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
LAND POPULATION
OINCE 1940 there has been a
steady decline in the per-
centage of the population
working on the land. Australia
is so dependent on primary
production that any action,
national or individual, that can
be taken to check this tendency
is worthy of close scrutiny.
Our growing population will
b a ve to be fed, and, apart from
our traditional markets, any
considerable surplus will prob-
ably be sold to our Near East,
as the living-standards of our
Asiatic neighbors improve.
This is a long-range view, but,
to my mind, a realistic one.
I was brought up in the
country and I have spent most
of my professional life, includ-
ing quite a few years as a bank-
manager, in rural areas. I feel
I can back my opinions with a
good deal of experience,
business and personal. I have,
too, the special interest in the
subject of a man past middle-
age who still feels a yearning
for life on the land.
Why, then, did I leave it?
Sheep have not always
been shorn. It is
believed that origin-
ally they were
plucked for their
wool. Research has
set the date when the
first shearing blades
were used at about
1000 B.C. With the
introduction of
modern shearing
machines and shear-
ing tables sheep rais-
ing today employs
highly efficient
methods—one of out-
standing merit being
the Elastrator Rubber
Ring system for mark-
ing and tailing lambs.
This is a system
which, compared with
cruder methods, has
resulted in a marked
reduction of losses
and better protection
against setback, fly-
strike and other
diseases.
There were two major reasons.
Conditions were hard, and on a
small property, with a number
of brothers and sisters, it
looked as though my parents
would be unable to do much
for me’ The other factor was
that my parents did not present
the alternatives to me: tne
choice between two ways of
life, with their different
problems and compensations.
It is important that parents
see these alternatives clearly,
and present them to their
children; it is most important
that people on the land do so,
for, any way you look at it,
men brought up on the land are
most likely to be successful on
it
Apart from the practical,
financial difficulty of a young
man from the city getting
established on the land today
(whereas a young man whose
father is a grazier can usually
arrange to buy part, or all, his
father’s property, gradually),
early intimacy with the land
and its problems gives a basis
of knowledge which can mean
the difference between success
and failure.
Often, of course, the basis
remains no more than that.
Here, again, parents can help
by encouraging the youngsters
to learn as much as they can
about scientific techniques, and,
within reason, applying some
of them to the family property.
It’s a human tendency for
parents to resist learning from
their children.
What the practical farmer or
grazier is apt to forget when his
son comes back from an agri-
cultural school or college with
some new idea is that his son
is the medium, not the origin-
ator ; the idea itself has prob-
ably been thoroughly tested by
scientists and practical farmers
before it was passed on to the
lad as a piece of accepted
knowledge. There is no com-
parison between the father and
the son as practical managers.
But if every new idea is
rejected by the father, the son
will feel frustrated and go else-
where to make his own way.
It’s likely that he will leave the
land altogether.
There’s a lingering inferiority
complex, the heritage of early
struggles, concerning life on the
land. It’s important that
parents, schools and agri-
cultural training-centres should
do everything possible to get
rid of it. The prime intention
should be to create in the
minds of boys and girls the idea
that living on the land is one
of the most useful and satisfy-
ing things a human can do. It
should be understood, too, just
how important the primary-
producer is in the economic
set-up.
But this is only one aspect of
life on the land. There, are
other values, and young people
are unlikely to appreciate them
if they are not pointed out-
after all, they have no standards
of comparison. Life on the
land is less artificial than city
life, and it is, in many ways,
an independent life. Compare
it with any number of occupa-
tions and one finds that even
the more attractive of these
involve a degree of subordina-
tion, of conformity, which the
landowner does not know.
One does not have to go to
extremes —struggles of con-
science and the like —to find
examples of this sort of thing.
In many business activities it
is necessary for individuals to
co-operate with others, to obey
orders, to implement decisions
with which they do not agree,
simply in order that large
organisations can work.
The landholder can be
independent in his opinions and
can voice them without fear of
losing a customer, a valuable
contact, or violating some
principle of policy. He depends
for his progress not on the
goodwill or whims of others
but on Nature, the rainfall, the
richness or poverty of his
land, and his own skill and
force in harnessing or, if
necessary, curbing these
phenomena. A nobler struggle.
But I doubt very much
whether young men and women
see these things. They see,
rather, the glitter of a city in
a holiday mood, the well-
dressed businessmen and the
pleasant side of life as it is
lived in the city. Naturally—
since they are young—they
don’t see the other side of the
picture the less-successful
city people. Youth does not
identify itself with failure, and
it is right and proper that it
should not. But it is next to
impossible for the average boy
or girl from the country to
appreciate the hidden worries
and frustrations of apparently-
successful city folk. Here wise
parental guidance can help a
lot
The day is gone when parents


The KEROSINE
used by the
ANTARCTIC EXPEDITION
< <?' •< , <•
®siiiii in,
hmM
-m
mmm
**** Kt*o&»
7
/
c
m
CORAUTE
burns WARMER,
CLEANER, BETTER
1
HNJJI
* It’s easier—and there's
a saving if you bring your
own container.
You can buy* Coralite
Kerosine by the tin where
you see these pumps .
SUPER
ALSO OBTAINABLE AT SELECTED STORES,
C.O.R AGENTS AND DEPOTS
Marketed by THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. an associate <t»
The British Petroleum Company Ltd CSIBW
can expect their sons and
daughters to stay at home and
work for nothing. Pocket-
money—even generous pocket-
money—isn’t the same as
wages ; or, better still, a share
or percentage of the profits of
the property. The share can
start quite early, and need
not be large. It should be
worked out on a businesslike
basis, and be scrupulously fair.
Such a scheme will develop
initiative and judgment in the
young people, and make them
feel they have a definite place in
the family councils. There are
many other advantages in such
a scheme, which can be readily
explained by a landholder’s
solicitor or bank-manager. And
the commercial world offers
young people relatively high
wages and an illusion of
independence. It is all very
well for parents to say “the
place will belong to the boys”
—or girls, as the case may be
“one day why shouldn’t
they stay and lend a hand?”
The sons or daughters need
to feel that they have a definite
status and responsibility, and
leasonable immediate reward.
Initiative should be encouraged.
Parents should make pro-
vision for the day when a son
marries, so that he can have a
property of his own, either
detached from the main
property or by some other
arrangement. What is more,
the son should know that this
provision has been made.
Nowadays there is a wealth
of technical information on
land matters. Children should
be encouraged to draw on the
knowledge available, to discuss
it, and to experiment. They
should also be encouraged to
take part in local activities,
sporting bodies, youth organisa-
tions, and the like, and so learn
to take their part in what is,
after all, a fairly closely-knit
community.
Country communities,
through shire - councils,
hospital-committees, bushfire-
brigades, pasture - protection
boards and the like are more
truly and directly self-govern-
ing than are city communities,
so the sooner young people
learn to take their part in
group-activities the better.
Social life in the country can
be very pleasant, and when a
boy or girl begins to feel he or
she is part of it the temptation
to earn a living elsewhere
weakens considerably. There
are all sorts of angles to direct-
ing the restlessness and initia-
tive of youth into life on the
land. For instance, encourage
the youngsters to keep a horse,
even if there is no need for
one. Most places can feed a
spare horse or two, and the fun
of owning a horse and riding
it for pleasure is one of the
aspects of country life that
shouldn’t be forgotten in this
age of mechanisation.
Obviously, there are many
aspects I haven’t touched which
contribute to the enjoyment of
life on the land. It does no
harm to talk about them now
and again — in fact, to
appreciate them.
The dominant thought
should be kept in mind that
young men and women reared
on the land are our best settlers.
C. B. M.
Silage
“R.”: With modern
machinery, conservation of
surplus fodder is just another
job. It’s a far cry from the old
way of cocking and stacking
hay to the modern hay-baler.
Not only is the bale easier to
handle, but there’s less loss
than when the hay is stacked
loose.
But hay is not always the
answer. It’s true that it can be
easily stored, but the wastage
can be great. Fires make short
work of it, and rodents can
mess-up a stack in no time.
That’s where silage comes
in. It’s safe from fires, and
rats steer clear of it.
In the past, silage was made
from sorghum and maize. The
crop was cut and chaffed and
stored underground, or in over-
head silos. It was grown
specially for the purpose, and
had to be cut at the right time.
But there are times when
there is more feed about than
the stock can eat. In a good
season pastures run wild and
go to waste. Cattle can’t eat
crops down as fast as they
grow, and a lot of palatable
fodder is trampled into the
ground and spoilt.
This is the sort of thing
that bumps-up farm-costs,
because the time comes when
that wasted food is wanted —-
sometimes badly. Anything
that’s wasted on a farm runs
away with money.
The new idea of farm-
management makes use of this
surplus. It’s nothing new,
really, but it wasn’t always
possible until the right kind of
machinery came along.
With the various kinds of
forage-harvesters and buck-
rakes available, the farmer
has been able to ensile this
excess with minimum assis-
tance.
The silage is generally con-
served in a trench. For short-
time conservation, the above-
ground bun- or wedge-silo is


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Sulscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to ‘‘The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS .
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
”The Bulletin” or any news
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £B/18/6 Foreign ....
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
£3/6/-
useful, although the waste is
higher with these than with a
carefully-made trench. The
former are mostly fed-out
within a matter of months. The
trench will keep for years.
There is no hard-and-fast
rule about the size of the bun
or wedge, but it’s not often
they are built over 6ft. high,
Most farmers find it’s better
to have several, rather than
one very big stack.
The secret of all silage-
making is consolidation ; that
is, provided the crop is cut at
the right time. Consolidation
expels the air from the material
and prevents overheating. The
ideal temperature of the mass
should be around the 100
degrees F. mark. This is the
temperature at which the lactic-
acid bacteria work best, and
if you want first-class silage,
they are the ones to encourage,
Consolidation in the bun or
wedge is obtained by stacking
well and allowing the heap to
settle. It’s surprising how
much the material will sink
and compress.
This is followed-up by
running the tractor back and
forth across the mound until
the whole is pressed firmly
down. The tractor-wheels ‘will
cause the surface to become
slippery and shiny like new
lino. This will help to
encourage an air-tight surface
that will prevent air from
getting in.
It is still necessary to finally
seal-off the mound. A layer
of from 6in. to Bin. of dirt is
one way of doing the job. With
modern earth-scoops and a
tractor, it’s not a hard task to
put the dirt on, but it s a.
different matter to take it off
again. For this reason, many
are using a foot-deep layer of
old grass, which acts quite well.
provided it is laid on properly,
The various types of plastic
sheeting promise to be very
effective for this work. At
present they are rather expen-
sive, but the price will come
down as production increases.
Experiments have shown them
to be easy to handle, and they
last a long time if looked after,
The pit-silo may be built in
two ways, the semi-pit or the
pit proper,
The semi-pit is popular. The
earth taken out of the shallow
excavation is used to build-
up the sides, to increase the
capacity. This type has an
easy slope to work on and
excavation costs are roughly
cut by one half,
A pit of this type, 14ft. wide
and sft. deep, could be built-
up to a total depth of 9ft. If
the pit were 36ft. long, it would
hold roughly 60 tons of silage.
Any surplus earth can be
used to cover the pit once the
material has settled,
The size of the pit depends
on the amount of material
to be conserved. It’s some-
times better to have two
smaller pits than one large one.
The ends should have an easy
slope, so the machinery can
be taken in and out of the pit
without danger to the operator,
Build the pit up well above
ground-level so that, when the
material has settled, it will still
provide a run-off for water. If
it sinks below the level of the
surrounding ground, it will
hold water and the silage may
be ruined. The earth from the
pit is used to provide a final
cover.
Although the idea is to con-
serve pastures and crops that
would otherwise be wasted, it
is important to ensile the
material at the right stage of
growth. The nutritive value of
the silage may be lowered if
this is not done;.
As a rule-of-thumb, lucerne
should be cut when the first
flowers appear. At this stage
the lucerne has its greatest
value, and there is less danger
of harming the new growth.
Pastures should be taken off
before they reach the flowering
stage. Never let them run to
seed silage made from this
sort of material is generally
tough and woody. Crops are
best handled when the seeds
are in the milky or doughy
stage.
On some farms, large areas
are handled for silage. In these
cases it’s generally best to
start work a little earlier than
usual. By the time the last of
the paddock is taken off, the
crop or pasture is still in its
prime. In other words, it’s
better to begin a little too early
than a little too late.
Overfat Ewes
“Callaway”: “Bluey’s”
remarks about the danger of
overfat ewes (B. 12/6/’57) are
supported by recent South Aus-
tralian experiments in which
Jeffries and Fearn found that
overfat ewes had lighter iambs
and suffered greater lambing
difficulties than ewes fed on
natural pasture.
Although the lucerne-fed
ewes cut more wool, the addi-
tional fleece-weight did not
compensate for the extra feed
given.
Experiments elsewhere have
shown that, up to a point, ewes
in good condition produce
heavier lambs than light ewes.
Having a better milk-supply,
they get their lambs to market
faster, too.
One of the biggest traps
about the mating is to have
ewes too fat when they are
joined. Many have trouble in
holding service, but those that
do conceive must be kept in
rising condition particularly
during the last six weeks of
pregnancy.
The result is often an overfat
ewe. Difficult lambing is often
due to a layer of fat in the
breeding-organs.
It seems to be necessary to let
ewes fall off to store-condition
between their recovery from
lactation and the time when
flushing brings them into fair
store-condition for mating.
This can be held for the first
few weeks of pregnancy. Extra
good feed during the last six
weeks can then prevent “twin-
lamb” disease and tender
fleeces, and also guarantee a
good milk-supply, without the
dangers of overfatness.
Thus the condition of ewes,
like that of racehorses, must
be watched carefully according
to the job in hand. An interest-
ing feature of the South
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(20/6/’57)
Sunspot activity has increased in the last week—the
most promising outbreaks for a considerable time—and
should result in improved rainfall in many areas. The main
effect is likely at the close of June.
General rains are likely in a large part of Queensland
during July, with the heaviest falls and the likelihood of
flooding in the southern half of the State.
N.S.W. should get general rains during July, with the
heaviest falls and the likelihood of flooding on the coast and
in the northern areas of the State.
General rains, mainly below average, should occur in
Victoria during July, although good rains are likely in the
western division, east-central and north-east areas. Fairly
heavy rain during August and September.
General rains below average are indicated in the agri-
cultural areas of South Australia during July. However,
the Main cycle indicates excellent rains through the whole
of the State, and, provided sunspot activity continues, there
is every likelihood of this eventuating.
The south-west agricultural areas of Western Australia
should receive good rains in July, heaviest between Perth
and Bunbury. Good falls likely in part of the De Grey, with
light rains in the Gascoyne and goldfields areas.
LENNOX WALKER.


Best
Mineral
Supplement
'A
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Oa, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
r
OS
CM-
>sto
*lo°*
f*** 9
*7.
4
*Dti'6a£C&
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
A*f particular* y ladlf tappll»4 »
Writ* ta DAVIS GELATINE: EM H ISBI.
SYDNEY • GAO. Boi <OSB. MELBOURNE • GAO.
k. JI2P. ADELAIDE • GAO. Bo« 7SBK. BRISBANE
FROM LEADING STOCK 6t STATION AGENTS
Australian experiment was that
15 of the 123 lambs born to the
overfat ewes died before mark-
ing, compared with a loss of
nine out of 115 lambs from the
light ewes.
The average birthweight of
lambs from overfat ewes was
nearly 21b. less than those from
light ewes. As a sidelight,
lambs from 2-tooth ewes had
an average birthweight of 7.81 b.
compared with 9.21 b. from
older ewes.
Trout on the Farm
“Bolivar”: There seem to be
no limits to the adaptability of
trout. The Trout Acclimatisa-
tion Council of Western Aus-
tralia, when it first experi-
mented with the introduction of
trout to the small rivers and
streams in the southern part of
the State, made no bold pre-
dictions —the project was very
much an experiment. But,
despite the high summer
temperatures which often dry
these streams to a mere trickle,
the trout have survived,
multiplied and flourished, and
provide good fishing over a
considerable area.
Since then the council has
gone much further afield, and
over the past few years has
been experimenting with the
stocking of farm-dams with
rain bow-trout. Although the
results can’t be called con-
clusive as yet, they are
sufficiently promising to
indicate that dams, if of
sufficient size and depth, can
produce trout of good quality,
size and condition in a con-
siderable part of the State. And
surprisingly the rate of
growth and size of the fish is
often far in advance of that of
trout in running streams.
The last meeting of the
council had a report of a trout
found dead in a dam at Boyup
Brook. It hadn’t been possible
to weigh it accurately, as it had
been dead for several days, but
its liveweight was estimated at
about 121 b.
At Mt. Barker an 18-month
rainbow was taken from a dam
during a visit by the council
to that district. It weighed
3ilb. At West Pingelly many
fine fish of up to 31b. and more
have been taken from a local
dam, while reports from widely
separated areas in the Great
Southern and the wheatbelt
indicate that fish-farming in
farm-dams has great possi-
bilities of success.
When it is considered that
most of the Westralian wheat-
belt has an annual rainfall of
less than 15in., and that large
areas are on a 12in. rainfall
with a very high evaporation-
rate, it will be understood why
the successful establishment of
trout in such districts is con-
sidered something out of the
ordinary.
It hasn’t yet been established
how many fish a farm-dam of
the usual size of 1000 to
2000 cu. yds. could support, but
it is estimated that such a dam
should be able to produce at
least 1001 b. of good, edible-size
fish after 12 months.
A suitable dam should have a
capacity of at least 1000 cu. yds.
—the larger the better: it
should have a minimum
summer-depth of at least Bft.
and should have been holding
water for two years or more.
Investigation has shown that
these excavated dams quickly
develop a surprising amount
of plant- and animal-life, of the
kind necessary for fish-produc-
tion, especially where they
collect the run-off from old
cultivation and established
pastures. There can be little
doubt that the residual
manures, particularly
phosphates, have a great influ-
ence in developing the food-
supply necessary for the young
fish.
The water in these dams is
always muddy and often rather
salty. So far, trout have, in
some cases, shown a surprising
resistance to salt in small
amounts, and this interesting
aspect is being investigated.
Farmers get their fish from
the Pemberton Society’s
hatcheries, where trout are
raised for the council. If
enough orders come from a
particular centre, bulk-
deliveries of up to 20,000 finger-
lings will be made. A specially
designed unit is used for their
transport: farmers can then
collect their individual require-
ments and introduce the young
fish quickly to their new homes.
The price charged for finger-
lings is £l2 per thousand, and
it is recommended that this
number be used for stocking a
dam of average size.
Placement of Super.
“Bindaboo”: New Zealand
experiments show that ferti-
liser buried 3in. deep in
established pasture gives
no better results than top-
dressing in the usual way. In
addition, burying the fertiliser
involves much greater wear,
tear and time than spreading
on the surface.
It’s a different matter at
seeding-time, when it is better
to place seed and fertiliser in
the same drill-mark. The main
thing to watch is that seed and
super, are not mixed in the
seed-box until immediately
before sowing.
As super, kills bacteria, it
must be neutralised with lime
when inoculated seed is being
sown. Super, and lime (1:1)
can be bought ready-mixed.
Lime-pelleted seed also over-
comes the danger of acidity in
the early stages of growth.
Sheep-rugs
“J.W.T.”: Whatever the
merits of the Wyoming (U.S.)
experiments with sheep-rugs of
plastic-treated burlap (B.
19/6/’57), I can’t agree with
“Valentine” that the rugs would
protect sheep against fleece-rot
and lumpy wool. The former is
a product of bacterial action,
the latter of a mould or fungus.
Plastic materials would cause
sweating and a build-up of
condensation, giving a humid
condition, which is essential and
ideal for the development of
both the diseases mentioned.
I’ve an idea flies might appre-
ciate the set-up, too, although
the latest dip-preparations
would reduce this hazard.
Farm Hints
“Rover”: Tractor - engines
can be cleaned simply and
safely by painting the dirty and
greasy parts with phenyle.
Allow to stand five to ten
minutes, then hose down. If
pressure-water isn’t available, a
knapsack-unit will do the job.
There’s no fire-risk, such as
exists in the use of kerosene or
other combustibles. Done
regularly, the job is quick and
effective.
“Big Billy”: Protect seed-
potatoes from tuber-moth by
dusting with one per cent.
D.D.T. at fib. per bag. This
treatment is best carried out by
third-filling each bag with
potatoes, sprinkling fib. of
D.D.T. over them, filling the
second third of the bag, and
then repeating the process.
Finally, fill the bag and top
it off with the remaining fib.
of D.D.T. Subsequent handling
will distribute the dust over
the tubers. If the potatoes are
to be stored where treated, it’s
advisable to agitate the potatoes
and dust as the sacks are filled.
It’s wise not to treat table-
potatoes with D.D.T.
“C.A.A.”: Experiments in
N.Z. over two years have shown
that a long night-interval be-
tween milkings doesn’t lower
butterfat - production. In
everyday terms, this means
that it isn’t necessary for dairy-
farmers to get up in the dark
of the morning to get the best
from their cows. In N.Z. the
trials were conducted at Rua-
kura, on identical twins, and
the cow milked after night-
intervals of 16 hours and the
day-periods of eight hours
produced as much butterfat as
the cow milked at equal 12-
hour intervals.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
A fanfare of trumpets heralded the
Governor-General and Lady Slim when,
accompanied by the Premier and Mrs.
Bolte, they arrived in Queen’s Hall,
Parliament House, for the reception
given by the Government of Victoria,
which 200 attended. At each side of the
dais, in front of Queen Victoria’s statue,
massed flowers were set.
Lady Slim’s lovely full-skirted frock
was of deep sapphire-blue silk-taffeta,
made with a moulded bodice, round neck-
line and bracelet-length sleeves. Her
matching blue-velvet cloche was trimmed
with ostrich-feathers in orchid-pink and
fuschia tonings. Mrs. Bolte’s choice was
a trim black barathea suit worn with
a high-crowned black hat banded with a
silver cord.
Lady Eager, wife of the President of
the Legislative Council, wore a powder-
blue feather-toque with her black frock;
Mrs. W. J. F. McDonald, wife of the
Speaker, wore forest-green and white
corded wool-romaine; Mrs. John Cain
topped her black frock with a black
Persian-lamb jacket and cloche hat of
greige satin.
☆ ☆ ☆
Melbourne Grammar School Chapel
was the setting for the marriage of artist
Judith Wills and pharmacist Geoffrey
Phillip Connard. The only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. D. Wills, of Mentone, the
bride wore a bouffant frock of white
guipure-lace and tulle, and a fingertip-tulle
veil held by an orange-blossom coronet;
her bouquet was of gardenias. Joan
Beattie flew from N.S.W. to be brides-
maid, and wore a Princess-li#e frock of
pink nylon made over shrimp-pink
taffeta. Her headdress was of pink flowers
and she carried white carnations. The
bridegroom, youngest son of Mr. and
Mrs. T. H. D. Connard, of Mordialloc,
had his brother John as best man. Recep-
tion was at Menzies Hotel.
☆ ☆ ☆
Noted at the opening night of “Swan
Lake”: the tangerine Arctic-fox collar
on the evening-cardigan worn by Mrs.
L. R. Buxton over a full-skirted black
taffeta frock; Mrs. Eccles Mackay’s full-
length gown of pale-blue satin highlighted
with a red rose in the bodice; Madame
Borovansky’s rich purple satins; the
mink-trimmed theatre-coat worn by
Janine Berck over a sheath-frock of
white guipure-lace; and Mrs. Terry
Vaughan’s caramel-toned velvet theatre-
coat.
☆ ☆ ☆
For the benefit of Red Cross Mrs. Eric
Cottrell lent once again her lovely Toorak
home for a luncheon and mannequin-
parade, Dame Mary Daly receiving more
than 180 guests. Collecting donations as
guests entered were Mrs. Norman Strange
and Mrs. Royden Honeyman. Mrs.
Norman Pizer (Mrs. Strange’s daughter),
Mrs. Robert Wallace Mitchell, Mrs. T.
Wallace Mitchell, Mrs. Norman Spry and
Marilyn Cottrell assisted in serving
luncheon. Among the guests were Lady
Coates, Mrs. Alex Finlay, Mrs. Colin
Russell, Mrs. W. H. Horsfall, Mrs.
Norman Watt, Mrs. Saul Aarons, Mrs.
George Haines, Mrs. A. A. Lord, Mrs.
J. Adams and Mrs. J. Mullany.
The engagement has been announced of
Susan, second daughter of Chief of the
Naval Staff Vice-Admiral Sir Roy
Dowling and Lady Dowling. Susan is
a kindergarten-teacher at Prahran. Her
fiance, Capt. Kenneth Mair, of South
Yarra, is the second son of the late Mr.
and Mrs. J. B. Mair. He is doing a staff
course at Queenscliff. Plans are for a
wedding later in the year.
Members of the U.K. Services liaison
staff entertained at a cocktail-party in the
Army h.q. officers’ mess at Victoria
Barracks, St. Kilda-road. Chief of the
U.K. staff Rear-Admiral R. S. Wellby
and Mrs. Wellby received the guests.
There were numerous hosts, among them
Capt. G. L. Farnfield, Col. M. W. Biggs,
Lieut.-Commander Sir Michael Richard-
son-Bunbury, Bt., Major G. Stocker and
Commander A. G. Wilson.
A frock of black crepe-romaine was
worn by Mfs. Wellby ; ecru lace trimmed
the neckline and the apron-effect on the
skirt. Her curvette was of beige feathers.
More than 200 guests were entertained,
among them the Archbishop-Adminis-
trator (the Rev. J. J. Booth) and Mrs.
Booth, the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress, Mr. and Mrs. Norman Robin-
son, Mr. and Mrs. R. Gove, Air-Vice-
Marshal Douglas Candy and Mrs. Candy,
Group-Capt. W. N. Gibson and Mrs.
Gibson, Air-Vice-Marshal Acton and
Mrs. Acton, Air-Vice-Marshal and Mrs.
E. C. Wackett and Lieut.-General Sir
Henry Wells and Lady Wells.
☆ * ☆
The red carpet was down and a band
played outside the Bourke-street Metro
Theatre when a combined committee of
the Loreto Parents’ Association and
Loreto Old Girls’ Association organised a
gala film-premiere of “The Barretts of
Wimpole Street,” proceeds of which will
be used to build new classrooms at the
Loreto Convent (Mandeville Hall),
Toorak. In the upstairs foyer the school-
flag dominated the decorations, and
banks of cyclamens and heath were
arranged along the staircase. In the
downstairs foyer fairylights in the school
colors of blue and gold festooned the
ceiling. Bowls of lovely cream and
yellow flowers were everywhere.
The large official party included the
Premier and Mrs. Bolte (she wearing a
full-length aqua-green satin gown with a
stole of gold satin); the Lady Mayoress,
her choice misty-rose and grey brocade ;
Mr. Peter Howson,. M.H.R., and Mrs.
Howson ; Minister for Education John
Bloomfield and Mrs. Bloomfield ; Dame
Mary Daly (in a formal black crepe
gown); Mr. Justice O’Bryan and Mrs.
O'Bryan.
Mrs. John Dynon, president of the
organising committee, who with her hus-
band received the official guests, wore a
ballerina frock of orchid-pink brocade
re-embroidered with bands of silver-lace
scattered with drop-pearls. Mrs. Dynon
was assisted by the vice-president of the
Loreto Parents’ Association (Mrs. Neil
Hanley) and the vice-president of the
Loreto Old Girls’ Association (Mrs.
Adrian Wright).
Mrs. Leo Curtis, a member of the
organising-committee, wore a taupe satin
coat over a floral-silk frock. Her
daughter Ann, who is head-prefect of
Mandeville Hall, chose blue-and-silver
nylon under a French-silk coat in
heavenly-blue tonings. Others noted
were Mrs. Brendan McGuinness (wearing
a blue lace); Mrs. Richard Noone
(golden-brown taffeta coat over pink
tulles); Mrs. Bill Glover (a white Arctic-
fox stole going with her white chiffon
gown), and Mrs. Peter Condon (her frock
in a rose-pink Chinese design).
SYDNEY
It has been a great week for repertory-
theatre openings. At the Independent
“Sabrina Fair” made its stage-appearance
in Sydney, with Coralie Nevilie in the
name-part, Aileen Britton welcomed
back, and Fifi Banvard introduced as a
producer for the Independent. Naturally
enough there was a very good roll-up for
the first-night, and a happy atmosphere at
this amusing comedy. “Sabrina” will
probably now come into prominence
here as a name for baby-girls, adding
variety to the Jennifers and Kerri-Annes
who are going to confuse schoolteachers


five years hence. Already Sabrina has
proved so popular in England that one
clergyman has refused to christen any
more with that name.
☆ ☆
At the Phillip-street Theatre the play
for children “Tne Willow-Pattern Plate”
is a really enchanting production. The
costumes by Frank Mitchell in varying
shades of blue contrasted with Chinese-
red are inspired, while the decor by
Joseph Shearer transforms a small stage
by simple means to a land of make-
believe. One of the best performances
is given by Rhonny Gabriel as lady-in-
waiting to the mandarin’s daughter
(played by Maree Austin). Rhonny is the
daughter of Ethel Gabriel, who is at
present making such a hit in London with
“Summer of the 17th Doll.”
☆ * ☆
For the Medical Ball, held at the
Trocadero during the week, special song-
books were printed in red and white,
tying-up with the flower-decorations and
reproducing the colors of the Medical
Society, which organised the ball ; and
after supper the 600 dancers sang with
lungs as strong as bellows (or nearly)
about “Marching Through Medicine.”
Official guests, welcomed by Dr. and Mrs.
C. G. Berge, included Mrs. S. H.
Roberts (wife of the University's Vice-
Chancellor), Dean of the Faculty of
Medicine Professor Mayes and Mrs.
Mayes, Professor and Mrs. Trethowen
(the professor had composed tfie songs
for the students’ floor-show), Dr. and
Mrs. J. Huon Cooper, Professor and
Mrs. Champion.
w ☆ ☆
Quite the liveliest dance of the week
was the Pied Piper Ball heid at Prince's on
Friday. The restaurant was chock-a-
block full and the dressing was most
attractive. President of the ball-committee
M rs. M. A. Alidritt, who wore a draped
dress of cloth-of-goid with a matching
stole, said it was expected that the ball
would raise a considerable sum for the
Spastic Centre at Mosman.
#
Nearly 600 dancers went along to the
Empress Ballroom at Mark Foy’s last
Thursday for the 41st annual ball of ex-
students of the Presbyterian Ladies’
College, Pymbie. A dummy in school-
uniform and posters in the St. Trinians
style gave a humorous slant to memories
of schooldays, and big balloons in red-
and-white (the ex-students’ colors) decor-
ated the hall. President of the “old girls,”
Mrs. J. R. Turner, welcomed the official
guests, who included the school’s head-
mistress, Miss Dorothy Knox, the head-
master of Knox College, Dr. Ross
McKenzie, with Mrs. McKenzie, and the
chairman of the school council, Mr. J. M.
yicars, with Mrs. Vicars.
V #
When, last Wednesday, the Y.W.C.A.,
with a cocktail-party (non-alcoholic of
course), launched its appeal for new
chairs for its hall, £350 had already been
donated towards the target of £IBBO.
Each chair costs £5, and a donor may
have his or her name inscribed on the
chair. But, said president Mrs. Neville
Harding, “one doesn’t have to contribute
a whole chair. We’d be very glad of a
leg or an arm.” Among those present at
the party were Mr. and Mrs. Russell
Anderson, Mrs. Lawson Carrington, Mrs.
Douglas Stafford, and U.K. Information
Officer David Condon with Mrs. Condon.
V # *
Returning from abroad after nearly
three years of interesting travel Mrs. E.
Elmer Brown brought a message from
Marcelle Campagna, whose family was
well-known in Sydney when her father,
M. Maurice Campagna, was Consul-
General for France about 30 years ago.
Marcelle, who is now with the diplomatic
corps in Paris, recalls many happy
memories, of Australia and sends good
wishes to her friends here. Those who
knew the Campagna family will be -in-
terested to hear that Jeanne-Renee is now
the mother of 10 children ; and her sister
Claude has three.
Producer of the Genesians’ new presen-
tation of “Our Town,” Evelyn Wood
(Mosman) is a licentiate of the Trinity
College of Music, London, and a
foundation-member of the Genesian
Theatre. She is director of training for
this little-theatre group, and has pro-
duced several of their major shows. She
has also appeared in many Genesian
productions, recently as the grandmother
in “Martine.” Photo by Monte Luke.
Mr. and Mrs. Phillip Caro, of Wight
Lodge, Wahroonga, gave a buffet-dinner
last Thursday to about 40 of the old
friends of the family to celebrate the
coming-of-age of their son Paul. The
dance for Paul’s young friends was held
at the Hotel Metropole on Saturday
night, when there were about 60 guests.
☆ ☆ *
The Society of Women Writers goes
from strength to strength. Of course it
may be that the yearly subscription is a
tax-deduction for writers, but more likely
the draw is the succession of interesting
speakers that president Gwen Morton
Spencer gathers in. Last week’s speaker
was George Patterson, author of
Life Has Been Wonderful, who convinced
everyone that he could have been a
successful actor if he had not chosen to
be a successful advertising-man. Mrs.
Max Murray (who is popular author
Maisie Grieg ) was present as a new
member of the society, which also added
Elisabeth Macintyre (Mrs. John Elder-
shaw) to its list.
V # V
A fashion-hazard of the season is the
pinpoint heel that is being worn by “all
the best shoes.” Its wearer is again and
again let down by its catching in such
things as the corrugations in escalator-
steps and the holes in manhole-covers. It
is said that an American city appropriated
12,000 dollars to make these holes larger,
but as we haven’t as much money as the
Americans perhaps we had better just
make the heels broader.
CANBERRA
An interesting meeting was that of the
Victoria League, held at the Hotel
Canberra. Members were welcomed by
the president, Mrs. j. K. Lawrence,
whose smart black frock featured a
tucked bodice. “Bring out a Briton”
campaign, a cause the league has been
asked to support, was discussed. Guest-
speaker was a past-president, Mrs. Alan
Turner, just back from overseas; she
gave a delightful account of her experi-
ences. Vice-president Mrs. Fred May
proposed the vote of thanks, and supper
was later served in the Blue Room. Heard
that guests at the Hotel Canberra can
expect something special when the new
cocktail-bar is installed.
tt it tr
Canberra Repertory Society held its
fancy-dress ball at the Ainslie-Rex;
perhaps the rain on the evening—very
welcome, but with it so many empty tables
-—dampened spirits of the small crowd,
who, in spite of some clever costumes,
seemed to lack enthusiasm. Mrs. Trudy
Hearne mentioned that she will leave
Canberra shortly with her husband, who
has resigned as manager of the Ainslie-
Rex for health reasons ; also present was
Newcastle personality Hal Gillam, who
is spending some weeks in these parts.
☆ ☆ ☆ »
Later in the week the Professional and
Business Women’s Club held a meeting
at Lawley House ; topic was the forth-
coming fashion-parade to be held at
Lawley House on Saturday, August 17.
The club’s guest-speaker was Dato Nik
Kamil, Commissioner for Malaya, who
left for England a few days later to
become first High Commissioner for
Malaya in London when his country’s
independence is declared in August.


hours they lay on the half-
frozen ground, waiting till the
gunfire ceased completely.
TF the Russians were a
scourge, the AVO was a
growth on the nation’s body
which had to be cut out.
As soon as the freedom-
fighters had enough weapons
they started a manhunt for
their former tormentors. In
this Hungarians faced each
other with bitterness and
deadly determination. The
Avos, seeing that their Soviet
masters would give them no
support in this first phase of
the battle for Hungary, decided
to go into hiding.
Hurriedly they discarded for
civilian clothes—Government-
issue—the uniforms in which
they used to strut about. The
suits and coats varied. But at
first they all received light-
brown shoes. The rebels were
quick to recognise this trade-
mark. Soon, all over the city
posters read: “Look out for
men Wearing light - brown
shoes! The Avos are hiding
in them.”
Lovas was reading one of
these warnings when a man
came up beside him, and started
tearing-down a badly-pasted
poster. Inside a few seconds a
great crowd surrounded them.
It happened so fast that Lovas
hardly realised he was in the
very centre of the conflict.
“Look at the bandits, they're
trying to destroy our posters!”
a voice cried from the crowd.
Lovas realised that he was
in deadly danger. The crowd
could think that he was with
this man ... He had to act
quickly. Before anyone could
touch him he tackled the pro-
clamation-destroyer, and threw
him to the ground.
But the man knew judo. He
twisted Lovas’s arm.
“Don’t be a fool,” he whis-
pered, “I can cripple you for
life. Tell these s you
have known me for a long . . .
You vouch for me . . . Say it!”
“He’s an Avo! Get him,
brothers!” Lovas yelled.
Before the man could have
harmed him, the crowd
trampled on its enemy. Lovas
was lifted from the ground. He
left with the dispersing crowd,
leaving the mutilated body on
the pavement.
For a day or so identity-
cards told the people who were
Avos. But the secret-police
were quick to issue new papers
to their men. The light-brown
shoes and other tell-tale signs
disappeared. Yet the patriots
had a sixth sense for ferreting
out their enemies’ identity.
New-looking papers were the
give-away for a time.
Mob-methods were not to the
freedom-fighters’ taste. They
killed only those Avos who
resisted them. The others were
thrown into jails, pending
trial. Suspects carrying “clean”
papers were taken to the homes
stated in the identity-cards and
neighbors were asked to con-
firm their identities. A bad
neighbor, however, could
always have said the wrong
thing . . .
TTIS close call with lynch-
law left Lovas shaky. He
was prepared to die, but not
by the hands of his own people,
mistaken for a traitor. He felt
the need to be with people who
knew him well. But he dis-
carded the temptation to go
home, admonishing himself
against cowardice. There was
his second home, on the Hay-
square barricade.
A truck halted in front of
him as he was crossing the
road. The driver leant out of
his cabin:
“Where are you going?”
“I’m trying to get to the Hay-
square resistance - centre,”
Lovas said.
“You’d better come with us,”
an armed man called from the
back of the truck. “We need
you more.”
Lovas’s natural curiosity
and an eagerness to help
steadied his nerves. He
climbed on the truck, and
asked, “W here are we
heading?”
“Tisza Kalman Square.”
No further explanation was
necessary. The headquarters,
a massive block, of the Greater
Budapest Communist Party
gave the place a dreaded
notoriety. Most of the high-
ranking officers of the secret-
police had congregated there.
Lovas had heard rumors that
the freedom-fighters had
already taken the building, but
he also knew of the desperate
plight of the prisoners and the
civilian staff the Avos had
interned in the two floors below
street-level.
The cries, pleadings and
curses of these unfortunates
were filtered to the street-level
through ventilators and drain-
age-pipes. They were without
food or water in this modern
version of the Black Hole of
Calcutta.
A lift was the only approach
to the two basement-floors. A
few men who managed to
escape from the building told
the people that the Avos had
cut the elevator-cables and
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 441
Across
I—Platypuses dodge communications from creditors. (9)
6 —She barely entertains the patrons of Young and
Jackson’s. (5)
9 —Bill goes with this duck to business. (3)
10 — Plain cake is spotted (7)
11— A German of Stratford’s drain. (4>
13 — An old-fashioned door fitting to be fifties upturned
fifties. (4-4)
14 — Japanese sash. (3)
16 — It may have tails and lives in
equal quantities. (3)
17 — Cipher kiss in the table of canon
law. (5)
18 — -There is one in the alternative
matter taken in hand during a
row. (3)
19— Drunk nothing in the
thoroughfare. (3)
20— Sailor. (3)
22 — Card-game desiccated Napoleon’s
final defeat in East Sydney. (3)
23 — Love ham to drop a unit of
electrical resistance. (3)
24 — Cobber has a round back. (3)
25 — Flier from Central Morocco. (3)
26 — Bewitch a male with a kiss. (3)
27 Tyler to go wrong at an aquatic
rodent. (5-3)
30—The body like this parent prophet
is backing. (4)
31 ; —Cursed Lorna swallows horse. (7)
32 A number which some dissatisfied
phone subscribers may ring t and
a quotation from their complaint?
(3)
33 — Shorty contradicted the score. (5)
34 — Cursed American wealth kept in
a metal vessel. (3-6)
Down
1 — The peevish may have these sound
of ringing willows. (8)
2 Alexander the Malicious has a
muscular twitch finishing with an
imperfect foot. (10)
3 Relladep who retreats? (12)
4 Improper lynx to laud a former
mayoress of Melbourne. (4, 6)
5 A tight-fisted fellow, proverbially,
has a little business in the street.
(4)
6 Firm crescent ring. (2)
7 Adore none. (4)
B—Boy from Eagle Street. (6)
12—None exist on mutton, but ten
cubed a unit of work on a
horseshoe scene for the Passion
play. (12)
15 — A firm Italian led up the Italian
coast. (10) ‘
16— The feathers of a tent-dweller near
Sydney’s university or Victoria’s
best dairy produce. (10)
21 —Manager of the apartment fish.
(8)
25—Color among the surest football’s
clique. (6)
28— Citrus upset a French boy. (4)
29 — Beat game on the rise. (4)
32 —Billy drops the crook next. (2)
Solution to Crossword No. 440


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
poured cement into the lift-
well. No one knew how well
the ventilation-system worked,
The prisoners faced death by
hunger, thirst or suffocation.
The besiegers attacked
recklessly. Men, women and
children were breathing their
lives away in the Avos cata-
combs. How long could they
survive . . .?
After the freedom-fighters
took the building they searched
for an exit for the prisoners,
There was none, except the lift-
well, and that was choked with
cement. Faint cries came from
below.
The Avos still alive were
begged, threatened, promised
safety, tortured, to disclose an
escape for the trapped
prisoners. Not one could
suggest a way out. Heavy exca-
vating and earthmoving-equip-
ment was brought to the scene,
The rescue-operations went on
ceaselessly, but with little
result; the steel and concrete
yielded only inches every hour,
The calls became fainter . . .
The truck of freedom-fighters
which brought Lovas joined
the toilers. Lovas remembered
reports of miners trying to
rescue their mates trapped in
shafts, cursing the slow pro-
gress they were making. His
hands bled and his clothes tore
to tatters. He heard the faint
cries for help . . .
An old woman brought him
a flask of tea laced with rum
and food. He ate, gulped and
went back to work. Dusk
came quickly ; it was dawn
when he felt that he couldn’t
lift the pick-axe again. He
dropped his poor tool to the
ground. Another hand picked
it up instantly.
/"NUTSIDE the tense concen-
tration of his work
loosened, and other things
poured into his senses. He
looked around and knew that
if there was a hell on this earth
it was right here, around him.
While inside the building
hundreds of people perished
their jailers hung by their feet
from the branches of trees and
lamp-posts in a well-kept park
where children used to play,
A strong breeze swung the
bodies right and left, left and
right. Lovas felt no horror,
no satisfaction, but curiosity.
He saw that large pieces of
paper were pinned to the dead
bodies, and something was
stuffed in their mouths. He
went up to the improvised
gallows.
“Major Imre Szanto,” he
read the identification on a
uniformed body, “served with
the Political Section. Received
fourteen-thousand florins a
month, plus blood-money, and
other premiums.”
Fourteen-thousand florins!
Lovas had to work almost a
year for that kind of money.
Major Szanto’s body was
strung up high. He faced
Lovas in a grotesque, upside-
down fashion. A big roll of
money was stuffed in his
mouth, and attached to it a
warning:
“Don’t touch it —it’s blood-
money.”
The macabre sight strangely
conjured a happy childhood
memory in Lovas’s mind. He
remembered an afternoon at
Beketov Circus ; he watched a
trapeze-artist, high up in the
air, with his feet locked into a
swing, a “piece of something”
sticking out of his mouth, just
as his partner released his
teeth-grip, and fell in the net
below. He was still lost in the
past, when he heard a voice
behind him:
“All that money ... It
tempts you, and me, and all of
us.”
Lovas turned around, and
saw the driver who had
brought him to this inferno.
“But if we lift as much as a
button that doesn’t belong to
us we have soiled our
revolution. You know they
found as much as thirty-
thousand florins on some of
these swine? But how could
we take this kind of money?
Some of it might be the prize
they received for sending our
brothers and fathers to the
gallows. Could you wear a
coat, eat a decent meal bought
with this bloody lucre?”
While the driver spoke,
Lovas remembered the long
family-conferences he had with
Paula, just before the revolu-
tion broke out. Tanias needed
a warm coat. The problem
was how they could reduce
their meagre diet and save for
it. The boy was freezing. And
these dead killers were going
around with thousands in their
pockets. Now they were hang-
ing upside-down, with fortunes
sticking out of their mouths.
Lovas had another look at
the corpse of Major Szanto.
The detid man must have been
his own age, the mid-thirties ;
he had an ordinary, Hungarian
face; under normal circum-
stances he could have become
Lovas’s friend, a client . . .
The difference may have
been that Szanto was an
opportunist . . .
Lovas shook his head slowly.
“No,” he said. “It didn’t
occur to me to take the
money.”
The driver smiled grimly.
“Then,” he said, “you’re a
better man than I am. Any-
way, I came to ask you—l re-
membered you wanted to go to
Hay-square. I figure you live
somewhere on the Buda side.
I’m going that way. You’re
all-in ; I guess you’d appreci-
ate a lift.”
Lovas’s flesh and bones felt
like lead; a deadly tiredness
came over him.
“Thank you,” he said to the
driver. “I couldn’t walk home ;
not even if my life depended
on it.”
The truck was packed with
silent, exhausted men.
{To be continued next week)
A WORD OF ADVICE
/ come to dinner at your place ;
Then, sure as ever, you prepare
A double treat to follow grace.
A very paragon in your care
For faultless hospitality,
You are most scrupulous to share
Not merely food, but poetry
With me, your guest. Hors d' oeuvres and salad
Come in with manuscripts for me
To read or hear from you. The ballad,
Sonnet, villanelle and song
{According to which form is valid
To match the current course ) prolong
The stately measures of the meal.
From oyster-soup to black Pou-chong
The dinner crawls; the lame hours steal
Across the sad face of the clock
Through your performance and I feel
Bewildered as a shuttlecock.
Struck to and fro between the rhymes
That even bubble through the hock
And fill the port with rumbling chimes.
A Christmas ham would start to smell
If served up quite so many times
As your insipid verses. Tell
Your fishmonger, for goodness’ sake,
That he can wrap his mackerel
In paper you’ll donate; then take
Him all your poetry to use.
Do this or you’ll be sure to lose
More friends than you can ever make.
victoria.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE.


Sydney's Past
It would be ungrateful, after Isadore
Brodsky has on so many evenings
provided so singular, and often so
single, an alternative to the rapes and
murders in the Sydney “Sun,” to say
that his book of articles, Sydney Looks
Back (Angus and Robertson), does not
flow very freely and lacks cohesion;
let it rather be said that every para-
graph is a jewel, perfect in itself; and
that Dr. Brodsky, being in love, is
entitled to speak of the beloved object
disconnectedly, or —since so much of
the book means revisiting the scenes of
his childhood—in short pants.
And at any rate, he has gone to some
trouble to assemble these forty pieces
under such general titles as “Places,”
“Theatre,” “Persons,” “Pastimes,”
“Civic,” “Sport.” As with most writers
for the press, he is at his best with
“Persons”; from the paper-seller who
gave a thousand papers away free every
night and received a thousand six-
pences from satisfied customers at the
end of the week to Lucy Osburn,
Sydney’s first trained-nurse; from a
little stud-seller—“ ’Ere goes your
pear-shaped, ’ere goes your pull-out,
push-in, ’ere goes your tiepin, ’ere
goes your back-stud” —-to Sydney’s
fourth Mayor, who attended a ball
dressed as “ ‘half-alderman, half-
sergeant’ in keeping with his rank.”
One of his best chapters is the
“History of the Arcades,” which is
really a biography of Nicholas Rowe,
the architect who built most of
Sydney’s arcades and is commemorated
by only a street. Dr. Brodsky is very
good on the free-and-easy pub-
musicals of the middle of last century;
and on such things as William
Anderson’s fun-factory, a sort of Luna
Park, on the cliffs over Tamarama Bay
that lost him £15,000; and the home-
away - from - home Mrs. McCathie’s
drapery establishment provided for
her young ladies.
Then there are the horse-drawn
tram that crushed “Australia’s first
composer,” Isaac Nathan, to death in
1864; Senora Spencer, “the only lady
operator in the world,” who cranked
the handle of a moving-picture machine
from the dress-circle in 1906; the
waxworks that used to be where Angus
and Coote’s is now; the sale of land
on Middle Harbor conducted on a ferry
which moved opposite each block as it
was put up for bidding; horse-racing
at Penrith and Homebush; fisticuffs
that ran up to as many as 140 rounds
(Sandy Ross v. Larry Foley), and in
which (Berringer v. Lifton) the two
men had to run half-a-mile before the
match; the heyday of the larrikin; and
Hoffnungs, who moved 30,000 cases
and packages from Pitt-street to
Clarence-street between Christmas Eve,
1938. and January 2, 1939.
Dr. Brodsky has much to say about
Twiner ctrcct which he calls the “street
King-street, which he calls the street
of sophistication ; and much also
about Fort-street School.
A problem is why the book is on
plate-paper. Though this enables the
many excellent illustrations to be
printed as part of the book, it makes
the volume much heavier than its con-
tents. The price is 425.! One can only
conclude that Mr. Brodsky wants to
make Sydney dearer to us than ever.
This is not the final work on Sydney
—may it never be written—but an
entertaining book for the general
reader, and full of information which,
though much of it may be indebted
to previous books, must make it
interesting to historians of the future.
Sundowners
One of the cheering indications that
the spirit of the sundowners has not
yet departed from our race is the
custom of Australian travellers, when
stranded in London, blithely to walk
home; and if Malcolm Oram and his
wife, having hitch - hiked around
Europe till they had seen enough of it,
sank so low as to come home by motor-
scooter, it must be admitted that motor-
scooting is very much like walking—
indeed, an even more arduous form
of pedestrianism.
There was the time, for instance,
when they fell over the mountain in
Greece: —
Down, down at a dizzy slope. The
veil began to thin, slowly lifting.
Wispy rents appeared in the grey
fog, revealing the black chasm
below. Another curve looming there
in front.... We can’t make it.
We;re going too fast. We ie
sk.ddmg A screaming grind of
meta >- . A . smacking ,ol as
my body hlts the road - • • - There s a
j in front of me IVs Anna .
A/ f ~ , .. ~
, Mr ', ° ra ™' w K ho ! s . appl ? , T ely
decorated with a beard in the best sun-
downing tradition—though he doesn t
seem to have equipped himself with a
hat dangling with corks to keep the
flies off; which would have looked well
on a scooter—tells the story of his ride
in The Long Brown Path (Horwitz
Publications, Sydney); and tells it
economically and vividly.
We first meet him in London, much
annoyed by fog and routine and still
more annoyed because the shipping-
companies tell him he will have to wait
months for a tourist-class passage
home. He has a total of two-hundred
pounds. So it occurs to Mrs. Oram—
in whom the sundowning spirit burns
with as pure and gemlike a flame as it
does in her husband —that it would be
a good idea to hitch-hike to Genoa,
buy a motor-scooter direct from the
factory and pop off. Which they do.
Thereafter the intrepid armchair-
bagman may follow them to see a
priest leading a funeral-procession in
Communist Yugoslavia; to tumble
about the mountains of Greece; to eat
with Bedouins in Hebron, gorging on
rice and chickens and. as politeness
required, making loud, appreciative
noises like their own scooter; to cope
with flies, heat and scenery in Baghdad;
to catch fish in Bahrein from the
steamer in which, along with crowds of
Pakistanis, Indians, Arabs and negroes,
they are travelling to India —it is rather
surprising that they didn’t just put to
sea on their scooter; then to be pirated
by an obliging guide in Bombay who
took them home to live with him,
TOP SECRET
Here are the memoranda you requested,
sir,
And from the summaries attached you
may infer
Each one is complementary to the
other.
The operation’s planned on flexible
lines,
Stresses and strains, checks, balances —
all designs
Worked out in reference to your basic
data.
These can be organised on three
essentials:
First, the opposing Powers’ hard
credentials
Which will we hope meet with your
approval, sir.
Then coine the ground, maritime and
airborne forces
Concealed, overt, contingent on
resources
Listed in every possible combination.
Third, economic factors which are
fraught
With grave exigencies of shortage
wrought
By undue apprehension of a crisis.
There are a few . . . marginal observa-
tions:
Recalcitrance? . . . unrest of popula-
tion? ...
These, I submit, may usefully be held
over.
S.A.
M. Bryn Davies.


■Mope Against Mope
By MARJORIE WEAVER
Here is a charming light romance which will appeal to all women readers. Set
in Australia and England (both countries which the author knows intimately),
this is an engrossing story of human emotions.
Retail Price in Australia, 15/6. (Postage extra.)
Obtainable from all Booksellers.
HODDER & STOUGHTON LTD.
Introduced them to pretty girls in saris
and showed them the burning-ghats;
on to see dancing-girls in Kandy; and
onward, ever onward, to be hopelessly
stranded in Colombo: —
We tried other shipping-companies
with the same result. An uncom-
promising smile and a firm refusal.
We reached the last one at closing-
time. We were dejected and
crestfallen as we told the English-
man, in the sparkling white shorts
and shirt, our story. This one did
sneer, a half-laugh of a sneer.
“Good God! Our company isn’t
running bumboats. We can’t have
people sleeping all over the decks,
you know.” He stared at us
belligerently as he toyed with a pencil
and then, half-apologetic, suggested
that he might put our names on the
waiting-list for a cabin.
It was a benevolent Italian immi-
grant-ship which—whether melted by
Mrs. Oram’s tears, Mr. Oram’s beard
(they called him Signor Neptuno) or the
Italian origin of the motor-scooter —
eventually agreed to take them as deck-
passengers ; and so across the last of
the seas to that wonderful moment
when Australia (whatever we may
think of it five-minutes after we have
landed) looks like Paradise—“ Look,”
she almost whispered, “it’s there. The
Southern Cross!”
Reviewed Briefly
King Arthur and His Knights of the
Round Table: Retold bv Roger
Lancelyn Green (Faber). Largely
Malory, but with additions from other
sources, rearranged and rewritten for
older children. There is a formidable
opening, explaining who’s who, but it
is not long before Excalibur is
mysteriously popping out of the anvil,
and thereafter all goes smoothly and
swiftly. There are black-and-white
illustrations by Lotte Reiniger.
• * * *
Discharged Dead: Sydney Hart
(Odhams). Experiences of a stoker in
submarines, chiefly the Truant, in
World War 11. Whether the craft is
waiting-about all day to enter an enemy
harbor at nightfall, surfacing to attack
a convoy or, with its radio damaged so
that no signals could be sent, hiding on
the bottom off Malta by night in fear
of being sunk by British submarine-
chasers, this book never for a moment
lacks drama. It is capably written,
without overemphasis, and might well
have been given a more appealing title
and dust-jacket.
* * * *
Sikanaska Trail: J. S. Gowland
(Werner Laurie). Bears, mink,
blizzards, Indians and horses in the
Canadian Rockies, where the author
was a ranger. There are also trout and,
surprisingly, a black fox. Not an out-
standing wildlife book, but well worth
reading.
* * * *
Vatican Assignment: Sir Alec Ran-
dall (Heinemann). Sir Alec Randall
was second-secretary in the British
Legation to the Holy See from 1925
to 1930, a period which saw the rise to
power of Mussolini. It was—and still
is—the British custom to choose a
Catholic secretary and a non-Catholic
Minister. Sir Alec writes in a
restrained, dignified style ; the book is
somewhat lacking in animation, but
interesting for its comments on
religion, culture and politics and for
its behind-the-scenes pictures of the
Vatican.
* * * *
Snowdon Biography: Geoffrey
Winthrop Young, Geoffrey Sutton and
Wilfrid Noyce (Dent). Geoffrey Young
wrote “On High Hills,” regarded as a
mountain classic; Sutton is a leading
exponent of the modem rock-tiger
technique; and Noyce was on Everest.
The three here collaborate to give the
history of climbing in the Welsh moun-
tains, chiefly Snowdon—whose praises,
Noyce points out in a chapter on “The
Writer in Snowdonia,” have been
memorably sung by Lionel Johnson
and W. H. Davies. In spite of this
literary interlude it is essentially a
book for the mountaineer.
* * * *
Fool’s Gold: Erik Munsterhjelm
(Allen and Unwin). Prospecting and
trapping in northern Canada. It makes
an extraordinary contrast with
reminiscences from the Australian
goldfields—instead of heat, flies and
the Eureka Stockade there are half-
breeds and moccasined Indians joining
the rushes to each new find; you paddle
your canoe across icy lakes and shoot
moose to eat; you cross the ice-floes
by dog-sleigh. But at least the story
of the Chariot Lake hoax, where a
trickster started a false rush, has a
familiar Australian ring; as, with
differences of setting allowed for, have
the sprees in the saloons and the
murders. Passably written; and
readable.
* * * •
Those of the Forest: Wallace Byron
Grange (Faber). A wild-life book
which, centred on the snowshoe-rabbit,
has sold very widely in America, where
the author is a member of the U.S.
Biological Survey. The method takes
the book into the overworked
category of the animal-story, close to
sentimentality, and Mr. Grange might
have done better—for countries outside
America—simply to have put his
Nature-observations down straight.
The book is, nevertheless, full of
genuine observation and, because of
the author’s scientific status, unusually
thoughtful.
* * * *
Scotch Reviewers: John Clive
(Faber). A history of the famous
“Edinburgh Review” from 1802 to
1815, this suffers a little from its
original purpose, having been written
as a “doctoral dissertation” and there-
fore being more concerned with the
careful documentation of facts than
with the character of the fiery and
enigmatical Jeffrey, the magazine’s
most memorable editor, and more con-
cerned with the “Review’s” politics—
its rather faded Whiggeiy—than with
the attacks on the Lake Poets which
are about all it is really remembered
for. However, the view of Jeffrey,
who praised Wordsworth’s poetry in
private and attacked it in public, is
at least dispassionate; and there is
sufficient evidence for the reader to
make his own choice as to his motives:
whether he attacked because, as he
said, the magazine needed one slashing
attack in each issue to make news; or
because of his apparently genuine
belief that poetry which he admired
privately for its simplicity deserved to
be attacked in public for falling short
of the 18th-century “correctness”; or
because of some twist in his own fierce
and melancholy personality; or because
of a blending of all these elements —a
strange and complex character was Mr.
Jeffrey.


xa W- MM wm
: : ■- ' ;
ISirtiilS!*)
m
I jsg p g -£-"<Jgt s &
MRU &;!
i
m
&
mmmm
m
?i - •:
s s
-
**:•.
m
*<
■,V,,
S;
|S
i
*«%
m
m
RUBBISH DUMP?
Yes ... with a new look!
Is there a smelly, smoking mound of decaying
rubbish in your neighborhood? Or is your council
one of those progressive ones that is turning rubbish
dumps into pleasant, green parklands?
Rubbish dumps can become parks by a simple,
modern method of rubbish disposal. It is called
Sanitary Landfill. Your council, by using the Sanitary
Landfill method, not only quickly and hygienically
buries all types of rubbish as it is dumped, it also
rids your neighborhood of disease-spreading flies,
rats, mosquitoes and other vermin. The refuse is
dumped into the fill area, spread and compacted,
then covered with a protective layer of clean soil.
Only a minimum of equipment is necessary and these
same Caterpillar diesel tractors or Traxcavators are
useful for hundreds of other council jobs.
Sanitary Landfill frees land for playgrounds,
parks, schools and other developmental projects.
Land values rise, your city is cleaner, your family
healthier.
If your city has an open rubbish dump, agitate for
a more modern deal. Your Caterpillar Dealer has a
fact-filled folder showing how your city can banish
rubbish dumps and build parklands through Sanitary
Landfill.
CATERPILLAR*
D. 57
x9>
v\\^P
•t*> c
*cAterpillar and cat are
' RECiS*I'ER&D TRADE MARKS OF
.rCATERFILLAR TRACTOR CO., U.S.A:'
CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
*}
