

elth
* SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
Comedians of Redheap—PAGE n
Wednesday, September 18, 1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
MECCA OF ALL QUAKERS,
SWARTHMOOR HALL
LANCASHIRE is a county which offers some
of the linest scenery in Britain. At its
northern extremity is the Lancashire Lake district,
which includes the lakes of Coniston and Esthwaite,
and much of Lake Windermere, which can be
explored from the coastal resort of Grange-over-
Sands or from Llverston, a picturesque old market
town.
Near L'lverston is historic Swarthmoor Hall,
illustrated here, which attracts many hundreds of
visitors each year, for it is the Mecca of the
Society of Friends. George Fox, the founder of
the Society of Friends, or Quakers, came to
Swarthmoor Hall in 1652 and converted many
followers in the district, including Margaret Fell,
the wife of Judge Fell, who lived at the Hall. The
house was a refuge for the much persecuted
Quakers, and Margaret Fell became one of the
most prominent personalities in the movement.
After the death of her husband in 1658 she was
imprisoned; later, in 1669, she married George
Fox and they devoted their lives to the Quaker
movement. Meetings for worship were held in
the Hall from 1652 to 1688. At nearby Rakehead
is the “Friends Meeting House,” built by George
Fox in 1688, and which contains many articles
which belonged to him.
He was born in 1624 at Fenny Drayton in
Leicestershire, the son of a weaver, and at the
age of 19 he left his home and friends and
wandered about the country, Bible in hand, and
publicly expressing his disapproval of all kinds
of formalism, religious and social alike. Fox
often interrupted services when the preacher
was teaching doctrines with which he did not
agree, and as a result he and his followers were
frequently imprisoned. He visited America in
1671 and American Quakerism is closely associated
with the rise of the movement in England under
George Fox.
No. 367: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt


WRITE SHORT STORIES,
ARTICLES, PARS,
AND EARN AT HOME.
There is an enormous demand for accept-
able MSS. It will pay yon to study with
STOTT’S Correspondence College.
Head these extracts from Students' Letters:
“During the past six months my Acceptances
have returned me over £200.”
“I am pleased to report further Successes
since Los. 10. This makes £O3 in hand, with
more to come.”
“I list hereunder my Acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“My earnings from my Writing total almost
£70.”
“Since 1 started my Course, I have had
SIXTEEN Stories and Articles accepted, so you
see the Course has more than PAID FOR
ITSELF.”
Ow Literary Prospectus is sent witho'vt obliga-
tion to all interested in Writing. Write for
yonr copy today.
Stotts Correspondence College
IO'O Basse 11 St., Melbourne: 14!) Castlereash St..
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St.. Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
* CUT ANO MAIL THIS COUPON j
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any obli ]
Ration, your Prospectus, and full particulars ol j
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME j
ADDRESS |
AGE I
!
(S.B. 1857)
BOOKHTTNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderata
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
THE BOSWELL COMEDT
The comedy of Boswell’s diaries,
letters and journals which for the
general reader began superbly with
the “London Journal,” fell away into
a comparatively dull patch in Holland
and recovered with the two volumes on
the grand tour, is in full force again
in the latest of the series, Boswell in
Search of a Wife (Heinemann) —a book
which, though no succeeding volume
can hope to burst upon the world with
the explosive delight of the first, is
really just as good as the “London
Journal” and may even be better,
It is so very good, in fact, that it is
astonishing and lamentable to see
Frank Brady, assistant professor of
English at Yale, returning in his fore-
word to the old game of degrading
and belittling this great master. of
autobiography and biography.
This silly process began as long ago
as the period covered iff the present
volume, when Boswell’s “Corsica” was
published and brought him instant
fame, which the poet Gray under-
mined by saying that the book was “a
dialogue between a green goose and a
hero.” Macaulay continued the attack,
holding that the “Life of Samuel
Johnson” was a great book written by
an idiot: though how an idiot could
write a great book he did not profess
to explain.
In our own time we have had D. B.
Wyndham Lewis "explaining” Boswell
on the grounds that his failure to
become a Catholic was the cause of all
his distresses: though since that would
also have been the cause of his books
one could never really make out what
Lewis was trying to prove. And now
we have these Yale professors, because
they have got Boswell’s manuscripts,
thinking they have also got Boswell;
and explaining his whole magnificent
literary output away on the simple
Freudian grounds that, from time to
time, he disagreed with his father: —
Boswell had spirit enough to rebel
against his father’s unflattering
view; his survival as an individual
demanded that he do so. His papers
refer again and again to quarrels
with his father, sullen interviews,
remonstrances, defiant letters. But
he was incapable of ever shaking him-
self really free from his father’s
opinion of him, of attaining “the
privileges of kn independent human
being”... .From such deep dis-
appointment it was a relief for him
to turn to Johnson, the other great
older figure in his life... .Here was
a father who, whether he approved
of him entifely or not, demon-
strated his love for him In all his
efforts on behalf of the Corsicans,
Boswell could be sure he had the
unqualified approval of another
much-respected older man, Pasquale
de Paoli, the gallant Corsican
leader.
There is undoubtedly an element of
truth in this; but Brady exaggerates it;
and it does nothing whatever to explain
the mystery of Boswell’s creativeness,
as is shown well enough by some of the
letters in the present volume. His
brother David also found old Auchin-
leck hard to get on with; but David
never became a great writer. His friend
Temple, the clergyman, likewise had a
father he didn’t get on with:—-
Thank you, my dearest Boswell,
for your affectionate letter. Your
friendship, I think, is the only happi-
ness I enjoy in life. Indeed my rela-
tions are my greatest enemies:
my father cruel, an ungrateful
brother . . .
but neither did Temple become a great
writer.
Boswell didn’t go to Voltaire, to
Rousseau, to Paoli, to Dr. Johnson
in search of a father but with the two-
fold motives of showing himself to
these great men because he felt he was
their equal and to get materials for
biography: and when he had written
his biographies he proved clearly
enough that he was indeed the equal
of any of them. He was like any other
young man of literary inclinations, feel-
ing himself a great man on the strength
of unwritten books; but what dis-
tinguished him from most other young
men was the enormous and insatiable
curiosity about life that forced his
writing into being and made it so
eminently worth reading.
Time after time in the present volume
—if the point needs stressing at this
stage—we can see his curiosity at work:
when he paid a visit to his condemned
client, Raybould, in the jail at Edin-
burgh and, seeing him smile, “con-
sidered how amazing it would be if a
man under sentence of death should
really laugh,” and, to see if he could
make him do it, “gently cherished the
risible exertion till he and I together
fairly laughed”; again when, on leaving
Edinburgh for London and parting
with Mary, “a pretty, lively little girl
whom accident had thrown in my way
a few days before,” he left her some
money to support her, but “got two of
my friends to promise to go to her
and offer a high bribe to break her
engagement to me, and to write to me
what she did”; and again when—the
very model of his technique with Dr.
Johnson —he got Willison the painter
and a Mr. Ryland of Northampton to
argue about a career for Ryland’s son,
which they did fiercely while “I all the
while fanned the fire, sometimes joining
Willison, sometimes Ryland, being like
to burst out with a peal of laughter.”
To see how a condemned man would
behave; to see how an Edinburgh
strumpet would behave; to see how
two of his friends would behave in a
quarrel: that, not to search for a father,
is the nearest we can get to the basic
motives of Boswell’s literary impulse.
It is our supreme good fortune that
his curiosity was always passionately
and devotedly directed to seeing how
James Boswell also would behave in
all possible situations: and the situa-
tions in which he finds himself in
“Boswell in Search of a Wife” are
diverting almost beyond belief. If
essentially they are not very different
from the situations in which most young
bachelors are to be found (he was then
27) —or at any rate bachelors of his
period and his class, when girls of
good family could be approached only
with a proposal of marriage and the
most dire consequences attended all
adventures with the lower orders—•
there is no doubt that both in his
writing and in all his conduct Boswell
was singularly spirited. He is con-
tinuously in love and continuously in
trouble throughout this volume, and it
is an insoluble question whether he is
most amusing in his debauches and his
inevitable remorse or in the ingenuity
with which he courted heiress after
heiress without ever quite committing
himself to the fatal step of matrimony.
As Brady rightly says in his intro-
duction, these were Boswell’s “marvel-
lous years.” “Corsica” was written and
o Continued on page 58)


Tangford-Penny says:—
“You can remember ANYTHING AT ALL that you WANT to remember! If you
know HOW! TRYING to remember is just not good enough. Far, far from
good enough! Forgetfulness of things that are important for you to remember
is not the fault of a “poor" memory. If you are a normal person—then you
possess memory-ability far in excess of what you may fondly imagine. No,
this is not ‘just advertising blah, blah, blah , . .’ —this is FACT!’'’
“TRENT” WILL SHOW YOU HOW TO REMEMBER—
NAMES AND FACES: —people’s names . . faces . . .initials . . . occupations
.. . addresses .. . birthdays . . . hobbies and interests . . ANYTHING
AT ALL that you WANT to remember about people.
FlGURES:—statistical and reference figures . . . constants . . . dates . . .
Prices . . . telephone numbers . . . measurements . . . etc.
WIIAT YOU READ: —text and reference book material . . . trade journals
. . . your STUDIES ... no matter WHAT it is you are shown how to
“GET” the essentials after—TWlCE READING ! ! !
LECTURES, CLASS ROOM WORK, ETC. —you will learn how to “take in”
the essentials and RETAIN this knowledge PROGRESSIVELY
THROUGHOUT THE YEAR!
WORD-FOR-WORD MEMO RISING:— lodge ritual .. . definitions .. . poetry
• * . quotations . . . plays . . . actors’ lines . . . TV scripts . . . ANY-
THING AT ALL that has to be known “word-for-word.”
CONVERSATIONS: —essential details from conferences . . . interviews . . .
instructions . . . reports . . . conversations.
WHAT YOU SEE AND HEAR:—special techniques to enable you to recall
with absolute accuracy—what you particularly WANT to remember of
what you SEE and HEAR. A most important requirement of memory!
HOW TO REMEMBER AHEAD:—appointments . . ..things that you want to
do “at a certain time”. . . how to remember the many important things
that “hit” your mind at all kinds of inconvenient times, that you want
to be “reminded” of later.
BLUE-PRINTS, DIAGRAMS, PLANS, DRAWINGS, ETC.—-yes, there’s a
special section for those of you who wish to remember such details.
WHERE TO PUT THINGS:—you will thank “TRENT” to the end of your
days for showing you how to INSTANTLY remember where you left
your keys, your glasses, your pen, your screwdriver.
EQUATIONS AND FORMULAEengineering . . . chemical . . . navigational
. . . etc. . . . yes, several pages of the course are devoted to this
important (for some people) memory requirement.
SPELLING:—so you “can’t spell for nuts!” All right there are several
pages for your benefit.
UNUSUAL TECHNICAL, BOTANICAL, ANATOMICAL, FOREIGN, AND
SUCH WORDS AND NAMES:—the special section on this subject enables
you to remember such words after TWICE reading or hearing.
WHICH IS WHlCH:—stalagmite or stalactite ? . . . concave or convex ? . . .
foolscap or quarto? . . etc. . . . never again need you be confounded
by which is which?
LONG LISTS OF THINGS —IN CORRECT ORDER . . . FOREIGN
LANGUAGES . . . MUSIC:—“TRENT” is very COMPREHENSIVE.. You
take out of it whatever is applicable to your own particular requirements.
■—Taken seriously, and applied intelligently “TRENT” will: —
9 stimulate your senses—“ tone them up” generally.
9 make you more observant.
9 strengthen your powers of concentration.
9 enable you to grasp important points quickly.
9 increase greatly your general and specific knowledge.
9 develop your reasoning powers.
9 help you to think clearly and specifically.
9 enable you to “GET” the facts, quickly and accurately.
~9 cut your studying time by 30 per cent. . . . and more.
9 save you much valuable time —in general.
9 help you to keep “ mentally young”
IN YOUR
MEMORY
o
Success? Or failure?
Business executive or aspiring politician—air pilot
or clerk—industrialist or professional man —
farmer or grazier—student or housewife—it
matters not who you are, or what you are —there
can he no doubt that your success or failure is
dependent so very much upon YOUR MEMORY 1
Do you not agree?
You already HAVE the memory-ability! There is
not the least shadow of doubt about that.
Provided, of course, that you are a normal person.
It is well worth your while to learn just ho>w this
memory ability of yours functions—how to put it
to effective use.
You can trust “Trent!”
“TRENT” is the trade name of Langford-Penny’s
seven-lesson course of instruction —
“YOUR MEMORY! HOW IT WORKS!
HOW TO USE IT!”
The course that has already made thousands of
friends in this country alone. The course that was
rigidly, yet successfully, tested by the N-S.W.
Police Dept. The course of instruction that has
been acclaimed as . . 100 per cent, ‘fair-dinkum.’ ”
Are you in the panel?
In the panel at the left are listed some of the
benefits that you can expect from the “TRENT”
course. These claims are covered by WRITTEN
GUARANTEE! Place a tick against those items
that are of interest to you. AND TO THE
MEMBERS OF YOUR FAMILY!
Then—if suitably impressed and keen to learn
further details —fill in the coupon below, and post it
to us. Even if you are sceptical—still send the
coupon. What you will receive in return will
quickly set your doubts at rest. Free literature
will come to you in a PLAIN, SEALED envelope.
Your enquiry places you under no obligation
whatsoever.
“Are you studying for exams.?”
“TRENT” is the ONLY course of its kind that
deals with the application of memory to study.
Letters in our files testify to the fact that
“Trented” students, apart from being successful in
their exams., have been able to—“. . . cut their
studying time down by as much as from 30 to 50
per cent. . . .” You will have abundant evidence
of this when you receive the free 16-page booklet—
“AßE YOU STUDYING FOR EXAMINATIONS?”
NO MATTER WHO YOU ARE—NO MATTER WHERE
YOU LIVE—“TRENT” CAN BE YOUR FIRST-CLASS
ONE-WAY TICKET TO
A FIRST-CLASS MEMORY!
CALL PHONE WRITE or MAIL THE
COUPON BELOW for full particulars.
“TRENT” MIND AND MEMORY DEVELOPMENT
PTY, LTD.
Churchill Chambers, 61 Market St., SYDNEY
(opp. Woolworths)
PHONES: 8M6392 J 84857
Mr. W. Langford-Penny, Principal,
"TRENT” Mind & Memory Development Pty. Ltd.,
Box 4578, G.P.O-, SYDNEY
I am genuinely interested in your course of instruc-
tion. Please send me, without obligation, full details.
Mr., Mrs., Miss
FULL Address
(Print details please)
(P.S, If you are studying for exams., remember
that “TRENT” can cut your studying time by
30 per cent. —and more.) (B. 1897)


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Sept . 18,1957
Vol. 78—No, 4049
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
"CROAK! CROAK! CROAK!"
IF a competition could be held, even
at the height of the carbuncle season,
between Dr. Evatt and the Prophet
Job, the Australian contender would
win hands-down.
There has never been a more doleful
politician, one more prone to fear the
worst —or pretend to fear the worst—
than Barton’s dismal Bert, who has
reached the state of being a chronic
case of melancholia complicated by
Red jaundice.
Ever since Dr. Evatt ceased to hold
office he has seen nothing but suffer-
ing and wrong in the Australian
economic and political scene. Dr.
Evatt himself, of course, does not
personally suffer from depression with
his residences in exclusive areas, the
biggest staff ever vouchsafed a Leader
of the Opposition, and a large black
Government car complete with driver
which brings him to his toil from
whichever residence he happens to be
inhabiting at the moment. His lines
seem to be cast in pleasant places; but
from the swamps and marshes of
A.L.P. territory his croak is ever to
be heard.
There his outlook is perennially and
purposefully blue, as evidenced by his
speech on the Budget. His pessimism
is something that nothing apparently
can cure.
For the leader of a forthright Aus-
tralian party which has always claimed
to be a body of forward-looking
youth, instinct with confidence in the
country, the Doctor’s outburst on the
Budget was certainly an extraordinary
performance. Six years ago, when the
country was reaching a peak of boom
with which the Government was
wrestling to control, he came forward
with a shout about the “horror
Budget,” predicting unemployment on
a wholesale scale, rattling the skeleton
of “depression” in the faces of women
electors, frightening mothers and
youths with the threat of capitalist-
made war against our—or, rather, his
—allies of the Kremlin. The years
which have succeeded have belied
every word he said. But he is still
the arch-croaker.
That the years ever since he went
out of office have been years of pros-
perity, that it has been necessary again
and again to curb excessive spending,
that his expedients for prosperity
(shorter hours and higher pay) have
failed to work, as they were bound to
fail, means nothing to him. With
wool still selling very well, with
sheep-population at an all-time record,
with hire-purchase spending at too-
high a level, if anything, he-still sees
a “running-down economy.”
He sees in the fact that there are
20,000 people registered for unemploy-
ment-benefits and 52,000 people
registered for employment among a
population rising rapidly towards
10,000,000 a serious situation which
forms one of the grounds of a motion
of censure against the Government. In
actual fact, especially with a large
emergency influx of Hungarians and
Economic Survey and
Investment Reviews—
pages 20-22, 27-30.
others driven from their own lands by
the tyranny of the Reds, it means little
genuine unemployment at all. Most
of it represents either workers on
transfer from job to job, or unemploy-
ables, or those who are not yet fit for
employment. And the whole argument
of the Opposition, and particularly that
of the eager Mr. Clyde Cameron, that
the Government is heartless in allowing
the Hungarians fleeing from the Red
terror to “tramp the roads” of the
Australian haven which they have just
reached in search of work, is spurious
and dishonest and playing the
Communist game.
Of course the pensioners and
receivers of social-service benefits have
the pity of the well-to-do Labor
members who don’t have to finance
them. Australia this year is paying
not far short of a quarter of its annual
revenue for social-service benefits—
£243 million, or four times what it cost
to finance all Commonwealth services
before the war. About £l4O million
of this, of course, goes in old-age,
invalid and widows’ pensions, and the
amounts take no account of the special
taxation concessions given to pensioners
or of the over £7O million more allo-
cated for war- and Service-pensions
and repatriation.
The point is rapidly being reached
at which a third of all the Common-
wealth’s collections will go directly or
indirectly into social-service hand-
outs, but Dr. Evatt and his followers
pretend to feel that this is niggardly,
and that the Government should be
censured —and defeated.
The signs are too marked to be
ignored. Labor hopes for an election
through the rejection of the Govern-
ment’s banking legislation with the
help of its mortal enemies the Demo-
cratic Labor Party in the Senate.
It hopes to win on fear of atomic
radiation, on promises of the 35-hour
week to workers and fabulously
increased pensions and social-service
benefits which it would find itself unable
to give; in a word, in a campaign
consisting in equal parts of bribery and
fear, with an ingredient of intimida-
tion.
That part of Labor which forms the
Red controlling-juntas hopes to win
also with Dr. Evatt as its leader, for
there is no other in sight, except Eddie
Ward, who might be expected by any
stretch of the imagination to act
consistently as the pliant tool of the
extreme Left. So the Left which put
Dr. Evatt into the Barton nomination
is now trying, apparently, to find a
safer seat for him, recognising that in
the event of an election it would take
him all his time to win his own seat,
much less the Treasury benches.
THE LITTLE CHIMPANZEE
Did you read about this fellow, “Mr.
Crusoe
On an island in the middle of the sea
Who, invited to escape, refused to do so
When he couldn’t take his little
chimpanzee?
No, he wouldn’t leave his little
chimpanzee;
He’d have liked to go, but it was not to
be;
He was packed and on the ship,
But refused to make the trip
When he couldn’t take his little
chimpanzee.
Oh, there’s other lonely Crusoes isolated
On an island, an unhappy family,
But although the matter’s often been
debated
They’ll never leave their little chimp-
anzee.
No, they’ll never leave their little
chimpanzee,
On this they hardly dare to disagree,
For if they do, they know
They’ll be really forced to go—
So they’ll never leave their little
chimpanzee.


THE SURVIVORS


PLAIN ENGLISH
Labor's Asian Emissary
The results of the debate on Hungary in
the special session of the United Nations
were a foregone conclusion.
The report of the Five Power Com-
mittee, headed by a minor, if very able,
Australian diplomat (who represents us
in Manila) was presented. Volumes of
talk were spilled largely by the represen-
tatives of self-advertising little dictator-
ships whose rule is as uncompromising
as that of Russia among its satellites.
Sixty nations voted on the basis of the
devastating report to condemn the action
of the Russians against the Hungarians
and to send Prince Wan, of Siam (a shaky
country threatened from within and with-
out by Communism and only outside
the Iron Curtain through the backing of
the great Western Powers) to Moscow
and Budapest in his capacity as President
of the U.N. Assembly. There he was to
shake a finger at Khrushchev and Kadar,
give them a wigging and demand free
elections in Hungary.
Ten nations voted against the U.N.
resolution and 10 abstained from voting,
including India, Ceylon and Indonesia,
which are by way of becoming a fellow-
traveller bloc, always obstructive when
anything happens likely to interfere with
Communist plans.
Nehru was consistently on the Red
side of the fence in the Suez affair. He
is a U.N. lawbreaker in regard to Kash-
mir, and refuses to obey United Nations
orders.
But the most disquieting fact about
him is that he has become the
spokesman and diplomatic channel of
communication of the Australian Labor
Party. The revelation of this startling
fact came out in the debate on Hungary
in the Federal House of Representatives
last week, when Dr. Evatt spoke on behalf
of the party.
He made a strange speech in which he
professed that he was fully behind the
Vienna Socialist International resolutions
condemning Russia’s Hungarian brutali-
ties and atrocities. He claimed that he
wanted to see established in Hungary and
the other Russian satellite countries “not
Governments like that of Poland, but
Social Democratic Governments.” He
even condemned the Australian Govern-
ment for not having attempted to prevent
the Hungarian delegates from attending
the 1.L.0. Conference, at which 288
delegates voted for expulsion—ineffec-
tively—but at which Australia, like many
other countries, abstained from voting
because the U.N. General Assembly, a
superior body, was discussing the same
questions.
Dr. Evatt, in fact, merely manufactured
his speech on lines displayed to allow
him to abuse the United States and
the Australian Government, but the most
interesting part was his admission that
“from the very first the Labor party —and
I have been very active in this matter
in a very direct way—intervened and
appealed through the Prime Minister of
India in connection with the cases of
people condemned to death. Those
representations to Nehru were successful.”
Thus the Australian Labor Party
recognises as its channel in diplomatic
communication an Asiatic dictator whose
country is rapidly going Communist —
one Indian State is already that —and
bankrupt, and who has shown himself
to be a fellow-traveller every time
Moscow has needed his help.
Parliamentary Pensions
[From Canberra]
Accounts of the Parliamentary Retiring
Allowances Fund, just investigated by
the Commonwealth Actuary, show that
the balance in hand at June 30, 1956,
amounted to £207,515. At that time,
pensions were being paid to 24 ex-
members of Parliament and 11 widows of
ex-members. The total annual charge on
the fund for these pensions was £8278.
The Act which established the fund
requires the trustees to pay from it 40
per cent, of the cost of the following
benefits:
Pension of £l2 a week on voluntary
retirement after 12 years’ service, or, if
retirement is not voluntary, after service
for eight years or in three Parliaments.
Pension of £lO a week for the widow of
a member.
(Members contribute £4 10s. a week
towards the pension.)
The Anti-Corns, from Victoria, who
were annihilated in 1955, qualified for
the pension because they had served in
three Parliaments from 1949, when they
entered the House.
Figures prepared by the actuaiy show
that the age-distribution of those draw-
ing the pension was: 45-49 (1), 50-54 (2),
55-59 (3), 60-64 (7), 65-69 (7), 75-79 (3),
80-84 (1).
Boite's Deficit
Treasurer Bolte has presented to the
Victorian Parliament a Budget in which
he has clearly had little leeway. He has
had to provide the first essentials for the
fastest-growing State, which is also
absorbing more migrants than any other.
The inevitable results are record
expenditure on education (£35.4
million, compared with £33.6 million
last year); hospitals and charit-
able institutions (£ll million); housing
(£lO million); health services (at £8.6
million, up £550,000) and the public
service generally—the police force will
take another £400,000 —to sustain
administration and services in an
expanding population.
Bolte has budgeted for a deficit of
£3.5 million, and could have counted on
a surplus, despite the vast expenditures
on schools and hospitals and housing,
if Cabinet had tackled the railways, esti-
mated to show a deficit of £4.9 million.
It is common knowledge in Spring
Street that the railways are vastly over-
staffed, that needless overtime is paid in
many branches, and that Bolte is afraid
of tackling the two men politically
controlling the undertaking—Mr. J. J.
Brown, the Communist secretary of the
A.R.U., and Sir Herbert Hyland, leader
of the Country party—who make
threatening gestures whenever an attempt
at economic reforms is contemplated.
He has, however, refused to make
freight- or fare-increases, maintaining
the Cabinet's resolve to avoid all actions
that will raise the cost of living or prices,
although part of the railways debt is now
being converted at higher interest-rates,
as are maturing loans on all State works.
A piquant feature of the political
reaction to the Budget was the tepid
criticism of it by the Opposition and the
Trades Hall. In his last year as Premier
and Treasurer, the late John Cain
presented a Budget giving a £1.5 million
surplus, although there was urgent need
for schools and hospitals throughout the
State. In the circumstances the surplus
was a social mistake.
There has been evidence of consider-
able alarm in political Labor during
the last year as new schools have opened,
shown in particular by a desperate effort
to claim credit for having planned them ;
but the truth is that Bolte has got them
built (at a price), and the Trades Hall
leaders, who regard Bolte as more liberal
than other Liberal Premiers, have had to
recognise it.
Teenage Training
A (Survey of the State’s 205 muni-
cipalities by the Victorian Municipal
Association puts the damage to council
property and its replacement at some-
where near £IOO,OOO a year. This is aside
from the damage caused to Federal and
State departments, especially the post-
office, railways and tramways, which
runs several times as high.
It is clear from the reports made to
their association by the municipalities
that the best preventives against
vandalism are education and enlighten-
ment of the younger people. The most
cheerful report of all came from Camper-
down (Vic.), in the Western District,
which has always been well-off and well-
run and is now rather better educated
than most country towns.
The worst municipality was Footscray,
which had to spend, to repair wilful
damage, £665 on electric-lights and
stands ; £136 on service-mains ; £250 on
public conveniences ; £660 on buildings
and pavilions ; £220 on taps and meters,
and lesser, but cumulatively substantial,
amounts on flagpoles, windows, seats,
notice-boards and the like.
Footscray, which has always been one
of Melbourne’s biggest suburbs, has
grown enormously since the war with the
industrial expansion in the western
approaches to the city, and parts of it
have been sadly lacking in amenities ; in
fact, in some of the services taken
for granted in civilised communities, and
its schools have been wretchedly over-
crowded. In addition to the money
spent on replacement, Footscray rate-
payers also found nearly £IOOO for an
anti-vandal patrol service.
Yet it is obvious that patrol services
are effective where the areas to be
supervised are more compact than
sprawling Footscray. Collingwood, per-
haps the poorest suburb with a high


incidence of street offences, invested in a
24-hour patrol service and reported very
little damage comparatively, because
there is so little of the municipality;
and vigilante committees in Brunswick
and Coburg have brought immunity to
those sections of the cities where they
operate.
The enormous year-round toll comes
to light only when such surveys are made.
Councils have found that press publicity
about certain acts have encouraged a
spate of them, and they have found it
less expensive to back-pedal rather than
to draw attention to the newest
adventures of juvenile delinquents.
It is significant that vandalism has
increased generally in Victoria in the
bigger towns ; and it is difficult to believe
that the withdrawal of the foot-police-
men from the old beats has nothing to do
with its upsurge.
Only Two Vet.-schools
Veterinarians in Victoria are now
making renewed efforts to have the Mel-
bourne Veterinary School, which was
shut-up in the depression by Sir Stanley
Argyle, reopened, and representations
were made during the visit of the Uni-
versities Commission, which has the ear,
presumably, of the rich uncles in
Canberra, or would not have been sent
on its fact-finding missions.
The only two schools for vets, in Aus-
tralia are in Sydney and Brisbane. This
makes the cost of training prohibitive
for most parents in other States, since
four of the five years’ training must be
spent in Sydney or Brisbane, and,
although scholarships are available, they
hold the graduate to State service for
important years after the course is
ended.
Aside from those in research, there
are 23 vets, in the Victorian Agricultural
Department, 30 in private practice in
Melbourne and only 70 in Victorian
country centres. Sheep-areas in Victoria
are satisfactorily served by the depart-
ment’s veterinaries, but as these don’t
provide the services a private practitioner
would give to other farmers in need of
advice, many parts of the State have,
in fact, no veterinary.
The Victorian Division of the Aus-
tralian Veterinary Association estimates
there are three vets, in Victoria for every
million head of livestock, compared with
an average in Europe and the U.S. of
130 to every million head. Australian
livestock have, of course, been much freer
of disease than herds and flocks over-
seas ; but vets, admit this has been due
not so much to the efficiency and numbers
of the vets, as to the work of the
Quarantine Department.
Russia Moves South
[By “EJs Dum”]
All the moves by the U.S.S.R. and its
allies in the Middle East seem aimed to
tempt somebody to fire provocative shots.
Moscow’s propaganda in Syria and
Egypt is designed to produce disturbance
and to stimulate adventurers in Damascus
and Cairo to aggressive action with
assurances of Russian backing. The
course of events shows a close concert
of action between the totalitarian
Kremlin and the equally totalitarian
Syrian and Egyptian dictators.
The situation has been handled by
Mr. Dulles in a way, unfortunately,
which lends color to Russian charges.
His actions—the sending of a Mr.
Henderson to investigate, the marshalling
of the Sixth Fleet off the Syrian coast
and other moves—were characterised by
the London “Times” rightly as having
“a tone and attitude.... vigorous to the
point of being provocative”:
Both Russia and the United States appear
to be confident that they can intervene in
the Middle East, because they are innocent
of any “colonialist” history in that area,
in ways that this country [U.K.] could not
and would not choose. But their innocence
extends not only to their history but to
their knowledge of the dangers of internal
factions and feuds in the Arab States, and
they may earn the “colonialist” label
sooner than they know.
They had already earned it when that
was written.
Contemporaneously with the visit of
the U.S. investigator, who seems to have
accomplished little save to stir-up feeling
in Lebanon and adjacent countries and
rouse Arab Nationalist suspicions to
fever-heat —-and offend Egypt, which he
ignored—the Kremlin moved to isolate
the U.S. by threatening the United
Kingdom in a Note which appeared to
assume the right of Moscow to dictate
British foreign policy. Mr. Macmillan
rightly treated it with the contempt it
deserved, and hit back hard and to the
point.
This Note from Bulganin was as care-
fully timed as everything else. Follow-
ing its dispatch Nasser suddenly
appeared on the scene to renew his love-
feast with the Syrians. As Washington’s
Mr. Henderson left the area Nasser
appeared with a plan for the final
economic union of Syria and Egypt. It
sounded as if this had been fait accompli
for some time, and as if the announce-
ment, like the rest, had been timed.
The day it was announced, September
3, Moscow Radio announced that Syria
and the Soviet Union had agreed to
solve “all questions and to sign an
agreement on economic and technical
co-operation”; also that an economic
delegation would leave Moscow soon to
discuss in Damascus the “building of
roads, railways, irrigation installations,
power-stations * and prospecting for
natural wealth.” Obviously the Egyptian
and Russian announcements were
planned to come out together.
On the same day a new phase began
to develop with an attack by the Syrian
Foreign Minister and by the Nationalists
in Beirut on the Lebanese Government
for its adherence to the Eisenhower
Doctrine, and on the Zionists of Israel.
This was followed the next day by the
issue of the Soviet Union’s Note to the
Western Powers asking them to join in a
renunciation of force in the Middle East
—such renunciation, of course, would
probably be followed by “revolutions”
in Syria and elsewhere, in which, as in
the Baltic States in 1939-40, the Red Army
would take over by request of the local
dictators.
Then came an announcement from
Cairo that Egyptian and Syrian military
forces would be virtually integrated.
It is certain that attempts have been
made in the past few days to stir-up
Israeli feeling—twice the Israelis, who
have otherwise kept very quiet, have
complained of farmers being fired on
from across the Syrian border.
The position begins to look as if a
Russian plot is in being to place Nasser
and the Syrians in control of the Middle
East, holding the Americans and their
allies off while the deed is done.
Syria is already the centre of internal
agitation to oust those sections of Gov-
ernment which are not Communist-
controlled. Ferment, which might lead
to chaos, is being created in Lebanon,
which is helpless, since its army amounts
to only 7000 men. Nasser is being incited.
The Turks are being told to keep out at
their peril. The Baghdad nations are
subjected to daily threats.
Moscow, if it thinks it can do so,
has two main bribes to offer —cover for
the immolation of Israel and Jordan and
Lebanon as independent States and for
the subjugation or purchase of Saudi
Arabia and Yemen.
Being independent of Middle Eastern
oil, the U.S.S.R. could temporarily use
that commodity as a bribe to the Arabs ;
or it could even be well satisfied if it
caused a more permanent dislocation of
the world’s supply than was achieved
during the Suez crisis. As a pilot-plant
operation, that deplorable business must
have been invaluable to Moscow. It
learnt from it a perfectly easy way to
disrupt all Western economies and trade
and to prejudice Western defence.
The temptation, with the Syrians and
Egyptians not only ready but eager to
play, must be terrific for Moscow,
especially since Mr. Dulles has
obligingly explained how the Soviet
Union can do it without giving Washing-
ton an excuse to intervene.
He has said that the conditions
precedent to armed intervention by the
U.S. under the Eisenhower Doctrine
would have to be (a) recognition by the
United States that Syria was dominated
by international Communism; ( b ) a
request by the victim of aggression for
U.S. aid.
Presumably it will first need an allega-
tion by Syria that it is so dominated—
which will never come, because Russian
technique will not allow that to happen.
If it really takes over Syria a clarion-
call will first come from Damascus
asking for Russian protection.
Of course the same conditions might
apply to Israel. But what would happen
there is that all the Arabs, plus mobs of
unofficial Russians, would fall on the
little country, destroy it overnight and
set up a de facto Government like the
Kadar Government in Hungary, which
would also ask for protection by a large
section of the Red Army.
On past performances all the Western
Powers will do in such an event is to
call for a tardy report via the U.N.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
■pARALLELING that key-ring with
•*- the coat-of-arms of a city called
“Sidney” (B. 4/9/’57), another Sydney
shop offers an ash-tray bearing the arms
of a city called “Melburne.” Taking their
“ W hen the quarrels start in earnest use the short, straight left."
well-known love for each other into con-
sideration, it seems probable that they’re
making each other’s souvenirs.—
“P.Q.M.C.”
♦j, <j+
“Eluxor”: Being stopped in my car in
Clarendon Street, South Melbourne, by
a shunting Overlander truck 1 was amazed
to face a sign of a Greek firm: “ ,
Geoponic Dealers.” Not having come
across such a word in 21 years here, I
consulted my Webster. The meaning is
“agricultural”—from the Greek geo,
earth; pottos, toil —in plain English:
greengrocer! Any other firm with the
same handle?
“Tabba”: The new teacher had turned
out to referee a school game in his old
coilege-togs. One of the boys gazed
hero-worshipfully and asked reverently,
“Are those yer college-colors, sir; red
and yeller?” After an icy pause the new
man said, “Ferguson, my college-colors
are maroon and gold!”
❖ *t*
“Bo”: As an occasional tram-traveller,
when I have been handed my ticket I
absentmindedly roll it up into a pill and
idly flick it out the window, and I have
often wondered what evidence I could
adduce should an inspector get on.
Apparently no one simply holds his
ticket in his hand. The methodical type
folds it neatly and slips it under his
signet-ring ; another will use it as a book-
mark ; I have seen a fellow put it behind
his ear like a cigarette or pencil; yet
another will sit on it; the type who carries
a purse shoves his ticket in that. Inside
the hat-band is no uncommon repository ;
I have seen a bloke nibbling the corner of
his ticket and then masticating it —pos-
sibly it satisfied his body’s craving for
some vitamin. When the inspector did
come along and demand to see ’em he
produced the pulpy mess. The inspector
gave one near-green look at it and got off.
»'«
“Sister Ellell”: Those old-style male
underpants (B. 4/9/’57) often crossed my
path as a nursing-Sister, but once most
unusually: a dear old soul fell over; I
lifted oodles of layers of clothing and
woollies to gaze upon her bruises ; some-
what baffled at the final one which fitted
her like a glove. For they were men’s
underpants, long variety ; the only differ-
ence, they were done up at the back!
■‘St
“Abbat”: After a tiring week among
the western N.S.W. floods early in 1955 I
booked into a Wellington hotel for the
weekend. Following a shower I flopped
wearily on my bed an nature!. Late in the
afternoon I wakened, aware that my room
door had just closed. The sounds out-
side indicated a whispered consultation,
then the door opened again and a girl
came in. She looked at my pink and
blushing innocence, then went out again.
As the door closed I heard her say,
“You’re right!” It still intrigues me to
speculate about what it was that she came
in to verify.
❖ *> *i*
“Bicky”: You can’t go on appearances:
he was reasonably well-dressed, and
walked with a purposeful air, when he
suddenly confronted me in a busy city
arcade. “Can you give me four-bob for
a counter-lunch, mate?” he asked gruffly.
I remained silent, mainly because I was
quite unprepared for the bite. “All right,
all right! A bloke’s entitled to have a
beer with his meal, ain’t he?” he pro-
tested, as he went on his way seeking
another prospect.
* »*♦
“Y. Mee”: Maybe a barrister can’t
recover fees by legal process (B.
14/8/’57) ; but as it is to the instructing
attorney that counsel looks for his fees,
mostly paid on the knock, the risk of loss
seems negligible. But who fixes or assesses
barristers’ fees? Sir Julian Salomons, on
being handed a brief (in longhand, by the
way) by an attorney, glanced at the top
corner endorsed “35gn5.,” picked up his
quill, and remarked, after making an
amendment, “What bad eights you make,
Mr. Costs!”
♦jt »j* »j»
“Wusslean”: For weeks Old Faithful
had been drinking his head off. T took
him to the garageman, who gave him a
thorough overhaul, replacing spark-plugs,
THE THIRD CLASS
“I have been....a slave of the men who run
amateur tennis.” —Lew Hoad, in “The Saturday
Evening Post.”
A man may either be a slave
To the Legree-L.T.A.A.,
And travel over world and wave,
Picking tips up by the way ;
Or else a man may make his rounds
Playing for payment—Oh, how crude! —
But changing halfpennies to pounds,
And free —of all but Servitude.
Record, O Muse of tame tetrameter,
That every boy and every gal
Is bound to be a little Amateur
Or else a little Professional,
Or else — well, there’s a nameless class
That plays for neither pounds nor
pennies ;
Just a lad and just a lass
Who like their little game of tennis.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“The second week in spring and We haven't heard the Walrus love-call yet."
valves and other internal organs, with
file result that he still did eighteen miles
to the gallon instead of 25. Then I noticed
that a tiny screw-cap was missing from
the air-filter, and found that a nut and
washer had dropped down into the car-
burettor, partially blocking it. Obstruc-
tions removed, Old F. immediately
returned to his former moderate habits.
When I told the garageman all he said
was: “Well, what do you know?” What
1 know is 1 m £2O out-of-pocket.
,»«. ...
“Yteicos”: George Street, Sydney, on a
Sunday night. A camera-carrying genie
bounded out of an arcade-entrance,
aimed the instrument and flashed a bulb.
“Thank you, sir, thank you, and now
could I have your name and address?”
Hasty spellings and scrawlings “Thank
you, sir, that’ll be five-shillings and your
photo will be posted to you on Wednes-
day.” I coughed-up. Then: “Now, if
you’ll just come over here by the window
we’ll get a beauty. " It struck me, later,
that his first flash was a dud; then, if
you didn’t come across with the dough,
he was no poorer, either. And I shall find
out on Wednesday who got the better
deal.
❖ *i*
“Tom Trout”: Met many kindly
motorists on the Continent willing to give
a wanderer a lift, but only once someone
who actually collected hitch-hikers.
Squeezed into a tiny car with a whole
German family, I was handed a note-
book. On the first page a doggerel-verse.
dedication translated roughly into: “To
our dear car-guest; we are happy to help
you a little on your way ; in return, will
you please make us happy by giving us
your autograph?” To make them even
happier I added that I was from distant
Australia. How was I to guess how
unthrilling our universal foot-itch has
rendered us? Mama closed the book with
a disappointed snap: “Always in Ger-
many so many Australians appear!”
... ... ...
* *
“Doric”: He had lived all his life in
the islands and was paying his first visit
to Sydney. He awoke on the day of
arrival, his ship anchored in Watson’s
Bay awaiting the medical clearance, took
ODe l° ok at the suburb and said scath-
“Huh—it’s not much bigger than
Levuka! ’
* ♦> *
“Arpee”: About to sit down to the
evening meal, my wife and I were com-
pelled'to listen to the spiel of a couple
of determined insurance-salesmen who
had made a surprise sortie up the back-
stairs. One, obviously an old hand, was
apparently schooling his novice-com-
panion, and repeatedly came to his assis-
tance on sticky points. We pul up with
it for twenty minutes before I was able
to convince the veteran that we weren’t
in the market for any more cover. It
didn’t register with the young bloke,
who was apparently filling-out a pro-
posal-form, but he saved me from being
downright rude by asking my wife if we
were both single and in good health.
Even his fast-talking offsider was glad to
retire in disorder after the spouse’s
voluble response to that.
♦> *
“Croid”: When the cruise-ship called
, at the seldom-visited island port a girl
rushed up on deck and embraced her
old mother, who promptly burst into
tears. Daughter also cried, and blessed
if all the other women who saw the pro-
cedure didn’t turn on the waterworks also.
Funny things, women!
❖ * *
“Aymo”: They want to make N.S.W.
State high schools “selective”; that is,
weed them out according to the intelli-
gence-quotient of the pupils. In an
English grandfather’s archives I found a
certificate issued by the University of
Cambridge which suggests that secondary
education in provincial England 60
years ago was in advance of ours today.
His school was one of those 300-year-old
Tudor-Stuart foundations that gave a
classic and litterce humaniores education,
abhorring anything that suggested tech-
nology or preparation for earning and
•essays into fancy frills like social studies
or “projects.” Subjects covered were:
reading from a prose author ; writing from
dictation ; rudiments of English grammar;


elementary arithmetic (pass compulsory
in these); religious knowledge ; English
history and geography ; French ; Latin ;
botany and shorthand ; with “distinction”
(honors) in shorthand, including 100-
words-a-minute speed. This student
also received a prize for advanced
botany from the London South Kensing-
ton (now Victoria and Albert) Museum,
an examining body of national status. He
was twelve years old.
*l* *l*
“Antiquarian”: A lapse of a hundred
years between starting a building and
putting on its roof is uncommon in
Australia, except in Housing Commission
“projects,” but at Hadspen, a little village
outside Launceston, a move has been
made to complete the old stone church
the Rev. Thomas Reibey began in 1857
"Oh, Were not so terribly concerned about his
handwriting — he's going to be a doctor when he
grows up”
at his own cost, but suspended two years
or so after starting because of a difference
of opinion with a superior ecclesiastic. A
service has been held within the roofless
walls to inaugurate the movement for
completion, which it is estimated will
cost about £4OOO.
❖ ❖
“Bagot”: Just as well there’s no
Abattoirs Employees’ Union in the
Antarctic. That husky (R.P. 21/8/’57)
who slaughtered 5000 penguins in an
afternoon (close on 14 dead birds every
minute for six hours) would be promptly
blacklisted.
“Ardoyne”: Re changing ideas on
color-schemes (B. 28/8/’57): having pro-
gressed from one-tone through two-tone
to three-tone bodies for motor-cars, will
automobile-manufacturers revert to the
single all-over color, or advance to a
patchwork- or rainbow-effect? Or will
some innovator dazzle us with creations
based on the plumage of birds, the zebra’s
stripes, the leopard’s spots, or the fish’s
scales? It would be one way of preserv-
ing the beauty of animal life which is
fast vanishing in an increasingly
•mechanised world.
<£• ♦> *
“XC”: She was pompous and over-
dressed and bejewelled, and the share-
holders’ meeting was fed-up with her
futile questions and irrelevant references
to personal matters. When she said “I
really don’t know
what to do with my
portfolio in the
light of the condi-
tions just stated by
our esteemed direc-
tors ...” a voice
from the back
broke in: “Madam,
if I were you I’d
play safe and sell
one bloomin’ share
and hang on to the
other.”
❖ *l*
“P. O. M. C.”:
Viewing a film
called “High Ven-
ture'’ in which hero
and villain fight for
about ten minutes
non-stop reminded
me that film fist-
fights follow a
standard pattern:
the king-hit capable
of killing nine men
in ten (and all at
once) followed by
some twenty or
more wallops alter-
nately piling up
points for each
fighter, and always
ending with a
knock - out that
would break an
elephant’s neck.
“Hot Summer
Night” had a variation on the usual
wallop-for-wallop routine; whirlwind
haymakers by both parties intrude
here and there, but fortunately
miss. Had one found its mark the .
onlookers would have been K.O.’d by fly-
ing members of the bloke hit. Before this
scrap starts* one of the participants drives
four-inch nails into a hardwood plank
with his fist—just to show you don’t have
to take it seriously, no doubt.
♦♦♦ +J+
“A.”: Gathering-up • some published
verses, a Sydney journalist cast around for
a songwriter further to immortalise them ;
no pitch. Dammit, he’d buy a music MS.-
book and write the tunes himself. His
office desk soon resounded to fingers
counting-off notes in the same way as they
had previously ticked-off poetic feet.
Wishing to hear his work, to say nothing
of check it, he parted with 16s. for a toy
grand-piano, the ill-tuned tinkling of
which caused a quick evacuation of near-
by offices. Still, he’s the only journalist
in Sydney with a grand-piano in his
bottom drawer, which surely puts him
streets ahead of Julian Russell and
Lindsey Browne.
<* ***
“D. 8.”: Another Australian dramatic
success-story (B. 14/ 8 / ’57) is of Father
J. W. Doyle’s translation of the twelfth-
century French morality-play Jeu
d’Adam (Red Page, 7/7/’54); it has been
adapted for the 8.8. C. transcription-
service—in Spanish!
“Bird”: We already have drive-in
theatres and banks, and now drive-in
ships are being considered to carry pre-
laden road-transports. We’re being drive-
in crazy.
t
A LIMITED SELECTION
“Young-m.a. woman, skilled in all branches
of domestic work, would meet, view mat.,
honest man, to 50.” —Personal column.
The dame’s no believer
In guff, no deceiver;
Her claims are , in truth, verifiable.
Her pie and her pas tie
Shell prove to be tasty,
Her cakes and her puddings reliable.
In household endeavor
Resourceful and clever.
She’s just what a bachelor’s looking for.
All she asks is a hombre
Whether lively or sombre,
That she can be mending and cooking
for.
She may be a cutie
Of no little beauty
Or one whose phizog’s of some craggi-
ness ;
She could have a chassis
That's trig, neat and snazzy,
Or one on which clothes hang with
bagginess.
On such points she’s muted.
But if she’s recruited
As wife these must seem immaterial,
For every male bidder
This fact must consider:
She’s tops in the realm managerial.
Of choice she’s not fussy,
It seems. Be he gussy
Or he-man, rough-mannered, fastidious;
Pear-shaped, fat and flabby
Or skinny and shabby,
Of Adonis-visage, or hideous.
Though dead keen to marry
Some Tom, Dick or Harry,
She■ puts just two checks on the venture:
he
Is regarded as non est
Who isn’t quite honest,
Or who’s in his second half-century/
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Comedians of Redheap
CERTA IN PEOPLE OF IMPORTANCE
THE notables of a country town on
whom one placed the greatest
entertainment-value were its less-
reputable citizens —the less repu-
table the more their company was
esteemed in our juvenile stratum. They
revenged for us the soulless decorum
forced on us by the home.
The most valued disreputable ancient
in our estimation was old Bill Cannon,
the custodian of the bowling-green.
He was a stumpy old man with a long,
dank beard and bunion-distended feet
encased in carpet-slippers, and he wore
one of that era’s immense broad-brimmed,
high-crowned straw-hats lined with green
cloth, under which his moistly tender red
nose and libidinously winking old black
eye existed in a perennial greenish
penumbra, for I never remember seeing
him without that hat, and I have a sus-
picion he slept in it. I certainly recall
seeing him seated up in bed wearing it,
when confined there by a swingeing
attack of rheumatics.
Bill was an old sailor, and how I regret
now that I did not tap the wealth of
reminiscence secreted in his memory, for
his experience must have covered half-
a-century of square-sail, and I daresay he
had served in ships whose names are
sacrosanct to those who love and mourn
their lost splendor.
Not that old Bill was one to see him-
self as the creature of a heroic tradition.
His conversation was wholly devoted to
another standard tradition of the sea ;
that of escape from it into every sailor’s
paradise—the port of arrival after a long
voyage with a pocketful of cash, with
the drabs of the waterfront lined-up to
relieve him of it.
If old Bill was to be believed, he had
put up tremendous feats of venery in those
days, to which he accounted the nemesis
of celibacy now inflicted on him. Male
self-esteem is usually reticent over a
physiological debacle of that sort, but
old Bill made it the subject of his con-
stant lamentations.
The only event which distracted Bill’s
attention from this major grievance was a
sacrilegious trespass of boots on the
billiard-table perfection of his bowling-
green, which never failed to bring him
intemperately hobbling on his bunioned
feet and vociferating maledictions which
accused the trespasser of every unmen-
tionable offence that Bill could lay
his tongue to. As the tennis-court
adjoined the bowling-green, with only a
high cypress-hedge separating boozing
bowlers from tea-drinking tennis-clubites,
we used to caper with delight at hearing
those refined ears of the social elect
assaulted by old Bill’s lurid vocabulary.
By
Norman Lindsay
It was much complained-of by the
ladies of the tennis-club, and Bill’s dis-
missal demanded by them, but bowlers,
whatever they may be off Jhe green, are
hearty, back-slapping, good fellows on it,
so old Bill retained his office while his
bunions and rheumatism permitted him
to do so. His retort on those ladies was
to indulge his talent for bawdy invention
over their private lives —which was
especially delectable to us, his junior
court of sycophants, with' those ladies
tripping fastidiously back and forth with
the impedimenta of the tea-tray.
But I find it impossible to Boswellise old
Bill deprived of the unprintable nature of
his vocabulary. Alas, that only simple
men can use colloquial crudities without
being offensive. It springs direct from
the factual innocence of their outlook on
life, which harbors no taint of prurience
in recording it.
So pass, old Bill, hobbling on your
bunioned feet off the earth’s crust to a
sailor’s paradise . . .
AVERY different type of sailor was
old Curly Coombs, who lived in a
neat little white-painted, shipshape cottage
on Hospital Hill, and who kept a fallen
nautical day about him by wearing a fore-
lock, two horns of hair brushed forward
at the temples, and the Navy regulation of
a shaven mouth but a fringe of chin-
whisker from ear to ear.
He still wore, too, the regulation man-
o’-war’s white-duck trousers, reefer-
jacket and tarred straw-hat.
Besides chasing slavers off the African
coast and serving on the China station,
Curly had been for a while on the Royal
yacht Victoria and Albert, and always
referred to the then Queen as “The old
Gin-bottle” —but whether this inferred
that the old lady was addicted to gin, or
was referrable to her dumpy figure, the
shape of a gin-bottle, is a question I leave
to the researches of future historians.
Though slightly irreverent when refer-
ring to his Sovereign, Curly was a tremen-
dous stickler for the dignity of the English
flag and, on some flag-wagging occasions
when the Stars and Stripes had been
hoisted above the Union Jack on the
American Hotel flagpole, he threatened to
cut down the pole unless the position of
the flags was reversed ; which was done,
while Curly stood-by with an axe.
From Curly, at least, I might have
garnered stories of the sea, for Curly
was a garrulous raconteur ; but boys are
like ants, and keep to those itineraries
o Continued on page 34)


POINTS
Two eminent doctors are in strong
disagreement over the health of the Aus-
tralian economy. Dr. Evatt’s diagnosis, as
revealed in his speech on the Budget, is
that the economy is “running-down” and
that instead of gaining strength and
stability in the past year it has
“stagnated.” Dr. Coombs, on the other
hand, says that the economy has
‘improved dramatically” in the past year
and is now in a state of approximate
balance for the first time in a decade.
Of course, Evatt may argue that
stagnation and balance are* two ways of
expressing the same thing, but he can
hardly say that of “running-down” and
“dramatic improvement.”
• •
President Ngo Dinh Diem was reported
as saying that Australia had produced
many outstanding men, and that this was
the reason why he had expressed a desire
to visit several universities in this country.
This somewhat ambiguous remark caused
some speculation in Canberra. Which
men and which universities did the
distinguished visitor have in mind? Did
he regard with veneration the universities
whch had produced some of Australia’s
political leaders, or did he want to see
what the universities were producing
when so many political leaders had never
been to one?
• •
The Liquor Trades Union will press
the A.C.T.U. to ask the Government to
resume diplomatic relations with Russia.
This is the first indication that the
shortage of vodka is causing hardship
to the liquor industry. Or is it that the
barmen feel that a few more hard-
drinking Russian diplomats might give
the industry a needed boost?
*•• , /
Duggan, pre-election leader of Queens-
land A.L.P., is the party’s candidate for
Gregory on October 5 and Wood, the
present leader, will stand down for him if
he wins the seat. It’ll be an uphill fight,
though. Both the C.P. candidate and the
Q.L.P. man are well known in the
electorate, and although Duggan "has the
strength of the Labor party behind him he
will start with the double handicap of
being an outsider and a man who has
already been rejected by his own
electorate.
• •
Wally Rae, Country-party candidate
for Gregory, is equally at home at the
controls of a plane or on the back of a
horse. He was an R.A.A.F. pilot in the
war and his favorite hobby is competing
in rodeos. He is camp-drafting champion
of Queensland, and at the Winton Rodeo
recently he was runner-up for the Aus-
tralian championships. In between
rodeos he’s a stock-agent at Longreach.
• •
Cyril Kemp, the sheet-metal worker
who took his case to the Privy Council
and won a verdict for long-service leave
for 40,000 Federal-award workers under
Victorian long-service-leave legislation,
cannot get it himself. A Melbourne
magistrate, six months after the Privy
Council decision, ruled he broke his
service during the war when, awaiting a
call-up, he worked for three weeks in a
munitions-plant.
• •
As a sequel to' the migration to North
Sydney of two big life-assurance com-
panies and other businesses, the North
Sydney Council has been petitioned to
build a subway under Victoria Cross,
where five lots of traffic converge. In
theory the place seems to cry-out for a
subway, but the council is likely to be
wary of incurring the expense. Unless
Sydneysiders change their habits when
they cross the Harbor Bridge most
pedestrians would still take their chance
in the traffic in preference to using the
subway. The costly tunnel near St.
Mary’s Cathedral is still a lonely place
most days of the week.
• •
Despite exhortations from Red Clarrie
O'Shea, secretary of Melbourne trammies’
union, bus-drivers at Footscray decided
to give the ticket-selling machines intro-
duced on their route a fair trial. After
they had accepted them, O’Shea
announced “the dispute is ended.” Like
his Melbourne trams, O’Shea seems on
the way to being shunted-out.
• •
Federal Treasurer Fadden leaves for
America on Friday for the annual meet-
ings of the International Monetary Fund
and the International Bank. From
Washington he’ll go on to Montreal for
a conference of Commonwealth Finance
Ministers.
• «
Commonwealth Actuary Balmford has
reported that the Federal members’ pen-
sions-fund established in 1948 is actuarially
sound. At the end of June, 1956, it was
providing pensions for 24 ex-M.P.s and
11 widows of former members. Cost for
the year was £8278 and the fund had
£207,515 in hand. Members contribute
£4 10s. a week, which entitles them to £l2
a week for life on ceasing to be a member
after eight years’ service, provided they
are over 45 years of age. Mr. Balmford
says there is no indication that the fund
will require any subsidy from the Govern-
ment, either npw or in 1963, when the
next statutory investigation is due.
It’s a pity—if not a disgrace—that the
same thing can’t be said of the N. S.
Wales members’ pensions-fund. This is
already drawing on the taxpayers to the
tune of several thousand a year, with
bigger payments looming-up.
• •
Latest Communist move to get a bigger
foothold in the A.C.T.U. is a proposal
to drop one of the two inter-State
executive delegates from each of the.
State Labor councils in favor of delegates
from combined industries such as metals,
foods, building, transport and manufac-
turing. The other executive members are
four seasoned, paid A.C.T.U. officials.
Old-hand unionists in Melbourne see
the proposal, which will come up at the
all-Australia trade-union congress in
Sydney starting on September 23, as a
Red move to get more delegates on to the
executive, and more strikes. Queensland
supplies the only two Reds currently on
the executive, G. Dawson and A.
Macdonald.
• •
The new banking legislation will be
the biggest job of the current Federal
session. It will involve four major bills
and amendments to dozens of existing
Acts. October 15 is the tentative date
for the introduction of the bills. It is
expected that Fadden will be back from
Washington and Montreal in time to
handle them.
• •
“N. 5 West”: So the Doc. has the
confidence of the party! Recalls the
bloke who was of sound mind —and had
a medical-certificate to prove it.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: Federal and State poli-
ticians, long hardened to the microphone,
are now learning what is needed in the
way of TV technique. Most of them
emerge from the minor ordeal of the
televised interview without much loss of
“face” (apart from what’s wiped off with
the greasepaint), but a lot more know-
ledge of how to look and what to say
will be needed when TV goes to all
States. Whether the politicians like it or
not, it seems pretty certain that Federal
Parliament will be televised, with results
that may prove surprising. It is reported
in the lobbies that Eddie Ward is a suave
performer before the cameras and Kleig-
lights. Will he be able to maintain that
pose under the continuously watchful
lenses long enough to gain the party
leadership? Or will he forget at times
and allow his natural self to appear?
• •
“A.U.A.”: Political observers in South
Australia are wondering what proportion
of the five-per-cent, swing that regained
the Wallaroo seat for the A.L.P. is a
genuine gain to Labor’s voting strength
and how much is due to the popularity of
Lloyd Hughes. The new member’s con-
tacts in the electorate were many; they
included A.W.U. and A.L.P. positions,
municipal councillor, High School
Parents and Friends’ Association, Boy
Scouts committeeman, Methodist lay-
preacher, Sunday-school superintendent
and church officer.


None but a very reckless punter
Would back the Doc. again in Barton.
So he removes himself to Hunter,
While Rowley James plays Sidney
Carton.
• •
This week will see the end of politicians
in Canberra until October I—an1 —an 11-day
break which Leader of the House
(Harold Holt) has arranged as an
“experiment.” From now on, Holt
figures, it will be refreshing for members
to have a "week’s break” after each
fourth sitting-week. As Parliament now
sits only three days a week and the
Budget debate already has lapsed into the
usual humdrum affair, those who foot the
bill are hoping that members bring back
a few refreshing thoughts when they
resume.
• •
Twenty-seven-year-old J. D. Anthony
becomes the new Federal member for
Richmond (N.S.W.), his father’s old seat,
as a result of Saturday’s by-election. He
shared the Country-party endorsement
with three others and there was also an
Independent Country - party candidate.
By Monday Anthony had polled 17,149
votes ; the four other C.P.s had scored
7719 between them, and the Labor man,
W. H. Smith, 9824. With 4000 votes still
to be counted Anthony will probably go
on to an outright majority.
• •
Transport losses still dominate State
finances. Cahill’s N. S. Wales Budget
allows for an estimated deficit of
£6,368,000 on trains, trams and buses for
the year 1957-58. Last year’s loss was
£6,943,177, nearly £2 million more than
anticipated. Bolte is expecting the loss
on Victorian railways to be £4,951,000 —
about a quarter of a million lower than
last year.
• ‘ •
Cahill budgeted for a surplus of
£71,475 ; Bolte for a deficit of £3,550,000.
The Victorian Premier seems to be pinning
has hopes to getting a bigger dividend
from the Commonwealth in the way of
taxation-reimbursements as a result of
the High Court judgment on uniform-
taxation. He claims that State taxes in
Victoria are the highest in the Common-
wealth and leave no scope for further
expansion.
• •
Both Premiers-are critical of the Federal
Government’s practice of charging interest
on funds advanced to them (from revenue)
to make good deficiencies in loan-rais-
ings. Bolte claims his Government will be
paying £4l million this financial year to
meet debt charges on surplus Common-
wealth tax-revenues advanced through the
Loan Council in recent years. Cahill has
spoken in similar terms.
The argument of the Premiers is
that the Federal Government is collect-
ing more revenue than it needs, lending
them some of the surplus and charging
them interest. There is Constitutional
ground for arguing that surplus Federal
revenue should be divided among the
States.
According to Walter
Glaser, a Melbourne manu-
facturer and printer who has
been visiting Japan and Hong
Kong, efficient Australian
manufacturers have little to
fear from the Japanese trade-
agreement, as Hong Kong
goods have been entering
Australia since the war and
Hong Kong wages are a
fraction of Japanese, which
are increasing almost monthly.
So good Japanese goods are
not cheap.
• •
Speakers at the first annual
convention of the Royal Aus-
tralian Chemical Institute
have followed up Professor
Messel’s plea for greater
recognition for scientists in
industry. Professor Oliphant
told the convention that “any
broken-down M.P. or retired
general could qualify' for a
seat on the board of an Aus-
tralian industrial company”
and take part in determining
the future of technology in
Australia and that they inevit-
ably put scientists on a level
with clerks and salesmen as
far as pay was concerned.
Dr. Bastow, of the C.5.1.R.0., criticised
the smallness of Australian industry’s
expenditure on research —£3 in every
£lOOO, compared with £l5 in Britain and
£2O in America. Government expenditure
on research in this country, he said, did
not lag behind Britain and America, but
private expenditure did. Primary industry
spent more on research than secondary
industry.
• •
In addition to their “Ban Maralinga
Tei/s” the Commos. have also been
decorating Sydney with “Ban All A. and
H. Bomb Tests.” Wonder if any of the
young hopefuls they send on peace-and-
friendship trips to Moscow ever think of
pasting a few of the posters on the walls
of the Kremlin?
• •
When Sydney City Council alderman
A. J. Cahill was accused of having held-
out an expectation of money to another
alderman the A.L.P. executive suspended
him from membership. He was subse-
quently found guilty and fined. A logical
sequel would seem to be expulsion from
the party, but that could mean losing
Labor’s majority on the council. It’s
very inconsiderate of the courts to put
the boys in a difficult position like this.
• •
Victorian Minister for Works Tom
Maltby declined to appoint a royal com-
mission into the letting of a £650,000
pumping-contract by Melbourne Board
of Works after another contractor com-
plained he had tendered £40,000 less for
the job. The board has had to appoint
its own committee of inquiry.
The board’s decision was made at a
meeting held in camera, and made, too,
THE "LOUD" SPEAKER
without consultation with outside experts,
as knowledgeable board members had
urged ; but there can be no question of
corruption, since the board’s four
top engineers favored the successful
contractor.
Now the board’s committee has to
seek the independent authorities’ opinions,
which should have been taken at the
outset arid before the unpleasant publicity.
• •
“Wusslean”: Taking a big bite at the
cherry, Victoria’s Executive Council has
approved a by-law allowing the Mel-
bourne City Council to proclaim 61 new
“parking areas” —meaning areas in which
motorists are prohibited from parking
unless they pay fees. The by-law will
thus enable the council to levy fees for
parking anywhere in the central city
area, in parts of North, East and West
Melbourne and Carlton, and in some
areas south of the Yarra. It’s progress,
I suppose, but parking-meters by the
thousand already make the city look like
an old-time bush town with a hitching-
post for every horse —the only difference
being that no one was ever slugged a
penny for hitching his horse to a post.
• •
Speaker Lamb, after surviving a cen-
sure-motion in the N. S. Wales Assembly,
allowed himself to be interviewed on a
radio-network, mentioning in the course
of the interview —in which he spoke of
the. threatening gestures, bellowing voices
and the howling and roaring of members
—that because of his position he was
unable to defend himself in the press or
on the air.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Netherlands Ambassador A. M. L.
Winkelman, now on his way back to his
own country on the Nieuw Holland, has
represented the Netherlands in Australia
for 4j years. He has been in the Dutch
Consular and diplomatic service for over
30 years. His first foreign appointment
was as Consul in British East Africa in
1923. After that he was Consul-General
in turn at Johannesburg, Simla and Singa-
pore and, for three years before coming to
Australia, in New Delhi as Netherlands
Ambassador to India. One of his sons
is remaining permanently in Sydney, and
the retiring Ambassador intends to
become a solid barracker for Australia
and will urge more Dutch people to
migrate to this country.
• •
A commendation from the Naval
Board for “competence and perseverance
in aiding injured men in H.M.A.S.
Tobruk despite extreme difficulties” has
come to 24-year-old Lieut. George
Halley; home port, Perth. One of
Tobruk’s ratings was killed and another
wounded when a star-shell casing
accidentally hit them last April. Llalley
gave first-aid and stayed by the men for
several hours. His father, Canon K. B.
Halley, of Perth, was a Cambridge
undergrad, when the Kaiser’s war broke
out, and served with a British unit as a
combatant in France and Flanders, return-
ing to Cambridge to qualify for ordina-
tion after he was demobbed.
ARNOLD HENRY CONRAD, well - known
Brisbane architect. Responsible for,
among other notable building projects in
Queensland, the South Brisbane Hospital
(750 beds), various buildings at the Bris-
bane General Hospital, the Chest Hospital
at Chermside; associated in the new
M.L.C. building and St. John’s Cathedral.
Although Melbourne newspapermen
are cockahoop about Laurie Whitehead’s
latest success in the Mobilgas Round Aus-
tralia Trial, the expert little driver has
taken his win with his usual phlegm, and
with the cool, shrewd appraisal with
which he has overcome obstacles on the
road. He netted just under £5OOO, but, as
usual after his gruelling experiences,
announced he had had trials.
Whitehead was the motoring writer for
Melbourne “Herald” when he won the
1955 Redex Trial, also in a Volkswagen.
He is a genuine journalist, but also a
highly-qualified mechanic, and after his
earlier success he accepted a Volkswagen
agency. He has an abiding faith in Con-
tinental cars and believes they are 20 years
ahead of their American competitors in
some important respects. (The latest
result, with Volkswagens filling the first
six places, is some support for his
preference.)
• •
Gunnar Myrdal, at present delivering
the 1957 series of Dyason Lectures in
Australian cities, is a Swedish economist
who has been Executive Secretary of the
U.N. Economic Commission for Europe
for the past ten years. Even before that
he was a figure of international note. A
lawyer as well as an economist, he
occupied the Chair of Political Economy
at the University of Stockholm for 17
years from 1933. Earlier he had
spent some time in America on a Rocke-
feller Fellowship, and in the 1930’5, under
the auspices of the Carnegie Foundation,
he carried-out a six-year study of the
American negro problem. In between
times he has been a member of the
Swedish Senate, has sat on commissions
dealing with housing, population and
finance; has been a director of the
Swedish Bank and chairman of the
Swedish Post-war Economic Planning
Commission. His recent book, An Inter-
national Economy: Problems and
Prospects, deals with the problem of
raising the living-standards of the under-
developed countries of the world. This
problem will be the chief concern of the
job to which he goes at the end of his
Australian tour —to direct for the U.S.
Twentieth Century Fund a study of the
resources and prospects of the countries
of South-east Asia. With India as his
headquarters, he expects the task to
occupy him for three years.
• •
Barker College, at Hornsby, on
Sydney’s North Shore Line, has produced
its first headmaster—D. A. Lawe Davies,
who has just resigned from house-
mastering at Trinity Grammar, Sydney,
to take over as Head at Guildford
Grammar, Perth. From Barker, he
attended Sydney Tech, and the Uni-
versity of Technology, where he graduated
with honors in chemistry. A son of the
late Archdeacon Ben Davies, former
Principal of the Moore Theological
College, Sydney, he served four and a
half years with the R.A.N. His mother
took first-class honors in English at
Cambridge.
• •
Herewith, Sir John Allum, chairman
of the Auckland Harbor Bridge Authority,
and recently in England to confer with
AUCKLAND BRIDGE
the contractors —Dorman Long and
Cleveland Bridge Construction Co. —-
regarding spanning Auckland’s harbor.
Born in London in 1885, and educated at
Goldsmith College, John Allum worked
as an electrical engineer until 1922, when
he founded the Allum Electrical Co. in
Auckland. Member of the City Council
from 1920 till 1929, and again from 1938
to 1941, Deputy Mayor in this latter
period and Mayor from 1941 to 1953, he
was the founder of the Auckland Trans-
port Board (first chairman) and is a
former chairman of the Auckland Metro-
politan Drainage Board, the Fire Board,
Seddon Technical College, and the
Metropolitan Patriotic Committee.
• •
Since Saturday night (the occasion of
his ceremonial induction) new president
of the B.M.A. in Queensland is Dr.
Leonard Andrew Little; a product of
Melbourne University’s medical school
(1928 vintage), he went to Queensland
immediately after graduating and all his
professional career has been centred
there. With a practice at Morningside
and a surgery on Wickham Terrace, he
was senior surgeon at Brisbane Mater
Hospital from 1938 until 1956—with a
break in the war years when he was in
command of the 7th Field Ambulance
and the Cairns Camp Hospital.
• •
“P.L.”: At his 97th-birthday party in
Auckland last month Teddy Hill sang a
song composed by his brother Alfred at
the age of 17, “Wilt Thou Be My Dearie?”
and followed it up with “Take a Pair of
Sparkling Eyes” and the famous “Waiata


Poi” (last-mentioned takes verve, which
was not lacking). In his time Teddy
sang the principal roles in 13 operas, five
operettas, nine oratorios and 15 cantatas.
His heyday was spent in Wellington,
where, out of singing hours, he won every
championship in the Wellington Bowling
Club.
• •
Britain’s new Vice-Chief of the Air
Staff is an Australian, Perth-born Air-
Marshal E. C. Hudleston, C. 8., C.8.E.,
who served in India after passing-out of
Cranwell R.A.F. College in 1928 and was
flying- and tactics-instructor at the
Turkish Air Force College when the 1939
war came. He was attached to the plan-
ning staff of R.A.F. Middle East head-
quarters in 1941-42, and in a similar post
with the Mediterranean Air Command
he helped plan the Sicilian campaign.
Next he was S.A.S.O. Allied Tactical
Air Force in Sicily and Italy, finishing the
war as a 36-year-old Air-Vice-Marshal
A.O.C. No. 84 Group of the 2nd Tactical
Air Force. Afterwards he became a
member of the Defence Research Policy
Committee and he headed the U.K.
Military Delegation to the Western Union
Military Staff Committee in 1948-50.
Before taking up his latest post Hudleston
flew to Australia and visited many Service
establishments, including Woomera and
Maralinga.
• •
“M.H.E.”: Sydney Smith is the Nestor
of Australian cricket, with which his
connection goes back nearly 70 years—
to an Annandale (N.S.W.) boys’ club in
1888-89. In the* year of'the Common-
wealth’s foundation, when he had become
a very hefty young grade-player—he made four
centuries and 4270 runs in the lower grades
(average, 20.1) and took 535 wickets (average,
AUSTRALIAN CRICKET
15.1) —he sacrificed his cricket career to the
need for a live administrator in the Petersham
Club, and remained honorary secretary for 15
years, going then to the same job in Gordon for
six years.
He was a delegate to the N. S. Wales Cricket
Association for 20 years, vice-president for
eight, before graduating to the presidency, which
he has held for 22 years. For 15 years he was
a delegate to, and honorary secretary of, the
Australian Board of Control, as well as
honorary treasurer for a decade, apart from
numerous other major offices.
The highlight of Smith’s work was probably
his management of the Australian teams to
S. Africa and England in 1921 and to England
in. 1926. On both tours he had a difficult
team, studded with a few problem children who
wanted their own way, but his discipline was
firm and friendly and his urbane public-relations
with the English press did much to nip asperities
in the bud.
In his private life Sid Smith
trained at Hawkesbury College (rounded by his
father, who was the last survivor of a Parkes
Ministry, first Minister foi' Agriculture in N. S.
Wales, an original member of the Federal Parlia-
ment and P.M.G. in the Reid-McLean
Ministry, 1904-05). Sid retired from the service
as a Western Lands Commissioner and did a
wonderful day-and-night job as honorary
secretary of the Australian Prisoners-of-war
Relatives’ Association in World War II and
early peace-time years. In 1956 he was awarded
a C.B.E.
He has published two books about Test-
cricket, and has a third in preparation. At 77
his zest for the game shows no sign of abating,
and no big match at Sydney C.G. would be
complete without his benign face presiding in
the Executive stand.
• •
Pat Lawlor (N.Z.): Familiar to the
sporting crowd in Australia and N.Z. for
many years until his retirement over a
decade ago, Cyril Noble Beasley wrote
his last slip of copy in Wellington on
August 27. Heavily built, and with a
voice to go with it, Cyril was a forceful
critic ol jockeys, boxers and the like
during the years he wrote his sporting
columns for “Truth.” Those who knew
him well always found him kind at
heart. Sydney pressman Tom Beasley is a
brother.
• •
Established by Professor I. B. Condliffe
and his wife in memory of the proressor’s
mother, the Margaret Condliffe Memorial
Prize, awarded for distinction in the
creative arts and humanitarian achieve-
ment, goes this year to Dr. V. E. Galway,
former Professor of Music at Otago Uni-
versity (N.Z.). Professor Condliffe
lectured in economics at Canterbury Uni-
versity College from 1920 to 1926, is now
Professor of Economics at the University
of California, and has lately been visiting
his old stamping-ground in New Zealand.
• •
Another young New Australian has
won academic distinction in Melbourne;
the new Professor of Conservative Medi-
cine is Dr. Julian Reich, who takes over
from Professor C. H. Down next year.
Like most New Australians, Dr. Reich has
had to come up the hard way. He was
sent to Liverpool from Nazi persecution
in Germany when he was 14. His parents
later joined him there and the family
migrated to Australia. Julian worked as
an apprentice in Melbourne, studied at
night to matriculate, graduated brilliantly
Bachelor of Dental Science and later
M. 8., B.S. He’s 33.
• •
H. T. C. (Col) Woodfull, secretary of the
Royal Agricultural Society of Victoria
since 1953, was formerly a barrister and
solicitor and a member of the R.A.S.
Council and its policy-forming committee.
He was also an exhibitor in some sections,
but has handed-over his dog-stud to his
MELBOURNE SHOW
daughter. Col Woodful a brother of
W.M., was a Uni. blue himself in
cricket (and also baseball), and was a
flight-loot in the R.A.A.F.
• •
“Moorapi”: Anthropologist Charles P.
Mountford has the distinction of having
arranged the largest overseas exhibition
of Australian aboriginal art. All items,
painted on bark, were collected by him
during expeditions among primitive tribes
in the north. Adelaide Museum co-
operated in staging the show recently
opened in London. Now a youngster of
67, Mountford is studying ancient cave-
drawings in Europe under a Nuffield
scholarship.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 71, George Mann (“Homme”),
of the original Anzacs: will be remembered as
one of the best by Ist Div. Sigs. all round the
map.
At,Petone (N.Z.), at 80, Leonard Price, holder
of the coveted Gold Star Badge of the R.S.A.
A Boer War veteran and an unselfish worker for
many a worthy cause.
In Brisbane, at 92, Frederick William
Simmonds, who qualified as a pharmacist 71
years ago and was an early member of the
Queensland Pharmacy Board. Victorian-born
(Brighton, 1865), he moved to Brisbane with
his parents at an early age.
At Fremantle (W.A.), at 38, accidentally
drowned while fishing, John Liddell, compere of
A.B.C. Rural Broadcasts. Born at Wagin
(W.A.), he gained a degree in agriculture at
Dookie College (Vic.) and worked in the
Agricultural Departments of Victoria and
Queensland before joining the A.B.C. Twice
wounded in the last war, he left the A.I.F. with
the rank of captain.
In Brisbane, at 62, Angus MacDonald Baxter,
Queensland manager for Australian Estates Co.,
Old Digger and a great worker for Legacy, of
which he was a past-president.
At Nannup (W.A.), at 81, Hemy W. B.
Talbot, geologist and explorer, who for nearly
50 years was associated with the exploration
and mapping of the Westralian interior. He
was a member of the party which, with Canning,
completed the survey of the stock-route from
Wiluna to Hall’s Creek.


ABORIGINALITIES
ANY doubts as to whether the natives
of Papua-New Guinea are absorbing
our modern civilisation can be dismissed
after perusal of the latest annual report
issued by the Registrar of Native Co-
operatives for the Territory. Of one area
on the Papuan sids the registrar reports:
“Two major thefts resulted in successful
prosecutions ; it is an interesting comment
on the efficiency of the co-operative
training courses to note that the standard
of embezzlement was in each case par-
ticularly high.”—“Gelt.”
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Can’taccept “Wilkie’s”
arbitrary classification of formalin as a
mere ‘"placebo” (B. 28/8/’57), In the
Torres Straits islands our only fresh meat
came by chance lugger or cutter from the
40-mile-distant Thursday Island. Butchers
did not wait for orders, but sent the beef
in ice-packed butter-boxes insulated with
wood-shavings. After a fast trip it
opened up perfectly fresh ; but sometimes
the vessel would be becalmed for up to 36
hours, and the meat’s presence could be
sensed before anchor was dropped. Our
well-tried formula then was to wash it in
a weak formalin solution. A posh-pub
chef might have reeled away from it even
then, but to us, having been on an
unrelieved diet of tinned meat for weeks,
it tasted good.
* * * *
“Splodger”; Why do black-and-white
artists draw a one-horse dray showing a
brake? If tlffe load has to be steadied the
breeching (pronounced “britchin”) serves
that purpose. The simple law of leverage
will show why a brake is inadvisable. The
power which the brake would absorb is
transferred to the body of the dray ; that
in its turn is shifted to the shafts, to the
horse’s back. In fact, old-time carriers
claim that a brake applied with force
to a heavily-laden dray going down a
grade would tilt the load so far forward
as to put great pressure on the shafts and
break the horse’s back.
* * * *
“Wandana”: A radio-message concern-
ing a broken-down fishing-boat off Swan
Island recently caused some confusion
until it was discovered that two islands
of the same name lie within a couple of
hundred miles of each other—one in
Port Phillip Bay, the other off the north
coast of Tasmania. The Tassie Swan
Island carries a lighthouse. The fifth
lighthouse to be built in Australian
waters, it has the distinction of having had
its foundation-stone laid by a Governor
and blessed by a Bishop—Sir John
Franklin wielded the trowel, and Bishop
Nixon did the spiritual honors on a visit
made in 1843. Its light shone out for the
first time in 1845.
“E.L.R.”: As a newchum housekeeper
in a Papuan hotel, I was constantly
barging against one particular hard wall
of logic. After looking at a dingy floor
and asking one of the house-boys, “You
no polish this one?” I would fizz with
annoyance at getting an affirmative reply
—until it dawned on me that I was at
fault for twisting a statement into a
question. The boy, in hearty agreement,
meant simply, yes, the floor was not
polished.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: A fearless, friendly bird
when it lives in settled areas, the grey
currawong assumes a different character
when its abode is in upland wastes, which
it favors and in which no other fowl, save
perhaps the flame robin, could get a
living. Invariably Curra has fled at my
approach, dodging like a grey ghost
through the dead gums. With its wild cry
and spectral coloration it has seemed at
such times the true spirit of the wilder-
ness over which it presided. It is a less
destructive fowl (where other birds’ eggs
and young are concerned) than its sable
cousins.
* * * *
The big pine-tree near the
homestead had been taken over by
hundreds of magpies: nobody had ever
before seen so many together. For three
days there was almost a continuous
chatter, though sometimes (interrupted by
an occasional interjector) only one of the
birds would hold forth ; at others, they'd
all be going their hardest. From time to
time three or four of them used to fly off
to distant trees or to the riverbank, where
they appeared to settle-down into
"All right , all right! I'll go quietly!"




conference for all the world like a sub-
committee. Later, they’d return, possibly
to announce their decisions to the meeting
at large. The three days over, this veri-
table Parliament of Fowls broke-up and
the tree was left deserted. Nothing you
can say will persuade those who saw and
heard them that the magpies didnt have
something notable to deliberate.
“Tabba”: Was holed-up in a small
N.S.W. one-horse town with a lot of other
“If you don’t mind, Mavis, I think I’ll change this for a rum.”
people when floods cut all roads. The
pubjican pointed to the parlor, where a
noisy party was in progress. “Shire mob,”
he said. “Can’t get home. Talk about
work! They’ve gone mad—built three
culverts and two bridges since yesteddy’s
breakfast. Y’ better go in and help
celebrate the opening of ’em!”
* * * *
“Nobo”: Camped on a secluded bend
of the Colo River (N.S.W.) we heard,
from far down the valley, someone
whistling Ravel’s “Bolero.” As we
listened the recital grew louder, but it
was a while yet before we spotted him —■
wading slowly upstream, wearing only a
large straw hat. When nearly abreast
of us, and without falter in tone, the
superb whistler climbed the opposite bank
and posted a letter in a roadside box.
Still whistling “Bolero” he entered the
stream and ambled slowly back. Who he
is I know not.
* * * *
“Arkie Dore”: Fire in a graveyard of
old ships at Hobart removed the remains
of the barque Otago, Joseph Conrad’s
first command, and the Togo, “Grey-
hound of the Derwent,” a Reeks-designed
river-steamer built in Launceston and
practically destroyed by fire before
completion. Rebuilt, she rammed the
pleasure-launch Alice on the Tamar with
the loss of three lives, and was rammed
by the equally-fast excursion-vessel
Cartela, running aground on Battery
Point, Hobart, Christmas Day, 1925.
“Vat 79”: From an American magazine-
story set in the Northern Territory I learn
that the Australian drover habitually
carries reading-matter on the track,
usually a weighty tome, such as The Com-
p[ete shakspeare; he lives on emus,
goannas and echidnas ; and the hero
identifies the villain’s tracks by the fact
that he drank out of most of the empty
meat-tins lying along the “trail” to counter
the effects of a week on the rum. With this
fresh in my mind, I came across an article
on Birdsville in an Australian magazine
which stated that the fresh meat for the
town was obtained by a station-owner
shooting a bullock, covering the carcass
with boughs and bags and radioing the
townsfolk to come out and dress the beast
for the town’s needs . . . There is some
excuse for the Yanks.
* * * *
“Kesem”: In Queensland’s sou’-west
three stone - circles set on a bare patch
of ground were recently noticed. Except
for scrub-turkeys’ nesting-mounds—the
eggs could be easily dug put —there
seemed nothing to attract the aborigines
in the miserable bendee scrub there-
abouts. The circles were about 12ft. in
diameter and still fairly even ; the stones
would be about 6in. across. Can Aboites
give any idea of the wherefor?
* * * *
“Manamoi”: The Overland Telegraph
line, completed by Charles Todd’s men in
1872, saved the lives of many wanderers
bushed in its vicinity. It didn’t call for
much bushcraft to head east or west
till the line was reached, but the lost one
still probably wouldn’t know how far, or
in which direction, lay the nearest help
so he’d chop or burn down a pole, break
the line and sit beside it to wait for the
linesman to restore communication be-
tween the rest of the continent and
Darwin, with its overseas cable —then
Australia’s only link with the outside
world. Though the O.T. men would go
to any lengths to help those in trouble,
the authorities were less tolerant of the
destructive practice, which was one reason
for the replacement of the wooden poles
with steel ones. The bushed ones were
thus reduced to the less destructive method
of shooting at the insulators or otherwise
smashing them.
* * * *
“Villefair”: The driver, trying to dig
his bogged-down truck out, paused for
breath and to ask: “Do you know the
bloke who lives in that joint?” I told him
I did ; Old Amos had lived there about
three years. “Well,” he growled, “I’ve
heard Balts and Malts and Dutchies and
Fxitzies and Eyeties and Froggies and
about fourteen other breeds talk, and
always had a fair idea o’ what they were
sayin’,” but that feller spat out a mouth-
ful of a language that never was, and
bolted across the creek again.” It had me
puzzled until Amos came lumbering
back with a crowbar —the very implement
required. When the grateful truckie had
driven off I told the old chap what he had
said. “Funny,” Amos rumbled puzzedly
in his just-south-of-Scotland burr; “I
just said I’d rin across the burn and get a
gavalic. Funny, all right, the felly didn’t
look like a foreigner, but there y’are
—they won’t learn English!”
JOHNNY FOX
Johnny Fox, Johnny Fox
Ragged and russet and sly,
What have you seen, this moonlit night,
As you’ve been trotting by ?
I’ve seen the moon, like a pool of snow,
Cooling the summer plain,
Where sheep like shadows scatter and
spread,
Then cluster and flock again,
Staring with emerald and agate eyes
At where 1 might have been.
The horses snort and gallop and stop,
Wondering what they’ve seen;
And the farmers wife, with tired eyes,
A child on her angled hip,
Who opens the kitchen door and lets
The lantern’s patterns slip
In a spill of gold that makes the shadows
Go leaping from their light,
While the woman stands and listens and
says,
“There’s a fox about tonight.”
But the dogs that rattle their rusted
chains,
Feeling their hackles creep,
Can drop their heads on their dusty paws
And waste the night with sleep ;
The cock that crows his false alarm
Can calm his foolish hens;
The restless calves with moon-round eyes
Sleep in their milk-warm pens.
For I know where the farmer’s fox
With tongue and teeth of steel,
Has snapped its bitter, hidden jaws ;
I heard the rabbit squeal.
By the painful dust at the burrow’s
mouth,
It’s there for me to pluck.
I know no grace, but as my thanks,
I’ll leave a paw for luck.
N.S.W.
ANNE BEIL.


TTAVING had a good season, Old
Billy S., nigh on 80, decided to invest
in a radio. He brought it out from the
city in his pig-cart, cleared a place for it
on the front-room table, and tried in vain
to get it to work. Darkness beat him, but
straight after milking next morning he
enlisted the aid of his neighbor, who
explained the mysteries of aerials, bat-
teries and earths, stressing that the last-
named must make direct contact with the
ground. Next afternoon, hearing a sym-
phonic blast issuing from Billy’s place,
he called in to congratulate him on
getting the set to work. Billy had earthed
the set efficiently—via a good-sized hole
in the cedar table, which, like Billy him-
self, was a priceless family heirloom.
~-“Valsy.”
* * * *
“Abi Tonus”: The Commonwealth
Serum Laboratories find it difficult to
obtain enough venom from taipans to pro-
duce adequate supplies of antidote —most
people just dont like
getting to grips with
this extra-lethal
variety; and once a
chap has been bitten,
one would think he’d
shy clear of them.
However, Ken Slater,
of the Department of
Agriculture, Stock and
Fisheries, Port
Moresby, remains a
redoubtable catcher
of all varieties.
Among other things
Ken has learned that
taipans, like humans,
do not relish interfer-
ence in family affairs.
Finding a couple in
marital embrace, he
promptly grabbed the
female and bagged her,
but the male displayed
astounding ferocity and
speed in successfully
burying his fangs in the
forearm of the noted
catcher. The male also
securely bagged, Ken
thought of himself,
applied a tourniquet,
incised the wound, pre-
pared an injection of
anti-venene, and gave
it to himself in a vein.
The Department of
Civil Aviation picked
up a distress-signal, and an aircraft had
Ken in Port Moresby within a couple of
hours.
* * * *
“Notca”: I was on a holiday-run with
a Western N.S.W. mailman when he gave
a bush bloke a lift. That passenger didn’t
say a word for 50 miles, then, as he got
out he drawled: “I reckon we passed five-
quid along that there track.” After he’d
gone I said: “Why’inell didn’t he get you
to stop?” The mailman laughed and
explained that the bloke of few words had
been silently assessing the value of every
crow’s-head, hawk’s-head, fox-scalp and
pig-snout he’d seen.
* * * *
. .
G.W. • T be Aboite who was anxious
about the risk taken by the shag that
de< l orat^ s, 0 . m T r P or ® ° ne ’ tbe
statue of Sir John Franklin in Hobart can
. *°. * b * be sa * d b * rd bas , been sb °h
IS . h, 610 ,® shot and *; or eve i,, will be shot
wbl e he perches there. Theie is never
a da y passes without someone aiming a
camera in its direction.
* * * *
A/r „ ~ ,
. ss M ‘ : Our eight-year-old devour-
mg Mary Grant Bruce s beloved books,
raises f a P? mt .MnT PUZZIed
parents. When the Billabong men go on
day-long rides, they carry packets of
sandwiches in their pockets. When the
girls go too, the black boy and his
horse are loaded-up with food and billy-
cans for the whole party. Don’t these
southerners know that all self-respecting
stockmen (women and children included)
“ You’ll excuse John not joining us — he's become very keen on
exercise lately."
carry their own lunch, tea and sugar,
each in his own saddle-bag and quart-
F
* * * *
years ago I started on my
1 first day * s of toil> e mu-bobbing out
wes t e rn N.S.W. on a sheep-station
owned by ° ne “ Hungry ” 1 § ot five * bob
day probably because I was only 12
afld / h ’ er F efore Q y nl half a man .
Qf course thin y gs were cheaper then .
“Hungry” only charged us five-bob a
week for the house we lived in; five-
bob for the grass our two horses ate:
another five for the week's wood and
five for the rent of two cows. Mum did
well to manage on the £2 ss. left after
Hungry” had taken his quid. But we
didn't need to buy a newspaper;
“Hungry” let us have his after he was
finished with it—on the understanding
tbat Dad milke d the homestead-cows on
Sunday morning. We liked those papers ;
we saw the world through them, and,
after wed finished reading, Dad papered
* be sitting-room walls and ceiling with
them. It was quite colorful,
I emu-bobbed five acres of “Hungry’s”
back-paddocks. The big logs I roiled
!° gether Wlth 3 c L rowbar - 11 took al! da V
to get some where they were wanted
then there was all the small stuff to
gather up in armfuls; real emu-bobbing,
this. Those fires glowing on the hillside
at night after I’d stirred them up was a
real sight. But that five acres gave me
good hard muscles, a supple back and an
insight into the hardest job in the world.
Today I saw a North Coast (NSW.)
dairy-cocky emu-bobbing. He drove his
Ferguson down his paddock, lowered the
,A . A
seat a lo<> on the tray gathered
a few sticks, climbed to the seat? moved
along a bit, repeated the process. He
said he was “doing all right.” It cost
him five-bob a day for petrol, and he got
a rebate on his tax for it.
If only old Ferguson had been bora
about 30 years earlier!
WIRE-BUSTER.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established, 18178.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman) F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Business.Rolloty.Etc.
An Irishman’s Bonus
QUITE one of the most
amusing financial episodes
of the past few years has been
the sharemarket’s behavior in
respect of the B.H.P. bonus-
issue.
This two-for-nine bonus-
issue, let it at once be
emphasised, has been sought-
after by shareholders and
financial critics galore for years
past, and by reason of the fact
that it is to be financed out of
share-premiums charged in
time gone by it will do no more
than bring share-capital up to
the level of shareholders’ con-
tributions and relate the
dividend more in proportion to
funds employed.
But the sharemarket has been
sweating on this issue for so
long that it was determined to
be exuberant about it, and
since the last cash-issue of
March this year the fully-paid
shares have climbed strongly
from 40s. to as high as 60s.— ;
a very steep rise indeed in the
short space of six mopths.
About 4s. of the rise took place
after announcement of the
bonus-issue, since when there
has been a reaction to about
595.
The net rise has added
roughly £35 million to the
sharemarket valuation of the
B.H.P. undertaking.
And what does the share-
market really get out of it?
Well, let chairman Colin York
Syme tell the essential facts of
the story:
Before the making of any further
share-issue for cash your board
considers that the amount con-
tributed by shareholders as share-
premiums should be distributed to
shareholders in the form of fully-
paid shares. This will mean an
issue in the ratio of one fully-paid
share for every four-shares-and-a-
half held at the time the issue is
made.
Shareholders will understand
that this step will not enable us to
earn any larger amount of profit,
nor will it permit any greater
amount to be distributed in divi-
dends. When these new shares
rank for dividend there will be a
proportionate reduction in the rate
of dividend on all shares.
So far as the individual share-
holder is concerned, the end-result
is that he is likely to receive
approximately the same amount of
dividend as he would have received
had the share-premium not been
distributed.
Even after that matter-of-fact
announcement all went happy
as a marriage-bell in the share-
market. Investors were
determined to be joyful.
But what extra, exactly, is
likely to flow from dividends
“ What's Wrong with your old one?”
into shareholders’ pockets as a
result of this issue?
By way of dividends, so long
as the chairman’s remarks
apply, exactly less than nothing.
It has been generally
assumed, in valuing B.H.P.
shares, that one or more new
issues of shares for cash would
be made over the next three
years, and the board has said
that one such issue will be con-
sidered during the currency of
the present financial year.
Is was assumed by many
that the prevailing div.-rate (10
p.c.) would be paid on these
new shares issued for cash.
But the chairman has made it
clear that, following the bonus,
the div.-rate on the old shares
will be reduced, presumably to
something between 8 p.c. and
84 p.c.
It follows that the div. on
the new shares will be some-
thing between 8 p.c. and 84
p.c. Certainly not (immediately,
anyway) the old rate of 10 p.c.
that one would have expected
had not the bonus-issue been
made.
Had there been no bonus-
issue, and had the div.-rate
been reduced to, say, 8| per
cent., there might have been
some muttering about it.
But, as it turns out, the
sharemarket is jubilant.
It is an amusing sidelight
indeed on the psychology of
a sharemarket that periodically
thinks in sensational terms
rather than in terms of £ s. d.
in the pocket or in the dividend
account.
What the B.H.P. board has
done has been entirely com-
mendable. No financial Jesuitry
is involved. The board has
been thoroughly straight-
forward in declaring to be
capital what has, in reality,
always been capital. And, in
the chairman’s addresses of
recent years, it has been
explained to shareholders that
in this present period of great
capital-development at New-
castle and Port Kembla vast
sums will be needed to finance
that development, and that
profits would have to stand
their share of the cost. The
rest would come from new
share-issues and from borrow-
ings. Clearly it is no time to
load the undertaking with
excessive dividend - commit-
ments on which income-tax has
to be paid previously at 7s. 6d.
in the £.
But it remains to be seen
whether the sharemarket has
taken all these factors into
consideration in “upping” the
valuation of B.H.P. by £35
million over the past six
months.
Yield, allowing for the bonus,
is now about 3| p.c. Even if
a one-for-six cash-issue at
par comes along, and the div.
stays at 8| p.c., the yield will
still be only 3.7 p.c.
Six months ago B.H.P. shares
could be bought to return 5 p.c.
Profits for 1956-57
f\N the whole, company
earnings for 1956-57 are
turning out to be rather better
than expected. That is, if share-
market response to profit-
announcements can be taken
as a guide.
The disclosure of a con-
solidated net profit of £628,453
(after £230,687 depreciation and
£300,896 income-tax) by John
Fairfax, Ltd., Sydney—which
compares with a net figure of
£354,532 (£158,598 depreci-
ation and £171,193 tax) in the
preceding year—was the signal
for a rise of about 3s. in the
co.’s ord. shares. These now
stand at 235. 6d., whereas they
were below par for most of
the previous twelve months.
John Fairfax, which controls
“The Sydney Morning
Herald,” “Sun,” “Sun-Herald,”
“Woman’s Day,” etc., will pay
a final div. of 4 p.c., compared
with an interim of 34 p.c.
Bradford Cotton Mills has
earned a slightly bigger profit
for the year to June 30 and
has maintained the 124 p.c.
ord. div. quite comfortably.
Burlington Mills, an associate
rayon company, has earned
an increased profit, but nothing
has been heard about the
experience of the new tufted-
carpet venture. Bradford shares
remain comparatively depressed
at 365. 6d., partly because
of market fears about the effect
of the Japanese trade-agree-
ment, but about which the co.
itself does not seem to be quite
so apprehensive.
Not all company-earnings
show improvement. Frederic
Ash, of Newcastle, reports a
drop of £29,291 (to £72,419) in
its earnings for the past year,
but as the result was still equal
to nearly 27 p.c. on capital
there was no difficulty in
maintaining the 15 p.c. div.
The sharemarket generally
remains selectively strong.
There has been a brisk rise in
support for A.R.C. Industries
in Melbourne, in which city
demand for shares in Aus-
tralian Cement has also been
striking. Herald and Weekly
Times has strengthened to 265.
4d., 1.C.1. to 555. 6d., Henry


V
X 7
V
wife and I . . .
We’ve been partners in running our home a
long time. It was hard work at first; but things
are a lot easier now we budget and have our
own A.N.Z. Cheque Accounts.*
What we like most about A.N.Z. is the con-
venience of having both Cheque and Savings
Accounts at the one Branch. The children
particularly enjoy the idea of having their
savings accounts at our Bank makes them
feel quite grown up.
* Our free booklet, "Bank Accounts for Every-
one,” is now available at all A.N.Z. Bank
branches. Ask for your copy .
A*N*Z
* * »
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED —Cheque Accounts
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LlMlTED— Savings Accountt
ANZ4I7. iBR
Jones to 625. 6d. again, and
Australian Paper Manu-
facturers to 295.
In Sydney the strength of
Bank of N.S.W. shares has
been a feature. For a while it
looked as though they would
reach £4O, but they then
reacted to £39 ss. Awaiting
the annual accounts, J. and A.
Brown shares have risen
confidently to 255.
Judging by the central
bank’s survey, it would appear
that a good deal of the invest-
ment funds supporting the
Australian sharemarket have
been coming from the pastoral
industry.
Central Bank Survey
'"THE year 1956-57 was, in
the words of Dr. H. C.
Coombs, governor of the
central bank, “marked by a
dramatic improvement in the
health of the Australian
economy.”
The growth and develop-
ment characteristic of the
post-war period continued, but
on a sounder basis, and with
a considerable easing of infla-
tionary pressures. More
stability developed in the labor
market, and the rate of increase
in prices slackened, reflecting
levels of expenditure more in
accord with the flow of
resources available.
Australia’s international bal-
ance -of - payments benefited
from the marked improvement
in export income, due primarily
to an increase in the wool-clip
and to significantly higher
wool prices. Import-restric-
tions, too, became fully effec-
tive during the year.
International Reserves
As 'a result of these develop-
ments, and also of the con-
tinued inflow of capital, inter-
national reserves, which had
fallen to a dangerously low
level, recovered to a more
satisfactory position. As a
consequence, the Government
relaxed certain import-controls.
With the emergence of
greater stability in the internal
economy, the central bank was
able to take some steps to
allow a greater degree of flexi-
bility in credit policy, follow-
ing earlier measures to halt
the growth of inflationary
pressures.
Profit Changes
The checking of inflation has
brought more competitive con-
ditions generally, says the
central-bank report, and there
has been more evidence than
in recent years of variation in
the profit-experience of in-
dividual businesses.
Some enterprises have passed
through periods of difficulty.
In some cases there have been
the temporary problems of
adjustment after a period of
inflation, but, in others, the
difficulties seem to be more
fundamental and to reflect the
fact that, in a reasonably
balanced economy, the capacity
of businesses to adjust them-
selves to changing conditions
of demand and to competitive
costs is of first importance.
Suez —and After
The world commodity posi-
tion was affected by a variety
of influences. The nationalisa-
tion of the Suez Canal and
subsequent events led to
increased purchases to avoid
interruption of supply, but
there was a partial reversal
later in the year as the crisis
receded.
Generally, both consumption
and production of the major
commodities expanded
throughout the world, with a
sharpening in competition for
markets and, in some cases,
the development of a feeling
of uncertainty. Jn the main,
however, the commodity posi-
tion remained sound.
The Trend of Prices
Australia’s export prices
were, on the average, 12 per
cent, higher than in 1955-56,
and by June the export-price
index was 11 per cent, higher
than a year earlier. This
improvement was primarily due
to the increase in wool prices,
which in June were 18 per cent,
higher than a year earlier.
Import prices at the end of
June were about 3 per cent,
higher than a year earlier.
Rural production in Aus-
tralia during 1956-57 was again
at a high level.
Substantial increases in out-
put were recorded in the pas-
toral areas of the Common-
wealth. Sheep and cattle
numbers increased to record
levels. There were associated
increases in the production of
wool, of about 11 per cent, to
1565 million lb., and in the
production of beef and veal to
804,000 tons, both of which
exceeded previous records.
Production of metals was
well maintained during the
year, and further progress was
made in the development of
the mineral resources of
northern Australia.
Higher Production
Industrial output in total
appears to have increased over
the year, but diverse move-
ments were recorded in the
various industrial sectors.
The value of all goods and
services produced was prob-
ably 7 to 8 per cent, higher
than in 1955-56. Included in
this total is the increased value
of our exports ; production for
the domestic market would
have risen something less than
the total. But even with a fail
in imports of goods and
services of some 9 per cent.,
the value of supplies available
to the domestic market from
all sources was greater than in
1955-56.
Most goods were readily


ABSOLUTE
SECURITY
With an Unvarying Return!
THE
Government-Guaranteed
SYDNEY WATER
BOARD
5 5 /l% LOAN
SECURITY
Q The Loan is secured on the Board’s income;
9 Half-yearly payment of interest and repayment of principal
at maturity are unconditionally guaranteed by the N.S.W.
Government;
# An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland,
Western Australia and Tasmania.
HIGHER INTEREST FOR 6, 10 OR 20 YEARS
See how you will profit over 6 years!
APPLY TODAY AT ANY—
© Commonwealth Trading Bank;
© Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
© Bank of New South Wales;
© The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited;
© Or through your Stockbroker;
@ Or at the Sydney Water Board offices.
Water
... f
..
Underwritten by Ian Potter & Co.
M.W.127
available, and stocks generally
appeared adequate, although
the lower level of imports
resulted in the running-down of
stocks of some imported goods.
More “Australian-made”
Not for some considerable
time has so small a proportion
of the supplies used in Aus-
tralia come from abroad as in
1956-57. For the first time
since 1945-46 import and other
payments abroad for goods and
services comprised less than 17
per cent, of the supplies
absorbed by the Australian
market.
High Spending
The level of expenditure
rose once again to a new
record. The continued strength
of demand in Australia stems,
on the one hand, from the
consumer-spending associated
with rising population, prices
and incorpes, and, on the other,
from the high level of invest-
ment expenditure which
characterises a rapidly develop-
ing economy. However, the
rate of growth in expenditure
has been slackening in recent
years and this trend continued.
With production well main-
tained, a higher level of
employment and strongly rising
export receipts, the real
national income increased.
Farm income rose strongly,
higher wool receipts more than
offsetting rising costs and a
fall in the value of the wheat-
crop. Other business incomes
were also higher.
But More Savings
Personal-consumption expen-
diture did not rise at the same
rate as personal income,
and was less than in the
previous year. It seems that
the greater part of the increase
in farm incomes was added
to savings, but the increase in
the demands of other sections
of the community was also
more restrained. There was
no further increase, for
example, in the amount of
hire-purchase finance drawn
upon for durable consumer-
goods. Personal saving, conse-
quently, was at its highest in
four years, and significantly
greater than in 1955-56.
Investment
Expenditure for private
investment was also steadier.
The volume of investment in
fixed capital-equipment fell,
actual expenditure being almost
the same as last year, while
prices rose. Nevertheless, the
level of expenditure was still
high ; it was equal to about the
same proportion of our total
output of goods and services
as it has averaged over the
past 10 years.
Expenditure by public
authorities on goods and
services rose to meet higher
wages and prices and the needs
of an increasing population.
Credit Policy
Credit policy in 1956-57 was
mainly characterised by the
continued application, with
some modifications, of the
action already taken by the
central bank as part of the
general pattern of measures
introduced early in 1956 to
halt the rising inflationary
pressure of expenditure, which
was running ahead of available
supplies and severely straining
the balance-of-payments.
Through the year there was
increasing evidence of improve-
ment, both internally and inter-
nationally, but modification of
the restraints on imports and
on credit did not become
possible until the year was well
advanced. Import - controls
were eased in January and
again in April. Following the
relaxation of import-controls
in April, the central bank
announced in May that it had
informed the banks that the
economy appeared to have
moved towards a condition of
reasonable balance, although
there were factors developing,
arising particularly from the
balance -of - payments, which
could lead to a renewal of
inflationary pressures.
The bank stated that while
it would not be appropriate
at that time to make any
general relaxation of credit, it
was no longer necessary for
total advances of the banking
system to fall further, apart
from normal seasonal varia-
tions.
Bank Advances
The actual level of bank-
advances is not a reliable
indication of the influence
bank-lending is currently exer-
cising on expenditure.
Firstly, account must be
taken of the general financial
conditions of which bank-
lending is only a part. A
rising level of deposits makes
more credit funds available
and generally reduces the need
for bank advances. Secondly,
the great bulk of outstanding
bank-advances reflects expen-
diture in the past and has no
influence on current expendi-
ture. The level of advances
('Continued on page 31)


LIABILITIES.
£
ASSETS.
Central Banking Business—
4,000,000
Gold and balances held abroad (including money at short call) .. 464,847, <12
Capital
. • . .
• •
• •
Australian notes and coin . . ..
2,163,282
Reserve Fund .. .
Cheques and bills of other banks
... 12.795.521
Rural Credits Department—
2,714,000
Commonwealth Government Securities (including
Commonwealth
Capital .. .. . . ..
Treasury Bills)
Reserve Fund
Securities of other governments and of local and semi-trovern-
Mortgage Bank Department—
mental authorities
. . 48,667,696
Capital
5,428,000
Bills receivable and remittances in transit
Reserve Fund
613,461
Bank premises (at cost less amounts written off)
579,198
Industrial Finance Department—
Loans, advances, etc. (after deducting provision
for debts
con-
Capital . . .
- sidered had or doubtful) :—
Reserve Fund
Central Banking Business .. ..
Rural Credits Department
.. 41,999,075
Special Reserve —Premium on gold
35,945,283
Mortgage Bail k Department
5,302,087
sold ..
♦ .
4,754,954
Industrial Finance Department
.. 25,473,025
Notes on issue
Deposits—
• •
380,881,808
Other assets ..
Special accounts of trading banks
340,334,000
Other deposits of trading banks
» .■
31,196,072
Other deposits, bills payable and
other liabilities
(including
provision for contingencies)
269,692,009
Total
1,052,804,126
Total
1,052,804,126
Note. —Inter-Departmental accounts totalling £35,368,385 have been offset.
Dr.
PROFIT
AND
LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1957
T>.
Central Banking Business —
£
By Profits (after provision for contingencies)—
£
To National Debt Sinking Fund
..
. .
4,370,854
Central Banking Business .. ..
tt
8,740,708
To Commonwealth Bank Reserve
Fund ..
4,370,354
Note Issue Department
.. 10,053,635
Note Issue '■Department —-
Rural Credits Department
194,670
To Commonwealth Treasury
• • . «
10,053,635
Mortgage Bank Department .. .. ..
94,776
Rural Credits Department —
Industrial Finance Department
To Rural Credits Department Reserve Fund
97,340
To Rural Credits Development Fund
97,339
Mortgage Bank Department —
To Mortgage Bank Department Reserve Fund
. .
94,776
Industrial Finance Department —
To Industrial Finance Department
Reserve Fund
385,869
Total
19,469,667
Total ..
.. 19,469,667
We certify that the above
Balance Sheet, compiled
from Statements
furnished by the several Offices of the Bank, is
true and
correct.
(Sgd.) J. B. WRIGHT, Secretary.
(Sgd.) H. C.
COOM BS,
Gotwnor.
(Sgd.) W. P. ESKDALE, Chief Accountant.
Sidney,
23rd August, 1957.
LIABILITIES.
Capital .. .. .. .. .. ... ..
Reserve fund
Deposits, bills payable and other liabilities (including provision
for contingencies)
Balances due to other banks .. .. .. ..
&
£
5,429,000
2,735,390
243,252,444
64(3,108
ASSETS. £
Coin, bullion, notes and cash at bankers ., .. .. .. It), 0(59, 328
- Money at short call—(a) London .. .. .. .. .. 1,875,000
(b) Elsewhere .. .. .. .. —
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank .. .. .. 39,150,000
Cheques and bills of other banks and balances with and due
from other banks ... . . . . .. . . ... . • 3,063,932
Treasury Bills —(a) Australian Governments .. .. .. 8,000,000
(b) Other Governments .. .. .. .. —
Public securities (excluding
treasury bills)—(a) Australian Governments .. .. .. 38,615,205
(b) Other Governments .. . .. .. —
' (c) Local and semi-governmental-authorities .. —
Bills receivable and remittances in transit .. .. .. 31,487,481
Bank premises (at cost less amounts written off) .. .. .. 4,060,981
Loans, advances and bills discounted (after deducting provision
for debts considered bad or doubtful) .. .. .. .. 106,251,934
Other assets .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ». 3,499,081
Total ..
252,062,94 2
Total
252,062,942
Dr. PROFIT AND LOSS
FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1957
Cr.
To National Debt Sinking Fund .. .. .. .. ....
To Commonwealth Trading Bank Reserv e Fund .. ..
£
300,444
300,444
By Profits (after provision for contingencies)
#
£
600,88§
Total
600,888
Total
600,888
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements
(Sgd.) A. N. ARMSTRONG, General Manager.
(Sgd.) S. J. HEATLEY, Chief Accountant.
furnished by the several Offices of the Bank, is
(Sgd.) H. C.
true and correct.
COOMBS; Governor.
Sydney, 23rd August, 1957.
LIABILITIES.
Reserve Fund .. . . .. .. .. .. ..
Depositors’ balances and accrued interest .. .. ..
Other liabilities (including provision for contingencies) ..
£"
.. 721,494,087
17,967,636
*
ASSETS.
Australian notes and coin .. .. . •
Cash balances and money at short call .. .. .. . •
Commonwealth Government Securities (including Common-
wealth Treasury Bills) .. .. ., .. .. ..
Securities of other governments and of local and semi-govem-
mental authorities .. .. • • • • • • »•
Bank premises (at cost less amounts written off)
Loans and advances .. .. • • • • • • • •
£
941,842
66,901,641
467,087,934
82,212,754
7,384,475
110,745,283
Totat.
.. 748,942,709
Total .. .. .. .. ....
748,942,709
Dr. PROFIT AND
LOSS FOIl YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1057
Cr.
To National Debt Sinking Fund .. .. ,.
To Savings Bank Reserve Fund .. .. ..
£
., 290,193
By Profits (after provision for payments amounting to £394,386
due to and £84,353 due by State Authorities under Savings
Bank Amalgamation Agreements and after provision for con-
£
580,886
Total
580,386
Total
580,386
We certify that the above Balance Sheet,
(Sgd.) H. G. T. SEARLE, Chief Superintendent.
(Sgd.) A. MUTTON, Chief Accountant.
compiled
from Statements
furnished by the several Offices of the Bank, is. true and correct.
(Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
Sydney, 28rd August, 1957.
Certificates as to the correctness of these
Account*
have been given
by-the Auditor-General for the Commonwealth .(Mr. H. C. Newman).
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET ns at 30th June, 1967
Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th .June, 1957
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th .Tune, 1957


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Tosca”
After being hors de combat
with a throat-infection, Ronald
Dowd returned to the Eliza-
bethan Theatre’s Sydney pro-
duction of “Tosca” and sang
the role of Cavaradossi, the
painter who falls victim to both
his own generosity in harbor-
ing an escaped political
prisoner and to the envy of
Police Chief Scarpia in his
possession of Tosca.
Taking no risks with his
larynx, Dowd sang at about
three-quarter power, and hung
only momentarily to his high
notes, which vitiated somewhat
the full effects of his two big
arias, “Strange Harmony of
Contrasts” and “The Stars
Were Brightly Shining.” Still,
he imparted a good degree of
emotion into his singing, and
his playing of the role lacked
nothing of ardor.
Joan Hammond, given more
vocal and dramatic scope in
this title-role than as Desde-
mona, endowed both singing
and acting with fine fire ; in
the dramatic events of Act II
leading to her stabbing of
Scarpia she was outstanding,
and she sang the splendid
“Love and Music” in wonder-
ful voice.
John Shaw’s Baron Scarpia
was a ruthlessly dominating
figure, and master of every
situation ; in the scene in his
apartments at the Farnese
Palace, in which he directs the
torture-examination of Cavara-
dossi, he was at his authorita-
tive best. He drew Scarpia,
too, as the complete sancti-
monious hypocrite in the
church scene, where, against
the background of the “Te
Deum,” he seeks spiritual
reinforcement while rounding-
off his plot to destroy Cavara-
dossi and gain Tosca for
himself.
This same “Te Deum,”
incidentally, was the weak spot
in the presentation ; a debili-
tated rendering, instead of
a thundering paean of praise.
In the first act, too, conductor
Eric Clapham allowed the
orchestra a swollen volume
that would have drowned
singers of less power than
Shaw and Miss Hammond.
Baritone John Young sang
well and gave a touch of
humor to the role of the
bumbling Sacristan. Neil
Easton was Angelotti, whose
escape from prison sets the
tragedy in train, and Gregory
Dempsey was the twisted
police-agent Spoletti.
Production was by Arnold
Matters; Tim Walton’s
costumes were sumptuous, his
settings adequate.
❖ ❖ *
“The Queen and the
Rebels”
There is a kind of Shavian
paradox in. Ugo Betti’s play
about a prostitute who dies like
a queen, while the queen dies as
a peasant, but Betti’s facile in-
vention of argument and situa-
tion has a richer quality than
Shavian wit; human wisdom
and compassion, rather than
brilliance, constantly illuminate
his political philosophy and,, as
far as the translation shows it,
he is more concerned with
poetry than with clever phrase.
A group of revolutionaries
are trying to find the queen of
the overthrown monarchy be-
cause her continued existence
remains as a gathering-point for
the ideas of the old guard. In
a hillside village they detain a
group of travellers who are
about to cross the border and
who include two women.
One of them is the queen, now
a terror-stricken peasant after
eluding her pursuers for five
years since they tried to
assassinate her. The other, a
hard and brassy prostitute,
discovers her identity and is at
first inclined to sell her out, but
then takes pity on her and helps
her to escape. She, the pros-
titute, is subsequently mistaken
for the queen and, in the ensu-
ing trial, finds a dignity of spirit
in which she prefers execution
to signing an alleged confession
of the sins of the queen.
Basically, the idea of the play
is only a clever paradox, but
the author has woven a wealth
of poetry and philosophy
through it and filled it with very
human people. James Lang’s
production for the Sydney
Genesians is quite beautifully
done, with complete awareness
of the foregoing values. His
cast rise equally well to the
occasion, with that admirable
actor Marcel Wattel dominat-
ing the proceedings as the Com-
missar of the revolutionaries.
The queen and the prostitute,
both roles rich with oppor-
tunities, were played by
Kathleen Gaffney and
Frederica Shaw. Miss Gaffney’s
version" of a harmless, hunted,
terrified creature was excep-
tionally moving, and, in the
more difficult part, Miss Shaw
swung from selfish opportunism
to her new-found dignity with
considerable spirit and convic-
tion. A little more fear and
weariness and less hardness in
the early passages might have
made her transformation even
better.
Barry Jenkins, as a hare-and-
hounds character, and Robert
Gerrard, as the revolutionary
general, were also excellent.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Cross Section”
Years ago, when William
Orr was presenting his “intimate
revues” at the Metropolitan
Theatre under the shadow of
Sydney’s Central Railway, one
commented —possibly a little
patronisingly that they no-
where approached “the great
rich art of vaudeville.” While
it is not quite necessary to
swallow those words, it must
at least be noted that Mr.
Orr’s shows, long since an
institution at the Phillip-street
Theatre, are something of a
phenomenon in their success—
the last one,- “Around the
Loop,” ran for well over a
year and you couldn’t buy a
pew for love nor money, even
in the last week of it.
There appears to be no secret
about the formula bright,
smart topical stuff, put over
with boundless energy, and
handsomely and unsparingly
dressed —and it is just as effec-
tively applied in his latest show,
“Cross Section.”
When, for instance, Ruth
Cracknell sings of Lever Bros.’
hope, “Aunt Jenny with the-
light brown hair,” or dines with
genuine Chaplinesque pathos
and comedy in an exclusive
restaurant, she quite deservedly
brings the house down. So,
too, does the whole ensemble
when they deal with “Manic
Espresso”—“you can’t keep a
good cup down.” June Salter’s
sweet-and-sour numbers, Noel
Brophy’s “Little Old Lady
from Palmer Street,” Peter
Batey’s “Truth in Advertising,”
Dolore Whiteman’s “Frankie
and Johnnie,” Rhonny Gabriel’s
“Not Negotiable,” Yolanda and
Antonio Rodrigues’ dancing in
“Caribbean Bazaar” —all these
are very bright indeed, and if
there is an odd flat spot or two
in the show, well this com-
mentator for one is not going
out on limb to tell Mr. Orr his
business.
Richard Lewis
The frigid atmosphere of so
many oratorio performances
clings close to many English
singers, and some of the people
who stayed away from Richard
Lewis’s Brisbane recital prob-
ably did so because they
expected a stodgy evening sung
with a chilly perfection.
Lewis showed that he could
sing oratorio superbly, but
what was delightful and
unexpected was his warm and
moving performance of several
songs by Duparc, a Frenchman
unduly neglected by recitalists.
Having these French songs in
place of the usual group of
German lieder gave the pro-
gramme a welcome freshness.
One might, suspect that
Richard Lewis is an opera-
singer at heart, for he reacts
instantly to the slightest hint of
drama in a song. Beautifully as
the quieter Duparc songs were
sung, it was in the throbbing
climax of “Phidyle” that he
touched the highest emotional
point of the recital. Accom-
panist Geoffrey Parsons co-
operated in giving the piano
part a richness almost
orchestral in tone, and in bring-
ing the atmosphere of summer
lields to the finest of French
love-songs.
The recital followed the
tradition of beginning with a
group of early songs, which, as
often happens, gave the
unintended impression that the
art of song became more
passionate as the centuries
passed. Some Elizabethan
songs were cool in emotional
temperature through no fault
of the singer, but he made
“Waft Her, Angels,” from
Handel’s “Jephtha,” a minia-
ture drama in itself. This
showed what oratorio can be
like in the right hands —more
profound and stirring through
a complete absence of dreary
piety.
The rest of the programme
was dramatic in one way or
another. Lewis sang his
English songs in full-blooded
style, and revealed them in
their earthy qualities. Nothing
was either pale or ineffectual.
Particularly good was Butter-
worth’s setting of “Is My Team


Now even faster handling of bulk grain!
LYSAGHT
Grain Augers
A completely new type now available to fill
and empty Lysaght silos. Features Include:
• Unique centre-drive unit (patent pending
No. 22636/56) as shown in insert below.
• Improved capacity.
• All working parts com-
pletely encased.
• Adjustable c hute
tube.
E OU PUT
CLEANING
HOLE AND
COVER
DRIVING
PULLEY
INPUT
--V
HOW TO SELECT A VERTICAL AUGER TO FIT
A LYSAGHT SILO—CENTRE FILLING ONLY
SILO CAPACITY IN BUSHELS
SILO 1,000 2,000 2,000 3,000 3,500 4,500 8,500
ERECTED (squat)
Without Earth Ring Vl6lO V 2012 V 2412 V 2412 V 2314 V 3214 V 3614
With Earth Ring . V 2012 V 2012 V 2814 V 2814 V 2814 V 3214 V4OlB
SILO AND EARTH RING PRICES
(F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
Bushel Earth
Silo Silo Ring
1.000 £l3B £l6 15 0
2,000 £2ll £25 5 0
2.000 (Squat) £2ll £33 10 0
3,000 £275 £33 10 0
3.500 £298 £33 10 0
4.500 £453 £4l 5 0
Write for further Information to:
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. in all Capital Cities or
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE WORKS
A39AC
Ploughing?” The dying plough-
man slipping away from life
holding the hand of the friend
who was waiting to claim his
sweetheart could hardly be
better acted and sung. This
was English song at its best.
D.J.M.
'William Clausen
Remembering lesser 'folk-
singers, one went along to
Sydney Town Hall to hear this
young American guitar-toting
balladeer with no little trepida-
tion. It needed no more than
a few minutes to' discover that
William Clauson is a natural-
born troubadour and that he
makes his expertly played
guitar an integral part of his
art and not just a haphazard,
vamping accompaniment.
A tall fellow with an easy
matey air, he has an attractive
light tenor and the ability to
convey in full measure the
mood of his song. He backs
these up with a wondrous range
of facial expressions.
He roams far afield for his
ballads and folksongs, leaping
from the dusty streets of his
own wild and woolly west to
Andalusia for a lilting and lazy
traditional Spanish song; to
Wales to show how “The Ash
Grove,” beloved of the leek-
eaters, sounds when sung in a
soft American accent, and then
across to Venezuela, repre-
sented by a very fine song,
“Soul of the Plains.” .
Clauson shines his brightest
in comedy. There was, for
instance, the song about the
Argentinian mother-in-law who
“joined the army because she
loved a fight, and when the
enemy realised what happened
the war was over.”
And there was another comic
gem about a husband who,
wishing to end his marital
miseries, persuaded his willing
wife to tie his hands and push
him into a lake. At the last
split-second he smartly side-
steps and she goes in, and
while she yells to be saved he
logically points out to her that
his fetters render him helpless.
All in all, and although the
Town HalHs not the ideal place
to hear the intimacies of ballad-
singing, Clauson shows that a
rich personality with a natural
gift for song is still a winning
combination.
❖ ♦> ❖
“The Rose Tattoo”
Inspection of “The Rose
Tattoo” at the Arrow Theatre,
Melbourne, tended to confirm
a growing suspicion that Mr.
Tennessee Williams is begin-
ning to come to the end of his
somewhat thin vein of rather
journalistic observation.
He once more gets hold of
his favorite and extremely
successful theme of human
frustration and shuffles the
same old pack of assorted dead-
beats, this time pullulating in
one of the poverty-stricken
areas of the deep, dumb South,
somewhere along the gulf coast
between New Orleans and
Mobile. Rose Della Rose
cannot forget the memory of
her husband killed in a motor
accident, but her dream about
him is shattered, when ~ she
learns that, when alive, he
wasn’t altogether faithful to
her. Thus she is brought back
exactly to the point where she
was when the play started.
All this is supposed to be
spread over the space of three
years. Mr. Williams, with the
help of the Arrow Theatre
players, very considerately
takes only three hours. More
so here, however, than in his
other plays, Mr. Williams
leaves his characters with a
little dignity, his sympathy pre-
venting them from becoming
merely brilliant caricatures,
but, as usual, the audience
leaves his play full of wonder,
puzzled and a little irritated.
Allan Mooney’s production
was rather shaky. Mannerisms
cropped up like Bathurst-burr
in a neglected paddock, the sets
were as complicated as- an air-
craft factory, and the bleating
of goats, the shouts of children
and the ravings of a mad-
woman didn’t make things less
confusing.
Easily the best in a not-so-
strong cast was Zena Fantle,
who gave a sensitive picture
of the distraught, hysterical
Rose Della Rose.
“Youth Concert”
At the fifth of this year’s
Youth Concerts at Melbourne
Town Hall the youth assembled
were treated by conductor Kurt
Woess to a mixed-grill of
works both new and standard.
A novelty began the concert
the Swiss comp o s e i
Liebermann’s “Furioso” for
orchestra. Furioso it was, also
noisy and discordant. The
drums rolled in and out of the
path of the music, the strings
scraped like madmen and the
conductor, sweating at the
brow, urged them on at top
speed. A Mobilgas road-test
was nothing to it.
Next was Mozart’s Sym-
phony in C Major, the “Linz,”
written by the composer almost
in one night. The music showed
no signs of haste and the
conductor took it quietly. The
last three movements poco
adagio, minuetto and spirited,
gay presto —were so lovely that
it was difficult to believe that
the orchestra which produced
Liebermann’s “Furioso” was
the same which was producing
this gentle stream of sound.
Haydn’s “Concerto for
Trumpet” received a capable
performance from Standish
Roberts, though it lacked the
strong orchestral background
which the solo instrument
demanded. The oft-played
“Nutcracker Suite” by Tschai-
kowsky then got consideration,
along with an impressionistic
piece by Moussorgsky and
Dvorak’s “Three Slavonic
Dances.” These were grate-
fully digested by the youth
assembled.
Artbursts
Royal Art Society
This year’s Royal Art
Society exhibition at the
N.S.W. Education Department
galleries, like all the other
Royal Art Society exhibitions
lor years and years and years,
conveys a general impression
of blue hills lolling in rather
sugary sunshine.
There is not much to be said
for most of this work; a vapid
conventional landscape is just
as bad in its own way as a


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No ‘ Springs
The neo - BAR-
rere acts like
a hand when
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for Free Literature
Barrere Distribution Company
Dept. 3v, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
GUARD
xtMth'CV'
PROTECTA
SW-^%
Suitable for ever; type of business it record!
•II Sales, Credits, Payouts ete. Strongly built,
pleasing |n appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Afmf- •
SYDNEY
MELBOURNS •
ADELAIDE
PERTH *
W. C. Fenfold db Co* Fty. Ltd,
, Norman Bros. Fty. Ltd*
t Ltd,
i Docket Booh Co. (AmM
murky and ill-painted abstract.
But generalisations are always
unfair to the exceptions and
there remain points of genuine
interest in the show.
The most notable event is
probably Garrett Kingsley’s
portrait, which (amongst his
boneless nudes) is the first time
he has been able to carry the
fine firmness of his small head-
studies to so large a scale. It
is also pleasing to see a greatly
increased sensitivity in the
watercolors of Rufus Morris —
though his paintings still need
emphasis and compression and
he should not frame them as
oils.
Lance Solomon retains, with-
out advancing, his pre-eminence
in straightforward landscape.
He seems to have moved
towards a somewhat feathery
style, after Monet, and one
misses his former solidity and
simplicity; but perhaps it is
only a passing experiment.
Howard Ashton, too, continues
to prove that no other painter
can walk you so resolutely into
the French’s Forest scrub —and
that no other painter ever saw
the sea so devastatrngly blue.
Various Meldrumite land-
scapes are attractive in their
lightness of touch and there are
a number of pleasant waiter-
colors, mostly showing the
influence of G. K. Townshend.
♦j*
Small Paintings
The two hundred stupen-
dous canvasses by immortal
geniuses at most art-shows are
just not to be believed. Where-
fore the small paintings at
Sydney Bissietta - Gallery’s
“Mostra Minima” are to be
welcomed.
There are two small Glee-
sons, one of a monkey brood-
ing over the universe entitled
“Thought,” which, if not
Rodin, is quite a thought ; a
small “Flying Saucer” by Roy
Fluke (orange and blue globes
rotating in the heavens) which,
if garish and superficial, is
possibly the first flying-saucer
ever painted; an “Old
Chimney” by Sheila McDonald
(black against yellow) which,
if elementary, shows a nice
sympathy for old chimneys;
a curly beach at Nambucca by
A. de Francesco; and a water-
color of “Stalks and Things”
by Diana Robinson which, if
sketchy, is about all that needs
to be said about stalks and
things.
♦♦♦
The Holly Group
The Holly Group, which had
its origin in a Melbourne cafe,
is holding its, eighth exhibition
at' the Athemeum Gallery,
Melbourne. Reshid Bey shows
Spanish landscapes which are
soft and pleasant and a portrait
of his wife, which is unatmo-
spheric. Don Morrow’s con-
tribution is undistinguished and
F. M. S. Rossiter’s dozen don't
suggest any comment. R. W.
Rowed and Gordon A. Speary
remain firmly at|ached to a
formula for landscape which
is well worn and unimpressive,
but Colvin Smith has a nice
painting in “Mount Cathedral,”
while his “Mount Arkaringa,”
all red and white, though
reminiscent of Namatjira, is
effective. The best of the bunch
of Holly is possibly W. V.
Manders. Mr. Manders uses
pigment very coarsely, but at
least his redgums and green
bush look like redgums and
green bush and his sunlight like
sunlight.
+J* +J* <£♦
James Meldrum
James Meldrum, son of the
architect, not the artist, is
hanging the fruits of a Euro-
pean visit at the Tasmanian
Tourist Bureau Gallery in
Collins Street. His pictures are
a convincing proof that Nature
in Spain and Italy is doing
its best to fit into the prevail-
ing fashion, as it is in Aus-
tralia.
♦> ♦>
Helena Rubinstein Travel-
ling Scholarship
The Helena Rubinstein
travelling scholarship £lOOO
available for one year for study
overseas —has been established
“particularly to help those
who, in their work and attitude
to life, exhibit a creative and
forward-looking talent. It has
been kept as free of encum-
brance on the artist as pos-
sible.” It is not competitive in
the usual sense, the award being
made to an artist from among
a number invited by the panel
of judges to submit works for
exhibition. Full particulars are
available from Mr. Norman
Schureck, 101 York Street,
Sydney.
Films
“Their Secret Affair”
When General Kirk
Douglas (war-hero, known as
“Ironpants”) lands the cushy
diplomatic posting that Miss
Susan Hayward (big noise in a
chain of newspaper enterprises)
had lined-up for “Daddy’s best
friend,” the little lady goes off
the deep end.
She is subtle, however, and
invites the general to her
mansion, intending that she
and her hound-dogs, merely by
doing a profile on the man-
of-the-moment, will chop him
to size. But, the drums go bang
and the cymbals clang when the
little man with the arrow inter-
venes, only to foul things up to
the extent that the expose
edition hits the street when
it is not really wanted, and a
Senate inquiry follows. From
this K.D. emerges a greater
hero than before and S.H. as
a not so iron-hearted girly.
When, at some stages during
the film, one feels that it is
Americans laughing at
Americans, it is enjoyable;
otherwise it is, at the best, slick.
Kirk Douglas we would prefer
in something a little'more man-
eating; his approach to comedy
—being a comedian by pre-
tending not to be—is a sub-
stitute product; and Miss
Hayward, relying on two basic
facial expressions, doesn’t fare
any better in this line of
comedy than she has in the
melodramas.
At Sydney Century.
❖ *** ❖
“The Burglar”
There are two absurdities in
this film, the story of which
follows the pattern set in the
French-made “Rififi” of having
the fruits of a successful jewel-
robbery vitiated by inter-gang
warfare —in this case the rival
“gang” is a crooked cop and
his paramour. First, the noble
fellow who sentimentally leads
the gang meets his Nemesis
while saving his foster-father’s
wayward darter from the bold
bad cop ; second, Jayne Mans-
field’s efforts to portray
passionate drama supply the
film’s only touch of comedy!
Despite these faults, the film
has its attractions. There is a
rattling good performance by
Dan Duryea, as the gang-
leader with no conscienoe, but
high principles—and to make
that paradox tick an actor has
to be good. There are also well-
limned reactions by members
of the gang to being kept “in
smoke,” with forced inaction
ripping tempers to shreds. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Interlude”
June Ally Son, breaking away
from a long and monotonous
line of sweetly-understanding-
wife roles, is cast here as a
single-girl tourist who meets
a famous orchestra-conductor
and gets tangled up in a
romance until she finds that he
has a mentally-deranged wife ;
whereupon she selflessly
renounces her love and beats
it back to the States after
bidding him a tear-stained
adieu, thus retaining that sweet-
ness of disposition which Miss
Allyson’s fans apparently
demand of her.
The sugary confection would
be intolerable but for the
magnificent shots of Salzburg
and Munich and the surround-
ing countryside, and the music
dispensed by a very fine
orchestra. Rossano Brazzi, as
the handsome baton-wielder,
does the secret-burden stuff
with quite an air. At Sydney
State.
♦♦♦ »j
“Men in War”
Lootnent Robert Ryan, lead-
ing his cut-off patrol back to
his own lines in Korea,
commandeers a jeep in which
Top-Sergeant Aldo Ray is
driving his shell-shocked
colonel to hospital, and orders
him to join forces. The rest of
the film is taken-up with awful
barnies between Ryan and Ray,
but it follows naturally that, as
sole survivors of the party, they
become bosom buddies and
double-handedly stoush the
Gooks hip-and-thigh. But, the
martial side apart, their rows
are real humdingers. At
Sydney Plaza.


5.V. .
%
S T.
3
’ m jTi
BOARD OF DIRECTORS}
G. B. Kater (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
(Vice-Chairman )
A. E. Bond /. R. Faviell
F. B. Fleming C. H. Locke
Manager: F. R. Garland
Assistant Manager: M. A. Foulcher
Secretary: P. H. Andrews
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OP N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
Associate Company*
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT.iJBA.i»
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Cement, Ltd.
T)Y far the greater proportion of cement
in Victoria is made by Australian
Portland Cement Pty., Ltd., at its Geelong
works, and recently demand for cement
in the southern State has considerably
exceeded supply. The rest has been
brought in from N.S.W., S.A. and Tas-
mania, and in this respect Australian
Portland Cement Pty. should be in a
strategic position, as it owns the largest
N.S.W. cement-works as well —that at
Kandos, in N.S.W.
The entire £4-million of share-capital
issued by A.P.C. Pty. is held in equal lots
by Australian .Cement, Ltd., and Kandos
Cement, Ltd. The undertaking overall
is by far the largest producer in the
Commonwealth, with further extensions
to plant still under way. With a large
foot in the cement industry in the two
major States, it is well situated to
stabilise its earning-power, and each
holding-co. participates equally in this
benefit.
Business has been brisk indeed over
the past year, notwithstanding the setback
in homebuilding. City-building activity
has more than taken-up the slack there,
and in Melbourne this has been especially
noticeable to the eye, though Sydney’s
new skyscrapers are very evident also.
Demand continued strong at the end of
the 1956-57 financial year, with Aus-
tralian production at a rate more than
double that of eight years earlier, and
more than 10 p.c. ahead of the figure of
a year ago.
Achievement of these results with
credit still under tight control is promis-
ing for the future of the cement industry.
In N.S.W. plant-additions have been by
no means ahead of current demand. At
the Geelong works of A.P.C. Pty. the
addition of new plant is at present in
progress (scheduled for completion early
in 1958), and the board seems confident
of its profitable employment when it says
that “it is anticipated that the works at
Geelong will then be capable of an output
of 450,000 tons p.a., which will go a
long way towards meeting the demands
of the Victorian market for the time
being.” It adds that “production of
cement and lime at Kandos, N.S.W., has
been very satisfactory” during the past
year.
But figures of the operating-co. are
not disclosed, and all that shareholders
in Australian Gement, Ltd., get a look
at is dividends from investments, plus a
small income from Commonwealth loans,
commissions, etc. Last year it was
enough, after payment of petty exes, and
directors’ fees, to show 11 p.c. on the
bonus-enlarged capital of the- holding-
co.:
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1950.. 60,266 8 p.c. = 60.835 5,431 366,635
Reserves capitalised,' £114,065.. .. 252,570
Share premiums, £18,317 .. ... 270,887
Unexplained reduction, £755 .. .. 270,132
1951.. 69,922 8 p.c. = 69,876 46 270,178
Share premiums, £18,317 .. .. 288,495
1952.. . 76,773 8 p.c. = 75,821 952 289,447
1953.. §2,580 8 „ ~75,821 290,206
1954.. 83,022 9 „ ~ 85,298 _ 293,930
Assets revalued, £660,000 .. .. 953,930
Reserves capitalised, £473.883 . . 4^0,047
1955.. 101,376 5 P.c.- 47,388 53,988 534,035
Added reserves, £l6BO ~ ... .. 5357715
June,
1956*. '148,744 lOf p.c. -142,165 6,579 542,294
Special div., A.P.G,, £90,000 .. 632,294
1957.. 156,177 10 : p.c. =142,165 14,012 646,306
* Seven months, f 12 months.
The 10 p.c. div. was repeated on the
capital, which was increased by a one-
for-two bonus-issue in the 1955 term.
As an indication of the real earning-
power of the operating-co., all the post-
war expansion at -Geelong and Kandos
has been financed out of ploughed-back
profits, barring £500,000 raised by a new
share-issue in 1951. And the holding-
cos. at the same time have been able to
accumulate a little liquid pin-money as
well [at- last balance-day Australian
Cement had £137,015 in cash and
securities, as well as £3750 in shares in
Bates (A/asia) Pty., Ltd.]. But in meeting
the cost of present plant-extensions the
operating-co.’s resources will, be “fully
employed,” it is stated.
Last term the operating-co. paid a
special dividend of £90,000 each to
Australian Cement and Kandos Cement.
It came from “accumulated profits.” The
sum was applied in taking-up 90,000 £1
shares in A.P.C. Pty., and made each
holding-co.’s equity two-million shares,
including 660,000 bonus-shares received
by each during the term.
This bonus corresponded with a
writing-up by that amount of the A.P.C.
holding in 1955 prior to the bonus-issue
made by Australian Cement to its invest-
ing public, and brings the book-value of
the holding in the operating-co. back to
par.
Australian Cement shares are still
priced highly (relative to Kandos shares
at 455. 6d.) at 525. 6d. If anything, on a
close analysis, Kandos shares should be
worth slightly more than Australian
Cement shares.
At 525. 6d. Australian Cement shares
yield 3.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. At
455. 6d. Kandos shares show £4 7s. per
cent.
Meggitt, Ltd.
VI/ITH the transfer of £150,000 from
** various provisions to free reserves,
more of tfye financial strength which this
co. has been accumulating behind the
scenes was brought to light in the latest
accounts. .Together with previous dis-
closures, it brought total withdrawals
from inner sources over the last three
years to £430,748. That is more than
all the profits claimed within the last six
years.
Later the board may have a notion to
go a further step and pass out some
special benefit to shareholders, but, for
the present, it’s a clear indication that
the financial position is sound indeed.
Largest of its kind in Australia, Meggitt
has been producing linseed-meal and
linseed-oil for 37 years in factories at
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Bris-
bane. As the result of arrangements


made many years ago, Its own name
doesn’t appear on the linseed-oil it sells ;
instead, it uses the trade-name of promin-
ent British paintmakers Blundell, Spence
and Co., Ltd. Biggest customers for oil
are the paint and lino, industries. The
rest of the co.’s output goes into printing-
inks and various industrial uses. Linseed-
meal has a wide sale as a high-protein
stockfood.
About half the oil needed in Australia
is produced from locally-grown linseed.
The rest has to be imported from
abroad, either in the seed or as bulk-oil
for refining. In recent years the wider
planting of linseed in Australia has been
encouraged by both the industry and the
Federal Government, and the low price
of wheat has been another stimulus.
Linseed grows well in most of the
cultivated parts of Australia.
Because of import-restrictions, for a
period there wasn’t enough oil to keep
the co.’s refineries fully occupied.
During the first half of the 1957 term
this factor had something to do with the
smaller quantity of oil sold. But
slackness in homebuilding also caused a
reduction in the demand for oil. Partly
offsetting this, more meal was sold.
Drought conditions prompted handfeed-
ing of stock on a larger scale, and linseed-
meal was much sought after.
In arriving at the year’s profit no
provision was considered necessary for
the special contingencies allowed for in
previous terms, but an extra £20,369 was
set aside for depreciation (£52,814),
probably in connection with the new
Melbourne plant, though this won’t be
in operation until early in October. Again,
tax-provision isn’t disclosed, suggesting
that the caution with which past earn-
ings have been stated has not all been
discarded:
t Dividends x
Pref. Re-
May, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. serves.t
£ £ £ £
To stall fund, £5OOO ~ , .. 7,250
1951.. 56,593 4«00 lOp.e. = 36,918 22,925
1952.. 51,939 4000 10 „ „ 36,918 33.946
1953.. 53,933 4000 10 ~ „ 36,918 46,961
1954.. 62,485 4000 12* „ „ 46,148 59,298
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 49.298
From inner reserves, £115,748 .. 165,046
1955.. 71,464 4000 15 p.c. = 55,378 177,132
From inner reserves, £150,000 .. 327,132
1956.. 85,111 4000 15 p.c. = 55,377 352,866
From inner reserves, £150,000 .. 502,866
1957.. 75,077 4000 15 p.c. = 55,377 518,566
■{'After deducting goodwill (£115,748), which was
• written out of the accounts in 1955.
The £75,077 of profit was enough to take
care of the £4OOO pref. charges and show
19.3 p.c. (21.9 p.c. in 1956) on the ords.,
on which a 15 p.c. div. was declared. The
£15,700 surplus brought the year’s
additions to reserves to £165,700, and
total visible accumulations to £518,566,
comfortably in excess of the subscribed
capital.
The annual report doesn’t make it clear
whether the £150,000 taken out of hiding
was deducted from provisions lumped
together in the accounts with sundry
creditors or from reserves against losses
on stock (in at below market-value) or
debtors (shown less reserve for doubtful
accounts), so balance-sheet movements
should be regarded cautiously;
Consolidated Balance-sheet,
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref. .. ~ £40,000 . £>o,ooo £40,000
Ord. ~, 369,182 309,182 809,182
Reserves .. .. 177,131 352,866 518,566
Sundry creditors*. 981,120 778,123 1,040,592
Staff fund 39,000 39,000 89,000
Final divs. .. 38,919 38,918 29,688
£1,645,358 £1,618,089 £2,037,028
Land, buildings,
plant .. .. 213,622 197,570 408,799
Shares .. .. 43,251 43,251 43,244
Stocks .. .. 505,085 803,680 819,007
Debtors .. ~ 284,390 380,753 477,238
Cash, bonds, etc... 599,010 242,835 288,740
£1,645,858 £1,618,089 £2,037,028
* Includes unspecified provisions.
Net growth of £211,229 in fixed assets
appears to represent genuine additions,
comprising mainly land, buildings and
plant acquired in Melbourne, and cash
(up £45,905) means what it says.
On a 15 p.c. div. basis the f.-p. £1
ords. yield a satisfactory return of 5.5
p.c. at the latest market quote of 555.
Thanks to able management, finances are
in good shape and prospects pleasing
enough. The new Melbourne factory will
increase crushing-capacity, with greater
efficiency possible. Net tangible asset
cover for the scrip is £46 7s. 9d. first
prefs., £45 7s. 9d. seconds, and 48s. Id.
the ords.
Australian Cash Orders, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. m r ——Dividends 7, serves, serves.*
£ ■ £ £ £
Share-issue exps: written off, £132*.. 210,553
1952.. 73,4>1 17£;p.c.= 60,055 13,386 223,939
1953.. 68,036 174 „ „ 64,754 3,282 227,221
Share premiums, £2OlO .. .. 229,231
1954.. 94,361 174 p.c. = 65,242 29,119 258,350
Share premiums, £42,436 .. .. 300,786
Share-issue' exps. written off, £63 .. 300,723
1955.. 87,117 174 p.c. = 70,397 16,720 3i7,443
Share premiums, £4063 .. .. 321,506
1956.. 75,471 15 p.c. = 62,617 12,854 334,360
1957.. 45,018 10 „ „ 41,996 3,622 337,982
* Subject to goodwill, £127,513, March 31, 1957.
. TT is, possibly, a sign of the times that
this co., which paid dividends of 17|
p.c. to its shareholders easily enough a
few years ago, just managed to cover a
10 p.c. distribution last term. Prosperity
is still with us, but it is on a harder-won,
less-delusive basis than, say, in 1951.
At the end of the business term in 1956
the change in the climate prompted
A.C.O.’s chairman to say:
Business has shown a tendency of late to
run into longer terms, and collections have
not been so buoyant. This, together with
ever-increasing costs, has detracted from
our rate of earning and necessitated greater
provision for bad-debts.
Last year the co. continued to find
difficulty getting all its money in on the
date due, with a consequent increase in
the expenses of collection and interest
paid on its own borrowings. And
because furniture-sales fell slack, divi-
dends which the parent got from the sub-
sidiaries engaged in that aspect of affairs
were £14,500 lighter than the previous
term.
On paid capital of £423,913 the £45,618
of profit claimed (down £29,853) was 10.8
p.c., as against 17.9 p.c. and 20.9 p.c. for
the two preceding years.
The parent’s actual bad-debt experience
(the main risk connected with this type
of business) isn’t disclosed, but after
charging the current year’s earnings
with £19,247 (£18,861 in 1956) against this
contingency and depreciation, etc., and
£10,670 (£20,600) for taxation, the total
provision covering these items which is
disclosed to public view stood £27,808
lower at £74,166. About £9930 of the
difference could be accounted for by pay-
ment of income-tax.
The co. was one of the first to set-up
in the cash-order business (in 1920 ; be-
fore that it had been part of the business
of retail-drapers Buckinghams), and it
was a measure of its extraordinary early
success that by 1927 £133,609 of the then
£206,905 paid-capital was bonus-scrip.
In the tremendous boom in personal
consumption since the Second War the
emphasis has been on a different form of
credit, provided through the hire-purchase
contract. The cash-order wasn’t intended
to cover the purchase of things like motor-
vehicles or refrigerators, and, also, at
least in, N.S.W., statutory limits exist on
the amount of orders which an individual
can take out at a given time.
For all that, the average dividend paid
to shareholders by Australian Cash
Orders since been 15| p.c. a
term.
Last year a further £614 of the publicly-
held pref. capital in the subsidiaries was
acquired in exchange for a like amount
of registered unsecured notes, carrying
7 p.c. interest, and cash subscriptions
received for an additional £37,681. Along
with the £201,705 of notes put out in
1956 (£92,058 for cash, £119,647 to share-
holders) they brought the total of notes
issued at March 31 to £250,000. They are
due for redemption on Oct. 1, 1965.
Bank overdraft, £156,728 (up £21,059)
and a loan on mortgage, £87,500 (down
£2500), constituted most of the remaining
outside funds used in the business:
1955. 1950. 1957.
Paid capital .. £416.439 £421,963 £423,913
Reserves .. ... 317,444 334,360 337,983
Mortgages .. 92,500 90,000 87,500
7 p.c. notes ~ 211,705 250,000
O'verdraft . . . . 105,527 135,609 156,728
Sundry liabilities 285,509 128,466 124,426
Due to subsids. .. 52,892 56,414 02,423
Provisions* . . 142,387 101,974 74,166
Final div 40,665 31,583 21,008
£1,453,363 £1,512,135 £ 1,538,147
Freeholds, etc. .. 173,293 176,110 176,985
Shares subsids. .. 212,348 334,226 335,135
Debtors, etc. .. 839,456 774,901 762,997
Due by subsids. .. 99,831 98,286 134,368 -
Cash .. .. 922 1,099 1,149
Goodwill- .. .. 127,513 127,513 127,513
£1,453,363 £1,512,135 £1,538,147
* Bad debts, depreciation, taxation, etc.
The £335,135 against shares in subsidiaries
is a valuation. Cost to the co. of the
£131,997 pref. and £107,030 ord. scrip
was £265,035.
Since the current term opened trading
in the furniture offshoots is reported to
have materially improved, and there has
been a reduction from Bs. to 7s. 6d. in the
£ in company-tax.
At present the 20s. “B” stock-units
fetch 245. 3d. on ’Change. Twelve months
ago the price stood at 295. and a year
before that, at 435. At the current price
the return from the scrip on a 10 p.c.
div. basis is 8.2 p.c. In the uncertainty
about when the rest of fhe capital will be
wanted the Is.-paid “B” contribs. bring
only Is. 6d.


DAVIES A COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
C-1. Australian and Overseas Patents
and Trade Marks.— Advt.
BB IB
m m
HR! inra K
■ ■■ mi
mS
!«sa ■«
f »
f
A FINANCIAL ~
BULWARK,
for thousands
of Australians
FOR ALL CLASSES J *
OF LIFE ASSURANCE f; KP
AND PERSONAL * *
ACCIDENT INSURANCE -I— ,
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
HUNTER AND BUGH STREETS, SYDNEY. BWBO6I
DIRECTORS: E. W. Robinson, Esq., Chairman;
Col. R. S. Goward, CB.E.j F. H. Phillips, Esq.;
T, Keith Smith, Esq.; C. W. Rothe, Esq.j
. S. J. Gandon, Esq.
Gen. Manager: W. J. Cooksey, B.Se., F.F.A.
GENERAL CREDITS Ltd.
Helps you expand your income with .
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
SHORT
TERM
Interest paid quarterly free of exchange.
Cumulative stock carrying 6£% compounded
on yearly rests with currencies of 5 to 15
years. Prospectus available all branches of
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited.
Members of Stock Exchanges and Offices of
the company.
LONG
TERM
DIRECTORS:
Eric Hughes (Chairman), V. H. Stanley-Lo'
(Managing), J. F. Hughes, J. M. Ford,
F. G. Menzies, C.8.E., H. F. Clarke.*
SON
Brokers
far the Issue;
J. B. WERE &
Bankers for the issue
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF
AUSTRALIA LIMITED
This is not a Prospectus and does not
constitute an invitation to subscribe for
the debenture stock mentioned herein.
7704
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.
TpRODUCTION of woodpulp
•*- materials has continued to
increase, but sales of sawn
timber have fallen off, as well
as those of building-board—
the result of credit-restrictions
in New Zealand and Australia
and the free importation of
building-board into N.Z. Since
the close of accounts there has
been a picking-up in sales of
building-materials in N.Z., but
trade in timber with Australia
remains difficult.
In its various plants at Kin-
leith and Penrose the co. makes
woodpulp, wrapping - paper,
multiwall paper-bags, wall-
boards, panels, and acoustic
tiles as well as milling pine
timber. Its huge pine-planta-
tions, the foundation of the
whole enterprise, are near Lake
Rotorua, and were planted in
the 1920’5.
For the current term the
directors expect that the co.’s
factories will be fully employed,
and add that the “various
manufacturing operations and
general organisation of the co.
are now firmly established and
a high degree of efficiency in
the co.’s plants” has been fully
maintained.
For the term which ended on
March 31 last, profit from
operations was £2177 higher at
£2,000,985 (N.Z. currency).
Ordinary and special depreci-
ation written-off was £84,868
higher at £1,012,464. Sundry
income was £52,284, against
£31,551 in the preceding term,
and sundry expenses were
£216,599 (£211,551). Tax took
£315,785, against £362,370. The
net result was that profit for
the year was £20,421 lower at
£508,421:
Mch., Profit. , Dividends—Reserves.*
Prof. Ord.
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £
*56..528,842 49,539 Nil 2,870,916
Capital profits, £12,689 .. 2,883,60.3
5J p.c. 10 p.c.
'57..508,421 79,340 520.436 2,792,250
* Includes Reserve for Development,
£2,350,000 at 31/3/’57.
During the term the co. pro-
vided for its first dividend to
ord.-shareholders a contro-
versial 10 p.c. paid in the shape
of 5£ p.c. cumulative pref
shares. But already the divs. on
these prefs. are providing the
ord.-shareholders with some
cash-income, even if it is
minute. The reason for the
payment of the ord. div. in
scrip was that the co. has a
good deal of everything at
present except ready cash.
Its profit-earning position
isn’t bad, especially when depre-
ciation provision is taken into
account. Allocations have been
made as follows:
Depreciation Provisions.
For past To date,
year.
Ordinary .. £537,298 £2,337,759
Special .. 475,166 1,668,109
£1,012,464 £4,005,868
It is to the co?s advantage to
provide as much depreciation
as possible at this stage, for
taxation and other reasons. So
great has been the expansion
that all the company’s earnings
can be put to use. Not only
has it been necessary to spend
large sums on plant-extension ;
it has also been essential to
finance housing for employees
in new industrial areas created
by the co.’s own activities.
The recently enlarged pulp-
mill has been in continuous
production at the rate of
65,000 tons a year. At the
paper-mill the machine has
been speeded-up, with higher
production following. Further
increase in basic output is
being planned. The co. now has


Investors'
Opportunity
P.A.
H. & S. CREDITS
(NEWCASTLE) LIMITED
are now accepting fixed loans at the following rates of interest:
3 YEARS
2 YEARS
1 YEAR
12% P.A.
11% P.A.
10% P.A.
SHORT CALL LOANS: 7V*% P.A.
Up to £5OO On Call-£5OO-£l,OOO 21 days' call
(in excess by arrangement)
Interest paid free of exchange quarterly
CONVERSION OF SHORT CALL LOANS
If desired, after six months without call, the sum loaned may be
converted for a further six months fixed, making twelve months
in all at nine per cent. jfca.
Priority is given to depositors over shareholders .
OFFICES FOR ENQUIRIES
NEWCASTLE:
SYDNEY:
BRISBANE:
BANKERS:
AUDITORS:
SOLICITORS:
H. & S. Credits (Newcastle) Ltd., Civic Square. B 4202
R. M. Griffiths (Broker for the purpose of the loan)
C/- Incorporated Finance & Investment Pty* Ltd.
468 Hunter Street, Newcastle. B 3075
H. & S. Credits Pty. Ltd.
163 Clarence Street. BX 1170, BX 1603
or Roy F. Turner, K. H. Wilson & Co. (Solicitors)
350 George Street. BL 2766, BL 3292
A. R. Shaw (Solicitor), 99 Pitt Street. BL 3081
H. & S. Credits Pty. Ltd.
95 Bridge St., The Valley, Brisbane. Enquiries: Phone L 1339
The Commercial Bank of Australia Ltd.
Civic Branch, Newcastle
Gibson & Davies, 26 O'Connell St., Sydney
Roy F. Turner, K. H. Wilson & Co., 350 George St., Sydney
MAIL THIS COUPON
for further details, to
H. & S. Credits Pty. Ltd.,
163 Clarence St., Sydney.
To: H. & S. Credits Pty. Ltd., Sydney.
Please send me further details of your 12%
Loan. This request places me under no obliga-
tion whatsoever.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 18/9/’o7
four kilns to meet the increas-
ing demand for kiln-dried
timber.
The co. is using only about
half its potential forest crop,
and realises that expeditious
forest-realisation is economi-
cally desirable. In order to
utilise three-quarters of the
crop, an expansion programme
involving a £4-million outlay
is planned for completion by
1960-61. The major items
visualised are an increase in
pulp production, a second
paper-machine, introduction of
full bleaching to woodpulp,
production of bleached kraft-
papers, and an increase in
output of building-board.
The way the undertaking has
been financed to date is seen
in this comparison of balance-
sheet figures:—
Paid capital— 1950. 1957.
Pref. .. £990,783 £990,784
Old. . . 6,204,281 5,204,281
General reserve 477,110 260,851
Forfeited shares
reserve .. 17,777
Depreciation
reserve .". 21,33? 21,337
Fluctuation res. 63,203 63,203
Development res. 2,000,000 2,350,000
P. & 1. balance 358,805 79,081
Debentures,
mortgages 4,633,416 4,661,972
Sun dry' x cred i tors 506,680 469,267
Owing subsidiaries 2,686 2,725
Provisions
(tax, etc.).. 415,819 366,965
Dividends .. 599,776
£14,674,120 £15,088,019
Buildings,
plant .. 6,970,600 7,087.144
Forests ... 5,573,102 5,572,852
Govt, securities,
shares .. 361,379 439.625
Stocks "I ■ [ 1,104,126
Debtors 1,769,039 1 778,420
Cash J [ 105,852
£14,674,120 £15,088,019
The co. was formed 21 years
ago to take over the forests
and most of the other assets
of New Zealand Perpetual
Forests, Ltd., and its bond-
holders, and it is now the largest
industrial enterprise in Maori-
land. Employment at Kinleith
and Penrose totals 2300.
Many of the shares are held
in Australia, where the ords.
are currently selling at 21s. 6d.
(Aust.).
I.A.C. and A.N.Z.
TNDUSTRIAL ACCEPT-
A ANCE HOLDINGS, LTD.,
is issuing to the Australia and
New Zealand Bank, Ltd.
4,000,000 ordinary shares of ss.
each at a premium of 4s. a
share.
The investment will repre-
sent a holding of approxi-
mately 14 p.c. in the total share-
capital of Industrial Acceptance
Holdings, Ltd., which is the
holding - co. for Industrial
Acceptance Corporation, Ltd.,
Ajax Insurance Co., Ltd., and
other subsidiaries.


,
:
«
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
is influenced by the rate of
repayment of outstanding
loans, by the degree to which
borrowers are using existing
limits, and by the rate of new
approvals.
Information provided by the
major trading • - banks shows
that new and increased loan
approvals were already higher
in 1956-57 than in the previous
year.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
r THE Government has from
A time to time given itself a
deserved pat on the back for
the progress it has made in
getting rid of import-control.
But some importers have
recently been shocked to find
that certain items freed from
licensing have, without warn-
ing, had prohibitive duties
slapped onto them.
One importer, for instance,
complains that a shipment of
Austrian combs, costing him
£39 155., and formerly liable to
£2O duty, has, by a new
decision, become liable to £195
duty. From 45 per cent, the
duty has Ijeen increased to 300
per cent, on some combs, to 600
per cent, on others. To cover
his extra costs the importer
would have to double the sell-
ing-price of the most expensive
combs and treble that of the
least-expensive ones. If he is
not granted a dispensation, he
will ask that the combs be
destroyed under Customs
supervision.
As combs can hardly be
regarded as other than a
necessity, the purpose of the
duty appears to be to protect
local industry. Surely this is
protection on a fantastic scale.
Protecting Industry
N.Z. should think carefully
about the whole question of
protection . for secondary
industry.
Population is growing and is
likely to grow faster than sur-
plus farm-production, exports
of which must, therefore, be
increasingly supplemented by
exports of manufactured goods
to pay for necessary imports.
In other words, if the
standard of living is to be
maintained, a healthy manu-
facturing industry is essential.
It will certainly not be
developed in a hothouse atmo-
sphere.
Protection should be given
only to tho§e industries which
can produce convincing evi-
dence that they will be able to
stand qn their own feet and
make a useful contribution to
the national economy within a
limited period. N.Z. has
neither the capital nor the labor
to waste on others.
Capital and Labor
The Government is finding it
difficult to raise loans for
development, local-body work
is actually being held up for
the same reason, private enter-
prise is short of capital to pro-
vide for expansion which can
be classed as desirable in the
national interest. And notified
vacancies in industry still ex-
ceed the number of unemployed
by 12 to one.
In such circumstances claims
for protection should be care-
fully scrutinised. There is no
room for pampered, un-
economic industries. They;
should be allowed to strangle
quietly on their own ineffi-
ciency.
In addition to preparing to
export manufactured goods,
N.Z. must, it has been made
plain over the last year, develop
new markets for its farm
produce. That means it will be
necessary to do two things: (1)
To buy mote freely from other
countries so that they will be
encouraged and enabled to
reciprocate; (2) to keep costs
down so as to be able to com-
pete successfully on world
markets with other sellers of
farm produce.
Australia’s Example
Discussing this subject
recently, Professor H. R. Rod-
well, Professor of Economics
at Auckland University, said
that N.Z. would have to follow
the example of Australia and
adopt a more liberal tariff
policy toward other countries.
This would have to be done
even if it exposed N.Z.
secondary industries to com-
petition. “If they don’t stand
up they will have to go,” said
Professor Rodwell. “We must
build up our export markets.”
At present manufacturing
industries account for 80 per
cent, of N.Z.’s total imports,
mainly in the form of raw-
materials. The figure appears
higher than it should be.
Industries processing im-
ported raw-materials were the
least economic and called on
the State for the greatest pro-
tection, said the president of
Federated Farmers, S. D.
Reeves, recently.
“I do not believe for a
minute that we can attain the
requisite skills in order to
compete on world markets
unless we have a high measure
of competition,” he said. “It
is the fact that we have had to
meet competition that has made
our farming industry efficient.
The implications of bolstering-
up industries which are ineffi-
cient by world standards are
not yet fully realised.”
Trade with Japan
A growing awareness of the
possibilities of trade with
Japan is making itself felt in
N.Z.
Preliminary discussions on a
trade-agreement have been
held, and it is expected that
negotiations may be concluded
before the projected visit of the
Japanese Prime Minister, Mr.
Nobusuke Kishi, to N.Z. in
November. A trade-agreement
between the two countries,
signed in 1954 but never rati-
fied, may provide the basis of
the pact.
N.Z. had an important
responsibility in seeing that
two-way trade with Japan was
made possible, the chairman of
N.Z. Wool Board, H. J.
Wardell, told the board’s elec-
toral college recently.
Japan, he said, must export
or die. She had a population
of 90 million, and probably
five million to seven million
were unemployed. The balance-
of-payments problem might
ultimately become the factor
which would decide whether
Japan would use imported
wools or home-produced syn-
thetic fibres.
Meantime there was evidence
of an increasing demand for
wool products. Most Japanese
were now wearing Western-
style clothing, and even the
kimono, traditionally a silk
garment, was sometimes made
of wool. Japan had become
the world’s second-largest
buyer of raw wool, consuming
ljr million bales a year. Yarn-
production in 1956 was 50 per
cent, higher than the pre-war
peak.
During the last few years
Japan’s consumption of meat
has increased by leaps and
bounds as the dietary habits
of the people have been
changing. Between the end of
the war and 1953 meat imports
averaged only about 1000 tons
a year. By 1956 they had in-
creased to 2400 tons, and in
the first quarter of 1957 they
leaped to 7000 tons.
Most of this meat came
from Australia, but Japanese
importers are turning more and
more to N.Z. In the first 10
months of the export season,
from October 1 to July 27,
shipments totalled 10,368 tons.
New Shipping Service
Latest development is the
establishment of a new
shipping-service between N.Z.
ports and both Japan and the
west coast of North America.
This was announced by an N.Z.
firm acting as managing-agents
for Danish owners. Two
refrigerated motor-ships, one
of 2821 tons and one of 3169
tons, will operate the service,
carrying cargoes of frozen
meat.
Consumption of butter in
Japan is insignificant, and the
Japanese don’t customarily eat
cheese. However, N.Z. was
exporting substantial quantities
of skim-milk powder to Japan
for the school-lunch pro-
gramme till cheap American
powder became available
several years ago.
The Dairy Products Market-
ing Commission says that there
is no possibility of N.Z. recap-
turing a share of this trade
while the agreement for con-
cessional American supplies
operates. p


Aboriginal Tales from
Wallaga Lake Mission
Under the Sheoaks
Told by Percy Mumbulla
By ROLAND ROBINSON
YOU know, Rob, every
time I lay down along-
side a river and hear
the wind in them oaks
it puts me in mind of my poor
old grand-uncle Minah.
My old grand-uncle was
lying down under the oaks and
he was dying. My old dad was
with him, looking after him.
My old dad could feel these
things. He had that power.
He said, “I think I’ll shift
you. I don’t like it here. There’s
something going to happen.”
He shifted old uncle Minah
and put the tent-sticks up in
another place. It wasn’t very
long before a big limb broke
off and fell down and stuck
in the ground where my grand-
uncle had been lying.
My poor old uncle was
dying and my old man took
him away to the doctor.
But the doctor said, “There’s
nothing wrong with you, my
man. I can’t cure you.”
And my old father brought
him back to die at Wallaga
Lake. He’d been caught with
the guneena, the devils’ stones.
When I’m lying down under
them oaks down at Bega, I
used to think about poor old
uncle Minah. He used to put
his arms round me and
say, “My great-great-grand-
children.”
I was his favorite. I was
like a little poddy-calf, a little
fat-belly feller, you might say.
I was never with the young
fellers. I follered the old people.
They would hunt me back. I
would cry and they would take
me up and put me on their
shoulders. I used to sit down
and listen to the old people
yarning.
But these young fellers, they
don’t realise. They’d laugh at
you. They say, “Ar, he’s a
burra, a liar. He couldn’t catch
a dorg with such things.” But
them, things did happen.
Whenever I used to see one
of them old fellers going off
With a spear for marrung—
fish—l’d watch him. Away I’d
go. I’d run after him.
He’d look round quick. “You
naughty boy,” he’d say, “why
don’t you go home? You'll
frighten all the fish.”
I’d chuck myself down and
into it whingeing and howling.
“All right,” that old lad
would say. “Come on. Don’t
Recently my friend Percy Mumbulla, a full-blood
aborigine, took me down to Wallaga Lake Mission on
the South Coast. At least, he travelled on the back of my
motor-bike, singing and pointing out various places in the
landscape where different spirits and creatures are
believed by the aborigines to live still. He introduced me
to several old men at the mission. These stories are the
result of my visit. — R. R.
you make a noise. We’re going
to sneak on the marrung.”
The old lad would crouch
right down with his spear.
He’d make a feint-move to
frighten the fish. When the
fish didn’t move he’d drive the
spear right into him. He’d
have that fish shaking on his
spear.
I was only a little feller, but
I had that sense to foller and
learn how to do all them
things. That’s why I don’t use
a line for my fish. I use my
fish-spear ; my father taught
me how to make them. I can
use the womerah and the spear
with two barbs on it. I can
make a boomerang to go
whistling like a duck, and come
back, right back to my foot.
Every time I come to a
river like this and hear the
wind in them sheoaks, I sit
down and them times come
back to me. I can see my old
great-uncle Minah lying down.
He had a long white, smoky
beard, walloo we call it, and
his hair, jirral, was smoke-
dried, white.
He was lying down and look-
ing up at the sky, and must
have been saying in his own
language, “I’m leaving all my
little grandchildren. I’m leav-
ing them.”
The White Pig, the Porcupine
and the Wonga-pigeon
Told by Percy Mumbulla
A MAN from the North
Coast and his wife
from Victoria were
living at Wallaga Lake
Mission at Mosquito Point.
A white pig came up to
their house. He was snorting,
“Unt, unt, unt.” He was
going around the house, walk-
ing up to the door and smell-
ing.
The dogs wouldn’t touch
him. He’d just go in among
them and the dogs wouldn’t
look at him. He’d go away
down the bush and come back
to the house, smelling. He’d
come to the door, looking for
someone.
The woman in the house was
getting sick all the time. She
said to her husband. “Why
don’t you go out and shoot
that pig? Hunt him away.
He’s making me sick.”
This pig didn’t belong to
anyone. No one knew where
he came from. They asked
different farmers but they
didn’t know anything about
this white pig.
Well, the man gets the gun.
The pig was trying to lift the
door with his snout, grunting,
“Ugh, unt.” The man let that
pig have both barrels of the
shotgun. He didn’t kill the
Pig.
The pig ran away into the
bush. He changed into a big
tall man. He called out in
the bush. “I’m shot! I’m
shot! ”
His mate, these two travelled
together, was a short black-
feller. He doctored that tall
man. He fixed his mate up.
These were the two who caught
poor Bertie Bennelong. They
were Bugeens, spirits, you
know.
Next, a porcupine comes
into the camp. Dogs wouldn’t
touch him. Dark people
wouldn’t touch him. They
knew he was a Bugeen. Dogs
never tried to turn him over
and bite him underneath. He
was just walking around the
place. Just having a look
around.
When the pig was shqt my
old granny doctored the
woman. Only for her that
woman would have died. That
Bugeen would have got the lot
of us.
That porcupine, he just
looked around. No one
touched him. He couldn’t find
what he was looking for. He
went away.
This wonga-pigeon came.
He was walking about singing
out, picking about and look-
ing around. Dogs never
touched him, wouldn’t chase
him away.
My old granny had come
down from the Monaro. She
saw one of them two fellers,
them Bugeens. She hit him
with the guneena-stones. She
knocked him down. He was
crawling on the ground. He
crawled away down the hill
and into the bush. Granny,
she couldn’t go after him ; she
(Continued on page 56)


Australia*,
Numb#,...
Motor Ou%
AUSTRALIAN OWNED
MOTOR OIL
S.A.E. 20
AS PURE AS AN OIL CAN BE
IN ow, Ampol presents an entirely
new oil to meet the greater demands
of to-day’s high-speed, high-
compression engines. It is vastly
improved over the oils you have
been using . . . better in many
respects than ANY OTHER motor
oil on the market to-day.
New Ampol is no ordinary motor
oil. Now refined from the “heart”
of the finest, costliest paraffin-base
crudes, it is so superior that in
recent engine tests it out-
performed six other high-grade
motor oils.
Available in all regular S.A.E.
ratings and Heavy Duty Diesel
grades.


which have to do with their
affairs, and we rarely used
Hospital Hill for a visit
to Curly’s cottage, unless
making for Grub Gully, where
we always went to roast
potatoes in their jackets for an
afternoon refection.
We could have roasted
potatoes in our back paddock,
or down the flat, but tradition
had it that potatoes must be
roasted only in Grub Gully,
and, the slaves of tradition, we
always tramped the three miles
there to roast them.
\
THERE were other ancients
who existed outside all
status of repute or disrepute ;
derelicts hardly to be tabulated
in the order of the human
species.
Old Mick Reardon was such
a one, a shambling homunculus
with greasy long hair dripping
from the brim of a high-
crowned boxer-hat of some
fungoid substance—it exuded a
slime as of snails. He sprouted
such a rank growth of dank
whiskers that there was only
space left on his face for his
nose, which was a long, red
tender snout of the shape and
apparent consistency of a
carrot, for he was constantly
fondling and protecting it’ with
one hand, as if he feared a
sudden punch might snap it.
He wore three or four coats
in all kinds of weather, and
possibly these had to do with
a mystery frequently canvassed
among us, which was that no
one ever discovered where he
slept, so that the supposition
was that he carried his housing
on his back, like a snail.
But the prime distinction of
his being was that he had
cultivated a tremendous stink,
his alter ego . which pervaded
space about him like a tangible
substance. Noses coming in
contact with it stopped with
a jerk, and made a hurried
itinerary round its perimeter to
escape it.
This stink was an undoubted
asset to the single objective of
old Mick’s existence, which
was to cadge beer. He would
sidle up to the bar obsequiously
smiling and furtively hiding
his nose ; and so stand, till in
olfactory self-defence someone
ordered him a beer, with which
he would at once retire out of
nosing distance. And as an
attainable aspiration is the only
solution to a satisfactory
existence, no one can say that
old Mick had not solved this
oppressive problem.
Monkey meggs was
another old derelict, but
one who had undoubtedly failed
to find a satisfactory motive
for existence.
The driving impetus of his
being was a ferocious hatred
for all mankind, and especially
mankind in embryo, for if
all the boys in our town had one
collective neck he would have
strangled it, so be he could get
his clutches on it.
He was a dirty, crook-backed,
crazy old loon, with an under-
hung jaw sprouting a bristling
grey stubble, and fierce little
eyes darting glances right and
left for causes of offence, while
he shuffled along in a greasy
old greatcoat that trailed on the
ground, giving his progress the
effect of going on castors.
He was reputed to be an pld
lag, relic of ,the convict-
system, and he lived in a
squalid bush hovel on scraps
of food collected at back-
doors, which he carried about
his person in greasy paper
parcels.
For the diversion of the
chase a cry of “Catch 'em
alive-oh!” while hooking up
one leg and imitating the simian
action of scratching the ribs,
invariably sent old Monkey
into a hair-trigger release of
frenzy, charging this way and
that, snatching stones to hurl
at us with intemperate aim, and
even pelting his food-parcels
when other missiles were not
to hand.
Fatuous to denounce boys
for inhumanity and collective
sadism. To know man one must
also be man. How is one to
divine the mass-mentality
divided between stark primi-
tivism and an acquired civilised
consciousness unless one has
been through both stages? A
sound economic, to get the age
of flint over early and settle
down to enlarging the area of
consciousness for the rest of
one’s life.
TcDUT entertainment-value is
n ot solely the property of
the town’s disreputable
denizens. A public performer
on that -score of the most
distinguished order was W. B.
Purdie, one of its most elect
citizens. W. B. Purdie himself
was not the protagonist of that
performance, but its victim, in
which he played the part of
dummy and his leg that of low-
comedian.
It was a sentient malignant,
that leg, obeying no caprice but
its own, and inflicting indignity
on W. B. Purdie whenever he
went abroad with it.
From the waist upward he
was the most dignified man in
Redheap. His glossy top-hat
was an importation from
Paris. A selected flower always
adorned his immaculate frock-
coat. Gold-rimmed nose-glasses
glinted on his high-bridged
nose, and his beard was
barbered to a precise point
between his magnificent ram’s-
horned moustache. Only his
prominent eye retained an
expression of parboiled indigna-
tion at the low-comedy antics
of his leg.
Its stage-entrance of a
morning engaged the attention
of everybody within view of
W. B. Purdie’s front gate,
from which he emerged stagger-
ing about on two sticks, with
his leg kicking out in all
directions in the most spirited
manner, and. defeating ail
W.B.P.'s efforts to set a course
with it, till it decided to go off
with a bang, doing two steps to
W.B.P.’s one, and forcing him
along at a hoppity-kickety pace,
with his sticks rat-tatting and
his good leg doing a heel-and-
toe shuffle to keep up with the
procession.


W.B.P.’s objective was the
American Hotel, dictated by the
imperative of his scorching
kidneys, and his parched gullet
already making the motions of
swallowing a sizzling brandy-
and-soda.
But his leg chose to reject
W.B.P.’s chosen hostel, which
lay well back from the street,
with a fine open space before
its frontage, and W.B.P.’s
efforts to veer two points off
his course kept him battling like
a full-rigged ship clawing off a
lee shore with a defective
rudder. His curve hit Murphy’s
hay-and-corn store on the
opposite corner, and the leg
Was off again, splurging full-
tilt down the street again to
perform its frustrating antics'
on the Bull and Mouth Hotel,
or else dowse W.B.P.’s hot
coppers in the horse-trough.
Only by a practised tactic was
W.B.P. able to grapple a
veranda-post in time to get a
half-turn on his leeway and
rat-a-tat into the pub.
But even worse pranks the
leg performed on W. B.
Purdie's return-home at night
after closing-time.
Assisted by that notable
effect of mental fuzziness which
night-air inflicts on an even-
ing’s potations, the leg refused
to let him chart a course for
home, or sometimes precipi-
tated him into homes where he
least desired to be in par-
ticular, the home of an
acidulated spinster named
“Granny” Buggins, whose
house was next-door to his
own.
She was the town’s most
noted social purist and scandal-
monger, so that it could only
have been some perverse prin-
ciple of attraction by repulsion
that forced W.8.P., or his
malignant leg, so frequently to
barge full-tilt through her gate
and come a crashing cropper
on her front veranda. And,
once down, there was no
getting-up again for W.B.P.
unless some wayfarer of the
night lugged him upright and
set him on his course.
A just reprisal of scandal on
a scandalmonger that old Miss
Buggins, in curl-papers and a
bedgown, should be exposed in
the ambiguous posture of trying
to lug W. B. Purdie off her
premises while his leg was
doing its best to take her virgin
bedroom by assault.
DN odd relationship with
W. B. Purdie was Uncle
Dan Bodfish, the most prized
of all our ancients. Both were
uncles to an important member
of our circle named Mucker
Tweedie, and I never could
work out how one nephew
could have such a diverse com-
bination of uncles, for Uncle
Purdie dealt in mining-estate,
with an important-looking
office on the main street, and
was of a sartorial splendor and
used a punctilious diction in a
rich rolling voice, while Uncle
Dan was a burly, bearded old
man who had never worn a
hat on his shock of upgrowing
pepper-and-salt hair, and was
never seen in a coat, and wore
his shirt-sleeves perennially
rolled up on his bronzed hairy
arms, and did not inhabit the
Purdie residence, but lived in
a little hut down the yard with
his mate, Sugarloaf George.
George was Uncle Dan’s
partner in the vocation of
fossicker, and the pair of them
were constantly going off in a
leisurely way to sink a shaft or
pan-out a prospect. Why be in
a hurry to make a fortune
when you must shovel away a
few hundred tons of earth to
get at it?
Uncle Dan’s hut was any
boy’s concept of an ideal
dwelling. It had bunks in it
instead of beds, sawn-down
barrels for chairs, a rough-
board floor impervious to the
clumping of dirty boots, and
not an interdiction in it against
a carefree deportment, smoking
or swearing.
Moreover, Uncle Dan was a
notable farceur, and liked an
audience, and he found a
perfect one in our circle, which
was enchanted to find a buny
and bearded comedian con-
descending to entertain it. His
chosen device was one fre-
quently employed by profes-
sional comedians, which was
to hold conversations with
himself in two character-
presentations, one being Dan,
and the other Bodfish, which
allowed Bodfish to supply
subject-matter on which
comedian-Dan might exploit his
wit.
Sugarloaf George was fre-
quently its subject, as well as
supporting the character of
dummy to Uncle Dan’s per-
formance. George did very
well as a dummy, for he was
a speechless, chunky little man
with a, chin-tuft, a wink, and a
high-domed forehead, by which
he had acquired his title of
Sugarloaf. The wink was
George’s substitution for the
lightning play of repartee. He
used it, with suitable facial
contortions, as comment on the
brilliant dialogue between Dan
and Bodfish, which was at its
best at the Purdie dinner-table.
Those excellent Purdie
dinners, which were held in
the kitchen, and so were free of
the starched decorums of a
dining-room! Moreover, the
Purdie young, nephews and
nieces, were allowed to invite
friends to them without bother-
ing to consult aunts or uncles,
which was a glorious preroga-
tive, and proved their aunts and
uncles to be the noblest of their
kind. Dining at 1 ease in the
delectable company of girls, it
was enchanting to have an
Uncle Dan to keep the table in
a roar at the brilliance of his
patter.
“Eat hearty, Bodiijh; I
notice you ain’t doin’ your-
self as well as might be
expected. How so, Dan? It’s
owin’ to exercisin’ too much
brain-power, Bodfish. A man
as exercises his brain requires
constant feedin’, so I’ll just arst
you to have another go at that
Steak-and-kidney puddin’. To
oblige you, Dan, I will. I
wouldn’t do it for anyone else,
but as you’re so pressin’ I’ll
have another helpin’ with an
extra go at the cauliflower. 1
notice, Bodfish, as George is
off his tucker these days. Is
o Continued on page 57)


"Father, I cannot tell a lie—I did it with my little bomb!”


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
j
2S *v*V>
* xSf-*:
:
mm
Hi n
:fn
HU
WTiVe /or our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD. (
319 George Street
SYDNEY
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
'T’HE first of the S.T.C.’s two
Rosehill meetings of the
spring round will be held next
Saturday, with the 10-furlongs
£2205 Guineas the big attrac-
tion.
• •' • •
In addition to A.J.C. Derby
contenders, most of them in
their final public hit-out before
the classic, several Epsom and
Metropolitan horses will show
•a leg. This year’s Guineas
should be the best for many
seasons, for the three-year-old
<Crop is outstanding.
• • • •
In the past 25 years five
winners of the Rosehill Guineas
• —Caranna (1955), Tea Rose
(1944), Moorland (1943),
Laureate (1941) and Phar Lap
(1929) —repeated their success
in the Derby. In early years the
Guineas was run at seven
furlongs ; in 1915 the distance
was increased to nine furlongs ;
and in 1948 it was further
lengthened to the present and
more favorable mile-and-a-
quarter.
• •: •] •
Redcraze, now aged seven,
looks to be feeling the* advance
in years. His defeat by three-
year-old Prince Darius in the
Chelmsford Stakes deprived
him of the record for stake-
money won sin Australia and
New Zealand. However, he
should be able to manage the
necessary £783 to put him
ahead of Rising Fast, who
heads the list with £66,765.
The £4OO for second at his
latest start brought Redcraze’s
total to £65,982. In coming
weeks the longer weight-for-age
events should bring Redcraze
into his element.
• .*J • • ] •
Prince Darius was the ninth
three-year-old to win the
Chelmsford since 1924. His
predecessors were Royal
Stream, Bernbrook, Tribal,
Gold Rod, Gaine Carrington,
Ammon Ra, Limerick and
Heroic.
• ■#] «
Randwick racing indicated
that Caranna is back to his best
form; an excellent third to
dead-heaters Timor and
Straight Draw in the Spring
Handicap was pleasing to
trainer Frank Dalton. The
performance was a pointer to
Caranna’s Metrop. prospects
when it is considered that he
carried 9st. in the Spring
Handicap and drops to 8.11
in the Metropolitan. The five-
year-old is better placed in the
Metropolitan than in the two
Cups, for at Caulfield he has
9.1 and at Flemington 9st. Two
years ago the winner of the
A.J.C. Derby and other stay-
ing races, he may now be back
tc his three-year-old form.
The Tramway Handicap was
not much of a guide to the
“Looks like a photo-finish !”
Epsom: the winner, Landy,
who had pulled up lame after
a fast gallop four days before
the race, made most of the
other aspirants for the
Randwick mile look second-
rate. Best displays outside the
winner’s were handed in by
minor placegetters Shawan and
Zariba, two greys that seem
bound to open their Sydney
accounts before very long.
Landy ran the seven in the
fast 1.23 y. Provided he retains
his condition and his dicky leg
stands up, he’ll make it tough
for any Epsom opponent. His
trainer, T. J. Smith, elated at
the win, later said that he
wouldn’t give the chestnut
another outing before the
Epsom. Landy carried 9.1 in
the Tramway and drops to 8.7
in the Epsom —an important
factor. Eight pounds from the
back of a horse who suffers
from lameness means some-
thing. Some who finished near
the placed horses in the Tram-
way will be better for the out-
ing and should display
improved form, particularly
Commedia, Mandingos, Troy
and Grenoble.
• •! •] •
Baron Boissier, a New
Zealand and Brisbane winner,
could make it interesting in the
staying races over the Sydney
and Melbourne spring round.
He is handicapped on 9.2 in
the A.J.C. Metropolitan. The
six-year-old gelding ran a win-
ning trial—equalling one run
by Nightmarch, a Melbourne
Cup winner over seven
furlongs in 1.32 on the centre
of Rosebery course four days
before the Chelmsford. His
sound third to Prifice Darius
and Redcraze was no surprise
to those who had seen the trial.
In the 1950 Melbourne Cup
Comic Court carried 9.5 to
defeat Chicquita (8.10) and
Morse Code (7.6). His time
(3.19|) was an Australian
record, equalled in last year’s
Cup by Evening Peal. A colt
foal whose future will be
followed with considerable
interest throughout Australia
has been dropped at a Victorian
stud from a mating of Comic
Court, and Chicquita, the idea
for such a mating suggested
after their Melbourne Cup.
Comic Court won 28 races
and ran 14 seconds to aggregate
£48,579 in stakes. Chicquita’s
16 wins were worth £28,285;
she finished fourth on the Aus-
tralian list of prizemoney-
winning mares. Her successes
included the V.R.C. Oaks, the
Wakeful Stakes and several
weight-for-age contests, in one
of which, the V.R.C. Craiglee
Stakes, she defeated Comic
Court. She also finished second
in the 1950 Caulfield Cup won
by Grey Boots. Chicquita was
got by Blank (imp.) from Starr
Faithful by Equator (imp.)
from Linton Lowrie by
Woorak.
Melbourne racing goes to
Flemington next Saturday,
where an important event will
be the 10-furlongs Craiglee
Stakes. Syntax and Sailor's
Guide have both been nomi-
nated, but the New Zealander
may be reserved for the
Underwood Stakes at Caulfield
on Show-day, in which case
Sailor’s Guide, who won the
Burleigh Handicap at the
corresponding meeting last
year, should have little trouble
in taking the Craiglee. Last
year Cromis, who did not have
the luck he deserved through-
out his career, defeated a pretty
hot field in the Craiglee, includ-
ing Redcraze and Rising Fast,
••• •
Peregrinating owner-trainer
B. (Snowy) Burgess brought
his small team from a winter’s
sojourn in Brisbane to Moonee
Valley last Saturday—with
happy results. His aged geld-
ing On Parade trounced local
Cup hopes in the main race—
the £2OOO mile John F. Feehan
Handicap and his mare
Agathis scored a runaway
win in the second Windarra
Highweight'. The stable won
a lot of money over the double,
supporting On Parade from
16’s to 12’s, and playing up
the winnings to force Agathis
from 33’s to 12’s.
• •
On Parade is a useful
galloper up to a mile, and his
record includes a Standish


Divorce Notice#
IN T-HE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO ALBERT FRANCIS FOLEY late of
St. Marys in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that FRANCES
JEAN FOLEY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1826 of 1957 on the grounds
of habitual drunkenness leaving with-
out the means of support and cruelty
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on
or before the 18th day of November
1957 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. JOHN-
SON & O’NEILL, Solicitors, 69 Hunter
Street, Newcastle; or their Agents,
SHAW, MCDONALD & CO., Solicitors,
lie Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. — In Divorce.
TO ALAN RAYMON BARLOW late of
Wollongong—TAKE NOTICE that
MARY ELIZABETH THURL MC-
LENNAN has filed aSPetition for nullity
of marriage No. 2496 of 1957 on the
ground that at the time of the cere-
mony of her marriage to you you were
still the husband of GLORIA JOYCE
BARLOW If you wish to defend you
~ihay enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 25th November 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS.-CLAYTON, UTZ
& COMPANY, Solicitors, of 136 Liver-
pool Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,.
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO CLYDE REGINALD JONES late of
Puckapunyal via Sevmour Victoria. —
TAKE NOTICE that CAROLINE CISSIE
JONES has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2783 of 1957 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 29th
day of November 1957 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. ROBERTSON PARKHILU
ROFE & MOFFITT, Solicitors, 79-81
Pitt Street,- Sydney, in the State of
New South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO ELEANOR MAY MOORE late of
4 Ada Street AVaratah.—TAKE NOTICE
that PATRICK NEVILLE MOORE has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 665 of
1957 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 25th of November 1957
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. BRAYE
CRAGG COHEN & CHAPMAN, Soli-
citors, Bolton Street, Newcastle, oir
MESSRS. BRAYE & MALCOMSON,
Solicitors, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Handicap success. Neverthe-
less, Burgess does not consider
the gelding of much class, and
did not nominate him for the
Cups. On that rating the horses
that finished behind On Parade
last Saturday would have to
improve rapidly to warrant a
Cup start.
Lord Gavin had his first
spring run in the Feehan. He
looked above himself in con-
dition, and had to struggle
hard to finish in the middle
of the field. He will be a fitter
horse next time up, but he
hardly impressed as likely to
improve enough to win the
Caulfield Cup with the solid
impost of 8.10.
• • • •
New Zealander Humber
Hawk, having his first Aus-
tralian start, finished a dismal
last. The one Cups candidate
in the Feehan to please his
connections was Royal Djafar.
The Djafar horse, a true stayer,
on Saturday was asked to race
near the lead throughout.
When he is given time to settle
down in a race over a bit of
distance he will give a good
account of himself.
• • * •
Melbourne racegoers left
Moonee Valley last Saturday
wondering just how good a
galloper is Top Fred ; and the
same problem is disturbing a
number of bookmakers who
have laid Top Fred at extreme
outside odds for the Caulfield
Cup. Although he is a five-
year-old, the Frederick John
gelding has had only seven
starts for five wins. A year ago
Top Fred won a Maiden Plate
at Geelong, progressed to a
couple of provincial wins in
Improvers’ company, was taken
to Gawler (S.A.) to romp away
with a seven-furlongs event
there last June, and at his first
Melbourne metropolitan start
last Saturday cantered in
with the first Windarra High-
weight. All his wins have
been in sprints, and his
sire, Frederick John, has
yet to get a stayer. How-
ever, Frederick John was by
John James, sire of 1947 Aus-
tralian Cup winner Sydney
James. Bookmakers have now
lifted Top Fred from treble-
figure odds to a prominent
place in the Caulfield Cup
market.
Incidentally, Alan Burton,
recently back from America,
where he rode 11 winners, had
his first winning ride since the
trip, on Top Fred.
• • • •
There was a big attendance
at Caulfield last Monday week
to see the first two-year-old
trials of the season, conducted
under racing conditions, with
colors Up, and a course-
broadcast of each event. As
usual, the trial-winners were
not necessarily the most im-
pressive candidates in each
race. Most people marked
down Misting, a grey by
Meadow Mist (renowned sire
of two-year-olds), who dashed
over the first three furlongs
of his heat in 37fsec. and had
to be restrained to bring him
back to the field. Misting is
owned by Lady Manifold, wife
of Sir Chester, in partnership
with her daughter. Mr. W. R.
Kemball on his yearly trip to
the New Zealand sales pur-
chased a gelding by Count
Rendered (sire of Syntax), who
will race as Render ; he shaped
nicely in his trial. The Em-
pyrean colt for whom Joe
Mulcahy paid 3300gns.—he has
been named Early Mail—won a
heat in 49|sec.
* * *
Since he had pulled-up lame
after a gymkhana exhibition
five days earlier, Sky High had
to be taken on risk in the.
£lOOO Free-for-All at Harold
Park on Friday night. He had
beaten Caduceus under free-
for-all conditions last A^ril —
excellent form —but because of
lameness he had had to be
withdrawn from the subsequent
Easter Cup, which Caduceus
won.
The field that faced the
starter in the Free-for-All was
well above the commonplace:
Anytime, Match Point, Van
Hall, Mineral Spring, Kissing
Cup, Marine Dealer, Brilliant
Moon, Young Wexford
names that speak for them-
selves ; all candidates for the
approaching £5OOO Spring Cup.
Could Sky High equal his per-
formance against Caduceus?
Was Sibelia up to this class?
Which of them were ready to
show their best form, anyjvay?
Match Point got to the front
and carted them along at a fast
clip; Sky High and Sibelia
showed plenty of early toe, and
hovered about the lead. Two
master - reinsmen, Watts on
Sibelia and Binskin behind Sky
High, watched one another cat-
and-mouse style. Displaying
most guile on the night, Bin-
skin soon forced Watts up into
the death-trap position, one
outside the leader, while he was
content to hold Sky High one-
out behind the mare and follow,
waiting for any movement.
Cruising out three and some-
times four wide for two laps,
Adams brought Mineral Spring
in the last lap with the
challenge that was going to test
the new champ. Binskin waited
and met him in the back,
straight; but the big brown was
sweeping to him with all his old
precision, and leaving the back
stretch Mineral Spring looked
to have the measure of the
I'ght bay who had usurped his
position as the best pacer in
N.S.W.
But Binskin wheeled Sky
High on the turn into the
straight with all the confidence
of a driver who knows his horse
has his best to give
he did —too much, in fact for
Mineral Spring. Kicking right
on the line, Sky High got the
verdict by a neck ; Sibelia,
game as they come, was a
length-and-a-half away third.
They ran the Ilf furlongs in
3.Bfsec. outside Mineral
Spring’s race-record.
Now, looking for anything
to beat Sky High in the Spring
Cup—or any other event up to
the Inter-Dominion *—would
seem a waste of time. This is
a really fine pacer.
+ +
Football Round-up
X>EFORE nearly 75,000 at the
" M.C.G., Melbourne out-
played Hawthorn in the
preliminary-final, 22.12-11.10.
It thus avenged its two earlier
defeats by Hawthorn this year.
The Demons’ suspect forward-
line, which failed against
Essendon the previous week,
came really good. So ends
Hawthorn’s first finals-experi-
ence. Now, in the “grand,”
it’s Essendon and Melb On
top .11-2 at half-time, the
“mighty” Souths looked a good
thing- to race away with their
S.C.G. Rugby League final
against Manly. However, the
seasiders had other ideas; they
tightened their play in the
second stanza to the extent
that their opponents didn’t
score after the interval, while
they put on -13 points —two
determined tries by baldy Roy
Bull the match-winners—to
take it out 15-11. A surprise
result, disappointing in the
light of Saturday’s grand-final
with St. George and from the
viewpoint of Souths’ recovery
this half of the comp., but, on
the day, a well-earned victory.
Another “one for the
books” was Gordon’s 16-13
defeat of Randwick in Sydney’s
Rugby Union final on North
Sydney Oval. A bits-’n’-pieces
Gordon side, leftovers from
Wallaby selections and injuries,
looked to have little chance
against the Randwick XV ; but,
making best use of available
ammunition, Gordon played
its way into its third suc-
cessive grand-final (against St.
George at the Sportsground
this Saturday).
* * *
Cricket
Opening overs of the new
cricket-season:
Queensland all-rounder Ron
Archer last week withdrew from the
Australian team to South Africa,
fearing that his injured right knee
would not stand up to the rigors of
the tour. A sporting gesture, as, in
a medical check-up in July, Archer,
along with Davidson, was passed fit.
In a new job, with an oil-firm,


What a
difference
they
make!
I
mm
Hi
>; '
rv:
:■
r
\ 4 *
• %
V
V.
S':,"
1 II:
: . '
ilii
:
• : .
i;.
. :■
SELF-SUPPORTING AND
HAVE RUSTPROOF BUCKLES
EVERY SEAM IS
SERGED WITH AN OVERLOCK STITCH
You can see that difference. The first time you wear Stamina
Self-Supporting Trousers, you’ll know they are the most com-
fortable, attractive slacks you’ve ever had. That’s what happens
when fine fabrics are expertly cut and handsomely finished by
tailoring craftsmen. They fit perfectly. They look smarter.
Try a pair. See what a difference they make to you.
Available in all
the most wanted
shades:
Light Green Zircon
Nutmeg Fawn
Harbour Blue
Dark Green Reseda
Mist Grey
sff w k
\ ••' • " /
Mm |
/ii ' j •
V)
J ii§:.» ,«#*>*
\
...|-4?
zm
m
- r
lukot J okMa^v,
mm
J
m
W TA.11 3
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
Archer expects to be out of all big-
cricket this season.
Archer's replacement is one of the
“surprise omissions” from the
original team —Queensland's left-
hand batsman Ken Mackay. It
appears to be an unimaginative
choice. Mackay, of course, made
plenty of runs in Sheffield Shield
last season; but, having rejected
him, the selectors would surely have
been wiser to have gone either to
that other “shock omission” Norm
vO'Neiil or another younger, more
enterprising batsman. Against
Mackay can b'e held the fact that
the time when his cjefensive powers
were most needed —in the third and
fourth Tests in England in 1956 —he
made a total of 4 runs in lour
innings, out to Laker each time.
By the choice of Mackay, the
selectors have plumped for a bats-
man rather than a bowler. Certainiy
Mackay is a handy change-bowler
(right-hand medium-pace;, but he’s
not in the same class with the ball
as. Archer. The Australian team is
thus left with three pace-bowlers, so
Mackay will probably have to do his
share of trundling. One suggestion
handed to the selectors was to take
the spinner Dooland. It was a
reasonable suggestion—except that
the selectors would have had to
choose him on hearsay only, and
not on actually having seen him in
action lately, ft’s possibly sounder,
anyway, to wait and see how Doo-
land shapes in Shield cricket this
season.
Peter Burge has been named as
third selector for the tour —with
Craig and Harvey. A good choice,
though two or three others, such as
Benaud, Burke and Davidson, all
Burge's seniors as Test-players,
could have been given the post.
Burge did not consolidate a Test
possie in England in 1956, but he
batted nicely in Sheffield Shield
last season as well as in N.Z., and
looks now to be a regular Aus-
tralian Test-batsman for some time
to come.
Besides Dooland, N.S.W. fast-
bowler Pat Crawford may return to
Australian big-cricket this year.
Ciawford broke down in England
in 1956, and did not play any
cricket in Australia last summer.
He is practising with his Sydney
grade club, Petersham-Marrickville.
It was also reported that Arthur
Morris would attempt a comeback,
but Morris has said he won't be
playing any more cricket.
South Australia, which in recent
years has been ■ in the Shield merely
to make-up the numbers, might well
do a lot better this year. For one
thing Sir Donald himself is to coach
the State side, which should get a
lift from spinner Bruce Dooland,
who is available to play for S.A.
immediately. (Gil Langley is, with
Bradman and Ridings, a State selec-
tor this year.) Apropos the Don-
on his 49th birthday on Aug. 27,
the 8.8. C., in a fitting gesture,
made a short recording of the high-
l.ghts of his career, under the title
“One for his'so.”
The l.b.w. rule in Shield games
will not be changed. Bradman has
for some time been in favor of the
rule being altered so that an l.b.w.
decision can be given to a ball
pitched outside the leg-stump; but
the Board of Control will not have
it—possibly the best decision.
The new rule—tried out in
England this year —limiting to two
the number of fieldsmen behind the
crease at the moment of the bowler’s
d'elivery, is to be tried out in Shield
cricket this season. Also, there is
to be a new points-scoring system
designed to encourage captains' to
go for an outright. They’re steps in
the proper direction.


Weight Without Scales
with
WEIGHBAND
Mg
f
ill
Merely pull the Weighband
taut around the girth of the
animal and read off the
weight. Guaranteed accurate
to within 3% the Weighband
is simple to read and can be
carried in the pocket.
Only 35/-
Post Free
Gives Live & Dead
Weight of Pigs and
Cows by Girth
Measurement...
Save time, save money,
save trouble. Send for
your Weighband today.
WELCH PERRIN
& CO. PTY. LTD.
48-56 Queen’s Bridge St.,
South Melbourne, Vic.
Available from :
The DAKEN
CORPORATION
22-24 King Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
an
AXJ
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines).
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy the British and American
editions of “Vogue” for March,
si—(,sl9
~
e xc hang e a soft-bound copy
of Mary Gilmores Mam d and
Other Verses (1910) for one or more
oi her pre-war books of poetry or
reminiscences.—6sBl.
A letter from South Africa: “1
am 16, and would like a pen-friend
(boy or girl, 16-20) anywhere in
Australia. Interests: tennis, cricket,
ballroom-dancing, reading, animals
and postcards. Joy Kershaw, 5 Fifth
Avenue, Walmer, Port Elizabeth.”
To buy the following: “Journal
and Proceedings of the Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society” (Vols.
1-3; Vol. 4—Pts. 1-3, 5,6; Vols.
5,6; Vol. 7—Pts. 1-3; Vol. 8—
Pi. 2; Vol. 9—Pt. 7; Vol. 11—Pts.
5.. 7; Vol. 12—Pt. 7; Vol. 13—Pt.
7. Vol. 14—Pts. 5, 7- Vol. 15
Pts. 1, 4-7; Vols". 16-18’; Vol. 19
Pts. 1-3, 5-7; Vol. 20 Pts. 1-3
5-7; Vol. 21— Pts. i-5, 7; Vol. 22
—Pts. 1-5, 7; Vol. 23—Pts’. 1,4, 7;
Vol. 24; Vol. 25—Pts. 1, 3-5 ’ 7;
Vol. 27—Pts. 1,2, 4).—6586. ’ ’
- r - . „ - ~ „ • .
and ?°Z g L JO R U ™
Society of NSW” (Vols 1 *3 8)-
“Panf-rc anH " S c’ f ti!’
£ SnSv of Tai" g o S n-°- f >
vears 1875 1 R7?f^BB(f ’
XBB y iBBQ iBQt s 78 ’ I«Q7°’ ioao s,
-SrSJpli m 900;
c °Vn T ?sV
Vols 1 6 ‘‘wL Vslh 15);
Vols. 1-6 Wild Life. -6587.
lo buy the following: “Register
of Australian and New Zealand
Shipping,” for Che years 1874-5,
1876-7, 1879-80, 1883-4, 1886-7,
«,??6-7, upp 1. to 1934
. 2nd Suppl. to
1946 “Register” (1947-8); Vol. XVI
of the “Register of Stud Merino
Flocks of the Commonwealth of
A ustralia.”-6584.
To buy the following music, in any
condition (all songs that were
popular during the ’twenties and
*“*ies a A nd u a , re ,now out of print):
Linger Awhile, June Night,- I
Love You, Rose Room, ‘Lazy,
lv^ r .’ Dsed Dove
. . An B|y> a; d , ,‘ 1 n
Madeleine n fb ai py
Bound,” “Dons,” “Glad Rag Doll,
“Swingin’ Down the Lane.”—6sBs.
.r
linormation bought
„ w ,, „ „ , ,
Brief account of the Great Trek?
The Great Trek lasted from 1836
to 1840, in which period more than
7 000 Boers, including women and
children, emigrated from Cape
Colony into the great plains beyond
the Orange River. They were
irritated by restrictions on slavery
and b y the sympathetic native policy
lhe Bntish Government. Those
under A. H. Potgieter passed beyond
Vaal River, and settled in what
became the Transvaal, while those
under Piet Relief crossed the
Drakensberg Mountains to Zululand
and Natal (Relief was treacher-
ously slain in Feb., 1838, by
Dingaan, King of the Zulus.) Natal
was made a British colony in 1843,
after further struggles between the
Boers and the British, while Trans-
vaal (though annexed by the British
in 1877 —till 1880) and the Orange
Free State remained free Boer
republics till after the Boer War.
* * * *
Brief particulars of Australian
author Russell Braddon ?
Born in Sydney in 1919, he studied
Law at Sydney University, and,
enlisting, “completed his education”
by spending four years as a p.-0.-w.
of the Japanese. After the war he
went to England to recuperate from
a variety of tropical illnesses, and
joined-up with the Piddingtons (he
had known Piddington as a
p.-0.-w.); for three years he toured
with them as their “personal
manager” and as comic-relief in
their show. He now lives in
England; earlier this year he paid
a short visit to Australia, leaving on
April 26 for a six-weeks lecture-
tour of the U.S.A. on the way
back. His books are The Pidding-
tons (1950), Naked Island (1951),
Cheshire, V.C.: A Story of War and
Peace (1954), Those in Peril (1954),
a novel of the underworld of spivs
and deserters, Out of the Storm
(1956), another novel, and Nancy
Wake: The Story of a Very Brave
Woman (1956). He is at present
working on a sequel to Naked
Island.
* * * *
(1) Brief outline of the tremulant
attachment on a pipe-organ? (2)
Any special skill required to produce
the tremulant effect?
(1) The organ tremulant is a
mechanical device causing fluctua-
tion in the wind-supply, thus
producing a “wave” or vibration to
the sound. Before reaching the
pipes, air is admitted to a box
containing a pallet on the end of
which is a thin weighted aim ot
metal ; the admitted air raises the
pallet, thereby forcing the metal arm
to swing up and down. This gives
an alternate increase and diminution
of wind-pressure and consequent
vibrato in the tone. (2) The tremu-
lant suffers from over-use ; great
care is needed to keep it in its proper
place, that is, as an occasional effect.
In fact, the special skill required
would seem to be to use it as in-
frequently as possible. Cinema-
organists have popularised the use of
the tremulant in conjunction with
the reed-stop vox humana. Used
sparingly, however, the tremulant
comes over equally effectively with
string, flute or other reed-stops. A
detailed discussion of the tremu-
lant is impossible ; so much depends
on the size of the building or
character of the instrument’s stops.
Again, no two tremulants are quite
alike: some may “beat” faster than
others, and vice versa. To use a
fast-beating tremulant with any reed-
stop (vox humana included) generally
pipduces a poor effect ; that’s why
some large organs have two or more
tremulants, each set on different
beating-rates. On the other hand,
the occasional use of the tremulant
with a flute-stop, such as the 8-foot
Clarabella or Hohlflute, is delight-
ful. It must again be stressed,
though, that the tremulant is most
effective in very small doses.
* * * *
What is the Federation of British
Industries?
This is a voluntary association of
manufacturing firms in the United
Kingdom and Northern Ireland. It
is financed by the annual subscrip-
tions of its members, which dumber
about 7500 firms and 300 trade-
associations. The latter comprise
another 45,000 manufacturing nrms.
Jhe federation was founded in
1916. its aims, as described in its
Royal Charter (granted in 1923), are
“the encouragement, promotion and
protection of British industries of all
kinds.” Though strictly non-
political, the scope of its work
covers the whole range of industrial
activity—except labor questions, the
province of the British
Employers’ Confederation. 11 s
principal functions: (1) To
formulate the policies of British
industry on current problems, both
national and international, and to
promote such policies with the
British Government and others
concerned; (2) to provide services,
both at home and overseas, of
information, advice and practical
help to individual members of the
F. 8.1.; (3) to organise promotional
activities on behalf of British
industry (e.g., the F. 8.1. Scholar-
ships scheme for graduate engineers
fiom overseas). The federation’s
policy is determined by a Grand
Council, on which are represented
the trade - associations and all
sections of industry; the council
meets once a moijth. The president
of the federation is elected annually,
but normally holds office for two
years ; he is assisted in his work by
an advisory committee consisting ot
the immediate past presidents, in
addition to the many special
committees that the Grand Council
may appoint, there are standing
committees on such subjects as
economic policy, overseas - trade
policy, export-trade promotion,
taxation, fuel and power, transport,
education, technical legislation and
overseas scholarships.
Brief Answers
H.W.K.: Don’t know of any
specifically. Write either Melbourne
oi Sydney Public Library S.V.:
As printed also in B. 24/4 / ’57, the
form of sentence for the punish-
ment of hanging, drawing and
quartering, was: “That the traitor
be dragged along the surface of the
ground, tied to the tail of a horse
and drawn to the gallows and there
hanged by the neck until he be half-
dead and then cut down; and his
entrails be cut out of his body and
burnt by the executioner; then his
head is to be cut off, his body to be
divided into quarters, and after-
wards his head and quarters to be


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MSRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
WHY SUFFER FROM
RHEUMATISM
OR
ARTHRITIS
THIS WILL INTEREST YOU
When Mr. R. A. Stratton was given an old Indian formula for
the relief of Rheumatic complaints some 30 years ago, he had no
idea that one day he would be sending the Powder around the
world to relieve sufferers. “Naturally, as a strong, robust youth,
I thought little about it at the time,” said Mr. Stratton, “but in
later years I became a chronic Arthritis sufferer myself, so I had
the formula made up* by a chemist and took a course of the
Powder for some months, which effected a complete cure.
“I naturally sympathised with anyone else who had been
similarly afflicted, so I decided to have the Powders prepared
in commercial quantities so I could help the numerous sufferers
from Rheumatism and Arthritis, and I must confess the results
have been amazing.”
The Company started selling the
Powder some 3 years ago. and for
a start its sales were limited to
this State, but, as a result of its
success, it was quickly acclaimed
a WORLD DISCOVERY and its
fame spread throughout Aus-
tralasia and Overseas until we now
have a worldwide clientele of
over 30.000 and we have obtained
an enviable reputation for our
ability to bring relief to all types
of RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS-.
This result, we are proud to say,
has been achieved without the use
of harmful drugs or painful injec-
tions.
One lady in South Perth who had
suffered from Rheumatism for
years and could not even open
her hands, and had been declared
incurable, can now move her hands
quite normally, and with perfect
freedom from pain.
Another Perth lady had been a
sufferer for years and was com-
pletely crippled for 7 months out
of every 12. She sought relief in
Europe and America, bad gold in-
jections and Cortizone—all to no
avail. She was advised to try the
mud baths in N.Z., and still
found no relief, yet after she had
taken a course of our Powder she
was able to go dancing. Her age
was 65. This well-known Hotel
Licensee has subsequently been
pleased to recommend our Powder
to numerous sufferers who have
long sought a reliable remedy for
the relief of their complaints.
Recently a loyal Danish subject
who declared himself cured of
Rheumatism and Lumbago by the
use of our Powder, asked us to
send 3 cartons to King Frederick
VIII of Denmark, who suffers from
Lumbago, and we were pleased to
accede to his request. The
addresses of the above mentioned
can be seen at our Office, as well
as hundreds of original testi-
monials.
Prepared from the purest and
finest ingredients, the Powder is
a NATURAL, REMEDY and NON-
HABIT FORMING, contains NO
DRUGS and can be taken with
perfect confidence by young and
old alike who are afflicted with
complaints of the RHEUMATIC
GROUP.
Sufferers who have had Cortizone,
A.C.T.H. Gold Injections, Ray
Treatment —all alike have found
relief with our proven remedy, of
whose record we are justly proud.
Thousands have found relief from
suffering. WHY NOT YOU?
FOUR WEEKS’ SUPPLY CARTON complete with Instruc-
tion Pamphlet, TREATMENT ADVICE and SPECIAL
CONCESSION RATE VOUCHER if your complaint needs
further treatment costs only £1 POST FREE Send to:
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER Pty. Ltd.
9 BARRACK ST.. PERTH. W.A.
set up in some open places directed.”
V.T.: (1) Capricornia, by
Xavier Herbert, was first published
in 1938. It has run to several
editions, and was issued by Angus
and Robertson in a new edition in
1956. (2) Alfred Francis Xavier
Herbert was born at Port Hedland
(W.A.) in 1901....H.R.: See My
Eyes Have a Cold Nose , by Hector
Chevigny (1947), available at
Sydney Public Library L.J.8.:
Yes, Australian Olympic runner
Betty Cuthbert’s 23.25ec. for 200-
metres, set at Moore Park (Sydney)
on Sept. 16, 1956, has now been
ratified as the world-record. Earlier
it had been thought that an official
blunder would prevent the time
being accepted... .J.R.F.: (1) A
caduceus is the staff of office of a
herald. Specifically, it’s the staff
or wand of Hermes or Mercury,-
adorned at first with garlands, later
with two coiled serpents about it. A
representation of the staff is the
symbol of a physician. (2) Lapis
lazuli is a precious stone whose
characteristic color is a rich azure
blue. It is probably the sapphire
of the ancients Alan: (1) It was
officially announced in July this year
that it was General Franco’s inten-
tion to restore the monarchy in
Spain. (2) No fixed date for the
restoration was given. (3) He’s
expected to be Prince Juan Carlos,
aged 19, grandson of the last King
of Spain (Alfonso XIII), who was
deposed in 1931... .C.H.D.: The
Canberra florin is still legal tender
for circulation as currency. In
perfect mint condition the col-
lector’s value is double face...,
Warick: Payment of pars, is on line-
age, and must be claimed for, with
lelevant particulars—date of issue,
page, etc.... .C.J.L.: The address
you’re after could be 4 Chome
Ginza, Tokyo... .J.T.: Write the
South Australian Museum, North
Terrace, Adelaide L.C.T.: The
following are the Everyman s ver-
sions of the game. Bagatelle is a
game, possibly derived from
billiards, played with balls on a
board or table varying in size from
6ft. x lift, to 10ft. x 3ft. The bed,
either slate or wood, is covered with
green cloth, and has at its upper
end nine numbered cups to receive
the balls. Round the sides there is
an india-rubber cushion; Nine balls
are used, generally one black, four
led and four white. The black ball
is placed on a spot about 9in. in
front of the first hole, and at the
player’s end, about 18in. up, there
is a balk-line, with another spot
behind it from which to start play.
(These measurements vary with the
size of table.) The balls are struck
with a cue, as in billiards; the
object, to drive them into the holes,
the black ball counting double.
Following, the best-known forms
ol the game. (a) Ordinary—each
player sends all the balls up; no
score allowed until the black is
touched. (6) The French version—
two players (or four in partners)
take part, playing alternately, (c)
Cannon Bagatelle—more resembles
billiards, and may be played witfi
either cups or pockets or both. ( d )
Mississippi—played with a bridge
having nine or more numbered
arches (according to the table),
through which the balls must be
played off the cushion.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contribution voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
W.R.: No; but it’s intriguing....
L.S.: One line: —
Sing me a song, said the sausage . . .
Bob A- Link: Not even when
the sea danced a can-can could it
tempt us 8.L.: If your ballad was
as terse as the covering-letter you’d
fly in J.S.: “ ’Twas Ten Miles
Outside Mullewa” is about ten miles
outside publication, but you may do
something yet... .M.R.C.: Good
bush atmosphere; the theme rather
worn, the style wordy... .V.M.R.:
Well may you wonder... .W.R.:
“On the River” nice but just a
trickle M.G.: Can’t quite see
“An Ending” but would like to read
others J.R.M.: You’ve a long
way to go .K.D.8.: Let’s have a
bit of it for old times’ sake:
ON REIDIES FLAT
[“Reidies Flat” was situated between
Flemington and Homebush, N.S.W. The
Reids were a pioneer family, and the
surviving members still live at Fleming-
ton.]
We learned our game on “Reidies Flat”:
We seldom had a decent bat,
The turf we chipped to make the
wicket —
And that was where, we played our
cricket.
’Twas rarely that a ball came true,
You never knew what it might do.
You’d think you had it covered fine
When, bump—you’d get a “bodyline” !
The kid that made the runs could bat.
When we played Tests on “Reidies
Flat.”
In summer-time it was the rule
To hurry home each day from school
And congregate on “Reidies Flat”
Then toss to see who’d take the bat.
No shoes (of course) our feet adorned.
The pads (we didn’t have) we scorned.
We often got a solid knock
When one shot through we couldn’t
block.
The ‘ bindi-eyes’’ were even worse.
You’d hear some youngster start to curse
When he would scamper through a
patch
When chasing one he couldn’t catc-h.
Reggie Reid’s old sheepdog Chang
Would rush out when it heard the bang
Of ball upon the kero.-tin —
It used to make a frightful din.
When Chang rushed out we used to
scoot,
By gosh it was a savage brute.
In later years we made the grade
And for the district often played
But when we struck a rotten wicket
We’d think of where we learned our
cricket
And how we played on “Reidies Flat”
When we were kids and learned to bat.
... .S.S.: Conventional description;
and redgums don’t “gossip”
A.H.: Stick to cooking J.M.:
Too many words; not enough form
in “Premature Dead Venus”
J.E.M.: You should be very, very
careful before presuming to rhyme
“radiance” with “cadence”
A.J.L.: No faith in “You’ve Got
to Have Faith”.,. .K.D.8.: Two
lines, then:—
The working dog is Drover’s friend,
And soon reflects its master’s trend.
N.C.: Unable to give detailed
criticism of huge, handwritten
MSS. In general they’re miles from
the mark and you'd have to start
at the beginning by five years’ con-
stant reading of 'this century’s
poetry G.C.: “Several days ago
i wrote a poem to send you and
gave it to my son going to school
to post. However, he now tells
me he lost it.” Reward him, and
bring him up to be a literary critic.
. ...E.S.C.: “O to roll in the grass,
devour the green . . .” Very nice;
but are you, by any chance, a
horse?.... F.M.: It’s a problem:
THE WANDERING MEN
tell me what the wandering men
are looking for
the groups of men in suits and ties
who wander slowly
along Kings Cross streets
from dark till
after midnight
with their hands deep in their pockets
with blank know-not expressions
on their pale w r ell-shaven faces . . .
R.L.A.: One or two good
epigrams in “Old Mother Earth.”


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
COMMUNISM IN IKE MIDDLE EAST
\ir7RITING in “Problems of
* * Communism,” an Ameri-
can bi-monthly given to exami-
nation of various aspects of
world Communism, Walter Z.
Laqueur discounts the theory
that the Soviet’s present interest
in the Middle East is old policy;
rather, he considers, it began
with a decisive change in
Soviet policy in 1955.
Laqueur, editor of the Lon-
don monthly newsletter,
“Soviet Survey,” and author of
Communism and Nationalism
in the Middle East, notes that a
measure of this 1955 change
“is provided by Moscow’s
about-face toward Egypt.”
“When the Neguib-Nasser
regime came to power in July,
1952, it was at first denounced
as madly reactionary, cruel,
anti-democratic, terrorist. A
book on Egypt published in
1953 defined the policy of the
new Government as ‘dema-
gogic’ and ‘anti-working-class,’
and argued that the ‘progres-
sive’ military leaders who had
originally belonged to the junta
had been excluded. In 1954 the
Anglo-Egyptian Treaty was
condemned by a Soviet
Academy of Sciences publica-
tion as ‘contrary to the national
interests of Egypt and the other
Arab countries.’ Rather
ominously it was stated that
‘ihe Egyptian toilers would
have to fight many a battle
before the victory of real
democracy.’
“By early 1955, however,
these criticisms had been toned
down. A volume printed in
May, 1955, still criticised the
Cairo Government for its ‘anti-
popular measures’ such as
‘restricting the rights of the
workers, defending the big
feudal landowners against revo-
lutionary measures,’ and so on.
But such unfriendly remarks
had virtually ceased, and soon
thereafter the leading theme in
.Soviet publications (and, more
important, in Soviet policy)
became friendship and support
for Egypt.
“A similar change took place
in Moscow’s attitude toward
the other Arab countries, with
the exception of Irak, which
had joined the Baghdad Pact.
Nothing dramatic happened to
Soviet relations with Turkey
and Persia, though certain
efforts were made to ‘normalise’
relations. In its attitude
toward Israel, however,
Moscow clearly showed its
opportunistic face. As long as
the Kremlin believed that it
had no prospects with the Arab
countries it had supported
Israel, counting on this to serve
as a factor of instability in the
area. A natural result of the
rapprochement with the Arab
countries was that Soviet policy
toward Israel became more and
more hostile.
Ideological Justifications
“The fact that there was an
ideological justification for the
new line and a general concept
as to how things were to
develop in the Middle East is of
undoubted interest and import-
ance. But it does not mean
that such ideological considera-
tions caused the changes in
Soviet Middle Eastern policy—
they followed it. The change
that took place in 1955 can be
explained without reference to
ideological schemes.
“Moscow realised that the
Middle East had become a
highly explosive area in world
politics, stirred by deep ten-
sions and conflicts. It assumed
that by further inflaming
nationalist passions these con-
flicts and tensions could be
intensified and directed against
the West. (The antiquated idea
that Communism was interested
only in social conflicts had
long since been discarded ; in
Asia, as some observers have
put it, the cold war had
replaced the class war.) What
made the Middle East and the
Arab countries particularly
promising was the fact that
owing to a specific set of his-
torical circumstances, national
and religious traditions, and
perhaps national psychology,
they offered a most fertile
ground for extremist anti-
Western movements.
“Without going into detail,
the beginning of the Soviet
political offensive in the
Middle East can be traced
from the visit of Mr. Shepilov
(then merely editor of ‘Pravda’)
to Cairo in the summer of
1955. The Egyptian-Czechoslo-
vak arms deal which followed,
as was subsequently admitted
by Colonel Nasser, had really
been concluded with Moscow,
not Prague. During the various
crises of 1956, from the
nationalisation of the Suez
Canal Company to the Sinai
war and Port Said expedition,
Soviet foreign policy came out
squarely in favor of Egypt s
demands, and gave full support
to the demands of the other
Arab Powers in every possible
way. These demands, as
formulated by the ‘liberated
Arab countries’ (Egypt and
Syria), nowhere clashed with
Soviet interests, but all along
N. Y. “Herald Tribune"
CAMEL’S NOSE IN THE TENT—1957 VERSION.
the line came into conflict with
the interests of Western
Europe: the Suez Canal, the
threat to Middle Eastern oil,
Israel and Turkey. Aside from
expenses for political
propaganda, there was no great
sacrifice involved in Moscow’s
pretending to champion these
aspirations.
“The main danger from the
Soviet point of view was (and
is) that the Arab countries
would realise they were paying
for Soviet support by impeding
their own progress. As long as
they remained embroiled with
foreign enemies, real or
imagined, they would not be
able to tackle their own
domestic problems. And as
long as they did not tackle their
domestic problems, Com-
munism could make progress in
this part of the world. Un-
fortunately, such a sober
assessment seems very remote
j n the Middle East of today,
with national passions, fanned
by Soviet foreign policy, run-
nmg high.
The Economic and Cultural
fiffpneivp
„ . .. . , _
. S° viet political offen-
sive has been matched, though
,n a less spectacular way, in the
of economics and cultural
propaganda. The amount of
trade between the Arab
countries and the Soviet bloc
( plus China) rose considerably
in 1955-56, and many new
trade-agreements were signed.
“The Egyptian-Soviet arms
deal amounted to about $3OO-
- million, and Egypt thus
incurred a heavy debt. In
1956 about 40 per cent, of
Egypt’s cotton went to the
Soviet bloc, compared with 14
per cent, in 1954. Of the
$lOOO-million-worth of credit
granted since 1954 by Moscow
to non-Communist countries,
Egypt has received more than
a third—the biggest share of
any nation including India —
indicating clearly how much
importance was attributed to
relations with Cairo. Most
other Communist countries
also have made loans to Egypt,
Syria and, to a lesser degree,
the rest of the Arab countries,
East Germany, Hungary,


Faith in the
Future
b
Like a majestic bird returning in age to the
scene of its proudest flying, the famous aircraft
Southern Cross is to go back to Eagle Farm airport,
Brisbane, for enshrinement in a glassed memorial.
To those of us who were at the controls of
“flying machines” in the earlier days of aviation,
and who knew Sir Charles Kingsford Smith well,
this is an event of special significance.
I think of the times when I used to look out
from my own cockpit and see him flying alongside
me over Belgium during the First World War. We
were in the Royal Flying Corps together.
There are other lasting memorials to Kingsford
Smith’s fame. The airport at Sydney was renamed
in his honour, as was a main thoroughfare leading
to the airport at Brisbane.
But this latest tribute, linking his memory as
it does with that of his ‘‘Old Bus,” is one which, I
believe, would most appeal to him. For the trusty
Fokker will rest in the very field on which he put
it down after he and his colleagues had made the
first flight across the Pacific in 1928.
They had flown from Oakland, California,
which has its own monument to their departure on
one of the great flights of history.
When they arrived at Brisbane 29 years ago
Eagle Farm was a paddock. Its hangars, sufficient
for the time, were a series of sheds. Today it is a
major national airport with a new main runway
alone costing £1,300,000.
I like the thought that along with the old
aircraft itself, the memorial will include “Smithy’s”
log-book and his uniform. For here we are
honouring something vital, personal; the influence
of a spirit that lives beyond the reckoning of time.
The first aerial spanning of the Pacific was
only one of his notable contributions to international
flying. But what that one achievement added to
the Australian story in peace and in war, and to
human progress, for all future time, can never
be estimated.
////asf^ s
Poland and others in the Com-
munist camp sent high-ranking
economic delegations to the
Arab capitals, took a promin-
ent part in trade-fairs, and with
State assistance occasionally
undercut the West in their
tenders for building industrial
plants or communication net-
works.
“The motives behind this
trade expansion in the Middle
East were almost exclusively
political and strategic, as shown
by the fact that Moscow was
far more willing to provide
arms than to participate in pro-
jects for peaceful economic
construction. This emerged
clearly in the summer of 1956.
Until then Moscow hinted that
it would be only too glad to
finance the Aswan high dam if
Western assistance were not
forthcoming. However, after
the announcement that Western
loans would not be given at
once, the U.S.S.R. retreated and
announced that it did not
believe the project to be of
great urgency.
“Soviet cultural propaganda,
too, was stepped-up during
1955-56. Thirty-three Soviet
and satellite cultural delega-
tions visited Egypt, and 34
Egyptian groups went to the
Soviet - bloc countries. In
August, 1956, Sergei Kaftanov,
Deputy Minister of Culture,
toured the Middle and
signed a broad agreement with
Syria covering exchanges in the
fields of science, arts, general
and technical education,
physical training and sports,
pooling of cultural information,
exchange of films, scholarships,
students, and so on. Similar
agreements were later signed
with other Arab countries.
“In early 1957 Moscow sent
a Soviet film festival and ballet
company to Cairo, and various
Egyptian and Sudanese delega-
tions visited the U.S.S.R. The
Stalin peace prize was con-
ferred in 1956 on a Syrian
Imam, Shaikh Muhammad al
Ashmar, and the pilgrimage
of Soviet Muslims to Mecca
continued.
“Soviet newspapers dur-
ing 1956 and early 1957 pub-
lished frequent interviews with
visiting writers, composers and
painters from Arab countries,
and reported their willingness
to learn from Soviet rather
than Western models. Such
reports were perhaps exagger-
ated, but there is no doubt that
Soviet culture made a con-
siderable impact on some Arab
countries.
“To sum up thus far, Soviet
policy in the Middle East has
to its credit some important
achievements. But the Soviet
involvement in this area has
simultaneously given birth to
many problems and complica-
tions that did not exist in the
past and that will to a growing
extent bedevil Soviet policy in
the future. Until 1955 the
Soviet position in the Middle
East was very advantageous
indeed: ‘Western imperialists’
were the ‘ins’ and the Soviets
were the ‘outs.’ As a result
Moscow could point to its
unselfish disinterest vis-a-vis
the Middle East, asserting that
its only ambition was to see
these countries free and
independent, in contrast to the
West, which wanted to ‘enslave’
them. Seen from Cairo or
Beirut, the Soviet Union
appeared in 1954 a very far-
away country—there simply
was no danger ‘from the
North.’
“This, however, is no longer
the case in 1957. In order to
understand Moscow’s present
position, the problems raised
by more direct Soviet interven-
tion in the Middle East must be
examined.
Religious Question
“One of the issues that has
become topical, and from the
Soviet point of view a rather
sensitive subject, is Moscow’s
attitude towards Islam and the
Muslim peoples of the U.S.S.R.
Soviet overtures to the Arab
countries have not basically
affected its opposition to the
‘reactionary essence’ of Islam
and ‘Pan-Islamism’; in fact,
hostility to the Islamic religion
has recently been expressed by
references to the ‘cult of
Muhammad’ in terms of the
‘cult of the individual.’
“At the same time, the tone
of Soviet anti-Islamic publica-
tions has been softened, and
Soviet writers are now ready
to admit that certain religious
dignitaries in Indonesia, Syria
and Egypt have played a pro-
gressive role in the ‘struggle
for liberation.’ There has been
also some modification in the
official Soviet attitude toward
the national traditions of the
Central Asian minorities under
its control and toward such
Muslim heroes as Shamil, a
19th-century North Caucasian
leader previously condemned as
a reactionary. Explicit and
complete rehabilitation of such
leaders has been opposed,
however.
“Interestingly, Soviet hostility
towards Islam has not yet made
a great impact on the Middle
East. When Western repre-
sentatives have called attention
to Soviet attacks on Islam (for
instance, Klimovich’s recent
brochure), Arab publicists have


argued that this was a Western
calumny and probably untrue
—and that, even if true, such
attacks were irrelevant because
they could not do any damage
to Islam.
“Nevertheless, M o s c o w’s
hostile attitude towards Islam
may in the near future become
more of a headache to Soviet
policy-makers than it is at
present. In that case, it is not
impossible that the Soviet
Government would put a tem-
porary embargo on anti-Islamic
propaganda. It may well be
that Moscow could afford such
a closed season for a few years.
The remnants of Islamic
religion in the U.S.S.R. may
constitute a social and dis-
ciplinary problem, but it is
doubtful that they are still a
factor of major political
importance.
The Growth of Anti-
Communism
“The direct intervention of
the Soviet Union in the Middle
East has rallied and consoli-
dated the counter-forces within
the area. From the very
beginning Middle Eastern
Governments have differed in
their appraisal of the character
and desirability of Soviet inter-
vention. These differences have
grown and are bound to spread
as Soviet involvement becomes
more palpably felt.
“This is a serious danger to
Moscow’s designs, and it is
significant that Soviet spokes-
men have made considerable
efforts to create the impression
that Soviet activities in the
Middle East were welcomed by
all, or at least by all but one,
of the Arab Governments.
King Saud has not been criti-
cised despite his pact with the
United States, and Moscow
studiously has refrained from
singling out King Hussein for
his part in the Jordan crisis,
despite his denunciation of
international Communism.’
Unnamed ‘reactionary circles’
.vere blamed for the Jordan
developments in April, 1957.)
.he Lebanese Government, on
ne other hand, has been
attacked in the Soviet press for
.s co-operation with the West,
perhaps because Lebanon
as not a participant in the
gyptian - Syrian - Jordan -
tudi bloc that had emerged in
>56.
“How can one explain the
markable restraint displayed
Mosco-v in the face of the
riendly actions by King
. -u and King Hussein?
“The reason undoubtedly is
the o .ginal Soviet plan was
leutrahse and win over as
much as possible the entire
Arab world (except, of course,
Irak, which under the present
Government was a hopeless
proposition from the Soviet
point of view). For this reason
Moscow wanted to prevent a
split on pro-Soviet and anti-
Soviet lines among the Arab
countries. But the logic of
events was such that the more
pronounced Soviet involve -
ment became, the more likely
—indeed inevitable—such a
split became. As long as Russia
was ‘out,’ the Middle Eastern
Governments could feel that
Soviet policy was not an urgent
problem. But once the U.S.S.R.
had moved into the area, each
was compelled to take a stand.
“It seems virtually certain
that this is gradually becoming
the major political problem in
the area. Differences of opinion
with regard to the U.S.S.R.
may be glossed over tempor-
arily, but such compromises
cannot be expected to hold very
long. Similarly Moscow wants
to postpone as long as possible
any split between the various
Arab Governments, but sooner
or later it will be compelled to
take sides in a conflict it has
helped to provoke.
The Middle Eastern Com-
munist Parties
“Another major problem for
Moscow is the activities of the
Middle Eastern Communist
parties. Communist parties
exist in all major Arab
countries, and it is of course
Moscow’s wish that these
parties should one day rule.
During the past few years most
of them have greatly expanded
and their influence has
increased. But the conditions
for their growth and progress
toward political power are
unequal in the various coun-
tries. Furthermore, the rise of
Communism in one country has
been accompanied by a rise of
anti-Communism in others, and
this process will continue. Two
years ago many people in the
Middle East still declared that
Communism was not a major
political issue in the area.
Today the situation is radically
changed.
“The Arab Communists have
tried to counter these dangers
by pointing out time and again
that they are not ‘separatists’
but part and parcel of the Arab
national movement.
“All this may serve as a
partial smokescreen. But such
tactics cannot be completely
successful for the simple reason
that the Communists parties
continue to exist, and it is not
altogether unknown that their
a; male amoitions are very
. . nt from their ...cut
moderate stand. It is also
known that they are in close
contact (to put it mildly) with
Moscow and that essentially
they remain ‘foreign’ parties,
which in the long-run is a
very dangerous thing to be in
the highly charged nationalist
atmosphere of the Middle East.
The Communists have
attempted to counter any such
line of thought by outshining
all others in the nationalist
fervor of their anti-Israeli and
anti- Western slogans.
“Both from the doctrinal
and political point of view,
Moscow is confronted with a
predicament for which there
are no easy solutions: in the
long run the Middle Eastern
Communist parties, some of
which have already emerged as
major political forces, are an
important asset. But as far as
the present is concerned they
are a source of embarrassment,
and Moscow will have to do a
great deal of clever tactical
manoeuvring to steer clear of
difficult situations. Middle
Eastern Communists apparently
have been ‘advised’ not only
to forget about Socialist
reforms for the time being, but
also not to adhere too closely
to another once basic tenet of
Leninism, ‘proletarian inter-
nationalism.’
International Repercussions
“Other difficulties exist on
the level of international rela-
tions. The attraction which the
Soviet Union holds for some
sections of the population in
the Middle East consists of
mutually exclusive factors. The
Soviet Union has to appear
high on the crest of the wave
of the future (like Germany and
Italy in the late 1930’5) because
weakness has never evoked
much esteem in the Middle
East. On the other hand, this
strength must not be too much
in evidence, lest it arouse the
fears of the highly suspicious
political elites in these parts.
This demands much discreet
and subtle manoeuvring behind
the scenes on the part of Soviet
diplomats and other emissaries.
“The complications created
for Soviet policy in Western
Europe as a result of its activi-
ties in the Middle East are also
difficult, though apparently
not crucial. If the present
Soviet aim were to make head-
way in Europe—primarily by
recapturing the spirit of Geneva
—it would probably have to
tone down its anti-Western cam-
pa, gn in the Middle East. But
the general impression gained
ove the last months is that
'Scow does not consider
Europe a very promising
terrain for its policy of ‘peace-
ful coexistence,’ whereas the
Middle East, in the eyes of the
Soviet leadership, offers definite
possibilities of success. Con-
sequently, there is no point in
its wooing the West and
making major concessions—its
smiles should be concentrated
on the Middle East.
“The main problem for Mos-
cow is how to counter
American foreign policy in the
Middle East. Geographically,
the United States is much
further away from the area
than the U.S.S.R., which
should make it less suspect in
Arab eyes. Unlike other
Western Powers, the U.S. has
had no Middle Eastern
colonies, nor has it followed
an anti-Muslim policy towards
a large Muslim minority, as has
the U.S.S.R. Moreover, the
Soviet Union cannot compete
at present with American offers
of technical help and economic
assistance.
“These disadvantages explain
the intense Soviet propaganda
efforts to present the United
States as a ‘neo-colonial’ Power
which wants to ‘enslave and
exploit the free Arab nations.’
Hence also the stress put time
and again on the allegation that
the Soviet Union merely wants
a neutral and free Middle East,
whereas the West wishes to
ensnare it in all kinds of
military pacts and alliances.
Whether the ‘positive neutral-
ism’ sponsored by Soviet
spokesmen for the benefit of
the Middle East is either
positive or neutral is highly
debatable. But there can be no
doubt that the slogan has been
very effective in view of the
strong trend in the Middle East
to keep away from Great Power
conflicts (and perhaps to join
the stronger camp at a later
stage).
“All of the foregoing obser-
vations on the factors affecting
Soviet policy in the Middle East
may be summarised simply:
seen from Moscow, the Middle
East has by 1957 become the
most promising area for the
extension of Soviet and Com-
munist influence. But carry-
ing out this aim is hardly a
matter of clear sailing for
Soviet policy-planners and local
Communist leaders, for thete
are crucial obstacles to over-
come. The outcome will depend
in part on Western policy, but
it is mainly the Arab Govern-
ments and political dlites who
must choose between making it
easier, or very difficult, for
Moscow to pursue its expan-
sionist road.”


POWERED
FOR ALMOST EVERY JOB
PRICED
RIGHT FOR EVERY PROPERTY
I
m
*
0
n
FERGUSON
COMPARE what you get with what you pay and there's
lust one logical choice for you—the and powerful
new Ferguson '3s'! The new high-torque, high-compres-
sion, higher horsepower engine, working through the
new 8-speed gearbox, gives you really flexible power
right through the range, from crawling speeds as low
as 0.3 m.p.h* up to road speeds as fast* as 14 m.p.h.
The new and wonderfully simple quadramatic control
quadrant gives you complete command of Lift, Depth,
Position and Response all without moving your hand
more than six inches.
Present Ferguson owners will be pleased
to note that their existing implements
can ALL be used with the new Ferguson
35.
See us now for a demonstration: —
6 MODELS
Petrol, Kero,
Diesel, Regu-
lar and De
Luxe
04u/ Mr Sac&ecf 6y
6 months' warranty
ON-THE-FARM
SERVICE
all the year round
Distributors for Queensland, Northern Rivers N.S.W., and Northern Territory.
BRITISH TRACTOR & IMPLEMENTS PTY. LTD.
156-156 SYDNEY ST., NEW FARM —LW TOT 1
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
of Mr. Macmillan’s
innovations has received
such a patronising, even
cynical, welcome as the new
Independent Council on Prices,
Productivity and Incomes. Of
the press comment, there was
the rude, “After three weeks of
rumbling and grumbling....
the Government has at last
brought forth three wise mice
The appointment is only a
further reflection of chronic
Government weakness and
indecision” (“The Spectator”);
the caustic, “If the Government
does not have an economic
policy no one else can provide
it” (“Financial Times”); and
the quizzical, “Some of our
most successful institutions have
started in a queer way, and it
would be foolish to write-off
the new council before it has
got to work” (“Manchester
Guardian”). Even “The Times,”
in a leading article which
applauds the choice, individu-
ally, of the members of the
team, passes the laconic
remark (the average age is 69),
“They are all rather senior.”
Other reactions, notably
“The Daily Mail’s” and “The
Economist’s,” are less severe.
Indeed, the latter journal
makes the point that the
council “is now in being,
despite trade-union opposition
to it,” and goes on to argue a
case for a “gradually changing
attitude of mind” towards that
uncompromising autocracy on
the part of union leaders with
which we are all too familiar.
It feels that the unimpeachable
integrity and impartiality of
these three distinguished men
may have a pronounced effect
upon public opinion: “In 1959
the Conservatives’ most justifi-
ably successful bogeyman might
well be the new leaders of the
T.U.C.”
So three men, a Lord o.f
Appeal, a past-president of the
Institute of Chartered Account-
ants, and an academic
economist, all of high merit and
of long distinction both in their
professional spheres and in
public affairs, will sit in Sena-
torial detachment and “keep
under review changes in prices,
productivity and the levels of
income, including wages,
salaries and profits, reporting
thereon from time to time.”
Besides the “Guardian’s”
observation (an opinion which
is shared by other commenta-
tors), there are two interesting
side-issues. The first is the com-
plete departure from the
original recommendation. This
was for a body composed of
all the sectional parties —
workers, bosses, nationalised
industries, the Treasury, etc.
One which represents no one
but itself is generally com-
mended, for the council enjoys
a disinterested approach which
is as rare as it is valuable.
The second point is that the
council’s reports will not be
made to any Minister but to
the public. Since the council
will have to depend upon
Whitehall for most of its back-
ground information, its pro-
nouncements can hardly be
more authoritative than those
of the Government’s advisers.
What, then, does Mr. Mac-
millan hope to gain? The
answer would seem to lie in the
catch-as-catch-can nature of
party politics which, because of
the envy, anger, bigotry and
distortion, turns factual presen-
tation of economic truths
into a hopeless and ill-con-
trolled farce.
Press-c onferences un-
doubtedly will be held. It is
conceivable, too, that the
council will be interviewed
before the television cameras.
The effect of fair and honest
opinions, expressed with
authority and dignity, upon a
public sick of the dogfights that
are apt to ensue when “both
sides” are represented, can only
be for the good.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Homes, Hospitals & Horses
In introducing Victoria’s
Trotting Races Bill passed
with the support of all parties
in the State Parliament the
Chief Secretary traced the
history of the sport of trotting
in Victoria and explained how
the Royal Agricultural Society
had spent nearly half-a-million
pounds on preparing its Show-
grounds for trotting-races,
apparently anticipating a boom
in the popularity of this
vehicular version of the Sport
of Kings.
Just why the R.A.S. an
institution which has played a
most valuable part in the
development of Victoria’s
resources—should have become
involved with a sport patronised
by a small and evidently
dwindling section of the com-
munity is not quite clear, but
the venture has been an un-
fortunate one. The Trotting
Control Board, which conducts
the trotting-races, is finding it
difficult to meet its obligations
to the R.A.S. This, on the
Chief Secretary’s statement, is
because of “the decline in
popularity of trotting.” And
the whole aim of the Trotting
Races Bill seems to be to
bolster up the board’s finances
at the taxpayers’ expense. 4
The board now owes about 1
£300,000. The bill reduces the
annual repayments and rental
payments made by the board
to the society. It does not only
take care of present worries ;
Clause 5 empowers the
State Treasurer “to make
advances to the board if it is
unable to meet its payments to
the society.”
Also on the statement of
the Chief Secretary, “If
the Trotting Board
encounters difficulties at any
time, the Government will be
able to provide financial
assistance by way of loan,
rather than by means of gift.”
The cynical citizen who finds
it hard to get finance for
housing, even on the gilt-edged
security that a house and land
affords, and who sees hospital
construction held up for lack
of loan funds, may well think
it strange that his legislators
should contemplate making
open-handed loans to a sport-
ing concern which, in its
present state of health, can
scarcely be called a sound risk.
If the community doesn’t like
trotting sufficiently to patronise
it and make it pay its own way,
surely the taxpayer shouldn’t
be expected to come to the
rescue. Wusslean (Vic.).
Weight’s Right
Practically every women’s
magazine you pick up these
days has a wonderful new diet-
chart guaranteed to make you
lose pounds if you faithfully
follow instructions. Each one
“To hell with a career , sport! What I'm looking
for is stoush!"
insists how appetising it is, and
if you’ll only try it out you’ll
never know what it’s like to
feel hungry. None of them
looks very inviting to me.
All the charts restrict or
forbid the intake of sugar. If
you’re not sufficiently strong-
minded you may compromise
with that coal-tar derivative,
saccharine. Yet sugar, I under-
stand from competent medical
men, is a great energiser. Per-
haps the lack of it in their
system is the cause of the list-
less manner of those willowy
females who appear too tired
to attend to us properly in
shop and office?
Perhaps it’s the nature of
some folk to put on fat unless
they almost starve themselves
—and it’s better to be plump
than hungry—but surely the
average healthy person can
keep the flesh subdued provided
he (or she) knows when to
stop eating and takes a reason-
able amount of exercise.
The diet-charts are carefully
graded for all-comers —the very
active, the moderately active
and the moderately and very
inactive. It’s doubtful whether
the first two types need charts ;
just not overeating should
keep them where they ought to
be, provided they’re healthy.
As for the moderately and very
inactive, unless they happen
to be ailing and are receiving
medical attention, all they need
to do is to cut down the eats
and stir themselves a bit. If
we want to keep slim, then we
just can’t afford to indulge in
the two old-fashioned sins of
greed and sloth.
But why worry, ladies?
There’re still lots of us who
have a weakness for curves.—
Kenyas (N.S.W.).
Drink and Crime
Lately there have been some
pretty outspoken pronounce-
ments by responsible people
and organisations on the sub-
ject of drink and crime, and in
Victoria the Howard League
for Penal Reform has pro-
posals for an alcoholism
research trust to raise funds for
a competent study of the pro-
blem of alcoholism in that
State.
It is a problem. On a
numerical basis, alcoholism con-
stitutes the State’s biggest single
penal headache. At Pentridge
jail (Vic.), there are “more
persons serving sentences for
being drunk and disorderly in
a public place than for any
other offence.” Some of these,
of course, are habitual
offenders. It is not unusual,
the Howard League reports, for
an individual to serve more
than 20 sentences in one year
for offences involving drunken-
ness—which bears out the
league’s claim that, under our
present system, no help is being
given to such persons to over-
come their besetting weakness.
Convictions for such offences
are on the increase. At the City
Court, convictions of this type
have increased fourfold over
the last two decades ; for the
State as a whole, convictions
for offences involving drunken-
ness now outnumber the total
convictions recorded for all
other offences.
Even if the moral aspect is
ignored, alcoholism is too
serious a problem to be treated
lightly. It places a tremendous
economic burden on the com-
munity, and from that aspect
alone the proposal for research
on the subject should commend
_ itself to public support.—
Doynest (Vic.).
When I said that Australian
tobacco is on a par with the
world’s best, I did not imply
that all products made of 100
per cent. Australian leaf are
comparable with the world’s
best. There are poor-quality
tobaccos produced everywhere,
Australia included.
“P.0.M.C.” holds that “pure
Australian leaf is naturally dry
and therefore too light when
cut fine for cigarettes unless
blended 7 with a moister leaf”
(B. 21/8/’57). When tobacco
has been cured on the farm and
the stem of tfie leaf finally
dried-out at 160-180°F., the
leaf is absolutely dry and
crumbles to the touch. Accord-
ing to “P.0.M.C.” it must
apparently stay this way. In
fact, ventilators of the barn
are thrown open and in a few
hours, depending on the time
of day and the amount of
moisture in the air, the leaf is
in “condition” and ready for
bulking.
The leaf, if it is of reasonable
quality, will retain this moisture
through all stages of bulking,


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
PRESSURISE
Your Domestic Water Supply
m
BATHROOMS,
KITCHENS,
GARDENS, etc., all
can be given water at
20 to 1001 b. pressure.
Also ideal for other
purposes where a pres-
surised water supply is
an advantage.
The AJAX Type A 2
outfit illustrated is
proved and com-
pletely reliable.
To install it is only
necessary to attach the
suction pipe to the
pump and plug in the
electric lead.
Components comprise the famous AJAX A 2 Self Oiling Plunger Pumps
driven by a 1 H.P. electric Motor with Thermal overloads. A 36 by
18 inch Galvanised all-welded Cylinder tested Jo lOOlbs.
Cylinder walls are 3 / 16in. with |in. end plates.
Mounted on steel base plate. Other fittings include Pressure Switch, Air
Volume control, Relief Valve, Air Snifter Valve, Check Valve, Pipe
fittings, Vee belt, etd. Capacity of unit is 420 gallons per hour. Price
£215 (nett.) F.O.R. Melbourne. Crate £2 extra. Sales Tax per cent,
if applicable).
Send for your post free copy of the Ajax Pump Catalogue.
546-566 Collins Street, Melbourne, and at Sydney,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
grading and selling, After the
leaf is sold, most manufacturers
“proctorise” it—re-dry and re-
condition it to a desired
moisture content for better
maturation and, most im-
portant, to prevent possible
mould damage from over-
conditioning by the farmer.
The maturation period, inci-
dentally, extends from two to
three years; never less than
18 months, or the resulting
smoke will blow your head off,
no matter what tobacco it is.
“P.0.M.C.” will find that the
moisture content of imported
leaf is probably the same as
this “proctorised” leaf.
Leaf of very low
trashy lugs or tips, leaves from
the bottom and top of the plant
respectively—will not retain
moisture, but in most years
this leaf does not reach the sell-
ing floor and is disregarded at
the time of grading.
“D. Ex. F.” (B. 21/8/’57)
claims that Australian pipe-
tobacco lacks all the good
qualities of the imported article.
I won’t argue over the merits
of any one brand. I may be
belaboring the point I made
earlier, but I think the bad
name with which Australian-
grown tobacco has been saddled
is due to the fact that some
manufacturers of 100 per cent,
Australian tobacco have not the
finance to buy the best leaf in
competition with the older
established firms who absorb
the cream of the crop into their
cigarettes and tobaccos.
I still insist that the leaf
grown here will produce a good
smoke for the pipe-smoker,
although not many manufac-
turers of 100 per cent. Aus-
tralian tobacco cater for him.
r—R. G. V. (Q.).
Pay and the Professions
There have been laborious
investigations, including at least
one by an overseas expert, to
discover why so many Aus-
tralian parents are not giving
their children longer schooling,
and why the numbers offering
for imiversity courses and
higher technical training are
insufficient to supply the future
demand for professional
workers.
To anyone but an expert, of
course, the reasons have been
pretty obvious. With today’s
high living costs, many parents,
even if the breadwinner has
professional status himself,
simply cannot afford to main-
tain their sons or daughters
through a four- or five-year uni-
versity course. For the average
parents, this means a long and
difficult struggle ; for the youth
concerned, it means foregoing
all. the advantages and pleasures
enjoyed by his friends in jobs,
delaying the prospect of
marriage until years after he
has graduated, and finding that,
in point of earning power, he
is for many years lagging
behind those who started work
at 17 or 18.
In spite of all the exhorta-
tions to young men to train
themselves for professional
careers, the nation in general
does not value their trained
services very highly. This is
made very clear by statistics of
graduates’ earnings, compiled
by the University of Melbourne
Appointments Board from
9541 replies to questionnaires
sent to professional men and
women.
The figures, representing
average annual income for
average professional workers,
speak for themselves: Medi-
cine, £2890; law, £2310;
dentistry, £2110; engineering,
£1980; architecture, £1810;
chemistry, £1710; physics,
£1660; accountancy, £1570 ;
agricultural science, £1560.
The replies came from both
self-employed and salaried
workers preponderantly the
latter —and it is interesting to
note that the lower-paid of the
professions are those ,in which
self-employment is rare (with
the possible exception of
accountancy).
The equivalents of these
amounts in terms of the pre-
war pound show that the pro-
fessional worker has lagged far
behind the tradesman and the
unskilled or semi-skilled worker
in getting his share of the
national prosperity. In fact,
accountants and scientists are
now earning considerably less
than their pre-war counterparts.
Lowest paid of all are the
agricultural scientists, profes-
sional men who have probably
contributed more than any
other class in the community to
our national wealth.
Is it any wonder that not
enough young men are going
in for professions, particularly
the sciences? Is it any wonder
that we are losing scientists,
year by year, to other more
enlightened countries which
are prepared to reward them
according to - their deserts? —
D.J.G. (Vic.). ,
Trade with Japan
Although the Federal
Government had little choice
as to the necessity for negotia-
ting the trade treaty with Japan,
it does deserve congratulation
for adhering to its decision in
the face of hostile opposition.
For the majority of people,
of course, the treaty will result
in a choice of a wider range of
cheaper goods, but of a
quality much higher than that
of Japanese commodities
before World War 11.
Talk about throwing Aus-
tralians out of their jobs
usually overlooks the fact that,
our ex P° rts t 0 Japan are
re uuced as a result of our
refu ! al <° a «*P« Japanese
go ,? ds '. then «■«
su * r .'" °ur. Pnmary mdustr.es
-* h ‘ ch t after all, are able
to stand on their own feet
without artificial shelter. In
any case, the protection
clamored for by some industries
clearly reveals that they are
a burden to the community.
Such industries have no more
right to impose upon con-
sumers than have coachbuilders


to demand legislative restric-
tions against motor-car manu-
facturers.
What is more important,
however, is the promotion of
better relations between Aus-
tralia and Japan. There is
much evidence to suggest that
Japan’s militaristic expansion
in the ’thirties was considerably
aggravated by trade-barriers to
her goods in overseas markets,
including our own.
Then there is the strategic
consideration that, if Japan
can’t trade with the demo-
cracies, it may be forced to turn
towards China and other
Communist countries.
The Rev. Frank Coaldrake,
an Australian missionary to
Japan, wrote to the Melbourne
“Age” while on furlough
(5/8 /’55): “The real key to the
problem of Japan is food.
Apart from the wealthy, Japan
is close to starvation. Food
had to be brought in from
other countries, but many
countries would not trade with
Japan. The Japanese did not
ask for charity, and were pre-
pared to work for what they
received.... Desperate hunger
may breed war.”
One disturbing feature is the
continuance of the bureau-
cratic control by the Depart-
ment of Trade over importing
from Japan, but the new treaty
should prove to bfc a signi-
ficant contribution to Aus-
tralian economic prosperity
“She’s spoilt me for other Women.”
and international goodwill.—
Fragmos (Vic.).
The Railways
There would be no better
means of transport than the
railways if only they were
efficient.
In Sydney lately I saw
people in the Transport Depart-
ment and State Railways to
see 'if wool could be sent by
road —perhaps it was merely
misfortune that wool railed
last year went to every wool-
stere in Sydney but the right
one. I was not only refused
road transport, but told thaf
I was likely to lose every con-
cession that primary producers
now enjoyed.
If |he railways were run
efficiently everyone would be
happy to use them, and without
compulsion. Recently chickens
sent to us on the western line
were railed south by mistake,
resulting in the chilling and
death of 18 pullets. A further
batch to replace these losses
also went astray
Is it any wonder we are look-
ing for some other means of
transport? Van (N.S.W.).
Water Conservation
An important point not men-
tioned in the survey of Aus-
tralia’s water resources (B.
JO/7/’57) is the conserving
of water which runs off houses,
barns, sheds and the like on
agi icultural properties. Little
is done in this direction,
although the quantity of water
which could be saved is con-
siderable.
Large concrete tanks could,
be built to catch the run-off,
and, with special tax conces-
sions, would not be costly.
I spent some years in the
low-rainfall areas of Eyre’s
Peninsula (S.A.), where opera-
tions of this nature have been
highly successful. C. B. M.
(N.S.W.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword Mo. 452
Across
I—American1 —American who associates me with a cricket team can
mean about eleven hundred. (7)
4 The author of “The Bab Ballads” nipped the tea novel
by Sinclair Lewis. (7)
7—Shot tea to play with an insect. (9)
9 Elgar variations in this enigma, and by no means
undersized. (5)
11— I expose it to daylight in the middle shatterer of
solidarity. (8)
12 —Has a dig with 500 goblins. (6)
15 —Roy Rene to drop off a wool-
grower like the misshapen moon
drop as one-man shows. (10)
18 — Endowed with come-hither. (4)
19 — The body prophet is taken aback.
(4) „ '
20 — Curve struck the sort of
criticism which increases the take
at the door and the door-frame.
(10)
23 — Reduce the density of a ferry
when wrecked. (6)
24 — Furniture behind a bus can be
transported. (8)
28 — Constructional toy drops no holy
city. (5)
29 — The kiwis’ more fitting reversal
for 18-across. (9)
30 — He passes on a message about an
obliging hen. (7)
31 — Neat aide. (.7)
Down
1 — A modern road-maker introduces
the mother bounder to a niggard.
(11)
2 A help to those who wish to
explore the interior. (5)
3 See, an Australian cartoonist
with Kelly acted the fool. (7)
4 Crazy pink turned up fliltermice.
(4)
5 Disputed the truth of the high-
priest of Shiloh in bed. (6)
6 Nobody wins this sleeper in a
permanent way. (3)
B—Fat redistributed to the rear. (3)
10 —King-emperor to compete with an
artist where the international set
burgeons. (7) -
13 — In an unfashionable way. (11)
14— Ham’s mashed outcome of mash-
ing. (4)
16 — Unturned centre of America and
Jolson regarding figures. (9)
17 — Well ventilated. (4)
21 — Communist’s deprecation is
taught. (7)
22 Whence Rita Hayworth obtained
some alimony in an Irish county.
„ (6 >
25 Ho w Runnymede may be
described as one with sex-appeal.
(3)
26 He packs a dog fighter. (5)
27 Just unlike a Negress. (4)
28 — Mars is singularly to spoil the
looks of one held by Monsieur
when abroad. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 451


15
A
r
a
V
cr.
&
4)
l£
*i>
»ij
mi?
... c-i:.
A
ft
TO'*
ra**
***
!*«
ARI
n?
flt.
JWt tw VftjVM' i
■
ASTI 1
Syl
IS»23!S , sffi
floL
CM
2&ro
but strangers at 50,000 miles!
. . . the reason ?
one has been run on “just any oil”
but the other has had the engine protection
only CASTROL can give.
Insist on it - by name I
“T HE MASTERPIECE IN OIL S”


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
WOOL PROMOTION
A GOOD many interesting
things were said at the
conference of the Australian
W oolgrowers’ Council at
Hobart; among them, the con-
sidered opinions of men like
Ewan Waterman on wool-
promotion deserve to be
studied in detail by all interested
in the subject— not only every
woolgrower, but everyone with
a stake in the crimpy stuff; in
fact, every Australian.
Mr. Waterman said that
wool is unlikely to be displaced
by a superior synthetic fibre,
but it could be seriously affected
by superior promotion. “In
short, commodities in this day
and age must be sold, irrespec-
tive of the excellence of their
quality.
“Primary producers of other
commodities have recently
realised that the promotion of
their goods could no longer be
neglected—perhaps it would be
better to say they have been
driven by circumstances to act.
Wool-producers realised this
20 years ago, and acted without
Government subsidy.
Veterinary authorities
strongly advise
graziers to mark
lambs in clean,
fenced-off areas of a
paddock away from
sheep yards. Under
such conditions there
is less risk than other-
wise of soil contamin-
ation by disease
germs. Another safe-
guard is the use of
hygienic Elastrator
Rubber Rings rather
than a knife which
can be a carrier of
disease germs.
“It is beyond doubt (hat their
foresight, their enterprise and
their confidence have con-
tributed to wool's sound posi-
tion today.
“Let us remember without
promotion wool was Is. a lb.
and many were apprehensive of
its future. Witii promotion,
wool is 7s. a lb. and we have
good reason to be confident of
its future. Wool - producers
have not sat back and left the
promotion of their commodity
to others. Fortunately for all
Australians, leadership has
been given to all sections of the
wool-industry throughout the
world, and has played no
small part in allaying con-
fusion and fears in many
quarters.”
Australian expenditure for
the season just concluded had
been approximately £1 million.
Our wool realised £4BO million.
Expenditure on promotion had
been less than a farthing per
lb.
Since 1937 the Dominions
had contributed £7f million--
Australia 63 per cent., New
Zealand 23 per cent., and
South Africa 15 per cent.
During this period* wool has
earned for these three countries
£5300 million—Australia £3BOO
million, New Zealand £BOO
million, and South Africa £7OO
million.
“The United States wool-
grower, with whom we have
been in partnership through the
Wool Bureau Inc. since 1949,
is now contributing the
equivalent of 275. Australian
per bale for promotion in
U.S.A. He supplies less than
30 per cent, of his own domestic
requirements, and consequently,
unlike ourselves, is not
interested in export, but he is
close to the effects of intensive
promotional activity, and he
does know what promotion has
done in recent years for the
poultry- and fruit-producer.
“North American annual
poultry - consumption has
risen in 22 years from 151 b. to
291 b. per head. The fruit-juice
figures are even more spec-
tacular.
“The need to keep the con-
sumer reliably informed is
becoming increasingly essential
—but the cost of this is
getting higher. In an age
of changing moods and
high - pressure salesmanship,
of fast transport as well as
many means of quick communi-
cation, promotional leader-
ship and co-operation with the
makers and sellers of wool-
goods is proving good business,
“Today wool, flows smoothly
through the trade’s pipelines
from producer to consumer,
and its prospects for the future
appear to be as bright as any
other commodity can claim.
“Surely today’s wool-prices,
surely today’s wool-stocks, are
fair measuring-sticks and
answer any who still have
doubts about promotion.”
During recent years, Water-
man said, wool has experienced
the toughest competition in its
long history. Never have so
many fibres been so skilfully
presented. Honest promotion,
and the consumer’s deep-rooted
confidence in wool, were
... r ~ ’ . ,
lesponsible for wool s continued
popularity.
This popularity was most
evident in rminlnVc whore
ev.dent in countries where
wool had been unavailable for
a long time, and the' people
were forced to use synthetics.
J
For instance, Germany.
“Perhaps the latest and best
evidence of its popularity is
found in the United States,
where a trend back to wool has
been taking place. A recent
survey conducted in that
country showed a strong
preference for wool by women, -
and in no country in the world
have more thorough tests been
undertaken than those recently
conducted by the United States
Army research-officers, which
resulted in the decision, in spite
of strong pressure, to retain
all-wool uniforms for the
American Services,
“Germany has recently
announced its decision along
the same lines, undoubtedly
influenced by the experiences
on the Russian front during the
last war. Here we recall the
‘Sheepskins for Russia’ appeal
conducted in this country,
“This appreciation of the
natural fibre is not confined to
the apparel wools. Whilst it is
true to say that in the blanket
field it has suffered in recent
years, there is now strong
evidence of a public swing back.
to all-woollen blankets. ~ The
same applies to carpets. It is
noted that the Federation of
British Carpet-manufacturers,
as reported in this year’s annual
report, does not expect to see
a transformation in demand:
•. ~. 0 . •, ,
In spite of the strides that have
been made by the producers of man-
made fibres, it is beyond dispute
that w ° ol is stl P the J? est material
m use m carpeting. This emphatic
judgment will be warmly
welcomed by the wool trade and
the wool-producer. It deserves to
a ,arg^r au *ence
because the public nowadays is not
sure when it is buying a wool
car Pet.”
* * *
“The overall demand for all
fibres has been substantially
increased in recent years. Per-
centage-wise, wool has not held
its own, but we are still hard
put to meet consumer demand,
“Reviewing the general
supply and demand position, it


See how much MORE you get
for your money in Holden
In feature after feature beauty, ease of handling, comfort, performance and
economy you get more for your money in Holden. Come along in. Drive
Holden yourself see for yourself just what these features mean to your
family in value for money.
MORE room and comfort
There’s roomy comfort in Holden’s
luxurious interior even when you carry
five passengers. And the spacious luggage
compartment has ample room for all the
gear you’ll want to carry. The one-piece
curved windscreen and wrap-around rear
window give panoramic visibility.
MORE driving pleasure
The famous 21 h.p. 6 cylinder Holden
engine makes light of any country and
reduces gear changing to a minimum. And
Holden gives you a wonderful sense of
security and stability on corners, loose
gravel and rough roads.
MORE economy
Low first cost, proven operating economy,
together with an enviable reputation for
dependability, all contribute to the low cost
motoring you will experience when you
choose Holden. Also, factory-guaranteed
parts are available throughout Australia.
MORE resale value
Because of its phenomenal popularity,
Holden retains a consistently high resale
value. This high resale value protects your
investment right through the time of your
ownership, and it saves you a lot of money
when the time comes to buy again.
Don’t just look at Holden ... be the guest of yoirr Holden Dealer ... and drive it!
HOLDEN
AUSTRALIA’S OWN CAR
From £9lO plus tax
Convenient GMA C hire purchase arrangements are available.
Air Chief ” is the radio approved by GMH for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia F ??r
will be found that world wool-
production has doubled this
century. Consumption this year
is estimated to have reached
the highest point in history.
“Viewed long-term, it seems
certain that all we can produce
.will be needed.
“Statistically speaking, at the
moment, the position appears
to be that world production is up
3 per cent, and world consump-
tion 5 per cent, to 8 per cent,
(according to various sources).
Strong demand, short supply. It
follows, therefore, that prices
should rise. They have —this
year over 30 per cent.
“Our sheep continue to earn
50 per cent, of Australia’s over-
seas revenue, provide 30 per
cent, of the world’s wool-
supply, 40 per cent, of the
world’s wool-apparel require-
ments and 50 per cent, of the
wool entering world trade.
Australia’s economic well-being
is as dependent upon wool
today as it was during the 19th
century. Every drop of a penny
per lb. means a loss in
national revenue of £6 million
—a fact every Australian
should appreciate.”
Among other figures, Mr.
Waterman gave the following,
showing how Australian pro-
duction has moved this
century: —-
Bales.
1906 .. 1,000,000
1919 2,000,000
1939 3,000,000
1955 4,000,000
1956/57 4,880,000
“Reasons for this big
increase, in addition to the
incentive of prices and a favor-
able run of good seasons, are
too well known to require
elaboration, other than to say
that the present position has
been aided by the producer
working in close concert with
the scientist and the engineer.”
Waterman said it did not
follow that increased produc-
tion would necessarily mean
increased income: under some
conditions it could lead to
decreased net income. The
greater the production the
greater the commodity could
need the stimulus of promotion.
They should work in double-
harness.
“Motor-cars and household-
refrigeration production are
examples worth noting. Could
they afford to drop
promotion?
“Good prices have been the
order during a sustained period
of increasing production.
Remefnber also this has been in
the face of intense synthetic-
fibre competition.
“In our own ranks we have
those who have been influenced
by the extremely clever
propaganda of our competitors.
We have also had our pessi-
mists and others with an axe
to grind, but we have pro-
gressed, in spite of prophecies
of doom, in spite of attempts to
relegate wool to a blending
fibre, in spite of the fears of
some manufacturers, and of
many who thought wool-pro-
ducers had reached a point
where they would be unable to
increase or even maintain
supply, with the inevitable
result that wool would price
itself off the backs of
consumers.”
* * *
“It is interesting to recall that
this year was to have seen,
according to the estimates
made in 1945, the final disposal
of the war-time accumulation
of the world’s wool of nearly
11-million bales, 7-million bales
of which was Australian,
It is now history that
it was disposed of in less
than half the time. As current
production has been insufficient
to meet demand during the past
year, the gap has been filled by
drawing upon limited unsold
stocks in South American
countries, the disposal of part
of the British war-stockpile, the
further liquidation of the tail-
en<f °f the United States com-
modity corporation stocks, as
vvell as further drawings upon
manufacturers’ stocks, which
are approximately half of what
was considered necessary pre-
war -
“ Yes, the wool-industry is


THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
111
FRIENDLY COMFORT
in the
HEART of the CITY!
On the comer of Bent and Young
Streets, only minutes from the
theatres, shops and night-clubs of
Sydney's “West End,” The Hotel
Metropole offers quiet friendly com-
fort that has made it the country-
man’s “home from home” in
Sydney. Australia’s largest and
friendliest hotel offers superb
services:
* Over 400 rooms, all with hot and
cold water and telephones, 50
with private bathrooms.
* Efficient, friendly room service.
* Five magnificently appointed
banquet rooms for social or
business functions.
* Excellent dining-room and cellar.
The Hotel Metropole
"THE COUNTRYMAN'S
HOME IN SYDNEY"
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
buoyant and there is every
indication that wool is building
op a solid foundation. Through-
out the world there is an
ever-increasing number of
users, as well as evidence
that some who had swung
over to synthetics are
now coming back to wool. This
applies particularly to what
may be termed ‘the pioneering
purchaser,’ located mainly in
the United States, who, because
of his financial ability, seems
ever ready to try anything that
is well presented and strongly
promoted.
“It cannot be denied that the
textile scientist has made, and
will continue to make, his con-
tribution to the advancement
of man. Neither can it be
ignored that, despite all the
ingenious attempts to produce
an artificial fibre endowed with
all the attributes of the natural
product, the characteristics
have never yet been compassed
in a laboratory.
“And, in fact, no scientist of
eminence has made such
claims. What has been pro-
duced, however, has been
promoted to the fullest by
every modern media at the
disposal of some of the best
brains available. What is being
done in this direction is well
known and needs no
elaboration.
“To assure wool’s future we
must improve upon is
being done. This calls for a
more realistic assessment of the
value of promotion. Is it not
a sound business approach to
look upon it as a form of insur-
ance? Let us strengthen what
we have built.. Let us make
certain of being able to com-
mand and hold the best men
for the task and afford the best
media for our campaigns.
“Let us not be out-promoted
for want of proper support.”
Phasey-bean
“Myall”: A native legume,
phasey-bean (Phaseolus lathy-
roides), is interesting graziers
on the Darling Downs (Q.).
A nitrogen-collecting plant, it
is usually grown in mixed
pastures, principally with
Rhodes and green-panic. Once
they acquire a taste for it, stock \
eat it readily and do well on it.
A hardy summer annual, it is
deep-rooted and will stand wet
and dry conditions better than
most other legumes. The seed
is small —about the size of that
of sub.-clover —and is sown at
a rate of 2-31 b. per acre alone,
or when sown with grasses.
Spring and summer sowing is
recommended.
Provided it is well drained,
any class of land, including
fairly acid soils and clay loams,
will suit. The growing of the
plant for seed has not yet been
undertaken on a large scale, so
seed is scarce and dear.
Plastic "Tile" Drains
Rubble- and box-drains, tile-
drains, mole-drains and now
plastic-lined channels —this is
the sequence of development
in underground-drainage over
the years. Engineers of the
U.S. Department of Agricul-
ture, Cornell University, and
a major machinery-manufac-
turer have high hopes that the
latest idea will have wide
application wherever under-
ground-drainage is needed.
Research only began in late
1956, but already it has been
proved" that plastic-lined drains
can be easily laid.
The research - engineers
unroll a ribbon of slit-edged
plastic into the soil behind a
mole-drainer. The plastic
forms into a U-shaped protec-
tive liner as it feeds into the
ground and should, keep the
mole-channel open indefinitely,
The plastic is flexible, but
tough, and won’t rot, and is
supplied in 3000 ft. to 4000 ft.
reels. It is ,015 in. thick and
is slotted every 2in. with stress-
relief holes punched at these
intervals. Ihe width of the
ribbon, of course, depends on
the size of the mole-plug used
and the desired “tile” diameter.
The scientists think that the
idea will work just about any-
where that regular sub-surface
drainage does.
For sandy soils they hope
eventually to shape the plastic
ribbon into a complete circle,
then fix the edges together by
some interlocking - punching
system to form a pipe as it goes
into the ground.
The main problem so far
has been laying the plastic to
grade, but the engineers are
working on an attachment that
puts in a gradual slope, much
the same as a tiling-machine
does.
Up to date most of the trials
have been with drains about
the size of 3in. agricultural
tiles, but it is thought that
larger drains could be laid, and
manufacturers are producing
suitable strips.
In the preliminary tests the
drains have been put down at
20in. . depths, using a 48-
drawbar-horsepower crawler-
tractor. It is planned to try
them as much as 40in. deep,
but depth-control and working
at such depths are still
unknowns, and it is expected
that a larger tractor will be
needed.
It is hoped that, as well as
for drainage, the technique will
work in sub-irrigation—for
this the pipe-shaped lining
would be needed.
Companies interested in the
United States include many
major plastic producers, such
as the Bakelite and Du Pont
concerns, while makers of
aluminium and other flexible
metal-ribbon are also watching
results.
The Caterpillar Tractor
Company and others have been
working with the agricultural
engineers in developing the
machine to put the ribbon
down.
Everyone agrees that the
technique has many possibili-
ties, even though in its very
early stage.
To quote one of the U.S.
Department of Agriculture
scientists: “It needs further
testing, but right now flexible
ribbon looks like one of the
best ideas we’ve seen in
drainage for a long time.”
J. E. Slee.
Value of Silage
“J.A.W.”: Agreed that
there’s a place for silage on
the farm (“K.G.5.,” B. 7/8/’57),
I would place it well under-
ground and leave it there until
a real drought came along.
Mechanised making of silage
has only recently become
possible, and even now further
work is needed to make silage
as attractive to handle as hay.
“K.G.S.” speaks of the forage-
harvester, and doubtless this
method is cheap up to the pit;
but what of the time and labor-
involved in feeding out large
quantities?
Silage having a high protein-
content is of little value
when only a proportion of
the stock will eat it, as my
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(5/9/’57)
Queensland should have good rains in the north-west,
Gulf country and north coast during October, with moderate
to good falls on the balance of the coast. Patchy elsewhere
in the State.
In N. S. Wales there should be moderate rain on the
coast, tablelands, north-west slopes and plains, and south-
west slopes and Riverina during October; patchy elsewhere.
Best rains may occur on the northern tablelands and north-
west slopes and plains.
Reasonably good general rains are indicated for Vic-
toria during October, with the best falls in East Gippsland.
Moderate rains, mainly below normal, are likely in the
agricultural areas of S.A. during October, with light patchy
falls in the Murray Valley, west coast and interior.
Rainfall should vary from moderate to good in the
south-west and south coast of W.A. during October; light
and patchy elsewhere in the State.
LENNOX WALKER.


RUSSIAN COMFREY
Symphytum Peregrinum
Giant Webster Strain
A fodder upon which all stock and
poultry thrive. Get the right strain
tor protein (33.68% protein has been
obtained) and bulk (124 tons an acre
in Kenya and 99 in New Zealand in
1957). Send stamped, addressed
envelope for price list and my intro-
ductory booklet giving my farm experi-
ments with this crop to pioneer grower.
W. F. SAVAGE,
Green Farm, Red Hill South,
Victoria.'
‘ Phenovis' Brand of Phenothiazine
All present & correct sir!
//
Photograph Courtesy Australian National Publicity Association
m
m
.
m
/
/
V*
J
* V
thanks to
‘PHENOVIS
Trade Mark
Use ‘Phenovis’ Superfine Drench —and
keep ALL your sheep in healthy top
wool-producing condition!
9 ‘Phenovis’ effectively controls the
major intestinal parasites in sheep.
• Sheep drenched with ‘Phenovis’ eat
more grass . . . produce up to
25% more wool!
® Ewes drenched with ‘Phenovis’ give up to 60% more milk . • a
produce fatter lambs.
Order your Supply of the Superfine Quality
‘PHENOVIS’
The effective remedy for WORMS IN SHEEP
K DEPENDABLE AJIIQ TJOIL P RJjjCT
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
1534.PHE.65X.4089
experience this year illustrates.
In-lamb ewes were fed for six
weeks with silage and hay, but
while 95 per cent, or more ate
the hay only 50-60 per cent,
would tackle the silage—which
was of very good quality. When
there is a danger of twin-lamb
sickness, the percentage that
can be brought on to high-
protein feed quickly is all-
important.
Costs vary according to a
number of factors, including
plant available, manpower,
family labor, management,
availability of contractors, etc.,
so it is up to the individual
farmer to work out this
problem for himself and not
pay undue attention to costs
compiled by some implement-
manufacturers.
I wouldn’t say that all fodder
conserved on the farm is cheap,
but the conservation of surplus
feed by either method must
result in cheap fodder-conserva-
tion.
We made silage very success-
fully using the usual haymaking
machinery, the pasture being
baled and pitted. We had
trouble when the pit was
opened because of difficulty in
completely removing earth
cover and the weight of the
bales. This could have been
overcome by making half-
bales, using a plastic cover-
ing, and providing easy access
at one end of the pit for an
elevator to load on to the truck.
A warning: most bale-loaders
will not handle half-sized bales,
so modifications are necessary.
There is room for all methods
of conservation—silage, hay,
grain and fodder-crops—and
silage made with either forage-
harvester-baler or buckrake is
a good investment.
Let “K.G.S.” chop out
pickled pasture to his heart’s
delight ; for my part give me
hay, grain and fodder crops,
with several very large pits of
silage as a last resort.
Noogoora Burr
“Myall”: The Queensland
Government has become so
concerned with the rapid spread
of Noogoora-burr that it has
required local authorities to
frame by-laws compelling all
landholders to eradicate it on
their properties. The local
authorities are also required to
keep all roads within their
boundaries, and land held by
them, free from the pest.
The plant has been declared
a noxious weed throughout the
State, as it has caused huge
losses to sheepmen and,
to a lesser degree, to grain-
growers.
During the floods of last
year swollen streams deposited
seeds of the pest over vast areas
of the country, and the position
»“ is r ming
almost hopeless. Hormone
sprays are proving effective and,
supplied by the Lands Depart-
ment to landholders at factory
cost, they are delivered freight-
paid to his nearest railway-
station.
Two scientific officers were
lately sent overseas to study
and collect insects to combat
the burr. In both India and
! b e U.S. the effect of various
{ nsect s on the plant will be
ln vestigated and, if considered
k t under cl( £ e observatjon .
They wiu fce bred they
multiply sufficiently to be
released in quantities in the
infested areas. Care will be
taken to see that the introduc-
tions will not attack other plants
and themselves become pests.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The engagement of Judith Woodward,
our new Governor’s only daughter, was
announced at a late-afternoon party at
Government House on Saturday, which
also celebrated Judith’s 22nd birthday.
Her is Miles Little, the only son
of Dr. Norman Little, of Point Piper,
and of Mrs. H. F. Pennefather, of
Darling Point. Miles is a fifth-year
medical student; Judith (who is wearing
a three-stone diamond ring) is an honors-
graduate in Arts. For the party Judith
chose a cocktail-dress of stiffened sea-
island cotton in an all-over blue floral
design.
ft ft ft
Gala theatre-nights raised money for
charity during the week. The first was
a preview of the Phillip-street Theatre’s
new revue, “Cross Section” (in which
the line “They’re going to have a galah
evening” brought down the house). The
dressing both on stage (designed by
Frank Mitchell) and in the audience was
glamorous, and the evening had rather
the air of a private party, as everyone
seemed to know everyone else. In aid
of the Black and White Ball, the sum
raised was over £5OO. President Mrs.
Marcel Dekyvere wore a chic black dress
with a floating panel at the back. A
pretty mother-and-daughter couple were
Mrs. Evelyn Crossing, with a glitter-
embroidered neckline to her black dress,
and Mrs. Colin Ryrie, with glitter-
embroidered neckline to her red dress.
Mrs. John Atwill, in pale-blue lace
mounted on satin, was in charge of the
programme-selling. It was interesting
to see, by the way, that when it was
announced at interval that programmes
were still available, people bought them
up three and four at a time at ss. each.
V V V
The opening night of “Tosca” was
given in aid of the Opera House Appeal,
and Lord Mayor Jensen announced that
£6OO was raised. The house was packed,
and there was a good opportunity to
catch up on the gossip during the
intervals, which were 35 minutes long.
This made one realise that the proposed
restaurant in the new Opera House will
probably do good business. One could
get one’s dinner in the first interval, one’s
supper in the second and one’s breakfast
after the show. Noted the Norman
Jenkyns en famille at this opening, Mrs.
Jenkyn in jet-embroidered black looking
nearly as young as her daughters Valerie
and Helen.
ft ft ft
Tc hand is a note about a very
wonderful little old lady of Tamworth,
Mrs. Ida Cohen, M.8.E., who celebrated
her 90 th birthday on August 27 at a huge
given by all the women’s organisa-
tions of that town. Mrs. Cohen was
born in Tam worth in 1867 and has lived
there all her life with the exception of
18 months of her schooldays spent in
Sydney. Her father was Tamworth’s
first Mayor, and she was brought up in
a tradition of service. On “the happiest
day of her life” she married her “dear
husband” and had three sons. She has
spent her days in working for the good
of every section of the community and
continues to do so.
ft ft ft
Appropriately youthful in atmosphere,
since it celebrated a first birthday, was
the reception given by the High Commis-
sioner for Malaya, Mr. Gunn Lay Teik,
in honor of Malaya having won the
status of a “free, independent and
sovereign nation among the nations of
the world.” Of the 800 people who
assembled at the Trocadero for the
occasion more than half were young
Malayan students and their friends, who
held a dance after the reception and
were dressed in colorful, picturesque
clothes —Indian, Malayan and Chinese.
Guests-of-honor were Lord Mayor
Jensen and Mrs. Jensen; there was a
speech of welcome by the student-host,
Mr. Hahya Ismail, and a Chinese song
on the occasion of Independence was
sung by Miss Florence Pong. Altogether
a happy and unusual party.
Author Kylie Tennant has set her hand
to a new type of composition in her
musical-play “Nex’ Town,” which is to
have its premiere at the Independent
Theatre on October 23. There is a
distinguished line-up of people associated
with this presentation: Haidee Seldon
is the producer, and the music is being
written by Kurt Herweg and Hal
Saunders, with some of the lyrics by
Dorothy Dodd.
“Under the Lilac Tree” was the pretty
name given to the wine-tasting party
organised by Miss Margaret Gillespie
in aid of the Elizabethan Theatre Ball.
And there really was a little lilac-tree in
the Leo Buring Cellars, where the party
was held. It grew in a tiny garden, with
a fountain and two white fantail-pigeons,
that Miss Gillespie had arranged there.
The guests sat around wine-barrels which
served as tables, tasted and commented
on the wines, and then heard a learned
discourse on each by Mr. Rudi Komon.
This was followed by a buffet-tea and
conversation, and was all very pleasant
and out of the ordinary.
ft ft ft
The Forget-me-not Ball is scheduled
for next Friday at Mark Foy’s Empress
Ballroom. Organised by the combined
younger sets assisting the N.S.W. Society
for Crippled Children, it is the first of
its kind and should be particularly beauti-
ful, as the younger sets are most
enthusiastic and hope to make this an
annual affair.
☆ ☆ ft
Advice on how to stay young, quoted
from Anthony West’s novel Heritage:
“Never allow yourself to be awakened —-
always sleep on till you are ready to wake
yourself.”
ft ft ft
Soiree is a word that is coming back
into fashion. On Friday September 27
the Naughty Nineties Committee is
organising a “My Fair Lady Soiree,” at
which the decor will be based on the
musical play from Bernard Shaw’s “Pyg-
malion” and a parade of spring model-
hats will be a special feature, as the hats
(donated by 20 Sydney milliners) will be
given as prizes to holders of lucky tickets.
The proceeds of this evening will go to
the Old People’s Welfare Council and
to the Food for Babies Fund.
On the following evening a “September
Soiree” will be held at the Point Piper
home of Mrs. Sam Lands in aid of the
Royal N.S.W. Institution for Deaf and
Blind Children.
ft ft ft
Noteworthy name for a new committee:
The Benevolent Stork. It has been
formed to raise money for the Benevolent
Society’s hospitals for women and
children. Mrs. Frank Alldritt (Double
Bay) is president, Mrs. McCall-Power
vice-president, and Mrs. Dan Carroll
honorary-secretary.
ft ft ft
Highlight of the swimsuit news is the
“covered-up” look this season—the
principal example of which is a skirtless
black-nylon suit with a scoop-neckline
and long sleeves. Its price is £lO 10s., and
a few have already been sold. The rest
of the suits seem to be more modest in
exemplifying the covered-up look—i.e.,
they are not quite so modest. Broad
shoulder-straps are new and the two-
piece is definitely in the minority. At


Farmers’, where the long-sleeved suit was
sighted, the price-range was from
495. 1 Id. (for a pretty shirred-cotton
suit) to £l9 19s. for an exclusive white-
faille model trimmed with crystal bead-
ing in a fleur-de-lis design, obviously a
“don’t-go-near-the-water” model.
MELBOURNE
In honor of Air Force Week the Air
Officer commanding Point Cook, Air-
Commodore W. H. Garing, and officers
of the station entertained more than 200
guests at a cocktail-party in the mess.
Assisting the host and hostess was the
president of the mess-committee, Wing-
Commander W. Coombes, and Mrs.
Coombes. Mrs. Garing chose a leaf-
green shot-taffeta frock highlighted with
a shawl-collar and skirt of unpressed
pleats. Mrs. Coombes wore a black-and-
gold printed taffeta frock with a black
velvet curvette. Among the guests were
Air-Vice-Marshal and Mrs. H. G. Acton,
Assistant U.S. Air Attache Lieut.-Col.
Collas Harris and his wife, iieut.-Col.
Monahan (also of the U.S. Air Force) and
Mrs. Monahan, and Group-Captain and
Mrs. D. W. Kingwell.
☆ ir ☆
The Battle of Britain Ball, held at the
St. Kilda Palaise de Danse and organised
by the Air Force Women’s Association
(proceeds are donated to the Memorial
Patriotic Education Fund), drew 600
dancers. Decorations featured the
R.A.A.F. rondel in red, white and blue
with a kangaroo in the centre. Round the
pillars of the dance-floor were flags and
balloons, and on the official tables were
kangaroos surrounded by red, white
and blue flowers.
President of the association, Mrs.
E. C. Wackett (wearing a frock of shrimp-
pink tulle), with her husband, Air-Vice-
Marshal E. C. Wackett, received the
official guests. These included the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress, Cr. F. W.
Thomas and Mrs. Thomas (the latter
wearing a wide-skirted gown of almond-
green guipure-lace which had a swath-
ing of the material at the waist); Mrs. F.
Scherger, wife of Chief of Air Staff Air-
Marshal Scherger (her graceful gown and
stole were of poinsettia-red chiffon); Air-
Marshal Sir George Jones and Lady
Jones (she attractive in a black chiffon
gown); Lady McCauley (her short frock
of navy chiffon, made with a full ruched
skirt); Lady Wackett (wearing a grey
chiffon skirt and a bodice heavily
encrusted in moonstones and sequins);
Air-Vice-Marshal and Mrs. F. Bladin;
Air-Vice-Marshal and Mrs. H. G. Acton ;
and Group-Captain P. R. Beare (R.A.F.)
and Mrs. Beare.
* ☆ ☆
Barbara, daughter of Mrs. J. C. Fitchett,
of Toorak, and the late Mr. Fitchett, has
announced her engagement to Michael
Hall Best, son of Sir John and Lady Hall
Best, of Sydney. She is wearing a
diamond-and-sapphire ring.
Driving to Melbourne across the
Nullarbor Plains from Perth was a recent
experience of Mrs. Shirley Kerr. Shirley,
who is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J.
Stanes, of Perth, has two teenage
daughters, Carolyn and Jen, who will
shortly come from the West to begin
business careers in Melbourne. Photo
by John Warlow.
The twin daughters of Mr. Justice
Dunphy and Mrs. Dunphy, Patricia and
Jeanette, celebrated their 21st birthdays
at a dance at Stanmark, East St. Kilda.
Both girls wore short frocks cut on slim
Princess lines. Patricia’s was of slate-
blue fine corded-silk with motifs of pink
and gold on the fitted bodice, which was
held with shoestring straps. She wore
with it a gold watch, a present from her
fiance, Graeme Chaplin. Jeanette’s choice
was embossed silver-blue and white nylon,
the bodice cut with a heart-shaped neck-
line in front and a deep V at the back.
The young guests included school-
friends from the Star of the Sea Convent
and theatre and radio friends.
* ☆ £r
A farewell party was given at Menzies’
Hotel by retiring Japanese Consul Mr. Y.
Yamamoto and Mrs. Yamamoto at which
the new Consul, Mr. M. Nomoto, and his
wife were introduced. The hostess wore
a kimono in duck-egg blue and silver with
panels of pink embroidery in the skirt.
Her obi was in matching colors. Mrs.
Nomoto wore a kimono in deep-red silk
finished with a wide blue-and-silver
patterned obi.
Among the guests were Archbishop Dr.
J. J. Booth and Mrs. Booth, Legislative
Council President Sir Clifden and Lady
Eager, Sir John Latham, his son Major
John Latham and Mrs. Latham, Sir
Albert and Lady Coates, Lady Dunstan,
Sir John and Lady Teasdale, Capt. and
Mrs. Charles Burge and Mr. and Mrs.
L. J. Dooling. Consular representatives
included Mr. Gerald Warner (U.S.), the
Marchese and Marchesa Serafini (Italy),
Mons. and Madame Paul-Emile Cattin
(Switzerland), and Mr. and Mrs. H. I.
Fader (Thailand).
☆ ☆ *
October 7 is the date set for the
marriage in St. Paul’s Cathedral of
Margaret, daughter of Archbishop-
Administrator Dr. J. J. Booth and Mrs.
Booth, to Dr. Norman Tucker, of South
Australia. The Archbishop himself will
officiate, and will be assisted by the Rev.
Godfrey Kirscher. Margaret, whose sister
Patricia will be the only bridesmaid,
returned recently from a trip overseas ;
she bought the material for her wedding-
gown in London. Reception will be held
at No. 9 Darling Street. The bride’s
future home will be in Medindie (S.A.).
☆ ☆ ☆
Film-star Elizabeth Taylor has sent to
Mrs. Marjorie Burke the most fragile and
adorable layette for a baby. Mrs. Burke
is public-relations officer of the Oppor-
tunity Clubs, and the layette is to be
disposed of in aid of the club funds. It
will be a very lucky mother who wins
it, and even luckier will be the baby.
Shortly the layette will be on display in
a Bourke Street store ; later it will move to
the suburbs. Only a limited number of
tickets may be sold for the layette, but
Mrs. Burke hopes to make £6OO from
Elizabeth Taylor’s gift.
☆ ☆ *
Very novel was the sukiyaki-party
organised by the Japanese auxiliary to
the University’s International House and
held at the Nurses’ Memorial Centre,
St. Kilda Road, where guests were
welcomed by Japanese Consul Y. Yama-
moto and Madame Yamamoto. Japanese
hostesses cooked and served the suki-
yaki, a delicious dish containing bamboo-
shoots, mushrooms and other vegetables,
cooked in a deep-fry pan and served
with rice. Guests had their choice of
chopsticks or knives and forks. Among
the guests were Mrs. Arthur Dean (wife
of the University’s Chancellor), Dr. and
Mrs. Ringland Anderson, Mr. and Mrs.
Lindsay Plant, Mr. and Mrs. Max
Mitchell, Dr. and Mrs, Stanley Williams,
Dr. and Mrs. lan Hart (Dandenong),
Lady Boileau, Mrs. Eric Grimwade, Mrs.
Jock Frew, Mrs. K. Hobson and Mr.
and Mrs. A. V. Wilkes.
* * ☆
Three hostesses —Rosita Morell,
Wendy Burbank and Juanita Bright—
gave a dance-party at the Toorak home
of Rosita’s parents. Rosita wore a green
frock cut on Empire lines and patterned
in pink rosebuds; Wendy chose a
Princess-line cotton frock in turquoise-
blue patterned in pink rosebuds;
Juanita wore a sheath-frock of junior-blue
silk. The guests included Barbara Lane,
(her white frock sprinkled with pink
carnations), Carolyn Barrett (in mauve-
and-white candy-striped silk), Deanna
Day, Marion Pleasance, Christine Wilson,
Neville Day and Andy Holt.


was too busy doctoring that
sick woman.
That wonga - pigeon, he
cleared out. He went away,
We never saw him no more,
It was the first time in my
life I see things like that come
on to the Mission.
The Wild Cherry-tree
Told by Billy Bamboo
THIS wild cherry-tree,
good shade. I lie down
under it and go to sleep.
By and by I hear big
roaring sound: “Oh, thunder-
storm coming up. I’ll soon fix
him.”
I break a branch off this tree
and burn it. The smoke goes
straight up into the sky. Those
big foiling clouds divide. One
cloud goes one way, one cloud
goes the other way. You hear
thunder crashing, rolling away
down the sky.
This is my tree. This is our
sacred tree. It belongs to all
the blackfellows. You, too,
you’re a bit of a blackfellow;
you try it. You’ll say, “That’s
true what old Bamboo Billy
says. It’s true all right. That’s
that old Jungle King.”
Well, my tribe got shot-up.
One white man found a baby
near the camp. He took that
baby back to the station on his
horse. That baby was my
father. Another white man
was camped in a tent. A Vic-
torian tribe came up and
fought with the Wallaga Lake
tribe. They beat the Wallaga
Lake tribe. An old man and his
wife were running away along
a pad. They were carrying a
baby with them. Men with
spears were hard behind them.
Those two with the baby come
to a bend in the track. They
see a big log hollowed out by
fire. They put the baby inside
the log and run on. The Vic-
torian tribe catch them up and
spear them, kill them.
The white man was riding
his horse along. He hears a
baby . . . crying in the bush.
He looks all about. Comes to
that big log and listens. He
kneels at the log and listens. He
goes to one end and sees the
pale feet of the baby sticking
out of the log. He takes the
child and rears it up and gives
it hiS name.
Over in the sandhills are the
bones of that tribe who were
killed.
Me? I’m Billy Bamboo.
Anyone will tell you, the buck-
jump rider, the bare-knuckle
fighter. We used to stand toe-
to-toe. We’d go down to the
creek and wash the blood off
our faces and come back and
into it again. I was a flash
young feller, jodhpurs, riding-
boots and shirt and hat.
No, I can’t see as well as I
used to.
Me? I’ve heard those Hairy-
men, those Doolagarls in the
mountains, round our camp.
Well, I have to use this stick,
now.
Yes, you should have seen
those old people. They could
have \ told you all about
Bugeens, and Gooins, and
Doolagarls. All those old
people are gone.
They’re all ghosts, spirits in
this place.
The Wild Women
Told by Percy Mumbulla
OLD Jimmy Clemens was
a clever old-man. He
was travelling once to
Moss Vale. At Fitzroy
as he was walking along
he track, he heard some wild
omen. He heard them laugh-
g. There was a tribe of them.
r e heard them talking.
Once when old Jimmy was in
s hut he heard one of them
,! d women* coming. He heard
calling to him from outside
'he darkness. She was throw-
hftle pebbles on to the roof,
beard her laughing through
ong hair.
She knew his name and called
out to him, “You there,
jimmy? j immy Jim m y , you
there?”
c , ’ , ,
, , Pushed the door open
Lmmy pulled his toma-
hawk out from behind his neck
ar, d slung it at her. The toma-
hawk hit the door-post and
stuck in there. Old Jimmy
chased her away into the bush.
But he never caught her.
That wild woman was too
clever. She could turn into a
mist or a wallaby-doe. Old
Jimmy chased and chased her
but she got away from him into
some caves in the mountains.
Old Jimmy was clever, too.
He could feel when them wild
women were near. Them
women want you for a
husband. They take you away
into the bush and the
mountains for- six months.
They make you stupid. You
can’t hear anything.
There’s always six of them.
They come down to Currum-
been Creek near Huskisson.
You can hear them coming.
You hear them laughing and
talking. They know your name
and call out to you. You
mustn’t answer. If you answer,
you go stupid; you go.
You know nothing until you
get to their cave. You can’t get
away. They feed you. Might
be you have a bit of honey,
possum, goanna or mushroom.
When they let you go they
say, “After three weeks I come
for you.”
You can’t hide. Wherever
you go they find you.
You say, “I’ll get away some-
where.”
But it’s no good. You can’t
get away from those wild
women.
Old Jimmy Clemens was a
clever old-man. He was the
only one who could break their
power.
The Maker of Boomerangs
Told by Malcolm Rivers
ADAM Cooper was the
cleverest blackfellow
God put on this earth.
He used to make
boomerangs. He would call up
a boy to go with him.
He’d get his stone tomahawk
and cut out a circle in the
ground. In this circle he’d put
stringybark. Then he’d throw
his boomerang and make it
"Did you eat my wallaby ?”
spin in the air in one place
over the bark. Up out of that
stringybark smoke would start
to rise. That stringybark
would come alight. That’s how
this blackfellow could make
fire.
He’d send that boomerang
away. It would go far away
and fall on the ground. He
would make that boomerang
roll. He’d clap his hands and
the boomerang would travel
back to him along the ground.
He’d make a good fire and
let it burn down to glowing
coals. Then he’d corroboree
on the coals and there
wouldn’t be a mark to show
on his feet.
He had a white stone. He
had it planted. He wouldn’t
tell anyone where he kept it
hidden. He used to sing this
stone in the language. He
would sing this stone and
make it rain, and rain heavy.
Adam Cooper’s tribe used
to make nets out of rushes.
They would stretch the nets
across a big creek to stop the
ducks coming down. Then


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Sul scription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to——
NAME ..
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign .... £3/6/«
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.i Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
that so, Dan? Yes, Bodfish,
George has got that sinkin’
feelin’ in his innards as is doo
to bein’ in love”
Lightning winks from George
all round to let the company
know that he was not to be
thrown into a state of modest
embarrassment at Uncle Dan’s
scandalmongering, but was in
the joke too.
“Yes, Bodfish, a terror for
the girls, is George. You
surprise me, Dan. And it would
surprise you, Bodfish, if you
seen that man at work among
the wimmen. He’s one of these
here Don Jewans, is George,
The wimmen ain’t safe from
him. And George ain’t safe
from the wimmen. Mark my
words, Bodfish, one o’ them
will be gettin’ a strangleholt on
him one o’ these days and
leadin’ him to the halter before
he knows what’s happenin’ to
him.”
But Uncle Dan got off his
finest bon-mot about the
pudding-basin, over which Aunt
Purdie was fussing because
there was only enough steak-
and-kidney for two helpings all
round, which was due to
pudding-basins being too small,
Said Uncle Dan, cocking an
eye round the table to warn it
that something pretty good
was coming: “You can’t get a
bigger puddin’-basin nor that
without a handle to it.”
It was rich, a ribald reference
to a utensil not to be mentioned
in polite society, and when an
august elder cracks a joke of
that sort with girls present,
you are in' heaven, exploding
into guffaws of “What price
puddin’-basins with handles! ”
while Uncle Dan, reposing on
a masterpiece of wit, assumes
a farceur’s innocence. “What’s
all this laughin’ goin’ on about?
Umbrellas has handles and pots
has handles. What’s all this
laughin’ over puddin’-basins
with handles?” . . .
Entertaining elders of my
nonage, how few you were to
the horde of glum adults who
surrounded it! You embodied
a profundity driven home to
us over the depressing years of
maturity: that the richest, the
rarest, approach to life and
art is by humor, and, most of
all, humor in a key of light-
hearted bawdiness. Has
Shakspeare made that revela-
tion to a dull earth in vain?
they would go up to the top
of the creek and hunt the
ducks down. They’d throw
their boomerangs whistling in
the air over the ducks to drive
them down into the nets
stretched across the creek,
Those ducks, flying low across
the water, would hit the net
and break their necks,
That’s the truth. That’s the
finish. That’s the way they
done it in the old times. I seen
it done myself.
The Runaway Lovers
Told by Percy Mumbulla
THE old people have been
watching this young
man and girl. The old
people see that these two
want each other. They say:
“Our boy and-your girl are
running after one another.”
“Yes.”
“Well, we’ll have to marry
them.”
They put them two young
people through the Bunain
ceremony. The old men give
the young man his mudgingarl,
his totems, birds or animals.
The women do the same for the
girl, give her the spirits to look
after them. The old people
tell the couple they must stop
together: “You run away
with someone else, we kill
you.”
Well, that girl runs away
with another man. That girl’s
husband tells his people. They
send three men called Doowan
after that runaway couple,
Them Doowan travel through
the air. Two men stand foot-
to-foot, the other man lies on
top of them. They fly through
the air. No matter how far
away that couple have
travelled, them Doowan will
catch them.
Them three men ask that
couple, “You going to come
back? Or shall we kill you
now?”
“We’ll come back,” that
couple say.
They go back. •
The old people say, “Well,
you have broken the rules.”
“Yes,” those two say.
All right. They give that man
a shield. Them three killers,
them Doowan, stand in a line
and throw their spears and
boomerangs to kill that man.
That man has a shield. He has
to ward off them spears and
boomerangs, if he can.
If he can stop all them spears
and boomerangs he is a free
man; they say to him, “You
can go. Don’t come back or we
will kill you.”
If that man and girl won’t
come back them three Doowan
kill them. Doowan take their
kidney-fat. They put it in a
bag and take it back and show
it to the old men of the tribe,
That’s what they used to do, the
old people at Wallaga Lake and
right down along the coast here,
The girl? They give the girl
a chance to go back to her
husband,
If she runs away again, they
kill her ; they kill her right out.
Old " Marvellous” and
the Elephant
Told by Bob Andy
WIRTH’S CIRCUS was
going across Nowra
bridge from Bomba-
derry. The biggest
elephant they had, called
Jumbo, lay down in the middle
of the bridge.
He got stubborn. They had
hooks and spikes jabbing into
him. But that elephant
wouldn’t take any notice.
One of the men saw old
George Noble, old “Mar-
vellous,” going by. He sang
out, “Hey* countryman. Come
here. You think you can get
this elephant up?”
“Yes, I can get him up all
right,” says old “Marvellous.”
He goes over to the elephant,
bends down and talks in his ear
in his own language. The
elephant gets up and follows
old “Marvellous” across the
bridge.
it was the talk of all Nowra
that an aborigine could get an
elephant up off the bridge.
This old “Marvellous” would
always say, “Ain’t that mar-
vellous?” when you were
talking to him and then laugh.
fellers would
j . J
SJ, h and old Jimmy
lrave ii ing fron 1 ;
Jervis Bay, going to Canberra
the Prince of Wales.
They camped and were drink-
, * um . % had a row and
o ,§ .. Marvello J us .. pgt3 bone-
]n o | d jimmy’s drink and
killed him. Bone-dust is the
dust of a man and woman,
poison.
Old Jimmy’s brother received
a message. He was a Bugeen, a
clever man. He travelled
through the air like a spirit and
took all Jimmy’s dogs back to
his home.
Later on he threw the
guneena, the devils’ stones, at
old “Marvellous” and killed
him in three days.


published in the course of them; he
strode Edinburgh with new assurance
after his return from the grand tour;
he did surprisingly well in the law,
winning cases and making money; and,
moving inevitably if erratically towards
marriage and maturity, felt himself, as
much as ever his temperament would
allow him, “on top of the world.” His
melancholy all but vanished; his humor
was at its brightest.
Mostly set in Edinburgh, but with
an excursion to London and Oxford to
renew acquaintance with Di*. John-
son, the volume has been brilliantly
edited to make a connected and enter-
taining story from Boswell’s initial
passion for the gardener’s daughter to
his extremely sensible marriage in the
end to his cousin Margaret Mont-
gomerie. There are journals and diaries
to cover most of it; and the gaps have
been most expertly filled with letters.
Leonard Mann's Poems
Leonard Mann in Elegiac and Other
Poems (Cheshire) is experimenting
with a nubbly, stubbly Anglo-Saxon
kind of verse which might have its
origin in the Norse Edda, in the Oxford
carols, in Skelton, in Donne or in the
modem revival of such techniques
begun by Gerard Manley Hopkins and
carried on by Auden and his followers.
Largely discounting the unstressed
syllables and based on the firm beat of
stresses, it is as good a way of writing
verse as any other and for certain
purposes, when you want a hammer-
stroke for vigor, it can be excellent.
Mann also claims the contemporary
freedom of all kinds of off-rhymes,
including the tricky off-beat rhyme,
which similarly derive their authority
from the oldest English practice. Here,
for instance, is part of his lovely litany
for “All Creatures”: —
The fate-loaded hours,
All the deaf and dumb
Trees, grasses and flowers
Whose total sense is numb
Save in adoring
The divinity in the sun
Who is the one
Lord of their desiring:
You, our near or far kin
In life or substance, come ;
Come with us, enter in
All to the Kingdom.
O dreamed espousal,
Spirit and dust made one,
The world to be begun
New, paradisal.
But it cannot be said, full of strength
though his best effects are, that Mann
always handles these perilous
devices like an expert. His hammer-
stroke, instead of hitting the nail on
the head, too often lands on his thumb;
which is painful. Many of his off-
rhymes, instead of creating new
harmonies of sound, are merely slip-
shod; much of his verse is just plain
clumsy, even banal:—
To the orators they answered
“gammon”;
In the churches they would not bow
before Mammon.
For the felicities mingled with the
blunders, for the enterprise (marred by
some sentimentality) with which he
tackles such awkward contemporary
themes as that of a workman falling
from a girder and the murder of an
s.p. bookie and, especially, for his
sincere and far-reaching thought as he
ponders on war, wattles, Rembrandt,
rail-accidents, a kangaroo seen in
childhood, Dante, fan-dancers, snakes,
the sun and the earth Apollo and
Christ—one should note, too, the
variety of his themes—he is always
worth reading.
But naturally one prefers the poems
in which the faults are least obtrusive:
“All Creatures,” some of the shorter
pieces such as “The Imitators,” and
particularly—perhaps because the more
correct and measured style is really
better suited to his capabilities; quiet
thought moving naturally in quiet verse
—“To Mv ■ wrr Her
C-^Men.”
Two French Novels
Whatever may be said about France
it remains a pleasing fact that it con-
tinues, now as in the past, to contribute
to the gaiety of the nations: The
Innocent Gunman, by Jean-Paul
Lacroix (Elek), is a contemporary
French novel, and amusing; Jules
Renard’s The Sponger (Longmans) is
the first English translation of a novel
written in the 19th century, and it is
very amusing.
“The Innocent Gunman” might read
better in the original than it does in
translation. It is very slight, and very
often it is the turn of phrase, the
untranslatable elegance and wit, that is
half the charm of such works.
Still, it remains pleasant enough. It
is about the son of a French inter-
national gangster who broke his
father’s heart by refusing to take to
crime. His father, to correct him, sends
him off in turn to each of four inter-
national gang-leaders: all of whom the
apparently guileless youth ruins. He
interferes with the underground pipe-
line system by which Li Fan Tan is
supplying opium-fumes to London’s
addicts, with the result that they all get
a blast of the vilest French tobacco.
He gets the American gangster to sit
in the home-made electric-chair, they
have manufactured for the attorney-
general; and when eventually he returns
to France he turns into a kind of
Robin Hood, reforms and marries the
Platinum Panther and ruins his father’s
crime-business.
It is all a little too light-hearted to
be convincing even as fantasy; but Li
Fan Tan’s pipeline and the home-made
electric-chair provide two notable
scenes; as also does the election of
another of the master-criminals as
mayor of Marseilles.
The Sponger, equally slight on the
surface, is one of those rare books
which, like some of Jane Austen’s,
seem almost to survive because of their
slightness—their easy polish and grace
—but which really live because of the
firmness of the underlying characterisa-
tion. . It was chosen by a jury of
distinguished French writers, including
Mauriac, Maurois and Colette, as one
of the twelve best French novels of the
19th century, and has been made into
a film.
It is about a would-be poet who
battens on to a French middle-class
family for his meal-ticket and gradu-
ally finds himself impelled, for the
honor of the poetic profession, into
attempting to seduce both Mme. Vernet
and her daughter during a family
holiday at the beach.
Nothing very much happens: the
charm lies in the vagueness of the
sponger’s passion and in such amusing
details of observation as his pride in
paying for meals and giving small su^
POSEIDON
Activity in the stables below the
horizon
where twin doors yawn
wide and six fresh horses are backed in
to a chariot, between the shafts.
Crack of dawn
is crack of whip.
Its frayed tip
flicks a cloud-flank drawing blood.
Day’s end is the chariot drawn
down to the stables in the west, that
Up the sea.
With great hinges groaning, doors
of black oak close, the bars are thrown
and the winged horses are slapped
free.
Behind those doors, shutting the livid
light away,
dolphins are harnessed and the sun
is whirled
through the blue river that bends
beneath the world.
N.Z.
W. Hart-Smith.


AL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY (S.A. Branch) Incorporated
KfNTQRE AVENUE, ADELAIDE
LIBRARIES, COLLECTORS find HISTORIANS
publications from reserved stocks dealing wit!
Anthropology and History which are now avuih
STURT, STUART, JIcKINLAY, LINDSAY, ISA
CURRENCY, LAKE EYRE
are invited to apply for the list of
k Australian Exploration, Geography,
able for purchase or exchange.
SKDOYV, CALVERT, COINAGE AND
FLOODING, ETC.
For those who read for enjoyment
SANDY WAS A SOLDIER’S BOY
David Walker
This is the story of Sandy Mcßain, the Highland boy who was rarely out of
trouble for long. This, like the author’s earlier story, GEORDIE, is a funny and
exciting book, a book to be read and thought about, and read again.
Ready
Soon
From all
Booksellers
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
AUSTRALIAN VERSE
SELECTED POEMS OF HENRY KENDALL
with introduction by T. Inglis Moore
This new selection of Kendall’s works contains eighty poems— some
not previously published in book form—including bush ballads, nature
poems, personal lyrics, narrative poems, i 7 /a / 7 j \
classical and biblical pieces and satires. I//0 (post /d .)
A vailable again :
AUSTRALIAN BUSH BALLADS
selected by Douglas Stewart and Nancy Keesing 30/- (post I/I)
FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS and . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
RIBBONS IN HER HAIR
by DOROTHY LUCIE SANDERS
Author of “ WATERFALL "
In this latest novel about the now famous Montgomery family the author
tells the story of the beautiful and tempestuous Laura, cousin of Theodora, who
is the storyteller. We meet the entire enchanting family, feel for them in their
ups and downs and are introduced to their Irish Cousin Danny who is to play
such a large part in the lovely Laura’s life.
Obtainable from all Booksellers
Retail Price in Australia 18 / 9d. (Postage extra)
HODDER AND STOUGHTON LIMITED
to beggars when he has charge of
Mme. Vernet’s purse. There are some
delightful scenes of the sea-bathing of
the period; and some surprising things
occur in a bathing-machine.
Captain and Scorer
W. H. Ferguson, in his auto-
biography as told to David R, Jack,
Mr. Cricket (Nicholas Kaye), slates the
team for Australia’s inglorious cricket-
ing in England in 1956 —“Australia’s
batsmen proved themselves utterly
unworthy of the high honor bestowed
upon them by their country the
tourists’ spin-bowling was just a joke
... .the tour-party contained nearly as
many passengers as a Bank Holiday
excursion-train from Victoria to
Brighton.” But the captain of the side,
lan Johnson, in Cricket at the Cross-
roads (Cassell), holds that “our batting
was strong, very strong—in favorable
conditions,” but that “in ten Test-
innings we batted eight times on bad
wickets.”
W. H. Ferguson is better known to
the cricket world as Fergie, scorer,
baggage-man and general factotum to
teams from every cricketing country
except Pakistan, going with them to
every cricketing country but the West
Indies. His first trip was with Joe
Darling’s 1905 Australians in England,
and his last was with the 1953-54 N.Z.
team in South Africa; in between he
had 40 other tours.
Fergie has thus seen a mighty lot of
cricket, and all the greatest cricketers,
in the past 50 years (he duly picks his
World XI —with Monty Noble, who
gave him his start in his unusual career,
as captain). His personal dealings with
the various captains and other players
off the field, together with the most
remarkable things he has seen on the
field, make in all a readable book.
Johnson’s book necessarily covers a
more limited period, but, after he gets
off the 1956 Tests, he is interesting
enough, on his own career and on
varied aspects of the game. His book
suffers from a flat, monotonous style,
with too much “You see,” “I must
confess,” and the like. At only one
point, at the start of the chapter on
Ray Lindwall, does he write with
force.
Fergie errs in many spellings (Toshak
for Toshack, Noblett for Noblet, wrong
initials for South African skipper-
’keeper “Jock” Cameron) —unusual for
one who should have been so exact.
Johnson gets two or three important
Test-scores wrong. Bradman made
234, not 232, in the second 1946-47
Test in Sydney, and Neil Harvey’s
fighting knock in the second 1954-55
Test was 92 not-out, not 96 not-out.
Reviewed Briefly
Everywhere I Roam: Ben Lucien
Burmari (Longmans). Trying to escape
the strain of modern life, looking for
“old-fashioned people living like old
times,” Captain (christened thus) Asa
takes his grown-up family in a horse-
drawn trailer through the Southern
States of America. His journey takes
him into mining towns, revivalist meet-
ings, marathon dances, political cam-
paigns and show-business, but nowhere
can he escape from the ruthlessness of
modern life. By the author of “Steam-
boat Round the Bend,” which became
Will Rogers’s most successful film, this
book has a refreshing, quiet-paced
charm.
* * * *
Shadow of the Moon: M. M. Kaye
(Longmans). An epic type of love-
story after the style of “Gone With the
Wind” and set in India at the time of
the Mutiny. Obviously a great deal of
research has contributed to the
authenticity of the historical events, but
the romance appears stereotyped, its
heroine, the beautiful Winter de
Ballesteros, never really coming to life.
The author handles the large company
of characters well and carries the story
along competently for 650 pages.


If you
really
: &» r :
%
m
m
care for
your car
always
use
Just like people, car engines respond to
kindness. Try it and see. Give your
car the blended, balanced, cushioning
lubrication of ENERGOL. Then sit
back, relax and wait for your reward—
easy starting, smooth running and a
firm refusal by your engine to cause
you undue expense or trouble. A
planned programme of ENERGOL
lubrication will keep you and your
car on the best of terms —particularly
on resale value.
ENERGOL
A complete range of ENERGOL
automotive oils, including
ENERGOL Visco-Static motor oil,
is available where you see these
pumps.
SUPER
j
ENERGOL
LU B RIC AT IO N S ERYICE
Marketed by THE COMMONWEALTH Pit REFINERIES LTD, an associate of The British Petroleum Company Ltd
C 548
